{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__scott___phallic_worship.pdf","mytitle":"Phallic Worship","mylang":"de"}
PHALLIC WORSHIP
A HISTORY OF SEX AN D
SEX RITES IN RELATION TO
TH E RELIGIONS OF A LL
RACES FROM AN TIQU ITY TO
TH E PRESENT D A Y
G EO R G E R Y L E Y SC O T T
F.Ph.S.fEng.), F.Z.S.
ILLUSTRATED
PRIVATELY PRINTED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY BY
T. WERNER LAURIE LTD.
Cobham House, 24 & 26 Black Friars Lane, E.C.4
1941
Wellcome Lai/rury
for the H'storv
*
and Undt.*standing
“ . . . Why. the Christians themselves understood phallism a
great deal better than this godless generation. What’s that
phrase in the marriage service? * With my body I thee
worship/ Worshipping with the body— that’s the genuine
phallism. And if you imagine it has anything to do with
the unimpassioned civilized promiscuity of our advanced
young people, you’re very much mistaken indeed.”
— Aldous Huxley in Point Counter Point
(Chatto & Windus, 19:8)
Cjesar. Forget not, in your speed, Antonius,
To touch Calphurnia: for our ciders say,
The barren, touched in this holy chase.
Shake off their sterile curse.
—Jufuis Cxsar, Act 1, Sc. ii.
( J - ) 2 . F E A
%
rftSKTED IN C k l A T M JT A IX ET
KOkYHVMBCRLAND PkC$| LIMITED
AT CATI$HEAD VFON TYNE
CORTRICHT It ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PH A LLIC
W ORSHIP
k ? ■ - - n
The sale of this book is restricted to members
of the Medical and Legal Professions, An-
thropologists, Psychologists, Sociologists, Eth­
nologists, and Students of Comparative
Religion.
BY GEORGE RYLEY SCOTT
The History of Corporal Punishment. 12s. 6d.
The Story of Baths and Bathing. 12s. 6d.
The History of Torture Throughout the Ages.
I5S
-
A History of Prostitution from Antiquity to the
Present Day. 12s. 6d.
Scott*s Encyclopedia of Sex. 21s.
[Frontispiece
TIMS
PLATK
DKPICTS
THK
ORIGIN
OF
PHAM.
1
C
WORSHIP
IN
INDIA.
Featuring
the
Androgynous
Hrahm
a,
First
M
em
l>er
of
the
Hindu
Triad
;
Vishnu,
the
'»
owl
Member;
ami
Siva,
the
Third
Member;
Personifications
respectively
ot
Creation,
Preservation
.oal
Destruction.
Reproduced
from
Gardner,
Faiths
oj
the
World
(iS^S),
PHALLIC WORSHIP
This edition consists of seven hundred and seventy-five copies
numbered and signed.
o
This is Number 6 3 1
»
INTRODUCTION
i
T he study of phallicism is the study of religion. In this
lies its importance. So true is this, it may safely be
stated that no one who neglects the study of phallic
worship can hope to secure any adequate understanding
of the origin of religion. The close interplay between
magic and religion is instanced in the part played by
such essentially sexual procedures as fertility cults, in
all primitive and savage communities.
The attempts to ignore the place of sex in religion on
the one hand, and to deny any connexion between the
two on the other, are equally childish, and, in certain
circumstances, may have catastrophic consequences.
The early Christians found this out after a vain attempt
to consolidate and perpetuate a gospel the main tenet of
which was asceticism. They discovered that sex re­
pression was a potentially greater evil than either
polygamy or monogamy, and might well prove so dis­
astrous that promiscuity even would present a more
satisfactory solution of the erotic enigma. The eunuch-
istic concepts of the Origenes, the Skoptzis, et aL,
were admittedly indicative of sexual obsessions far
more dangerous than anything which came within the
realm of normal sex expression.
Even in its purely metaphysical aspects religion is
indelibly and closely associated with sex. The con­
nexion between eroticism and the mysticism which is
v
VI INTRODUCTION
so intimate a feature of the higher and more esoteric
forms of religious feeling, is especially pronounced. So
much so indeed that the more abstract, intangible and
symbolical becomes the cult, the more likely is sexual in­
dulgence to prove the only possible outlet for what
would otherwise result in a sense of frustration.
Much of the alleged obscenity associated with phallic
worship has been, and is, due to the failure to consider
the subject in relation to the moral and mental concepts
actuating those who originated it. Almost without ex­
ception the modern critic views phallicism strictly in
relation to twentieth-century moralistic and ethical
ideals. In consequence, he promptly labels as an ex­
pression of obscenity every form which phallic worship
assumed in the past.
It is true that after the birth of Christianity, sex wor­
ship, which, in itself, had never before been consciously
associated with anything immoral, degenerated into a
frankly licentious cult. It is further true that the phallic
deities became purely hedonistic gods and goddesses,
deliberately employed by a sensual priesthood to further
the indulgence of their carnal appetites. Always have
the greatest excesses and the most reprehensible prac­
tices been committed when backed up by or given the
sanction of religion. But all this represents no dero­
gation of the original phallic cult per se. It merely
proves that the gods have always been what we have
made them. "Show me your man,” says Edmund
Buckley, " and I will show you his god.” 1
This essential and basic difference between the
ancient and modern ideas of morality and ethics has
constituted one of the major difficulties in dealing with
phallicism. It has, too, undoubtedly caused many
writers to shun or evade the subject. The opposing re-
1 Phallicism in Japan, University of Chicngo Press, 1895.
INTRODUCTION VU
actions extend further, however. They extend to dif­
ferent individuals and, especially, to different national­
ities, in our own time. This antithetic viewpoint is well
illustrated in an incident, related by Hannay, which oc­
curred during the war of 1914-18. The Prime Minister
of Italy showed one of our leading statesmen Ma model
of the complete male organ hung on a bangle on his
wrist, and said, ‘ This will make us sure of winning the
war/ ” to the disgust of the somewhat puritanical
Englishman, “ who had probably never even heard of
4phallic 9symbols before.” 1
n
In the fact that phallic worship has, for so many
generations, been looked upon as something to be hid­
den; in the fact that it received ecclesiastical condem-
nauon where there was no downright denial of its ex­
istence; in the taboo so continuously and ecumenically
imposed upon its expression; and in the feeling that any
discussion concerning it was tantamount to an admis­
sion of bawdy tastes; no doubt lie the main reasons for
the neglect which the subject has received by writers
and historians generally. In such compendiums of
learning and information as the Encyclopaedia Biblica,
the Catholic Encyclopaedia, Chambers9 Encyclopaedia,
the New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopaedia of Religious
Knowledge, and the Jewish Encyclopaedia, we find no
articles specifically devoted to phallic worship.1
2
1 J. B. Hannay, Christianity: The Sources of its Teaching and Sym­
bolism, Griffiths, London, 1913, p. 38.
2 Even the Encyclopxdia Britannica gives scant attention to this most
important feature in the evolution of religion. The eleventh edition
contains a short article of fifty«one lines on Phallicism; in the fourteenth
edition even less space is devoted to the subject— seventeen lines.
viii INTRODUCTION
The majority of those who have mentioned sex wor­
ship in passing have shown an almost eager wish to
dissociate themselves from anything which, by any
stretch of imagination, might be construed as approval,
while others have referred to the rites as being of too
obscene a nature for discussion.
Admittedly, a few have ventured upon this forbidden
ground, presenting works dealing specifically and ex­
clusively with phallicism. But even here one is often
conscious of a restrained note in the manner of treat­
ment; a restraint which is particularly observable in re­
gard to illustrations of phallic statues, amulets, effigies,
et al. Again and again one comes across references to
these ancient statues or images, w'ith confessions that
their reproduction or description is undesirable or im­
possible. In this respect, Payne Knight’s work is a
notable exception, but the rarity of the volume, and the
difficulties in die way of securing access to such copies
as exist,1 militate against its value.
The majority of the illustrations which grace such
notable contributions to phallicism as Higgins’s Anaca-
lypsis, Forlong’s Rivers of Life, and Inman’s Ancient
Faiths, are purely symbolical. Moor, in The Hindu
Pantheon, himself remarks upon this very point. He
says: “ The plates of my book may be turned and ex­
amined, over and over, and the uninformed observer
will not be aware that in several of them he has viewed
the typical representation of the generative organs or
powers of humanity.”
1 The volume is very scarce to-day, and is still surrounded by protective
screens. There is no copy in the Cambridge University Library. The
British Museum copy, which I have examined, is kept under lock and
key in the Private Case. That this scarcity and difficulty of access have
always existed is evident from the following note, relating to the Payne
Knight volume, which appears in Higgins’s Anacalypsis, published in
1836. “ This book was never sold, but only given away. A copy is kept
in the British Museum, but it is not in the catalogue.”
INTRODUCTION IX
This concentration upon the symbolic side has its
dangers and its limitations. It is likely to create false
ideas. This criticism implies no denial or disparage­
ment of the value of and the necessity for the study and
presentation of symbolism. But the true importance of
symbolic phallicism can be adequately conveyed only
when presented side by side with an exposition of primi­
tive, realistic, and natural phallicism.
The manner in which moralistic and ecclesiastical
authorities have endeavoured to suppress all references
to phallicism in religion and sociology has sufficed, as
censorship in every form does suffice, to create a picture
far removed from the actual truth. This suppression
started with the translation into English of the Bible
and it has never altogether ceased. This is not the
place to deal with the evils of censorship in its various
forms, but suffice it to say that omissions on the one
hand and exaggerations on the other, are as effective as,
and often far more effective than, a downright and pub­
licly admitted or expressed taboo.
These suppressions, omissions and taboos, which,
despite the emergence of a saner and more intelligent
reaction to sexual matters, are still in some measure ex­
istent, may account, to a certain extent, for the lack of
major modern contributions to the literature devoted
to phallic worship.
One other point which may conceivably have had
some prohibitive force is concerned with the alleged
danger to the mind of the individual who concerns him­
self with phallicism, a danger to which reference has
been made on more than one occasion. In his admir­
able little study, Phallicism in Japan, Buckley draws
attention to this factor as a possible explanation for
many of the shortcomings observable in books devoted
to the subject, thus: “ It is not too much to say that
X INTRODUCTION
all the works hitherto devoted exclusively to phallicism
arc unreliable. In fact the rule seems to be, as stated to
me by Dr. Reid of the British Museum, that as soon as
one begins to study phallicism he goes crazy.” And in
the article on “ Phallicism ” in Hastings’ Encyclopaedia
of Religion and Ethics, we read: “ The subject exercises
such fascination upon some minds as to have given
occasion to the taunt that no one who studies it remains
sane.”
in
The attempt to isolate phallicism and to treat it as
the definite and circumscribed cult of a minority of sex­
ually obsessed or perverted people deceives no one but
those hopelessly ignorant of the place of nature worship
in sociological evolution. Nor are the tactics of the
apologists deserving of any better success.
Early mentality, in initiating phallic worship, was
never in any way guilty of licentiousness or obscenity.
Apart from the fact that the concept of obscenity per
se possessed no meaning for him, the primitive man,
primarily concerned with placating or propitiating his
gods in what he conceived to be the most practical man­
ner possible, inaugurated a form of religion in keeping
with his mentality.
Because of this, in considering the origin of phal­
licism, one must ever be on one’s guard against ascrib­
ing modern knowledge to primitive thought. It is an
error which is easily made. It is just this error that his­
torians and anthropologists, in contending that the birth
of phallic worship was due to a demand for progeny,
have made again and again. A purely hedonistic con­
cept, though lacking in racial or ethical justification,
seems to me to be much nearer the truth.
INTRODUCTION XI
The androgynous creative deity was best supplicated
or propitiated by offerings concerned with the pleasures
of the flesh. In such circumstances, to the worshipper
as to the god, licentiousness was not a sin : on the con­
trary, it was a duty. Eroticism, in anything more than
automatism on the one hand or lust on the other, and
religion, are emotional concepts betraying striking
parallels and correlations. The one may easily prove to
be a safety-valve for the other.
Phallicism, even in its original crudity, implied some­
thing more than the mere worship of the male and fe­
male external genitalia, developing into a religious con­
cept which was wider, more profound, and more com­
prehensive than that connected with any specific con­
temporary faith. Indeed, I doubt if it is any exaggera­
tion to say that without its phallic fundament, which
was inseparably connected with any anthropomorphic
cosmogony, no faith would ever have developed into a
living virile religion.
George Ryley Scott.
Cambridce.
ACKNOW LEDGM ENTS
Pioneer workers in every field are worthy of the greatest
praise, and I would express my obligation to the many
writers who, in the past, have contributed towards an
elucidation of phallicism and who have added, in how­
ever modest a way, to the accumulations of phallic lore.
For the most part, however, references are extremely
scattered, and the labour and time involved in searching
for as well as in examining existent material, have been
very considerable.
In this connexion I wish, in particular, to express my
immense indebtedness to Dr. Roger Goodland’s monu­
mental work, A Bibliography of Sex Rites and Customs
(Routledge, 1931). No writer on sex in its religious,
historical or sociological aspects can afford to ignore this
invaluable and unique bibliography of 9,000 items. The
complete and comprehensive nature of Dr. Goodland’s
work, more particularly in relation to the wealth of an­
notations given, has been the means of saving me much
time in searching the “ stacks ” in the Cambridge Uni­
versity Library, and has led me to examine material
which otherwise I might conceivably have overlooked.
I would also express my thanks to Mr. P. Johnston-
Saint of the Wellcome Historical Medical Museum for
kindly permitting me to examine and to reproduce
photographs of phallic objects in the Museum; to the
Director of the British Museum for permission to re­
produce a number of plates from Payne Knight's
Worship of Priapus and the anonymous Musee de
xiii
XIV ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Naples; to the Syndics of the Cambridge University
Library for permitting the reproduction of illustrations
from a number of volumes in their collections; and to
the officials of both the British Museum and the Cam­
bridge University Library for the help and courtesy
extended to me in connexion with my researches.
For permission to reproduce the paragraph from
Point Counter Point, appearing on page iv, I am in­
debted to the author, Mr. Aldous Iiuxley, and the pub­
lishers, Messrs. Chatto & Windus.
George Ryley Scott.
CONTENTS
In tro d u ctio n
p a r t i
TH E NATURE AN D EVOLUTION OF
PH ALLIC WORSHIP
CHAP.
I. T he C reation of the Gods
The genesis of reason— Reality versus illusion—The
birth of the gods.
II. Sun, M oon and N ature W orship
The sun and moon gods of antiquity— The sky in the
role of a deity—The animation of symbols— Animal
deities and their phallic significance—The vegetable gods.
III. T he Birth of Phallicism
The importance of reproduction— The androgynous
origin of mankind—The ambivalence of the gods—The
worship of sex.
IV. T he Phallic Factor in Sexual Promiscuity .
The virgin and the gods—The cult of Mylitta—The rise
of sacred harlotry— Male prostitution— The sacred har­
lots of India.
V. T he C onnexion Between Serpent-Worship
and Phallicism .
Origin and extent of serpent-worship— The serpent as
the god of evil— The serpent as an erotic symbol.
VI. T he R elation of W itchcraft to Phallicism .
The worship of the Devil— Phallic rites associated with
the Witches’ Sabbath— Phallicism and the evil eye—
Incubi and succubi.
PACB
V
3
* 3
40
58
7 9
93
xv
XVI CONTENTS
PART II
THE DIFFUSION OF PHALLIC WORSHIP
AND TH E CHARACTER OF ITS CEREMONIES
AN D SYMBOLISM
CH A r. F A C t
VII. Phallicism in the Religions of Savage and
Primitive Races . . . . - 1 * 7
The savage as a phallic worshipper— The place of initi­
atory rites in phallicism.
VIII. PiiALMCiSM in the Bible . . 133
Yahwch and contemporary phallic gods— Phallic sym­
bolism in the Old Testament—The phallic oath.
IX. Phallicism in A ncient G reece and Rome 151
The worship of Priapus—The phallic gods of the Greeks
and Romans—The phallic processions and festivals.
X. Phallicism in Egypt. Persla, A ssyria, etc. . 171
The legend of Osiris— The spreading of phallic worship
—The sacred hull of the ancients.
XI. T he Phallic G ods of India . 183
The religion of the Hindus—The origin of Hindu
phallicism—Lingam versus Yoni—The nature of the
Hindu phallic emblems— The rites of Hindu phallicism
— Modem Hindu phallic worship.
XII. Phallicism in C hina and Japan . . . 2 2 1
Yang and Yin— The festival of agriculture and the
worship of the bull—The phallic cult of Japan.
XIII. Phallic W orship in G reat Britain, F rance
AND OTHER PA RTS O F E U R O P E . . 232
The phallic stones of Britain— Phallic worship in
Ireland—The worship of Priapus in Continental Europe.
XIV. Phallicism in R elation to Christianity . 255
The phallic feasts of the early Christians— The cross as
a phallic symbol—Other phallic Christian symbols— The
emergence of obscenity.
CONTENTS XVII
A G lossary of the Principal Gods and
G oddesses M entioned in the Preceding
C hapters .
Bibliography .
Index . . . . . .
PACK
269
280
289
«
For kindly permitting the reproduction of illustrations,
acknowledgments are gratefully given by the author and pub*
lisher to the British Museum (plates facing pages ioo, 174, 188,
202, 252, and, illustrations in the text, on pages 101, 155, 240
and 242); to the Wellcome Historical Medical Museum (plates
facing pages 10, 108, 122 and 232); and to the University
Library, Cambridge (plates facing pages 28, 56, 70, 82, 104,
152, 154, 158, 160, 176, 198, 222, 238, 264, and, illustrations in
the text, on pages 35, 88, 90, 104, 106, 149, 167, 173 and 237).
LIST OF PLATES
I. THE TRIMURTI OR HINDU TRINITY: DEPICTING THE
oricin of phallic worship in India Frontispiece
Fdtiag page
II. CARVED JADE PHALLIC STONE . . . IO
III. PHALUC SICN FOR WARDINC OFF EVIL . . . 2 8
SATYR AND COAT . . . . . . 2 8
IV . ,VARIOUS PRIAPI . . . . 56
V. VENUS, ANDROGYNOUS CODDESS OF LOVE . 70
VI. SIX FIGURES ILLUSTRATIVE OF SYMBOLIC SERPENT-
WORSHIP . . . . 8 2
VII. THE WITCHES' SABBATH . . . . IOO
VIII. SYMBOLS ILLUSTRATING PHALLIC WORSHIP IN ANCIENT
ECYPT . . 1 0 4
SACRIFICE TO PRIAPUS . . . . . IO4
IX . ROMAN AND EGYPTIAN PHALLI . . . . 1 0 8
X . ANCIENT PERUVIAN PHALUC POTS . . . . 1 2 2
X I. CEREMONIAL WORSHIP OF PRIAPUS . . . 152
XU . TYPICAL ANCIENT ROMAN PHALLIC CANDELABRA . 15 4
ANCIENT PHALLIC FRUIT OR CAKE STAND . . . 1 5 4
XIII. SACRIFICE TO BACCHUS . . • >58
ITHYPHALLIC IMAGE . . . . . 158
XIV . THE GREEK PHALUC CODDESS, APHRODITE . l6 o
X V . THE SISTRUM . . . . - 1 7 4
XV I. RINGS BEARING UNCAM-YONI SYMBOLS . . . 176
ECYPTIAN PHALUC WORSHIP . . • . If6
XV II. SYMBOUCAL WORSHIP OF THE UNCAM AND YONI IN
COMBINATION . . . . l 88
xix
XX LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Fating page
XVIII. MiEXADE WORSHIPPING THE COD PAN IN THE FORM OF
HERMES • • • - I Q S
CEREMONIAL PHALLIC WORSHIP IN INDIA . . 1 9 3
X IX . FRAGMENT OF SCULPTURE FOUND ON THE ISLAND OF
ELEPIIANTA, NEAR BOMBAY . . . . 2 0 2
X X . ORIENTAL PHALLIC IDOL OFQUANWON OR KWAI-YIN .2 2 2
XX I. ROMAN PHALLIC LAMP . . . . . 2 3 2
XXII. VARIOUS PHALLIC STONES . . . . 238
“ JACK OF HILTON " . . . . 238
XXIII. THE WORSHIP OF PRIAPUS AT ISERXIA IN1780 . . 252
XXIV. PHALLOID VASE . . . . . . 264
PHALLIC FIGURE . . . . . . 264
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT
PACE
THE TEMPTATION OF ADAM . . . . - 3 5
ARDANARI-ISWARA . . . . . . 8 3
“ TEMPTATION ” . . . . . . 9<>
HINDU YONI WITH SERPENT . . . . 9 1
PRIAPUS AS A DEMON AT THE WITCHES* SABBATH . 101
LEADEN PHALLIC EMBLEMS . . . . IO4
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ABRAXAS . . . . . I0 6
OSIRIS TAKING THE PHALLIC OATH . . . • >49
PRIAPIC DEMON . . . . . . . 15 5
1TIIYPHALU . . . . . . 1 6 7
EGYPTIAN WORSHIP OF THE PHALLUS . . . 173
COMBINED LINCAM-YONI . . . . . 2 0 0
PHALLIC TOWER AT CLONDALKIN, IRELAND . . - 237
ANCIENT IRISH SHELAH-NA-CICS (SERIES i) . . 24O
MORE ANCIENT IRISH SHELAH-NA-CICS (SERIES n ) . . 242
P A R T 1
T H E N A T U R E A N D E V O L U T IO N
O F P H A L L IC W O RSH IP
A
I
I
%
■
C H A P T E R I
THE CREATION OF THE GODS
i
The Genesis of Reason
To get at the very root of religion we must lay bare the
first notions or thoughts that actuated mankind. We
must go far beyond the beginnings of civilization. We
must deal with the cerebration of primitive and savage
man. We must consider in some detail the origin and
evolution of reason and knowledge apart from and in
addition to the origin of instinct.
There is a widely diffused notion that among all
specimens of animal creation man alone possesses any
glimmering of reason. This notion is largely fallacious.
It is one of those ideas, based upon superficial know­
ledge, which appeal to the sophisticated modern public.
Its initial emergence and its popularity are alike due
to the confounding of what is hereditary with what is
acquired, and to tne perversive confusion between in­
stinct and knowledge.
While everything which is instinctive is of necessity
automatic, the reverse is not by any means universally
true; a fact which has led to endless confusion of
thought. For instance, while the appetite for food, and
the inclination to sleep are automatic and instinctive,
the use of a knife and fork and the habit of sleeping
on a bedstead, though they arc to-day automatic and
3
4 PHALLIC WORSHIP
habitual, arc not instinctive. Moreover, the act which
is instinctive at one time or in a certain stage of de­
velopment may not be instinctive at another time or
in another stage. The sex act, although instinctive in
animals and in primitive human races, is not instinctive
in civilized man.
Such motivation as is instinctive in any one race or
in any one age, approaches ecumenity. Its universality
largely makes, differentiates, or conditions the species,
race or tribe in question. Anything beyond what is in­
stinctive results from the reaction of the individual
to sensory stimuli. The savage docs not instinctively
avoid plunging his hand into a boiling spring, but the
initial experience of the pain associated with the action
leads him to avoid its repetition. Precisely the same
thing applies in civilized life. The child, by experi­
encing the pain associated with burning, learns to avoid
future exposure to fire; or it has to be sufficiently im­
pressed with the reality of such pain to refrain from
actually experiencing it.
The origin and development of language led to the
differentiation of man from all other forms of animal
life. Without this form of thought-communication
and preservation man would never have achieved any
higher degree of cerebration than the anthropoid ape.
Language, and, especially, literature, render possible
the development of mentality and knowledge far be­
yond any common norm such as alone is possible
where instinct primarily or solely holds sway. The
association of ideas which represents reason and intelli­
gence is capable of immense development.
It is here that environment steps in, and, to a very
considerable degree, overcomes or inhibits heredity.
For although environment cannot create, it can decide
which out of a collection of rival and possibly antagon­
THE CREATION OF THE GODS 5
istic instincts on the one hand, and capacities for de­
velopment on the other, shall dominate all other
associative, rival and opposing ideas and impulses. In
our own civilization, it decides such points as a man’s
choice of a wife, of the particular brand of religion he
professes, of his politics. It is in this way, for instance,
that the non-possession of an extra suit of clothing may
result in the birth of a socialist or a communist; that the
gaining of a comfortable sinecure may induce the nega­
tion of the very principles which have led to its realiza­
tion.
At the same time, the development of language has
not proved an unmixed blessing. It has, to a very big
extent, defeated its own implied, if not expressed, object.
It has contributed, more perhaps than has any other
single factor, to the confounding of instinct with know­
ledge; to the lack of differentiation between what is
hereditary and what is acquired. The spread of popular
education in conjunction with the coming of the
machine age and its concomitants, have together sufficed
to create a rubber-stamped mentality. The popular
Press, the cinema and the radio have resulted in the
emergence of a public, the component members of
which, with exceptions so rare as to be negligible, think
alike and function alike. The net result is that the
mentality of this twentieth century of civilization, in
the overpowering main, is equivalent, in its universality
of outlook, to the instincts of primitive man.
n
Reality versus Illusion
An outstanding feature of the savage’s mentality is
the lack of any sense of discrimination between sub­
jective and objective stimuli. He shares this peculiar
6 PIIALLIC WORSHIP
characteristic with the ape, the elephant, the ostrich
and the canary. In civilized society most individuals
are partially afflicted in this same way: the extent of
their liability to deception varying in accordance with
the development of their knowledge. Thus, at the one
extreme are the child and the idiot, who vary little from
the savage or the animal; at the other extreme is the
abstract thinker whose powers of association are so
highly developed that, as regards certain stimuli at any
rate, there is no possibility of deception or confusion.
In other words, the extent to which the individual is the
victim of purely sensory stimuli is entirely dependent
upon his own mentality, or the degree to which the
result of other people's mentality is available to and can
be assimilated by him. The difference between the
average civilized man's reaction to ordinary stimuli or
impressions, and the primitive man's reaction to those
same stimuli or impressions, is conditioned by the fact
that the development of language has placed at the
disposal of the civilized product the associated reaction
of other individuals of greater mentality. This differ­
ence is as important as it is profound and far-reaching.
It means that the actual mental limitations of the
average man are disguised. It is not so much that he is
mentally superior to the savage, as that his parasitical
opportunities lead to the assumption of such superiority.
To realize how true this is one has only to consider the
reaction of the average man to some entirely new, or
difficult, or abstruse stimulus. In any such circum­
stances he is entirely at a loss: he is no better fitted
mentally to cope with it than is the savage.
Imagine for a moment that mankind, together with
the printed and artistic lore of all the ages, were sud­
denly destroyed. Any new race of anthropoids which
might arise would be in precisely the same position as
THE CREATION OF THE CODS 7
the primitive races of mankind were in the days of
Adam and Eve, and little better than the animals of
to-day. There would be the same difficulty in differ­
entiating between the real and the visionary; a difficulty
which, in modern civilization, owing to the effects of
contact between civilized and savage races, is only
visible in all its significance in the case of animals and
babies. The dream-state and the waking-state are
equally real to both; the shadow and the substance,
initially, are indistinguishable.
Every new concept is dependent upon the extent of
existent correlated and associative knowledge. Isolated,
as in the case of victims of amentia, a new sensation is
barren. Without old impressions to agree with it or to
differ from it the new sensation must necessarily be
valueless. It is the subjective idea projected objectively
that enables one person to see in the new-born babe a
likeness to its father, another individual to see a likeness
to its mother, a third to its uncle, a fourth to its grand­
father. All of which is elementary and partial sensory
deception. But it is only another step, and at that an
allied step, to complete hallucination. That every sub­
jective impression is coloured by the percipient’s own
personality is natural: it is due to the recurrent
animism that pervades all rudimentary conscious per­
ception. In this subjective distortion of true vision lies
the real root of every form of worship, every type of
religion, every pseudo-scientific concept.*
* m
The Birth of the Gods
In the response of the animal to sensory stimuli is the
true origin of myth. This response, so far as is con-
8 PHALLIC WORSHIP
cerned every animal possessing any form of cerebration,
consists in the personification of the inanimate objects
and the forces of nature which come within the range
of perception. “ Thus every form, every object, every
external phenomenon,” says Vignoli, “ becomes vivified
and animated by the intrinsic consciousness and
personal psychical faculty of the animal itself/’1
It is due to this fact that the animal gives to
every observable object or force qualities and powers
analogous to its own, just as primitive man projects into
every unknown phenomenon some sort of anthropo­
morphism or theriomorphism. The contention of
Xenophanes that animals of all kinds possess the power
to create gods in likeness of themselves, was not so
ridiculous as has been supposed.
The personification of every inanimate object, as well
as every force of nature, leads to the allocation to such
objects and forces of powers of good and evil. It leads
further to the division of these objects and forces into
two great classes, one of which calls forth adoration and
the other fear. Here is the fundament of every kind
of worship.
There is nothing so terrifying or so awe-inspiring as
the unknown. The more mysterious the phenomenon,
the more feared on the one hand, or the more respected
on the other. This truism survives even in these
modern ultra-sophisticated days.
Basically the reaction of the animal and the reaction
of man are precisely similar. The only difference is
that man, by virtue of his greater capacity for cerebral
action, is capable of extending and elaborating this
basic personification. It may be stated that, in its nas­
cency at any rate, worship (the first stage in the elabora-
1 Tito Vignoli. Myth and Science, Kcgan Pawl, 1898. Fourth edition,
P- 53*
THE CREATION OF THE GODS 9
tion of a system of religion) exists in the mind of the
animal exactly as in the mind of man. Within the
limitations necessarily imposed by varying possibilities
of reaction to sensory stimuli, and the lack of any
schematic form of association and expression of ideas,
such as language provides in man,1 there is no funda­
mental differentiation between the worship of the
animal and that of man.
The assignment of animistic powers to every object
or force was a preliminary step to the creation of a mis­
cellany of gods. In certain savage tribes of infantile
mentality the number of such gods is illimitable: each
separate stone, tree, river or mountain being considered
to be the abode of a god. Thus the Iroquois Indians
created a separate god for every individual tree. A
development and an extension of this belief was the
classification of objects of a like nature with one god
controlling the whole collection, as the god of trees, the
god of rivers, et aL
The clement of mystery associated with sleep, dark­
ness, and death led to the belief in a spiritual existence,
which, in turn, enormously extended the basic feature
of worship and had much to do with the genesis of
religion. It was inevitable that sleep and death should
be confounded. It was inevitable, too, that the coming
of darkness should be thought to indicate the death of
the world, while the advent of dawn signified the re­
birth of that world.
In the consciousness of primitive man arose the idea
that the spirit or soul departed from the body when
sleep overcame it, the awakening of life signifying the
1As a result of a long series of experiments, Professor Yerkes has
demonstrated that chimpanzees, although they have no actual system
of movements and sounds which could rank as a specific language, can
undoubtedly be taught certain rudimentary and basic points which are
common features in all languages.
10 PHALLIC WORSHIP
return of the soul to the body. Death itself was looked
upon as an instance where the spirit absented itself for
a longer or an indefinite period, and the conviction was
never relinquished that, at some future time, the spirit
would return: a notion elaborated and extended in
almost every form of religion and still existent as a
cardinal feature of Christianity and other relatively
modern faiths.
The activities of the subconscious mind during the
dream-state did much to consolidate the idea of a separ­
ate spiritual existence and the notion of immortality.
The idea of every man, animal, or object having a
double existence became universal. The observance of
shadows, of reflections in pools and other mirroring
surfaces, and of echoes, in addition to dreams, initiated
and syncretized the belief. The shadow, image, or
spirit of the body was considered to be as susceptible
to injury on the one hand, and as capable of exerting
power on the other, as was the body itself. Thus the
worship of images and statues in the form of the
original. We shall see later how important a part this
played in the emergence and development of phallicism.
Having conceived the notion of a mysterious world
governed or influenced by invisible spirits, the primitive
mind began to classify them roughly under two heads:
friendly and hostile, or, in other words, good and evil.
It was inevitable that some such classification should
come about. The most powerful force governing man­
kind is the desire for self-preservation, which implies
the wish to avoid death as long as possible, with its
corollary, the power to enjoy another existence after
death. In primitive and savage tribes, man’s whole life
consisted of a struggle against enemies seeking his life,
and against disease. Injury and death were always
near. It was, of course, easy to understand how injury
Pl.ATK II
By courtesy oj The ll'cHcome Historical Medical Museum.]
CAKVKI) JADIC PH AM .1C STOXK.
In the Collection of The Wellcome Historical Medical Museum, London.
[b'ace page 10.
\
4
or death could result from the attacks of enemies,
whether these enemies were human beings, animals, or
mysterious hostile forces.
We have seen how the primitive mind projects a
spirit into everything with which it comes into contact,
into everything that is mysterious and unknown. The
anthropomorphism and the theriomorphism which, in
time, displaced elementary animism, led to an elabora­
tion of the personification of objects. Instead of these
inanimate objects being thought to be possessed of
power and movement in some indefinite sense, they
were given human or animal attributes. The ancient
Peruvians, according to Arriaga, worshipped “ very
large stones, saying they were once men.” 1 Grant
Allen gives other instances of this belief culled from
various sources. The Iroquois Indians, for instance,
looked upon stones as living men. The American Re­
port of the Bureau of Ethnology for 1880 recounts
various stories taken from Indian folk-lore illustrating
the metamorphosis of men into stones.2 Picdrahita also
affirms that “ the Laches worshipped every stone as a
god, as they said that they had all been men.”3
In this personification and worship of forces, of
objects, of animals, of deceased humans, lay the
nasceny of religion. Personification, in itself, does not
constitute religion. There must be something more.
The realization of this need lays bare at one and the
same time the desirability of a definition of religion
and the difficulty inherent in providing such a defini­
tion. The tendency, in these modern days, is to con­
fuse religion with a system of ethics or morality. Such
a tendency, besides leading to inaccuracy, causes much
1 The Attis of Caius Valerius Catullus, translated, with dissertations,
bv Grant Allen. 1892.
>Ibid.
* Ibid.
THE CREATION OF THE GODS I I
12 PHALUC WORSHIP
confusion of thought. Nor does religion necessarily
imply anthropomorphism, for to accept this implication
would be to deny the existence of religion to certain
primitive races.
What religion does imply is the existence of some
power or powers governing the whole universe, includ­
ing man himself, possessing volition, omnipotence and
omnipresence, and capable of being influenced by man’s
acts, sacrifices, adoration and supplication. The per­
sonification may be anthropomorphic or thcriomorpnic.
With advancing civilization in place of personification
there may be some form of pantheism or of pure meta­
physic. Implicit in the idea of reverence and worship
of this power (monotheism) or powers (polytheism) is
the idea of a creative force, superior to both man and
animals.
The means whereby the gods could reveal or express
their powers were necessarily limited and co-ordinated
by man’s mentality. Because of this, the history and
development of religion was conditioned by the
ameliorative and progressive stages of this revelation,
commencing with animism and ultimately embracing
a form of metaphysics which is scarcely different from
the most esoteric form of mysticism. And above and
beyond all, permeating and shaping every form of
sentient and unified religious belief, is the fundamental
conscious or unconscious assumption of the existence
of a cosmogony similarly explainable within the limits
of man’s mentality.
C H A P T E R II
SUN, MOON AN D NATURE WORSHIP
i
The Sun and Moon Gods of Antiquity
T here is nothing to marvel at in the fear with which
the unseen and mysterious forces of nature gripped the
mind of primitive man. Lightning, thunder, wind, the
sun, the moon and the stars, darkness and daylight,
were naturally and inevitably personified. The alloca­
tion to each force, power, or object, of a spirit, anthro­
pomorphic or otherwise, preceded the creation of any
concept in which the forces of nature were accepted and
envisioned as virile living entities, irrespective of
whether or not they happened to be present and visible.
In other words, memory and emotion came into play.
The spirit, residing in or forming the sun, the moon,
or the sky, was at all times and in all circumstances, a
potential source of good or evil, of creation and destruc­
tion.
It was but a step from the personification of an object
or force to the deification of that same object or force.
Thus the moon, the sun, the stars, the heavens, became
deities. All were recognized either as the residences
of gods or as actual living beings themselves, capable of
communicating life and death to other creatures. Thus,
too, in time they were given names of famous or notori-
<3
14 PHALLIC WORSHIP
ous imaginary personages connected with the myth­
ology of each country, race or tribe.
Tnc Chaldeans worshipped the seven planets. These
seven planets were the " Seven Great Gods ” of the
ancients, and constituted a polytheism, the component
members of which varied in importance, with the moon
occupying the premier position. This worship of the
planets is exemplified in the mythological tales of the
poets: the fable of Mars and Venus, of Ceres and
Proserpine, et al.
To tne moon and the sun were joined Saturn, Jupiter,
Mars, Venus, and Mercury. The control of the universe
was shared by these seven deities. We perceive some
remains of this hypothesis in the names given to the
days of the week, in the English, French, and Dutch
tongues, “ for they name by one of the seven planets
that day on which it is believed to have a particular
influence.” 1 There is evidence that the polytheism of
primitive races was almost universal immediately before
the victorious emergence of the tribal god Yahweh.
Abraham apparently was well aware of the existence of
polytheism, having lived at Ur, where a moon-god
reigned supreme.
The moon, with its power to supply light during the
hours of blackness, was conceded to be of far more
importance, and to possess greater powers, than the sun,
which was not credited with the responsibility of supply­
ing the light of day. The moon was usually worshipped
in conjunction with the night-sky, as the sun was wor­
shipped in conjunction with the day-sky.
There would therefore appear to be strong evidence
in support of the hypothesis that the moon was wor­
shipped long before the sun, in most nations of anti­
quity. It certainly preceded the worship of Yahweh by
1 Balthazar Bckkcr, The World Bewitched, London, 1695.
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP *5
the Israelites, there being plain indications in Jeremiah
that, as the “ queen of heaven,” sacrifices were made to
the moon. In the Encyclopaedia Biblica (col. 3355) we
read:
“ The religious observance of the new moon with
festal rejoicings and sacrifices belongs originally to
a lunar cult; but, as in many other cases, this
festival and its rites were taken up into the religion
of Yahweh— the national religion absorbing the
nature religion.”
The fact that in most lands the moon was originally
a female deity has led many historians to dispute the
superiority of the moon over the sun in ancient myth­
ology. In putting forth this argument they overlook
one important and significant factor: the existence of
a matriarchate preceding the domination of woman by
man. That such a condition was perfectly natural will
be realized when it is remembered there was no recog­
nition of the part played by the male in fecundation.
The peculiar practices of men, when worshipping lunar
goddesses, in adopting feminine attire, or castrating
themselves,1 seem to provide additional evidence that
the male’s part in generation was not recognized at that
time, and that moon-worship and the matriarchate were
coincidental.
“ This phenomenon, the priority of the lunar to
the solar worship,” points out Goldzhicr, “ is asser­
ted also by the adherents of a theory of the history
of civilization, usually termed the Gynxcocratic,
which was formed and worked out by the Swiss
savant Bachofen in a book entitled The Gynse-
» See Robert Briffault, The Mothers, Allen & Unwin, <927. Vol. III.
p. 213.
16 PHALLIC WORSHIP
cocracy of Antiquity. To the adherents of this
theory, who suppose the lordship of man to have
been preceded by a period in which the female sex
bore rule, the lunar worship is closely allied to the
importance of woman, while the solar worship is
connected with the rule of man.” 1
In some cases the moon was worshipped contempor­
aneously with the sun. The moon was deified under
many names, among which are Astartc, Asherah,
Cybele, Diana, Isis, Hckate, Mani, Artemis, Alilat,
Lenanah, Ishtar, Juno, Lucina. The ancient Egyptians
worshipped the moon as “ Mother of the World,” con­
tending that she sowed and scattered into the air the
prolific principles with which she had been impregnated
by the sun. These principles, in addition to the light
by which she was illumed, were supposed to emanate
from the fountain of life and energy, and in conse­
quence were conceived to partake of the nature of the
being from which they were derived. For this reason,
to the moon as well as to the sun, were attributed the
active as well as the passive powers of generation, which
were both, in the language of the scholastics, essentially
the same, though formally different.2
Ashtoreth, the goddess of the Phoenicians and Zid-
onians, was apparently a personification of the moon,
and associated with the worship of Baal. The feast of
Hercate, held once a month, was dedicated to the god­
dess. There are several allusions to this moon-worship
in the Old Testament. Apparently sacrifices were
offered the deity. Thus we read: “ The children gather
wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women
1 Mythology among the Hebrews and its Historical Development,
London, 1877, p. 76.
- R. Payne Knight, A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus. London.
1786.
knead their dough, to make cakes to the queen of
heaven,1 and to pour out drink-offerings unto other
gods, that they may provoke me to anger ” (Jeremiah
vii. i8).1
2 There are, too, warnings against the worship
of the moon, as well as of other heavenly bodies;3
4
prac­
tices which the Israelites seem to have indulged in when­
ever opportunity offered and contrary to all the promul­
gations of their tribal god.
Plutarch refers to the belief, held by certain persons,
that Isis was a moon-goddess, the black habit she affec­
ted signifying her eclipses and disappearances, while
the horned statues represented the crescent. The belief
in the influence of the moon over the lives of men and
women was prominent for centuries and persists to this
day.
The moon and the earth were closely associated in
primitive thought, so much so that every moon-goddess
was at the same time an earth-goddess.1 When the part
played by the female in reproduction came to be
realized in some dim way, the earth was similarly asso­
ciated with woman. The moon and likewise the earth
were feminine. The very methods by which the earth
was fertilized were thought to apply to woman.5 Thus,
says Briffault, “ in Australia and in South Africa women
lie in a shower of rain when they desire to conceive/*
while in other primitive races it is thought that “ the
first men arose out of the earth.”6
Not universally, however, was the moon looked upon
as a female deity. The Lithuanians, the Syrians, and
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 17
1 The moon was referred to as “ queen of heaven ” and sometimes
simply as “ the queen.”
2See also Jeremiah xliv. 17->9-
5 Sec Deuteronomy iv. 19 and xvii. 3.
4R. Briffault, The Mothers, Vol. III. p. 60.
1 Ibid., p. 56.
• Ibid., p. 58
i8 PHALLIC WORSHIP
the Sclavonians conceived the lunar planet as a god.
Wilkinson says:
“ The Egyptians represented their moon as a
male deity, like the German Mond and Monat, or
the Lunus of the Latins; and it is worthy of remark
that the same custom of calling it male is retained
in the East to the present day, while the sun is
considered female, as in the language of the Ger­
mans. Thoth is usually represented as a human
figure with the head of an Ibis, holding a tablet
and a pen or palm-branch in his hands; and in his
character of Lunus he has sometimes a man’s face
with the crescent of the moon upon his head, sup­
porting a disk, occasionally with the addition of
an ostrich feather; which fast appears to connect
him with Ao or with Themi.” 1
With the recognition of the masculine and feminine
elements as separate entities, the principle of duality
was universally admitted. Every force of nature, and
likewise every representative of each force, was divided
into two reciprocative but separate entities. The old
androgynous concept died the death, as also did the
matriarchate.
The rise of the patriarchate saw the overpowering of
the female goddess by the male god. The moon-god
gave place to the sun-god. The tables were turned with
a vengeance. Not only was the male granted a share
in the phenomenon of generation; he was given the
main share. The seed (semen) of the male was held to
produce the living offspring, the part played by the
woman being merely to provide the soil in which the
seed grew to fruition, as plants grew in the earth.
Aristotle and Anaxagoras both promulgated this
1 J. G. Wilkinson, Ancient Egyptians, London, 1837.
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP l9
doctrine.1 In the Bible we find David comparing the
sun to a “ bridegroom coming out of his chamber/’
while in the cosmology of Genesis it is stated that the
sun is greater than the moon.
Woman was no longer powerful and respected. She
was compelled to accept an inferior position. Again
and again does the Bible emphasize the subjection of
woman to man; the inferiority of the moon-goddess and
earth-goddess in comparison with the sun-god. Thus:
“ Wives, submit yourselves unto your husbands, as unto
the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even
as Christ is the head of the church: and he is the
Saviour of the body. Therefore as the church is subject
unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in
every thing ” (Ephesians v. 22-24); and again: “ For a
man indeed ought not to cover his head, forasmuch as
he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is
the glory of the man. For the man is not of the woman;
but the woman of the man ” (1 Cor. xi. 7-8). The earth-
goddess or mother-goddess was fertilized by the creative
god. Everything produced upon the earth owed its
origin and continued existence to the virile life-produc­
ing power of the sun.
Cruelty to woman was a concomitant of the patriarch­
ate. At the Lupercalia of Rome, solemnized in the
month of March, the girls and women, in a state of
nudity, were whipped by the men as they marched in
procession.
The darkness, depression and lowering of temperature
that followed the setting of the sun were thought to
result from the influence of other and evil forces. In
the long nights of winter it was considered that evil was
1 It wa$ not until the sixteenth century that the functions of the uterus
were dimly realized, and not until 1677 that Leeuwenhoek discovered
the spermatozoon.
20 PHALLIC WORSHIP
ascendant. Not unnaturally, therefore, the spirit resid­
ing in the sun was looked upon as the most beneficent
of all, lording it over all other rival or combative spirits.
Everywhere the sun-god was adored.
Now the great obstacle in tracing the identity of any
of the basic forms of worship lies in the vast number
of names which appear in the ancient idolatries and
mythologies, creating the illusion of a miscellany of
gods, whereas many of these different names refer to
the same deity. Thus the sun has been personified and
worshipped under as many different names as there are
nations on the surface of the earth.
Every race, while worshipping the sun under a
selected name, looked upon his worship under any other
name as idolatry. All failed to realize, in any complete
sense, that the confusion was due to the various names
of the deities, and not to any difference in the funda­
mental nature of the worship itself. Jupiter, Ammon,
Adonis, Chcmosh, Hercules, Osiris, Dionysus, Aescul­
apius, Phoebus, Bacchus, Pluto, Baal, El Belus, and half
a hundred others, all referred to the same fundamental
object which each race had personified in its own
way and in accordance with its own language and
mythology. In other words, all referred to the sun.
Thus Macrobius: “ It is one Jupiter, one Sun, one Plato,
one Dionysus.” The deification of the sun under so
many names was due to the fact that mythology
and language are co-existent and interdependent, per­
sonifying and giving to the god various attributes
indicated by observed characteristics, such as “ Pre­
server,” “ Protector,” “ Ruler,” et al.
That the Israelites were addicted to sun-worship is
indicated by the reiterated denunciation of the cult.
Moses warns his followers against the allure of sun- and
star-worship; and Ezekiel mentions seeing, in a vision,
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 21
twenty-five men of Judah worshipping the sun. Indeed,
so powerful was the incentive to worship the sun, and
so great was its rivalry to the worship of Jehovah,
that it was found necessary to take the most drastic
measures towards its suppression. Sun-worshippers
were threatened with death by stoning.
Robert Taylor (The Diegesis, 1841) says that the sun’s
death, his resurrection, his opening of the Kingdom of
Heaven to all believers, the casting of his bright light
through twelve months, or apostles, one of whom
(February, personified in Judas) lost a day, and by trans­
gression (or skipping over) "fell that he might go to his
own place” :1 his preaching "the acceptable year of the
Lord,”2 were all metaphorical personifications which
typified the natural history or circumstances observable
in the progress of the sun during the twelve months
which constitute the natural year.
Solomon built a high place for the worship of the sun
(Chemosh),3 and the kings of Judah, one after another,
practised the same form of worship, even dedicating
horses to the sun,4 until Josiah took effective measures
to put down idolatry and other abominations.
This persistent personification of the sun by all the
races and nations of antiquity is admirably exemplified
in the Biblical story of Samson. There is evidence that
Samson was a solar god. His characteristic features, the
long hair and beard, as Goldzhier demonstrates, were
common to very nearly every sun-god of the ancients.
According to Isidore of Seville, the name Samson
signifies the solar force or power, a definition which is
the same as that assigned to Hercules by Macrobius.
Higgins points out that whatever may be the precise
origin of the name, Samson belonged to the tribe of
Dan, or of that which, in the astrological system of the
1 Acts i. 25. * Luke iv. 19. * 1 Kings xi. 7. * 2 Kings xxiii. 11.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
Rabbins, was placed (casee) under Scorpio, or under the
sign with which the celestial Hercules rises.1 Samson
fell in love with a daughter of Thamnis, and the story
goes that in searching for her, he met with a lion, which,
as did Hercules, he destroyed. Then there is the
testimony of Syncellus, who says: “ In this time lived
Samson, who was called Hercules, by the Greeks.0 He
further points out that though some may maintain that
Hercules lived before Samson, the traits of resemblance
existing between them “ cannot be denied.0 Goldzhier,
too, is of opinion that the name Samson is equivalent to
Shemesh (sun). He says “ this fact gives us an undeni­
able right to maintain the solar significance of the hero,
and to see in his battles the contest of the sun against
darkness and storms.”2
Bacchus, the phallic Roman deity, was a sun-god, and
a saviour, born on December 25th of a virgin mother.
There are parallels to the story of Bacchus in the stories
of Osiris, Krishna, Buddha, Adonis, Lao Kiun, Marduk,
Horus, Camillus, Balder, Apollo, Quetzalcoatl. Hermes,
Salivahana, Amphion, Attys and Zoroaster. They were
all crucified or mutilated, symbolizing the sun's loss of
generative or creative power during the winter.
The Egyptians, the Persians, the Moabites and the
Phoenicians all worshipped the sun. So did the ancient
Hindus. So, too, did various tribes of North American
Indians. Baal, the god of the Canaanites, identical with
Yahweh, the Hebrew tribal god, was a solar deity.
Amen-ra, most powerful of the Egyptian gods, was a
sun-god. Siva, the third member of the Hindu triad,
the generator and destroyer, represented the sun.
Osiris was yet another Egyptian sun-god.
1 Godfrey Higgins, Anacalypsis, London, Vol. I, p. 337.
3 Ignaz Goldzhier, Mythology among the Hebrews, London, 1877,
p. 22.
All these representatives or personifications of the
sun were phallic deities. They were given phallic
appendages or were symbolized by phallic emblems.
Baal was worshipped in the form of a pillar. Plutarch
tells us that Osiris was universally represented on
statuary with the phallus exposed and erect.
Festivals in honour of the sun were held in all parts
of the world. They were connected with the solstices
and equinoxes. Sacrifices to the sun, as a means of
purification, were common among the Athenians.
Tzetzes describes one such as follows:
Thus was in Ancient Times Lustration made;
When any City groan’d beneath the weight
Of Famine, Plague, or worse Calamity,
Forthwith a grateful Victim is prepar’d,
Which at the holy Altar when they’ve plac’d,
They cast upon the Pile Cheese, Cakes, and Figs;
Then striking seven times its Privities
With Sca-lecks, and wild Figs, and other Fruits,
Rude Nature’s product without help of Art,
Burn it with Wood cut from unplantcd Trees.
Then tow’rds the Wind the sportive ashes cast
Upon the Sea: Thus they the dreadful Ills,
With which the City labour’d, drive away.
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 23
n
The Sky in the Role of a Deity
In the majority of mythologies the sky is personified
as “ God the Fathers Jupiter, Zeus, Jove, Dyans,
Yahweh, Vul, Odin, Ouranus, Texcatlipoca, were all
sky-gods.1 Plutarch says that the sky or heavens was
thought to function as a father and the earth as a
* In certain cases, these gods, in a previous or a future existence, were
sun-gods. Usually the sky functioned as a god either before the sun
or coincidentally and as a superior deity.
24 PHALLIC WORSHIP
mother. So, too, according to Virgil, all things, human,
animal, and vegetable, were the result of intercourse
between Jupiter (the god of the heavens) and Juno (the
earth-goddess). In Assyria, the sky-god Vul was associ­
ated with Shala or the queen; Baal, the procreator,
wedded Mylitta, the fertility goddess; in Phoenicia,
Ouranus, god of heaven,1 married Ghe, the earth-god­
dess. In the Chinese sacred books, heaven and earth
are delineated as the father and mother of everything
existent. Herodotus says of the ancient Persians that
they offered sacrifices to Jupiter who personified the
whole of the heavens or sky.
The sun-god, in the older mythologies, was the
saviour, usually of virgin birth. “ In the Vedic hymns
the sun— the Lord and Saviour, the Redeemer and
Preserver of Mankind— is frequently called 'Son of the
Sky/ ”2 Zeus, the Greek sky-god, and Vul, the Chal­
dean sky-god, emanated power as a form of atmospheric
influence exercising a generative force upon the earth-
gods. In this way, too, Nut and Seb produced the
saviour god, Osiris; Odin and Frigga produced Balder;
Yahwch and Mary produced Jesus; Jove and Semele
produced Bacchus; Seb and Isis produced Horus;
Vishnu and Dcvaki produced Krishna; Zeus and Danae
produced Perseus; et al. More and further, the sky-
god Uranus in conjunction with the earth-god Gaea
were responsible for the creation of everything, includ­
ing the god Cronus.
1 Heaven, in primitive mythology, referred not to the abode of ever­
lasting life of the Christians, but to what is now termed the sky or
atmosphere.
* T. W. Doane, Bible Myths, New York, 1882, p. 478.
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP *5
III
The Animation of Symbols
It is important to realize that to the primitive mind
there was little fundamental difference between the
deity and his representative or symbol. The major
force or spirit animating the universe, whatever precise
characterization, visualization, or form that force took,
was able to impress its own individuality, characteris­
tics and potentialities upon the human being, animal,
or object which acted as its earthly representative.
Virgil described the ethereal process as expanding
itself through the universe, and giving life and motion
to the inhabitants of earth, water, and air, by a partici­
pation of its own essence, each particle of which
returned to its native source at the dissolution of the
body which it animated. Hence, not only men, but all
animals, and even vegetables, were supposed to be im­
pregnated with some particle of the divine nature which
was infused into them, and from which their various
qualities and dispositions, as well as their powers of
propagation, were thought to be derived. These ap­
peared to be so many emanations of the divine attri­
butes, operating in different modes and degrees, accord­
ing to the nature of the beings to which they belonged.
Thus, the characteristic properties of animals and plants
were not only regarded as representations, but as actual
emanations of the divine power, consuhstantial with his
own essence. Because of this, the various symbols were
treated with greater respect and veneration than if they
had been merely conventional signs and characters. Plu­
tarch says that most of the Egyptian priests considered
the bull Apis, who was worshipped with so much
26 PHALLIC WORSHIP
ceremony, to be only an image of the spirit of Osiris.
This is supposed by Payne Knight to nave been the
real meaning of the animal worship of the Egyptians,
about which so much has been written and so little dis­
covered. Those animals or plants, in which any par­
ticular characteristic of the deity seemed to predomi­
nate, became the symbols of that specific characteristic,
and were accordingly worshipped as the images of
divine Providence, acting in that particular direction.
Like many other customs connected with both ancient
and modern worship, the practice probably continued
long after the reasons responsible for its foundation
were either wholly forgotten, or only partially pre­
served in vague traditions. This was the case in Egypt;
for, though many of the priests knew or conjectured the
origin of the worship of the bull, they were unable to
give any rational account for the crocodile, the ichneu­
mon, and the ibis, being the recipients of similar adora­
tion.1
That the images made of stone, wood, or other
material could act exactly in the same way as the god
or goddess was clearly understood and universally ac­
cepted. Indeed we find the survival of the belief
through centuries of civilization. After the consecra­
tion of the idol it became an incarnation of the deity,
as to-day the wine and bread at the Eucharist become
the blood and flesh of Christ. Chrysostum, Tertullian,
Cyprian, Lucian, and others, were in absolute agree­
ment that the making and anointing of an idol trans­
formed it into an abode of gods or devils as the case
might be. In the sacred hymns of the Egyptians,Osiris
is depicted as dwelling concealed in the interior of the
sun. In many cases where the stone or pillar is held
sacred at such times only as it is thought to be inhabited
1 R. Payne Knight, A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus, 1786.
by the god, the worshipping of such a shrine is an an­
nual procedure, as in the Fiji Islands.1
Fire was worshipped as the primary essence of the
male creative and generative or ethereal principle; while
water symbolized the female passive or terrestrial prin­
ciple in creation. The fact that, to the ancients, noth­
ing appeared to be produced without the action of fire
or water,2 or both, suggested the part played by them
in the creation of animal and vegetable life. It was a
sin to pollute a stream or river by urinating in it.
The sticks used by primitive tribes for making fire
were given a sexual interpretation; the upright hard
piece of wood being termed male, and the softer hori­
zontal piece being termed female.3 The mysterious
nature of the result and its comparison with the crea­
tion of life suggested the phallic interpretation.
Homer was of the opinion that the ocean was the
source of everything. Much the same idea is implicit
in the baptismal rites of the Christians as well as those
of other devotees. The water used in baptism was to
regenerate or re-create. The soul in this manner was
transposed from its previous mortal position to one of
immortality. Caylus presents Pan in the act of pouring
water upon the male member; that is, invigorating the
creative power by the application of the prolific element
upon which it acted. In India, it was customary to
pour sacred water from the Ganges upon the Lingam,
the symbol of Siva. St. John the Baptist says: “ I, in­
deed, baptize you in water to repentance; but he that
cometh after me, who is more powerful than I am, shall
baptize you in the Holy Spirit, and in Fire; that is, I
1 T. St. Johnston, The Islanders of the Pacific, Fisher Unwin. I-ondon.
19*1. p. 252.
* See Genesis i. 20.
* Article on “ Phallicism Min Hastings’ EncycJopxdia of Religion and
Ethics.
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP
28 PHALLIC WORSHIP
only purify and refresh the soul, by a communion with
the terrestrial principle of life; but he that cometh after
me, will regenerate and restore it, by a communion with
the ethereal principle.” 1
That the use of the terms fire and sun were inter­
changeable and contemporaneous is indicated by the
frequent references in the Old Testament to the Lord
appearing in the form of fire or light. Thus: “ And
Mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the
Lord descended upon it in fire ” (Exodus xix. 18); and
again: “ For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire ”
(Deut. iv. 24); and yet again: “ And the angel of the
Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire ” (Exodus iii.
2).* A further indication of this dualistic concept is
the custom of painting pillars and other phallic em­
blems red or scarlet. Mahadcva, the Hindu emblem of
the male creator of the sun, is always painted red.3
tv
Animal Deities and their Phallic Significance
The creative and generative power in nature was often
represented by and worshipped in the form of an
animal. Usually the precise animal selected was famed
for its sexual virility. The same creative god was also
sometimes worshipped in the shape of a number of
animals, each of which signified some specific charac­
teristic. Apart from the bull and the serpent, which
were so universally worshipped as to call for considera­
tion in other sections of this work (cf. p. 79 and p. 180),
the goat ranked as one of the most popular, this animal's
1 R. Payne Knight, loc cit., p. 64.
4 See also Exodus xxiv. 17; Dcut. iv. 24; v. 25; Isaiah x. 17; xxxi. 9;
xlvii. 14: xxxiii. 14; Micah vii. 8; Malachi iii. 2.
3Thomas Inman, Ancient Faiths, Liverpool. 1868.
PI.ATK II!
p ir.u .i.ir s i r . x i-o k w a k i m n c ; o f f k y i i ,.
From MartVhal. .-Intiquitrs !>’!inrtrfavum (Paris, 17S0).
SA T YK A M ) (i()AT.
From MartVIial, Antiquite* J)'Hrnuhnium 1Paris. 17S0).
{•'arc [*(!}•> .'.s.
1
*
£
•
»
*
t
IT
1
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 29
excessive lubricity marking it as an especially suitable
representative of any generative or reproductive deity.
The Egyptians worshipped their sun-god Mendcs,1 in
the form of a goat. Thomas Shaw is of opinion that the
animal, as Mendes or Pan, represented to the Egyptians
exactly the same generative faculty or principle as that
expressed by the phallus itself.1
2 At the town of Men­
des, in the principal temple, there was a living male
goat, with which, if the statement of Herodotus is to be
accepted, naked female worshippers actually had carnal
intercourse. Male worshippers similarly had connexion
with she-goats. Diodorus Siculus bears out this, and
states that the goat was made a god on account of its
genital member and lasciviousness. Where a goat was
unprocurable, the image of a human phallus of extrava-
gent dimensions was erected in the temple and wor­
shipped. Priestley says of the worship of Mendcs that
the rites “ were more abominable than anything else we
read of in all history.”3 Satyrs and fauns in copulation
with the goat represented the reciprocal incarnation of
man with the deity, who, being both male and female
at the same time, was both active and passive in sexual
intercourse and procreation.4
Although Dr. Charles Owen’s assertion that the
adoration of animals originated with the ancient Egyp­
tians is based upon dubious premises, there is no doubt
that these same Egyptians were responsible for the ex­
tension and development of animal worship to a remark­
1 Gardner (Faiths of the World) says: “ There is no doubt that the
term Mendcs was used to describe both the hieroglyphical goat and the
holy city of Pan. The worship of Mendcs was afterwards transferred
from Northern to Southern Egypt, and the name of the deity was
changed to Mont.”
* Travels and Observations, Oxford, 1738, p. 396.
3Joseph Priestley, A Comparison of the Institutions of Moses, London,
1799. p. 100.
4 R. Payne Knight, op. cit.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
able degree. They deified many other animals besides
the bull, the cow and the goat; i.e. sheep, cats, dogs,
monkeys and wolves. Birds, too, were worshipped:
the pigeon was consecrated to Venus, the eagle to
Jupiter, the cock to yEscuIapius, the owl to Minerva.
To all of these animals and birds they erected temples.
Dr. Owen, remarking on the manner in which mem­
bers of the zoological and ornithological worlds were
accepted as symbolical of the deities, says:
“ The Egyptians assigned to their Gods, certain
Animals, as their Representatives, and being intro­
duced into the Temples, as the Images were in some
Christian Churches, they at last began to worship
them. This points out the Impiety of admitting
any symbolical Representations of Divinity into
Places of public Worship.” 1
The Auritac or Shepherd Kings adopted the ram as a
symbol of the generative principle. In accordance with
the practice of the day, says Dudley, they maintained
numbers of these animals and held them sacred* Thus
they acquired the name of shepherds.
“ The Egyptians, on the contrary, were votaries
of the aqueous principle, the symbol of the female
or productive power of nature, exhibited by the
cow. The controversy respecting the pre-eminence
of these two powers, the igneous and the aqueous,
appears to have been the cause of the schism which
divided the builders of the Tower of Babel— a
schism between idolaters which never has been
healed.2
Essay Towards a Natural History of Serpents, London, 1742,
PI>
- 235-6.
2 John Dudley, Naology. 1846, p. 91.
3°
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 31
According to Higgins, an ass’s head with vine tendrils
was attached to the pillars of beds in token of the
pleasure connected with sexual intercourse. In the
Middle Ages the ass denoted a salacious character; and
the ass’s head, which accompanied the phallus of the
Priapeia, was continued in the Baciballum of Petronius,
the bauble or sceptre of our ancient fools.1
The boar, in many mythologies, was the symbol of
winter or the destructive element in nature. This
animal was supposed to have killed Adonis, the sun-
god, and caused the suspension of reproduction until
the rebirth of the saviour, that is, the sun. It is sug­
gested by Knight that it was because of this belief con­
cerning the destructive or anti-generative powers of the
boar that arose the abhorrence of swine’s flesh, which
prevailed among the Egyptians and the Jews.2
The tortoise, possessing, like the serpent, the power
of retaining life in its limbs after mutilation or decapita­
tion, became a symbol of androgynity as well as of im­
mortality. Its protruding head, probably because of a
resemblance to the glans penis, was looked upon as a
phallic symbol. The world, according to the Hindus,
was borne on the back of a tortoise. We find it placed
under or at the feet of many deities, such as Apollo,
Mercury, and Venus, and serving as a foundation for
various symbolical representations of these and other
gods.
Fish-worship was common to many races of antiquity.
Dagon, the god of the Philistines, to whom reference is
made in the Old Testament,3 was half-man and half­
fish. He was worshipped throughout the East. Accord­
ing to Plutarch, it was because of this characteristic of
1 T. D. Fosbrokc, Antiquities, 1825, Vol. I, p. 717.
aR. Payne Knight, An Inquiry into the Symbolical Language of
Ancient Art and Mythology, 1018.
3 1 Sam. v. 4; Judges xvi. 33.
3 * PHALLIC WORSHIP
Dagon that the Egyptians, Greeks, and Syrians looked
upon fishes as sacred, and did not use them as food, an
opinion confirmed by Lucian. Diodorus Siculus says:
“ The Syrians eat no fish, but adore them as gods and
in the denunciation of idolatry by Yahwch there is a
warning against the making of graven images of “ any
fish that is in the waters.” 1 The Babylonian god
Oannes was a monster comprising the parts of both
man and fish.2 In the festivals dedicated to Bacchus
the women taking part in the processions carried the
symbol of the fish alongside the phallus. The consecra­
tion of a fish to the deity was the next step. As a
symbol of fecundity it was supposed to possess aphro-
disiacal properties, especially by the worshippers of
Venus.
According to such scientific opinion as prevailed in
ancient times, fish and birds were, like the saviours or
sun-gods, supposed to be virgin born.3 Abarbanel it
was who asserted that the sign of the coming of the
Saviour was the junction of Saturn with Jupiter in the
Zodiacal emblem Pisces. Additionally, the shape of
the fish was considered to bear some resemblance to that
of the female vulva, and to this factor was traced an
intimate connexion between the two.
1 Dcut. iv. 18.
3According to some authorities, Oannes and Dagon were actually the
same god.
* Virgin birth, in the true sense of the term, and as applied to the
human species, means the delivery of a child by a woman who has never
had sexual connexion with a man. The possibility of virgin birth was
accepted by the ancients, as is evidenced in the story of the conception
of Jesus Christ, prophesied by Isaiah and described by Matthew, and
in various other stories of virgin births to be found in the chronicles
of contemporary and older religious cults, thus Krishna, Buddha, Horus,
Ra and many others. (Scott's Encyclopxdia of Sex, p. 35.) Failing to
trace any connexion between coitus ana reproduction, it was at one time
customary to look upon fish, which were reproduced from spawn, and
birds, which came from eggs, as virgin bom. This early concept of
virgin birth should not be confused with parthenogenesis (see Scott’s
Encyclopedia of Sex, p. 225), which was unknown to the ancients.
Lucian tells us that the dove was a sacred bird among
the Assyrians, and there are passages in the Old Testa­
ment which indicate that it was hdd sacred among the
Hebrews. In Syria, at one time, it was worshipped as
a divinity. Juno, the virgin goddess of the Romans, the
acknowledged Queen of Heaven, was worshipped in the
form of a dove. The North American Indians recog­
nized the dove as the symbol of the earth, and addressed
it as the Mother. The Syrian Venus was hatched from
an egg incubated by a dove.
It is unnecessary to multiply instances, taken from
the mythologies of various races, proving that the dove
was a symbol of both gods and goddesses, of both the
male and female elements in creation. It seems prob­
able that, at first, the Holy Spirit was a mere emanation
of the androgynous or bisexual male god, or creator.
In the Jewish commentaries, it was usually represented
under the figure of a dove in the act of hatching its
eggs. As the female's part in creation became more
apparent and was recognized, even if dimly, as neces­
sary in some way to the process of reproduction, the
Holy Spirit became envisioned as something, emanating
from God, which entered woman and caused her to
produce young.1 Something of this seems to be implied
in Knight's explanation of the reason for the dove being
selected to represent the Holy Spirit. He is of opinion
that a bird was probably chosen for the emblem of the
third person of the Trinity to signify the phenomenon
of incubation, by which was figuratively expressed the
fructification of inert matter, caused by the vital spirit
moving over the waters. The dove was naturally
selected in the East, in preference to any other bird, on
account of its domestic familiarity with man, as it
1This power or process was also recognized as belonging to Satan or
the Devil.
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 33
C
34 PHALLIC WORSHIP
usually lodged under the same roof with him, and was
employed for carrying messages from one remote place
to another. Doves were also remarkable for the care
they devoted to their offspring, for a sort of conjugal
attachment and fidelity to each other, and for the fer­
vency of their sexual desires, whence they were sacred
to Venus and emblems of love.1
Firmicus has pointed out that Juno, the most famous
of the goddesses represented as a dove, was an air or a
spirit deity, creating souls rather than bodies. She was
equivalent to the phallic Sakti of the Hindus. In other
words, she was an essential feature of the androgynous
concept of creation. In the Hindu Sama Veda, we
read: "H e felt not delight being alone. He wished
another, and instantly became such, lie caused his
own self to fall in twain, and thus became man and
woman. He approached her, and thus were human
beings produced.” All of which is but an elaboration
of the account of the creation of man and woman given
in the book of Genesis, wherein is presented the same
fundamental androgynous hypothesis.
The Queen of Heaven, as the Holy Spirit, and per­
sonified as the dove, was the means by which God
created life. In other words, the female principle in
creation, in the early days of its conception, was thought
to be some mysterious force or power for which the
term “ Spirit” was the most satisfactory available at
that time.
v
The Vegetable Gods
One of the oldest forms of worship is that of trees.
The oak was dedicated to Jupiter, the laurel to Apollo,
1 R. Payne Knight, An Inquiry into the Symbolical Language of
Ancient Art and Mythology, 1818.
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 35
the bo-tree to Gotama. In ancient Britain, the Druids
worshipped their supreme god ^isus in the form of an
oak-tree. In India, it was customary for every woman
to be married to a tree. Generally speaking, in the
various mythologies, those trees and plants which pro­
duced fruit or seeds were considered to be female and
all others male.
THE TEMPTATION OF ADAM
From Higgins's Anaealypnt (1836)
There is plenty of evidence in the Bible that tree-
worship was rampant among the Israelites, as well as
among other races. The earliest reference is in con­
nexion with the temptation of Adam and Eve. This
worship of trees, however, was something far different
from the personification of every individual tree which
is a feature of primitive animism (see Chapter I). The
tree of life in the Garden of Eden was symbolical of
PHALLIC WORSHIP
the male and female reproductive elements, the tree
itself representing the male and the fruit the female
principle. Eating the forbidden fruit was a figurative
method of describing the sex act.
Moses was one of the founders of the phallic faith in
Palestine. Those who were not worshipping the phallic
Yahweh, were prostrating themselves before another
equally phallic deity: the god Chcmosh, or the god
Milcom, or the goddess Ashtoreth.' King Manasseh
and King Amon worshipped the sky, the sun, and the
stars, they raised altars to Baal; in short, they were
phallic worshippers of the first order. Solomon ex­
ceeded the lot of them in his devotion to phallicism.
His favourite wife Maachah erected a phallus in honour
statue, or symbolically as a pillar.
The delineation of the deity in the form of a tree was
followed by the worship of his image in the shape of a
statue, or symbolically as a pillar.
It was natural that figs, being the fruit of the tree of
life, should have close phallic associations. The leaves
of the tree were used for making aprons to cover male
and female nudity, a practice which still persists in
relation to the statues exhibited in many of our
museums. The shape of the fig resembling somewhat
that of the female womb, came to be blessed with the
same attributes, and to symbolize the womb of the
“ Mother goddess/' Thus phallic statues, in all lands
where the fig-tree flourished, were carved from the
wood, and the tree itself was dedicated to Bacchus.
Plutarch tells us that the phalli carried through the
streets in connexion with the festivals of Priapus, were
made from the wood of the tree, and that a basket of figs
featured prominently in the procession.
How important a part the pine cone played in the
1 See 1 Kings xi. 33.
3 6
worship of Bacchus has been described by Inman,1 and
portrayed by Maffei (cf. p. 159 and plate xni). In
nearly every mythology, including that of Christianity,
the association of worship of the virgin with the water-
lily is significant (cf. the lotus as a symbol of andro-
gynity, p. 88). The apple tree was universally wor­
shipped, its fruit being considered an emblem of genera­
tion as well as an aphrodisiac.
Just as many primitive tribes believed that the
human race owed its origin to certain animals, other
tribes thought their ancestors were trees or plants,
especially where there was observable some real or
fancied point of resemblance between the shape or
characteristics of the tree or plant and man or woman.
Thus the oak tree, says Wall (Sex and Sex Worship,
p. 129), was considered by the ancient Teutons to be
of the male sex, “ because the acorn looks like a glans
penis with its prepuce (acorn in its cupule) ”
For very similar reasons, the pomegranate was sym­
bolical of the female womb in a state of pregnancy,
and the immense number of seeds which it contains
made it a suitable emblem for a prolific mother god­
dess. We find the pomegranate featured in the orna­
mentation of the temples in many lands. It is said
to have been displayed prominently in the temple of
Solomon. The ancient pagan goddesses, Astarte,
Ishtar, and Ashtoreth, were frequently adorned with the
fruit, as in more modern times was the Virgin Mary.
The phallic associations of the mandrake were due
partly to the striking resemblance of its root to the
scrotum of man, and pardy because of its reputed
aphrodisiacal qualities, to which we find tribute given
in the Bible.2 Similar roots, in Japan (Ninjin) and in
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 37
1 Ancient Faiths, Vol. II. p. 491.
* Genesis xxx. 14-16.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
China (Ginseng), arc held in high repute, and the
prices which they realize are dependent upon the ex­
tent to which they “ resemble the human form. In
some instances this resemblance is remarkable.” 1
The lotus, or Egyptian water-lily, was worshipped
by the Tartars, the Japanese, and the Chinese, as a
symbol of the reproductive power in nature. Floating
on the water like a boat, to the Hindus it is the emblem
of the world, the whole plant indicating the earth and
the two principles of fecundation. The germ is both
Meru, and the Lingam: the petals and filaments arc
the mountains which encircle Meru, and arc also a type
of the Yoni; the leaves of the calyx are the four vast
regions to the cardinal points of Merit; and the leaves
of the plants arc the dwipas or isles round the land of
Jambu.* Plants analogous to the lotus were used in
other countries to symbolize the female part in crea­
tion, or as emblems of fecundity. Cinteotl, the Mexi­
can fertility goddess, is sometimes represented bear­
ing in her hand a water plant similar to the lotus.
A feature of this plant is the large number of seeds
contained in the fruit. This characteristic suggests
a phallic significance, while its self-fertilizing power
makes it peculiarly suitable for symbolizing the an-
drogynous creative god. The deities of various nations
are represented seated upon a lotus plant. Payne
Knight says:
“ The lotus is the Nelumbo of Linnaeus. This
plant grows in water, and amongst its broad leaves
puts forth a flower, in the centre of which is
formed the seed vessel, shaped like a bell or in-
* Edmund Buckley, Phallicism in Japan, University of Chicago Press,
1895, p. 17.
* Lieut. Francis Wilford, Asiatic Researches, 1799, Vol. HI, p. 364.
38
SUN, MOON AND NATURE WORSHIP 39
verted cone, and punctuated on the top with little
cavities or cells, in which the seeds grow. The
orifices of these cells being too small to let the
seeds drop out when ripe, they shoot forth into
new plants, in the places where they were found:
the bulb of the vessel serving as a matrix to
nourish them, until they acquire such a degree of
magnitude as to burst it open, and release them­
selves, after which, like other aquatic weeds, they
take root wherever the current deposits them.
This plant, therefore, being thus productive in
itself, and vegetating from its own matrix, with­
out being fostered in the earth, was naturally
adopted as the symbol of the productive power of
the waters, upon which the active spirit of the
Creator operated in giving life and vegetation to
matter. We accordingly find it employed in every
part of the northern hemisphere, where the sym­
bolical religion, improperly called idolatry, does
or ever did prevail. The sacred images of the
Tartars, Japanese, and Indians, arc almost all
placed upon it, of which numerous instances occur
in the publications of Kacmpfer, Sonnerat, etc.
The Brahma of India is represented sitting upon
his lotus throne, and the figures upon the Isiac
table hold the stem of this plant surmounted by
the seed vessel in one hand, and the cross repre­
senting the male organs of generation in the
other: thus signifying the universal power, both
active and passive, attributed to that goddess.”1
1Pavnc Knight, A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus.
C H A P T E R I I I
THE BIRTH OF PHALLICISM
i
The Importance of Reproduction
W e have seen that man attributed to nature his own
mind and feelings; that he looked upon the moon or
the sun or the sky as the great fecundating power in
the universe, and upon the earth as the recipient of
this power.
Many anthropologists and students of comparative
religion hold that phallic worship preceded sun-
worship, while others maintain that the two were con­
temporaneous. It seems to me that these writers over­
look, in all its significance and importance, the fact
that in the earliest stages of religious belief there was
no known or implied connexion between the sexual
organs and reproduction. It is true that vegetation and
prolificacy were the observed results of the warmth
and moisture bestowed upon the earth, and that either
the sun or the moon was looked upon as the most
powerful of all factors governing life. But the worship
of the planets, in this sense, was not phallicism. It
undoubtedly had much to do with the evolution of
phallic worship, but, without further developments,
it could not, in itself, be said to constitute phallicism.
The close and marked association between nature wor-
40
THE BIRTH OF PHALLICISM 41
ship and phallic worship was therefore a later develop­
ment and not an original partnership.
It was natural that man, at a very early stage in evo­
lution, should realize the importance of reproduction.
He saw vegetation grow, he saw plants and trees re­
produce themselves as if by magic, he observed that
certain animals, certain birds, and the women of his
own race, bore young. He understood nothing of the
process, but he was confronted with the result of some
phenomenon which he dimly visualized as the repro­
ductive force; a force, however, which he associated
with a miscellany of inanimate objects as well as
animal life. This mysterious reproductive force was
thought to have extraordinary and miraculous powers,
such as the ability to produce animate beings from in­
animate objects. Men and women were thought to
spring from stones and the soil.1
The recognition of some principle of duality in re­
production seems to have been part and parcel of every
notion of phallicism, starting with the hermaphro­
ditic or bisexual concept, to be replaced by a male
or active principle and a female or passive principle,
and again to be later developed into a definite husband
and an equally definite wife.
n
The Androgynous Origin of Mankind
The earliest conception of sex being hermaphroditic,
there was no notion of two distinct sexes having any
part in the production of life. It was conceded that
the god must combine the powers of creation and re­
production in one body.
i O. A. Wall. Sex and Sex Worship, Kimpton, 1920, p. 2.
4 * PHALLIC WORSHIP
The deified androgynous First Principle in creation
was visualized as the emanation of an ethereal spirit
which pervaded the whole universe, impregnating with
its own essence everything with which it came into
contact (cf. page 25). A recipient of the emanated or
diffused spirit therefore became of the same substance
and could be worshipped as the deity. Thus the mul­
tiplication of gods and goddesses and of their repre­
sentatives. “ Even those who worship other gods”
says the incarnate deity in an ancient Indian poem,
“ worship me although they know it not ” The con­
ception went further than this, however. The creative
spirit was continually flowing from and reverting back
to its source in various modes and degrees of progres­
sion and regression, something in the way that water
flows to and from the ocean. As a result of this cos­
mogony, mankind, animals, and vegetables even, were
all supposed to be impregnated with the nature and
characteristics of the deity.1
In the early stages of thought, the deities personify­
ing the sky and the earth were looked upon as being
joined together continuously and in all circumstances.
Before Baal and Beltis (the “ queen of heaven ” of the
Bible) blossomed forth as separate deities, they were
probably, says Layard, one and androgynous.
The planets, when they became gods, were andro­
gynous deities. And so by analogy and continuity
were the later personifications of these planets, of the
sky and of the sun. In connexion with the worship
of the hermaphroditic Venus, Maimonides mentions
seeing it affirmed in a book of magic, that when a man
adored the planet Venus, he should wear the em­
broidered vest of a female, and when a woman adored
the planet Mars, she should assume the arms and cloth-
1 R Payne Knight, op. cit.
THE BIRTH OF PHALUCISM 43
ing of a man.1 Further testimony respecting the ex­
istence of this practice is provided by Macrobius, who,
quoting Philochorus, says that “ in Althis they affirm
that Venus is the moon, and the men offer sacrifices to
her in woman’s attire, the women wearing male gar­
ments, because the same goddess is esteemed both male
and female ” (Saturnal, III, 8). For this reason, too,
her temples contained both consecrated harlots and
catamites.
The androgynous nature of Yahweh3 is clearly indi­
cated in Genesis: “ In the day that God created man
. . . male and female created he them; and blessed
them, and called their name Adam.” Because God
created man in his own image, Adam, like God, was a
hermaphrodite. It was later that God created woman
as a separate entity and sex, taking away from Adam,
for this express purpose, a part of his body. Both Plato
and Philo subscribed to the theory of the androgynous
origin of the human race, maintaining that the sep­
arate sexes evolved later. The sacred book of the
Hebrews, known as the Talmud, describes an andro­
gynous Adam. Contemporary deities were mainly
hermaphroditic: thus Phanes, Baal, and Phtha.
Much of this androgynity is indicated in the man­
ner in which the deities were compounded of both
animal and human forms. In this way the purely
animal deity was gradually changed to the human
deity. Thus a man’s head would be attached to the
body of a bull or a woman’s head to a fish. The satyrs
and fauns which besprinkle ancient sculpture and
1 Faber, Origin of Pagan Idolatry, Vol. Ill, p. 75.
* It has been held that Asher was an androgynous god, Ashtorcth
being the female half. Osborn, in his Religions of the World says: *
*We
may reasonably assume that the Canaanites adopted the Egyptian
fashion of splitting their idols in two, and that Asher was the male half
of Astarte.”
44 PHALLIC WORSHIP
literature present examples of this gradual metamor-
Thc results of this androgynous concept, and its uni­
versality, are alike indicated in the custom of cross­
dressing, of which we have many instances in histori­
cal documents. In Cyprus, at the shrine of Venus,
as both Maimonides and Macrobius imply (cf. pp. 42-3),
the male worshippers donned female attire, while the
women presented themselves in male habiliments. At
Coos, the priests of Hercules made their sacrifices in the
garments of a female. At the Greek festivities in hon­
our of Dionysus, the ithyphalli paraded in female
dress. The Argives, at their monthly festivities in
honour of the moon, practised transvestism. Tacitus
tells us that in connexion with certain rites of the
ancient Germans, the priests were dressed as women;
a custom paralleled in the Roman rites on the ides of
January.1 The priests attached to the temple of Hicra-
polis went further: in addition to assuming the man­
ners and clothes of women, they castrated themselves.
This concession to and practical exposition of the be­
lief in androgyny had inevitably sexual repercussions,
for, as Maimonides points out, “ the dress excited con­
cupiscence and gave occasion to whoredom.”
In the Hindu mythology, Siva and Parvati origi­
nated as the two halves of one androgynous god, Virag.
The great Brahma, too, was hermaphroditic. He usu­
ally stands upon a lotus, the symbol of androgynity.3
Early statues present male and female parts on the one
deity; the right side male, the left female. Synesius
alludes to an Egyptian deity bearing the inscription:
“ Thou art the father and thou art the mother.”3
1 Thomas Inman, Ancient Faiths, 1868.
* Ibid.
5 James Bonwick, Egyptian Belief and Modern Thought, 1878.
THE BIRTH OF PHALLICISM 45
Among the Etruscans, the priapus represented both
the male and female reproductive powers, and was
plainly hermaphroditic. There is an illustration in
Gorius (Tab. LVIII) which shows in the one figure the
membrum virile and the female breasts. Similarly the
Alein, called Jah in Genesis, is the unity of two repro­
ductive elements in one, both male and female.
The recognition that man played a part in creation
was not necessarily associated with the sex act. An
early concept recognized that God the creator breathed
into the nostrils the breath of life and man became a
living soul.1 Pythagorus was of opinion that seed con­
stituted “ vapour.” Ra, the Egyptian sun-god, was con­
sidered to possess the power of creating by thought, or
breath, or speech, in the shape of a command. The
original supreme god of the Hindus was termed “ the
Breathing Soul.”1
2
Later cosmologies envisaged the androgynous deity
producing life by self-fertilization, and this was doubt­
less the reason for many phallic gods being represented
with extremely large and elongated sexual members,
which were supposed to be capable of entering the
deity’s own mouth. Lanzoni has depicted this con­
ception of the ancients in a remarkable series of illus­
trative drawings.
Virgin birth, sometimes referred to, though errone­
ously, as immaculate conception, was accepted through­
out the world for many centuries. The possibility of
the female conceiving as a result of the entry of the
seed in spirit form, or through spirit mediation, was
everywhere acknowledged. The mythologies of many
nations allow room for no dispute on the point. There
1 Genesis ii. 7.
2Edward Sellon, Annotations on the Sacred Writings of the Hindus,
1902, p. 5.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
is the story of the twins, Remus and Romulus, virgin
born of the nymph Rhea; there is the story of Lao-tze
and of Confucius, the Chinese philosophers; there is
the story of the virgin births of Julius Cxsar, of Alex­
ander the Great, of Plato, of Pythagorus; and there is
the most celebrated story of all, believed in to this day,
the virgin birth of the Christ Jesus.
The extent to which the male and female genitals
are held in esteem has always been governed by the
degree of knowledge of sexual physiology on the part
of the worshippers. Granted the realization of some
dim notion of sex, the greater the mystcrv attached to
the phenomenon, the more pronounced is the degree
of reverence accorded to it. In those tribes where no
connexion was traced between the sexual act and child­
birth, the pleasure which resulted from coitus was suf­
ficient to induce marked reverence for it. Thus the
worshipping of both the male and female genitals; of
the male member and the female vulva; for, even to
the lowest form of intelligence, it was apparent that the
highest degree of sexual pleasure for the male was only
obtainable where a female was available. The pleasure
resulting from intercourse itself extended the reverence
of men and women for the act of coitus as well as for
the male and female genitals which rendered such an
act possible.
The pleasure principle associated with the sex act,
therefore, looming so large in the ideology of all savage
and primitive races, was naturally supposed to be
equally pleasurable to the gods. Religious rites and
ceremonies of all primitive races give clear indications
of these connexions or deductions.
It is easy, after the lapse of centuries in which
savage races have mixed with Europeans and to some
extent absorbed their knowledge and ideas, to give to
46
THE BIRTH OF PHALLICISM 47
the religious rites and customs of such races meanings
which are at variance with the fundamental facts. For
instance, it is a common assumption that many initia­
tory rites were adopted for the express purpose of facili­
tating and promoting population growth. This nouon,
is, in my opinion, by no means borne out by a study of
all the available data, particularly in view of the crude
ideas respecting sexual physiology and the phenom­
enon of human conception which were prevalent at the
time when such rites originated.
Indirectly, it is true, the practices of the natives
worked to the end of facilitating conception, and this
fact is largely responsible for the confusion of thought
which has led so many theologians and scientists to
draw erroneous conclusions. My contention is that,
without exception, the worship of sex by all primitive
races originated in the pleasure associated with coitus,
and not in any clearly conceived notion that inter­
course would produce children. The sex act gave
pleasure to those engaging in it, and by analogy it
would give pleasure to the gods. Man could think of
no part of himself for which he had greater regard
than his sexual member, and no part of woman for
which he had greater reverence than her pudendum.
We see indications of this in the nature of the sacri­
fices made to the phallic deities. The essence of sacri­
fice is the offer of something which will give pleasure
to the god. These sacrifices were invariably of a festive
and essentially sexual nature. To imitate the gods,
says Payne Knight, was, in the opinion of the ancients,
to feast, to rejoice, or to cultivate the useful and elegant
arts, by which we are all made partakers of their feli­
city. This was the case with almost all the nations,
except perhaps the Egyptians and their reformed imi­
tators the Jews, who, being governed by a hierarchy,
PHALLIC WORSHIP
endeavoured jo make the political regime fearsome and
venerable to the people, by an appearance of rigour and
austerity. How much this was in opposition to the real
wishes of the populace, however, is evident from the
many occasions that arc recorded when they rebelled
successfully against this restraint, indulging in the
more pleasing forms of worship of their neighbours,
the heathens and pagans whom Moses so thoroughly
denounced. Thus we read of them dancing and feast­
ing before the Golden Calf erected by Aaron; and
again, during the reign of Abigan, of them worship­
ping obscene idols, generally supposed to symbolize
Priapus.1
In early Christianity every entertainment or pleas­
urable function had in it something in the nature of a
sacrifice. To offer in some practical manner thanks
to the gods for the gifts bestowed was considered to be
an essential and a fundamental part of any such en­
tertainment. This was extended even to so ordinary
and habitual an affair as eating or drinking. A por­
tion, and usually the choicest portion, of everything,
was first presented to the deity.
Just as food and drink were offered the gods in a
sacrificial character, so, too, food and drink were re­
ceived from the gods as favours granted and as a means
of establishing spiritual proximity with them— hence
the Holy Communion of the Christian Church, in
which food and drink, by the act of consecration, be­
come divine in character. The connexion, at once
intimate and reciprocal, between sacrifice and com­
munion, is thus clearly established.
1 A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus, London, 1786.
48
THE BIRTH OF PHALLICISM 49
III
The Ambivalence of the Gods
As a corollory to the androgynous attributes of the
early deities, there was also their supposed ambiva­
lence. They were credited with powers of creation
and destruction, of good and evil. The granting of
these opposing qualities to the different members of a
trinity on the one hand, and to a polytheism on the
other, were later amplifications.
The original moon-gods and sun-gods were of this
ambivalent type. The sun was credited with the pos­
session of both creative and destructive powers, and
these concepts were also to some extent influenced by
the part of the globe in which the worshippers lived.
In the Gallery at Florence is a colossal image of the
male organ of generation, mounted upon the back of
a lion, and hung around with images of various
animals. This, says Knight, represents the co-opera­
tion of the creadng and destroying powers, which are
both blended and united in one figure, because both
are derived from one cause. The animals hung around
show likewise that both powers act to the same pur­
pose, that of replenishing the earth and peopling it with
still rising generations.1
In these representations of one god possessing both
creative and destructive abilities lie the explanation
of the seeming incongruity of worshipping gods of evil
as well as beneficent deities, and employing, as their
representatives, animals or objects which are evil in
their intent and consequence, and feared by man. We
see a pertinent example of this in the worship of the
1 A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus, 1786.
D
PHALLIC WORSHIP
serpent in almost all parts of the world (of. Chapter
n
According to Macrobius, in ancient Egypt, the des­
tructive power of the sun was represented by a wolf.
In other countries, the tiger or the lion filled this role.
In the vision of Ezekiel, Yahwch descends from heaven
upon the combined forms of the eagle, the bull and
the lion: the emblems of the ethereal spirit, of the
creative, and of the destructive powers, all of which
were united in the one true god, though hypostatically
divided in the Syrian Trinity.1
It was natural that the creation of the analogous con­
cept of a distinct female reproductive force should excite
strong dissatisfaction and opposition among those who
held to the original androgynous principle; and, further,
that there should be visualized a conflict of the male
and female deities for supremacy.
The theogony of Hesiod testifies to the existence of
such conflicts. Thus Ouranus, the god of atir or fire,
was hated by his consort Gaea or earth. He was accused
of cruelty to his own progeny. There is the account of
Saturn emasculating the tyrant god, and asserting the
superiority of the female principle. This, in turn, was
overwhelmed by the sect of Jupiter establishing the
apparent superiority of the male principle, leaving only
an optional pre-eminence to the female principle, ex­
hibited in the mysteries associated with the worship of
Ceres at Eleusis.2
Analogously and coincidentally with this ambivalent
concept there arose the idea of the trinity. Most of the
primitive races conceived a triad consisting of three
forces or powers in one god, or to put it another way,
three representatives of the one deity existent and func-
1 Ibid.
8 John Dudley, Naology, 1846.
50
THE BIRTH OF PHALLICISM 5 1
tioning in one body. Especially did this apply to the
old sun-gods, where the life of the sun— its birth, its
virility, and its decline or death— were personified in
three individual facets of the one personification. In
the next development of the idea of a trinity we have
the androgynous notion of creation, conceived and
personified in three manifestations— creation, preserva­
tion, destruction— of the life force. Says Wail, “ The
phallus was a trinity, acting as one impregnating unit,
although composed of three separate and differently-
functioned parts.” 1 In accordance with the multitudin­
ous personifications of those early days (see p. 8) these
primitive races gave names to the three forces or con­
cepts, and in later years these same names of powers,
supposed to be inherent in the one god, were interpreted
as referring to three separate individual deities. In
these circumstances, it is easy to understand how, cen­
turies afterwards, the idea has been evolved that such a
trinity existed from the beginning. It seems to me that
this perfectly rational hypothesis is probably the true
explanation of the seeming mystery and confusion.
Let us glance at some of the famous triads of antiquity
and see how their evolution supports this hypothesis.
The Hindu Trimurti, comprising Brahma, the Father
and creator; Vishnu, the Son and preserver; and Siva,
the Holy Spirit and destroyer, were three gods in one.
Kalidasa, the Indian poet, expresses this in a memorable
stanza:
In those three Persons the one God was shown—
Each First in place, each Last— not one alone;
O f Siva, Vishnu, Brahma, each may be
First, second, third, among the Blessed Three.2
*
*
1 Sex and Sex Worship, p. 408.
* The Birth of the War Cod (Griffith’s translation), 1853, Canto VII,
P 73-
52 PHALLIC WORSHIP
In China, according to Davis, Fo, the Chinese
Buddha, is one person, but has three forms;1 while
Child affirms that the ancient Chinese made sacrifices
to “ Him who is One and Three.”2
The ancient Scandinavian trinity comprised Odin,
Thor and Frey; while of the Peruvians Father Joseph
de Acosta savs:
“ It is strange that the Divell after his manner
hath brought a trinitie into idolatry, for the three
images of the Sunne called Apomti, Churunti, and
Intiquaoqui, which signifieth father and lord
Sunne, the sonne Sunne, and the brother Sunne.
In the like manner they named the three images
of Chuquilla, which is the God that rules the region
of the Aire, where it thunders, raines and snows.
I remember, that being in Cuquisaca, an honour­
able priest shewed me an information, which I had
long in my handcs, where it was proved that there
was a certain Guacca or oratory, whereas the
Indians did worship an idoll called Tangatanga,
which they saide was one in three, and three in
one.”3
So, too, the ancient Greeks, Persians and Egyptians;
the Assyrians, the Phcenicians, the Druids, the Tartars,
the Mexicans, et ah All had their trinities of gods,
worshipped in each case as three in one.
1 History of China.
3 The Progress of Religious Ideas, Vol. I, p. 210.
3 The Nalurall and Morall Historic of the East and West Indies, 1604,
Lib. 5. p. 412.
THE BIRTH OF PHALUCISM 53
IV
The Worship of Sex
It has been shown that the worship of sex started as
a pleasurable concept. Once it was thoroughly realized
where lay the responsibility for the pleasurable nature
of the sex act, it was perfectly natural that the organs
concerned in this sensation should be treated with the
greatest respect and adoration. This respect and adora­
tion for the external genitalia of man and woman was
extended to that of the external genitalia of the gods
and goddesses.
Everywhere man's virility and sexual powers were
applauded. Not unnaturally, the size of the sexual
member was taken to be a reliable indication of lubricity
and sexual prowess. The circumcised man was secretly
ashamed of his condition because it made the penis
appear smaller. The impotent man was ashamed and
was shunned by his womankind. The eunuch was
ashamed. The barren woman was ashamed.
The realization of the roles played by the male and
female respectively in reproduction did nothing to
invalidate or to diminish the adoration of the phallic
parts. On the contrary, it merely served to extend and
to solidify this adoration.
The command of the Hebrew tribal god, reiterated
throughout the pages of the Old Testament, was to “ be
fruitful and multiply.” For a woman to refrain from
marriage constituted an act of sin in the eyes of the
Lord. For a man to attempt to avoid the natural results
and object of the sex act was a crime of the first
magnitude, punishable with death. Did not God kill
Onan for this very act!
The assumption that the gods looked with favour
upon the indulgence in sexual intercourse and the dis­
54 PHALLIC WORSHIP
play of every form of erotic excitation or passion had
a profound influence. The sexual act and its con­
comitants, therefore, were productive of results satis­
factory to the community as well as to the individual.
In other words, sexual indulgence had a magical effect.
It was always, and is, to some extent, even to this day,
imbued with mystery.
In any consideration of phallicism or the worship of
sex it is important to remember that once the coital act
was recognized to be connected with the production of
life, it was naturally assumed that anv exhibition of
sexual indulgence would propitiate reproduction. The
two parts of the one thing: the pleasurable nature of
the sex act and its preliminaries, and the results of
coitus in the way of productivity, were inextricably
commingled, and the one was thought to have a direct
bearing upon the other. Every exhibition of sexual
appetite or passion was calculated to promote fertility.
Thus the indulgence in sexual promiscuity at fertility
rites, and even on the occasions of planting seed and
harvesting. In the course of a " certain annual festival
held in Nicaragua, women of whatever condition, could
abandon themselves to the embrace of whomever they
pleased, without incurring any disgrace.” 1 Among the
Maya Indians, says the same authority, “ whatever the
seed to be planted, the tillers of the soil must sleep apart
from their wives and concubines for several days, in
order that on the night before planting thev might in­
dulge their passions to the fullest extent; certain persons
are even said to have been appointed to perform the
sex act at the very moment when the first seeds were
deposited in the ground.”1
2
3
1 Hubert Howe Bancroft, The Native Races of the Pacific States of
North America, New York, 1874, Vol. Ill, p. 508.
3 Ibid., Vol. I, p. 7»o.
THE BIRTH OF PHALLICISM 55
This reaction to the sex act and its results, in com­
bination with the failure to associate sex with obscenity,1
sufficed to cause the ancients, and especially the pagans,
to enliven their temples with phallic images and decora­
tions. The exaggerated sexual members of the early
Roman, Greek and Egyptian phallic deities are in
accordance with the importance attached to sexual
virility and power.
The universal worship of sex in some symbolic form
or other, is well described in an old Persian manuscript.
The anonymous author of this manuscript, in referring
to the phallus, which he names Apprius (Priapus) says:
“ One Nation looks upon him as God; another, as
no more than a Man of a singular Cast; in one
Country he is the Object of the public Worship,
Altars are erected to him, Temples arc built in his
honour; in another he is worshipped in secret only;
he is here a swift running Flame, that consumes
both the Sacrificer and the Victim; there a refresh­
ing Dew, that gives Being and Increase to all
Things; in another Place he is no more than a mere
Grave-stone; among some he is the Phoenix that
springs up from its own Ashes; the Golden-Bough
that gives Existence to itself; among others he is a
Laughing-stock, a shapeless Monster; tho’ at the
same time they pav him more Honour and Respect
than to any other of their Gods. In every place he
is the Compass bv which all Mankind steer their
Actions; the Load stone that attracts every thing
to it.”2
The image of Priapus was considered to possess extra-
1 The concept of obscenity arose at a later stage in civilization. Sec
p. 264.
a History of King Apprius, etc., translated from the Persian, London,
1728, p. 3.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
ordinary healing powers, especially in relation to the
diseases of vencry. There is the story told in verse
(iPriapeia, Venetiis, 1517; English translation, Cosmo-
poli, 1890) of a poet affected with phimosis and
balanitis, who feared the knife of the surgeon, and
therefore hied him to a statue of Priapus, to which
god he prayed for help, and in due course was cured
of the infection.1 Rosenbaum, in presenting this story
as an indication of the virtues supposed to be possessed
by phallicism, suggests that it supports his contention
that venereal disease led to the introduction of phallic
worship2(cf. p. 153).
Just as Priapus secured a reputation for healing
affections of the male genitals, so, too, Isis was said to
have gained fame as a healer of female venereal in­
fections as well as diseases peculiar to women. There
are grounds for this supposition, remarks Rosenbaum,
as “ the temples of the goddess were full of images of
parts of the body that had been healed, and of named
organs.”3
The worship of the sexual members suggested an
analogous adoration of other parts of the body con­
nected with sexual desire. Petronius mentions the
worship of the female buttocks by the ancient Romans,
and a similar practice would appear to have been con­
nected with the rites of devil-worship and witchcraft
in the Middle Ages. In all such cases it is probable
there was associated some form of anal eroticism.
The connexion between sex and religion in Christi­
anity and the veneration for the generative organs are
1 The actual verse is too gross in its terminology for reproduction here,
but it purports to present an explanation of the appearance of a repro­
duction of the sexual organ on tne statue. The poet, in his supplication
to Priapus, promised to paint upon a consecrated tablet, an exact repro­
duction in size, shape and colour, of the god's generative member.
* Sec Julius Rosenbaum, The Plague of Lust, Paris, 1901, Vol. I, p. 46.
* Ibid.
5<5
Pl.ATK IV
VARIOUS PRIAPI.
From Voyage Pittorcsquc (Paris, 1782).
[P a ce page 56.
h
• T
I
►'I •
THE BIRTH OF PHALLIC1SM 57
alike indicated in the practice of refusing to admit, as
priests of God, any but those in full possession of the
outward symbols of sexual virility. The old law was
formulated in the days of Moses, thus: “ He that is
wounded in the stones, or hath his privy member cut
off, shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord ”
(Deut. xxiii. i). Until comparatively recently an ex­
amination of the genitals was essential in the case of
those desiring to become priests. Roscoe tells us that
“ on the nth August, 1492, after Roderigo (Borgia)
had assumed the name of Alexander VI, and made his
entrance into the Church of St. Peter, he was taken
aside to undergo the final test of his qualifications,
which in this particular instance might have been dis­
pensed with.” 1
Phallicism was inevitably and universally associated
with the concept of immortality. We see examples of
this connexion in the religious beliefs and customs of
many ancient races: thus the pronouncedly phallic
nature of many fertility cults; the practice among the
Hindus of burying Lingams with the dead; and in
Egypt of carving phallic images upon tombs and
coffins.
1 Quoted by J. B. Hnnnav in Christianity: The Sources of its Teaching
and Symbolism, Griffiths, London, 1913, p. 218
C H A P T E R I V
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL
PROMISCUITY
i
The Virgin and the Gods
T he custom of sacrificing the virginity of woman to
the gods appeared in the rites connected with many
ancient religious faiths. There is little to wonder at in
this, for in almost every primitive race it was customary
to hold the view that the first-fruits of every kind, human,
animal and vegetable, should be offered to the reign­
ing deity. Thus the sacrifice of the eldest son in
ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome.
Strabo states that at Thebes it was customary to
select a virgin of marked beauty and aristocratic birth
for sacrifice to Jupiter. The girl, in many cases, had
her hymen ruptured upon the phallus of the god’s
image within the temple. St. Augustine, in reference
to this practice, says: “ Priapus is there upon whose
huge and beastly member the new bride was comman­
ded (after a most honest, old and religious order ob­
served by the Matrons) to gette uppe and sitte” 1
Apparently the practice was something more than a
purely religious rite, for the learned Io. Lod. Vives,
commenting upon the passage from St. Augustine,
1 Of the Citie of Corf, Lib. VI, Chap. 9.
58
says: “ Mutinus was a god upon whose privy part the
bride used to sit, in signe that he had first tasted their
chastity: that this was Priapus we have shewed; his
office was to make the man more active and the woman
more patient in the first copulation”
Other contemporary writers refer to this custom of
sacrificing a bride’s virginity to this same Roman god
Mutinus. Thus Lactantius says: “ And Mutinus, in
whose shameful lap brides sit, in order that the god
may appear to have gathered the first-fruits of their
virginity.” At Goa, says Rosenbaum, every pagoda
contains “ a man’s member made of iron or ivory ”
which is forced into the vagina of the bride by her
parents or relations, until it causes an effusion of blood
indicative of the rupture of the hymen.1
It should not be overlooked, too, that fertility in
women was a greatly prized asset, barrenness being a
condition of which to be ashamed and to dread. The
first purpose of woman was to “ replenish the earth.”
The command of Yahweh was but the repetitive com­
mand of numbers of contemporary pagan gods. In
accordance with the lack of biological knowledge at
that time, this command was considered to apply far
more to the woman than to the man, seeing that virgin
birth was an accepted doctrine. Even the Greek and
Roman philosophers and medicos subscribed to this
belief (cf. p. 32).
To ensure or to promote fertility women were pre­
pared to go to any lengths and to make any sacrifices.
Foremost among the efforts to this end was the propi­
tiation of the god or goddess by phallic offerings, either
real or symbolical. “ Stone offerings of phalli are
made at the present day,” says Westropp, “ in a Budd­
hist temple in Pekin, and for the same object Moham-
*Julius Rosenbaum, The Plague of Lust.
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 59
6o PHALLIC WORSHIP
medan women kiss with reverence the organ of genera­
tion of an idiot or a saint.”1 Phallic amulets, as love
and fertility charms, are worn in India, Ceylon and
Egypt.2 In Java there are stones, the touching of which
it is thought “ will open woman’s womb.”3 The wide­
spread belief in the powers of a phallic god or of his
accredited representative to confer upon women, both
before and after marriage, the blessing of fertility, was
responsible for the notion that the finest way in which
fertility could be assured was to offer one’s virginity as
a sacrifice to the god. It was to this belief that the
practice was due of sleeping in the temples and having
intercourse with the god, a practice to which I shall
have occasion to refer when dealing with various phal­
lic ceremonies in later chapters.
In some instances the part of the god was played by
a priest attached to the temple. The virgin was de­
flowered naturally instead of artificially. Married
women, wishing to be cured of their barrenness, visited
the temples dedicated to fertility gods, and in many
cases spent the night there and were “ visited ” by the
god. Dulaure tells a tale of a villager’s wife who
entered the Church of Orcival in Auvergne and asked
a burly canon, who was the only person present,
“ Where is the pillar which makes women fruitful?”
“ I,” replied the canon, “ I am the pillar! ”4 In the
city of Surat, according to Sig. Pietro della Valle, there
was a small cupola or chapel dedicated to the goddess
Parveti. It was visited by women who desired a cure
for their sterility, “ priests within the chapel supplying
1 H. M. Wcstropp and C. S. Wake, Ancient Symbol Worship, New
York, 1875, p. 31. .
2Magnus Hirschfcld, Women, East and West, Heinemann (Medical
Hooks), 1935, p. 148.
* Ibid., p. 120.
* Jacqucs-Antoinc Dulaure, Histoire abregee de difjirens cubes, Paris,
1825.
the defects of their husbands.”1 According to Jose­
phus, in a temple of Isis, the part of the god Anubis
was once played by Decius Mundus. In this way he
succeeded in having connexion with a noble lady called
Paulina, who was under the impression that she was
being embraced by and serving the god.
It would appear that during the orgies connected
with the worsnip of Siva or Vishnu, as well as Jugger­
naut (cf. p. 214) and other related or subsidiary deities,
promiscuity for the purpose of removing the stigma
of sterility was prevalent. The Phalgun festival was
celebrated with rites which eveiy observer described as
filthy and indecent. The fanatical Hindu worshippers
were here in no respect superior morally to or different
from the worshippers of Priapus, of Osiris, or of any
other phallic deity, as will be apparent when we come
to consider these rites and ceremonies in a later chap­
ter of this work.
Religious defloration was customary in the Southern
Deccan during the sixteenth century. It was here that
the Portuguese, Duarte Barbosa, first saw girls of ten
years artificially deflowered by means of the Lingam.2
The service of defloration, strange as it may appear
to modern European and American ideas, was looked
upon by the woman’s husband with gratitude and
thankfulness. Virginity, in those ancient days, was
not a valuable asset. On the contrary, in very many
instances, the husband refused to deflower his own
wife. In certain primitive races this view still holds.
Rosenbaum, writing at the commencement of the
present century, says:
“ To this day the bridegroom at Goa gives
1 Travels into East Indies. London, 1665.
a Iwan Bloch. The Sexual Life of Our Time, Rebman, London, 1908.
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 6 1
62 PHALLIC WORSHIP
thanks to the Priapus (Lingam) that has loosed
his bride’s virgin-zone, with marks of the deepest
adoration and gratitude for having performed this
honourable service and so relieved him of a hcavv
task.” 1
There were cogent reasons for the lack of virtue
attached to virginity among primitive races. First and
foremost was the widespread belief that the flow of
blood accompanying the rupturing of the hymen was
harmful to the bridegroom. No clear distinction ex­
isted between this virginal haemorrhage and the men­
strual discharge, with the result that the taboo associa­
ted with the one was inevitably associated with the
other.
Holy men, such as priests, kings, and chiefs, were
credited with the power to deflower a virgin with im­
punity; and there seems room for a suspicion that in
a considerable number of cases, the licentious clergy
and aristocracy imposed upon the credulity of the
people in furtherance of their sexual pleasures.
From the offer of virginity, we come to the god’s
demand for the sacrifice and consequent enjoyment
of the bride’s first-fruit. We see an example of this
connected with the Christian religion in the sacrifice
of the virginity of Mary to the Holy Ghost. The right
of the god was extended to his surrogates or representa­
tives. In this lies the beginning of the jus primx
noctis of medieval Europe. The rite of defloration
had, too, something to do with the practice of incest
in many tribes. Westermarck provides instances of a
custom, at one time prevalent among the Sinhalese,
of the father claiming the privilege of deflowering his
own daughter before marriage, asserting a right “ to
»Julius Rosenbaum, The Plague of Lust, Vol. I, p. 26.
the first-fruit of the tree he had planted.”1 In other
instances, defloration was carried out by a member of
some alien tribe, who, says Westermarck, was con­
sidered to be a sort of semi-supernatural being, and
because of this not only immune himself from any
harmful effects consequent of contact with the blood,
but in addition able to confer beneficial effects upon
the female.
This belief in the benefits conferred upon the bride
by intercourse with any holy person, and, above and
beyond all, by intercourse with the god himself, was
responsible in a majority of cases for pre-marital de­
floration, apart from or in addition to any question
in the case of the husband of the fear of contamination
or injury through virginal haemorrhage.
Dr. Jacobus X----- quotes a passage from Gemelli
Cancri, communicated by Jager to the Berlin Anthro­
pological Society, referring to a “ stupratio officialis
practised at a certain period among the Bisayos of the
Philippine Islands,” thus:
“ 4There is no known experience of a custom
so barbarous as that which had been there estab­
lished of having public officials, and even paid
very dearly, to take the virginity of young girls,
the same being considered to be an obstacle to the
pleasures of the husband.' ”2
1 E. A. Westermarck, The History of Human Marriage, Macmillan,
London, 1891.
3 Untrodden Fields of Anthropology, Paris, 1898.
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 6 3
*4 PHALLIC WORSHIP
II
The Cult of Myhtta
Herodotus has told us that, in ancient Babylonia,
every female was compelled to hie her to the temple
of Mylitta, the goddess of love, and there offer herself
to any male who desired to have intercourse with her.
She was ordered to remain in the temple until some­
one claimed this privilege, which enabled her to place
upon the altar of the goddess the fee she had received
for the use of her body, and thus secure her release.
It was not uncommon for an ugly maiden to remain
in the temple for months on end before she was free
to go her ways. On the other hand, in the case of a
beautiful and attractive girl, her stay was often only
a matter of hours. It is noteworthy that in this prac­
tice it was not necessarily a matter of defloration:
married women as well as virgins were compelled to
attend. Once in a woman’s lifetime was the sacrifice
demanded: the precise age or period seems to have
been left to the woman herself.
The account from the pen of the historian has been
hotly disputed by theological writers, but there is a
wealth of other evidence, some of it contemporary,
which can leave not the slightest doubt in the mind
of the impartial inquirer that Herodotus told nothing
more than the truth. Baruch and Strabo both con­
firm the account. In the Apocrypha, too, we read:
“ It is said that the Babylonian women with
cords about them sit in the ways, burning bran
for incense; but if any of them, drawn by some
that passeth by, be with him, she reproacheth her
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 6 j
fellow, that she was not thought as worthy as
herself, nor her cord broken.”
Nor was this Babylonian temple mentioned by Her­
odotus an isolated case. The Mylitta cult was practised
in many parts of the country, in other lands, notably
Egypt and Greece, the women served their respective
deities in much the same way. Strabo says that the
Temple of Aphrodite Pome at Corinth contained no
fewer than a thousand harlots at a time, all of whom
served the goddess. Further, affirms this same his­
torian, among the ancient Greeks, it was customary to
dedicate to Zeus the most beautiful virgin girls avail­
able. They were forced to remain in the service of the
deity, giving their bodies to all men who sought them,
until the onset of menstruation proclaimed the right
to embrace marriage. In the temple of Aesculapius,
near Tithoraea, there was always in readiness a bed
prepared for the purpose of incubation, which was prac­
tised there, “ as in all the other sanctuaries of that
In addition to a miscellany of sexual perversions
which were features of the worship of Venus, a similar
practice to that mentioned by Herodotus is referred to
by Dr. Charles Owen, who says:
“ Another Instance of monstrous Degeneracy,
we have among the Phoenicians, who offer’d yearly
Sacrifices to Saturn of young Infants; and m the
Temple of Venus, practised not only Whoredom,
but the most unnatural Sin of Sodomy also; yea,
by the Laws of their Religion, were bound to
prostitute their daughters to Venus, before they
married them: in their Temple the Women who
1 S. Baring-Gould, The Origin and Development of Religious Belief,
London, 1869, p. 405.
E
66 PIIALUC WORSHIP
refused to be shaved, were obliged to yield up their
honour to Strangers for one day.” 1
There would appear to be a close connexion between
the dedication of girls and women to the temples of the
gods, and the exhibition of sexual licence or promiscuity
at the festivals held in honour of these gods either
annually or at stated intervals. The fertility rites in
particular were occasions for sexual orgies of the most
extravagant nature.
It is a matter of some dubiety whether or not temple
prostitution preceded this promiscuity of the festivals.
Probably both originated side by side. Certainly we
have evidence that prostitutes took part in these fes­
tivals, on such occasions being accorded degrees of
liberty to indulge their wantonness that would be
denied them at normal times.
It is indeed noteworthy that at all times and in all
races the holding of festivals provided occasions when
many of the regulations governing sexual behaviour
were temporarily abandoned. Even in those societies
where a severe Puritanism prevailed, these annual
festivals were orgies of drunkenness and promiscuity.
Thus the Mayas of North America, at their annual
festivities, threw all restraint to the winds and indulged
in every form of sexual vice.2
It is the rule rather than the exception for every
standard of decorum and all ideas of modesty to be
shamelessly disregarded. When the worshippers be­
come intoxicated, men and women mix promiscuously,
and there is not the slightest restraint on any kind of
excess. A t certain of the Indian festivals, a husband
1 An Essay Towards a Natural History of Serpents, London. 1743,
P- 239.
8 H. H. Bancroft, The Native Races of the Pacific States, Vol. II, p. 676.
sees his wife in the arms of another man, and has not
the right to recall her, or to find fault with what is going
on under his eves. The women are there in common.
All castes are confounded and the Brahman is not in
any sense superior to the Pariah.1
Rosenbaum is of opinion that the worship of Isis,
which reached its highest pitch at the Triumvirate, was
responsible for the development of promiscuity. He
says:
“ Under pretence of serving Isis, the matrons
found an opportunity of wantoning unhindered in
the arms of paramours, for the husbands dared not
enter the temple precincts while their wives were
performing their ten days devotions there.”2
Even more marked in their sexual abandon and
promiscuity were the feasts of the ancient Persians.
The following account of what took place is from a
curious seventeenth century volume:
“ There are some then couple together in their
sacred feasts (as they term them) promiscuously,
when thev meet in their Delubriums, where they
spread a clean table-cloth on the floor, on which
they place their banquets to inflame their lascivious
heat, which must be acknowledged to be set on
fire by hell, whatever the extract that they worship
as a spark of the sun, may be disended to be.
When they take away, they strew the foul cloth
with meal-flour, and the better to perpetuate their
incestuous lusts, they put out the lights, and shift­
ing themselves stark naked, both men and women,
the men cast their breeches on a heap in a corner
*J. A. Dubois, Description of the Character, Manners and Customs
of the People of India, p. 172.
8Julius Rosenbaum, The Plague of Lust, Vol. I, p. 103.
TIIE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 67
68 PIIALLIC WORSHIP
o£ the room; which being done, the women run in
the dark to catch as catch can; and whatever lot
they light on, the lamps being again lighted, they
firmly embrace for their lover, if it be father or
brother, or any other relation: and which is still
worse, the night being spent in bestiality, the nasty
Flour (which by their filthiness either of vomit
or excrement in which they wallowed like brutes)
is kneaded into a paste, and eaten as a sacrament
to repeat the same ungodly Festival annually, as if
it were a sacrifice well-pleasing to their deities.” 1
The goddess Flora, says Lactantius, was a Lady of
Pleasure, and at the Floralia itself, the festival held in
honour of the goddess, men and women danced and
feasted as naked as the day on which they were born.
The chastity of both sexes, asserts St. Augustine, was
sacrificed in honour of the goddess. But we shall have
cause to examine the promiscuity prevailing at the
Roman and Greek festivals in another chapter.
hi
The Rise of Sacred Harlotry
The defloration of virgins in the temples of gods, the
rites of Mylitta described by Herodotus, and analogous
customs in other races preceded, and in large measure
gave rise to, religious prostitution in its true sense: that
is, the wedding or dedication of women to the service
of the gods. In some cases this custom was restricted
to girls before marriage; in other instances the service
called upon in the name of the deity was measured by
the lifetime of the devotee.
1 John Fryer, A N ew A cco u n t o f E ast In d ia a n d Persia, London, 1698,
p. 266.
Many attempts have been made to explain the origin
of religious prostitution. Staniland Wake is of opinion
that in the custom among primitive races of providing
sexual hospitality for visitors and strangers, together
with the strong desire for children, which led married
women “ to sacrifice their own virginity as an offering
to the goddess of fecundity, or to dedicate their
daughters to her service, we have a perfect explana­
tion/'1 Other authorities incline to the belief that its
origin was due to the widespread practice of destroying
the virginity of women before marriage, to which
custom allusion has already been made. This last-
named explanation, as Frazer has pointed out, fails to
account for married women becoming sacred prostitutes,
it fails to account for the practice by both virgins and
married women of habitual prostitution, and finally
and importantly, it fails to account for the presence in
the temples of sacred men.3 Wake's hypothesis comes
nearer the truth, though here again no explanation is
provided for the incidence of male prostitution.
Now while it may be that the desire for parentage or
the wish to provide proof of fertility, was a responsible
factor in relation to many females, the reasons ad­
vanced by Tawney seem to me far more likely to be in
accord with the known facts. These reasons, in brief,
are: (i) the need of the male god for concubines; (2)
the provision by these women of assistance to the god­
dess of fertility in her work of procreation, particularly
during her absence; and (3) the sacrifice to the goddess
of woman’s most important, personal, and valued pos­
session in the hope of increasing the prosperity of the
land.3 The phallic implications of this view arc ap-
1 C. Staniland Wake, Serpent W orship an d O th er Essays, 1888.
2 J. G. Frazer, A d o n is, A ttis, O siris, Macmillan, 1914.
* T h e O cean of Story, translated by C. H. Tawney. See article on
" Sacred Prostitution ” in Appendix IV to Vol. I, London, 1924.
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 69
7 0 PHALLIC WORSHIP
parent. In addition, one cannot overlook the signifi­
cance of the encouragement afforded by the priest­
hood to the women to become temple prostitutes.
Apart from the opportunities presented of satisfying
their own carnal appetites in a manner to which public
opinion could take no exception, the earnings of these
harlots were, in many cases, the main and often the
sole means of providing for the upkeep of the temples.
Dudley is of opinion that the practice of devoting the
person, whether male or female, to any deity, owed its
origin to the religious appropriation of animals,1 a
theory which, though it cannot provide any universally
applicable explanation of sacred prostitution, may have
been and probably was a fundamental cause in certain
instances. (See the sacrifice of horses, p. 216.)
According to Strabo, the daughters of the aristo­
cratic families were dedicated to the service of Anai'tis;
and in Egypt a special class of women called pellices
(harlots), consecrated in the service of the patron deity
of Thebes, gave themselves unrestrictedly to any men
they chose. Lucian says that at Byblos in Phoenicia,
in the huge temple of Astarte, women sacrificed their
sexuality to the goddess. At Carthage, states St.
Augustine, the Phoenicians sacrificed their daughters
to Venus, before marriage. (Sec also p. 58.) In the
service of this same deity, at Athens, every month in
the year, on one particular day, professional prostitutes
plied their trade, surrendering the profits to the god­
dess. ;£?5
* •
There is abundant evidence in the Bible of the ex­
istence of sacred prostitution. The worship of Baal-
Peor was accompanied by sexual promiscuity, and
there are indications that both male and female har­
lots were attached to the temples dedicated to the god.
1 John Dudley, N aology, 1846.
PI.ATK V
•-
r
ff*
f
iI
VKNUS, A N D R O G Y N O U S G O D D K SS O F l,O YF.
(Height of marble, 5 feet and J inch.)
From Specimens of Ancient Sculpture (1N35).
[Face page 70.
*
•I
ft
# A
I
%
In the nineteenth chapter of Leviticus there is a warn­
ing against parents prostituting their daughters, which
probably refers to temple harlotry; and in the Greek
version of the Old Testament the expression “ high
places,” in Ezekiel xvi. 39 is rendered as a place of in­
decent resort.1
It would appear that religious prostitution was cus­
tomary in Scandinavia before the introduction of
Christianity.2 The earliest Europeans to visit Cochin
China found sacred harlotry in operation there. Sim­
ilarly, in Mexico, girls were consecrated to the god­
desses of love.
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 7 1
IV
Male Prostitution
The Kadeshim mentioned in the Old Testament
were male prostitutes. They were attached to the temples
and dedicated to the service of the deities in the same
way that the female harlots (Kadeshoth) were. The
Midianitc and the Chaldean cults, contemporaries and
rivals of the Hebrew faith, were characterized by ab­
normal sexual practices. The worshippers of certain
pagan gods were just as anxious to perform intercourse
with the catamites attached to their temples as were
those worshipping at the shrine of Venus anxious to
have intercourse with female prostitutes. Rosenbaum
says that the eunuch priests inhabiting the temples of
Artemis and Cybele were sodomites.
The reiterated condemnation of male prostitution
in the Old Testament is evidence of its existence even
1 James Gardner, F a ith s o f th e W orld, 1858, Vol. II, p. 720.
a W. G. Sumner, Folkw ays, Boston, 1907, p. 543.
72 PHALLIC WORSHIP
among the Hebrews themselves. Thus wc read in
Leviticus:
“ If a man also lie with mankind as he lieth with
a woman, both of them have committed an abomi­
nation; they shall surely be put to death; their
blood shall be upon them.” 1
Along with female prostitution, the vices of sodomy,
pederasty, and bestiality were brought from other lands
and practised widely; in some cases openly, but more
often surreptitiously.
“ And there were also sodomites in the land,
and they did according to all the abominations
of the nations which the Lord cast out before the
children of Israel.” (i Kings xiv. 24.)
Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed because they
were centres of sexual abnormality. Asa, on succeed­
ing to the throne, ordered out of Judah all the sodom­
ites along with their idols. The extent of the practices
is indicated, however, by the fact that, for years, all
these efforts proved unavailing, for it was left to Jehosh-
aphat to complete the task which Asa had begun.
The existence of analogous practices in other coun­
tries is undeniable, practices which survived long after
the time of the ancient Greeks and Hebrews. For in­
stance, according to a seventeenth-century observer,
in Peru
" where the devil so far prevailed in their beastly
devotions, that there were boys consecrated to
serve in the temple, and at the times of their sacri­
fices and solemn feasts the Lords and principal
men abused them to that detestable filthiness; and
1 See also 3 Kings xxiii. 7; Dcut. xxiii. 17; and, in the New Testament,
Romans i. 27.
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 73
generally in the hill-countries the Devil under
show of holiness had brought in that vice. For
every temple or principal house of adoration kept
one man or two or more; which were attired like
women even from the time of childhood, and
spake like them, imitating them in everything;
with whom under pretext of holiness and religion
their principal men on principal days had that
hellish commerce.” 1
A somewhat similar practice prevailed among cer­
tain of the North American Indian tribes, according to
Catlin. The “ Berdashe ” or “ I-coo-coo-a ” he says, is
a Sioux male dressed in female attire, who is kept for
homosexual practices and is considered to be “ sacred.”
A feast is given in his honour each year.2
In Dahomey male prostitution is rendered neces­
sary by the Amazonian system which is in force.
There are eunuchesses as well as eunuchs, and this
peculiar system calls for “ hetaerae for the women as
well as for the male fighters.”3
v
The Sacred Harlots of India
In no country in the world did religious prostitu­
tion flourish more than in India, and in no country
has it longer survived the advance of civilization. The
dancing-girls attached to the temples were invariably
prostitutes. In some cases they were married to the
idol of the temple; in other instances they posed as
1 H. More, Grand Mystery of Godliness, London, 1660. Book III, pp.
8.V4*
* Geo. Catlin, North American Indians, London, 1841, Vol. II, pp. 83 4.
* Richard F. Burton, Memoirs of the Anthropological Society of
London, Vol. I, 1865.
74 PHALLIC WORSHIP
attendants who were compelled to give their earnings
to the idol. Buchanan, who gave his impressions of
India early in the nineteenth century, says:
“ These dancing-women, and their musicians,
thus now form a separate kind of caste, and a cer­
tain number of them are attached to every temple
of any consequence. The allowances which the
musicians receive for their public duty is very
small; yet morning and evening they are bound
to attend at the temple to perform before the
image. They must also receive every person
travelling on account of the government, meet him
at some distance from the town, and conduct him
to his quarters with music and dancing. All the
handsome girls are instructed to dance and sing,
and are all prostitutes, at least to the Brahmans.
In ordinary sects they are quite common, but,
under the Company’s government, those attached
to temples of extraordinary sanctity arc reserved
entirely for the use of the native, officers, who are
all Brahmans, and who would turn out from the
sect any girl that profaned herself by communica­
tion with persons of low caste, or of no caste at
all, such as Christians or Mussulmans. Indeed,
almost every one of these girls that is tolerably
sightly is taken by some officer of revenue for his
own special use, and is seldom permitted to go to
the temple, except in his presence.” 1
Although most of the temple prostitutes were girls
forced by their parents, or by the powerful clergy, to
dedicate their services to the god, there were many
older women among them who chose their profession of
1 Francis Buchanan, A Journey from M adras, London, 1807, Vol. II,
p. 267.
their own free will. For instance, in the temples of
Tulava there was a singular custom which was respon­
sible for the creation of a caste named Moylar. Any
woman belonging to one of the four pure castes, Brah­
man, Kshatriya, Vaisya, and Sudra, who was dissatis­
fied with her husband, or who was a widow and there­
fore debarred from re-marriage, and tired of a life of
celibacy, was a potential candidate for entry into the
Moylar caste and the life of a temple prostitute. To
this end, she hied her to the nearest temple, and ate
some of the rice that is offered to the idol. She was
then taken before the officials and certain responsible
people of her own caste qualified to inquire into the
cause of her resolution. If she belonged to the Brah­
man caste she was given the option of living either in
the temple or outside its precincts. In the event of her
electing to be a temple inmate, she received a specified
daily allowance of rice, and each year a piece of cloth
for her raiment. Her duties were to sweep the temple,
fan the idol with a Tibet cow's tail (Bos gruiens); and as
regards her armours, she must confine them to the
Brahmans. Actually, as a rule, she became a concu­
bine to some officer, who flogged her severely if he
caught her granting favours to any other person. Any
woman who preferred to live outside the temple, and
likewise any woman belonging to one of the three
lower castes (who was in no circumstances allowed to
reside in the temple) was in no way restricted in the
choice of a man with whom to cohabit so long as he was
of pure descent. The only stipulation was that she
must pay annually to the temple a fixed sum of money.1
Indeed temple harlotry seems to have been an integ­
ral part of the worship of the Hindu phallic deities. The
Abbe Dubois says:
1 Ibid., Vol. Ill, p. 65.
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 75
PHALLIC WORSHIP
76
“ In the sects of Siva and Vishnu they admit a
kind of priestess, or woman specially ordained to
the sendee of their deities. They are different
from the dancing-women of the temples; but they
follow the same infamous course of life with them.
For the priestesses of Siva and Vishnu, after being
consecrated, become common to their sect, under
the name of spouses to these divinities; they arc
for the most part women who have been seduced
by the Jangama and the Vashtuma, that is, by the
priests of Vishnu and Siva, who, to save their own
credit and the honour of their families, whom they
have thus disgraced, lay the crime to the charge of
their respective gods, to whom they impute the
deed. They devote these women to the divine
service bv the use of certain ceremonies, after
which they are declared the wives of the god of the
sect to which they belong, and the priests of that
sect may then, without scandal, make use of them,
in the name and stead of the god whose ministers
they are. Those who are consecrated in this man­
ner in the sect of Vishnu have the name of Garuda-
Bassivy or women of Garuda, and bear upon their
breasts, as a mark of their dignity, an impression
of the form of Garuda, which is the bira conse­
crated to Vishnu. The priestesses of Siva are
known in public by the appellation of Linga-
Bassivy, or women of the Linga, and have the seal
of the Linga imprinted on the thigh, as the distinc­
tive badge of their profession. These women arc
held in honour in public by their own caste; al­
though in reality they be nothing better than the
prostitutes of the priests and other chiefs of the
sect.” 1
1 D escription o f the C haracter, M anners, an d C ustom s o f th e P eople
of India, 1817, pp. 71*4.
As comparatively recently as the beginning of the
nineteenth century there were no fewer than one hun­
dred prostitutes connected with the temple of Conjec-
varam.
That as recently as the beginning of the present cen­
tury temple prostitution still persisted in some form
there is ample evidence provided in the cases which
came before the Indian courts. Thurston1 cites a num­
ber of such cases, culled from current records, concern­
ing the activities of the Deva-dasis (handmaidens of
the gods), the name given to the dancing-girls attached
to the Tamil temples. During a case in the Madras
High Court, a witness stated “ there were forty danc-
ing-girls’ houses in the town (Adoni), that their chief
source of income was prostitution, and that the danc-
ing-girls, who have no daughters of their own, get girls
from others, bring them up, and eventually make them
dancing-girls or prostitutes.”2 In connexion with an­
other court case, “ the accused, a Madiga of the Bellary
district, dedicated his minor daughter as a Basavi by
a form of marriage with an idol. It transpired that
a Basavi “ practises promiscuous intercourse with
men.”3
It is important to note that these temple prostitutes of
India, as well as those connected with the idolatry of
ancient Egypt, Greece, etc., were not looked upon with
the disgust associated with the name prostitute in
modern Europe and America. They were “ brides of
God ” or “ slaves of the idol,” and were accorded a
degree of respect far in advance of anything given to
the ordinary female member of society. It was con­
ceded to be an honour to serve the gods in this way.
1 C astes a n d T rib es o f In d ia , Madras, 1909.
3 Quoted by Thurston from In dian Law R eports, Madras Series. XXIII,
1900.
* Ib id ., Vol. XV, 1892.
THE PHALLIC FACTOR IN SEXUAL PROMISCUITY 77
PIIALMC WORSHIP
7*
It is important, too, that Hindu sacred harlots, dedi­
cated to the temples, should not he confused with wor­
shippers who engaged in solitary acts or sporadic bouts
of promiscuity, such as I shall have occasion to refer
to when dealing with the rites of phallicism in India.
C H A P T E R V
THE CONNEXION BETWEEN
SERPENT-WORSHIP AN D PHALLICISM
i
Origin and Extent of Serpent-Worship
T h e r e is nothing to wonder at in the worship of the
serpent in primeval times. The serpent was a form of
life at once mysterious and awe-inspiring. Either of
these characteristics, in itself, was sufficient to excite
reverence. Nor is there anything to wonder at in the
association of the serpent with the generative and re­
productive processes. “ If there is any one point more
certain than another,” says Cox, " it is that wherever
tree and serpent-worship has been found, the cultus of
the phallus and the ship, of the linga and the yoni, in
connexion with the worship of the sun has been found
also. It is impossible to dispute the fact; and no ex­
planation can be accepted for one part of the cultus
which fails to explain the other.” 1
The serpent was observed to possess the power to cast
its skin periodically ancl to survive even after amputa­
tion, which gave rise to the idea of its rejuvenescence,
its continual re-birth, its everlasting life. Its capacity
for movement without the aid of feet or wings and its
1 G. W. Cox, T h e M y th o lo g y o f th e A rya n N ation$t Ix>ndo», 1870,
Vol. II, p. 127.
79
8o PHALLIC WORSHIP
remarkable powers of fascination, added to the element
of mystery. Indeed, in certain instances the serpent
was looked upon as a living symbol or representative of
the sun-god. In Egypt, a serpent, as “ the emblem of
immortality, always accompanies the image of
Osiris.” 1
Eusebius says that the ancient Persians all wor­
shipped the first principles under the form of serpents,
having dedicated to them temples in which they per­
formed sacrifices and held festivals and orgies, esteem­
ing them to be the greatest of gods and governors of
the universe. These first principles, or forces of good
and evil, personified in the deities Ormuzd and Ahri-
man, were represented in the form of two serpents
standing erect upon their tails, with their teeth fast­
ened upon the mundane egg, which was between
them, and over which both contended to secure the
mastery. In the Greek mysteries, the three most cele­
brated symbols were the phallus, the egg, and the ser­
pent, representing the active or generative, the passive,
and the destroying or eternally renewing principles.
In most primitive races, however, the serpent was
considered to be the re-embodiment of some dead per­
sonage. It was accordingly supposed to possess anthro­
pomorphic qualities, among which loomed largely wis­
dom of the highest order and the power to heal afflicted
humanity. Arising from these beliefs was the almost
universally accepted idea that the serpent was respon­
sible for the origin of man.
“ The universality of the Serpentine worship or
adoration no one can deny,” says Higgins. It is not
only found in all countries, but it everywhere occupies
an important station; and the farther back we go, the
1 L. M. Child. T h e Progress o f R elig iou s Ideas th rou g h Successive
A g es, New York, 1855.
SERPENT-WORSHIP AND PHALLICISM 8 l
more universally is it found, and the more important
it appears to have been considered.1
Taxilus, an Indian prince of the time of Alexander,
had a serpent of phenomenal size which he revered
as the living representative of a god which was equiva­
lent to Dionysus. This practice was no uncommon
one. The Athenians kept a snake in the temple of
Minerva to represent the presiding deity of the
Acropolis.
In Mexican mythology, according to Gama, the god­
dess Cihuacohuad, or Female Serpent, was believed to
have given birth, at the same time, to two children, one
male and the other female, which were responsible for
the origin of mankind.
The idol, Vitziliputzli, was invariably seated on an
azure-coloured chair, decorated at each corner with the
head of a serpent.
Pausanius says that in his time serpents were kept
for the purpose of adoration in the temple of ^scula-
pius at Epidaurus. The temple of the serpent deity
Erecthonios also contained a living snake. Clement
of Alexandria avers that a consecrated serpent was a
symbol of the god Bacchus. It was further the emblem
of the Egyptian god Kneph, of Thoth, and of
Hermes.
A winged disc between two hooded snakes was com­
monly sculptured over the porticoes of the ancient
Egyptian temples, signifying the sun with its two
attributes, motion ana life, on each side of it. The
coins of the Phoenicians and Carthaginians showed the
same symbols. In Scandinavian mythology, the god­
dess Isa often appeared between two serpents. In con­
nexion with the celebration of the mysteries of Jupiter
Sebazius, according to Arnobius, the initiated were con-
JGodfrey Higgins, A nacalypsis, p. 525.
F
82 PHALLIC WORSHIP
secrated by having a snake put down their bosoms.1
Helius, the Egyptian sun-god, married Ops, the serpent
deity, and became the father of Isis, Typhon, Apollo
and Venus.2
The serpent was the symbol of a large number of gods
and goddesses: Hermes, Ahriman, Thoth, Ophion,
Mercury, Pales, Aesculapius, Kolowissi, Harpocrates,
Dew, Cncph, Hoa, Pelops, Apap, Isis, and Jesus Christ.
Baal or Bel, Chaldean god supreme, was worshipped as
a serpent.
The ancient Hindus described the world as resting
upon a serpent which bites its own tail; the Phoenicians
entwine the folds of a serpent around the cosmic egg;3
Siva was sometimes represented with serpents coiled
around his body, the reptiles being considered to sym­
bolize immortal life; the Mohican tribe of North
American Indians refused to destroy a rattlesnake,
which they looked upon as their grandfather; the
Chinese considered the serpent to possess the power to
send rain upon the earth.
There are clear indications of the serpent-worship
which prevailed among the aborigines of North
America in various parts of the continent. Perhaps
the most noteworthy is the Serpent Mound near
Louden, Adams County, Ohio. The serpent, which
measures 1,254 feet in length from the tip of its upper
jaw to the extremity of its tail, has an average width of
20 feet, and a height of from 4 to 5 feet; is situated
upon a high cliff, and presents an extraordinary life­
like appearance.4
We have evidence of the worship of the serpent in
1 R. P. Knight, A n In qu iry in to th e S y m b olica l L anguage o f A n cien t
A rt and M y th o lo g y , 1818, p. 8.
* John Bathurst Deane, T h e W orship o f th e Serpent, 1830.
* James Gardner, F a ith s o f th e W orld, Vol. II, p. 840.
4 C en tu ry Illustra ted M o n th ly M agazine, New York, 1889-90.
IM.ATK VI
SIX FIGUKKS 1LLUSTKATIYK OF SYMBOLIC
SKKPKNT \VOKSHII\
From Inman, Ancient Faiths (1868).
[Face page 82.
I
the Bible. It was apparently introduced into Palestine
from Egypt. Moses, if not responsible for its introduc­
tion, was certainly responsible for the popularity of the
cult. It was essentially a healing and a virility cult.
The phallus, in its physical characteristics, says Cox,
suggested the form of a serpent, which thus became the
emblem of life and healing.1 In this capacity Moses
set up the brazen serpent in the wilderness, in response
to a command from God, that those of the Israelites who
were victims of the plague might be cured. As a result
of this seeming miracle, upon its pole the serpent re­
mained, to be worshipped for nearly eight hundred
years. Indeed, it was not until the reign of Hezekiah
that the idol, termed a mere piece of the brass by the
king, was destroyed, as stated in the second book of
Kings: “ He removed the high places, and brake the
images, and cut down the groves, and brake in pieces
the brazen serpent that Moses had made: for unto
those days the children of Israel did burn incense to
it; and he called it Nehushtan.”
Apparently every effort, through all these centuries,
to put down the worship of the serpent had failed dis­
mally. According to Bellamy,2the serpent, in both the
Egyptian and the Chaldee languages, was termed Oub;
but for purposes of their own, for which they offer no
explanation, the translators of the Old Testament have
rendered the word as “ familiar spirit.”3
At the time of Christ we find serpent-worship not un­
mixed with Christianity; in certain cases proving to be
a serious rival. According to Epiphanius and Tertul-
lian, the Ophites considered that Christ was the same
as the serpent. They are said to have kept a living
1 G. W. Cox, T h e M y th o lo g y o f th e A rya n N ations, Vol. II, p. 116.
* John Bellamy, T h e H istory o f a ll R eligion s, 1811.
* See the following passages: Leviticus xx. 27; 2 Kings xxi. 6;
2 Chronicles xxxiii. 6; 1 Samuel xxviii. 3, 7. 9.
SERPENT-WORSHIP AND PHALLICISM 83
PHALLIC WORSHIP
snake, which was allowed to crawl over the Sacramen­
tal bread that was partaken of in the Lord's Supper.
This reptile, before the ceremony terminated, was
kissed by each of the participants. Manes, one of the
great promulgators of Christianity in Persia, impressed
upon his followers that Jesus Christ was an incarnation
of the Great Serpent which glided over the cradle of the
Virgin Mary.
As evidence of the continued worship of the serpent
in comparatively recent times we have the testimony
of Dr. Cornish, who, writing in 1871, says:
“ In many places the living serpent is to this day
sought out and propitiated. About two years ago,
at Rajamandri, I came upon an old ant-hill by the
side of a public road, on which was placed a
modern stone representation of a cobra, and the
ground all around was stuck over with pieces of
wood carved very rudely in the shape of a snake.
These were the offerings left by devotees, at the
abode taken up by an old snake, who occasionally
would come out of his hole and feast on the milk,
eggs, and ghee left for him by his adorers. Around
this place I saw many women who had come to
make their prayers at the shrine. If they chanced
to see the cobra, I was assured that the omen was
to be interpreted favourably, and that their prayers
for progeny would be granted. There is a place
also near Vaisarpadi, close to Madras, in which the
worship of the living snake draws crowds of vota­
ries who make holiday excursions to the temple
(generally on Sundays) in the hope of seeing the
snakes which are preserved in the temple grounds;
and probably so long as the desire of offspring is
a leading characteristic of the Indian people, so
84
long will the worship of the serpent, or of all snake-
stones, be a popular cult.”1
In his comprehensive survey of the position of the
serpent in India, Vogel writes: “ In the whole of
Western and Southern India the cobra is worshipped
up to the present day by women who are desirous of
offspring,”* and again the same authority states: “ In
the whole of Southern India serpent-worship is preva­
lent.”3
The egg, in many instances, was associated with the
serpent. In the Bacchic mysteries it was consecrated
as the image of that which generated and contained
all things in itself. The serpent was considered to
possess the power of calling the egg into action. Thus
we sometimes find it coiled around the egg to express
the incubation of the vital spirit.4 In India it was cus­
tomary, as recently as the early nineteenth century, at
the religious festivals, for women to carry the Lingam
between two serpents. Similarly, the Greeks, at their
mystic processions, put a serpent into the sacred casket,
along with the phallus and an egg.5
SERPENT-WORSHIP AND PHALLICISM 85
n
The Serpent as the God of Evil
The fear and awe inspired by the serpent led to
some races worshipping it as an evil god, just as others
1 R eport o f th e C en su s o f th e M adras P residency (1871), Vol. I, pp.
105-6. Q u o ted in th e In dian A n tiq u a ry , January, 1875.
* J. Ph. Vogel, In dian Serpent-lore, or T h e N agas in H in d u le g e n d
an d A r t, Probsthain, London, 1926, p. 19.
* Ib id ., p. 170.
* R. P. Knight, A n In qu iry in to th e S y m b olica l L anguage o f A n cie n t
A r t an d M ythology.
86 PHALLIC WORSHIP
adored its wisdom and goodness. Thus while, as Hard­
wick suggests, in both the Old World and the New, as
the sun-god, the great mother of the human family,
and even the First Principle of all things, the serpent
was employed to symbolize the highest forms of being;
in many other nations it was looked upon as a personi­
fication of the Evil Principle.1
The recognition of the existence of two opposite or
contrasting forces, and similarly of the necessity for
their existence, seem to have been ecumenic in primi­
tive society. The Egyptians, among whom the obelisk
and the pyramid were most frequently employed in
such symbolical roles, held that there were two oppos-
ing powers in the world perpetually acting against each
other, the one, Osiris, generating, and the other, Ty-
phon, destroying. By the conflict between these two
forces, or deities, that mixture of good and evil, of
procreation and dissolution, which, it was contended,
brought about the harmony of the world, was supposed
to be produced. According to Plutarch, the idea of
such an essential mixture of reciprocal forces was of
immemorial antiquity, being derived from the earliest
thcologists and legislators, not only in traditions and
reports, but also in the mysteries and sacred rites, both
Greek and barbarian.2
Where the serpent was looked upon as an evil god
or devil, there was, of course, a conception of some
degree of hostility existing between the reptile deity
and the human race. Striking evidence of this belief
among the ancient Hindus is presented in the Mahab-
harata:
“ The young and beautiful Primadvara has been
affianced to the Brahman Ruru, but just before
1 James Gardner, F a ith s o f the W orld, Vol. II, p. 841.
* R. P. Knight, op. cit.
the celebration of their nuptials she is bitten by a
deadly serpent, and expires in agony. As tidings
of her death are carried round the neighbourhood,
the Brahmans and aged hermits flock together;
and encircling the corpse of the departed mingle
their tears with those of her disconsolate lover.
Ruru is himself made eloquent by grief; he pleads
the gentleness of his nature, and his dutiful obser­
vance of the laws of God, and finally, as the reward
of his superior merits, Primadvara is given back
to him; yet only with the sad condition that he
must surrender for her sake the half of his remain­
ing lifetime. If this legend will not altogether
1
‘ustify the supposition that a reference is intended
>
y it to the primitive pair of human beings, w'hose
existence was cut short by a disaster inflicted on
the woman by the serpent, it may serve at least
to show us how familiar was the Hindu mind with
such a representation, and how visions of the fall
of man had never ceased to flit with more or less
confusion across the memory of the ancient bards.”
SERPENT-WORSHIP AND PHALLICISM 87
in
The Serpent as an Erotic Symbol
In all countries and for many thousands of years the
serpent was generally acknowledged to be an emblem
of eroticism. The power of erection possessed by cer­
tain snakes was likened to the same power exhibited
by the male organ of generation. The Egyptian asp
and the Indian cobra, in particular, have the ability to
raise themselves erect at will. Both are emblematic,
says Inman, of male activity, and coverdy represent
88 PHALLIC WORSHIP
the phallus.1 Sexual power was often symbolized by
the serpent erect and entwining a rod or a Lingam.
Indeed, the rod of life, says Forlong, originated from
the fact that the sexual act in serpents was practised in
Ardanari-lswara. representing the hermaphroditic creative deity. Note
the triad and the serpent in the hand of the male section, and the
germinating seed in the hand of the female part; the whole standing
upon the lotus, symbol of androgynity. Of this deity, Professor Wilson
says: “ The supreme spirit in the act of creation became, by Voga, two*
fold. The right side was male, the left was Prakriti. She is of one
form with Brahma, she is Maya, eternal and imperishable, such is the
Spirit, such is the inherent energy (the Sacti) as the faculty of burning
is inherent in fire/'
From Inman's Ancient Faitht (t$6$)
1 Thomas Inman. A n cie n t F aiths.
SERPENT-WORSHIP AND PHALLICISM 89
erect formation.1 Hermes, the Greek god, was often
represented holding in his hand the caduceus, or ser­
pents in sexual congress.
In the case of the Hindu hermaphroditic deity, Ard-
anari-T 1 ' ‘ id the deity's
erotic t ^ , :rpent was the
phallus is proved by the Bible itself.” He further states
that “ the English translators used the word serpent
to cloak the true meaning.”2 The serpent in the
Garden of Eden is supposed to be symbolical of sexual
passion.3
In Hindu mythology, a snake is often found enclos­
ing the Lingam. In some southern temples, two erect
serpents have their heads together above the Lingam,
or they may appear on either side of it as if in an attitude
of worship. The suggestion, in every instance of the
conjunction of Lingam and serpent, is that the reptile
holds the subordinate position.4
Sir Monier-Williams, who has written extensively
on India, refers to the worship of the serpent in con­
junction with the Lingam. He mentions having often
seen images of serpents coiled round this symbol of
the male organ of generation, also five-headed snakes
forming a canopy over it.3 In reference to the temple
of Visvesvara, in Benares, he says: “ I noticed the coil
of a serpent carved round one or two of the most con­
spicuous symbols of male generative energy, and the
combination appeared to me very significant and in­
structive.”*
1 Major-General J. G. R. Forlong, Rivers of Life, Quaritch, London.
1883, Vol. I, p. 223.
* J. B. Hannay, Christianity: The Sources of its Teaching and Sym­
bolism, 1913. p. 13.
* O. A. Wall, Sex and Sex Worship, Kimpton, London, 1920, p. 540.
4 Hannay, op. cit., p. 177.
4Religious Thought and Life in India, Murray, 1883, p. 327.
4Ibid., p. 439.
arm emblems of
90 PHALLIC WORSHIP
The daily prayers addressed to Vishnu and Siva
“ associated the serpent with these deities in some rela­
tion.” 1 and arc closely associated with the worship of
the Lingam, the one form of worship acting and re­
acting upon the other. The principal seats of both
Lingam and serpent-worship were originally in the
mountains, and from thence extended to the plains.2
Snakes in the act of congress have a peculiar phallic
significance. Dr. C. E. Balfour, in a letter published
1Journal o f the B om bay B ranch o f th e R oyal A sia tic S ociety, Bombay,
1877, Vol. IX.
* Ibid.
SERPENT-WORSHIP AND PHALLICISM 9 1
in Fergusson’s Tree and Serpent Worship (1873) refers
to this very point. He says:
“ I have only once seen living snakes in the
form of the Esculapian rod. It was at Ahmed-
niiggar, in 1841, on a clear moonlight night. They
dropped into the garden from the thatched roof
of my house, and stood erect. They were all
cobras, and no one could have seen them without
at once recognizing that they were in congress.
Natives of India consider that it is most fortu­
nate to witness serpents so engaged, and believe
that if a person can throw a cloth at the pair so as
to touch them with it, the material becomes a
representative form of Lakshini, of the highest
virtue, and is preserved as such.”
HINDU VONI WITH SERPENT
“ There has always been a curious connexion be­
tween snakes and intercourse,” we read in The Ocean
of Story (Vol. II, p. 307). Apropos of this, J. H. Rivett-
Carnac, in an article “ Rough Notes on the Snake Sym­
bol in India ” (Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society,
Bengal, 1879), referring to certain paintings in Nagpur,
says: “ the positions of the women with the snakes were
of the most indecent description and left no doubt
92 PHALLIC WORSHIP
that, so far as the idea represented in these sketches
was concerned, the cobra was regarded as the phallus "l
(quoted in The Ocean of Story, translated by C. H.
Tawncy, Vol. II, p. 307).
Hannay points out that the serpent-worship of Rome
continued in a flourishing state until the time of Con­
stantine, and contends that the phallicism which was
its most significant feature is
“ shown by the fact that, in the grove of the
Dodona Jove, the virgins had to approach the
sacred serpent, with its food, in a state of absolute
nudity, this creating the bisexual symbol, and its
manner of taking the food was the oracle on which
they judged of the prosperity of the coming year.
But the significant fact is the juxtaposition of the
nude female and the serpent forming the Lingam-
Yoni or bisexual combination.”2
According to Fergusson, serpent shrines were every­
where. The Roman virgins proved their chastity by
offering food to the sacred serpent of the Argonian
Juno, on the grove of the temple of Argiva. Accep­
tance of this food was a certain indication of virginity
and fertility.3
1 While I do not doubt that, in many cases, the representation of the
serpent and the phallus in close proximity or even engaged in inter­
course, was strongly suggestive of the phallic clement in religion, I
would point out that it is easy to draw wrong inferences from such
pictures or from other references, pictorial, statutorial or otherwise, con­
cerning the act of coitus with animals. Such representations may have
been concerned with sexual perversion per se, unaccompanied by any
religious or phallic significance. Thus the practice of Macedonian
women allowing snakes to suck their breasts, referred to by Lucian was
probably an instance of sexual perversion devoid of any phallic signifi­
cance or implications.
3Hannay, op. cit., p. 89.
3Ibid .
C H A P T E R VI
THE RELATION OF W ITCHCRAFT TO
PHALLICISM
i
The Worship of the Devil
T he conception of an invisible world of spirits was an
inevitable growth in the mind of primitive man, and,
as we have seen, the anthropomorphic or theriomorphic
character of these spirits was similarly inevitable. The
idea of a legion of good or beneficial spirits presided
over by a good and beneficent god; and, on the other
hand, of a legion of demons or evil spirits presided over
by an evil god or chieftain, was a not unnatural notion,
which seems to have existed in a great many races and
countries at approximately the same time.
The origin of the idea of Satan would appear to have
been inextricably mixed up with the origin of the idea
of good and evil, of light and darkness, of creation and
destruction. There is evidence that this concept of an
evil spirit being responsible for storms and other up­
heavals of nature persisted for centuries after the com­
ing of civilization. Baring-Gould mentions that it was
customary for German artists, in the year 1600, to
delineate crops being destroyed in a thunderstorm by a
dragon with fiery tongue and gnashing teeth swooping
down upon the corn.
The devil was personified both as man and as animal,
93
94 PHALLIC WORSHIP
and occasionally as half-man and half-animal. Thus
the horned god of the devil-worshippers, which pre­
ceded and for centuries was contemporary with Chris­
tianity. The witches of the Middle Ages swore to their
god having the body of a man and the cloven foot of a
goat. In various pagan religions the bull and the goat
were associated with the devil and devil-worship. In
the Hebrew and Mohammedan religions the pig1 and
the serpent held similar associations.
Much of the Bible deals with the eternal and never-
ending struggle between Yahweh and the devil, be­
tween good and evil. The story goes that originally
Satan, then an angel (later to become the devil), resided
in heaven with God. Satan, jealous of God's power,
desired equality, if nothing more. There was a quarrel
which resulted in war. Here let us refer to the Biblical
text:
“ And there was war in heaven: Michael and his
angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon
fought and his angels, and prevailed not; neither
was their place found any more in heaven. And
the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent,
called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the
whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and
his angels were cast out with him.” (Revelation
xii. 7-9.)
The result of the struggle and subsequent banish­
ment of Satan was the setting up of the rival and in­
dependent organization of hell, over which the devil and
his horde of fallen angels, or demons, as they were now
called, reigned. The aim of Satan was to tempt man-
1The pig was an early pagan god, and thus, to the Christians and
Mohammedans, became a devil.
kind, by all manner of crafty promises, into wickedness
and sin.
Part and parcel of the belief in the existence of the
devil and the acknowledgment of his power, was the
contiguous and auxiliary belief that he could be pressed
into the service of mankind by means of various magical
procedures known to the sorcerers and particularly to
those whose lives were dedicated to his service.
Parallel myths respecting the existence of evil spirits
and demons, with a presiding deity, were to be found
in almost every religious cult before and contempor­
aneous with Christianity. The devil of Christianity was
practically a simulacrum of the gods of evil of the
ancient Greek, Egyptian, Persian, and Hebrew religions.
Inevitably it followed from the concept of a heaven
populated by angels, closely associated with the sun
and light, that there should be created in the mind of
primitive man the concept of an abode of evil, peopled
by demons, and closely associated with darkness and
death. In those days, the earth was thought to be flat
and the abode of evil was conceived to be under or
inside the earth. It was given the name of hell, and
was presided over by Satan, Lucifer, Belial, the Serpent,
or the Devil, as the deity was variously referred to. In
pagan faiths this presiding deity was Mercury, Dis, Srv,
Python, Ahriman, Triglaf, et al. According to the
doctrine of Manichaeanism, Lucifer made Adam and
Eve, and committed fornication with Eve, thus pro­
ducing Cain and Abel.
The conviction on the part of all the inhabitants of
the world at that time, from the highest to the lowest,
that Satan and his demons were in possession of powers
only one whit less removed in respect of the miraculous
than those wielded by Yahweh himself, led to efforts
being made to secure the goodwill of the Devil as well
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PHALLICISM 95
PHALLIC WORSHIP
as the favours of God. This worship of the Devil
flourished side by side with the worship of God. And
just as God had his priests and priestesses, so too the
Devil had his priests and priestesses, only in this case
they were called by other names.
As a concomitant of the belief in the existence of the
Devil and a horde of demons, there arose the hypothesis
that most illnesses were caused by these agencies. The
cases where maladies were God's punishment for sin
were relatively few in comparison with those resulting
from demoniacal possession.
In the Old and New Testaments we find the idea that
all disease was due to sin and to demoniac possession
constantly reiterated. It must be remembered that in
those days, and during the early years of Christianity,
there was little or no medical knowledge. More and
further medical studies were frowned upon by the
Church. The only recognized healer was God, and the
only methods of healing which were admitted, were
prayer and exorcism. Prayer was for the intervention
of God; exorcism was to drive out the evil spirits.
Ancient writers were unanimous in their assertions
that demons caused all manner of diseases. Demon-
ritus, Homer, Plutarch, Aristophanes, Plato, Demos­
thenes, Hesiod, Pythagorus, Dinarchus, Empedocles:
all subscribed to the belief. Alone among the ancients,
Hippocrates believed in and had the courage to advance
a theory concerning the physical causes of certain
diseases.1 But the fathers of the Church would have
none of it. They had at him with every ecclesiastical
weapon of offence they could muster. They forbid,
under pain of dire penalties, anyone other than a priest
1 Like all medical writers of his day, and for centuries after, Hippo­
crates believed that all diseases of which he had no knowledge were
due to supernatural agencies, in other words to the machinations of
gods and devils.
96
ordained by God, to attempt the treatment of the sick.
Origen, St. Augustine, Tertullian, St. Ambrose, St.
Bernard, and others of their ilk, thundered their de­
nunciations and threats.
Nothing in the books comprising the New Testament
stands out more prominently than the belief in the
presence of devils being the cause of disease. It crops
up again and again. Christ's tour through the land was
punctuated with the healing of the sick by the casting
out of devils. There was Mary called Magdalene out
of whom Jesus cast seven devils;1 there was the crooked
woman who had carried her infirmity for eighteen long
years and whom Christ healed;2 there was the healing
of the woman of Canaan's daughter who was vexed
with a devil;3 there was the casting out of the devil
from a dumb man;'1 there was the rebuking and exor­
cism of a devil from a lunatic boy.3
Many of the evil spirits, according to the mythology
of the day, were those of rebellious angels who had been
hounded out of heaven by Yahweh and his satellites.
They found means of entry into men, women, and
children, through the ears, along with food and drink,
and through the nose in the process of breathing. On
occasion the demons entered into animals. Their
powder to do this is indicated in the Biblical story of the
entry of two thousand devils (unclean spirits) into a
herd of swine.
In the early centuries of Christianity— in fact until
the Reformation— it was universally admitted by the
Church that every child was possessed by an evil spirit
at birth, and until baptism this evil spirit continued to
“ possess'' the child, working its evil deeds. All females
1 Luke viii. 2. 3Matthew ix. 22-3.
a Luke xiii. 11-16. 4Matthew ix. 32.
8Matthew xvii. 14-18.
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PHALLICISM 97
G
9 $ PHALLIC WORSHIP
were thought to be in the grip of demons during their
menstrual periods, at the time of marriage, and during
parturition. The firmness of this belief is seen in the
universal practice, among primitive and savage races,
of segregating menstruating women, and of the insist­
ence m the Bible of their unclcanness.
According to the doctrines of the ancient Zoroastrian
religion menstruation was an outpouring of evil for
which the god Ahriman was alone responsible. The
woman, at such times, was possessed by a demon, and
the discharge was not only evil in itself but dangerous
to every person with whom it came into contact. Hence
the treatment of the woman during her periods as
something akin to a leper. These pagan doctrines were
subsequently embraced by Christianity.
Similarly the blood accompanying defloration was
considered to be evil and defiling, and was responsible
for the belief that only a holy man or one protected by
supernatural agencies could rupture the hymenal mem­
brane with impunity (ef. p, (y i). The woman after
parturition, and also her child, were both possessed by
demons and unclean; hence their purification by
“ churching ” of the woman and baptism of the
infant.
Apart from devil-worship in its true form, where the
devil was actually the god, there arc numerous instances
where, among primitive tribes, the devils have to be
propitiated alongside and in exactly the same way as
the gods. In India the devil-dance which is a feature
of the Bants, a harvest festival held in October or
November, ranks as just such a propitiatory rite. Its
phallic character, too, is obvious. “ A t a big meeting
near Mangalore,” says Thurston, “ the two leading
dcvil-dancers were dressed up in masks, and coat ana
trousers of blue mission cloth, and one had the genitalia
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PHALLICISM 99
represented by a long piece of blue cloth tipped with
red, and enormous testes.” 1
u
Phallic Rites Associated with the WitchesySabbath
The followers of the Devil believed that Lucifer, the
god of Satanism, besides being the opponent of Yah-
weh, was also his equal. Reversing the concepts of the
Hebrews, and, later, of the Christians, they subscribed
to the doctrine that Lucifer personified everything that
was good and beneficial, while Yahweh or Adonai
personified all that was harmful and evil. At all times,
and in all countries, the deities of rival religions have
been looked upon as devils. The Hebrews, and later
the Christians, conceived every deity other than Yah­
weh to be a devil. “ The stone that was Jacob’s pillow,”
says O’Neill, “ and that he set up and oiled (see p. 137),
and called an El-container, is the same of which the
messenger of the Elohim in Genesis xxxi. 13 says of
Am : ‘ l am the god of the Bcth-cl that you consecrated
with oiling.’ ”2
In the early days of Christianity, the Jews, who re­
fused to admit the divine conception of Jesus, looked
upon the risen Christ as a devil. Those who confessed
to the possession of familiar spirits were accused of con­
ferring with the Devil; thus Socrates.
The witches of medievalism, like the idolaters of
paganism, did not look upon their chief as an evil
spirit, but as a god. The votaries of this (according to
Christian nomenclature) Devil of the pagans wor­
shipped their deity as a god. The solidified witchcraft
1 Castes and Tribes of India, Madras. 1909, Vol. I, p 160.
1 The Night of the Gods, London, 1893, p. 115.
IOO PIIALMC WORSHIP
of the Middle Ages merely took the place of the an­
cestor worship of paganism, as this had ousted the sun-
and serpent-worship of barbarism. In its turn, witch­
craft has given way to what is known as modern Spirit­
ualism.
According to Lord Coke: “ A witch is a person who
hath conference with the Devil, to consult with him or
to do some act; and any person proved to have had such
conferences was thus convicted of a capital offence and
sentenced accordingly.” It will be noted there is no
mention of the results of such conferences or acts on
the part of the witch. The very fact, in itself, that the
woman does not worship the Christian god is evidence
that she is in conference with the Devil, and any truck
with the Devil is, ipso facto, with evil intent. It was
for this reason that, in the witch-persecuting days, so
many individuals of both sexes who performed magic
rites to do good to their fellow beings, were accused of
witchcraft and punished by imprisonment or death.
Witchcraft was just as much a religion as Christi­
anity, or Mohammedism. It had its god, its spirits of
the dead, its ritual, its sacrifices. Originally and funda­
mentally a phallic cult, its observances were mixed up
with a good deal of promiscuous fornication, as is evi­
dent from the reports of the witch trials.
Nothing in connexion with witchcraft achieved such
notoriety as the Witches’ Sabbath, mainly owing to the
fact that it was at this festival that was celebrated the
infamous Black Mass. The Sabbath was really a
gathering of the witches and wizards of the whole dis­
trict or community. It was equivalent to a gathering
of the worshippers of God in the local church, except
that these worshippers who gathered together at the
Sabbath were making their obeisances to Satan and the
meeting-place was some secluded spot under the stars
PLAT
1
-
:
MI
[Face page 100.
in
k
w
i
t
c
h
k
s
'
s
a
b
i
u
t
h
.
(After
Pc
l.anav,
See
text
page
too.
«
t
I
I
*
*
I
l
** • « •
]
. ■* •
• T
- * \
1
1 . I
I
« I
c I A
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PHALLICISM IOI
of heaven. For the Sabbath was held in the dead of
night. It commenced at the stroke of midnight, and
usually the ceremonies continued until cock’s crow.
The meeting was presided over either by Satan in
person, in the form of a goat or a cat or other animal,
or by someone representing Satan. As the wizards and
This illustration, which foimcd the frontispiece
of an early seventeenth century ballad entitled
“ The Mad Merry Prank of Robin Goodfellow,”
represents, says the anonymous author of An
Essay on the Worship of the Generative Powers
during the Middle Ages of Europe (1865),
Priapus as goat-shaped, “ with his attributes
strongly pronounced and surrounded by a
circle of worshippers.” Priapus appears here
“ in the character assumed by the demon at
the Sabbath of the Witches.”
witches arrived at the rendezvous they made their
obeisances, kissing the presiding devil and the attend­
ant demons on various parts of the body, but usually
on the posteriors. On almost every occasion there was
a witches’ cauldron, and it was around this cauldron,
with its evil-smelling contents, that the worshippers
danced. The devil-worship of the Middle Ages, as Miss
Murray has pointed out, was essentially a joyful re­
102 PHALLIC WORSHIP
ligion.1 In this respect it differed greatly from the
ascetism and misogyny of Christianity. Like the pagan
gnostic cult, it was imbued with the spirit of rank hedo­
nism, and it was this feature, more perhaps than any
other, which was primarily responsible for witchcraft
proving so keen a rival of Christianity, and, as time
went on, threatening to displace the newer faith in
popularity as well as power.
At every Sabbath there was much dancing of a sexu­
ally stimulating nature, with drug-taking and anoint­
ing. The dancing usually concluded with those sexual
orgies which distinguished the cult of Satan. These, in
turn, were followed by a banquet, marked features of
which were heavy drinking and gluttonous eating.
Everything points to the Sabbath being a duplication
of the Pnapcia, Liberalia, and Dionysia of ancient
Rome and Greece.
m
Phallicism and the Evil Eye
We read in Proverbs: “ Eat thou not the bread of
him that hath an evil eye:” an indication of the anti­
quity of the belief in the power of this curse,3 a belief
which is by no means unknown to-day. Not alone the
Jews of antiquity, but the Romans, the Egyptians, the
Greeks, the Babylonians; they all dreaded the evil eye.
They dreaded its effects upon themselves, upon the
various members of their family, upon their domestic
animals, and even upon their crops.
Dwarfs, hunchbacks, albinos, those afflicted with
various physical deformities, and especially those ex-
1 M. A. Murray, The Witch-Cult in Western Europe, Oxford, 1911.
3 See also Dent, xxviii. 54.
hibiting eye affections, such as strabismus, ophthalmia,
and nictitation, were held to possess the evil eye. The
power might be consciously or unconsciously applied,
but applied it was irrespective of the individual’s
wishes. In addition, certain sorcerers, witches, and
other consorts of the Devil, although possessed of no
myopic or other outward deformity, were considered
to exert some terrible influence by merely glancing at
their victims.
But the actual concept of the evil eye goes much
deeper, and in its basic interpretation is inextricably
mixed up with demonism. Its root cause was supposed
to be jealousy on the part of the demons and certain
less fortunate individuals at the success or good luck
of rivals or contemporaries. The demons might work
their spite through intangible channels or through the
medium of certain individuals who themselves might
be innocent possessors of the evil eye. Usually these
individuals exhibited some abnormal characteristic
which warned others of their power, but, occasionally,
no such outward indication was visible, hence the need
for precautions against the curse at all times and in all
circumstances.
It was perfectly natural that there should come into
being many measures for warding off the evil eye and
for overcoming its powers. It was generally accepted
that the power of this form of magic to work its fell
will was definitely limited to the first onslaught; thus
the secret of any prophylactic measure lay in its ability
to divert the evil eye from anyone likely to fall under
its spell, and in this way abort or destroy its influence.
To the primitive mind nothing was more likely to do
this than something bizarre, or unusual, and especially
unusual in the sense of being taboo.
“ Everything that was ridiculous and obscene,” says
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PHALLICISM IO3
104 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Dodwell,“ was supposed to be inimical to the malignant
influence of fascination by the oddness of the sight.” 1
The ancients, however, saw nothing indecent in the use
of such means to combat evil. The male and female
LEADEN PHALLIC EMBLEMS
contained in the Forgcnis Collection of Plombs Historiqucs
From Davenport's Aphrodisiacs (1869)
genitalia had achieved a prophylactic reputation of the
highest possible order, and the images or representa­
tions of these organs were considered to be of remark­
able efficacy. The phallus, in particular, suggested it-
1 A Classical and Topographical Tour Through Greece, 1819.
PI.ATI-;
VIII
u.
/
'J
. w
h'ttee page jo.j.
SYMHOLS
ILLU
STRATING
PH
ALLIC
W
ORSH
IP
SA
C
K
IF
1
CK
TO
P
K
1
APUS.
IN
AXCILN
T
KGYI'T.
..
..
.
„
.
.
.
...
,
,
.
1
-rom
Kapom,
Reciteil
de
Pierres
Antiques
Oravees
From
Davenport,
Aphrodisiacs
(Home.
17SO).
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PHALLICISM 105
self as the most potent of all, and was followed by
other objects bearing a real or imaginary analogy to
the idea it conveyed.1
In certain cases the exhibition of the phallus as a
means of combating the effects of the evil eye assumed
a realistic aspect, as in the baring of the genitals, and
there can be little doubt that among some races, and on
specific occasions, nudity was practised with this precise
object in view. Pliny tells us that ghosts and demons
could be exorcised by the simple expedient of a woman
stripping herself to the buff. Also the same reason may
have been behind many cases of so-called exhibitionism
in more recent times.
From this, we reach the use of statues with erect
phalli, and the exhibition of pictorial representations
concerned with nudity and sexual indecencies. Any
representations of the phallus and its appendages,
whether actual or symbolical, seem to have been looked
upon with the strongest favour. Thus the depiction of
a phallus upon the exterior walls of houses in Pompeii,
with the inscription: Hie habitat felicitas?
We see instances of this use of phallic delineations on
the Abraxas1
2
3*of ancient Egypt. A remarkable example
of these phallic gems (depicted on p. 106) is taken from
Montfaucon’s Antiquity Explained (1721). It is, says
this authoritative work, “ from the cabinet of M.
Foucault, and the most extraordinary of any we have
seen.” The gem measures 5 inches by 3 inches, and is
made of a black Egyptian stone called Basaltes.
“ On the upper part of it is an oblong that
terminates at the top in a Pediment, not unlike the
1 C. W. King. The Gnostics, London, 1864, p. n6n.
2Article in Hastings’ Encyclopxdia of Religion and Ethics, Vol. Ill,
P- 436-
* Abraxas are gems hearing cabalistic words intended to act as charms.
io6 PHALLIC WORSHIP
frontispiece of a little temple. In this Pediment is
the name la o x and underneath another name not
very legible, perhaps broixao: lower still is a ser­
pent describing an oval figure, in which are certain
letters and a star, and below the serpent the name
(For description see text)
Abrasax, under which is another word not legible.
At the right and left of this kind of frontispiece
are two apes lifting up their hands towards the
name lao, which they seem to look on with venera­
tion : strange worship, that is paid by Apes!
* lao was identical with Jehovah.
Under the frontispiece is a man of a very rude
form, with his head loaded with Egyptian orna­
ments, and having the wings and tail of a bird. In
his right hand he holds a scorpion by the tail, and
in the left a staff or sceptre: But all this is magick,
and consequently impenetrable, except by the
like art. In this image are also seen an Osiris, a
monster with serpentine legs, a lion, a crescent,
another animal, an Isis upon a Lotus, and some
birds.”
Similarly, the most popular of the amulets worn as a
protection against the evil eye were of phallic import.
Any such amulet was called a fascinum, probably after
the Roman lascivious god Fascinus. Indeed Lucian
affirms that Priapus himself was sometimes referred to
as Fascinus. According to Pliny, the satyrica signa
(phallus) was used to protect gardens and houses against
the evil intentions of the envious; and Pollux informs us
that blacksmiths were in the habit of erecting phalli
upon or near their forges with a similar objective. The
natives of central Borneo, says Nieuwennuis (Central
Borneo, I, 146), believe that the exhibition of images of
the sexual organs will drive away evil spirits. To this
end representations of human phalli are carved upon
the exterior timbers of their dwelling places.1
“ The vast antiquity of the phallic necklace can be
easily demonstrated,” says Elworthy. “ It was very
ancient even in the days of Horace and Varro; and it
may be that the Romans got their fascinum from
Egypt.”2
These phallic figures are frequently found in Italy (cf.
p. 250). They are usually made of bronze. Apart from
1 F. T. Elworthy, The Evil Eye, Murray, 1895.
3 W. G. Sumner, Folkways, p. 446.
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PHALLICISM IO7
io8 PHALLIC WORSHIP
those which arc representations of the membrum virile,
there arc many in the form of a hand which is closed
with the thumb protruding between the fore and middle
fingers. There are grounds for the supposition that this
represented the digitus infamis,l which was supposed to
be inimical to the evil eye.2
Many of these phallic amulets are to be found in the
more celebrated museums of Europe. An exceedingly
fine collection is that at Naples, but that of the British
Museum is perhaps the most complete of all.
Inman has pointed out that the idea of a sight of the
Yoni being a source of health, and a charm against evil
spirits, however grotesque it may appear to be, has ex­
isted in all ages, and in civilized and savage nations
alike. Rude images of women shamelessly exposing
themselves have been found over the doors of churches
in Ireland; and at Scrvatos, in Spain, there is the image
of such a female standing on one side of the doorway,
and an equally conspicuous man on the other. The
same type of statues have been found in Mexico, in
Peru, and in North America. Nor must we forget how
Baubo cured the intense grief of Ceres by exposing her­
self in a strange fashion to the distressed goddess. This
goddess, according to the account given by Arnobius,
was miserable in consequence of her daughter Proser­
pine having been kidnapped by Pluto. In her agony,
snatching two Etna-lighted torches, she wandered round
the earth in search of the lost one, and in due course
1 “ The middle finger of either hand, which among the ancients had
a phallic connotation. Martial, Seneca and others mention that the
middle finger fully extended and held upright represented the peris,
the closed fingers and thumb on each side signifying the testicles.
According to Juvenal, male prostitutes used the infamis digitus as a
signmark of their trade. The scratching of their heads with their
middle fingers constituted an invitation. Also termed lewd finger."—
Scott's Encyclopedia of Sex, Werner Laurie, London. 1939.
- Edward Dodwcll. op. cit., Vol. II, p. 34
PLATK
IX
[F a ce pa ge 108.
>a
i r -
i
«
ii"
/
%
.V
4
t
«
<
,
/
:. I
i J
* •
*»
.1
a
»
r
a
«
•4
. -a .
«
i
visited Eleusis. Baubo received her hospitably, but
nothing that the hostess could do induced the guest to
depose her grief for a moment. In despair the mortal
bethought her of a scheme, shaved off what is called
in Isaiah “ the hair of the feet,” and then exposed her­
self to the goddess. Ceres fixed her eye upon the de­
nuded spot, and pleased with the strange form of con­
solation, consented to take food, and was restored to
comfort.1
The ancient Romans, almost without exception, wore
in plain view, on their persons, amulets and charms of
phallic form; and when marching into battle the soldiers
carried on their standards similar phallic symbols.
Even children had phallic emblems hung upon their
bodies and attached to their dress. Also symbols of the
female organs of generation were commonly employed,
drawings of the vulva being placed over the doors of the
houses as protective agents. So widespread were these
practices that there is scarcely a nation of antiquity
whose heraldry did not show many examples of depic­
tions of both the male and female genitalia. To the
same end, according to the Jewish Encyclopaedia,
obscene gestures and words were employed.
The universality of phallic worship and the widely
divergent nature of the images used as prophylactic and
protective agents against the evil eye and its analogues,
are indicated in tne following passage from Lewis’s
Origines Hebrxx (1734):
“ The Hebrews had not only their idols upon
hills and mountains, but they worshipped a sort of
Penates which they placed sometimes behind the
doors of their private houses, and adored as
1 Thomas Inman. Ancient Pagan and Modern Christian Symbolism,
Liverpool, 1869, p. 67.
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PHALLICISM IO9
I 10 PHALLIC WORSHIP
domestic deities. And the prophet Hosea charges
the Israelites with going a whoring after the gods
they had set up in their corn-floors, and in their
wine-presses; in short, there was scarce a private
room, or a highway, or a corner of a street, where
there was not some idolatrous image, which in the
wicked times of their government was set up by
profane princes and persons in order to destroy the
established religion, and corrupt the devotion of
the people. The effigies likewise of some god was
engraven and worn in rings, in the nature of
amulets, in which they vainly fancied there was
some power to preserve them from mischief or
misfortune. Maimonides mentions such idolatrous
rings as were utterly unlawful to be used, and
vessels marked with the image of the sun, the
moon, or Dagon, which were accounted symbols of
Divinity among the heathens.”
The crescent, representing the female organ or Yoni
and indicating the moon-goddess, was in common use
as a means of warding off evil. The horseshoe was a
form of the crescent, and judging by the number of
horseshoes one sees nailed over and behind doors, and
in various other places, is still believed to have some
mysterious power, even though its original object and
symbolism have been forgotten.I
V
IV
Incubi and Snccubi
Analogous with the widespread belief in gods having
progeny born of virgins was a belief in the Devil possess­
ing the same power. Just as nuns in the Christian con-
vents were prepared to swear that Christ had visited
them and had carnal connexion in the night, so were
the witches prepared to swear that the Devil had like­
wise visited them in their beds. Such confessions were
common features of the witchcraft trials which were
held throughout Europe during the Middle Ages. Even
as recently as 1645, one Ellen Driver, a witch residing
at Framlingham, Suffolk, stated on oath that the Devil
lived with her for three years, had sexual intercourse
with her regularly, and that she gave birth to two
children by him.
The attestations of the various witches confessing
having been the recipients of the Devil’s favours varied
in details. In many and in fact most cases, evidence
was to the effect that the Devil appeared in the form
of a man, often a man with cloven feet. In other cases,
the Devil appeared in the semblance of a goat. In yet
others as a clog, a cat, or other animal. It was further
admitted and presumed that the Devil did not always
appear in person. Often he allotted the task to some
inferior demon. Further, the Devil and his disciples,
by virtue of their supernatural powers, were able to en­
large the scope of their activities. Men were not safe
from molestation, the demons often assuming female
form and having intercourse with them. These spirits
were known as succubi.
According to Matthew Paris, the child of a demon
was bom to a woman in Herefordshire in 1249. In six
months the boy infant was as tall as a normal youth of
seventeen years, and possessed a full set of teeth.1
It should be noted that such beliefs were not re­
stricted to ignorant peasants. Nor were they restricted
to those practising witchcraft. The most noted theolo­
gians and philosophers of the age were well-nigh un-
1G. L. Kitircdge, Witchcraft in Old and fo'exv England, p.
RELATION OF WITCHCRAFT TO PIIALLICISM I ! I
117.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
of Sicyon was thought to have conceived through inter­
course with a serpent god.1
1 Sir J. G. Frazer, Adonis, Attis, Osiris, third edition, Macmillan, 1914-
The belief in intercourse between human beings and animals resulting
in progeny was common in antiquity and has even survived to the present
day. VVc arc given two such cases by Plutarch: a marc and a shc-ass
both giving birth to offspring after copulation with men.
There arc grounds for the supposition that bestiality, where it was
practised on an extensive or a racial scale, owed its development, if not
its origin, to the worship of animals: thus the goat-worship of the
ancient Egyptians, and the Satanism of the Middle Ages. In many cases,
of course, religion was an excuse or a mask for the practice of bestiality,
as it has been, and still is. for indulgence in other sexual perversions.
1 1 4
P A R T I I
THE DIFFUSION OF PHALLIC WORSHIP
AND THE CHARACTER OF ITS
CEREMONIES AND SYMBOLISM
t t 'I
1
0
C H A P T E R V I I
PHALLICISM IN THE RELIGIONS OF SAVAGE
AN D PRIMITIVE RACES
i
The Savage as a Phallic Worshipper
T h e worship of sex interpolates the religious beliefs,
however crude and vague they may be, of all savage
tribes and primitive races. Our knowledge of the older
races shows that “ the life-giving and vivifying prin­
ciple of nature has been always symbolized by the
human organs of generation.” 1 The doctrine of the
active and passive principles of nature, “ symbolized
as the sun and the moon, or the sun and the earth, was
recognized in the mythological systems of America.”2
Naturally, owing to the marked limitations of lan­
guage in most of these nations and tribes, there is not
available any vast amount of documentary material
illustrative of this existent phallicism. There is, how­
ever, sufficient to give clear indications of its uni­
versality.
Whether the religion is polytheistic or monotheistic,
anthropomorphic or theriomorphic, the main object of
the savage is to please the god or gods whom he wor­
ships, and to this end the adoration of the phallus, as
the instrument of sex with which he is most familiar, is
1 H. H. Bancroft, op. cit., Vo!. Ill, p. 501.
* E. G. Squier, The Serpent Symbol, New York, 1851, p. 38.
117
1 18 PHALLIC WORSHIP
of paramount importance. It does not matter whether
the object of a religious rite, ceremony or festival is to
induce the god to bless the tribe with plentiful supplies
of food, or to preserve it from evils and dangers, the
worship of the sexual organs is recognized as most
likely to please the deity. If an angry god is to be
appeased, the same measure is taken. Genital develop­
ment, being prized in man, is similarly prized in the
god, and it is not unnaturally held that this god, by
virtue of his extraordinary power, will be vested with
sexual virility far in excess of anything possessed by
mere man. Hence, in all visualizations of god, and in
all images or statues dedicated to him, he is given an
enormous sexual member.
The fertility rites so common in primitive races were
inaugurated with the express object of pleasing the god
and thus inducing him to bless his worshippers with
animal and vegetable food in generous quantities. The
buffalo-dance of the Sioux tribe of North American
Indians, so vividlv described bv Catlin, was a rite of this
nature. Buffalo meat formed the main food of the
tribe.
“ The chief actors were eight men, with the
entire skins of buffaloes thrown over them, en­
abling them closely to imitate the appearance and
motions of those animals. As the bodies of the
dancers were kept in a horizontal position, the
horns and tails of the animals remaining on the
skins, the skins of the animals’ heads served as
masks, through the eyes of which the dancers were
looking. The eight men were all naked, their
bodies, limbs, and faces being everywhere covered
with black, red, or white paint. Each joint was
marked with two white rings, one within the other,
RELIGIONS OF SAVAGE AND PRIMITIVE RACES 1 19
even to the joints in the under-jaw, the fingers and
the toes; and the abdomens were painted to repre­
sent the face of an infant, the navel representing
its mouth. Each one of these characters also had
a lock of buffalo's hair tied around the ankles, in
his right hand a rattle, and a slender staff six feet
in length in the other; and carried on his back,
above the buffalo skin, a bundle of willow boughs,
of the ordinary size of a bundle of wheat. These
eight men representing eight buffalo bulls, being
divided into four pairs, took their positions on the
Ark or ‘ Big Canoe,’ representing thereby the four
cardinal points; and between each couple of these,
with his back turned to the 4Big Canoe,’ was
another figure engaged in the same dance, keep­
ing step with the eight buffalo bulls, with a staff
in one hand and a rattle in the other; and being
four in number, answered again to the four cardi­
nal points. The bodies of these four men were also
entirely naked, with the exception of beautiful
kilts of eagles’ quills and ermine, and head-dresses
made of the same materials. Two of these figures
were painted jet black with charcoal and grease,
whom they called the nightf and the numerous
white spots dotted over their bodies and limbs
they called stars. The other two, who were painted
from head to foot as red as vermilion could make
them, with white stripes up and down over their
bodies and limbs, were called the morning rays
(symbols of day). These twelve were the only
figures actually engaged in the Bull dance, which
was each time repeated in the same manner with­
out any apparent variation.”
While this strange ceremony was proceeding, four
120 PHALLIC W ORSHIP
old men were beating upon sacks containing water, and
chanting prayers addressed to the Great Spirit, implor­
ing him to supply the tribe with buffaloes during the
coming year. The final dance took place on the fourth
day of the proceedings, and in the midst of it there
appeared on the scene a strange and frightful character,
called O-ke-hee-de (the owl or evil spirit).
“ His body was painted jet black with pulverized
charcoal ana grease, with rings of white clay over
his limbs and body. Indentations of white, like
huge teeth, surrounded his mouth, and white rings
surrounded his eyes. In his two hands he carried
a sort of wand— a slender rod of eight feet in
length, with a red ball at the end of it, which he
slid about upon the ground as he ran.”
Although Catlin observes the utmost delicacy in his
description of and references to this ceremony, there
can be little doubt as to its essentially phallic character.
There are the symbolical delineations of night and day,
of the stars, of the fertility deities, and in the conclud­
ing dance the figure carrying a representation of an
enormous phallus. Finally an old woman snatches this
symbol from the dancer’s grasp, and breaks it across
her knees, an action which signifies the loss, by O-ke-
hee-de, of all his power. The woman now claims that
she holds the power of creation, and also the power of
life and death over them; that she is the father of all
the buffaloes, and that she can make them come or stay
away, as she pleases.1
According to Professor Gerard Troost, of Nashville,
Tennessee, the primitive inhabitants of that State were
idolaters and probably worshipped the phallus. He
says:
1 Geo. Catlin, O-kee-pa, London, 1867, pp. *3 tt $eq.
RELIGIONS OF SAVAGE AND PRIM ITIVE RACES 1 2 1
“ I have had the good fortune to obtain, during
my investigations, several images, which no doubt
must have served for religious purposes; they have
all, at least such as were not too much mutilated,
some similarity in their position; they are all in a
kneeling position, sitting on their heels, and naked.
Some of them have their hands around their ab­
domen; others have their hands on their knees.
Two of them, a male and a female, are the largest
I have seen, being sixteen inches high; they
were found in Smith County, of sandstone, and of
rude sculpture. The male seems to be a rude imi­
tation of an ancient Priapus; he is more or less
injured by the plough by which he was brought to
light, ana which has broken a large metnbrum
generationis virile in erectione; the marks of the
plough are yet visible. The person who ploughed
it up mentioned that it possessed this member, but
he considered it too indelicate to be preserved. It
is not the onlv instance that this pars genitalia has
been found.” *
Bourke mentions a phallic shrine near the Moqui
village of Mushangnewy, in Arizona;1
2and according to
the Abbe Brasseur de Bourbourg, at Colhuacan, a town
on the Gulf of California, phallic symbols were at one
time extremely prevalent.
Although, as we have seen, in the early stages of
man’s evolution, neither the connexion between the
coital act and pregnancy, nor the part played by the
male in the birth of children was apparent, childbirth
was looked upon as a divine blessing, and women made
1 Transactions of the American Ethnological Society, Vol. I, p. 361,
quoted by E. G. Squicr, The Serpent Symbol, 1851.
2 The Snake Dance of the Moquis of Arizona, 1884.
122 PHALLIC WORSHIP
every effort to placate and honour their god in the hope
that he would bless them with fertility. To this end,
images and representations of the phallus were promi­
nently displayed wherever the people gathered to wor­
ship their gods. In other instances, the act of coitus
itself was pictured in carving or sculpture. Not alone
in the temples and churches were these phallic objects
to be found. They were placed in all parts of the vil­
lages, even in the huts of the inhabitants, or carried
about upon their persons. In Java, says Hartland, at one
time an ithyphallic deity was worshipped by the Ulisiwa
tribe. The god was represented by a man-sized idol.1
According to the same authority, phallic idols made of
clay and embellished with feathers, were (in 1917) still
employed as fetishes by the Bayanzi tribe inhabiting
the eastern bank of the Knilm river, Congo Free State.2
The ancient Peruvians worshipped their gods in the
form of stones.3 So, too, to this day do the aborigines
in the Fiji Islands, presenting food to the gods, who
are supposed to reside in the sacred stones.4 The Aztec
fertility god Xopancale was represented by a pillar. In
the Mexican town of Panuco, says Garcilaso ae la Vega
(Histoire de los Incas, Chapter VI), the temples and
public squares contained not only representations of
the genitalia, but bas-reliefs of men and women in the
act of sexual congress;5 and at Tlascala, the coital act
was venerated under the phallic symbol representing
jointly the male and female genital organs. In Yuca­
tan, in Laguna de Terminos, Grijalva came across
representations of “ men committing acts of indcscrib-
1 See article on “ Phallicism,” Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics,
19*7.
3 Ibid.
3 Skinner, Present State of Peru, p. 259.
4Lord Avebury, Origin of Civilization, Longmans, Green & Co.,
London, 1911.
3H. H. Bancroft, op. cit
1
’I.ATK
X
[I:ace page 122.
tiy
courtesy
of
The
Wellcome
Historical
Mc.tira!
Miseum.]
A
M
'
l
K
N
l
'
I
'
KKI
V
I
A
N
I
'
HAL
I
.
K
'
LOTS.
In
the
Collection
of
The
W
ellcome
Historical
M
edical
M
useum
,
London.
I
<
■
•I
t i
RELIGIONS OF SAVAGE AND PRIMITIVE RACES 123
able beastliness.” 1 Similarly, says Stephens, “ in Yuca­
tan the ornaments upon the external cornice of several
large buildings actually consisted of membra conjuncta
in coitu, too plainly sculptured to be misunderstood.”2
A feature of every New Hebridean village, says the
author of Untrodden Fields of Anthropology, is what is
termed the Tam-tam. It consists or the trunk of a
large tree, carved in the image of a human body, bear­
ing an enormous member. The trunk is hollowed, and
on being beaten with a heavy stick, emits a drum-like
sound. In Ceylon the Tamil venerates the phallus,
which the women look upon as the emblem of life.3
Among the people of Mowat it is customary for the
victor in battle to wear upon his person the sexual
member of his opponent, as a means of increasing
virility and strength.'1 Dulaure tells us that the natives
of Hayti (since called St. Domingo) were devout phallic
orship is particularly pronounced in the
African State of Dahomey. Richard Burton gives a
most interesting account of his observations in that
country. He writes:
“ Amongst all barbarians whose primal want is
progeny,3 we observe a greater or a less develop­
ment of the phallic worship. In Dahomey it is
uncomfortably prominent; every street from Why-
dah to the capital is adorned with the symbol, and
the old ones are not removed. The Dahoman
>ibid., Vol. Ill, p. 505.
9H. H. Bancroft, op. tit.
9Dr. Jacobus X----- , Untrodden Fields of Anthropology, Paris, 1898,
V O I. I , D. 9 3 .
4E. Crawley, The Mystic Rose, Macmillan, 1902, Vol. I, p. 140.
$ I believe that here Burton is in error in attributing phallic worship
to the desire for progeny. I have gone at some length into my reasons
for disagreeing with this popular theory in another place (sec pp. 46-71.
1-4 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Priapus is a clay figure of any size between a giant
and a pigmy, crouched upon the ground as if con­
templating its own attributes. The head is some­
times a wooden block rudely carved, more often
dried mud, and the eyes and teeth are supplied by
cowries. A huge penis, like the section of a broom­
stick, rudely carved as the Japanese articles which
I have lately been permitted to inspect, projects
horizontally from the middle. I could have carried
off a donkey’s load had I been aware of the rapidly
rising value of phallic specimens amongst the col­
lectors of Europe. The Tree of Life is anointed
with palm-oil, which drips into a pot or a shard
placed below it, and the would-be mother of chil­
dren prays that the great god Legba will make her
fertile. Female Lcgbas are rare, about one to a
dozen males. They are, if possible, more hideous
and gorilla-like than those of the other sex; their
breasts resemble the halves of German sausages,
and the external labia, which are adored by being
anointed with oil, arc painfully developed. There
is another phallic god named Bo, the guardian
of warriors and the protector of markets.” 1
According to the Abbe B. de Bourbourg, the Allig-
hewas, the Algonquins, the Iroquois, and the Mandans
were all phallic worshippers. In Nicaragua and in
Costa Rica, says Bancroft, idols with huge erect phalli
have been found. Similarly, though not so universally,
the female genitalia have been worshipped. In New
Holland, Australia, the aborigines, during their spring
festival, shout and sing, as they dance around a pit
which is “ so dug and decorated with bushes as to repre-
1 Richard F. Burton, Memoirs of the Anthropological Society ot
London, 1865. Vol. I, article X, p. 320.
sent the private parts of a female; as they dance they
carry the spear before them to simulate priapus; every
gesture is obscene.”1
In tribes where no ideas of modesty such as are
current in civilized society have arisen, there is no con­
cept of obscenity in connexion with exposure of the
genital organs or even with the performance of the sex
act itself. Any taboo is concerned not with the sight
of the reproductive parts, but with the touching of them
by unauthorized persons. Thus during the shaving or
depilation of the male sex organs of the Pamil coolies
of Malabar, it is customary for the barber “ to insert the
penis into a hollow piece of bamboo, which he holds
and uses as a handle; he is not allowed to touch the
sacred organ.”2
According to Cook, coitus was performed publicly.
Thus:
RELIGIONS OF SAVAGE AND PRIMITIVE RACES 125
“ A young man, near six feet high, performed
the rites of Venus with a little girl about eleven or
twelve years of age, before several of our people,
and a great number of the natives, without the least
sense of its being indecent or improper, but, as
appeared, in perfect conformity to the custom of
the place. Among the spectators were several
women of superior rank, particularly Oberea, who
may properly be said to have assisted at the
ceremony, for they gave instructions to the girl how
to perform her part, which, young as she was, she
did not seem much to stand in need of.”3
A t religious festivals, fertility rites, and on other
* Transactions of the Ethnological Society of London, Vol. Ill (New
Series), 1865, p. 330.
* Untrodden Fields of Anthropology, Vo). II, p. 364.
4 Hawkesworth’s Voyages, London, 1773. Vol. II, p. 128.
126 PHALLIC WORSHIP
specific occasions, every particle of restraint is thrown
aside, the celebrations usually ending in orgies of de­
bauchery, licentiousness, and promiscuity. In Yucatan,
says Bancroft, at the annual festival held in honour of
the three goddesses, Xochiquetzal, Xochitecatl, and
Tlazolteotl, “ prostitutes and young men addicted to
sodomy were allowed to solicit in the public streets.” 1
Bacchanalian orgies and promiscuity often accompany
the dances of the Pueblo Indians. According to Ken­
dall, the annual feast of the Kercs is celebrated near a
cave which, at night, is in a state of inky blackness.
Into this cave, after the coming of darkness, adults of
both sexes repair.2 Although the Indians on the Shingu
river, Brazil, arc usually almost or completely nude,
when engaged in dancing they wear clothing, upon the
outside of which they wear artificial phalli of exagger­
ated size.3
Phallic figures and images, including the most shame­
less representations of the male and female genitalia,
have been found in almost every part of the world.
The inhabitants of the Marianne Islands carry a
phallus, named Tinas, in procession at their religious
festivals. In Yucatan, according to Stephens, phallic
pillars are to be seen in front of the temples. At the
ruins called " Cassa del Gobernador,” he tells us that
“ near the centre of the platform, at a distance of
eighty feet from the foot of the steps, is a square
enclosure consisting of two layers of stones, in
which stands, in an oblong position, as if falling,
or perhaps as if an effort had been made to throw
it down, a large round stone, measuring eight feet
1 H. H. Bancroft, op. cit.
* Ibid
* Sumner, op cit.
above the ground and five feet in diameter. This
stone is striking for its uncouth and irregular pro­
portions, and wants conformity with the regularity
and symmetry of all around. From its conspicuous
position, it doubtless had some important use, and
in connexion with other monuments found at this
place induces the belief that it was connected with
the ceremonial rites of ancient worship known to
have existed among all Eastern nations.” 1
Bancroft tells us that “ on Zapatcro Island, around
Lake Nicaragua, and in Costa Rica, a number of idols
have been found of which the disproportionately large
membrum generationis virile in erectione was the most
prominent feature.”2 In Java the phallus and the
female pudenda are both worshipped.’* At the time of
Cortez, said one of his companions, “ in certain
countries, and particularly at Panuco, they adore the
phallus, and it is preserved in the temples.” In Hayti,
says Artaud, phalli have been found; also in Peru; and
at Tlascala both male and female genitals are objects
of worship.4
According to Johnston, “ probably nowhere is the
phallus so openly and universally worshipped as about
Stanley Pool. In the forests there are strange temples
of thatch and wood containing the phallic symbol.
This worship is, as far as I know, conducted without
any really obscene ceremonies, and is a subject of simple
reverence in the natives* eyes.”5
1J. L. Stephens, Incidents of Travel in Yucatan, London, 1843, Vol. I,
p. 181.
* H. H. Bancroft, op. cit., Vol. Ill, p. 506.
* Thomas Stamford Raffles, The History of Java, 1817.
4 H. M. Westropp, Ancient Symbol Worship, second edition, New
York, 1875, P-
4 H. H. Johnston, Journal of the Anthropological Institute, 1884, Vol.
XIII, p. 473-
RELIGIONS OF SAVAGE AND PRIMITIVE RACES 127
128 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Even to-day phallic worship is predominant among
the faiths of primitive and savage races. There are
signs of the phallicism inherent in the religion of the
Maoris in the manner of decorating the rafters of their
sacred houses with representations of the male and
female genitalia. The reason for this practice, accord­
ing to Mrs. Rout, is that “ the reproductive organs are
considered by the Maoris to be the ribs of the Human
House— in other words, that the human race is carried
and supported on the reproductive organs just as a house
is carried and supported by the rafters.” 1
In Western Africa there are many indications of
phallicism, and phallic statues and objects are used in
much the same way that priapi were employed in
ancient Rome, Egypt and Japan. W. B. Scabrook men­
tions seeing such symbols near a stockade: “ at the
right of the entrance stood a brave little wooden man
with an enormous phallus painted red, and at its left
a little wooden woman with an equally emphasized
vagina.”2
n
The Place of Initiatory Rites in Phallicism
Staniland Wake has drawn attention to the signifi­
cance of the arrival of puberty in relation to the
generative act. This significance is exemplified in the
religious rites peculiar to the coming of puberty in both
sexes.
There are grounds for assuming that the various
forms of mutilation practised upon the male and female
genitals were, in some instances, induced as a form of
1 Maori Symbolism. p. 205.
9Jungle Ways, Harrap, 1931, p. 54.
RELIGIONS OF SAVAGE AND PRIMITIVE RACES 129
sacrifice calculated to appease or solace the god of the
tribe. It is true that in certain tribes such mutilations
existed as forms of punishment/ independent of and
contemporaneous with their use as a sacrificial rite.
Punishment of offenders and enemies and sacrifice have
always been co-existent in primitive sociology. In any
society wherein the religious modes demanded sacrifice
on the part of the individual in addition to and inde­
pendent of total sacrifice in the shape of the execution
of animals and selected humans, the mutilation of the
genitals appealed to the people as an eminently satis­
factory means of offering a part of the body which
would be most appreciated by the deity. Trusen, in
his examination of the origin of circumcision, avers
that in rabbinical writings there is a clear indication
that “ the same effect is ascribed to the blood of circum­
cision as to the blood of sacrifice.”2 The rite of circum­
cision, in its inception at any rate, may be looked upon
as an offering by the male worshipper of a part of his
most prized possession, the phallus. In this respect it
signified unequivocably his worship of the phallus itself.
The transforming of the practice into a religious rite
commanded by the god of the Israelites, as stated in
Genesis, was merely an attempt, on the part of the
theologians, to disguise phallicism under another name
or to subvert its true implication.
Although the often suggested hygienic origin of cir­
cumcision seems to be based upon the most dubious
evidence, it is possible that in certain circumstances,
particularly in cases of phimosis, the presence of the1
1 For a detailed examination of the relation of castration to punish­
ment see my work, The History of Torture Throughout the Ages,
Werner Laurie, 1940.
* Quoted by Felix Bryk in Circumcision in Man and Woman, trans­
lated by David Berger, American Ethnological Press, New York, 1934,
p. in .
I
foreskin, through its interference with erection and
coition, may have led to its extirpation. It is no doubt
to some such cases that Strabo refers when he says “ its
object was to take from the symbol of Osins (the
phallus) the pretended obstacle to fecundity; an
obstacle which bore the seal of Typhon, ‘ whose
nature,’ says Plutarch, ‘ is made up of all that hinders,
opposes, and causes obstruction/ ”
There is, too, the possibility that the patriarchate of
the Jewish religion had something to do with the origin
and practice of circumcision, an explanation which
Hannay seems to have considered, for he says “ the
Jewish Nabi’s religion was a strongly right-handed
cult, worshipping only the male emblem; . . . while
surrounding nations emasculated their priests or made
them wear women’s dress, so as to imitate the double
sex of the creator, just as is done at the present day by
making the priests of Rome wear a woman’s ‘ frock ’,
after taking their vows of celibacy.” 1
There is one other conceivable explanation for the
origin of circumcision which, so far as I am aware,
seems to have been entirely overlooked. In primitive
society putrefaction of any kind was indicative of the
fact that the destructive or evil element in nature was
in active operation. As Payne Knight has pointed
out,1
2 the same kind of superstition which turned so
many operations of nature into objects of devotion,
consecrated any process of putrefaction to the personi­
fication of the destroying power. While the destructive
clement was avoided, it was at the same time respected,
and worshipped; the more so as it was recognized to be
an essential opposing element in the existent cos­
1 J. B. Hannay, op. cit., p. 220.
2R. Payne Knight, An Inquiry into the Symbolical Language of
Ancient Art and Mythology, 1818.
13O PHALLIC WORSHIP
mogony (see p. 49). Thus the sun was supposed to be
both generative and destructive, and was therefore wor­
shipped under complementary names, signifying its
two opposed attributes, e.g. Apollo and Dionysus. In
view of this, it would appear as a not unreasonable
hypothesis that the rite of circumcision may, in some
cases, if not in all, originally have evolved as a form of
sacrifice to the destructive principle. The tendency to
putrefaction occurring through the presence of smegma
under the prepuce, could not fail to be observed, and
would inevitably, from the offensive odour given off, be
associated with the influence of the destructive prin­
ciple or element.
The phallic nature of the rite is further evidenced in
the custom, mentioned by Palacio, which is in vogue
at Cezori, in Honduras, of offering blood secured from
circumcised boys to the stone idol Icelaca.1 In Nica­
ragua it is customary to regard maize which has been
sprinkled with genital blood as “ sacred food.”2
In connexion with girls, the puberty rites which are
analogous to circumcision and other mutilations of the
male genitals, have similarly a phallic origin. Win-
wood Readc, referring to these female initiatory pro­
cedures, says that the ceremonies were carried out in
strict secrecy, but through the admissions made by one
of the natives in his employ, he came to the conclusion
that “ these rites, like those of the Bona Dea, are essen­
tially of a phallic nature.”3
Burton contends that the fact that in most cases
where male circumcision is practised there is an analo­
gous female rite suggests the reason for such mutila­
tions of the female genitals.
1 H. H. Bancroft, op. cit.
a Ibid.
9 Savage Africa, 1863, p. 246.
RELIGIONS OF SAVAGE AND PRIMITIVE RACES 131
132 PHALLIC WORSHIP
“ Almost all the world over, where man is cir­
cumcised, the woman is subjected either, as in
Egypt, to mutilation of the clitoris, performed in
early infancy, when that part is prominent, or as
in the Somal and the Upper Nilotic tribes, des­
cribed by M. Werne, to mutilation combined with
excision of the nymphsc and fibulation, the woun­
ded surfaces being roughly stitched together. The
reason of such mutilation is evident. Removal of
the prepuce blunts the sensitiveness of the glans
penis, and protracts the art of Venus, which Afri­
cans and Asiatics ever strive, even by charms and
medicines, to lengthen.”
Were the clitoris not reduced to a similar condition,
it is further affirmed, too frequent occurrence of the
venereal orgasm would injure the health of the
woman.1
1 Richard F. Burton, Memoirs of the Anthropological Society of
London, Vol. I, 1865.
C H A P T E R VIII
PHALLICISM IN THE BIBLE
i
Yahweh and Contemporary Phallic Gods
T he Old Testament furnishes abundant evidence re­
specting the extent of phallic worship among the Israel­
ites, the Phoenicians, the Canaanites, the Assyrians and
other pagan races. Joshua told the Israelites that their
fathers worshipped other gods.1 Abraham seems to
have deserted a rival god for the worship of Yahweh,2
and forthwith we find him attempting to introduce the
rites connected with the adoration of his old deity, in
other words he continued to worship the phallic prin­
ciples under the name of Yahweh instead of Baal,
erecting pillars,3and making human sacrifices/ Others
besides Abraham adopted these tactics, introducing
various pagan rites to the Israelites. There were thus
many gods worshipped by the Hebrews. Of the truth
of this there are indications in the denunciations of
Jeremiah: “ According to the number of thy cities
were thy gods, O Judah, and according to the number
of the streets of Jerusalem have ye set up altars to that
shameful thing, even altars to burn incense to Baal/*
J Joshua xxiv. 2.
* Joshua xxiv. 3.
5 Genesis xxi. 33.
4Leviticus xxvii. 28*29.
>33
*34 PHALLIC WORSHIP
To Baal-Pcor,1 the phallic God of the Moabites and
Midianites, human sacrifices were offered, and the
priests who superintended these sacrificial rites indulged
in cannibalistic orgies. Baal, says Inman, means “ My
Lord the opener,” and Pcor signifies “ the opening of
the maiden's hymen.”2 Thus Baal-Pcor claimed from
man the sacrifice of circumcision and from woman the
sacrifice of her maidenhead.
The Hebrews considered this god to be no other than
Priapus himself, and in secret they vied with their
pagan contemporaries in worshipping him. The name
Baal-Pcor, says Iarchi, was given to the god because
his followers “ distended their posteriors before him
and offered to him the deposit while the female wor­
shippers of the idol uncovered the mans veneris before
it. In Syria, says St. Jerome, the image of Baal-Pcor
iding
,cwis
from its mouth. Referring
says:
had a phallus protri
to this same deity, I
“ The constant tradition among the ancient and
modern Hebrews was that this idol was an obscene
deity, whose figure, and the manner of worshipping
it, was filthy and abominable. This opinion is
supposed to be founded upon the words of the
prophet Hosea (‘ They went to Baal-Peor, and
separated themselves unto that shame; and their
abominations were according as they loved ’):
from whence they collect, that this god was served
by an obscene act, which required his worshippers
to be uncovered before him. The adoration, says
Maimonides, made to this idol called Pehor, con­
sisted of discovering the secret parts before it. The
law therefore commanded the priests to wear
• Also called Baal-Phcgor, BanLPchor and Bccl-Phcgor.
2 Thomas Inman. Ancient Faiths, 1868, Vol. !, p. 325.
PHALUCISM IN THE BIBLE
drawers when they sacrificed, and forbade them to
get up to the altar by steps, lest their nakedness
should happen to be uncovered/'1
There is further indication of the phallic nature of
the whole religious system of the Jews in the reference
to the different earths which composed the body of the
androgynous Adam. From the revelations of the Rabbi
Acha (Gemara Sanhedrim, Chapter XXX) there are
grounds for the supposition that the Jews were not un­
acquainted with the mysteries of Elcusis.
Yahweh, the god of the Hebrews, was himself a phal­
lic deity, the rite of circumcision in itself indicating
his real nature. In Exodus we read how Zipporah cast
at the feet of the angry Yahweh the bloody foreskin
of her son as a form of appeasement. Like Baal-Pcor,
Yahweh was referred to as “ the opener," thus: “ And
God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her,
and opened her womb." The frequency with which
Yahweh was represented in the form of a bull, and
commonly referred to as the “ Bull of Israel" is an­
other indication of his phallic origin.
The worship of Ashtoreth, the Phoenician and
Sidonian goddess of fertility and queen of the heavens,
was similarly characterized by phallic rites and sexual
orgies. Higgins suggests that the continual denuncia­
tion, by Jeremiah and others, of any such worship, re­
veals the determination of the Israelites to conceal this
doctrine.2 From this attitude it seems obvious that the
Jews, like the Persians, and certain Hindu sects, ac­
knowledged and worshipped publicly, whatever they
did in private, the male principle, or at any rate the
androgynous (male-predominating) concept only.
1 Thomas I-ewis, Origincs Hcbr.xx, 1734. Book V, Chap. 15, p. 71
•Godfrey Higgins, Anacalypsis.
>35
PHALLIC WORSHIP
The deification of either the male or the female prin­
ciple may be affirmed from the abominations of Sodom,
the pitura of the Syrian Venus, or the worship of Baal-
Pchor, as exhibited in the matter of Zimri and Cozbi,
recorded in the twenty-fifth chapter of Numbers. It
was the practice of idolatry of this kind which consti­
tuted a portion of the abominations of the degenerate
Israelites and aroused the intense anger of Yahweh.
Similarly Ahab made a grove1 which he placed in the
temple of the house of Baal. So, too, did Maachah,
mother of Asa, much to that august personage’s dis­
gust, for he burnt the idol by the brook Kidron.
136
n
Phallic Symbolism in the Old Testament
Joshua worshipped a pillar at Shechcm; Solomon
paid homage to a stone at Gibeon.1
23 In fact there was
stone or pillar worship everywhere throughout Pales­
tine until Hezekiah began his campaign of destruction.
In the twenty-eighth chapter of Genesis we have the
full story of the worship of a pillar by Jacob. Its sig­
nificance in connexion with the phallic worship of that
age is such that I reproduce the account here.
“ And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went
toward Haran. And he lighted upon a certain
place, and tarried there all night, because the sun
was set; and he took of the stones of that place,
and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that
place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold a
1 It is evident that this reference (mistranslated grove) was to an idol.
Ahab could not make trees. Sec also t Kings xv. 13.
3 i Kings iii. 4.
PHALUCISM IN THE BIBLE 13 7
ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it
reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God
ascending and descending on it. And behold, the
Lord stood above it, and said, I am the Lord God of
Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the
land whereon thou best, to thee will I give it, and to
thy seed; and thy seed shall be as the dust of the
earth; and thou shah spread abroad to the west, and
to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and
in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the
earth be blessed. And behold, I am with thee,
and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest,
and will bring thee again into this land; for I will
not leave thee, until I have done that which I have
spoken to thee of. And Jacob awaked out of his
sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place,
and I knew it not. And he was afraid, and said,
How dreadful is this place! this is none other but
the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took
the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set
it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.
And he called the name of that place Beth-el; but
the name of that city was called Luz at the first.
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be
with me, and will keep me in this way that I go,
and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put
on, so that I come again to my father's house in
peace; then shall the Lord be my God: and this
stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be
God’s house: and of all that thou shalt give me I
will surely give the tenth unto thee.”
Apropos of Jacob’s vision, and of the worship of
stones in general, Lewis says:
‘ 38 PHALLIC WORSHIP
“ The most ancient monuments of idolatry
among the Gentiles were consecrated pillars, or
columns, which the Hebrews were forbidden to
erect, as objects of divine homage and adoration.
These were rude stones without the representation
of men or any other creatures, and may signify
any other work, an altar for instance, set up for
sacred purposes, and the exercise of religious rites.
The sovereign celestial gods were worshipped in
the sun, moon and stars, wherein they were
thought to dwell, but the petty deities, the demons,
were at first adored in plain simple columns, in
which, after a solemn dedication, they were sup­
posed to keep their residence. The practice is con­
ceived to arise from an imitation of Jacob, who
took a stone and set it up for a pillar, as a monu­
ment of the divine mercy to him, and to preserve
the memory of the vision which he had seen. This
stone was held in great veneration in future times,
and by the Jews removed to Jerusalem; after the
destruction of which, by Titus, they were indulged
(upon that day when it was taken, which was the
only day they were permitted to come together)
with great lamentation and expressions of sorrow,
to go anoint the stone. From the word Bethel, the
place where the pillar was erected, came the word
Baetylia among the heathen, which signified rude
stones, which they worshipped, either as symbols
of divinity, or as true gods animated by some
heavenly power.” 1
It will be noted that Lewis, in common with many
other authorities, stresses the point that the laws of
Yahweh denounced the worship of pillars. It is per-
1 Thomas I*wi$, op. cit.. Book V, Chap. 4, p. 24.
PHALLICISM IN THE BIBLE 139
haps to be expected that the very fact of Moses for­
bidding the erection of fresh pillars and ordering the
destruction of existing ones, should have been taken as
an indication that phallic worship, in so far as con­
cerned its expression in the worship of stones, was vir­
tually extinct. This, however, was by no means the
case. The cult of Yahweh, as I have already shown,
was itself phallic. What Moses was inveighing against
was the worship of pillars representing alien or rival
deities.* It was not that Yahweh objected to being sym­
bolized and worshipped in the form of a stone himself.
There is evidence tnat before any general condemna­
tion of pillar-worship was voiced by Moses, it had been
customary for God to appear to his people in the form
of a pillar or an upright stone or statue. Thus we read
in Exodus:
“ And it came to pass, as Moses entered the
tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended, and stood
at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked
with Moses. And all the people saw the cloudy
pillar stand at the tabernacle door: and all the
people rose up and worshipped, every man in his
tent-door/'
Yahweh was everywhere represented by images
which were man-like in outline. They were of various
sizes, ranging from statues many times the height of
man himself to small idols which could be exhibited in
dwelling-houses. There were, too, miniature affairs
* This Is plainly indicated in the passage in chapter xii of Deuter­
onomy : 4
4Ye shall utterly destroy all the places wherein the nations
which ye shall possess served their gods, upon the high mountains, and
upon the hills, and under every green tree: and ye shall overthrow their
altars, and break their pillars, and burn their groves with fire; and ye
shall hew down the graven images of their gods, and destroy the names
of them out of that place. Ye shall not do so unto the Lord your God.”
See also Deut. iv. 15*16; Leviticus xxvi. 1.
140 PHALLIC WORSHIP
capable of being attached to one’s person or carried in
one’s pocket. All these images possessed, in compari­
son with their size, enormous phalli. In many cases,
and for obvious reasons, the representations were, as
Lewis remarks, more or less symbolical, usually in the
form of an upright post or statue, hence the reference
to them in the scriptures as “ pillars.” It does not, how­
ever, follow that in every instance where the word
“ pillar ” is used in the Old Testament, a literal inter­
pretation is justifiable. The translators of the original
script, in accordance with the general principle
adopted, had no compunction in taking gross liberties
with the text, and there is evidence that, in many cases,
these “ pillars ” were phallic statues of a type which
could leave no one in the slightest doubt as to their
character and significance.
An examination of the sculpture of the Hebrews, as
well as of other races, reveals the existence of great varia­
tions in the extent of the phallic character of the many
representations of the deities which were exhibited. In
some instances no attempt was made to delineate with
any pretensions to exactitude the accepted appearance
of the particular god in question. A rough outline was
considered sufficient; the inevitable sexual appendage
did the rest. Gradually, with the extension of sym­
bolism, even this was left to the imagination. Thus it
came about that an upright post or stone of any des­
cription was symbolical of the deity or even of the
phallus.
The word stone or rock, as used in the Old Testa­
ment, was a mode of referring to Yahweh. The indica­
tions are as numerous as they are decisive.
“ Of the rock that begat thee thou art unmind­
ful.” (Deut. xxxii. 18.)
PHALLICiSM IN THE BIBLE 1 4 !
“ Where are their gods, their rock in whom they
trusted.” (Deut. xxxii. 37.)
“ And Joshua wrote these words in the book of
the law of God, and took a great stone, and set it
up there under an oak, that was by the sanctuary
or the Lord.” (Joshua xxiv. 26.)
“ For who is God, save the Lord? and who is a
rock, save our God? ” (2 Samuel xxii. 32.)
*
*The Lord is my Rock.” (Psalm xviii. 2.)
“ To shew that the Lord is upright: he is my
rock.” (Psalm xcii. 15.)
“ O come, let us sing unto the Lord: let us make
a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation.” (Psalm
xcv. 1.)
In view of the fact that, owing to this growing sym­
bolism, it was difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish
between the idols erected by the worshippers of Yah-
weh and those erected by the devotees of pagan deities,
it is to be expected that there was much confusion.
Indeed, there are indications, as in the book of Hosea,1
that on occasion the Hebrews failed to differentiate
between their tribal god Yahweh and the pagan deity
Baal. There is, too, the fact that owing to the attrac­
tiveness exercised by the forbidden, the pagan deities,
notably Baal and Ashtoreth, secured a good deal of
surreptitious worship. Thus Solomon worshipped
Baal, Chemosh and Molech, sacrificing to the lot of
them.
It is to be noted that, in accordance with the beliefs
1 Hosea ii. 16.
* The deity referred to in the Bible as Baal was the god of the Hamttes
and Ethiopians, and a contemporary of Yahweh. Baal was merely one
of the names this god was known by. In Egypt he was referred to as
Osiris and Iswara; in Syria as Moloch and Adonis; in Rome as Hercules;
in India, first as Mahadeva and later as Siva; in Greece as Dionysus.
142 PHALLIC WORSHIP
of the day, the pillar, rock or stone, whether it reached
the elaboration of an actual statue replete with all the
attributes which anthropomorphism granted to the
reigning deity, or remained nothing more than a mere
upright stone, a gibbous rock, or a wooden pillar, be­
came a living entity. Each worshipper conceived that
the deity actually lived in the image or emblem, which
possessed the power of hearing what was said, of seeing
what took place, and even, on occasion, of speaking to
the worshippers. In other words, the image, graven
or otherwise, possessed all the powers and faculties
attributed to the particular god whose representative
it was thought to be. Thus we read in Joshua:
wBehold, this stone shall be a witness unto us;
for it hath heard all the words of the Lord which
he spake unto us; it shall be therefore a witness
unto you, lest ye deny your God.”
It was but natural that the adoration for the male
phallus should be extended to its visible appendages.
Apropos of which Inman says:
“ If the organ was reverenced at all, everything
connected with it would receive attention. Its
condition would be considered as a gauge of the
amount of favour in which the individual was held
by the Almighty, and everything which seemed
to increase its prosperity would receive honour,
esteem and reverence.” 1
One of the prevailing biological theories of the time
was that the right testicle contained seed capable of
producing males and the left testicle contained seed
which would produce females. The Assyrians named
1 Thomas Inman, loc. cii., Vol. I, p. Son.
PHALLICISM IN THE BIBLE *43
the penis Asher,1 the right testicle Anu and the left
Hoa, forming the male triad, Asher-Anu-IIoa. There
is an indication of this belief among the Hebrews in
the name given by Rachel to her son. With her dying
breath she called the boy Ben-oni, signifying “ son of
Oni or son of the right testicle but Jacob renamed
him Benjamin (son of my right side).
As the upright stone or pillar was symbolical of the
male god of the Hebrews as well as of the male gods
of the pagans, and coincidentally of the male fructi­
fying principle in nature, so was a fissure, an oval, or an
opening which was in any way reminiscent of the vulva,
symbolical of pagan goddesses and of the female prin­
ciple. It is noteworthy, however, that there was in ex­
istence no goddess to correspond with, or as a consort
for, the god of Israel. Invariably is the Hebrew deity
referred to as a male. But if no goddess was acknow­
ledged there was recognized surreptitiously, at any rate,
a female reproductive force, referred to in the Bible as
asherah. The fact that the term has been deliberately
mistranslated “ grove,” thus giving the idea of a planta­
tion or bunch of trees, merely serves, in accordance
with the object of those responsible for the preparation
of the English Bible, to camouflage the phallicism
which riddled the Hebrew religion. Asherah (the
vulva) was the female consort of Asher (the phallus).
It is hardly likely that the people would be con­
demned for planting trees, yet this very practice, if
" grove ” is to be accepted as a synonym for trees, came
in for severe condemnation, thus: “ And the children
of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and forgat the
Lord their God, and served Baalim and the groves.”
Here the reference to the female consort of the pagan
* Inman is of opinion that Asher was the same as Mahadcva io the
Hindu Pantheon; i.e. the phallus.
144 PHALLIC WORSHIP
god is evident.1 And in another passage there is a
reference to the setting up of groves under every green
tree,”3 a plain indication that the word “ groves ” can­
not refer to trees.
It is contended that, in many mythologies, the ark
was a symbol for the womb of the female, and that the
Biblical story of the ark is essentially a phallic one. In
the ark was a phallus, to which, daily, Noah prayed.
Gregory, in referring to Noah praying before the body
of Adam, seems to think that Adam was the primitive
phallus, the procreator of the human race. He says
that, according to St. Ephrcm and other authorities,
Adam was commanded by God (and left the same in
charge to his posterity) that his dead body should be
kept above ground “ till a fulness of time should come
to commit it to the middle of the earth/* The em­
balmed body was eventually delivered by Lamcch into
the care of Noah, who appointed the middle of the
ark as the place of prayer, and made it as holy as he
could by the presence of Adam’s body.3
The argo of the Greeks, Sellon points out, the Cybium
of Egypt, and the argha (or yoni) of India, were all
represented by a cup or boat— Osiris of Egypt standing
in a boat; Noah in his ark, or argha; and Iswarra, “ lord
of the boat-shaped vessel ” rising from the yoni, have
all possibly one common origin, viz. the Lingam and
Yoni in mysterious conjunction. And, asserts the same
authority, “ there would also now appear good ground
for believing that the ark of the covenant, held so sacred
1 See al$o i Kings xiv. 23; i Kings xiv. 15.
* The passage reads: “ And the children of Israel did secretly those
things that were not right against the Lord their God, and they built
them high places in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to
the fenced city. And they set them up images and groves in every high
hill, and under every green tree.” (2 Kings xvii. 9*10.)
3John Gregory, Notes and Observations upon Some Passages of Scrip­
ture, 1650, p. 121.
by the Jews, contained nothing more or less than a
phallus, the ark being the type of the argha or Yoni.” 1
Staniland Wake has drawn attention to the signifi­
cance of the legend of Noah's Ark as it is given in the
Scriptures. The absurdity so apparent in the story,
commonly interpreted as referring to the entrance into
the ark ot a male and a female of every sort, is avoided
if a phallic interpretation be given to the text. The ark
then becomes the “ argha of Hindu mythology, the
Yoni of Parvati, which, like the moon in Zoroastrian
teaching, carried in itself the *germs of all things.' The
incomprehensibility of the story vanishes. The Elohim
‘ created' the heavens and the earth, and on its des­
truction the seeds of all things were preserved in the
ark to again cover the earth ”3(cf. p. 201).
Most of the ancient races appear to have had an ark
or argha, which was used to conceal or protect the phal­
lus or its representative. Oliver says:
“ After the deluge the Sun and Noah were wor­
shipped in conjunction with the Moon and the
Aik, which latter represented the female principle,
and was acknowledged in different nations under
various appellations of Isis, Venus, Astarte, Ceres,
Proserpine, Rhea, Sita, Ccridwen, Frea, etc., while
the fumen or male principle assumed the names of
Osiris, Saturn, Jupiter, Neptune, Bacchus, Adonis,
Hu, Brahma, Odin, etc., which by degrees intro­
duced the abominations of phallic worship.”3
Tacitus states that the Suevi, one of the oldest and
most powerful German nations, worshipped Isis in the
form of a ship. The Chaldeans insisted that the earth
1 Edward Scllon, article “ On the Phallic Worship of India ” in
Memoirs of the Anthropological Society, Vol. I, London, 1865.
2 C. Staniland Wake, Serpent Worship and Other Essays, 1888, p. 69.
* George Oliver, The History of Initiation, 1829.
PHALLICISM IN THE BIBLE 145
K
PHALLIC WORSHIP
was shaped and hollowed like an immense boat.
According to Strabo, an umbilicus of white marble,
carefully wrapped in cloth, was kept in a temple at
Delhi. By Greek mythologists, the mystical boat was
called the cup of the sun, in which, it was claimed, Her­
cules, the son of Jupiter, sailed the ocean. The Greeks,
by whom the notion of an avatara, or descent of a god
in human form, had not been generally recognized,
considered those as the sons, whom the Hindus en­
vision as incarnate rays or portions of their several
deities. Jupiter was the Iswara of the Hindus, and the
Osiris of the Egyptians; and Hercules was an avatara
of the same divinity, who is figured among the ruins of
Luxorein, in a boat, which eighteen men bear upon
their shoulders.1
In further reference to the argha, Lieutenant Wilford
says that the Hindus consider it to be an emblem of the
earth, and of the mysterious Yoni. It signifies a vessel,
cup or dish, in which fruits and flowers are offered to
the deities, and ought to be in the shape of a boat;
though we may see many that arc oval, circular or
square. A rim round the argha represents the Yoni,
and the navel of Vishnu is commonly denoted by a
convexity in the centre, while the contents of the vessel
are symbols of the Lingam.
“ This argha, as a type of the adhara-sakti, or
power of conception, excited and vivified by the
Lingam, or phallus, I cannot but suppose to be one
and the same with the ship Argo, which was built,
according to Orpheus, by Juno and Pallas, and ac­
cording to Apollonius, by Pallas and Argus, at the
instance of Juno.”2
1 Lt. Francis Wilford, Asiatic Researches, 1799, Vol. Ill, p. 363.
2Asiatic Researches, 1799 and 1805. Vols. Ill and VIII.
146
PHALLICISM IN THE BIBLE !47
It is significant that the ark constructed by Noah
sailed the waters for a period equal to that of woman’s
gestation, to wit, 284 days. A t the end of this period
" life issued from the ark/’1
The moon and egg were both symbols of the ark from
which they issued when they became parents of a new
race. The ark of Noah, as a lunette, symbolized the
female principle, with a Lingam, or male principle, for
a mast. According to a legend of the Brahmans, it was
in this form that the two principles of generation were
preserved on the occasion of the universal deluge.2 In
some instances, instead of a mast, a man standing up­
right in the boat or ark, symbolized the male principle
in nature.
At the Dionysia of ancient Greece, an ark or boat,
decorated with phallic symbols, such as priapi, the navel
of the great mother, ripe pomegranates, et ai, was
carried through the streets.3
hi
The Phallic Oath
The persistent practice of the Bible translators of
disguising sexual references and phallic indications by
the employment of euphemisms or harmless terms is
again illustrated in the deliberate use of the word
“ thigh ” for the penis. It was the universal custom
for anyone making a vow to place his hand upon either
his own sexual member or upon that of the other person
concerned. Than the penis, the representadve of Yah-
1J. B. Hannay, The Rise, Decline, and Fall of the Roman Religion,
>925. P- 37-
2Oliver, op. cit.
3J. B. Hannay, op. cit.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
weh, no higher testimony could be given or asked.
Thus when Abraham asked his servant to swear to him,
he said: “ Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh:
and I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of
heaven, and the God of earth ” (Genesis xxiv. 2).
Another instance is concerned with the death of Jacob:
“ And the time drew nigh that Israel must die; and he
called his son Joseph, and said unto him, if now I have
found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand
under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me ”
(Genesis xlvii. 29). And in Lamentations we read:
“ We have given the hand to the Egyptians, and to the
Assyrians, to be satisfied with bread.” God himself
reviles Pharaoh for breaking the covenant when “ he
had given his hand ” (Ezekiel xvii. 18); and when Solo­
mon was made king of Israel “ all the princes, and the
mighty men, and all the sons likewise of King David,
submitted themselves unto Solomon the king” (1
Chronicles xxix. 24). Here the words “ submitted
themselves unto Solomon ” represent a deliberately
euphemized rendering of the Hebrew- text: the trans­
lation should read “ gave the hand under Solomon.”
Commenting upon the phallic oath and the references
to it in Genesis, the Encyclopaedia Biblica (Vol. Ill, col.
3453)says:
" With regard to the practice of putting the hand
under another’s thigh, it seems plain that it grew
out of the special sacredness attaching to the gen­
erative organ; fruitfulness being of specially divine
origin, the organ of it in man could by the primi­
tive Semites be taken as symbolizing the Deity.”
The ancient Egyptians adopted a somewhat similar
practice, the individual taking an oath grasping his own
148
PHALL1CISM IN THE BIBLE 149
phallus. This is shown in the accompanying illustra­
tion (from Caylus) of Osiris. We have also the account
concerning the engagement, by Tyndarus, of the suitors
of Helen to avenge her, in which he is said to have
compelled them to swear upon a horse's testicles.
There is a curious old Welsh law relating to rape
which indicates that the phallic oath was not unknown
in Wales. Disney says, in relation to this law:
“ But if compurgators could not be procured, or
(for ought I see) tho' they were; if the woman
would do as follows, her oath should convict him.
She was to bear in her right hand the rclicks of
some saint; and, with her left, taking hold of the
M an's----- , was to swear, that with that member
PHALLIC WORSHIP
>5°
he had violated her chastity. Thus doing she had
the law of him.” 1
A similar method of taking the oath persists to this
day among the Arabs, the testator placing his hand
upon his own sexual organ.
* John Disney. A View of Ancient Lows, Cambridge, 1719, p.
C H A P T E R IX
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT GREECE AND
ROME
i
The Worship of Priapus
G reece has always been intimately associated with
phallicism. Hermes was a name given both to the penis
and to Mercury, the phallic god.
The ancient deity, Priapus, was supposed to preside
over the reproductive acts of both human and animal
life, as well as the fertility of the soil. He was ugly in
appearance, and exhibited an abnormality of the
genitals. Originally Priapus appears to have been the
main god of the Lampsacenians. The temple dedicated
to him was the scene of the most remarkable sexual
orgies, every form of perversion being practised there.
The parent goddess Aphrodite was ashamed of her
deformed son, but not so the ladies of Lampsacus.
These women were enamoured of Priapus and his
abnormal sexuality, which took the shape of an enor­
mous penis.1 And here was the reason, according to
legend, for the introduction and popularity of the
Pnapic worship. Although the females might view
this interloper with favour, not so the males,, who were
1 “ Priapus was also called Triphallus (Triphallos). a threefold phallus,
an immense phallus, on account of the extraordinary size of his
member/— Prtapeia, Cosmopoli, 1890.
l 5 l
>52 PHAI.UC WORSHIP
filled with envy and hatred to such an extent that they
succeeded in getting Priapus expelled from the island.
But the women were not to be so easily balked. In a
body, they prayed incessantly to the gods, with the
result that a loathsome disease appeared in the city,
affecting the male members of the population. Puzzled
and alarmed, they hied them to the oracle of Dodona,
who expressed a firm conviction that there need be no
hope entertained of the disease being banished unless
the god Priapus be recalled and given suitable reverence-
In something very nearly approaching a panic the male
inhabitants obeyed this behest. They made themselves
images of the affected parts, and with these images,
privately and publicly, they honoured the god in
memory of the disease.1 Priapus came back to Lamp-
sacus in glory. He was made god of the gardens, and
secured the worship and adoration of all.
Such is the legend, according to Natalis Comes, con­
cerning the origin of the worship of Priapus: a story
strongly resembling that which is presented by the
same authority for the origin of the worship of Dionysus
in Greece. When Pegasus moved a number of images
of this god to Athens, they were received with small
reverence. To revenge himself for this slight, Dionysus
caused a loathsome disease to affect the male genitals,
a malady which baffled every effort of the medicos of
the day. As usual in such cases, like the males of
Lampsacus in a similar dilemma, they consulted an
oracle. The only remedy for the plague, they were in­
formed, was to honour and venerate the angry god.
Thus arose the Dionysia, with the processions of wor­
shippers carrying virilia (wooden representations of the
male member) bound to the thyrsi.
1 John Gregory, Notes and Observations upon Some Passages of
Scripture, second edition, 1650, p. 43.
1’I.ATK
XI
h'iUf page 152.
c
k
k
k
m
o
x
i
a
l
w
o
k
s
i
i
i
i
’
<
>
i
-
p
k
i
a
i
t
s
.
I'rom
Montf
autoi
i,
l.'A
n
tiq
u
ite
h'xpliquee
(Paris.
s.
> «
0
l
lit
*
J
w A.
Dr. Rosenbaum, to whom I am indebted for the main
points in these accounts, says:
“ Whatever interpretation we may give to these
legends of Bacchus and Priapus, this much at
any rate may be gathered from them, that affec­
tions of the male genitals at the time when they
first became prevalent were taken to be the original
cause of the introduction of phallic worship.”1
A similar opinion was advanced by Schaufus (says
Rosenbaum) to account for the introduction of venereal
disease into Europe from India. Thus:
“ It would seem then that it was the sickness of
the male genitals which gave occasion for their
consecration and worship; and this is so far not
inconsistent with reason, as the external position
of the sexual parts in the male make every affection
and injury perceptible at once with but little
trouble, while the female organs lie in a more con­
cealed situation.”2
It seems probable that the accepted symbol of exces­
sive virility and sexuality exhibited by Priapus was
largely responsible for the extravagantly phallic nature
of the worship accorded him, for the orgiastic character
of the festivals held in his honour, and for the number
and ideography of the images and other symbolical
representations which were to be observed in all parts
of Greece and Rome.
Davenport is of opinion that the worship of the god
1 The Plague of Lust, Paris. 1901, Vol. I, p. 46. It may be stated here
that however interesting this theory may be and however much the fear
of venereal infection may have contributed to the worship of Priapus.
the origin of phallicism. in any general sense, goes much deeper and
was far more universal than this (sec Chapter III).
* Ibid., Vol I p 17
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME 153
PHALMC WORSHIP
by the Romans was an introduction from the Egyptians,
“ who under the form of Apis, the sacred Bull,
worshipped the generative power of nature; and,
as the syllable pri or pre signifies, in the oriental
tongues, principle, production, or natural or original
source, the word Priapus may be translated prin­
ciple of production or of fecundation of Apis”1
The images, or Priapi, as they were usually termed,
took many forms. In some cases a human head only,
attached to an enormous phallus, represented the god;
in others, the head surmounted a pedestal, from which
protruded an exaggerated membrum virile. If provided
with arms, the figure held a reaping hook in one hand,
while the other hand grasped the huge phallus with
which he was embellished. In many instances these
phalli were detachable and could be moved at will to
heighten the illusion of reality. Aristophanes tells of
a long pole, fitted at the top with a coriaceum virile
pudendum, which was erected in honour of Bacchus.
Occasionally the head was that of the god Pan, or it
might take the shape of a goat or a faun.
These priapi were to be found everywhere. They
were much used for marking boundaries, or in the form
of signposts. They were also commonly to be seen in
the gardens of Rome, and were supposed to have a
beneficent influence upon the fertility of the soil.
Usually, in such cases, the image of the god was hewn
or chopped out of a living tree.
Smaller priapi, made of wood, ivory, glass, and ever,
gold, were carried about by worshippers. In the houses
of the wealthy, elaborately carved, costly drinking
vessels, and vases shaped like the male sexual member,
* John Davenport. Remarks on the Symbols <f the Reproductive
Powerst 1869.
»54
h'acc page i S-|
I
4
i
were to be found. In many cases these phalli were
purely and solely representations of the membrum virile.
In Priapeia we read that certain women presented to
the god as many phalli, made of willow-wood, as the
men whom they had vanquished in a single night.
Lucian tells us that “ the Greeks erect Priapuses to
Bacchus, which are little men made of wood, having
their privities of a large dimension.”
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT CREECE AND ROME 155
PRIAPIC DEMON
This figure was “ a popular illustration of the broadside
ballads of the age of James I and Charles I. It is
Priapus reduced to his lowest step of degradation/'
From A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus (1865)
Goats and asses were regularly sacrificed to Priapus.
Ovid, in his Fastorum, gives an account of the origin of
the sacrifice of the ass.
“ It seems the god was in love with the nymph
Lotisywho, lying, with the rest of the Rural Deities,
in the grass, on a moon-shine night, and being
fallen asleep, Priapus by stealth intended to have
PHALLIC WORSHIP
>
5 <
>
deflowered her, but when he was over-near the per­
petrating of his villainy, old Silenus, his ass,
chanced to bray so rudely and loud that he wakened
the nymph and defeated the god of his lewd pur­
pose, debarring him of his desired pleasure, and
exposing him to the derision of all the Rural Deities
by the mishap. And therefore the heathens
sacrifice an ass to Priapus as a reiterated revenge
upon that beast for doing him so great a dis­
pleasure.”
11
The Phallic Gods of the Greeks and Romans
The ancient Romans worshipped certain household
gods, or Lares, as they were termed. According to
Apulcius, these Lares were really spirits of the dead,
and were supposed to possess the power of protecting
those associated with them from evil, and their goods
from injury or spoliation.
Apparently images of the gods were affixed in prom­
inent places in the house, and incense was offered to
them. They were intimately associated with the house­
hold, and were carried away with the chattels in case of
removal. It is probable that between the Lares of the
Romans and the teraphim of the Hebrews, there was no
essential difference. Thus we find an early reference
in Genesis: “ And Laban went to shear his sheep; and
Rachel had stolen the images that were her father's.”
It would appear that, in addition to the household or
private Lares, there were others for public use, which
were erected at various points in the towns and villages
for protective purposes. To these public Lares sacrifices,
at first human and later animal, were regularly offered.
We are told that the Lares, like the teraphim, were
fashioned in human form, and there can be small doubt
that they were closely reminiscent of the phalli used by
the worshippers of Priapus.
The Penates again were household gods, but they
were of a higher class or form than the Lares which
preceded them. Moreover, in contradistinction to the
Lares, they were the recognized representatives of cer­
tain specific gods or goddesses.
Pliny cites a curious legend which seems to give some
indication of the origin of these household deities, thus:
“ In the reign of Tarquinius Priscus, it is said,
there appeared upon his hearth a resemblance of
the male generative organ in the midst of the ashes.
The captive Ocrisia, a servant of Queen Tanaquil,
who happened to be sitting there, arose from her
seat in a state of pregnancy, and became the
mother of Servius Tullius, who eventually suc­
ceeded to the throne. It is stated, too, that while
the child was sleeping in the palace, a flame was
seen playing round his head; the consequence of
which was, that it was believed that the Lar of the
household was his progenitor. It was owing to
this circumstance, we are informed, that the Com-
pitalia, games in honour of the Lares, were in­
stituted.” 1
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME 157
Among the most ancient of the phallic gods is
Mercurius, renamed Hermes by the Greeks. Every­
where were there for the finding statues erected in his
honour. These statues, termed Hermge, were rough
stones bearing a head and a sexual member of exag-
1 The Natural History of Pliny, Book XXXVI, p. 384 (Bohn’s edition.
1857). The legend is also mentioned by Ovid, Arnobius and Dionysius
of Halicarnassas.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
gcratea size; in other words, they were identical with
the phallic emblems erected to Priapus. Festivals were
held annually in honour of the god, in various parts
of Greece, notably in Athens. They were termed
Hermxa, and were characterized by phallic rites and
sexual excesses similar to those practised at the festivals
of Dionysia and of Bacchus in Rome (cf. pp. 162 and
167). Usually Hermes was depicted holding in one
hand the caduceus, or rod of life, the phallic symbol
which indicates the participator in, as well as the act
of coition or reproduction.
The sculpture of ancient Greece, and the medals and
coins then in use, provide evidence of the importance
attached to phallic worship at that lime. In many cases
they illustrated the physical act of coitus and its
analogues. Payne Knight points out that these medals
and coins were issued with the authority of the State,
and for this reason they may be taken to provide a true
depiction of the ancient religion of Greece.
There is much dispute as to the parentage of Dionysus
and likewise as to his birthplace. Some authorities
affirm that he was the son of Zeus, others that Ammon
was his father. According to Clement of Alexandria,
Dionysus was a pathic, although he could and did have
heterosexual relations. His partner in vice was Poly-
ymnus, whose death Dionysus took so greatly to heart
that he cut a phallus out of wood and carried it upon
his person in memory of his lover.1 It was because of
this, affirms Lucian, that Dionysus became a phallic
god. For the same reason, says Clement of Alexandria,
he is often depicted, with naked posteriors, seated upon
an upright wooden phallus.
In Rome, Dionysus was worshipped under the name
of Bacchus, and the rites were very similar to those
1 Julius Rosenbaum, The Plague of Lust, Pails, 1901.
158
1M,ATK XIII
SACKII'ICK TO H A C n U 'S .
ITom Petri Zornii liiblotheca (17^5).
See text page
m f V P I I A L I . K ' IMAGK.
Prom the Collection of F.truscan, Greek and Homan Antiquities in the
Cabinet of the Hon. II’. Hamilton (Naples, 1“<
»
<
>
).
Face page 15N.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
by the Romans was an introduction from the Egyptians,
"who under the form of Apis, the sacred Bull,
worshipped the generative power of nature; and,
as the syllable pri or pre signifies, in the oriental
tongues, principle, production, or natural or original
source, the word Priapus may be translated prin­
ciple of production or of fecundation of A pis”1
The images, or Priapi, as they were usually termed,
took many forms. In some cases a human head only,
attached to an enormous phallus, represented the god;
in others, the head surmounted a pedestal, from which
protruded an exaggerated membrum virile. If provided
with arms, the figure held a reaping hook in one hand,
while the other hand grasped the huge phallus with
which he was embellished. In many instances these
phalli were detachable and could be moved at will to
heighten the illusion of reality. Aristophanes tells of
a long pole, fitted at the top with a coriaceum virile
pudendum, which was erected in honour of Bacchus.
Occasionally the head was that of the god Pan, or it
might take the shape of a goat or a faun.
These priapi were to be found everywhere. They
were much used for marking boundaries, or in the form
of signposts. They were also commonly to be seen in
the gardens of Rome, and were supposed to have a
beneficent influence upon the fertility of the soil.
Usually, in such cases, the image of the god was hewn
or chopped out of a living tree.
Smaller priapi, made of wood, ivory, glass, and even
gold, were carried about by worshippers. In the houses
of the wealthy, elaborately carved, costly drinking
vessels, and vases shaped like the male sexual member,
* John Davenport. Remarks on the Symbols of the Reproductive
Powers, 1869.
»54
/'n
et-page 15|
156 PHALLIC WORSHIP
deflowered her, but when he was over-near the per­
petrating of his villainy, old Silenus, his ass,
chanced to bray so rudely and loud that he wakened
the nymph and defeated the god of his lewd pur­
pose, debarring him of his desired pleasure, and
exposing him to the derision of all the Rural Deities
by the mishap. And therefore the heathens
sacrifice an ass to Priapus as a reiterated revenge
upon that beast for doing him so great a dis­
pleasure.”
II
The Phallic Gods of the Greeks and Romans
The ancient Romans worshipped certain household
gods, or Lares, as they were termed. According to
Apuleius, these Lares were really spirits of the dead,
and were supposed to possess the power of protecting
those associated with them from evil, and their goods
from injury or spoliation.
Apparently images of the gods were affixed in prom­
inent places in the house, and incense was offered to
them. They were intimately associated with the house­
hold, and were carried away with the chattels in case of
removal. It is probable that between the Lares of the
Romans and the teraphim of the Hebrews, there was no
essential difference. Thus we find an early reference
in Genesis: “ And Laban went to shear his sheep; and
Rachel had stolen the images that were her father’s ”
It would appear that, in addition to the household or
private Lares, there were others for public use, which
were erected at various points in the towns and villages
for protective purposes. To these public Lares sacrifices,
at first human and later animal, were regularly offered.
We arc told that the Lares, like the teraphim, were
fashioned in human form, and there can be small doubt
that they were closely reminiscent of the phalli used by
the worshippers of Priapus.
The Penates again were household gods, but they
were of a higher class or form than the Lares which
preceded them. Moreover, in contradistinction to the
Lares, they were the recognized representatives of cer­
tain specific gods or goddesses.
Pliny cites a curious legend which seems to give some
indication of the origin of these household deities, thus:
“ In the reign of Tarquinius Priscus, it is said,
there appeared upon his hearth a resemblance of
the male generative organ in the midst of the ashes.
The captive Ocrisia, a servant of Queen Tanaquil,
who happened to be sitting there, arose from her
seat in a state of pregnancy, and became the
mother of Servius Tullius, who eventually suc­
ceeded to the throne. It is stated, too, that while
the child was sleeping in the palace, a flame was
seen playing round his head; the consequence of
which was, that it was believed that the Lar of the
household was his progenitor. It was owing to
this circumstance, we are informed, that the Com-
pitalia, games in honour of the Lares, were in­
stituted.”1
Among the most ancient of the phallic gods is
Mercurius, renamed Hermes by the Greeks. Every­
where were there for the finding statues erected in his
honour. These statues, termed Hernias, were rough
stones bearing a head and a sexual member of exag-
PHALLICISM IX ANCIENT CREECE AND ROME 157
1 The Natural History of Pliny, Book XXXVI, p. 384 (Bohn’s edition.
1857). The legend is also mentioned by Ovid, Arnobius and Dionysius
of Halicarnnssas.
a
*
*
»
*
►
N
I
l
*
0
l .*
practised in Greece. In both countries, the goat and
the ivy were sacred to the god, which explains why
worshippers often carried blunt spears (thyrsi), decor­
ated with ivy and having phallic images at their
extremities. In sculpture we often find the god per­
sonified as a youth of effeminate appearance and great
beauty, accompanied by Pan and a satyr. The accom­
panying figure by Maffei (see plate x i ii) gives an ex­
cellent illustration of the manner of worshipping Bac­
chus. Inman, in describing it, says:
“ We notice the peculiar shape of the altar, the
triple pillar arising from it, the ass's head and
fictile offerings, the lad offering a pine cone sur­
rounded by leaves, and carrying on his head a
basket, in which two phalli are distinctly to be
recognized. The deity to whom the sacrifice is
offered is Bacchus, as figured by the people of
Lampsacus. On his shoulder he bears a thyrsus,
a wand of virga, terminating in a pine cone, and
having two ribbons dangling from it. We see
then, that among certain of the ancients, the ass,
the pine cone, the basket, and the thyrsus were
associated with Bacchus, or, the solar deity under
the male emblem."1
Mutinus was a name given by the Romans to a deity
which to all intents and purposes was the same as
Priapus of the Greeks. He was the especial favourite
of newlv-married women, who regularly prayed to his
image with a view to being cured of any real or sus­
pected infertility. Many did not stop at praying— they
performed ceremonies (so-called) of the most scandalous
nature (cf. p. 59).
The temples dedicated to Mutinus and other phallic
’ Thomas Inman, Ancient Faiths, Liverpool, 1868.
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT CREECE AND ROME 159
i6o PHALLIC WORSHIP
gods were decorated with pictorial representations of
the phallus and of men and animals engaged in sexual
congress. Nor was this practice restricted to the re­
ligious tabernacles. Venette says that realistic life-size
and nude delineations of various positions in the sex act
were painted by the finest artists of Rome upon the
walls of the Imperial Banqueting Hall in the famous
“ Golden Palace ” of Nero.
The nymphomaniacal Aphrodite, goddess of love and
licentiousness, sprang, according to Clement of Alex­
andria, from the member of the mutilated Uranus.
The goddess Ceres was a personification of the passive
productive element pervading the earth, and the wife
of Jupiter, who represented the active clement in
creation. The same goddess was worshipped by the
ancient Germans under the name of Hcrtha, the form
and meaning of which still remain in our English word
earth.1
h i
The Phallic Processions and Festivals
There is evidence that phallic processions were
customary in many countries, and were of great
antiquity. Juvenal mentions secret orgies by torch­
light, which, celebrated by the Baptae, were of such a
nature as to weary even Cotytto, the famous Athenian
goddess of licentiousness. Aristotle says they were held
in many cities in his time.
The festivals, feasts, initiations, and other celebra­
tions were devised by man to give pleasure to the gods.
On these occasions the deities were thought to present
1 R. Payne Knight. An Inquiry into the Symbolical Language of
Ancient Art and Mythology, 1818.
1M.ATK
XIV
I-'acc /
>
<
/
;»
<
’ i <
k\
Tin:
<;
k
k
k
k
p
h
a
u
.
ic
<;
o
m
>
k
s
s
.
aphkodi
ti
c
I
rom
Must
r
Iftyal
<
/
<
A
(
P
;iris
i
♦
themselves to their worshippers, either spiritually or
physically. Possibly at no other time was it deemed
possible for god and man to become in closer or
more intimate communion. “ In all initiations and
mysteries/' says Proclus, “ the gods exhibit themselves
under many forms, and with a frequent change of
shape; sometimes as light, defined to no particular
figure; sometimes in a human form and sometimes in
that of some other creature.” This conception was
paralleled in later centuries by the general belief in
virgin birth, in incubi and succubi, and in the Devil
and demons of witchcraft. (See Chapter VI.)
The Bacchanalia1 of the Romans, held in honour of
Bacchus, were first celebrated during the night and in
secret. They were occasions for orgies of indescribable
debauchery and licentiousness. “ So secretly were these
disgraceful assemblies held,” says Gardner, “ that for a
long time their existence in Rome was unknown, at
least to the public authorities.”2 It was not until the
year 186 b .c . that the Senate became aware of the true
nature of these religious meetings, and instituted pro­
ceedings designed to reform or curtail such celebrations.
The following account of these secret Bacchanalian
festivities, and the events which led up to their pro­
hibition, is given by the historian Titus Livius:
“ The employment decreed to both the consuls
was that of making inquiries concerning clandes­
tine meetings. A Greek, of mean condition, came,
first, into Eturia, not with one of the many trades
which his nation, of all others the most skilful in
embellishing the mind and body, has introduced
among us, but a low operator in sacrifices, and a
* Similar festivals, held in Athens, were termed Phallica.
* James Gardner, Faiths of the World, Vol. I, p, 176.
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME l6 l
PHALLIC WORSHIP
162
soothsayer; nor was he to be ranked with those
who, publicly professing to give instruction for hire,
make use of open rites and ceremonies, to imbue
men’s minds with religious tenors, but a teacher of
secret mysteries. These mysterious rites were, at
first, imparted to a few, but afterwards communi­
cated to great numbers, both men and women. To
their religious performances were added the
pleasures of wine and feasting, to allure the greater
number of proselytes. When wine, lascivious dis­
course, night, and the mingling of sexes, had
extinguished every sentiment of modesty, then
debaucheries of every kind began to be practised,
as every person found at hand that sort of enjoy­
ment to which he was disposed by the passion most
prevalent in his nature. Nor were they confined
to one species of vice, the promiscuous intercourse
of free-born men and of women; but from this
store-house of villainy proceeded false witnesses,
counterfeit seals, false evidence, and pretended
discoveries. In the same place, too, was perpetrated
secret murders, so that, in some cases, even the
bodies could not be found for burial. Many of
their audacious deeds were brought about by
treachery, but most of them by force; and this
force was concealed by loud shouting, and the
noise of drums and cymbals, so that none of the
cries uttered by the persons suffering violation or
murder could be heard abroad.
“ The infection of this mischief, like that of a
pestilence, spread from Eturia to Rome; where, the
size of the city affording greater room for such
evils, and more means of concealment, it remained
some time undiscovered, but information of it was
at length brought to the consul, Postumius, in the
following manner. One Publius Aebutius, whose
father had held equestrian rank in the army, was
left an orphan, and, his guardian dying, he was
educated under the eye of his mother Duronia, and
stepfather Titus Sempronius Rutilus. Duronia was
entirely devoted to her husband; and Sempronius,
having managed the guardianship in such a
manner that he could not give an account of the
property, wished that his ward should be either
made away with, or bound to compliance with his
will by some strong tic. The Bacchanalian rites
presented themselves to his view, as the surest way
to effect the ruin of the youth. His mother tola
him, that, ‘ during his sickness, she had made a
vow for him, that if he should recover, she would
initiate him among the Bacchanalians; that being,
through the kindness of the gods, bound by this
vow, she wished now to fulfil it; that it was neces­
sary he should preserve chastity for ten days, and
on the tenth, after he should have supped and
washed himself, she would conduct him to the place
of worship/ ”
A free-woman and notorious prostitute called Hispala
Fecenia was, at this time, being visited by Aebutius. In
an explanation for his temporary abstinence, to this
young lady’s horror, the youth told her that he was to
be initiated to the Bacchanalia. She got the whole story
from him, and in an endeavour to dissuade him from
obeying his mother, gave him some idea of the nature
of the proceedings and hinted at unmentionably vile
orgies that were part of them. Aebutius, impressed
with the woman’s denunciation, on returning home,
flatly refused to be initiated, and his mother turned
him out bag and baggage. His aunt, to whose house
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME 163
PHALLIC WORSHIP
he went for shelter, after hearing the whole story,
advised him to go to the consul Postumius. The consul,
after listening to his recital, summoned Hispala and
commanded her to tell her story, assuring her that she
need fear no evil consequences from the betrayal of the
secrets of the Bacchanalia. She then gave the following
account of the origin of the mysteries.
“ At first,” she said, “ the rites were performed
by women. No man used to be admitted. They
had three stated days in the year on which persons
were initiated among the Bacchanalia, in the day­
time. The matrons used to be appointed priest­
esses, successively in their turn. Paculla Minia, a
Campanian, when priestess, made an alteration in
every particular, under pretence of having been so
directed by the gods. For she first introduced men,
who were her own sons, Minucius and Hcrcnnius,
both surnamed Cerrinius; changed the time of
celebration from day to night; and, instead of three
days in the year, appointed five days of initiation
in each month. When the rites were thus made
common, and men were intermixed with women,
the night encouraging licentious freedom, there
was nothing wicked, nothing flagitious, that had
not been practised among them. There were more
frequent pollutions of men with each other, than
with women. If any showed an uncommon degree
of reluctance in submitting to dishonour, or of
disinclination to the commission of vice, they were
held as victims, and sacrificed. To think nothing
unlawful was the grand maxim of their religion.
The men, as if bereft of reason, uttered predictions,
with frantic contortions of their bodies; the women,
in the habit of Bacchantes, with their hair dis­
164
hevelled, and carrying blazing torches, ran down
to the Tiber, where, dipping their torches in the
water, they drew them up again with the flame
unextinguished, being composed of native sulphur
and charcoal. They said, that men were carried
off by the gods, when, after being fettered, they
were dragged to secret caves. These were such as
refused to take the oath of the society, or to associ­
ate in their crimes, or to submit to defilement.
Their number was exceedingly great, enough
almost to compose a state in themselves, and among
them were many men and women of noble families.
During the last two years, it had been a rule that
no person above the age of twenty should be
initiated; for they sought for people of such age as
made them more liable to suffer deception, and
personal abuse.”
As a result of these disclosures Postumius induced
the Senate to offer a reward for information which
would lead lo a conviction of the guilty. It was said
that some seven thousand persons of both sexes had
been sworn into the association. A large number of
these were arrested and imprisoned. The meeting
places were destroyed and the celebration of Bacchan­
alian rites was prohibited throughout Italy.
The stopping of the Bacchanalia, however, did not
mean the end of the phallic festivals. It merely meant
the end of the secrecy attached to them, and a curbing
or abandoning of the orgies and sexual rites practised.
In future, these festivities were held in the day-time
and under other names. There were several varieties.
The most celebrated was known as the Liberalia, held
on the 17th March, the birthday of Liber, the Roman
god of wine, who was merely Bacchus under another
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME l 6$
16 6 PHALLIC WORSHIP
name. Then there was the Festival of Venus in the
first week of April; and the Floralia at the end of the
same month; while in October was held another festival
to celebrate the gathering in of the harvest.
A feature of all such processions was the exhibition
of a huge phallus, usually in a car or chariot, attended
by a number of men, who were termed Phallophoroi,
each of whom carried a long pole to which was affixed
a representation of the male organ of generation. Hero­
dotus says they carried images of a cubit’s length, with
members of a size very nearly equal to that of their
bodies. In the festivals celebrated by Ptolemy Phila-
delphus was a phallus, elaborately gilded, measuring
120 cubits high. The attendant Phallophoroi chanted
songs, often in the most obscene terminology, as they
marched through the streets.
The people themselves, whether forming part of the
procession or acting in the role of onlookers, seem to
have found these festivals occasions for the throwing
to the winds of every shred of decorum and modesty.
They joined in the singing, and indulged in promiscuity
of the most flagrant description. The prostitutes of
the town, in particular, mixed with the crowds in a state
of complete nudity. It is stated, according to Payne
Knight, that these libidistic scenes were recognized as
so thoroughly established that Cato the Younger, on
one occasion when he was present at the Floralia, so far
from showing any disapproval, retired from the scene
so “ that his wr
ell-known gravity might be no restraint
upon them, because the multitude manifested some
hesitation in stripping a woman naked in the presence
of a man so celeBrated for his modesty.” At the Festi­
val of Venus, according to the same authority, the
phallus was led in procession by the Roman ladies to
the Temple of Venus outside the Colline gate, and there
presented by them to the sexual parts of the goddess.
The Dionysia of the Greeks was characterized by
rites of a very similar nature to those already described.
They are said to have been brought to Athens from
Egypt by Melampus. A t Lavinium, says Bell, the fes­
tival continued for a whole month, a huge phallus
being carried through the streets daily. The ithyphal-
loi often wore women’s attire, while going through the
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME 167
19.
ITHYPHALIJ
From Gcppert’s Die Aitgrieehitchc Buhne (Leipzig. 1643)
sexual motions and activities of men, and having
affixed around their middles huge phalli of wood or
leather.1 The procession ended with the carrying of
the membrum virile into the temple where it was
crowned with a garland by one of the most respectable
women of the town. In the orgies that followed,
sodomy, tribadism, and bestiality were all practised.
(Cf. p. 178.)
1 Presumably these practices spread to other nations, including the
Israelites, for we find them expressly prohibited in the laws of Moses.
See Deut. xxii. 5.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
Herodotus is of opinion that Melampus was respon­
sible for the initiation of phallic processions in honour
of Dionysus, having observed them celebrated by the
Phoenicians who had settled in Boeotia with Cadamus.
The festival termed Paamylia by Plutarch, and sup­
posed to derive its name from Paamylcs, who an­
nounced the birth of Osiris to the world, was evidently,
says Kenrick, a phallic ceremony of the kind described
by Herodotus.1 Dcmcter was a phallic goddess wor­
shipped by the Greeks. The annual festival celebrated
by the Syracusians in her honour was termed Thesmo-
phoria, and a huge representation of the female pudenda
was carried through the streets.
Finally, but not unimportantly, we have to consider
the renowned Mysteries of Eleusis, so-named from
being first celebrated in the town of Eleusis. There is
much dispute as to their origin, but the consensus of
opinion is that they were initiated by Erichthonius,
and remodelled by Eumolpus, King of Thrace, some
fourteen centuries before Christ.2 These celebrations
were held in honour of Demeter and Bacchus. They
were divided into two stages or degrees, the first or
lesser mysteries, which constituted a sort of holy pre­
fatory purification; and the second or greater mysteries,
when the initiate was admitted into the inmost recesses
of the temple and made acquainted with the first prin­
ciples of religion, the knowledge of the god of nature.3
At the time when the Mysteries originated, an im­
portant part of the festival consisted of the sacrifice of
some animal, usually a bull. There was undoubtedly,
too, a good deal of sexual promiscuity. Owing to the
secrecy with which the whole procedure wras surrounded
1 John Kenrick, Ancient Egypt. 1850, Vol. I, p. 467.
* James Gardner, op. ett., Vol. I, p. 809.
* R. Payne Knight, op. c«i., p- 2.
168
and the rigidity of the vows imposed upon both hiero­
phants ana initiates, there are no authoritative accounts
available. But St. Gregorios and St. Chrysostom both
imply that the practice of sexual perversions was ram­
pant; and Titionos bluntly states that incest was a
feature of the rites. In later years symbolic representa­
tions took the place of the sacrifices and sexual orgies.
Consecrated bread and wine were eaten and drunk as
symbolical of the flesh and blood of the god. There is
presumptive evidence that the Christian sacrament of
the Lord's Supper was a copy of the Eleusinian Mys­
teries. Apropos of this Taylor says:
“ From these ceremonies is derived the very
name attached to our Christian sacrament of the
Lord's Supper— *those holy mysteries.’ If it were
possible to be mistaken in the significance of the
monogram of Bacchus, the I H S, to whose honour,
in conjunction with Ceres, these holy mysteries
were distinctively dedicated, the insertion of those
letters in a circle of rays of glory, over the centre
of the holy table, is an hieroglyphic that depends
not on the fallibility of translation, but conveys
a sense that cannot be misread by any eye on
which the sun's light shines. I H S are Greek
characters, by ignorance taken for Roman letters;
and Yes, which is the proper reading of those
letters, is none other than the very identical name
of Bacchus, that is, of the Sun, of which Bacchus
was one of the most distinguished personifica­
tions; and Yes, or IES, with the Latin termina­
tion US added to it, is Jesus. The surrounding
rays of glory, as expressive of the sun's light,
make the identity of Christ and Bacchus as clear
as the sun.''1
1 Robert Taylor, The Diegesis, 1841, p. 213.
PHALLICISM IN ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME 169
PHALLIC WORSHIP
The testimony of Thcodoret, of Tertullian, of
Arnobius, and of Clement of Alexandria, is to the
effect that the virile membrum and pudenda muliebria
constituted the main objects of worship in these Mys­
teries, and it was the nature of this secret worship
which the initiates, upon pain of death, were for­
bidden to divulge. The indications of the truth of
this interpretation are many. Among the sacrifices
offered to the female deities by the people of Syracuse
were cakes shaped like the vulva, and undoubtedly
the female genitalia were, in many instances, specifi­
cally worshipped. In some temples, we are told, the
priestesses, who were probably trained in the ventri-
loquial art, managed to convey to the worshippers the
impression that words were coming from the genitals
of the goddesses. In the opinion of Sellon the anal­
ogy between the Eleusinian Mysteries and the Hindu
worship of Sakti is very striking.1
1 Edward Sellon, Annotations on the Sacred Writings of the Hindus,
1902, p. 26.
170
C H A P T E R X
PHALLICISM IN EGYPT, PERSIA,
ASSYRIA, ETC.
x
The Legend of Osiris
It has been said that Egypt was responsible for the
birth of false gods, or idolatry, but this premiss is
difficult to support. It was, however, responsible for
the birth of Osiris; and it is impossible to overestimate
the importance of this particular deity in Egyptian
mythology.
Osiris appears to have been initially worshipped as
an ox, later assuming human form. Plutarch tells us
that the statue of Osiris had the phallus to signify his
procreative and prolific power; the extension of which,
through the three elements of air, earth and water, they
expressed by another statue occasionally carried in
procession during the festivities in honour of the god
and which had a triple symbol of the fecundating
attribute.
Just as Osiris was the Egyptian god and creator, or
male principle in nature, so was Isis, his wife, the
universal mother, goddess of the earth, and representa­
tive of the female reproductive principle. Both Osiris
and Isis were phallic in significance. Indeed, because of
the unashamedly phallic character of the Egyptian
f 7 !
172 PHALLIC WORSHIP
deities, it was affirmed by many ancient writers that the
Egyptians worshipped “ things as gods that they might
well have blushed to name.” 1 Apparently Osiris and
Isis, in common with many other gods, were deified
human beings.
Now, according to legend, it was Isis who was directly
responsible for the worship of her marital partner be­
coming pre-eminently and indisputably a phallic cult.
After killing Osiris, his brother Typhon dismembered
the corpse and distributed the mutilated segments in a
number of places. Isis set herself the task of recovering
these various portions of her husband’s body. With
the exception of the genitals, which Typhon had
pitched into the Nile,2 she succeeded in her task. For
every section of Osiris’s body thus recovered, Isis caused
an appropriate statue to be erected and worshipped.
Chief of all these statues was that representing the
particular organs which had never been recovered, and
Isis was insistent that the image of these organs should
receive the greatest of all reverence. Further, the queen
gave permission for the priests to select an animal to be
the representative of Osiris, and, as such, to be duly
worshipped. The ox was chosen owing to the great
powers of virility and productiveness manifest in that
animal.
It is important to note that, as Kennedy points out,
the phallus or Lingam in the Egyptian and Hindu
religions was originally intended to represent the god’s
organ of generation and nothing else. Moreover, the
origin of this specific form of worship was, according to
Diodorus Siculus, ascribable to the same cause. He says
1 Archxologta. Vo!. IV. 1777, p. 152.
* There is a similar legend in connexion with the Phoenician god
Camillus, slain by his brother, who mutilated the corpse, carrying away
the genitals. And other gods in various mythologies were mutilated in
much the same way.
that the image of the virile member of Osiris was, on
the instructions of Isis, erected in temples and rever­
enced with divine honours, as if it were actually Osiris
himself, so that the sacrifices and mysteries instituted
in connexion with the worship of this god, “ became the
most celebrated and the most venerated. Hence, when
the Greeks received the rites and orgies of Dionysus
from Egypt, this member was held in honour in the
festivals and mysteries of that god, and (along with its
image) was named Phallus.” 1
PHALLICISM IN EGYPT, PERSIA, ASSYRIA, ETC. 173
EGYPTIAN WORSHIP OF THE PHALLUS
From Rottllini'r Monumenti (Pisa. 1832)
Diodorus tells us that Osiris, according to his own
statement, was the eldest son of Chronus, the youngest
of the gods, born of an egg.2 In addition to being a
sun-god, Osiris symbolized the river Nile. Represent­
ing the active virile principle in nature, he was invari­
ably delineated, in statuary or otherwise, with the
sexual member fully exposed and in a state of exagger­
ated erection. The Egyptian women carried images of
1 Lib. I, Chap. XX.
3 Christian C. J. Bunsen, Egypt's Place in Universal History, 184$
*74 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Osiris upon their persons. In religious gatherings and
festivals, they carried in triumphal procession larger
images with movable phalli of abnormal size and pro­
portions.
Payne Knight writes:
“ Plutarch tells us that Osiris was the same deity
as the Bacchus of Greek mythology; who was also
the same as the first begotten love of Orpheus and
Hesiod. This deity is celebrated by the poets as
the creator of all things, the father of gods and
men, and it appears that the organ of generation
was the symbol of his great characteristic attribute.
All this is perfectly consistent with the general
practice of the Greek artists, who uniformly repre­
sent the attributes of the deity by the corresponding
properties observed in the objects of sight. They
thus personified the epithets and titles applied to
him in the hymns and litanies and conveyed their
ideas of him by forms, only intelligible to the
initiated, instead of sounds, which were intelligible
to all. The organ of generation represented the
generative or creative attributes.” 1
In many cases it would appear that instead of a figure
of a male with a huge phallus, a living man substituted
himself for the god. Such men were stark naked and
were usually markedly lascivious. They were highly
honoured by the people. The Santos of Egypt were
notorious. De Thevenot says of them :
“ It is no fiction that many women, who cannot
be got with child, kiss their Priapus with great
veneration, nay sometimes they procure a Great-
belly by them. There was one of these blades here-
1 R. Payne Knight, A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus.
P l .A T K X V
Ac *■
THH SISTKUM (Fig. 17).
T h e Small Figures Illustrate Various Ancient Medals and Coins Hearing
Kngravings with a Phallic Significance.
From Payne Knight, Worship of Priapus (1786).
See text page 175.
[Pace page 174.
»
« «
s
i
tofore carried a great stone hanging at his glans,
and the women heartily kissed it for a Big Belly.” 1
On the death of Isis, she, too, was deified. The priests
decreed that Isis should be worshipped in the shape of a
cow. It is easy to understand the selection of a cow as
the natural representative of the goddess, for apart from
its connexion with the bull, as Inman points out, the
cow is an animal with “ an intense burning for copula­
tion, and longs more for it than the male, so much so
that when she hears the bellowing of the bull she be­
comes exceedingly excited and inflamed.”2
The worship of the cow was later transferred to the
image of a woman, who became the representative of
the goddess. The image had exaggerated private parts,
and bore on her head the horns of a cow. In many
instances, too, Isis is represented holding in her hand
a representation of the female womb. Sometimes this
took the form of a sistrum, the Egyptian symbol of
virginity or immaculateness, Isis being the forerunner
of the Virgin Mary of Christianity. The sistrum, says
Hannay, “ was carried by women in all phallic proces­
sions, and its tinkling sound was the accompaniment of
such rites, and of phallic songs.”3
It may be mentioned here that in many mythologies
the cow was worshipped as the representative of the
earth, or the female principle in nature. Astarte wore
the horns of a cow; Juno had a cow's eyes; Venus
suckled a calf.4 In ancient Scandinavia, the cow was
symbolical of the amorphous cosmogonic earth; in
Japan, according to Kaempfer, the sun was represented
seated upon a cow (the earth).
1 The Travels of Monsieur de Thevenot into the Levant, 1687, Part I,
p. 250.
* Thomas Inman, Ancient Faiths.
* Christianity: The Sources of its Teaching and Symbolism, p. 81.
4James Gardner, Faiths of the World, Vo!. I, p. 033.
PHALLICISM IN EGYPT, PERSIA, ASSYRIA, ETC. 175
PHALLIC WORSHIP
Osiris and Isis were not the only phallic deities that
lorded it over ancient Egypt. There was Khem,1 the
mighty Khem, god of generation, delineated and adored
in a thousand temples throughout the land. Khem was
the god of the gardens. It was considered that to his
influence “ everything was indebted for its procreation
and for the continuation of the species.”2 This pro­
nouncedly ithyphallic deity was also called “ the
Father,” and his consort, the goddess Maut, “ the
Mother.” The goat was sacred to Khem, as it was, in
Greece, to Pan. Strabo and Diodorus both record the
worship of the he-goat in Egypt as symbolical of the
generative principle.
Bunsen, in reference to Egyptian mythology, says
that the whole system “ obviously proceeded from ‘ tne
concealed god' Ammon, to the creating god. The
latter appears first of all as the generative power of
nature in the phallic god Khem, who is afterwards
merged with Ammon-ra. Then sprang up the idea of
the creative power of Kneph ”3 Another ithyphallic
god was Min, whose image was to be found in all parts
of Egypt.I
I
176
II
The Spreading of Phallic Worship
Originally the statues of Mercury were erect or up­
right stones, without human shape or appurtenances.
It was later, says Macrobius, that they were embellished
with the head of a man, and later still that the gener­
ative member was added. Ashur (the erect one), the
1 Khem was called Pan by the Greeks.
*J. G. Wilkinson, Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians,
first series, 1837, Vol. II, p. 185.
s Bunsen, op. ctt., Vol. I, p. 388.
PLA TE XV I
Fig. ?7 A tippcntli**' to is: / / / f*345
KINGS B L A R IN G LINGAM -YONI SYM BOLS.
From Higgins, Anacalypsis (1830).
E G Y P T IA N PH A LLIC W O RSH IP.
This Illustration from Monuments Egyptians (Paris, 1S47) depicts the Male
and Female Creative Forces in the Mythology of Ancient Hgvpt.
[Face page 1
i
f
V
I
I
phallic god of the Assyrians, was worshipped in the
form of an upright stone.
In the Syrian temple of Hicrapolis, there were two
enormous phalli, one on each side of the door. They
were looked upon as representing the generative organs
of the creator, with which he was supposed to have
impregnated the heavens, the earth and the waters.
In many races the promiscuity which constituted
such a feature of the phallicism inherent in their re­
ligious faiths was not restricted to special occasions,
such as annual or seasonal festivals, fertility rites, et
al. On the contrary, it formed a habitual "and regu­
lar part of the religion or social system. Thus Thevc-
not, in his Travels into the Levant (1687), says:
“ I saw nothing in Alexandria but what I had
seen the time before when I was there, only they
shewed me a Hhouame, and told me that these
Hhouames are a sort of vagabond people among
the Arabs, who lodge as they do, under tents, but
have a certain particular law to themselves; for
every night they perform their prayers and cere­
monies under a tent without any light, and then
lye with the first they meet, whether it be father,
mother, sister or brother; and this is far worse
than the religion of the Adamites. These people
though sulk and keep private in the city, for if
they be known to be Hhouames, they are burned
alive.”
Sacrifices were commonly associated with these
phallic festivals. Some of these sacrifices were of a
pronouncedly sexual nature. According to Pausanias,
in connexion with the rites of Pelarga, a female was
covered and impregnated as an offering to the goddess.
While the wearing of artificial phalli was a feature
M
PHALUCISM IN EGYPT, PERSIA, ASSYRIA, ETC. 177
PHALLIC WORSHIP
of the orgies in connexion with the phallic festivals,
not always did it stop at that. Tribadism was ram­
pant in the early days of Greek and Roman civiliza­
tion, and others besides professed Lesbians were ad­
dicted to sexual vice. Aristophanes speaks of the
use, by Milesian females, of an olisbos made of leather;
there are similar references in the Mimes of Heron-
das; while Petronius, in the Satyricon, tells of (Eno-
thea using an artificial phallus to stimulate the sexual
appetite of Encolpius. And in the Bible there is an
indication of the same practice, thus: “ Thou hast
also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my silver,
which I had given thee, and madcst to thyself images
of men, and didst commit whoredom with them”
(Ezekiel xvi. 17). It was to be expected that such
practices spread to Egypt and to other countries.
In Russia, at the meetings of the Skoptzis and the
Christs, the Holy Virgin was often represented by a
young woman in the flesh, and orgies of the most
decadent nature occurred. (See also Chapter IV.)
Even as comparatively recently as the beginning of
the nineteenth century, phallic worship was so pro­
nounced as to be an important feature of the wedding
ceremony in many Eastern countries. The following
description by an eyewitness is of great interest and
significance.
178
“ I have seen many nuptial processions of per­
sons high in office at the court of Mohammed
Aly; the bride was seated in a carriage, and all
the different trades and professions of the town
appeared personified upon richly decorated open
waggons drawn by horses; on these waggons the
tradesmen and artists had established their shops,
and sat working in the same manner as in their
own regular abodes: sixty or seventy of these
waggons followed the carriage of the bride. Be­
fore them went rope-dancers, harlequins, etc., and
at their head was a masked figure that is frequently
seen parading in front of nuptial processions of
an inferior order, and conducted with much less
pomp and splendour; this figure is a young man
whose head, arms, legs, and entire body are
patched over with white cotton, so that no part
of the skin can be perceived, his person appearing
as if completely powdered over. He exhibits in
the natural position, that object which constituted
the distinguishing attribute of the ancient Roman
god of the gardens; this is of enormous propor­
tions, two feet in length, and covered with cotton;
and he displays it with indecent gesticulation in
all the bazaars before the staring multitude, and
during the whole time of the procession. How
this custom, which is not known in other places,
began among the Egyptians, I am unable to ascer­
tain; but it seems not improbable some remnant
of the worship paid by their forefathers to that
god, whose temple at Karnak is the most con­
siderable now existing in Egypt.” 1
PHALLICISM IN EGYPT, PERSIA, ASSYRIA, ETC. 179
hi
The Sacred Bull of the Ancients
The bull, because of his strength, his energy, and,
above all, his sexual virility, was everywhere con­
sidered to be a fitting representative of the masculine
creative force, of fertility, of reproductivity. In all
lands he was the personification of the primitive and
1 John Lewis Burckhardt, Arabic Proverbs, 1830, pp. 115-16.
i8 o PHALLIC WORSHIP
basic sun-god. The Greeks worshipped him under
the name of Epaphus. His image is to be found upon
a large number of their ancient coins and monuments.
Bacchus was sometimes represented as a bull, or as a
cross between a bull and a man.
We have seen that the Egyptians held that the soul
of Osiris lived in the bull, worshipped under the name
of Apis at Memphis, and under the name of Mnevis
at Heliopolis. Herodotus tells us that “ the Apis is
the calf of a cow past bearing, but who, according to
the Egyptians, is impregnated by lightning, whence
she has the Apis. The marks which distinguish it from
all others are these: its body is black, except one square
of white on the forehead; the figure of an eagle on its
back; two kinds of hair on its tail, and a scarabaeus or
beetle under its tongue.” Any such specimen was
tended with the greatest care and taken to the temple
of Osiris, in which it was confined and worshipped,
until the day of its death, as a representative of the god.
According to Strabo, when an animal conforming to
this stipulated description could not be found, an image
of gold in the shape of the bull was made and wor­
shipped as though it were the living animal.
The worship of the bull invaded other countries. The
Israelites undoubtedly worshipped it (cf. p. 135), so
did the Greeks and the Romans. Plutarch states that
in Greece Bacchus was depicted with the head of a
bull, as was too Moloch, the god of the Ammonites;
Hebon, the Sicilian god, had the body of a bull; My-
litta was invariably represented as an associate or a con­
sort of the bull. In the Persian mythology, it is a bull
which emerges from the egg which is supposed to be
the origin of all things in creation. The women who
prayed for the aid of Bacchus asked that he might
hurry to their succour on the feet of a bull. Alexander
the Great worshipped the bull. In the Hindu myth­
ology we often find Iswara (the Indian prototype of
Bacchus) mounted on a bull, and the great Brahma
himself adopted the bull as his symbol.
It is thought that the bull-worship of Assyria was of
Egyptian origin, being evolved from and analogous to
the worship of Apis and Mnevis. Presumably it largely
displaced the original sun-, moon-, and fire-worship of
the ancient Assyrians. The gradual decline of fire-
worship and the superimposition of the Egyptian bull-
worship is referred to by Eusebius:
“ Ur, which signifies fire, was the idol they wor­
shipped, and as fire will, in general, consume every­
thing thrown into it, so the Assyrians published
abroad, that the gods of other nations could not
stand before theirs. Many experiments were tried,
and vast numbers of idols were brought from
foreign parts, but they being of wood, the all-
devouring god Ur or fire, consumed them. At last,
an Egyptian priest found our the art to destroy
the reputation of this mighty idol, which had so
long been the terror of distant nations. He caused
the figure of an idol to be made of porous earth,
and the belly of it was filled with water. On each
side of the belly holes were made, but filled up with
wax. This being done, he challenged the god Ur
to oppose his god Canopus,1 which was accepted
by the Chaldean priests, but no sooner did the wax,
which stopped up the holes in the belly of Cano­
pus, begin to melt, than the water burst out and
drowned the fire.”
It is significant that traces of the worship of the bull
are discoverable in fertility rites celebrated at Bury St.
1The Egyptian god of waters.
PHALLICISM IN EGYPT, PERSIA, ASSYRIA, ETC. l8 l
182 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Edmunds. According to the registers of the monastery
there, when a married woman was desirous of becoming
pregnant a sacred white bull was led in procession
through the principal streets of the town, attended by
a number of monks and a crowd of townspeople. The
woman walked at the side of the bull, stroking him,
until the procession ended at the church door. The
bull was then dismissed and the woman entered the
church. She paid her vows at the altar of St. Edmund,
kissing the stone, and entreating the blessing of a child.1
1 Gentleman's Magazine, November 1783, p. 901.
C H A P T E R XI
THE PHALLIC GODS OF INDIA
i
The Religion of the Hindus
In no country in the world did phallicism become so
universal and permeate so thoroughly the religious be­
liefs of the people as in India. To understand the
nature and development of this remarkable phallic cult
it is first necessary to glance briefly at the origin of the
famous Hindu triad or Trimurti, i.e. the deities,
Brahma, Vishnu and Siva.
The Hindu religion is presented in the four sacred
books: the Rig-Veda, the Yajur-Veda, the Sdma-Veda,
and the Atharva-Veda. The first named is the earliest
of the four. It is supposed to have been written about
1200 years before the birth of Christ. The contents of
the Vedas are held by the Hindus to be the spoken
words of the Creator himself. They are written in
Sanskrit, the language of the gods. In addition to these
books, there are other sacred writings of more recent
origin. These are the famous Puranas and Upa-
Puranas, comprising in all thirty-six volumes. They,
too, are in Sanskrit, and deal with creation and the
activities of the various deities comprising the Hindu
Pantheon.
Behind this somewhat complicated Hindu Pantheon
-83
PHALLIC WORSHIP
lies the conception of one powerful, universal spirit
called Brahm, actually the one supreme Hindu god, the
architect of the universe, functioning as an abstract
principle rather than an anthropomorphic or even a
theriomorphic figure. The limitations of a theological
system in which one god, and at that an abstract or a
metaphysical force, was the sole as well as the supreme
arbitrary power are apparent. The trouble with such a
cosmological explanation was that it involved the sup­
position that pure spirit, besides creating, could act
upon, matter. It presupposed a metaphysical concept
far in advance of the stage which knowledge had at that
time reached.
Once the ineffectiveness of this fundament had been
realized, it was admitted that the spiritual deity Brahm
must himself assume, either temporarily or perman­
ently, some corporeal form, in which to put forth the
necessary energy for the work of creation. It was
further admitted that the assumption of one form
would not, in itself, be sufficient; that the male energy
would be impotent without the existence of a cor­
responding female element, implying a subsequent
union of the two. It was then, and then only, that the
creation, from the chaotic mixture of water and dark­
ness visioned by Brahm, of an ordered universe, became
possible. The first step to this end was for Brahm, who
may be looked upon as a sort of hermaphroditic spirit
deity, to assume two complementary forms, one of
which, called Punish, represented the male element in
nature, and the other, named Prakriti, represented the
female element. In combination, the two produced
what was termed the Mundane Egg, from which the
whole universe sprang forth in an ordered and perfected
plan.
Dr. Duff describes the process of creation in accord­
184
ance with the cosmogony of the Hindus, in the following
terms:
THE PHALLIC CODS OF INDIA 185
“ All the primary atoms, qualities, and principles
— the seeds of future worlds— that had been
evolved from the substance of Brahm, were now
collected together, and deposited in the newly-
produced egg. And into it, along with them,
entered the self-existent himself, under the assumed
form of Brahma— and there sat, vivifying, expand­
ing, and combining the elements, a whole year of
creation— a thousand yugs— or four thousand three
hundred millions of solar years! During this
amazing period, the wondrous egg floated ‘ like a
bubble on an abyss’ of primeval waters— rather,
perhaps, chaos of the grosser elements, in a state of
fusion and commixion— increasing in size, and
blazing refulgent as a thousand suns. At length,
the supreme, who dwelt therein, burst the shell of
the stupendous egg, and issued forth under a new
form, with a thousand heads, a thousand eyes, and
a thousand arms! Along with him there sprang
forth another form, huge and measureless. What
could that be? All the elementary principles hav­
ing now been matured, and disposed into an end­
less variety of orderly collocations, and combined
into one harmonious whole, they darted into
visible manifestation, under the form of the present
glorious universe— a universe now finished and
ready made, with its entire apparatus of earth, sun,
moon, and stars. What, then, is this multiform
universe? It is but an harmoniously arranged ex­
pansion of primordial principles and qualities.
And whence are these?— educed or evolved from
the divine substance of Brahm. Hence it is that
PHALLIC WORSHIP
186
the universe is so constantly spoken of, even bv the
mythologists, as a manifested form of Brahm him­
self, the supreme invisible spirit. Hence, too,
under the notion that it is the manifestation of a
being who may assume every variety of corporeal
form, is the universe often personified; or described
as if its different parts were only the different
members of a person of prodigious magnitude, in
human form. In reference to this more than
gigantic being, viewed as a personification of the
universe, it is declared that the hairs of his body
are the plants and trees of the forest; of his head,
the clouds; of his beard, the lightning; that his
breath is the circling atmosphere; his voice, the
thunder; his eyes, the sun and moon; his veins, the
rivers; his nails, the rocks; his bones, the lofty
mountains! ” l
In this way were formed the fourteen worlds which,
according to the Hindu cosmogony, comprised the
universe. At first they were all uninhabited. The task
of creating the various beings which were to live on
these worlds was assigned to a creator, named Brahma,*
the first god of the Hindu triad. The other members
of the trinity were named Vishnu and Siva.
These gods, and in particular Siva, the third member
of the trinity, appeared in many forms and under a
number of other names.
1 Alexander Duff, India, and Indian Missions, 1839.
* In modern Hinduism the worship of Brahma has little place, being
restricted to a comparatively small body, termed Brahmans. This docs
not, however, affect the basic principle and essentials of Hinduism,
modern developments being concerned with a change of symbolism
rather than any alteration in cosmogonical fundaments.
THE PHALLIC GODS OF INDIA .8 7
II
The Origin of Hindu Phallicism
In India the phallus is termed the Lingam, and
worshipped under this name. The antiquity of the
worship is suggested in the following passage from
Asiatic Researches (Vol. XVII, 1832):
“ There can be no doubt of its (phallicism’s)
universality at the period of the Mohammedan
invasion of India. The idol destroyed by Mahmud,
of Ghizni, was nothing more than a Linga, being,
according to Mirkhond, a block of stone of four or
five cubits long, and proportionate thickness. It
was, in fact, one of the twelve great Lingas then
set up in various parts of India, several of which,
besides Someswara, or Somanath, which was the
name of the Siva, demolished by Mahmud, were
destroyed by the early Mohammedan conquerors.
Most if not all of them, also are named in works,
of which the date cannot be much later than the
eighth or ninth century, and it is therefore to be
inferred, with as much certainty as anything short
of positive testimony can afford, that the worship
of Siva, under this type, prevailed throughout India
at least as early as the fifth and sixth centuries of
the Christian era.”
The five-faced god, Punchanunu, was actually Siva.
He was worshipped in the form of a stone placed under
a tree. This image was anointed with oil, the upper
part of it was painted red, and sacrifices were offered to
it: plain indications of its phallic character. Morane
Bura, the sanguinary god of the Santals, was represented
by a huge rough, upright stone, to which sacrifices were
PHALLIC WORSHIP
offered. According to tradition, this deity was respon­
sible for the formation of the earth and the creation
of the first pair of human beings.1
The female principle in creation was generally recog­
nized and referred to as Sakti. This recognition of the
female element led to every male god being given a
consort or wife. Sakti is personified by the worshippers
of Siva in Parvati or Durga-Kali, or Uma. Siva is the
generating deity responsible for the production of
human beings and animals, plants and inanimate
objects. Similarly the female consort of Brahma was
Sarasvati; while the consort of Vishnu was Siri. Sakti
was also personified in the goddess Cunti.2
How did the images of the phallus and of the vulva
come to be the admitted and acknowledged repre- '*
sentatives of the creative and reproductive forces
in the Hindu cosmogony, and of the gods and their
consorts comprising the Hindu pantheism? For an
explanation we must refer to the sacred books of the
Hindus.
Let ns first rake the account given in the Vamana
Purana. Siva, we are told, was deprived of his man­
hood by the curse of the holy sages in the Daruvanam
forest. When wandering about in disguise, he con­
fronted the sages, who failed to recognize him. To
them he was an ordinary mortal. They said:
“ May the Lingam of this man fall to the
ground! That instant the Lingam of Siva fell to
the ground, and the god immediately disappeared.
The Lingam, then, as it fell, penetrated through
the lower worlds, and increased in height until its
1 Raja Rajendraldla Mitra, The Antiquities of Orissa, Calcutta. 1875,
p. 147m
a The similarity between this word and the vulgar English synonym
for the female pudendum is apparent.
188
X
I
[Face page 188.
S
Y
M
B
O
L
I
C
A
L
W
O
R
S
H
I
P
Cl-
T
U
L
L
IN
O
A
N
A
M
)
Y
O
M
IX
C
O
M
B
IN
A
T
IO
N
.
I-rom
Pavno
Knight.
Worship
of
Friapus
(1780).
THE PHALLIC GODS OF INDIA 189
top towered above the heavens; the earth quaked,
and all things movable and immovable were agita­
ted. On perceiving which Brahma hastened to the
sea of milk, and said to Vishnu— *Say, why does
the universe thus tremble? ' Hari replied— *On
account of the falling of Siva's Lingam, in conse­
quence of the curse of the holy and divine sages.'
On hearing of this most wonderful event, Brahma
said— ‘ Let us go and behold this Lingam.' The
two gods then repaired to Daruvanam; and, on
beholding it without beginning or end, Vishnu
mounted the King of birds and descended into the
lower regions in order to ascertain its base; and,
for the purpose of discovering its top, Brahma on
a lotus ascended the heavens; but they returned
from their search wearied and disappointed, and
together approaching the Lingam, with due rever­
ence and praises, entreated Siva to resume his Lin­
gam. Thus propitiated, that god appeared in his
own form ana said— *If gods and men will worship
my Lingam, I will resume it; but not otherwise/
To this proposal Vishnu, Brahma, and the gods
assented.1
'
The story presented in the Shiva Purana is somewhat
different. Thus:*
*
*
*On falling in consequence of the sages' curse,
the Lingam became like fire, and caused a confla­
gration wherever it penetrated; the three worlds
were distressed, and as neither gods nor sages could
find rest, they hastened for protection to Brahma.
Having heard them relate all that had happened,
Brahma replied: *After having committed know­
ingly a reprehensible act, why say that it was done
190 PHALLIC WORSHIP
unknowingly? for who that is adverse to Siva shall
enjoy happiness, and yet when he came as a guest
at noonday you received him not with due hon­
ours. But every one shall reap the fruit of his good
or bad actions, and the Lingam therefore shall not
cease to distress the three worlds until it is resumed
by that god. Do ye therefore adopt such means
as you think best for restoring tranquillity to the
universe/ The gods said, 4But, O Lord, what
means ought we to adopt? ’ Brahma replied: ‘ Pro­
pitiate by adoration the mountain-born goddess,
and she will then assume the form of the Yoni and
receive this Lingam, by which means alone it can
be rendered innocuous. Should you thus obtain
her favourable assistance, then form a vessel of the
eight kinds of leaves, place in it boiled rice and
sacred plants; and having filled it with holy water,
consecrate proper prayers and invocations, and
with this water, repeating at the same time suitable
prayers, sprinkle the Lingam. After, also, Parvati
shall have under the form of the Yoni received the
Lingam, do you erect and consecrate the form of
a Lingam in the Yoni; and, by worshipping it with
offerings of flowers, perfumes and such things, by
kindling lamps before it, and by singing and music,
propitiate Maheshwara, and thus will the forgive­
ness and favour of that god be undoubtedly at­
tained/ Having heard these words, the gods and
sages hastened to implore the protection of Siva
and the assistance of Parvati, as directed by Brah­
ma; and these deities having been propitiated,
Parvati, under the form of the Yoni, received the
Lingam and thus appeased its consuming fire; and
in commemoration of this event was instituted the
worship of the Lingam.”
THE PHALLIC GODS OF INDIA
Again is there presented, this time in the Lainga
Purana, another account.
4
4Said Brahma to the angels, when I sprang
into existence, I beheld the mighty Narayana re­
posing on the abyss of waters, and, being under
the influence of delusion, awakened him with my
hand and thus addressed him : 4Who art thou that
thus slumberest on this terrible ocean?' Hari
awoke, and, dispelling sleep from his lotus eyes,
looked upon me, and then arising said: 4Welcome,
welcome, O Pitamaha, my dear son! ' On hearing
the first of the gods thus speak, I, confined within
the bonds of the quality of impurity, replied:
4Why dost thou say, my dear son? for know me to
be the eternal god, the universal spirit, the creator,
the preserver, and destroyer of the three worlds.'
But he immediately answered: 4Hear the truth,
O four-faced! and learn that it is I who am the
creator, the preserver, and the destroyer, how canst
thou thus forget Narayana the self-existent and
eternal Brahm? but thou committest no fault, for
the error proceeds from the delusion of Maya.'
Hence arose between us a terrible combat amidst
the waters of the deluge, where, to appease the con­
test and recall us to our senses, appeared a Lingam
blazing like a thousand suns. Bewildered by its
radiant beams, Hari thus said to me, lost in amaze­
ment, 41 will proceed downwards in order to ascer­
tain the termination of this wondrous column of
fire, do thou, O lord, proceed upwards and seek for
its top.' Having thus spoken he assumed the form
of a boar, and I that of a swan, and we both prose­
cuted our search for four thousand years, but being
unable to ascertain its termination, we then re-
I 9 I
194 PHALLIC WORSHIP
It is, too, worthy of note that the first coins to be circu­
lated in India by the English, says Sir George Birdwood,
“ were of copper, stamped with the figure of an irradi­
ated Lingam, the phallic ‘ Roi Soleil.’ ”l
h i
Lingam versus Yoni
There was much rivalry between those who held that
the male clement was alone responsible for the creation
of life, and those who just as firmly adhered to the
hypothesis that the female element was the one cither
mainly or solely concerned. From the Sacred Books
we gather that a quarrel between Mahadeva and Par-
vati was responsible for the division of the people into
these two types of worshippers.
“ This divine pair had once a dispute on the
comparative influence of the sexes in producing
animated beings, and each resolved, by mutual
agreement, to create apart a new race of men. The
race produced by Mahadeva was very numerous,
and devoted themselves exclusively to the worship
of the male deity; but their intellects were dull,
their bodies feeble, their limbs distorted, and their
complexions of different hues. Parvati had at the
same time created a multitude of human beings
who adored the female power only, and were all
well shaped, with sweet aspects and fine com­
plexions. A furious contest ensued between the
two races, and the Lingajas were defeated in battle.
But Mahadeva, enraged against the Yonijas, would
have destroyed them with the fire of his eyes, if
1 Report on the Old Records of the India Office, 1890. p. aan .
THE PHALLIC CODS OF INDIA >95
Parvati had not interposed, and appeased him : but
he would spare them only on condition that they
should instantly leave the country, with a promise
to see it no more; and from the Yoni, which they
adored as the sole cause of their existence, they
were named Yavanas.”
In accordance with this legend1 we find in ancient
India two sects of worshippers, the Lingayats, worship­
ping the Lingam, the symbol of regeneration, the god
Siva, in the form of the membrum virile; and the Yoni-
jas, worshippers of the female power, i.e. Sakti or
energy, functioning in Parvati or Durga, whose symbol
is the Yoni or the pudendum muliebre.
These Lingayats (also called Lingawauts, Saivas, and
Jangams), as a distinctive mark of their faith, wore a
phallic emblem upon some part of their dress or per­
son. The emblem was made of gold, silver, copper or
beryl. It was, in many cases, identical with the fasci-
num of the ancient Romans, and the jettatura of
modern Italy. The sect was founded by Basava in the
eleventh century and it gained in popularity with giant
strides.
The Vaishnavas and Saktas (followers of Vishnu)
wore similar emblems. According to the tenets of their
faith, Vishnu, and not Brahma, was the superior deity,
being responsible for the existence of Brahma and of
all created things.
The Yonijas worshipped the female Sakti or power
exclusively. Wherever possible, the representative of
Vishnu in the shape of a naked girl was used, but where
a living female was unobtainable, the worship of a
1 Higgins (Anacalypsis) is of opinion that in this legend probably lies
the origin of the Greek fable concerning the war between the gods and
the giants, or sons of the earth, which, according to Nonnus, had its
origin in India. (Sec also Asiatic Researches, Vol. Ill, p. 361.)
PHALLIC WORSHIP
symbol in the form of an image of the pudendum muii-
ebre (Yoni) had to suffice.
Uma, the wife or consort of Siva, was the mother of
the universe, representing Sakti, the female principle.
She was equivalent to the fertility or mother-goddesses
of other nations— Isis, Io, Astarte, Mylitta, Sara, Ishtar,
Meriam, Hera, Cybcle, Ceres, Rhea, Frigga, et al.
Mitra rays:
“ She is equal to the godhead, because creation
cannot be accomplished without her, and she is
greater than God, because she sets him into action.
Sakti gives strength to Siva; without her he could
not stir a straw. She is therefore the cause of Siva.
Again, ‘ of the two objects which are eternal the
greater is the Sakti/ Mysticism revelled in these
ideas, and developed them into a variety of forms.
By herself Uma is a maiden or mother; united with
the Godhead, she produces the androgynous figure
of Ardhanarisvara, the left half of a female joined
along the mesian line to the right half of a male
figure. Now, Rudra having been identified with
the male principle, she necessarily becomes his
wife, and as a symbol of the former is the Lingam,
that of the latter is Yoni, which appears in art as
the crescent, the star, the circle, the oval, the tri­
angle, the door, the ark, the ship, the fish, the
charm, the cave, various fruits, trees, and a host
of other forms alike among the Hindus, the Egyp­
tians and the mystics of Europe.”
A t one time or another there flourished also various
other subsidiary sects. Many of these had compara­
tively few followers. Others had a more or less surrep­
titious existence. Yet again, others flourished for brief
periods, and then, through one reason or another, fell
196
THE PHALLIC GODS OF INDIA 1 9 7
into disfavour. A sect of this nature, called Jougics,
is described by Captain Hamilton.
“ They condemn worldly riches and go naked,
except a bit of cloth about their loins, and some
deny themselves even that, delighting in nastiness
and an holy obscenity, with a great show of sanc­
tity. They never cut nor comb their hair, and be­
smear their bodies and faces with ashes, which
makes them look more like Devils than men. I
have seen a sanctified rascal of seven foot high,
and his limbs well proportioned, with a large tur-
band of his own hair wreathed about his head, and
his body bedawbed with ashes and water, sitting
quite naked under the shade of a tree, with a
pudenda like an ass, and an hole bored through his
prepuce, with a large gold ring fixed in the hole.
This fellow was much revered by numbers of young
married women, who, prostrating themselves be­
fore the living Priapus, and taking him devoutly
in their hands, kist him, whilst his bawdy owner
strokt their silly heads, muttering some filthy
prayers for their prolification.” 1
The majority of the Hindu phallic worshippers, how­
ever, believed in the joint responsibility of the male
and female principles, and, as time went on, the mem­
bers of this section naturally grew ever more numerous.
They represented the union of the sexes— which ac­
counted for creation and reproduction— by the union
of the symbols of the male and female principles, in the
form of the Lingam-Yoni combination. The leaders
of the sect, says Lieutenant Wilford, in their attempts
to reconcile the two systems, tell us, in their allegorical
style, that Parvati and Mahadeva found their concur-
1 A New Account of the East Indies, Edinburgh, 1727, Vol. I, p. 152.
PIIALLIC W O R SH IP
rencc essential to the perfection of their offspring, and
that Vishnu, at the request of the goddess, effected a
reconciliation between them: hence the navel of Vishnu,
by which they mean the os tineas, is worshipped as one
and the same with the sacred Yoni.1
A sect of Brahmans, called Seyvias, worshipped the
phallic deity Eswara, who is represented, in the temples
devoted to his worship, Munder a very immodest shape,
expressing commerce of the sexes.” According to tradi­
tion, on one occasion, a Moniswara, visiting the temple
of Eswara, at a time when the god was engaged in sex­
ual intercourse with Parvati, and in consequence being
refused admission, broke out into an imprecation that
whoever should worship Eswara under the above-
mentioned shape, might receive greater advantage than
if he worshipped the god under his proper image. It
was to this episode that the scandalous and indecent
images, under which Eswara came to be worshipped,
owed their origin.2
I
V
198
IV
The Nature of the Hindu Phallic Emblems
In most cases the Lingam was merely a block of
stone of the conventional shape of the erect phallus,
set upon a pedestal, and suggesting to the uninitiated
observer no connexion whatever with the male organ
of copulation. In some cases, however, some attempt at
elaboration was made. In the Great Pagoda of Madura,
the representative of the deity is a block of black
granite, four feet in height, and conical in shape, uwith
the outlines of a human face on the top, and a gold
• Asiatic Researches, London, 1799, Vol. III. p. 363.
9 Thomas Broughton, Historical Dictionary of Religions, l-ondon, 1741.
PI
.ATI*:
W
i
l
l
Juice page i «»S.
M
.K
X
A
D
K
W
O
R
S
H
I
P
P
1
XC.
T
H
K
GOI>
P
A
X
CKRKM
OXI
A
l.
P
H
A
1
.L
1
C
W
O
R
S
H
IP
IX
IX
T
H
K
FORM
OK
HKRMKS.
I
XDI
A.
From
Marietta,
Traite
ties
Pierres
Gravies
From
Moor,
Hindu
Pantheon
(1S10).
(Paris,
1750).
• *
arch over it, carved in open work, resembling the
glory.” 1
Apparently these Lingams were invariably con­
structed of durable materials. The reason for this is
indicated in the intention of the worshippers that all
such structures should be of a permanent nature. It is
stated in the Shastras that once a Lingam has been fixed
to the ground, it should remain there for ever; its re­
moval from this original position destroying the sanctity
of the symbol and constituting an act of desecration.
Thus, in every part of India, there is the greatest abhor­
rence to disturbing a Lingam.2
Captain Pogson states that from time immemorial the
Hindus have worshipped Brahma, the creator; Vishnu,
the preserver; and Siva, the destroyer, as emblems of
the one and only god, Brimh, typified by the Lingam,
the source of all life. Three faces are found engraved
upon the one god: denoting the care of the creator, the
benignity of the preserver, and the severity of the de­
stroyer. Similarly the Lingam comprises three parts:
rhe pedestal, the cup, and the small pillar in the cup,
representing respectively Brahma, Vishnu and Siva.3
At Benares, the temple receiving the most reverence
of all, says Sherring, is the one dedicated to the god
Bisheswar, whose image is the Lingam, a plain conical
stone set on end. Bisheswar, who is merely Siva under
another name, is the reigning deity of the city. He is
invariably worshipped through a phallic symbol.4
* Archxologia. 1792, Vol. X, p. 452.
* Mitra, op. cit., p. 71. From the observations of Sir John Woodroffe
(Arthur Avalon), it would seem that the Hindus recognized Lingams
(AnSdilingas) which appeared supcrnaturally as well as those constructed
by man. The supernatural or “ self-existent ” type were faultless
specimens. See Principles of Tantra, edited with an introduction and
commentary by Arthur Avalon, Luzac & Co., London, 1914, Vol. I,
p. 202n.
* A History of the Boondelas, Calcutta, 1828.
* M. A. Sherring, The Sacred City of the Hindus, 1868, p. 152.
TH E PH ALLIC CO D S OF INDIA 19 9
200 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Lieutenant-Colonel James Tod mentions seeing a
huge cylinder of red freestone covered with miniature
Lingams. It was looked upon as “ a multiform symbol
of Mahadeva, and called Koteswara, meaning “ with a
million of Lingams/*1
The symbolism which interprets almost any upright
object as a phallus was as insistent in India as in all
other countries addicted to phallic worship. A hill or a
mountain might, on occasion, be held to represent a
phallic god. Thus because Mount Kailasa, in the
Tibetan Himalayas, is thought to resemble a Lingam
in shape, both Siva and his consort, Parvati, are sup­
posed to reside there. Devotees of these deities make
pilgrimages to this sacred mountain.2
1 Travels in Western India, 1839, p. 333.
2 C. H. Tawncy, The Ocean of Story, 1924, Vol. f, p. 2n.
THE PHALLIC CODS OF INDIA 201
The Yoni, or symbol of Sakti, the feminine element
in nature, was worshipped either separately or in com­
bination with the Lingam. A ring, a circle, a cleft, a
dove, an ark: 1 all were emblems of the feminine, and
each was termed a Yoni.
The manner in which objects arc symbolized as
representatives of the Hindu triad, Brahma, Vishnu,
and Siva, is described by Buchanan:
“ So peculiar are the effects of this impure wor­
ship on the minds of the Hindus, that they are dis­
posed to symbolize the objects of nature in a
manner analogous to it. If a man digs a pond, he
considers it as a Yoni, or emblem of female nature,
and he consecrates it by fixing in it a mast decor­
ated with a chaplet of flowers. The sea, or a well,
or a cave, conveys a similar type. A mountain,
obelisk, or anything conical, excites the idea of
the Lingam. Thus in like manner as Christians
spiritualize natural scenes for an edifying purpose,
the Hindus sensualize the objects of nature ”2
The ark (arghd) appears to have become symbolical
of the female element or Sakti. How this occurred is
revealed in the before-mentioned Puranas.
“ Satyavrata having built the ark, and the flood
increasing, it was made fast to the peak of Nau-
Bandha with a cable of a prodigious length. Dur­
ing the flood, Brahma or the creating power was
asleep at the bottom of the abyss: the generative
powers of nature, both male and female, were re­
duced to their simplest elements, the Lingam and
1 For a consideration of the phallic significance of the ark of Noah
see p. 144.
* An Apology for Promoting Christianity in India, 1813, p. 49.
202 PHALLIC WORSHIP
the Yoni, assumed the shape of the hull of a ship
since typified by the Argha; whilst the Lingam
became the mast. In this manner they were
washed over the deep, under the care and protec­
tion of Vishnu. When the waters had retired, the
female power in nature appeared immediately in
the character of Capotcswari, or the dove, and she
was soon joined by her consort, in the shape of
Capotcswara.”
The female vulva is represented by the ring, the
circle, or the triangle. Similarly, any cleft or fissure is,
in some circumstances, interpreted as signifying the
Yoni, through its fancied resemblance to the female
opening. In Moor's Hindu Pantheon, we read of a cleft
rock situated at the extremity of a promontory called
Malabar Point, to which worshippers resort “ for the
purpose of regeneration by the efficacy of a passage
through this sacred type." In the same authoritative
work we are informed that when Ragonaut Rao (col­
loquially referred to as Ragoba), during his exile from
Poona, was living in Bombay, he built on Malabar Hill
a tower, in which he lived. He was in the habit
occasionally of passing his body through the cleft, and
was said to have benefited much by such regeneration.
It is also related that Sivaji, the founder of the Mahrata
state, was known to venture secretly upon the island of
Bombay, at a time when discovery would have meant
his ruin, in order to avail himself of the benefit of this
efficacious transit.1
It appears from what Lieutenant Wilford has to say
on the subject, that the original idea was to construct of
pure gold a life-size statue of the female principle,
either in the shape of a woman or a cow. In this statue
1 Edward Moor, The Hindu Pantheon, i£u>, p. 397.
[Face page 202
F
R
A
O
M
K
N
T
O
F
S
t
T
L
r
i
T
R
K
r
o
i
NI)
O
N
T
H
K
I
S
L
A
N
D
O
F
I
I
.
K
P
H
A
N
T
A
.
n
i
:
a
k
B
o
m
b
a
y
.
From
Payne
Knight,
Worship
of
Ptiapits
(17S0).
See
text
page
203.
the individual desiring regeneration was enclosed, and
then dragged forth through the usual channel. The
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out this
method induced the priests to decree that it was
sufficient to make an image of the sacred Yoni, through
which a person could pass, hence the use of the ring,
the triangle and a cleft in the rocks. Stones with cir­
cular holes in them, similar to the “ holed stones” of
Ireland and Cornwall (cf. p. 234) were also used for this
purpose.
In some cases the Lingam and the Yoni were wor­
shipped together in the form of an upright emblem of
the phallus upon an argha or shell-shaped Yoni. This
double symbol was sometimes termed the Pulleiar. It
was, according to Davenport, greatly venerated by the
worshippers of Siva.1
Upon the island of Elephanta, near Bombay, there
is a remarkable and magnificent pagoda, dedicated to
the worship of the sun-god, Siva. In this rock-cut
temple is a phallic pillar. It has often been described.
Treproduce one such description here.
“ In the middle of the room stands a base or
altar (vedi) nine feet nine inches square, moulded
similarly to the bases under the trimurti, and other
sculptures, and about three feet high. In the
centre of this is placed the Lingam, cut from a
stone of a harder and closer grain than that in
which the cave is executed. The lower end of the
Lingam is two feet ten inches square, and is fitted
into a hole in the vedi or base; the upper portion is
circular, of the same diameter, about three feet in
height, and rounded above. This plain stone, the
* John Davenport, Remarks on the Symbols of the Reproductive
Poivers, 1869.
THE PHALLIC GODS OF INDIA 20$
2 0 4 PHALLIC WORSHIP
mysterious symbol representative of Siva as the
male energy of production or source of the genera­
tive power in nature— as the Yoni or circle in
which it stands is of the passive or female power—
is the idol of this temple, the central object of
worship, to which everything else is only accessory
or subsidiary. The Shalunka or top of the pedestal
is somewhat hollowed towards the Lingam to re­
ceive the oil, ghi, etc., poured on it by worshippers,
and which arc carried off by a spout or pranalika
on the north side that is now broken off.” *
The Lingam and Yoni were also worshipped in com­
bination at Elora, as the following eyewitness's account
plainly indicates:
“ The principal object of worship at Elora is the
stone so frequently spoken of, the Lingam of ‘ the
changer of things,' Mahadcva (literally the great
God), Siva. It is a symbol of him in his generative
character; the base is inserted in the Yoni; the
Ling is of a conical shape, and often a black stone,
covered with flowers (the Bella and Asaca shrubs);
the flowers hang pendant from the crowm of the
ling-stone to the spout of the ArghaorYoni (mysti­
cal matrix); not a whit better than the phallus of
the Greeks and its ceremonies. Whatever enthus­
iasts may say to the contrary, this symbol is grossly
indecent, and abhorrent to every moral feeling,
let the subject be glossed over as it may. Five
lamps are commonly used in worship (Puja) at this
symbol, but frequently one lamp having five wicks.
Often the lotus is seen on top of the ling. The
water that the Argha holds (the pedestal in which
the Ling is inserted), is emblematical of Vishnu,
1 J. Burgess, T h e R ock Temples o f Elephanta, Bombay, 1871. pp. 17*18
THE PHALLIC GODS OF INDIA 2 0 5
and the dent or orifice in the frame (Yoni) or rim,
is called the navel of Vishnu.”1
In certain cases, however, something more than a
symbol seems to have been required. Thus those phal­
lic worshippers who belonged to the Vamachara cult
were not satisfied with the cylindrical upright fixed
upon a horizontal stone; they considered that a “ dis­
tinct female figure, to serve as the consort of the Lin-
gam, was essential”2 (see p. 210).
Somewhat analogously, the fakirs, or monks, so uni­
versally worshipped in India, were accustomed to sit in
the temples and have their private parts kissed by their
devotees.
v
The Rites of Hindu Phallicism
In the Sacred Hindu Books a specific ritual, to be
carried out by all worshippers of the Lingam, was
elaborated. For the following abridged account of
this ritual, as delineated in the Lainga Purana, I am
indebted to Vans Kennedy’s interesting work on Hindu
mythology.
M
Having bathed in the prescribed manner, enter
the place of worship; and, having performed three
suppressions of the breath, meditate on that god
who has three eyes, five heads, ten arms, and is of
the colour of pure crystal, arrayed in costly gar­
ments, and adorned with all kinds of ornaments:
and having thus fixed in thy mind the real form
* John B. Seely, The Wonders of Elora, 1824, pp. 291*2.
* Mitra, op. cit., p. 71.
20 6 PHALLIC WORSHIP
of Maheshwara, proceed to worship him with the
proper prayers and hymns. First, sprinkle the
place and utensils of worship with a bunch of
darbha dipped in perfumed water, repeating at the
same time the sacred word OM, and arrange all the
utensils and other things required in the prescribed
order; then in due manner, and repeating the
proper invocations, prayers and hymns, preceded
by the sacred word OM, prepare thy offerings. For
the padiam (water for the ablution of the feet),
these should consist of ushiram, sandal, and similar
sweet-smelling woods; for the achamanam (water
for rinsing the mouth), of mace, camphor, bdel­
lium, and agallochum, ground together; and for
the arghya (a particular kind of oblation, which
consists of different articles in the worship of differ­
ent deities), of the tops of Kusha grass, prepared
grains of rice, barley, sesamum, clarified butter,
pieces of money, ashes and flowers. At the same
time, also, must be worshipped Nandi (the prin­
cipal attendant of Siva) and his wife, the daughter
of Marut. Having then with due rites prepared a
seat, invoke with the prescribed prayers the
presence of Parameshwara, and present to him the
padiam, achamanam, and arghya. Next bathe the
Lingam with perfumed water, the five products of
the cow, clarified butter, honey, the juice of the
sugar-cane, and lastly pour over it a pot of pure
w
rater, consecrated by the requisite prayers. Hav­
ing thus purified it, adorn it with clean garments
and a sacrificial string, and then offer flowers, per­
fumes, frankincense, lamps, fruits, and different
kinds of prepared eatables and ornaments. Thus
worship die Lingam with the prescribed offerings,
invocations, pravers. and hymns, and by circum-
THE PHALLIC CODS OF INDIA 207
ambulating it and by prostrating thyself before
Siva, represented under this symbol.’*
There were many variations in the ritual thus
originally prescribed in the Puranas. According to a
writer in the Asiatick Miscellany (1785), in connexion
with the worship of a black Lingam called Seeb, in the
Visswishor pagoda, a feature of the rites, which in other
respects followed closely those already described, was
the ringing of bells. Not only were the worshippers
called to the temple each morning and evening by the
tolling of bells, but between each prayer a small bell
was tinkled.
Apropos of this reference to the use of bells, it is
interesting to note that Forlong considers that “ no
Lingam-worship can be conducted without the bell.”
He says that “ in union the Lingam and bell give forth
life and sound, as Siva’s priests have confessed to me.
Bell ornamentation is very conspicuous on sacred build­
ings, where it is usually said to represent the mammae,
and denote fertility.” 1 Payne Knight states that the
symbolical statues and temples of the Hindus have bells
attached to them.2
1 J. G. R. Forlong, R ivers o f L ife , 1883, Vol. I, p. 232.
3A n In qu iry in to th e S y m b olica l Language o f A n cie n t A r t and
M y tholog y , 1818. This use of bells in the rites of phallic worship was
not restricted to India. The practice, though a very ancient one, may
have resulted from the use of the sistrum by Isis in driving away
Typhon. Ovid says it was one of the goddess’s special symbols. For
this reason probably it was shaded like a vulva. The ringing of bells
was considered to be effective in driving away evil spirits and as a
preventive of storms. Also, according to Forlong, bells were used in
most churches to denote the movements of the “ Man of God ” (Rivers
o f L ife , p. 211). Virgins were accustomed to wear bells attached to
their garments; so, too, did the Egyptian and Jewish priests. Aaron
wore bells on his robes for protective purposes. In many of the ancient
priapic figures, especially those used as amulets, tiny bells were attached
to the phalli. The tolling of church bells still persists, though few
people are aware of the phallic significance and implications of the
custom.
2 0 8 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Not all Lingam worship was conducted within the
precincts of the temples. In many cases it was associ­
ated with the worship of the Ganges, as Dr. Duff has
pointed out.1 The people, in vast multitudes, of all
sects and castes, hied them every morning to the banks
of the sacred river, there to perform their ablutions and
devotions. Most of them were worshippers of Siva.
They were to be seen performing the rites connected
with the worship of the phallus. There were no per­
manent Lingams erected there for them to worship, nor
did these worshippers bring ready-made phalli with
them. Each took up a piece of clay and moulded it into
the form of a Lingam. As, with practised hands, he
worked the clay into the required shape, he addressed
it thus: “ Siva, I make thy image. Praise to Salpani
(Siva, the holder of the trisula, or trident). O God,
enter into this image; take life within it. Constant
reverence to Mahesa (Siva), whose form is radiant as a
mountain of silver, lovely as the crescent of the moon,
and resplendent with jewels; having four hands, two
bearing weapons (the mace and the trident), a third
conferring blessings, and the fourth dispelling fear:
serene, lotus-seated, worshipped by surrounding deities,
and seated on a tiger’s skin. Reverence to the holder
of the pinaca (a part of the Lingam). Come, O come!
Vouchsafe thy presence, approach, rest, and tarry here.”
By this time, the image being completed to his satisfac­
tion, the worshipper presents flowers to it, prays and
supplicates, and after a final burst of oratorical genu­
flexion, flings the Lingam away.
The essence of phallic worship in India, it has been
stated, is its characteristic symbolism. The Lingam is
considered to be merely a means of bringing the in­
visible god into the presence of the worshipper.
1India, and Indian Missions, Edinburgh, 1839, p. 217.
“ Nothing whatever,” says Vans Kennedy, “ belongs to
its worship, or to the terms in which this is mentioned,
which has the slightest tendency to lead the thoughts
from the contemplation of the god, to an undue con­
sideration of the object by which he is typified.” 1
Now it is largely in view of the alleged innocuous
and somewhat metaphysical nature of this worship that
it has been again and again reiterated and emphasized
that the Lingam and Yoni worship of India cannot be
in any way compared with the priapic worship of
Greece, Rome, Egypt, and many other parts of the
globe. Many even of those who deplore the phallicism
inherent in every form of Hinduism are of opinion
there is no consciously obscene or depraved meaning
associated with the rites peculiar to this worship.
Sir William Jones contends that to the Hindu legis­
lators nothing that was natural could be obscene, “ a
singularity which pervades all their writings, but is no
proof of the depravity of their morals.”2
Despite these opinions and assurances, there are
abundant indications that the ritual laid down in the
Puranas was departed from on many occasions and to
some tune. For instance, the festival held annually by
the Vamachara sect:
“ The great feast, called Siva Ratri, is the period
of the year when the Hindu worship of Venus is
to be performed. The person who wishes to per­
form the sacrifice is to select a beautiful young girl
of any caste, a pariah, a slave, a courtesan, a
nautch girl, would be preferred. She is called
Duti, *angel messenger/ or conciliatrix, being the
medium of intercourse between the worshipper
1 Researches into the Nature and Affinity of Ancient and Hindu
Mythology, 1831, p. 308.
a Works, Vol. II, p. 311.
THE PHALLIC CODS OK INDIA 209
0
210 PHALLIC WORSHIP
and the goddess. She is also called Yogini, or min
— literally ‘ one who has joined/ After fasting
and bathing, she is elegantly dressed and seated on
a carpet. The five acts (wine, flesh, fish, magic and
lewdness) are then performed in order, and the
votary erects a magical diagram, and repeats a spell.
. . . The devotee next meditates on her as Pracriti
(Nature), and on himself as a deity. He offers
prayers to her, and then proceeds to inspire her in
each particular limb with some one goddess, of
the host of goddesses. He adores, in imagination,
every individual part of her person, and, by incan­
tation, lodges a fairy in every limb and member,
and one in the Yoni, as the centre of delight. He
presents her with flesh, fish and wine. He makes
her eat and drink of each, and what she leaves he
cats and drinks himself. He now strips her en­
tirely naked, and strips himself also. He recom­
mences to adore her body anew in every limb; from
this the rite is often termed Chacra Puja, or wor­
ship of the members. He finally adores the Agni
Mandalam (pudendum midiebre) with reverent
language, but lewd gesticulations.” 1
After her defloration the girl is known as a Yogini
(one who is " attached ” to the goddess).
Even more notorious are the members of a lesser
known sect termed the Kdnchuliyas. The following
account of the promiscuity rite which is the main
feature of their ceremony is sufficiently revealing.
“ It is said to be distinguished by one peculiar
rite, the object of which is to confound all the ties
of female alliance, and to enforce not only a com-
1 Edward Scllon, Memoirs of the Anthropological Society of London,
1866, Vol. II, p. 274.
THE PHALLIC CODS OF INDIA 211
munity of women among the votaries, but dis­
regard even to natural restraints. On occasions
of worship the female votaries are said to deposit
their upper vests in a box in charge of the Guru.
A t the close of the usual rites the male worshippers
take each a vest from the box, and the female to
whom the garment appertains, be she ever so
nearly of kin to him, is the partner for the time in
his licentious pleasures.” 1
Describing the sacrifices to the Hindu fertility gods,
the Abbe Dubois refers to the orgies characteristic of
the celebrated temple of Tirupati in the Carnatic, pre­
sided over by the god Vencata Ramana, to which
barren women flock from all parts of India.
“ On their arrival, they apply first of all to the
Brahmans, to whom they disclose the nature of
their pilgrimage, and the object of their vows. The
Brahmans prescribe to the credulous women to
pass the night in the temple, in expectation that,
by their faith and piety, the resident god may
visit them and render them prolific. In the silence
and darkness of the night, the Brahmans, as the
vicegerents of the god, visit the women, and in
proper time disappear. In the morning, after due
inquiries, they congratulate them on the benignant
reception they have met with from the god; and,
upon receiving the gifts which they have brought,
take leave of them, with many assurances that the
object of their vows will speedily be accomplished.
The women, having no suspicion of the roguery
of the Brahmans, go home in the full persuasion
that they have had intercourse with the divinity
of the temple, and that the god who has deigned
1 Horace Hayman Wilson, Works, I^ondon, 1862, Vol. I. p. 263.
212 PHALLIC WORSHIP
to visit them must have removed all impediments
to their breeding.” 1
Bell tells us that the ceremonies connected with the
worship of the idol Giagannat, which resides in a temple
situated in a town of the same name, involve present­
ing to him as wives the most beautiful virgins available.
These young women arc shut up in the temple with the
god, and they “ never fail, through the care and assidu­
ities of the priests, to come out pregnant ”2
Signor Pietro della Valle, a seventeenth-century ob­
server, visited a temple dedicated to an idol called
Virena Deuru. His description of this temple is best
given in his own words:
“ In the body of the temple were many other
wooden statues of less idols, placed about in several
places, as ’twere for ornament, some of which were
figures of their gods, others not of gods, but for
ornament, of several shapes. Many of these figures
represented dishonest actions. One was of a
Woman, lifting up her clothes before, and showing
that which Modesty obliged her to cover. Another
was of a man and a woman kissing, the man hold­
ing his hand on the woman’s breasts: another had
a man and a woman naked, with their hands on
one another’s shameful parts, those of the man
being of excessive greatness, and sundry such
representations fit indeed for such a temple.”3
It is noteworthy that the writer of the article on
“ Brahmanism ” in the Catholic Encyclopaedia says, in
reference to temples dedicated to the worship of Siva
1Description of the Character, Manners, and Customs of the People
of India, London, 1817, pp. 410-11.
3The Neto Pantheon, Ix>ndon, 1790.
* Travels into East India, 1665, p. 114.
THE PHALLIC GODS OF INDIA 213
and Vishnu, that the interior walls are “ covered with
shocking representations of sexual passion,” and the
worship of Durga-Kali (the consort of Siva) “ degen­
erated into shocking orgies of drunkenness and sexual
immorality, which even to-day are the crying scandal
of Hinduism” 1 (cf. p. 219).
Seely says “ there is nothing too depraved or lascivi­
ous for the Hindu mind to contemplate and describe.”2
According to Captain Hamilton, the temples of the
phallic god Gopalsami were decorated with obscene
effigies of men and women in indescribably indecent
postures, and of demons whose genital parts were of
prodigious size in proportion to their bodies.3 The
same authority mentions seeing, in the town of Gan-
jam, a pagoda, containing a huge image of the same
god, Gopalsami. This deity is sometimes carried in
procession through the streets, and on the coach in
which he sits, there are pictures of gods and goddesses
in copulation, similar to those in his temple. One of
his attendants on the coach has a stick about two feet
in length, one end of which is carved in the shape of a
phallus. The stick is placed between the idol’s legs,
with the end sticking out before him. Virgins and
childless married women come and worship the stick,
and the priests bestow blessings on them to make them
fruitful.4
It is in the sacrificial rites that are exhibited perhaps
the most extreme acts of licentiousness. And of all
the forms of sacrifice which the Hindus have practised
that particular brand connected with the worship of
Juggernaut5 (the lord of the world) is the most remark-
1 This article was written in the year 1907.
* The IVonders of Elora, p. 281.
9A New Account of the East Indies, 1727, p. 381.
4 Ibid., p. 379.
9Also termed Juggernath and Jugat-Nath.
214 PHALMC WORSHIP
able, the most diabolically cruel, and, at the same time,
the most licentious. Juggernaut is really Vishnu mas­
querading under another name, and the main temple
delegated to his worship was in Orissa, at a spot near
the mouth of the Ganges. Once a year, and sometimes
oftener, the image of the god is mounted upon wheels
and dragged in procession by a number of selected wor­
shippers. The idol is a huge affair, of frightful appear­
ance. In addition, two other idols, only slightly smaller
and less hideous in appearance than Juggernaut him­
self, are similarly dragged in procession. All along
the route, worshippers cast themselves under the wheels
of the car bearing the main idol, to the cheering of
thousands of spectators. They suffer fearful injuries
or are crushed to death. Besides the festival held at the
headquarters of the god, there arc similar celebrations
staged in every village and town throughout Bengal,
so that, as Dr. Duff avers, " there are not merely hun­
dreds of thousands, but literally millions, simultane­
ously engaged in the celebration of orgies, so stained
with licentiousness and blood, that, in the comparison,
we might almost pronounce the Bacchanalia of Greece
and Rome innocent and pure! ”
The outside celebrations and sacrifices do not, how­
ever, terminate the orgies. The more purely phallic
procedures take place in the temple of the god himself.
At the conclusion of the procession, the Brahmans
select the most beautiful maiden available for the bride
of Juggernaut. She accompanies the god into his
temple, remaining with him the whole night. She is
told by the Brahmans that Juggernaut will lie with
her, and is commanded to inquire of him if the year
will be a fruitful one, and what exactly should be the
nature of the festivities, the prayers, and the offerings
which he requires in return for his bounty. In the
night, says Bernier, one of the Brahmans enters the
temple by means of a secret door, enjoys the unsus­
pecting girl, and tells her the nature of the god’s re­
quirements. The following morning, during her pro­
gress to another temple, to which she is carried with
the usual pomp and magnificence, she is requested by
the Brahmans to proclaim aloud to the people “ all she
has heard from the lustful priest, as if every word had
proceeded from the mouth of Juggernaut.” 1 (See also
Chapter IV for particulars of temple prostitution in
India.)
Captain Campbell says of the celebrated pagoda of
Juggernaut:
“ It is an immense barbarous structure of a kind
of pyramidal form, embellished with devices cut in
stone work, not more singular than disgusting.
To keep pace with the figures of their idols a chief
Brahman, by some artificial means (by herbs I
believe) has brought to a most unnatural form, and
enormous dimensions, that which decency forbids
me to mention; and the pure and spotless wxrnien,
who from their infancy have been shut up from
the sight of men, even of their brothers, are
brought to kiss that disgusting and shapeless
monster, under the preposterous belief that it
promotes fecundity.”
Rajcndralala Mitra states that in the temples of
Orissa were depictions of “ human couples in most dis­
gustingly obscene positions,”2 and again, at the. Great
Temple of Puri, “ a few of the human figures are dis­
gustingly obscene.”3 Similarly, at Madras, are pagodas
1 Travels in the M o g u l Empire, 1826, Vol. II, p. 7.
* The Antiquities of Orissa, p. 48.
* Ibid., p. 118.
THE PHALLIC CODS OF INDIA 215
2 l6 PHALLIC WORSHIP
devoted to phallic worship. Of these, says a seven­
teenth century writer: “ on the walls of good sculpture
were obscene images, where Aretino might have fur­
nished his fancy for his bawdy postures.” 1
One of the most extraordinary and repulsive of the
fertility rites was that connected with the sacrifice of
a horse to the deity. An animal specially selected for
the purpose was allowed to roam at large for a vear
before it was offered in sacrifice. It was secured to the
sacrificial post and smothered. A woman, usually the
leading lady of the district, was then compelled to lie
down alongside the corpse of the animal. Both woman
and horse were then carefully and completely covered
with a large sheet of opaque material. “ In that position
she performed a very obscene act with the horse sym­
bolizing the transmission to her of its great powers of
fertility!”3
V
I
VI
Modern Hindu Phallic Worship
Although the more extravagant, realistic, and frankly
obscene rites connected with Hindu phallidsm, so far,
at any rate, as their public expression is concerned, have
been put down by the British Government, there is no
doubt that a good deal of surreptitious sex worship still
goes on. Referring to the places devoted to Lingam
worship, Garrett says: “ Some of these shrines still re­
tain their reputation, as the temple of Vaidyanath in
Bengal, where an annual Mela takes place at the Siva-
ratri, where more than 100,000 pilgrims assemble.”3
1 John Fryer, A New Account of East India and Persia, 1698. p. 39.
3C. H. Tawncy. The Ocean of Story, 1924, Vol. IV, p. 16.
9 John Garrett, Classical Dictionary of India (Supplement), Madras,
1873.
THE PHALLIC CODS OF INDIA 217
During the course of the notorious Maharaj libel
case, in 1862, many details respecting the sexual orgies
connected with modern Hindu phallic worship were
divulged by the witnesses. The action was brought by
a Brahman named Jadunathjce Brizrattanjee Maharaj
against the editor of the Satya Prakash (Light of
Truth), a native newspaper published in Bombay, in
respect of an alleged libel, published on October 21st,
i860, concerning the sexual promiscuity which it
asserted was practised at the meetings of members of
the sect of Vallabhacharyas, worshippers of the god
Krishna.1 In the course of the trial, it was stated that
the members of the sect believed that Vallabhacharya
was an incarnation of Krishna, and that the Maharajs,
being descendants of Vallabhacharya, claimed to be
and were accepted as incarnations of the god by
hereditary succession. A mystic rite, in which the
“ mind, property and body” of the worshipper were
dedicated to the personification of Krishna, was popu­
larly interpreted as implying that the Maharajs possess
absolute rights over their followers, and, as the judge
remarked in his summing up, the Maharajs appeared
to have availed themselves of these beliefs and impres­
sions to gratify licentious propensities. “ Adultery be­
tween god and the creature,” pointed out Mr. Anstey,
counsel for the defence, in the ethical code of the
Vallabhacharyas was “ sinful neither to god nor the
creature.” Something analogous to the nature of the
jus primse noctis was apparently implicit in the tenets
of the faith, for in the sacred book, Sidhant Rasya, it is
stated: “ consequently before he himself has enjoyed
her, he should make over his lawful wife to the Achayria
(i.e., the Maharaj) and he should also make over his
sons and daughters; after having got married he should
1 Krishna was reputed to have 16,000 wives, or princesses.
218 PHALLIC WORSHIP
before having himself enjoyed his wife, make an offer­
ing of her to the Maharaj, after which he should apply
her to his own use.” There was abundant evidence
that the members of the sect carried out these com­
mands faithfully. The editor stated on oath: “ It is a
matter of general reputation in the sect that all the
Maharajs have carnal intercourse with the wives and
daughters of their most zealous devotees, girls are sent
to the Maharajs before being touched by their hus­
bands. I know of such instances.” In particular, the
many festivals which were held constituted occasions
for indulgence in sexual orgies. “ During the *Ras*
festival, wives and husbands collect promiscuously in a
room, and have carnal intercourse among them. The
‘ Ras* festival is held three or four times in a month.
The Maharaj has actual sexual intercourse with many
women, and is called their husband.” According to
another witness, the Maharaj selected his temporary
“ wife” from among the worshippers by pressing her
hands with his foot, this being a sign that he wished
to have intercourse with her. “ When the woman looks
towards the Maharaj, he makes signs with his eyes and
smiles, and minding these smiles, the woman goes into
an inner room.” Often permission was granted to
witness the Ras-Lila, as sexual connexion between the
Maharaj and one of his devotees was termed. For this
privilege the witness must contribute some monetary
offering, as also must the female participant in the Ras-
Lila, for, as transpired during the evidence, “ to have
connexion with the Maharaj is considered to lead to
‘ Gowloke’ (the paradise of the 16,000 gopecs).”1
Saktism still persists in India, and although the orgies
which at one time were such a feature of this worship
of the female principle are not now publicly performed,
* Report of the Maharaj Libel Case, Bombay, 1862.
THE PIIALLIC CODS OF INDIA 2 1 9
there is no doubt that a good deal of promiscuity is
E
ractised in secret. In fact, Monier-Williams, just over
alf a century ago, said:
" It is well known that even in the present day,
on particular occasions, the adherents of the sect
go through the whole ceremonial in all its revolt­
ing entirety. When such occasions occur, a circle
is formed, composed of men and women seated
side by side without respect of caste or relationship.
Males and females are held for the particular
occasion to be forms of Siva and his wife respec­
tively, in conformity with the doctrine propounded
in one of the Tantras, where Siva addressing his
wife says: 4All men have my forms and all women
thy form; anyone who recognizes any distinction
of caste in the mystic circle (cakra) has a foolish
soul/,n
Katherine Mayo, writing as recently as 1927, in her
book, Mother India, says:
“ Siva, one of the greatest of the Hindu deities,
is represented on highroad shrines, in the temples,
on the little altar of the home, or in personal
amulets, by the image of the generative organ, in
which shape he receives the daily sacrifices of the
devout.”
In relation to this worship of Siva, Wilkins states
there is still existent the sect known as Vamacharis,
composed of the more dissolute and reprehensible
members of Hindu society. Their rites sanction pro­
miscuity of the most flagrant description. The pro­
ceedings, if the reports concerning them are correct, are
“ quite unfit for publication ”2(see p. 209).
1 Religious Thought and Life in India, 1883, p. 193.
* Modern Hinduism, 1887.
2 2 0 PHALLIC WORSHIP
According to Sir George Birdwood, pillar worship on
the lines of that employed by Jacob at Bethel, “ may
still be witnessed every day, at every turn, in India.”1
The same authority further observes that “ to this day,
in India, a wealthy Hindu, if certain of being son-
less, will set up and endow a Lingam named after him­
self, or his father, in perpetual witness of the family
stock and kin.”2
Magnus Hirschfcld, in writing, in 1935, of his travels
in the East, says: “ In India to-day the highest worship
is accorded the Lingam. In Benares alone, ten thou­
sand of these are set up, not counting the hundreds of
thousands offered by dealers at every price in the most
diverse varieties and materials.”3
Phallic worship still survives in Siam. According to
P. A. Thompson, Lingams, “ often of a grossly realistic
character,” are to be found in the temples. “ Against
certain trees in the jungle,” he says, “ may be seen piles
of phallic emblems rudely carved out of sticks.” 1
1 Journal of the Royal Society of Arts, December 30, 1010, p. 156.
* Ibid.
9Women, East and West, Hcincmann (Medical Books), 1935, p. 180.
4 Lotus Land, Werner Laurie, 1906, p. 113.
C H A P T E R XII
PHALLICISM IN CHINA AN D JAPAN
i
Yang and Yin
The Chinese cosmogony, in anything resembling a
complete metaphysical entity, dates back to the time
of Confucius. That august philosopher was responsible
for the creation of the two governing principles known
as Yang and Yin, leading to the birth of numerous
deities personifying these principles.
According to Confucius, in the beginning, there was
nothing but chaos. Heaven and earth were co-existent
and indistinguishable. There were, however, in this
medley, two distinct forces or principles, the male and
the female, termed by the philosopher Yang and Yin.
Gradually these two principles separated, one ascend­
ing to form heaven, the other descending to create the
earth. Nature resulted from the union of heaven and
earth, or male and female, creating all the animals,
plants, and objects upon the earth and in the heavens.
Heaven was the father and earth the mother.
Every creature produced is in its character depen­
dent upon the precise proportion in which Yang and
Yin are blended. M ’Clatchey states that Kheen or Yang
is the membrum virile and Khwan or Yin is the puden­
dum muliebre. The idea of sex appears to have en­
tered so thoroughly into the Chinese cosmogony that
221
222 PHALLIC WORSHIP
everything, whether animate or inanimate, was con­
sidered to be of sexual origin, and as having sprung
from heaven and earth, the progenitors of all. This
concept was essentially patriarchal: heaven, or the
male principle, being the superior, and the earth, or the
female principle, filling the inferior role.
The next step was the spiritualization of Yang and
Yin. As Light and Darkness, they were deified under
a miscellany of names. Sacrifices were regularly made
to them as fertility deities.
Shang-te, the supreme god of ancient China, was all-
powerful. There seems little doubt that, like the tribal
god of the Hebrews, Shang-te was a pillar god. Among
other phallic gods were Lui-Shin, the spirit of thunder,
equivalent to Vishnu of the Hindus, Jupiter of the
Greeks, and Osiris of the Egyptians. One of the most
important of the nature goddesses was Shing-moo, the
holy mother, or the “ mother of perfect intelligence.”
She was a counterpart of the Egyptian Isis, the Hindu
Ganga, and the Greek Demeter. When the first Chris­
tian missionaries arrived in China, they were shocked
to find that the image of this goddess bore a striking re­
semblance to the Virgin Mary, and they were further
startled and disconcerted to discover that Shing-moo,
too, had conceived and given birth to a saviour son
while yet a virgin.1
The most celebrated of all goddesses, however, is the
famous Kwai-Yin,1
2 worshipped alike by the followers
of both the Shinto and the Buddhist faiths. According
to Sir E. Reed, she was originally bisexual,3 and, like
1 Bernard Picart, Religious Ceremonies and Customs, 1733, Vol. IV,
p. 47a.
2This goddess was worshipped in Japan as Quanwon or Canon.
3 It may be that the earliest conception of this deity was androgynous,
but it would appear that from the time of Confucius Kwai-Yin was
almost universally considered to be essentially and exclusively feminine.
PLAT]-; XX
O K IK X TAL PHALLIC IDOL OF <>UAX\YOX OK KW AI-YIX.
From Ka-mpfer, History of Japan (1728).
See text page 222.
[Face page 222.
most Oriental deities, has a multiplicity of arms. He
puts the figure, in Kwai-Yin’s ease, at a thousand. The
goddess has been referred to by a hundred different
names, the most common of which arc “ Mother of
Mothers,” the wGoddess of a Thousand Arms,” the
“ Yoni of Yonies,” the “ Goddess of Mercy,” the
“ Queen of Heaven,” and the “ Lady of Plenty.”
She is the wife or consort of Shang-te, under whose
guardianship she sits on a throne made of the sacred
Lotus.” God and goddess are rapt in their contem­
plation of the creative work of nature, symbolized in
the womb of the goddess herself, the “ golden vial ”
replete with wondrous treasures, and the “ tree of life.”
" This picture,” writes Forlong, “ is a complete
arcanum of the whole vast mythology, both spirit­
ual and material. Although detailing nearly every
concrete idea of the faith emblematically it ex­
hibits to us a symmetrical and philosophic whole,
even from the solar j a h , dual*God of Light ’ sitting
on his cow-clouds, down to the wombal base, which
rises like a refulgent flower from the waters of
fertility, as does every true Venus.” 1
Practically every characteristic of the Yang-Yin prin­
ciples of nature are exhibited in the attachments or
ornamentations of the goddess. With prodigal liber­
ality she offers to her worshippers and adherents every
product, material or metaphysical, of heaven and earth.
Fruit and flowers, the ark, the sistrum, the symbols of
manhood and womanhood, of religion and of good­
ness : all are there.
According to Kaempfer, she is far and away the most
widely worshipped deity in both China and Japan. The
same authority avers that she is sometimes delineated
1 Rivers of Life, Vol. II, p. 529.
PHALLICISM IN CHINA AND JAPAN 22$
224 PHALLIC WORSHIP
as “ a mass of babies, who seem to grow out of her fin­
gers, toes, and indeed the whole body.”
Temples were erected for the worship of the goddess
in all parts of the two countries, but perhaps the most
remarkable of all is the one at Miako in Japan, known
as the “ Temple of Ten Thousand Idols.” For the fol­
lowing description of it I am indebted to Kaempfcr.
“ In the middle of the pagoda sits a prodigious
black idol, which has six-and-forty arms and hands.
Sixteen black demi-gods, of gigantic stature, are
planted round about him. At some considerable
distance there arc two rows of other idols, one on
the right hand, and the other on the left, which
are all gilt, and all standing. Each idol has several
arms. It is necessary to remark here, that the mul­
tiplicity of arms and hands expresses, or is a sym­
bol of, the power of the idol. Some have a kind
of shepherd's crook in their hands, others garlands,
and all of them one implement or another. Their
heads are surrounded with rays, and there are
seven other figures over them, the middlemost
whereof is less than the rest. In this Pantheon
there are likewise ten or a dozen rows of other
idols, about the common stature of a man, set very
close together, and disposed in such a manner that
they gradually ascend, in order that all of them
may be equally conspicuous, and attract the eyes
of the devotees.”1
Kwai-Yin is represented in a figure with seven heads
and a multiplicity of arms and hands.
*E. Kaempfcr, The History of Japan, 1718.
PHALLICISM IN CHINA AND JAPAN 225
II
The Festival of Agriculture and the
Worship of the Bull
A couple of centuries before the birth of Christ,
there was instituted in China, by the reigning monarch
of the time, a curious anniversary known as the Festi­
val of Agriculture. In Pekin it was customary to sacri­
fice a living cow in the Tee-Tan, or temple, dedicated
to the earth, while, at the same time, in smaller towns
throughout the country, the figure of a cow, made of
baked clay and of prodigious size, was carried in trium­
phal procession through the streets, followed by the
whole of the inhabitants. The cow's horns and hoofs
were gilded, and ornamented with silken ribbons.
Finally, the clay image was taken into the temple, and,
after suitable offerings had been placed on the altar,
the cow was broken into pieces by the officiating priest.
These pieces were distributed among the worshippers.1
The practice closely resembles that among the ancient
Egyptians of breaking up the image of an ox, represent­
ing Osiris, at the festivals held in honour of Isis, and
distributing the fragments among the priests.
The bull worship of ancient Japan was just as essen­
tially phallic as the bull worship of Persia, of Egypt, of
Judea (cf. Chapter X).
“ There is a pagod at Miaco, in Japan,” writes
Picart, “ consecrated to a hieroglyphic bull, which
is placed on a large square altar, and composed of
solid gold: his neck is adorned with a very costly
collar; but that, indeed, is not the principal object
that commands our attention. The most remark-
1 John Barrow, Travels in China, 1804, p. 478.
P
2 2 6 PHALLIC WORSHIP
able thing is the egg, which he pushes with his
horns, as he grips it between his fore-feet. This
bull is placed on the summit of a rock, and the egg
floats in some water, which is enclosed within the
hollow space of it. The egg represents the chaos;
and what follows is the illustration which the
doctors of Japan have given to the hieroglyphic.
The whole world at the time of the chaos, was en­
closed within the egg, which swam upon the sur­
face of the waters. The moon, by virtue of her
light, and her other influences, attracted from the
bottom of these waters a terrestrial substance,
which was insensibly converted to a rock, and by
that means the egg rested upon it. The bull ob­
serving this egg, broke the shell of it, by goring it
with his horns, and so created the world, and by
his breath the human species.”1
hi
The Phallic Cult of Japan
The primitive religion of Japan comprised a hier­
archy of spiritual deities, reminiscent of those con­
nected with the Hindu cosmogony. This developed
into the deification of heroes, a form of ancestor wor­
ship, implying an elaborate anthropomorphic poly­
theism. The Shinto cult, as it came to be called, was,
for centuries, the predominant religion, though a rival
faith, in the shape of a form of Buddhism, also became
popular.
Perhaps the most marked feature of Shintoism was
the animal worship which featured so largely in its
rites. So powerful a feature was this reverence for
1 Jte/f'gipu* Ceremonies, Vol. IV, p. 303.
animals, that in view of the comparative scarcity of
fauna in Japan, imaginary animals and birds were
universally and extensively worshipped: thus the
creation of the dragon, the kirm, and the foo.
Rougemont describes the Shinto worship as “ profane,
earthly, epicurean, which desires not to be tormented
by the fear of God, which only celebrates joyous fes­
tivals; which is characterized by a morality wholly
sensual in its nature, which has no belief in hell, but
which must be governed by the severest laws.” In
other words Shintoism was an essentially hedonistic
religion; having much in common with the religion of
the ancient Romans and Greeks, and, in more modern
times, with the witchcraft of the Devil-worshippers.
It seems inevitable that animal worship antedates
phallicism, and Japan proves no exception to the
universal rule. The personification, and then the
deification, of the reproductive principle in nature,
proceeded along well-defined and familiar lines. The
gods were, in all cases, concerned with generation, as
their names abundantly prove. Thus Taka-mi-Musabi,
“ the high august producer” ; Kami-musuri, “ the
divine producer” ; Izanagi, “ the male who invites” ;
and Izanami, “ the female who invites.” 1 The deity
Kunado, represented by a phallus, was an antidote to
all that was evil; while the phallic character of the
monkey-god, Saruta, “ whom the shameless goddess
Uzumc approached in an indecent manner,” w
^as
admitted in ancient Japan.1
2
3
These phallic deities, the notorious Sake No Kami
of the Shintoists and Buddhists alike, were worshipped
everywhere. Phallic symbols were to be seen in all
1 See article on Phallicism in Hastings’ Encyclopaedia of Religion and
Ethics.
3 Ibid.
PHALLICISM IN CHINA AND JAPAN 227
2 2 8 PHALLIC WORSHIP
parts of the country, in the streets of the cities as well
as hidden away in the woods and among the moun­
tains. They were considered to possess powerful heal­
ing and revivifying properties. Fatherhood was every­
where recognized as the highest mission of the gods,
and because of this, ancient Shintoism worshipped the
“ supreme function.” 1 The phallus itself was deified
and named M
Konsei Mydjin, who had his temples,
images, ex-votos, and phallaphories.”1
*
3 Kwan-Non,3the
Venus of Japan, the deified female principle, was
similarly reverenced. The great temple of Asakusa
was dedicated to the goddess, and smaller temples were
distributed throughout the country. The pronouncedly
phallic character of this worship was indicated by the
nature of the “ ex-votos of all kinds hung on the wall
and on the great round pillars. Many of them are rude
Japanese pictures.”4 Forlong states that “ one of the
ancient customs was to dedicate girls to the service of
Venus, and in the temples to which these sacred
prostitutes were attached, phallic emblems are found.”3
Kaempfer refers to a religious order of beautiful young
girls called Bikuni or nuns, who lived in special estab­
lishments equivalent to the nunneries of Europe.
Although they were actually sacred harlots, it was con­
sidered a great privilege to become a member of the
order, girls being selected, apparently for their beauty
and amorous propensities, from all classes, including
those inhabiting the frankly commercial brothels.
According to Dr. Genchi Kato, the first reference to
phallicism in Japanese literature is in an ancient docu-
1 Ibid.
3 Ibid.
* The principal phallic deify of the Chinese. For a description of this
goddess sec p. 223.
4 Isabella L. Bird, Unbeaten Tracks in Japan, 1880, Vol. I, p. 67.
* Faiths of Man, Quaritch, 1906.
ment, the Kogoshui (a .d . 807), wherein it is stated that
in a moment of anger Mitoshi-no-Kami, the god of rice,
sent a plague of locusts to destroy the rice crop, and
“ the people offered a phallic emblem to the god as a
means of appeasing him.” 1 Since that time it has been
customary to offer, in the spring of every year, to
Mitoshi-no-Kami, a phallic effigy consisting of a carved
wooden figure with a huge phallus. The express object
of this offering is the securing of a plentiful rice crop
in the autumn. Dr. Kato further states that “ in the
yearly agricultural rites of the Hachiman shrine at
Ni-ike in Mikawa Province, and the Warei shrine at
Uwajima in Iyo Province, phallic emblems still con­
stitute an indispensable part of the ceremonials.”2
The worship of the “ Heavenly Root,” by which was
meant the phallus, was everywhere stressed, and the
shrines erected to it were purely phallic in character.
The erect objects of wood and stone, even where they
were not obviously representations of the human penis,
were “ sun-stones,” symbolizing the union of the sun
and the phallus.
The Shinto temples were the scenes of sexual orgies
rivalling the Bacchanalia of ancient Rome. The reason
for these temples being devoted to unashamed phallic-
ism is indicated by a study of the Kojiki and the
Nihongi, the sacred books of Japan, the contents of
which, because of their obscene nature, cannot be trans­
lated into English.3 Dresser mentions seeing, at one
of the Shinto festivals, a huge car on the platform of
which were “ musicians making rude music with gongs
1 Transactions o f th e A sia tic Society o f Japan, second series, Supple­
ment to Vol. I, December 1924, p. 5.
* Ibid., p. 6.
* W. E. Griffis, T h e R eligion s o f Japan, Hodder & Stoughton, London,
1895. See also Horace Grant Underwood. T h e R eligion s o f Eastern
A sia, Macmillan, New York, 1910, p. 71.
PHALLICISM IN CHINA AND JAPAN 229
230 PHALLIC WORSHIP
and fifes, and a masked actor, whose gestures would
not be tolerated in England.” This actor carried a
staff which was “ unmistakably phallic.” He appeared
alternately as male and female.1
Adam Scott, a Chinese merchant who visited Japan
in 1865, stated that the deity named Die Bootes was
precisely similar to the images of Boodh or Buddha in
China. In company with Admiral Kuper and other
officers, Mr. Scott visited the phallic temple of Azima,
situated on an island twenty miles west of Yokohama.
“ They found the temple on the summit of a high
hill, in the midst of a sacred ‘ grove/ On the altar
they beheld a large phallus of stone, while a vast
number of smaller size, and of wood, lay strewn
around. Mr. Scott supposes that these latter may have
been votive offerings.”2
Apparently the efforts of the Government to sup­
press phallicism in Japan have been partially though
not wholly successful. According to Aston, the cult
“ has long ago disappeared from the State religion, but
it still lingers in the out-of-the-way parts of Eastern
Japan.”3 He mentions that, in 1871, when travelling
from Utsunomiya to Nikko, he saw “ groups of phalli ”
along the road; and, in a town near Tokyo he witnessed
a procession featuring “ a phallus several feet high, and
painted a bright vermilion colour.” 1
Neil Gordon Munro, writing in 1911, says that one or
two courtesan processions “ came under his notice
somewhat less than twenty years ago, the phallus
being then very conspicuous.”3
1 C. Dresser, Japan, Longmans, Green & Co., London, 1882, p. 197.
* Article by Edward Sellon in M em oirs o f th e A n th rop o lo g ica l Society
o f L o n d o n , 1866, Vol. II, p. 274.
* W. G. Aston, Transactions an d P roceedings o f th e Japan Society,
London, 1896, Supplement I.
* Ibid.
* P rehistoric Japan, Yokohama, 1911, p. 636.
In The New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopaedia of Re­
ligious Knowledge (Vol. VI, p. i o i ) we read that “ phallic-
ism was once common, but in recent times the govern­
ment has caused most of the symbols to be removed
from public view.” 1 The cult is, however, says Griffis,
“ still secretly practised by the heathen, the Inaka of
Japan.”2
Dr. Kato tells us that "the Government has en­
deavoured to suppress this gross form of nature wor­
ship, as in the case of the phallic worship of Doso-
Konsei-Daimyojin, which is an actual stone priapus in
the compound of the Myoanji of the Buddhist Zeu
sect at Atsuta in Nagoyei City. The distribution of
amulets of the same indecent nature is also strongly
forbidden by order.”3 Despite all restrictions and pro­
hibitions, however, says the same authority, those
afflicted with venereal infections still pray to phallic
deities in order to facilitate recovery;4 a view which
Magnus Hirschfeld bears out. This famous sexologist
further states that among those who still adore the
sacred stones are women who arc sterile or suffer from
abdominal diseases, prostitutes, impotent men, brothel
owners, and unhappy lovers.5
1 Public phallic shrines were abolished in 1872.
3 The Religions of Japan, p. 28.
9Kato, op. cit., p. 11.
4 Ibid.
9 Women, East and West, Heinemann (Medical Books), London, 1935.
PHALUCISM IN CHINA AND JAPAN 2 3 1
C H A P T E R XIII
PHALLIC WORSHIP IN GREAT BRITAIN,
FRANCE, AN D OTHER PARTS OF EUROPE
i
The Phallic Stones of Britain
It was natural that the ancient Britons should worship
stones and pillars, as emblems of the male principle,
just as did the ancient Hebrews, the Greeks, the
Romans, the Egyptians, the Japanese, et al. Traces of
such worship have been found in many parts of
England, Scotland, and Wales, though it must be ad­
mitted that realistic phallic statues or priapi are re­
markably rare. Such specimens as did exist nave prob­
ably been demolished, and all records concerning them
carefully eradicated by ecclesiastical and other authori­
ties.
J. B. Hannay, author of several books on the subject
of phallicism, says in one of them, apropos of these
stones:
“ It must not be thought that these phallic
columns were uncommon in Britain. We have
lengthy lists of such sacred columns in antiquar­
ian writings. Many have been destroyed or
thrown down, and some re-erected in a different
form, others mutilated or weather-worn at the top;
but where investigation has been made it has been
232
PI.ATI-: X X I
iiy courUsy of The Wellcome Historical Medical Museum.\
ROMAN PH A LLIC LAMP.
In the Collection of the Wellcome Historical Medical Museum, London.
[I'acc page ^3
/
PHALLIC WORSHIP *33
found that they were phallic columns such as an
Indian Sivaite would fall down and worship to­
day, and others simply represent the glans like the
forms the Assyrians worshipped.”1
This authority mentions many parts of Britain where
such stones are to be found. Among them are the fol­
lowing : Chester, Stalbridge (Dorset), Hemstead (GIos.),
Devizes (Wilts.), Holbeach (Lines.), Cirencester, Derby,
Glastonbury, Bakewell, Hereford, Malmesbury, Chiches­
ter,Corwen (Merioneth), and many others. Payne Knight
asserts that statuettes of Priapus, phallic bronzes, and
specimens of pottery covered with obscene pictures,
have been found wherever there are any extensive re­
mains of Roman occupation. When digging the foun­
dations for houses in Moorgate Street, London, a phal­
lus of freestone was unearthed, which, it is stated in
Archxologia (Vol. XXVII, p. 43) seemed to have been
one of the household gods of some Roman colonist.
In a curious work, Archseologia Adelensis (1879), Henry
Trail Simpson, one-time rector of Adel, gives a number
of cases of rocks on Rombald’s Moor, and in other
parts of Yorkshire, which he claims present evidence of
widespread ancient phallic and serpent-worship.
Throughout Britain it was customary for the priests
to erect pillars, and to pile up heaps of stones on the
highest places they could find, worshipping them in the
precise manner that the pagans and idolatrous Israelites
did. In Dorset, on a hill near Cerne Abbas, cut in the
chalk and turf, known as the Cerne giant, is an ancient
figure with huge genitalia.
Cornwall, in particular, seems to have been the scene
of a good deal of phallic worship. Borlase points out
that the Celtic priests, who at one time were all-power-
1 Christianity: The Sources of its Teaching and Symbolism, p. 56.
234 PHALLIC WORSHIP
ful in the county, used the “ holed stone ” (tolmen) for
the purpose of purification, in a manner strikingly anal­
ogous to the custom in vogue in India (cf. p. 202) and in
Ireland (cf. p. 243). He describes a stone of this
character situated at Lamyon, in the parish of Mad­
ron : a large flat slab, measuring about five feet by four
feet, with a circular aperture of sixteen inches dia­
meter.1 Through this hole children afflicted with
rickets, and adults suffering from various distempers,
were pushed for the purpose of affecting a cure. The
very fact of passing through the aperture was sym­
bolical of passing through the female vulva (Yoni), and
resulted in purification and regeneration.
White, in his Natural History of Selborne, mentions
an analogous custom of pushing ruptured children, in
a state of nudity, through a cleft formed by ash-trees
and made sufficiently large by the insertion of wedges.
Stones were reverenced in Scotland. According to
Martin, many pillars were worshipped as recently as
the beginning of the eighteenth century. He mentions
an image on the island of Eriska which was “ swathed
in flannel and a holed stone, through which milk,
beer and other beverages were poured in order to pro­
pitiate a demon named “ Browney ”3
Further evidence of the worship of phallic figures in
Scotland is provided by the following extract from John
Horsley’s Britannia Romana (1732):
u A t Westerwood fort was found a remarkable
Priapus or fallus. Below it is ex-voto, and at the
top these letters x a n , which I read decent annorum;
and may denote perhaps the continuance of some
indisposition, upon the recovery from which this
1 W. C. Borlase, Cornwall, Oxford, 1754, p. 169.
* Martin Martin, Description of the Western Islands of Scotland, 1716,
p. 391.
was erected; or else the time of barrenness, after
which a child was obtained.”
The realistic character of the figure is sufficiently in­
dicated in the author's concluding statement: “ But
decency forbids the saying any more on this subject,
as it obliges me to conceal the figure.” 1 Hannay says
he has met with phallic emblems in the valley of the
Fruin, Dumbartonshire, and elsewhere.
Many of the stone crosses which are to be found in
all parts of Britain, were, says a writer in Archaeologia
(Vol. XIII, 1800, p. 208), originally pagan pillar-stones,
the cross itself being sculptured on them after the com­
ing of Christianity. As it was found impossible to
divert the people from their superstitious belief in the
power of the stones for good and evil, the ecclesiastical
authorities, by implanting upon them the sign of the
cross, turned the pagan idols into Christian symbols.
One of the most interesting and curious phallic
images ever found in England is described and por­
trayed by Robert Plot. The image was termed “ Jack
of Hilton,” and was used for blowing the fire in con­
nexion with an old Staffordshire custom which or­
dained “ that the Lord of the Manor of Essington shall
bring a goose every New Year's Day, and drive it round
the fire in the Hall at Hilton, at least three times, whilst
Jack of Hilton is blowing the fire.”
“ Now,” says the historian, “ Jack of Hilton is
a little hollow image of brass of about twelve inches
high, kneeling upon his left knee, and holding his
right hand upon his head, and his left upon Pego
or his veretrum erected (as shown in the figure),
having a little hole in the place of the mouth, about
the bigness of a great pin’s head, and another in
1 Horsley, loc. cit., p. 29.
PHALLIC WORSHIP 2 3 5
PHALLIC WORSHIP
2 3 6
the back about two-thirds of an inch diameter, at
which last hole it is filled with water, it holding
about four pints and a quarter, which, when set to
a strong fire, evaporates after the same manner as
in an Aolipile, and vents itself at the smaller hole
at the mouth in a constant blast, blowing the fire
so strongly that it is very audible, and makes a sen­
sible impression in that part of the fire where the
blast lights, as I found by experience.”1
A recent discovery, mentioned in the Daily Telegraph
(September 1st, 1939), is of extreme importance,
presenting evidence of phallic worship in ancient
Britain. It is a figurine of the Earth Mother or Goddess
of Fertility, discovered in the May of 1939 in a neolithic
chalk pit at Grimes Graves, Norfolk, and revealed four
months later by Mr. A. L. Armstrong, at a meeting of
the anthropology section of the British Association.
“ The figure,” says the Daily Telegraph report, " is four
and a half inches high and represents in crude sculp­
ture a very stout female figure sitting back on the heels
with hands resting on its legs in front of it. With it
was found an altar in symbolic ogive form made of
flint. There was also a cup made of chalk and signs
of a hearth with charcoal still upon it. The whole find
indicates a magic ceremony to placate the gods of fer­
tility. Such a neolithic discovery, stated Mr. Arm­
strong, is unique in Western Europe.”
1 The Natural History of Staffordshire, Oxford, 1686, p. 433.
PHALLIC WORSHIP 237
II
Phallic Worship in Ireland
It has been asserted that Cromcruach, the principal
deity of the ancient Irish, was a phallic god, but I can
find no conclusive or even substantial evidence as to
PHALLIC TOWER A T CLONDALKIN. IRELAND
Proin Davenport’) Aphrodisiacs (1869)
the truth of this. Long before the introduction of
Christianity, however, Ireland was the seat of the Druid
sun, stone and serpent-worship. It is to the prohibition
of serpent-worship in Ireland that the legend of St.
Patrick relates.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
Whether or not phallicism reached a greater degree
of ecumcnity, and was prosecuted with more realism in
Ireland than in England and Scotland, it is a fact that
there existed, at any rate until comparatively recently,
a greater and more striking volume of evidence of its
practice in the shape of actual sculptural and other
representations of the cult. Up to the close of the
eighteenth century there were to be observed in all
parts of the country, and particularly in the places of
worship, phallic pillars, signs, carvings and sculptures
of the most flagrant description. Hannay truly says:
“ As in the case of the Greek coins and Nismcs
sculptures, these sculptured nudities, placed so
prominently on the churches, were not the mere
impulse of a private citizen in erotic moments;
they were the symbolism of a cult, and a belief
expressed deliberately by the Church authorities
or magistrates. Had such ideas not been held and
respected by a large part of the population they
would never have been allowed to be exposed in
such a public position.” 1
On the island of Innis Murra, off the coast of Sligo,
is one such phallic monument. It consists of an erect
pillar, surrounded by a stone wall. The island itself
has been held sacred from the times of paganism until
the beginning of the nineteenth century.1
2
The Earl of Roden refers to a stone on the island of
Inniskea, off the coast of Mayo, which is “ wrapped up
in flannel and adored as a god.”3
The figure illustrated (see plate x x i i ) is of a pillar-
stone standing on the Hill of Tara. It was removed
1 J. B. Hannay, op. cit., p. 96.
2Charles Vallanccy, Prospectus of a Dictionary, Dublin, 1802, p. 30.
5Progress of the Reformation of Ireland, 1851, p. 51.
238
[Fact- page 23S
V
A
R
IO
U
S
P
H
A
U
.I
C
STOXKS.
J-'t-K
m
u
u
.
v
Prom
Keane,
Towers
and
Temples
of
Ancient
Ireland
l*rom
Plot,
Satural
History
of
Staffordshire
(1SO7).
(Oxford,
1780).
See
text
page
235.
t
■4
n
*
■ ■1
«
•1
t
*
*r A
T
,
1 r 4 • 4
V
■ I
ft
t /
1 J
PHALLIC WORSHIP *39
from a place with the significant name of Bel-Pear. “ I
believe,” says Keane, “ it to be identical with Baal-Pehor
of the Scriptures, which, like the Priapus, Muidhr and
Mahody, was the emblem of the sun as the source of
generative life.” 1 Another somewhat similar stone,
called “ Cloich Greine,” which means literally “ the
stone of the sun,” was found at Innis-Maidhr, County
Sligo2 (see plate x x ii); and there is yet another phallic
pillar at Arghabulloge, County Cork: it is known as
St. Olan’s stone.3
Apropos of the phallic figures found in Irish
churches, the anonymous author4of the “ Essay on the
Worship of the Generative Powers during the Middle
Ages of Europe,” appended to the 1865 edition of
Payne Knight's Discourse on the Worship of Priapus,
says:
“ It is a singular fact that in Ireland it was the
female organ which was shown in the position of
protector upon the churches, and the elaborate
though rude manner in which these figures were
sculptured, show that they were considered as
objects of great importance. They represented a
female exposing herself to view in the most
unequivocal manner, and are carved on a block
which appears to have served as the keystone to the
arch of the doorway of the church, where they
were presented to the gaze of all who entered.
They appear to have been found principally in the
very old churches, and have been mostly taken
down, so that they are only found among the ruins.
People have given them the name of Shelah-na-
1 The Towers and Temples of Ancient Ireland, Dublin, 1867, p. 334.
3 Ibid.
3Nelson’s Encyclopaedia.
4The essay is attributed to Thomas Wright.
2 4 0 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Gig, which, we are told, means in Irish, Julian the
Giddy, and is simply a term for an immodest
woman; but it is well understood that they were
ANCIENT IRISH SHELAH-NA-GIGS
( s e r i e s i )
F ro m A Discount on the Worship of Pritpus (18 6 5)
PHALLIC WORSHIP 241
intended as protecting charms against the fascina­
tion of the evil eye. We have given copies of all
the examples yet known in our illustrations of
Shelah-na-Gigs (Series I and II). The first of these
was found in an old church at Rochestown in the
county of Tipperary, where it had long been known
among the people of the neighbourhood by the
name given above (see Series I, fig. 1). It was
placed in the arch over the doorway, but has since
been taken away. Our second example of the
Shelak-na-Gig (Series I, fig. 2) was taken from an
old church lately pulled down in the County Cavan,
and is now preserved in the museum of the Society
of Antiquaries of Dublin. The third (Series I,
fig. 3) was found at Ballinahend Castle, also in
the county of Tipperary; and the fourth (Series I,
fig. 4) is preserved in the museum at Dublin, but
we are not informed from whence it was obtained.
The next, which is also now preserved in the
Dublin museum, was taken from the old church on
the White Island in Lough Erne, County Ferman­
agh (see Series II, fig. 1). This church is supposed
by the Irish antiquaries to be a structure of very
great antiquity, for some of them would carry its
date as far back as the seventh century, but this is
probably an exaggeration. The one which follows
(Series II, fig. 2) was furnished by an old church
pulled down by order of the ecclesiastical commis­
sioners, and it was presented to the museum at
Dublin by the late Dean Dawson. Our last ex­
ample was formerly in the possession of Sir Ben­
jamin Chapman, Bart., of Killoa Castle, West­
meath, ana is now in a private collection in
London (Series II, fig. 3). It was found in 1859 at
Chloran, in a field on Sir Benjamin's estate known
Q
2 ^ 2 PHALLIC WORSHIP
MORE ANCIENT IRISH SHELAH-NA-GIGS
( s e r i e s i i )
F ro m A Discount on the Worship of Priapus (18 6 5)
PHALLIC WORSHIP
by the name of the Old Town, from whence stones
had been removed at previous periods, though
there are now very small remains of building. This
stone was found at a depth of about five feet from
the surface, which shows that the buildings, a
church no doubt, must have fallen into ruin a long
time ago. Contiguous to this field, and at a dis­
tance of about two hundred yards from the spot
where the Shelah-na-Gig was found, there is an
abandoned churchyard, separated from the Old
Town field only by a loose stone wall.”
Brash refers to a Shelah-na-Gig over a doorway of
Kilnaboy church. The same authority mentions similar
carvings on the doorway of the old church of White
Island in Lough Erne, and over a window in Bally-
vourney church. “ Many others,” he says, “ are known
to exist.” 1 The majority are defaced or mutilated in
some way, bur there is a perfect specimen, showing a
Shelah-na-Gig “ struggling with two dragons, on the
ornate and possibly eleventh-century sill at Rath-
Blathmaic church.”2
The holed stones of Ireland were as famous as those
of Cornwall and of India. There were many such for
the finding, and they were all held in the greatest
veneration. One stone, called Cloch Deglain, on the
strand of Ardmore Bay, County Waterford, was visited
by afflicted men and women who had sufficient strength
to creep through the aperture. They came from all
parts of the country, ana there was scarcely a distemper
for which creeping through the holed-stone was not
considered to provide a certain and quick cure.3
1 The Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland, Dublin, 1875, p. 60.
2 Folklore, London, 1910, Vol. XXI, p. 344.
9See article by Richard Bolt Brash in Gentlemans Magazine,
December 1864.
H 3
-44 PHALLIC WORSHIP
O’Brien, in referring to this old method of seeking
regeneration, which is representative of the act of issu­
ing from the womb, terms these holes in the rocks,
Devil's Yonies (Cunni Diaboli).1 Brash is of opinion
that the superstition in England, Scotland and Ireland,
as in India, was of phallic origin and significance. He
says: “ In Ireland ample evidences are not wanting to
show that phallic dogmas and rites were very exten­
sively known and practised in ancient times. It is
patent in the existing folk-lore of the country, in some
everyday customs of the peasantry, and in the remains
of midnight plays and ceremonies practised still in re­
mote districts at wakes and such-like occasions."2 He
adds that the triangular shape and the peculiar arrange­
ment of the stones at various places also are not without
their significance.
h i
The Worship of Priapus in Continental Europe
A glance at the edicts of the early church councils
provides evidence as to the antiquity and the preval­
ence of phallicism in many parts of Europe. The
Council at Arles, in the year of grace 452, decreed that
anyone found worshipping trees or stones, or anyone
who failed to destroy these evidences of idolatry, would
be held guilty of tne crime of sacrilege. A century
later the Council at Tours threatened any such wor­
shippers with excommunication. In 681 the Council
at Toledo denounced the adoration of trees and stones
as Devil-worship; and in 789 Charlemagne vigorously
1 Henry O’Brien, The Round Towers of Ireland, 1834.
3 Brash, loc. c i t p. 700.
PHALLIC WORSHIP *45
condemned these same forms of worship as idolatry.
When, in 1585, the Protestants captured the town of
Embrun, they found, among the relics of the principal
church, occupying a prominent place, what was reputed
to be the phallus of Saint Foutin de Varailles. To this
saint, who was supposed to possess the power of making
barren women fruitful, and who received the devotion
and homage of large numbers of female worshippers,
says Sanci, “ are offered waxen models of the pudenda
of both sexes. They are strewn in great numbers over
the floor of the chapel.” According to Davenport,
“ they poured wine over the extremity of the phallus,
which was dyed red with it; this wine, being afterwards
collected and allowed to turn sour, was called the holy
vinegar and was applied by women to a most extraordi­
nary purpose, but what that purpose was we are not in­
formed and can only guess at.” 1 Other phalli were to
be found in many towns at that time. A t Puy-en-Valay
there was one which the women scraped diligendy,
placing the particles of stone thus abraded in water, and
swallowing the mixture. And there were similar phalli
at Poligny, at Vendre, and at Auxerre. And at Orange,
in the church of St. Eutropius, an extraordinary speci­
men of huge dimensions, complete with its appendages,
and encased in leather, was burned in the market-place
by the Protestants. At Aix, in Provence, an enormous
white marble phallus, encircled with garlands, was dis­
covered near the site of the ancient baths; while another
phallus of phenomenal size was unearthed at Le
Chatelet in Champagne.2
Count de Gebelin, in his Histoire Religieuse du
Calendrier, in discussing the worship of the goat at
Mendes, says:
1 Remarks on the Symbols of the Reproductive Powers, 1869.
*R. Payne Knight. Worship of Priapus, 1865.
246 PHALLIC WORSHIP
“ I have read somewhere that in the south of
France there existed not long ago a custom re­
sembling the one mentioned; the women of that
part of the country devoutly frequented a temple
containing a statue of the saint, and which statue
they embraced, expressing that their barrenness
would be removed by the operation ”
The author of that curious and ancient volume, The
World of Wonders (1607), in speaking of sterility, says:
“ There arc many Saints which can easily cure
it and make women become fruitful by one only
devout embracing. For first S. Gucrlichou (Abbey
of the citie Bourg de Dicu) braggeth that he can
get as many women with child as come, be they
never so many; if whilst they are going with
child, they faile not to stretch themselves devoutly
upon the holy idol which licth all flat upon his
back, and standeth not upright as the rest do: be­
sides that they drink every day a certain potion
mingled with the scrapings of the said image, and
by name with the scraping of that part which I
cannot name with modestic. There is also in the
county of Constantin in Normandie (commonly
called Constantin) a certain Saint called S. Giles,
which was no less famous for such matters, accord­
ing to the common saying, there is no miracle com­
parable to that which is wrought by an old Saint.
I have also heard of a certain Saint called S. Rene
in Anjou, which busicth himself in this occupation.
But how women behave themselves when they are
in his company (considering that he shows them
that which civilitie would have covered), as I am
ashamed to write it, so I am sure the readers would
blush to reade it.”
PHALLIC WORSHIP
Then there was the notorious Saint Guignole or Guin-
galais, whose statue stood in a chapel dedicated to his
worship, near the town of Brest. The phallic symbol
consisted of a long wooden pole or rod projecting from
the body of the Saint. The end of this rod was “ strik­
ingly characteristic.” In accordance with the custom
of the time, the women seeking relief from their barren­
ness scraped the phallus to such an extent that there
was a risk of it vanishing altogether. But the priests
had been alive to this danger and managed to circum­
vent it in their mode of constructing the image. The
rod which terminated in a phallus passed completely
through the Saint’s body— a blow with a mallet at the
rear propelled it forward, with the result that, despite
the continual scraping, the phallus never seemed to
diminish.
In Belgium the centre of phallic worship was Ant­
werp. There was a figure of Priapus surmounting the
gate at the entrance to the enclosure of the temple of
St. Walburgis. The tutelary god of the city was
Ters, a phallic figure indistinguishable from Priapus
of the Greeks. According to Goropius, his worship
was in full swing well into the eighteenth century,
and the women of the town were accustomed to
embellish the phallus of the statue with garlands of
flowers.
At Trani, in the Kingdom of Naples, there was held
every year at the carnival, a phallic procession reminis­
cent of the Lupercalia of ancient Rome. A huge
wooden statue of Priapus— it was of such proportions,
says Davenport, that “ the member reached to the
chin” 1— was carried through the streets. The figure
was given the name il santo membro, meaning “ the
holy member.” The ceremony was continued until the
1 Davenport, loc. cit.
247
PHALLIC WORSHIP
beginning of the eighteenth century, when Joseph
Davanzati, archbishop of the town, succeeded in abol­
ishing it.
But if the processions in all their ancient realism were
prohibited, the basic beliefs behind phallicism itself
could not so easily be eradicated, and it was impossible
to prevent the people worshipping, in some form or
other, the phallic principle. No more convincing proof
of the reality and the extent of such worship is available
than the proceedings during the Fete of St. Cosmo and
Damiano, held at Isernia,1 in the year 1780. A detailed
account of them is given in a letter from Sir William
Hamilton, His Majesty's Minister at the Court of
Naples, to Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., President of the
Royal Society. The letter was written at Naples and is
dated December 30, 1781. I cannot do better than re­
produce it here.2
“ Sir,— Having last year made a curious dis­
covery, that in a Province of this Kingdom, and
not fifty miles from its capital, a sort of devotion
is still paid to Priapus, the obscene Divinity of the
ancients (though under another denomination), I
thought it a circumstance worth recording; par­
ticularly, as it offers a fresh proof of the similitude
of the Popish and Pagan Religion, so well observed
by Doctor Middleton, in his celebrated letter from
Rome; and therefore I mean to deposit the authen-
=48
1 The town of Isernia was almost entirely destroyed during an earth­
quake in 1805.
9 The text of the letter here reproduced is taken from the British
Museum copy of the original edition (dated 1786) of Payne Knight's
An Account of the Remains of the Worship of Priapus. The letter also
appears in the 1865 edition of Payne Knight's work, and was sub­
sequently published in a privately printed volume, edited by Hargrave
Jennings, entitled The Worship of Priapus, and published by George
Redway, London, 1883.
PHALLIC WORSHIP 249
tic proofs1 of this assertion in the British Museum,
when a proper opportunity shall offer. In the
meantime I send you the following account, which,
I flatter myself, will amuse you for the present,
and may in future serve to illustrate these
“ I had long ago discovered, that the women
and children of the lowest class, at Naples, and in
its neighbourhood, frequently wore, as an orna­
ment of dress, sort of amulets (which they imagine
to be a preservative from the mal occhii, evil eyes,
or enchantment) exactly similar to those which
were worn by the ancient inhabitants of this
Country for the very same purpose, as likewise for
their supposed invigorating influence; and all of
which nave evidently a relation to the cult of
Priapus. Struck with this conformity in modern
and ancient superstition, I made a collection of
both the ancient and modern amulets of this sort,
and placed them together in the British Museum,
where they remain.
“ The modern amulet most in vogue, represents
a hand clinched, with the point of the thumb thrust
betwixt the index and middle finger; the next is
a shell; and the third is a half-moon. These
amulets (except the shell which is usually worn in
its natural state) are most commonly made of
silver, but sometimes of ivory, coral, amber, crystal,
or some curious gem, or pebble. We have a proof
of the hand above described having a connexion
with Priapus, in a most elegant small idol of bronze
of that Divinity, now in the Royal Museum of
Portici, and which was found in the ruins of
1 A specimen of each of the ex-voti of wax, with the original letter
from Iscrnia, which were deposited in the British Museum.
250 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Herculaneum: it had an enormous Phallus, and,
with an arch look and gesture, stretches out its
right hand in the form above mentioned; and
which probably was an emblem of consummation:
and as a further proof of it, the amulet which
occurs most frequently amongst those of the
ancients (next to that which represents the simple
Priapus), is such a hand united with the Phallus;
of which you may see several specimens in my
collection in the British Museum. One in par­
ticular, I recollect, has also the half-moon joined
to the hand and Phallus; which half-moon is sup­
posed to have an allusion to the female menses.
The shell, or concha veneris, is evidendy an
emblem of the female part of generation. It is
very natural then to suppose, that the amulets
representing the Phallus alone, so visibly indecent,
may have been long out of use in this civilized
capital; but I have been assured, that it is but very
lately that the Priests have put an end to the wear­
ing of such amulets in Calabria, and other distant
Provinces of this Kingdom.
“ A new road having been made last year from
this capital to the Province of Abruzzo, passing
through the City of Isernia (anciently belonging to
the Samnites, and very populous), a person of a
liberal education, employed in that work, chanced
to be at Isernia just at the time of the celebration
of the Feast of the modern Priapus, St. Cosmo; and
having been struck with the singularity of the
ceremony, so very similar to that which attended
the ancient cult of the God of the Gardens, and
knowing my taste for antiquities, told me of it.
From this gentleman’s report, and from what I
learnt on the spot from the Governor of Isernia
PHALLIC WORSHIP
himself, having gone to that city on purpose in the
month of February last, I have drawn up the
following account, which I have reason to believe
is strictly true. I did intend to have been present
at the Feast of St. Cosmo this year, but the in­
decency of this ceremony having probably tran­
spired, from the country’s having been more fre­
quented since the new road was made, orders have
been given, that the Great Toe1 of the Saint should
no longer be exposed.
“ The following is the account of the Fete of St.
Cosmo and Damiano, as it actually was celebrated
at Isernia, on the confines of Abruzzo, in the
Kingdom of Naples, so late as the year of our Lord,
1780.
“ On the 27th of September, at Isernia, one of
the most ancient cities of the Kingdom of Naples,
situated in the Province called the Contado di
Molise, and adjoining to Abruzzo, an annual Fair
is held, which lasts three days. The situation of
this Fair is on a rising ground, between two rivers,
about half a mile from the town of Isernia; on the
most elevated part of which there is an ancient
Church, with a vestibule. The architecture is of
the style of the lower ages, and it is said to have
been a Church and Convent belonging to the
Benedictine Monks in the time of their poverty.
This Church is dedicated to St. Cosmus and
Damianus. One of the days of the Fair, the relicks
of the Saints are exposed, and afterwards carried
in procession from the Cathedral of the City to this
Church, attended by a prodigious concourse of
people. In the city, and at the Fair, Ex-voti of
wax, representing the male parts of generation, of
1 The name given, at that time, to the phallus.
PHALLIC WORSHIP
2 5 2
various dimensions, some even of the length of a
palm, are publickly offered to sale. There are also
waxen vows, that represent other parts of the body
mixed with them; but of those there are few in
comparison of the number of the Priapi. The de­
vout distributors of these vows carry a basket full
of them in one hand, and hold a plate in the other
to receive the money, crying aloud, ' St. Cosmo and
Damiano! ’ If you ask the price of one, the answer
is, piu ci metti, piu meriti: *The more you give,
the more’s the merit.’ In the vestibule are two
tables, at each of which one of the canons of the
Church presides, this crying out, Qui si riceveno le
Misse, e Litanie: 'Here Masses and Litanies are
received’; and the other Qui si riceveno li Voti:
' Here the vows are received.’ The price of a Mass
is 15 Neopolitan grains, and of a Litany 5 grains.
On each table is a large basin for the reception of
the different offerings. The Vows are chiefly pre­
sented by the female sex; and they are seldom such
as represent legs, arms, etc., but most commonly
the male parts of generation. The person who was
at this fete in the year 1780, and who gave me this
account (the authenticity of every article of which
has since been fully confirmed to me by the
Governor of Isernia), told me also, that he heard a
woman say at the time she presented a Vow, like
that which is reproduced in the accompanying
illustration (plate x x i i i ) Santo cosimo beneaetto
cosi lo voglio: 'Blessed St. Cosmo, let it be like
this’; another St. Cosimo, a te mi racommcndo:
'St. Cosmo, I recommend myself to you,’ and a
third, St. Cosimo ti ringrazio: ' St. Cosmo, I thank
you.’ The Vow is never presented without being
accompanied by a piece of money, and is always
PI.ATK W i l l
P LA T K IJ.I.L’S T K A T tX O T H K W O K SII1P Ol- PKI A P I’S A T
IS F K X IA IX 17H0,
As described bv Sir William Hamilton in a letter, dated December 30,
17X1, to Sir Joseph Hanks, Hart., President of The Koval Society.
From Payne Knight, Worship of Priapus (17S0I.
See text page 24X et seq.
[P a c e pa ge 252.
PHALLIC WORSHIP *53
kissed by the devotee at the moment of presenta­
tion.
“ A t the great Altar in the Church, another of
its Canons attends to give the holy unction, with
the oil of St. Cosmo; which is prepared by the
same receipt as that of the Roman Ritual, with
the addition only of the prayer of the Holy Martyrs,
St. Cosmus and Damianus. Those who have an
infirmity in any of their members, present them­
selves at the greater Altar and uncover the member
affected (not even excepting that which is most
frequently represented by the Ex-voti); and the
reverend Canon anoints it, saying, Per interces-
sionem beati Cosmi, liberet te ab omni malo.
Amen. The ceremony finishes by the Canons of
the Church dividing the spoils, both money and
wax, which must be to a very considerable amount,
as the concourse at this Fete is said to be prodigi­
ously numerous.
“ The oil of St. Cosmo is in high repute for its
invigorating quality, when the loins, and parts
adjacent, are anointed with it. No less than 1400
flasks of that oil were either expended at the Altar
in unctions, or charitably distributed during the
Fete in the year 1780; and as it is usual for every­
one, who either makes use of the Oil at the Altar,
or carries off a flask of it, to leave an alms for St.
Cosmo, the ceremony of the Oil becomes likewise
a very lucrative one to the Canons of the Church.
“ I am, Sir, with great truth and regard,
" Your most obedient humble servant,
“ W il l i a m H a m i l t o n /'
There are, too, other indications of the persistence of
various forms of phallic worship, despite ecclesiastical
*54 PHALLIC WORSHIP
condemnation and State prohibition. At the end of
the eighteenth century, in France and Italy, phallic
emblems (identical with the ancient ithyphalliques)
were carried on their persons by young men and women.
The males attached these trinkets to their watches,
while the females wore them as hair-ornaments. An
emblem of the closed hand, says the author of the
Museum Britannicum (1791), indicated virginity. Such
a one, he says, was presented to one of his friends in
the course of his travels through Italy, by a nun.
According to Higgins, there is, in the Church of St.
Peter at Rome, “ kept in secret a large stone emblem
of the creative power of a very peculiar shape.” 1
1 The Celtic Druids, 1829. p. 195.
C H A P T E R X I V
PHALLICISM IN RELATION TO
CHRISTIANITY
i
The Phallic Feasts of the Early Christians
W e have seen that, as regards every ancient religious
and philosophic belief, the fundament, in its ultimate
analysis, was the worship of the creative power sup­
posed to be responsible for everything existent, whether
animate or inanimate. This recognized creative power
or source was thought, at first, to be purely mystical and
amorphous. It next flourished as an androgynous
deity. Finally it developed into the dual concept of
the male and female creative elements. Brahm, for
instance, functioned as an example of the primitive
creative force; while Yahweh, in the first chapter of
Genesis, emerges as an androgynous deity. The place
of the female in creation was not admitted until after
the birth of Eve from a hermaphroditic Adam.
It was to be expected that some features, at any rate,
of these beliefs would find their places in the early Chris­
tian faith, embracing, as it did, so many of the funda­
mental concepts not only of the Yahweh-worship of the
ancient Hebrews but also of many contemporary and
rival pagan religions. Naturally, inevitably, therefore,
Christianity, in its incipiency, was essentially a phallic
cult. Indeed, as regards certain aspects of phallicism,
such for instance as its emergence in the form of sexual
255
PHALLIC WORSHIP
promiscuity, no greater evidence is there for the finding
than that provided by the festivals in connexion with
early Christianity.
Ostensibly, the Christian religion, being a reforma­
tion of the Jewish, tended to increase rather than to
diminish in austerity. The teaching of the dour St.
Paul and the ascetic Jesus had done much to create a
general feeling of revulsion for every outward expres­
sion of phallic worship. It was one of the fundamental
features of the Christian faith that sex was anathema,
that even carnal intercourse for the specific purpose
of reproduction was to be frowned upon and dis­
couraged. In other words, the asceticism of St. Paul
represented a complete volte-face from the libidinism
of Moses. The barren woman was no longer to be
scorned. The impotent man was deservent of the high­
est commendation. The eunuch might well merit a
high place in the heavenly hierarchy.
Despite Paul’s efforts however, despite his reiterated
thunderings against every form of sexual indulgence,
despite his fanatical and rococo glorification of celibacy
and sexual abstinence, there are indications, clear and
unambiguous, in the Scriptures, that the people in­
dulged in the pleasures of the flesh whenever oppor­
tunity afforded, and that, as of old, they took advantage
of the religious feasts to indulge in excesses and abnor­
malities which, at other times and in different circum­
stances, they were compelled to practise in the utmost
secrecy. The worship of the pagan deities, with their
frankly sensual rites, continued. It is to these rites that
St. John, in his Epistle to the angel of the Church of
Thyatira, refers, thus:
“ I have a few things against thee, because thou
snfFercst that woman Jezebel, w'hich calleth her­
256
self a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my ser­
vants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacri­
ficed unto idols. And I gave her space to repent of
her fornication, and she repented not.”
Even the festivals connected with the Eucharist, as
celebrated at that time, were not altogether free from
sexual licence. These celebrations, inaugurated by St.
Paul himself, were termed Agapx or love-feasts, and
were held during the night. Although, as the word
expresses, they were meetings of joy and gratification,
it was, by theological implication, joy and gratification
in a purely spiritual sense. There can be litde doubt
that, in the beginning, the celebrations were conducted
with the utmost decorum, but it was not long before
they became the subject of much scandalous talk. Sex­
ual promiscuity was rife, and it is contended by some
historians that Paul himself, who apparently soured
upon the innovation he had made in all good faith,
found himself compelled to rail against his brethren
for breaches of religious etiquette, for unseemly and
disorderly behaviour, for drunkenness and gluttony,
and for other scandalous conduct which apparently he
preferred to hint at rather than to name. The denun­
ciations of the Christian fathers lend colour to this
supposition. As Payne Knight points out, the specific
manner in which St. Augustine commanded the ladies
who attended these meetings to wear clean linen, seems
to infer that personal as well as spiritual matters were
considered to be worthy of attention. To those who
administer the Sacrament in the modern way, it may
appear of little consequence whether the women who
received it wore clean linen or not, but to the bishop
who was to administer the holy kiss, it certainly was
a point of some importance.1
1A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus, 1786, p. 184.
R
PHALLICISM IN RELATION TO CHRISTIANITY 257
PHALLIC WORSHIP
Things went from bad to worse, and in the fourth
century of Christianity we find the Councils of Lao-
dicea and Carthage prohibiting the holding of these
love-feasts. Indeed, to such dimensions did the scan­
dal grow that a noted Roman said he would prefer his
wife to become a temple prostitute rather than a
Christian!1
It is further noteworthy that the Agapetx of the
early Christian Church also gave rise to much scandal.
These young women were attached to the household of
the clergy and were usually present at the love-feasts.
In plain language they were either concubines or pros­
titutes. Matters reached such a pitch that the Church
Councils were again forced to take action. They de­
creed that none of the unmarried clergy should have
living with him any woman who was a stranger, or any
relative other than a mother, a sister, or an aunt.1
1
258
11
The Cross as a Phallic Symbol
Long before the crucifixion of Christ led to the adop­
tion of the cross as a Christian symbol, it was widely
recognized as a phallic emblem. In its most primitive
form it is probable that the cross merely symbolized
the male fecundating principle, i.e. the penis and the
testicles, as in the Phoenician triad: Asher, Anu and
Hoa. With the growing recognition of the part played
by the female in the reproductive process, this sym­
bolism was extended to include the female or mother
goddess, and, in addition, the result of conception.
1 J. B. Hannay, The Rise, Decline and Fall of the Roman Religion,
p. 42.
Payne Knight in his work A Discourse on the Worship
of Priapus (1786) says:
“ The male organs of generation are sometimes
found represented by signs which might properly
be called the symbols of symbols. One of the
most remarkable of these is a cross, in the form of
the letter T, which thus served as the emblem of
creation and generation, before the Church
adopted it as the sign of salvation; a lucky coinci­
dence of ideas, which, without doubt, facilitated
the reception of it among the faithful. To the
representative of the male organs was sometimes
added a human head, which gives it the exact
appearance of a crucifix.”
Originally, in pagan worship, the cross was a symbol
of the sun, of eternal life, and of the generative power
in nature. Analogously it came to be considered an em­
blem of the erect phallus. In the hands of many of the
statues and pictorial representations of the pagan
deities we find the cross. Thus Brahma, Siva, Vishnu,
Crishna, Osiris, Buddha, et al. The ancient Egyptians,
in the opinion of some authorities, considered it to be
a symbol of fertility. “ The cross,” says King, “ seems
to be the Egyptian tau, that most ancient symbol of
the generative power, and therefore transferred into the
Bacchic mysteries.” 1 Higgins is emphatic respecting
the phallic significance of the letter tau. He says it is
the symbol of Mercury and Hermes. It is the crux
ansata and the crux Hermis. It was the last letter
of the ancient alphabets, but in addition the crux
tau was the symbol of the generative power, of eternal
transmigrating life, and for this reason was used indis­
criminately with the phallus. It was, in fact, the
1 The Gnostics, 1864.
PHALLICISM IN RELATION TO CHRISTIANITY 2 5 9
PHALLIC WORSHIP
( ihallu$.x The crux ansata, affirms Crozius, is nothing
ess than the triple phallus referred to by Plutarch. It
is seen on all Egyptian monuments. This crux ansata
is an ordinary cross with a ring or handle attached to
it. It was evolved by the Egyptians.
Not only was the cross a phallic symbol long before
it blossomed forth as a monogram of Christ, but it con­
tinued to be recognized as such for centuries after the
crucifixion. Howard says that the cross was “ so gener­
ally recognized as a pagan symbol that early Church
fathers forbade its use among Christians/'2 and men­
tions further that we find Minucius Felix “ scornfully
resenting the imputation of the Romans that the
votaries of the new faith were employing it in their
worship of Christ ” (Octavius, Chapter XXIX).3
In 336 a .c ., we find Iamblichus stating that “ crosses
are signs of productive energy and provocation to a
continuation of the world.” And later in the same
century, says Forlong, “ the emperor Theodosius issued
a decree prohibiting the sign of the cross being sculp­
tured or painted on the pavements of Churches.”
Moreover, says the same authority, “ Tertullian, the
African, had about 200 a .c . complained that the devil
customarily made a sign on the foreheads of the wor­
shippers of the Persian god Mithra, who was at that
time one of the deities of the Romans.”'1
1Anacalypsis, p. 269.
2 Sex and Religion, Williams & Norgate, 19*5.
8Ibid.
* R a w of Life.
PHALLICISM IN RELATION TO CHRISTIANITY 2 6 1
III
Other Phallic Christian Symbols
“ The triangle/' says Wall, “ was a favourite method
of figuring God/'1 With its apex upward it was said
to represent the Trinity— “ three persons, co-eternal
together, and co-equal.”2 It was so used by the ancient
Egyptians, Greeks, Buddhists and Hindus. With its
base upward it represents the mons veneris in woman,
the delta, or the door through which everything enters
the world; and the phallus in man.3 The union of two
triangles indicates the male and female principles unit­
ing with each other in the act of creation.4 Wall refers
to a copper-plate in the Welt-Gemaelde-Gallerie deline­
ating God appearing to Moses in the burning bush, in
which “ this male triangle represents the male god
Jehovah."5
Josephus, in his Antiquities, states that when Ptolemy
Philadelphus sent a kingly present to the Jewish
temple, it consisted of a certain triangular golden table.
There are indications that the triangle in Free­
masonry is a phallic emblem. It is to this interpretation
that Southey refers when he says:
Behold, the sacred triangle is there,
Holding the emblem which no tongue may tell.
Although there is no doubt some slight foundation
for the supposition that, in certain cases, such, for
instance, as have been indicated in the preceding
passages, the triangle had a distinctively phallic mean-
1 Sex and Sex Worship, p. 397.
* Inman, Ancient Faiths.
3 Wall, op. cit.
* Inman, op. cit.
3Wall, op. cit.
262 PHALLIC WORSHIP
ing, there are, too, undoubtedly many instances where
the symbol has had a meaning read into it which
actually never existed. The same may be said of many
other symbols for which phallic meanings have been
claimed in all and any circumstances.
Cakes or buns were made in the shape of the phallus
or the feminine pudendum, according to Martial. This
ancient practice, which is also alluded to by the prophet
Jeremiah, survived through the centuries of Christian­
ity. Athanasius mentions cakes made to resemble the
breast of a female being carried by women in the bridal
processions at Sparta. In Saintonge, near La Rochelle,
small cakes shaped like the male organ were carried in
procession at Easter.1 Dulaure says that in his own
time there was held at the town of Santcs, on Palm
Sunday, a festival called le fete des pinnes, in which
women and children carried through the streets at the
end of a palm branch a cake shaped like a phallus and
called a pinne. Cakes of similar shape, called fateaux,
were also carried in the procession of the Fete Dieu, or
Corpus Christi, held at St. Jean d’Angcly.1
2 Loaves in
the shape of the phallus were among the offerings made
by King Raineses III to Amen.
The figure of a cock is not without its phallic signifi­
cance. From the most remote times a connexion has
been established between the cock, the sun, and mas­
culine power. Inman gives three reasons for this: the
cock's habit of crowing at sun-rise, his strength and
courage, and his apparently unlimited sexual virility
and powder.3 Payne Knight points out the existence in
the Vatican of a bronze which represents a cock bear­
ing the male sexual member, surmounting the body of
1 A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus, 1865.
2 Thomas Inman, Ancient Faiths.
* Ibid.t Vol. I, p. 537.
a man. The pedestal is inscribed, “ The Saviour of the
World.” The weathercock which so frequently adorns
our churches was originally a symbol of the sun. In
vulgar terminology the penis is referred to as a cock.
The Easter egg is a relic of the old pagan offerings
connected with the worship of the sun, whose re-birth
in Spring was symbolized in the resurrection of Christ.
The egg was at one time considered to be a token of the
resurrection.
Many of these symbols arc in existence to-day
although their original phallic significance may be lost
in obscurity. Thus the long vestments of the priests
which indicated the union of the feminine and mas­
culine or were of hermaphroditic import. The stole is
a woman's garment, and the wearing of it symbolical
of the androgynous creator.
Apropos of the persistence with which ancient
symbols have retained their hold in modern civilization,
King says:
“ It is astonishing how much of the Egyptian
and the second-hand Indian symbolism passed
over into the usages of following times. Thus the
high cap and hooked staff of the god became the
bishop's mitre and crosier; the term Nun is purely
Egyptian, and bore its present meaning; the erect
oval, symbol of the Female Principle in Nature,
became the Vesica Piscis, and a frame for divine
things; the Crux Ansata, testifying the union of
the Male and Female Principle in the most obvious
manner, and denoting fecundity and abundance,
as borne in the god's hand, is transformed, by a
simple inversion, into the Orb surmounted by the
Cross, and the ensign of royalty.''1
1 The Gnostics, p. 72
PHALLICISM IN RELATION TO CHRISTIANITY 263
264 PHALLIC WORSHIP
IV
The Emergence of Obscenity
The concept of obscenity is ail ever-changing one. It
varies in degree even in modern times and in the same
country. What was considered obscene a quarter of a
century ago is accepted or tolerated, and even, on
occasion, approved, to-day. What is considered obscene
in England is not looked upon as immoral in France.
So varied indeed are the concepts of obscenity, and so
different the ethical standards in the various modem
States, that at the International Conference on Obscene
Publications, held at Geneva in 1923, the representatives
of half the governments of the world resolved that:
“ After careful examination of the question as
to whether it is possible to insert in the Convention
a definition of the word *obscene' which would be
acceptable to all the States, the Conference came
to a negative conclusion and recognized, like the
Conference of 1910, that each State must be
allowed to attach to this word the signification
which it might consider suitable.”
Now, in the days of savagery, of primitive culture,
and even in the earlier centuries of civilization, there
was no notion of obscenity as we to-day understand the
term. The genitals of both males and females were
not considered indecent. They were looked upon by
the people of those distant ages much as the genital
organs of animals are looked upon by us to-day. The
relieving of the calls of nature was not an act to be con­
cealed, and therefore condemned, any more than such
an act on the part of a dog or a horse in the streets is
■
v
f
W
t
{Face page j<
>
4
.
I
'
l
l
ALLOII)
VASK.
P
H
A
L
L
I
C
I-KHKK.
Prom
the
Collection
of
Flniscan,
Gree/t
and
Roman
1
-roin
Liceto,
De
/.accents
(1O52).
Antiquities
in
the
Cabinet
of
the
Hon,
M\
Hamilton
(Naples,
17M).
to be condemned or censured to-day. There was no
disgust associated with the exercise of the excrementary
or sexual systems in the case either of man or animals.
As we have seen, everything connected with repro­
duction, with generation, with fecundity, was deemed
worthy of praise and adoration. It was something to
be exhibited with pride rather than to be concealed or
to be referred to surreptitiously and with disgusting
implications. In certain primitive tribes where it was
conceded to be right or advisable that the wearing of
clothing on ceremonial or other occasions should be
demanded, artificial sexual organs were attached to the
dress. In the Old Testament we find there is no con­
cept of obscenity associated with nudity. King David
exhibited his nakedness while dancing before the ark,
and far from this act calling forth any disapprobation
by God, either expressed or implied, we find that
Michal, for venturing to disapprove, was smitten with
the curse of sterility.
Those were the days when phallic worship was a real
and powerful force. The phallus was worshipped as a
phallus, and not as a symbol which, to the uninitiated,
might never so much as suggest its true nature or im­
plication. In ancient Greek and Etruscan statuary, and
various forms of pictorial art, the ithyphallic figure was
everywhere apparent. The statues of Priapus, and of
other phallic deities, were embellished with representa­
tions of the sexual organ of generation, not only in
realistic form but in the most exaggerated dimensions.
Nor were attempts made to hide such figures, or to re­
strict their interpretation in any way. As we have seen,
not only were they to be found in places of worship,
but in the public roads, in the gardens, and in dwelling-
houses. Men and women carried them about on their
persons. Children, even, wore blatant images of the
PHALLICISM IN RELATION TO CHRISTIANITY 265
266 PHALLIC WORSHIP
human phallus around their necks. In the preceding
chapters of this work instances of these practices have
been provided in numerous countries and through
several centuries.
It is important to realize that in these phallic symbols
there was, to the people of those races and in those days,
nothing in the slightest degree obscene. The obscenity
motif was supplied and read into phallic worship by
observers and critics a thousand years later. It is purely
a question of the individual viewpoint brought about
through current usage, morals, philosophy and fashion.
With the development, through the centuries, of an
elaborate system of morality, gradually and coincident-
ally there emerged a concept of obscenity which in
general terms and subject to certain specific licensed
exceptions, looked upon any form of sex expression as
obscene. With these developments, the outward expres­
sion of phallicism changed. Its exponents, in sheer self-
preservation of their religious beliefs and rites, were
compelled either to practise these rites surreptitiously,
or to adopt a disguise so thorough that none but the
initiated could possibly gather their true meaning. This
last-named method was the more practicable and im­
measurably the safer, as it provided “ safety-valves9
9
which the other did not. It was widely adopted. Thus
phallic symbols took the place of the phallus and its
analogies. In this lies the explanation for the survival
in Christianity of so many phallic observances, em­
blems, rites, etc., long after every outward reference to
or expression of phallicism has been expunged from, at
any rate, the popular aspects of the faith.
The association of obscenity with phallicism has not
been without its noisome implications; nor has it,
largely because of evils of its own making, been free
from objectionable and cumulatively repulsive features.
In this, however, lies no denunciation of phallic worship
per sef but rather a condemnation of the modern lack
of understanding of the part played by sex in the evolu­
tion of religion, and of the grotesquely unfair and un­
justifiable implications which have been so liberally
read into it.
The genuflexion to science, which is so outstanding a
phenomenon in European and American ultra-modern
civilization as to amount to what is virtually a religious
faith, has robbed the generative and reproductive forces
of their one-time mystery and so contributed to the
decay of phallicism. The fact that much of the mystery
which phallicism purported to explain, remains to-day,
so far as concerns the fundamental mystery of life, as
unexplainable in terms of modern science as in the cos­
mogony of Genesis, detracts nothing from the faith of
the people in the promulgations of to-day's hierarchy.
This, however, is a problem which does not come within
the scope of the present work.
PHALLICISM IN RELATION TO CHRISTIANITY 267
A GLOSSARY OF THE PRINCIPAL GODS AND
GODDESSES MENTIONED IN THE PRECEDING
CHAPTERS
Adonai. The name used by the ancient Jews in referring to
Yahweh or Jehovah. The pronunciation of the latter
name was prohibited.
A donis. An ancient Greek sun-god, lover of Venus. The
centre of this god's worship was at Athens. According
to Jerome, the Hebrew god Tammuz was identical with
Adonis. Milton, too, subscribed to this opinion.
Aesculapius. The virgin-born sun-god and saviour of the
ancient Greeks. Also the god of medicine.
iEsus. The male deity of the ancient Druids, worshipped in
the shape of an oak-tree.
A i i r i m a n . The god of evil and destruction of the ancient Per­
sians. He was eternally engaged in conflict with Ormuzd,
the god of light.
Alilat. An Arabian moon
Ilat.
A men-ra. An ancient Egyptian sun-god. Creator and “ Lord
of the Heavens."
A mmon (Amon, A mun). A sun-god of the ancient Romans,
Greeks, Egyptians and Ethiopians. Also the god of rain.
Sometimes referred to as Jupiter Ammon.
Amphion. In Greek mythology referred to as the son of Jupi­
ter and Antiope, and sometimes as the son of Zeus. His
consort was Niobc.
A naitis. Armenian and Persian fertility goddess, a feature of
whose worship was bacchanalianism and promiscuity.
Girls served the goddess as prostitutes.
A nu. Chaldean god of the heavens. Supreme member of the
Chaldean triad.
A nubis. The ancient Egyptian god whose worship and the
rites associated with it, are supposed to have been referred
269
and fertility goddess. Also termed
270 PHALLIC WORSHIP
to by Moses in the twenty-third chapter of Deuteronomy.
Anubis is considered to be the same god as the Creek
Hermes.
A p (Apap). The Egyptian name for Osiris, which sec.
A phrodite. Ancient Greek goddess of love and licentiousness,
to whom sacred prostitutes were dedicated. Worshipped
by the Romans as Venus.
Apis. Ancient Egyptian god, usually worshipped in the form
of a bull.
A pollo. The famous male deity of the ancient Greeks. A
sun-god and a saviour.
A pprius. Same as Priapus, which see.
A rdanari-Iswara. A Hindu hermaphroditic deity.
A rgus. The onc-hundred-cyed god, ever vigilant because two
eyes only were closed during sleep. The peacock's tail was
supposed to have the eyes of Argus.
A rtemis. An ancient Greek moon-goddess; sister of Apollo,
the sun-god, daughter of Zeus. Equivalent to Diana, the
Roman goddess.
A sher. The androgynous creative god of the Canaanites.
A sherah. A Canaanitc moon and fertility goddess.
A s h t o r e t h . The Phoenician and Zidonian moon and fertility
foddess and 4
4Queen of the Heavens worshipped by
olomon (see 1 Kings xi. 5 and 1 Kings xxiii. 13). Same
as the Roman and Greek goddess, Astartc.
A shur (Asur, A ssur). The chief god of the Assyrians. The
4
4erect one the creator. Married to Ishtar.
A starte. The name under which Ashtoreth (which see) was
worshipped in Rome and Greece.
A ttys (Attus, A tys). A Phrygian god who castrated himself.
Cybelc was his lover.
Baal. The androgynous deity of the Canaanites, Chaldeans
and Phoenicians. Baal means 4
4Lord ” or 4
4master,"
referring to the supreme god. The Bible contains many
references to his worship.
Baal-Peor (Baai.-Phegor, Beel-Phecor). 4
4The opener.” Sup­
reme god of the Moabites and Midianites. It was to this
deity that Solomon erected a temple on the Mount of
Olives. Baal-peor was the same as Cncmosh. Also thought
by the ancient Jews to be identical with Priapus, probably
because of the rites associated with his worship.
Bacchus. Ancient Roman god of wine; son of Jupiter and
P R IN C IPA L GODS AND CODDESSES 2 7 I
Scmclc. The goat was sacred to Bacchus. Festivals were
celebrated in his honour. Sometimes referred to as Liber,
and identical with Dionysus of the Greeks. Also a sun-god.
Balder. Ancient Scandinavian god, son of Odin and Frigga.
Bel. Same as Baal, which see.
Belial. The Devil, or god of wickedness. The name given to
Satan by St. Paul.
Beltis. The Queen of the Heavens referred to in the Old
Testament. Wife of Baal.
Bisheswar. One of the names given to Siva.
Bo (Bu). Same as Buddha, which see.
Bona L)ea. Goddess of chastity of the ancient Romans. The
temples dedicated to the goddess were, according to
Juvenal, scenes of licentiousness and bestiality.
Brahm. The abstract principle, or spiritual asexual deity wor­
shipped by the ancient Hindus, father or creator of all the
gods in the Hindu pantheon.
Brahma. The androgynous Hindu creative god. The first
member of the Hindu triad.
Buddha (Budha Gotama). The deified king or hero worshipped
throughout China, Indo-China and Tibet, under various
names.
Camillus. See Mercury.
Canon. Sec Kwai-Yin.
Canopus. The ancient Egyptian god of waters.
Centeotle. A Mexican fertility goddess.
Ceres. Ancient Roman goddess. Daughter of Saturn and
mother of Proserpine. Same as Demeter of Greece.
Ceridwen. Same as Ceres and Dcmeter.
Chemosh. Sun-god of the Moabites, worshipped by Solomon
(1 Kings xi. 7). According to Strabo, Chemosh and Apollo
were names referring to the same god.
Chloris. Same as Flora, which see.
Chronus (Cronus). Same as Saturn, El and Ra.
Cihuacoiiuatl. Ancient Mexican fertility goddess.
Cinteoi'l. Same as Centeotle, which see.
Cneph. Same as Kneph, which see.
Cotytto. Athenian goddess of licentiousness. The priests
dedicated to her were termed Baptsc.
Crishna. See Krishna.
Cromcruach. The supreme fertility god of ancient Ireland.
Cunti. Hindu goddess of fecundity; a personification of Sakti.
Cybele. Ancient moon-goddess. Wife of Saturn. *
*The Great
Mother ” of the ancients. Identical with Ceres, Ops, Rhea
and Vesta.
D acon. The monstrous god of the Philistines; half-man and
half-fish. Some mythologists are of opinion that Oannes,
the god of the Babylonians, was really Dagon.
Danae (Dakai). Ancient pagan sun-god, son of Belus.
Demeter. Ancient Greek earth-goddess, mother of Proserpine
and sister of Zeus. Same as the Roman goddess, Ceres.
Devaki. A name for Krishna, which see.
Devi. Same as Mahadevi, which see.
Dew. An Athenian fertility goddess, sometimes referred to as
Hersc.
Diana. The moon-goddess of the ancient Romans, daughter
of Jupiter, and sister of Apollo. Identical with the Greek
goddesses, Artemis and Hecate.
Dionysus. Ancient Greek god of wine, same as the Roman
Bacchus, which see. Also a sun-god.
Dis. The name under which the Gauls worshipped Pluto, god
of hell.
D urca-Kali. The fierce licentious Hindu goddess who was the
consort of Siva, and the personification of Sakti. Also
referred to simply as Kali. In his work, The Meaning of
Sacrifice (Hogarth Press, 1930), Dr. Money-Kyrle says “ we
can be fairly confident that Kali was a phallic goddess and
that she castrated and destroyed her consort.”
Dyans (Dyaus). Same as Zeus, which see.
Ea. The third member of the Chaldean triad: Anu, Iloa and
Ea.
El. Sun-god of the Syrians and Semites. Same as II and Ra.
El Belus. An Assyrian and Babylonian sun-god. The Tower
of Babel was erected for the worshipping of this deity.
Erecthonios. Same as Erichthonius, which see.
Erichthonius. Monster pagan god with the body of a man and
the tail of a serpent.
Eswara. The principal god of a sect of Brahmans known as
Seyvias. Married to Parvati.
Faunus. Same as Pan, which see.
Flora. Ancient Roman goddess of flowers, supposed to be a
deified prostitute, for which reason the festivals celebrated
annually in her honour were orgies of promiscuity. Flora
was identical with the Greek goddess Chloris.
272 PHALLIC WORSHIP
PRINCIPAL GODS AND GODDESSES 273
Frea. Same as Frigga, which sec.
Frey. An ancient Teutonic god, whose image bore an enor­
mous phallus.
Frigga. The premier goddess of ancient Scandinavia. Wife of
the god Odin and mother of the gods. Personification of
the earth. Identical with Hertha.
Gaea. Earth-goddess of the ancient Greeks. Consort of Oura-
nus. According to Homer, she was universally worshipped
in Greece, and black sheep were sacred to her. Sometimes
referred to as Ge or Ghe.
Ge (Ghe). Same as Gaea, which see.
Gotama. Same as Buddha, which see. Durga is sometimes
referred to as Gotama. Forlong says that one of the twelve
great Lingams of India was named Gotami-Jsvara.
Harpocrates. An Egyptian god of silence.
Hea. Same as Iioa, which see.
Hebon. A god of the Sicilians, worshipped in die form of a
bull.
Hegate. An ancient Greek moon-goddess, daughter of Zeus
and Demeter, named “ Queen of the Night,” and invari­
ably accompanied by Stygian dogs. Identical with Diana.
Hekate. See Hecate.
Helios. Sun-god of ancient Greece. Same as Hclius of the
Egyptians.
Helius. An Egyptian sun-god. Married to Ops. Same as
Helios of the Greeks.
Hera. A noted pagan goddess of marriage and pregnancy.
Some mythologists arc of opinion that she was the wife
of Zeus, while others hold that she was his sister. Identi­
cal with the Roman goddess Juno.
Heracles. Same as Hercules, which see.
Hercules. Noted pagan sun-god, worshipped by many nations
and under various names. Son of Zeus.
Hermes. Ancient Greek god, son of Zeus, out of Maia. Festi­
vals were celebrated in his honour.
Herse. Same as Dew, which see.
Hertha. The earth-goddess of ancient Germany. Tacitus sa^s
Hertha was mother of all the gods. Same as the Scandi­
navian Frigga.
Hoa. One of the gods comprising the Chaldean triad.
Hu. The principal Cymri god. Married to Ceridwen. Also
the name of a god of the ancient Egyptians.
s
*74 PHALLIC WORSHIP
II. Same as El, which see.
Ilat. Same as Alilat, which see.
Io. Name of a deified priestess of Hera, representing the moon
and the female principle in creation. Some mythologists
say she is the same as Isis.
Isa. One of the names given to Siva. Also the name of a
Scandinavian goddess.
Isiitar. The favourite female deity of the Assyrians and
Babylonians; goddess of love and fertility, and creative
mother. Equivalent to Ashtorcth and Astarte.
Isis. Famous Egyptian moon-goddess, symbolized by the cow.
Mother of Horus and wife of Osiris. Identical with Ceres,
Hecate and Juno.
Isvara (Iswara). The word means “ Lord,” and is one of the
many names under which Siva (q.v.) was worshipped.
Izanaci. “ The male who invites.” Japanese male creative
deity.
Izanami. “ The female who invites.” Japanese female creative
deity.
Jah. Same as Jehovah, which sec.
Jehovah. The unpronounceable (by prohibition and through
fear) name of the supreme god ot the Hebrews.
Jove. Same as Jupiter, which see.
Juggernaut (Jucgernath, Jugat-Nath). Same as Vishnu, which
see.
Juno. Moon-goddess, earth-goddess, and “ Queen of the
Heavens.” Wife of Jupiter, protective deity of the female
sex. The name June was given to the sixth month in the
year in honour of the goddess. Identical with Hera.
Jupiter. Sky-god and “ Lord of the Heavens.” Married to
Juno. Later Jupiter was worshipped as a sun-god. Identi­
cal with Zeus of the Greeks, and Ammon of the Egyptians.
Jupiter A mmon. Same as Ammon, which see.
K au. Same as Durga-Kali, which see.
Kami-musuri. A Japanese phallic god.
Khem. A god of generation worshipped by the ancient Egyp­
tians.
K neph. Ancient Egyptian god, which, according to Eusebius,
was worshipped in the shape of a serpent, and conceived
to be the creator of life. Also spelled Cneph.
Kolowissi (Koloowisi). A serpent-god of the American
Indians, sometimes referred to as “ The Plumed Serpent.”
Konsei Myojin. A Japanese generative and priapic god.
K rishna. An anthropomorphic incarnation of the Hindu god,
Vishnu. Virgin-born and a saviour. Equivalent to Jesus
of Christianity.
Kwai-Yin. “ Queen of the Heavens ” and generative goddess
of the Japanese and Chinese. Also referred to as Canon.
Kwan-Non. The Japanese Venus. Same as Kwai-Yin.
Liber. Same as Bacchus, which sec.
L ucifer. See Satan.
L ucina. Moon-goddess of andent Rome. Ludna presided
over pregnant women.
Lui-Shin. The Chinese god of thunder.
Maiiadeva. One of the names under which Siva is worshipped.
Mani. An ancient Scandinavian moon-goddess.
Marduk. Ancient Babylonian sun-god, who was responsible
for the founding of the Zodiac. Creator and king of all
the gods in the pantheon. Son of Ea.
Mars. The god of war in ancient Rome, sire of Romulus by
Rhea. No member of the female sex was permitted to
worship in the temples dedicated to Mars, unless she
donned male attire.
Mendes. Ancient Egyptian sun-god, worshipped in the shape
of a goat, principally at a town with the same name as the
deity. The god Mont, which was worshipped in later
centuries, was identical with Mendes.
Mercury (Mercurius). God of eloquence of ancient Rome.
Same as Camillus and the Greek god Hermes.
Milcom (Milkom). Same as Moloch, which see.
Min. An ithyphallic generative god of the ancient Egyptians.
Also referred to as Amsu.
Mitoshi-no-Kami. The Japanese generative god of rice.
Mnevis. An ancient Egyptian goa worshipped in the form of
a black bull.
Moloch. The chief god of the Ammonites. Human sacrifices
were offered to Moloch, and he appears to have been the
same god as Baal. Also referred to as Milcom.
Mont. See Mendes.
M ut. A fertility goddess of the ancient Egyptians.
Mutinus. An ancient Roman god identical with Priapus (q.v.).
Mutinus was thought to possess the power of protecting
the city of Rome from evil and destruction.
Mylitta. The pagan (Babylonian and Assyrian) fertility god-
PRINCIPAL CODS AND GODDESSES 275
2^6 PHALLIC WORSHIP
dess to whom women were compelled to sacrifice their
virginity. Wife of Baal. Herodotus states that Mylitta
was merely a name given to Aphrodite.
N eptune. The god of the seas. Worshipped extensively by
the ancient Romans. Same as Poseidon of the Greeks.
N ut. The “ Queen of the Heavens ” in ancient Egypt.
Oaknes. A Babylonian monster god, being half-fish and half­
man. According to many mvthologists, Oannes was really
Dagon under another name. Also same as Ea.
Odin. Ancient Scandinavian and Danish sky-god. Husband
of Frigga. It was to Odin that Earl Hakon sacrificed his
son.
Ops. Fertility goddess of ancient Rome. Married to Saturn.
Identical with Cybelc and Rhea.
Ormuzd. Serpent-god of the ancient Persians. Opposed to
Ahriman.
Osiris. Ancient Egyptian sun-god and saviour. Married to
Isis. Worshipped in the shape of an ox. Called Ap or
Apap by the Egyptians.
Ouranus. God of the heavens and husband of the earth-
goddess, Ghc. By some mythologists, Ouranus is held to
have been the father of Hermes. Also spelled Uranus.
Pales. Ancient Roman guardian god of shepherds and their
charges.
Pallas. Goddess of war and wisdom. Daughter of Jupiter.
Also called Athena and Minerva.
Pan. Ancient Greek guardian deity of shepherds and their
flocks. Son of Hermes, and leader of the satyrs. Pan was
often symbolized in the shape of a monster with the body
of a man, and the legs and feet of a goat. Some mytholo­
gists are of opinion that he was the same as Faunus.
Parvati. The moon-goddess of the Hindus. A personification
of Sakti, thus representing the principle of fertility and
the Great Mother. Consort or wife of Siva. Often referred
to as Durga.
Pelops. A deified prince of ancient Greece.
Persephone. Same as Proserpine, which see.
Perseus. Athenian and Egyptian god, son of Jupiter by Danae.
Pertunda. Pagan goddess of sexual intercourse.
Phanes. An androgynous deity of the Orphic system, thought
to have come out of the mundane egg, and reputed to be
the father of the gods.
Ph c e b u s . One of the names given to Apollo, which sec.
?htha. The supreme androgynous deity of the ancient Egyp­
tians. Also called Ptah.
Pluto. Ancient pagan sun-god, son of Saturn and Ops, and a
brother of Jupiter. He is reputed to have carried off the
goddess Proserpine and made her queen of hell. Also
worshipped by the Gauls under the name of Dis.
Poseidon. The god of the seas of ancient Greece. Identical
with Neptune of the Romans.
Priapus. Notorious Greek fertility god and the most celebrated
of all phallic deities; worshipped in various countries and
under many names. The images of Priapus were usually
embellished with immense genitalia. Often referred to
as the “ God of the Gardens.”
Proserpine. Daughter of Jupiter and Ceres. Married Pluto,
who took her to the infernal regions where she reigned as
queen. Sometimes referred to as Persephone.
Ptah. See Phtha.
Punchanunu. The Hindu god with five faces, or Siva under
another name.
Python. Monstrous serpent-god, which gave his name to the
Pythian games, instituted in his honour.
Q u a n w o n . Same as Kwai-Yin, which see.
Quetzalcoatl. Ancient Mexican virgin-born sun-god and
saviour. Crucified in the manner of all saviour gods.
Ra. A sun-god of the ancient Egyptians. Also a name of one
of the Babylonian gods.
Rhea. Ancient earth-goddess, daughter of Uranus and Ghe.
Same as Cybcle and Ops.
Rudra. One of the names of Siva, which sec.
Sake No Kami. Japanese phallic deities.
Salivahana. The Hindu serpent-god of wisdom.
Sarasvati (Saraswati). The Hindu goddess, wife of Brahma,
often represented seated upon a peacock.
Satan. The chief of the band of " fallen angels ” residing in
hell, and the enemy of man, in Christian mythology. The
supreme god of the Devil-worshippers. Also referred to
as Belial, Lucifer, Beelzebub and the Devil.
Saturn. Apparently the first deity to be worshipped by the
Romans, revered as father of the gods. Human sacrifices
were offered to Saturn. Identical with Chronus of the
Greek pantheon.
PRINCIPAL GODS AND GODDESSES 277
PHALLIC WORSHIP
Seb. Ancient Egyptian earth-goddess.
Semele. Fertility goddess of die Semites.
Shala. The consort of the sky-god, Vul.
Siianc-te. Creator god of the Chinese; father of the universe.
Suing-moo. Chinese goddess; queen of the heavens.
Shiva. See Siva.
Shu. Ancient Egyptian god, usually represented as supporting
Nut, the queen of the heavens.
Siri. The consort of Vishnu.
Sita. An incarnation of Lakshini, and wife of Rama, the
Hindu equivalent of Proserpine.
Siva. The famous tivc-faccd god of India. The third member
of the Hindu triad.
Sri. Wife of Vishnu.
T aka-mi-Musubi. A Japanese generative and priapic god.
T ammuz. Same as Adonis, which sec.
T excatlipoca. One of the chief gods of the ancient Mexicans.
Tcxcatlipoca was first a sky-god and later a sun-god.
T iioth. An ancient Egyptian moon-god, with the head of an
ibis.
T lazoi.teoti.. The goddess of love of the ancient Mexicans.
T r i c l a f . A pagan name for the god of hell.
T riglav. The thrcc-hcaded sky-god of the Slavs.
T riphallus. Same as Priapus, which sec.
T utinus. An ithyphallic god of the ancient Romans, very
similar to Mutinus.
T yphon. The ancient Egyptian god of evil, brother of Osiris.
Um (Uma). A name for the wife of Siva, and the personification
of the female principle— Sakti.
Ur. Oriental moon-god, or god of light. Also an ancient
Assyrian fire-god.
Uranus. See Ouranus.
Venus. The famous Roman androgynous deity of love, sup­
posed to be identical with Ashtoreth or Astartc. Same
as Aphrodite of the Greeks.
Virac. Androgynous Hindu deity who was responsible for the
creation of Siva and Parvati.
Vishnu. The second member of the famous Hindu triad.
Members of the sect devoted to the worship of Vishnu are
termed Vaishnavas.
Vul. Assyrian and Chaldean sky-god. Married to Shala.
Xochiouetzal. Mexican fertility goddess.
278
Xochitecatl. Mexican goddess of generation.
Xopancale. Aztec fertility god.
Y ahweh. Tribal god of the ancient Hebrews. Also called Jah,
Jehovah and Jahveh. Referred to as Adonai by the Jews.
Zeus. Ancient Greek sky-god. Zeus ranked as perhaps the
most important deity of ancient Greece, being thought
to be the father of both gods and men. He was the son
of Chronus and Rhea. Equivalent to the Roman god,
Jupiter.
Zoroaster. Famous sun-god of ancient Persia, and reputed to
be the inventor of magic.
PRINCIPAL GODS AND GODDESSES 279
BIBLIOGRAPHY
William Alexander, The History of Women, from the Earliest
Antiquity to the Present Time, Strahan & Cadcll, London,
^779-
Grant Allen, The Attis of Cuius Valerius Catullus, David Nutt,
London, 1892.
Anonymous, Nature Worship, privately printed, London, 1891.
Anonymous, Phallic Miscellanies, privately printed, London,
1891.
Anonymous, Phallic Objects, privately printed, London, 1889.
Anonymous, Phallism, privately printed, London, 1889.
Anonymous, Priapeia: Diversorum veterum poetarum in
Priapum lusus, Vcnetiis, 1517; and Englisn translation,
privately printed, Cosmopofi, 1890.
W. G. Aston, Shinto: The Ancient Religion of Japan, Con­
stable, London, 1907.
Aurclinius Augustinus (St. Augustine), The Citie of God.
Arthur Avalon. Sec under Sir John Woodroffc.
Right Hon. Lord Avebury, Origin of Civilization and the
Primitive Condition of Man, sixth edition, Longmans,
Green, London, 1911.
Hubert Howe Bancroft, The Native Races of the Pacific Slates
of North America, Appleton, New York, 1874.
Sabine Baring-Gould, The Origin and Development of Religi­
ous Belief, London, 1869.
W. A. Becker, Chariclcs.
Balthazar Bckker, The World Bewitched, London, 1695.
John Bell, The New Pantheon, J. Bell, London, 1790.
John Bellamy, The History of all Religions, London, 1812.
Francis Bernier, Travels in the Mogul Empire, Pickering, Lon­
don, 1826.
Isabella L. Bird, Unbeaten Tracks in Japan, London, 1880.
Iwan Bloch, The Sexual Life of our Time, translated from the
sixth German edition by M. Eden Paul, M.D., Rebman,
London, 1908.
James Bonwick, Egyptian Belief and Modern Thought, Kegan
280
BIBLIOGRAPHY 28l
Paul, London, 1878.
W. C. Borlase, Cornwall, Oxford, 1754.
John Gregory Bourkc, The Snake Dance of the Moquis of
Arizona, Sampson Low, London, 1884.
Richard Bolt Brash, The Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland,
Dublin, 1875.
Robert Briffault, The Mothers: A Study of the Origins of
Sentiments and Institutions, Allen & Unwin, London, 1927.
Thomas Broughton, An Historical Dictionary of all Religions
from the Creation of the World to this Present Time, Lon­
don, 1742.
Jacob Bryant, A New System, or an Analysis of Ancient Myth­
ology, London, 1774.
Claudius Buchanan, An Apology for Promoting Christianity
in India, Cadcll & Davies, London, 1813.
Francis Buchanan, A Journey from Madras, 1807.
Kdmund Buckley, Phallicism in Japan, University of Chicago
Press, Chicago, 1895.
Sir E. A. T. Wallis Budge, The Gods of the Egyptians,
Methuen, London, 1904.
Christian C. J. Bunsen, Egypt’s Place in Universal History,
translated from the German by Charles H. Cottcrell, Long­
mans, Green, London, 1848.
John Lewis Burckhardt, Arabic Proverbs, London, 1830.
James Burgess, The Rock Temples of Elephanta, Bombay, 1871.
George Catlin, Letters and Notes on the Manners, Customs
and Conditions of the North American Indians, published
by the Author, London, 1841.
George Catlin, O-kec-pa, Trubncr, London, 1867.
L. M. Child, The Progress of Religious Ideas Through Suc­
cessive Ages, Francis, New York, 1855.
Chapman Cohen, Religion and Sex, Foulis, London, 1919.
Charles Coleman, The Mythology of the Hindus, London, 1832.
J. W. Colenso, The Pentateuch Examined, Longmans, Green,
London, 1862.
G. W. Cox, The Mythology of the Aryan Nations, Longmans,
Green, London, 1870.
Ernest Crawley, The Mystic Rose, Macmillan, London, 1902.
H. Cutner, A Short History of Sex-Worship, Watts, 1940.
John Davenport, Remarks on the Symbols of the Reproductive
Powers (Aphrodisiacs and Anti-aphrodisiacs), privately
printed, London, 1869.
282 PHALLIC W ORSHIP
Davis, History of China.
John Bathurst Deane, The Worship of the Serpent Traced
Throughout the World, London, 1830.
A. N. Didron, Christian Iconography, London, 1851.
T. W. Doane, Bible Myths ana Their Parallels in Other Reli­
gions, fourth edition, Somcrby, New York, 1882.
Edward Dodvvell, A Classical and Topographical Tour
Through Greece, London, 1819.
Christopher Dresser, Japan, its Architecture, Art and Art
Manufactures, Longmans, Green, London, 1882.
Abbe Jean-Antoine Dubois, Description of the Character,
Manners, and Customs of the People of India, and of their
Institutions Religious and Civil, London, 1817.
John Dudley, Naology: A Treatise on the Origin, Progress
and Symbolical Import of the Sacred Structures of the
Most Eminent Nattons and Ages of the World, London,
1846.
Alexander Duff, India, and Indian Missions, Edinburgh, 1839.
Jacqucs-Antoine Dulaure, Histoirc abregec de differens eultes,
Paris, 1825.
Jacqucs-Antoine Dulaure, Des divinites generatrices, ou Du
culte du phallus chez les anciens et les modernes, Paris,
1885*
F. T. Ehvorthy, The Evil Eye, Murray, London, 1895,
Johann P. Ermann, Life in Ancient Egypt.
Henri Estiennc, A World of Wonders, translated by Richard
Carcw, London, 1607.
Eusebius, Ecclesiastical History.
G. S. Faber, The Origin of Pagan Idolatry, London, 1816.
James Fergusson, Tree and Serpent Worship, London, 1873.
Major-General J. G. R. Forlong, Rivers of Life, Quaritch, Lon­
don, 1883.
Major-General J. G. R. Forlong, Faiths of Man: A Cyclo­
paedia of Religions, Quaritch, London, 1906.
Thomas Dudley Fosbroke. Antiquities, London, 1825.
Sir J. G. Frazer, Adonis, Attis, Osiris: Studies in the History
of Oriental Religion, Macmillan, London, 1914.
John Fryer, A New Account of East India and Persia, Lon­
don, 1698.
James Gardner, The Faiths of the World: An Account of all
Religions and Religious Sects, Their Doctrines, Rites,
Ceremonies and Customs, Edinburgh, 1858.
BIBLIOGRAPHY 283
John Garrett, A Classical Dictionary of India (Supplement)
Madras, 1873.
Ignaz Goldzhicr, Mythology among the Hebrews and its His­
torical Development, Juandon, 1877.
Francesco Gori, Museum etruscum, Florence, 1737.
John Gregory, Notes and Observations upon Some Passages of
Scripture, London, 1650.
W. E. Griffis, The Religions of Japan, Hodder & Stoughton,
I*ondon, 1895.
Alexander Hamilton, A New Account of the East Indies, Edin­
burgh, 1727.
Lady Augusta Hamilton, Marriage Rites, London, 1822.
Pierre-Fran^ois Hancarvillc, Collection of Etruscan, Greek and
Roman Antiquities from the Cabinet of the Hon. Wm.
Hamilton, Hts Britannic Majesty's Envoy Extraordinary
at the Court of Naples, 4 volumes, Naples, 1766.
E. S. Hartland, article on Phallicism in the Encyclopaedia of
Religion and Ethics, edited by Dr. James Hastings, Vol.
IX.
Godfrey Higgins, Anacalypsis, an Attempt to draw aside the
Veil of the Saitic Isis; or An Inquiry into the Origin of
Languages, Nations and Religions, London, 1836.
Godfrey Higgins, The Celtic Drutds, London, 1829.
Magnus Hirschfeld, Women, East and West, Heinemann
(Medical Books), London, 1935.
John Horsley, Britannia Romana, London, 1732.
Clifford Howard, Sex and Religion, Williams & Norgate, Lon­
don, 1925.
Thomas Inman, Ancient Faiths embodied in Ancient Names,
printed for the Author, Liverpool, 1868.
Thomas Inman, Ancient Pagan and Modern Christian Sym­
bolism Exposed and Explained, Liverpool, 1869.
Hargrave Jennings, The Indian Religions, Rcdway, London,
1890.
Hargrave Jennings, Phallicism: Celestial and Terrestrial,
Heathen and Christian, its Connexion with the Rosicru-
cians and the Gnostics and its Foundations in Buddhism,
Redway, London, 1884.
Hargrave Jennings, The Rosicrucians, Their Rites and Mys­
teries,,Hotten, London. 1870.
Sir William Jones, Works, London, 1799
E. Kaempfcr, The History of Japan, London, 1728.
Genchi Kato, A Study of the Development of Religious Ideas
among the Japanese People as illustrated by Japanese
Phallicism, Tokyo, 1924.
Marcus Keane, The Towers and Temples of Ancient Ireland,
Dublin, 1867.
Major-General Vans Kennedy, Researches into the Nature and
Affinity of Ancient and Hindu Mythology, London, 1831.
John Kcnrick, Ancient Egypt under the Pharaohs, London,
185°.
C. \V. King, The Gnostics and their Remains, Ancient and
Mediaeval, London, 1864.
Richard Payne Knight, An Account of the Remains of the
Worship of Priapus lately existing at Iscrnia . . . to which
is added a Discourse on the Worship of Priapus, London,
1786.
Richard Payne Knight, A Discourse on the Worship of Priapus,
and its Connexion with the Mystic Theology of the
Ancients, to which is added An Essay on the Worship 0/
the Generative Powers during the Middle Ages of Europe.
Privately printed, ffatten, London, 1865.
Richard Payne Knight, An Inquiry into the Symbolical Lan­
guage of Ancient Art and Mythology, I^ondon, 1818.
Jcan-Baptistc Lajard, Recherches sur le culte public et les
mystcr&s de Mithra cn Orient et cn Occident, Paris, 1869.
Edward William Lane, An Account of the Manners and Cus­
toms of the Modern Egyptians, London, 1836.
Louis M. Langlcs, Monuments andetts et modernes de VHin-
doustan, Paris, 1821.
Ridolfo Vittorio Lanzoni, Dizionario di mitologia cgizia,
Torino, 1881-1886.
John Lemprierc, Bibliotheca classica; or a Classical Diction­
ary, London, 1788.
Witte J. de Lcnormant, Elite des monuments ceramo-
grapltiques, materiaux pir Vhistoirc des religions et des
mccurs de Vantiquite, Paris, 1844.
Thomas Lewis, Origines Hebrxx: The Antiquities of the
Hebrew Republick, London, 1734.
Fortunio Liceto, Dc lucernis antiquorum reconditis libb. sex,
1652.
Livy, History of Rome.
Lucianus, Works.
Maffei, Gcmme antiche figurate, Rome, 1707-9.
2 8 4 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Pierre-Sylvain Marechal, Antiquites d’Hcrculanum, Paris,
1780.
Martin Martin, Description of the Western Islands of Scotland,
London, 1716.
Gerald Massey, A Book of Beginnings, Williams & Norgatc,
London, 1881.
Gerald Massey, The Natural Genesis: or Second Part of a Book
of Beginnings, Williams & Norgatc, London, 1883.
Thomas Maurice, Indian Antiquities, printed for the Author,
London, 1793.
Katherine Mayo, Mother India, Harcourt, Brace, New York,
1927.
Rajendralala Mitra, The Antiquities of Orissa, Calcutta, 1875.
Sir Monier-Williams, Religious Thought and Life in India,
Murray, 1883.
B. de Montfaucon, Antiquity Explained, and Represented in
Sculptures, translated into English by David Humphreys,
London, 1721.
Edward Moor, The Hindu Pantheon, London, 1810.
Neil Gordon Munro, Prehistoric Japan, Yokohama, 1911.
Musee Royal de Naples, Paris, 1836.
Henry O’Brien, The Round Towers of Ireland; or The Mys-
tcries of Freemasonry, of Sabianism, and of Buddhism, for
the First Time Revealed, London, 1834.
George Ogle, Antiquities Explained, London, 1737.
George Oliver, The History of Initiation, printed for the
author, London, 1829.
J. C. Oman, The Brahmans, Theists, and Muslims of India,
Philadelphia, 1907.
J. C. Oman, Cults, Customs and Superstitions of India, Phila­
delphia, 1908.
John O'Neill, The Night of the Gods, London, 1893.
Charles Owen, An Essay Towards a Natural History of Ser­
pents, London, 1742.
B. Picart, The Ceremonies and Religious Customs of the Vari­
ous Nations of the Known World, London, 1733.
Pliny, Natural History.
Robert Plot, The Natural History of Staffordshire, Oxford,
1686.
Captain W. R. Pogson, A History of the Boondelas, Calcutta,
1828.
Joseph Priestley, A Comparison of the Institutions of Moses
BIBLIOGRAPHY 285
286 PHALLIC WORSHIP
with those of the Hindus and Other Ancient Nations,
printed for the Author, 1799.
Sir Thomas Rallies, The History of Java, London, 1817.
Abate Ignazio Maria Raponi, Recucil de pierres antiques
gravies concernant Vhistoire, la mythologie, la fable, les
ceremonies rcligieuscs, les costumes des ancicns peuples,
at les plus fameux personnages de Yantiquite, avec leur
description, Rome, 1786.
Winwood Reade, Savage Africa, Smith Elder, London, 1863.
Albert Revillc, Dogma Deity Jesus Christ, 1870.
John Robinson, Archxologia Crxca, or The Antiquites of
Greece, London, 1807.
Earl of Roden, Progress of the Reformation of Ireland, London,
1851.
Julius Rosenbaum, The Plague of Lust, being a History of
Venereal Disease in Classical Antiquity, and including
Detailed Investigations into the Cult of Venus, and Phal­
lic Worship, etc. Translated from the sixth German edition
by an Oxford M.A. Carrington, Paris, 1901.
T. St. Johnston, The Islanders of the Pacific, Fisher Unwin,
London, 1921.
William W. Sanger, The History of Prostitution: Its Extent,
Causes and Effects Throughout the World, Medical Pub­
lishing Co., New York, 1913.
Arthur Schopenhauer, The World as Will and Idea, translated
from the German by R. B. Haldane, M.A., and J. Kemp,
M.A. Trubncr, London, 1883.
George Ryley Scott, Encyclopxdia of Sex, Werner Laurie, Lon­
don, 1939.
George Ryley Scott, Sex and Its Mysteries, John Bale Sons &
Danielsson, London, 1929.
George Ryley Scott, A History of Prostitution from Antiquity
to the Present Day, Werner Laurie, London, 1936.
W. B. Scabrook, The Magic Island, Harcourt, Brace, New
York, 1929.
John Benjamin Seely, The Wonders of Elora, London, 1824.
Edward Sellon, Annotations on the Sacred Writings of the
Hindus, being an Epitome of Some of the Most Re­
markable and Leading Tenets in the Faith of that People,
printed for private circulation, London, 1902.
Thomas Shaw, Travels and Observations Relating to Several
Parts of Barbary and the Levant, Oxford, 1738.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
M. A. Sherring, The Sacred City of the Hindus: An Account
of Benares in Ancient and Modern Times, Trubner, Lon­
don, 1868.
Henry Trail Simpson, Archxologia Adelensis, London, 1879.
Skinner, Present State of Peru.
Ephraim G. Scjuier, The Serpent Symbol, and the Worship
of the Reciprocal Principles of Nature in America, Put­
nam, New York, 1851.
John Lloyd Stephens, Incidents of Travel in Yucatan, London,
1843-
William Graham Sumner, Folkways: A Study of the Sociologi­
cal Importance of Usages, Manners, Customs, Mores, and
Morals, Ginn & Co., Boston, 1907.
C. H. Tawney, The Ocean of Story, privately printed for sub­
scribers by Chas. J. Sawyer, Ltd., London, 1924.
Robert Taylor, The Diegests, London, 1841.
Robert Taylor, The DeviVs Pulpit, London.
P. A. Thompson, Lotus Land: Being an Account of the
Country and the People of Southern Siam, Werner Laurie,
London, 1906.
Edgar Thurston, Castes and Tribes of India, Madras, 1909.
Lieutenant-Colonel James Tod, Travels in Western India, Lon­
don, 1839.
Louis-Edmond Tudot, Collection de figurines cn argile, Paris,
i860.
Horace Grant Underwood, The Religions of Eastern Asia,
Macmillan, New York, 1910.
Charles Vallancey, Prospectus of a Dictionary, Dublin, 1802.
Nicolas Vcnette, Tableau de Vamour conjugal, ou la Genera­
tion de Vhomme, 1764.
Tito Vignoli, Myth and Science, Kcgan Paul, 1898.
J. Ph. Vogel, Indian Serpent-lore, or The Nagas in Hindu
Legend and Art, Probsthain, London, 1926.
C. Stamland Wake, Serpent Worship and Other Essays, Lon­
don, 1888.
O. A. Wall, Sex and Sex Worship (Phallic Worship), Kimpton,
London, 1920.
William Ward, A View of the History, Literature, and Religion
of the Hindoos, London, 1817.
E. A. Westermarck, The History of Human Marriage, Mac­
millan, London, 1891.
Hoddcr M. Westropp and C. Staniland Wake, Ancient Symbol
287
288 PHALLIC WORSHIP
Worship: Influence of the Phallic idea in the Religions of
Antiquity, Bouton, New York, 1875.
Gilbert White, The Natural History of Selbornc, London,
•789-
W. J. Wilkins, Modern Hinduism, Fisher Unwin, I^ondon,
1887.
Sir J. G. Wilkinson. Manners and Customs of the Ancient
Egyptians, London, 1837.
H. II. Wilson, Works, London, 1862.
Sir John WoodrolTc (Arthur Avalon), Shakti and Shdktu,
Luzac & Co., London, 1920.
Sir John WoodrolTc (Arthur Avalon), Principles of Tantra,
edited with an introduction and commentary by Arthur
Avalon, Luzac & Co.. London, 1914.
Dr. Jacobus X----- , Untrodden Fields of Anthropology, Paris,
1S98.
P. Zorn, Petri Zornii Biblotheca Antiquaria, 1725.
INDEX
A b a r b a n e l , 3 2
A braxas, 105, 106
Acha, Rabbi, 135
Adonai, 99, 269
Adonis, 20, 22, 31, 14m., 269
Aesculapius, 20, 30, 82, 269
AEsus, 35
A g a p x , scandals connected with,
*57. 258
Ahriman, 80, 82, 95, 98, 269
Alilat, 16
Allen, Grant, 11
Amen-ra, 22, 269
American Indians, phallic wor*
ship among. 120, 121
Ammon, 20, 158, 176, 269
Amphion, 22, 269
Amulets, phallic, 60
Amulets, phallic, for protection
against evil eye, 107, 108
A nacalypsis, viii, I95»i.
Anai'tis, 70, 269
Anaxagoras, 18
A n cie n t F a iths, viii
Animal deities, phallic signifi­
cance of, 28 e t seq.
Animal worship, 26, 227
Animals, deification of, 30
Animism in primitive life, 9
A n tiq u ity E xp la in ed , 105
Anu, 258, 269
Anubis, 269
Ap, 270
Apap, 82
Aphrodite, 151. 160, 270
Apis, worship of, 25
Apollo, 22, 31, 34, 82, 131, 270
Apple tree, worship of, 37
Apprius. See Priapus
Apuleius, 156
A rch xolog i'a , 233, 235
Archseologia A d clen sis, 233
Ardanari-Iswara, 88, 89, 270
A rgha. See Ark
Argus, 270
Aristomcncs, 113
Aristophanes, 96, 154, 178
Aristotle, 18
Ark, phallic significance of the,
144, 201
Armstrong, A. L , 236
Arnobius, 81, 108, 170
Arriaga, n
Artemis, 16, 270
Asher, 43, 143, 176, 258, 270
Ashcrah, 16, 36, 143
Ashtoreth, 16, 36, 37, 43, 135, 141,
270
Ashur, 270
A sia tic R esearches, 187
Asiatich M iscellany, 207
Ass, origin of sacrifice of, 155,
>
5*
Astarte, 16, 37, 43, 70, 175, 196,
270
Aston, W. C., 230
Athanasius, 262
Atharva-vdda, 183
Athenians as sun-worshippers, 23
Attys, 22, 270
Augustus, 113
Australia, phallic worship in, 124,
i*5
Avalon, Arthur. See Sir John
Woodroffc
Baal, 42, 43, 82, 133, 134, 141,
*55. 27°
Baal, worship of, 16, 20, 22, 23,
1 3 6
Baal worshipped by Solomon, 141
Baal-Peor, 135, 270
BaahPcor, obscene ceremonies in
connexion with worship of, 134
289 T
2 9 0 INDEX
Baal-Pcor, sacrifices to, 134
Baal-Peor, worship of, 70
Bacchanalia of Romans, abolition
of, 165
Bacchanalia of Romans, descrip­
tion of, 161 et seq.
Bacchus, 20, 22, 24, 32, 36, 158,
168, 180, 270
Bacchus, birth of, 22
Bacchus, connexion with ser­
pent-worship, 81
Bacchus depicted as a bull, t8o
Bacchus, description of manner
of worshipping, 159
Bachofen, 15
Balder, 22, 24, 271
Balfour, Dr. C. E., 90
Bancroft, H. H., 124, 126
Banks, Sir Joseph, 248
Baring-Gould, a., 93
Baruch, 64
Bel. See Baal
Belgium, phallic worship in, 247
Belial, 271
Bell, John, 167, 212
Bellamy, John, 83
Bells, use of, in phallic worship,
207
Bcltis, 42, 271
Bernier, Francis, 215
Bestiality, belief in, 113
Birds, worship of, 30, 33
Birdwood, Sir George, 194, 220
Bisheswar, 199, 271
Black Mass, 100
Bo, 271
Bona Dca, 131, 271
Borlase. W. C., 233
Bourke, John G., 121
Brahm, 184, 255, 271
Brahma, 51, i8t, 183, 186, 199,
259, 271
Briffault, R., 17, 113
Britannia Romanat 234
Bu. See Bo
Buchanan, C., 201
Buchanan, Francis, 74
Buckley, Edmund, vi, ix
Buddha, 22, 259, 271
Buffalo dance of the Sioux
Indians, phallic aspects of, 11$
et seq.
Bull, worship of the, 179 et seq.
Bull, worship of the, in China,
225
Bull, worship of the, in Japan,
225
Bunsen, Christian C. J., 176
Burton, Richard, 123, 131
C a m il l u s , 2 2 , 172W.
Campbell, Captain, 215
Canon. See Kwai-yin
Canopus, 271
Catholic Encyclopedia, 212
Catlin, Geo., 73, 118, 120
Cato the Younger, 166
Caylus, 27
Centeotlc. See Cinteotl
Central Borneo, 107
Ceres, 160, 196, 271
Ccridwcn, 271
Ceylon, phallic worship in, 123
Chambers’ Encyclopedia, vii
Chemosh, 20, 141, 271
China, phallic worship in, 221 et
seq.
Chloris, 271
Christianity and phallicism, 255
et seq.
Chronos. 173, 271
Chrysostum. 26
Cihuacohuatl, 81, 271
Cinteotl,38, 271
Circumcision as a form of sacri­
fice. 131, 134
Circumcision, female, 132
Circumcision, origin of, 129. 130
Circumcision, phallic aspects of,
129
Clement of Alexandria, 112, 158,
160, 170
Cock, phallic significance of, 262
Coke, I^ord. 100
Confucius, 221
Cornish, Dr., 84
Costa Rica, phallic worship in,
123
Cotytto, 160, 271
Cow, worship of the, 175
Cox, G. W., 79
Crishna. S ee Krishna
Cromcruach, 271
Cronus, 24
INDEX
Cross, a monogram of Christ, 260
Cross, a symbol of the sun. 259
Cross as a phallic symbol, 258
et seq.
Crozius, 260
Crux ansata, 259, 260
Crux Hermis, 259
Cunti, 188, 271
Cybele, 16, 196, 272
Cyprian, 26
D acon, 31, 32, 272
Dahomey, phallic worship in,
123. 124
Daily Telegraph, 236
Danae, 24, 272
Davenport, John, 153, 245, 247
Davis, 52
de Acosta, Joseph, 52
de Bourbourg, Abb<$ Brasseur,
121, 124
Defloration, artificial, 58
Defloration as a phallic rite, 58,
Decoration, evil connected with,
98
Defloration, natural, 60
Defloration, religious, 6t, 62, 63
de Gebelin, Count, 245
Demeter, 168, 222, 272
Demonrltus, 96
Demoniac possession as a cause
of disease, 96, 97
Demons, intercourse with, n t
el sea.
Demosthenes, 96
Devaki, 24, 272
Devi, 272
Devil-worship, 93 et seq.
Dew, 82, 272
Diana, 16, 272
Diodorus Siculus, 29, 32, 172,173,
»7«. '93
Die Bootes, 230
Diegesis, The, 21
Digxtus infamis, 108
Dinarchus, 96
Dionysia, 107
Dionysus, 20, 44, 81, 131, 14m.,
158, 168, 173, 272
Dis, 95, 272
Discourse on the Worship of
Priapus, A, 239, 259
Disney, John, 149
Dodwcll, Edward, 104
Dresser, C., 229
Dubois, AbbC*, 211
Dudley, John, 30, 70
Duff, Dr., 208, 214
Dulaurc, Jacqucs-Antoinc, 60,
123, 262
Durga-Kali, 188, 213, 272
Dyans as a sky-god, 23, 272
E a, 272
Egg, phallic significance of the,
263
Egypt, phallic worship in, 171 et
seq.
Egyptians as sun-worshippers, 22
El, 272
El Belus, 20, 272
Elcphanta, phallic pagoda of,
203, 204
Elcusis, mysteries of, 135, 168,
169, 170
Elworthy, F. T., 107
Empedocles, 96
Encyclopxdia Biblica, vii, 15,
148
Encyclopaedia Britannica, vim.
Encyclopxdia of Religion and
Ethics, x
England, phallic worship in, 232
et seq.
Epiphanius, 83
Erccthonios. See Erecthonius
Erichthonius, 81, 168, 272
Essay on the Worship of the
Generative Powers during the
Middle Ages of Europe, An,
tot. 239
Eswara, 198, 272
Eusebius, 80, 181
Evil eye, Shelah-na-Gigs as pro­
tecting charms against, 241
Evil eye, theory of the, 102 et
seq.
Ezekiel, 20
Ezekiel, vision of, 50
Faunus. See Pan
Fascinum. See Amulet, phallic
291
29- INDEX
Fascinus, 107
Fergusson, James, 92
Fertility charms, phallic amulets
as, 60
Fertility gods, sacrifices to Hindu,
211
Fertility rites, sacrifice of a
horse at, 216
Fertility rites, worship of phalli
in connexion with, 245, 246,
247
Fetishes, phallic idols as, 122
Fire-worship, 27, 181
Firmicus, 34
Fish-worship, 31
Flora, 68, 272
FIoralia, 166
Forlong, Major-General J. G. R.,
88, 207, 223, 228
France, phallic worship in, 245,
346* 347
Frazer, Sir J. G., 69, 114M.
Frea. See Frigga
Frey, 273
Frigga, 24, 196, 273
G aea, 24, 50, 273
Gardner, James, 161
Garrett, John, 216
Gc. See Ghe
G em a ra S a n h e d r im » 135
Genitalia, worship of the, 46
Ghe, 24, 273
Giagannat, worship of, 212
Goat-worship, 29
Gods, ambivalence of the, 49 ct
seq.
Gods, creation of the, 3 et seq.
Goldzhier, I., 15, 21, 22
Gopalsami, worship of, 213
Corius, 45
Gotama. See Buddha
Greece, phallic worship in, 151
et seq.
Griffis, w . E., 231
Gynxcocracy of Antiquity, The,
>5
H amilton, C aptain, 197, 213
Hamilton, Sir William, 248
Hannay, J. B.. vii, 92, 130, 175,
232, 235, 238
Harpocrates, 82, 273
Hartland, E. S., 122
Hca. See Hoa
Hebon. 180, 273
Hecate, 273
Hckate, 16, 273
Helios, 273
Hclius, 273
Hera, 196, 273
Heracles. See Hercules
Hcrcatc, feast of, 16
Hercules, 21. 22, 14m., 146, 273
Hcrmaphrodism as a primitive
concept, 41
Hermnphrodism in connexion
with serpent-worship, 89
Hermes, 22, 81, 82, 89, 151, 157,
*58. 359, 273
Herodotus, 24, 64, 68, 168, 180
Hersc. See Dew
Hcrtha, 160, 273
Hesiod, 96
Higgins, Godfrey, 21, 31, 80. 81,
*35* ,95»-* 254. 259
Hindus, religion of the, 183 et
seq.
Hindu Pantheon, The, viii, 202
Hippocrates, 96
Hirschfcld, Magnus, 220, 231
Hoa, 82, 258, 273
Homer, 27, 96
Horsley, John, 234
Histoire de los Incas, 122
Histone Rcligieuse du Calendrier,
245
History of Torture Throughout
the Ages, The, 12911.
Horseshoe, phallic significance of
the, 1to
Homs, 22, 24
Hu, 273
I a m b m c h u s , 2 6 0
Iarchi, 134
II. See El
Ilat. See Alilat
India, duties of the temple pros­
titutes of, 75
India, phallic gods of, 183 et seq.
| India, sacred prostitution in, 73
et seq.
I Inman, Thomas. 1 4 2 , 1 7 5
INDEX *93
Inquiry info the Symbolical
language of Ancient Art and
Mythology, An, 20711.
Io, 196, 274
Ireland, phallic worship in, 237,
238, 239
Isa, 81, 274
Ishtar, 16, 37. 196, 274
Isis, 16, 17, 24, 56, 82, 171, 175,
196, 274
Isis, legend of, 172
Isis, promiscuity connected with
worship of, 67
Isis, worshipped in form of a
ship, 145
Israelites as sun-worshippers, 20
Isvara, 14m., 181, 274
Iswara. See Isvara
Italy, phallic worship in, 248 et
seq.
Ithyphalloi, 167
Izanagi, 227, 274
Izanami, 227, 274
J a il See Jehovah
Japan, phallic worship in, 226 et
seq.
Japan, sacred books of, 229
Java, phallic worship in, 122
Jehovah, 274
Jesus, 24, 82, 97
Jewish Encyclopaedia, vii, 109
Jewish religion, phallic nature of,
*35
Johnston, H. H., 127
Jones, Sir William, 209
Josephus, 6t, 112, 261
Josiah, 21
Journal of the Royal Asiatic
Society, 91
Jove as a sky-god, 23, 24, 274
jugat-Nath. See Juggernaut
juggernaut, 61, 213, 274
Juggernaut, sacrificial rites con
nected with worship of, 214,
215
Juno, 16, 24, 33, 34, 175, 274
Jupiter, 30, 34, 50, 58, 146, 274
jupiter Ammon. See Ammon
Justyn Martyr, 112
K aem pfer, E., 175, 223, 224, 228
Kali. See Durga-Kali
Kalidasa, 51
Katni-musuri, 227, 274
Kato, Dr. Genchi, 228, 229, 231
Keane, Marcus, 239
Kennedy, Vans, 172, 205, 209
Khem, 176, 274
King, C. W., 259. 263
Kncph, 81, 176, 274
Knight, R. Payne, 26, 31, 47, 49,
*3°» *5®
* l66» «74. 207, 233.
239* 257, 259, 262
Kogoshui, 229
Koloowisi. See Kolowissi
Kolowissi, 82, 274
Konsci-Myojin, 228, 275
Koteswara, 200
Krishna, 22, 24, 259, 275
Kunado, 227
Kuper, Admiral, 230
Kojiki, 229
Kwai-Yin, 222, 223, 224, 275
L a c t a n t iv s , 5 9 , 6 8
Lainga Purana, 191, 205
Language, development of, 4, 5
Lanzoni, R. V., 45
Lao Kiun, 22
Layard, 42
Leeuwenhoek, ipn.
Lenanah, 16
Lewis, Thomas, 134, 137, 138, 140
Liber, 275
Liberalia, 1 6 5
Liguori, 1 1 2
Lingam and serpent-worship, 88,
89, 90
Lingam, types of, 199, 200
Lingam, worship of the, 194 et
seq.
Lingam, worship of, modern, 216,
219, 220
Lingam-Yoni combination, wor­
ship of, 197, 203, 204
lord’s Supper, 169
Lotus as a symbol of androgyn-
ity, 88
tave-feasts, Christian, 257, 258
Lucian, 26. 33, 70, 155, 158
Lucifer. See Satan
Lucina, 16, 275
Lui-shin, 275
Luther, Martin, 112, 113
294 INDEX
So. 176
Robin
176,
M a a c h a h , 3 6
M’Clatchcy, 221
Macrobius, 20, 21, 4 3 , 44,
Mad Merry Prank of
Goodfellow, The, 101
Mallei, 159
Mahadcva, 28, 14m., 197, 275
Maharaj libel case, 217, 218
Maimonides, 42, 44
Mandrake, phallic significance of
the, 37
Mani, 16, 275
Mankind, androgynous origin of,
41 et seq.
Marduk, 22, 275
Mars, worship of, 14, 42, 275
Martial, 262
Martin, M., 234
Mary, 24, 97
Maut, 176
Mayo, Katherine, 219
Mefampus, 168
Mendcs, worship of, 29, 275
Mercurius. See Mercury
Mercury, 31, 82, 95, 151
Mercury, worship of, 14
Meriani, 196
Milcom, 36, 275
Milkom. See Milcom
Min, 176, 275
Minerva, 30
Mithra, 196
Mitoshi-no-Kami, 275
Mitra, Rdjcndraldla, 215
Mnevis, 275
Moabites as sun-worshippers, 22
Moloch, 141, 180, 275
Monicr-Williams, Sir, 89
Mont. See Mendes
Moon, sacrifices to, 16
Moon-worship, 14, 15
Moon-worship in ancient
18
Moon-worship, references to, in
Old Testament, 16, 17
Moor, Edward, 202
Morang Bura, 187
Moses, 20, 36, 139
Mother India, 217
Munro, Niel Gordon, 230
Murray, Miss M. A „ tot
Egypt.
Museum Britannicum, 254
Mut, 275
Mutinus, 275
Mutimis, sacrifices of virginity to,
59
Mutinus. scandalous nature of
worship of, 159
Mvlitta, 180, 196, 275
Mylitta, cult of, 64 et seq.
Natural History of Selborne, 234
Neptune, 276
New Schaff-Hcrzog Encyclopedia
of Religious Knowledge, vii,
231
Nicaragua, phallic worship in,
124
Ntcuwenhuis, 107
Nihongi, 220
Nut, 24, 276
O a n n e s , 3 2 , 2 7 6
Oath, phallic, 147 et seq.
Oath, phallic, among tnc Arabs.
>50
Oath, phallic, mentioned in the
Bible, 148
Oath, phallic, used in ancient
Wales, 149
Objects, personification of. it, 13
Obscene figures in ancient Irish
churches, 239, 240, 241
Obscene images as charms, 108
Obscene paintings in India, 91,
213, 215
Obscene temple statues, 212
Obscenity, emergence of, 264 et
seq.
Ocean of Story, The, 91
Odin, 276
Odin as a sky-god, 2 3 , 2 4
Oliver, George, 145
Ophion, 82
Ops, 82, 276
Origcn, 97
Origenes, v
Origines Hebrsex, 109
Ormuzd, 80, 276
Osborn, 43ft.
Osiris, 22, 23, 24, 26, 61, 86, 130,
141M., 149, 172, 176, 180, 259,
276
INDEX
Ouranus as a sky-god, 23, 24, 276
Ovid, 155, 207n.
Owen, Charles, 29, 30, 65
P a l a c io , 131
Pales, 82, 276
Pallas, 276
Pan, 176, 276
Pausanius, 81
Paris, Matthew, in
Parvati, 44, 188, 195, 197, 200,
276
Pegasus, 152
Pelops, 82, 276
Persephone. See Proserpine
Perseus, 24, 276
Persians as sun-worshippers, 22
Personification, part played in
the evolution of religion by,
8 el seq.
Pertunda, 276
Petronius, 56, 178
Phalli, artificial, 178
Phalli, artificial, mentioned in
the Bible, 178
Phalli carried in processions. 166,
*74
Phallic amulets, indecent, 231
Phallic cakes, 170, 262
Phallic feasts of the early Chris­
tians, 255 et seq.
Phallic gods of the ancient
Greeks and Romans, 156 et
seq.
Phallic emblems, Christian, 258,
259, 260, 261, 262, 263
Phallic emblems, Japanese, 229
Phallic emblems, nature of
Hindu, 198 et seq.
Phallic emblems used in France
and Italy in eighteenth cen­
tury, 254
Phallic figures in Irish churches,
230, 240, 241
Phallic images, obscene, 108, 126,
198, 215, 216
Phallic oath, 147 et seq.
Phallic processions and festivals,
160 et seq.
Phallic processions and festivals,
sacrifices connected with, 177
Phallic rites, obscene, 212, 213
Phallic worship among primitive
and savage tribes to-day, 128
Phallic worship, ancient Greek
sculpture as evidence of, 158
Phallic worship at the Fete of St.
Cosmo and Damiano, 248 et
seq.
Phallic worship, development of,
176 et seq.
Phallic worship in Australia, 124.
**5
Phallic worship in Ceylon, 123
Phallic worship in Costa Rica,
124
Phallic worship in Java, 122, 127
Phallic worship in Nicaragua,
124
Phallic worship in N. America,
120, 121
Phallic worship in Peru, 127
Phallic worship in Western
Africa, 128
Phallic worship in Yucatan, 126
Phallic worship, use of bells in
connexion with, 207
Phallic worship, venereal disease
as a cause or, 56
Phallicism among savage races,
1 1 7 et seq.
Phallicism and serpent-worship,
92
Phallicism and sun-worship, 23
Phallicism and the evil eye, 102
et seq.
Phallicism, birth of, 40 et seq.
Phallicism, connexion of Indian
temple prostitution with. 76
Phallicism, Hindu, 183 et seq.
Phallicism in ancient Greece and
Rome, 151 et seq.
Phallicism in China, 221 et seq.
Phallicism in Dahomey, 123, 124
Phallicism in Egypt, 171 et seq.
Phallicism in England, 232, 233.
234. 236
Phallicism in France, 245, 246,
Phallicism in Ireland, 237, 238,
*39
Phallicism in Italy, 248 et seq.
Phallicism in Japan, 226 et seq.
INDEX
Phallicism in Japan, attempt* to
suppress. 230, 231
Phallicism in Japan secretly
practised, 231
Phallicism in relation to Chris­
tianity, 255 et seq.
Phallicism in Scotland, 234, 235
Phallicism in the Bible, 133 et
seq.
Phallicism, initiatory rites in re­
lation to, 128 et seq.
Phallicism, modern, 216 et seq.
Phallicism, origin of, 187 et
seq.
Phallicism, rites of, 205 ct seq.
Phallicism, symbolical nature of,
208, 209
Phallicism, relation of witchcraft
to, 93 et seq.
Phallicism, taboo in connexion
with discussion of, vii et seq.
Phallicism in Japan, ix
Phaltophoroi, 160
Phallus as a means of protection
against evil, 104 et seq.
Phallus, erection of first, 193
Phanes, 43, 276
Philo, 43, 112
Philochorus, 42
Phoebus. Sec Apollo
Phtha, 43, 277
Picart, B., 225
Piedrahita, it
Pillar-worship. See Stone-wor­
ship
Plague of Lust, The, 153*1.
Planets, worship of the, 14
Plant-worship, 38, 39
Plato, 20, 43, 96, 112
Pliny, 105, 107, 157
Plot, Robert, 235
Plutarch, 17, 23, 25, 31, 36, 86,
96, ii2n., 130, 168, 171, 180,
260
Pluto, 20, 277
Poeson, Captain, 199
Pollux, 107
Polyymnus, 158
Pope Innocent VIII, 112
Poseidon, 277
Priapeia, 56, 15m.
Priapus, 61, 134, 277
2 9 6
Priapus, character of images of,
*54. *55
Priapus, festivals of, 36
Priapus, reputation for healing
of, 56
Priapus, sacrifices to, 155
Priapus, worship of, 151 et seq.
Priapus, worship of, in Contin­
ental Europe, 244 et seq.
Priestley, Joseph, 29
Principles of Tantra, 199
Promiscuity among the ancient
Persians, 67, 68
Promiscuity among Hindu phal­
lic worshippers, 211, 214, 215
Promiscuity among Pueblo In­
dians, 126
Proserpine, 277
Prostitution, religious, 64 et seq.
Prostitution, religious, among
North American Indians, 66
Prostitution, religious, connexion
with phallic festivals, 166
Prostitution, religious, in Baby­
lonia, 65
Prostitution, religious, in India,
73 ft seq.
Prostitution, religious, in Japan,
228
Prostitution, religious, in the
Bible, 70, 71
Prostitution, religious, male, 71
et seq.
Prostitution, religious, male,
among North American In­
dians, 73
Prostitution, religious, male, con­
demnation of, in Bible, 72
Prostitution, religious, male, in
Dahomey, 73
Prostitution, religious, origin of,
60, 70
Ptan. See Phtha
Puberty, phallic symbols in
Christianity, 258 et seq.
Puberty, religious rites peculiar
to, 128 et seq.
Punchanunu, 187, 277
Puranas, 183, 201, 207, 209
Pythagorus, 45, 96
Python, 95, 277
INDEX 297
Q u a n w o n . See Kwai-Yin
Quetzalcoatl, 22, 277
Ra, 45, 277
Reade, Winwood, 131
Reality versus illusion, 6, 7
Reason, genesis of, 3 el seq.
Reed, Sir E., 222
Reid, Dr., x
Religion, development of, 8 el
seq.
Religion, difficulty in defining,
11
Religion, origin of, 3 et seq.
Religion, part played by personi­
fication in evolution of, 8 et
seq.
Religions of the World, 4371.
Rhea, 196, 277
Rig-Vdda, 183
Rivers of Life, viii, 20711.
Rivett-Carnac, J. H., 91
Roden, Earl of, 238
Rome, phallic worship in, 159
et seq.
Roscoe, 57
Rosenbaum, Julius, 56, 61, 67, 71,
153
Rougcmont, 227
Rout, Mrs., 128
Rudra. See Siva
Sacrifice, its connexion wiih
Holy Communion, 48
Sake No Kami, 227, 277
St. Augustine, 58, 68, 70, 97, 112,
257
St. Ambrose, 97
St. Bernard. 97
St. Chrysostom, 169
St. Cyprian, 112
St. Gregorios, 169
St. Isiodore, 112
St. Jerome, 112, 134
St. Paul, 112
St. Thomas, 112
Sakti, 188, 201
Sakti, worshippers of, 195
Saktism in modern India, 218,
219
Salivihana, 22, 277
Sama Veda, 34, 183
Samson as a sun-god, 21
Sara, 196
Sarasvati, 188, 277
Saraswati. See Sarasvati
Saruta, 227
Satan, 277
Satan, origin of idea of, 93
Saturn, 277
Saturn, worship of, 14
Satya Prakash (Light of Truth),
ai7
Satyrtcon, 178
Schaufus, 153
Scipio the Elder, 113
Scotland, phallic worship in, 234,
23s
Scott, Adam, ato
Scott’s Encyclopxdia of Sex,
32n., io8n.
Seabrook, W. B., 128
Seb, 24, 278
Self-fertilization as an explana­
tion of origin of life, 45
Scllon, Edward, 144
Scmcle, 24. 278
Serpent as a god of evil, 85, 86
Serpent as an erotic symbol, 87
et seq.
Serpent in Hindu mythology, 89
Serpent-mound in Adams Co.,
Ohio, 82
Serpent-worship, connexion of
Jesus Christ with, 83, 84
Serpent-worship in India, 84, 85,
88.89
Serpent-worship in North Amer­
ica, 82
Serpent-worship mentioned in
Bible, 83
Serpent-worship, origin of, 79 et
seq.
Serpent-worship, universality of,
80
Sex and Sex Worship, 37
Sex, connexion of religion with.
53 et seq.
Sex-worship, origin of, 47, 48
Sexual congress, performed pub­
licly, 125
Sexual congress, reproductions
of. 122, 123, 160
2 Q $ INDEX
Sexual licence at Eucharistic
festivals, 257
Sexual licence at Creek festivals,
167
Sexual licence at Roman Bac­
chanalia, i6t, 166
Sexual licence in connexion with
worship of Siva, 213, 214
Sexual mutilation, phallic origin
of, 131
Sexual perversions practised at
phallic festivals, 167
Sexual promiscuity, phallic fac­
tor in, 58 et seq.
Shala, 24, 278
Shang'tc, 222, 223, 278
Shaw, Thomas, 29
Shclah-tia-Gigs, 239, 240, 241,
242, 243
Sherring, M. A., 199
Siting-moo, 222, 278
Shinto cult of Japan, 226, 227
Shinto cult of Japan, sexual
orgies connected with, 229
Shiva. See Siva
Shiva Puratia, 189
Siam, phallic worship in, 220
Sidltant Rasya, 217
Simpson, H. T., 233
Sistrum, 175, 207*1., 223
Siva, 44, 51, 61, 82. 90, 14m.,
183, 186, 199, 200, 203, 219,
259, 278
Skoptzis, v, 178
Sky-worship, 23 et seq.
Socrates, 99
Solomon, 21, 136
Solomon as a phallic worshipper,
&
Sri, 278
sry, 95
Stephens, J. L., 123, 126
Stones, holed, for cure of disease,
Stones, holed, in Cornwall. 234
Stones, holed, in India, 203
Stones, holed, in Ireland. 243
Stones holed, used in seeking re­
generation, 244
Stone-worship, by ancient Peru­
vians, 122 I
Stone-worship condemned by !
Moses, 139
Stone-worship, denunciation of,
244
Stone-worship in England, 232,
233
Stone-worship in India to-day,
220
Stone-worship in Ireland, 238,239
Stone-worship in Japan for cure
of disease, 231
Stone-worship in Scotland, 234,
*35
Stone-worship, references in
Bible to, 136 et seq.
Strabo, 58, 64, 65, 70, 130, 146,
176, 180
Sun, deification of the, 20, 22
Sun, sacrifices to the, 23
Sun-god as Saviour, 24
Sun-worship, references to, in
Bible, 19, 21
Sun-worship, rise of, 18
Symbols, animation of, 25 et seq.
Svnccllus, 22
T a k a - m i - M u s u b i , 227, 278
Talmud, 43, 112
Tammuz. See Adonis
Tau, phallic significance of the
letter, 2^9
Tawncy, C. H., 69
Taylor, Robert, 21, 169
“ Temple of Ten Thousand
Idols,” 224
Tennessee, phallicism in, 120,
121
Tertullian, 26, 83, 97, 112, 170,
260
Tcxcatlipoca, 278
Tcxcatlipoca as a sky-god, 23
Thcodorct, 170
Thesmophoria, 168
Thevenot, Dr., 174, 177
Thompson, P. A., 220
Thoth, 81, 82, 278
Thurston, Edgar, 77, 98
Titus Livius, 161
Tlazoltcotl, 126, 278
Tod, Lieutenant-Colonel James,
200
Tortoise, phallic significance of,
3 *
/
' /
/
INDEX 299
Transvestism in religious rites, 44
Travels into the Levant, 177
Tree and Serpent Worship, 91
Tree-worship among the Israel­
ites, 35
Tree-worship, denunciation of,
244
Tree-worship in India, 35
Tribadism in ancient Greece and
Rome, 178
Triglav, 95, 278
Trimurti, 51, 183
Trinity, Chinese, 52
Trinity, Peruvian, 52
Trinity, phallic origin of the, 51,
5*
Trinity, Scandinavian, 52
Triphallus. See Priapus
Tutinus, 278
Typhon, 82, 86, 130, 172, 278
Tzctzes, John, 23
Uma, 188, 196
Untrodden Fields of Anthro­
pology, 123
Upa-Puranas, 183
Ur, 181, 278
Uranus, 24, 160, 278
Uzume, 227
Vamana Purana, 188
Vedas, 183
Vegetable gods, 34 et seq.
Venette, 160
Venus, 30, 31, 42, 43, 82. 175, 278
Venus, Festival of, 166
Venus, sexual perversions in con­
nexion with worship of. 65
Venus, worship of, 14
Vignoli. Tito, 8
Virag, 44, 278
Virgil, 23
Virgin birth, concept of, 32. 45,
46
Virginity, sacrifice of, 58, 62
Virgins, custom of wearing bells,
wjn.
Virgins, defloration of, 62. 63, 68
Vishnu, 24, 51, 61, 90, 183. 186,
198, 199. 259, 278
Vitziliputzli, 81
Vive#, 58
Vogel, J. Ph., 85
Vul, 278
W ake, C. Staniland, 69, 128, 145
Wall, O. A., 37, 51, 261
Wclt-Gamaeldc-Galleric, 261
Westermarck, W. A., 62, 63
Wcstropp, Hodder M., 59
Witford, Lieutenant, 146, 197, 202
Wilkins, W. J., 219
Wilkinson, J. G., 18
Witch, definition of a, 100
Witchcraft as a religion, too et
seq.
Witches’ Sabbath, phallic rites
associated with, 99 et seq.
Woodroffc, Sir John, 1997*.
World of Wonders, The, 246
X enophanes, 8
Xochiquetzal, 126, 278
Xochitecatl, 126, 279
Xopancalc, 122, 279
Y ahweh, 24, 32, 36, 50, 59, 95.
97* *33* *35* »
36* *55* -79
Yahweh, androgynous nature of,
43
Yahweh, as a sky-god, 23
Yahweh, phallic nature of wor­
ship of, 135, 139
Yahweh, worship of, 14. 22
Yahweh, worshipped as a stone
140. *4 *
Yajur-Vtda, 183
Yang and Yin, 221, 222, 223
Ycrkcs, Professor, 9«.
Yoni, symbols of the, 202, 203
Yoni, worship of the. 196. 201
Yucatan, phallic worship in, 126
Z eus, 24, 158, 279
Zeus as a sky-god, 23, 24
Zeus, dedication of virgins to, 65
Zoroaster, 22, 279
