{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__pearce____text-book_of_astrology_genethliacal_astrology.pdf","mytitle":"Text-book Of Astrology Genethliacal Astrology","mylang":"de"}
No
LIMITED EDITION
o f
BOOK ' ONE
GENETHUACAL ASTROLOGÒ.
THE
T E X T B O O K
o f
A S T R O L O G Y
(Second Edition)
b y
ALFRED JOHN PEARCE
Author of HThe Weather Guide-Book," "The Science of the Stars"
0 © © © ©
"Truth is never refuted."--- Plato
t
;
>
_ »i
..
Because of i
-
t
-
â great value, and the inability of students
to secure copies of this long since "out-of-print" book through
second hand book stores, the National Astrological Library, a
non-profit institution, has prepared a-limited number of this
abridged edition of Mr. Pearce’s monumental v/ork on natal
astrology, that it might be available to students. It is in­
tended to similarly make his works on Mundane Astrology, Astro-
Meteorology, Medical Astrology and Elections available.
THE NATIONAL ASTEOLOGI GAL LIBINARY
i
PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION
FARADAY, one of the most conspicuous examples of that typically
philosophical mind-which Great Britain has produced, uttéred,
towards the close of his life, his well-known warning against
presumptuous judgment' as the besetting intellectual vice of his
time---a vice to which the educated class were almost wholly
given over and from which-professed philosophers were not- exempt.
No science has suffered so severely from presumptuous judg­
ment as Astrologia Sana. The mildest advocacy for an impartial
investigation of it is held to be evidence of a mental obliquity,
notwithstanding the fact that -for âgés it commanded thé enlight­
ened belief of the most learned and the most highly gifted of
mankind. ■
■
The religious world may believe,with Professor Smyth and the
Abbe Moigno, that astronomy began 2170 B.C. , and that the first
astronomers were instructed superhaturally; but this involves the
belief that a knowledge of astrology was also revealed to man as
Josephus averred, for astronomy and astrology were originally one
and the same science. The late astronomer, R. A. Proctor (an
opponent of astrology) declared that "astrology was the nursing
mother of astronomy."
It'is often asked: "Why is it the great majority of learned
men of the nineteenth and the present century have denied that
there is any truth in astrology?" The reply is: "Because they
had never investigated it', being too prejudiced against it-to do
so." The vexed question of the truth of astrology cannot be
solved by a
_ priori arguments. It must be thoroughly and impar­
tially examined before an opinion on its merits or demerits can
be justified. As Bacon said:—
" "All idols must, be abjured and renounced -with firm and solid
resolution, and the understanding must be fi’
eed and cleared of
them,, so that the access to the kingdom of man, which is founded
on the sciences,, may resemble that'to the Kingdom of Heaven,
where no admission is conceded except to children."
It is puerile to say that as orthodox scientists do not
recognise astrology there can be nothing in it worthy of study.
It has been well said that if there were not successive genera­
tions of men the world xvould stand still. No great or learned
man, who had attained the age of forty years, accepted Harvey's
doctrine of the circulation of thé blood, in his day. It was
the great and learned men who despised the persecuted Galileo,
who laughed at Newton, wT
ho could perceive no wisdom in Bacon
and Iocke, who repudiated Linnaeus and Hahnemann,'and would have
strangled m o d e m astronomy, geology, chemistry, magnetism and
homeopathy.
The author entertains the greatest-respect for the learned
astronomers and philosophers of the' present day. At the same
IX
time a protest must be entered against those astronomers
and philosophers who .presume to decide by autoci’
atic auth­
ority so important a question.as that of the truth.of the
most ancient of all sciences, with the merits of•which
they are totally unacquainted. As fox’ the attacks of
purely literary men, however brilliant they may be in
their own department, they are without the pale of natural
science, and are, therefore, incompetent to form an opinion
as to the truth of Astrologia Sana.
Sir David Brewster presumptuously assumed the absurdity
of astrology, instead of investigating it: in fact, in his.
article on the subject in the "Edinburgh Cyclopaedia," there
was neither a single sentence of reasoning nor a single fact
presented in evidence against it; for he simply set up a
phantom of his own for.the amusement of knocking it down,
and thereby only betrayed his-utter ignorance of the subject
and his unreasoning prejudice against it. "These be thy
gods, 0 Israel."
Some materialistic opponents think to crush astrology
with the dictum that "it is opposed to common sense." Before
the science can be tried by this standard, knowledge and just­
ness are essential — for "common sense'! is usually a cloak to
cover a vast amount of common prejudice, without entering into
the logical definition of what common sense is, I may ask such
.self-satisfied critics what is their.common sense? If it is
opposed to scientific sense it is simply common ignorance. -
. .•
"Common sense," about a century since, ridiculed the idea of
travelling at the rate of fifty miles per hour by means of the
locomotive steam engine. The really scientific Dr. Lardner's
"common sense" led him to ridicule the idea of crossing the
Atlantic Ocean in a s.tearn-ship, he pronounced it visionary;
but nevertheless he subsequently availed himself-of a steam­
ship when, he emigrated to America. Sir Humphrey Davy's
"common sense" led him, in the course of his lecture at the
Royal Institution, to compare the project of lighting up towns
with gas conveyed by pipes to that of the Yorkshireman who
proposed to dissipate London fogs by setting up windmills.
Such "common sense," which draws conclusions from a priori
reasoning, is the most fallacious and gratuitous mode of judg­
ing an experimental- science. . . .
The planetary Heavens are the macrocosm and man is the.
microcrosm. .
Astronomers boast that one of the greatest charms of
astronomy is that it enables then to predict eclipses of. the
Sun and Ivloon, etc., exactly, and that their predictions are
accejjted with as little doubt as if they were the records of
past events. .On the other hand, when an astrolqge.r foretells
great earthquakes, destructive storms, floods, droughts,
scarcity or plenty, etc., in regions through which the line of ’
central eclipse (of the Sun) passes, coinciding, or nearly so,
Ill
with, the maximum of planetary action, his prediction when ful­
filled is most unfairly stigmatised as a mere "lucky hit." In
both cases, the predictions of the astronomer and the astrologer
are based upon astronomical phenomena and computations: the
reason why the forecasts of the former are lauded as the achieve­
ments of true science, and those of the astrologer are branded
as "pseudo-science," or even as "imposture," is, in fairness, -
impossible to comprehend. It is the outburst of sheer prejudice.
Iiany have been the failures of the predictions — especially in
relation to comets — many have been the mistakes of astronomers;
yet, because they can predict the moment of an eclipse (which the
ancient astrologers could and did accomplish, thousands of years
before Newton, and, moreoverj the return of comets, also), m o d e m
astronomy is held to be an exact science.
Even Sir David Brewster, who ridiculed astrology, yet enthuS'
iastically declared: "The planets and constellations are truly
the only objects in the Universe which all nations have witnessed
and all peoples admired. They presided over the horoscope of our
birth, and they will throw their pale radiance over the green
mounds benea.th which we are destined to lie."
The author trusts that all who love TRUTH for its own sake
will do their best to demand a fair field and no favour for
Astrologia Sana, and aid in circulating this work. No study
can be more interesting nor more fascinating, and few can be
more useful. None other can surpass it in leading "from Nature
up to Nature's GOD."
A.J.P.
1
: • •
•
•
■
■ CHAPTER :I • ■ ■
INTRODUCTION-
"It, is a gentle and affectionate thought, ’
That, in immeasurable heights above us,
At our first birth the wreath of love was woven
Pith sparkling stars' for flowers."— r
-
(Schiller's Wallenstein (Coleridge's
. . . ,Translation)
THE histoi*y of Astrology is coeval with that of the earliest,
civilisation. It formed the basis of all ancient religions and
mythology,, and was indissolubly interwoven with, the sacred truths
of the Christian religion..
Godfrey Higgins, the.talented author* of the, "Anacalypsis,"
and.an opponent of astrology, stated'that, "Among all the ancient
nations of the world,, the opinion was universal, that the plan­
etary bodies were the disposers of the affairs of men."
.. Simplicius relates.that Calisthenes, who accompanied
Alexander to Babylon, sent to Aristotle from that capital, a
series of astronomical observations, which he had found preserved
there, extending back to a period of .1903 years from Alexander’s
conquest of the city. Snigenes states that these observations
were,.recorded on tablets of, baked clay. They must have, extended,
according to, Simplicius, as far back as 2234 B.C., and would
therefore seem to have been commenced and continued for many
centuries, by the primitive Chald'aen people.. The Chaldaean.
astrologers were highly honoured in Persia, at the court and by
the people, as related by. Plato in one of his dialogues. The
Druids held the astrology of.the ancient Chaldaeans in equal
honour, for it was, in fact,- tlieir religion.
Cicero passed the:following eulogy,-*-,
on the Chasdim: — ,
"Chaldaei cognitions* astrorum sollertiaque ingeniorum ante-
cellunt
. Josephus states that astrology was practised by the ante­
diluvians, who,had it from Adam, who received his information
therepf from. GOD /himself. He further states that Seth having
received instruction in its' principles from Adam, and foreseeing
the flood, engraved the rudiments of the science upon two perma­
nent pillars of stone; and that the remains of those pillars he
(Josephus) himself had seen. He also relates that the science
was taught by Enos and Hoah, who preserved it to the days of
Abraham.
..Eusebius informs us that.Abraham was thoroughly versed in
the Chaldaean astrology.
2
There can be no doubt that the secret religion of the
Chaldaeans was that of "Aur," literally the light, metaphoric­
ally the doctrine from which Abraham was called to worship the
true God alone, and not, as they did, namely, to mix with that
the worship of the Host of Heaven. Abraham had learned the
great secret of the Aurim and Thummiin ■
— which meant the .
’
’
Doctrines and Perfect Laws,” and which has remained to this
day a perfect mystery, inscrutable to the ablest of our phil­
ologists, and the most learned of our divines, owing to their
ignorance of astrology.^
Zoroaster, legislator of the Ilagi, or wise men of Chaldaea,
adopted astrology. He was the originator of magia, or magic,
which, ah first, was a good principle, being the worship of the
Deity.
Aristotle says that the Chaldaean Magi were prior to the
Egyptian priests — who were contemporaneous with Moses.
Manetho, an ancient historian, says that there was a temple
at Heliopolis, dedicated to the Sun, or Mithra, where the Magi
instructed the priests of Isis in the mysteries of their religion;
and that there was one Moses, a priest at this temple, who after­
wards became the leader of a number of enslaved Jews, and from
this it is evident that Hoses was well acquainted with the Chal-
daic philosophy.
Godfrey Higgins says:—
’
’
Though the adoption of the astronomical and astrological
emblems of the Magi and the Egyptians, may be no proof of the
ivLsdom or sagacity of Moses, they are sufficiently clear proofs
of the identity of his religion with the religion of the Magi,
etc., before their corruption. TJhat are we to make of the brazen
serpent set up by Moses in the 'Tilderness, and worshipped by the
Israelites in the time of Hezekiah? ".That of the Cherubim under
the wings of which the God of the Jews dwelt? These Cherubim had
the faces of the beings ‘
which were in the four cardinal points
of the zodiac, when the Bull weis the equinoctial sign, viz., the
ox, the lion, the man and the eagle. These were clearly astro­
logical.
"The secret meaning of all these emblems, and of most parts
of the books of the Pentateuch, of Joshua and Judges (almost the
whole of ‘
which was astrological, that is, magical allegory), was
what in old tines, in part at least, constituted the Jewish
Cabala, and was studiously kept from the knowledge of the vulgar."
Moses vras brought up in the court of Rameses II.
The Rev. John Butler, B.D., maintained:—
"That Moses did particularly understand astrology is apparent
by his predictions of the tribes as to what should betide them for
3
the time to come; for it was not by reyelation, nor dream, nor
vision, that he spake those things., for:
y/hen it was so the
Scripture was wont to.say how it was,so; and no such thing,being
alleged now, it follows that he spake merely of his natural
knowledge, and besides, the phrase savours of mere natural-
prophecy."
The ancients believed that the planets had, under their special
special care, the affairs of men. Philo, was of this opinion, and
even Llaimonides declares that the planets are endued with life,
knowledge, and understanding; that they acknowledge and praise
their Creator. "On this opinion," says Godfrey Higgins,^ "all
judicial astrology, magic, was founded — a science, I believe,
almost as generally held by the ancients as the being of a God
is by the modems."
Phornutus says, "Por the ancients took those for gods whom
they found to move in a certain and regular manner, thinking
them to be the causers of the' changes of the air and the conser­
vation of the universe.^ These then are gods which are the
disposers and formers of all things."
As to the probable origin of the ancient belief that the
planets were animated•beings, Godfrey Higgins sayst— „
"If a person will place himself in the situation of an early
observer of the heavenly bodies, and consider how they must have
appeared to him in his state of ignorance, he will at once per­
ceive that it was scarcely possible that he could avoid mistaking
them for animated or intelligent beings. To us, with our prejud­
ices of education, it is difficult to form a correct idea of what
his sensations must have been, on his first discovering the five
planets to be different from the other stars, and to possess a
locomotive quality, apparently to him, subject to no rule or order.
But we know what happened; he supposed them animated, and to this
day they are still supposed to.be.so, by the greatest part of the
wo rid.
"Persons are apt to regard with contempt the opinion that the
planetary bodies are animated or rational beings. But let It not
be forgotten that the really great Kepler believed our- globe to be
endowed with living faculties; that it possessed instinct and
volition — an hypothesis which In. Patrin has supported with great
ingenuity. Among those who.believed that the planets were intel­
ligent beings, were Philo ,
- Origen, and llaimonides."®
"There can be no doubt that judicial astrology, or the know­
ledge of future events by the study of the stars, was received
and practised by all the ancient Jews, Persians, and many of the
Christians, particularly the Gnostics and Kanicheans. The-persons
now spoken of thought that the planets were the signs — that is,
gave information of future events, not that they were the causes
of them7— not that the events were controlled by them: for be­
tween these two there is a great difference. Eusebius tells us,
4
on the authority of Eupolemus, that Abraham was an astrologer,
and that he taught the science to the priests of Heliopolis or
On. This was a fact universally admitted by the historians of
the East. Origen was a believer in this science as qualified
above; and U. Beausobre observes, it is thus that he explained
what Jaeob says in the prayer of Joseph: HE HAS READ IN THE
TABLES OF HEAVER ALL THAT M I L HARPER TO YOU, AND TO YOUR
CHILDREN.»
In the Para papers8 we read that:—
"It is in the planetary system one finds the key that un­
locks this great pantheon of granite gods, rends the veil of the
temple that encloses the 'holy of holies’,and reveals many a
sublime truth of which these solemn and silent images have so
long been the misunderstood interpreters."
The first verse of Genesis records that, "In the beginning
God created the heavens and the earth." This should be, "In
the first place God created the planets and the earth." The
words "ath he shemim" import, ath , the original matter, he-
shemim, of the disposers. It is the plural of shem, the dis­
poser or placer. It has been falsely rendered "heaven". In
the 19th Psalm v;e have the same word hesheciim rendered the
"heavens," arid followed by a verb in the plural. "The heavens
declare the glory of God." That the planets were here, also,
signified, is certain, for David says: "There is no speech or
language where their voice is not heard." In the 4th verse of
the same Psalm we read: "In them hath he set a tabernacle for
the Sun." This means among the planets. In the same verse we
are told: "Their line has gone out through all the earth."
What does this mean? Aquila (the astrologer) renders it
"canon" a line or thread spread out at length. It really meant,
therefore, the "thread of destiny," just as the Parcae, or
Destinies, held distaffs, spinning the thread of human life.
Godfrey Higgins says:—
"The word esmim in the Hebrew, and esmin in the Chaldee, do
not mean the heavens or heavenly bodies generally, but the planets
only, the disposers, as Dr. Parkhurst, after the Magi, calls them.
"The conduct of Christian expositors, with respect to the
Hebrew words smim ana rasit, has been as unfair as possible. They
have misrepresented the meaning of them, in order to prevent the
true astrolopical character of the book (of Genesis) from being
seeni But that the first does mean disposers, the word heavens
making nonsense, and the words relating to the stars in the 16th
verse (of the first chapter), showing that they cannot be meant,
put it beyond a question. My reader may, therefore, form a
pretty good judgment how much Parkhurst can be depended upon for
the meaning of the second, from the striking fact that, though
he has filled several columns with observations relating to the
opinions of different expositors, he could not find room for
5
the words, the.
■opinion .of;
H;be Synagogue /is, that the word means
WISDOM-, or the JerusaleiT^Targum ‘
Bays -
i
t
.¡
means -UESDOM, But it
was necessary to CONCEAL Xrom the English=-;
r.eader, as already .
stated, the countenance it gives to judicial astrology, and the
doctrine of Emanations." '
In the 14th verse of the first chapter of Genesis we read
that: "God'said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the.
heaven to divide the day from the night, and let them be for.
signs, and for seasons, and for days and years." The w r d
translated "lights" should have been rendered "instruments of
light;" ana "in the firmament of the heaven," should read "in
the expanse of the heavens." "Let them be for signs," should
be "let them be fox- signs- of the future" — the word is latheth,
and It signifies.sign of the future.^
Adam Clarke, commenting on Genesis XLIX, says,
"It has-been'conjectured that the eleven, stars that bowed
down t o ;
Joseph might possibly refer to the signs of the zodiac,"1
which-v?ere very anciently known in Egypt, and are supposed to
have had their origin in Chaldaea, On this supposition,
Joseph's eleven brethren answered to .eleven of the signs, and
himself to the twelfth;" . ■■ -
General Vallancey, well known for his antiquarian., researches,
has endeavoui’
ed, in his COLLECTANEA HIBEHNICAE,1 to trace out the
analogy between- the twelve signs .of the zodiac and the twelve sons
of Jacob, which Dr. Hales1^ has altered,a little and placed in a
form which it becomes more-generally applicable: — .
.
"1. REUBEN — 'Unstable.(or rather pouring out) as water' —
the sign Aquarius, represented as. a man."pouring out water from an
urn.
2. SIMEON and LEVI — 'The united brethren'— the sign Ganini,
or the twins.
3. JUDAH — 'The strong lion'— the sign Leo, or the Lion.
4. ASHER — 'Ilis bread shall bo fat' — the sign Virgo,
generally represented holding a full.ear of corn.
5. ISSACHAR — 'A sti'ong ass,'„or ox; both used in husbandry
— the sign Taurus,, the bull.
6 and 7. BAN — 'A serpent biting the horse's heel' :
—
Scorpio, or the scorpion, On the Celestial sphere the scorpion
is ..actually represented as biting the heel of the horse of the
archer (Sagittarius), and chelae, 'his claws', originally
»occupied the space of Libra.. . . .
8. JOSEH-I ■
— 'His bow remained in strength' — the sign
6
Sagittarius, the archer, or bowman, usually .represented, oven in
the Asiatic zodiacs, m t h iiifr-bovi-bent, aMcL.the arrow draxwi up
to the head — the how in full strength.' r
*
9. lIAHi-TAII — By a play on his name 'SALEH; the ram, the
sign Aries, according to Rabbins.-^
10. ZEBULON — f
A haven for ships' — denoted by Cancer, the
crab.
14 . ,
f
11. GAD — ’
A :
'troop or array' — reversed Dag, a fish, the
sign-Pisces, the fishes.
12. BENJAMIN — 'A ravening wolf* — Capricornus, which, on
the Egyptian sphere, was represented by a goat, led by Pan,
with a wolf's head."
*
)K . ‘
The Reverend F. Fysh called attention to Deuteronomy
XXXII.,8, "TJhen the Most High divided to the-nations their in­
heritance when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the. bounds..,
of the people according to the number of the children of Israel."
The Septuagint has, "according to the number of the angels of
God." This difference is explained by a reference to Genesis
XXXVII.,9. The twelve signs of the zodiac are plainly referred
to. The meaning appears to be, that however numerous the nations
are, they are under one or other of the twelve signs.
In Deborah's song of triumph we are told that "the stars in
their courses (i.e., exaltations) fought against Sisera." Park-
hurst renders this passage, "The stars from their elevations
fought against Sisera." He then asks, "How so?" and replies,
"By having their influence on the atmosphere supernaturally in­
creased, so as to occasion those heavy rains which swelled the
river Kishon, so as to sweep away the army of Sisera, as men­
tioned in the text." Josephus' account is, that a violent hail­
storm blew in the face of the enemy; this hailstorm was caused
by the electrical state of the atmosphere; and this electrical
state of the atmosphere was caused by planetary influence.
Parkhurst says, "But the modern philosopher will object that
the stars, including the planets, have no natural influence or
efficiency at all in causing rain. I answer, this is certainly
more than he knows. One of the principal causes of rain is an
alteration of the state of the atmosphere." Parkhurst then
quotes Boerhave, "Perhaps,
. als6,.the different aspects of the
planets may contribute to this effect — i.e., of uniting the
primary particles of water, xvhich floated before separately in
the atmosphere — and so occasion.rain, snow, and hail."
Much has been made, by religious opponents of'astrology, of
the injunction of Jeremiah, ".Be not dismayed at the..:signs of
heaven; for the heathen are dismayed at them;" and the,following
passage has also been quoted against astrologers, "Let now the
astrologers, the star-gazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand
up ana save thee" (Isaiah XLVII.,13). But these passages are
7
not in the least condemnatory of astrology as a sinful pursuit.
They merely'pròve that .the heathen were dismayed at the signs-
of the heavens, bêcausè they were'ignorant ;of the true God, and
accordingly worshipped thè planet's as gods in order to propitiate
them. ‘ Althpïigiï',thè ''astrologers could foresee'impending calam­
ities by the .'signs' in the heavens, yet- they-were-powerless to
prevent .their occurrence'. Besides, these very injunctions prove
that'there ARE signs in the heavens*. St . Paul, in his soul­
stirring appeal, delivered on liars' hill at Athens, quoted the
following sentence from the Phenomena (à poem teaching àstio logy)
of Aratus, and yet he did not talee occasion to condemn astrology: —
"for we are.also His offspring." Late in the autumn of 1909, the
excavators of the Berlin Àrchaelògical Society, engaged on the
site of Pergamos, Asia Minor, unearthed the remains of a Temple
of Demeter, which was built about- 262 B.G. A marble altar was
dedicated "To the Unknown God"-; this is said to be- the first
confirmation of the passage in Stv Paul's Areopagus speech.
Jesus Christ's prophecy: "Great earthquakes shall be in
divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights
and great signs shall there be from Heaven; and there shall be
Signs i
'
n the Sun, and in the Inoon, and in the Stars," was
exactly fulfilled at the destruction of -Jerusalem. Josephus
relates that "a comet in the foim of a sword hung over Jerus­
alem for a whole year."
At the birth of our Saviour, his STAR appeared, and by means
of it the Magi, or "wise men," were divinely guided to the place
of His birth;' and they were the first, with the exception of the
shepherds,, to worship him. Even in returning, the wise men (who
were astrologers, as Bishop Porteous proved), were- again divinely
guided, for "they were warned of Gody in a- dream, not to return
to Herod." The three presents which were offered to the infant
Saviour by the wise men, were gold, frankincense, and myrrh;
three things consecrated by the ancients to the Sun, as the his­
tory of the Chaldaeans, Arabs, and all Eastern nations demon­
strates.
In the Bible we are told that, "One star differeth from
another star in glory." 'The pure practice of celestial philo­
sophy in course of time became corrupted into the worship of the
heavens, or Zabaism, and afterwards into idolatry, or the .worship
of the images found to resanble certain qualities of the planets
in honor of which they were instituted.■ At first, men began to
attribute the effects which they perceived were produced -by the
celestial'bodies, to the powers of- those bodies as gods or demons
of'an inferior rank to the great ElRST CAUSÉ, idiose majesty whs
gradually lost sight of to some extent. It has been- doubted by
some writers whether the ancient gods were-named' from-the planets.
This doubt could Only arise in the minds of those persons who have
only examined the writings of the póets of-Greece and Rome. It
is dispelled by .a proper study of the mythology of -the' -ancient-
inhabitants of India, Phoenicia, and' Egypt.
/
8
Bunsen has observed in his work on Egypt, that "Chaer-
emon is said to have stated that the most- ancient Egyptian
dieties are the Planets, the constellations of the zodiac,
and others, with the Decans and Horoscopi. Here we have an
element of pure Egyptian astrology, tinged perhaps with the
zodiacal system, borrowed from, the Greeks, and with a Stoical
coulouring. For the Stoics corrupted the ancient mythology,
if not as radically as the Neo-Platonists, still with a total
want of either poetical feeling or historical sense. Porphyry
describes Chaeremon as 'a lover of truth, a man of accuracy,
and as much respected among the Stoic Philosophers.,M
'Pie Hindu Gods Balarama, Subhadra, Jagannatha, are
(Balarama) "The Sun in his exaltation;" (Subhadra) "the
glorious mover in the circle” — • a title exactly suited to
the moon; and (Jagannatha) "the Living God, the shield or pro­
tector." Buddha means wisdom; the word' has been generally held
to signify the Sun; but the distinction between Chrisna, also
the Sun, and Buddha, has not been well understood. The secret
lies in the character of the planet "ruling" the Sun, or "dis­
posing of him," as astrologers term it, by having the Sun in
his, or her, house. To understand this it must be norne in
mind that each of the planets known to the ancients had, frcm
the earliest foundation of astrology, or the AUR CHLSDIM, one
or more of the twelve zodiacal signs under its special rule.
During the 2,160 years that the vernal equinox was found to be
in the sign Gemini (the day-house of Mercury), the Sun was
named, universally, Buddha, and was worshipped accordingly
under that appellation. Astrology teaches that Mercury rules
the brain. The Indian name of Mercury was Buddha. After
2,160 years from the first period of Buddha, or the Sun in
Gemini, the precession of the equinoxes brought the vernal
equinox into the sign Taurus; and then, as this is the house
of Venus, the Sun partook of her character, and became, in­
stead of Buddha, that female being,known, in Scripture-as the
"Heifer Baal." After another period of 2,160 years the vernal
equinox fell in the sign Aries, the ram; accordingly, the Sun
then became Bal-aram, because in that sign the Sun has his
exaltation or chief power. Porphyry says,-*-® "Hence a place
near to the equinoctial circle was assigned to Mithra, as an
appropriate seat, and on this account he. bears the sword of
Aries, which is a martial sign. He is likewise carried in the
Bull, which is the sign of Venus; for Mithra, as well as the
Bull, is the Demiurgus and Lord of Generation." The Greeks
affixed the horns of the Bull to Bacchus, who was the Sun in
Taurus, or Baal-chus, shortened into Ba-chus, the word "chus"
signifying black, hence the black Baal, To the statue of
Jupiter-1
-
'
'
' they.affixed a ram, because they would distinguish
the two gods. In fact the Sun in these three signs, Gemini,
Taurus and Aries, was found everywhere. la Aries the Sun was
called Chrishna, from which, probably, the Greeks foimed their
Krios, a ram, from the Chaldee, Kress, a throne, or seat of
power; in allusion to the power of the Sun when-in Aries, his
exaltation.-*-® The romantic legend of Salcya Buddha, which has
9
been lately translated from the. C2iinese-Sanscr.it by Hr. Samuel
Beal, contains a mass of striking evidence of the complete
interweaving of astrology with religious tradition, and earthly
sovereignty in the East. The struggle between Buddha (mercury)
and Mara (Mars) is in strict harmony with astrological'prin­
ciples, for Mars is-always at enmity with Mercury; and the
victory achieved by Buddha over' wordly allurements and the. .
"terrific array" of Marafs hosts, is singularly■suggestive of
the triumph of our Saviour over Satan.
A celebrated Persian philosopher lived in the reign of
Darius Hystaspis, whose Persian name was Gushtasp. The "Ancient
Universal History" relates of this personage that "in the reign
of Gushtasp, King of Persia> a celebrated astrologer flourished
whose name was Gjamasp, suriiamed A1 Hakim or tne Wise. The most
credible writers say that he was the brother of King Gushtasp,
and his confidant and chief minister. He is said to have pre­
dicted the coming of the Messiah, and some treatises under his
name are still current in the East." Dr. T. Hyde writing of
this philosopher, cites a passage from a very ancient author,
■who wrote an account of the very famous Persian doctors, as
follows:— -
"Of these the sixth m s Gjamasp, an astrologer, who -was
counsellor to Hystaspis,■ He is the author of a book entitled
"Judicia Gjanaspis," in which is contained his judgment on the
planetary conjunctions. Therein he gave notice that Jesus
should appear; that Mohammed should'be born; that the Magian
religion should be abolished, etc. Nor did any astrologer ever
come up to him."
In China astrology- -was .established at the earliest periods
of its existence as an Empire, and even Emperors were chosen on
account of their astronomical skill. In the year 2515 3.C., this
was the case with Ohueni.
We are informed by Tillotson that a belief in astral influence
was common for some thirteen hundred years before Christ.
In the book of Job we read, "Cans! thou bind the sweet in­
fluences of Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion?"
Hermes, the first great Egyptian astrologer, lived at a.
period anterior to that of Moses. The "Tetrabiblos or Quad­
ripartite, being four books of the Influence of the Stars,"
written by Claudius Ptolemy, about the year 126, appears to
have been chiefly based upon the teachings of- Hermes.
19
Proctor, in his philippic against astrology, was constrain­
ed to admit that "-although astronomers now .reject altogether the
doctrines of judicial astrology, it is impossible for the true
lover of that science to regard astrology altogether with contempt.
Astronomy, indeed, owes much niorp to the notions of believers in
astrology than is commonly supposed."
10
Proctor bears testimony to the fact that Seneca, "who was
well acquainted with the' uniform character of the. planetary
motions, seems to have entertained.no doubt respecting their
influence." • ‘
Tacitus, he says, "expresses some doubts,- but seeras on the
whole inclined to believe in astrology.-. 'Certainly' he (Tacitus)
says, 'the majority of mankind cannot be'weaned from the opinion
that at the birth of each man fyis future destiny’is fixed; though
some things may fall out differently from the predictions, by the
ignorance of those who profess the art; and that thus the art is
unjustly blamed, confirmed as. it is by noted-examples in all ages.'"
Cicero's argument, "That contagion- can-reach us from the
planets whose distance is almost infinite?" — wa3 quoted by Mr.
Proctor, but he omitted to mention the following observation of
Cicero: "If the office and business of prophecy cannot be per­
formed without the gift of prophecy, yet, notwithstanding that
thè prophet may prophesy falsely, it is sufficient for the
establishment of his prophet power that he shall have.once
prophesied truly. But innumerable■are the examples; therefore
the existence of the powers of divination*^ must be conceded. .
. . . We see it, and hear it, and read of it, and have inherited
it from our forefathers; before the beginning of philosophy —
which is not so long ago — it was not doubted of in common
life; and since philosophy has appeared no philosopher has
thought otherwise — at least none xvorthy of esteem, I have -
spoken of Pythagoras,. Democritus, of Socrates, and others."
If we substitute the words "astrological science" for "prophet
power," in the foregoing-argument, we shall have a complete
answer to those modern philosophers who rail against astrology.
In the common cant of the day, it is said that the Coper-
nician system of astronomy overthrew astrology!'.
Pythagoras anticipated the discoveries of Copernicus., for. he
taught the diurnal revolution of the earth, and its annual motion
around the Sun, which he supposed to be the centre of the plan­
etary system; he did not regard these theories as antagonistic
to judicial astrology, but accepted the prevailing belief, in
his day, that "the stars do rule mankind."
Anaxagoras, who anticipated many of the discoveries made by
means of the telescope, who thought that the Sun was a mass of
fire, and that the Moon contained seas, mountains, and rivers,
was also a believer in astrology. He foreshadowed, as it were,
the molecular theory of our own age, and the infinitesimality
and micrological nature of all motion and all things."
Pliny.and others relate that Anazagoras foretold-the fall
of a meteoric stone, about the second year of the 78th Olympiad,
which occurred near the Hgos, in Thrace. -."It happened," says
Pliny, " in’
sight of raany, in the day time, a comet blazing at
the time, and this stone -was as big as a wain.-would carry, and.
11'
was kept for’a monument.;'
' : ■ ■ ■ • ; - .
.
*
• '
Anaximander, the disciple of Thales (a renowned astrologer),
regarded the planets as unconnected with the earth. He taught
that the fixed stars were Centres--of other systems ,
■ perhaps more
extensiv^ and glorious than our oxm. He considered the Sun as a
body of#fire, and he taught that the earth moved round the centre
of the universe. Pliny relates that he "sfoi’
etold the; earthquakes
that overthrew Lacedaemon." He, too, was a great and renowned
astrologer, a fact which has been concealed by-.Sir David .Brewster,
for fear astrology should gain credit thereby, jL:presume. ■
.
Democritus advanced the very same explanation of the white­
ness of the milky way that‘
Herschel discovered by means of .his
powerful telescopes, which separate-that immense nebula into its
compnent stars; and he maintained', though from an erroneous
theory, that the number of the planet& was not known, .and that,
more would be discovered in succeeding a,ges. This predlction.was
fuilfillea after an interval of more than 2,000;-years. , : .
• * • ■
' " ** V
It is impossible that Pythagoras, AnaximanderAp^xagoras,
and the many other great men of old time who believed .in and.
practised astrology, could have been blind to its falsity, '
i
f
it were a false science as its enemies assert; end it would have
been equally impossible for those ancient philosophers to have
¿foretold events by means of "the signs in the heavens" had
astrology no foundation in fact. Had Anaxagoras, discovered, that
astrology was a delusion fie would not, most assuredly, have
shrunk, from publicly proclaiming such:a discovery, for he- did
not shrink from incurring the penalty of death — afterwards
mitigated into banishment, at the instance of.his friend Peri­
cles — for having promulgated his theories in regard to the
lloon. The ancient philosophers before-named 'ISStlillNED astrology,
and were, therefore, in a far better position judge of its
claims:
tp. scientific truth, than was H.A. Proctor, who proved
himself,,by the.
b l u n d e r h e committed in his tirade against
it,
. completely ignorant of its laws and principles.
• Sudoxus, born 368 was distinguished «for a knowledge, of
astrology, medicine and getometry. He was the first who regulated
the year, among the Greeks.' ' .
. . .
Hippocrates, who deviated much study to astrology and prog­
nostics, declared, that the physician'who was ignorant o f . ;
astrology was not worthy‘
to be called a physician. It is a
.remarkable, fact that’
the* study of prognostics .
’
generally, has
been neglected by the inb'dical profession-since ..astrology fell,
into disuet.ude;..and as' the Medical Press and Circular^ ■oned. •
stated, "some have gone'''so far as to say that the science, of
prognosis has advanced,'little since the'"time of Hippocrates."'
. . . .
Nigidius Bigulus,.. the intimate friend of Cicero, obtained
the hour of birth'of Augustus Caesar,- and declared that the ruler
of the earth was born to the world’
. — as Suetonius relates.
12
The days of the week, and^the hours of each day, nyere
assigned to the seven planets23 (including the Sun and the
Moon). The Egyptians also assigned the months to the planets
in regular order. ^
The Homans dedicated the months as follows:—
December was sacx-ed to Saturn, the Sun being in his house
(Capricornus), and Saturn being at the greatest distance from
the Sun.
January was sacred to Janus, whose double face had its
origin in the fact of the Sun in two successive signs being
ruled by Saturn. It is remarkable that he and Saturn are said
to have governed together in Italy.
February was sacred to Iieptune, by which was meant Jupiter
in his character as a sea-god, for his chariot was drawn by
Hippocampi, which were horses in their foreparts and fishes in
their hinder; thus exemplifying the two houses of Jupiter,
Sagittarius the Archer, drawn with partly the body of the horse,
and Pisces the fishes. Two days in the month, the 1st and 13th,
were sacred to Jupiter.
March was named after Mars, the first day being sacred to
him. The Equiria were games held on the 14.-th day, in honour of
Mars.
April was sacred to Venus, to whom the 1st and 23d days
were dedicated.
May25 was so named from Ivlaia, the Mother of Mercury, whose
birth was said to have occurred on the 15th day. The 14th was
sacred to Mercury, the Sun being in his house, Gemini.
June was named from Juno, who was the same as Diana, or
Luna, the Moon. The first day was sacred to her. The Sun is
then in her house, Cancer.
July was sacred to Jupiter, meaning Jupiter Ammon, being
an Egyptian term for the Sun, the Greater Light being then in
his own house (Leo). The Ludi Appolinares were eigjit days of
festival held in his honour this month.
August was sacred to Ceres, the goddess of corn, who is
dravm with a bunch of wheat in her hand, to represent the sign
Virgo, the house of Mercury. The 13th day was sacred to Vertum-
nus, the god of change — the astrological character of Mercury.
September was under the protection of Vulcan, the husband
of Venus, who wap herself termed Vulaanus; thus Plautus:
"Vulcanus, Sol, Jiuna, Dies, dei quatuor, scellestiorem nullum
illuxere alterum — Venus, the Sun, Moon and Jupiter, four
deities who never shine upon the unfortunate (a very good astro­
logical aphorism). The Sun is this mcmth in the house of Venus
(libra). It is remarkable that the 23th day was sacred to Venus
and Saturn, and the 27th to Venus the mother. Saturn has dig­
nities in Libra, which is the sign of his exaltation.
October was under the protection of Mars, in whose honour
the Armilustrium festival and sacrifices took place on the 19th
day, when the Raaans assembled their axmy. The Sun is this
month in the house of Mars, Scorpio.
November was under the protection of Diana, goddess of
13
hunting; the 14th day was. set apart for the trial of. horses,
Lectisternia festival was held, also the Neptunalia games, all
of these -being allusions to Jupiter, and the sign of .the
Archer. ( which is his house. :On the first day a solemn
banquet, in honour of Jupiter, took place.. These observances
had relation to the Sun's passage.this month through Sagittarius,
the house of Jupiter.
• The Greeks and Remans perverted the Clialdaean astrology into
a mere system of divination, and rendered it almost entirely unfit
for any genethliacal purpose. The Arabian astrology is a most
superstitious mass of symbolical and allegorical trash — as
Wilson averred. The mean, crafty, and selfish policy of the
Egyptians, who, in order to keep the people ignorant of the grand
truths of astrology, converted all their knowledge and observa­
tion into hieroglyphics, or transcribed it in the so-called
"sacred letters" which belonged .to an alphabet made use of by the
priesthood only, the key of -which once being lost all their-learn­
ing was- lost with it — this selfish policy contributed to cause
astrology to be mixed up-with many absurdities, and its original
meaning to be almost entirely forgotten.
— 0O0--
H00 QUOTES
1. Cicbro de Div. I., 41.
2. See Zadkiel's Almanac, I860, pp.62-71; also the Anacalupsis,
by Godfrey Higgins, Book II, Chaps. 1 -and. 2.
.
5
. See a picture of them in' Parkhurst's Eeb, Lex.
4. .Anacalupsis, Book I, Ghap.I.
5. Godfrey Higgns adds,. "And this is the meaning of. Genesis . .
which is as visible as. the noon-rday sun in every part of the Old
and New Testament."
6. Eaber, Pag. Idol., Vol. I, p.32.
'7. "It is not meant to say that, at a very early period, the
planets were not believed to be the active agents of a superior
power; they probably were." — Note by Higgins.
8... Page 100; Paris, 6, Rue Montpensier, Palais Royal.. ..
9. See Zadkiel's Almanac, 187.1, pp. 44-7.
10. The number of the apostles also corresponds to that of the
signs of the zodiac.
.11. Vol. VI, .part 2, page 343.
12. Analysis, Vol. II, p.165. ...
13. See Buxtorf's Rab. Lex.
14. The name- of GAD signified the planet Jupiter. Pisces is
Jupiter's "night-house." The-literal translation of Genesis X X X ,
12 and 13, is, "And bare Zilpaii, servant to Leah, to Jacob, a son;
and,said Leah 'cometh Gad,' and she called the name of him Gad."
The:
authorised.translation has it " a troop cometh "; but the
word Gad is in the Vulgate translation. Aberbanel expounds this
passage without any scruple, "This Gad is the star Jupiter."
15. Zadkiel's Almanac for 1869, page 49
14' A ■A '
•
16. "Cave'of the Nymphs," S e c t i i .■ page ±90:
, ed. Taylor.
17. "Thorwaldsen one day diningwith:Bunsen at Home, and
becoming wearied of the theological1conversation of his host,,
threw open the window, which commarided a noble prorpéct of the
city, over which the planet Jupiter,was shining with great
splendour, and filled his glass 'to the honour of the ancient
gods."' — Fraser's Lag. Nov. 1875.
18. See Zadklel's Almanac 1868, pp. 62-71.
19. Vide "Belgravia" for November and December1
, 1876,
20. : The first men who 1
reasoned of the stars were the first
divines. In all nations'Which have;emerged from-barbarism the (
•divines or priests have1ever been astrologers; -Hence Claudius
Ptolemy was called "the divine Ptolemy."
21. One of the erros Consisted of Mr. Proctor's statement that
"Jupiter occupied the house of •wealth" -- which Is the-1
second
house, at the birth of II.H.Hi' the Prince of Dales, whereas that
planet was rising at the moment (10:48 a.m., November 9, 1841),
given in the official bulletin. (Ed.‘
Note:--This was'King
■Edward VII of England.1) Another' error consisted’of'Mr. Proctor’s
statement that the Sun was in the sign Cancer at the Prince's
birth, when, in fact, as every schoolboy knows, the Sun is in
Scorpio during the first tvrenty-one days of November. These
errors, although they were pointed oiit in 'Zadkiel's Almanac 'for
1878, are to be found reproduced in the reprint of I
.
i
r
. Proc- •
tor's paper on Astrology in his book entitled Myths and Marvels
of Modern Astronomy. ' ' ‘
22. "The Prognosis of Disease" (leading article), Nov. 7,'1877.
Hippocrates predicted the advent of plague at Athens, and it is
related that when it broke out in Greece, hé dispelled it by
"purifying the air with fires into which were thrown 1
sweet
scented herbs and flowers, along with othei* perfumes."
23. Vide Zadkiel's Almanac for 1876, pp. 57-62. In the
Contemporary Review, March, 1875, Mr. R.A. Proctor wrote on
"Saturn and the Sabbath of the Jews," to show that the Oriental
belief that Saturn's day (Saturday) was unfortunate, dies in-
faustus, when it was unlucky to undertake any work, was the
origin of the Sabbath1Of the Jews. "The obseiwanee was derived
from an Egyptian, and primarily from a Chaldean source.-"'
24. Godfrey Higgins says : "Throughout all the nations of the
ancient world the planets are to be found appropriated to the days
of the week." (Anacalypsis, Vq I. I, page 6.
25. "The worship of the equinoctial Sun in the sign Taurus, the
remains of which are to be found in our Iviay-day festivals, carries
it back at least for 4,500 years before Christ.’
" (Anacalypsis,
Vol. I , page 9.)
15
CHAPTER i ! ........
INTRODUCTION — Continued.
;
. , "Thence oblique
■• firancheth the circle where the planets-.roll,
To pour their wished influence on the world."--Dante
Among m o d e m votaries of astrology we find on record the
honoured names of Bacon (Lord Verulam), Roger Bacon, Baron itapier
of Kerch!stoun (the inventor of (logarithms),
. Flamsteed (the. first
Astronomer Royal, and founder of Greenwich Observatory), Kepier,
Archbishop Usher, Melancthon/’
Sfr Elias Ashmole (founder of the
Ashmolean Museum), Sir Christopher Heydon, Dr. Head, Dr. Partridge,
Dr. Blagrove, Cardan,- PlaciduS.,. Burton, and the Rev. Dr. Butler.
Kepler-
- of whom it;has been.justly, recorded that, "the history
of philosophy affords no more remarkable instance of sincere, un­
compromising love of truth"-
- honestly avowed that^’
. "a most uhfail­
ing experience of the excitement of sublunary natures by the.con­
junctions and aspects of the planets, has instructed and compelled
my unwilling belief."
Flamstead transmitted to posterity a demonstration of his
interest in astrology, in the form of a map of the heavens, drawn
by his own hand, for the moment of the laying of the foundation-
stone of 'Greenwich Observatory. It may be seen among hi§ IBS.,
carefully preserved, at the Royal Observatory. No remarks were
appended to the figure (which is in the form of a square) by
Flamstead, but the following phrase has, been pencilled in the
inner square by some learned-astronomer hostile to astrology, viz.,
"Risum teneatis amici."
The just renown, stability, and usefulness of*the Royal Observ­
atory, have amply vindicated Flamsteed's judgment and foresight.
(Ed. Note: Mr. Pearce presented a'fac--simile of this chart. We can
only produce a copy on the mimeograph which is shown on the following
Page.) ■ ... -
.....
Ramesey's "Rules for Electing Times for all Planner of Works,
collected from writings of the-ancients,: contain the following pre­
cept: . "Endeavour, therefore, at -the beginning of thy work to fortify
'the lord of the ascendant, and cusp of the-ascendant, itself.!1
.
Again, "have a special care that the Moon-be-not with.Saturn, or
dragon's tail, or Saturn in the ascendant or fourth house (of the
heavens), for this will impedite the work arid.cause delays therein;
and if the affliction be by Mars, and the-ascendarit .be a
- sign,of
short ascension, it causeth :
fires therein."
An inspection of the figure shows the benefic planet JUPITER
.rising in his own sign Sagittaiius, the eighteenth degree of which
is placed on the cusp of-the ascendant. On.thé meridian the for­
tunate star Spica Virginis is posited (but not marked in by
\
16
F I Q . I .
i I -r-: ■I
;Flamstead). ¡The Sun mid. Loon are locate!' in the' fixed sign Leo,
.separating from the trine, aspect .of'
Jupiter,' T/hich planet receives,
..also.,, the assistance of the trine' of Venus'. Merchfy’— ;the planet
. having dominion over ..science and art — ' is posited in his own sign
■ Virgo.:, elevated above-the Sun and Loon, .and’"ruling" the ninth house
i
i
i
-
v
. .of the heavens ;
,
(
that of science).' Neither pf the malefic planets
(Lars.and Saturn), is found in an angle. Hence it’is manifest that
Flamstead iollowed the .wise precepts, of the ancients as to "elections",
and no amount of invective can "rail the seal from off the bond." As
Solomon said: "To .everything there i
s
.
, a season, and. a time to every
■.purpose under the heavens.".;
A. passage in .one of Tlamste.ad's .letters .may be quoted with a
17
recommendation to the earnest consideration of tie opponents of
astrology;-- .
"If you would particularly advise your colleague,.. Dr. — ------,
to have a care of discoursing of things he is not acquainted with,
and has only false, imperfect, or prejudiced.- .information of, you
would oblige me much." , .
.
.. ,;
In a paper on "Coincidence' and Superstitions ,*V which was
printed- in the GQSNHILL MAGAZINE (December 1872.), the following-'--
anecdote was related in order to illustrate the prejudiced 'and \ 5
harroxv-minded ideas of the writer thereof:---;
"An old woman came to Flamstoad, the. first Ast.ronoraer-Hoyal,
to ask him-xvhoreabouts a certain .bundle of linen might be xvhich
:she had lost. Flamstead determined, to.show the folly of that
belief, in astrology which had led her to Greenwich Observatory
(under some misapprehension as to the duties;of an Astronomer-
Royal). He ’drew a circle, put a square into.it, and gravely
pointed out a ditch, near her cottage, in which he said it would
be f o u n d . H e then waited-until--she. should come back disappointed,
and in a fit frame of mind to receive the rebuke he intended for
her; but ’she came back in great delight, with the bundle in her
hand, found in the very place!". , .
.
No authority is given for the statement that Tlams.tead in-'
tended to rebuke; the woman’s faith in astrology;•and. the descrip­
tion given of the drawing of the figure of the heavens staiips it
as "an invention of .the enemy;" The plain truth ,
of the matter,
is that Flamstead drew the figure for the moment .of consultation,
and based his judgment and advice upon the rules of horary
astrology» - I n all'-probability the planet, which., was -significator
of the lost bundle of linen -was posited in the'sign Scorpio, which,
in horary questions, as to lost or stolen goods, has always been
held to indicate "a place of unclean water, such as a sink, ditch,
or gutter.” It is .very probable that Flaias.tead,, like Bacon, and
others, believed-not in horax^y astrology. -
The Rev. Dr. Butler examined astrology for. the purpose of
overthrowing it, but in .the course of his studies .became convinced
of its truth, and xvrote a vindication of it. In his Introduction“
^
he says:— -
"Myself must also needs, acknowledge, that some,years since I also
was one of those enemies to the noble science, 'who buffeted in the
dark I 'knew hot what, until sorely tempted to ..take a few lines
reading in this subject, although it was with a serious purpose,
to take up the/after occasion, to tb-roxv. dirt at it; yet by this means
attaining to understand who it was .
1 spoke'!
to,,:
it begat in me a'
reverence to those gray- hairs, which., as unjustly as ignorantly, I
had despised."
Butler's three propositions wore:. ”1. That there IS an
astrology in the Heavens. 2. That this astrology, man (in the
18
state.of, corruption) nay attain in some measure to understand.
3. That this understanding may he lawfully'fcnd fairly compassed
by natural means, without any diabolical helps.” '
•
Bacon wrote; of the state of the 'science in his day as' follows
"Astrology is so full of superstition that scarce anything sound r
can be discovered in it; though we judge it should rather be purged0
than absolutely .rejected. But we receive astrology as a
, part of
physics, without attributing more to it than' reason and- the evidence
of things alloy;,,and strip it of its:superstructure'and conceits.
Thus we banish that ’
an'pty notion about the horary reign.'of the-,
planets, as if each resumed the throne’
thrice in twenty'-ydUr’hours, .
so as to leave three hours supernumerary; and yet this fiction pro­
duced the division of the week, a theory so ancient, and so
universally received. . . . We will add one thing more, which if
amended, and improved, might make for astrology,- via. ,
• that we are
certain the celestial bodies have•other influences besides light
and heat. . . * So that, on the whole, we must register as needed,
an astrology in conformity with these principles, under the name of
ASTRQ10GIA SANA. . . . Let this astrology be used with greater con­
fidence in prediction, but more cautiously in election, and' in both
cases with due moderation.”
It may not be out of place here to mention a recent instance
of planetary iinfluenco confounding the speculations of a philosopher.
In the CQBNHILL MAGAZENÏÏ (July, 1877), in a-paper on "The Planet
of War," by Proctor appeared the following words?’
—
"But if Mars were in truth the Planet of War; if his influence,
poured from near at hand upon the nations of the earth, excited
them to war and bloodshed, we might well fear that the coming
months would bring desolation on many terrestrial fields. More­
over, twice, during his time of greatest splendour his fays will
be closely conjoined with those of the malignant planet Saturn."
At'the time the foregoing paragraph was written , Proctor shared
the belief of the Russian commanders that, .the crusade against Turkey
would be but a military promenade, and would be ended in a few
weeks,. The fearful holocaust of victims to the -unsuccessful-
attempts to'take Plèvna by stona'J
,
(the sacrifice'of life being
greater than any'known‘for centuries past) attested to the power
of Mars and the validity of his right to be called "the Planet
of War." The.war,was foretold by the present editor of ZADKJEL’S
ALMANAC (for 1877)..® 'After the contributor to the CORNHILL-MAG­
AZINE had''exhausted, the whole of his ingenuity and resources for
arguments àgàinst'.the influence of Mars, it'was;an exceedingly1
.cruel, fate .to hâve th'ek scattered to the winds by means of the
very circumstance' to which he appealed as'a test- (Mars’ nearest
approach Since 1798).^, Perhaps the words of Longfellow-('ia his'
poem addressed to the planet Mars) recurred :
to his mind-f—
"0 Star of strength, I see thee.stand,
And'smile upon- my;paint" '
19
Lavater said,- "The true philosopher,looks first to tJaè-jpôsitive
proofs pf•the proposition — ■the",superficial mind ‘
first examines
the negative objections.” Had Proctor4examined firsi the posi­
tive proofs,
of planetary, influence, before writing aga'iirg’
t ■
astrology; he would never have brought, upon himself; a defeat so
signal and: .crushing. .
.
.
Dean Stanley, in his sermon (1878), said:—
."It is a deplorable recoil from progress which either -htow or
formerly: has substituted the barbarian desire for destruction,
for the.civilised desire for reform and improvement. ~Yet still
in all these cases there remains a permanent solution’when èVéh
the failures disappear and the success comes at length'. -The • !
nineteenth.century may close in darkness, but the twentieth
century will d a m in.light. The prophets whom'we stone, bur
sons will honour." Alluding .'to the terrible catastrophe c’
aused
by the capsizing of the. HURT0ICE, during a sudden squall, the
Dean -said:-- '
-
’
-The calamities of this world, so it -would- seem,
come mqt-by accident., but by fixed laws, by à combination of ■
causes which, -on .looking .bhck, seem irresistible."
Opponents of astrology would do well to ponder ovèr<these
words of,-Dean Stanley, 'and examine the proofs of planetary-in­
fluence in .the light of their meaning. It has been frequently
asked by our opponents why Sir Isaac Newton rejected astrology“
?
Newton’s biographer says of him that, "A desire to know whether
there was anything in judicial astrology’first put him upon
studying mathematics. He discovered the emptinéss of that study
as soon.as he erected a,figuré," This, to say the least, was 1
certainly a very sudden discovery; and if he really did no more
than merely erect a figure of the heavens, we can easily underp
stand ho-w and why the great-Newton may be quoted as an opponent
of astrology. This.science is altogether founded on experience;
heppe if any man, however high may be the order of his genius,'
wo;
u-ld. not condescend to give it even a cursory examination, he
could, of course, know nothing of it from his own experiments,
and could not fairly lay claim to a right to deny its truth.
The medical student, who, on inspecting a mere drawing Of -
the human, skeleton, should declare that he had discovered the
iemptiness of the study of medicine, would be justly regarded as
no authority whatever on the subject. We may, therefore, form
the same opinion, of Sir. I. Newton’s alleged discovery of the
emptiness of astrology. He did not examine, therefore he could
not understand, he could not justly condemn — for "ne damnent
quae non intelligunt
It must be noted, too, that at the time of this ipse dixit
of Newton against astrology, he was not twmty-four years old.
As it is known that Sir Isaac did not rashly bring forward any
of his great.discoveries, b u t '
allowed nearly forty years to
elapse from the time of their first conception till their pub­
lication, the fact of his ever having given any such opinion
about the principles of a science which he had not studied, may
be reasonably doubted.
20
Cardan, a qphysician of Milan ,
, b o m in 1501, „who was a very
learned man, and. a celebrated algebraist, w h o ;
gave rules f o f ‘
resolving cubic equations, which still„bear his name, was alsd •
an" astrologer of',high repute. He was sent for to cure the
Archbishop of St. Andrews of a painful disorder which had .
baffled all the physicians of France and Germany; and having ,
succeeded, he returned through London, where he calculated the
nativity of King.Edward. . . . . .
•Didacus.Placidus de. Titus,, .an Italian monk, who published
many elaborate v/orlcs on Mathematics, was a renowned astrologer.
He wrote--the-ERBIUM MOBILE, and gave therein the nativities of
thirty eminent me n of Europe to demonstrate.the truth and '
reality of.astrology,
■ Among the English astrologers we find almost ,every name of
any note in.the mathematical worid, from the days of the.Conquest
down to,-those of .Lord Bacon. To begin with, we find the name of
Oliver of Malmesbury, in .the year 1060, who is the oldest English
writer; on-mathematics. We. next find Herbert, of.Iorraine, 1095.
John of’
Hexham, and Simeén-'of Durham, come next in order, in 1160
and 1164, respectively, vjho wrote of comets; Sigidius of St,
Albans, in 1224, physician to the King of France, and an author
on. astronomy.. Roger Bacon, born in 1214, who was the' friend of
Fi.sacre and Shirewood, both known as mathematicians, and of
Robert -Grouthead, the Bishop of Lincoln. Roger Bacon was the
•most extraordinary man of his day-, and spent the enormous sum,
in those times, of 3=2,000 -(about ^10,000} in experiiiients, instru­
ments, and scarce books .. In his. works he spared neither the
ignorance nor. the want of morality of the clergy, who found,
.consequently,; no .difficulty, in persuading the vulgar that he
was possessed with the devil. In 1256 . died the famous John
of Halifax; his name was really John Holywood, but. he was known
on the continent as Sacrobosco, "His. work on the Sphere was for
centuries almost as. general an object of study as Euclid himself."
It was written from Ptolemy's. AIlvIAGEST, translated into Latin
from Arabic by the order, of the Iknperor Frederick II. Before
Newton, he was one of the.ablest men England ever produced.
Michael Scot, the famous wizard of Scotland, in 1290; Duns
Scotus, in 1304-; William Grizaunt, 1350; Clinton Langley and
John Killingworth, 1360; John Estwood, 1365; John Chylmack,
1390; and King Richard II, in 1392 — who, it is asserted by
Sherbrun wrote "something in Astronomy or Astrology, now (1675)
extant in-his Majesty’s library at St. James's." . The poet,
Geoffrey Chaucer, wrote a treatise on t*he Astrolabe, in 1410.
"’
John WalterV'"'T410, wrote astronomical tables for the purposes
of Astrology; and appears to have been more esteemed than we-
might suppose to have been the case" — sáys a modern Tvriter,
The good Duke of Gloucester (1440) cpmposed .astrological tables
of directions-. Robert Recorde, the ’physician, a man whose
memory deserves much greater fame than has been acoorded to it,
on several accounts; he was .the first who vrrote on arithmetic,
astronomy, and the sphere, in English, the first to introducé
algebra .-into England., and the first Englishman who adopted the
-
.system of Copernicus, Dr., Dee, who professed magic also, by
21
way of showing that this was an exception, and. not the rule with
astrologers; he died in 1572.
Baron Napier, to whom the world is indebted for the inven­
tion of logarithms, and of whom, one of his contemporaries
wrote:— "He was a general scholar, and deeply read in all
divine and human histories," was, also, a great astrologer.
"James Bassantin, a Scotch astronomer, son of the Laird of
Bassantin, in Merse, was bora in the reign of James 17. He was
educated at the University of G-lasglow, travelled through
Germany and Italy, and then fixed his abode in the University
of Paris, where he taught mathematics' with great’
'applause. Hav­
ing acquired some fortune, he returned--to Scotland in 1562, where
he died in 1568.. from his writings he.appears to have been no
contemptible astronomer, considering the-times, but like most of
the mathematicians'of that age, he was addicted to judicial
astrology. Sir James Kelvrl, in his memoirs, says that his
brother Sir Hobert, when he was exerting his abilities' to
reconcile the two Queens, Elizabeth and Mary, met with one
Bassantin, a man learned in 'the high sciences, who told him
that 'all his travel would be in vain, for,' said he, 'they
will never meet together; and next, there will never be any­
thing but dissembling and secret hatred for awhile, and at
length captivity and utter wreck to our Queen-from England .
'
•■
He added'(that the'kingdom of England at length shall fall-of
right to the crown of Scotland; but it shall cost many bloody
-battles, and the Spaniards 'shall be helpers and take- a part
to themselves for their labour.' Sir James Uelvil is an author
of credit, therefore we nay believe that-Bassantin did utter-'
this predict!on
Tycho Brahe not only carefully studied the comet of 1577-
as an astronomer, but as an astrologer predicted, from’
its ■
appearance, that : "In the North, in Finland;- there-should be
born a Prince who should lay waste"Germany, and'vanish in 1632."
Gustâvus'Adolphus, it Is well known, was born in Finland,- over­
ran Germany, and died in 1632.
:
•Poets-, ffom time immemorial, have sung the praises of ■
astrology,, viz., Aratus, AEschylus, Manlius, Virgil, Horace,
Homer, Propertius, Macrobius, Chaucer-, Dante,--Milton, Dryden,
Campbell, Byron, Scott, Schiller, Shakespeare, etc. :
Hoiace 'asked: "Why does one brother like-to lounge in the
for’
m, to play in the campus, and to anoint"himself in the bath
so well, that he. would not put himself out of "the way for all
the wealth of the richest, plantations of'the East; while the'
‘
other toils from sunrise to sunset for thé purpose of increasing
his fortune?" Horace very correctly attributes this diversity
of character to the influence of genius, and the natal star.
Dryden was skilled in astrologyHe''f oreto Id d'anger of
an. accideii+ to his son Charles in his thihtÿ-third year,> Who
was drowned near Windsor, while swimming’
across the'Thames-, '
22
having survived two severe accidents in his eighth and twenty-
third years, both of which accidents his father had also pre-
dieted from his nativity. It is related in the "Life.of .
•
Dryden," that the poet told his wife that their son Charles
was b o m 'in an unlucky hour, because the Sun, Venus, and;
Jupiter were all below the horizony and the ruler of the
ascendant'was afflicted by the;quartile aspect of- both Mars-;
and Saturn.
— 0O0—
^FOOTNOTES t,
-
,
1, : Extract from a work of Kepler’s quoted in OBSERVATIONS ON
THE LIFE;
0F KEPLER,' published by the Society of; Useful Knowledge,
1830.- ' - - ■ '
■ - .
2. ASTROLOGY RESTORED', edit. 1653.
5, Letter of Elamstead Vo "the Rev. Dr. ..Wallis, June 24, 1701
(page 55, Vol. 33, Elamstead M S . ) .
4. **(A Greek work not reprodueable on mimeograph); or-the most
Sacred and Divine Science of Astrology. I. .As6©rted, :
in:three
Propositions, showing the excellency and great benefit thereof,
when it is rightfully understood and religiously observed.: II.
Vindicated,- against’
the calumnies of the Rev, Dr.. More, ; By
John Butler, B.D., A Protestant Minister of the True, Antient,
Cathôlick, and Apostolick Faith o f i h e Church of .England-, London
MCDLXXXiM - .
5. " This waS-dorie’byiZadkiel I as far back as 1830 when he pub­
lished hiS- HERALD'OF ASTROLOGY. Partridge' in his Opus Refona-
atum; published in 1693, exposed the errors., of Cadbury and others.
6. : See pages 19, 21, 23, 25, 27 and 42 of ZADKIEL'S AIMAKAC for
1877; al;
so pages- 11, 39 to 43. o f ZADKIEL’
S AdMANAC for, 1878. The
conjunction of Mars and Jupiter in 0°1’56*' of Capricorn-.(the sign
ruling Bulgaria), which took place on March 1st, 1877, foreshad­
owed the religious crusade entered upon by Russia, against .Turkey
and predicted in that annual.
7. Mars was in PERIGEE on September 7th, 1877; and in exact .'
CONJUNCT!ON (in X 13°45’21,4’' )witb Saturn, at l l h28’20", p.m.
(G.M'.T; ) "of November 3, 1877. ' - .....•
8. Sermon preached in Westminster Abbey,,on Good Friday, 1878,
reported in the DAILY TELEGRAPH of April 20th, 1878. '
9. There is' some reason to believe that there may be-a-work on
astrology in'thé possession of Oxford University, by Newton. .. -
10i See "The Life*of Dr.r'John Dee," by Charlotte: Fell Smith;*:. \
Constable, London, 1909, 103-v6d.' .v / . .
1
.
11. IMPERIAL CYCLOPAEDIA, Vol. I., page 391.
;:
f
23
•
•
•
+
4 •
>
; CHAPTER I I I .
' ' ‘GENETHL I ACAL ASTROLOGY
"In my stars I an above thee i
— Some
Are born great,-sorie achieve,-. greatness, .
And some have greatness.-tilrust. upon them."
■
,
i
Shakes peare'A
Bacon, ?ihose advocacy of an ASTROLOGIA SAHA has been already
alluded to, rejected, what he regarded "as an Idle lignent
namely,, "the doctrine, of horoscopes, and the distribution of
h o u s e s 'though these are the1
.darling inventions of astrology,
which have kept revel, as it were, in the heavens. And lastly,
for the calculation of nativities,■fortunes, good or bad: hours
of business, and the like fatalities,, they are mere levities,
that have little, in them of ■certainty, and solidity,, and.may. be
plainly confuted; by physical reasons." The absurd and mis­
chievous mixing of horary (ox* symbolical) astrology with gen-
ethlialogy on the part of some.-of the English astrologers, of
the middle ages, may•
'
have led Bacon, to the conclusion above
named. Uhen, however, genethliacal astrology is stripped (as
Partridge, and Zadkiel I. and II. stripped it ) of the admixture
referred to, it can no longer be "confuted by physical reasons;"
and, on. the contrary, >
by the:Baconian method of induction, its
truth, can. be demonstrated." .
Sir Francis Galton wisely, observes^:
.."T have no patience with..the hypothesis occasionally expressed
and-’
'.often implied, that babies are born'pretty much alike, and
■that the,sole agencies in creating, differences between boy and
-boy, àiid'nan. and man, are. steady application and-moral effort .
It is in the most unqualified manner that I object to pretendi
sions of. natural, equality. The experiences of the nursery,' the
wchool, the university,'and' thè professional careers, are a-chain
of proof to the contrary. 1 acknowledge freely the- great power
of education and'social influences in developing the active powers
of the mind, just as I acknowledge the effect of use in'developing
the muscles of the blacksmith's arm,' and no. further. The eager
boy when he first goes to school and confronts intellectual
difficulties, is astonished-at his progress; he glories, in his
newly-developed mental grip and growing capacity for application,
and, it may be,- fondly believes it to be within his reach to
become one of the heroes who have left their mark upon the
history of the world. , The years go-by, he competes in the
examinations of the school and college, over and ov.er again
with his fellows, and soon.-finds his place amongst them,. He
knows that he can beat, such and such of his competitors ;
.
.that
there are some with whom he runs on equal terms, and others whose
intellectual feats he cannot even approach."
Galton proceeds, further,, to illustrate .the fact of genius
being innate., .or congenital, instead of hereditary — although-he
does not suspect the true cause:rr-
24
"In statesmanship, generalship, literature, science, poetry,
art, just the same enormous differences are found between man
and man. I am sure that no one who has had the privilege of
mixing in the society of the abler men of any capital, or who
is acquainted with the biographies of the heroes of history, can
doubt the existence of grand human animals; of natures pre­
eminently novle, of individuals born to be kings of men."
Galton relates of the Lord Chancellors, that:—
"Lord Harwicke was the sone of a small attorney at Dover, in
narrow circumstances; Lord Eldon (whose brother xvas the great
Admiralty judge, Lord Stowell), xvas son of a coal-fitter; Lord
Truro xvas son of a sheriff’s officer; and Lord St. Leonards
(like Lord Tenterden, the Chief Justice of Common Pleas), xvas
the son of a barber. Others were sons of clergymen of scanty
means; others have begun life in alien professions, yet notwith­
standing the false start, have easily recovered lost ground in
after life. Lord Erskine xvas first in the navy, and then in
the army, before he became a barrister. Lord Chelmsford was
originally a midshipman. It is a mere accident if a man is
placed in his youth in the profession for which he has the
most special vocation.
To believers in astrology it is curious and interesting to
perceive how closely Galton has reasoned to the true cause of
the similarity of the personal features, characters, and careers
of twins, xvithout ever suspecting it. Astrologers find that
the closer the approximation of the respective moments of birth
of twin-children, the closer is the similarity of their personal
appearance and character, and the closer is the cori’
espondence
of the events of their lives. It is xvell-known to accoxicheurs
that the intervals between the births of twins vary very greatly.
In some cases the interval has not exceeded three or four minutes
while in other cases it has been knoxvn to extend to hours, and
even days. Every four minutes’ interval of time brings another
degree of right ascension on the meridian. Consequently, a
difference of half an hour in the times of birth would make a
great difference in the part of the sign of the zodiac ascending,
and (as one degree of arc represents one year of life in "primary
diiections") would alter the periods of occurrence of the subse­
quent events. The whole sign of Aries only takes (in the lati­
tude of London), about fifty-two minutes in ascending. Hence,
it is evident that a difference of half an hour might give Aries
ascending at the birth of one child, and Taurus at the birth of
the second. In signs of long ascension the difference would not
be so great. In one case Saturn might be culminating or rising,
and in the other might be cadent, xvhich would make a great differ
ence in the chances of life, and prospects and health of the txvo
children. Galton says:--
"The steady and pitiless march of the hidden xveakness of our
constitution, through illness to death, is painfully revealed
by the histories of twins. T
ie are too apt to look upon illness
and death as capricious events, and there are some who ascribe
25
them to the direct effect of supernatural .interference, whereas
the-'fact' of the maladies-of two twins being-continually alike
shows- that illness and death are necessary incidents in a Regu­
lar sequence of constitutional changes beginning at birth, upon
which 'extehiial circumstances have, on the whole, very small,
effect. -In'cases where, the maladies of the twins are contin­
ually alike the clock of life moves regularly on, governed-bv.
internal mechanism. IJhen the hand .-approaches the hour mark,
there is a sudden click, followed by a whirring of wheels; the
moment that it touches it the stroke falls. Necessitarians
may derive nevi arguments from the life history of twins."
Proctor cited, the case of Jacob and.Esau,.
as telling against
astrology, because, being twins, their fortunes "should manifest­
ly have been similar, which was certainly not the case, if their
history has been correctly handed down to us." Taking the
account of the Bible of their births.as correct, a considerable,
interval must have occurred between their respective moments of
birth; so the objection that their fortunes were not similar
cannot be fairly urged against the. doctrine that twins b o m
very near together, in point of time, have similar fortunes,
similar tastes, etc.-^-a fact which Galton's .researches have
incontestably proved.
In the course of-a letter to the TIMS3 of luay 31st, 1910,
Sir Prancis G-alton wisely observed:-
-
"It is now generally admitted that the apparent vacancy of
space is a plenum of ether, that vibrates throughout like a
solid."
Sceptics in regard to astrology are mostly like Proctor, who
declared that he would not inquire whether astrology was true or
not. They hate the very name of astrology, and their object
appears to be not to discover any truth which is distasteful to
them, because of their narrow-minded views and prejudices in­
stilled into them by their teachers who were in the habit of
repeating the parrot-like cry that astrology is an "exploded"
science, notwithstanding that when challenged they cannot say
who exploded it.
As Sir Oliver Lodge recently said: "They should always
mistrust negation, which commonly signified blindness and pre­
judice."
Believers in astrology are often told that public and scien­
tific opinion is against it, but, as llax Muller once wisely ob­
served:— "Vjhat is public opinion to a scholar and lover of truth?"®
The Rev. Dr. Butler says:—
"Some men do come into the world in a lucky hour, so as whether
they be wise or foolish, yet shall they be buoyed upon the wings
of fate, for matter of wealth, or honour, or pleasure, in all
that they take to; while wiser and better men, smitten by an
26
unlucky time of birth, shall be as unworthily disparaged, and
in all purposes shall be as unhappy. Some shall be lucky in
the van of their contrivances, and as unfortunate in the rear;
and others again contrarily. Astrology shows us plainly the
wonderful contrivance of C-od in Nature, that we see it with
our eyes, as it were, written in great and plain characters on
fair paper.
— 0O0—
FOOTNOTES
1. TWELFTH NIGHT, Act II, Scene 4.
2. HEREDITARY GENIUS: AN INQUIRY INTO ITS IANS AND CONSEQUENCES.
By Sir. F. C-alton, F.R.S.
3. This is one of the many instances of what the world loses in
consequence of the neglect of astrologyl for a clover astrologer
can always indicate the occupation for which a person is best
fitted, on inspection of the figure of the neavens for the moment
of birth. Kepler was brought up as a vraitor in a C-en&an public-
house; Ben Jonson was a mason; Lord Clive was a clerk; Inigo Jones
was a carpenter; Turner, the greatest of English landscape painters,
was a barber. Hugh Hiller was a bricklayer; Sir William Harscnel
was educated especially for a musician.
4. THE HISTORY OF TWINS, AS A CRITERION OF THE RELATIVE POWERS 0?
NATURE AND NURTURE, by Francis Galt on', F.R.S.
5. Just as astrologers have ever taught.
6. ■ Or, as tne astrologer xvould say, "when the fatal train of 'arcs
of urimary direction’ comes up."
7. See the article on Twins, etc. (in answer to the criticism of
the REFEREE of July 30th, 1893) in FUTURE, September, 1895.
8. Essay on "The Lesson of Jupiter", in the NINETEENTH CENTURY,
October, 1885, by Professor I-Iax Huller. Commented upon by the
author in STAR LORE, October, 1898.
27
CHAPTER IV .
THE ALPHABET.' v
"Heaven's golden Alphabet-
-
And he that runs may read."
Young.
The Alphabet of Astrology comprises.thirty-two symbols,
representing the Sun’
, Moon, planets, signs of the zodiac, cer­
tain differences '
'
o
f'longitude called aspects, and. the Moon's
' nodes. (Ed. "Note!.Pluto should now be Added making.thirty-three.)
The first division comprises the nine characters:—
o- 'The' Sun 9 .
Venus : ■lì Saturn
D The Moon ■ d 'Mars Uranus
9 •Mercury. 2
1 Jupiter Neptune
,^The second
i
division comprises twelve symbols:-
-
s
'Northern -
. Southern.:
T Aries.. ■
n
. idbra
Taurus T
i
l Scorpio'
Ä Gemini : / Sagittarius
Q Cancer - % Capricorn
’ Leo . ft# Aquarius.
T?. Virgo X Pisces
The third division comprises eight’
'
,characters :-
-
Conjunction, whooh two heavenly bodies have the same longitude.
S& Semi-sextile, when their difference of long. is 30 , or 1 sign.
S O Semi-quartile, f
t f
t T
t f
f I
t " -45°, or l-£ signs
* Sextile, I
f I
f f
l f
f f
f " 60°, or 2 signs
□ Square, I
f f
* ' f
t f
f f
t " 90°, or 3 signs
A Trine, • »
1 I
f I
I I
f f
f ."120°, or 4 signs.
SSO Sesqu.iquadrat e ,
. I
t f
t' f
t I
! f
l "135°, 'or 4
-
1
- signs
«
P Opposition, I
f I
f f
f f
f f
f "180O:, or 6 signs
There are other aspects,’
viz., the v'igintile (18°), the quin-
decile (24°), the...decile (36°), the. quintile (72°), the- tredecile
(108°), the biquintile (144°), and the ’quadrasextile (150Q )
;
. All
these aspects were suggested by Kepler, And their influence' is
undeniable, with the exception of the vigintile, quindecile, and
the tredecile, which require confirmation. When two or more heav­
enly bodies are in equal or parallel declination (north or south),
the effect of their combined influences is as great as when in
conjunction. When at parallel distances in proportion to their
semi-arcs from either the upper or lower meridian, they are in
mundane parallel.
The MAJOR aspects are: the conjunction, parallel declination,
mundane and rapt parallel, sextile, square, trine and opposition.
28
The MINOR aspects are: thè. vigiritile, quindecile, semi-sex-
tile, decile, semi-quartile , quintile, tredecile, sesquiquadrate,
biquintile, and quadrasextile.
The fourth division comprises two symbols:—
ft The Moon's North Node.
• BENEFIC ASPECTS
p
Conjunction , Trine,
Sextile, semi-sextile,
biquintile, decile, quintile.
U The Moon's South Node.
. UNFAVOURABLE
Opposition*^, Quadrature,
Sesquiquadrate, semi-quartile,
quadrasextile.
When the student has committed the foregoing symbols to
memory, it will be advisable for him to learn the signs which
are opposed to each other, viz.:—
T is opposite to ¿i is is opposite to -
T
5
T
i
j
, fl " -
H « / T
(
f " K
The following table will enable the student to determine
the zodiacal position of a heavenly body whose longitude is
reckoned from the first point of Aries:—
From T 0°0' Entering T
Ì
[
' 210°0 '
Entering 30°O' " / 240°O'
t
l K 60°0' " -
Î
5
. 270°0'
t
t 0 90°0' " X
X 300°O'
t
f 120°0 ' " X 330°O'
t
! T
i
p 150°0' ,
, T 360°0'
f
t 180°O'
— 0O0—
FOOTNOTES.
1, The MUNDANE semi-quartile when formed, by direction, by a
planet angular at birth, to the ascendant and mid-heaven, is
powerful.
2. The Conjunction of the Sun, Moon, or Mercury, with Mars or
Saturn is unfavourable.
5, The opposition of the Sun or Moon with Jupiter is.less evil
than with.,Mars or Saturn.
29
CHAPTER V.
ON THE RIGHT ASCENSION, DECLINATION, &C.,
OF THE HEAVENLY BODIES.
"The virtue and motion.of the sacred orbs,
As mallet by the workman's hand must needs
By blessed movers be inspired."— Dante.
Those of' my readers who.,may happen to have forgotten the
outlines of astronomy which were taught, than at school or
college, will do well to look them up again; and.those who
possess a copy of my "Weather Guide Book" vrili find (in the
first" chapter) some remarks, on. the Sphere, etc.
r , ."EIGHT ASCENSION" and' "DECLINATION": If the Equator "be taken
as the" great circle of reference,- the first point of Arles is
chosen as. the origin. The abscissa of any heavenly body, whose
position is thus referred, is called its "right ascension". (R.A.)
;
and its ordinate is called its "declination" (dec.) The R.A.
varies from 0° to 360°, and is measured from the first point of
Ari.es in the direction of west to east. The declination varies
from 0°, t
,
o 90°, and is either upper or under, i.ef
i
, nortltii-pr
south.'
"ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE" : When the Sun is on the Equator
it rises in a right sphere, and its arc above the earth is
exactljr twelve hours, one half of this (diurnal semi^arc ) is
six hours. ( When, however, the Sun has NORTH declination it is
more than six hours, from the time of sunrise, coming to the
zenith (at noon). The difference between six hours and the
Sun's diurnal semi-arc, is its "ascensional difference." It
depends' on the amount of declination, for in proportion as the
Sun declines to the north, it rises in a sphere- which is declined
towards the n o r t h ---an QBLIQJJE sphere; it i-ises before six-
o ’clock and sets as much after six o'clock p.m., and the day
exceeds the night in duration.. When the Sun declines iron the
Equator towards thé. south, it.'rises after six o'clock, and sets
before six o'clock p.m. --- the day is then shorter in duration
than the night. In all cases the difference between sunrise and
six o'clock is the Sun's ascensional difference. . This ascension­
al difference added to the Sun's right ascension if it has south
declination, but subtracted therefrom if it has north declina­
tion, gives its "oblique ascension.",
"LONGITUDES" and "LATITUDES"; ' If the Ecliptic be taken as
the great circle of reference, the first point of Aries is chosen
as its origin. The abscissa of any heavenly body, whose position
is thus' referred, is called its "longitude" (long.); and its
ordinate is called its "latitude" (lat.). The longitude varies
from 0° to 360°, and is measured from the, first part of T in the
direction of west to. east. The latitude varies from 0° tof'.90°,
and is either upper or under, i.e., north or south.
"■ASPECTS" or "CONTTGURATIONS": Two heavenly bodies have
either the sane longitude, or else different longitudes. If they
&ave different longitudes their difference of longitude is the
remainder left after 'subtracting the less from the greater. Since
the long, of two.heavenly bodies may have any value from 0°to 560°
the difference of;longitude.of two heavenly bodies may have any
value from 0° to 560°, But if this difference exceed 180°, we add
360° to the smaller value, and then deduct.the other from it.
Certain differences of longitude of.two heavenly bodies (Sun, Moon
or planets) have been teimed "aspects between the two bodies,"
They are in’ail"fifteen, as stated in Chapter IV. The first two
aspects occur when the difference of long, is either 0° or 180°.
In the former case the two bodies are in "conjunction," in the
latter they are in "opposition."' .The remaining thirteen aspects
occuf when the difference of Tong." is of the following magnitudes
18°, 24°, 50°, 36°, 45°, 60°, 72°, 90°, 108°, 120°, 135°, 144°, and
150°, or the 20th, 15th, 12th, 10th, 8th, 6th, 5th, 4th, 3d parts
of the whole:circumference, and the difference between a semi-
circumference and the 5th, 8th,. 10th, .and 12th parts, respectively.
"DIRECT" and "RETROGRADE" MOTION:' When a planet moves forward
in the zodiac in the order of the sign's, its.motion is "direct."
When a -planet appears to move in the contrary manner, its motion
•is "retrograde."
"STATIONARY" POSITIONS: When a planet'appears to stand still
in the heavens, it is said to be "stationary," and its effect is
then very powerful.
(
i
"ELEVATIONS": The Sun, Moon, or planet nearest to the zenith
at"the moment of birth, is "elevated" above the rest. An elevated
plan'et when in aspect to another is the more powerful Of the two.
"GEOCMTRIC" and "HELLOCBNTHIC" POSITIONS: The position of a
heavenly body as seen from the Earth's centre, is teimed "geocentric
and that which has relation to the'Sun's centre is teimed "helio­
centric." The geocentric positions, only, are considered in
genethliacal astrology, because they have relation solely to the
earth.
"RAPT MOTION": The apparent daily motion of the. heavens from
east’to west is called "rapt motion."
"MUNDANE" ASPECTS: These consist of the’conjunction, parallel,
semi-sextile, semi-quartile, sextile, quintile, square, trine, ses-
quiquadrate, biquintile and opposition. When two heavenly bodies
are two houses apart they are in mundane sextile; when three houses
apart they are in quartile; when at equal distances from the merid­
ian (and having semi-arcs of the same value) they are in mundane
parallel; a planet exactly culminating is in mundane square to the
ascendant; a planet rising is in mundane trine to another planet
situated on the cusp of the 9th or 5t.h house; the remaining aspects
are deteimined in like manner, in proportion to the semi-arcs of
the heavenly bodies.
SI
The mundane aspects are wholly independent of the zodiac;
a planet on the upper meridian is in mundane square to another on
the ascendant, and at the same time may have a sextile in the
zodiac with it.
All the mundane aspects were demonstrated by Placidus, who,
however, affirmed that they were known and referred to by
Claudius Ptolemy, because he writes of the sextile of the Sun
and Venus, an aspect which Venus can never form with the Sun in
the Zodiac. There can be no doubt that they are powerful, but
they are inferior to zodiacal aspects. Wilson was as much
prejudiced against the mundane aspects as Placidus was in favour
of them. Reference to figure 2 at the end of Chapter VI will
render them easily understood.
í
'
-
*{■
■
■
C
"
.
E
33
CHAPTER V I .
QN DlVlDl'MG THE HEAVENS
"Between two vrorlds'..life hovers like a star,
•Twixt night and morn, ;
upon the horizon's vergé."— .
Byron
The ancient inhabitants of Hindostan, Chaldaea, Persia,
Egypt, etc., divided that portion of the heavens visible at a given
moment of time into .SIX equal parts,
which they called "MANSIONS,"
or "HOUSES.". The opposite portion, invisible from being below the
horizon, were also divided by them in six equal and corresponding
mansions, and these:twelve divisions (corresponding in number to
the signs of the zodiac ) they termed' the ¿¡TWELVE HOUSES.
Claudius Ptolaay adopted ,
the' same method, and" in addition
suggested the construction and use of the zodiacal planisphere.
Regiomontanus divided the heavens into twleve equal parts
in the equator, but not in the zodiac. . This division was commended
by Morinus as the most?-exact exiant, yet he complained of .its defi­
ciency, and claimed-to" have supplied it's defect by an invention of
his own. Although the method of Regiomontanus was called "Modus
Rationalis," it is not correct, and is inferior to that of Placidus.
It is,therefore, unnecessary to reproduce it here; but those of my
readers who are curious in this matter will find a description and
criticism of it given by Partridge in his valuable work, Defectio
Geniturarum.
The true method is that of Claudius Ptolany, Placidus,
Oxley, and Zadkiel; it is the semi-arc method (which is the true
motion in Nature), consisting each (house) of two temporal hours,
either of the place or star— -■that is, by a proportional division
of the motions of the moveable arcs from one angle to another. A
diurnal arc is always equal to an opposition aspect, although it
may measure more or less than 180°; a planet rising is always on
the horizon opposite to that where it sets. Of course, there can
only be 180° between the two points when the planet is on the
equator; but when in other places, its diurnal arc must measure
either more or less than 180°, and more or less than twelve hours.
But, whatever may be its arc from horizon to horizon, the space of
the house, in which■it is located, will always be one-sixth of that
arc' (or what has been called its "double horary time"),;xvhich is
one-third of its. semi-arc. And as its whole arc'is equal to an
opposition aspect (though it may not be exactly of the value of
180°), so is its semi-arc equal to a square aspect (though not ex­
actly 90°); and, therefore, a planet on the horizon is in mundane
square aspect to another planet on.either meridian.
The term " C h a k r a v a r t i s i n Sanscrit, literally means
"turners of the wheel"-
- and it is applied to kings who have great
power and dominion.■
*
- The wheel,..so constantly introduced in the
ancient Budhistic and Brahminical religions,, was an emblem of the
circles formed by the heavenly bodies.
34
The "Chart" or -
'
‘
Figure, of the Heavens ," is simply a
scheme,or plan, presenting an accurate picture of the heavens
-
- i.e,, the positions, and...longitudes of the Sun, Moon, and
planets,, and,, in some instances, certain of the fixed 'stars also
-
- for the, moment at which a child is bom. It- shows what planets
may be rising, southing, setting, or on the lower meridian, etc.
In mundane astrology the figure of the heavens is drawn for the
.required time. .
.
. .
.
. It has two hemispheres1
-
- the upper being the diurnal, and
the lower the nocturnal hemisphere— -which are divided, of course,
by the horizontal line. It hhs two other grand divisions, effected
by the line drawn from the upper to the lower meridian. These four
divisions are the east, south, west and north angles, respectively;
the south angle being above the earth, and the north angle below it.
In the northern hemisphere, of the globe, the east angle is on the
left hand side of the figure, and the west on the right. But in the
southern hemisphere this'arrangement is reversed, the east angle is
on the right hand side of the figure (a point which must be borne in
mind when.,the student has to erect a figure for à '
Southern latitude).
■The most.powerful.angle is the south, the next in order of power is
the.,east,■then .come the west, and 'the north. The distance between
the meridian and the horizon is always the same, measured by oblique
ascension, namely, 90°, or one-fourth of the circle.
For the purpose'of illustrating the subdivisions, which
have now to be made, let us suppose that the first degree of Aries
(the first point of the zodiac) is ascending; the opposite point
(the first degree of Libra) vri.ll be descending; the first degree
of. Capri com u s will be on the upper meridian; and the first point
of Cancer on the lower meridian. If the Sun be rising in the first
point of Aries, then he is crossing the equator, and the days and
nights are equal, it is the vernal equinox. The Sun rises, accord­
ingly, at six o ?clock,.culminates at twelve (noon), sets at six in
the evenjiFLg, and arrives, at the' imum coeli at midnight. At eight
a.m., the Sun will have risen- 30° (he is, therefor, in mundane
sextile aspect to the mid-heaven, and in mundane semi-sextile to
the ascendant), and this being one-twelfth part of the circle, the
Sun has passed through one house (and is on the cusp of what is .
.
.
called the twelfth house")".' Iri two hours more the Sun arrives at
the sextile of the ascendant and.' semi-sextile of the mid-heaven,
and has ¡.passed through two houses(or 60°). He is now on the cusp
of the eleventh house. At noon he has passed through a third house
(He is in conjunction with .the midi-heaven). Each quadrant of the
heavens is, therefore,: subdivided'into three houses, making in all
TWELVE HOUSES. '
When tha.Sun is not on the equator, the proportions of
his semi-arc must be taken (in trisections ) to find the time at:
which his centre will pass the cusp, (i.e., the beginning) of any
of the.¡minor.houses. 1
* ' j J , , ; " . ; ; .
The houses.
which aré .next in / rotation to the angles’are
called cadent. They are the XLIthr.IXth, VIth and Ilid hous es,
35
The ancients regarded a planet located in a cadent house as
extremely weak, in nativities, but I think this is a mistake—
at least in regard to the XLIth and IXth houses (a star located
in either of these houses is above the eath). The power of any
celestial body is increased by being angular. The houses next
in order of succession, are called succedent. They are the XIth,
VIIIth, Vth, and lid. In nativities, the power of a planet
posited in the lid house has been much exaggerated by the ancient
and some of the m o d e m astrologers. In fact, too much reliance
has been placed on the power of the houses ih nativities, an
error which Zadkiel I. and Wilson pointed out, and cautioned their
readers against.
The following figure is inserted with the view of making
the text clearer:-
-
Figure 2.
South
East
FOOTNOTES.
1. "Chakravartin" is rendered "a universal monarch" by Mr. Beal,
who translated the Chinese version of the "Abhinishkramana Sutra."
37
(
I
CHAPTER V
ON CASTI NG A > I GORE •
OF THE HEAVENS
. i * . • f. w , . . _ .
. •Till .know thè' stars, -wh-i-ch'-yet -alóne 'to gain
Is knowledge mean, unequal to the pain.; " '
' For doubts'resolved, it no delight affórds, .
But fills"hòft empty heads vttth .rattling-’
words ; ■
I rll search the depths,1 the mBst remote recess,
Andjflying Nature to. confession press;
I'rll .find ttìiat sign-and Constellation'rule,
And wake the difference- ’twixt wise^and -foni. •
M
y. versa shall sing wh.at ..various-ASPECT..ixei-gas ■• ■
— •
’When kings are doom’d.to. crovais,. and slaves to chains
‘ .
. '• ' Manilius^
A map of .'the Heavens should be drawn '
in the circular form.
;Rule A, 1.— Draw, a èìrelè (with a diameter' of four inches is a
convenient size) to;
-represent the heavens; within which draw a
smallertcircular (of; one inch-in diameter)' to represent the earth.
;
.
.
:
-Th'en.A'raw.n straight..r-lìnè'i-.horizontally.," throvi^x the outer circle
to represent the horizon. .Next, draw a vertical line, at right
angles from the- fipst, to--represent.the meridian. The four quad-
_ rant's .thus formed: must .next be'subdivided., each into three parts.
Mark .the Ilidheaven fabo ve.
the earth ) with' the letter S, or the
' letters' m Tc . (
medium-coeli ) and the lower meridian I.C. (Imam
coeli).i If the' figure to be drawn is for a northern latitude,
mark the left-hand extremity of. the' horizontal line E, or ascend­
ant ; and the opposite point , W. It will be. advisable to mark off
* the numbers of the various houses on, the edge of the.outer circle,
bearing in mind that the. ascendant is the first-house.
2.— Observe either in the Nautical Almanac or Zadkiel’s
Ephemeras, .for the year of birth', the 'amount of Sidereal Time at
the mean noon preceding the time of birth given. Write this
down-
- correcting it for the "longitude of the birthplace if- far
from Greenwich by adding 9.86" per hour if the longitude is west,
and subtracting if it is' east. Note how far the given time, differs,
in hours, minutes and seconds from the preceding noon-(or twelve
hours in the day, by a good clock or chronometer). Add this to
the sidereal time"already written down, and add, also, the correc­
tion for the-- di-fference between mean -and sidereal time, at the
rate o.f 9
.
,
86" per hour, elapsed since noon. If the sum exceed
twenty!four hours, deduct that amount,'. The sum Is the Right
ascension of the.meridian at the given .time of birth. . .
((Note.----Some of the old Eph^erides-.-Whitefs are the
best of those prior to 1840--dó not give the. sidereal time at noon.
In such case, the right ascension of the Sun must be found for the
noon preceding the birth (and ifnot given it can be readily cal­
culated from the Tables of Right Ascension, by observing the long­
itude of the Sun at noonJT and this, right,
ascension,
;
•
(
in degrees
and minutes) can be .converted into time by. multiplying, it by .
15
38
(as one hour ansyje;rs to 15° ), if a table for reducing degrees to
time^ be n&fr'a't'‘
handv •
The •
'
vall
i
e
- Obtained -in this'.manner must
n
ox«r be corrected for equation of time ; and the amount (always
given in'Mixte1s Sprèmerle :
d;
aily -
a
t
--noon )-¿'dust :ba .adjcbed or sub­
tracted according to viiether-thë-cloblc.i
s
'
-
>f.a-at pr slow. Next,
add the elapsed time-'since noon («àüd'•tlie-'.'corr.ec't.ion for reduction
of mean Vo sidereal -time ) in the'Manner'.before, .'described. )
)
3. — With a "Table'-of Houses" for-.the nearest ..latitude, if
one be at 'hâhd, ‘
etitef-tlié first’
"column and- find the ¿nearest
right ascension to that'which -you'have ¡obtained, and, mark the
..values "thôréiu ’
givon'tìh !
thè cusp's of the houses* the. number of
'which are fôùiïd âV the heads of fhé-'respective columns, entering
on the opposite houses the same degrees of the opposite signs.
(If no "Table of Houses" can be procured calculated to within
g° ^ r 3° of latitude of the birthplace, this process will have
■io1
-be-effected by means of-a method which-'will- be found in the
FOBIULAE FOR CairoUNG LONGITUDE, & c .)
4. — Place the Sung Moon, 'and planets in the¿figure (after
havingi by the rule of-proportion,-reduced their-;longitudes from
the noon preceding the bifth, as given'in-the Ephemeris, to the
time of 'birth), taking-care" to place.them,in the proper-houses,
which may easily be done'if-it-is. remembered-that the degrees
pass ovèr the cusps-ofthe houses from left to. l i g h t :The Moon's
ascending ("dragon:
head")y or descending■("dragon’a tail") node,
need not’be marked in thé figurejUhléss the Moon happens.
to. be
vèry near one .of..them.' . ■ ^ _
■
B.— HOW TO OAST A FIGüESv OF-THE HEAVENS FOR- A- SOUlHEi^ì..LAÌÌTJDE.
Rule 1 ,--Compute the: P..A. of.the meridian in.-th-e usual manner
(taking care to correct the sidereal time for the longitude of
the birthplace )'
,
- by' adding-S-.86" for each hour,- and proportional
•parts-.thereof for the minutes 'and. seconds, of West longitude-, or
by subtracting-thé same- for. East"long i t u d e . . - ...
2. ---Draw t-h’e' figure, taking care ,to number the houses from
right to l e f t , 'making the. angle on ¿the right;, hand .the .ascendant
and "that- on-the le ft' the .descendant:,-, .or Vllt.h -house._ Mark the
upper.meridian II.G..-and the .loWer ,1.0. . • •
3. -
“
LCompute.'tha!
-lon^tndes t.o‘be inserted' on the''cüsps of the
various-houses by the-'rule-;givén in the appendix-, -
viz.;,-. Oblique
ascension given- to-find the-.1ecliptic •longitude.^
• ' '
?■ ' . .
1
- '
‘ i / •
‘ - i
.
f
j . -.-
4. — Find the Greenwich mean time corresponding to the given
timo at t!
xi©!
,
'-pl^c-e;-
o
f
- birth^ 'and.compute, the...longitudes of the
Sun, Moon., :aildHplanets thereto..,- ... .
- ■ ■ ” ■ f ; ' :--v-G.~IHE\SPlÌCÀOM. ' • - ...V
■ •■ The.:"Specùlum". is .
a tablefcoht'aining -
-
t
h
e
. .latitudes,
declinations,-right,dasaensions,;-m&ri4 i-an distaneea.
*
.
>and sebii-arcs,
of tlie ’
Sun,- moonV'*â'M':
'i54Môf
tsy•
"
and•skbûld always be appênded to
a Nativity. The data r^féhhed'to'may'*be'calculated from the
Nautical Almanac for the year of birth, or from the "Tables"
giveri."in this, work (
)
;
'
(
.Thé plônetV latitudes~are given'in the
EphauerisY and can' be 'reduced-t'o the 'time' Of-birth giyën by
proportion, .in the gahie way as their longitudes. The student
«jaan»' of course, ,na.lte his ;
'^pebuliflii'
irLqlu&e other'data than those
mentiopbdjahQye, af he "désiré to1 make1i'i'Very complete,
p|^Vi£4.iiAP 9Î''TOE;HMVMs\BYh|EANS O# À TeRKËSTRIAL''GLOBE.
Rule 1.— Taise the north pole (if'the latitude of the birth­
place be north) to the degree of the latitude of the place.
Bring the hour and minute of .the, right ascension of the meridian
to the brass meridian. Thè degree of the ecliptic,culminating,
idll, noWy.be...s.pen .on the meridian; and that which is rising will
b,e,,£e<3n ;9h i'Ikè.Teàstepn horizon. ’
(':/; ' " ’
2.— Reduce the pole to the degree given in the "Table of ihe
Poles,.
¡of.Jlouses" .for the eleventh house,., add two .hours to the
R . on the zenith, .and bring .the sum(qf'R.A; to the eastern ‘
horizon¿,.wfi!,9n the "longitude,, of, the ecliptic o h ’
the eleventh house
will be found’to be cut also'by the horizon. "
-
-
a, ¡ J he ..pole to the. degree of..the pole of the, twelfth
house'(found'by'the Table of-Pole's)) 4dd-v
-fdur 'hjp'urs to'the 'R.A.-
of the mid-heaven, and bring the amount thus'gained to'the eastern
hqrizpn.Pi'w^en ,thp,,longitude of. the ecliptic to be placed on the
cusp'of'the ’
twelfth'house, "will‘
be"found" to be cuty by the ’
horizon.
.
.
.
. .
. 4.— Le.ave..the pole at thetlast-named elevation, add eight
hqur§ |to the. ¿«A) 'on..'i;hev
^eridi'anA'arid bring the .value tHits' obtain­
ed to..,the eastern ....hdrlzonr-’
andpthe longitude. ’
¿T the''e:
cli:
pti-c to
be mapke.d ■
on,.the, cu.sp.’
^f (the(sac.ojid house .will";be‘fdiifrS to be aut
by. t.he .horizon. '.
.
.
. " “ l. 1'
' 1,1
5.— Reduce the pole again to'J
the same eTeyatibn '
'
'
a
s
'
for'the"
:eleventh. house, ,.ad,a ten hours .to ,the R.A. on the. nieridinn, and ..
■bring the sum
. thus gained .t|o,"
rt'he'eastern horizon; fehbii the' long­
itude-to be marked on the,.cusp of the ’th'ir'd('hikuse''/
yd;
l'i.' .found*
to be cut by the horizon. ‘ ' '' "
6.— Qn the cusps .
.
o
f the houses.opposite to those above t
•
¡enumerated,.insert the. corresponding'degrees of.(the opposite; '
( '
signs, and the map will then be ready for (t.he'
inseftlori Of the
Sun, Moon, and planets. ' J ‘ ' '
E.— THE TRUE MOMENT OF BIRTH,.
The true moment of birth may be taken as that when the
child first cries. It sometimes happens that the infant is born
asphyxiated or unconscious; in such cases the moment at which the
funis is severed by the accoucheur must be taken as the true
40
(astrological) time; of birth* ...When the.birthplace is remote from
London the, local mean, time, must. be'.taken', "d" 1
(Ed. Note:— In the .light of more modern astrological
usage, the calculation, oT'horoscopes. for. southern latitude of
birth is by a different process in bpder t.
o avoid..the confusion
of the ascendant sometimes .being on the, left ,.and other times ;
being on the right. Likewise, Pearce's rule for "time of birth"
when an "infant is born asphyxiated or unconscious" seems in'
error. If the child finally-does breath,, ti^en it is the chart
for that moment of first breath, but'if it does not, there is
no life, hence no nativity.) .
f o o m c i i s . . '
1. Thesé words apply to seme of the nineteenth century (soi-
disant) "really scientific" men, who mistake mere learning for
knowledge.
2. "The Five Books of Manilius; containing a system of the
Ancient Astronomy and Astrology, together with the Philosophy
of the Stoicks," were translated and published by Mr. Thomas
Creech, in the year 1700.
.
.
j
*
3. A Table to Reduce Mean to Sidereal Time is given in Chambers'
Mathematical Tables.
4. A table is given for this purpose in Chambers' Mathematical
Tables. '
5. When an old Ephemeris is iiséd, cafe must be taken to ascertain
if it is calculated to mean or apparent time. If to the latter,
rectification will be required which is effected in the same.way
as that already described in the Note to 2, when dealing with the
Sun’s R.A. Zadkiel’s Ephemeris is computed for mean time, and
requires, therefore, no rectification.
6. "Tables of Houses" for many northern and a few southern lati­
tudes (cities of importance) are given in my FUTURE (Juen 1893 to
July 1894). A set of these numbers may be had from the author,
price 6s.6d.
(Ed. Nòte.— These old footnotes, though no obsol^e, are reprinted
to indicate to present day students the difficulties students of
a generation ago faced.) '
4
-
CHAPTER V I I I .
.•-41
■CALCULAT1 ON' Of N.AT'1 V H iE S •
• ■ -How just' and wise,
•And -good, -is the Contriver of the skies;
At whose command the stars in order-met,
JJho „times .appointed when to rise and set;
That Heaven's great secrets may be hid no more,
And man, instructed, gratefully adore.-
-
Manilius.
‘. . HIE FIGURE OF THE HEAVEMS is. usually teamed the HOROSCOPE,
whereas the degree of the zodiac ascending is really the horoscope.
The-late Dr. Richard Garnett contributed to the Classical Review,
July, 1899, a most valuable paper "On Some Misinterpretations of
Greek. Astrological Terns',"-'-in which he wrote as follows: —
• "Even those who may considex- the correct.definition of astro­
logical terms in a Greek dictionary a matter of slight intrinsic
importance, will allow that it may be discussed with profit if it
serves to drawn attention to the necessity of bringing the chief
Greek-English lexicon to a level with the philological retirements
of the day.
• -''The misconceptions of astrological teams in Liddell and
Scott's and other dictionaries proceed chiefly from the omission
to note the astrological significance of a single Greek word, which
in Manetho and similar writers means neither an hour nor a season,
but the degree of the zodiac ascending at any nativity. Manetho
uses the term perpetually, and never in any other sense. ISIhether
his Latin translator understood him or not is uncertain, but un­
questionably he invariably renders!it)by hora, which if taken
literally involves sheer absurdity. (The translator makes Manetho)
say,Si etiam horam in quadrupedibus reperias. The occurrence of an
hour in!:
a ..quadruped must be highly exceptional; but what Manetho
means, is, 'should the degree ascending be in a quadrupedal sign,*
.such as Leo, for example, That (the word) denotes the degree
ascending here and elsewhere is patent from innumerable passages.
A great part' of Manetho's third book is occupied'with the descrip­
tion of the supposed effects of planets when, occupying the angles
of a nativity, i.ew, rising, southing, setting, or opposed to the
meridian."
In the Medical Press and Circular, December 26th, 1877,
three cases of puerperal convulsions were quoted from the clinical
records of the Rotunda Hospital, Dublin. I n ’the:second case, the
time of birth of the child was-states as' S^dO^prm. of November
20,, 1877. As this case affords a means of verifying the' aphorism
attributed^.to; Claudius Ptolemy, relating to children- insusceptible
of nurture, the figure of the "heavens may-be taken as the first
example. In order 'to avoid the possibility o f dispute as to the
true right ascension of the meridian, it-shall be-'computed; from
the Nautical Almanac for 1877, wherein, at page 183, the sidereal
time at Greenwich mean noon of November 20th is given, thus:—
42
Sidereal Time, G . M ; noon, v ;
v g X-v -
!
V :
- . . . 15h 580
1 25.28s
Add correction for long, of Dublin 25E
1
21S W. . ______ 4 .17
Sidereal, time at 'Dublin*.'.,. ......................
Add the time of,,birth. . V";y.
Add difference of /mean 'and sidereal'tiiae;
‘
Si
l
4CP
'
.
'
'
.
R.A. of M.C. 294^46'24". '.-V-^ '
.
’
.'V .
..
d
-
.
*
r 'FIGURE 3. ,
i
J
kC
15 58 29.45
3 40 0.00
________ 56.14
19 39 5.59
Referring to the Tables of Right' Ascension it.will be
found that 294°46’ will give the sign Capricornus'22°56’ on the
upper meridian. "Tables of Houses" for Dublin^ give Aquarius
14° on the cusp of the eleventh House, Pisces-21° on thé twelfth,
Taurus 24°41’ on the ascendant, G-eiiini '19° -on the second., and
Cancer 6° on the third house. The"sign-Aries is intercepted in
the twelfth house, and it's''opposite/;
iibrai.in the sixth,.
.
.
.
.
.
. The longitudes of the Sun,Jv!oon, and Planets may be
¡..readily found, by proportion,'- from-'those given of them at the noon
"preceding and that following the''tMb o-f:
-birth-l
i
t
'Zadkislis.’
.
.Epd’
emeris, for 1877,. The'time of birth being Dublin mean- time-must
first bo reduced to the corresponding'GreentAdch mean.-time by; add­
ing'the longitude of Dublin '
to'•i
t
'
.
' This make 4 ^ ^ 1 . s.
.
-
..G.M.T., after noon bn the' 20th of- November;'1877. The Sun’s long­
itude at noon of the 2pth day-was Scorpio"28°18*56^, and on the
21st, 29^19 r55";'his ffiotioni'xn the -twenty-four hours was- there-
.
'
„
fore iop0’37"..' Then, 'by the- golden’
rule of'three:— :
':
..
43
As'the ternary proportional logarithmof'.24^(a,c. ) 9..12494
To,. « " " ' ,
4
h5 l/3m 1.64364'
So " " lo0 ’37" .47268
10* 19M = 1.24126
Longitude of Sun at' noon Scorpio 28° 181 56” .
Longitude of Sun at birth Scorpio 28° 29* 15”
For the Moon’s longitude:— ■
As prop.log. of 12^(a.c. ) 8.82391
' To " 4h5 1/3» 1.64364
So Moon' s motion 6°39125" - 1.43240
To " 2°16' s
' ’ 1.89995
.Long;. Moon at noon Taurus 25°02'
Taurus 25°18' ,
!
The.
ancient, aphorism given i
r
i the Tetrabiblos is as'
follows:—
"If either of the two luminaries (Sun and Moon)' be in an
angle, and one of the malefics (Mars or Saturn) be eitherin
.conjunction wi'thJthat luminary,or else distant in longitude
'from each luminary in an exactly equal .space, so as to form the
point oX junction of two equal sides of a triangle, of which two
sides the, 'tw©- luminaries foim the extremities; while'at the same
time'no benefic planet may partake in .the configuration, and while
the rulers (or disposers) of the luminaries may be also posited in
places, belonging to the mal'efics, the child .then born m i l not be
susceptible ©f,nurture, but M i l immediately perish."
In the nativity under consideration, the Sun is in the
•descendant or western angle, the Moon is close to the ascendant
by longitude, although already x-isen having 4°59' 6f north; lati­
tude, and within three degrees of exact opposition xvith the Sun;
and the .evil_planet Uranus is in quadrature (90° aspect) M t h
both Sun. and Moon. The Sun in the martial sign Scorpio. The
malefic planets, Mars and Saturn, are elevated above the Moon,
and neither the Sun (hyleg) nor the Moon has any adequate assist­
ance from either Jupiter or Venus, the latter planet .being in
semi-quartile with the Sun.
The child, a fanale, lived "only for about txventy hours,
and was very puny and feeble. Very great difficulty was experienced
in establishing respiration, artificial respiration being kept up
for nearly five hours before natural respiration was fairly estab­
lished." The mother, who was only nineteen years old, recovered
from a very dangerous attack of convulsions.
The truth of Ptolemy'.'s' aphorism is supported in this in­
stance in a.remarkable manner, for the'afflicting planet Uranus
was unknown to that ancient and renowned astronomer and geographer;
and it is found to be distant in an almost.exactly equal space of
ninety degrees of the ecliptic from each'luminary, the Sun, hyleg,
m
being .in the .western angle.
of-ithevheavens*; Despite all that
surgical skill.-'cduid do fol the child,1
'she was insusceptible
of nurture, and-'did'. immediately perish'. >
•
EXAMPLE II ,
:
-*Goethe£.:
i.n ¡hiss Autobiography0 prélates that:--r-
"On the 28th August, 1749, at mid-day, as the clock struck
twelve, I came into the world, at Pran.kfPtt-.onTthe-Maine. .-My.
horoscope was propitious, ^he Sun stood in the sign of the Virgin,
and had culminate3
;
.for-.the day. Jupitef'.and .Venus looked on him
with a friendly ey.ev;.'hnd Mercury not adversely; while Saturn and
Mars kept thenselyg^,^indifferent. The Moon., alone, just full,
exerted the power'jSTHïér' reflection all the more, as she had
reached her planetary' hour. She opposed herself therefore to
my birth, which could not be accomplished until this hour-was
passed. These good aspects, -which the-¡astrologers managed, sub­
sequently, to reckon very auspicious for me, may have been the
causes of my preservation; for, through-the unskilfulness of the
midwife, I came into the world as dead, and only after various
efforts was I enabled to see the light."
'v • • •parkbr,
;
svEphbmefi:
s;fer -1749’
— -a có'py:of which‘
may be •
inspected at the British ■Mú¥eúm---give's ’
the-' Sun’s-'longitude at
noon of the 17th of August (O.S.)^ as Virgo 5°10*. The Table of
Right Ascensión1givéh 'só'aíré%cíhdití'g',
'
t
'
ó-this longi-
tú'dé'; the -c l o c k ' w a s ' 'fas#,
•!
tb§i»é'fO-re :
13''-15" mist- be' sub- ■
’
tracted therefrom,' and á
b
-
t
l
i
e
'
-
'
-
'
longitude b?:
‘
Fraiikfórt-c¡ri-the-
!Maih'-’
is, in tinia 34^45^ East 'of Greehwlcíi, 1 *25*''must also be
subtracted, thus making’
the' RVAV ó # 'the' :
Midh'oav&i '-156°45-’2.0” ,
•
45
vüichvg-ïv’
ès- Vi-r&o,
;
4°551 ûs the ■
longitude..to ;
be .placed on the
upper1meridian. • • ' • '
.
.
-
i
.■ ■
The latitude of Goethe’s,birthplace.is 50o6’43" N.,-
The ascendant is; accordingly Scorpio .1.7°38! ,
In Goethe's nativity the Sun is hyleg and is, happily,
free from affliction by Saturn, Mars, Uranus,, and Neptune. The
ascending position of Saturn delayed the, birth. and danger of.
asphyxia followed. It is open to doubt whether his coming into
thé world "as dead" was owing to the.unskilfulness of the midwife,
for every skilful obstetric physician.meets with such pases .
occasionally; Indeed, it wxs a very fortunate circumstance that
thé birth-did not take'-place half an:hour earlier, .when Saturn was
exactly on-the Eastern horizon ;
(
or ascendant), for in such: case
^Goethe1
would have been- liable to suffer from.some;chronic ailment,
cSr deformity, or to serious accidents, from time to time.
EXAiFLE III.— In the first volume of the "life of the. Prince
Consort ," the time of- birth is given of Prince Albert, to the
nearest hour, in a letter written by the Dowager Duchess of
Goburg-Saalfeld to -the Duchess of Kent.:-.---Rosenah, ;
August.- 27th,
1819.- -The- date will of -itself make you suspect that 1 am -sitting
by l'ouischen’'
s bed. -She was yesterday'morning safely -and ■quickly
delivered of a little b.oyf'
, . -
.
. at six the little dne. gave his
first -cry' in. this world." ' . £,
-
v •
-IVhite’ Ephemeris for 1819.gives the. longitude of the
Sun at noon of the 25th of August as .Virgo 1°23-' 51 ■his right
ascension may be found -by the following1process :— •
-
Logarithm Cosine.
1of O.E. 23°27'58" 9.9625058
Tangent 28°36.' 9" (from Libra 0°00'00» )9,7.566150 plus
'Tangent of 26034'23" - 9.6991208
Then 180o0'0"-26o34'23" = 155°25'37" or 10h13m42.
Subt ract for Eqtiation of ’
i
1 Time ■31'00" or 2 4 .0
Subtract for longitude of
lb2°52.'48" or 10hllm 38.5s
.Rosenau ’ i '49 cr •
' 7.25
152 53 48 'or 10 11 31.25
Add difference mean and.
sidereal1time ■ 44 30. or 2 57.98 -
Add time elapsed since..noon
•
• ■ ■: •’
■ •270 51 30 or •18t 3 24
424-28 18 or : 28-17 53.23
Subtract"the circle ■ ■360-'- - 24
The R.A. of Midheaven is ' 64°28'18"roh"
'46
Thé longitudes’Of'the'Sun-, Moon'^’
and-jlànets'have how
to be computed by proportion, from White's Ephemeris;
-for-1819'j '
for 17^.17^12s of August 25th, Greenwich Solar Time, and entered
in the figure of the heavens. The declinations and-right ascen­
sions can be readily fouiid 'bÿ means' Of •the Tables of -'R.A, and1
’
-
-
declin. and'entered in the Table or. Speculum, attached to the dia­
gram. .
. ' ' '
. '*' - ' ‘ ■
. . . For. example, Uraiius is' in'longitude- 20Û3O' of Sagit­
tarius , and' in'latitude 0oS
*
'
. South,'
what" is '
his declination?
(a) The Table of Declination headed "Sagittarius with South
Latitude,".gives the deelin.'corresponding-to 20° without’latv
as 23°05', and 21° gives 23°10', difference 5'. Now-'Sàÿ: as 60'
of long, are to 5' of déclin.,' so are 30' to 2'30" -plus. Opposite
the long, of 20°, and in the column headed 1° of lat., we find
24°5' of deelin. Now say: as 6’
0:
* of lat. are to 60'' of'deelin.,
so are' 8 ' of lat. to 8 ' of déclin.plus'. " Then as the differences
e' found are both plus, they must be added together, thus 8 '
plus 3'. (rejecting the seconds) " 11', and this -'added to 23°5' =
23°16' as the declination of Uranus at the time of birth.
(b) Let it nOw be required to find the right-ascension of
Uranus. Reference to the Table of R.À., "Sagittarius with South
latitude," shows that' 20° of' Sagittarius without latitude is
(adding 180° to the 79°7' given) '259°7*, and that of 21° is
260°12', difference 65'. Now say: 60':65*::30':32'30"plus. On
a line with. 20° of Sagittarius, and in the column headed 1° of
lat. it is seen that the R.A. is 259°2' difference 5'. Then
sa;; 6 0 ' : 5 ' :8':0'40"minus." As the first difference is plus
and the second minus, the latter must be subtracted from the
former: 32'30" - 0 T40" = 31'50" plus, or 32', which, added to
259°7' ,
. gives the R.A. of Uranus as' 259°39 '.
(c) The meridian distance is found by'taking the difference
between the R.A. of the nearer meridian and that of the planet.
In this case, Uranus -being below the horizon, we must subtract
the R.A. of the lower meridian (obtained by adding 180°0'0" to
that of the upper meridian) 244°28' from 259°-39 ' and thus find
the meridian distance, of Uranu‘0 to be 15°11'.
(d) The Semi-arc of a celestial-body is. found'by adding
the logarithm tangent of its. declination to the log. tang., of
the Pole of the- Ascendant (whi'ç)i"i1
,
S
-.the latitude of the birth­
place) and thé sum is the log sine "o'f the ascensional difference,
which must be added to 90° if the planet is below.the horizon,
and in south declination,’or above the earth and in north declina­
tion; and subtracted if the celestial body is above'the horizon,
and in south" déclinâtionyor-below- the horizon and in north decl­
ination. When ,
'
'in ‘
•computing'- primary directions the body directed
changes its--hemisphere, its opposite, semi-arc ban be found by
subtracting the one given, in the speculum, fr o m -180°.
Let it be required to find the Semi-Arc of Uranus:—
47
; ■ Logarithm-, tangent' of 50°17' N. lat. 0f.Sp&en&u 10.0805,519
“ •
i
.
:
-
'
.
:
. " ■ 2S°15a*’ deci. Uranus:. , • 9.6552727
sine of' SL^'SJS*1'ascensional diff. =' 9.7138246 •
As Uranus is below the horizon and in
31°09''plus 90° = 121°09’, his
(nocturnal) semi-arc.
The declinations, right
ascensions, meridian dis­
tances, and semi-arcs of
the other celestial
bodies being computed
and entered in the
table, thè speculum
is completed, and i
s
,
,
ready as the basis
for'the calculation
of the arcs of
primary direction. -
The reason for
adopting the rectifica­
tion of.the stated time
of birth, six o'clock a.m.
to six hours, threle minute.s
and twenty-four seconds, a.m..
-mil be given in the chapter on
rectifying the nativity.
L
> .
.
.
. J ligure o.
south declination,
NATOS— The Prince Consort, 26th August' 1819,
6:03:24 a.m., Hosenau
THE SPECULUM
LATITUDE ' DEGL. B .A : [
VÌER.D I S . S.A.
G I0 °
Ì
4L ' n 15br°OS ' 3 9 ° 57' 10 3 0 11 '
D 11°50 *S 209°3 0 ' 54°50' 107°32'
y 4° 10 's o°p6 's I70°5V 7 3 ° 3 k ' 9 0 0 )4.3 '
y t ° 0 5 'N I5°46'M 7 8 0 3 0 ' I09°52'
e o ° 0 9 'S 25°09'N l 8 °i8 ' 120°59'
% o°5S 's l 8 °l|Ìj/S 3I2°27' 67°59' 1 |Ì4
-°0 6 '
¥
p° o q
0 ° 0 8
's
's
2 P35'S
2 3 ° ! 6 s
0 ° i6 '
2 5 9 0 3 0 '
6 k ° 1 2 '
1 5 0 1 1
86°53'
1 2 1 °0 9 '
1 0 16 'N 2 2 °0 9 'S 2 6 6 ° o r 2 1 °3 6 ' lI 9 °2 t '
The as;pects in the Prince Consort's horoscope are :-— Sun
sextile Moon; Moon applying to par.dec.Venus and semi-quartile
Uranus; Mercury semi-sextile Venus, quartile Mars, and Uranus, ses-
qui-quadrate Jupiter-; Venus'trine Uranus, sextile liars; Mars
separating from opposition- with Uranus and applying to opposition
withiNeptune; Saturn quaz*tile Neptune; and-Uranus oh.thin six degrees
of conjunction with Neptune. "Midheaven- (
M
-
.
.
C
. ) proximate*'trine
,Jupiter. :
48
EXAMPLE IV.— H.R.K., the puke, of Connaught.opened, the-first
South African Parliament on the» fourth day of-Uiovember”
, 1910, at
Noon, Capetown mean time, latitude 33°5S' South, and longitude
■^ni^fflggS j
;
asf 0f Greenwich. "
Sidereal Time at' Greenwich mean noon
Correction for I^IS1
3
^ 3 East •
R.A. of the' Midheaven, 222°48!
,
1"
.14h51m24.19s
12*15
i4hKLm12.04s
..Figure '
6.
(Ed. Note: Once again the
student is cautioned that this
is not the method now used.)
O i ! °0 7 ' 5 0 ' V
9 60
o6'*
n
\ ■
:9 5 ° 3 9 ' m • .
' 4 a 8 °2 7 'ii "
■
■
■
cT 2 8 °5 5 ' ^
Parliament Opened
Nov. 4, 1910,
Noon.
Capetown,S.A.
The longitudes of
the Sun, Moon, and planets
have now to bo computed'from
Zadkiel’s Ephemeris (pp.45, 47
of Zadkiol’s Almanac for 1910)
for 11^46m 5s' a.m. of November 4th, •
Greenwich Mean Time, and. placed in the respective signs, and houses,
in the figure.'
The Midheaven is Scorpio 15°161, and the Ascendant is
Aquarius 20°311. The Sun has passed the upper meridian and is in
the ninth house, in ll0?
-
’50” of the sign Scorpio. The Moon is in
the tenth house, in Sagittarius 6°42'. Mercury is in the ninth
house, in 6°3’ of Scorpio, very near-Venus in 5°39* of the some
sign. Mars has just separated from Jupiter (their conjunction
having taken place at 3^34m a.m. of the same day), and is in
28°35' of Libra, Jupiter being» in-28°27' of the same sign, in the
ninth house. So that five of the celestial bodies are within a
space of 38°15’, and near the upper meridian. This augurs a ,
brilliant future for United South.Africa, under the British flag.
Nevertheless, Saturn in the third house, and Uranus in the twelfth,
seems to pre-signif'y some trouble with a neighbouring, ambitious
nation, and from secret foes,, .from time to time. Jupiter, ruler
of the eleventh and'second houses, being in conjunction with Mars,
49
pre-sigiifies some serious squabbles in Parliament over financial
measures, and some racial antagonism for Q time. Applied science,
music, art, and literature, will be advanced greatly in South
Africa.
Before proceeding further, the student is advised to
make himself master of the foregoing rules for casting horoscopes.
"Tables of Houses" for Prague, lat. 50°5' N., Taunton,
lat. 51°1' N,, Buckingham, 52° N . , Nottingham, 52°57' N., Dublin,
53°23' N . , York, 53°57-g-' N. , Nev/castle-on-Tyne, 54°59' N. ,
Edinburgh, 55°57' N . , Aberdeen, 57°9' N. , Wick, 58°27' N . , St.
Petersburg, 59056g' N . , Adelaide, 34°56' S., Brisbane, 27°28' S.,
Pa^is, 48 50T N., Rome 41054, N . , Washington, 38°54' N., Cairo,
30 2* N., and Benares, 25°19' N . , were all given in Future, June
1893 to July 1894, inclusive, enabling students to cast horoscopes
readily for any place i
-
n G-reat Britain, and Europe, and two
important places in the Southern Hemisphere,
The formulae for computing the longitudes of the
eleventh, twelfth, first, second, fund third houses, are given
m the appendix to this book.
ÍT, f .X.t
: '*
■
'!)
51
CHAPTER IX .
‘...THE SIGNS AND CONSTELLATIONS OF THE. ZODIAC.
"Now constellations Muse* and signs rehearse;
In order let them sparkle in thy verse;
Those which obliquely bound the.burning zone,
And bear the summer and the winter Sun— -
Those first'; then those which roll a different way
From west, nor Heaven'S diurnal whirl obey,
Which nights serene disclose, and which create
The steady-rules, and fix the laws of Fate.---.
MANILIUS
THE ZODIAC is a band or belt, measuring about 14° in
breadth, but, as Venus sometimes appears to have double her real
or heliocentric latitude, it is more correctly considered to be
18° in breadth. The ECLIPTIC, or path, of the Sun, passes exactly-
through the centre of the zodiac, longitudinally. ; ,
The ancients divided the zodiac into ten signs -
-
Libra being omitted altogether, Virgo and Scorpio, being merged
into one thus: Virgo-Scorpio. Hence the similarity of their
symbols,T
i
^ T
j
, .
Claudius Ptolemy hands down to posterity the division
of the zodiac into twelve equal parts, of 50° each. He says .—
"The beginning of the whole zodiacal circle (which in its nature ■
as a
- circle can have no other beginning or end, capable of being
determined), is,, therefore, assumed to be. the sign Aries, which
commences at the vernal equinox.”
Ptolemy speaks of "the ambient" as producing the effects
attributed to.the respective signs of the zodiac, xihen in the
ascendant at a Nativity.
The first sign, Aries, extends 30° in longitude from the
equator and 11°29* in declination. The sixth sign, Virgo, has the
same value in declination from the equator, yet experience proves
that the general character of the respective influences of the
stars in these signs, is totally different.
That the names assigned to the various divisions of the
zodiac are appropriate is abundantly proved by the experience of
ages, although at first sight, they may appear to be fanciful and
arbitrary.
Ptolemy writes of the influences of the signs of the
zodiac as follows2 :-
-
, "It. is the general tendency of the quadrant comprised
between the vernal equinox and the summer tropic to produce good
complexions, advantageous stature,■fine constitutions, and'fine
eyes; with a temperament abounding in heat and moisture.
52
"The quadrant from the summer tropic to the autumnal
equinox tends to produce an ordinary complexion,. proportionate
stature, a healthy constitution, large eyes, a stout person,
with curled-hair,, and- a temperament abounding i
n
.
- heat- and dryness.
,
f
The quadrant from the autumnal equinox to the winter
tropic causes yellowish complexions,-slender, thin, and sickly
persons, with -
a
. moderate growth of hair:
, fine eyes, and a temper­
ament abundantly dry and cold. . ^
,;
”The other (remaining)- quadrant,- frcm the winter tropic
to the venial equinox, gives a dark complexion, proper stature,
straight hair on the head and some on the body, a goodly figure,
and a' temperament abounding- in cold- find moisture. •
"To .speak,- however,, more particularly, all constella­
tions- of human form,.-both those within and those without, the
zodiac, act in favour .of giving a handsome shape to the body,
and due proportion to the figure, while those not of human form
vary. .its. due proportions, and incline it towards their own shape,
assimilating1if,"' in some measure, to. their own peculiarities.,-
either by enlarging or diminishing its size, by. giving additional
strength or weakness, or by otherwise improving or disfiguring it.
Thus, for example: Leo, Virgo, and Sagittarius enlarge the person;
and- Pisces, Cancer, and Capricorn tend to. make it diminutive; and
thus, again, the upper-and anterior,parts of,.-Aries, Taurus.-, and
Leo increase its--strength,'and.their lower and -posterior parts
render it weaker; while, on the other-hand, Sagittarius, Scorpio,
and- Gemini act conversely, for their anterior parts produce .
greater debility, and their posterior parts-give greater vigour.
In like manner Virgo, Libra, and Sagittarius contribute to render
.the person handsome and well-proportioned, and Scorpio, Pisces,
and Taurus, incline- it to be-misshapen and disfigured. .
"The other constellations also operate on similar prin­
ciples;. and;-all these influences it is necessary to bear in mind,
in ordep that the peculiar properties, observed in their joint,
temperament., may be- so compounded as to'authorise an inference
therefpom, concerning, the form and temperament of -the body." .
-
R. A. Proctor wrote:—
- "The zodiacal, twelve are in. some.respects the most ;
impor­
tant and, interesting of all the■
constellations. If-we could deter­
mine the origin of these figures, their exact configuration as-at
first devised, and the precise influences assigned to them in the
old. astrological systems,-we-.should have obtained, important evi­
dence of the origin of astronomy itself. I.t seems highly probable
that the date to which all inquiries into the origin of the con­
stellations and the zodiacal signs seems to point-
- viz., 2170 B.C.
-
- was.the date at which the Chaldean astronomers- definitely.adop­
ted the .new system, the luni-solar».instead of the lqnar division
of the zodiac and. of the time." '
53
Reference to the Tetrabiblos of Claudius Ptolemy will
show the precise influences assigned to the zodiacal constella­
tions by the ancient Chaldean astrologers. As before stated
the Tetrabiblos was based chiefly upon the teachings or writings
of Hermes.
The Chaldaean and Egyptians depicted the events of the
early ages of the world, their mystic religion, in the emblem­
atical figures of the constellations. The Greeks and Romans
replaced several of the Chalaean constellations by other emblem­
atical of their own history.
Eratosthenes says:—
”That the constellation of Argo was placed in the heavens
by DIVINE WISDOM. That the Argo was the first ship that ever was
constructed-
- that it was built at a period of most remote anti­
quity-
- that it was an ORACULAR VESSEL---that it was the first
ship that ventured upon the sea, xvhich had never been previously
crossed; and that it was placed in the sphere as a commemorative
token to posterity.
The Greeks themselves, so far from claiming for any of
their philosophers the honour of the sphere, assigned it with
general consent to the Centaur Chiron, the incidents of whose
life prove him, through all the mist of fable to have been one of
the many personages whom tradition has substituted for Noah.*'’
They fully acknowledged that the Argo v;as the ship in which Danaus
with his colony sailed from Egypt to Greece, This was many years
before the poetic fiction of Jason and his voyage through the
Black Sea in search of the Golden Fleece. Now the Egyptian
account is that the Argo was the ship in which Osiris wii;h the
Goddess Isis sailed upon the waters of the great deluge. 0
The people of Hindostán have a tradition in which the
names and circumstances are almost identical. The ship in their
language is Argha, and the persons who sailed in it were Iswara
and Isi; whilst the voyage, also, was on the waters of the deluge.
The Persians have preserved the account, with slight alteration,
calling the ship Arg.
Thus we see the same tradition preserving the knowledge
of the one mighty event, extending through Southern Asia from
Hindostán to Egypt, evidently emanating from one origin, whence
it has spread throughout the world, entirely independent of,
though to the fullest extent confirming the account given in the
Pentateuch by the inspired prophet of the Jews.
The very position of the constellation in the sphere
proves that it was not of Grecian origin. Its principal star
CANOPUS is only 27° from the South Pole, and the greater part of
the constellation is still nearer to it. The whole is, therefore,
invisible to Greece, xvhich undoubtedly received the tradition
from Egypt, xvhence the Greeks and all their science came. As to
54
thé-ephe-iré itsO-lif,- the' southérn^'hàïf is' principally occupied with
aquatic' animais-,•and water appears,, streamihg:.Upon;:4tain all.-dir-
ections. '-In' the.midst of-the' waves;-is the:ship -called, ¿-variously,
Atgo,■
'Afgha,•Arg', Ark, '.'in:'Egypt-,':'Pèrsia,:-Hindostán Oi-.i.by. the, Jews.
Near is a dove which seems flying towards it, and at a1little dis­
tance, a raven perched on the back of a serpent. Further’ off, as
if hë hád just left: the ship., is'the,-fabulous Centaur, who with a
lancé pierces-<an.animal, and- appears 'to,bear it towards a smoking
altar. 'The whole -id a n .
undeniable portraiture :
of'.the mighty.; cat­
astrophe-
- the Great Deluge!' • A.marvelious confirmation of.
.the
Mosaic account. Further, that those who'.framed it. must have .lived
in a southern latitude, and at a time when men’s minds were deeply
impressed with the awful circumstances-of the.terrible event, is
an inference which suggests itself to the mind without effort or
research. • o>
The -teraphim were images, formed' for, the purposes of- wor-
ship," and for divining future évents. They .were made 'by astrol­
ogers, under certain constellations. Among :
other reasons why .
Rachel stole her father’s images, this is .thought- to be.-oney.MViz.,
that Laban might not, by consulting with
what way Jacob took in his flight.
those images -
, discover
flight.
'
.
•
::• • It is manifest» therefore -
,
-that the teraphim h a d .
beeh
constructed -long after the ¡-first knowledge of ther.particulaa?-*: •
:
properties .of-.-the various constellations existed, constituting,
as -such knowledge-did constitute, without doubt the first prin­
ciples-'of. astrology, As Laban lived about six-hundred years after
•the flood, it follows that the influences of the .
‘
Constellations
of the.zodiac were known, within a very few generations of that .
catastrophe, or about 2,200 years before Christ.-' At the present
day., tradition,, history, experience,..and common sense alike set
at nought.,- and- men are allowed to substitute for real ennobling
knowledge and divine truth, their own shallow and absurd specula­
tions'.
Proctor observed that-, "In Egypt, there are temples of
vast antiquity,, having a. dome, .on .which à zodiac— -or-more correct­
l y ,
'
;.a-1celestial'- .hemisphere-— is sculptured with- .constellât ion
figures. And we now learn, from ancient; Babylonian and Assyrian
sculptures, that these Egyptian zodiacs are, in all probability,
merely copies-.-{mere or Less perfect.) .
-
o
f yet more ancient Chaldaean
zodiacs. -..One.-of .these. Babylonian sculpture3 is- figured in RawLin-
son’s Ancient Monarchies. ■
■It-,seems, probable .that,; in a country1
where. Sabaeanism, or star-worship, was the prevailing form of .
religion,- yet: more imposing, proportions-.-would-be given to such
zodiacs than in Egypt.’
’
-
.
:
- ^Indeed',-?’
-continues Hr. Proctor, »there
have not been wanting those who find in the ancient constellations
the. record of the early .history of-.Man.■•According to their views
Orion is Nimrod---the ’
.Giant ’, as. the. Arabic name .
'
o
f the constella­
tion .implies— the mighty hunter, -as the-dogs and. hare.-beside him
signify. . The figure.now called Hercules,;-but- of old. Eugonasin,.-or
the kneeler, and-described-jby Aratus -as :
’a man doomed' to. labour’,
is .Adam,. -His left, foot treads, on the dragon’s head, in- token- of
55
/
?
the sàÿing, ’It shall bruise thy head;’ and 'Serpèntarius,-or the
serpent.
.hearer, is the'.promised 'seed." •
It is stated in the Anacalypsis that, -
”Uhen' the French possessed Italy they' examined the
chair'...of St .''Peter.'and found upon it' the-signs o-f'the zodiac .
-
;
There is, also, a published account, written by a Homan of •
'
■
■
■
eminence, before the time of the French invasion, which states
■that .the same thing was observed, and much discussed on the chair
being formerly.'.taken down to be cleaned. -The zodiac had been
forgotten, or the .
chair would not have been again-taken down."
This is the chait of St. Peter, with its zodiacal chain, on
which the Pope is supposed to sit to rule the Eknpire of his first
crown, of the planets. It must not be forgotten that the triple
crown-is emblematical of liis .three kingdoms. ‘
The illustrious
Spaniard did not err far When he said, that' thé life: of Jesus
was written in the stars. ‘ -
"Irenaeus was Bishop of Lyons. He was one of the first
fathers of the Church who suffered martyrdom, and generally
accounted one of its most eminent and illustrious early-writers.
He was an Asiatic, but. was sent as bishop to-Gaul.- He founded
or built a church in that country. This chUrch is yet remaining
in Lyons, though in the course of almost 2,000 years, no doubt
it .has undergone, many alterations. On the floor, in front of
the altar, may. be‘seen a Mosaic pavement of the zodiac, though
a considerable part of it is worn àwaÿ.:
’
’
Persons who do not look deeply into these'matters,
are easily blinded by being told that it is the remains of an
..old temple. But Irenaeus had no power to get possession of
Roman pagan temples. The pretence is totally void of-foundation.
The style of building, its records, etc., all show what its
priests say' is tr u e v i z . , that it was built by Irenaeus. On
many other churches, which never were Roman temples, both i n :
Britain and elsewhere, similar marks of the esoteric religion,
.which I .have..partly unfolded, may be seen.” •; <
Modern authors have'described the special influences
exerted by thé respective sighs of the Zodiac; The following
may be. accepted as a fair description, of th:
em: —
ARIES (T.) produces a spare and strong body', of:stature - -
rather above the average; face long; eyebrows bushy;;
.neck long;
shoulders thick and powerful; complexion sallow or swarthy;
hair black or sandy; disposition irritable. The first half of
the sign'gives á stronger constitution,'and a
' greater muscular
development, than the' latter half,.
TAURUS ( ) gives a middle stature; a thick, well set body;
a broad, fopehead; full face and prominent eyes; neck and lips
thick; nose and mouth wide; complexion swarthy; dark or black-
hair, often curly; disposition melancholy; -slow to ahgei, but,
when provoked, furious.
56
-GEMINI -
.
(
j
l
.
.
-
) .-usually'produces .a,tall ,
and straight .b.Qdy;
complexion dark sanguine; .■•liair-.biacMsh, eyes.hazc'l., ’si'iht.'
quick; a smart active appearance; disposition fidkle, under­
standing good. v j
t
.
-•.
.
.
.
.
. .
.. • •
CANCER (Q ).--4vioderate stature» upper part of. body somewhat
la-hge; small--round.-face,,-iWith pale, delicate complexion; brown,
hair;- small'gray 'eyes;' effeminate in .constitution and disposition,
subject to;chest, affections,.
• LED i S l >A large, -fair stature,,.broa<i shoulders;
.prominent
and- large eyes;-hair, generally light., .and•often..yellowish; oval,
ruddy countenance;,•of a,high., -resolute, ahughty,’and ambitious
t.emperp .
. VIRGO (U’ ).'--Middle..stature., rather .slender, but very neat
and ■compact; $ark sanguine-complexion; .dark hair.; small, .shrill
voice (but if Mercury ascend in this sign, the native,will be a
great orator), witty, ingenious and studious, but of a fickle
disposition.- -
. . . . -
, ’UBjSA .
(
.
¡
a ),-i-T.all and elegantly formed, rather .slender;, hair
brown, smooth.,..and glossy,- yet sometimes het-black;.. face having
generally; great bea,uty; fine clear, sanguine .comglexi.pn; blue,
sparkling eyes-;'goodttempered,:,amiable, and high, ¿principled.
.
- .-SCORPIO,(ili )x — Strong,.-corpulent, robust body; of middle
stature; ‘
dark complexion; dark brown curling and bushy hair;
neck thick; mind and disposition active, yet reserved'and
thoughtful. ■ ■■■ ■•
SAGITTARIUS (/ ).— A well-formed person; inclined to tallness;
sanguine, complexion, oval face, and handsome; high forehead; chest­
nut or bright-brown hair, growing off the.temples, bald early in
life; long Grecian nose; fine, clear eyes; jovial, active, and
intrepid disposition, very. -fond, of horses and hunting.
CAPRICORN ( ).--Slender make,,..in 30ms cases ill-formed or
crooked; a long, thin face, generally plain; thin*beard; chin long
and, protruding; black,, lanky hair;..parrot« chest; disposition
subtle, collected, calm, witty, and. yet. melancholy.
AQUARIUS (»- ).— Middle stature, stout, well-set, robust, and
strong; ...long-and. fleshy face;.good, clear,., delicate, and sanguine
complexion;, .sandy r
or darkish flaxen hair;.hazel eyes; or preposs­
essing^ appearance, and .good disposition..
- PISCIS ,-(X.).— Stature, shore-,, body, fleshy, crooked, or stoop­
ing, round shouldered; brown hair;, large round, pale face (but if
O be rising, a good complexion); in disposition indolent and
...dull, prone to-.drinking, ..more.-.or loss,.
• . The ¡foregoing, descriptions..rarely answer, exactly.. Por
the ascending sign- .(although..-it has^ chief influence over the;form
57
of the body), will, if a planet be within 5° of the Eastern
horizon, or in close aspect'with- it,.have its influence consid­
erably modified thereby.-
Some authors instruct the student to consider, in .
addition to. the ascending sign', "the sign, occupied by the Moon,
and that in which the lord of the ascendant is placed-." This can
only apply to horary (symbolical) astrology, and not to nativ­
ities, except when the Moon or the "lord" of the ascendant
happens to be--rising, or in close aspect to the horizon, at- birth.
The late John- Yarley gave the following "elementary-,
notions of the twelve signs":—
"The sign Aries, amongst its various classes of human
physiognomy, gives, one that much, resembles that-of a. ram; and
it-signifies that class of animals,- and their, attributes.
-.."Taurus gives very powerfully that of the bull, with
-tufted hair on the forehead*.
"Gemini, though a beautiful and human, sign, yet
occasionally gives, to persons, born when it is rising a strong .
resemblance in the head-?.and neck to the characteristic■forms
of goats, kids, and deer; and therefore, being a bieorporal
sign, or one of plurality, in very ancient times it was repre­
sented by two kids; but, subsequently, the human character of
the sign-has .been recognised by the •introduction of the. Twins,
representing the two stars-Castor and Pollux."
■(These- two stars were in-the sign Gemini at. the time when
the constellations so far agreed, with the signs whose names-they
bear, that the beginning of Aries was at or;near the commence­
ment of the, constellation so-called, and the place of the Sun- at
the vernal equinox.;)
"Cancer is found occasionally to give, among other
characteristics of the sign, a crabbed, short-nosed class of
persons, greatly resembling a crab in features, -when viewed in
front; these persons resemble crabs also, in the energy and
tenacity with which they attack any object.
"Leo produces the physiognomies.most resembling a
lion,- especially in the nose and retreating chin; such as the :
profile of King George III exhibits; and.the sign, is particular­
ly significant of .such animals;as the 1-ion. .
-. ,
"Virgo has been found to be well-suited to the signi­
fication of a class of cool, discreet, studious women."
(An. ancient zodiac, sculptured on one of the -temples of
Thebes, represents this sign ag a-virgin with .
.
a distaff in her
hands,.to-denote the industrious character of women born under
Virgo. The same figure is found in the zodiac in the great'
.temple of- Tentyra. ) .
"Libya,,. independently of/its appearing in the’world's'
horoscope, to mediate the zodiac hori'zon’
tally,
.
;a$d to. balahçe,
as it were, the sign. Aries, has been, foiind to signify' straight '
.
lines and regular buildings,.and the sublime uninterrupted hori­
zon, line of the sea; it represents also the blue colour of the
sky and distances. / .
'
"S.corpio lias been 'Occasionally' found to àffofd to'cine,
c^o'ss of human, form. when, it is 'rising,, a.'near approach, .to ser­
pents, in the expression of the countenance, especially in the
eyes-..and mouth; and when, doing or saying cruel and bitter things,
they are apt to be assimilated to the nature' of .snakes, scorpions,
etc.
"Sagittarius.has been observed to represent, not only
such i-apid..motions as belong to the flying arrow, bdt'.the cent-
aurion form was suggested by the first portion of the sign,
signifying the., deliberation or temperate resolves of.hpnanity,
with happy termination, in a gréâter degree than'the latter half»
which often exhibits more of the excessive impulsés and nature
of a race-horse, an animal most specifically described by Sagi­
ttarius; and .persons born while, the latter half of the sign is
rising, are subject to the constant apprehension'
of vicissitudes
or violent accidents.. . . . . . . .
„ "Capri.cornus.. is found to give gray-eyed human beings
a most .perfect resemblance -in the ..eyes -to the full-grown goat';. '
and in others, both dark and fair, the under lip somewhat re­
sembles that of these animals. Capricorn from reflecting as' it
were, the watery s
i
g
n
.
.
.Cancer, which is opposite to it in the
..zodiac,, and from the former location of the famous fishy star .
Jornalhaut in it (which left the sign about the period of the
great plague at Athens), caused so many'persons, b o m under the
sign to partake in their physignomy of the character of. fish,
that it was anciently represented by a goat with' a fish's' tail."
...(In the,zodiac .'at-.Thebes:» before alluded .
.
t
o,
'.the goat is
drawn.,in full,.and without the tail of the'fish, .as generally
seen;,in less ancient, mediaes.) . : .
, ) .
"Aquarius is, by many persons, erroneously termed a
watery sign; but it is, in.fact, the third,sign of the aerial
trigon; and .as.it. -is an. -amiable, peaceful, .and uranian sign,.
..and, as -the air was perceived t.o be-.the bearer of vapours, clouds,
and even waterspouts K Aquarius was’
.represented by the figure of
the water-vearer, which also denoted one who followed a useful
and. domestic, rather than, any destructive occupation..
"Pisces was found to signify persons who were employed
in fishing, and -in-other, watery concerns; and likewise shallow
streams in which fish., are. readily seen.,’.It’
.is a
. sign ’
under ,.-which
many,fishmongers eje ^orn.,,,.or,in. which planets are located at',A
their .birth,; and. some.of tfre (persons boni w&en it is rising'." .
approximate to fishes in their eyes, which are somewhat conspic­
uous and phlegmatic.
59
"It must be borne in mind that all the si@is indicate
various classes of individuals, and that by the entrance of
illustrious fixed stars into them their characters are reduced
or exalted, as in the instance of Scorpio, which was once termed
the accursed sign, but since the celebrated star Minerva, the
north balance, and other eminent stars have been located therein,
this sign has been the ascendant of many of the most illustrious
heroes, legislators, surgeons, astronomers, painters, engravers,
etc. It was the ascendant of Edward III, and the Black Prince,
of Lord Nelson, Lord Byron, Jenny Lind, and many distinguished
officers employed by the late Duke of Yfellington. The sign is
so strictly martial that no planet except Iviars has any dignities
in it; and it was probably on this account singled out as having
no friendly signification to the harmonics of nature.
"There have been many other interpretations given to
the names of the signs. The most common is that which alludes to
the animals produced in the various months, as the Sun proceeds
through some of the signs. Another originates in the ideas of
the Sun's motion, and its effects, as that at the summer solstice
he begins, like a crab, to move backwards towards southern decl­
ination; that his fiery heat, when in Leo, resembles a raging
lion; that the harvest time is alluded to when he enters the sign
Virgo, who is represented (latterly) holding an ear of corn in
her hand. In Libra he is said to balance the days and nights;
and in Scorpio, to produce an unpleasant effect (by means of
the weather), as if like a scorpion, he left a string behind.
THESE, AND TEE EXPLANATIONS OP TEE OTHER SIGNS ARE INGENIOUS
EVASIONS, INVENTED BY 'THE MEvilFS OP JUDICIAL ASTROLOGY, OR BY
PERSONS ENTIRELY IGNORANT OP IT; AND SERVE ONLY TO MISLEAD PER­
SONS OF MCUIRING MIND PRO,I THE TRCE ZODIACAL ORIGIN 0?. THEIR
APPELLATIONS."
Ptolemy relates that the signs Aries, Gemini, Leo,
Libra, Sagittarius, and Aquarious were denominated masculine,
and the remainder feminine, in alternative order, "as the day
is followed by the night, and as the male is coupled with the
female."
The signs have been divided into four triplicities,
thus: fiery T,ii,/, earthy airy X,At,~ and
watery Q,Til,X.
The bicorporal signs are X, X and the first half of
The fruitful signs are G,Til,X, the barren signs are X,
il and .
The signs of long-ascension are G, A,T(P,At,Til,/.
The signs of short-ascension are •T3,^,X,T,b',X. The
la^t-named are so-called because they ascend in a shorter period
of time (owing to the diurnal motion of the earth being, when
they ascend, nearly parallel with. its orbit) than the others.
A trine aspect falling in signs of short-ascension, is equal to
a square in its effects, according to Ptolemy. This, if it were
60
true., would, only, apply., .per se.to mundane positions, and not
to'differences of longitude in the zodiac . It is not ..true,," .
even in'regard to mundane positions, .and., could only receive
(apparent )
, support, .from experience when the'two bodies ■in.-as­
pect happened also'to be in equal, or.parallel, declination.
Signs of voice'are under and..the first half '
of y because, it is said, when either of these signs ascends
at a birth, and Mercury is strong, the .native will prove to be
a good orator., ’
. .
The'"houses" of the planets are. •readily shown -in the
lollomn£ 'table. It is exactly the, same as that found in the
mummy-case of the Archon of Tnebes, in- ancient Egypt, as may be
see at the British Museum.
a O ' D
. • £s
T
C
P . . ÎC
¿V . . S'”
Ta o
' ' ' T.
/ . . 2i X-
The sign Leo is.the.,.only house, (or chief essential ;
dignity) of the Sun,, just as Cancer is the.only house of the
Moon. The planets had each two houses.assigned to: them. Some
modern.
authors, have .assigned..Aquarius to Uranus, thus either
robbing Saturn .of his"day-house," or forcing upon him a partner.
Howeveh, .
.until experiences ’teaches us in what signs Uranus; and
Neptune*are most powérfiil, I must decline to endorse so hasty an
attempt to provide for one of the "houseless wanderers."
The Sign Aries is said to govern the head and face of
man, and the diseases it produces (when evil planets are located
in it) are the'smallpox, measles, ringworm, apoplexy, palsy, etc.
Taurus rules the neck and throat, and its diseases
are consumption (laryngèal or bronchial), scrofula, croup, quinsy,
diptheria, bronchocele, etc.
Gemini governs the arms and shoulders, and its diseases
are brain fevers, corrupt blood; fractures of the.head and arms,
etc.
Cancer rules the chest, breasts,., and stomach. The dis­
eases under its influence are cancer, asthma, bronchitis, inflam­
mation and consumption of the lungs, cough, expectoration of blood,
gastric catarrh, and fever.
Leo governs the heart a n d ‘
spine., and its diseases.are
spinal affections,, c.onvhlsiohs, acute fOvêrs, pestilence, small­
pox, measles,.jaundice, and all inflammatory complaints.
' Yirgo rules the intestinal .canal., the spleen, the ,abdom­
en, and diaphragm; -
:
.
i
-
t
s
--diseases¡ar.e. colic, melancholia, dysentery,
enteric fever, etc*. '
61
Libra governs the reins and loins; its diseases are
affections of the kidneys, diabetes, tabes dorsalis, etc.
Scorpio rules the generative organa, inguinal regions,
bladder, etc.; its diseases are haemorrhoids, fistula, ruptures,
scurvy, etc.
Sagittarius governs the hips and thighs, and the os
sacrum; its diseases are sciatica, coxalgia, gout, rheumatism,
and fevers; and its accidents are broken bones of the lower
extremities chiefly.
Capricorn rules the knees; its accidents are sprains,
dislocations, and broken limbs; its diseases are articular
rheumatism, hysteria, cutaneous eruptions, etc.
Aquarius governs the legs and ankles; its diseases are
gout, cramp, rheumatism, and corrupt blood; its accidents, broken
legs.
Pisces rules the feet and toes; its diseases are affec­
tions of the feet, gout, lameness, ulcers, and rheumatism.
This, of course, only applies to nativities in which
one or more of the evil planets— liars, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune-
-
may 'be in conjunction, opposition, parallel delcination, or
quartile with the Sun or Moon, or ascending degree, whichever
may be hyleg, and when, at the same time, the hyleg receives
no support from either Jupitei* or Venus. In a less degree, the
sesquiquadrate and semi-quartile aspects affect the health. The
mundane parallel also is prejudicial when the evil planet happens
to be elevated above the hyleg, or close to the cusp of the
eighth or sixth house, or ruler of the sign on either of these
houses.
FOOTNOTES.
1. Tetrabiblos Book I, Chap. xii.
2. Book III, Chap. xvi.
4. Eratos. Catast, XXXV.
5. See Jacob Bryant's Heathen Mythology; and Faber's Origin of
Pagan Idolatry.
6. Plutarch de Isid.
7. See Ecclesiastical Rites, used by the Ancient Hebrews, by
Thomas Goodwyn, 1628.
8 . The Student, June, 1868.
9. Virgil makes the following allusion to the claws of Scorpio,
in the first Georgia:—
"Q,uo locus Erigonen inter, Chelasque sequentes
Pauditur: ipse tibi jam brachia contrahit ardens
Scorpius, et coeli justa plus parte reliquit,"
Ovid alludes to the same sign as follows:—
"Porrigit in spatium signorum membra duorum."
63
CHAPTER X.
THE SUM .-
"Most glorious orb'. that wert a worship, ere
The mystery of thy making was reveal’d
Thou earliest minister of the Almighty.
Which gladden’d on their mountain-tops the hearts
Of the Chaldaean shepherds, till they pour’d
Themselves in orisonsl”-
- BYRON.
The Sun was believed by the ancients to revole around
the earth. The Ptolemaic system :
of astronomy was founded, on this
belief* .It has been rightly observed that, "Ptolemy’s order,
false as it ivas, enabled observers to give a plausible account,
of
the motions of the Sun and Moon, to foretell eclipses., and to
improve g e o g r a p h y . I n a s m u c h as Ptolemy’s systerp. of astronomy
portrayed the actual phenomena of the heavens as they appear to,
observers on the earth, it follows that his astrology is quite
as applicable to modern and improved astronomy as to. his own ,
for the.heavenly bodies act upon the earth, its atmosphere, and
mankind, according to their apparent or geocentric ..positions,
without reference to tlieir -true or heliocentric places. The
Sun's .distance from the earth Ts now computed at. 93,350,000
miles, in mean value. Astronomers have differed,in the past,
so greatly as to the Sun's distance, that it has been variously
stated to be from 28 to 26 millions of miles.
The Sun has’always been held to rule the first, day of
the week-
- SUNday. "It is a curious fact that the Ilebrexv words
expressing the seven first cardinal numbers, are all formed of
one syllable that signifies a star, and- of, one or more, others
that imply the character-or-quality of that star. ATCHED, or
ASHSIIED, one, is a corruption of the words ASH, fire, and SHED,
to pur forth; whence SHEDDAT, the name of God, .the ’All Bounti­
ful and the; words signify 'The All Bountiful Eire;' which is
perfectly characteristic of the Sun, whose rule vjas over IATH.
ATCHED 'day one.’"2
The first deity worshipped was 3EHJS, which was the.
SUN, called in Scripture BAAL; hence the Buddhist■
:
terms Bal and
Bali, denoting a species of magic by which it is pretended that
diseases are' cured. The Greek mythologists elaborated from this
lord or chief ot the Sabaean idolatry both Jupiter and Apollo,
the former as king of heaven, the latter as the local deity of
the Sun.
The figure of Brachma, with four faces, denotes the Sun,
the four seasons, and the four triplicities of the zodiac, viz.,
the airy, fiery, earthy, and watery.
Mr. Coleman says, "This deity"-
- Surya, or the Sun---
"is pictured of a deep golden- complexion, with his head encir­
cled by golden rays of glory. He presides over ADIT-77AR, or
Sunday; from Adit, the first, and War, day." Many ages before
Christianity— in the remotest times of Britain and Gaul— r
-
.
64
the first day of the week was set apart, more particularly, for
the instruction of the laity, and distinguished by the name of
the day of the Sun. A Saronide, or preacher, delivered his
sermon from a jube, or pulpit.. The, discourse delivered was
termed Sab-aith,. or "the word, .of the teacher, or wise man."
Hence the day itself came to be termed the Sabaith-day. The
assembly: was called Sabat-— a term since most absurdly applied
by the French to signify a .nocturnal assembly of witches and
conjurors. In the word Sabbatin.es..is still preserved^the
original unperverted sense of instructive discourses.0 The
divines, or theologians, were, styled Faidhes (hence, the Latin,
Vates), who on the day of the, Sun,- or of Apollo,^ preached thq\
faith, or so much of the tenets, of religion as they chose-to .com­
municate to the people.. The najae, however,.of the Drudical ;
Sab-aith day having happily merged into.that of Sabbath, was
received by the Christians.' Hot' only the change of. the day
(from the Jewish Sabbath, .Saturn's day, the seventh day of the.,,
week), but the primordial appellation of it,.Sunday, stili
collaterally retained.in our language, demonstrates.its,.origin. ■
.then.Constantine.
desired to hand over, the people, who
followed the Drudical religion, to „the. power of the Christian
priests, he issued this decree: "Let all judges and townspeople,
and the occupations of all trades,..rest on the venerable day of
the; Sun, etc.". _ . :■
Eusebius give's an ancient Oracle, which he had copied
from Porphyry, in which we- are clearly told that .the Magi named
thé days of the .week from the .planets. 0
The Sun is said to ppssess "a.hot and dry nature, though
inf erior,. in this respect, to.Mars." and to possess, also, the
peculiar power of destroying the nature and influence of any
planet with which he may happen to be in conjunction, and approp­
riating its qualities to.himself. This is .termed combustion ■
(when the planet is within 8°30V of. the Sun). . A planet within
17° of the Sun is said to be "under the Sun’s beams," but this .
is not so great t
a
n affliction as the former position. There can
be no. doubt that, a planet, gradually .loses its power as well as
its light as it ..approaches the Sun, and slowly regains- i
-
t as it
recedes from.
the .
great luminary. -.The ancients held that.a. planet
within' 17* of the centre of the Sun was thereby fortified,.-and ;
■
this position they termed "cazimi,"- but a; planet so situated -is •
.
undoubtedly in the worst state of-
.
combustion.
Dhen the Sun is afflicted, at birth his influence becomes
malefic, and when an evi-1 direction of his to;the ascendant or
Moon (if either be hyleg) comes into operation, it materially .
assists in the destruction of life, when the Moon is hyleg, an
evil direction to.the.Sun, even when-the latter i s ‘
free from
malefic influence at. birth, ,is somewhat dangerous to life., - ;
}>’
'For success, or. prosperity in the world to be attained',-
it is essential that the Sun,, as. well .as the. Moon,- shall be free.,
from affliction at birth, When both the Sun and Moon are
65- ;
afflicted the person then born has a long-struggle against ad­
verse fate. It is better to have thè Sun and Moon' free from
even the good aspects of Saturn.
The Sun, at birth, in benefic.aspect with Jupiter, pre­
signifies good fortune, and a good constitution (if the Moon and
ascendant be free from affliction).
The Sun in good aspect with Mars, pre^sginifiea success
in war, surgery, chemistry, etc;, and the stronger the position of
Mars, the greater will be his fame.
The Sun in the midheaven.and free from affliction, leads
to public life; and if the Sun have the declination,■or trine with.
Jupiter, eminence in the Church, or the- law or in medicine.
• " .The Sun riding at a.birth, confers courage, ambition,
and good fortune. -But if afflicted by Saturn, liability to consum­
ption or paralysis., or to misfortune. Afflicted by Mars,'-there is
rashness and sternness', unless Jupiter'assist the Sun by good con­
figuration. The Sun is said to govern the heart, spine, arteries,
the right eye of a man and the left eye of a woman. His diseases,
accordingly-are: Affections of the heart and the eye, acute
:
fever, disordered brain, spinal complaints, etc. His angel is
called Michael.: '
■ •
The Sun describes, generally, when rising at a birth, a
.person, of large strong and good build, high forehead, inclined to
baldness, large .
eyes,-sharp sight, yellowish, or light-blown hair-,
and much beard.
If the Sun be well dignified, the disposition is noble,
generous1
, -proud, magnanimous,' humane., and affable, ■friendly, and
generous to an enemy; one of- few words'; and fond of luxury and ■
magnificence. If Ill-dignified, pride, arrogance, and want of'
sympathy.
THE SHE IN -THE TWELVE SIGNS.' - -
© i n T describes usually one of good stature, strong, and well-
made; a good complexion; yellowish, flaxen, or sandy hair; cour­
ageous, and martially .disposed;., likely to succeed in the army or
in the medical profession; fortunatej and victorious.over his
enemies^ -
O intt represents a rather short, well-set person; dark complex­
ion; not very attractive features ; large nose; broad face; strong,
bold, proud, -fond of opposing others, and often gaining'the victory.
O inJX confers a well-proportigned-body; complexion sanguine; hair
brown; of a good, affable, and kind disposition, rather-deficient
in firmness and resolution; and'not particularly fortunate.
Q inQ ..-represents.-.a moderate stature (if -afflicted, deformed, or
66-
diminutive):; brown hair; disposition harmless and cheerful,' . '
somewhat indolent and' addicted to- pleasure.
© inrt gives a strong, well-made person; of a sanguine com­
plexion; light-brown or yellow hair; full round face and large
eyes; honest and upright in conduct, ambitious, and fond of •
pleasure.
■O inTf describes a tall person, ■slender,'.and comely;- plentiful
hair of a brown colour; mind ingenious, artistic or scientific;
disposition cheerful and agreeable. .
O i n r e p r e s e n t s ' a straight, tall body-; a pleasing personality;
prominent eyes; light hair; pimpled face in age; disposition
amiable;- fond of- pleasure, just and luxurious.
O inTil gives a square, fleshy body; broad face and mouth; com­
plexion freckled or sunburnt; hair brown and curling; mind in­
genious ; -disposition rugged and may be overbearing; fortunate
upon the sea and in the practice of medicine, chemistry, engin­
eering, .etc,
O i n / represents a tall,- well-proportioned body,a very comely
person;, oval face; sanguine complexion; -light-brown curling hair;
disposition generous, lofty, proud, aiming at noble ends, bold,'
and capable of great deeds; a good sportsman.
O in-
? describes a mean stature; a
- sickly complexion; oval face;
lank brown- hair; disposition just and upright, generally good-
natured, hasty, and autocratic-,
O inss gives-a middle stature; a corpulent body;' of fair pro­
portions; round, full face; light’
•brown hair; clear complexion;
good disposition, though tinctured with pride and ambition;
artistic or scientific. •‘
O i n X describes a short, fleshy person; round face; good com­
plexion; light-brown- cr flaxen hair; à harmless disposition, may
be his own enemy by reason of extravagance, and indulgence in
feasting and pleasure. ' •
•
The Sun when afflicted -in'Aries, or afflicting the Moon
or ascendant, is said to' cause'conjunctivitis, acne, and vertigo.
TJhen so situated in Taurus, quinsy and other diseases of- the throat.
In Gemini, epidemic fever, or scurvy. In dancer, snallpox, measles,
dyspepsia,and-dropsy. In Leo, -neuralgia of. head, calculus, and
acute ¡fever. In Vi-rgo, diarrhoea, dysentery, dyspepsia,etc. In
Libra, fever, calculus, and renal disease. In Scorpio, sciatica,
fistula, and acute fever. In Capricorn articular rheumatism, and
intestinal affections. In Aquarius,
-disordered blood,' calculus, and
strangury. In Pisces, affections' of the kidneys, dropsy, etc.
P003N0TÎS -
1 . Spectacle de la Nature. 2 . Sadkiel’s Almanac for 1849, p.59.
3. See Etymological Vocabulary, p.97; etc. 4. Apollo— the radiance
of the Sun. Apollo & Sol, in Celtic, have same meaning; an emanation
from eye of heaven. 5. Pr. E.5,14
67
CHAPTER.XI
THE MOON
"To the blanC; Moon •
Her. office, they prescrib’d."— Milton
The Moon, the earthfs satellite, was 3aid by the ancients
to be "feminine, cold, moist, and phlegmatic." Her influence, is,
strictly speaking, convertible as to its character, being fortunate or
unfortunate according to her position, relative to the Sun and.planets
at her birth. Her.position in the-heavens at a nativity, is of much,
importance; her proximity to the earth and the rapidity of her motion
render her a very powerful significator in all. branches of astrology.
The critical years in the life of man, the crises in disease, the period
of gestation, the rise and fall of the tides-
- all attest the verity of
her influence;
The second day of the week (lunae dies) is ruled by the Moon-
-
hence the term Monday. In Hebrew, SHiMIN, two , or ASH-NIM, is compounded
of ASH, fire (the stars being termed the fires of heaven), and HIM,
slumber, meaning "the star of slumber," which evidently applies to the
Moon as ruler of the night, the time for slumber. Thus SELEMIN, two,
clearly indicated the rule ,
of the Moon over -"Day: t w o . . T h e Moon was wor­
shipped under the name of Diana by the Ephesians, whence arose the cry,
"Great is Diana of the Ephesians:" She was also worshipped.throughout
the whole of Asia. The oracle of Themis (the goddess of oracles being
Ar-Temis, Diana,, the.Moon); was .the most ancient, and was consulted by
Deucalion.;after the flood. Among the most ancient Orphic hymns is one
addressed to the Moon under this title:—
Thou bringest from the earth goodly fruits.
"Does not," asks Parkhurst, "this exactly agree vrith the
precious things put forth by the streams of light from the Moon, Heb.,
IAEACHin; of which Moses speaks, Deut. xxxiii,, 14?" This proves, the
belief;of the ancients in the povrer of the Moon over vegetation, a fact
beyond question. .
The ancients considered the full moon fortunate; but when the
Moon was. hornsd they considered it so malignant that a child born under
certain aspects at that time would soon die, or if■it lived, it would be'
guilty of crimes as great as its temper was black. This led the Hebrew
wise women to write upon the walls of their bed-chambers, "Let not
Lilith enter here"— — this demon, Lilith, being certain influences of the
Moon. .
. .
.
When the Moon ascends at a birth the stature of the child
usually becomes tall, complexion pale, face round, eyes gray, brow lower­
ing, arms, short, body.smooth, t&clined to corpulence, and temperament
phlegmatic. If impeded by (i.e., in evil aspect with) the Sun, a blemish
usually appears on or near one of the eyes; and if she be occidental, and
in evil aspect to ilers, the sight is defective. I have known cases where­
in the full Moon rising at birth, without any aspect to the evil planets,
68
lias produced great defect in sight, 'although no hereditary predisposi­
tion of this nature existed.
If the Moon be dignified (i.e., angular, or in the signs
Cancer or Taurus )at!
'bi'rth, the person will be more graceful, of refined
and engaging manners, good easy disposition, ingenious, and given to
travelling; rather unstable, however, and of little forecast, providing
only for the present; prone to,frequently change his employment or
pursuits. , ■‘
;
■ If .the Moon be; unfortunate (i.e., cadent'-, or located in either
Capricorn .or Scorpio and' having no assistance from the fortunes, Jupiter./
or Venus).at birth, the native is:inclined to be slothful, improvident, ■
’
and may be, given to dissipation.. When oriental® the Moon inclines to :
corpulence; when occidental to leanness and deformity.
The Moon' is said to govern the stomach, the intestinal canal,
the left eye of a man and the right eye of a woman. Her diseases are:
.rheumatism, consumption, palsy, colic, lunacy, scrofula, and dropsy.
The. angel of the Moon is called Gabriel. •
. .. / ' /HIE 1/lOON"IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.
/ The Moon in Aries represents middle stature, round face, light
brown or ¡flaxen hair; temperament rash, variable, and passionate; not
a fortunate person. • ; ■
5 in If describes a Veil-formed body, middle stature, poor complexion;
brown of black hair; gentle and obliging in disposition; a fairly fortun­
ate person. ' "
D in K gives a "tall, x?oll-set person, very homely; brown hair; good
complexion; one who is subtle, .crafty, ingenious and variable; unsettled
in life, usually. " : 1 '
. D in G ‘represents middle-sized persons, well-proportioned and fleshy;
face round and full; complexion pale and dusky; hair brown; of a pleasant,
merry easy disposition, free from passion; fortunate and highly respected;
but of a roving, and indolent nature.
D .
. in.fi describes a person strong, robust-, ■above the middle height,
large boned; full face; large eyes; brown hair; sanguine complexion; ■■
disposition ambitious; hardly fortunate.
D in If gives a 1
'person of tall: stature; daidc brown or black hair; :•
oval face; dark, ruddy complexion; of an ingenious fancy, invetive,•re­
tiring., melancholy; often unstable, and rarely fortunate.
•
D. inkf describes a tall, neatly* formed'person; smooth light brown
hair; fine sanguine’complexion; iuerry disposition; beloved' and respected.
D. in Tfhgives an indifferent;person, short, fleshy,-muscular; dark- •
brown or black'curling/hair; dark'complexion; disposition-quarrelsome, in
69
3ome instances malicious; of ingenious mind-.'
D in/ denotes a handsome person; oval face; bright brown hair;
sanguine complexion; disposition open and generous, passionate, ambi­
tious and fond of sports; usually fortunate.
D in d> represents low stature, and a weakly physique; thin face;
dark brown,, lank haix*.; weak in the knees; an unsettled character (unless
the Moon be well aspected).
D .in ks gives a middle-sized, corpulent body; brown hair; clear
sanguine complexion; disposition affable, inoffensive, kind, and irreso­
lute; mind ingenious; conduct good.
D in X describes' a short stature; fac© and body plump; complexion
pale; hair bright brown; inactivé easy disposition, given to the
pleasures of the table, merry, and "happy go lucky/'
■OBSERVATIONS O
N THE MOON'S ATFLIÛAÏÏON TO, AND SEPARATION
im i .-TH
E PIANETS .
3 '
.... If the Moon apply to Saturn, at birth, and increase^ in light,
it signifies widowhood to the mother, and much misfortune.
If the Moon increase in light; and apply to Jupiter, or.be
joined to him, .
.
i
t signifies rich, faithful, honest, and jovial persons---
unless. Mars be in square or opposition to her, for this would modify
the good, influence of Jupiter.
If the Iloon apply to Mars or be conjoined with him, in a
nocturnal geniture, it signifies crafty, violent-, dangerous persons,
often subject to be deceived; by day, weak, feeble constitutions, sub­
ject to diseases of the eyes and stomach, and likely to die a violent
death, .
If the Moon be carried to or conjoined with the Sun, 'in what­
ever part of the heavens it may fall, it signifies unhappy persons, un­
fortunate Or sickly. .
If the Moon be carried to Venus, or if the Moon be increasing
in light and conjoined with Venus, it signifies noble parents, but the
native may :be separated, from their affection, he will be fortunate, how­
ever; but if the Moon be decreasing, she signifies power and happiness
in youth, but subject to scandal, arid dissipated if Mars behold Venus
without the help of Jupiter.
If the Moon separate from Saturn and apply to Jupiter, it
signifies rich and happy persons,
full
If the/koon separating from Saturn and applying to Mars
signifies much sickness and infirmity, and the native will die in early
youth (if Moon be hyleg).
70
If the Moon separate from Saturn and apply tp the Sun, it
is very unfortunate, and signifies many calamities,0 and a liability
to lunacy, dropsy, etc.
The Moon separating from Saturn and applying to Venus, signi­
fies noble, happy, rich, and wealthy persons, but licentious; if the
Moon decrease in light it denotes gain, but dissipation also.
The Moon separating from Saturn and applying to Mercury, and
increasing, she signifies obscure persons, writers of libels, studious
of celestial sciences and the arts, good speakers, and physicians; but
if the Moon decrease in light, she impedites the speech, or hearing,
the body is sickly, cough,dropsy, and the colic result.
If the Moon separate from Jupiter and apply to Mars, in a
nocturnal geniture, and be increasing, it denotes magistrates, men in
power, but not free from danger and sickness.
The Moon separating from Jupiter and applying to the Sun, it
destroys the patrimony, causes the native to separate himself from his
parents, and become an exile or a captive (especially if Moon be in
Capricorn, Aquarius, Aries, or Scorpio).
If the Moon increasing or at the full, separate from Jupiter
and apply to a good aspect of Venus, !t signifies noble, powerful per­
sons, but they soon lose their parents; they gain by their waves' dowry.
If the Moon separate from Jupiter and apply to Saturn, and be
increasing or at full, it causes the native to be adopted by a stranger;
it gives tutors, or persons employed in watery places, sailors, etc.;
but if the Moon be decreasing, it signifies servitude, misfortune, cap­
tivity, frequent sickness (chronic) and misery, and, if it be a nocturnal
geniture, a violent death.
If the Moon separate from Jupiter and apply to Mercury, she sig­
nifies judges, collectors of money, interpreters of law, religious and
fortunate persons.
If the Moon separate from Mars and apply to the Sun, it signifies
very great evils, misfortunes, shortness of life, imbecility, and vio­
lent death in a strange land.
The Moon separating from Mars and applying to Venus, at full, or
increasing, denotes adulterous persons; also jewellers, painters, per­
fumers, dealers in metals, innkeepers, etc. (according to the nature of
the sign); if the Moon be decreasing in light, it signifies fortunate,
happy parsons, gaining wealth by female influence, but sometimes suffer­
ing disgrace through wantonness.
The full Moon separating from Mars and applying to Mercury in a
nocturnal geniture, signifies great persons in public authority, but
wicked and malicious; if the nativity be diurnal and the Moon at the
full, it signifies judicial condemnation and a violent death.
71
If the Moon separate from Mars and. apply to Saturn, it
denotes sluggish, dull persons, good for nothing; if the Moon he full
or increasing, destroyers of their estates, and vicious; if the Moon
be decreasing, it denotes privation, lunacy, epilepsy, and a violent
death.
If the Moon separate from Mars and apply to Jupiter, it sig­
nifies powerful, rich, fortunate persons; but, if she be decreasing in
light, it renders' the native vicious, and consequently unhealthy.
If the Moon, in a diurnal geniture, separate from the Sun and
apply to Venus, it signifies barrenness, hinders marriage, inclines to
vice; yet, in general, good fortune; in a nativity by night, it signi­
fies many wives, living in good repute, and gaining a fortune.
The Moon separating from the Sun and applying to Mercury in a
diurnal geniture, signifies danger to life, evil manners, atheistical
mind, etc.; in a nocturnal geniture, it signifies public notaries,
writers, inventors, students of occult science and mysteries, gainers
of estates.
Ihe Moon separating from the Sun,in a diurnal geniture, and
applying to Saturn, destroys the estate, separates one from his parents,
and brings him to want and misery, but in process of time he may gain an
estate by miserly economy; in a nocturnal geniture, it signifies want,
destruction of estate, much sickness and affliction.
The Moon separating from the Sun and applying to Jupiter by
day, signifies a good estate, good fortune, and happiness beyond measure;
in a nocturnal geniture, the native obtains an estate by his ovm indus­
try, travels early in life; is deceived and disappointed in youth, but
in age lives in high repute.
If the Moon proceed from the Sun to Mars, in a diurnal geniture,
it signifies sudden death, and the parents oftai die a violent death; the
natice is liable to blindness or defects in the sight; in a nocturnal
geniture, it signifies cruel, violent persons, their employment connected
with fire, iron, or metals, and subject to continual labour.
The Moon parting from Venus and applying to Mercury, if she
be increasing or at full, signifies stewards of noble women, and gaining
preferment by female aid; it also denotes'dyers, jewellers, armourers,
musician's, lovers of arts and sciences, but inclined too much to pleaaire;
if the Moon be decreasing,■it signifies vicious, abandoned persons, of
various employments.
The Moon separating from Venus and applying to Saturn, at the
full,.or increasing in a nocturnal geniture, gives a wife of infamous
character; -in a diurnal nativity, :
and the Moon decreasing, the native is
licentious, and-brings disgrace and ruin on himself.
If the Moon separate from Venus and apply to Jupiter, it signi­
fies noblemen, magistrates, and courteous, amiable persons; if the Moon
decrease, it signifies gain by the good friendship of ladies, happiness,
72
.
attainment of property or of' an .honourable office in the-"church.
The Moon separating from Venus and applying to Mars, in a
diurnal geniture, at full or increasing,'signifies misery, impris­
onment, or sudden death, through a love affair; in a nocturnal
geniture, it signifies cruel persons in great power, but subject
almost daily to dangers and mischances.
If the Moon be transferred from Venus to the Sun., it separates
the native from his parents through a bitter dispute, consequent
privation, troubles, and indiscreet attachments'; but after youth be
past, in process of time, he increases his substance, and easily
attains his desires.
If in a■diurnal geniture the Moon increasing separate from Mer­
cury and apply to Saturn, it -denotes deafness, stammering, or some
impediment in the speech; it gives employment as an interpreter,
or tailor, and a disposition to inquire into occult arts and sciences;
but if the nativity be by night, it signifies wateimen, or men
employed, about the water, and if malevolent stars afflict them, it
denotes imprisonment and ill-fortune.
If the Moon be transferred from Mercury to Jupiter, it signifies
great men, ambassadors, treasurers, stewards of noblemen, priests,
rich and happy persons.
If the. Moon be-increasing or at full and pass from Mercury to
Mars in a diurnal geniture, it signifies irreligious, perjured,
wicked persons, having a tendency towards- theft, fraud, and murder,
liable to die by the hand of justice: if it be a nocturnal geniture,
it signifies captains, governors of cities," men in power, but
offending-in divers ways, deposed, banished, or executed.
If the Moon separate from Mercury and apply to the Sun, it
signifies men of dull understanding, having an impediment in their
speech, deaf, poor, wandering and inconstant, yet in process of time
these evil effects will be qualified, and after youth be passed, .
they gain a
. livelihood by sundry employments.
If in a nocturnal -¿jeniture the full Moon separate from Mercury
and apply.to Venus, it. signifies men employed in a public capacity,
gaining credit and honour in all their actions, and increase of
happiness, orators, poets, gaining chiefly by the good offices of
ladies, artists, druggists, and jewellers, but living.moderately,
neither abounding nor ixi want, votaries of pleasure; in a nocturnal
geniture, the Moon decreasing and applying to Venus, signifies wealthy
persons, having the chief government over towns and cities (espec­
ially if the Moon and Venus be free from the beams of the Sun); in
a diurnal geniture the Moon decreasing and applying to Venus, and in
the tenth house it signifies religious persons, builders of churches,
prelates; in any other part of the figure this conjunction signifies
moderate estates, occupation in arts or with metals, perfumers,
engravers, choristers, students of celestial science and occult arts,
and gaining livelihood by such pursuits.
73
The Moon when afflicted in Aries, or afflicting the
hyleg therefrom, is held to indicate convulsions, lethargy, weak­
ness of sight, or pains in the knees. In Taurus, pains in the
legs and feet, tumours, intestinal obstruction or quinsy. In
Gemini, gout, surfeits, and obstructions. In Cancer, dyspepsia,
carcinoma, conbulsions, epilepsy, or dropsy. In Leo, affections
of the heart, quinsy, scrofula, and spinal complaints, In Virgo,
cholera, diarrhoea, colic, dysentery, obstructions, and debility.
In Libra, renal affections, and pleurisy. In Scorpio, affections of
the genito-urinary organs, smallpox, dropsy, and debility of the
heart. In Sagittary, sciatica, and intestinal affections. In
Capricomus calculus, gout in the lower extremities, etc. In
Aquarius, hysteria, and ulcers in the legs. In Pisces, cold taken
at the feet, dropsy, and effects of intoxication.
FOOTNOTES.
1. Dr. Goard says: "In felling trees for timber the ancients
have told us that it must be a winter work in regard to the Sun.
That oaks cut down in spring-time'mil presently rot. They teach
withal that it is of an infinite concern to add the Moon’s observa­
tion as well as the Sun's; Infinitum refert et Luvaris ratio, Pliny,
xvi, 39. The elm, the pine, the nut, and all other timber trees
must follow the same rule, that if in the felling you join both ob­
servations together, viz., the depth of winter, i.e., the winter
solstice and the last days of the Moon (interlunium) the stuff will
last to perpetuity." (Astro-I.Ieteorologica, 1699, p. 17). Montgomery
Martin's work on the Colonies records some very interesting facts
in regard to lunar influence. The ancients knw nothing of "dry rot",
but they, poor simpletons, believed in astrologyl
2. This refers to the increase of light of the Moon, she is
occidental when decreeing in light( i.e., after the full).
3. These are the (condensed) aphorisms of J. Angelus and
Regiomontanus-
- compiled at Venice in the fifteenth century.
4. At the birth of King Edward VII the Moon applied to (the
square of) Saturn, but was decreasing in light, Q,ueen Victoria was
widowed at 42 years.
5. At the birth of the linperor Francis Joseph of Austro-
Hungary, the Moon was separating from the conjunction of Saturn and
applying to the Sun in the XIth house in the sign Leo, and he suf­
fered defeat in Italy, in 1859, at Sadowa, in 1866, and lost his son
by a tragic death, and his Bapress by assassination. (Editor*s Note:
Subsequent to the writing of this book by Pearce, further calmities
befell him climaxing in the World War I.)
75
- - CHAPTER. X II .
■ THE PLANET: MERCURY :
"’Tis Jove's world-wandering herald, Mercury
Shelley.
Mercury is the chief significator, next to the Sun and
Moon, in genethlialogy.
■The cardinal number four in Hebrew, ARABO, is compounded
of. AR, light,"i.e, , the light or star, and RABO,.activity, business
or employment: thus, meaning "the active star,".or. "the star of
employment,V in allusion to. the docferine that Mercury rules over
business and employment, and influences activity of mi.nd and body.
Arabo means a finger, and also a loCust,
■ both influenced, astrolog-
ically, .
by Mercury. The name of the wandering Arabs •is taken from
this word, all persons born under Mercury's influence having a
Bohemian tendency, and being fond of moving from place to place. The
■root of the word RAB,..means to strive or contend in words, to dis­
pute, a well-known characteristic of mercurial'persons. •The word
ARABO., four,.alluded, therefore, to'Mercury, who rules over "Day
.four't (mercurii dies),".or Wednesday.
. The name of Buddha is formed from Budhuha or Budahu-
- the
•name of the planet. Mercury. Hermes was the-Greek name of. Mercury,
and the great Hermes Trismegistus, i.e., ter maximus, thrice great
by reason of his virtues and great learning, lived about the time
of Moses and is thought to be the same. Hermes in Greek means "the
interpreter of the gods," and Mercury was- ever represented as the
messenger of the gods. Homer, in his hyflh to Mercury, says^:—
... "Hermes, nothing'loth
'Obeyed the Aegis-bearer’s'Viill--.T-for.he­
ld able to persuade all easidyi"
The.sixth hieroglyphic in Mr. Upham's work on Buddhism^
represents Buddha as born of a virgin, this being an allusion to
the sign Virgo, the chief dignity and "house"of Mercury, or the
sign in which he has most power. The fourth hieroglyphic in the
same work, exhibits the twin- children of Buddha, an allusion to
the sign Gemini, the twins ("the pair" in Buddhist astronomy), the
.other house of’Mercury. The Hebrew BUD, which'signfies alone,
single, solitary, agrees in a remarkable manner with the-character
of Buddha, and also persons' b o m under the rule of the planet Mer­
cury.; such persons, being given to a contemplative or studious life,
were led to seek retirement and to dwell alone---"far from the busy
haunts of men."
The.late Prince Consort was born when the planet Mercury
was rising, in the sign Virgo.® His:
high- talents,- wisdom, and love
of retirement were in exact accord with the character.of the influ­
ence of Mercury. "I.n his early;y6uth," says hi3'biographer,^
"Prince .Albert was very shy, and he had long to struggle against
that feeling. He disliked visits from strangers, and at their
76
approach would run to the; farthest' copper of the room., and cover
his face with his hands; nor was it possible to make him speak a
word. If his doing so.was. insisted, upon;he resented to the utmost,
screaming violently."
Mercury in Gemini, Virgo or Sagittarius and in any aspect
with Jupiter (more particularly the conjunction and parallel of
declination) at birth, renders the native liberal,-generous, humane,
jovial, amiable, and of good mental capacity."The quartile and
opposition when formed between Mercury and Jupiter, are said to pro-
•duce ,
Ma wehk judgment, and an inclination to' view things through a
false medium:" in my opinion this is an. error,-for I have never found
an instance of its verity, and I am satisfied- that any aspect of
Mercury, or the luminaries, to Jupiteris better than none. If
Jupiter happen to have familiarity with Sathrn-, that observation
would, probably'; hp'ld good, but in such case, it would be due'to
Saturn's influence’vitiating to some extent-that of Jupiter.
Mercury in conjunction or evil "aspect with Mars, at birth,
the native is inclined to violence and rashness, yet- is he possessed
Of acuteness and discrimination; but when the' evil aspects of Saturn
also coincide, and when no assistance''-'is rendered by Venus or Jupiter,
he may descend to the level-of ¿-"‘
thief, •swindler, or murderer. Mer­
cury in conjunction or benefic aspect with Mars, at birth, the native
proves a first-rate-mechanic, or painter, or surgeon, brave, skilful,
ingenious, possessing a fund’of caustic humour,'a' penetrating wit, a
!talent'for mathematics.- -
'Mercury in conjunction with the -Sun is Said to destroy the
abilities of the person then bom, réhdering him shallow, superficial,
devoid Of good judgment, and, though qualified for business, incap­
able of the pursuit of the higher branches of science. This effect,
however, can only take place when Mercury is afflicted and receives
no assistance from the fortunes-— at least such is my opinion. Inas­
much as Mercury is never more'than128° distant from the Sun, no aspects
can be formed between those bodies, except the mundane and zodiacal
parallels. The mundane parallel, when there is more than 17° distance
between them, oftthe Sun and Mercury 'from the mid-heaven, is aaid to
cause "great and boundless ambition, and if the other parts of the
figure concur, the native may"rise to considerable eminence.B
’ ' 'When Mercury is in conjunction, paridee., or sextile with
Venus, the person then b o m is fond of poetry,' music, and drawing; when
,the conjunction happens in the'ascendant, and the Moon-separates from
good aspect of Venus and applies to Mercury, the native will prove
eminent in either music, poetry 6r painting. Mars assisting the
configuration, inclines the native to painting and sculpture. Robert
Burns was b o m with Mercury and Venus ascending in Aquarius. 1
Mercury in’good aspect' or parallel declination with the Moon
produces excellent abilities, and the native proves successful in
either literaturb or science, A benefic aspect of Saturn to this con­
figuration' is of great service in imparting to-the"native that applica­
tion and steadfastness of purpose-which are indiapeusahle to the
77
attainment of success and distinction, Mercury and the Moon in
'conjunction,--.or mutual evil aspect,^ the native, though possessing
great abilities.,.is .rather unsettled .^ Culpeper says that to under­
stand the hcaracter of a person born when the Moon and Mercury are
conjoined, you have only to look at a wedther-vane!
Whenever Mercury and the Moon are iveak, and-unconnected
with each other or the ascendant and one of them afflicted,- 'the
"person then born.is-very liable to mental derangement. Mercury being
a convertible planet, may, when"aspected’by evil planets, operate as
a malefic; and when aspected by the'fotiines, as a benefic. Notwith­
standing that this-is the well-known’and observed character-of Mer­
cury, ancient authors have declared— and some modern writers have
repeated it-
- that "he is in nature cold, dry,- and melancholy."
When strongly posited, at birth, ie. , when in the ascendant or third
house o,r in either .Gemini or yirgo, and more than '17° from the Sun,
Mercury produces the most pointed wit, ingenuity, and inventive
-genius.. -
-
■ When, ascending at, a birth, and free from the rays'of other
planets, he denotes a rather tall", Straight,- spare body; harrow face,
deep forehead, long, straight nose, eyes neither black’nor gray, thin
lips and chin,-.with but little beard, brown complexion; hazel or chest­
nut' coloured, hair; the extfemeties long and slender;' the walk quick
..and .energetic;-and.
the manners refined. It has been:stated that, "If
orientally posited (unless in Gemini) as regards the Sun,- the stature
will be shorter, with sandy"hair and sanguine complesdonsomewhat
sunburnt, the limbs and joint's large and well set, teth-small gray
eyes;, but if--occidental,, the complexion will be quite sallow, lank
body, small, slender limbs, hollow ¿yes, of a red-cast *
• and of a dry
constitution."
Mercury strongly posited, at a birth, the person will possess
a strong imagination and retentive'memory, will”
-be likely to become an
excellent orator or a good logician.. He will be given to the attain­
ment of learning, an encourager of the liberal art's, of a sharp, witty,
and pleasant conversation,"of an unwearying fancy, and curious in
pursuit of all natural knowledge;'"with'an inclination to travel or
trade into foreign countries. If bred to mercantile pursuits, he will
be ambitious o.f excelling' all others in the merchandise, and will prove
successful in. obtaining y/ealth. :
If Mercury be neither 'accidentally nor essentially dignified,
and be not in aspect to either of the fortunes, the native will be
wanting in.resource and effort, a talebearer, and,hardly capable of
acquiring,anything beyond, a superficial'knowledge- of any trade or
profession. ■ .." ' ■
Mercury.above the horizon, at. a birth, inclines to oratory;
below, to'arts, sciences, and occult studies.
Mercury governs the brain, intellect, tongue, hands and
feet. The diseases he produces are: mania, apoplexy, convulsions,
impediments' of speech, coryza and dry cough; His angel is Raphael.
-78
.
..MERCURY I
N
,IKE TWELVE SIGNS ,
9 in T. give?,'middle stature, spare and.angular;; long neck,
oval' face, light-brown curling hair, dusky, or brown complexion;
choleric disposition. . . .
. .
$ i n 'd describes a person of middle stature, full face, and
brown hair, swarthy'complexion; inert and obstinate in disposition.
$ in Jt represents a tall, slender, well-set person, swarthy
complexion, dark brown hair, hazel eyes, prominent nose, long hands
and feet; of great ingenuity and activity of mind,, a lover of science
and art, a good orator, well-calculated for a barrister, or author,
possessing a clear and incisive .intellect.
9 in 0 gives low stature., bad complexion, sad brown hair, thin
face, sharp nose, and small, eyes; erratic disposition.
5 in fl represents large stature, not corpulent but rather lean,
large prominent eyes, dark brown or black hair, swarthy complexion,
a prominent nose; a hast.y and proud disposition, ambitious, and apt
to be dogmatic..
9 inTI? describes a full stature, rather.above the medium height,
well-proportioned body, indifferent complexion, oval or thin face, .
.
.
dark brown or black hair, intellectual expression, and high forehead;
witty, ingenious, profound, and-active in disposition, one who read­
ily acquires knowledge., industrious.', a good orator, a great projector,
and' an able negotiator.
$ i n n gives a tall, handsome person, smooth, light-brown hair,
gray or blue eyes, sanguine complexion; a just and good natur^ and
disposition, a promoter of learning, and accomplished.
5 inltj, represents short stature, well-set, broad shoulders,
swarthy complexion,•sad brown hair curling and-bushy; one who is
subtle and careful of his own interests, fond of company and the
fair sex, but intellectual and capable of .acquiring knowledge, es­
pecially of chemistry,, medicine or engineering;.
■ $ i n / describes a person inclined to tallness, well-formed,
oval face, sanguine and clear complexion,- cbest.n.ur hair growing off
the temples, prominent Grecian nose; disposition impulsive, good-
natured, aiming at noble ends, *md fond of pleasure and outdoor games
and sport; a good equestrian. .
9 in-i denotes short stature, thin face,, brown hair, dusky com­
plexion, large nose, thick lower lip, may be bow-legged or lame;
of a peevish melancholy and nervous disposition, rather unfortunate.
9 in~ confers but.indifferent.stature, fleshy, • large face,
clear complexion, brown hair; ingenious, witty kind, and humane
disposition, love of research and invention.-.
5 inX -gives short stature,, b^own-hair, thin face, pale
79
complexion; disposition good-natured yet melancholy, and, in
some cases, addicted to strong drink.
FOOTNOTES.
1. Shelley's translation.
2. History and Doctrines of Buddhism.
5. See page 47.
4. Life of the Prince Consort, Vol. 1.
81
CHAPTER XI I I
THE PLANET VENUS
"Cynthiae’
’figuras émulâtur Mater Amorum."r-Galileo.
"The Mother of Love imitates the aspects of Diana."
• "Loi in the painted oriel of the Test,
Whose panes the sunken' sun incarnadines ,
• ■ Like a fair lady at her casement, shines
■ .■ evening star, the 'star of love' and rest."
-
- Longfellow.
Next after the Sun, says:Aberbanel, the ancient lathers
accounted Tenus to be the most propitious. It was early recognised
that Venus was the:chief cause of generation, and the mother of love'
the universal passion. Hence, her influence being held to be pro­
pitious'and'second only to that of thé Sun, this beautiful-planet
was especially worshipped throughout' the whole East, as it is
affirmed by Rabbi-Kapal Ben-Samuel. The worship of Venus led the
Turks to hold Friday(Venus's' day) in the same veneration that we
hold'Sunday. The stone (Bractan) which is set up at Mecca, measur­
ing four feet long by two feet broad, and said' by Gaffarel to be
only a- talisman; has engraved upon it the figure of Vénus with a
crescent.
In Hebrew SHISH, six, is an abbreviation of ASH-ISH, "the
star of-’
Being o'r Existence," the precise character of Venus. "On the
sixth day the Creation was finished, and Job.says "the morning stars
sing together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy." Venus in­
fluences music and singing; The influence of Venus was thus recog­
nized over the sixth day (Veneris dies) of the week.
The Greek name of Venus was Aphrodite, derived .from fero,
to bear, bring forth, or produce-
- and NOT (as the poets imagined)
’
from aphros, froth of the sea, etc. Venus' chief dignity is in the
watery sign Pisces, hence a fish was affixed to her statue. Her
"night-house" is Taurus, hence, ASH-TAROTH, "T’
he Star of Taurus,"
called Astarte, viz., Venus. As a modern writer^- has observed:
"Ignorance of the grand astrological fact that the s ign T&urus is
the house of Venus, and also the exaltation of the Moon, is at the
bottom of all the confusion of the learned world .when treating on
the’subject. This was one of the grand mysteries, which could not
be known or understood by any but the Chaldei, or first Eremasons,
who- took care to teach it to the Royal Arch Masons, only. This is
clear from the words of Godfrey Higgirt
s.,2 ,who says, 'The Masons, or
Chaldei, or C.uldees,’were the judicial astrologers at Rome in the
time of the Emperors. They could be of ,no small consequence, when
they were employed by Julius Caesar to correct the calendar.'"
Venus is the brightest planet of the Solar System. Her
orbit being, smaller than that o
'
f '
the earth, she can never appear
more than 48° distant from the' Sun. Uhen Venus has chief dominion
over the mind and disposition, she inclines to music, poetry, paint­
ing and sculpture, drawing, amusement, and dancing; she confers a
82
good-humoured, witty, Rein'd, and.'.charitable disposition. Men born
under the influence of Venus are general favourites-
- especially
with the fair sex— <bu.t.Ahey. are: rather deficient in firmness and
resolution. But if Venus be much afflicted, the very good nature
of- the. map. sometimes leads him into awkvard' scrapes.
Venus in the ascendant (near the horizon) at a man's
birth, strengthens his constitution,-; promotes his welfare, confers
upon him a good personality, depth of affection, a tender heart, and
a love of pleasure. -In person he.is, usually, handsome, well-formed,
but not tall in stature, of fair and clear complexion, bright spark­
ling eyes- of a dark hazel or black, hair bright-brown or chestnut,
shining and plentiful, generally has dimples in either the cheek or
chin, and sometimes-in both; voice musical. Women b o m with Venus
rising,^and unafflicted,-display .
t
h
e
.
, most amiable, engaging and
fascinating qualities,- they are very neat and elegant, and frequent­
ly very beautiful. If Venus be afflicted, there is a tendency to
dissipation. A friendly ray of Saturn to Venus is exceedingly use­
ful in steadying the character.. The sextile, trine, or par. dec.
of Jupiter with Venus, the .former being in the mid-heaven, and the
latter in the ascendant, not only-confers amiable.-qualities of mind*
5
and disposition, but.-good fortune also (unless the'Sun and Moon be
afflicted by Saturn). -..The .conjunction.of Venus and Jupiter in the
ascendant, at a birth, is .of similar import. .
Venus is said to govern the reins, spine, the tubili
seminiferi, the, neck, throat, and breasts. Her diseases are: those
affecting the spine, generative organs, and breasts, hysteria and i
diabetes; some, authors say. hernia and fistula also. Venus ig friendly |
to Mars. Her-angel is called Anael. • j
. >
' VENUS:' IN 1EE TWELVE SI-GNS. ,
.9 in T represents a person of middle stature, rather slender,
g ood complexion, light hair., with a mark, or: sear in the face; one
who is sensitive, merry, and. affectionate.
. ^ in ^ gives ,a comely, person, -short in stature, -fleshy, sanguine
complexion,.and brown hair; a mild.disposition, kind, humane, and
'very affectionate.
9 in Jt gives a stature inclined to tallness, slander, well-
formed.body, rather fair., intellectual..expression of features; a
loving, just,.humane disposition, and .good natural abilities.
9 in Q foims persons of short stature, .inclined to corpulence, *
round face, 'delicate or pale complexion,.
.
light hair; an inactive,
easy-going, and pleasure-loving disposition,; .
' 9 xn il designates a tall well-made person, a clear complexion,
round face, full prominent eyes, light flaxen hair; a disposition
somewhat hasty but soon appeased, generous, large-minded, having
proper pride and dignity.
83
9 in 1
1
? represents a tall well-proportioned body, sad brown
or black hair, dark sanguine complexion, oval face; in disposition
thoroughly amiable, aspiring, sensitive, .and active, endowed with
excellent qualities and conversational powers, often with eloquence.
9 i n û gives a tall, elegant person, brown hair, sanguine com­
plexion, often freckled, dimpled cheeks; one who is kind, affection­
ate, and generally beloved, vary artistic and clever.
9 in T
i
lrepresents a well-set, short, stout person, face broad,
complexion dusky, hair sad brown, curling, and plentiful; in dis­
position contentious, emotional, and affectionate, but inert.
9 in / gives a well-formed person, clear sanguine complexion,
bright sparkling eyes, oval face, brown hair; in disposition amiable,
"merry even to a fault," generous, humane, and very sensitive; and
clever; a general favourite, and usually fortunate.
° in 'c gives but a mean stature, pale sickly complexion, face
thin and lean, hair dark or black; in disposition good-natured, but
careful; voice musical; not very fortunate.
? in » represents a handsome well-proportioned person, rather
stout, light brown hair, clear and sanguine complexion; in disposi­
tion very courteous, kind, humane, and affable; one who is gifted,
and much admired.
9 in X gives middle stature, a fleshy body, moderately good com­
plexion, round dimpled face, brown or flaxen hair; in disposition
thoroughly good-natured, mild, quiet, and inoffensive, fond of
pleasure; generally fortunate.
"Blest Venus’
, thou the sea and fruitful earth
Peoplest amain. To thee whatever lives.
Its being owes, and that it sees the Sun."
The ancient temples of Venus crowned heights and headlands
at many places in Asia and Greece.
The moral conception of Aphrodite Urania-
- the "heavenly"---
as goddess of the higher and purer love^and fruitfulness was but
slowly developed in the course of ages.'*
The ancients found by long observations that the planets
Venus and Mars were "friendly", and this explains why the goddess
Aphrodite was associated with Are, Mars, both in worship and legend.
FOOTNOTES
1. R. T„ Morrison, R.N. (R.N* means "Royal Navy")
2. Anaealypsia, page 768.
3. Provided Mercury be configurated with them.
4. See the "Dictionary of Classical A n t i q u i t i e s p , 39.
85
CHAPTER XIV
: THE -PLANET MARSv:
. . «'Is it the- tend(
2
3
? star of love,'-
.The star of love and dreams?
Oh no-l from that blue tent above
A:
'hero's armour' gleams*"---
Longfellow.
The Hebrew, ASH-LESH, means" the Star of flame, or flaming
Star. SHELESH, the number thrOe, means, also,' a general or command­
er of an army; the third day of the week' is under the rule of Mars,
"the god of war," who influences all military men.
■ The red:deity, Mara, of-.the Buddhists, is evidently tliO'
planet Mars. ■ The. final letter a seams to be a'mere termination-; for
a vast number of other names have the.same terminal letter; and, if
we substitute -for it the European -final letter s
_
, we have the word
Mars, which planet is x
’
ed- in the heavens, and has always been repre­
sented- as a fiery-, evil planet. Mars was'drawn vdth a battle-axe
or spear in one hand, and a cock or horned goat in the other. This
shows that the Buddhist planet-deity Mar'a was Mars, the god of war,
.to.whom- the cock was dedicated;' the horned goat 'shows that'it was the
•planet.Mars, bdcause Capricoriius (the horned goat)-is-the sign-in
which Mars is exalted---his chief dignity. The Buddhists also
assigned, the third day of the week to Mars. (Attgaharu). -
The mythology of the Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans was origin­
ally a method'of handing down astrological'truths, from one genera­
tion to another, before the era .of letters, The hieroglyphics of
Buddha's- life and adventures■are similar in character to-the Egyptian
hieroglyphics, and may have been derived fraa the latter.• Buddhism
is nothing more nor less than a crystillisation of Sabeism, or -
planet-worship.
Mungula is the Hindu name of Mars. "He is painted of a red
or flame colour. His vahan (vehicle) is a ram. Those «who are born
under this planet are subject to losses and misfortunes; but it is
considered fortunate to engage' in battle--on Mungul-war, 'or Tuesday,
over which day he presides. Like many other martial personages,
Mungula is said to- be of a fierce and arbitrary disposition."'*-'
O .
The scape-goat which w
e
i
-
s sent into the Wilderness (Leviticus,
Chap, xvi.), bears a striking analogy to the astrological allegory
that the angel of Mars dwelt in a desert place. There is a curious
instance of the connection existing between astrology and the Buddhist
mythology in Bodhisatwa’s
. reply to Mara's, challenge to Buddha; .The
first three lines are thus rendered:"*-
-
"Thou, although supreme in the World' of Desire
Hast: no authority or power in the Spiritual world. •
Thou.art only acquainted;with the Wretched beings'in Hell."
Mars, in astrology, is friendly with Venus, hence the allusion in the
first line quoted above.
86
It has been supposed t4a
-
b Hercules typifies the Sun, his
twelve labours being symbolical 'of'the:
‘
passage of the Sun through
the twelve signs of the zodiac,, his extraordinary strength denoting
the potent effect of the sólár'ráys. It"'is not so, however. Her­
cules is the personification not of the Sun, but of the planet Mars.
Hyginus says, "The third planet is Mars,-which others called Her­
cules." Macrobius says', "Maro with the,ripeness of profound learning,
refers the Salii to,Hercules, because the priests consider that god
the same as Mars." The same is affinned in the "Menippea" of Varo,
entitled "The other Hercules," in which, after much discourse about
Hercules, this god was proved to be Mars. The star which all others
call Mars, is called Hercules by the- Chaldaeans.
Ptolemy says, "liars ascending, gives a fair' ruddiness to the
person, with large size, a healthy constitution,- blue or grey eyes,
a sturdy figure, and a moderate growth of hair, vrith a temperament
principally of heat and dryness. When'occidental, he makes the
complexion simply ruddy, and'-the personal figure of moderate stature,
'with small eyes; the body without hair, and the hair of the head
light or red, and.straight; the bodily temperament being chiefly dry."
Mars describes, when rising, one of a middle stature, strong
well-set body, rather muscular than corpulent, the face'round, the
eyes hazel, sharp, and piercing, a dark reddish complexion, the hair
sometimes red, sandy or flaxen; riot infrequently a'scar on the face
especially if he be ascending near the cusp; the ■
countenance full of
confidence and boldness, and the disposition activé and' intrepid.
Experience has shown me that some men are of large stature
who. were born with the planet Mars ascending, and others of short
stature, in every instance, irrespective of' sex, with but one excep­
tion, has the ruddiness of Mars been 'imprinted either on the complex­
ion or the hair, often in both. In trie case of trie lady who is an
exception to the rule, Mars"was'rising'in Sagittarius at her birth, in
sextile to Jupiter, Venus being in (mundane)'sextile to the ascendant
from the third house and the sign Pisces.
The Martialist is remarkable for acuteness and perception,
an incisive intellect, but possessing some rashness as well as judg­
ment. He is possessed of great mechanical skill, high courage,
having a contempt for death, impatience of control or submission,
and but little respect for social and in some cases moral laws' when
they-interfere with his liberty of action.
A good'aspect of Mars to the Sun, ¿loan, or Mercury, is
.necessary to produce "pluck," fesolution, and self-reliance-—
qualities which aire so greatly needed in the battle of life, when
distinction and success,áre to be won. Persons devoid of martial
influence are mean-spirited, dejected, helpless creatures. Evil
aspects of Mars to the slgnificators are apt to producé evil qual­
ities, such as dissimulation, revenge, obstinacy, and violence.
Mars-men make excellent soldiers, surgeons,' chemists,
' butchers, iron-
workers, cutlers, etc.
87
Mars. ,
was termed by.the.ancients the lesser infortune, in
contradistinction to Saturn, who was called the greater infortune.
It is found that the effects of Mars’ influence by"direction" come
certainly and closely..to time. Mars is, in nature, hot and dry,
and the instigator of quarrels and war. He is said to. rule the
left ear, head, face, sense of smell, the imagination, reins, gall,
reproductive organs, kidneys, etc. His diseases are the smallpox,
acute fevers, measles, scarlatina, erysipelas, jaundice, diabetes,
.and carbuncle; accident’
s; burns, gunshot woûnds, ’
wounds in battle,
surgical incisions, haemorrhages, etc. His place in a nativity or
solar revolution is held to be very unfortunate.
Then Mars is rising or oriental of the Sun, .at a-nativity,
the native will be above the middle stature, very hairy,:and of a
clearer complexion. When occidental, the native will be.short, of
a ruddier complexion, a small head, with yellow hair, and a dry
constitution.
The .angel of Mars is called Samael.
. / W , #'MARS IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.
d i n T represents middle statute.,, well-set body, big-boned,
swarthy complexion, "beetling brows," light or red curling hair;
countenance fierce and austere; mind and disposition valorous,
inrepid, confident, enterprising, ambitious, and war-like, one who
gains preferment and distinction in martial pursuits. •
;
d in# makes the native rather short, corpulent, of swarthy
complexion, a scar in the face; in disposition vicious, profligate,
and:perfidious (uniess.Mars be well aspected).
d inK describes a tall person, well-made,, of sanguine complex­
ion, dark brown or black hair (red, if Mars be--near Aldebaran); mind
and disposition very ingenious, but fickle; and, through frequent
changes of residence and employment, the native is likely to prove
unfortunate.
d in ©was.said, to produce "short .stature, an ill-made, mis­
shapen-body; thick brown hair; mind and disposition contentious,
unamiable, not highly gifted, and the native is usually unfortunate."
This is much overdrawn.. . . . . . .
d in £1‘ signifies large, stature, a muscular and well-made body,
ruddy or sunburnt complexion., large, prominent eyes,
.
.flaxen or
sandy hair; disposition choleric, hasty, free, magnanimous, and-,
proud, delighting in out-door exercise and sport. .
d inT? designates a middle-sized person, dark broxvn or black hair,
dark ruddy complexion, a scar or blemish in the face;-.-in disposition,
nervous, irritable, mutable, conceited, and-impatient of subjection;
one who.is not very fortunate.
d, in-; represents a well-proportioned..person, .tal-1 , and command­
ing; oval face, "sanguine complexion, countenance full of expression
88.
and, vivacity;
. in disposition, luxurious,;-fond of personal adornment
and voluptuous-«. - •. ,,
v -
j
° inT:[ gives a xvell-set,
:muscular, square built figure, in­
clined ;to corpulence, a broad face■
,
.swarthy complexion* black..-
curling-hpir, countenance bold and re.solute;. temper fiery and
. revengeful.;, one who possesses.genius*.well-fitted for a commander,
or surgeon, successful in his undertakings and of invincible
courage. (Lord Nelson was born with Mars exactly rising in Scorpio.)
Liable to hernia. .
o
' in/ gives a rather tall, well-made body, compact and felshy;
. completion.-sanguine., .hair brown .-and growing off the temples, a fine
forehead, quick eye; in disposition jovial, martial, self-reliant,
rash, large of soul, generous*, active, enterprising, ambitious of
renown; one who is;;fond-of outdoor exercise and sport; liable to gun­
shot wounds, and hernia.
o
' in "^represents a mean stature, rather lean; bad complexion,
thin face, small head, black lank hair; one who is very ingenious,
witty, penetrating, courageous,, commanding, and generally successful.
o’ irf'v gives a well-set, middle-sized-body; fair complexion,
sandy hai3
$
;
- disposition turbulent, controversial, unruly.; and not
fortunate. -
0 in Hgives but a small:
stature, porpulent body; indifferent
complexion, light brown or sandy hair; in disposition artful, mis­
chievous, not very .industrious, prone to excesses and. quarrelsomeness.
Mars, when .configurated with Mercury,.invariably sharpens the
intellect. As before observed, Lord Nelson was b o m with Mars rising
- in Scorpio; I have -known several clever surgeons who were born with
Mars rising in-.Aries, ,
"Virgo, Sagittarius, Scorpio, and Pisces, respec-
.-tively.
When Mars afflicts the »'hyleg,” at birth, from the sign Aries,
the health is too likely to suffer from feverish ailments, congestion
of the brain, or apoplexy. Mars in Taurus causes, throat affections,
bronchities, and calculus. In Gemini,eruptions of the skin. In Cancer,
.haematernesis, and if in quantile or opposition, or conjunction with
Saturn, abscess of the breast. In leo, hypertrophy of the heart, or
kidney disease. In Yirgo, intestinal irritation,etc. In Libra, a
liability to diabetes. In Scorpio, hernia, calculus, and cystitis.
In Sagittarius, sciatica, or fracture of the thigh, or gunshot woundr.
In Capricornus, gout in the knees, or synovitis. In Aquarius, eczema,
or gout in the .legs.- -In Pisces.,- gout in the feet. .
-
100 MOTES*
.
;
1
.
, -Coleman1s Mythology of the.Hindus. ,2. ;
.In thibet the same
rite was practised, 3. De Sig. Coeli, 2, page 80. 4,-
- blank.
.... 5. The Duke :of .Connaught -was b o m with Mars :
-
r
ising in Cancer,
and he is neither short in stature nor deformed; but..,-fortunately,
Mars was in sextile aspect with Jupiter. The poet Byron had Mars in
the ascendant, in..Cancer,, a;t t
i
1®
-moment of-his birth-— at two o' clock
■
: P*m -
. ' . ■ . r-
- x
"
J . ' . f -chapter ; ; ..... .
' •
• ; THE PLANET'.JCP ij^R . ' '/
«-----Jupiter, the lustrous, lordeth now
- 'And‘
‘
t^‘
e'daifci
worfcj•'complete of preparation,
'
'' ' Hé1'
draws by fèïc© into the. realm .of light."
• . S ch ille r* s .HALlifiN&ÎSIN ' :
.
. . " The Hebrew CHffliASH, or the' cardinal number five, affixed
to the fifth day of the week (Jovis dies) Thursday, is evidently
formed by CHHvi,
. warmth, and ASH, a
- star, meaning "the star of ■
'
warmth,.the exact character of Jupiter,"- "in whom," said Claudius
Ptolemy,, "warmth .is predominant." By.reversing the. fiist' letter
we have MESCHEQHj' to anoint with-oil, the root, being cognate with
MECH, fat; whence the term MESCHICH, the annointed, the "Eessiah';"
because anointing with oil was part' of the ceremony of thé investi­
ture of .priests as well as kings. Here we have a reference to the
influence of.lùpiter over priests, religion, and-holy.things; and
-olive oil .was .generally- employed, because the. olive whs held, to
be under this planet’s influence'. Again,-SHEMACH, fprmeh ffdtn.
*
' CHaiASp ^y reversing the first and ..last, letters, .signifies '
.
ï
.
o
ÿ
,
. and
is a direct corruption of ASH-lIACfl, literally.."The Star of'"Joy,"
which is the emphatic title of Jove, whence we derive jovial, jolly,
joy, etc. Here is ample evidence that' the word five alluded to the
day of. Jupiter,.
.
w
h
o rules "Day five."^
<•
•■
*’
•
*
'
«
.
. • The'character of Jupiter! s influence is the same all
over the world. 'This planet had been deified and. worshipped.under
several names, but has ever been regarded as .a mj,ld. and benevolent
deity,; the ..character of.Vishnu in Buddhism. The chackra, or"
< .thunderbolt,.of Kara (Mars)- i
'
s -also common to Vishnu .(Jupiter )
,
demonstrating, that it was -èa-rly ••'observed- th.at these- twb' planets
are the .chief'.causes of thunder, and. it ,1s a fact that when they
are configuratèd or c-onjoined there-is. more heat and Violent; thunder
than at other times. This was the opinion of Pliny.' The Buddhist
name of Jupiter Was Braspaty*or ■Braspatia, and. ha was held to rule
the_ fifth day" of thé week (Thursday). .
' The .more modern Hebrew name -of -
Jupiter, was Tsedeq,“ ''
Justice, because of the:-just character of persons born.under his
influence. GAD, as before remarked, was also-a Hebrew'name'of
.
.
.Jupiter, to which Aben Ezra bears testimony, for he says that'the
Targum expressly 'retained this Word as being the most -proper for
expressing' this star. '
■ *
:
• '
-
The Jupiter man is easily distinguishable.by his gener­
osity, sincerity, and courtesy of manner. He is manly and noble,
and as fa,r. removed'from;the ne-fvous manner of-..thq Saturnine, as
from the .boldness of the Martialist character...; • - . .,
VJhen Jupiter is in good aspect with. the;luminaries, or
ascending, at a
. birth, he confers a sound, healthy‘constitution, of
great vitality, and capable-of withstanding the,-.effects of very
90
evil "directions." When posited' '
i
n
* the‘
'
‘
tenth house, and near the
upper meridian he coni’
ers-honcjur.and dignity; on merchants, great
success in trade and speculations; and generally raises those born
in poverty to comparative wealth.
" ■
•
' r'1
. .... .
, At the -birth 'of ;
H, M. Queen Vic'f-eritiy Jupiter was in the
tenth .
j
i
o
i
i
s
'
é’(iièr^dian} .'^'At the-birth of Eing Edward VII, Jupiter
was ascending and 'in'séStile aspect with Venus.
' '
.
‘
"/'When Jupiter is-in the ascendant of a
- nativity, he produces
ah erbct stature rather àboye middle height,- a handsome' rosy c
o
m
.
-
?
plexfon,"oval'face,-'high forehead*, •large gray eyes, soft, thick,'
browh hhir,.short heck ; capacious-chest-, broad shoulders, strong
arid wéll-proportioned limbs. The native is sober- and manly., i
l
l
'
-
.
.
1
(
address",;
"and of-excellent manriers. His-disposition is good-
;
- amiable,
generous, faithful, prudent, just, honest, religious,: and liberal,
’
"hating all.mean'and sordid actions.
O*
' * •
.• ' ' ' * • - ■ *,
v «
.
.
.
" ' Jupiter is considered-a-masculine, hot, moist, airy,,
social planet, the author of'temperance, justice, and-’
moderation;
and hé is.termed’the greater fortune. He'is'said to govern, the lungs,
'the;blood, and 'viscera; and his diseases are such as -affect thos
organs,.and plethora. The name of his-angel is •■Se'deki'el, or Zadkiel.
• -TOPITER IN THE T-JELVE-SIGNS-'
'
' .
2[ i n T designates a person of middle stature, of a rosy com­
plexion; light brown' or-flaxen hair ;'piercing eÿès; a''high nose;
oval face,' subject to pimples ; disposition noble, free, generous,
with'becoming pride,-'courteous, and polite.'
- 2[/ih' Ogives'middle stature-, -a weil-se.t, compact, strong-body;
swarthy complexion, brown rugged hair, inclined to curl or frizzle,
round face., not handsome; disposition good-,-manners amiable, judg­
ment sound, and temper benevolent and humane'; addicted to pleasure.
'% in J
i
' forms a well-composed, rather tall person, sanguine
complexion, brown glossy hair-, full- handsome eyes; manners grace­
ful and obliging, disposition generous, but somewhat fickle, a
great1 admirer of the' fair-sex, a lover of1
'science -and art ; but if
% be near any of the violent fixed stars -oT Gemini the disposition
will be somewhat rash, and unstable."
1 2J
. in:
£? gives middle-stature, pale complexion, fragile appear­
ance, dark brown hair, oval face; disposition -busy, loquacious, fond
of maritime pursuits, but may be lacking in courage unless «
? aspect
2J
. or the luminaries.
% in A represents :
a!strong,-"ïobust- constitution!'; tall,-well-
made body; light-brom or'yellowish hurling-hair * -prdnii-neht eyes,
sanguine complexion; a noble-minded, courageous, ambitious, and
magnanimous-person. ;- - -
■ -1 '
-
2)
j in Tf gives à :full-sized" person ¿-:
wèTl made,.- oft en" handsome ;
91
brown or blackish hair; sanguine but not fair complexion; in dis­
position ambitious, excitable, studious, industrious, and specula­
tive.
2J
. in — confers complete symmetry in form and figure, good
stature; oval and handsome face, rosy complexion, light brown hair,
large eyes; disposition mild, fascinating, obliging, and fond of
pleasure.
2{
. in f
i
t makes the body compact, stout, middle sized, and
robust; fleshy face, dull complexion, dark curling bushy hair; a
lofty, resolute, and ambitious character; fortunate upon the sea
and in the practice of medicine, surgery, or chemistry.
2
1.in / represents a tall, upright, well-made, handsome person;
sanguine complexion, fine clear eyes, oval'face,"chestnut hair, thick
board; manners cdr.rteo^s srxUhigkly accomplished, disposition generous,
free, just and humane, very fond of horses, hunting, and all out-door
sports and exercises.
2j
. in dS gives but a mean stature, small head, pale complexion,
lean face, little beard, dark hair; disposition rather harmless and
indolent; a person usually unfortunate.
21 in Ogives middle stature, compact, curpulent body; fair
complexion, brown hair, disposition cheerful, obliging, kind,
humane, just, busy and not extravagant.
2[ in X signifies middle stature, a full fleshy body; dark
complexion, light brown hair; disposition eminently good, studious,
and kind; talents of a high order; one who is fortunate upon the
seas.
FOOElOTE
1. See Zadkiel's Almanac for 1849, page 56, »'Origin of the
Days of the Week.*'
i
93 - .
. r CHAPTER XVI
THE PLANET SATURN
"The. empire of Satumus is gone by;
Lord of tiie secret birth, of things, is he;
Withiii the lap of earth, and in the depths
Of the imagination dominates;
And. his are all;things that eschew the light."
— Schiller's WALLENSTEEN.
The ancient inhabitants of India, Phoenicia, and Egypt,
seem to have studied very carefully the character of Saturn's in­
fluence, and their esoteric doctrines: comprise the very essence
thereof. The root of. the name Saturn is evidently the. ancient .
■Hebrew term SATER, to hide.or conceal.
■SHEBO., the ¡'cardinal number seven, is composed of ASH,, a
.-star, and.SHEB, -old. age; thus expressing the.:
chief character of
.Saturn as "the star /of. old.-..age.", SHEBO signifies, also, -to b
e
.
;
.
.
.
full or have plenty, in,allusion to Saturn's rule over the.produce
of th,e.:earth; /just as the Latins had■SATUIiQ, -to sate or saturate,
from Saturnus. In allusion to this power of the star, of agriculture,
recognised by all astrologers, TEirgil calls .
a sickle "Saturni deus
curvus"---the crooked tooth of Saturn, xvhence , the planet's sym­
bol. SHEB, to return, or to restore, is applied, (I Sam. vii., 17)
..to the M D of the year^ and its beginning again; 30.it implies the
end Of a week of days, and its beginning again. It also signifies
"hoary hairs," which are under Saturn's influence. Here is ample
proof that, the word SHEBO (seven) had reference to Saturn, the
ruler of "Day seven," or Saturday.
..The other.name of the ;
planet,t
KRONOS, appears to have
originated from the Hebrew word KRON, a horn---an emblem of power
in the East.
Moses decidedly set apart Saturn's day as the sacred or
Sabbath day, it being dies infaustus, or an unlucky day for the
■beginning of any'work. .
.
.In Scotland no one will-marry■on a Saturday.
The Chaldees observed that Saturn when potent at a nativ­
ity rendered the person then born ."mystical," and "confederate in
secrecy." - Sater:
,or Seater signifies the^god of secrecy.. The same
term in the Chaldee signifies to destroy or demolish; and, it being
■observed that .infants.;bom when Saturn was in power, and elevation,
almost invariably, died in-infancy, .the fable, arose that Sa-jiurn,.
devoured his own. children. The .priests, with the add of the poets,
.personified the doctrines they taught, and the .-truths, they'learned
by experience and observation, in fables and.,apologues .before the
invention of letters. • .... .
.
. .
.
.
.
. .
.
. .
.
. ,,
Lempriepe .says: "Saturn ,always .devoured, hia.pons a
,
s
,aoon
as bom:" "It was usual to offer human victims on hi’
s altars.:"
again, "The god is generally represented as an oJLd man, bent through
94
;V/; y
age and infirmity. In his left hand he holds a child, which he
raises up, as if instantly.'tp./deygur, ff .
'
b
i
-
p
r
The Hindu .name,"of '.the planet Saturn '
is *Sani (the Buddhist
name is Henafiura).. **He is'descrfbbd.of'a 'dark' colour, and clothed
in black. His vahan is by "some called a
''.'black'vulture, or raven.
He:
.is old, ugly.,. lame, of an evil ..disposition, has long hair, nails,
and teeth, and is of the, siidra (husbandmen)' caste. It is unfortun­
ate to be born under this planet, and the ills of life are ascribed
to his influence, as he is supposed to be skilled in all kinds of
wickedness. He. presides over the day.of the week Sanis-xvar, or
Saturday,"2' "
, ' ; ' . ;
The influence of Saturn 'is the'moSt lasting and--malignant of
all the planets.' Â modern author^ ha's aptly contrasted the influ­
ences of Lars and Saturn, thus: ’
liars may be' compared'tô a fever,
violent indeed, but short in its duration; while Saturn resembles a '
consumption, which, though hardly perceptible in its progress, is
hard to be averted by any effdrt' of human Skill." ‘If placed-'in the
mid-heaven at a
' nativity, Saturn, Unless extremely well aspectèd,
eventually causes'ruin or disgrace,
.mostly, A similar effect ré­
sulte. from the. affliction by Saturn' of both, the 'Sim and'Moon;' ahd
.
..in this case, if either luminary be' hyleg, the infant; lives but'a
short time, tifë closer'the aspects the shorter'; its life.'
'’•, , 'When Saturn is exa'ctly on the upp'er or lower rileridian,
ascendant, or descendant,' the ascendant being hyleg, and'having no
assistance "from" the.
'fortunesthe' infant then born seldom lives long.
Saturn ascending subjects; the native to blows, bruises,
falls, broken bones, and other accidents; to nervous' affections,'
catarrh,, rheumatism, and debility. Saturnine people are melancholy,
hypochondriac, penurious, secretive, and fond of solitude. They
are capable of great endurance, and are noted for their patiences
as well as for their obstinacy; they are also bashful, firm in
friendship, but strong in enmity, grave, austere, often ascetic,
and very stupid if.Saturn afflicts Mercury.
Saturn’s benefic aspects to Mercury and the Sun and lloon,
■confer prudence, patience,, subtlety, and faithfulness on the native.
He is not given to change, and 'will be likely to remain in. one
place or one employment for 'the whole of his, life; and he yn.ll prove
fortunate in mining operations, agriculture..,'*and building.'
Saturn ascending produces' a middle .stature, a swarthy or
■ .pale complexion, small black déeply-set eyes,, lean face, broad fore­
head, lowering..brow, .thick nose and lips, his head'and shoulders
Stooping, large■ears,, broad- shoulders, black or dark brown lank hair,
thin beard, small and lean thighs ënd legs. If well.dignified,
(ie., in Libra, Capricorn, or Aquarius), the native will possess
acute perceptive facilities,, strong imagination, .and great applica­
tion; in disposition .and manners,, .he will be austere,, reserved, and
■taciturn. ,
. ,
r .
.
. .:
Claudius Ptolemy virote that
95
"Saturn, when oriental, acts on the personal figure by
producing- a yellowish complexion hnd a-.goodvconstitution; with
black' and curled hair, a broad and stout c h e s t e y e s of ordinary
quality, and a proportionate size‘
-of body, the temperament of which
is compounded principally of moisture and cold. Should he be
'
■occidental','’
’
he-.makès the personal figure black or dark, thin and
small, x*;ith scanty hair on the head; the body, without, hair, but
well shaped; the eyes black or dark; and the bodily temperament
consisting chiefly:of.dryness and cold."4
Saturn is.said to govern the bones, spleen, teeth, joints,
and right ear,’and those born under his rule are said to have bad
teeth,, and. to...s-uffer greatly with toothache. He. is also said to
govern the memory. '.His .diseases* are such-as proceed."from, taking
cold, obstructions, all nervous disorders, melancholia,,., epilepsy,
.ague, black jaundice, catarrhs, the various forms of consumption,
atrophy, fistula,' leprosy,- palsy, -apoplexy;
;
'dropsy',•etc.
’■ 'SATUTfi III HIE riHLVH SIGNS'- ’■ • '! -
.
in T represents middle stature; :
a;
-ruddy complexion, full
face,'- little beard,1dark histir, deep voice,:large eyes; disposition
quarrelsome', fretful, and:austere. . - -■ ,
. , î
j
. in.b"-
.giyes middle stature; dark: complexion,, rough .dark hair,
disposition avaricious., secretive.,,-and envious.
Î
2 inji. gives à. tall and fairly well'-prdportioned body;- oval
face., dark complexion, though sanguine,' hair black or dark barm;
mind ingenious, c
but crafty; disposition'perverbe, selfish','and'
austere, -
r :
h in G represents a weak, infirm, 'deformed body, of small
stature; face, pale, -thin, and of.sad expression, hair sad-brown,
eyes languid, dull and heavy.;, disposition reserved.
and unsociable.
.•Ï
2 .in PI gives moderately large stature,' broad strong shoulders;
hair brown, .countenance austere,, eyes deeply set; disposition pas­
sionate and brooding, yet true to' a friend. ' . /
. ’:
Ï
2 in TJdesignates a tall, spare body; hair black or very dark
brown, and plentiful; face long,-■thin,-and of grave appearance, a
long head; 'disposition melancholy, reserved, nervous,; -speculative,
and avaricious. :
: :
h in ¿i gives a tall, and fairly good-looking person;; hair auburn
or brown; face. oval,, nose and.forehead prominent,.complexion toler­
ably clear; disposition „-proud, contentious, argumentative,.-and may
be extravagant,
in T
i
lrepresents a short, square', and muscular body; black or
dark hair, bushy; dark complexion,
- plain face, prominent nose; dispos­
ition petulant, subtle, inconstant, and envious; mind ingenious-, pro­
found, and clever; unfortunate on the sea.
^ . in/ gives good stature, well-proportioned and handsome per­
son; hair brown.-beard thin, complexion sanguine,, eyes deeply set,
96
prominent nose ;.---dis.ppsitio:
n affable ^“obtìgingj-gefìerous ¿ honest and
upright, merciful to an-enemy, ana constant'to-d friend, profuse, in
•promises 'through^;,excess of good nature.' •
fj.in -
5
5
-produces low stature', a thin ungainly.body;
. sallow com­
plexión-,.. email,- eyes, blackish hair;' disposition peevish., covetous,
and discontented,; due, largely,.to bad health; mind. Ingenious.
^ in zz gives large stature, corpulent strong body; hair dark
^brown; cpmplexion good, teeth distorted; disposition sober, manly,
graceful, and courteous;■mind acute-and ingenious..
T
j in K gives low: stature, corpulent body; dark hair, pale com­
plexion; disposition fickle, merry for a Saturnian, and very care­
ful and cautious..- ,• ■
Saturn when occidental in Aries and afflicting the Sun., Moon,
or ascendant, is said to indicate a-liability.to. deafness, toothache,
and nasal catarrh..,., In Taurus, bronchocele and bronchial and láryngeal
affections. In G-emini, rheumatism-of arms and shoulders, and dis­
orders o
f
-
,the blood. In Cancer, pulmonary phthisis, asthma, and can--
,
• c
-
e
,
r of. the ,breast. In Leo-, affections .of the heart, spine, and liver.
In Virgo, phthisis ab'domihalis', enteric-fever,, and disorders ,pf the
bowels. In Libra, disorders of-the kidneys .and..rheuinatism. In
Scorpio, affections of the :
genito-urinary, organs, haemorrhage, palsy,
gout and fistula.. In Sagittary, sciatica, gout, and hip-joint
disease. In Capricorn, gout of the lower extremities, hemiplegia,
.and rheumatism; 'In Aquarius, deafness, .'toothache, quinsy and cramp.
'In'Pisces,, scrofula, ulcers on the feet, dropsy, and marasmus.
Dante, CONVITO, II, li, malees the planet Saturn thè symbol
of,Astrology. He says:—
"The. heaven, of Saturn has two properties by- which,It may be
compared to Astrology. . T
h
e
.
-
,first is'th'e slowness of its: movement
through the twelve signs; for its rebolution requires twenty-nine
years' and more. The second is that, .
i
t- is the highest of all the
planets. And these -two- properties are- in Astrology; for in complet­
ing its circle, that -is in learning i;t, a great space of time' passes;
■both on account,of the.experience necessary to judge rightly in it.
And, moreover, it is the highest-of all, for, as .-Aristotle says at
the beginning pf his treatise on thè Soul, science is of high, nobil­
ity from the'nobleness of its■subject, and -from its certainty; and
this, more than any of the above-mentioned is noble and high, from
its noble and high subj.ect, .which is the movement of the heavens;
and high and noble, from its .'certainty, which is without any defect,
as one that proceeds. from a most perfect and.regular source. And
if any one thinks that there is any defect in it, the defect is not
on the side of the Science, but as Ptolemy says, It comes from-our
negligence,, and to that' it should be" attributed..''^: ' _r.:
'' .Íí DOÍNOTÍS ' ... . :
1. Claudius Ptolemy’
says, "Saturn, Moving:
in'the last sphere, regu­
lates the final old age." ;-
2
.
.
- Coleman's Mythology of the Hindus.
3.': Zadkiel, Handbook .of.Astrology. Voi.I, p. 17. 4. Ashmand's
translation, p. 149. 5. Vide "The Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri,
translated by Henry Nads'worth Longfellow." p. 680.
97
CHAPTER, XVI I
• ■
' V ‘-
s■ *■' ■' ■■■■
■ THE PLANET URANUS
"Full often learn the art to know
' O f 'future weal, or future woe,
By word, or sign., or star."'— -Scott
Uranu's 'was discovered on the 13th of March’
, 1781/ by Sir
Uilliaia Herschel, and was first called the’GEORGIUM SIDUS'or
Herschel,' names which have fallen into "disuse, and m s unknown tb
the'ancients. His influence’is found td 'be' very powerful'in nativ­
ities when he is in an angle or in aspect to the Sun or Moon. The
’
existence of TJramis having been unknown to the ancients accounts .
for most of the errors of the. old writers on nativities. ' ’
.
. .
.
.
The singular’death of Aeschlyus was very probably due to
.the influence of Uranus being conjoined with 'that of Saturn or Mars.
It had b'een foretold to Aeschlyus that he would be in danger of
death by the fall of a house or other building about a certain
(named) period. He, in order to avoid the'threatened danger, went
away from,all buildings, to pass his time in the fields until the .
evil influence should b.e passed over. Aeschlyus was killed, while
sitting in the fields,, by the fall of a tortoise which an eagle "
dashed against his" bald pate, probably laistakihg it for a stone, '
,
and, desiring, to break the shell thereon. The remarkable'nature o'f
the death induces modern astrologers to surmise that the planet
Uranus was '
a joint'cause of it. If so, the astrologer who'foretold
the. death of Aeschlyus could not predict the nature of it so
'approximately as if the existence of Uranus and the peculiar char­
acter of his influence had been known. v
Godfrey Higgins relates the following circumstances:— -
"Soon after the discover of the last of the primary planets
(Uranus), an astrologer called on a friend of the author’s, who was
well known to be a skilful Calculator, and requested him'to calculate
for him the periodical motions .of the newly-discovered planet; ob­
serving, it was very probable that the want of the knowledge and use
of its motions was the'cause that, in judicial astrology, the pre­
dictions s
o
. often failed.
If Uranus be ascending at a nativity',, he produces great
eccentricity/ ana indpenaence of thought' and opinion. 'Then free
from the rays' Of evil' planets, his influence 'is not wholly evil, for
persons b o m under his influence 'exhibit a great love of truth; they
are remarkable for a 'love, of romance', a tendency to Bohemianism, a
love for antiquarian researches, metaphysics, and occult sciehce.
Uranus seemS' to'be very inimical to conjugal happiness, for'even good
aspects to the Sun, at’birth,' delay marriage or prevent it 'entirely,
to woraOn; and.his conjunction, quartile, or opposition,' with the Moon
seems to cause'unhappiness in-love and marriage, to’men, or delays
their marriage. •
'
98
When Uranus becoratefe*¿tatl®nary-:
near the place of the Sun
or Moon at birth, or in evil aspect to either, strange and unex­
pected events ensue, and- generally danger :
td or death of a relation.
His good aspects at birth, or by direction, produce sudden
events of an advantageous nature, and often in a manner quite un­
looked-for. If U'rarius be posited near the-cusp of the second house,
at birth, and in evil aspect to the Sun or Moon, the person then born
is liable to experience sudden, strqnge, and severe pecuniary losses,
and he should Over avoid speculative transactions. If-posited near
the cusp of the VIIIth house, the property of the .partner in marriage
either will be almost nil, or be diminished by some strange mischance.
■ - ilhen Uranus id located in .the Xth house and.near the merid­
ian at birth, the native generally either loses one,of his parents
early in life*'or makes an unfortunate marriage. He.or she is subject
to sudden and strange reverses of fortune (unless Uranus be well as­
pects! by the fortunes)', and suffers from speculation. If posited in
the’IVth house, and near the lower meridian, the father of the. child
then born usually dies early, and the latter part of the life of the
child is sad or unfortunate.
King Victor Emaanuel I of Italy was born when Uranus .was
ascending in the1sigh'Sagittarius, and in trine aspect to Venus.. The
ex-Q,ueen Isabella,' of Spain, was■
b o m with Uranus ascending in the
7th deg. of Aquarius, and in opposition to the Moon. The late Com­
mander Morrison, R.H., was-bom with:
Uranus exactly rising in the
last degree of Leo, and in sextile to-the Sun and Mars.
Uranus when located in Sagittary, and affecting the Sun,
Moon or ascendant, I have found to produce sciatica, or gout of-the
lower extremities. In Taurus, a liability to diphtheria, and.to
bronchitis and laryngitis. A lady who was b o m when Uranus and Saturn
wehe:nearly conjoined in Taurus, in the eighth'house, and afflicting
the Moon, suffered for many years with a peculiar constant cough, the
slightest movement of the air producing a most exhausting paroxysm of
coughing. She eventually died of phthisis laryngea.
■No attempt will be made in these pages to describe the per­
sonal characteristics' of' the Uranus' "native” as varied by the transit
of the planet through the twelve- signs of the zodiac. Any such de­
scriptions found in astrological books must, necessarily, be largely
if not wholly, fanciful. For, before a mere outline of such delinea­
tion could be justified, it would be imperative that, at fewest, a
hundred exact and well-authenticated times of birth stated as observed
and recorded to the hour and minute, for-Uranus in each decanate of
every sign. This would involve the careful comparison of 3,600 Uran­
ian nativities in which'the-planet was alone rising at the moment of
birth, 'and not more than five degrees above or below'the ascending
degree,'Measured by it s (the planet Is) oblique ascension. I do- not
possess any such desirable data, although my study of -the ancient
science has extended over-fifty years-
- from May i860, to: the time of
writing (January, 1911)".'
99
; ' However,' a few".cases'of' riqtable Uraniana aay now be
presented:— -1.--The founder and/original ..editor of ZADKDEtrS
AIMANAC','. R.T.M.,
''born, according''to the entry made by his father
in the family Bible, at. 9^45^ á.m. of the 15th of' June,' 1795, in
lat. 51°40' N . ,
' and'long. :
0°6'« ' This time the author rectified
to one minute earlier, making the R.A. of M.C. 49°38,15", which
.gives Taurus.22o04' on. the upper.meridian, and Virgo 1°36* on the
ascendant, 'The planet,Uranus had lately'pisón In Leo 29035’, and
"was 3°17r above th$ eastern horizon,"i&easured by 'oblique-ascension.
There was no other'planet in op "near the ascendant'; 'but,' inasmuch
ás Mars, in Gemini '29Ó01V, wáó '
very nearly in' sentile with Uranus,
’
and Mercury, ih 15°32» of Caücér was nearly in sexhi-quartile with
the asdendihg planet, this, cannot be said to be á wholly Uranian
horoscope,. ". • ? -••■ •
In stature Zadlti'ei .X was very tall,'being over six feet in
height, and'was well built Hi's'"head was large ■and' well balanced.
His'temperament was very energetic,'sanguine, and somewhat' Impulsive.
He possessed a clear, "activé brain,' of "good scientific 6'alibre. He
■;wSs free from prejudice,' independent In thought and opinion, ingenious,
bPavè', self-reliant,
' Original,’:
and not máterialistic ;■and Was pr'edis-
.p'pSe'd towards spiritism. His disposition'was frank, courteous, light­
hearted, sociable, "sincere, generous, arid'yet’careful.' He possessed
i
r
i a high degree "the'corirage .of his opinions,".and-ever fearlessly
proclaimed what he believed fo be the truth."' He v¿pote largely ò
r
i
astrology for nearly half a
' century, and wrote a'work, in 1857’
,
'
' '
entitled "The Cycloid System of Astronomy." : '
Uhën Uranus Is .very close indeed-— within one degree— -to
the ascending degree? a child then born usually meets with several
accidents in the course of'his life, áadkiel.1, although he was
engaged in several actions at sea-
- for hè was a comniander in' thé
Royal Navy-
- in his earljr years was, I believe, never wounded. He
Was'Once bitten in!
the foot by a
' "'dòg, and had to submit to a .slight
surgical operation in conséquence, at 59 years of age, under thé
influence of the Ascendant quarti le Mars in the zodiac,’ 38059,?
';
by
primary direction. He died in his sleep at 78 years 8 months of-age,
in the early morning of Fenruary 5, 1874, under Sun quartilè Mercury,
zodiac, conversely, 78°S8' by primary direction (followed by two
‘
other '
evil directions)— ^Mercury having'.'the. parallel declination .of
Mars at hirth,- ' ■'
;" 2. The Duke of Orleans ivas born’at 1^50' p.m. of February '6,
1869,' at Twickenham.' R,A¿. of M.Ci M3°5'5»56" j Pisces 12°34f on the
upper meridian, and Cancer i4°20‘
* ox
i the ascendant. ÜPanus was retro­
grade'in Cancer 14°10', within One degree of (above) thé eastern'
horizon, no'other planet being in thè "'ascending sign'. Mars was’"
'
within two degrees of the quintile a'sp'ect with Uranus, and Jupiter
was within 'three degrees (applying)' of'the'•quartile with the ;
ascending" planet.
' The Sun Was in mundrine trino with Uranus.
"'
.
'
■
■
'
•
'
■
‘
éhe Dulce ’
of Órleans is'riot tall, and ié'’
'stout in build.
'He'met with, an accident "while hunting on April 26, 1895 (arc 26013* ),
fracturing a leg (the tibia), under the' primary''direction of Ascendant
100, .
parallel Uranus.;"in-.thé zodiac, conversely-26?22*, and M.C. par.
Mars ,zod.
.
y
-
.
:con'.r.26?46 .
• 'Again', he •was- much •
'
shaken.in •
a;mot or-
carriage collision, on June 20,-1899 (arc-3Q°22'),.under the
primary,
'direction -of';
G □ zod.. - 3 0 ° 3 3 I n the year 18908 the
author foretold that this direction1would .
.
f
t
.
i
n his 31st year, cause .
;
L
'
.
-
-
^
¡
.
the-Duke,some misfortune." . '
- ,5.- -The Crown Prince Rudolf, of Austria-Hungary, was born at
•■ÎO^IS“1 p.m. of August .21, 1858-, oat Vienna..^ R.A. of'M.C. 303°38'34",
Aquarius 1-24'.on-the Midheàveny---ahd Gemini 0o7|-' on the ascendant.
Uranus in'Gemini 3°23f, In opposition with t
f in /4°29’ on the cusp
of'the.-'.descendant , and- in mundane quartile with Saturn in fi 5°28',
in the1fourth-house. Uranus is 2044' beldw the eastern horizon,
measured by oblique ascension. The J
) (hyleg) is Z>°7' cadent from
the Midheaven, indS 27°42', in parallel declination with o
' , separ-
. atihg from the"trine cvi'th and-applying to opposition with ty .
■
The 0 is in conjunction with■Rôgulus, a martial star of the first
magnitude-, in the--fifth-house, ■arid-within two' degrees of quartile to
the ascending degree. This'nativity is a :violent one, and the
presence ofitf- in the-ascendant ■
Increases the ■
violence of and ^ ,
and indicates the mysterious and:
violent ■nature of the tragedy-which
ended the life.of -the- prince at 30<y years -of age. The presence- of <
$
;-so close .(really 0°56’
- be-low,
the"-Western-'horizon) to the cusp of the
house of marriage, "and the fatal primary ■
•
direction of the O to the
opposition of theD by converse motion 50°55', preceded byD opposi­
tion Regulus. >3'0°29 ’, mundd, accounts -for it, dstrologically speaking.
Cardan wrote that when 'the- infortunes are in angles it denotes a
public death or a sudden one. It is said that a shot wound was
found behind the ear, -and that'the- skull- was fractured; but every
attempt having been.made to hush-up the tragedy,'the sad affair "
remains1a.mystery. ■The arc for death (1° *■ I year-of life) is
(See Figure 7 page 101.)- -■ ■ ; ''
As Uranus is powerful when', in Gemini, this may be the sign
of his exaltation. Americans have-good reason to remember the
.power of-this planet,- in 1775-1776, and again in 1860-1865-, which
were the last two of his periodical visits to Gemini, the sign ruling
America.
4. The Earl.: of 'AoseberryK.'G. was born at 3 o'clock'precisely,
in the morning of May 7, 1847, in London. This very- interesting
horoscope was given in STAR IORE, April 1897. The R.A. of M.C. is
,269°10,42", the sigiiy 29°42T culminating1
, and X 2S°03‘ ascending,
. T being intercepted in the first house,-or division of the heavens.
..Uranus is seen in the ascendant ih T l 6 ° 0 1 h e a r to $ in 20°42* of
the same sign,-the former planet-being'but 8°38’ below the eastern
horizon, measured in-oblique-ascension j ànd bothlji and % are in
sextile aspeçt- with both 9' and % in?the third-house. This-is -
a rare
and very-happy combination of aùspieiôus‘influences, conferring '
clearness';': depth,, and'breadth of intellect, eloquence,:and good
nature. A mediaeval author— Morinus— averred that Mercury in mutual
sextile with.both' Venus and-Jupiter gave "wisdoiiv'and eloquence, and
X proper person to-be :an-ambassador or •
statesman.” The-noble'Earl has
(
.
•
<"evine-ed that, independence'-of thought' and•judgment characteristic Of
101
Q ----r- . 13°01«1V"N :•150°36f»47« ,.26°58'i3" ; 73?i2’31".
, D .3^28'S 24 01 36 S ;
,
300 31 50 ;, 3.06 44. 60.03 23 :,
*
5 ;
2
- 2Q S 0;32 .34 S- 174. 54 .38 ,51 16,04 .90.36 28 . .
9 0 12. S . 4 25 00 .S 189 44-54. 66 06 20 94 57 40 . .
.
.
.. '
2 36 S. 23 35 59 S. 241 59 37 . 118.,21 23 119 17 12N -
• -.
2
1
: 0 39 .3 22 14 46. -
I
i•
• 81 52 22 . 41 46 02 .62 44 -52 .
.. :
v. ' h 0
. 25 N- .19..19 04 .
N
.
127-56 42 4 18 .08 .66 3 3 22
v
. -
i
i .
0
. 10 S 20:40 51 N 61 23 13. 62 15/31: 64:59 48 .
. W
'
.
. 1 13|S 24 54-S .553 10. 11 -31 31 37- 86 10 08
REGULUS Q 28 N , 12 .39 32 N. 150 12.28 . ,
26- 33 54 . 75 26 03
.
...vUranians-,:. in: his- zealous endeavours for the welfare of Great
Britain, apart from party politics. His recent writings and
.speeches, have demonstrated his. honesty of. purpose.,, and have
-verified-.what I .yirpte in 1897,
;wl^en presenting his .lordship''s- ,
/
.
.
nativity* •ztame.ly;--"5«az'l Dose.bery:-;is .deservedly popular ¡among.,
thoughtful.
and;.-unprejudiced people, and ¡is far-, superior in .
.
.
honesty of purpose..and generpsity ;
to the great ¡majority of his
■•
¡opponents."- He Is ,
a great, .force in the,political world., and
■all- true Britons are proud of him* . ,
.
.
*
•
■
.
3
.
.
-
, Viscount 7/oIseley, K.P.,, etc.,:b o m .at li^SS?1 p.m*.
on June 4, 1833-,. at,.Golden. Bridge House, .Co. -.Dublin... Aquarius-.
;17°20* •is on the .ascendant,-.end- Uranus in 8gP32’ of the, same
. sign legs-than five .degrees-below the eastern-horizon. I M s
nativity will be found, in; iUlUHlJ,-..June 1892-, ¡:Uranus’had .the ; .
102’" A
proximate sextile aspect with both Venus and Jupiter. These conf­
igurations, and the 'ehtry of Mercury into the sign Gemini, within
four degrees of the sextile of Mars, conferred together oh! the'.'
gallant General a scientific mind, an energetic and resolute nature,
resourcefulness,^high courage,, and martial skill. Lord-Wolseley
entered the aimy ;
in Ma,rch _1852 ; he-was severely wounded'-in the •
Burmese ’
Tar, in his twentieth-'yeari (unddr•the primary'direction bf
Moon ’
opposition Mars, mundo, 19°34' ). *At the siege of Sebatopél'-he
was again so severely wounded in the face that he lost his right
eye, and was at first thought to have expired. As a commander Lord
Wolseley was particularly fortunate, 'ilt is careers like his which
lead men'“
to believe in a lucky star ," Said a .
writer in the Review of
"Reviews on the gallant General's.’
military career.
6. v tehe -liate Prince Francis of Teck, the second son of the
Duke and Duchess, of Teck, and brother' of Queen Mary, was b o m at
11 o
'
,
fclock-in'-the .evening of January 9 1 8 7 0 , at Kensington Palace,
as certified‘
.by thè doctors Farre and Hill.
The R.A. of'li.G. is 94°03'35" Cancer 3°43' culminating
and Libra 2°5l,' ascending. Uranus is in the tenth house, in
Cancer 20°01', in opposition to the Sun in the fourth house, in
Capricornus 19°33'49", and. in quartile with the Moon (hyleg) in
Aries 20°27' in the seventh house. The Moon is separating from
conjunction with Neptune in Aries 16°50'. The hyleg has no support
from Jupiter, and her'configuration with'Venus is the semi-quartile.
As in the ..case-of-,F,X)
.
.
’q .infant,.Planus, is afflicting both Sun and
Moon, and in this.'instance,'is in "the' tenth hôüsé elevated ..above the
luminaries..' The early death, of the 'estimable' Prince Francis',' after
an illness of a
, few weeks took place.on October 22, 1910, from
blood poisoning, following an ,
.
operation on his throat, nine days
beforehand. The arc for, the "fatal ¿vent is 40°48’
., and the primary
direction of the,Moon to thé zodiacal parallel of "Neptune, converse­
ly, in the''sixth house, measures'closely thereto— -40°39 '
-
'
— and'is
immediately followed by Ascendant, .'opposition Venus, mundo, converse­
ly, 41°21' . .If the birth took place .'only two minutés bèfore elaVen
o'clock, this direction would' be brought up ekactly to the terminus
vitae, and Venus's influence when found in the fatal train of prim­
ary arcs is usually associated with poisoning in some form. The .
.
lamented Prince was forward '
,
i
'
n‘
every good work, 'arid he 'is "Sadly kissed.
7. . Prìhcé .Leopold, Duke 'of Albany, was born at Î^IÇF pik.,
April 7, 1853, London.\ The ÿ.A. 'Of'hhek.C. is'3'3oO3'30'', Taiirus
5°21* culminating, and Leo 20°03* àsôendiüg. . Thé'-'àü'thor :
gavé ;
the horoscope in Sadkiel's Almàndd .for 1885. '
• Urarius was in the
tenth, house', in Aries ,
. elevated above all thè Other celestial
bodies, arid but 2°01'' from the upper meridian, his meridian'passage
taking place at 1:17 p.m. Saturn Was iri Aries 16°54''. This royal
duke possessed great abilities, Mercury being.in trine with .Jupiter,
and thé'Moon with Venus .in thé riiritrivriorise./ '& train of evil’direc­
tion's 'came into "'fbréeh.ih'' his^ik?.i'^y~Îira:
b''ÿeàr;‘ arid'his health' fail­
ing, he was àpv'i.sed tò'go'to''
t
'
h
'
e South k'f Prènce .early in 1884. 'On
the 27th of March '
of thek. ÿehr thè ."Prinòè was seized with giddi'riëss
while'ascending some strips,'fell,"and struck his head; during the
103
night ¿e'became ^rapidly worse and'"-expired,.at. Cannes,: The fatal
primary directionsu^ere-Sun conjunction Saturn, zodiac,. 30-£7i
(last contact), Midheaven conjunction Mars-, zodiac,- conversely,
30°50»,
' and Sun'semi-quartile Mars’
,\-zodiac-, 3r
l°05'. Mars,•
Saturn,
Uranus and the Sun; were all in:
Aries', the''sign ruling, the; head, .
and whether’the rupture of’
a*blood vessel in'the head was the•
cause of the fall, or vice versa,-a point on which the surgeons
in attendance were not agreed, the death was of a martial (haem­
orrhagic) nature, and partly due-to a -fall, under. Saturnine in­
fluence, and in a foreign land, as the hyleg- (the Sun): and Mars
were cadent in the ninth house.
8.. A gentleman who was born on April 9, 184-8, at S^UO1
1
1 a.m.,
in lat. 5501'5’
* IT., hnd- long. -2°llr-W . ,
' had' the Sun rising in con­
junction with Uranus in Aries, and nearly in parallel declination
v/ith Saturn. 'He lost 'the- sight’of- his- right' eye .
b
y
.
- an, accident.,
He died suddenly on the 1st'o f November,-'1875. •
9. Prince Christian Victor was b o m at 5 o ’clock p.m. of
April 14, 1867, at Windsor Castle. Uranus is within two degrees
(cadent) of the upper meridian (southing at 4:52 p.m.) in Cancer
4°50’, and in quartile to^the ascending degree (Libra:4°42?),
Mars is in the tenth house, in Cancer 24°58’, in quartile to the
Sun. As neither Sun nor Moon occupied any hydegiacal place the
. ascending degree is hyleg. The Prince went out to South Africa
in October, 1899, with his-regimeht, and>, unfortunately, succumbed
to enteric' fever at Pretoria, in October-, 1900. Mars and Uranus
being in Cancer, the sign ruling Africa, and Saturn in:
Scorpio,-
which rules the Transvaal, the sad fatality is accounted for,
astrologically speaking.
It may be of interest to students to note that Uranus was
in the tenth house at the birth of Mr. I’!. E. Gladstone (whose horo­
scope was given in Star Lore, June, 1898), and at that of Ruskin
(Star Lore, December, 1900). Uranus was in the fourth house at
the birth of Bismarck, Cecil Rhodes, the Prince Imperial of France,
and Mr. Lloyd George. Uranus was in the third house at the birth
of Zola. Uranus was in the sixth house (in Aries) at the birth of
Lord Randolph Churchill, (S.L, June, 1899).
It is remarkable that a transit of Uranus (in Gemini 8°)
over the Midheaven of the horoscope of the late Dr. Richard Garnett
coincided with a sudden impulse on his part to study astrology as
a key to mythology, in January, 1861. And in May, 1861, the author
had his interest awakened in regard to astrology in connection with
medicine and surgery, by a remarkable case of illness of a patient
of his father’s, when Uranus was in Gemini 10§°, in transit over
the cusp of the seventh house of his (the author’s) nativity, in
trine aspect to the degree in the Midheaven and in opposition to
the place of Mercury in his ascendant.
At the birth of the Pretender, son of James II, namely at
9 3CT1 a.m. June 10th (old style), 1688, Uranus was close to the
Midheaven in Taurus 20°. The astrologers of that day, being
104 :
unaware of the existence of Uranus,.would pronounce his nativity
a fortunate one, for: thè Sun and-'.Venus; were ...both'entering/the-
tenth house, and ¡.they.would-be at less; to account for his
i
n
i
'
sfortunes. The Pretender spoke of himself so related Sir. .
Ualt-er Scott, ;
in this wise: "that forhim.it was'no new thing
to be unfortunate, since his whole life, from his cradle,.had
been a-constant, series of misfortunes." .■
In lake manner-the nativities-of Buckingham and Laud,
afford instances: of the ’
power o.f Uranus.. Gadbury gave absurd rea
reasons for their violent deaths..•
. :
If Uranus-rwhen 'close to-
.
’
the upper meridian happens to
be in close.trine, aspect with the Sun, Moon, Jupiter, or Venus, ,
there ,
is every reason ;
.to .anticipate success, in the .-long,run,- •
despite some occasional difficulties;., and: that even a serious,
crisis may eventually end successfully,
. POOTNQ.TES .
(1. Anacalypsisy Vol. I, page 208. .
.
i , • .
2. /See Zadkiel’s Almanac for 1891, p,; 57, .
•3. .The author gave the time of birth in Urania (April, 1880^,
p.- 138, on the authority of Mr. A. G. Trent',, vho had examined the
official:record of it. . . .
'
.
t
105
- - chapter XVI il
THE PLANET NEPTUNE :V
■"All Nature is but art, unknown to thee; ^
:
1 All.chance .direction,,which thou •
canst not see
-•■■■All discord, harmony,.not understood;
All partial evil, universal good.”— — Pope.
It having been observed for several years that, the motion
of Uranus was not always as it was calculated to be, after allowance
had been made fór all known causes of-disturbance, Mr. Adams, of
'Cambridge, 'England, and M. Le. Merrier, of .Paris,, began,, unkno.via. to
each' other, an inquiry'into the. source-, of this apparent anomaly.
They soon arrived at the conclusion that a great planet revolved
outside the orbit of Uranus. The difficult problem was to ascertain
the position -of such planet amongst the stars, with, the view of dis­
covering it by means Of the telescope. Several eminent astronomers
declared their opinion that-the place of the:latent'planet could not
be discovered by calculation. Adams and LeVerrter,.however, finally
succeeded in solving-the problem, and assigned nearly the. samé.'posi-
tion -to the planet. Adams, however, did not. announce his. conclusions
'publicly,"and:much of the.credit was given- to the French Astronomer,
who had' declared the ;
position of the new planet to the Academy of
Sciences at'Paris in the summer of 1846;. and on the 23rd of September
;
of that' year’
, Dr. Galle, of the Royal Observatory, Berlin, acting
upon the urgent representations of Le Terrier, contained in a letter
received on that- date, turned the ¡
great telescope of the Observatory
to that part of the heavens indicated by, Le Terrier, when a bright
telescopic star appeared in the field .of view at a point where no such
■object was marked in.the map of that part of the heavens. It proved
to be the'predicted planet, named by the common’
consent of Le Terrier,
Adams, and the chief astronomers of Europe-— the planet’Neptune.
Its period of revolution is 60,1Í8 days, or a little over 164^- years,
which is twice the period of Uranus.^ . . '
It is. claimed that the. discovery of Neptune affords ”a
remarkable confirmation of the truth of the Newtonian'laws.of
gravitation.”
In the first edition (1879) of this work, the author stated
that: ’
’
Sufficient time has not yet elapsed.to enable astrologers to
determine the precise nature of Neptune's influence. Until more
experience shall have been gained as to its influence, it'may be
accepted that its general character is fortunate, and that persons
born under its sway a.re healthy, end good-natured.”-
•CASE 1.— *rNot long’aften.the above septenos was published my
■attention was directed tq. the .case of a
. male child b o m at S':50 p.m,,
Greenwich Mean T i m e a t Edinburgh,( July 13,,.1879.. .R.A. of M.C.
165°36'. The Moon was then ,
in Taurus 15°53' (and, haying 4°56’
north latitude-was really.above the western horizon) and separating
from conjunction with Neptune in•
,
Taurus,:il°471. .The, child died five
days after birth. The moon was hyleg, and was not afflicted by
106:
either Saturn, Mars, or Uranus, so that there is nothing to account,
astrologically speaking^. it&ih;the .darlyf death, unless Neptune is of
malefic nature. The Sun had the quartile of Saturn, but was not in
any hylegisqal situation;; ttyLs. might, .weaken •
the. heart, but would not
pe-r.
-
.se pause .go. early a d,qath.:
.;
,
l
.
t
.
,
.
_
w
a
s owing to-a malformation and
internal obstruction-that..-¡¿hq- child, succumbed,„.and the sign Taurus,
which contained-the Moon .-aM.^Neptune, is: one. connected with such
congenital affliction.
;
. . The surgeon in attendance at the .birth-of this infant
kindly furnished, the particulars.-*- . r.
Further investigation soon confirmed the view that. Neptune*s
influence is-.-quite, as malefic, as that of .Uranus-— when afflicting the
Sun,. Moon,, or Mercury, and. receiving..no assistance .from, either. Venus
;or Jupiter. .
.
.
.
.
. £.— ;
-A youth-, who was"born between 7 :30 and .8:00 p.m.,
. and, most
probably, very close to the former time,-of the 23rd of August., 1859 ,
in latitude 52?05‘.N . , and;9m20s V
-
J
.,
*
• went to .Bath, on .
a.
visit, in
1885, and was drowned on the 29th of November,. (1885) ,
: but how the sad
-event took place was. never known. He left his. brother at half-past
..
nine(o^clock, and said.he would walk homo-in. a ¡.few minutes. •
• His body
.was-found three days afterwards, washed on.the-bank of the.river Avon,
at Teverton. His.watch stopped at ten forty-five. The arc-for death
26°16*.
. -Taking-.7:30. p.m. Local, mean-time as the,probable.'moment of
..birth,-the R.A., of .the-M.-C. -is- 264°4*-
, Sagittarius 24°33* culminating,
and Pisces 15 33* ascending at the birthplace. . Neptune was alone in
the¡ascendant, in Pisces 26027', retrograde, and in quartile.with the
.Moon in jjhe fourth house, in Gemini 29°00*, and in parallel with
Mercury, in Virgo. 9°27* retrograde in the sixth house. The ascending
--degree is hyleg; and.Neptune is 6°33* below the. eastern horizon-,
measured by obli.qu.e. ascension, (tdus: his semi-arc 93°22*-
- 86°48*,
.
his.-.ffieridian distance * 6^33*)-. ■ The death took--place under-the
primary direction of ¿Iscendant parallel Saturn,-in the zodiac 26°25’,
followed by Ascendant square Saturn zodiac 27°55*; Saturn being, at
birth, -in the, sixth house, .in Leo (the -sign ruling. Bath) 17°47', with
Mars i
-
n
, 19°3Q* of the same sign,.the ruler of the ei^ith house (Scor­
pio being thereon), and with Venus in 20°38* of the.,same sign. (Leo).
A sign of the "watery triplicity” ascended at birth with Neptune
;therein in ..quartile with the Moon in.-the house of the grave, and
practically in Cancer, .a watery, sign, and .the third,watery sign-
(Scorpio) is.found.on the. cusp of the house of death; and the end of
this youth's life was by drowning., - ,
3.-
- The Duke of Brabant, first-born, .of King Leopold I of Belgium,
was b o m at 4:30 a.m, of the 24th of July, 1833, at Brussels. He died
-on the 4th.of May, ,1834. The R.A. of the M,.C. is. 3?21*, Aries 9°6'
.
culminating,, and Leo 2°12* ascending. The, Sun had just risen in Leo
0°57', separating from parallel declination and =opposition with
Neptune in Capricornus. .28°7*> less than five degrees below; the west­
ern horizon.,
- .The.Moon was..in the fourth,house., .
.
i
n
. Scorpio 4°22’,
separating..from quartile with both’the Sun and.Neptune., Zadkiel I
gave this nativity in HOBOSCOPE., June-7th, 1834,.-,-and .Neptune not
i07
haying'then been discovered,' Attributed the early death .of the.child
'to the mundane semi-quartile of the Sun (hyleg) with Mercury., The
contra-parallel of the Sun with, Neptune was very close, the Sun's
declination being I9?58' N., and that of Neptune 20o7' S.
4. --Nata, November 28th, 1876, 8:45 p.m«, in latitude 51°31' N.
said longitude 0°22' W. The Moon in the tenth house in Taurus 2°21'
in conjunction with Neptune in 5°2' of the, sake sign, and separating
from opposition with Mars in Libra 29034'. This young lady fainted
and fel^L, and died immediately of heart-failure in February 18,98.
She had" suffered .from,weak digestion and anoreiia. The time of'her
birth was accurately observed and recorded.
5. --Nata, November 14th, 1851, 7:00 a.m. in latitude 50°51' N.
and longitude 0°28* E., Virgo 6°30' culminating, Scorpio 18°16'
ascending, and Pisces 6°30' on the lower meridian, Neptune being in
Pisces 6°28', just within the fourth house, and in mundane quartile
to the Sun in the ascendant, and in sesquiquadrate to the Moon near
the cusp of the ninth house. This lady was seized with paralysis
.(partial) in 1808, and suffered for ten subsequent years from neuritis
in her lower extremities, and if her feet were touched the pains were
agonizing and like electric shocks.
6. --Nata,.January 30th, 1847, 6:00 p.m., latitude 52°20' N . , and
longitude 1022' W. The sign Leo 24°50' ascending. Neptune in the
seventh house, in Aquarius 27°10', only 2°57' above the western hori­
zon (measured by oblique descension), and in opposition to the ascend­
ing degree (the hyleg). Saturn was also in the seventh house, in
Pisces 0°37', but was 7°55' above the hoimzon. Mars was on the cusp
of the fifth house in Sagittarius 22°26*. This poor woman suffered
from a large tumour which prevented her child from being born per
vias naturales, and she died, on February 3rd, 1880, two days after
the Oesarean operation.
7. --Nata, September 27th, 1862, 11;51 a.m., Greenwich mean time,
in latitude 50°40‘ N, R.A. of K.C. 183°13», Libra 3°30' on the upper
meridian, and Sagittarius 6°29' on the ascendant. The Sun in Libra
406'21M in opposition with Neptune in Aries 2°25' on the lower meri­
dian (cadent only 0°25'), and supported by Jupiter in Libra 7°1', but
afflicted by the zodiacal parallel of Max-s. This lady met with an
accident by falling on the ice in February, 1888, under the primary
direction of Ascendant quartile Saturn 25°23*, and has suffered, more
or iess, ever since,, and has undergone a sexi ous operation. Here the
hyleg has both opposition and mundane parallel with Neptune, a double
affliction greater than his (the Sun’s) parallel with Mars.
Although Neptune is more of a malefic than a.benefic planet,
it does not follow that when he-is exactly rising at a birth, the
child is of. a nature more malefic than benefic; but, when at the same
time the ascending degree is hyleg, Neptune does render the health
more or less delicate. ’
In the chapter on Neptune, in the first edition of this work,
the author (in 1879) gave the description (furnished by the husband)
108
of a young lady vsho was born when Neptune alone was rising in 17°52’
of the, sign Pisces, and in trine aspect with the Moon:— -"Height,
5 ft, ^ in.] eyes very large and of a blue'colour; high forehead,
oval, face, light complexion; light brown ha,ir; good figure, and,
generally speaking, handsome; voice musical."
A young, lady who was b o m when Neptune was in the ascendant
in Aries 28°54’,
. only five degrees below the horizon, the Moon in 25°
20’ of Aquarius applying to sextile aspect with the planet, has black
hair;. very large eyes -of a dark brown colour, almost black, and black
eyebrows; slenderly: built, and of good figure; and very prepossessing
personality; and is.in height 5 ft, 5 in. Her father had bladk hair,
her mother dark auburn. Her father died when she was only four-and-
a~half years old under the primary direction of Ascendant conjunction
Neptune in her-nativity.
Neptune in the tenth house, near the meridian, and.at the
same time in quartile with Uranus, causes difficulties and changes in
employment, business, or profession; and, unless the nativity is
fortunate otherwise, loss of business or employment, vnth years of
consequent troubles. Two notable instances of this effect have fallen
under my notice, one sufferer having been born in J'une 1869, and the
other in January, 1870. In the foimer case the mother died five years
after the birth of her son, and in the latter instance, the mother very
nearly died of fever five years after the birth of her son, also.
Neptune in the second house of a nativity, unless very well
configurated, usually involves the owner thereof in financial losses
and difficulties from time to time, and brings heavy expenses upon him.
Neptune does not incline towards melancholy and despondency
like Saturn; neither, does he incline to excitability like Mars and
Uranus. • Neptune gives an inclination to scientific studies and pur­
suits, but not so much of the mechanical kind as Mars and Uranus do;
and not so much ingenuity is conferred by Neptune, as by Mars and
Uranus, when in conjunction or aspect with Mercury.
Again, Neptune usually inclines to foreign travel, and sev­
eral Neptunians whom.I havd known have travelled almost to every civ­
ilised country. This propensity to roam abroad seems to be more pro­
nounced in persons who were born wheh Neptune \m& rising or in the ninth
house, in either the first or twelfth' sign of the zodiac.
I have not found that Neptunians and Uranians are particular­
ly, .inclined to occult-studies and pursuits-— not more so than are Sat-
urnians-^-although.. occultists and psychics seem disposed to believe that
the two_most distant: planets hre of such nature. Uranus doe's, usually,
confer independence and oi’
iginality of thought and action, and inclines
t
p
.
.romanticism..'/ : .
.
.
■ •
•
.
*i,• .
. r
. ■ .
.
7. ' ■FOOTNOTES ■
, The ..above particulars were given in Dr. Hind’s "Introduction
to .Astronomy;” London, Bell.and Dally.
2. Tide URANIA, August, 1880, p. 257.
109
, , CHAPTER XIX
J ' ? THE FIXED STARS.
"And taught the fix'd
lhein inflpence malignant when to shower,"
• --m e l t o n
! The Fixed Stars are so called because they APPEAR to remain
. 'stationary, to keep the same distance! from each other, and to have no
annual revolution around the'Sun. The stars have'an apparent motion
from east to west, in circles parallel to the equinoctial.
: When a star ascended with the Sun, or descended when the
Sun rose, the ancient poets wrote of it as rising Or setting cosmic-
ally. When a star rose at sunset, or set with t he‘
Sun, it was said
to rise and set acronically. When a star first became visible in the
early morning, after having been in such close proximity to the Sun
as to be hidden by his rays, it was said to rise heljacally^-
; and
when a star first became invisible in the evening, on account of its
proximity to the Sun, it was said to set heliacally.
The time of the rising and setting of the fixed stars varies
according to the latitudes of the places of observation; and the
refraction in high latitudes is very great.
The longitudes of the fixed stars increase at the annual
rate of 50^25".S Their latitudes vary but very1 little. The right
ascensions and declinations of most of the principal stars are given
annually in the NAÏUTECAL AIMANAC;' and, by means of their annua},
differences their places may be readily computed for many years in
advance. White's Ephemeris, from 1792 to 1839, gave the places of
the principal stars. The stars of the first magnitude have the
greatest power; those of less than the fourth magnitude (except when
in a cluster, like the Pleiades) have no appreciable influence.
When a 'fixed star whose latitude does not exceed 8°30*
happens to be in conjunction with the Sun at birth, or when the Sun
is directed to its conjunction, certain effects are distinctly traceable.
When a fixed star, whose latitude does not differ greatly from
that of the Moon or any planet which may happen to be in conjunction
with it, certain effects' are produced.
When a star ‘
of1
•
‘
the first or second magnitude happens to be
exactly culminating or ascending its influence is undeniable.
Stars having north latitude affect us most; and, per contra,
stars having great south latitude affect the denizens of the southern
hemisphere most. The Sun, the Moon, or a planet, may hadp the parallel
of declination of a star with which, on account of its great latitude,
it can never be in (zodiacal) conjunction. In such case-— provided
that the star's' latitude be north— --the effects of this parallel would
probably be nearly as great as if the star were in the zodiac.
110
The conjunction,! .opposition'r and zodiacal and mundane
parallel should only be considered in regard to the fixed stars;
they are said, in astrology^;to./kasi; n o rrays, i.e,, they do not
operate on the planets or angles of the heavens by sextile, square,
trine, etc. Aldebaran* Regulus.,.T
'Rigel, Arista, Hercules, the North
Scale, Foiaalhaut, Antares,* or. Orion.';a.-Shoulder culminating, give
great honour, preferment, and good fortune; and the same in a lesser
degree when they ascend. Rigel, or Orion’s foot, is said to confer
great and lasting honours, good fortune, and happiness. Although
situated in the sixteenth degree of Gemini', >it id ses with 27° of
Cancer and sets with 14° of-Taurus.-.' At the Prince Consort’s birth
Rigel was in the tenth:house. ’ v
The Sun conjoined with Aldebaran, Hercules, Regulus,
Antares or any eminent star of the :
nature‘
tof'Mars, is said to
threaten a violent death, or frequent sickness. These same stars
are.also said to bring the native military preferment, or distinc-
tion in surgery, but in ,the end to cause disgrace or ruin.
. ; Napoleon I had the Sun with Regulus.
The Sun with .the Pleiades, Hyades,^Castor, Pollux, Praesepe.
or the Asseli, is indicative of evil, and liability to violent death.
The South Scale^ and the Knee of Ophiuctis are, when-'-eonjoined with
the Sun, indicative of trouble and disgrace* ' The Northj
Scale and
Arista conjoined with the Sun give the 'most -eminent and -permanent good
fortune. All eminent fixed stars with the Sun in an angle give ad­
vancement and success;:those of the nature of Mars cause violent death,
or ultimate ruin, in consequence of the native’s*own -conduct; those of
the nature of Saturn bring disgrace, ruin, and great calamity. The
Pleiades and Praesepe with the Sun in an angle often produce blindness.
The Moon conjoined with Aldebaran or Pollux threatens a
violent death; with the Pleiades, Praesepe, -or Antares, blindness or
injuries to the eys (when in an angle). When the Moon happens to be
conjoined-with Pleiades, and Saturn, or Mars with Regulus, and the
Moon combust, total blindness sometimes ensues. The Moon with Antares,
in opposition to Saturn with Aldebaran, threatens a violent death,
-maybe strangulation. If Mars, instead of Saturn be with Aldebaran,
the,death will be by a:blow or fall— particularly if they are in an
angle. The Moon with Cor Hydrae, and also in conjunction, parallel
declination, square, or opposition-with Mars or Saturn, death may be
due-.-to drowning or poison, if Mars be angular. The Moon with Antares
and Saturn, danger of drowning"Qr''USsassination. The Moon with Alde­
baran or Antares in the ascendant or mid-heaven, gives honours and
preferment, attended* however, .with danger.
In Zadkiel’a Almanac for 1886 was presented "a chapter of
accidents,” in which I mentioned thut:the nativity of a child who died,
at, fourteen months :old',-frean"the effect's ob being accidentally scalded,
showed the Moon in.conjunction with Mars in the midheaven and in. para­
llel declination: with. Antares. The birth took place at 4:50 p.mi of
-the-28th of -September, 1873, at Rishton (England).
Ill
I.--rA List of MINENT FIXED S/TABS Near; the. ECLIFIÎC , with'
•
Their
'
'
' "Lpagitude and Latitudes(computed- for. January. 1st, 1911.
NAME MAGN- LONGITUDE LATITUDE BIGHT DECLINA- NATURE
• ITUDE ASCMSION H O N
0 t n •
■
. o -
■ h . m. s 0 H
b Arietis 2.7 2 ^ 4 3 34; 8 29 N 1 49 43 20 22 28 N
a Arietis, Barn’s
following horn 3.2 6 ^ 2 5 0 5 ’ 9 58 N 2 02 09 23 02 37 N Jj-c?
n Tauri, bright­
est of the 7 .i
stars
; ■»
■•3
.
.
- .28 ¥ 4 5 02 4 02 N 3 '42 12 23 49- 57 N r
f-i)
h Tauri , Hyades J. ..3.9 •
• 4 K 33 41 •5 49'S 4 14 44 15 24 53 N d -ì)
e Tauri, 0 cuius
Tauri :3.7 ; 7 a is 16 2 35-S 4 23‘25 ‘ 18 59 07 N 9
a Tauri, Alde-
baran ■1.1
.
i, •
8ÏC32 49 5 29-3 4 30 49 16 19 57 N.' d
b Tauri., Bull *s
North Horn .
■ '1.8 ■21K20 02
• .
. \
5 22|N 5 20 40 28 32 06 N ; c
"
h Geminorum,
Bright foot of
Gemini 1.9 7 0 51 49 6 4é*Ô 6 32 35 16 28 39 N 9-9
a Gemi-porum,, '
Castor 2. ■19 0 00 13 10 05 N 7 28 56 ‘
32 05 09 N qf-9-?2
b Geaninorum,
Pollux 1.2 2 1 0 59 23 ; 6 40 -N 7 39 53 28 14 34 N V
h Cancri, North .;
.
Assellus 4.8. ■6ÌU7 58 ' 3 11 N 8 38 09 21 47 23 N ’d -O
d Cancri, South
Assellus , 4.5 7 & 2 8 43 0 04 N 8 39:38 18 29' 02 N rf-O
a Leoni.s,
Regulus 1.3 28 a 35 33 0-28 i f 10 03 38 12 24 11 N ' o
*
a Virgin!s,Spica 1.2 2 2 ^ 3 5 42 2 03 S 13 20 29 10 41 45 S 9-.d\
a Librae, South.;
Scale 2.9 13 T
i
l50 16 0 21 N 14 45 56 15 40 18 S fj-9
b Librae, North .
Scaie 2,8 18 TH07 24 8 31- N 15 12 11 9 03 18 S .
2
L
-
.
r
f
'
.
b Seorpii, Frons
Scorpii 2.7 1 / 56 22 : 1 01 N 16 00 14 19 33 45 S b-9 .
a Scorpii,
Antares 1.3- 8 / 3 0 42 4 33 3 16 23 55 26 14' 07 S 9-cf
n Ophiuchi ,Right ’
..
Knee of
Ophiuchus 2.6 1 6 / 4 3 01 7 13 N 17 05 14 15 36 59 S
d Capricorni, .
Capricorn’s
.Tail 3» , 2 2 - 1 ? 16
1, :
'
2 35 S 21 42 06 16 32 06-S § "•
The stars in the above list'whose R.A«' and declination are not. given
in the Naut Leal.
Almanac , are taken from the Catalogue of 1,50C»stars pre-
sented in Dr. Loomis* "Introduction t o '
Practical Astronomny.’
’
Praesepe is described in the old works on Astrology as "in the Claw of
the Crab." Even Wilson repeated this wretched blunder. The cluster is in
the middle of the Crab and in Leo 6°.
u a
lI.-rr-A. List-.-,of;
JMINENT |IXED- STARS -
n
f
l
-
t..Iae.lud©d,in. .Table.I.,, with
' . 'Their, Jjiurhal Semi-Arcs, computed, for. Gre’
pnwich,. January 1st,
....... " 1911.'
NAME' '
.MAGN- '
' SIGHT DECLIN- ' S M I - '
NATURE
.
.ilUDE A S C M - A H O N ARC
, SION’ ! . . DIURNAL
h m s 0 t V 0 t ■; .
a Caput Àndromedae ■ 2.1 0 03 46; 28 36 O Î N 132 52 2L-9
h Pegasi, Algenib 2.9 0 08 38 14 41 .19 N 109 05 d-9
b Ceti, S* end of lhale 2,2 0 39 07 13 28 41 S 65 22
b Andromèdes, Mirach 2.4 1 04 44 35 09 04’N 151 28 9
h Andremedae, Almach ’ 2.2 1 58 25 41 54 22’N -- 9
b Persei, Caput Algol 2.4 3 02 28 40 36 59 N — '
a Aurigae, Capèlla i;
'
' • 0.2 ' 5 10 07 -45 54 40 N — — 9-<f
b Orionis, Rigel 0,3 5 10 16 8 08 12 S 79 31
h Orionis, Bellatrix 1.7 5 20 22 6
' 16 15' N 97 53 9 - c
i
d Orionis 2.3 5 27 28 0 21 48 S 89 S3 2t-ïj
e Orionis 1.7 5 31 42 1 15 25’S 88 26 2[-cf
a Orionis, Betelguese 1. 5 50 22 7 23 33 N 99 19 ‘ ci-9
b Aurigae 2.1 5 53 ei 44 56 29 N —
u Gemino rum 3i2 6 17 35 22 33 42-N 121 13 9-9
a Canis Majoris, Sirius 1.4 6 41 14 16 35 32 S 6B 11 c
T
a Canis Minoris, Pro’
cyon 0.5 7 34 39 5 27 18-N 96 45 9-ci
a Hydrae, Alphard 2.2 9 23 13 8 16 13 3 79 33- ÌI-V
b Leonis, Denebola 2.2 11 44 31 15 04 09 N 109 38 h-9-9
n Virginis 4. 12 15 21 0
. 10 17 S 89 47 • 9-cf
d Virginis 3.7 12 51 06 •3 52 52 N 94 51 ci-9
e Virginis, Vendemiatrix* 3. 12 57 44 11 26 IB N 104 37 ' îî-9-9
a Bootis, Arcturus 0.-3 14 11 35: 19 38 36 N 116 27
a Coronae, North Crown 2.3 15 30 54 27 00 39 N 129 30 9-9
a Serpentis 2.8 15 39 51' ' 6 42 13 N 98 26 n - 9 - d
d Scorpii 2.5 15 55 02 22 22 08 S 59 06 Tj-9
d Ophiuchi 3. 16 09 39 3 28 01 S 85 40 Î2-9
a Ophiuchi 2.1- 17 30 46' 12' 37 19'N 106 13 Î2-9
a Lyrae, Vega 0.1 18 33 53 38 41 53 N — — ' 9-9
a Aquilae,' Aitai r 0.9 19 46 24 ' 8 37 5 0 'N 100 55
b Aquarii .3,3. .21 26 51 . 5 57 58 S 82 3l
•*
* ■
a Pisc'is Australi s , ‘•
Eomalhaut 1.3 22 52 43 30 05 56 S 43 41 9-9
a Pegasi, Markab !
2.6 23 00 18 '14 43 3 2 ‘
N 109 08 ci-9
b Pegasi, Scheat 2.3 22 59 26 27 36 01 N 130 43 ' V
*Vendemiatrix is placed; in Wilson’s "Dictionary 'of Astrology,7in 'the
eighth degree of Virgo, with 10° latitude South, whereas this bright star
is really in the. sign Libra, and has 16°13J. of latitude North. The lists
of .stars' ds'given in the old'works on astrology are'all inaccurate.
In both Tables I and II the small letters before the names are
symbols for the Greek Tetters*aS follows: a— Alpha, b---Beta, d— Delta,
e— Epsilon,, h — -Lambda', n— Eta, u— Hu
113
Another, instance of the influence of eminent fixed stars
: was given in the nativity of a gentleman who was born in 1846, his
ascendant being Leo 2l053*, Mercury in the ascendant was in 27°23*
of the ascending sign very close to Regulus, and in opposition with
‘ Saturn in Aquarius 26°11' retrograde. The Sun in Virgo 14°06’ was
' very-near Mars in 15°10» of the same sign. This gentleman was nearly
killed by a serious accident,' in 1879, and was shot at only, a few
months previously, under the primary directions of Sun rapt -parallel
Mars 32°44', '
and Sun parallel Saturn 32°441. ■
Variable "stars exhibit periodical changes of brilliancy.
The bright star Capella is believed to have:increased 'in brightness
during the last century; On the othef hand, one of the -seven bright
. stars of Ursa Major has diminished in lustre. '
Professor Pickering showed that-no theory hitherto advanced
account's satisfactorily for the variability of the lustre of such a
star as Algol, except that of an opaque'satellite.
The'ancient astrologers declared that Algol is'-the most
evil of ail the fixed stars, and that when it is in thei-iine of right-
ascension of the Sun or Moon in a violent nativity it pre-signifies
”a murderer who will come to an untimely endl” In Robespierre’s
nativity (2:00 a.m. o f M a y 6th, 1758, at Arras) the Sun in Taurus
15°241 was in the line of R.A. of Caput Algol,' and in parallel
declination with Aldebaran, and also in quadrature with Mars, which
evil planet was in opposition to the ascendant, and Regulus also was
in opposition to the ascendant. Here is an extraordinarily violent
nativity, and Robespierre, af ter sending many victims to the guillo­
tine, was himself executed, at the end of July, 1794, in the thirty-
seventh year of his age.
" Irregular or Temporary Stars have occasionally shown forth
with a lustre far surpassing that of stars of the first magnitude, or
even that of Venus and Jupiter, remaining for a short period, and then
disappearing slowly. 'The most celebrated star of this kind is that
bright one in Casiopaeia, one of the circum-polar constellations,
which appeared in 1572, and was observed by Tycho Brahe, the famous
astronomer and astrologer, who handed down to posterity a concise and
valuable description of the various changes it passed through while
visible. During the early part of its appearance it surpassed the
brightness of Sirius. It was seen at noon by strong-sighted persons;
and was at first white, then yellow, and finally very red in colour.
It has been supposed to have heralded our Saviour’s birth— the Star
of Bethlehem-
- as its period was computed to be jiist about 515-years;
and it Was expected to re-appeár in the year 1887, but has not yet
been observed. '
' '
Another‘
temporary star came suddenly into view in Ophiuchus
in 1604j-and was'observed by the great astronomer and astrologer,
John Kepler,. " It exceeded Júpiter in splendour. It did not change
colour, and was always white. It remained visible ;üntil March, 1606.
Danie’s 'declaration i-—
114
■•They¿'that be wise ahall;tskiaQ.,as:.th.e-.bri^itaQ3S' of: .the firmament;
•And'they thab .turnvmanÿ- to .righteousness,; i&à :the stars for ¡.ever-and
; / I - . - : . . e v e r .
;
is occasionally takea aS a text by,.preachers,;ib.ut to, understand and
.explain its true, meaning astrological’
’
knowledge.’
.is indispensable.
The proficiency of.Daniel in the interpretation of visions is dir­
ectly attributable, to the Almighty. . In his visions we meet-with
several references to astrological ideas. .The constellation-sign
of the Ram is appropriately taken as typical of the Medo-Persi.an
power.- The mention of Gabriel, the angel of the Moon, the messenger,
and Mikal, the-angel of the-Sun, the ’
’
.prince’
'
, of Israel, is the out­
come of the Chaldaean doctrine•of■the spirits of the spheres. The
multitudinous .celestial spirits were.believed to have been the spirits
of just men made perfect :
and received into: the starry heavens, so that
in Daniel viii. 10, we find stars == saints, and "they that be wise
shall, shine,*' etc., as already quoted. ¡
.Manilius held the Milky Way
to be the souls of illustrious, men,:and Heraclitus is reported. to
have believed that the soul.is a :
spark taken from the stellar., essence.
M o d e m popular theology has confounded the heaven of stars into which
¿the early Christians believed that the .soul is taken, with the New
Jerusalem, which is merely an allegorical vision of the perfected
'Church. v
.
. Let the'religious .world ponder ..over .the fact that the cruci­
fixion was accompanied.by portents,..and that the. visit of the Magi— -
astrologers---was divinely guided by the Star of Bethlehem, and cease
to.neglect and ignore, as.trologia sana-.--divine study that it really is.
' • . FOOTNOTES.
1. The ancients reckoned the commencement of the Dog Days from
the heliacal rising of Sirius, and their length to be about 40 days.
Hesiod says that the, hottest, season of the year (Dog- Days) ended about
50 days after the Summer Solstice*. Sirius rose heliacally at Alexandria
in the time of Hesiod about: four days after the.Summer Solstice. The
Dog Days now begin on July. 3rd,' or twelve days after the Summer Solstice,
and end on August 11th; hence they nowadays have.no reference whatever
to the heliacal ri sing, of Sirius, for this star rises heliacally.at
London about August 2.6th#’.At the beginning of the ,19th. Century our
Almanacs made the Dog Days, begin at -the cosmica-1.rising ,of'
.Procyon,
Viz., on July. 30th, and continue to .September’
.7th; but they are now
made to depend; :**pon the; Summer Solstiee. .
2. » Sir,-
■
John Herschel ..gave the precession; of the" equinoxes as
50.1*»;, From the.,déclinâtion of.the :
zodiac which La Gentil brought from
India, it appears that the star Aldebaran was 40 minutes before the
vernal equinox in .-5012.;
.-
.Taking .the precession of ;
the equinoxes as 50.1"
we shall find that the value obtained will differ only■SI" from that
given by the Indian astronomers— a fact which proves that their calcula­
tion;.was correct ;and:f§unded.. upon,observation,
..3,.--This -word 4s..probably'r.eompounded of pro and Mars, signifying,
Mar's deputy..op.rlieutenant,
,o r ,
.
one :acting for Mars.1
; 4. fThe Pleiades
are,.I think,;
.not .so ;evilKjtheir influence is.-W:]iild,n as ..described in
the book of Job.. 5. I have repeatedly observed that persons born when
the Moon was with the South Scale*,, were ..very: unfortunate.
115
. CHAPTER XX
THE IMPORt OF THE NATtVI T Y .
"In the eternal volume of the sky
The stars displayed, are characters on high,
Where man may read his future and his fate
iff dim the tale seem *tis his sunken state
~ Unfit by sin, that bright page to descry
Writ by the finger o:
f the Deity.
The Map or Figure of the Heavens being drawn for the true ■
moment of birth, the next proceeding1is -to 'fôma an opinion or judg­
ment upon the indications afforded by the configurations and relative
positions of the Sun, Moon and planets.
Ptolemy says,** respecting the "distribution of the doctrine
of Nativities
"The'questions of the periods Subsequent to the birth'relate
first to' the duration of life (which is distinct from the question
of rearing),' then to the shape and figure'of the body, to the bodily
affections, and to injuries'or defects in th-e members.' Âfter’
these,
further inquiry is instituted' as to the quality of the mind, and the
mental affections; then as to the fortune,- in regard to'rank and
honors, as well as wealth. ■ In succession to these,'-'thé character of
employment or profession is soumit out; then the questions relative
to marriage and offspring, and to1consentaneous friendship, are to be
considered; then, that concerning travel; and lastly, that concerning
t'he kind of death which awaits the native. The question of death,
although depending, in fact, upon the same influence as the question
of the duration of life, seems yet to, find its proper situation in
being placed last in the series.
"On each of the foregoing'points of inquiry, the doctrine and
precepts to be followed shall be thoroughly and succinctly detailed;
but all idle conceits, promulgated by many persons without any found­
ation capable of sustaining the test of reason, shall be utterly
avoided, in deference to t h e ‘
only true agency, which is derived from
primal Nature herself, it is only upon clearly effective influences
that this treatise is established; and all matters which are open to
an authorised mode of inquiry by means of the theory of the stars, and
their positions and aspects with regard to appropriate places, shall
be fully discussed here; but the divination by lots and numbers,®
unregulated by any systematic;catisatl!
on, must'remain unnoticed."
THÎ3’PA&ENIS ': Ï
"In conformity with nature," says Ptolsmy, "the Sun and
Saturn are allotted to the person of the father; and the Moon and
Venus to that of the mother; and the mode in which these luminaries
and planets may be found posited, with reference to each other as
well as to other planets and stars,' will 'intima-te the situation of
affairs affecting the parents."
116
If there happens ;
to be 'a-planet in the mid-heaven and, if
neither the Sun nor Moon is there, it represents the mother; if
there is a planet 'in; ther.foufthrhoiusëj;,-;it;,ip the; significator of the
father.
Ptolemy says' ¿'That the degree/of :
the fortune and wealth of the
parents will:
be--indicated'by the doryphory-^: .or. attendants of the
luminaries. If the1
-luminaries be accompanied...{either in the same
signs in which themselves are.placed, or.in- the-signs next following),
by the benefics, And- by such.- stars, or 'planets, as are of the same
tendency as themselves, a conspicuous and brilliant fortune is pre­
saged; especially should the Sun be attended by matutine stars, and
the Moon by vespertine ,"v etc. - ■
The--'following observations respecting the mother of the
native are from Ptolemy:.-
- ,
1 : "If Mars'-bei suecedent to.the Moon or. Venus,
.or-in quart ile or
opposition to them, or if Saturn be similarly..asp.ec.ted-- to the Moon
only, and both of them be void of course or retrograde, or cadent,
adversb accidents and disease- will attend the mother; should they,
on the'othe-r hand, be. swift -in potion and .placed in angles,- -they por­
tend that-her life will- be- short, or grievously afflicted. Their
position -in--the oriental angles., or succèdent houses, particularly
denotes the- shortness of her life; and in .those which are occidental,
hem affliction-. In the .same manner, .should Mars be thus aspected to
the Moon (and"should that luminary at. the .same time be oriental), the
mother's'sudden death:, or .some, injury in her face or ©yes will be pro­
duced-; and, -if the-Moon-;be then occidental, death, will be occasioned
by miscarriage, in parturition.,: by inflammation, or by wounds, Such
are the' effects which ensue- from these- aspects made by Mars to the
Moon; -but, should he make them to-Venus;, death trill'.then take place
from fever, some latent disease, or sudden sickness, Saturn*s aspect
(quartile or opposition) to the Moon, when she: is oriental, inflicts
on the mother disease, and death, from extreme colds, or fevers; but,
should the Moon be occidental, the danger arises iron affections of
the uterus, or from -consumption."
■ My own experience has shown me repeatedly,, t.hat when the
Moon is afflicted at the birth, of a child, the mother has a bad time
after her accouchement-. ■ This, is the .more likely to result when the
Moon happens to be posited in the IVth or VIIIth house, and afflicted.
For example:— • . .
Case 1.---A mal'e-biiild.,-'i"H.R.P.u was born .-February S8th> 1875,
lat* 54°54' NY, 'long'." 102
4
~
'
.
';W. ' The Moon was in the IVth house, in
1309 f of Sagittary, and less than 5° separated from the conjunction
with Mars. The mother'.was 'séized with metritis, and her life was de­
spaired of by her medical attendants and nurse, and she only recovered
after ■being' as -near death asr
>it is'possible for .any "one to be without
actually succumbing.': - :
- ,
-
.
r r , j..'. ■
2.— -A male child .(stillborn), -
April- 30th, 1 8 7 8 at 3:00 p.m.,
'London. The Moon--in .th.QiVIIIth- h.ouse-, in Afi.es,:in aspect to Mars
117
(éuimi'hating) and Urànùs, Venus setting, in-conjunctidn 'and par.
deci, with Saturn, and also in square to kars. Thé mother'
suffered seriously from haemorrhage, and died, of fever, May 15th,
l8?8 .
3.-
- A male child, ’
’
T.H.B.", was b o m April 24th, 1674, in
■Suhderlandv (The-Moon was in the Xth house, i h :
the'Ï9th degree.of
Léo* in-opposition to Saturn,- and in square to Mats' (in the VIIIth
house). The-mother died in April, 1677. The-child died in.August,
16574.
- 4.— -A male'child, "J.Y.", b ò m October 26th, 1674\ ’6ï25 a.m.,
' in Sunderland. The Moon in square and par. deci, with Sat urn,'“and
in square to Uranus (in the Xth house). The mother died ('Of
pneumonia) two days afterwards; the child lived only 35 hours.
5. — :*A male child, ■"A.” , born February .16th, "'1878', at 4:45 p.m.,
London. The Moon, in the Vllth house, in exact square to Mars in
the IVth house. The mother died three weeks after the child’s birth.
She was a strong and perfectly healthy young lady, and had never
been ill since childhood. ” ' ; ' ,
• ».1 -
i • . . ' »
*»
6. -A male child, "A.3.",‘ born at 11:00 a.m., of April 4th,
1864, in London. The Moon conjoined with Venus, in the IXth house,
-applying to the square of Uranus and’150° from Saturn." The mother
died in a few days, of fever. '
7. -A female child, "D.", born March 10th, 1675., at 11:00 p.m.,
in Sunderland. The Moon in the VIth house, ip.'sesqui-quadrate to
Mars, and applying to the square of Uranus. "Thé mother died, in a
fortnight, of fever.
8. -A female child, "R.", b ò m November 16th, 1672, at 9:05 p.m.,
Sunderland. The Moon in the Xllth house, in opposition to Saturn;
Venus -in the Vth house, in square to Mains. The mother died in a
fortnight, of'puerperal mania.
9. -A male child, born February 16th, 1828, at 7:20 a.m., Roch­
dale. The Moon in square to Mars. The mother died January 29th,1632.
10. -— Miss C., born June 6th, 1643, at 4:03 a.m,; lat. 51o06' N . ,
long. 1 12’ W. The Moon in trine to Saturn,' and applying to the op­
position and par deci. with Uranus, and the square of Mercury. The
mother died between two' and- three hours after thé birth.
11. -Mrs. H.., borri February 17th, 1624, at 6:52 p.m. ,'iat. 53°40'
N., long. 2°27' W. The Moon in conjunction with Mars, and in square
to Uranus and Venus (conjoined). The mother died December ,10th,16329.
12. -Mr. J.j
R., born-Aüigubt 10th, 1840, at 4:54 a,m.‘" ïhe- Mpon
in opposition to MarsC-’
-'ThA mother died May 25th',' 1844.
■13.-
- Miss Si, born August 18th, 1838, London'.The Moon "under
the Sun’s beams," and in par. deci, with Mars. Venus in par. deci.
.,
with Mapsj-jai$f in. (mundane.),square,, .to Sati+rp.^ .The¡mother,diqdN
May 31st,. 1843, ^ ' .
.
. .
.
.
.
.
. , 7 , 7 7 777” 77,- '..." :
.." 7"
Now let us proceed to investigate"the doctrine'that! the
Sun and Saturn represent the father:---
.
'
. Case.. 14..--^-Dr. C..T..P*bom!,August,.llth,’ ISIS, at"?:#©. a.m.,
London* The Sun nearly .in opposition with' Saturn, and inrtrine
...•with Mars;’and Uranus close-to the:lower meridians.7 ;The father
died in June, 1820.
15. — -Dr. A . , born February 3<y,v1837,;at .4:00 a.m., lat. 51°25' N.
the Sun in square .to Saturn, and ip'QppQ.sitibp to Mars and Jupiter.
His father,died during Dr. A*s infancy, 7 7,
16. -The Princess Beatrice, born April 14th, 1857, at 1:45 p.m.,
Buckingham.Palace. The Sun in.conjunction.with Jupiter and Mercury,
and applying to conjunction \<Mth Mays .(within 14°).. ‘
'The Prince
Consort died on December i4.th, 1S61.
17. -The ex-Q,ueen Isabella' of Spain, born October 10th, 1830,
at 2:00 p.m. The Sun in par. decl. with Mars and Mercury. Her -
father died September .29th, 1833. , ,
. r.
t* •
• * *
•• • .
18..-
- L e ’
Comte de Paris,’born August '24th, 1838, at 2:45 p.m.,
Paris. The Sun in semi-quartile to Mars,, and in opposition to Uranus.
His father died July 13th, 1842.
l ■
19. -A male child, born March 9th, 1862, at 6:45 a.m., Hastings.
The Sun in opposition...to Saturn, .and square to Uranus. His father,
& fisherman, was drowned in the evening of the same day, while endeav­
oring to enter Portsmouth harbour during a gale. It will be observed
that the Sun was in Pisces, a "watery" sign.
20. -E.M.H. born September. 17th, 1822, at 9:37 a.m., near Rother­
ham. The Sun in sesqui-quadrate to. Saturn, (angular), in semi-quart ile
to Mars (angular), and applying to quartile with Uranus. He* father
died June 28th, 1827. ,
-
21. -Mr. J. K„ b o m January 4th, 1844, at 1:39' p.m., Liverpool.
The Sun within 4° of the rapt parallel, -
of Mars, and applying to con­
junction with Saturn. His father, died October' 23d, 1847.
22. -Mr,- D»;Le y., bprn(September 8th, 1828, at'4:00 a.m., Jersey
The Sun in semi-quartile to Saturn, in sesqui-quadrate with Uranus,
and ¡in conjunction with.Mercury vqnd. Jupiter. His father died January
.
7 .224,
: 18341.* 7/ ...7i;
777:;7 7 7 '
;
. 7 7.
’23 to’25.---Three'children S6rn, respectively, May 7th, 1868, at
.5:55 p.m.; November 9th, ;187-1, at 11:20 p.m.; and October 3d, 1869, at
*5:40"p.m.7':l4 joi.'fhe 'first-born the Sun in par.decl. with
Saturn. I n ‘
the'Second,' the' Sun in semi-quartile with Mars and Saturn
(conjoined). I;
n,the third, tiie^Sun in square with Unanus. Their
'father' 'died._Sept'ember.':8tX7.1S|$.7- - 7. ..'77.77*
119
'2&.-r-i-Mrs. F., born-Apri 1 6th, 1822', at 9:25 p.m. .The-.Sun-in
•
•
■
■
’
-paEvdeclv-with Mercury and Saturn, in trine with Mars,' in oppbsi-
■tion -with the Moon, and separating from the square of Uranus,'.
*
■ The-father died in February or-March, 1829. . •
27.-
- A male child, S., born April 23d, 1877, at 10:25 p.m.,
Sunderland. The Sun ‘
in square with Mars and- in trine with Jupiter.
His father died Septanber 23d;
, 1877.
: ■ The foregoing'nativities .present a formidable array of facts
, in<support of the. aphorism of Ptolemy in. respect to the probable fate
of the parents, as indicated by the configurations of the Sun. and
Saturn in the one case, and of the Moon and "Venus in the other. It
■ cannot, however,. :be affirmed that the.-aphorism is always true, namely,
- that when the Sun and-.Saturn are afflicted the father will inevitably
di.e early, and-when the Moon and Venus are afflicted at the birth of
a ohild., that the.mother will soon die. The threatened evil may fall
in-some other-way. . .
"Medical men may take the horoscope of-a child and. oonsider
it as a figure for the decumbiture of the mother, and watch the
effects of .the configurations of the Moon, her positions in the figure,
and the. aspects she forms on the critical days; of-.the following four
weeks.
I cannot coincide with Wilson’s view that the luminaries
..are'
significators. of.the parents only in a general way; and that if
the luminaries-;
are in good Or. evil condition, the native and every­
thing belonging..to him mll.be. the same. . In some cases, the early
death of the father may be-a positive benefit: to the child; and many
people who have lost both parents early in life have prospered greatly
through the kind care of relatives or friends. There can be no doubt
that the mid-heaven of a nativity bears some relation toithe parents;
and in rectifying a nativity we have occasionally to take.an evil
aspect of Saturn or Mars to the ascendant or mid-heaven, to" account
for the death of a parent.
THE DURATION OF LIFE.
Ptolemy’s rule in regard to children who are insusceptible
of nurture, has been quoted already, in the eighth chapter. In regard
to the probable duration of life Ptolemy says:---
”0f all events whatsoever which take place after birth,-the most
essential is the continuance of life; and as it is, of course, useless
•to consider, in cases wherein the life of a child does not extend to
the period of one year, what other events contingent on its birth might
otherwise have subsequently happened, the inquiry into the duration
of life consequently takes precedence of all other questions. The dis­
cussion of this inquiry is by no means simple, nor-easy of execution;
it is conducted in a diversified process, by means of the governance
of the ruling p l a c e s ;
•
The prorogatory, or HYLE&IACAL places are,, says Ptolemy: —
120
’
•The sign on the angle of the ascendant, from the fifth degree
..aboVeotiie horizon;-to the t'wenty-'fifth''degree-below:
it;' 'the' thirty
degrees: :
in•
dexter isextile thereto, constituting the eleventh 'house;
algo the thirty-'degrees in-dexter 'quartile, forming the mid-heaven
above the earth; those:in dexter trine making the ninth house; 'and,
lastly, those in opposition, belonging to the angle of the west.”
. "Among these places,' the degrees'.'which constitute the mid-heaven
are entitled to preference, as being of :
a more potent or paramount
influence; the degrees in the ascendant are next in virtue; then the
degrees.in' the eléventh house,-succèdent to the mid-heaven; then those
in the angle of the west; and, lastly, those in the ninth house, which
precedes the mid-heaven."
. Ptolemy says that "the Sun, the Moon, the Ascendant, and
the Part of Fortune are to be- considered, as the:four principally
.liable to be elected to the office of prorogator"-— or EYLEG.6
Zadkiel I held that "the Suh-'is always hyleg and'has chief rule over
the life, when in any of the hylegiacal places; but if he be not there,
and the Moon be, then she is hyleg. When neither luminary is such, I
prefer to consider the ascending degree as the iiyleg."
I think it is very■doubtful1
whether the Sun is hyleg when in
the first, half of the eleventh house. I prefer to c'onsidèr thé Sun
hyleg only after he has passed his semi-quartile to the M,C. in the
eleventh house. The same remark applies to the Moon. .
- The nativity of Philip III of Spain, computed by Placidus,
is mentioned by'Wilson,7 and he-claims that thé prolonged course of
the disease of which that- monarch died, and which he says vías due to
.the direction of the Moon to' the declination of Mercury seven years
before his death, shows that, "there is a strong probability that the
luminaries, and particularly the Moon, are at all times aphetical; and
■that there is more probability of their'being so than even the horo­
scope." Nevertheless, Wilson admits that, "the direction of the horo­
scope to the square of Saturn was apparently the more immédiate cause
of death." Wilson also states that "the Sun in the nativity had the
declination of Mars, and was in zodiacal square by the interchange of
the evil effects of the -two infortunes; and although they were both
under the earth, I have no doubt that they were both hylegiacal." If
■the luminaries were both hylegiacal,- how is it -that Philip attained
the age.-of 42. years. H months? ;-The Moon' had the declination of Saturn
and was hastening to the opposition- -of Mars; -it' is 'true' that she had
the sextile of Jupiter, but this weak aspect could not overcome either
the.affliction, of the:Sun or her-;
Own. '
* '
.
'
•
• The "Part- of Fortune” is an absurdity-in nativities, 'and it
: .
cannot he,.hyleg under any circumstances; .Zadkiel I never regarded it
us. hyleg,. . -
.
- v
- V
-
y
.
'
-
r
. • : : : "
. ■ A modern.-writer-propounded the absurd'idea that the Sun.is
....always; hyleg in a .
-
.
m
a
n
-
»S'nativity';' and tixe Mopn in'V,'woman* s; tie-,
ascendant never being hyleg under any cireumstáHcéá -whateverî
‘ dominent
on such an absurdity would be superfluous ; suffice it t
.
o say that no
.
.
.
...facts.-in e.viâep®.-e--.ofic-its':^e3^-ty- were- prèsentéd -fôf examination,
121
My- own experience lead? me io believe that the limit of
5° above thé ascendant^ should be.extended to 156 (measured by
* -oblique ascension), as 'a’hyie'giAca'i placé for the Sun. , It .certain­
ly seams more in accordance’
'with reason that the luminaries -should
be more hylegiacal wharf they happen to be above ,
than when below the
,.ihorizah. -We know thât the liooh is. the chief ruler, oyer- the physical
-1 .faculties, and that in order to enjoy the possession of a perfectly
-sound-and healthy Mconstitution,”,it is. necessary that .the.Moon be
•* absolutely-free from-afflictibn.'.at .birth. ’
\Ht the birth of the .late Prince Consort the Moon had the
sextile of the Sun---a configuration of which Schiller, writes thus: —
: * "And Sun and Moon, too, in the sextile aspect,
The soft light with the .yeh’
.ment--so .I;love it
This happy aspect, combined with the approximate parallel declina­
tion af the Moon 'arid Venus, tended to strengthen the physique and
vital stamina. The mundane quartiie of Venus, the zodiacal quajrtile
.of Jupiter, and the zodiacal s0mir.quartiie of Uranus .to the Moon
-.could produce nothing prejudicial to' the .health, -beyond occasional
attacks of malaise arising from plethora; and, in fact,’ the aspects
of Venus and Jupiter to the.Moon would'help, to- fortify the consti­
tution. But, on the other h a n d b o t h the Sun (hyleg) and :the Moon
■ had.ithe. quadr'a-sextile of Saturn; :and the' ascending.
planet, Mercury,
had the quartiie of Mars (in the mid-heaven) and Uranus (in the
northern angle),- and was applying to. the_ opposition of Saturn (in
the western-aiglé ), rèceiting assistance only from Venus by semi-
sextile .aspect. Heiice the Prince succumbed in his 43d year ;to.a
malady (typhoid fever) plainly indicated by the affliction.-of
. - Mercury in-Virgo; and by the affliction of the Sun and.Moon by,
Saturn, The affliction of Mercury was also indicative.of the
attacks of croup_ from; which the'Prince suffered in. early life,
In the nativity of Goethe the Sun was hyleg, and, happily,
free, from affliction. The narrow escape, which Goethe himself re­
cords, from asphyxia at birth, was indicated by the evil Saturn
ascending. - ,
The following cases will be found to illustrate the result
of the.hyleg being'much'afflicted at. birth:— .
.
Case 1, - - -_-A male child,,
.
born .February..Sd*. 1871, at 5:21 p.m. ,
Sunderland. •*ThS MOon (hyleg) In .the,,.XI>
thi house; in Cancer ,10^05’
in. opposition to' Saturn '.(in 'Capricorn .5°S9‘ ;
in square t
o
.
;Mars (in
Libia- 7°55*’
;), and having the 'par.' decl. of Saturn,'. Jupiter and Uranus.
The Sun-,had the trine of Jupiter. The child died on May 23d, 1873,
of tbroncho-:
pneumonia. , ' .... r
2..-— A male child-, born August. 26th, 1873,'at 10:30.p.m,, Sund­
erland. The-ascendant was hyleg.- Uranus 'in conjunction .with Mercury,
on the nadir,:'-in mundane-square to the ascendant.’.Saturn-and Mars in
par,, decl. with ascendant, This child died December 29th, 1874, of
whooping cough and bronchitis,
12s
L
.
„
'
. t 3é---A female..child,...born December ,15th, .11366, at 6:40 p.m.,
I^ndop.„ ;
;
yiie Mooii .(hyleg) on the In'¿m&&a£e’
>qifere. to Mars
..•■(rising), in sesqui--quadrate to Saturn,- i.n‘
'square"tQ.'Ü^ahú?^ ..and
, in .sextile .to Jupiter. . 'The child 'died"'iri January A 1871, ..pf;."
..malignant scarlatina (a martial disease}.’
, "
,
■i. .
.
. 4.r— Á faaaie child, born December ,19th, 1869, at 7:35 a.mj,
Sunderland. .Thp, .Sun (hyleg) rising in conjunction.with'Saturn, in
opposition to the Moon, and ;
havihg the .parallel decl.'of Mars'and
Uranus. This child died January 25th, '1872. Sixteen days before
her death ;
she.;
was attacked with measles., erysipelas followed, and
hydrocephalus supervened.
5;
.-??-A male .child, born June 9th, 1871, at.10:35 a.m., Sunder-
. land., 'The Sun (hyleg) in'square to.Mars"and"the Moon, and in par.
decl. with Saturn, Uranus, Jupiter, and'Venus. The Moon, setting,
in.opposition to Mars. This child died of smallpox in.July, 1871.
5.— A female child, bom'June. 29th,. 1871,. at 2:45'a.m,Sunder- *
land. . The Sun (hyleg) in conjunction 'with Jupiter, in opposition to
Saturn, in square to Mars,^and in’
.par,decl. with Saturn, Uranus,
Jupiter, and Mercury. ,The lipón'..in. semi-quartile to Saturn, in. square
to Vends, and in sesqui-quadrate,,to the. Sun. The child died of
. atrophy (congenital), August'31st, 1871.
7, -— A male child, born July..4th’
,
'
■
.
1872, at 4:30 a.m., Sunderland.
The Sun'(hyleg) in opposition to Saturn, and in par. decl, with
.Saturn, Uranus, arid Venus.. The Moon iri conjunction with Mars, in the
XIIth house. ' Mercury rising in .opposition to ’
Saturn. This hhild
died of phrenitis .
following measles, Hovember 28th, 1873.-. ’.'.).
'• -- •
• \ ' '•
' •- f■
8. -A.male child, born. August 7th, ’
1.973',9:05; a.m., Sunderland.
The Sun (hyleg) in close square' to'Mars, .
.The. Moon in the IVth house
in exact conjunction with Saturn. 'This 'child died of convulsions,
August 14th, 1873, . . . .
_
. 9.-
- A male child, born 'SeptemShr’1st, ’
1872, at 10.00. p,m., Sund­
erland. Mars and Uranus on the"lower heaven in mundane square to the
ascendant (hyleg) and Saturn in par.decl. with the ascendant. The
child .died, of diphtheria.,...June 30th, .1874.
10.---A m a l e child, born April 30th, 1875, at 1:40 a.m., Sunder­
land. .The Moon (hyleg) in exact.conjunction with Saturn, in the ascend
’,
'
a
r
i
t
. This child died of marasmus..and 'bronchitis, February ,15th, 1876.
,,.ll.— -A female child, born March 29t'h, 1859, at 7:00 a.m. , London.
'.TThe Moon, (hyleg) in opposition and';par, decl,' with Saturn and in
square ‘
to Mars (rising). The child died October 16th, 1864,.
12.— A male child* born. October 17th, 186b, 1:10 a.m., London.
The'ascendant w a s ’
hylegJ-the M<»n being ori tiie cusp of the VLth bouse,
in' conjunction with’Jupiter and more, t.haii 6°' separated, from the op­
position of Mars. Saturn was on.the'nadir, in mundane 'square,, and
also in par. decl. with the''ascendant . ..I'he child died, in convulsions,
April 7th, 1867.
123
13. -— A female child, born May 7th.; I860, at 4 i45 a.m. North­
ampton. The Sun (hyleg) rising--ip. mundane square to Mars {.on the
zenith), in mundane square and zodiacal sextile' to Jupiter (on the
nadir and in opposition to Mars), and also in zodiacal square and
in par. decl. with Saturn (in Leo). The Moon in opposition to
Uranus. This child died of spinal disease, August 12th, 1862.
14. — -A female child, born-.February 2lst, 1876, at 11:15 a.m.,
Sunderland. The Sun (hyleg) in conjunction with Saturn., and in par.
decl. with Mars. The Moon in the 7111th house in square to'Mars.
Uranus on the nadir in mundane square to the ascendant. The child
died of scarlatina, October 26th, 1876.
15. --A female child, born August 13th, 1878, at 0:17:16 a,m.,
Edinburgh, the Moon (hyleg) on the zenith eclipsed, in opposition
to Uranus and Mars, and in semi-quartile to Saturn. This child
died of diarrhoea, August 25th, 1878. The doctor describes her as
of average size and healthy when born.
The foregoing cases are beyond dispute. The exact moment
of birth was taken for the purpose of scientific inquiry, in every
instance, by a medical gentleman. All the children— with one excep­
tion— were apparently healthy, and of average size when bo m . Cases
of children born prematurely, and those whose moments of birth were
not observed by a professional man, have not been given, or the list
could have been considerably augmented. The sole aim being the
elucidation of truth, all cases in which the data were opah to any
doubt, have been rigidly excluded. We wait with confidence for a
thorough examination of this question. The result cannot be doubt­
ful. Opponents of the ancient science of astrology never appeal
to facts, but content themselves with empty declamation against
what they term "superstition" of believing in it. If we ask one
them to produce facts in proof of his assertion that it is a false
science, he forthwith beats a retreat, and refuses to break a lance
with us. To such a carpet-knight the words of the Marquis of
Montrose are exceedingly appropriate:-—
"He only fears his fate too much
Or his deserts are small,
Who dares not put it to the touch
To gain or lose it all.”
F00IN0TES
1. "Fragment of Chaucer Modernised:" from MISCEILANEOUS POEMS,
by R. J. Gilman, Esq.. 2. Book III, Chap.”iv. . 3. .This is an
allusion to the ancient’practice of divination by lots. Reference to
Acts iv., 24 to 26, will show that" the Apostles practised this form
of divination. Joseph’s cup,, which was found in Benjamin's sack, was.
the silver cup used for divining, just as the Mussulman in India, at
the present day, practice divination. 4. This word has been here­
tofore rendered"satellitium", and""satellites” , but as these terms
do noV .signify the minor orbs which revolve round a principal planet,
1
3
.
4
.
,
;
.. Lrlaave ventured. tp.:
; Anglicise;. the. G-reek word-,, .the ^susl ..aigridfica-
.tion o f ;*riiich.;.Is.-.a *body-gardw —Note- b y - A s h m a n d . .. • •
fi.. ;
,.Vide, ’’Star Lora,’’, November 1897 .
, art. ..'’'Tfee H y le g la c a l-•
Places.T
' • ,v;,• ■
■
■ •
,-/ •
•
•
'.•■7. Dictonary of Astrology, page: Slg.-*... , ;
Schiller-'s.. Wallenstein, Coleridge’ s translation. ..
((Noteir.I
,
t¿will b
e
. noted that,pootnotes are numbered i
n
..sequence for
.
.
e
a
c
h
, chanter,, but in-the original ,eopy, some .footnotes are not■
given
even-when ,
s
o
.marked. ) . . _ . .
... . t
r,r.t
*
;
c m
t
.
.
i . .«\
*
j
•>
.
*
•
>’
IE5
CHAPTER XXI
PHYSICAL CONSTITUTION AND TEMPERAMENT
"The stars er 'man's poor trivial body ride,. .
And raise or lower it easier than.,a tide.’1
---THE ACHILLEAD.
The form and temperament of the body are to be_.-judged, said
the ancients, from the ascendant or planet rising at birth,..and the
Moon’s position and configuration. The particular influences of the
Sun, .Moon,' planets, and signs of' the zodiac,; and the- effects imputed
to them,'respectively, on the-'form and temperament of the human body,
haye already been described.It now remains for. .us to consider how
.far the description given by the best-authors may be relied upon. In
-
,regard to stature the' testimonies are very conflicting.
. Ptolemy says:1 ~
."Men. of tall stature have their lords., of nativity in elevation,
and their asbendants in the beginnings of signs; but'the lords of men
of short stature will be found in declination (or, in obscure situa­
tions),. It must, also be seen whether the signs be right or oblique.”
This aphorism cannot hold good in regard to the so-called
"lord” of the ascending sign unless he happen to be within 5° above or
'below the Eastern horizon. Sven in this case, :
I cannot, from my own
experience, voubh for its accuracy; indeed I regard this question of
stature as one that has never been satisfactorily solved. I have
known tall men'who were b o m with -Cancer"or Scorpio..ascending; and I
have known men of very short stature who'were b o m with Leo rising,
whereas we are.told that Gancer-and-Scorpio produce short stature, and
that Leo produces tallness. I have never known'but one very tall
person born with Venus rising. Ramesey avers.-that "the Ma.rtialist
doth seldom exceed in height,” and is usually of low stature. I have
known several Mars-men who were-tall— -one of them was b o m with Mars
and Jupiter rising in Scorpio. G-enerally speaking, I have observed
that-the superior planets^ give tall stature; Venus.short"stature;
Mercury'and the Moon, according to their- configurations;, and the Sun,
usually, tall stature.
In judging of personal appearance, from the nativity, the
difficulty lies in balancing fairly the opposing influences, and in
.comprehending the complex'rules o-f the ancients. The ever-varying
face of the heavens renders this problem, like .every other in judicial
astrology, very difficult of solution; indeed, when the fallible nature
of humân* Judgment is-also considered,, the wonder, is., not-.that astrol­
ogers.-sometimes fail to correctly describe persons whom they have never
seen, merely from an inspection of their nativities; but, rather, that
they'ever succeed.' 'As Wilson observed:-
- •
'’
’
That thé position o
f
- the heavens-has such an effect is abundantly
manifest , from the resemblance "of children "bom nearly; together, where­
as the offspring of the same parents, born.
at a distant-period under a
126.
different constitution of the heavens, are essentially and
wholly unlike both in body an^'fmim(I;,,
'3 •
/.J
t■*
sometimes
The difficulty lies in comprehending the rules of the ancients
as handed.down to .us. by Claudius Ptolemy,-for he .appears to revel in
that mysticism of which the Magi were so enamoured.
The nativities of the late Prince Consort and the late King
Edward VII are well marked, and are forcibly illustrative of the fact
.that the ascending planet and sign impress- their ..characters upon the
person'1
and nature. • •:
. • .■
• :Diseases and accidents are Judged from the planets.which may
happen to be rising or setting.: and those .in configuration, with the
ascending degree or luminaries. "Ptolany tells us to consider also the
•planets (if .any), in the.
sixth house. His reason is .
that the Vlth house,
in nativities,. !
i
'
S "inconjuncf with the ascendant." The same remark
would also apply to the eighth house. But since the quadra-sextile
aspect (five houses, or 150° distance in':longitude) has been discov­
ered to have some influence, the cusps of the sixth and eighth houses
can n o .longer be considered as inconjuncf'-with the ascendant. Any
apparent effect .arising from, an infortune'.posited on the- cusp of the
sixth would,-therefore, be traceable to-its mundane aspect to the
ascendant; and, for the same reason, similar effects should be-trace­
able to an evil planet located on the cusp of the eighth house.
Ptolemy held that oriental planets-signify- accidents rather
than disease. The .author's experience has'.shown' that, oriental planets
■sometimes produce diseases as-well as accidents'. Por .example.:-—
,
,
J,P.L»", born February 26, 1847, at 3:23 a.m., lat. 53°4?' N.
Mars was in the ascendant, a
t
.
, this man's birth, in-the sign Capricorn,
and .in square to.Uranus.. He -broke a thigh.at twenty years old.
Disease of the knee-joint came on in his twenty-third year* necessi­
tating amputation, '
In regard.to blindness Ptolemy says:---
"Blindness of one eye m i l ensue, when the Moon-.may be in the
ascendant or descendant, either operating her conjmiction-(with the
Sun) or being at the full; it will also happen should she be config­
urated with the Sun in any other proportional aspect, and be at the
•same time connected with any one of the nebulous collections in the
zodiac; such as- the cloudy spot-of Cancer, the Pleiades^ of Taurus,
the arrow-head of Sagittarius,'the-..sting-of Scorpio, the parts about
the mane of Leo-, .or the .uni .'of,
Aquarius.- ' Moreover, both eyes will be
injured should- the ¿loon be ;in ¡an Tangle, and -in her''decrease, and- Mars
.•or Saturn, .bqihg màtutiney ascend.. In. succession -tb her; or,' again, if
the; Sun be in an .angle,, and. thesp planets pre-'ascend ¡before him;- and
be configurated with-:
both the:luminaries-,' vihether thé. luminaries be in
one and the same sign, -or :in opposition'^‘
-provided, also,-the said
planets, although oriental of the Sun, be occidental of the Moon.
ITpder these circumstances, therefore:
, Mars vd-ll-Pause' blindness by a
stroke or a,.blow; /or b
y
,
*
.
t
h
,
e
.
:
'
.
sword; -or'bÿ--burning; and-,-i f 'hê;
'be-'con­
figurated with Mercury,, if-'will-be-effected ¡either-in a- 'place of
127
-.•exercise or sport, or by the assault of robbers."'Saturn, however,
.Under the same circumstances, produces blindness by cataract, or
■ cold, by a white film, or by other similar disorders.
Let us examine the truth of these remarks ih the light of
-facts.
Case 1.— The lady whose time of birth is given at page 118
(Case 13), had the Moon in Leo ll°10’j with 4:°08? N . lat., vepy
near the Asselli, under the beams of the Sun' (operating her conjunc­
tion), and in square with Saturn. Loss of sight of the right5 eye
resulted from a series of abscesses beginning in the 8th year. .
2.-— Mr. R.H., born June 2, 1826, at 7:00 p.m. , Leeds. The
Moon, on the cusp'of the sixth-in opposition with'Mars and semi-
■quartile with Saturn. This gentleman lost the sight.of his left eye,
.but I do .not know either the date or the cause of the privation. 5
3 .-
- Mrs. A.D., b o m March 17, 1817, at 0:28 p.m.,
. in lat..
N. This .lady became totally blind, gradually, from 48 to' 54 years of
age,, and. remained so until her death in 1878; she also suffered from
...cancer of the breast, the sign Cancer rising at her birth. . The Moon,
operating her conjunction, in Pisces, in semi-quartile with Mars, and
in square with Uranus. .
4. --The late King George V, of Hanover, born May 27, 1819,,.at
4:40 p.m., Berlin. The Moon--in square xvith Mars '
; the Sun in semi-
quartile with Mars, and near the mundane square of Saturn. .The Moon, *
-
moreover, was within 5° of thè semi-quartile.of the1Sun. Mars was in ‘‘
the VIth house, and in Aries, which rules the head.' The injury to the
eye, in 1832, which eventually caused blindness, occurred under the
primary directions of Sun semi-square'Moon-mundane., converse lS^lB’,
, and Sun semi-square Mars mundane, converse l3°24'. It must.
not' .be
. overlooked that Mars was in mundane parallel to'Mercury, at birth,
producing, as Ptolemy avers, "blindness-by a stroke or a blow, in a
place of exercise or sport." 'The injury occurred while the late king
was playing with a purse, receiving a blow on the eye from it.
5. --Natus, May 29, 1812, at 2:00 a.m. , in lat. 53°48' N. Saturn
on the upper meridian in par. dec. with the Sun. The Moon separating
from her conjunction with the Sun, and applying to conjunction with
Mars. This man was born blind; and his'lower limbs were defective from
birth, being drawn up under him and paralysed (Saturn in Capricorn).
The .next .point investigated by "Ptolemy is privation of the
faculty of speech. He says:— '
I ,
■
,
•
.
-
. "I&,Saturn '
and Mercury-, in •■conjunction' with the Sun, h
-
Q. in the
before-mentioned àngledY the native'will have some, defect in the.
.tongue, and, stamraer or'speak'with'difficulty;' especially if Mercury
...be occidental-, and both-he-and Saturò configurated y/ith therMoon.
Should Mq-rs,.. however, be found '
■
'
'
together'*ith. 'them, ,,he Vail for .the:
most, part,.-..remove the- defect in the'tongue', 'after“the ..Moon shall, have
completed, her approach to him.'" ; _ •
.
v . A cousin of the authors was horn.;.(^a®qary. 4, ;.1834,.,.-at
■1,0:55 -p.m., London) a deaf mivte,;
-
: Saturn :
:
wa$- in ■
.
.
t
h
e
.
,ascendant.-, in
square with the Sun, in- the-IVth h o u s e M e r q u r y .was- conjoined,;.with
Mars and Venus; and the Suii, Mars, Mercury, and Venus were in para-
■llel deQlination with each -oth^iv •MajjEy,;physj;
cians and surgeons were
consulted, but none of them could effect a cure. His intellect was
of a high order, and he possessed considerable mechanical skill.
.....Ptolemy next- proceeds to instruct, his-disciples in the
causes of paralysis, etc., thus;^*— v.c.vi: .
’
’
Should the malefics be in.-angles,-.-and, ¡thb-luminaries,- either
together or in opposition, be brought up to them; or, if the malefics
be brought up to the luminaries,•
•especially when the Moon may be in
her nodes, or in extreme latitude, or/;;ln.obnoxious signs, such., as
Aries,-Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, and-Capricorn, the body will then be
afflicted, with excrescences r distortions-, ,lameness, or paralysis.
”If the malefics be-in- conjunction with the luminaries, the
calamity-will take effect -from the very moment of.birth; but, should
they be. in the mid-heaven, in elevation above the luminaries, or in
opposition ,
to each other, it will then arise out of some great and
dangerous accident; such as a fall from some height or precipice, or
an attack of robbers, or of quadrupeds. And thus, if Mars hold dom­
inion, he will produce the misfortune by means of fire or wounds,
through quarrels or by robbers;
,and- -if...Saturn, it m i l be caused by
■
¿.fall, by shipwreck, or by.,convulsive-fits or spasms.
. "Mercury, also, will contribute to the increase of the evil; thus,
if he be in familiarity with Saturn, he will muph.augment the coldness,
and promote the continuance of rheumatism, and the distrubance of the
fluids; especially in -the chest,- throat, and stomach. If in familiar­
ity with Mars, he will tend to produce greater dryness, and will in­
crease ulcers,; abscesses, loss of hair., erysipelas, tetters, blackness
of bile, insanity, epilepsy, and similar disorders.
’
’
Under the circumstances above detailed, the disease or hurt will
be incurable, provided there shall bo not one of the benefics in con­
figuration with the. malefics which effect the evi.l, nor-with the lumin­
aries posited in angles; and even though the benefics may be so con­
figurated, the misfortune will still be incapable of remedy, if the
malefics be well fortified, and in;elevation above them."
Here we have some well-defined rules to guide us in our judg­
ment in r.es.pec.t■to disease; the question arises.:;,-. Are-.they borne out
by''experience? Let us ascertain:-
-
, Case'.V.~lames,R.T. , born August 13, 1861, at 0:30 a.m. , Monk-
wearmouth.” .Suffered from epilepsy from birth; -had been under medical
treatment with no permanent benefit. Occasionally he became maniacal.
The Sun’
,
ih .-conjunction-with Mars,- in Leo,' a^id in square with the‘
Moon,
in Scorpio’
. Mercury In par. dec.-.-with the Mpon-,- which luminary par­
takes ’
.of"the-nature .¡of Mars and the Sun.,by; reason of her configuration
with them. Saturn vitiates both Jupiter.and-Venus by his conjunction
with thorn.
129
t F
.
.W JV
f
,•born" Novanber ;
24"£''lB7t), 6-tUO -'a*mA-, London. The
"Sun in'the ascendant,- in conjunction with M'ercurÿ, and in' par..,dec.
with Saturn1ànd U r a n u s . Mars in'the mid-heaven, elevated above all
the heavenly bodies. The Moon in conjunction.with Saturn., ip square
with Mars, in opposition, with Jupiter, having the par. dec. with
Mercury, Saturn, Jupiter,- and Uranus. He suffered with attacks of
epilepsy every fortnight, often coming on when he was asler
ep,
Medical treatment proved of no avail. ;T --;
'3 ,--.>Ë.M."', b o m November-11, 1857 ,
’
'at 5 :Q0.,a.m., Northampton.
The'Moon (hyleg) in conjunction with Mars. Saturn on ’
the .upper mer­
idian, in mundane square with Venus-,' rising. .The evil Saturn .was
elevated above all the heavenly 'bodiesV This, child died, May 23,
1861. He never had the proper'
-
l
i
é
e
-
'
O'f his limbs, and he was- so-weak
that he was always in ;
the recumbent, posture. . He suffered much with
his throat, being only able to swallow liquids' (Uranus in Taurus,
in the eighth house).
4. --"A.C.", b o m June 6 , 1831, midnight, Northampton,. Uranus
conjoined with Jupiter, rising,, in opposition to Saturn, setting;
Ma r s ’
•
in "the sixth house in square with the Moon,, and- in par. dec.
with the Sun. The Sun on the lower meridian in mundane square with
Saturn (in Leo), Uranus and Jupiter- (in Aquarius). He was paralysed
from 3 years and 10 months old, when he had a severe fall and broke
a thigh, and also lost his speech and hearing for eleven years.
5. --"B", born June 18, 1838, at 9:05 p.m., Northampton. Saturn
on the upper meridian, in opposition with the Moon. She had para­
lysis of the lower extremities from birth.
6. --"A.D.M.", born August 7, 1855, at 2:40 p.m., South Shields.
The Moon in Gemini, in par. dec. with Mars and Saturn. Mars had
risen, in Cancer, just before birth, and Saturn was in Gemini, and
in the XLlth house, receiving the application of the Moon. This
young man was m m over by an engine, on the Hartlepool line, and lost
an arm and a leg. On the day of the accident (July 6 , 1866), the
Sun was passing over the exact place of Mars at birth. The
"direction" operating was Asc. par. Saturn zod., con. 10°57'.
A young lady who was born when Saturn was exactly setting
in the sign Leo, in opposition to the ascending degree (hyleg) suf­
fered from birth until she was over nineteen years of age, with a
spinal complaint, which kept her lying down, and was pronounced in­
curable by several specialists who treated the case from time to
time without success. The author encouraged the parents of the poor
sufferer to hope for a cure being effected by the vis medicatrix
naturae in her twentieth or twenty-first year, when she would have
a long train of benefic primary directions coming into operation in
her favour. She recovered at twenty years old almost suddenly, and
is strong and well now.
The cases enumerated above furnish us with ample evidence
of the truth of Ptolemy’s observations respecting the major bodily
diseases and accidents. It is open to the opponents of astrology to
bring counter evidence---if they can find any. The important question
130
,,,pf physical well-being as indicated, or contra-indicated.,, by the
, -relative positions.of the Sun, Moon, and planets, is deserving of
\ > the most extended observation on the. part of philosophers-and the
77 •medical profession.^. .
•
*
vt•
f
1. Aphorism'Ll!
P00TN0T33
f Saturn ,so ietime-s produces short stature, .when, .rising at
.biriib,, owing' t<
p spinal curvature, or some, defect? .in the legs; also,
when\in opposition to the Moon, and located on the. upper-meridian.
A. gentleman, well’
'known to the author, who was born with Saturn
rising.in Cancer, is considerably above the middle height.
3. Dictionary of Astrology, p a g e 151,.
4. There is reason to doubt this effect, as far as regards
the Pleiades. ;
.
■ .
5. ' The Moon is said to govern the left eye of a man, and-the
!
right '
.
¡
e
y
e of a woman. . ‘
6. Vide Star .Lore, October 1897, p. 154 for. this horoscope.
131
CHAPTER XXII
TH E‘m ind AND'DlSP'O-SiTiON. .
"How. little do :
we know that which, we arel .
How less. ,wljat we may bo!"— -HERON
Mercury has chief dominion over the mental faculties; the
rsentient, and also, the:
.
.
:
passions, are governed by tiie Moon and the
.-ascendant:.. The manners and disposition are alap ¡.chiefly influenced
by the ascendant and the Moon.
That the planet Mercury rules the rational and intellectual
faculties has bean recognised in all ages of the world, and it has
ever, been known that in order to be possessed of .
mens sana i n -
corpore
sano, both Mercury and the Moon must be strong, free from affliction,
and connected either with each other or with the ascendant, and with
Jupiter, Mars, or Venus.
.The mutual configuration of the Mpon .with Mercury 4 s>- •
un~
doubtedly, very desirable. .The angular position especially in..the
ascendant is the best ''dignity*' that Mercury can possess. Experience
.teaches us. that Mercury is stronger sodiacally, when located in either
Gemini *r Virgo than when in other signs, but it. by no means follows
that he is weak when in Sagittary or Pisces. ,At Sir Isaac Newton's
birth Mercury was in Sagittary and in quartile with Jupiter .
.
a
n
d Saturn
conjoined in Pisces.
.f .■ ■ ., ■* . .
When Mercury and the Moon' happen to be configurated with
several planets, the person .then born will (it is averted by seme
authors) be very unsettled and unstable in. disposition— "Everything
by turns, and nothing long.” whether this is true or not, it is
observed that such a variety of configurations confers versatility
of talent, and a love of change of occupation.
The parallel of declination, the conjunction, the sextile,
and,the trine,, are the happiest bonds of connexion between the Moon
and Mercury, .for they.produce, more o.r less, according to the position
and other configuratiohs of these two bodies., good abilities, ingenuity,
readiness of resource, a pretty wit, and energy. The square and oppos­
ition are better than no aspect between the Moon and Mercury, but they
sometimes cause obstinacy, cynicism, .and fickleness in. addition to
good abilities; chiefly, if Mars or Saturn be evilly configurated with
one. of them. ‘
The.■"dispositors or .planets ruling the signs contain­
ing Mercury and the Moon, may be disregarded, unless they happen to be
.in configuration.with one or the. other; and the, oriental position of
.one of them is. better than the occidental,,. .
.
.
.The. general infiuence .of,,
.the,,signs— -expepting the.equinoc-
tial. strangely omitted by Claudiusi.ptpiamy— .-»when ascending, or.,.con-
taining..Mercury, and the Moon,:i s :thus described;--- •
"The tropical signs (Cancer and Capricomus) generally dispose the
..mind, to enter muck into^ political.,
mattersj,. rendering it eager to engage
in'public, and .turbulent affairs * fend .of distinction,, and busy, in
132,,
i..-J.
.-
yY •
’
*
*-
1 1
. ;•
*
•
*
\ - *
theology; at the same time, ingenious, acute, inquisitive, inventive,
speculative, studious ©f ¿astrology and;4}vina$:fon.
"Bicorjporal signs (Gemini, Sagittarius,
. and •the first half of
Pisces) render the mind..variable, versatile, not .easy to be under­
stood, volatile, and unsteady; inclined to duplicity, amorous, wily,
fond of music, careless, full of expedients, and regretful.
"Fixed sigps.. .(Taurus, Leo,. Scorpio, .
and Aquarius) make the mind
just, uncompromising, constant, firm of purpose, prudent., patient, in­
dustrious, strict, chaste, mindful of injuries, steady in pursuing its
object, contentious, desirous of honour, avaricious, and pertinacious."
. . Ptolemy enjoins h.is; disciples; to- consider "the. .configurations
made játh the Sun and the angles by stars bearing any-relation, to the
point"in question,'h in.addition to "such'stars as hold any'
influence
over Mercury.
and the Moon." .
. )j.-.', • ,. t . , ,
The retrograde position of Mercury is said by some authors to
impair-the..natiyeVs:
:
at3i.lities« That this -aphorism .ig„.unsound can be
proved by a reference.rfO'-thejPrince Consort’s nativity, .wherein Mercury
vp.ll-be found to be.retro grade. The proximate quartil® aspect'of both
Mars and Uranus ..'with Mercury in the same 'nativity; supports-.¡the observa­
tion of Uilson,..;that he had .
’
’
never observed that the.nature.,of'ah
a s p e c t t o Mercury, "made, .-much difference,..whether a square' or-'-
.sextile." • i L
- "
. -
. • ■ ■
The abilities of a person born when Mercury is "combust" or
"under the sunbeams," are ..also said, by some authors, to be impaired;
and,, on the other hand, that the abilities of persons born when Mer­
cury is. in "casimi" (-within 17’-of the Sun's centre) are of the
highest order.
At the Right Hon. !
!
, E. Gladstone's birth (December 29, 1809),
Mercury was (at noon) in Capricorn 6°45', and the Sun was in Capricorn
7927'; hence Mercury was combust.. The great mental abilities of Mr.
Gladstone cannot be" denied, and.this fact induces very grave doubt as
to the truth of the axiom that the combustion of.Mercury- impairs the
abilities of the native. ......
'The Earl óf Beaconsfield, K.G., was-born December 21,. 1804;
Mercury (at noon.) in Capricorn 13902'^ ,
the Sun in Sagittarius.. 29°31' ,
.hence Mercury was undeJ? the sunbeams. Moreover, Mercury had the close
square aspect with both .Saturn and UTQE-us (nearly conjoined in Libra).
According to the teachings of some authors the noble-EaTl
should possess very mean .abilities indeed., owing to the position .and
aspects of Mercury. In justice to Ptolemy it must be stated that he
.draws no distinction..between, the-nature oft:
the aspects to Mercury, for
he uses only, the texms...'.'.conciliated" ..and "connected," and nowhere '
speaks of any difference in the.-infl-uence.of the square and Sextile,
etc., in relation to Mercury.
, ... At. Goethe's .birth Me-rcury-ms;..less .than ten .degrees' separated
from r
t)ie Sup.., and-had .the parallel d-en:linatiQn..o£ Saturn, ; ■
133
'-!At the birth of the late Sir Robert. Peel, Mercury was only
five degrees distant from the Sun, and in trine .aspect with' Jupiter.
•At the birth of Napoleon I, Mercury was within seventeen
degrees of the Sun, and in quartile with Uranus.
At the birth of Lord Nelson, Mercury was less than fourteen
degrees from the Sun.
Mercury when in conjunction, sextile or trine with Saturn,
is said to indicate "sound judgment, and a careful, constant wit."
Upon this aphorism, Wilson remarks: "I am certain the conjunction
with Saturn would be productive of quite.a contrary effect." this
opinion Wilson was decidedly mistaken, as reference t<5 Goethe's
nativity (wherein Mercury had par. dec. with Satupn) will prove. Any
aspect of Saturn with Mercury contributes to solidity of intellect,
and gives a love for antiquarian studies, patience, and laboriousness;
and (if mixed with Jupiter) probably a tendency to asceticism. Jupiter
in aspect with Mercury, gives candor, generosity, and good abilities.
Mars configurated with Mercury gives courago, self-confidence, mechan­
ical dexterity, ana sometimes rashness. Many eminent surgeons were
born when Mercury and the luminaries were configurated with Mars.
Unless Jupiter or Venus be configurated with Mercury, his familiarity
with Mars is apt to produce want of tenderness, as in the case of
vivisectionists.
The Sun in conjunction or parallel with Mercury, indicates
pride., conscientiousness, and ambition.
Venus in aspect with Mercury confers taste, elegance, love
of luxury, music, fascination of manners, and amiability; but if
there are cross aspects of the-infortunes to Venus and Mercury, the
motives of the person then born are liable to misconstruction; and,
unless Jupiter, should be configurated with them or with the Moon, or
predominant, th© talents are liable to be perverted.
Uranus in configuration with Mercury, inclines the native to
the study of astrology,, astronomy, and applied sciences, and renders
his mental abilities ingenious and original.
Neptune gives as much romance to the mind and nature, when
configurated with Mercury, as Uranus gives, but less ingenuity.
At the birth of the Duchess of Argyll, Mercury was
retrograde, in Pisces, in close conjunction with Saturn, in square
with Mars, and in-trine .with Jupiter. The Moon was in sextile with
Jupiter, in square with Mars, in opposition with Mercury, and in par.
dec.'with Saturn. Venus was in square with the ascending degree.
This amiable Princess, it is.well known, is highly gifted.
In the nativity of George III, June 4, 1738, at 7:46 a.m.,
Mercury was conjoined with Saturn; Mars (on the upper meridian) was
in square with, 'the.,ascendant and the Moon, and the Moon and Mercury
were neither connected with each other nor, with the ascendant. Under
evil primary directions the king became insane, and, but for Mercury
134
vhaving the sextile of Jupiter,''and;'the^ 'cbnjuhction -with Venus , he
would have become insane much earlier'ïh "
life. 'It is most -important
■
that Mercury and the Moon b,e connected either with each other or with
the ascendant, for otherwise there i
i
s alvfey^''a'risk;1
,
temporarily at
least, of insanity under "the combined''influence' of a irrain ’
o'f "evil
directions. Saturn inclines to. melancholia,.Mars to mania; and the
combination of their evil influences i'fî&û&e'S .
either 'epilepsy or
alternate fits of melancholy and fury. -
_•.
. % The .observations of/î^'&lëimy on'diseases of the mind and body,
• are so confused that, although’there is .much truth in many of them, it
is .very difficult to ,siftr ihie V7
heat;..i'rbm’
the chaff.' It is just possible,
however, that Ptolemy is not so much'.to...blame for the'confusion to be
^,fo,und in his.,writings,. as handed do'rai"to "us, for the'.'Greeks 'and Homans
.
.
.
..corrupted the':JEgypti.an a s t r o l o g y . 'Thé 'édition of‘the HLSBVIRS, dates
r;,
-
.in.1635,..was printed in double co.luimi.spone containing ErocluS* Greek
paraphrase,.'the other the Latin translation o f ‘
.Leo Allâtius, a Greek
;„
• by birth, celebrated for his works in both languages, who was .appoint-
,
. ed keeper of-.the Vatican Library, by Pope Alexander VII, with whom he
was in high favour. Melancthon after having been at the pains of cor­
recting and republishing,, in 1553 (with his own,'emendations), the
: edition of Camerarius,
. containing the reputed.'original text, still
deemed it advisable, .in .
.
.
t
h
e following year,to edit Proclus* paraphrase.
A few cases have fallen under the author's notice. They are
.....these:.---. . .
.
.
. f
i
.-
, ,
Case 1.---Adah P . , 'an idiot, born January 13, 1858, at 0:21 p.m.,
Northampton. ,Mercury on the upper meridian in opposition xvith Saturn,
in square with Lars, and.in par. dec. with Uranus (rising), and uncon­
nected with the Moon.. .
'
’
Saturn being in Cancer and opposed to the Sun,
. the child suffered from'chronic dyspepsia. .
2. --"B", born June.18, 1838, at 9:05 p.m., Northampton. This
woman was idiotic from birth. Mercury in conjunction with Mars, and
the Moon in opposition with Saturn.(culminating)..
3. --"J.N.S.", born September 24, 1843, .at 7:00 a.m. , London. The
Moon and Mercury nearly 'conjoined, 'ih the ascendant, in square'with
Saturn (in the northern angle). The Moon had the trine of Jupiter.
The Sun in square with Mars,"in opposition with Uranus, and in conjunc­
tion with Venus.' This gentleman, who was well educated, and possessed
. .gopd musical.:talent, fell a victim of melancholia, and died, of ab-
.sc.ess of’the-brain., in a
. lunatic ‘
asylum, in his 31st year.
4. --YR.J.'M, bom, Appil .9,’1848,"at 5’
:30. a.m., lat..,55° N. This
^gentleman who was", highly educated.,?'suffered. v)itM;'.religious mania, and
died suddenly, in a ,
lunat ic asylum, in. his ,28th!.year;-. .Mercury was in
conjunction and par. dec. with' Saturn and’"'Venus', in Pisces," and in
.square. with--Mars. ^.The Moon .had.
.
.separated, ¡but 7
°
.
- f m the conjunction
:
' Mars, a'nd.'was applying t
.
o
,
,
;
t
h
e
,
,conjunction with Jupiter. The Sun
..„had .just,t
.piseh. in close conjunction. .
v
r
i
’
th Uranus.. !
:
At. the".autopsy the
the. heart and- lungs, ^ere ...found t
.
p bq..perfectly healthy (Moon, conjunct
.
.
.
. Pipit er in Cancer); ..
.
a
p
d .
t
h
e
,
, doctors said that he. had,.died from exhaus­
tion through haying refused all"kinds of food.
135
"The diseases of the'body-act through the vital principle
upon the mind-'l1
'.'as Dr. Sharp wrote-*-; "and; on the other hand, the
disorders of the mind .-act through the; sarie-medium upon, the body.
These are the only instances we are cognisant of in which matter and
spirit meet and.act upon each other; in all other cases,;so far as we
know, matter acts only upon matter, and spirit u p o n . s p i r i t .
Hahnemann, the founder of homoeopathy, observed that cer­
tain symptoms manifested themselves "at the new or full Moon," and
some "when the moon is waning."- Jahr^ directs certain medicines to
•be given at -the decline of.the Moon, and others .at the-.next full Moon.
Dr. Sharp repudiated "the re-introduction of astrological considera­
tions among the reasons for prescribing remedies for disease," but
■expressed himself as "ready to adopt whatever,is demonstrated, or
concede whatever is rendered .highly probable." Dr. Sharp admitted
-
.that,
."for-many centuries'a belief,had been maintained that the action
.o.f drugs is under the government of the Sun, Moon, .'and .planets." Also
that, "All the details of this.misbelief are giyen with perfect good
faith, and with entire confidence, so lately as the middle of the
seventeenth century, in one of the most popular medical books of the
time— by 'popular'-, 1 here mean among medical men; this.is the
Fhaimacopaeia of John Schroder (1656)." If Dr, Sharp had carefully
■.compared the. directions for the .administration .of herbs given in
-Culpeper's HERBAL* with the. symptoms produced in- the healthy and cured
in the diseased by certain drugs, used by homoeopathic (and some
allopathic) physicians, he could not have failed, to be struck with
the manifest correlation of the'homoeopathic with.the astrological law.
Medicine was invented by the Egyptians in order to'overcome the appar­
ently fatal influence of the evil planets, when in certain relative
positions; and as Ptolemy relates, "they combined the medical art with
astronomical prognostication." Since the spread of homoeopathy, and
the improvement of the medical ax’
t generally, a knowledge of astrology
and of 1
the; relation of certain drugs to the Sun, Moon and planets, is
not so indispensable as formerly. ' Even at the present day,1however,
such knowledge.would be-of great use to.the doctors,-and of great
benefit to their patients; .and, in regard to the treatment of the
insane, a knowledge of astrology would be found to be of immense
service.
The LANCET^ once stated that:---
"The progressive explorations of physiological and pathological
science develop intimate bonds of union between mind,and body hitherto
undiscovered, and not even supposed to exist.^ Mind, and- body are
inseparable,° at least during life; they, are mutually independent for
energy; the .strength of the one is the power of the' other; the weakness
of one is the impotence of both."
No better evidence of this truth can be obtained than that
afforded by. a study of the^genethliacal branch of astrology-.
In the pSYCHQLOG-XE MORBIDE of Dr. J.. Moreau, (do Tours),
Medecin do 1 'Hosp.ice ae Bic.otre, the.author thus speaks of two twin
brothers, who had been confined, o
n
'
, account of monomania,. at' Bieetre: —
136
' i'-"Physically the -
-
.
t
w
o young men .are so nearly alike that the one is
easily mistaken for the other. Morally their resemblance is no less
complete, and is most, remarkable in its details. Thus., their domin­
ant ideas are absolutely the same. They both considor themselves
subject to imaginary persecutors, the sane enemies have sworn their
destruction, and employ the same-means to ..effect it. Both have
hallucinations of hearing. They are both of then melancholy and
morose; they: never .address a word to;anybody.,; apd .mil hardly answer
the. questions that others address to then, , They always keep apart
■and .neven.communicate with.one another.- An extremely..curious fact,
which has been, frequently noted by the superintendents of their
section of the hospital., and b-y myself,, is this:— From-time to time,
at very .regular intervals of two, three, and many motnths, without
appreciable .cause* and'by-purely spontaneous effect; of their illness,
a very marked change takes place in the condition of the two brothers.
Both of-them,- at the same time,
..
and .often on the same day, rouse
themselves from their habitual stupor and prostration; they make the
same complaints, and they -come of their own accord to the physician
with an urgent request to be .liberated. I have seen this strange
thing occur, even when they were some miles apart; the one being at
Bicertc, and the other living at Saint-Arne
There is another curious: French- case .of insanity in twins,
described by Dr. Baume, in tho"ANKALES LLEDICO-PSYCHOLOGIQUiB." 6
Trousseau gives a1remarkable case, in his •important- xvork
CLIUIQUE 1IEDIGALES, in the chapter on Asthma, of twin brothers "so
extraordinarily alike," and who had "a yet more remarkable -patholog­
ical resemblance." Ke says:-
- .
"Those twins were also asthmatic,, and.to a frightful degree.
Though born in Marseilles, they were never able to stay in. that town,
where their business affairs required them to. go, without having an
attack. Still more strange, it-was sufficient for thorn t
o
. get away
only as far as Toulon in order to be cured of the attack caught at
Marseilles. They travelled continually and- in-all-countries, and
they remarked that certain .localities were: extremely hurtful to them,
and that in others they wore free from all asthmatic symptoms."
Who will say- -that this, is not: strongly corroborative of the
truth of astrology?
The similarity of twins is an incontrovertible proof of the
influence of.the ambient. If Mercury be strong in. both nativities
the countenance of twins born nearly together'will-,
be illuminated by
wisdom, agd vice versa. It is a mistake to think that either religion
or education can over change the .original impress of nature. .The
leonine man will over be leonine in the expression of his countenance,
and in many'of the-traits- of'his character; the Saturnine man will
never become -jovial looking; tho Mercurial!st will always be. mercurial.
Lord Verulam once observed that "a fine person is a perpetual letter
of recommendation,." .The Almight» has, however, in some notable in­
stances .conferred-the .highest intellect upon men-whose bodies and
countenances could lay no claim to symmetry-
- as was -the case with
Swift, Pope, Voltaire, Goldsmith, Johnson, and Aesop. Goethe tells
137
us in his Autobiography that Lavater was to a certain extent dis­
appointed with his personal appearance at their first interview.
The remarkable horoscopes of twins born on June 9, 1890,
at an interval of ono hour and a half, one dying in infancy and
the other surviving that period, were given in STAR IDRE, March
1897, pp. 32,33.
In FUTURE, August and September 1895, pp. 121, 130, there
are some remarks on twins.
Eaerson in his "Essay on Beauty" wrote that:-
-
"Astrology interested us, for it tied man to the system. Instead
of an isolated beggar, the farthest star felt him and ho folt the star.
However rash and however falsified by pretenders to it, the hint was
true and divine, the soul’s avowal of its large relations, and that
climate, century, remote natures as well as near are part of its
biography. . . . a right and pei'fect man would be felt to the centre
of the Copernican system."
Some persons born with either of the signs Aries, Taurus,
Leo, Scorpio,’
'
’ the latter half of Sagittary, and Capricorn, ascending
(except when Mercury is in the ascendant and configurated with the
Moon and the fortunes) have something nearly akin to the animal ex­
pression and character. V/hon Mercury is powerful in a nativity, the
cultivation of the mind and the subordination of the passions to reason
will cause a gradual transformation from the human to the divine ex­
pression. The divine physiognomical expression pourtrayed by the
Greeks as appertaining to their heroes and divinities, marks "how high
progressive life may go," as Pope says.
FOOTNOTES.
1. ESSAYS ON MEDICINE, BEING AN INVESTIGATION OF HOMOEOPATHY
and other medical systems. Leath and Ross. Tenth Edition, p. 137.
2. CUNICAL GUIDE, article, "Norm Affections."
3. July 22, 1876.
4. Except by Astrologers.
5. See ‘
THE HUMAN BODY AND ITS CONNECTION UTTH MAN, by Dr. Garth
Uilkinson; also by the same author, HUMAN SCIENCE AND DIVINE RELATIONS.
6. 4 Sci?ie, Vol I, 1863, p. 312.
7. Scorpio often gives features greatljr resembling those of
the eagle.
CHAPTER XXI ti
■
THE FORTUNE .OF- W.EALJH ,AND-‘RANK
13.9
"Errors, like straws., upon the-- surface flow;
Ho who would search for pearls must dive below."
-.•Napoleon. j
. apd. Louis- Nappleon -lII., by;their -wonderful car­
eers, exemplified the pre-signification of the major planets rising
or culminating .
a
t
. birth. They:."achieved great.ne.ss,1
" by the power
of their stars and the force of their'intellect.,, and they both' fell
from their exalted positions, were made prisoners/ and died in exilel
A fitting commentary is afforded by the eventful career of these
monarchs, on the meridional.-position..-of the planet Saturn: for at
their births, and. at the birth'of Louis Phillippe, also, was-the
.greater infortune culpiinatingl The;.nativity-of Napoleon the Great
was computed byTJorsdale, who atated; that.:— >
*
- .
"The Emperor hiraself gave the time of his birth to an astronomer
.in. Corsica, as having jak-en,•place, at a?quarter; before ten o'clock in
the; forenoon o.f.August -15,:1769, at Ajaccio." •, .
. .
. . The time of-.b.irth... of. Lo,ui.s.f.Napoleon, was..-given."in. the:
MOMTEUR. of April 21, 1808, as follows:---. n
"Paris, le 20. Avril, 1808,— Aujourd'hui, mercredi 20 Avril, á
une heure du-matin,. S .
1
1«.la. reine de Hollande e.s.:h--heuraus.amen.t'.
accouchée d'un Prince..." .
;• . -.For-
Lou.is Phillippe's time-of birth-.the .author cannot vouch,
but it was given as 9C40 a.m-.,
- October. 6, 1773.; .
. : . :
The great Solar Eclipse of October 9, 1847, fell close to the
-place ,
of the Sun ;in- the -.nativity' of.Louis. Phillippe (in opposition to
Uranus)., and foreshadowed his downfall-.
Zadkiel ;
I foretold, the fate, of Louis Napoleon, in his AIMANAC
for 1853, in the following words:-
-
"But let him not dreara.of lasting-honours,.power, or prosperity.
He shall found no dynasty, he shall wear no durable crown; but, in the
midst of deeds of blood and slaughter,.
with/affrighted Europe trembl­
ing, beneath the xveight of-.his daring; martial hosts,-he descends
beneath the heavy hand of fat.e,-and falls to rise no nore.;
" .
'
- • King Francis I .of France,, born. September 12, 1494, at 10:37
p.m., in lat. 48° N., whose.horoscope was given-by Placidus, had
Saturn, in -
the -tenth .house, in- Pisces l.Q°22' and- in '.parallel .
o
f
- declina-
tion m t h the. lloon,. and; Neptune. on the,, lower meridian, fought against
the Emperor. Charles V of Germany, whose -horoscope- .was .also .given by
Placidus, .and suffered a ..great-..overthrow*.. and- .was .hinseT-f .wounded and
taken .prisoner..by the ,^ct.orious-,G.ermana;.--- The- German Snperor'-s- nativ­
ity was the more fortunate one.
140
: ; .
.
.
a ^ s ì s s s
Ptolemy direct.^us to jujige of.-the fprtune .of. wealth by the"Part
of Fortune" alone; "the position of 'v/hiciij" 1hdf
!
days, "is, in all
cases, .always..as. far removed from the ascendant as the Sun is dis­
tant' from the Moon.!',-
,ihis.may have'bpen ah ihtétpolation, however.-
Wilson avers that the pars fortunae "is really nothing
but a phantom hatched in the figurative brain of Ptolemy, which has
no influence whatever, .except influence can ..arise out of nothing."
The.author is- in 'peirr|cf,,
àccq^.VìiJi^Wiìsón-'-itì^ this'view.
Plkcidus once confessed that he'had,•with;régafdu%o-the
Part of Fortune., laboured, a'long time,.and had never--been- able'- to
find .any, truth in it. ’ '
The Part of Fortune is that point of the horoscope whereon
.the rays of the Sun and.
Mopn convergè, and wherè'the Moon would be
if the Sun were exactly rising.. Effects (if any) connected with the
Part of Fortune, are really traceable to the Sun-and Moon. It must,
therefore, be rejected from a rational system of genethlialogy.
If Venus, and Jupiter be. strong, and' in good configuration
with either the Sun' or Moon in a'nativity, the person then' born will
become-wealthy,..either through inheritance or by means of his own
industry. The angular position is the strongest that the luminaries
and planets can have. The space extending from the cusp of the lid
house to:that of the. IXt.h,, via the ascendant, is the next best, and
most fortunate for 'the, luminaries and. benefics to b'e'placed at birth.
The most powerful angle is the south, the' ne'xt is the east, then the
west; and the fourth is held to be weakest of four angles.-'
Saturn and I-Iars angular also give advancement, but it is
almost invariably attended with risk's and dangers, and with reverses
towards the. end of life,..
The Sun'and Moon afflicted and cadent in the VIth or H i d
houses, and the planets weakly posited, threaten poverty, difficulties,
and misery.difficult to overcome even by those who are gifted with
indomitable resolution, and are'blessed with health and strength.
Planets retrograde at birth are said to cause poverty
sickness, but this is ye.ry. doubtful..^'/
It .is important that'the Sun and. Moon be "in good aspect with
each, other-— sextile or trine-— and ,if one of them be'on the upper
meridian, so much the better for the native's fortune.' For persons
who continue to reside in or near the place of their birth, it is
important that the Sun and Moon, Jupiterand Venus 'be above the earth,
in'order'to afford "a .prospect of lasting prosperity., Saturn •with the
Moon,"'especially when, angular, is one of the worst positions; and,
unless, the Moon be .configurated with Jupitef* or that benefic be
ascending, ruin or disgrace may ensue. Fixed stars of a fortunate
nature (Arista, North'Scale, Rigel, etc. )'ascending, C.ulminatihg or
with one of the luminaries, promise riches or good fortune.
Saturn in benefic aspect with the Sun, Moon, and Jupiter
141
gives riches, by inheritance, gain by mines. (i£:-Saturn; b;e in the
fourth house), Hands,' legacies, agriculture.,-' o.rî'navi.gat.-ipn.. ..k
Jupiter gives wealth by means of. the church, the law>. of­
fices of state, or University, appointments.: ■ > - •
.
. Mars, gives riches by military-preferment,;-surgery, and all
mechanical trades in, which iron and sharp tools are ¡used..
Venus gives wealth .through.the friendship or kind offices
of ladies of. position and influence and.success in art, music,.the
drama, etc.
■ , -
, Mercury confers r.iches by means .of science, art,-, literature,
eloquence, travelling, etc. ,.
..
.
. From the position of the planets-most strongly fortified in
■the horoscopethe .direction, or part of the world in' which-fortune
is most likely of attainment, may sometimes be known.
Too-much stress has been laid, on the position of Jupiter in
the lid house of a nativity. Hopes have thereby been raised only to
be disappointed, of “wealth beyond the dreams of avarice.” •If the
Sun and Moon be evilly configurated with Saturn, and have no assist­
ance from Jupiter, the.accidental position of Jupiter in the lid house
can be of little avail, and the native;.is more likely to moot with
penury than wealth. The position of Jupiter in the IId house when
happily configurated with the Sun, and receiving the bodily applica­
tion of the Moon, especially in Cancer, Sagittarius, or Pisces, the
luminaries being free from affliction, will bring a good estate, or
good fortune in trade. The career of an individual may be advantag­
eously altered, in some cases, by emigration, as before -
stated. For
example :---
MA gentleman, whose birth took place at midnight of September 29,
1816, in Scotland, met with but little prosperity in the United King­
dom. He removed to Australia, and there-prospered to: such an extent
that he became one of the wealthiest and. most highly respected citi­
zens of Melbourne At his birth, the planets-Mercury, Venus, and
Jupiter, were located in the IVth house (the northern angle). By
crossing the equator, and pitching his tent in a,southern latitude
(58°). he.inverted his horoscope, and thereby brought the benefics
nearly to the upper meridian of his nativity.”
Here is.,-another instance, and of a different kind, of benefit
by emigration:---
”A gentleman, whose birth took place when the Moon was culminating
in the sign Capricorn, in sextile, to Jupiter (setting), and in trine
to the Sun. He went to India (ruled by Capricorn), rose to distinction,
qnd obtained a-lucrative post under Government .there. "
■
RANK.---The Sun. and -Moon when, angular, especially if, in
Aries., Cancer, Uapricornus, or Libra and well aspected by :the benefics,
or the benefics angular and well aspected by the luminaries, confer
142
power, distinction,., apd greatness, on the native.. On the other hand,
the luminaries .
.
far beioW t
l
i
i
e
^|i'ori2bji, by’
-the m&iefi'CS, and
no benefic angular, 'poverty', ¿bscurTty'^' c
i
h
'
d adversityfrbm which-the
...native will find.it well-nigh impossible tp emerge, at.least in the
hemisphere in" which'he was born,are'’
likely’to-'be" endured.
Rank and authority proceeding frgm Saturn, may probably be
derived from’the;^■asession;..;pr.''iaiid',”
' * mines,
' etc..
. . Rank. and. authority proceeding., from Jupiter and Yenus are
pleasurable.,.andyaccompanied M t h honohl ¿nd’
;
'
’
riches.'
Rank and authority proceeding from Mars, are derived from
the command of•
.
armies, the gaining of victories by sea.or land, dis­
tinction in surgery, engineering,' e
t
c
'
'
.
’ .
.
. ' ' 7 ,S '1* * ''l'1
'
.,
.
.
v .
.
. ,Rank and. authority proceeding from Mercury arise from dis­
tinction in' literatureJyarts;7 sciences,; and' in the 'di'rection or man-
“agement of great, companies.
Planets, when rising, before the Sun, and setting after the
.
,
."Moon, are'held to possess more efficacy. In the promotion of rank
and wealth..
The configurations'and positions of the Sun, Moon, Jupiter
and Venus at the births'of Hep' Majesty Queen Victoria;,'the Prince
Consort, and King Edward; VIT,.. are eminently illustrative of the; power
of the heavenly bodies 'in nativities'. J
The nativities of the late German Emperor, grandfather, of
the Kaiser, and of King Georgd ill of Great Britain show the power
of Mars when culminating, at birth'.
The unfortunate nativities of the members of the Bourbon
family^ (with one exception), illustrate the power of the malefic
.planets, when evilly configurated with.the luminaries and powerfully
■ situated, to bring misfortune even upon royal families. The' exception
is the nativity "of Louis XVIII,' in which'Jupiter was rising, and,
; therefore, after all his Vicissitudes of fortune, he died upon the
throne,"' ' ' ‘ ' ‘i .7 ■"■ 1 .
■ The mutual sexiile or trine, aspect of the Sun and Moon, when
they are free from affliction, will give advancement, honour, dignity,
and comparative wealth.' On the other hand, tho mutual quartile or
opposition aspoat of the Sun and Moon4generally causes great difficul­
ties and troubles to bar the way <pf advancement. Many great men have
been born near full' Moon, but then tho fortunes have assisted the Moon,
or have been angular at their births.
7 y ‘ ■ .: 7; ■ pootnotes 7 ;7':'" .
1 .
' 'wHdd' 1 faith;in astrology, brother '(Which by the bye my
father had),'I~ would'haW'sworh some rotrogradV'7 ianet was' hanging
over this..unfortunate house of mips, and turning every individual
thing.ih"!
it out''of;‘
itS' i>iace:
^.7~l<au:rbnce St'opnq .
’
(Tristram Shandy).
143
"But there is a fatality attends the actions of some men],
order them as they will, they pass through a certain medium, which so
twists and refracts them from their true direction-
- that with all
the titles to praise which a rectitude of heart can give, the doers
of them are nevertheless forced to live and dio without it.**-—
Sterne.
"I had never more need that the heavenly bodios should
befriend me, for my earthly path is darkened and confused."—
Leicester.
"And shako the yoke of inauspicious stars,
From this world-wearied flesh."---
Shakespeare.
2. The times of birth, and the positions of the luminaries and
planets thereat, were given in a letter to the SPECTATOR, and printed
in the edition of that journal for February 22, 1862; they were also
given in the authors’ pamphelt, A DEF2NSE OF ASTROLOGY, pages 24 to 26.
•
*
>
T:
;
it
W
145
CHAPTER XXIV
. - ON THE VOCATION
"They marked the influence, and observed the power
...... . Of every sign, and .every fatal hour;
Tihat tempers they’
.bQs.t’
owed, what fortunes gave',
.
.-
r .
. . .And-who was b o m a icing, who doom’d a slave."---
./. ■
' / ; .
.
. ■ m a n i l i u s
.
' ■
. 1 ' To'thp5# persons whose lot it is to labour ‘
for their daily
bread,' no question can be more important than that relating to the
nature of the vocation best suited' to their talents, and most favour-
.
.
.able to their, success. Many eminent men have.been compelled to
change their..profession or business in consequence' of the .mistakes
of .their parents',, or guardians, in having apprenticed them te trades
or professions repugnant to their natures. Much light can sometimes
be thrown on the natural bent of an individual, on the nature of the
employment most, fortunate for him, and,, also, on the part of the
...world most, favourable to his success^ "by a careful study of his
nativity. It is not, however, always'a point easily determined;
there are, in some nativities, so many positions and configurations
.
.presented for consideration, that the induction ’by which method
•alone can à safe..conclusion be gained), becomes very difficult,
f .. If'one and the same planet be in the mid-hcavon, and making
.'its oriental..appearance, nearest to the Sun, it alone should be taken
..as the representative pf the nature of the. profession or employment.
.But,,here, again, .
a
.
- pretty wide’field of inquiry.is opened up, for
this same .planet-.may bear rule over a variety of..trades and profes­
sions. For example, lot' us suppose Morqui^r alone is .
t
j
i
o signifi-
cator. We find that’he produces writers, superintendents of business,
accountants, teachers,, merchants, and bankers; and all who livo by
literature and furnishing instruction,.as well as. by stipend or
salary. If Mercury.,
bo badly afflicted, the profession followed may
bo that of an infomner, or contributor to low-class journals.
If’
,Saturn bo in.
any way configurated with Mercury, persons
thon. born;will most -probably .become managers oi the affairs of others,
or employed in. connection with places .of worship.
If Jupiter and Venus, be configurated with Mercury, persons
then born will prosper as.painters, artists, musicians, or jewellers.
If Jupiter alpno be. configurated with Mercury, the legal or clerical
profession will be.well .adapted to the genius of the porson then born,
or tho woollen pr,.grocery .trade. .If Venus, be in conjunction with
Mercury, a
.
'ya'sto for mus.ic.,’the drama, c
.
t
c
.
.
.
,
. may lead, the native to
devote'his .talohts to the pursuit of one of them as a profession.; or
ho may boepno an astronomer, or astrologer, or both. " .
.IfSaturn, join Mercury;-and .Venus, success is promised in tho
manufacture or' sale' of ornaments, and. garments .for women., .
. ....
. .
. . ' If Jupiter be joined.. wilh.‘
,Morcury and- Venus,-th.a,p,pyspn then
born is well adapted for the office of a magistrate, judgo, or tutor.
Should Mercury and Mars be joined together, the person
then born will, probably., do well--as•
•
a sculptor, surgeon, engineer,
ironmaster or ironworker, shipbuilder, or in any trade in which
sharp-'-tools are' used.■-'Tf-Saturn■
afflict these planots, and at the
same time afflict 'thc Sun or Moon, thero is a daiiger of becoming
dishonest-. ;If -Jupiter1be’ joined-with Mercury and Mars, the person
then’
‘
borri will-distinguish himself in honourable warfare, or in busi­
ness; and he will be greatly disposed to engage in foreign trade.
Venus and Mars being joint arbiters of the employment,
favour success in dealing in perfumery, dyes, drugs, etc.; and, also,
in art and the theatrical profession. .
.
Saturn joined with Venus' and Mars' will incline, people to be
attendants on religious ceremonies, 'undertakers, gravo-difgersetc.
If Jupiter join'Mars and Venus', i
‘
n signification, persons'then born
-may bocome holders of sacred offices. ..
■ - Venus alone ruling the employment signifies dealers in
perfumery, -flowersy fruit, wines, colours, dyes, spices, ,and apparel
:(silk, -especially, if Venus bo In Libra).
'"• The signs of the zodiac appear to. have somo general influence
over the nature of the employment. The sighs Gemini, Libra, and
Aquarius, are hold to indicate scientific pursuits, Arios, Taurus, Loo,
•and Capricorn, givo employment among metals, in business, trado,
'housebuilding; and as-smiths or'mechanics, Tho tropical and equinoctial
e., the cardinal signs) givo employment in matters of exchango,
•mensuration, agriculture, or religion. Tho signs Taurus, Cancer, Virgo,
Scorpio-,- Capricornis ,-and’
’Pisces,
' incline to' employment on tho watefi,
horticultuho-,-shipbuilciin'g, and agricuithro. '
The Moon regulating the ’
ompiomont, and, separating from the
Sun, forming an aspect with Marcury, inclines to tho pursuit of.
travelling, or astronomy, or astrology, or toaching.
Tho magnitude and importance of the employment m i l be deter­
mined by.tho power, elevation, and aspects of the ruling planet or
planets.. If they be angular, or oriental of the Sun, they- usually
givo eminence and authority; but-if under the horizon, or occidental,
they often render tho employment of a subordinate character, If tho
.bonofics be rulers' of tho employment, or in'aspect with the planot
.ruling, and olovated, •
.they give important, lucrative, honourable,
agrooablo, and conspicuous positions. If, on the other hand, the
malefics bo elevated above and in ovil configuration with tho ruling
plaget, tho employment and- position of the porson thon born may prove
to bo uncertain,’ poverty-stricken, insecure, and, probably, .unhealthy
also. In such oaso Saturn causes deiay and difficulty;,and, ir
, some
casos, through several pursuits being blended togothor. Mars produces
mischief by rash and reckless conduct. Both Saturn, and Mars when
evilly configuratod-with-tho ruler of•thoemploymont indicate sovoral
enemies conspiring against’the owner of the horoscope, and sooking to
oust him from his post; and (unless the.Moon be .configurated with
Mercury) these- idanot's may prevent proficiency as’well as.,good, reward.
147
. In regard to-the. learned professions, we may be assured that
in -order to commahd ^sliccoss in the law, Jupiter and Mercury must be
■
’
ptrong, -.and. either tiic Sun or'Moon in conjunction, sextilo, trine, or
.parallel,;with Jupiter. To insure success in medicine, Mars must be
strong ip thenativity, and harmoniously configuratod with oithor the
Sun or Moon or Mercury.. To succeed in the church, Jupiter, or one
of the luijiinarics should be found in the ninth or tenth houso of the
nativity, and in harmonious•configuration with Saturn.
. In the remaining professions-' and trades, succóss may bo
predicated in like manner. The parts-df the world most favourable
to the native's careor, may bo judged according totho instructions
given in. the preceding chapter. .
As a goncral rulo the planet Mercury whan in either tho first,
eleventh, tenth, or-ninth house, bears chief sway over professions and
trades. ..But,,-should another planet bo makirg its oriontal appoaranco
noarost to tho Sun, or be locatod in the' tenth' house, it must be taken
to bo the roprosontativo of tho employment, If ono planot be making
its oriontal :
appearanco. nearest tho Sun, and another planot bo. pn the
uppor meridian, that,ono must be taken which receives tho application
of tho Moon. If both planets be configurated with the Moon, or" if
neither haVc any. configuration with her, then that ono which has tho
most -fortunate aspects should be taken to represent tho employment.
.If two. or ,more planets bo conjoined with Mercury, and havo configura­
tion with the Moon, the. person then born will (especially if the Moon
bo angular) change,hi s ■
employment and residence, frequently,.'..
• I n Gootho's nativity both Mercury and Venus are near the Sun
and "the mid-hoaven. Morcury. is seen placed in the ninth houso,
oriental of the Sun, having tho parallol of declination of Saturn, the
trino of Mars, and the smi-sextilo of Venus; and separating from tho
opposition of Uranus. Venus is found in -the tenth house, occidental
Of tho Sun, having the parallol declination of the Moon, the opposition
and par. doc. of Jupiter, and applying to tho quartile with Mars.
Venus' position is, .therefore, the strongest, and her configuration
with Mercury inclined Goethe to follow the pursuit of literature, and
ho developed that dramatic and poetic genius for which he is so justly
and dpservodly famed. The angular positions of the Sun,'Venus, tho
Moon, and Jupiter, together, constitute this nativity á fortunate one,
and clearly point to his high talents and brilliant career. The con­
nection formed by Saturn and Uranus xvith Morcury, gavo a mystical trait
to his mind.
In Uranis, May 1880, will be found a papor by a physician on
"Succossful Commanders,” in which it was shown ih the groat majority
of instances (eighteen) there was a trine aspect of the Moon with Mars
on tho birthday. In a few casos tho trine had been completad on tho
day before the birth, and in others the day aftor. In the absence of
information as to tho natal hour it would be unfair to regard these
cases as tolling against the theory of martial influence on the careers
of generals. Next to tho trine camo the mutual sextilo of Mars and the
Moon, In Soult's caso thore was an opposition of these two celestial
bodies, but tho Sun was in Aries and in proximate soxtile with Mars at
that great general's birth. In the case of Lord Napier of Magdala,
148
tho Moon was in opposition with. Mars in the evening, before his birth-
•
' •
•
• "day, but the Sun in Sagittary was in.soxtilo with Mars -in Libra, and,
"probably, the birth took place about sunrise of December 6 , 1810.
Tho quartilo of the Moon with Mars was only found' on -the birthday of
Count Moltko.. ,Frederic- the Groat had. tho Sun, Mercury'and Mars in
tho tenth houso,.for he was b o m at noon.
Tho Bnperor Frederic Uilliam of Gormany had the Sun'in the
martial sign'Aries at his birth (two o'clock p.m. ) and Mars in tho
tenth house. Moltke had the Sun in tho martial sign Scorpio, and
Prince Bismarck had the Sun in /erics, and Mercury in semi-quartilo
with Mars. .No wonder that this triumvirate defeated Louis Napoleon
in 1870, and consolidated tho various kingdoms of Genaany into a
powerful, united Snpiro.
•*- ' ' ' '"JR)rd’Roberts had-the .Suit in close trine with Mars at his
:
i
l
' • birth.,'ana Mars nearly in parallel -with Jupiter. Mercury, Venus and
■jupitor were all in their respective chief dignities.•
*
-
' 'On the birthday ,of Lord Kitchener tho Moon was just sopar-
J-' ating from the trine with Mars in Leo; and on his fiftioth birthday
"
• (1900) tho Mo o n .
was in. .conjunction with-Mars.
• The zodiacal sign, containing .the.ruler of the vocation,
•^'-■•especially if it be .on the. meridian- of the¿nativity, and if tho ruler
u '
•
•
b
e dignified in i
t
^
-
r
-
'
.
a
.
s the Sun is in Leo,, the Moon in Cancer, Mercury
'■ in Gemini' and Viigo, Venus in Taurus and Libra, Mars in Arios and
Scorpio, Jupiter in Sagittarius and Pisces, and Saturn in Capricornus
and Aquarius-
- may be of use in indicating the- country or city in
which eminence and succoss may be achieved.in the vocation.
Tho gentleman, whose nativity was mentioned on pago 141,
who was born at 8;20 p.m. of September 6 , 1840, in lat. 52°58* N . ,
and long. '
6° I'J.,
' Capricornus 19°24' ort the upper inoridian, and the
'
■
'
■;' Moon in 16°14' of that sign, in trine with the Sun in Virgo 14°16’,
•and in soxtilo with Jupitor in Scorpio 14°15*, went out to India
(ruled by Capricornus) in October 1862, and succeeded well in that
country. In this instance although the Moon is not dignified in
■Capricorn, she is well supported by the benefic aspects of both tho
■
■Sun and Jupiter. .
FOO'INOTJjS '
1. Vide STAR LORE, March 1900.
149
CHAPTER XXV
' ' :•MARRIAGE- .- • ’ .
..*v • •
, -happy.,they,= the happiest;, of their kind,
o gentler stars-unite.!*-— Thomson-.
.
.
A
’
-good-.-knoviledge;Of .astrology, .andvdue regard being paid to
its’prémonitions, .might■■prevent many, unhappy .marriages, and,thus help
to reduce the ever-increasing- number .of appeals to the Court for
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes. .Claudius Ptolemy laid down .some very
-clear-and concise rules on this subject. He advised persons about to
marry to have a care that the Sun and Moon in their respective nativ­
ities are in concord. It would be well if persons contemplating matri­
mony "would seé to'.it that the.iplaces of, the Sun and Moon in the one
nativity are'in sextile.or tine aspect to the places.of-these lumin­
aries-in the other. Ptolemy advised that "mutual reception" should
also be sought, -but this ,is of no material-consequence. .Astrologers
generally consider that it is-of the happiest augury.when the Moon in
the bridegroom' s iiativity happens to be in sextile.
or. tine to the Sun
in the bride'S'nativity. On the other hand, the square.or -
opposition
aspect between.the places.of the'luminaries in the two nativities, is
too often associated with matrimonial strife; apd the worst effects
will follow, if at the same time the malefic planets afflict the
luminaries in. both.nativities. Ptolemy says that if Venus be with the
malefics, the^ separation \vill be on account of adultery, etc, .Benefic
planets'partaking in. the concord established between the-.places of the
luminaries in both nativities, render the married.pair happy-and for­
tunate,-'- and if Mercury also partake in the happy configurations,
their mutual affection will become notorious. If Venus in the one
nativity be on the-place of.Mars in-'the-other, the cohabitation; -
(whether legal or illegal) will-'be lasting, and-marked by entire. :love
and concord.
BOR WOMEN,, the Sun is to be .chiefly regarded in estimating
their' chances of mari'iage and happiness. If the Sun be oriental
(i.e., between the .ascendant., and mud-heaven, or between the-.descend­
ant and lower meridian) a woman will marry in her.youth; or, when
elderly, with a young man. If the Sun be between the descendant and
the lower meridian.-she will marry.late in life; or, when young, to an
old man. If the Sun be in a. double-bodied, sign-, or configurated with
several oriental planets (in one sign) she will marry more than once.
If Saturn be configurated with the Sun,, the husband will be "stedfast,
advantageous, -and industrious," says Ptolemy. My experience has* shown
that, when Saturn is in square or opposition with the Sun, the husband
may prove unsteady and improvident..; Jupiter configurated with the Sun
gives a good,benevolent, and honourable husband. Mars, says Ptolemy,
gives a^severe husband, "void of .affection and. intractable." Venus
gives an amiable husband of handsome appearance, but he.may be too fond
of pleasure. Mercury gives one who is provident and expert-.-in his pro­
fession or business... .
.
.
.
.
.
.
. ^
The configurations formed by-;Venus must not.be disregarded,
for, .says Ptolemy, "I.f Venus bej'found connected with Saturn,-..she .-will
indicate dull and timid husbands; if with Jupiter, the husbands will
15b
be good, just, and modest; if with Mars, hasty, and unfaithful; and if
with Mercury, they will be very'fond of children.”
FOR the Moôn must be chiefly'considered, in regard to
marriagë. The Moon in her first or third quarter, at birth, the native
will either marry when youn (under thirty); or, after having passed his
. prime, a young woman. "If the Moon be found under the Sun's beams and
configurated with Saturn,''she then entirely denies marriage," says
Ptolemy. If the Moon be in a sign of single form, or configurated with
only one planet, the native will raarry but once; on the other hand, if
. she be in a bicorporal sigh (Gemini, first half of Sagittarius, or
Pisces), or in aspect with several planets (in one and thè same sign),
the man will marry several times. '
. .If the Moon'make application to the benefics, the wives will
be go,od and true; but',,if she malte application to evil planets, the wives
may provè either unreliable or of a quarrelsome disposition. For
example: T f Saturn receive the Moon’s application the wife will prove
troublesome and morose, yet constant' and industrious; if- Jupiter receive
. ’it, the wife vn11 be'decorous, good, and economical;' if Mars ,■
autocratic
and ..refractory; if Vénus., cheerful, hahdâomé, and agreeable; if Mercury,
sensible, prudent, and clever; if UranuS Or Neptune, independent, and
difficult to understand.''
Should Venus be connected with Jupiter, Saturn or Mercury,
she'will render,'wives provident, and ^attached to their husbands and
, children; 'but, if she be'found connected with1Mars, they xvill be
irascible,.indiscreet, if not unsteady and inconstant.
' ïïômen, in whose nativities Venus is configurated with Jupiter
or Mercury, are virtuous rind well-conducted; but when Venus is with
Mars only, they'are liable to be led away, unless Mercury or the Moon
is connected with Jupiter.
' Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune^'-when in the seventh house of a
nativity, bring either unhappiness in married life, or separation from
Or early death of' thè' pàrtner. The unhappiness may arise from poverty,
arid not from incompatibility of temper. The Sun afflicted'.by Saturn
or Uranus i
.
n the nativity of a woman, and the Moon afflicted by either
of these planets in the nativity of a man, usually brings some trouble
and disappointment in lbve Or matrimony.
DESCRIPTION OF TEIF TUFF OR HUSBAND.---If a planet happens to
be located'near the'cusp of the seventh house, it may be-taken (with
the sign i
r
i which it is posited) to describe the-partner in marriage,
approximately. If no planet happens to be so situated, then that which
receives'the'application of the Moon must be taken in a manrs'nativity;
and that which receives the application of the Sun in a woman's nativity.
In some cases 'the'planet to which the'Sun'applies indicates the nature
of the profession or irade followed by the husband. Fortunate planets
in the seventh house, denote a happy marriage; evil planets therein,
show either trouble or separation. Fortunate planets in the eighth
house show that the wife or husband,'as the case may be, will be rich;
unfortunate planets therein show loss or diminution'of the estate.
151
THE HiOBABLE PERIOD Of MARRIAGE.-
- This is to be judged by
the "directions.." The planet to which the Moon applies is often the
promittor. Venus does not always produce marriage, but she generally
indicates a love engagement when the Sun, Moon, M.C., or Asc. is direct­
ed to her. Jupiter often brings marriage in the case of women, and so
do the Sun and Mars by direction. In the nativity of H.R.H. the
Duchess of Argyll, the Sun directed by converse motion to the place of
Yenus (Sun conj. Venus, m . , con. 22°45' ~ Dec., 1870), and to the
parallel of Yenus in the zodiac (Sun par. Yenus zod. 23°1' ■ March,
1871), operated to produce marriage, and the latter arc measured
exactly to the period of the happy.event.
"Love at first sight" is produced by the harmonious configura­
tions of the luminaries and the concurrence of the benefics, or of
Venus and Mars, in the two nativities. The beauty and fascination of
the eyes, to which love at first sight is so frequently due, are pro­
duced by the position of Venus in the ascendant or in configuration
with the ascending degree. Shakespeare has pourtrayed the beauty of
Juliet’s eyes, and the effect produced on her enraptured lover Romeo.
Samuel Lover in Handy Andy, says:-
-
"And as sages wise, of old,
Prom the stars could fate unfold,
Thy bright eyes my fortune told,
Lady, lady, mine."
Venus ascending, or culminating, or in juxtaposition with
either Sun or Moon, in the nativities of men, will render them great
favourites with the fair sex. Goethe was born when Yenus was elimin­
ating, in parallel declination with the Moon, and in semi-sextile aspect
with Mercury; hence he was a great favourite with the ladies, and so
addicted to love-making that he averred that the happiest moment of a
man's life was when an old love was terminating and a new love
commencing!
Jupiter materially assists to bring marriage to women, parti­
cularly when approaching the meridian or in the seventh house, or re­
ceiving the application of the Sun or Moon. In such cases (unless
Jupiter happens to be greatly afflicted, or the Sun afflicted by Saturn),
the marriage usually proves happy and fortunate. The position of the
Moon in the Xth house, and in trine aspect with Jupiter in the YEIth is
equally fortunate, For example:— A lady, born May 14, 1845, at 5:00
p.m., lat. 53§° N . , was married under the PRIMARY DIRECTION of M,C.
trine Jupiter zod. The Moon was in the Xth house of her nativity, in
Leo 25°09', and Jupiter was in the seventh house, and in Aries 25°56'—
a close trine aspect.
2. --A lady, born May 15, 1840, at 2:30 p.m. lat. 52g°N,, was
married under the direction of M.C. trine Jupiter m . , on October 18,
1862, to a noble lord whose social position was far superior to that
in which she was born. At her birth the Moon vías in conjunction with
Jupiter in the second house.
3. --Another lady who was born when Virgo 24°55’ occupied the
ascendant, Neptune being close to the cusp of the seventh, the house
■152
•
\
of ''marriage, in Pi^es:-^.0^ ' , .v/as.compelled .
to divorce her first
•hUsband ,;ahd married a.;seoond. time, but none -boo. happily..
.
.
i
. ..■4.-
- A lady, who was born under Leo 18°19.' ,,..had Neptune in the
•seventh house in Aquarius 24°14' near the Ihooiv. .-in-24°3V' of the same
■Sigh, and near .Venus in 2?°50'. also in the sign, was married to a
hand'some and kind-gentleman,., who, unfort unatelyj- succumbed..to fever less
than'.eight years .after the-wedding day. .
,
.
1 .
.
5. — -A lady who was born when Venus in. Libra 10°32* was close to
the upper meridian, andr;applying, to conjunction with Jupiter in 16°22'
of the same sign, in the tenth house, the latter benefic, being in
■
quantile, with the Loon in Capricornus 16°33,J .which .luminary was
•'applying to:'the trine aspect Tilth Mercury, .ruler <ST'the seventh house,
■married, at .twenty-six and a half years- of age a wealthy gentleman, under
the primary arn .of direction of Sun conjunction Venus 26°33', preceded
by Sun- sextile Jupiter 26°08'. She was widowed at 42 years of age under
.
the primary direction of Sun, parallel Saturn niundo ,41°56'. This lady
was-marri.ed-.a- few years later,to- a nobleman, under Loon opposition
Venus and Jupiter by primary„direction. In her nativity the. Sun was
in a sign of single form, in conjunction with Regulus, and applying to
Mars by sextile aspect,.
6. -A lady who was born under Leo 15°24' had Neptune close to the
cusp of the seventh house of her nativity in Aquarius 13°15', in prCx-
mate sextile with Saturn in Sagittarius 15°10', in the Vth house, and
in .'proximate, quantile with Jupiter in 11°12' of Scorpio, in the IVth
house'; the Moon in Pisces 14°40', separated from trine with Jupiter and
applied to conjunction, with JJranus; made an early and romantic marriage
under the primary direction:of Ascendant conjunction Venus.■ She was
left '
.
a widow under the direction of Midheaven quartile Uranus in the
zodiac, attended by Midlieayen opposition Venus; and married .
a second
time under Midheaven sextile Sun in the zodiac.
It must be borne in mind by tiie student that marrying is a
voluntary act, and not so unavoidable as are accidents and serious ill­
ness; and, therefore, the time of marriage: is-difficult-to forecast,
especially when several primary directions favouring courtship and
marriage fall near together, that is to say, within the space of four
or five years.
, . iUGiNC.T!S. .
.1. .While Napoleon the Great had Josephine;by his side, he
was .fortunate, but when he put her away, his good fortune left him.
2. Unless ?rell configurated with either Jupiter or Venus.
CHAPTER XXVI
CHILDREN-
1-53
”0 CMldi 0 new born denizen'
Of-life's great- city! on thy:liead
The glory of the m o m is shed,
Like a
' celestial b'eniSdnt •
' ' '
By what astrology'
of-fear or hope.
Dare I to cast thy horoscope,
■ •-“ LONGFEUDVi-,-
'
■
"
•
In estimating the probability of offspring, the Xth and XEth
houses of-the nativity are-to be-first' examined;-add if there be no
’ planets'-located '
therein,-then the Opposite houses Tthe Ivth and Vth)
are to-:be--considered-. • - • ■
■
■ • •
' - The Moon, Jupiter,'and Venus- are held to be'givers.--of child-
rén; thé-'Suñj Mars, Saturn,Tahd Uranus are said-to--deny'‘
children, or
■ allot'but-'one Or two-,- one being-liable to early death- Or to become a
--source¿of trouble and anxiety to the parents. •'Mercury •
either ‘gives or
'-'"-denies children, according to-the-planets with-, which--he may. happen to
•-be-'configurated. fifths planets promising offspring happen to be
‘ located in bicorporal (Gemini, first half of. Sagittarius- or Pisces)
or in Ganeer, •
Virgo, or Scorpio, they are ■
said .to.:-.give!twins, which
is incompatible'with the.very doubtful doctrine:that Gemini and Virgo
- are- "barfen" signs. • •
' :
If no planets be located in either of the houses before-
mentioned *‘those that may happen to' be in benefic aspect to the
degrees'on the cusps of those houses, must be considered, ■
If the planets giving- offspring be strongly situated the
children-born-will attain to good positions in the -world.
It is of the greatest-importance that parents.should under­
stand the bent of their children’s minds. This can Only- be known, in
many instances, from the children's nativities. Lord Beaconsfield
observed:-*—
-
■ ■
- "We'are apt-to believe that the character of a boy is easily read.
•-
’Tis a mystery -
the most profound. . Mark--vihat blunders-parents- contin­
ually make as to the nature of their own offspring, bred"too -under their
eyes, and--displaying every hour their characteristicsHow'often in
'the nursery does the genius-count -as‘a dunce, ■because- he-is-pensive;
while--a'rattling-urchin--is invested with almost supernatural qualities,
because his animal spirits make him impudent and flippant; ”1 -
•
■
' "Tlhat has Horatio done," said-the-bluff-sailor uncle of Lord
•
• Nelson, "that ho, of all Others, should be'Sent to rough it out at sea?
: But let-him còme, and the-first-time we go-into acti-on>-'à 'cannon-ball
'
"
■
•
H
i
i
i
'
l
l
-knock' off his head, and--provide for-'him at once."f -Here’we have
-a:notable ■instance of wrong judgment.- .fhe.'sailor --únele $as-Unaware of
- the•fact tha t-'the-great Nelson,was born- withQiars. rising >in Scorpio,
and th'at his stars indicateara- -brilliant and victorious' career.
.154
It is hardly possible to deny the usefulness of astrology in
regard to directing as well- as understanding the natural bent of
children’s minds; and in saving several years of unavailing efforts to
excel in pursuit for ivhich the youth is totally unfitted by nature.
Let us bear in-mind the following words of Ruskin:-
-
"Every human action gains in honour, in grace, in all true magni­
ficence,., by its regard to-things that are to come. It is the far sight,
the quiet and confident patience, that, above all other attributes,
separate.man from man, and near him to his Laker, and there is no action
or art whose mystery we may not measure by this test."^
Ruskin was born at 7;30 a.m., February 8, 1819, in London.
R.A. of M,0. = 249°56', Sagittarius 11°28' on the upper meridian, and
Aquarius 16°28’ ascending. Jupiter had just risen in Aquarius 0°20',
the Sun was in the ascendant in 18°46’ of the same sign, and Saturn 'was
also in the ascendant in Pisces 17°05’. His horoscope was given in
..STAR LORE, December 1900. His biographer says that-Ruskin had "a mood
of playing with the occult, believing like so many that 'there is some­
thing in it-, V
,and he declared .that Saturn presided at his birth;
another way of saying that an -unfortunate influence seemed to have pre­
dominated over his life. Weak health,, especially, has to be set off
against a fair- share of wealth; a certain illrluck in little things and
:.personal -aims against the supreme gift of genius., The violent reaction
,
-
_
.
o
’
f a too.sensitive nervous system discounted hisykeen capacity for
enjoyment; and renown, public notice, were much-more trouble to him
than it was ever worth.
Aye, -the nativity of Ruskin, whose, fame will never die, affords
good proof of the reality of the influence of ;
-the celestial bodies. As
he wisely observed "there is something in it," nay, more, there is a
great deal in it— -for it affects the greatest and meanest of mankind;
at one time-
- "when the planets to disorder wander"---it shakes the
earth with terrible effects; at another it brings glorious benefits.
The following saying of John Ruskin is worthy of careful consideration
. by sceptics:—
"Astronomy— by her ancient name ASTROLOGY, as we say Theology,
not Theonomy; the knowledge of so much of the stars as we can know
-wisely; not the attempt to define their laws for them---not that it is
unbecoming of us to find out, if we can, that they move in ellipses,
and so on; but it is no business of ours. What effects their rising
and .setting have on man, and beast, and leaf; what their times and
changes are, seen, and felt in this world, it is our business to know,
passing our nights, if xvakefully, by that divine candlelight, and no
other.”4
The rules found -in several m o d e m books on astrology with
regard to judging as to the number of children.likely "to be born to the
husband, .or by the wife; and the rules advanced as affording a reliable
forecast .
.
a
s.to the chances,of life of the children, whether they will
die.in infancy or attain maturity; and the rules as to "fruitful" and
"barren" signs (of the zodiac), are fanciful, and should be treated as
unreliable ,by the student.; Such rules could only be advanced by those
practitioners who mix up horary with genethliacal astrology, a practice
155
which has brought great confusion into the study and pursuit of the
ancient science. One such rule is that: "If an evil planet or planets
be in the fifth house of a nativity, the native will have very few
children, or if many, most of them will die early in life. It gener­
ally indicates a world of trouble caused by children. If the ruler of
the fifth house is in the sixth, eighth, twelfth, or second house,
especially if an evil planet, it causes unhappiness with children, or
else most of them will die."°
I have examined many hundreds of horoscopes and cannot find
any real evidence of the truth of this rule. One lady, who had Kars
in the Vth house, has reared six children to maturity and lost none,
and is on the happiest terms with all of them.
F001N0TE5
1. Coningsby, Vol. I.
2. Seven Lamps of Architecture, pagd 171.
3. "Life and Work of John Ruskin," by Rev. W. Gershom Collingswood.
4. "Mornings in Florence," the straight gate, fifth morning.
5» "Elements of Astrology," by L* D. Broughton, New York.
•
*
> r*
;
CHAPTER XXVU..
FRIENDS AND ENEMIES
"Tell me, by what hidden magic
: .
. .Qur impressions first are led
Into liking or disliking,
Oft before a word is said.".
Friendship and enmity depend wholly on the concord or discord
of the Sun, Moon, and planets in the nativities of two acquaintances.
The benefics in the one nativity in the place of the Sun or Moon in the
other, favour mutual friendship and esteem; and the person whose Sun or
Moon is happily configurated with the benefic of the other, will benefit
the more. On the other hand, the malefics in the one nativity in the
place of the Sun or Moon in the other, some drawback is likely to result.
Persons born under the same sign of the zodiac, or when the Moon occup­
ied the same degree of Itogitude, often become very friendly, when they
meet. Mars afflicting the luminaries causes misunderstandings. Saturn
similarly placed is apt to give rise to some mistrust or dislike.
Venus and Mercury, says Ptolemy, "produce communion by means of the
arts and sciences, and by a mutual interest in literature," to which
may be added, a mutual interest in sports and amusements.
The eleventh house of a nativity is believed to be symbolical
of friends, the seventh of open enemies, and the twelfth of secret foes.
This notion, so far as it relates to nativities, is very doubtful. The
fact is that persons born when the Sun or Moon is afflicted usually meet
with many enemies, and some mischief from them; whereas, those who are
so fortunate as to be born when the Sun and Moon are happily configurated
with the benefics, find troops of friends, and few enemies. In like
manner, persons born when an ascending planet or planets meet with cross
aspects are involved in misunderstandings, disputes, and quarrels which
may be none of their seeking. The nativity of the Prince Consort is an
instance of this, for the ascending planet Mercury is nearly in quartile
with Mars and Uranus, and in opposition with Saturn. This accounts for
the attacks of jealous and envious people, and of the Ptess, to which he
was subjected at certain periods. The poet Keats was born when cross
aspects prevailed; his fate was a melancholy one, for, being of a too
sensitive nature, he could not survive the merciless criticism of which
he was made the victim.
Fortunate planets ascending or culminating bring numerous
friends. The signs containing the fortunes, or the angles in which they
are located, will show in what part of the world the native will meet
with the greatest number of friends who will advance his interests. The
signs or angles containing the infortunes m i l show the parts of the
world wherein the native would be likely to meet with the most inveter­
ate opposition from public and private enemies.
Dr. Nobiling who wounded the finperor of Germany, by shooting
him in the neck, on the 2nd of June, 1878, was born on April 10, 1848.
At his birth Mars xvas in the place of Saturn at the Emperor’s birth; and
the Moon was in opposition to her place at the Emperor's birth. ON
June 2, 1878, Mars was passing over the Moon’s place at Nobiling’s birth
158
Claudius Ptolemy said that' "Saturn in one nativity in the
place of Mercury in the other denotes friendship by science, art,
business profits, or secret mysteries." This I have proved to be
quite true.
"Nescio quid, certe est quod me tibis temperet astrum."
"What was the star I know not, but certainly some star it was that
attuned me unto thee."
159
CHAPTER XXV1
1 I
TRAVELL I NG'
"The Heavens'give safety to'-your purpose!
lead forth, hnd -bring you. back in happiness."
— •
: '---SHAKESPEARE
The relative position-of the Moon is chiefly tp be considered
in regard to travelling. T
.7hen She is "cadent" in the IXth or Xlld
house more especially'the person then born travels much. 'The IXth
house is considered as indicating long journies; and the Illd house
short journies (such as are completed in a day). The Moon in a sign
of the watery triplicity usually brings travelling by water; and when
so located in the ninth or twelfth house, a sea voyage, early in life.
VJhen, however, the Moon is cadent at birth, and in a fixed sign (with
the exception of Scorpio), the native does not usually travel much.
Claudius Ptolemy considered that Mars when occidental and
declining from the meridian, and in quartile or opposition with the
Sun or Moon causes travelling in foreign countries. This is doubtful,
and the author's oxvn nativity contradicts it, wherein Mars is in the
IXth house in prbximate mundane quartile with the Moon and exact sex-
tile with the Sun.
If the benefics be configurated with the Moon, travelling is
usually prosperous, profitable, and safe. If the malefics be evilly
configurated with the Moon, they threaten troubles, losses, misfortunes,
and bad weather in travelling.
The Moon located, at birth, in the sign Gemini, and oriental,
gives agreat propensity to travel. Both Mercury and the Moon cadent
and in Aries, Canoer, or Capricornus, have the same effect; but when
both are in fixed signs and angles there is little disposition to travel.
VJhen either the Moon, Mars, or Mercury, is found, at birth, in
the ninth or third house, a journey or sea voyage is made when the Moon
or planet comes by primary direction (in rnundo) to the cusp of that house.
Mercury ascending in Aries, Gemini, Cancer, Virgo, Libra,
Sagittarius, Capricornus or Pisces, gives a disposition to travel, or
trade, in foreign countries.
The parts of the world most fortunate for travelling in, may
be judged either from the signs containing the Moon, Mercury, Jupiter
and Venus. The signs containing Saturn and Mars show the countries
unfavourable to any continued stay in.
In travelling for health, consider first the position of
Jupiter, unless he is much afflicted; and, next, that of Venus.
It is averred that if the planet afflicting the Moon be in
Cancer, Scorpio, or Pisces, danger of shipwreck will result; and, if
other testimonies concur, death by drowning. The afflicting planet
being located in the twelfth house, is aid to signify danger of being
kidnapped or imprisoned.
160
\ f/ j<
• 1 .
,
i
i
,
,
Hr. J. VI,, born 6:00 a.m., May 3, 1824, in lat, 54°51' N . ,
and long. 1°28* VI., was •severely'-'¡shaken by the terrible collision at
Abbot's Ripton, January 21, 1876. At that period the following arcs
were oper'a't'ing in-'hi's' nativity;"Sun’
‘
par. Mercury zod. 51°46'; Moon
square 'Sun ¿oa. 52°08'; and Sun par." Uranus zod. 52°11'.
A relation of the author's at whose nativity the Moon was in
the" third' hpb.se ih Scorpio 9°22', Separating 'from quart!le with Saturn
in Aquarius'8°21always met with’
bad'weather at sea, and more than
■ Lonce wah riea'rly being -shipwrecked."', "
S.t >
■
•
V
-
\
.
iwi
0\
1
161
CHAPTER XXIX
THE KIND OF DEATH ¡u •
: •
! . ' ■
-
•
' ■ ' •'There is no death-m-rwhat seems;. .
t
o
- us transition,
■
■
r.l This life of mortal'breath. /.I--
Is but a suburb of the Life -Slysian
Whose portal we call-— D e a t h — LOilGTELLOW.
The TEHhlNÜS "VITAE is sometimes clearly foreshadowed by the
nativity. In forecasting danger, the Christian, astrologer does not
forget that the issues;of life and eath are in the hands of our Creator,
--without Whose knoxvledge not even a sparrow,falls to the ground. It
is not then, in anyiatheistic or fatalistic.spirit that the' astrologer
gives warning of times of danger to life. King David prayed: "Lord,
■let me know mine end, and the'number of my-'days; that I may be certi­
fied how long I have to live." The foreknowledge that in certain cases
life was destined, astrolQgically speaking, to be short, may undoubted­
ly save much human misery. Too often does a
- sudden and unexpected
death lehve the widow'and the fatherless in abject poverty;-whereas,
could the danger of it have been foreseen, adequate provision-might
have-been made for them. The invention of the medical art,"
/
¿s-Téxplained
in a previous chapter, was due to the desire for a-means of bVéhccming
the apparently fatal influences of the evil planets. How often in
everyday life do we,hear of medical men lamenting that the initial stage
of a chronic and fatal malady had not been foreseen or detected early
enough to admit of preventive treatment. Life might in many instances
be prolonged if the insidious attack could be foreseen; change of resi­
dence, of occupation, and of climate could be advised, where necessary,
and other preventive measures taken.
Hufeland said that: —
. "A grand point-, in guarding against disease is -that everyone should
try to discover:to :
what malady he is constitutionallymost disposed, in
order that this tendency may. be destroyed, or at least that all oppor­
tunity of its being converted into disease may be removed. In this re­
spect the ancients were more prudent than we are. They employed the
medical art and physicians chiefly for determining their dietetic mode
of life; and even their astrological, chiromantic, and other researches
of like kind tended, at bottom, to define the moral and physical char­
acter of man, and to prescribe for him, accordingly, a proper mode of
living and a regimen. They undoubtedly did much better in thus employ­
ing their physicians than if they had run to them every week to make
them prescribe for them purgatives or emetics. But for this purpose a
judicious, prudent, and acute physician is necessary;'while, on the
other hand, any empiric is capable of writing a prescription. These
people, at any rate, had a surer means"of distinguishing a false from
a true; prophet."'?-
Claudius 'Ptblemy says that had the ancients been of opinion
that all expected events are unalterable and- not to be averted, they
would never have instituted any propitiations, remedies, and preserva­
tions against-.'the influences of the ambien%-j vwhether present or approach­
ing, general ,or;particular. '
Goethe was seized with smallpox very early in life— the
planet Mars being in ¿kai-quattile1-aspect (in mundo) to the ascendant
at.iiis birth. But inasmuch as the hyleg was not afflicted, he did
not‘die of that'"att'a'dk:',; and his health was not prejudiced by it in
after life. Astrologers find-that unless Mars afflict either the
ascendant op luraiiahiesy'at bifth (or-in the fatal train of directions)
there i
'
s 'Iittl'b7~£i‘
shy> liability of smallpox. The doctors are wrong
.in^asstmin^ that every child born will, if it live, certainly contract
v^ a X l p 6x ■è9ôner''éï’later“
'if’
i
t-':
be not vaccinated in infancy; and
‘
Parliameht; i s ’
hot'’
justified In passing penal laws, and retaining them
oh"the Statute"book, to enforce vaccination^ to support a medical dogma
’based on' a delusion, and on incomplete statistics manipulated by
lànâtièal believers in the practice of the rite.
The inexorable logic of facts is against the practice of
'vaccination.
" ' The kind of death depends chiefly on the nature of the planets
whose’'
’
directions" operate to cause death (astrologically speaking).
The signs in which such planets were located at ’
birth may be considered
in forecasting the nature of the fatal illness, and the part of.'the
body attacked.
Uranus threatens nervous breakdown, and a sudden death, of a
peculiar nature.
•'Saturn indicates death by falls, crushing, or suffocations,
when close-to-the ascendant or in the-mid-heaven; and by chronic
diseases arising from rheumatic fever, and its effects upon the.heart,
lovf or continued fever, ague, paralysis, epilepsy, or melancholia, when
occidental. In a fixed sign and*afflicting the hyleg cancerous disease.
■Jupiter-(widen much1afflicted in a’
-nativity5
)"may become a
promittor in-death, in such cases he signifies quinsy,-apoplexy, pleur­
isy, inflammation of-the lungs, liver-disease, spasms, and failure of
the heart.
Mars indicates death by acute'or eruptive fever, bronchitis,
pneumonia, haemoptysis, and all kinds of hoemorrhage; and (in women)
abortion, and surgical extraction of the foetus. When oriental, Mars
signifies burns,' scalds, incised and gunshot wounds-.
Tenus (when much afflicted at birth and concerned- in.the train
of fatal directions) signifies death by poison, diseases of the stomach
or liver, and excess in eating or drinking. .
Mercury indicates death (when oriental) by accidents;Qf the
nature of the planet with which he is in aspect (at-birth); -when
occidental, by brain-disease, nervous disorders, whooping cough, etc.,
according to his configurations with-the malefics. ■If with or afflicted
by-Mars and Saturn, by assaults of- robbers. •
’ -
•
The Moon signifies, death by surfeits, obstructions,-etc.,
according to her familiarity with the-malefi'Cs. When in' a wat-èîy sign
and evilly configurated with Saturn, death may take place by drowning.
163
The Sua, wàèa afflicted, at birth arid •
in,
'qttartile or opposition
to the Moon or ascendantWhlchever may behylegy “
causés- death by
apoplexy, paralysis, -or fever. n j
"
.
Death-occurs by violence when Mars and Saturn and evil fixed
stars afflict the hyleg, and are'in mutual-quartile or opposition.
Saturn, in such cases, particularly when in Taurus, indicates death by
hanging, or suffocation. Saturn in opposition to either the Sun or
Mood- rising, is aaid to threaten death in prison. Venus and Mercury
conjoinéd-with Saturn, the last-named afflicting the hyleg, death is
threatened from pisón, or through -the treachery of a woman. Saturn in
Virgo, a
r
i
d
- afflicting the Moon (hyleg) death will be caused by drowning
or suffocation.-. If found near Argo, by shipwreck. If Saturn be in a
tropical or quadrupedral sign, and the Sun be in conjunction or opposi­
tion, or Mars be so, death will be caused by the fall of buildings; and
if Saturn be in the raid-heaven and so configurated with the Sun or Mars,
death will' result through falls from heights or precipices, especially
if he be'in an airy sign.
■Satrim and Mars in Gemini,-Virgo, Aquarius-, or Sagittarius,
and in square, of opposition with-th-e Sun or Moon'threaten death by
•violence,
-in battle-, of by suicide. If Mercury alas' -be ëvi'lly config­
urated with Mars,- death m i l be caused by highwaymen or burglars:. Mars
near Caput Medu-sae is said to threaten death by' decapitation or mutila­
tion. If Mars be in Taurus or Scorpio afflicting the hyleg, death may
result frori'surgical amputation, burning, or scaldihg’
, or by smallpox.
’
If-Mars be in opposition to the ascendant, and in Aries,'Leo', or
Sagittarius it threatens' death by fire or gunshot wounds', especially
if near the Asselli; if In Aries, Taurus, Leo;-Sagittarius, or Capri-
comus, and -so situated ,'by falls ■
or •fractures. If Jupiter beàr testi­
mony, and be'also afflicted -"death may ensue from, the'wrath of princes
and kings, and from judicial' condemnation," wrote Claudius Ptolemy.
In the nativity of John Baptist Cardan (son of'thé great Cardan),
who vías beheaded on the scaffold by an executioner of justice for de­
stroying his wife by poison, Jupiter was afflicted and aspëcted by Mars,
and the Moon was afflicted by the parallels of thé Sun and the infor­
tunes,^ and the Sun and Moon were with violent'fixed stars. "Death will
occur in foreign places," wrote Ptolemy, "when the planets controlling
the anaretic places, may b¿ in cadent houses, and especially'if the
Moon be in one of the said places."
At the period•of death a train of evil directions is usually
found to be in operation, one evil direction, however powerful, rarely
destroys life. Mhen the Moon is h yleg, and'is directed to the conjunc­
tion of an evil planet, if her latitude, when she completes the aspect,
differs greatly from that of the planet at birth, life will generally be
saved, although a dangerous illness may result¿ If there be a direction
of Jupiter or Venus to conjunction or trine, or parallel declination with
the hyleg in the train of otherwise evil directions, or within two
degrees thereof, life will’ be saved, provided that Jupiter of Venus be
not badly afflicted at birth.- Even a sextile of one of them has. some­
times saved life. " - - : ■
. ' . ' - . y * •
-
••
The following- cases are interesting arid instructive:-
-
164-
- "Case li;
— --"HiL'í" a-l'Ieutenant in a native infantry regiment of
Sengal:
;
'
;was' killed in a sortie from Lucknow,-July'16, 1857. He was
born precisely at noon of November 5, 1826 /-at Gloucester. At his
birth Capricomus 11° xvas rising, liars, Uranus, and the Moon being
■conjoined in-'that'sign. The Sun vías on the meridian, and in mundane
•gqtere■with‘Sa-tUrnV--"Saturn, Mars, and'Uranus were in parallel declina-
tion-'vdth-'the amending degree. Any student who will take the trouble
-to ca-st th-is^ 'figure will- find that the ■following directions -correspond
-"exactly to' the period of death: Sun par."Saturn zod. 30°35:', Sun :
par.
U'fánüs- zod. 30942'. The sign Capricomus'rules India, and the death
took place in that country. (N.B.— The nativity requires no "rectifi­
cation," ■and the time of birth is given just as the author received it
fromU-the sister of the unfortunate officer.. The R.A. of the M.C. was
224°10' .) • :
2.---"G ,U.," born 0:54 a.ra, , June 10, 1853, at Sunderland. .Died
'•of confluent I smallpox (he-.was vaccinated in infancy), August.1,: 1871,
at the sixteenth day. Uranus, Mars, and Saturn nearly conjoined1in
Taurus. The 6th degree of Aries on the ascendant (hyleg). At the time
'•of.'deat-h the, following, train of directions operated: Asc. par. Mars zod.
•.•17°58* , Asc. conjunct Mars zod,. 18?32', and Asc. 'conjunct Mars.'m. 19°19'.
•Thev.arc.-of Asc.conjunct Saturn, zod. 21°17' was- near at hand.--(N.B.—
The. time of birth is- given as found in the family .-Bible-
. .-Mars is the
.killing.'.planet-,-.;.and the fatal illness was martial.;);--,,. -
.
. 3:— .-r"C.B¿"/bom October 18,(1838, at 6:00 a.m., Sunderland, At
the birth, .Mars w&Suin the Xth house, in opposition to -the Moon",,
and in
par,...dec. with both ,
the Sun and Moon. The Sun.was. hyleg. - This gentle-
.
man broke a-blood vpqa.el in January, 1866, undep; Asc.-
,'square Mars, m. 27°
15'-. He died in the.
spring-- of -1869,of consumption,: under the following
.train of evil-directions: Sun square Mars zod. 30°10', Asc. square Moon
m.,'30o24'., and ..Sum.-conjunct and par. Saturn-m. d.d. ,31°Q8* „
4.:— -Czar Alexander II was born at 10:00 a.m.; .April 29, 1818, at
Moscow* Leo 4°42' ascending. The Sun (hyleg) was in-the-Xth-house in
Taurus 8°211,
, in mundane semi-quartile aspect with both Mars. a-nd .Saturn
(the. latter planet being ruler of the Viiith, the-house.of death), and
,
the•
mundane parallel of Saturn. The Moon vías afflicted..
by-'the ;sesqui-
quadrate of Mars, the mundane■parallel of.Uranus, and .was ¡in. opposition
to the .martial star Regulus. The Asselli were very near..the..ascending
degree, which had the sesquiquadrate aspect of Uranus.. The primary
direction of Sun rapt paiallel Mars 63°12' = July 1881. As Zadkile I
-and the.-author have-observed and maintained (for years, .previous to 1881)
all dii’
ectional parallels operate, as a rule, several weeks before they
are exactly due. Moreover, if the Sun's semi-diameter 0°16' be.sub­
tracted from.the arc of 63°12', we have 62°56* = March 1881, as .the arc
.of.first contact of the Sun's limb with the parallel of Mars (the direc-
vt'ion being computed to the Sun's centre) and the Czar was cruelly
assassinated on March .
1
3
.
,
- 1881, by the explosion, of a bomb .throvm at his
feet .by the.-agsassin.Moreover,, the dangerous direction of Sun parallel
.¡Saturn, ;in the zodiac, conversely, 63°23' closely .followed the"before-
•mentioned rapt- parallel.- .It vías the train of five ¡evil directions (62°
20' to 63°52') which led the author to foretell that; ^The-,;czar. of Russia
will be in some personal danger about the 6th of March, 1881," and to say
that .:"He .will-do .well -to'¡prepare .for the dread s u m m o n s 5 This warning
19.5
was written in July 1880, and published five .months before the- tragic
death of "Alexander the Liberator" took'place.
5,-
- King Humbert,' of'Italy wa-s born at 10:30-a,mr , March 14, 1844,
at'Turin, according to the official Bulletin. R.A. of M.C. 329'037’.
This horoscope was given in STAR LORIS, May 1897. The Sun in Pisces
23°57 1 was in sani-quartile with-Mars in Taurus 7°05', and was separat­
ing from conjunction with Jupiter in -Pisces IS^S* and applying to
Uranus in Aries 1°46'. The Moon'was in mundane quartile with'-Mars and
applying to 'conjunction with Saturn; Regulus was close -to-the’
flower
meridian. An attempt was made to assassinate King Humbert1-in April,
1897, when Sun parallel Saturn, zodiac, first contact * was operating in
his nativity, by primary direction. In the evening of July 29, 1900,
and anarchist shot the king, who died of his wounds ere' he could be
carried to the Palace. The author wrote, twelve months beforehand, that
in August' 1900^ the kind-would be "plagued by insidious foes and should
beware of anarchists." The-arc for death (1°- = 1 year)' is- 56°22', and
the primary directions then operating were: Sun parallel U-rahus, m . ,
con. 56°14', Mercury conjunction Mars,
.m. 56°16*, Mercury conjunction
Mars, zodiac, 56°25’, .and' Ascendant par. Sun zod. con. 56°29 ’. The
nativity shows Mars close, to (above), the cusp of the Xii'th,'the house
of secret enemies. Mercury, ruler of the ascending sign, was ruler of
the nativity, being in the Kth house, elecated above the rest of the
celestial bodies.
6. ---Dr. D. , born at 9:00 p.m., November 2
'
6
'
, 1860, at Warsaw. R,A.
of M.C. - 20°57', Aries 22°39' culminating, and Leo 10°53' ascending.
The Sun in the Vth house.;
in Sagittarius 4°50’, in quartile with Mars in
the Vlllth, in Pisces 3°41', in par. decl. with Moon in the Xth house,
in Taurus 15°37'; and applying to quartile with Saturn in Virgo 9°03.'
and to opposition with Uranus in Gemini 10°17'. This learned and •
successful (in cure work) physician lost his valuable life during t h e ^ ‘
revolutionary outbreak in Russian Poland in the year 1907, by assassina­
tion! He was a diligent student of astrologia sana, and wrote in a
medical periodical very highly of (the first edition of-) the- "The
Text Book of Astrology."- ' • ■
The sceptic may remind us that the great majority of diseases
premature.death, and deformity, are due to the violation of natural laws.
A pure atmosphere, a plain and nourishing diet, plenty of ouM-door
exercise, early hours, personal cleanliness,- abstinence from excessive
indulgence.in stimulants, and a cheerful temperament, are 'undoubtedly,
the best-means of preserving health and of preventing disease. Never­
theless, it is a fact that the diseases to which an individual is liable,
or-those which he inherits,- are as a rule plainly indicated in the face
of the heavens at the moment of his birth.. It is the Kartialist who
rushes into danger, or excesses, who brings- diseases or wounds upon him­
self. It is the Saturnine man who;mopes and- frets, and thereby ''renders
himself liable to liver-disease., to melancholia, and suicidal'mania.
It is the Mercurial man who exhausts his nervous energies..:hy that rest­
less activity so characteristic of modern life. It is the' Saturnine man
who is liable, to catarrhs that despite, his daily use of the cold bath and
the exercise of most unceasing vigilance, he "catches.cold" frani the
slightest "draught of air,"., or the: slightest wetting, and is'the ready
prey of the germs of phthsis. It is the Martialist who beccmes the
Ì
'
6-
S
■
.Victim, of.acute, fevers. ft is true that,people who are blessed with
the greatest amount.
of-vitality— due largely to their having been b o m \
when Jupiter or Venus, or both, were rising, or supporting the Sun and
.lloon— the. greatest power .of resistance,-and who observe the conditions
;'of health nefore-naraed, are almost proof ■against the attack of any kind
-of disease,.and pass unharmed through the city decimated by yellow
.
.
fever, plague,;cholera, diphtheria, etc., as the case may be. But then
: it is also true that the face of the heavens as constituted at birth of
. such persons,-haimonises with the possession of so enviable a store of
..Vitality and stamina.; There are others who are born to a different fate,
for they take whatever disease happens to be epidemic. I t ■is a fact
.well-known, to. astrologers that persons bona under the sign SUgittary
have (unless the hyleg happens to be afflicted), a great love.of out­
door exercises and. sports, and enjoy good health, strength, and vitality.
In the year 1588 -
the puke of Guise, a few days before he and
his brother were murdered, had a presentiment..of personal danger; after­
wards, a more direct caution-warned, dim of. the existence of a
. plot
•against his life: It was,
.however, the general opinion that.no such
.attempt would be made. On Decomber 22d, as,the Duke sat down-;to dinner,
he. saw a note- in his napkin. Opening it he-.read, "Take care; an evil
turn is about to -be played on you." He wrote underneath it, "They dare
not," and.flung thè. paper under the table. On the same day. the Due d ’
Elboeuf told him there would be an attempt on his life the.next morning,
upon which Guise said, smiling, "I see, cousin, you have been looking at
your AIMANAC. All the Almanacs.this-year are stuffed full of such threats."
FOOTNOTES.. .
1. Hufeland’s .
ART 0? PAQLQKGinG LIFE, edited by. Erasmus Vi Ison,
F.R.S.; translation of 1794, pages 250, 251.
2. But for the terror caused ¡-by exaggerated statements as.to the
fatality and sequelae of smallpox, and but for the fear .of pitting,
people ’
would never submit to the insertion of.lymph, taken from a dis­
eased calf, into’
.
’
their system. The asserted-modifying power of vaccina­
tion is, to say the least, open td grave -doubt. In smallpox.as in
measles and scarlatina there are several varieties, and while one person
takes the disease in a mild form, another takes it in a malignant form.
Jenner, in 1798 (in his INQUIRY INTO THE CAUSE AND EFFECTS OF.THE
VARIOIAE VACCINAE, pages 54,55) recorded that, "About seven years ago a
species of smallpox spread through many of the towns and villages of
this part, of Glocestershire; it- was one .of so mild a nature that a fatal
instance was scarcely ever heard, of." This was before vaccination was
practised.
3. See OPUS REFOHIA.TUK, by Dr. Partride, Physician to Queen Mary
II, London, 1693.
4. The Vlllth and IVth houses. If no planet be located--in the Vlllth
■house, if there be one in the IVth, the latter often partakes in the
signification of the kind of .death.. The presence of Jupiter an the Vlllth
•does not promise a painless and natural death, if the hyleg is afflicted
by Saturn or Mars.
5. Vide Zadkiel's Almanac for 1881, pages 9 and 12', and 1882, pp.
53-63.- Punch was candid and kind enough■to acknowledge that the above
forecast was a case -
of."hitting the bull’s eye."
CHAPTER XXX
.ON PRIMARY DIRECT,|O.NS
167
Primary Directions are arithmetical computations of the
apparent motion of any point in the heavens or of any heavenly body,
from the situation which it occupied at the moment of birth until it
meets with the conjunction, parallel of declination, or aspect of some
other body or point.. The, value thus obtained is. termed the. "arc of
direction.," and it is .converted into time by allowing every degree of
arc to represent one year of life, and every.-five minutes over and
above the number of degrees to represent one laonth.
All directions-of the midheaven are measured by an arc of
right ascension. All directions of the ascendant in mundo by .the semi­
arc of the body direct, and in zodiaco by oblique ascension.
All the directions of the Sun-, Moon, and planets are computed
by means, .of'their semi-arcs. Those-directions .which .are taken "in-the
zodiac," and for the sake'of"classification called zodiacal, are really
mundane. .
Primary directions are due to the revolution of the:-earth on
its axis, and all those to be computed for a hundred years are fonaed
within, comparatively, a few hours of the. moment 6f birth*. •
The place of a heavenly body in a nativity is considered as
if it were the body itself, for the various- celestial bodies are found
t o 'impress their respective natures on the. places held by thorn at the
moment of birth as fully as if they viere always located therein, although,
by their proper motion, they may have passed (in the heavens) away from
their respective places several or many degrees when the- significator ?
(the body directed to those places) arrives-
- thus, if the Sun be'direct-
ed to conjunction with Jupiter, we mean to the- radical place of Jupiter.
The speculum, or table of the latitudes, declinations, right-
ascensions, meridian distances, and sani-arcs of the Sun, Moon, Mer-
cury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Uranus, and Neptune must be- carefully com­
puted, as directed in the seventh chapter, before any primary direc­
tions can be calculated. .In fact, the "horoscope" is not complete with­
out the speculum, and without it. no proper, judgment as to its irnport
can.be safely given.
The mundane directions of the Midheaven and ascendant should
be calculated first, for -they give-the distancé of each celestial body
from the..cusps of the various houses, and -thereby-facilitate the work­
ing of the mundane directions of the Sun, Moon .and planets.
Many practising astrologers- of the present'.day ignore mundane
directions— ho doubt because they are either too lazy to compute them
or so imperfectly educated that they cannot understand the method of
computing them. Students who read only such publications 'on astrology
as omit all instruction in the Placidian system -of1directing-, and sub­
stitute the old Arabian method of "secondary directions," only waste
their time. The errors of such instructors is all-the more -glaring in
168
that they fail to see and comprehend that the ’
’
Tables of Houses" —
and the very ÀSCI&ÎDA17T ■
of;
'the figure' of tie heavens which they cast
by the aid of such tables'-— are really MUNDANEI
■
■
■ LIÜHDÂMS DXHiSGTtONS‘
‘OF' lîïÊ
'
•
•
• Rule 1.---To find' thè'
Conjunction of a celestial body' with.1the
MidheâVen' (II.C. )
-
, take its distahcé therefrom-
- or meridian distance---
as the ARC OF DIRECTION, if such body is between the ascendant, and
midheaven. This is termed a DIRECT- direction. ._
2.-
- If the celestial body Is between' the midheaveh and the des­
cendant, its meridian distance is the ARC OF DIRECTION of Midheaven
conjunction wi'th'sueh body CONVERSELY.
■3.— '-For thè SEXTILE aspect (two'
houses ), if the celestial body
is in the twelfth house, subtract two-thirds of its semi-arc from its
meridian distance to find the arc of direction of the'sextile.
T-f the- celestial body is in the' first or second 'house, sub­
tract two-thirds of its diurnal semi-arc from its distance from the
upper meridian, This is a DIRECT direction.
■ N„B.;
— r-The DIURNMi semi-arc of a'body so placed may be found by
subtracting'" its nocturnal1semi-arc from-180 degrees.
' , If the celestial body is in the'seventh house, subtract two-
thirds o.f it.s semi-arc from'its meridian distance. This is a CONVERSE
direction.
.'4.— — To find the SMI-QDARTILE, subtract one-half of the semi-arc
of the'body directed from its meridian-distance.- -If, however, the
celestial body is. less than half-way between the ascendant; and mid-
heaven at birth, subtract the meridian distance from two-thirds of its
semi-arc, to find the arc of direction-
- a CONVERSE one.
If. the celestial body■is-between the'upper meridian and the
descendant (i.e. in the ninth or first half -of thè'eighth house,) sub­
tract its.-meridian distance from two-thirds of its semi-arc. If .it is
near the cusp :
of the eighth or in'tjre seventh house, subtract two-thirds
of its semi-arc from its meridian distance, to' find the ARC of .its
semi-quartile to theM.C., CONVERSELY. * v' "
' '
5.-— For the. OPPOSITION to’the M . C f take" tHe planet *s distance
from -the -lower meridian as the ARC OF DIRECTION, if it. is between the
cusp of the seventh house and- the'lower meridian. If-the celestial
body is in-the third, second'*- or first'house, its meridian distance
(from the I.C.) is the ARC OF DIRECTION of its OPFOSIEON to the M.C.,
CONVERSELY. " ; .
6*
:
---For the TRINE, if'the planet is in the third"cjr "second house,
-subtract its Meridian distance from two-thirds of its 's&ni-arc. .If in
the-first house, subtract two-thirds of its semi-afc .from .its meridian
.distance to .find the ARC OF DIRECTION, CONVERSELY. /
"
.,169
If the clestial body is in the sixth, house subtract two-
.
thirds of its semi-arc from its meridian distance. .If ip the seventh
or eighth house, add one-third of its nocturnal semi-arc to the arc
for its opposition to the ascendant.
... MUNDANE DIRECTIONS'
RULE II.— For the CONJUNCTION of the Sun or Moon or planet with
the ASCENDANT:— When the clestial body is i n ’
.
'
t
h
e third, second, or
first house, subtract its meridian distance (i.e. from the lower
meridian,or I.C.) from its semi-arc to find the ARC OF DIRECTION. If
the celestial body is in the fourth, fifth or sixth house, ADD its
meridian distance to its semi-arc to find the ARC OF-DIRECTION, because
it has to. pass the .lower meridian.
2 .—— For the OPPOSITION:— -When the clestial. body is in the ninth,
eighth or. seventh house, subtract its meridian, distance .from its semi-
arc,- to find the ARC OF DIRECTION. If it is eastward p.f the upper
meridian, ADD 'its meridian distance to its semi-arc.
3. --For the SENTTLEjOf the ascendant:---When the planet directed
is in the third house, subtract its meridian distance from one-third of
its semi-arc, to find the ARC O'F DIRECTION. If it is in the second or
first house, subtract one-third of its semi-arc from its meridian dis­
tance to find the arc of direction, CONVERSELY... .
4. --For the TRINE aspect:---If the eelestial body is in the sixth
or fifth house, subtract one-third of.'its semi-arc from its meridian
distance, to find the ARC, OF DIRECTION. If the'heavenly body is in the
seventh or eighth house,'add two-thirds of its. NOCIURNAL semi-arc to the
arc of its opposition to the ascendant, to find the ARC OF DIRECTION.
If it is in the ninth or tenth house, add one-third of its serai-arc to
its meridian distance,.and the sum is the arc of direction. If it is
in the ninth house,, subtract its meridian distance from one-third of
its semi-arc. If it is in the eighth or seventh house, subtract one-
third of its semi-arc from its meridian distance, to find the. ARC OF
DIRECTION, CONVERSELY.
5. -— The sesqui-quadrate above the horizon, in the eighth house
is the same direction as the semi-quartile already formed to the Mid­
heaven. To find the arc of direction of the sesqui-quadrate in the
fifth house, if the celestial body is in the sixth house (at birth)
subtract half of its semi^arc from his meridian distance. If in the
seventh or eighth house, add-half of its nocturnal semi-arc to the are
of its oppositibn to the ascendant. If the celestial body is in the
fourth house subtract its meridian distance fj?am half of its semi-arc,
and the sum is the"sesqui-quadrate, conversely'. If in the third house,
add half o T its semi-arc to its.meridian-distance.
RULE III.— To direct the Sun, Moon, and planets to (mundane)
PARALLELS FROM TEE meridian. , .
1.-
- Say; As the semi-arc of the Sun, Moon or planet, is to the
semi-arc of the celestial body.directed, so is its meridian'distance to
the sdcond-distance (of the body directed) from the meridian-..-. .
E '
■
170
•
i ;
; 2,-— Then:v£ake the.,difference between ‘
the second distance of the
body directed so ¡fouj^L -from meridian' distance (at time-of birth),
and the remainder is the ARC! .
'
O
S
’
'DIRECTION.
N.B,— -If the body directed has to pass the- meridian in -order to
form the -parallel, then its..second distance must be added to its first
distance, and the sum is the-
“
ARC OF DIRECHON »
HOLE IV. -RAFT -PARACELS.-— These are formed' !
by the rotation of
the. earth on its a^is, ,
’
Tii'èy’
require careful consideration. In the
firs,t place, ,the planet approaching the upper or lower meridian when
•the, parallel,
.
is .completed, must be directeid.
-
, ;.i , Say:. "As the sum ot'.’
the semi-arcs of both bodies is to the
semi-arc of the celestial body directed, so is the difference of their
rig ht-ascensions to the second distance of the body directed."
•2.---The difference of the first and second distances of the body
directed, is..the ARC OF DIRECTION. '•/;
.
. (Note.-— When the body directed happens to be in the opposite
hemisphere to,,that in which the other body is lqcated, the opposite
place of the latter must be worked with as if it were really there.
■In such case its semi-arc will, of course, be the same; but its right
ascension will require either 180° added to or subtracted from it-
-
according to whether it is greater or less than half the circle— to
obtain the value of the R.A. of its opposite place in the zodiac.)
In ascertaining thè difference of right-ascension 'between the
two; celestial bodies, care must be taken to compute it in the order of
the signs, adding the circle when necessary. For example: Let the
Sun- be in the third house -
w
j
(
,
t
h 332°10' of R.A,, and Saturn in the fourth
house with 8°17’ of IÎ.A.,;..in’
,order to find the difference of their right
ascensions 360° must be add.ed .to that of Saturn, and the resulting dif­
ference will be 36°7'.
If the celestial body directed is below the ascendant and has
to rise before it can complete the rapt parallel with the one in the
seventh or eighth house, the diurnal sémi-arc of the' former must be
taken. In like manner if a celestial body in the seventh, or eighth
house at birth has to set before it can be directed to the"i'apt parallel
with one in the first or second house; the nocturnal semi-arc of the
former must b.e taken.
(It is usually best to work with, half'of each quantity, and
then to double" the product.)
MUNDANE DIRECTIONS OF THE SUN, MOON, AND.' PLANETS
RULE.:— 1. Say: "As the semi-arc of the fixed body is to that of
the body directed'so the distance of the' latter from, the Cusp.'of the
house to which' it is nearest, to its second distance from the cusp of
the house in aspect to the former."
2.— -Subtract the second distance'from the primary'distance, and
the difference will be the.ARC OF DIRECTION.
(Note.— The body, to be. directed is always that one which '1by the
diurnal resolution of'the' earth) will arrive at the aspect of the other.
171
YJhen the body directed has to cross the horizon to form the required
aspect, its opposite semi-arc must be taken.)
In enumerating these directions of the Gun, Loon, and
planets, write the symbol of the Sun or Loon first; and those direc­
tions in which the planet's semi-arc is employed in the first position,
term CONVERSE, and append this word, or its abbreviation con., to such
directions. Eor example, the Sun directed to the mundane parallel of
Saturn in the nativity of the Prince Consort (see speculum p. 47)
should be described as Sun par. Saturn m . , con. But, on the other
hand, tvhen Saturn is directed to the mundane parallel of the Sun, in
the same nativity it should be described as Sun par. Saturn m . , d.d.
The Sun and Moon may be directed to aspects of their own
places by taking the proportional parts of their semi-arcs when these
aspects are formed in one and the same hemisphere.
The Sun and Loon may be directed to their own mundane
parallels by doubling their meridian distances when East of the M.C.,
or in the IVth house.
CHAPTER XXXI 173 '
EXAMPLES OF RULES FOR WORKING MUNDANE DIRECTIONS
MUNDANE DIRECTE Olfe-TQ- THE ANGLES.v ‘
Example 1.'— -'Required the arc of M.C. ' --in the n ativity o f
the Prince Consort. .j-u.■
■
Right Ascension o f $ . . . , . . . . . . 259°39*
Right Ascension'of loxve'r meridian* . . . . . 2
1s
,4- 28
. : Are of D irection..................1 . . . , . 15° I I '
Example 2.----Required the arc o f Asc. <? fj,'in the same n ativity.
'Sémi-áre' óf Í2 . . ' . ; . . . , ......................86°53*
Meridian distance 'of ^ • • V' . ■
.................... 6it- 12
| Arc of Direction. ....................................... 22°Í4-|
(N.’b‘,— ^This is' bringing to the cusp'of the Vllth house.)
Example 3 .—-Required ^hé arc of M.C, A in the same n ativity.
One-third of the semi-arc (nocturnal)2 off2. . $ \ ° Q 2 '
•
. ■
._ .. . Distance of from cusp o f T ilth house (plu s). 22 ij.1
Arc of Direction. . . . . . . . . . . 53°U-3
- • -Example 4.----Required the arc. of Il.C. ssQ in the same n ativity.
. One-sixth of the semi-arc (nocturnal) o f Í2.. • 15 °3 I
Distance of from cusp of VIth. house (Dins) . 53 4-3
Arc of D irection .. . » .................... .... . 69°l h-'
Example 5.----Required the arc of Ase. A 2
J
. •in ..the same n ativity
■ Meridian distance o f 2
J
. . . . , , . . .. . . 67959*
One-third of semi-arc of 2
J
. .......................... .. $8- Q2
Arc of Direction. . . . .......................... 2905T
Example 6,.---Required the arc o f II.C, d d in the same n ativity.
Right ascension of o'. . . . ; . . . '. . . 82“lid '
: # _ #Right ascension p'f Í.I.C. . . . . . . . . . . 6il 28
.-LAX •: •
•
• - Arc of Direction or 1
1eri.di.an :D.istanceof <f |8°|8*
Example 7.----Required the arc of J...C. f D CONVERSE, in the same
n ativity. , . . .
. _ Right ascension .of lower meridian • • 2lyl°28
: Right ascensión- of D. . . . ". . . . . . . . 209 3&
Arc o f Direction - ¿ ; r.-..'-:. , .
1. 'See* page-47. •
• • .... - ..... ~ .
2. 'This is found by taking, the' semiParc. diurnal of from 180°.
174
..DIRECT DIRECTIONS TO THE SUN AND MOON.-
- Ukem-the planets
are "directed to the places of the Sun and Moon, the process is called
"direct direction." When the Sun or Moon is directed to the planets,
it is termed "converse direction."- .The latter is the more powerful.
,. Example 1. Required .the arc of O A 2{,d.d., in the nativity of
thé Prince Consort.
In this instance 2[ will have to be brought uf to a distance
outside the Vth house, from its qusp, proportionate •(according to their
semi-arcs) to the distance of the'Sun outside thé 1st house (which is
in trine to the 7th). The distance of the Sun outside the first can be
:
found by taking his meridian* di-stance from his- semi-arc, thus: 1C3°11'-
89°37' - 13°34', which is Asc. R © conv. Then:— .
5'-; «2U-I 66
As the semi-arc o f © 103°12*(prop.log.)(a.c ) •
To fhe'semi‘arc of 2
)
. 114°06'‘
. • • • «19799
■ • So is distance of© above ascendant'I3°34' . . 1 ,|2280
To second distance of 2
J
.15°00 ' . . . . . . . I.07913
The distance of % from the .cusp of the 7th house is 29°57'
(Asc.A 2L ). Then' 29°57' plus 15°00' '
;
^':
'44°57’ the ARC OF DIRECTION of
© A 2|_d.d. •
: . . .
Example 2.— -Required the arc of © A2J. d.d., in the nativity of
the Pri,nce Consort. . . . . , • •
Constant log.^ of © . . . . . .
■
*
.
-
■
•
•
•
. ■¿1. . 0.8 8 1llf
Log. of semi-arc diurnal of §
• 89°17’ . . . . .30<i-lr50
Log. of second distance of $ 11°44' . .' • . . I .1856Î
4
The distance of § from the ascendant (asc.R $ ) is 17°09'.
Then 17°09' plus 11°44' = 28°55', the arc of direction.
(N.B,— In this case the diurnal semi arc of $ is taken in the
second term because must pass the horizon in order to arrive at the
Sun's place. This, conjunction is also the (mundane) parallel of ©
and Ç . )
■ CONVERSE DIRECTIONS OF THE SUN AND MOON
Example 1.-
- Required the arc of ¡
) A % converse, in the nativity
of the Prince Consort.
As the semi arc of2|. 114°06', log. a.c*; . . .
9«8020i
•To the semi arc ofD' 107°32'...................... 22373
So the distanceof from cusp of YIth, 8°05'. 1.3^4-700
To the second distance of S 7°37'. . . . I.373^2
The Moon has to pass the cusp of the lid house to form the
trine aspect with Jupiter's place outside the cusp of the 71th. The
Moon's distance from the cusp of the'IId house is 36°51' (M.C.
Therefore, 36°51 * plus 7°37' = 44P28-V .the arc of direction of D A 2
[
conversely.
t3. Found by adding the log. (a.c) of. the semiare, to the log,^ of the
meridian distance of ©.
175
{■
;■
: , When,-onq arc#is. compütëd,,’others may' bq obtained from it by
•merely'adding or subtracting;vàs the case'may be, the proportional part
/
•
o
i
f
-the' semi-arc of the body directed',,:''-provided that they are fonned in
thè same hemisphere as the first.. For example, theQ of D to 2(.may be
found by subtracting one-third of the semiarc of D from the previous arc,
.Vthi^s: 44°28’ - 35051' = 8°37,’,.the arc of D Ü % converse. The sesqui-
quad’
rate may be found by adding.one-sixth of the isèmi-arc of D to the
:.arc of the A *
, thus 44'°2Ô V plus 17°56‘-'^ 62°24*. the arc of D s s O %
'cohverseiy. ' - - . .
.
■
i■\ . .
.PARALLELS DIRECT'AND CONVERSE.
Example 1.— -Required the arc of©- parallel direct direction,
in the nativity of the-brince Consort.
■
''As the sani arc of-O -103°12V, log. a.c. .. .
, .
* ,9;7,5&34-
: To the semi arc (no-cturnal) of ^ 93°07' , ,• .’ .2oo25
So the meridian distance of O 8 9 03 7 ' ........ !<'.3Q288
To the second distance of h 8 0 ° 5 2 ' .............. 3k-7k-7
The primary distance off^ from the lower meridian is 115048',
ergo 115°48’ - 80°52’ = 34°56' the arc of O par. m. d.d.
In this instance forms the parallel (below the horizon) in
the VIth house, therefore the nocturnal semiarc of""^ is taken in the
third term; and, of course, the parallel of the O and is O <
? also.
Example 2.-
- Required the arc of D parallel 2
J
. conversely in the
same nativity.
As the semi arc of % 114°06’ log. a.c........ 9 »8020 I
To the semi arc of 5
) 107°33*......................22375
So the meridian distance of 67°59* . . . . .14-2287
To second distance of S 64°04'.......... .. . 1
Then 64°04' - 34°50’ (primary meridian distance of J
) ) -
29°14' the arc of direction of S par. 2
J
. conversely.
Example 3.-
- Required the arc of D parallel# direct direction,
in the same nativity.
As the semi arc ofD 107°32’, log a.c.. . . . 9*77^27
To the semi arc ofIjl 121°09'. . . . . . . . .17195
So the meridian distance of D 34°50' . . . . .7 |32o
To the second distance o f# 39°15' . . . . . .66l50
To form this parallel 1$ has to pass the lovier meridian, there­
fore the second distance must be added to the primary distance of#
from the nadir, thus : 15°11' plus 39°15’ = 54°26’.
RAPT PARALLELS.
Example 1.-
- Required the arc of D Rapt Parallel 9, in the
nativity of the Prince Consort.
176
Semi arc of:ZP* 'IQ7?J2 / R.A. of 9.
■ Semi arc of 9 ¡v- 109 £ 2 R.A. of ¿>'j). .
. .
. 29 $8
; - 2 ) 11 $ °2 o *
As i semi arcs 1'08°42* log. a*c. . . . . . . 9 * 7 ^ 9 ^
To semi arc of 54°56' .............. 5154^4-
So •
§
■ difference of R.A. 56°40*............... ■ .96 I94
.To -
g
- second distance oj? 9 28p38’ .......... .. »79&$6
... 2
'Second distance' of $ ■
= r5 7 e
,l& ' —
lleridian distance of' 9 ' ?-8 $0
. .Arc of Direction ,.2 l® II
i
*
/
(Hote.— In this instance the. opposite,
pjace of "tile ivloon is taken, as if
.she were in.th,e IXth house, because'tlie planet is applying to the upper
...meridian.)
CHAPTER XXXII 177
ZODIACAL DIRECTIONS
Directions in the zodiac are of two kinds-
- ''direct" and "converse,"
When they are made in the order of the signs they are terms direct ;
and when contrary to the order of the signs, they are termed converse.
In the latter case the place of the moderator is supposed to be carried
in a retrograde manner by the rotation of the earth on its axis. These
zodiacal converse directions were formed shortly before birth.
TO DIRECT THE LIDHEAVEN IN THE ZODIAC.
RULE:— Find the right ascension of the place of the aspect or
parallel declination, and, if the direction be direct, deduct the R.A.
of the M.C. from it; if converse, take the R.A. of the aspect from that
of the 11,C,
TO DIRECT THE ASCENDANT IN THE ZODIAC.
HJLE:— Find the oblique ascension of the place of the aspect or
parallel declination, and, if the direction be direct, deduct the
oblique ascension of the ascendant (which is to be computed by adding
90° to the R.A. of the M,C.) from it. If the direction be converse,
take the oblique ascension of the aspect from that of the ascendant.
TO DIRECT THE SUN, MOON OR PLANST FORWARDS IN THE ZODIAC.
RULE 1.— Find the right ascension, the meridian distance, the
declination, and the semi arc of the place of the aspect.
2. Say: As the semi arc of the Sun is to the semi arc of the
aspect so is the meridiandistance of the Sun to his second distance.
5. The sum or difference of the primary and secondary distances
of the aspect will be the arc of direction, according to whether the
aspect falls on the same side of the meridian as the Sun is or the
other side.
'
T
O DIRECT THE SUN BY CONVERSE MOTION IN THE ZODIAC.
RULE 1.— Find the right ascension, meridian distance, declination,
and semi arc of the longitude in which the aspect falls.
2. Say: As the semi arc of the aspect is to the semi arc of the
Sun so is the meridian distance of the aspect to the second distance.
3. The sum or difference of the first and second distance of the
Sun will be the arc of direction.
TO DIRECT THE SUN, MOOR OR PLANET TO A PARALLEL OF DECLINATION BY
DIRECT MOTION.
RULE 1.— Find the longitude corresponding (in the Tables of Declin­
ation) to the declination of the celestial body to the parallel of which
the Sun is to be directed.
2. Find the right ascension, meridian distance, and semi arc of the
parallel, and
3. Say: As the semi arc of the Sun is to that of the parallel so
is his meridian distance, to the second distance.
4. The sum or difference of the first and second distances will
be the arc of direction.
178 ¡
TO DIRECT THE SUN. TO A PARALLEL QF D E C L i m i O N BY CONVERSE MOTT ON.
RULE.— 1. Find the longitude corresponding to the declination of
. th.e .body to ,,the pap^llel of which the Sun is to be directed.
,„ !
• 2. Find the.,'ri¿it ascension:,\mérldian distance, and soar/arc of
'
-
7,th'e parallel, and ' '
,3, Say: As t.Hq.sami arc of the' parallel is to that of'the Sun so
is the meridian distance of the parallel t'o'tlie second distance.
.
,
.
,
4
. The sum or difference of the first ¿nd second distances will
be the arc of direction. .
TO DIRECT ’
THE' LOOÍÍ OR PLANET''TO ANY ASPECT I N '
THE ZODIAC, BY DIRECT
...... . . MOTION, WITH LATITUDE . _
.
.
.
.[ .
. RULE* 1.--Find by reference to an ;Bphemeris for the-year of birth,
the latitude the'Moon or planet M M - h a v e when the aspect is formed.
2. Find the right ascension, declination, and semi arc correspond­
ing to the longitude and latitude..the Moon will have when she reaches
the aspect.
3. Say: As the semi arc of the Moon or planet is,to the semi arc
.of $he place of the aspect,.so' is the meridian distáñcfe 'of the Moon or
.planet".directed-to the second distance. ....J’? ''
4. The sum. or difference of the.
first-and'sicbnd'distances of the
■
'•
'aspect.
will'give.
the" arc of diréótioh.* ; ' ■ ' -
.TO DIRECT THE MOON. OR PLANET TO A PARALLEL OF DECLINATION BY DIRECT
' MOTION,iftTH LATITUDE
RULE 1.— Find, by' reference to an ephemeris; fór-the-year of birth,
the longitude and latitude the celestial body'
has when'it reaches the
parallel of declination to which it ,is directed. •
"■
2. Find the right' ascension, meridian' distance, and sániarc of the
parallel. .
3. Say:; As the. semi arc of the Moon is to the semi arc of the
parallel, so is the meridian distance of the Moon (or planet) to the
second distance.
.4, The sum or difference of the first and second distances -will
give tile arc of direction.
TO DIRECT THE MOON (OR PLANET') TO A. PARALLEL OF-DECLINATE-ON BY CONVERSE
.' ' MOTION
RULE'1.— Find the-longitude (without-reference to latitude), in
the ecliptic, corresponding to the declination of-the body to the
parallel of which the Moon (orvplanet ):
..is-ta.'he directed. ‘ ;
i
'
2. Find the right, ascension,, meridian distance, and semi arc
of the'longitude'obtained. ' ;
l
‘
3. Say: As the semi'arc- of the parallel is to that of the Moon
or planet, so is the meridian distance of the parallel to the second
distance. ' : :
’ 4.' The sum’or difference of the first •and second distances of the
Moon (or planet) M i l give the arc o t direction required.
Formerly the Sun and Moon were directed under their POLES,
• and' this method' is taught- in- SADKIEL'S GRAMMAR OF -ASTROLOGY, as well as
the method already given; of directing -those bodies by means of-their
179
semi arcs. The latter is the simpler method, and I advise the
student always to follow it. The "crepusculine" and "obscure”
arcs of Placidus and Nilson should be disregarded. The semi arc
method is the true motion in Nature. (See pages 34 and 35)""
The pole of the Sun, or Moon, is a certain elevation it has
from the meridian towards the horizon; hence, if one of them happens
to be exactly on the meridian it has no pole, and the arc of direction
must be found by right ascension, as already shown in the method given
for directing the mid-heaven in the zodiac. If the Sun or Koon be
exactly on the horizon, it will have the polar elevation of the horizon,
which is the latitude of the birthplace, and it must be directed by
oblique ascension in the same manner as that given for directing the
ascendant in the zodiac. Placidus,taught that the Sun is to be directed
by right ascension when within 2° of the meridian at birth; and when
within 3° of the ascendant (measured by oblique ascension) he advises
that the Sun be directed by oblique ascension; and when within 3° of
the western horizon, by oblique doscension, and I advise students
to follow his precept.
CHAPTER XXX 111
181
£XAMPU£a.OÇ RULES' POR COMPUTING ZÒDÌACAL. DIRECT IONS
'
■ ZODIACAL DIRECTIONS OF THE 1LDHEAVEN. V .
Example 1. Required tlxe are of the Mi&heaven directed to the
square of Saturn, in the zodiac, in the nativity of the late Prince
Consort (see page 47).
The square aspect of Saturn falls in Gemini 29°13'. Refer­
ence to tlie "Tables of Right Ascension" will show that the 29th degree
of Gemini (vdthout latitude) gives 88°55', and the 30th degree gives
90°00'.''Jfhen.' say: ."As 60’ of longitude are to 65’ of R.A., so are
15* (difference-of longitude) to 14' (difference of R.A,) Add 14' to
88°55’ and'writ$ down, the sum as the R.A. of the aspect, viz., 89°09’.
From the R.A.:/of the aspect subtract the R.A. of the Hidheaven, 64°28’,
and the arc of direction of L.C. square Saturn is found to be 24°41'.
(Editor’s Note: Excellent Tables of R.A., together with many other
valuable tables, vdll be’found in COMPLETE LETKOD OF PREDICTION by
Robert DeLuce, IdAFSA, price §3.00, postpaid §3.10. It may be ordered
from the National Astrological Library, 1520 28th St., SJD., Washington,
"D.C.)_,
Example 2. Required the arc of M.C* 45° Sun, .zod. in the same
nativity. This aspect falls in Cancer 17°06'.
R.A. of Cancer 17°6’................. 108°32'
R.A. of K.C*. ............... 64°28 ’
Arc of Direction........ .. 44°04’
ZODIACAL DIRECTIONS OF THE ASCMDANT
Example 1. Required the arc of direction of Ascendant opposition
Saturn, in the nativity of the late Prince Consort.
The'opposition falls
179°17’, the declination 0°19l
in Virgo 29°13', the R.A
, N. Then
of which is
Log. tangent of-50o18’.
. . . . . . . .
• LO.Ò805519
Log. tangent of 0°19’ •
. . . , . .plus 7.7424841
Log. sine of asc. diff. 0°23^ . . . . 7.8230360
- R.A. of Virgo 29°13’. .
' . .
Ascensional Difference. '
. 7 ■
. .
Oblique ascension, of opposition
Oblique ascension of Ascendant'’
.
"
■ Arc of Direction^-. . . . .
l .
. 179°17'
minus 0o25''
. . . 178°54'
minus 154°281
.
.
: ... ,24°26 ’ • .
Example 2. Required the arc of the Ascendant directed to the
parallel, of Saturn, in the same nativity.
The. declination of Saturn being 2°35.' the parallel:falls in
Libra 6°30’, the R.A. of which point is 185°58’.
. Thèn:— . .
182' -
» '.* . < '
i
To the R,A. o
.
f Lj.bra 6°30'.. .
.
.
.
. .
. . . , 185°58'
'Add the Ascen. Diff .
' ôf"''Satûiri. '. . . . 5°07 *
Oblique Ascension o|;paral-Lel ..........189°05*
Oblique Ascension of Ascendant. . minus 154°281
Arc of Direction............... . 34°37*
Example 3. Required the arcrof the Ascendant directed to the
quartile of Uranus,in the same nativity.
■
..This aspect falls.infTargo 20°30’; the R.A. of which point
is 171°07', the declination 3'°46! N.,..and the asc. diff. 4°33'. Then: —
• . v •
. \a ‘
. . From the R.A. of Yirgo 20p3 0 > ........ 171°17'
Subtract the .ascensional difference . . 4°55l
•Oblique Ascen.- of the aspect...........166°44'
Oblique Ascen. of the AsCendant . . . . 154°281
Arc of Direction . .
” ........ .
~ . 12°16*
Example 4. Required'the arc of the Ascendant directed to the
sesqui-quadrate .of S'at&hn in the zodiac, conversely, in the same
nativity. A. ‘ ■
■ ' This aspect’
'falls- in Deo 14°13', the R.A. of which is.^.36042',
the declination 16°35', and the asc. diff. 21°01'. Then:—
R.A. of Le014°13'. . . ...............' 13604 1^
Asc. diff......... .. minus 21°01'
Oblique Asc. of aspect. . . ........... ,115°40'
Oblique Asc. of Ascendant . . . . . . . . 154°281
Arc of Direction . . . . . . . . . 38°48’
THE SDN'S.DIRECT!OKS*IK THE ZODIAC.
Example 1. Required the arc of the Suij directed 'to the parallel
of Saturn in the nativity of the late Prince Consort,
.
. The parallel falls in Libra 6°30', the R.A. of which is 185°
58’, the meridian distance 121°30' , and the S.A. 86°53' . Then:--
As Sun's S.A. 103°12 (a.c.) (Prop,Log.), . . .9.75834
To S.A. of parallel 86°53’ . , ................. 31624
So Sun's meridian distance 89°37'........... ¿30288
To second distance of parallel 75°29’.......... 57746
Then -the meridian distance of the parallel, 121°30' minus
75°29' equ,al-§, 46°01!, the Arc of Direction.
! ‘' '.
,; 'THE KOOK'S DIRECTIONS IN THE ZODIAC.
Example 1. Required'the arc of the Loon directed to the quartile
of Venus, in the nativity of the late Prince Consort.
V
* , ‘ ’ 1 * ,k .
The aspect falls in Scorpio 20°12', on reaching this longitude the
Loon had 3°13' S, lat. The R.A. of 20°12' Scorpio with 3°13' S. lat.
is 2 2 6 ° 4 9 t h e meridian distance.;
'17°39', the declination 20°54' S., and
the S.A;-11?°22'. Then 5
183
As Moon’s 3.A., 107°33’ (a.c. ) ............. 9.77627
V o S.A. of aspect, 117°22’ ..................... 18573
So. Moon’s M.D. 34o50' ...................... .71328
To second distance of aspect, 38°01' .
* .
> . . .67528
Then,,'th.e second, distance of aspect 38°01’ minus 17°59’ (the
primary meridian distance) equals 20°22’, the Arc of Direction.2
Example 2. Required the.arc of the Moon directed to the opposi­
tion of Saturn, by converse motion, in the nativity of the late Prince
Consort.
The opposition falls in Virgo 29°13’, the R.A, of which is
179°17’, the M.D. 65°11’, the declination 0°19’,N., and'the S.A. 89°37’.
■As S.A. of aspect’89°37* (a.q.)............. 9.69712
To S.A. of Moon 107°32’. . ......................22373
So M.D. of aspect 65°11’ ............... .. . .44114
To '^econd distance of Moon 78°13’. . . . . . ..36199
Then, the second distance of Moon 78°13’ minus the.Moon's M.D.
34°50' equals 43°23', the arc of direction.^
Example 3. Required the arc of the Moon directed'to the parallel
of Mercury by converse motion in the same nativity;
This parallel falls in Virgo 28°30* (without latitude), the R.A.
of which is 178°38’, the M.D. 65°50’, and the S.A. 89°17'.
As S.A. of parallel 89°17’(a.c.). . . . . . 9.69550
To S.A. of Moon 107°32’. .. ............... ,£2or?3
So M.D. of parallel 65°50’. . . . . . . . . .43683
To second distance of Moon 79°29 ’. .35606
Then, 79°17’ minus 34°50’ (the Moon’s M.D.) equals 44°27’, the
Arc of Direction. . . .
HIE P L A N E © ’ DIRECTIONS IN THE ZODIAC
^Example 1. Required the arc of Saturn directed to the parallel
of the Sun, viithout latitude, in the nativity of the late Prince Consort.
This parallel falls in Aries 27°54’, and the R.A, of-this
point of the ecliptic is 25°55’, and its M.D. 38°33’.
Then:' .Saturn’s S.A,, 86°53’ . . . . . . . . .31634
a.c. 9.68366
To Sun’s S.A,, 103°11> :
. . . . . . . . . . . .24166
So is'SHtarn' & M.D. 64°12 ’ .......... .44774
To the second distance, 76°15’ .................37306
minus 58°55’
Arc-qf Direction h
-
. . •
. 38°42’
Example 2. Required the arc of-Saturn directed to' th,e pa-rallel
of the Sun, with latitude, in the same nativity.
When Saturn arrived at the parallel of the Sun’s declination,
184
(in M a y ■1822) his latitude -was-2?15" S. J
,
.
"
‘and-his longitude was Taurus
4°00'. This- gives the 3.A, as- 32o30'y;and the M.D. 31°58'.
As: Saturn's. S.A. 86-°53'Ca.c.). ............ 9.68366
To the Sun's S.A. 103oll'.‘. . . . . . .24166'
So. Saturn’s M.D. 64°12’. . . ........... .. .44774
To:the second distance 76°15'- . . . . . . .37306
minus 51°58*
APc. of Direction . . . . 44°17'
Example 3. . Required, the. arc of Saturn directed to the opposition
of the Möpii, in the same nativity.
The opposition falls in Taurus 2°29’, on reaching which longitude
Saturn had 2°i5* 3» lat» A.A. was 31°04’; M.D. 33°24’; declination
10°15f N.., and his S.A. ■102°34’. Then:— : "
■ -
As Saturn*s S.Ai 8ë°5Î3’ (a.c; ) t i . . . . 9.68366
To SiA. bf aspect 102^34’.'.................. .24427
So Saturn’s M.D. 64°12'................... .44774
To the second distance 75°47’. . . . . . .
- .3-7567
Then, the second distance 75°47’ minus 33°24’ equals 42°23* , the
Arc of Directiop.^
Example 4. Required the arc of liars quartile Moon in the zodiac,
with'out latitude, direct, in the same nativity.
The quartile of the Moon's place falls in Leo 2°3:
0'.-.' The-R.A. of
this longitude (sine lat.) is 124°47'; the declination is 19°37'; the
S.A. is 115°24'; and the M.D. is 60°19’.
As Mars' S.A. 120°59’ (a.c. ) ............... 9.82745
To S.A. of the aspect 115°24!
!
)................... 19307
So 'is Mars' II.D. .18°18' . .......... 99282
To the. second distance 17°27’.
' . . . . . . 1.01334
60°19’
Arc of'Direction . . . 42°52'
PO
O©TOTES
1. This arc coresponds exactly.with the arc for the father’s death—
24°25’.
2. This arc corresponds closely to the period of the Prince Consort's
engagement.
3. This arc falls in the fatal train.
4. This arc measures to' within one month of the period of death, arc—
42°18'. ' 1 ' ‘
{Editor's Note: Logarthimic tables of Sines, Cosines, Tangents,
Cotangents, and Ternary Proportional Logarithms hafe been prepared for
astrological students by the National Astrological Library, price
§>1.35 postpaid in the United States)
CHAPTER XXXIV
185
ON EQUATING ARCS OF DIRECTION
"A year for a day, and a day for a year.”
Various methods of equating arcs of direction have been sug­
gested and adopted by different authors. The Ptolemaic measure of
time is the most correct, viz.: one degree — one year of life, and
one-twelfth part of a degree (5’)— one month. The author adopted this
measure— at the suggestion of Zadkiel I— in the year 1062, and his
experience afforded by the calcuiation of several hundreds of nativi­
ties proves that it comes nearer to the truth than any other.
The method of Flacidus was this:— ’
’
Add the R.A. of the Sun
to the arc of direction; the sum will be the right ascension of that
part of the zodiac which when reached by the Sun (as shown in the
Ephemeris for the year of birth) the direction comes into force, and
the time must be equated by allowing a year for every day the Sun takes
in reaching that point, and a month for every two hours."
The method of Naibod was to allow ’
’
for every degree of arc,
on year, five days, and eight hours; and for every minute six days,
four hours.’
’
Maginus recommended (on the authority of Dr. Dee, who was a
good mathematician) that the arc of direction should be considered as
right ascension, and measured according to the Sun’s motion, in right
ascension, at the time of birth.
Some artists divide the arc by the Sun’s mean motion; others
by the rate of the Sun's motion on the day of birth.
It is no small recommendation in favour of the Ptolemaic
measure that Zadkiel I after having adopted the measure recommended by
Placidus (termed by V|llson as the "most rational"), and followed it for
many years, was compelled by the results of his great experience to dis­
card it in favour of the Ptolemaic question.
Example 1. His late Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh and of
Saxe^Coburg-Gotha was b o m at Windsor Castle on the sixth day of
August, 1844, at 7:50 a.m., Greenwich mean time.
h m s
Sidereal time at noon, August 6th . . . 8 56 52.62
Add time elapsed....................... 19 50
Add diff. mean and sidl. t i m e ........ 3 15.49
28 49 48.11
Subtract longitude Windsor Castle . . . __ 2 20.50
Subtracting the circl of 24 hours . . . 4 47 27.81
The Sidereal Time is found to be equivalent to 71°51'57M ,
which is the right ascension of the meridian at the moment of birth
stated in the official bulletin. The apparent obliquity of the eclip­
tic was then 23°27'31.4". The exact longitude of the upper meridian
may be readily found as follows:—
186- í
Logarithm sine of O.E. '. . . . . . . 9.9625337
,r cotangent R.A. 71°57’57". .,. . add 9.5152252
" cotangent 73016»39'M . . . . 9.4777589’
*
* f ■ 1
Subtracting 60°, for two signs of the zodiac, we have 13°16'
39” of Gemini to enter on the midheaven, or cusp of the tenth house.
•By'means of the rule "Oblique ascension given to find the ecliptic
longitude-;" given’in the. Appendix; to-this work, the ascendant is found
to be Virgb 17°13J.
-
-
-The oblique ascension of the ascendant is found by
adding'to:the R.A. of; the midh-eaVeh ninety degrees, thus 71°51’57" plus
■90°-
•
equals' 161°51 ’57»*. :
The horoscope was' given at page 101 of the first volume of
FUTURE. The longitudes of the Sun and plents were respectively; —
Sun -in -£eo 13°52,23,t. Moon in Taurus 15o52'10". Mercury in Leo 29°19'.
Venus- in Cancer 23°49', retrograde. Mars in Leo 13°20'. Jupiter in
Aries 3°41', retrograde. Saturn in Aquarius 3°13', retrograde. Uranus
in Aries 6°01' , retrograde. Neptune .in Aquarius 22°38' , retrograde.
The Moon was hyleg-, and'she was in quadrature with both the Sun and
Mars, and'-in'mundane sextile with Venus. The Sun was only half-a-degree
past conjunction with Mars. This rendered the Royal duke liable to
feverish- ailments, 'and-.his first attack of fever took place in February,
1863, arc'I8°30', under the reparation of the primary;direction of Moon
rapt parallel Mars 17°50', and Sun rapt parallel Moon :
18°20'.
: -In December, 1862, Prince-Alfred .was- elected King of Greece,
but he declined the honour'of becoming the-monarch of that country, on
the-advice of his illustrious parents and.the British Government.
This honour was proffered under the■influence in.the nativity of the
second son of oueen Victoria, of Ascendant parallel Jupiter, zodiac,
18°31'. '
Early in the year 1868, the young prince visited Australia,
and on March 12th a dastardly Fenian attempted to kill him by shooting
him in the back. Zadkiel I foresaw the danger and foretold that "the
12th of March (1868) is evi^- for a great personage." This narrow es­
cape of death at the hands of an assassin-.was incurred under the
primary directions of M.C. parallel Mars, zodiac, conversely, 23°29',
and Moon parallel Saturn, mundo, converse 23°46’. The arc for this
dangerous experience is 23°36'. It is noteworthy that in the nativity
the Sun and Mars were together in the .sign Leo, which from time immem­
orial has been held by astrologers tq rule the back of the body and the
spine.^ At the 23d Solar rebolution the Sun vías in quartile and the
Moon was conjunction with Saturn, which malefic planet was in opposi­
tion to the place -of the Moon at .birth.
'‘ •J
. ji .
: On January 23, 1874, the Royal Duke v/as married at St. Peter­
sburg, to the Grand Duchess Marie, daughter of the.Tsar Alexander II;
the arc for the happy event 29°28', and the arc of direction of Mid­
heaven conjunction Moon, mundo, convorsely, is 29°09’, and that of
Moon sextile-Sun, zodiac., is 29°47'.^. If we subtract 0°16', the Sun's
sem.i-diamet.er, from .this arc we. shall"bring it up, for first contact,
closely-to the arc. qf,.marriage, thus 29°4-7' minus 0°16;
t‘eq&al'S 29°31'.
The second'attack’
of" fever vías suffered in-'April 1889. The
Prince was stricken with Malt eh'e remittent fever— thé'óvil planet
1821/
¿■Saturn then .being in transit over tbe placés of the Sun and Lars in
his nativity; and, moreover, Saturn was stationary in Lço, 13°25' on
the 14th day of that month. The following primary direction was then
in force: ■ Ascendant quartile Loon, zodiac, conversely* 44°35', the
■arc for the illness' being 44°41'.
' ‘ i
' - The author warned the. Prince of this attack of fever, as
-follows: "April, 1889. Our Sailor Prince will be'troubled by Saturn's
stationary position so near the places of the Sun and Lars at his birth;
he will do well to avoid staying in unhealthy places where fever lurks."3
Certain Press-scribes, anxious to discredit astrology-; endeavoured to
belittle this warning by. saying that ".England has more than one S.'ailor
Prince," but this futile boomerang of theirs only recoiled to themselves,
for, in their ignorance, the forgot that only one, and;that one -Prince
Alfred, had both the Sun and Mars in the fourteenth degree of the sign
Leo at his birth, and that the Sun could only be in that degree on the
6th day of August, 1844, and not at the birth of any other Sailor Prince
of England.
A train of evil directions brought on a malignant affection
of the larynx, at the root of the tongue, and the Royal Duke succumbed
to a sudden Seizure with failure of the heart, on July 30, 1900, at 56
years of age dll but eight days. The arc (1°— 1 year of life) measures
55°59'. The following directions measure•closely thereto: Loon quartile
Uranus zodiac, 55045', Loon parallel Uranus, zodiac,' conversely, 55°49'.
It is remarkable that the Asselli are close bo the Midheaven by
primary direction: M.C. conjunct North Asellus, in the zodiac, 55°51*.
The Loon, being hylëg .and in Taurus, the sign ruling the
throat, add afflicted by Lars'and the Sun, at birth, accounts for the
fatal illness, and Uranus being-the afflicting planet, by direction,
accounts for the suddenness' of-the demise.^ ■
The late King Edward VII,-was born at 10:48 a„m., November
9,- 1841, at':
-Buckingham Palce, London. At that moment of Greenwich'
mean time and at the bifthplace, the sidereal time was 14^-1'8.76"—
210o17'll" in arc of T.A. This gives Scorpio 2°29' on the Lidheaven,
and Sagittarius 27042'45" ascending. The geocentric latitude of the
birthplace is 51°18*36" N . , and the longitude is W . , of the Royal
Observatory, Greenwich.', The ascending degree- is computed for this lat­
itude, and the semi-arcs-of the celestial bodies also.
The horoscope of. King Edward was East by Sàdkiel I.-within
three hours of the time of birth being officially stated, and was pub­
lished in the second -edition of his Almanac for 1842.- The leairned
editor remarked'that as Lars was in the first house and in mundane
' quartile with the Sun (h-yleg):— ' ; :
-
"We cannot-'hope -that the child's constitution will..'.be free
from liability, to feverish complaints. This excepted,, the1
-hyieg (Sol)
is strong, having"the mundane parallel of: Venus, and we doubt not this
scion of our Royal, House may live to sway the sceptre of' this realm.
"The Loon in good aspect (sextile) with Lercury gives him a
shrewd and clever turn of mind with good natural talents, and he has
Jupiter so strong that he will become a mild and benevolent sovereign,
188'-
NOVEMBER 9,
10:48 A.
SPECULUM
841
» Déclin. R,. A.i M. D.
o 16c
)
54'105”S 224°06’04" 14°08''53"
D 4°11'•S 3 36 '38 S 177 49 15 32 27 56
$ 1 47 S 22 15 39 S 239 12 45 28 55 34
? 1 42 N 5 57 46 S 198 23 24 11 53 47
c
f 1 33 S 24 09 38 S 286 43 17 103 33 54
% 0 15 N 22 57 56 S 260 43 55 50 26 44
n 0 44 N 22 43 56 S 270 10 17 120 06 54
is 0 47 S 4 26 44 S 351 41 17 38 35 54
V 0 9 S 16 15 S 316 51 ■
73 26
though fina and positive in
opinion.”
Again, in Zadkiel's
Legacy (1842) it was stated
"the Prince of Wales shall
be called 'The Wise King.*
The potent position of Jup­
iter renders him liberal,
frank, brave, benevolent, and
calculated for government;
fond of sport and exercise;
amiable, gracious, 'noble and
brilliant. He will sway the
sceptre of this realm in
moderation and justice-
- a
gracious and merciful
sovereign.”
This was a very true
forecast of the talents, tact
combined with firmness,
graciousness, benevolence,
of his Majesty; and of that
wisdom displayed in his un­
ceasing efforts to secure
peace to his Bnpire, and his
wonderful faculty for saying
the right thing at
the right moment; of
his high courage and
keen zest for sport.
S. A.
67°42’13”
85 28 52
59 15 44
82 30 22
124 03 53
58 03 10
121 32 37
95 34 15
111 21
King Edward VII
incurred a liability
to accidents from
the proximity of
Saturn to the ascend­
ant (only 1°26' be­
low the eastern hori­
zon, measured by
oblique ascension), but his Majesty escaped serious injury thereby in
most instances, because the benefic-planet Jupiter was but 7°36'' above
the ascendant, and strong in his chief dignity the sign Sagittarius.
Very early in life he had a narrow escape of being shot; he rolled
down the almost perpendicular side of a mountain, owing to a-slip of
his foot, and escaped with a few severe bruises; he came very- hear to
being crushed by the fall of ah enormous chandelier, when at Heidel­
berg, in September 1861; he fell-into deep water, when touring in
Palestine; he nearly fell into the flames, through a floor giving x
\
r
a
y
,
while helping"-firanen to extinguish the fire-at. Marlborough House, in
July 1865; he fractured the patella of one knee by slipping oa '
a
staircase in July'1908; he had a fortunate escape from ..assassination
in Belgium, in April 1900, and injured a foot, while out shooting, in
Novanber 1905. • *
189 •
When-Mars arrived,^ at tile ascendant, by primary direction—
Asc. con-j. Mars '¿undo-20°3C)r,
'‘
preceded by M.'C. par, Uranus zodiac,
conversely 19°58* — the King "suffered the sad bereavement by the death
of his talented and affectionate father., i;
h;December 1861, in which
fatal month a lunar eclipse took place whereat Marb was exactly in
transit over the place of the Sun at his •Majesty''’s birth. Under this
'martial direction, he went for his tour iri 'the Sast. •
. His Majesty’s marriage .
‘
with the charming-Princess Alexandra
‘
of Denmark j
.
‘took .place March 10, 1863, under the happy influence of
Moon sextile Venus,- zodiac, ’
'conversely. 21^02'* and. Vends; parallel Moon,
zodiac , conversely 2 l ° 5 0 ' b y primary direction. ’ . - .' ■ ■
;
->
As the Sun arrived at•the parallel declination of Saturn, by
primary directiohj. his- Majesty was' attacked with enteric fever, , which
'so nearly -proved fatal in December 1871. The arc for the crisis of
this■dangerous attack is 30°04', That of Sun parallel Saturn, zodiac,
first, contact is 29°42,Y ’ It is computed an. the. following manner: —
Saturn:•'■s'declination '22°43j56.3*¿*V16*IQ* 6* (Sun’s semi-diameter) =
22°'27-’
-45,7,
,v which thé Sup's limit attains on. reaching longitude
Sagittarius 13°40'36". -,lhé H.A, is 252°17’38", and meridian distance
42°0O,37". The second distance of the'Sun (as computed by the rule
already given) is ^SlS'AA", which is - t o 'be subtracted from 42°00127",
and the quotient 'is ‘
the arc of Sun parallel Saturn, first contact,
29°41'43". " V . " ' . .
The direction of the Sun's centre t
.
o:
the parallel of Saturn
in the zodiac measures 32°22'16” ,
' and its operation coincided .with his
Majesty's narrow escape, in a.collision .of his yacht,.in 1873 (attended
by M.C. conjunct Moon mundo, conversely, 32°28'). ; ’
At the•
King*s •
30th. Solar revolution,' the configurations of
tho Moon pre-signlfied-illness, and .Zadkiel I directed attention to
this pre-signification l h ;
h‘
is Almanac for 18.71, thus: —
'"On the 9th of November 1871, the.Moon.is afflicted by a square
of Mars and'Saturn,'which bespeaks serious losses and troubles for all
persons b o m that day, be they prince or peasant."
The'author ,
■in an annual (1871) viiich he then edited, wrote; —
'
‘
At the Solar eclipse of December 22, 1870, Saturn is in transit
over his own-place at birth' of H.H.K. the Prince of Vales. This
transit-taken into-Consideration with- the fact.
that the eclipse falls in
the place of Saturn at:birth,-and in. square to the Moon’s place, indi-
'cates trouble and''ill-health-.— further thap this we-may .not.-say but
'the-'wise' wiil“uhde-rs-tahdto .
This was written in July 1870, sixteen months before the
serious'illness began '(November; 187.1)". The effect Of the Solar eclipse
of December- 22, 1870, was retarded until the primary direction'of Sun
par. Saturn came into^operation;,. when the combination of these evil
influences- very;nearly ended.the valuable life of the Prince of Vales.
The eclipse -lasted for- four hoiirs. and twenty-eight minutes, .and its
rule,, therefore-, continued ..for/hearly four years and a half. It was
total,--and-was id sable as- S'partial ..eclipse in the United Kingdom.
190
In, the autumn of 1876, hie Majesty went to India, and in
December ‘
of.’
that' 'wittf’an accident there,_and was on one
occasion1in some dàtigèr' ffom the charge of a ti,gerV 'As both Lars and
Saturn W r ê in Ca'pricqrnus, and in' the ascendant', the author wrote (in
July 1875, when the visit to India was announced bÿ the. Prime Minister,
in thé House of Coimibhs'); "But for the generally fortunat e'character
of the directional influences operating during the period of his Noyai
Highness1 projected visit to India, one would he apprehensive for his
personal safety in that country. Care will have, to be taken to avoid
accidents" etc.^ The primary directions then operating were Asc. 45°
Mars, zodiac, conversely, 34°5'2', Sun parallel Jupiter, zodiac',\35°07',
Sun squartile Moon,, mundp 35°09,> and Sun sextile Venus, zodiac, 35°53'.
In July 1898, his Majesty's accident, to his knee took place
under the primary'direction'of Asc. parallel Neptune, zodiac , conv.
56°45', closely followed by Asc. conjunction Uranus'.'mundo 56°58'.
Sipido's abominable attempt to assassinate his Majesty at the
railway, station at Brussels on April 4, 19Ç0 (when Saturn, was in Capri-
c o m u s 4°58' the sign ruling Brussels), was,.'Providentially, unsuccess-
far. The arc for this, danger is 5fe°24’, an,d'that for the death of
Prince Leopold is 58°43'. ’
The primary directions then operating in
the. royal nativity'were':'— Sun 135° Saturn, .^aotliac,. conversely 58°18 *,
Asc. sesqui-quadrate Mercury, mundo, 5&033''./'Sun ,
opposition. Neptune,
zodiac, conv.'58°40'. His Majesty'S ’
health was not'good:.,at the time.
In 1901, at the age of 59 years and two months (arc— 59°12')
on the danise of bis beloved mother, Queen Victoria, the Prince of
Wales acceded to the throne,, under the following train of primary
directions:
Midheaven quartile Moon, zodiac. . . . 59°06'
Sun parallel Sun, zodiac, conversely . 59°12’
Midheaven sextile Sun, muiido . . . . . 5901
7
.'
Ascendant opposition Moon, zodiac. . .' 59°29'
Moon trine Uranus, mundo, converse . . 59°41'
Ascendant quartile Saturn, zodiac. . . 59°47'
M.C. conjunction Saturn, zodiac. . . . 59°53’
M.C. conjunction Saturn, mundo . . . . 59°53'
Sun rapt parallel Neptune. . . . . . . 60°01'
Sun parallel Jupiter, zodiac . . . . .' 60°03'
The directions of Saturn to the Midheaveh, in the zodiac ¿and
in the‘
world, account for the accession to the throne in à time of war
and national trouble. 'As, however, the Sun, lay by direction, in the
parallel of Jupiter, an honourable peace in South Africa was soon con­
cluded^ and a brilliant, although too short 'a'reign of nine years and
four months followed.
The effect of the fourth direction in the. preceding list,
namely the Opposition of the Moon to the ascendant,'irMthe zodiac,
59°29'--May 1901, .was also manifest in the Very nárrow escape his
Majesty .had of a dangerous accident, on May 22, 19C1, by the fall of
.the blast .of the yacht Shamrock II, due to a sudden gust of wind. Had
'the snapping of themast happened ten seconds later, the'.'boom'would hate
been .fight, aboard, and would have fallen oh the deck., ..At the .time of
191
■the-accident the King wasi,standing in the companion-way.^ This dir-
'action is said to presignify "misfortunes at sea," as was stated in
■the-"Grammar'of Astrology" (1840) , and,,at p. 235 of the first volume
of "The Text-Book of Astrology.,." firs^ edition' (1879).
On Tune 14, 1902, his Lajest felt indisposed, but insisted
that the troops at Aldershot should*"pot .be disappointed of his presence,
and therefore travelled thither to attend the tattoo that evening,
which unfortunately was very rainy. .After dinner the King began to
suffer much pain. On the.16th his physicians advised his return to
-'■Windsor.. On the 19th his condition improved, and continued'to Tune
23d, when his Lajesty proceeded from Windsor to London'; but that even­
ing fever returned, and the swelling in the right iliac fossa rapidly
increased. The King received the .information that a purulent inflamma­
tion, had occurred with his .usual .courage and equ.ahimiiy, and expressed
the .greatest distress that his< people.'should be disappointed, for the
coronation would, necessarily,-have .
.
"
t
o
.be postponed. On Tune'24th Sir
F. Treves perfoimed the operation, for appendicitis. A rapid recovery
followed,- after the 26th.. The Coronation of 'the King and Qqeen' took
place at Westminster Abbey on August 9th, This critical and dangerous
illness was due, astrplogically. speaking.,'to the primary direction of
Sun parallel Saturn, first contact, 59°361, followed by Asc,’135° Sun,
zodiac 60°32’. The arc for the illness and operation is 60°3’
6V.
- '
• . It has already ..been shown, that the .
attack of typhoid fever in
Decanber 1871¿.was due to the first contact (of the Sun’s limb) of Sun
parallel .
Saturn .in-Sagittarius 13°4Q'36". .,tfhen the Sun again reached
the parallel of Saturn, last contact in Capricorn 16°19'24", the King's
life-1
was'soon ¡after, again endangered, and this time by appendicitis.®
At birth the Sun was in Scorpio 16°54'18" in zodiacal sextile and mun­
dane quartile with Lars, and thereby takes the. nature of the ruddy
planet; and this accounts for the dangerous‘purulent inflammation
necessitating the surgical-operation. The Sun (hyleg) lay in the para­
llel of Saturn’s declination, by direction from Tune 19011 to Tune 1904,
Moreover, another evil direction interposed to increase the suffering
and danger .to life, namely, that of Midheaven conjunction Regulus,
mundo, conversely (which is the meridian distance of that wholly martial
star at birth). 60o18'. At the. King's 60th Solar rebolution the Loon
was. in Scorpio. 2 45', exactly on the midheaven of the nativity; and on
April 22, 1902, she was totally eclipsed in Scorpio 1°42'. At the
60th lunar progress (?:16 a.ra. September 16, 1846) the Sun was within
two degrees of exact conjunction with Lars in Virgo (in the eighth
house), in opposition to the place of Uranus at birth, and in parallel
declination with both Mars and Uranus.
• The King's grandson,# now .the Prince of ’
Tales, had the Sun in
conjunction with both Mercury and Neptune at his eighth Solar revolution,
Tune 23, .1902.- Accordingly the author wrote (in Tuly 1901) that; "The
'23d of Tune .brings a crisis"— — and .his grandfather became alanningly ill
on that day.-; ■
The passing of King Edward VEI took.
place.'at 11:45 p.m. of
Lay 6, "1910,. to the intense grief and consternatipiitof his loyal subjects
throughout the British Empire. His Majesty left England for Paris at
9:30 p.m. Larch 6, 1910, and contracted a chill en route. The arrival
at Biarritz, on the 9th, was soon followed by a state of health which
1
9
.
2
.
-
caused anxiety to his.physicians— "the brinchitic attack, raised temp­
erature,' accelerated pulse and respirations." This attack lasted ten
days".’
. The,train of adverse primary, directions falling due in his
Majesty’s sixty;-ninth year gave'rise to’serious apprehension, and led
the author*to issue this solemn warning:---
"If the King’s.physicians would pay attention to astrological
science, they would not advise his Majesty to travel abroad either
this spring,, or. summer, in view of the first, fourth and seventh of
the primary directions operating in this year (1910), and the meri­
dional (proximate) position of Saturn at the 68tn Solar revolution. ^
May they (the favourable influences) entirely neutralise the unfavour­
able, arcs!"
Alas! the King’s physicians permitted, if they did not advise,
his Majesty to travel abroad at the beginning of March 1910, and to re­
turn to this country on April 27th. The first direction was Mercury
parallel Sun, zodiac, conversely 68°22'— 'March 1910. The fourth was
Moon parallel Mars, miindo, conversely, 68°38' ; the seventh was Moon
quartile Uranus, zodiac, cum lat. 68°53*. The sun being hyleg the
first direction was a serious one for health; the fourth was one cal­
culated to excite inflammation, threaten failure of the heart, and to
render travelling afar very risky, just as-the first would.
During,his last illness, his Majesty showed as indomitable a
courage as on previous occasions. Although he had not shaken off the
depressing effects of his dangerous attack of bronchitis at Biarritz,
which was so near being fatal, he faced the risk of returning to London
and Sandringham ere the cold winds of an English spring had subsided,
making a hurried and exhausting journey without breaking it, anxious as
to the Constitutional crisis then existing, and working to the last for
the good of his subjects.
FOOTNOTES.
1. Lord Mayor, Viceroy of India, who was assassinated by being stabbed
in the back also had.Mars in Leo at his birth, and in opposition with
the Moon, He was born February 21st, 1822, and died on-February 8, 1872
2. This direction is computed in R.A., as it falls within one degree
of the Midheaven of the Frince’s nativity. Thus: R.A. of Gemini 13°52'
72°30'-42°43’, the Moon's R.A. = 29°47' the arc of direction.
3. Vide Zadkiel's Almanac for 1889, page 11.
4. In Zadkiel's Almanac for 1900, p.23, iyill.be found the following
forecast: "Our Royal Family will be involved in some grief, in tire first
half of July, we regret to foresee."
5. Vide Zadkiel’s Almanac for 1876, pp. 50, 51.-
6. Peace was signed at 10:30 p.m., May.,.
3
1
.
, 1902, at Pretoria.
7. Vide Star Lore, June 1901,-and December: 1902,
8. The student can readily compute this primary direction as follows:-
As Seun’s S.A. is to the 3.A, of the parallel 57°59'23" so is the Sun's
M.D. to his second distance 12°07'05", which subtracted from the M.D»
of the .parallel, 71°43’15" ,
-
?
= 59°36'11" the arc. of direction.
9; ■ Vide .'Zadkiel’s .'Almanac, 1902, p. 21. , ■
10; -Vide'Zadkiel's Almanac for 1910, p. 79,and for 1911,.pp. 81-84.
193
CHAPTER XXXV
. ON RECT} FY tNG A NAT IV ITY„, ; ,Y
linen the .
.
t
i
i
u
e of birth Is only known approximately, no observ­
ation of it having been recorded,, an attempt to determine the true
moment of birth can only be made by means of the Pipcidian system. An
error of four'minutes-will; throw out-the primary directions of the
Ascendant and-Midheaven-a..whole, year, and mundane parallels two years,
more or -less... 'An arror of-eight minutes,:.or -more, will accelerate or
retard the directions of. "the. Sun or Moon,- according t
o
.
' whether the
error'-i-s later or sooner than the-true., moment, of..birth, by weeks .or
months, • • ■
; .
. ’ "
■
Before, railways were made, -local time was.lcept in all .towns
-remote-from,-London, in England' and.-Tales and Scotland. Since the middle
■of-the:-'nineteenth century "railway time"— rt.hat.is to say, .Greenwich
mean- ti-me---has. been kept throughout, the IJn.ited Kingdom,' except .
.
i
n
Ireland, where Dublin ,-time is kept. Por every degree of longitude west
of Greenwich "railway;
time" is four minutés in advance-of local mean (or
■clock) time; and for. every degree ,-eaqrb, it is four..minutes later. Be­
fore the railway era ,-time was .kept in -many.,country places by means of
the sun-dial. It is, therefore, important to. learn whether the "stated
time of birth, in a. country place, -
i
s local or railway time. Abroad,
standard time is kept, which differs considerably from local time in
places- remote -from the. standard in each country. The'following Stand­
ard times, referred to the Meridian of Greemvich, have been adopted for
railway and other purposes:.— ......
h. h.
Mid-Europe. . . . . 1 East . New South ’
Tales. East
East Europe . . . . •
2 East Queensland . . . East
India . . . . . . East Tasmania . . .■. .East
B u r m a .......... . 6£ East New Zealand. . » . V .Ili East
Hong Kong . . . . , 8 East AMERICA ■
» •1• » •
' o . 9 East Atlantic-
.
- . . . ■ • • » . Nest
South Afrioa. . v .
. 2 East E a s t e r n . ' . . . • » • .
• 5 West
Nest Australia, . . 8 East Mountain . . . . . .... . 7 TJest
South Australia . .
.
.9^- East Central. . . . . Nest
Victoria........ .10 East Pacific........ «
- • • -»
. .8 TJest
.Before computing the nativity the student should carefully
ascertain whether the time of birth furnished is- standard (or railway)
time., as shown by the clock or watch by which, it was. noted. Paris time
was-synchronised with Greenwich time on March 10, l9ll .
.
.
An additional source of error.-frequently arises from the ex­
citement in-the household i/dierein the...birth .takes place. Indeed, ex­
cept when-the first act of respiration, or first cry of the .infant is
noted by the’
doctor',: or -for. "astrological.
purposes, a guess is usually
made some, minutes after $he; event as■
-
t-
e the.-.nearest minute, which may
differ from five to ten mihutes from the. true moment. .
.
.
' .
;
.
• --..When-the exact-.moment has been -co-rrectiy observed and recorded,
the student vail"' find the arcs- of primary./direction, equated by the
Ptolemaic method.» (-if = 1 year- of, life) will approximate.very closely to
194
the periods of important events in the life of the owner of the horo­
scope to be computed, 'especially'in;
'the -case, of directions of the
angles to the conjunction, opposition, trine, and quantile of Lars. As
.already stated, parallels, whether mundane or zodiacal usually begin
to .operate some weeks in advance; and so do the mutual directions of
the Sun and Moon, in the zodiac. ’• : ■.
A most misleading and unwarrantable assertion was- made..about
thirty-two years ago, by the'writer of an astrological primér,.-that "the
exact moment of ’
birth (always so difficult to get at) is of no vital
importance whatever."' The same writer also asserted that astrology does
not consist of the casting of horoscopes "and the working out of direc­
tions, but the judgment of the horoscope and the effects of directions.'1
.He also deprecated mathematics as applied to astrological calculations,
and exalted the judgment of persons of such imperfect education that
they cannot compute horoscopes or planets' places nearer than to degrees!
He would be a sorry spécimen of an astrologer- who cannot .compute-horo­
scopes, planets' places, and primary directions correctly. .
. . . ' ! f
Several methods have been propounded for rectifying approximate
.times of birth. 'The only true process is by computing :
arcs;of.primary
direction for past'events o f ■importance-
- such' as serious accidents,
.dangerous illness,'death'of'father tor mother, emigration, etc..— and
comparing the arcè of such1directions a's may fall, due near the periods
of such events and haimonisë with the nàtufe of.them. For this purpose
'the speculum must first be computed. I f a direction of the ascendant
or midheaven, satisfactory as to'its nature corresponding' to that of the
selected event, is found to measure within-a degree, more or. less, of
the arc for such event, it may be taken as the argument and a tentative
rectification made by means of it. Thus if- it differs one degree of arc
.
late, add 'four' minut es "t
o the estimated •time- of birth;, if.one degree too
early,
' subtract Tohr minutes^, and its- arc will .then be found to measure
the same as that' of the event. . . .
It is usually found that directions of Lars .afford the most
reliable'means' of rectifying' an uncertain estimate, of .the birth moment;
especially in the case of an acute fever,, or an .accident causing-much
loss of blood, or necessitating a surgical operation,- or. the sudden
death 'of a parent.' . . .
The date of marriage, if already entered upon, will sometimes
be useful to this end, especially in the case of a real love-match, of
.happy and advantageous nature; in such case a direction of Venus may
fall a little earlier than the arc of 'marriage, .thereby accounting for
the fascination leading up' to the engagement-and .wedding.
When rectification cannot be made by means of directions of
the ascendant or mi'dheaven, those of the Sun and Loon, in. the zodiac and
in the world, may enable it to' be effected. In.Such case the following
rules, given by Oxley and Zadkiél'I (in the first half.of the last
centuny) must be"followed: — ’ -
Rule 1.— Reduce the meridian distance of Sun or Loon, whichever
.is directed, into-’
-minutes of a degree,- and call.-'it.:the first position;
then add to this meridian distance one degree,,.r.eddcipg i£ also■to
minutes, and call it the second position, --Thên,;-opposite.'.the second
position., place the error of the-;arc of direction-,-multiply them to-
. gether, and call .the -amount A.- Vork the same direction, with.,the
. altered meridian distance (taking care to correct; by one degree the
.meridian distance of the planet employed also)
,
;
. find the error .of the
arc of direction and place it opposite the.first.-position, Multiply
•them together, and. call-the amount- B. t .
. i ■
Rule 2.-— If. both errors be greater or; -less .than the arc of the
event, find the difference, between the errors, •make, it a. di.vi-sor; find
also the difference between A and;B, and make it a,.dividend;
.the quotient
will be the true meridian distance of the Sun or.-Moon at the moment of
birth, the difference between which and the amount of the meridian dis­
tance which was,made the first position, is the error of the R.A. of the
Midheaven at the estimate^moment.of birth..
Rule 3.— But ,
i
f
-
,one be. greater-and -the other less than the; arc of
the event, take the sum of the erros for a divisor, and the sum of A and
B for the dividend; and the quotient will give the true meridian distance
as before stated. . •
- .
The rectification having been effected, the horoscope,; and the
speculum must be re-calculated to the corrected R.A. of the Midheaven,
and the directions employed in the process of rectification must be re­
calculated: also; and all directions for future years must be computed to
the rectified R.A. of M.C.
The Nativity of H.R.H. the. Late. Prince Consort (p.47) requires
a rectification of three minutes and twenty-four seconds later than the
hour (6:00 a.m. ) given in his biography,.to bring up the arcs of direc­
tion more closely to the following chief events of his lamentably short
life of forty-two years:-—
R.A, of M.C. = 64°28*18”
Events Directions
Death of mother, Aug.30,.1831 -
Accident to a knee, Doc,'1837
Engagement,0ct.l5,1839— 20°08’
Marriage, Feb .10,1840— 20°28'
Death of father, Jen. 29, 1844-
24°25' -
Died, Dec.14, 1861— 42°18''
- Ascendant □ $ zodiac 12°16’
M.C, d' cfmundo, 18°18' -
Asc.Q c
f mundo, 18°18’
¡
) □ 9 zodiac, :
dir. 20°22’
- D rapt p arallel 21014’
M.C«^ © mundo, dir. 20°50f
Asc.«f ^ zodiac, dir. 24°26:'
~ M.C.D zodiac, dir. 24°41’
O quadra-sextile mundo CQnv.42017T
]) - rapt •p arallel 9 42°21 '
. î
j Dzodiac, dir; 420.23,
d-Q Bzodiacdir.: 42°52’
Had the malefic, Mars, B.atum, and Uranus not been in angles
and afflicting Mercury in -tile as.c.endant, and- had not Mars been elevated
above-the Sun, Moon, •and tbe benefiC" planets at the moment of birth, and
had the Sun (hyleg) been supported by Jupiter and Venus, the Prince
Consort would, probably, not have, succumbed, to the fever which attacked
him in December-1861, in his fort^-third year., ¡
. :
.That a dangerous crisis was’
,about, to-take place in .the forty-
196-
third, year, was foreseen, by Zadkiel X, jw
h
o
.
, in a girded ..pawner, ex­
pressed his anxiety for the health of the Princeat"pages"4l and 45 of
his Almanac for 1861. Commenting on the nineteenth Solar'revolution of
the heir-apparent, Zadkiel said: i
,
9 evil for the father of the
Prince of Vales." .Again, in his judgment-on the lunation nearest the
Vernal Ingress of 1861, the following remark was made: "The stationary
position of Saturn in the third degree of Virgo (the degree held by
the Sun at birth) following upon this..
lunation (whereat Saturn was in
the ascendant as at the vernal ingress) will be very evil fcr all
persons bom- on or near the 26th of August; among the sufferers I regret
to see th.e worthy Prince Consort of these realms."
Alderman Humphrey, of London, in announcing from the magist­
erial bench the demise' of the Prince Consort, mentioned, as a remarkable
fact, that Zadkiel (I) had expressed in his almanac great'anxiety as to
the state of His Royal Highness* health in the year 1861., This announce­
ment caused a
' great sensation, and, as a matter of course,.the..worthy
alderman as well as.Zadkiel, was roundly abused in the'newspapers the
following day, with one or two honourable exceptions. The writers of
the disgraceful abuse looked rather foolish when it soon afterwards
transpired that the,Prince Consort had taken some little interest in
scientific astrology,.
.Well may Tennyson have written of the talented Prince as:—
"'Tearing the white flower of a'blameless life
Before a thousand peering littlenesses."
It may be mentioned that' the Prince Consort, by falling through
the ice when skating, caused Qpeen Victoria some alarm, under the oper­
ation, in his nativity, of a Neptune primary direction. ,
NATIVITY. OP HIS MAJESTY KING GEORGE V.
In the year 1868, the nativity of Prince'George of Wales,
together with that of his elder brother, the late Prince Albert Victor
of TJales, was presented by the author in ah annual which he wrote (from
1868 to 1871 inclusive) 'in 1867. The following judgment was. appended
to the diagram:—
The regal sign Aries occupies the eastern horizon,- and Mars,
the ruling: planet of the’ascending sign, is in Leo, also a regal sign.
The benefic Jupiter, .strongly posited in his own' sign Sagittarius, is
within six degrees of the upper meridian. Venus is in her chief dignity
Taurus, and in the ascendant. Saturn is in the seventh house in his
exaltation (Libra). So that in this truly royal nativity we find three
planets .dignified, the glorious Jupiter close to the midheaven, the Sun
and Moon nearly in mutual trine aspect, a royal sign ascending, and Mars
and Jupiter in royal signs. Proni these positions we may conclude and
predict ..that this Prince .will, if lie live, become King of England under
the;,title George V. .
.
Let us now consider the question of vitality, The Moon is
hyleg, being within five.degrees of the western horizon (cadent, by
oblique descension 4°13* )
, within three degrees of the quartile of Uranus
applying to sectile. with Mars, •.and. in parallel of declination with
197
Neptune (The Noon also is in mundane trine with the Sun, arc 2°25' )
There is nothing to indicate either an early death or a delicate con­
stitution. The Prince will suffer occasionally'- from cough or chest
affection, but these may be easily remedied, under God's blessing, by
skilful treatment; and may be also troubled with headache at times. If
Neptune have benefic influence, as is supposed (Later experience shows
•chat the influence of Neptune is not benefic), his exact parallel of
declination with the Moon should strengthen the physical constitution.
The Moon .and Mercury are both "disposed” of by Venus. Venus
being dignified, according to Claudius Ptolemy, "renders the mind and
disposition benignant, good, copious in wit, fond of dancing, abhorring
wickedness, delighting in the arts, affectionate, refined in taste,
easily reconciled, tractable, and entirely amiable." Venus in par. dec.
Mercury will render the Prince "philosophical, of scientific mind and
good genius, poetical, delighting in learning ar.d elegance, luxurious,
intelligent, emulous of worth, delighting in exercise, judicious, and
high-minded."
It will be seen from the foregoing judgment that the Prince
will, iii mind and taste, greatly resemble his grandfather, the good and
great Prince Albert. Indeed, Ekigland will be proud of her fifth King
George and his fame shall descend to posterity as one of the wisest and
best of monarchs.
Let the student watch the development of character in this
Prince, for the nativity is especially interesting from the fact that
Neptune, whose influence is little understood, occupies the proud posi­
tion of the ascending planet. The position of Jupiter pre-signifies a
very prosperous and peaceful reign; the good is somewhat marred by the
opposition of Uranus, but this cannot seriously interfere with the
happy influence of the glorious Jove.
The horoscope was computed for the time stated in the official
bulletin, namely 1:18 a.n. , and it was again given in FUTURE, March 1892,
and in Zadkiel's Almanac for 1911.
However, if the time be rectified to 1:15 a.m., the arcs of the
primary directions operating near the pen. od of the accession to the
throne will be brought up much more close]y. As it ve ry frequently
happens that, astrologically speaking, the true moment of birth-
- that at w
i
which the infant's first breath is drawn-
- is found to be from two to
five minutes earlier than that observed, no objection can be raised to
His Majesty's true moment of birth being rectified three minutes earlier.
The diagram here presented is drawn for 1:15 a.m. of June 3, 1865,
Marlborough House, in latitude 51°30'16" N . , and longitude (in time)
37" W.
h m s
Sidereal time at Greenwich mean n o o n ........ 4:43:52.13
Add time elapsed............................. 13:15
Add difference mean and sidéral time 13^15'. . 2:10.59
18: 1: 2.72
Subtract longitude of birthplace 37" West. . .
_____ 37.00
H,A. of M.C. is 270°6'26". . . ............... 18:00:25.72
198
King George V,
June 3, 1865, 1:15 a.m,
London
R.A.M.C 2 J 0 ° 6 ' 2 6 "
The arc of accession to
the throne, at 44y. lira., is
44°55' . The following train
of primary directions will
be found to approximate
closely thereto:
O <
¥ D , mundo, conv. 44°211
MC £ 0 ,zodiac, dir. 44°47 *
O □ , zodiac, dir. 44°57 '
Asc, P. % ,zod., dir. 45°03'
Asc. P. 2
j
. ,z;od., conv. 45°16'
D serai □ Qzod., conv. 45°21*
21 , zodiac, conv. 45°27 *
© sesquid H ,zod. ,conv.45°33'
By rectifying the time
of birth from 1:18 a.m. to
1:15 a.m., the arc o f O □ ^
zod.conv. is brought from
45°36' to 44°57', as close
as is necessary to the arc
for the demise of the father
and his Majesty's accession
to the throne, Hay 6, 1911.
Again, the arc of M . C . A 0
zodiac is brought from 44°2'
to 44°47', and that of Asc.
P* 21,
Lat. Déclin. R.A,i . M. D. S.A.»
o 22(
317'159"N 70(
3571
>25" 19°19 »01" 581 '26"
D 2°27g1
'S 2 39 54 S 179 57 45 89 51 19 93 21 19
$ 3 s 14 10 15 N 46 57 13 43 9 13 71 29 20
$ 1 30 s 13 16 59 N 37 43 27 52 22 29 72 43 56
c
f 1 26 N 20 16 34 N 128 19 54 38 13 28 62 19 16
2
1
b
0 26i N 22 56 30 S 265 17 31 4 48 55 57 50 42
2 40 N 6 51 24 S 203 15 39 66 50 47 81 18 14
id 0 12 N 23 39 12 N 88 30 3 1 36 23 56 34 59
1 2
9
-
1
- S 2 39 9 N 9 55 1 80 11 25 86 39 38
zodiac, direct, from
44°18' to 45°3',
and that of the
same direction
conversely, from
46°1' to A5°16'.
These three last
named directions
!5§d?°IgJful for
pre-signify a
fortunate and
prosperous reign.
It has been said that as Jupiter was retx’
Ograde and in opposition
to Uranus, near the lower meridian, at the birth of King George V,
the prospects of a long reign are not good, and that loss of inheri­
tance is threatened. (This statement was made on a post-card sent,
anonymously, to the author on January 5, 1911, by a disloyal Socialist,
who disgraced himself by writing very di sraspect¡fully of his gracious
Majesty. Evidently the wish was father of the thought. He laid stress
on the accession taking place coincidently with the direction o f Q Q
But he forgot that Queen Victoria acceded to the throne in 1837, under
the primary direction, in her Majesty's nativity of © «
f
i
j
j 18°3' , at­
tended by 2j.par.Q 18°37'; and the Victorian reign was a brilliant one,
and continued for sixty-three years (1837-1901). He also said that
"Neptune's influence is better understood now than in 1865," but did
not acknowledge that the author was the first to discover and demon­
strate that Neptune's influence is more evil than good.) Jupiter is
199
elevated above Uranus and all the other Celestial bodies, and very
near the upper meridian, and is in Sagittarius his chief dignity. His
rétrogradation matters not. As far back as 1878, in which year the
first edition of this work was published, the author wrote; "Planets
retrograde at birth are said to bring poverty and sickness, but this
can only apply to the infortunes"— -Mars and Saturn. Again, in the
first edition of the "Science of the Stars" (1881) this was reiterated
as follows:---
RETROGRADATION,— An apparent motion of the planets cont rary to the
order of the signs and to their orbital motion, In nativities it was
formerly held that a retrograde planet can do little or no good unless
well dignified. It is an absurd notion and is now abandoned."
This royal horoscope is rendered additionally strong by the
mundane sextile of the Sun to the ascendant, tho position of the benefic
Venus in the ascendant and in her chief dignity the sign Taurus, the
proximate mutual trine aspect of the Sun and Moon (Sun trine Moon mundo,
conv. 2°43', and in the zodiac 6°34'), and the proximate trine of Mars
to the ascendant (2°14'). Neptune, although in the ascendant, is de­
prived of most of his power to do evil by reason of the sextile aspect
of the Sun, and Saturn's evil influence is greatly mitigated by the
sextile of Jupiter. In fact, there is no valid reason for qual ifying
the opinion expressed by the author forty-four years ago, namely that
his Majesty's reign would prove to be very prosperous and peaceful.
The rectification adopted is supported by the primary directions
measuring to the period of his Majesty's marriage, July 5, 1893, arc
28°5':—
Moon sextile Sun, zodiac conversely 27°42'
Ascendant sextile Yenus, mundo, conversely28° 8'
The Sun directed to the sextile of Venus in the zodiac, 29°16'
followed, and closely coincided ’
/nth the birth of the Prince of Wales,
June 23, 1894---29°3'.
The longitudes placed on the Xlth, Xtlth, lid and Illd houses
were computed by means of the formula Oblique Ascension given to find
ecliptic longitude given in the appendix. The poles of those houses
were first computed, the pole of the Xlth and H i d houses being 23°39'6",
and that of the XIIth and lid houses being 40°45’4". The oblique
ascension of the Xlth house is found by adding 30° to the right ascen­
sion of the meridian thus:— 270°6'26" plus 30° = 300°6'26". In like
manner, adding 60° to the R.A. of K.C. we have 330°6'26" as the 0,A,
of the twelfth house.
With the foregoing examples of rectifying, when necessary, the
stated time of birth, the student should soon become expert in the
process. It is a difficult task at first, especially when the time of
birth is not known nearer than within fifteen or twenty minutes, when
a sign of short ascension rises, or half an hour or more when a sign of
long ascension may occupy the ascendant.
That great astronomer Kepler devoted much time and labour to
rectification. One astronomer opposed to astrology did not scruple to
insult the memory of that genius by writing that Kepler "though on
200
behalf of .
.
.
t
h
e world he worked at astronomy, for his own daily.?bread
he-was■in; the employ of astrology, making almanacks and drawing.-.
.
.
.
horoscopes that he might live.” kax Luller wrote of .Kepler that? —
"The torch of imagination is as necessary to him who looks for truth,
as the lamp of study; Kepler held both, and, more than that, he had
the star of faith to guide him in all things from darkness to light,"
"Kepler helieved that a man brings the celestial influences on himself
by his own deeds, often to acceleration or retardation. In his opinion
a marriage and its attendant circumstances depend on our own action.
But a dangerous illness, a severe accident, and any unexpected impor­
tant event, may be due to planetary influence. Such events as these
last were only made use of by Kepler for the purpose of rectification
of a doubtful or inexact statement of the moment of birth." Here
follows his method of rectification in his own words:-
-
.The horoscope of Wallenstein was computed by Kepler; the
statement of the great general's birth being "September 14, 1583, at
Prague about 4:30 p.m." Wallenstein having, suffered from illness
"aetatis 22, anno 1605, in January"-
- the Kun;
-arian sickness or plague—
the "directionis Ascend exitis ad corpus Satumi" probably was the cause,
for Nature takes her modos et leges de-directionibus. Therefore the
Ascensio opliqua Satumis must be taken sub altitudine poli 51°. (N.B.—
the latitude of Prague is 50°5'16", as lately determined.) Oriente
circiter 22° of Pisces est angulus orientis 15°36*. The latitude of
Saturn meridiana est 2°27', differentia igitur coorientaria 8°47', et
Saturn oritur cum 27°47' Pisces circitur. Laboriosus igitur luriando
hunc coorientem, angulus apud ilium est 15°29'; differentia coorientaria
8°50'. Ita Saturn oritur cum 27°50' of Pisces.
Et quia Jovi latitudo meridiana est 1°37' eodum angulo. Ergo
differentia coorientaria 5°50', et Jupiter oritur cum 28°33' Pisces.
Sic etiam, quia oppositi Kercurio puncti latitudo cit 1°46' angulo
eodem. Differentia ejus coorientaria 6°23' quare occidit Mercurius cum
28°58' Virgo.
Jam ascensiones obliqui sunt
Saturni
Jovis
. ■ llercurii
Therefore-the three directions fall within half a year,
,whilst the fourth-
- Ascendant opposition Sun-
- will operate the next
.year.. What -is very remarkable, while Saturn may have given the Hungar-
.ian sickness, kercury the plague, we find Ascendant conjunct Kupiter
as a saving direction after the rules of astrology. Now if we take
the middle, 359°30', 269°30* culminavit, or Sagittarius 29°22', and
compute the cpurse of the Sun for 21 l/3 days r 21°7* , which must be
added to the place of the Sun radix 0°44^-' Libra so locus directionis
will.be 21q 52' Libra, ascensio recta ejus being 200°12'. This sub­
tracted from 269°20' gives the rectified time of birth 69°8' or 4:36§
p.m. The truelu.C. is 69°8’ plus 180°44' = R.A. 249°52', or Sagit­
tarius 11°25', the true ascendant of Aquarius 17°.
Kepler predicted serious effects from "the transits and the
five oppositions of Saturn and Jupiter from 1632 to,1634, which
affect, first the locus directionis Solis, and will, operate in 1654;
350° 3'
359° 30’
359° 34'
SOI
On the-r/radical places.of Saturn, Jupiter,,.-and Mercury; wiiilst in
i
farch.-1634, Mans will .oppose the Suny .Venus-and-Mercury will form
a curious cross,, for which time it will.again.come to my prognosti­
cation already .given" .
.
(
-
i
n
-:
the, horoscope in 1608] "as far as may be
expected, tepg-ible entanglements in.the .country, connecte.dwith the
.fortunes of. trailer!stein." ;
.Wallenstein,was .murdered'on February 25, 1534; the political
troubles were.prognosticated by Kepler•exactly by means of the above-
named transits. . i
. .Dr.-Struve writes of Kepler that «thousands.of schemes"-
-
or::
hproscopes-.--"which must be .dated. ..frpm,.-.the. handwritings prior to
1608, and for. which Kepler could not have been adequately 'remunerated
by persons who consulted him, constitute a testimony to his great
pains and labour to discover a-connexion.between the events in the
lives of men and -the primary directions ,
in their nativities.. ,-It is
clearly to be-recognised that his laborious calculations must;
-have
occupied an immense amount of his -time."
If there, were no truth whatever in astrologia, Sana, and if
the pursuit of it were a delusion, as.its enemies, who are utterly
ignorant of it, inanely aver, so honest a man as Kepler could, never
have practised it in any way. His genius would soon have pentrated
its falseness, and he would have published the result of his iong
investigation as proving that it was unreal and unw orthy of serious
study. But neithex’ Kepler nor Tycho Brahe ever gave such a’verdict,
nor did the author of the Novum Organum condemn astrology as worthless,
for they wrote of it with respect-, and, moreover, sought to.improve it.
My valued friend Mr. Arthur Mee, of Llanishen, Cardiff, an
astronomer who has investigated astrology in an impartial spirit of
enquiry, with the result that ne is convinced that it is based on
truth, and is "a,great physical fact capable of rendering unlimited
assistance in the. social and moral field/' states that "Dr. Alfred R.
Wallace candidly admits the remarkable correctness, of some astrolog­
ical predictions which have come under his notice, but refers the
whole thing-to-some sort of .spirit influence." Dr, Wallace's conclu­
sion is that."the .care, attention, labour, and study required to draw
out an accurate-horoscope and derive from it accurate results, offer
the conditions which enable spirits to impress on the astrological
student the particular results he gets from fhe perplexities ,of the
figures."
I have, from time fo.,time, during half a centui'y,
. protested
■that astrologia sana is.not, "occult", and has no part nor lot...with
spiritism. ’
Then, in -1867 ,
.I .wrote my judpient on the impor1j.,.qf the
horoscope of Prince George, -second son (then onlytwo years,old) of
the Prince of Wales, I gave the astrological reasons for my belief that
the horoscope was indeed a royal one, and that the second son of H.R.H.
the Prince of ’
Tales, would one day be King of England under the title
of King George V. I showed the prediction I had written, to no one be­
fore it was printed and published— forty-three"years, before.his
gracious Majesty succeeded to. the throne. I have never sought the
impress, nop.-ever: was conscious■
,
of the-.impress, of any spirit, when
writing, any.-of my-.astrological predictions, .Daily I humbly pray for
Divine guidance in my studies, and in my efforts to discover truths
202
which-mayvhe;-.-under the Divine .blessing, useful to mankind. This
predictloirunder consideration was read 'in.1867 and 1868 by quite
thirty thousand purchasers (and others )
.
-
of the .annual in which it
was printed; and was attested,, unsolicited by me,, by a scientific
géntlemen of impartial mind, for he was quite unknown,to me until I
received the following valuable letter-from him, in July 1910;—
"Dear Sir: Your readers will agree with me, I feel sure, that your
prediction made in 1867 was a very remarkable one,-to say the least,,
I have pointed it out to many persons in my copy of your annual for 1868,
which I read that year, when a youth of sixteen, and have carefully
preserved. I'do not dogmatise for or against astrology. As an examiner
-in English Literature I can testify to the value-of a. knowledge of
astrology for one who reads Chaucer.''-'That is so nauseating is _
uhe con­
ceited manner in which those who are absolutely ignorant of both astro­
logy and astronomy- condemn the former science, although it won the
attention and respect of many of the greatest men who ever lived. In
your annual for 1868 you gave the maps of the heavens, specula, and
astrological judgments' respecting Prince Albert Eictor and Prince
George of ’
Tales. The inner circle of the horoscope of the former Prince
contained three ostrich plumes, that of Prince George had a royal crown.
This was very significant. Writing of this nativity, you-.said that the
younger Prince would be King of England,■under the title of King George
V. *
The 'universal solvent to get rid of such facts, among sceptics, i
is coincidence, a word’
'which-must be as coiihortable to them as Mesopo­
tamia was to the old lady. People ought to f o m their own judgment; and
ought not to be content to deny the truth of astrology merely because
it is the fashion to' do so-
- Edmund S. Payne.
This exactly fulfilled-prediction should satisfy even sceptics
■that astrologie sana is true and that, as Del-organ, the great mathemat­
ician admitted, "If astrology be true, it is a useful truth." Dr.
Alfred R. Wallace, for whose talents, attainments and independence of
mind, I have the highest admiration and respect, vâll, I trust, admit
that pure astrology is a science and is hot dependent on spirit impress.
A- sceptic has recently asserted that; "Although when St.
Augustine relinquished astrology he was of the opinion that chance was
the cause of some of the predictions being fulfilled, he.altered his
opinion,evidently, because as a theist he could not-hold to the idea of
chance occurrences." St Augustine said: "We have good reason to believe
that when astrologers give many wonderful answers it is to be attributed
to the occult inspiration of spirits not of the best kind, whose care it
is to insinuate into the minds of men and to confirm in-those false and
noxious opinions concerning the fatal influences of .the stars, and not
to their marking and inspecting' of horoscopes, according to some kind of
art which has no existence."
This argument cah:only apply to dccu3.tists, who mix up
astrology with spiritism, -and who never attempt to master- the mathemat-
•ical system of the ancient -science. I -have repeatedly protested that
astrology is not "occult." I-tshojild be pursued and practised as a
■science.'In-the first'- edition (1881 ) of my "Science o-f the Stars," I
stated1that Astro logia Saha has nothing-'-'whatever with spirit rapping,
205
palmistry, card-shuffling, or witchcraft: it doss not lead to
atheism nor fatalism. As Bacon (Lord Verulam). said: "there is no
fatal necessity in the stars, and this the more, prudent astrologers
have allowed." .
.
St. Augustine took a very erroneous view of pur astrology,
and it seems that he forgot that Our Saviour alluded to the "powers"—
or virtues— in the celestial bodies---vide Matthew xxiv. 29, and Mark
xiii, 25.
F003N0TS.
1. This relates to direct directions of the angles. In the
case of converse directions of the angles, if the arc of direction is
one degree greater than that of the event subtract one degree from the
R.A. of the M.C,, and if it be less add one degree to the R.Â. of the
M.C. ~
CHAPTER XXXVI
ON SOLAR REVOLUTIONS
205
The "Solar Revolution" is a figure of the heavens drawn for
the moment of the return of the Sun to the longitude (in degrees, min­
utes and seconds), held by the great luminary at the moment of birth.
It is, of course, purely symbolical, and its import is not so great
when it differs greatly from the nature of the primary directions fall­
ing due in the year of life then being entered upon. It should be
drawn for the birthplace; but if permanent residence has been taken up
at a great distance from the birthplace, then an additional figure
should also be computed to the latitude and longitude of such place,
and compared with the former one.
Zadkiel I thought that the chart of birth should be copied
(in black ink), and the places of the Loon and planets at the Solar
return marked in the various signs and houses (in red ink)-
- because
the signification of the revolutional signification depends on the
transits which coincide with the moment of the Sun's return to his
place at birth, more or less nearly. The importance of such transits
is great by reason of their occurring at or near the moment of birth.
This teaching is sound. However, when a planet happens to be culminat­
ing, rising, setting, or on the lower meridian, at the moment of the
Sun's return, it is found to have some signification by reason of its
relative position, and all the more if configurated with the Sun, Loon,
or some other celestial body. In all cases it is advisable to compare
the revolutional figure with the nativity.
Revolutional figures are much more forecful, as a rule, when
the same sign ascends as ascended at birth, and especially if the degree
ascending is within a few degrees of the radical ascending degree.
Every thirty-three years the ascending degree of the revolution approx­
imates very closely the degree rising at birth. For example, at the
author's birth the sign Sagittarius 10°29' ascended (November 10, 1840,
9:20 a.m., London). At the thrity-third Solar return Sagittarius lloO*
ascended, and at the sixty-sixth, Sagittarius 13°41’ ascended. In all,
nine revolutional figures show the sign Sagittarius rising, down to
that of 1910.
The Sun was but 8°53' from Jupiter at birth; and at the
revolutions of 1851, 1863, 1875, 1887, 1899, and 1911, the same benefic
planet will be found to be very near the Sun; the sidereal revolution
of Jupiter being 11.9 years.
When the angles of the nativity are reversed at the Solar
revolution it is not a promising indication. If, however, Jupiter
or Venus be exactly rising or culminating the figure ’
would be a favour­
able one, nevertheless.
Aspects have not any great power unless they are very close,
i.e., within five degrees in the case of the Sun and Loon (applying),
within two degrees if a major aspect between planets, or within one
degree if a minor aspect. Sextiles are wreak compared with conjunctions,
parallel declinations, trines, and oppositions.
208M>
When more than one planet happens to be close to the cusp of
the ascendant, descendant y iipp.ér.-pr lower meridian, the revolution is
a very important one.
- The position of the.:Sun is of the greatest importance. The
position of .the.Moon is very important when she is in the tenth house
and in close .aspect with the Sun or a planet. Next in importance is
the position of the planet (if any) which was close to the ascendant or
upper meridian at the Moment of birth. Mars rising at birth and again
in, a Solar revolution Abrihgs a return of an old complaint,*' so it is
said. I have.'observed many instances wheheih the ruddy planet, thus
situated; pr'esignified accidents or illness, or strife, Saturn, so
.situated indicates accidents;
or illness, or else misfortune.
If at birth Saturn, Mans, or Uranus, was on the cusp of the
sixth or seventh house and thé degree of the zodiac held by such planet
should ascend at the revolution, illness is pre-signified. If one of
these planets was on the cusp of the third or ninth house of the nativ­
ity and its place ascends at a revolution, danger in travelling is
threatened, in the ensuing year. Uhen Jupiter, or Tenus, is on the
cusp of the second house of the nativity, the thirty-third and sixty-
sixth Solar revolutions bring increase of income,’or of wealth. If its
place in the zodiac ascends or occupies the upper meridian at any revo­
lution, the ensuing year, proves a very successful one.
The Sun in opposition or quadrature with Saturn at a revolu­
tion pre-signifies illness or losses to the father; and if the Sun be
in an angle and near the cusp, or in the eighth.house, the father will
be in danger. (The author's forty-second Solar revolution— November
10, 1882, 1:40 p.m.— had the Sun in the eighth’
house, in opposition
with Saturn, nearly, in Taurus 23°4', applying to conjunction'with
Mars in Scorpio 26°45', and separating from opposition with Neptune
in Taurus 17°24’-
- the Sun was eclipsed' at’11 :.20.piym. on that 'day.
His father died on May 9, 1883.) •.'• V .
The Moon, if exlipsed near the time of the. Solar return, and
afflicted by Saturn, Mars, or Uranus, indicates danger to the'mother
(or if the Moon was in the seventh house at birth, to the wife or hus­
band, as the case may be); and especially if the place of an evil planet
at birth ascends or if Saturn ascends at the moment of the Sun’s return.
The Moon, if afflicted at birth by quartilo, opposition or
conjunction with Saturn or Lars,, and if she transits the radical place
of either of these planets at the moment of Solar return, serious risk
of an injury to an eye, is pre-signified.
. .-The Moon, .in conjunction,, quartile or opposition, with Saturn
at the Solar revolution threatens rheumatism, influenza, or an accident.
If the Moon occupied a fixed sign at birth and applied .to Saturn, there
is grave risk of a malignant chronic disease setting in.
The place of the radical Moon, Mercury,' or Uranus, ascending
at the Solar return, there is a disposition to travel far, to .be rest­
less, or to indulge in some romantic exploit, that year.
-The place of Venus— especially if Venus was in Taurus or
207, ;
libra, or,in.the ascendant:, pr,-seventh. house at birth— ascending at a
'Solar resolution., inclines to .courtship and marriage. If the owner of
the nativity;.is already married, an increase ;
of family usually takes
.place in-the course of the:ensuing, year of.life. Anyone engaged in a
profession or .business under the rule oiVVenu-s -may realise advancement,
..promotion,, and, increase of income. . .
..
. .. ,
_
Venus.,, or. Jupiter, qr both, exactly,:rising at a-Solar revolu­
tion, a good year for.health.
and affairs may be anticipated, whether
either of. them, ascended at birth, or not.-
THE FIRST HOUSE.— If the'celestial body ruling the ascending sign
of the nativity be found .
.
i
n
. the "Tilth house qf the revolution, a single
person i
s
,
,inclined towards marrying, more ■especially .if-a primary direc­
ti o n ..of..Venus, coincides. If .in the -IXth,house, there .is a disposition
"to travel; but if the significator is with .Saturn- or.Mars it would be
best to refrain from voyaging abroad. . .
HIE SECOND HOUSE.— The,ruler of the. radical second house in the
^evolutional :
II.d and assisted by Jupiter favours., the development of
business and the acquirement of wealth; if-afflicted by Saturn,,Mars,
or Uranus, precaution is
. .needful .against losses and being defrauded.
In the IVth, some advantage may be gained frqm property in land or
houses; if afflicted by Mars, extra precaution and insurance against
fire is advisable, and.fresh investments in lands, houses,, or mines
should be very small indeed. In the. YLlIth some advantage may accrue
under a will,. In the Xth,' good business-will be done;, if afflicted by
"Saturn losses will be suffered.. -
THIRD HOUSE.— If the ruler of the radical third be in the revolu-
tioiial 1/IIIth house, and in conjunction with Saturn or.Mars, .travelling
will not be. profitable, and. danger, therein will be incurred if the
ruler had the quartile or opposition of Mars or Saturn at .birth. In
the IXth, profitable journeys and good business are promised, unless
the ruler receives the evil influence, of Mars-, .Saturn, Uranus or Neptune.
If the ruler of the radical .third be Venue or Jupiter., and in, the
¿evolutional Xth house, business will be prosperous, and some public
honour may be received. . . ...
FOURTH HOUSE*— If the ruler of the. radical fourth house be a male­
fic planet., and in. the revolutional fourth,, or radical XLth, and afflic­
ted, tho father will be in some, serious danger. If -in the revolutional
Xllth, the owner of the nativity must beware, of losses by a tenant, if
he" iets land or houses.
SIXTH HOUSE.— If the ,
ruler of the. radical, sixth house be Saturn or
Mars.,, and afflicted in the,-revolutional Illd or- IXth’
, there is risk of
illness as tho result of, ,a journey, or an accident in travelling,,
especially if the ruler is,"hyleg.". .In the Xth, disputes may arise with
the.landlord, or (if in employment) vlth .a naster..
. SEVMIil HOUSE.-rThc Moon or Venus in the revolutional, seventh, and
’in conjunction .
.
o
r opposition .with Mars,.Saturn,- or Uranus..threatens a
•
man's, wife or fiancee with illness, if Saturn or Maps be in the radical
seventh, very no.anthe cusp,., and in the revolutional. Vllth -again, it
threatens serious danger to the wife; and in women's nativities,
. -the same
208,'
.to.tho husband:..-:MThe r-uler:of the radical seventh, in the r'cvolutional
sixth, and afflicted, d-omestic- quarrels and misunderstandings ensue.
Jupiter or 7/Venus, ruler'of the radical seventh:and in'the revqlutional
.Vllth, conjugal happiness is assiiited*;- in the' case of a single person,
the year will be favourable on# fof'marrying. If Saturn, Mars, or
Uranus be ruler of the radical seventh and- afflicting the ruler of the
radical first in the rcvolutional Xth there is risk of loss of office,
or business losses through- an enemy! --If the ruler of the radical seventh
bo in the rcvolutional Xllth and afflicted, a-single person should avoid
marrying during the ensuing year;-a debtor should beware of imprisonment.
Emigration should NOT take place if an evil planet be in the Tilth.
EIGHTH HOUSE.— If the Sun or Moon, whichever may be hyleg, be ruler
of the radical .-ascendant,
' iii the revolutional Vlllth house , and .in con­
junction, quartile, or oppdsitioh with Ma r s •
or Saturn, strict'precaution
must be taken against illness;' and the countries and places ruled by the
sign containing the hyleg at -birth and in the revolutional figure, must
be avoided that year. The ruler of the radical VIIIth in.the revolu­
tional IVth, and afflicted portends accidcarts/'damage' to'property , and
an- ill time for '-.buying-land and-houses. In t he‘
revolutional seventh,
long journeys should not -be taken alone, especially-abroad',' for if the
nativity be:.a violent one, the owner of -if may never' return home safe
and sound. In-the IXttv, if the ruler (of the'radical eighth)'be Mars,
Saturn, Uranus, or Nept-uhC, and afflicted therein * no journey abroad
should bo taken,-for it may too probably prove fatal. (Mr. G
-
. wh'oso
-nativity had. Scorpio on the-eighth cusp, had Mars conjunct Uranus in
the. ninth of. -his 75th solar revolution. -He went abroad to winter,
although advised not to c
i
o so, and died- in a foreign country. His
health was delicate but not in any serious state when he loft England.
The fatal- primary.direction was ascendant conjunction Saturn.) The
ruler of the radical' eighth a benefic and in the revolutional eighth,
well configurated, promises benefits by a legacy, or by the partner in
marriage coming into property.
NINTH HOUSE.— The Moon in the revolutional IXth house usually pre­
signifies, a sea voyage, more especially if at the time in Cancer,
Virgo,- Scorpio or Pisces. If the Moon be afflicted by Saturn or Lars,
no sea voyage of long duration should be taken, if avoidable. The
ruler of the radical ninth in the revolutional IVth, and afflicted,
foreign journeys had best be avoided. If it be'with Jupiter or Venus,
in either the revolutional Tilth or IXth, made with a good prospect c
-
f
success, especially if a suitable primary direction should fall due
about the .same time as the Sola-r revolution under consideration.
TENTH HOUSE.— Saturn in the Xth houso of the revolution, or olevat-
.od above the.other■
cOlesti'a-1 bodies near the upper meridian, threatens
misfortunes, troubles, and-anxiety-‘
of mind.- If at the same time. Saturn
afflicts the Sun "or Moon, and- Mercury, professional and' business men
are only too likely to meet with'-serious 'reverses,, or loss of income
and of popularity, -especially if an evil- primary direction of Saturn
be operating in the nativity. Mars threatens troubles from ai
r official,
.
a magistrate,.' or-a judge, or through being scandalised or libelled.
Jupiter'..elevates and brings some honour Ok promotion/-Venus-brings
social pleasures, -advancement , and -the -friendship of ladies of wealth
or rank. Kefcury ,'ttfell aspeoted,' increases professional or"business
.reputation--and success. The Moon exactly on the upper meridian usually
209
causes change of residence or of employment', or else a iohg journey.
Changes m i l be beiiofic.ial or otherwise adcording to the nature of the
. celestial bo dies,:with ^vh.ich the Moon may hold a conjunction, trine, or
sextile aspect, on the -one hand, or conjunction, quartile, or opposition
on the other.: .If the ruler of the radical.tenth house be the Sun, Moon,
Venus, Jupiter,, or Mercury, and located in.the revolutional 1st, espec-
t ially if the radical ascending sign, be again ascending, and well config­
urated, it...promises adyanc.Gment, promotion, honpurs, and prosperity. In
" the lid,, good business-and increase of substance. In the Illd or IXth,
, a good year for travelling.on business. , in'.the Xth, honours, promotion,
and success,. ..In the Xtth, new friend's of position, and influential;
and success to children. .
. . . . .
ELEVENTH HOUSE.— if Jupiter or Venus'be located in the revolutionai
.t XE-th house and in benefic. aspect .with .the .Sun, Moon, or Mercury in the
ascendant, new friends of good, social.status or wealth, will be made,
;in. the ensuing year.- If a conjunction of two of the infgrtuhes, or of
the Sun or Moon ’
with Mars, Saturn, -or. Uranus, takes place in either the
radical or revolutionai Xlth house,"a friend will bo lost by death or
■ some misfortune.. A mutual sextile of the Sun and Moon ,from the ascend­
ant and Xtth of either the radix or. revolution would be of .'valuable
help, in bringing the ..influence of good friends to the benefit of the
owner of the horoscope. The ruler of the radical 30!th afflicted in the
- revolutionai VIth is s.aid to pro-signify danger to a.friend.
■
T-TELETH HOUSE.— If Mars, or Mercury afflicted by Mars, be ruler of
the XEIth of the radix, and found on the cusp of the Vllth house of
either the radix.or revolution, .there is .a".great risk of incurring
serious losses by the depredations of thieves and knaves, and of per­
sonal injury at the hands.of -highwaymen, in'*.the ensuing year. If the
: ruler of the ascendant of the radix be more powerful and better aspected
than that of the'XEIth, there is'a-good prospect, of overcoming such
enemies. An evil planet ruler-'of the radical XEIth located in the
revolutionai lid house pre-signifies. lose of money; and loss ,cf cattle
to a breeder of thorn. In the XEIth some loss of or injury from cattle,
or-at the hands of a convict.
The last Solar revolution of King Edward VII was remarkable
for the proximity of the evil Saturn to the upper meridian and its
elevation above all the other celestial bodies. Here are the elements
of the revolution figure:-- -
.
'Time of the Sun's 68th’return to the-.longitude held at the
moment of birth (vide page 188.), 10:42:03. p.,m. of November 9, 1909.
R.A, of M.C. = 2S°53',Taurus 1°1’ culminating, and Leol7°9* ascending.
Sun in the IVth houso,. in Scorpio 16°54,18w , attended by. Mercury in
3°28' of the same sign.- Moon* in-the. H i d house, in Libra 12.°32'
(intercepted)- attended by. Jupiter in'.5°49' of the sam.e sign. . Venus in
the Vth house in Capricorn 2°44'. Mars close to the cusp of the IXth
house in Fisces 27°11' . Saturn in the- IXth house- in Ain os 17°45' ,
retrograde, receiving the application of the Moon by opposition aspect.
Uranus in the cusp of the Vlth houso, in Capricorn 17°55*, in opposi­
tion, noarly, with Neptune in tho XEIth houso, in Cancer 19°15'.
Saturn passed the meridian at 9:56 p.m. (forty-six minutes
only before the Sun's return to his place at birth), and was in the
210 •'
IKth, tiic house ruling- lOjig .journeys, in quartile aspoqt wq.th Uranus on
the cusp of the TOth^^'h©'-house! ‘
of sickness, and receiving-the ^opposi­
tion of the Moon -from *th.eullld, the house ruling short ¡journeys. The
indications that -
a ¡serious--.risk would be. incurred by his late-Majesty
venturing-on a long journey"¡abroad, during the ensuing year of life,
■were clear and' unmistakoable;- .The .¡primary directions operating in the
following March to June (1910) also'being, serious for health, and travel­
ling', the-author wrote' the-guardedly worded- warning to the King’s phy­
sicians,- already quoted at p.lSlv At 9:30 p.m,.,
.March 6> 1910, -when
King"'Edward'started on his journey* the -Moon, was in Capricorn 15°, exact­
ly opposite tho 'place of Mars at birth,, close, to'the place of Uranus in
the Solar revolution, and in quartile to the place of. Saturn. Ax the
time of his Majesty’s demise the Moon was in Aries 13°50’, close to the
place of-Saturn at the Solar revolution! '
.
• At King Edward’s..64th Solar revolution, viz.11:20:2 p.m., Nov­
ember 9, 1905-, Leo 23°26’ ascended, and Saturn was sotting in Aquarius
26°17r, retrograde, the'Sun had: the semi-quartile-aspect with Uranus,
and the Moon had the quartile with Mars.- His Majesty whilst shooting in
Windsor Forest, on the -16th of the. same.month, put his.foot into a
'rabbit burrow, 'and, slipping, fell to the ground- and sprained his ankle.
In April 1906, during-his holiday at Biarritz-, the automobile_ in which
his Majesty was travelling.‘
had. the narrowest of escapes from..collision
with a runaway horse, an accident.being avoided only-by the dexterity
of the driver. Again, vjhile at Corfu, on the 13th of the same month,
the >royal carriage came into collision.with .
a cart driven by some drunk­
en-peasants, who were thrown out, .and one -of-than, was injured. Happily
the King and Queen escaped injury. 1Three-accidents thus happened within
five months of the revolution under, consideration.
• „ In-URANIA, .February 1880, the author gave the horoscope of the
Tsar Alexander II, who was born at.Mos'cow, April 29, 1818, at 10:00 a.m. ,
Aries 7°16* M.C. and ,Lco 4°42\ ascending. Mars was in the Xllth house
(ruling s-eci?ot .enemies), in semi.-quartile with the Sun'(mundo), and in
zodiacal sesquiquadrqte with the Moon in the Vlllth. 'The Sun (Hyleg)
had the mundane parallel of Saturn; and the'ascending degree had the
sesquiquadrato of Uranus. At the 62d Solar revolution, April 28, 1880,
9 :.40 a.m., Moscow, Mars-was agin, in the XLIth ho.use, in Cancer 9°37’, in
sextile with the Sun. Neptune was in Taurus il°38* only 3° from con­
junction with the Sun, The Moon was'in Sagittarius 2503 ’'close to the
place of Neptune at birth, and only 5° past that o'f Uranus, and her
declination (24°31’S) was in contra-parallel tilth that :
of Mars (24°43'N).
The Tsar, was cruelly assassinated on March 13, 1881, at 62y. and 10m.,
arc =Q.62°52’
-
, under the.operation of the primary direction of Sun rapt
parallel Mars 63°l6'. If .
-
w
o take the Sun'! s
. semi-diameter 0°16' from
this .arc we have'62°54!, for first contact, exactly coinciding with the
awfully tragic, death of that.well-meaning Monarch. The author wrote at
p.46 of URANIA that "the year 1881 .indicates personal suffering and
misfortunes— the Tsar, will find it difficult, indeed to weather the strom."
The Solar eclipse of Decembey 21., 1880, fell in'opposition to the place
•of Mars at the.Solar, return.';' ’
’ ,
* .....
. . i
CHAPTER XXXVII
ON SECONDARY DIRECTIONS
211
There is no reliable evidence of any rational system of
Astrology founded on mathematics before the first century, although
Sir Isaac Newton, in his CHRONOLOGY, admitted that astrology was in
existence nearly nine hundred years earlier than that period. It \vas
about the year 133 that the TETROBIBLQS was compiled by Claudius Ptolemy,
it is believed. Not until 1647 and 1657, when the Spanish monk,
Placidus de Titus, published his great work, the PKELCIVi IwOBILE, were
the principles enunciated in the TETRABIBLOS clearly understood. This
work was translated into English by John Cooper, from the original
Latin, and published in the year 1816. And in 1822, Ashmand published
his translation of the TETRABIBLOS from the Greek into English. Prior
to 1816 and 1822, the various translation of those valuable works, and
especially those by Sibly, were wretched and misleading, and led to
numerous errors on the part of Lilly, Coley, Sibly, Gadbury, White,
and others (when they treated on nativities and the method of direct­
ing) who followed the erroneous Arabian system of mixing up the system
of divination (horary questions), with the science of genethlialogy.
It is lamentable to find that this Arabian folly is still taught and
practised in certain publications of the present day.
Placidus most probably would not have regarded secondary
directions as of the slightest importance had he not departed from
Ptolemy’s equation of arcs of primary direction and substituted for it
tnat of adding the arc to the right ascension of the Sun at birth, and
then determining in how many days after birth the Sun reached such R.A.,
and allowing for each day one year of life, and for every two hours one
month.
”By some secondary means,” wrote Placidus, "the aspects that
are made to the luminaries and angles on those days, jointly assist the
significators of the primary directions; for this reason, we say, that
the days whereon these aspects happen are very powerful in those years
which answer to those days and on which they depend. From these motions,
in preference to the rest, appears the true, real, and hitherto unknown
foundation of the critical or climacterical years; for the Moon almost
every seventh day is placed in the critical place with respect to her
place in the nativity. We call these motions the secondary directions,
to distinguish them from the primary and principal, and we are of
opinion that Ftolamy, writing of annual places is to be understood of
the places of those motions, and when of the menstrual, hints at the
places of the progression.”
Yet m o d e m practitioners of tne Arabian and Chadloan astrology
regard Secondary Directions as Primary, and pass off the former alone as
reliable, and without any arcs of primary direction which may happen to
coincide, and without whicn the secondary directions are of not the
slightest importance. I have never found any secondary directions effec­
tive in my own nativity.
While Zadkiell was investigating and writing on the science,
in the first few years of his study of it, he paid some attention to
secondary directions. Even then (in 1840) he wrote of their supposed
effects as enduring "only for a week or two,”'
*
' and that "they are far
212
less powerful than primaiy directions, And if these are opposed to
them in nature, at the time,, they; have little or no effect.” In some
of his early almanack^ Zadklel'T %a¥e;-some secondary directions, at­
tending primary, in nativities of eminent persons; but he coased to do
so after 1845 (except in 1863).^ when, he .quoted, two or three, which
proved, to be of.no effect,).. "Then, ho found that the Ptolemaic ,©q^tioji
of the arcs of primary direction, came much nearer to the truth than the
Placidian, he observed that .the aid of no secondary direction was needed
to ascertain when the influence. the primary one would take effect.
Secondary directions are nothing more 'than transits in the
. heavens on the. days after,birth'. 'Whereas primary directions -are all
formed, as .already, shown, within a few hours'of the moment of birth.
' ; .
. The attempt) to 'galvanise into a
" semblance of life the dead
■Arabian system of judging nativities and computihg'"directions,” made
by practising astrologers who cannot, or will not■take the "time and
trouble.to compute nativities .on the Ptolemaic and Plabidian system, is
to present a very imperfect, unsound, and incorrect description of the
grand truths of ASTROLOGIA SANA.' '
,
• In the nativity of his Majesty King George V, the Sun by
secondary direction, would’arrive at the quartilo of the place of
Saturn, at 43 years and seven and a half months (43 days and’
fifteen
■ hours) after birth, which measures to January 1910. The demise of King
Edward .1711 took place on May.6, 1910. There were no other secondary
directions falling, duo in the.same year except Moon conjunct Mercury =
■ November 1910. .This "direction" of the Suh to'the square of Saturn
did not.indicate the time, when the primary direction of Sun square
Saturn, zodiac, 44°57' = May 19.10, would operate, for it measured four
months short of the bereavement. The student on comparing this second­
ary direction with the primary, ones falling due at the time of nis
Majesty's accession to the. throne will perceive how high the Placidian
towers over the halting end defective Arabian system.
Secondary directions arc computed as'follows:—
RULE.— Kind the hour, by) proportion, by means'of Ko.dkiel's ephemris
for the .year of birth,- at)’
.which the Sun, Moon, or planet forms an aspect
with the place of one of the celestial bodies, or the' degree of the
Midheaven, or Ascendant, and subtract 'from it the-day and hour of birth,
-
.
-
a
i
i
d the difference is the arc of direction. Convert the arc into time
by .taking, the number of days after birth -as ■
that •of years,' and allowing
one month for every two hour's. " , ; ■ ’
. r ■ There is no need to give an example of so simple a calculation.
’ I ';* ’ *
.In conclusion it'mby be said that the secondary As compared
with the. primary system of 'directing is;—
"As'moonlight is to sunlight, •
And as'waber untowine."
; . . . . . . . . . . ........ ( FOOTNOTE.
1.,.’'
Grammar''of'
Astrology; 'page 107;'
213 '
CHAPTER XXXVIII
' ON LüNAtlCNS- EGLt PSES, ANO PROGRESSES, ■. ;
. '"Alack oúr teprene .Moon '' K , . "
Is-now-,eclipsed; and it portends .alone' ' " l ' 1
'
'
The fall of Antony."-
- Shakespeare.
.Lunations are the :
New and Full Moons which immediately pre­
cede or coincide with .the occurrence .of dangerous accidents,' áevere
illnesses, or events of great importance"to individuals or nations.
When a new or full, moon 'takes'place, close" to the longitude
held.by the S.un, Venus, or Jupiter,at birth, .some benefit usually coin-
cides,- or. follows within the space- of,a
.
-fortnight oh so. ’When the lun­
ation-falls in the. radical..place of Saturn, Mars',.' tJranu's, or Neptune,
^accidents, illness, or trouble may be experienced, especially if it
coincides with-the period of operation of an adverse primary direction
in the nativity.
EOLIPSiS.— An eclipse of the’Sim or Loon falling, close to the place
■of either luminary at birth, or in opposition 'thereto , or, near conjunc­
tion or. opposition with a malefic planet (in the heaven's), pre-signifies
troubles or ill-health,, especially if such eclipse falls in the place of
the hyleg, and happens to be visible at the birthplace or the place of
residence at the time. ;If falling within five to eight degrees ot the
place of the Sun or. Moon at birth, some trouble is threatened, but to a
less extent than when falling within two degrees. As great eclipses
affect the multitude generally, serious results may follow, although no
evil primary direction may fall due in the same year of life of the
individual whose nativity is affected by them.
A great eclipse falling in, or within two or three degrees of,
the place of Jupiter, or-.Venus at birth, pre-signifies same honour, dis­
tinction, increase of. income, or improvement óf health, as the case may
be. It .may bring marriage to pass, in the case of an unmarried person
of full age. The kind of benefit.is usually indicated by the accidental
position (in the nativity) of the benefic plano't and its configuration.
Eclipses-taking place within two op throe days, if of the Sun,
and within two or.four hours, if of the Moqh', of the time of’the Sun's
return to,.hi.s-..longitude in -the nativity,, are of the greatest importance,
and the effects are of longer endurance than at other'times, as a rule.
' • . The; annular eclipse of the-Sun of October 19, 1865, took place
very nearly in th.e;
.degres -
of longitude; held by "the Sun at the birth of
Lord Painert on,,and- that illustrious" statesman passed away ero that
eclipse attained its greatest phase... Zadkiel I foretold the dangerous
character of that eclipse as follows;— "This eclipse'will, I expect, put
an end to his (Lord Palmerston's) pqwqr, and endager his life."
Lord Palmerston was b o m on October 20, 1784-, hour not stated.
-Here are the places of the celestial bodies at ’
Solar noon of that day,
at :G-rcenwi,ch;T—Sun, Libra 27°44*; Moon,
,Capricorh l2027* ; Mercury, Libra
11°40'; Venus, Scoppio 16°57 '¿
.Mars, Libra 20°34';4Jupiter, Aquarius
28°$?. ; Saturn., Capricorn 18°Ì0V; Uranus, Càrieór Ì6°2Ì'; Neptune, Libra
i4°io*... .. -
, '" '
The Sun was, no doubt, hyleg, ana his close trine (120°)
aspect with ■
'
•
t
h
e benefic- Jupiter*¿a've Lord'Palmerston .that vitality,
energy, jovialness., arid juvenility, for which he was so famous—
enabling him to attain the ripe age of 81 years. It is remarkable that
at his birth seven’of '.the' celestial bodies 'Were-' in cardinal signs.
In the chapter on. Equating Arcs of Primary Direction, it has
been already shown how the Solar eclipsed of 1902'and 1910 affected the
health of his lat Idajest’King’Bdward . ’• • •
*
' -
In STAR IDR3, December 1897, the author mentioned that during
the illness of her Majesty fyueexi Alexandra in February and March 1867,
the Sun was eclipsed in’Pisces'15025*, near' the:
p'laco of Jupiter (Pisces
2 4 ° 1 9 ) at birth,, and that .immediately’after an improvement bet in,, and
the; -attack, of' a’
cutje rheumatism gradually'passed off .
■ That severe ill­
ness was dua,~ astrplogically speaking;,' to1the’primary dirobt'i-on of
Saturn parallel Loon,’in’
’the zodiac, direct 22°20,V;
In- -the same edition of .STAR IOHE, the author wrote that ’
’
the
Solar eclipse of .January 22’
,.1898,' falls'"'~closc "to‘the place of Saturn
.in this.’
nativity. Happily, no .eviT dffoots need-be apprehended, beyond
suffering and .dannpr to a near relation, "h The Q,uo’
en of Denmark, the
mother, of Q,ueen Alexandra, died in September 1898. •
It Is related di Charles D'Escaro, Bishop of -Lan-gres, that he
'always fainted at an eclipse "of “
the Loon’
,1and remained insensible as
.long, as it, lasted. Then he ’
was very old and infirm an eclipse took
place,■the venerable prelate faintedy as usual, and he did not revive
again. ' ’ . / ’ .’ / ■
;
It was the inconvfciiient idihyncracy-of'the-'groat Lord Verulam
always to faint,
at the commencement of a lunar eclipse.
IROGHiSSiS f;c6naidt of the procession of the"Loon, by allowing
an. embolisrr.ic or synodical lunation, consisting of 29§- days, for a year
of life. The Moon, at the progress is a’
t exactly the-same distance in
■longitude from the Sun as it was at. the moment of birth.
The Moon finishes twelve lunations and enters the thirteenth
11 days less .than one’year after birth;- finishes-24 lunations in 22 days
less than two years after birth; completes 56 lunations (corresponding
;to the age o.
f 36 years) in 33 days less than three years-after birth,
and so on.
,
I
; r t .
*
. . -In’Zadki.el..,s Almanac, '
I
9
0
8
-
'
-
, the author directed attention to
the..fact, that’
,at the.'sixtieth lunar progress of King- Edward11/11, Sep-
tenbop 16,. 1846’
, 7:tL6 a.m., ‘
G-.M'.T. , when the Moon'Was- at the- same dis­
tance-, 47°28.', from, the 3'uh as at the moment of birth, the1
-'Sun was
within two degrees of exact' conjunction with Mars' in the,
-
i
sign Virgo (the
YEIIth house of the royal nativity), in opposition to’the- p-lhce of
Uranus, -and in parallel declination with both Mars and Uranus-
- thus
accounting for the serious Illness, and the•surgical operation on that
.pa,rt.of. the body ruled by the Mqph.''In Virgo at birth. MdreeVer, on
;0ctober’
.
.
4
, .1846 ,.
.
a
t
. 10:6 p,m..;t]j.e:M6gh formed''the’opposihldh of the Sun,
■
and-by-proportion, this measupd,d.it’
Q''and '
took' effe
'
6
’
t -in'the/latter half
of Juno, 1902, when the operati'bn'was :
Uhdergon@-Here :
follow the
places of the celestial bodies at that critical lunar-prdgress:—
215
Sun, Virgo 23°01'; Moon, Loo 5°33'; Mercury, Virgo 6°26'; Venus, Virgo
0°20'; Mars, Virgo 21°2'; Jupiter,, Gemini 16°3'; Saturn, Aquarius 25°
35’; Uranus, Aries 1305' ; Neptune, Aquarius 26C
I
4 ,.
The Moon is seen to be in semi-quartilo aspect with Mars; and
at the time of the lunation, the Sun, Mars and Mercury were all in the
Vlth house of illness. Between the times of occurrence of the 60th and
61st progresses there is a space of 714 hours. Then sayi As 714 .
447*
1::
365^:229 . Reckoning from November 9, 1901, 229 days we find that the
Moon opposition Sun (full moon) of October 4, 1846, measures to June 26,
1902.
At the author's fourth lunar progress, March 8, 1841, the Sun
was exactly in the place of Uranus at birth, and in opposition to that
of Mars, and in quartile to that of Saturn. My father was seized with
sciatica of so severe a character that it became chronic, despite the
skill of the eminent physician— Sir B. Brodie— who attended him, in 1845.
At my fifth lunar progress, April 6, 1841, the Sun was in trine aspect
with Jupiter, and in my sixth year (1846) my father recovered his health.
I
1
217
CHAPTER XXXIX
:dN 'TRANSITS: ' "
A TRANSIT,-';
astrologic ally speaking,' is-the passing, of the Sun,
Moon, or a planet -'over the :
place-~-degree andminuteof longitude-- of-a
celestial body-,- or the degree'in the upper meridian, at the moment of
birth.
... s '
Those transits which take place or or about the birthday-
anniversary— and more especially if the ceTestial body in transit hap­
pens to be rising, culminating, setting, or on the lower meridian at
the time of Solar return--— are the most powerful.
When transits are opposed in nature to that of the primary
directions operating at the sane time-, 'they can have but-/little effect.
Transits usually combine thfe influences of'
•
the. body in transit
and the one whose place is affect odi They sometimes hasten, o-r retard
the operation of a primary direction about to operate. For example, if
by primary direction,-the Sun is in conjunction, with Saturn, if a tran­
sit of.-Saturn over either the place of the Sun' or of Saturn at birth
takes place a few weeks' before the arc of direction is complete, such
transit usually brings'-to a focus the influence of such direction.
Transits over the ascending and descending degrees of nativ­
ities' in high latitudes cannot be relied upon, .'.except in the case of one
of the three last degrees of Virgo or one o
'
f the first of Libra rising.
T.he student is advised to look to the declination of the
transiting body at the-time of transit, because if'it differs widely
(by reason of the body having' much latitude, or such as is of opposite
name to that of the transitted body) from the declination of the body
over; which the transit takes place such transit is necessarily very
weak. If there is a close parallel of declination at the time of tran­
sit, the effects are greater.
Transits of the planets Saturn and Jupiter over the place of
.the Sun or Moon near the birthday anniversary usually continue in force
for a few weeks. Transits of Mars and Uranus, generally act very sud­
denly and .punctually. *
The transit of a superior planet at a time when it is
Mstationary,” is much more forceful than when it is quick in motion.
Thé second transit of a-superior planet after*-retrogradation
is usually much more powerful in its"effects--
than. the.'.first; .
When thè Moon has much latitude at birth, transits over her
place are of little effect unless the transiting body has latitude of
the same name and nearly as great. In all cases'the.: closer the ap­
proximation to the exact parallel of declination^.:thé -greater is the
effect of the transit. A planet in-the ascendant! or ;.Xth house, near
the. cusp,., at -birth,- is .more powerful i
n
.
; transit than when it is cadent,
or-far.,removed, from. one.of•the angles..
.
.
.
218
At th.e moment of my birth the Moon in Taurus 27°8’, had
latitude 4°59*1
S
T
» and declination.'24°23'N. On October 6, 1879, Mars
was stationary in Taurus 28°48'. My mother, who had been in a debil­
itated state of health for some months previously, became suddenly
seriously worse on the 9th and-died on October 1
4', 1879. Saturn was
•retrograde in Aries 11°41' on~thc'day. of bereavement, in opposition
to the degree ih the midhoaven.-of my nativity, Libra 10°. . :>
THS GMERAL EFFECT OF TRANSITS.— The following is a brief
sketch of .
.
t
i
i
e
' general..effects of transits when not .opposed in nature
to the'coinciding primary directions. .
TELE MOON’S TRANSITS.
The Î
) passing (at the Solar revolution) over her own place
at birth, and well aspected hy 9 or. 2
J
. or the © , denotes pleasant
journeys, good health, and peace of mind. If she be evilly aspected
by the infortunes, vexations, fruitless journeys, and annoyance from
vulgar people, may probably be experienced.
; The J
) passing; over the radical place of 5 , inclines the
native to travel, gives him active and profitable employment, and, if
he be a literary character, gain and.credit by his writings.' If, how­
ever, the Moon be ovilly aspected, the.reverse of these benefits may
occur.
Ihe .
j
)passing over the place of 9 is indicative of a pleas-
.urable time and gain through .the good offices of ladies and relatives.
But if was afflicted at birth, suffering in mind and body may result.
The ■D passing over the place of the © (at his revolution)
imports troubles and quarrels, with employers, or magnates (unless ex­
tremely, well aspected). The native may be disposed.to make changes; and
he may .suffer in his eyes. If. both bh.e luminaries be well aspected by
the. fortunes, he may gain preferment and comparative wealth.
The 3
) passing over the place of d , predicates trouble and
suffering in mind, and body. .The native will be involved in quarrels and
controversies; and will suffer-thx-o.ugh martial persons and affairs. He
must.be very wary of thieves, fire, and gunshot wounds. If d .was in
sextile or trine to either luminary at birth, and the employment of the
native of a martial character, less serious evils will result. If the
be afflicted at the. revolution, danger to. life is threatened.
The D passing over the place of % brings gain and an im­
proved state of. health; also friendship of rich persons, new friends,
etc.; in many cases birth of a child. .
The D passing over, the place of .
f
t brings sickness, sadness,
or danger of an accident (according to the position of h at birth). It
will be a bad year for .engaging-in building, mining, or any other kind
of speculations. :In some cases danger by water, or of imprisonment. The
wife or mother may suffer."
The D passing ov'er the place of i# brings sudden changes, and
generally a family loss. ‘In a-man’s nativity it frequently causes a
serious misunderstanding with his wife or sweetheart.
219- ■.
MERCÜiQf’ S TRANSIIS .
'* : 9 in.conjunction'with th-e'.-n©-(at the revolution) and well
aspècted, 'especially i f :stationary;- w ill- produce prosperohs ■
and active
employment, journeys, and litera cy distinction. I f a fflic te d , no good
can resu lt’, and •tÉe’ native, may/siffer. through knavery or through
attacks of press write’rs.
9 passing over the place of the D (at the Solar revolution)
w ill produce journeys, •and a busy .year.generally,.
9.. passing over his. own radical place., and' stationary, brings
gain, by 9 , men and-: a ffa ir.s,, journeys^ .trade, etc.
9 passing over the place of 9 ' inclines 'thé native to in­
dulge in: pleasure, "'the .society of lad ies, -music,. the drama, etc. He
may have a child born,-..
9 passing over thev radical, place of cf ,, and evilly., aspected,
; leads to evil, conduct; and produces, quarrels , ■
troubles- and lib e ls . I f
w ell aspected by the fortunes, less mischief w ill result, and the native
.may gain by martial pursuits. In either case he must beware of fraud.
• ’ 9 passing over the. radical place o f % gives honour, active
business, and some prosperity. A good year for lite ra ry pursuits.
, , 9 ,passing., over the .radical place of x will too often pro­
duce vexation, .deception., fraud, and consequent loss; unless 9 be well
aspected by the fortunes, in such case gain by Saturnine pursuits,
lands; "buildings,- br mines m a y !
result.
9 passing over the radical place of ¿
¿
I w ill not 'do any harm
unless he be a fflic te d , when mischief w ill arise through- ■• of
characters.
TRANSITS. OF IUS
9 in conjunction with:the 0 ,• at the revolution, w ill bring
■
honour-, pleasure, and the favour of women and' rich- persons. 'But i f 9
be e v illy aspected trouble w ill result.
9 passing over the radical place of the J
) brings gain and
favour of ladies of quality, and a pleasurable time. I f a fflic te d ,
however, extravagance and dissipation may result, especially i f the ])
was inlffy or- x at birth. • ' •
•:? passing;
-over the-radical place of -9 gives:gain through men
of science:
, ■litera ry persons, and by'trade; the favour of young persons
and ladies! '■
'■
'■ ■ ■
"
, . . .9 passing over the place of. cf, unless., well aspected, inclines
to dissipation, and suffering may result therefrom.
9. passing over the place o f 2
|
. renders the native jo v ia l, a
•fortunate during the ensuing year of his .l i f e . 'I f was angular at
birth,, or with the I) , this transit, will..'bring great, gain.
220
$ passing over the place of fj, and well aspected, m i l in­
cline the native to pleasure and1bring him gain-', ■
'
-But if ? be evilly
aspected, evil tendencies,'
'
'
a
n
d.loss or. ill-health will .result.
9 passing over the-place, oft#- ,.
’
unless, she be,'well aspected,
will bring troubles in love or matrimonial affairs,...
-
, .
. .
.
.
.
.
. TRANSITS OF EARS ... .
d in conjunction with the © (at 'the revolution) denotes
.affliction, quarrels, and possibly an accident accompanied with loss of
blood. The native should act. with great caution and prudence in every­
thing. The sentile or trine of Ears to the Sun gives k prosperous year;
to a monarch victory-over enemies,
’ d passing over the place of the D , causes'losses, quarrels,
ill-health to the native or to a female relative, and sometimes leads
him into bad courses. Travelling and active employment are also prom­
ised. The good aspect's of d to thè D , or to her radical place, prom­
ise activity, gain, and travelling; to a sailor or soldier honour and
.promotion, ' • - ’
■
d passing over the radical place of 5, unless evilly as­
pected, gives an active, busy:and tolerably prosperous year. If he be
afflicted, quarrels and loss are threatened, - .
d passing over the place of $ inclines the native to loose
.conduct,.and involves him in troubles and discredit;' and often ill-
health, too, if e
? was with or in «
f with 9 at birth.
d passing over the-place-of 2t will produce gain, and a
change for the better, generally, unless he be evilly aspected by or
-
- for, in-such case, quarrels with the clergy, or magistrates, will
result.
d passing over the place of often causes troubles, delay,
and difficulty in gaining employment, and ill-health or accidents. The
native’s father may suffer, also.'
d passing over the place of i
j
j brings sudden and serious mis­
chief, particularly if' $ was' in evil aspect with O , .D , ■ M.C., or
Asc., at birth. The nati ve'must' beware of accidents'. '
,■• " JUPITER’
S TRANSITS.
• ''
■’ ‘p
i in •
con junction':
or parallel declination with .
the © (at the
revolution), gives honours and gain from-superiors, according to the
social position of the native. To women such a configuration often
brings marriage, advandemen't‘
to the husband, or-birth of a son. But if
2[ be evilly "coniigùràtècì with the malefics.y evil -will result, such as
quarries with men in power, and a bad state- of health if the 0 be hyleg.
2J
. passing over the radical place of the D , or in conjunction
with her at the solar revolution, gives health of body, peace of mind,
increase of substance, honours, popularity, pleàsure, and birth of child.
2
1- passing over the place ;
o'
f Shows gain by 9 men and
■'affairs; augments religious feeling,:''and'inclines’
;
to studious habits.
2[ passing over the place of 9 gives mirth, pleasure, gain,
credit, and the favour of ladies of means.
221
2
J
. passing over the place of c
f gives new friends of a martial
eharacter, journeys, and increase of business. If badly aspected,
losses and troubles come.
2
1 passing over his own radical place, when angular, or in
good configuration with either of the luminaries, brings honours, new
friends, office or employment, advancement of reputation, and general
prosperity.
2
1 passing over the radical place of , if well aspected,
gives gain, peace of mind, and benefits from people and affairs. If
both 2J
.and T
j were badly situated at birth, no great good can result.
2}
. passing over the place of i
j
l promises unexpected and sudden
benefits, success in scientific pursuits, and travelling. But if 1
$
afflicted the O or D at birth, this transit may bring loss and trouble.
SATURN'S TRANSITS.
in«/ or parallel declination with the © (at the revolu­
tion) will bring disputes with persons in authority, loss of reputation,
pecuniary difficulties, and a bad state of health (if O be hyleg). To
a woman, this transit is of very evil import, for loss of her father or
her husband, or defamation of character, is threatened, especially if
be stationary.
h passing over the radical place of the D , or in <J with her
at the revolution, signifies danger in travelling either by land or
water; affliction of mind, body, and estate; and quarrels with persons.
A near relative (female) will suffer and may die.
passing over the place of 9 ,i if the latter planet was
angular at birth, the native becomes inventive, and prospers generally.
If weak, or afflicted, this transit will very probably involve the
native in quarrels with 9 and people; and illness may also result.
passing over the place of .9 brings trouble to the native,
and often to his wife, mother, or sister, also. He may also become
involved in some scandal.
passing over the place of 6 , and well aspected, gain by
martial men and pursuits result. If badly aspected the native will be
in danger from thieves, highwaymen, and quarrelsome persons.
passing over the place of 2J.brings the native into favour
with rich and powerful persons, merchants, or clergymen, and he will be
prosperous-
- unless 2
J
. was much afflicted at birth.
passing over his own radical place, and well aspected, de­
notes gain by houses, land, buildings, or mines. In some cases a legacy
is promised.
f
j passing over the place of $ , and well aspected, renders
the native ingenious, studious of occult sciences, and eccentric. But
if badly aspected a family loss is threatened, and other troubles, also,
may result.
TRANSITS OF URANUS.
1$ in conjunction or parallel declination with the q (at the
revolution), frequently signifies a family loss, pecuniary difficulties,
222.
o.f accidents. If O be hy&eg, ill-health of a peculiar character will
'result'. ' ...4 -
j . ' T
'
j
j
J passing over the radical place of. the D or in 'd with her
at the revolution, brings sudden changes, family losses', journeys, or
sudden removals. At the same time.,,it inclines the-native to investigate
. occult matters. •
:
.
l
j
l passing over, th.e plape.^of 9,inclines the native- to pursue
occult science; and if afflicted, brings troubles in.connexion-with *
affairs and employment.
I
j
[ passing over the place'of 9 brings troubles in love or
matrimonial affairs; ;
h~ (female) relative will suffer’
, and may die.
[
¿
I passing1
'over the place of' d brings sudden and serious mis­
chief; in. some cases, danger.-to life (if afflicting .the at same time).
i$ passing :over: the. place .of involves-the native .in dispute
with religious persons;-if well, aspoc'ted pecuniary:
gain may result.
j
t
j
l passing over the place of causes sudden troubles, and
often danger to the'father O r ’
a near relative.
r
j
l passing over his own radical place, in good aspect to O
or. , brings Sudden and unexpecte.d.„ben.efits. His evil aspects produce
troubles ,’family losses, and pecuniary difficulties. ,
THAN-SITS OE.NSFIUNE.
Neptune's chief effects seem to lie in the direction of CRISES.
Personally, the.transit of 'if over the opposition of the © in my nativ­
ity (Scorpio 18°5g-'), in 1883' coincided with the death of my talented
father, on'Kay 9th of that year; when that distant planet was in Taurus
18°31'. An annular'eclipse of.the Sun,.invisible in England,'took place
on November 10', 1882, ten hours after the'© had returned (on that day)
to his.place at my:birth, the great luminary, being then in / to 9 in
Taurus' 17°24’, and applying to the same -aspect.with Saturn in Taurus 23°
4', and being attended by <f in Scorpio. 26°43'. My 43d year was over­
clouded by the long Illness, of my father, and it was decidedly an un-
. fortunate one.
9 ind' or par.dec. O at the Solar Revolution presignifies a
critical time for health, if the © be hyleg at birth; otherwise, a
crisis in affairs, to advantage if the © was in an angle or trine with
"2
1. or-with 9 or % at birth. .If©, was in © , TU or X , a sea voyage
. soon follows.
• 9? in transit over the place of the. D at.birth inclines to
travelling;, and if D be hyleg debility of health is threatened.
W over the place of 9 pre-signifies restlessness, a change
of residence or occupation, and financial troubles.
9/ over 9 indicates for young people a'romantic attachment;
for others, some advantages attended with much expense and some domestic
- trouble or anxiety,'
y over <
S threatens (in© , TH, o r X ),_danger by water, in
travelling, and serious disputes.
'W over %, is advantageous— iinles 2|
. .was much afflicted by
’-
'or d"'at birth— and promises either advancement or increase of .income.
91 over threatens disasters; if in Libra, falls. Caution
will be needed in all new transactions. •
W over i
$
. pre-signifies accidents more or less serious accord­
ing to the relative position and aspects of these two planets at birth.
, Scientific men and inventors will gain .kudos under this influence.
CHAPTER XL
223
G N TH.E vEFFECTS' -OF-.
.
PR-1 iviAR.Y .D1RE.CT[ÖNS,..
. . .
. .
.
. .- ."IQnowledg© by faour sent
..Down fpoe, the sapyrean, -to forewarn •
Us timely. "---MILTON
A nativity Laving been computed and rectified if necessary, and
the primary directions for ,
a series of years having been tabulated, an
attempt must be made to forecast the probable effects of those directions.
The experience-.Pf centuries-has afforded us, some general rules to this end.
Directions may be..of a fortunate or an-unfortunate -character;
they may. b.a powerful.or feeble. The student has already learnt that cer­
tain aspects are fortunate, that certain others are usually unfortunate,
-and.-that conjunctions, and parallels are .convertible. He. has also learnt
.that certain.
planets and. stars possess good-influences, that ,certain
others... possess evil influences;and that some pf their relative positions
are more.
powerful than others. .He has now to learn that the strength or
weakness of every "direction" depends on the position of the body directed
in.the radix (horoscope), end .that,of .the planet, to which the moderator
(Sun, Moon, M.C. or*Äse.) is- directed.,.
• h .planet which is angular is more
powerfully'situat e’
d , .and much more: ppviarful.in airection, than another
planet cadent. A planet culminating is elevated above, and is therefore
more powerful than the., rest of the heavenly .bodies. A planet cadent is
not' so wreak if it be in“trine’with a moderator. The planet receiving the
application of the Moon (either by conjunction, parallel, sextile, trine,
or opposition) is more powerful than any other planet which is not angu­
larly posited. A benefic which may happen to be in close conjunction,
square, opposition, or parallel with Saturn or liars cannot be very effec­
tive for good by'direction-T-uhless.the. henefic. be angular and elevated
above the malefic'. In nativities those aspects, from which .the more
swiftly moving planets are separating are found to be much more powerful
than those .asp.ects which, they are ;
applying., -The semirsquare aspect in
directions.
is often found to be quits las powerful as the square when,
formed by a planet in one of the angles. One direction operating alone
(unless the.body directed be angular) cannot effect much unless it should
happen to be aided by a transit of a superior planet, or by an eclipse.
Events of the greatest importance usually-.occur under a train of direc­
tions.'' A train of good directions may bring (or -indicate), a n :
accession
of property;' but if an evil direction to the iiyleg fall near the same time,
ill-health may prevent .the enjoyment of the-benefit.
GENERAL RULES FOR".
JUDGING .
'
O
F THE PROBABLE -EFFECTS. OF DIRECTIONS
A good, (primary)., direction indicates, benefit _ox. gain by or
through the kind of'persons'..or. things signified by the body directed,
varied according to the .sign'‘
(and house, -in some cases), in which it was
situated in the 'radix.' An evil'direction' signifies loss, trouble,...or ill­
ness. In. the ca'se of young/children, the directions of .the M.C.», Sun, and
Moon in their nativities operate sometimes on .'their,parents. In. .the case
of ¿'married woman, directions pf the Sun affect..her husband, and vice
versa. . ' ... /
'The Sun' S’ft'ir'&'ctiphs affect the health,if .it.be hyleg,phonour,
advaiicement,' favour,of the great, the'father,, and',"’
.in the. case, of a .married
woiaah,"'h©f^h^^lld'
-
'
" ' ........
224
The Moon*s .directions affect the health (if Moon be hyleg),
sometimes mental as'well as' physical; the -
’
bátate,' family affairs, the
mother, sister, or,wife. ,.
The Ascendant's directs affect the personal health, the estate,
and employment.; :Ascendant do junction M.cl’
e'‘
éí,thíihhoincides with death of
a parent. "
TheM.C,' directions affect the business, profession, or employ­
ment, honour, credit, character; a
n
d
,
,
, in children's, nativities, the parents.
.
.
. .
* •l&E SUN’
S DÌIÌSCTIpNSY
The •© d or par.dec. D '— These'directions generally impair 'the
'health; the head,' eyes," and stomach often being affèctéd".Changes or
journeys take place, if the '
.
p be' angular end jiblT aspected at birth,
thè-nati ve may 'gain .preferment. If he' should 'marry," the marriage"will be
fortunate'or unfortunate according to the position of. the D a
.
t birth.
■ • or ¿I V .
— -Favour and friendship of rich and powerful. persons ;
advancement, journeys, change of residence',' or a .public appointment. If
5 be strong' at birth, the native may marry a wel}. endowed '
wife, or .have
a child b o m . ,' ■ ■ ,
© □ or j p — Troubles and losses, enmity of a'person in power
and-authority, conjugal, strife', ill-health,'mental añxipty, and’discredit
are pre-'Sighified. If 'either luminary be hyleg, an eruptive fever,'or
ophthalmia may attend. '
© d or.par; d'eC1 -A busy .period, profitable or unprofitable
according to the strength and. aspects'of -at birth. Travelling, writing,
and-speculating. 'The'birth of a child will', most’probably, take place.
If- ? be fortunate, gain,'fame, and prosperity’
.are proni sèd. . If unfortun­
ate’
, a lawsuit nay result. I f O be hyleg, a dangerous .illness 'is
threatened, accompanied, by cerebral symptoms .of a serious nature...
O * or A 5 ;— -Much business, travelling,'or change of residence,
and prosperity. Mercurial persons acquire fans and. .advancement under the
influence of these’directions.
O □' ? Fraud, fofgèry;, false'
accusations, 'lawsuits, or ill-
health are threatened,.' The native"should be wary in dealing with, strang­
ers, while this'
"
d
irecti on''is'in forcé.."
O d or par.'dec'. ? — A pleasurable, and profitable period., some
extravagance indulged in'. A .child may '
b
.
e b o m to the native. .
i
f
.
.
?
.
>
, Tías
angular and''v/eli; aspect ed in the nativity, prosperity,
.and favours from
ladies of wealth and position. Ladies frequently marry under this .influ­
ence. • . •
© ^ or A ? :
— -A happy and prosperous time;’indulgence in music,
the drama,.courtship, etc.; or-birth of a child. .Single ladies receive
offers of marriag'e, and '(if"their nativities promise marriage) often
marry under this influence. ... , •
9 -rrsThis brings losses,' extravagance, and in some cases -dis­
sipation, and consequent suffering; disappointment in love or.matrimony.
© V , par dec., □ orò0 .«" — Danger (if © he hyleg) of acute; .
i
fe,ver; 'wounds, accidents, haemorrhage, bites of dogs ,
■burns, scalderete.,
acCpidihg’ to the. position of a . The native should carefully avoid
quarr'éts and .disputès.j, pay .particular attention to,health, and.-beware of
fire'(and '
gunshot 'wounds if "d be in / ). . -
_ or A ch..— Military preferment, ,distincti®n;
,in. surgery, travel­
ling^; etc., according to the native's. position and- profession. :A monarch
may becòéie' involved "in tíár, and gain victories. Ladies £ec<
g
ive. offers
from martial men.
225
0 (
/ , par ..dec* * :orA 2
J
. -— Health.,
-.peace, of; mind , new friends., in­
crease of estate, honours, and general prosperity. lawyers, churchmen,
and merchants gain under-'this .influence. . Birth of a
- son may .take place.
In the nativities of -single women,' this influence- .often brings marriage
about.
© □ ■ o r i % -rr— rLosses:,-affronts., and ill-sufccess in legal proceed­
ings. '.Unless % :be afflicted in. the' nativity, not much harm, will be done.
In some cases, pleurisy or plethora results. . Some b-engfit. may.ba exper­
ienced eventually.-: v .
. - • . —
Q d par.dec. D-, or: <f; ---Affliction-of mind, body-, or estate.
The heart often becomes weak; and. its action ideranged, .under this in­
fluence. Affairs, go wrong- . If;^ be-ascending in .the horoscope, -there
is danger of accidents or wounds. .It is. an evil time fo,r travelling, and
in some cases there is a likelihood of shipwreck. Monarchs- are ..likely
to' suffer from 'conspirators and -assassins. : Tradesmen are liable to bank­
ruptcy. The father of the: native will suffer..
G f °r A b — .-Benefits by people, and affairs; a.good time for
.miners, builders, agriculturists,, etc, .If the nativity preanise a legacy,
it may now be obtained.
G d par.dec.. □ or «■ ^ -—Losses, troubles,- or ill-health, accord­
ing to the position :
of ¿
i
l in the nativity. .An unfortunate time for
change of residence, Journeying,-and speculating.. .A lady may ■lose her
lover or her husband, under this influence. - Neurasthenia.may result.
0 A 4I -— Travelling,'general prosperity, active employment;
gain by an invention .
G d par.dee, □ or" W -— A' crisis in affairs. If the © be
•hyleg, ill-health. Not a favourable time to-travel.
•© or A W' -— Benefits in business- or profession; travelling.
Q d par.dec*'any of the follovdhg Nixed Stars:
ALDEBAHhN-
- Soldiers and surgeons gain preferment and distinction; but it
is said to be not of.long continuance..
ANTA&3S— Military- preferment, accompanied-by danger. Never,injury to the
eyes,, and violent assaults ‘
are threatened..
A3ISTA-
- Advancement, wealth (if the nativity promise such), and happiness.
ASSFJJj
T-— -Acute fever, danger by fire., disgrace, imprisonment, .
calamities.
NEGHLUS-- Preferment, gain, ill-health if-G be hyleg; ..and the father
suffers. -(Lilly says he knows most of this to be true from; experience.)
E E MOON'S DIIACTIONS > - ■ '
• >
* • . «• ' *
]) d or par.dee. G — -Defoger of fever, or mortal illness, if 3
)
.be hyleg and if •
’ was afflicted at birth. Otherwise, mental troubles,
reverses, and discredit. But'if © be strong and well configurated.with
2J
. or f at birth,, a change for the better .will, talce place.
D or A 0 -
- New friends, preferment, profitable employment,
favour of rich la.dies and popularity. This influence often „brings marriage,
public employment, and travelling. To monarchs it brings renown, .honour­
able peace, victories, and valuable alliances.
-3
) □ or-^, 0 .— -This is always .evil,, producing mental and physical
suffering, converting the love of some woman to hatred; foreshowing
trouble or iliness-.of.wife, sister, or mother; and tending to produce dis­
sensions with-employers-v persons in authority, etc.
1 V or par.dee. f -
- Tnis brings a journey, or voyage by.s.ea,
especially if either D or. was in the -Hid..or. IXth hquse-,. at birth. It
brings an active, busy, and prosperous period, if $ be fortunate; if
226
unfortunate., loss by. fraud,, theff
t
.
, libels-, etc. If B be. hyleg and .9
afflicted,-, danger of disease-o.r.-ac.cident.
D ^ or A S — Success.; in literary.pursuits,: business, •accounts,
travelling, and litigation.: -At.child nay b
.
e born.. . .
D □ or / 5 •
— This brings danger to life if B be hyleg and 9
afflicted at birth. -It alvjays brings either .lawsuits-or controversies;
often loss of employment; troubles by children and young.
persons.,--.and
ill-success..in traveling.. •
. ..
D / or par.dec. 9 -
- A pleasant, fortunate., and happy period.
Marriage frequently occurs under--this influence. .
D or A -9 -— This influence brings-happiness¿ pleasure-seeking,
courtship, or matrimony, favours of ladies and rich persons,
. birth, of
children,, or marriage:
.of children. .To monarchs it brings, peace, new
allies, •etc.-
P □ or / 9 -
- This, brings scandal,- discredit; illness of wife,
sister, or mother; extravagance,..and- often personal suffering. If. the
native should marry under this- influence; he will not b-e very happy or
fortunate-in marriage. To;wam.gn, this often brings, serious internal
complaints.
.B / -
, par.dec-.-, Q or <
$ ---¿This ¿rings.-either, accidents or illness,
according to the position of d :t , Lo,ss by theft, fire.;, violence, or fraud
is threatened. If p be hyleg there is danger, and, if be in .a fiery
sign, it-may be by fire, wounds,-bites., or. gunshot; if ;in a watery.sign,
by drowning; if in an airy sign, by fall from a height; if in an earthy
sign, by fever, smallpox, dysentery., diphthericetc. The face and eyes
are sometimes injured under this influence. Marriage under it is unfor­
tunate. To ¡monarcas, it brings war.,.,and risk pf, -if not actual defeat.
D or A d1 -
- A desire for active out-door exercise, •sports,
horse-riding,, martial exercises, shooting, and.travelling. Men some­
times marry under this influence. L'onarchs increase their army or navy,
and may gain victories... . . . . .
B d par.dec. or A 2[, - Health of body and mind, preferment,
advancement, new friends; increase, of business, university.distinction,
the gaining of degrees or diplomas, etc,, according to the native’s pro­
fession and position. This.influence assists in producing.marriage.to
either sex. • '
P □ • or / % "---This-brings extravagant expenditure, and -dissensions
viith employers. -If the ¡
) b.e hyleg, •and ¿j
. afflictedat birth, ..pleurisy,
.etc- , may attack the native. Unless 2
J
. •be- much afflicted, no material
harm will be done in any way, and any present evil may eventually bring
recompense.
P <
¿ , par.decl.jQ , or / k ---This influence produces chronic
maladies, and danger to life if J
) \b« hyleg. Sciatica, atonic gout,
rheumatic fever, gastric fever, or mental .derangement may follow. In any
case, either pecuniary loss, or death of. a fair-relative results. The
native should act witn extreme caution in all his affairs-....... -
P # - or-A fj---- favour and friendship of old persons; a* legacy; or
success in building, mining, or faming. - - '' a «
P ni par.dec.-, □ , or / y- .
— -¿Danger of an. accideht-"-or nervous ill­
ness if P be-hyleg. Otherwise -danger t
-
o "the mother, wife-, or sister; or
separation from the wife. Pecuniary loss, ahd sudden troubles.
'
■ B % or A — A prosperous time -for -business. Q-ain in-an unexpect­
ed manner; -
A -jbúrhey if either p or ¿¿ be cadent. ' This influence often
brings, bn inclination to- study astrology- and occult matters.
P d , □ , or-/' W -— This brings a'c-risis', nervous depression, and
troubles.'
-
, — * •
' • :-
v -
•.
- •or-'A--"^--^A-favourable-timb, some travelling.-
227
D ¿ or par.dec. either.-oí'.the following ¡Fixed Stars*:
ALDSBARAN-
- Preferment" t
o
'
,soldiers and surgeons,
-
•attended with .danger.
ANIARiDS-
- Preferment"attended'with danger'and suffering. - .
ARISTA— Pecuniary gain— in.sorle, cases, wealth-honour, good .fortune in
pursuits of the nature .of ? , 'or ~ ■ •
NORTH SCALiS-
- Good fortune' and phel'eir.ient.
SOUTH SCALD— Misfortune, .scandal', or ill-health.
RBGUIÍJS— -Honour -and preferment ,
_ but attended with dahger if B- be hyleg.
The mother suffers, and may be in .'Serious danger.* ■ •
. . . . DIRECTIONS. OF THR:
M £ D - H S A m T
''
'
M.C. or par.dec. "O"-
- This b.rihgs honours, advancement, and
increase of substance. To single ladies, it often brings marriage.
. But if 0 .be .evilly, configurated" wí th tíüé- malefics, or in con­
junction with fixed stars of'a violent nature', this conjunction .brings
disputes and misfortunes, maybe of" a public -nature; and sOme;
.danger to
the mother. . ■ .. .
.H.C.sfc-. orA O ---This influence usually elevates the native’s
condition, and, when the nativity promises' it, brings-him: renown and
-great-advancement. It may benefit'the'native's parents-. ■ A public office
may be gained. To women, it brings either marriage or employment of a
public character. ■
1
.
1
.
C. Q or,<f Q -
- This often brings loss, of office «or-’
employment,
bad trading, disgrace; and, sometimes, bankruptcy and imprisonment. One
o
-
f .the parents suffers.. Harried worsen may lose-their husbands under this
influence. • -
L . C. or par,.dec. 1
) ---If D be strong and fortunate at birth,
honour, fame, advantageous changes, travelling, and popularity. Men may
marry under this influence.' But if D 'be weak'and evilly configurated,
losses, and unproductive journeys.or voyages will resolut; and the wife,
or mother, suffers. <
•
M . C. '
H
S
- or A T -Increase of substance, popularity, honours, gifts,
favours from women, active business, and travelling are' promised. To men,
it denotes marriage,, or birth .of children.
M.C. □ or f h ---This brings unpopularity, scandal, quarrels with
women, suffering of wife or mother, and family disputes-
- according to
the position of the .p .
M.C. c
/ or par.dec. ? ---If V be strong, gain by literary pursuits,
by travelling, by teaching, etc. Should £ be afflicted, libel, legal
difficulties, and unfortunate trading. • .
:
• M.C. % or a .
5 Preferment, honour,' and increase of business,
according to the strength and situation of $ at birth. Children are
.often first sent.to school, and young men to college, under this influence.
It often produces a'change of residence. -■ . .
‘
M.C. □'.or ? — ^Troubles and losses are indicated; and, also,
danger of lawsuits, unjust sentences, libels, "and false accusations.
Death .of a child frequently happens under this influence.
. , M.C. , par.deq. % or'A * — This-brings mirth, .gaiety, pleasure-
seeking, renewal of furniture, free expenditure, advancement in.,artistic
pursuits,-the birth Of a child, and general prosperity; Marriage fre­
quently happens under this influence. ■
.
. -
-
M
.
C
.
. □ or.V’
. ? -— Indicates"scandal, extravagance, and, in some
cases, dissipation. The mother, wife or sister suffers. .To. kings this
influence brings scandals, and wasteful expenditure.
M.C. •d, ,
' par.Q'ec.' □ or / <
$ This evil influence brings quarrels,
228'
losses, fires., thefts, or fraud. To mi litaiy men, and to surgeons, the <
/
.brings, advancement, tut it is attended, v.lth some danger... ..The parents
suffer. Misfortunes are sure to result, if. changes and speculations be
made, while this martial influence lasts. .
.
. .
M.C. f or A. d1 t t -This signifies an active, a busy, and a prosperous
period, especially to martialists. Military and naval .gien, surgeons, etc.,
gain preferment. Generally-a journey is taken, Monarchs increase their
■
armies,, and, if at war, they, gain victories.
M.C. d , par,dec. or A % ---Preferment, honours,, increase■of
wealth, benefits from persons in power, and general happiness and pros­
perity. In the nativities.of single women marriage comes to pass. To
merchants it brings increase of trade; to clergy, preferment; to lawyers,
advancement and high repute.. To a Crown Prince it may bring either a
regency or elevation'to the throne..'
M.C. □ or / % -T-This usually brings heavy expenses; but nothing
very evil, To monarchs it brings disputes about laws and. privileges, and
trouble with '
the"npbility and clergy,. .
. •
’
M.C. d , par.dec., □' or <
? ¡2 — — This'indicates family troubles and
^Losses, death of a parent, loss of reputation and credit, theft, fraud,
,'and unpopularity .Merchants and tradesmen lose heavily in speculative
'transactions. To monarchs it brings tumults,.discontent of the people,
the spread of Nihilism among their subjects, breach of treaties or defeat
in battle.
. M.C. % or A ? 2 ---This gives pecuniary.gain by farming., mining,
bviilding,. legacies, favour and friendship of old persons. • .
. M.C. d , par.dec. jj or f $ ---This is often attended by a sudden
death, in the family; pecuniary loss, and troubles of a strange nature;
disappointment in love..and marriage, or separation. . •
M.Q.. & or A ¿
¿
I ---Unexpected gain; sudden changes, or traveling of
.an aclvaptageous nature; favour and friendship of scientists.- Benefit by
an -invention or a discovery.- .
M.C.«*' , □ , or«° ¥ -
- Brings family troubles, unfortunate travel­
ling, and losses in business.
or A W ' — Aood business, advancement.
DIPECTIOIIS OF THE ASC2S52AET.
*
Asc.U' O -
- If O be strong and fortunate, gain by public favours
from great men, advancement,, employment, increase of reputation and credit;
at the same tine there may be some ill-health. To military men prefer­
ment is promised. To monarchs increase of territory or power-, and, when
at war, brilliant victories. But-if .© be afflicted by the malefics,
danger is threatened, the head -and eyes suffering) If © be in ^ with #
T
danger by fire, or fire-arms;- and accidents involving loss of blood.
Asc. 3* orA © -
- Health of body, peace of mind, favours from per­
sons .in authority, new friend.s, some elevation of rank, .etc,, according to
the native's social position. Uonen often marry,-or have a son born,
under this .influence. - .
Asc. □ .or«/* © -
- Diseasea..ac®ording to .the .sign occupied b y © .
Envy and. enmity -of persons in power; loss of -employment and credit;, danger
to the father; ,
-and, in some cases,- danger of imprisonment. Travailing;,
changes, and speculation should he avoided while this influence lasts.
■Asc. .
<
/
; or par-.dec. J
) --Changes -of residence, ■travelling by land or
sea, and ¡preferment, i
f
. S be fortunate-. ,Otherwise, adversity or accidents,
or danger by water.
Asc.- ,
3
* '.orA D '
• Aotive .,e»ploymsat, fri.endqhip of .great, ladies, pop­
ularity, general prosperity, marriage, birth of a daughter, etc.
229
Ase. □ pr^.-J?. .
.
.
— -Cp11tp9yersi.es,
. strife.» .conjugal, misery y divorce,
discord, jealousy, unpopularity, ill-health, intemperance, etc., according
to the position of''£•. JinTth? horoscope. A bad ■
%
ime, ,
fp;r;
.travelling by land
or sea.
> :Asc# ; or. par.dec-. -Change.-of-.residence,, e journey, active
business, a propensity to study, invention and/•writing--.-the results of
evihiefc-will b e fortunate.,Or ■unfortunate.,1according to the position of 9
at birth. If 5 be much afflicted, a dangerous accident.-, or serious
; attack of .illness,-is;-threatened.. ,
■
■
■
Asc. or A 9 -— Prosperity, active employment,
. travelling.; gain by
literary work, teaching or travelling; birth of-a child■or change of resi­
dence. ‘ : ■ ■
■ -
Asc. □ or ? -
- This influence gives, a .disinclination for. study,
failure to pass examinations at college; mischief by writing, pressmen,
and■
overwork ; diseases -of. the nature of ? or the planet with which he may
be. evilly configuratedj-anxiety about young-persors. To children this
influence often brings whooping-cough; bronchitis, or convulsions,.
Ase. ¿ ,par.dec.,- f o r A 9- -— This, influence brings, pleasure, gain,
new friends-, courtship, marriage,■birth of children; purchase of articles
of luxury , furniture, ornaments,.-etc., according; to circumstances. ■■
■
Asc.. □...Or. 9 --Brings, trouble in love and conjugal life, heavy
expenses, and, extravaganc.e; illness.of wife -or mother. >
-.-.Ase. ,:
pap. dec. , Q - or f „ - d . Accidents or diseases, according to
the position of Haemorrhage frequently results. Danger to a parent.
If •d be-in.'a'-.fiery sign, -acute fevers*. or accidents by fire; in an-«earthy
sign., danger of-.suffocati on,.,in ,
• smallpox or diptheria; in a sign of
human-form, :danger of homicide, or of. being.killed in a quarrel or .battle;
in a watery sign.; danger of death by drowning; -
in-an airy sign, danger of
a fall from a height, .or acute fever. •
. -
Asc.. A cf---This inclines the nat ive-,to-t ravel, shoot,.hunt,
fence, indulge in-martial exercises, ".enter the anay or navy; study medi­
cine, surgery, or chemis.try; .become an engineer, etc., according.to the
nativity,.. Women sometimes marry under this -influehee. • - . -
Ase. ¿ ,•par.de.c ^ or — -This is fortunate for. health'and
affairs. Prosperity, conviviality, nevi friend’
s, advancement,
.favours from
the great-, marriage,
- birth •
of 'children. If 2
J
. be-afflicted) .the </:or par.
dec., may bring a serious (but not fatal) illness, arising from some infec-
tionof the lungs, tlie liver, or the blood.-
.
' A s p . □ o r -
2}.- - A n indifferent state of healthy often due t.ò
plethora, .If 2J
. be afflicted’by ’
.
, danger'of measles, scarlatina,
smallpox, pleurisy, etc,.
.
.A bad time'to' dear With lawyers) Extravagant
'expenditure, and tots much conviviality, '
'.Asc, V , par. dec., Q .Or ^."h '--If. f
, be'oriental, a-dangerous
accident, or a broken.l i m b i f occidental,& dangerous chronic malady. In
some dases this is the beginning of some' form.of consumption*, in. others,
of melancholia. To_ women, dangerous’internal’diseases'; and disappointment
and trouble ih lovè' or matrimopy., :
may result if ^ afflictéd^ the '©-at birth
AsíÁ '■& or A'Jl -— Gain by eldèrly'persons’
, legacies,-mining,-building,
purchase or;sel®,of.houses, etc. ' ' ........
•!
Asc.’ '
, par,dec. D'or j»’
’jg-
- This brings sudden losses---either in
the' family or thè èstpte; tra.yellipg, removals and changes of- occupation;
or else' neurasthenia,' or an áccidept A ■
Asc. % or '¿± jg -
'
— Gain of an"’unexpected nature; ■fortunate journeys,
and active business; also a desire to spdy astronomy and astrology,
• chemis­
try, electricity,, etc. ' - ! • l
• Ast . ¿ , pai*, deci) q -;or ¿> ----Health weak-or else-an'accident.
•
No-long-journey-by sea:should be nade.
• Ascii '
•
& :
or " Á W:’
— (Jains, travailing for-pleasure.. - ...
' DIRECTIONS OF THE SUN.-AMLMOON TO. THEIR GDN;'ASPECTS.
'The O- to.his- own •
$
£
: tends t
o
", experience, of preferment,
,honours,
fame arid general:
prosperity.. -
The © to his' own parallel brings pr eferment;,--friends; among the
great, and success.' • . ■.
' .-urn . •
'
The 0 to his own. Q , sorrow, sometimes 'ill-health.,;and losses;
a desire to depart a
nd'- be at rest. v ■ o .
The D to her own parallel:, changes'and. travelling..-
The D to her own losses and troubles, enmity of the vulgar, and
disadvantageous.'changes, ' ’ .
'
•
' - The student should bear in mind.'that the GUTERAL nature o.f an
expected event must be estimated, firstly, by the nature of théáplanets
operating by direction;-secondly, -by the'moderator'affected by.the direc­
tional influence; thirdly, by-the- strength of the moderator and'planet
directed, in the nativity; fourthly,- by the'sign and.mansion in which the
direction falls. The student'should remember, also, that.it is unsafe to
judge of the probable effects of' any direction acting AIDNE without taking
into consideration other directions that, may fall within Io or 2° of its
arc, and- without attending to the Solar revolution., an .eclipse or a luna­
tion, Which.may coincide and so assist or counteract it. to some extent.
wIt'is-the-neglect of these'precautions xvrote'Zadkiel I, »that malees so
many failures -on the part of'even, otherwise tolerably good astrologers,
fold it is the labour, the skilll., the persevering industry, required to
accomplish this'true and perfect reading of. the heavens'which renders the
doctrine of nativities one of the. vastest and most comprehensive under-
.takings which the mind of man can grasp' and understand. Let. not the
student, therefore, play with .this mighty matter,-, but•either resolve to
•abandon the research,, orlotherwise .
.
t
o
. .approach, these...-.portals of .the
temple of truth, with-a resolute; will to. conquer the obstacles that beset
his path, and .finally to take, hi-s seat among the niphes. that.-contain the
names'.of a thousand- great and glorious lovers of truth, real philosophers,
friends of mankind, and earnest, servants of the Living God.”
v
/ : .‘ ' ■' ■
In the expex-ience of the.author, he has. known’in private life., events
to. correspond very closely both in their nature and" in the periods of their
occurence, te prediction. For oxam-ple:' A lady who;.was born-on November
14, 1840, §t .12:05 a.m., in latitude 51°28'’N. Her:nativity was rectified
by the author' by taking Aec. é 4 ■zod. 15Q28*‘for her sisterts heath , in
Kay. 1856; and her marriage topic place as predicted'in Tune 1874, under the
direction- . par. .i
n
.
.
. 3 3 ° 2 V ‘
.-In thisgca'se’the R*A. of the M.C. was
(as rectified.), 83°59'. Here ’
’
is another example: A lady who was born
on. April”14", 1845,. at. 11:35 p.m., in latitude 52°58' N. Her .nativity was
rectified,, .and her marriage' took'place in' the vexy month foretold, viz.,
July 1824 / under..Asc. % zsd... 'Sl°18r, assisted by other directions.
As Ptolony'said;— “ '
*A skilful person, acquainted wi'th the'nature of the stars, is enabled
to avert many of their (evil) effects, and to prepare himSel'f for these
effects before they arrive.” Again; WA sagacious, mind improves the
Operation of .the heavens, as a .skilful farmer, by “
cultivation,
' improves
’
nature.”
In regard to diseases/"j^olemy says;-—
■ »Should -a. disease begin .when. the.1
,
loon may h.e in „
a Sign occupied at
the birth by some malefic, or in. quart’
i le^r 'oppps'itioh. .t.d,.any s
.
u
-
c
h-sign,
&
■
'S '
231
&$v
such disease will be n
i
6
!
s
t
'
;severe; and if the malefic also behold the said
sign it m i l be dangerous. On the other hand there will be no danger if
the Moon be in a place held at the time of birth by some benefic.”
People coimonly observe that one evil seldom comes alone and
this is frequently due to the combined effects of evil directions and
eclinses.
In the appendix will be found a rule for computing the ARC OF
DURATION in the cases of certain directions of the luminaries. Rapt
parallels and zodiacal parallels often continue in operation for many
months, and sometimes for several years. The rule referred to will enable
the student to gauge very nearly the period of time over which the direc­
tion may Expend its force from first to last contact.
At page 191, in the nativity of the Late King Edward VII, the
Sun’s limb first reached the parallel in Capricorn ll02'25n , and the last
contact Was made in Capricorn 16°19’24w , the Sun’s centre forming the
parallel in Capricorn 13°55’37’
’.
The three arcs of direction aj?e>Respectively:---
dun paf, Saturn first contact Capricorn ll°2’25w , 59°36’llw .
" « * dent re . . . . « 13°55’37", 62°37’30"
" " " last contact . " 16°19’24", 65°6’27w
Then, 65°S’27" minus S S ^ S ’ll" gives- the arc of duration of
this parallel of the Sun with Saturn as 5°30‘16” = five years and a half.
The working given in the foo-note at p.192, is quite correct,
as regards the first contact of the Sun’s limb with the parallel. This
was the most powerful of the three arcs in Caprioorrius, and it depressed
his Majesty's health, and brought a narrow escape from serious or fatal
injury on board a yacht; and the first contact in Sagittarius, in 1871,
brought enteric fever, which very nearly proved fatal.
FOOINOTF.
■
J
w
*
.■
' 1. If in directing the Moon with latitude in the zodiac, to the
conjunction,, oi a planet if she have latitude of an opposite nature to that
of. -pldhet, at birth, so that the difference shall amount to 5°, such
r direction’is weak. In the case of the opposition, if the latitudes be of
the--same .name, the "direction is weak, and vice versa.
4
* ,
i *
j
i *
• »
• )
\ i ; .
î *
J
*♦;•**•• r
«
r*
•
i
>
CHAPTER XU
QN THE PRACTICAL USES OF ASTROLOGY
233
wIf Astrology be true, it is a useful Truth."— De Morgan
That the Universe is a concrete reality, and that we are in direct
relationship with every part of it is a truth, Astrologia sana is in prin­
ciple demonstrably true, or at least based on truth, for there can-be nothing
extravagant in believing that ethereal vibrations extend from the Sun to the
great planets, and from planet to planet. All space is a network of inter­
acting forces.
■
' y y The central fact of Astrology is the law of Nature that every
celestial body in the Solar System operates on the Earth and its inhabitants,
and on the atmosphere. This is a direct consequence of the philosophic truth
of relativity,
"To belong to a whole is to have all other parts of the whole in
essential and potentially effective relation with oneself. And as belonging
to a subordinate whole (our Earth) we participate in the influence of other
subordinate wholes upon that. In like manner, as a consequence of the same
universal truth of relativity, the things of time must be essentially connect­
ed v/ith the things of space. Thus Astrology is, in principle, demonstrable
A PRIORI. One remark as to the unitary double meaning (or the distinctly-one
meaning) of the word ’principium’— "beginning,’ and ’principle.’ The prin­
ciple in logic is the beginning in time; therefore the related totality at
the beginning of anything (its ’horoscope’) will contain and show the ’prin­
ciple of its course and development.’ The principle of genethliacal astrology
is that Man is the microcosmic representation and correspondence of the
macrocosm. As the latter in its external aspect, is spread out at the
moment of birth, so if we have the science, we can read the (general) char­
acter, tendencies, and ’accidents’ (in the literal and more comprehensive
sense of the terra) "which will become manifest in the life of the newly bom.
And as time is related to space, so are the larger to the lesser circles of
time. It is upon this relation that the possibility of ’directing’ depends.
The day is the year writ small. The single degree (or approximate diurnal
measure of zodiacal progress) represents the circle, or larger day, the year."
So wrote the late C»C. Massey.
Science accepts the view that the Earth is an electro-magnet so
rendered by the current of electricity emanating from the Sun, which the
Earth, in her axial revolution, is continually winding upon herself. Other
members of the Solar system cannot differ in this respect. 'This being the
case, when observers find that certain terrestial and atmospheric disturb­
ances constantly coincide with the combined force of the planets exerted in
a line against the Earth-— >as at a Solar eclipse, and at mutual conjunctions
and oppositions of the major planets-— there is nothing either unsciaitific
or extravagant in believing that such coincidences may be related as cause
and effect.
As Mr. 1
7
. Buist Picben has said:-
-
"In constitutional disease a veritable world of forces are in dis­
order, and the products of disease are all results of morbid motions. The
human organism is constituted of twenty-one different systems of forces,
arranged into three groups of seven each, interacting ad infinitum . . . .
*
234
• i ' ¡ n l i i i
The compositions of mqleeular forces in.the' organism, ¡are •incalculable.
Instead of representing them by the’
Vimple combinations of molecular and
atomic motion that may occur .
i
:
q a pool of water, there is reason to believe
that they are more justly represented by thé moledular and atomic action of
all the stars in .the heavens . . . . The stability of health.is in the ratio
of the stability of'equilibrium'Of the complex normal motions of the organism
under adverse influences."*' ‘ '
.
.
. * Astrology is rejected by'the'scientific world (without any patient
and thorough examination of it )'as abisured'and superstitious. • It is anathema
to m o d e m science*. No "scientific authority" accepts the suggestion ■
’
•that the
proper way of dealing, with the problems of astrology is not to theorise about
and condemn them, but to investigate'them by the'aid'of well-atifèVfced facts.
Such'an idea seems to be quite foreign to■the' habits of■thought-of "oiir -
scientific opponents. As the late t)r. Richard Garnètt wrote:— -"The study
of facts and the observation of Nature must always be stronger than-any '
.abstract reasoning; and the investigation of the arguments brought against
astrology will disclose a.great reluctance on the part of the objector to
resort t o .
the testimony of facts,'and a thoroughly unscientific habit of
mind." ' '
'Jell might M. Ferdinand' Brunetiere"5-have declared not-long' ag;o
that "Science is.b a n k r u p t a n d "if not totally bankrupt it is virtually
insolvent. The physical or natural Sciences promised us to suppress mystery.
Now, hot only have they not done so, but we see clearly that they have never
shed a ray of light upon it. Jhey are' powerless to adequately state the only
questions which concern us— those which relate to the origin of Man, to the
law of his conduct and to his future destiny! 'The unknowable surrounds us;
and wé cannot' extract from the laws of Physics, or from the results' of
Physiology, any means of knowing anything'about it. . . . Science has lost
its.prestige, and Religion has conquered a part of its own." In the present
year, 1911, M. R. Legendre in the course of his' lecture at the National
Museum for Natural History, Paris,' on "The Physiology of Sleep," admitted
that it is impossible to give any exact definition of^sleep, which must be
distinquished from narcosis, lethargy,' and hypnotism.* • ■
;;-
Astrology also'has reconquered part of its own. If anyone doubts
this let him ponder over the fact that at the Oxford-Congress-, September 18,
1908, M. Saloman Reinach, one of the very first rank of savants and scholars,
'who presided over the important Section 6--Religions of the Greeks and
Romans— insisted that:—
"The-question-is-rife: That is the bearing of primitive ASTROLOGY
and star-worship on the formation of Oriental and Greek •
myths? Vie may, for
the moment, answer by a non liquet, but it is CERTAIN that the learned work
of Prof. Boliche Leclerq- on Greek Astrology,' the-publication of forgotten
astrological' treatises by Prof. Ciimont,-and his admirable-lectures at the
College'de-Prance, •where1
-the religious importance' óf Astrology has been-'so
forcibly emphasized, cannot fail to make us once more turn our eyes to the
starry heavens, after we have, perhaps, dwelt too exclusively on the earthly
and psychological elements of'cult and myth." '— ' •
■Yet Science, in this twentieth-century"bankrupt" ór at least
-"virtually insolvent" as it is,
-rejects' with scorn-and contempt Astrologia
sana.' ■ ’' ' : ; r :
235
:-'It'-may well be ¿asked- ’
¿'Jhat is -3ei<sice?" ;
;
that it'is so arrogant ■and
contemptuous.''-Here‘
is'-tJ3e;'eiefiiiiii6n- of''-G,''H*;iGVj'es, who in his day was •
■regarded a
s
-
' an authority-oxi Science, ■
presented'hy film in 'his•‘
‘
Aristotle” ?—
: ''Science is the’
-'systematic' ¿¿-'ordination•of--the faets of co-exist­
ence-and succession»” " ’ " :
■ It is the parrot-like cry that -astrology is an ■"exploded" super­
stition. So that astrology has been "exploded" by "the systematic co­
ordination of the facts of co-existence and succession"— which, wrote R. T.
Morrison,- is about "as clear1as -mud in a~wine-glass." Arid none can tell v±lo
"exploded"'astrology'neither-’
point to "the work-which exploded it! :
As a distinguished physician and philosopher has written:— "There
is one word in particular against which '
i t i s 'necessary at the present day
to be on our guard, if we would preserve our independence of character and our
peace of mind— the;
word ’scientific’
-
.
' '-To be deemed sci entific- is to have
found ■
salvation--fr'om-'the pri-'he-ring 'uprrards. '-The-first thing about the•'■Word
'scientific:' is that it has no absolute -meaning whatever; it- is'simply rela­
tive. 'It-is'rightly used'-'fo"deser-ibe -any method or action'which is in -aceord-
ance with-the laws -
6
'
f the-'universe, so far- as'they have Peen at présent -
spelled out in thè' department -
t
:
o which thé matter described' belongs.- .'But as
we are'every-day learning, more and more'-'about these laws,- -it -follows 'that-'
vihat is truly scientific today may, -in the light of some-'new-discovery-, be
utterly unscientific tomorrow. '
- The next^- thing to be-noted -is that the word
•is apt to be used by' each person ■from-'the standpoint of his ow
n
. position' in
science; and-thus the Tower of Babel- episode comes to be enacted over again
in another sphere. Row, if it could'-always be borne in mind that the word
’scientific’ is a purely question-begging term unless it is (either explicitly
or implicitly) qualified by a statement of the precise sense in which it is
used, and óf the personal equation-of him who-'uses it, thè occasion of a vast
amount of personal' bitterness and-misunderstanding would ’be got-rid-o f.M
®
All things tend to one conclusion— a Great First Cause' lino in wis­
dom rules'"the Universe. Yet i n -1871, the President of the British Association
for the Advancement of Science, declared- that great' masses move through space
"without intelligence directed to prevent' their collision."- This atheistic
and absurd idea he borrowed from Laplace. • -
That.Prescience is useful’-was shown by-Claudius Ptolemy in his
■
'TSTRABiBLOS', -eighteen centuries ago. He declared- that "prescience by astrono­
my is possible under certain adaptation, and that alone- it will afford pre­
monition, 'as far as symptoms 'in the Ambient enable it to do so, of- all such
events as' happen to men by the influence of the .Ambient . . Man -is sub­
ject not only to events applicable to his own private and individual nature,
but also to others arising from general causes. He-suffers by pestilences,
inundations, or conflagrations-, produced' by certain" extensive changes' in the
Ambient, and destroying" multitudes at-'once; since a'greater and'more power-
"ful agency must always absorb and overcome one that is minute- and weaker."
My-forecast (published irr-October, 1908)- of shocks of earthquake
in Italy, etc., -about the'tenth 'degree of east longitude, about the 25th and
30th' of December,.'190&,'‘
led'threw heads" of'families to" ask me if I ;apprehend­
ed that sueh seismic phenomena'would be''so serious' as; to" render'it unwise to
spend the winter in Italy or Sicily. I replied that'-they1should avoid both
Italy and Sicily— the' latter because Messina is..-relat.ed t
o
,
. Scorpio the sign
occupied by:liars-(àt .thé winter- solstice)' in..semivquartile (45°) aspect ■
viith the Sun, the great .luminary being also-'in -quadrature- with-. Saturn.; .
-
-
A
s
they had faith in the ancient science, they followed my advice, and took
their families elsewhere, fox* that -winter (1908-09.),.' and on-the occurrence of
the awful earthquakes of December 28, 1908, which destroyed Messina.-, -and-
shook Italy and vicinity from the eighth to the fifteenth degrees of east
longitude, my correspondents wrote warmly thanking me. for m y forecast and
advice. ' ■1
1 :
' ' •
: Div S. wrote (in the'spring of- 1908) a letter to me in which-he."
said: nI am. studying-your treatise on Medical Astrology .in your Text Book,
and find it a great help in practice. I firmly believe that planetary action
'has,'-besides'the magnetism of the earth,-' all; to--do with .the .health and career
of terrestrial beings as well as with' mundane a f f a i r s .
.
Some-'years ago, in the course of a .
.
long’ series of-lessons in com­
puting arcs of primary direction, four evil.ones were found., to- be about to
take effect in my pupil's nativity. They were Uranus "conjunct' Mercury, zodiac
48°0'', Uranus square-Moon zodiac 48°4,,'M.C. conjunct Uranus- 48°14', ,an4;Sun
parallel Saturn zodiac 48°26'. It was pointed out to my friend that this
train of primary directions presignified danger of.losses, and personal danger
by a fall or by an explosion. On reflection, m y friend said that- he would
have an old boiler at his works examined. The -examination was.ordered and
promptly made, and a serious defect was discovered and repaired. -As my friend's
office was directly over a part of the'boiler, in question, and. as he passed
several hours in that office daily, for five days per week, he was.running
considerable risk of his life. The directions had their effect' in weakening
liis health, temporarily, and in a serious-loss of money. '
A Scottish gentleman who was born when the ICoon was in:conjunction
with Mars in Cancer, in the 'eighth house, and Jupiter close to-the upper
meridian, had suffered seriously in health, and had been very unsuccessful in
his profession, in Scotland, up to the- time when he began the study of the
Placidian system of directing. He was advised to leave his native country
and come south, to an English town in adirection pointed out. He did.so,
under the direction, in his -
nativity, of Sun parallel Jupiter,, and recovered
his health and prospered well.
• On May-24, 1888, at -5:45 p.m., in the City of London, the author
was asked by a scientific friend (who. had studied, astrology under, his' tuition)
whether-he might win an action in the Court of Appeal, if he. decided: t
o
-
,
,pro­
ceed against the directors'.'of a firm for infringing his patent rights»--After
•careful consideration of the primary directions, then operating!in-the nativity
of my pdpil-')— that'of Moon, seartile Mundo,-'the Moon occupying the tenth'.house
at birth, being the. chief one— , and finding the figure of the heavens-drawn
for the momen't of ■consultation, also very favorable to success, I-gave r
a
y
'
■opinion that my good friend.would win on the.-appeal. Thenaction was .tried by
■three judgesin- July 1888, who allowed the appeal, and;, awarded-, to t
h
e
.
-
,plain­
tiff costs on the higher scale. The plaintiff's solicitor was very doubtful
indeed o-f success-in the' CoUrt.of Appeal, in view bf having lost the first
trial. It m a y b e mentioned that my friend had telegraphed, me-.to, come, to
his office', but I-had started, for the city more than -half-an-hour-before;his
•telegraia was .delivered to my house., I called at:his -officq. only, on intuitive
'perception-that he wished to see me; and I had-neither heard, .
n
o
r
.
, read .
.
o
f the
237
first trial, and was unaware that he was in so anxious a state of mind— this
was a pretty clear case of telepathy.
With regard to surgical operations, Claudius Ptolemy wrote "Pierce
not with iron that part of the body which may be governed by the sign (of the
zodiac) actually occupied by the Moon" (at the time of the operation)— to
which may be added, specially if the Moon be in conjunction, quadrature or
opposition with Mars, Saturn, Uranus, or Neptune at the time..
This precept can be followed in major operations which admit of a
few hours' delay, when evil planets are predominant and afflicting the Sun
and Moon.
When a student of surgery and medicine, I well remember a case of
ovariotomy performed by a skilful surgeon at one of the great hospitals of
London, in the afternoon of December 13, 1865, when the Moon was in the sign
Scorpio 2° and applying to conjuhction with Saturn in S°37' of the same sign.
The poor woman died on the following day, Ovariotomy is a very serious
operation, and it is often performed with success; nevertheless, it should be
delayed when the Moon is afflicted and passing through either Virgo or
Scorpio.- It would be better to run the risk of being deemed superstitious than
to neglect an astrological consideration which might give the poor sufferer
a better prospect of recovery from the shock of a serious surgical operation.
The dominion of the Moon in the human body as she passes through
the twelve signs of the zodiac is as follows:—
In Aries (0° to 30° of longitude) head and face; Taurus, neck and
throat; Gemini, arms and shoulders; Cancer, breast and stomach; Leo, heart and
spine; Virgo, abdominal organs;: Libra, loins and kidneys; Scorpio, reproduc­
tive organs and bladder; Sagittarius, hips and thighs; Capricornus, knees and
hams; Aquarius, Legs and ankles; Pisces, feet and toes..
Jerome Cardan, the celebrated physician and astrologer, was sent for
in the year 1552 by the Archbishop of St. Andrews, whom he cured of a dangerous
disease which the distinguished physicians of his day failed to cure and pro­
nounced incurable. Cardan's astrological skill enabled him to succeed in this
inveterate case wherein other physicians less skilled both in astrology and-
medicine had utterly failed to effect a cure.
In the treatise on Medical Astrology this very important subject
will be more elaborated.
FOOTNOTES.
1. Vide Letter in LIGHT, January 1, 1898, re-printed in STAR LORE, February,
1898.
2. "On Physics and Medicine," HOMOEOPATHIC WORLD, July 1897.
3. The learned editor of the REVUE DE3 DEUX M0NDE3.
4. This lecture was reported in full in the REVUE SC1INTIHIQDE, June 17,1911.
5. Vide STAR LORE, January 1398.
% :o
U^v.
<
í
:: r
259
APPENDIX TO BOOK I.
TO REDUCE'MEAN'TO SIDEREAL TlWiE
. Hours Ivlin.
Add '
..'Sec. 'Min,
A dd'
, :
Se'Qi Mih;
'Add
'Sec. Sec.
Add"
Sec. •
1 0 9.86 1" 0.16 " 3.1 5.09 ■ 2- ' 0.01
2 0 19.71 2 0,33 32 '5.26 6 0.02
3 . 0 29,57. .
.
. .3 .
.,0.49 33 5.42 9 0,03
. 4 ■
"0 39.40,1 ’4 V 0.66 . 34’" ■'5.59' , 13- ' 0.04 ■
5 0, .49. # 5 -
■ 6.82 ' 35;
. 5.75 17 0.05'
. . '6 ,0 59.14 . '
6- 0.99 -; 36 5.92 ’ 19 .0.05
7 . 1 9.00 l" 7 1.15- 37 '6.08 ' 20 0.06
8 1 18.85 . " 8 1..31' ’■ 38 ‘'6.24 23 0.05
9 .1 2,8.71. ,9 1.48'. 39 .6
'
.41. *°;
24 : 0.07
10 1 38.56 ' 10 ■ 1.64 ' 40 '5.57' ■ 26 0.07-
11 48.42 . .11 - ■IJB X . ;41 \ .'27: 0,08...
•12 ;1 ■
■58.28 ■■ 12 . 1.97 . 42 ) 6.90.. .•28 0.08 •
- 13 • B
:
-
'
- 8,13 - 13 2 .I4: 43, .7.07:; :3l .
,0*08
14 ' 2 17.99: 14 . 2.;50 ■44 . 7.23 , ,
• 32 . Q.OCl .
15 N-- 2 27.85' • :is. 3.46 '45 -..7.39- . 34 - .0.09
16 •
' -2- - 37.70 .16' 2.63 46 .■7.56 35. 0.10
•17' •
• 2 47.56 ' :'17 -
2
.
.
;
7
9
- •47 7.72 38- 0.10
18 2 57.42 18 2.96 48 7.89 39 6.11
19 3 7.27 20 3.29 49 8.05 42 0.12
20 3 17.13 22 3.62 51 8.38 45 0.12
¿± '3 ‘ 26.99 •
' 24 3.95 53' 8.71 48 0.15
22 3 36.84 26 4.28 55 9.04 51 0.14
23 - 3 .46.70. .
. •28 4.61 .57 .9.37 55 0.15
24 .
3 ■ 56.56 30 4.93 • 59 : 9.69 '.59 ' 0.15
ON THE USE OE IOGAPJTHii6 IN "ASTRONOMICAL CALCULATIONS.
Logarithms were invented by Baron Napier,'of Lerchistoun, for the
purpose of facilitating hiastronomical calculations, and for astrological
purposes. By. means of ;
logarithms-•
multiplibation is"performed by' addition;
division by subtraction; proportion, or the rule of three, by"adding three
numbers together; and roots are extracted by a very simple process.
(Note.-— In working by. rule of:three.,, the ternary proportional logarithm
of the first term must be taken from 10.00000 to find its Al&THMETICiSL
COIv'iPLSMMT. Where the index— in the sum— exceeds 10, this amount must be
rejected.)- ■
• . .
. .
.
.
.
The best Tables of Logarithms are those of Callet and'Bruhns, the
sines, cosines, tangents, and co-tangents being given to seconds— Chamber’
Tables give them to degrees and minutes (A set of these logarithms may be
secured from the. National' Asir&logiiC.al Library, .1520 2.8th Street, SE.,
Washington .22, D.C.,
.
.together .
.
w
i
t
h
-
. Ternary .Proportional Logarithms— to
degrees and" minutes.) . . •
• ..
. •
By means of the following formulae a map of the heavens 'may' be'
drawn for .any part of the world .
f ; .
240
POHvICJIA
Oblique Ascensioni;giy;
èh: .to .find Bclipi;i;c.longitude.
1.--Log. cosine Obi. Asc. from the first point;..of T or £i {or log. sine
Obi. Asc.- from ò or. t5
' } plttS log. cotangent .lati or ,
-pole of house equals
log. cotangent /.A. (A table of the Poles of the Houses will be found at the
end of .
tints Appendix* .-.The pole of .the Ascendant, (or first house) is always
the latitude ctf birthplace.;) .
2.'
-
-
-Jhen, if Obi.,.
Asc.,.be less,-,than- 90° oj>.above 270° A plus 23°27 '
(the obliquity;!pf the, ecliptic)equals / B. icf*o"bl. Asc. he more than 90°,
and les"s:-.than 270°, .the difference, of £ -A and g,3.°27' equals B. (i'Jhen the
birthplace is in southern latitude the -obliquity-of the ecliptic must be
added to, ^ A when the. Qbl. Asc. is-.greater than 90° and less than 270°; and
when the .Obi, Asc. Is .less than 90°, or greater than 270° the difference be­
tween A '.and .the obliquity ;of the. ecliptic must be taken to find J_ B. )
3. — 'And log. cosine /_ B (a .c .} plus log. •
cosine /-A plus- log. tangent
Obi. Asc.' from, qr or x (or;log. cat'angéiift longitude Q 1 or -
t
5 ) equals log.
tangent longitude from If or (or log.-cotangent longitude © or ).
(Note.— If ^ ¿ exceed'90°, tage log;; siné of its'-excess, instead of log.
cosine,busing the arithmetical complement (a.c. } -of the-log.-, as usual, in
the first term.'. If ¿'B should exceed 90°, thè' longitude will fall the
reverse way from the point .from which the Obi.'Asc. is -taken*-)
•
• k M tola 2.' ';■■■_
.
. The.Oblique.Ascension being exactly 90° from T or fi , to find
the degree ascending. ,
, . . '
Log, sine .of the.obliquity of.the ecliptic for the given year plus
log tangent latitude of birthplace equals log. tangent'of the ascending degree.
POmiULA 3.
.y
, .To find Ascensional Difference,. . . . . , *
;Log..tangent lat. of birthplace plus log. tangent déclination of the
-heavenly; body equals ,
Iog,f
.sine of the ascensional difference. “ '
' W Æ JLÂ. 4. '
,.;The Declination and .Ascensional Difference being given, to find the
Pole? .
. . . .
. .
'1 • .
Log. cotangent declination plus log. sine asc. diff. equals-log. tangent
of. the .pole. . .
.
.
.
.
- ’... ‘ PO'silD'LA 5. ' ’
.To find the Circle"of Position. (The circles of position of all
bodies between the meridian and horizon are analogous to the circles of
latitude, being small circles of the sphere, having their--planes parallel
with-the plane of the meridian.),
1.— Say: "As the semi-arc is to 90°, so is the meridian’distance to
the circle of position from the meridian."
241
2.— Then, the circle of position, token from the meridian distance gives
■the ascv-d'iff. under;.the pole, • •
■
- ; j -•
, FORMULA. 6. " "
The Sun’s Longitude being giyen;, t.p,:
f-ind#his Righ’
t Ascension.
„•Log.' cosine Of'the obliquity of-the ecliptic^ plus, log., tangent longitude
from T or (or log. cotangent longitude Q or d$ )
,equals log*, tangent
R.A. from T or û (or log. cotangent R.A^.iror.iO or-/”^ ). *
;
-
FORMULA,7
.
' -1'- !
1 ;
;
The Sun's Longitude .-being.given, to. find hi s
'
.Declination.
Log* 'sine' of -O.E. plus .-log« sin© longitude, from T. .of^' (or log".:co­
sine longitude 0 or dS ) equals log. sine declination.
FOIMJLA 8. ’
The Sun's Declination being given, to'find his Longitude.
Log. sine of his declination minus sine O.E,, equals.'sine of longitude.
FORMULA 9.
• ■ The Sun's Right Ascension.being give,pto find his Longitude.'
Log. cosine of ,0.E* plus log. cotangent R.A. from T o r ‘
¿i (or log.
tangent R.A. -03 or equals log. cotangent longitude from T o r ‘
¿v (or
log. tangent from 3 o r ^ 1. . .
•
' ,. FORMULA 10, v,; .
■ The Right Ascension and Declination of a Heavenly Body, being‘given,
to find its Longitude and .Latitude.
1. — Log. sine R.A. fi*om Tor.fi -..(or log. cosine R.A. from Q or d$ )
plus log. cotangent declination’equals log. tangent A. ■
2. — R.A. and declination same name, £ A.plus obliquity of ecliptic equals
J_ B (If the R.A. be less than 180°, call it ftorth; if greater than 180°,
.call it South.)
R.A. and declination of different ndiries, the difference and O.E.
equals B.
Then,•
,
for the Longitude:— •■•.•;.
‘ - Log, sine ¿ A (a,c.) .plus, log. s i n e B plus log. tangent K.A, from
T °r €t (or. log,., cotangent .it./l.p 3 or d5 ) equaxs log. tangent longitude from
T- or .ps-Jor: log. cotangent; longitude .from G or -u ):
• •
. Bor-the L a t i t u d e : - , - ’
Log. cosine A (a.c.) "plus log cosine B plus log* sine- declina­
tion equals log. sine latitude. (If B exceeds 90°, the latitude will--be of
contrary-name to the .declination..)
. . . . . .
242
FOIMJLA 11.
The Longitude and latitude of a Heavenly Body, feeing..given,'.to find
its Right Ascension and Declination.
/
•
1. — Log. sine longitude T or (or log. cosine longitude© or-tS )
plus log. -tangent ;o£ O.E. .equals log. tangent k., .. .
.
2.— Longitude and Latitude sane name, 90° minus latitude equals J_ B.
:■
■ . Longitude and Latitude different,names., 90° plus lat. equals B.
■3.— .B ,minus equals C. ... \ '
Then, for the,-.Declination:--; • .
.
.
Log. cosinely A (a.c.) plus log. cosine (
J plus log. cosine O.E.
equals log. sine of tha^declination.,. ; ,
Bor the Right Ascension:—
. Log. cosine '^declination .(a.c.} plus log. cosine longitude from T
or a (or log. sine longitude from © or ^ ) plus log. cosine latitude equals
log, cosine' R.A.- fromV ;T.or.;
.
. (or log, :sine R„A. from Q . or d
$
. ).
M
[
f
e ■r
-.5' ' 5bHMHLA'12.
To find the Longitude of a Heavenly Body from the Ephemeris.
1. — Find the difference between its longitude at the noon preceding and
the'noon, succeeding tHeVgiven time.. • •
2. — Find the diurnal*proportional logarith,' corresponding to the amount
of that difference; findy„-'also, t£.e diurnal proportional logarithm of the
time elapsed since the preceding noon; add the logs, together and the sum
will, be the diurnal proportional logarithm of. the-motion of the heavenly body
in longitude. "
,>
.
3
.
.
— Add.the sum .o.btahj%d in-this manner to the longitude, at the preced­
ing noon (but subtract;-it-in, the case of a retrograde planet), and the sum
will be-the longitude required.
SAMPLE.** Let it be r&quired to find the longitude of the Moon at
4:05 p.m. GMT of November %
£>,? 1877. The moon's motion in the 24^ was 13°23’.
Diurnal proportional logarithm of 13°-2i3'......... 25.365 .
Diurnal proportional logarithm of 4*15l
a . . . . . . 76920
\ .
> •
- . Moon's motion in- 4^5m =
■ «¡Pi?’i ... . ... .
.
*.
. *
.
-
.
v ,.1.02285,
Then, the Moon's longitud'1
© at noon, Taurus 2302* plus 2°17' equals
Taurus' 25°19'- the Moon's ’
lcjpituqe 'required.. -
To Find the latitudpjard Longitude of a Star by ibe.Celestial Globe.
* • , . *
‘
i'- ?1 . .
RULE.— Place the upper end of the quadrant of altitude on .the north or
south pole of the ecliptic, according to whether.the star.-is on the north or
south side of the ecliptic, and move the other,.er}d .'.until .thq star comes to
the graduated edge of the quadrant: the number of ,degrees -between .the
ecliptic and the star is-the,.latitude; and the- number•o£ degrees .on* the *
ecliptic, reckoned eastward from the first point of ;Aries "to the quadrant,
is the longitude. ' j
. ., . ; , ..
.
Or, elevate the north or south .pole 66-|° above the horizon, ..accord­
ing to whether the star is on the north or south side of the ecliptic; bring
the pole of the ecliptic to that part of the brass meridian which is number­
ed from the equinoctial towards the pole; then the ecliptic will coincide
243
M M .
j«,.1
■■W
with, the horizon;, screw the quadrant of latitude upon the brass meridian
over the pole of the ecliptic ; ;
keepl3i
j
e
; glpbe from revolving on its axis,
and move the quadrant until its graduated edge "comes’oirer the given star;?
the degree on the quadrant cut by t h e n a r is its latitude; and the sign and.
degree on:the ecliptic cut by the qujadfant shows its longitude. ,
: .1 -ij ,
To find the. .Arc of Duration of .
a Primary .Direction of the Sun
Moon. 5 • 'Jr'""; ' .
. ■
If .-the Sun be in" bither -.¿3 7j
j
> ,
. -
q. ■, .
, or / , when the
parallel, is completed, his'.south liiab will first enter the parallel declina­
tion, or the,.-declination of the aspfect, .and his north limb m i l be the last
to enter-it.,
-If the Sun be in ~ i'i X , T , or H , when the
parallel is .completed, .Or. the declination of the-.aspect reached, his north
limb will first enter the declination of the parallel or-aspect, and his
south limb will-be the .last immersed iin-i-t. To and from the degrees and
minutes of declination of the giveii; parallel of: declination (or, of the
declination-that, the Sun' s' center .'will:ha've at the place, of the aspect) add
or subtract 6°16',
.and the sum-Or difference will be the declination of the
Sun's center, when the north-or south limb first touches upon the parallel of
declination .
(or the declination of;t
l
a
e
' place of. .-thp aspect^. :
'This---process, of'adding or .subtracting,-.0^16* is ,-also applicable as
regards the .Moon, only'thq.t:the Moon's declination, etc., must be found in
the Ephemeris oy NauticalAlmanac-for-ihe.'.year', of-birth.
. V - > • : / ! • ' ;
.
* •
- • 1
; 4.
Find the longitudes correspending-' to: the t
y
r
e
* declinations thus found,
and work the two directions by th(
e rule 'given at -page 178. The difference
(in arc) between the two values will'-be the arc, of duration, which is to
be converted into time in the'manher described, (Oxley)
In the case of mundane-'directibns 0°16'. should be added to and also
subtracted, from the RlA, ..of the luminary-directed, and-the sum or remainder
should be worked with in such'manner as to direct the east and west limb to
the parallels and aspects;, and by subtracting, the lesser arc from the greater,
the arc of. duration,.- or of anticipation- and retardation.', may be determined.
-
.
. . FGOpOTS
■ -v
1. The arc of duration will.vary in length according to the sign in which
the aspect or parallel of declination falls; the longest will be in H , G ,
? , and '>5 ;, and in some cases’the same limb of the luminary that first
entered on the declination MAY be the last to leave it. The longest arc,
near the tropics, will be about l V ^ O ’; the shortest, near the equinoxes,
about 1°20'.
e^6iio¿o
•SNO 200a Æ
O CU®
‘TO-IIX s
t
[
q
. jo
SB 8UTBS 9IÎQ. 0JB ‘ SSStlOT{ tfO-HIA. pttB tfíj-lft, ‘ p j j ST^ JO SSpod 8TII
8IÎJ SB sures stp}. sjb ‘ sssnotf t^xi pire p:y¡. ‘ P i l i siíq. jo sspod ata­
oso
f
[
q
.
‘ m u .
•
•
f
f
i
l
O
N
LONGITUDES AND LATITUDES IN THE
UNITED STATES
by
Eugene Dernay, MAEA.
Here is the one compilation every student, teacher, researcher----
everyone who calculates horoscopes----will want. At last we have an
accurately calculated compilations of longitudes and latitudes for every
city and town in the United States with 2500 or more population -
- over
5,000 of them— and every County seat regardless of size.
These longitudes and latitudes are calculated to the nearest
minute for a given place in each city or town, and a table is furnished
with it for determining the precise coordinates for any point a little
distant, if even greater accuracy is desired. Ho longer m i l it be
necessary to calculate horoscopes for births in the United States "to the
nearest degree of longitude or latitude.
In addition to longitudes and latitudes, the local mean time
variation from Standard Time is given for every locality, and the
Greenwich Mean Time variation from Local Mean Time is also given.
The astrological world or at least American Astrologers should
ever be grateful to the author, Mr. Dernay, for this work. It took almost
four years to make all the calculations necessary for this volume and all
the minute measurements on large scale maps to complete this work. It
was an amazing revelation to find the number of errors that exist in widely
accepted gazeteers of longitudes and latitudes.
As the first edition of this valuable publication is limited,
you should place your order immediately. It is published by the National
Astrological Library, 327 A Street, S.E., Washington 3, D.C., and is
priced at §2.50, or §2.60 postpaid.
The National Astrological Library,
327 A Street, S.E.,
Washington 3, D,C.
Gentlemen:
I enclose herewith ___________ f°r §________ for
(check or money order)
which plaese send me 1 copy (ies) of LONGITUDES AND LATITUDES IN
THE UNITED S T A U S by Eugene Dernay.
Name ___________________________________
Address_________________________________
Uity, Zone & State ______________
