{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__fox___sparks_of_truth_your_inner_power.pdf","mytitle":"Sparks Of Truth Your Inner Power","mylang":"de"}
FIND AND USE
YOUR INNER POWER
(or “ S P A R K S OF T R U T H " )
by
EMMET FOX
M W V V i\v vw vw w u w vw \vw u m u 'rtu w w n v\u vw u v vw w w w \u vv \u w \v vw w u \vw vv w u w w \\w vvw i
vwvvvvvvvvvvwvvvvvv^vv^vvvvvvwmvvvvvvvwvvvvvvvvvvwvvvvvvvwvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvuvvvvvvvwvvv-wvvvvvvvvvv^
jsL
l i
1817
HARPER & ROW, PUBLISHERS
New York, Hagerstown, San Francisco, London
FIND AND USE YOUR INNER POWER
FORMERLY PUBLISHED AS “SPARKS OF TRUTH”
Copyright, 1931, >938, >939, >941 by Emmet Fox
Printed in the United States of America
A il rights in this book are reserved.
No part of the book may be reproduced in any
■ manner whatsoever without written permission
except in the case of brief quotations embodied
in critical articles and reviews. For information
address Harper & Row, Publishers, Incorporated,
to East 53rd Street, New York 10022, N . Y.
TO
ALL MEN AND WOMEN EVERYWHERE
WHO BELIEVE THAT THE WILL OF GOD
FOR MAN
is
FREEDOM, HEALTH, AND HARMONY
AND THAT
THESE THINGS CAN BE ATTAINED BY
LEARNING THE LAWS OF LIFE AND
APPLYING THEM
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER
C O N T E N T S
wwvvw\vui\vvmvvwvvvvv\vvvvvvivwvvvvvv\vvv\vwv\' \u\ vv\\\vv\\v\vv'awvv\vwvvvvvwwwvwwwwwww\
Preface xi
Take It Easy i
Cafeteria 2
Worm Gets Ideas 3
An All In Policy 3
Saluting the Christ in Him 6
Stand By for Quarantine! 8
The W ill of God 9
Spreading the Truth 10
The Dove 12
Satan Gets Away with It 14
The Bible Unveiled 16
You Are a Mental Being 17
G od’s Hour 18
Millennium 19
Spotlights 20
Cause and Effect 21
Studying the Bible 22
Symptoms and Causes 23
The Cup and the Lip 24
H ow to Meditate Easily 23
Sentiment Slays 27
Bear Hugs Kettle 28
Thought Is Destiny 29
Don’t Be a Tragedy Queen 30
Fundamental Truth 31
Register Joy and Hold It 32
Rough Altars 33
Faith 34
Building and Wrecking 33
Flee to the Mountains 36
Personality, True and False 37
One World—Not Two 38
“ Great Sacred Cow—Do
Not Touch!" 39
It Cannot Be Your Duty 40
“ All Things Be Ready If
Our Minds Be So" 41
Christopher Columbus 43
Spotlights 44
No Waiting 43
Me Bothers I 47
Swing Doors to Hell 48
Leaves from the Fool’s
Handbook 30
H ow to Be Unhappy 30
H ow to Fail in Every­
thing 32
How to Destroy Your
Health 33
Treatment or Scientific
Prayer 37
Casting the Burden 38
M y Steer 39
The Door That Opens In 61
Why Does Not God . . . ? 62
The Mills of God 64
Pike's Peak or Bust! 66
Don't Try—Let 6i
Contents
It's More Fun to Be In­
telligent 69
Come Off That Burning
Deck! 7/
Don't Force Things 73
Spotlights 74
The One Thing That Matters 73
Produced Without Rehearsal 76
Bluebeard Draws the Line 77
God Says N ow 78
The Mixing Bowl 79
You Are Always Treating 80
Take God for Your Partner 81
The Dictaphone 82
A Spiritual Treatment 84
Let That Dog Alone! 85
Only Your Own Thoughts 87
No Office Hours 88
The Single Eye 89
The Moron Club—Promi­
nent Members 90
Mr. Atlas 90
Mrs. Fix-It 92
Sweet Alice (Ben Bolt) 94
See-Saw Simpson 96
Wilbur Weakfish 98
Calamity fane too
Dog House for Sale 102
Don't Talk About It toy
What Do You Want? 104
What Then? toy
Remember Lot's W ife 107
The Eternal Incarnation 108
True Place and Right Place 109
Criticism versus Discrimina­
tion n o
H ow Much Ocean? 112
viii
Friday Had Something
There 119
Merry-Go-Round 119
God Must Live in You 117
What Jesus Christ Taught 118
Prayer Is the Remedy 119
Spotlights 120
Coffee for Three 121
Look Where You Are
Going 129
He Beat the Cards 124
Spiritual Jitter-Bugs 129
One Spanking Should Be
Enough 126
Life Is Change 127
We Are All One 128
Spotlights 129
Treat the Treatment 190
Taking the Train to Boston 192
It's Hard If You Think It
Is 194
The Springtime of the Soul 199
The True Easter 196
Thou Canst Not Steal 197
Never Say Die 198
Yes, I Believe It 199
Love Acts the Part 140
A Way of Life 141
Spotlights 142
Fletcherize Life! 149
But. . . . 149
Let's Not Be Cocksure 147
Don't Be a Dinosaur 149
Spiritual Sun-Bathing 190
Fools’ Gold 191
N ow You Must Do It 192
To Him That Hath
Contents IX
Rossini Slept It Away 155
Your Mind Is Your Labora­
tory 156
Sensitive Bitt Happy 158
Your Criminal Ear 160
Stepping Out on Wana-
maker 161
In the Beginning, Me 163
Can't-Be-Done's 164
Change Your Mind—and
Keep It Changed 166
Too Old at Something 163
Is That Your Hat? 169
I Bless Him—He's a Devil 130
Shrapnel 131
Your Own Valuation 133
The Glory of His Presence 134
Where’s the Fire? 133
Paderewski! — That’s Dif­
ferent! 133
Intelligence 139
Stop Limiting G od 181
It Was Long Since Proved— 183
Treat the “Because” 184
Make It Sunconscious 183
Shepherd Not Bell-hop 186
Is It a Lie? 183
The Means Is Not the End 189
M. Y. O. B. 190
Divine Wisdom Works
in You . . . 191
Circulation 192
Are You a Fetish Wor­
shiper? 193
Have You Ever Noticed
193
Have You Seen the Leop­
ard? 196
Keep on the Beam 198
Grant Always Fought 199
The Lost Corot 201
What a Shame! 203
You Have a Divine Agency 203
Have You Lost Your Wig­
wam? 203
I Wonder Why . . . 209
H ow to Get a Demonstra­
tion 210
No Depression in Nature 212
The Great Adventure 214
Problems and Opportunities 213
The American Spirit 216
The American Constitution 213
The City on a Hill 219
The Supreme Right 220
The Great Hippodrome
Meeting 221
“ Genuine-Life Prayer Meet­
ing Attracts Earnest
Thousands" 223
Show Me Thy Face! 223
P R E F A C E
T
he Laws of Thought are the Laws of Destiny.
Whatever you believe with feeling, that you bring
into your life.
These little essays are intended to instruct the reader
in Basic Spiritual Truth, and to furnish material for short
meditations. They were published once a week over a
number of years.
The subjects are usually handled in a light and amus­
ing style, and often deal with familiar incidents in every­
day life. The reason for this policy is as follows:
The writer has always believed that fundamental
Spiritual, Philosophical, and Metaphysical Truths could
be stated in the plainest and simplest language, so that
any intelligent child could understand them. It is true
that most writings on these great subjects have been very
obscure, and full of technical jargon; but the present
writer believes that to be unnecessary.
Certain subjects, such as the higher mathematics, for
instance, must remain out of reach of the layman; but
this is not important because they do not concern his
practical life. The understanding of Spiritual Truth, on
the other hand, is not only the concern of Everyman,
but is a vital need of his life; and it must necessarily
therefore be possible for him to obtain it in a form which
he can use. The loftiest and the most profound spiritual
knowledge alike must be capable of being understood by
any reasonably intelligent person over ten years of age.
X
I
xii Preface
These great Truths are actually revealed to us, not in
the pages of inaccessible treatises, but in the seemingly
petty and unimportant details of everyday life. Such
practical details—the problems and experiences of day
to day living—present the questions, and also furnish the
answers to the great problems of human life, when one
has the Spiritual Key.
The writer tries as far as possible to avoid the use of
technical terminology, and never employs a word of
three syllables where a word of two syllables will do.
Each of these Sparks illustrates one or more of the
Laws of psychology or metaphysics. T ry in each case to
find out for yourself which is the particular Law in­
volved, and then see if you are using that Law construc­
tively in your own life. If you are not, you must change
your habits of thinking without delay, for the Laws of
Thought are the Laws of Destiny.
A small spark can start a great fire
T A K E IT EA SY
D on’t H u r r y . Y ou are going to live forever—some­
where. In fact, you are in eternity now; so why rush?
D on’t W o rry. What will this thing matter in twenty
years’ time? You belong to God, and God is Love; so
why fret?
D on’t C o n d em n . A s you cannot get under the other
fellow’s skin, you cannot possibly know what difficul­
ties he has had to meet— how much temptation, or mis­
understanding, or stupidity within himself he has had to
overcome. You are not perfect yourself and might be
much worse in his shoes. Judge not!
D on’t R e se n t . If wrong has been done, the Great Law
will surely take care of it. Rise up in consciousness and
set both yourself and the delinquent free. Forgiveness is
the strongest medicine.
D on’t G r u m b l e . Consume your own smoke. Your
own concept is what you see; so treat, and change that.
D on’t G r a b. Y ou cannot hold what does not belong
to you by right of consciousness anyway. Grabbing post­
pones your good.
D on’t Shove. Y ou are always in your right place at
the moment. If you don’t like it, change it scientifically
by rising in consciousness. This will be permanent.
i
C A FET ER IA
D
on’t wait for something to turn up. Don’t be con­
tent to let things drift along, hoping for the best.
It is not spiritual to “ put up” with inharmonious condi­
tions. If tbe conditions of your life are not to your liking,
you must get to work on your own consciousness and,
by raising that above the outer picture, cause those con­
ditions to become something nearer to your heart’s de­
sire; and you must keep on doing this until you find your
True Place.
I had an amusing experience when I first came to
America. Passing an attractive looking restaurant, I went
inside, and, selecting a table, sat down and waited.
Strangely, as it seemed to me then, nothing happened.
I sat there and continued to wait—indefinitely as it
seemed. I could not understand the reason for this neg­
lect. All around me, people were enjoying their food,
and only I was left out in the cold. After a while the
truth of the situation slowly dawned on me—it was a
cafeteria. (This system had not yet made its appear­
ance in England in those days.)
I then quickly realized that while there was plenty of
food of every kind to be obtained, one had to go for­
ward and claim it for himself, or go without.
The universe is run exactly on the lines of a cafeteria.
Unless you claim—mentally—what you want, you may
sit and wait forever. Of course, you should not claim in
detail—that is outlining—but you must positively claim
health, harmony, and True Place, if you really want those
things.
2
W ORM G E T S ID EAS
T
o m e the butterfly teaches the most wonderful and
the most important lesson that we human beings
ever have to learn. You all know his story. He is a beau­
tiful butterfly now, but he was not always a butterfly.
No, indeed. He began life, and he lived what seemed to
him a very, very long time, as a worm—and not a very
important kind of worm either—what we call the hum­
ble caterpillar.
Now the life of a caterpillar is a sadly restricted one,
in fact, it could be taken as the very type and symbol of
restriction. He lives on a green leaf in the forest, and
that is about all he knows.
Then one day something happens. The little cater­
pillar finds certain strange stirrings going on within
himself. The old green leaf, for some reason, no longer
seems sufficient. He begins to feel dissatisfied. He be­
comes moody and discontented, but—and this is the vital
point—it is a divine discontent, fie does not just grum­
ble and complain to the other caterpillars, saying “na­
ture is all wrong.” “ I hate this life.” “ I can never be any­
thing but a worm.” “ I wish that I had never been born.”
No, he is discontented, but it is a divine discontent. He
feels the need for a bigger, finer, and more interesting
life. His instinct tells him that where there is true desire
there must be fulfillment, because “where there’s a will,
there’s a way.”
And so the wonderful thing happens. Gradually the
worm disappears, and the butterfly emerges, beautiful,
graceful, now endowed with wings—and instead of
§
4 Find and Use Your Inner Power
crawling about on a restricted leaf, he soars right above
the trees, right above the forest itself—free, unrestricted,
free to go where he likes, and see the world, and bask in
the sun, and, in fact, be his own True Self—the free and
wonderful thing that God intended him to be.
N ow this wonderful story is intended to be the story
of every human soul. It is up to you to develop your
wings by the scientific use of creative imagination so
that you may fly away to your heart’s desire.
A N A L L IN PO LICY
W
hat has your religion done for you? For years
probably, you have been attending church, read­
ing spiritual books, studying the Bible, and so forth. Now
I suggest that you have a spiritual stock-taking. Ask
yourself—what has your religion done for you? What
difference has it made in your life, in your home, in your
affairs? How much peace of mind has it given you? How
much courage? How much understanding? How much
opportunity for service? For, make no mistake, real re­
ligion does give all these things.
If your spiritual stock-taking does not turn out to be
satisfactory, if your religion is not working in this way
—if on examining your life you find there are a number
of places at which you are not demonstrating, if certain
needs are still lacking to you, if there are still negative
things that refuse to go— I believe that you will find the
explanation to lie in the following law: What you put
into your religion, that you get out of it.
If you put five per cent of yourself and your life into
your religion, you will receive a five per cent dividend
or demonstration. If you put twenty per cent of your­
self and your life into your religion, you will receive a
twenty per cent demonstration. And until you put one
hundred per cent of yourself and your life into your
religion you will not receive a one hundred per cent
demonstration.
A complete, all round demonstration calls for an all in
policy.
S
SALUTING THE CHRIST IN HIM
W
e o ften hear the expression “saluting the Christ
in him,” or “seeing the Christ in him,” and we
may well ask ourselves what that phrase really means.
Well, it is simply the practical application of the rule
of Jesus Christ, “Judge not according to appearances but
judge righteous judgment.”
Each one of us has a Divine Self which is spiritual and
perfect but which is never seen on this plane. That is the
true man, God’s man, and is what we call today, “ the
Christ within.” It is the real you, or the real he, or she.
N ow whenever you dwell upon or realize the pres­
ence of the Christ within—within yourself or within
anyone else—outer appearances begin at once to improve,
and both the amount of the improvement and the rate
at which it takes place, will depend on the number of
times that the Indwelling Christ is “saluted” or realized,
and the degree of realization attained.
This saluting of the Christ need take only a moment,
and it never fails to benefit the individual concerned, and
the person who does it also.
When someone seems to be behaving badly, or when
you hear bad news concerning him, salute the Christ in
him instead of accepting the appearance. When a given
condition seems to be inharmonious, whether it be an
organ of the body, a business arrangement, or anything
else, see God working in it—better still, “Golden K ey”
it—and this saluting of the Christ will heal it.
If somebody displeases you, silently salute the Christ
6
in him, and say aloud whatever seems best. If someone
says: “John Smith is sick,” salute the Christ in Smith
(know that in reality he is spiritual and perfect), and
refuse to accept the negative statement. If someone says
something against John Smith’s character, salute the
Christ in him, refuse to discuss the matter, and of course
do not repeat it.
The oftener you salute the Christ in others, the sooner
will you find It in yourself.
Saluting the Christ in Him y
STA N D B Y FO R Q U A R A N T IN E!
W
h en you are praying or treating about a particu­
lar thing, you should handle it, mentally, very
carefully indeed. The ideal way is not to think about it
at all except when you are actually praying about it. To
think about it in between, especially to talk to other
people about it, is exceedingly likely to invite failure.
When a new problem presents itself to you, you should
immediately know the Truth about it, and then decline
to consider it except in the light of Truth. I call this
“putting a subject in quarantine,” and whenever I have
been able to “ quarantine” a problem of my own I have
always demonstrated very easily and very well.
Even an old, long-standing problem can be “put in
quarantine” today, if you mean business and will reso­
lutely break the habit of constantly thinking over that
problem.
Everyone knows that a photographer must not expose
unfixed film to daylight, if he wants to get results. Every­
one knows how careful a chemist is to isolate (i.e., “ quar­
antine” ) his materials in the laboratory, since the slight­
est contamination of one chemical by another will
probably ruin any experiment. What many Truth stu­
dents do not seem to understand is that mental operations
have to be just as carefully safeguarded if demonstrations
are to be made.
Whenever you think about any subject, you are treat­
ing it with your thought— either for good or evil.
8
T H E W IL L OF GO D
T
he most wonderful thing in the world is the Will of
God. The W ill of God for you at the present mo­
ment is something glorious and beautiful, thrillingly in­
teresting and joyous, and, in fact, far beyond anything
that you could possibly sit down and wish for with your
conscious mind.
It is unfortunate that so many people seem to assume
as a matter of course that the W ill of God for them is
likely to be something dull or burdensome, if not posi­
tively repulsive.
“ I suppose it is God’s will for me, so I must put up
with it,” people say when talking about some condition
that they hate. “T hy will be done,” pious people say in
the face of death or tragedy. All this is absolutely wrong.
The Will of God for man is life, health, happiness, and
true self-expression, and it is only in connection with
these things that we can say, “T hy will be done.”
Trouble or suffering of any kind does not come from
God. It is an indication that there is a lesson to be learned
by us, and the trouble itself furnishes us with the very
opportunity that we need in order to learn that lesson, so
that such a thing need never happen to us again.
Trouble is valuable opportunity. Experience is price­
less instruction. The W ill of God for you is always some­
thing joyous and fine.
9
SPREADING THE TRUTH*
T
o co nvey the knowledge of the Truth to others has
always been considered one of the most effective
means for one’s own spiritual development. In the an­
cient schools of Wisdom it was an accepted duty re­
garded as binding upon all. Jesus himself has said to us:
“ Go ye therefore and teach all nations,” and, “This gos­
pel must first be preached to all the world.”
In this age when practically everyone can read and
write, the circulation of inexpensive booklets and pam­
phlets, is one of the most effective ways of spreading the
Truth. A written statement is impersonal. It raises no
arguments. It is never inopportune, because the recipient
will naturally wait until he is ready before reading it. It
can be gone over several times at leisure if it is not readily
understood at first contact.
You cannot do a more useful thing for your fellow
man, and for yourself too, than to put in somebody else’s
way any one of the Truth books that have helped you
personally. This practice, in Shakespeare’s phrase, “ is
twice blessed. It blesseth him that gives and him that
takes.”
Hear a modern parable:
John Smith bought a Truth book. He handed it or
mailed it to his friend, Mr. Brown, whom he knew to be
going through a difficult time. Brown was immensely
struck with it—these ideas were quite new to him— he
carried the little book about in his pocket, followed the
* See Fifteen Points in Power T hrough Constructive T hinking.
io
instruction given, and made a beautiful demonstration.
He was so enthusiastic that he broached the subject to a
business colleague, Jones, during lunch, presented him
with his own copy, and wrote off for a fresh supply for
himself that night.
Jones, as it happened, was not really interested. He
took the little book merely out of politeness, glanced at
the first page, and threw it away. He was about to tear
it across as was his custom when discarding documents,
but the attractive cover restrained him and he put it aside
uninjured.
His stenographer, Miss Robinson, found it among the
litter, and, liking the look of it, took it home and studied
it carefully. She determined to try it on a personal prob­
lem that was making her own life miserable at the time,
and being unusually simple and direct in her methods,
demonstrated within three days. She then mailed her
copy to her brother in a distant city. For years he had
been hungry for a living religion, and, briefly, the book­
let changed his life. Naturally he himself went on to
spread the Truth in his own way, as did each of the
others in the chain.
In this parable, we see that John Smith, by a single act,
became the means of blessing quite a number of people
(most of whom he never heard of), and that the good
results of that first act went on indefinitely.
Until the people learn the Truth, it cannot set them
free.
Spreading the Truth 1 1
T H E D O VE
I
n p r a ye r or treatment it is the thought, and not
the words used, that matters. The words are merely
an indication of the thought. Some people find that the
right idea develops more easily when a good many
words are used, and of course such people should use
as many words as they feel the need of. Others are em­
barrassed by the difficulty of finding many words, and
in that case two or three phrases only are quite sufficient.
A well known man was healed of consumption using
only the single statement “ God is Love.” O f course, he
dwelt upon it-intelligently until he thoroughly realized
something of what those words must mean.
W e all remember the story of Ali Baba and the cave.
Unless one knew the exact word it was impossible to
open the door. The thought might be the precise one re­
quired, but unless the exact word “sesame” was uttered,
the door remained obstinately shut. Barley? Wheat?
Grain?—No use. “ Sesame” was the magic word, and
nothing else whatever would do. N ow in treatment it is
the exact opposite of this. Not the word, but the thought
in mind is what counts. As long as the thought is right
we may use any language that we find helpful. Our treat­
ments are prayers and not incantations.
Often it is well to dispense with words altogether, as
getting in the way, and introducing a dangerous moment
of delay. When God visits His people, it is their business
to welcome Him immediately, and to experience Him;
not to try to form intellectual definitions. W e must never
The Dove *3
keep God waiting. Directly the realization, which is Em­
manuel,* presents itself, you may have to drop all words
—cease “working” there and then, and possess it. If you
postpone this for ever so short a time you will find,
when you come to look for it, that the Dove has flown
away again, and you will have to wait until he returns.
And that may be quite a long time.
People sometimes say “ I will give half an hour to this
case,” or it may be “ I will go through the Seven Main
Aspects of God.” Excellent things to do, but if it should
happen that after three minutes, or when you have fin­
ished the second Aspect, the Dove alights, then receive
him instantly with open arms. To think, “I will finish
my treatment first,” is to turn him away. This feeling of
the real Presence of God is itself, of course, the perfect
treatment; the end to which all our statements are but
means.
He saw the heavens opened and the Spirit like a dove
descending upon him (Mark 1:10).
‘ Matthew 1:13.
SATAN GETS AWAY WITH IT
G
od is the only Presence and the only Power. God
' is the only Cause, and His will is completely ful­
filled at every moment. What we call evil or error is a
false belief which we form about good. It has no power
apart from the power we give it by believing in it.
This is the Truth teaching, but it happens too often in
practice that the student, instead of really getting rid of
the conventional belief in the reality of evil, merely
changes the name of his devil, and goes on recognizing
him under some new alias.
It is the standard practice with swindlers each time
they are exposed, promptly to change the name of the
firm and then restart the old fraud under the new style.
When once the name of “John Smith” has appeared in
the police reports, he does not, unless he is a very negli­
gible villain indeed, again solicit your confidence under
that title. It would be waste of time. What he does is
just to buy a new brass plate and start up the old racket
again as “iMessrs. Brown & Jones” or what not. Later,
when this in turn is exploded, he once more changes the
style of the firm to, let us say, “Robinson & Company,”
and so on ad infinitum. And he never lacks victims, be­
cause so long as people will allow themselves to be
swayed by mere names, instead of examining the under­
lying thought, they have no protection.
This is just the way in which apparent evil acts. Satan,
having been thoroughly exposed as the Devil, with
horns, hoofs, and tail, promptly alters his name and ad-
14
i5
dress, and goes on tempting those who should know bet­
ter, into sin, sickness, and death, by giving himself some
new description such as error, mortal mind, hypnotism,
time, climate, heredity, and so forth. And only too often
he gets away with it quite successfully. Instead of being
emancipated from fear, his victims are now ten times
more under its dominion than ever they were in their
orthodox days, and they suffer accordingly. They have
merely changed the label on their superstition.
As long as you recognize the reality of anything but
God, under any pretense, you are harboring fear, and
you will punish yourself inevitably. It makes no differ­
ence whether you choose to give your bogey the name
of Satan, Old Nick, Mephisto, or to call it climate, or
heredity, or age, or anything else.
1 am the Lord, and there is none else, there is no God
beside me (Isaiah 45:5).
Satan Gets Away with It
T H E BIBLE U N V EILED
T
h e Bible is too often looked upon as an out-of-date
and rather dull compendium of conventional re­
ligion of the sanctimonious type. There could not be,
however, a greater mistake. Those who find it dull are
those who have had it presented to them in the wrong
way. Read in the light of the Spiritual Interpretation, it
will be found to be a practical textbook of thrilling in­
terest, containing, as it does, clear explanations and defi­
nite guidance for any and every difficulty that can arise
in everyday life.
Religious difficulties, the healing of the body, the pov­
erty problem, home or business worries, are all dealt with
and provided for in the Bible.
YO U A R E A M E N T A L BE IN G
M
an is a mental being, and to know this is the first
step on the road to freedom and prosperity, for
as long as you believe yourself to be primarily physical,
a superior kind of animal, you will remain in bondage—
in bondage, that is to say, to your own habits of thought,
for there is no other bondage. Mind is primary, but mind
must have embodiment, and the embodiment of your
mind is found in your visible conditions—the kind of
health you have, your financial position, your business
connections, the sort of home you have, and all the thou­
sand and one things that make up your present environ­
ment.
This being the case, you will see how foolish it is for
you to endeavor, as do most people, to improve your
conditions by altering your environment while leaving
your mind unchanged. T o attempt this is to attempt the
impossible and to foredoom yourself to failure and dis­
appointment. Mind is cause, and experience is effect;
and so, as long as your mind remains unchanged, it will
continue to produce just those effects or experiences of
which you are anxious to be rid. If you do not like the
experience or effect that you are getting, the obvious
remedy is to alter the cause and then the effect will
naturally alter too.
*7
GO D ’S H O UR
G
od’s hour is the most important event in the day. It
may consist of thirty minutes or longer, according
to the need of the individual, but it should hardly be less
than that if you really mean business in your spiritual life.
God’s hour is the time in which you read the Bible or
other spiritual books and meditate and pray.
The practical secret of health, happiness, and prosper­
ity, and of constant spiritual growth is to make God’s
hour the principal, that is to say, the most important
event in your day. Let that be the center line, as it were,
about which all other activities revolve. Let anything else
be postponed or omitted rather than that God’s hour
should be neglected. Let any other engagement be can­
celed in favor of this. Let any other work go undone
rather than this should be missed.
God’s hour need not be held at the same time every
day although it will be helpful if this can be done. The
essential thing is that God’s hour be the most important
event in the twenty-four hours, and that everything else
be secondary to that.
18
MILLENNIUM
th e Truth of the Omnipresence and Availability
of God seeps more and more into people’s minds,
vast changes for the better will come over the human
race. These changes, in the beginning at least, may be
accompanied by a certain amount of confusion and ap­
prehension, but that stage will not last very long.
First of all poverty will disappear—this change will
begin in the English-speaking countries, then it will be
seen in Continental Europe, and later among the other
civilizations. This means the end of slums with their un­
holy trinity of poverty, hunger, and dirt. All will have
true prosperity without victimizing one section of the
community on behalf of another. Of course, this will
mean the end of crime as well.
Next, sickness and disease will go. People will demon­
strate healthy bodies as a matter of course, and live, in
full activity, to an advanced age.
So rapidly will the human consciousness improve that
the thousand-and-one fears, jealousies, grudges, resent­
ments, and so forth, that spoil people’s lives today, will
be absolutely a thing of the past, and war itself will cease
to exist—war between nations, and industrial war too.
Think of a world with no armies and no navies, no
police departments, no prisons, no hospitals, no poor
houses, no orphanages, no locks on doors or drawers or
banks or safe deposit vaults, because there is no need for
such things.
Think of this new world, and help it to come to birth
by believing in it, expecting it, and praying for it.
SPO TLIG H TS
G
od is not interested in your past history, but in what
you are now. Now is the day of salvation.
You are healthy because you are happy not happy be­
cause you are healthy. A healthy body grows out of a
happy mind.
If you have no time for prayer and meditation, you
will have lots of time for sickness and trouble.
Where you stand today does not matter; it is the direc­
tion in which you are moving, and the rate at which you
travel, that count.
The biggest fool of all is the man who bothers about
outer things and neglects his own spiritual development.
The only depression that you can meet is the depres­
sion thought in your own consciousness.
You really do not know John Smith; you only know
the idea that you form of John Smith.
20
CAUSE AND EFFECT
W
hatever you experience in your life is really but
the outpicturing of your own thoughts and be­
liefs. Now, you can change these thoughts and beliefs,
and then the outer picture must change too. The outer
picture cannot change until you change your thought.
Your real heart-felt conviction is what you outpicture or
demonstrate, not your mere pious opinions or formal as­
sents.
Convictions cannot be adopted arbitrarily just be­
cause you want a healing. They are built up by the
thoughts you think and the feelings you entertain day
after day as you go through life. So, it is your habitual
mental conduct that weaves the pattern of your destiny
for you; and, is not this just as it should be?
So no one else can keep you out of your kingdom—
or put you into it either.
The story of your life is really the story of the rela­
tions between yourself and God.
ii
ST U D Y IN G T H E BIBLE
F
o r the spiritual study of the Bible, by far the best
edition to use is the ordinary King James version.
Have a Bible with type large enough to be read with
comfort. A dollar or two extra spent on your Bible is
worth while since you do not buy one every day.
As a general rule, it is not well to work through the
Bible steadily from end to end, but rather to select any
portion as you feel led at the time. Whichever section
interests you most at the moment is usually likely to be
best for you at that time. Read the Bible in the light of
the spiritual interpretation, using the principal keys and
symbols, noting the meanings of proper names, and so
forth, as you come to them.
The Bible will usually give you a special message
for yourself, fitting your need at the moment. In order
to get this, you should claim frequently while you are
reading: “Divine Intelligence is inspiring m e”
Do not go to the Bible to get confirmation for your
own ideas, but rather to be taught something new.
“Speak Lord, for Thy servant heareth.”
22
SYM PTOM S AN D CAUSES
I
f you have made many efforts, as you probably have,
to set things right, but without any real success, the
reason is to be found just here: You have been tamper­
ing with symptoms and leaving your mind, the real
cause of the trouble, untouched. You have been wrestling
with circumstances, with people, and with things, and
leaving your mind unchanged; and it is just that mind
of yours that is causing all the trouble, all the time, and
will continue to do so as long as it remains in its present
state. You have been struggling to transform yourself by
renewing your conditions, whereas the Law is that we
are transformed by the renewing of our minds.
If you want perfect health; if you want abundant
prosperity, happiness, a good home, congenial friends,
beauty, joy, and thrilling interest in your life, you can
have them, if you really want them; but you must want
them enough to take trouble enough to find out the only
w a y to get them. You must want them enough to take
the trouble to learn how to think, since thought is the
only cause.
23
THE CUP AND THE LIP
a n experience that comes to many people may be
described as follows: In business life or in their
personal affairs they frequently find themselves starting
some desirable project and carrying it on without much
difficulty up to the threshold of completion, whereupon,
for some unknown reason it seems to jam tightly. The
last step or the last two steps just cannot be taken.
Seemingly everything is ready to insure success, and
then at the eleventh hour, the door closes.
And this experience occurs not once but time after
time in one project after another. An important sale is
all but completed; all parties concerned seem to be satis­
fied; but when the moment for signing the contract
comes, the sale falls through. Or an important position
is all but secured; satisfactory interviews take place; and
then at the last moment, someone else is appointed. Or
an important meeting is arranged, with a great deal of
pains, between two people, and at the last minute the
most unexpected happening prevents their meeting. And
so on.
These I call “cup and lip” cases since they illustrate
so well the old proverb, “There’s many a slip ’twixt the
cup and the lip.” Such a run of misfortune can be
broken in the following way: Realize: “ I belong to
God. M y work is God’s work for God works through
me. God’s work cannot be hindered or delayed. Of
course, God always finishes successfully whatever He
begins. God’s work must go through to completion. My
work is His work, so it reaches full fruition. I thank
God for tiffs.”
Zi
H O W TO M ED IT A T E EA SILY
T
ruth students are constantly urged to practice
meditation on Divine things and, indeed, there is
no more powerful form of prayer. It is the Practice of
the Presence of God in its most effective form, and is
the quickest way out of sin, sickness, and inharmony.
But, unfortunately, many people have a fixed idea that
they cannot meditate. “ I am not spiritual enough,” they
say; or, “ I have had no mental training along that line” ;
and so they cut themselves off from the quickest form
of spiritual growth. Now, the fact is that everyone can
and does meditate. Even the most seemingly material
people constantly meditate— only they do not meditate
on Divine things.
Thousands of men meditate deeply upon the subject
of baseball during the season, without in the least realiz­
ing that they are doing so. What usually happens is
something like this—John Smith gets up in the morning
and immediately picks up all the problems of life where
he left them before going to sleep. He goes down to
breakfast, and engages in conversation about family
matters, domestic problems, and so forth. On the railroad
platform he buys a paper, reads the headings on the
front page, and becomes involved in national and for­
eign politics, and the latest crime. Then the train comes
in and, having selected a seat, he turns over to the base­
ball page. Here he reads steadily for ten or fifteen
minutes, and now a change takes place. Gradually, as
he reads about the ball games and becomes absorbed in
what he is reading, all other subjects fade out of his mind.
*5
26 Find and Use Your Inner Power
Home troubles, business troubles, politics, crime, all
are forgotten. Presently he lays down the paper and
becomes lost in the contemplation of his subject. He
thinks about prominent players. He criticizes the manage­
ment of his own favorite team. Possibly he thinks of
certain changes which he would like to see made in the
rules of the game— and much more along the same line.
The next thing he knows, thirty or forty minutes have
passed, and he has arrived at his destination.
Now, here is an excellent example of a first class
meditation—except that it has been about baseball in­
stead of about Divine things. This man read up his
subject for ten or fifteen minutes and thus got away
from the general stream of thought. Having done this,
he proceeded to think through and about his subject
until he became absorbed in it—his technique was per­
fect.
N ow if you will imitate him, except that you will
read a spiritual book for ten or fifteen minutes, and then
think about God—taking perhaps the Seven Main As­
pects in turn—think about your spiritual self, think
about the Truth of Being in any shape or form, you will
have made a wonderful meditation too. And if you do
this you cannot fail of remarkable results.
SE N T IM E N T SLA YS
S
e n tim e n t is usually a short cut to unhappiness and
failure. It is more deadly than poison gas, more
cruel than the Inquisition, more subtle than self-love.
Sentiment really means pretending. It means making
believe that an emotion that is really dead is still alive.
It means pretending that something is fine or joyous or
worth while, when in fact it is none of these things.
Thus it means a waste of time, a waste of the soul sub­
stance which is lavished upon a lie. Worst of all, senti­
ment shuts us off from the realization of good in the
present moment.
Sentiment usually pretends that some happiness is
lost beyond recall, or else it persuades us to worship an
unreal abstraction of some kind on the ground that
actual conditions are not worth caring about.
Live in the present and let the dead past bury its
dead. No good thing that ever existed is out of reach
when you understand the spiritual nature of Being. See
to it that today and tomorrow are filled with beauty and
joy, and this you can do through Treatment. Remember
that people never sentimentalize over present good.-,
they enjoy it, and thereby glorify God. When they
sentimentalize, it is always for something supposedly out
of reach.
No good experience is out of your reach because
God Himself is with you.
27
BEA R H U G S K E T T L E
I
once read an anecdote of the Far West which carries
a wonderful metaphysical lesson. It appears that a
party of hunters, being called away from their camp by
a sudden alarm, left the camp fire unattended, with a
kettle of water boiling on it.
Presently an old bear crept out of the woods, at­
tracted by the fire, and, seeing the kettle with its lid
dancing about on top, promptly seized it. Naturally it
burnt and scalded him badly; but instead of dropping it
instantly, he proceeded to hug it tightly—this being Mr.
Bruin’s only idea of defense. O f course, the tighter he
hugged it the more it burnt him; and of course the more
it burnt him the tighter he hugged it; and so on in a
vicious circle, to the undoing of the bear.
This illustrates perfectly the way in which many
people amplify their difficulties. They hug them to their
bosoms by constantly rehearsing them to themselves and
others, and by continually dwelling upon them in every
possible manner, instead of dropping them once and for
all so the wound would have a chance to heal.
Whenever you catch yourself thinking about your
grievances, say to yourself sternly: “ Bear hugs kettle,”
and think about God instead. You will be surprised how
quickly some long-standing wounds will disappear under
this treatment.
28
T H O U G H T IS D EST IN Y
Y
ou think, and your thoughts materialize as experi­
ence; and thus it is, all unknown to yourself as a
rule, that you are actually weaving the pattern of your
own destiny, here and now, by the way in which you
allow yourself to think, day by day and all day long.
It is altogether in your own hands. Nobody but your­
self can keep you down. Nobody else can involve you
in difficulty or limitation. Neither parents, nor wives,
nor husbands, nor employers, nor neighbors; nor pov­
erty, nor ignorance, nor any power whatever can keep
you out of your own when once you have learned how
to think.
The Science of Living is the Science of Thought.
29
DO N ’T BE A T R A G E D Y Q U EEN
W
hen things go seriously wrong there is a strong
temptation to cast oneself for a tragic role, to
feel deeply injured and even embittered. The result of
this, however, is only to make it more difficult to get
things right again. Indeed, it may be quite impossible to
demonstrate at all so long as this attitude lasts.
Self pity, by making us feel sorry for ourselves, seems
to provide an escape from responsibility, but it is a fatal
drug nevertheless. It confuses the feelings, blinds the
reason, and puts us at the mercy of outer conditions.
In the old-fashioned dramas a favorite role was the
Tragedy Queen. It was traditional for her to stalk about
the stage in heavy black with an intolerable air of in­
jured innocence. She never made any attempt to put
things right, and she invariably came to a sad end.
Don't be a tragedy queen—whether you are a man
or a woman, for it is not a question of sex but of mental
outlook. No matter what happens, refuse to take it
tragically. Absolutely repudiate a crown of martyrdom.
If you cannot laugh at yourself (which is the best
medicine of all), at least try to handle the difficulty in
m objective way, as though it concerned somebody else.
To be tragic is to accept defeat. T o refuse to be tragic
s to affirm victory. Know that you can be victorious
cind insist upon victory. Realize: God in me is stronger
ihan anything l have to meet.
30
FU N D A M E N T A L T R U T H
T
he principal revelation of the Jesns Christ Teaching
is the Omnipresence and Availability of God, and
the belief that because God not only transcends His
universe but is everywhere immanent in it—that He
indwells in it—it must in reality reflect His perfection.
It is prayer which opens the door of the soul so that
the Divine Power may work its will to harmony and
peace.
This religion teaches that physical ailments are really
maladies of the soul outpictured on the body, and that
with the healing of the soul accomplished, the healing
of the body must follow. The soul is vivified by drawing
closer to God through prayer and meditation, and by
changing one’s outer conduct to bring it more com­
pletely in harmony with God’s law.
It teaches the efficacy of Scientific Prayer to reshape
one’s whole life for health, harmony, and spiritual de­
velopment. By Scientific Prayer we mean the Practice
of the Presence of God.
3*
R E G IST E R JO Y AN D HOLD IT
I
F you really believe in the existence of God you should
be happy and cheerful. Even if conditions for the
time being are difficult or repugnant, you should under­
stand that such things can only be a temporary picture.
God has all power, and God is good; so life must be
good too. Once you know this, it can only be a matter
of time before you will demonstrate both health and
happiness.
Meet the world with a smile. You owe this to God, to
fellow man, and, above all, to yourself. If you go about
with a face like an east wind, what can you possibly
expect to attract from the world.
When I say smile, of course, I mean a real smile, not
an artificial one, for an artificial smile is the saddest sight
on earth. W e all know people who carry a fixed, frozen,
mirthless, almost professional, smile. Really, however,
that is not a smile at all, it is just a permanent wave in
the face.
Smile, even if it takes a little effort at first, and keep it
up until it becomes spontaneous, as it will. In the graphic
language of Hollywood, register joy, and hold it!
J f* *
R O U G H A L T A R S
And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build
it of hewn stone: for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast pol­
luted it.
Exodus 20:25
T
he secret of success in prayer is to be simple, direct,
and spontaneous. Any kind of elaboration is sure
to break the spiritual contact and result in failure. In
the above text, the Israelites were told that they must
not polish, or square, or otherwise elaborate their altars;
they were to use just a rough and ready pile of stones.
Israel in the Bible stands for anyone who believes in
God and in prayer, and so we see from this text thar
effective prayer is something direct and immediate.
As soon as you begin to elaborate, you are using the
intellect, and with the intellect you cannot get spiritual
contact. The intellect is an excellent thing within its own
strictly limited sphere, but you cannot pray intellectu­
ally. Whenever your mental activity becomes involved,
especially if you feel that you are being rather clever
or literary, you may be enjoying yourself, but be certain
that you are not praying.
If a tiger suddenly jumped in the window, you would
not elaborate, or plunge into abstract metaphysical spec­
ulations; you would pray very directly, and you would
probably make your demonstration.
There is a very practical lesson in this example. The
reason people usually get the most remarkable answers
to prayer in times of great emergency is that it is at such
times that they are simple, direct, and spontaneous.
33
FA IT H
Verily, I say unto you, If ye have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not
only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto
this mountain, be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; it shall
be done.
r understanding faith is the life of prayer. It is a
great mistake, however, to struggle to produce a
lively faith within yourself. That can only end in failure.
The thing to do is to act as though you had. faith. What
we voluntarily do will always be the expression of our
true belief. Act out the part that you wish to demon­
strate, and you will be expressing true faith. “Act as
though I were, and I will be,” says the Bible in effect.
This is the right use of the will, scientifically understood.
The statement of Jesus quoted above is perhaps the
most tremendous spiritual pronouncement ever made.
Probably no other teacher who ever lived would have
dared to say it, but Jesus knew the law of faith and
proved it himself many times. W e shall move mountains
when we are willing to believe that we can, and then
not only will mountains be moved, but the whole planet
will be redeemed and re-formed according to the Pattern
in the Mount.
Know the Truth about your problems. Claim spiritual
dominion. Avoid tenseness, strain, and over-anxiety. Ex­
pect your prayer to be answered, and act as though you
expected it.
Matthew 21:21
34
BUILDING AND WRECKING
T
o solve a problem, or to bring some good into your
life, you have to make a new mental “set-up” con­
cerning the matter in question. Paul tells us that we are
“ transformed by the renewing of our minds.''’ Indeed, a
large part of what we call treatment is really the build­
ing up of a new mental attitude in this way. You have
to break down the old mental concept and carefully
build up a new one, just as an old building has to be torn
down before a new one can go up on the same site.
Many people understand all this in principle, but they
fail to demonstrate because they do not carry it out
logically in practice. During the treatment, they care­
fully build up the new mental structure, but as soon as
the treatment is over, instead of faithfully preserving
that structure intact long enough for it to materialize in
the outer, they promptly knock it down again by nega­
tive thinking. It is as though a bricklayer should devote
the morning to building a wall and then spend the after­
noon knocking down what he had built. Obviously, he
could work hard in this fashion year after year without
ever accomplishing anything.
If this seems to be happening to you, it is probably
due to the same cause—building followed by wrecking.
W e are transformed by the renewing of our minds.
35
F L E E TO T H E M O U N TAIN S
When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken
of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place, (whoso readeth,
let him understand:) Then let them which be in Judea flee into the
mountains: Let him which is on the housetop not come down to take
any thing out of his house: Neither let him which is in the field re­
turn back to take his clothes.
Matthew 24, 15-18
T
h e moment you catch yourself thinking a negative
thought, you should reject it instantly. Immediately
switch your attention to the Presence of God. Do not
stop to say “good-by” to the error thought, but break
the connection instantly and occupy your mind with
good; and you will be surprised how many difficulties
will begin to melt away out of your life. Indeed, we
may say that when error presents itself to consciousness,
the first five seconds are Golden.
In the text quoted above, Jesus teaches this lesson in
his own graphic way. The immediate application of these
words was, of course, to the coming siege of Jerusalem,
but the idea involved is eternal. The holy place is your
consciousness, and the abomination of desolation is any
negative thought, because a negative thought means be­
lief in the absence of God at the point concerned. Those
who are in Judea are those who believe that prayer does
change things; and to flee to the mountains means to
pray, especially that quick switching of the thought to
the Presence of God which I have mentioned.
The dramatic detail with which the lesson is illustrated
makes it impossible that we should ever forget it when
once we have the spiritual key.
36
PER SO N A LIT Y, T R U E A N D FA LSE
T
he term “personality” is one which has been greatly
misunderstood in the metaphysical movement. It is
often used as being synonymous with error, but no
greater mistake can be made. Indeed, this misconception
is probably the sole cause of a good many failures to
demonstrate. When things go wrong, people often say,
“ that is a case of personality,” when they really mean
false personality.
Personality, rightly understood, is God’s expression
on this plane. Your individuality is your spiritual identity,
but this has to be expressed on the physical plane, and
that expression is seen as personality. When the expres­
sion is clear and logical, we get a brilliant and well
balanced personality, which means true success in life.
Such a person is found to be unselfish, high-minded, and
extremely efficient in his own field.
On the other hand, when the expression of the in­
dividuality or Christ-man is clouded, confused, and il­
logical, we see selfishness, confusion, and failure in the
personality. Sometimes we also get either a very negative,
drifting type of character, or perhaps an aggressive, over­
bearing, egotistical type.
Do not try to get rid of personality, but develop
your personality on scientific and spiritual lines. Human
personality is not to be destroyed, but redeemed.
37
ONE WORLD—NOT TWO
M
a n y students of metaphysics fall into the vital
error of thinking that there are two worlds; a
world of limitation and trouble “ down here,” and an­
other world of perfection “somewhere up there.” It is
probable that they do not always visualize their mistake
as clearly as this, but that they do labor under such
a delusion is evident from the remarks they often make
when off their guard.
Watch your own phraseology and notice whether
you speak as though you thought there were two worlds;
and if you do, you must hasten to correct that view.
The truth is that there is one world— God’s world—
spiritual and perfect now, but that we see it in a limited
and often distorted way owing to our false beliefs, and
this distorted view of the real world is the so-called
world of limitation. By practicing the Presence of God
wherever distortion shows itself, you will rapidly re­
deem your own existence and help to liberate the whole
race too.
38
“GREAT SACRED COW—DO NOT TOUCH!”
T
he search-light of Truth must be brought to play
upon every phase of your life if you want complete,
all round demonstration. N o corner must be overlooked.
You must be prepared to reconsider everything in your
life, from top to bottom, in terms of your new under­
standing. Beliefs, habitual activities, home and business
arrangements, family relationships, all must be revised
from time to time. If present arrangements are of long
standing, that is no reason for allowing them to continue;
it is an excellent reason for revising and changing them
for the better.
Most people have certain sections of their lives where,
for various reasons (mostly unknown to themselves),
they do not wish to make any change. These places are
set aside and surrounded with an aura of spurious
sanctity like the sacred cows of the East which are
considered too holy to be touched. But this kind of
thing has to go. If you really mean business about regen­
erating your soul and body, there must positively be no
sacred cows in your life. Nothing must be considered
too sacred or too long established for revision, recon­
sideration, or, usually best of all, flinging out altogether.
The sacred cow is the most deadly form of the sin
of idolatry. Nothing is truly sacred but your own In­
dwelling Christ and the process of His awakening.
“ Awake thou that sleepest and arise from the dead, and
Christ shall give thee light.”
39
IT CANNOT BE YOUR DUTY
I
f you are living the spiritual life, you are entitled to
peace of mind and harmonious progress. Should these
things seem to be lacking, have a mental stock-taking and
ask Divine Wisdom to show you the reason for the lack.
It is your duty to set aside a reasonable time each day
for prayer and spiritual reading, and to live the rest of
your life in accordance with what your innermost self
tells you is the Divine Will. That is to say, as jar as is pos­
sible for you at the moment. If you are sincerely doing
this, you can do no more; and you have no cause for
anxiety or self-reproach because you are not accomplish­
ing what is at present impossible for you.
It cannot be your duty to do anything that is beyond
your reach or your strength at the moment.
It cannot be your duty to do anything that you do
not have time to do.
It cannot be your duty to pay any sum of money
which you do not possess.
It cannot be your duty to do anything which sacri­
fices your own integrity or your own spiritual develop­
ment.
It cannot be your duty to do today what is really the
task of tomorrow.
It cannot be right to perform a remote duty at the
sacrifice of a nearer one.
It cannot be right to be hurried, or sad, or discouraged,
or angry, or resentful, or antagonistic, under any cir­
cumstances.
40
“ A L L T H IN G S BE R E A D Y IF O UR
MINDS BE SO”
T
his is one of the greatest statements of spiritual
law ever made. Even in the pages of the Bible itself
there is no clearer or more definite guidance in the art
of living. Shakespeare here gives us a complete statement
of metaphysical truth. Every student of this science
should write it in letters of fire upon his- heart. It is the
door of freedom, and the Jacob’s ladder from earth to
heaven.
There is nothing in the universe that you cannot do
or be if you are mentally ready. People speak of golden
opportunities, but what we call opportunity is really
one’s own mental readiness. Napoleon said, “ Oppor­
tunities? I make opportunities” ; and while this would
be merely a vainglorious boast for one who is not on the
spiritual basis, yet when you do understand the Truth
of Being, it is simply a statement of fact. The Romans
could have had the telephone; the Greeks could have
had the cinema; the Babylonians could have had the
automobile—had they been mentally ready. The laws
of nature were the same in those ages as in ours, the same
materials were in the ground—but the minds of the
Ancients were not ready for those things, and so they
had to go without them.
W e say in metaphysics that demand and supply are
one, and it is equally true that supply and demand are
one also. Supply the necessary mental condition, and the
41
demand, the opportunity, or the occasion, will present
itself automatically.
Whenever you are ready you will find that everything
else is ready too.
42 Find and Use Your Inner Power
CH RISTO PH ER COLUM BUS
A m erican Truth students should never forget that
the primary object of the existence of the United
States is to spread throughout the world the Truth of
the Omnipresence and Availability of God.
It is no mere coincidence that the discoverer of Amer­
ica was named Christopher Columbus. We know that,
rightly understood, “the name is the nature,” and, as
everybody knows, the name Christopher means belong­
ing to the Christ, and the name Columbus means con­
cerning a dove. Now, the Christ is the Spiritual Truth
about anything, the knowing of which will heal any
limitation; and the dove is, of course, the universal symbol
of the Holy Spirit, which is the direct inspirational action
of God in the individual soul.
So the name of America’s discoverer is a complete
crystallization of the Jesus Christ message. This wonder­
ful hieroglyphic implies the All-ness of God, the power
of Scientific Prayer, and the fact of man’s direct contact
with the Divine Mind without the need for any outside
mediator, whether it be a man or an institution.
This is why the United States has to be a democratic
country, and why, among other things, it must always
stand for the maximum of personal freedom for the
individual.
43
SPO TLIG H TS
W
e n ever fail because we are too good—only be­
cause we are not good enough.
To recognize failure intelligently is the first step to­
ward building success.
Recognize success with thanksgiving, and build more
success on that.
You can have anything in life that you really want,
but you must be prepared to take the responsibilities
that go with it.
To solve any problem, get a little higher in con­
sciousness.
Praying for inspiration is just as important as healing
a condition.
When you resist a difficulty, you antagonize it, and
it hits back.
Do not wrestle with the error—know it is not there.
Peace of mind first—and all things will follow on that.
God is ready the moment you are.
44
NO W A IT IN G
D
on’t wait about for God to act dramatically—be­
cause He won’t. If you want anything to happen,
you must bring about a change in your own mental out­
look, whereupon your outer experience will automat­
ically change to correspond. When people expect a
dramatic miracle from the outside, they are really hop­
ing to change conditions without changing themselves;
to get something for nothing, in fact, and that would be
a violation of Cosmic Law.
Don’t wait for God to tell you what to do from the
outside—He won’t. People have said to me, “Well, I
am ready. Whatever God wants me to do, I am ready.
If He wants me to go to California, or to Europe, or to
start any work for Him, I am ready.” Such people, I
have noticed, are apt to go on “being ready” indefinitely
without anything ever happening. The fact is that they
are waiting for a dramatic experience such as came to
Moses on Sinai, and to Paul on the road to Damascus.
Or probably they expect a Western Union boy to ar­
rive with a telegram of instructions from Heaven. None
of these things will happen.
If you are really “ready to do God’s work,” you will
have a clear idea of what you are going to do and how
you propose to go about doing it, and probably you will
know approximately where you are going to do it too.
This is being ready. If you do not have any definite
desire or plan, then you are not “ ready” ; so don’t de­
ceive yourself, but get ready by treating for guidance.
45
Treat for guidance, inspiration, wisdom, and right activ­
ity, until you have a clear, vivid, and whole-hearted
enthusiasm for a definite plan. Then you will really be
ready to do the Lord’s work, and if you vitalize your
plan with unceasing treatment, nothing can prevent your
success.
4Ó Find, and Use Your Inner Power
M E BO TH ERS I
D
o not identify yourself with your present men­
tality any more than with your body. The real
you is the “Christ within” or the “ I am.” When your
body gives you pain or trouble, you handle it as best
you can, knowing that it is something distinct from
yourself; and you should do the same with your mind.
Say every morning: “I am not my body. I am not my
thoughts. I am not my feelings. I am Divine Spirit, an
individualization of God.” T o realize in this way that
you are not one with your present mentality, but that it
is only your instrument, makes it possible for you to
change it for the better very rapidly.
When you find it difficult to manage yourself, think
“ I” intend to think rightly, but “me” does not want to;
nevertheless “me” will have to do what “ I” want— I am
boss.
Of course “me” can be very troublesome, but as soon
as you handle it objectively in this way it knows it is
beaten and quickly surrenders. I want to get up but me
wants to lie in bed. Or me claims indigestion, although
I know I have dominion over my body. Or me is hurt
and angry and wants to hit back, although I am de­
termined to forgive. Or me says that business is hope­
less, when I know that God is my supply. This is how
the battle presents itself to consciousness, but as long
as I insist that I am divine, God’s own expression, I
must and shall win.
47
SW IN G DOORS TO H E L L
B
oth heaven and hell are states of consciousness, the
net resultant of our beliefs and feelings at any time.
Formerly, people thought that both heaven and heli
were places where one went after death, and nowadays
many people seem to think that neither heaven nor hell
exists at all. The truth is that both hell and heaven do
exist, but are states of mind, and we experience them
right here on this earth now.
When you have true peace of mind and an adequate
understanding of life, you are already in heaven; and
when you are full of fear, anxiety, hatred, or physical
pain, you are in hell. The conventional descriptions of
both places are but an attempt to provide symbolical
pictures of states of mind.
Whether you are to live in hell or in heaven depends
solely upon the kind of thinking you indulge in all day
long. And, fortunately, you can, by taking a little
trouble, train yourself to make heavenlike thinking a
constant habit.
The doors of hell are sumig doors. There are no locks
or fastenings upon them. They swing in or out at a
push, and you can go inside any time you choose to do
so, and, by the same token, you can also come out again
any time you choose.
The way out of hell is to begin thinking thoughts of
health, happiness, and success at this very moment, and
to keep it up hour after hour and day after day in spite
48
of all appearances. If only you will do this with de­
termination, you will be through the swing doors and
out of your difficulties before you know what has hap­
pened.
S w in g D oors to H eil 49
LEAVES FROM THE FOOL’S HANDBOOK
i. How to Be U n h appy
S
it down quietly where you are not likely to be dis­
turbed. Relax the body—and begin to think about
yourself. It does not matter very much what you actually
think, as long as it is about yourself. Think about your­
self, and every time your thought wanders to something
higher, bring it back gently but relentlessly.
If possible think about the past. Think over all the
mistakes you have ever made, going right back to child­
hood. Think of all the foolish things you have ever said
or done. Think over all the opportunities you have
missed and the time you have wasted. Especially think
of all the occasions upon which you have been badly
treated. Consider carefully the various injustices of which
you have been the victim and think how much better
off you might be in various ways today if other people
had only behaved properly in times gone by. Remind
yourself vividly of the unkind things that people have
done to you and rehearse the incidents in detail, feeling
as angry or hurt as you possibly can at each recollection.
Even if a particular person has never actually offended
you, realize that he might have done so if he had had
the chance, and tell yourself that he has probably talked
about you anyway.
Think about your body and wonder if your age or
your job or the climate isn’t beginning to tell. See if you
cannot discover a pain or an ache somewhere; you
probably can if you search long enough.
50
Think about business or finances as gloomily as pos­
sible and even if they are going well now, insist that this
is probably too good to last.
In any case, think about yourself, that is the main
point, and if you will keep this up faithfully for fifteen
or twenty minutes, there can be no doubt about the re­
sult. You will have attained your goal.
Leaves from the Fool's Handbook 51
LEAVES FROM THE FOOL’S HANDBOOK
2. How to F ail in E veryth ing
Knock everything systematically. No matter what you
hear of, depreciate it and predict the worst. This will
build up an inferiority complex in yourself that will in­
evitably destroy any good thing in your life that you
otherwise might allow to slip by.
Mind everyone else's business. This will insure your
neglecting your own.
Try to please everyone, and take everyone’s advice.
This will leave your mind in complete chaos.
Try to live on bluff. You are certain to be found out
before long, and then no one will respect you again.
Believe everything you hear. Someone said it, so, of
course, it must be true.
When you get a good idea, run about and tell every­
one. This gives them a chance to discourage you by
throwing cold water on it, and it causes your own
spiritual energy to leak away like a “ ground” in an
electric circuit.
Never perform today what you can possibly postpone
until tomorrow.
Leave the important things to someone else instead
of seeing to them personally.
Make a point of arriving the day after the fair.
Have no organized arrangements. Trust to luck for
everything.
The day after the fire is the best time to insure.
£2
Si-
Avoid notebooks and rely on memory.
Never be original. Find out what is usually done and
copy that.
Realize that you have nothing more to learn. This will
destroy all danger of success.
Give yourself airs and high-hat everybody. This will
make you universally unpopular.
Sneer at those who are more successful than yourself.
This will have a particularly damaging effect on your
own life.
Tell yourself that it is now too late, and that you
really did not have the proper equipment; and it will
be especially helpful to keep saying that people are
against you.
Never learn from experience. Keep on doing the same
darn fool things time after time.
Never wait to hear the other side of the story. Know­
ing both sides will only unsettle your mind.
Use your wit destructively. Be smart at the expense
of absent people. This is sure to be carried to them and
will make enemies for you.
Stand on your dignity. Never forget that you have a
position to keep up, even if you have nothing to keep
it up on. Never do any work that is not just to your
liking. This policy should bring you safely into the
breadline.
Try to get everything on the cheap. Beat down every­
one. Study and practice to become the perfect “chiseler.”
This will build an invincible poverty complex.
Be a sanctimonious humbug, and when you bungle
L eaves from the Fool's H an dbook
things, say it is “ the Lord’s will” or that the trouble is
that you are too good for your surroundings.
Sit down and wait for something to turn up. This is
the sovereign recipe for failure.
Finally, conduct your life in all respects as if there
were no God.
A fool in the Bible usually means a person who will not make use
of the intelligence that God gives him. See Psalm 14:1; Proverbs
10:21; 18:2; 18:7; Ecclesiastes 7:6.
54 F ind and U se Y ou r Inner P ow er
LEAVES FROM THE FOOL’S HANDBOOK
3. How to D estro y Y our H ealth
Neglect your health completely. Take good care of
your dog and your horse and your automobile, but
your body is not important.
Fuss about your health all the time. Think of nothing
else. Carry a clinical thermometer and take your tem­
perature and your pulse every few hours. This sort of
thing will destroy any constitution.
Get emotional and excited over every trifling occur­
rence, especially if it is no concern of yours.
Eat and drink indiscriminately anything that comes
along. Your stomach is only a sink, anyway, and being
made of cast iron, will stand anything.
Cut down your sleep. This is an excellent way to
undermine the nervous system.
Never relax. That would give the body a chance to
recuperate.
Avoid all exercise. Exercise promotes circulation and
builds up health.
Breathe in shallow, irregular spasms. Deep, rhythmical
breathing renews the whole organism.
Be as critical as you can of others, and if possible try
to feel mean and resentful. This will be very helpful.
Read as much as you can about diseases and ailments
in general. Your public library will carry many suitable
books for this.
Discuss your own ailments at great length and, if you
5 5
have had an operation, give dramatic little lectures about
it at every opportunity.
Despise your body, or, better still, pretend you haven’t
got one at all. The Bible says that your body is the
Temple of the Holy Spirit, and to go against the Bible
is always a good short cut to trouble.
56 Find and Use Your Inner Power
T R E A T M E N T O R SCIEN TIFIC P R A Y E R
T
r e a t m e n t means knowing the Spiritual Truth about
any person or situation.
f, like most people, you believe that appearances are
realities and that they cannot be changed, then you can­
not give a treatment. But if you believe that Jesus was
right when he said, “Judge not according to appear­
ances but judge righteous judgment,” it is in your power
to change anything for the better and to heal most things.
Begin every treatment (no matter how many you
may give) by saying:
T r e a t m e n t can overcom e th is d if fic u l t y .
I HAVE NOTHING TO DEAL W ITH BUT M Y OWN THOUGHTS.
Then get to work on these thoughts and change them
— one by one if necessary—from error to Truth. Insist
on the good and harmonious character of Being. Insist
that God really is the only Presence and the only Power.
Remind yourself constantly that your own concept is
what you see, and that it is your business to change that.
Make “me” toe the line and show him that “I” am the
boss. Claim power as the child of God.
Be persistent. Do not take “no” for an answer, and it
can only be a matter of time before you are victorious,
57
CASTING THE BURDEN
E so m etim es hear the expression used, “ cast the
burden,” and it is useful to consider what this
phrase really means. Used intelligently, it is one of the
great keys to spiritual victory, but without intelligence
it is just a meaningless platitude. T o cast the burden
means really to insist upon harmony and peace of mind,
and to cease from worry and anxiety there and then.
This leaves you free to go about your business in a
serene frame of mind, following upon which, in due
course, you find your problem solved.
As a student of metaphysics you know that evil is an
unreal, temporary experience, and that fear is a bluffer.
You know that health, happiness, and joy are eternal and
are completely yours now. You know that because this
fact is the Cosmic Law of God it cannot be changed. No
O
matter what seems to have happened, harmony and per­
fection are the fact. And to hold on to this truth means
that experiencing the demonstration will only be a matter
of time.
If, when you are faced with trouble, whether it be old
or new, you can affirm positively the Harmony of Being
as expressed in the above paragraph, and then refuse to
reopen the case, no matter how much fear may urge you
to do so, you have cast your burden upon the Lord, and
you will win.
58
M Y ST E E R
Y
ou cannot claim too much for yourself provided
you claim the same thing for all other human beings.
In fact, it is your duty to claim all good things and to
continue claiming them until they demonstrate in your
outer experience. Claim health. Claim harmony and true
success. Claim happiness. Claim power to help and bless
others. Above all, claim power in prayer, the power to
demonstrate in your own life.
You need not be afraid that this policy can cause you
to be egotistical or selfish. On the contrary, it will make
you a blessing to all with whom you come in contact. Of
course, this law works both ways (it would not be a law
if it did not), and therefore you must be very careful not
to claim the negative things that you do not want.
On the western ranches the owner of a steer brands it
with his name, “Bar A Ranch” or some such cipher. Then
whenever he sees it he says umy steer.” If it should wan­
der into strange territory, it will always be returned to
him. His brand is on it and it belongs to him. On the
other hand, when an animal without his brand wanders
into his corral, he says, “That is not my steer,” and out it
goes.
Many a foolish person puts his mental brand on a steer
that he does not want in the least, and is surprised and
disappointed when the animal stays obstinately at home.
People say my rheumatism, my forgetfulness, my pov­
erty, et cetera, branding the steers they do not want in­
59
stead of disowning them and turning them out of the
corral.
Keep your mental branding iron for the things that
you want, and when you really want something, brand
it deeply with your own name and it will be yours.
60 F ind and U se Y ou r Inner P ow er
THE DOOR THAT OPENS IN
he door of the soul opens inward. That is often the
reason we do not make our demonstration. W e as­
sume that it opens outward and we press and push against
it as hard as we possibly can, seemingly oblivious of the
fact that we are really but closing it all the more firmly
against our good.
T o work in this way is really to use will power, which
is not treatment at all. It is simply trying to overcome
by human effort, and leaving God out.
Human nature is very prone to push blindly when
frightened or frustrated. Indeed, this is precisely why
the doors on all theaters and other public buildings are
obliged by law to open outward—because it is the nat­
ural direction of panic. Prayer, however, is essentially
the refusal to be rushed by panic or by the existing cur­
rent of things. In prayer, you must draw back from the
outer picture, cease to press against events, and realize the
Presence of God. The door of the soul opens inward.
W HY DOES NOT GOD . . . ?
M
ost of the difficulties that people experience con­
cerning religion are traceable to two or three
basic misunderstandings; and when once these points are
thoroughly cleared up it will be found that the majority
of such problems solve themselves.
The commonest mistake is to think of God as being
just a big man—very big, very wise, very good, but still
a big man— managing the world from the outside. Many
of us think we have gotten beyond this, but it turns out
that in our hearts we really have not. So we say: W hy
did God allow the World W ar to happen? W hy do we
have strikes, and floods, and riots? What about the ter­
rible civil war in Spain? W hy did God allow Aunt Jane
or Cousin George to suffer so tragically? Of course, this
really means, “ If I were God, I would have put these
things right,” and this in itself gives us a clue.
God is Infinite Mind, the great Over-soul; and man
is the individualization of the Great Mind, having intelli­
gence and free will, and therefore the power to make his
own conditions. When he uses his mental powers
wrongly, he produces fear, hatred, greed, and all kinds
of error, and these in turn demonstrate themselves as war,
sickness, poverty, et cetera.
The only way to abolish such evil things is to change
the race mind by getting rid of the negative thoughts
that cause them, and this can be done by Scientific Prayer.
Then these thoughts, having disappeared from people’s
minds, can no longer demonstrate themselves in the outer.
62
In other words, war, crime, and disease will vanish; and
those who are praying every day for the peace of the
world are now actually bringing this about.
You will see that this is the only way it can be done,
and that if an outside God could pull the strings in the
way thoughtless people wish, we should be only puppets
or marionettes. And then your life would not be the
Great Adventure that it is, and where would be the fun
of living?
Why Does Not God . . . ? 63
T H E M ILLS OF GOD
roTHER basic error which misleads many people is
this—They think of God and man in terms only of
the moment, or, at most, of a few years. They want to
see everything squared up and settled within a year or
two, and because this does not happen, they decide that
there is no justice in the universe, no law and order; and
they wonder why God does not step in and do some­
thing about it.
Now, you are going to live forever—somewhere. You
are going to live, not for a century or a thousand cen­
turies, but forever. And so you will see that a year or
two, or twenty or thirty years, is a very short time in
which to look for permanent results. The mills of God
grind slowly but they grind exceeding small. The gar­
dener does not say that there is no law in nature because
his crop does not come up a week after he sows it. W e
do not say that the railroad has broken down because the
train is not in Chicago half an hour after it leaves New
York; but we are often tempted to think that there is
no law of justice and righteousness because we do not
see the results of people’s good or evil deeds very soon
after they happen.
Whatsoever a man soweth, says the Bible, that shall
he also reap. This reaping takes time. If it seems to you
that in your own life you have not received your deserts,
the answer is that the end is not yet. If it seems that some­
one else known to you is not getting either the rewards
or the punishments that you consider him entitled to, the
answer is—the end is not yet. God is never mocked, and
sooner or later every prayer is answered. Every good
thought, or word, or deed produces its fruit of happi­
ness and spiritual advancement; and, of course, every
negative thing for which we are responsible will have
to be met and overcome also. Nature always takes her
time, and to understand her you must take the long view
too.
T h e M ills of G o d 65
P IK E ’S PEA K OR BUST!
T
here is no condition that cannot be overcome with
sufficient spiritual power. There is no problem that
can present itself to the mind of man which cannot be
solved with enough spiritual understanding. The very
fact that man can become conscious of a problem at all
is a proof that he can find a solution. W e are here on the
earth to solve these very problems, because in solving
them we develop our own spiritual faculties. Every diffi­
culty that comes into your life, every problem that pre­
sents itself to you, means that here is a point at which you
are to learn something.
Do not be an idolater and worship difficulties, as many
people do. When you say that some trouble is insur­
mountable, or that a problem is insoluble, you are an
idolater and you are denying your own divine selfhood.
Let nothing intimidate you. As the expression of God
you are more than equal to anything that may arise, if
only you have courage and faith.
Most heathen countries have a “ holy mountain.” This
really means that coming upon a particularly high and
inaccessible locality, the people lost their courage, al­
lowed themselves to be overawed, and, instead of
tackling and conquering the difficulty, they fell on their
knees in abject terror and rubbed their foreheads on the
ground, saying, “ Oh, holy mountain, do not hurt us.”
In America we have no holy mountains of this kind. It
is not our custom to grovel before difficulties, but to con­
quer them. Coming upon a fifteen thousand foot mourn
66
P ike’s Peak or B ust!
tain, the western pioneers did no groveling. Instead, they
said, Pike’s Peak or bust, and they got to the top of the
mountain and conquered it, instead of letting the moun­
tain conquer them. To do this is to glorify God, instead
of lapsing into idolatry.
Do not have any holy mountains in your life. Do not
allow any difficulty, no matter what it is, to scare you.
Say “Pike’s Peak or bust,” and go at it and conquer it.
The real H oly Mountain, as the Bible knows it, is the
uplifted consciousness which has dominion over all
things; never a mountain in the outer world.
6 7
DO N ’T T R Y —L E T
P
eople often say, “I try to do this,” or, "I try to do
that, but I fail,” or, “ I tried so hard but nothing came
of it,” and they become discouraged and dispirited. They
wonder why things will not come right. And yet the
explanation is contained within the words themselves.
You should never “ try” ; you should “let”—let God.
When you “ try” to do things, you are working from the
outside. When you let God do them through you, you
are working from the inside and success must come.
If you will re-read the creation chapter in the Bible
(the first of Genesis) you will notice that God creates
by “letting.” God said, “Let there be light.” God said,
“let,” at every act of creation, and it was done.
Now God creates by means of you if you will let him,
but you must let. Remember that in all mental working
effort defeats itself. The scientific way of working is to
“let” God manifest through you the wonderful ideas
which He gives to you from time to time.
Open your dictionary (in imagination) and scratch
out the word “try” and write the word “let” against it in
the margin.
Someone said, “Let go and let God,” and this is a won­
derful recipe for overcoming fear or getting out of a
tight place. In any case, the rule for creation is always
to let.
68
IT’S MORE FUN TO BE INTELLIGENT
I
t is your duty to God to run your life on intelligent
lines. God gives us all as much intelligence as we can
possibly need, but, unfortunately, in most cases we use
very little of it. W e apply our intelligence only here and
there in our lives instead of applying it at every point.
Ask yourself today if you are really conducting your
life intelligently. Are you eating and drinking intelli­
gently? Do you select your reading intelligently? Do you
spend your money intelligently? Do you use the power
of the Word intelligently by speaking only the positive
and constructive things you wish to demonstrate? Do
you think intelligently? Do you consider intelligently
the things that you hear, or do you just accept them un­
critically? Above all, do you bring intelligence to bear
on the religion which you profess, and judge it by that
standard alone?
Do you really exercise intelligence in carrying out
your daily work, whatever it may be? Do you seek to
approach each new problem as it arises, with intelligence
instead of mere emotion?
Have you intelligent plans for the future? Do you
know what you would really like to do or to be, and if
not, wouldn’t it be only intelligent to go to work and
find out, and then draw up an intelligent plan for gain­
ing your desire?
What the world most needs today is more intelligence.
There is plenty of good feeling and good will, but be­
cause people will not use enough intelligence, mankind
69
everywhere is in difficulties. The real solution for world
problems is for the mass of the people in every country
to apply intelligence—setting aside prejudice and blind
tradition—to political and economic problems; and when
this is done a solution will surely be found. Meanwhile,
each one of us can do this independently in his own life.
Your intelligence is the light of God in your soul. Do
not muddle. Do not drift. Use your intelligence. It is
more fun to be intelligent.
70 Find and Use Your Inner Power
COME OFF THAT BURNING DECK!
M
ost people still remember the old poem about the
Boy on the Burning Deck. That poem has a very
important lesson for us all, though not quite the one the
author intended.
The boy, you remember, stood still doing nothing,
although the ship was on fire; and so the fire went on
spreading until the ship finally blew up, killing all hands.
Of course, no other result could be expected with such
incompetent people on board, and it is no wonder that
the whole battle was lost, if this incident represented
the general spirit of the fleet.
An American or British boy would not have stood
there wailing, but would have organized a bucket chain
and put the fire out, or else taken whatever steps seemed
best under the circumstances, evacuating the ship if
necessary. And if any foolish sentimentalist had inter'
fered, such person would have been put under control
for his own and the public good.
Unfortunately, we come across a good many of these
spurious Burning Deck Heroes in private life. Instead of
attacking and overcoming their difficulties, they stand by
looking at them helplessly. In reality they lack the cour­
age and the intelligence to face up to the problem as it
should be faced, but they comfort themselves by pre­
tending that they are just being noble and self-sacrificing
—adding hypocrisy to weakness, and making the com-
plete failure inevitable.
If you ever catch yourself at anything like this—if you
7*
72 Find and U se Y ou r bin er P ow er
find yourself posing as a martyr—you must have no
mercy with such fatal weakness. Say to yourself: “ Come
off that burning deck; put the fire out; save the ship; and
win the battle.” And then it will be time to stand still and
look heroic.
DO N ’T FO RCE T H IN G S
ever force things. Never bring heavy pressure to
bear in a given direction. Never make up your
cnind that a. certain thing must be done, or that it must
be done now. All this sort of thing is dangerous, and is
likely to land you in trouble instead of improving mat­
ters. It is really using will power, and is unscientific and
unspiritual. It is looking to the without, whereas spiritual
demonstration looks to the within. It is what engineers
call a centripetal action, and spiritual demonstration is
always centrifugal.
What you really want is harmony and true expression
at every point in your life. The actual way in which this
comes does not matter so long as you get the thing itself.
When you encounter a firm resistance anywhere, it usu­
ally means that you are on the wrong road and had better
retreat and try another. Mental or material pushing will
only get you farther down the wrong road, and it gives
you a longer distance to retrace.
Claim that God works in you, and that when He
works He always succeeds; that He knows the best way
and is inspiring you to take it; that He meets no resistance
for He works with joy; and that you and your life are
part of that.
73
SPOTLIGHTS
He can who thinks he can.
Face the facts candidly—and then you can alter
them.
Grumbling is a certain sign of weakness. Don’t grum­
ble—change the condition.
The two keys of success are originality and hard work.
God will give you the first, through prayer; and the sec­
ond is up to you.
Unless you have confidence in yourself, you are licked
before you start.
Criticism of others is the hall-mark of failure.
Never resent jealousy; it is the height of flattery. No
one is ever jealous of a fool.
74
THE ONE THING THAT MATTERS
T
h e most important of all things to possess is Peace of
Mind. There is absolutely nothing else in the world
which is equal in value to that. Nothing else that life can
offer is so important, and yet it seems to be about the last
thing that many people work for. They strive both spir­
itually and materially for everything else under the sun,
whereas, if they had everything else, and still lacked
Peace of Mind, they would be miserable. If anyone
should come to you with a billion dollars in one hand
and Peace of Mind in the other, if you took the billion
dollars, you would be the most foolish person on earth.
Peace of Mind includes all other good things. If you
have this, it does not matter where you are or what sur­
rounding conditions may be—all will be well. Even if
the outer picture were an unpleasant one in itself, it
would cause you no grief if you had Peace of Mind, and
very soon that picture would inevitably change into
something better.
Peace of Mind is positively the greatest of all God’s
gifts. Pray for this and the rest will take care of itself.
“Peace I leave with you; my peace I give unto you,”
said Jesus, implying that this was the highest good he
had to give us. And truly, peace of mind is the one thing
that matters.
75
PRODUCED W ITHOUT REHEARSAL
S
omeone said that living your life is like playing a
violin solo in public and learning to play the in­
strument as you go along. This is a true saying. It de­
scribes the experience very well, but no one should worry
about that. W e are in this world for exactly that pur­
pose—to learn.
While you are learning you do not expect to produce
a perfect work. When you can produce a perfect work
you are a master and no longer a student. On this plane
we are all students, and what matters is that each year we
shall find the quality of our workmanship definitely bet­
ter, proving that we are a step nearer to mastership.
People are sometimes depressed because their lives do
not present a simple, logical, harmonious unfoldment;
because their histories seem to be full of inconsistencies,
repetitions, dead ends, and yawning gaps. This, however,
is only to be expected during the learning period. At the
beginning of the school year a child’s exercise book is full
of mistakes—at the end of the year there are hardly any
mistakes, which means that he has finished with that
grade, and is ready to go up higher. If the early weeks
showed an excellent copy-book, it would simply mean
that the student was in the wrong grade.
It is only on the stage (and then only in a good play)
that the action unfolds logically, evenly, tidily, com­
pactly, to its conclusion. But, then, the actors in a play
have no free will, for it has all been rehearsed many times.
Yow life has not been rehearsed. It is an adventure, and
a discovery, and a training, and it is only the Final Goal,
or last state, and not your present state that matters.
7 6
BLUEBEARD DRAWS THE LINE
W
e m a k e spiritual progress by putting God into
every corner of our lives. Most people on the
spiritual path are willing to give God ninety-five per
cent of their lives, but there is often one little corner that
they keep back. There is something or other they do not
want to change. There is one corner where they do not
wish the Divine Light to shine.
As often as not they are not fully conscious of this,
because the Old Adam is so subtle that he persistently
diverts their attention from the weak point. They refuse
to contemplate the fact, they make some feeble excuse
to themselves—or they postpone.
Bluebeard, you remember, kept open house, with the
exception of one little room— but there he drew the line.
His current wife, or any of the neighbors could go all
over the premises and welcome, until they came to that
one little room, the Bluebeard chamber; but that was
forbidden. Yet that one little locked-up room contained
the tragedy of the house.
See to it that you have no Bluebeard chamber in your
soul where the Divine Light is never allowed to pene­
trate. The contents of the Bluebeard room need not be
anything that we usually call horrible. It may just be
selfishness, laziness, spiritual pride, or any of the more
“ respectable” but very deadly sins. It may be an old
grudge or it may be prideful remose.
Open every door in the house of your soul to God.
Have no place where the light of His presence does not
shine.
77
GOD SAYS NOW
od’s time for your demonstration is now. The time
God wants you to be healed is now. The time God
wants you to be prosperous is now. The time God wants
you to have your right home is now. The time God wants
you to be in your True Place is now. The Bible says that
the Day of Salvation is now.
God is ready the moment you are. There is nothing
to wait for except the changing of your own conscious­
ness. People often make the mistake of saying, “I know
my demonstration will come at the right time.” But the
only time to be harmonious and satisfied is now. Never
postpone your good or you can go on doing so indefi­
nitely through all eternity. The time to be happy is now
and the place is here. Did not Jesus say, “ The Kingdom
of Heaven is at hand” ; and by this he meant close by.
Do not keep yourself out of the Kingdom of Heaven
by making excuses or inventing postponements, but go
to work and change your consciousness now, for it can
all happen in a moment.
7 8
THE MIXING BOWL
W
hen you make a cake, you know that whatever
you put into the mixing bowl will appear in the
cake itself; and, on the other hand, that unless a particu­
lar substance does go into the mixing bowl, it cannot
appear in the finished article.
Everyone realizes this clearly in connection with a
material object like a cake, but people often fail to see
that the same process applies equally in the realm of
mind. Such, however, is the case. The thoughts and be­
liefs that fill our minds ultimately appear in the cake
of experience, and to realize this is to save oneself a lot
of trouble. N o one puts kerosene in the mixing bowl
because no one wants it in the cake, for everyone knows
that, if it does enter the bowl, in the cake it will be.
Keep mental kerosene and other ill-tasting things out
of your mental mixing bowl rad then your cake will be
worth eating.
7 G
YOU ARE ALWAYS TREATING
Y
ou are continually “ treating” your conditions with
the thoughts which you hold concerning them.
What you really think about anything, is your “ treat­
ment” of that thing. Many people have the idea that they
are only “treating” when they call it “ treating,” but no
matter what you call it, your thought concerning any
subject is a treatment.
This is the reason visible conditions are always the
expression of invisible thought. This is the explanation
of the great truth that your own concept is what you
see.
Every day you treat your body, you treat your busi­
ness, you treat your family, and you treat the city and
the state and the nation and the world, by the kind of
thoughts you think concerning them.
If you will begin systematically to treat every side of
your life with a series of positive, correct thoughts, and
keep to this practice for even a few weeks, you will be
amazed to find how much everything will change for
the better.
80
TAKE GOD FOR YOUR PARTNER
h y not organize the business of living in a big
way? W hy creep along, as some people do, from
one tiny stepping-stone to another, instead of striding out
boldly? W hy be content with poor health, uninteresting
work, or restricted conditions, when many other people
have already risen above these things?
There is a way out of limitation that never fails. It is
simple. It calls for no formalities. It requires no money.
It is obvious enough when you realize it; but it is strange
how many people nevertheless overlook it. It is this,
take God for your partner.
If you will really make God your business partner in
every department of your life, you will be amazed at the
quick and striking results that you will obtain. I have
said that this partnership will cost no money, but I did
not say it would not cost anything. As a matter of fact it
will cost you a great deal, because the price will be your
whole life—but it will be worth it. O f course, if you
want God to be your partner, He will have to be the
Senior Partner, and you will have to include Him in
every corner and every phase of your life. If you are
prepared tc do this, the result will not be in doubt.
Most people would be thrilled to be able to go into
partnership with some great industrial or financial mag­
nate; they would feel that their future was assured. But
here is a partnership with Infinite Wisdom and Infinite
Power awaiting you. Take God for your partner.
81
THE DICTAPHONE
Y
our destiny depends entirely upon your own men­
tal conduct. It is the thoughts that you allow your­
self to dwell upon all day long that make your mentality
what it is, and your circumstances are made by your
mentality.
You may think that you know this already, but if you
do not act upon it, it is certain that you do not really
know it. As a matter of fact, most people would be
amazed to discover how much negative thinking they
do indulge in, in the course of a day. Thought is so swift,
and habit is so strong that, unless you are very careful,
you will constantly transgress. Even your conversation
may be much more negative than you suspect.
If such an experiment as the following were possible,
the result would probably fill you with amazement:
Suppose that, quite without your knowledge, an in­
visible and weightless dictaphone were strapped on your
shoulders the first thing tomorrow morning, and that
you carried it about with you all day until the last thing
tomorrow night, and that the disk therein recorded every
word you said. Then suppose that this dictaphone record
were played over to you so that every single word you
had uttered for a whole day was repeated to you in cold
blood. Well, if you are an average human being you
would probably be a little embarrassed. Yet it really does
happen that everything we say, and think, and do, is
recorded—in the subconscious mind—and our daily ex-
82
The Dictaphone 83
perience is simply that record being played over to us by
the Law of Being.
Never forget that the circumstances of your life to­
morrow are molded by your mental conduct of today.
A SPIRITUAL TREATMENT
A
s
piritual Treatment is a change of mind. When
the mind changes, the outer expression must
change to correspond; indeed Paul says, “W e are trans­
formed by the renewing of our minds.”
When a problem confronts us, then, the only thing
necessary is to change our minds concerning the matter
in question, and this we do by reminding ourselves of the
Spiritual Truth about it, and continuing to do so until
we get some degree of realization.
Often it is not possible to accomplish this at one at­
tempt, and so we repeat it as often as may be necessary,
until at last the goal is reached.
A Spiritual Treatment is a definite operation. Begin
it; finish it; and then leave it alone until the next time—
usually the next day. Do not nibble at the subject in
between treatments, but try to forget it.
Remember that to God no problem is difficult, and
that to Him conditions do not matter.
84
LET THAT DOG ALONE!
M
ind your own business” is a good rule. It would
probably be safe to say that more than half of the
evil in the world is due to well meaning busybodies who
just cannot refrain from interfering. Needless to say,
such people never have harmony or success in their own
lives, for it is an invariable rule that he who minds his
neighbor’s business, neglects his own.
All this is true, and we cannot recollect it too often,
but in the deeper sense it is equally true that what a man
minds—what he gives his attention to— always does be­
come his business, and sometimes his destruction. When
you interfere mentally in any condition, you involve
your life in it to the extent of that interference. When
you take sides mentally, or become emotional concerning
the matter, and still more when you talk about it, and
still more again when you do anything about it, you
are making yourself a party to it and will have to take
the consequences.
In other words, you cannot involve your thought in
any subject without bringing the natural consequences
upon yourself. You can call this involving yourself in the
karma of that situation, if you like, but whatever you
choose to call it, the fact will remain. T o interfere men­
tally in any situation involves you in the consequences
just as much as would a physical interference. Of course,
where it is your duty to concern yourself in any matter,
you must do so— constructively and spiritually— and
then the consequences to you can only be good.
85
86
The Bible says, “he that passeth by, and meddleth with
strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog
by the ears” (Proverbs 26:17). If» when those around
you are talking negatively about something or someone,
you chip in with your contribution to the witches’ brew,
you are taking a strange dog by the ears—so look out!
If you get emotionally entangled in what is not your af­
fair, through indignation, self-righteousness, hatred, or
otherwise, you have seized the dog again and you will
have to pay for it. If you rush about interviewing, tele­
phoning, busying yourself in the same spirit, you have
tackled the dog once more—and he will bite. And even
to think negatively concerning such matters in the secret
chamber of your own heart, will bring you proportion­
ate and natural punishment.
It is always right to think rightly about any person or
situation, and if you do this many opportunities will
come to you to help people practically too, without any
breach of the law we have been considering, and without
coming near the dangerous dog.
Find and Use Your Inner Power
ONLY YOUR OW N THOUGHTS
o matter what problem you may have to face
today, there is a solution, because you have noth-
ing to deal with but your own thoughts. As you know,
you have the power to select and control your thoughts,
difficult though it may be at times to do so. As long as
you think that your destiny is in the hands of other peo­
ple, the situation is hopeless. People say: “It is useless for
me to struggle because of such and such a reason. If only
I had a profession. If only I had married someone else.
If only I had not bought this business. If only I had gone
abroad when I had the chance”—and so on.
But this is a vital mistake, because you have nothing
to deal with but your own thoughts.
Remind yourself of this fact constantly. Repeat it to
yourself a hundred times a day until you really do begin
to grasp all that it means to you. Write it down where
you will see it often. Have it on your desk, or wherever
you work. Hang it in your bedroom where you will
easily see it. Write it in your pocketbook. Write it on
your sold, by constantly dwelling upon it. It will trans­
form your life. It will lead you out of the land of Egypt
and out of the House of Bondage. It will bring you to
God.
87
NO O FFICE HO URS
G
od has no office hours. There is never a time when
God is unavailable. Day or night, summer or
winter, God is always present; always ready to heal, to
comfort, to inspire. It is not possible that you could turn
to God in prayer without receiving help. It is not pos­
sible that you could ever find yourself anywhere where
God was not fully present, fully active, able and willing
to set you free from any difficulty.
The one thing required of you is that you shall turn
to Him whole-heartedly, and that you shall expect Him
to act. If you are not whole-hearted—if you pray with
the feeling that if it does no good, at least it can do no
harm—you can hardly expect results.
If you turn to God in prayer, without tension, with­
out vehemence, but quietly, steadily, and persistently, re­
sults will come. The greater the emergency, the easier
will it be to demonstrate; but you must be whole-hearted,
for the double-minded man is unstable in all his ways.
The most powerful of all prayers is simply “Be still,
and know that 1 am God.”
88
T H E SIN G LE E Y E
T
rue simplicity is the master-key of spiritual under­
standing. This simplicity will be found to inhere in
material conditions, but of course its fundamental root
lies in one’s mental outlook. Simplicity of thought will
naturally be reflected in a general simplicity in the way
of living and working. The heart that is fixed on many
different things is never at peace; and it is to the heart
at peace that the realization of God comes.
Mental simplicity consists in seeing the One Presence
everywhere—in all things. This is the Single Eye of
which Jesus spoke, and if we will but cultivate the Single
Eye, all the less important things will automatically fall
into place.
It is because we are all too involved in external and
unimportant details that we so often overlook the Great
Opportunity. Man will undergo incredible hardships in
his search for the Holy Grail—but when God puts the
chalice to his lips he too often pushes it roughly away.
89
THE MORON CLUB—PROMINENT MEMBERS
No. i. M r . A tlas
I
t is proverbial that the troubles which worry us most
are the ones we never have to meet. Countless people
have been killed by misfortunes that never happened
to them. This looks absurd on paper but it is tragically
true in life. Of all the types of foolish people, Mr. Atlas
probably takes the palm. Not satisfied with his own many
troubles (and Mr. Atlas is certain to have a great many
of his very own), he has to go about worrying over
everybody else’s problem too. The Greeks pictured him
carrying the whole world on his own shoulders, bowed
down under the intolerable weight, and this is a splendid
symbol of what many people are doing today.
Mind your own business, Mr. Atlas. Hoe your own
row, scrub your own door-step, and that will give you
quite enough to dc—if you do it properly. Do not try
to carry the burdens of the whole world. Such a policy
will destroy you and will not help the world.
Leave something to God. After all, it is He who is
responsible for the world, and not you. Has it ever oc­
curred to you that if you had never been bom, the world
would have had to get along somehow, and that God
would probably take care of everything quite well?
To worry over conditions that you cannot change is
gratuitous folly. T o get and to keep your own peace of
mind, to do your own duties well, and to see the Presence
of God in all men and things, is the surest way both to
90
help the world, and to make your own life divinely suc­
cessful too.
Drop that globe, Mr. Atlas, and staighten up, and look
at the sky.
P.S.—Does Mr. Atlas remind you at all of someone whose
name you often sign?
The Moron Club 91
THE MORON CLUB—PROMINENT MEMBERS
No. 2. M r s . F ix -It
S
he is probably the most energetic member in the
club, and is well in the running for the Presidency.
Everyone knows her, and few indeed have managed to
escape her attentions. She is indefatigable, inescapable,
unsnubbable. Nothing discourages her; to mere hints she
is impervious—she means so well. She doesn’t interfere
in cold blood, it is simply an instinct with her—she must
try to fix it. She has been interfering from the moment
of her birth, trying to put everything right, and, needless
to say, usually making things worse, doing more harm
than good in the long run.
She has a passion for putting the other fellow’s house
in order. In a very literal sense, I have known her when
a guest in a house actually to proceed to re-arrange the
furniture and the pictures, telling her hostess where she
was wrong.
Of course, she manages her entire family. Her brothers
and her sisters and her cousins and her aunts have to toe
the line—her line. She prescribes their diet, tells them
when they can afford a car and which model to buy;
or puts her foot down and says that for the present they
ought to walk. The education of their children is a con­
stant preoccupation with her, and she often tries to
censor their friendships too. God help her parents, for,
as a rule, no human power can save them. And her col­
leagues, if she is in business, and her associates elsewhere,
dread her approach, and flee if there is yet time.
92
The Moron Club
Mrs. Fix-it has her good points, of course. She is apt
to be as generous with her money as with her advice. She
is nearly always disinterested, wanting nothing for her­
self, sincerely desirous only of helping others. Her basic
error is love gone wrong, as love is so apt to, when not
balanced by intelligence. Give .Mrs. Fix-it the right
thought, but for heaven’s sake keep at a safe distance
from her.
P.S.—Does Mrs. Fix-it remind you at all of someone
whose name you often sign?
93
THE MORON CLUB—PROMINENT MEMBERS
No. 3. Sw eet A lice (Ben Bolt)
S
he is, of course, no longer an actual member, but
there is a beautiful plaque to her memory in the
lobby of the club. It is felt that her untimely demise
robbed the club of one of its most promising recruits.
You remember her peculiarity, of course. She was afraid
of everyone.
“She wept with delight when you gave her a smile,
And trembled with fear at your frown."
Nothing mattered to her except other people’s opinion.
Not what she was, but what other people thought about
her, was the important thing.
Modern medical science would have called this a case
of acute neurasthenia, and prescribed special diet, open
air exercise, et cetera; but our grandparents were merely
sentimental about it. After this we are not in the least sur­
prised to hear that
uShe lies under a stone."
Nothing else could be expected. Nor does it help a bit
that the stone is
aln cm old church-yard in the valley
though this was evidently thought to be important.
The fact that a beautiful air is attached to these foolish
verses only shows how a false sentiment will try to con­
ceal itself behind something good.
94
The Moron Club 95
Do not be a slave to other people’s opinion. Do what
you know is right, and care for no man’s censure. Serve
God and fear no one. It does not matter in the least
whether you please other people; it matters that you are
loyal to God and to your own soul. As a matter of fact,
those who are always trying to please everyone, seldom
succeed in pleasing anyone. They tear their emotional
natures to pieces instead of building serenity and poise.
With God on your side you can fearlessly look the
world in the face.
P.S.—Does Alice remind you at all of someone whose
name you often sign?
THE MORON CLUB—PROMINENT MEMBERS
No. 4. Se e -Saw Simpson
I
n a popular novel of the last generation, there was a
boy whom his comrades nicknamed See-Saw Simp­
son, because he was constantly changing his mind. He is
now a middle-aged man and has been a prominent mem­
ber of the club for many years; in fact, he is Second
Vice-President.
Brother Simpson never knows his own mind for
twenty-four hours at a time. He is usually of the opinion
of the last person who has talked to him, but not infre­
quently he switches again as soon as he is alone once
more. His drifting mentality simply cannot crystallize
in any direction, in the words of the Bible, he is cursed
with the curse of Reuben—unstable as water, thou shalt
not excel. He is sincere, good-natured, and well mean­
ing, but his character is so weak that he cannot take a
definite attitude on any point and hold to it. He has no
definite principles. He does not know where he stands
on any subject, nor does anyone else.
The natural consequence of all this, of course, is that
in business he has been a drifting failure, and that in all
social relationships he is sure to be the one who is over­
looked. No one trusts Brother Simpson because no one
ever knows what he will do next. It is impossible to make
satisfactory arrangements with him about anything, be­
cause the next time you see him he will have changed his
mind and let you down. And very likely he will soon
afterward change it back again.
q6
The Moron Club 97
Make up your mind. Do one thing or the other; but
in Heaven’s name do not see-saw about indefinitely. If
you take a decisive step, vou may be right or you may
be wrong; but if you see-saw about, you are certain to
be wrong.
If indecisiveness is your failing, practice making snap
decisions in the following way: When the occasion arises
say, the Christ is guiding me; and then do one thing or
the other quickly. Then stick to your choice, in spite of
any doubts you may have to the contrary. If you really
believe what you have said, that the Christ is guiding
you, your decision must be the right one. Keep this prac­
tice up for some weeks and, while you will make mis­
takes in the beginning, you will rapidly find yourself
making quick and almost effortless decisions which turn
out to be correct, and this will become a habit.
P.S.—Does See-Saw Simpson remind you at ail of some­
one whose name you often sign?
THE MORON CLUB—PROMINENT MEMBERS
No. 5. W ilbur W eakfish
H
e is easily the most popular member of the club.
Everyone likes him. He is so kind. Indeed, his
kindness is a by-word among his friends, and most of
them say he is the nicest man they ever met, a real good
sport with a heart as big as his body.
He is indeed very kind to almost everyone—and in
that “ almost” lies the tragedy, for it gives the other side
of the story.
Wilbur Weakfish is always popular with strangers
because he cannot say no to them. It is only those who
are nearest to him who ever hear that word. He is so full
of philanthropy that there is no room in him for the
word duty. He gives money to strangers because he can­
not say no, although his wife needs a winter coat. He
presents the club with a new set of bookcases for the
library, for which he receives an illuminated address of
thanks from the President, handed to him at a full meet­
ing—but the landlord does not get his rent for a couple
of months and the family is humiliated and threatened
with dispossession.
He likes to see his name high up on every subscription
list, but a large sum of money which he borrowed from
his brother nearly ten years ago has never been repaid;
and when his eldest boy was ready to enter college there
was no money for him, and he had to find a job instead.
W hy does he do it? People say it is because he is kind-
98
The Moron Club 99
hearted. Nothing of the sort. It is because he is selfish and
weak. He loves to be thanked effusively, to play Lord
Bountiful; and one does not get this for doing one's duty.
He cannot say no because he does not want to. He pre­
fers to enjoy himself at anyone’s expense.
P.S.—Does Wilbur Weakfish remind you at all of some­
one whose name you often sign?
THE MORON CLUB—PROMINENT MEMBERS
No. 6. C a l a m it y J an e
S
he is the most regular attendant at club meetings, but
even there she cannot be said to be popular, and
everywhere else she is disliked. She is almost an heredi­
tary member because her uncle, Dismal Daniel, was one
of the founders of the club, although he said at the time
that he did not think it could succeed. He underesti­
mated the potential membership.
Calamity Jane is a chronic pessimist. She sees the dark
side of everything immediately, and nothing else. She
always anticipates the worst. When anything new is
started, she says it cannot succeed, or that it is now too
late. And when things are obviously going well, she
shakes her head mournfully and says they are too good
to last. Her role in life seems to be to discourage, as far as
she can, everyone she comes across; and she is usually
fairly successful in this. She is a bom wet blanket; joy
cannot live in her presence. No matter how enthusiastic
people may be, Jane’s arrival lowers the temperature
toward zero.
According to Jane the country is shot to pieces and
cannot recover. The State in which she lives has no fu­
ture because the climate is bad and the soil is exhausted;
and her city, she says, is doomed, because it is badly situ­
ated anyway, and those who govern it are a bunch of
crooks.
O f course her own life is beset with constant difficul-
ioo
The Moron Club IOI
ties. Her health is poor. She grumbles ceaselessly about
her whole digestive tract, which is naturally in a bad
way, and causes her daily torment; and she says there is
no hope for it because it runs in the family and that her
uncle Daniel had just the same trouble. Her financial and
business affairs are so involved that they make her life a
constant misery. She never knows where next month’s
rent is coming from, and sometimes this applies to last
month’s rent as well. Of course she can no more have
prosperity than she can have health, with the mental
model she has built for herself. But she seems incapable
of realizing this, and goes on destroying her own health,
happiness, and prosperity day after day. She is the only
enemy that she has in the world.
P.S.—Does Calamity Jane remind you at all of someone
whose name you often sign?
DOG HOUSE FOR SALE
T
he second best prayer ever written is the Scotsman’s
prayer— “Lord, give us a good conceit of ourselves.”
You cannot have too much respect for yourself. You
cannot have too much confidence in yourself. You can­
not claim too much for yourself. But remember, that you
must realize these things as being the expression of God
in you and not independent qualities of your own. You
must also accept them as being true for every other
human being.
Nothing but failure can come of self-depreciation.
Thinking of yourself as “ a worm and the son of a worm”
is the quickest way to demonstrate a wormy existence.
Crawling about mentally can only be the prelude to
crawling about spiritually, morally, and even physically.
Affirm your Divine Selfhood, look the world in the face,
and fear nothing.
O f course it is true that stupid people can get the
malady called “swelled head”—and this always ends in
a fall—but the realization of one’s Divine Selfhood never
gives swelled head. It gives wisdom, balance, poise, and
steady progress.
Claim your Divine, Glorious Selfhood. Think it, talk
it, live it, and it will demonstrate itself in your life. Come
out of the mental dog house and move into the palace
not made with hands— the palace of mental poise, divine
wisdom, and true satisfying success.
\oi
DON’T TALK ABOUT IT
ever tell people about the fine thing you are going
to do, but wait until you have done it, and then
show them the completed article. Never point to an
empty lot and say: “I am going to build a tower there” ;
but wait until the edifice is complete, and then if you
like, say: “Look at the tower I have built.” But when the
tower is there it will not really be necessary to say any­
thing at all, because it will speak for itself.
Talking about your plans before they have actually
materialized, is the surest way to destroy them. It is a
universal law of nature that the unborn child is protected
from all contact with the world; in fact this is the real
function of motherhood. Now the inspiration that
comes to you is your child; you are its mother; and
nature intends that you should protect and nourish that
idea in secrecy and shelter, up to the moment when it is
ready to emerge upon the material plane. To chatter or
boast about it is to expose it to the world and kill it.
This applies to any new enterprise that you may be
contemplating, as well as to a new idea. An important
business deal, for instance, a large sale, the buying of a
house, the forming of a partnership, should be protected
in the same way. Don’t discuss these things at the lunch­
eon table, or anywhere else.
Keep your business to yourself. Of course it is quite
permissible to consult experts, and to reveal your plan
where it is absolutely necessary to do so. This is nour­
ishing the idea, not exposing it. It is chatter, gossip, and
boasting that are to be avoided. In quietness and con­
fidence shall be your strength.
m3
W HAT DO YOU WANT?
trong wish for something is the Voice of God in
your heart urging you to take the next step for­
ward. That is the way in which the Great Mind is com­
municating with you at the moment. A strong wish is a
sacred thing to be received with the greatest respect
and handled with the highest wisdom.
Many people have the false idea that their own wishes
are sure to be mistaken and contrary to the W ill of God.
On this ground they repress all such wishes automatically
and wait about for God to do something. This policy
means complete stagnation and disappointment.
A strong wish is the Voice of God. It is true that you
may be misinterpreting it in general, or misunderstand­
ing it in detail, but that can be corrected by praying
for wisdom. It is probable that ninety per cent of your
wishes are fundamentally right, and for any right wish,
there is a fulfillment, because demand and supply are
one.
Leave the details to God, but pray systematically for
the general idea. For instance, if a townsman has a
strong and continued wish to live in the country, he
should pray for this to happen, but he should not con­
centrate on a particular house or farm. If a man has a
strong and continued wish to start a business of his own,
this is probably the Voice of God, and that Voice should
be answered with systematic prayer—but he should not
concentrate on a particular shop or even a particular
locality.
True wishes have wings and will bear you to your
heart’s desire.
W HAT THEN?
N
othing is really worth worrying about. Nothing
is really worth getting angry or hurt or bitter
about. Positively nothing is worth losing your peace of
mind over.
These important truths follow logically upon the fol­
lowing fact:
You are going to live forever—somewhere. This means
that there is plenty of time to get things right again if
they have gone wrong. No matter what unpleasant thing
has happened, prayer can set it right sooner or later. N o
matter what your difficulty may be it is only a question
of enough prayer, and that difficulty will dissolve. N o
matter what mistake you may have made, enough prayer
will overtake it and cancel it—so why worry? If those
you love seem to be acting foolishly, you can help
them with prayer to be wiser, and, meanwhile, if they
suffer, it means that kindly nature is teaching them a
lesson that they need to learn. When they have learned
that lesson, they will quit, and behave rightly—and so
forth.
But supposing something awful should happen! Well,
what then? If it did, God is stronger than anything
“awful,” and can put things right again as the result
of prayer. Suppose you got sick. What then? God can
heal you. Suppose you lost everything and landed in
the poorhouse. What then? Think what a wonderful
demonstration you could make out of there and you
would probably learn several valuable lessons there, and,
anyway, it would be quite interesting. Suppose you lost
your heart’s delight. What then? You cannot lose what
10 5
io6 Find and Use Your Inner Power
really belongs to you. So God will bring it back more
wonderful than ever. Suppose the whole universe blew
up. What then? Let it blow up, and when the dust
settles, God will still be in business and you will be alive
somewhere, ready to carry on through prayer and under­
standing. So don’t worry.
REMEMBER LOT’S WIFE
N
ever look back. Always go right ahead. Even if
you are quaking, go right ahead, and quake as
you go. Jesus said the man who puts his hand to the
plow and then turns back, is not worthy of the King­
dom of Eleaven. He also said: “ Remember Lot’s wife.”
The story of Lot’s wife is one of the most telling
parables in the Bible. Lot and his family were fleeing
from a city that was just about to be destroyed. They
were told by an angel that they would get away safely
provided they did not look back. The others obeyed
the injunction and escaped, but Lot’s wife looked back—
and was immediately turned into a pillar of salt. Salt in
the Old Testament is a symbol for death, and this means
that those who look back are dead spiritually and that
usually their material affairs become stagnant too.
Never look back. No matter how unattractive or how
dangerous the road ahead may be, it is better than the
road back. The road ahead may mean difficulty, but the
road back means failure. The road ahead may be veiled
from sight; but you must teach yourself to regard the
unknown as friendly.
Remember that God is always at the end of the road
ahead, but at the end of the road back you will only
find yourself.
10 7
THE ETERNAL INCARNATION
C
hristmas is the festival of the rebirth. Sooner or
later we all have to be born again as Jesus said,
because it is no use trying to patch up the old man.
The way of salvation is to let a new man be born. This
new birth is brought about by realizing our essential
oneness with God, and this is the real meaning of
Christmas.
That this can be done, that we can really become the
conscious expression of God, is the most wonderful news
in the world, and that is why it is called the Gospel.
For the same reason, everyone should be happy at
Christmas; and the best way to be happy yourself is to
make others happy. To find the Christ in yourself is to
find It in all others too.
Most people have some extra leisure at Christmas
time. This year try the experiment of spending some
of that time in definitely seeking the Wonder Child in
yourself. Think about it, affirm it, listen for the re­
sponse. The reason so many people miss the Best Thing
in Life is that their hearts are so cluttered up with the
intimate details of everyday living that there is no room
for the one thing that matters. The Christmas holiday
is an ideal time to prepare your soul for the great in­
carnation. Seek, and you shall find.
108
T R U E PLA CE A N D R IG H T PLACE
T
here is a vital difference between your True Place
and your Right Place which everyone should un­
derstand.
Your True Place is the place where God intends you
to be. In that place you will have great happiness, good
health, and real prosperity, and you will be living an
active and interesting life. That place is waiting for you
somewhere, and the wonderful thing about it is that no
one but yourself can fill it. Positively no one else on
earth but yourself can fill your True Place adequately.
Your Right Place in life is the place you are actually
in at the moment, whether it is pleasing to you or not.
You are always in your right place because you are
always in the place that corresponds to your mentality
at the moment; but this may not be your True Place. If
your conditions are unwelcome, it means that there is
something in your mentality that needs to be changed.
Change it, and then the outer conditions will change too.
The sick man is in his Right Place in bed, because he
has a sick mentality, but it is not his True Place, and his
business is to change his mentality—heal his mind, in
fact. When he is healed, bed will no longer be his Right
Place. The man in the bread-line has a poverty con­
sciousness at the moment, and suffers the natural conse­
quences, but it is not his True Place; and Scientific
Prayer will set him free too. The man in jail is a like
case, and so on.
You glorify God by working upon yourself until
your Right Place and your True Place become one.
109
CRITICISM versus DISCRIMINATION
P
ersonal criticism is one of the dead weights that
hold us in limitation. The sole reason why some
people do not get their healing, or find their True Place
in life, is that they constantly indulge in personal criti­
cism—mental, if not spoken. Here you have an infallible
test of your spiritual progress—How fast are you over­
coming personal criticism? Unless you are trying to get
rid of this you need not expect health, happiness, or
freedom.
Now, this does not mean that we are not to exercise
discrimination. Wise discrimination is an expression of
Divine Intelligence. Of course, we must distinguish be­
tween good quality and poor quality everywhere, or
where would be the joy of living. W e must distinguish
good conduct from bad conduct, good music from bad
music, wisdom from stupidity, truth from error; and,
indeed, it is our first duty to do this. We must dis­
tinguish truth from error all day long, separating the
sheep from the goats, if we are to be true witnesses for
God. But this is obviously quite a different thing from
personal criticism. Condemn the sin but not the sinner.
Deprecate foolish conduct but do not hate the foolish
one for it. Rather help him with the right thought. If a
singer sings a false note, of course, you must recognize
the fact, but do not censure him unkindly. If a friend
is doing what you know to be wrong, you cannot con­
done the wrong, but you can see the Christ in him, and
I IO
you may even point out the error to him if you are en­
titled to do so.
Under any circumstances you must keep your own
thought poised, tolerant, and kindly. Remember the
Golden Rule.
Criticism versus Discrimination h i
HOW MUCH OCEAN?
ivine Mind is infinite and within it are infinite re-
sources—infinite Life, infinite Love, infinite Wis-
dom, infinite Power, and infinite Substance. The only
question is, how much of these things can you appropri­
ate for your use?
How much Intelligence can you assimilate and make
use of? How much Understanding can you grasp? How
much Divine Love can you experience? How much
Divine Substance can you make your own? The supply
is inexhaustible; the only limit lies within yourself.
When you go down to the seashore, you find what is
practically an unlimited supply of sea water at your
disposal. There are billions upon billions of gallons there,
but the amount which you can carry away will depend
upon the vessel with which you have provided yourself.
If you take a ten gallon can, you can get ten gallons,
but if you take only a pint pot you can take away only a
pint, and if you had nothing bigger than a thimble, you
would not be able to take away more than a thimbleful.
So it is with divine abundance. The only limit is the
limit of our capacity to receive.
112
FR ID A Y H AD SO M ETH IN G T H E R E
R
obinson C rusoe found a primitive savage on his
lonely island, and, having made friends with him,
he succeeded in teaching him enough of the English
language to enable them to exchange ideas. Crusoe being
a seventeenth century Englishman, the conversation
naturally turned to theology before long, and he sur­
prised and mystified that simple Blackamoor with the
far-fetched and illogical doctrines on which he himself
had been brought up.
He told Friday that there is a God who is entirely
good, and that He has boundless wisdom and infinite
power. Friday readily assented to this, but when Crusoe
went on to explain that there was also a personal devil
who constantly hindered and spoiled God’s work, in­
terfered with the scheme of creation, and in many cases
even brought about the eternal destruction of God’s
own children, the thoughtful savage brought him up
short. “W hy not God kill the devil and fix everything
right, if he can do anything?” said Friday, and to this,
needless to say, the theological Crusoe had no answer.
Defoe’s masterpiece is really a metaphysical study.
Robinson Crusoe is each one of us, and on the solitary
island of our own soul we must sooner or later face up
to and solve such fundamental problems as this, if we
desire peace of mind and the mastery of life.
The truth of course is that evil is but a false belief
(terribly real looking and capable of causing us unlimited
1*3
suffering while we do believe in it, yet only belief), and
that the action of God does constantly destroy it and
bring about harmony, whenever we pray scientifically
by realizing His Glorious Omnipresence. “ In Thy Pres­
ence is fullness of joy.”
1 14 Find and Use Your Inner Pozver
M ERRY-GO -RO U N D
A
lmost everyone has, at some time or other, taken e
L ride on a Merry-Go-Round. No fair ground is
complete without one even today, and they will prob­
ably endure as long as the swings and the coconuts.
N ow the remarkable thing about the Merry-Go-
Round is this: You climb up on a horse, and off you go.
There is a tremendous amount of rattling and vibration,
a wonderful sense of movement, and terrific noise and
bustle. On, on you go, and, finally, when it comes to rest,
you find that you have arrived—exactly at the spot
from which you started. All that bustle and movement
and excitement—and you have not advanced one inch.
You are exactly where you began.
Unfortunately many people conduct their lives in
just this manner. They expend any amount of energy,
make a good deal of noise, and imagine they are getting
somewhere; only to find after all that they are just where
they started out. This is what happens when we rely
upon will power to solve our problems. There is much
noise and movement, but no progress. The man you are
at the moment can only go round in the circle of your
present problems, no matter how much noise he may
make about it. In order to solve your problems you must
become a different man, and that you can only do by
prayer or treatment.
A different man cannot have these problems—they
do not belong to him.
It is a pity that the lives of so many people should be
just a Merry-Go-Round or, rather, what in practice turns
out to be a Sad-Go-Round, for such things are not
really necessary. If you find yourself the victim of this
condition you can break the vicious circle if you will
cease to struggle mentally and, instead, turn to God
in prayer. Acquaint thou thyself with Him and be at
peace.
ii 6 Find and Use Your Inner Power
GO D M U ST L IV E IN YO U
Y
our own m entality has all power to make your
life into anything good or bad. This is the great truth
.¿bout man. Your own mentality makes your body what
it is. If you have a damaged organ, that damage is caused
by your own mentality; and if you change your thought
about it, it will be healed. If your surroundings are un­
pleasant, that unpleasantness is caused by your own
mentality; and when your mentality changes, the sur­
roundings will change too. If your problem is lack, that
lack is caused by your own mentality; and if you change
your mentality, prosperity will come.
You are not really affected by other people, or by
habit, or climate, or the market, or the administration,
or the world situation, or by any other conceivable
cause except your own mentality.
Divine Life has to be expressed by Life thoughts in
you if it is to heal you. Divine Love has to become a
sense of love in your or
um heart if it is to heal you—or
anyone else by means of you. Divine Intelligence has
to become conscious understanding in your mentality
if it is to guide and save you. Divine Peace has to be
experienced in practice by you before it can change your
life.
These qualities must be made a part of your own men~
tality before they can affect your life. Thinking of them
as merely belonging to an outside God can do nothing
for you. Jesus warned us that the Kingdom of God is
within.
WHAT JESUS CHRIST TAUGHT
T
h e principal points in the Jesus Christ teaching are
the Omnipresence and Availability of God, and the
belief that because God not only transcends His uni­
verse but is everywhere immanent in it—that He in­
dwells in it—it must in reality reflect His perfection.
It is prayer which opens the door of the soul so that
the Divine Power may work its will to harmony and
peace.
Jesus Christ taught that physical ailments are really
maladies of the soul outpictured on the body, and that
with the healing of the soul accomplished, the healing
of the body must follow. The soul is vivified by drawing
closer to God through prayer and meditation, and by
changing one’s outer conduct to bring it more com­
pletely in harmony with God’s law.
Jesus Christ taught the efficacy of Scientific Prayer
to reshape one’s whole life for health, harmony, and
spiritual development. By Scientific Prayer is meant the
Practice of the Presence of God.
118
PRAYER IS THE REMEDY
Reynember that the one thing that matters is prayer.
Time spent in prayer is never wasted. If you do not pray,
you cannot expect results.
You may say, “ I do not actually pray much, but I
keep my thoughts right all day.” This is self-deception
of a deadly kind. If you were keeping your thought
right, you would find yourself giving much time to
prayer. Pray definitely for yourself every day or you
will get nowhere.
If you are fearful, or worried, or tired, or discouraged,
or hurried, or disappointed, or in pain, God is your sure
remedy—so pray.
If only you will pray faithfully and regularly, and
try to live up to the best that you know, it is only a
question of time before all troubles, all doubts and fears,
all sad memories, all mistakes, will fade away forever,
and perfect peace and joy come into your life.
T19
SPO TLIG H TS
F
or heaven’s sake, come to the point—and then keep
to the point. Don’t beat about the bush. Don’t go
from New York to New Jersey by way of Europe and
Australia.
Cultivate a sense of humor. Look for the funny side
of everything. It is always there, and will help you to
meet any situation. Laugh at yourself at least once before
ten o’clock every morning.
You cannot “thumb your way” into heaven; you
must work your passage.
N ot too much of anything.
If you love your country, don’t break her laws.
It is said that the man who can hold his tongue can
hold anything.
Radiate happiness, and you help and inspire everyone
you meet. Cultivate happiness, and then you must radiate
it, for it cannot be concealed. Misery can be hidden, but
happiness can no more be kept a secret, than garlic can.
120
COFFEE FOR THREE
W
e m ake mental laws for ourselves and then we
have to live under them. Unfortunately, it too
often happens that these are laws of limitation. We sug­
gest a disability to ourselves, or someone else does it for
us, and before we realize what has happened it has be­
come an almost sacred dogma—yet it is only suggestion,
and with a change of belief we can be free.
A young doctor and his wife were entertaining a
visiting relative. After dinner coffee was served, where­
upon the visitor said excitedly, “John, you know I can­
not drink coffee! The nicotine in it keeps me awake all
night.”
The wife was about to speak but her husband signaled
her with his eyes, and said, “ I assure you, my dear aunt,
there is no nicotine in this coffee.” The visitor replied,
“ There is always nicotine in coffee, and it keeps me
awake the whole night.” The host then said, “ M y dear
aunt, I assure you upon my word of honor as a doctor,
that there is no nicotine in this coffee.”
The old lady, who had the highest regard both for
her nephew’s professional qualifications and for his per­
sonal integrity, was satisfied; and thereupon drank three
large cups of coffee, enjoyed them immensely—and
slept like a top all night.
Naturally, there can be no nicotine in coffee; what
the old lady meant was caffeine, but she said nicotine.
Of course, one does not approve of the deception em-
122 Find and Use Your Inner Power
ployed— deception is never legitimate—but the story il­
lustrates perfectly the power of good and bad suggestion.
The old lady first made a law of limitation for herself,
and then repealed it without any trouble.
W hy not start today and repeal some of the many
such laws you are sure to have made for yourself.
LOOK WHERE YOU ARE GOING
Iook where you are going because you will inevitably
j go where you are looking. Where your attention
is; there is your destiny.
Attention is the key to life. Whatever you really give
your attention to, you become. Whatever you really
concentrate upon will come into your life. W e grow
into the thing that fills our thoughts, as inevitably as the
stream merges into the ocean at last.
The Bible says that as a man thinketh in his heart, so
is he. It does not say simply as a man thinketh, but as he
thinketh in his heart, and this means thinking 'with in­
terest or feeling.
It has been said that we grow like the thing we admire;
but since we are certain to think a good deal about what
we really admire, this is only another way of saying
that we become the thing to which we give our atten­
tion.
This law is often illustrated most amusingly in practical
life. The “horsy” man with his equine looks, is known
to us all. Kipling speaks of a Newfoundland fisherman
who appeared for all the world like a great codfish him­
self; and Dickens speaks of a pedantic old lawyer who
looked just like an animated roll of parchment. Keep
your eyes open for these amusing dramatizations, and
be sure to take to heart the tremendous lesson that they
teach.
123
H E B E A T T H E CARD S
F
rom some points of view, the story of your life may
very well be compared to a game of cards. In any
card game a hand of cards is dealt to you, and it is then
up to you to play those cards as you think fit.
Some people receive an excellent hand from the dealer,
but they play their cards so foolishly that they lose the
game, notwithstanding. Another person will receive a
very poor hand, but by playing wisely and carefully,
finish up by winning the game against all odds.
So it is with the game of life. Some people start out
seemingly with every advantage that nature or circum­
stances can confer, but they play this splendid hand so
badly that they wind up in failure and disappointment.
Others appear to receive the poorest kind of hand from
the Great Dealer—very few trumps—but by the exercise
of wisdom, common sense, industry, and, above all,
prayer, they play this poor hand so successfully that
when the game is over, they have achieved a brilliant and
lasting success, and carried off all the “chips” of life.
No matter what sort of hand you may have been
dealt, and no matter what mistakes you may have made,
the round is not yet over and you may still make a real
success of your life, if you will begin today to play your
cards scientifically.
124
SPIR ITU A L JIT T E R -B U G S
T
he best way to study metaphysics is to find the
teacher or center that seems to appeal most to you;
and then concentrate upon that method for a reasonable
length of time. If, after such a reasonable period of trial,
you decide that that method is not for you, select an­
other one and give that a fair trial in turn, but do not
run about from one method to another.
Some people rush around from teacher to teacher and
center to center, sometimes going to half a dozen dif­
ferent places in a week, until their minds are in complete
chaos. N o one gets anywhere through this sort of thing.
Such people are not students of metaphysics—they are
spiritual jitter-bugs.
If you were studying voice, for example, and you
tried to follow three or four methods at the same time,
you know what would happen to your singing; and
the study of metaphysics is in many respects comparable
to the study of music.
Never forget that you owe no duty to any teacher,
any church, any center, or anything else, except to your
own Indwelling Christ. It is your sacred duty to leave
any teacher (no matter how much you may respect him
or her personally) when you find a better one; but while
you are working a particular method you will do well
to concentrate upon it exclusively.
125
ONE SPANKING SHOULD BE ENOUGH
G
reat souls learn great lessons from small events.
W e lesser fry should reflect upon this fact, and
endeavor to extract from our experience the lesson that
it is certain to contain.
Nothing can happen to you unless it finds some kind
of correspondence in your own mentality, and it fol­
lows from this that every seeming misfortune is but a
signal of something wrong within. When something
happens to vex or harass you, refuse to be thrown off
your balance; analyze the thing dispassionately; find out
where you made the mistake, and resolve never to repeat
that false step. Charge the present grief to “experience”
in vour mental books, and consider it well worth while
for the lesson you have received. In this way you will
make continuous and rapid progress toward Peace of
Mind and True Place.
Foolish people make the same mistakes over and over
again and are punished afresh every time, but for the
intelligent student of life, one spanking is usually enough
for the same mistake.
126
LIFE IS C H A N G E
I
se e the Angel of God in every change.” This is an
affirmation that you should have written inside the
cover of your pocketbook and also in some prominent
place at home where you will often see it. It is one of
the keys of a harmonious and progressive life. Especially
in these critical times, it will stand out in your life like
a lighthouse in a stormy sea. Change is the law of growth;
and growth is the law of life. Without change there can
be no growth, and without continual growth, life fades
out of any form, leaving what we call death.
There is no greater mistake than to be afraid of change,
and yet many intelligent people dread it and cling to
what is customary and familiar. T o be afraid of change
is to doubt the providence of God. It is an unintelligent
fear of the unknown. If it were not for the blessing of
change, men would still be primitive savages living in
caves, and you yourself would still be a child mentally
and physically, would you not?
Welcome every change that comes into any phase of
your life; insist that it is going to turn out for the better
—and it will. See the Angel of God in it, and that Angel
will make all things new.
127
W E A R E A L L O N E
hristmas is really the festival of human brother-
hood. This is the season when we remember our
essential unity; the time when old grudges are forgiven
and forgotten; the time of family reunions; and the time
of remembrance of absent friends.
This essential unity of the human race is a much
deeper and more real thing, however, than most people
yet suspect. The truth is that in the most literal sense,
we are all one. Really there is but one man—generic
man—and we are all but expressions of him. In absolute
truth, I am you and you are I, for there is but one. M y
next door neighbor is really myself; the man I pass on
the street is I; the hero that I admire is really I, and the
most degraded criminal—is really I, too.
Those who believe in reincarnation have grasped a
cosmic truth— but as a rule their understanding of it is
still incomplete. What may be called concurrent rein­
carnation is the final truth on the subject.
One being, the Son of God, is incarnated in about two
thousand million separate bodies on the earth, and this
adventure we know as the human race—the incarnation
of humanity.
128
SPO TLIG H TS
^ ~ ^ od always knows the answer.
God never hurries.
Minutes spent in praying for wisdom will save hours
spent in overtaking your mistakes.
Trying to pray, is praying.
The two poles of life are intelligence and love. Unite
them in every activity.
W hy does not the other fellow demonstrate? That’s
his business.
Do not expect to begin your treatment with a realiza­
tion. Be thankful if you get it when the work is done.
I2Q
TREAT THE TREATMENT
S
piritual treatment is really knowing the Truth about
a given condition. There appears to be something
wrong; someone is sick, or there is inharmony, or per­
haps lack; but instead of accepting this, you remind
yourself of the Truth. This reminding oneself of the
Truth is a very powerful treatment, because in this way
we do not try to wrestle with the evil, but we know
that it is not there.
The truth about life is that all is perfect, utter, un­
changing harmony, because God is the only Presence
and the only Power. As a student of metaphysics you
know this; and often merely reminding yourself of it
brings a quick and beautiful demonstration. Of course
there are, however, so-called “ chronic” cases in which
the student, despite all he can do, seems to make no
progress.
I have known some obstinate and long standing diffi­
culties to be overcome by the following method: Give
one final and definite treatment for the difficulty in ques­
tion by reminding yourself of the Spiritual Truth con­
cerning it, and then— do not treat about the problem
again but treat the treatment whenever you feel inclined
to. Do this by claiming that that treatment was a Divine
activity and must be successful. Claim that God worked
through you when you gave the treatment and that
God’s work must succeed. Insist that your treatment,
being a Divine activity, cannot be hindered by any
1 3 0
Treat the Treatment *3*
seeming difficulties or material conditions. Give thanks
for its perfect success, and mean what you say.
This is “treating the treatment,” and you may do this
as often as you like. It has none of the disadvantages that
are apt to arise from treating the problem itself too often.
TAKING THE TRAIN TO BOSTON
T
rue mental relaxation is just as important as right
mental activity. Wise relaxation and wise activity
are the balanced poles of all true action. Today most
people realize the necessity for learning to relax physi­
cally if health is to be maintained, but even students of
metaphysics are not always clear on the need for mental
relaxation too.
Many people are constantly subjecting their minds to
totally unnecessary wear and tear. They rehearse past
troubles mentally; and often they even rehearse trouble
which they think is likely to happen tomorrow or next
week, thereby helping to bring it upon themselves. They
indulge in violent mental arguments with absent people.
They cross all kinds of bridges mentally hundreds of
miles before they reach them.
W e speak colloquially of “taking the train” somewhere
—and actually many people who ride in trains do take
the train mentally the whole journey. And that is why
so many people are quite worn out when they arrive at
their destination. The New Yorker who “takes the train”
to Boston in this way, gets in at Grand Central, sits down
uneasily (not even relaxing physically), and immediately
begins to wonder whether the train will arrive on time.
He wonders whether he will be able to find a Red Cap
promptly. In imagination he dashes about the platform in
Boston looking for a porter. He runs (mentally) up the
steps to the street level. If he knows the city, he dashes
mentally through the streets to the place of his appoint-
H2
ment. Coming back momentarily to the present, he
glances at his watch and looks out the window to see how
far the train has got—and he keeps this up for the four
or five hours of the journey.
Many years ago I noticed that when a train arrives in
the terminal from a long run, the locomotive men always
seem to come off the train looking fresher than most of
the passengers; although they have been working and
the passengers have not. This, of course, is the explana­
tion. For the engineer and fireman it was only a routine
day’s work. They did not dream of trying to “ take the
train” mentallv—they let the engine take it. The passen­
gers who were in a mental turmoil most of the time were
trying to take the train and suffered the consequences.
Taking the Train to Boston 133
IT’S HARD IF YOU THINK IT IS
T
he value that any experience has for us is the value
that we put upon it in our thought. A little reflec­
tion will show that this is true throughout the whole
gamut of human experience. The same unpleasant hap­
pening that one man will laugh off and forget, will to
another man mean a broken heart followed by death.
A “big” difficulty is what we consider big. T o God
there are no big and no little demonstrations. Big and
little are qualities that lie in our own thought. T o heal a
dying man seems a big demonstration to us, and to heal
a cut finger seems a little demonstration; but to God one
is no more difficult than the other.
If we believed that it was as easy to raise the dead as to
heal a cold, we could do it as easily. If wre believed it was
as easy to demonstrate a house as to demonstrate a lead
pencil, we should demonstrate a house as easily as a pencil.
Minimize the problem you are treating. Do not give
it importance in your thought. Do not try too hard. A
positive, constructive, don’t-care feeling is very valuable.
And the less hurry you are in for your demonstration, the
sooner it will come. If you feel you can wait a year, it
will probably come next week. If you can feel that you
know it will come and you don’t care when, it will prob­
ably come tomorrow.
Hurry and pressure are fetters that we place upon our
own souls.
THE SPRINGTIME OF THE SOUL
E
aster is the great festival for the celebration of
springtime. Ever since men have been on the earth
they have marked the coming of spring in some special
way. It was natural that they should do this because they
have always felt intuitively that the real springtime is the
springtime of the soul, and the springtime of the soul is its
awakening to God.
Easter, if it has any true significance for us, must mean
just this—that the winter of separation and limitation is
over. It must mean that now we know who we really are
—the children of God—and what our real destiny is—
reunion with Him.,
135
THE TRUE EASTER
E
aster when properly understood, symbolizes the
supreme spiritual experience, which is the regen­
eration of mankind. We were not meant to be forever
in limitation, fear, and misunderstanding. The design of
Providence is that we should awaken to our true spiritual
nature, cast off the works of darkness, and go forth clad
in the shining armor of light. That is the true Easter.
Jesus passed through the dark night of Calvary to the
glorious resurrection of Easter day. The world today is
going through a Calvary from which it will emerge puri­
fied, strengthened, inspired, in a real Eastertide for the
race as a whole.
Individually, each one of us must aim at making the
same demonstration for himself, by studying the science
that Jesus taught, and applying it unswervingly in h»s
own life.
136
THOU CANST NOT STEAL
S
ome people talk as though you could do anything
you want to, while others seem to think that you
are a puppet of destiny with no choice at all. They are
both wrong. The truth is that you can do anything, have
anything, be anything, for which you have the con­
sciousness— but not otherwise.
T o be healthy you must have a health consciousness.
To be prosperous you must have a prosperity conscious­
ness. T o be successful in any field of endeavor you must
have the consciousness that corresponds.
There is a slang expression which says that to accom­
plish anything difficult “ you must have what it takes.”
Well, what it “takes” is the consciousness to correspond
to it.
W e have free will to develop a given kind of con­
sciousness, and then we can be and do anything in ac­
cordance with that, but w have no free will to do any­
thing without the consciousness that belongs to that
accomplishment.
To try to get something without having the conscious­
ness to which it belongs, is really mental theft, and that,
of course, cannot succeed—thou shalt not steal; which
really means thou canst not steal.
Build up the consciousness for what you truly want
and nothing can prevent your having it.
i37
N E V E R SA Y DIE
ever “write off” a treatment. Never admit to your-
self that a treatment has failed. When the demon-
stration does not come, it means either that you have not
done enough work or that for some reason the time is not
ripe for that condition to change.
If you feel that you have treated enough, or at least
done all that you can, affirm divine harmony and forget
it—but do not write it off. I have picked up demonstra­
tions a year after giving the last treatment concerning
them, but I had not written them off.
Of course, there is no one policy that will fit every
problem. If your common sense does not suggest how
a particular problem should be handled, treat for guid­
ance and it will surely come. Concerning matters that are
not urgent, it is an excellent practice to give one treat­
ment and leave it—to send up a kite and cut the string.
Your treatment 'will be just as effective as you think
it will be. Wffat you bind in your real belief will be
bound, and what you loose with the same conviction will
be loosed.
YES, I BELIEVE IT
W
hat do you really believe? This is a vital quest« in,
because it is your real belief that determines your
destiny. It is as a man thinketh in his heart that matters,
says the Bible, and this means the heart-felt conviction
as distinct from mere formal assent.
If you want to know what you really believe, you can
easily find out. Simply watch what you do. W e always
do what we believe, although we frequently talk differ­
ently. Therefore watch what you do and this will give
you a clue to your real beliefs.
If your conditions are not to your liking; if you feel
that you are not making the most of your life, change
your beliefs. Your present beliefs must be wrong if they
are not producing harmony and satisfaction; so change
them, and results will be changed too.
Start believing in health; and keep it up. Start believing
in prosperity; and keep it up. Start believing in the Christ
in those about you; and keep it up. Start believing that
your own Divine Selfhood is rapidly unfolding; and keep
it up.
Believe these things in your very heart, and act as
though you believed them, and the results will surprise
you.
139
LOVE ACTS THE PART
P
eople are to be judged by their actions. It is futile
to say that you feel one thing if you act something
W e sometimes hear it said, “his conduct is bad but
se.
at heart he means well” ; but this is nonsense because our
considered conduct always expresses the sentiments of
the heart. In the old-fashioned phrase, “handsome is as
handsome does.n
The bad-tempered person cannot possibly have “a
heart of gold” as is sometimes charitably said. A bad-
tempered person has a mean, selfish heart and should get
busy and change it without delay.
Love acts the part. The man who is unkind to his wife
does not love her, in spite of anything he may say. The
father who neglects his children does not love them, in
spite of any hypocrisy he may indulge in. The man who
talks or acts unpatriotically does not love his country
even though he waves the flag.
He who loves does not seek his own advantage. He
could not seek to hurt or tarnish the one he loved. He
could never forget or overlook his duties or obligations.
He could not cause suffering or injury to the one he
professed to love.
Love acts the pm , and anything else is hypocrisy.
14 0
A WAY OF LIFE
T
rue Christianity is a life to be lived, not just a set
of intellectual theories to be accepted. It is a W ay of
Life, and that means that your religion must function
all day long.
Particular demonstrations are important because they
prove the Law, but all particular demonstrations are sec­
ondary to the practical conduct of life. A good healer can
lift you over a certain stile by removing from your con­
sciousness the effects of past wrong thinking—but unless
you cease to think wrongly upon that subject the trouble
will return.
I once had a long talk with the late Mr. Sandow, the
famous “strong man,” in his palatial gymnasium in Lon­
don. He said, “People come to me with a blank check in
their hands and say, ‘I will pay you any fee you like if
you will produce for me a strong, healthy, young body,’
I say, ‘Excellent’—but then it turns out that I am to go
into the gymnasium and swing dumbbells and do exer­
cises on the floor, while they go away and eat and drink
and smoke too much and keep late hours. Regretfully 1
tell them, ‘It cannot be done.’ ”
Of course, Sandow was right, and it is with the train­
ing of the soul as with the training of the body; in the
long run we have to do our own work; and we have to
live the right mental life—not sometimes, but all the time.
i n
SPOTLIGHTS
a l w a y s pray gently. Work as gently as you would
work if you were painting a picture on a cobweb.
To get the right mental attitude, and maintain it, even
for a few days, will work a revolution in your life.
Your life is conditioned by your own thoughts; not
by the thoughts of anyone else.
You cannot change your type; but you can make your­
self a brilliant success in that type.
Without some degree of spiritual understanding, there
is no real security.
Stoicism is imposed from without by will power:
serenity grows from the inside outward.
The root of all our difficulties is a lack of the sense
of the Presence of God.
142
FLETCHERIZE LIFE!
H
orace F letcher taught people to eat slowly. He
said that most of us never enjoy our food because
we bolt one course to get to the next, and that the meal
is over before we begin to taste it.
I have often thought that most of us make this mistake
about life in general. Our attention is apt to be so fixed
upon tomorrow or next week that we forget to relish this
day. People are always going to be happy a little later on
when they have done something else first. They are
really going to enjoy life when they get a job, or when
they retire from business; or when they are married, or
when they get a divorce; or when they move into the
country, or when they can settle in town; or when they
have passed an examination; or when the children are off
their hands; or anything else in the whole world.
All this is wrong. By all means make your plans and
take the right means to carry them out; but meanwhile
enjoy each hour of the day as it passes. Ponder the won­
derful old saying that tomorro'w never comes. Enjoy the
living of today while today is here. There are all sorts
of interesring things happening in everyone’s life every
day. They may be small things but they are nevertheless
worth while.
When visiting several rather primitive Central Ameri­
can countries, I was greatly struck by the fact that these
simple people, whose ways of life are very elementary,
and who are almost without material possessions, never­
theless seem to get much more out of life than do many
•44
of our own relatively sophisticated people. Their secret
is that they live much more in the present moment than
we do. They enjoy life while it is with them. They ob­
viously relish performing the simplest tasks that we rush
through almost mechanically. Most of our people seem
to be, mentally, always en route to somewhere else or
something else.
Of course we have many things of great value that
they still lack, but it seems that in our very rapid progress
we have forgotten certain important values that these
primitive people still retain.
Live in the present moment and find your interest and
your happiness in the things of today.
144 Find arid Use Your bmer Power
B U T . . .
T
he devil is always up-to-date. He is always disguis­
ing himself in some new form. O f course, what we
call the devil is really just a dramatic name for one’s own
lower self; that old self (Paul calls it the old Adam) that
hates to change; the old self that is lazy and selfish and
fearful.
When the devil has been unmasked a number of times,
his final refuge seems to be the harmless looking word
but.
Students of the Jesus Christ teaching who would not
be deceived by any of the familiar devices, constantly
surrender their principles, and therefore their demonstra­
tion, to the little word but.
They say, “ Of course I know that God is the only
power—but. . . .”
Or
“ Of course I know that God is omnipresent, and so
He must really be where I see this problem—but. . .
Or
“ Of course I know that God is love, so there can be
nothing to be afraid of—but. . . .”
Or
“ Of course I know that there is no hurry because I
am in eternity—but. . . .”
Or
“ Of course I know that John or Mary must be the
living expression of God, as I am—but. . . .”
And this little word but destroys the whole treatment,
i45
and prevents the action of God from taking place at that
particular point. By that one word they have denied God.
If Truth is true, there are no biits-, and, of course, we
know that the Bible is right and that divine harmony is a
fact.
Know the Truth (without qualification) and the
Truth will set you free.
146 Find and Use Your Inner Power
L E T ’S N O T BE CO CKSU RE
H
ave you an open mind? Is the window of your soul
open for fresh air and the sunshine of Truth to
come in, or is it closed and shuttered by mental laziness
or the emotional congestion that we call prejudice?
None of us knows how many fine things we have
missed through being self-satisfied and cocksure. I do not
think that anyone can be considered really intelligent
who does not have a sense of balance and proportion,
some sense of the value of evidence, and a readiness to
examine new ideas with an open mind.
The history of scientific discovery shows that almost
every new step was opposed by the very people who
should have welcomed it.
Harvey was denounced for claiming that the blood
circulates through the body instead of standing still, as
was believed at the time. Galileo was persecuted for say­
ing that the earth went round the sun, and “learned”
men refused even to look through his telescope. Pasteur
was branded a quack by his professional colleagues for
advancing the germ theory of disease—the theory for
which most scientists would be willing to go to the stake
today. Jenner was threatened with the police for pioneer­
ing vaccination; and by the very medical bodies who
swear by it now. The finality of the atom, which was a
scientific dogma in the childhood of most of us, has been
completely discarded by the same scientific pundits
today.
Many of the Truths put forward by the New Thought
147
movement years and years ago are gradually being ac­
cepted by academic science, which at first laughed them
to scorn.
Right now you can sit in your home in New York
and listen to the voice of a man talking in Paris, or a
woman singing in London; and it was only a very short
time ago that such a feat would have seemed quite im­
possible—a few generations ago the people who did it
would have stood in serious danger of being hanged or
even burned alive for witchcraft.
Probably the only incorrigible fool is the man who says
that anything is impossible, that everything has been
done, or that there is any limit to the conquests that
Divine Intelligence working in mankind can achieve.
The truth is that nothing that is good is impossible.
*48 Find and Use Your Inner Power
DO N’T BE A DIN O SAUR
u
I
n a certain museum in New York they have a couple
of dinosaur’s eggs on view. This exhibit is very pop-
ar with the public because it appeals to the imagination.
Visitors say, “ Isn’t it interesting. She laid those eggs mil­
lions of years ago, and here they are today untouched!”
Interesting to us they undoubtedly are, but thought­
less people are apt to overlook the fact that for the dino­
saur in question they represent just complete failure.
After all the trouble of laying those eggs nothing ever
came of them—wasted effort.
It is surprising how many otherwise intelligent men
and women waste the best days of their lives laying dino­
saur’s eggs that they never hatch out. Either through
lack of energy, or lack of intelligent planning, or failure
to make God a partner, or more often sheer muddle-
headedness, they lay an excellent egg and then stroll
away and forget it.
Don't be a dinosaur. Do not start a plan unless you
really think it is worth while, and if you are convinced
that it is worth while, do not rest until you have brought
it to fruition. Jesus had something to say about those who
put their hand to the plow and then look back.*
Select something worth doing; take God for your part­
ner in the enterprise; and keep at it until success is as­
sured. Don't be a dinosaur.
• Luke 9:62.
149
SPIRITUAL SUN-BATHING
I
n m an y cases the best form of prayer is just to think
about God and His Presence with you. This quiet
contemplation of God is simply to enjoy the Presence
without attempting, so to speak, to do anything with it.
Particularly, if you are emotionally disturbed about
something, or when you are worried about a number of
different problems, this gentle but persistent preoccupa­
tion with the great Creative Mind will restore your inner
peace and open the way to victory.
W e need to learn to relax spiritually as well as physi­
cally. W e easily forget that it is the power of God that
solves our problem and not our own efforts in the mak­
ing of our prayers. Sun-bathing offers an excellent anal­
ogy here. In sun-bathing you expose the skin to the
solar rays, and then you relax and leave it to the sun to
do the rest. You would never think of trying to help the
sun. You would never think of trying to rub the sun­
beams into your skin, nor would you strain upward in an
endeavor to get nearer to the sun, for instance. You relax
quietly and have perfect faith that the sun will do its
work.
In meditating on the Presence of God the same quiet
relaxed confident attitude will bring the same inevitable
result.
FO OLS’ GO LD
I
N mining country one comes across a valueless sub­
stance which is so like gold ore that inexperienced
people cannot always tell the difference. This is called
Fools’ Gold, and many a young prospector has wasted
much time and hard work before discovering that he has
been deceived by the spurious article.
Old miners used to say to the tenderfoot: “When you
think you have found gold you probably have not; but
when you do find it, you will know it for certain.”
So it is with prospectors on the mountain range that
we call life. Here there are many kinds of fools’ gold to
be found, but when you meet the genuine article you
will have no doubt in your mind. The true gold will give
you a sense of peace and poise that nothing belonging to
this world can furnish. It will give you a sense of free­
dom and power because you will no longer be in bondage
to passing material things. It will set you free from much
of the tyranny of the time and space beliefs.
Fools’ gold usually takes the form of material riches,
social prominence, power over others, physical enjoy­
ment, and so forth. The true gold is that sense of the
Presence of God with us, to obtain which is the object
of this life.
NOW YOU MUST DO IT
T
he only part of our religion that is real is the part
we express in our daily lives. Ideals which we do not
act out in practice are mere abstract theories and have no
real meaning. Actually, such pretended ideals are a seri­
ous detriment, because they drug the soul into a false
sense of security.
If you want to receive any benefit from your religion
you must practice it; and the place to practice it is right
here where you are; and the time to do it is now.
Divine Love is the only real power. If you can realize
this fact even dimly it will begin to heal and harmonize
every condition in your life within a few hours. The
way to realize this fact is to express it in every word you
speak, in every business transaction, in every social ac­
tivity, and, in fact, in every phase of your life.
An early N ew Thought writer said: “Knead love into
the bread you bake; wrap strength and courage in the
parcel you tie for the woman with the weary face; hand
trust and candor with the coin you pay to the man with
the suspicious eyes.” This is beautifully said, and it sums
up the Practice of the Presence of God.
152
TO HIM T H A T H A T H
For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have
abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that
which he hath.
Matthew 25:29
T
his great text has been a stumbling-block to many. It
looks like injustice. It sounds like cruelty. Yet
Jesus said it, and we know that he was always right; and
that he taught that we reap as we sow.
The explanation is perfectly simple and logical when
you have the metaphysical key to life. Your experience
is the outpicturing or expression (pressing out) of your
state of mind or consciousness, at any time. When your
consciousness is high or relatively good, everything goes
well. When your consciousness is relatively low or
limited, everything goes wrong.
Trouble comes because the consciousness has fallen a
little. The usual thing then is to meet the trouble with
fear, anger, disappointment, self-pity, or brutal will
power. This naturally lowers the consciousness a good
deal more, and things get still worse—and so on. From
him that hath not (much) harmony, shall be taken away
even that which he hath.
Harmony and joy come into your life because your
mental state is comparatively high. This happiness natu­
rally raises your consciousness and your faith in God still
higher, and so things improve further. Unto everyone
that hath shall be given and he shall have abundance.
All this is a simple statement of natural law; and to
understand and apply this law will bring you out of any
i53
154 Find and Use Your Irmer Power
difficulty into harmony and true success. What seemed
at first to be unjust and cruel turns out to be a trumpet
call of courage and hope.
The proverb, “It never rains but it pours,” is another
way of stating the same law.
Let us thank God that this wonderful law exists.
ROSSINI SLEP T IT A W A Y
A
delightful story is told about Rossini, the famous
composer. It seems that the first night that his
opera, The Barber of Seville, was produced, it was very
badly received. Hisses and cries of derision followed the
fall of the curtain. No such scene had occurred in the
memory of anyone present. The prima donna was in
hysterics. The leading man darkly talked of suicide.
Then they looked for the composer, but he was nowhere
to be found.
“ The worst has happened,” cried the distraught man­
ager, “the maestro has destroyed himself.” They all
rushed off in a body to Rossini’s lodgings and discovered
him—sound asleep in bed. They woke him up. They
cried, “Maestro, are you all right?” Rossini replied, “ I
was having a nice sleep before you woke me.” They said,
“But the opera! The fiasco!”
Rossini replied, “Evidently ‘The Barber’ is not good
enough; so I must compose something better, that is all;
but we will discuss that in the morning. Now please let
me sleep.” And he relapsed into slumber.
As everyone knows, “The Barber” turned out to be an
immense success, and has played steadily for over a hun­
dred years, being received with enthusiasm in New York
only last season.
W e see from this that Rossini was a great philosopher
as well as a great composer. Without knowing it, he was
practicing New Thought. This story is a perfect exam­
ple of how we should meet seeming failure and difficulty
in order to turn it into success.
155
YO U R MIND IS Y O U R LA BO R A T O R Y
Y
ou have probably visited a chemical or electrical
laboratory at some time or other, even if you have
not done any scientific work yourself. You saw the
scientist busy with retorts, test tubes, thermometers, volt­
meters, or ammeters. He weighed and measured care­
fully, checked his readings, increased or decreased pres­
sures, and so forth, never acting at random or trusting to
luck. The result of this policy has, of course, been the
unparalleled triumphs of modern science in its own field
■—the efficient automobile, the priceless electric light,
the incredible radio, the age-old dream of man in flight,
and, perhaps most wonderful of all, the familiar tele­
phone. The scientific method has justified itself. In
Christian metaphysics we learn that man’s mentality is
his scientific laboratory—just that. In your daily think­
ing and reading and talking, you are handling the retorts
and test tubes and ammeters of the mental world. To
handle them correctly, like a scientist, is to produce
practical results comparable to his. This means, to have
health, harmony, and true success in your life.
T o be negative, inconsistent, and slovenly in your
mental life is to insure trouble and failure.
The negative things in your mind—the fears, doubts,
resentments—are to be starved out of existence by re­
fusing to feed them with the attention upon which they
live. The positive Christ things are to be nourished by
thoughts of Divine Love, harmony, peace, and the Prac­
tice of the Presence of God. This work is to be done
156
Your Mind Is Your Laboratory 157
systematically and consistently in the spirit of the scien­
tific chemist, for results always reflect the methods be­
hind them.
T 0 him that hath shall be given; so, see that what you
have is a consciousness of harmony and peace. From
him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he
hath; so, see to it that you have very little negative
thinking in your life; and then even what you have will
be taken away and your corresponding limitations will
follow it.
We reap as we sow.
SENSITIVE BUT HAPPY
T
o be sensitive is good, because sensitive people are
aware of a thousand interesting or beautiful things
where the obtuse person gets nothing. If our thick
skinned friends avoid a lot of suffering, they also miss
the finest things in life.
T o do any creative work you have to be sensitive; be­
cause the creative worker is a “receiving set” for Divine
Mind. The sensitiveness of the artist is proverbial. A
world famous tenor, who was literally fretting himself
to death over unimportant matters, broke down in my
office, and said that God was cruel to make him so sensi­
tive. I replied, “If you had the hide of a rhinoceros you
might be a happier man, but you would not be at the
Metropolitan.”
Many people, however, are too sensitive. They re­
spond to all kinds of unpleasant vibrations that do not
concern them. W e can train ourselves to reduce this
sort of thing to a minimum; but we should be careful to
see that we shut out negative things only, and still leave
ourselves open to the True, the Beautiful, and the Good.
Here is an affirmation which, intelligently used, will
save you much unnecessary bombardment by negative
thoughts: 7am positive to everything but the action of
God.
In an electric circuit any given point is said to be posi­
tive to any point below it, and negative to any point
above it. Current passes always from the positive to the
negative, and never the other way. Now, if you are posi-
tive in this sense to everything but the action of God, no
negative things can come back at you. On the other
hand, you are receptive (or “negative” in the purely
electrical sense of this ambiguous word) to all good—
the direct inspiration of God, the prayers of other peo­
ple, and all the beautiful and interesting vibrations in the
universe.
The first two or three metaphysical meetings I ever
conducted left me with a feeling of fatigue and depres­
sion. On thinking it over I realized that I had been leav­
ing myself open to all the mental conflicts in the audi­
ence, and by using the above affirmation I overcame this
problem in a few days.
The sword of the spirit is the Word of God.
Sensitive b u t H a p p y 15 9
YO U R CRIM IN A L E A R
M
any years ago a foolish professor wrote a book in
which he said that he could always tell if a per­
son were a potential criminal by the shape of his ear!
This naturally created something of a furore, and a
London newspaper sent a reporter to interview old Gen­
eral Booth, of the Salvation Army, on the subject.
He said, “ General, you probabl\Thave an unmatched
experience of human nature in the raw. Do you believe
there is such a thing as a criminal ear?”
William Booth laughed loudly through his Mosaic
beard, and replied, “W hy, of course there is a ‘criminal
ear’—and we’ve all got one. If it were not for the grace
of God, every one of us would be doing time or deserv­
ing to.”
William Booth understood human nature. You never
can afford to condemn another, because in his shoes you
would probably have done just as badly or worse. You
never know to what temptation another person has been
subjected. You cannot tell how much ignorance or sheer
stupidity has had to do with his fault. You should thank
God that you know better (if you really do) and help
him with the right thought, instead of pushing him still
farther down mentally. Have you not noticed that some­
times after condemning someone else rather pharasaically,
you have shortly afterward caught yourself committing
the very same fault?
Wisely did the Master say: Judge not.
STEPPIN G O U T O N W A N A M A K ER
E
xpress the thing that you want to be—is a good
rule in metaphysics. Act the part you really want
to play. If you want to be a hero, act heroically in the
plain things of everyday life, even if it involves a good
deal of sacrifice—as it will. If you want to be a saint,
lead a saintly life here and now; there is no other way.
If you want to know God, keep company with Him.
The only way to get to know a human being is to spend
time in his company, and the same is true of God.
If you want prosperity, think only prosperity
thoughts, speak only prosperity words, and as far as your
means allow, act out the part too. A penny-pinching
policy in money matters gradually builds a penny-poor
consciousness.
This is unchangeable metaphysical law; but remem­
ber that the law must be obeyed if the law is to act. You
must really pay the price, for you cannot fool the Law.
T o be a hero you must be heroic. For spiritual master­
ship you must walk with God.
Some people, in the name of metaphysics, try to shunt
their responsibilities onto someone else’s shoulders; but
while they may fool themselves in this way, they can«
not fool the Law.
A woman came to me in distress about money. It ap­
peared that she had a charge account at Wanamaker’s,
and had ordered a dress which had been duly delivered
and worn by her, although she had no money left. It
was the third of the month and the bill had arrived the
161
day before. I said, “W hy did you order a dress, not hav­
ing the money to pay for it?” She replied, “I believe in
stepping out on God.” I said, “That was not stepping
out on God; that was stepping out on Wanamaker. It
was unjust and dishonest.” She wept. I told her that tears
would not help either her or her creditor. She was sorry
for herself; I was sorry for the department store, and
told her so. Finally, her sister, who could not really af­
ford it, gave her the money. But she had learned her les­
son, and is now demonstrating finance very comfortably.
If you are going to work with God you must work
in the Spirit of God, and you must not count the cost.
Casting the burden on other people is only selfishness
and evasion. Y ou step out on God when you build your­
self a true God consciousness, and that will never penalize
anyone else.
1 62 Find and U se Y ou r Inner P ow er
IN THE BEGINNING, ME
h e first four words of the Bible are in the beginning,
God. This fact is very significant because it indi­
cates that God must be the beginning of anything worth
while. Here it begins the Bible, and the text goes on to
deal with the creation of the universe, showing that God,
of course, is the real beginning of all things.
If you take this thought in the beginning, God, and
make it the keynote of your whole life, you have
found the secret of success. If you make this principle
the keynote of any particular enterprise, that enterprise
must and will be successful.
The trouble with so many people is that the actual
keynote of their lives is in the beginning, me. They are
not always aware of this. As a rule they do not even
suspect it; but the fact remains.
The real cause for the inharmony in the world is that
so many individuals, groups, and nations, think in terms
of in the beginning, me.
Working from yourself as the center can only bring
discouragement, depression, and failure. Working from
God as the center, not nominally but actually, must
bring success, for God is Creative Life.
The Bible says, “I am Alpha and Omega, the begin­
ning and the end”—the First and the Last. This means
that where God is the beginning you will find He is
also the end, that your demonstration will be complete,
perfect, and final.
CAN’T-BE-DONE’S
H
e r e is a wonderful saying, “ He didn’t know that
it couldn’t be done, so he did it.” Meditate upon
this, and you will find it very inspiring.
It is amazing to think how many interesting and
worth while things most of us could do, if we had not
put mental handcuffs on ourselves. What happens to
many people is this: When they are young they are full
of ambition and confidence, and they attempt to do a
number of interesting things. Being young, they lack
experience, or the necessary means to accomplish their
desires, and, after a number of failures, they become
permanently discouraged, and decide that after all they
cannot do anything worth while. Also they unwisely dis­
cuss their plans with other people, who thoughtlessly
discourage or even snub them. Thus it is that the lives
of most grown up people are full of can't-be-done's.
They say “ I can’t do this” and “ I can’t do that,” and “ I
am never able to do such a thing,” and “ of course some­
thing else is impossible for me.” Often they have a
spurious reason—“ my health,” “ my constitution,” “my
early training” (or lack of it). “ M y age” is a favorite
excuse for laziness. “ My family” is a pretty good excuse
too; and, of course, there are always the climate, the
unfavorable locality, and the depression.
A great industrialist has a rule in his works that when
his research department fails to solve a problem, no
records of these experiments are kept. He says that these
failures would be accepted as final, and would prevent
164
C an't-B e-D one's
new men from ultimately solving those problems. He is
right, of course, in thus repudiating can't-be-done's.
Have a mental stock-taking, and ruthlessly throw out
all the can’t-be-done’s you find in yourself. Break those
handcuffs with the power of Truth. Just as you are today,
you can do some wonderful things for yourself and
those you love if you will get rid of the can't-be-done's.
1 6 5
C H A N G E YO U R M IND—A N D K E E P IT
CH A N G ED
I
f some condition in your life is not to your liking,
change your mind about it—and keep it changed.
If someone is displeasing to you, change your mind about
him— and keep it changed. If there is some sad memory
that haunts you, change your mind about it— and keep
it changed.
Most students of metaphysics are ready to change
their minds about a problem, especially when they have
just been to a lecture or talked with a teacher; but they
do not keep them changed.
This is the crux of the matter. If you will change
your mind concerning anything and absolutely keep it
changed, that thing must and will change too. It is the
keeping up of the change in thought that is difficult. It
calls for vigilance and determination. But surely it is
worth while, seeing that it is the key to Dominion.
Make an experiment now. Change your mind con­
cerning some particular thing in your life and keep it
changed; and I guarantee that you will be amazed and
delighted at the result.
166
TOO OLD A T SO M ETH IN G
O
n e of the imaginary bogeys that spoil people’s lives
is the idea of being too old. This bogey is an
imaginary one, but nevertheless it can ruin everything,
as long as you believe in it.
Before the last war someone created the stupid slogan,
“Too old at forty,” and many people picked it up and
used it to cripple their lives. People of twenty have told
me they were too old to do something that, in reality,
they would not be ready for under another ten years.
And once a child of fifteen said to me he supposed he
was too old to do something or other that he wanted
to do.
For practical purposes you are as old or as young
as your consciousness; as old or as young as your real
belief. This is not just theory, but admits of practical
proof, and many people have proved it.
Of course, it is in seeking employment that the too-
old-to-do-something bogey is most troublesome. People
say, “ What is the use of looking for work when the first
question they ask is about my age?” Now the truth is that
if you feel that way about your age it will indeed be
a stumbling block but it is you yourself who make it so.
You believe in your heart that your age is a handicap.
This thought and the great fear that goes with it are up­
permost in your mind. The man who would engage you
gets this from you, and immediately asks about your age.
He is responding to your own thought.
But, if you will work on yourself until you have
167
really risen above this fear—until you really do feel that
your age does not matter— the prospective employer
either will not ask about your age at all or he will not
care about it. Where a form has to be filled out, he will
either not notice your age or not care.
A number of people, in what is sometimes called later
life, have proved this law to their great advantage.
Too-old-to-do-something is a purely personal bogey
and has no existence outside of your own mind.
You are as old as eternity and as young as God, and
others will put the valuation on your age that you really
put on it yourself.
168 Find and Use Your Inner Power
IS THAT YOUR HAT?
W
hy has not your prayer been answered? Perhaps
it has. Strangely enough, it often happens that
we receive an answer to our prayer and do not recognize
it. Some of us have had demonstrations in our possession
for weeks or months and have not known it. This mis­
take is caused by outlining. W e have unconsciously de­
cided that the demonstration must take a particular form,
and because that form does not appear, we think we
have failed. Actually we probably have an even better
demonstration than we expected, but for the moment
we are blind to it.
If a boy prayed for a man’s hat (because he thought it
would look well on him or make him grown up) he
would not get it; since Divine Wisdom knows that he
could not wear it. He would get a good hat of the sort
that would be useful to him. We often pray for things
for which we are not really prepared; but if we pray sci­
entifically this will not matter, since Creative Intelligence
will send us the thing that we really need.
The Practice of the Presence of God is the perfect
prayer because it understands everything and overlooks
nothing.
Seek God for His own sake, for the joy of being with
Him, and demonstrations will take care of themselves.
I BLESS HIM—H E ’S A D EV IL
I
recently received a letter from a man with a business
problem. He was having trouble with two men who,
he said, were trying to swindle him out of a large sum
of money by misrepresenting the terms of an agreement.
He said:
“ I have been a student of metaphysics for many years,
and for a week past I have spent some time every morn­
ing realizing the Christ in each of these men, and know­
ing that they are the perfect children of God and must
express truth and wisdom; for that is the Law of Being.
They are a most unscrupulous pair, and are notorious
in our city for their underhanded dealings, and one of
them came near going to jail some time ago. They are
financial sharks of the lowest type. I continue to realize
the Divine Presence in them, and I am writing to ask you
to speak the Word for me.”
This appalling letter throws a searchlight on the mis­
take that keeps so many people from demonstrating.
This man spent time each morning trying to realize the
Christ in his “enemies,” and then went on, even in his
letter, to think evil of them; and seemed to imagine that
finishing with a well-sounding phrase would undo all this
harm.
It is obvious that what he really felt about them was
evil, and that the good he voiced was merely a pious
formality. In order to demonstrate, he would have to
feel the Truth so strongly that the error picture naturally
faded out of his consciousness; and so I told him in no
uncertain words.
SH RA PN EL
T
he Jesus Christ teaching is a passport to peace of
mind and steady spiritual progress. Jesus said that
if we followed his teachings nothing would by any means
hurt us—and that is true. It usually happens, however,
that when we are on the spiritual path difficulties present
themselves from time to time; but as long as they are
met with Truth, in the right way, they soon fade out
into nothingness, leaving us with a definite spiritual up­
lift.
Sometimes these difficulties are caused by mistakes we
are making at the present time, and such mistakes must
be recognized and corrected; but more often they are
old negative things working their way out of the sub­
conscious, much as shrapnel works its way out of a
living body.
I know a man who was badly wounded in the last war.
He is able to earn his living now, but every few weeks
a curious thing happens. He will feel a slight itching
somewhere on his skin. The following day a tiny lump
makes its appearance. Then, a day later, the skin is
punctured by a little steel point, and within a few hours
another piece of shrapnel has emerged! Of a somewhat
morbid temperament, he keeps these gruesome souvenirs
in a glass tumbler on the mantlepiece.
The subconscious mind has many fears, doubts, and
frustrations buried in its depths, and the sooner they
come to the surface, the sooner shall we attain our goal.
And so their emergence shrapnel-like into the light of
day is all to the good. Meet the problems, worries, and
annoyances of daily life in the knowledge that they
furnish an opportunity to clear up the subconscious
mind very rapidly, and you will be surprised to find how
little power they have to impede you. They are shrapnel
coming out.
172 Find and Use Your Inner Power
YOUR OWN VALUATION
T
he world will take you at your own valuation. Your
body will take you at your own valuation. Your
business will take you at your own valuation; for your
own value is the value that you really put upon yourself.
“ Oh, but,” you may say, “that cannot be true, be­
cause I know several people who are always boasting
and pretending and yet no one ever takes them seriously.”
Please note that I said the value you really put upon
yourself. That important word makes all the difference
in the world. People who boast, bluff, and pretend, have
really a poor opinion of themselves— or why would
they pretend? And it is this poor opinion or sense of in­
feriority that is demonstrated in the failure that such
people always make of their lives.
The man who really believes that his wares are excel­
lent does not dream of lying about them. The man who is
satisfied with what he is, has no incentive to pretend to
be something he is not. The man who is conscious of
substantial achievement has no desire to boast.
Nature always takes you at your own valuation. Believe
you are the child of God—really believe it. Believe that
you express Divine Life, Divine Truth, and Divine Love.
Believe that Divine Wisdom guides you. Believe that
God is your supply. Believe that God is helping and bless­
ing humanity through you yourself. Believe that you are
a special enterprise on the part of God and that He is
opening your way—and what you really believe, that
you will demonstrate.
173
THE GLORY OF HIS PRESENCE
T
h e glory of God sweeps into the human soul on
the wings of the morning. It is like a summer sun­
rise, stilling the soul, enlightening the intellect, filling the
heart with an ineffable joy.
This glory comes not by accident or by favor. If you
really wish for that communion with God which has
been the goal of religious men and women in all ages,
you must come out for it definitely, and you must dis­
card everything that can possibly retard you upon the
journey.
You must set aside a definite time every day for prayer
and meditation, and for checking up on your own daily
conduct, both in external and internal things. You must
conduct the affairs of your soul in a businesslike way.
Too many religious people fail to realize that the business
of spiritual growth calls for order, method, and intel­
ligent organization; just as much as does any commercial
business or any engineering enterprise or any other im­
portant activity, if it is to be a success; and that, above
all, it requires whole-hearted and unwavering devotion
and self consecration. If . . . thou shalt seek the Lord
thy God, thou shalt find him, if thou seek him with
all thy heart and with all thy soul*
• Deuteronomy 4:29.
>74
W HERE’S TH E FIRE?
W
hat are you rushing about for, might one ask in
a friendly way? W hy did you dash out of the
house this morning as if a tiger were after you? W hy
have you been racing about all day like a neurotic grass­
hopper? W hy do you charge along subway platforms
like cavalry? What is the idea of writhing with im­
patience when you do not hear the telephone girl’s voice
inside of three seconds? W hy do you sometimes finish
people’s sentences for them and “ take the words out of
their mouths” ? W hy do you risk your neck dashing into
the street thirty seconds before the green light makes it
safe?
What is it all about? You appear to be going some­
where—but where? Surely all this frenzied rushing
should have a logical objective—but has it?
Actually, I think you will find that it has not. I think
if you analyze your movements for one whole day you
will discover that three-quarters of your activities have
really been wasted motion. You could have done a better
day’s work with much more profit to yourself and others
with about twenty-five per cent of the energy, quietly
and scientifically applied; besides going to bed with
healthy fatigue instead of nervous prostration.
Where are you going? Well, I do not know about
you, but I do know exactly where most people are
going—to the cemetery. W e know that unless we re­
generate we shall die some day. N ow people who are
regenerating do not rush, because part of the regenera-
»75
tion treatment is to cultivate poise, calm, and patience.
So all the rushing and dashing and trampling on other
people is just in order to get—to the cemetery. Hardly
seems worth it; does it?
Walk along any busy street, and study the rushing,
surging throng, and note that they are all rushing some­
where—to the graveyard. Of course, the route will be a
circuitous one, they will loop round thousands of miles
first—but that is the goal to which they are rushing.
At the entrance to a large cemetery near New York
a notice says, with unconscious irony, “ one way traffic
only.”
Now, is it good enough to wear yourself out, under­
mine your health, and worry all the joy out of your life
just to go off and be buried?
Take it easy. Enjoy life reasonably as you go along.
You are really in eternity now, and in eternity no wise
man hurries. God does not want us to die. It is we who
kill ourselves with hurry and worry. If we understood
God’s laws and applied them, we could live very long
lives on this earth in strong vigorous health, and then,
when there was no more to learn here, transcend con­
sciously. Some day the race will learn this. Meanwhile
take it easy and trust in God.
1 76 Find and Use Your Inner Power
PADEREWSKI!—THAT’S DIFFERENT!
[ amusing story was told me by the manager of a
New York hotel. The great Paderewski occupied
a suite there a number of years ago during one of his
seasons at Carnegie Hall.
It was the master’s custom to practice for a couple
of hours every morning on the magnificent instrument
which he had brought with him.
On the third morning of his stay an angry lady stormed
into the manager’s office and said, “ Someone is hammer­
ing on an old tin can piano every morning across the
corridor from me. This is the third day. It is driving me
mad, and unless you stop it I shall leave immediately.”
The astonished manager remonstrated, “But madam,
that is Paderewski himself!”
The lady nearly fainted with surprise and said,
“Paderewski! Oh, that’s different. O f course I had not
the slightest idea. I adore good music. I am an excellent
musician myself. Please say nothing at all about it.” The
hotel man was much amused to note that thereafter, for
the remainder of Paderewski’s stay, the good woman
kept the door of her apartment wide open and enter­
tained a party of friends there every morning while he
practiced.
Learn to appreciate the true worth of things. Do not
admire things just because other people do, or because
such an attitude is considered “correct.” Know what
you really like. Know what you really want. Be honest
with yourself. It may be that your taste in certain direc-
177
tions needs to be improved, but, if so, set out to improve
it honestly and without self-deception. If the opera bores
you, do not go to the Metropolitan just because it is
fashionable to do so. If, on the other hand, you think “ I
do not like opera because my musical taste is unde­
veloped, but nevertheless I will attend the best operas
until I gradually develop that taste,” that is a splendid
policy.
Honesty is the first step in self-development.
178 Find and Use Your Inner Power
INTELLIGENCE
I
ntelligence is the glory of God. Put it into every
corner of your life.
He worked hard and hoarded money all his life. He
got no happiness out of it for himself or for others. Then
he died— and as he could not take it with him, some­
one else had the congenial task of spending it. Unintel­
ligent.
She walked ten blocks in bad weather to save a nickel;
wore out a dime’s worth of shoe leather, got a cold and
was in bad humor for three days. Unintelligent.
He took the greatest care of his car and used only the
best gasoline, although he could always buy a new car;
but he neglected his body, ate too much food and all the
wrong things, and got no real exercise and no proper
rest, until he wrecked his health. Unintelligent.
She wanted to be popular and have lots of friends;
but she had a bad tongue and was known to be critical
and gossipy, so that gradually but surely she became
completely isolated. Unintelligent.
He was ambitious and wanted to be an executive some
day; but meanwhile he did as little work as he could,
was sulky when an extra job came along, and was often
late or missing from his place. Then he was surprised
and hurt because the promotions always went to some­
one else. Unintelligent.
The examination was going to mean a lot to him; but
he neglected steady preparation, wasted his time on un­
important activities, and was at a late party the night
179
before. Tired and unprepared, he naturally failed. Unin'
telligent.
He was always polite and helpful to strangers. In fact
his outside manners were perfect, but he was boorish
and self-centered at home with the ones whom he really
loved. Unintelligent.
He worked and worried over a thousand unimportant
passing things and neglected the development of his
soul. Unintelligent.
i8o Find and Use Your bmer Power
STOP LIM IT IN G GOD
T
h e principal reason why prayers are not answered,
why treatments do not demonstrate, is because in
our hearts we limit the power of God. The Bible con­
stantly tells us that the people got into trouble because
they Ihnited the Holy One.
When you say, “There is no way out of my diffi­
culty,” what can it possibly mean except that you can­
not see a way out? When you say, “ It is too late now,”
what can that possibly mean except that it is too late for
you} When you say, “ This problem is too great,” what
can it possibly mean, except that it is too great for the
faith that you have at the moment?
When you pray or treat you are turning to the power
of God and surely you will admit that God is omnipotent,
and therefore nothing can be too difficult, or too late, or
too soon for Him. You will surely admit that Infinite
Wisdom knows at least more than you do, to put the
thing rather mildly. Well, Infinite Wisdom takes action
when we pray and so our own limitations do not matter
—unless we think they do.
Children often find themselves completely overcome
by a difficulty that a grown-up person easily solves.
What to the child seemed an impossibility is quite easy
to his father, and so even our greatest difficulties are
utterly simple to God. Think of a child just learning
subtraction. He reaches the point where he understands
how to take six from eight. Then he gets the little prob­
lem of taking eight from twelve and his faith in arith­
181
metic collapses. T o him it is obvious that you cannot
take eight from two and that is the end of the matter.
Teacher, however, sees a little farther and shows him
how it can easily be done.
Infinite Wisdom knows a simple way out of every
difficulty, a simple answer to every problem, a beautiful
and joyous solution to any dilemma that can come to
anyone, and it is only our ingrained habit of limiting
God that keeps Him from giving us perfect harmony.
Do not limit the power of God for good in your fife.
1 82 Find and U se Your hmer P ow er
IT W AS LO N G SIN CE PRO VED
T hat the secret of life is to co-operate with Nature
instead of fighting her.
T hat bodily health is the greatest of all blessings.
T hat if you have no confidence in yourself, you are
licked before you start.
T hat those who rely upon bluff or deceit do not last,
because honesty really is the best policy.
T hat intelligent planning and lots of hard work are a
necessary part of any achievement.
T hat a mental attitude of forgiveness and toleration
makes for health, happiness, and all round success.
T hat you often overlook the choicest things in life
because they are so easy to obtain—the sunrise and the
sunset, the starry host on a clear night, the taste of fresh
clean air, the sight and smell of flowers and trees, and
the fresh rain on your face.
TREAT THE “BECAUSE”
W
hen you find yourself thinking that your prayer
cannot be answered for any reason whatever—
treat that reason. When something says to you that you
cannot demonstrate “because”—treat the because.
When you think, I cannot demonstrate because I
have not enough understanding—treat for understand­
ing. When you think, I cannot treat because I have a
headache—treat the headache. When you think, I can­
not demonstrate because I am full of doubts—treat the
doubts. When you think I cannot demonstrate because
it is now too late—treat against the time illusion. When
you think, I cannot demonstrate in this part of the coun­
try—treat against the space illusion. When you think,
I cannot demonstrate this thing because of my age—treat
your age belief. When you think, I cannot demonstrate
because someone else will hinder me—treat the belief
in a power other than God.
N o matter what name the because may give itself, it
is still your belief in limitation. Be loyal to God and
know that He and He alone has all power.
Treat the because.
MAKE IT SUBCONSCIOUS
B
e f o r e an idea can work in our lives it must be ac­
cepted by the subconscious mind. When the idea is
accepted by the subconscious it must work in our lives.
Knowledge that is only in the conscious (or fore-con­
scious) mind can have no practical effect. It is when it
is accepted in the deeper layers that it becomes dynamic.
Physicians know consciously what perfect anatomy
and hygiene would be; but they are not healthier than
any other class, because this knowledge is not in the
deeper layers of their minds. If it were, they would
demonstrate perfect health. W e students of metaphysics
know that God is Love and Intelligence and we be­
lieve it; but it is not until that idea is accepted in the
deeper levels of our subconscious that we shall have
perfect peace of mind and the all round harmony that
comes with it.
From the scientific point of view then, our problem is
to get the ideas we wish to demonstrate accepted by the
subconscious. Then the rest will follow.
*»5
SHEPHERD NOT BELL-HOP
W
hen you feel a desire to improve yourself or your
conditions, it means that God has inspired you
with that splendid idea; and He who inspired you with
the idea will give you the power to carry it out.
This means that when we are praying for health, har­
mony, and true prosperity, we are obeying God by that
very act—not beseeching Him to grant it; much less
ordering Him to do so.
Some people talk as though Divine Mind were there
to take our orders, but, of course, this is absurd. It is
we who obey the orders of Divine Mind. God’s orders to
us take the form of inspirations and aspirations for better
things.
The Bible says, “The Lord is my shepherd.” Some
foolish people seem to think it says, “The Lord is my
bell-hop.” They talk about ordering what yon want,
and probably they are guilty of nothing worse than
very confused thinking.
W e do not order God. He inspires us; but He does
not compel us to accept his inspirations if we do not
wish to. W e have free will to be negative or positive,
constructive or destructive, as we choose. But always
the path upward will be in obedience to God and to the
laws of His universe.
»86
IS IT A LIE?
T
houghtless people sometimes say that our affirma­
tions and meditations are foolish because we state
what is not so. “To claim that my body is well or being
healed when it is not, is only to tell a lie,” said one dis­
tinguished man some years ago.
This is to misunderstand the whole principle. W e af­
firm the harmony that we seek in order to provide the
subconscious with a blue print of the work to be done.
When you decide to build a house, you purchase a
vacant piece of ground and then your architect prepares
drawings of a complete house. Actually, of course, there
is no such house on the lot today, but you would not
think of saying that the architect was drawing a lie. He
is drawing what is to be, in order that it may be. So, we
build in thought the conditions that will later come into
manifestation on the physical plane.
T o wait like Mr. Micawber for things to “turn up”
is foolish, because you will probably die before they do
so. What is your intelligence for if not to be used in
building the kind of life that you want? V ery primitive
men in prehistoric times rejoiced when they found food
growing anywhere, and then they waited, perhaps for
years, until they happened to find another crop. Today
we use our intelligence, and plant in good time the actual
crops that we want, and the amount that we consider
necessary. W e do not sit about hoping that wheat or
barley may fortunately come up somewhere. If we did
that, civilization would collapse.
187
1 88 Find cmd Use Your Inner Power
The time has come when intelligent men and women
must understand the laws of Mind, and plant consciously
the crops that they desire; and just as carefully pull up
the weeds that they do not want.
T H E M EAN S IS N O T T H E EN D
he object of treatment is to produce a certain state
of mind. That state of mind constitutes a true under­
standing concerning the problem in question and free­
dom from fear in connection with it. When this state
of mind is attained, the demonstration must and does
Whatever produces the required state of mind is a
good treatment. Repeating certain affirmations, reading
certain verses in the Bible, using the “Presence Card” or
the “ Golden K ey,” or any other “ method” of produc­
ing that state of mind is a good treatment.
Note, however, that using the affirmations or reading
spiritual literature is not an end in itself. It is the uplifted
state of mind that is the end. Many sincere Christians
have come to mistake the means for the end, and think
that praying mechanically or going through certain
forms constitutes the spiritual life; but this is not so. The
spiritual life is the search for higher states of conscious­
ness and nothing else.
Whether you be praying to heal a problem (physical
or otherwise) or for the general development of your
soul, the higher level of understanding is the objective.
follow.
M. Y. O. B.
M'■ ind your ow n business. One of the first rules
on the spiritual path is that you must attend
strictly to your own business and not interfere with
that of others. Your neighbor’s life is sacred and you
have no right to try to manage it for him. Let him alone.
God has given him free will and self-determination, so
why should you interfere?
Many well meaning people are constantly “ butting in”
to their neighbors’ lives without invitation. They pre­
tend to themselves that their only desire is to help, but
this is self-deception. It is really a desire to interfere.
Interference always does more harm than good. Actu­
ally those who mind other people’s business always
neglect their own. The man who wants to put your
house in order has always made a failure of his own
life. M. Y. O. B.
O f course, this does not mean that you are not to
help people whenever you can; in fact, you should make
it a rule to try to do at least one kind act every day;
but you must do it without interfering or encroaching.
When in doubt, claim Divine Guidance.
It is always right to give your neighbor the right
thought. Under any circumstances it can only do good
to “ Golden K ey” him when you think of him.
Don’t fuss—God is running the universe.
190
DIVINE WISDOM WORKS IN YOU . . .
I
f you do not use a hundred units of energy to do five
units of work— or try to kill flies with a steam
hammer.
if you do not cross bridges before you come to them.
if you do not allow yourself to be disorganized by
trifling occurrences that you know perfectly well are
of no importance.
if you realize that it is more economical to spend
money wisely than to hoard it.
if you understand that what you have to live with is
your own concept of things.
if you keep your personal business to yourself.
if you really practice the motto, live and let live.
19 1
C IR C U LA TIO N
T
h e law of circulation is a Cosmic Law. That means
that it is true everywhere and on all planes.
The law is that constant rhythmical movement is nec­
essary to health and harmony. Now the opposite of cir­
culation is congestion, and it may be said that all sick­
ness, inharmony, or trouble of any kind is really due to
some form of congestion.
If you think this subject out for yourself you will be
fascinated to find how generally true it is, and in what
unexpected places it appears.
Much ill health is due to emotional congestion. This
leads to congestion of the nerve, blood, and lymphatic
fluids, producing disease.
The depression belief under which the country labored
for ten years was a case of congestion. There was plenty
of raw material, machinery, and skill, and a very wide­
spread demand for goods; but a case of congestion oc­
curred!
The dust bowl trouble and its allied misfortune, the
floods, is, of course, an example of congestion.
W ar itself is really due to frustrated circulation on
many planes of existence.
Some students of metaphysics shut their minds to the
reception of new truth, and this always produces mental
congestion and a failure to demonstrate.
You should treat yourself two or three times a week
for free circulation on all planes—by claiming that God
is bringing this about.
I02
A R E YO U A FET ISH W O RSHIPER?
T
h e lowest form of idolatry (if one form of idolatry
can be said to be lower than another) is fetish wor­
ship. The most degraded savages in Africa are those most
addicted to the worship of fetishes. Unfortunately there
are many “ civilized” savages in Europe and America suf­
fering from the same weakness. Fetish worship is by no
means extinct even among earnest church-goers, even
among sincere metaphysical students.
To give power to any material object is to make s,
fetish of it, and to worship that fetish; and to that extent
to be a savage. Fetish worship is a denial of the power of
Divine Spirit and, in plain English, it is the sin of idolatry
forbidden by the First Commandment.
Last year a man came to me in great distress. I knew
him as an earnest and successful student of metaphysics.
Five or six years ago he opened a small restaurant in N ew
York and has made a great success of it. He began busi­
ness during the worst days of the depression belief, when
shops were failing all around him. This café had changed
hands two or three times in the previous two years, ruin­
ing each successive proprietor. By regular daily spiritual
treatment this man had built the business into a success
and was making a larger income than he ever made in the
so-called days of prosperity. Then something happened.
He had saved the first dollar bill he took in when he
opened the place, framed it and hung it on the wall be­
hind the counter “ for luck!” It hung there four or five
years. Then one week-end last fall he had the whole
193
place cleaned out, painted, and refurnished. For forty-'
eight hours gangs of men came and went, and during
the proceedings the dollar bill disappeared.
The poor man was almost hysterical with fear. He said,
“ M y luck is gone. I would pay a thousand dollars to get
that bill back”—and he was a student of metaphysics!!
O f course I scolded him soundly, told him he had made
&fetish and was worshiping it, and that this was the time
to get free. He got free, and the business continues to
flourish.
A woman came to me in the same state of mind. She
had been very happily married for ten years, and now—
she had lost her wedding ring; left it on a public wash
basin. She said, “This may mean that our marriage will
go wrong.” I said, “Your marriage has been successful
because you have loved and trusted one another, not
because of a metal ring. Buy another ring at the nearest
shop and be sensible.”
Even the Bible itself can be made a fetish. I have
known people who said they would not like to be with­
out a Bible in the house, and yet they never opened it.
See if you are worshiping any fetishes, and if so, get
rid of them, and worship God.
19 4 F ind and U se Y ou r Inner P ow er
HAVE YOU EVER NOTICED . . .
T
h at God gave you two eyes and two ears but
only one tongue?
T hat an animal never eats when it is sick, and that
domestic animals keep themselves fit and well by exer­
cise, stretching, and relaxing?
T hat a bad workman quarrels with his tools, and that
the grumbler is never efficient at his job?
T hat when a place is kept scrupulously clean, every­
thing else is likely to be right too?
T hat the cemeteries are full of people who thought
they couldn’t afford to take a rest, or didn’t have the
time?
T hat Americans travel thousands of miles and spend
thousands of dollars to rave over foreign scenery, when
there is probably something just as beautiful within a
hundred miles of home?
T hat almost anything on earth that is worth having
can be obtained in New York City?
H ave you ever noticed?
195
HAVE YOU SEEN THE LEOPARD?
p-tT-^HE circus came to town for one evening and little
J]_ Johnny’s father took him to see it. His cousin in
New York had written him a glowing report of the
show, and especially of a big spotty leopard in a cage.
His mother, his aunt, his uncle, and his big sister all
gave him dimes to spend; and he got a whip, and a flag,
and a cowboy hat, and popcorn, and lemonade.
They sat close to the ring, and he saw everything that
happened in the big top; and then they went outside, and
father took him into all the side shows, and right down
the alley where the animals were.
When they left the circus he was so tired he could
hardly keep his eyes open. Father remarked, “ Well, you
certainly had a good time,” and the child replied, “Yes,
Daddy, but I didn’t see the leopard.” When they arrived
home, Mother said, “ Did you see all the great big
elephants?” and he replied, “Yes, Mama, but I didn’t
see the leopard.” Uncle inquired, “ Did you like that
wonderful trapeze performance high up in the air?” He
replied, “Yes, uncle, I did; but I didn’t see the leopard.”
Sister said, “Weren’t the little midgets cute?” And he
replied, “Yes, they were; but I didn’t see the leopard.”
Aunty said, “ Didn’t you love all those beautiful horses
galloping around, and those clever people standing on
their backs?” He replied, “Yes, aunty, I loved it; but I
didn’t see the leopard.”
Some people pass through the world like little Johnny
at the circus. They get many good things out of life,
196
197
but there is some particular thing that they really want,
and yet they manage to miss it. They put off getting it
or doing it, or they let unimportant obstacles stand in
the way. Then when the end of the road comes, in spite
of all that life has given them, they haven't seen the
leopard.
The business man who always wanted to make a
flower garden himself but never got around to it; the
woman who always wanted to see the Rocky Mountains,
or the Pyramid, or Fujiyama, and had money to go, but
did not like to spend it; the person who always wanted
to be able to speak French, but never had time to take
a lesson—these people all went to the circus but failed to
see the leopard.
Stop wasting time and money for things that you do
not really want and go out and get the things that you
do want. A real wish—something that you know is not
either wrong or manifestly foolish—comes from God;
and God will open the way if you let Ffim. There really
is not much use in seeing the whole circus if you do not
see the leopard.
Have You Seen the Leopard?
KEEP ON THE BEAM
T
oday most commercial flying is done on a radio
beam. A directional beam is produced to guide the
pilot to his destination, and as long as he keeps on this
beam he knows that he is safe, even if he cannot see
around him for fog, or get his bearings in any other way.
As soon as he gets off the beam in any direction he
is in danger, and he immediately tries to get back onto
the beam once more.
Those who believe in the All-ness of God, have a spir­
itual beam upon which to navigate on the voyage of life.
As long as you have peace of mind and some sense of
the Presence of God, you are on the beam, and you are
safe, even if outer things seem to be confused or even
very dark; but as soon as you get off the beam you are
in danger.
You are off the beam the moment you are angry or
resentful or jealous or frightened or depressed-, and when
such a condition arises you should immediately get back
on the beam by turning quietly to God in thought, claim­
ing His Presence, claiming that His Love and Intelli­
gence are with you, and that the promises in the Bible
are true today. If you do this you are back on the beam,
even if outer conditions and your own feelings do not
change immediately. You are back on the beam and you
will reach port in safety.
Keep on the beam and nothing shall by any means
hurt you.
198
GRANT ALWAYS FOUGHT
N
ever recognize evil as having any reality. Never
grant it the courtesy of the slightest or most for­
mal acquiescence. Even though you may not be able
to demonstrate over error for the time being, still you
must not recognize it as having any power or reality.
Every time you speak or think of evil as having any
power—you give it that much power. Every time you
allow it to scare you—you give it that much authority.
Always fight error in thought—not in the sense of
struggling with it, but fight it in the sense of knowing
that it is only false belief. Do not let it rest quietly in
thought; but harass it.
An old soldier who was with Grant during most of
the Civil War, once said:
“The difference between Grant and McClellan was
this—McClellan was a mighty fine soldier, knew all the
military textbooks by heart and what you ought to do—
but he wouldn’t fight. When Lincoln would ask him to
fight, he would say, ‘Not ready yet’ or ‘We must be
thoroughly prepared for a thing like that; next year
maybe.’ But Grant, he was always fighting. No matter
how few men Grant had with him, if the enemy was
anywhere near, Grant took a sock at him. Grant would
always fight.”
The only attitude for the metaphysical student is:
“ I believe in Divine Harmony and nothing else. 7 do
not believe there is any power in evil, and it is not going
to get any recognition from me. The Truth about my
199
problem is true now, not next week or next year but
now, and the Truth concerning anything is all that there
is of it.” This is the scientific way of fighting and
harassing error—to see that it has no chance to dig itself
in. This is the General Grant touch.
Judge not according to the appearance, but judge
righteous judgment.
200 Find and Use Your Inner Power
THE LOST COROT
T
here is a quaint old legend which is firmly be­
lieved in the artists’ colony in Paris. It appears that
many years ago a poor struggling artist was so hard up
that he did not have even enough money to buy a piece
of canvas upon which to paint what he felt sure would
be a masterpiece.
Going along the quays he saw an old daub selling
third hand for a few sous, frame included. It was sup­
posed to represent Napoleon III in full dress uniform,
and doubtless had proudly adorned the wall of some
cottage in the days of the Second Empire. The artist
decided that he could clean off the picture and use the
canvas for his own work.
Arrived home, he proceeded to remove Napoleon III,
a task which gave him no trouble, and to his astonish­
ment found that there was another picture under­
neath. The last artist had not even taken the trouble to
remove the original but simply worked over it.
When the last traces of Napoleon III had disappeared,
he was amazed to discover what looked to him like a
very fine Corot. He promptly submitted his find to the
experts. It was pronounced a genuine and very fine
Corot, and, of course, his days of poverty were ended.
Whether this story be truth or fable, it is a perfect
allegory of the nature of man as we know him. Outside
we find the “marred image” showing limitation, sin, sick­
ness, and inharmony—the unskillful daub; but under-
2QI
202
neath is the master work of the Great Artist, and our
prayers and treatment act by clearing away the false
accretions—the “many inventions” of the carnal mind—
that the already existing Truth and Harmony may
appear.
Find and Use Your Inner Power
W H A T A SHAM E!
I
heard an amusing story the other day, and it hap.
pens to be also a great metaphysical parable.
A man was sitting in a train when he noticed that his
neighbor was muttering and grumbling under his breath
in a very angry manner.
He said, “What’s the trouble?”
His neighbor replied, “ I’ve been disgracefully treated,
but I’ll get even.”
Our friend inquired, “What happened?”
The stranger replied, “It was a dream I had last night.”
“A dream?” repeated the astonished inquirer.
“ Yes, I dreamt I was going up Fifth Avenue, New
York, and I picked up a wallet containing a thousand
dollars. It had the name and address of the owner inside,
and, being an honest man, I took it to him immediately.
It was up in the Bronx, and I had a twelve mile journev
and spent a nickel for my subway fare. And what do
you think he did? Thanked me, and handed me a quar­
ter.”
“ He did?”
“ Yes, a thousand dollars; the money was in bills and
I could easily have kept it if I hadn’t been honest. And he
hands me a quarter! It makes me mad that I didn’t kick
him.”
Before his astonished hearer could murmur, “But it
was only a dream,” the train stopped at a station, and the
angry stranger disappeared, still muttering vengeance.
203
For students of metaphysics, comment would be
superfluous. For others, suffice it to say that to worry
over the griefs of yesterday, to allow negative things in
the past to spoil the perfection of today, is just as foolish
as to be angry over the annoyances of a dream.
204 Find and Use Your Inner Power
YO U H A V E A D IV IN E A G E N C Y
S
o m e students of metaphysics are fond of referring ta
themselves as “channels,” channels of Spirit, chan­
nels of Divine Will, etc. The idea is quite correct, but
I am not sure that the word is well chosen. T o me a
channel seems to be rather a hollow thing. T o be a chan­
nel does not seem interesting or inspiring. I prefer to
think of man as the agerit of God, for that is what he is.
A Western Union boy, for example, could be well
called a channel, in that sense, because he conveys a
message from one person to another, but he doesn’t know
what the message is, and, of course, has no interest in it,
and no responsibility; and a telephone operator could
also be thought of as a channel between the two sub­
scribers whom she connects. Compare these positions
with the agent of, say, a business firm. The head office
is, let us suppose, in Chicago. The firm sends an agent
to Denver to transact its business there, perhaps to open
a branch office or store. He represents the firm. He trans­
acts its business—well or ill. If he is industrious and wise,
he makes a great success; or if he is stupid or lazy, he
fails, and the firm gets no business in that town. He is
responsible, he has discretion, and such an agency has
an absorbing interest to the right man.
Or, a government sends an agent to a foreign country,
where he represents the home government; negotiates
all kinds of important arrangements; and, according to
his management of the business, advances or retards the
cause of those who sent him.
205
You are the agent of God at the place where you find
yourself. You have reason, intuition, free will, and self-
determination; and you can be a good and efficient
agent, a poor agent, or a positive detriment, according to
the way in which you conduct your life.
T o be an agent of God is the most wonderful destiny
that you could ever dream of. Practice His Presence in
all that you do and you will indeed be His agent, and
the living witness to the glory of His Name.
206 Find and Use Your Inner Power
H A V E YO U LO ST YO U R W IGW AM ?
D
u r in g the old days in the West, a party of trap­
pers entered a clearing in the forest and found
tiemselves face to face with an Indian who was obvi­
ously lost. The leader said, “ Indian lost?”
The Noble Red Man drew himself proudly up to his
full height and replied, “ No!! Indian not lost. Indian
here. Wigwam lost.”
Nevertheless he was lost, even though he would not
admit it.
When things go wrong with us it is because for the
time being we are lost. W e have lost contact with the
Divine Center of our being, and this loss of contact pro­
duces fear (conscious or subconscious), and this fear
must break out as inharmony in some phase of our lives.
As a rule, people do not like to admit that they have
drifted away from what they know to be the Truth.
They prefer to pretend that somehow it is Divine Har­
mony that has slipped away from them. “ I am not lost,”
is their thought, “ I am here. I am not at fault; it is outer
conditions that are reacting upon me.” Nevertheless, it
is they who are lost, and until they re-establish their
Divine Contact and know the Truth about the inhar­
mony, they cannot find themselves again. They are fool­
ing themselves, like the Indian. Outer conditions are
never cause Intt always effect.
When something goes wrong you must survey the
situation with as little emotion as possible. Then remind
yourself of what you know to be the Divine Truth be­
207
hind the appearance. Then cleave to this, through thick
and thin, and it is only a matter of time before you will
see harmony re-established for all concerned.
The realization of Divine Truth must heal any con­
dition in time.
2oS Find and Use Your Inner Power
I W O N D ER W H Y • • •
M
an y people are bored in a world full of so many
thrillingly interesting things.
People who brag the most usually have the least to
offer, and people who promise the most are usually those
who perform the least.
Human beings cannot arrange to live together in
peace; seeing that we have to stay on the same globe and
there is no way of getting off.
W e are all so conscious of faults and failings in our­
selves; and yet we expect the other fellow to be perfect.
Middle-aged people always think that if they could
start life over again they would make no mistakes; and
yet they do not always act very wisely in the present.
People read so many dull, trashy books and magazines;
and forget the most vitally interesting book of all—the
Bible.
People waste their lives and energies on a thousand
useless, tiresome things; and neglect the only thing that
really matters— finding God.
1 wonder why!
H O W TO G E T A D EM O N STRA TIO N
H
e r e is one way of solving a problem by Scientific
Prayer, or, as we say in metaphysics, of getting a
demonstration.
Get by yourself, and be quiet for a few moments.
This is very important. Do not strain to think rightly
or to find the right thought, etc., but just be quiet. Re­
mind yourself that the Bible says Be still, and know that
l am God.
Then begin to think about God. Remind yourself of
some of the things that you know about Him—that He
is present everywhere, that He has all power, that He
knows you and loves you and cares for you, and so forth.
Read a few verses of the Bible, or a paragraph from any
spiritual book that helps you.
During this stage it is important not to think about
your problem, but to give your attention to God. In
other words, do not try to solve your problem directly
(which would be using will power) but rather become
interested in thinking of the Nature of God.
Then claim the thing that you need— a healing, or
some particular good which you lack. Claim it quietly
and confidently; as you would ask for something to
which you are entitled.
Then give thanks for the accomplished fact; as you
would if somebody handed you a gift. Jesus said, “When
you pray believe that you receive and you shall re­
ceive.” *
Do not discuss your treatment with anyone.
4Matthew 21:22.
n o
How to Get a Demonstration 211
T ry not to be tense or hurried. Tension and hurry de­
lay the demonstration. You know that if you try to un­
lock a door hurriedly, the key is apt to stick, whereas,
if you do it slowly, it seldom does. If the key sticks, the
thing is to stop pressing, take your breath, and release
it gently. T o push hard with will power can only jam
the lock completely. So it is with all mental working.
In quietness and confidence shall be your strength.
NO D EPRESSIO N IN N A T U R E
T
h e majority of the American people have been suf­
fering under a belief in depression for a number
of years, and are only now drawing out of it. It has been
a belief only, because there has been no depression in
nature.
This is the real tragedy, that people have suffered
want in the midst of plenty. The United States is by
far the richest country in the world. It contains, now,
everything that we could possibly want to furnish every
man, woman, and child in the country with a good liv­
ing. There are more minerals in the ground than we can
possibly use. Our factories are filled with the finest
machinery in the world. W e have no lack of highly
trained technicians and skilled workmen. We have all
the labor that we need. A ll kinds of raw material are
available. W e have enormous tracts of the most fertile
soil on the globe. In fact, there is nothing that mankind
could possibly desire that is not available to the American
people now.
If Almighty God Himself were to say to us, “What
are you waiting for? What do you want that I have not
provided you with?” we would be obliged to answer,
“ Nothing.”
If anyone thinks that gold is necessary, the answer is
that we already have the greater part of the gold supply
of the world, right here, and far more than we ever had
in our history before.
So it is obvious that the depression is purely mental
212
and is absolutely nothing but fear. Nature knows noth­
ing of depression, and if we would but rid ourselves of
irrational fear, we need not know it either.
I believe that every unemployed man and woman
could be at remunerative work in thirty days; every
mill and factory working full time; every store doing
capacity business; and every farmer making a good liv­
ing; if the people would shake off the spell of fear.
Those who understand Scientific Prayer can help to
end depression very rapidly if each will know the Spirit­
ual Truth for the whole country in general, and for his
own business in particular, every day.
N o Depression in Nature 213
THE GREAT ADVENTURE
W
hen you are in difficulties, look upon the over­
coming of them as a great adventure. Resist the
temptation to be tragic, to give way to self-pity or di
couragement; and approach the problems as though you
were an explorer seeking a path through Darkest Africa,
or an Edison working to overcome difficulties in con­
nection with a new invention.
You know that there is a way out of any difficulty
whatever, no matter what it may be, through the chang­
ing of your own consciousness by prayer. You know
that by thus raising your consciousness any conceivable
form of good that you can desire will be yours; and
you know that nobody else can by any means hinder
you from doing this when you really want to do it—
•
relatives, customers, employers, the government, bad
times, so-called—nothing can hinder you from the re­
building of your own consciousness—and this rebuilding
is the Great Adventure.
From the chapter, Getting Restdts by Prayer in
Power T hrough Constructive T hinking
214
PROBLEMS AND OPPORTUNITIES
T
h anksgiving D a y , this year, finds us at a point
in world history where, upon the threshold of the
New Age, we are confronted by major problems of
every kind. I think I cannot do better than quote here
what I wrote in the pamphlet, The Historical Destiny
of the United States:
“Now, does all this mean that I think that the future
history of the United States is going to be a simple and
easy path of uninterrupted development? No, I do not
suppose anything of the kind. The fact is, that a quiet
and uneventful life inrather the mark of age and decrepi­
tude than of youth and vigor. It is the destiny of youth
to have great problems and great difficulties to tackle
and to solve, and it is the glory of youth to have the
vision and the energy to do both without fear. When
the life of a man or of a nation becomes gentle and
uneventful, it means that its work is done; but the work
of this nation is only beginning, and I expect, therefore,
that in the years ahead of us there will be great problems
and difficulties and even dangers to be met and over­
come. But I know that as long as the American people
are true to themselves, and to the American Dream; as
long, that is to say, as they remain united in essentials,
so long will they continue to remain undefeated; and
so long will they fulfil their destiny of service to the
world. Difficulties and problems are good things in
themselves because every difficulty overcome is proof
of a further advance in consciousness.”
THE AMERICAN SPIRIT
T
he finest Constitution, and the greatest Declaration
of Independence ever made are but phrases until
they are incorporated into the practical lives of living
people. And so, unless you are seeking to embody the
American Spirit in your own personal life and conduct,
you are no true American, even though you may have
authentic Mayflower ancestry.
If you allow yourself to judge the worth of a man
by anything except his character, if you discriminate
against him for any reason that is outside of his own
control, you are no true American. If you judge him
by his parents, or his connections, or his external con­
ditions, instead of by himself, you are no true American.
If you allow yourself to be hampered by any question
of precedents or traditions, you are no true American.
If you think that any kind of honest work can be de­
grading, or what is called infra dig., you are no true
American. If you would not rather be independent in
plain surroundings, than dependent in luxury, you are
no true American. If you allow yourself to be dazzled
by any exalted office, or intimidated or hypnotized by
pretentious titles or gorgeous uniforms of any kind, you
are no true American. And, unless you believe that the
poorest boy or girl doing chores around the farm, or
playing on the sidewalk of a great city, is just as likely—
given the opportunity—to turn out to be the greatest
soul in the nation as the child who is reared in the lap
of luxury, then you are no true American.
From the pamphlet, T he H istorical D estiny
of the United States
216
THE AMERICAN CONSTITUTION
T
he American Constitution then, would be unwork­
able unless the people were self-reliant, self-deter­
mined, and resourceful. There are nations who do not
care for these things and do not possess them. I suppose
we all have our favorite virtues. My own are self-reliance,
initiative, resourcefulness, courage. I like these things
better than anything else; but there are people who do
not, and there are nations which do not. There are
nations, for example, whose people like to be directed
and ordered about, who like to be led everywhere and
told what to do, and where and when to do it. Such
people can do great things in the world through mass
action, but they could not work such a constitution as
ours. This Constitution calls for people who prefer to
take care of themselves. It is intended for the kind of
men and women who desire to manage their own lives,
and take their own risks, and fend for themselves, and
be personally independent—and these very things are
just the outstanding characteristics of the majority of
American people.
But notice that, among other things, this policy means
that there is sure to be a certain amount of suffering,
because, when we are free we always make some mis­
takes. A convict in prison has very little chance to make
mistakes. He is told when to get up, and when to go
to bed, is given his food and obliged to eat it. He is told
what clothes to wear, what work to do, and how he is
to do it. He is taken out into a yard for exercise, and
when it is thought he has had enough exercise he is
taken back. He can hardly go wrong, he can hardly
217
make a mistake, but neither, of course, does he ever
learn anything. A free man will make mistakes, and he
will learn by them. He will suffer, but suffering is
worth while when you learn something. When you are
not free you cannot learn, and so the suffering is only
wasted.
Note very particularly that the Constitution does not
guarantee equality of lot. You cannot have equality of
lot, because human nature varies. No two men have the
same character. No two men have quite the same amount
of ability. Again, some will have less talent but a strong
character, and go to the top for that reason. Other
men—we all know some of them—have great talents,
but character is lacking, so they remain at the bottom.
This being so, there cannot be equality of lot, but there
can be, and there is in America, true equality, which is
equality of opportunity.
From the pamphlet, T he A merican Spirit
218 Find and Use Your Inner Power
THE CITY ON A HILL
Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot
be hid.
Matthew 5:14
T
he state of your soul is always expressed in your
outer conditions and in the intangible influence
which you radiate at large. There is a Cosmic Law that
nothing can permanently deny its own nature. Emerson
said: “What you are shouts so loudly that I cannot hear
what you say.” In the Bible, the “city” always stands
for consciousness, and the “hill,” or “mountain,” always
means prayer or spiritual activity. “I will lift up mine
eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help.” “Ex­
cept the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but
in vain.” The soul that is built upon prayer cannot be
hidden, it shines out brightly through the life that it
lives. It speaks for itself, but in utter silence, and does
much of its best work unconsciously. Its mere presence
heals and blesses all around it without special effort.
Never try to force other people to accept Spiritual
Truth. Instead, see to it that they are so favorably im­
pressed by your own life and conduct, and by the peace
and joy that radiate from you, that they will come run­
ning to you of their own accord, begging you to give
them the wonderful thing that you have. “I (the Christ
Truth) if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me.”
To do this is to make your soul truly the city upon a
hill that cannot be hidden because it is the Golden City,
the City of God.
Front T he Sermon on the M ount
THE SUPREME RIGHT
I
n the long run, no one can retain what does not
belong to him by right of consciousness, nor be
deprived of that which is truly his by the same supreme
title.
Therefore, you will do well not to lay up to yourself
treasures upon earth, but rather to lay up treasure in
heaven; that is, the understanding of Spiritual Law. If
you are looking to outer, passing, mutable things for
either happiness or security, you are not putting God
first. If you are putting God first in your life, you will
not find yourself laboring under undue anxiety about
anything, for where your treasure is, there w ill your
heart be also.
From T he Sermon on the M ount
220
THE GREAT HIPPODROME MEETING
T
he success of the meeting at the Hippodrome on
March 14 exceeded all expectations. Long before 10
o’clock, a crowd of people filled the sidewalk for the
whole block and down 44th Street, and by the time the
service started over six thousand people were crammed
into the huge auditorium. People sat on the steps and
around the gangways, and the lobbies were also filled,
these having been provided with loud speakers.
It was undoubtedly the greatest meeting that has ever
been held in the Truth movement, and it is a wonderful
proof of the eager desire that people have today for a
demonstrable religion which is purely spiritual.
One of the striking features of the service was the
wonderful character of the meditation. The vast audi­
ence maintained perfect silence for four minutes without
any sense of strain or effort, contemplating the thought:
The Christ of God is reborn in me today with great
power.
In the sermon it was stressed that the second coming
of the Christ is the coming of this Truth to the general
public in this age as never before. Hitherto, throughout
the ages, individuals and small groups have understood
the All-ness and Availability of God, but now for the
first time the mass of mankind is to receive it. This is the
heralding of a new age of individual demonstration. In
consequence of this revolutionary change in thought in
the people’s minds, all sorts of natural, political, and
221
social upheavals will be seen for a few years, but as the
new understanding begins to work out, an era of great
peace, harmony, and unprecedented progress will dawn
for humanity.
(Sunday, March 14, 1937.)
222 Find and Use Your Inner Power
“GENUINE-LIFE PRAYER MEETING AT­
TRACTS EARNEST THOUSANDS”*
S
o m e b o d y said the other day that when you see a
crowd leaving a public building, you can guess
what sort of meetingit has been—whether agospel meet­
ing or a prize fight, a circus or a classical concert—but
that nobody could place the crowd that comes from the
Manhattan Opera House every Wednesday night, be­
cause it contains every kind of person.
“As amatter of fact, it isacross-section of New York’s
population at prayer meeting, the regular Wednesday
evening meeting of the Church of the Healing Christ,
when the pastor, Dr. Emmet Fox, explains the life of
man from the angle of psychology and metaphysics.
“Here in this streamlined setting the ever well known
Wednesday night prayer meeting catches up with life,
as it were. And every week, rain or shine, over 4,000
New Yorkers make their way, in skyscraper fashion, to
this replenishing station for faith, in the opera house.
“That the church chooses to present its message in
this candid camera manner is not illogical in this modern
day and age. But if walls have ears, as the proverb says,
they must ring with amazement as the magic wand is
waved within these four, and they are tuned, week after
week, from swing music to prayer.
“Dr. Fox has found, he says, that the real need people
have—the one thing for which they should really
’ Reprinted from the N ew York World Telegram, Saturday,
October 30, 1937.
« 3
wish—is sufficient knowledge of their own mentality
to enable them to meet every problem and wish as it
arises day by day. He believes that there is a solution to
every problem and that prayer can find it.
uPrayer does change things, is his vital message, and
you must conduct the affairs of your soul in a business­
like way if profitable and harmonious results are to be
forthcoming. It is prayer which opens the door of the
soul so that the Divine Power may work its will. Miracles
can and do happen as the result of prayer.”
224 Find and Use Your Inner Power
SHOW ME THY FACE!
S
how me Thy face—one transient gleam
Of loveliness divine,
And I shall never think or dream
Of other love than Thine;
All other light will darken quite,
All lower glories wane,
The beautiful of earth will scarce
Seem beautiful again.
Show me Thy face—I shall forget
The weary days of yore;
The fretting thoughts of vain regret
Shall hurt my soul no more;
All doubts and fears for future years
In quiet trust subside,
And naught but blest content and calm
Within my breast reside.
Show me Thy face—the heaviest cross
Will then seem light to bear;
There will be gain in every loss
And peace with every care.
With such light feet the years will fleet,
Life seem as brief as blest;
Till I have laid my burden down
And entered into rest.
(Psalm 102: i, 2)
This poem is a wonderful treatment. The author is unknown.
