{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__curtiss___for_young_souls.pdf","mytitle":"For Young Souls","mylang":"de"}
FOR YOUNG SOULS
By
ELEANOR 0. CURTISS
:e:n:a a:
For Bcginuers. Young or Older, Who Wish to Learn
Through Simple Language the Way to Mastery.
:n::a::a:
TBB CURTISS PBILOSOPBIC BooK CoMPANY
5130 Connecticut Avenue
Washington, D. C., U. S. A.
1941
CoPYrlgbt, 1941, by
THE UNIVERSAL REumous FEU.OWSBIP, INc.
Translation and all other right~ rrsen~ed
L. N. FOWLER A CO••
'I Imperial Arade. LuQate Cireaa.
LoDON. E. C.. 4, ENGLAND
FOR YOUNG SOULS
Preface
Reason for this Book.
Since there are very many inquiring
minds and hearts today who cannot grasp
the elaborate philosophical details of the
great essentials of Truth as written for ad-
vanced students, this little volume has been
put forth in simple style for y,mng Souls,
whether yottng in yea1·s or not, who are as
yet unacquainted with some of the deeper
philosophical explanations and great prin-
ciples and conditions of life here and here-
after-and how to apply them.
It is the sincere hope of the author that
th1·ough the study and through the appli-
cation of the simplified information here-
in contained, many wiii find real happiness
as they progress upward on the Path of At-
tainment.
3
A FEW OF
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
TnE VorcE oF Isis
TnE MESsAGE oF AQt:ARIA
TuE INNER RADIASCE
REAL:MS OF TilE LI\'JNG DEAD
Cm.nNc \VoRLD CHANGES
TnE KEv To TilE UNIVERSE
TIIE KEY OF DESTINY
LETTERs FROll THE TEACHER, VoLs. i, ii
THE TRUTH ABOUT E\"oLUTION AND THE
BIBLE
TnE Pnrwsoi'JIY OF \VAR
GEYS OF MYSTICIS:M
Tm: TEYI'LE OF SILENCE
TnE DI\'IXE ~IOTIIER
TnE SouNDLEss SouND
TilE MYSTIC LIFE
TnE Lon: OF RABIACCA
PRAYERS oF TO£ ORDER OF CuRISTIAN
MYSTICS
FouR-FOLD HEALTII
VITA:MINS
Wuv ARE WE HERE?
CONTENTS
Page
Preface _
-----------------------------------------------___ .___
__ 3
Chapter I Your Origin __ ____________________ 7
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
II The House in which
you live ------------------------------ 11
III Tolerance -------------------- 27
IV Criticism ----------------- 31
V Two Selves _______________________ 37
VI Personal Survival __________ 41
VII Fm·giveness ___________________ 45
VIII Reincarnation ----------------- 49
IX Why We Suffer 55
X Giving _______________ 57
XI Love ------------------------------- 59
XII Thanksgiving ------------------ 61
CHAPTER I.
Our Origin
Haven't you asked yourself or someone
else, "Where did I come from1 What am I
here for? How can I make the most of life?"
Well, it has been my privilege to find the
answers to these questions and to many
more which have come to my own mind, and
I want to pass the answers on to you in as
simple a form as possible.
God:
You know, of course, that you were cre-
ated by God. (Some peoples call Him Allah,
some Jehovah, some Ra, and still others
Krishna or Buddha.-but He is the one and
only Creator of us all.)
Heaven:
One day God allowed you to leave your
real home which we shall call Heaven to
come to earth to be tested to see if you could
live a perfect life among the material con-
ditions and temptations of earth. Not hav-
ing done so, weaknesses of character re-
.sulted. This made it necessary for you to
come to earth time after time in order that
you might learn to overcome all of these
weaknesses and become as perfect on the
7
earth as you were in your home in Heaven.
Free-Will:
God gave you a present of free-will to use
for right or for wrong. When you live less
than perfectly, you use it for wrong. For in-
stance, when you are facing a choice be-
tween telling a lie or receiving punishment,
if you tell the lie, you are using your free-
will for 1m·ong. If you choose to stand up
like a soldier and tell the truth, even though
you must be punished for what you did, then
you use your free-will rightly, and are not
guilty of a weakness of character. If you
make a promise, and then think, "Oh, why
bother keeping it?" you are weak if you-
give in to such a thought. If you see that
you have made a mistake in giving a prom-
ise, then ask to be released from it.
Someone is asking why he cannot learn
his lessons or learn to overcome his weak-
nesses in Heaven instead of having to come
to earth over and over. I will tell you why.
There are certain temptations that can be
overcome only in a physical body, such as
overeating, .eating wrong combinations of
foods, not controlling and rightly using
your creative forces of mind and body, (sex,
etc.)
Visits to Earth:
Everybody must learn to overcome all of
his weaknesses sooner or later, on one or
8
another of his visits to earth. Therefore,
the longer he can stay on earth each time
he comes, the more nearly perfect he may
become, the happier he will be, and the
sooner he· will be .ready - strong, clean,
honorable, unselfish, and poised enough -
to live in the most glorious part of Heaven
where there are no more troubles, and
where everything is so beautiful and joyous
that nobody on earth can even imagine it!
Now, then, so that you may learn some of
your lessons, or overcome your tem{>tations
and weaknesses of character as qmckly as
possible, I am going to help you by giving
you some suggestions gleaned from my own
experiences and from those of other per-
sons I have known.
9
CHAPTER II.
The House in 'Vhich You Live
Since God gave you your body to live in
on the earth, you would no more want to
allow it to be in a dirty condition than you
would want your home to be dirty. You
would no more want to abuse this body-
house of yours than you would want to
abuse, disfigure, or burn your family home.
It would be senseless to make your home
uncomfortable and ugly, wouldn't it? Well
then, how much more senseless it would be
to allow your body to become dirty inside
or outside and thus make you uncomfort-
able and other people too. All right, we are
agreed. Now let us see what we can do
about it.
Accidents:
Sometimes when we do not use the best
sense or the inner guidance that God gave
us-for we all have a still, small Voice that
tells us what to do-we may have what are
called accidents. It may take some time to
repair the injured body if it can be repaired
at all. It may be that we must move out of
our body through what is called death. We
are always warned inside (by the still small
Voice of the Christ) of the possibility of an
11
accident, but when we are in too much of a
hurry, we ignore the warning and go 1ight
into the danger zone. Then we must pay
for our disobedience, and perhaps lose our
chance for further progress in this visit
to the earth, which we call an incarnation.
Now, here are some dependable rules for
keeping your body as it should be:
Skin Breathing:
Rule 1. Keep your body clean outside.
Did you know that your skin is made up of
millions of tiny cells that must breathe if
you are to live in that body? Yes, this is
proven to be true. Recently a dear little girl
was chosen to appear in a parade in Cali-
fornia, and her mother, not knowing of
these cells and their having to breathe, al-
lowed her precious little daughter to be
covered with gilt. In just a very short while
the dear child was dead, because the breath-
ing pores were blocked. These tiny cells
can be clogged from dirt, so it is very neces-
sary that you scrub-yes, I mean scrub-
your body at least twice a week, using warm
water and soap. During the warm days of
summer, you need to bathe every day. Mter
your scrub with a brush in warm water,
rinse your body with cool water so as to
close the pores or skin-openings tempor-
arily, and thus keep you from chilling sud-
denly when you leave the warm bathroom.
The warm water is cleansing and the cool
water is stimulating, giving you better cir-
12
culatin. Those who react to cold water feel
wonderfully invigorated after their splash
and brisk rub. In certain Sanitaria, the
nurses give their bed-patients a good rub
with a rough mitten dipped in ice water,
before breakfast. This acts as a good tonic.
Inside Cleansing:
Rule 2. Keep your body clean inside.
How can you do this'! I will tell you. One
way, but not a good way, is to force your
bowels to empty their loads of waste matter
through the regular use of strong laxatives.
Soon your poor bowels become tired of being
driven so hard, and when you keep giving
them more and more of such laxatives it
is like "whipping a tired horse." Now here
is a better way: Once in a while, say once
a month, it is a good idea to rid your body
of its accumulated fluid poisons, as well as
its solid waste matter, by taking on arising
three Seidlitz Powders twenty minutes .
apart. You see, the Seidlitz Powders at-
tract the fluid poisons from all over your
body and carry them off, and you will be
surprised how much fluid is thrown off
through your bowels. Then live on oranges
and grapefruit for a couple of days.
Enema:
The better way to keep the body cleansed
inside is to wash it, and then eat mainly
fruits and .vegetables which will naturally
cleanse the body, and thus not leave an
13
overdose of acid and other harmful debris.
Drink vegetable juices as well as fruit juices
both freshly made. This is how you wash
your body inside: Put a quart of hot water
in your enema bag or can. Insert the enema
tube. Kneel down, putting your shoulder
(preferably your left) to the floor while
you allow the water to flow into your bowels.
If you have a cramp, shut off the flow of
water, and let the water out into the toilet.
Then begin again as above, and if another
cramp comes, then just P.inch the tube to
shut off the water until the discomfort
passes, and then allow the rest of the water
to flow in. After you have held all the water
you can, then massage your bowels upward
toward your waistline. This helps to keep
your bowels from sagging as so many
bowels do on account of the heavy weight
they are made to carry, and also on account
of wrongly fitting clothing. Mter your
massage, let the water out into the toilet.
It may come out in installments with its
load of waste because there are kinks and
folds in your bowels, and sometimes it is not
easy to push the waste matter along rapidly
on that account. The whole proceedure
should not take over twenty minutes. Walk
around between the times you need to empty
to relieve the strain on the bowels.
Take such an enema once a day until you
have two easy movements in addttion to the
enema. Then take one at least once a week
so as to keep in fit condition. If you can
14
comfortably rinse your bowels with a cup
or two of cold water after the warm enema,
it will help to stimulate your bowels.
Do not allow anyone to persuade you that
enemas are habit-forming, because we know
from such experience that enemas e1n·e
constipation instead of causing it, es{>ecially
when you help by eating raw fruits and
vegetables.
Correct Eating:
Rule 3. Now that you are clean inside
and out, let us learn how to build perfect
bodies through proper eating (not starva-
tion or dieting at all).
(a) Chew your food so that it will be-
come creamy and you can almost drink it.
Did you know that the best taste from food
comes when it is in liquid form after
thoroughly chewing it? Try it and see.
And here is a great discovery made by a
very wise Physician: "Hunger and thirst
are satisfied in the mouth, not in the stom-
ach." 1
Mastication:
All right, since you are the boss, you
aren't going to allow your tongue, your
teeth, and your jaws to be lazy while your
stomach has to work overtime trying to
make up for their laziness, or rather, your
~- F. Homer Curtiss in Four-/old Health. Dr. Curtiss
now has available an excellent tonic-laxative and a bowel
antiseptic also.
15
allowing them not to do the work they
otherwise should do. Then too, there IS
certain work that the stomach just cannot
do, no matter how hard it tries, and that is
the work the teeth, tongue, and saliva must
do, if you are to feel right. Let me show
you more clearly what I mean: Breads,
porridge, and other foods containing con-
centrated starches must be mixed with sali-
va in the mouth before they can be digested.
Hence much chewing (masticating) must
be done before such foods are fit to be swal-
lowed and turned over to the stomach, if you
want to avoid trouble. It is as unwise to
swallow starchy food that is not thoroughly
masticated as it is to put water or gravel
in your automobile instead of gasoline. It
just will not work smoothly.
Starting the Day:
(b) Start the morning by thanking God
for the night's rest and asking Him to guide
you through the day. Then, as soon as you
get out of bed, wash your mouth with salty
water and then immediately drink a full
glass of orange juice or grape-fruit juice
or the juice of half a lemon in a glass of
water (either hot or cold). This will help
to alkalize your body and cleanse the canal
that leads from your mouth through your
stomach and through your bowels, and thus
prepare the way for your breakfast. (Some
people do not want anything else for break-
fast.) Well, after you drink, take your bath
16
and dress, not forgetting your prayer and
a few exercises1
especially stretching ones,
all of which will consume about an hour,
when your stomach will be emptied and
ready for breakfast. Some one is asking
what alkalizing means. Nearly everybody
has far too much acid in his or her body,
and acid causes sickness. When you alka-
lize you get rid of the excess acid.
Breakfast:
(c) Now that you are ready for break-
fast, let me suggest one or two correct ones:
A dish of figs, dates and raisins with cream;
or any one of such fruits with cream. An-
other breakfast for active people is a
crunchy cereal with figs and cream (not
milk, as I will explain later.) Another good
breakfast for someone in a hurry is a glass
of orange juice and a glass of milk. Still
another is what we call a "pep cocktail" and
it is a glass of orange jmce or grapefruit
juice beaten with a little honey ·and nutmeg
and the yolk of an egg.
Compatible Foods:
(d) Be sure to eat foods at the same meal
that are friendly (compatible) to one an-
other. Did you know tliat some foods fight
others? Yes, you see certain foods require
one kind of stomach juice to digest them,
and they do not like it when other foods
come in to stop the flow of their kind of
juice. When this happens, a fight starts,
17
and one kind of food will just have to be
knocked out and die, lying there fermenting
and giving out a bad odor just as dead things
do. (This makes a bad breath.) Now you
want to know which foods are friendly to
one another and which ones are enemies.
All right, I will tell you, and if you learn
this, you will learn one of the greatest
sec1·ets of health and st1·ength. You will
recall that I told you to drink your juice an
hour before breakfast when cereals and
toasts might come along? That was be-
cause the acid of the fruit dislikes the starch
of the cereal or bread. The jrztit also dis-
likes suga1· (excepting honey or maple
sugar, which are natm·al sweets.) The
sta1"ch in the bread or cereal likes sugar of
all kinds but it is far better to use natural
sweets, for they are neutral and do not de-
cay your teeth as the refined sugars do.
I said I would tell you why you should not
take milk with a starchy food such as bread
or cereal; and this is why: Milk is a protein
and p1·oteins dislike sta1·ches. Now, don't
you see why? When the starches in your
stomach are calling forth their own digest-
ive juice, they will fight when a protein
enters the stomach and calls out an acid
juice which prevents the digestion of the
starches.
Summary:
Now, let me sum up the food-combination
question, using baseball language: On one
18
side are the concentrated sta1·ches (Bread,
Cake, Pie, Cookies, Macaroni, Spaghetti,
Rice, Potatoes, Beans, Cereals, Dried Peas,
Peanuts, Popcorn, Pumpkin, Sago, Squash,
Tapioca, Bannanas and Artichokes.) On
the same side are the sweets (Candy, Ice
Cream, Jellies, Jam, Preserves, Sugar and
Molasses.) On the other side are the pro-
teins (Cheese, Eggwhites, Fish, Fowl, Meat,
Milk, Nuts (excepting Almonds and Cash-
ews which are friendly to all). On the same
side as proteins are also the fruits (Apples,
Oranges, Grapefruit, Cherries, Lemons, etc.
-but we cut out Cranberries and Rhubarb
altogether because they are too acid for
anybody, and nobody would eat them with-
out sugar, and they fight sugar to death.)
You ask me, "What about all the vege-
tables and fats?" Well, I am glad to say
these two classes (all the vegetables except-
ing dried beans and dried peas and potatoes
and the others mentioned under starches)
as well as butter, cream, oil, and other fats,
are friendly with all other foods, and among
themselves. Since we want to make this
so easy for you that you can decide at once
whether or not a meal or a combination is
correct, at the end of this chapter is a chart
of foods all listed in a form that you can get
into your mind quickly. Study this care-
fully because I am going to test you pretty
soon to see how quickly you can answer me
correctly. See if I can catch you. Then
when you, know, try catching your parents
19
or friends who are inte1·ested in becoming
healthy, strong and youthful. Before I ask
you these questions, let me sug~est that you
learn the Classes of foods, puttmg one class
on each of the fingers of one hand, like this:
Let the thmnb represent the starches be-
cause it is stout and starches make people
stout. The pointer or fi1·st finger is the
sugars. The middle finger is the vegetables
and the fats. The ring-fingel· is the protein.
The little finger is the fruit or acid finger.
Now notice that your two finger "S's" are
together because they are friendly. Then
notice that your tall finger is named fats and
vegetables (Fat-Vegetable) and stands in
the middle because he is friendly to all (a
"go-between"). Then Proteins and Acids
are together because they are friendly to-
ward one another. We are keeping the
Starches and the Sugars away from the
Acids and the Proteins because they are
enemies. We placed the big Fat-Vegetable
as a Policeman between them so as to keep
them apart.
Questions:
Now see if I can catch..you! Is a meat
sandwich all right for health? If not, why
not? Is apple pie all right? If not why not?
After eatmg meat at a meal, should you
eat ice cream and cake for dessert? If not,
why not? Is it all right to have fruit and
bread at the same meal? If not, why not?
Are steak and French-fried potatoes com-
20
patible1 Do spaghetti and tomatoes go
together all right? If not, why not1 Are
preserved fruits all right to eat? If not,
why not? What kind of sandwiches are
correct? Make an ideal menu for break-
fast, luncheon and for dinner. Will you
write me your answers? I will take tune
to correct and·mark them.
Food Proportions:
(e) Always see that your foods for the
day are chosen this way:. 80% from the
fruits and vegetables, and 20% from the
other lists. You see most sickness comes
from eating too many starches, sweets,
fats, and proteins, for these cause acidity.
Then too, as we said before, it is the fruits
and vegetables that tend to keep your
bowels open and free from constipation.
Excitement or Anger:
(f) Never eat when you are excited or
nervous or angry, because at such times
your saliva glands and your stomach
glands are inactive, and as a result, your
food just lies in your stomach and ferments.
Your blood, not knowing any better, taKes
up the products of fermented matter and
distributes them all around your body. No
wonder you have headaches, and feel sick
at your stomach. If you feel you must have
something, then just take a glass of fruit
juice, adding, if you wish, a glass of milk.
Remember that fruit (especially orange
21
juice) should be taken with milk so as to
counteract the tendency of the milk to
form mucous in your body. An adult does
not need milk as his bones are formed.
Body-Temples:
You have been receiving in these rules
some exact ways of keeping yourself fit,
and for making your body a clean "temple"
for God to dwell in. You know the Bible
says, "Know ye not that ye are the temple
of the living God?" Knowing this, you
would no more want to have your body-
temple unclean than you would want com-
pany to visit your home when it was unclean
and in a disorderly condition
Habit:
I heard one person say, "Oh, it is too much
trouble to live that way." What would you
answer? My answer is that it is easier to
live the right way than the wrong way. It
is cheaper too because you save on doctor
bills when you live 1ight. When you form
tlze habit of living clean and right, you will
never want to live any other way, because
you will be so full of life and joy that you
would shudder at the thought of being
dirty inside as you used to be.
Doubters:
You may say, "I can eat anything. I
wouldn't know I had a stomach. I feel won-
derful." That may well be. However, if
22
you had heard the cries of regret we have
heard from people who used to talk that
way, you would be very glad when we tell
you that every time you eat wrongly, you
are accumulating more and more waste-
matter in the cells of your body until some
day when Nature cannot stand any more,
you will suddenly collapse and either pass
on, or perhaps have some incurable disease.
You who are wise have taken warning.
Now that you have been taught how to
deal with your body, if through practice,
you have a keen mind and happy thoughts,
you are ready to proceed to the next Chap-
ter. If any of you have not practiced what
has been given you in this Chapter, your
brains may be so laden with waste matter
that you could not clearly understand just
what we are going to give you. Therefore,
do not try the next work until you have
mastered your body lessons.
NOTE :-All the above instructions are given you with
the approval of Dr. F. Homer Curtiss. Those who are
under our direct care receive full and accurate diagnosis
and also personal dietetic, radionic, medical, and psycho-
analytical treatment.
23
Here is the promised chart:
1
Starches
Artichokes
Bananas
Beans (dried)
Breads
Cereals
Com
Flour Products
(cake, pie, etc.)
Pastries
Peanuts
Peas (dried)
Popcorn
Potatoes
Pumpkin
Rice (polished)
Sago
Squash (winter)
Tapioca
Sweets
Candy, Cake, etc.
Dates
Figs
Honey
Ice Cream
Maple Sugar
Molasses
Preserves
Raisins
Sugar (white
& brown)
Syrups
2
Fats
Animal Fats
Avocadoes
Bacon
Butter
Cocoanut
Cod Liver Oil
Cream
Egg Yolks
Lard
Oily Nuts
Vegetable Oils
3
Proteins
Cheese
Rggs (whites)
Game
Gelatine
Meats
Milk
Nuts (excepting
chestnuts anc
peanuts)
All Sea Food
Alkaline-forming Foods
2. Fruits
Vegetables Apples
Roots Corn-on- Apricots
Beets Cob Berries
Carrots Cress Bananas
Celery Cucumbers Cherries
Root Dandelion Currants
Kohlrabi Dulce Dates
Mangel- Egg Plant Figs
wurtzel Endive Grapes
Mushrooms Greens Grapefruit
Onions Peppers Lemons
Parsnips Green Melons
Radishes Peas Oranges
Salsify Kale Peaches
Turnips Lettuce Pears
Green Okra Persim-
Asparagus Olives mons
Beans Parsley Pineapple
(string) Pimento Prunes
Beet Tops Pumpkin Raisins
Brussels Spinach Tangerines
Sprouts Swisschard
Broccoli Squash
Cabbage Sauerkraut
Cauliflower Tomatoes
Celery (Uncooked)
Chicory
N. 8.-coolr.ed aplnach and cooked tomat.oea contain oxalic acid, ao
ahould be nten not oYer twice a week.
Criap bacon llllaJ' be eomblned with tout.
Nota that eca J'ellr.a are a fat, ao may be taken with bread or
tout.
Jlelona ahould be taken alone and 110t at mnls.
Sallta Clara prunea are not ao acld-fonnlna u other PI'IID•.
24
All foods in column 1 are not to be taken
at the same meal with those in column 3.
(1 and 3 are enemies).
Foods in column 1, (Starches and Sweets)
may be taken with one another.
Foods in column 3, (Proteins and Fruits)
may be taken with one another.
Foods in column 3 (Fats and Vegetables)
may be taken with any foods in the chart.
Honey and Maple Sugar are the excep-
tional sweets, being natural, and so may be
taken with the foods in column 3 as well as
all other foods.
We omit rhubarb and cranberries entirely
because of their harmful acid effect and be-
cause you always require sugar to make
them palatable.
Almonds and cashews may be combined
with any other foods because they are alka-
line-forming.
Baked potatoes, especially the skin, are
alkaline in reaction.
Carbohydrates include starches a n d
sweets.
25
CHAPTER III.
Tolerance
Change Noted
Having seen a large number of persons
who changed from cross, irritable, un-
healthy looking individuals into cheerful,
peaceful, healthy, and good looking, I am
hoping that all of you who have studied and
learned the lessons in Chapter 1 of this
book, have showed your good sense by ap-
plying them to your own lives, deciding to
live the healthy way always. Taking it for
granted that you have, I am ready now to
give you some even harder lessons, know-
ing you are now eager and alert because
your bodies and brains are clean and
healthy. By the way, sometimes it takes
from two to five years to purify completely
some bodies because they have been clogged
so long with waste matter.
Tolerance:
The first lesson you faithful and wise ones
are given is that of TOLERANCE. What
is tolerance'! Just this: Giving others the
same right to their ideas and opinions as
you claim for yourself, and being pleasant
about it. You know that all people cannot
27
think alike. In fact, no two think exactly
alike even if they are brought up exactly
alike, because no two have had exactly the
same experiences in past lives, to say noth-
ing of this life. If we think somebody else is
weaker than we, let us not condemn him.
\Ve must be carefullest we become too cock-
sure of ourselves, and the one we condemn
,gets ahead of us on the road of progress.
No part of the road is easy, but nothing is
wo1·th gaining that is not worth st'riving
~~ ,
Backsliders:
As long as we are thinking unkind things
about other people, we are not climbing, but
sEding backward. The very persons about
whom we are thinking intolerant thoughts,
and about whom perhaps we are saying un-
kind things may be farther along the Path
of Attainment (Progress) than we arc. We
must remember that there may be just as
many thin_gs to criticize about us as there
are about the other person. There is some
good in everybody, so let us ·look for that
rather than for mistakes. Who doesn't
make mistakes?
"Kuh":
Would you like to hear about the "KUH"
Club? I will let you in on the secret of this
Club, for I know you will want to join it.
Whenever any one of the members says or
begins to say anything unkind al)out any-
body, or acts selfishly or wants to do some-
thing or say something dishonest, one or
more of the members of the Club will call
out, "KUH !" What do you suppose they
mean? Here it is: K stands for kind. U
stands for unselfish, and H stands for
honest. So when they ask, "KUH" they
mean, Is it KIND? U N S E L F I S H ?
HONEST? You see this is a splendid way
to stop lots of gossip and hurts, as well as
lots of Karma.
Karma:
What do I mean by Karma? Just what
St. Paul meant when he said, "Whatsoever
a man soweth, that shall he also reap." In
other words, what we send out in thou~ht,
word or deed, will come back to us in kmd.
Karma is the Law of Cause and Effect. Now
you may form a club of your own, and see
what fun you will have catching one an-
other, and at the same time how much good
you can do in helping one another to grow
kind, unselfish, honest, and so, Christ-like.
Foreigners:
Are you tolerant with foreigners1 Mter
all what are foreigners? Just people who
live or lived where we do not live. Is that
wrong? Suppose I said I was born in Colo-
rado, and you were not, so you were not as
good as I. Would that make sense1 We
have so much to be ashamed of in ourselves
that we have no right to criticize others.
29
Let us imagine a group of babies, one Brit-
ish, one Japanese, one German, one French,
one Swedish, one Mexican, one Mrican, one
Spaniard, etc. Supposing they were all
brought up alike m feeding, worshiping
God, and in every other way. If the out-
side world were kept from them, do you
suppose they would know anything about
rivalries, antagonism, race hatred, and
wars? Their individualities would come
out, for even people of one family show
their individual characters, but they should
live together in peace and friendship and
not expect others to believe exactly what
they do. Get to work on yourself now. You
will have much to do before proceeding
further.
30
CHAPTER IV
Criticism
How are you enjoying being tolerant1 I
am sure you have said many a "KUH" and
have had it shouted at you too, and you are
all the better for it.
Face \Vithin:
Here is another lesson that seems to me
to be even harder than the one on Tolerance.
When somebody says something unkind
about YOU, what do you do about it? Do
you go off and sulk? Do you become angry
and want to fight back with ugly words?
If you do, you are not only wasting time and
e_nergy but you are losing the battle. What
then should you do? First of all, look with-
in yourself to see if there is not something
that attracts to you, this show of seeming
unkindness. You know "like attracts like,"
and so perhaps you merited this unkind re-
mark in some way. In many cases, you will
find the cause of the trouble within yourself,
and when you do, then face yourself square-
ly and say, "All right, here is my chance to
improve. I am thankful for the remark that
brought this fault of mine to my attention."
31
Ifyou cannot honestly find any fault with-
in yourself that would cause unkindness
from another, then do you not think the
wise thing to do would be to pray, "Father,
forgive them for they know not what they
do"? Jesus did that, and whose example
could be grander? Then you will not be
poisoned in mind and body by the forces of
resentment or anger. Yes, I mean poisoned,
because it has been proven scientifically
that anger puts into your bloodstream so
much poison that a drop of blood from an
angry person would kill a small animal into
whose veins it was injected. Then too, more
evil thoughts will come back to you if you
send them out, for the law we mentioned
before always works: "Whatsoever a man
soweth that shall he also 1·eap."
It is a sign of ignorance to criticize, a sign
of jealousy, a sign of lack of principle. You
recall the old saying: "An idle brain is the
Devil's workshop?" Let us do as our Master
taught us: "Love your neighbor as your-
self."
Now here is a sneaky little sin that tries to
creep in when you are not looking. It tries
to get you to do nice things just for what
you will get in return. Watch out for it,
because it would spoil much of the good you
might do. Ask the Christ to help you to
want to do kindnesses just for tlze sake of
giving joy to someone else and glorifying
32
God. Here is a splendid thing to do, and one
that will work too, if you are in earnest:
\Vhat to Do:
Every morning and every time you feel
naughty thoughts coming in, pray either
silently or aloud, "0, Christ, please think
through me; feel through me; speak
through me; and act through me. Thank
you. Amen." When your mind is filled with
this prayer then none of the evil thoughts
can find lodgment in your mind or heart.
Thoughts:
You see even your thoughts can be felt
by others, so you will need to keep them as
clean and kind as your tongue. Yes,
thoughts rush out of your mind to the place
you send them, and they bring b~ck to you
the same kind of force that you sent out,
so watch out!
Your Face:
Did you know that your face shows the
kind of thoughts you think? Yes, just
look in the mirror and see if it is 1-eftecting
kind and loving thoughts. Do this each day
and watch the improvement. Ask God or
the Christ (who is God's Ray in you, some-
times called your Higher Self) to keep
your thoughts clean. That is what is meant
in the beautiful prayer: "Create in me a
clean heart, 0 Lord, and renew a right
spirit within me." Ask God to wash your
33
heart and mind clean and to help you to
overcome all the sins of past incarnations
which have left their mark on your face and
on your body too. Even if a face is not
beautiful in features it may become radiant-
ly lovely and strong th1·ough right think-
ing and prayer.
Our Teacher often says: "It is not persons
or things or circumstances that hurt us, but
our 1·eaction to them." In other words, it is
our reactions and our thoughts about things
and circumstances as well as om· feelings
about them that do us good or harm. I like
to put it this way:
'Tisn't things that make you happy
Nor lack of things that makes you blue;
It's thoughts that bring you joy or sorrow,
So it's strictly up to you.
The Blues:
One of our students wrote: "Recently I
awakened with a great sense of depression
or blues. If I had given in to them and gone
downstairs among the family and among
other people, I should have made them all
feel my gloom. I remembered what you had
taught me, so I went right to the bathroom
and took an enema to get rid of my body
poisons that I· knew had something to do
with my blues. Then I prayer to God to
flood me with His love and cheer, and fin-
ished by asking that He would think and
feel and act through me. In a half hour I
34
went downstairs cheerful and happy over
the victory I had won with God's help, and
I noticed that others smiled because of my
smiles." One of life's greatest thrills is the
feeling of victory over one's own temper
or blues or other weakness. Try it and see
for yourself, and keep trying until you win.
35
CHAPTERV
Two Selves
By this time, if you have been faithfully
practicing what you have learned in the
previous chap~ers, you should be feeling
pretty fine. No doubt you have had some
pretty hard tussles with yourself, because
you have two personalities; that Is to say,
you have a lower or animal self and also a
Higher or Spiritual Self. The lower self
is selfish, hot-tempered, and everything that
is not admirable. The Higher Self is kind,
loving, tolerant, poised, obedient, and alto-
gether like the Christ. Nowf your job is to
get that lower or smaller se f to give in to
the fine Higher Self. Let us pretend that
your lower self is your dog. If you have a
dog, do you allow him to run all over the
house, tearing things to pieces and having
his own way generally1 I don't think you
do. What do you say to him when you want
him to obe[ you1 "Go lie downI" Don't
you1 Wei , then when this naughty, ani-
mal self tries to run you and your house
and wants to be ugly and cross and say mean
things, just try telling him to "Go lie down!"
It is not easy to do, but this method may
help some of you more sometimes than the
prayer way. Then when this has become
37
e~sy, try the prayer way, asking your
Christ, or Higher Self, to express through
you.
Discontent:
Well, you are wondering if I am going
to give you something more to conquer in
this chapter. Yes, I believe you are now
strong enough to take something else. So
many persons have come to us with their
spirit of discontent lately that I am going to
tell you what causes it and how to overcome
it.
Sometimes discontent (being dissatisfied)
comes as a result of feeling sony for your-
self, or what we call self-pity. There is noth-
ing so depressing and nothing that will
make other people want to stay away from
you more than self-pity. It shows that you
have a selfish disposition and a weakness,
for if you were strong you would tell that
feeling of self-pity to "Go lie down!" Mter
you have said this and meant it, you must
have something to take the place of the
selfish thoughts, so immediately turn to the
Christ within your heart and pray: "Dear
Christ, please tell me what to think and say
and do, now, so that no other bad thoughts
can come into my mind."
You will sooner or later be shown some
loving things to do. Perhaps it may be to
sweep the sidewalk in front of the house, or
clean the basement, or straighten your room
38
or your clothes, or weed the lawn, or dry the
dishes, or take some flowers to a sick person,
or read something helpful to a sick or blind
person, or write a kind, helpful letter to
somebody who would be made happy by it.
Or you might tell somebody about this little
book and how you have been helped by it,
or you can ask your mother or your father
or somebody else if there is not something
you may do to help him or her. A way
will always be open for you if you really
want to be helpful. If you don't want to be
helpful, then you will know that it is your
smaller, animal self that is ruling you, and
you know what to do then, so that you may
be happy and be growing in character.
Happiest Moments:
Isn't it fun to play the game of life and
win it? The happiest moments of your life
are those when you (your Higher Self) have
been the winner over the lower self, and
when you are making other people happy.
Try it and see. Have you practiced and
mastered all the foregoing Lessons?
39
CHAPTER VI
Personal Survival
My friend, for by this time we are friends,
having gone through many experiences of
the same kind, and having conquered our
lower, animal personalities to a marked de-
gree in many mstances. To be sure, we all
fail at times, but only a worm does not get
up, so let us straighten our shoulders, smile
and try again.
While you are practicing the several les-
sons already given you, we shall give you
some interesting information about the life
after what we call death. Let me tell you
first of all, that there is no deatk for the
spirit, for we never die but just leave this
physical body, to live in another, finer body
that only a few people are able to see. Those
who can see our finer bodies have their
inner or psychic eyes is developed naturally,
-from birth as a rule-so they can see
many things that are going on in the next
realm above this one which we call earth.
Astral:
Let us imagine this earth as made up of
layers and many more layers outside the
earth that we cannot see. We will call
41
these layers 1·ealms. The first realm, \vhich
is made up of seven regions, is called the
astJ·al realm. This astral realm is the first
one we go to when we leave our physical
bodies. Our Teacher puts it this way: "We
go one flight up with our overcoats off."
Then he points out that when a person takes
his overcoat off, he is still the same pe1·son.
Just so when he takes off his physical body
he is still tile same pe1·son; having the same
disposition, the same faults, and even looks
the same only a little better. If he has been
cross and mean on this earth, he is the same
in the astral realm; and if a person likes
to be kind and make others happy here on
earth, he will want to do the same in the
astral realm, helping those either on the
earth or in the astral realm. Oftentimes
people do not realize for a while that they
have left their physical bodies or "died" as
some people call it, and they do not under-
stand why their families and their friends
do not speak to them. Then after this goes
on for a time, they begin to wonder if they
have left their earth bodies, and they see
that they have a finer body. So you see our
bodies are just our houses which should
become "the temples of the living God,"
whether we live on the earth or in some
other realm.
Fortune Telling:
Now here is something for you to remem-
ber in case someone wants to give you a
42
"reading'' or tell your fortune. (We call
those who can see and hear our loved ones
and others in the astral realm mediums or
]Jsychics.) Since you know now that those
who pass on into the astral realm, after
leaving- their bodies, are just the same per-
sons they were while in their bodies, you
should not believe that everything they are
reported by the medium as saying is any
more right and wise than you would believe
it to be if they were living in their bodies
on earth. It is interesting and kind some-
times to allow our loved ones to give us a
message through some medium who is re-
liable, but we must be vel"y careful not to
follow their advice unless we feel that it is
accordin~ to wisdom of our own Hi.rrher
Self or the Christ within us. {Or own con-
science.) With rare exceptions, mediums
reach people only on the astral plane, al-
though there are far higher realms.
Higher Realms:
The next realm to the several astral re-
gions is called the mental realm, and this is
where those with brilliant minds and good
hearts dwell. Great inventions are devel-
oped there, and sometimes the great invent-
ors there succeed in getting their wonder-
ful ideas through to inventors on the ea1th
by impressing these ideas on their minds.
Beyond the mental realms are the glorious
spiritual realms commonly called Heaven,
43
but these are glorious beyond even our
power of imagination. However, when you
leave your physical body, you will go where
you deserve to go, according to the life ymt
have lived on, the earth.
This is all of this subject for this time,1
for
I would not wish to confuse you. I just feel
that you should know something of the
other side of life so that you will have no
fear of going there when your visit on earth
is over. You see, ignorance is no excuse for
condemning or for making mistakes. There-
fore, you should want to know all sides of
life so as not to make mistakes unneces-
sarily.
' For details see Realms of the I~iving Dead, Curtiss.
44
CHAPTER VII
Forgiveness
By this time, some of you wish to ask
some questions, so I have decided to invite
you to write to me so that I may help you
with your problems. You may send me
what offerings you wish, to help cover the
postage and paper and time. Jesus said:
"Bear ye one another's burdens and so ful-
fill the Law of Christ." All right, let us help
bear one another's burdens. My address is
in the front of this book.
Today I will tell you about someone with
whom I was talking this.week. She told me
how dreadfully someone had hurt her feel-
ings, and how she resented it and grieved
about it for months. Then she added: "Now
I am all over it and I don't feel hurt any
more-BUT I could no more go to her house
than anything!" What is wrong? You
see she had overcome the feeling of resent-
ment and hurt, and for that we give her
credit, but she had not forgotten the hurt,
and so really way down deep she was still
holding a bit of the old resentment, which
was keeping her from full forgiveness and
45
from the joy and freedom that result. In
other words, you have to learn not only to
forgive but to forget. You are saying:
"How can you make myself forget?" I
will tell you. Every time the old hurt or the
old circumstances comes to your mind, just
say, ''God bless him (or her)" and then turn
your thoughts to something else. At first
it will be hard, but after a while you can do
it with such kindly feeling that really the ·
hurt is entirely forgotten and you can greet
the person who hurt you as cordially and
lovingly as if the unpleasantness had never
happened.
This is one of the hardest, but one of the
grandest lessons you can ever learn, and
through learning it you will make much
progress on the Path of Attainment. Men
usually learn it more quickly than women
do. They have it out and then shake hands,
while women are more apt to gossip about
it and hold the old grudge. By the way,
don't talk about your h·oubles or dislikes,
because they grow in your mind every time
you do. If you feel that you just must tell
someone, write it all out to me and send it,
or tell someone else to whom God guides
you, if you feel like it. But begin to say,
"God bless her" right away, so as not to
waste precious time and slip backward.
The other day a woman whom we shall
call Mrs. B. wrote us that she had seen in a
newspaper that a friend of hers (Mrs. X.)
46
had been accused of deceit, and that now she
would never have anything to do with her
again! Do you think Mrs. B. did the right
thing? I feel sure that you would act quite
differently. Let me guess what you would
do. 1st, you would consider that news-
papers very often misinterpret the truth
since they seek sensationalism (which will
sell their papers) no matter whom it may
hurt. 2nd, if Mrs. X had done wrong, you
would try to help her by praying jm· he1·,
or if you knew her, you would try to help
her see the wrong and love her into wanting
to do right. Always reach down to help
somebody up by showing her the way. But
that does not mean to get down and do
what she does in order to show her that.you
understand. Always give the other person
the benefit of the doubt. Forgive and forget
always. Confess your own sins and set
about making amends as quickly as pos-
sible.
47
CHAPTER VIII
Reincarnation
In Chapter III refe1·ence was made to
"past incarnations." Therefore, I believe
it is right that I should give you a little
more information on that subject also. Let
me do it this way: You have noticed that in
the fall of the year, leaves fall from the
trees, leaving bare branches looking as
though they were dead. However, they are
not really dead, but during the fall and
winter seasons the trees are busy preparing
for another bursting forth or rebirth into a
new garb or incarnation the next spring.
Rebirth:
Next Spring the tree is the same old tree,
but it has a new "dress." Just so with us,
for when we put off our body "overcoats" to
which we referred in Chapter V we are still
the same persons, and like the trees, we pre-
pare to come forth in the new outer gar-
ment or body when the right season comes.
You know too that the trees have the same
~eneral appearance as they had in their last
mcamation, and so have we. Yes, actual
photographs show such distinct similarity in
appearance between persons in their former
49
bodies and in their present bodies that one
can recognize the personality immediately.
The only value in knowing who we were be-
fore is in our learning not to continue the
same faults that we had befm·e. However,
we know our own weaknesses usually and
our business is to conque1· them,, and so ac-
complish that for which we came to earth
this time.
Jesus' Belief:
The great Master Jesus believed in rein-
carnation, for He said in Matthew xi, 14,
speaking of John the Baptist: "This is Eli-
as, etc." How could John the Baptist be
Elias unless Elias had reincarnated as John
the Baptist? He also asked: "Whom do men
say that I, the Son of Man am?" and His
disciples answered, "Some say that thou
art John the Baptist; some say Elias; and
others Jeremias, or one of the prophets."
Then again in Matthew we see, "For this is
he (John) that was spoken of by the pro-
phet Elias saying, 'The voice of one crying
in the wilderness, Pre·pare ye the way of
the Lord! . . . And the same John had his
raiment of camel's hair and a leathern
girdle about his loins; and his meat (food)
was locusts and wild honey." In 2 Kings
1:7-8 we see that Elijah (Elias) was a
"hairy man and girt with a girdle of" leather
about his loins" just like John. There are
other passages in the Scriptures bringing
out this fact of reincarnation, but you of
50
reasonable minds do not need any more
quotations.
Inequalities:
Therefore, let us go on to explain that
the only way we can reconcile the many
inequalities (great differences in stations
in hfe) with the fact of a loving God of
wisdom and justice, is through reincarna-
tion as follows: A poor man or woman or
child who is struggling to find enough to
eat and wear, really chose to come into this
life in such conditions so as to learn cer-
tain lessons which could not be learned in
any other way. He or she may have been
wealthy in a former life, but perhaps selfish
also, and with no sympathy for the poor
people, so hard conditions in this life will
teach him or her to be kind and humble.
Then what about those who are wealthy
in this incarnation? They also have prob-
ably chosen this path of wealth that they
may learn certain lessons which may be
harder to lea1·n than those of the poor. You
recall that the Bible says that it is more
difficult for a rich man to enter the King-
dom of Heaven than it is for a camel (or
rope) to go through the eye of a needle.
Why is this? He is so busy spending and
takmg care of his wealth that he forgetS
to pray oftentimes, and forgets to use his
wealth to give many others a chance to
make good. For instance, if some wealthy
51
persons would put large funds into such
hands as ours, we could teach many thou-
sands how to make the most of their lives,
and how to overcome their problems, thus
making progress during this incarnation._
Parents:
Yes, we choose our parents and our en-
vironment. However, occasionally when a/
Soul is anxious to come back to earth to
learn certain lessons and he cannot come
through the parents he chooses, he must
take the next best parents he can find. Thus
sometimes a child does not seem to fit into
a family. He finds more happiness among
certain friends he had known, perhaps, in
a former incarnation, and his family think
him queer. But now you understand why
this is.
Perfection:
Another point: If we are expected to
attain perfection, (the Bible says, "Be ye
also perfect even as your heavenly Father
is perfect") would it be fair to expect us to
become so in just the few years of one
incarnation? How about the babies that
pass on? Would that be fair to them?
Well, somebody says, you can learn the rest
of your lessons in Heaven. It was brought
out to you in Chapter I that there are cer-
tain lessons that can be learned only in a
physical body where there are physical
temptations. The money question must be
52
solved in a physical body; envy of beautiful
clothes or of a car or of a beautiful home,
or other possessions, must be overcome in
a physical body, where such things are used.
There are beautiful homes in the astral
which may be earned, but we will not go into
that just now.
Recognition:
Sometimes you feel you know someone
as soon as you meet him or her. Why?
Because you have known each other in a
former incarnation. You will be attracted
to those whom you have hated as well as
to those whom you have loved. Remember
that law.
63
CHAPTER IX
Why We Suffer
You probably ask, as many others do,
why innocent people have to suffer, such as
the innocent in warring countries. I will
answer in as simple a way as possible. Each
of us chooses to be born in the country in
which we appear. Therefore, we must be
good sports and take the fate or karma of
that country and do ail we can to help. We
do not know the personal lives of ail those
whom we caii innocents, neither do we know
how much of such suffering they need to
teach them the lessons they did not learn
through their comparatively easy lives be-
fore the war. However, in any case, they
must share in the life of their chosen coun-
try; and they do not complain when they
understand the above reason.
You and I suffer because we have broken
some Law of God, either in this incarnation
or in a past incarnation. God never pun-
ishes us, but we punish ourselves by work-
ing against the Law. You see, when we do.
not obey the Law the easy way, and reap
the joys of living in harmony with it as we
should, then we must suffer in order to
55
learn our lessons. In other words, we reap
what we have sown, no matter how small
the wrong may seem at the time. There-
fore, when things seem to go wrong, try to
look back into your life to find out why.
You will probably remember some unkind-
ness, no matter how small, you did to some-
one. If the suffering is physical, you know
from a former lesson, that you have not
·obeyed the Laws of Health.
So, dear one, let us be fair and so blame
ourselves before we blame anyone else, and
then set about making things right, first,
within our own thoughts and then toward
the others whom we may have injured.
56
CHAPTER X
Giving
Sometimes you wonder whether it is right
to give to the poor or to those who beg.
Perhaps I can help you. · First of all, let
me tell you a great Law: "Give and it shall
be given unto you," and as ye give so shall
you receive. This Law is often turned
around in the minds of those who ask for
somethin~ without wishing to give in re-
turn. This means, in order to be able really
to receive and properly use what is given
to you, you must give something for it. This
may be money or service, but preferably
by some sacrifice. It has been my experi-
ence that the individuals to whom I gave
the most without receiving anything in re-
turn, turned out to be my enemies. Why?
My giving created in them a sense of obli-
gation which made them feel uncomfort-
able. The natural reaction was to turn
against the one who caused their discom-
fort. Do you see the psychology of it?
Why is giving necessary to receiving?
Because to give, you must open your hand
and your heart. Then when they are open,
they are ready to receive. A closed fist
57
cannot receive anything, neither can a
closed heart and mind. All right then, let
us, when we want to give, try to help others
to help them~elves, or help thern to carnJ
on a good wm·k for others. When someone
comes to the door to ask for something to
eat or for money, give him a job no matter
how small, so he can keep his self-respect,
and obey the Law of Giving.
Do not forget this point either, that even
when you teach someone how to care for
his health, if you do not require him to give
something or some service for that teach-
ing, he will feel that it is cheap and so will
not do as you say, and will go on suffering.
The higher the price, the greater the respect
and appreciation, and so the greater wish
to profit by it.
If the above sounds mercenary, please
consider that you are doing the receiver a
favor by requhing a return. Let me repeat
why: 1st, you help him to keep his self-
respect. 2nd, you make it possible for him
to profit by what you do for him or give
him. People follow their money or their
sacrifices. Try it on yourself and see the
truth of this.
58
CHAPTER XI
Love
No book of spiritual advice would be com-
plete without a few words about the great-
est power in the world, love. Nobody can
define love excepting to say, "God is Love."
Nobody can define God, for a finite (lim-
ited) mind cannot grasp an infinite God.
We can, however, give some of the char-
acteristics of love. Suppose we consult our
friend Paul of the New Testament. There
he says, "Love suffereth long and is kind;
love envieth not; love vaunteth not itself,
is not puffed up; doth not behave itself un-
seemly; seeketh not its own, is not pro-
voked, taketh not account of evil; rejoiceth
not in unrighteousness but rejoiceth with
the truth; beareth all things, believeth all
things, hopeth all things, endureth all
things. Love never faileth," etc. One is
tempted to think that there is not much
love in the world if these beautiful charac-
teristics are necessary to love. However, I
am sure that you can think of someone who
manifests such characteristics, one who is
patient and kind; one who has no envy or
boastfulness; does not try to get things
for himself or herself; does not make scenes
59
if someone else has her way; someone who
does not "fly off the handle" (become angry
easily); someone who does not gossip, and
does not look for evil in others; someone
who loves truth and right, endures trouble
patiently, believes the best of others; is
always cheerful and hopeful; someone who
is faithful and can always be relied upon.
There are a few such peo~le, and we want
to swell that number, don t we? Suppose
we stop right here and test ourselves
against all of the above characteristics of
love and see where we fall short. Then let
us go to work in earnest to cultivate those
characteristics in which we are lacking.
As we do, we shall be happier and make
more rapid progress on the Path. Remem-
ber that if Christ thinks, feels, speaks and
acts through us, then we shall have all the
characteristics of Love.
60
CHAPTER XII
Thanksgiving
Are you grateful for anything? If not,
your poor heart and mind are dried and
closed. In another Chapter we showed how
giving makes our hearts, minds and hands
open so they can receive. So it is with giv-
ing thanks that are sincere. You ask how
you can be thankful if you just aren't-
because you want so many things you do
not seem to be able to get. Well, I would
suggest this: 1st, make a list of all the things
you can think of that you have not made or
earned yourself. 2nd, add all the kindnesses
other people have done for you. 3rd, think
of the sunshine, the rain, the air you
breathe, the water you drink, the food you
get, the clothes you wear, your ability to
think, to see, to read, to taste, to smell, etc.,
etc. Send me the list of the number of
things you have found for which to be
grateful, and we shall see who can think of
the most.
While you are really thankful you can-
not be in need. Your attitude is cheerful,
and cheerfulness attracts. Your heart is
61
giving, and that means getting. You recall
our Law, As ye give so shall ye receive.
Now, in closing, let me remind you of just
a few important things: 1st, although we
may be healed through prayer, we will be
sick again if we do not obey God's Laws of
Health (See Chapter II) because we will b~
setting up the very causes which made us
sick the other time.
2nd, remember that before you can hope
to master other people and conditions in
life, you will have to learn to master you,r-
self-your animal self, which causes all the
trouble.
3rd, the cause of all suffering is the break-
ing of some Law of God, whether it be phy-
sical, mental or spiritual. Look within for
the reason.
4th, when things seem dark, remember
that the Light is t·eady to break through as
soon as you find within yourself what is
wrong with your thinking.
5th, remember that you cannot overcome
as long as your animal self rules you, so
turn always to the Christ and ask Him for
help to be strong, honest, clean, just, kind,
thoughtful and radiantly loving.
6th, it is not what you know, but what
you p1·actice that helps you to make prog-
ress.
62
Now let us together say this sincerely:
We do thank Thee, dear God, for the privi-
lege of learning through these pages the
true way to happiness and the true way to
progress on the Path of Attainment. Help
us, please, to be faithful to each part of this
teaching, for Thy name's sake, Amen.
63.
The
Universal Religious Fellowship
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S. M.D.
A non-sectarian spiritual mo\·ement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inc:lusi\·e spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter. Chris-
tian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings presented in this \·olume have interested
and helped you, send for a descriptive pamphlet of our
correspondence course.
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.
SISO Coaaeetlcuc A•e- Wubmscoa:n:=c.
••THE CURTISS BOOKS"
Tllele boob PreHnt the pblbophy of Christian l'aJ'ehaloir7
and Mntfdam In plain. ~pftbenalble tenna and applied to
the daiiJ' lifL Not mae tbeo17 and JMtaphJ'aleal apeeulatlon.
bat a ddnlte and c:omprehenaiYe ph&.oph,. of life aDd Soal-
lrt'Owth. teated throqh ,_n of uperlen~ wbleb lndudea a
rational aplanatfon of all forma of mn~Jam and Blbllw
Oc::c:ultlam. u well u the Yltal and COIDpla: problema of modena
life and all atteNieatb eondltJona.
There an perha&M 110 boob OD the mubt todaJ' wbl~ ao
faliiD the nftda of the awakened Soul who Ia Hekfq to lmow
and undentand bow to appiJ' the uniYeraal Ia- of the aplrltual
life under preHDt and '""''•" ....,.u t"011iitiou. While pbllo-
aopbleal and COIDP~benaiYe In their KOpe. theJ' alao anawer the
hearkiT for IOYe. Iicht and life.
.laat the boob to plaee In the banda of a friend who b out-
crowJq former llmltatloaa of thoulrht and olcl eoneeptlona.
Cbrlatlan In their ethlea. J'et non-HC:tarlan, eoamlc and unlnnal.
Send for our f..U,. Descrlptin Cataloc.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
5130 Connec:Ueat An. WashinKtoa. D. C.
A FEW OF
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
Four-Fold Health (Second Edition) • . . . $1.50
Contains the c:."t::ct routine to eliminate most chronie disorders. as
well as explicit instructions as to just whal to do i11 acute attaeks,
including ap~ndicitis. This may save the life of your child, your-
self or your family.
Tire Plrilosoplry of War (TIIird Edition) . • • $1.50
This is not a dry, :~cadcmie discussion of the theories or evea
the horrors of war, but a penetrating and illuminating revelation
of the hidden forces which :~rc at work bthi~td lht setllts of all wars.
It will give you the same understanding and comfort it gave the
thousands of readers of the former editions.
Tire Voice of Isis (Tirirtu11tlz Edition) . • $2.50
A veritable compendium of spiritual philosophy, occultism and
esoteric biblical interpretation. Not mere theory and metaphysical
speculation, but a dtfinitt pl1ilosophy ol lilt arsd Soul-1r0Utth.
"It is indeed an epoch-making volumc."-KalJNJila Maga::int,
IIIdia,
Wiry Arc We llcrcf . . • . • . • . . • $1.50
IVhl• should man appear here on earth when apparently he had
no choice in the matter? Why should he incarnate with parents
whose physical heredity and environment, good or bad, must be
accepted by him? What is the objtcl of and the rtasor~ for
physical existence anyway?
All these and many more fascinating questions about the funda-
mental problems of life arc clearly and satisfyingly answered in
simple language in this new volume.
The Key to the Universe (Sixth Edition,
Illustrated) . • • • • • • . • • • $2.50
The most comprehensive and authoritative book on the signifi-
cance and spiritual interpretation of numbers and symbols. Not a
dry mathematical treatise nor mere speculative theories. Itlustra-
tions and confirmations from nature at every turn. Numbers and
symbols from l to 10.
"Is both thorough and profound."-BaltitnOrt Amnican.
Realms of tire Living Dead (Sixth Edition) • • $2.50
This ,·olumc gh·es a clear, scientific. satisfying and comforting
explanation of all after-death conditions, dual personalities, psychic
research. etc.
Explains all methods of communication with the invisible, and
how to protect against undesirable influences.
A rational, scientific, all-inclusive philosophy; not a mediumistic
report.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
51stt'Onnrectiftlt-A't'e. WaahiaJtultt D:-C.
NnV ADDR£SS
P. 0. BOJC336, SANTA BARBARA, CALIF.
