{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__clymer___aeth_priesthood.pdf","mytitle":"Aeth Priesthood","mylang":"de"}
Tohe
JEth Priesthood
Initiation and Mastership Through
Occult Training
THE
ALthPRIESTHOOD
The Oldest Arcane Fraternity in the
World, Descended Direcdy from the
Initiatory Schools of Ancient Egypt
THE ARCANUM LODGE
A N D IMPERIAL MASTERSHIP DEGREE
The E th Priesthood Fully Instructs and Thoroughly
Trains Its Neophytes in the Divine Science of the
Soul and Its Powers, in the E th Mysteries, the
E th Drills, and, Finally, Inception Into
the Great Occult Arcanum Through
the Imperial Degree
1 Issued by
BEVERLY HALL FOUNDATION, INC.
QUAKERTOWN, PA.
Copyrighted 1941
BV PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY
Quakertown. Pennsylvania
By Authority of the
T H E j€ T H P R I E S T H O O D
with the privilege of ordination if he so desires.
Any student reaching the heights of the y£th is no longer a
mere man. He has truly become a servant of the Most High,
a Son of God, an Initiate and a Master who has achieved Soul
Immortality while still in a human body.
In his climb to the top (symbolically climbing a moun­
tain) , he has discarded and completely rid himself of all the
carnal passions and animal desires which rule the mass of
mankind. He no longer experiences the feelings of hate, envy,
jealousy, fear and the other ignoble members of the negative
family, these having been transmuted into their opposites of
Love, compassion, good will, kindliness, strength and Mas­
tership over himself as well as his environments.
Having become one with the Father, he is constantly in
contact with all the Wisdom and power that ever existed and
is privileged to attract to himself all that is necessary for the
welfare of himself and his family.
Glorious as is this achievement, it is not for weaklings. As
in everything else, in the Occult success must be earned; must
be won; must be fought for and, like climbing a physical
mountain, it requires patience, stick-to-it-ness, a determina­
tion and Will power that is not satisfied with anything short
of complete success in reaching the utmost heights of the
Occult in all its departments.
Yet even those who do not reach the heights are well repaid
for every effort made, as every step forward on the path,
every victory won over the selfish self, is that much gained,
not only for the present, but for all eternity.
6
THE JE TH PRIESTHOOD
P
a s c a l B e v e r l y R a n d o l p h , Supreme Grand Master of
the Rosy Cross in all its ramifications, and Hierarch of
Imperial Eulis, made this statement in his text book Eulis:
"The Rosicrucian system is and never was other than a
Door to the Ineffable Grand Temple of Imperial Eulis. It is
the trial chamber wherein men are tested for their fitness for
loftier things. And even Eulis, itself, is a triplicate of body,
mind and Soul. There are some in the outer, a lesser num­
ber in the inner crypts."
Towering above both the Rosy Cross, whatever its nomen­
clature or designation, and likewise above Imperial Eulis,
glorious as these are, there is shadowed against the limitless
sky, the .Eth Priesthood, with its centralized hierarchical
authority, and its Spiritual Priesthood; a Priesthood since
time immemorial selected from its most faithful Initiates.
Herein are trained those Acolytes who become the Initiates of
the Exalted Third, and into whose keeping are confided the
Greater Mysteries, as also those manuscripts whose contents
are little dreamed of by the profane. Here only those may
enter who are willing to lay aside self-conceit, self-opinion,
self-righteousness, self-judgment, biased criticism and other
vices of smallness; those ready to help all and condemn none.
To those unversed in Occult terminology, this Manifesto
of 1936 issued to seekers of the Higher Path, admittedly reads
somewhat like the jargon of the Alchemists of the Middle
Ages. It is regrettable that this cannot be avoided. Those
whose minds are open to truth and whose hearts are awakened
to spiritual knowledge will be able to read and understand. It
7
T H E JE T H P R I E S T H O O D
is for the ones truly seeking that this outline of the Higher
Occult Arcanum is unveiled.
A M Y S T I C A L T R E A T I S E F O R S E E K E R S
A F T E R O C C U L T ( H I D D E N ) K N O W L E D G E
The systems of Philosophy herein described have nothing in
common with the misnamed practices often erroneously desig­
nated occultism and mysticism—but actually systems of
planned chicanery, fortune-telling and various cults foreign to
genuine religion, philosophy and the true Science of the Soul.
Too often these unsound and useless systems lead the unthink­
ing, ignorant, and those of child-like faith, away from the use­
ful and productive teachings and practices, thus bringing re­
proach upon both good and bad alike. True Occultism is
productive of good only, and its benefits may be shared by all
mankind.
In this Monograph we touch only on that which belongs to
legitimate occultism; that which pertains to the Soul and the
powers and forces of the Soul, conveying so far as we may, in­
formation of that authentic Occult Fraternity which has ex­
isted in one form or another since the very dawn of history.
This Fraternity is based upon the fundamental truth that
man, aside from his physical and mental self, is possessed of
another being, by us termed the Soul; which when developed,
awakened and Illuminated, is far greater in its capabilities and
potentialities than either body or mind, considered separately
or together.
We do not plead with any to believe in or "have faith” in
the statements that follow. We appeal neither to skeptic, ma­
terialist nor scientist. Our approach is only to those who are
deeply interested in the truth and eager to learn for themselves.
Such are sincerely desirous to put themselves in touch with the
8
T H E ^E T H P R I E S T H O O D
more sublime things of life and already believe in the forces
of the Soul and in the possibility of the Immortality of man.
When we study the history of past ages, when we consider
Egypt and her advanced civilization,1we find that man's con­
structive powers, that art and culture and the love of the beau­
tiful were at their highest in that age during which the Occult
Priesthood was at its height of power, when no man could be­
come King unless he had first become an Initiate, having been
thoroughly taught and trained by the Priesthood. When
Egypt was governed by its Initiate-Kings, science, art, culture,
refinement were at their zenith. The downfall of Egypt set
in under the rule of men who had usurped the place of the
Priesthood and the Initiate-Kings.
The modern historian is puzzled by the marvelous order and
government which marked, almost immediately, the boundary
between the end of the pre-historic, semi-barbaric state of
Egypt and the beginning of the First Dynasty. There was a
spread of power and a manifestation of growth in the arts
which are incomprehensible when viewed from the standpoint
of natural human evolution. Apparently a new type of man
or being had come to the throne of each of the then existing
kingdoms. The profusion of data now available from existing
monuments and other remains of the succeeding empires refer
to those early rulers as divinities. This new and brilliant era
began with the coming of the Initiate-Kings who were to reign
so gloriously for thousands of years.
The greatness of that old civilization is most impressively
told by such titanic monuments as the pyramid Cheops and
■No consideration is here given to the culture of ancient Atlantis, whose \
existence is not yet generally admitted by scientists, nor to the mighty civili­
zation of the Mayas and Aztecs, some of whose pyramids we now know to
have been three times as large as those of Egypt, and whose culture will
soon be revealed to have been greater than any existing today and to ante­
date any yet known to history and archaeology.
9
T H E JE T H P R I E S T H O O D
the Sphinx, built when the rest of mankind had not yet
emerged from barbarism. The art of those ancient builders is
not perfectly apprehended today save by the very few. Even
centuries later, when the great temples of Ammon and Kar-
nak were built, there was nothing comparable to these archi­
tectural achievements in the rest of the world. Among the
works of art preserved in museums are jewels in marvelously
perfect settings, vessels carved with exquisite skill from lapis
lazuli, obsidian and porphyry. Their intaglio work presents
a perfection of detail scarcely attainable by our most gifted
craftsmen working with the finest of modern tools, and the
delicate tracery of some of their gold work shows a beauty
and skill yet to be surpassed. To duplicate their linen of micro­
scopically fine texture would tax the genius of modern machine
invention. Their malleable glass and the permanent and bril­
liant coloring of their paintings are still the enigmas of modern
science.2
To achieve an essentially unmilitary civilization which
should prosper for thousands of years indicates a wisdom of
government and a type of statesmanship growing out of a
complete understanding of and compliance with Divine Law.
The pictures of cruelty and slavery drawn by historians writing
of this period do not pertain to the entire civilization but to
that period which came after decadence had set in.3
2 It is now becoming apparent that the Mayas and the Aztecs first had a
history, a civilization, a science and arts and a Priesthood identical in
almost every particular with that of Egypt, and the only reasonable con­
clusion is that the people who established Egypt were of the same family
as those who had migrated from the Americas to Egypt. Gold, the baleful
metal which has made modem man monumentally cruel toward his fellows
and is our modem cause of wars, exploitation and every form of human
misery, was used by these ancient peoples solely for decorative purposes—
an offering to the gods, and food was the standard of value.
8We have our ultra-modem example in the 1931-32 "depression,”
also by the almost universal abrogation of promises, obligations and treat­
ies by Dictators and world leaders. We term ourselves more civilized than
10
T H E z E T H P R I E S T H O O D
Late in the Middle Empire, Amenophis III sounded the
knell of Egypt when he departed from the gods of his fathers,
and although Egypt was yet to achieve its greatest glory in the
period of the New Empire under the sagacious leadership of
Rameses I, II and III, it had become military. The blood of its
kings was no longer pure, and the Priesthood, forced to take
an increasing part in the direction of affairs, at last found them­
selves unable to cope with the problems growing out of such
a complex government, imbued as it was increasingly with
selfish interests. Invasion following invasion broke the soli­
darity of the Empire and at last led to the breaking up of the
old civilization under Cambyses and the driving of the Priest­
hood and their schools into seclusion.
That was the great period in history because the principles of
government were more perfect than those of our civilization of
today. In this mechanical age, surrounded as we are by every
manner of convenience and comfort, we are inclined to look
upon those early days as being dreary, cold and hard. Yet life
in Egypt was not pre-eminently of this character. The people
as a whole enjoyed a degree of comfort and peace of mind un­
known to us who live in a constant struggle to be prepared to
meet the enemy both within and without our gates. Had the
Egyptian march of progress not been arrested, we should not
date the beginning of knowledge and accomplishment from the
Renaissance. The long stretch of three thousand years from
the death of Rameses III to the discovery of the New World
would have witnessed such wonders as man now must wait
perhaps for another two thousand years to witness.
any nation that has ever existed. We blatantly tell the world that we are
the only truly Christian, that is to say Christ-like, people on earth, yet in
the entire history of the world no people have been as refinedly cruel and as
subtly and designedly inconsiderate of the dire needs of others.
11
T H E £ T H P R I E S T H O O D
The Occult Law of Action and Reaction
The prosperity and high culture of Ancient Egypt was based
on an understanding of overruling Law, a knowledge which
has been practically lost in subsequent statesmanship. Under
the rule of the Initiate Kings, the statesman who proved false
to his trust or betrayed his constituents was punished by death.
Similarly, the Priesthood and the Schools for training dealt
with the false Neophyte who dared in any manner to betray
a trust. The Priests, however, did not themselves mete out this
punishment. By the Occult Law, the Neophyte, under the
reaction of the Law, meted out his own punishment. When,
during his course of training in the Halls of Mystery, a Neo­
phyte offered up certain Invocations which are essential in the
attainment of Mastership, he set in motion distinctive Occult
forces at once terrible and sublime, and these reacted upon him­
self, either for good or ill, according to his innate nature and
desires. Every Neophyte was carefully instructed in this ab­
solute Law when he entered the Temple as an Acolyte, and if
he proved faithless, thus sealing his own doom, he could blame
none but himself.
Today, in the August Fraternities, certain instructions are
given and Sacred Mantrams are taught the Neophyte which, if
sincerely followed and obeyed, ultimately will lead him to
Initiation, Soul Illumination and Immortalization. Con­
versely, if the Neophyte proves unworthy, the Occult forces
react upon him. This cannot be otherwise, as the Law is action
with corresponding reaction. This Law operates in all the ac­
tivities of life, but because of ignorance or insufficient instruc­
tion very few recognize this dual activity of the Law as a fact.
The solemn obligation taken by the Neophyte when a de­
gree is conferred upon him after he has found the Light, should
forever hold that brother faithful to his sacred vows. These
vows do not interfere with his liberty, or his duties as a man
12
T H E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
and a citizen, but make him one with the supreme Fraternity,
and it should ever be a holy joy to him to maintain his word
sacred and inviolate. No one who enters the Temple and takes
the vow will prove unworthy unless there is within his Soul
some weakness which prevents him from being a man in the
true meaning of the word. God himself said through his
Prophet Ezekiel, “The Soul that sinneth, it shall die.” This,
then, is the Law; and is not the Law, when understood and
deliberately set aside, sufficient of itself to mete out full and
just punishment— reaction. Only one who in his own inner
nature is unjust, unfaithful and treacherous will claim that
the operation of the Law is unjust.
It has happened more than once that Neophytes, though
fully instructed in the Law and its meaning, yet failed to com­
prehend that meaning. After having taken the sacred vow,
given most confidential instructions and entrusted with private
books and manuscripts with which, by their obligation, they
were never to part except by returning them to the Fraternity,
they broke their word, betrayed the trust confided in them.
This breach may have arisen from a difference of opinion be­
tween the Neophyte and his instructor, the former falling into
the error of thinking that the Law applies to everyone but him­
self. In this matter of difference of opinion it is to be clearly
understood that the Fraternity and its teachers can obey only
the Hierarchies of the great Invisible Brotherhoods; their al­
legiance is not given to any man nor to any member, irrespective
of how “great” or successful that individual may be in the
world of material affairs.
Turning from Egypt to Greece, we come to another great
period of perfection in the arts and the development of man,
who, physically, mentally and socially, and in his love for the
beautiful, very nearly reached to the status of the gods. When
selfish interests began to usurp the love of the beautiful, then
only did Greece face toward her fall. Both Egypt and Greece,
13
T H E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
while the true Priesthood held full sway, reached the zenith of
an all-around and complete development. With the fall of
the Priesthood came the general deterioration of the people and
of the nation. The reign of the Egyptian Initiate-Priests was
not selfish. They instructed the Kings in the wisdom of the Law
and the application of that Law brought in its wake prosperity,
greatness, general well-being and happiness. The Neophytes
of this Priesthood were taught how to “know themselves,”
and to rule through knowledge, not by political power or dic­
tatorial usurpation of the rights of others. They did not follow
dogma as did later religious systems. They did not bend the
masses of the people to their Will by the force of speculative
opinion. The intolerance and bondage of free thought were
left to later systems heralding the decadent outcroppings of
ignorance—darkness.
This mighty Fraternity of Initiates has continued in exist­
ence throughout the ages. The Egyptian Priesthood was driven
into exile by Cambyses, but it maintained its life and even in­
stilled its Occult wisdom into the highest priesthood of the
Persian conquerors. This wisdom had already permeated
Grecian religion and thought. It inspired and led the Semitic
tribes on their return to the Promised Land. It filtered through
into the Roman civilization, but was soon corrupted. It was
the sole basis of the early Christie religion in its Gnostic form,
and its extinguishment marked the beginning of the Dark Ages.
More than twelve hundred years after Cambyses swept through
Egypt, another conquering horde crying, "Receive ye Allah
or die,” swarmed through the country. Here also the religion
of Islam received its mystic baptism and preserved the ancient
order intact through the darkness of medieval civilization,
passing it on in various guises until it became the very warp
and woof of the Renaissance, from which period it is not diffi­
cult to trace its course.
Amid all the orders, cults and beliefs of today and of all
14
I T H E z E T H P R I E S T H O O D
past time stands this solitary, mighty Brotherhood, ever draw­
ing to itself those who are hungry to know the TRUTH, to be­
come one with it and ever ready to train such, if they so will,
to become teachers and healers of mankind, to instruct them in
the Divine Law that shall make them free from fear and from
that selfishness which ends in destruction.
Those races that have not been strongly imbued with a re­
ligious motive have wholly disappeared or been absorbed.
The kingdom of Genghis Khan is an example. Modern, up-
to-date Communism, Fascism and Naziism are other examples
of approaching devastation and the possible total destruction
of races and peoples as surely as the passing of Genghis Khan
and his hordes. Historical records left by races and kingdoms
of which there is yet more or less permanent evidence reveal the
fact that these peoples were taught by an Occult Priesthood
at the time of their supreme power. From the time of Egypt
to that of Persia, Greece, Babylon, Assyria, Rome and Islam
down to our own period, each people when living at its best,
had a pure and beautiful concept of religion. They had raised
themselves far above others by their intellectual stamina and
at a certain high stage of their development had implanted in
their ideals of government the seed of an advanced knowledge
which can never vanish altogether from history, for it is
living seed and ever springs up in a fresh posterity where it
bears fruit to suit the order and need of the new day.
There are signs of this fruitage in our own land, which, per­
haps, was once a part of the same continent which included
Egypt, or at least the land of the Mayas and Aztecs. The
idealism of our people is a fertile soil in which the ancient
teachings may thrive, and the harvest may well be another
glorious civilization in which altruism shall prevail and in
which man shall, because of true development, become a better
and happier being.
15
T H E y£T H P R I E S T H O O D
Occultism Still a Sealed Book for the Masses of Mankind
An unknown author has written: “When the human spirit
possessed no higher wisdom than the earthly and that which
reason and the light of nature gave it, nature was a sealed book
—a Babel. Man had wholly fallen from his empires; his sense
and language were confused; no consciousness of the real object
of life remained to him, nor of the true use of means. Man was
blind and deaf and lame as regards the kingdom of nature
and beyond.’’
Such is the present state of mankind in general. He knows
practically nothing of Higher Occultism, less of the Soul and
but a fraction of that wisdom which pertains to the body.
The book of nature is indeed a sealed book to him. Jacob
Boehme, the mystic, wrote of another such age:
“The Soul of old Adam lusted after the lordship of the
outer rule, and his will was sundered from the unity of God
and carried away in the dominion of this world so that this
was converted into a monstrosity. The true spirit withered,
the light of God was extinguished and the divine idea became
benumbed and dead to him. To this spirit came Jesus; and
as he assumed human nature to restore it, he brought back
again the light into the darkness. In this light stands the Soul
again in original fatherland, as in her first days, when the spirit
of God wrought in her. She stands there in vision and may
inquire into all things; and she understands the language of
nature and works with her strength. In delusion— that of
Adam (the earth man)— there is no perfection; the spirit of
God in His Son (the Christos) must be the guide, otherwise he
stands in an outward mystery, as in the outward heaven of the
stars, but not in the Divine'Magic School, which consists only
in a simple, childlike spirit. The outward guide— theoretic rea­
son— works only in a glass, but the inner sense, directed of
God, shines into the Soul; and, therefore, the choice stands with
16
T H E ^E T H P R I E S T H O O D
God; He who comprehends the heavenly school will become
a Magus—a creator out of self-knowledge— without weari­
ness running; and even if he must greatly exert himself, yet
is he penetrated by God and will be impelled by the Holy
Spirit.”
We of the .Eth Fraternity hold this as a sacred truth; it is to
this building of an Illuminated Soul, with all its native strength
and power, that we would help those who are sincerely in­
terested.
The E th power in man can be brought into activity only
through a series of drills, exercises, modes of living and, in con­
junction with all else, the use of Divine Mantrams. These
latter the Neophyte uses as Sacred prayers. They are for the
purpose of entering into communication with the Hierarchies,
the E th forces or divine Fires and the E th world or sphere.
The development of the body, mind and Soul is essential be­
cause the cleaner and more vital the instrument, the more sure
the reception of power.
The ancient philosophers correctly taught that the air, like
all things in nature, is dual. It is positive and negative, male
and female, acting and reacting, constructive and destructive.
The knowledge of how to breathe correctly and with a pur­
pose enables man to draw into himself and retain the E th
fires which give him the power to accomplish the seemingly
impossible on the occult and spiritual planes.
The air that man breathes is always of diverse nature. It
takes upon itself the earth elements and makes of man a carnal,
lustful, even at times a degraded being, wholly immoral. Con­
trariwise, it may take on the elements of the Heavenly Fires
and confer upon man power, strength, spirituality and Immor­
tality. It is the privilege of the Neophyte to choose the method
he would apply and to draw from the air forces accordingly.
The Initiate-Priests of old fully understood the secret that is
17
T H E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
contained in the air and the power in the A5th fires and knew
how, by certain methods of breathing, to draw these forces
from the air and store them in a reservoir within for future use.
Symbolic Words With a World of Truth
One who understood the mystery, but whose name is un­
known to us, wrote:
"The air has its positive and negative, its male and female.
It takes up into itself all earthly elements, develops in eternal
changes all power in itself and begets innumerable children in
undiminished youth and beauty. Junto is the sister and spouse
of Jupiter. Amongst the natural philosophers, Juno means
the lower atmosphere in which the clouds float and the rainbow
appears. She is the eldest daughter of Kronos and sister of
Zeus, the Olympic god. Oceanus and Tethys brought her up
when the all-powerful Zeus thrust Kronos under the earth;
that is, the vapor, ascending from the sea, and the waters mix
themselves in the lower atmosphere. According to Ovid, Hera
was swallowed up by her father with the rest of his children
and again vomited forth. The eagle soaring to the sun is the
bird of Jupiter, while the earthly, color-reflecting peacock is
the attendant of Juno.
"Vulcan, a son of Jupiter, received the lordship of the sub-
terrane. Like Fire, which at first appears as a feeble spark,
was Vulcan at birth. He was weak, ugly, ailing, slow and limp­
ing, but when grown up and requiring strength, possessed of
a sinewy neck and strong chest. He built a house for himself
which was imperishable, and therein he had his workshop with
his anvil and his bellows, which without hands worked at his
command. The Cyclops, the remnant of the original powers
of nature, children of Urania and Gaea, forged for Zeus light­
nings and thunderbolts, dwelling in the volcanic caves. Vul­
can appears amongst Pelasic gods, the Samothracian Cabiri, as
18
T H E ^E T H P R I E S T H O O D
\
the symbol of electric (directable but unknown) power, and
out of the common workshop of Hephaestos and Athene is
Prometheus said to have taken the life-giving power.”
This that is said concerning Vulcan gives figuratively the
mystery of creation and that of the Soul, which, low born and
weak, gradually gains strength until it solves the mystery of
the Fires of JEth and attains Youth and Immortality.
Even if you proceed no farther in your search for the solu­
tion of the mystery of life, it will pay you to study time and
again this which we have told you of the air. Gradually you
will gain an idea of the Mystery of Breath and perceive that it
contains two forces: One that is earthly, giving life to the body,
the force which all animals use; the other heavenly, divine,
giving to those who have learned how to draw it into them­
selves health, strength, power and finally Immortality.
In the preliminary training of the JEth School, covering
approximately one year of study and development, with the
use of the Sacred Mantrams, the Mystery of the Breath is
taught to the Neophyte. He also is given certain information
concerning the ^Eth World, that sphere wherein dwells the
power of health, strength, youth, Immortality. He is taught
how to come into contact with and how to inhale this Aith
Fire, the Life-giving force which all may use for their benefit.
There is a fundamental philosophy taught by the Aith
Priesthood. No system possibly could exist throughout the
ages without a philosophy fundamentally sound, and time has
shown that, the tenets of the JEth School are based on a sound
foundation as proven time and again by experience.
Man does not attain Immortality after or upon passing to
the Beyond. This state must be attained while living the
earth life, and for this very purpose was the earth life offered
to him as a school, a testing ground, as it were, where his fit­
ness for the greater life was to be established. Similarly with
19
T H E E T H P R I E S T H O O D
the E th world or Sphere, its forces and benefits. Man must
learn to contact it and how to draw therefrom now as from a
storehouse filled with good things, and not some time after
the grim reaper has transported him to an unknown beyond.
It must not be thought for a moment that only the Mys­
tery of Breath is taught the Neophyte in these instructions.
Such teaching is but a part of the Great Work. Correct breath­
ing, without the use of the Sacred Mantrams and an applica­
tion of them in the process of training, would accomplish little
more than to strengthen the body and mind. It is by means
of a correct system of living, systematic breathing and the Holy
Invocations that man finally contacts and is able to draw to
himself these E th fires.
The Mystery of the AEth
The purely physical and mental ages have passed and man
has entered upon the final and highest stage of earth life. This
is the Monistic— complete— or Soul Age; the Age wherein
Illumination will become more general. It remains to be seen
whether man will accept the Work belonging peculiarly to this
Age and thus attain Immortality or whether, as in past ages,
he will pay little or no heed to the opportunities offered him, so
that this civilization also will sink into the limbo of forgotten
things. The Brotherhood feels that mankind generally is rap­
idly awakening, will willingly grasp the offered opportunity
and thus come into the power to achieve not only happiness
but conscious Immortalization.
The E th force is the greatest power in the universe, the
highest and most sublime power that can be known to man.
Magnetism and electricity are still mysteries, though we have
learned how to employ them as servants to relieve us of much
physical effort. But these, powerful and almost universally
applicable as they are, are but the material side or aspect of the
.Eth fires, which, though vastly different from either electricity
20
T H E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
or magnetism, nevertheless may be made of practical use, both
spiritually and materially. The Neophyte, through obedience
to the instructions of the yEth School, is enabled to draw these
fiery forces to himself, make them a part of himself and to see
them as a fire, directing them intelligently as he would any
other dynamic energy.
Very little has been known of the life forces, and in late
years not many discoveries have been made that offer us light on
the subject. Fundamentally, all that now is known, and much
more, was known to many of the ancient philosophers, espe­
cially the Initiates. Many of the life processes were made use of
by them, although the understanding of these is lost to the
materialists of the present day.
God gave man the opportunity to develop and to receive
certain powers. At the same time, under special conditions.
He gave him the right to gain other, greater and more spiritual
forces for his personal use. He gave man life and likewise power
to draw to himself “life more abundantly.” If he fails to make
the best use of his opportunities and remains ignorant of the
Laws which constantly operate for his benefit, then he alone
is responsible.
The JEth School teaches that a subtle JEth fire underlies
all life forces. Students know from centuries of experience that,
through a carefully outlined system of training and living, the
body may be made capable of drawing in much more of the
/Eth Forces than is usual and to store up this yEth fire, so as
to have it at command for whatever purpose and whenever
desired.
The Life Principle, which is in fact the Spirit of God, never
ceases to exist and never becomes less so long as there is ani­
mate life. If man becomes ill and dies, it is for the reason that
he was not familiar with the modus operandi of drawing into
himself sufficient of the life forces for all purposes or that he
21
T H E E T H P R I E S T H O O D
has become careless; has failed to take advantage of the abund­
ance of life constantly surrounding him and is paying the nat­
ural penalty for his own shortcoming.
It is utterly impossible for the evil man to make use of this
power since he is not capable of contacting the Hierarchic cen­
ters so long as his desires are of a non-constructive nature and
his purposes not for the good of himself and others. But who­
ever with good intent enters into the Great Work will have not
only more of life, but more of goodness also, and with this
attainment will come the Immortalization of the Soul.
The E th is a force or fire in nature emanating from the
E th world. The existence of the E th sphere near the sun and
the wonderful potency of its emanations was known and used
by the Egyptian Priesthood centuries ago. Methods for the use
of these forces were sacredly guarded by the Priests in the Tem-
ples and taught only to those who had been carefully and
thoroughly prepared. Only such applicants as were qualified
by genuine nobility and purity of purpose were admitted to the
Inner Court in which the E th philosophy was explained. The
knowledge of these governing Laws which the ancients taught
was handed down from the highest Egyptian Initiates to other
Initiates, preserved in their original form, and these instructions
are offered you under the auspices of the E th Priesthood.
The E th is a force which may be used accurately and in­
telligently in the healing of others, healing of the self, and in
furthering laudable interests in any endeavor which may be
near and dear to the heart of man, providing such work has
nothing to do with the destruction of life or the satisfying of
hate, malice or revenge. It is an energy that may be applied to
the practical needs of life in all its varied departments. It was
this E th fire which the Essenian Master understood and so
adeptly employed in his work as teacher and healer.
It must be emphasized that these teachings do not alone
22
T H E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
give a sound philosophy, but that they offer practical instruc­
tions for use which any sincere Acolyte is able to follow. Their
aim is deeper than merely to offer facts and to impart knowl­
edge. This course of instruction and training differs from other
systems in that it has for its distinctive purpose the develop­
ment of greater power within the person of the Neophyte—
the arousing of forces which can be used not only in healing the
ills of others, in self-healing, in drawing into oneself health,
strength and youthful vitality, but also for every other known
purpose of reconstruction.
The vEth philosophy is founded on the principle that physi­
cal health, strength and vitality are of fundamental importance
to everyone and in every endeavor; consequently, detailed in­
structions are given as to diet, breathing, exercise, thought con­
trol and other requisites of physical health, so that an all-
around development of the entire man may result and be the
foundation on which to build the new spiritual structure— the
new man.
The /Eth Forces Pregnant with Power
Dr. P. B. Randolph, a master-teacher of this system, wrote:
"Some people there be in this section of the ‘civilized area’
of the earth who can not imagine anything of magic power or
magnetic ability in the human Soul, either latent or active, nor
indeed any other superior power or energies at all, than such
as find their field of use in heaping up wealth through the dia­
bolic magic of rascality on change, in trade and elsewhere, or
in seeking to gratify tastes brutal at their bases and lusts foul
enough to shame Satan.”
This statement, written more than eighty years ago, is as
true today as it was then. The information concerning the
JEth Priesthood and its activities is not for such as believe in
this type of magic, but only for those who feel that there are
23
T H E y ETH P R I E S T H O O D
more things in this world than the material can know and
understand and who, through experiences of one kind or an­
other, have found that there are hidden potencies and energies
in the human Soul so great as to be almost unbelievable.
Increasing the Life Forces is one of the most important and
basic teachings of the Fraternity, concerns the opening up and
filling of the reservoir of life within man. This was the dream
of the old philosophers and Initiates, and many of them did
actually find the secret of the prolongation of life, as is indi­
cated by the fact that they lived far beyond the allotted span of
life. Others who started out in youth so weak and disease-
ridden as to make hope of length of life seemingly impossible
gradually gained health and strength and lived to a grand old
age, filling their days with noble accomplishment. This was
because they had mastered the secret of drawing into themselves
the JEth fires or dynamic forces or energies from the JEth
spheres and had learned how to put themselves in touch with
the JEth Hierarchies of these spheres.
Specific Energies to Help Man
When these dynamic life forces or energies are sufficiently
under control so that the student is assured of taking in more
of them than he is consuming, thus making health and long life
certain for himself, the next important step is to gain such
knowledge as will enable him to apply these energies toward
specific constructive purposes, drawing to himself sufficient of
these forces to insure success in the activities in which he is
engaged. This Great Work is possible only as man is fully
conversant with the secrets of the Sacred Breath and possesses
and uses the Divine Mantrams or Invocations by which he may
contact the Hierarchies of the /Eth spaces.
In all ages there have been persons who seem to be a contra­
diction within themselves. They seek or desire one thing, but
are attuned, as it were, to another. Thus a dual nature is ever
24
T H E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
in conflict with itself. This constant internal fight forever bars
them from the realms of peace, happiness and contentment.
But, this conflict silenced, the dual nature harmonized, they
quickly find a haven of strength, peace, happiness and spiritual
insight within themselves. This change in the warring nature
can be brought about only through the process of transmuta­
tion; by changing the hostile portion of the dual nature and
harmonizing it with the spiritual nature. This is the Alchem­
ists’ Secret. It is only through the AErial influences that this
transmutation is possible, and here again the help of the Hier­
archic forces is of paramount importance and may be had
through a proper understanding of the Law.
These Laws are thoroughly taught by the Fraternity.
Through a full comprehension of them countless numbers of
people who are now failures may become completely success­
ful—successful not alone in material affairs, but in spiritual
as well. Success, to be real and lasting, must be threefold:
Physical, material and spiritual.
The love nature of man is almost universally weak and de­
graded. Life, as it has been lived for the past many centuries,
has lowered our ideals, in many cases actually destroying them,
and this has had the tendency to destroy the love nature
within us.
The true love nature, often called the God nature, because
it is creative, is the basis, the actual foundation, of all true and
lasting power. The /£th Priesthood has always recognized
this fact and teaches as fundamental knowledge that to develop
this spiritual nature is to bring about a potentiality of the Will
not otherwise possible.
Many of our teachers have taught: “Where dwells Love,
there also dwells God.” This truism is a fundamental tenet
with the Fraternity,: and centuries Of experience in teaching
and training Neophytes have proven its absolute truth.
25
T H E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
Attracting the Help of the Spiritual Hierarchies
One of the greatest desires of the old teachers, and one which
they made Special effort to realize as quickly as possible, was,
to use their own words, "to have mental dalliance with the
Powers of the Spaces."
Up to the present moment, mankind generally has been made
familiar only with the powers and forces latent in the mind
when properly developed, but is still wholly ignorant of the
immensity and awfulness of the potential power residing in his
Soul when once awakened and brought into consciousness
and through this consciousness enabled to come into touch
with the aerial or JEth spaces.
These Powers of the Spaces the >Tth Fraternity terms the
Hierarchies. Not alone are these mental, but they embrace all
the forces of nature in every department of life and its activity.
The cultivation of the Will has been written upon widely,
but few have been enabled to teach the real secret of the Power
of the Will.
The JEth Fraternity, having at its command the teachings
of the old and new Masters, is aware that nearly all which has
been taught publicly is not even a beginning compared to that
which is known to the Fraternity. The Fraternity does not
deal with theory, but offers the Neophyte the actual practices,
degree after degree, until he has learned the three mighty powers
held as sacred by all Initiates of the Fraternity, called Volantia,
Decretism and Posism.
Continued and faithful practice until the Neophyte has mas­
tered the different degrees or stages of the power and has gained
not only the knowledge of how, but the ability to do, is part
of the Great Work.
There resides a power within man which, when fully de­
veloped and understood, may be used in changing certain sub-
26
T H E T sT H P R I E S T H O O D
stances. These substances, being agents, will retain that specific
power and, when in contact with the person who is either nega­
tive or receptive, will transfer these influences and strengthen
him. This power has been employed by the old Priesthood,
even that of the Roman Church, but it has been practically lost s'
due to ignorance, non-use or abuse.
This use of the .Eth forces has been one of the principles
possessed by the E th Fraternity since its foundation long
before the Egyptian Empire was at the height of its glory. The
principle of developing and using the E th force by means of
properly charged substances was employed by Pythagoras,
Paracelsus and Von Helmont. It was also used, though in an
inferior form, by Mesmer, and it was through its influence
that he was able to make wonderful and almost unbelievable
cures. This method of charging substances is of great value
in relieving suffering, but can be employed for other purposes,
such as saving weak and erring ones from vice and crime. Its
application is possible in many directions.
JEth Practices in Soul Development
The higher culture includes the whole man— the three-fold
being first, then the four-fold man, as the complete man.
No man can be truly man whose affectional nature is either
imperfectly developed or cold. It is the love nature, the Great
Center, whence flow the Magnetic Waves which constitute
what is known as magnetic attraction. Unless one has de­
veloped a source from which may flow these magnetic waves,
success in no department of his nature can be considered perfect.
Unless this affectional being, this love nature is developed, nor­
mal, natural manhood is not possible.
The more fully this love nature is developed, the more com­
pletely and fully will it be possible for the Great Center to
radiate the magnetic attractive waves which insure success.
27
T H E ^ETH P R I E S T H O O D
What is still more certain and of even greater importance to
the inner student is the fact that, as this Great Center, this love
nature, is developed, man becomes more truly what he was
supposed to be when created by God.
If the affectional nature is developed at the expense of the
physical or Soul natures, there will be conflict and weakness;
and man, fully such as regards his love nature, will be weak
morally, because the physical and Soul being will not have the
strength to resist the abnormal desires of the affectional nature.
Consequently, the affectional nature will overbalance his other
natures, and the result will be acts which are undesirable and
to his detriment. This is why the JEth Fraternity so strongly
insists on a balanced, three-fold development and follows the
system of training taught and practiced by the Ancient Initiates
which has proved so successful.
Man Can Become as "One With the Gods”
The most important of all practices, that which has already
been referred to, is the affiliation of the Will of man, called
the earth-will, with the Will-assembly of the Spaces and with
the Hierarchic Powers. Here the highest form of Will has its
beginning, and here is its ultimate goal. The human Will, well
trained and directed and affiliated with the Hierarchic Will-
assembly, is potent against all influences, and through this
affiliation man becomes as one of the gods. Nor are we profane
when we make this statement. It is the consensus of the opin­
ions of all Initiates in all times. When Jesus, the Essenian Mas­
ter, was accused of blasphemy in this connection, it is recorded
that He said to His accusers, "Is it not written in your law, I
said, Ye are gods?” And the Psalmist quotes God Himself as
saying, "Ye are gods and all of you are children of the most
High.”
This training is not as difficult to him who truly Wills and
28
T H E ^E T H P R I E S T H O O D
is willing to TRY as one would at first suppose. To the weak­
ling or the person who is seeking power without working for
it, it is impossible. Nothing is denied to him who truly Wills.
It is the Law that those who are willing to learn, to obey, to
act and to live will come into the power of such a specific form
of living.
It is not to be understood that the Will alone has spaces on
the JEth Sphere, and that there are Hierarchic powers over Will
alone. On the contrary, just as there are Hierarchic Powers of
Will, so are there like powers of Divine Passion and of Will-
Love-Energy. There are Centers with their Hierarchic Powers
over every department of Life and activity and in every depart­
ment of Nature. He who is willing to learn may come into
touch with one or more of these Centers and their Hierarchic
Forces.
The Fraternity has consistently taught the possibility, as
well as the means and methods, of drawing forces and energies
from the four Great Centers. This is not altogether an Egyp­
tian practice; it was one of the great secrets of the Greek-Chal-
daic people and was known as drawing the verve from the Car­
dinal Centers of the great universe.
These Centers are concerned with the nature of man; that is,
with those centers which connect or direct the four great de­
partments of life. Only a working knowledge and the WILL
to do are required by the Neophyte in order to make practical
application of this ancient secret.
No man can attain to the state of an Initiate unless he is
first willing to develop positiveness of Soul. This may be
brought about through an almost purely mental practice, but,
the human reasoning mind is cold and unfeeling and does not
have the attractive power it would if positiveness of the Soul
were developed by means of love-energies.
The JEth Fraternity teaches both of these systems; but it
29
T H E HETH P R I E S T H O O D
believes that, as man’s true love nature is a part of the God na­
ture, it is far better to develop only the Soul potentialities,
including positiveness of the Soul, through the love-energies,
than it is to attempt the development of the Soul through
purely mental practices.
The Soul that has become positive, especially if this has
been achieved through the love-energies, is practically invinci­
ble. Moreover, it has become a great, powerful, sublime at­
tracting Center which is open only to the influences of what we
know as the good and constructive and is as certain to attract
these qualities as a magnet will attract steel.
It is accepted as a fact that the man who is only lukewarm
in his interests is not one who will accomplish great works.
But he who is intense in his desires and in his love nature and
who being thus intense, i. e., polarized, is willing and ready to
make any necessary sacrifice in order to achieve his desire, is the
one who will succeed. There is no power in heaven or on earth
that can resist the mighty Will of one who bespeaks the “I
Will,” and who firmly holds to that intense resolution, irre­
spective of what may befall and even willing that life itself
shall end rather than that he give up his efforts or desist in his
quest. The Essenian Master voiced this Law when He said of
such: ”. . . whosoever shall lose his life for My sake, the same
shall save it.” Though it may appear temporarily that one loses
everything and is rendered for a time lowest in the ranks of ex­
istence, at the moment he is so reduced, the Fates themselves,
if necessary, will turn and render him aid, and he will begin his
climb upwards and continue until he has attained the summit.
This is the Great Law: "Just as one is willing and mayhap has
sacrificed and suffered in order to succeed, so will he, in like
intensity, be able to live and enjoy. The intensity of suffering
and the willingness to give are merely the measure of his possi­
bilities and the capacity to succeed and enjoy.”
30
T H E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
It likewise follows that in most instances we can readily
judge the tree by its fruits. All the Hierarchies of the Spaces are
arrayed on the side of the man who has spoken the ‘‘I Will,”
who proves that he means what he says by the fact that he re­
fuses to give up, or to let go, though earth and heaven, men
and gods, seem to be combined against him and his efforts.
Nothing in earth or heaven that is worth while is ever
gained without making some sacrifice, unless, as sometimes
comes to pass due to the reaction of Karmic Law, one has pre­
viously earned his "reward.” The things we are able to buy,
because we have the ready money or other medium of ex­
change, never can bring us the satisfaction that do the things
for which we have had to save and suffer. We feel the value
of such things because they are part of our life, aye, in many
instances, bought with our blood.
Secrets of the Spaces
Despite all that has been said against clear-seeing or clair-
audience and the frauds that have been committed in this name,
there is such a faculty.
One of our teachers has thus defined some of the powers of
the Soul:
"To penetrate the secrets of the lower Spacial Worlds is
called Suvoyance.
"To penetrate the formidable Spheres of the middle Spaces
is known as Zorvoyance.
"To attain the road leading to the Ineffable Beyond is termed
JEthaevoyance."
It is this last which a true Initiate seeks to attain, and he will
be able to contact these Spaces when he becomes the master of
his inner inherent Soul forces by means of the exercises and
Sacred Mantrams.
31
T H E E T H P R I E S T H O O D
These instructions were the secret religion of the ancient
Initiates. They teach a system of specific Invocations. They
are at once powerful prayers of the most sublime nature and
direct appeals to the Hierarchic Powers of the special and Spacial
departments of the Universe.
Religion is not a form, it is a feeling of the Soul. So is all true
and lasting power. One follows the other as surely as night
follows day.
The greatest secret possessed by Paracelsus the great healer,
was the power of vitalizing foods, medicines, drinks, clothing
and other substances with a specific, dynamic influence which,
when coming into contact with the person for whom intended,
endowed that person with the life-forces or energies with which
the article was charged.
So great was this power of vitalization possessed by Para­
celsus that in many instances he instantly healed, with one
draught of medicine, diseases of long standing which had re­
sisted the efforts of all other physicians.
This has been termed the Grand Life Secret, because in many
instances it was the direct means of saving life. In other cases
it was the method employed for the prolongation of life.
Overcoming the Destructive Influences
In the present age when mankind has been taught and be­
lieves in the destructive power of other minds, it is well for him
to understand the laws which will help him to construct the
Electric Auric Ring, which, when thrown around one’s self
or another, is the means of returning any adverse or hostile in­
fluence or force to the sender.
The Soul that through training has become positive has
nothing of this kind to fear since its own positiveness is a pro­
tection in itself against all forces except the reaction upon itself
of evils of which it may have been guilty. Those who fear
32
T H E E T H P R I E S T H O O D
these adverse, evil and hostile forces have no such protection as
positive Souls possess. It is, therefore, highly necessary that
others should know how to protect these and help them to
become free from the fears which have taken root in their
minds. The projection of such a ring round about one’s self
or another is not a difficult matter, and it is a positive protec­
tion against all influences emanating from evil, vindictive or
revengeful minds.
The entire purpose of training and Initiation in the E th
School is to awaken and develop the Soul faculties. It is a
method of practice which, degree by degree, stage by stage, will
awaken the slumbering Soul, gradually bring all its powers into
manifestation and make it a master of the E th forces until
Mastership is attained. This process of self-development in­
cludes the power to attract to one’s self innumerable .Ethic,
Erial and invisible assistants. The present-day school terms
this the Invocation of the Hierarchic Powers. By the ancient
school it was known as Acsaphism. No system of Initiation is
complete unless it accomplishes this, and the E th Fraternity
maintains that those who live the life and obey the principles
of teaching laid down will come into these powers. Each and
every individual is neither more nor less than what he has
become as a result of the life he lives.
All the masters of the past have taught that thought is the
beginning of life; that Immortality is not possible unless man
begins to think along constructive lines and conceives that Im­
mortalization is possible and then begins to work in harmony
with the Divine Law, thereby starting the process which will
awaken the Divine Spark within himself.
The E th Fraternity in its instructions and training does not
deal at length with theory, but instructs the student in what to
do and how to do it. The first work in the Great Art is Image
Formation, because by this process the Neophyte is enabled to
33
T H E JE T H P R I E S T H O O D
form an Image of the work he desires to accomplish, and this
is held in mind to the exclusion of other and lesser images until
the desire has been brought into manifestation.
To the novice this may seem an extremely difficult proposi­
tion, but it is not nearly as arduous as it appears because the
training and the instructions are so simplified that mistakes are
not possible, and only faithfulness to practice and tenacity of
desire are necessary to success.
Image formation is but the first step in the Higher Occult.
It is no more than the “a” in the Great Art. Following the
First Logos, which has its beginning in thought and rapidly
gives way to desire, we have the Second Logos, the work of
vivifying, or giving life to the image formed by thought and
desire.
This is a little more difficult than the First Logos, because it
is an act of giving life to an inanimate object— to an image of
something desired by the Soul and the actual seeing of it as it
should appear when fully materialized. Previous training is
necessary to qualify the Neophyte to enter upon these prac­
tices, and it must not be thought that these efforts are the be­
ginning Of the Great Work. Long before these Drills are given
to the Neophyte he will have been fully instructed in all the
other and preliminary practices, so that he is fully prepared to
proceed. Image vivification is of supreme importance, and no
Neophyte can become an Initiate and Priest of the Mysteries
until he has become accomplished in this art.
When the Neophyte has mastered the practice of image for­
mation and its vivification, then he is ready to proceed to the
work of the Third Logos, which is the projection of the imaged
and vivified creation of his mind. This is one of the most im­
portant parts of the Great Work, though it is not as difficult
as that of formation and vivification, for the reason that his
preceding practice will have prepared him for it. Each step is,
34
T H E y ETH P R I E S T H O O D
naturally, more difficult or advanced than its precedents, but
will not appear so because of the growth the student attains as
he works.
The three Logi are the keys to all mastery and power.
Through them it is possible to influence objects near and far
for constructive purposes. Distance cannot interfere with the
forces of the awakened mind.
The Hall of Silence
In the Hall of Silence the Neophyte accomplishes the Great
'Work because therein he constructs his material or spiritual
edifice, whatever it may be. The old Masters and Initiates
taught that it is necessary to know, to will, to dare and to keep
silent. Of these four, silence is the most important because it is
only in the silence that the Soul can perform its proper func­
tions, and the Great Work is a work of the Soul in the realms
of the Soul. All Nature works silently and in secret, and he
who most closely follows the methods pursued by Nature is
certain to gain the power and the strength resident in Nature.
Silently must the Neophyte labor, he alone aware of the work
in which he is engaged. Thus he effectively avoids all resistance
and outside interference.
After Mastership has been reached, then he is privileged to
use his powers and influence for the good of humanity gener­
ally and occasionally specifically for individuals, as well as for
himself personally, but even then it is best if he does not talk
much concerning himself or his knowledge, and it is well to
remember the old adage: "In silence there is strength.” The
Great Fraternity itself is proof of the truth of this statement.
For centuries it has remained silent, laboring for the welfare of
those in need, and there have been long periods when the world
did not suspect that it continued to exist, knew nothing of the
men and women who, though following their various callings
35
T H E ^ETH P R I E S T H O O D
in the world, were also closely allied with the Great Work, con­
tinually using their knowledge and influence for the good of
the needy.
These men and women, all Initiates, cared little or nothing
whether or not any one knew of their association or their silent
labors. It was sufficient to them that they were fulfilling their
destiny despite all opposition to the contrary; and they found
that their work, the things accomplished, were complete recom­
pense for the sacrifices made, the energy expended and the self-
denial necessary. And here let it be said that the greater the
self-denial and sacrifice made by the Neophyte in favor of the
Great Work, the greater the returns in peace, power and inner
satisfaction.
It is actually in the Hall of Silence that the Soul of the Neo­
phyte is able to bring two worlds together. It is there that the
one world ends and the other begins, and there he may stand
with one foot, so to speak, in the visible world and the other
in the so-called invisible world. There it is that the Soul first
realizes the Immortalizing Fire; there that the eyes first behold
the Mystery of the Fire alight upon the Sacred Altar and re­
flected upon the screen of the Soul by means of the Sacred Drill.
In this corridor of the Great Work the Neophyte is in need of
patience. Just as the rose tree requires careful watching and
constant cultivation that it may grow healthily and put forth
the bud and then gradually develop into the full-blown rose,
so must the Neophyte be willing to give time and patience to
the Work in hand that the Soul may grow and manifest the
Divine Fire.
When once the Three Logi are mastered and have been
faithfully practiced for a time, then will appear the manifesta­
tion of that which has been formed, vivified and projected.
This cannot be accomplished in a week or a month, as it is
a process of normal growth, and all natural growth requires
36
T H E ^E T H P R I E S T H O O D
time. It is possible that where the Will of the Neophyte is suffi­
ciently strong and the Art has been more or less perfectly mas­
tered, he will be able to direct some of the forces for construc­
tive purposes, such as the healing of sufferers who have the
faith, or the reclaiming of a Soul that is going astray. In such
instances the perfect image of the person may be formed, then
vivified with perfect life and action and the perfect image pro­
jected so that it may be manifested in the person in need of
help.
However simple this work may appear, it quickly becomes
apparent to the Neophyte that much practice and consistent
study are necessary to attain any degree of proficiency and that
he requires the constant guidance of those who have themselves
passed through the entire training under a Master teacher. For
his part it is essential that he offer full obedience to his instruc­
tor and faithfulness to the practices taught, lest he make a fail­
ure of the Work or be greatly delayed in its consummation.
Because there have been men in times past, as there are in the
present day, who are capable of directing these forces with
almost immediate and seemingly miraculous results, the term
Magic has been applied to the results obtained. This term is a
misnomer; there is no such thing in fact as a magical art. What
has been called Magic is simply the application of Natural laws
as a result of the development of the Soul powers and the em­
ployment or direction of these forces to work in harmony with
the operating Law. This alone brings about the desired results.
Magic in its true sense is not a vulgar art. It is a three-fold
religious practice directed by the enlightened Soul. Magic is
the religious system of the Magi, embracing religion, philoso­
phy and science. Its practice is based on the Sacred Mantrams
and the Invocations which bring man nearer to his God; and
as this nearness is accomplished his powers increase in propor­
tion. No man can travel Godward without partaking of the
37
T H E AETH P R I E S T H O O D
nature of the Path he is on and of the Source toward which he
is approaching.
Thought magic is, therefore, nothing more nor less than the
full use of the trained and developed faculties of the mind for
the benefit of others, whether this be to serve a suffering Soul
or fo frustrate the evil designs of unenlightened man.
A trite saying frequently heard is that “anticipation is
greater than realization.” This is no doubt often true in so far
as the external world is concerned, but is fallacious reasoning
when applied to anything that concerns the Soul.
In the external world we imagine a variety of things, all of
which have to do with mortal and material existence and few
of which are realized. There is nothing perfect on this plane;
therefore, it is natural that the realization is not as perfect as
the desire. As a consequence, the accomplishment falling so far
short of the desire of the expected, for this reason anticipation
is greater than realization. But on the Soul plane all things are
as perfect as the mind can picture them, and when the student
looks forward to the realization of those things which concern
the Soul and its powers and makes the necessary effort for their
realization, he is not disappointed in the results. In this sphere
of activity and the traveling of the Path he will find the goal
which brings peace to the Soul because he seeks the Love world
instead of the illusory sense world. Realization of the real
rather than acceptance of illusion is the ultimate of the Great
Work, and if the heart be wholly true to the Great Art there
can be no failure nor disappointment when realization is
reached, because then the Soul of man is blended with the All
of God, and man is in the process of attaining Godhood—an
At-One-Ment, not only with God, but with all things that
exist. At this point he ceases to judge his fellow-men, realizing
that they seldom do anything but what they think is best for
themselves, and he has learned the deep meaning of the Esse-
nian Initiate’s behest, "Judge not.”
38
T H E >ETH P R I E S T H O O D
Enthusiasm Leads to Achievement
The operation of the Great Art is at once simple yet diffi­
cult. Success is well-nigh impossible for those who enter the
Work with some secret lack of faith, some reservation in the
heart, or desires contrary to the nature and spirit of the under­
taking. But to him who sets out on the Path with a whole
heart and earnest desire, all is a labor of love, and each step
brings a still greater love for experiences connected with it. It
is this increasing love which helps him to grow toward the goal
of achievement; which also lightens the efforts and sweetens
necessary sacrifices. He who most willingly gives up everything
without question and places full trust in the Hierarchies most
quickly reaps the benefits the Work has to offer. It was for this
reason that the Nazarine taught men to "take no thought for
the morrow,” as He knew the Law; that when thought and
desire are pure and of a constructive nature, there would be
ample protection against all evils.
Due to an understanding of this Law, men who were rich
and accomplished and accustomed to the luxuries of life gave
up everything without question to the Great Art. What they
did appeared rank foolishness to the mass and a possible source
of suffering and self-denial. The fact remains that they began
to reap almost immediately more than they had given up,
though in a different form or manner. They became the Mas­
ters of the ages, never to be forgotten even though their names
may not be found inscribed in the humanly erected Halls of
Fame. This principle of giving that one may receive has been
proved true and has been demonstrated in all realms of activity.
The artist, as an example—the real artist— is willing to live
in a hovel, if need be, and subsist on bread and wafer, devoting
all his thoughts, desires and energies to his chosen work. Ulti­
mately there emerges from obscurity a never-to-be-forgotten
artist who—and this is of greatest importance—does not con-
39
i
T H E y€TH P R I E S T H O O D
sider that he has made any undue sacrifice or done anything
unusual. Such a man might, if he wishes, succeed along other
lines and obtain enough money to give him all desired luxuries,
but his Soul is not of that nature. He lives for his art—for the
manifestation of a desire that burns like a flame in his Soul, and
to this end he is willing to deny himself to the utmost. As a
result, the Hierarchies watch over him and often guide him,
without his knowledge. He becomes a master in the realm of
his desire and is at peace with God, if not always with man.
Personal Instructions vs. Books
There are numerous books to be had which teach certain
principles of Occultism and Mysticism. Many of these books
have been written by Masters of the Art and are of real value
to the Neophyte since they set forth a philosophy which gives
him a foundation upon which to build. In the main, however,
they are worthless in so far as the Path is concerned, since it is
not their purport to teach or reveal practices. Their authors
know that the Neophyte can attain his end only by working
under the direct supervision of a guide and teacher who has
himself traveled the*Path. For this reason, if for no other, the
Great Fraternity has never found it possible successfully to
teach the Higher Work in classes or to groups of students. Each
student is a distinct, separate individuality requiring individ­
ual instruction different from that given to all others. Any
attempt to meet the requirements of students en masse is certain
to end in failure if not in the loss of all faith by the students of
the Great Work, because in their inexperience and ignorance
they blame the Work and not the faulty method of its
presentation.
There are other reasons why class or group instruction must
ever be a failure in the Higher Work and why each Neophyte
must be taught and guided as an individual directly under the
40
T H E J E T H P R I E S T H O O D
guidance of a teacher in the Great Fraternity. Neophytes who
believe themselves whole-heartedly interested in the Great Art,
but who are not truly so, fail because, instead of devoting their
entire attention to the Work in hand, they watch the activities
of other men and women on the Path and either judge them or
attempt to work in a similar manner, seeking similar experi­
ences or results. This most mistaken procedure ends in certain
failure. Their efforts result adversely to themselves while in no
way affecting those whom they have criticized or tried to copy.
What each student may think, desire or do is of no concern to
anyone but himself. What may seemingly be wrong for one
may be precisely right for another, since no two make exactly
the same progress or are in need of exactly the same experience.
Each one is a law to himself and must alone, save for the direc­
tion of his guide and teacher, work out his own individual and
distinctive destiny.
Realization in things which concern the Soul will come only
to those who work toward that end, and until such realization
is an established fact the student must, with the aid of his
teacher and guide, stand alone. He must be free from thoughts
and criticism of others on the Path; he must care little or noth­
ing for the condemnation of others; he must be ready and will­
ing to obey those who have his welfare at heart.
Lodge of the Arcanum
There arc two separate churches, lodges or temples. One of
these is the exoteric or external place of association with others
where the church or organization assembles; the other belongs
to the realm of the esoteric, the within of the individual. When
the Neophyte becomes—has attained the status of Master or
Initiate, he also becomes a lodge or temple within himself, com­
plete in every detail and appointment; and it is there, within
himself, that he meets with gods and angels, Hierarchies and
super-powers; aye, even God Himself. Did not the Essenian
41
TH E ^ T H P R I E S T H O O D
Initiate teach “Ye are the temples of the Living God,” and who
is there to deny His statement? 1
Like all other associations of men, the JEth Fraternity has its
temples where Acolytes may meet at appointed periods. But
the first and most important work is for the Neophyte to de­
velop himself and the Soul within himself, so that he may be­
come the prototype of the perfect universe; in very truth a
Microcosm of the Macrocosm, complete in all respects. Then
he will be more capable of appreciating an external organiza­
tion where he may meet others who think and feel as he does.
The Master Mystery
This is “the matrix of the Great Breath” from which are
created all things that exist. From the Lesser Breath the physi­
cal forms were created, and through this the body may be re­
created daily. From the Greater Breath, at one with the Cosmic
Soul, the individual Soul proceeded; and in that Breath is
found the Fire which will recreate or re-enlighten the Soul.
In these Mysteries the Neophyte is instructed in all the se­
crets that were open to the ancient Initiates, and he who is
obedient and who faithfully practices the Work must neces­
sarily come into the power which is the result, or the reaction,
upon him of his own activity in this realm of being.
The Sacred Aum Invocation
Besides the lesser Invocations, the Aum Invocation of the
true Initiates of old India is taught to the Neophyte, and ac­
cording to the old ritual, as taught by no other Order of the
present day.
1The "House of S. S." This is the House of Sanctus Spiritus, or Holy
Spirit, i.e., of the Sanctified Spirit. Before any student can become an
Initiate or Rosicrucian, he must have rebuilt his body, that is build his
temple or House: "Ye are the Temples of the Living God," and this also
requires that the Souls shall have become Illuminated, therefore Sanctified.
As a result each body is a Temple and each Soul a Sanctified Spirit.
42
T H E J ETH P R I E S T H O O D
For this reason, if for no other, it is of vast importance that
this Fraternity should, in one way or another, reach every per­
son throughout the entire world who is truly interested in the
Great Art and who may be seeking to be instructed in the high­
est and most sublime form of the Occult and Mystic. It is the
aim of the Fraternity to reach all such, to instruct and train
them thoroughly and, when thus prepared and found to be
loyal to the Priesthood, to commission them to teach mankind
at large in the Divine Law; to bring more of happiness and a
greater degree of peace between man and man and nation and
nation.
The Brethren of Light
The ultimate aim of all Initiation is to find the source of life
and the A or Center of the Soul. Every philosopher of the past,
as well as every Initiate, has asserted that this is possible, and
with some of the elder philosophers and teachers this was the
entire theme of their instructions. Few have attained this ulti­
mate, yet we feel that many will do so in the not distant future.
That this Work may be accomplished, man must fully pre­
pare himself; this is possible only through a thorough training
which considers the whole man as part of God’s scheme. The
Aith Priesthood offers its Neophytes this training; when this
has been completed in a satisfactory manner it is then that the
Fraternity will further instruct them in the Degree of Creative
Life.
Fire or heat we have long recognized as the underlying prin­
ciple of all life. When the heat leaves the body, life likewise
has left. Just so long as there is warmth, there is that much of
life. It is, therefore, part of the problem of life that this physi­
cal heat should be maintained in proper proportion. This idea
was well represented in symbolic form in'the ancient temples
of Initiates by the virgin Vestals who ever guarded the Sacred
43
T H E / E T H P R I E S T H O O D
Fire, never permitting it to die out under penalty of immediate
death.
We are not permitted to say a great deal concerning this
Work at this time and through this medium. Sufficient to state
that the methods are fully and completely taught, and that
even in the present age it has been shown that this part of the
Work is founded on a rational basis, because through these
methods both regeneration and rejuvenation of the whole man
have been accomplished, and man has changed from weakness
to strength, from approaching death to renewed life.
44
THE FRATERNITAS ROSJE
CRUCIS
(AUGUST FRATERNITY OF THE ROSY CROSS)
T
HE Rosy Cross in all its sublimity is the first phase of the
great Triangle and the first step in the training which
gradually leads to the Spiritual Hierarchy.; It is the prelimi­
nary grade of the Secret or Ancient Schools wherein is taught
a sublime philosophy of life and action, the Law of exact Jus­
tice, the principles underlying Compensation as relating to
every activity of life, the necessity of Manhood as a means to­
wards Godhood and Mastership. In its training the Rosy
Cross leads the gross man by degrees from the purely physical
and weakly human to the verity of the Spiritual. It instructs
the Acolyte in the process of transmutation, the acquisition of
health and strength, ridding the mind of all thoughts of weak­
ness and age, so that he may, by his own efforts, transmute the
base and inglorious into the pure and fine— the dross into the
finest gold. This process gradually brings about the Soul's
awakening and Illumination. Man thereby proves to himself
that he does possess a Soul and ultimately contacts the Inner
Center of his own being, there to find the ever-living, ever­
burning Sacred Fire of the Soul. In the words of Maeterlinck,
“What is man but a god afraid?" This fear is ultimately
eliminated and the next step is to contact the Hierarchies of
the Brotherhood. During this process, and as a result of his
own volition and efforts, the Neophyte becomes a Rosicrucian
and is henceforth a Brother of the August Fraternity.
The Scope of the Great Work
Like all Arcana in Nature, the August Fraternity, triple in
45
T H E / E T H P R I E S T H O O D
its organization, is symbolized by the Triangle with its up­
ward point toward high heaven, even as arises the flame of the
Sacred or, i.e., Ineffable Fire from the Great Center WITHIN
the Neophyte toward the Cosmic or Central Throne.
Imperial Eulis
Imperial Eulis is the second phase of the great Triangle. No
one is permitted to enroll for the instructions, but all who are
faithful will gradually grow into this grade and receive its
Ineffable instruction. Whether or not the Neophyte will ever
receive the Arcane inculcations depends wholly upon himself,
his own efforts and sincerity.
The Priesthood of /Eth
(The Brethren of Light)
This third phase of the great Triangle towers above all
other Arcane instructions and training. It embraces the
Higher Occult in all its phases and, in a sense, commences its
work after the efforts of the Rosy Cross have prepared the
Neophyte for the highest knowledge and Wisdom available to
man. The zEth Priesthood, with its Centralized authority and
Secret Council guides the Neophyte into the deeper realms of
study and practice. Here are developed those who become the
Initiates of the Exalted Third, the Brethren of Light (the
Flame) and into whose keeping are confided the Greater Mys­
teries of the Ancient Schools. As these Aspirants prove them­
selves worthy, manuscripts whose contents are little dreamed
of by the profane are placed into their hands, and, as they pro­
gress, they may, if they choose, become Ordained into the
Councils of Initiate Priests. To enter this realm of training
the Neophyte must be willing to lay aside self-opinion, self-
conceit, biased judgment, self-righteousness and all other
46
T H E jE T H P R I E S T H O O D
vices of smallness, and stand ready to help all, while condemn­
ing none.
Conditions for Enrollment
Life Scholarships— Classes B and C
A Life Scholarship means that you are enrolled in the Fra­
ternity for life, unless, due to unethical acts or unfaithfulness,
all rights and privileges are withdrawn. It means that lessons,
special instructions and personal guidance will be given the
student as he progresses in the Work, or as he is in need of such.
His training will be under a special instructor and guide who
will constantly seek to learn his every need in the Work. There
will be no further fees or dues. All the Fraternity has to offer,
except books, is at his command as he progresses step by step.
Method Practiced
When the Aspirant sends in his application-obligation, it
immediately receives careful examination, and if approved, he
is at once enrolled as a Neophyte. Lessons will begin arriving
by mail at regular intervals and in a natural, logical order.
These instructions are to be carefully studied and faithfully
practiced, as it is only through practice that the Neophyte will
be able to grow toward his Goal—physically, mentally, mate­
rially and Spiritually. These lessons are so complete and de­
tailed that little correspondence is necessary, but whenever
there is need of additional instructions or guidance, the student
is always at liberty to write to Headquarters^nd receive addi­
tional help.
Class B: Under this classification the applicant is enrolled
for a Life Scholarship in the Rosy Cross. The Neophyte re­
ceives full guidance and the entire training of the Fraternity
and, attaining the goal of Initiation, full membership in the
Fraternitas Rosce Crucis with all rights and privileges. (The
47
T H E ^ETH P R I E S T H O O D
Class B work does not include the instruction and rites leading
to ^ th Priesthood Initiation.) Life membership in Class B
requires a $50.00 donation.
Class C: This is a Life Scholarship in the Priesthood of
AJth and includes all of the work of the Rosy Cross, the
Occult Arcanum and complete training toward the Rite of In­
itiate Priesthood. The donation required is $150.00.
Those sincerely interested in the teachings and training of
the JEth Priesthood and Higher Occult, or Occult Arcanum,
should write for the brochures T H E OCCULT ARCANUM.
The supposition is that, in enrolling in either Class B or C,
the entire donation be remitted with the application. However,
it is the desire of the Fraternity to be of help to all sincere seek­
ers and where it is impossible for the applicant to remit the full
donation, terms and conditions may be arranged (within rea­
son) to suit the applicant, provided: the applicant is ready
and willing to do the best he can.
All communications must be addressed and all remittances
made to:
DEPARTMENT OF INSTRUCTION
Bev e r l y H a l l C o r p o r a t io n
Qu a k e r t o w n , P e n n a .
48
