{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__arundale___adventures_in_theosophy.pdf","mytitle":"Adventures In Theosophy","mylang":"de"}
ADVENTURE·S
IN THEOSOPHY
by
GEORGE S. ARUNDALE
-·-·:· _._.----
/ ·,
·-:~ ---
,, ~ ' ,
1 9 4 1
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
ADYAR, MADRAS, INDIA
P'LACED ON TH£ SHE&.f:
••....~-:1.:5!2..........,,"
S'ff VENKATf;SW>\ptA
CENTn't. UB :l4.F\'\I &
RESEARCH CENTRE,
Ace. No ~11~..
Date~....."
.•..., ...................,......
TIIRUPATL
COPYRIGHT _
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PREFACE
Adventures in Theosophy is a Call to those who
have the adventurous spirit from one who has always
,lived life as the Great Adventure.
Many of the Adventures of this book would have
found their rightful place in The Lotus Fire, an
Adventure in the realm of Yoga, had they been
written before its publication. Especially will students
<>f Symbolic Yoga appreciate the chapters on the use
.of " The Symbols in Healing," " An Adventure in
Sound, "An Adventure in Geometry," and other
similar Adventures.
Those who are using the technique outlined in
A Guardian Wall of Will will be interested in the con-
trasting technique given in " An Adventure of the
Night-the Fire-Pillar Motif," as w~ll as certain other
-chapters which expand the possibilities both of visible
.and invisible helping.
Written as this book has been during the period
.of the world's great baptism in suffering and conflict,
it appropriately opens with " An Adventure on Kuru-
!kshetra-the Warrior Song." In the same spirit of Will
Triumphant, it closes with " Become Adventurers-
Soldiers in the Masters' Army."
A. H. PETERSON
Adyar,
24 September 1941
CONTENTS
PREFACE
1. AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA-The
Warrior Song
2. AN ADVENTURE IN EVOLUTION-The Pen-
PAGE
v
dulum 22
3. AN ADVENTURE IN RECONSTRUCTION-
Types of Builders 26
4. AN ADVENTURE IN THE MIRACULOUS-
Dunkirk 37
5. AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC-The Working of
the Dark Forces 45
6. AN ADVENTURE OF THE NIGHT-The Fire-
Pillar Motif 60
7. AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING-Sadness
Entities 69
8. AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA-The
Symbols in Healing 85
9. AN ADVENTURE IN STUDY-in Terms of the
Kingly Will 101
10. AN ADVENTURE IN SOUND-Mantrams of
Power 110
11. AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY-A Concentra-
tion on Fundamentals 126
12. AN ADVENTURE IN DISCOVERING the Point
Centre of Our Being 144
13. AN ADVENTURE IN MEMORY-How to Remem-
ber Inner Plane Experiences 157
VIII
PAGE
14. AN ADVENTURE IN GREATNESS-Real and
Unreal 167
15. AN ADVENTURE IN CONTINUITY-The Essence
of Reincarnation 175
16. AN ADVENTURE IN REDEMPTION-The Rainbow
Will of God 180
17. AN ADVENTURE IN SIMPLICITY-A Fundamental
Keynote 189
18. ADVENTURES IN THANKFULNESS 200
19. AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH-towards Und~r-
standing ~ 209
20. THE ADVENTURE OF BEING IN LOVE 226
21. AN ADVENTURE IN CONSCIENCE-A Call to
Heaven 237
22. BECOME ADVENTURERS-Soldiers in the
Masters' Army 249
AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA-THE
WARRIOR SONG 1
SOME 7,100 years ago, it is said that The Bhagavad
Gita was revealed to Arjuna on the Ekadeshi day
corresponding to this in the month of Shravana. In
1939 this day falls on the 22nd of December, as the
corresponding lunar date.
I speak on this marvellous Scripture, The Bhagavad
Gita or the Song of the Lord, not as one versed in
Sanskrit lore, but rather as one who comes from a
distant land, who reverences this Song no less than
those who may be nearer to it by birth.
It is a universal Scripture, surely not exclusively
Hindu. So far as I understand the Gita, and each
individual must understand it in his own way, for it is
the song of himself as well as the Song of the Lord
Shri Krishna, it has three special meanings or appli-
cations:
(1) It has a meaning, a very definite meaning, for
India, a specific application for India as India is at the
present time. Its setting is India.
1 Address at Adyar, Gita Jayanti Day, 22 December 1939.
2 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA
(2) It has a meaning for Arjuna, and we are all of
us Arjunas. That name is simply symbolic of the
evolutionary individual, who is given the Song of
Songs at a certain state of doubt and despondency
in the course of his evolution. So the Song of the
Lord is the song of each one of us revealed in all its
supernal majesty by One who alone could sing it, that
song which is eternally singing in the heart of every
living creature.
This Song appeals to and applies to the everyday
individual such as Arjuna was, though he had immense
advantages over all of us.
(3) The Gita is the song of Life's Eternal Meaning,
It is the song for a particular time, and for any time.
It is the song for a particular individual and for all
individuals, whether superhuman, human or subhuman.
It is the Song of Life's Eternal Meaning from the
beginning of life right up to life's fruition.
IT GIVES THE WORD FOR INDIA
In order to understand the meaning of The Bhaga-
vad Gita for India, we must look at the setting in
which it was given. It was a setting between the
death of an India and the birth of an India. From
the Theosophical standpoint, we might say it was
the setting between the Third of the great national
Initiations and the Fourth great national Initia-
tion-between the initiation which reveals the
-THE WARRIOR SONG 3
tremendous unity of life, and the initiation which, after
revealing that unity, gives place to the Crucifixion, as
we have it in the Christian Scriptures, and thence to
the Resurrection to come.
From· that point of view The Bhagavad Gita is the
sounding of the Indian Mantram, the Indian Rhythm,
the Indian Word for her new dispensation. We must
try to hear within The Bhagavad Gita this particular
word which had to be spoken to break up the India
that was dying, and to give life, release, to the India
that was being born. It was the sounding of the
great mantram of India's death and therefore of
India's rebirth. No one can effectively study The
Bhagavad Gita who is not able to sense, at least in
some small measure, the nature of what the dying
was and what the birthing was to be.
We have an inkling of all of this in The Bhagavad
·Gita itself, and especially in Dr. Besant's Hints on the
Study of the Bhagavad Gita which gives us such
wonderful information about this setting.
Not only is there this Word which sounds through-
•OUt The Bhagavad Gita proclaiming India's dying and
India's rebirth,. but also is it sounding on every plane
.of her consciousness. No one who cannot understand·
.Atmic India, mental India, emotional India, and phys..
.ical India no less, the very soil of India, can appreciate
·what it was that was dying and to what she is to give
.rebirth.
4 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA
Unfortunately today there is largely either an emo-
tional-devotional study of The Bhagavad Gita or a,
purely intellectual understanding of that great Scrip-
ture. Its real meaning can only be understood by
those who can survey, to some extent at least, the
great cataclysms that caused worlds to die and worlds.
to be reborn. We have not yet discovered, The
Bhagavad Gita.
Added to the Great Revelation there have been'
numerous commentaries, and yet we can see,
from the way in which the average individual lives.
in India at the present time, that he is remote from
a realization of the essential nature of The Bhaga-
vad Gita.
Those who have the eyes to see can read there-
in the destiny of India. As is so often said, every
great Scripture, every profound and fundamental
Book, has many, many meanings according to the
capacity of the individual to understand. That is.
eminently true of The Bhagavad Gita. But The Bhaga-
vad Gita was neither written, nor was it read. It
was sung, and it was sung in the only language in
which the Real can be sung with any accuracy,
namely, Sanskrit. The Bhagavad Gita must be
s.ung to be understood, and our gain from it wilt:
depend upon our growth. The more we are
awake, the more will The Bhagavad Gita inevitably·
mean to us.
-THE WARRIOR SONG 5
'IT RECONCILES AHIMSA-HIMSA
A very special and wonderful significance in The
Bhagavad Gita is its perfect reconciliation between the
teaching of Ahimsa so rife at the present time, and
which is declared to be so much a part and parcel of
the Indian spirit and soul, and its opposite, which we
·call Himsa. It is the tremendous and magnificent
swing of the Pendulum of Life between war, on the
.one hand, and perfect harmlessness, on the other.
For the moment ignorance seems to be swinging.India
•in the direction of so-called harmlessness, but The
Bhagavad Gita rises high above these distinctions into
the Perfect Unity where all differences and contrasts
are perfectly reconciled.
As Dr. Besant points out time after time in her book
entitled Hints on the Study of the Bhagavad Gita, it is
a song of fighting just as it is also a song of peace,
and only those who can understand what is the
spiritual import of fighting can really enter into the
spiritual import of peace. In The Bhagavad Gita,
.rightly read, we can perceive where the spirit of
fighting enters and where the spirit of non-fighting is
to become dominant.
IT GIVES YOGAS OF CITIZENSHIP
In The Bhagavad Gita no less we perceive wonder-
·fully, marvellously set forth for any student of Civics,
Nationality, or the laws of Polity generally, what is
6 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKS
the nature of true nationhood, what a nation rea
We perceive the unity of the objects of service
nation, and the diversity of the modes of ser
There is a perfect series of eighteen Yogas whicl
the Vegas of Citizenship. .
So many people insist upon divorcing the spi
life from the life in the outer world that
take The Bhagavad Gita to be a Scripture apart
the world and intended largely for the Sannyasi
indivi9ual who has left the world ; not realizing
it is no less for the individual who belongs tc
world, who is part and parcel of the world,
the individual who must show his skill in the '
of Action no less than his skill in the Yog•
Renunciation.
It is to me most unfortunate that this marve
Book, with its application to life as we have it he
India, as elsewhere it could not have an applicatior
India today is a direct descendant of The Bhag
Gita, that such a Book is not the book of the estal
ment of India in her true nationhood. We de
look to The Bhagavad Gita for the principle
national life, nor for the principles of civic li·
Though those essential principles apply throughou
world and are equally true everywhere, they
nearer to us who are the direct inheritors o·
tradition of The Bhagavad Gita than they could I:
+ho ,..h;lrJ~.,.~ ~~ '-h- \111-->-
-THE WARRIOR SONG 7
H RESTATES THE CASTE SYSTEM
In The Bhagavad Gita the caste system is restated ;
yet ignoring this restatement we think of the caste
system as originally given, supposedly by the Lord
Vaivasvata Manu. This great restatement is in fact a
reflection from the heights, and it is part of the true
educational system of India to come that the great
principles of life set forth as nowhere else should be
so restated.
The difficulty is that there is so terrible a divorce
between the spirit and the material life, between the
life of the soul and the life of the individual in the outer
world, between Heaven and earth. In fact the nearer
the earth draws to Heaven, the more quickly will the
process of evolution proceed.
INDIA'S GREAT NEED
From one point of view The Bhagavad Gita has
given us the meaning for India when India was in the'
throes of dying and rebirth, when she was preparing
for what Dr. Besant calls her humiliation, .her sacrifice,
her crucifixion, that she might begin that rebirth in
the throes of which we are today. The Bhagavad
Gita is partly for the India of that time and partly for
India now, for there is no greater need for India than
that the very essence, the supreme teaching, of The
Bhagavad Gita should be brought down into its prac-
tical application.
8 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA
Can we imagine that lshvara, descending into the
· form of Shri Krishna, could do otherwise than give a
perfect Scripture to the world, a Scripture for daily
life. so far as the individual is concerned, a Scripture
also for the daily life of a nation, of the world ? We
may think of that precious, that priceless little book,
At the Feet of the Master, as giving a wondrous
intimate, simple, childlike teaching for every one. We
go a step inwards and we have this mighty Scripture.
The glory of it is that each one of us can find what he
needs ,therein, no matter what his way, his tempera-
ment, his setting may be in the world or in any part
of the world. He can find in The Bhagavad Gita a
note appropriate to him with which he should
synchronize in order that he may fulfil himself.
THE .MEANING FOR ARJUNAS
Let us turn to the meaning for the Arjunas of the
'world, and specifically for the particular personage
who had the tremendous privilege he had won through
previous lives of coming face to face with the Supreme
Force in human form, with himself in human form.
We can see throughout The Bhagavad Gita, until
the Lord reveals Himself in His Supremeness and
Arjuna ceases to doubt and to be despondent, how
Arjuna is just like one of us-mind-dominated, emo-
tion-dominated, worried, troubled and doubting just
as we all are from time to time. And especially was
-THE WARRIOR SONG 9
he so afflicted, because as the Chief Actor he was
·charged to take part in the destruction of his whole
world, so that that world might be reborn. Naturally
his doubts, his difficulties, his despondencies were
.greater than any we are likely to contact, because we
,have not any such cataclysm to confront. He felt
.himself entirely unequal to his part. So he was from
one point of view. But since the work had to be
·done and the Will of God had to be performed, he
.had to be made ready, and therefore gained that
.Illumination which would help him to achieve his duty.
Arjuna felt himself to be unequal. It is the same
with us. We all of us feel unequal in the emer-
-gencies, if not in ordinary daily life. But we only have
·to go to The Bhagavad Gita to perceive the principle
that will remove our doubts, a principle within us, not
outside, a principle that can be brought into activity
and so help us to remove from our being the clou~s
.of doubt by the sunshine of Reality.
'THE SLAYER OF THE REAL
The ordinary man, especially today, is always slaying
the Real with his mind, described in the great Scrip-
ture as " the slayer of the Real." The ordinary man
stifles the Real with his feelings, his emotions, his
doubts, his difficulties, his griefs. This was especially
true of Arjuna whose relatives were fighting on both
sides of the battle-doubts, difficulties, griefs were
10 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA.
incessantly dogging his footsteps. Only when the
Song was nearly concluded did he at last become
free. But think of the revelation that had to be
given to him that he might see. Lesser revelations
are available to us all. To every one is given what.
he needs for his release from the darkness in which
he finds himself. There was a supreme darkness in,
the case of Arjuna, a darkness which could only
be released by the descent of lshvara in His
Eternal Form.
It is only when Arjuna lifts himself up to His Lord1
that he begins tc perceive the Real. When he lifts
himself up to his Lord, he lifts himself up to Himself.
When we are reading the story of The Bhagavad Gita,
we are reading the story of ourselves. Every single
episode, whether wonderful or dark and despondent,.
is part of our own evolutionary process. While we
h(!ve none of us had that tremendous privilege of
the Revelation of God which came to Arjuna, stil~.
God does reveal Himself to each one of us according
to our needs. In The Bhagavad Gita we have the
apotheosis of that Revelation, the Supreme Revelation·
of God in His Eternity brought into terms of time·
for our understanding.
-RUNGS ON THE LADDER OF CONSCIOUSNESS
Always The Bhagavad Gita, therefore, 1s the·
Song of the Lord in each one of us ; however·
-THE WARRIOR SONG 1f
incomprehensible or difficult to understand, it remains
our song. If we cannot understand it, we are then able·
to perceive the distance between ourselves and our
own Reality, and the challenge comes to us to
make that distance shorter and shorter. The way of
making that distance shorter is clearly given in The
Bhagavad Gita itself. If we cannot understand it in
terms of one level of consciousness, we must bring it
down. We can think of a ladder of consciousness on
every rung of which is The Bhagavad Gita. The
meaning on a given rung is only to be perceived by
those who are on that particular rung. But sooner or
later there must be perception, because The Bhagavad
Gita is the Song of the Lord which is in us eternally.
THE SONG OF COURAGE
The Bhagavad Gita is the Song of Courage. There
is nothing to me more valuable than to turn from time
to time to The Bhagavad Gita to give me courage,
even though I can only contact the words of that
wonderful translation by Dr. Besant and Bhagavan Das.
There is a sense of courage in such a phrase as
" Therefore, stand up, Parantapa ! " In it there is the
rhythm of standing up. It is true also in that im-
mortal phrase, "Therefore stand up, 0 Son of Kunti,
resolute to fight." It is the Song of the Warrior
Lord, and we are all warriors. The whole process of
evolution is that of a God-Soul becoming a Warrior
12 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA
·God. That, of course, is the Supreme Message in page
after page of this most wonderful of our Scriptures.
THE YOGA OF THE DOWNWARD ARC
Let us not merely think of Yoga in terms of its
value for the Upward Arc. It has no less its reality
.on the downward arc of evolution, and in fact the
1
First Chapter of The Bhagavad Gita, called the Yoga
·of Despondency, gives despondency and illusion its
!right and natural place, not a place of humiliation but
a place of understanding, on the path of the Yogis to
the Yoga of Perfect Union.
One of the most illuminating passages in the whole
·of The Bhagavad Gita, a passage which helps us
tremendously even when we are not able to under-
stand its full implications is : " Thou grievest for those
that should not be grieved for, yet speakest words of
wisdom." Arjuna has spoken according to the light
·Of his wisdom, even though that light burns feebly.
But Shri Krishna puts it so graciously. "Thou
speakest in terms of the wisdom that can be expected
·from thee at thy stage of evolution. Thou art
giving of thy utmost wisdom, and though it is not
·enough, yet it is in wisdom the best thou canst give."
And when Arjuna grieves to the utmost of his
·grieving, at that supreme moment Shri Krishna says :
" Therefore, stand up, 0 Son of Kunti, resolute to
fight." That marvellous injunction comes at the end
-THE WARRIOR SONG 13·
of that splendid discourse on the indestructibility of
Life. Shri Krishna has revealed that Life cannot be
destroyed. Hence the command to fight.
THE KURUKSHETRA OF TODAY
The Bhagavad Gita should be heard in all its
magnificences in such a Kurukshetra as we have
today, for is there not a Kurukshetra here and now,
a world Kurukshetra, an offspring of that other
Kurukshetra which took place so many thousands of
years ago in India ? Are we not all Arjunas in this
world Kurukshetra ? Since the Song of the Lord was.
given then for all eternity, it is given for today no
less. It belongs to today. Those who desire to face
the world-crisis, to understand the world-crisis, and to
act reverently in the world-crisis, as we have it today,
can never do better than to hear the Song of the
Lord again.
Once more I would urge all who wish to under-
stand The Bhagavad Gita not to read it with the mind
but to hear it. I go back to the very early days,
thirty years ago, when in the Central Hindu College
at Benares a very dear friend, a great Sanskrit scholar,
Mahamahopadhyaya Pandit Adityarama Bhattacharya,
sang The Bhagavad Gita, because he knew its mean-
ing. It was wonderful to hear him singing the Song
of the Lord, first of all in the early morning to the
little children of four, five and six. Though they
14 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA
could not understand the Song of the Lord, they
:heard it in some part of their consciousness, for a
child is only a child in body, not in soul. We pay so
much attention to physical bodies in these days, we
forget what is so infinitely more important. The
.Song of the Lord rang so beautifully, selflessly, im-
:personally through this great Pandit that the children
.rejoiced more in that particular period than in any
other. From time to time he would sing to some of
us who were then devotees of Shri Krishna as we are
devotees today. And again it was wondrously beauti-
ful to hear the singing of that great man, the pure
and glorious truth that we need so much today. No
school is to my mind a school of any deep value
where the Song of the Lord cannot be heard through
·the lips of a real devotee of Shri Krishna.
Forms do not matter so much. Life matters in-
finitely more, and no form can stand any test, whether
in the e'ducational system or in any other field of
.activity, which does not have a direct relation to Life.
.A CALL TO THE NATIONS
If only Britain, America, 1n fact every country in
the world, had some knowledge of, and India had
more knowledge of, The Bhagavad Gita, either the
World War now in existence would not have happened,
.or India would respond to the Eternal Call of Shri
rKrishna: "Therefore fight, 0 Arjuna ! " We do not
-THE WARRIOR SONG 15
see, or if we see we do not perceive, we do not
,know. Illusion is round about us. We doubt now,
we are confused now, just as much as those before
us in the far bygone past doubted. Arjuna was but
the symbol of their doubting. So we have neutral
·Countries that do not realize that to them there goes
forth the call to fight. They do not realize that the
Divine Charioteer will always fight on the side which
-is destined to be the winning side, for the sake of
the advent of the Universal Brotherhood of mankind
.and of all life.
India today is passing through her Yoga of De-
spondency. We can see it in the utterances of most
d our leaders. They are despondent, waiting, doubt-
ful. But I hope that out of the Yoga of Despondency
will emerge the Yoga a>f Triumph which Arjuna
achieved. But where is the individual to give even
a partial revelation of the Song of the Eternal
lord?
Today we know The Bhagavad Gita in terms of the
written word, phrase after phrase, discourse after
discourse, with the innumerable meanings attached
thereto. We know The Bhagavad Gita in terms of
the mind, but otherwise we do not know it. So we
are helpless. The Bhagavad Gita was not a lecture
delivered in a hall and taken down in short-hand. It
was not spoken but sung at many levels of conscious-
ness. We who are Theosophists with some knowledge
16 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA
of the various rungs on the ladder of consciousness,.
we can understand how marvellously different the
Song of the Lord sounds when it is sung, let us say,
in the Atmic consciousness, as compared with what one
might hear with the physical ears.
A SONG OF THE ETERNAL
All of this reminds me of the wonderful utterances.
in The Voice of the Silence where the Master speaks
of the Ladder of Mystical Sounds, and the need each
one of us has to hear the voice of his Inner God in
seven manners :
The first is like the nightingale's sweet voice chanting a.
song of parting to its mate.
The second comes as the sound of a silver cymbal of
the Dhyanis, awakening the twinkling stars....
Some are familiar with that very beautiful series of
gradations of sounds that at last comes to the thunder
sounds of the Atmic Consciousness, the consciousness
of the will. Such an utterance is that of The Bhagavacf
Gita. How many can not only hear it uttered with
physical lips, but can hear it in all its deep grandeur
on plane after plane of consciousness ?
I am imprisoned by the fact that I have little know-
ledge of Sanskrit, so The Bhagavad Gita must remain
to me very largely a sealed book from the standpoint
of direct contact. But even the indirect contact
JS marvellous. From that supreme translation of
-THE WARRIOR SONG 17
Dr. Besant and Bhagavan Das I can read, sing, chant it
according to my own capacity to chant. Then it can
become soundless, so that I can hear it as from the
voice of my own silence in ascending stages of con-
sciousness until there comes that rolling, that beating
of what I have called in my book, The Lotus Fire, the
Cosmic Drums, and then there is the Silence which is.
the antithesis, and yet in a sense the reverberations
of these Drums which send forth the evolutionary
motif throughout the worlds.
The Bhagavad Gita is the Nightingale's Song of
Life's Eternal Meaning. It is the Song·of the Eternal,
Universal, and Individual Lord. It is a Song which
belongs to every one of us. It does not belong
alone to Shri Krishna, to Arjuna. It belongs to every
living creature in the non-human kingdoms no less
than in the human kingdoms.
The Bhagavad Gita is our book, as is true of every
Scripture of every Faith. However Universal, however
Cosmic, any great work may be, it is also individual,
microcosmic. The Bhagavad Gita is the supremely
individual book, the extremely individual song that we
are not only trying to sing but are singing in terms ot
Arjuna until the time comes when we shall be able
to sing in terms of Shri Krishna, Arjuna glorified,
Arjuna the God-Becoming growing into Shri Krishna
the God-Become. So The Bhagavad Gita is a revela-
tion of our future.
2
18 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA
AN INSPIRATION FOR TODAY
If only the world realized what a tremendous in-
spiration The Bhagavad Gita could give, it would come
of its own volition, its own free will, and understand
little by little its magnificent teachings. In the cata-
clysms in the midst of which the world finds itself and
in which every one of us ought to find himself, for he
must take part in the cataclysms in which his brethren
are immersed, we shall find the tremendous worth of
The Bhagavad Gita. As, we take part in this Kuru-
kshetra of the world, we shall find how The Bhaga-
vad Gita applies to us, stirs us to courage, removes
from us the doubts, the despondencies, the griefs, all
the inhibitions that are veils between us and our own
Divinity.
We are led up to that wonderful Tenth Discourse,
the most sublime song one can possibly imagine ;
there is nothing more glorious. One only wishes it
could be set to music, Indian music to start with.
Even in the translation its rhythm is magnificent. It
penetrates into Reality and has a magic power of
drawing down the Infinite into terms of the finite in a
way that makes perfectly clear to me it is a song
which ought to be sung. I can conceive of no more
wonderful.,:gift to the world; not even the hymns of
glorification of Shri Krishna could be greater than the
very Song of the Lord Himself given in sound, in
colour and in form. Such a revelation, such a singing,
-THE WARRIOR SONG 19
however imperfect, would show to mankind their
souls as nothing else could show them. Even in the
West where Sanskrit may not be known in the lower
·forms of our consciousness, the Song of the Lord
would draw together the peoples of the earth and
cause them to know their Brotherhood and Unity. I
.can conceive of nothing more thrilling than the Tenth
Discourse sung and danced by Shrimati Rukmini Devi
with all the reverence she could give to it, with all
the truth she would bring to its translation.
ISHVARA REVEALS HIMSELF
Inevitably the Eleventh Discourse follows after the
Tenth. Arjuna is like the Arjunas today. He wants
to know. There could have been nothing more
marvellous than the Tenth Discourse, but he says :
"Give me more."
Then Shri Krishna reveals Himself as lshvara had
never been revealed before, as lshvara has never been
revealed since, and only could so reveal Himself,
because, as Shri Krishna says to Arjuna, " the Divine
Eye give I unto thee." Then the tremendous words :
"Having thus spoken... the great Lord of Yoga, Hari,
showed to Partha His supreme form as Lord." Then the
magic, the wonder, the flash of lightning of Arjuna's
,recognition, but it was too much for him :
Show me, 0 God, Thine other form again,
Mercy, 0 God of Gods, home of all worlds.
20 AN ADVENTURE ON KURUKSHETRA.
The Himalayas Jre brought down into the valleys,
but so overwhelming are They that we ask that the
valleys appear before us again, that the Himalayas
return to the rightful setting for Their Magnificences.
But then, because of these tremendous revelations,
Arjuna sings : " Destroyed is my delusion . . . I am
firm, my doubts have fled away. I will do according
to Thy word." He might equally well have said,
"According to MY word," for the Word of Shri·
Krishna is also the word of Arjuna, the Word Eternal.
for All.
LET THE SONG BE HEARD
We can only understand The Bhagavad Gita as we
live it, however humbly, feebly, haltingly. It must
be lived, otherwise it cannot be understood. It is
the Song of the Lord which sings in the hearts of
all. But sometimes it is given to us face to face that
we may look upon ourselves and build to greater
purpose.
Each one of the eighteen Yogas is a wonderful'
pathway, on one or another of which we are treading
our way to that Supreme Yoga which unites all Yogas,
that Yoga which, though called the Yoga of Renun-
ciation, is the Yoga of Fulfilment, the Yoga of Com-
pleted Union.
How wonderful it is to think of this day, dedicated
to that Song of the Lord ! I feel so certain that, on a
-THE WARRIOR SONG 21
day like this, through·~Vt-"'l~dia ther:,~;'~;~~~;.(,onderful
release of marvellous Slr@J:1g~"the;5.bng':p.( Harmony,
the Song of Unity, Univer~-~ll.Br:-otbii'rt-rO:od in Song. I
·can think of that as rising up from every village, town
and city in this country, near as India is to The Bhaga-
vad Gita, and I can think of the world as helped
thereby. It was because of that, when some
devotees in Poona asked me if I would sign a nation-
wide appeal, I felt so happy to do so, and it is be-
cause of that I have written to every Theosophical
Lodge throughout India that it should celebrate this
day beautifully, simply, truly, not in terms of the
mind, but in terms of aspiration. It is because of
that we had the beautiful Puja this morning in the
Bharat Samaj Temple. It is because of that this even-
.ing there will be beautiful religious tributes to Shri
Krishna in song and flute. I hope that Adyar will be
purified by our devotions to Shri Krishna, and I hope
we shall be better fitted to do the Masters' work
throughout the world, and that we may help this dis-
tracted world just a little out of its inevitable and
rightful darkness into the Light which belongs to a
world that is becoming new.
A new world is before us. We need The Bhaga-
vad Gita to usher in that new world ! Let the Song of
the Lord be heard. Let the people of the world
hear!
AN ADVENTURE IN EVOLUTION-THE
PENDULUM 1
AS the great Pendulum of Evolution swings constantly
between darkness and Light, between death and Life,.
between wrong and Right, so does it swing constantly
between war and Peace.
And the great Pendulum must ever so swing while
wrong and ignorance survive anywhere in the world.
So long as there is wrong anywhere, done to any form
of life, or ignorance anywhere, so long must there be
war to right the wrong, to dispel ignorance.
Yet, as evolution unfolds and all life draws nearer
to the goal of its Divinity, the great Pendulum slowly
rises from the lowest levels of its swinging, marking
on plane after plane the mutual victory of war and'
peace for Righteousness.
At present, the great Pendulum still swings at its
lowest levels, for war has still to be waged in terms of-
physical action, though swinging, of course, on all
higher levels no less.
It cannot be hoped that the present war, which has.
descended on to the physical plane through the·
1 Written in August 1940.
-THE PENDULUM 23
planes of the will, the mind and the emotions, and on
the very physical plane itself reflects all wars on all
other planes, will end war. War is still needed for
the righting of wrongs innumerable.
But can it be hoped that this war may end for
.ever war on the physical plane ? Can it be hoped
that physical conflict shall at last cease, even though
war must still go on elsewhere ?
But if physical conflict is to cease, war must be
diminished on the plane of the feelings and the
emotions, and on the plane of the mind.
Hatred and cruelty must disappear from the
plane of the feelings and the emotions, and proud
superiority and contempt from the plane of · the
mind. •
From the votaries of religions must disappear all
sense of a missionary .spirit conceived in the proud
belief that their respective faiths are superior to the
faiths of others.
From nations must disappear all aggressive
nationalism.
From races must disappear all spirit of racial
discrimination.
From individuals must disappear all sense of supe-
riority over other individuals.
Only when in the feelings and the emotions and in
the mind the war spir:it rises to fever heat does a war
abscess form on the physical plane itself.
24 AN ADVENTURE IN EVOLUTION
There must be no war fever within, then only can
there be no war as we see it today in all its horrors
on the physical plane.
That war shall. utterly disappear from feelings,
emotions and mind cannot be expected, for the world
is not yet ready for this. But it can disappear
sufficiently so that it shall not break out in physical
conflict.
And let it be remembered that war is not confined
within the human kingdom. There is war between
the human kingdom and the sub-human kingdoms.
This inter-kingdom war is a cruel and ruthless war, no
l.ess ruthless and cruel than the war the Nazis are
waging against humanity today. Many of us have
the Nazi sprrit towards animals, even though uncon-
sciously. But unconscious cruelty is only a step re-
moved from conscious cruelty. For those upon whom
such cruelty is perpetrated there is the same suffer-
ing, be the cruelty conscious or unconscious.
Let us all minimize the war spirit in ourselves-in
our words, in our feelings and emotions, in ol:lr
thoughts, and in our actions.
Let us minimize the war spirit that manifests in
irritability, in suspicion, in distrust, in contempt, in
anger, in hatred, in selfish pride, in callous greed, in
cruelty. So shall we help the great Pendulum of
Evolution to rise from the depths of horror into which
the war spirit in us causes it to descend.
-THE PENDULUM 25
We are all responsible, though some may be more
'responsible than others. But if we give to peace a
victory over ourselves, then will there be a victory the
;'less for war to achieve.
AN ADVENTURE IN RECONSTRUCTION-
TYPES OF BUILDERS 1
DURING all these c;lifficult and challenging times I am
intent on a day-long and night-long meditation of my·
own to try to perceive what is wanted in the world
and to call aloud for it, for all honest calls from
earth find attentive ears in Heaven, and indeed on.
earth too.
I have made a list, particularly with reference to·
persons, of what seem to me to be the needs of the
world. I am constantly thinking of the type of person,
needed and looking about for that type of person.
everywhere.
PROPHET-INTERPRETER-BUILDER
There are three types that are imperatively needed
at the present time-the Prophet, the Interpreter of
the prophecy, and the Builder of the interpretation
into the stuff of world affairs. How we need the
Prophet, the Interpreter and the Builder in India today !
If we had twenty, fifty or a hundred prophets, each
prophesying perhaps differently-there is no need!
that they should synchronize their prophecies, but.
1 Address at Adyar, 25 August 1940.
-TYPES OF BUILDERS 27
rather that they should have the spirit of prophecy-
then they should be able to declare the future, they
should be able to bring down their visions, just as
those visions are, of the future as it is, leaving inter-
pretations for others. There should be voices crying
in the wilderness of India, in the wilderness of
every country throughout the world. And these
voices must just cry aloud. They need not be as.
definite even as John the Baptist may have been def-
inite. I am looking everywhere for prophets, but they
are difficult to seek and even more difficult to find.
I think I should call Mr. Winston Churchill a prophet.
Other things he no doubt also is-he has a peculiar
combination of faculties. But when I look around
here in India, Ifind it difficult to discover someone who is
able to point to a picture of India in the spirit of an
illumined vision of India's future. Is there anyone in
India toQay who has given, for example, the vision that
Dr. Besant herself gave so magnificently of India's
great Goal?
The world needs prophets, and I think we ought to·
sow and reap a crop of1 prophets from within The
Theosophical Society.
I believe that there is entrusted to you and to me,
as members of The Theosophical Society, a clear·
vision, a clear picture of India's future. I think I have
certain glimpses of it, which no doubt may be distort-
ed and may be subject to the limiting influences of
28 AN ADVENTURE IN RECONSTRUCTION
the personal equation. Nevertheless I think I have
this picture of India's future derived from the magnifi-
cent vista disclosed so wonderfully to us by Dr. Besant.
Every single member of The Theosophical Society, for
.his own good, should have some power of prophecy
within him.
Then we need the Interpreter, the man who will
bring down the prophecy and clearly apply it to every-
day conditions.
Then we need those who will build a national house
·for the prophecy in terms of its rightful interpretation.
We must look for prophets, interpreters and builders.
H we are to have any peace that is likely to be lasting,
>it must be well built, it must have prophecy in it, and
there must be in it the interpretation of that prophecy
.in terms of existing conditions.
JHE NEED FOR FAITH AND SOLITUDE
But if these great types of men are to fulfil their
work in the world, we must have more faith. You
will remember the pregnant phrase spoken concerning
the Christ in Matthew, 13. 58 : " And He did not
many mighty works there because of their unbelief.''
That is supremely true. If a prophet is to come into
the .world, if an interpreter is to give his interpreta-
tion of the prophecy, and a builder is to build on
the basis of that interpretation, there must be a soil
-of faith. Unless there had been faith in H. P. B.
-TYPES OF BUILDERS 29'
we would not have had The Theosophical Society as
we have it. Faith is vital. We must have faith.
Otherwise these three great types of individuals will
not be able to perform their mighty works, even as
the Christ was unable to do " many mighty works.
there because of their unbelief."
We want more solitary people throughout the
world. Most people do not like to be alone. They
are afraid to be alone. Why are they afraid to be
alone? Because they do not think-they are thought,.
and if you remove them from contact with the outer
world from which they derive their food, and plunge·
them into what by contrast seems to them to be but
an empty vacuum, they are lost ; whereas, the indi-
vidual who draws his life from within is happier in
solitude than when he is amidst crowds. If anyone
does not like to be alone, if he feels lonesome when
he is not in the midst of other people, it is probably
because he is depending too much on the without and
has not the realization he should have of the splen-
dour of the Within.
Is not Aurobindo Ghose serving the world greatly
in his solitude ?
THE NEED FOR ORIGINALITY
Then there is the need for originality ; if we are to
build a new world. it must be a world different from
the old world, though the eternal spirit of the old.
AN ADVENTURE IN RECONSTRUCTION
world must be in the new world no less. What is
-originality? It is not an easy word to define. Each
-one of us must sooner or later endeavour to evoke
an independent expression of individuality. I think
individuality and originality are extraordinarily closely
connected. Nobody can ever hope to be original
who is not individual. To me an act of originality is
a great expression or evocation of the splendidly
,unique individuality each person is.
Originality is not necessarily doing something new,
;,but rather doing something which is fragrant with,
into which there is an infusion of, the very individual
soul of the person concerned ; and there are not so
very many people who have the spirit of originality in
them. Most of us tend to be second-hand, however
much we may often think we are first-hand. It is
very vital for us to examine the contents of our
various consciousnesses to see where they come from
-outside, and where there may be something welling up
from within. I cannot help feeling that for the most
part we are thought, we are felt, we do not think, we
do not feel. It is when our individuality is sufficiently
awakened, is sufficiently grown, when it can express
,itself under the influence of the Monad perhaps, or at
least under the influence of the Ego, that there will
come that original contribution to life which every
one of us sooner or later must give, and for lack of
which life suffers as life is suffering at the present time.
-TYPES OF BUILDERS 31
It therefore behoves us, in these days particularly
when the world is being renewed, that we should
enter upon a voyage of discovery of ourselves to
iknow who we really are, apart from all the trappings
with which our particular incarnation may have been
nvested. We may be this, that or the other, but
. what really are we ? What is it that is the greatest
-common measure of our being, apart from all the
fleeting conditions which make up one incarnation
after another ?
The world is seeking its soul, having in a measure
ost it awhile, or, if you· like, not having been able
heretofore to discover its soul as it should. In the
very midst of the war with all its upheaval, the world
is in search of its soul. Every faith, every individual
must be in search of the soul. If it is possible to
come to some sense of the fundamentals of your being
and to cause it down here really to dominate your
present incarnation, then there may come that origin-
ality, that expression of )!OUrself, which will have the
marvellous effect of shedding new light upon a world
all the more in darkness, because there is too much
of the herd spirit in every part of the world, in every
aspect of its life.
THE NEED FOR ART
I perceive the need of art. We want more art,
with which, of course, one couples refinement, culture,
32 AN ADVENTURE IN RECONSTRUCTION\
and all that which is of the essence of civilization.
Then I say to myself, what is art? Here again you:
may rend to pieces my definition so that we may to-
gether arrive at the greatest common measure of a
definition of art. Art is an intimation to the senses.
of the True and the Beautiful, and, therefore, of the
Good. I use that word " intimation, " because it
includes not merely the eyes but all the other senses
as well-ears, taste, smell, contact-all that lies with-
in the purview of art. The intimation brings down
the Real from the larger consciousness, and my acid
test would be the extent to which in any picture,.
in any piece of music, in any product of the culinary
art which is no less an art, in every action, there is an.
intimation of the True and the Beautiful, and there-
fore of the God.
Each person must judge for himself. There must
be various criteria and each person must be happy
in his own, though not feeling that his own are better
than those of anybody else.
We must have more art, especially art that is not
submerged under foreign influence. We must have
more artists, more of those who are in touch with the
larger consciousness and are able to convey some inti-
mation of it through the senses.
Therefore, we need more prophets, more interpret-
ers, more builders, more people who can distil from
the flower of solitude the essence of being, more
-TYPES OF BUILDERS 33
people who have the capacity to be faithful, more
people who have the capacity to be themselves, more
artists, more Godlike creators.
LIVE SLOWLY
Then there is a particular condition which the world
needs less than exists at the present time. We need
less speed. There is far too much speed in 'the world.
We have sooner or later, though perhaps not in the
very midst of the war itself, to learn to live more
slowly. In Hinduism there is a divine dispensation
where life is divided into the four Ashramas and in the
fourth there is a slowing-down. Not that one lives.
less effectively, but on the contrary one lives more
deeply in the greater depths and heights, though less.
swiftly along the surfaces.
In these days hecti!=ism prevails. So be it. If it
must, it must. But the more deeply we live-1 was.
going to say the older we grow, but I will not, because
of the unpleasant implications and misuse of the word
to mean the losing of one's powers, becoming senile,
assuming a second childhood-the more deeply we
penetrate into life in terms of advancing experience
and expanding years, the more shall we learn to live
slowly in the sense of attaching greater values to the
little things. How constantly is it impressed upon me
at my advancing age that the little things matter so
very much ! If I can attend to all the trivial
3
34 AN ADVENTURE IN RECONSTRUCTION
circumstances of my life, then I shall be all the better
able to attend to all the major circumstances.
liVE CAREFULLY
It is, therefore, incumbent upon me, so far as my
room is concerned, to see as best I can that there is
not a book which is crooked, a pencil which is out of
place. If there be any apparent confusion, it must
have a meaning, it must be a constructive, not a
destructive confusion. I must see that each picture
is straight on the wall. I must see that everything
is saying what it has to say where it is. I must see
that nothing is out of place, so that it cannot say what
it should, because it is in the wrong place. Where is
the pencil, the pen, the paper? Are they where
they ought to be, or are they muddled and unable to
speak their honest and one-pointed words ? I must try
to fulfil this very necessary exaltation of the apparently,
but not really, trivial. So whenever I go into my
room I take a quick and penetrating look around to
see that everything has its due opportunity where it is
to speak its word of power.
I know how immensely helpful is that careful living.
But, of course, these days tend to carelessness, to
slurring over the foundations upon which· all effective
and enduring superstructures must be laid.
Whenever I go into a meeting, I say to myself: Do
be careful to say what ought to be said, to do what
-TYPES OF BUILDERS 35
,ought to be done. Do not go to your place in the
.room by the wrong way, but by the left rather than by
the right. Take your place where you feel it is right
·for you to take it, regardless of what others may say,
whether it be at the foot or the head of the table.
Then be careful with your fieriness that there is
'nothing which produces uncontrolled excitement. If
somebody says something of which you dis-
.approve, meet him with the calm that should
always be exercised in these days of excitement.
'Whatever. happens do not let out a torrent of words.
'We often see what we are going to say, almost as if
with our physical eyes, and then we clatter it out as if
from one of these machine guns. I remember a
.motto that Mr. Jinarajadasa and I have exchanged.
:It is marked by the letters-" D.B.C." or "Do be
.careful." That is a motto in these catastrophic days
which is well for us all to observe if we would be
useful to our fullest capacity to the work of the Elder
Brethren.
I will here interpose a verse, the origin of which I
.do not know :
Guests of the ages,
At tomorrow's door why shrink ye?
The long track behind us lies.
The lamps gleam and the music throbs before,
Bidding us enter.
And I count him wise
Who loves so well man's noble memories
.He needs must love man's nobler hopes still more.
36 AN ADVENTURE IN RECONSTRUCTION-TYPES OF BUILDERS.
This poem is a very beautiful incitement to look
forward to the future with hope, with certainty, with
buoyant eagerness, and to ally the past and the
present to the building of the future.
I like that phrase "guests of the ages." We are
within the hospitality of God. We are God's guests,.
and He is the Perfect Host. That brings before me
a very tender and delicate and gracious conception as
to who we are and what are our relationships through
the ages. " The long track behind us lies. The
lamps gleam and the music throbs before, ~idding us
enter " into the future. " And I count him wise who
loves so well man's noble memories he needs must
love man's nobler hopes still more," because they
are the larger hopes. I am immediately reminded of
a great Teacher's phrase applied to Australia-Land
of the Larger Hope-for hopes are always becoming
larger, and however noble memories are, our hopes.
must needs become nobler still.
AN ADVENTURE IN THE MIRACULOUS-
DUNKIRK 1
WITH regard to the war there is one particular
occasion for thankfulness which impresses itself very
positively upon me : It is the fact that just as during
the last war there were on due occasions the interven-
tion of those whom we may call the " Spiritual
Hosts," so are we beginning to notice during the
present war similar interventions.
DIVINE INTERVENTIONS
Those of us who have the eyes to see, and I hope
that there are many such in The Theosophical Society,
know in some measure, though only in some measure,
that apart from the physical forces there are spiritual
powers actively, positively, definitely engaged in the
war, that there are Spiritual Battalions working, within
the Law, for Righteousness. But we also know,
though I hope it will not be misunderstood, that these
.Spiritual Battalions Themselves must bow before the
1 Address at Adyar, 28 July 1940.
38 AN ADVEt-JTURE IN THE MIRACULOUS·
Law. It is the Law that is paramount. Not one of
these great Spiritual Battalions assembled by the
Elder Brethren could at any time flout the Law, that
Law of the World which is a reflection of the Law of
the Universe. So we must not imagine that the
Spiritual Battalions are invincible, but that the Law is
invincible, and that the Spiritual Battalions, just as outer
world forces, must work within the Law and under the·
domination of the Law.
In the last war there is a record of more than one
episode of intervention of the Spiritual Forces on the·
physical plane itself. There is the historic intervention
at Mons, though some do not credit it, when the
Angel Hosts held back the German advance, so that
victory might be for the Allies. An exactly similar·
intervention took place on the occasion of the re-
treat from Dunkirk. It is everywhere recognized that
the retreat was a miracle, but that miracle has been
attributed to the valour of the actual armed forces at
work, and not to any intervention. As a matter of
fact there was this intervention in order that the final
line of defence for the forces of the Right might not
be imperilled. Mr. Winston Churchill in his very
splendid speech on the occasion points out that
supposing defeat had come, then at the utmost
30,000 men might have been saved out of the some
400,000 men that were involved. Yet some 335,000
men were able to retire to England to form the.
-DUNKIRK 39
nucleus of the great defensive force that will probably
shortly be so urgently needed.
One must realize these things without being swayed
·or tricked by the innumerable ideas that inevitably
may come to us from one source or another
regarding the Right or wrong in connection with the
situation as it develops. Blame always can be ap-
portioned. It can be said that for the retreat King
Leopold was responsible, though we now know he
has throughout acted with wonderful courage and
patriotism. It can be said that Britain should have
stood more effectively by the side of her French Allies,
and had she done so, the situation would have been
far different than it was. Some have said that Britain's
attitude towards Holland and Belgium was far from
what it ought to have been and that the blame lies
with Britain for failure to do what should have been
done for these countries.
I do not want to bother with such complications.
It is extremely difficult to know where the Right and
the wrong is. Very often it is our prejudice that tends
to apportion blame here and approval there. But
without entering into the way in which the situation
develops or trying to apportion the responsibility in
one direction or another, the fact does remain that
there was this intervention.
Anyone who is working ardently with the Spiritual
Forces must have a constant intimation of what is
40 AN ADVENTURE IN THE MIRACULOUS
going on, and when there is a peak of that kind, the
intimation must descend with force, down even into
the waking consciousness. If it does not, there must
be inevitably some hiatus, some prejudice, some ·
narrowness of vision which blurs the imagination
which should be so clear.
WHAT THIS MIRACLE MEANS
I was not in a position to verify the incident as to
the Angel of Mons in the last war, but I can testify to
this, the first great miracle (though there may have
been others) of this war-the halting of the forces
for unrighteousness so that the situation might not
become as desperate as otherwise it was bound
to become. You will remember that Mr. Winston
Churchill called the retreat from Dunkirk a " major
military disaster." We can condemn or excuse as we
like, the fact remains that it was a major military
disaster, and yet that disaster was retrieved. I am
perfectly convinced, because of the fact of that
miracle, that should occasion arise, and provided
always that there is on the whole a spirit of dedica-
tion, of consecration, among the forces concerned,
that other miracles will happen again, if need be, for
the simple reason that the future of the happiness of
the world does not rest with you and me alone-it is
far more the concern of the Elder Brethren than it is
the concern of ourselves.
-DUNKIRK 41
We pygmies are here today and gone tomorrow.
The Elder Brethren have far deeper considerations than
just those time considerations which may so definitely
sway us. I think it is important that we should know
that there must be an assembling of the armies of
·the Elder Brethren, Their own immediate armies, for.
the work that has to be done. I think it is important
·to remember that, should occasion arise, such armies
would within the Law give even material expression
to themselves for the sake of the victory that must
be won.
Many individuals say that the war cannot result in
victory for the Allies, that one must look for defeat.
.Such can never be the attitude of a discerning mem-
lber of The Theosophical Society, in so far as he has
-contact with the Plan and with the Realities as they
become perceptible.
In the light of that particular miracle, in which
some of us may have participated according to our
capacities, one could see before one's eyes the
Truth. Whatever our opinions down here about war,
we are there lifted out of the miasmas and the fogs
·of ignorance into a keener perception of Life. What-
·ever our views here, ·there we see more clearly.
Here we see as through a glass darkly ; there we
see face to face.
It is the destiny of us all to make our way through
our darkness into our Light, and we must be willing
42 AN ADVENTURE IN THE MIRACULOUS·
to be in the midst of the darkness, but constantly to
challenge every aspect of ourselves that it may give
way to the Light with as little delay as possible,
especially in these times.
OUR SUPERNORMAL SELVES
We must not be our normal selves now. The
world is in a supernormal condition. We should be
our supernormal Selves, even if we may have to·
return to normality later on. Gods are living in the·
world today. We are in the midst of earthquakes
and cataclysms. With the strength of Gods we must
breast the earthquakes and cataclysms. We must
become stormy, we must become cataclysmic, so.
that we no longer pursue the even tenor of our ways
but move about as tremendously as our particular·
stage of evolution permits ; in whatever we may be
doing there must be that certain storminess. Be our
expression of ourselves what it may, it should be a·
thunder-and-lightning expression, so that we no longer
remain placid, but rather that we become tempestuous,
impetuous, impulsive even, so that we take by storm·
this Kingdom of Heaven that is so much round about
us at the present time. That is the advantage we
have today. It does not so very much matter what
is the nature of our storm, so long as we are stormy.
By stormy I do not mean troublesome, irritable,
fussy, tiresome to those around us which it is so easy·
-DUNKIRK 43
for all of us to be. in these days. There is such a
pressure upon us that, unless we can take our stor-
miness up into the heavens, it may very well react on.
our various bodies and make us from time to time
tiresome and troublesome to those around us. I do
not know what any of the rest of you will admit, but
I must say that if you challenge me on this charge I
will not deny it, though I hope I am gradually over-
coming it.
So one of my thankfulnesses, deep and heartfelt,
is that miracles are taking place as may seem ex-
pedient, though I should, of course, say that they
are not really miracles. They are the outcome of
forces perhaps set in motion thousands of years ago.
This war does not date from yesterday, or even from
a few years back. This war is not a war of Hitler's,
of Britain's, or of any other country. This war is not a
tirne war but an aspect of that Eternal War that is
ever being waged between Light and darkness,
I wish I were young enough to take up arms.
One has a very deep longing to be in the thick of
the fight, even though one might well be better em-
ployed. Though l am eager for Peace, as we all of
us are, I am no pacifist. Though I appreciate the
pacifist, I am no conscientious objector, though at
one time I could very easily have been, for I appre-
ciate such a man tremendously. I do like to see a
man stand up for his conscience, whatever it may be,.
44 AN ADVENTURE IN THE MIRACULOUS-DUNKIRK
provided he has a conscience. In the last war I had
a great privilege in working with Mr. Baillie-Weaver,
himself a conscientious objector, to give what help I
could to conscientious objectors. Today a little wiser,
at all events different, I should like to be able to go
to the front and with all my faculties at work to hurl
myself against the barbaric hordes.
AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC-THE
WORKING OF THE DARK FORCES 1
I SHOULD like to say a few words on the actual
practical working of the dark forces, so far as regards
the everyday individual in such times as these.
We have first to remember that though there is
no organization of the dark forces, though there is
no chairman, no society for the promotion of the
dark forces, still they are peculiarly well organized, in
the sense that they do not seem very much to over-
lap and interfere with each other's centres of
influence.
THEIR OBJECTIVES-KEY-PEOPLE
Apart from accumulating and directing those un-
desirable. forces which the world is constantly generat-
ing so as to focus them into some point which shall
pierce the armour of Peace and let loose through
that point the forces of war, apart from such general
activity, they are always concerned with a few
1 Roof Talk, 9 August 1940.
46 AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC
-ikey-people who have special qualities, special qualifica-
tions for promoting and maintaining Peace. Those who
<~re of such a higher spiritual stratum of human society
.are very well worth reaching by these dark forces.
As for the vast majority, they are only worth
touching ~n masse, as a crowd. A wave of objective
.evil may be dispersed over a crowd of people, anq
they will be receptive according to their receptivity
to these undesirable influences. The average in-
.dividual, even if he is a member of The Theosophical
:Society, is not generally worth bothering about one
way or another. They do not do anything particularly
lf'Ositive and aggressive. They are very good people
trying to do their best, working hard here, there and
·elsewhere, but the dark forces have not time to
bother with people unless they are in the nature of
being a driving power and can effectively attack in
the spirit of their own very active peacefulness these
.dark forces of war.
AUNIVERSAL AVICHI OF HUMANITY
Apart from their influence upon special people,
there is a general activity under their first object,
·namely, to establish a universal avichi of humanity
without distinction of race, class, caste, creed, sex,
colour, and so on ; and this is a very real principle,
despite the fact there is no specific organization for
the purpose, and under that principle they spray
-THE WORKING OF THE DARK FORCES 47
·OUt influences to intensify the weakness-aspect of
,humanity.
They do not believe ·that life is unfolding, but on
the contrary they have no interest whatever, so far as
they are concerned, in any attempt to unfold or ex-
.Pand life. They believe rather that life is contracting.
I remember talking to one of them who was tremen-
·dously obtuse in not being able to see the truth.
Talking to him one rather received the impression
that he was conferring a benefit in trying to retard
the evolutionary activity. They do not work in terms
.of any influences whatever of the higher planes, but
.only in terms of personalities restricted to the lower
mind. I asked Bishop Leadbeater as to this concep-
tion on their part, and he said that, so far as they are
concerned, there is a general idea that their work
.consists in the slowing down of life.
While they seek to plunge life into a condition of
avichi, it is not life itself but they who become plunged
after a time, when they have exhausted themselves,
into avichis of varying intensities according to the
measure of their intention under the Law of Cause and
Effect. Each has his own individual avichi that will
help him to recover from his madness, and gradually
enable him to emerge therefrom. He cannot in
the long run adversely affect life, but in the short run
he can, for life may be temporarily affected by the
forces of evil, and some living creatures may, under
48 AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC
the law appertaining to their respective evolutionary
processes, suffer the entry of forces into their beings
which will retard awhile their growth.
AVENUES OF ATTACK
I was thinking of various avenues through which it
is easier to make any little demarche, any little attack
that it is worth while for them to make in any par-
ticularly suitable case.
What are the weaknesses which in each of us can be·
most easily influenced, intensified, and often twisted
and distorted ?
Eight weaknesses occur to me as generally preva-
lent, and especially needing watchfulness lest in various.
subtle ways they begin to produce a breach in the
fortifications of consciousness.
Sex : Their main manceuvring, I think, is round
about the whole aspect of sex, so extraordinarily and·
adversely affecting the whole world. Sex in its reality
is one of the most precious gifts of God, revealing to
us both His nature and our own as substantially one
with His. It is the great link between God and man
and the intimation to man of his Divinity. Sexual!
indulgence, sexual ugliness, sexual irreverence, are
fields in which the forces of evil find themselves par-
ticularly at home.
The moment there is any degradation of sex,
even to the smallest extent, such as there is at the
-THE WORKING OF THE DARK FORCES 49
!present time, it is a blasphemy no less terrible than it
would be were the Blessed Sacrament to be hurled
·On to the ground and trampled underfoot.
Sex degradation in thought and emotion, and equally,
.of course, in physical action, is one of the gravest of
crimes, and the accumulation of blasphemies in that
particular region is, to a large extent, responsible not only
for this war but for the war that preceded it. We must
go beyond the outer circumstances of the war, as we
know them, into the inner circumstances, and, among
all the causes, I have certainly been able to feel no
more potent a cause for war than the degradation of
sex so extraordinarily prevalent throughout the world,
and against which we can only guard ourselves by
.unfailing understanding of the real intent of the
·sublime force.
. Pride : Next to sex I should place pride. Not that
jt matters how you take one particular avenue or
another, when it comes to the susceptibility of the
jndividual. I place pride next, for, with all its permu-
.tations and· combinations, it affords a very happy
hunting-ground for any individual on the dark side of
·life. One perceives in any individual person a base
pride which is selfish and a noble pride which is
selfless. But I do not think I have ever encountered
·in any human being, and I have met many human
.beings you would not like to encounter, the colossal
1
pride which at all events a senior member of the dark
4
so AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC
forces poss~sses. His aloofness, his condition of cold.
and harsh certainty, his calculating arrogance, his.
dominating forcefulness; would have to be seen or
·felt in order to.be b~Ueved. Thus, because of their
own pride, they are able to accentuate pride in those.
who tend to be slaves to pride ; and the result is an
intensification of separativeness, which is, of course,.
their objective.
[ am perfectly prepared to say that while, of course,
we are all protected from these particular personages,.
as one must call them, still if one has any purpose in.
endeavouring to face them, one can really only face.
them effectively from a level of consciousness which.
they are unable to reach.
I do not think that anyone realizes what extra-
ordinarily ably directed asceticism can produce, for
every one of these greater personages-not, of course.-
all the lesser-is an ascetic, and could certainly, from
one point of view at least, be made a member of an.
occult body, for he would undoubtedly be able to·
fulfil some of the rules and regulations appropriate to
its membership. Very often they are vegetarians. More
often than not they entirely refrain from smoking or·
alcoholic liquor, and are abstemious in every possible
way, including regularity of life. They know perfectly
well that they cannot maintain their powers unless they
live rigidly, and, because they do live rigidly, they can
and do perform miracles-though no miracles of the.
/~~~~-~~
-THE WORKING OF THE D~RK ~O.~G~~..:.0-.:. 51
.•.:i . ~-~ •:;!:-'o>'' -~ . ''::
darkness can reach the l.e;vei·: a·ch!'eved by ~ miracles
of Light. Still up to a-:~~7f~!.~ poin~)Ki!,J;~~re almost
incomparable, and I certarnJ-x:n:iysetf'sho\JI~1 not like to
meet any one of those s~·~'ibr::rr:u::i~bi;(~ of the dark
forces without having that higher consciousness in re-
serve wherewith to overcome them.
I have been more than once concerned with this
sort of being. I have rather a flair for it. Sometimes
shocks or terrors come through the fascination these
people exert, and in that fascination a forgetfulness
of what one has to do. As serpents they fasci-
nate their prey, and if one descends to the level of
becoming a prey, then one can get the shock of his
life, as well as a little bit of terror. I have had ex-
periences of that kind which have taught me some
very unpleasant lessons. But most people need not
have any fear. It is something out of the ordinary
that does not come to one unless one has a particular
piece of work to do and is more or less ready to deal
with it through experience gained in past incarnations.
One must have entered into the kingdom of darkness
and therefore have had direct first-hand experience
of it. One cannot deal with these people unless one
knows them from within far more than as the result of
any examination one can make from without. I have
had a number of vivid experiences, and these have
been connected with manceuvrings and.'dealings with
the darker elements, but even in these manceuvrings
52 AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC
and dealings one is-, ot course, protected. In these
days whe.n .the dark forces have their own special in-
nings, we have all the rnore to do, but, of course, all
the more on which to rely.
So as the second point I place pride-the pride of
innumerable people, expressed in innumerable ways,
the pride which ever comes before a fall. In this case
the pride of the world has in a measure resulted in
the fall of the world, as we see it fallen at the present
time. I am, of course, referring to that selfish pride
that engenders the sense of superiority-superiority of
power, of race, of nation, of faith, of caste or class.
Where this sense of superiority is, howsoever express-
ed, there are the seeds of war, for it flouts the truth
of the Universal Brotherhood of Life. The dark forces
can effect many breaches in this Brotherhood with the
aid of the treachery of pride from within the gates
of the human individual.
Temper : So many elements that are considered as
temperamental have temper as their basis, temper
with its ringing of the changes between the extreme
of hatred and cruelty and that almost universal
irritability which too often is the trickle of a
tiny stream which may become an uncontrollable
torrent.
Here again, temper is a happy hunting-ground for
the forces of darkness. We must not permit it, for it
is a shadow of worse things to come. It is a
-THE WORKING OF THE DARK FORCES 53
breeding-ground for darkness, and we need to beware
of it, so insidious it is.
Not that I should suggest that you should fight it.
It only becomes intensified through being fought.
But turn your backs upon irritability. Go away from
it. Treat it lightly without giving it an atom of your
power in any way. If you feel a bit of irritability coming
upon you, whether justified or not does not matter,
then you must go and be alone a little time. You must
not spread the disease abroad among your fellows.
The dark brethren like those tiny trickles. You can
be so easily affected by a drop more, and so on and
on, until at last the stream preaks loose with the force
of a raging torrent.
If you wish to analyse yourselves as to whether you
have a little too much of temper, as to whether the
prevailing strain is finding its expression in a little tem-
per, if there is too much temper fever, you will know
it by a certain hardness about yourself which may in-
volve pride and all manner of things. There may be
a certain self-assurance, a certain self-satisfaction, a
certain intolerance of other people whom you do not
happen to recognize as your superior officers. Prob-
ably your temper fever is 99.4°. If you find the
hardness coming, take a soothing antidote. If you
know someone who is extremely equable, have a little
dose of him or her, and redouble, even if only artifi-
cially, your niceness to everybody.
54 AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC
Also catch up with your irritabilities. Gird up your
loins to apologize verbally-it does not take nearly so
much courage to apologize in writing-to those who
irritate you and with whom you feel a justification for
irritability. Say, "I am so sorry." Make the amende
honorable, if you are at all irritable, as far as you can
if the mischief has been done. Do it by word of
mouth. Be prolific in your apologies.
Prejudices: Prejudices are always ignorances, and
ignorance is the green signal for the advance of the
dark forces, just as wisdom, over which they cannot
prevail, is the red signal against which they are im-
potent to move, and which they constantly have
to obey.
We should root out of ourselves any prejudice,
whether racial, religious, communal, or of any other
kind. There is not one of us who has not a prejudice or
two-many of us are bundles of prejudices in every
department of life-and these prejudices we some-
times exalt into and worship as principles, forgetting
that they are not deep convictions but only prejudices.
There are none of us who have many real principles
at our disposal, but there are many of us who have
prejudices, and there are many jackdaws of prejudice
strutting about in the peacock feathers of wisdom.
Prejudice is one of the most dangerous of ways giving
easier access to the darker brethren. Let us beware
of falling a victim to its weakness, for prejudice may
-THE WORKING OF THE DARK FORCES 55
be the beginning of that lack of understanding which
soon becomes contempt-one of the great allies
.of darkness.
Greed : Whether an individual is physically greedy,
.emotionally greedy, mentally greedy, or greedy in
any other way, there is an absence of balance, an
.absence of self-control. Where there is such an
.absence of balance, we find an easy target for the
forces of darkness. Whether a man be greedy for
food, or for excitement, or for power, or for money,
or for any other form of satisfaction of one or more
of the senses, he is, therefore, essentially weak and
.liable to catch the disease of darkness.
Fortunately, the average individual, a category to
which most of us belong, can be as greedy as he
,likes and still be safe from attack. The dark forces
are looking for people of distinction who still have
these weaknesses lurking in their consciousness. The
average individual, even if he has one or more of
such weaknesses, has them only mildly, and on the
whole leads a sensible and selfless life. He is thus
.outside the sphere of influence of these evil forces,
.and need not bother about them, provided he tries to
lead a kindly and understanding life. Such a life
makes him impregnable to all malefic influences, even
though here and there his armour may be weak.
But there is need to be on guard where there is any
.tendency to excess, to extravagance.
56 AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC.
Cruelty : Cruelty really embodies and is embodied
in all the other weaknesses. I was thinking to myself
when I went out for a drive how rotten is our system
of education which provides for the development of
the mind and not for the development of the emo-
tions. As I was moving at my usual slow speed of
twenty miles an hour along the Marina, I dreamed of
a golden age of education when we should not be
mind-ridden, but should place first the education
of the emotions. And I thought, had I a son or a.
daughter, to such an enlightened school I would send
that child.
Then I drove from the Marina into those streets.
where I might contact the crowds, and there were
so many instances of cruelty before my eyes on the
part of the drivers, and other innumerable acts of
cruelty going on, I said to myself: " How these acts
must retard India's growth ! " There is cruelty every-
where. If only in an educational institution gracious-
ness, generosity, kindliness, reverence and all the
most beautiful virtues were taught. and less these
present subjects of the curriculum which, in my
judgment, from many years' experience, I unhesita-
tingly say are so harmful and do so· much more harm
on the whole than they do good, if only we could
.have a real school, though it will not come in my
time, we might change the face of the sorrowing:
globe. If we had right education over the world, we
· -THE WORKING OF THE DARK FORCES ST
should change the world. Only unfortunately we are
mind-dominated, we are book-dominated, we are·
dominated by criticism of various· kinds, so that
we have lost all our capacity to live a bookless.
simple life.
You may say that I am putting the whole matter in
an exaggerated manner, but it is better to exagger-
ate when there is so much exaggeration on the
other side.
The kind of people we ought to be and to have to
do with are nice people whom it is a pleasure to be
with. We do not particularly need clever people.
I know I am much nearer to the Master when I have
round about me a gracious, a pleasant and an under-
standing soul than when I have round about me per-
haps an individual with the keenest possible mind, for
it so often happens that while it is true that the emo-
tions become hardened because they are neglected
in favour of the mind, equally true is it that the mind
becomes narrow and cold because of its divorce from
the emotions.
I feel very 1 much that we do not pay sufficient
attention to the graciousnesses of life. Such inatten-
tion is indeed a happy hunting-ground for the dark
forces. Fortunately we have Kalakshetra in connection
with the Besant Theosophical School. I do feel we
are helping the atmbsphere of our School by the
work of Kalakshetra. I largely place my trust in~
58 AN ADVENTURE IN MAGIC
Kalakshetra for the future, and I hope Kalakshetra will
more and more influence the School.
Ugliness : This quality of ugliness was spoken of by
a greater Teacher. There is too much of ugliness in
our lives.
Uglin~ss is one of the happy hunting-grounds for
the dark forces-ugliness of all kinds, of dress, of
gesture, of movement-wherever you have ugliness
you have a channel for evil.
In times such as these the dark forces are alert to
find, in the key-people here and there who are sup-
remely worth reaching, inlets for their devitalizing
activities.
They would cause the avichi-fication of life in every
kingdom of nature. But 'though they may at partic-
ular times hinder the great evolutionary tide, even
to the extent of causing great catastrophes, as in the
case of Atlantis and of the present World War, evolu-
tion cannot be thwarted for long, nor any living crea-
ture in it. And in the long run the forces of darkness
and of evil hasten evolution
Depression : How difficult it is in these times of
storm to avoid the confusion; the indecision that leads
to depression !
Depression may come last in this enumeration, but
it might very well have come first, for it is so universal,
and does so much harm. I hardly think any disease
is worse than that of depression, for it lowers the
-THE WORKING OF THE DARK FORCES 59
vitality to an extraordinary extent, renders the indi-
vidual instantly liable to influence from the dark forces,
and in addition is one of the grosser forms of selfish-
ness. If we must be depressed, we must try to
isolate ourselves during the attack, so as to guard our
surroundings as best we can from infection. You only
have to read in Bishop Leadbeater's books about
depression and also in At the Feet of the Master, to
know what a happy hunting-ground is depression for
the forces of evil. Its antidote is, of .course, courage
.and a realization of the fact that the Law of Love
.reigns everywhere, eve!"' though it must observe the
Law of Cause and Effect.
Even in so doing, it honours Love. But we are,
as yet, too ignorant to know this, and there is prob-
ably not one of us who does not from time to time
suffer from the ignorance ot depression.
Still, let us recognize it for what it is, and do our
:best to place by its side a virile knowledge of the
wisdom that is Truth, so that more and more there
may be less and less room for depression to have
access to any part of our consciousness.
AN ADVENTURE OF THE NIGHT-THE
FIRE-PILLAR MOTIF 1
THE other night I found myself trying to enter into,
the spirit of the dictators of Europe-the Mussolinis,
the Hitlers, and, is it permissible to add, the Stalins.
I tried to see how they are going to disentangle them-
selves from the confusion and muddle and less-ness
into which they have fallen, because, after all, their·
situation is produced by the fact that we are beginning
to become conscious of our Godhead. It is part of
our present stage of evolution that we should have
inklings, if only inklings, of the Godhead. It is now
that the Pendulum of Life begins to swing more
positively, perhaps, between the manhood, and all
that lies behind the manhood, and the Godhead and.
all that that Godhead is.
SPIRITUAL RETROGRADES
In the case of many of those who are thwarting·
the forward movement of the world, it is because,
1 Roof Talk, 28 June 1939.
-THE FIRE-PILLAR MOTIF 61
they are not able to swing their various pendula as
they should be swung, so that these tend to become
attracted by the less of the manhood rather than by
the More of the G~dhood. That produces a tendency
to a retrogression, a tendency to try to live over again,
even though in terms other than the ways in which it was
Jived some centuries or millennia ago, through the parti-
cular less-ness now being emphasized. I was trying to
enter into the spirit of attachment to the less on the
part of these dictators, so as to try to perceive how
they are going to escape from it sooner or later so
that they may move onwards to their Godhead.
These dictators are not the only people who are
entangled in the less. There are a great many people
who are so afflicted. But these dictators are in such a
position that their entanglement matters more to the
world than the entanglements of lesser folk who do
not much matter one way or another.
It is perfectly clear that they will have to go back
even further than they are going now. They will
.have to enter into greater less-nesses than they are
in at the present time. Reculer pour mieux sauter.
Each of us from time to time drops back in order to
make a greater spring forward, but eventually we all
have to take. that forward plunge. There is no
such thing as " eternal punishment " or " irretriev-
able damnation.'' These people will have to move
·onwards.
62 AN ADVENTURE OF THE NIGHT
But they must go backwards and backwards, and
make a fresh start from where were the first
beginnings of forces which led them stage by stage into
their present darkness. They must experience tem-
porary hells and avichis and exhaust in these their
evil Karma. This is the law, and there is no escape
from it. The less-ness they seek to impose upon the
world must recoil upon themselves, and therein must
they be imprisoned until release is due.
I have to do my duty in denouncing those who
retard the progress of evolution, and I do denounce
them and all their works. But that is not the whole
of my duty. I know another duty of helping them
where they are. It is not enough to denounce and to·
condemn. It is not enough to fight and to be ag-
gressive towards what you may conceive as thwarting,
the growth of life. These people are in the Universal
Brotherhood of all life as much as you and I. They
are more or less dead in that Brotherhood as we
arrogate to ourselves the thought that we are more
or less alive in it. At least let us hope we are more
alive than they are.
Some of us have the job of trying to help the
underdog whose colour is more dark than white, and
from time to time I have written of my excursions
into regions where these darker people live. My duty
is to help them, which is, of course, not incompatible
with denouncing them. We must be able to do two
-THE FIRE-PILLAR MOTIF 63
things at once : we must exhort and condemn,
sharply distinguishing between Right and wrong,
standing for the Right, as we know it through'our study
of Theosophy, and fighting for the Right. But that does
not preclude us from helping these people who have
gone astray. The more we help them the nearer
will come their reconciliation to the Light, and the
quicker will they return to the Pathway of more rapid
Forward Movement to Divinity.
The difficulty in the case of such people is that the
will to move forward is, I would almost say, dead. It
is certainly asleep, as it were, " drugged." They
have drugged themselves into an insensibility to the
Divinity of their will. What one has to do is to try,
as best one can, to get rid of the enslavement to
drugs which are largely self-administered. I am not
thinking of the physical plane or any physical-plane
drugs, but rather the drugs of a lust for power and a.
tremendous capacity for genuine self-deception. In-
deed when people are surrounded as they are by
darkness, and are guarded by their like from recovery,
for a messenger of the White Forces to penetrate
their environment is by no means easy. Every Theos-
ophist is a messenger of the White Forces. He is
Their representative, and in him as a member of
The Theosophical Society dwells somewhat of Their
Power. Only at times the obstacles seem to be
almost impenetrable.
AN ADVENTURE OF THE NIGHT
A LUCIFERIAN SADNESS
I have looked at these people one after another.
f have sometimes thought I perceived what might be
called a kind of Luciferian sadness about them, be-
·Cause of the insistent call, however little it may be
'heeded, of their own individual Divinities. Because
·of that there is a sense of imprisonment which per-
haps never comes to the surface in the waking con-
sciousness, a sense of defeatism, a sense of hopeless-
ness, a sense of despair, a feeling that nothing can
<retrieve the downfall which has been their lot.
Now I say to them, when I have the opportunity.
that nothing is irretrievable. No one can fall so lo~:
that he cannot rise to the uttermost heights. You
may have fallen low once. ·You may fall still lower.
But you cannot fall so far that you can never pick
yourself up and move onwards and upwards. If one
says these things with a tremendous sense of their
truth, with eyes burning with the sens: of the Reality
with which one is speaking, and with the deepest
sense also of complete understanding of them where
they are, and why they are where they are, and how
in some as yet indiscoverable way they will rein-
·-<:arnate, they will arise again, if one can stand by
their side and make that tremendous spiritual affirma-
tio~, it cannot be without result. If one will do that
·with all the power that one has, not calling upon the
.Elder Brethren-They know what They have to do
-THE FIRE-PILLAR MOTIF 65
.in these matters--but calling upon one's own highest
.Self and going with the power of that Self straight to
them, and with that light shining through every open-
ing, thr:ough every window of one's being, it cannot
be without its result.
Only you must have a tremendous sense of power.
You must not go with any sense of diffidence or mere
hope. You must not go wondering whether you are
.going to be successful. You must not go with a
.clouded intelligence. You must go in terms of your
Will, of your Monad, which shall be reflected as a
. roighty Act of Magic. That is the best any of us can
.do, and we Theosophists can do these things, because
·we know what the magic is. Anyone who is a real
student of Theosophy has at his disposal that magic.
Every great book on Theosophy explains to him the
magic, and he can find out how to use that magic
himself, how to make his own magic out of the
Eternal Magic.
One lets oneself go to the uttermost in circum-
·stances like these, of course, and always deliberately.
One would not do so normally with the ordinary
.everyday person, for it would not be worth while to
.do so. But when you have to deal with the front
rank of the brothers of the shadow, that is to say,
those who are especially equipped servants of the
darkness, then everything you can do is worth
while doing.
5
66 AN ADVENTURE OF THE NIGHf
The reason why most of our Theosophists do not
do it is because they are not strong enough-in fact
they are not allowed to do it. You must not fear
any reaction upon yourself. You must not hope that
there will be no reaction. If there is a reaction, you
must bear it alone. It is between you and your pa-
tients, as these people in fact are.
THE FIGHT BETWEEN ANGELS AND ANGELS-TO-BE
This work is entirely other than is described in:
A Guardian Wall of Will. It is something different
from the " Wall " conception. This is what you might
call the " Fire-Pillar Motif," in which you are all afire
with truth and with everything that makes for the·
evolutionary process. One can only hope that by
placing one's Fire-Pillar as near to these people as.
one can, gradually the armour with which they are
encircled will melt.
It is very wonderful to be alive in these days when
there are things to do that we may not be able to do
again for centuries. Lifetimes may pass before we:
are again face to face, as we are today, with the·
great conflict between Angels and demons who are
Angels-to-be. These are the great occasions, for no·
matter who you may be in outer physical form, you.
can do much if there is a deliberately and reasonably
trained will. When I say a " reasonably " trained
will, I mean the will that has been trained not to-
-THE FIRE-PILLAR MOTIF 67
be afraid. It does not necessarily follow that, if
occasionally you are subject to· physical fear, you
are therefore afraid on the inner planes. The physical
elemental, noticing something that it feels will cause
its disintegration, calls quickly to its occupant to
remedy the situation, and you find yourself in the
midst of this terror-stricken physical body, and you
may catch a glimpse of something that may falsely
have caused the fright. You then have to calm the
physical body rather than to add to its fears. Fortu-
nately on the other side there is no difficulty.
suppose I have come across more horrors and ghastly
spectacles than most people. but they do not worry
me on the other side. We have cases, on the other
hand, of people with extraordinary physical courage
down here who are very nervous on the other side.
Such people who are never sure of themselves have
great difficulty in facing the opposition that is the
preliminary to any real conflict with the forces of
darkness. " Let him that thinketh he standeth take
heed lest he fall." Even our beloved President-Mother
relates an experience where an inner-plane disaster had
its repercussion on the physical body. If that was the
experience of one so superior, what might not ours be?
CONCLUSION
The final conclusion that I feel needs to be em-
phasized by every single Theosophist and member of
68 AN ADVENTURE OF- THE NIGHT-THE FIRE-PilLAR MOTIF
The Theosophical Society, is that we have every reason
to understand far more than to criticize. We are so
prone, all of us, to find fault. We are so prone, all of
us, to defend ourselves against those who find fault
with us. It is small, petty, anti-Theosophical. Never mind
what crimes people may commit, what mistakes they
may make. They will have to suffer for them, but if
our relationship with them is centred in understanding,
all is bound to be well. Not that we should neces-
sarily refrain from condemning that which we feel is
against the law of progress, but it is always our duty
to appreciate and understand even when we may at
the same time say : " No, this is wrong. I shall work
against this for it is intolerable.'' As Arjunas it m,ay
be our duty to fight. As protagonists for Brother-
!'1ood, we have every duty to work, to fight, if need
be, for Brotherhood, against all those forces that seem
to be opposed to Brotherhood. But, within that duty,
it is ever our paramount duty to give to every one
from the lowest upwards ..our understanding. It is
through that understanding that we shall redeem our
fellow-man. It is through being understood that we
ourselves can flourish all the more.
AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING-
SADNESS ENTITIES 1
GOING about in regions of suffering and sadness,
as every member of our Theosophical Society does,
and many more besides, one comes across a peculiar
phenomenon that needs explanation. Our unhappi-
nesses, our sadnesses are very much more entities,
more creatures, than one realizes. I have been look-
ing at a whole series of sadnesses and unhappinesses,
and I find that each one is, as a matter of fact, a
creature, has its own individuality in a sense, is more
than a mere thought-form, and apparently can be
energized into some kind of a reality, independent,
and altogether of a very peculiar nature.
SUFFERING REMINDS US . . .
One sees quite clearly when one looks at a per-
son's sadness, unhappiness, fear, misery, loss, or any
pther sorrow, that each one of these is nothing less.
than an intimation to man that he is not yet God. If
you look at anyone suffering. of whatever nature that
1 Root Talk, 13 January 1939.
70 AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERit
suffering may be, you can almost hear that sufferir
shout aloud to the individual who is in the midst
it: "You are not yet God "-not in the sense '
beating him down with that assertion, but on the cor
trary with the sense of summoning him to realize th,
his work here is to become God. If only he will ur
derstand his sufferings. his troubles, his sorrows an
griefs, as best he can, to a certain extent at leas
then they will draw the Universal Life nearer to h
individual, distinct and separate life.
There are many helpers, I find, on the other sid,
who very especially endeavour to reinforce the call o
suffering, the call of sorrow, of loss, disaster, defeat
the call of any inhibition whatever, so that God whc
is man may remember his Divinity, and thus dispel tht
ignorance which all these things are.
We know that ignorance is indeed receding. In thE
mineral kingdom ignorance is less than in the king·
doms preceding it. In the vegetable kingdom ignor·
ance is less than in the mineral kingdom. In the animal
kingdom ignorance is less than in the vegetable king-
dom. In the human· kingdom ignorance is less than
in the animal kingdom. In the human kingdom itself
the " civilized '' man is less ignorant than the savage,
and the spirityal man is less ignorant than the civilize~
man. In the superhuman kingdoms ignorance is
~nown no more, though at every stage there is more.
Truth than in the stage before.
-SADNESS ENTITIES 71
The measure of ignorance is the measure of fitness
for advancement on the evolutionary way. But ig-
,norance is by no means merely that ignorance of the
mind, of so-called facts, which is the ignorance rec-
·ognized by the mind-enslaved man. There is ignor-
.ance on every plane of consciousness. The physical
body may be ignorant as to how to be graceful and
·dignified. The body of the feelings and the emotions
may be ignorant as to how to be reverent, friendly,
·Compassionate. The body of the mind may be ig-
.norant as to how to gain, assimilate and use experi-
ence. The body of the intuition may be ignorant as to
how to know Law amidst laws. Each of these bodies
may be ignorant as to how to be healthy.
WE CONFESS
Sadness, sorrow, despair, grief, loss, unhappiness,
defeat, disaster, pain, each of these is the declara-
tion and confession of self-the-man that he is not
yet Self-the-God. The declaration or confession
may be one of hopelessness and helplessness. It
may be a confession of rebellion. It may be one
of ignorance pure and simple. It may be one of
resignation. It may be one of challenge. It may be
just a confession without any conscious form. But it
is a confession. It is a declaration, it is a registration
of the fact that self-the-man is not yet Self-the-God,
.and that confession, that declaration exists on every
72 AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING
plane of nature in every kingdom of nature, whether·
on the part of a flower or a tree, of a rock or at
mountain, of an animal or a bird, or of a human be-
ing. The creatures everywhere declare their state,
ar:~d it is only by that constant reiteration that the Self
that is God definitely begins to awaken and to take:
charge, as it were, of the self that is man.
Throughout nature the confession rul')s. Some-
where, in some state of his consciousness, every
creature is saying when darkness overtakes him : " I
am not yet God." Somewhere a greatness in him is.
saying this, and is moving him ever onwards through
darkness after darkness towards that Light which
needs the darkness for its perfect knowing.
I felt that this could be one of the approaches to·
sorrow, grief and trouble everywhere : to make it
clear that it is, of course, ignorance, but to make it
also clear that it is the greatness in each individual
pointing out to the individual that he is, as it were,
lacking in Self-conscious Divinity, and that he must:
ceaselessly move on towards this Divinity along what-
ever lines may be congenial to him.
SUFFERING AS A BLESSING
Were there no sadness in life, there would be no·
peace. Were there no sorrow in life, there would
be no power. Were there no despair in life, there:
would be no courage. Were there no grief in life,
-SADNESS ENTITIES 73
there would be no understanding. Were there no
loss in life, there would be no discovery. Were
there no unhappiness in life, there would be no com-
passion. Were there no defeat in life, there would
be no victory. Were there no disaster in life, there
would be no steadfastness. Were there no pain in
life, there would be no health. Were there no fear
in life, there would be no humility.
Each suffering is at all times a blessing disguised
by ignorance into looking like a curse. As the ignor-
ance loses authority, the curse loses power. When
ignorance vanishes, the blessing stands unveiled,
revealed.
WHY SUFFERING ?
But it is more interesting when you see these
things as a picture before you, and I should like to
be able to describe it so that you would really under-
stand it, for then you would perceive that never did man
grow less by suffering, nor any other creature.of God.
Though death may intervene, there is never any
loss, even though there may be an appearance of
hopelessness or helplessness. There is nothing in the
world that has not its saving grace. That is the sheet-
anchor of our safety-that everything has its saving
grace, and that if we can discover that saving grace,
then we are on the road to utilize to the full the
form in which our ignorance is expressing itself.
74 AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING
Each suffering is a sign of the divorce of the Uni-
versal Brotherhood of all Life from the separate
individuality of one life. Once the two are merged,
all suffering disappears, but not until then. It is the
divorce between the Universal and the individual
which is expressed in terms of suffering.
We may ask, as we do sometimes ask, why is
suffering permitted in the universe ; could we not
have a universe without any suffering ? So far as I
am concerned, I have not yet had time or the power
to draw up a plan for such a universe ! I am not
prepared to say how one could have a universe
beginning in unconsciousness and ending with Self-
consciousness into which there would not enter the
less, and if that enters, everything else enters too.
While the universal is divorced from the individual,
God is reviled, and His rule is denounced as unjust.
ln the hearts of the revilers He is dethroned, and
man's ignorance is sought to be enthroned as a
usurper. Man says he has but his reason as his guide,
and so causes it to perform all the functions of his
consciousness. He forgets the guide of faith and
faithfulness. He forgets the guide of humility and
reverence. He forgets the guide of memory and
remembrance. He forgets that he is God and only
knows that he is man.
As the Universal Brotherhood of all Life approaches
the separate individuality of one life, as the separate
-SADNESS ENTITIES 75
·individuality of one life draws near to the Universal
Brotherhood of all Life, not by losing its individuality
but by exalting it, so does all suffering gradually enter
:into the understanding of an ever-widening con-
sciousness. The birth of man into the Way of his Divinity
necessarily involves his baptism and confirmation in the
power to move on that way with increasing speed.
From time to time he needs the encouragement of a
transfiguration, and so fortified he begins to tread the
Way of Crucifixion, which tells him, often in terms
of agonizing separateness, that he is still man and
has yet to become God. He needs the encourage-
ment of a transfiguration, so that thereby may be
glimpsed the goal while it remains invisible to ordinary
gaze. He needs the lash of God's Love which
.appears to lacerate, but in fact urges the individual
onwards. Through one crucifixion after another he
hegins to learn that each is in fact succeeded by a
.resurrection, that there is no hell of whatever nature
without its corresponding Heaven, though the Heaven
may not come to him in the same lifetime as the hell.
.HOW I MEET MY TROUBLES
I feel that while we cannot, any of us, be expected
•in the midst of an agony, in the midst of a tragedy,
:in the midst of a terrible sorrow to perceive in clarity
.its nature, it is natural that in our ignorance we should
.become overwhelmed by it ; at the same time if we
76 AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING
could prepare ourselves against the possibility, that
might help us when the trouble comes.
I speak here with caution, because I should not
like to suggest to any of you to use your imagination
in this respect, since so often the use of the imag-·
ination does much more harm than good. An indi-
vidual becomes so entangled in imagination that
his last state is worse than his. first. But I myself
like to use my imagination to face all things that.
might cause me agony, and then to imagine myself
in the midst of these things, calm, peaceful and
impersonal, and with somewhere a realization that.
there is no agony at all save the agony of my ig-
norance, the seat of all agony.
I should not like anyone to work along these Jines..
It is better perhaps to take things as they come or to
take the general Theosophical teaching to bolster you,
up and to fortify you. That is not enough for me..
I do not want to be rendered impotent, useless,
helpless by any form which my own partkular ig-
norance might take-sorrow, grief, or sense of loss..
I am well aware of my weaknesses and of my ignor-
ances, and I am particularly well aware, as all speakers.
and writers should be, that while we can preach,
marvellously, we do not always find ourselves able to·
practise to the heights of the marvellous.
Knowing these things, I use my own methods of ,
getting ready for anything which might come-not in.
-SADNESS ENTITIES 77
a spirit of depression, not in any spirit of gloom as
to the future, and surely not in any spirit of enslave-
ment, but in a spirit of looking in the face whatever
I think might overwhelm me, and saying to myself :
" Now, while the overwhelming event is not here, I
will picture everything and stand in the middle of it
like a rock." I have done it in connection with things
that actually have come up, and it helps me, but it
surely would not do for people who start imagining
and get into all kinds of conditions of agitation and
perspiration, not generating strength but only weak-
ness ; and we do not want people to be the slaves
of their weaknesses.
Of course, I may do this with regard to difficulties
that do not actually materialize at all. I do not think
there is any waste about this, for it is well to be
prepared for all emergencies-the likely and the
unlikely.
My ultimate concern is, of course, to try to serve
the Masters as best I can, causing Them as little in-
convenience as possible because of my personality, my
weaknesses, my ignorances. Since I am not yet God,
but am still man, since I cannot yet spell my self with
a large "S," but have to be content with spelling
my self with a small " s," I must do all I can to
minimize the effects of my lack of evolution, and so I
use the imagination to that end. I am trying to finish
with leading any particular life for myself. My life
78 AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING
must be Their life, and there is always the difficulty
that since I have to grow, expand, dispel little by little
my ignorance, I may be temporarily incapacitated
through a weakness, a foolishness, an ignorance,
perhaps through pride, and not merely through sor-
rows, losses, troubles.
OUR PITFALLS
There are plenty of pitfalls for us ignorant people,
and pride is one we have with us until we pass the
Fifth of the Great Initiations. If anyone says to me:
"I have not any pride," I will reply: "You are
either wrong, my friend, or you are a Master. You'
may choose whichever you think to be more true."
I do not think it is possible to be without pride, but
we may consider to what extent it dominates, to what
extent it makes us certain we are right, gives us a
sense of superiority. While we have that round about
us, we have a major ignorance. So I try to use my
imagination to create a picture of wisdom and courage
where ordinarily there would be ignorance and
failure.
TILL WE REMEMBER
The great episodes of the Birth, Baptism, Trans-
figuration, Crucifixion-Resurrection, each a rung on
the ladder of life which leads us to that Ascension ·
which is r.~ot, of course, a place far off but an attitude,
-SADNESS ENTITIES 79•
can be brought near to us in somewhat of their glory,
and can help to change us, as we use the imag--
ination. I feel that we can, even here and now, make·
very much more use of that splendid Way of the Cross
than we do, because it represents a totality of any
experience-the birth of it, the power of it, the light
of it, the depth, the heaven, the universality of it, all the
great stages. If those of us who believe in these great
episodes have the insight to perceive an ascension in
every suffering, even if we cannot grasp it fully, we
shall exalt suffering into peace and so cease to have
concern with it.
One sees these sadness and pain creatures, and all·
the other creature-messengers of God, speaking their
word of the Love of God, and one feels that there is
a need for a crusade in every land to make clear
some of these realities which are above the emotions,
above the mind, which dwell in the regions of Law, in.
the regions of God that are Law, Light and Love. J,
am perfectly certain that there is need everywhere
for the stimulation of a consciousness which has had•
so little of all that could be given to it. We want to
stir every aspect of consciousness, but I cannot help·
feeling that there can be a response on the part
of the finest types throughout the world, especially
in these times, to the consciousness which we know
in terms of Buddhi, and even to the consciousness
we know in terms of Nirvana. We have all these-
:80 AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING
consciousnesses in us. We do not have to create them
.as if they were not already there. We have every
·consciousness in us in seed. It is even more than
that in the case of some of us, and if in terms of Buddhi
we knock at the door of Buddhi in our audiences,
.in our friends, there must be a response, even
though it be not registered. !t is the same with the
Nirvanic consciousness. Even though we may say
that we know nothing about the Buddhic or the
Nirvanic consciousness, that we have not had any
.contact with them, we can at least read and attempt
to understand, and through this attempt we shall
.obtain a picture and make that picture living.
That is part of the real value of Theosophy-to
·quicken in people that which will illumine other aspects
-of consciousness which may already be alive and stir-
•ring. It is all part really of the Yoga of Remembrance,
the Yoga of the Remembrance of the Whole by the
part, of the Many by the one, however you wish to
define the Whole or the Many. It is remembrance
that we are always wanting, needing. There is so
much Wholeness about us, so much Manyness about
us.. We are so much universes no less than worlds
that there are times when the larger aspect in us must
manifest.
Suppose you and I do begin to remember the
,nature of the larger consciousness, not only in ourselves
;but in all life, every kingdom of life ; if we have that
-SADNESS ENTITIES 81
memory, of course if not in. perfection, then into the
midst of sorrow, pain and trouble, we shall be able to
pour our serenity and joyousness even though it may
be difficult, even though we may half feel we are
pretending. I believe in pretence, not in pretence
that deceives people to their injury, but in pretence
that anticipates glory. If in the midst of today's
.sorrow I can pretend to be serene and happy and
.give ~appiness, that is fine, even if I am not serene
.and happy, and know that I am not. You can never
.live a lie when you are aspiring towards truth.
But even if there is what the world would call an
•insincerity, the insincerity is only of the form, and
-even that is gradually. dissipating. There is sincerity
.of the life because you have hold of the real. You
.know the real is there, you know what the real has
to be in you, and you stir it to expression somehow or
.other until you find, perhaps, that you do not pretend
.any more. Very well, be satisfied. You have done
your job as best you could and, to paraphrase, it is
better to have pretended a reality and then to have
had to give it up than never to have pretended a
.reality at all. If you go on sincerely pretending,
then the pretence finally drops away, and the reality,
.because it is full of life, begins to exercise its kingship
.over you who are so intent on reality.
. Every sadness, every sorrow, every despair, every
!9rief, evety loss, every unhappiness, every defeat,
6
82 AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING
every disaster, every pain, every fear, is for Remem-
brance, and as time passes, Remembrance is stirred
into activity, so that at last there can be no sadness,.
no sorrow, no despair, no grief, no loss, no unhappi-
ness, no defeat, no disaster, no fear, no pain, no less,
-because we REMEMBER.
HOW TO HELP OTHERS
And in the midst of all these, as they hold sway over
those of us in whom Remembrance is not yet awake,.
we remain serene, joyous, happy, not in a spirit of
indifference, not in any spirit of callousness, but in a
deep intensity of striving after Remembrance, that we
may seek to awaken it. We sympathize, we feel deep
compassion and understanding. We enter into the
unhappiness of our friends. But our sympathy is.
full of courage and of peace ; our compassion and
understanding are full of power. And we strive to·
enter into the unhappiness of our friends with the
oriflamme of Remembrance streaming in front of us,
so that it flies above us as the Symbol of that Vic-
tory of Life over Death which only waits the final.
defeat of ignorance for the celebration of its triumph.
From time to time Isee in my mind's eye this great
flag, this oriflamme of victory, preceding me as I enter
into the self home of another, and I establish that flag,
there and it waves over both of us, me in my seren-·
ity and him in his desperation, and between us the.
-SADNESS ENTITIES 83
desperation is resolved. And at least if nothing else
happens, he begins to hope, to take a little courage,
or perhaps to pretend.
I am always eager to come into contact with those
who suffer, because I have known my fair share of it.
Sometimes, as-many of us so often think, I think I have
had even more than my fair share. r know some-
thing about sorrow, and something about what I can
do with it, what I can make out of it, how some of
it cannot disturb me, and I like to feel that this sense
of peace, understanding, power, is of some use, that
I can take it into this, that or the other person and
flood his being with it. It is worth doing. It is done
for us. Let us do it for others.
I should, however, recommend to any who wish to
take the strength of their suffering into the service of
their friends, always, as they do it definitely, as a matter
of technique-though the word sounds rather cold,
official and formal-to invoke that Name which means
most to the individual who is in suffering, to invoke
that which means most to him, even if it be not the
name of an individual but something impersonal. We
draw no distinctions between principles and persons in
these matters.
Make your great invocation, and that will cause the
Person who means most to the individual to focus the
bright warmth of His attention upon the individual.
Sometimes the individual can do it for himself.
84 AN ADVENTURE IN SUFFERING-SADNESS ENTITIES
Sometimes it is easier for someone to do it for him.
Then with that Blessing, so much can be done, such pro-
gress can be made, such release can take place from
the less which is the suffering, the sorrow, the grief,
the weakness, whatever it may be, to help the individual
forward into a brighter and finer life, where, of course,
again suffering, difficulty, trouble of all kinds will come
to him. But now he is beginning to be fortified. The
Universal Brotherhood of Life is gradually drawing near
to the separate individuality of himself. He ascends
into a state of consciousness whereby he conjoins the
individuality of one life with the Universality of all Life.
losing himself he finds his Self. He does not be-
come less, but more. The dewdrop which slips into
the shining sea becomes glorified with the sea's vast
majesty, remains a dewdrop but shines with all the
spirit of the limitless ocean wherein it loses its ignor-
ance and discove;s its truth, wherein t~e white light
of the All shines through the individual colour of the
one. No longer is the individual colour, the indi-
vidual note, the individual form, alone. They know
their Father which is in Heaven, and laud Him with
the sacrifice of their differences. The dewdrop slips
into the shining sea. It makes the sea richer. Itself
becomes richer. The dewdrop becomes glorified by
the sea and yet remains the dewdrop. The sea be-
comes glorified by the dewdrop, even though the
sea remains the sea.
AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA-
THE SYMBOLS IN HEALING 1
THE first point to realize in thinking of the Symbols
in their healing power capacity is that each of the
Symbols is a Cosmic Formula, the nature of which it
is practically impossible for us to understand. Because
it is a formula of concentration, however infinitesimal,
as all formulee are, whether they are of this nature or
geometrical formulce of cosmic power, each Symbol
must necessarily have its potency, whether as a pre-
ventive or curative healing agent of disease.
We know as little about these Symbols as we do
about the mysterious Cosmic Rays which are being
studied in Bangalore and other places in India by
various scientists. But we have had certain hints as
a result of their research : There is an intensely close
relationship between us and the Rays. They come
from outside our galaxy, from far beyond the Milky
1 A talk to the Vigilance Group at Adyar, 28 February 1940. To a
group of fellow-adventurers, the author of The Lotus Fire elucidated
the use of the Seven Symbols set forth therein, and showed certain
physical objectifications which might be used as physical foci for
their power.
.86 AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA
Way, and they drench us, it would appear, with their
power and mystery. The Cosmic Rays are part and
parcel of our earth's life.
When I think of these various Symbols, I realize
that, in some mysterious way which I cannot compre-
hend, they too express a certain aspect of the galactic
life. That is the first point that has to be understood
by an individual who would use these Symbols effect-
ively. He must endeavour to approximate to a far
more universal state of consciousness than that which
he has known even at his highest levels. Before they
(:an be effectively used, there needs to be a Vigil
of Purification, so as to detach the individual from his
personal preoccupations, inclinations and interests.
There will be no effective use of these Symbols unless
it is possible to enter into their nature.
THE POINT
Take such a Symbol as the Point, which carries us
with its magic into great distances. You will not be
effective in using a Symbol of this kind unless you do
.all you can to enter into the spirit of it, to perceive
in some measure the tremendousness which it epito-
mizes. It must not mean to you just a little piece of
marble or stone-the objective focus of concentra-
tion. You must know how to handle these Symbols.
They must be very living Realities for you, so that
you do not come into touch or use them unless you
~THE SYMBOLS IN HEALING 87
are able to be in harmony with them, one after
.another.
Of course, to each Symbol is attached life on every
plane of nature. To each Symbol are attached certain
'Guardian Angels, certain types of denizens of the
'Various kingdoms of nature, certain Lords of Living,
:so that each is surrounded by courtiers and has its
.own kingdom.
With feet dedicated, hands dedicated, head and
'heart dedicated, you must, for example, become a
channel for the Point and for the certainty that that
which pours through the objective Point will be as
pure as you are able to make it. It will receive its
own vibrations out of the innumerable vibrations
.around us. It will issue them forth.
The Point has no stone which represents it. In
.The Lotus Fire I speak of the " Unknown Stone."
But here I have chosen a little marble or crystal stone 1
which acts on behalf of that Unknown Stone, which
was once known but is now lost.
The Point is a fundamental stone, and it should
.approach all that is fundamental, that is to say, all
that is intense and constant, so far as disease is con-
cerned. When you place it to your forehead, if that
be your mode of exit for force-each person's mode
1 The Point may be made objective either in a small pure circular
crystal, or in a small globe of marble with no streaks in it but per-
fectly white, or in a smooth perfectly pure white stone. All the
:Symbols are inset in gold or gilded silver that they may be handled.
88 AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA.
of exit differs-·-through that you send forth streams.
of energy into deep-rooted and constant disease, dis-
eases which have settled down to their destructive work,
so that at least you may set up the vibrations of
health, of ease amidst the vibrations of dis-ease.
Unless your head and your body are ready for that
channelship, you are likely to do yourself considerably
more harm than good.
If the Point is to be used at all, it should be usedi
where deep therapy is indicated.
So far as I myself am concerned, I should only
feel .justified in using the Point for a deep-seated
disease, and if I felt it my duty to use it, I should
use it via the forehead through which I generally do
my healing work. Some people will work through
the heart or other centres, but I should find myself
most rhythmic in working through the forehead.
Where a disease has taken up its residence 1n an
individual and is steadily engaged upon its destructive
work, the Point may be used if one intuits a comparative
sense of certainty that absolution for the Karma of
the disease is available to the individual and will
be released through the use of the Symbol. We
must work with the Law and not in ignorance df
the Law.
The Point is the Alpha and the Omega, the Begin-
ning and the End, the Origin and the Consummation
of Life. It is the Birth and the Ascension and all
--THE SYMBOLS IN HEALING 89-'
that lies between. After evolution emerges into the
Lotus, it 1s as if it folded its achievements into this
Point which we only call a " Point " because we have
no other words with which to describe it. This Point
with all its particulars and its minutice is a Macrocosm.
and no less a microcosm. So we can look into it as.
through the normal end of a telescope and perceive
its immensity, as we can look at an immense object
with telescope reversed and perceive its smallness,.
and both are the same.
THE WEB THAT IS THE WOMB
Now we come to what I call in The Lotus Fire the,
Web that is the Womb, which we typify here by
an opal.1 (A real genuine fire-opal is most intense
in its capacity.) It is, as it were, the Point incarnated,.
and forming the matrix of the incarnation-to-be. One,
would use it for creative purposes-in therapy for
the creation of fresh tissue, for blood increase and
purification. It is for repair generally and especially·
for nerve repair, and all the type of therapy which
is in the nature of creative process.
The Point scintillates into, extends into, and forms.
the Womb which is the first birthing of the evolutionary
process.
1 The Web that is the Womb may be objectified either in an opat
composed of many colours or in a matrix which is filled by smalL
fragments of all kinds of precious stones.
'90 AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA
'THE LINE
Out of the Web that is the Womb, is given birth
the Law, as it may be called, of the Universe-to-
:be, the Yardstick, the Divine Measure. That is the
line which is in fact curved, even though it does not
appear to be so, for in this particular form of Yoga,
•nothing is straight, everything is curved.
When the Line is used in terms of therapy it is a
iLaw-restorer. Disease is unlawful, save as it is
necessary to make a balance between the breaking
and the restoration of Law. We use these Symbols
to restore Law and Order, to cause disordered func-
tions to resume their natural course, inducing healthy
•rather than disruptive vibrations. The Line is composed
of little tiny diamonds,1 which varying in size suggest
·the idea of curvature. The diamond is the purest
·of stones and is expressive of the Will of the First
Ray which, we may say, is the Law-giving Ray.
THE GLOBE
This next Symbol is the Universe measured by the
Yardstick. We use this as a Guardian Wall. In
thinking of the use of these Symbols, I am not merely
·thinking of individuals but of spaces, of places. This
Symbol of the Circle-Globe can be used as a
l The Vertical Line should be objectified in a sligthly, but only
·very slightly, curved line composed of very small diamonds. This
·line of diamonds is repeated in the next two Symbols.
-THE SYMBOLS IN HEALING 91
Guardian Wall over large spaces. It could be pro-
jected around Adyar, for example, to protect Adyar.
You could use it to localize a disease, to prevent the
.expansion of a disease-disturbed area, and to guard
against infection either in the individual body or in
the case of an epidemic. It represents the Guardian
Wall of the Will with its various appropriate stones.1
THE CROSS
But this Symbol has to be fulfilled by the next Sym-
bol-the Symbol of the Cross.~ There we have added
·the Horizontal Line which is the Line of Peace that
soothes, the Line that calms, a peaceful centre amidst
,disease-tossed surroundings. If one knew how to
.use it, it would be the anaesthetic Line which would
tbe aided by the Circle and the Vertical Line. But
.it is not only a Horizontal Line. It evokes a Cross,
and the Cross is a Symbol of that which is growing,
.it is a Symbol of the movement of the Evolutionary
Process. The Cross is the reconciliation, the har-
1
.monization, between disease and health. It is the
purpose of them both. So it has a particular value,
:in the first place giving strength, and in the second
place making use of the disease for the sake of
1 The Circle may be objectified in a Circle of alternating yellow
·topaz and green jade fragments in the vertical centre of which is
the diamond Line as in the previous Symbol.
" The Horizontal Line should be composed of very small rubies
.curving by size gradation as does the Vertical Line of diamonds
which crosses it. Around the Cross is the Circle as set forth above.
92 AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA
growth. It is a general tonic and can be used for
~he permeation of the disease with growth-beneficial.
as directly opposed to growth-malignant.
When you are looking at an individual who has a
definite and positive disease, you know the disease·
is within the Law, is up to a certain point lawful, and
just as disease is necessary to the individual for his
evolutionary process, his unfoldment, so where you
may use other Symbols for specific purposes, you use
this particular Symbol as a great harmonizer and
strengthener, as representing the Law of Progressive
and Purposeful Adjustment. You can see how sensitive
you have to be with regard to these things, looking at
everything not from the standpoint taken by the outer
world, but from the real standpoint, so that you may
see an individual as he really is and know how the
adjustment process constantly takes place both through
ease and no less through disease. In other words,
with the Cross you crucify, you adjust, in the
certain knowledge that the resurrection must follow as
the inevitable consequence of the cruCifixion. They
are one and the same as treated in our Theosophical
literature. Crucifixion precedes and must be followed
by resurrection, whether it be the small ones we
encounter every day, or the tremendous crucifixions,
such as only Christs have encountered.
Another way· of using this particular Symbol-the
Cross-is to evoke the gifts of disease, because there
-THE SYMBOLS IN HEALING 9.,.
,)
is not a single disease which is not a friend bearin!:J
.gifts. As we none of us quite realize this fact, the
disease tends to last longer, insisting upon our looking
it in the face and seeing what it has in its hands of
offering. But we are so afraid of disease, and are so
fond of our physical bodies, and they are so fond of
themselves, that we do not look our diseases in the
face, and so they tend to become chronic, until we
do finally look them in the face and see what the
whole situation is about. If anyone has a chronic
disease, he might say : " I am rejecting the gifts the
disease is holding forth to me.'' This would help to
bring the gifts into perspective.
Of course, in the case of some diseases they must
remain chronic, despite all efforts, but even then we
might seek out their gifts and rejoice in these.
THE SVASTIKA
We come to the Svastika which is for the drench-
ing of the individual with impersonal vitality. It takes
no account of the person's disease, circumstances or
conditions. It is a tremendous generator of vitality.
This little Symbol 1 is entirely inadequate to express its
glory. Still it has a number of appropriate stones
1 The Symbol of the Svastika is objectified with very small pieces
of all kinds of precious stones. In the Symbol which the author uses
are embodied the nine sacred stones of India, set in their respective
relationships, the seven Ray stones, and a number of small fire-opals.
Tha Svastika is surrounded by the Circle mentioned under Circle-Globe.
94 AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA
to represent the great impersonal Vitalizer. It sets.
in motion the wheels of health through pure vitality.
And if you are on the Vitalizing Ray, then this be~·
comes tremendously potent in your hands. If you
belong to one or another of these Symbols and you
use the Symbol of your line, then your own potency
is immeasurably increased.
THE LOTUS
The last of our Symbols objectified i~ a representa-
tion of the Lotus with the Point inside it.1 This is what
we may call the Consummation Symbol. This Symbol
strengthens during the period of convalescence, and it
provides a very powerful fund of emergency power
upon which one can draw for the fighting of the crises.
of disease. It is especially useful to smooth the way for
a passing, a dying. It has a specific connection with.
everything which is of a consummation nature. It
takes you up into pinnacles. ~t gives you release.
If you have become a conqueror of disease, this wil~
put the crown upon your head of conquest. It is the·
consummation.
THE USE OF THE SYMBOLS
I am not asking anyone to use these Symbols,
for those who desire to use them must have their
t The Symbol of the Lotus is objectified either in a crystal or ir>
some form of a very pure white stone. The one used by the author
has a rather large round crystal set in a Lotus done in metal.
-THE SYMBOLS IN HEALING 95~
rbythm within them. But if this type of healing partic-
ularly appeals, the individual who uses them and the,
patient who is to receive benefit from them must, so
far as is possible, clear every obstruction out of
the way.
The user must himself have all possible purity in.
him, so that he may in all impersonality invoke the
Guardian Angels attached to each Symbol, that
They may be pleased to make the necessary connec-
tions. The healer should be constantly on the alert
not to do any projection of force himself, nor to·
use any of the Symbols for himself. He must be
positively passive, so as to enable each Symbol to·
do its appointed and appropriate work without one·
atom of interference from himself. Hands, feet and
head must be cleansed before a Symbol is used, so
that the user may interpose no hindrances.
So far as regards the patient, it is well that he·
should have a certain measure of faith, or at least no·
active opposition. If he can be talked to about the
essential meanings of the Symbols, the way for their·
curative effect may be made more smooth.
Application of the Force : Where possible, the·
healer can hold the Symbol near the centre of the.
disease. Where this is not possible, he should hold·
the Symbol (not put it on any table) at some little·
distance, and then constitute himself as an uncon-
scious channel. I think there is some advantage in,
'96 AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA
·the healer holding the Symbol. The main point is to
place the Symbol in juxtaposition to the patient at a
.distance of about three or four feet. As I have
stated, it can also be applied from that chakra which
is the natural exit of force for the healer, but you
;have to be very careful in using such a method as,
for example, the use of the forehead chakra might
.induce brain-storms unless you have self-control and
.are perfectly calm, a very difficult thing in these days.
Unless you are accustomed to silences far more than
to speech, you can use the Symbols but nothing much
·will happen.
Choose the Symbol as a Medicine : The Symbols
:must never be used as one, nor must They be used
.in succession. But each must be chosen as a medi-
·cine might be chosen to meet the requirements of
.individual cases.
This use of the Symbols is specifically for healing,
..and is not to be confused with their use for general
blessing and self-identification, as described on pages
·308, 364, 417, 491-2, 523-6, and other pages of
The Lotus Fire.
After having chosen the Symbol which you feel is
appropriate for the disease and the patient, use the
Symbol not merely once but perhaps a number of
·times. Different Symbols may be used in different
ways. Adyar is composed of all the Symbols, as a
·Centre dependent upon the Inner Centre of the world.
-THE SYMBOLS IN HEALING 97
'It therefore has the Point aspect, the Web that is the
Womb aspect, it has the divine, the u~iversal, Yard-
stick Aspect. It has the aspect of the protecting
Globe of Brotherhood. It has the Cross aspect. It
has the whirling Svastika aspect. It has also the Lotus
aspect. Whenever I am at work in any ceremoniat
way that connects me with Adyar, I can use a Symbol
as an appropriate concentration of force, as an ap-·
propriate formula.
Each Symbol must be used as a positive force, not
drawing away the impurity, but pouring in the purity,
so that the impure may gradually die through lack of
appropriate atmosphere. The impure must be starved
to death because of the penetrating advance of
the pure.
THE ATMOSPHERE OF THE SYMBOLS
It would be very necessary before one used the·
Symbols at all to be fairly conversant with the major
points given in The Lotus Fire, because one must.
have the atmosphere of the Symbols. They must
only be used when the person can recognize and
enter into the appropriate atmosphere of each
Symbol. I have been so much immersed in that
atmosphere with the aid of higher help that.
I can generally revive it ard bring it into the
perspective of my being when I desire so to do.
I can achieve this mainly by the use of a little
7
98 AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA
key which, as it were, opens the door to the at-
mosphere. That little key is Infinitude. How do I
obtain my sense of Infinitude ? Through the Line, for
that Line goes in my imagination into infinite distances.
It curves and curves and curves, and yet never be-
comes the Circle. Whether it is a Cosmic Circle, I
do not know. Whether Infinitude stops short some-
where, so to speak, I do not know, but Infinitude is a
truth for me, and my Line never comes back upon
.itself to form a Circle. Therefore I use it as a
Symbol of Infinitude, for in the prison of our finite-
ness we must have something finite to which to cling.
I know very well, so far as my spirit goes into
Infinitude, there are nothing but circles to be perceived
anywhere. These geometrical forms that seem straight
are an illusion. But I get my atmosphere by thinking
of the key of Infinitude which I fashion by projecting
my Line infinitely far, and then opening the door to
the atmosphere that projection produces. I feel tre-
mendously encouraged by these Cosmic Ray dis-
·coveries, because it is perfectly clear that while these
Rays come from outside our galaxy, may we not
think of them as coming out of Infinitude ? It is not
said that a Cosmic Ray starts from a certain station ·
and then comes down. We perhaps perceive its
.entry, but we do not know its origin.
If I can get hold of that atmosphere of unimagin-
able intangibility, then I can put my Symbol in the
-THE SYMBOLS IN HEALING 99
midst of it, so as to give it its proper vibrations. Then
one after another I can use them as they may
.be required.
FROM MEASUREMENT TO THE IMMEASURABLE
If we can think of these things and extricate our-
selves from the finite, we shall realize that we our-
selves are but intimations of Infinitude. Only so shall
we accomplish anything in the use of the Symbols.
Dnly we are so much centred on ourselves-there
is a peculiar sense of wanting this, that and the other
for ourselves, and disappointment when what we want
.is unobtainable-that we revolve in our own little
measures, and so being in a constant state of measure-
ment, we cannot contact the Immeasurable. If we
..can gradually extricate ourselves from measures-we
.none of us can do it perfectly-if we can find our-
:selves pouring forth into the Immeasurable, then we
.can come back with some fragrance and sense of the
Immeasurable and make our measures a little finer
than they have been.
.MANY STREAMS OF VITALITY
To each of these Symbols 1s its musical note, its
·fragrance, its form, its colour, its formula. We, too,
.are notes, forms, fragrances, colours, formulce. We
.are everything-Points, Web-Wombs, Lines, Circle-
Diobes, Crosses, Svastikas, Lotus-Flames. Perhaps
100 AN ADVENTURE IN SYMBOLIC YOGA
the whole value of this is not that we may be able to-
achieve so much of practical help, but rather at
least that our consciousnesses may become a little
stretched, so that we may become more cosmically
minded. If the Symbols can convey something of
their various permutations and combinations of vital.
life thus quickening our consciousnesses, we shall have
achieved something, even if we are unable as yet to
use them as material foci of force.
We have made a little beginning. I do not
pretend to be a yogi. But sometimes things pour
through a channel that will eventually be used for
service. All of this opens out vistas into which we,
can see further. Even brooding over these Symbols.
makes a difference in the atmosphere, as we can
clearly perceive.
AN ADVENTURE IN STUDY-IN TERMS
OF THE KINGLy WILL I
IT is not enough to study Theosophical literature.
It is the old story of the dominance of the mind and
the servitude of the individual to his mental body,
which is so marked a characteristic of the world at the
:present time. We are mind-driven and mind-ridden,
.and we refer everything to the arbitration and deci-
sion of the reason. It our reason approves, then we
.approve, and when we think of our conscience, we
think of it largely in terms of the reason. .
Now the mind is a subordinate official in the hier-
.archy of the individual, and it is most important for us
to realize this. A superordinate official is the will,
.and we pay, on the whole, comparatively little atten-
tion to the will, and so much attention all day long,
and especially in our studies, to the mind.
STUDY WITH THE WILL
If you were to ask the average person ; " Can you
il'ead The Secret Doctrine with your will ? " he would
think you were talking nonsense and would answer :
·" How can I read a book with my will or with my
1 Adyar, 11 June 1939.
102 AN ADVENTURE IN STUDY'
emotions? I must read with my mind." Yet what
benefit can we gain from a First·Ray book of the will
save as we study it with the will? We are lowering
The Secret Doctrine down into a subordinate position·
when we study it just with the mind. H. P. Blavatsky
did not claim The Secret Doctrine as hers, but as the
work of the Masters expressed through her. It is a•
will-production and should be examined in terms o"f
the will. Study the books that are emotion-produced'
with the emotions, the books that are mind-producedr
with the mind, but study books like The Secret Doctrine,
which are will-produced, with the will. We are so·
much enslaved by the mind ·that we cannot under-
stand what it must mean to study with the will. One·
of the secrets of The Secret Doctrine fathomed only
by the deep student is that in studying it you can do
without your mind altogether. The erudite student
does not know The Secret Doctrine. He does not
realize how much every phrase expresses power far·
more than it expresses mind. I am perfectly certain•
in the case of some of our major Scriptures that the
mind is the destroyer of our understanding of the~.
I am perfectly clear, so far as The Bhagavad Gita iS'
concerned, once we begin to S'tudy with the mind, we
are on the brink of confusion, because the Gita is an ex-·
pression of the will of God. It is a First-Ray Scripture,
just as the Bible is very much more a Second-Ray·
Scripture. Of course, the "understanding of those of
-IN TERMS OF THE KINGLY WILL 103
us who read The Bhagavad Gita only in translation
must be very dim. There must be many other great
Hindu Scriptures which can only be contacted with
the will.
EXPAND THROUGH THE KINGDOMS OF NATURE
No member of The Theosophical Society is ready for
deeper study until, and unless, he has a Theosophical
knowledge of the kingdoms of nature. He must
amplify and fulfil the First Object of The Theosophicat
Society by bringing within his ken a realization of what
is the brotherhood of the Mineral Kingdom, the Veget-
able Kingdom, the Animal Kingdom, the Human King-
dom. He must know something definite about these
kingdoms, not merely from the standpoint of actual'
information conveyed in Theosophical literature, but
also through his own individual expansion of conscious-
ness into the kingdom concerned.
We must be able to sit down by the sea or by the
side of a mountain, or near rocks, stones and earth,
and be able to project our spirit into them so that,
little by little, after many a trial and effort and
failure, we are able to enter into the spirit of the
rock, the sea, the earth, the mountain. Thus, apart
from our Theosophical knowledge (which is a very good
introduction to this expansion of consciousness), in,
addition to it, in fulfilment of it, we unify our con-
sciousness by a series of experiments with the
104 AN ADVENTURE IN STUDY
particular kingdom with which we happen to be for
the moment concerned.
CONTACT THE KINGS OF EACH KINGDOM
Especially should we seek to expand our con-
sciousness so that we enter into the spirit of the kings
·of each kingdom. For example, we can enter into
the spirit of the jewels of the Mineral Kingdom
-the ruby, sapphire, diamond, opal, emeraid,
.any precious stone which especially appeals to us.
There is nothing more delicate, nothing more unfold-
•ing and expanding, than to hold a precious jewel in
the hand, especially if the jewel has not been tam-
pered with by man by being put in some incon-
.gruous setting. If we can lose ourselves in some jewet
we hold in the palm of the hand, we can enter into
the spirit of the kingship of that kingdom, because
we are contacting a very King of the kingdom itself.
It is the same with the Vegetable Kingdom. Take
our Banyan tree which is far more spiritually evolved
than any other Banyan tree. This is natural when we
think of those great Personages who have gathered in
.its atmosphere. We can enter into the spirit of the
Vegetable Kingdom through that tree as we can enter
into the spirit of the Mineral Kingdom through a jewel.
The jewel, the tree, are an Open Sesame to the king-
doms to which they belong. We can do the same
with the Animal Kingdom.
-IN TERMS OF THE KINGLY WILL 105
"STUDY" vs. DOING
I have very strong objections to the word " Study "
·Course. It is a word of enslavement in the whole
·of our educational systems everywhere. The first
thing we have to do when we go into any school or
.college is to study something. It is far more im-
1portant to be there doing something. The doing
should not be the doing of the mind but the doing
·Of the hands, the doing of that which is practically
creative. The first thing a child should do is to
create, because he should remember the Godhead he
:·has known in the heaven world. Now more and more
:is the power and need of the human spirit beginning
to be realized through the wonderful example given
:by Madame Montessori.
I do feel, therefore, we should ask our members
·of The Theosophical Society to know their world-
not necessarily botanically or zoologically, but cer-
.tainly Theosophically. If they can add Botany and
:Zoology to their knowledge, so much the better,
but we must know essentials before we can rightly
;know the form.
•COMMUNE WITH THE VOICE OF THE SILENCE
But that is not all. It is not enough for the
:student during his earlier years in Theosophy to have
;these communions with the various kingdoms of
,nature, and obviously with the Human Kingdom no
106 AN ADVENTURE IN STUDY'
less. He ought also to have communion with the
voice of the Silence. If only we could commune·
with the voice of the Silence of growth, as it can-
be heard everywhere, though perhaps better at par-
ticular times or in particular moods. I am very much-
afraid, especially in India, where without exceptio~>;
everybody has been brought up in the western system
of education or has been subordinated to the whole
of the western system in his professional career, that
there are very few who can really commune with.
nature, who can understand what nature is, and can
hear the voice of the Silence of her growth.
We do not know much about the science of Silence,.
for we are always so busy doing something. We are
occupied the whole day long in rushing hither and
thither, in going from this place to that place, in read-
ing this or that, there is not enough time left for
being. However much we may read or know with.
the mind, that is little as compared with being, with·
the building of the Realities of Life into the Eternal
Self which we never lose, even when we enter into-
the heaven world. When we pass through the
valley of the shadow of death, the physical body dis-
integrates, and the etheric body, the astral body and
the mind body disintegrate sooner or later. Even
the higher mind body may disintegrate and, if the Theo-
sophical student has penetrated, during his life, into·
the depths of Theosophy and has not been content:
-IN TERMS OF THE KINGLY WILL 107
merely with superficialities, he will live in a heaven·
world beyond even the higher regions of the mind.
The mind, the emotions, the physical body will have
gone. It is the Eternal body we must learn to build
with the aid of mind, emotions and physical body, but
only with their aid.
I sometimes wonder how many members of The
Theosophical Society are building with the matter of
the Eternal their own eternal vehicles. We may have
a member who knows a great deal of Theosophy, can·
quote from the whole range of our classic literature,.
and yet his actual spiritual growth may be com--
paratively small.
THE GODHEAD OF EACH MUST CREATE HIMSELF
Theosophy is an admirable introduction to living,.
but it cannot be more than that, because each of us
must create his own Theosophy for himself. To each·
of us the world looks differently, just as each artist
will view the same tree differently from any other
artist. Each one of us is unique, is different, is a God·
in himself. It is nothing external, be it the Theos--
ophy of any kingdom of nature, which can suffice him
for his Self. It is his own Godhead that must create·
himself. While all these wonders outside him can·
knock upon his door, it is not that they may enter
inwards, but that they may awaken the wonder with-·
in, that wonder which is different from other wonders,
"108 AN ADVENTURE IN STUDY
that wonder which is infinitely to be cherished by each
individual, because he knows it is not the wonder of
anyone else, but is his peculiar and unique Divinity,
·even though it may be a part of the eternal and com-
plex Divinity which is outside and within him as well.
'WE WANT WILL AND EMOTION THEOSOPHY
Every member of The Theosophical Society living
·in Adyar or Madras should make it a point to con-
tact Adyar as part of his realization of Theosophy,
.and to commune with beautiful nature as we have
~beautiful nature in Adyar. It is difficult, for practi-
·cally every single one of us is mind-ridden. We are
·workers in terms of the mind. We are musicians,
.artists, scientists in terms of the mind. Whatever we
.may be, we are dominated by books. Who knows
whether, if the Alexandrian Library had been pre-
served, we would have grown as much as we have ?
Are not the books that are being produced in such
profusion on every possible subject, are they not giving
.us far worse indigestion than any indigestion we might
)have from the most indigestible food ? We read and
.read and read, and what do we know ? We can write
books, we can be very learned, we can make erudite
footnotes, but what is the value of it all ? We want
will books, emotion books. We have had enough
·of mind books. We want will and emotion. music,
.art. We want will and emotion Theosophy. We have
-IN TERMS OF THE KINGLY WILL 109
had enough of mind Theosophy. Not that we do
not need the mind, as important an aspect as any
other. But we are overflowing with our minds and
reaching nowhere. We need to rise above all the
servants of our Selves into our very SELVES them-
selves, so that we live from the Kingly Will and not
from the dwelling-places of the servants of the Wili.
AN ADVENTURE IN SOUND-MANTRAMS
·OF POWERl
·EVERY letter of every alphabet, and every word,
every syllable of every word, every exclamation, is a
mantram, that is to say, a nucleus, a centre, from
which force radiates. We must not imagine that the
only mantram is the official word OM. Everything is
.a mantram, everything is a power, every sound that is
made of whatever nature sends power outwards.
We cannot utter a sound without uttering a
·mantram for good or for ill. We release a unit of
.power which travels to Infinity.
At present, unfortunately, we know nothing about
this aspect of the Science of Force, or we should be
much more circumspect than we are.
Our speech would be more beautiful, our music
would lose much of the vulgarity it has acquired, our
drawings, our paintings, our sculpture, our Arts gener-
ally, would lose the crudity in which so many of them·
have been enveloped by the ignorant, had we some
acquaintance with the Science of Force, and especially
1 Roof Talk, 14 March 1941.
-MANTRAMS OF POWER 111
with the truth that words and sounds and colours and
·forms and fragrances are mantrams which create and
.destroy, which give beauty or ugliness, grace or
.disgrace, war or peace, according to our fashioning
.of them.
How potent is the Voice ! How potent is the Hand!
.How potent is the Imagination [ How potent is Thought,
.Feeling, Emotion, Action!
How potent indeed is Living ! For just as we
.are at all times receiving the force of innumerable
mantrams from the Infinite around us, so are we
sending forth mantrams into the surrounding Infinitude.
We must learn to understand this force and utilize
.it for good in every functioning of our being.
THE COMPOSITION OF MANTRAMS
Let us understand that every mantram is composed
-of matter, though not necessarily of physical matter
.as we know it.
Let us understand that this matter was created by
Ood, and is the substance of ourselves and of the
whole evolutionary process.
Let us understand it to be the Universal Substans
and Substance of evolutionary Life-the Material, the
Matter, out of which Forms are made, but not es-
sentially to be distinguished from the nature of Life
itself. We must not say that the substance of Life is
one thing and the substance of Form is another thing.
112 AN ADVENTURE IN SOUND·
They are one and the same thing, differently con-
stituted, the Form-matter being dependent upon the·
Life-matter. The Form-matter is a variation on the
Life-matter-shall we say a reflexion ?
THE ELECTRIFICATION OF CREATION
God created Life and Form in the sense of electri-·
fying them with His Perfect-ness.
To create is to electrify, I would say, not just to·
produce out of a supposed " no-thing." If one
tries to get back as far as one cal"l to ongms, one
feels there is this electrification, however we may
define Life.
And to electrify is to call from Like to Like.
The God-Spirit is everywhere. Perfect-ness is.
everywhere. But in God the Perfect-ness sings.
and thus singing calls to the Perfect-ness everywhere..
ln God Perfect-ness is awake and alive. The
Perfect-ness to which He calls is dumb and asleep.
Round about us, permeating us, is this Life-Form
Perfect-ness, is this Matter, is this Substans-Substance.
Out of it God " creates," electrifies, a stupendous.
Universe.
Out of it each one of us must try his hand at"
creation, at electrifying ,this living and infinitely·
potential Matter, Life-Matter, Life-Form.
We ourselves are " made " out of it. It has grown,
in us as we perceive ourselves to be.
-MANTRAMS OF POWER 113
God uttered a supreme mantram and electrified
Matter into an evolutionary Universe.
That is very literally true. These are the funda-
mental realities, and while I am putting it in a par-
ticular way, each one of you must put it in his own
particular way. Each one of us is a God, and his.
electrification of matter must be a different electri-·
fication from that of another. Each must electrify in.
his own way.
THE MAKING OF MANTRAMS
We must try our hands at mantrams. We must
take hold of and mould and fashion Matter with the
huge vocabulary of mantrams available to us in letters,
in words, in sounds, in phrases, in colours, in 'forms,
in fragrances. The mantrams are there for our using.
But we tend to use them lifelessly, negatively, and
not purposefully, positively, creatively.
What is a mantram ? 'It is a universe. It is a con-
centration, with, perhaps, special emphasis on one or
another of them, of the seven great Symbols given in
The Lotus Fire. Essentially it is the Point. But we can·
more easily manipulate it if we imagine it-how
creative is the Imagination, how finely mantram-en-
dowing with Life-as a Globe. Let us imagine it as
a globe of force, a globe filled with f<;>rce of the
nature of its being. A shining globe. A globe.
pulsating with Life, sparkling with Life.
8
'114 AN ADVENTURE IN SOUND
The Point (the Globe in-turned) and the Globe
(the Point out-turned) are the primary mantrams, are
·interchangeable and essentially identical. But only
when we have been mantram-makers for a long
.period of time are we able to function with the Point
aspect of the mantram rather than with the Globe
·aspect.
The Globe aspect is larger, so to say, and more
manageable by our clumsy creative apparatus-
dumsy as we begin to learn how to manipulate it
-than the Point aspect. If you can encompass the
idea of the Point as part of your being, and the Globe,
its extension, also as part of your being, you are on
the way to becoming an occultist. I do not feel at any
time that I can function with the Point aspect alone.
I am practically bound to have a Globe for the various
mantrams I may release. The Point conception is
much more difficult to understand, as the Nirvanic
consciousness is much more difficult to understand
than the Buddhic consciousness. The Nirvanic con-
ception is as the Point, though not quite ; the Buddhic
.conception is as the Globe, again not quite.
ALPHABETS OF GLOBES
Let us imagine each letter of our alphabet, each
word in our universe of words, each sound in our
alphabet of sounds, each colour in our alphabet of
colours, each fragrance in our alphabet of fragrances,
-MANTRAMS OF POWER 115
to be a Globe. But what kind of a Globe ? It is this
which we have to busy ourselves finding out, it being
understood that while each may have its own pri-
mordial Globe independent of the Globe conception
which we may assign to it, on the other hand each
one of us will in all probability have our own various
and distinct alphabets of Globes for each actual series
of mantrams.
We shall not be able to electrify as God electrifies.
We shall not be able to be all things to all " Men,"
to use the term I employ in The Lotus Fire to indicate
matter-individualities. We shall not yet be able to
be to each individuality-universe of Matter that which
it individually needs. But we shall be able to be a
thing to each-a thing largely impregnated with our
own individual " thing " whatever that " thing " may
be. So we shall endow each letter, each word, each
sound, each form, each colour, each fragrance, with
a Globe which has much of ourselves in it.
Let it be noted en passant that the wider our
-consciousness the more effective and true will be our
various Globes. If, for example, we have some
measure of the Nirvanic consciousness functioning in
us, our Globes will have something of the Nirvanic
" matter " functioning in them, and will thus be all the
:more true to the mantram which is necessarily com-
posed of all consciousness-elements, of whatever
rnature it may be.
116 AN ADVENTURE IN SOUN [)
But there will be mantrams in which some of the
higher elements of Consciousness are asleep as well as
some in which they are more or less active. Of
course, when we reflect or create a mantram, even
if it be the mantram of a Root Race, many of the
highest elements of consciousness must inevitably be
asleep.
FUNCTIONING DOWNWARDS OR UPWARDS
In jazz and in slang only the lowest elements of
consciousness function. The others are as it were
not there at all.
Notice the fact that jazz and slang deaden the·
higher consciousness elements in human and sub--
human beings, and tend to render a whole nation~
which is in the habit of using them insensitive to the
higher things of life. If a particular country is in the
habit of using jazz and slang in everyday life, that
country is to the measure of such usage deadened to the
higher Realities. Jazz and slang kill the higher life in.
the whole country, and leave room-nature abhorring
a vacuum__:_for all those elements which deaden and:
destroy life.
A mantram can under certain circumstances be
constructed either to function downwards or up--
wards, or clock-wise or anti-clock-wise ; or backwards.
or forwards. There is the Archetypal Mantram of
Sex, for example, which in its adaptations can either
-MANTRAMS OF POWER 117
exalt or degrade. It is essentially the difference
between the Svastika turning clock-wise and anti-
clock-wise.
I wonder how it is that some of our most earnest
students have not yet realized that the Svastika-if
it be real and not perverted-can only turn clock-
wise and that however you look upon it it is always
turning clock-wise. This is its magic and its mystery.
It is only in the illusion of denser matter that we
think we can go behind it and see it turn otherwise
than clock-wise. You must see the real Svastika in
terms of consciousness other than the lower. Other-
wise there will. be confusion and doubt and mis-
interpretation. The things of the spirit must be seen
with the eyes of the spirit, and even the things
of the flesh should similarly be seen. So many
things that1 " cannot be " here " can be" elsewhere,
.and are.
It is impossible to say more than this, but it may
be asked if the hands of the real Clock can
be turned backwards. Is the turning backwards part
of its functioning ? Can the real Svastika turn anti-
clock-wise ? Is it always an illusion if the hands of
the clock move backwards and if the Svastika moves
.anti-clock-wise?
Is all darkness an illusion ? Is there only light ? Is
illusion part and substance of Reality ? What is the
place of contrast in evolution ?
118 AN ADVENTURE IN SOUND-
At one moment I say one thing, and at another.
moment I say another thing. Perhaps I must, on the
principle of the pairs of opposites.
THE PENDULUM SWINGS
But let us get back to mantrams.
The Point-Globe is the archetypal mantram-for
some the Point is the ascendant, for some the Globe.
Is the Nirvanic mantram the indrawing to the Point~
and the Buddhic mantram the outflowing to the
Globe? Yes, I think it is. Is the Nirvanic mantram
the inbreathing, and the Buddhic mantram the out-
breathing ? Yes, I think so.
Then what is the mental mantram ? The swing of
the pendulum between analysis and synthesis? Within
the Globe, of course, established by the outbreathing.
And the astral mantram ? I should say pulsation--
within the Globe, again, of course-but pulsation
struggling for release, may I say, in contradistinction
to the pendulum swinging of the mental mantram
which is self-contained ? There is an impatience of
being contained which seems to be characteristic 'of
the astral mantram.
And the physical mantram ? Stability-the main-
tenance of the status that is, expanding into the status.
that is more, but never less. This is somewhat con-
fusing, but is intended to signify that the physical
plane and its mantram constitute the apotheosis of
-MANTRAMS OF POWER 119
Stability, of the minimum of that Movement which is
the essence of the evolutionary process. What about
sub-physical mantrams ? These are beyond me al-
together.
MANTRAfv'S OF THUNDER AND LIGHTNING
Now I should like to take some of the key-words in
the mantrams which have been strung together by
H. P. Blavatsky in The Secret Doctrine in the flowing
sentence establishing the first of the three fundament-
al propositions at the root of The Secret Doctrine :
AN OMNIPRESENT, ETERNAL, BOUNDLESS AND
IMMUTABLE PRINCIPLE.
There you have a very remarkable gem, and the
more you try to analyse its pregnant sincerity in terms
of its mantram nature, the more you are beginning to
understand what she is driving at.
There are here five great mantrams which we have·
to try to understand as they are in the consciousness
of H.P.B., so far as this is at all possible to us, and to
create in terms of our own material and shapes. We
can only understand H.P.B.'s consciousness as we seek
to enter into the spirit of her life and writing-forms.
This is, so to speak, the newer Theosophy-we have
to take what is written in the books and make it a
jumping-off ground for our own realizations.
120 AN ADVENTURE IN SOUND
In H.P.B.'s case there is always thunder and light-
ning about her mantrams. It is literally true that no
mantram she could utter can be devoid of thunder
and lightning. They reverberate and echo through
the mountains of her being, and down into the plains
wherein we humbler mortals dwell.
With her the mantram OMNIPRESENT stretches
very obviously beyond our farthest reach. It goes
:beyond our farthest beyond. It is tremendous as
are all her mantrams, and OMNIPRESENT has an inten-
.sity beyond the conception of us all.
But it is a PRINCIPLE which is OMNIPRESENT.
What is this PRINCIPLE in Blavatsky terminology ? The
words FATHOMLESS CAUSE immediately occur to
me, but I really do not know why except that H.P.B.
often delights in antitheses as. for example, Rootless
Root. Indeed, these antitheses tell the truth far
more truly than the simpler utterances, for they
include the Being and the Non-Being of the sub-
ject to which they refer, to which there should be
always reference-the lack of which tells but a
half-truth.
The truest mantram descriptive of you and me is
that which involves our Being and Non-Being, which
together constitute the Be-and-non-Be-ness of our es-
sential selves. But how little of ourselves do we kno-w
as we confine our knowledge to what we think is the
Reality-the Being ! In these days of half-knowledge,
-MANTRAMS OF POWER 121
·if there be even that, it is only the positive that
counts, not the negative.
I have often tried to understand the intensity nature
in OMNIPRESENT when used by H.P.B. But there is a
limit to one's power to conceive intensity. Very few
Theosophists have ever explored the Being aspects of
their natures, let alone Non-Being, and in Non-Being
we all flounder if ever we consider the question at
all. So far as our conception of the world goes,
·there is always in everything the positive and the
•negative. If you think of " George Arundale " as
·the unit, what is the positive of him and what is the
negative of him ? It is the same with any other
.nomenclature to which you are individually attached.
The advantage of dealing with these things may not
appear to be practical. It is like going into a Theo-
sophical gymnasium and stretching our consciousness
with various types of apparatus available there. This
·is going beyond the frontiers of the personal and
,usual outlook on life.
I have been trying to see what the conception of
..AN OMNIPRESENT, ETERNAL, BOUNDLESS AND IM-
MUTABLE PRINCIPLE means in relation to FATHOM-
:LESS CAUSE.
Do you see now how inaccurately I have described
the Nirvanic mantram and the Buddhic mantram when
I assert their positives and not the negatives of their
;positives? But what else can I do to make myself clear
122 AN ADVENTURE IN SOUND
to the positive-loving, to, shall I say, the positive-im-·
prisoned?
A COMET MANTRAM-FORM
But the words FATHOMLESS CAUSE produce a•
mantram-form which by no means gives us a picture
of a Principle. The mantram-form of Fathomless Cause·
is indeed a Globe, but a Globe with a tail as is a-
comet-the tail being due to the stretching out of-
the Globe-matter into what I can only call Causation.
The conception of Causation, of Origination, domin-·
ates the Globe. There is a dominating From-ness;
which affects the globular shape, though exactly how·
I cannot say, for in these regions influence is indeter-·
minate, immeasurable and directionless.
You cannot say that the tail of the Globe-comet·
stretches outwards in such and such a direction, for·
we are in abstract regio'ns. There is a stretch-ness:
about the Globe-comet and that is all we can or need:
to postulate.
As the Globe and Point are archetypal in all man-
trams, there are, of course, permutations and varia-·
tions on the Globe, so that it may lose sometimes the·
intensity of its globular aspect. When I try to corre-
late the Globe-comet of Fathomless Cause with sound
or with colour, or form, or fragrance, I simply cannot:
do it. I can do it as an amusement or as guess-work,.
but as to a reality I do not know.
-MANTRAMS OF POWER 123'
Every comet that we see in the sky is a mantram
-that emerges at once. It is a mantram that is do-·
ing its work. There is no aimlessness about its pur-·
pose. The comet we saw at Adyar is busy, it has a.
job. It is said that people at the level of the Lord
Buddha are among those who deal with the compli-
cations of inter-planetary and inter-universe comets. I
know nothing about it, but still such an idea stretches
the consciousness, and lifts one out of one's normal
self into super-conditions of consciousness which help
very much.
FASHIONING MANTRAMS
But perhaps before I go any further I ought to say
something about the material out of which is fashioned
the Globe, or the Point for the matter of that. It is
primordial substance. I should like to call it proto-
plasm in the very real sense of this word, proto-
plasm which has something in the nature of a physical
body, but which is mainly otherwise composed. Is the
physical body etheric in composition, or is there the
faintest of actual physical matter invisible to the phys-
ical eye?
In any case, there is matter, and we have to learn
to fashion mantrams out of the matter which in its
turn we have to learn how to collect for the fashion-
ing. It is a matter of the will, of the imagination up
to a certain point, and of knowing how to look for
"124 AN ADVENTURE IN SOUND
·this protoplasmic substance which is everywhere. We
are gradually becoming Gods. Some day we shall
have to deal with a sea of matter asleep, which we
shall have to fashion into wakefulness. It is never too
,late nor too early to start. We should start now.
And when we have the matter, and then the
.general form, with the help of the imagination we
·can attach to the form colour, sound and fragrance.
This is what we have to do with each mantram in the
sentence I have quoted from The Secret Doctrine :
AN OMNIPRESENT, ETERNAL, BOUNDLESS
;AND IMMUTABLE PRINCIPLE.
That is the way The Secret Doctrine ought to be
studied, not gabbled in a general spirit of non-under-
standing reverence. We must make that utterance
our own. We must give it our own significance.
·we must create it in the image of our own individual
:Reality. We must not accept it second-hand, how-
ever much the utterance of H. P. Blavatsky must
·needs be far, far more glorious than anything we
could conceive or utter. H.P.B. would be delighted
that we were not simply hanging on to her doctrinal
skirts but were trying to understand things for
·ourselves.
"God created man to be immortal." We have to
create in the spirit of our individual immortalities. "And
,made him to be an image of His own Eternity." We
-MANTRAMS OF POWER
have to gain some glimpse of our o.wn Eternity and •
then to make our " manhoods " to be an image of'
our own Eternities. It 'is a tremendously stretching.
thought to try to understand what is our own indi-
vidual Eternity. We are bound to be substantially
wrong. We can, however, never be completely
wrong, and we can never be right without being
joyfully wrong and knowing that we. are wrong. Any-
body who lays down the law, saying: " Theosophy'
teaches us this, that or the other," is slovenly in his
thinking. Theosophy does not teach us anything-it
inspires us. The moment you say that Theosophy
teaches this, that or the other, you are degrading
· the whole conception of the Science.
We must be busy about becoming Gods-creating;
a universe in the glory of our own immortality and•
making it to be an image of our own Eternity.
Fashion your mantram, then, for that mighty word
PRINCIPLE.
Let the very word itself be a craftsman to help you·
to create its vehicle. When you utter the word
PRINCIPLE let it go forth into the world and into
space in the image of your own fashioning of it.
Look at the mantram of it. Look at the form of
it, and at all the accompaniments of the form. Look
at the matter of it. SEE IT.
.AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY-
A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 1
l WANT to get away from the normal preoccupations
.which are round about us ::~11 the time just now, and
,especially from the war, from political and any other
preoccupations which imprison us along certain lines.
I want to suggest to you that we should concentrate
for a while this morning on fundamentals.
WHAT ARE YOUR FUNDAMENTALS?
Each individual has his own fundamentals. It would
·not be possible for me to suggest to you a Greatest
Common Measure of fundamentals which would include
all the individual fundamentals of each one of us,
though, of course, there is one. Each one has his
own ultimates on which he relies in the long run for
his judgments, his inspirations, his aspirations, and to
which he looks for comfort, support and strength in
all times of difficulty, danger and doubt. I cannot
know what are your fundamentals. I can only hope
that there is no one here who can say : " I do not
1 Adyar, 24 August 1941.
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 127
.know what my fundamentals are." I do not know
.how long you have all been members of The Theo-
.sophical Society. If, being members of The Theo-
sophical Society, you do not know what are at least
some of the fundamentals of your own individual life,
,it is about time you did.
When I say " fundamentals," I mean those ultimate
conceptions of the plan and purpose of life which to
you are most real, which are incontrovertible so far as
you are concerned at your present stage of under-
standing, which are the bedrock of all that you are,
of all that you do, and all you hope to be and to do
.in the future. What I can do is to disclose to you
some of my own fundamentals. You will either find
;them agreeable to you, or not so agreeable to you,
though, perhaps, not necessarily disagreeable to you.
Most of you are not likely to find them agreeable,
.because they are special to me, and every individual
.has his own idiosyncrasies, his own uniqueness, his
own wonderfulness, that nobody else has. It is that
which you have to discover. It is that which Theos-
ophy and your membership of The Theosophical Society
·can help you to discover, so that some day, as in a
flash, as in some wonderful revelation, you come face
to face with your own uniqueness, you will know life
as magnificently worth living, be the obstacles what
they may. At any particular moment, in any particular
incarnation, or series of lives, your uniqueness is your
128 AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY'
Divinity, and that is the most precious thing in the:
world to you. I hope that Theosophy has revealed
to you your uniqueness, that you are not in a stat&.
of doubt or indecision in regard to it, still less that.
you can say : "I do not know what my uniqueness is."
Of course, in part your uniqueness may be some-·
what resemblant to the uniqueness of others. But.
there is always something which differentiates you.
from every one else, even if you be the most ardent.
devotee of a particular individual or of a particular·
line of growth. If you are fanatically devoted to a•
Master or to some particular person or principle, your·
very fanaticism should cause you to bring to the..
service of that Master, that person, or that princip'8.\·
something that He needs or the principle needs !Wi,:.·
order to further the work. When a Master receives:
an individual into probation or into acceptance,.
or into still more intimate discipleship, it is because•
He needs that which the individual can give. He
knows what the individual can give. He ·discover~..
what the individual can give far sooner than the indi~·
vidual can discover it himself. ·Fortunately, our living.
is not confined within the terms of our ordinary·
emotional, mental and physical plane consciousne~, ...
We can lead lives wider than within the conRa~;,.
of those. ··
It is the same with membership of The Theosophit;at ·
Society. The Masters admit us all to membership of:~ ·
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 129
Theosophical Society because we can be of use to Their
great movement. We should be busy trying to know
.of what use we can be to the Master. Otherwise we
shall be thinking of what we can derive from our mem-
bership of The Theosophical Society instead of what we
can give to this tremendous movement. If you are a
member of any truly great spiritual movem~nt, it is in
order that you may pour out your uniqueness upon
that movement.
Now let me point the moral of that, so far as I am
individually concerned. The actual work that I am
.doing in the outer world, the small amount of political
work in which I am engaged, the work concerned
with the Presidentship of The Theosophical Society,
my educational activities, all of these have little to do
with what I consider to be my own particular unique-
ness. Whether the work that other people do is
a reflection of their uniqueness, I do not know ; I can
only be concerned with my own status, and the work
·1 do in the outer world, though it is all work that has
.to be done, is not work really vitally concerned with
.my own particular uniqueness.
SPIRITUAL CEREMONIAL
My own particular uniqueness is concerned with
what I should call " Spiritual Ceremonial." That is to
say, I consider everything in terms of its spiritual
9eometry, and endeavour to discover where are its
9
130 AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY'
forces, what are its concentrations, and how those·
can be disposed of for the service of the world. In a
very humble way I am a geometrician, which does.
not in the least degree mean I am an authority on.
geometry. The geometry we read in the ordinary·
educational textbooks is only the very fringe of geo-
metrical truth. Real Geometry is expressed when we.
say that " God geometrizes," which means that out
of the infinitude of force God concentrates force and
disperses it. He concentrates and disperses Force in
every unit of life, be that unit mineral or vegetable,
or animal, human or sub-human.
My geometry and my geometrical forms, into which.
I resolve all that I see and know, are musical geo-
metry, since with me every concentration and dis-
persal of force is in terms of sound, of all soundsr
from the majestic drum to the incomparable vina, as.
the nature of the concentration and dispersal may be..
Every living thing, and therefore everything, is an
expression in its own individual form of its own indi-
vidual and unique musical geometry. It has its own.
individual scale and melody and harmony which it will
develop more and more until its musical geometry
is as complete and as perfect as may be possible.
After a chair has been fashioned by a carpenter it
actually does develop as best it can, though it may b~
frustrated in its development by external causes, in-
cluding the crudity of man. An old chair is a better
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 131
chair than a young chair, even though the older
creature may have become decrepit. The old chair
has more experience, for example, of people sitting on
it, than a young chair. I hope this does not sound
extravagant. I have reason to believe that there is
substantial accuracy in the statement. We, whose
musical geometry is more advanced, can help or hinder.
We can accelerate or retard growth. We can cause
the music of a " thing's " geometry to become more
or less harmonious. But geometrical music is every-'
where and in everything, and song-forms constitute
the creation of God. These are my fundamentals on
the basis of which I hope little by little to raise a
worthy Song-Form of Life.
At the present moment I can but play an instru-
ment in the orchestra of Life, and that feebly. Some
day, I shall myself conduct an orchestra of Life.
This chair here is a musical geometrical figure. It
embodies a concentration and a dispersal of force.
" What is the chair doing ? " " How is the chair
living ? '' When we pose to ourselves these questions,
we realize how little we know, because the average
individual is quite unable to stretch his consciousness
to endeavour to understand that here you have an
entity which has its own life, its own power, its own
purpose, is a concentration of God's life, .and is a
dispersing agent of His life by very reason of the
concentration.
j32 AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY
That applies very much more easily and obviously
when we think of ourselves. We are concentrations
or nuclei of forces. What are the forces of which we
are concentrations ? When we know that, we shall
know ourselves. What forces are we dispersing ? Even
though we are at a comparatively low stage of evolu-
tion-only just beginning to be civilized in truth-at the
same time we should have some kind of awareness,
some kind of realization, as to what forces are con-
centrated in us, what forces have to be developed in
us, what forces have to be magnificently dispersed in
the more remote future.
When I look at any particular individual, I wonder,
generally without any resolution of the wonder, be-
cause I have not the necessary knowledge, as to what
forces make up the concentration of the constitution
of that particular individual, and what he is evolving
to disperse. Of course, you hasten your evolution
enormously when you gain some glimpse of the unique-
ness of concentration of the forces which you em-•
body. You hasten your evolution tremendously when
you gain some glimpse of the purpose of the concen-
tration of those forces, so that you may disperse them
fully, perfectly.
The whole conception of the Rays is a movement
in the direction of an understanding of the concentra-
tion and dispersal of forces. We have only just begun
to know a little about the Rays. We know that there
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 133
are seven Rays, but there may be twelve, or there may
even be twenty-four for that matter. We cannot lay
down any law with regard to Theosophical teachings.
Whatever Dr. Besant may have said, or Bishop Lead-
beater may have said, or even a Master may have
said, is but for our understanding for the time being.
More will be revealed, and what has been revealed
will be modified as we are able to understand more
and more.
In my book, The Lotus Fire, I have done all I could
to explain my own individual uniqueness. That book
sums it up in as much detail as I am able to provide,
and the various Symbols which run through that book
symbolize concentrations and dispersals of various kinds
of force· on various kinds of .lines of outpouring. If
we think of Our Lord the Sun, He is a Supreme
Concentration of Force, and Dispersal of Force no
less, but different from other Lords who are Suns.
Our universe is unique-therefore we are unique. If
only we can concentrate on our uniqueness, on our
difference, on our value, our exclusive value to life,
to the world, to the Masters, to ourselves, we shall
be able to live far more effectively, far more in-
tensely, we shall be far less crippled, far less depending.
for our support on outside thoughts, outside feelings,
outside ideas, outside conventions.
Each one of us is self-contained. Each one of us
in truth has everything within him that he needs for
134 AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY
his growth. At a certain stage of evolution we like
to use Scriptures, books, persons, as crutches. But
.the time comes when we no longer need the Scrip-
tures, books and persons as crutches, because we
are centred in that living which is unique and perfect
for our own individual selves. If a person wears a
caste-mark, it means he needs help, unless it is that he
uses his caste-mark in order to help ; otherwise there
is no necessity to wear a caste-mark. If a person is
born in a particular faith or nationality, it means he
needs help, unless he assumes these for service ; other-
wise he would be entirely independent of nationality
or faith. He can put on a faith or a nationality as
·one does clothes. He can put on a caste-mark
simply for the work it can do to contribute to the
expression more and more of his individual uniqueness.
Jt is not necessary to read books in order to achieve,
except perhaps at a particular stage of evolution.
Hence the more in The Theosophical Society we can
be independent of props and support, the more truly
shall we be Theosophists and esotericists, as we are
supposed to be.
For my own part, as I say, I live my truest life in
the midst of that ceremonial which causes me to
regard everything that I see around me in terms of a
geometrical figure. I know perfectly well that some
day, when I look out upon a landscape, flowers, grass
and trees, I shall see geometry round about me, I
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 135
shall be able to draw a tree in terms of its concentra-
·tion and dispersal of force. It will not look like the
tree as the tree appears, as it will be in another
.dimension of the tree. It will be true nevertheless.
1ln any case, however a tree may look, it is for the
.purpose of concentrating and dispersing the forces
entrusted to it. If you look at a palm or an oak tree,
.a neem tree, any tree, you are looking at an expres-
.sion of the best the life that is the tree can manage.
You are looking at forces drawn into a nucleus, forces
·dispersed in terms of radiance.
Everything, therefore, is not only a concentration
-event but is a force event too, and that gives one a
far greater sense of the purpose of life in all its details
than otherwise one would have. Nothing is irrelevant
.or purposeless in life. On the contrary, everything is
tremendously purposeful, and the more we can realize
that, the more will the purposefulness in that which is
without us react on our own individual purposefulness
and make us realize it, so that we become pur-
poseful in our own individual uniqueness, as every
single thing in the outer world is purposeful in terms
.of its own individual uniqueness. You walk much
more reverently through life when you realize that
·,there are purposefulnesses everywhere round about
you. Because they are purposeful, they can stimulate
_your own purposefulness. There you have the whole
·value of the proximity to, the communion with, nature.
136 AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY
In the main it is that you may disperse your pur-
posefulness upon nature around you, in order that
your own purposefulness, and nature's purposefulness,
may themselves be stimulated. No one of my type,
for example, can possibly go through a grove of
casuarina trees without noticing as best he can the:
geometrical purposefulness of them all.
It may be through that purposefulness growing
more individual and achieving its uniqueness the more·
as kingdom after kingdom is reached and traversed,.
together with the whole idea of individuality being
achieved in the human kingdom, an idea which I think.
needs a tremendous amount of modification before it
can really be understood, that we begin, perhaps,.
almost certainly unconsciously to ourselves, to gain.
a glimpse of our own purposefulness towards which we.
have been striving in kingdom after kingdom of nature.
THE TRUE NAME
When during the course of the First of the Great
Initiations an individual hears uttered by one of the·
Elder Brethren his own true name, it means he hears.
uttered the quality of his own purposefulness for:
which he is intended, for which he has been striving:
for millions and millions of years. That, of course, .
immensely intensifies his recognition of his uniqueness.
down here, and he can work to intensify it very much·
more, so that he is able to move on more rapidly,,
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 13T
· taking Initiation after Initiation, which means a gradual
widening out of his consciousness to include more
of his purposefulness. When the Second Initiation-
comes, he should know his purposefulness, though (.
do not think all who have taken that stage know it..
He is a kutichaka. He dwells in a hut, a building,
fashioned out of the matter of his purposefulness as
it develops. Long before that time one should gain
a glimpse of a purposefulness independent of any
particular incarnation, something which one should
be able to carry with him quite independently of
birth or of death. There should be a common>
measure that one should realize, which should not only·
enable one to establish the silver thread of continuity
through incarnation after incarnation, but should also·
on the one hand make one independent of external·
criticism, and on the other hand make one realize·
what qualities need strengthening, and what weak-
nesses need adjusting.
DRAWING ONESELF GEOMETRICALLY
I find it very difficult, of course naturally, because
I am at a comparatively low level of evolution, to
draw a figure of myself geometrically, in musical terms,
of course. In any case, as a working hypothesis, I
know that I can be concentrated within the Point
which is at once the Essence of Life, as well as the
Fulfilment of Life. If only I can gain some conception
138 AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY
of the Point into which there is the concentration of
force which goes under the name of George Sydney
Arundale for the time being, and out of which comes a
dispersal of force with which George Sydney Arundale
is concerned for the time being, if only I can arrive
at that, my living will be easier, and I shall be less
dependent upon and imprisoned within the particular
circumstances of a particular incarnation. We must
be able to get rid of the trammels, the fetters, of a
particular incarnation. We are brought into incar-
nation to strengthen this quality, to diminish that weak-
ness. That is a time event, a time purpose. We
belong to Eternity far more than we belong to time,
even though time must help us to grow. We should
be already having some glimpse of our own individual
eternities which make up the vast Eternity of Life,
whatever that Eternity may be.
The Point is the centre of the various chakras which
revolve round it in one's system. Where is that Point?
What are the connections between the Point and its
frontiers ? What is the substance of the connection
betweer:l the Point and the chakras which are, as it
were, the planets revolving around the Central Sun
which is the Point ? The chakras are planets in the
very true sense of the meaning of the word, fo,r
" planet " means wanderer.
There you can go on, if you like·; but I will not,
because I should immediately become far removed
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 139
from the theme of my topic, into the whole question
-of Cosmic Initiations that bring the planets into being,
so that they become wanderers. What happens after
a planet becomes a wanderer? Few know anything
about it in the first place ; and in the second place I
certainly know nothing.
We have to take the Point where we can reach it.
Where literally the Point is of our Eternity I certainly
.cannot say-1 cannot say it with regard to myself,
still less with regard to you. I can say for the time
being that I may take it that my Point lies in my
.Monad, which is the most permanent thing which I
possess, or, I should rather say, which possesses me.
And on the physical plane my Point has its reflection
·in a particular centre, of the nature of which I think
I am aware.
OUR EUCLIDIAN SELVES
What is the nature of the Monad ? The Monad is a
·Concentration and dispersal of force. I am very much
prone to believe that every one of us should look
through, let us say, his Euclid, which is a trifle out of
date, though indeed less so far as I am concerned than
so far as many others may be concerned. If we would
go through our Euclid theorems of geometry, we
could select a geometrical figure nearest to ourselves
and to our qualities. But we must not all take the
47th Proposition of Euclid, simply because it has been
140 AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY'
associated with the name of Pythagoras. What is
your geometrical figure ? Try to see, when looking
through your geometry book, which of the proposi-
tions thrills you and discloses to you a conception of the·
particular figure you feel you are. You are a sub-
limation of that figure in any case. If you can get
right down to the physical plane and say : " That
figure is myself,'' then you can build out of that"
figure your own enlargement of it, your own develop-·
ment of it. You can humanize the figure. As per-
haps before you mineralized it and vegetableized it and
animalized it ; now you humanize it. That human-
ization of the geometrical figure is very wonderful,
because every geometrical figure is a concentration of
force. It is doing something God has given it power
to do, and it is very true to God's entrustment.
I am talking, as you see, of my own particular funda-
mental which is so very fascinating to me, because Ican
always in moments of leisure, or in moments of need,
lose ·myself to start with, and then find myself in
some little faint reflection or shadow of my own
uniqueness. If I were more evolved than I am, if I had
reached the Master's Initiation, still more if I had gone·
beyond, I should have a tremendous, an overwhelming,
conception of my own individual uniqueness. As it is,
I can only have this little fluttering dark shadow, but
even the fluttering of the dark shadow is thrilling,
because it is real to me.
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 141
If only all of you will endeavour. to work back
in the silences, not through conversation or the
study of books, if you can work into some relationship
with your uniqueness, however much it may be only
the shadow of the shade of your life which changes,
you would be infinitely more independent than you
are, Theosophy would be far more of a revelation than
it is. Even though you m_ay be hampered and hindered
by the circumstances of your incarnation so that there
is little you can do to manifest your uniqueness, still it
is there. No matter what the inhibitions are, the
uniqueness is there and it must in increasing measure
prevail. Whatever your uniqueness may have been
ten incarnations ago, it is more potent today, and it
will be more potent in the future. Its potency can
be utilized the more you are able to realize it.
Every membership of a spiritual body, as, for ex-
ample, The Theosophical Society, Freemasonry, or any
movement which represents Life, is a means whereby
you can come into touch with your own individual
uniqueness, however little you may think you are
unique. People who say : " I am not unique, I am
an ordinary person," do not know themselves. They
have become befogged by the circumstances of the
individual incarnation. Every one has the possibility
of expressing his uniqueness as a genius, an artist, a
creator, a sculptor, a saint, a hero. That is what
uniqueness means. It will be expressed in those varying
142 AN ADVENTURE IN GEOMETRY
terms according to the quality of the individual,
according to his spiritual Ray, by which I do not want
to confine myself to the ordinary conception of the Rays.
THE BUILDING-PLACE OF HEAVEN
We all have that glory, that splendour, round about
us. We are reminded of it in the heaven world. It is
good that we have death, for in the heaven world we
are reminded of our uniqueness, because one unique
characteristic of the heaven world is that we come
face to face, without any shadows clouding our vision,
with that uniqueness. But we cannot stay there. We
can only remain in the heaven world for a certain
period, while the forces last that take us into the heaven
world. When they have been used up in the further
building of faculty, we want to come down to build
more heaven, for this is the place where we build
heaven. The more you build heaven on earth, the
more you can gain afterwards. Not that anyone
necessarily, even if he has a tremendous accumulation
of heaven power, wants to remain in heaven, because
he sees what has to be done and wants to help to do
it down here. In the heaven world you gain fresh
confidence ; a fresh sense of your own worth, and the
certainty of your achievement.
If you have the capacity, you can vision little heavens
down here, you can go to heaven while you are very
much on earth. But some people are so much inhibited
-A CONCENTRATION ON FUNDAMENTALS 143
that they cannot associate heaven with earth, so
they are always waiting for the time when they can go
to heaven, saying : "0h, how glad I shall be when
the time comes when I shall be able to pass away and
have a respite in heaven ! " We can gain all that
here, if we want to do so. The Masters are able
to live far longer than we can live, because They can
make Their own heavens on earth. We cannot, which
is our misfortune and the misfortune of others round
about us.
In the heaven world you know your uniqueness.
You remember it for a moment when you are young-
Then the prison-walls draw around you and you forget,
until you are impelled to remember more and more
when you are on the threshold of that place where
memory becomes fact.
.AN ADVENTURE IN DISCOVERING
IHE POINT CENTRE OF OUR BEING 1
THE more I study those particular aspects of T~
-ophy which concern my own field of Truth, the ril~
I realize that I am only at the fringe of the gtea:t'.
.globe of Truth-if a globe has a fringe at all. Shou!d
I rather say, I am only at the outer circumference of.
Truth and can hardly expect to penetrate into th~ .
very heart until very, very many incarnations he!Ve ·
,passed.
·READING BOOKS IS NOT ENOUGH
I sometimes think of the bland ease with which we
·talk of the various planes of consciousness, physical
.conscidusness, astral consciousn'ess-a most objec-
tionable word that-and then we swing lightly over the .
·two divisions of mental consciousness-the lower mine!,
and the higher mind-afterwards sailing proudly f~ .
the Buddhic consciousness, and then we sail further.
•into the Nirvanic consciousness, and finally we laqk
<>ver the top and gaze. at the Atmic consciousness, ~~:
·think we do !
1 Adyar, 31 August 1941.
THE POINT CENTRE OF OUR BEING 145
_We have a familiarity with, we feel we can talk in-
tellectually about, the Buddhic consciousness as it is
characterized, of the Nirvanic consciousness as it is
characterized, and there are some very proud spirits
who will find themselves able to characterize the
Atmic consciousness no less. And who knows, there
may be adventurous souls who feel able to go beyond
the Atmic consciousness, and peer into regions which
for us less advanced entities are entirely closed.
I wonder how many there are in The Theosophical
Society, who have a real, personal knowledge derived
from experience, derived from one plane, let alone
half a dozen ? Remember that the reading of books
is not enough. The reading of a book is an introduc-
tion. It is just like having a guide-book and not
going to the country about which the guide-book
writes.
I cannot help wishing that every member of The
Theosophical Society would make up his mind that he
will know for himself, independently of books and
persons, something about something. It does not
matter how small that something is so long as he
knows something about it, just a little about just a
little. Let him know it so that he can stand on a
platform and say : "This is my own experience. Wheth-
er it is at all true is another matter, but such as it
is, there it is, and I bear witness to it, so far as I am
concerned."
10
"146 AN ADVENTURE IN DISCOVERING
We are too much bookworms-and the word
worm is not inappropriate . . . just squiggling along
on the ground floor, never looking to the higher
floors to which we can ascend.
If you are confined within books during your
present incarnation and never go outside of them, I
wonder if you can imagine what strange little heavens
you will have ? For you will inevitably carry all the
same principles into the heaven world that you have
in the earth world. I cannot help thinking it will be
a somewhat amusing, even a strange sight, to see a
number of Theosophical heaven-ites pouring over
books in the heaven world.
For my own part, I want my heaven world to be
very real, to contain, in fact, the truths to which I
aspire. I shall not be satisfied with less ; I shall not
want Bibles and Scriptures and Secret Doctrines and
lsises Unveiled. I think I shall want my heaven world
to be peopled by principles and laws with an admixture
of persons. I do most sincerely want to know, but of
course that is the difficulty for all of us, we do want
to know but it is difficult to know. If it were not
difficult to know, knowledge would not be worth
having, and I can certainly say out of my somewhat
varied experience that when one gains a little in-
adequate, incorrect glimpse of something real, it is
infinitely worth while. And just the little glimpse of
the Real, just the very infinitesimal period of standing
·THE POINT CENTRE OF OUR BEING 147
face to face with the Real with no intermediary of
.book or of person, introduces into one's consciousness
.a wealth of understanding.
My own book The Lotus Fire, which strangely
·enough seems to be gaining appreciation, was simply
.the result of seeing a great Teacher in a particular
pose. That flash of sight opened out illimitable vistas
<Df Truth. I can see Him now, standing outside His
.ashrama, as one might call it,, outside the big cave in
the Himalayas in which He lives, and gazing there-
from upon the whole world, gazing sequentially in
what I can only call a series of Blessings conveyed
·through Symbols. That was quite enough for me to
·enter into the spirit of reality in a very detailed way.
The gazing upon the great Teacher was a matter of
a flash, but the flash had within it all the Infinite.
:STRETCHING THE CONSCIOUSNESS
And that is why, in my own particular universe, the
iPoint is so vital. Because, however we may describe
..it-and I really do not know how we can describe it
-it represents both the Infinite and the infinitesimal.
To me it is of absorbing interest to take any object I
.may see around me, be it more alive or less alive,
.and to derive from its Point its essence, both its In-
finitude and its infinitesimilitude, if I may use the
·word. I cannot help now trying to look upon an
•individual and to translate !him back to the period in
148 AN ADVENTURE IN DISCOVERING
the infinitely distant past when he was asleep, and
before a Logos awoke him to the evolutionary pro-
cess. There is nothing more interesting than to try .
to trace an individual back to the primordial period of
unconsciousness, of sleepfulness, and, of course, of
infinite potentiality. And then I like to trace him
forward to a goal-not the goal-but a goal in which
he has achieved the purpose of a stage in this evo-
lutionary process and probably goes onward to achieve.
the purpose of another.'
It is in that way that I am able to stretch my con-
sciousness. And the consciousness of each one o.f.
us needs constant stretching or it becomes hard, and.
eventually might break or at least become brittle.
through being hardened by disuetude. And I have a-
little formula for that stretching of consciousness so as.
to be sure that my own consciousness is not becoming
hard if I can prevent it. I say to myself constantly:.
" Cultivate emotion and reason to the point of imagin-
ation." You see, I give a higher place to imagination
than to the emotions and to reason. It is not quite
respectful to say that to the Fifth Root Race, still less
to the fifth sub-race of the Fifth Root Race. But
still, unless we can get rid of our subservience to the.
mind and make it a servant instead of suffering it to-
be a. master, we shall not pass onwards to the sixth.
sub-race which is supposed to be the sub-race for the.·
accentuation of intuition.
1HE POINT CENTRE OF OUR BEING 149
So Isay: "Cultivate emotion and reason to the point
.of imagination"; and then I put in Blake's little phrase,
" Cultivate imagination to the point of vision " ; and
finally, "Cultivate vision to the point of identity." That
is to say, when through your emotion and your reason
you are able to develop your imagination, and when
your imagination is keen and penetrating enough to
·change into vision, then your vision must become
·splendid enough so that you can identify all you
fPerceive with yourself.
It is so important to be able to do this. The average
individual, I am afraid, does not do it. He simply
moves about among his emotional .and mental pro~
·cesses, whatever they may be. He is afraid of the
.imagination. He might be less afraid of the imagin~
.ation if he would so plan it, if he would so cultivate
:it, to the point of vision, that there would be no mind-
analysis or no mind-synthesis to stand between him
and his perception of the Real, such as he is able to
·perceive. And then would come that vision which
eventually gives one the sense of identity, the sense
.of the unity of life, the sense of one's own identity
with all that lives.
It is in order to fulfil those three processes
i:hat we need particularly to identify ourselves with,
or to perceive the nature of, first, the lower mind ;
second, the higher mind ; third, the Buddhic con-
sciousness ; and fourth, just as in a glimpse, the
150 AN ADVENTURE IN DISCOVERINGi
Nirvanic consciousness. In the Buddhic conscious-
ness we perceive the One in the many. In the,,
Nirvanic consciousness, we perceive the· many in the
One. We need both those processes to be substan-
tially developed, in order that we may effectively use·
the imagination and vision. As for the Higher Manas,
what is sometimes, I believe, called " the abstract
mind," that quality we need for the discovery of the
Point in objects. The Higher Manas is the state of
consciousness which perceives the Point, the essence,
the essential quality, that expresses itself and is
translated into very many forms, through the instru-
mentality of the lower mind. For Theosophists, while
the lower mind has its very signal importance, there
must be an ascension into the higher mind in which
they will be able to perceive the real essence both of
the genus of any particular series and of the particular·
species which emerges from that genus. I am not
satisfied with merely taking an object and leaving
it in the lower mind. I must translate it in terms
of the higher mind. What happens to this chair
when I lift it into the higher mind consciousness ?'
s'upposing I try to lift that which is produced in the
higher mind into the Buddhic consciousness, what.
shall I see there ? Something corresponding to a
chair ? Of course there will be, for the Buddhic
consciousness, like any other consciousness, is all-·
containing.
THE POINT CENTRE OF OUR BEING 151
I sometimes think it would be extremely valuable
if someone would write, as best he can, a little
monograph on some particular object in terms of
physical plane consciousness, in terms of emotional.
plane consciousness, in terms of mental plane con-
sciousness, and in terms of Buddhic and Nirvanic
consciousness no less. That would show how an
individual can be working at his consciousness, so that
he begins to stimulate those higher aspects of con-
sciousness which normally lie fallow, because he stops
short even with the lower mind itself, not penetrating
into the higher.
COLOUR-MUSIC-FORM GEOMETRY
It is because of all that most fascinating exploration
and discovery that I feel as geometrical as I said I did
elsewhere. To me geometry, in whatever terms it
may be expressed, resolves many of those translations
from the lower into the higher. And when I say
"geometry," I can mean either colour geometry or
music geometry or the form geometry with which we
are very familiar. No one has yet written on the
geometry of colour and music, so far as I know.
We have to break down the barriers, the results of
our own ignorance, between all these various aspects
of consciousness. There is essentially no difference
between fragrance, music, colour and form-they are
all precisely the same, only expressed in different
152 AN ADVENTURE IN DISCOVERING
terms according to the note, the octave, that is struck,
When we are told each Master has His own fragrance,
it simply means He has now the power to express
Himself in terms of fragrance just as He can express'
Himself in terms of music.
Each individual has some one note which is the
musical expression of that name which is supposed
to be given to him, or of which he is supposed
to be reminded, when he enters a particular
phase of the universal consciousness marked ~y
admission to the Great Brotherhood. The more we
can discover our essential notes and fragrances and
forms and colours for ourselves, independently of the
particular reflections of these we may be wearing for
the moment, the more rapid is our progress. Of
course, membership of The Theosophical Society, to-
gether with Theosophy, is a direct help to us, because
The Theosophical Society establishes one kind of
rhythm in us and the Esoteric School develops that
rhythm into another kind of rhythm, and we proceed
on to the rhythms of the probationary stage of dis-
dpleship, accepted discipleship, and to the rhythms of
the various degrees of Initiation. Still higher, and to
us incomprehensible, is the rhythm of the Adept level..
We really begin to establish rhythms within our-
selves when we turn homewards from the Path of
Forthgoing. We begin to realize our own rhythm
when we enter the Theosophical Movement, this
THE POINT CENTRE OF OUR BEING 153
being not the first of such movements to which we
ihave belonged since we became members of the
.Band of Servers.
I do hope that every member by very reason of
1his membership feels that there is an intensification
in him both of his individuality and no less of his
·universality, so that the pendulum of his being swings
•more naturally, more evenly, and, of course, more
beautifully, curving between individuality and Univer-
·sality in terms of his life.
Every truth we know in Theosophy about planes
.of Consciousness, Reincarnation, Karma, etc., is directly
designed to enable us to establish our rhythms more
effectively. Of course we know practically nothing
about these great truths of Reincarnation or Karma
·Or the Planes of Consciousness, or the Rays, but at
least they are studied, and probably we must in some
.measure react to them. We cannot react to them
·perfectly, nor can we understand them, nor can they
be vouchsafed to us as they are in all their blinding
:Jightning.
THE CENTRE OF YOUR BEING
I suppose that i.f an individual really makes up his
:mind, he can discover the very physical dwelling-place
of the essence of his nature. If I were to ask any
·one of you : " Where is your Point, your essence so
far as your physical being, your physical individuality,
154 AN ADVENTURE IN DISCOVERING.
is concerned ? '' I expect you would be able to say :
"It is there," pointing to some particular place. You
may be mistaken-that does not matter. We must.
mistake until we take. It is not the making of mis- ·
takes that matters. It matters infinitely more that we
should move towards the point of taking.
I think I can say, as at present advised, that I know
where is my Point, the centre of my being so far as
regards its reflection in the physical body, and how
it shoots forth its lines of force, that is to say, how it
multiplies itself in various directions, for a line is noth-
ing more than a number of points placed in juxtaposi-
tion. I think I can put down on paper a geometrical
figure of myself with the Point as the emanating centre,,
and every individual may be able to do the same fbr
himself, placing his Point where somehow or other he
intuits it to be.
If you ask : " Is that where your Point is always
going to be ? " I should say : " Certainly not. It is a
temporary hotel for my Point, a temporary abiding
place for my Point. It is a temporary resting-place.''
Then you may say: "Do you know where your Point.
ought to be? In what direction is it going to move
~hen your ' sun moves Northwards ' ? Is your Point
right where it is? " I should answer: " No, it is not
right where it is, but it is the best I can do at present,.
with the stage of evolution where I am. My Point will.
eventually have to shift.''
THE POINT CENTRE OF OUR BEING 1Ss-
One little hint as to how you may feel yourself to
be on the road to the discovery of the abode of your
Point. Supposing a period of exaltation descends
upon you, or suppose a period of danger descends
upon you, or suppose a period of opportunity for
great reverence or understanding or compassion de-
scends upon you, where in the physical body do you.
first feel these states of response within yourself ? I
eannot say more than that, for there is nothing more
to say. Such is the way in which you begin to per-·
ceive that which is for the time being that place in'
your physical body most responsive to great influ-
ences. If you are able to answer unhesitatingly over a
number of experiences where the great circumstances
physically strike you, then you can put the Point there
pro tem. You are very likely to be wrong, but it does.
not matter. It is a temporary convenience for the·
abiding of the centre of your being, so far as the
physical body is concerned, and is obviously a reflec-
tion of the various centres of your being in other
stages of consciousness.
TESTING THE REAL
I also know if I am in contact with the Real. the
Genuine, the True, so far as I am concerned, by the
immediate reaction to the external stimulus in a cer-
tain region of the body. I live in that particular Point
at a greatly accelerated rate of vibration, because of
156 AN ADVENTURE IN DISCOVERING
the external stimulus, whatever the nature of that
stimulus may be. So I know there is something true
which I am contacting.
Suppose I have what I think is an experience on
the inner planes. Suppose I have experiences such as
I have described in The Night Bell. I make a test, so
far as I can, as to the question whether there is an ele-
1ment of truth in them-of course there will be an
element of truth in all such experiences-but as to
whether they are for the most part true, by the
reaction of my Point to them when I place the two
face to face. It is not that I look at them to see if
they are true, but I ask the experience to contact the
present Point of my being. If the Point is irresponsive,
there is probably something wrong. If the Point
vibrates in response, there is probably something in
the experience tliat is right, though not perhaps in
.all its details.
If I go out in the world and contact this, that or
the other person, or contact this, that or the other
policy, I can measure its rectitude for me, not for
everybody, by the effect upon my Point. That is
why it i~ so valuable to have some conception as to
the region in which your Point is temporarily dwelling,
the centre of the various lines of force that pass to
the frontiers of your consciousness, whatever these
AN ADVENTURE IN MEMORY--HOW TO
REMEMBER INNER PLANE EXPERIENCES 1
I SHOULD very much like to talk this evening on my
own outlook with regard to the memory of events.
that take place on what we call the " inner planes "
when we are· supposed to be asleep. It is a very
difficult process, and, of course, the great experts in
that line are no longer with us physically. Every one
of us who wants to remember has to do the best he
can, generally without any possibility of corroboration
or verification from other people, so that the whole
problem of remembrance for most of us is certainly·
hazardous.
DETERMINATION
I am very determined to remember all I possibly
can, and I think that probably helps a little.
Even that determination does not go to the root·
of the problem, because memory of the real kind
without the intervention of the personal equation, or
with as little intervention of the personal equation as.
l Roof Talk, 18 July 1941.
158 AN ADVENTURE IN MEMORY
,possible, depends on very careful training not avail-
.able obviously to most of us at the present time.
.PREPARATION
I always try nightly to prepare as well as I can
beforehand by concentrating as long a time as possible
.on any particular event I happen to know is going to
happen, such as the Festivals of Vaisakh or Asala
-or Christmas. I do what I can to detach myself from
.all mundane preoccupations and concentrate on the
.particular event, but I do not concentrate in such a
manner that I fatigue myself. Rather it is a con-
.centration that involves my being wafted as soon
as possible into the atmosphere that will pervade ·
the event.
If there is something you kn0w is going to happen,
then it is possible to prepare for it by having this kind ,
of vigil. But if you have no particular knowledge of
anything happening, even though events are always
taking place on one plane or another, then you have
·to endeavour to produce in yourself a state of con-
stant receptivity. You must make yourself ready in
whatever way may be most congenial to receive any
particular event or occurrence of importance to you,
which may be taking place, so that you may remem-
,·ber anything which concerns you and your work.
If you are engaged, as we all of us are, in some
·specific help in connection with the war, that will
-HOW TO REMEMBER INNER PLANE EXPERIENCES 159
have its own place, you will be determined to re-
member the particular work you may be doing during
your sleep time, and the types of war work in which
you are likely to be engaged. I think most Theos-
·ophists throughout the world are busy helping, and
when they go to sleep they try to make themselves
efficiently helpful. I know perfectly well that if I deter-
mine to go to some particular country or place or
.people, I shall have some memory of going to that
country, place or people. It may be just the memory
-of the place or the country or the people, and not
·some of the details which I should want to remember
more than anything else. But that will be due to
the inefficiency of the various bodies. Still, I shall
at least have something to "tell me that I have done
what I wanted to do, so far as general conditions are
-concerned•
.PROJECTING THE WAKING CONSCIOUSNESS
One must not only have a condition of recep~
tivity but a determination to remember without
.any straining of the consciousness. In this connec-
tion it is just as well to realize that it is not
necessary we should actually be asleep in order to
remember. You can project your consciousness
without going to sleep. Many people find them-
selves wakeful at the critical moment when the
apex of some ceremony has been reached. If you are
160 AN ADVENTURE IN MEMOR'
awake throughout the whole period, you can s~ill havE
definitely clear-cut memories, if you try to projed
your consciousness to the place where the event il
taking place, and especially if you have the knowledge
you can gain in Theosophical literature of the nature oi
some of these great events, even to the veriest detaHs.
RETURN SLOWLY
Then, what is more difficult, you must learn to
return slowly. If you wake up with a start or in an:y
way return hastily or hurriedly, memory becomes very
much more difficult, especially for people at our par-
ticular stage of unfoldment. If you make up your mind
you will do everything deliberately and slowly, you will
bring back the memory, and not lose on the way the
memories that you wish to have. But all of this
depends on deliberate and slow living all of the time.
Many people do not live slowly or deliberately, they
do not find any satisfaction in paying attention to
details. They are always in a rush and in a hurry,
and never concern themselves with the details of life.
That impulsive rush and hurry become reflected into
the inner consciousness, and to a large extent prevent
memory from being what it should be. I always know
when I come back to the body with a plop, because
everything is confused.
I was telling some friends how ridiculous c;:an be
one's memories, how one is confused, even though
-HOW TO REMEMBER INNER PLANE EXPERIENCES 161
the dreams may not be as they appear. I remember
·coming back to Ootacamund with a rush and immedi-
.ately trying to have my memories, for one gets into
the habit of wanting to know what has been going on.
I remember being immensely concerned with fitting
or attempting to fit glasses to a myopic goat. It was
.extremely difficult, for with the goat's horns in the
way the glasses would not stay placed, and I wondered
whether even the great Dr. Vogt, the very eminent
Swiss oculist, would have been able to have solved the
cproblem of fitting the goat with suitable spectacles.
(Mr. Jinaraiadasa : Was it a symbolic dream ?
The President : If it was, I have not yet reached
the symbolism, unless it might be due to the fact that
sometimes our residents butt each other, and by giving
cthem clear vision I wanted to prevent them from
'butting.)
So you see here we have a stupidity of the first
order which is very tiresome. But if one can go to
sleep slowly, as I always try to do, if one can make up
·One's mind to return slowly, as I try to do, then one
has a better chance for memory than otherwise there
would be.
WRITE YOUR MEMORIES DOWN
If you have a memory, you must try to remember
.as much as you can and put it down at once.
1Have paper and pencil by your bedside. My own
11
162 AN ADVENTURE IN MEMORV
experience is that my memory is like a sieve, and if I
attempt to trust to the morning to remember, the
moment I wake it is all gone. Unless I put everything
down at once, my memory is very, very faulty indeed.
BROOD OVER YOUR REMEMBRANCE
Then you try to brood or sway yourself into a
deeper stratum of reminiscence, to see if you cannot
push back your memory a little further in order that
you can gain more of it.
Never mind if imagination enters, so that there
is partly memory and partly imagination. You must
use your imagination, for it is a potent aid to memory.
Imagination is a magnificent bridge if rightly used, so
that quite frankly there is no harm in letting your
imagination go, realizing, of course, you are using the
imagination as well as the direct memory you may be
able to have.
DE-DENSIFY THE BODY
Obviously to have such memories the body must be·
de-densified. If one is in the habit of taking alcohol,
flesh, tobacco, and other drugs, that must n.ecessarily
impede memory. Even if one may have to take some
drug, it impedes memory. I know very well myself
that while I do not indulge in any of these things-(
do not think I have ever had an injection in my life-
if there is an emotional disturbance or a mental worry,.
-HOW TO REMEMBER INNER PLANE EXPERIENCES 163
to that extent it is very definitely a relative inhibition.
The more calmly, the more beautifully, and the more
purely one lives, the easier is it to remember.
THE PERSONAL EQUATION
Now let us assume that we have a direct memory,
and let us also always assume that there is a certain
amount of imagination attached to it. Never forget
that the personal equation must enter to a certain
.extent. Most of us have thought much of the Asala
Festival. There, we are told. the Lord Maitreya re-
cites one of the great Sermons of the Lord Buddha
and gives an appropriate commentary. We are also
told that every one hears that sermon and that com-
mentary in his own language-there is no occasion
for translation. But perhaps sufficient stress has not
been laid on the fact that every one will receive the
commentary in terms of his own outlook, his own
needs, in terms of the way in which he can best profit
from the utterances of the Lord.
I have a fairly vivid memory of the last Asala
Festival. Supposing someone were to say : " I did not
remember that. What I remembered was entirely
different. Either one of us must be right or wrong,"
I should reply : " No, you have your own personal
equation which has its effect u_pon your memory, just
as I have my own personal equation acting on my
memory.'' I have no doubt that in the case of Bishop
164 AN ADVENTURE IN MEMORY
Leadbeater the whole difficulty would be reduced to a
minimum, except possibly for the words in which the
memory might be couched. But then in his case we
are talking of the great scientist. For us, I do not think
there can be a memory which has not the definite touch
of the personal equation. As I read through the notes
representing my own memory, I can see in the first
place my own verbiage, and, in the second place, I say
to myself that while the spirit may be right, very likely
it is a spirit which comes to me for my own helping.
I think that is one of the most wonderful things that
happens on the occasion of a great Teacher talking.
He talks in terms of your own needs, whatever these
may be. Upon the occasion of the Asala Festival,
the Lord speaks a great Message, but a Message
which the average hearer will hear in terms of his own
personal equation, and what he hears will not be
thereby the worse, but it will be as inspiring and as
helpful as it can possibly be.
Still we must remember to discount the personal
equation. We must not be the centres of our circum-
ferences of remembrance. We have to be very care-
ful. Very often when people remember, they re-
member very wonderful things about themselves.
That is the end of real memory. Some people will
come to one and say : " The Master called me to
Him and told me what a wonderful person I was, that
He cannot do without me, that I have a great work to
-HOW TO REMEMBER INNER PLANE EXPERIENCES 165
do for Him, a great mission to fulfil in His Name."
Of course, I am speaking of the extreme, but the
same folly exists at different levels.
We should boldly face the fact of the personal
equation and say: "Yes, this is what I remember,
but, of course, it is inevitably distorted by the per~
sana! equation which is strong in me." The per-
sonal equation must have its due weight where you
have advice given by Elders, and where you have to
draw into yourself the spirit of the Lord's words for
your own work so as to make that work more accept-
able to Him. I feel convinced that every one goes
away from such a wonderful event as the Asala Festival
either with a beautiful memory of the words of the
Lord, or at least with a reflection that is tremendously
precious. Certainly, the more that reflection is im-
personal, obviously the better.
TO SUM UP
These are the ways in which I should look upon
this whole question of remembering :
Purify your vehicles.
Prepare beforehand when possible.
.Have constant recep~ivity.
Determine to remember.
Return slowly.
Immediately remember as best you can, and make
a record without passing any judgment on it until later.
166 AN ADVENTURE IN MEMORY-HOW TO REMEMBER
Brood gently over the reminiscence.
What are you remembering ? Facts, perhaps, but
in the light of the personal equation. Discount the
personal equation.
The Masters speak Eternal Truths which must often
be translated into our time-needs.
.AN ADVENTURE IN GREATNESS-
REAL AND UNREAL 1
HOW prone we are to lose sight of the fact that all
good work is done by character alone. We are eager
to be great. We are eager to shine, be it because
we want to shine for our own personal satisfaction, or
,be it because we want to win the applause of our
fellows. We want to be great speakers, great writers,
great musicians, great dancers, great sculptors, great
warriors, great reformers, great business-men, and
.so forth.
Yet too often we forget that only character can
make us truly great, even though we may attain a
measure of greatness without it. With character we
,can become Gods if greatness be within us. Without
character we can only become great men, again if
there be greatness in us.
" All good work," it has been said, " is done by
God alone." And this means that all good work,
.all Godly work, is done only by the God which is
within us.
1 Written in August 1940.
168 AN ADVENTURE IN GREATNESS.
There is an unmistakable quality in work which is
Godly which is entirely absent from work which is just
great. A speaker may be a great speaker. But is he a
Godly speaker? A musician may be a great musician.
But is he a Godly musician ? A dancer may be a great
dancer. But is he, or perhaps she, a Godly dancer?
The answer to all these questions depends upon
the beauty of character with which the individual has
endowed himself.
CHARACTER-THE HEART OF GREATNESS
And if I am asked to define beauty of character, I'
shall say, first of all graciousness of character, andI
then kindliness of character, simplicity of character,
humility of character, reverence of character : and!
all these almost, if not quite, constant.
Ugliness of character is hardness of character, irrit-
ability of character, pride of character, and a constant
tendency to fault-finding even on the slightest provo-
cation.
Beauty of character is serenity of character. Ugli-
ness of character is unpredictability of character.
We may make allowances for unevenness of
temperament in all greatness. But when greatness
attains the higher reaches of nobility, then the un-
evennesses disappear. I think that such unevennesses
are not inconsistent with Godliness. But as the God-
liness waxes, the unevennesses wane.
-REAL AND UNREAL 169
If we think we have it in us to become great in
any wise, or if we think that someone whom we can
influence has in him or her the power to achieve a
measure of greatness, then must we be as busy about
the development of character as about the unfold-
ment of the greatness. We must remember that
character is the very heart of greatness., and that
without the heart beating strongly for beauty the
greatness that there is may be a diseased greatness,
a greatness without a soul, such as we see a~ound us
all too frequently.
Greatness is indeed terrible when it is soulless, for
while we may perceive the greatness we cannot but
also perceive the evil that is wrought by it. Should'
we at all call such greatness, greatness ? Perhaps
not; unless we accept, as I think we may, the
principle that D<Emon est Deus inversus. Greatness
without character must needs tend to descend into
the depths. Greatness with character must needs
rise into the heights.
It is character that matters, and we have yet to
learn, learned though we sometimes think we are,
that education is to the end of character, and not to
the end of trying to pass examinations. Every subject
in a curriculum of education is to the end of character.
But how few and far between are the teachers who
think of education in terms of character rather than
in terms of the forcible feeding with those facts of
170 AN ADVENTURE fN GREATNESS
today which are almost certain to be the fictions of
tomorrow.
Therefore is there little greatness in the world, and
what there is is in spite of our educational systems,
.and in no wise because of them. And even the
greatness that there is is often, more often than not,
hard, cold, downwards rather than upwards in its
movement. How wonderfully refreshing is a Besant,
.a Tagore, an Aurobindo Ghose, a Montessori, a
Gokhale, a Naoroji, a Gandhi, whether or not their
various types of greatness are cast in our own great-
ness-moulds.
TRUE GREATNESS IS NOBLE
There may, of course, be great people who make
great discoveries and add substantially to the know-
ledge and power of the world. If thereby they add
to the character of the world, it is because in them
there is the character which makes their discoveries
truly great and noble. But often great people make
great discoveries which subtract from the character of
the world. Can we rightly call such people great?
Can we rightly call their discoveries great? I think
Epstein is great. But I also think that his productions
-you notice that I do not call them art-weaken
the character of the world, and do not add to it. I
may call his productions great if by greatness I mean
that which is unusually striking, full of individuality,
-REAL AND UNREAL 171
well out of the co.mmon, and endowed with a
.measure of originality and genius. Epstein's own
·greatness lies in his works. He is great because
he produces the kind of works he does. But it is
not good work, and I would say that he does not use
his character, of whatever nature this may be, and I
would not personally deny character to him. But
since his work is not good work it is not done by
character, for all good work is done by character
.alone, as I have said in the beginning of this article-
.by force of character alone, fashioning for itself the
media through which it materializes. Where character
is at work, dancing, painting, carving, sculpturing,
speaking, writing, singing, composing in any medium
-there is good work, there is greatne.ss of whatever
stature the greatness may be. But where character
is absent, where it is not at work, there can be no
good work, even though there can be great work in
the sense in which I have defined it.
And ch,aracter is not a. matter of fits and starts.
It is a matter of, on the whole, steady expression.
Character belongs primarily and essentially to the
individual and to the home in which he is set. Char-
acter is a homely virtue, and not a matter of display.
Character is of the very substance of the body, and is
not to be put on and taken off for purposes of show.
Character must show itself in all the details of every-
day life, and towards all who ara part of such
172 AN ADVENTURE IN GREATNESS.
everyday life. It is no smartness to be assumed for
external social life, nor is it in any wise a cloak of
deception that others shall not know us <as we really
are. Character is nature. It is part of one's being.
There is nothing artificial about it. It is supremely
real, and does not change as conditions may change
about it. It is no chameleon.
And the greatness in which it incarnates
less a natural greatness. It is a greatness
could not be otherwise than that which it is.
1s no
which
And
through it runs the fineness, the refinement, the cul-
ture, which is of the essence of character, and there-
fore no less of the essence of the greatness to which
character gives birth.
MANY TYPES OF GREATNESS
Of course, greatness of the true variety may be of
many types. There is heroic greatness. There is the
greatness of the saint, of the genius, of the martyr.
There is the greatness of the artist, of the warrior,
of the statesman, of the merchant, of the teacher, of
the lawyer, of the doctor, of the artisan. There is
the greatness which rings through the world, and there
is the greatness of which no one knows, for it is hidden
m the home, often from the members of the
home itself. And there is the greatness that the
times evoke, as in the case of war and peril of'
all kinds.
-REAL AND UNREAL 173
Each of these types of greatness has its own fra-
grant character, ennoblement, and as it is expressed it
Mts the whole world. It lifts not merely the individual
himself, not merely his surroundings, not merely his
.people or his faith, not merely humanity. It lifts every
kingdom of nature. It causes each kingdom of nature
to glo~ with an added beauty, to become just a little
more unfolded, and the whole world, therefore, to
draw a trifle nearer to its Universal Brotherhood.
Nothing that we are, nothing that we do, nothing
that we think or feel, can we keep to ourselves, nor
within the small circle of our living. All spreads abroad
as move towards infinity the circle-ripples born of the
stone we cast into the water.
Be our greatness good, good spreads through the
worlds. Be our greatness bad, so also does it
spread.
DISCRIMINATION
We must seek to equip ourselves with that discern-
ment which shall enable us instantly to discriminate
between right greatness and wrong greatness. It is
not public opinion that must decide for us. On no
account must we be swayed by popular appraisal.
We must learn to decide for ourselves, as often, it
may be, against the crowd as with it. Only as we
ourselves become our own standards of ·judgment,
shall we in due course find our own way to our own
174 AN ADVENTURE IN GREATNESS-REAL AND UNREAL
greatness which is somewhere awaiting us, even
though it be but in the dim distance.
For to be able to discriminate between greatness.
that is real and greatness that is unreal is to begin
to know ourselves, not just as we are, but as we
shall be in the fullness of time, and to know what we
shall be is to hasten our footsteps on the way to it.
AN ADVENTURE IN CONTINUITY-THE
ESSENCE OF REINCARNATION
WHEN I think of what we call Reincarnation I s<
times wonder if those who " believe " in it are
as to that in which they " believe."
What is the essence of Reincarnation ? The SF
technique as set forth in Theosophical literature-
integration succeeded by a special process of intE
tion, or dipping down into successive layers of me:
consciousness ? For many this particular mode me
problematical, being beyond the grasp of their pn
intelligence and intuition.
For my own part, the essence is not the techn
but the principle that there is for all life an uni
rupted continuum of progressive growth, that e
tion is constant and unceasing.
The Science of Theosophy, as presented to 1
its nineteenth century seers, postulates individ1
only from the human kingdom onwards, so that I
not expressed the principle as an uninterrupted
tinuum of progressive individual growth. On the<
hand, my conviction has always been that individ1
176 AN ADVENTURE IN CONTINUITY
is as much a characteristic of the sub-human king-
doms, though different in texture, as of the human
kingdom. So, for myself, the adjective " individual "
.is highly appropriate.
It follows from my definition that every circum-
stance of life, very much including what we call death,
.is part of this continuum of progressive individual
.growth. Hence we need to replace interruption,
wherever we find it, by non-interruption, so as to
insist upon the fact of continuity amidst what I regard
.as the fiction of non-continuity.
For this reason I do not like the word reincarnation.
'It suggests a stopping and a starting again. I think
there is neither stopping nor starting again. There is
uninterrupted, uninterruptable, growth ; and only the
.illusion cast by ignorance conveys an impression of
.cessation.
We have acquired the habit of taking for granted
·that what we do not see is not there, or very likely has
·ceased to exist. Thus have crept into the various
languages of the world a number of words expressing
such illusion-annihilation, nothing, non-existence,
and so forth. The word reincarnation in a subtle way
1reflects this illusion-ignorance.
I want to get rid utterly of the idea that there is
interruption anywhere. And even if I am told that
the physical body surely disappears, I see no reason
·why I should not reply that, while its shape and form
may disappear, its component parts do not disappear,
and I am prepared to maintain that even shape and
fbrm have their own as yet unperceived continuity,
and that both shape, form and component parts per-
form the continuous double function of maintaining
the individuality to which they specially belong, and of
linking the individuality with a Universality, individual-
ity raised to the nth power. At least via the
Akashic Records both shape and form do preserve
their continuity, and the conception of Akashic Records
is essential to my idea of an uninterrupted continuum
of progressive individual growth.
It may be said that I am not in line with occult
investigations as given. to us in our Theosophical
·literature. I do not for a !'flOment insist that I am
right. But I find it more satisfactory to build my own
life-structure with such materials as I have at my
disposal than to do no building on my own account,
rather letting others build for me, or being content
to dwell in a house not fashioned by my own con-
sciousness.
We may for one reason or another remain content
for some time to live in houses built by architects
far more experienced than ourselves. But in the
long run we must be living in dwellings self-fashioned,
having the sense, of course, to see how wiser people
than ourselves construct their own houses. I read
Theosophical literature in order' to see how a house
12
178 AN ADVENTURE IN CONTINUITY
might be built-1 do not say "ought to be built,"
because even our greatest builders in the outer world
are by no means yet perfect in their experience. But
then I must do my own building, even though I
·cannot follow the plans used by my seniors. So I
build my house as best I can, however unorthodoxly,
however much outside Theosophical or any other
conventions. I think for myself. I build for myself.
So alone, I believe, shall I learn to think better and
to build better : not by more or less blindly copying
the possibly far more beautiful mansions of others.
So is it that, as I am at present advised by my best
.understanding, I think of this uninterrupted continuum
.of progressive individual growth, and I should be very
.glad if I could find a eetter word than reincarnation.·
But we have become so steeped in the word-it has
become such a habit with us-that my brain is
numbed to the emergence of something better.
I do not want to leave any of my luggage behind
me, not even a physical particle. J do not want to
leave behind me even a bad habit or a weakness,
strange though the sentiment may seem. I do not
want to leave anything behind me, for I shall need
-everything, yes everything, for that universal helpful-
ness and understanding which is one of my goals,
though not the principal goal.
I can only take everything with me if nothing
becomes irretrievably dissipated, if everything which
-THE ESSENCE OF REINCARNATION 179
.has been me and mine clings to me for ever, or I to
~t, which comes in a way to the same thing.
Whatever I may have in the shop-window, on the
.counter, and on the shelves, I must have in my stock
.room all that I have ever been on every plane
.of living.
I shall need my present make-up, all that I am
physically, emotionally, mentally and super-mentaHy,
in every part of the future that awaits me. What I
am at this stage of my growth-please note that I
avoid the use of the word reincarnation-! must carry
forward with debit and credit account complete, for
I move on a line, or way, or direction, which has no
breaks. There are no countless points to constitute
my line, so that it may be seen as a number of inde-
pendent and dissociate universes.
AN ADVENTURE IN REDEMPTION-
THE RAINBOW WILL OF GOD 1
I DO not apologize for using the word " God " in'
my title because it is a useful word, and while it is.
liable to be misunderstood as possibly suggesting an
anthropomorphic; conception of Divinity, I am quite
prepared to run that risk.
In my own mind I always feel that, instead of there
being only one "o " in the word, there are, in fact,
twb, so that one spells God, G-o-o-d. That is how
I feel about God, apart from the fact that I know the
Person subsists in some spirit of personality, so far
as some of my Elders have told us.
INDIVIDUALITY-UNIVERSALITY OF PERFECTION
I am of the opinion that individuality is never
lost as we enter more and more into Universality,
and that the apex of evolution is in a wonderful
harmony and interrelation between the two, so that
the Perfect Man or the Perfect God is individual-uni-
versal. Who shall say whether He is more universal
1 Adyar, 1st September 1940.
-THE RAINBOW WILL OF GOD 181
than He is individual, or whether He is more
individual than universal. Even if we gaze into regions
higher than any of which we can have perception
at all, undoubtedly there is individuality.
So I like to think of God-which is a word which
-conveys as much my ignorance as my knowledge, far
more my ignorance than my knowledge-as the Per-
son-aspect in Him, as He must also have a Universal
.aspect. When I say He, I might as well say She-
'in fact, in those regions there is no language, save
possibly Sanskrit, which is adequate to the Universality
of the Divinity conception, and sex is resolved.
·COLOURS OF THE RAINBOW
To return to the title, "The Rainbow Will of God,"
1it is rather important to realize that this White Light
-of the Purpose of Life is composed of many colours.
Our evolution, for example, though from our point of
view, taking it in its universal aspect, is our white
light, yet from a still higher standpoint it is a colour
>in the Rainbow Will of the Universal God.
There are, of course, innumerable evolutions far
different from our own, but no less evolutions, each one
·sui generis with its own characteristics, its own modes
-of unfoldment. We can think of each one, therefore,
.as having its own colour. I am not able to suggest
what is the colour of each, but each has its own distinct
!place in the Rainbow of the Ultimate, and contributes
182 AN ADVENTURE IN REDEMPTION
its own rate of vibration, its own qualities, its own powe~r
to all the other evolutionary processes which combine
to make a Super-White Light of the nature of which,
of course, we .have no conception.
There is a colour for the evolutionary process in>
which we are at present engaged, there is a colour-
for every kingdom of nature, for every race, for every
people, for every faith, for every nation, for every
culture, for every Saviour, for every great Teacher,
for every individual. And, specifically, there is a.
colour for every changing time.
Each colour, of course, forms part of the Rain-
boVI Will of God, or of the Ultimate, if one prefers.
that word.
Also, all colours of the Rainbow are present at all
times, so that we have essentially the white light every-
;where and at all times ; and yet there is also a colour
in the rainbow for any particular time in the case of
any particular people, of any particular race, of any
particular nation, of any particular faith, of any partic-
ular Teacher. There is a predom nance of some special
colour, or if expressed in terms of music, a note, or
in yet other terms, a fragrance. All these terms are,
of course, interchangeable.
REFLECTING THE RAINBOW
It is largely our business to intuit, to discover, what
for the time is the dominant colour, the dominant
-THE RAINBOW WILL OF GOD 183
note, the dominant fragrance, and seek to become
a channel for that. In these days, more than perhaps
in most days, it is supremely vital for us to reflect in all
its purity the Will of God, the Will of the Hierarchy,
the Will of the Head of the Hierarchy, as best we may
be able to intuit it.
It does not for a moment follow that each one of
us must have the same intuition. There must be as
many rainbows of intuition or rainbows of activity,
rainbows of interpretation, as there is an infinitude of
colours in the rainbow we see in the sky.
So that, while it may be my dharma, my reflection,
to support the war and all the war means with all my
power, as I have been instructed so to do, it is not
for me to say that everybody must have the same
dharma. Each individual must seek his own dharma
and fulfil it in all humility, in all strength, in all assur-
ance ; but no less in all respect for others whose
dharma may be different, but is no less needed as a
contribution to the times and as the particular dharma
for which any individual may himself stand.
I want to insist upon the fact that in these times it
is the Freedom of God that must prevail over the
freedom of us all. It is in the service of His Perfect
Freedom that we shall find our own.
The time will come again when we shall be thrown
upon ourselves, when it will be our work to discover
ourselves and to realize and fulfil ourselves. Now is
184 AN ADVENTURE IN REDEMPTION
the time for us to discover Him, realize Him and fulfil
Him, but it is not for anyone to say how the discovery
shall be made, what the discovery shall be, how the
discovery shall be realized, or in what way the dis-
covery shall be fulfilled.
It is part of the tremendous service The Theosoph-
ical Society can render to the world, it is part of the
glory of The Theosophical Society, that we acknow-
ledge the existence of the Rainbow Will of God, in
the beautiful terms of Universal Brotherhood, and
seek to be that Rainbow, expressing the glory of its
colours in that First Object of ours which declares the
Universal ~rotherhood of humanity, and shall some day
declare the Universal Brotherhood of Life.
IN PERFECT FREEDOM
·- While it is my duty as President of The Theosophical
Society, and as an agent of the Elder Brethren, to
fulfil those instructions which have been laid upon me,
as Dr. Besant had to fulfil the instructions which were
laid upon her, while there are a number of reasons
why I have to do the work I have to do, and in the
way in which I have to do it, still must ever be guarded
the perfect freedom of every individual member of
The Theosophical Society to agree or disagree, to
accept or reject, to follow, or to go another way.
All I ask from every member of The Theosophical
Society is that he shall remember that these are
-THE RAINBOW WILL OF GOD 185
·catastrophic times, and that he shall do his uttermost
to seek out the duty he has to perform, and that then
without fear and without favour, in all courtesy, in all
friendliness, if'l all respect, without ever losing hold of
his adherence to the principle of Universal Brother-
hood, he shall say the word he feels called upon
to say.
The Society will indeed be benefited as we speak
the whole language of words, and not merely one
word or half a dozen words. We shall fulfil the pur-
poses of The Theosophical Society as each individual
speaks his own word, seeking that word in the heights
and endeavouring as purely as possible to reflect it in
·the outer world.
It is undoubtedly true that the majority of members
must needs just now be urged to favour the Allies,
.and to strengthen the war to victory as best they can.
Nevertheless, while there is His Majesty's Government
to undertake this work, there is also His Majesty's Op-
position. The difficulty, both with the Government and
the Opposition, is that the two forces tend sometimes
to assume that the one is right and the other is
wrong.
Let there be in The Theosophical Society a com-
.plete parliament of constructive endeavour with many
different parties and individuals with many leaders,
but unlike the ordinary parliaments, with a perfect
•Understanding between all the parties and all the
186 AN ADVENTURE IN REDEMPTION
leaders, so that ali are working for the Universal
Brotherhood.
I think the time is long past when we should waste
time in endeavouring to convince each othe~ that we
are right and that others in opposition to us are wrong.
That may be the work which has to be done in the
outer world-! think it is. But in the inner world of
The Theosophical Society we must never lose sight of
our duty to The Theosophical Society, and therefore
we must try constantly to think of the Rainbow that we
have the privilege to help to form. We must try to
rejoice in every colour of it, without any of us laying
down the law for others, however much we may have
to lay it down for ourselves. As Dr. Besant said some·
years ago, " There is no orthodoxy in The Theosoph-
ical Society.''
THE SECRET TEACHINGS
We have also to remember that we must never
impose the teaching of a Saviour of the world upon,
any individuals who may live in times succeeding His,
for while the truth of every Saviour is eternal in the
perfection of the White Light, we must never forget
that every Saviour speaks not only to the Eternal in
the world, not only to all times, but to a special time.
There is not a single Teacher who has not spoken,
to use the Christian phrase, " in secret," for the·
understanding of His followers who had in them the
-THE RAINBOW WILL OF GOD 187
power to respond to the Eternal, who were not mere-
ly concerned with time. We know how true it was
of the Christ, we know how true it was of the Lord
Muhammad, we know how true it was of many of the
great Magniflcences of Hinduism.
FACE TO FACE
It is so vital nowadays, in such times as these, when·
we are face to face with reality as we may not have·
been face to face with reality for a considerable·
period of time, that we should gaze upon the very
Person of the Saviour so that we may try to know Him
as He is and was, not through the medium of records
of His teaching which must be more or less distorted,
but face to face. Only those who come face to face
. with their Lord can know His Truth and follow it.
To come face to face with the Christ, as every
Christian can, is to know Him as He is not disclosed
in any Christian Scripture. It is the same, of course,
with every gre~t Teacher.
In such times as these, when these great Teachers
are speaking to the world once more, even though
not in physical incarnation, when the great Galaxy of
the Hierarchy is nearer to the earth it rules than it
has been for a long period of time, it is our bounden
duty to seek to know the Member of the Hierarchy
of Rulers who is our great Leader, or possibly some
Member outside the Hierarchy who is our great Leader.
188 AN ADVENTURE IN REDEMPTION-THE WILL OF GOD
THE RAINBOW OF REDEMPTION
I would end this talk by urging that each individual
should strengthen in himself his own Divinity, his own
will, his own unique purpose, seek to be himself, be
no reflection of his external surroundings, not even
merely a vehicle for his present and particular in-
carnation.
In these great days each one must seek out his own
greatness-and each one of us has greatness in
him-and cause that greatness to help him discover
the Will of God, as it is intended he shall reflect it.
Then gloriously, happily, feeling he has found his true
vocation, he will reflect that Will, leaving others to
reflect in their own way that aspect of the Will
entrusted to them, so that the Rainbow of Life's
Redemption may shine over the sky of the world .
today and help mankind and every kingdom of nature
to find Peace, to contribute to Peace, to make Peace
strong and invincible, by themselves living it, and
by spreading it abroad in all strength and healing.
AN ADVENTURE IN SIMPLICITY-
A FUNDAMENTAL KEYNOTE 1
THE more I try to understand the situation in which
we find ourselves in the world today, the more I feel
convinced that this is an occasion, a period in the
history of the world, in which the pendulum of living
swings from complexity to simplicity. I feel very
strongly that especially during the coming critical years,
as I believe the coming years are likely to be, we need
to present our Theosophy, our truths, our teaching,
in the most simple form that is at our disposal.
We cannot reduce our Theosophy to its essential
simplicities unless we ourselves are more or less in
the habit of leading simple lives, unless we ourselves
have reduced through experience, as well as through
study, the great teachings of Theosophy to their
essential and indeed most simple meaning.
Anyone, I think, who has had contact at all with
the Elder Brethren personally, or in Their collective
capacity as a body, is immensely struck by the simple·
1 Adyar, 11 December 1938.
190 AN ADVENTURE IN SIMPLICITY
.and direct uncomplex way, not only in which They
.live Their everyday lives, but also in which They face
the problems of life, penetrating right into the heart
.of those problems, and thereby showing the way out.
I am afraid lest there may be a tendency through-
·OUt the whole of the Theosophical world, not merely
throughout the whole of The Theosophical Society,
for us to be top-heavy and to concentrate our Theos-
ophy largely in the mind, not enough in the emotions
·and not enough in the intuition, and surely not enough
·in the will. This is a complexity-loving world.
·GREAT TEACHERS SPEAK SIMPLICITIES
Personally I should not hesitate to say that the
work of every Saviour, of every great Teacher, has
always been to bring the world back to those essential
·simplicities which are the final fruit of all study and
of all experience. If I think of the lives of the great
·Teachers, I see that while in secret They may have
·taught complexities to those who were old enough to
-grasp the complexities and to perceive and extract
,therefrom the essential simplicity, when They faced
·the world They spoke simplicities.
,QUR THEOSOPHY MUST BE SIMPLE
I feel we ought to be careful, as members of The
l"heosophical Society, not to allow our Science to
.remain too abstract, too complex, too difficult, one
-A FUNDAMENTAL KEYNOTE 191
might even say too scientific, but through our own
experience, through the drawing in of the great
Science of Theosophy into our own daily lives, to
cause it to be presented to the outer world in all its
essential direct simplicities.
Of course we must study, we must enter into those
aspects of the Science of Theosophy which to us
seem complicated because we only know them intel-
lectually. That is inevitable. We must try to understand.
We must at first understand with difficulty, perceiving
how complicated from one point of view the whole
great Science of Life is. But we must all the time
realize, in the midst of our recognition of the com-
plexity of life, how it is only because we do not really
know that we do not perceive the essential sim-
plicities. And I should like someone with a vivid pen,
with a clear resolved understanding of Theosophy, to
set forth our science in simple words which the whole
world can understand without difficulty, whether the
world believe or not.
You can never expect the truth you give a world
to be understood by the generation in which you live.
I think it is against the Law of Providence that an
individual should, save most exceptionally, be honour-
ed by the generation to which he belongs. He can
be honoured and understood more by the generations
which come after him. There may be exceptions,
but I should think that is probably the general rule.
192 AN ADVENTURE IN SIMPLICITY
To a world distraught as the world today is, we
must go as far as possible to present the penetrating
truths of Theosophy in all their one-pointedness, in all
their directness, in all their simplicity, their one-sylla-
bledness of language.
THEOSOPHY IS SIMPLE
I am well aware myself, so far as my own little
studies are concerned, that the deeper I penetrate
into consciousness, the simpler it is. Whatever form
the simplicity may take, it is complete, it is direct, it is~
as it were, the White Light without any complications
of rainbowdom.
If you think of any piece of music, though you may
revel in its richness, in its beautifully related complex-
ities, at the same time, if you have any deep know-
ledge of the realities of music, you will know that the
whole of that elaborately painted musical picture has
one simple Source which the musician unravels for the
benefit of a complexity-loving world. I do not think
you can possibly understand a symphony, an opera, a
piece of music of any kind, be it melody only or be
it also harmony, unless you can perceive the one-
ness of it, the formula of it. There has yet to be
wntten a book of musical formulaa from which you
will be able to deduce the whole range of musical
expression even of the greatest musicians. The same
is true with regard to painting and all other arts, and
-A FUNDAMENTAL KEYNOTE 193
in fact with regard to any department of life, say
politics.
If one stresses simplicities and asks people to rest
·content with those simplicities, one is always met with
the answer, which of course has its own validity :
"We know all that; everybody knows that. People
want something upon which they can use their minds.
their highest faculties." Many people are convinced
that that alone is true which is complex and com-
.Piicated.
A person who can reduce his living to simplicity
.and his outlook on life to simple formulae is an indi-
vidual who has grown, even though he may have
.sacrificed richness, as some of us might think, to the
simplicity into which he resolves everything.
THE ESSENTIALS OF EDUCATION
In the field of education I am appalled at the com-
plexities with which we are endowing it at the present
time. We are not giving of our best to our pupils unless
we can help them to live great simplicities, and unless
.our own outlook is at the same time simple. We can
go much too far, I think. with our psychological exam-
inations or with our endeavour to decide as to which
temperamental Ray a pupil belongs. These things
matter less, and there are certain essentials which
matter much more. While of course we must not
altogether ignore those complexities which perhaps
13
194 AN ADVENTURE IN SIMPLICITY
are halting-places on the way to simplicity, we must
never forget the simplicities when we are moving•
towards them through the complexities.
TWO MAGNIFICENT SIMPLICITIES
This morning I was brooding over two of the most
vital of all simpliCities, those very fine and outwom ·
phrases, " God is love," and " God is Justice.'~
Everybody knows them, though there may be a few
who will challenge these truths. Above all the
Theosophist at least must know that " God is love,"
-and "God is Justice," in the very midst of the .,,
illusion that in the world as it is God can be neither·
Love nor Justice, for these do not reign. If
Theosophists knew their Theosophy so deeply and
fully that it had passed out of the regions of know-
ledge into the regions of the will, if such Theosophists
could take these simple statements and show their truth.
in the light of Theosophy, people would gain courage
and confidence without in the least degree feeling
that the saving of the world is not their affair. On.
the contrary, the moment you say : " God is love,"
and "God is Justice," you assert your own individual
responsibility in no uncertain terms. The Theosophist
could give those two sentences their true meaning;·
and cause his hearers to become more intimately ·
associated with them, as themselves Gods and part of
God, than they had ever been before. The same is.
-A FUNDAMENTAL KEYNOTE 195
true of the declarations : God is Truth ; God is
Reverence ; God is Understanding, Compassion
Friendship.
I can well believe that if one of us were to an-
nounce a lecture in the Queen's Hall in London on
the title "God is Love," either we might have a
hall full of people who were rocked in a particular
kind of emotionalism, or we might have to use a pair
of opera-glasses to perceive our audience. At the
same time I am confident that it is the lack I have of
a true realization of Theosophy that would make it
difficult for me to give a lecture on " God is Love."
But such lectures are more important than any other
lectures we could possibly give. Do we not all want
to know that " God is Justice,'' and have it demons-
trated to us so that we may participate in that truth ?
The whole value of Theosophy is to make those two·
truths obvious. The difference between Theosophy
and other modes of explanation is that while some
explanations keep God over there, Theosophy brings
God into our very midst and makes us one with Him.
HEAVEN IS SIMPLE
And after all, the heaven from which we all of us
have come, and the heaven to which we are all of us
moving, each to his own particular heaven, is an extra-
ordinarily simple place. Even the youngest of you
here probably does not remember the heave~ which
196 kN ADVENTURE IN SIMPLICITY
lay about you in your infancy. You have for-·
gotten that heaven whence you came owing to our'
abominable system of education, which is not for
heaven-remembrance but rather for earth-immersion,
though in the true sense there is no difference be-
tween the two if only we had right understanding,
GOD IS SIMPLE
Our scientists now tell us that the Universe is a
thought, and I like to imagine that thought as very
simple, however complicated it may appear. I think .
that we may look upon God as a Happy Child with ·
simple toys, one of which is the essence of our uni-
verse. He is such a Child, and has such imagination,·
that He is able to produce a wealth of permutations
and combinations out of the little toys with which He•
plays so simply. With His colour, His sound and His
form toys He plays, and out of their combinations He
juggles a universe.
SIMPLICITY EMERGE$
If I could have all the richness of learning which,· ..:
as the years progress, I am certain I do not have, t
would hope that I did not stop short at the learning..· .
but reduced and reduced it, until I could say to thef :
world that out of an enormous complexity of study, '
QUt of tremendous searchings of t~e mind and higher
faculties, such and such simplicity emerges. I want m;. '
,',('
-A FUNDAMENTAL KEYNOTE 197
be able to give to others and t~ take away with me
essences, fragrances, attars, distillations, out of which
I can at any time evoke that from which they
have come.
Some day not only will the very learned people
understand Einstein, but every one will be given the
effective practical simplicity of his apparently deep
abstractions. There is something there I seem to see
that could be stepped down by the wise for the under-
standing of the ignorant, to be a tremendous practical
force for daily life. All of the richness of the
Relativity Theory could be distilled into its simple attar.
KARMA IS SIMPLE
It is the same with that tremendously complicated
problem we have in Theosophy. namely, the problem
of Karma. There is no problem with regard to which
we need to know more, but I am perfectly certain
that, when we really know what the Law of Karma is.
we shall say how very very simple it is. how naturally
it works. We shall know it does not require a ledger
with the innumerable 'pages of debit and credit. We
shall know that it does not require the most subtle of
adjustments, because the adjustments take place of
themselves in all naturalness and simplicity.
When one really understands the Law of Karma,
one might even say with great impertinence, and no
doubt also with a great distortion of the truth : " 1
198 AN ADVENTURE IN SIMPLICITY
cannot conceive for what the Lords of Karma are
needed. There is nothing for Them to do. Everything
is its own cause and its own effect. Everything works
out its own destiny. What can They do more than
to look on ? "
LET US SWING TOWARD SIMPLICITY
Let us be eager to swing with the pendulum into
Simplicity. Let us face a distraught world with our
simple yet invincible truths. Every Theosophist should
constantly be busy in his own department with the
reduction of all complexities into their simplicities as
quickly as he can. Take Science, where such wonder-
ful discoveries are being made and there is such a
nobility of endeavour and of result. We must be
busy in distilling these wonders into their practical
everyday meaning for us. There is nothing, however
apparently remote, which has not its practical value for-
you and me in our everyday lives, because the every- .
day life is the all, the world life, the Universal Life.
In The Lotus Fire I speak of a Point, the Microcosm-
r
Macrocosm. But this Point is as infinite as it is micro-
scopic. There is nothing which is not infinitely small
just as there is nothing which is not infinitely large.
Walt Whitman said : " I am large-1 contain multi-
tudes." He might also have said: " I am small-1
contain everything." Multitudes can be contained
within any dimensions.
-A FUNDAMENTAL "KEYNOTE 199
What I should like above all to leave as my heri-
tage as a Theosophical student is sentences, ideas
comprehensible to every one, which no one could
possibly forget. It is perfectly obvious that the great
Teachers-Shri KJ"''shna, the Lord Buddha, the Christ,
the Lord Muhammad-all have accomplished this feat.
In the sayings of each there is simplicity beyond com-
pare, though those simplicities are still awaiting the
understanding of the world. I should like to be
a step towards their understanding by expressing
their soul at my own particular humble level.
I would certainly say to all young friends here who
desire, if possible, to help to lead their own partic-
ular country to the finer living that awaits it, that
they should deliberately train themselves to know all
they can, to study all they can, to understand all they
can, but constantly to be resolving the study and the
knowing and the understanding into simple terms for
simple daily living.
You young people can do it. It is more difficult
for us older people. You can do it if you have the
will and if you have in you the spirit of dedication
which is willing to sacrifice convenience for service.
We need a band of young people today who will
lead dedicated lives, who will be great students, who
have deep capacity to make simple the whole of life
for the easy understanding of those who, having to
live, have such difficulties in the living.
ADVENTURES IN THANKFULNESS 1
THERE are very many things in the world today-
dark spots and patches-which we look upon with
regret, with unhappiness, and often, of course, with
anxiety. But there is so much occasion for thank-
fulness that I think it is sometimes worth while to
remember one's thankfulnesses in the midst of all these
unfortunate preoccupations in which necessarily we.
must live at the present time. I like to add up my
thankfulnesses from time to time. It is so wonderful,
so beautiful, so delightful, constantly to be thankful.
Here are some of my thankfulnesses, though perhaps.
they are not in their proper order :
1. MEMBERSHIP OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
I am very thankful that I have the sense to be a
member of The Theosophical Society, and I pray to
God, no matter what the provocation, I may never be
so foolish as to resign, though it might be quite re-
freshing to be expelled, as Mr. Jinarajadasa was ex-
pelled, though I have never had that fortune. But
1 Adyar, July 1940.
THANKFULNESS 201.1
may I never withdraw from The Society, may I be-
faithful to the end of this incamation. I am not one
of those who think an incarnation would not be worth
living unless I were a member of The Theosophical·
Society. H.P.B., the greatest Theosophist of us all, is.
not a member in her present incarnation. So Ishall not
be particular about trying to rush over the world to·
find a Theosophical Society or a Theosophical family-
in which to incarnate, though I shall ever want to be
permeated by the spirit both of Theosophy and of
The Theosophical Society. I am tremendously thankful
to be a member of The Theosophical Society, and ~
want to cherish its membership ardently. It is said
that familiarity breeds contempt. I do not want to
take my membership of The Theosophical Society for·
granted but I want constantly to be thankful for it.
2. MEMBERSHIP OF AN INNER SCHOOL OF
OCCULTISM
Following from the first thankfulness, I am thankfuE
that I am a member of an Inner School of Occultism.
and all that such membership implies. My member-
ship of The Theosophical Society brings me within the.
great Universal Brotherhood of Life. My membership
of this School brings me within the marvellous heart.
of that Universal Brotherhood of Life, namely, the
Elder Brethren, the Inner Government of the world.
and all that such truths imply-the magnificent truths.
202 ADVENTURES IN
they disclose, the wonderful vistas that they give to
us. Having taken the step of membership of this
School, I must be no less ardent in cherishing it ; I
must not take it for granted, I must have no sense
of familiarity with regard to it.
My membership of this School must not become
a form of Sunday School to which o.ne goes on
Sundays and then forgets about it the rest of the week.
There is nothing more disloyal to the School than to
think nothing about it save in my attendance at
meetings and the practice of the rules and regulc;~­
tions. It is vital for me to have the spirit of my
membership of the School constantly in my mind.
It is very dangerous to be a member of many years'
standing of any occult School. If only we could
retain, maintain the fervour of our first admission,
when first we gained some positive conception of the
Elder Brethren and perhaps even recognized one or
another of Them as old Friends, when first we had
all the beauty, the delight, the wonder of member-
ship so very strongly round about us ! If only we
could retain this sense of the splendour of it all
after two, five, ten, twenty years, it would be
wonderful.
I am wondering how far most members of occult
Schools have retained the same fervour in which
perchance, with hearts beating strongly, they had that
flash of adoration of the Elders. I am hoping that to
THANKFULNESS 203
some the flash has grown even more dear, more to
be cherished, because of the nearer realization of a
link with the Elder Brethren.
3. TO LIVE IN SUCH TIMES AS THESE
I am thankful that I live in such times as these.
How wonderful to live in a world that is being remade,
reshaped, reconstituted with all the clash of forces,
with all the changing cataclysms which are beating
upon us all the time.
How wonderful, how refreshing, that you and I here,
en the midst of all these storms, have access, through
our membership of The Theosophical Society and in
other ways, to the mountains, that we may see the
purpose of the storms and the future that awaits
the world.
While some quite naturally see the dark side
in all that is happening, the terror, the sorrow, you
and I, with our privilege of membership of The Theo-
sophical Society, have access to the mountains where
the Elder Brethren• dwell, and we can begin to know
the Truth.
All this makes it wonderful for us to live in such
times as these, provided, to the best of our opportun-
ity and capacities, we participate fully in them. No
one should shrink from the nature of these times. Be
he an active worker in the outer world, or be he a
recluse in a monastery, he can still live in the times
204 ADVENTURES IN:'
and be a participant in the storms of the world. I am.
thankful that I live in such times as these.
4. MEMBERSHIP OF THE WARRIOR ADVANCE GUARD
To the extent that I have been preparing for such
times as these, I am thankful for the warrior spirit,.
the sense of being a member of an Advance Guard
of Humanity, as we all so positively are who are mem-·
bers of The Theosophical Society. While I am very
well conscious that I have not as keen a sense of this
warriorship as I ought to have, still I am deeply thank-·
ful to know that there is something for which to
fight, and that I have membership of a small body
which moves forward and makes clear and straight
the way for the vast mass, not only of humanity but
of all living creatures.
5. MEMORY OF A LARGER CONSCIOUSNESS
I am deeply thankful for such memory as I have of
the way in which the world grows, for a memory of a.
consciousness other than this consciousness here which,
is only a fragment of the larger consciousness in which,
I am in a measure able to participate and rejoice.
You and I down here are only fragments-sometimes,.
I fear, distortions-of the Real which is ourselves.
I am thankful, deeply thankful, for memory, for·
that power to become as many parts of myself as
possible, to become as much as I can of myself within.
"JHANKFULNESS 205
the limitations of my stage of evolution, to be no
.longer circumscribed within the waking consciousness
.of the physical plane, but to a certain extent to be
.able to go further inwards so that I can remember
what so many of us tend to forget.
.6. UNDERSTANDING AND APPRECIATION
I am thankful for such understanding as I may
,possess, so that I may have an understanding which
mellows into appreciation of everything that is different
.from myself.
Warrior as I try to be, I may sometimes appear
unwarrantably to lay down the law, to try to be
uncompromising for that which I have every reason
to believe for myself to be the Right. That I may
.have the right and the duty to do. But I must do
it with all possible wisdom, and I must never try to
kill the understanding of those who are making
their way to their Divinity no less than I am
.making mine.
J.. ASSURANCE AS TO THE FUTURE
My last occasion for deep thankfulness is for the
·fact that I have some peaceful assurance as to the
future. I have no doubt, my certainty today is, that
the Allies will win. But could that certainty be disturb-
.ed supposing they did not win? Indeed not. I have com-
plete confidence in the Inner Government of the world.
•
206 ADVENTURES IN
They love the world far more then I could ever love the
world. They have the interests of the world far more
at heart than I or anyone could ever have. They
are the Friends of the world, the Helpers of the
world, the only true Guardians of the world, and in
Them I place my perfect trust.
I may reflect what I believe to be Their Will in my
certainty that the Allies will win. But suppose that
Britain be overwhelmed and that India come into the
hands of the enemy and have perpetrated on her those
crimes that are now being perpetrated in other lands
(which God forbid), still I pray and I believe that so
much shall I be centred in the consciousness of the
government of the Elder Brethren that I should say :
" Well, it is necessary for us that we should be so
chastised. So must we learn our lessons if we cannot
learn them otherwise.'' Sure am I of the love of
the Elder Brethren and that They are ceaselessly
cherishing the world.
They are dedicated to bring the world to peace
and happiness, and so will They do. It is part of the
very Vow that an Elder Brother takes when the occa-
sion comes for Him. He pledges Himself to the
world, and that pledge is not merely a hope, an
aspiration, but a certainty. While I do hold, I do
believe, I do say, that the Allies will win, I do say
that India is on the threshold of her freedom, still if
I have misjudged, if I have mistaken the situation, my
THANKFULNESS 207
faith in Them will not be less. It will only be to the
intent I shall know more about Them.
The anchor for every one of us is that wonderful
conception of the Inner Government of the world.
We may not be able to spread that conception abroad
in all the meaning that it has for us. But we can
give our assurance, wrapped up in whatever forms
may seem most appropriate, that God is working
His purpose out, no less in the darkness than il")
the light.
So with my seven thankfulnesses I go on my way,
at ttmes, ot course, with ignorance for the moment
gaining the upper hand in whatever way ignorance
.may express itself. If there were not times when
ignorance gains the upper hand, if there were no·
defeat, there would be no victory. If there were·
not times when defeat hurls us down into the dark-
ness, there could not arise those tremendous victory
flashes up into the light.
I do not pretend that I can keep my assurance
absolutely undimmed, but I can say it is never absent.
Even when ignorance sheds its darkness round about
me, still there is a little centre of light that refuses
to be extinguished.
I know you have your thankfulnesses, though very
likely they are not the same as mine. These indeed
:208 ADVENTURES IN THANKFULNESS
.are my major thankfulnesses, though there are' others
no less precious. I do not say that I cling to
them, because they are part and parcel of myself.
I am eager, however, to have them present in every
,phase of my consciousness, that from thankfulness
.I may rise to thankfulness, so that I may eventually
.become at long last, in a far-off distant future, one
with that Supreme Power that expresses His Love in
terms of a mighty benediction of thankfulness He
:gives to His family throughout His Universe.
AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH-TOWARDS
.UNDERSTANDING 1
THERE is much talk of Truth nowadays, much bandy-
.ing about of the word, much writing about Truth,
much exhortation, much emphatic language.
We are told that Truth is here or there or elsewhere.
We are told that we shall find Truth in such-and-such
places, perhaps in such-and-such places alone. We
.are told that it is useless to look for. Truth in such-and-
such regions, or that the road to Truth is such-and-
·such, or even that there is no road to Truth, there
·can be no road to Truth. Hence there is much
·Confusion, for each one who speaks is inevitably so
sure, so supremely satisfied, so dogmatic, so separative
.and exclusive. " I know." " I am." " I have dis-
covered." " I declare." " There is." " There is not.''
" Here is." " Here is not." And thus there seems to
arise mutual contradiction, and the humble, modest
but uncertain seeker after Truth, swayed by these
whirlwinds, becomes confused and falls into a condition
1 Written some years ago.
14
210 AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH:
either of dogmatism or of irresolution, according to·
his temperament, both equally unsatisfying to him in.
the long run.
THE CHALLENGE; OF AUTHORITY
Such a humble but eager seeker after Truth has.
set his feet, or has had his feet set, upon a roadway,
and while travelling has thought he has gained pearls.
of great price. Authority may have placed him on.
the roadway, yet has he found, or so he thinks, a·
wealth of Truth.
And now there comes to meet him that which•.
shakes his confidence, such as it is, either in the way
or in the wealth-and what is the way but the wealth,
the wealth the way ?-and disturbs his peace and
contentment. What is it that shakes him ? Perhaps.
an external authority, person or principle, but certainly
his own instability, whether justifiable or not. Perhaps.
the way he has been treading is not for him, at any
rate for the time. Perhaps he has failed, for the time,
to realize that the way he has been treading is indeedl
his. Though Truth be everywhere, the Truth where
he happens to be may not yet be for him, and he
must seek elsewhere. Or, though indeed it be for·
him even now, he may be unable to realize the fact,
and thus must leave that which might be his, only to
return when, by going away, he discovers there was.
no need to go away.
-TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING 211
In any case, an uprootment. Authority without
and instability within have removed him from a road-
way. Further experience may keep him off it, or the.
authority which removed him may keep him away.
Authority gave. Authority has taken away. Blessed
be the name of authority! And another authority,
with acquiescence from within, may in the future place
him elsewhere, or even on the same roadway again,
while yet another may remove him once more, until
. ? I am not decrying authority. I am not for
the moment concerned with authority. I am con-
cerned with an answer to that question H until. . ~ . ? H
"TRUTH IS WITHIN OURSELVES"
What is Truth ? Where is Truth ? I would give one
answer to both questions : All is Truth. All is Life..
And Life and Truth are one. Is there then no need
for search ? In one sense, no. Is there then no
need to distinguish between Truth and untruth ? Jr.
one sense, no. How, then, are we to discover
Truth, to know Truth ?
My answer is : Not by condemning, not by reject-
ing, not by aloofness, not by dogmatizing; but by
understanding. To understand is to have discovered
Truth, and to know Truth. Where we do not under-
stand we do not know, we have not discovered.
Where we do not understand we have still to weigh
and judge and criticize, we have still to choose,
212 AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH
Where we understand we appreciate. He who
understands most has most of Truth. He who ap-
preciates most has most of Truth. Truth is not some-
thing which is particularly and perhaps exclusively this,
or that, or something else. Truth is not something
which is here but not there. Truth is Life, and Life
is everywhere. The nature of the form or place or
time matters not, for all these are Life. The nature
of the life matters not, for all life is Life.
But, you will say, surely such a conception involves,
demands, inertia. If, wherever we are, there is the
Truth, what more do we need, where need we go? In-
deed is this so. The man of understanding needs not
to travel. Remaining at home-be this home of what-
ever nature-yet may he know Truth. And in his
bome is all Truth. Nevertheless, understanding comes to
most from travelling, from moving from place to place,
from not recognizing or from forgetting Truth here or..
there and so proceeding to look for it elsewhere ;
·from staying awhile with this Truth, awhile with that
Truth, awhile with another Truth, awhile with many,
many Truths, until ... ? Until he finds them all the
same, all wonderful, all complete, all eternal and uni-
versal. Then does he learn that though staying at
home, yet may he be everywhere. Then does he
learn that, understanding the Truth at home, he knows
all Truth abroad. Then does he learn that all Truth
abroad is within his home, whatever this home may
-TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING 213
be, however it may be formed, or shaped, or fashion-
ed. Then does he learn that there is no abroad for
him, since all homes are one. He may live in an
idea. He may live in a thought. He may live in a
feeling. He may live in an aspiration. He may live
in a church. He may live in a flower. He may live
in a tree. He may live in a rock. He may live in a
faith. He may live in reason. He may live in
emotion. Live he how he may. he lives in under-
standing. Hence he lives in Truth, in all Truth, for
understanding has no limitations, no barriers. no walls,
no exclusions, no separateness.
WHAT IS UNDERSTANDING?
Understanding is Truth. Is there another Truth ?
.Is not understanding unification, identification, realiza-
tion, the mergence of time into Eternity, the recog-
nition of Life as one amidst the illusions of many-ness?
Is not understanding the drawing within the glowing
warmth of the heart, of that which is understood ?
Is not understanding the eager recognition of a com-
radeship which, as the understanding becomes univer-
sal, itself becomes universal, and whi~h naught then
can break, since there is naught outside it?
The whole world is asking to be understood. The
whole world is ours for the understanding, is ours.
To understand is to have achieved. And even though
we needs must travel away and away and away, yet
214 AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH
the "away" is but the way in which, perceiving the
many, we come at last to know the one ... and find
that there has been no "away," only the stringing of
innumerable jewels upon the single thread of Life.
Distance, space, time, form-all these are the means
that Life employs to assure to itself unerring, unceas-
ing, unchanging recognition. Life Eternal assumes
the garbs of distance, and Life the Pilgrim learns to
recognize the Life within each garb. Life Eternal
assumes the garbs of space, and Life the Pilgrim
learns to recognize the Life within each garb. Life
Eternal assumes the garbs of time, and Life the
Pilgrim learns to recognize the Life within each garb.
Life Eternal assumes the garbs of form, and Life the
Pilgrim learns to recognize the Life within each garb.
like moves to like through the illusion of the unlike.
Unity declares itself amidst the illusion of difference.
THE REALIZING OF TRUTH
Understanding, then, the essence of Truth, is the
sense, the realization, of identity, the supreme realiz-
ation of all realizations-that Truth needs not to be
sought , for Truth is everywhere. Understanding is
Truth meeting Truth, is Truth knowing Truth, is Truth
within perceiving Truth without, is Truth flowering into
unity from out diversity. The individual is himself
Truth, and where he perceives Truth, there is Truth
for him. And he is but perceiving himself. Where
-TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING 215
.he ·does not perceive Truth, there is not yet Truth
.for him, though there be Truth. And those who do
·not perceive Truth must wander, until, finding Truth
.somewhere, they begin to learn to find Truth every-
where. They may wander to themselves, within
themselves. They may wander far away. But they
must wander, that is, they must gaze upon garb
.after garb until at last they unceasingly perceive
:in a distance, in a space, in a time, in a form,
TRUTH.
And for a period they will associate Truth with a
1particular distance, with a particular space, with a
rparticular time, with a particular form. As time
.passes they will perceive Truth in garb after garb,
-denying it there, affirming it here, until gradually
they learn to become indifferent to the garb, so that
the illusion of garb ceases to be a hindrance to
·the vision of Truth. They perceive Truth in all
garbs, in those they once quitted, in those in which
they now are dwelling ; and they know that all
homes to come must needs be homes of Truth.
Then is their wandering over. Then do they abide
.in Truth everywhere. Truth comes to them through
all illusions, flows upon them ceaselessly as rivers
-.flow into the sea. They are Masters of Truth.
Let us wander if we will. Let us travel if we must.
Let us leave this and cling to that. So, no doubt,
.do we learn that ntlwhere is Truth not. So, no
216 AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH•
doubt, do we learn that Truth is no less where
we have thought it not to be than where, for
the time being at least, we have discovered,
it to be.
He who has thus found Truth has the universal•
freedom of Truth's forms, of Truth's times, of Truth's.
spaces, of Truth·s distances. Living in any form in
Truth, he ceases to be bound by form. Living in,
any time in Truth, he ceases to be bound by time.
Living in any distance in Truth, he ceases to be
bound by distance. Living in any space in Truth,.
he ceases to be bound by space. To him there is
no meaning in the cry : " Come away from your·
forms, from your times, from your distances, from.
your spaces. To him there is no meaning in the
cry : "There is no Truth in this direction or in that."
To him there is no meaning in the cry : "Truth is
here alone."
He knows that there is nothing from which to go·
away, nothing to be discarded, but all things to be
understood. He knows that, where he is, there may,.
there shall, he realize Truth-the Truth that is fr~edom,
the Truth that is joy, the Truth that is power, the
Truth that is peace, the Truth that is wisdom. All
these are where he is ; and only if he be blind to·
them where he is need he wander forth to where the
light for him is stronger. Darkness is our blindness,.
not any absence of Light.
-TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING 21T
WAYS TO TRUTH
Often we seek Truth by processes of exclusions.
Here is the Truth, not there. Come away from where·
you are. The Truth is not where you are. Come
here. Be this, not that. Yes, Truth is to be found
in movement. Yet let us take care to remember
that Truth is no less to be found by processes of in-
clusions. The Truth is where you perceive it not. The
Truth is there and there and there, even though you
deny 1ts existence there and there and there. Where
is Truth not? If you cannot perceive the Truth which
indeed is where you are and what you are-there are
no deserts of Truthlessness-then go away, discover
places where Truth is clear to your vision. Go away
from places which to you are deserts and dwell in
places which to you are oases. Abide in these, and,
if you must, declare that elsewhere Truth is not, not
where you have so far been and thought you had
found it. Deny to Truth, if you will, if you must, its
universality.
Yet some day, from pursuing the Path of Exclu-
sion, you will enter upon the Path of Inclusion, and
where you had thought there were deserts you will
discover oases. Some day you will return to all your old
homes and find Truth in each of them. You will dis-
cover that it is you who have been blind, not that Truth
has not been there. Some day all Life will be a home
to you, and as a God you will live in Truth in all things.
218 AN
Meanwhile if you must, if you
.away from where you are-perhap
ent way to know Truth. But as
'not try to remember that, though
forth to seek Truth, yet Truth is
.Life is everywhere and therefore
Could you not retain as you go !
that in some way-dim and obsc
you are not really leaving Truth,
non-Truth ? Say if you will : " Truth
.in that." Say, if you will : " Truth
mine and in these ceremonies and
you will : ·' Truth is in no church,
.no forms. Truth is in the gardens, :
~n the open spaces, by the seas anc
Nearest am I to Truth when I am 1
Say if you will : " In such and such <
all the glories of Truth." Some will
all Truth. I am Truth."
Still, can there not be some p
"And yet Truth is, even where I d
I must needs travel ; yet is travl
discovery of Truth ? I must needs
here and not there ; yet somewher
is here and there." Can you not f
and yet remain ? Cannot some p
all of you, go. . . and some p<
behind? Or, shall I say, can yo1
-TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING 219
perhaps take with you the old homes as you journey
forth to the new ? Is not this perhaps the truly inevit-
.able way of travelling, even though we do not realize
it-not to leave behind, but to take with us, even
though we think we have discarded ? So that, some
day, we shall make the Great. Discovery that we are
-ever wherever we have been, where we are, where
we shall be. In any case, who among us is to sit in
judgment and say: "Truth is in reality here, but not
there '' ? Who has Truth in his sole keeping ? Who is
.all Truth ? Who dare judge for another ?
TRUTH IS EVERYWHERE
The most that even the supremely Truthful among
•US shall dare to say, inasmuch as they know Truth in
all its innumerable guises, must surely be : " You know
in your. Object of Worship but a fragment of the
Truth. Far more Truth is there where you are than
_you at present perceive. You know but a part. Be
more .eager and you shall perceive more, you shall
.become more Truthful, until you realize that the Truth
_you now know is but darkness as compared with the
Light of which it is a fragment, a shadow, in one
sense even a distortion ; for the part alone gives but
.a dim impression when divorced from that without
which it must naturally be incomplete.''
And the supremely Truthful will also say to us:
"Go where you will. Seek those places where the
220 AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH
Light shines for you. Leave the places which to you
are dark. Yet forget not that, to the wise in the world,
there is no darkness at all ; for Light is everywhere
and is perceived everywhere by those who understand.
The wise condemn not the homes of others, but seek
if perchance they may guide them down into the
greater depths of Truth within such homes."
The Message the world needs today is that the
whole universe is a mine of Truth, and that whereso-·
ever a man diggeth, there shall he find Truth. But
he must dig and must keep on digging, for the more
deeply he digs the more profound the Truth he will
obtain. Where every man is, there is the Truth-
this is the Love of God, this is the Joy of Nature, this
is the Strength· for all, this is the Promise for all.
Where a man is, there is Truth, whether he perceive
it or not ; and if he would go elsewhere, there,
where he goes, awaiting him, is also Truth for him.
For Truth never fails. Truth never leaves us alone,
but waits patiently on our understanding. Truth is
man's closest friend, is with him everywhere, dwells in
those places whence he departs, yet is ready to greet·
him whithersoever he goes.
Truth is close to us where we are, and also close·
to us where .we go. It is for us to fulfil Truth, to
realize Truth. Nowhere is there Truth which cannot
be fulfilled, nowhere Truthlessness, everywhere Truth-
fulness. To some, sometimes, fulfilment and realization>
-TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING 221
where they are. To some, sometimes, fulfilment
.and realization elsewhere. To some there must be
·constant adding and constant subtracting, finding
Truth here, no longer finding it or perchance forget-
ting it ; going elsewhere and finding it, and then
perchance no longer finding it or forgetting it ; and
so on and on until. . . To some there is ever an
adding, never a subtracting, again until. . And
when some declare in ecstasy : " Ah ! here at
last is the heart of all Truth. Elsewhere but the
shadow, here the Real," the wise, the Truthful,
will answer : " Of course, for where is not the
Truth ? You could not find it there, but there it is
no less than elsewhere. You rejoice because you
have at last perceived it. Yet Truth is whence you
have come." And the wise may wonder how
many more homes of Truth the wanderer must
visit until. ..
IHE RIVER OF TRUTH
But there is a question to be asked : In what abode
of Truth shall a man dwell, whether for a brief time
or for an age ? And the answer is : In that abode
wherein the more he dwells the greater his con-
scious fulfilment of Truth, the greater his realiza-
tion of Truth, the greater his sense of Life, the
greater his sense of Freedom, the greater his sense
of Peace and At-One-Ment, so that he perceives
222 AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH
himself to grow from more to more. When his
power to discover ceases, when he ceases to be con-
scious of growth, then the time may come for him to
prospect elsewhere ; but he alone can determine
wher-e he shall dwell and for how long he shall abide.
Nevertheless at long last in some abode or other, and
with the accumulated experience of other abodes, of
other seekings and findings of Truth, he will have dug
down to such profound depths that he will reach in
triumph the One River of Truth whereby all soil above
is nourished and fructified. And then he will begin<
to perceive the River nourishing and fructifying that
which he has left no less wondrously than that to
which he has gone.
And perhaps there is another question : May he,
should he, at any time return to some abode of Truth
which to him was once a desert ? To this the answer
is : No man can live and grow in a desert. Where
there are places which are deserts for him, there
should he not be, until. . ? Until he knows, as
God knows and as the Gods know, that there are no
deserts. Then he will be free of all abodes, for none
will be deserts. But should he return to a desert, or
continue in a desert, he must eventually wither and
go down into a death, though there may be others
who thrive no less than he would wither, since to
them the abode is an oasis and not a desert, at all
events for the time.
-TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING 223
INITIATIONS INTO TRUTH
Let it be remembered that all abodes, all experiences,
all forms, all times, all spaces, all distances, all beliefs
or opinions, all certainties and convictions, all doubts
and bewilderments, frustrations and disappointments.
are indeed initiations into Truth. The kingdoms of
nature, physica( life, desires, emotions, mental pro-
cesses, forms, movements, organizations, attitudes,
activities, aspirations-all are initiations, progressions,
into Truth. Some we can well perceive to be initia-
tions. To the Truth in some our eyes are opened.
To the Truth in others our eyes are still blind. Love·
we can well perceive to be an initiation into Truth,
whatever be the nature of the love. - But so is hatred
or fear. Health we can well perceive to be an
initiation into Truth. But so is disease. Truth in
hatred is the urge from self-weakness. At the sur-
face it is a violent sense of separateness and aversion
from something without. In the depths it grows into·
a violent sense of separateness and aversion from
something within.
Life is in hatred, because hatred is. Hence there-
is Truth in hatred. The wise know the Truth and can·
dwell therein as Masters of the Truth, guiding those
who as yet have not found the Truth in hatred to
quit the surfaces and go forth into the depths,
learning the lessons of hatred, for Truth clarifies,
intensifies, as we penetrate from surfaces and shallows.
:224 AN ADVENTURE IN TRUTH
into depths. Thence they may go away and journey
forth on the splendid conquest of Truth, some day
thus winning freedom of the Truth in hatred, as they
know that nowhere Truth is not.
Truth in disease is no less the urge from self-weak-
ness, from ignorance. At the surface it destroys. In the
depths it regenerates. The wise know the. Truth in disease.
In ignorance, too, there dwells Truth. Truth in
ignorance is the urge to Truth, for Life abhors, and
therefore contains within itself, a vacuum. At the
surface of ignorance Truth is self-satisfaction. In the
.depths, Truth is discontent.
So indeed is it with all forms, with all manifesta-
tions of Life-with all kingdoms of nature, all desires,
all emotions, all mental processes, all movements, all
organizations, all attitudes, all activities, all beliefs, all
certainties and convictions, all doubts and bewilder-
ments, all frustrations and disappointments, all aspira-
tions. And all have surfaces of Truth, all have depths
of Truth. From all surfaces let us depart, either
down into the depths or elsewhere to other surfaces
whence ways to depths are easier to our feet. From
all abodes of Truth let those who know them but as
prisons depart. There is ever open to us the Path
of Forthgoing. But there is also open to us the
Pathway of' 1Return. On both is Truth, and at the
end of both there is the One River of Truth which
js the heart and the fullness of Life Eternal.
-TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING 225
TO LIVE TRULY
To live truly is to live down into the depths of Life
from out the shallows. All things which are but
shallows, or come to be shallows for us, cease to the
measure of such shallowness to be true for us. Man
is made for depths, and must seek until he finds
depths, abiding in these until increase in stature causes
them to appear as shallows. Yet deptbs and shallows
are but circumstances of Time. They have no dis-
tinction in Eternity. As men grow in Truth, erstwhile
deep places become to them as shallows, and they
must inevitably depart from them. But some day
there shall be no shallows for them anywhere.
The Pendulum of Truth ever swings between Change
in Movement and Rest in Depth. Now we live in
terms of Change in Movement, now in terms of Rest
in Depth. Those who seek live in Change in Move-
ment. Those who have found live in Rest in Depth.
Yet there is no seeking without finding, for the
very seeking is of the nature of a finding, even if
there be no other. Neither is there a finding in
which the spirit of seeking does not abide. Move-
ment is the fruit of Rest in Depth and therefore the
seed of Rest in Depth. Rest in Depth is the fruit of
Change in Movement and therefore the seed of
Change in Movement. Where is Truth ?
The Pendulum swings !
15
THE ADVENTURE OF BEING IN LOVE 1
ONCE upon a time I remember to have been very
intolerant of lovers and of marriage. Marriage was
all very well for ordinary people, but extraordinary
people, who wished to dedicate themselves to the
Master's and the world's service, must be well beyond
these personal considerations. Love-episodes in
novels and love-scenes on the stage were unnecessary
exhibitions of worldly weaknesses, and my mind dwelt
on the vision of a band of workers far removed from
all personal emotion.
I have changed my mind. I now think that to fall in
'love under certain conditions is probably for most people
one of the few uplifting episodes in lives of drudgery
and of realizations which can at best be but partial.
THE IDEAL
To be surrounded by young ones who love us
:is another of these uplifting episodes, but my thought
is not concerned with these at present. Rather
am I thinking of the lover with Theosophy at his
command, with its strength to support him in dis-
appointment and its purity to raise his love to its
true value. To my knowledge I do not at present
I Written 25 years ago.
OF BEING IN LOVE 227
number any lovers in my acquaintance, but if I knew
any, and they came to share their joy with me, I
would ask the man to practise his Theosophy in her
service, for her protection, and through her strength-
ening influence, more usefully upon his surroundings.
And to the maid I would entrust the task of ennobling
her lover's ambitions, and of helping him to live his
daily life in greater purity and honour.
So the woman completes the man, as the man
completes the woman, though I grant the existence
of exceptional cases outside this general proposition,
just as I know that, more often than should be, the
wife antagonizes the husband, the husband the wife.
But my conception of true love between man and
woman, whether resulting in marriage or not, is that
it is designed to produce a peace strong in purpose.
Without it there may be peace without purpose or
purpose without peace, but, except among the highly
evolved who have transcended distinctions of sex,
only among those who know what it is to be in love,
and who have spiritual intuition as a means of uplift,
will be found a peace that the world cannot shatter
and a purpose that no failure can destroy.
Of course, the man longs for the maid to be in
love with him, as the maid tremblingly hopes for
response from the man to whom her heart is given-
thus their past lives speak to them. But the future
and Theosophy keep on whispering that it is enough
228 THE ADVENTURE
for each to be in love with the other, whether re-·
sponse comes or not. The Masters love Their world
and serve it out of love, though the world goes on•
as if it knew Them not. But some day it will know
Them ; and think, then, of the overwhelming aban-
donment to Them, knowing of Their patient watchful:
love while the world turned its face elsewhere r
Loving, loving, and going on loving-asking nothing;
in return ; no fretting because the world is not even•
looking at Them and uses all Their gifts as if it had,
a right to them.
THE EXAMPLE
The Masters serve the world because They love the
world, while the lover passionately asks that his loved,
one may give her love to him as his is given to her.
How different the world if she inclines her ear to-
wards him! The coming of the great World-Teacher,
Brotherhood, Karma, Reincarnation-all have a new
force and a new value ; at last he feels his unity with
the world around him, and all is joyous peace. At
last he knows that the emotion of love may open for
him the sense of unity in a wonderful and inexpressible
way. Love rewarded gives him all this, and even
before he knows his fate love with hope foreshadows
the bliss of love with certainty.
Does all this depend upon her attitude towards him?
Is he still at the stage, so commonly depicted in,
·OF BEING IN LOVE 229
•novels, at which her lack of love for him cuts him off
from her for ever? "Give me all or Iwill take nothing,"
cries the lover. She offers a little, perhaps much,
•but not all. What is to become of the lover ? The
·deepest longings of his soul seem shattered, and he
turns away as if she had injured him. A common
·experience this for many. Most recover from the
,blow, and some find someone else to worship, some-
·one else in whom the God-without appeals more to
their being than does the God-without in others. But
personally I want to bring Theosophy to my aid.
Theosophy is useless unless it helps in one of the
.most beautiful emotions of which man or woman is
.capable. I want my Theosophy to help men and
women to fall in love at their humble level as the
.Masters love the world at Their stupendous height.
·Can Theosophy do it? A mighty task it is for any
:science of the soul-to teach men and women to
.give without expecting a return. Natural science has
.been so long .insisting that all force must have ·its
.result, action and reaction, that we have so often ex-
.pected that force to be merely an investment. Vve
:invest force in someone, and expect the recipient of
the force consciously to send back force to us in return.
'THE MIRACLE OF THEOSOPHY
230 THE ADVENTURE:
even if his love arouses no conscious return. And.
when I say this, I mean that even our individual dis-
torted conceptions of the great realities, which we call·
Theosophy, are pure enough to do this. But the task
is hard, and the only way to accomplish it is to sit
down and face the question with the mind and the
intuition as well as with the emotions. My Theosophy
speaks to lovers in this wise : "You are deeply in.
love, and you hope and hope that he or she may be
as deeply in love with you as you are with him or her.
If your hope be realized, your troubles are ahead
instead of at your door. But suppose for a moment
that he or she does not return your devotion measure
for measure ; scientific and all other probability are·
indeed against you. How are you going to take the very
probable frustration of your dreams? Can you go on.
loving as before, or does your love depend upon the
payment it receives? Does a mother's love depend.
upon her child's affection for her? Wherein does.
your love, 0 lover, differ from a mother's ? " Now
the lover will at once seize upon the weak point in
the above argument, and reply that his or her love,
must needs differ from a mother's, and I agree. But
for myself I should long to be able so to love that I
might pour upon my beloved all that my nature could;
give, and rejoice to have made her path smoother,
even though I receive but a kindly glance as she,
passes by, perhaps' with head averted.
OF BEING IN LOVE 231
Theosophy opens the way to this, as do its various
offshoots which we call religions, by bidding us gaze
upon the great Lovers of the world and upon
the beauty of Their love. Indeed, Theosophy does
infinitely more for us in this direction than any other
science of the soul I know, for it tells us of great
Lovers living now and loving now, while religions either
give this power of love to God alone or draw their
examples from the past, ignoring the Perfect Men
whose love for the living world is the apotheosis of the
love of the lover for the beloved. They are loving
in perfect selflessness while you and I are loving as
best we can. They are Gods, but They are also
men. As They love now so shall we love some day,
and all the lovers in the world today are learning how
to love as God wishes us to love.
THE BUDDHIC TOUCH
And long before our love is perfect we shall gain
glimpses of its beauty to be, for from time to time a
beautiful and pure love directed to an individual will
carry us to the Buddhic plane, and make us for the
moment one with all : one with the leaf tosse~ by the
wind, one with the foam, the plaything of the wave,
one with the flower blessing its world with its scent,
one with the lonely and the sorrowing. Few of us
mav know thP. M::!~tP.r~ h11t th<> v::~ct """'inrit" nf th,.
232 THE ADVENTURE
recognize the identity of the God without with the God
within. In the early stages the Buddhic touch is but
fleeting, is but a memory almost lost in worldly care
and struggle. As lives pass, however, love becomes
purer and deeper, and some day pours forth so that
it spreads far and wide. The man in love begins to
love the world while the beauty of his love for the be-
loved still possesses him. But there is a further stage
when the world is loved for its own sake, apart from
all individual relations. When this time comes and the
man or woman has proved that love for the world is
strong and unquenchable, then comes that first great,
step towards perfect love-entry into the Brotherhood
at whose head are the Perfect Lovers. Henceforward
such a one, though united to the beloved of the heart,
belongs for Eternity to the world, and begins the heavy
task of growing perfect in love even as the Father in
Heaven Himself is perfect in love. But in each indi-
vidual· life, long before this stage, and I hope long
after too, there will be the lover to help the wanderer
on his way and to make for him an image-fleeting
though it be-of the love towards which he strives.
A VISION OF OUR GOAL
I reject, therefore, as unnatural my former view
that to fall in love is a weakness, almost a treachery
to the Master. To fall in love means an enormous
accession of strength, if only we take upon ourselves
·OF BEING IN LOVE 233
the task of purifying the love of its dross. Our love
may be returned. Marriage may be the result, and a
:smooth life gladdened by many joys. But Theosophy
:Strengthens us to bear the pain through which alone
true joy may come, the more splendid for the con-
trast. And if we go on loving when no return is
.made, the lower world may become empty of much
happiness that might have been ours, but the flame
-of an unrequited love kept burning brightly in service
and sacrifice not only brings us very near to Those
whose love has never yet been recognized, but opens
.the way for us to feel, endure and grow with those
whose lives are hard and sad. The return must come
·for all love outpoured. We seek the return from the
source towards which our love has gone, but all life is
one, and in His infinite love God teaches us of the
·Unity by sending us our reward-! can think of no
,better term-from other sources than the one to
which we look. Thus do we learn that as we feel
towards the one so shall we some day be towards all,
.and to be in love is an opportunity for us ordinary
people to practise an unselfishness in faint imitation
·of the love-sacrifice of our Elder Brethren, and gives
us vision of our goal while yet we are far away.
THE WAY OF SELF-SACRIFICE
I im::~nin<> th::~t ::tft<>r rP::tclinn whnt I have been
234 THE ADVENTURE
conclusion that their principal objective in life is to fall
in love, and that, having fallen in love, they may safely
trust to circumstances and time to build upon that
love a roadway to the Masters and to spiritual
ecstasy. With all emphasis I would assert that to
fall in love is not only as solemn an event as the
taking of a priestly vow or as the sacrifice of a
soldier's life for his comrades and his country, but
is the prelude, if rightly understood, to constant
practice in the direction of the merging of the
smaller in the larger self and a deeper under-
standing of life and its meaning. Lovers experi-
ence in anticipation some of the realities of the
future, and often fail to realize that these realizations
must be won through a self-surrender which should
be joyous because their lives for each other help to
tune them to the needs of the world. But surrender
must be made to the World-Self they do not yet
know, as well as to the individual self they know and
love, and the love for the individual must be the
beginning of a love for the world. To be in love,
therefore, is no matter for silly laughter or for
vulgar joking, nor is sex-instinct a substitute for love's.
intuition. Sex-instinct often seeks to dignify itself by
the name of love, but the awakening of true love is
as the dawning of the sun over a darkened world.
Let us not fall in love without rising in love
OF BEING IN LOVE 235-
How hard it is to live in the spirit of the ideals I
have set forth, is as clear to the writer of these pages
as it doubtless will be to the reader. Even where the-
course of true love runs smooth, it is not to be
expected that there shall be no roughnesses at all.
Still more, where love outpoured in the fullness of
the heart meets no answering rush, it is indeed a grim
task to bind the lower bodies in glad and willing,
homage to the selfless love of the Great Lover. But
a beginning must be made ; our affinity, or affinities,
through the ages (I believe each of us has one·
or more) must be purified through sacrifice before
being drawn for ever to the heart, and perhaps the
thoughts that have occurred to me may help some.
lover to face the darkness which comes when the
unreal is no longer mistaken for the Real, yet the Real,
must send its sunshine into the darkness of the soul's
ignorance.
Especially do I honour the lovers upon whom war
has cast suffering and anxiety. The man who knows.
that there can be no real joy in staying with his be-
loved when honour bids him leave her, who knows
that his love for her is never greater than when he·
hazards for the sake of duty a happy life with her by
his side ; the maid who rises from her lower self to·
become the visible spirit of the ideals in whose
service duty calls him, who bravely shuts out from
view-as only a woman can-the torture of suspense :
such as these are indeed practising that which I, per-
haps, can only preach. Great will be their reward,
for love becomes eternal when it but serves to spur
the lover to a nobler life rather than to make him
shrink from all that seems to mark the smoothness
-of its course. We who believe in Karma and Rein-
carnation know that a sacrifice which is shared
becomes in future lives a tie which binds for ever, .
.and it is almost harder to live with a love rejected
than to have lost the physical form in the sacrifice
which b~th have offered, for, while the present life
may have lost its gladness, the future has been made
certain. Death soon ceases to have the power of
separation over those who would rather face it than
live a life of shameful ease.
THE SIGN OF GOD'S PRESENCE
At this point I close. I feel utterly unable to
convey my conception of the beauty and power of
sacrifice underlying the wonderful sign of God's
presence manifested in the condition of " being in
love." Perhaps the subject is too sacred for words
of mine. Let me therefore leave it with those
beautiful words which give in a sentence all the prom-
ise and the glory of love :
" Greater love hath no man than this, that a man
lay down his life for his friends."
AN ADVENTURE IN CONSCIENCE-A CALL
TO HEAVEN 1
Conscience is born of Love.
-SHAKESPEARE
THERE have been many indications recently that the·
Elder Brethren are endeavouring, and probably have
been endeavouring· for some time before that
endeavour imprinted itself upon our intelligences,.
to stir, to agitate, individual, national and world
consciences.·
Conscience is the sum total of distilled experience.
From one point of view it is distilled, that is, avail-
able for our use ; but from another point of view
every experience is within our consciousness in all its
aspects, so that while conscience is the distillation of
experience, we have at our disposal, should we need·
it, and we shall need it ultimately, the whole of each
experience as it has come to us in all its varied
aspects.
Now would seem to be the occasion of an endeavour
to harness this conscience to the averting of the
evil influences of the day, those evil influences which·
are not merely those which we know and see, but are
1 Adyar, 19 February 1939.
'.238 AN ADVENTURE IN CONSCIENCE
:no less the accumulated evil influences of the world.
For example, as I think of Europe, I see a great centre
.of disturbance, war and hatred, not only reflecting the
prevailing situation in so many parts of the world but
also discharging part of the Atlantean influences, and
·causing to descend upon us those influences which
are still with us today just as are more modern forces.
We must seek to stir conscience in its individual,
:its national and its world aspect, that being more
.alert it may be more active in giving its power to the
aid of all that causes life to grow, and for the denunci-
ation of.. all that causes life to halt.
The first conscience that has to be stirred is the
,individual conscience. In each on·e of us there should
be stirring the fruits of the experience of incarnation
.after incarnation in the past. We should endeavour,
if we can, to vitalize that past in a present conscience
and apply it, because there is not the slightest doubt
·that upon the individual, as such, rests the gravest
.responsibility. We are still in the stage of having to
,perform the Yoga of Individuality, and in that Yoga of
Individuality one of the most potent of forces is the
·force of conscience, the force of " knowing together "
the sum total of one's experiences in the past, know-
ing as a whole, knowing in their collective aspects, in
their summation, the experiences which have given us
the strength we now possess and to which must yet
.be added experiences of a similar quality.
-A CALL TO HEAVEN 239
Part of the Yoga we ourselves could individually
perform would be to endeavour to probe down into
the depths of ourselves, and to try to perceive what to
us is conscience, what to us is the divine measure of
our own rectitude. We ought to be able to write
down, one after another, the essential laws of our
being, those laws which we cannot ourselves offend,
and the offending of which would be going against the
whole of the spirit of us. We must base all collectiv-
ity of whatever nature upon individual experience, and
each one of us must know who he is, what it is that
has given him his presellt stature, and how that stature
may be set forth in definite terms, so that each one
.of us may say : " I stand for this, for that, for the
other principle." It is not the " against " that matters
so much. It will follow inevitably that, if we· have
.certain great principles of living individual to our-
selves, there will flow from those great principles de-
nunciation wherever denunciation is necessary, but
affirmation after affirmation after affirmation is always
better than any denunciation. As we affirm, so does
-our force grow and penetrate. As we affirm the
light, so do we dispel the darkness. It is the positive
.affirmation which must come first, however much
denunciation may need to follow.
Not only is it necessary for the individual, national
.and world conscience to be evoked, for they all three
exist today. but it is also necessary that these three
240 AN ADVENTURE IN CONSCIENCE.
aspects of conscience should express themselves in
the way in which consciences have on supreme oc-
casions expressed themselves from time immemorial-
in a Call to Heaven to send down a God for the
relieving of earth.
If we think of any of the great Personages who-
have come down into the world to advance civilizatior11
in whatever department of life, we may also think of
them as being the response to a Call which has gone
from earth. It is true that Heaven may act without
the calling of earth, but if earth knows how to call,
and does call, then the action of Heaven becomes aiL
the more strong, all the more effective, because
Heaven and earth join together for the salvation of
peoples, creatures, all living things.
I feel that this gradual process of awakening of ar\1
individual, a national and world conscience is not only
therefore for the purpose of stemming the tide of
those dark forces which belong to the present and
also to past ages, but also to form and shape a voice
to which Heaven, the Inner Government of the
world, the Masters, the Rishis, shall respond, for
They have always responded to such a voice when-
ever it has been uttered in times gone by. And I
feel very strongly, first that we members of The Theo- ,.
sophical Society have a particular part to play, if we
care to play it, in stimulating our own individual con-
sciences, in helping others to stimulate theirs, in trying
-A CALL TO HEAVEN 241
to awaken and develop the national conscience, and
to stir the world conscience no less. We, as members
of The Theosophical Society, should have great con-
science-stirring power.
I also feel that as this voice becomes more articu-
late, the nearer shall we draw to the time when some
great Person-it has been suggested in our Theo-
sophical literature, Julius Ccesar-shall come to co-
ordinate the nations of the world, and bring peace
and plenty to their peoples and peace and prosperity
to the whole world. I cannot help feeling that the
coming of some great Person who can do such a
work need not be so very far off if we awaken our
consciences, if we declare our consciences as purely as
we can, and if while declaring them we may perhaps
denounce, without any spirit of hatred or aggression,
that which we believe to be opposed to the national
or world conscience in so far as it has already
gr.own.
The first work I think we have to do is to em-
phasize the pouring of individual, national and world
conscience into a Call-not necessarily an overt one.
The Call on the physical plane may not be as audible
as the apparently inarticulate Call on the inner planes.
But it must be definite, it must be deliberate, it must
be purposeful, impersonal. That is where members
of The Theosophical Society have a great advantage.
They are nearer to Reality.
242 AN ADVENTURE IN CONSCIENCE
have endeavoured to convey the atmosphere of
this Call in the following little piece written some time
ago for Conscience, entitled "The People Are Calling."
Naturally it lacks much because of the inadequacy of
the words-every word must of necessity be an im-
prisonment of a power-but I feel it has its personal
value, not as an intellectual dissertation, but in convey-
ing an atmosphere as a basis on which we can build
a superstructure of compassionate denunciation as may
seem to us to be expedient. Atmospheres matter
much more than words. Will matters much more.
The tide of the Spiritual Sea matters much more than
the quality of its water.
* * * *
THE PEOPLE ARE CALLING 1
IN every land the people are calling, be they
governed as they may, be their voice articulate or
inarticulate, for a Mal" or for a Woman who, under-
standing them and therefore loving them, will in all
selflessness and devotion lead them out of the present
darkness into peace and plenty.
In every land the people have grown tired of
parties and protestations, of programmes and princi-
ples, and above all of that fear and clinging to power
which find expression in subterfuges and compromises,
1 Conscience, 3 March 1939.
·-A CALL TO HEAVEN 243
~n negotiations and diplomacies, in agreements and
.appeasements. In .every land the people have grown
·.tired of their governments, be these governments
futile governments tinkering everywhere and achieving
.nowhere, or be they dangerous. governments tyran-
~nizing every citizen into helpless compliance with their
· oppressive disciplines. In every land the people are
struggling to be Free, but they do not know how to
be Free, and suffer themselves either to be cajoled
or coerced into slavish subservience.
!UNENDING STRUGGLE
In every land the people are strugglirig to be Free
--Free from government by brutality, Free from
9overnment by blandiloquence, always one or the
.other.
In every land many of the people, in some lands
1n'lost of the people, are unhappy. For some there is
..unending unemployment. For some there is un-
·ending privation. For some there is unending ill-
.health. For most there is unending fear and anxiety.
Where is the government in any land which is effec-
tively governing to the substantial diminution of all
·these?
In every land the people hate the idea of war-
the people hate the idea of even the youngest
citizens being taught to love war and desire it, the
,people hate the idea of its citizens being hounded to
244 AN ADVENTURE IN CONSCIENCE
fight for the causes of governments. In every land
the people hate the idea of the destitution of so·
many of their fellow-citizens. In every land the.
people hate the idea of unlifting fear and anxiety.
In every land the people desire to be at peace with
the people of every other land, to unite in mutual.
prosperity and peace.
In every land the people as a whole believe that
all governments, as at present constituted, are primarily
animated by the selfishness of the majority of their
members, in that their primary attachment is to their
own prestige and power.
In every land the people as a whole believe that
all governments, as at present constituted, are
secondarily animated by the will of the majority of
their members either to peace at almost any price, or
to Empire at almost any price-at any price save the·
price of their own individual downfall.
In every land the people as a whole are convinced,
that fear lurks in the heart of every government, and'
that fear and fear alone for the most part restrains a'
government either from righteousness or from wrong.
In every land the people know that it is govern-
ments that stand between them and the peace and
plenty they need so urgently.
Therefore are the people calling, be they governed.
as they may, be their voice articulate or inarticulate,
for a Man or for a Woman who, understanding them.
-A CALL TO HEAVEN 245
and therefore loving them, will in all selflessness and
devotion lead them out of the present darkness into
peace and plenty.
WHERE IS THE MAN?
In every land the call is beginning to find its
.answer.
The time shall soon come when in every land a
·Man or a Woman shall stand forth in answer to
the call.
The time shall soon come when government by
despotism shall cease to be.
The time shall soon come when government by
party shall cease to be.
The time shall soon come when government by
;interests shall cease to be.
The time shall soon come when government by
jingoism shall cease to be.
The time shall soon come when at last Democracy
shall come into her own, when in the peace and
prosperity of the individual the community shall find
its happy life.
!LET SOMEONE BEGIN
Let there be but one in every country to utter the
call. Ere long there will be many to join it.
Let there be but one in every country to dare, and
to be willing to suffer for his or her daring. Ere
246 AN ADVENTURE IN CONSCIENCE-
long there will be many to join in the daring and to·
be willing if needs be to suffer also.
Let there be but one to call to earth and to the·
heavens for justice to all, for peace to all, for prosper-
ity to all. Ere long there will be many to join in·
the call.
Let there be but one in every country fearless to·
begin, fearless to continue, fearless to suffer, and if
needs be to die. Ere long the people of every land'
will become one in brotherhood, and the people of
the world shall burst asunder the frontiers of selfish-
ness which keep them now apart. Ere long they shall!
join together, and the many nations shall establish the
World State.
THE CALL IS SOUNDING
Not yet has the Man or the Woman arisen. But
the call is sounding forth, and the answer to the call
is certain, as have the answers to such calls been.
certain from time immemorial.
Whence will come the Man or Woman ? It matters.
not. There is no caste, there is no creed, there is.
no class, there is no man-made rule or standard that
can confine the Man or Woman who answers the calls.
of peoples in distress.
Of the people such Men and Women are. For the:
people such Men and Women are. To each individual.
they .belong, and for the service of each they come.
-A CALL TO HEAVEN 247
They come to release the peoples who are prisoners
in, their prisons.
They come to speak the word of peace that shall
drive away all conflict.
They come to speak the word of courage that shall
drive away all fear.
They come to speak the word of plenty that shall
drive away all destitution.
They come to speak the word of brotherhood that
shall drive away all discord between races, between
nations, between faiths.
To every land a Man or Woman shall come, and
these Men or Women-these Men and Women-
shall form a company of elders to ensure the
peace and freedom of nations and of the whole
world.
It is not for governments to call. Governments
have no right to call.
It is for peoples to call, for theirs is the need-the
people of poor estate, the splendid suffering masses,
the villagers, the dwellers in the slums of towns
and cities.
It is for the oppressed to call, and for the destitute,
and for those who are ridden with fear and help-
lessness.
It is for those to call who have lost all faith in life,
to whom justice and freedom and leisure and suffi-
ciency and happiness are but words.
248 AN ADVENTURE IN CONSCIENCE-A CALL TO HEAVEN
It is for those who feel for such as these to call,
th.ose who feel a righteous indignation at all wrong,
those who are filled with a lacerating compassion,
those who feel as naught before the consuming
flames of woe.
The voice of the peoples is taking shape. The Call
is beginning to sound forth, and men and women
regenerators are waiting until the Voice and the Call
shall be so compelling that not only must they come,
but that with the compelling nature of the Call there
will also come a victory in which peace, happiness and
prosperity shall be ensured to the world for a long
time to come.
BECOME ADVENTURERS-SOLDIERS IN
THE MASTERS' ARMY 1
GOD is Love. It is a fact which we should all of us
do well constantly to remember and to try to under-
stand in the very midst of all of the hatreds which
:seem so often so overwhelming. If we can under-
stand this fact, if we have a real and positive and
,intimate sense of our messengership, of our agentship,
·then we can be veritable Don Quixotes, even though
we but tilt at castles in Spain, as the phrase is.
We want to become adventurers, happy adventur-
ers, confident adventurers, with a dear sense of the
•nature of our cause and with uttermost loyalty to it.
We do not know at the present time what the future
may bring forth. We do not know what catastrophes
1may lie before us. But we do know that the Elder
Brethren know all these things which are hidden from
'us, and we do know that into our keeping has been
·entrusted a little light for the piercing of the darkness.
We must see to it that the Light constantly shines
without the slightest dimming, whatever circumstances
:may betide.
1 Bombay, 9 November 1940.
250 BECOME ADVENTURERS.
HOLD THE FORT OF RIGHTEOUSNESS
We are soldiers. We are entrusted with the·
holding of a Fort of Righteousness rn the
outer world, that Righteousness which it has been
given us to hold. There may be other Righteous-
nesses which others have to hold. We have our
Righteousness, we should hold its Fort. It is so very
vital for all of us that we should be able to look back
upon these tremendous years with clear assurance
that we failed not, that we were true to our obliga-·
tions, to our dedications, to our loyalties, and were
never for a single moment overwhelmed, not even.
distressed, still less deflected by the forceful circum-·
stances beating about us.
Whether we are given one particular way whereby·
to help to hold the Fort of our Righteousness, or
whether we are given some other way, we must be
true to the way t_hat is ours. Some of us speak in,
public. Some of us write for public consumption.
Some of us lead lives in the open. Some of us have·
to do the best we can successfully or unsuccessfully-
it matters not-to sway, to mould, to fashion, public.
oprn1on. Others of us may lead lives which are more·
restricted from one point of view, though in truth no
more restricted from another. Some of us may live·
more in our homes and less in public, more in,
quietude and less in turmoils. But the service can be:
the same no matter what the circumstances of the·:
-SOLDIERS IN THE MASTERS' ARMY 251·
living may be. We can help to hold the Fort no.
matter what may be the way appointed to each one.
of us for the holding of it.
SUPPORT THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
But part of the holding of the Fort consists in doing.
all we can to support Theosophy and The Theosophical
Society, within the ranks of Theosophy and member-
ship of The Theosophical Society, but equally before
the world.
If people come to us and say : ••Such and such are:
the difficulties, such and such are the obstacles ;
whither is the world tending ? " we can say to these
friends : " All this may be true. Matters may be
going from the better in which they now are to the
worse in which they shall be. But our course remains.
clear and undeflected." And there can be no more
important work for any one of us to do than to stand
fonhe winning of the war, for India's essential parti-
cipation in that winning, and for India's early advent
to that status for which Dr. Besant lived and fought.
and died so magnificently.
The cause which she espoused at the command of
our Elders remains the same today. Whatever she.
has written applies with equal force today. It is
because of that and because the message of
the Elder Brethren is the same as it was, as.
it has always been during these times of crisis,.
252 BECOME ADVENTURERS
that have published a series of volumes enti-
tled The Besant Spirit, for it is the Besant Spirit that
we want in the world today. It is the Besant irresisti-
bility, a wonderful faithfulness to the end that is
wanted today. While you and I cannot hope to be
.as she was, we can look up to those mountainous
!heights upon which she dwells and we can perceive
.how we have to try to live ourselves.
It is a tremendous opportunity, and I pray that each
·of you is taking that opportunity according to his own
power. Of what use is it to be a member of The
Theosophical Society unless, having received these
·glorious gifts from the Elder Brethren, we look to
Them aJ'"Id seek to do Their Will which in very truth
:is the will of our own individual Higher Selves?
Let no one be afraid that he can only do a very
;little. There is not one of us who can do more than
.a very little. But if each one of us contributes his
·own very little, his own perchance insignificant little,
·he is adding to the volume of that force which some
·day shall achieve the End declared to us by the
Elder Brethren.
I hope in Bombay you are holding strenuously,
·eagerly, happily, confidently the Fort of Their Right-
-eousness. We in Adyar are striving to be as strong
.as we possibly can, as little losing the opportunities
which come to us as we possibly can. I hope the
:same is true of Benares. I hope the same is true
-SOLDIERS IN THE MASTERS' ARMY 253·
everywhere, for if we can stand alert, four-square to
the enemy, peaceful, confident, happy, undismayed
by all circumstances, of whatever nature they may be,.
the victory will come all the sooner.
Even though we may be, as I said a moment ago,.
as voices calling in the wilderness, even though our
voices may be humble and feeble, they can be
sincere reflections of the Voice of God. The wilder-
ness cannot remain barren forever when it is so
constantly being irrigated as it should be irrigated by
you and me with the waters which the truth of God
showers upon us like stars down here in the
outer world.
BE OF GOOD CHEER
So I say to you, Brethren, be of good cheer. Be
alert. Feel that you are marching to victory under
the banner of Generals who do not know defeat,
who have never known defeat, who will never
know defeat. Remember that They have chosen
you to be Their soldiers in this tremendous fight
-you and others like you throughout the world.
They have chosen you not that you may advance
for your own benefit, not that you may derive
personal strength and satisfaction from Theosophy
and your membership of The Theosophical Society,
but that, being filled with the power of these
two great Forces, you may send that power abroad.
:254 BECOME ADVENTURERS
It 1s those who are here today who are born into
this particular kingdom of the world to that
supreme End.
As for your personal advancement, it will come. It
is bound to come, but it will come all the sooner as
you forget yourselves, as you remember only Them.
Jf only at such a time as this you will give yourselves
to Them and be perfectly happy in the giving, with
perhaps now and then a moment of hesitation due to
the inevitable weakness of the flesh, but soon to be
,put aside ; if only you give yourselves to Them, you
.will enter, perchance in this life itself but certainly in ·
the lives to come, into the peace that passeth all
·understanding and into a nearness to the Elder
Brethren which will give you a place which shall be
_yours forever.
Soldiers we all of us are. Let us be worthy of our
place in the Masters' Army, as we have been worthy
before or we should not be in Their Army today.
Let us renew our worthiness and fight with Them to
the end 'as we have fought in many a battle in times
gone by. The purpose of this Conference is to
.renew our strength, to re-establish ourselves in that
great Company, and to go forward with Them in all
assurance, leaving to Them the time for the dissipa-
tion of the darkness, and being ourselves engaged in
.fighting with such Light as can pour through these
.dedicated channels of ours. May this Conference
-SOLDIERS IN THE MASTERS' ARMY 255
strengthen you all to deeper loyalty, to deeper under-
standing of Them, and to deeper certainty that the
great Hierarchy which rutes the ~orfd is rufing to the
splendid En1
ds to achieve which the world is destined.
-
