{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V32 1922","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v32_1922.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V32 1922","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXXII
(CONTAINING PARTS LXXXII, LXXIII &' LXXXIV)
1922
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1922
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW: MACLEHOSE, JACKSON & CO., 73 West George Street
AMERICA: THE F. W. FAXON CO., 83 Francis Street, Bosto.v, Mass.
All rights reserved
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/proceedingsofsoc32soci
CONTENTS
PART LXXXII.
July, 1921.
y.iOK
I. A Further Report on Sittings with Mrs. Leonard. By Mrs.
W. H. Salter 1
Supplement : Reviews :
I. Dr. A. V. Schrenck-Notzing's " Physikalische Phaenomene
des Mediumismus." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Se. - 144
II. Dr. Max Dessoir's " Vom Jenseits der Seele." By F. C. S.
Schiller, D.Sc. -------- 146
TH. Dr. W. J. Crawford's " The Psychic Structures at the
( Goligher Circle." By E. J. Dingwall - - - 147
^ PAPtT LXXXIII.
r
July, 1921.
I. Problems of Hypnotism : An Experimental Investigation.
By Dr. Sydney Alrutz - - - - - - 151
II. The Phenomena of Stigmatization. By the Rev. Herbert
Thurston, S.J. 179
PART LXXXIV.
January, 1922.
I. Report on a Series of Sittings with Eva C. - - - - 209
II. The Modus Operandi in so-called Mediumistic Trance. By
(Una) Lady Troubridge 344
21^62
c
Dr. W-illiam 'Brown's " Psychology and Psychotherapy " ;
Dr. Constance E. Long's " Collected Papers on the Psycho-
logy of Phantasy " ; Mr. A. G. Tansley's " The New
Psychology and its Relation to Life." By T. W. Mitchell,
M.D. 379
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXXII.
June, 1921.
A FURTHER REPORT ON SITTINGS WITH
MRS. LEONARD.
By Mrs. W. H. Salter.
PAGE
Introduction 2
Part I. Evidence obtained by New Sitters.
§1. Personal Appearance of Communicators - - - 13
§ II. Circumstances and Physical Symptoms Associated
with a Communicator's Death - - - - 23
§ III. Names and Initials ------- 24
§ IV. Various Topics which recur frequently - - - 27
,§ V. A Successful First Sitting 28
Part II. Evidence obtained by Old Sitters.
§ I. Sittings taken by Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Una,
Lady Troubridge ------ 44
§11. J. D.'s Sittings ------- 68
I III. Mrs. Beadon's Sittings ------ 69
A
2 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Introdfction.
The sittings which I propose to discuss in this report are
some of those which were held during the period of three
months, from January 14 to April 15, 1918, when the
Society for Psychical Research entered into an agreement
with Mrs. Leonard to the effect that she should give
sittings only to people for whom appointments were made
by the Society.
All the necessary arrangements with regard to the
choice of sitters, the obtaining of records and so forth,
were put into the hands of a Committee (referred to below
as the Leonard Committee) specially appointed by the
Council for this purpose ; and of this Committee I was
the secretary. As to the arrangements for sittings, the
following procedure was adopted :
(a) The names of all persons wishing to have appoint-
ments with Mrs. Leonard must be submitted to the
Committee, with whom should rest the decision whether
an appointment should be given or not.
(&) When it had been decided that an appointment
should be given, the date of this appointment was deter-
mined by me, as secretary, in consultation with the
prospective sitter, whose attention was particularly drawn
to the importance of not mentioning the appointment to
any one, except perhaps to some member of his or her
immediate family, from whom it could not well be con-
cealed.
As to the question of obtaining satisfactory records,,
with a very few exceptions, appointments were given only
to people who were willing that a recorder selected by
the Leonard Committee should be present at the sitting,
and that a copy of the record obtained should be handed
over to the Society. Most of the records were made by
one or other of three persons, Una, Lady Troubridge, Miss
Radclyffe-Hall (both of them members of the Leonard
Lxxxir.] Introduction. 3
Committee), and myself. On one occasion the record was
made by Miss Newton, the Secretary of the Society, and on
two occasions by Mr. J. G. Piddington. Exceptions to the
general rule concerning the presence of a recorder were
made in the case of one or two old sitters who had been
in the habit of sitting regularly with Mrs. Leonard and
could not therefore be entirely excluded during the period
under review. A few of these records made by old sitters
are in our possession, but I shall make very little use of
them in this report.
^
With regard to the records from which I shall quote,
it is to be observed that they were not made in shorthand.
But, as Lady Troubridge and Miss Radclyffe-Hall have
already said in their report on their earlier sittings with
Mrs. Leonard {Proc. S.P.B., Part LXXVIII.), it is possible
by dint of practice and by establishing a good under-
standing with Mrs. Leonard's " control," Feda, to obtain
an accurate and a substantially verbatim record of what
occurs. A special point was always made of taking down
everything that was said by the sitter, so that if any
information was thus conveyed to the medium this fact
might be apparent in the record.
The total number of sittings given by Mrs. Leonard
during the period under review was seventy-three ;
thirty-
1 1 should like to make it clear that in thus putting aside these
records made by old sitters I do not intend to cast any doubt upon their
bona fides. But experience has shown that people differ much in their
capacity for making an exact record, and many sitters do not realise
the importance of noting everything they say themselves. Moreover,
even if a sitter is skilled and experienced in the art of recording, there
is a distinct advantage in having the record made by some one whose
attention is not distracted in any way. In recording my own sittings
—
which I have done on several occasions—I have noticed two tendencies :
(a) my mind may be given temporarily to the problem of what response,
if any, it is desirable tha't I should make to some statement or Cjuestion,
and my record may sixffer in consequence ; (6) I have noticed in myself
a tendency, against which I think sitters should be on their guard, to
record more carefully and minutely statements which I know to be of
evidential value than statements which I know to be confused or
incorrect. Close attention to the process of recording flags in pro-
portion to the flagging of the sitter's interest in what is being said,
and if this tendency is not immediately checked, correct and evidential
statements will of course have undue prominence in the record.
4 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
one appointments were given to twenty-five new sitters,
of whom one had three sittings and four had two sittings
each ; all these new sitters were anonymous except three ;
two had made appointments with Mrs. Leonard in their
own name before she entered into the agreement with the
Society, and Mrs. Sidgwick, who had two sittings, was
known to Mrs. Leonard through having called upon her
to talk over the terms of the agreement. Forty-two
appointments were given to persons who had sat with
Mrs. Leonard before ; of these forty-two sittings thirteen
were taken by Lady Troubridge and Miss Radclyffe-Hall,
one of them acting as sitter and one as recorder, as is
their usual habit ;
twenty-nine sittings were given to
other old sitters, and of all but nine of these sittings
careful records are in the possession of the Society.
Putting aside therefore the nine sittings of which no
adequate record is available, we have a total of sixty-four
sittings, of which .thirty-one were given to new sitters,
that is, persons who had never sat with Mrs. Leonard at
any time prior to January 15, 1918, and thirty-three to
old sitters, that is, persons who had sat with her at
least once before that date.
I propose in this report to classify the results under
consideration according to whether they were obtained by
new or old sitters, and to concern myself mainly with
those obtained by new sitters. One great advantage we
possess in the case of these new sitters is that it is a
comparatively easy task to determine in weighing the
evidence what allowance must be made for any normal
knowledge Mrs. Leonard may have had concerning them.
In the case of anonymous sitters—and, as I have stated
above, we believe all but three ^ of the new sitters to
have been anonymous—we have only to consider what
1 It is worth noting as a point in favour of the complete trust-
worthiness of Mrs. Leonard that the results obtained by Mrs. Sidgwick,
who had two sittings and whose name was known to Mrs. Leonard,
were amongst the least successful during the period i^mder review. The
results obtained by Mr. G. W. Balfour in the course of three sittings
were also poor. Mr. Balfour went anonymously, but had Mrs. Leonard
been in the habit of assisting the production of apparently supernormal
phenomena by any adventitious means, it is to be supposed under the
LXXXII.] Introduction. 5
general a priori assumptions Mrs. Leonard might make about
them and what she—or Feda—might infer during the sitting.
In the case of old sitters we must of course take into
account all the information that may have been given at
former sittings, or in the course of ordinary conversation ;
for some of Mrs. Leonard's old sitters have come to
know her well, and she has frequently been in their
company when in her normal condition. With old sitters
such as Lady Troubridge and Miss Radclyffe-Hall, who
from the very first have not only kept careful records
of their sittings, but of any conversations they have had
with Mrs. Leonard in the course of which some infor-
mation concerning their affairs might have been given to
her, it is possible by consulting these records to ascertain
whether a particular piece of evidence is vitiated or
modified in any way by some earlier incident. But many
old sitters have kept but scanty records of earlier sittings,
and no records at all of conversations. In their case,
therefore, it is often impossible to determine how much of
the later evidence must be discounted. Almost the only
type of evidence which can be taken at its face value
is apparent knowledge of events which have occurred
since the sitter last held any communication with Mrs.
Leonard, and which are such that they would have been very
unlikely to come to Mrs. Leonard's knowledge through
any other normal channel. Knowledge of this kind is
often displayed during sittings with Mrs. Lepnard, but it
happens that there are not many good instances of it
during the period under review.
In the discussion of evidence to which I shall now
proceed I shall assume that my readers are familiar with
the earlier reports on Mrs. Leonard's phenomena that
have appeared in the Proceedings, and I shall only say
that in all the sittings with which I am here concerned
Mrs. Leonard was in trance and ostensibly " controlled,"
by Feda, in most cases, and on one or two occasions
circumstances that she would have familiarised herself with the personal
appearance of prominent members of the S.P.R. and have collected a
little useful information about them—not a difficidt matter in Mr.
Balfour's case, nor in Mrs. Sidgwick's.
6 Introduction. [part lxxxii.]
by A. V. B.i (see Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXX., p. 339 fif.).
I use the word " control " for convenience to designate
a well-marked psychological phenomenon. I do not propose
to discuss in this report what may be the cause of this
phenomenon, or the relation between Mrs. Leonard and
the supposed personalities who " control " her.
1 See below, pp. 59 ff. A. V. B. never piuports to control except
at sittings taken by Lady Troubridge or Miss Radclyffe-Hall.
PART I.
Evidence obtained by New Sitters.
I WILL now proceed to consider the evidence obtained by
the twenty-five new sitters who were introduced to Mrs.
Leonard during the period of her agreement with the
Society In justice to Mrs. Leonard it should be pomted
out that the phenomena obtained in these circum-
stances are not Hkely to be as interesting or remarkable
as those obtained by sitters who have sat regularly with
Mrs. Leonard during some months or even years. J^irst
sittings, even when they are on the whole successful, are
apt to be of a rather tentative nature, and they usually
follow certain conventional lines. Moreover, they afford
little scope for evidence concerning the character and
personality of the supposed communicator. For one thing,
such evidence is largely cumulative in its effect, and for
another, whether it is obtained by telepathy between
Mrs Leonard and the communicator, or between Mrs.
Leonard and the sitter, or by some combined interaction
of all three minds together, it is likely that a well-
established raj>port between Mrs. Leonard and her sitter
will facilitate matters. I think there is a general agree-
ment amongst those who have sat repeatedly with Mrs.
Leonard—amongst whom I may include myself—that
good evidence of surviving personality is sometimes
obtained.'^
But a review of the evidence obtained during a number
lA very striking example is quoted in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on
"Book-Tests" (see Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXI. p. 253 H), but this incident,
be it observed, occurred during Mrs. Talbot's second sitting.
7
8 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
of first sittings, even if it does not yield any incidents
of a striking character, is not without a certain interest
of its own. A great many people have neither opportunity
nor inclination for a protracted study of trance-phenomena ;
they visit a medium once, or perhaps twice, with the
avowed intention of getting into touch with some dead
friend or relative, if they can, and therefore both from
a practical and from a theoretical point of view it is
worth while to consider what sort of results such people
seem likely to get.
In order to form an opinion on this point it is necessary
that we should have under review a considerable number
of sittings for purposes of comparison, and this is just
what the individual sitter can very seldom do. He knows
what has occurred at his own sitting and can judge how
far the statements made are applicable to his particular
circumstances. What he cannot judge, unless he sets
himself deliberately to enquire into the matter, is to what
extent the statements made at his sitting might have
been applicable to the circumstances of some other sitter,
and—a more important point—to what, extent statements
made appropriately to him have also been made to other
sitters whose circumstances they did not fit. This point,
I say, is important, because the comparison of a number
of first sittings reveals the fact that certain typical lines
of structure, so to speak, tend to recur with slight modi-
fications, and a statement which is accepted by one
sitter as good evidence for the identity of the purporting
communicator will obviously lose much of its evidential
value by frequent and indiscriminate repetition.
What I have termed these typical lines of structure are
most apparent in sittings at which the general level of
evidence for any supernormal source of knowledge is poor.
There can be little doubt, I think, that when Feda is
at a loss, when for one reason or another she is not able
to get any genuine impressions of a supernormal character,
sooner than remain silent she resorts to what may be
termed her " stock-in-trade," and pads freely. ^ She frankly
1 Cf. similar observations made by Sir Oliver Lodge in regard to Mrs.
Piper's control, Phinuit, and by Mr. J. G. Piddington in regard to Mrs.
Thompson's control, Nelly.
Lxxxii.] Evidence obtained by Neiv Sitters. 9
recognises this tendency herself (although she puts the
responsibility for it upon the communicator), alleging in
excuse that unless a free and more or less continuous
flow of communication can be established, the stream is
apt to dry up entirely. In a sitting taken by Dr. T. W.
Mitchell on April 12, 1918, at which Lady Troubridge
recorded, the following passage occurred :
Feda. And—a spirit what Feda asks advice of said some
j)eoples would be shocked, but not you—you know
when spirits comes, they sometimes all seems to say
the same thing ; like a young man will say he's
wTitten a "portant letter. And after two or three
has said it, Feda says : Say something new, that's
not proper evidence ; "cos every one says that."
Then they says : Oh, I want mother to know
it
"—and if you stops 'em, you shuts the door on
their saying other things what may be evidence.
And then that one thing becomes a key what is easy
tapped and played upon in her [Mrs. Leonard's] mind ;
so if Feda lets 'em play about a bit, it gives 'em a
feehng of confidence ; and though Feda's thinking all
the time ""
oh, they all say that,"' Feda mustn't be
cross about it. And the medium was cross ; 'cos
several sitters told her their sons had given good
tests about letters they had sent two days before
they passed over, and she said to Feda :
" Can't you
give something better than that ? Everyone has sent
letters.". . .
Often Feda has to let the si^irits talk just of
anything, to get them on a flow ; 'cos if they only
thinks of tests, they gets all stiff and frozen up ; and
they all has written letters, and all boys loves their
mothers, so it does no harm.
This statement of Feda's receives practical corroboration
from the fact, which many sitters with Mrs. Leonard
must have observed, that any deliberate effort made to
give a particular " test," in response, e.g. to a question
asked by the sitter, is apt, as it were, to block that line
for the time being, although a quite correct answer may
10 iMrs. W. H. Salter. [part
afterwards be given spontaneously.^ There is an obvious
analogy in the experience everyone has had of trying to
remember a half-forgotten name ; a deliberate effort to
remember the name has an inhibiting effect, but if we
let our mind run on other matters, the name will rise
into consciousness. Similarly it would appear that if
during Mrs. Leonard's trance the stream of obvious and
commonplace communications is allowed to flow un-
checked it may be made to serve as a vehicle for matter
which is of evidential value. In a note appended to the
extract from Dr. Mitchell's sitting quoted above, the
recorder. Lady Troubridge, says that she had noticed
that on several occasions this stereotyped evidence was,
as it were, made the peg upon which to hang some really
striking piece of evidence. For instance, out of the usual
meandermg anent a watch, worn on the wrist, would
emerge some little evidential fact anent the nature or
whereabouts of some other watch possessed by the com-
municator. Or, to quote an actual instance, on one
occasion, when the obvious allusion was made by the
communicator to a gold signet ring, obviously a man's,
worn by the sitter, great surjjrise was expressed, and
be-\vilderment, at the fact that the sitter possessed such
a ring. And this surprise was evidential in view of the
fact that the original ring had gone to the bottom of
the sea with the communicator, the one worn hy the
sitter having been specially made to the old pattern
subsequently to the communicator's death. It will be
seen, therefore, that Feda's explanation to the effect that
she allows novice communicators to practise and acquire
confidence by the use of stereotyped evidence, found, as
it were, ready to hand in the medium's brain, and that
thereby they are encouraged, and gain the necessary
confidence for giving something really good, is borne out
by the facts observed.
In our almost complete ignorance concerning the con-
ditions governing trance communications, Feda's word as
1 See, for example, Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXX., pp. 444 ff.
LXXXII.] Evidence obtained by New Sitters. 11
to how the production of good evidence may be facilitated
is worth at least as much as anyone else's, and it is
probably wiser for new sitters to let her take her own
course. Nevertheless it must be admitted that anything
that can be described as mere padding is from an
evidential standpoint regrettable, and when a friendly
rapport has been established between Feda and the sitter
much may be done to check this kind of talk. Feda
herself, as the extract given above indicates, has a keen sense
of what constitutes valuable evidence and has shown her
desire to obtain it whenever possible.
To return to the question of what kind of statements
are habitually or frequently made at first sittings, there
is one particular line of thought which constantly recurs,
partly, no doubt, as a result of the fact that during the
last few years the great majority of sitters have lost a
friend or relative in the war, with whom they desire to
communicate, and it now ^ appears to be Feda's habit to
assume that such is the case. On each of the twenty-five
occasions which I am now considering, when a new sitter
was present for the first time, communications were
received purporting to come from a young man, or at
least a man in the prime of life, whose appearance and
the circumstances of his death, as described by Feda,
strongly suggest that he was a soldier. In most cases
the sitters had in fact lost some friend or relative from
whom the communications might be supposed to come,
but on three occasions young soldiers purported to com-
municate whom the sitters were not able to identify at
all. It is not to be assumed that because they were
unidentified they were necessarily fictitious characters, but
from an evidential standpoint we can only judge of such
matters as they present themselves to us, and all we can
say of these supposed communicators is that they did not
" make good." On another occasion when a sitter had
lost a relative in the war, this relative was a naval
officer ; a communicator presented himself who gave some
^ This statement is made in relation to sittings given during 1918. To
what extent it still holds good, I do not know.
12 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
evidence of identity,^ but no indication of any connexion
with the sea was obtained ; on the contrary statements
were made which appeared to imply some association
with fighting on land, the conditions of life in the trenches
and so forth. These results suggest that Feda has what
might be termed a military habit of mind ; she takes it
for granted first that communication with a young man
is desired, and, secondly, that any young man who
presents himself is a soldier. On one occasion a sitter
desired to communicate with his daughter, a quite young
girl, who had lately died. The supposed communicators
who spontaneously presented themselves on this occasion
were (1) a young man, who from the statements made
about him was presumably a soldier killed in the war ;
(2) an " elderly lady " said to be a relative ; (3) an old
man with a grey beard ; (4) another " elderly lady " said
to be much with the first. Neither of the men was
recognised at all by the sitter, the two women only
doubtfully. Then, at the recorder's suggestion, the sitter
asked whether communication with his daughter was
possible. A spirit was then said to be " building up,"
whom at first Feda could not clearly see ; later on she
gave a description of this spirit which the sitter recognised
as applicable to his daughter,- and some evidence of
identity was also obtained. Now the circumstances in
this case were peculiar—it would not often happen,
especially during the war, when so many men were losing
their lives, that the dead person with whom communi-
cation was desired would be a young girl ; the result
appears to indicate that during the early part of the
sitting Feda's statements were based rather upon a priori
assumptions as to what the sitter's circumstances were
likely to be than on any real knowledge of those circum-
stances supernormally acquired. First she assumes that he
wishes to communicate with a soldier, perhaps a son, that
being in her experience the most likely contingency ;
failing that, she assumes that he wishes to communicate
1 Further evidence of a more striking character was obtained from the
communicator at two later sittings.
^ See Appendix, p. 94.
Lxxxii.] Evidence obtained hy Neiv Sitters. 13
with some middle-aged or elderly relative, perhaps a wife,
perhaps a father or mother. It is not until she has been
set in the right course by a direct question from the
sitter that anything of evidential value is obtained.
There is then a strong probability that the first supposed
communicator to present himself at a sitting with Mrs.
Leonard will be a soldier, said to have been killed, or at
least to have died in the war. After some statement
from him it frequently happens, as on the occasion I have
just described, that various persons whom we may call
secondary communicators make their appearance ;
they
are usually said to be older members, or sometimes friends
-of the young man's family, spirits who " helped him when
he passed over." Allusions may also be made to other
persons who are not alleged to be present themselves at
the sitting, but concerning whom statements are made by
a communicator ;
occasionally other young men are
referred to who are said to be soldier friends of the
first communicator. Another frequent type of com-
municator is the child who has died young, or was still-
born and has "grown up on the other side."^ These
communicators do not usually take much active part
in the sittings ;
they are described as having come from
a. higher sphere to give their assistance ; sometimes they
are said to act as "guides" to the sitter.
Taking it then as established that at a first sitting
with Mrs. Leonard certain groups of communicators will
normally present themselves—this method of procedure
being, as it were, the scaffolding upon which the whole
sitting is built up—we must next consider to what extent
the individual members of each group are clearly differ-
entiated one from another, and what kind of evidence of
personal identity they are able to give.
§1. Personal Appeaeance of Communicators.
When a communicator is said to be present at a sitting,
Teda usually begins by giving a description of his or her
^ A similar tendency was observed in Mrs. Thompson's control, Nelly,
see Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XVIII., p. 261 ff.
14 Mrs. W. H Salter. [part
personal appearance. A comparison of a considerable
number of such descriptions suggests that in a good many-
cases they represent types rather than individuals ;
they
are frequently recognised by the sitters and said to be
good descriptions, but it has to be remembered that the
sitters know who the individual is whom they hope to
hear described ; the personal appearance of this individual
is clearly in their mind's eye, and therefore, provided that
the description given by Feda is not positively inapplicable,
they will quite unconsciously fill in the gaps themselves
and accept the description as an accurate representation'
of the person they have in their thoughts. It happens
occasionally that descriptions are given which are in-
dividually characteristic and not widely applicable. Such,
for example, was the description of the communicator
called A. V. B. (Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXX., p. 355 ff.) ; it
was a very detailed description, and was such that to
anyone familiar with A. V. B.'s manner and personal
appearance it would be likely to suggest her identity
without her name having been mentioned. This detailed
description, however, was not given at a first sitting. In
the sittings now under consideration I have found no
descriptions which for accuracy of detail could compare
with that one, but here and there a personal characteristic
is clearly noted. At a sitting, for example, on April 4,
1918, after a rather vague description of a communicator's
appearance which left the sitter in some doubt as to
which of two possible communicators was intended, the
following statement was made :
Feda (to the communicator). ^ What about a spot near your
nose ? (Feda points vaguely to the region of the
nose, mouth and jaw.)
Sitter. The mouth ?
Feda. Yes ; he had a mark here. (Feda passes her finger
across the cheek between the side of the mouth and
1 Those of my readers who have had sittings with Mrs. Leonard will
be familiar with Feda's mannerisms. When she is addressing a supposed
commimicator or repeating something that a communicator has said,
so as to be sure that she has got it correctly, her remarks are in the
nature of asides, usually half whispered.
Lxxxn,] Personal Appearance of Communicators. 15
the jaiy bOne.) Anyhov^ -he '^liash't'-. got it now.
(Feda begins stroking the jawbone.) Feda thinks it
was just there ; he'd had it for some time ; Feda
thinks that it might have been much worse than
it was. It's not round, it's more long-shaped and
not quite straight ; Feda thinks it must have spoilt
the side of the jaw a little.
The sitter's comment is as follows :
This is correct. B [the communicator] had two serious
operations on his jaw, and a part of the bone was removed
four months before he passed over. Had he lived, the
right side of the jaw would have apjoeared shortened from
the ear to the chin. Feda pointed to the right side of
the face, which was correct, and to the exact spot where
would have been the long irregular scar (white) left after
the first unsuccessful operation which had to be repeated.
Now that is quite a good clear piece of evidence, not
easily explicable by chance-coincidence, since few peojDle
have marked blemishes of any kind upon the jaw. But,
so far as I have been able to observe, evidence of that
particular kind is not frequently obtained at first sittings
with Mrs. Leonard. Statements concerning the personal
appearance of communicators are usually of that vague and
general character which one associates with passports, and
they exhibit several noticeable limitations. For example,
Feda frequently remarks that she is unable to see the
colour of the communicator's eyes, and if she hazards a
statement on this point she is as likely to be wrong as
right. In some cases this difficulty may be natural enough
(there are people in whose company one could be for
many weeks without observing what colour their eyes
were), but there are instances in which Feda has either
failed to give any indication about a communicator's eyes
or has described them wrongly, when according to the
sitter the eyes were the most noticeable feature of his
face.^
The colour of a communicator's hair is another point
upon which Feda's statements are apt to be indefinite ;
^ See Appendix, p. 83.
16 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
the hair is said" to. .1b:e- . brown -or! ''"of ' si browny colour,"
" rather on the light side " or " the dark side," as the
case may be. Where soldiers are concerned, whose hair
is always said by Feda to be cut very short, perhaps
not much more than this could be expected—by far the
greater number of Englishmen have hair of some shade
of brown—but one might have hoped for some more
precise differentiation in the case of other communicators,
especially women.
A more general and more important limitation is that
Feda with a very natural consideration for the sitter's
feelings invariably draws a communicator's portrait in
favourable terms. In all the sittings under consideration
not one admittedly plain-featured communicator has been
portrayed. Feda occasionally permits herself to comment
with kindly criticism upon the personal appearance of
people still alive, but de mortuis nil nisi honmn. Now,
if any one will set himself the task of describing as
graphically as possible and without prejudice the appear-
ance of some tolerably presentable, but not strikingly
handsome member of his acquaintance, he will find that
the aesthetic blemishes of a face characterise it as much
as its beauties. He will observe, it may be, that his
friend's eyes are rather too small, or his nose is rather
too long, but of such characteristics as these Feda tells
us almost nothing.
The lack of precise detail which marks many of her
personal descriptions is most conspicuous, as we might
expect, in the case of soldiers. I say " as we might
ex]3ect," because the average young British officer con-
forms to type in a way that must make it a difficult
matter to give any description that will at once and
clearly differentiate him individually from his fellows.
Nevertheless, if the evidence is in fact weak in this
respect it is important that this weakness should be
recognised. I will quote in illustration of my point an
incident which occurred at one of my own sittings.
A young man was said to be present who had died in
the war ; he was described, with a rather unusual amount
of detail, in the following terms :
Lxxxii.] Personal Appearance of Communicators. 17
He [the communicator, my father] thinks he is tall,
and well built, but in breadth he is about medium,
not a very big tall man. Mr. Arthur [Feda's name
for the communicator] j^ulls himself up, Feda thinks
that means that the young man is straight. His face
is towards long-shaped with a well-shaped chin with-
out being unduly broad, the mouth is medium size
and he has good teeth. It's a good shaped mouth,
not too full, about medium. The lips are curved,
and the mouth is inclined to turn uj) at the corners.
One corner turns up a little more than the other
corner. That was just a little habit he had, it could
be verified with a photograj^h. His eyes smiled too ;
though he had that habit, it doesn't give him a
smiKng ajDpearance because his mouth and chin are
too strong and too decided. The nose is not quite
straight, you can see the bridge a little, it's a nice
shape, not large, medium, and the nostrils are well
opened. And here, you see, the outside of the nostril
is well formed ; it's rather deeply curved (Feda
outlines the ring of the medium's nostril with her
finger) that helps to take away from the funny look
of the mouth ; he kept his mouth closed, not loose.
His skin is clear and on the fair side rather and
there is a little colour just in the cheeks, not all
over. Oh dear, the colour of his eyes is difficult to
get at. Feda don't . know, can't tell ; Feda can't
sense the colour. What you call a blue or bluey
grey Feda thinks, not a very decided colour. There's
& little streakiness in them or two colours. The
eyebrows are broadly marked, but they don't look
heavy because they are brown, not black. His
forehead is squarish and a good shape, just on the
temples it is rather full, and then it is a little
flatter below. His hair is brown and pretty thick,
tut rather short. It's short at the back and the
sides but as he brushes it at the top it's a little
longer and sticks up a bit on his forehead. It's a
little ruffled looking on top, Feda thinks it would
get like that unless he was always pushing it down.
B
18 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
That's exactly like him. He's got good hands, not
girlish, but Mr. Arthur says they are a good point.
Oh dear, Feda can't see that. Mr. Arthur thinks he
takes nines in boots. He thinks it might be a good
test, Feda don't know why he says that. His hands
are a bit broad across the back, but he's not got
stumj^y fingers, they are long. And his thumb sticks
out from his hands and curves back. (Feda holds
out her hand and indicates a wide division between
the thumb and fingers, and apparently a thumb much
curved back.)
H. S. Do you mean his thumb is flexible ?
F. No, it's rather stiff ; Feda would think he had a good
firm grip.
Now if I were drawing up a list of people who on
a 2>^'iori grounds might not improbably attempt to com-
municate with me, I should place upon it the names of
three young men who have been killed in the war. To
one of these young men Feda's description does not seem
to me to apply at all, but with a few slight modifications
it might suit either of the other two. As regards each
of them parts of the description are inexact, and Feda
has missed at least one characteristic feature which anyone
observing closely, as she appears to do, would be likely
to note. I may say that since this description was given
the young man described above has made several attempts
to identify himself to me, but without success ; I am
still in complete uncertainty as to who he may be. But
the point I wish to emphasise here is that the description
given by Feda, which I have carefully com^jared with
photographs of the two young men to whom I thought
reference was perhaps intended, might apply to either of
them ; and yet in life these two young men could not be
said to resemble each other at all, except in so far as
each conformed to the normal type of well-grown young
Englishman. The inference which it seems reasonable to
draw is that mere general descriptions of features and
colouring, such as the one I have quoted, are of little
evidential value unless the identity of the person described
Lxxxii.] Personal Appearance of Communicators. 19
can be established by some other means. Fortunately,
evidence of other kinds is frequently available, and personal
descriptions in themselves rather slight and superficial are
sometimes accompanied by allusions to characteristic habits
or to bodily infirmities, which would not be generally
applicable, but are recognised by the sitters as apph'ing
to some particular friend or relative. I have given one
instance of this already ; another occurred at a sitting
on January 31, when the following description was given :
There's a lady in the spirit woiid with him—she comes
to you too—and a gentleman with her. Feda'U try to
describe her. The age about 60 to 65—about medium
build, but holds herself well—very nice-shaped face—rather
long-shaped, towards the oval. When she turns sideways,
she's got a nice profile. She's got a photo turned side-
ways, taken some years ago. It's old-fashioned. She's
pale rather, but she'd had a nice complexion, but had
lost it a little ; the chin had fallen a little ; the nose
straight, about medium-size, not an aquihne nose, more
straight ; the eyebrows brown, the eyelashes brown ; her
hair—she's showing it brown, but it had gone grey before
she passed over. She'd had some weak condition to do
with the lower joart of the body for some time before she
passed over, but on the top of that she got another
condition, more like in the chest, a bit to the left side,
before she passed over ; her physical strength was under-
mined, internally she was getting weaker, but she wouldn't
give in.
Concerning this description the sitter comments thus :
This my mother and I agree is a good description of
my grandmother. She was however seventy-two years old
when she died, but looked younger. She had been very
beautiful and was distinctly vain of her fine profile. Even
in her old age she kept a little trick of turning her head
so as to bring it to your notice. Her hair was grey, but
she wore a brown wig. She was very sensitive on the
subject of her age. I had a dim recollection of such a
photograph as Feda describes at the time of the sitting.
It was coloured, and the artist had given her a wonderful
20 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
complexion. My mother says of it : At first I felt sure
she had never had a photograph taken in profile. Then
I remembered that she did have one taken and coloured,
with gold earrings and a shawl with black and lavender
stripes. It was not good and I put it out of sight in
her lifetime and have never seen it since ; she however
liked it. I forget when it was taken, but it was after
she was fifty."" The descrij^tion of her health at the time
she died is very good and she "
would not give up.' In
fact, she did not believe she was seriously ill and feared
to be thought old. Her death was sudden and unexpected
and was due to over-exertion on a hot day.
In this case, not only is Feda's description said to be
generally applicable to the sitter's grandmother, but it is
such as to indicate correctly the communicator's character
as well as her personal appearance ; the emphasis laid
upon the good profile and the photograph in which it
appeared to advantage, the preference for brown hair
and the determination not to yield to physical in-
firmities ^ are all characteristic traits which considerably
enhance the evidential value of the description taken as a
whole.
I have given these instances to illustrate what appear
to be the strong and weak points of descriptions given
through Mrs. Leonard. Before I pass on to consider other
kinds of evidence I will discuss very briefly some
theoretical problems which these descriptions raise con-
cerning the source from which is derived any knowledge
(supernormally acquired) and concerning the manner in
which this knowledge presents itself to Mrs. Leonard in
trance. There has been some discussion of this matter
in the Journal,'^ and three theories have been propounded,
according to one of which the explanation is to be found
in telepathy from the sitter, according to another in
telepathy from the communicator, and according to a
1 The evidential value of this last point is weakened by the fact that
some such statement is very frequently made concerning old or elderly
communicators.
2 See .Jour. S.P.R., Vol. XVIII., pp. 187 ff. and 213 ff.
Lxxxii.] Personal Appearance of Comtminicators. 21
third in a quasi-materialising power in the communicator,
who unconsciously recreates a semblance of his body as
it existed when he was alive. Now the first hypothesis,
telepathy from the sitter, seems to break down, because,
as has been pointed out, communicators are sometimes
well described and subsequently identified whose personal
appearance was quite unknown to the sitter ;
moreover,
there is a considerable body of evidence of other kinds to
show that telepathy from the sitter is not the only source
of Mrs. Leonard's supernormal knowledge ;
why, then,
should we suppose that as regards one particular kind of
knowledge she is limited to that source 1
With regard to the materialisation theory, several
difficulties present themselves. Sir Oliver Lodge, by whom
this theory has been put forward in the 8.P.R. Journal
(Vol. XVIII., p. 213), speaks of communicators having
a materialising power akin to that which we possess here,
by which we build up our own bodies. It would seem,
however, as if communicators can not only materialise
their own bodies, but also any inanimate objects to
which for evidential reasons they wish to call Feda's
attention. Feda at any rate makes no distinction in this
respect between persons and things. According to her own
account she sees before her not only the spirit who is
communicating but the chair in which he used to sit,
or the stick he used to carry. The communicator, she
says, is building these things up or showing them to her.
It is theoretically possible to suppose that spirits can
materialise chairs and sticks, but that power is surely
not akin to the power we now possess of shaping our
own bodies. To materialise a chair by thinking about it
is a thing we cannot do at all, and if spirits can do this,
the analogy between their powers and our own seems to
break down. If, on the other hand, we suppose that the
chair which Feda sees is only an externalised mental
image, why should we seek any other explanation to
account for her visions of people ?
Then, again, we have to account for the fact that she
can describe living people as well as those who have
died. For example, at a sitting in February, 1918, at
22 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
which communications from a young man were received,
Feda made the following statement :
F. There's a gentleman on the earth plane that he [the
communicator] goes to see. And who, he thinks, knows
he goes to see him. More an elderly gentleman, not old,
but elderly, just past middle age. Moustache rather a
faded colour, going grey, it"s been brown ; the face not
full, thinnish ;
bluey-grey coloured eyes, rather deep-set,
the eyebrows marked, the hair thin on top (touching
the upper part of the temples and clearly indicating the
upper psirt of the forehead as what was meant) ; at
the back the hair is all right, but it's getting bare on
the temples. He's rather tall, pretty straight, leans his
head a little forward, holds himself well when he's
thinking of it, stoops a little sometimes. This is someone
on the earth plane, the young man goes to see him on
the earth plane.
On this the sitter notes :
" An excellent description of
the communicator's father."
It happens that I am myself acquainted with the man
who is here described, and certainly the description strikes
me as a good pen-sketch, above Feda's average. The
anonymity of the sitter was carefully preserved, and there
is no reason to think that Mrs. Leonard can have had
any normal knowledge concerning her family circumstances
and connexions.
It is surely difficult to suppose in such a case that the
man who is described was taking any part in the sitting,
that he was materialising himself. The description seems
to fall into the same class as the descriptions of inanimate
objects to which I have referred ; the agent would seem
to be the purporting communicator who is seeking to
establish his own identity. I put forward these objections
to the materialisation theory briefly and tentatively for
the consideration of my readers. For my own part, I am
inclined to adopt as a working hypothesis the theory that
the appearances which Feda describes are more or less
externalised mental images telepathically induced, but
deriving, in some cases at any rate, from other sources
Lxxxii.] Symptoms associated with Comm unicator s Death. 23
than the mind of the sitter, perhaps from the mind of
the ostensible communicator.
§ II. Circumstances and Physical Symptoms associated
WITH A Communicator's Death.
After describing a communicator's personal appearance
Feda will often go on to give some account of what she
calls the passing-over conditions." At a first sitting
there is not usually any attempt at a detailed diagnosis ;
the circumstances of the death or the physical symptoms
preceding it are described only in general terms. In the
case of communicators who have died in the war Feda
almost invariably asserts that their death has been speedy,
and here again we can probably trace a tendency to
a priori reasoning and a desire to comfort the sitter.
I do not know what the exact statistics may be, but
I imagine that of those who have died in the war the
majority have died at least within a few hours of being
wounded, and Feda usually follows her assertion that
the death was " sudden " or that the communicator died
" rather quickly " by an assurance that he did not feel
any pain. Doubtless sitters have often questioned her as
to whether the communicator suffered much, with a
strong hope of obtaining an answer in the negative.
In the case of communicators who have presumably
died natural deaths, some attempt is usually made to
locate the bodily ailment from which they suffered ; for
example, Feda will say that it was connected with the
throat or with the heart, that there was some pain in the
region of the kidneys, and so forth. An instance has
already been given above in which the physical condition
of a communicator during the last years of her life was
correctly indicated (see p. 19) ; another instance occurred
at a sitting on February 25, 1918. Feda was speaking of
an ' elderly lady " whom the communicator thought to
be his mother, and remarked :
This lady didn't pass over suddenly like the young
man. Her passing over, when it carae, was pretty peaceful,
24 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
but she'd been ailing for some time. There was some
poor condition in the blood, something internal. She's
not very jjale, but the condition of the blood was not
good for some time, not clotted, stagnated somehow.
Feda should think the legs or feet had felt it. She pats
herself on the legs.
Upon this the sitter comments thus :
My mother had a long illness, but died suddenly at the
last. She died from tubercular disease, which developed
at the knee joint, and before her death her leg was
amputated.
The strength of the evidence in this case lies in the
fact that Feda rarely locates ailments of any kind in
the legs, and they are not a frequent seat of fatal disease.
The incident, therefore, is not easily explicable by chance-
coincidence.
§111. Names and Initials.
At almost every sitting a considerable number of letters
of the alphabet are given, said to be the initial letters of
names, either of persons or j^laces connected with the
communicator. Sometimes these letters are spoken by
Feda, who represents herself as repeating what the com-
municator has said to her, sometimes they are drawn in
the air, or on the sitter's hand, and have to be inter-
preted by the sitter or the recorder. This second method
is not under any circumstances a very satisfactory one,
since there is often considerable difficulty in correctly
interpreting Feda's drawing ; with inexperienced and
perhaps indiscreet sitters it is decidedly unsatisfactory.
It will inevitably hajjpen that they sometimes interpret
as a letter which they know to be relevant a scrawl
which in the eyes of the ignorant and therefore unpre-
judiced recorder is not clearly decipherable. Feda herself
is quite aware of this danger, and I have heard her ask
a sitter not to interpret her drawings, but to let her
interpret them herself and name the letter which they
LXXXII.] Names and Initials. 25
are intended to represent. This she will usually do, if
given time.
At a good sitting it will generally be found that only
a few initials are given, of which most, if not all, can be
interpreted by the sitter as representing relevant names.
But even at its best this particular kind of evidence
cannot carry much weight ; too much is left to inter-
pretation, and too much scoj^e given for chance-coincidence.
When, for example, a communicator is said to be " build-
ing up " a letter which either stands for his own name
or the name of someone closely connected with him, or
might even stand for a place with which he was closely
associated, it is as likely as not that some name fulfilling
one or other of these conditions, and having the given
initial, could be found in the circumstances of almost any
communicator. At bad sittings, when it seems as though
little or no supernormal knowledge of any kind can be
obtained, Feda is apt to resort largely to this giving of
initials, showering them out apparently in the hope that
one or two will hit the mark and perhaps afford her a
point de repere from which to proceed to something more
distinctive.
The giving of names, especially of surnames or of rare
Christian names is a far more satisfactory form of
evidence, and some communicators appear to have, or
at any rate to acquire with practice, a considerable
facility in giving names ; but it is rather unusual for any
names beyond the more ordinary Christian names to be
given at a first sitting. There is, however, one case in
the period under review in which a quite uncommon
name was correctly given to a new and anonymous
sitter. This incident occurred in a sitting which was
remarkable in some other respects also. But is not
further discussed in this report. An elderly man was
purporting to communicate, and after a good description
of him had been given and other relevant statements
made, Feda observed :
Feda. He's trying to say a name, it's a name more like
Moison or Morrison.
26 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Sitter. Like Morris ?
F. Yes, Morrison. [SoUo voce : Mois, Morris.) It's not
quite as long as Morrison. Mois—Morris—Morris.
[Feda begins drawing in the air, and draws the
following letters m. u. r. k. o u g.] It's a funny
name ! Even now Feda can't say it ; it's something
he thought you would recognise.
Sitter. I do, and it's very good.
The sitter identified the purporting communicator as her
uncle, whose Christian name was Murrough. It will be
seen that the name was correctly given with the exception
of the final H, and it is worth noting that the letters
drawn by Feda were on this occasion interpreted by the
recorder to whom the relevance of the name Murrough
was not known.
The difficulty that communicators apparently find in
giving their own or their friends' names is often adversely
commented upon by sceptics. Is it reasonable to suppose,
they say, that nearly all those who communicate have
forgotten an item of knowledge so familiar to them as
their own names ? But this criticism overlooks the fact
that we are not warranted in assuming that a com-
municator has forgotten a thing because he cannot com-
municate it, or, in other words, because the necessary
brain mechanism whether for sjieech or for writing is not
set in motion. Whatever the ultimate source of a com-
munication may be, there is no question but that the
brain of the automatist is used in recording it, and it
appears a priori probable that some unusually strong
stimulus might be necessary before an automatist would
give utterance to a name with which she was quite
unfamiliar, a name with which she had no ready-made
associations tending to evoke it. Some support is lent to
this suggestion by the fact that upon the only two
occasions during the period under review when the surname
of an anonymous sitter was given by Feda as a name
closely connected with the supposed communicator, it can be
proved that Mrs. Leonard had some previous knowledge
of these names, and had associated them in her mind
Lxxxn.] Names and Initials. 27
with possible sitters. The circumstances were as follows :
each of the two sitters had had some correspondence with
Mrs. Leonard under their own names with a view to
obtaining an appointment, which, however, Mrs. Leonard
had been unable to give them. Subsequently they got
into touch with the Society for Psychical Research and
obtained a sitting through the Leonard Committee. They
had never seen Mrs. Leonard, and so far as I have been
able to ascertain she had no normally acquired knowledge
which would lead her to conclude that the anonymous
sitters whom the S.P.R. sent to her on two particular
days were a particular two out of the large number of
people who had recently written to her for appointments
and failed to get them. At the same time it seems
likely that Mrs. Leonard's previous acquaintance with their
names was a relevant factor in the case ;
Feda, as she
herself sometimes expresses it, found the names " ready in
the medium's brain."
§IV. Various Topics which recur frequently.
There are several other topics to which allusion is
frequently made at sittings, such as articles belonging to,
or closely associated with, the supposed communicator,
anniversaries of important events in the lives either of the
communicator or of the sitter. I have not thought it worth
while to discuss any such incidents in detail here, but in
the appendix to this paper I have included a considerable
number of extracts from sittings grouped under various
headings, which, in conjunction with the information
supplied by sitters as to the correctness or incorrectness
of the statements made, will enable readers to form their
own conclusions as to the value and significance of the
evidence thus obtained. Briefly, it may be said that,
whilst the evidential value of these recurring topics is
inevitably diminished by the mere fact of their recurrence,
they do- occasionally form, as suggested above, p. 10, a
point de repere for really good evidence of knowledge super-
normally acquired.
28 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
§V. A Successful First Sitting.
I now propose to give an account in some detail of a
sitting which I consider to be on the whole the best first
sitting obtained during the period under review. The
sitter on this occasion was Mrs. Montagu and I acted as
recorder. Mrs. Montagu, who lives in Devon, sat anony-
mously, and except the immediate members of her family
and the members of the Leonard Committee no one knew
anything of her appointment. The sitting took place on
March 5, 1918.
After the usual whispers which herald Feda's arrival, on
this occasion rather prolonged, Feda opened the conversa-
tion thus :
F. Do you know any one missing ?
Mks. M. Yes. •
F. A condition of some one on the earth plane wants to
get in touch, some one missing in the war. On
the earth plane, not in the spirit world. There's a
lot of spirits round helping him. Quite a young
man comes who has passed over, tall, rather
slight, not broad, on the narrow side, holds himself
straight, not fat at all, the face rather thin, rather
towards the oval, the chin too square to be called
oval—the nose shows the bridge a bit, a little
longer than yours—the lips about medium—the
eyes blue or bluey grey—the eyebrows brown, not
very broadly marked, a little arched—the hair
brown, short—the eyes not quite right, he says
[i.e. the description of them]—the hair cut short,
smooth, neat and tidily brushed flat, away from
the face—it looks straight, but he brushes it
straight—a fine-looking forehead. He passed over
in the war, not quite instantly. He was hurt in
two or more jDarts of the body, chiefly in the head.
It kept him from feeling pain ! He shows a
picture of a man he's trying to hel]! for you on
the earth plane. He shows a letter [Feda draws].
Mrs. M. p.
LXXXII.] A Successful First Sitting. 29
F. An initial Feda thinks. We're all helping, he says,
as much as we can.
Mrs. Montagu's elder son, who was in the flying corps,
was reported missing after a raid over Hudova on the
Bulgarian front. She comments thus on the extract given
above :
I heard definitely that my son had been killed about
three weeks before my sitting with Mrs. Leonard, but
when the sitting opened so suddenly with the question :
Do you know any one missing ? —I was so startled
that I replied without jDausing to reflect. I suppose it
fitted in with my own unconscious hopes. I had waited
and hoped for news for three months.
The description of the first spirit described by Feda
applies very well to my youngest son, who was killed at
the battle of Neuve Chapelle, March 10, 1915, except
that his eyebrows ivere strongly marked. He was well-
built, but his height (nearty six foot two) made him
appear slighter than he really was.
He was hit in the head, and lived only a few minutes,
but was quite conscious, according to the account of his
soldier-servant who stayed by him.
Commenting on the initial P, Mrs. Montagu says that
the name of her missing son was Paul.
Feda then stated that some one in the spirit world
was helping who gave a letter J ; this person Mrs. Mon-
tagu says might be her aunt Julia, who was much
attached to her.
Next Feda described two other young men who were
said to be helping the missing one." These Mrs. Mon-
tagu has not been able to identify. " My son," she says,
" had hosts of friends in England and Australia, and since
his death was known I have received letters from people
I never even heard of lamenting his loss."
Feda then continued :
There's one spirit of a much older gentleman, past
middle age, on the elderly side. He's tall, has been well-
built, but stoops slightly. He's got hair on his face, 'cause
^0 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Feda can't see the mouth distinctly. A greyish moustache
shading the mouth—the cheek-bones showing a little. The
nose shows the bridge a little, then its rather straight.
The eyes deepset, on the dark side, rather grey, but
difficult to see—the eyebrows grey, arched a little, a
darldsh brown before they were grey—a fine forehead—
the hair thin on the top, grey at the sides and back.
He's looking after the missing man. This older gentleman
passed over before the others. Before he passed over, he
used to suffer from his heart, not always, now and again,
and some pain at the lower side of his back. Don't get
a name and initial, but he's been trying to help you.
You've had so much trouble, not only sorrow, but sus-
pense, more than usual. He says something about two
children, not sure if he means in the spirit world or on
the earth plane—think on the earth plane.
Mrs. Montagu comments thus :
The description aj^plies to my father. He suffered from
his heart now and then and also from kidney trouble.
By the " two children " my two daughters may be indi-
cated ; both are living.
Late in the sitting Feda returns to the subject of the
" elderly gentleman," thus :
The elderly gentleman seems to come to you and
to another lady on the earth plane. He keeps on
saying about two children, as if you'd understand.
They may not be little children, but he speaks of
them as children.
Feda thinks this gentleman had lived a good
part of the time in the country—yes, he had a
good distance away from London. At any rate a
good part of his earth life. He's related to you.
He's very fond of you and often comes to you.
He's speaking of M too. A lady in the spirit
world who's with him, a lady related to you called
M and related to—and another lady [Feda draws] E,
a lady called E and a lady called M and he,
Lxxxn.] A Successful First Sitting. 31
closely connected together, and a large letter like
that. [Feda draws.]
Mes. M. a.
F. They're all connected together.
Upon these initials, M, E and A, Mrs. Montagu notes
that " they might mean my father's sisters Margretta,
Emma and Annie. There was a fourth sister called
Elizabeth." Feda continues :
When this gentleman was on the earth plane he was an
awful good man. He was rather what you call orthodox
—
that's the word. He didn't think he was, but he was.
Feda don't think he'd have liked spiritualism very much.
He'd a very clever brain. He had a good many books
round him, a room almost full of books round him, more
in the earlier part of his earth life.
Mrs. Montagu comments thus :
He was distinctly orthodox, but prided himself on his
liberal religious views, because he chsbelieved in eternal
punishment ! Being a Scotsman he was brought up a
Presbyterian. His little study at Bideford was lined with
books, but he was middle aged then.
Feda continues :
F. {s.v. What ? Yes, wait a minute. Bridge, bridge, is
it a place or a name ?) He gives Feda a name
like Bridge, a place he"s lived at Feda thinks, or
an important bridge there. Do you remember ?
Mrs. M. Yes.
F. Like a j)lace you'd remember. It seems as if he'd got
somewhere outside the town, as if he'd live outside
the real town. . . . The ground about there isn't
level like here, it's more hilly. Outside the town
it's very hilly. You can see hills in the distance,
like big fat mounds of hills.
Mrs. M. Yes.
F. When you get more outside, you see the big mounds.
But even the streets is not very level. There's one
street lopsided. The houses on the right-hand side
32 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
is lower, and the houses on the left—there isn't
much on the left, but they's like higher. To get
to one you'd have to go up steps to it. The
gentleman had to go to this street. Feda can see
this uneven street. A little terrace of houses and
between this terrace and another house a little
alley cutted through. When he passed up there,
he used to see it on one side.
Mrs. Montagu comments thus :
Bideford [where her father lived] has an old and famous
bridge. We lived about half a mile outside the town. A
very good description of the town and the hilly country
all round it.
In the midst of her description of the place where the
" elderly gentleman " lived, Feda made two interpolations.
Immediately after the reference to a bridge, she said :
F. (whispering). Mow, Molesey, Mouston. He's giving Feda a
name sounds like Molesey, a name much connected
with this place that he went into. Feda thinks
you'll remember after.
Mrs. M. I remember now. The name's not quite right.
F. That's the nearest Feda can get.
This reference, Mrs. Montagu interprets as
probably Captain Molesworth, usually called " Old
Moley " by his friends. He was greatly interested in
Bideford and Westward Ho ! and their development, and
was always starting schemes for building and for bringing
people into the neighbourhood.
Feda then gave an account of another old resident in
the town whose name began with B and whom the com-
municator met at a chemist's shop, which was described
in some detail. None of this conveys anything to Mrs.
Montagu.
After the reference to the " uneven street " and " the
little alley," Feda continued :
He also knew some one there like Grimshaw
—
sounds like that—not quite right. Some one he
LXXXII.] A Successful First Sitting. 33
knew there too he's met in the spirit world. Quite
an old gentleman with grey hair longer than people
wear now and a grey moustache drooping. A
strong shaped nose, Roman shape, broad strongly
marked eyebrows—the hair a little long at the
sides, tiifty at the sides, almost white—white more
than grey—a broad forehead, rather bald on top
—
pretty tall, but not very ui^right towards the end
of his life. He used to walk about this place, his
head a bit forward, his head on his chest. Some
one your gentleman often talked to there. He was
a very good gentleman. He passed over some time
ago. He metted your spirit gentleman, and they
have long talks. They used to have talks on the
earth plane, but they didn't always agree. They'd
be like friendly, but sometimes they didn't agree
about it. {S.v. Ask her if she remembers.) He
wants to know if you remember the old gentle-
man.
Mrs. M. Yes, I do.
F. It made him laugh, because when that old gentleman
passed over, he"d expected such a different place.
It was so interesting taking him round and showing
him all the spirit places. He couldn't help being
relieved when he saw it, because in spite of his
theories and other things about his earth life—like
^ his profession—he was a materiahst.
Mrs. M. I don't think that.
F. He liked material things, his chairs, his tables, things
like that. It was like a contradiction. When he
passed over, he was surprised to find soUd things.
They seem to think this rather a joke. Spite of
all his theories he had a good hold on to the
material. He was a man what liked to imderstand
things. He didn't Avant things to be intangible.
P'raps you can understand it that way.
Mhs. M. Yes. Is he helping too ?
F. Yes. He was a man with a firm mind and strength
of purpose. It was that kept him here as long as
he did. Can you remember if he had anything any
o
34 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
one might call a seizure ? That's not quite right,
but the nearest word they can get.
Mrs. M. Yes, I think you might call it that.
F. Like a sudden collapse. Then he picked up, but
didn't get quite right. His passing over was quite
peaceful.
The spirit comes with them of a lady, an elderly
lady, a kind sweet face, a little serious-looking.
People might think she was severe, but when you
look a second time, you're sorry you thought that
about her. Not tall, about medium height
—
spreaded out in figure, like elderly people get
without being fat—her face had got a little bit
haggard, a little bit drawn round the mouth
—
towards the end of the earth part the chin sagged
a little. On the dark side—it's hard to tell,
because her hair had been getting grey. It looks
like brown hair, no fringes on her forehead, the
hair brushed back rather straight. It fell apart a
little in the middle. There's a photo shows the
little parting, taken some time before she passed
over. A little pale in face. She'd not been well
for two or three years before she passed over, not
been strong, like weak internally all through her,
not been able to digest her food properly. She
had suffered from her nerves too, but she'd tried
to keep them under control. {8. v. What do you
say ? What is it ? Not getting mixed up with
him ? Twitch, twitch.) Not sure if she means
herself or the sj^irit gentleman. She keeps saying
about a twitching, not always, for a time, like not
keeping the head or neck quite steady. She says
it wasn't always, like a temporary twitching, a
nervous movement.
She seems to be with the spirit gentleman, the
first elderly one, not the one with the beard.
Concerning the above extract, Mrs. Montagu notes :
These seem to me to be an elderly couple whom I knew
from childhood and of whom I was very fond. I have
LXXXII.] A Successful First Sitting. 35
been unable to find out whether the details of her last
illness were correct.
I now return to an earlier part of the sitting to take up
the thread of the two young men, the one said to be dead
and the other alive, but missing.
F. The one who's missing this is again—has been reported
being killed. They say he was wounded but not very
seriously they think. Some one should have brought
news lately. If you haven't seen some one recently they
must be on the way, a man, they give a letter B. This
is a man who should be able to give news, because he
was with him ujj to the time he was lost—not just when
he was lost, but a very short time before that, saw him
tumbling, tumbling over something, he says. That was
the last they saw of him.
And again later :
F. (whispering). Gar—Garson, Feda don't know who this is.
It sounds like Garstin, Garland, some name like that,
hasn't passed over either. He was missing about the
same time. Garside it might be—hasn't passed over.
Mrs. Montagu comments thus :
This was unintelligible to me at the time of the sitting,
but when I showed the notes to my youngest daughter
on March 14 she brought me two letters from a Captain
Burgen, one received by her on January 30, in which he
said that he had heard that Gubbin, the man vho was
brought down at the same time as Paul had been sub-
sequently reported a prisoner, and he wondered if Paul
had also been taken prisoner.
In the second letter, dated February 2, 191S, he says :
" Both machines were seen to come down from about
11,000 ft. Everyone thought both were killed." But later
Gubbin was reported ''
prisoner of war," and Paul "sup-
po.sed to be killed."'
Just after the reference to the man B, who is said to
have news of the " missing one," Feda remarked :
36 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
F. Did you know the one who's missing got cut off
from others ?
Mrs. M. Yes.
F. He got cut off. It wasn't like with others in a
group. The others got scattered, had to get back.
They couldn't follow to find out what had hap-
pened.
Seem to Feda like a hilly place they were over
at the time. They give Peda a letter L. Must
have been near a place called L at the time it
happened. . . .
. . . {8.V. Wait a bit. Flying. Who's flying ?
Wait a bit. Flying. Do you mean in a machine ?
They were trying to tell Feda about flying in a
machine.)
Mrs. M. Yes.
P. There's such a lot and sometimes they all speak at
once. Because of the one that's missing they comes
round. {S.v. Flying in a machine. That's how it
happened. Engine trouble as well.) Don't know
what it means. They keep saying " engine trouble
as well."
Mrs. M. Yes.
F. [S.v. Engine trouble.) Feda thinks he means two
things were wrong. {S.v. Engine trouble as well.)
It's the first young man gives this, but Feda's not
sure who he's giving it about.
And later, after an allusion to the missing man :
Mrs. M. Where is he ?
F. (S.v. Can you see where he is ?) That's funny.
They say he was in a church. [S.v. In a church.
That is funny. In a church. In a church ?)
That's quite right, they say, he was in a church.
Funny thing, he seems to have been alone in a
church. Feda must be careful. Like he was in it,
but alone, or if there was any one else, they
didn't count. He was in a church they keep
saying. (S.v. He was in a church ?) Mar— (S.v.
Mar— Is that connected with the church ?) In
Lxxxii.] A Successful First Sitting. 37
connection with the church they're trying to give
Feda a name starts M A. Either the church, or
the place the church is in. Must be in connection
with the church, and a letter L again. He's not
near a place called L now, but he was near it.
Comment by Mrs. Montagu :
The statement that the one who's missing got cut ofif
from the others. . . . The others got scattered . . . they
could not follow to find out what had happened—is
correct.
On the 7th September, 1917, my son Paul had an
extraordinary and almost incredible escape from death,
owing to engine trouble.
The evening before my son went over to Hudova on
his last raid, he dined in a church with several other
officers.
Earlier in the sitting the following passage occurred :
F. Feda feels a relation of that missing one has passed
over. {S.v. Wait a minute. A man. Wait a
minute.) Before he was missing, just before, a
man who passed over not Idig before. A relation
must have passed over, a man Feda thinks, before.
It's through these people they're tracing him. You
know they've tried to tell you this before.
Mes. M. No, I've got nothing from the spirit world.
F. Had they tried to impress some one else to tell you ?
Mrs. M. Yes, a sister of mine will not believe the official
news.
F. It seems to Feda it's no wonder she won't beUeve,
because they've tried to impress her. They keep
on saying "reported killed." Do you know who
they've been going to see on the earth plane
called M ?
Mrs. M. I can't think at the moment.
F. (S.v. Is it a lady ?) Feda thinks a lady, but not
sure. They keep saying "M will help."
This first spirit's very happy in the spirit world,
but trying to help in the other case, because there
38 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
was a little uncertainty about his passing over for
a time. His uncertainty was cleared up fairly
soon, but the little bit made him terribly worried
for fear some one should be anxious about it.
Feda thinks one of the spirits should be called R,
like that [F. draws an R.] {S.v. Going up—can't
have been in winter then—rather a hot climate
—
this is March.) The spirit says something about a
hotter climate, he seems to have been very hot.
Feda thinks he means when he was on the earth
plane, but Feda didn't want to get it mixed up
with the one who's missing.
And a little later :
J''. {S.v. Wait a bit. Margery. Wait a bit.) Keep on
getting a name, not sure if it's Margery or Mar-
garet. Not the letter M Feda got before. There's
some one on the earth plane, rather a young
person, whom one of these young men goes to see.
Feda's almost sure it's Margery. You may hear
about this after.
Mrs. M. Is that the first young man ?
F. Feda thinks so. He goes to see Margery and tries to
help her very much. . . .
Upon this Mrs. Montagu comments that the relation
who has passed over may be her younger son to whom
she referred the description given at the beginning of the
sitting. The lady on the earth plane called M whom the
communicators go to see may be Mrs. Montagu's sister
Marion, to whom reference had just been made, but
without mentioning her name. As to the reference to a
hot climate, Mrs. Montagu notes :
The brother who was killed was in Bermuda with his
regiment during the summer of 1914, before the war
broke out.
The statement that there was ever any uncertainty as
to the fate of the son who was reported killed is incorrect,
nor does the initial R mean anything to Mrs. Montagu.
Lxxxii.] A Successful First Sitting. 39
Margery, she thinks, was " my niece Margery of whom my
youngest son was very fond."
The names Stanley or Stanton, Bell and Williams or
Williamson were also given as being those of spirits who
had known the missing man and were now helping him.
None of these names convey anything to Mrs. Montagu.
There was also an allusion to the spirit of a girl who
" passed over very young " ; she was said to be united to
Mrs. Montagu by a blood-tie, and to be helping also on
that account. Mrs. Montagu was not able to identify
her.
Now it will be seen from the numerous extracts I have
given that whilst this sitting is in many respects typical
—
built up on what I have described as the usual scaffolding
—-it is conspicuous by reason of the large number of
correct and evidential statements which it contains and
the proportionately small amount of padding and error.
It will be worth while to analyse and tabulate the evidence
obtained with a view to estimating its value.
Two principal communicators took part in the sitting,
a young man identified by Mrs. Montagu as one of her
sons, and an old man identified as her father. In proof
of the young man's identity we have the following points :
1. Description of personal appearance.
This, according to Mrs. Montagu's testimony, is good,
but not entirely correct. Feda is wrong, she says, in
stating that the eyebrows are " not very strongly marked,"
and this is a point upon which one would not expect a
good observer to be mistaken, for strongly marked eye-
brows are a conspicuous feature in any face.
2. The circumstances of death.
Feda is correct in saying that the communicator died in
the war, "not quite instantly," and that he was hit in
the head. She is wrong in saying that he was also hit in
other parts of the body, and in suggesting that there was
ever any doubt as to whether he had been killed or not.
Two other veridical points which this communicator gives
are the allusion to a hot climate, he having been in
40 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Bermuda just before the war, and the allusion to Margery
as the name of someone he tries to help, Margery being
identified by Mrs. Montagu as her niece.
In regard to the older man, more evidence is given.
1. Description of personal appearance and bodily symptoms.
The description is not very detailed, but is said to be
correct so far as it goes, and it is immediately followed by
a correct statement concerning physical symptoms, the
heart-trouble and the pain in the lower side of the back.
2. Description of places and persons connected with the
communicator.
Several good points are made concerning the place and
circumstances in which the communicator lived ; the place
is said to be far from London, to be in the midst of hilly
country, the town has irregular streets built on a slope,
the communicator is said to live a little way outside this
town and emphasis is laid upon a bridge. All these
statements are perfectly intelligible to the sitter in refer-
ence to the communicator's home at Bideford. The
religious standpoint of the communicator is correctly
indicated—that he was, in fact, more orthodox than he
thought himself, an appropriate reference is made to
books and some evidence is given concerning friends whom
he knew at Bideford. He names three and only three
initials ;
they are said to be those of women now dead
who are closely connected with him and with each other.
These initials are those of his four sisters, two of the
sisters having names which begin with the same letter.
He also makes a quite intelligible reference to two chil-
dren, said to be alive, whom Mrs. Montagu identifies as
her two daughters. The only statement of any importance
made by this communicator which Mrs. Montagu could
not place at all was the description of the friend called B
whom he used to meet at a chemist's shop.
The theme with which both these communicators are
principally concerned—apart from offering evidence of their
own identity—is the fate of Mrs. Montagu's elder son,
and their statements upon this matter involve considera-
Lxxxn.] A Successful First Sitting. 41
tions of some interest and significance. On the one hand,
not only is the fact instantly apprehended that Mrs.
Montagu has been in great anxiety and suspense concern-
ing the fate of a young man reported missing at the front,
but a considerable amount of knowledge is shown in
regard to him. The initial P is given, his name having
been Paul ; an appropriate reference is made to flying ; it
is intimated correctly that a man whose name begins
with B can give some news of him and that another man
reported missing at the same time is still alive ; in
connexion with this man Feda makes several shots at a
two-syllabled name beginning with a hard G, the name
being in fact Gubbin. Finally it is stated that the missing
man " was in a church," he having dined in a church on
the night before he was reported missing, as was known
to Mrs. Montagu.
On the other hand, it is clearly and expressly intimated
throughout the sitting that the missing man is still alive,
whereas humanly speaking it is certain that he was at
that time dead. Into the theoretical questions which this
raises I will not go at any length, but I will put one or
two points forward for consideration of my readers and
I will draw one practical conclusion. On two other
occasions during the period I am considering sitters were
present who had near relatives missing at the front, and
this fact was recognised at the sittings. On both occasions
the missing men were declared to be alive, and details
were given of their whereabouts ; in both cases no news
has so far been received of these men. Whether they
were alive or dead at the time of the sitting is to some
extent an open question, and in all probability we can
never have any proof that they were already dead,
although, if, as appears to be the case, they are dead
now, it is likely that they were dead then ; for they had
already been missing a very considerable time. These
three cases taken together suggest that it is Feda's ten-
dency to say that missing men are alive. In this she
may be actuated by that same sympathy for the sitter to
which I have already referred—no one is willingly the
bearer of ill-tidings—or she may be unconsciously
42 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
influenced by the hopes and desires of the sitter. However
this may be, it would certainly appear that the source of
her supernormal information is such that she cannot
clearly discriminate as to whether a particular individual
is, as she would express it, " on the earth plane " or "in
the spirit world." This hypothesis is corroborated by the
fact that on at least two recorded occasions she appears
to have made the opposite error, bringing forward as
purporting communicators, men who are still alive.^
The practical conclusion which I shall draw from these
facts is that it is useless, and indeed worse than useless,
to endeavour to obtain from mediums information about
the fate of people who are missing. If crucial mistakes
•are liable to occur even in unusually good sittings, such
as Mrs. Montagu's, what guarantee can we ever have as to
the trustworthiness of the statements which are made ? It
should be stated that at Mrs. Montagu's second sitting,
which does not fall within the period discussed in this
paper, the young man who on the first occasion was said
to be alive and missing appeared as a communicator
together with his brother ; he gave his full name Paul,
•only the initial P having been given before. No statement
was made as to his having died since the previous sitting,
so that the earlier mistake would appear to have been
rectified. This, however, does not change the fact of its
having been made.
If we scrutinise the evidence obtained at Mrs. Montagu's
first sitting in the light of our general knowledge of what
is usually obtained at sittings with Mrs. Leonard, we shall
see that its value consists in the fact that not only are
the correct statements numerous in proportion to those
which are incorrect, but they are of a distinctive kind.
We do not find, for instance, at sittings with Mrs.
Leonard frequently repeated descriptions of an old-fashioned,
irregularly built town surrounded by hilly country and
containing an important bridge. When, therefore, such a
•description is given and is appropriate to the purporting
1 See below p. 133 for one of these cases. The other case, in which a
:good deal of rather striking evidence of identity was obtained, does not
fall within the period under review here.
ixxxii.] A Successful First Sitting. 43
communicator, that is a good point. Again, allusions to
flying are rare, and since airmen are few in jDroportion
to the total number of soldiers, that also is a good point.
I have tried in this section of my paper to give my
readers some idea of the results obtained at typical first
sittings, good, bad and indifferent. The various points to
which I have referred are coj^iously illustrated in the extracts
from sittings given in the Appendix to this paper, from
which readers can draw their own conclusions. In con-
clusion I should like again to call attention to the fact
that evidence obtained at first sittings does not represent
at all the best that is obtainable from Mrs. Leonard, or,
for that matter, from any other genuine " trance-medium."
I now turn to the consideration of a few selected
incidents occurring at sittings taken by " old sitters
"
during the period under review.
44 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
PART II.
Evidence obtained by Old Sitters.
As I have stated above, the object of this paper is mainly
to consider what kind of evidence is hkely to be obtained
at a first sitting with Mrs. Leonard. I shall include,,
however, a few extracts from sittings taken by old sitters,
which have been selected partly for their intrinsic interest
and partly because they can be easily detached from
their context. The greater number of these incidents
occurred in sittings taken by Miss Radclyffe-Hall and
Una, Lady Troubridge ; evidence obtained in this particular
series of sittings has the great advantage, to which I have
already alluded, that a complete record of every sitting
with Mrs. Leonard taken by these two ladies is in exist-
ence, and a very full and careful statement concerning
the manner in which they first got into touch with
Mrs. Leonard, and the kind of evidence obtained at their
earliest sittings not onh^ exists, but is available to readers
of the Society's Proceedings {Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XXX.,
p. 339 £E.).
§ I. Sittings taken by Miss Radclyffe-Hall and
Una, Lady Troubridge.
During the period under review Miss Radclyffe-Hall and
Lady Troubridge had thirteen sittings with Mrs. Leonard
which formed part of the long series of weekly sittings
which they have had for some time past. I shall assume
that my readers are familiar with their report on some
of their earlier sittings, published in Proceedings, and it
will suffice to say here that in these later sittings also
the purporting communicator was A. V. B., as she has
Lxxxii.] Miss Roddyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 45
been called, an intimate friend of Miss Radclyffe-HaH's
who died in 1916. At each of these thirteen sittings a
considerable amount of time was occupied in giving a
" book-test/' but this part of the evidence has already
been discussed by Mrs. Sidgwick {Proc, S.P.R., Vol.
XXXI.). I propose here to give several instances in
which the purporting communicator gave evidence of
continued memory, especially of names with which she
had been familiar during her lifetime, and some instances
also in which knowledge of an apparently supernormal
character was shown concerning recent events.
1. The Dog Rufus.
At a sitting on March 6, 1918, at which Lady Trou-
bridge was the sitter and Miss Radclyffe-Hall the recorder,
good evidence was obtained concerning a collie, called
Rufus, belonging to Miss RadclySe-Hall, which had lately
died. The sitting opened with a further allusion to Lady
Troubridge's terrier, Billy (see Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XXX.,
p. 487), and the following passage then occurred :
F. . Do you remember another dog altogether, a really
big dog ? A dog that had a back that high ?
(Feda indicates with her hand about the height of
a coUie or a retriever dog, U. V. T.^ gave it as
being about two foot six inches). His hair's
longer too, it's nice hair, softer, silkier hair, and
it's not quite straight, it goes like that. (Feda
makes a gesture indicative of hair turning ujj
shghtly at the ends.) It's a kind of browny
colour. He's got a big head and face, he's got
quite a sharp pointed face. (Feda indicates a long
pointed muzzle.) He's got bigger ears, and on
the tips of them there's some longer hair than on
the rest of the ears, it's wavy, Feda don't mean
that he's got long hair like a woman's on his
^ Lady Troubridge, who is usually referred to by Feda as " Mrs.
Una." Miss Radclyffe-Hall appears in these records as M. R. H., or,
where Feda is quoted, as Mrs. Twonnie."
46 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
ears, but towards the tips it's longer and not
quite straight.
M. R. H. What about this dog 1
F. He's in the spirit world, and it's one you'll like to
see when you go over.
U. V. T. Who'll like to see him 1
F. You, Mrs. Una. (8.v. Not Mrs. Una ?) No, not
Mrs. Una, that's not right, it's- a dog what Ladye
knew. She hadn't always got him with her when
she was here, 'cos she wasn't for animals like you
is, nothing like as much. . .
U. V. T. When did that dog jjass over ?
F. Not just lately, Feda thinks he was on the Earth
Plane when Ladye was here, and that he passed
over a good while after Ladye did, a good, long
while. She was very surprised too, Ladye was,
she was very surprised to see it, but she says it's
evidently come to stay. She says Mrs. Twonnie
will know it too, she'll know it when she goes
over. It had quite an imposing name she says,
a good name, a name like there's a kind of mean-
ing to it apart from being a dog's name, not like
only a name you gives to dogs.
U. V. T. I won't talk, I'll let her say it.
F. She said it seemed pleased to be with her, but she
says she takes more interest in animals now than
she did when she was here.
U. V. T. Does she ?
F. She says these dogs is connected with other people
and that when they come over they'll be pleased
to see them. . . .
M. R. H. I wish she could give some more about the browny
dog.
F. Listen, it's a good dog, nice, but it's lumpier than
that kind of dog (points to U. V. T.'s terrier 2),
it's got feet that's longer at the bottom part than
1 For the sake of clarity sentences have been omitted from the record
here and there which are in no way relevant to the incident under
discussion.
- This dog, a wire-haired terrier, was present at the sitting.
Lxxxii.] Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 47
he has (points to the terrier), and you see there's
like longer hairs that sticks out on his foots and
makes them look bigger. This dog has got like
—
Feda don't know how you call the colour of dog's
eyes, but he's got like hazel coloured eyes. The
rims is black on his eyelids, they's beautiful eyes,
they isn't near together.
M. K. H. Give us some details about that dog's life.
F. . Feda thinks he's got something darker on his nose.
He was a clever dog too when he was on the
Earth Plane, yes, she says he was. He lived at
a house that was properly in the country ;
(s.v.
used to come up in the mornings ? what ?). She
says he used to come up in the mornings, Feda
don't know what she means. Early in the morn-
ings he used to run about in a garden place, and
then he would be let to come up into the house.
It's a big house standing by itself, and it seems
to be raised up as if there was a kind of bank
had been built, and the house builted on top of
it. Feda don't know what you say, but there
seems to be several steps going up to the door,
not just two or three, and the ground floor windows
seems a bit high, as if there was a space between
them and the ground, they's higher than is usual
for ground floor windows, it's like when you's
standing in the path you look up at the windows
a bit. There was a gentleman used to be at that
house often. What do you say 1 The house was
not his own house perhaps. She's showing Feda
what he's like, he was a tall man, about the
middle of life, but he looked young, he had a
moustache, not a tiny one. Feda thinks she would
call him a fine looking man ; his eyes is bluey
grey, the hair and moustache brown.
M. R. H. I don't place him.
F. Looks to Feda as if he had on a tweed suit.
M. R. H. Where is all this ?
F. Wait a minute, she was going to tell you. This
gentleman seems to Feda as if he often had a
48 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
stick or something under his arm. Ladye's showing
him to Feda as if he's coming up the path towards
the front of the house, as if he was going to the
door, and then he doesn't go to the door, he
turns round a path to the left, and he looks as
if he's shouting to someone at the window.
U. V. T. I don"t think I know which dog she means.
F. The man knew the dog, and was at the same time,
she's speaking of seven years ago, she gives that
distinctly. People's liked that gentleman, Ladye
knew him. Seems to Feda as if he had comed
from a walk, as if he had walked from a distance
to that house. Feda knows she's got it on the
tip of her tongue to give Feda a name or some-
thing {s.v. The letter M. Force—Force—Force
—
Perforce—Berforce. It's got something else before
it, but it finishes up like Berforce, and Prang
—
Prank—Prang) and there was a name that seemed
to start like that too.
U. V. T. I've not caught on yet.
F- She says you'll have to write this down and put it
by, it will come out quite clearly afterwards.
U. V. T. (Who was not sure that Feda had made an M.)
How did she make that M. Feda ?
r. Like that (Feda draws on the arm of U. V. T.'s
chair).
U. V. T. If that's an M., it's facing you Feda.
F. No ! (Feda draws a W. clearly in the air.)
U. V. T. That's a W. Feda.
F. Yes, Feda often makes a mistake between an M. and
a W. {S.v. Perrington—Perrington—) Can't get
that very clearly, but it sounds like that to Feda.
M. R. H. I think I'm getting on to it.
F. {S.v. Perrington—Perrington.) That's the name that
Feda's trying to get that sounded ]i\e Pang.
M. R. H. Ask Ladye if the first letter is right, I don't think
it is.
F. NO.
U. V. T. Can't you get it ?
F. Shell try. (Draws on U. V. T.'s hand.)
Lxxxn.] Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 49
U. V. T. I can't understand that.
F. Mrs. Twonnie, look ! (Draws in the air, and M. R. H.
carmot understand.) {S.v. Ferrin—S-ss—Ger—Ger.)
Not that, that isn"t right. You see she wants
you to know that it's like that word which is
something Errington. {S.v. Werrmgton.) Not that,
that's not right, anyhow it's a word that sounds
hke that. {S.v. Berrington—Berrington !)
M. R. H. That's right.
F. The P. and the B. sounds aUke sometimes.
U. V. T. Yes.
M. R. H. Is the dog and B. connected 1
F, No they isn't ! ! She Imows what you're thinking of
Mrs. Twonnie, you've got half right and not the
other half. Berrington is the right name she says.
She says there's some kind of a connection, the
dog and Berrington is not quite connected, and
yet there is some sort of a connection.
TJ. V. T. Can't you get the fii'st letter of the dog's name ?
F. Wait a minute Ladye. It's towards Mrs. Twonnie
she's making it. It seems to start Jer—Jer—Jer.
Feda can't get him. Feda don't know why she
keeps on building up an R. now, look Mrs.
Twonnie, she's building it towards you !
M. R. H. That's right for one dog, but I can't make out
which dog this is.
F. It's really not connected with Berrington, no it's
not. {S.v. After the R. it's over hke that.)
(Feda draAvs in the air towards M. R. H., the
draAving is not clear, and U. V. T. hands a block
and a pencil to Feda, Feda begins scribbMng and
remarks nice place !
" Subsequent examination
showed that Feda had tried to dra^w a house not
very successfully.)
U. V. T. Now after the R., what comes ? (M. R. H. gets up
and hands a fresh block to U. V. T., who gives
it to Feda. Feda begins writing all over the
block.)
F. Wait a minute, Ladye ! (Feda draws without
looking at the block, her head is shghtly turned
50 Ilrs. W. H. Salter. [part
away.) It's all dirty places now ! (Hands the
block to U. V. T. which is witten all over with
names, among them appears the name " Rune.^ ")
U. V. T. (to M. R. H.). She's written Rune.
F. She was reaUy trying to write that name up in the
air. She knows all those names what's written.
M. R. H. Am I to take it that Rune and the dog are con-
nected ?
F. Yes, they's connected, but in a different way to
what you tried to suggest that Berrington and the
dog were connected.
M. R. FT. Yes, I understand.
F. (S.v. Rune, Runie. But it doesn't spell Runie, it
spells Rune ! but she says Runie.) Feda knows
how to spell Rune, but she calls it Runie. Is it
right Ladye ? Yes, she says it's right. That's a
funny name !
Concerning the description of the dog given above, Miss
Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge in their notes to the
sitting state that it is
correct for M. R. H.'s sable collie who died on January
18, 1918. . . . Feda goes a little wrong when she speaks
of his having longer hair that is wavy on the tips of his
ears. The collie, whose name was Rufus, had not got
perceptibly long, and certainly not wavy, hair on the end
of his ears, though it must be admitted that the hair
grew down slightly beyond the tips. Feda is right when
she states that his coat was not quite straight, however.
Feda's statement that this dog is lumpier " than Lady
Troubridge's terrier, that its feet are longer and bigger,
and that it has longer hairs sticking out from the end of
its feet is also said to be correct. Witli regard to the
colour of the dog's eyes they were not hazel, as stated by
Feda, but they were also not dark like the eyes of the
terrier.
^ There were five names besides Rune, all apparently names of
persons ; four out of the five are known by Miss Radclyffe-Hall to
have been the names of friends of A. V. B.'s.
Lxxxii.] Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Trouhridge. 51
They were of a light golden-brown colour ;
they were
beautiful eyes, as she says ; the rims were black, and the
eyes wide apart. It is not quite apparent what Feda
means when she says that the dog had something darker
on his nose. The dog's nose was black, but what she
may have noticed is that the hair receded a little on the
bridge of the nose, exjaosing the black skin.
A more detailed description of this dog was obtained
at a later sitting (see below, p. 55).
There is some confusion at first concerning the owner-
ship of the dog. In reply to a question it is intimated
that Lady Troubridge will like to see him when she
" goes over to the spirit-world " ; this statement is at
once corrected, and it is said that the dog was one which
A. V. B. knew. In point of fact, although it is correct
to say that A. V. B. knew the dog, he belonged to Miss
Radcly£fe-Hall, as was recognised at a later sitting. A
good point is made when it is stated that A. V. B.
' takes more interest in animals now than she did when
she was here," since during her lifetime A. V. B. had not
been much interested in animals.^ Feda's statement con-
cerning the date of the dog's death, that he had died
" a good long while " after A. V. B. but not " just
lately "'
may be considered fairly correct, but is not very
definite. The dog had been dead about seven weeks at
the time of this sitting and had died nineteen months
after A. V. B., the date of whose death Feda must be
held to know approximately, since at Miss Radclyffe-Hall's
first sitting, in August, 1916, A. V. B. was correctly said
to have died recently.
In reply to a request for " some details about that dog's
life " Feda describes a house in the country ; she also
describes a man in some way connected with this house
and gives two names. The house is identified by Miss
I
Radclyffe-Hall as Highfield House, one of two houses at
i
Malvern Wells in which the dog had spent most of his
life. Highfield House had already been described by
A. V. B. through Feda (see Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XXX.,
p. 383) ; the distinctive feature in the later description
1 Cf. Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XXX., pp. 362 and 495.
52 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PABT
with which we are here concerned is the allusion to the
house being raised up, " as if there was a kind of bank
had been built and the house builted on top of it."
Highfield House, Miss Radclyffe-Hall states,
stood upon a high terrace, and the terrace had evidently
been built, as it was supported by a strong stone wall.
Feda says there is a flight of steps going up to the door
'"not just two or three," and that the ground-floor windows
seem a bit high. There was such a flight of steps
leading up to the door of Highfield House, and the ground-
floor windows were perhaps higher than is customary.
After the description of the house Feda describes a man
in country clothes who, she says, used to go frequently
to the house ; she then gives two names, first a name
" like Berforce " and in connexion with it a letter M,
subsequently corrected to W in reply to a question from
Lady Troubridge, and secondly a name that is first said
to " start like " Prang and is afterwards given as Per-
rington.
There would seem to be some confusion in connecting
the man whom Feda describes with Highfield House, for
in connexion with that house Miss Radclyffe-Hall can
remember no such person. She says, however, that the
description would apply well to a certain " Squire Ber-
rington " who occasionally visited A. V. B. and herself at
The White Cottage, Malvern Wells, the house to which
Miss Radclyffe-Hall moved from Highfield House ; "he
always wore a tweed suit and invariably carried a stick ;
he knew the dog Rufus quite well." In view of the fact
that the name Perrington is spontaneously given and ^ after
Feda has been told that the initial letter is wrong is
eventually corrected to Berrington, there seems little doubt
that it was to Mr. Berrington that the communicator
intended to refer. But if so. Miss Radclyffe-Hall says,*
a mistake is certainly made when Feda describes his
walking round the house and shouting to some one at
the window, as Mr. Berrington was not an intimate friend
and would never have been so informal.
Lxxxii.] Miss Raddyjfe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 53
This allusion would seem to be a picturesque addition by
Feda.
The supposition that reference to Mr. Berrington was
intended is strengthened by the fact that in connexion
with the man in the tweed suit and the name that
" starts like " Prang, given afterwards as Perrington, an
attempt is made at a name hke " Berforce." Miss Rad-
clyffe-Hall says that at Malvern Wells she and A. V. B.
knew a Mr. Wilberforce, who was also a friend of Mr.
Berrington's. - There is a special reason why A. V. B.
should remember this Mr. Wilberforce, and he was entirely
connected with that part of her life that was associated
with Malvern Wells and the collie, but with the White
Cottage, and not with Highfield House.
Mr. Wilberforce formed one of the little group of Roman
Catholics that included, among others, A. V. B., Miss
Radclyffe-Hall and Mr. Berrington. It would certainly
appear as if the statements made at the sitting were, in
part at least, derived from a group of A. V. B.'s memories,
the communicator having by a natural sequence of ideas
passed from the recollection of one house at Malvern
Wells to that of another without the transition being
made apparent. A similar confusion arose on the occasion
of an earlier reference to Highfield House and The White
Cottage (see Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XXX., p. 383). Whether
such a confusion exists in the mind of the communicator,
or only occurs in the process of transmitting ideas to the
medium, is a problem which we have no means of solving
until we know far more than we do at present of the
method of communication.
Partly in consequence of the confusion described above,
the sitters were not absolutely certain to what dog Feda
was referring. In reply to a question as to what was the
first letter of the dog's narne, she suggests that the name
starts with a sound like " Jer.'" She then apparently
corrects this statement by saying that A. V. B. is drawing
the letter R. Having been told that this letter would be
correct in reference to one dog, and having been given a
block and pencil, Feda proceeds to draw first a house and
54 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
then a group of names, amongst them in large letters the
name RUNE, which in reply to a question she says is
connected with the dog. The dog's name, as has been
mentioned above, was Rufus, but Miss Radclyffe-Hall
frequently called him Rune. The writing of this name
by Feda therefore constitutes an excellent point of evi-
dence, which is further strengthened by Feda's remark
that although A. V. B. has written " Rune," she says
" Runie." " Runie " was another form of the dog's pet
name often used by Miss Radclyffe-Hall. Upon the
question of what knowledge derived from normal sources
Mrs. Leonard might have had concerning the dog. Miss
Radclyffe-Hall informs us that in August 1917, when
Rufus was still alive, Lady Troubridge had mentioned to
Mrs. Leonard that Miss Radclyffe-Hall possessed a collie.
This information was given during a short visit to Mrs.
Leonard in Devonshire for the purpose of holding sittings ;
a record was kept of the various points mentioned during
that visit. Mrs. Leonard's love of dogs led to a reference
being made to the collie, but no mention was made of
his name, or nickname, and no description was given of
the dog beyond naming his breed. Moreover, at the
sitting of March 6, 1918, the dog is represented as being
^'
in the spirit-world," whereas in August 1917 Rufus was
alive ; his death, in January 1918, did not occur in Miss
Radclyffe- Hall's house ; it was sudden, and, in view of the
possibility that it might be mentioned in a sitting, care was
taken that as few people should know of it as possible.
But even if Mrs. Leonard had heard by accident of the
dog's death, she could not have learnt his nickname
except by particular enquiry. In the early days of their
sittings, steps were taken by Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady
Troubridge to ascertain whether Mrs. Leonard was by way
of making enquiries concerning her sitters, and the residt
of this investigation was entirel}^ favourable to Mrs.
Leonard.
Three other points were given at the sitting of March 6,
1918, as having some connexion with the dog Runie, as
follows: a name like " Maggiore," a person whose name
began with S, and a place with a name of which the first
liXXXii ] Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge . 55
three letters were drawn by Feda as LIN. The reference
to the name Maggiore is not understood by the sitters ;
A. V. B. and Miss Radclyffe-Hal] had visited Lago
Maggiore together, but this visit had no association with
the dog. The man's name beginning with S might be
that of the veterinary surgeon with whom the dog had
been boarded on several occasions. This interpretation is
confirmed b}^ the allusion immediately afterwards to a
place-name beginning LIN. The veterinary surgeon's
kennels were at Malvern Link, commonly known as
The Link.
We may now pass on to consider the further references
made to the dog at a later sitting on April 17, 1918.
This sitting took place immediately after the period of
three months discussed in this paper, but it will be
convenient for obvious reasons to include it here.
The relevant extract from the sitting, at which Lady
Troubridge was again the sitter and Mss Radcly£fe-HaU
the recorder, runs as follows :
Feda. {S.v. . . . What is it, a dog ? Whose dog ; wait
a mmute, wait a minute, can't quite see him
Ladye.) Feda can"t quite see him but she's got
a big dog with her, quite a big one. He's not
the short haired kind, he's got long hair, on his
shoulders it seems to, go like that (Feda makes a
gesture indicative of hair turning up at the ends),
it turns out and looks pretty on his shoulders.
It's nice and long all over him. He's got a
.
,
pretty big head, and he's got a long face like
that (indicates a pointed muzzle), a long, sloping
face, and his forehead's rather broad. Somehow
you would call his a forehead, not all animals you
wouldn't say that about, but you'd say he had a
no-bel forehead, like you would for Soliver [Sir
Oliver Lodge], 'cos he has that. Look, Ladye
says dignified. His eyes isn't set close together
like most dogs' eyes, there's a space between,
and they's a beautiful broAvny colour, almost like
a hazelly look, and the rims is dark, and they
56 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
droops a little at the comers (Feda indicates
outside corner of eye), and it gives him a proud
look. Looks to Feda as if he was darker £at
the end, here (touches nose), and he's got some
—no they isn't spots, some kind of little marks,
just round the end of his slope.
U. V. T. You mean his muzzle ?
F. Why muzzle ? You puts that on ! .
'
U. V. T. A dog's nose is called a muzzle.
F. How funny ! There's little dots what shows up
rather plainly Feda thmks, around his mouth and
nose. Can you say his chin ?
U. V. T. Yes.
*F. His chm looks a little bit setted-looking. .
M. R. H. What about this dog ?
F. He's a nice dog, he's in the Spirit World with Ladye,
and Laclye is keeping him for you.
U. V. T. For whom ?
F. For her (indicates M. R. H.). Look, on his legs his
hair isn't so long, and on the front of his legs his
hair is glossy and smooth, it's like velvet and
smooth, it's all smooth and close to the skin ; it
was so silky that sometimes it nearly shone. You
laiow his feet ? well his toes was nicely divided,
and it seems as if they was lighter at the ends.
His toes isn't very pointed, they's rounded, and
you can feel they's fat, nice, little short, fat toes
goes round his foot, and they's properly divided.
His feet is somehow different to other dogs' feet.
He had nice thick straight legs, not like this
(makes gesture indicative of bandy legs), he holds
his head up straight, that's what makes him
no-bel looking.
U. V. T, Has he got a tail Feda ?
F. Yes, he's got one, Feda can't see it plainly 'cos he's
sitting on it. Feda's sure he's got one, 'cos out of
the back of him there sticks a thing like a feather,
like the soldiers what sits on horses has on their
hats ! Oh, now he's sta.nding up, Ladye went
like this to him (Feda snaps her fingers), and
Lxxxn.] Miss Raddyjfe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 57
Feda sees that he isn't holding it up on his back,
like what Ching does, he's holding it like a little
down and out. Give Feda something and she'll
draw it. (A block and pen are handed to Feda,
who draws the hind quarters of a dog, and a
line indicative of the angle at which a collie
carries his tail.) It's feathery at the ends.
M. R. H. Does he laiow I am here ?
F. 'Course ! that's what he comes for. He's got a
really faithful face ; he nearly speaks.
M. R. H. I've missed him very much, I wish he could under-
stand.
F. He understood an awful lot on the earth plane
Ladye says ;
well, she says, he understands a
thousand times more now. Ladye says that now
you don't have to try and tell him, 'cos you can
see by the twinkle in his eye and by his smile
that he understands. Ladye says you know he had
a wonderful expression before, on the earth plane,
she says perhaps everyone thinks their dogs has
an expression, but she says that everyone says
that this one has a wonderful expression, she says
^
you can truthfully say he smiles or looks serious..
She wants to say that he often goes to Mrs.
Twonnie and he listens to her. Ladye says he
understands how much she loved him, and he's
always sajdng m a confidential and re-assuring
way, " It's all right, and you can tell me all that
when you come over." Ladye says you needn't
pour yourself out to him, 'cos he sits and looks
at you and says, " Don't worry, don't worry, we
can talk about that when you come over."
M. R. H. Do dogs talk on your side ?
F. No ! he says it with his mind. Look, Ladye says
they don't speak, but you remember that she told
you before that when peoples gets tired of speaking
in the Spirit World how beautiful and comforting
it was to be able to project thoughts ;
well, that's,
how IVIrs. Twonnie and the dog -v^dll talk to each,
other. . . .
.38 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
M. R. H. I'm so glad you've brought that big dog.
F. She's often wanted to bring him, but just because
you wanted so much it was difficult, she feels as
if she's tried for months and months. If peoples
only knowed, telepathy is a most difficult thing.
The dog is over by Mrs. Twonnie now.
M. R. H. I'm glad.
F. He is sitting there just by your side, and he does
this (makes a gesture of lifting up the paws) ;
keep your hand out so he can put his head under
it. His head is like velvet too, he puts his head
a little bit on one side ; he is standing up now,
he looks like a judge, he holds his head a bit on
one side. You know when he wants to look at
you straight, he doesn't always look straight, he
looks kind of sideways. It's easier to get the dog
when you sits Mrs. Una, 'cos you doesn't want
him so much, but Ladye says he's been before ;
he goes to see her every day (indicates M. R. H.).
He's an awful big dog to get on the bed, but he
gets on to it, he lays the side of his head by
Mrs. Twonnie's ear. Ladye says he comes up
mostly in the mornings on the bed. There's a
good many dogs in the Spirit 'World, several dogs
that you and Mrs. Twonnie will be pleased to see,
but this is a very special dog, he's more than a
dog he's a person, and he lives in the house not
in a kennel, he lives like what you call a Christian.
Ladye says he understands so much. (S.v. He
used to have a plate, a plate, a plate, don't know
what it is Ladye, when he was here ?)
M. R. H. I don't understand that.
F. It was—look, it had a kind of rim deeper than most
plates, he didn't have it all day but he had it
sometime like specially. You'll remember after,
looks to Feda like a plate a person would have.
M. R. H. Can you see the colour of his fur ?
F. (Begins drawing on U. V. T.'s hand.) (S.v. She's
trying to write his coat.)
U. V. T. That's a B.
ixxxii.] Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 59
F. Then like that (draws on U. V. T."s hand B.R.O.W.N.)
(S.v. Yes but she says it isn't quite an ordinary
brown, they wouldn't call it brown ;
they'd call
it another colour, but brown is as near as Feda
can get.) Ladye says they'd call it a different
sounding name altogether. (Feda begins to draw
on U. V. T.'s hand.)
u. V. T. Whats that ?
F. Can't get him properly.
U. V. Write that first letter in the air (Feda di'aws
intelligibly in the air).
un-
u, V. T, I thought I understood that first letter.
After it comes a letter like that (draws in the
unintelligibly).
air
U. V. T. Do it on my hand (Feda draws something
U. V. T.'s hand). Is that printed ?
on
F. No, wroted.
TJ. V. T. Never mind I can't follow.
F. It looked like an S. to Feda.
V. V. T. Yes, she did an S. in the air.
The description of the dog which is said to be present
a,t the sitting of April 17, 1918, so closely resembles the
earlier description given on March 6, 1918, that on that
.score alone it would appear almost certain that the same
dog was referred to upon each occasion, and any doubt
there might be on the point is removed by further refer-
ences to the matter made by the A. V. B. control later
in the sitting of April 17, thus :
M. R. H. I'm glad you brought that dog.
A. V. B. I've brought him over and over again, and I told
you his name, but I didn't connect it up with
him. I gave you his name and it's most im-
portant.
And, again, after some references to another topic :
A. V. B. Rune, I knew you would be pleased, darling.
M. R. H. It was sweet of you to bring him.
A. V. B. You knew I'd have him, and he does love you.
60 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
It will be remembered that at the sitting of March 6,
1918, the name Rune was given as being in some way
connected with the dog there described, although the
nature of the connexion was not clearly indicated. It i&
doubtless to this slight confusion that A. V. B. is alluding
above when she says : "I told you his name, but I didn't
connect it up with him." It will be remembered that on
the earlier occasion (see above, p. 46) there was some
confusion in regard to the ownership of the dog ; on this
occasion the dog is clearly recognised as having belonged
to Miss Radclyffe-Hall, for A. V. B. is said to be " keeping
the dog for " her. The description of the dog given on
April 17, 1918, is good and more detailed than the de-
scription of March 6, 1918. Miss Radclyffe-Hall says in
her note :
Feda makes a good jjoint when, in describing the hair
on the dog's shoulders, she says that it turns out. and
indicates by gesture hair turning upwards at the ends.
This, although not at all classical in a collie, was char-
acteristic of the collie Rufus. Feda is correct when in
speaking of the eyes she implies that they are not of a
very dark brown. The little marks at the end of the
muzzle to which Feda alludes, are probably the little
marks at the root of the whiskers that are visible on the
muzzles of many dogs, and which were particularly visible
in Rufus, whose muzzle was white. As Feda states, the
hair on Rufus's legs was glossy and extremely velvety
and smooth. A good point is made regarding his toes,
which are said to be nicely divided ; a photograph of
him in my possession, which has never been seen by
Mrs. Leonard, shows this peculiarity of rather markedly
divided toes very clearly. Feda says that the toes look
Ughter at the ends, which would be true of one foot
which was white, the leg being brown ; Rufus's other legs
and feet were white laearly all over. Feda makes another
good point when she says the toes are not pointed, but
are rounded, and that you can feel that they are " little,
short, fat toes." This was a peculiarity of Rufus, so
much so that a lady who knew him used to remark that
xxxxii.] Miss Roddyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 61
his feet and ankles reminded her of an old gentleman
of the foppish type, wearing very tight boots and tight
white spats. On March 6th, 1918, Avhen describing
Rufus's feet, Feda said that they were bigger and longer
than those of U. V. T.'s terrier Benjamin (see above,
p. 46), and that also was correct, as owing to his breed-
ing, and the fact that he is a small dog, Benjamin gives
the appearance of having hardly any feet at all, a marked
characteristic, and a show point of prize-bred wii-e-haired
terriers ;
therefore, although Rufus's feet were plump and
round, and tight-looking, they were bigger and longer
than are Benjamin's. Just after the reference to the feet
in the sitting of April 17 Lady Troubridge asked a trick
question, namely whether this dog had got a tail. She
wondered whether Feda would describe a short tail like
Benjamin's, or no tail at all, as she had done when
referring to a bob-tailed sheep dog at another lady's
sitting. But Feda was not caught out, for she proceeded
to give a correct description of a collie's tail.
After Miss Radclyfie-Hall's statement that she had
missed the dog very much and wished he could under-
stand, Rufus is represented as saying, "in a confidential
and re-assuring way,'" " It's all right, and you can tell
me all that when you come over." " Don't worry, we
can talk about that when you come over."' Now Miss
Radclyffe-Hall's words do not on the face of them imply
anything more than natural regret at the loss of an old
pet, but the reply put into the dog's mouth seems to
imply that Miss RadclylJe-Hall had been worried about
something which she would like to have an opportunity
of explaining to the dog. And this was in fact the case.
Miss Radclyffe-Hall had been feeling some remorse in
regard to the dog Rufus, ever since his death on January
18, 1918, for a reason which she thus explains in her
note :
The dog was sent to board in the country in the
summer of 1917, as he could not be taken to the lodging-
house where I spent my holiday. On my return in the
autumn [to London] I had intended to have Rufus home.
62 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
but the air-raids became so bad, and Rufus had showed
such terror of them in the past that it was decided to
leave him where he was until I settled in a country
abode. . . . The order had just been given to send the
dog to Datchet when a telephone message came through
in the evening to say that he was dying.
Owing to the breakdown of a motor, Miss Radclyffe-HalL
was unable to reach Rufus before he died, and con-
sequently it had been much on her mind that the dog,,
having spent his last months away from herself, to whom
he was devoted, had died alone. It was therefore appro-
priate that Feda should ascribe to the dog words which
seem to imply on the part of Miss Radclyffe-Hall a desire
to clear up some misunderstanding. As already stated,
precautions had been taken to keep any knowledge of the
dog's death from Mrs. Leonard, and, except Lady Trou-
bridge, no living person knew that Miss Radclyffe-Hall
thought she had anything to reproach herself wath in
regard to Rufus.
After a digression concerning the terrier Benjamin
(omitted above), some further statements are made about
Rufus, all but one of which were correct. The habit of
holding " his head a bit on one side " and looking " kind
of sideways '"
was characteristic of the dog, and used to
be commented on when he was alive. It is also appro-
priate to say of Rufus that "he lives in the house, not
in a kennel, he lives like what you call a Christian."
The dog during his lifetime was always kept in the house,
and Feda makes a correct distinction upon this point
between Rufus and Lady Troubridge's terrier Billy, con-
cerning whom she said at a sitting on December 6, 1916,
that he was not kept in the house, but " just outside
"
(see S.P.R. Proc, Vol. XXX., p. 487). Mere guessing on
Feda's part might have led her to surmise that a dog as
large as the one she had described on April 17, 1918,.
would be kept out of doors.
In reply to a question as to the colour of the dog's
coat, Feda says it is brown, but, she says, it would be
called by another name. She does not get nearer to this
Lxxxii.] Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 63
name than to give the first letter, S. The dog was a
sable colhe.
The point upon which Feda goes wrong is in describing
a particular plate which the dog is said to have used.
Rufus never had a plate of his own, but it is not an
uncommon thing for a dog that is much petted to have
a special plate, and Feda would seem to be indulging her
fancy here by adding what seems to her a likely touch.
2. A Group of Names.
On several occasions during this period unusual names
with which A. V. B. had been very familiar during her
life were spontaneously given in the trance. One of these
incidents occurred on March 13, 1917, during a "personal
control," that is to say, when A. V. B. was pur-
porting to communicate directly, by using the medium's
organism herself, and not through the usual intermediary
Feda. The relevant extract from the record is as follows :
A. V. B. Morizion, Moritza, Morenze, oh isnt it annoying !
It's something I wanted to remember, a name.
More, Moren, Moren, Moren, Moren was the word,
with something else after it, Moren.
M. R. H. I think you're getting near.
A. V. B. Morena, Morena, Morenie, Morena !
M. R. H. I think you've said a word I recognise. I recognise
Morena.
A. V. B. I know, Morena was quite good to get through, it
isn't an ordinary word, is it ? There's something
so excruciatingly funny about these sittings some-
times, just getting words through. Morena is
more to do with the past, and B., oh darling
some wretched word that begins with a B, too.
M. R. H. Quite right.
A. V. B. And some awful and wretched word too— and
some wretched person whose name begins with an
L too, they're all wretched when I can't get their
names.
'64 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Commenting on the above extract, Miss Radclyffe-Hall
says :
Morena was a nickname given by A. V. B. to a friend,
the lady to whom this name was given being very dark.
Nobody except A. V. B. and I ever called her by this
name. A. V. B. is correct when she says that Morena
is more to do with the past, she is also correct when
she links up with this name the letters B and L. Two
intimate friends of Morena's, both people very well known
to A. V. B., have names that begin with a B and with
an L. These two people were intimately associated with
the whole of A. V. B.'s friendship with Morena.
Again, on March 27, 1918, w^hen Lady Troubridge w^as
the sitter and Miss Radclyffe-Hall the recorder, a block
and a pencil were given to Feda, who was controlling at
the time, and she wrote upon it the name Robert. Later
in the sitting the following incident occurred :
U. V. T. Ladye, shall I ask you a question to amuse you ?
You wrote a name here (indicates the block) called
Robert. You knew a Robert, but you didn't call
him Robei't, what did you call him ?
F. She"s laughing. (Feda begins drawing in the air, but
her letters cannot be followed.)
IT. V. T. Make it a printed letter.
F. A stroke down and a piece. (Feda draws a vertical
line in the air \\itli a horizontal line sticking on to
the side of it.)
U. V. T. That is no letter at all.
F. She says it is, the piece is a curve. (Feda draws
unintelligibly on U. V. T."s hand.)
U. V. T. That's like a mouse walking over your hand.
F. She says don t think her silly, but when you said
that, it reminded her of something to do with
Robert, now she"s building this up (Feda draws
an R. followed by other unintelligible letters).
U. V. T. I think she's Avriting Robert.
F. She says no ! she doesn't want to write Robert !
Lxxxii.] Miss Radclyjfe-Hall and Una, Lady Trouhridge. 65
U. V. T. Ladye, do try and write in capitals.
F. One straight line, and another straight line, and a
bar across him. (Feda draws H. distinctly in the
air.)
U. V. T. That's an H.
F. Now like this. (Feda draws an I. in the air.)
U. V. T. Yes, H.I.
F. Do it again, now, after the I. Ladye. (She draws
indistinctly on U. V. T.'s hand.) Can you get
that ? it's a round thing mth a piece on him.
(Feda leaves U. V. T.'s hand and draws a D. in
the air.)
U. V. T. Yes, that's a D.
F. No, Ladye, that's not right, well like this ? (Feda
draws an A. in the air.) Not quite right Ladye,
she must go back. (Feda draws in the air H.I.D.A.
and then a letter that is not understood.)
U. V. T. Can you print the letter after A. Ladye ?
F. Yes she must. Ladye, that isn't a printed letter !
(Feda draws a printed G. in the air.) {S.v.
Hidagio. Hidagio. Hidag. Hidagil. Hidagio.)
What a funny name ! Well she's doing that.
—
(Feda draws in the air H.I.D.A.G.O.) (S.v.
Hidaljo ! Hidaljo !) She forgot the L., but she
can say it.^
U. V. T. How ?
F. Hidaglio. (This was pronounced as if it were
Italian.) Yes, but she put a G. in it, that's not
•
how she spelt it! [S.v. Hidaglio.)
It will be seen that in reply to a question as to what
was the name which A. V. B. gave to a friend of hers
called Robert, Feda drew the letters H I D A G 0 and
stated that a letter L had been omitted between the
^Possibly the omission of tlie letter L was due to a confusion with
the word " dago," meaning a foreigner, a word probably known to Mrs.
Leonard.
'
E
66 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
letters A and G, thus giving Hidalgo. Commenting upon
this, Lady Troubridge and Miss Radclyffe-Hall say :
The connexion between Robert and the nickname
Hidalgo is very interesting. Robert C was a great
friend of A. V. B.'s and M. R. H.'s ; he is rather Spanish-
lookmg and in consequence was always called Hidalgo by
A. V. B. There appears to have been some difficulty in
making Feda pronoimce this unusual nickname, but she
finally managed to say Hidaljo, and then, giving the name
an Italian pronunciation, Hidaglio. Tactful questioning
has elicited the fact that J\Irs. Leonard once tried to learn
Spanish, but did not proceed very far. The connexion
between Robert and the mouse is not understood, but may
be correct.
A third case of a distinctive name bemg given
occurred on April 3, 1918, during a personal control, thus :
A. V. B. I'm beginning to be able to think. (S.v. Selber
—
Selbar—) I can't get it, darling. Sem—Sem
—
Sember—Samber—Sembar— isn't it stupid ! Sem
—
ber—ru—ne—ne—ne. Sem—ber—ne—Sem—ben
—
ne—nel—ned.
M. R. H. That's very near.
A. V. B. I know when I'm near, but it doesn't make it easier
to get it. Next time I get it it's changed mto
something else. {S.v. Sembenet—Sem-bennett—
-
Sembennett—Sem Bennett—Sem Bene-e-e-) Per-
haps if I sing it ! I've got Sem Ben ; Sem
Bennetti—Sem Bennetti—Benetti—Benetti—Ti—te
—
Sem—Benetti—Sem Benetti—netti—nette—nett
—
Tis—ti—tis—tenni. (MeanwhUe A. V. B. is feeling
U. V. T.'s face with her hand.) Oh darling t
I didn't know I was pinching Una's nose. (The
voice here was very like A. V. B.'s.) Let me get
another breath and try again. Fi—Sembenet—fi
—
fit. (Some unintelligible whispering.) I'm getting
P mixed up with it now, and I do want to
get it, it's so amusing ! (More inarticulate whisper-
Lxxxii.] Miss Eadclyjfe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge. 67
ing.) I can get so far, and can't get any further.
Sem Benett—Sem Benetti. I wish I could get
further than that, but I can't.
The name which A. V. B. was apparently trying to
give on this occasion was that of the well-known Italian
poet Sem Benelli. She gets as near to this name as
Sem Benetti. In order to make it clear why A. V. B.
might wish to mention this name, some account must be
given of two incidents which occurred at previous sittings.
On March 20, 1918, A. V. B. gave a book-test from a
row of Italian books at Miss Radclyffe-Hairs flat in
London specially set aside for that purpose ; it was said
at this sitting that, in accordance with a suggestion
previously made to her, A. V. B. was collaborating with
a communicator whom we will call E. A. ; in the course
of giving this test she referred to a picture or photograph
said to be in one of the " test-books."" Several of those
books were by Sem Benelli and had photographs of the
author pasted inside.
On March 26, 1918, at a sitting taken by Mrs. D. (see
below, p. 68), E. A. purported to communicate and to
give a test from the same row of books from which
A. V. B.'s test had been taken on March 20, 1918. It
was said on this second occasion that there was a picture
connected with the test books, the picture was said to be
black and white, and Feda endeavoured to pronounce a
word which she said was connected with this picture.
She did not however get beyond ejaculating :
" Ser
—
Se—Se." She described the picture as being three-
quarter length, and when given a block and pencil, she
wrote :
" South, Sul, Sir,"' and then " Se " followed by
an indeterminate letter. The book-test began by the
mention of this picture in which E. A. evinced consider-
able interest. The description given by him through Feda
would apply to one of the photographs pasted into the
test-books, and the description given by A. V. B. on
March 20, 1918, would apply to another. It is therefore
easy to understand why A. V. B. should be interested in
the name Sem Benelli and should endeavour to mention
68 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PART
it at the sitting of April 3, 1918, especially as Sem Benelli
is a personal friend of Lady Troubridge's.
§11. J. D.'s Sittings.
Three sittings were held during the period under review
by a lady whose name is known to the Society (of which
she is a member), but who will be referred to here as
J. D. J. D. has had a considerable number of sittings
with Mrs. Leonard, at which a friend of hers, whom we
\^dll call E. A., has purported to communicate. I have
selected for mention here two incidents, of which one
seems to indicate some knowledge of a contemporary
event unknown at the time to the sitter.
" - •
Extract from sitting of February 22, 1918. :
Fbda. He says what's the matter with the top of the
house ? - .
...
J. D. My house in the country ?
Feda. Yes, he's laughing, he says he explores. He says
there is something the matter.
J. D. I must look.
Feda. He says he explores and sees automatically and
thinks, " Oh, I'll tell J. that next time." He
. doesn't mean to say he jumps down chimneys, but
he naturally has access to different parts of the
house to what you have.
'•
.
'
Comment by the sitter. :
'
When I arrived home at 6 p.m. the evening after the
sitting, the first thing I heard was that the smoking-
room chimney had been on fire that day about 12.30
[p.m.], the very time E. A. asked me if anything was
wrong.
The contemporary record of the sitting notes that it
began at 11.35 a.m. and ended at 1.10 p.m. The reference
to there being " something wrong with the top of the
house " occurred towards the end of the sitting, probably
Lxxxn.] J. D.'s Sittings. 69
between 12.30 and 12.45 p.m. The allusion to " jumping
down chimneys " suggests that the connexion of the
trouble with a chimney has been imperfectly transmitted.
The second incident I shall quote here occurred during
a part of the sitting when E. A. was purporting to
control the medium directly.
Extract from, sittmg of March 26, 1918.
E. A. Do you remember a dog's name beginning wdth
a T ?
J. D. No, I don't.
E. A. ... And Ger—, I think it was G or J, it had a
J sound.
J. D. A dog ?
E. A. Yes, not a pig, my dear.
J. D. (To the recorder.) Make a particular note of the
pig.
E. A. Yes, the pig is pork long ago ! Dear, where you
photographed with the pig ?
J. D. Yes, you had a photograph of me with the pig.
E. A. Yes, isn't there a line running along the lower part
of the photograph behind you, suggesting a path-
way ?
J. D. Yes.
E. A. And a border, a rather narrow border.
J. D. Yes.
Comment by the sitter.
Six or seven years ago I had a pet pig that I had
brought up from a tiny thing with a bottle. I gave
E. A. in 1912 a snapshot of myself with the pig. I was
standing on a grass path with a border of high flowers
behind.
§ III. Mrs. Beadon's Sittings.
Mrs. Beadon is a member of the Society, and an
incident which occurred at one of her sittings with Mrs.
Leonard has already been recorded in the Jo^irnal (Vol.
Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
XIX., p. 226) ; some of her book-tests also are recorded
in Mrs. Sidgwick's recent paper (Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XXXI.,
I). 260 ff). On the occasion referred to below she took the
notes of the sitting herself, as she usually does. She is
an experienced sitter and a careful recorder. The pur-
porting communicator is her husband, Colonel Beadon ;
the names of the other persons concerned are known to
the Society, but pseudonyms are used here ; in selecting
the pseudonym Redhorn (see opposite) care has been
taken to represent as accurately as possible the degree of
success attained by Feda in giving the real name.
Extract from the sitting of March 16, 1918.
Peda. He [the communicator] was much worried about her
[his sister]. He didn't think she was well. . . .
There's something worrying in her condition. She
is very worried about some one and the worst of
it is she can't do anything, but there is some one
on this side helping.
^
He keeps on giving [R 2]
He shows the picture of an elderly man between
fifty and sixty, taller than Mr. Will [the com-
municator], wears glasses. He is on the earth
plane. (Feda draws in the air [AND RE W^]).
. . . The news is not so bad as Mr. Will
expected it to be. It is not that nothing ha-s
happened ; it is bad enough and a proper worry,
but not so bad as he thought it was going to be.
Comments by the sitter.
1 She [communicator's sister] had just heard (a few days previous
to the sitting) that her son was wounded in Palestine. She
could get no details and was terribly anxious. This was known
to me, but not to the mediiom.
^ Her son's name is [Richard], and though he is always called
[Dick] I took it to mean his initial. What follows further on
makes me think it may have been the one referred to as "some
one on this side helping." [See opposite.]
' This is accurate of the father of the wounded boy. He is
(I think) 52, tall, wears glasses ; name [Andrew].
IXXXII.] Mrs. Beadon's Sittings. 71
Isn't there somebody who is going to send a
telegram ?
^
. . . M [communicator's sister] isn"t ill except
with anxiety. Someone else is iU connected with
Now do you know who this is who is with
Mr. Will ? He is helping the one they are
worried about. Tail well buUt, very nice shaped
face, clear-cut features, good nose, rather straight
mouth. The chin shows the line of the jaw, not
a fleshy chin ; rather deep-set eyes.^
He writes up. (Feda draws in the air :
[W illiam dhorn*]
Feda can't get two of the letters.
He smiles when Feda says ['"William"]. He
says that wasn't what he was generally called.^
He says he saw you last at a place where there
were a lot of people all bowing to each other, a
party.® He says he is happier here than he was
before. He was lonely in his soul, though he was
with other people. He has a sensitive face. He
builds up H \\'hich stands for some people he
knew and you knew very well.''
Comments by the sitter.
1 I sent a telegram to Cox's agent in Palestine and asked him
to wire particulars. We had none at this date and of course
ieared it might be a wound that woiild permanently disable the
Tjoy. Some days later the cable came saying he was shot through
the forearm, no permanent injiu'y.
^ Her second son was on sick leave and causing anxiety.
^ This was a very good description of the man whose name
follows.
* I knew a [William Redhorn], the son of om- family doctor ;
he died 25 years ago. He was a young doctor himself.
^ He was always called [Bill].
* I last saw him at a dance. He got pneim:ionia three days
later and died within a week.
' We had some friends called H who lived near us both
and whom we were both very intimate with.
72 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Sitter. Can he tell me anything else which will be a clue ?
F. He says: "John." You will understand. He is
so glad to come. He tried to come before. .
He says John, John, John, he is here.^ There was
a little girl related to [William], she i3assed over.
He was sorry for somebody else's sake more than
his own.2
Getieral comment by the sitter.
I should like to say that I had seen nothing of [W. R.]'s
family smce we left our old home at R 24 years ago.
I had however met his sister in the street a few days
previous to the sitting, which caused some memories of
old days to pass through my mind vaguely. I did not
dwell on them. This has happened to me at many
sittings, i.e. that I have had communications connected
with some one I have met within a few days of the
sitting.
Comments by the sitter.
1 He had a brother John who was a very dear friend of mine
and who died of consumption some years later.
^ I do not know about this.
Lxxxn.] Appendix. 73
APPENDIX
(The extracts from sittings which appear heloiv are intended to illustrate
various points discussed in Part I. of this j;aper. Thet^ are all taken
from first sittings.)
§ I. Description of Personal Appearance :
1. Young Men - - - -
2. Older Men - - - -
3. Women - - - - -
4. Persons still alive -
§ II. Circumstances and Physical Conditions Associated
with a Communicator's Death :
1. Young Men 99
2. Women and Older Men . - - . 105-
§ III. Descriptions of Articles said to have belonged to
or been associated with a Communicator - - 110
§ IV. Descriptions of Places associated with a Com-
municator -------- 124
§ V. References to Anniversaries - - - - - ] 26
§ VI. Extracts from Two Sittings at which the same
Communicator purported to be present - - 130
§ VII. Some E\ddence of Apparent Communication from
a Person still alive - - - - - - 133^
PAGE
74
85
91
96.
74 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
§ I. Descriptions of Personal Appearance.
1. Young Men.
Extract, from sitting of January 15, 1918.
Feda. Feda wants to describe one of the youngish men. He's
about twenty-eight or thirty, it's a bit difficult to
judge. He's tall and well-built, holds himself
straight. He's about medium build and he walks
well, when he moves about. He's got a fine-looking
face—good features. His face slopes a bit towards
the chin, the chin isn't quite square. The mouth is
about straight, very nice shape. His nose shows the
bridge a bit, it's narrow about the middle and narrow
about the tip, broadening towards the nostrils. The
eyebrows are well-marked, a little arched, brownish.
The forehead is square, not prominent. There's not
much hollow between the forehead and nose. You'd
notice that if you have a photo taken sideways. His
hair is short, a little away from the face. He's got
a brown skin, a little pale, but not naturally. That's
the passing over conditions.
The sitter notes that the age of the communicator,
whom she identifies as her husband, is correctly given.
He was twenty-eight when he died. The description she
considers " quite fairly good," but no point in it appears
to have struck her as especially characteristic.
Extract from sitting of January 17, 1918.
Feda. He ^ brings forward a young man—tall and well-built
—
medium across, not broad—well-proi^ortioned—fine-
shaped face, rather long, not thin—a little bit
rounded—the chin not pointed—a little bit square
—
from sideways it's not prominent—the full face gives
^ An "elderly man" identified by the sitter as her father.
LXXXii.] Description of Personal Appearance. 75
an impression of strength. The lips curved, very
nice shape—:the nose not quite straight—a good skin,
on the fair side, very clear, very clean-looking. Can't
see the eyes yet—eyebrows brownish, well-marked
—
not arched from the nose, sweeping up a bit. The
forehead, good—a straight line up—the head a good
shape. The hair very short, thick, straight on top
—
he brushes it backwards—it grows up a bit. A smart
appearance.
This is said by the sitter to be a good description of
her son killed in the war.
Extract from sitting of January 26, 1920.
Feda. First Feda wants to describe a young man who seems
most impatient ;
{s.v. wait a minute,) he's above
medium height, on the tall side, well builted, not
stout or over broad, a nice shaped face, a bit more
oval than round ;
good features, j^retty regular. A
nice mouth, about medium size and fullness. His
nose is nearly straight, but the tip is rounded, not
pointed. The bridge shows quite a little bit, but it
doesn't make it a aquiline nose, the eyebrows are
darkish, bro-mi, and a little arched, and he has a
forehead what shows a bit square at the temples.
His hair is bromi and quite short, brushed away
from his forehead, (Feda indicates Avith gesture, hair
brushed backwards).
Feda feels he has tried to get into communication
with Feda before, somewhere. His skin is nice,
about medium colour, and he holds his head straight.
His chin isn't pointed, it's round although the face
slopes to it. It's a nice shaped chin and a very
nice shaped face altogether.
The sitter notes that the communicator's height is
wrongly given. He was " if anything under medium
height, but well made."' Of the other statements he
says :
" Quite an accurate and detailed description.
Photographs can prove."
76 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Extract from sitting of January 28, 1918.
Feda. Raymond and Bim are helping a young man to talk
to this young man [the sitter]. He's tall—about
medium—well-built, and holds himself well ;
his face
, . is not quite round, it slopes a bit towards the chin
—
the chin is rounded, pretty broad ;
it's not a pointed
face—a firm mouth about medium sized, the lips a
little full ; he holds his mouth straight, close together.
The nose shows the bridge a little, it comes down
straight and the tip is round—it's not aquiline. His
nose broadens a little at the nostrils—it's not broad
at the bridge. Feda can't see his eyes—blue or
bluey-gi-ey, the eyebrows brown, well-marked, not
very much arched from the centre part, brown, a
good-shaped forehead, rather a straight line, not full
•
the hair brown, cut short at the sides—it sticks up
a little at the top ; he combs it back and a little
sideways ; he doesn't agree it sticks up, but it's a
little raised at the top, fuller.
The sitter notes that " this is quite a good descriptioa
of the communicator I hoped to meet, i.e. my brother."
Later in the sitting Feda made a further reference to
the same communicator's appearance, thus :
Feda. A mark. {S.v. Is it the neck or face or chin 1) It's
the first spirit speaking again. He speaks of a
• •
mark, he rubs the side of his face, something at
. .' .
the side, not a large ugly mark, something small.
He had it towards the end part of his earth life, to
the side of the face, on the left side, somewhere
, under. [Indicates a point under the chin near the
ear.]
This allusion to a mark was not understood by the
sitter.^
'
..
.
1
Cf. the correct allusion to a mark in the sitting of April 4, 1918
(see above, p. 14). These are the only occasions during the period
tmder discussion when allusions were made to a mark on the face.
ixxxn.] Description of Personal Appearance. 77
Extract from sitting of January 29, 1918.
Feda. There's a young man on the other side wants to speak
to you. He kept saying a funny thing. Feda'll
describe him. He's above the medium height, about
'
. medium in build, nice shaped face, a bit too long to
be roimd—a nice skin and complexion—the chin
, .
firm, but kind—the mouth not large, medium, the
.
".. lips not very full, a little curved—the lower part of
the face has got such a kind look, almost like a
girl's—the nose almost straight, not sharp, a tiny bit
broader at the tip—the eyes rather like yours in
colour, the eyebrows a little bit arched, brown—
a
nice forehead, well- developed—pretty broad—the hair
you'd call brown, short, a little longer at the top
and with a crisp Avay of sticking up at the forehead
—
.~ he brushes it away from the forehead—when he
brushes it away, he's got a little bit sticking up a
. little at the top. He's been to you before—he tried
"
. to get through several times. Wait a minute. He
feels you've felt him. He comes at night-time
mostly, a bit in the day-time.
,
Comment by the sitter.
The description given of my son is quite a good one.
The bit of hair sticking up on the top of his head, his
horn, as we called it, was a personal touch. His lips,
described as not very full, was wrong ; he had a very full
underlip, a pecuUarity of his father's family. The photo-
graph, which I enclose . . . shows the almost womanish
sweetness of expression described by Feda.
I give below an extract from a sitting on April 9, 1918.
This extract is included at this point (out of its order in
time), because the two sitters on January 29 and April 9,
1918, respectively, were mother and daughter, and the
ostensible communicator was the same man, son to one
sitter and brother to the other. It is therefore of interest
to compare Feda's statements on each occasion. Nothing
78 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
was said to Mrs. Leonard to indicate any connexion
between the two sitters, and there is an interval of over
two months between them. It will be seen that the two
descriptions are generally speaking consistent. There is a
slight discrepancy in regard to the shape of the eyebrows,
and in the sitting of April 9, 1918, the words given on
January 29, 1918, in reference to the lips
—" not very
full "—are omitted. There is, however, no indication of
the marked fvillness of the underlip to which the sitter of
January 29, 1918, refers. Below (see p. 130) I give
further extracts from these two sittings to indicate other
points of connexion between them.
Extract from sitting of April 9, 1918.
Feda. {Sotto voce. Yes. I'm coming. Want to speak to
her. Wait a minute.) Good morning. Give Feda
your hand. There's a spirit here of a man rather
young. He looked at you. He thought some one
else might be here as well. He's tried to com-
municate before, been to Feda before. He wants
Feda to describe him. He's on the tall side, straight,
well-built, good shoulders, not fat, well-proportioned.
He's above medium in height but not in breadth.
His face is not round, it's a httle strong round the
jaw, it's too long to be called round. Good features,
shows the bridge a little of the nose—the nose about
medium length, the tip round, a little full—the mouth
medium size, not small, the lips a little curved—the
chin rounded—the eyebrows well-marked, rather
straight, brown—the forehead square, straight, good-
shaped—the hair brown, cutted short, even on the
top it's pretty .short—he never wore it long, but he
cut it even shorter towards the end of his earth life.
He brushes it up away from his forehead.
Extract from sitting of January 31, 1918.
Feda. There's several people on the other side trjdng to get
through. A man-sijirit first. Feda thinks he looks
Lxxxn.j Description of Persoyial Appearance. 79
about as old as you [the sitter]. He's rather tall,
not fat, about medium, taller than medium in height ;
the shoulders broad, not a fat body, a fine -looking
face—good chin, a little square—not a long square,
a rounded squareness—rounded cheeks. They got a
little straighter before he passed over. The mouth is
about medium, the underlip a little bit fuller than
the top—not a large, full mouth, but the underlip a
little fuller—the nose shows the bridge a bit —a good
shape—a little bit on the big side—not broad at the
bridge, but broader at the base—the eyebrows a
darkish brown, straight shaped ; a fine forehead—the
hair, short, brushed back—shows the temples rather
plainly ; the head broadens a little at the temples,
it's well-developed.
Comment by the sitter.
This description seemed to me an excellent one of
C. J., a friend killed early in the war. But that he
should ap23ear as a communicator was unexpected and
puzzling, as, though I was very fond both of him and his
wife, I was not one of their oldest or most intimate
friends, and none of the statements made applied to me,
nor did I know if there was any truth in them.
It is of some interest that the description on this
occasion was sufficiently distinctive to recall C. J. at once
to the sitter's mind, although she was not expecting him
to appear as a communicator. Some further statements
were made which were applicable to C. J. (see below,
p. 98 and p. 124), but they were not sufficiently definite
to make identification certain.
Extract from sitting of February 1, 1918.
Feda. Now the younger man who comes is tall, above medium
height, on the tall side in height. He's pretty broad
shouldered, his moustache is brownish, not very long,
it's not one of those what comes dowTi. it's cutted
to the sides of his mouth. His mouth is about
80 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
medium size, or a bit larger, and his lips are a bit
full. His face might be a bit broad, but it's not
fat, so it looks about medium. His nose is not
quite straight, 'cos it does show the bridge a little,
; then it goes straight, and it's broader at the bottom
part. His eyebrows are darkish brown, pretty well
marked, rather straight, and sloping down a bit at the
ends. He has a good shaped forehead, his hair is
straight Feda thinks, not curly, and it's cutted very
short. It's darkish brown, and it's brushed away
from his forehead. This gentleman has passed on,
jjassed over.
{Later in the same sitting.) Now Feda wants to tell
you that in the spirit world with him he has quite
a young man, like a boy, who Feda thinks passed
over before him. He looks about eighteen to Feda,
not more, rather tall and rather slight in build, but
well proportioned and builted with it. He has
rather a oval face, it's not thin and it's a nice
shape, his mouth is medium size, the nose is straight
and he has a nice shaped chin and it's round, not
pointed, though the face is oval. The eyebrows is
well marked and a little arched, they looks to
Feda to be brown, on the dark side, but his com-
plexion isn't dark, he has a nice pink colour in
his cheeks and a clear skin. His hair is dark
brown, and cutted rather short; it grows rather
thickly and has got a shade on it of a lighter
colour.
The sitter notes in regard to these two descriptions that
they may refer to two near relatives killed in the war,
hnt the descriptions do not appear to have struck her as
strikingly good.
Extract frow, sitting of February 7, 1918.
Feda. Well, he wants to come, a young man, he's with an
older man and a lady as well, but the young man
;r
' wants to be described. He's on the tall side, not
Lxxxn.] Description of Personal Appearance. 81
fat, builted a bit on the slim side, but well set up.
He's got a nice face, a clear skin on the fair side,
a little colour in his cheeks but not much, his cliin
is round; mouth medium size, lij^s not too full, but
well shaped, the lower part of his face is well shaped.
His face seems to be toward oval, the eyes blue or
bluey gray, his nose shows the bridge a very little,
and is medium length, it broadens from the tip to
the nostril. His eyebrows are a little arched, and
his forehead is a good shape, not quite square, he
has brown hair cut rather short at the sides and
back, but a little longer on top ;
and, where it's
growing across the forehead it just comes up a bit
as if he brushed it back. {8. v. Wait a minute now.)
There's a photograph taken like what Feda's de-
scribing him. He's got a very frank expression, he
had a way of looking straight at people before he
would answer them, there's a frank look about his
face.
Comment by the sitter.
The description is not very good. There are several
photographs which might be referred to.
He [sitter's son] was about medium height, 5 ft. 9 in.,
very 6;-oa(i-shouldered, could not therefore be called slim.
He would be called on the fair side. He had a generous
curved mouth, sensitive, free from any suggestion of
sensuality, though the lips were rather full. Chin more
square than round and with a deeply marked dimple.
Eyes a grey-green hazel, nose straight and rather full,
though not wide at the tip. The rest of the description
will pass.
Extract from sitting of February 14, 1918.
Peda. Feda sees quite a young man ... A nice boyish face,
rather round, a merry looking face, a fresh com-
plexion—round cliin—the mouth medium, curved a
little. You know the part between the nose and
mouth, the groove between ? He'd got that very
plain. It made his mouth a cupid-bow shape. The
82 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
nose is rather straight, shows the bone a little bit,
the tip rounded, a little bit broader from the tip to
the nostril. The eyebrows brown, not black, arched
—the forehead a good shape, very good, browny hair,
cut very short—he does it away from his forehead,
brushed across and back—it shows the forehead
plainly. He passed over rather quickly.
The sitter notes that she is unable to identify this
young man at all.
Extract from sittmg of February 25, 1918.
Feda. There's a young man, a spirit, trying to show himself,
but he drifts away again. He's tall, well-built too
—
well-built shoulders—a fine-looking form. His face
—
wait a minute, not oval and not round—a little too
square at the jaw to be called round—the mouth a
bit big—well formed lips—strong teeth—when he
smiled he showed them—the nose shows the bridge
a bit, rather straight, broadens at the tip, not a
long, pointed nose, medium length—the eyebrows not
quite regular, very little arched, straight, sweeping
out a little at the edge—can't see his eyes—the
forehead squarish—brown hair, short at the sides, bit
longer at the top, brushed back.
Comment by the sitter.
The description of the young man " would easily fit
my brother, aged 44, who was killed in the war. The
build is right ;
shape of face is right ;
lips, teeth and
smile right. Eyebrows more or less right, though I do
not think I should have called them ''not quite regular" ;
forehead right, hair, colour right, otherwise not very
accurate ; his hair was always short and scanty at the
temples; this might be called "brushed back" perhaps.
Extract from sitting of March 11. 1918.
Feda. {S.v. And, yes, wait a minute, a young man who
passed over.) A young man who passed over, and
that lady was awful pleased to see him. A young
/
Lxxxii.] Description of Personal Appearance. '
83
man of slim build, not terribly thin, but slim. He's
got a fine face, towards the oval in shape, his nose
shows the bridge a little bit, but it would be
straight but for that ; he's got a mouth wha.t has
lips would be a little curved, but he holds them
straight and firmly. His chin is a bit too broad to
make his face a pure oval. (S.v. Don't like very
oval faces !) His hair is brown and cut very short,
and Feda thinks it might be a bit wavy, it sticks
up a bit here, (Feda makes a gesture of brushing
back the hair on top of the head) ; he's got a nice,
frank, open look about his face ; he looks people
straight in the face in a kind, straight way, when
talking to them. He's got a sensitive face here,
(Feda touches the lower portion of the medium's face)
he kept it in good control, but Feda feels it was
sensitive.
According to a note by the sitter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
the description might apply to a nephew killed in the war,
but is not strikingly good ; his face, she says, was " dis-
tinctly not oval."
Extract from sitting of March 14, 1918.
Feda. A sj)irit of gentleman, youngish man, rather tall, well-
builted, on taller side, nice shaped face, squarish at
chin, the mouth firm, not small ; features good
shape, nose shows bridge, eyes a little on dark side
but can't see shade exactly ;
eyebrows dark brown,
arched ; hair dark bro^vn cutted short, doesn't look
curly.
Comment by the sitter.
Not a definite description ;
my son's eyes were his most
striking feature and his hair was very curly ; otherwise it
is sufficiently near.
Extract from sitting of March 18, 1918.
Feda. There's a spirit coming, a young man, keeps on coming
forward. He's been wanting to come for a long
84 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
~
. time. He's young, on the taller side, medium build
holds himself quite well, rather straight, not stout,
not fat, on the thin side. Nice shaped face, oval
rather than round. Chin not pointed, round. Good
•
features. Nose, bridge showing, then coming straight \
down, narrow at the bridge and then broadens to
the tip. Can't see eyes yet. Eyebrows straight, a
little arched, outer part dark brown—not black.
Forehead good, not prominent, medium. Good shaped
intelligent face. Hair brown, short at the back and
sides, longer at the top, brushed back. (S.v. wait a
minute.) Nice skin, pale, but Feda don't think he
was pale on the earth plane.
|
The supposed communicator was not recognised by the i
sitter. i
Extract from sitting of March 21, 1918.
Feda. Two gentlemen is here, one Feda thinks she's seen
before. The first is a youngish gentleman, looks tall,
well-builted. A good shaped face, pretty strong, not
long, but not round, between the two—the chin and |
jaw is broad, his mouth about medium, not too full
—
about medium—a nice shaped underlip, a little fuller 1
than the upper—the nose shows the bridge a little
'
bit, then comes straight down, broader at the tip-
—
the eyebrows brown, well-marked, more straight than
arched. A good forehead, square-looking, the hair i
cut short, sticks uj) a little on top—he brushes it
j
across and back from his forehead.
Comment by the sitter.
I thought the description of the " youngish man "
[identified as sitter's brother] pretty good, except that he
was very fair and his eyes, his most striking feature, she
said she couldn't see.
Extract from sitting of April 15, 1918.
Feda. There is a young man here . . . He is not broad, but
well-built, but on the slender side ; a straight back,
I
Lxxxii.] Description of Presonal Appearance. 85
holds himself well upright, medium height, good
features, but on the long side ; nice mouth, very,
eyebrows dark brown, slightly arched, smooth skin,
clean shaven, but as though he had hair on the
upper lip. Hair dark brown, short at the back and
a piece stuck up, but it was smoothed back from the
front ;
good forehead, straight forehead, nose straight,
but with a slight bump on the bridge, rounded at
the tip, but well formed ; chin from the front firm,
but from the side not so noticeable, a very nice
chin.
Comment by the sitter.
My son was very tall, 6 ft. 3 in. in his boots, weight
13 stone, age 2\\ years when we last saw him in June
1916 ;
dark, nearly black eyes, brows black. These are
the differences ; otherwise correct, but as far as we know
he never grew a moustache, but always shaved. His hair
did not stick up at the crown. The description of the
nose is quite good.
2. Older Men.
Extract from sitting of January 17, 1918.
Feda. There's spirits on the other side. A gentleman middle-
aged and a young man too. These two are together.
Feda'U describe the elderly man. Been well set up
—
before he passed over he lost flesh a little—his face
falling a little at the cheeks—lost shape a little.
He's got hair over his mouth, not a small mouth,
a good shaped mouth—the under-lip a little further
[gesture indicates standing out beyond the upper lip]
—the nose a little Roman, showed the bridge, curved
a little, narrow at the top, broadening at the tip
—
eyes greyish colour—Feda can't see plainly—they're
a little deep-set—the eyebrows straight, sticks out in
the middle, bushy—the forehead good, the hair going
a little back at the front and sides—otherwise a good
head of hair—thicker on top, short at the back.
86 3Irs. W. H. Salter. [part
This description was recognised by the sitter as referring
to her father.
Extract from sitting of February 1, 1918
Feda. He's got a gentleman with him about sixty years old,
he's in the spirit world, and he passed over some
'
time ago. He is tall and he is on the fuller, broader
side. He got like that as he got older. He's got
some hair on his face, it's grey, but Feda can't see
it very 'stinctly ; he's got whiskers on some of the
lower part of his face. His nose is not a heavy
Roman nose, it's a medium Roman shape, he has
fine eyes rather deep set, his eyebrows are straight
and rather thick, they are well marked and the hairs
on them look thick and strong. He has a good
shaped forehead, broad and high too ; his hair is
longer at the sides than the young man wears his,
but at the top he hasn't much hair ; at one time he
used to comb some of the side part over, but before
he passed over he didn't even bother to do that it
got so thin ; he had been very upright, but before
he passed on he got into the habit of letting his
shoulders go a bit.
[Later in the same sitting.] He has with him a
quite old gentleman with a long full beard, not a
pointed beard . . . The other one hasn't got a
beard, he's got a full grey moustache drooping over
his mouth, but this one has a full beard, Feda feels
they's connected, they's alike. His nose shows the
bridge a bit, it's a good shape ; the tip is round ;
not pointed. The hairs of his eyebrows are very
long in the middle, especially one of them. His
eyebrows are straight, they had been arched, but he
got into the way of drawing them down and his
eyes are rather twinkly, with a -good deal of expres-
sion. Feda can just see his mouth and the under
lip looks a bit full.
Lxxxii.] Description of Personal Appearance. 87
Comment by the sitter.
{Referring to the first description.] This might be any
old man, possibly my uncle G. or my grandfather, both
of whom bore a remarkable family likeness to my father.
[Referring to the second description.] A good likeness of
my father.
Extracts from sitting of February 14, 1918.
Feda. There's two spirits. Feda'll try to describe the older
gentleman. He's rather tall—well-built—a fine-looking
man—got a- little stoop before he passed over. He's
got hair on his face round the lower part—the mouth
- is about medium—the lower lip a little full—more as
he got older—a good shaped nose, shows the bridge
a little—not a big Roman nose, but showing the
bridge a little—the eyes shaded a bit by the eye-
brows—they were sticking out a bit as he got older
—
a little line between the eyes—rather keen eyes,
inteUigent—a good forehead ; the hair getting thin,
back from the forehead—at the sides the hair is a
tiny bit longer than young men wear it now. . . .
He's often been to you before. Feda thinks this
gentleman was connected with you. He"s bringing
another gentleman with him, like a clergyman, rather
dark hair, but as if it had turned grey before he
passed over—dark eyebrows, dark eyes—striking
•
features—rather pale—a dark paleness—a striking-
looking man. Rather nervous, no, a quickly moving
face. Feda don't think he's related to you.
SiTTEE. Can you see his hands ?
Feda. Can't see them now. [There then followed some state-
ments, omitted here, concerning the clergyman's
character and activities. These statements were said
by the sitter to be applicable.]
Feda. Feda see'd one hand—rather bony knuckles—they
showed up. The fingers are bent or something
—
Feda couldn't see all the fingers. The hands is
'
knobbly—the joints is swelled. They're not pretty
88 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
hands. His knees was like that too. You didn't
see them. If you see any one that saw them,
they'd be able to tell you that. His Imee-joints look
like two—specially the right one—hke in two bumps
—
Hke a bump and then another bump and then the
leg below the knee is not quite straight. Feda gets
Hke an inflammation, an ache in his joints and a
stiffness—a great deal in his hands, because he's
rubbing them.
Later in the sitting the following passage occurred :
Sitter. My own father, do you see him 1
Feda. Feda thinks he"s coming up now. '
He's not as tall as
the other man, not very tall, broad built, not fat.
Feda can't see the lower part of the face, but he's
got a well-developed forehead—the hair rather white-
looking, growing uneven at the sides—the eyebrows
. a bit bushy—the eyes deep-set—they got more deep-
set and faded, as he got older. Good features, a
good nose, coming out at the bridge a bit and then
straight down—the cheek-bones a little prominent.
Feda can't see the lower part distinctly—rather a
good shaped mouth, the mouth rather straight.
Of the three descriptions quoted above, the sitter takes
the first and the third to be descriptions of her father,
the later description being in her opinion the better of
the two. It will be observed that this description was
given in reply to a direct question, and Feda does not
seem to realise that she is now describing a spirit who
has already appeared and been described earlier (if the
sitter's supposition is correct). The second description,
that of the dark clergyman, is said by the sitter to apply
very well to a friend of hers, a connection by marriage.
In reply to the sitter's question as to whether the clergy-
man's hands could be seen, Feda at first says that she
cannot see them, but a little later, apparently still with
reference to the clergyman, she describes a hand crippled
by rheumatism. There would appear to be some con-
fusion at this point. The clergyman's hands, the sitter
Lxxxn.] Description of Personal Appearance. 89
notes, were remarkably beautiful, but her father's hands
were, during the latter part of his life, crippled b}^ rheu-
matism and he had a trick of rubbing them. In so far
as Feda's remarks are veridical, they appear to indicate
that she gets her impressions in a fragmentary way. She
could hardly fit one man's hands to another man's body
if she saw the two men standing whole and distinct
before her.
Extract from sitting of March 4, 1918.
FedA. A spirit of a gentleman is with them, an oldish gentle-
man, rather broad, a little on the fat side ; a grey
beard and moustache ; the nose a little bit towards
Roman, the eyes a bit dark, deep-set, the eye-brows
look bushy ; the hair's straight and long, the hair
sticks out at the sides—rather bald on top. There's
a photo on the earth-plane shows him like Feda
says, hair at the sides and back, not on top. A
fine-looking broad forehead.
This description was not recognised by the sitter.
Extract from sitting of March 11, 1918.
Feda. There's a gentleman standing beside you. Can you
hear Feda ? He's not a young gentleman, a old
gentleman, and he looks to Feda as though he had
been a well-builted man, but towards the end of his
life he let his shoulders stoop a bit and dragged his
feet a bit slow, before he passed over. He's got
some grey hair on his face, so's you can't tell what
shape his chin is. His nose shows the bridge, it
isn't broad at the bridge, but it broadens a bit to
the nostrils. His eyes look to Feda rather deep set
and so it's difficult to tell the colour, perhaps he
will open them later more. He's got rather pro-
minent eyebrows, more straight than arched, they
sticks out in the middle more, they has long hairs in
the middle, like coarser hair, and they sticks out
90 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
more on the left eyebrow than on the other. The
eyes are deep set, not prominent. He has a fine-
builted forehead, at the eyebrows it comes out a bit
prominent, and here too, (Feda indicates above the
temples) He hadn't got very much hair on top of
his head, it had got thin, he has got it now though.
Here at the sides, (Feda touches the side of the
medium's head) it Avas a bit longer than is usual
now ; it sticks out a bit above the ears and at the
back of the ears. He's got good shaped ears, not
small ones, and—Feda has to notice everything
—
Feda don'no if it's both ears, that's not quite flat
to his head. They comes out just a little bit, not
badly like Englishes does.
The sitter on this occasion was Mrs. Sidgwick, whose
identity was known at the time to Mrs. Leonard. Con-
cerning the above description, Mrs. Sidgwick comments
thus :
The description of the old gentleman fits fairly well to
my husband as shown, e.g. in the portrait at the S.P.R.
rooms. The left eyebrow, as compared to the right
eyebrow, was generally slightly raised next to the nose,
owing to a scar. The hair was no doubt thinner than it
had been on the top of his head, but he was not bald.
He did not stoop or drag his feet, unless it may have
been in extreme weakness at the end. He was only 62
when he died, hardly so old a gentleman as is suggested.
Mrs. Leonard had not visited the S.P.R. rooms at the
time of this sitting and could not therefore have seen the
portrait of Dr. Sidgwick which hangs there, but it may
well be that she had at some time seen his portrait
elsewhere, though she is not aware of having done so.
Extract from sitting of March 14, 1918.
Feda. Can you remember a gentleman in your family with a
beard and moustache, nose prominent at the bridges
rather a decided nose, eyes a little deep set, eyebrow,
Lxxxn.j Description of Personal Appearance. 91
bushy, fine broad forehead, not much hair on the top
of his head, grey at the sides and back, sticks out a
bit above his ears. Been a fine looking man but
he got a little stooped. He comes up with the lady,
as though he was with her. It seems as if he'd a
lot of colds or bad condition of chest and throat.
Comment by the sitter.
I had an uncle who died about thirty-five years ago of
consumption to whom this might apply.
Extract from sitting of March 18, 1918.
Feda. a gentleman, grey beard, darkish in colour, grey beard,
grey moustache, eyes deep set, brows prominent,
bushy, sticking out. Roman nose, thin cheek bones,
flesh fell from them. Bald, hair on sides, not on
top, makes forehead rather high. Towards the end
stooped forward, but Feda thinks he was tall and
well setted up.
This description was not recognised by the sitter.
3. Women.
Extract from sitting of January 17, 1918.
Feda. A lady—Feda can see her. These two passed over
before the young man. She's about medium height
—
got a look of her figure having broadened—the face
not full—sunk a little at the sides—chin a little
fallen—the mouth not full—lips not full—blue or
bluey grey eyes, not distinct in colour—the nose
straight—-the eyebrows brown, well-marked—the hair
grey—back from the ears and up, done towards the
crown of the head—done rather plainly back, parted
or else it parts naturally.
This description was recognised by the sitter as referring
to an aunt of hers. The statement that she had " passed
92 Mrs. W. H. Salter. |. [part
over before the young man," identified as the sitter's son,
was correct.
Extract from sitting of January 28, 1918.
Feda. He's got a lady with him in tlie spirit world who
passed over before him. She's not big, an elderly
lady about medium height, rather stout in build—the
face full—the chin twice here [indicates double chin]
—
a little full—the mouth about medium—the nose
straight at the bridge—the eyes greyish—the eyebrows
darkish brown—grey hair, brushed back, at the crown
of her head—full altogether in build—a very kind
face. She passed over some time before him ; she's
a relation once removed, he says, as though some one
else would come in between.
This description was not recognised by the sitter.
Extract from sitting of February 1, 1918.
Feda. He's got a lady with him about medium build, she has
a nice face, it's gone rather thin at the sides and
it's pale. She has nice features, her hair is grey,
and done back rather plainly. She wears black, like
a silky stuff and black. She had got a dress what
is the one she has on now, with a figured pattern on
it, rather old fashioned. She's been in the sj)irit
world some time, and she's got a very sweet face,
she's between colours, and Feda thinks she was
rather pale. She had been getting very weak before
she passed over, here. (Feda makes a gesture which
the recorder cannot see.)
Recorder. Where ?
Sitter. Her heart.
Comment by the sitter.
My mother had a dress she was very fond of which
answers to this description. I have her portrait in which
she has it on. She was very deficate and suffered from
her heart.
LXXXII.] Description of Personal Appearance. 93
Extract from sitting of March 14, 1918.
Feda. There's a lady comes to you, related to you, a olderly
lady, about medium height, yes. She'd had a nice
figure, but lost flesh rather quickly towards the end
of her earth life, lost the shape of her face, the nose
a little bit prominent, lips a little full, the chin
round, medium size, face fallen in a little at the
sides. Eyes on the dark side, hair gone grey, but
would have been darkish brown, eyebrows dark,
arched, skin sallow looking towards the end of her
earth life. Builds up a letter E, builds it up
between you, a leter E. Feda not sure what it
means. Something connecting you and her. This
lady was hailing, no. ailing, in health for a good
time before she passed over. Feda get a tired
feeling. Towards the end she used to sit forward,
dropping a little. She was a. good lady when she
was here. She was a little irritable, or fanciful
sometimes, but Feda thinks it was because of her
health. She hadn't always lived in London. Spent
a good part of her life quite away. She came from
a family quite a long way from London, right across
the country, right across England—like going to the
other coast. She sprung from a family that came
from there. Some people she's related to lived at a
place called D, a hilly place, not like here. Feda
thinks this lady's related to you.
Comment by the sitter.
This describes my mother fairly well, but she always
lived in London or its environs. Her father however
came from Cumberland.
Extracts from sitting of March 18, 1918.
I.
Feda. He's got a lady in the spirit world, lady older, much
older. {S.v. Wait a minute.) Lady more middle
age, past middle age, not tall, medium height. (S.v.
94 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Wait a minute.) Nice figure, lost flesh a little
towards the end of her earth life. Face falling in.
Chin small. Mouth medium size. Got to droop at
the corner [Feda felt her face and pulled down the
corners of her mouth]. Nose rather straight. Arched
'eyebrows, eyes on the dark side, perhaps grey. Hair
brown, done it plainly, went back each side of the
head, coiled at top part of head.
Later in the sitting :
II.
Feda. She thinks you ought to remember some one, a lady,
elderlj', but fuller in build, fuller face, rather spreaded
out, full in the figure, much stouter. These two a
great deal together in the spirit world. Stouter one
very tidy about the dress. She wore a large brooch,
old fashioned. {S.v. Wait a minute.) Didn't always
wear it when she was here {s.v. but she had it in her
possession and she's been seen to wear it) but thinks
it has gone into some one's possession in the family.
It's not a thing most people would like to wear.
Rather large heavy brooch. Some sort of picture or
design on the front part. Dressed in black, not
blouse and skirt, but like a proper dress. .
Again later :
III.
SiTTEE. Is my daughter possible to communicate with ?
Feda. There's a spirit here Feda can't see. . . . She's trying
to build up now. She seems not big, not broad, to
Feda. {S.v. Wait a minute. Wait a minute.) Not
builded up as well as others, difficult to build. Not
very broad, naturally well shaped girl, naturally
bright and cheerful. {S.v. Wait a minute. Now.)
Thin figure. Yes got thin frame, not well-covered.
Face towards oval rather than round. Face slopes
towards chin, chin not full, medium. Cheeks, slope
towards it. Mouth about medium size, lips not full,
upper being thinner. On the pale side in colour.
Lxxxn.] Description of Personal Appearance. 95
Nose, small bridge, straight down broadening between
the tip and the nostrils. Eyebrows brown and a
little arched. Complexion medium, rather clear, pale.
Hair brown. {S.v. What ! she done it different
towards the end 1) Dunno. {S.v. Patting her hair.
Done different to what she would have it done.)
Comment by the sitter.
I. This lady evidently refers to my mother.
II. The elderly stouter lady may be . . . the mother of
my mother's greatest friend . . . The description tallies
with the four photographs I have since seen, but I can
get no information about the brooch. She always wore
black.
III. As a description of my daughter this is perfect.
Instead of having her hair loose for the last nine months
of her life, she wore it in a plait in accordance with the
regulations of the girl-guides.^
Extract from sitting of March 21, 1918.
FedA. There's an elderly lady with him.
SiTTEE. Who is it 1
F. She's rather under medium height, not big in build, a
bit spreaded out, makes her look broader, her face
rounded, lost shape a bit, the chin fallen in a little,
a bit pale. The hair is plain back from the forehead,
twisted on the top of the head—the hair grey.
He hasn't got much power left to tell about the lady.
She was there before him, she's been very kind to
him. She was there when he woke up. She came
the first time he came to see you after he passed
over.
The description was not recognised by the sitter.
* Cf. above, p. 12, No further evidence of identity was given in
regard to the two elderly ladies.
96 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Extract from sitting of A])ril 15, 1918.
Feda. He has an elderly lady with him who looks after him ;
rather dark, rather thin ;
[she was] not well but
[had] plenty of energy and will power. She is
related and very kind to him. Medium height,
cheeks pale, hair plainly combed back, coiled at back
[indicates position] ; a good woman, orthodox in
behef. She did not beheve in spirituahsm on the
earth-plane.
The sitter notes that this is a good description of his
mother, the communicator's grandmother.
4. Persons still alive.
Extract from sitting of January 15, 1918.
Feda. He goes to see a lady on the earth jilane, an elderly
lady with grey hair—medium build, bright eyes,
quick to understand. Eyebrows a little arched, well-
^
marked, not thick, the chin not large, but well-
shaped, the nose not broad, straight, shows the
bridge a little. It's some one he goes to see.
This description was not recognised by the sitter.
Extract from sitting of January 19, 1918.
Feda. There's a young lady he goes to on the eafth plane
—
about his own age or a bit younger—well-built
—
rounded.
SiTTEE. PlumjD ?
F. Yes, got a face would be to the oval, but the cheeks
are a bit too round—nice features—bib on the dark
side—nice skin.
S. Has she got much colour ?
F. Got a bit in the cheeks, not all over the face. .
3 Her eyes ? What colour are they ? • : .•
LXXXII.] Description of Personal Appearance. 97
F. Can't see distinctly. Her hair's brown—rather nice^
—
not light, but warm-looking—looks pretty thick—she
seems to do it sideways—drawn a bit to the side
—
not much over the face—a bit back—looks glossy, as
if she kept it glossy—her eyes are brownish—the
'
eyebrows are dark brown, rather arched in the
middle—good-shaped nose, rather straight—looks
pretty strong, as if she could move about.
S. Ask her name, I can't tell who it is.
F. Some one he knows—he knows two other people con-
nected with her—she doesn't live at C she lives
in a town—it's at a big town he goes to see her
—
he met her through some other people—seemed as if
he liked her—he thought she was like
—
S. They used to play golf and tennis together ?
F. Yes, that's right.
S. But you made a mistake, she's got very blue eyes.
F. Feda couldn't see them plainly.
As the above extract indicates, the description was
taken by the sitter to refer to a girl the communicator
i[sitter's son] had known well when alive. But the colour
of the eyes was wrongly given (see above, p. 15).
Extract from sitting of January 26, 1918.
Feda. [To communicator.] Wait a minute, that's not a
young lady you're showing Feda now. It seems to
Feda as if one of the people he goes to see there is
middle aged, a little past middle aged, she would be
pleased, he says, if you called her middle aged.
She's not exactly stout, but she's a bit spreaded, her
face is round and a nice shape, not much colour, a
little in the cheeks but not much. Her hair is grey
or going grey, it is grey, she does it back off her
ears coiled on top of her head. It looks tidy
looking, in front it's a little bit raised ; it's just a
little puffed on top in front, and it's smoother at the
.sides. {S.v. Puts on something white ?) He wants
G
98 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
• - to say that she sometimes wears something white on
.
'
- the front of her, it's something special.
Comment by the sitter.
Evidently his [communicator's] mother. I understand
she wears a long lace jabot, or tie, in the evenings on
special occasions.
Extract from sitting of January 31, 1918.
Feda. He's trying to describe a lady he goes to see with O
—
an older lady—older than you, a lot—not as tall
—
not very big in build—only about medium—not dark,
nor fair, between colours—rather pale—the face thin
at the sides, rather pinched looking—the mouth not
full—a small chin, rounded, not fat—a straight nose
—
eyes grejdsh—the hair faded, gone grejdsh—does it a
bit full [F. indicates the top of the head]—rather
back from the ears. This is some one on the earth
plane—some one he and 0 go to see.
Comment by the sitter.
This is a good description of Mrs. J. [the wife of the
man whom the sitter thought to be communicating (see
above, p. 78)], for whom Feda had apparently taken me
from the beginning of the sitting. She was mistaken in
thinking her much older than I am, though I think there
is a difference of some years. Feda herself seemed to
have doubts, for she remarked sotto voce, touching me
d,nxiously : ''Is she young ? Yes " ; and having endowed
me with a youth I fear I cannot claim, proceeded con-
fidently. Mrs. Salter, who has seen Mrs. J., thought the
description good.
Lxxxii.] Conditions Associated with Communicator's Death. 99
§ II. Circumstances and Physical Conditions Associated
WITH A Communicator's Death.
1. Young Men.
Extract from sitting of January 15, 1918.
Feda. He passed over suddenly. There was a condition
affecting the top part, the head, and a chokiness in
the throat. Feda thinks he was unconscious when
he passed over. He keeps saying : "I didn't suffer."
Comment by the sitter.
He [the communicator, sitter's husband] was unconscious
some short time before he passed over. He died of
wounds received on September 26—on September 28 [1917].
So far as I know he was not wounded in the head, but he
had a chest wound. The vital wound was an abdominal
penetrating one.
Extract from sitting of January 17, 1918.
Feda. That young man—the lady's been looking after him.
Feda's sure he passed on suddenly. Something made
him unconscious—a good thing that because it didn't
hurt him—he passed over quickly. Feda feels he'd
been jumping or running just before he passed over
—
He's telling Feda this because he thinks you'll have
heard of this—running forward fast—cumbered up
with something. Then he slipped forward on his
face. The ground was uneven, very uneven—like a
mound, then something going in like a hole. He
didn't feel frightened. He shows Feda what looks
like wires—something he'd been holding just before
he passed over. " She ought to know about that
"
he says. . . .
You didn't seem to have particulars. He kept
trying to shout at you that he hadn't suffered. He
100 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
thought you might think he'd been left lying there
and wanted to drink or something.
Do you know if he was hurt in the head ?
Sitter. No, the lungs.
Feda. He didn't feel it in the lungs. No, no, he shakes his
head. Perhaps a doctor could tell you it would
affect his head in that way. " I felt choky in the
throat," he says. He must have lost consciousness.
Something more about his head. He's very per-
sistent. He won't go away. He keeps saying :
" Don't let it rest at that." He's tapping his head
near the ear.
It will be seen from the above extract that the position
of the fatal wound is not correctly given ; but Feda, as
often happens, tries to explain away the mistake. The
sitter states that her son, whom she identifies as the
communicator, died in hospital, whereas various expres-
sions used in the above extract strongly suggest that he
died on the battlefield. ,
Extract from sitting of January 26, 1918.
Feda. Feda can feel his passing over conditions, he passed
quicldy, and was unconscious rather quick ; Feda's
not sure that he—wait a bit, Feda's not sure that
he was killed intant-taneously, but it was as good as
that to him, as he felt nothing. Feda gets a full
feeling in the head, but most of them gets that, and
there's a feeling in the chest as though the breath
went quickly from the body, it doesn't hurt. Feda
feels that he passed very quickly and can't remember
his passing conditions, though he gives them to Feda.
Comment by the sitter.
He [the communicator] was only slightly wounded, but
the wound turned septic through neglect, necessitating re-
moval of his left arm. He died the following day after
the amputation.
Lxxxn.] Conditions Associated with Communicator's Death. 101
Extract from sitting of January 29, 1918.
Feda. He passed over suddenly—a peculiar feeling right at the
top of the head—not a pain^—like neuralgia when the
pain goes and leaves a dull pain. He had it for
about half a minute, then he went unconscious. He's
tapping the lower part of his body, but that wasn't
important. But what he felt most was in his head.
He felt something lower down.
Comment by the sitter.
This is quite accurate. He [the communicator] was
wounded in the arm and side (which Feda touched when
she said he was tapping himself lower down) ; an attempt
was made to move him to a place of safety and on the
way he was shot through the head and killed instan-
taneously.
Extract from sitting of January 31, 1918.
Feda. Feda gets a sudden weakness with this gentleman. His
passing over was quick—a sudden collapse—all the
power giving out. He hadn't been well for some
time—been rather a struggle to keep uj). When he
slipped out, he went pretty quick. He was worried
when he first passed over—money matters, business
for some one on the earth plane. He says he knows
somebody Feda knows and he tried to get a message
through before. He tried to get a message through
to you. He thinks he has. He got through another
lady too. When he comes close, Feda feels a choky
feehng in the throat. Feda thinks he felt that when
. he passed over. That was all he felt—then he was
unconscious when he passed over ;
very choky, then
a terrible weak feeling in the body. He just seemed
to fall back and collapse.
Comment by the sitter.
He [the communicator] was shot through the head by a
sniper in the trenches.
102 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Extract from sitting of February 1, 1918.
Feda. This one passed over suddenly, (s.v. a head condition ?)
Yes, something to do with his head ; before that he'd
had something to do with a very low down part,
the side of his stomach or his thigh. (Feda touches
the medium's groin on the right side.) But that
wasn't what he passed over with, he passed over
with a strange feeling in the head.
i
Comment by the sitter.
[The communicator] was wounded in the lungs at the
beginning of the war, recovered, went out again, and was
killed instantaneously shortly afterwards.
Extract from sitting of February 7, 1918.
Feda. His passing was painless, he was afraid you would hear
to the contrary and say " oh dear ! I hope he didn't
suffer," he thinks now you know that he didn't.
SiTTEK. That's right.
F. He's tried to impress that on you since he jDassed.
SiTTEE. Yes, he has.
F. He remembers feeling faintness, and a stunned feeling,
he must have lost consciousness quickly.
Comment by the sitter.
[The communicator] was killed by a high explosive shell
which pitched about 6 yards from him, while he was
controlling the fire of his guns. He became unconscious
at once, so I am assured, and died in twenty minutes
without recovering consciousness. He was wounded in the
left side of the head and the stomach, and both wounds
were fatal.
Extract from sitting of February 14, 1918.
Feda. Feda thinks he passed over quickly—like a collapsed
feeling—no pain with it. A feeling of not being able
to breathe—a choky feeling and a peculiar weak
Lxxxii.] Conditions Associated ivith Communicators' Death. 103
feeling through the body, as if the breath had left
very quickly—no time to feel pain. ...
He must have passed over quickly, very quickly.
{S.v. He'd been on land before he passed over, not
long before. He seemed to go back on the boat
after he called at one place.) He seemed to have
called at one place. He was all right there, but he
passed over soon after.
SiTTEE. In the south ?
F. Oh yes, in the south. Feda wonders if it was very
warm there. Feda feels like going like that [breathes
. deeply]—like he hadn't been able to breathe properly.
It feels very hot. His forehead felt very hot soon
before he passed over, a feverish feeling, a weak
feeling inside, not long before he passed over.
A good deal of information was given concerning this
supposed communicator, but the sitter was quite unable
to identify him.
Extract from sitting of February 25, 1918.
Feda. (S.v. Did you pass over quickly ?) Yes, he says, he
passed over suddenly, didn't have much pain ; he
got into the spirit-world prettj' easily. He seems to
- think he passed over quick like that [slaps her hands
together]. But there's some one thought he didn't.
Feda thinks he was unconscious and didn't feel
anything. Something had happened to him before
he passed over—it was nothing, but he felt it more.
Comment by the sitter.
[The communicator] was at first reported " wounded and
missing," later killed." We heard after that a man
next him heard him call out: My God, I'm hit." His
body was found the next day, lying alone, shot through
the chest. My sister worried very much, as she imagined
him lying wounded and untended for hours in the desert.
(He was killed in Mesopotamia.) News came to hand
after that he must have died pretty quickly.
104 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Extracts from sitting of March 14, 1918.
FedA. He passed over quite suddenly . . . He was afraid at
first you wouldn't realise he'd passed over. You
didn't at first.
Comment by the sitter.
[The communicator] was declared missing for a month
before I heard he had been killed.
Extract from sitting of March 18, 1918.
Feda. Passed over quickly. Looks as if there was something
the matter with his head. Not pain, like a sudden,
quick, sensation. {S.v. wait a bit.) He didn't feel
pain when he passed over. He doesn't remember.
He did feel a sudden numbness in his head and
quick weakness took possession of his body.
The supposed communicator could not be identified.
Further extract from sitting of March 18, 1918.
Feda. Something came into her mouth like a pain, almost
choked her, she gasped and passed over. {S.v.
Something about your teeth, teeth ?) Can't get that
from her. {S.v. Or her mouth ?) Something
about her mouth or her teeth. Not anything to do
with when she passed over, earlier in illness, some-
thing that worried her, keeps on tapping her teeth.
I have quoted this as another instance in which a
correct impression may have been misinterpreted by Feda.
The symptoms of the supposed communicator's last illness
are not well described and she had no special trouble
with her teeth. The sitter, however, the communicator's
father, was by profession a dentist and his daughter, had
she lived, was to have qualified to be his partner.
Extracts from sitting of A]ml 15, 1918.
Feda. When he passed over he had lost consciousness and
when he came to he thought he was in a hospital
Lxxxil.] Conditions Associated with Communicator's Death. 105
but it was too beautiful for that. He suffered with
his head . . .
SiTTEE. Was the throat the cause of his passing over ?
Feda (quite decidedly). No, the head.
Sitter. Are you certain it was not the throat ? >
Feda. He had a bad throat a long time but it was the
head . . .
Sittek. What caused him to pass over ?
Feda. His head not well, but quite quickly as though he had
been hit on the right side. The throat not right,
but his head, bruised on the head and was uncon-
scious, no pain whatever.
Comment by the sitter.-
[The communicator] had suffered from a cough caused
by a bad throat and this finally caused him to pass
over. Death certificate states " Oedema Glottis,'' and he
died in hospital at the base in Salonika. An operation
was performed, but it was of no use.
2. Women and Older Men.
Extract from the sitting of January 29, 1918.
Feda. When [the communicator] passed over he was met by a
lady and gentleman. An elderly lady, about medium
height, or scarcely—not very big in build. Feda
thinks at one time she'd been a nice shape, but soon
before she passed over the flesh fell away. The
face had been round, but had fallen away. She'd
had a nice chin, but it had fallen. She"d been
pretty—had nice features. The mouth was a little
compressed—the eyes grey, as if they'd got a bit
faded, the eyebrows brown, arched—the hair had
been brown, but was fading, greying before she
passed over. She does it rather plainly, brushed
back up from the neck—more to the higher part of
the head—does it rather neat back from the forehead.
She wasn't well for a long time before she passed
106 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
over—a sort of internal weakness, and an awful
nervy state. Her Tierves were so bad, she used to
try to get the best of it, but she couldn't. She got
in an awful weak state. About two weeks before
she passed over there was a great change—she almost
collapsed. Up to that she'd been trying to keep
herself up. But she hadn't any strength left. Then
she floated out. She was tired of her physical body
—awful tired. Yet she didn't seem to want to go
at one time. After that two weeks she didn't care
what happened. She just floated out almost in
sleep. The worst part had been before. She'd been
weak and ailing for about two years. She'd had a
very severe illness about fifteen years before she
passed over. She seemed to get over it—to get
better. Then it seemed to get some condition of a
different nature, but what she'd had fifteen years
ago had weakened her system. She'd had some
worry about eight years before she passed over—she
was worried about some one—not illness—connected
with some one else. Not just a short worry. That
was the gentleman, Feda thinks. It seemed to cause
her a great worry, a mental worry. It wasn't a
thing she could help herself—she was tied hand and
foot—she felt herself powerless. She was naturally
rather energetic, liked to manage things—a kind
motherly person. This worry got on her nerves it
^ was undermining her constitution. She oughtn't to
have had that. It was nothing to do with her. It
had to do with a man. It wore her out.
Comm,ent by the sitter.
The lady referred to here is probably a cousin of mine
with whom I was very intimate. She died Avhen my
children were young ;
they were mutually devoted to one
another. [The alleged communicator was sitter's son.]
Her mental and physical sufferings before her death were
quite such as are described by Feda ; at the same time
she did not want to die and resisted with all the strength
of a strong will. Just near the end, worn out with
Lxxxn. Conditions Associated with Communicators Death. 107
physical suffering and weakness, she longed for release.
I don't remember her having a severe illness 15 years
before her death.
Extract from sitting of February 1, 1918.
Feda. He must have had strong views on Life and Religion ;
Feda don't know if he used to have a room with a
good many books in it ? Feda ssems to see a good
many books, he seems to study them a lot . . .
Wait a bit, a little while before he passed over he
got a nasty feeling of his chest, when he comes close
to Feda, Feda wants to clear her throat. (Feda does
so.) When he actually passed he M'ent very quickly,
he"d had this chokey feeling for some time before,
but Feda feels he hadn't much pain. Wait a
minute, there was a change in his condition about
four days before he passed over, you can ask some-
one.
The sitter identifies this communicator as her father.^
She states that " he was deeply religious. For the last
few years of his life he spent nearly the whole day in
his own room, reading." The description of physical
symptoms the sitter states to be correct. As to the
statement that there was a change four days before he
passed over," she says :
I think this was so. He was very ill for four months,
unconscious most of the time, but he passed away very
suddenly indeed.
Extract from sitting of February 14, 1918.
Feda. {S.v. Afraid of tumbling—wait a bit.) Do you know
if he was afraid of falling in the end part of his
life ?
SiTTEB. He was very tottery.
F. It must be that. Feda saw him on the stairs, cUnging
to the bannisters. And his hands seem not quite
1 Cf. p. 86 above.
108 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
steady. He'd try to put his hands in his pocket
and had to feel for it. But he'd had pretty good
health. Instead of getting ill in the ordinary way,
do you remember a change four or five days before
he passed over ?
Sitter. He wanted to live.
F. Yes, that kept him from going. He had strong will-
power, a wonderful vitality. . . . This tottery feeling
had gone on some time. Five days before he passed
over, there was a change—very weakening. But even
then bis will-power kept him up.
The sitter states that in regard to her father, with
whom she identifies the alleged communicator, it is correct
to say that there was " a change four or five days before
he passed over." A close similarity will be noticed
between what was said on this occasion and what was
said in the immediately preceding extract from the sitting
of February 1, 1918.
Extract from sitting of March 11, 1918,
Feda. Feda thinks this gentleman had not been well, he'd had
failing health, for—Feda thinks two or three years
before he passed over ; but he was not in bed he
says. {8.V. em—wait a minute, please.) He says
that though he had not been well he tried to make
the best of it and to take an interest in books and
things. He says just about ten days before he
passed over there was a distinct change in his
condition ;
you'll have to think it over, he felt it
before that, it was coming a few days before the ten
days, but it wouldn't have been noticeable to others
till the ten days. He says he kind of collapsed as
though he'd been holding on as long as possible.
(Feda clears her throat.) He gives Feda a bit of a
thick feeling in the throat, as though he had had it.
(S.v. What's that ? Is it your feet or your legs ?)
(Feda feels the medium's legs.) He used to have a
peculiar feeling in— Feda thinks it was his feet and
Lxxxii.] Conditions Associated, with Communicator's Death. 109
legs ; he didn't have to have a lot done for it, but
it was always there, they feels kind of cold, not a
proper circulation. Feda feels his blood was sluggish
'cos he couldn't take proper exercise. {S.v. Feda'll
tell her, well, don't forget.)
Comment by the sitter Mrs. Sidgwick.
My husband [the supposed communicator] died of cancer,
internal, nothing to do with throat or legs, and the
description of the illness is not good. He was known to
be seriously ill about four months before he died. There
was a distinct change for the worse about a fortnight
before the end, but before that he was known to be
dying.
*
Extract from sitting of March 12, 1918.
Feda. {S.v. Wait a bit, and there was a younger man, not
the one what came yesterday,^ one what had passed
over long ago.) He's [the communicator] met also a
young man that Feda feels must have been con-
nected with him, he is nothing to do with the one
what came yesterday, and he passed over quite
young and had to finish his development in the
spirit world. He must have been connected with
you, he must have passed over with intense—he says
intense twice—weakness. Feda feels like perspiration,
hands all wet and damp, Feda don't think that
young man was ever very strong on the earth plane,
it was a good thing perhaps he passed over, "cos he
never would have been strong, Feda gets his con-
ditions all cold, damp, face, head, neck and hands.
In regard to this statement the sitter says that it
might refer to a nephew of her husband, the supposed
communicator, who " died of a sort of decline,—increasing
weakness ; but he died a good many years after my
husband." If, then, the allusion is to this young man,
there is confusion in regard to the date of his death.
1 March 11, 1918, when the same sitter was present.
110 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
§ III. Descriptions of Articles said to have belonged
TO, OR been associated WITH A COMMUNICATOR.
Extract from the sitting of January 26, 1918.
Feda. [After reference to a place, said to be connected with
the communicator but not clearly identified.] He
says don't confound it with a road that he knew,
put this down carefully, a road that he had very
good reason to know, 4iut the other was a place.
He's got a very important motive Feda can feel
for talking of the road. {S. v. What is it ?
Something wrong with wheels ? Something wrong
with wheels.) What is it ? He's trying to show
Feda that before he passed over he'd been very
much interested in something on wheels. He had
given a hand to push along hard, something on
wheels, the ground was difficult to do it on, several
men helped. He was doing this not long before he
passed over. {S. v. Oh, wait a bit, it's some-
thing to do with a photograph ? Wait a minute.)
There's been a photograph of this thing on wheels,
and he's not quite sure if he was taken in it or not,
but any one who had the photograph would know it
Avas connected with him. He had been in one
j)hotograpli with this thing on wheels, but he's not
sure if he's in this one. It was taken out of doors,
but there's at the right hand side something what
would make you think it was a building or shed.
There was a building near. . . . And he's very
particular about that thing on wheels ; it had to go
quick, but it wanted a lot of pushing at first. Feda
thinks it would have more than two wheels, Feda
thinks four perhaps, 'cause there were men at each
wheel pushing, oh, he calls it " lugging it along."
Comment by the sitter.
I do not know whether this refers to something at the
front or to his life in Canada before he [the sitter's
LXXXiT.] Articles Associated with a Communicator. Ill
brother, killed in France] joined up. The enclosed photo-
graph was among his other photographs, but I do not
know if it is he or not. It is a heavy petrol-driven
" trolley," much used along railways which are under
construction, and doubtless used by him also.
The photograph mentioned by the sitter represents a
man lying full length under a " trolley which he is
apparently engaged in repairing. Only his legs are visible ;
hence the doubt as to his identity. The trolley has four
wheels and is proceeding along a railway track. There is
no building in the picture, as Feda suggests, but on the
right of the track (from the point of view of the photo-
graph) there is a thicket with a number of thin, close set,
tree trunks standing up like "
scaffolding poles against a
dark background ; these might at a cursory glance suggest
a building. The rest of the picture is occupied by the
track, the trolley, and a piece of open ground on the left
of the track.
Extract from sitting of January 28, 1918.
Feda. A photograph, a larger picture done from a smaller
one ; he wanted a smaller one done too, a little
tiny one, what you call a miniature. A larger one
has been done, like copying a small one into a large
one. Do you know the one thafs a head and
shoulders, almost straight, rather serious looking, not
an awful good one,—he's got no hat on—do you
know that one ?
Sitter. I know there is one like that.
F. He wants you to have a little one.
Comment by the sitter.
An excellent miniature of one of my brother's [the
communicator's] photographs—full face, head and shoulders
—was done for us shortly after his death, but I know of
no reproduction on a larger scale.
112 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Extract from sitting of January 28, 1918.
Feda. Do you know what's become of the watch on hi&
wrist ?
SiTTEK. Yes.
F. He wanted it given to some one to wear, but he hasn't
seen it. He wasn't sure where it was. He had
two—^it's the one he had on his wrist. It's a small
one, about the size of two shillings. A lady had it
for a time, Feda's not sure if she's got it now.
Comment by the sitter.
I am wearing one of my brother's [the communicator's]
watches, a gold wrist watch. My mother kept it for me
for about a couple of months, while I was in France last
autumn.
In view of the claim often made (and sometimes—-it
would seem—with justification) that communicators are
able to scent out, as it were, articles which have belonged
to them, it is worth noting that on this occasion the
communicator was apparently unaware of the location of
his wrist watch, although it was actually being worn, on
the sitter's wrist.
A little later on in the same sitting of January 28,
1918, Feda said :
Feda. {S.v. Decoration, before—don't know what he
means.) He's pleased about the decoration, Feda
don't think it's himself—since he's passed on. There's
two things he's wearing on the other side, something
here [indicates the chest], he would have worn it on
the earth plane, like a ribbon on his chest. He
ought to have had it here. There ought to have
been two things, on two occasions he did something
special.
Sitter. Yes.
F. He ought to have got two, but Feda thinks he only
got one. But it isn't that he's pleased about. He's
pleased about some one on the earth plane whose
Lxxxn.] Articles Associated with a Communicator. 113
name has been mentioned, some one he cares about
very much, a decoration ; this must have happened
lately, he's pleased about it.
Comment bij the sitter.
My brother was awarded the mihtary cross before he
was killed, about a month before ; and just before his
fatal wound he was recommended again and ahnost cer-
tainly would have had a bar to the M.C. had he lived.
His death stopped this, however, automatically.
The statement that someone about whom the communi-
cator cared very much had received a decoration, or been
mentioned, was not understood by the sitter. Possibly
Feda misinterpreted the impression she got that something
had happened, or might have been expected to happen
after the communicator died, the reference being to the
bar to the Military Cross which the communicator earned
but never actually received. Her statement on this
point however must be reckoned as unverified and probably
incorrect.
Extract from sitting of March 11, 1918.
Feda. When the older man was trying to tell about the
photograph—the young man says he's got one almost
,
hke it. (S.v. No 'taint all dark.) His is lighter
at the edges, 'cos the shadow part turns to light
at the edges.
Sitter. Is it vignetted ?
F. Yes, Feda will remember that, vignetted. (S.v.
Yours or the other gentleman's ?) The young man
thinks something has been done about his photograph,
since he passed over.
S. Yes ?
F. Like a co]3y made, and he seemed pleased about it.
One has been done from the other, and it seems to
Feda that that one has been a success ; one is much
larger than the other.
H
114 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Comment by the sitter Mrs. Sidgwich.
I think his [the supjjosed communicator's] photograph
has been successfully enlarged (I believe the copy I have
is an enlargement).
Extract from the sitting of March 14, 1918.
Feda. They give a name like that [Feda draws G]. {S.v.
Gerald.) Do you laiow Gerald 1
SiTTEB. Yes, I very much want to know about that.
F. ... Do you know if that Gerald is moving from one
jjlace to another ?
S. Yes.
F. But he won't be in the second place long. The
younger one says they're hoping something important
will happen to him at the second place. Do you
know if he's going to be near a place called M 1
S. Yes.
F. They say something about M. Gerald is going to get a
^
chance, he's been doing the up hill work. . . . Do
you know if Gerald's wearing anything belonging to
him ?
S. I don't know.
F. Well, he ought to. Do you remember the younger one
had a watch what he wore there ? [Feda indicates
the wrist]. He can't find it.
S. Why does he want it ?
F. He wanted Gerald to have it.
S. He doesn't know where it is ?
F. No, he doesn't. He says he'd have liked old Gerald to
have it. Do you know any one Gerald knows
called Mac ?
S. Yes, but Mac isn't all.
F. No, some one must have called him Mac. {S.v.
Mackie, Macldnny.) MacKen, a bit more than that,
but Feda can't get him. Do you know if that one's
all right ?
S. Has he been ill ?
F. Yes, that [Mackenzie] one. That one didn't seem to
know he was there. He couldn't help him. He's
Lxxxn.] Articles Associated ^vith a Communicator. 115
been pretty bad Feda thinks. His nerves have
suffered with it.
S. Has he got any message for that one ?
F. He'd like to send his love. He doesn't think he ought
to go into bad conditions. He oughtn't to go into
war conditions. He oughtn't to have different tem-
peratures. He's had a good shaking up, that one.
Tell him he knows about him being ill. He seems
like going from one place to another, but in quite a
different way to Gerald.
[There follows a description of a girl (said to be
living) in the course of which the following statement
was made :] She's got rather a nice figure, but
slight ;
very nice hands, awful nice-shaped hands.
He particularly noticed that.
In selecting a pseudonym for the sitter of March 14,
1918, who prefers for family reasons that her name should
not be given, care has been taken to represent as accurately
as possible Feda's approximations to the name, which she
finally gave correctly (see extract above). This was one
of the two occasions referred to on p. 26 in which the
sitter had previously written a letter to Mrs. Leonard
asking for an appointment, which she was not able to get.
Comment by Mrs. Mackenzie.
My eldest son's name is Gerald [brother to the alleged
communicator]. Gerald has been at Malta where he has
just been given command of an important ship. He
moves to and fro constantly and hitherto was having for
the most part a very uninteresting time.
[Concerning the allusion to a WTist-watch] in the Kst of
things [the communicator] was wearing which was sent to
me by the German Red Cross to be returned to me later,
the watch was not mentioned. It had evidently been
taken. It is also curious that it was my younger son,
subsequently mentioned as McKen " who constantly said :
"If only I could have had his watch."
116 . • Mrs. W. H. Salter. [paet
[With reference to the allusions to " McKen "] this
applies to my younger son, who has been very ill and has
just gone to S. Africa for his health.
[The description of the girl (not identified)] is interesting
from the fact that [the communicator] was always especi-
ally interested in hands. .
Extract from sitting of January 15, 1918.
Feda. He keeps looking at that ring [a ring on the sitter's
hand]. Seems as if he's wearing something like it
; himself. He held out his hand as if he was putting
a ring on his small finger. He keeps showing it.
Not that one, it's this one—can you see ? He keeps
on showing Feda a ring. It looks plainer, like a
plain gold ring on his little finger. It seems almost
symbolical. He seems to want you to know he's
wearing it.
Comment by the sitter.
The plain gold ring I gave my husband [the com-
municator] and he always wore it, as I am wearing it at
present. It is and has always been most symbolical.
Extract from sitting of March 21, 1918.
^
Feda. {Sotto voce. What about the other ring ?) He's wearing
a ring. '
'
Sitter. Yes, I know.
F. He says he's wearing a ring. He's going to wear it
till you go over.
S. I didn't give it to him.
F. No, but he regards it as symbolical. He always wore
it here.
S. Yes, I know it well.
F. He's regarding it symbolically.
^ See also pp. 1 1 and 84. . ..
"
Lxxxii.] Articles Associated with a Communicator. 117
Comment by the sitter.
About the ring I can't understand why he [the com-
municator, sitter's brother] should regard it symbolically,
as it was my father's signet ring ; he always wore it.
This and other passages in the sitting strongly suggest
that Feda had jumped to the conclusion that the communi-
cator was the sitter's fiance. Hence her allusion to a
symbolical ring.
Extract from the sitting of January 31, 1918.
FfiDA. Then on the other side a letter like this [drawing].
Can you see, Mrs. NeUie [the recorder] ?
H. S. Yes, E.
F. E is a lady in the spirit world. The man she's got
with her is tall, an elderly man. He's been very
tall, but he wasn't quite as straight as he oifght to
have been—got his head a httle bent forwards before
, he passed over. Fine-looking features—the cheek-
bones show a little—the eyes look a bluey colour,
when he was younger—got a little faded—sunken a
little. The eyebrows straight, a bit bushy, standing
out. He's got a line between his eyes—a broad
forehead—the eyes and forehead more developed than
the lower part. There's some hair on his face below.
Feda can't see the lower part distinctly. Rather
pale, but a kind, nice look—the hair a little thin on
the top—longer than the younger man. He had
some difficult condition of breathing and his chest,
before he passed over—that's what made him bend.
Feda thinks he'd had a cough—a sort of thicltness
in the throat—rather wheezy—makes a noise like
that [imitates wheezing]. Feda thinks he had that
very bad before he passed over. Wait a bit. G or
C coming up now—wait a minute—coming up close
to him. He was a good man, when he was here
—
he was clever too mentally—had a fine brain. He'd
known a lot of people—lots of people liked him and
noticed what he said. He'd been connected with
118 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
another town—quite away from London. He's tried
to get through to you before. . . .
He wanted this put down sj)ecialiy carefully—this
is the older gentleman what's speaking—can't think
what it is—like a piece of cardboard—like a certificate
—not quite that—he keeps smiling, but that's not a
bad word. The top part is like fancy letters—the
first letter is very big, scrawly scroUy—underneath is
something thick and then some more ordinary writing
—^in three different styles. It isn't all scrawly, but
it's all rather difficult to read. Scrawly at the top,
rather thick below, and then more ordinary writing
at the bottom. At one corner—Feda don't know
which—when he said left he showed right—there's a
fancy kind of design—rather round—in the right
hand corner—this is important Feda thinks—rather
round in shape and with a scrawliness outside
—
{S.v. Crowned with something) can't get that quite—
•
not so much a crown, Feda thinks, as something
being crowned. This was something he thought a lot
of—it's still in existence. It was once hung up, but
he isn't sure if it is still. It had to be taken down
for some j)urpose. You might make enquiries. It
would be a test.
Comment by the sitter.
Elizabeth was ^he name of a favourite cousin. . . . But
there is another possible E, Elizabeth, my grandfather's
sister ; for the man mentioned as bemg with her is
evidently meant for my grandfather.
In regard to my grandfather, who died before I was
born, I shall quote my mother to whom I sent the notes
of the sitting without comment of any sort. She says of
this man : "In some ways like my father, but he was
not very tall, but did bend over, because his back troubled
him. He had a line between his eyes. Except when on
his deathbed he had no trouble with his breathing. He
was '
a good man,' and had a fine mind, and had known
many people of many nations and kinds. He was liked
by many people and what he said was generally interesting
Lxxxii.] Articles Associated ivith a Communicator. 119
and remembered. Though English by birth, he was a
naturaUzed American, and much connected with Phila-
delphia, where two of his brothers lived, and Avhere he
owned proj^erty."
[With regard to the piece of cardboard, etc."] my
mother says :
" I think this very interesting. My father would not
find it easy to identify himself to my daughter, because
there was nothing very marked in his life, but as the
brother of Dr. , it would be more easy. Feda
describes the Resolutions passed by the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, of which my uncle
was President for eight years. On his death the Academy
presented the family with a very beautiful copy of these
Resolutions written on parchment and illuminated. The
writing is '
in three different styles '
and there are many
signatures in the right-hand corner at the bottom. The
frame had my uncle's crest, of which he was very fond,
on the top. "
This is something he thought a lot of, it's
still in existence '
would be true of my father's feeling for
it, and until his death it hung in his room. After his
death, it was packed up by my mother and destroyed in
a fire, but I have a photograph of it, and some of my
cousins have the duplicate that belonged to their father."
I remember the photograph very Avell. It hangs outside
my bedroom door in America. I thought of it when Feda
Avas describing " the certificate," but was puzzled by her
saying it was cro\vned with something—the photograph is
not—and by the fact that I knew it concerned my great-
uncle, not my grandfather.
Extract from sitting of February 7, 1918.
Feda. He's trjdng to show Feda a kind of satchel—he's left
the joke,i he's jumped. The satchel is a brownish
colour, and it seems to fasten at the side, and where
you undoes it —it's not only a bag, it's got a place
you can stuff things into.
SiTTEE. What's in it ?
^ Discussed in the immediately preceding part of the sitting.
Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
There's a good many things in it, one thing's a funny
rather shiny dark thing, it's got a dark cover, it's
about a foot long. It's got a light metal cap at one
end of this dark thing, like silver looking. He had
that with him and he's not sure if it was sent back
in the satchel.
You never got what was inside the dark cover.
Feda don't think anything was, he used to use it, take
it all in his hand, and there was something that as
though when he touched it went click, it was like
an instrument.
I think I know it.
{8.V. Then—what's that ? something he used to wash
himself with ought to have been in the satchel too.)
He says he was not able to wash much just before
he passed over. He says there was washing material
rolled up at the bottom of the satchel. He says a
case or book with papers in it was in there too,
when you ojoened it the paper seemed to be fixed or
stuck in, fixed in so as not to fall out, that's on one
side, on the other side was a compartment, that
seems to have been there too. Another thing he has
been looldng for is his watch.
I got that.
It's one like this (touches a wrist watch on the sitter's
wrist). . . . It's like this one isn't it ? (Touches
wrist watch again.)
Yes, one of them is.
He says did a case come back with a little photograph
in it ?
No, I want to know about that.
He says he had it with him when he passed over, it
was not a thing he would give to anyone, he's sure
he had it with him. Feda noticed him pause about
that, and Feda thinks that at one time he had an
idea of leaving that somewhere, but he says he had
it with him.
Could he say who was in the photograph, or who I
ought to write to about it ?
He thinks he had it all the time.
Lxxxir.] Articles Associated with a Communicator. 121
S. But who was in the photograph ?
F. He's telling about a letter Uke that, (Feda draws a G
in the air) Feda thinks it's a G.
S. A writing G.
F. Now G. has something to do with someone who could
throw light on the matter. He's pretty sure they
should be able to. Now wait a minute
—
S. Can he describe the photograph to me ?
F. (S.v. Yes he's trying to do that, something circular.)
He's drawing a shape like this (draws an oval on the
sitter's hand) and he shows Feda that it's sunk in a
little, and has a little raised ujd rim around. (Here
Feda claps her hands together softly.) Feda don't
know what he's doing, he keeps opening and shutting
his hands {s.v. he seemed to put that between
something). There's three materials go to the making
of that case, take that Uterally he says, he's puzzled
at your not having it.
S. Who's in the photograph ?
F. ,
He knows, but it's not easy to get it through, it's
better to get what he's thought of, if he does get it
through Feda will tell you. {S.v. Wait a minute,
are you sure you're not mixing it up with S- ?)
He says you've got at home something that he's not
sure if it belonged to him for not. He says he must
explain it's something he eels is being, or has been
sent to you, that belongs to someone else. It will
be sent as belonging to him.
S. I haven't got it yet.
F. He's patting either his neck, or the front part of his
chest, (Feda touches just below the collar in front)
he says you haven't got all his things yet.
S. I certainly haven't.
F. He says it must take a long time ! Something this is
that he's already see'd. Oh ! talking about photo-
graphs, he says did you know he had some photos
taken not mounted, they was soft paper things.
They was taken away from home, a few weeks
before he passed over, Feda's only guessing the time.
S. Less than a few weeks.
122 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
F. Towards the end part of his earth life, he had several
taken, and he Says they went into different people's
hands.
S. Was there more than one person in the photograph ?
F. In one he was alone, but on some there was certainly
more than one person, he says that's whj^ they were
divided up. In one Feda's not sure if he's sitting or
leaning against something, but looldng at the photo-
graph something is raised up on the left hand side,
it's about half way up the picture and it makes a
line across the picture. (Feda makes a gesture
indicating a horizontal line slanting upwards) whatever
this is it goes at the back of him too, looks like a
bulky thing. The photograph is taken outside, not
in a room.
Comment by the sitter.
I certainly received a satchel, but there were 7io papers
of his [the communicator's] in it. I got none of his old
letters or papers.
There was an old memorandum diary or two among his
things, and an empty tobacco pouch, but not such a thing
as Feda describes.
As I have received no photographs at all so far, I can't
verify the statements.
Every medium I have ever been to has mentioned the
photograph of himself with two or more officers and one
medium has described some huts near which it was taken.
Two have said it was in a leather case and one said on a
postcard. One other medium mentioned the round or oval
case which Feda speaks of earlier and which I believe
contained a photograph of me.
It will be seen that Feda's statements, so far as the
sitter has been able to verify them, are not accurate, and
so far as they correspond with ascertained facts, not beyond
chance-coincidence. The fact that the sitter has had
references made by several mediums to a photograph of
the communicator taken wdth other officers, which she has
been unable to trace, suggests that such statements are of
Lxxxn.] Articles Associated with a Communicator. 123
frequent occurrence at sittings, and unless a photograph is
accurately described in some detail not much importance
can attach to these statements.
Extract from sitting of A'pril 15, 1918.1
Fed.4. Did you receive his [the communicator's] pocliet book,
six inches by four and a half, two compartments ?
It had a photo in it and a letter written only two
days before, but not posted.
SiTTEE. We have not received it.
Comment by the •sitter.
I am writing to the army for information as to his
belongings. We have received nothing whatever.
Additional note. I wote the foregoing on 16th and
17th April, [1918] ; this part I write on 18th June, 1918.
I received a parcel from the War Office, Woolwich, over
twelve months after his passing over, containing his
personal effects. The parcel had been under sea water
and the old wrapping destroyed, but in it was the pocket
book of the size mentioned and a mass of photographic
postcards stuck together, and above all there was the
letter to us, quite a long and exceptional letter for him to
write.
This incident is of some interest because the knowledge
shown concerning the pocket book and its contents was not
possessed by the sitter at the time of the sitting. The
coincidence, however, is not very striking. Most men on
active service would possess a pocket book of about the
size mentioned, and it must fairly often have happened
that an unposted letter was found amongst a soldier's
belongings after his death.
1 The notes on this occasion were made by the sitter. Immediately
after the reference to the pocket book quoted here, the sitters name
was correctly given {see above, p. 26).
124 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
§ IV. Descriptions of Places associated with a
Communicator.
Extract from sitting of January 15, 1918.
Feda. The house with the two steps leading to the room. If
you go up the stairs you go up two steps to a
room—you turn round to a landing. It's some
place he's been at with you, some time ago. Up
two steps into a room or turn to the right up two
more steps to a landing. Some place you've been
to in early days.
Sitter. Yes, quite good.
Feda. It's a happy place. Feda don't know why he thought
of it. The country round about is rather hilly.
Comment by the sitter.
This is excellent. It is a correct description of the
house I am at present staying at and the room up two
steps referred to is my husband's [the communicator's]
study, at present used as a nursery.
This room has more associations with my husband than
any other.
Extract from sitting of Jannary 31, 1918.^
Feda. He's building up a letter. [Feda draws. Interpretation
very doubtful.] K and J, but the J isn't to do
with the K. This spirit has tried several times to
get through. He's taking Feda to a town by the
sea—a place he had to be at in his earth life in
rather an important part of his life. It's not an
ordinary sea-side place—it's as it proper ships go
there. The coast goes in there. If you're standing
on the land looking to the left, it's a rough coast
—
lumpy—but to the right is the town, spreading out
—
that's looking from the land, not from the sea. The
town lies a bit low, sloping up a bit. The town's
not got very high buildings—some higher, some
1 Cf. pp. 78, 98 and 101.
Lxxxil.] Places Associated ivith a Communicator. 125
lower. As you go up from the harbour, you go up
a winding road. About the middle of the town the
road opens out into a square place. 1, 2, 3, l
turnings out of that—and a kind of hotel place, a
bit to the left as you come away from the sea.
Something that makes a dingle and a rumble—sounds
like trams—electric trams. It's not a big town like
London, much smaller—it's busy place—at some
times it's a quieter place. Big ships goes there with
sails and steamers. An important letter connected
with that place. [She draAvs in the air.] Stroke
down, stroke down, and one across. [The recorder
could not see the drawing. It was interpreted by
the sitter as A.]
Sitter. Quite right.
F. When you go away from the town, it gets a bit hillier.
On the left as you face the sea, it's a bit rocky.
On the rocks they've built something out—there's a
building sticking up—about as high a building as
there is. It's built near the water. The ground
raises a bit on the right—there's a bit near the
water is lower, but behind it's raised up. When he
was there, he went a little journey, back a little—
a
sort of joining place—it was rather a nuisance going
there. He's impressing that strongly, as if it's
important. After the letter A comes a small one
[draws].
SiTTEE. I can't see.
F. Round and a little loop—over again—this is the third
letter—and then a long letter going up.
SiTTEE. I think I know from the first letter what the place is.
Comment by the sitter.
J is the first letter of [the supposed communicator's]
name. What follows is, it seems to me, a good description
of Alexandria where I first met the J s. I have taken
the trouble to verify several points with a map of the
to\TO, and to go over the description with Mrs. Salter
who thought it quite good. It is not perfectly correct
126 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
but it is a more accurate description than I could have
given from memory, though I lived there for nearly a
year. Feda has taken the town from, to me, its most
unfamiliar point of view, the harbour, which except on
arrival or departure I seldom visited. It is true that as
you leave the harbour you go along a winding road until
you reach the Place Muhammad Ali, from which four
principal streets do start. There is a large cafe there,
but I cannot remember the position. There are also
electric trams. Alexandi'ia is an important port, and
certainly a busy place, and the statement " at some times
it's a quieter place " is very characteristic. During the
winter large steamers come in weekly from Europe and
America, bringing hordes of tourists. Winter is also the
transport season. In the summer all this, bustle stops.
Summer is also the time when all of the European colony
who can depart for Europe. The statement " when he
was there he went a little journey back, a sort of joining
place, it was rather a nuisance going there. He's im-
pressing that strongly as if it's important " is also a good
point. Mex, where the regiments went for rifle practice^
was a long and most wearisome ride from Ramleh, the
suburb where we all lived, and my husband and niost^ of
the officers used to grumble bitterly about it.
§ V. References to Anniversaries.
Extract from sitting of January 15, 1918.
Feda. February, something interesting in February, another
month from now, as near as he [the communicator^
sitter's husband] can get it, something about which
he wants to be specially near you. He feels you
might be looking back and regretting something. An
anniversary connected with him. Feda thought
something connected with the child, but he shook
his head. An anniversary of something he did here.
If you remember, he doesn't want you to be un-
happy.
LXXXII.] References to Anniversaries. 127
Comment by the sitter.
A wedding took place just a month and a day after my
sitting which chiefly concerned the family, and at the
time of my sitting there was no thought of a wedding.
Our wedding day was always kept as a special fete day
and the anniversaries were each time marked.
Extract from, sitting of January 28, 1918.
FedA. He's speaking about himself now, an anniversary that
he's interested in. {S.v. : well, you're wrong, this
isn't February.) It's near February, the anniver-
sary is in February. He's been anticipating this
anniversary for some weeks, hoping some one wouldn't
be sad on it. He doesn't regret anything at all.
This anniversary affects some one else, he's afraid that
some one else will be miserable on it.
Feda thinks very soon there's another anniversary,
not of the same Idnd, not a date, something he did.
something very important in the latter part of his
earth life. It had a bearing on his passing on. If
he hadn't done this, he mightn't have passed over.
Something he did, some kind of journey or change.
'
. . . Two anniversaries, the date affects some one on
the earth plane ; he's trying to tell them not to be
sad, to have the hump. The other anniversary is
quite different, but it happened about the same time.
He took a journey unexpectedly. If he hadn't made
that change, he mightn't have passed on, but he
doesn't regret it.
Comment by the sitter.
My mother's [also the communicator's mother] birthday
is coming on very shortly during this month [February].
I don't know of [the second] anniversary [mentioned by
Feda].
Extract from sitting of February 25, 1918.
Feda. [S.v. March, that's next month.) He keeps say-
ing there's something in March connected with
128 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
him, an anniversary. {S.v. Is it to do with you or
some one else ?) Can't get that quite. Not this
month, next month, March. Two people on the
earth-plane will be thinking of that and worrying.
It is to do with him. Something he did, not the
anniversary of his passing over, but something
important that led up to his passing over. He gives
the impression of packing up. They call it an
anniversar}^, but it isn't a day like a birthday.
There is an anniversary close now, but that isn't
what he spoke of just now. He says it's right to
call it an anniversary, but it didn't happen on one
day. There is something that happened just now on
one day, more like a birthday. Feda don't know if
it's connected with him or some one on the earth-
plane. When Feda said anniversary, that put him in
mind of the second thing which is more like a
birthday, but it wasn't what he was giving.
The sitter notes that the communicator, his brother,
arrived at Basra on March 8, 1916. Since he was killed
about a month later, it might be said that he did some-
thing which ' led up to his passing over," something
which gives Feda the impression of " packing up " in
March. The other anniversary referred to, which is said
to be " more like a birthday " means nothing to the
sitter. -
Extract from sitting of March 4, 1918.
Feda. One of the changes you know about he made about
this time of year. {S.v. What's the month ?
March.) It's about now, it's in his mind about
this time. {S.v. This is March.) Feda's telling
him it's March. It's due about now, the more
important change. There was a delay. He antici-
pated it, but there was a delay. If he hadn't made
the second change, he mightn't have passed over.
,
This statement was not understood by the sitter.
LXXXII.] References to Anniversaries. 129
Extract from sitting of March 21, 1918.
Feda. Spirit people are always interested in anniversaries.
There's something— {S.v. This is March. It isn't
quite now ?) There's something about this time of
year that he regards as an anniversary. Not like
a birthday, more Hke a time or change connected
with him.
Sitter. In April I know, but not March.
F. Feda knew it wasn't quite close. He wondered if
you'd been anticipating it.
S. Yes.
F. He'll be specially near you then. It means something
to you both.
S. I'll remember.
F. {S.v. : Six, sixth.) There was something in con-
nexion with this— not quite it— that happened
on the sixth.
Comment by the sitter.
I do not recall anything about the 6th April ;
perhaps
it] was the day they arranged to recall him [the com-
municator], I cannot say. He was killed on April 27th,
which is of course the anniversary I have been anticipating.
Extract from sitting of April 15, 1918.
^. He [the communicator] says there was two anniversaries
^
about now, one that leads up to his passing over.
Comment by the sitter.
The two anniversaries are March 2nd and May 12th, the
former my birthday, the latter the day he passed over.
I
130 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
§ VI. Extracts from Two Sittings at which the same
Communicator purported to be present.
As noted above (p. 77) the sitters on January 29 and
April 9, 1918, respectively, were mother and daughter, and
the same young man (apparently) tried to communicate on
the two occasions. At the very beginning of the sitting
on April 9, 1918, Feda observed that the communicator
had " tried to communicate before, been to Feda before,"
but the connexion between the two sittings was never
clearly recognised. The extracts given below show the
most definite points of contact ; there was nothing in the
two sittings inconsistent with the supposition that the
same communicator was present at each.
Extracts from sitting of
April 9, 1918.
(1a) He passed over pretty
quickly. He tried to say this
before. He did pass over
pretty quickly. He didn't feel
anything. He felt his con-
sciousness going. He heard
two noises, one first, then he
felt dizzy, and then another
and everything went blank.
Except he thinks whatever it
was knocked him on the head.
It felt as if some one had
given him a knock. He thinks
it's p'raps been found out
something hit him on the
head. He has tried to say
before that he felt nothing
more.
(1) Comment by the sitter of January 29, 1918. This is quite
accurate. He was wounded in the arm and side (which Feda
touched when she said he was tapping himself lower down) ; an
Extracts from sitting of
January 29, 1918.
(1) He passed over suddenly,
a peculiar feeling right at the
top of the head ; not a pain,
like neuralgia when the pain
goes and leaves a dull pain.
He had it for about half a
minute, then he went uncon-
scious. He's tapping the lower
part of his body, but that
wasn't important. But what
he felt most was in his head.
He felt something lower down.
Lxxxri.] Extracts from Two Sittings. 131
attempt was made to move him to a place of safety, and on the
way he was shot through the head and killed instantaneously.
(2) When Feda was first
talking he was saying he was
worried about another young
man on the earth plane
—
some one in great danger
—
he's trying to help some one.
Some news he thinks has
abeady been got through.
He's so afraid of it's being
exaggerated. It's some one
he knows on the earth plane,
very well. It's inevitable that
something should happen, but
he doesn't want it exaggerated.
And to another lady too, the
news will come to two. It'll
look bad on the face of it ;
he wants you to remember
what he said and that it's
exaggerated. [Feda draws in
the air the letter R] and C
or G. It doesn't mean R C
or R G. It's two separate
names, C or G, and R as
well.
(2 a) Feda thinks there's
another lady on the earth
plane that he expected to see
as well as you. He kept
looking round . . . There's
you and another lady and
another young man, three of
you . . .
He's been with you a good
deal, with the three of you,
the other lady and the young
man. There are others look-
ing after the young man.
He's been anxious about this
young man lately. He wasn't
where he expected to find him
in the last few days. Perhaps
you'll hear . . .
He builds up a letter like
that [draws R in the air].
{S.v. Wait a minute, what's
the other ?) This is both
letters he's interested in.
[Draws C in the air]. Not a
G. He builds up both those
letters.
(2) Comment by the sitter of January 29, 1918. I don't under-
stand this entii-ely. R C are the initials of my younger son, who
is mentally deficient. We have not been able to get his entire
discharge from military service, that is, he has to have his
exemption renewed every six months. The time was just running
out when I had the sitting, but when it did, we had no difficulty
in getting his further exemption. I was feeling very anxious lest
they should take him this time ; this may account for my son's
reference to anxiety about the boy. He was also very fond of
telling me that I exaggerated the danger there might be, if tlie
boy had to serve.
132 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PABT
(3) He's building up A, some
one he met over there in the
spirit world, some one he's
met. He wanted you to know
he'd not been lonely. He met
several people belonging to the
family. He also met some
friends who had passed over
before him. There was a
young man passed over within
an hour of himself. They
met almost immediately. Do
you remember one he knew
who was missing ? (Sitter.
Yes.) You loiow he's passed
over now ? {Sitter. Yes.)
His people didn't think at
first he had, they thought he
was a prisoner. Nothing was
found out about him for some
time. It was through an
unofficial channel it was estab-
lished he had passed over. It
was difficult to find the body.
(3 a) He builds up another
letter in a different connexion
[Feda draws in the air A], as
if he were pushing it nearer to
you, as if it's more an earth
plane condition . . .
He's got a lot of friends
with him, two or three young
men ... As well as the fair
one there's a darker one . . .
He passed over in the war.
There was something rather
peculiar about his passing over,
like something worrying, would
upset people who were fond of
him. Feda should think there
was some delay in hearing
about him.
(3) Co7nment by sitter of January 29, 1918. A may refer to a
cousin who went over before him or to a friend who followed him
a few months later. The man who passed out within an hour of
himself was probably a fellow-officer for whom he had a strong
affection. He was the last man my son spoke to before going
over the top. which they did together. Within an hour both
were dead.
This reference to the young man who was missing is quite good.
He was very devoted to my son. There was great difficulty in
finding out anything about his death ; it was quite unofficially
established that he had been killed and his place of bm-ial was
found.
Lxxxii.] Apparent Communication from Person still alive. 133
§ VII. Some Evidence of Apparent Communication
FROM A Person still alive.
The following report of a sitting taken by Dr. L. P.
Jacks is of special interest, because, together with refer-
ences perfectly intelligible to the sitter, statements were
made about a supposed communicator which might have
applied to a son of Dr. Jacks, then fighting at the front,
and some knowledge was shown which might have been
taken as going some way to establish the identity of the
communicator, had Dr. Jacks' son been dead at the time
of the sitting. In point of fact, he was, and is, still
ahve. This was the first sitting Dr. Jacks had had with
Mrs. Leonard, and he sat anonymously.
Record of the sitting of April 5, 1918.
^
Feda. a young man comes who knows this gentleman. He's
about twenty-two, on the tall side, about medium
breadth, very straight, holds himself straight, got a
straight way of looking. His chin is a good shape,
firm, a tiny bit square, the jaw not heavy, but the
chin square. The mouth is medium, the lips a
Httle curved, his nose showing the bridge a httle bit,
rather straight, not quite aquiline, a little bit broad
from the tip of the nostrils. The eyes grey-blue ;
the eye-brows not much arched, brown, nicely marked,
a good forehead, square, the hair short, sticks up a
little on top. He brushes it away from his forehead.
He brushes it sideways and back, not parted in the
middle. He passed over suddenly. He's tried to
communicate before. He's not building up in
uniform, in a suit rather hke this [indicates the
medium's grey tweed coat and skirt]. It's one he
used to wear in earth life, not quite at the end.
^ Almost the whole of the record is quoted. A few words have been
omitted here and there which have no bearing upon questions of
evidence.
134 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
He's tried to communicate before.^ There's a lady
on the earth plane he wants to meet as well as you.^
There's an older lady with him in the spirit world,
medium build, got thin a little before she passed
over, neatly dressed, tidy ; the face rather round
here [indicates the cheeks], sloping to the chin, the
nose rather straight, the mouth gone a little thin.
She'd been ill for some time before she passed over.
Her face was sunken towards the end of her earth
life. The chin not large, very nice shaped. Can't
see the eyes distinctly, the eyebrows a brownish
colour, not black, rather a dark brown, a little
arched ; a nice skin, but she shows herself a bit
pale. The hair is done a bit plainly, smooth to the
side of the head, not over the ears, done towards the
crown of the head. Not sure if it's parted, but it
goes off the face, smooth back. It's going grey, but
it had been on the dark side. Judging from her
skin Feda thinks she'd been on the dark side. A
very nice smooth soft skin she'd had. She hadn't
been well for some time before she passed over. She
had some internal weakness. She had it for some
time, but it hadn't got so serious till a few months
before she passed over. She builds a letter like that
near her [Feda draws an A in the air]. She'd lived
a good deal in the country, a country house and a
country town more than London.^
' Comment by the sitter. I cannot identify him. I thought at
first it was my son. Captain S. Jacks, at the front, as the de-
scription tallies at several points. I was afraid he might have been
killed. I now know he was alive at the time of the sitting.
* Tills might refer either to the sitter's wife or to his daughter,
both of whom are living. H. S.
^ Comment by the sitter. The description of the older lady fits
my own mother fairly well. Her name began with A. She died
20 years previously.
It is worth observing that on my showing this part of the report
to various members of my family some months after the sitting,
they all identified the " spirits " differently. My own jdentification
of the first "spirit" as my son was immediately challenged in
LXXXli.] Apparent Communication from Person still alive. 135
The young man she's interested in passed over
since her. She's looking after him for some one on
the earth plane. Between him and you is a letter R
and a C or G, not sure which. He builds it up
like a circle.
L. P. J. Is it 0 ?
F. Feda see it better in a minute. {S.v. Can't quite get
that letter, the letter that comes after.) He's been
trying to communicate before with some one else,
tried to come to Feda before to get some message
through. (S.v. Been near a place beginning with B
before he passed over.^) Feda don't think he was
right in, but quite close. He thinks you can find
out, and a place called M close to.
Feda get a feeUng in the head before he passed
over. Feda get a sudden tight sort of bursting
feeling in the head. He felt that, not a pain, but
most uncomfortable. And round his chest a tight
feeling, as if he couldn't breathe. It didn't last
long. It didn't hurt. Having that feeUng in the
head prevented him from feeling any pain. He
suddenly lost consciousness and he didn't know any
more.
Something has happened since he passed over
which makes him feel he may have moved after, but
he didn't know he did. He speaks of feeling dizzy
before he passed over, and he heard a noise very
close, several noises. He'd been with other people a
little time before, but he felt suddenly alone ,^ or
away from the others.^
L. P. J. Does he know how long it is since he passed over ?
favour of another young man whom the description fits about
equally well. This shows how uncertain such identifications are.
^ Comment by the sitter. B might mean Birmingham, where I
once lived.
^ This description of physical symptoms at the time of death is, of
coxirse, wholly inapplicable to Captain Jacks, to whom Dr. Jacks thought
at the time of the sitting reference might be intended. If some other
man is referred to here, Dr. Jacks cannot identify him. H. S.
136 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
F. Not very long, Feda thinks, not a matter of years.
{S.v. He'd expected to go to a hospital.) When he
woke on the other side he thought it was a hospital
he was in. (S.v. A young man he knew before has
passed over just lately, a friend. His name began
with M.^) And B as well, two people he knew. He
thinks you've got a small photo and a larger one ;
two photos. One has been done much later than
the other. He thinks either you've got them or
you've seen them.^
L. P. J. That's a photo of him, or of M ?
F. Of him. {S.v. S too, a friend of his.) He builds up
a letter S. It's connected with him. He builds up
a big letter S at the side of him. There's two
young men here, this one and one by the side of
him. The other one is a bit darker. The two is
together.
L. P. J. Is he dark or fair ?
F. Rather bluey eyes and a fair skin. The other one is
darker. One keeps building the letter M between
them. And a letter like a circle. Feda thinks it
must be 0. These two have been together in the
spirit world. They both want to come to you this
morning. But there's a lady on the earth plane
they go to, not young, about the middle of life..
S, M and 0 they build up, and what's that K or H ?
[Feda draws K in the air.]
L. P. J. K.
F. Those letters is connected with them ^ . . . One of the
young men lived in a place called L. He wants you
to think about that after. S has got to do with a
place, to do with the fair one.
L. P. J. Is it where he lived ? .
1 See below.
^ Comment by the sitter. As I have had to do with young men.
for many years, the photographs have too many appHcations tO'
make this of any value.
Comment by the sitter. S, M, O are the initials of three of my
sons in the reverse order of their ages. They were all alive at
the time of the sitting. I can make nothing of K.
Lxxxii.] Apparent Communication from Person still alive. 137
F. Yes. Not the S that's a name.
L. P. J. Is S his name ?
F. Feda thinks so. S a place and S a name. He didn't
always live at S. {S.v. Machinery of some kind.)
Do you know if for some time he'd been interested
in machinery, very important machinery, as if con-
centrated in a small space ? Like as if he had to
bend down and look at this. P'raps more like
apparatus. He feels machinery suggests something
too coarse. Like a box-shaped thing with a little
door and holes in the side, and something makes a
whirring noise. He shuts something, like shutting
something oif.
L. P. J. Was it something he used to ride with ?
F. Yes, it used to make a whirring sound . . . {S.v.
Maurice.)
L. P. J. Maurice. [Repeated to the recorder, who had not
caught Feda's whisper.]
F. He's saying Maurice.
L. P. J. Does he want to send a message to Maurice ?
F. He's helping Maurice i
he says.
[There follow some allusions to Maurice's supposed
circumstances at the time, which were not under-
stood.]
F. There's a girl and a younger lady and a gentleman not
with hair on his face.
L. P. J. I should like to talk to that gentleman.
F. He's showing himself at the back. A fine-looking face,
rather sensitive. He's looking anxious now. Acrosl.
the upper part of the face he's a little broader, then
a little thinner below. Rather a good-looking face.
The nose comes out, a little bit to the Roman kind,
rather a straight line between the nose and mouth,'
the under lip comes out a tiny bit, towards the end
' Comment by the ,
sitter. This is the name of my second son,
Captam Maurice Jacks. I had been thinking a lot about Maurice
on the day of the sitting. It is odd Feda should give this name
138 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
of his earth-life the under lip was a tiny bit fuller.
The mouth not small.
^
L. P. J. Did he know me in earth life ?
F. Feda think so. He was a very good man when he was
here. Feda thinks something in his earth life was a
preparation for the other side. He's got something
important, he's going to do work with you and he's
already started. He's going to influence you in
speaking and writing, as if he was going to tell you
what to say. You're going to carry on and elaborate
something he had to leave undone when he passed
over. Had he a connexion with another country ?
^
L. P. J. I think he had.
F. He comes close to you, but in a different way, more as
if there was a spirit bond between you than an
earth bond. He keeps on holding up a book as if
he was passing it on to you.
L. P. J. Yes.
F. As if he were putting this book into your hands. He
pointed to himself first. He's opening the book and
pointing to something inside.
L. P. J. Can he make some letters ?
[Feda draws in the air, C]
L. P. J. Yes, I understand C.
F. He's trying to form a word. [She draws C, h (un-
certain), a.] That comes in the word.
L. P. J. Yes.
F. [She draws m, b.] He spells these letters, but it's not
complete. [She draws r, s (uncertain).] He's missed
something.
L. P. J. Tell him I think 1 understand.^
1
Comment by the sitter. This is quite a good description of my
late friend, Professor J. Royce of Harvard. N.B.—l had been
wondering if he would turn up. He and I worked on much the
same lines, had much in common and were great friends. And
I had recently published an article on him in the Atlantic Monthly.
2 Comment by the sitter. Yes, America.
3 Comment by the sitter. We have got C A M B R [S]—Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, where Royce lived and where we were
together in 1886, 1907, 1912.
Lxxxn.] Apparent Communication from Person still alive. 139
F. He'll be able to manifest better as time goes on. A,
he builds up.
L. P. J. Can he give the country ?
P. A and M too. Feda think the country he spoke
about—it wasn't just for a holiday he was interested
in it, but in a serious way.^ He'd got a strong
interest in a public building, stone, not brick. A
book again. He must have been fond of books M^hen
he was here. He shows shelves of books. You've
got a book connected with him. Do you know he's
already tried to write through you ?
L. P. J. Yes.2
F. He says through you. He seems to work your brain
and your hand. It isn't only when you're writing,
but when you're walking along, he can tell you what
to write.
L. P. .J. Yes.
J". He gave you something lately that was on a subject
beginning with R.
L. P. .J. Ask him to get the next letter.
[Feda draws in the air R 0.]
L. P. J. 0.
F. [She draws in the air Y.] Don't know what it means.
L. P. J. Are you sure R is right ?
F. [She draws Roy.] It looks like that to Feda.
Not quite right, something like it, but not quite
right.
L. P. J. He's getting on very weU.
F. R, R. he says, R.
L. P. J. Yes, I understand, R.
F. He says it, but Feda's not sure about it's being the
letter.
L. P. J. R's quite clear to me.
F. Ar, Ar, like the sound of Ar. Not R-r-r, but Ar.
L. P. J. Yes.
^ Comment by the sitter. A, M— America. What follows
seems to refer to (1) college buildings, (2) studies and books—
quite appropriate to the nature of our connexion.
^ Comment by the sitter. I meant no more by this than that
his ideas had influenced me in my own writing.
140 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
F. He can't get it yet.^
L. P. J. Ask him if he remembers anything we did together.
F. He thinks you ought to remember about the building.
L. P. J. Yes.
A particular building at a place called E.^
L. P. J. I don't remember.
F. Then there was a building called M.
L. P. .J. Yes, I remember M.
F. It's connected with a building. He went from one
building to another, like travelling round them. AIL
these buildings used to hold a lot of people, a great
number of people.^ He had an idea of his own in
regard to a building, but he wasn't able to carry it
through. He had a kind of ideal in his mind. He
wasn't able to accomplish this ideal.
L. P. J. Does he remember what the building was to be
made of ?
F. He's smiling. Not bricks, not even ordinary stone.
He's drawing a letter like that [she draws G It
would have a good deal of that in it. It was a^
funny building.
L. P. J. Yes.
^ Comment by the sitter. There seems to be a muddle here
between ROY, the first three letters of his own name, and
L O Y, the first three letters of " Loyalty," which was the title
of one of his books and also the title of an article I had written
about him. I can't make out what the '
Ar '
sound means.
" Comment by the sitter. This might be the Emerson Hall at
Harvard, which was the building in which Royce used to lecture
and where we were often together.
^ Comment by the sitter. It might be Manchester College, Oxford,
where Royce gave lectures for a period in 1913, and was daily
with me. The going from E to M—the passage from lecturing in j
Emerson Hall to lecturing in Manchester College. The next point i
struck me as the most significant part of the sitting. The tran- i
sition from the idea of the college building to the ideal spiritual i
building is in keeping. His last books were all about a spiritual i
building which he called the Ideal of the Great Community and it ;.
was on this idea that we had often conversed. (See my article
|
on him in the Atlantic Monthly, February, 1918.) I
* See below.
I
Lxxxn.] Apparent Communication from Person still alive. 141
F. It was a kind of ideal in his head.
L. P. J. Is that what he wants me to help him to build ?
F. He says : " Yes, but not quite as I planned it. It'll
be different now."
L. P. J. Yes, I understand.
F. Something beyond him will make it different. As soon
as he came he began to talk about a building.
L. P. J. Tell him I'm glad he's still interested in that building.
F. He didn't think you'd think he would forget about that
building . . .
L. P. J. Can he tell me what name to give to the building ?
F. He looks upon it as a palace. He doesn't want to
call it that.
L. P. J. Is palace large enough ?
F. A palace of truth, a palace of knowledge. You can
call it temple, if you like ; it'll be different to any
other temple.
L. P. J. Does he remember we used to give it a bigger name ?
F. Yes he'd like to get it through.
L. P. J. Shall I tell him ?
F. No, he'll try to give it. He wants to get to it by
stages. First palace, then temple, then (s.v. what ?
God).
L. P. J. (to recorder). Did you hear that ?
H. S. I heard " God."
F. Funny this, can't get it.
L. P. J. I think he's said enough.
F. (S.v. God, says something about God. God's K
—
K— K— con— K— Ken—)
L. P. J. Does he mean " kingdom " ?
F. Feda thinks so. Can only get K and an N sound.i
He has others on the other side helping him . . .
This time we shall carry it through, he says.
• Comment by the sitter. A spiritual building, not made with
hands, was, roughly, Royee's interpretation of the kingdom of God.
The building in question was a community of souls—the main
theme of Royee's later philosophy.
It has since occurred to me that the word Feda was trying to
make was not " kingdom," as I suggested, but " community."
Observe that she didn't quite accept " kingdom." Community is
142 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
L. P. J. Yes.
F. He says the time is nearly right now.
L. P. J. Why does he think it's right ?
F. {S.v. Evolution, evolution.) It's rolling towards it now.
In some way the war helps. In a lesser way it
creates difficulties, but it opens the way. If it
hadn't been for the war we might have had to wait.
L. P. J. Is that what he helped me to say ?
F. Yes, and very forcibly too. You've got to keep on
telling them that. That's the key-note ^ . . .
Deacon, deacon, he says.
L. P. J. Is that a man's name ?
F. Feda thinks it's over there in the spirit world. Don't
know if it's a name, or what he'd be called.
L. P. J. I don't understand Deacon.
F. Deacon is right, but there's more to it. {S.v. Arch.)
It's not a name, it's a title, archdeacon. He keeps
giving like a bridge with his finger. Archdeacon on
his side.
L. P. J. Is the archdeacon some one with him ?
F. Yes, some one he's got an affinity with, and somebody
called M, belongs to his band.-
L. P. J. Would the young man like to come back 1
F. Yes, he gives his love . . .
L. P. J. Does the young man want me to give his love to
any one ?
F. To a lady on the earth-plane and to Maurice. He
wants to be remembered to E.
L. P. J. Is E a lady ?
a key-word in Royce's writings. It sliould be borne in mind that
I had myself been thinking and writing about this '
community
'
about the time of the sitting.
1 Comment by the sitter. It is the key-note of what I had said
in the article nientioiied above.
^ Comment by the sitter. Quite unintelligible. I know no Arch-
deacon and have had nothing to do with " deacons." [This is
possibly a working out of the earlier aliusion to the sound " Ar "
(see above, p. 139). H. S.]
Lxxxn.] Apparent Communication from Person still alive. 143
F. Not sure.i The power is weakening. The young man
was glad to come. He's all right, he says, getting
on splendidly. Goodbye.
General note by the sitter.
Had the whole sitting been of the character of the first
part, I should have said it was the common stock-in-trade
of a professional medium, throwing out vague generalities
(mostly fitted to the circumstances of the time, the war,
etc.) on to which excited persons might force a particular
meaning according to their hopes and fears. But in the
second part the medium seems to have tapped my mind
about Royce—especially the article—and that inclines me
to think that she was also telepathically tapping me in
the first part, my mind being much preoccupied at the
time with anxieties about my sons and losses of young
friends in the war.
The total impression left on my mind is similar to that
left by many common dreams. There is the same muddle
and incoherency at first, in which definite personalities
seem to appear for a moment and then change into some-
body else, the facts getting hopelessly mixed up, the action
of one person shading off into that of another. And then
towards the end the dream becomes more coherent and
interesting, keeping up a definite character for a time,
with a sudden return to nonsense (the Archdeacon, etc.)
and a momentary reappearance of the people first on the
scene.
1 Comment by the sitter. E is the initial of my only daughter.
This made me think again that it might be my son Stopford
sending a message to his sister. I know of no other young man
" on the other side " who would want to send a message to E.
144 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
REVIEWS.
I. Physikalische Phaenomene des Mediumismus, Studien zur
Erforschung der TeleJcinetischen Vorgdnge. By Dr. A. v.
ScHRENCK NoTziNG. Pp. X, 201 ; 15 Plates. (Munich :
E. Reinhardt. 1920.)
Dr. von Schrenck Notzing's remarkable work is composed of
studies of telekinetic movements of objects which have been
recorded as occurring in the mediumship of Stanislava Tomczyk,
by Prof. Ochorowicz and himself ; of Eusapia Paladino, by
many investigators including himself ; and of several private,
i.e. unprofessional, mediums recently observed in Germany by
himself, together with an extensive account of Dr. Crawford's
first two books on the Goligher Case, and a discussion of the
lecture on " Supranormal Physiology and the Phenomena of
Ideoplasty " given by Dr. Gustave Geley to the Institut Psycho-
logique in the College de France in January, 1918. To explain
these cases, the theory advocated is that telekinetic effects are
less developed stages of the teleplastic phenomena exhibited by
* Eva C.,' and so fully described in Dr. v. Schrenck Notzing's
big book on The Phenomena of Materialisation, and like them
are ultimately inherent in, and relative to, the medium's
mentality. Dr. v. Schrenck Notzing supposes that the move-
ment is ardently desired and its achievement is dreamt, where-
upon the medium's creative imagination evolves '
pseudopodia,'
or '
efflorescences,' out of the body, which proceed to produce
mechanically the effects observed. Such emanations were, he
shows, frequently described by sitters with Eusapia Paladino,
they are represented in the Tomczyk Case by the very fine
.' threads,' connecting the medium's hands, shown on some of
the photographs, they are indicated also in the Goligher Case,
though Dr. v. . Schrenck Notzing had not then heard of Craw-
Lxxxn.] Reviews. 145
ford's photographs of '
psychic cantilevers,' which look so
singularly like the 'plasma' produced by 'Eva C On the
other hand, he differs from Crawford in wholly rejecting the
agency of '
spirits,' and wUl not admit that the beUefs of the
mediums and sitters are well-founded.
Of course at present any theory other than fraud about
these staggering phenomena must appear anomalous. And if
there was fraud, it must have been facilitated by incredible
carelessness on the part of the observers, and all their very
precise statements about the conditions of experiment, and
their examination of the mediums before and after their
performances, must be wholly unworthy of credence. Dr. v.
Schrenck Notzing, moreover, does not rely solely on his pre-
cautions as regards the '
threads '
seen in the Tomczyk photo-
graphs ; he also provides plates to show how different they
look, when magnified, from any natural fibre. If fraud can
definitely be excluded, and at present one who has not himself
seen the phenomena will hardly feel that they have been
repeated and varied sufficiently to justify this confidence, the
field is open for a variety of explanations, and in the actual
state of our knowledge the choice among them is largely a
matter of taste. It may be that '
spirits '
in themselves
explain nothing. Again, it may be argued that if there is a
'
soul,' as a substantive entity, at all, it must have the plastic
power of building up its body according to its idea of its
form ; this art it cannot be supposed to have wholly lost, and
conceivably the abnormal improvisation of temporary limbs,
where its normal equipment does not suffice, may be a mani-
festation of it. '
Materialisation '
would thus become a quasi-
natural process : but, if so, it must conform to mechanical
laws—as Dr. Cra-n'ford has argvied, and more or less shown
—
and the difficulties of conceiving the functioning of a material-
ised limb are peculiarly great precisely on the mechanical side.
It is no less perplexing to read (p. 3) that " the lively wish of
lifting an object from a distance leads to the associated idea
of a thread, with which the experimentjf might be performed :
thereupon the objective phantom of a thread is brought into
being by a hallucination that realizes itself in matter." Thus
we are literally required to believe that '
wishes are horses
'
and mediums can ride them ; but what, pray, is an '
objective
K
146 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
phantom '
? And how can a '
hallucination '
convert itself into
a material reality, even -for an instant ? These queer creatures
seem to have one foot in the world of . reality and the other in
a dream, and suggest a confusionj/^of thought and reaUty
worthy of the maddest idealism. Still the notions with which
the human mind apprehends new facts always seem at first
absurd, and will correct themselves ifj they conduce to effective
handling of the facts ; while if these things are facts, science
must assume that they are capable of being understood.
F. C. S. Schiller.
II. Vom Jenseits der Seele. Die Geheimwissenschaften in
Kritischer Betrachtimg. By Max Dessoir. Pp. xvi, 362.
(Stuttgart : Ferdinand Enke. 1920.)
Prof. Dessoir is one of the few psychologists who [ has had
the courage to face the problems of psychical research and to
envisage seriously the possibilities of the supernormal. Indeed
he appears to have done not a little actual investigation, e.g.
with Slade, Eusapia Paladino, and Anna Rothe, and his
sceptical conclusions are by no means merely the expression of
a theoretic bias. His general attitude is that of a very
critical psychical researcher, like that of the late Frank Pod-
more, and even this demands a deal of courage in Germany,
where authoritarianism and a priori dogmatism have always
been at home, and the mental atmosphere seems still to be
very similar to that prevailing in England forty years ago. It
is not surprising therefore that he should always carefully
disclaim any personal sympathy with '
superstitions,' should
apologize for condescending to dabble in such rubbish, and
should castigate the misguided followers of dissenters from
scientific orthodoxy who have made a certain impression even
on the German mind. For it is clear that in Germany also
there has been a pretty extensive recrudescence of superstitions,
which appears to have been exploited in the interest of his
'
theosophy ' or '
anthroposophy' by Dr. Rudolf Steiner, who
gets properly snubbed by Prot. Dessoir. On the other hand,
he is uniformly appreciative, and very respectful, towards the
work of the S.P.R., to which he] refers extensively, and admits
that the Piper Case, particularly, contains a residuum, when
Lxxxn.] Reviews. 147
all conceivable deductions have been made, of which there is
not, so far, any normal explanation. For the rest it may be
briefly noted that the '
beyond '
of the soul referred to in the
title means its unconscious depths, that the account of '
Pro-
fessor Bert Reese '
(pp. 129-34) is a valuable contribution to
the history of the fraudulent, and that of Anton Johansen, to
that of the apparently genuine, supernormal. The book, which
was first published in 1917, reached its fifth edition in 1920,
and deserves its success. n c<
C. S. Schiller.
III. The Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle. By W. J.
Crawford, D.Sc. Pp. vi. 161. London : John Watkins. 1921.
In the volume before us the late Dr. W. J. Crawford continued
the summary of the results which he believed he had obtained
through the instrumentality of the Gohgher Circle in Belfast.
The two previous volumes. The Reality of Psychic Phenome-na and
Experiments in Psychical Science dealt in a very general and
sketchy manner with a series of experiments in telekinetic phe-
nomena which were conducted under the most favourable circum-
stances. In the present volume these experiments are continued
and the book is enriched by specimens of some of the flashlight
photographs which have been secured of the " plasma "
which,
it is alleged, extrudes from the body of the principal medium,
Miss Kathleen Goligher. Now that Dr. Crawford is no longer
here to defend his thesis it may seem unfair to some to critidze
his work in any but a commendatory spirit, but, after all, the
books are unique in their fine and deserve the careful con-
sideration of all those interested in the physical phenomena of
spirituaHsm. On re-reading the first two volumes and then
comparing them with the one before us the conclusion seems
difficuh to avoid that these are not records of experiments
systematically conducted, but merely summaries of results obtained
through a system of procedure concerning the details of which the
reader is left in ignorance. We do not believe that Dr. Crawford
omitted to record the phenomena of each seance with its appro-
priate detail and it is to be hoped that his full notes may be
preserved for the benefit of those who are not content with bald
statements of occurrences which are said to have taken place.
It must be remembered that the experiments outlined in these
volumes were principally conducted by one man in a circle of
148 E. J.D. [PAET
some seven persons and it is only to be expected that under
these conditions the method of research was not one which would
appeal to many of the more critical students of psychical phe-
nomena. The books are, in fact, as the author himself suggests
on p. 151 of the present volume, popular expositions and not
scientific treatises in any proper sense of that term. If this
preliminary supposition is granted (and it seems one difficult to
evade) it may appear an impertinence to ofier criticism of a
destructive rather than a constructive nature, yet it is necessary
to counteract the opinion widely held in spiritualistic circles that
the books are models of scientific accuracy and therefore pro-
portionately valuable. On the other hand even popular hand-
books ought to contain those details which are essential to an
intelligent appreciation of the matter under review. In the
present case Dr. Crawford has so often omitted these bare facts
that at times we are tempted to throw the books down and
give up trying to obtain any rational idea of the phenomena of
which they treat. A few examples of these and certain other
points calling for some comment may be found interesting.
Firstly then, the question of fraud. We do not propose to
say anything on this subject ourselves but to confine our remarks
to pointing out some of the extraordinary theories apparently
held by the late Dr. Crawford. Let us turn to the catalogue
of points against fraud noted in R.P.P., p. 10 seq. The first
" fact
" which shows that the phenomena are genuine is that the
family are convinced spiritualists. The second is that the seances
are looked upon as religious institutions. The fifth is that the
medium is a private one, and there are others equally irrelevant.
The springs of human conduct are far too deep to be analyzed
in this fashion and discoveries in modern abnormal psychology
show that problems of motive are some of the most baffling
phenomena with which it has to deal. Again compare the " test
"
instituted by Dr. Crawford in order to see if the medium could
move her feet when tied {Psychic Structures, p. 35). He " allowed
her to do her utmost with her feet, but she was incapable of
doing anything." ^
This is surely a remarkable "test," almost as remarkable as
the naive assumption on p. 34 when dealing with precautionary
measures that the " medium and members of the circle were just
as interested as I was . . . in order to render the results as
1
Cf. also p. 64 of the saint) book.
LXXXII.] Reviews. 149
certain as possible and beyond any reasonable suspicion of doubt."
These observations do not reflect in the least on the purity and
integrity of the Goligher Circle. We merely present them as
specimens of Dr. Crawford's attitude in the face of grave per-
plexity and we can scarcely consider such methods as likely to
prove convincing to those who have not the opportunity of
observing these phenomena at first hand, or becoming personally
acquainted with the mediums. We pass on to the lighting
arrangements. From the volumes before us it is quite impossible
to get any real notion of the amount of light that was used at
the seances. " A subdued kind of light issuing from a large
surface of ordinary gas flame {R.P.P., 12) : a gas jet (76., 6) :
strong red illumination {P.S., 33) : a red electric light (lb., 89).
We want to know the size, illuminating surface and quality of
the gas jet as well as the voltage, etc., of the electric lamp.
Yet all these elementary details are omitted. One further ex-
ample will suffice ; it is the test box (excellent device) described
on p. 88 of Psychic Structures and illustrated in Fig. 46. We
are told neither the length, breadth, height nor thickness of the
wood. The variety of wood employed is not given, although
this is a mere detail, since we do not remember that the kind of
wood of which the seance table is constructed has been yet
given. In the case of the box the size of the holes is not given,
nor the length of the screws which secure the top piece to the
sides. In fact, it is merely stated that a test box was employed
just as is usually done in a summary of results obtained. A
point that may be considered in this connexion is the statement
on p. 93 of Psychic Structures, that when the medium wore
high boots and her feet were placed in the test box they were
so tightly wedged as to be immovable. We can understand
that she would have been unable to move her legs, but what
prevents her from raising the front portion of her feet from the
floor of the box we are unable to say. Perhaps her power of
moving her feet during the sittings is in abeyance just as Mr.
Morrison's sensibility seems so acute that when he is touched on
the boot he is able to describe it as something as soft as the
flesh of a baby (p. 65).
We do not wish to lay too great an emphasis on points of this
kind, as such criticism may perhaps tend to distract attention
from the value which these volumes undoubtedly possess. After
all, even assuming that they are summaries and that some of the
150 E. J. D. [part Lxxxn.]
experiments are incomplete, tiiey contribute the ' first reasoned
attempt to account rationally for the physical phenomena of
spiritualism and for telekinetic phenomena in particular. The
experiments with clay and methylene blue indicate the possibilities
that may be achieved in this line of research and might themselves
be considerably amplified. It is a peculiar circumstance that if the
structures succeed in carrying about ordinary matter like clay
and various colouring agents it is not possible to employ some
substance of a viscous nature which may spread evenly over the
materialized end and so render it clearly visible moving about.
The use of luminous cardboard also is useful in all these experi-
ments and it seems a pity that Dr. Crawford did not make more
use of it.
Not the least interesting part of the volume before us is the
collection of photographs which have been admirably reproduced.
Just before Dr. Crawford's death we had the opportunity of
inspecting the much larger collection containing those specimens
which Dr. Crawford thought unsuitable for publication. We
regret their omission, as they constitute, in our opinion, one of
the most important links in a chain of experiments of which
very little is known outside well-informed circles.^ Indeed we
may say that the existence of these photographs and their ac-
cumulation in the case of this and other mediums may be the
ultimate means of understanding the mechanics of these pheno-
mena. The author of these books having passed away, it
remains for others to carry on his work and to revise and com-
plete his experiments. The works he has left can scarcely fail
to be regarded in the future as the most important contributions
towards the study of telekinesis which have appeared up to the
time that their author met his untimely end.
E. J. D.
^ By the generosity of an anonymous donor a complete set of the photo-
graphs of the Goligher phenomena, taken by the late Dr. Crawford, has
been presented to the Society. They were on view at the conversazione on
May 20, 1921, and will shortly be available for the inspection of members
at the Society's Rooms.
PROBLEMS OF HYPNOTISM.
An Experimental Investigation.
By Dr. Sydney Alrutz, Lecturer on Psychology at
the University of LTpsala.
{This paper was read before the Society for Psychical
Research on October 4, 1920.^)
Introdticiory
.
As is well known, the old hypnotists, Mesmer and his
followers, proclaimed the existence of some sort of subtle
fluid which emanated from the body of the hypnotizer
and was projected onto the subject. This theory is nearly
dead in our days, still a few investigators of more modern
date have accepted it in one form or other.
Another view was held by Braid, the father of modern
hypnotism. He maintained—at least during his first
period—that by visual and mental concentration the
subject can be put into a new state, the hypnotic, charac-
terized by certain symptoms, which in their turn are
capable of being modified by physical means, e.g. by cold.
Consequently, Braid did not believe in any fluid, nor in
the power of the hypnotizer's will alone to influence the
subject. And only later on did he attribute any im-
portance to the imagination of the subject, or to what
we now would call the factor of suggestion.
Charcot and his school ought to be classified under
this head, because they considered that difi^erent kinds
of sense-stimulus, e.g. light and sound, could as such
Certain omi.ssions and additions have been made in the paper as
now published. S. A.
152 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part
produce hjrpnosis, and because they believed that certain
semi-hypnotic phenomena could be obtained by magnets,
metals, etc. They also proclaimed the existence of definite:
forms of hypnosis at least in regard to hysterical patients
j
and of hemi-lateral or half-sided hypnosis, even of hetero-i
lateral hypnosis, or of such a state where one half of the
body is in one hypnotic state, the other half in another
one.
In our days the suggestive school reigns nearly supreme,
|
that is to say, suggestion, direct or indirect, is held to'
be the cause and the sole necessary one not only of'
hypnotization itself, but also of all the phenomena which;
can be produced during hypnosis.
^
The first problem which I have tried to solve is whether
any " fluid " or, to put it more broadly, whether any
nervous effluence of some kind exists. Are all nervous
systems really so well isolated that a specific influence
at a distance from one to the other cannot take place
even under favourable conditions ?
We know that in hypnotizing use is sometimes made,
especially by the mesmerists, of passes, that is to say, the
hypnotizer makes strokes over the skin, clothes, etc., of
his subject, but without touching him. The question then
is : Can the fingers or the hands of a person—whether
moving or kept still—without any contact and after all
known factors of importance, such as the usual stimulation
of the senses, expectation, suggestion, telepathy, simu-
lation, etc., have been eliminated or at least made im-
material, and after the subject has been put in hypnosis,
bring about certain changes in his organism, for instance
in the skin (the dermal sensibility) or in the muscles
(the neuro-muscular apparatus) ? It is of course better
to begin our investigations with certain hypnotic experi-
ments such as these than to try to establish the effects i
1 Some of Bramwell's cases, treated by hypnotic " meaas, where no
sjTnptoms of induced hjrpnosis were obtained and where the evidence
as to the very remarkable therapeutic results being due to " suggestion
"
alone was by no means convincing, are from this point of view inter-
esting (Bramwell, Hypnotism, 1906, p. 421 S.) : They seem to prove
some efficacy of the methods used, independent of suggestion.
Lxxxm.] Problems of Hypnotism. 153
of passes on the act of hypnotizing itself, as it is in
this latter case much more difficult to avoid suggestions
of various kinds.
Sensibility ; the Senses.
In order to eliminate the above-mentioned sources of
error I fix a sheet of glass by means of a stand and
, clip above one or both of the subject's arms, and also cover
I
his head completely with a black cloth. Such an arrange-
i ment naturally excludes the possibility of thermal or
I
mechanical stimulation of the skin from the passes {e.g.
by currents of air), and thus the subject cannot get any
dermal sensations which he might use as a starting-point
for auto-suggestions. Of course no word is spoken.
Let us now suppose that I make, say with my left
hand, downward passes above the sheet of glass placed
above the right arm and hand of the subject, whom we
suppose to be in light hypnosis and therefore over -sensi-
tive,^ and that I do not do anything at all with my
right hand. Then, if I make say 10 to 16 passes during
about I minute, complete insensibility of the skin
—
analgesia and anaesthesia—is obtained, but only beneath
the sheet of glass. The other parts of the body do
not change their over-sensitiveness, with the exception of
the opposite symmetrical part of the body ; in this case
the other left arm and hand, which become still more
over-sensitive than before : they get what I call an
" extra "-oversensitiveness (for shortness' sake called in
the following only : extra-sensitiveness). That is to say,
you can prick the right arm as much and as hard as
you like even with a needle, and place hot or cold metal
on it without getting any reaction, but the moment you
touch the skin on the left arm ever so lightly with the
point of a needle or with my " algesimeter " even at its
lowest pressure (2 grammes) the subject reacts violently
^ In light hypnosis three of my principal subjects show spontaneously
a hyperaesthesia, an over-sensitiveness not only in regard to the skin but
also in regard to the other sense-organs, and the neuro-muscular irrita-
bility is also increased.
154 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [PART
(a dermal-muscular reflex action), and says he felt a
sharp prick. The same extreme sensitiveness exists also
in regard to thermal stimulation, so weak that it other-
wise would not affect him. In point of fact, the threshold- \
values for the different skin-senses get more and more \
increased on the surface above which the •
downward
passes are made and more and more lessened on the ;
opposite one. (As to exact figures, see below.)
If I now make upward passes above the subject's
insensible right arm, sensibility is restored gradually till
the over-sensitiveness which characterises the light hyp-
nosis comes in. If I continue the passes still further
I obtain an ever- increasing extra-sensitiveness. That is
to say : whilst downward passes lower the sensibility,
upward ones heighten it.
When trying to ascertain the properties of different
substances in regard to their power to transmit the
effects of the passes, I found the important fact that all
substances do not behave in the same way in this respect.
Glass and metal have been found to be transparent,
whilst cardboard, paper, flannel, wool, etc., are more or
less opaque to this influence.
This makes the following experiment possible. Before
the glass-sheet in the stand and clip is placed above the
bared skin of the subject, it is partially covered, for
instance, with a flannel cloth. If I now make downward
passes above it, I find only the skin beneath the uncovered
part of the sheet of glass insensible, the other parts
retaining their sensibility. This combined method can of
course be varied in many ways.
Fig. 1 shows the arrangement I now generally use.
The arms of the subject are wholly enclosed in boxes
with panes of glass as lids and as frontpieces.
If, as in this case, the subject's right arm is covered
with glass and, flannel, the left arm only with glass and
I make downward passes with both hands simultaneously
—as the figure shows—then only the left side becomes
analgesic and anaesthetic, the right arm showing the
corresponding extra-sensitiveness. This simultaneous metJiod
gives of course added safety—the subject in such a case
Fig. 1 (see p. 154).
LXXXIII.] Problems of Hypnotism. 155
not even being able to know or hear on which side to
expect the primary effect. (I can here add, that I have,
of course, sometimes clogged the ears of the subject but
nevertheless obtained the usual results.)
In Fig. 2 the subject is in deep hypnosis, that is to
say, he is in a condition induced by making a lot of
downward passes generally over the whole body of the
subject when he is in light hypnosis. He then becomes
completely analgesic and anaesthetic over the whole body,
the irritability of the neuro-muscular apparatus being also
diminished—as we shall see later on. The subject makes
no movements and usually does not hear or answer even
the hypnotiser.
Now in this condition downward passes have no appre-
ciable effect on the skin—quite as we ought to expect.
But upward ones have ;
they restore the sensibility.
In this experiment I use the simultaneous and combined
methods in this way : on both sides is a sheet of glass,
but the one above the subject's right arm is covered
beforehand with a woollen cloth. If I now make simul-
taneously on both sides upward passes, the sensibility on
the subject's left side is restored—more or less according
to the number of passes made ; the right arm remains
insensitive.
The selective absorption occurring when the combined
method is used is specially well shown by the following
experiment, which also excludes all possibility of the
subject's guessing the exact nature of the arrangement.
The system of screens consists of a large sheet of
cardboard which covers the whole hand (35 by 25 cm.),
with a piece cut out 3 cm. broad and II cm. deep, and
a sheet of glass or metal. These two sheets are placed
one on top of the other, sometimes with the glass or
metal sheet on top, sometimes the cardboard one, but
preferably the latter, and are fixed in a stand over one
j
hand of the subject so that the gap in the cardboard
sheet lies above one of his outstretched and spread-out
,
fingers. Passes are then made —descending ones in light
I
hypnosis, ascending ones in deep hypnosis —over the
whole system.
156 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part
Already 10 experiments of this kind have been carried
out extending over several years. My choice of finger
has been pure chance. The examination has been done
with 3 kinds of stimuli, beginning on one of the end
fingers and running through all of them, backwards and
forwards. That finger or those fingers which twitched
were considered sensitive, the others not. Result : In
seven experiments the correct finger was effected ; in
two the correct finger and an adjacent one ; in one an
adjacent finger first and then the right one.
As the gap was a little broader than a finger and
no guarantee existed that the subject held his fingers
quite still, the incorrect results may be explained in this
way.
We must now turn our attention to experiments made
with the non-informed method, that is, a method which
does not allow even the experimenter to know the arrange-
ment made use of. They are important, firstly, because
they give increased safety in regard to the subject's
ignorance of the arrangement ;
secondly, because they
e iminate the possibility of telepathy from the experi-
menter being the real and sole cause of the effects obtained
in these kinds of experiments ;
thirdly, because when the
experimenter does not know what results to expect, he
cannot make the following examination of the skm in
a way favourable to the right result.
Let me now give you a few examples of these non-
informed or non-knowing experiments. They can, of
course, be made in several ways. The following group
refers to subject No. 1.
Sitting 20. 26/12, 1910. The subject in light hypnosis ; a
cloth over the face.
Dr. von Bahr fixed a belt of cottonwool about 6-7 cm.
wide to and under a brass plate—I did not see where the
belt was. Then he held the plate over the subject's right
arm and hand (the latter being closed). I made descending
passes for a minute and then tested the sensibihty (still
unaware of where the belt was). I found the whole hand as
Lxxxm.] Problems of Hypnotism. 157
far as the wrist sensitive, the rest insensible. This was right,
i.e. the cotton belt had been situated just above the hand.
. . . 15. I then asked Dr. von Bahr to cut out a round
piece of cotton this time, not a belt, and fasten it to the
brass plate and then I would try to find where it was. During
the test which followed I immediately found two more or less
round places, one fairly near the coat-sleeve and one just
above the ^vrist. I was astonished to find two. Only then
Dr. von Bahr showed me the brass plate from underneath, and
there I saw two circles stuck fast. One coincided exactly
with the upper sensitive circle, but the other had been situated
some centimetres lower down on the arm (above the wrist).
Sitting 37. The subject in light hypnosis.
Professor Svedberg was allowed to do as he liked. I
went out of the room. S. then came and told me that he
had used a screen of tin-plate over the whole of the left arm
and hand and put a large matchbox (irox7 cm.) on top of
this screen at its highest part and had then made descending
passes for one and a half minutes. He had not expected
any certain result himself. The result he obtained was that
the topmost belt—corresponding fairly accurately to the match-
box—-was stiU sensitive, but the other part of the arm and
hand was insensible to the algesimeter (and even, as it proved
later on, to metal objects) : the right arm was, on the con-
trary, extra-sensitive. The result was thus regular, i.e. in
accordance with my general results.
Sitting 38. 29/10, 1911. The subject in light hypnosis.
Sister L., who was quite ignorant of the nature of the
experiments, was allowed to choose between ascending and
descending passes, right and left, a brass screen and a card-
board screen (two) : there were thus eight possibUities present.
Period of excitation : one minute. After Sister L. had carried
out her task, I went in and first investigated the left side
(which at my request L. now for the first time said she had
operated on). I found no difference between left and right,
and then Sister L. informed me that she had used the card-
board screens on the left side and made descending passes.
(Regular result.)
158 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part
Sitting 44. 10/12, 1911. At my house. A cloth over the
subject's face. Light hypnosis.
... 3. Mr. Olof Rosen, Fil. Lie, was asked (outside the
seance room) to use a large screen of zinc and to place a
wooUen cloth above this, either over the forearm or the hand
and (in doing so) to choose either the left or the right (side).
Mr. R. made the experiment, and when I entered I found
undeniable insensibiUty to the algesimeter (6 gm.), metal
(stimulus of cold) and cotton-wool (tickling), on the left fore-
arm. Both hands were about normal for light hypnosis and
the right forearm was somewhat " hyper." R. had put the
zinc screen over the left side and the woollen cloth on it,
above the hand, and made downward passes above the system.
R. had had no ideas as to the result, which was regular.
Sitting 48. 17/2, 1912. Prese^it : Mrs. E. L. mid Mrs. A—z.
I showed Mrs. L. in another room hoiv the various passes were
made. She did not know their S2)ecific effects or those of the
different screens. W. vms in deep hypnosis and insensible on
both sides. A cloth was put over his face.
1. Mrs. E. L. was allowed to choose (without my knowledge)
between right and left, ascending and descending passes, and
these were to be made above a zinc plate, at the bottom part
of which there was a woollen cloth folded four times (corre-
sponding to the hand). The period of stimulation was one
minute. Only Mrs. A—z was present. After the treatment
I went in and found the same condition as before, E. L.
had actually made descending passes over the left side. (Mrs.
A—z was astonished, as she had absent-mindedly expected the
sensibility to be restored.) The result was, however, quite
regular.
2. E. L. was again allowed to choose between the same four
possibilities. She was alone. I came in afterwards and found
the right hand insensible, but the right arm sensitive to pain
—
my algesimeter (6 gms.)—to cold and to cotton-wool ; the
left side was insensible. 1 then said to E. L. that she had
made ascending passes on the right side, which was right.
In the following experiment (No. 105^) we have a
combination experiment with a zinc box and paraffin.
FiCi. :> (see |i. l.j!)).
Lxxxm.] Problerns of Hypnotism. 159
which was carried out according to the non-informed
method by Dr. Klapper and myself and where the material
in question, the paraffin, showed a greater power of
absorption than zinc alone. (See Fig. 3.)
Sitting 105. 11/12, 1915. Psychol. Laboratory. Dr. Klapper
as my assistant. ... 9. Deep hypnosis.
An experiment made with the zinc box one half of which
was filled \\dth paraffin the lid being on, and the box placed
above the left arm, resulted in restitution (after three series
of ascending passes by me with the right hand) of sensibility
to a needle, cold and cottonwool m the hand and half the
forearm, not in the upper half of the forearm, which corre-
sponded fairly well to the boundary Ime in the box. The lid
was not taken off until after the examination of the skin and
the paraffin was found to lie above the upper part of the
forearm. None of us knew the position of the paraffin.
Irradiation.
We may now go to the phenomena of what I will
term irradiation. If I make more passes than are needed
to obtain a local effect, say an anaesthesia of the left
arm, then the insensitiveness spreads to the whole of
the left side of the body, the whole other half becoming
extra-sensitive. And the middle sagittal line of the body
becomes strictly the borderline. Thus, if I make a super-
fluous number of downward passes over the left arm and
examine the left side of the fore-hand with cottonwool,
no tickling is felt and no reaction results. But as soon
as I pass the middle line the reflex action ensues and
strong tickling is felt. This inhibition or decrease of
function through or by irradiation on the same half of
the body is proportionate to the dynamogenic increase on
the other half. If instead of downward passes, upward
ones are made on one half of the body beyond what is
required to obtain a local effect, and an increased hyper-
sensitiveness of that half of the body is thus obtained,
then the other half gets its sensibility lowered in pro-
portion.
160 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [PART
But this heterolateral change of function exists not only
in regard to the dermal sensibility, but in regard to all
the other senses and the neuro -muscular apparatus as well.
Let us take smell, for instance.
Fig. 4 shows an experiment where the left side has
been made insensitive, the right side extra-sensitive ;
the right nostril was then clogged, the left one left open.
A piece of cottonwool drenched in turpentine is neither
smelt nor reacted upon when held to the left nostril.
Fig. 5. The left nostril is now clogged, the right open,
the right side being extra-sensitive. A strong effect is
obtained in this case, even at a distance, as is seen in
the figure. I have been able to obtain these results
with a new subject at the very first sitting I had with
him, this experiment being also the first of all then made.
Exact determinations of the acuity of smell on the
extra-sensitive side have been made by Dr. Backman and
myself with the help of the smelling box of Zwaardemaker,
in which mixtures of smelling substances of different
concentration can be evaporated.
The mixtures were given to the subject in irregular order,
and pure water was also given as a control-experiment ;
no mistakes were made by him.
Without giving exact figures I can say that on the
extra-sensitive side the gustatory acuity for vinegar was
twice as great as in the waking condition, for benzaldehyd
five times as great.
As to the pain-sense, a pressure of 0-8 grams made with
the needle of Thunberg's algesimeter gave no pricking sensa-
tions in the waking condition, only (secondary) itching
sensations, but on the extra-sensitive side a pressure of
only 0-1 gram gave pricking sensations.
When examining the thermal senses in a certain degree
of lowered sensitiveness I found that a sheet of silver
of 4 square cm., \ mm. thick and heated to a temperature
of 64° Cent., gave m this condition only paradox
sensations of cold and jiressure sensations, thus showing
that the warm-sense falls away before the cold-sense.
In point of fact the skin-senses disappear in this sequence
pain-, warmth-, cold- and pressure-sense.
Fig. 5 (see p. 160).
LXXXIII.] Problems of Hypnotism. 161
The threshold of pressure-discrimmation is also strongly-
affected. In waking condition the distance between two
points placed on the skin must be 25-35 mm. in order to
be distinguished as two (forearm, volarside, for subject
No. 1). In light hypnosis this distance can be lessened
to 2-4 mm.
I must put other senses aside, and turn to sight. We
find on the extra-sensitive side a strong increase in the
acuity of vision far above the normal, also an expansion of
the fields of vision and of colour, an increased sensitiveness
value for light and colour, a lengthening of the spectrum,
an alteration in the mutual positions and lengths of the
colours of the spectrum and an enhanced brightness of
these colours, which, when extreme, leads to the subject
seeing the whole of the spectrum as a bright white.
These forms of visual hjrperaesthesia are proportionate to
the degree of hjrper-sensibility of the skin on the same
side and are accompanied by a corresponding decrease of
function (hypoaesthesia) in the skin and eye of the other
side. Here we find more or less strongly diminution in
the acuity of vision, contraction of the fields of vision
and colour, weakness or absence of the colour-sense,
etc.
After this survey let me give a few figures. Sub-
ject 1, who is emmetropic, has in the waking condition an
acmty of vision (V.) = 0-9 ; in light hypnosis on each eye
separately : V. =somewhat more than 1 ; with both eyes :
V. > 1-2 ; in light hypnosis on the extra-sensitive side
:
V.= l-8 at the most, and when diagrams not seen before
by him are used. On the other eye V. is then only =0-25.
This phenomenon is brought out very neatly if you make
passes, upwards or downwards, above the same arm as
the eye used during his reading, his ability to read
smaller type increasing or decreasing respectively.
As to the fields of vision and of colour, I shaU only
give two pictures showing that their extension goes
parallel to the sensibility of the skin.
Fig. 6. The innermost field A shows the extension
of the field of vision when subject 3 was awake. She
on one occasion, being a hysterica gravis, was then,
162 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part
although awake, analgesic and anaesthetic. The middle
field B shows how it gets larger when I restore the il
sensibility half-way on the same side by upward passes,
"
which were made above her arm and through a sheet of
glass, so that she could neither see nor hear nor feel
tkem. The outermost field C shows its extension when
I restored the sensibility by the same means to the
greatest extent possible. These examinations were made
with the help of a perimeter and with a white mark of
^
1 square centimeter.
Fig. 7 shows the fields of colour. Here I used a red
mark. A shows the extension when the subject is anaes-
thetic and analgesic, B when the subject is restored as
much as possible. All these five fields are quite correct
in relation to each other physiologically. Now the
examination itself was made by an assistant physiologist '
who took down the values with both the marks and in
the difi^erent directions irregularly and who was unaware
of their ideal concentricity until the experiment was i
ended and the fields drawn up. ]
Figs. 8 and 9. In order to find the threshold of the
sense of light I used Prof. Gullstrand's photoptometer. An
electric lamp inside the instrument sends out its light
through a window in front consisting of 900 holes, of
which as many as you like can be opened or shut at
the time. By this means a square piece of white paper
is illuminated in the dark room. The same subject, 3, |
when nearly insensitive, was found to be able just to
see the white square after 35 minutes of dark-adaptation,
if about 50 holes were opened. When the sensibility was
half-way restored she needed only 13 to 19, when restored
as much as possible 7 to 9, and when the sensibility was
lowered as much as possible with the help of downward
passes, as usual through a sheet of glass, 150-180 holes
|
were needed. Here also the examination was made by ;
an assistant-physiologist, who in most cases did not know
how many holes he exposed each time. Of course the
number of holes can be transformed into different values ^
of illumination, but this is not necessary for our purpose.
The given number of holes represents quite correctly the
Fig. 8 (see p 162).
Fie;. 'J (sec p. 1G2).
LXXXIII.] Problems of Hypnotism. 163
degree of illumination needed in each condition, that is,
the threshold of the rods for white light.
Turning now to the spectrum, I have made my most
numerous and my best experiments with subject 2, who
sees the spectrum quite normally from 720 /j-ij. to 400 mM;
when using a pocket spectroscope allowing him to read
off the wave-lengths directly. In light hypnosis he sees
all the colours clearer and lighter. '
When, however, I
begin to make upward passes above his bare arm—as
usual through a sheet of glass—on the same side as the
observing eye, the alterations mentioned before take place
gradually and in a manner exactly parallel to the degree of
extra-dermal sensibility which I produce by my passes.
Thus the subject sees the spectrum further and further
out, especially at the red end. Here he sees red-brown, and
bro-svTi so far out as to 800 And when using a kind of
spectroscope, the anomaloscope (Nagel), where the different
lights are seen isolated, he sees as far as about 900 mm
even without any special dark-adaptation. At the same
time the colours not only become brighter and brighter,
they also change quality or tone. Yellow gets first
whitish and at last quite white, whilst the colours on
both sides of it, orange and red on one side, yellow-
green and green on the other, get more and more yellow.
I cannot here relate all the phases of the process, but I
may say that, after yellow, red and green nearly simultane-
ously are transformed into white, blue retaining its
colour to the last.
If downward passes now are made everything goes back,
xintil the visual state characteristic for the usual light
hypnosis is reached and then the dermal sensibility is of
course equal on both sides. If I continue the downward
passes the spectrum gets darker and darker, shrinks
more and more and at last only grey in different grades
of lightness is seen—the brightest part being as before
the place where yellow was seen : A = 575-585 ,UM.
Can we, however, be sure that all this is not the effect
of suggestion, imagination or simulation 1 I can only
assert that all the statements of these subjects show a
perfect inner consistency ; that subject No. 1 shows the
164 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part
same principal phenomena, that is to say, in the hyper-
aesthetic state increased length and brightness of the ,
spectrum and also the transformation of yellow into white ;
that the subject also makes right statements when
coloured glasses, e.g. Wratten light-filters of different power
of absorption are placed in front of the instrument ;
that when a single light is shown him in the anomaloscope
and upward or downward passes are made (see Fig. 10)
his statements of its changes up and down are just those
which he ought to make judging by his description of a
general spectrum ; and that stereoscopic tests where I
give the hyperaesthetic eye one kind of colour and the
hypoaesthetic another kind, also give results which per- ;
fectly well agree with results otherwise obtained.
But do not irregular results sometimes ensue ? Certainly,,
but I think that by now, i.e. after 10 years of research-
work in this field, I pretty well know the reasons why ;
they occur, even if I cannot always prevent these irregu- j
larities. The causes of irregular results are (1) changes
in the hypnotic sleep itself—if during the experiment the
light hypnosis changes into deep, you get a spontaneous
change or mixture of sensibility, which spoils the results i
of the passes ; (2) if the subject's peculiar sensitiveness j
towards this nervous radiation is less than usual, you do j
not get the usual resvilt without increasing the number
of passes ; if, on the other hand, it is greater than usual
—
and this happens especially when you have worked with
a subject a long time—then you get through irradiation
the whole side changed, instead of only getting a local
change as you expected. When Sir William Barrett did
me the pleasure of attending my experiments at Upsala
he himself made a number of different experiments,,
simple and combined, of which all but one turned out
quite regular. In this single experiment, where the
position of the filtering paper beneath the metal screen
was unknown to us, the skin beneath the paper ought
not to have become insensitive. However, it was so. \
But we omitted to examine the condition of the dermal
sensibility on other parts of that half of the body, simply
because at that time these irradiation-phenomena did wot
Fig. 10 (see p. 164).
LXXXIII.] Problems of Hypnotism. 165
occur so much or were not known by me. The experi-
ment may of course have been wrong, but it may also
have been right. Because the examination of the skin
was made in an unsatisfactory manner, this experiment
must be cancelled and cannot be counted as a failure.
(3) The opaque substances do not seem to be quite opaque
to this influence—if you go on making passes you generally
get an effect at last, possibly depending upon the screen
itself getting charged with the effluence and so becoming
a secondary source of force. (4) You have to reckon with
what Charcot called consecutive oscillations, that is to
say, a change in the dermal sensibility on one side has
a tendency to transfer itself after a while spontaneously
not only to the other side but also back again to the
first one, and so on—especially when a superfluous number
of passes are made. I have by experiment found this
to be true. But it is a very disturbing process to
encounter. (5) The condition of the dermal sensibility
depends upon the functioning of the other senses—which
I found out rather late to my regret. E.g. stimulation
through light, i.e. opening of the eyes, diminishes the
over-sensitiveness of the skin in light hypnosis.
The important point is therefore : do you get so many
right results, i.e. results which agree with the direction
of the passes and the kind of arrangements used, that
this percentage cannot be accounted for by chance, auto-
suggestion or simulation ? I am sorry that space does
not permit me to give complete statistics. I can only
give you some extracts.
Out of 21 experiments with combined methods made
up to a certain date and where no experimental faults
had been committed, 17 gave quite regular results, 2 haK-
regular and only 2 irregular. Of these 21 experiments
10 were made with the non-informed method. I have
already given the statistics for the experiments made
with a system consisting of a sheet of glass and a piece
of cardboard with a gap for one finger with subject No. 1.
Once I placed this system above the hand and fingers
of subject No. 2 and in a series of 10 trials I only
'pointed towards one of his fingers. Every trial resulted
166 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [PAET
in movements and certain sensations in only that special
finger. In these last experiments telepathy as well as the
gaze can play a part, however. I shall treat of this
later on.
In a series which Prof. Ohrvall made with the subject
No. 2 and where downward and upward passes were made
irregularly, the subject looking the whole time in the
anomaloscope, every downward pass resulted in a darkening
and a change of colour in a certain direction of the light
observed and vice versa for the upward passes. The
subject had a cloth over his head and the passes were
made above a sheet of glass as usual. The series com-
prised 23 trials and no irregular result was obtained.
As to statistics of experiments made under conditions
unknown to the experimenter, 78 per cent, of the experi-
ments made up to a certain date showed regular results.
Here even telepathy must be considered ruled out of the
question. And in all the eleven experiments that were
carried out to find out whether my thoughts or my wish
could prevent a certain effect of passes from taking place,
the passes prevailed over this possible telepathic effect.
Motility.
We are also able to produce and show an effect of
passes—or of pointing with the finger of the operator
—
on the neuro-muscular system.
Let me give a few examples of this. The subject's
whole arm and hand have sometimes been enclosed in a
cylinder of glass, the whole arm and hand lying, e.g. with
their dorsal side upwards, the hand clenched.
Fig. 11 shows an assistant young anatomist making an
experiment under these conditions. He points at the long
extensor muscle of the thumb and the result is that only
this is extended. The reproduction given here seems
to show that the forefinger was extended also, but this
was not the case : it is the cottonwool underneath which
causes this illusion. On the negative you can see quite
distinctly that the forefinger is not extended.
Fig. 12 shows the assistant pointing at the general
Fig. 14 (see p. 1 67).
liXxxni.] Problems of Hypnotism. 167
extensor of the fingers and you see how all of them this
time became extended and not the thumb. These 2
experiments are especially interesting, because the original
position was the same for both.
Fig. 13 shows how the effluence can effect sinews—the
operator pointed this time with a rod of glass through
a sheet of glass at the sinew of the forefinger of the
common extensor. Of course, this reaction is also to be
considered as a reflex -action. I wish to point out that
by this method you can extend any fingers you hke,
and in an irregular order.
If you touch the skin and in this way exert a pressure
on the muscles, sinews or nerves, you get a stronger and
more immediate effect.
Fig. 14 shows this on subject No. 3. This is the effect
of pressure with my finger on the motor spot of the long
flexor of the thumb.
If pressure is exerted on a motor nerve, e.g. on n.
facialis, you also get a quite right effect from a physio-
logical point of view. This stronger effect may, however,
as I said before, depend on the mechanical pressure in
itself. This kind of stimulus doubtless exists, because if
•a rod is made to exert a pressure on a muscle or motor
spot you get a distinct effect, a contraction, even if
nobody holds the rod. The same happens if pressure is
made on nerves and sinews. In all these cases, however,
auto-suggestion cannot be excluded ; on the contrary it
may easily enter into play. But when right results are
•obtained, as here, on subjects who know nothing of
anatomy and physiology, they cannot, at least not the
first time, essentially be the product of suggestion.
Now this increased mechanical sensitiveness in certain
hystero-hypnotic conditions had already been detected by
Charcot. He called it the neuro-muscular hyper-excit-
ability, and according to him it existed only in the
lethargic state of hypnosis. If, e.g., miisculus quadratus
labii superioris on both sides was excited with a rod, a
contraction ensued which drew the whole upper lip and
the nostrils upwards. But if one eye, e.g. the left one,
then was opened, the lethargic state changed into the
M
168 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part
cataleptic one on the same side, the contraction ceased,
but solely on this side and the left upper lip and nostril
retook their normal position.
As said above, this phenomenon follows anatomical
laws much too closely, even the first time the contractions
take place, to allow of an explanation by suggestion solely.
This is also the opinion of many investigators, including
some who cannot be considered as pupils of Charcot. '
What they have not understood, however, is that nervous
effluence can play a part in these contractions.
Reflexes.
But if these phenomena exist, we ought also to find
increased tendon reflexes. In fact, Charcot had already |
found this to be the case.
I have examined the knee-jerk reflex with the help
of Sommer's reflex-multiplicator, which is shown on
Fig. 15. A string is fastened to a band, which goes round
the ankle. The string goes over a wheel at the top of
a support and is fastened to a registering apparatus, by
the help of which you can get the jerk written on the
revolving cylinder, when the sinew of the knee is tapped
by the help of a hammer, falling from a certain height.
The figure shows also a hood, which can be let down
in front of the subject, thus making the covering of his |
head unnecessary.
As to curves, we must content ourselves with observing
the immense difference between the jerk when you register
it on the insensitive side or on the hyper- or extra-
sensitive side of a subject in light hypnosis. Fig. 16
shows that when the tapping was made
on the hyper-sensitive side 4 trials gave : very great effect^
with one excep-
tion ;
,, insensitive 4 ,, ,, hardly any effect
;
hyper-sensitive ,, again 4 ,, great effect ;
when deep hypnosis was induced : 7 trials gave no effect
to speak of.
I
LXXXIII.] Problems of Hypnotism. 169
These curves were taken all on the same side and as fast as
the changing of the hypnotic condition permitted. The
time-marker indicates i of a second.
The type of jerk is also altered on the hyper-sensitive
side in comparison to the waking state : the swinging
tendency is increased.
Electric Irritability
.
This is however not all : the electric irritability is in-
creased in usual light hypnosis and on the extra-sensitive
side, while it is lowered in deep hypnosis. The threshold
of stimulation of the motor spots in regard to the galvanic
current is in other words altered in one direction or
another.
I will give a few figures : the threshold for the motor
spot of m. abducens pollices brevis was found on one
occasion, when shutting the current and when the cathode
was used as stimulus-electrode, to be :
in waking-condition : 1-8 milli-ampere (M. A.) ;
in usual light hypnosis : 1-1
and in deep „ 2-25 „ „
On another occasion the same motor spot needed :
in light hypnosis and on the hyper-sensitive side :
0-25-0-30 M.A. ;
in waking condition immediately afterwards :
0-50-0-55 M.A.
Over a nerve, N. medianus, the following values were
obtained during a sitting :
in deep hypnosis : 4-5-5-3 M.A. ;
in light „ 0-6-0-7
These different values show that the changes in the
nervous irritability in the different hypnotic states not
only stretch themselves to the spinal column (which the
knee-jerk-reflex proves) but also to the peripheral motor
nerves.
Magnetic and Electric Fields of Force.
We have thus seen that when the subject is in a
hypnotic state, where his neuro-muscular apparatus shows
170 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part
a heightened sensitiveness towards nervous effluence, his
motor irritabihty is increased as such. But how about
the dermal sensibihty ? Here the same thing exists.
Not only is the subject hyper-sensitive to ordinary
cutaneous stimuli on those surfaces which are specially
sensitive to the nervous effluence, but he there also shows
a specific sensitivity to certain other forms of energy
which do not usually produce any effect on the dermal
senses. The subject, in point of fact, experiences decided
and specific sensations in magnetic and electric fields of
power (electro-magnets and static electricity) even if he
is kept non-informed and all possible sources of error
are eliminated. We can, therefore, say very generally :
the subject's sensitiveness towards nervous effluence is
only one form or aspect of a very general hyper-sensitive-
ness existing in certain hystero -hypnotic states.
The Effect of the Eye or of the Gaze.
Another factor often used when hypnotizing is the eye,
or the gaze, and, as we know, it has been contended that
also here we have some sort of specific effluence in play.
In point of fact, if really the radiation that is found to
emanate from the experimenter's fingers is due especially
to the large number of peripheral nerves ending here,
then, when discussing the question whether also other
parts of the body than the fingers may represent sources
of this new form of energy, suspicion must naturally
in the first place fall on the eye, as the whole optic
nerve terminates and is spread out at the bottom of the
eye. A priori it can hardly be said that the different
media must render such an effluence outwards impossible,
as we have found in our experiments that materials that
are to a certain extent analogous to them, e.g. glass, do
not act as a preventive screen.
The experiments made prove that the gaze really has
an efi^ect on the sensibility similar to that of passes, even
when conditions are just as severe, for instance when a
system of transparent and non-transparent materials is
used. When the gaze is directed at muscles or sinews
—
Lxxxni.] Problems of Hypyiotism. 171
even through a pane of glass—the corresponding move-
ments take place.
Respiration.
We may now ask how such a function as respiration
i
behaves, especially in the heterolateral hypnosis, respiration
I of both lungs being, as is known, a function which is
unified in a high degree.
In subject No. 1 the respiratory frequency is in light
hypnosis increased from about 14 up to 30-32 per minute ;
in deep hypnosis it can go down to 8-10. In hetero-
lateral hypnosis the frequency lies about 22-24. The
respiration in deep hypnosis approaches the type that is
; obtained in animals through section of the 10th nerve,
N. vagxis. This might be expected, because in deep hyp-
nosis the usual stimulation of this and other centripetal
nerves must be diminished by the general insensibility.
I
The respiration in light hypnosis, on the other hand,
resembles the type observed when iV. vagus is stimulated
—
this corresponds with the general hyperaesthesia in light
hypnosis. In the heterolateral condition you get a
mixture or a medium between the types of light and
i
deep hypnosis— in relation to frequency as well as to
j
type. This is of special interest, as the heterolateral
j
hypnosis with insensitiveness on one half of the body and
I hyper-sensitiveness on the other really represents a state
where deep hypnosis reigns on one half of the body and
light hj^pnosis in an extreme degree, at least as far as
the sensibility of the senses and the neuro-muscular system
is concerned, on the other half.
The Effects of the Thoughts of the Operator and of the
Subject.
My experiments seem to prove that the non-expressed
thoughts of the operator can bring about alterations of the
sensibility, although the effect tends to become generalized,
i.e. the sensibility not only of the surface thought of,
but also of the whole of the same side, is altered in the
same direction.
172 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [pabt i
On the other hand, the power of the hypnotizer to
wake the subject from the hypnotic condition only by j
thought and will has been proved beyond doubt. With I
my three chief subjects I practically never fail in this t
respect. A black cloth having or not having been thrown j ]
over the subject's head, he begins, after a certain time, ']
varying from 15 seconds to 2 minutes, to make move-
ments, stretch hinself, etc. He then throws away the 1
cloth and opens his eyes, generally now nearly fully awake. (
The sittings generally last 2 hours and I make the experi-
ment when I like during this period of time. During 1
my " willing " I have walked about or sat still, whilst :
other persons present have either talked or kept quiet. ,
]
Generally I have kept my mouth closed (with the help \
of one of my hands) in order to avoid unintentional i
whispering. At least 50 such experiments have been made i
by me and all but one have been successful. This shows
clearly the legitimacy of considering telepathy as a possible ;
source of error in all experiments on nervous effluence, |
:
at least during hypnosis. I
'
In all the experiments made to find out whether my '
thought or my wish could prevent a certain effect of
passes to take place, when willing or wishing in an
opposite direction to that which it was expected the
passes would act in, or when willing or wishing that no
such effect would occur, the passes prevailed over this
possible telepathic factor. When subject No. 1 is in light
hypnosis I can, of course, alter his sensibility by the help
of verbal suggestion. On the other hand, this subject can
even in hypnosis only with difficulty and only to a
certain degree lower his sensibility by auto-suggestion alone.
I have purposely made only a very few experiments of
this kind so as not to awaken in him any unpleasant
tendencies in this respect. The important point,
however, seems to me to be that experiments, made
intentionally for the solving of this problem, have shown
that the subject is unable to resist the effect of the
passes, even when he tries his utmost to do so, although
the effect is delayed or weakened to some extent. Eleven
experiments were made, and in all the result was the same.
x,xxxni.] Problems of Hypnotism. 173
Conclusions and Theories.
Coming now to the conclusions I have reached, I shall
try to put forward my views in as condensed a form as
possible.
My conclusions are :
1. There exists a nervous effluence from the human
hody. Other human beings of a certain type and in a
certain condition can be affected by it.
2. Certain substances are almost wholly transparent to
this effluence, other substances absorb it more or less.
It can further be reflected, e.g. against a sheet of glass or
metal, and it can also be conducted through a rod, bent
at right angles or twisted in some way or other. These
results agree with the experiments on the conductibility
of this nervous force made by Boirac.
3. Certain properties shown by this effluence make it
impossible to consider it solely as a form of some energetic
radiation, i.e. as vibrations in a medium of some kind.
This is shown conclusively by Boirac's experiments, but
also by the following experiment made by me on a
hysterical lady : when I or somebody else applies my or
his finger to her skin on a certain muscle, this muscle
is contracted. When the lady is put into hypnosis by
me, nobody but myself can provoke contractures in this
way. Also if I press a metal rod to her skin, the under-
lying muscles are contracted. But if somebody else does
the same thing with the same rod, nothing results
—
unless I touch this third person with my hand. The
subject's eyes are of course bandaged, covered, or kept
closed by somebody, and it is clear that these experiments
can be made in such a manner that the subject by the
help of her senses can get no sufficient aid to enable her
to guess when or by whom she is touched. I once let
a physician present hypnotize the lady and then / could
get no results unless I was put in actual touch with the
hypnotizer. I have later found that Ochorowicz has made
the same experiment with the same results on a subject
of his. These and other experiments, belonging to what
we may call the class of " isolated rapport," show that
174 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [PAET
there can be or must be at least an element of a corpus-
cular character in this effluence.
4. Barety's main results in regard to his principal
subject were, that passes made in the same direction as
the distribution of the nerves, i.e. in a centrifugal direction
for the extremities, anaesthetize the skin, contract the
underlying muscles, and put the subject to sleep—whereas
passes made in the opposite direction produce the opposite
effect. These conclusions perfectly conform with my own.
5. In explaining these different hystero -hypnotic states, we
may first of all say, that the hyper-sensitiveness of all the
senses and the hyper-irritability of the neuro-muscular
apparatus which exists in light hypnosis are secondary
dynamic products, depending on a diminution of the
higher mental functions brought about by the hypnotiza-
tion. The usual inhibitive action of the higher centres
on the lower ones is lessened and the latter thereby get
their irritability increased. Turning to the process of
irradiation, we can say that when we, e.g. make a super-
fluous number of downward passes above an arm and
gradually produce insensitiveness on the whole of that
side, we are really putting that side in another hypnotic
state, deep hypnosis, because the state of that insensitive
side is quite the same as the state of deep hypnosis,
at least as far as the two can be compared. What kind
of state the other side, the extra-sensitive side is in, is
more difficult to decide. It may be some kind of
waking state. Deep hypnosis itself is a state where the
irritability of the whole cerebro-spinal nervous system
seems to be lowered, but how this can be accomplished
by purely radiative and dynamic means is a problem
which calls for special experiments.
6. In light hypnosis the conductibility of the nervous
system is increased, at least in hysterical subjects ;
or,
from another point of view, the intimacy and inter-
action between aU those parts of the nervous system
which are not directly inhibited by the hypnotization is
increased. Let me give a further instance of this. If
you let subject No. 1 open his eyes during light hypnosis
the over-sensitiveness of the skin is diminished, the in-
LXXXIII.] Problems of Hypnotism. 175
creased stimulation of the sense of sight evidently craving
an increased amount of nervous energy, which conse-
quently is taken away or drained off from other sense-
organs. Hypnosis, especially in hysterical subjects, thus
facilitates in a high degree the experimental study of the
inhibitive and dynamogenic processes in the nervovis
system. We may further get to know by the help of
this method, as I have shown, that our organs of sense
are capable of performing more and better work than
they generally do. And we may say that in ordinary
life every sense is subjected to a rather large amount of
functional inhibition from the other senses and also from
other parts of the nervous system.
7. As to the process of hypnotization, I think we may
say that nervous effluence alone, whether from the hands
or the eyes of the hypnotizer, can bring about hypnosis
under certain circumstances ; so also can telepathy alone ;
so also can strong physical stimulation (bright lights, loud
sounds) alone, at least in hysterical persons (fright- or
shock-hypnosis). The contentions of Charcot and his
school, that such fright-hypnosis can be obtained without
suggestion, have by Schaffer been proved to be right.
By suggestion alone we can, as is well known, hypnotize,
but it may be that a nervous effluence or a telepathic
impulse is a necessary completing factor the first time.
I must here say a word about telepathic hypnotizing
and dehypnotizing. As Boirac has already put forward,
the subject generally does not know ivhy he goes to sleep
or awakes—he gets no idea from the hypnotizer's mind ;
he only does awake. It is not telepathy in a true sense
consequently : onl}^ a telepathic impulse, if I may say
so.
In general practice it is probable that nearly aU these
factors are active, as well as others which in an indirect
manner contribute to induce sleepiness or fatigue, e.g.
visual and mental concentration (Braid), repose, etc.
8. As to other statements of Charcot, e.g. the existence
of hemilateral and heterolateral hypnosis, the specific
sensitiveness in regard to magnets and the existence
independent of suggestion of certain characteristic features
176 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part
of the different hypnotic states, whichever these may be,
I am of the opinion, judging by my own experiments,
that he so far was right.
9. As to the experiments on nervous effluence made by
this Society, I do not think it would be the right thing
for me to claim space for a description of them. You
will get much better information if you go to the Pro-
ceedings and the Journal of your Society. However, as
you well know, Gurney inclined towards an explanation
along the lines of a nervous effluence, Mrs. Sidgwick and
Miss Johnson tried to explain them by telepathy. I
should here only wish to put forward : (1) that according
to my opinion these experiments were not differentiated
so far that definite conclusions as to the nature of the
forces in play can be drawn with certainty ; (2) that the
efiect of the human gaze as a special factor was not taken
into consideration ; (3) that it is not perhaps quite
legitimate to put the problem thus :
" radiation or tele-
pathy," because both may have come into play in these
.experiments ; and (4) that what I have called the non-
informed method was not used sufficiently to decide the
question. However, judging from the details of the
experimental results, I am tempted to suppose that a
nervous effluence really existed in at least some of these
experiments. But how far this may have been the case
I am not prepared to say.
Because experiments of this kind can be conducted
with the help of methods and apparatus common to modern
psychology and physiology ; because they can be made
by anyone, once the subject is put in a suitable hypnotic
state ; and because the nervous effluence does not demand
for its explanation so many suppositions foreign to the
scientific mind as real telepathy does ;
just because of all
this I dare to believe that hypnotic experiments such as
I have now put before you will perhaps more easily than
other branches of psychical research be able to command
the attention of science. And there are many reasons
why the attitude of science in this respect ought to be
changed. It must be admitted that science, whether we
take psychology or physiology, is not at present capable
liXXXIII.] Problems of Hypnotism. 177
of advancing in any marked degree the problem of the
connexion between mind and body, taking this problem
in a real and concrete sense. Here science ought to
accept the opportunity offered by psychical research.
And certain signs seem to show that in fact this is
already happening.
Literature, referred to in this paper.
Bakrett, W. F. : Some recent hypnotic experiments. S.P.R.
Jour. 1912. Pp. 178-188.
Chahcot, J. M. : Oeuvres completes. Tome IX. Paris, 1890.
Barety, a. : Le magnetisms animal ou force nemique. Paris,
1887.
BoiKAC, E. : La psychologie inconnue. Paris, 1908. Also in
English. Psychic Science. W. Rider & Son, 1920. See also
his book : The Psychology of the Future. Kegan Paul, 1920.
OcHOKOWicz, Z. : De la suggestion mentale. Paris, 1887.
Braid, J. : Neurypnology. London, 1843.
GtTRNEY, E. : Different articles, Proc. S.P.R. Vol. II.
Pp. 201-205. Vol. III. Pp. 401-423. Vol. V. Pp. 14-17 ;
254-7.
SiDGWiCK, H., Mrs., and Johnson, A., Miss : Experiments in
Thought-transference, Proc. S.P.R. Vol. VIII. Pp. 577-
596.
NOTE.
In the foregoing paper I have confined myself to the treatment
of nervous radiation in so far as it can be shown to act on
the sense-organs and the neuro-muscular apparatus of another
human organism of a certain unstable nervous character.
But apart from this the organs, nerves and muscles acted
upon are in a healthy condition.
Other investigators have, however, as is known, tried to
prove the existence of this nervous radiation on certain human
organisms or organs, also on animals, even on plants, bacilli
and photographic plates, etc., with more or less success in
different instances. Of course 1 cannot enter on all these
problems here.
178 Dr. Sydney Alrutz. [part lxxxiii.]
English readers may however be reminded that Edmund
Gurney attached great importance to the fact that Dr. Liebault
of Nancy later in life on account of experiments made on
forty-six sick children, of which the large majority were
under three years old, candidly confessed the belief that " the
organic changes produced must have been due to a transmitted
nervous influence." His statement is considered by Gumey
all the more valuable as it is opposed to the view maintained
by Liebault jireviously—that the theura]Deutical influence
of hypnotism is always and wholly a matter of suggestion
and imagination {Proc. S.P.R., Vol. V., p. 253).
Experiments closely related to those given in my article
are described by Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., in his book on
Psychical Research (Home University Library), p. 198-199,
and were made by him and Gurney in the early years of
the S.P.R. Sir William states that " any particular book,
or coin, or other object over which the hypnotizer had made
a few passes or even pointed his fingers, could be detected
by a sensitive subject who was subsequently brought by us
into the room, from which the hypnotizer had m the meantime
been excluded and the positions of objects then changed by
us." Similar experiments were already made by Mesmer (see
Ochorowicz's article Hypnotisme et Mesmerisme in the Diction-
naire de Physiologie, ed. by Ch. Richet), and I have myself
made a few experiments which seem to prove that those
kinds of sheets or materials which prevent the action of the
nervous effluence from passing, m some way absorb this
emanation and even may become secondary sources of force,
as in Barrett's and Gurney's experiments.
In this connection may be considered experiments which
apparently reveal an influence on photographic plates. Quite
lately a fresh imx^ulse to this line of research has been given
by Dr. Aigner of Munich.^
S. A.
1 See an article " Eine miaufgeklarte Einwirkung der menschlichen
Hand auf die Photographische Platte " in Die Wunschelrute, Verlag
'''Das Wasscr,'' 1921, where literature also is given.
THE PHENOMENA OF STIGMATIZATION.
By the Rev. Heebert Thurston, S.J.
It has always, I take it, formed part of the programme
of the Society to concern itself not only with invasions
of the individual consciousness from outside, or in other
words with such problems as those of communication and
telepathy, but also with the internal workings of the
human organism and especially with the range of the
influence exercised by the mind iipon the body and its
physical processes. Among the most remarkable pheno-
mena of the latter kind is that of stigmatization. Perhaps
I should explain that I refer, of course, to religious
stigmatization, and that throughout this paper in speaking
of stigmata I mean those physical counterparts of the
wound marks of Christ which are alleged to have
manifested themselves outwardly in the hands, feet and
side of many mystics from the time of St. Francis of
Assisi down to the present day. It is a little unfortunate
that the word " stigmata " is commonly used by patho-
logists to denote the characteristic symptoms of hysteria,
but my readers will understand that I am here employing
the term in its hagiological, not in its medical sense.
Fifty years ago, when the case of Louise Lateau, the
Belgian stigmaUsee, first began to be widely discussed,
the late Sir Samuel Wilks, M.D. and F.Pv.S., dealing in
the Guy's Hospital Reports with an alleged case of
haematidrosis (sweat of blood), quoted a passage from
the Lancet to the following effect :
—" Louise Lateau's
meditations on the crucifixion, actively excited by the
Friday, at last culminated in the flow of blood corres-
ponding to that from the wounded side. Such
179
180 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. [part
affection, brooded over, would naturally enough be
followed by the appearance of the other stigmata."
Commenting upon this, Sir Samuel goes on :
—" This
is certainly a most remarkable utterance to proceed ex
cathedra from a medical journal, for if excessive anguish
can cause an exudation of blood through the skin, it is
extending our views of the influence of the mind over
the body to a much wider range than is generally allowed,
and to admit that such exudation might occur at those
spots where the whole power of the will is concentrated
is certainly propounding a very startling doctrine." ^
No doubt this doctrine will not now be accounted quite
so startling as it appeared to Sir Samuel in 1872.^ With-
out definitely accepting or rejecting the view thus enun-
ciated, it will be my object iii the present paper to
bring this theory into relation with the observed facts
in order that we may be in a better position to decide
how far it can be relied upon to explain them.
Out of some sixty cases of complete or partial stigma-
tization with the evidence for which I have endeavoured
to acquaint myself, we may take for our first illustration
a quite modern example from the life of Gemma Galgani.
She was a young girl of the middle class born near Lucca
in Tuscany in 1878, and she died there in 1903 aged
twenty-five. Her life was written by her Confessor,
Padre Germane, Passionist. An English translation of it
has been published with a very laudatory introduction by
Cardinal Gasquet.^ There are many things in the book
which will probably strike the normal English reader as
incredible, unnatural, or extravagant, and I should like
to add that in certain respects I do not in any way
^ Guy's Hospital Reports (series iii. vol. 17), 1872, p. 219.
^ The earliest to propound the view that the stigmata were the-
physical effect of mental concentration seems to have been P. Pompo-
nazzi in the sixteenth century. It was revived by A. Maury in the
Revue des deux Mondes for 1854. (See his work La Magie et V Astrologie,
1861, p. 385.) Since then this explanation has been adopted by many
others, e.g. by Sir William Barrett in his book On the Threshold of a
New World of Thought, p. 79.
' Father Germanus, The Life of Gemma Galgani, London, Sands & Co.„
1914.
CtEmma Galgani.
Born 1878, died 1903.
Beproduced by the kind permission of Messrs. Burns, Oates and Wasfdioi'rne.
Lxxxiil.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 181
identify myself with the author's point of view, but so
j
far as regards the description of phenomena I have seen
no reason to doubt his accuracy.
Gemma, from her earUest years, had given herself to
! the practices of an extreme asceticism. At the age of
fifteen she fell ill of a " dangerous complamt "—nature
not specified
—" which kept her in bed for three months."
At nineteen she developed a curvature of the spine.
Meningitis supervened, together with a total loss of
hearing. " Large abscesses formed in her head, one of
which seemed to make its way down through her chest
and settled in her side. Then her hair fell off, and
finally her limbs became paralysed." ^ After more than a
year of acute suffering, she got up on March 3rd, 1899
—suddenly, and, as it was believed, miraculously, cured.
Four weeks later, on Maundy Thursday, March 30th,
Gemma had her first ecstasy. " While spending part of
the night in prayer," to copy the account she afterwards
gave in obedience to her director, " all of a sudden I
lost the use of my senses. I was able with difficulty
to stand up and lock the room door. Where was I 1
I found myself before Jesus Crucified. He was bleeding
all over ... I prostrated myself with my forehead to
the ground and there remained for several hours. I
came to myself with the wounds of Jesus so deeply im-
pressed on my mind that they have never since left it."^
A week or two later she had a second vision in
which Christ showed her again His five open wounds,
saying to her :
" Look, my child, and learn how to love."
Finally, on June 8th :
—" Jesus appeared with all His
wounds open ; but from those wounds there no longer
came forth blood, but flames of fire. In an instant
these flames came to touch my hands, my feet, and my
heart. I felt as if I were dying ... all vanished, and
I found myself kneeling, but I still felt great pain in
my hands, feet, and heart. I rose to go to bed and
became aware that blood was flowing from those parts
where I felt pain." ^
' The Life of Gemma Qalgani, p. 39.
4
182 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. [part
This was the beginning of the phenomenon, and her
biographer goes on to describe how :
" From this day
forward the phenomenon continued to repeat itself on the
same day every week, namely on Thursday evening about
8 o'clock and continued until 3 o'clock on Friday after-
n'oon. No preparation preceded it ; no sense of pain or
impression in those parts of the body affected by it ;
nothing announced its approach except the recollection of
spirit that preceded the ecstasy. Scarcely had this come
as a forerunner than red marks showed themselves on
the backs and palms of both hands ; and under the
epidermis a rent in the flesh was seen to open by degrees ;
this was oblong on the backs of the hands and irregularly
round in the palms. After a little the membrane burst
and on those innocent hands were seen marks of flesh
wounds. The diameter of these in the palms was about
half an inch, and on the backs of the hands the wound
was about five-eighths of an inch long by one-eighth
wide.
" Sometimes the laceration appeared to be only on the
surface ; at other times it was scarcely perceptible with
the naked eye ; but as rule it was very deep and seemed
to pass through the hand—the openings on both sides
reaching each other. I say '
seemed to pass,' because
those cavities were full of blood, partly flowing and partly
congealed, and when the blood ceased to flow they closed
immediately, so that it was not easy to sound them
without a probe. Now this instrument was never used ;
both because of the reverential delicacy inspired by the
Ecstatic in her mysterious state, and because the violence
of the pain made her keep her hands convulsively closed,
also because the wounds in the palms of her hands
were covered by a swelling that at first looked like
clotted blood, whereas it was found to be fleshy, hard,
and like the head of a nail raised and detached, and
about an inch in diameter. In her feet, besides the
wounds being large, and livid around the edges, their
size in an inverse sense differed from those of her
hands ; that is, there was a larger diameter on the instep
and a smaller one on the sole ;
furthermore, the wound
liXxxiii.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 183
in the instep of the right foot was as large as that in
the sole of the left. Thus it must certainly have been
-with our Saviour, supposing that both His Sacred Feet
were fixed to the Cross with only one nail.
" I have said that the opening of these wounds was
•effected by degrees, that is, in five or six minutes, begin-
ning underneath the skin and ending with the bursting
asunder. At times, however, this was not the case ;
their opening was then instantaneous, and came from the
-exterior like a violent transfixing. Then it was agonising
to see the dear martyr, thus stricken all of a sudden and
trembling in every fibre of her body." ^
The wound in the side, which was never seen by the
director himself, but by ladies whom he commissioned to
examine it, was crescent shaped. It was about two
inches long and half an inch wide. It did not bleed on
the Fridays alone, but any great emotion was liable to
start the haemorrhage afresh. The quantity of blood lost
was considerable. " Those who lived with and assisted
Jier," her biographer writes, " were ready to declare on
oath that from her side alone came so much blood that,
if not stopped, it flowed down to the ground." But
perhaps the most remarkable circumstance in the pheno-
menon was the disappearance of the wounds. " As soon
.as the ecstasy of the Friday was over the flow of blood
from all the five wounds ceased immediately, the raw
flesh healed, the lacerated tissues healed too, and the
following day, or at latest on the Sunday, not a vestige
remained of those deep cavities, neither at their centres,
nor around their edges ; the skin having grown quite
Tiniformly with that of the uninjured parts. In colour,
however, there remained whitish marks, showing that
there had been the wound of the day before—which would
"be opened again as at first, in five days, and closed in
"the same way.
" At the time of Gemma's death, two years after the
marvel of the stigmata had ceased, the marks of the
w^ounds still remained and were then easily observable on
her body, particularly in her feet, which in her lifetime
^Ibid. pp. 61-62.
184 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. [part
could only with great difficulty be uncovered during her
ecstasies." ^
Besides the stigmata, strictly so-called, Gemma GalganL
was also liable under the influence of strong religious ,
emotion, e.g. when by chance she heard some blasphemous,
utterance in the street, to experience a sweat of blood I
and to shed tears of blood. This sweat of blood, how-
ever, did not occur in her ecstasies when the stigmata,
were bleeding. On the other hand, in March 1901, over
and above the ordinary stigmata, she reproduced also in
her body the terrible effects of the scourging. She had
at this time been given a home with a family of position-
in Lucca, that of the Chevalier Giannini, who wished to
afford her protection from the curiosity of importunate
visitors. Gemma's parents being dead, Signora Cecilia
Giannini became to her a sort of adopted mother. It is
she who gives the following account of Gemma's condition,
on March 21st, 1901, being the Friday before PassiorL j
Week, then kept as a Feast of the Precious Blood.
" Her state was something indescribable—wounds every-
where that must have been nearly half an inch deep.
But after two or three days they disappeared . . . This-
is how they were disposed ; two on one arm from two
to three inches long, and very deep ; two on one leg,
round and about the size of a florin ; one near the middle
of her breast in the direction of her throat ; two very
large oblong ones above the knee " and so on—a long,
catalogue, and the writer added : "If you wish to form
some idea of it, recall to mind the large crucifix that we
have in the house before which Gemma was in the habit
of praying ; she was like that. The same livid marks,
the same torii, open gashes in the skin and flesh, in the same
parts of the body, equally long and deep and equally horrify- '
ing to behold. Blood came from her wounds in great
abundance ; when she was standing it flowed to the
ground, and when in bed it not only wetted the sheets but
saturated the whole mattress. I measured some streams
or pools of this blood, and they were from twenty to-
twenty-five inches long and about two inches wide." ^
1 Ihid. p. 65 • ^ Ihid. p. 69.
LXXXUT.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 185
It will be readily seen why I emphasise the fact that
the wounds in Gemma's body corresponded in position
and size with those of the great crucifix before which
she was in the habit of praying. This evidence is the
more valuable because it comes from a witness who was
persuaded that the whole phenomenon was supernatural,
and who never suspected that she was supplying materials
for quite another interpretation.
By way of comparison with this modern example some
details may be given from the contemporary biography
of the nun Lukardis of Oberweimar, who was born about
1276 and died in 1309. The case is conspicuous for the
touching and poetical feeling displayed and for the Sister's
intense desire to be marked by what the mystics of that
age were wont to call the Minnezeichen (tokens of love).
Lukardis had already led a hfe of rigorous austerity, and
somewhere about the year 1298 she seems to have been
possessed with this ardent longing for suffering. Hence,
says her biogxapher, she was heard in the end according
to her desire :
" For she saw in the spirit that she ought to pass
through a certain door in which she found Jesus Christ
as it were recently fastened to the cross, scored with the
weals of the scourges and most pitifully dripping with
blood. As she looked intently upon Him the servant of
God fell at His feet swooning and almost lifeless. Then
our Lord said to her :
' Rise up, my child, and help
Me '
;
by which she understood that she ought not to
be content with merely calling His sufferings to mind
but that she was meant to helj^ Him by voluntarily
sharing in his Passion. At Christ's word, accordingly,
recovering at last something of her strength, she answered
tremblingly : ' How can I help Thee, my Lord 1
'
And
thereupon raising her eyes she saw His right arm loosened
from the cross and hanging feebly down, by which it
seemed to her that the pain of the suffering Christ was
greatly intensified. So the beloved handmaiden, drawing
near in tender compassion, strove to tie up the arm again
to the cross with a thread of silk, but she could not
succeed. Accordingly she began to hft His arm with
186 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. [PAET
her hands and with deep groanings to hold it in its
place. Then our Lord said to her :
'
Place thy hands
against My hands, and thy feet against My feet, and thy
breast against My breast, and in such wise I shall be
so much helped by thee that My pain will be less.'
And when the servant of God had done this, she felt
interiorly the most bitter pain of the wounds both in
her hands and in her feet and in her breast, although
the wounds were not yet manifest to the outward eye.
It was after this that she formed the habit of knocking
her hands together with great force so that the noise
was heard far and wide as from the collision of two
planks."
This is all so curious that I feel I shall be excused
for quoting still farther. Nothing could more signi-
ficantly illustrate the intensity of the mental influences
which were at work, and which were at the same time
using physical expedients to produce the desired result.
" Also with regard to the hammering in of the nails
of Christ's cross, as she carried the memory of them
inwardly in her heart, so she represented it outwardly in
action. For again and again, with her middle finger,
she would strike violently the place of the wounds in
each palm ; and then at once drawing back her hand a
couple of feet (ad distantiam unius cubiti) she delivered
another fierce blow in the same spot, the tip of her
finger seeming somehow to be pointed like a nail. Indeed
though it appeared a finger to sight and touch, neither
flesh nor bone could be felt in it and those who had handled
it declared that it had the hardness of a piece of metal.
When she struck herself in that way there was a sound
(tinniebat) like the ring of a hammer falling on the head
of a nail or on an anvil. On one occasion a person in
authority, thinking this kind of blow was a sham or a
mere trick, in order to find out the truth, put his hand
in the way. But when she had struck but once he
liastily drew back his hand, declaring that if he had
waited for a second blow he would have lost the use of
it for ever. With the same finger, at the hour of sext
and again at none, the servant of God used to strike
Lxxxni.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 187
herself violently on the breast where the wound came.
The noise that she made was so great that it echoed
through the whole convent, and so exactly did she keep
to the hour of sext and none in this practice that the nuns
found the sound more trustworthy than the clock. . . .
" Furthermore, it should be noted that the servant of
God, before the stigmata appeared, endeavoured, out of
her great longing, to open the places of the wounds in
her feet by boring them, as it were, with her big toe
{sua majori pedica quasi fodiendo)."
No doubt all this sounds very extravagant, and we
may suspect the writer of a good deal of exaggeration,
but the account abounds with psychological touches which
are borne out by what we know of other similar ecstatics.
Moreover, it is plain that the last thing the biographer
dreamed of was to cast any doubt upon the supernatural
character of her mystical experiences. He tells us quite
plainly that these practices had been persisted in for
two years before the stigmata showed themselves, but he,
nevertheless, narrates how the. wounds eventually developed
as the result of a nocturnal vision. A most beautiful
and delicate youth, who was himself marked with the
stigmata, appeared to her and pressed her right hand
against his right hand, saying : "I wish thee to suffer
along with me." To this she gave consent, and on the
instant in her own right hand a wound was formed.
About ten days later the left hand was similarly marked,
and in course of time the feet and the side. We are
further told that Lukardis, " fearful of vain glory and
the adulation of men," hid the wounds by wearing some-
thing in the nature of gloves, but that afterwards she
was supernaturally admonished to allow the marks to be
seen " for the glory of God and the devotion of the
faithful." The wounds, as in the case of many other
stigmatics, bled regularly on Fridays, but not seemingly
on other days. This would seem to be the earhest
example in which we have definite mention of periodic
bleeding.1
^ See the Life of Lukardis in the Analecta Bollandiana, vol. xviii.
pp. 314-317, and cf. pp. 322, 328, 353.
188 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J
.
[part
One other illustration may be given from a case which
was going on in England until quite recently. The
following brief extracts are taken from certain notes
which have been regularly kept from week to week by
the girl's confessor. She is not a nun, but a simple,
good girl in humble life, and, except for her own parents
and her own person, the phenomenon, I understand, has been
kept secret from all others in the place where she lives.
At the same time I am satisfied of the accuracy and
good faith of the record which I quote :
May 5th, 1916. On the morning of this day, Jesus Christ
(as she believed) came to her after Holy Communion, and
said :
" Prepare yourself, my little child, for to-day I come to
crucify you. You shall not receive the wounds—that cannot
be at present ; but take courage, I await you on Calvary,
and there you shall have aU the pains your Jesus suffered
on the cross."
That evening she was crucified, but there were no external
bleedings. Ecstasy accompanied the suffering, which was very
great. The slightest touch upon the palms or back of the
hands caused her to wince, though otherwise the alienation of
the senses was complete . . .
April 6th, 1917 (Good Friday). On this occasion, bleeding
in the hands and feet took place, but so alarmed was she on
adverting to what had happened that she begged our Lord
to take all external marks away, and He did so.
June 29th, 1917 (Friday). Stigmata—on the palms were
two great red patches (the backs were normal) from which
blood had flowed in fair abundance—sufficient to form a
patch upon the floor of her room (whereon she lay in
ecstasy) about the size of a florin. On the soles of her feet
too (red on the upper parts) were marks of blood, similar to
the j^atches on the palms of the hands.
July 13th, 1917 (Friday.) Stigmata. On this occasion there
were two large spots on the ]3alm and the back of the hands
—about the size of half-a-crown on the backs, larger on the
palms. The feet bore similar marks on both sole and instep.
A7ig. 10th, 1917. The wounds in the hands and feet were
as usual, but this time more ]:)ronounced, suggesting the idea
xxxxin.] The Phenomena of Stigmafization. 189
of having been caused by nails, though the skin was not
broken. The blood had oozed through the pores in such a
way as to form a ring—miniature crater—in the centre and
had spread thence over a surface quite the size of half a
cro^^'n. [The confessor added in a note :
'
I have only once
seen the skin broken, I have seen it tender often.']
Nov. 23rd. 1917. Crucifixion. On this occasion she went
through the different scenes of the Sacred Passion, personating
(so to speak) our Blessed Lord, suffering, as He suffered,
blows, wounds, etc. She suffered also the lance-thrust, and
bled copiously at the side . . .
March 29th, 1918. Good Friday. Stigmata more pro-
nounced than ever before. At mid-day she had her hands
raised over her head, in them two great wounds which had
bled, the flow of blood having been very copious. Her
fingers were contracted—the arms were stiff and hard ; her
legs were drawn up, one foot over the other, and in them
also were two wounds. On her face was a look of greatest
agony. While I was present she came out of ecstasy for a
while and tried to put out her hand to me. She could not.
It was as if nailed there. She had been like that since
about 11.30 or so. I left her about 12.45 and saw her again
shortly after 2. She was still in the same position and once
more in ecstasy . . . Shortly after 3 one arm came down
to her side—then the other—her body relaxed and she came
to herseK. On this occasion she suffered the wound in the
side and bled there. ^
The first question which is naturally suggested by these
descriptions, and by a multitude of other similar cases
which might be quoted, is " Are the facts reliable ?
"
" Can we be assured that the writers are not romancing
or exaggerating ?
"'
I venture to think that any investigator who will
study the evidence carefully and compare case with case will
in the end have his suspicions allayed—at any rate, so far
as regards the phenomenon of the bleeding. Undoubtedly
there have been impostors. It would be easy to quote
details of several cases if there were any object in doing
' I have since learned that these manifestations have now entirely
ceased. ...
190 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. [part
so. It also occasionally happens that fraud seems to be
indicated even when the phenomena are genuine. Gemma
Galgani, partly, I think, from an exaggerated sense of
modesty—when quite a child she would not allow her
own father to kiss her—had a horror of being examined
by doctors. She told her first confessor, Mgr. Volpi,
that if he sent a doctor to examine her, the doctor
would see nothing. The confessor persisted, and the
doctor came one Friday when Gemma was in ecstasy
and the stigmata were already bleeding. " The doctor took
a towel, dipped it in water, and wiped Gemma's hands
and forehead. The blood immediately disappeared and
the skin showed no signs of cicatrix, scratch or puncture^
as if there had never been any laceration." ^
For a while the gravest suspicion of fraud naturally
rested on the whole of these manifestations ; but the
stigmata still continued to appear and bleed on Fridays.
In fact, unless we are prepared to involve the biographer
himself, reputed a most saintly man, together with a
group of ecclesiastics including two archbishops, as also
the highly respectable Giannini family, with a number of
other persons, amongst whom Cardinal Gasquet, in a
bonspiracy of imposture, I do not see how we can
set aside the evidence. In the presence of such an
account as that given by the Archbishop of Camerino, it
seems to me that there is no middle term between either
accepting the story as substantially accurate or accusing
the writer of deliberate falsehood.
^
So again in the case of Padre Pio of Foggia we have
the suspicious circumstance that Dr. A. Bignami, Professor
^ Life of Gemma Galgani, p. 85. It should be noticed, see above,
p. 4, that the Director himself says that though more commonly the
laceration was very deep, on some occasions it was scarcely perceptible
to the naked eye {Gemma Galgani, p. 62).
^ Life, pp. 89-90: '"I went to her room with Don Lorenzo Agrimonti
and beheld her in ecstasy. I remained in the room for more than
two hours and a half, being determined not to leave until I had seen
at least the flow of blood with my own eyes. . . . After an hour
she began to shed blood from her head in such abundance that the
pillows and sheets were soaked with it."" So wrote Father Peter Paul,
afterwards Archbishop of Camerius, in 1901, shortly after the incident.
i-xxxiii.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization . 191
of General Pathology in the University of Rome, found
the scars in his hands and feet stained with iodine.
Padre Pio, however, who, as one learns from every side,
is the most humble and simple of men, shrinking from
the notice and veneration which the wounds in his hands
and feet have brought him, had enquired of a brother
Capuchin what a person could do to stop the exudation
of blood from a wound, and was told to use iodine.
So far from making any display of the stigmata, it is
with the greatest possible difficulty that the devout
pilgrims who travel to Foggia can find any means of
gratifying their curiosity. The marks can ordinarily be seen
only by stealth or subterfuge. Professor Bignami, who writes
as an agnostic, rejects the hypothesis of conscious fraud,
believing it incompatible with the impression of sincerity
which results from any personal intercourse with Padre
Pio. He describes the marks as due to neurotic necrosis
of the skin, but is puzzled by their symmetrical arrange-
ment, thinking, however, that this may be due to a
phenomenon of auto-suggestion. The stigmata were not
bleeding on the day he paid his visit. The interest of
Padre Pio's case lies in the fact that it seems to be the
only well attested example of complete stigmatization in
a male subject since the time of St. Francis. But it
must be admitted that even in this instance the lesions
are apparently confined to the epidermis, and though
clearly marked, are of a very slight character. Wlien
Dr. George Festa, a distinguished Catholic doctor of
Rome, saw him four months later (November, 1919) and
subjected him to a thorough medical examination, he
found that there was a considerable and continuous
discharge of sanguino -serous fluid from the wound in the
breast. Though the use of the iodine had been discon-
tinued, the lesions were still there and even more clearly
marked than at the visit of Professor Bignami.
^
* I have also had accounts of the case from two eye-witnesses. One
of these, Mgr. Kenealy, Archbishop of Simla, visited Foggia in the
svunmer of 1920. Being himself a Capuchin and a prelate, he was
able to exercise a certain authority over the young Father (he is now
thirty-four years of age), but Padre Pio, after allowing his hands to
192 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J
.
[part
But we have not, of course, to depend for our evidence
of the reahty of this phenomenon of stigmatization upon
the reports of cases occurring at the present day. Far
more remarkable examples have been recorded in past
ages. In the canonization of Santa Maria Francesca
delle Cinque Piaghe her confessor. Padre Nitti, deposed
on oath that he had seen her stigmata many times
{moltissime volte) during Lent, and that the perforation
of her hands was such that he had made his index finger
and his thumb meet through the hole. Saint Veronica
Giuliani was subjected to an official examination by her
bishop, Mgr. Eustachi, and the functionaries of the
Inquisition. The phenomena which she exhibited in
response to the tests imposed by Father Crivelli were of
a nature highly suggestive of hypnotic , influence. For
example, the stigmata seemed always to open and bleed
at his command. Then, in the presence of himself and
the Bishop, the wounds closed and reunited while they
ivaited. " The wound," says the biographer, following the
sworn statements made in the process, " was completely
healed and covered with natural skin like the rest ; the
only thing which was left to mark the spot being a very
slight discolouration." ^
be examined, begged so piteously to be excused from any further
inquisition, that the Archbishop felt he could not insist ; still his testi-
mony as to the reality of the wound-marks in the hands, which are
always hidden from view by mittens, is positive. My other informant,
a lady, who was able to obtain a momentary view of the palms of
the hands during Padre Pio's Mass, paid her visit to Foggia during
the April of this year, 1921. I am further indebted to the kindness
of the Archbishop of Simla for copies of the two medical reports referred
to above. All the witnesses agree that the marks appeal V>oth in
the palm and back of the hands, that they are circular and a little
more than two centimetres in diameter—" about the size of half-a-
crown. " They are reddish -brown in colour and sharply marked ofl
from the surroimding skin which is perfectly normal and without any
sign of inflammation. A dark-looking scab covers the wounds which
detaches itself piecemeal from time to time. Exactly similar lesions
appear in the instep and sole of each foot. The wound in the breast
is cruciform, and on the left side. The bleeding is not periodic, but
there seems to be a continuous exudation of sanguino-serous fluid
from all the woimds especially from the breast.
' Salvatori, Life of S. Veronica Giuliani (Oratorian Trans.), p. 161.
ZLXXxni.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization
.
193
Again, in the first years of the sixteenth century, at
the instance of Duke Hercules d'Este of Ferrara, a strict
investigation was made of the case of Saint Lucia di
Narni. Her hands, on the Thursday, were enveloped in
gloves and sealed up in such a way that she could not
chafe or puncture the surface. Nevertheless, when the
seals, which remained intact, were broken on the Friday
afternoon, and the gloves were removed, her hands were
found to have bled as usual.^
The same glove experiment was tried with Louise
Lateau, but Dr. Warlomont, being dissatisfied with the
test, as he thought that friction might still be employed
through the glove, had an apparatus constructed in the
nature of a glass cylinder. In this Louise's arm was
sealed up, it being absolutely impossible for her in any
way to get at the hand so imprisoned. There was no
sign of bleeding when the hand was inserted on Thursday,
21st January, 1875, but on the Friday when the apparatus
was examined in the presence of medical witnesses, some
of them anti-clericals and up to that time quite sceptical,
the hand was found to have bled.^ The Belgian
Academy of Medicine in consequence passed a resolutiou
affirming the reality of the phenomenon, though several
of the members still rejected any supernatural interpretation.
But perhaps one of the most satisfactory cases I have
<!ome across from an evidential point of view is that of
Blessed Diomira Allegri, a young nun at Florence, twenty-
six years of age. In 1677 she had a very serious illness
from which, in fact, she never properly recovered. She
was so ill that two nuns sat up with her after she had
lain in a sort of swoon for twenty-four hours. During
the night—it was the early morning of Ash Wednesday,
March 3rd, 1677—a change came over her. She thrust
1 Duke Hercules makes himself guarantee for the whole in a letter
printed in a contemporarj' brochure Spiritualium Persona rum Facta
admiratione digna, of which there is more than one copy in the British
Mu.seum. Cf. Dr. Edmund Gardner's Dukes and Poets in Ferrara,
pp. 366-381.
^Warlomont, Louise Lateau—Rapport Medical, Bruxelles, 187.5, [ip.
39-45.
194 Rev. Herhert Thurston, S.J. [part
out her right hand, crying " fermate, fermate," then her
left, so that she lay with both arms at right angles to
her body, the fingers, with a sort of convulsive movement,
being bent back to the palms. Between the fingers they
saw a trickle of blood, and the two watchers thought the
gesture so extraordinary that one of them went to rouse
two other nv^ns who slept close by. Meanwhile she
pulled up one leg, then the other, into the attitude of
the figure of Christ on the cross. Finally, seeming to
be suffering great anguish in the side, she brought back
one hand for a moment to lift the clothes off it, saying,
" non piu, non piu, Gesu mio." Then she lay still,,
almost like one dead, for three hours, but after that she
seemed to revive, looked at her hands, saw them bleeding
and hastily hid them under the clothes. The confessor
was fetched to bring her communion, and he ordered her
under obedience to allow one of the sisters to examine
her, he himself having seen the blood and the swelling
in her hands. There were marks on the hands, both
palm and back, with a trickle of blood. The feet were
not bleeding, but there were round bhsters both on instep
and sole, filled with blood. On the side also was a large
oval swelling, very inflamed.
Now these witnesses, namely the two watchers, the
others who were summoned, the confessor and the doctor,
who was sent for later, all gave evidence on oath regard-
ing these facts in the process of canonization. Some
weeks later, on Good Friday, the feet also opened and
bled, and a little later still the side as well. Diomira
died in the December of the same year. She had never
had any similar wounds before that night when the
watchers beside her saw her arms stretched out.'^
We seem justified, therefore, in admitting the reality
of these manifestations, though hardly any two examples
are exactly alike. But amid a very great diversity in
the character of the wounds, the order of development,
the periodicity of the bleeding and so on, there are
certain features found in nearly all the cases known to
1 The facts <are all detailed in the process of canonization, Sonimario,
pp. 175-202, Rome. 1730.
Lxxxiii.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 195
us in any detail. First the medical antecedents of the
mystic are bad, whether apart from or in consequence of
the austerities she has practised. When there are not
strongly marked symptoms of hystero-epilepsy, there are
generally those of tuberculosis or of a scrofulous diathesis.
Secondly, there has usually been a vivid realization of
and concentration upon the wounds of the Passion for
some time before any bleeding stigmata have shown
themselves. In quite the majority of cases intense pain
has been felt for months, sometimes for years, in the
places where the wounds subsequently opened. Thirdly,
the character and position of the wounds is very various
(for example, some have the wound in the breast on
the right side, some on the left ; in some cases the
orifice is straight, in some it is triangular, in some it
is cruciform, in a few it is crescent shaped, in a few
others there is more than one wound), but so far as
we can trace the previous conceptions of the sxibject
—
which, unfortunately, is rarely possible—the development
of the stigmata follows their previous conceptions.
Equally striking as a concomitant of the development
of the stigmata, wherever we have the opportunity of
studying the subject's frame of mind, is the intensity of
the mental impression. One would think that if any
imagination could produce a powerful physical effect upon
the body it would be such as is revealed to us in some
of these stigmatics. We have already noted the case of
Lukardis. But there are many others, in whom the
desire of sharing in the suiferings of the Passion by
enduring the pain of the wounds was very strongly
marked. How deep those feelings were in those mystics
who, in a state of ecstasy or trance, enacted all the
scenes of the Passion ^ may be judged from a curiously
well authenticated Relazione formerly in the library of the
Grand Duke of Parma :
In February, 1497, a number of gentlemen, twenty-one
in all, assembled to witness the ecstasy of a certain
^ At least a score of them could be named, begimiing with Elizabeth of
Herkenrode in the thirteenth century. One of the most remarkable
•examples was Margaret Parisot in the seventeenth century.
196 Rev. Herhert Thurston, S.J. [PART'
Stefana Quinzani who, it seems, was rapt out of herself
in this way every Friday morning. At dawn they beheld
her completely identified with our Lord in the scene of
the scourging. She stood entranced, her hands above
her head, boimd with invisible cords to an invisible
pillar. The hands and feet never moved, but the body
writhed in anguish. Several of the company used all
their strength to shift the position of the arms, but they
could not succeed. They could not so much as bend a
finger. She stood like this enduring in imagination the
scourging for an hour. Her cries and moans were piteous
beyond description
.
Leaving out much detail, it is desirable to note that
in the scene of the crowning with thorns, as it presented
itself to her in the trance, we are told that no pen or
human tongue could convey an idea of the torments,,
sweats and spasms, she experienced. During the qviarter
of an hour this lasted, she was bathed in perspiration from
head to foot. Then for a space she stood motionless in
ecstasy, and during that interval, if anyone touched,,
however lightly, with a thread {filo) or any other tiny
thing (and it was an experiment which many tried) there
was a return of all the pains and cries and lamentations
for the anguish caused by the thorny crown. Then she
seems to have thrown herself on the ground. " The
right arm," we are told, " is extended as if the hand
were being really and immovably nailed and at once
the muscles (nervi) are seen stretched and tense, the
veins swell and the hand grows black, and just as
if it were indeed being fastened with a material nail
she utters a terrible shriek (grido) followed by piteous
moaning. Then the left arm is extended in a simi-
lar manner to the right, but stretched considerably
beyond its natural length {assai sopra la hingagine siia
natumle)."
After this we have an account of the nailing of the
feet ; the whole body is drawn vxp except the hands,,
which remain absolutely motionless, " just as if they had
been securely fastened to a piece of timber with nails of
iron." And here there appears a red spot on the foot
Lxxxiii.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 197
about the size of a marcello.^ She lay thus for some
time, but we have an indication of the drinking from a
sponge, and after that the whole body is convulsed as
though it were pierced with the lance.
What constitutes the exceptional interest of this docu-
ment is that it is signed by twenty-one witnesses, all of
them evidently men of position, who appended their seals.
Amongst them was a high official of the Inquisition, who
was also concerned in investigating the stigmata of Saint
Lucia di Narni. Moreover, they were not content with
simply writing their names, but each added a few words
of comment. Bonafinus, Archdeacon of Vicenza, for
example, says that he endorses everything in the state-
ment, and had seen it all mth his own eyes, but that he
had not noticed any red patch on the foot. Carohis
Benzoni, doctor of both civil and canon law, also failed
to observe the red patch on the foot. Another doctor
utrivsque juris saw no redness, but he did think the
invisibly tied hands seemed blacker on accovmt of their
swollen condition. Battista di Piacenza declared that he
used his utmost strength in the attempt to move her
arm, and had failed ;
further, he had very specially
noted the redness on the foot. James Figato had tried
in vain to bend her fingers, but saw no redness. How-
ever, a note is here added by himself later, to the effect
that on Good Friday he was present again and had a
better view, and " in particular," he says, " I saw that
reddening of the feet which I had not noticed in February. ^
"
Clearly all this points to the intense influence which
an absorbing preoccupation in the Passion of Christ is
capable of exercising, particularly m the entranced subject.
We do not here find any actual effusion of blood, but
1 The editor of the document says that a marcello was a Venetian
half lira which was coined for the first time by the Doge Niccol6
Marcello in 1473. Hence its name.
2 Gompendio della Vita della B. Stefana Quinzani, Parma, 1784, pp. 55-
68. One may readilj' admit that similar phenomena are not at all
uncommon in epileptic or cataleptic patients and also in the hypnotic
trance. But the apparent elongation of the arms seems to be a new
feature and the " immobility " spoken of suggests something more
than mere rigidity.
198 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. [part
there was the red patch in the foot which apparently
became more pronounced on some occasions than on
others. Those who insist upon the supernatural character
of the stigmata lay great stress upon the difficulty
—
some say the impossibility—of the blood exuding through
the skin as long as the epidermis remains intact. There
may be congestion of the veins and capillaries owing to
a relaxation of the control of the vaso-motor nerves—this
is a phenomenon, of course, which is illustrated every
time a young person blushes—but it seems to be denied
by certain physiologists that any forcing of the blood
through the skin can ever take place without actual
disease. An author I have consulted puts it this way :
" There is not a single example of an internal lesion
which can be attributed to suggestion alone ;
now, with-
out lesion there can be no haemorrhage, since haemorrhage
cannot take place if the epidermis or the epithelium is
healthy, for the very sufficient reason that both epidermis
and epithelium are entirely destitute of blood vessels."
I have not the medical knowledge which would justify me
in forming any opinion on the point. But this I can attest :
that there are a number of cases on record of incipient
stigmatization, which cause congestion of the vessels in
hands, feet, side, forehead, etc., but which seem to stop
short of the actual effusion of blood. As in the Sal-
petriere cases of dermographisme, the congested or possibly
extravasated blood produces an intense reddening, or even
blackening of the skin in the affected parts, but there is
often no haemorrhage. A curious example, that of
Blessed Magdalen de Panateriis (1503), is thus described.
We are told that on Good Friday " she so completely
shared Christ's torments that they were represented
outwardly in her body, not only by action and gesture,
but by the flow of her blood. At the time of Christ's
bloody sweat the blood showed between the flesh and the
skin {pellem inter et carnem) on her forehead ; at the time
of the scourging, on her arms and shoulders ; at the
crowning with thorns, on the head ; and finally at the
nailing to the cross, in her hands and feet. Further, dur-
^ Acta Sanctorum, Auctarium Octobris, p. 174.
Lxxxiii.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 199
ing the crowning, the blood was seen to stream down
her face and to bedew the other members of her body
{videbatiir sanguis in rivi modum faciem aliaque corporis
membra copiosius irrigarej." ^ This clearly implies that
the blood did exude copiously from the brow while she
was picturing to herself the crowning with thorns, but
apparently it was unable at other times to get through
the epidermis. If the statements made are accurate,
they would thus almost seem to imply, first that the
delicate epidermis of the forehead was more permeabl
than that of the hands and feet, and secondly that the
intense local concentration involved in the thought of
crowning produced actual haemorrhage in that part,
though the idea of the sweat of blood, being more diffused,
did not.
In the case of Louise Lateau we know from a multitude
of descriptions by medical observers that when the forehead
bled there was no apparent lesion of the skin. The blood
percolated through, stood there in beads and then the
drops began to run together and trickle down the face.
This moisture, as it showed in any quantity, was con-
stantly wiped off by the bystanders, but almost
immediately it exuded again. Even a strong lens
revealed no proper laceration of the epidermis, the blood
apparently forced its way out through the sweat ducts.
^
The curious inequality between the sexes in this matter
of stigmatization suggests the question whether the
feminine epidermis may be more readily permeable than
the masculine ;
though it should perhaps be remembered,
on the other hand, that haemophilia seems to be an
exclusively masculine disorder. Further, there is no
adequate ground for explaining the haemorrhage of the
stigmata, in spite of its frequently periodic character, as
^ Acta Sanctorum, Auctarium Octobris, p. 174.
2 Dr. Lefebvre says :
" When the bleeding points are examined with
a lens the blood is seen to filter through minute abrasions of the
epidermis. Most of these are triangular in shape, like the bite, one
would say, of a leech, but a leech of an almost microscopic kind, for
these abrasions are scarcely visible to the naked eye." Louise Laieau—
a Medical Study, Engl. Ed. p. 21.
()
200 Rev Herbert Thurston, S.J. [part
belonging to the class of vicarious secretions. We know
definitely that in a certain number of stigmatisees, for
example in Louise Lateaia, the ordinary processes of
nature were not interfered with. It has also been alleged
that the bleeding of stigmata has begun or at any rate
been continued after the age of fifty, but I must confess
that I do not know any instance in which this has been
established upon satisfactory evidence.
On a review of the facts as a whole, so far as we have
been able to consider them in this necessarily very rapid
survey, it may be admitted that although the phenomena
of stigmatization do seem to postulate an astoundingly
wide range for the influence of the mind over the body,
still there is so far nothing which necessitates our having
recourse to a supernatural explanation. Cases of haema-
tidrosis, though very rare, still do occur in ordinary
pathology. It cannot now be maintained that diapedesis
(i.e. the oozing of blood through the unruptured wall of
the capillaries) does not exist in nature. Neither can
we say that the epidermis is always absolutely impermeable
to the passage of blood. Whether the blood be conveyed
by the sudoriferous or the sebaceous ducts, or in some
other way, it does sometimes get through without any
actual rupture of the skin. At the same time it still
seems to be true, as Professor F. Lefebvre contended in
1872,1 that no satisfactory parallel can be adduced to
the haemorrhage from the stigmata. The epidermis in
the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet is much
less delicate than in other parts of the body. So far
as hjrpnotic suggestion has ever produced an exudation
of blood through the skin—and the cases are extremely
rare 2—these haemorrhages have been of the most trivial
character. For the symmetrical arrangement and narrowly
1 See Louise Latmii—a Medical Study, Engl. Trans., pp. 50-100, with
the Appendices.
^ May one venture to suggest that there has been some exaggeration
in these matters. The mythopoeic or teratopoeic faculty is not entirely
limited to the clergy. For example, the sensation produced by Charcot's
" blue oedema," some thirty years ago (see F. W. H. Myers in S.P.R.
Proceedings, Vol. VII., ji. 337) has rather fizzled out, or so, at least, my
medical friends tell me.
Lxxxni.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization, 201
limited area, the periodicity extending over a long term
of years, and for such deep wounds as we read of in
the case of Gemma Clalgani, Domenica Lazzari or St.
Maria Francesca delle Cinque Piaghe—wounds that never
suppurate but heal with extraordinary rapidity—there
seems to be no adequate analogy either in the records
of general pathology or hypnotic suggestion. There are
no doiibt a certain number of instances of blisters pro-
duced artificially by suggestion. Dr. J. Milne Bramwell,
in his standard work on hypnotism, mentions a few, but
he adds : "I have never been able to produce a blister
by suggestion. In several instances, however, I have
seen local redness of the skin appear under circumstances
which apparently excluded fraud or mal-observation." ^
The celebrated case of lima S. treated in 1887 by
Professor R. von Krafft Ebing, offers several interesting
features. This Hungarian girl seems to have been one
of the most suggestible subjects on record. We are told
of her that a sheet of writing-paper bound on her leg
produced redness and a small blister on the following
morning. Also that the edge of a match-box and the
edge of a medicine glass pressed on her forearm with
the suggestion that they were red-hot prodviced in the
afternoon a blister and a brand wound in the form of
the objects named, leaving permanent scars. On one
occasion a pair of scissors were pressed against her flesh
with the same suggestion that they were red-hot. This
left a permanent scar, and the Sister of Charity in charge
of the patient declared that a suppurating wound was
produced which required two months to heal.^ At the
same time we are told that even in this subject " fever
could not be caused by suggestion," and that " the
suggestion of bleeding was quite as unsuccessful ;
simple
red spots (hyperaemia) appeared in the places of sugges-
tion." I confess I get the impression that if bleeding
stigmata have never been artificially produced at the
Salpetriere, at Nancy or elsewhere, it has not been for
1 Milne Bramwell, Hypnotism, 3rd ed. (191.3), pp. 83-84.
^ R. von Krafft Ebing, An Experimental Study in the Domain of
Hypnotism, New York, 1889.
02
202 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. [part
want of trying, and also that any successful experiment
in that direction would not have failed to attract atten-
tion and become very widely known. M. Pierre Janet,
in his book Nevroses et Idees Fixes, gives a picture of
an excoriation of the epidermis resulting from a pemphegus
pustule occurring in his subject "V. K." after a cruci-
fixion illusion. But of a continuous or spontaneously
recurrent haemorrhage resulting from suggestion or occur-
ring otherwise in a hysterical patient imder medical
observation I have been unable to discover any trace.
We may perhaps fairly draw the conclusion that the
auto-suggestion of the mystic—if indeed it be auto-
suggestion—is an immensely more powerful influence than
hypnosis, and ceteris paribus is so far more deserving of
study. However, let me admit that with regard to the mani-
festations hitherto described, the difference between mystical
phenomena and hypnotic phenomena seems to be one of
degree rather than of kind. Very probably it is all a matter
of vaso-motor control, but the fact that such a disorder
as haemophilia is apparently traceable to a congenital
defect in the coagulating power of the blood suggests
other possibilities that have not perhaps as yet been
sufficiently investigated.
We might, then, rest content with the solution that
the wounds of the stigmatized mystic were produced by
auto-suggestion, if the problem were limited to the data
which we have so far been occupied in considering. But
this is not the end of the matter. There are other alleged
phenomena—^phenomena for which very respectable, if not
convincing, evidence is producible, which demand a still
further extension of the range of the mind's influence over
the body. We are informed upon the testimony of surgeons
of note in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries that
in the case of several stigmatized persons the tissues of
the heart, as revealed in a post-mortem examination,
have been found exhibiting unmistakable traces of
tremendous lesions or indurations of old date,^ lesions
^ It will be remembered that tlio blow of the lance was commonly
supposed by mystical writers not only to have pierced the side of
our Saviour, but also to have reached the heart.
Lxxxiii.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 203
which would under normal circumstances have rendered
the continuance of life impossible for more than a few
minutes. Our first impulse would naturally be to dismiss
these statements as mere fairy tales, but they are not
quite so easily disposed of. They rest, in many cases,
upon the sworn evidence of medical men who, though
belonging to a less scientific age than ours, were, never-
theless, experienced anatomists.
Although St. Theresa was never in any proper sense
stigmatized, her history supplies a famous, even if ill-
attested, example of the phenomenon of which I am
speaking. She tells us quite plainly in her autobiography
that she had a vision of a glorious angel who thrust a
long golden spear with a fiery point right into her heart.
^
We have also some indication of the impression this
incident produced upon the Saint in the fact that she
made it the subject of a hymn still preserved to us.
St. Theresa's heart was extracted after death and in it,
we are told, was found a wide horizontal fissure which
may still be seen in the heart to this day. There is
not, however, any satisfactory evidence that this wound
was not made in the operation of removal, which was
performed by unskilled hands.
A better example, resting upon the testimony of several
eye-witnesses whose depositions are still preserved to us,
is the wound in the heart of Caterina Savelli of Sezze.
This is a stigmatic (she died in 1691) who has escaped
the researches of Dr. Imbert Gourbeyre. When kneeling
before the Blessed Sacrament exposed in the Jesuit
church of Sezze in 1659 she saw in a trance five rays
come from the Sacred Host which wounded her hands,
feet and side. She prayed that the stigmata might not
become known, and her prayer was so far heard that no
marks appeared on the hands, though the side remained
open, and blood or serum flowed from it at intervals.
After death, however, the traces of wounds in the hands
and feet became perfectly plain, and, what was most
noteworthy, the heart being extracted there was found
in it a deep fissure of old date. The physician and the
1 Autobiography, Ch. XXIX,, pp. 16 and 17.
204 Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J. [part
surgeon, who with many ecclesiastics signed the final
attestation, declared that without supernatural inter-
vention it would have been impossible for anyone to
live with such a wound.
^
I have spoken at some length of the case of Diomira
Allegri. She died nine months after that extraordinary
ecstasy of the Ash Wednesday morning in which she
received the stigmata. Two surgeons, held in their own
day to be eminent men, made the post-mortem. They
found an aperture in the breast, of which they exactly
describe the size and shape. They found the lungs in a
very diseased condition, but in a part of the organ which
was apparently sound they detected an open passage (of
which again they indicate the diameter) between the
outer wound and the heart. Finally, in the heart itself
they discovered a cicatrix of which they each drew a
figure. To quote the words of one of them :
" Passing
now to the observation of the heart, I recognised that
the pericardium was in its natvu'al state, but on the
outside of the heart I found a cicatrix of a roughly oval
shape of the size I here indicate. It was unmistakably
marked out, both by its texture, which was harder and
more resistent to the knife, and by its pallid colour,
which was totally different from the substance of the
rest of the heart." -
Still more remarkable are the extraordinary things
which are asserted and apparently confirmed by comjjetent
medical testimony concerning the heart of St. Veronica
Giuliani. She believed that the " instruments of the
Passion," cross, scourges, pillar, ladder, nails, etc., were
actually reproduced in miniature in the substance of her
heart, and during her life she even drew a plan of the
arrangement of these objects. When she died, a post-
mortem was performed by a surgeon and a physician,
in the presence of several ecclesiastics and others. A
' The documents will be found printed at length in G. B. Memmi,
S.J., Vita delta Serva di Dio Suor Caterina Savclli, Rome, 1733, pp. 132-
142.
" See the Summarium in the " Positio de Virtntibus " in the Process o
Beatification.
Lxxxni.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization. 205
formal instrument was drawn up, signed by the medical
men and by all present, attesting the actual discovery of
all these symbols. They were quite hard in texture and
clearly defined in shape, and were found in the relative
positions previously indicated. What the evidential value
of this document is I do not pretend to say, but it was
a sworn deposition signed by all present and it was
treated seriously by the officials concerned in the beati-
fication process. The document itself is, I believe,
reproduced in full in the printed Summarium. Unfor-
tunately, I have hot yet been able to obtam access to
a copy.
There are several other examples of the same kind.
To show that the evidence for these extraordinary physio-
logical marvels is not entirely contemptible I would refer
to an account of the shrine of St. Clare of Montefalco
which is given by the late Mr. John Addington Symonds
in the Cornhill Magazine for October, 1881 (pp. 446-447).
Mr. Symonds will not be suspected of excessive ecolasiasti-
cism, but he states after viewing the still incorrupt body
of the saint, who died in 1308 : "I have rarely seen
anything which surprised and touched me more." His
account, in any case, fully bears out the statements
made by eye-witnesses regarding the condition of the
same remains two hundred or three hundred years earlier.^
Then he goes on :
" St. Clare's shrine was hung round
with her refics ; and among these the heart extracted
from her body was suspended. Upon it, apparently
wrought into the very substance of the mummied fiesh,
was impressed a figure of the crucified Christ, the scourge
and the five stigmata. The guardian's faith in this
miraculous witness to her saintship, the gentle piety
of the men and women who knelt before it, checked all
expressions of incredulity. ... 1 have often asked myself,
Who then was this nun ? What history has she ? Is
she a rival [to St. Clare of Assisi] or a counterfeit 1
" But
the problem, suspended by lack of active curiosity at
Montefalco, has never smce been solved. A description
^ Several of these deaeriptions will be found cited in the Bollandist Acta
Sanctorum, August, vol. iii. p. 675.
206 Rev. Herbert Tlmrston, S.J. [part
of the heart, in substantial accord with Mr. Symonds'
account, will also be found, with an engraving, in the
same volume of the Acta Sanctorum, in which St. Clare's
Life was originally printed two hundred years ago.
Even if we accept the deep and periodically bleeding
wounds of the more remarkable stigmatics as the natural
effect of auto-suggestion, can we so far extend the power
of mind over matter as to believe that it can substantially
modify the tissues of so delicate and vital an organ as
the heart ? Or can we believe that in the hands and
feet of St. Francis of Assisi there were produced not only
fissures, which went right through, but also a hard and
horny substance in the form of nails which were clinched
behind in such a manner that a finger could be inserted
between the flesh and the protruding end bent back ?
Historically speaking, there is quite good evidence for
this feature, such evidence as would be considered fair
security for any fact less marvellous.
Somewhat less astonishing than this, but still very
curious, are the instances of espousal rings which many
stigmatized mystics believe to have been placed on their
finger by Christ our Lord in token of their spiritual
nuptials with Him. The late Dr. Imbert Gourbeyre,
who has written two books on the svibject of stigmatiza-
tion, and who was brought into personal relation with
Louise Lateau and several other stigmatisees, was assuredly
not a critically-minded investigator. Still I believe his per-
sonal good faith to have been above suspicion, and he
occupied for thirty-six years the position of Professor at
the Medical School of Clermont. Amongst the subjects
in whom he was interested was a certain Marie-Julie
Jahenny. He had the sanction, and indeed the warm
encouragement of the Bishoj) of the diocese in making a
special study of the case, and he saw the girl repeatedly,
keeping in touch with her during a period of some
seventeen years.
Marie-Julie, then about twenty-three years old, exhibited
in successive stages the various phenomena of stigmatiza-
tion, beginning in March, 1873. These were crowned in
the February of the following year by the appearance of
LXXXIII.] The Phenomena of Stigmatization 207
a mystical ring, i.e. a hoop of vivid red encircling the
ring finger of her right hand. After fonr years' interval
this appearance was further enhanced by the addition of
three black points in the place where the bezel of the
ring would naturally be looked for ; but at a somewhat
later date the circlet was transformed into a pattern of
dots and dashes, a facsimile of which is also given by
Dr. Imbert Gourbeyre {La Stigmatization, II. p. 86).
The first appearance of the ring was formally made
known to Marie-Julie some time beforehand, and when
in ecstasy she spoke of these forthcoming mystic espousals
and declared that witnesses ought to be present when
they occurred. The actual day was named (February 20,
1874), and Dr. Gourbeyre explains that he had in his
possession a letter from her confessor, the Abbe David,
written in January and definitely announcing this date.
On Friday, February 20th, everything had occurred as
had been prophesied, and two days afterwards, says Dr.
Gourbeyre, I received the following letter :
God be praised. Yesterday we had the most consoling daj^
imaginable. Everything previously foretold has been realised
. . . In accordance with the directions of Monseigneur (the
Bishop) I had made arrangements beforehand. There were
fourteen men there to act as witnesses, seven from Blain, one
from Cambon, two from Gavre, three from Nantes sent from
the Cathedral, and one from La Fraudais (the hamlet in which
Marie-Julie resided). At half past eight we had satisfied
ourselves that the wounds were quite dry, that the ring
finger of the right hand was in a healthy state, pale as death
without any trace of a ring.
At nine o'clock all the wounds (the stigmata) began to
bleed. At about a quarter past we perceived that the finger
was becoming swollen and reddening under the skin. About
a quarter to ten blood was running from the upper and lower
surface of the finger, and by degrees we saw the ring take
shape. It is now clearly marked for all her life to come . . .
Monseigneur is full of enthusiasm.^
Dr. Imbert Gourbeyre, writing in 1894, remarks :
'Imbert Gourbeyre, La Stigmatisation (1894), vol, ii p. 116.
208 Rev. Herbert Thurston, 8.J. [part lxxxiu.]
" Marie-Julie's ring remains to the present day. I saw
it again in October, 1891, still a ring made in the fleshy
tissues {toujours fait dans les chairs), like a hoop of red
coral which had sunk into the skin."
What judgment are we to form of these and other
alleged phenomena of the same kind ? No doubt it is
possible to discredit the evidence, which cannot in any
case be regarded as satisfactory. Further investigation is
certainly needed. But can any physiologist definitely
assign a limit to the power of suggestion over metabolism
and the structure of organisms, or is this a case in which
to quote some recent words of Sir Oliver Lodge, " it
may even be found that a few of the things now, and
on the whole wisely, relegated to the ash-pit of super-
stition, will have to be disinterred and reconsidered ?
"
REPORT ON A SERIES OF SITTINGS WITH EVA C.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Introduction :
p^qe
§ 1. Preliminary -------- 209
§2. The Present Investigation - - - - - 211
Chap. T. General Account of the Sittings :
§ 1. The Seance Room 213
§2. Conduct of the Seances 216
§ 3. The Control 219
§ 4. General Account of the Phenomena - - - 223
Chap. II. Detailed Report of the Sittings - - 226
Chap. III. The Hypothesis of Fraud - - . . 309
Chap. IV. General Conclusions 332
Appendices 336
INTRODUCTION.
§ 1. Preliminary.
Amongst the so-called physical phenomena of spiritualism
materialization is probably the rarest and the least
credible. Eminently suitable for fraudulent representation
and at the same time extremely popular with the less
educated layman, such phenomena have attracted but
little attention from scientific men. When Sir William
Crookes studied the materializations which were alleged
to take place in the presence of Florence Cook, the
scientific world was unmoved, except by derision, and
indeed the data that were presented did not permit of
any confident judgment being expressed one way or the
other. Materializations are reported to have taken place
occasionally in the presence of Eusapia Palladino, but in
the majority of these instances the appearances consisted
210 A Series of Sittings tvith Eva C. [part
of more or less complete plastic forms, and not the
rudimentary and crude productions of the medium under
consideration in this report. Similar phenomena have
been noticed occasionally with other mediums, but such
appearances have been usually of a fleeting character,
and few photographs have ever been taken of them.
In the present instance Eva C. is said to have materialized
full forms at the Villa Carmen in Algiers, and only later
began to develop that peculiar form of mediumship which
is now usually associated with her. There is little
evidence that phenomena of this sort accompanied
the phantasms in Algiers, and though Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing has since his study of the case of Eva C. de-
scribed somewhat analogous cases, we are not aware of any
absolutely similar phenomena being previously recorded.^
The elaborate investigation of this medium by Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing described in his work Materialisations-
Phdnomene, recently translated by Dr. Fournier D'Albe
[Phenomeyia of Materialisation, Kegan Paul, 35s.), and
by Madame Juliette Bisson in her companion, though
smaller work, Phenomenes de Materialisation (Alcan), and
the subsequent experiments by Dr. Geley described in
his La Physiologie dite supra normale (Paris, 1918) have
given the case of this medium peculiar significance.
At the time that the English seances took place she
was about thirty-four years of age. She first began
her career as a medium in 1903, and in 1905 she was
giving materialization seances in Algiers, at some of which
Prof. Richet was present. In 1908 she came to Paris
and began to give private sittings under the auspices
of M. and Mme Alexandre Bisson. Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing joined the circle in 1909, and with the assistance
^ In the seventeenth century it is sometimes recorded that hysterica
vomited curious substances. Thus the girl Christian Shaw is said to
have exhibited hair and a substance resembling candle grease in her
mouth which were rapidly withdrawn when an attempt was made to
pull them out (Sadducismus Debellatus, London, 1698, p. 4). Sucli
curious vomits had also been noticed in those persons who were supposed
to be possessed (see Traicti des marques des possedez. Par P. M. Esc.
D. en M., Rouen, 1644, pp. H seq.), and similar accounts abound in the.
witchcraft trials.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 211
of Mme Bissoii began to insist upon those methods of
scientific control which have more or less persisted up to
the present time. For a fuller account of the earlier
history of the medium see the article by J\Irs. Salter
(Helen de G. Verrall) in Volume XXVII. of the Society's
Proceedings, pp. 333-369.
Mrs. Salter's article carries the history of Eva C. up
to 1914. There is little of importance that need be said
concerning events occurring after that date. A certain
number of experiments were conducted in Paris with
various investigators during the period of the war, and
Dr. Gustave Geley arranged with Mme Bisson for a
year and a half's experimental work with two sittings a
week. He confirms the observations of Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing and Mme Bisson, but his detailed
reports have not yet been published and cannot therefore
be examined. In 1919 representatives of the English
Society for Psychical Research were in communication
with Mme Bisson, and in April, 1920, on their invitation,
she kindly consented to visit England with the medium,
the resulting investigation being the subject of this
report.
§ 2. The Present Investigation.
The object of the present investigation was to enable
the phenomena of Eva C. to be studied at first hand
by members of the Society, in the hope that the con-
clusions of the Continental investigators might be con-
firmed and a basis laid for further study of the physical
phenomena, which up till now, with the exception of
Eusapia Palladino, had been somewhat neglected by the
Society, owing to the great difficulty of persuading
mediums to submit to scientific investigation, and also
to the fact that when mediums did give sittings fraud
was almost invariably discovered. As criticism in this
country had therefore been mainly directed upon the
alleged fraudulent aspect of the phenomena, it was hoped
that by the exercise of a stringent control the possibility
of fraudulent manipulation might be still further reduced.
212 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part lxxxiv.]
The time at the disposal of the Society was of too short
a diiration to enable the Committee to make any elaborate
psychological or pathological investigation. To satisfy
themselves as to the reality of the phenomena and at
the same time to endeavour to observe more closely
the actual formation and disappearance of the so-called
psycho-plastic " substance, which the earlier investigators
had postulated as the raw material from which the more
complex phenomena were formed, was the most that
they could attempt during the short time that it was
possible for Mme Bisson and the medium to remain
in this country.
With a view to making all the necessary arrangements
for the reception of Mme Bisson and the medium and
for the investigation of the phenomena, the Council
appointed a Committee of three persons with power to
co-opt. The three original members of the Committee
were the Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. W. Whately Smith
and the Hon. Research Officer, Mrs. Salter. The co-opted
members were first Mr. W. W. Baggally and Dr. V. J.
Woolley, and later (after the ninth sitting) Mr. E. J.
Dingwall. Other persons were from time to time present
at the sittings at the invitation of the Committee.
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL ACCOUNT OF THE SITTINGS.
§ 1. The Seance Room.
The room chosen by the Committee for the seances was
one of the Society's own rooms at 20 Hanover Square,
London, W. The room, carpeted, but sparsely furnished,
measures 15 ft. 3 ins. by 15 ft. G ins., and it was here
that the cabinet was set up for the seances. This
structure, measuring inside 5 ft. 8 ins. long, 4 ft. 3J ins.
wide and 6 ft. 11 ins. high, was placed ^in a corner of
the room, one side making an angle with the window.
Formed out of black casement cloth nailed to stout
laths, it was provided with a roof, and at the sides and
back the cloth was brought under and over the bottom
lath making a solid framework flush with the floor. In
front, a couple of black curtains ran along a polished
brass rod supported in the centre by a hook, whilst
the floor was covered with a black cloth extending 22|
inches beyond the front of the cabinet.
The window was fitted with black light-proof shutters
screwed to the frame, one of which was furnished with
hinges enabling daylight to be admitted at will. Over
the side of the cabinet next to the window was thrown
a dull red cloth, to exclude from the cabinet any light
from the window, when the light-proof shutter was open.
Usually, however, the only light for the experiments was
furnished by a clear glass electric bulb of 32 watts in a
plum-coloured sateen bag. It was surrounded by an
opaque screen, starting from the left front of the cabinet,
and folded into the shape of a triangle, whence the
213
214 A Series of Sittings ivifh Eva C. [part
light emanated. Over the top of this triangle a light
bine cloth was flnng. By altering the position of the
surrounding cloths the light from the lamp could easily
be increased or reduced, and this was often done at
Mme Bisson's suggestion during the course of the sittings.
DOOR '
/SF.'- Sins.
A. A. Controller's chair. B. Mmo Bisson's chair. M. Medium's chair.
D. White light. E. Shaded white light, F. Ruliy shaded light.
To the left-hand side of the front of the cabinet
immediately in front of the screen was placed a small
table at which the observer sat who was taking notes,
and upon this table lay a 30 watt lamp of ruby glass
enclosed in a red handkerchief. The light from this
lamp was further reduced by a camera case which was
placed in front of it, thus preventing the light from
falling directly on to the front of the cabinet. Hanging
just on a level with the top right-hand corner of the
cabinet was a clear glass electric lamp which was removed
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 215
immediately tlie medium entered into trance and was
not again lighted till she left the cabinet at the conclusion
of the seance. An electric torch was also provided
for a closer inspection of the phenomena than was possible
with the ordinary illumination, and this was occasionally
made use of by the observers as recorded in the detailed
report.^
Within the cabinet, immediately opposite the opening
of the front curtains, with its front legs a couple of
inches from the front line of the curtains, was placed
the medium's seat, a somewhat dilapidated but thoroughly
comfortable wicker arm-chair, the lowest part of the
seat being 10 ins. from the ground, the back 2 ft. 1 in.
and the highest part of the arms 11 ins. from the outer
edges of the seat.
Immediately opposite the cabinet and accurately focussed
upon the medium as she sat well back in her chair were
the two cameras which had been kindly lent by Messrs.
Elliott and Fry, of 55 Baker St., London, and were under
the control of Mr. Jarraud of the same firm. We
should like to take this opportunity of thanking Messrs.
Elliott and Fry for their assistance and co-operation in
the experiments, and we desire to place on record our
appreciation of Mr. Jarraud's kindness in giving us the
benefit of his experience in the course of investigations
which must, at times, have seriously interfered with his own
personal convenience. The installation comprised firstly an
ordinary field camera fitted with a 3 B. Dalmeyer portrait
lens which was usually focussed on the medium's shoulders
as she sat in her customary position in the arm-chair.
The second camera was a Goetz-Anschutz snapshot camera
Generally speaking the light was such that Mr. Feilding, who usually
«at from five to eight feet from the front of the cabinet, reported
that he was able to distinguish the face of each sitter if he had pre-
viously known who they were, and could see the medium's hands
outside the curtains, though not sufficiently clearly to distinguish the
fingers. It was therefore sufficient for the controllers, who sat as
close as possible to the medium, clearly to see her hands, and to
appreciate the appearance of a " phenomenon " even inside the curtains
of the cabinet, but not to see it in any detail without the help of an
electric torch.
216 A Series of Sittings loith Eva C. [part
with Zeiss lens which stood a little to the left of the
larger portrait camera. Just behind Mme Bisson's seat
stood the electrical and smokeless flash-light apparatus.
The pear for igniting the flash was connected to a long
rubber tube which enabled it to be placed within easy
reach of the sitters in readiness when required. On
certain occasions other cameras were employed, but un-
fortunately the phenomena were too rare for the
observers to be able to make much use of them. Gener-
ally speaking, the Committee, whilst fully appreciating
the value of photographic evidence, believed that an
attentive examination of the phenomena under the light
of the torch would probably be of greater service than
the taking of a great number of photographs. As it was,
however, there was such an extreme paucity of phenomena
that even had it been the Committee's intention to secure
a large collection of negatives it would have been impos-
sible, but those photographs which were taken included
some of exceptional interest.
§ 2. Conduct of the Seances.
Before the arrival of the medium and Mme Bisson
the seance room was aired, the photographic and flash-
light apparatus set up, and the cabinet and arm-chair
thoroughly examined. Paper and pencils were put in
readiness for the recorder, and the electric torch was
tested and placed on one of the chairs destined for the
observers. The costume to be worn by the medium was
also examined by one or more members of the Committee,
and the Research Oflicer's room prepared for the reception
of Mme Bisson and the medium. On their arrival they
were conducted direct to this room, which immediately
adjoined that prepared for the seances, and here the
medium proceeded to change her clothes and put on
the garments which she was accustomed to wear during
the sittings. These consisted of a pair of dark grey
stockinette combination-tights, made in one piece with hose
complete and fastening at the wrists and half-way up the
back with white thread. Over the tights she usually wore
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 217
a loose black pleated smock of coarse cotton, furnished
with sleeves, which fitted close to the wrists, and fastened
at the back with a couple of buttons. Within the
smock was a small pocket which does not seem to have
been used by the medium and which was habitually
turned out before the seances. These garments were
those that the medium had been accustomed to wear
and had been brought over from Paris by Mme Bisson.
From the twentieth to the thirty-sixth seance (inclusive)
the medium wore over her head a fine black net veil
sewn on to the neck of her tights.
After the tights and smock had been examined the
medium undressed entirely, this operation being super-
intended either by Dr. WooUey and Mrs. Salter or by
Mrs. Salter alone or by another of the ladies present
when Mrs. Salter was unable to attend. The medium
having put on the tights, they were sewn up by one of the
controllers, the medium's mouth, nose, ears and hair were
inspected, the smock put on and her hands held till she
was ready to accompany the investigators to the seance
room. When the signal was given, the medium, still
holding the hands of one of the controllers and accom-
panied by Mme Bisson and the rest of the observers,
entered the seance room, the door of which was locked and
bolted and the room lighted by the clear electric lamp
hanging at the right-hand side of the cabinet. Having
taken her place in her chair with Mme Bisson sitting
exactly opposite to her on a low seat, she placed her two
hands within those of Mme Bisson, who, holding her two
thumbs and gazing into her eyes, proceeded to hypnotize
her. Usually after about thirty seconds the medium began
to moan slightly, her head drooped over to one side, she
sank back into her chair and the trance came on. Her
hands were once more examined and then passed into the
care of the controllers, who sat at right-angles to her and
close up to the folds of the front curtain. The instant
that the controllers had hold of her hands the curtains
were drawn in front, the clear lamp put out, the recorder's
red lamp lighted and the cloths arranged round the bulb
hidden behind the screen.
218 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
Eva's condition during the sittings did not vary greatly
except just before the appearance of the phenomena.
Generally speaking she remained quietly resting in her
chair, there being, however, decided variations in the
pulse rates and occasionally a marked feeling of chill
in the hands, these sometimes becoming quite cold and
somewhat clammy. The phenomena themselves were
usually ushered in by an increase in the rate of respira-
tion, by sighs and groans and often by a flow of thick
white saliva which dripped from the medium's mouth.
The timbre of the breathing changed as the phenomena
approached ;
resjDiration became rapid and throaty ; the
medium struggled and often uttered strident cries cul-
minating occasionally in shrieks. At this stage of develop-
ment, which Mme Bisson usually signalled by saying that
the medium was " prise par les forces,'' Eva was wont to
call upon the observers to lend her aid by urging
the phenomena to show themselves. The sitters were
advised to call in chorus, ''Venez! venez I " etc., and
Mme Bisson urged the medium to give herself up to
the forces which were possessing her. Sometimes the
attack passed off and nothing appeared, but during our
sittings the especially violent convulsions were almost
always followed by the appearance of the phenomena.
The medium would lean forward out of the cabinet and
show, for example, the end of a white object beginning
to form itself between her lips, or she would press her
cheek against the back of the chair, whereupon the sitters
perceived a large Avhite packet emerging from her mouth.
If the phenomena were favourably placed for a photo-
graph, one was taken by means of the flash-light apparatus,
and the cameras immediately prepared for another, if
necessary. During the continuance of the phenomena
Mme Bisson would frequently turn the torch, which she
usually controlled, on to them, so that they could be
more closely examined. As this mode of examination
seemed to agitate the medium and to cause her to shrink
from the increased light, the beam was only thrown
intermittently for periods of a few seconds at a time,
so that really continuous observation was impossible.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 219
After the phenomena had disappeared and the medium
had given us to understand that she felt nothing more,
the seance closed and the controllers assisted lier to
rise from her chair and leave the cabinet. The lamp
over the cabinet was then relit, and she was conducted,
as before, still in trance state, to the dressing room, where
she was subjected to exactly the same control as before
the seance. When she had completed her toilet she left
the building with Mme Bisson and did not enter it
again until the next sitting. Meanwhile the observers
again examined the cabinet, the medium's chair and her
seance costume, when she had removed it, and after they
had finished, the room was locked up and the key given
into the charge of one of the officers of the Society.
§ 3. The Coi^trol.
We have already indicated above the method of control
that was adopted both before and after each seance. At
the earlier sittings, especially at the first five which were
held, the Committee was not altogether satisfied as to
the degree of strictness of control at the beginning and
end of each seance. No blame for this, however, is to
be imputed to Mme Bisson, or to the medium, who
readily consented to the increased strictness of control
imposed from the sixth seance onwards, the medium
being completely stripped and the process of disrobing
being more accura,tely observed.
During the seances themselves the control was excellent
in every way. The hands of the medium were either
held by the controllers at either side of her, or were
allowed to rest on her own or upon their knees, thus
remaining perfectly visible throughout the entire sitting.
It was only upon the rarest occasions that they dis-
appeared behind the curtains, and then only for a fraction
of a second, the controllers immediately opening the
curtains and again taking possession of them. It must
indeed be said in justice to the medium that she
appeared to do everything in her power to assist in the
proper control of her hands and feet. The latter were
220 A Series of Sittings witJi Eva G. [part
usually placed on the floor in front of her or upon the
controller's feet, but on many occasions the medium
turned sideways in her chair, and, asking one of the
controllers to hold her hands, placed both her knees
between his.
The Committee were of the opinion that a gynaecological
examination of the medium before each sitting was not
necessary. Such an examination would have been ex-
tremely irksome to the medium herself and it would
have been found difficult to insist upon it before every
seance. So long as the control of the hands during the
sitting was satisfactory, the introduction of objects, either
by internal concealment or by other methods, was of
secondary importance. In such conditions the costume
worn would render the extrusion of such objects, if there
had been any, an absolute impossibility. The main care
of the controllers was therefore to see that the hands
played no part in the possible abstraction or manipulation
of objects which the medium had previously concealed
about her. This task was, as has already been said,
singularly simple, since the medium made no attempts to
evade the control in any manner whatsoever. Acting
upon these principles the Committee, whilst taking all
reasonable precautions against the deliberate introduction
of objects, concentrated their attention upon the control
during the seance and made no undue demands upon the
medium before and after. What this control in fact
amounted to can best be seen from a perusal of the
following accounts, which have been drawn up by those,
who most often exercised it.
Mrs. Salter's Account.
Report on the method of searching adopted at the sittings
ivith Eva
On those occasions when I was present the method of
searching was as follows :
The medium and Mme Bisson, when they arrived, went
straight into the room adjoining the seance room, which had
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 221
been set apart for the purpose of the searching. Then in
my presence the medium stripped herself entirely and stood
with her arms extended, and hands open so that I might see
she had nothing concealed in them or in the armpits. She
allowed me to look at her both from the front and the back.
She then took uji the stockinette costume, which had been
previously examined by at least one member of the Committee,
and slipped her legs into it, pulling it up over her body.
She then pulled it over her arms and I took hold of the
costume by the neck and looked to see if there was anything
in the way of a thread. I then sewed it up the back with
white thread. Next I handed her the black cotton pinafore
which had also been previously examined. This she slipped
over her arms and I buttoned the two buttons at the neck.
On those occasions when it was expected that she would
wear the j^inafore throughout the sitting, I sewed the cuffs of
the pinafore close up round her wrists, sewing them through
to the under dress of stockinette. On one or two occasions,
owing to the heat, it \Yas suggested that the medium should
be allowed to take off the pinafore. On those occasions the
cuffs of the pinafore were left open but the stockinette sleeves
were sewn tightly round her wTists. When Dr. WooUey was
present, he came in after the jDinafore had been put on and
examined the medium's hair, mouth, ears, etc. When Dr.
Woolley was not present, I made this examination myself.
In dressing her hair the medium Avore nothing but a few
ordinary metal hairpins, and two small side-combs. I examined
these more than once and found nothing unusual about them.
After the pinafore had been put on, the medium's hands w^ere
examined front and back, to see if there were anything in
the nature of a thread.
Her hands were then taken by one of the Committee
—
usually Dr. WooUey or Mr. Dingwall—and she was led into
the seance room and put in her chair.
At the first two sittings at which I was present (April 24
and 26) the medium showed some objection to my seeing her
stark naked, and Mme Bisson held open the black pinafore
between me and the medium till she had slijDped the stockinette
dress over her legs. At the fourth and fifth sittings (April 28
and 30) at Avhich a hairy substance and a hard object Avere
222 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
observed, I was not present, and cannot say what took place.
At subsequent sittings Mme Bisson never came anywhere near
the medium when the searching was taking place, and, as
observed above, I had a full view of the medium absolutely
stri^Dped. She never upon any occasion took mto the seance
room any of the clothing she had \\'orn wiien she arrived
at 20 Hanover Square.
After the sittings, on all occasions upon which any phenomena
had been observed, the medium was taken straight into the
dressing room, one of the Committee holding her by the hands.
I then cut the thread with which the two garments worn
at the sittings were sewn up and stripped the medium. The
garments were then handed to one of the Committee for
examination. The medium then proceeded to put her ordinary
clothes on. During the process of dressing Mme Bissou
usually woke the medium from trance, but she never came
near her until after the strippmg off of the seance clothes.
Upon those occasions when the medium wore a veil, the
veil was sewn to the neck of her tunic after she had put on
the tunic and slipped the veil over her head. It was not
thought necessary, when she wore a veil, to take her hair down
and search it ; otherwise the method of search was the same
as usual.
Dr. Woolley's Account.
On all the occasions when I was present, 1 examined the
oral cavity, ears and hair of the medium.
Her mouth was widely open and I was able to depress her
tongue with a spoon and also to separate the cheek from the
gum to satisfy myself that no object was concealed in any
part of the mouth.
Her hair was let down and carefully felt all over ; after
which I handed her her hairpins to fasten it up again.
At the sittings at which Mrs. Salter was not present I took
her place in the dressing room and carried out the pro-
cedure which she has already described, but it was only after
about half a dozen sittings that the search became as thorough
as Mrs. Salter has described.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 223
In these earlier sittings I do not think that anyone saw
the medium completely undressed, our view being that over-
insistence at an early stage of the series might appear un-
sympathetic to the medium and tend to hinder phenomena.
On those occasions when Mrs. Salter was present I did not
enter the dressing room until after the medium had put on lier
stockinette costume.
§ 4. General Account of the Phenomena.
It must be admitted with regret that this London
series of sittings was singularly lacking in phenomena
of such a character as necessarily to enforce conviction
of their authenticity. Not only were the larger phenomena
as recorded by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing and Dr. Geley
altogether absent, but on no single occasion (save for
one rather doubtful exception) did anything which pur-
ported to be a materialization appear from any other
part of the medium's body than her mouth. In the
investigations which had been previously conducted, the
flat pseudo-hands and heads not only appeared spon-
taneously, but left the neighbourhood of the medium,
and showed themselves at the parting of the curtains
or at a distance from her in the cabinet. Again,
the full form phantasm, described and photographed by
Mme Bisson and Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, never appeared,
and upon no single occasion did we have the opportunity
of studying the fully developed and life-like human
hands which have been noticed by former investigators.
This paucity of phenomena made the task of judging
the case impartially by no means easj^ This was all the
more unfortunate, since it had been hoped that the series
of sittings held by the Society would have definitely
established the validity of the phenomena concerning
which grave doubts had been expressed. Circumstances,
however, prevented us from attaining the wished-for
goal, although it is doubtful whether the fault was our
own, or arose from other causes. Mme Bisson rather
inclined to the view that our mentality was unfavourable,
and seemed to imagine that the Committee was thinking of
224 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
nothing but fraud, and the possibilities of trickery. Such
an opinion was manifestly based on a misapprehension which,
however, we foxnid it difficult to dispel. Whatever may '
have been the reasons for the meagre character of the t
phenomena, they attained a certain degree of variety,
and now and then were of an extremely interesting kind.
The saliva, which was copious and very white, was difficult
sometimes to distinguish from the '
substance '
which
often much resembled it although in a more solidified
form. According to Mme Bisson, the appearance of the
'
substaiace,' which she regards as the materialized basis
from which the formations are gradually built up, is
often preceded by the flow of normal, although peculiarly
thick, white saliva from the medium's mouth. The
'
substance '
itself, however, according to the earlier
experimenters, does not only proceed from the medium's
mouth, but also from the other bodily orifices and occa-
sioiiially also from the fingers, the neck and the back.
In our own experiments we had unfortunately no clear
evidence of this.
The phenomena proper may be roughly divided into
twelve groups which could, if desired, be again sub-
divided into various categories. These groups may
conveniently be arranged thus :
—
I. Small spots and patches of seemingly luminous
substance which appeared on various parts of
the medium's body. E.g. April 26, 4.50 p.m. ;
May 17, 10.2 p.m.
11. White objects of indeterminate shape. E.g. May 6,
6.13 p.m. ;
May 10, 6.30 p.m. ; June 21, 10.57
p.m.
III. Flat whitish, yellowish or greyish disc-like objects,
which usually showed themselves at the medium's
mouth or adhering to various parts of her face.
E.g. June 11, 11.21 p.m. ; June 21, 11.20 p.m.
IV. Vague masses of soft, white substance closely
resembling cream cheese. E.g. June 5, 6.3 p.m.
These seemed occasionally semi-liquid and may
possibly have been sometimes saliva. Cf. April 30,
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 225
6.18 p.m.; May 31, 6.40 p.m. ; Jmie 2, 6.14 p.m.;
June 24, 10.40 p.m., etc.
V. Black substance like black thread on the medium's
tongue. E.g. June 5, 5.46 p.m. A dark fibrous
substance, April 28, 5.52 p.m.
VI. White pointed objects, hard to the touch and
generally protruding from the medium's mouth.
Occasionally these objects resembled fingers, and
rough nail marks were sometimes visible. E.g.
May 28, 5.48 p.m. (on this occasion the object
was seen sticking out of the mouth through the
veil) ; June 2, 6.15 p.m. ; June 5, 5.15 p.m. ;
June 26, 7.45 p.m.
VII. Dark coloured membranes and pieces of material
resembling thick dark skin appearing in the
medium's mouth and in her hands. E.g. April 28,
6.7 p.m. ; June 21, 11.35 p.m. ; June 24, 10.47
p.m. ; June 26, 6.33 p.m. and 7.49 p.m.
VIII. Roughly drawn flat faces as if sketched in black
or coloured crayons. E.g. May 21, 7.30 p.m. ;
June 21, 11.21 p.m. Cf. also June 16, 9.35 p.m.
IX. Flat faces more perfectly formed than those
above, resembling photographs, and sometimes
. coloured. E.g. on April 28 the photograph
showed a female face surrounded by thick fibrous
hair. Again on May 10 the photograph showed
a similar face, though this time of a child and
apparently joined to a white hand. Cf. June 26,
6.37 p.m.
X. Small white flat hands of varying sizes. E.g.
April 26 and May 10, 6.37 p.m.
XI. A cold breeze. June 26, 6.5 p.m.
XII. A touch through the curtain. May 25, 5.20 p.m.
Q
CHAPTER II.
DETAILED REPORT OF THE SITTINGS.
Seance I.
April 23, 1920.
[This was a preliminary sitting, its object being to accustom
the investigators to the general conditions obtaining at the
seances of Eva C. The medium was neither undressed nor
examined and no rigid system of control was exercised.j
Present. Mme Bisson, Dr. WooUey, the Hon. E. Feilding and
Mrs. Feilding, Mr. Whately Smith, Mr. Beaufort (of Messrs.
Elliott & Fry) and Mr. Jarraud (the photograjjliic operator).*
CoJSTTROL. W. S. on right of medium and W. on left. Mme
B. on this as on all subsequent sittings sat exactly
opposite the medium and the opening cf the curtains.
[The seance began at 5.55 p.m. Mme B. hypnotized the
medium, the white light was put out leaving only the
clear glass electric light covered with a red cloth. The
medium's hands remain always visible to W. S. and W.
and are held intermittently by Mme B. The latter
continually looks through the partially opened curtains.]
1 Throughout the reports Mme B. =Mme Bisson, Mrs. F. =Mrs.
Feilding, W. =Dr. Woolley, F. =Mr. Feilding, W.S. =Mr. Whately Smith.
The abbreviations for the names of other sitters will be indicated as
they are introduced.
F. when present habitually sat at the small table and took notes
except when otherwise stated.
The notes consist of current comments, dictated by the controllers
or given in reply to questions by the note-taker. Much was seen later to
be of no real importance, but it is reproduced for the sake of com-
pleteness.
226
[part lxxxiv.] a Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 227
6.9 p.m. W. holds medium's left hand and W. S. her
right.
6.15 p.m. Mme B. takes both the medium's hands.
6.20 p.m. Hands remain free. Medium says that she
feels nothing. The magnesium flash is tried
and two photograjihs are taken. The seance
closes.
Seance II.
Avril 24, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. F., Mrs. Salter (Mrs. S.), F., W.,
W. S., IVIr. Beaufort and the operator.
Control. Mrs. S. and W. superintended the control both
before and after the sitting. During the seance W. S.
was on the right of medium and W. on left.
[The seance began at 4.10 p.m. The white light behind
the screen was shaded by the cloth being arranged round
it, and F. records that he can see medium's hands quite
plainly at a distance of about eight feet.]
4.15 p.m. A few drops of phosphorescent matter come
from medium's mouth and run down the
left side. They form a small puddle in
her lap and then appear to lose their
luminosity. More drops then appear from
the mouth and run down the left arm.
Since the matter first appeared W. S. has
been holding medium's right hand and
Mrs. S. says that both hands have been
continuously visible.
4.26 p.m. The stuff is still quite visible on the lap
and arm.
4.30 p.m. At Mme B.'s request a slight reduction of
light is made. W. S. says that change is
hardly noticeable except within the cabinet.
F. records at this stage:
—"The light is
sufficient for me to be able to write straight
228 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
and see the words I write but not to read
them. I can recognize everyone in the
room."
4.38 p.m. Nothing further visible. Hands as before,
left hand holding curtain visible on knee
and W. S. holding right hand. Mme. B.
says that she has seen a few luminous
points inside the cabinet, and that it is a
good sign. No one else has seen them.
4.45 p.m. Mme B. takes both the medium's hands for
a moment, and then they remain spread out
and visible on the knees.
5.7 p.m. Mme B. says that the light still falls too
strongly on the medium's face, and dimin-
ishes it by arranging the cloth over the
screen. F. reports :
—" The light is sensibly
less, but I can still see the hands quite
plainly from where I am." W. and W. S.
now have the hands of the medium which
they began holding when Mme B. rose.
5.20 p.m. Medium says that the '
general fluid ' is very
good and favourable, and Mme B. asks
that if possible the same sitters should be
retained until the phenomena begin to
appear.
5.30 p.m. Seance closes.
Remarks on Seance II.
This was the first sitting in which matter seeming
to possess a luminosity of its own appeared from the
medium's mouth. Subsequent experiments showed that
this was not the case, and that the saliva was not
actually phosphorescent. Although throughout the sittings
the medium continued to produce what seemed to be an
unnaturally thick foamy saliva, analysis showed that its
constituents were the same as ordinary saliva and no
chemical difference was detected in it.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 220
Seance III.
April 26, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. F., Mrs. S., F., W., W. S., IVIr.
Beaufort and the operator.
Control. As at seance II.
[The seance began at 4.20 p.m., the medium being
hypnotized by Mme B., and then as in all subsequent
sittings the white light over the right-hand corner of
the cabinet was turned out, the shaded light behind the
screen and the reader's lamp being left. The medium's
hands remain visible upon her knees.]
4.25 p.m. Medium makes a loud gurgling noise, followed
by squeaks, whereupon W. and W. S. take
her hands and report that they did not
lose sight of the hands before they took
them.
4.26 p.m. Medium opens curtains and shows saliva, which
appears rather less luminous than before,
running down her left shoulder.
4.35 p.m. Light slightly reduced at Mme B.'s request.
4.38 p.m. Medium asks Mme B. to see if there is some-
thing on her left-hand side. Nothing how-
ever is visible.
4.50 p.m. Medium frees her hands, but leaves them
visible upon her knees. W. reports small
spot of luminous substance on medium's
left shoulder. Mme B. says that this is
the real '
substance.'
4.54 p.m. Curtains opened and more of this substance
is seen. It disappears whilst it is being
observed.
5 p.m. Medium crosses her hands and gives them
to W. and W. S.
5.1 p.m. Curtains again opened and she shows a
splash of substance on her shoulder. It
disappears in about 30 seconds. Hands
replaced as before.
230 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
5.6 p.m. Screen again adjusted at medium's request
for less light.
5.6| p.m. Whitish patch of indeterminate shape appears
on left shoulder near medium's mouth, her
head being bent on to the same shoulder.
Note. —^The phenomena that follow were not described
as they were occurring, but the account below was written
out immediately afterwards.
For some time the whitish patch that was first observed
on her left shoulder appeared to be attached to her mouth
and moved about with her head. She worked it about
with her mouth, lifting, replacing, and shaking it as a
dog would. Mme B. said that she wanted it to form
into a head, but the medium said that it would be a
hand. Presently she left it on her shoulder, turning her
head away. It was then seen to be a small fiat white
hand as though cut out of paper. It suddenly vanished,
not appearing to go into her mouth. The curtain was
now partly closed for a moment, but Mrs. S. and W. S.
managed to see, through the slit between the curtains,
the hand fall from her right shovilder into her lap. The
curtain was now again opened showing the hand lying
on her lap. It now seemed to give a series of three
jumps, and landed eventually upon the medium's left
shoulder, being apparently moved by something from
within her dress. During these phenomena the medium's
hands were held by W. S. and W. She now leant
forward to show it more clearly, and Mrs. S. controlled
the left hand which W. had previously held. The flash
then went off and a photograph (Plate I.) was taken.
Almost immediately afterwards the hand fell into her lap,
and holding both her controllers' hands she pushed it
forward close to W. S.'s hand, Avho did not however
actually touch it. The phenomenon now assumed a
different appearance, resembling a piece of thick soft
crvimpled paper. The mode of its disappearance was not
remembered, but W. S. says that he thinks it went into
the medium's left hand and he did not see it afterwards,
liXXXIV.] A Series of SitBngs ivith Eva C. 231
although when the hand was examined immediately after-
wards it was found to be empty. The sitting then closed.
The photograph (Plate I.) on being developed showed the
greater part of the head of the medium inclined towards
the left shoulder. The rest of her body is partially obscured
by Mme Bisson, whose right hand touches the medium's
left, at the same time holding back the curtain on that
side. On the medium's left shoulder is lying what at
first appears to be the plastic model of a left human
hand, but which the observers shortly before had reported
as appearing flat. It is lying palm downwards, the thumb
nearest the neck, the first and second fingers separated,
the second and third being close together and seem-
ingly bent over a ragged piece of light coloured sub-
stance which hangs from them. The fourth finger, widely
separated from the others, is thin and tapering, whilst a
white thread, apparently attached to the third finger,
passes over the fourth and is attached to a flat oblong
piece of whitish substance extending from the middle of
the back of the hand backwards towards the shoulder.
Seance IV.
A^ril 28, 1920. • •
•
Present. Mme B., W., F., W. S., Mr. BaggaUy (B.), :\Ir. W.
K. Towell (a stenographer), (T.), Mr. Beaufort and the
operator. .
Control. The control before and after the sitting was exer-
cised by Miss Newton.
[The seance began at 4.25 p.m. The medium's right
Tiand is held in W. S.'s left and her left in W.'s right.
At the beginning of the sitting Mme B. remarked that if
any of the observers noticed anything suspicious or any
appearance of fraud during the course of the seance, this
should be remarked at once so that an immediate examina-
tion could be made.]
4.33 p.m. Medium makes a squeaking noise.
232 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
4.40 p.m. White saliva is seen upon the left shoulder.
Mme B. says that this is the '
substance.'
Whilst it is being watched it suddenly
disappears having been there only ten
seconds. The medium keeps up an inter-
mittent squeaking and humming noise which
Mme B. explains as indicating that the
phenomena are beginning to develop.
Mme B. is asked if there is any objection
to touching any '
substance '
which may
appear. Mme B. says that the medium
herself will allow it to be touched, though
it should not be seized or snatched. On
the other hand the fact of touching it has
the effect of immediately stopping further
development of the phenomenon. She ad-
vises that the phenomenon be allowed to
develop, that this occurs gradually and that
only at later sittings, after better results
have been obtained, should the substance
be touched. Mme B. further explains that
if the medium's hands are in contact, the
substance sometimes appears between the
thumbs.
4.50 p.m. W. S. and W. hold medium's hands close
together.
F. Suddenly we see a white substance over
the wrists.
W. says it is wet.
F. Medium's hands are projected through
the curtains, her head not being visible.
A whitish viscous fluid appears on her
right hand.
4.52 p.m. W. says that the medium is pressing the
back of his hand against her abdomen to
express that something was coming there.
W. feels nothing.
4.53 p.m. Medium says it is coming.
Mme B. explains that she thinks that pro-
bably the phenomenon is already there
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 233
and the medium says that it is a head.
Mme B. says that she believes the pheno-
menon appears sometimes in a black form
and that it is only later that it becomes
white so as to reflect light and become visible.
5 p.m. Mme B. says that the phenomenon seems to
develop originally in the mouth of the
medium against the gums and palate,
and that it is helpful if she is able to
disengage it with the fingers. Mme B.
wishes however that this should not be
permitted during the early sittings until
the Committee is convinced of the reality
of the phenomenon.
Mme B. says medium hopes phenomenon will
show itself while her hands have been
continually held, which up to now has been
the case.
5.3 p.m. W. Medium draws her hands towards her
abdomen and squeezes them together as
if to try and pull something out.
5.5 p.m. Owing to the length of time of the develop-
ment, Mme B. asks for the light to be
slightly diminished.
The light is just sufficient for W. to see the
time by a watch close to the curtains.
5.10 p.m. W. S. There are dribbles of saliva down the
medium's chest. It appears to be luminous.
Mme B. explains that medium says she feels
that it is there, that it is very long showing
itself, but that it will do so.
To test the luminosity of the saliva seen, the
light is switched out for a moment and it
was no longer visible. It appears therefore
not to be self-luminous.
5.35 p.m. Till now, nothing has happened. The hands
have been visible on medivim's lap the whole
time, held by W. and W. S. —Medium
.... sometimes speaking and sometimes grunting
for long periods.
234 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
The curtains are parted and. the medium's
head is faintly visible in the interior of the
cabinet.
5.40 p.m. W. S. sees a small white patch on the left
shoulder which disaj)pears again almost
immediately.
Medium crosses her hands. Her right hand is
held in W.'s right and her left hand in
W. S.'s left.
5.42 p.m. Hands changed back again.
5.45 p.m. Medium is heard to speak, and Mme B.
explains that medium says that she feels
there is a head there. She does not know
whether it is big or little. She does not
know whether it will show itself. She says
the substance is coming from the navel and
it has to get through the dress fabric, which
takes longer than if it had come from the
mouth.
5.48 p.m. Medium calls out to Mme B., " Don't you
see it ?
"
F. There is nothing visible.
Mme B. says that it is now coming from her
breast.
Medium wants W. S. to touch it, but in view
of what Mme B. had said he does not do so.
5.50 p m. W. S. There are small light patches on her
left breast.
-5.52 p.m. A dark sausage - shaped thing appears in
front of medium's face from her mouth.
She jjuts the back of W.'s hand against it.
W. says it is certainly solid.
Mme B. begs it to change colour so that it
may become visible.
W. cannot see clearly enough to tell what it
is like. It felt like fabric or material.
W. says it appeared like a beard covering
medium's mouth and chin with white
strands at the bottom like ribbon. The
beard disappears.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 235
Some of medium's hair tumbles over her face and
she asks W. to replace it as it bothers her.
5.58 p.m. A white material appears from medium's
mouth and disappears almost immediately.
W. could not see where it went to.
5.59 p.m. W. It now reappears on her shoulder.
W.'s head is right inside the cabinet within
a foot of the medium's.
6.0 p.m. M. shows her face again.
There is a large black mass over her mouth
like a moustache or beard.
Medium asks for more light.
Mme B. takes red electric light from steno-
grapher's small table and puts it in front
of medium's face momentarily. The dark
mass is seen more plainly.
6.2 p.m. Photo Taken.
Immediate!}^ after the flash something appeared
between medium's hands like a tassel of
hair.
W. S. Medium makes W. S. and W. feel her
hair and the back of her neck apparently
to make certain her own hair is all tied up.
6.7 p.m. Something appeared between medium's hands.
B. feels it and says it feels like a soft
veil.
Medium picks up something and puts it in
her mouth.
6.10 p.m. Photo Taken.
W. S. The substance appeared between the
medium's hands and seemed a dark brown
colour with whitish streaks.
W. felt it and it seemed like a dry fibrous
fabric.
B. agrees, as he touched it.
B. The medium appeared to bend forward
and seize the substance in her mouth from
her hands as the photograph was taken.
W. S. The substance was produced twice
more after the photograph was taken.
236 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
[The photographic apparatus not being ready again
in time for these second and third appearances, no other
photos were taken.]
6.15 p.m. For some time medium makes constant efforts
to show something else —the curtains being
apart.
6.17 p.m. Medium suddenly makes a loud cry and a big
sausage-shaped object is again seen coming
from the mouth.
Mme B. says that although she does not
interfere with W. a better phenomenon
would be obtained if he refrained from
putting his head quite so much in the
cabinet.
6.25 p.m. W. S. Small white patches on left shoulder
which disappear again.
Mme B. says that it is all over and explains
that the phenomenon is always marked at
the beginning and the end by the appear-
ance of this liquid.
W. takes medium's right hand and now has
both.
Medium wishes W. to take hold of both her
hands so that it shall not afterwards be
said that the object may have disappeared
in some other way. Sitting closes.
Remarks on Seance IV.
The phenomena at this seance were particularly striking
and might have been much more so had the control been
perfectly satisfactory at the commencement. (See Miss
Newton's note.) The appearance of the thick, dark, fibrous
matter which the camera revealed later surrounding a
small female face was especially interesting although
under the circumstances it cannot be regarded as strictly
evidential.
Of the three photographs taken at this sitting one only
is suitable for reproduction (Plate II.). Of the other two
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 237
the first is merely a blurred copy of Plate II. although
taken from a slightly different angle, and it presents no
new feature, whilst the second is also too indistinct to
permit of a successful reproduction being made. The
plate gives an enlarged view of Eva's head, which, inclined
towards the left shoulder, seems partially to support a
mass of dark fibrous-looking hair surrounding a small
photograph of a laughing female face. The eyes are
almost hidden and from the mouth appears to issue a
ragged streamer of white material which lies over the
black fibre. From the hairy matter and just on a line
with the eyes of the photograph a couple of whisker-like
projections protrude beyond the fibrous mass on to the
left arm, whilst from the lower portion of the dark
matter hangs what looks like a tail or plait of the same
material terminating in a sort of globular structure.
In the second photograph the medium is shewn holding
the same phenomenon in her mouth, her teeth apparently
gripping it from behind and just above the small face.
A part of the streamer now forms a loop, whilst another
portion hangs down in a thick cord-like strip.
Note by Miss Newton.
On this occasion, April 28, I searched the medium in
the dressing room and was satisfied that she was con-
cealing nothing on her person or in the tights when she
put the latter on. But I cannot vouch for anything
beyond this, for I realized later, but unfortunately not
until after the seance had begun, that there had been
opportunities, had the medium wished, for slipping some-
thing down the neck of the tights, first, while I was
occupied in sewing up the back of the tights and Mme
Bisson was standing in front of the medium and leaning
closely over her shoulder to speak to me, and secondly,
when the overall, which had been brought by Mme
Bisson from the seance room, was held by her between
me and the medium for at least a minute before the
medium put it on. I have no grounds for thinking that
the medium availed herself of these opportunities, but I
238 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
realized that it was only possible for a complete search
to be made when two searchers were present at the same
time. But apart from this, I omitted to search the
pocket of the overall both before and after the sitting,
and I was not in the dressing room when the medium
and Mme Bisson returned to it after the sitting.
I. Newton.
Seance V.
Ajml 30, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. F., Capt. Bennett (Capt. B.), B., W.,
W. S. and the operator. W. acted as note-taker.
Control. Before and after the seance the medium was
examined by Mrs. F. and W., who agreed, after watching
her change of clothing, that she did not bring any foreign
body into the seance room concealed on her person nor
did she have any foreign body on her when she changed
her clothes. During the seance W. S. sat on the right
of the medium and Capt. B. on the left.
4.27 p.m. Seance begins. W. S. holds the medium's
right hand and Capt. B. the left.
4.33 p.m. A white patch appears on Eva's left shoulder :
it fades away.
4.53 p.m. More saliva is seen on the left shoulder.
5.15 p.m. Eva says that she feels that the phenomena
are coming.
5.38 p.m. Medium says that the phenomena will occur
on the right side.
5.45 p.m. Mrs. F. is asked to place her hand on W. S.'s,
who is holding the medium's right hand.
Eva gives a series of swaying movements
and leans forward several times.
6.3 p.m. Eva complains of pain in her back.
6.18 p.m. A white blob appears in the medium's mouth.
It is touched by W. S., who says that it
feels like wet tissue paper compressed.
Plate III.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings \vith Eva C. 239
6.20 p.m. It falls on to her lap and moves about. The
cameras are prepared and a photograph is
taken. Both hands have been controlled
throughout.
6.25 p.m. Mme B. says that she can see the object
between Eva's legs. A round white object
rises up into Eva's right hand. It is
touched by W. S., producing in the medium
a sudden spasm and for a moment the
object is lost to view, but it suddenly re-
appears on her chest. A second photo is
taken. (Plate III.)
W. says that he saw the object on the
medium's shin a few inches below her hand
into which it rose.
6.30 p.m. Eva's hands are crossed. She touches the
right side of her nose with her thumb and
. then weaves her hands about as though
producing threads.
[The notes as regards the end of the sitting are incom-
plete. W. S. recorded afterwards that when the " round
white object " came into the medium's right hand, it was
pressed between her palm and his, and he felt something
like a thread against his hand.]
Seance VI. .
May 4, 1920.
Present. IVIme B., Lady Barrett, M.D., (Lady B.), Capt. B.,
Mrs. S., W., F., B., and the operator.
Control. Before and after the seance the control was under-
taken by Lady B., Mrs. S., and W. During the seance
W. sat on the right of the medium and Lady B. on the
left, holding the medium's right and left hands respectively.
5.40 p.m. Seance begins. Lady B. says that medium's
pulse at first was beating evenl}^ but then
became very slow and irregular becoming
then more rapid and now being 104.
240 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
5.47 p.m. Stertorous breathing begins on the part of the
medium.
Lady B. says that pulse has become slower
and more feeble.
5.49 p.m. Whitish streak appears on left shoulder and
disappears after about five seconds.
5.53 p.m. Pulse is now 112.
5.54 p.m. Some more saliva is visible.
5.57 p.m. More saliva again visible. Medium cries out.
6.0 p.m. Saliva flows down front of dress and Mme B.
says that it is the substance.
6.1 p.m. Respiration is 112. Up to now Lady B.
and W. have been holding medium's hands.
6.20 p.m. Pulse is now 104, but very intermittent.
7.0 p.m. Medium asks W. to look at her back as she
thinks that there is something there. He
does so, but nothing is visible.
7.3 p.m. Pulse quiet and steady at 80. For a long
time medium has been quite quiet.
7.20 p.m. Medium says that nothing will appear. Sitting
closes.
Seance VII.
May 6, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., Mrs. F., W., B., F., and the
operator.
Control. Before and after the seance the control was under-
taken by Mrs. S., Mrs. F. and W. The medium was
completely stripped, the investigators being fully satisfied
with the result. During the sitting W. sat on the
medium's right holding her right hand and B. sat on her
left holding lier left hand.
4.18 p.m. Seance begins. After hypnotization the pulse
was 100 and both strong and regular.
4.33 p.m. Medium begins to groan and strain. Pulse 124.
4.40 p.m. A horizontal white blur appears on the left
shoulder and disappears. Immediately after-
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 241
wards it reappears, but again vanishes whilst
under close observation by B.
5.5 p.m. Medium announces that something is forming,
The curtains are opened from time to time
but nothing is seen.
5.10 p.m. Medium says that it is beginning to form over
her hands. W. and B. report that her
hands are wet and slimy, as if moistened
with spittle. It was possible for some
saliva to have come down over her wrists.
5.12 p.m. Medium says that something is forming on her
right shoulder. Curtains are opened and a
white streak, about three inches long, is
seen on the top of the right shoulder.
5.17 p.m. Medium says that she feels it on her neck
and asks for it to be looked at. There is
however nothing visible.
5.34 p.m. Medium again says that she feels it, but on
opening the curtains nothing is seen. Mme
B. asks Mrs. F. to put her hand on
medium's left in addition to B.'s. She does
so for some time.
5.37 p.m. Medium again opens curtains and leans for-
ward. Nothing is yet visible.
5.48 p.m. She presses both her hands (still held by W.
and B.l to her forehead.
5.51 p.m. Mme B. asks W. to hold his right hand on
Eva's forehead, the former position being
however resumed immediately after.
6.0 p.m. Medium becomes very excited. She constantly
opens the curtains and shows her head,
recj[uesting Mme B. to call for the pheno-
mena.
[During the seances, especially just before the appear-
ance of the phenomena, the medium was accustomed to
ask the observers to call upon the phenomena (or the
" intelligences " producing them) to show themselves.
Thus she would often cry out to Mme Bisson, AppelU,
Juliette, a-ppelle," to which at Mme Bisson's request the
R
242 A Series of Sittings tvith Eva C. [part
observers would reply in chorus, " Venez, venez, venez !
"
etc. These repeated requests seemed on frequent occasions
to stimulate the medium to fresh efforts and the result
was sometimes that the medium was fully " prise " and the
phenomena appeared.]
6.3 p.m. The curtains are opened and the medium is
seen with her head bowed and for a short
time her forehead rests upon her hands.
6.4 p.m. Medium says that it is a hand. The curtains
have been opened and her head is outside,
but nothing is visible.
6.13 p.m. A white object is seen on medium's chest.
She asks W. to put his finger into her
mouth to see that she has no thread. It
moves sideways whilst his finger is there.
F. suggests that a photograph should be
taken, hut Mme B. says, " Let it develop."
The curtains are closed, but are opened
again a few moments after and the object
is again seen on the chest, but it is not so
bright or so definite in shape. It disappears
whilst Mrs. S., Mrs. F., W. and B. are
looking at it.
6.19 p.m. Medium seems to strain a good deal and her
respiration is very fast.
Nothing further is seen and the sitting closes
after a long period of waiting.
Remarks on Seance VII.
This sitting was remarkable for the number of times
that the medium seemed to think that the phenomena
were present when as a matter of fact nothing was visible
to the observers. This is qixite a common occurrence
during seances with this medium, and it is possible that
occasionally she sees forms of objects which are invisible
to the spectators. The white object seen towards the end
of the sitting was variously described by the observers.
W., B. and Mrs. S. saj^ that to them it seemed to be a
LXXXIV.] A Sei'ies of Sittings with Eva C. 243
pear-shaped object, about three inches in length. Mrs. F.
said that to her it appeared more the shape of a cigar,
an opinion which may well be due to her having observed
it from a different angle of vision from that of the others,
as she was standing up at the time and was watching the
phenomenon from above.
Seance VIII.
May 7, 1920.
Present. Mme B., F.. W. S., W. and operator.
Control. Before and after the sitting W. controlled the
medium, whilst during the seance W. S. sat on the
medium's right holding her right hand and W. on her left
holding her left hand.
5.46 p.m. Seance begins. After hypnotization the pulse
is 124 and is regular and strong.
6.9 p.m. A trickle of saliva is visible on her left
shoulder.
6.55 p.m. Pulse 116. Up till now nothing has happened.
After a short period of rather stertorous
breathing which occurred at the beginning
of the sitting the medium remained quite
quiet. She says that something is there
and keeps asking Mme B. to call for the
phenomena.
7.7 p.m. Medium says that she does not think that
anything is going to happen.
7.25 p.m. Seance closes.
Seance IX.
May 10, ,1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., F., B., W., W. S., and the operator.
Control. Before and after the sitting Mrs. S. and W. con-
trolled the medium, whilst during the seance W. S. held
her light hand and W. her left.
244 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
[At this sitting four cameras were employed. Mme
Bisson had set up her own camera that she had brought
from Paris and Dr. Woolley had brought his small stereo-
scopic camera.
At the beginning of the sitting Mme Bisson related
how after the preceding seance the medium had been
prise " in the night by an influence which said that it
had been trying to manifest. An " incarnation " took
place, the " control " giving the correct name of a soldier
whom Mme B. had nursed in a hospital. He recalled
himself to her mind by speaking of a white lock of hair
over his forehead which she well remembered. According
to Mme B.'s account this man was quite unknown to
the medium.]
4.20 p.m. Seance begins.
4.50 p.m. Medium is not yet " prise " but she says that
she thinks that something is coming.
4.58 p.m. Medium begins to groan slightly, and the
stertorous breathing commences. This does
not last long however and she soon becomes
quiet again. Pulse 120.
5.21 p.m. Small amount of saliva on left side of cheek.
5.40 p.m. Nothing further happens. Mme B. asks Mrs. S.
and F. to take the medium's hands for a
short time in order to change the " fluids."
They lean over and do so for half a minute,
when the medium asks for the former
controllers to take charge again.
5.55 p.m. Further efforts and complaints on the part
of the medium. The breathing becomes very
rapid. She says that " she feels it and
that it hurts her."
6.0 p.m. Medium says that it is there, and putting her
head out of the curtains says, " Look."
Nothing is visible.
6.3 p.m. She says the same thing several times and
asks to be examined. Again nothing is
visible. The curtains are constantly being
opened and the hands, held since the
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 245
beginning of the sitting, remain always
perfectly visible.
6.10 p.m. Still nothing has appeared. Mme B. suggests
that the controllers should hold the medium's
wrists leaving her hands free so that the
" fluid " may collect between the finger
tips. Medium however will not have it
and insists on fully grasping the controllers'
hands.
6.17 p.m. As nothing has yet appeared, the observers
succeed in persuading Eva to adopt the
wrist control. This is tried, but does not
last long, and the former method is soon
resumed.
6.25 p.m. Medium becomes rather excited. She breathes
heavily and keeps on repeating, "It is
there, help me ! help me !
"
6.30 p.m. W. took her hand and closely looked at a
white object which appeared on her thumb.
She then raised her hands together with
the object and put them to her mouth.
[W. S. reported after the sitting that it
' looked to him like a piece of stiff white
paper about 2 inches long by | inch
broad, with sharp edges and rectangular
in shape. W. and Mrs. S. agreed with this
description, whilst B. said that he did not
see it at all and F. had only a partial
glimpse from behind.]
6.37 p.m. Small hand seen on left shoulder and photo-
graph taken. It was afterwards seen on the
right shoulder and W. S. says that it looked
as if the fingers were cut off at the knuckles
or closed. [Mrs. S. reported after the sitting
that she saw this phenomenon particularly
well, and what struck her most was that
at first it seemed to her like a kind of will
o' the wisp or flickering light, then suddenly
forming into a complete hand. W. said
that he thought the hand was of normal
246 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
proportions. All the observers agree that
the hands of the medium were never released
although the fingers were occasionally free.]
6.55 p.m. Seance closes.
Remarks on Seance IX.
From the accounts of the observers during this seance
it is difficult to determine clearh^ of what the phenomenon
actually consisted. That the hand appears to have de-
veloped whilst under direct observation seems to be certain
from what Mrs. Salter reported after the sitting, although
it is hard to understand exactly how this occurred.
Fortunately the photograph proved an excellent one as the
accompanying enlarged reproduction will show (Plate IV.).
The medium is seen seated as usual in her chair, whilst
her hands are held on either side by the controllers. On
her left shoulder, towards which her head is inclined, are
seen the four fingers of a roughly designed left hand
which looks as if it were made of some inflated material.
The fingers appear to be jjartially webbed, and a piece
of white material adheres to the tips of the first and
second. From the root of the fourth finger hangs a
white thread, whilst below, although not in any way
attached, is another white thread seemingly looped over
a fold in the medium's dress. The back of the hand is
not formed, being composed of a white mass of indeter-
minate shape, and joined to the upper part of it is a
small face of a pleasant-looking child, closely resembling a
photograph. The hair is evidently shaded on to the
forehead and the whole head is surrounded by a sort of
whitish hood which is somewhat pointed towards the right-
hand side. It is interesting to note that the face, probably
owing to the insufficiency of light, was not noticed by
any of the observers during the sitting, its existence being
made known only by means of the photograph. The
second photograph shows the same phenomenon from a
slightly different point of view, but there are no additional
characteristics worthy of notice.
Plate IV
ixxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 247
Seance X.
May 12, 1920.
Present. Mme B., INIrs. S., Capt. B., F., W. S., Mr. Dingwall
(D.), and the operator.
Control. Mrs. Salter controlled the medium both before and
after the sitting, whilst during the seancu W. S. sat at
the right-hand side of the medium controlling her right
hand, whilst iVIrs. S. sat on her left and controlled the
hand on that side.
5.17 p.m. Seance begins,
5.52 p.m. The medium has been quiet up till now. A
noise in the throat commences which is
followed by slight groaning, but subse-
quently all is quiet again.
5.55 p.m. Capt. B. moves from the place he occupied
at the beginning of the seance behind
Mme B. and seats himself to the right and
slightly behind D.
6.10 p.m. Hands are now controlled by the wrists only:
when examined the hands are found to be
empty.
6.15 p.m. Saliva visible on right shoulder. The little
fingers of the controllers are now being
grasped by the medium.
6.20 p.m. Medium now appears to be about to be
" prise," a kind of grumbling respiration begins.
^6.22 p.m. Medium opens curtains and leaning forward
shows a mass of scattered-looking liquid on
her right breast. Mme B. says that so far
there is nothing because it is still liquid,
but perhaps the phenomena will form from
it.
6.25 p.m. Curtains again opened. Some saliva that
seemed semi-luminous is visible on the right
side of her breast (?). It quickly runs down
producing the effect of quicksilver.
t6.27 p.m. Medium says that she feels the substance
coming from the navel.
248 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
6.30 p.m. Mrs. S. reports that on looking closely at the
medium's chest she saw a streak of thin
liquid, first faint but afterwards brighter,
appear upon the surface of the clothing.
She did not see any come from the mouth,
and it looked as if the substance had oozed
out through the tights.
6.40 p.m. Medium has become quite quiet again, nothing
further having happened.
7.0 p.m. Medium says that she feels nothing and the
seance is therefore closed.
Seance XI.
May 13, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., F., W., B., and the operator.
Control. Befoie and after the sitting W. and Mrs. S. During
the seance W. on the right of medium and B. on the left.
[At the conclusion of the preceding sitting Mme Bisson
had suggested that the controllers should in the future
leave the medium's hands free, and allow them to remain
visibly lying on her knees. The reason for this was that
it was possible that constant holding of the hands absorbed
the " fluids." During the present sitting this advice was
acted upon when it was thought advisable, and when the
medium would herself permit it. It may here be observed
that the medium seemed obsessed by the idea that it
was necessary that her hands should always be held,
and even when the controllers, in deference to Mme
Bisson's suggestion, sought to release them from their
hold, whilst retaining them under visual observation, the
medium almost invariably at once seized their hands
again. It is important to note in this connexion that
the hands were fully under control from the moment
that the light was turned off until the eyes got sufficiently
accustomed to the illumination for them to be able to see
the hands clearly. This rule was observed throughout the
entire series of seances and will wot be mentioned again.]
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 249
5.21 p.m. Seance begins.
5.34 p.m. Medium's hands remain free upon her knees.
5.44 p.m. Medium is still quiet ; her pulse is 116, and
she says that she thinks that something is
coming.
5.45 p.m. Saliva falls on left side.
6.5 p.m. Up till now the hands have remained visible,
and quietly resting on her knees. She now
asks for them to be held and begins to
groan a little as if she felt that the pheno-
mena were acting upon her. Mme B. says
that she is certainly " prise.''
6.10 p.m. Medium opens the curtains, but nothing is
visible. The crisis gradually subsides and
nothing appears.
6.15 p.m. Slight resumption of the " travail.'^
"
6.20 p.m. Medium says several times that "it is going
to come."
6.21 p.m. At this point unfortunately F. sneezes three
times violently. The medium starts in terror
and partly comes back to herself. Mme B.
asks permission to open the curtains, and
showing that her hands are empty re-
hypnotizes the medium. Her pulse is 100 and
Mme B. says that she is sleeping too deeply
and must be recalled. Holding her hands
(still held by W. and B.) she recalls her
to a speaking state. When W. and B.
have satisfied themselves that her hands are
empty she again places them on her knees
where they are perfectly visible and her
wrists only are held.
6.35 p.m. The " travail " again begins.
6.38 p.m. The hands which have hitherto been warm
are reported by W. and B. to have become
colder.
^ This word is used by Mme Bisson to express the physical efforts
made by the medium when she is about to produce phenomena, or
apparently expects to produce them. As will be seen from this report,
these efforts do not always have any visible result.
250 A Series of Sittings with Eva G. [part
6.40 p.m. Medium keeps on repeating, " It is coming."
6.50 p.m. Nothing further and everything quiet.
7.5 p.m. Everything still quiet, but when the medium
is asked as to her impressions says that
she feels " them " all round her.
7.25 p.m. No further developments and so the sitting is
closed.
Seance XII.
May 14, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., F., W., D., and the operator.
Control. IVIrs. S. and W. superintended the control before
and after, whilst during the seance W. sat on the right
and D. on the left of the medium.
4.16 p.m. Seance begins. After hypnotization medium's
hands are examined, before the light is
turned out.
5.10 p.m. Up till now the medium has been quiet, her
hands tightly grasping those of the con-
trollers, which she refuses to relinquish even
when asked to do so. She says that the
phenomena are coming.
5.13 p.m. Mme. B asks for the light to be slightly
reduced, which is accordingly done. W.
says that he can still see the time by F.'s
watch even when it is close to the curtains.
6.25 p.m. Nothing has happened hitherto. Against the
wishes and struggles of the medium the
controllers succeed in loosening her grasp
of their hands, and, withdrawing them,
allow hers to rest in full view upon her
knees. She still objects strongly, and at
6.37 p.m. she insists on holding both D.'s hands, saying
that she can draw power from him.
Shortly afterwards she declares that she
can feel the " fluid " se degager. A little
saliva appears.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 251
6.53 p.m. Medium says that it is useless to continue
and that it will not se degager. The sitting
closes.
Seance XIII.
May 15, 1920.
Present. Mme B., F., W., D., and the operator.
Control. Before and after W. controlled the medium, whilst
during the sitting W. sat on the right and D. on the left
of the medium.
11.12 a.m. Seance begins. Immediately after hypnotiza-
tion, before the light is turned out, both
the hands of Mme B. and of the medium
are examined.
11.41 a.m. W. and D. report that the medium's hands
are much colder than they were at the
beginning of the sitting. They have been
continuously visible from the start and the
left is now resting on D."s and the right on
W.'s knee.
12.20 p.m. A little saliva is observed on the medium's
left breast.
1.0 p.m. Up till now the medium has been perfectly
quiet. Asked if she feels anything she
repHes in the negative and the sitting is
therefore closed.
Seance XIV.
3Iay 17, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs S., Mrs F., F., B., W., D., and the
operator.
Control. Mrs. S. and W. controlled before and after, whilst
durmg the sittmg W. sat on the right and B. on the left
of the medium.
In arranging the position of the sitters we wished to place
D. between Mme B. and B., but Mme B. asked that he
252 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
should be seated behind her with Mrs. S. and Mrs. F. on
either side, as such an allocation of the sexes was a favourable
condition. As the magnesium apparatus was behind Mme B.
and there was not room for another seat D. took his place
to her left and only slightly behind her.
[At the conclusion of the previous sitting Mme Bisson
had said that she feared that the fact that in London
the medium was always held by strange controllers instead
of by herself as in Paris might partl}^ account for the
non-appearance of the phenomena, as the medium was
accustomed to her control and lacked confidence without
it. We therefore suggested that we should try the
Paris conditions, a proposition to which Mme Bisson
objected, since she said that success would involve her in
a natural suspicion. She then said that if we returned
to the conditions usually obtaining at Paris, she should
insist on being controlled as well as the medium, and
with this end in view she proposed that a tulle curtain
should be hung l^etween the medium and the sitters. To
this proposition IMr. Feilding objected on the ground that
such a curtain would offer a serious olistacle not only
to seeing the phenomena, but also to touching them. In
hopes, therefore, of meeting her views, he suggested an
overall for Mme Bisson which she promptly accepted, and
Mrs. Feilding therefore made a tulle dress wdth sleeves
which she thought would answer the purpose satisfactorily.
When the finished dress was shown to Mme Bisson, she
criticized it saying that it ought to have been more like a
bag, completely enclosing her head, hands and feet. A
compromise was however effected by her pulling up the
sleeves of her dress, the tulle sleeves being then fastened
tightly round her arms. The overall was then sewn
together all round under her feet, so that, except for her
head and hands, she was more or less completely enclosed
within a bag. Her hair was not examined. Before the
sitting began she asked permission for W. and B. to
act as controllers, as she objected to D.'s control on
the ground that it was too rigid {trop dur). In this con-
nexion she also suggested that we should allow the
XXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 253
phenomena to start and not impede their ever starting
by an unduly harsh and critical attitude. If the pheno-
mena were permitted to begin they could be observed,
and once this was done under good conditions she was
sure that our mental attitude would change.]
8.35 p.m. Seance begins. Although it had been intended
that Mme B. should hold the medium's
hands after hypnotizing her, this was not
possible as the latter insisted on laying her
hands on W.'s and B.'s.
9.11 p.m. Up till now the medium has been quite quiet.
W. managed to release his hand some few-
moments before and the medium's hand
has been resting on his knee ever since,
except for about two seconds, when it dis-
appeared behind the curtain. The medium
now begins to moan slightly, and a little
saliva falls on to the front of her frock.
D. feels it : it is wet and viscous, but he
thinks not more so than ordinary saliva
would be under similar circumstances.
9.17 p.m. B. releases his hand, leaving the medium's
left hand resting on her knee and perfectly
visible.
9.18 p.m. Both hands still visible on knees. Notwith-
standing the overall Mme B. still refuses
to take the medium's hands, as her own are
not enclosed in bags.
9.37 p.m. Sahva is noticed under the left hand. W.
lights it up with the pocket electric torch.
It appears black and shiny under the light.
B. reports that the hands are very cold.
9.50 p.m. Eva is groaning a good deal. She says that
it is coming from her chest and asks if
there is anything there. The curtains are
opened by W., who looks in, but does not
see anything. Mme B. now takes the
medium's hands and tries to encourage
her.
9.56 p.m. Nothing happens, and Mme B. relinquishes
254 A Series of Sittings tvitli Eva C. [part
the medium's hands, which remain resting
on Eva"s knees. Shortly after Mme B. gives
the medium's hands back to W. and B.
10.2 p.m. A stream of saKva is seen trickling from the
left shoulder. Curtains closed and then
immediately re-opened by the medium, who
shows a white spot, the size of a large pea,
on her left breast. The saliva on the left
shoulder appears to be no longer there and
the white spot may also have been saliva,
but stationary.
10.10 p.m. Eva opens the curtains wide and shows her-
self, but no phenomena are visible.
10.15 p.m. Much moving, straining and moving of the
hands outside the curtains.
10.16 p.m. Curtains opened by the medium and a long
stream of very white saliva is seen trickling
from the right shoulder. Curtains closed
and when re-opened immediately after several
drops of white substance are seen upon the
lap. This when illuminated by the torch
shows white under the light, and Mme B.
says that it is a piece of the " substance,"
still amorphous and mingled with saliva.
10.30 p.m. F. asks Mme B. to take Eva's hands, but
the medium says that the present control
is not disturbing to her. Mme B. thereupon
remarked that it was " not the same as
she said yesterday, when on putting her to
sleep she said that it did." W. and B.
release their hands, but Mme B. still
refuses to take Eva's, which are lying on
her knees, as the latter evidently does not
wish it, and Mme B. desires that the
medium should remain quiet.
10.45 p.m. Eva insists on taking W.'s and B.'s hands,
saying that she likes it better so.
10.48 p.m. Renewed disquiet taking the form of moans,
groans and struggles. Hands remain held
and plainly visible.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 255
10.49 p.m. Eva opens the curtains and shows a long
stream of white curly-looking stuff lying
motionless on her breast. It disappears
almost at once, but B. touches what re-
mains and receives a damp sensation. Mme
B. says that it is the '
substance,' which
however has not strength enough to take
any distinct form.
10.55 p.m. A Wimshurst machine is revolved for a few
moments inside the cabinet in order to
ozonize the air.
11.4 p.m. Nothing further. Seance closes.
Seance XV.
May 18, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., F., and W.
CoNTKOL. Mrs. S. and W. controlled the medium before and
after the sitting, Mrs. S. being on the left and W. on the
right of the medium during the seance.
Mme B. wears her overall as before, and after the medium
has been hypnotized her hands are held by Mme B. and W.,
but presently W. releases his, leaving the medium's hand
lying on her laiee whilst Mrs. S. holds the other.
6.15 p.m. Seance begins.
6.40 p.m. Eva asks W. to give her his hand. Up till now
both hands have been continuously visible.
6.42 p.m. Pulse 114.
6.50 p.m. Medium says that it is coming {ga va venir).
7.0 p.m. Some saliva on shoulder is observed trickling
down on to the breast.
7.26 p.m. Nothing further. Hands have been some-
times held, and sometimes allowed to be
free, but always visible.
7.50 p.m. A good deal of saliva is visible. W. takes
some in a small bottle for the purpose of
subsequent analysis.
8.0 p.m. Seance closes, as nothing has appeared.
256 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
Seance XVI.
May 19, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., F., W., D., and the operator.
Control. Mrs. S. and W. before and after, whilst during the
sitting W. sat on the medium's right and B. on her left.
Mme B. wore her overall and her hands were also enclosed
in tulle bags.
[Before the sitting commenced Mme B. again complained
of the attitude which she thought was taken up by D.,
and suggested that his control should not be so " rigid
"
as she thought it on a previous occasion. This was at
once conceded, and D. no longer kept up the same watch-
ful attention that he had exercised before.]
5.19 p.m. Seance begins.
6.55 p.m. Nothing has happened hitherto. The medium
has remained quite quiet, and now she
suggests that she should strip to the waist
in order to assist the phenomena to show
themselves.
F., D., and the operator retire.
7.10 p.m. Seance closed. Mrs. S. and W. report that
nothing has happened.
Seance XVII.
Maij 21, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., F., B., D., and the operator.
Control. Mrs. S. and W. before and after, whilst during the
sitting W. sat on the right of the medium and B. on
the left. Mme B. wore her overall with her hands en-
closed in tulle bags as before.
[At the conclusion of the last sitting Mme Bisson had
remarked that a possible cause of the weakness of the
phenomena was to be sought in the fact that the medium
seemed to be tired and languid and so she suggested that
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 257
Dr. Woolley should prepare a tonic, which he accordingly
promised to do as soon as possible.]
5.16 p.m. Seance begins. Mme B. hypnotizes the medium
somewhat more deeply than usual, as she
thinks this will enable her to become less
conscious of her immediate environment.
5.55 p.m. The hands have been held continuously by
W. and B. Crisis now begins but soon
subsides : nothing appears.
6.7 p.m. Eva gives a cry : the curtains are opened
but nothing is visible.
6.20 p.m. At Mme B.'s request Eva releases her hands
from W. and B. and places them on her lap,
where they are perfectly visible. Shortly
afterwards however she resumes her hold
of W. and B.'s hands.
6.55 p.m. The light is slightly reduced. Immediately
afterwards Eva leans forward and, showing
a small white spot on the left shoulder,
says that it is coming." [At the reduc-
tion of the light the medium strongly
.
'
protested, saying that she did not wish it
and that M. Dingwall ne -pent voir.''' D.
was sitting on the left of Mme B. and had
an excellent view.] More white substance
appears on the right shoulder and the
medium's pulse is 136. Eva keeps on
opening the curtains, declaring that it is
there and that she feels it, but nothing is
visible.
7.17 p.m. Light again reduced. It is now very dark,
and Eva insists on again holding the hands
of the controllers.
7.25 p.m. Eva asks for the torch to be turned on to
her lap, saying that she feels something, but
does not know what or where. Nothing is
visible.
Great excitement. Mme B. says that she
thinks something is coming and asks for
258 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
a better light, which is accordingly increased,
but it is still darker than usual.
7.30 p.m. A thing somewhat similar in shape to a
child's bib is seen hanging from the medium's
mouth. Shortly afterwards Eva leans for-
ward, and W. says that the thing looked
like a picture in chalk done on paper.
7.37 p.m. Medium gives the signal for the flash to be
taken. Mme B. says that if it comes
again, we must examine it with the torch.
Excitement continues and Eva asks the
controllers to note that she has never
moved her feet from theirs and then
demands that the light from the torch be
thrown into her mouth. This is done, but
nothing is visible. Immediately she says
" C'est fini.''
7.45 p.m. The sitting closes.
Remarks on Seance XVII.
Immediately after the conclusion of the seance the
observers were requested to dictate their impressions to F.,
as owing to the excitement and the difficulty of speaking
amid the general disturbance it was found to be im-
possible to take sufficient notes whilst the phenomena
were in progress. The following are the accounts thus
received.
W. said that the order of the proceedings was as
follows : a whitish object dropped from her mouth into
her lap. He tried to get his hand or the torch to it,
but by bringing her two hands (still held by the con-
trollers) together in front of it she prevented him from
getting any observation of it. She then put it into her
mouth with her left hand, and he flashed the torch on to
it. B. was controlling her left hand at the time and she
brought his hand as well as her own up to her mouth.
The object, when illuminated by the torch, looked like a
piece of paper about four by three inches in size and
filling her mouth. It seemed to have on it a face roughly
i
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 259
drawn in coloured crayons. (Mrs. S. had independently
noted that it seemed to her to have some colour which
she thought was red). The photograph was then taken.
B. said that the first thing he saw was a white thing,
oval in shape, coming from her mouth. Suddenly she
dropped it into her lap. He did not notice her pick it
up, but when he looked again at her mouth there was
something in it which looked quite different from what
he had first seen. The first object had seemed smooth
and white, whilst the second was square in form, the
edges being cut and serrated as if by scissors. There
were marks on the surface which seemed to him to have
a reddish tint, although he had not distinguished any
design of a face. From the beginning of the appearance
of the phenomena he had never let go the hand of the
medium for an instant.
D. said that the first thing he saw was an irregularly
shaped whitish object, about three and a half by two
inches broad. He had seen it only for a couple of
seconds, when he saw it drop on to the medium's lap.
It seemed to him to be smaller when it was lying on her
lap than it was when it was in her mouth. He then
saw her put both her hands over it on her lap and raise
it with them to her mouth. When she lowered them
again he saw in her mouth an object like a piece of
paper bent so that its two edges were held within her
lips. Cf. Fig. 2. He next saw a piece of white substance
hangmg from the left side of her mouth and on its
surface a roughly drawn face. It appeared as though the
piece previously bent back had now opened and fallen
below her mouth. The face itself seemed to him to be
like Fig. 77 in Mme Bisson's book, though without the
edges which surrounded the face on that occasion.
Mrs. S. said that she saw a white object apparently
hanging from the medium's mouth. It fell into her lap
Fig. J.
260 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
and she pulled her hands together over it and raised it
to her mouth. Mrs. S. said that she did not see in which
hand the medium held it, but when W. flashed his torch
on it, she distinctly saw some reddish marks, and inferred
from the shape that it was probably a head although she
could not distinguish any features. .
On developing the plates exposed at this sitting (Plates
v. and VI.) a surprise awaited the committee. The photo-
graphs show the medium lying back in her chair, her head
bent forward and her chin tightly pressed against her chest.
Between her chin and her dress, as if gripped by the
former, hangs what appears to be the small photograph
of a himian face, surrounded by a narrow frame of torn
and ragged paper. This face, to the astonishment of the
observers, in no way resembled that seen by them, being
a much more finished and artistic product than that
momentarily revealed by the light cast from the torch.
In place of a rough drawing as if rudely sketched in
chalk, appears what seems to be a photograph of a human
face which has something calm and even dignified about it.
The forehead is not visible, the nose is exceptionally long,
and a piece of the ragged edge obscures a portion of the
mouth.
Seance XVIII.
May 23, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. Woolley, Mrs. F., Mr. Houdini (H.)
B., D., F., W., and the operator.
Control. Before and after the sitting Mrs. F., and W. ;
during, W. on the right and H. on the left of the medium.
[On examining the medium's garments before this
seance D. discovered in a pleat of the medium's frock
just below the neck, a piece of white substance adhering
to a thick saliva stain upon the surface of the cloth.
The substance itself was flat, roughly circular in shape, and
measured about 6 mm. x 5 mm. On being examined again
Plate V.
Platk VJ.
Lxxxrv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 261
later microscopically by W. the substance proved to be a
piece of paper somewhat similar in texture and appearance
to certain varieties of Japanese rag or other soft papers.
This discovery was not made known to Mme B. or to
the medium before the sitting for fear of disturbing their
mental condition, which might be harmful to the pro-
duction of the phenomena.]
5.35 p.m. Seance begins.
5.40 p.m. Some saliva is seen on the left shoulder.
6.0 p.m. At Mme B.'s request the light is reduced. F.
reports, " From my seat, about four or five
feet from the controllers, I can see their
faces and hands dimly."
6.34 p.m. Eva begins to moan and asks us to call for
the phenomena. A white patch is visible
on the right shoulder.
6.35 p.m. White patch on left shoulder.
6.50 p.m. A good deal of frothy stuff is visible on the
breast and thigh.
7.12 p.m. Eva says she feels nothing but " fa va et
vient." H. takes her two hands and Mme
B. asks W. to put his hands on Eva's
neck and forehead. She then flashes the
light on the medium's face from whose
mouth a great deal of froth is seen issuing.
In order to shield the medium's eyes Mme
B. asks W. to cover them with his hands,
while D. lights up her face for a further
examination.
7.35 p.m. Eva says that she feels nothing and the
sitting is abandoned.
Remarks on Seance XVIII.
Mme Bisson had recently made the acquaintance of
Mr. Houdini, and herself suggested that he should be
invited to some sittings. She was of course aware of his
reputation as a conjurer.
262 A Series of Sittings ivitk Eva C. [part
Seance XIX.
May 25, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., B., D., F., W. S., and the operator.
Control. Before and after the sitting Mrs. S. ; during, D.
on the right and B. on the left of the medium. Mme B.
wore her white tulle costume.
[Before the sitting F. suggested to Mme B. that the
medium should wear a veil sewn to her tights and
entirely enclosing her head ; the idea being that if any
phenomenon then appeared inside the veil, the only
hypothesis that would be suggested to account for it by
normal means would be that of regurgitation, while if
one appeared both within and without the veil, even that
would have to be discarded. Mme B. however was not
inclined to agree to this suggestion, as she said that the
medium was already too hostile for her to venture to
propose it, and advised postponement.]
4.30 p.m. Seance begins.
5.20 p.m. D. thinks that he was touched on the left
arm by something inside the curtain. Both
hands were held by him and B. at the
time.
5.23 p.m. Light reduced. Eva says that it is too dark
and it is increased slightly. F. reports
" the light is dim hxit I can see the hands
from where I am, four or five feet from
the curtain." Eva says that she feels
something round her, but does not know
whether it will manifest itself.
6.15 p.m. Up till now medium has been quite quiet,
talking occasionally and at times breathing
rather rapidly, but no crisis of any kind
has supervened.
Shortly after, F. and W. S. were obliged
to leave and the sitting was continued
without them.
6.47 p.m. Medium says that she feels nothing and owing
to the great heat the sitting was closed.
liXxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 263
Remarks on Seance XIX.
This sitting was the only one at which any of the
sitters were '
touched ' during the entire course of the
Society's seances with this medium. The touch itself
partook more of the nature of a decided poke and was
felt at a distance of about fourteen inches from the
wrist. Unfortunately it was not repeated and so experi-
ments as to its origin could not be carried out.
Seance XX.
Maij 27, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., B., D., F., W., and the operator.
Control. Mrs. S. and W. btfore and after, whilst during the
sitting D. sat at the right and B. at the left of the
medium. The medium's veil was sewn on by Mrs. S.,
whilst Mme B. also wore her tulle costume.
[On the day preceding this seance the medium, having
probably heard of F.'s suggestion, reported in the last seance,
had herself suggested that she should wear a veil which
would completely cover her face. The Committee accepted
the suggestion, and consequently a veil was provided and
was worn by the medium for the first time at the present
sitting. This veil consisted of an ordinary piece of black
gauze made of silk and cotton fibres, the size of the mesh
being 3 mm. square. Before the seance Mrs. S. sewed
1;his veil to the medium's tights, an opening being left
behind, which was later sewn up with white thread before
she put on her outer tunic. The medium was thus en-
closed in a bag leaving only her hands free, the neck
of the tunic coming well above the line of stitches
fastening the veil to the tights.]
5.5 p.m. Seance begins. Hands held by D. and B.
5.17 p.m. White patch of saliva visible on left shoulder.
5.20 p.m. A rather larger quantity of saliva is seen on
the left forearm just above the elbow. The
light is stronger to-day than is usuallj" the
case.
264 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
6.18 p.m. Saliva on lap.
6.35 p.m. Eva, who has been moaning gently and
rapidly for some time, now asks Mme B.
to call for the phenomena (" Aqypelle, ma
Juliette, a^ipelle.")
.
6.55 p.m. Medium says that she feels it all round her.
7.3 p.m. Eva's hands are left free, but lie visibly on
her knees.
7.30 p.m. Eva has been asked several times if it is
worth while going on. She says that she
thinks she feels something to her right and
prefers to go on a little longer in the hope
that it will show itself.
7.40 p.m. She says that her feeling has diminished and
the sitting is abandoned.
Sea>T'e XXI.
Maij 28, 1920.
Present. Mme B., F., D., and the operator, who took notes
from dictation.
Control. Mrs. F. controlled the medium before the sitting,
sewing the veil as before at the back, but was unabfe
to stay, and left before the seance began. During the
sitting F. sat on the right and D. on the left of the
medium, whilst at the conclusion a partial control only
was exercised by D. and F., the medium remainmg in her
tights. The veil was worn as before. Glass of the
torch covered in orange paper.
4.52 p.m. Seance begins.
5.6 p.m. Eva's hands are free, but they remain visible
outside the curtains
5.14 p.m. Medium asks for her hands to be held. They
are taken by D. and P., but later Eva
requests D. to take them both and she
puts her knees between his.
5.21 p.m. On account of the heat it is suggested that
the medium's frock should be removed.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 265
D. and F. thereupon remove the garment,
the hands and arms beuig fully controlled
throughout the process.
5.24 p.m. Medium opens the curtains wide bvxt nothing
is visible. A crisis seems to be approach-
ing.
5.29 p.m. Medium appears to be " prise " and asks
for the cameras to be prepared. D. is
holding both her hands and with the cur-
tains wide open he is able to see right
into the cabinet. Eva occasionally leans
forward showing her face at the front of
the curtains, and panting like a dog ; she
declares that it is coming.
5.35 p.m. Eva says that " it is here " and calls for
help so that she can prodvice the phenomena
outside the veil. She leans forward and
F. says that he has the strong impression
that a white object is coming out on a
level with her mouth through the veil.
He sees her face and head in profile and
the object appears white and fluffy, one
and a half inches in length and resembling
a feather covered with swan's down.
[D. says that he saw a whitish strip
about one and a half inches long by a half
inch in breadth, which seemed to be coming
from the left corner of her mouth and to
be lying flat against her cheek. It is
doubtful whether this is the same object
as seen by F. as the latter could not see
the left side of Eva's face from his position.
As D. was sitting almost opposite the
medium he may have seen what F. des-
scribed, but foreshortened.]
5.39 p.m. Medium asks for the curtain to be closed as
she is trying to get the phenomenon through
the veil.
5.40 p.m. Eva says that it has passed through the veil,.
because she saw it.
'266 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
5.43 p.m. Eva opens the curtains and says, " There it
is." Nothing is visible and the curtains
are closed.
5.43i p.m. Eva leans forward and tells Mme B. that it
is on her shoulder. Nothing is visible and
the curtains are again closed.
5.45 p.m. She again leans forward and says it is about
her head, but nothing is seen.
5.46^ p.m. She again leans forward and says, " Don't
you see it ?
" Nothing is visible.
5.48 p.m. A white waxlike pointed object is seen coming
from the medium's mouth inside the veil.^
It seemed to be about as long as the little
finger and according to F. strongly re-
sembled, in appearance though not in colour,
the pistil of an arum lily. He was not
quite sure whether it was in or outside
the veil, but on feeling it with his hand,
he found it was outside. The medium
raised D.'s hands to her mouth and he
felt the object scrape over the back of his
hand. The torch was turned on it and
both F. and D. saw that it was sticking
out of her mouth through the veil. The
medium then asked for the photographs
to be taken, and after the flash she again
asked for the object to be examined outside
her mouth. F. and D. both saw the object
in her movith and to D. the part outside
the veil seemed to be shorter than before.
She lowered her head towards her hands
and seemed for a moment to put the object
into them, and we again turned the torch
onto the phenomenon. She then appar-
ently put it back into her mouth, and
turning her head round as far as she could
prevented us from seeing the exact way in
^ D.'s record written at 7.30 p.m. the same evening reads :
" Then again
a white object protruded from her mouth inside the veil, and then I saw it
outside.
Lxxxrv.] A Series of Sittings tvith Eva C. 267
which it disappeared. She then asked for
the veil to be examined again with the
torch, but the object was no longer visible.
6.2 p.m. Eva asks for the observers to call for the
reappearance of the phenomenon, but nothing
is now visible.
6.3 p.m. Eva says that she feels a pain in her chest
and keeps plucking at her dress with her
hands which were still held by D. Her
breathing, which had previously been rapid
and panting, became suddenly inaudible and
she remained seated in her chair in an
absolutely quiescent condition. Later she
came to herself.
6.15 p.m. The sitting closes.
After the medium had left the cabinet F.
and D. made a minute examination of the
veil. In the neighbourhood of the mouth
it was intact, but at a point about 4 inches
below the neck a small space in the front
seam which had been imperfectly sewn was
detected. This hole was sufficient for the
insertion of a forefinger, and under a differ-
ent method of control it might have been
physically possible to force a previously
prepared object in and out as desired. But
an action such as this would have neces-
sitated the lifting of the veil (which hung
drooping over the seam), the discovery of
the opening in the darkness, and the insert-
tion and withdrawal of the object through
it, whilst the hands were held the whole
time by one of the controllers, who was
keenl}?^ alert for the slightest indication of
any suspicious movement. At the discovery
of this opening both Mme Bisson and Eva
appeared much upset, and it was only
with the greatest difficulty that the medium
was sufficiently calmed for her to proceed
home. The photographs on being developed
268 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
were unfortunately so badly blurred as to
be worthless for the purpose of reproduction.
The medium had lent so far forward in.
her chair in order to show the phenomenon
that she was quite out of the focus of
both cameras. A part of the veil is shown
tucked into her mouth, and the object which
has been described above as like the pistil
of an arum lily is seen held between the
medium's lips. All that part of it which is
visible appears to be about the size of a
small finger and the part outside the veil
appears to be about 1'. inches long. But
owing to the blurring of the photograph,,
it is impossible to form an exact estimate.
Remarks on Seance XXI.
In this sitting, which from the evidential point of view
was probably one of the most interesting of the whole
series, the '
materialized substance '
appeared to pass
through the veil without in any way injuring the meshes
in the neighbourhood of the mouth. The fact that an
opening in the lower seam was discovered after the sitting
is not in our opinion one which need in any way trouble
the serious student. It cannot be denied that it was
unfortunate that this opening was not noticed before the
seance. Such mal-observation only indicates too clearly
that the most extreme caution is always necessary when
conducting investigations of this nature. With regard to
the actual use of this opening by the medium little need
be said. We are quite convinced in our own minds that
as a matter of fact Eva did not so use it, and even
assuming that the phenomenon was brought about by
normal agency, we are not of opinion that the opening
could have been employed for its production. Before
the next sitting the veil was doubly sewn round the
tights with a sewing-machine, thus making it for the
future absolutely secure.
XXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 269
Seance XXII.
May 31, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Dr. W. J. Crawford, B., D., F., W., W. S.,
and the operator.
Control. Before and after, W., during the sitting B. sat on
the right of the medium and D. cn the left. The medium
wore her veil, but Mme B. no longer wore her tulle
costume.
4.42 p.m. Seance begins. Hands held by B. and D.
4.55 p.m. Both hands transferred to D., who is asked
by Eva to hold them more tightly.
5.15 p.m. D. reports that the whole of the medium's
hands are now enclosed within his own
including the thumbs.
5.20 p.m. Mme B. points out that the medium is not
able to get any fluid " if she insists on
having her hands held from the beginning.
D. therefore withdraws his hands, and Eva's
are left lying visibly on her knees.
6.7 p.m. A spot of saliva is visible on medium's arm.
6.20 p.m. Eva again takes D.'s hands saying she gets
force from them. B. and D. agree that
her hands have not yet approached her
head.
A crisis seems to be approaching.
6.40 p.m. D. sees a white object like frothy saliva in
her mouth inside the veil. He reports that
she lifts her hands to the veil while holding
his. At Mme B.'s suggestion B. turns the
torch on to Eva's face. Nothing is seen
and half of her face is hidden through
being pressed against the back of the chair.
Mme B. explains to the medium the im-
portance of lighting up the phenomenon
w^hile it is inside the veil.
6.53 p.m. Crisis is continued but is not very strong.
Eva is breathing rapidly and says it is
still there. Mme B. says it often happens
270 A Series of Sittings loith Eva C. [part
that the force comes and then appears to
go off to return later.
7.3 p.m. There has been complete silence for some
time. Mme B. asks if " it " has gone, but
medium says, " Wait."
7.11 p.m. Medium says that she still feels nothing, and
the sitting is closed.
Note.—Mme Bisson was of opinion that as phenomena
had actually occurred when both she and the medium
were practical^ enclosed in bags, she had sufficiently
established her own non-complicity in their production.
She therefore suggested that it was no longer necessary
for her to wear the tulle costume. As it had only been
imposed in deference to her own wishes, the Committee
readily concurred.
Seance XXIII.
June 2, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. Desmet, Mr. Beaufort, D., F., W., and
the operator.
Control. Before and after, W. Mme B. did not wear her
costume, but the medium wore her veil, which was examined
before the seance by both W. and D. During the
sitting W. sat on the right of the medium and D. on
the left.
5.0 p.m. Seance begins. The hands are lying visible
on the knees, the controllers just touching
the wrists.
5.50 p.m. The medium gives both hands to D.
6.9 p.m. D. reports some saliva on the left shoulder.
6.14 p.m. Some white stuff (saliva froth ?) in mouth.
6.15 p.m. W. flashes torch on to Eva's mouth and sees
a white object projecting about half an
inch. Mme B. regrets the lighting of the
phenomenon at this stage as she says it
hinders its proper development. A crisis
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 271
seems to be approaching in the medium,
who is breathing heavily and groaning.
6.25 p.m. Eva keeps on saying that there is something
on her shoulder, but it is not yet in a
condition to be shown. Mme B. examines
it with the torch, but findg nothing.
6.28 p.m. Eva says it is behind her ear, but nothing is
seen.
7.0 p.m. As nothing has yet appeared the seance is
concluded.
Seance XXIV.
June 4, 1920.
Present. IVIme B., INIrs. S., D., F., and the operator.
COjSttkol. Before and after, Mrs. S., during the seance Mrs.
S. sat on the right of the medium D. on the left. The
medium wore her veil as before, but Mme B. did not
wear her tulle costume either at this, sitting or at any
subsequent one.
[On examining the frock before this sitting D. dis-
covered in one of the front pleats a piece of substance
similar in ajDpearance to, but rather smaller than that found
on the evening of Sunday, May 23. This was carefully
removed from the dry saliva to which it was adhering and
taken away by W. for microscopic examination. Like
that found on May 23, it proved to be paper.]
4.55 p.m. Seance begins. Eva's hands are visibly lying
in front of her, the controllers just touching
them with one finger.
5.15 p.m. Eva asks D. to take both hands, and he does
so.
5.48 p.m. D. lets go of the medium's hands and they
remain clearly visible outside the curtain.
A few minutes after however she again
takes his hands.
5.53 p.m. Medium says that she feels it in her mouth.
6.0 p.m. Eva leans forward and says that there is
272 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
something inside the veil on the left side
Mme B. looks into the cabinet, but sees
nothing in the veil at present.
6.30 p.m. The medium remains quiet. She says there is
something all round her and touching her
on the head and shoulders, but nothing is
visible.
6.55 p.m. Eva asks to be lighted by the torch, as she
wants to see if anything is visible. This
is done, but nothing is seen.
7.25 p.m. Eva says that it is coming and begins to
breathe hard.
7.27 p.m. D. releases the medium's hands, which lie
clearly visible in her lap. She reaches
forward almost at once and again takes D.'s
hands. F. leaves.
7.45 p.m. Nothing has yet appeared and the sitting is
closed.
SEANCli XXV.
June 5, 1920.
Present. Mme B., j\Irs. S., Mr. Salter (S.), D., and the operator.
At this sitting Mr. Salter sat at the table usually occupied
by F. and took notes when it was considered necessary.
Control. Before and after, Mrs. S. ;
during the seance Mrs. S.
sat on the right of the medium and D. on the left.
2.5 p.m. Seance begins. Medium's hands are held by
D. and her feet rest on his.
2.17 p.m. Eva now takes Mrs. S.'s left hand with her
right and D.'s thumb with her left.
2.25 p.m. D.'s hands again taken by the medium.
2.35 p.m. D. releases his hands and allows Eva's to
remain lying visible on her knees.
2.45 p.m. Mme B. puts her hands on D.'s shoulders in
order to make a chain for " the force,"
and encourages the medium saying, " Allans,
ma petite, allons,'' etc.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittiiigs with Eva C. 273
3.7 p.m. Eva's hands are now behind the curtain but
held by D.
3.12 p.m. Medium continues to groan and moan, which
she has done intermittently for some
time.
3.55 p.m. Knocking at the door of the seance room.
Medivim starts in terror and is only calmed
with difficulty. (The knocking was pro-
bably catised by a member of the Society
who Avished to exchange a book. As the
Society's rooms are not open on Saturday
afternoons, the in(]uirer found the office
shut and then knocked at each of the
other doors in turn.)
4.8 p.m. Eva's hands are reported to be slightly
cold.
4.55 p.m. Medium's hands held by Mrs. S. D. enters
cabinet and with one hand presses Eva's
forehead and with the other the back of
her neck. (This is done to increase the
state of hypnosis, as whilst the pressure is
being applied strong suggestions of sleep
are given). Medium begins to pant
slightly.
5.2 p.m. Eva begins to utter strident cries culminating
in shrieks.
5.4 p.m. Medium asks for the light : the electric torch
is directed onto her mouth and a
whitish ball is seen between her teeth
inside the veil. It appears to be about one
inch in diameter.
5.7 p.m. The flash goes off and photographs are taken.
5.15 p.m. A long whitish tongue-like object 2| by |
inches in size is seen protruding from her
mouth inside the veil.
5.20 p.m. A similar object still seems to be in the
to medium's mouth, but this time it is more
5.25 p.m. like a finger. Mme B. flashes the torch on
to it and declares that she sees a finger-
nail at the end of the object. D. does not
274 A Series of Sittings with Eva G. [part
see the nail and asks for the torch agam.
It is flashed on to Eva's mouth and he sees
that at the end of the object is a V-shaped
mark. The upper lip of the medium appears
to be much thicker than the lower.
5.30 p.jTi. Another piece of substance is now visible, about
three inches in length and one inch in breadth,
which is lying lengthways in the medium's
mouth inside the veil.
5.31 p.m. The substance begins to hang down towards
the right of Eva's mouth.
5.32 p.m. It is again level with the mouth, and the
medium says that she cannot get it through
the veil, because it is too soft.
5.40 p.m. Substance is still seen within the veil, although
it is of a different shape.
5.45 p.m. Medium calls for the light, and the torch
shows a part of the veil tucked into the
mouth.
5.46 p.m. Substance again visible in the mouth : it is
slowlj^ withdrawn and as it disappears D.
says that he sees a formation like a tiny
little hand (four fingers and thumb) at the
corner of the mouth. Shortly after the
mouth was shown empty. Mrs. S. later
.saw a black line round the outside of the
medium's tongue, ^ inch from the edge.
It followed the curve of the tongue, and the
appearance was also noted ])y D. and also
by S.
fi.O p.m. Eva shows a piece of the veil and of her own
hair inside her mouth.
6.3 p.m. The medium shows her tongue covered with a
soft white creamy substance, parts of her
tongue showing through. D. touches it
through the veil and reports that it feels
like soft warm putt3^
6.4 p.m. Substance still visible but more solid.
6.5 p.m. Mouth shown empty.
6.20 p.m. Seance closes.
Lxxxrv.j A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 275
Remarks on Seance XXV.
The account which follows is D.'s report, which was
written out on the afternoon cf Sunday, June 6, 1920,
taken from notes made at 6.50 p.m. the previous Saturday,
that is to say, thirty minutes after the sitting had finished.
This seance proved a very remarkable one. Towards
3.30 the medium appeared to be " prise,'' but the crisis
passed off and nothing appeared. At 4.30 I suggested
that we should close the sitting, but the medium refused
saying that " ca va venir." At about 4.50 another crisis
set in. Eva began to beg us to call for the phenomena
to appear, and her breathing again began to be rapid and
" throaty."' At times she would call out, "Oh, ina
Juliette, ma Juliette, il me fera mal," and then she would
utter sighs and groans finally ending in shrieks. As the
pain seemed inclined to pass off, she explained that she
had not the courage to allow herself to be gripped, as the
pain was more than she could bear. Some minutes later
the pain again came on, and Eva began to utter a series
of strident cries finally culminating in shrieks as before.
She began to struggle violently, twisting her arms about
so as to make it a matter of some difficulty to keep hold
of her hands. Then she put her head outside the curtains
and we saw a longish piece of substance protruding from
her mouth. It was greyish in colour and seemed to be
worked about between her lips. When her head again
appeared the substance was longer and Mme Bisson threw
the torch full upon it. It was a strip of waxy material
about two and a half inches long and a half inch in
width. Mme B. said that she saw a resemblance to a
finger and noticed a nail. I did not see this, and asked
her to light it again. She did so, and I saw the mark
to which she had referred. All the medium's efforts now
seemed to be directed to getting the substance through
the veU. In response to her request we all cried in
chorus, " Sortez, sortez du voile !
" This however proved
unavailing, and when the phenomenon appeared again, it
had changed its appearance. Between her lips there now
showed what has been described as a ''
paqiiet de
276 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
substance.'' This was an amorphous mass of material
exactly resembling a piece of cream cheese. It was being
worked about in the medium's mouth, and I constantly
heard the sound of sucking as she pressed and moulded it.
Unlike cream cheese, when bitten and pressed it did not
seem to break up, but bent and curled round the teeth
as chewing gum is said to do. We were enabled to
observe the entire process of this strange mastication, as
Mme Bisson kept the torch full upon her mouth for about
15 seconds whilst we examined it. After a few seconds
we saw the substaiace being gradually drawn back into
the mouth. Just as one of the corners was being drawn
in, it seemed to me to break up and form Avhat I can
only describe as a tiny hand (fingers and thumb), which
appeared to wave towards us before it finally vanished.
No one else observed this " hand," and I myself attach
no importance to it, merely remarking on the curious
shape of the substance and the impression that it made
upon me at the time. After the substance had vanished
a series of strange appearances began. For example, the
medium opened her mouth, and by throwing a beam of
light into the cavity we saw her tongue covered with
the material in what seemed to me a semi-liquid state.
Next time we looked in (or was it before ?) ^, we saw
what Mme Bisson described as the " substance noire."
On the medium's tongue lay what I should have described
as a piece of black thread, but to the other sitters it did
not seem so plain as this. This soon vanished and the
" cream cheese " appeared again.
The photographs were unfortunately again spoilt, as
the medium leant so far forward that she was completely
out of focus. In one a long round white object rather
like a limp candle is seen hanging from the left-hand
corner of her mouth, and in the other the same object
is seen hanging from the middle of her mouth, although
it appears somewhat broader at the part in contact with
her lips.
1 The contemporary record shows tliat the black substance came
before the white liquid mass on the tongue.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 277
Seance XXVI.
June 7, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Dr. Fournier D'Albe (F. D'A.), D., F., and
the operator.
Control. Dr. WooUey controlled the meduim before the
sitting, but was unable to stay longer. There there-
fore no control at the conclusion, whilst during the seance
F. D"A. sat on the medium's light and D. on her left.
Veil worn as before.
[When examining the veil prior to this sitting D. dis-
covered two small pieces of skin-like fibre which were
tightly adhering to the mesh in the neighbourhood of
the mouth. These were removed for examination and
proved to be fibres such as those found in cheap kinds of
paper.]
4.49 p.m. Seance begins.
5.10 p.m. Heavy breathing begins. Eva says that " ra
va venir.'' D. reports that he has heard
a burbling sound in the throat. This
sound had been previously heard on June 5.
and is now noticed for the second time.
The hands have been variously held : some-
times by F. D'A. and D., sometimes by
D. alone, and occasionally allowed to re-
main lying on Eva's lap, but at all times
perfectly visible.
5.33 p.m. Very slowly medium becomes cj^uite quiet
again and so remains.
6.25 p.m. Eva says that she feels absolutely nothing
and the sitting is abandoned.
Seance XXVII.
June 9, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., B., F., D., W., and the operator.
Control. Before and after, Mrs. S. and W. Durmg the
278 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
seance B. sat on the right of the medium and D. on the
left. Veil worn as before.
4.40 p.m. Seance begins. Mme B. suggests that the
light should be increased. Eva's hands
are free, but visible and widely separated.
4.50 p.m. Mme B. suggests that D. should take both
the medium's hands in order to " give
force." Shortly after Mrs. S. takes Eva's
hands, whilst D. slips oft" the medium's frock,
as she finds it too hot. He then retakes
Eva's hands.
4.54 p.m. D. releases his hands and allows the medium's
to lie fully visible on her knees.
5.5 p.m. Eva begins to strain and moan.
5.9 p.m. D. is again holding the medium's hands :
she is breathing rapidly and occasionally
straining, but according to Mme B. is not
yet " prise.''
5.11 p.m. Hands again free, but visible on lap.
5.25 p.m. Hands held by D. Eva is breathing rather
heavily, but is otherwise quiet.
5.40 p.m. Eva begins to groan again, but is constantly
disturbed by the loud banging of doors.
6.35 p.m. Medium has been quite quiet for a long
time ; we suggest abandoning the sitting,
but she says that she still feels something.
7.5 p.m. Medium says that she now feels nothing and
the seance is abandoned.
Remarks on Seance XXVII.
During the whole of this seance noises occiu'ring in the
building were found to be disturbing to the medium.
It must be remembered that the seance room adjoined
on one side another room which was used by Messrs.
Knight, Frank and Rutley as their advertising depart-
ment. Upon this occasion the door to this room was
continually being banged by the firm's assistants, and on
one occasion during the sitting a telephone bell suddenly
rang, at which the medium appeared so terrified that
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 279
she had to be held in her chair, and was only calmed
Avith the utmost difficulty by Mme Bisson. These
noises had an extremely bad effect on the production
of the phenomena, as just when Eva was about to
be " prise ", some sudden noise would startle her, and
the entire process would have to be begun over again.
Subsequent sittings were therefore held in the evenings
after the firm's assistants had left, an arrangement which
permitted the seance to be conducted in the most absolute
silence, excepting for the conversation of the sitters and
other movements which formed an integral part of each
seance.
Seance XXVIII.
June 11, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Sir George Beilby, B., D., F., F. D'A., W.,
and the operatcr.
Control. Before the seance W. superintended the control of
the medium, whilst during the sitting B. sat on the right
of the medium and D. on the left. At the conclusion
the control was only partial and was exercised by F. and
D. Veil AA'orn as before.
, 8.25 p.m. Seance begins.
8.30 p.m. Eva begins to groan and breathe rapidly.
8.40 p.m. Crisis continuing and augmenting. Hands have
always been separate and visible.
Note by E. The light is exceptionally
good to-night. Mme B. is sitting well
back, her knees being distant about 1| ft.
from those of the medium.
8.48 p.m. D. takes both hands. Eva is now quite
quiet again. Mme B. says that she has not
yet been properly " 'prise," although she
hoped she was going to be during the late
crisis.
8.52 p.m. D. now frees the medium's hands and they
are placed separate upon her knees.
280 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
9.10 p.m. Eva says that it is beginning.
9.25 p.m. Medium has been quite quiet all this time.
She now asks Mme B. to open the curtains
and see if there is anything. The curtains
are pulled open, but nothing is visible.
9.30 p.m. Eva insists that there is something on her
shoulder. Mme B. flashes the light on to
the medium and a small quantity of white
matter (saliva ? ) is visible on her right
shoulder.
9.42 p.m. Eva stretches out both her hands and gives
them to D.
9.45 p.m. Mme B. asks W. to put the medium into a
deeper sleep by putting his hands on her
forehead and neck. This is done and
immediately Eva begins to strain and groan,
W. still holding her inside the curtains.
A fresh crisis starts. D. is still holding
her hands.
9.51 p.m. Medium insists that there is a head : she
opens the curtains and leans forward, but
nothing is visible.
9.54 p.m. Eva is quiet again. D. puts her hands on
her knees outside the curtains. She keeps
on saying that she feels it on her left
shoulder, and Mme B. flashes on the light,
but nothing is visi])le.
9.56 p.m. Eva again takes D."s hands.
9.59 p.m. As an experiment Mme B. suggests that we
try stimulating appeals. The sitters ac-
cordingly call loudly and appealingly for
the space of three or four minutes, but
with no result, so they soon cease and all
is qiiiet again.
10.4 p.m. The curtain is now held by B. closed above
the medium's hands, which lie visible upon
her knees. She says that the phenomenon
is there.
10.7 p.m. D. resumes control of the hands.
10.15 p.m. Hands again freed, but remain visible.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 281
F. asks Mme B. if it would be a good thing
for W. to put the medium into a deeper
sleep. She agrees to the proposal, so W.
enters the cabinet to hypnotize the medium.
W. returns and reports that Eva is now in a
deep stage of hypnosis.
Eva exhibits cataleptic contractions and stiff-
ness of arms and hands : IMme B. asks
D. to make some passes in order to re-
lieve it, which he does, and Avhich she also
makes in her turn. The contraction soon
resolves and Eva again gives her hands
to D.
Hands are again freed, but remain visible.
Eva says that something is hurting her eye,
but asks us not to look at present.
Eva leans right forward and strains violently,
showing her face at the opening of the
curtain and making repeated noises and
loud retchings.
11.7 p.m. Eva is at last "pise": D. still holds both her
hands.
11.15 p.m. W. leaves, having to catch a train.
11.20 p.m. B. also leaves for the same purpose. His
place is taken by Sir George Beilby, and
the latter's seat is now occupied by F
D'A.
11.21 p.m. The curtains are opened and Mme B. points
out the phenomenon. It was too dark to
see very distinctly, but on Eva's left shoulder,
seemingly held up by her chin, appeared
to be lying an object rather like a biscuit
in shape, being round and with a rough
surface. From the hasty glance that the
sitters got of the object before the curtain
was agaiia closed it was impossible to say
definitely whether the phenomenon was inside
or outside the veil.
11.24 p.m. Curtains again opened, but nothing is now
visible.
10.20 p.m.
10.24 p.m.
10.25 p.m.
10.40 p.m.
11.5 p.m.
11.6 p.m.
282 A Series of Sittings loith Eva C. [part
11.27 p.m. Medium leans forward and Mme B. flashes
the torch on to her face. An object re-
sembUng a round flannel pen-wiper is seen
protruding from her mouth. It appears to
be blackish-grey in colour.
11.30 p.m. Eva again leans forward, and imder the light
of the torch the object looks like a mass of
grey or white " plasticine " between her teeth.
D. touches it and finds it soft and warm.
11.34: p.m. The torch is again lighted and a line of white
stuff is seen along the medium's lips which
is probably the same substance as before.
11.35 p.m. Eva leans forward and, opening her mouth,
shows that there is nothing within.
11.37 p.m. Medium again leans forward. F. D'A. said
that he saw a tuft of white stuff on Eva's
left shoulder resembling cotton wool. D.
did not see it, and F. and Sir G. Beilby
could not have seen it owing to their posi-
tion. On further examination nothing is
visible, and although the medium constantly
calls out to be inspected, nothing further is
seen. D. and F. both note several small
pieces of white substance sticking to the
veil in the neighbourhood of the mouth.
11.50 jD.m. Seance closes. On the medium leaving the
cabinet F. and D. accompany her to the
dressing-room. The veil is intact, but the
little white flecks of material are still cling-
ing to the veil and the meshes near the
mouth seem to be covered with a whitish
secretion. F. and D. carefully remove the
pieces of white substance, during which the
medium complains of faintness and at last
almost falls into Mme B.'s arms. The collected
material is put into a test-tube and re-
moved for examination. After the tights
have been taken off D. removes them to
the Secretary's room for further examina-
tion the following morning.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 283
Remarks on Seance XXVIII.
One of the most interesting features of this seance was
the appearance and subsequent collection of flecks of white
material which were observed on the veil. The micro-
scopic and chemical examination revealed the fact that
these specimens were made of wood-pulp fibres similar
to those found in cheap papers. (See Appendix I.) Mme
Bisson suggested two sources from which these specks
may have been derived. In the first place, she stated
that the medium wore certain hair papers and that a
piece may have been chewed by the medium and thus
have been ejected with the " substance." Secondly, she
said that it was possible that Eva had eaten a piece of
cake paper which had stuck in her teeth and had been
ejected in a similar manner. Specimens of all these
papers were obtained and submitted to expert analysis
with the results set forth in the appendix. When the
veil, was examined the next day a great many whitish
strands of material were found tightly adhering to the
veil which strongly resembled the fibres found on the
flecks themselves. In order to examine these strands at
greater leisure the veil was removed from the tights and
put away until a further examination could be made.
With regard to the flecks themselves, the evidence is too
scanty for any deflnite statement. If the medium con-
stantly chews paper it is remarkable that it seems to be
so seldom ejected with the materializations. It is, how-
ever, noteworthy that Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, during
his experiments with this medium, on one occasion dis-
covered some white particles on the floor of the cabinet
after a seance, which on examination also proved to be
paper. 1
Whatever the origin of this paper may have been
(and Dr. von Schrenck's explanation does not read very
convincingly), its appearance is decidedly curious, and
together with the result of the examination of the other
particles found during our sittings needs to be carefully
considered when discussing the phenomena under review.
1 Materialisationsphdnomene, Munchen, 1914, p. 333 (Eng. trans., p. 193).
284 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
Seance XXIX.
June 14, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. F., D., F., F. D'A., W., and the operatoi.
Control. Before and after, Mrs. F. and W. During the
sitting W. sat on the right of the medium and T>. on the
left.
[As the veil had been removed for the purpose of
examining the white particles adhering to it the Com-
mittee determined to do without it for the remaining
seances. The advantages attached to its removal seemed
to outweigh any that might be obtained from its con-
tinued use. It had been suggested also that it should
be dispensed Avith on the ground that, although it evi-
dently did not impede the production of small phenomena
inside it, it might have a disadvantageous effect on the
production of large ones, and that it would be preferable
to get these and study them rather than run the risk
of getting nothing more than we had had up to the
present. On arrival, however, the medium, who was
anxious to repeat under flawless conditions her feat of
producing a phenomenon first inside and tlien outside
the veil, absolutely refused to sit without it, and it was
therefore again soAvn by Mrs. Fellding and further tested
by both D. and W.]
8.53 p.m. Seance begins. Eva's hands are first held by
W. and D., and when the}" have become
accustomed to the light the medium's hands
are allowed to remain resting upon her knees.
10.20 p.m. Medium says that she feels nothing and the
seance is abandoned.
Seance XXX.
June 15, 1920.
Present. Mme B., D., F. D'A., and W.
Control. Before and after, W. Duruag the sitting W. sat
on the right of the medium and D. on the left.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 285
7.30 p.m. Seance begins. Hands held and relinquished
as usual.
8.10 p.m. Eva begins to strain and cry out : both
hands are now held by D. The attack
passes off.
9.15 p.m. Seance abandoned.
Seakoe XXXI.
June 16, 1920.
Present. Mme B., Mrs. S., B., D., F. D"A., and the op-rator.
Control. Before and after, IVIrs. S. During the sittino- B.
sat on the right of the medium and D. on the left. Veil
MTva as before, medium still refusing to sit without it on
the ground that if the phenomena then appeared the fact
would be regarded as suspicious.
7.20 p.m. Seance begins. Eva's hands are held as
usual.
7.45 p.m. D. holds the curtains together with his right
hand. The medium's hands lie visible upon
her knees. She begins to moan and groan.
7.56 p.m. More groaning on the part of the medium.
8.7 p.m. Eva begins to strain and breatlie heavily.
8.8 p.m. More straining and some retching : the hands
remain always visible.
8.9 p.m. Great straining and retching.
8.10 p.m. Medium makes a series of choking sounds.
8.12 p.m. More choking.
8.14 p.m. Crisis passes oft".
8.30 p.m. Eva says that she has " des douleurs d'estomac.'''
8.46 p.m. D. enters the cabinet and hypnotizes the
medium, putting her into a deeper sleep
by holding her forehead and the back of
her neck, and by making suggestions to her.
Whilst he is inside B. holds the medium's
hands.
8.49 p.m. D. withdraws from the cabinet and Eva's
: hands remain visible on her knees.
286 A Series of Sittings ivitk Eva C. [part
9.15 p.m. Medium asks the sitters to call for the pheno-
mena and says " ca vient."
9.17 n.m. D. touches the medium's hands.
9.19 [).m. Eva says, " Je le sens. Juliette,'^ and then
9.20 p.m. " Je le sens d la figure." Eva retches and
gives a sharp scream, " le cri du pheno-
mene."
9.25 p.m. D. holds both hands.
9.27 p.m. Heavy breathing. Eva asks for the curtains
to be closed. The hands are still held.
9.30 p.m. Eva coughs several times : the heavy breath-
ing has ceased and the hands are still held.
9.33 p.m. Stertorous breathing recommences.
9.35 p.m. The curtains are opened and a whitish object
somewhat resembling a piece of newspaper
rolled up and about two and a haK inches
in length is seen lying in the bag of the
veil near to the mouth and rather to the
left of the face. Curtain closed but almost
immediately re-opened and a sort of rough
flat face is seen hanging over the mouth,
apparently from the nose and inside the
veil. Some of the edges are apparently
turned over and the size was approximately
4 by 3 inches. The torch was turned on
momentarily several times, but not long
enough for a detailed examination to be
made.
9.41 p.m. Torch flashed on, but everything has dis-
appeared.
9.42 p.m. A further crisis appears to be setting in.
9.47 p.m. Eva says that she feels it " dans le dos."
9.50 p.m. Curtains are closed. D. still holds the
medium's hands, who starts groaning again.
She asks us to look with the torch, saying
that she feels it and that it is " une force
d'homme." Nothing however is visible.
10.0 p.m. Seance closed. At the conclusion of the
sitting the observers compared notes as to
what they had seen and a certain amount
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 287
of disagreement was expressed between them.
Owing to the rapidity with which the
phenomena followed each other, and the
difficulty of simultaneously dictating impre-
sions. it was found impossible to include
many of the details in the contemporary
notes. Mrs. Salter, who took the notes for
this seance, thereupon requested D. a few
days later to write a short account of what
seems to have occurred, and the following
is an extract from his reply. It is dated
June 19, 1920, and runs as follows :
With regard to the seance on June 16th some confusion
appears to have arisen. Some of the observers seem to have
seen four phenomena whilst others affirm that they saw only
tliree. There is also some discrepancy in the accounts given
as to the " face " which was seen upon the substance. The
following is the account of what I saw (or thought I saw)
drawn from the notes that I make after each sitting. In
this case I see that they were written down at 11.5 p.m.
the same night.
(11 I first saw a piece of substance, seemingly of a greyish
colour, rounded and pointed and about 2| to 2f ins. long.
This object was lying loose in the veil towards the medium's
left-hand side. In appearance it reminded me strongly of
the other pointed pieces of substance that have been noticed
before.
(2) The next phenomenon that I saw was a flat, yellowy
grey object of indeterminate shape lying against the medium's
right cheek. The torch was fixed on this appearance for so
short a time that I had but a fleeting glance.
(3) The third and last phenomenon that I saw was another
flat object similar to the last, but round lilie a large, thiir
Bath Oliver biscuit. This was seemingly hanging from the
medium's mouth and seemed to me to be of a waxy rather
than of a papery nature. Upon the surface there were
certain markings which gave the appearance of a " face
"
very rudelj^ drawn, or as it seemed to me at the time, indented
on the surface. Whether this was so or not, it is impossible
288 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
to say, as the torch was thro^vn upon it for too short a time
to make absolutely sure. Mr. Baggally thought he saw a
"face" on the substance which was lying against the cheek
and net on that which came from the mouth. I naturally
thought that 1 had transposed this " face " from the one to
the other in a lapse of memory, but Dr. F.urnier D'Albe
says he saw it on the object from tlie mouth in the same way
as I thought I did. Whether Mr. Baggally saw a face on
the cheek phenomenon, or whether he transposed it seems
rather difficult to determine, unless his observations are re-
corded in ycur contemporary notes. [It will be seen that
they were not.] Mme Bisson and Dr. Fcurnier D'Albe both
say that they saw a fourth phenomenon, namely a bib-like
appearance under the medium's chin, but neither Mr. Baggally
nor I apparently saw this.
Seance XXXII.
June 17, 1920.
Present. Mme B., B., D., F., F. D'A., W., and the operator.
Control. Before and after, W. During the sitting B. sat
on the right of the medium and D. on the left. Veil
as usual.
7.23 p m. Seance begins. Mme B. asks for more light
and this is accordingly increased. F. re-
ports : I can at a distance of about six
feet see very plainly each individual finger
of the medium's hands as they lie upon her
lap.
8.30 p.m. Heavy breathing begins.
8.45 p.m. Eva cries out loudly. It seemed as if the
crisis was about to come on. but nothing
happened.
!l.O p.m. All is quiet again.
9.14 p.m. At Mme B.'s request D. enters the cabinet
to hold the medium and to give her '"force."
B. holds both her hands.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 289
9.16 p.m. D. returns from the cabinet and Eva's hands
remain on her lap. They have become
rigid, and remain so about three minutes.
9.20 p.m. D. again holds Eva's hands.
9.35 p.m. At Mme B.'s suggestion W. takes D.'s place,
whilst she takes W.'s and D. hers. D.
retains his grasp of the medium's hands.
9.53 p.m. A chain is formed to try to stimulate the
phenomena. The light is slightly reduced,
i ; A long wait ensues, and, when asked, the
medium says that there is something there,
but that it does not " take " her. D. is
again asked to enter the cabinet and give
her " force, "
which he does.
10.35 p.m. Nothing has appeared and so the seance is
abandoned.
' M - Seance XXXIII.
June 18, 1920.
Present. Mine B., Mrs. F., B., D., F., H., and the operator.
Control. Before and after, Mrs. F. During the sitting B.
sat on the right of the medium and D. on the left. Veil
worn as before.
7.45 p.m. Seance begins. Medium's hands held as usual.
7.50 p.m. Mme B. changes places with H., who takes
D.'s chair, D. meanwhile taking the place
that Mme B. has just vacated.
8.7 p.m. Slight groaning begins.
8.20 p.m. All is now quiet. There were signs of an
approaching crisis, but they have passed off.
9.35 p.m. Slight groaning begins again.
9.42 p.m. B. holds Eva's hands whilst D. enters the
cabinet in order to give " force."
9.45 p.m. D. withdraws from the cabinet.
10.5 p.m. Eva says that she still feels something around
her.
10.7 p.m. Rapid breathing begins.
290 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
10.20 p.m. A crisis seems to be beginning.
10.30 p.m. Crisis appears to be developing : medium has
leant forward several times and shown her
face at the opening of the curtains. Noth-
ing is visible, and the deep, heavy and rapid
breathing continues together with straining
cries.
10.35 p.m. The crisis ceases. Medium says that " cela
me Idche.''
10.45 p.m. Eva says that she feels nothing now. The
seance is abandoned.
Seance XXXIV. .
June 21, 1920.
Present. Mme B., B., D., F., H., and the operator.
Control. There being no doctor or lady present at this
seance a partial control before and after the sitting was
alone possible. D. therefore examined the veil both
before and after the seanc?, with negative results, and also
made a cursory examination of the medium's hair, etc.,
which was also negative. During the sitting B. sat on
the right of the medium and D. on the left.
[At the previous sitting the medium has asked that in
order to meet the regurgitation theory she should be
given a cup of coffee and a biscuit immediately before
the next sitting. This was accordingly done, the medium
drinking the coffee and eating the biscuit after the tights
had been put on and just before the veil had been sewn
on by Mme B. and examined by D.]
7.57 p.m. Seance begins. Hands held as usual.
9.20 p.m. Heavy breathing. Eva leans forward and
shows her face, but nothing is visible.
Almost immediately after she leans forward
again and a stream of saliva is seen which
is dripping from her mouth through the
veil and on to her tights.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 291
9.30 p.m. More heavy breathing and then complete
silence.
9.45 p.m. A crisis seems to be developing. Medium
says that it is coming.
9.49 p.m. All is quiet again.
9.50 p.m. Eva says that she has felt something at the
tips of her lingers. Nothing is visible.
Note. The hands are visible outside the curtain and
are held by B. and D. They have remained visible from
the beginning of the seance and at times have been held
as now by B. and D.
9.53 p.m. Eva opens the curtains and calls out, Aide-
moi, nia Juliette. Je le sens.'' The cur-
tains are opened wide, but nothing is visible.
9.54 p.m. The heavy deep breathing begins again.
9.59 p.m. Eva leans forward. A white strip about
5 inches long by -\ to h inch in breadth
is seen inside the veil. It extends perpen-
dicularly from just above her nose to the
bottom of her chin. The curtain is closed
again immediately.^
10.30 p.m. Nothing further has happened. Mme B. gives
us an account of some remarkable pheno-
mena which occurred in Paris, and says
that it is a good thing to speak of the
phenomena during the seances. The sitters
encourage the medium, urging the " intelli-
gence to show itself.
•^
In D.'s account, drawn from notes made at 12.45 a.m. on June 22,
1920, this phenomenon is described thus :
" A white line of foamy
matter rising from the middle of the right-hand side of the nose toward
the eye. The medium, whilst showing it to us, declared that it was
moving upwards by itself, and was supported in this by Mme Bisson.
None of the other observers however confirmed this observation." From
the above it is evident that D. saw the white strip in a different
position from that described in the contemporary record. It had
apparently risen to a certain extent, although there seems to be no
evidence that it had done so by itself as asserted by both the medium
and Mme Bisson. What probably occurred was that the veil had
been pulled up somewhat, thus giving the impression that the strip,
which showed up strongly on the black mesh, was moving upwards
by itself.
292 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
Still nothing. F. asks Mme B. to trj^ the
effect of taking the medium's hands. For
some time she says that it is useless, but at
last does so. The medium's hands remain
outside the curtain. Mme B. urges and
encourages her. She makes great efforts
and a crisis seems to be beginning again.
Eva leans forward and shows herself, but
nothing is visible.
Medium again leans forward. " Tu le vois,
tna Juliette i
" Nothing is visible.
Eva leans forward again twice. Something
white appears to be hanging from her nose.
Medium again leans forward several times and
shows what to B. and F. seems to be a
white object standing out horizontally
from the tip of her nose as far as the veil.
This appearance is about \h inches in length.
D. and H. do not agree with B. and F. as
to the appearance of the object. They say
that it was nothing but foamy matter
adhering to the veil exactly opposite the
nose.
Note. D.'s record reads thus :
" On the medium's
nose appeared what seemed to some of the observers to
be a piece of substance apparently growing out of the tip.
Messrs. Feilding and Baggally and Mme Bisson apparently
agree as to this, but H. and D. are of a different opinion.
The substance was a foamy mass of saliva adhering to
the veil and opposite the tip of the nose. When the veil
fell over the nose the appearance naturally seemed part
of the feature, but when the head was projected forwards
I distinctly saw a space of at least half an inch between
the substance and the nose. Even when the veil was
away from the nose those opposite could not see the
space, and this I believe caused the illusion."
11.2 p.m. Eva leans forward again, but nothing is visible.
The torch is flashed on her, but still
nothing is seen.
10.45 p.m.
10.53 p.m.
10.55 p.m.
10.57 p.m.
10.59 p.m.
A Series of Siitings with Eva C. 293
Medhim constantly cries out, saying that it
hurts her, and leans forward. Nothing is
visible.
Very stertorous breathing begins. Mme B.
is still holding Eva's hands, which remain
always visible. D. now takes them.
The curtains are held wide open for haK a
minute by Mme B. Medium protests saying,
' PerInez ma maison.'' Nothing has been
seen.
The stertorous breathing has continued. Mme
B. says she is sure that there is something
there and begs it to show itself.
The torch is flashed on the medium's face to
see if anything is visible. An object some-
what resembling a court, plaster, irregular
in shape and about 2 inches square, is seen
covering the medium's left eye.
Note. D.'s record reads : " A discoloured whitish
yellowy patch rather the shape of an eye-protector was
seen covering the left eye."
11.21 p.m. Eva again leans forward and the torch is
flashed on to her. The same or a similar
thing is seen hanging in the veil. D. says
that it is a terra-cotta red face nearly
upside down resembling a cardboard picture
in black made out of a rough wood block.
Shortly afterwards the torch was again
flashed on and the object was seen more
than half drawn in to the mouth. Later
nothing was seen.
Note. D.'s record reads :
" A rounded oval object similar in size and shape to
the '
eye patch '
was seen lying in the veil towards the
right-hand side. Mme B. immediately threw, the torcli
on it, and twisting my head round I saw what it was.
The surface ground colour was a brick red and on it
were the features of a human face as if printed from a
rude wood block. These were in black, and were, I think,
LXXXIV.]
11.6 p.m.
11.9 p.m.
11.12 p.m.
11.16 p.m.
11.20 p.m.
294 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
of too regular a nature to be drawn, but looked as if
they had been actually printed. This head was exactly
like the heads of those flat toy cardboard figures which
used to be popular amongst children and are now occa-
sionally used for advertising purposes. After the torch
had been on the appearance for about ten seconds the
medium lowered her head calling out 'Juliette I
0,
Juliette '
! until shrinking back into her chair and covering
the object still more ; the torch was put out and the
object vanished."
11.25 p.m. Stertorous breathing and panting continue as
if a further effort to start the phenomena
again were being made.
11.29 p.m. Torch flashed on, but nothing is visible.
Eva is lying with her head back and her
face against the top of the chair. D.
and B. are holding her hands.
11.32 p.m. Medium asks for the torch to be lighted
saying, " Allume I
" She is carefully ex-
amined with the torch, but nothing is seen.
This is done three times, but without result.
11.35 p.m. Eva says that it is in her mouth, and asks
if she may take it out with her hands.
She puts her hands up to her mouth, D.
still holding her wrists. She gradually
pulls the object out of her mouth whilst
Mme B. throws the light of the torch upon
it. It looks like a membrane or oilskin.
Suddenly it disappears whilst the light is
on it.
Note. D."s record reads :
" The medium asked D., who was holding her hands at
the time, to allow her to take the substance out of her
mouth as she felt a piece was inside. This was immedi-
ately granted and the following then took place. Putting
her hands (still controlled by D.) up to her mouth she
began to manipulate through the veil an object which was
slowly pushed out of the mouth. The torch was immedi-
ately turned on and the following operation then took
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 295
place. The whole process was distinctly visible, my own
eyes I should say being less than six inches from the
medium's mouth. Slowly being worked and pulled out of
the mouth was what looked like a ragged strip or strips
of thin semi-transparent membrane of a highly elastic
nature. The nearest normal substance would be a ragged
longish piece of very thin white rubber or gold-beaters'
skin. This was pulled, moulded, and worked b}^ the
fingers in the neighbourhood of the mouth, finally ap-
parently disappearing in a most curious manner."
11.40 p.m. Light is again flashed on, but nothing is
visible. Sitting closed.
Remarks on Seance XXXIV.
The thirty-fourth seance was one of the most remark-
able of all those held by the Society. From certain
points of view some of the phenomena appeared exceed-
ingly suspicious and indicative of fraud or at the least
of trance-deception. It should be said that the dis-
appearance of the membrane was consistent with a well-
known method of "vanishing objects" which is familiar to
magicians. These incidents will be found fully discussed
in the section of the report devoted to fraud (pp. 309-331)
and we need not recapitulate them here. One point
however seems to be worthy of special attention. It will
be remembered that during the seance of Friday, May 21,
1920, an object was observed hanging from the medium's
mouth upon which appeared to be drawn the outline of a
rudely executed face in black chalk. On the photograph
being taken and developed no trace of the roughly drawn
face appears, but instead there is seen v/hat looks like a
small photograph of a man. There seem to be two
explanations of this curious phenomenon. Either the
small photograph developed from the rough face which
was first observed, or it was already at the hack of it, the
medium turning it round between the time that the first
face was observed and the taking of the photograph by
the flash. The appearance of the eye-patch in to-day's
sitting, taken in conjunction with the rude face seen
296 A Series of Sittings ivifh Eva C. [part
inside the veil, rather leads one to suppose that the latter
is the more probable alternative. There can be little
doubt that the eye patch and the face seen in the veil
Avere the same object, the first quite naturally falling
down into the veil from its former position over the
eye. In this case we must assume that the eye-patch
was really the back of the face and what was seen in
the veil was the front of the same object. How far
these conclusions throw any light on the origin and
nature of the phenomena it is difficult to say, it being
merely sufficient here to indicate briefly the circumstances
which gave rise to such conjectures.
#
Seance XXXV.
June 23, 1920.
'
Present. Mme B., Dr. Wereide, B., D., F., H., W., and the
operator.
Control. Before and after, W. During the sitting B. sat
on the right of the medium and D. on the left. Veil
worn as before.
[Owing to the success which had attended the holding
of the medium's hands by Mme Bisson at the previous
seance, it was agreed that henceforth she should be allowed
to resume her role of thus taking the medium's hands
when required, as she had been accustomed to do in
Paris. Up till the present sitting Mme Bisson had by
her own wish refrained from touching the medium's hands
after the first hypnotization except upon one or two
special occasions.]
7.47 p.m. Seance begins. Hands held as usual by B.
and D.
8.30 p.m. Medium calls attention to some saliva upon
her left knee.
8.40 p.m. Mme B. takes the medium's hands and begins
to encourage her saying, " Allans ! Allons !
Venez ! Venez !
" etc. As nothing occurs
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sitfmgs ivith Eva C. 297
she replaces Eva s hands on her knees, which
-
remain visible outside the curtains.
9.30 p.m. Eva says that she feels nothing.
10.0 p.m. Sitting closed as the medium still feels nothing.
Seance XXXVI.
JiDie 24, 1920.
Present. Mme B., D., F., F. D'A., H. The photographic
operator was not present at this sitting.
Control. There being no doctor or lady present the control
before and after the seance was only partial as on June 21.
The condition of the veil was as usual examined before
the sitting, and during the seance H. sat on the right of
the medium and D. on the left.
[Before the sitting Mme Bisson said that she preferred
to continue the seances with the veil until the last two
sittings in the hope that certain of the phenomena would
penetrate it. If, however, they failed to do so she sug-
gested that the last two sittings should be held without
the veil.]
7.45 p.m. Seance begins.
8.6 p.m. Medium says that "it is there."
8.14 p.m. Stertorous breathing begins and a crisis seems
to be approaching. Mme B. encourages the
medium, saying, " Allons ! Donnez !
"'
etc.
8.22 p.m. Eva leans forward to show herself. D. re-
ports that her comb has fallen from her
hair and is hanging in the veil. F. sug-
gests that Mme B. should replace it as it
gets in the way. She tries to do so, but
'
on feeling the veil says that the comb is
not there and the veil itself is soaking wet
(" tmit trempe "'). D. says that he certainly
saw something in the veil, but Eva says
that it is not the comb. We do not use
the torch for fear of interrupting the
possible development of the phenomenon.
298 A Series of Siftings with Eva C. [part
8.29 p.m. Mme B. takes the red light ^ and holds it
near to the medium, but nothing is visible.
8.30 p.m. H. says that something is coming from the
medium's mouth like froth and is falling
on to her breast. The crisis continues and
seems to be increasing in intensity.
8.40 p.m. Crisis appears to be weakening.
9.0 p.m. Crisis seems to be recommencing.
9.3 p.m. Medium leans forward and says, " Regardez !
"
Nothing is visible.
9.8 p.m. Eva becomes quiet again.
9.12 p.m. Medium again says that it is coming.
9.19 p.m. Eva insists that something is there, and bring-
ing the left side of her face forward shows
it. The torch is turned on, but nothing is
seen.
9.40 p.m. Eva again leans forward, but still nothing is
visible.
9.53 p.m. Medium complains that her comb has fallen
inside her veil. Mme B. replaces it in
her hair and the crisis recommences im-
mediately.
9.55 p.m. Eva leans forward to show herself, but nothing
is visible.
9.59 p.m. Eva asks D. to give her ''force." D. accord-
ingly enters the cabinet and holds the
medium's forehead and neck whilst H.
controls her hands. Very rapid breathing
follows and D. soon withdraws from the
cabinet.
10.2 p.m. Crisis returns. Eva leans forward and the
torch is flashed on her, but nothing is
visible.
10.6 p.m. Crisis continues. Mme B. takes Eva's hands,
who leans forward and shows herself, but
again notliing is visible.
^ This refers to the ruby electric bulb covered with a dark cloth
which lay on the table at which the observer sat who was taking the
notes. This was usually kept burning during the seances, except
occasionally during the long periods of waiting, when it was turned out.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 299
10.9 p.m. Medium again leans forward, but nothing is
seen.
10.10 p.m. Medium again leans forward and the torch is
flashed on her, but nothing is visible.
10.11 p.m. Eva leans forward and the curtains are
opened, but nothing is visible.
10.12 p.m. Medium repeats several times, " I feel it ! I
feel it !
"
10.14 p.m. Medium bends forward and Mme B. feels her
veil and reports that her hair and slides
have fallen down into the veil.
10.16 p.m. Eva again leans forward, but nothing is seen.
10.17 p.m. She does so again with the same result.
10.19 p.m. Eva says Regardez ma bouche." The light
from the torch is cast into her mouth, but
nothing is seen within.
10.20 p.m. D. says that the medium keeps plucking at
her tights in front as if to free something.
Eva says that she feels it all over her,"
but nothing is yet visible.
10.34 p.m. Mme B. says that she thinks the medium's
nose is whiter than it ought to be and
something is probably preparing there.
10.39 p.m. Medium screams.
10.40 p.m. A white object is seen in Eva's mouth.
D. and H. both touch it. It is like the
round and pointed end of a pencil in ap-
pearance, but is not hard, but soft and
' resilient like a piece of oilskin rolled up.
Shortly afterwards she says Eclairez,''
and on turning on the torch a mass of
white stuff is seen lying along the upper
lip.
10.44 p.m. Eva asks D. to pull the object out of her
mouth, but he feels nothing. Then she
opens her mouth wide and we see a mass
of substance like chewed candle grease
lying on her tongue.
10.47 p.m. Eva puts her hands up to her mouth and
pulls out of it a strip of elastic-looking
300 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
stuff about four inches long and half an
inch broad. It is twisted in appearance
and sandy in colour, except where it is
stretched out ; this part is lighter in shade.^
Mme B. rapidlj^ cuts off the veil so that
we can examine it better.
10.54 p.m. Eva leans forward and pulls a sort of mem-
brane-like substance from her mouth with
both hands. Whilst she is doing so the
light from the torch is cast directly upon it.
10.55 p.m. Eva continues to pull and mould the mem-
brane.
10.56 p.m. The substance disappears and she says it has
gone.
10.57 p.m. Seance closes. With the help of Mme B.
and under cover of the medium's frock the
tights were immediately removed and ex-
amined by the observers, although with
negative results.
Remarks on Seance XXXVl.
Although the phenomena obtained at this sitting were
small and insignificant and only appeared after a pro-
tracted period of waiting, the reappearance of the mem-
brane-like substance which had formerly been observed
on June 21 permitted the investigators to studj'^ it in
greater detail than was possible on the previous occasion.
When pulled out of the mouth it appeared to be highly
elastic and was drawn down in two directions thus :
When stretched out it extended to about half an inch
below the level of the medium's chin, and D. on feeling
it said that to the touch it exactly resembled a piece of
1 The twisted cord seen on this occasion strongly resembled that
photographed by Mme Bisson on May .31, 1913, and reproduced in
her book. Fig. 164.
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings loith Eva C. 301
some animal membrane. When it was being pulled out
sideways he noticed that in texture it was semi-trans-
parent and that its surface seemed to be perforated by
minute holes the size of pin-pricks. At the conclusion it
was brought up to the medium's mouth and vanished, the
mouth being almost immediately opened in order to show
that it had disappeared.
Another interesting point in connection with the sitting
was the number of times the mediiim declared that the
phenomena were present, when they were invisible to the
spectators. Accepting the theory of materialization the
incident might perhaps be accounted for by assuming tliat
in their early stages the phenomena are cloudy or semi-
fluidic, thus being invisible to any but the medium herself.
During the process of development, the guess might be
hazarded, these cloud-like formations slowly solidify,
and in time become the dense material objects which
constitute the actual phenomena as they are observed
by the investigators. Experiments conducted on a large
scale would be necessary before these points could be
finally elucidated.
Seance XXXVII.
June 25, 1920.
Present. Mme B., B., D., F., H., and the operator.
Control. As there was neither a doctoi nor lady present the
control was only partial, as on former occasions. No veil
was worn at this sitting, the medium's ears, mouth, etc.,
being examined by D. During the seance B. sat on the
right of the medium and D. on the left.
7.50 p.m. Seance begins.
9.40 p.m. All has been quiet till now. Mme B. says
that she has seen some luminous spots on
the curtains and that it is the first time
that she has seen them in England. They
nearly always indicate a good seance.
10.25 p.m. The medium says that she does not feel
,
anything and the sitting is abandoned.
302 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
Seance XXXVIIT.
June 26, 1920.
Present. Mme B., D., F., F. D'A., and the operator.
Control. A partial control only as before. During the
sitting F. D'A. sat on the right of the medium and D.
on the left. No veil
4.22 p.m. Seance begins.
5.15 p.m. Eva begins to take a series of long breaths :
she says that the phenomena are going to
come. A period of quiet supervenes.
6.5 p.m. A cold wind comes strongly out from between
the parting of the curtains. A crisis is
developing and the breeze continues at
intervals. D. puts his hand down to the
medium's feet and notes that although the
wind cannot be felt, there is a distinct
sensation of cold.
6.33 p.m. Eva holds her hands out in front of the
curtains and pulls out between them a
dark-coloured substance. It looks to me
[i.e. E. who is taking the notes] like a sort
of dark veil. Suddenly a white thing appeared
in the middle of the darker stuff and then
shot out to the tips of the fingers. Mme B.
turns the white light on to it and it now
looks to me like a woolly medallion or
" Agnus Dei," oval and measuring about
2 X 1 in. A tag of wool is hanging from
it, and under the woolly surface is a face
apparently in slight relief. The light being
kept on, the medium made a quick gesture
inwards, and it disappeared, the medium's
hands Ijeing free at this moment.
After the seance D. said that to him the substance
looked like a dark grey membrane similar to that observed
on June 24. To him and also to F. D'A., and the
operator the substance appeared semi-porous and with
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva G. 303
several perforations. F. D"A. said tliat it was about an
eighth of an inch thick, and D. managed to feel it twice.
First of all at an earlier stage, when it was still invisible,
he felt a single tough thread between the medium's haiads.
Then at a later stage, when he touched it, it felt like a
membrane, but dry, rather like thin parchment.
D.'s account, taken from notes made immediately after
the sitting and written out two days later, read as
follows :
The medium began to work her hands about outside
the curtain as if drawing something from the fingers.
I passed my own finger through the opening between hers
and felt what seemed like a strong, tough, elastic thread.
On my coming in contact with it the medium shuddered
and drew back, the hands, however, remaining in full
view. The drawing of the fingers now continued and I
then saw a greyish thread between them Avhich, when
worked about, soon assumed the shape of an irregular
piece of membrane. I then seemed to see what I can
only describe as a white flash, when the medium opened
her hands and showed a most curious object lying between
them. It was something like a medallion in shape, about
2| ins. by 1 inch in size, and as I saw it, it seemed
made of thick skin, dark grey in colour. On the surface
were two white patches, one as big as a penny, and the
other smaller, and more oval in appearance. F. says
that he saw a small full face on the under surface, but
I did not see this. We had the torch full on it till the
medium drew back complaining, and then it suddenly
vanished.
6.37 p.m. D. and F. D A. say that a white object is
hanging from the medium's mouth. It is
in shape rather like an icicle, about four
inches in length and with more than one
tag giving the appearance of a sort of
beard. The cameras are prepared and a
photo is taken. After the flash the torch
is turned on and the object is examined.
. It looks to me {i.e. F.) like a triangular
304 A Series of Sittings with Eva G. [part
piece of medical bandage with a tag hanging
from it and attached to the medium's
upper lip. D. saw it closer and says that
it showed a coloured face in semi-profile
upon it. The cheeks were pink, the eyes
blue and the general background grey.
F. D'A. saw only a coloured pattern, but
did not distinguish a face. Eva shrinks
back in her chair. She requests an
immediate mouth control, which is refused
in the hope of further development.
D.'s account reads :
On opening the curtains again I saw hanging from the
medium's mouth two or three threads, from one of which
a whitish blob was suspended, giving a grotesque appear-
ance. A photo was taken.
When I looked again, I saw a roundish-shaped object
hanging from the medium's mouth. Torch was turned
on to it, and I saw a piece of greyish-white membrane,
upon which was a female face. It reminded me of
Fig. 7 in Geley's book and was in colours. The cheeks
were pinkish red, the eyes bluish and the other features
drawn in dark grey or black. The face was flat and
about two inches by one and a quarter in size. After
the torch had been turned off the object vanished.
7.45 p.m. Eva shows something within her mouth which
she says is a finger. The torch was not
flashed upon it, and so it could not be seen
distinctly. It resembled a curved piece of
white substance like a candle. The cameras
were again prepared and a photo was
taken. The object then vanished.
7.49 p.m. A membrane appears between the medium's
fingers whilst D. is holding her hands.
Her fingers are quite outside the cabinet
and the light of the torch is thrown upon
the material. It suddenly vanished. D.
was holding the medium's hands open, the
four fingers being between his thumb and
IXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 305
fingers, thus leaving the ends of the medium's
fingers free. The membrane disappeared
suddenly whilst the hands were still being
held, a slight upward jerk being given by
the medium at the moment of the dis-
appearance, whilst the substance was being
played about with. Whilst this was going
on F. D'A. felt Eva's lips, as she had
turned towards him for the purpose. He
felt nothing unusual. Mme B. says that
the force is extremely good and that some-
thing ought to be able to show itself at
the curtain. The torch, however, has some-
what impeded its development.
D.'s account reads :
" The medium asked me to hold her hands, which I did,
my fingers being next to her palms and my thumbs on
the top of her hands. This allowed her fingers free play,
and soon they began to move as before with a drawing
motion. A greyish thread now began to be drawn out
from the fingers, and, as before, it soon formed into a
membrane. I touched it. It felt like a piece of soft,
smooth rubber. The medium half put it into my hands,
whilst we observed it with the torch. Whilst she was
working it about, she asked Dr. Fournier D'Albe to
examine her mouth. This he did without the torch, and
tells me that he felt all round the medium's lips, but did
not come into contact with a thread of any kind. Soon
after, whilst I was still holding the hands, the membrane
vanished with an upward jerk, the medium immediately
-showing both hands empty, saying, '
C'est fini.' The seance
then closed."
7.57 p.m. In order to produce an effect of confidence
in the medium the torch is put away
altogether and we let her hear us do it,
hoping for bigger phenomena.
7.58 p.m. Eva groans and gives a sudden shudder
saying, " it's gone !
" Seance closes.
X
306 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [fart
Remarks on Seance XXXVIII.
This seance was undoubtedly the most mterestmg of all
those held under the auspices of the Society. In the
variety and character of the phenomena the sitting was
easily the most valuable from the evidential point of view,
although it was but poor when considered in comparison
with those formerly held in Munich and Paris. The cold
breeze, which was felt by all present and which is so
common an accompaniment of mecliumistic phenomena, was
noticed for the first and only time, although it had been
several times recorded by Mme Bisson and the previous
investigators. The sudden disappearance of the membrane
from between the fingers whilst the hands were being
held was an exceptionally good piece of evidence for the
supernormal character of the phenomena, although it
might have been conceivably accomplished by normal
means, as discussed elsewhere. Unfortunately, the pheno-
mena were far too small and fragmentary to furnish any
connected story as to their origin and development.
The two photographs when developed and printed
showed almost precisely what the observers had noticed,
except that in the first photograph the face is shown
quite clearly, whereas the sitters only saw the face after the
photograph had been taken (Plate VII.). The medium is
shown leaning back in her chair, whilst her two hands are
tightly grasping the parted curtains of the cabinet. Some
stray locks of hair have fallen over her face, whilst from
her mouth hangs what looks like a small flat face seen
in semi-profile. Below is a sort of oval flap, or what
Dr. Geley calls U7i corps emhryonnaire, which is about the
same size as the head and in which a fold is clearly
discernible. At the right edge of the flap and seemingly
hanging down from a part of the face is a strip of dark
substance which descends to about two inches below the
neck of the tights.
The second photograph is unfortunately blurred and is
therefore not suitable for reproduction. It shows the
medium leaning forward slightly, whilst from her chin is
apparently protruding a white finger-like object, which is
Plate VII.
Lxxxn'.] A Series of Sittings vnth Eva C. 307
much bent, so that the jooi'tion which extends from about
one and a half mches from the tip is pointing downwards
towards the groimd. In appearance the object strongly
resembles those other waxy, pointed objects which had
been observed on previous occasions.
SEA2S-CE XXXIX.
June 28, 1920.
Present. Mme B.. 3Irs. Baggally. :\Irs. F., Dr. Gates, B.. D.,
F., F. D'A., and the oioerator.
Control. Before the seance 3Irs. F. controlled the medium
whilst during the sitting B. sat on the right of the medium
and D. on the left. Xo veil was worn and there was no
control after the seance.
7.47 p.m. Seance beguxs.
10.0 p.m. Eva says that she feels nothing, and the
seance is abandoned.
Seance XL.
June 29, 1920.
Pre-ienf. :\Ime B.. :\Irs. Baggally. Mrs. F., Dr. Gates, B., D.,
F., F. D"A., and the operator.
Co>"TEOL. As in the previous sitting.
7.2.3 p.m. Seance begins.
7.4.5 p.m. Eva begms to groan slightly, but is soon
quiet agam.
7.58 p.m. Groaning begins again together -nith a sort of
humming noise on the part of the medium.
8.7 p.m. " Cela va venire
8.12 p.m. Eva says that she feels the curtain damp
just over her knee. D. and Dr. Gates feel
it and find that it is so. Mme B. thinks
that this mdicates that the " substance " is
coming from the knees.
308 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part lxxxiv.]
8.45 p.m. Indications of heavy breathing begin.
8.52 p.m. " A'ppelle, Jtdiette:'
8.55 p.m. Mme B. takes Eva's hands and tries to
stimulate her, bnt without result, so she
gives it vip and replaces the medium's hands
on her knees.
9.50 p.m. D. enters the cabinet to put the medium into
a deeper stage of hypnosis. When he
returns her right hand is rigid, but it
gradually relaxes.
10.3 p.m. The sitters endeavour to stimulate the medium
by calling in chorus, " Venez, venez, venezl"
etc.
10.5 p.m. A cool breeze seems to come from between
the hands of the medium. D. thinks that
it is caused by the medium's own breath.
10.6 p.m. Heavy breathing begins, but soon subsides.
10.35 p.m. F. D'A. takes Mme B.'s place and, holding
the medium's hands, tries to give her
" force," but she refuses to permit him to
hold her hands.
10.37 p.m. D. now tries to hold Eva's hands and Mme B.
and F. D'A. resume their former places.
11.0 p.m. F. and Mrs. F. leave. F. D'A. changes his
position and now sits behind Mrs. Baggally,
who is seated at the side of B. D. releases
the medium's hands, which now rest upon
her knees.
11.4 p.m. The sitters again make a general appeal, but
without any result.
11.5 p.m. " Qa ne vient pas''
11.9 p.m. Seance closes.
Remaeks on Seance XL.
This sitting was the last of those which had been
arranged for by the Society. On the following day Mme
Bisson and the medium left England and returned to
Paris.
CHAPTER III.
THE HYPOTHESIS OF FPvAUD.
By E. J. Dingwall.
There have been few phenomena in the history of
psychical research which have been more prodvictive of
fraud than materiahzations. In the early days, when
full form " phantoms " were common in the seance rooms,
fraud must have been extensive^ employed, as it is still
to-day in many parts of the United States. Test
conditions were little understood, and the necessity of a
stringent control scarcely realized. Conditions are, how-
ever, rapidly changing, not only in the general character
of the materializations, but also in the methods of con-
trolling the mediums. The question of fraud, however,
still remains a thorny obstacle in the path of any elaborate
scientific investigation. Scientific men are not usually
acquainted with deceptive psychology and the scope of
misdirection, whilst their training in no way fits them
to detect suspicious movements or manipulations. In
this connexion the phenomena of materialization offer a
more than usually complicated field in which the senses
are peculiarly liable to illusions of every kind.
Amongst those materializing mediums who have most
unreservedly offered themselves for scientific investigation,
Eva C. is a distinguished example. I shall not attempt
to discuss here the difficulties associated with the experi-
ments at the Villa Carmen and the identity of Bien-Boa.
The present series of sittings were concerned solely with
the later phase of Eva's mediumship, and although the
Bien-Boa case has certain points of affinity with Eva's
later efforts, this is not the place to discuss them. The
309
310 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
investigation of Eva C.'s alleged mediumistic power can
be divided naturally into four main groups :
(a) The investigations of Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing.
{h) The personal observations of her protectress, Mme
Juliette Alexandre-Bisson.
(c) The investigations of Dr. Geley.
{d) The investigation of the English Society for Psychical
Eesearch.
In order to gauge accurately the true weight of the
hypothesis that fraud only is at work, 1 jiropose to deal
with these four series of observations in order, detailing
points of interest as they occur, and trying to indicate the
extraordinary difficulties which confront this hypothesis.
Before commencing, however, it is necessary to consider
one objection which will immediately be raised. That
question is of course concerning the position of Mme
Bisson. However distasteful such a subject may be,
it seems quite obvious that it must be met, and Mme
Bisson herself would be the first to recognize it. In the
first place, it is well to state clearly the impression that
Mme Bisson made upon the S.P.R. Committee and upon
those of the members who were privileged to meet her.
Deeply interested in psychic phenomena, she appeared to
us a woman of high intellectual attainments and j)ossessed
Avith a genuine love of scientific inquiry. A passionate
believer in the genuine character of Eva's mediumship,
her Gallic temperament appeared at times to overrule her
scientific prudence, especially when she thought that scepti-
cism had reached its limits. It need scarcely be said
that not a shred or particle of evidence exists which
implicates Mme Bisson in any way Avhatsoever with the
alleged fraudulent aspect of the phenomena of Eva C.
During the preceding investigations Mme Bisson had
attended the sittings, not only as a privileged observer,
but as the sole director of the proceedings.
Generally speaking she encourages and supports Eva
during the sittings, the medium being so dependent on
her that she refuses to sit unless her protectress is
present. Whatever we may think of these conditions,
it seemed clear to the Committee that no sittings would
xxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 311
have been possible unless jMme Bisson had been per-
mitted to take her accustomed place. Such indeed
were the actual conditions which were accepted hy the
Society before the arrival of Mme Bisson and the medium
in this country. It -will be seen that owing to some
suggestions offered by Mme Bisson herself, the Committee
instituted for a time a "partial control of her. The
Society was faced with the dilemma of either having no
investigation at all, or of accepting those conditions Avhich
had been customary with previous investigators. Of the
two alternatives they chose the latter.
It may be thought by some that such conditions were
xinfortunate and that certainty is never likely to be
attained as long as either (a) Mme Bisson remains an
observer, or (6) she does not subject herself to that
degree of control that may be deemed to be necessary.
Whatever may be the truth of this point of view, it
must be understood that I am here dealing primarily
"with the case of the medium herself.
As regards any part which those unacquainted with
Mme Bisson may suppose her to play, I can only record
that although she was not subjected to the same rigorous
control as was the medium, nothing ever arose to give
grounds for the slightest susj)icion, or for the supposition
that her role was otherwise than that of an independent
observer deeply interested in the phenomena and sacrificing
jnuch time, patience, and money in the study of them.
The Investigations of Baron von Schrenck-Notzing.
In the course of his researches Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing became entirely convinced as to the reality of
Eva's phenomena. The objectivity of the materializations
was assured by the use of photographic apparatus, and
according to the Baron himself fraud ^ was prevented
through the stringent control he exercised. Indeed, this
^ Although strictly speaking fraud cannot be attributed to persons
in trance, I use the word for the sake of convenience as its meaning is
generally understood. The reality of Eva's hypnotic state is, I think,
:not generally questioned.
312 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
is in reality his main argument. Because he had never
found anything suspicious on the medium's person during
the searching, " the honesty of the medium is therefore
not a probability, but a certainty placed beyond all
question " {Materialisations-Phdnomene, p. 495, Eng. Trans.,
p. 275). We must now endeavour to ascertain how far
such a statement is true. The point in which I
am personally interested is as to the extent of Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing's knowledge of those methods commonly
used by magicians (especially handcuff performers) ior
concealing their apparatus when in a nude condition.
With all due deference to Baron von Schrenck's scientific
attainments, I cannot help asking myself whether he is
capable of detecting fraudulent manipulations during the
control before and after the seances. As far as I know,
no one fully acquainted with trick methods has ever
assisted at this all-important control, for the simple
reason that experts in this branch of magic are rarely
medical men or women. The advantage of being a
female medium therefore is obvious and cannot be wholly
ignored.^ During many of the sittings Dr. von Sclirenck-
Notzing admits that the medium used her hands in order
to arrange the phenomena and to fix them up so that
they could be easily observed (Eng. Trans., p. 265).
Indeed, he even surmises that these phenomena, which
according to his hypothesis were formed ideoplastically
out of the medium's own organism, have been affixed to
the walls and curtains of the cabinet by means of pins
(p. 263) ! Thus on August 21, 1912, Dr. A. drew his
attention to a whole series of pin holes on the left-hand
curtain and also at the back of the cabinet. Dr. von Schrenck
is at pains to explain the existence of these pin holes,
which corresponded roughly to the position of the materiali-
zations. He points out that his photographer had pinned
a piece of newspaper to the curtain when focusing the
cameras and that this might account for the holes. He
also finds refuge in his former theory that " the con-
1 This objection naturally applies to all investigations (our own included)
where the control before and after the seances is exercised by persons
unacquainted with the principles of misdirection.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 313
ditions under which the sittings took place excluded the
introduction of pictures and other objects." Now the
first thing that must strike even the most casual reader
is that Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing did not discover the pin
holes. These were found hy a visitor, Dr. A., who was
compelled to point them out to the Baron. If, therefore.
Dr. von Schrenck had not even succeeded in discovering
" groups of pin holes in pairs," just where materializations
had appeared and inside the cabinet, which he could have
examined at leisure, is it too much to suppose that he
failed to discover the pins, assuming that they had been
surreptitiously introduced ? I confess that I do not
find it difficult to assume that the pins were introduced
by Eva before the seance and taken away again after it
was over. Granting that this was possible, is it too far-
fetched a theory to suppose that certain of the materiali-
zations were brought in and taken out by precisely those
deceptive movements which would be necessary under the
circumstances 1 The methods for concealing such objects
are manifold and it would be impossible to detail them
here. But it may be understood that if it is a fact
that nothing is concealed where it might be easily dis-
covered, as, for example, under the arms, some other
hiding place would have to be employed. A gynaeco-
logical and rectal examination would reveal any foreign
body thus concealed, but an insistence on such an
examination could not of course be too often made. Nor
would there be any need for such a control if the tights
were always sound and free from holes. At the seances
held by the Society several holes were found in the
tights, one as big as a threepenny piece and in the
region of the genitals. Whether these were due to the
wicker work of the chair tearing the material or to other
reasons it is difficult to say, the Committee favouring
strongly the former explanation. When discovered (May
23, 1920) they were sewn up with white thread, and no
further ones appeared. The point, however, to be insisted
on, is how far this careful inspection and repair of the
tights were carried on by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing and
the other investigators. Once the tights are sound.
31-4 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
control is comparatively simple, and nothing could in any
way be found objectionable by the medium even in its
most severe application.
On August 30, 1912, during the examination of the
cabinet after the seance some small white particles, the
largest of which was the size of a pea, were found on
the floor, and inside tlie tights fine dust was discovered
adhering to the material. On examination these particles
were found to consist of paper, the existence of which
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing explains by assuming that a
sitter had brought them in and left them in the cabinet,
as they gave the impression of having been crushed by
a shoe. He explains the dust in the tights (which proved
to be composed of wood fibre) by suggesting that the
garment had fallen on the floor and gathered some dust.
As far as I know this was the only occasion when
paper, or a product closely resembling paper, was dis-
covered by Dr. von iSchrenck-Notzing.
As will be seen from the detailed report, the S.P.R.
Committee found paper on no less than four separate
occasions,^ and on at least one of these it was perfectly
clear that the paper came from the medium's mouth.
The explanation given by Mme Bisson for this discovery
is that Eva is accustomed to wear hair papers and that
a piece may have fallen into her moiith and stuck in her
teeth. Another theory which Mme Bisson brought
forward was that a piece of cake paper had likewise got
stuck in the medium's teeth and had been ejected in the
course of the materializing process. Whatever we may
thiiik of these theories, it seems quite clear that there
are some groimds for suspecting the genuine character
of the phenomena. I shall not attempt to examine
afresh the case of the Miroir portraits. Mrs. Salter has
already given a clear account of the circumstances in the
Proceedings of July, 1914, and it woidd serve no useful
purpose to recapitulate them here. In the case of the
head of President Wilson, Dr. von Schrenck admits that
the materialization shows unmistakable signs of folding,
and he has successfully cut out the picture and folded it
1 On May 23, June 4, June 7 and June 11.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 315
lip, thus demonstrating that the creases fit accurately
(Eng. Trans., p. 220).
It would be useless to criticize this incident without
having seen exactly Avhat took place, and reading Mme
Bisson's account of the same occurrence will not be likely
to assist us in coming to any satisfactory conclusion.
That a certain number of the materializations are derived
in some way from the Miroir portraits seems to be an
imdoubted fact, and this, coupled Avith the fact that the
letters miro appeared on a part of one of the materiali-
zations, cannot fail to arouse suspicion which it is certainly
very hard to allay.
^
Before passing on to the experiments of Mme Bisson
it seems necessary to discuss briefly one more incident
which has been raised against the accurate observation
of Dr. von Schrenck. On August 11, 1911, May 25,
1912, and August 9, 1912, there is some reason to suppose
that Eva occasionally pretended " that her hands were
lying visible before her, when as a matter of fact one
of them at least was performing functions connected with
the arrangement of the phenomena. I shall say nothing
about the ethics of these manipulations beyond stating
that they prove very little one way or the other. The
important point to note is that on August 11, 1911,
Dr. von Schrenck apparently failed to note them until the
photographs gave the true state of affairs. A similar
incident seems to have occurred in a sitting with another
medium (see M. von Kemnitz, Moderne Mediumforschimg,
Miinchen, 1914, p. 56), and it is quite possible that it
occurred on other occasions when we are told that the
medium's hands remained visibly lying on her knees. These
facts are unfortunate, and it appears to me necessar}^ to
take Dr. von Schrenck's testimony as to what he has
observed with a certain amount of reserve.
It ought perhaps to be pointed out that photographic enlargements
of these heads prove conclusively that they are not sheets of paper
actually torn from Le Miroir : the process markings, which ought to
be clearly visible if the heads had been illustrations from Le Miroir,
are never visible at all, and there are other objections which have been
fully dealt with by Dr. von Schrenck in his Der Kampf um die
3Iaterialisationsphdnomene, pp. 74-120.
316 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
It ought, however, to be pointed out to certain
triumphant sceptics that to assume that the whole of the
phenomena recorded by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing are
fraudulent requires a series of hypotheses, which to my
mind are almost as difficult of acceptance as the supposi-
tion that folded packets containing botched portraits of
celebrities are manufactured through the teleplastic forces
of Eva C.
The Observations of Mme Bisson.
In considering the testimony of Mme Bisson the sceptic
finds himself in considerable difficulty. He has either to
state boldly his opinion that the phenomena are fraudulent
and that Mme Bisson's observations are worthless, or he
has to consider seriously whether the hypothesis of fraud
could jjossibly account for the occurrences that Mme
Bisson says that she has studied when alone with the
medium.^
Now there is not one particle of evidence which he
can adduce against Mme Bisson, this lady being held in
the highest esteem by all who know her. There is there-
fore a dead weight of probability against him and he has
to fall back upon the extraordinary, although conceivable
possibility, that Mme Bisson is herself deceived or halluci-
nated or both. This solution is possibly easy to those
who are unacquainted with Mme Bisson, and who know
little about deception and less about hallucination, but to
others the problem is not so simple.
The Investigations of Dr. Geley.
The results attained by Dr. Geley have been sum-
marized by him in a pamphlet published in Paris in 1918,
and reprinted from the Bulletin of the Institut General
Psychologique, Nos. 1-3, 1918.2 ^he full reports of Dr.
1 I refer principally to such phenomena as those occurring for example
on September 10, 1911, October 31, 1911, or December 8 and 17, 1911.
(See pp. 64-68; 70-71; 84-85; in Mme Bisson's book and p. 136 of
the Eng. Trans, of Dr. von Sohrenck's volume.)
3 Cf. also Dr. Geley's From the Unconscious to the Conscious (London,
1920), pp. 51 seq.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 317
Geley's experiments have not been published and it is
therefore impossible to discviss them. The same objec-
tions apply to him as to Dr. von Schreuck-Notzing,
inasmuch as his control before and after the seances
may conceivably have been favilty. Notwithstanding, Dr.
Geley declares that he does not say merely that " il 7i y
a pas eu de fraude," but " il n'y avait jms possibilite de
framie,'' and the data are not sufficient for us to be able
even to criticize him. Certainly some of the phenomena
observed appear to me to be absolutely inexphcable on
any theory of fraud. The following phenomenon, for
example, is prima facie quite inexplicable except by some
supernormal mediumistic faculty on the part of Eva C.
" Une tete apparait tout a coup, a environ 75 centi-
metres de la tete d'Eva, au-dessus d'elle et a sa
droite. C'est une tete d'homme, de dimension
normale, bien formee, avec ses reliefs habituels. Le
sommet du crane et le front sont parfaitement
materialises. Le front est large et haut ; les cheveux
tallies en brosse et abondants, chatains ou noirs.
Au-dessous des arcades sourcillieres, les contours
s'estompent ; on ne voit bien que le front et le crane.
La tete se derobe un instant derriere le rideau ;
puis reparait dans les memes conditions ; mais la
face, incompletement materialisee, est masquee par un
rideau de substance blanche. J'avance la main ;
je passe mes doigts a travers les cheveux touffus et
je palpe les os du crane, . . . Un instant apres, tout
avait disparu." (P. 13.)
L^nfortunately Dr. Geley does not give the necessary
details for us to be able to understand the precise con-
ditions which were obtaining when the above phenomenon
took place. It is clear that the head was not perfectly
formed except in its upper part, and this Dr. Geley was
able to feel and even press with his fingers. How this
is to be accounted for on the hypothesis of fraud I do
not know, unless we assume that the observers are in-
capable of any accurate observation at all. Dr. Geley's
full reports will be awaited with interest, especially in
318 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
view of the fact that the phenomena remarked by him
appear to have been of a slightly different order from
those previously recorded by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing.
The Investigation of the English Society eoe -
Psychical Research.
At the invitation of the Committee which had been
formed to investigate the phenomena of Eva C, I was
permitted to attend twenty-nine out of the forty seances
held by the Society. Of these sittings eight only were
positive, which gave me some opportunity to study the
phenomena at close quarters, and thus to try to solve the
vexed question of fraud and its application, if any, in
the case of this medium. It will be seen from the
detailed reports that on many occasions I was controlling
one or both hands of the medium throughout the sitting,
this permitting me to examine carefully the phenomena
which were produced without their aid or intervention.
These occurrences I now propose to examine simply from
the point of view of a practical " inagician " or illusionist,
and I shall endeavour to show exactly how far these effects
might be produced through normal agency. The success
or otherwise of this attempt may perhaps be found of
use in gauging the possibility or impossibility of fraudulent
manipulations.
There are two assumptions that must, I think, be made
if we wish to hold the opinion that the phenomena of
Eva C. are fraudulently produced. They are (a) that
the medium possesses the power of regurgitation or
rumination,^ and {b) that she secretes a peculiarly thick,
white saliva.
There is, as far as I can see, no escape from accepting
both of these preliminary hypotheses. Regurgitation or
^ An easier method of concealing objects is sometimes found in the
East. Thus in the Medical Press and Circular for 1889, Vol. II.,
p. 189, I read that amongst Indian criminals an ingenious method is
used for hiding articles. A pouch-like recess is formed at the base of
the epiglottis. This is formed by means of a bullet, |^ in. in diameter,
which is allowed to slide down and remain for varying periods. This
operation is repeated many times daily until the pouch is formed. In
this way articles are secreted, defying all search, the pouch interfering.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 319
merycism, as it is often called, is not common, but it is
occasionally found in hysterical subjects, and is sometimes
used for purposes of public exhibition. Thus Dr. Gulat-
Wellenburg has brought forward the case of Herman Wittich
who swallows frogs and fish, and when experimented upon
produced the same effects with rolls of chiffon and rubber
gloves. Similar^ a Belgian used to perform these tricks
with balls of paper, and indeed such methods are well
known amongst strolling performers of a certain kind.
Dr. von Schrenck denies that Eva is a ruminant, in spite
of some amount of evidence that points in that direction.
According to his own conclusions regurgitation would not
account for manj- of the phenomena that he himself has
observed, as these did not appear to have originated in
the medium's mouth. During the S.P.R. investigation,
however—so far, at least, as concerns those sittings at
which I was myself present—it seemed to me that no evidence
was obtained excluding the hypothesis that every materiali-
zation originated thus, and on no single occasion did we
have the opportunity of observing the large phenomena
described by other investigators.
Assuming therefore the possibility of regurgitation, let
us examine some of the phenomena, presupposing that
they are fraudulently produced. In this connexion I
shall only touch upon those sittings at which I was
myself present, since it is obvious that I can usefully
discuss only those phenomena which I myself witnessed.
Sea^ice XVII., May 21, 1920.^
In this case we must assume that the materialization
was previously prepared on a piece of thin, papery material,
with neither speech nor respiration. In Calcutta upwards of twenty
prisoners were found to possess these pouches, in which jewels, money,
etc., can be easily secreted.
On June 28, 1920, the medium at her own request was taken to a
laryngologist for the purposes of examination, but the lamp connected
with the laryngoscope refused to work and the examination had to b&
abandoned. The medium was, however, perfectly willing for the inspec-
tion to be made and even demanded it. (See Appendix IT.)
1 Before considering these remarks the reader is asked to turn back
to the detailed report, and refresh his memory as to the phenomena
themselves and the order of their appearance.
320 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
folded up and swallowed. On the one side, when opened
out, was a roughly drawn face and on the other side a
small photograph was stuck, the rough edges of the paper
forming a sort of frame round the head. Once got into
the mouth by regurgitation, the paper is unfolded through
the instrumentality of the tongue and teeth, and when
bent in its median fold is allowed to protrude from the
mouth, giving the appearance as noted at 7.30 p.m.
The front flap now falls over and the rough face becomes
visible. In this case we must assume that it has been
unfolded the wrong way, so that what is seen is the back
of the photo. Whilst the curtains are closed and the
cameras prepared (a period in this case of seven minutes),
the medium turns round the paper and when the photo
is taken it of course reveals a small photograph surrounded
by its paper frame.
Seaijce XXI., May 28, 1920. At this sitting occurred
the very remarkable phenomenon of a pointed waxy object
which waiS first observed inside and then outside the veil.
As this occurrence might be supposed to be clear proof
of something supernormal, it may be well if we consider
it at some length.
Now, supposing that the phenomena are genuine, have
we any reason to imagine that a " materialized " substance,
having originated in the mouth, could come through the
meshes of a closely woven veil without injuring the
strands ? It is quite possible, of course, that it might
issue forth in liquid or gaseous form and then solidify
outside the veil, but, having once materialized inside, it
seems quite unreasonable to suppose that it would then
pass through. The advantage of a veil is therefore
obvious, and as we were assured that the materializations
originated from other parts of the medium's body we
naturally wished to see such phenomena for ourselves.
But nothing of the kind ever happened. Phenomena
showed themselves in the medium's mouth and nowhere
else, and except on one occasion never came through the
veil. This occasion was on May 28, and it is this pheno-
menon that we are about to examine.
A pointed, waxy object, hard to the touch, was seen
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 321
sticking out of her mouth through the veil which had
been drawn into the cavity. How are we to account for
this phenomenon from the point of view of fraud ?
Now I may say at once that I do not propose to lay the
slightest stress upon the hole in the veil which was found
at the conclusion of the sitting. My reasons for this
will be found in the notes and remarks at the end of the
detailed report. What we have to try and discover is
some method by which the same effect could be produced
by normal means. Such a solution does not in the
least imply that the method was actually employed on
this occasion. Its sole value lies in the doubt that it
casts on the veil as a satisfactory method of obtaining an
infallible proof of the genuine character of certain pheno-
mena.
It seems at first quite clear that the easiest way to
produce such a phenomenon would be to pass the material
through the meshes of the veil in a liquid state, and then
to solidify it outside. Supposing therefore that the
medium had a piece of wax which would easily melt if
held in the mouth but would soon solidify if brought into
contact with the air, it seems possible that such a pheno-
menon might be produced. The wax might be contained
in some insoluble receptacle and then swallowed. If it
were brought up by regurgitation and the veil were drawn
into the mouth, the container might be broken, the wax
melted and thus got through the meshes of the veil. By
drawing quick respirations through the mouth the wax
would be cooled and then forced slowly through the lips,
assuming the pointed shape that was observed. Industrial
chemists tell me that such waxes are known and might
be used in the way described, although I have not
myself tried the experiment.
Now I can well imagine the reader thinking to himself
that this theory is far-fetched and grotesque, and in this
I heartily agree with him. Yet it is, as far as I can see,
the only theory which could account for the phenomena
under the conditions observed at the sitting. It is quite
useless to assume that the object was brought in with
the medium and taken out again at the conclusion of the
y
322 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
seance. That assumption does not explain how the object
was seen first inside and tlien outside the veil. Nor can
it with any degree of plausibility be maintained that
we were deceived or hallucinated, since under the direct
light of the torch both Mr. Feilding and I saw the
object free from the veil, and its bare point scraped
over the Ijach of my hand. Such theories as these
are conducive neither to the cause of honesty nor to
that of truth and the sooner they are discarded the
better. The only refuge for the sceptic is melted wax
or something like it, and that supposition hi itself
requires proof. Many of the most obstinate sceptics of
psychical jjhenomeiia are like those persons who on going
to a magical entertainment think that the experiments
are explained by saying that " they are done somehow
with mirrors or wires." Such observations explain nothing,
and it would be far better to face the facts squarely
than to devise solutions which can only make the inventor
look ridiculous. If a medium is condemned as fraudulent,
a possible solution should at once be worked out in detail.
On a later occasion, when the phenomena again take place,
the theories should be tested until there remains no
reasonable doubt as to the real character of the mani-
festations. In the present instance I had made my plans
for testing the wax theory if the veil was again penetrated
by the substance. Unfortunately it was not repeated
and so it was impossible to prove the theory either way.
However, on June 5 (Seance XXV.) a similar appearance
was observed inside the veil. As it is necessary, assuming
the wax is melted, for the veil to be drawn into the
mouth, I thought that it might be a useful test to prevent
this manoeuvre, which was accordingly done, and it is to
be noted that the substance did not on this occasion
pass through the veil. This in itself proves nothing, but
it is an experiment which might be tried at intervals
in the future.
Seance XXV., June 5, 1920. This seance was especi-
ally interesting in relation to the wax theory as developed
above. In this case we nuist assume that the white
object seen at 5.15 p.m. was the piece of wax enclosed in
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 323
its container and in a serai-solidified state. As conditions
were not suitable for an attempt to be made to pass it
through the veil, the medium, by closing her mouth,
began to melt it, and thvis when again seen at 5.46 p.m.
it was like a piece of cream cheese in a transparent
envelope. This container is then broken, and we must
now assume that the black thread seen on the tip of the
tongue was the ligature which had tied up the neck of
the transparent envelope. Once having broken the sheath
the wax would soon melt and spread over the tongue
in a creamy mass as noticed at 6.3 p.m., a part being
still probably within the envelope which had contained it.
Seance XXXI., June 16, 1920. At this sitting the
phenomena came and disappeared so rapidly that there
was some disagreement amongst the observers as to what
actually occurred. There seem to have been two objects,
(a) the pointed waxy object, and (b) the flat round disc.
As in the sitting of June 11 there seems too little to say
from the standpoint of fraud once the possibility of
regurgitation is accepted.
Seance XXXIV., June 21, 1920. This sitting was again
an interesting one. The first phenomenon was the white
substance which the medium and Mme Bisson asserted
was moving up the veil by itself. As previous investi-
gators had decided that the teleplastic substance possessed
a mobility of its own, we were especially desirous of
confirming their observations. Unfortunately, however,
the present example of its movement was almost un-
doubtedly due to an illusion, and this is important as
showing the liability to such mistakes under the existing
conditions. A mass of white saliva was visible on the
veil, and by moving the head the medium was enabled
to draw the veil up, thus giving the appearance of moving
saliva. As the movement of the black veil was invisible
in the dark cabinet, the saliva alone was seen apparently
moving up over the surface of the veil. The next
phenomenon, an hour later, was what at first sight
appeared to be a remarkable elongation of the medium's
nose. This was in reality another mass of saliva on the
veil and just on a level with the nose. When the veil
324 A Series of Sittings with Eva G. [part
was close to the face the mass touched it, and showed no
break between the sahva and the skin, but on leaning
forward to show the phenomenon the medium caused the
veil to fall forwards and Mr. Houdini, Mr. Baggally, and
myself saw at least half an inch between the white mass
and the tip of Eva's nose.
The next appearance was the curious oval patch seen
over the medium's left eye, followed a minute after by
the terra-cotta red face seen sideways in the veil. If the
phenomenon is fraudulent it is probable, as I have indi-
cated in the detailed report, that the eye patch was the
hack of the face and that they were not two distinct
phenomena. In any case we have to assume that the
object was brought up by regurgitation and then swallowed.
Fourteen minutes after, the strip of ragged elastic substance
appeared in the mouth, was pulled and stretched by the
medium's hands, and then disappeared suddenl5^ On the
assumption of fraud the following would possibly be the
explanation of this phenoinenon. The substance, having
been brought into the mouth, a part is gripped between
the teeth. It is then pulled out of the mouth and moulded
and twisted with the hands. Rolled up between the
fingers it is allowed to spring back into the mouth and is
immediately swallowed, but the mouldiiig still continues as
if the substance were still there. Pulling the veil out, and
still apparently moulding the substance, the fingers are
suddenly opened out and the illusion of a sudden dis-
appearance is perfect. Both Mr. Houdini and myself
agreed that the effect could have been thus produced, and
I think that there is little doubt as to the accuracy of our
oVjservations. How far this suggestion throws doubt upon
the honesty of the medium is open to question. Even if the
disappearance was effected as suggested, such a " trick
"
could doubtless be interpreted as a subconscious wish to
increase the effect of the phenomenon, and by no means
implies that the whole of the manifestation was spurious.
Such trance-deceptions are well known and make the
interpretation of certain of the physical phenomena
singularly difficult. The important point for us to note
is that if on this occasion the sudden disappearance of
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 325
the substance was effected by so subtle a device, how
far are we able to trust the observation of persons who
know nothing of such methods, and who have described
equally puzzling phenomena which they say that they
have observed ?
Seance XXXVI., June 24, 1920. At this sitting a
similar piece of elastic substance was observed as on
June 21. This time it was openly put back into the
mouth by the medium and did not suddenly vanish as
before. When stretched out the surface showed a whole
series of tiny pin pricks, and in general appearance
resembled a piece of some animal membrane such as
mesentery.
Seance XXXVIII., June 26, 1920. This sitting was
one of the most remarkable of all the seances that I
attended. At 6.5 p.m. the cold breeze began and con-
tinued for about 25 seconds. I know of no method for
producing this wind under the conditions obtaining at
the time. The medium was breathing very rapidly and
audibly, and she could not possibly, in my opinion, have
produced it by her breath. A frequently reported accom-
paniment of mediumship. the appearance of this breeze
rather points to the conclusion that supernormal pheno7nena
do sometimes occur in the presence of this medium.
The next phenomenon was the appearance of the tough
thread between Eva's fingers followed by the development
of the membrane and thick, skinny, medalHon-shaped
object. After their sudden disappearance a beard-like
appendage was seen hanging from the medium's mouth,
and after the flash we saw the flat coloured face hanging
from her lips. About an hour later a waxy pointed
object appeared in her mouth and then, whilst I was
holding her hands, Eva produced a membrane between
them, which finally chsappeared whilst still being mani-
pulated. At the same time Dr. Fournier D'Albe inspected
and felt the medium's lips to see that there was no
thread attached to them.
Now, if we had to account for these occurrences
in a normal way, there are certain assumptions that
it would be necessary to make in order to indicate the
326 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
sort of explanation that one is forced to offer if one
wishes to adopt the hypothesis of fraud. In considering
this question the reader must not imagine that the
Committee has accepted these explanations of the pheno-
mena. These suggestions are merely put forward in
order to demonstrate how far the idea of fraud is capable
of furnishing any satisfactory explanation at all.
The first point of importance, then, is the appearance
of the membrane in the fingers which was observed at
6.33 p.m. At first sight this appeared as if it had
sprung from the tips of the fingers, and no doubt such
phenomena have led some persons to imagine tihat the
substance does in reality " se degage " from them. Thus
Dr. Geley speaks of the " exteriorisation de la sidwtance
par les doigts," and on March 6, 1913, a band of substance
was seen joining the two hands of the medium. These
observers seem to have no doubt that the substance has
come from the fingers and this opinion (which might be
founded in many cases upon a very simple deception),
was doubtless fostered by the belief that the medium's
liands are visible throughout and do not approach her
mouth. But is it not possible for the mouth to approach
the hands, when the ciu'tains are closed ? If one grips
the curtains and closes them, it is perfectly easy to
bend the head down and with two fingers to withdraw
a piece of material from the mouth. On this occasion
it is probable that this actually happened, as I tested
the theory at the moment that the ciirtains were closed
by poking the fold just above the medium's hands.
My finger came in contact with the crown of Eva's
head which was evidentl}' bent down to meet her hands.
If, then, we assume that the membrane and medallion-
shaped object had been brought into the mouth, they
could both be put into the hands as above described.
Connected to them from the mouth might be elastic
cords (see Fig. 131 in Mme Bisson's book), and at a
convenient moment the two are brought down between
the upper part of the legs and perhaps the medallion
is pushed down between them. The membrane is then
unfolded, and as the hands cover the medallion this is
LXXXIV.] A Series of Siitings with Eva C. 327
brought up suddenly, a,nd the membrane flies back to
the mouth where it is either swallowed or retained. The
medallion later follows the same course, its ragged ends
forming the " beard " appearance which was observed at
6.37 p.m. The coloured face which was seen later might
have been the side of the medallion, which was not
visible as it lay in the medium's hands, ^ and could have
been put out of the mouth whilst the cameras were being
prepared.
The next phenomenon of importance was the appearance
of the membrane in the fingers, whilst I was holding the
medium's hands. This substance might have been trans-
ferred from the mouth to the hands as before and then
held out just in front of the curtain. As I was holding
Eva's hands at the time, I was unable to determine the
existence of a thread leading to her mouth. As if
reading my thoughts she turned her head right round
towards Dr. Fournier D'Albe and asked him to look at
her mouth. The lips were closed and on feeling them he
detected nothing unusual. Unfortunately this test was
not entirely satisfactory, for the medium had placed her
head in one of the two positions when, if the thread had
been there, it would not have been felt. It is clear that
if her hands were in front holding an object connected
to her mouth with a thread, the fact of twisting her head
round at right angles would have taken the thread into
the extreme corner of her mouth, and so passing the fingers
over the lips would have been useless. On discussing the
incident with Dr. Fournier D'Albe I learnt that the lips
were shut and, whilst he was touching them, the mouth
never opened for a moment. The disappearance of the
membrane could be accounted for in the same way as
previously. The thread, by a quick upward movement
and at the saine time l)y a strong inward breath, is
drawn into the mouth, bringing the membrane along
with it.
The above suggestions have been given simply as
specimens of the sort of foundation stones upon which the
hypothesis of fraud must, if true, be built. It has often
^ F. noted the fact that he saw a face under the medalHon.
328 A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. [part
been said that such explanations are worthless, since even
if one magician fails to discover a method for producing
a certain phenomenon another might possibly do so.
Arguments like these exercise a profound influence on
laymen with sceptical minds. Even if a competent
magician is convinced as to the reality of certain psychical
phenomena, they comfort themselves by saying that another
magician would have detected the " trick." No evidence
is therefore possible for such persons. Just as some
people say that spirits are responsible for all the physical
phenomena, so do these declare that all are due to trickery.
The magician becomes a real wonderworker, and deception
omnipotent. Such opinions are due to a complete mis-
understanding as to the scope and limits of deception.
There are a vast number of things that a magician cannot
do. For example, at the present moment I could 7iot
produce a billiard ball from the ends of my fingers. The
simple reason for this is that the nearest billiard ball is
in my property box at the other end of the room, and
I could not get it without rising from my chair and
actually fetching it. Now, if my two hands were held
and I was put into a cabinet and the lights were turned
down, it would be still impossible for me to produce that
billiard ball unless a confederate handed it to me. If
the possibility of confederacy were eliminated, it would be
an absolute impossibility to bring off the " trick,"" and
if that billiard ball then appeared between my fingers, and
if it were photographed, it would be a supernormal pheno-
menon. No magician in the world could devise a method
of producing a billiard ball if there was no billiard ball
to produce. If the conditions are known and can be
accurately determined at every point of the inquiry, it is
quite possible to eUminate fraud absolutely. I have said
elsewhere and now repeat that I consider these require-
ments were met at the S.P.R. sittings with Eusapia at
Naples in 1908, and that therefore I am forced to the
conclusion that Eusapia Palladino possessed genuine super-
normal powers. With regard to Eva C. the case is some-
what different. Speaking purely for myself I cannot say
that I altogether rely upon the observations of her
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 329
continental investigators, whilst the sittings in England
were too few and the phenomena too insignificant ?^to
enable any satisfactory conclusion to be arrived at.
It may be convenient here to sum up the main points
for and against the reality of the phenomena in addition
to those already outlined by Mrs. Salter in the Proceedings
for July, 1914, 'pp. 364-366.
The Case against the Phenomena.
(1) It is always open to doubt whether controllers
untrained in methods of trickery can prevent prepared
objects from being brought into the seance room.
(2) A certain number of the " heads " appear as if made
of paper. Actual paper has been found upon five separate
occasions.
(3) Without being able definitely to say that the medium
employed deceptive methods for the production and
disappearance of the phenomena, it is notewortJiy that the
manipulations in question are by no means inconsistent
with those which would have been necessary if normal
methods had been employed.
(4) The S.P.R. Committee never observed anything
which led them to suppose that materializations do
actually originate elsewhere than from the mouth. The
single example in Seance XXXVIII. might be explained
by the medium having produced the membrane from her
mouth previously to its exhibition.
(5) The nature of the materializations is such that an
enormous weight of evidence would have to be adduced
before their reality became a matter of certainty.
The Case for the Phenomena.
(1) There is no proof whatever that the medium
possesses the power of regurgitation or has any acquaint-
ance whatever with deceptive methods or contrivances.
The " tricks " suspected by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing and
the S.P.R. Committee may be merely subconscious
attempts to increase the eftect of the phenomena.
330 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
(2) The materializations are clearly often not made of
paper, chiffon, or any similar substance. This is evident
from photographic enlargements, besides being excluded
by the fact that on certain occasions they changed their
shape whilst under direct observation.
(3) The medium has never been detected in the prepara-
tion or secretion of any article likely to be of service in
the seances.
(4) If Mme Bisson and Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing be
accepted as even moderately good observers, no amount
of fraud could explain certain phenomena that they say
that they have observed.
(5) Comparative studies show that Eva C. is not the
only medium producing these manifestations. Accounts
of the phenomena with other mediums are remarkably
similar to those occurring with her.
(6) The appearance of the cold breeze rather leads one
to suppose that mediumistic phenomena do occur in Eva's
presence.
From the above remarks it may be thought at first
that the case against the phenomena is so strong that the
subject may be at once dismissed. Such a standpoint
would in my opinion be entirely mistaken and would
show clearly that its supporter had not the smallest
appreciation of the difficulties of judging psychical pheno-
mena. To suppose that Eva C. possesses powers of
deception which she must undoubtedly wield in order to
produce the phenomena is an absolutely unwarranted
assumption which has hardly a shred of evidence to
support it. Although in strictly scientific work personal
evidence and opinion count for little, they possess a
certain value which it would be foolish to ignore. Thus
to suppose that Mme Bisson is an accomplice in a shame-
less fraud which has already lasted eleven years is a
hypothesis which can scarcely be considered probable.
It is, of course, possible.
Granting her innocence, many of the phenomena become
inexplicable and unaccountable. That an object looks
like a hand made out of paper, is an insufficient reason
Lxxxiv.] A Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 331
for saying that it is such a hand, if the evidence is
such as to make this improbable. If the phenomena
are supernormal, all we can do is to take them for
what they are and carefull}" observe them. We cannot
dictate as to the sort of phenomenon we wish to see
and always expect to get it. Even though we may
want a full form phantasm and only get a botched
portrait of President Wilson with a black eye, it does not
follow of necessity that the latter is so curious that its
supernormality may be denied a priori. For if spirits exist
their actions may be as unaccountable as those of mortals,
and in the process of influencing matter the most singular
distortions may be produced. If, on the other hand,
the materializations are non-spiritistic teleplastic products,
as Dr. von Schrenck believes, then the portrait of Mr.
Wilson might be a dream image,'" intentionally disguised
through some obscure subconscious process. It must
be remembered that Eva is not by any means alone
in producing this variety of materialization. There are
other mediums now undergoing examination whose pheno-
mena strongly resemble those of Eva C. The investigation
of these mediums should be conducted with the greatest
possible care and the results correlated with those already
obtained. Such work would yield the most valuable
material and quite possibl}^ would result in the final
substantiation of phenomena which at the present moment
remain still doubtful and perplexing.
CHAPTER IV.
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS.
In recording our general impres.sions we much regret that
we are unable to come definitely either to positive or to
negative conclusions. The phenomena were too scanty and
the sittings too few for us to be able to determine with any
degree of accuracy the real nature of the phenomena.
Taken by themselves these were remarkably unimpressive.
On no single occasion did we observe the larger materiali-
zations as described by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, nor
did the phenomena in sufficiently observed conditions
emerge from any other part of the medium's body than
her mouth. If we had not been acquainted with the
work of previous investigators we might have felt inclined
to draw negative conclusions from our own observations.
It is, however, impossible to ignore the contributions of
Mme Bisson, Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing and Dr. Geley.
Even if the phenomena we observed were few in number
and poor in quality, they were of the same type as those
studied by our predecessors. The aim of our investi-
gation was scarcely as ambitious as that which had been
pursued by Dr. von Schrenck and by Dr. Geley. Above
all we wished to determine the reality of the phenomena,
and to have the opportunity of studying at first hand
the problems associated with so called teleplastic medium-
ship. It is deeply to be regretted that it was not until
the thirty-eighth seance that the phenomena began to
assume an impressive character. We believe that if the
seances had continued for another couple of months, we
should have been able to come to a definite conclusion
one way or the other. We consider the evidence for
[part lxxxiv.] a Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 333
even unconscious fravid to be of the slenderest, although
at the same time we fully recognise the difificulty of
accurate observation and correct deduction. We believe
I that our own control almost unquestionably eliminated
any fraudulent method for the production of the
phenomena other than regurgitation, and it is unfortunate
that nothing occurred of sufficient magnitude to convince
us of the impossibility of that hypothesis. Whether
regurgitation as a basis for the phenomena is sufficient
to explain them is a question which is open to grave
doubt, while it is clear that, assuming the accuracy of
their observations, it is certainly insufficient to explain
S the major phenomena described by our predecessors. Mr.
Dingwall has in his study of the sittings attempted to
consider what must have been the methods employed if
the phenomena are to be attributed entirely to trickery.
'
Although the Committee as a whole have not his qualifi-
cations as a conjurer to estimate the possibility of the
methods which he finds himself driven to suggest, they
concur with his view that to suppose that these were in
fact the methods employed is only a lesser strain on possi-
bilities than the adoption of the ideoplastic hypothesis
put forward by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing. If this
applies to our own observations it naturally applies in a far
greater degree to the observations of our predecessors.
The student has therefore to decide whether the major
phenomena can be explained through other fraudulent
devices, together with mal-observation and careless re-
porting, or whether they can be considered as genuine
occurrences. As our own conclusions must be strictly
limited to material gathered from personal observation we
cannot enter into a discussion of that problem.
It only remains for us to say a few more words on the
subject of this report. With regard to the medium it
must be said that her conduct deserves the highest appro-
bation. Patient under every control, she appeared to do
all in her power to assist the observers in an investi-
gation which at times, owing to the frec^uency of the
sittings and the extreme heat which prevailed, could not
fail to be wearisome both to the sitters and to her.
334 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
Mme Bisson's conduct also was deserving of much praise.
In spite of the fact that the phenomena were disappointing,
she preserved an almost unbroken demeanour of courteous
tolerance, and was always willing to acquiesce in sugges-
tions made by the Committee. Fully convinced herself
apparently of the genuine character of the materializations,
she naturally showed some impatience when she thought
that the doubts of the observers were founded neither upon
logic nor reason. Since they were unable to speak English
with any degree of fluency, and lacked such social companion-
ship as that to which they had been accustomed in Paris,
it may be feai'ecl that these ladies' stay in London was
not as pleasant as they might have anticipated. It may
be possible that these difficulties, coupled with a natural
anxiety about the issue, may have had an adverse effect
on the production of the phenomena. Further, Mme
Bisson, perceiving certain precautions taken by the con-
trollers in the earlier sittings before her general attitude
and mentality were known to them, for a long time took
such ostentations pains to dissociate herself from any
possible suspicion of complicity, by refusing to touch the
medium or even to approach her during the experiments,
that unfamiliar conditions were, contrary to the expressed
wish of tlie Committee, introduced, and may not un-
reasonably be thought to have resulted in an inhibitory
influence on the free development of the phenomena.
The laws governing these occurrences are not yet known, and
although we think it hardly likely that the actual mentality
of the observers can have any deleterious effect upon
them, it is not improbable that if their mentality is
believed ])_y the medium to be hostile, and she thereupon
becomes suspicious and resentful, such an attitude on her
part might altogether obstruct the free development
of the psychic forces. In the present case it was inevit-
able that the mental attitude of the observers was one
of doubtful and attentive scrutiny. That it was not, as
Mme Bisson frequently supposed, one of convinced hostility,
should be sufficiently clear from the terms of this report ; but
it is possible that this impression regarding it, communicated
to the medium, may have affected the results unfavourably.
LXXXIV.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 335
I
Summing up then our impressions, we believe that the
only possible hj^othesis to account hy means of trickery
for the phenomena that we ourselves observed would be
I the postulation of the medium's power of regurgitation,
for which there is absolutely no direct evidence. While
the phenomena studied by others appear to have been
of the same character, they were of so much greater
I
magnitude that we are unable to hold the view that
regurgitation is a sufficient explanation of these. To
suppose them all fraudulent would involve a further
supposition that former investigators were deceived through
a long period of years by methods of which we had no
indication in our own experiments, a proposition which
I
we have no adequate grounds for advancing. It remains
only therefore to state that for ourselves the phenomena
were not sufficient for us to determine their genuine
character, but from the evidence of others fortified by
the extreme difficulty of accounting reasonably by trickery
even for certain of the phenomena observed by ourselves,
we feel we cannot discard the possibilitj' of their super-
normal character. Ho^^ever unsatisfactory our own in-
vestigation may have been, we cannot conclude without
saying that in our opinio'n these phenomena deserve the
most careful and earnest attention that it is possible to
bestow upon them. We have been forced to forgo any
investigation into the psj^cho-pathological side of the
case, though we are of the opinion that the final solution
as to the form and character of such materializations can
probably onh^ be arrived at through a long and patient
study of the medium's own unconscious mechanisms.
Before, however, commencing a study of this nature, the
validity of the phenomena themselves must, in our opinion,
be firmly established and placed beyond all doubt.
Towards that end have our own efforts been directed, and
however unsuccessful they may have been, it is to be
hoped that they may contribute something to the study
of this peculiar and suggestive form of mediumistic
activity.
APPENDIX I.
It will be remembered that after the twenty-eighth seance
on June 11, 1920, some small white particles were found on
the veil. On examination these proved to be paper and Mme
Bisson suggested that they might be accounted for by a piece
of hair or cake paper which had lodged in the medium's
teeth and had been ejected during the course of the material-
izing process. Specimens of these papers were sent by Mme
Bisson and, together with the test tube specimens were sub-
mitted to analysis. The following is the result as certified
hy'ljDv. J. N. Goldsmith, the consulting chemist to whom
the specimens were sent.
(1) Cake Paper.
This is a parchment paper not easih'' disintegrated.
The paper was teased out' in water, and dyed in a
hot 2h per cent, solution of Congo Red, washed, dried,
and mounted in Canada Balsam. It is a wood pulp
paper containing many crushed fibres.
(2) Hair Paper (Brown).
Preparation and mounting as in the previous slide.
This paper is easily disintegrated. It is an ordinary
cheap wood pulp paper.
(3) Hair Paper (White).
Preparation and mounting as before. This was easilj"
disintegrated ; it is an ordinary cheap wood pulp paper.
The microscopic appearance of the portion mounted is
not identical with the test tube s^iecimen.
(4) Test Tube Specimen (of Particles found on medium's veil).
Treatment and mounting as before. The slide shows
Avood pulp fibres similar to those found in cheap papers.
336
[part lxxxiv.] a Series of Sittings with Eva C. 337
This slide contains certain vegetable cells which are not
visible in the three previous slides ; it may be accidental,
sometimes several slides of a paper must be made before
all the characteristic cells can be identified, as so many
cells are broken up in the manufacture.
Since wood pulp papers are very common it would be
exceedingly difficult to prove the identity of the test
tube specimen with another sample of paper even if
the microscopic picture were the same. In the present
case the microscopic picture is not the same. As far
as these observations go the probabilit3' is that the
test tube specimen is different from either of the three
paper samples. Further work would be necessary if a
final opinion is required on this point. As an ordinary
microscopic examination no interest whatever would
attach to these four specimens.
The Phloroglucin Test for wood pulp was tried and gave
a marked jaositive result with the Cake Paper, a very faint
positive result Math the Brown Paper, and a negative result
with the White Hair Paper and with the Test Tube Specimen.
This test gives a pink colour with mechanical wood pulp, but
no reaction ^dth comjDletely bleached chemical wood pulp or
with cotton and linen.
APPENDIX II.
One day the medium suggested that she should visit a
physician in order that a careful examination of her throat
might be made. Accordingly on June 28th she was taken
to see Mr. W. M. Mollison, F.R.C.S., who proceeded to make
a careful examination of her throat and adjacent parts. His
report reads as follows :
23 Devonshire Place,
Upper Wimpole Street, W. 1,
June 28, 1920.
I saw Eva C. this afternoon. Examination of her nose,
nasopharynx, pharynx and larjaix reveals no abnormality.
The pharyngeal irritability is normal. Her tongue is rather
fissured and is suggestive of dyspepsia, though as a matter of
fact she does not have dyspepsia.
(Signed) W. M. Mollison.
After the medium's throat had been examined in the ordmary
way she inquired if a more careful insi^ection could net be
made. Dr. Mollison replied that he could examine her oeso-
phagus if she insisted, but that it was a rather painful pro-
ceeding. The medium, however, demanded the examination,
and her throat was cocained prior to the passage of the tube.
Unfortunately, however, the electric lamp connected with the
apparatus refused to work and the examination had to be
abandoned.
It will be of interest to state that, as we have been in-
formed, Mme Bisson has been able during the period of time
which has elapsed since our experiments took place gradually
to improve the conditions of the seances, holding them fre-
quently in full daylight, and that, although the phenomena
3,S8
[part lxxxiv.] a Series of Sittings ivith Eva C. 339
are of less magnitude than those reported in her book, results
of great interest have been observed. An account of one
of them was read by Mme Bisson at the International Congress
on Psychical Research, recently held at Coi^enhagen, and will,
we understand, be included in the Report which is to be
published of the Proceedings of the Congress.
As a result of the frequent suggestions that Eva C."s pheno-
mena could be explained bj' regurgitation, Madame Bisson took
her in May of this year to be examined by two radiologists,
in order to ascertain whether there was anything abnormal in
the appearance or functioning of the oesojihagus and stomach.
With Madame Bisson's permission we print below the certificate
given by the radiologists as a result of the examination.
'
Certificat.
Nous soussignes
|
Louis Beaupbez, Dodeur en medeciyie de la Faculte de Paris,
ancien interne des asiles, ancien ^repara/ew de radiologie
a I'HSpital Broca, Medecin-Exj^ert pres les Tribuneaux,
demeurant a Paris, 32 rue Desaix,
et Emile Vallet, Docteur en medecine de la faculte de Paris,
ancien interne de Saint-Lazare, Chevalier de la Legion
d'Honneur, demeurant a Paris, 72 rue Cardinet,
Certifions avoir procede le 24 3Iai 1921 a Vexamen radiologique
de Vcesophage et de Vestomac du medium de Madame Bisson,
Mademoiselle Eva Carriere, dgee de 34 ans, que Vun de nous
{le Dr. Beauprez) connatt _perso>i.e^Zeme/ii ^jowr Vavoir vue a
plusieurs reprises chez Madame Bisson dans des seances an
cours desquelles ce medium a donne des inaterialisations
.
Uexamen a ete pratique a dix heures du matin, Mademoiselle
Eva Carriere etait a jeun ; nous lui avons fait ingurgiter iin
lait de bismuth et nous avons pu constater que le passage du
bismuth dans Vcesophage se fait d'une fagon absolument normale
et que Vcesophage ne presente aucune particularity, telle que
retrecissement, dilatation oxi diverticule. L'estomac lyresente une
poche a air de volume normal, le remplissage de cet estomac se
fait normalement et apres absorption d'environ 250 grammes de
lait de bismuth on observe une image de Vestomac en piied de
340 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part lxxxiv].
bas " dont le 2^oint decline se trouve a un centimetre au-
dessous de Vombilic. Des la fin du remplissage des contractions
segmentent les trois quarts inferieurs de Vestomac et amorcent
rivacuation duodenale. Cette evacution se fait normalement et
I 071 n' observe pas d^hyperkynesie gastrique, pas jdus que de mouve-
ments antiperistaltiques ni de regurgitations. De profit, les faces
gastriques ont un contour regulier, sans lacunes ni diverticules.
En resume, nous 2JOuvons conclure de Vexamen que nous avons
pratique que Mademoiselle Eva Carrieee presente un cesophage
et un estomac normaux dont le fonctionnement est normal.
Paris, le 30 Mai 1921.
[Signed] Beaijpbez.
7 juin 1921.
Vallet.
Paris, 12 juin 1921.
It will be seen that according to the above statement
the stomach and oesophagus of Eva C. when submitted to
a radiological examination, presented a normal appearance.
On the other hand, a professional " regurgitator," giving
2Jerformances in Paris, who has recently been examined by
the same method, jiresented several marked peculiarities.
APPENDIX III.
Note by W. W. Baggally.
My first opinion, at the sittings held with Eva C, in the
rooms of the Society for Psychical Research, at which I was
present, was that as some of the objects which made their
appearance were seen to issue from the mouth of the medium,
she had the power of regurgitation. I concluded that she
had swallowed them before coming to the rooms and then
regurgitated them. I was aware that there were public
performers like Roniski, the Russian, who swallowed gold-
fish, frogs, etc., and then caused them to issue from his
gullet in full view of his audiences. The phenomena of Eva C.
I considered to be of the same character, the difference being
that the objects swallowed by her were smaller. But as the
sittings continued, I had to alter my opinion as to Eva C.'s
phenomena being a case of simple regurgitation. Elements
of a puzzling nature presented themselves. Some of the
objects were of such a character that it was difficult to under-
stand how they could have been concealed in the gullet of the
medium. As an example I would refer to the black material
which covered the lower part of Eva's C.'s face, like a beard,
at the sitting of 28th April, 1920, and which was subse-
quently seen on her right hand, which ^vas at the time
under control. If this material had issued from her gullet
it would be natural to suppose that it would have been
moist. I felt it and found it to be dry. To the touch
it was Uke a crumpled-up, stiff, veil.
At the same sitting a flash-light photograph \\as taken
of an object which was seen resting on the medium's right
breast. When the photograph was developed it showed a
small female face surromided by a wide circular frame con-
341
342 A Series of Sittings with Eva C. [part
sisting of aiDparently the same kind of material as that which
had been seen on Eva C.'s face and hand. It is difficult
to understand how the medium could have concealed material
of this nature in her gullet. This material was not seen
to issue from, nor to re-enter her mouth, but at the seance
of the 21st June, 1920, when Mr. DLngwall was controlling
the medium's hands, a substance was seen to issue from her
mouth under perplexmg conditions.
I will quote from my notes of this sitting :
"Before the sitting began Eva C, at her own sugges-
tion, drank a cup of coffee and ate a biscuit to prove
that she had nothing concealed in her gullet.
" Eva C. asked, towards the end of the sitting, to
be allowed to have her hands free. This was granted
while Dingwall still held her wrists. She then began to
pull something from her mouth with both her hands.
I had a good view of this as my face was within a foot
from her mouth. She kept pulling this something from
her mouth and stretching it out in different directions.
It appeared to be of a grey colour of an irregular shape.
It suddenly vanished while I was intently watching
it. Immediately after its disappearance Eva C. said
'
Examme my mouth.' This was at once done with the
electric torch. Nothmg was seen in her mouth. During
the whole time that the phenomenon occurred the strong
light of the electric torch was used."
Madame Bisson, in her book, Les PMnomenes dits de Materia-
lisation, refers repeatedly to the sudden manner in which
the objects, that present themselves at Eva C.'s seances,
disappear. (See pp. 290, 293, 302.)
The perplexing disappearance of objects was also noticeable
at our seances, and, whatever be the method by which it
was brought about, it appears difficult to believe that it
was by the use of the medium's hands, when the way they
were controlled is considered. I was present at twenty-one
sittings. I controlled Eva C.'s left hand during six of these
sittings and her right hand during eleven. I can confidently say
that during the whole of these sittings the control of the
medium's hands by Mr. Dingwall and myself was most rigid.
Lxxxrv.] A Series of Sittings with Eva C. 343
When the hands were not held, they were always in sight.
Not for a moment was our attention relaxed.
It is to be regretted that the seances could not have been
continued as, towards their end, there appeared to be increasing
evidence of a supernormal element coming into play. It is
also to be regretted that no full form figures made their
appearance at our sittings like those shown in some of the
illustrations in Mme. Bisson"s book. Had they done so
we should have been more able to form a definite opinion
as to the real nature of Eva C.'s phenomena.
THE MODUS OPERANDI IN SO-CALLED
MEDIUMISTIC TRANCE.
By (LTna) Lady Teoubeidge.
As a preliminary to what I am going to say about the
trance phenomena observable in the persons of so-called
mediums, I am anxious to make it quite clear that
I am' not purporting to relate any remarkable new
evidence received for or against the theory of personal
survival of bodily death, and although evidence of this
type received through a medium, Mrs. Leonard, will
incidentally be mentioned, its value from that standpoint
will not be the reason for its inclusion in this paper. It
is with the question of the actual modus O'permidi involved
in the reception by certain subjects when in trance
of impressions derived from sources apparently not avail-
able to the same subject when in a waking state, that
I wish to deal ; with the conditions which may affect,
favourably or adversely, the production of the phenomena
whose source is the subject of so much discussion.
My reason for selecting this subject is that I have a
strong feeling that the entire question of so-called medium-
istic phenomena is just now at a very important stage
in its evolution.
It is now nearly forty years since a few courageous
individuals founded the Society for Psychical Research
for the avowed purpose of investigating as scientifically
as possible what had up to that time been regarded by
most of their contemporaries as material beneath serious
consideration ;
namely, the various reports of hallucina-
tions, hauntings, premonitions, phantasms, and the move-
ments of inanimate objects without visible cause, which
344
[part lxxxiv.] 'Modus Operandi' in Mediumistic Trance. 345
were held by some of those witnessing or experiencing
them to point to ultra-mundane intervention, and generally,
by those not involved in the experiences, to be due to
indigestion, or a taste for romance.
Although the work of the Society for Psychical Research
has from its initiation been one of steadilj' maintained
progression, I think, nevertheless, that it is only within
the last few years that one of its most definite aims has
been accomplished. We may regard Mrs. Henry Sidg-
wick's Paper on the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance
Phenomena as a milestone at which it behoves us to
pause and consider. Mrs. Sidgwick terminates this Paper
by stating that study of the Piper phenomena has led
her to the belief that in the trance state Mrs.
Piper's " normal powers transcend in some directions
those of her ordinary waking self, as is often the case
in hypnosis. And further—what makes her case of
great importance—she can obtain imperfectly, and for
the most part fragmentarily, telepathic impressions. Or
rather, as it would perhaps be more correct to say,
such impressions are not only received by her as the
result of her own telepathic activity or that of other
spirits—spirits of the living or maybe of the dead—but
rise partially or completely into the consciousness operat-
ing in the trance communications, and so are recognised."
Mrs. Sidgwick has not been the first of those seriously
engaged upon psychical investigation to reach the con-
viction that, after the exclusion of all conceivable fraud,
conscious or unconscious, and taking also into consideration
coincidence and all known normal explanations, there
remains among the phenomena studied by herself and her
colleagues a residuum which demands an explanation that
is not as yet forthcoming. For some years past a number
of our most distinguished members have devoted much
time and energy to the study of the phenomena known as
cross-correspondences ; the automatic script involved in
the production of these has largely been obtained through
the agency of automatists whose integrity is so above all
question, that the explanation of conscious fraud has not
even required consideration. Without going into any
346 (Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
detail, we may say that their study of the cross-corre-
spondences has led these investigators to the same con-
clusion as that expressed by Mrs. Sidgwick in her Paper
on the Piper Phenomena, and it will, I think, be admitted
that few unprejudiced and capable observers will now
deny the possible existence of telepathy at any rate, even
if they do not care to go further.
It would be difficult to over-estimate the importance
of such an advance from a condition of pure surmise,
but much remains to be done. It becomes at once
imperative not only to proceed further, but to do so by
that particular road which is best calculated, perhaps
among several available roads, to lead us to the next
stage of the journey. The most interesting road is not
necessarily the best, and short cuts are as dangerous as
they are alluring.
In this matter of psychical investigation, side by side
with the question of the existence or non-existence of
the alleged phenomena, there has always appeared the
enthralling question of what might be their source, and
granted the recognition of the existence of super-normal
phenomena as an established fact, it is this question of
the source thereof which may now be considered by many
serious students of Psychical Research to be the problem
to which thev should devote themselves. -
Now it is my conviction that another stage of the
investigation should precede the attempt to ascertain the
source of the phenomena ; a stage quite as important, if
less attractive to the imagination and the ambitions.
Being myself deeply and perhaps primarily interested in
the question as to whether or not the phenomena we
are observing point to the action of entities who have
survived bodily death, I am the better able to realise
the interest of this absorbing question to a large number
of investigators. It is incidentally the main point upon
which are based the prejudice and ill-feeling that so often
enter into discussions of the subject of psychical pheno-
mena as a whole, both in the Press and in other publications.
It is the entry of this question into the subject of Psychical
Research which I cannot but feel has often had a regret-
Lxxxiv.] ' Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 347
table effect upon the way in which the whole subject is
regarded by many persons whose assistance, would they
give it, could only benefit the investigation.
Few persons of real intelligence are stimulated to
enquiry by being told insistently, without adequate
explanation, the solution of a problem before they have
themselves gone into its processes. And when the problem
in question appears to be solved by two conflicting
parties with equal conviction in two diametrically opposite
ways, it is rarely that the potential enquirer cares to seek
further, or even suspects the existence of competent
persons who are less sweeping in their judgments. Definite
pronouncements made upon an inadequate rational basis
are powerful irritants. There also results, among many
intelligent persons, a prejudice that involves not individual
opinions only, or their exponents, but the entire Society
for Psychical Research, which, being less clamorous in its
methods, does not always get the merit due to it for
its sedulously temperate and neutral policy. There are
many quite intelligent persons who honestly believe that
the Society for Psychical Research exists mainly for the
purpose of proving or disproving personal survival of
bodily death and communication with the departed.
Possibly could it be made clearer that the Society for
Psychical Research is not only equally interested in the
proving or disproving of this important question, but is
anxious that any conclusions on this matter should be
postponed until more is known regarding the phenomena
involved, we might gain many useful workers, trained in
other branches of science, and save ourselves from the
risk of what I will call skipping a vitally important stage
of the investigation.
I feel strongly that, to whatever conclusions each in-
dividual investigator may come as to the possible source
of the phenomena, his conclusions will always be open
to doubt, so long as he is obliged to confess an almost
total ignorance of the nature of the processes whereon
they are based.
I am quite aware that, in suggesting that the main line
of investigation now to be pursued is the examination
348 (Una) Lady Troiibridqe. [part
and the attempted comprehension of the ynodus operandi
involved in the production of Psychical Phenomena, I am
suggesting an advance into almost total darkness, and
advocating a course only to be paralleled by requesting
a physiological student to study practical vivisection in
a country devoid of animal life. Mediumistic trance
phenomena of a pronounced type are rare. Where the
faculty exists and is recognised, it is either concealed by
the possessor as an undesirable peculiarity, or it is a
valued possession for one reason or another. Sometimes
it is a source of religious consolation, in other cases it
procures interest and admiration for an individual who
would otherwise command neither, and sometimes it is a
means of livelihood with which it would not be legitimate
to tamper. At all events, subjects are not going to be
plentiful, who will risk the possible diminution or loss of
this remarkable faculty by submitting it without reserve
to the experimentation of operators who cannot pretend
to foresee results.
In any case, with the most complaisant subject, and
perhaps most of all with such, the scientific investigator
is in honour bound to consider above all other things the
possible results of his experiments upon the subject
submitted to his examination, and this consideration
very considerably limits the field of legitirhate experi-
ment.
But in spite of this fact, there does appear to me
to be one road of investigation which could be legitimately
pursued, without fear of harming the subject, and along
which there comes towards us perhaps a very faint ray
of light.i
In dealing with this matter I will take as an example
the medium Mrs. Leonard, her trance phenomena being
those of which I have personally had the fullest experience.
I have sat with her either as sitter or recorder about
one hundred and eighty times, and I shall quote her
^ This paper was written before the publication of Mr. Whately
Smith's paper on " A Suggested New Method of Research " (Proc.
S.P.R., Vol. XXXI., p. 401 ff.), and I do not therefore discuss the
interesting suggestions which he there makes. _
.
,^
Lxxxiv.] '
Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 349
also as being, to the best of my belief, one of the best
trance mediums at present alive - and in this country.
Now, whether or no Mrs. Leonard be an intermediary
between incarnate and discarnate human beings, does not
here concern us. A less debatable point will suffice
for the purpose of this paper ; Mrs. Leonard, who alter-
nates between a very normal " normal consciousness,"
a slight drowsiness or haziness productive of automatic
script, a partially analgesic trance followed by almost
total amnesia on waking, in which she shows the charac-
teristics of a personality quite foreign to her waking self,
and yet a fourth, also apparently a trance condition, in
which she reproduces with more or less success the vocal
characteristics and mannerisms of deceased persons of both
sexes, who were never known to her during their lives, is
certainly a case of abnormal psychology. And from this
fact comes m}^ postulated ray of light.
The abnormal psychology of Mrs. Leonard is in some
respects similar to that of recorded and published cases
among patients studied by curative experts. It abounds
in features common to many pronounced examples of
what is known as Multiple Personality. In this respect,
therefore, there may possibly be much to be gained by
careful observation as to the extent to which it is possible
to bring the abnormal psychology of Mrs. Leonard and
other trance mediums into line with the abnormal psycho-
logy of those who are not, to all appearance, mediums,
but who only share Mrs. Leonard's peculiarities in some
other respects. We should by this means, at any rate,
reduce the totally unclassifiable portions of Mrs. Leonard's
abnormal psychology to that portion wherein she definitely
differs from any so far classified case. The accomplish-
ment of this much, taking into consideration how much
yet remains hypothetical in the classification of even
non-mediumistic examples of multiple personality, might
merely lead us up a blind alley, but that is a risk which
must be taken by the pioneer.
The line of enquiry that I am suggesting is not a
new departure ; ever since the publication of the re-
cords of the earliest observed and recognised cases of
350 (Una) Laxly Troubridge. [part
Multiple Personality, careful investigators of psychical
phenomena have remarked a similarity between certain of
the complexes, or personalities, produced by dissociation,
and a not unusual type of so-called " Control " who
directs the proceedings during many mediumistic trances.
A salient example of this kind was the " Sally " of the
Miss Beauchamp case recorded by Doctor Morton Prince.
Anyone who has sat much with trance mediums, and who
has become familiar with the type of girl or child control
so often met with, and who reads of Sally, can hardly
fail to remark the analogies. If we rule out the purport-
ing production of information super-normally acquired,
Mrs. Thomson's control " Nellie,"' the Minnehaha control
of Doctor Hyslop's medium Mrs. Chenoweth, and others
of the same type have a strong family likeness to Sally,
to the " Leontine " Personality of Doctor Pierre Janet's
Leonie Case and also to a trance entity whom I have
lately been able to study—the " Moyenne " personality
developed under hypnosis by the young Polish medium
Miss Tomczyk, who gave a series of test seances to the
Society for Psychical Research some five years ago, and
who is also known to us through the reports of Doctor
Ochorowicz in the Annales des Sciences Psychiques. Indeed
Moyenne is an especially interesting case, owing to the
difficulty experienced in attempting to classify her even
provisionally as being definitely either Spirit Control " or
" Secondary Personality." She does not fit comfortably
into either class, and whichever one she is placed in she
proceeds to overflow into the other. If we classify her
as a " Spirit Control " we are met by the difficulty that
her claim to be such is not only inadequate, but is of
recent date. Taking into consideration the fact that of
late years Miss Tomczyk, in her capacity of an interesting
psychical subject, has inevitably met and known many
convinced spiritualists, we need seek no further for an
explanation of Moyenne's rather tardy decision that she
is a spirit invasion. She can, moreover, adduce nothing
evidential in support of this claim, she does not tell us
why she opened her career by asserting that she was
merely a part of Miss Tomczyk, or what reasons caused
Lxxxiv.] 'Modus Operandi' in Mediumistic Trance. 351
her to change her mind on this subject ; she offers no
proofs of identity with any person formerly incarnate,
and any questions as to her origin, or regarding her
surroundings when " away " from Miss Tomczyk, are
effectually and unsatisfactorily quenched by the mere
assertion on her part that she was never incarnate at all
as a human being, and that she is forbidden by certain
convenient rules to tell anything connected with her
discarnate conditions, past, present or future.
Under these circumstances it would seem obviously the
proper course to disregard Moyenne\s inadequately sustained
pose of " Spirit invasion," and set her down firmly, as I
understand Miss Tomczyk herself is inclined to do, as
merely a dissociated complex. But just here we are met
by a feature which at once tends to push her back into
the Spirit Control " department ; for it is only when
Moyenne holds sway that Miss Tomczyk is able to produce
those physical phenomena—levitations, apparent de-
materializations, apports, etc., which have been obtained
through her mediumship under test conditions entirely
satisfactory to the investigators, to whom she uncondi-
tionally submitted herseK.
If we disregard the alleged super-normal powers exhibited
by Moyenne, she conforms in most respects admirably to
the recognised features of a certain type of Secondary
Personality. Like Sally, Moyenne is whimsical ; appealing,
often pathetic, and often amazingly attractive. Like
Sally and Leontine, she is animated, irresponsible, noisy
and irrepressible, and on occasion intractable. Like Sally
too she exhibits genuine if sometimes misplaced humour,
and like Sally, Leontine and also Margaret, another
Secondary Personality of whom we will treat presently,
Moyenne either cannot or will not sleep, and is utterly
unscrupulous in depriving the organism she uses of that
uninspiring but necessary restorer.
The mention of Margaret leads me at once to a com-
parison which I have been making for many months past ;
that between Mrs. Leonard's Control Feda and the Margaret
Personality, who usurped such a lion's share of the daily
life of the girl whose case is recorded in that valuable
352 (Una) Lady Troubriclge. [PAET
work " The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality." ^
We will for the present ignore the claim of the author,
Dr. Walter Prince, that Margaret displayed at times
evidences of clairvoyant or super-normal faculty, and
restrict ourselves to the characteristics exclusive of such
a claim in both Margaret and Feda. I have studied the
Doris Fischer Case rather carefully, and indeed, when I
first obtained it, I was at once struck by the apparent
likeness of the Margaret Personality;' described to the Feda
with whom I am so familiar.
^
Feda and Margaret are both of them very pronounced
individualities ; there are few semitones to be observed
in either of them, a fact which facilitates comparison. It
must, however, be recognised that Feda is tame as com-
pared with Margaret. Nevertheless, those characteristics,
which blaze in Margaret with melodramatic force, are
generally observable in a modified degree in Feda. i,
Margaret in her early stages actively hates and maltreats
the unfortunate Doris, and even in her later stages of
reformation it is clear that Margaret considers the Doris
a poor thing. Feda, on her part, has not a high opinion
of Mrs. Leonard, and though she will conscientiously, if
rather obviously against the grain, do her any kindness
in her power, she never, in my experience, conveys any
impression that she likes her. She frequently indeed
expresses open scorn of Mrs. Leonard's opinions, likes or
dislikes, and speaks of her as of a not very satisfactory and
distinctly inferior instrument, who must be protected and
humoured merely because such as she is, there is none
better to hand. Her instinctive antagonism for Mrs.
Leonard is repressed, tempered by a certain recognition
of Mrs. Leonard's good qualities which her honesty will
not let her deny, but the antagonism is unmistakably
there. Mrs. Leonard, on the other hand, while giving
Feda full credit for her merits (like Doris, she only learns
of the other Personality through revelations made to her
1 This work is familiar to the Members of the Society through Dr.
T. W. Mitchell's Paper, portions of which were read by him at the
meeting of the Society in July, 1919. while the entire Paper has
since been published in the Proceedi/iijs, Vol. XXXI., p. 30.
Lxxxiv.] ' Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 353
by other people), undoubtedly bestows upon Feda no
more than a rather patronising liking, often obscured by
distinct irritation. She resents actively the suggestion
that has been made to her by certain spiritualistic sitters,
to the effect that Feda is her higher self, justifiably
pointing out that her normal self does not share many of
Feda's childish weaknesses and limitations. The attitude
of Doris towards Margaret, or so much of Margaret's
character as she could gauge by the agency of Doctor
Prince and the letters written to her by Margaret during
the latter's periods of manifestation, was very similar.^
Feda also shares with Margaret a total lack of compre-
hension and appreciation of the accepted values. Margaret
being told that a painful corn would improve if cut,
attempted with a table knife to amputate Doris's toe.
Feda, when a sitter accidentally singes a few hairs of
her medium's fringe, suggests that were a bonfire made
of the entire chevelure of Mrs. Leonard, the latter might
replace it to advantage by a blonde transformation more
to Feda's taste. Margaret hacked to pieces Doris's bed,
reducing Doris to sleeping on a chair. Feda, according
to Mrs. Leonard, has twice presented to casual sitters
Mrs. Leonard's wedding ring, has once thrown it in the
fire, from which a distressed sitter rescued it, and once
ordered another sitter to bestow it upon an itinerant
1 At the time of writing the above, I had in my study of the Doris
Case confined myself, owing to lack of time, entirely to the two first
volumes of that work containing Doctor Prince's Record of the case.
It was not until after I had witten this Paper that I found time also
to examine the third volume in which Doctor Hyslop records his share
of the investigation. It was, therefore, an interesting surprise to me
to find that Doctor Hyslop has been as much struck as I was myself
by the remarkable similarity apparent between certain aspects of so-
called Multiple or Dissociated Personalities, especially as observed in
the Doris Case, and examples of alleged spirit controls.
It was in consequence of a study of Doctor Hyslop's records that I
added the mention of Minnehaha to the examples which I have
quoted of " Child Controls." If I have in this Paper trespassed upon
ground already marked out by Doctor Hyslop, and in some cases merely
repeated what he has said, I know my readers will accept my assurance
that I did so before I was aware of what he had written on the
subject, and that they will be lenient towards the efforts of a younger
and less experienced student of Psychical phenomena.
354 {Una) Laxly Tro abridge. [part
organ grinder. This despite the fact that Mrs. Leonard
values the ring and is superstitious regarding its removal
from her hand. Woe betide Mrs. Leonard, however,
should she by accident or intent dispose of, or even
contemplate disposing of, any article which Feda regards
as her own. Just as Margaret visited with fury and
condign punishment any attempt on the part of Doris
to tamper with what Margaret considered hers, and even
in the last stages of her gradual extinction leapt out to
this stimulus after others had ceased to affect her ; so
Feda exhibits the least regenerate aspects of her nature
in protecting from any encroachment by the medium any
object which she regards particularly as hers. While
I was well aware that Mrs. Leonard went in fear of un-
pleasant consequences of some sort arising in the event
of her displeasing Feda, it did not strike me till quite
lately to ask Mrs. Leonard what exact form those
consequences might be expected to take. Mrs. Leonard
then informed me that Feda if really annoyed simply did
not come ; as sittings under these circumstances could
not take place, Mrs. Leonard's means of livelihood were
thus removed until Feda considered the offence expiated.
Sitters frequently present trifles to Feda, during Mrs,
Leonard's trance, and it is invariably Feda's habit to
remark jealously upon such occasions, " It's Feda's, not
hers ", or words to this effect. Only if an object
really fails to please Feda, is it relegated to Mrs. Leonard
as being good enough for her. Mrs. Leonard, on the other
hand, on one occasion when I gave her in the normal
state a little ornament promised to Feda, explained to
me with obvious embarrassment that she must not venture
to thank me, lest Feda should interpret her doing so as
a claim to the gift.
I have a record of an incident which brought into
play conjointly Feda's ignorance of accepted values, and
her jealousy regarding any encroachments upon her personal
property. One day, prior to a sitting, Mrs. Leonard
asked me whether I would beg Feda to allow her to
present to a certain poor child, v/ho had seen and longed
for it, a shilling toy which had been given to Feda ; I
Lxxxiv.] ' Modvs Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 355
undertook the embassy, and obtained from Feda a
distinctly cold concession to the effect that the child
could have Feda's toy, only on condition that Mrs.
Leonard bestowed her own valuable ruby ring upon a
certain young woman in domestic service designated by
Feda as " the cook girl " ; Feda was emphatic that this
latter gift should in any case be made. It must also be
recorded that on receiving this message, Mrs. Leonard,
although at the time she stopped short of acting upon
it, was visibly uneasy upon the possible consequences to
herself involved in the disregard of Feda's behests. Some
months later, on my alluding to the occurrence, Mrs.
Leonard informed me that, Feda having on several occasions
sent her further peremptory messages by various sitters
regarding the ruby ring, she had thought it unwise to
resist, and had therefore bestowed her ring as directed by
Feda.
Another respect in which Feda resembles Margaret is
that a certain delayed infantilism of pronunciation is
common to both. Doctor Prince tells us in his record
that in this respect correction never produced upon
Margaret any lasting improvement, and during the three
years that I have sat with Feda, any attempts made by
her at correcting her verbal idiosyncrasies—attempts
evoked by the frequent hilarity which they provoke in
sitters, an amusement which Feda is far from sharing
—
have been very transient. I must, however, mention
one exception. Up to November 9th, 1918, Feda
habitually alluded to herself as " Feda " ;
since then she
has maintained with few exceptions the use of the first
person singular, and in reply to a question put by me,
she informed me that this reformation was accomplished
with much difficulty in compliance with a sitter's request.
Barring this one exception Feda's English, unless she
purports to be quoting the exact words of a " Com-
municator," is peculiarly her own. For some reason
unknown she seldom fails to substitute an L for an R
(a habit which, by the way, she shares with Moyenne),
and the recorder is occasionally put to it to find intel-
ligible spelling for her impromptu creations. At times
356 (Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
immediate comprehension is difficult, and it took me—on
one occasion which I remember—several seconds to
interpret the first appearance of Feda's term " asnenemyn-
alien " as applied to a German subject.
Like Margaret again, she adopts and obstinately clings
to her own perversions of the names of her acquaintance,
both among the living and among the purporting com-
municators. She will spell out or pronounce accurately
such names as " Johnnie " or " Gerald " or " Radclylfe,"
but the bearers of these names will none the less remain
in her vocabulary as " Twonnie," " Gelly " and " Raddy "
respectively, and one is reminded of Margaret's constant
substitution of " Papo " for "Papa."
Like Margaret, Feda is winsome. Incomprehensible as
it may appear, in view of the certain amount of
apparently incorrect matter which in some sittings fills
in the gaps between the good and accurate, or merely
unverifiable matter retailed, Feda has a deep respect for
the truth, and to the best of my belief conscientiously
seeks to be truthful. Nor, in my opinion, are we qualified
to ascribe conscious mendacity to Feda until we know
more of the manner in which impressions reach her, or
of what means are available to her for the disentanglement
or classification of the various facts which reach her
consciousness. However that may be, she very often
appears scrupulously anxious to convey only what is
strictly accurate, and we may perhaps seek the reason
for this in one of her own utterances, when enlarging upon
her duties as an honest and conscientious control. " This
work is Feda's ploglession, if Feda told lies, Feda wouldn't
plogless." In any case her tender conscience is recog-
nisably akin to that which led Margaret to tell Dr.
Prince :
" Papo, I think I thunk a lie."
I will be quite irrelevant for a moment and make a
frank confession. I love Feda. Neither she nor Margaret
would be exactly comfortable folk to live with per-
manently, but Doctor Prince also loved Margaret. He
tells us that her final disappearance left him feeling as
though he had lost a loved child ; he informs us that
her last Will and Testament which he reproduces in his
Lxxxiv.] 'Modus Operandi' in Mediumistic Trance. 357
record was duly executed by him so far as was possible,
and it is quite unmistakable that Doctor Prince mourned
Margaret. I am thankful that it is not my duty to
ensure Mrs. Leonard's greater advantage by attempting
to squeeze or suggest Feda out of existence ; I should not
like the task.
I will not here attempt in any detail to go into the
complicated question of how far there is apparent co-
consciousness between the normal Mrs. Leonard and her
various psychic lodgers. I will only touch upon the fact
that here again there are parallels to be drawn between
her case and that of Doris Fischer. Mrs. Leonard has
almost total amnesia of all that occurs while Feda or any
so-called personal control holds sway. I use the term
almost total amnesia, because Mrs. Leonard states that
occasionally, especially if she allows herself to sit quiet
and composed after awaking from trance, isolated names,
or the impression of some subject or topic, will recur to
her mind ; and subsequent questioning of a sitter has
enabled her to ascertain that these fragments were
memories of the preceding trance.
Feda, on her part, claims the option of being au fait,
when she chooses, not only with the thoughts and life of
Mrs. Leonard, but with all that occurs at a sitting during
the purporting personal controls. She also claims the
power to perceive Mrs. Leonard's dreams during the
latter's normal sleep. According to Feda's own statements
she does not by any means always exercise these powers,
but the analogy is there with Doris Fischer, who con-
sciously remembered nothing of the intervals when
Margaret or one of her other personalities were demonstrat-
ing, whereas Margaret made good her claim to an almost
unceasing consciousness, irrespective of whether she was
manifesting or submerged, and another personality of the
Doris Fischer Case, Sleeping Margaret, likewise claimed
optional co-consciousness.
Of course, many persons will maintain that, failing
evidence to the contrary, it must be assumed that in both
Mrs. Leonard's case and that of Doris Fischer all the
personalities involved and manifesting through one organism
358 (Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
are merely different aspects of one and the same individual,
but, nevertheless, it appears to me that the two cases in
this respect also present analogies that may be worth
studying.
Undoubtedly Margaret possessed and used, not to say
misused, the power to compel Doris, from within, to act
sometimes according to her wishes. In some instances
Dr. Prince makes it clear that Doris was nonplussed and
displeased at finding herself performing actions or using
expressions foreign to her conscious inclination. Feda
does not claim any extensive power to influence Mrs.
Leonard in this way, but I was able to verify that upon
one occasion she did so up to a certain point. Feda
claimed that having seen and much coveted a yellow air-
balloon in a Windsor shop, she compelled Mrs. Leonard
to purchase it ; that on her way home to Datchet Mrs.
Leonard becoming embarrassed at her childish burden,
turned aside into a field and gave it as a plaything to
her Pekinese who, according to Feda, " sat on it with his
flont and bursted it." Not long after receiving Feda's
account of this affair I obtained spontaneously from Mrs.
Leonard full corroboration of the incident ; Mrs. Leonard
volunteering that she could not imagine what impulse had
led her to buy a silly thing which she was ashamed to
walk home with.
Margaret, though affectionate, was inaccessible to senti-
ment. With the exception of a certain sympathetic
interest which she displayed, especially during the middle
and latter part of her existence, towards the real Doris
and the other Personality known as Sick Doris, she knew
not sympathy for another's troubles. Feda also is
affectionate and, when dealing with bereaved sitters,
perfunctorily decorous, while discouraging emotion, but
this can only thinly veil her entire lack of emotional
understanding of or sympathy for human sorrow. Upon
one occasion when I visited Feda accompanied by my
friend and fellow-worker Miss Radclyffe-Hall, in whose
company I have more often than not visited Feda, and
whose loss would deeply pain me, Feda ejaculated with
a hilarious chuckle that it would indeed be fun for me
Lxxxiv.] 'Modus Operandi' in Mediumisfic Trance. 359
when, having survived my friend. I should attempt post-
mortem communication with her through Mrs. Leonard.
There is another aspect in which the two, while dis-
similar in attainment, are as one in their desires. Mar-
garet, at least during her youth and prime, consistently
desired to usurp every possible enjoyable moment of
Doris's daily life. Avoiding only such periods as were
fraught with uninteresting routine, or with the painful
consequences of her own misdeeds, she voraciously grabbed
the consciousness of every available pleasure, even to the
sugar on top of the cake, which she devoured, granting to
Doris only the uninteresting remains. Feda's powers of
usurpation are up to the present very much more cir-
cumscribed. Constrained to remain submerged unless the
medium consciously invites her to come forth, her enjoy-
- ment when in occupation, her reluctance to end her
periods of rule, her resentment when asked to abdicate
temporarily in favour of another control are closely
identical with Margaret's better realised desires.
Many more comparisons could be made which would
strengthen the case for similarity between Feda and
Margaret, but space forbids, and the above will suffice.
These being made we are left face to face with the
residual phenomena associated not only with Feda, but
with Mrs. Leonard's psychology as a whole. And this is
a subject that demands a study and treatment far beyond
my abilities ; even an adequate summary of the features
observed by me wherein Mrs. Leonard's case differs from
any recorded case of dissociation which I have studied,
and of the points wherein it offers aspects which may or
may not be paralleled in such cases, would be a long
affair, and one upon which I should fear to embark even
were sufficient space at my disposal.
In venturing to mention some of what I will merely call
" Things that do happen " during Mrs. Leonard's trance,
which have struck me as possibly significant, and in
further venturing to express here and there an opinion
as to a possible explanation, I am only presuming upon
my extensive experience of Mrs. Leonard's trance, and so
far from expecting my opinions to be taken as being of
360 {Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
importance, I am exclusively concerned with the hope that
something I may chance to write may awaken the interest
of persons better qualified than myself to investigate for
themselves with useful results.
In alluding to my experience of Mrs. Leonard's trance,
and in discussing the aspects of that trance which appear
to differentiate her case from the recorded cases of
Multiple Personality, I must first of all admit that there
is one trance or semi-trance state, to which Mrs. Leonard
is apparently subject, of which I have no personal
experience at all. I have already mentioned this con-
dition when enumerating her various states ; it is that
semi-hazy condition during which she produces script in
varying hand-writing, which has proved on several occasions
to convey accurate knowledge of contemporaneous or
recent events occurring at a distance and normally un-
known to the medium. I have seen some of the script
produced in this manner, and in alluding to its super-
normal value I am relying on the opinion expressed by
the recipient of a letter from Mrs. Leonard of which the
said script was a portion. He is a conscientious observer
of phenomena, and I am quite satisfied that he has made
all due allowances for chance coincidence or any other
normal explanation before ascribing evidential value to
the script.
As regards the manner of production of this and similar
scripts, our only authority is Mrs. Leonard herself, as this
phenomenon occurs only when she is alone, or in her
husband's presence, and then only when in the act of
writing personal letters to certain individuals. At some
stage in the writing of such letters, she tells me that her
hand appears to be controlled, and that, while she remains
conscious to a certain extent of what is being written,
she none the less feels obliged while the impulse lasts
to continue writing matter conveying no intelligible
meaning to her conscious mind. Two or more hand-
writings will sometimes be involved in one script, these
differing in some cases notably from the habitual hand-
writing of the normal Mrs. Leonard. On one occasion,
an initial signature appended having led the recipient to
Lxxxiv.] '
Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 361
suspect that the script originated from a particular source,
I submitted the script in question to the inspection of a
person well acquainted with the hand-writing of the
suspected deceased author. The hand-writing did not tally
with that of the presumed signatory. Nevertheless, it
was this actual script which contained an unmistakable
allusion to events quite outside Mrs. Leonard's normal
knowledge.
Before passing on to the subject of Mrs. Leonard's
trance condition as it is generally witnessed by myself
and the majority of sitters, I desire to point out another
problem which awaits solution, and in this respect I wish
incidentally to put forward a tentative suggestion. If
Mrs. Leonard is in an abnormal state when she produces
script, and if we add to this state the trance condition in
which Feda takes the field, have we perhaps in these two
conditions two different hypnotic levels, namely, a relatively
light hypnosis in which the primary consciousness remains
passively observant, and which is not followed by any
amnesia, and a deep somnambulism followed by almost
total amnesia ? In this latter deep trance the medium,
while displaying all the aspects of a not unfamiliar type
of secondary personality, is physically to a great extent
anaesthetic and analgesic, but would appear to be some-
what hyperaesthetic of hearing. In this state also she
gives evidence of a power of acquiring the knowledge of
facts without the assistance of the recognised organs of
sense.
If it be a tenable hypothesis that these two conditions
represent two different hypnotic levels, how then are we
to classify another state to which Mrs. Leonard is also
subject ? I allude to that condition which is familiar
-
to only a few of Mrs. Leonard's sitters, and in which,
without any apparent intermediate return to normal
consciousness, Feda gives way to that condition which
purports to be Personal Control by a deceased friend or
relation of the sitter. This supposed phenomenon forms
a large part of the repertoire of many inferior mediums,
degenerating very often in their case into a kaleidoscopic
succession of completely uninteresting impersonations, none
362 (Una) Lady Trouhridge. [part
of Avhich are able to put forward anything of interest as
a basis for their claim to any particular identity, and
many of which, under the aegis of the most exalted and
renowned names, give forth platitudinous prattle emanating
from the hysterical sub-consciousness of the partially
educated medium.
In Mrs. Leonard's case the state in which this personal
control ostensibly occurs is only witnessed by a very
few of her sitters, and seldom by any who have not sat
with her regularly during some months. Not long ago
Feda informed me that not more than half a dozen
entities had ever controlled Mrs. Leonard, and though
several personal controls have arisen since then, their
number is still, and I trust will remain, very limited.
In Mrs. Leonard this condition varies very markedly
from the Feda state, and displays features which suggest
to me that it is possibly yet another hypnotic level.
In it the motor faculties are largely in abeyance. Where
Feda can sit erect, sway or jerk her body, wave her
arms, move her legs, and has even been known to walk
about the room, and where Feda's strident tones are
frequently audible outside the seance room, rising if Feda
be so inclined to a robust shout, each successive personal
control in its incipient stages struggles amid silent
intervals to achieve a barely audible whisper. Movement,
or indeed anj/ control of the physical organism, is very
limited, and when a personal control is manifesting, the
medium generally either lies against the chair like a log
or flops limply upon the sitter's shoulder. Even a much
practised personal control achieves but a very limited
command of the organism as regards motion and vocal
energy ; it has apparent difficulty in keeping the vertebral
column erect, and in maintaining an ordinary conver-
sational volume of tone. The power of mental concen-
tration appears partially wanting, and immense effort is
required to produce evidential matter which would be
freely given by Feda.
On the other hand, a totally different faculty is
demonstrated, sometimes to a startling degree ; that of
the reproduction with varying success of intonations, vocal
Lxxxiv.] ' Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 363
mannerisms and general characteristics pertaining to
deceased persons whom the medium had never known.
It is difficult to convey an accurate impression of
these personal controls to anyone who has never wit-
nessed the production, through the agency of a really
fine medium, of phenomena of this description. Any
assertion regarding these impersonations is naturally
open to the suspicion that the imagination and ex-
pectation of a witness may play a very considerable
part in the impression received. There is present in
nearly all such cases the auto-suggestion that one par-
ticular familiar character is to be personated, and the
sitter's mind is consciously and unconsciously attuned
to perceive even accidental or imaginary resemblances.
On the other hand, where the purporting personal
control fails in the attempted impersonation, there is
always to hand the excuse that the medium's organism
is bound to colour and affect to some extent any-
thing that is received through that organism. Neverthe-
less, in my own experience these objections have been
countered to a great extent by the fact that the purport-
ing personal control with which I am most familiar, that
referred to as the A. V. B. Control in the paper on Leonard
phenomena by Miss Radclyiie-Hall and myself, published
in the S.P.R. Proceedings, has in the majority of cases
been witnessed by both myself and Miss Radclyffe-Hall,
who generally make a habit of accompanying each other
to Leonard sittings. Under these circumstances it has
very often happened that the intonation of some particular
sentence, or the reproduction of some familiar mannerism
by the A. V. B. Control, has struck us simultaneously, and
on occasions when I have been the recorder during the
A. V. B. Control, subsec|uent questioning of Miss Radclyffe-
Hall, before her inspection of the record, has revealed
that the points of resemblance which had impressed her
were precisely those indicated as remarkable in the record.
Another interesting aspect of these personal controls,
which is not demonstrated in the A. V. B. Control but
which I have witnessed on various occasions, is the repro-
duction with considerable success of a male timbre of
364 (Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
voice when the entity purporting to control the medium
is a man. In my opinion ventriloquism, as frequently
witnessed by me in public exhibitions by experts, does
not account for this aspect of the Leonard phenomena.
Mr. Arthur Prince, the leading professional ventriloquist
of our day, whose public performance seldom lasts more
than twenty minutes or half an hour, during part of
which time he is speaking in his natural voice, exhibits,
as his performance proceeds, every sign of the exhaustion
consequent upon the execution of a difficult feat. Despite
the fact that he must have carefully trained himself to
conceal all evidences of strain, those evidences are visible ;
though he is carefully made up, and quite obviously at
pains to conceal the effort entailed by his performance,
I have never seen him achieve his turn without the
perspiration pouring down his face, necessitating the use
of his handkerchief, and his final bow is that of a man
who has worked hard to earn the applause of his public.
I have in my possession my own record of a Personal
Control at which I was present some months ago in Mrs.
Leonard's house at Datchet. Following upon a Feda
Control of some length, an elderly Scotch gentleman
purported to control the medium for forty minutes. The
Control was, as far as my experience goes, an unusually
strong one. It spoke throughout most of its duration in
robust and fully audible tones of a surprisingly masculine
quality, interriapted at intervals by paroxysms of coughing
and wheezing characteristic of the bronchial asthma which
had afflicted the gentleman purporting to control during
his lifetime. The fits of coughing were very violent, con-
veying to me the impression of unavailing efforts to
break up accumulations of phlegm obstructing the bronchial
passages. The entire effect was unquestionably that of
a masculine sufferer, and the timbre of the speaking
voice was not only masculine in quality, but gave every
appearance of acquiring this quality in a normal and
effortless manner from the larynx. Except for the wheez-
ing, I did not receive any impression of the voice being
strained or forced. From this control, lasting, as I have
stated, forty minutes, Mrs. Leonard awoke to normal
Lxxxiv.] 'Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 365
consciousness in less than one minute. Her face showed
no signs of perspiration or exhaustion, she entered immedi-
ately into conversation with myself without a trace of
hoarseness, and appeared as devoid of all cough or chest
obstruction as she had been before the sitting and
during the Feda Control.
I will now briefly enumerate a few other features
wherein these Personal Controls differ markedly from the
Feda Control. Feda's appearance is invariably heralded
by a few moments of mere quiescence upon the part of
the medium, who sits silently with closed eyes until the
moment when Feda begins to whisper, then to speak
audibly, and the sitting commences. The interval which
divides the departure of Feda from the appearance of a
personal control invariably, in my experience, shows in a
more or less marked degree one quite distinct feature.
Feda having announced her departure, a moment's absolute
quiescence on the part of the medium is followed by a
long and steady exhalation of breath, sometimes prolonged
to a surprising extent. I have myself compared the effect
produced to that which would be obtained by steady
pressure upon a partially unscrewed air-cushion, and it is
sometimes difficult to understand how any normal lungs
can produce an exhalation of such duration. Mrs. Salter
is familiar with this phenomenon, which she has witnessed
with interest on several occasions. I have not so far
attempted to time this exhalation of breath with a stop-
watch, but it might be interesting to do so.
Both Miss Radclyffe-Hall and myself are of the impres-
sion that, when under what purports to be personal control,
Mrs. Leonard's body gradually acquires a dead weight of
total unconsciousness which is absent in the Feda Control,
but, of course, in this respect full allowance must be
made for the fact that in the case of the A. V. B. Control
the sitter is almost invariably partially supporting the
limp form of Mrs. Leonard. The sitter therefore becomes
tired as the control proceeds, and would probably derive
a fictitious impression of the body gradually increasing
in weight. Another more certainly distinctive feature of
at least one personal control, namely, the A. V. B. Control,
366 {Una) Lady Trouhridge. [part
is a pronounced hyperaesthesia of touch affecting the
fingers, and complained of as being actually distressful.
Feda, on the other hand, is, as has been said, to some
extent anaesthetic and analgesic.
But the peculiarity of the personal controls which to
my mind chiefly suggests their involving a lower hypnotic
level than either the semi-conscious automatic state of
Mrs. Leonard or the Feda state, is the apparent impos-
sibility of maintaining them for more than a short time,
and their tendency to merge, in spite of much apparent
effort and resistance on the part of the complex involved,
either into the Feda state, or more usually into Mrs.
Leonard's normally conscious condition.
In previously mentioning a personal control lasting
forty minutes, I alluded to one of the longest I have ever
witnessed, and the purporting control in question had
been developed during many months of frequent practice.
The A. V. B. Control, also a very fully developed one
through over two years of frequent sittings, has upon
one occasion achieved a record of sixty minutes, but this
is exceptional. Half an hour is an average duration,
and incipient personal controls seldom manifest for more
than a few minutes, whereas Feda will, if encouraged or
permitted, chatter on occasion for three hours on end,
and quite recently has so extended her periods of occupa-
tion that steps have had to be taken to curtail a length
of trance considered prejudicial to Mrs. Leonard's health.
The personal controls, on the other hand, while conveying
every appearance of desiring to remain on the scene,
are often cut off actually in the middle of a sentence,,
the sitter having to remain during the wane of the
control, alert to catch Mrs. Leonard's body as the final
spark of animation departs from it, and prop her safely
into her chair. LTsually she returns within about one
minute to normal consciousness, and this after a personal
control of any duration is invariably the case, but
occasionally an incipient personal control extending over
a few minutes only will be replaced by Feda prior to the
medium's waking. It may be objected that the fact of
the personal controls invariably following upon a Feda
Lxxxiv.] '
Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 367
control would in itself be sufficient to account for the
tendency shown by these latter to merge back into the
primary consciousness. With a view to ascertaining
whether or not this was the case, and whether a personal
control if allowed to supervene during the early part of
the sitting would not contrive to hold the field during
as long a time as that generally achieved by Feda, Miss
Radclyffe-Hall and myself upon several occasions persuaded
Feda to allow the A. V. B. Control to supplant her soon
after the commencement of the sitting. The duration of
the A. V. B. Control under these circumstances was neither
more nor less than is customary on occasions when Feda
is permitted to remain on the scene for an hour or longer.
The A. V. B. Control, having set in with high hopes of
enjoying an extended period of occupation, began to wane
as is usual after a certain time, and the only result of
the experiment was a considerable curtailment of the
sittings at which this experiment was tried.
I will now leave the subject of the personal controls
and restrict myself to that of the state most frequently
involved in the production of Mrs. Leonard's phenomena :
that in which Feda is the agent conveying information.
Mtmbers of the Society for Psychical Research are not
unfamiliar with this aspect of Mrs. Leonard's phenomena.
Some of them have actually tested Mrs. Leonard's powers
for themselves, and others know of them through Sir
Oliver Lodge's book Ray^nond and through the various
papers which have been read at the meetings of this
Society. I will instance Sir Oliver Lodge's Paper upon
the incidents of " Faunus " and the " Group photograph,"
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick's recent Paper upon the book tests,
Mrs. Salter's Paper upon the results obtained during
three months' investigation of Mrs. Leonard's phenomena
l)y our Society, and the two Papers upon a series of
Leonard sittings held by Miss Radclyffe-Hall and myself,
which were read before the Society by Miss Radclyffe-
Hall. From these Papers even those members who have
never sat with Mrs. Leonard will have attained a general
idea of what happens during a Feda Control. Bearing
in mind that the entire object of the sitting is invariably
368 {Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
the conveying of evidence for personal survival of bodily
death,1 we note that this aim is approached by many
methods. At one time Feda will devote herself to personal
descriptions of the appearance of the departed, at another to
peculiarities of temperament or character which they are
asserted to have possessed. Incidents in their past lives,
places visited by them either in company with the sitter,
alone, or otherwise accompanied, articles owned by them,
associations grave or humorous shared with the sitter or
with other relations or friends, names of communicators,
names of their relations or friends living or deceased,
nicknames used in bygone years, domestic pets formerly
in their possession and names or characteristics pertaining
to these, anything, weighty or trivial, tragic or humorous,
that the sitter might be expected to recognise or to be
able subsequently to verify, is considered by Feda as
matter worth retailing. Whether it be the memory of a
birthmark, or of a scar acquired by accident, or some
detail of the final illness, provided it offers features
sufficiently distinctive to render chance coincidence unlikely,
all is fish that comes to Feda's net, and with this much
of her point of view I emphatically agree.
Another not infrequent aspect of the phenomena is the
attempt, sometimes in my experience surprisingly successful,
to convey a purporting communicator's knowledge of the
actions and mental processes of persons far distant at the
time of the sitting, but in some way connected either by
relationship or intellectual or material interest with either
the communicator or the sitter. Together with statements
regarding the actions and mental processes of a certain
individual will sometimes be given a prognosis of certain
events likely to result from them. In all these very
dissimilar lines of effort there is a varying degree of
success and failure, which can be studied to a certain
extent in the Proceedings of the Society in the various
papers to which I have alluded ;
special consideration
should be given to what is perhaps up to now the
^ Mrs. Leonard sits for this object and this object only, and never
consents to sit with a view to supplying any information materially
beneficial to the sitter.
Lxxxiv.] '
Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 369
most ambitious type of phenomena produced by the
agency of the Feda control, namely, the Book Tests
dealt with in Mrs. Henry Sidgwick's Paper. It is not
here within my scope to attempt any estimate as to the
extent to which the records of the Feda phenomena,
published and unpublished, make good their claim of
eliminating normal knowledge on the part of the medium,
and in some instances knowledge on the part of
any person present, or on the part of any person who
could reasonably be expected to be in close telepathic
rapport with any person present at the sitting. It is,
however, admissible to point out that the possibility of
such comprehensive telepathic rapport has never been
satisfactorily proved by any experiment, and is so far
quite as little established as any other hypothesis that
we may care to consider.
I am for the purpose of this Paper only interested in
the possibility of obtaining a clue, not as to the source
whence the various impressions reach Feda, but as to
the manner in which they are impressed upon her con-
sciousness. And in our enquiry we must always bear
in mind that throughout the sittings Feda employs a
vocabulary of very limited extent wherein erudite
psychological terms have no place. Beyond the
occasional emergence of such non-committal spiritualistic
terms as "I sense " or "I get an impression of," Feda
is content to tell the sitter that she " sees," " hears,"
"feels," or "smells," as the case may be, though the
medium's eyes are invariably closed and neither the
sights, sounds, sensations nor smells described are perceptible
to the sitter.
Now there are certain aspects of the Feda phenomena
which leave me very doubtful as to whether these simple
sensory terms convey any accurate analogy with the
processes really involved. In any case, of course, the
sensory impressions could only be hallucinatory, but even
with this reservation there are many instances in connec-
- tion with which Feda's terminology leaves me dissatisfied.
Our late President, Doctor L. P. Jacks, has recently
in our Jourrial opened an interesting discussion regarding
2 B
370 (Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
the origin of the personal descriptions of the appear-
ance of the departed as given by mediums when in
trance and particularly by Feda. The point which
exercised his mind was whether the descriptions given
approximated to the deceased person's impression or
memory of his own appearance before bodily death, to
his actual appearance after bodily death, or to the
sitter's memory of the personal appearance of the
deceased. This question remains of great interest, and
one cannot but be glad that attention has been drawn
to this aspect of the phenomena, and that in this way
members of this Society have been encouraged to con-
tribute to the Journal any suggestions or hypotheses that
may occur to them. But there is another question that
has often arisen in my mind while listening to these
detailed personal descriptions, and indeed to other detailed
descriptions as given by Feda. If we put aside, as I
have tried to do throughout this paper, the question of
their source or origin, in what form do they reach or are
they presented to Feda ?
This problem is one that equally requires consideration
whether Feda be taken to be describing a bodily or a
spiritual actuality, the sitter's memory of a person or
place, or someone else's memory of the same.
In my experience Feda invariably prefaces her descrip-
tions with the statement, " Feda sees " such an one or
such a thing, or she may say, " They are building them-
selves up for Feda," or words to that effect, and she
then proceeds to describe what she " sees." Thus far
the thing is simple, but it becomes sensibly less so when
after many months of " seeing " A. V. B. regularly once a
week and sometimes oftener, she asks one day with
perfect nonchalance whether A. V. B. ever did her hair in
the one and only manner ever adopted by A. V. B., or
when Feda, announcing that A. V. B. is showing her a
picture, goes on to describe to Miss Radclyffe-Hall with
accuracy and in great detail a portrait of Miss Radclyjffe-
Hall herself which is now in my possession. Feda—until
subsequently questioned by me, at the termination of the
description of the picture
—
sees this picture. She tells.
Lxxxiv.] ' Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 371
us of its colouring, of the pose of the figure and hands,
that the expression is serious, even, she avers, what she
terms " soosillious." She further tells Miss Radclyffe-Hall
that the subject of the portrait is a pale, interesting-
looking woman, though young in years, and that the
picture is a striking one that Miss Radclyffe-Hall would
look at more than once, and that A. V. B. likes the said
picture, but Feda, who sees this picture and is able to
describe it at such length, never apparently for a moment
grasps the fact that the picture being described by her
is a portrait, and a striking resemblance at that, of the
very familiar sitter to whom she is speaking. Miss
Radclyffe-Hall, I am compelled to state, emphatically
denies having telepathically assisted Feda in her descrip-
tion of the portrait !
It is such incidents as I have described above that
have led me to suspect that in many instances where
Feda describes persons and objects, she uses the term
" seeing " merely as a habit of speech, and that the
process involved may more likely be a series of impressions
received by her telepathically one at a time, or collected
by her telepathically one by one from some mind incarnate
or discarnate as the case may be.^ This hypothesis
would also account for the manner in which the descrip-
tions are often dealt out, bit by bit, conveying to the
recipient or listener the impression of someone finding
isolated pieces all connected with one jig-saw puzzle and
dealing them out one by one with a view to their being
fitted together by the recipient into an intelligible whole.
It is surely incredible that Feda or anyone else should
see a person minus their most striking peculiarity of
features or colouring, and yet this must frequently be
presumed to be the case if Feda's seeing is to be accepted
at face value. I have myself known her purport to see
clearly a communicator whose appearance she minutely
described, giving a perfectly accurate account of his
features, complexion, expression, including the fact that
1 A further instance which appears to support this hypothesis will be
found in Mrs. Salter's " Further Report on the Phenomena of Mrs.
Leonaid," Proc. S.P.R., vol. xxxii., p. 87 ff.
372 (Una) Lady Troubridge. I [part
he was remarkably handsome and struck her as having
what she most evidentially described as "a clear look,"
but she remained to all appearance in ignorance that the
most distinguishing features of his appearance were pre-
maturely snow-white hair of remarkable abundance, and
eyes of a peculiarh^ vivid blue.
Feda's alleged hearing is open to the same criticism
and question. Mrs. Leonard's hearing as her sight, when
in the normal state, is good to an average degree. She
claims that just before a sitting when, as she would put
it, she " feels Feda about," she acquires a marked hyper-
aesthesia of hearing, and this claim is corroborated by
her husband, but has not otherwise been tested. It
may, however, be remarked that Mrs. Leonard told me
of this hyperaesthesia of hearing when asking me to warn
prospective sitters, whom I accompanied to her house as
recorder, against mentioning to me any evidential matter
after entering the house. Mrs. Leonard said she feared
that she might inadvertently overhear them, even
though there might be several walls between her and the
speaker.
To return, however, to the subject of Feda's hearing.
This appears, as regards mundane matters, to be rather
specially acute. She will often notice and draw a sitter's
attention to such sounds as a distant aeroplane or church
bell which, though audible when attention is drawn to
them and they are listened for in silence, would not
reach the consciousness of the sitter or recorder through
the more insistent sound of Feda's conversation. When,
however, Feda claims to " hear " names or words spoken
by the purporting communicators, her hearing appears to
be much less reliable, if indeed " hearing " be not yet
again her conventional word for some inexpressible means of
perception. She will claim that a communicator is telling
her a certain name, she will lean forward in her chair
with her head inclined as though concentrated upon
listening to some dimly apprehended sound, she will
whisper to herself attempted equivalents, and she will
often abandon of her own accord the attempt to hear,
and will resort to drawing one by one, with her finger in
Lxxxiv.] ' Modus Operandi ' in Mediumistic Trance. 373
the air, or perhaps upon the sitter's sleeve, letters that
she avers are being " written " or " built up " by the
communicator for her to see. Sometimes she will not
await the completion of a word by this process, but
having spelt up one syllable or two will suddenly remark,
" Oh, it's such and such a name." Sometimes, on the
other hand, she will write up the entire word letter by
letter, before she makes any attempt to utter it. But
even then, it is not always the word as it would be
phonetically pronounced from the written letters that she
utters. Having written up a word accurately she will
on occasion pause, as though listening, and pronounce the
word, which in some cases may be a foreign one or some
nickname unfamiliar to her, with a correct though perhaps
unusual emphasis on a given syllable.
On one occasion I remember a somewhat similar
occurrence when, having written up the letters R.U.N.E.,
as the pet name of a dog, she remarked that the com-
municator, however, was not saying Rune, but Runie,
and both variants of the name were accurate. Yet Feda
appeared unable to hear either until she had gone through
the process of spelling up the separate letters of the
former variant.
Without going further into the question of the examples
that have struck me, I will merely say that I am as
doubtful of the face value of what Feda terms " hearing
"
as I am of that of her alleged " seeing."
There is another aspect of the phenomena which in
my opinion points to a succession of mental impressions
telepathically conveyed in the form of isolated facts from
some source to the medium's mind. Be they alphabetical
letters, a name or word, or the description of a scene
or of a mental state, I have often received a strong
impression that as a description proceeded Feda knew as
little as I did what would be the next brick in the
edifice. She will often hazard an unlikely but correct
detail with every appearance of diffidence, in an apologetic
manner seeming to discount expected ridicule or expostu-
lation from the sitter. She will make an accurate state-
ment regarding some unlikely detail and go on to comment
374 {Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
on the possibility of her not having correctly apprehended
this particular point. Sometimes, it is true, her
descriptions are such as might be given by a person
contemplating an individual, a scene, or a picture, and
recounting as they came to her notice the various details
observed, but often the impression conveyed suggests an
entirely different process.
This is especially the case when, as occasionally happens,
we meet with examples of compound descriptions. That
is to say, when Feda gives us a personal description of
one individual combining the characteristics of two or
more persons known to the sitter, who have borne the
same surname or who have some point of similarity in
appearance or circumstances, or when a communicator is
made to describe as one event matters occurring upon
two or more occasions of a rather similar nature.
If we accept as possible that the facts retailed to us
by Feda are either projected on to her brain, or are
collected hj her from some other mind incarnate or
discarnate, then it would seem possible that the clarity
of the impressions largely depends upon the conscious or
unconscious faculty of concentration in the mind tapped
or conveying the facts.
For convenience' sake we will at this point postulate an
intentional communicator, either living or dead. Although
the evidence so far obtained for telepathy between the
living leaves it an open question whether or no concen-
tration by the agent upon the idea to be conveyed
militates for or against success —and indeed the experi-
ments recorded in Mr. Hubert Wales' recent Paper would
appear to show that in his case the impressions which
reached Miss Samuels were in no case those which he had
consciously tried to convey —nevertheless, it must not be
overlooked that Feda definitely claims that the purporting
communicators not only throughout the sittings exert
every faculty to impress her with those particular incidents
or facts which they desire to convey, but she constantly
states that in many cases they utilise the intervals between
sittings for the preparation of what they shall say when
the sitter arrives.
Lxxxiv.] ' Modus O'perandi '
in Ilediumistic Trance. 375
While admitting the possibility that the process is
quite other, and that Feda merely selects from some
source the facts which, independent of the communicator's
consciousness, happen to be the most accessible to her
percipience, we must nevertheless admit that her own
description of the method employed may be the more
correct ; and indeed I think the phenomena as I have
observed them tend to support her statements. Even
remarkably successful telepathic experiments, such as those
recorded by Mr. Wales, are of a fragmentary, scrappy
nature such as might credibly be the result of a per-
cipient fishing in the agent's unconscious mind for any
available small fry of fact that may take the bait. I
do not think experimental telepathy has ever obtained
the transfer of a lengthy consecutive description of some
incident or event entailing divers names, details and
memories, such as are not infrequently given by Feda.
It is difficult to conceive that Feda, having tapped
in some unconscious mind a bare fact concerning some
memory or event, could continue for perhaps nearly an
hour weeding the unconsciousness of the said mind and
selecting for repetition only such mental material as
would bear upon the theme selected. I confess that I
find it easier, at any rate in the case of the lengthy and
detailed descriptions pertaining to one topic, to conceive
of them as emanating intentionally and consciously from
some agent having to some extent the power to choose
what impressions shall or shall not reach Feda.
Upon this hypothesis it would appear that, so long as
the communicator can keep some given portion of his
mind exclusively upon the one fact or event which he
desires to give or describe as evidence, Feda's descriptions
will be relatively clear and accurate. Should, however,
the communicator's mind wander ever so little, his irrele-
vant thought will be as likely to reach Feda as any thought
relevant to the subject in hand, and when it does so will
appear in some form in her narrative. Feda apparently
cannot always disentangle relevant from irrevalent impres-
sions, nor does it always appear as though the hypo-
thetical communicator were aware of the exact extent
376 {Una) Lady Troubridge. [part
to which his unintentional thoughts may be conveyed to
her.
Supposing, for instance, I, being deceased, wished to
describe through Feda my country residence and its
garden with ornamental pond, and that I should allow
the thought to cross my mind that upon some particular
occasion friends came down to view the garden who had
admired the pond and particularly enjoyed a good supper
of lobster salad, I might easily appear in Feda's utterances
as a demented spirit who asserted that I had owned an
ornamental pond in which I kept lobsters and grew
salad ! I have known an improbability of this kind
followed by indications denoting excitement on the part
of the communicator. I have known this excitement
either bewildering Feda, or being interpreted by her as
denoting the spirit's eagerness to emphasize that the
unlikely statement is correct, and I have been unable to
resist picturing myself as an unfortunate communicator fully
able to gauge the extent to which my communication had
gone wrong, and making matters worse by conveying tele-
pathically an unintelligible chaos of excitement and dismay..
Sometimes the compound description is not difficult
to unravel, and an example of this kind occurred during
one of the sittings taken by Miss Radclyffe-Hall which I
recorded. The purporting communicator known as A. V. B.
apparently wished to describe one or two experiences of
a religious nature which she had undergone during her
lifetime, and during her friendship with Miss Radclyffe-
Hall. It remains doubtful to this day whether the event
which it was intended to describe was a private audience
with the Pope at the Vatican which A. V. B. had some
years before her death, or a Retreat made by her at a
convent shortly before she died. Features recognisable as
belonging to both these occurrences appeared in the
descriptions given by Feda, although all the points given
were said to be in connection with one event. Granted
the possibility that all these details were being obtained
from the mind of the supposed communicator, I can
hardly conceive her having been able to think of one
of these events without also, however involuntarily, being;
Lxxxiv.] ' Modus Operandi '
in Mediumistic Trance. 317
reminded of the other. A. V. B. was not a woman
given to constant religious practices. She was a good
CathoKc, but not excitable about her religion, and the
two events of which we have spoken were in many-
years the only two striking events of her life closely-
associated with the ceremonial of the Roman Catholic
Church. There were many points of similarity between
the two events, such, for instance, as the wearing of a
special black dress and veil, benedictions received, a
certain amount of mental and spiritual preparation in-
volved, which might easily, had the communicator lived
to be very old, have become confused in her own mind
whilst alive ; it would not, therefore, be surprising if any
attempt to convey one or other event by a telepathic
process, or by any indirect process, should result in
confusion of the two events.
Occasionally, if the topic touched upon should be one
in which Mrs. Leonard is herself interested, figments of
her own opinions and associations will also intrude,
rendering the compound yet more complex.
I remarked an instance of this type of triple compound
during a sitting at which I recorded for our former
President, Doctor L. P. Jacks. He has already in a
public utterance alluded, though in a somewhat disguised
manner, to this occurrence, bvit he neglected to mention
the following circumstance. The compound entity pro-
duced by Feda of an old and a j^oung man, who both
bore the same surname, but although related to each other
differed widely in their circumstances, and at a later
sitting were disentangled correctly as two separate persons,
contained at the earlier sitting elements of yet another
bearer of the same surname. The origin of this last
intrusion was in my opinion Mrs. Leonard's not entirely
dormant association of the surname in question with a
celebrated young author killed in the War, whose Christian
name, quite dissimilar from that of either of the two
other entities involved in the compound, was murmured
doubtfuUj^ several times by Feda.
There are many other instances which I could quote
as examples of " Things which do happen " in Mrs..
378 {Una) Lady Troubridge. [part Lxxxiv.]
Leonard's trance, and indeed in the trance of any genuine
medium, whether producing mental or physical phenomena,
and which call for an explanation not as yet forthcoming,
but I think the examples which I have already given
suffice for my purpose.
That purpose is to urge upon all and any who may
be actual or potential workers in the field of Psychical
Research my conviction that there is a wide field for common
work between those who regard the observed phenomena
as pointing to survival of bodily death, those in whose
opinion these phenomena tend to disprove it, and those
who genuinely keep an open mind. Whatever may be
the ultimate possibilities of establishing a scientific solution
of this all-important problem, there is in the meantime
no lack of work that should be acceptable to any unpre-
judiced person interested in the subject, none being able
to foresee whither the study of the modus operandi involved
will lead.
REVIEW
Psychology and Psychotherapy. By William Brown, M.A.,
M.D. (Oxon), D.Sc. (Lond.). London : Ed-\vard Arnold,
1921. Pp. xi, 196.
Collected Papers on the Psychology of Phantasy. By Dr.
Constance E. Long. London : Bailliere, Tindall and
Cox, 1920. Pp. xii, 216.
The New Psychology and its Relation to Life. By A. G.
Tansley. London : George Allen and LTnwin, Ltd. 1920.
Pp. 283.
The three books at the head of this notice are a selection
from many, dealing with similar topics, which have apj^eared
during the last two years. They are all concerned with new
outlooks in psychology which have grown out of the pioneer
work of Freud. None of the writers is a true Freudian, yet
each of them has been greatly influenced by Freud's "writings,
and each of them accepts some of the conclusions at which he
has arrived.
Dr. Brown's attitude towards Freudian doctrine is of
particular interest because he was one of the first academic
psychologists in this country to give sympathetic consideration
to the views of the psycho-analysts and to expound their
teachings. In pre-war days one felt that Dr. Brown was more
favourably disposed towards Freud's views than in this book
he shows himself to be, and it is permissible to think that his
present standpomt has been arrived at largely as a result of
his practical experience of the war neuroses. Like some other
eminent psychologists who had an opportunity of observing
and treating cases of shell-shock," Dr. Brown readily accepts
certain important tenets of the psycho-analytic school such as,
379
380 Review [part
for example, Freud's " theory of the cause of mental disso-
ciation, viz., that it is the result of mental conflict and involves
repression of emotional states " ; but he cannot fully subscribe
to the libido theory of the neuroses and therefore does not call
himself a Freudian.
On the psychological side Dr. Brown gives a good, although
necessarily brief, account of the theory of dissociation and an
exposition of Freud's theory of dreams and of the Unconscious.
In a chapter on " Theories of Emotion," he contrasts the
views of Ribot, Shand and M'Dougall with " Freud's theory
of instinct." The latter he considers vague and incomplete,
and he thmks it suffers from lack of historical relationship
Avith the work of expert psychologists. Not, however, until he
takes up the psychotherapeutic aspect of his subject do we
clearly realize the distance which separates Dr. Brown's views
from those of the psycho-analysts ; and yet the method of
treatment which he considers " the most helpful therapeutic
process in dealing with the majority of war psychoneuroses
"
is the method which formed the historical starting point of
psycho-analysis. This is the method of '
abreaction '
—the
process of working off repressed emotion during hypnosis
—
devised by Breuer forty years ago and described in these
Proceedings by Frederic W. H. Myers as far back as 1894.
{S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. IX., p. 12.)
Dr. Brown's record of the efficacy of abreaction in the
treatment of the war neuroses is very interesting and instruc-
tive ; for with the development of Breuer's method in the hands
of Freud, and the extension of the original theory of the
causation of hysteria, the peculiar value of abreaction tended to
be lost sight of, and not much corroboration of the early work
of Breuer and Freud has been afforded by subsequent observers.
Dr. Brown tells us that his most striking results were
obtamed by means of abreaction during light hypnosis. He
does not, however, make clear what he means by light hyp-
nosis ; and this he should have done seeing that he gives
expression to somewhat heterodox opinions on the relation
between suggestion and hypnosis. He does not accept those
degrees of hypnosis, ranging from slight somnolence to profound
" sleep," which have been universally recognized by followers
of the Nancy School. For him hypnosis begins at the stage
LXXXIV.] Review 381
^'
when the memory continuum of the patient is broken
across," and this he regards as " a psychological phenomenon
quite distinct from that of suggestibihty and calling for a
distinct explanation."
By most authors this stage is regarded as just the point
at which light hj^pnosis ends and deep hypnosis begins, so
that when Dr. Brown speaks of light hypnosis he must be
referring to a grade or degree of what is more commonly
called deep hypnosis or somnambulism. And indeed Dr. Brown
agrees with Janet that hypnosis is the reproduction of an
hysterical somnambulism in an hysterical subject. But if
that be so it is difficult to understand how Dr. BroAvn could
control the depth of the hjrpnosis so as to ensure that it was
" light." Whether it was " hght " or " deep " would depend
on the degree of dissociation accompanying the original
" hysterical " somnambulism whose reproduction was brought
about by the hypnotising process.
According to Dr. Brown there are four fundamental and
relatively independent i:)sychic factors at work in the cure of
mental illness. These are (1) psycho-synthesis or re-association
of the forgotten memories ; (2) psycho-catharsis or abreaction ;
(3) autognosis—a term introduced by Dr. Brown to indicate
a method devised by him which seems to be a mixture of
analysis, .suggestion, persuasion and re-education ; and (4) the
personal influence of the physician (suggestion). The last of
these four he rightly considers of the utmost importance
" since it is a determining condition of the effective working
of the other three factors."
In Part IV. of this book, under the headmg " Lessons of
the War," Dr. Brown gives an interesting account of his
personal experience in the treatment of war neuroses both in
the field and in the hospitals at home. The heading of this
section is perhaps misleading, for it may suggest that what is
here written contams new knowledge concerning the cause or
the cure of the psychoneuroses. But it is notorious that in
no department of medicine has less advance been made as a
result of war experience than in psychopathology and psycho-
therapeutics. All the methods used in dealing with the
neuroses of the war had already been in everyday use in the
therapeutics of pre-war days. What the war did was to
382 Review [part
increase enormously the number of people acquainted with the
theory and practice of psychotherapeutics, but in no direction
did it lead to any important addition to our knowledge of
these matters.
The last few pages of the book a.re devoted to Psychical
Research. Although Dr. Brown seems to be favourably in-
clined towards the scientific investigations into Spiritism he
wishes to sound a note of caution,
—" to suggest that all this
borders very closely on the realm of pathological psychology,
and that in such investigations you need to be quite sure that
the mind concerned is a normal one . . . that the states
described are not simply pathological mental states, rather
than something that is completely normal." Dr. Brown here
seems to be harbouring a very common misconception regarding
the kind of evidence that is relevant and important in
Psychical Research. To expect mediumistic phenomena to
occur in a mind that is " completely normal " is almost a
contradiction in terms ; but whether the state of a medium's
mind is one of normality or abnormalitj^ is surely quite irre-
levant and unimportant so far as the supernormality of the
manifestations is in question. As I wrote, in a former contri-
bution to these pages : "In regard to supernormal phenomena
it does not matter in the least what the term hysteria may
connote. The supernormality of an automatic script has to
be determined by other considerations than the psychological
state of the aiitomatist. If it can be shown that any hysteric
really has the gift of clairvoyance or any other supernormal
power, it will be just as good evidence as if he were a normal
person. If physical objects do move without contact in the
presence of anyone who is said to be hysterical, it is just as
wonderful as if they so move in '
the jDresence of some one
who is not." {S.P.B. Proceedings, Vol. XXVI., p. 275.)
Dr. Constance Long's Collected Papers on the Psychology of
Phantasy are a series of essays in that " Analytical Psy-
chology " which was founded by Jung, and they afford some
indication of the lines along which Jung has departed from the
Freudian position. Written in bright and non-technical
language, suited to the lay audiences to which most of them
were delivered, these papers x^ossess the advantages and clis-
LXXXIV.] Review 383
advantages which such a mode of exposition entails. They
are full of interest and information which cannot fail to be
helpful to those who come to the study of these topics for
the first time, but they sometimes lack the precision of
language which the serious student of the subject demands.
Thus, for example, on the second page " the unconscious " is
defined as " all that exists in the psyche, of which we are not
aware at a given moment. . . . The unconscious, the sub-
conscious, or the subliminal (as it is called by different authors)
contains all our memories from our earliest existence to the
present." On page 16 it is said :
" The unconscious mind is
pre-existent to the conscious mind. It is a racial possession,
common to all, and is not acquired during the life-time." On
page 77 we read : "I shall use the word '
unconscious '
in the
sense introduced by Freud."
These statements taken by themselves are misleading and
incompatible one with another ; and although no one who
reads Dr. Long's book from the beginning to the end need
have any doubts about her views on " the unconscious,"
nevertheless the persistent use of the same term in so many
different senses must j^ro^^© confusing to many readers.
It is needless, here, to describe in detail or to criticise the
doctrines put forward by Dr. Long. They are a faithful
exiDosition, so far as they go, of the teachmgs of Jung, and
our opinion of their theoretical and practical importance will
depend on the judgments we may have formed regarding
Jung's views as these are presented to us in the fuller exposi-
tions afforded by his own works. As an introduction to the
views of the Ziirich school this book can be confidently recom-
mended, and on the practical side it will be found to contain
much acute observation and sound advice.
Perhaps the woist thing about Mr. Tansley's book, The New
Psychology, is its title. Over a quarter of a century ago there
was a " new psychology " from which much was expected
—
the so-called " experimental psychology '"
; but it is now
commonly admitted that, as Mr. Tansley says, much of the
admirable work done in this field is not investigation of the
mind at all but merely a department of physiology. There
is already some danger that a somewhat similar fate may
384 Review [part lxxxiv.]
overtake the New Psychology of to-day if we stress too much
the newness of it. Dr. Long tells us in her preface to the
Psycliology of Phantasy, that a candid friend, who is an
a^cademic psychologist, bade her refrain from using such a title,
saying that the book had nothing to do with psychology.
There is the less justification for the adoption of such a
title as Mr. Tansley has chosen in that his avowed aim is to
present a picture of the structure and Avorking of the normal
human mind which combines the biological view of the mind
—as represented, for instance, in Dr. M'Dougall's well-known
Introduction to Social Psychology—with the concepts which we
owe mainly to Freud and Jung. It is not, therefore, a new
psychology which Mr. Tansley presents to us, but the old
psj'chology as it is modified by certain facts discovered by the
psychopathologists
.
Both Dr. Brown and Dr. Long, in the books under review,
are occupied with joarts of the same subject-matter as Mr.
Tansley deals ^^ith, but both the former writers very largely
restrict themselves to the domain of psychopathology and
psychotherapeutics. Mr. Tansley takes a wider outlook and
endeavours to point out the consequences of applying the new
doctrines in the psychology of the normal, and to indicate
the bearing of these doctrines on all the problems and activities
of human life.
This is assuredly a work which is necessary, but it is
doubtful if the time is yet ripe for its satisfactory performance.
Many of the new views are of so tentative a character and so
liable to revision in the light of fresh facts, that any attempt
to incorporate them in a systematic exposition of the " science
of human life " is ajDt to lead to errors which time and
fui'ther knoAvledge would have eliminated. Nevertheless, Mr.
Tansley's attempt to do this necessary Avork here and now is
a notable achievement, and no student of contemporary psy-
chology can afford to disregard this book.
T. W. Mitchell.
I
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XXXII
(PARTS LXXXII-LXXXIV)
1922
Abnormal Psychology, Problems in - - - - - 349, 37!)
Abreaction 380
Aigner, Dr., Eine imaufgekliirte Einwirkung der menschlichen
Hand auf die Photographische Platte, Reference to 178 (footnote)
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Problems of Hypnotism : An Experimental
Investigation - - - - - - - - -151
Baggally, W. W. See Eva C, Sittings with.
Baggally, Mrs., Sittings with Eva C. 307
Balfour, The Rt. Hon. G. W., Sittings with Mrs. Leonard 4-5 (footnote)
Barety, A., Reference to his experiments in hypnotism - - 174
Barrett, Lady, M.D., Sitting with Eva C. 239
Barrett, Sir William, Experiments in hypnotism - 164-165, 178
Beadon, Mrs., Sittings with Mrs. Leonard ----- 69-72
Beanchamp Case of Multiple Personality, Similarities "between
" Sally " and some medimnistic " Controls " - - 350, 351
Beaufort, j., Sittings with Eva C. - - 226, 227, 229, 231, 270
Beilby, Sir C4eorge, Sitting with Eva C. - - - - - 279
Bennett, Captain E. N., Sittings with Eva C. - - 238, 239, 247
Bien Boa. See Eva C, Algiers, Materializations at.
385
386 Index to Vol. XXXll. [parts
Bisson, Mme. Juliette, Personal observations of Eva C."s
mediumship 210, 211, 223, 224, 244, 306, 310, 315, 316, 326, 330,
332, 338-339, 342, 343.
See also the Society's Report on A Series of Sittings with Eva C.
Boirac. E., Reference to his experiments on the conductibility
of nervous effluence - - - - - - - 173, 175
Book-tests, Reference to Mrs. Sidgwick's examination of
7 (footnote), 45, 70
Braid, James, Reference to his hypnotic tlieories - - - 151
Bramwell, Dr. J. Mihie, On bhstering by suggestion - - - 201
,, ,, Therapeutic results in conditions un-
associated with symptoms of hyjD-
nosis. Reference to - - 152 (footnote)
Breuer, References to work of ------ - 380
Brown, William, M.D., Psychology and Psychotherapy, Review of 379
Charcot, Reference to his hypnotic theories
151-152, 165, 167-168, 175-176
Chenoweth, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of - - - - - 350
Child Controls 350, 353 (footnote)
Collected Papers on the Psychology of Phantasy, by Dr. Constance E.
Long, Review of 37(>
Communicators
—
A. V. B. 14, 44-68
Beadon, Colonel 70-72
E. A. 67, 68-69
Controls
—
A. Y. B. 6, 59, 63, 66-67
Personal ----- 363, 365-366, 367
E. A. 69
Feda, Similarities between, and Margaret in the Doris
Fischer case 351-359
Controls, Similarities between secondary personalities and - 349-359
Cook, Florence, Reference to the mediumship of - - - 209
Crawford, Dr. W. J., Experiments in Psychical Science, and The
Reality of Psychic Phenomena, Criticism
of 147-150
,, ,, The Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle,
Review of - - - - - - 147
Sitting with Eva C. 269
Crookes, Sir William, Reference to his experiments with Florence
Cook 209
D., Mrs. J., Sitting with Mrs. Leonard - - - - 67, 68-69
D'Albe, Dr. Fournier. See the Society's Report on Eva C.
Lxxxii-Lxxxiv.] lyidex to Vol. XXXII. 387
Desmet, Mrs. 270
Dessoir, Pi-ofessor Max, Vom Jenseits der Seele, Review of - - 146
Ding-wall, E. J., Phenomena of Eva C, The Hypothesis of Fraud 309
,, Review of Dr. Crawford's The Psychic Structures
at the GoUgher Circle - - - • - 147
See also the Society's Report on Eva C. : Sitters.
Diomira AUegri, Stigmata of 193-194, 204
Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality, Similarities between
Margaret and Mrs. Leonard's control - - - - 851-359
E. A. Communicator -------- 67, 68-69
Control 69
Elliott and Fry, Assistance given in the experiments with Eva C. 215
Eusapia Paladino, Telekinetic phenomena . - - - 144, 146
Eva C'\ Report on a Series of Sitti7igs with - - - - 209
Algiers, Villa Carmen, Materializations at. References to 210, 309
Bisson, Mme., Question of the position of - 310-311, 330, 334
„ Partial Control of - 252, 255, 256, 262, 263, 270
Committee of Investigation - - - - - - 212
Conclusions --------- 332
Detailed Report of the Sittings ----- 226-308
Hypothesis of Fraud 309
Case for and against the phenomena - - - 329-330
Investigations of tlie medivun, former - - - - 210-211
,, ,, ,, present, object of - - 211-212
Medimn, Condition during the Sittings - - - - 218
,, Examination of, with reference to the theory of
regurgitation 338-340
History of 210-211
,, Hypnotic trance of - - - - 311 (footnote)
Miroir portraits. Reference to - - 314-315 (and footnote)
Phenomena, General account of - - - - - 223-225
Cold breeze 225, 302, 306, 325, 330
Luminosity, Apparent - - 227-228, 229, 233, 284, 285
" Substance," teleplastic 224, 229, 232, 234, 235, 240, 247-
248, 254, 255, 274-276, 282, 283, 307, 323
Touches 262, 263
Photographic operator ------- 226
Photographs - 231, 236, 239, 246, 260, 26L 306
Regurgitation theory 210 (footnote), 290, 318-327, 329, 333, 335,
339, 340, 341-342.
„ „ Examination of the mediimi with
reference to 319 (footnote), 338-340
Sittings, General Accouiit - - - - - - - 213
388 Index to Vol. XXXII. [PABTS
" Eva C",
Conduct of the seances - - - - - 216-219
Control 219-223
Veil worn by medium - - - - 262, 263-301
Notes taken 226 (footnote)
Seance room 213-216
Sittings, Detailed Report - - - - :; - - 226-308
Sitters
—
Abbreviations for the names - - - 226 (footnote)
Baggally, W. W. 212. 231, 238, 239, 240, 243, 248, 251, 256,
258- 259, 260, 262, 263, 269, 277, 279, 285, 288, 289, 290,
292, 296, 301, 307, 324, 341-343.
Baggally, Mrs. - - 307
Barrett, Lady 239
Beaxifort, J. - - - - 226, 227, 229, 231, 270
Beilby, Sir George 279
Bennett, Captain E. N. - - - - 238, 239, 247
Bisson, Mme. JuHet 214, 216, 217, 218, 219, 220, 221-222,
223-224, 226, 227, 228, 229, 230, 231-236, 237-238, 239,
240, 241-242, 243, 244-245, 247, 248-249, 250, 251-258,
261, 262, 263, 264, 267, 269-273, 275, 276, 278, 279-283,
288-294, 296-300, 301, 302, 305, 307-308, 314, 323, 334, 336.
Bisson, Mme. Juhet, Question of position of 310-311, 330, 334
Crawford, Dr. W. J. 269
D'Albe, Dr. Fournier 277, 279, 282, 284-289, 297, 302-304,
305, 307-308, 325, 327.
Desmet, Mrs. 270
Dingwall, E. J. 212, 221, 247, 250-253, 256-257, 259, 260-261,
262, 263, 264-267, 269, 270, 271-276, 277-278, 279-282,
284-295, 296-305, 307-308, 309, 342.
Feilding, Hon. Everard 212, 215 (footnote), 226, 227, 228,
229, 231, 232, 234, 239, 240, 243, 247, 248, 250, 251, 252,
255, 256, 260, 262, 263, 264, 265, 266, 267, 269, 270, 271,
277, 279, 282, 284, 285, 288, 289, 290, 292, 296, 297, 301,
302, 307.
Feilding, Hon. Mrs. Everard 226, 227, 229, 238, 240, 242,
251, 252, 260, 264, 284, 289, 307.
Gates, Dr. 307
Houdini, Mr. . - . . 260, 289, 290, 296, 301
Salter, W. H. 272
Salter, Mrs. W. H. 212, 217, 220-222, 223, 227, 229, 230,
239, 240, 242-243, 245, 246, 247, 248, 250, 251, 255, 256,
259- 260, 262, 263, 271, 272, 274, 277, 285, 287.
Smith, W. Whately, 212, 226, 227, 228, 229, 230, 231, 232,
233, 234, 235, 236, 238, 239, 243, 245, 247, 262, 269.
Lxxxii-Lxxxiv.] Index to Vol XA'XII. 389
" Eva C", Sitters—
Wereide, Dr. 296
Woolley, Dr. V. J. 212, 217, 221, 222-223, 226. 227, 229,
230, 231, 232, 233, 234, 235, 236, 238, 239, 240, 241, 242,
243, 244, 245, 248, 249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255, 256,
257, 260, 263, 269, 270, 277, 279, 280, 281, 284, 288, 296.
Woolley, Mrs. 260
' Eva C."', Teleplastic phenomena in the mediiiinship of - 144, 145
Feilding, Hon. Everard. See above : Sitters.
Feilding, Mrs. .See above.
Freud's views. Reference to - - - - - - 379-384
Galgani, Gemma, Stigmata of - - - - 180-185,190,201
Gates, Dr., Present at sittings with Eva C. . . - . 307
Geley, Dr. Gustav, Investigation of Eva C.
210, 211, 223, 316-318, 326, 332
,, ,, Supranormal Physiolog^ and the Phenomena
of Ideoplasty, Reference to - - - 144
Goldsmith, Dr. J. N. 336-337
Goligher, Kathleen, Mediumship of - - - 144-145, 147-150
Photographs of the phenomena. Collection of - - - 150
Gurnej-, Edmund, Reference to hypnotic experiments and
theories 176, 178
HouDiNi, Mr., Present at sittings with Eva C. 260, 289, 290, 296, 301
Hypnotism, Phenomena of
—
Anaesthesia and Analgesia. See Dr. Ah-utz"s Problems of
Hypnotism.
Experiments, References to . . . . 164-165, 174, 178
Hyperaesthesia. See Dr. Alrutz's Problems of Hypnotism.
Janet. Dr. Pierre, Reference to his case of V. K. 202
Kraft -Ebing, Dr. R., Reference to his experiments with
lima S. - 201
Methods 152, 170, 175
Mystical and hypnotic phenomena, analogy- in kind - - 202
Passes, Efficacy of. See Dr. Ah'utz"s Problems of Hypnotism.
Specific Effluence, Question of - - - - - - 152
Experiments to solve ------ 153-172
Experimenter's conclusions and theories - - 173-177
Stigmatization and hypnotism - - 197 (footnote), 200-202
Theories and researches, References to
151-152, 165, 167, 168, 175-176, 178, 201
Thought -Transference ... - 171-172, 175, 176
390 Index to Vol. XXXII. [parts
Hypnotism, Problems of, by Dr. Sydney Alrutz - - - 151
Hyslop, Dr. J. H., Reference to his investigation of the Doris
Fischer Case 353 (footnote)
Hysterics, Cases of regurgitation - - - - 210 (footnote)
Idboplasty, Phenomena of - - - - - 144-145, 147
J. D.'s Sittings with Mrs. Leonard 67, 68-69
Jacks, Dr. L. P., Sitting with Mrs. Leonard - 133-143, 377
Janet, Dr. Pierre, Case of " V. K." cited 202
,, Leonie case ------ 350, 351
Jarraud, Mr., Assistance given in the experiments with Eva C. 215
Johansen, Anton, Reference to l^"^
KRAFT-EBiNCi, Dr. R. von. Hypnotic Experiments with Ihna S.,
Reference to
Lateau, Louise, Stigmata of - - 179-180, 193, 199, 200, 206
Leonard, Mrs., The Trance Phenomena of
—
Automatic Scripts 360-361
Communicators :
A. V. B. 1*
Colonel Beadon ^0-72
67, 68-69
Compared with examples of Multiple Personality 348-349, 351-378
Controls :
A Y B 6, 59, 63, 66-67
E.'a.'
69
Personal 361-367
Control's inability always to discriminate as to whether a
particular individxial is living or dead - - -
41-42
Some evidence of apparent communication from a
person still ahve 133-143
Descriptions of personal appearance of Communicators, strong
and weak points ----- 13-20
„ Problems concerning the som'ce of, and the
manner in which the knowledge presents
itself to the control 20-23
Eeda, Comparisons between, and Mrs. Thompson's control,
;[vfglly
8 (footnote), 13 (footnote)
Hyperaesthesia of hearing ^61, 372
Inhibitory effect of effort to give a " test " in response to
question
^^'^^
Imtials
13 (footnote)
Medium, Trustworthiness of - - - - 4-5 (footnote)
Lxxxii-Lxxxiv.] Imlex to Vol. XXXll. 391
Leonard, Mrs., The Trance Phenomena of
—
Medium, Normal knowledge concerning the sitters, question of 4-5
Names, Communicator's difficulty in giving - - - 26-27
New Sitters, General natm-e and limitations of first sittings,
and the kind of statements that are made
7-8, 11-13, 15-16, 23-25, 27, 43
Padding, Feda's recourse to and excuse for - - - 8-11
,, a point de repere for good evidence - - - 10, 27
Personal Appearance of Communicators - - - - 13-23
Discussion of problems and theories - - . - 20-23
„ Telepathy from the Sitter - - - 21
„ „ „ Dead - - - 22-23
,, Theory of quasi -materialisation - - 21-22
Report, A Further, on Sittings. By Mrs. W. H. Salter - 1
Introduction 2
Arrangements regarding the choice of sitters and obtain-
ing of records - - - - - - - 2-3
Arrangements for sittings. Procedure adopted - - 2
Classification of i-esults. Mode of - - - - - 4
Number of Sittings 3.4
Recorders 2-3
Records used - - - - - - 3 (and footnote)
Evidence obtained by New Sitters
Aimiversaries, References to . . . . 126-129
Circumstances and Physical Symptoms associated with
a Communicator s death 23-24, 30-34, 39-40, 99-109
Young Men 99-105
Women and Older Men 105-109
Communication, Some evidence of apparent, from a
Person still alive 42, 133-143
Communicator, The same, purporting to be present at
two sittings 130-132
Descriptions of Articles said to have belonged to, or
been associated with a Communicator - - 110-123
Descriptions of places associated with a Communicator
31-33, 40
Pirst Sittings, A successful sitting - - - - 28-43
,, ,, Tentative nature of - - - - 7
,, ,, Typical lines of structm'e. Statements
frequently made - - - - 27
Names and Initials ------- 24
Case in which an uncommon name was correctly
given -------- 25-26
Personal Appearance of Communicators - - 13, 74-98
392 Index to Vol. XXXll. [PARTS
Leonard, Mrs., The Trance Phenomena of
—
Evidence obtained by New Sitters
Descriptions, General character - - - 14, 15-16
Instances of personal characteristics 14-15
of Young Men ----- 74-85
of Older Men 85-91
of Women 91-96
of Persons still alive - - - 96-98
Various topics which recur frequently - - - - 27
Evidence obtained by Old Sitters
—
Communicators : Colonel Beadon - - . . 70-72
Controls : A. B. V. G, 59, 63, 66-67
E. A. 69
Knowledge of contemporary events - - - - 5, 45
Memory of names ------- 45
„ of places 47, 51-52
Malvern Wells, Highfield House 47, 51-52
Leonie Case, Reference to 350, 351
Liebault, Dr. A. A., Reference to his theories of hypnotism - 178
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Theory to account for veridical descriptions of
the Departed given by Controls, Reference to - - - 21-22
Long, Dr. Constance E., Collected Papers on the Psychology of
Phantasy ---------- 379
Lukardis, Stigmata of 185-187,195
Materializations. See the Report on Eva C.
Mediumistic Trance, The " Modus Operandi " in - - - 344
Mesmer, References to his theories and experiments - - 151, 178
Mind upon the Body, Influence of. See Stigmatization, The
Phenomena of.
" Minnehaha Control 350, 353 (footnote)
Missing people, Uselessness of trying to obtain from mediums
information about the fate of ------ 42
Mitchell, Dr. T. W., Sittings with Mrs. Leonard - - - 9, 10
Review of Dr. William Brown's Psychology
and Psychotherapy ; Dr. Constance
Long's Collected Papers on the Psychology
of Phantasy ; Mr. A. G. Tansley's The
New Psychology and its Relation to Life 379
" Modus Operandi,'" The, in So-called Mediumistic Trance, by
(Una) Lady Troubridge 344
Mollison, M. W., F.R.C.S. 338
Montague, Mrs., Sitting with Mrs. Leonard - - - - 28
" Moyenne," Control. .See Tomczyk, Stanislava, Mediumship of.
Lxxxii-Lxxxiv.] Index to Vol. XXXII. 393
Multiple Personality, Example of, compared with the abnormal
psychology of Mrs. Leonard and other trance mediiuns 348-360
" Nelly " Control 350
Newton, Miss I., Control exercised by, in Sittings with Eva C.
231, 237-238
!> Recorder at a Leonard sitting - - - . 3
OcHOROWicz, Dr.. Experiments in telekinesis ... - 144
3, Re^Dorts on Miss Tomczyk's mediumship - 350
Ohi-vall, Professor, Experiments in hypnotism - - - - 166
Palladino, Eusapia, Materializations in the iDresence of
209-210, 211, 328
Personal Appearance of the Departed as described by Con-
trols 20-23, 370-372, 374
Discussion of the theoretical problems raised - 20-23, 369-370
Question as to the Control's mode of perception - - 369-377
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism . - - 144-146,147-150
See also " Eva C."
Physikalische Phaenomene des Mediumismus, Studien zur Er-
forschung der Telekinetischen Vorgiinge, by Dr. A. von
Schrenck-Notzing, Review of - - - - - - 144
Piddington, J. G., Recorder at a Leonard Sitting ... 3
Pio of Foggia, Padre, Stigmata of - - 190-191, 192 (footnote)
Piper, Mrs., Trance phenomena of . - . . 146-147,345
Prince, Dr. Walter 352, 355, 356-357, 358
Problems of Hypnotism : An Experimental Investigation, by Dr.
Sydney Alrutz 151
Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle, by W. J. Crawford, D.Sc,
Review of - - - - - - . . . . 147
Psychology and Psychotherapy, by Dr. William Brown, Review of 379
Psychology, The New, and its Relation to Life, by A. G. Tansley,
Review of - - . - - - - . - . 379
Psychology of Phantasy, by Dr. Constance E. Long, Review of - 379
Psycho-plastic substance 212, 224, 240
Radclyffe-Hall, Miss M., and (Una) Lady Troubridge—
Sittings with Mrs. Leonard 4, 5, 6 (footnote), 44-68, 363, 365,
370-371, 376.
On a Series of. Reference to 3, 6, 10 (footnote), 14, 44,
45, 51 (and footnote). 53, 62. 363, 367.
On the Records made of - - 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 44
" Reese, Professor Bert," Reference to . - . . 147
Regurgitation, Cases of - - - 210 (footnote), 319, 341
394 Index to Vol. XXXII. [parts
Report, A Further, on Sittings with Mrs. Leonard ... 1
Report on a Series of Sittings with Eva C. See " Eva C."
Reviews
—
A. G. Tansley's The New Psychology and its Relation to Life 379
Dr. A. von Schrenck-Notzing's Physikalische Phaenomene des
Mediumismiis, Studien zur Erforschung der Telekinetischen
Vorgdnge - - - - - • - - - 144
Dr. Constance Long's Collected Papers on the Psychology of
Phantasy --------- 379
Dr. W. J. Crawford's The Psychic Structures at the Goligher
Circle 147
Dr. William Brown's Psychology and Psychotherapy - - 379
Professor Max Dessoir's Fow Jenseits der Seele - - 146
Richet, Professor Charles 210
Rothe, Anna, Reference to investigations with - - - - 146
S., Ilma, Case of -------- - 201
Salter, W. H., Present at Sittings with Eva C. - - - - 272
Salter, Mrs. W. H.—
A Further Report on Sittings tvith Mrs. Leonard - - - 1
Personal Apj^earance of the Dejiartecl as described by Con-
trols 20-23
Recorder at Sittings with Mrs. Leonard - . . . 3
The History of Marthe Beraud (Eva C), References to 211, 314, 329
See also the Society's Report on Sittings with Eva C.
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S., Reviews :
Dr. A. von Schrenck-Notzing's Physikalische Phaenomene des
Mediumismiis, Studien zur Erforschung der Telekinet-
ischen Vorgiinge - - - - - - - - 144
Professor Max Dessoir's Vom Jenseits der Seele - - - 146
Secondary Personalities and " Spirit Controls," On the similarities
between 349-359
Shaw, Christian - - - - - - - 210 (footnote)
Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. von. Investigations of the medium Eva C.
210-211, 223, 311-316, 319, 329, 331, 332, 333
„ ,, Physikalische Phaenomene des
Mediumismiis, hy. Review of - 144
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, An Examination of Book-tests, References
to - 7 (footnote), 45, 70, 367, 368-369
,, ,, On the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance
Phenomena, References to - 345-346
,, ,, Sittings with Mrs. Leonard
4 (and footnote 4-5), 83, 90, 109, 114
Sittings with Eva C, Report on 209
Lxxxii-Lxxxiv.] Index to Vol. XXXII. 395
Slade, Reference to investigations with - - - - - 146
Smith, W. Whately. See the Society's Report on Sittings with
Eva C.
Society for Psychical Research, Gift to, of photographs of the
GoHgher phenomena 150 (footnote)
On the work of - 146, 344-345
Stigmatization, Apparently hypnotic - - - - - - 192
Cases of 178, 179, 185, 188, 190-191, 192, 193, 196,
198, 201, 202, 203, 204, 205, 206.
„ Cases of. Characteristic features in - - 194-195
Modern 180-185, 188-189, 190-191, 192 (foot-
note).
Problems of 198-208
Stigmatization, The Phenomena of, by the Rev. Herbert Thm-ston,
S.J.
'
179
Talbot, Mrs., Book-test, Reference to - - - 7 (footnote)
Tansley, A. G., The New Psychology and its Relation to Life - 379
Telekinesis, Phenomena of . . . - . 144, 147-150
,, On the Theories concerning - - . - 144-146
Teleplastic phenomena, relation between, and telekinetic effects 144-146
Thompson, Mrs., Trance phenomena of
—
Comparisons between Nelly and Mrs. Leonard's Control Feda
8 (footnote), 13 (footnote)
„ ,, ,, Some Secondary Personalities - 350
Thurston, The Rev. Herbert, S.J., The Phenomena of Stigmatiza-
tion 179
Tomczyk, Stanislava, Mediumship of - - - 144-145,350-351
Trance-phenomena, References to Mrs. Piper's - - 8 (footnote)
References to Mrs. Thompson's 8 (footnote), 13 (footnote), 350
Troubridge, (Una) Lady, On Stereotyped evidence at sittings - 10
„ „ Sittings with Mrs. Leonard - - - 348
See also Radclyffe-Hall. Miss M.
,, ,, The " Modus Operandi " in so-called
Mediumistic Trance - - - 344
Vorn Jenseits der Seek, by Max Dessoir. Re\-iew of - - - 146
"Wak, Neuroses of the 381-382
Wereide, Dr., Present at a sitting with " Eva C." - - - 296
Wilks, Sir Samuel, M.D., On the doctrines of Stigmatization 179-180
WooUey, Dr. V. J. See the Society's Report on Sittings with
" Eva Cr
"W^oolley, Mrs., Present at Sittings with " Eva C." - - - 260
TRINTliD IN GREAT BRITAIN' BY ROtikKT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNU'ERSITV PRESS, GLASGOW
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical ^fggarch.
t
mm1
Part LXXXII. Vol. XXXII. '
JUy^ 1
CONTENTS
PAGE
I. A Further Report on Sittings with Mrs. Leonard. By Mrs.
W. H. Salter, 1
Supplement.
Reviews: I. De. A. v. Schrenck Notzijstg's " Physikalische
Phaenomene des Mediumismus." By F. 0. S. Schillee,
D.Sc.,. 144
n. Dr. Max Dessoir's "Vom Jenseits der Seele." By F. C. S.
Schiller, D.Sc, . . . 146
III. Dr. W. J. Crawford's "The Psychic Structures at the Goligher
Circle." By E. J. Dingwall, 147
TJie responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBBET MACLEHOSB & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVBRSITr PRESS, GLASGOW.
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FBANCIS EDWARDS, S3 High Street, Mahylebone, W. 1.
GLASGOW : MACLBHOSE, JACKSON & CO-, 73 West Geokqb Stkestt.
AMERICA: THE P. W. FAXON CO., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
All rigJits reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1921.
PRBS/DBNT.
W. M'POTJGALL, F.R.S., M.Sc.
VICB-PRESIDBNTS.
M.B.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfoub, M.P., O.M.,
F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Baltour.
Sib W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, 0.M.,P.R.S.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Bagoallt.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Sib George Beilby, F.R.S., LL.
Captain Ernest N. Bennett.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliyeb Lodge, F.R.S.,
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
D.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
Miss M. Radclyite-Hall.
W. H. Salter.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
W. Whately Smith.
Charles Lloyd Tuokey, M.D.
V. J. WOOLLBY, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1882-
Professor Balfour Stewart, r.E.S., 1885-
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1888-
The Eight Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., O.M., F.E.S., - 1893,
Professor William James, 1894
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.E.S., - ... 1896
Frederic W. H. Myers, 1900
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.E.S., 1901
Sir William Barrett, F.E.S., - - - - - - 1904.
Professor Charles Eichbt, - 1905.
The Eight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, ... - 1906-
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - 1908-
H. Arthur Smith, - 1910.
Andrew Lang, LL.D., - - 1911.
The Eight Eev. Bispop Boyd Carpenter, D.D., - - 1912.
Professor Henri Bbrgson, - - . - . - - 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, 1914.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., - - - 1915-
L. p. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., 1917-
The Eight Hon. Lord Eayleigh, O.M., F.E.S., - - - 1919.
W. McDougall, F.E.S., M.Sc, M.B., - - . - . 1920.
1884.
1887.
1892.
1895.
1899.
-1903.
1907.
1909.
1916.
1918.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.l.
The Eooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W.l, are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Pabts LXXVII.-LXXXI.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LXXVII.,—June, 1919. Price 4s. 6d. ($1.35) net. paoe
I. Presidential Address. By the Right Hon. Lord Rayl^igh,
O.M., F.R.S., . . . . . . . 275
II. Note on Mr. Piddington's Paper called "Fresh Light on the
'One-Horse Dawn' Experiment." By Sib Oliver Lodge,
F.R.S., . . . . . . . .291
III. A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note. By J. G. Piddington, . 296
IV. "The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." By W. Whately Smith, 306
V. Report- on Dr. Crawford's Medium. By Sib William Babrett,
F.R.S,, . . . . . . . .334
Part LXXVIIL—December, 1919. Price 7s. ($2.25) net.
On a Series of Sittings with Mrs. Osborne Leonard.
By Miss Radclyffe-Hall and (Una) Lady Troubbidgb.
Part LXXIX.—May, 1920. Price 4s. 6d. ($1.35) net.
I. In Memory of Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. By Sir Oliater
Lodge, F.R.S. . '
. . . . . .1
II. In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S. By Sir
William Babbett, F.R.S. . . . . .12
III. The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. By T. W.
Mitchell, M.D. ...... 30
VI. The Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. By C. G.
Jung, M.D., LL.D. . . . . . . 75
Supplement.
Review. Dr. Ernest .Jones's "Papers on Psycho-Analysis."
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D. . . . . - . 94
Note on "A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena
of Trance" {Proc. 3.P.E., Vol. VI.). By Sir Oliver
Lodge, F.R.S. . . . . . . .103
Part LXXX.—October, 1920. Price 5s. ($1.50) net.
I. Presidential Address. By William McDougall, F.R.S., M.Sc,
M.B., ........ 105
II. A Report on a Series of Cases of Apparent Thought Transference
without Conscious Agency. By Hubert Wales, . . 124
Supplement.
Revieios :
De. L. T. Teoland's "A. Technique for the Experimental
Study of Telepathy and Other Alleged Clairvoyant Pro-
cesses." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . . .218
Prof. Sigmund Freud's "Totem and Taboo. Resemblances
between the Psychic Lives of Savages and Neurotics." By
J. C. Flugel, . . . . . . ,,224
Lieut. E. H. Jones's "The Road to Endor." By W. H.
Salter, . . . . . . . 229
Proceedings of the Society.
—
Continued.
Paet LXXXI.—April 1921. Price 6s. ($1.85) net.
I. An Examination of Book-Tests obtained in sittings with Mrs.
Leonard. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
II. A Suggested New Method of Research.
Smith,
By W. Whately
241
401
Bound Copies of Volumes I.-XXX. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Prancis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The P. W.
Paxon Co., 83, Prancis Street, Boston, Mass.
Vol, I. (Parts I. -IV.) . . pp. 336 7s. 6d. 12.35
II. )» V.-VII.) . 340 7s. 6d. $2.35
in. )> VIII.-IX.) . 500 7s. 6d. 12. ?5
IV. )> X.-XI.) . 605 6s. $1.85
V. ( J) XII. -XIV.) . 606 7s. 6d. $2.35
„ > VI. )> XV. -XVII.) . 707 7s. 6d. $2.35
VII. >) XVIII. -XX. ) . 442 6s. $1.85
VIIL J
)
XXI.-XXIII.) . 647 7s. 6d. $2.35
IX. ) J
XXIV. -XXV.) . 407 6s. $1.85
X. xxvi'.) . 466 6s. $1.85
„ XL s> XXVII. -XXIX.) . 637 7s. 6d. $2.35
XIL ( J»
XXX.-XXXI.) . 391 6s. $1:85
„ XIII. ( J> XXXII. -XXXIII.) . 653 9s. $2.65
XIV. ( 5 >
XXXIV. -XXXV.) . 436 7s. 6d. $2.35
XV. J) XXXVI. -XL.) . 522 9s. $2.65
„ XVI. ( > )
XLI. ) . 650 9s. $2.65
,, XVII. JJ XUI.-XLV.) . 468 9s. 4d. $2.75
XVIII. JJ
XtVI.-XlIX.) . 548 10s. 6d. $3. 15
XIX. 5»
L.-LII.) . 508 9s. 9d. $3.00
XX. 3> LIII. ) . 444 9s. $2.65
XXL S) LIV.-LVI.) . . 684 9s. $2.65
„ XXII. J J
LVII. ) . 445 9s. 12.65
„ XXIIL if LVIII.-LIX.) . 602 10s. 6d. $3.15
„ XXIV. . > >
LX.-LXI.) . 758 10s. 6d. $3.15
,, XXV. LXII.-LXIV.) . 540 9s. $2.65
„ XXVL V 3) LXV.-LXVII.) . 544 9s. $2.65
„ XXVII. \ J >
LXVIII.-LXX.) . 562 9s. $2.65
„ XXVIIL \ )J LXXI.) . 657 10s. 6d. $3.15
„ XXIX. L )
)
LXXII.-LXXIV.) . 467 9s. 9d. $3.00
„ XXX. I ) i
LXXV.-LXXVIII.) . 612 10s. (3d. $3.15
In paper. \ )> LXXIX.) . 104 2s. 3d. $0.70
)>
,
LXXX. ) . 136 2s. 6d. 75 c.
j» LXXXI.) . 176 3s. 90 c.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. 6d. (50 c.)
each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
AMONG MeIIBEUS AND ASSOCIATES OSLY.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
