{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V33 1923","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v33_1923.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V33 1923","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXXIII
(CONTAINING PARTS LXXXV, LXXXVI, LXXXMI 6- LXXXVIII)
1923
The I'esponsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1923
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Maeylebone, W.
GLASGOW : MACLEHOSE, JACKSON & CO., 73 West George Street
AMERICA: THE F. W. FAXON CO., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
i-RlNTED IN GREAT BRIIAIN BV ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
CONTENTS.
PAET LXXXV.
June, 1922.
PAGE
Presidential Address. By T. W, Mitchell, M.D., . . . . 1
fPARTLXXXVI.
October, 1922,
Phantasms of the Living. An Examination and Analysis of Cases of
Telepathy between Living Persons printed in the " Journal " of the
Society since the publication of the book " Phantasms of the Living,"
by Gurney, Myers and Podmore, in 1886. By Mrs. Henry Sidg-
wick,
Supplement : Reviews :
I. Dr. T. W. Mitchell's " The Psychology of Medicine." By
J. C. Flugel 430
II. Prof. Sigm. Freud's Introductory Lectures on Psycho-
Analysis " (Authorised English Translation). By J. C.
^ Flugel 432
III. Prof. T. K. Oesterreich's " Die Besessenheit." By F. C. S.
Schiller, D.Sc, 434
IV. Dr. R. Tischner's Einfiihrung in den Okkultismus und
Spiritismus." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . . . 435
V. Dr. R. Tischner's " Ueber Telepathic und Hellsehen, ex-
perimentell-theoretische Untersuchungen." By F. C. S.
Schiller, D.Sc, 437
PART LXXXVII.
March, 1923.
I. Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War. By J. G. Piddington—
Introduction, . 439
War References in pre- War King Scripts, 461
Note on " Lusitania," '•
Fenchurch Street," and " Pathfinder," . 499
Comparison of pre-War King Scripts with the Scripts of other
Automatists, 504
212830
?,iS'^'<' \ Z
'..'->'*'"" Contents.
J-^ WbU,"';. .: :'
506
We Band of Brothers," 508
Behemoth and Leviathan, ........ 510
" The Crossed Swords," 513
" Lay not up for yourselves tret sures upon earth," . . . 514
" Had Zimri peace, who slew Ids master ? " . . . . 523
" Mercy and Truth," 528
The Pool of Bethesda, 534
" The Violet Crown," 639
" The Music of the Spheres," . . . . . . .550
" Vengeance is Mine," . 554
Some Scripts of July and August, 1914 577
Concluding Remarks, ......... 599
II. On the Elements of Chance in Book Tests, . . . . . 606
PART LXXXVIII.
July, 1923.
I. An Experimental Study of the Appreciation of Time by Somnam-
bules. By Sydney E. Hooper, M.A., 621
II. Concerning the Possibility of Deception in Sittings with Eva C.
By Dr. Feeihere von Sheenck-N'^'Tzing, .... 665
Supplement : Review :
Dr. T. W. Mitchell's " Medical Psychology and Psychical Research."
By F. C. S. ScHiLLEE, D.Sc., 673
APPENDIX TO PART LXXXVIII.
Officers and Council for 1923, 677
List of Members and Associates, ........ 678
Index to Vol. XXXIII., .719
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXXV.
June, 1922.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Deliveked at a Genebal Meeting op the Society
ON May 10th, 1922.
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
As I looked over the names of former Presidents of The
Society for Psychical Research, I could not help wondering
what considerations had induced the Council to ask me
to fill this important office, and I could not help fearing
that I possessed no qualifications which would justify my
acceptance of so great an honour. Along with these
thoughts there came to my mind the recollection of a
scene in one of Marion Crawford's novels which I had
read many years ago. In this scene Ram Lai, a Brahmin
by birth, a Buddhist by adopted religion and an adept
by profession, is asked if he thinks the heroine will recover
from the jungle fever which threatens her life. He
replies :
" No. She will die at sundown." " But how do
you know, since you are no prophet ?
" " Because I am
a doctor of medicine, M.D. of Edinburgh."
In the fact that I, also, am " a doctor of medicine,
M.D. of Edinburgh " I thought I had found one reason
why our Council's choice had fallen upon me, and I was
A
8 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
also bold enough to think that I had found some justifi-
cation for my temerity in accepting their decision. For
this is the first time in the history of the Society that its
Presidentship has been conferred on a practising member
of the medical profession. It is^ true that some of my
predecessors in this chair have held medical degrees, and
that at least one of them—Professor M"^Dougall—was for
some years actively engaged in the treatment of the war
neuroses ; but the lifework of these distinguished men
lay in other paths, and their appointment as Presidents
of this Society was based upon qualifications other than
those related to their knowledge of the science and art
of medicine.
But although the medical profession has not hitherto
been represented in the list of Presidents there have
always been some medical men among our Members and
Associates, and from the earliest days of the Society's
work there have been medical members on the Council.
It would, indeed, have been strange if in our own time
the profession of medicine had lost all interest in the
investigation of so-called occtdt phenomena, for from the
beginnings of history the exponents of the art of heahng
have, perhaps more than any other class of men, been in
closest contact with all that is dark and mysterious in
the life of humanity.
Before any distinction had arisen between priest and
physician the " medicine man " was healer, sorcerer and
seer, soothsayer, interpreter^ of dreams and caster-out of
devils. In North America, we are told, the medicine
men " are valued as dignitaries in the tribe, and the
greatest respect is paid to them by the whole community ;
not only for their skill in their materia medica, but more
expecially for their tact in magic and mysteries in which
they all deal to a very great extent." The savage
cozisiders ill-health to be due to some supernatural agency
—" to sorcery, to the violation of a taboo, to the wrath
of an offended ghost " ; and the medicine man is one
who, in virtue of his knowledge of the supernatural and
his possession of magical powers, is able to combat the
occult influences which cause disease.
LXXXV.] Presidential Address. 3
The medicine man of primitive peoples was thus an
observer of those occult happenings and a possessor of
those supernormal powers, belief in which, though disjoined
from the practice of medicine since medicine aspired to
be a science, has persisted through the ages in folk-lore
and tradition, until, in" the end, the validity of such
beliefs has become a subject of investigation by the
methods of science—that very discipline whose beginnings
became possible only when occult causes of natural pheno-
mena were denied and rejected.
If we try to tell how modern medicine has arisen from
the therapeutic practices of primitive peoples, a great gap
in our knowledge must be admitted. The scientific
medicine of to-day has a more or less uninterrupted
history which we can trace back to Greek medicine in
the fifth century B.C. ; but beyond that all is darkness.
The transition from the highest development of thought
in savage races to the beginnings of Greek culture forms
an almost blank page in the history of mental evolution ;
but it is probable that progress from the practice of the
Magic Art to the practice of scientific medicine has taken
place by way of religion, and the priest-physician of early
Egyptian and European civilizaMon may be regarded as
the connecting link between the medicine man as magician
and the physician of to-day.
When primitive man came to reahze that his power
over the forces of nature was limited and that magical
practices had not the infallible success which their earliest
votaries had claimed for them, his tendency was^ to ascribe
to supernatural beings those powers * against .^Vhich the
magic art waa of no avail ; and so, instead of com-
manding the elements to obey his behests, instead of
fighting the evil spirits in his own unaided strength, he
now, by prayer and sacrifice, endeavoured to propitiate the
gods and constrain them to assist him in repelling the
powers that were inimical to the well-being of his tribe.
Religious ritual thus came to take the place of magi, al
devices, and in the treatment of disease the role of the
medicine man became merged in that of the priest. But
not all the magicians submitted to the domination of the
4 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PART
gods and, although the pious or enlightened may have
inclined that way, the evilly disposed continued their
magical practices for their own ends so that, as the " black
art," magic persisted alongside of religion up to the dawn
of the scientific era.
Science, in medicine, is sometimes supposed to have
been the offspring of common-sense and to have developed
apart from, and in opposition to, the mysticism of magic
and the ritual of religion ; but it is not difficult to trace
the influence of religion in the art of medicine as it is
practised to-day, or to recognize its science as a lineal
descendant of the beliefs of the magicians, the alchemists,
and the astrologers of mediaeval times.
There are some grounds for believing that the birth of
scientific thought took place among the Greeks in the
seventh century B.C. ;
and, in so far as the history of
medicine is concerned, the thought tendencies of this age
are revealed in writings attributed to Hippocrates which
belong to a period two hundred years later. In his
treatise on The Sacred or Mysterious Disease, Hippocrates
discussed the relations between magic and medicine and
deprecated the seeking of occult causes and the use of
magical practices in the diagnosis and treatment of disease.
He recognized that disease is a process which has a natural
history, that its cause is to be fovmd in the natural world,
and that its course can be ascertained by careful observa-
tion of the phenomena which it presents.
The Hippocratic method of studying disease has always
been the ideal towards which medicine, as a science, has
aspired ; but for a long period in the history of the art
it was lost sight of and no real progress was made.
Throughout the Middle Ages, when the monasteries were
the sole custodians of learning, a mass of dogma and
superstition became superimposed upon the Hippocratic
teaching, and not until the Renaissance was there a return
to the fountain-head whence all medical knowledge had
come, and a consequent return to the beginnings of
scientific method.
Throughout the course of medical history the tendency
has ever been to produce some complete system, based
LXXXV.] Presidential Address. 5
on fundamental theoretical principles, under which all the
multifarious phenomena of disease can be subsumed.
Metaphysics, chemistry, mechanics, and mathematics, each
in turn, have been made the basis of such systems of
medicine ; and throughout the ages the constant need has
been that men should get back from their formal systems
and theoretical explanations to the study of nature—that
they should become emancipated from the trammels of
dogma as well as from the errors of superstition and bring
themselves to study the phenomena of disease, its causes,
its course and its cure, as these present themselves to
observation in the actual practice of the healing art.
This was the lesson of Hippocrates ; this was the lesson
of Sydenham ; this is the lesson of every great clinical
teacher of to-day.
In the practice of medicine this lesson has been surely,
if slowlj', learnt ; but many of those who are most
insistent on the apj)lication of scientific method to the
study of disease are still in bondage to old dogmas and
superstitions when they approach such problems as those
with which this Society has to deal. This is true, even
in regard to the study of disease, whenever the modes of
investigation or the means of treatment have any semblance
to the ancient practices of the magician or the priest.
The history of psychotherapeutics affords plentiful illus-
trations in siipport of this statement. The laboratory
W'Orkers in the mechcal sciences are perhaps more in
thrall to materialistic dogma than are those who are
engaged in the actual practice of medicine ; for these
latter, by keeping closer contact Avith human life and its
problems, are less prone to rest satisfied in the belief that
the findings of a purely mechanistic science are adequate
to the explanation of man's whole being, or that there
are no forces in the universe that cannot be fitted into
the scheme of things which such a science portxays.
Every great advance in knowledge, every successful
effort to get away from the paralysing influence of tradi-
tion, has been due to some outstanding personality, bold
enough to flout authority or vain enough to treat the
criticism of contemporaries with scorn or with indifference.
a2
6 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
Many examples from the history of science might be cited
in support of this statement ; but here it will suffice if
we call to mind the names of some of those men whose
work forms links in the chain which connects the practice-
of medicine with the investigations of Psychical Research.
In tracing the history of the relations between medicine
and occultism in Europe since the revival of learning, we
meet with the names of three men whose views have had
a noteworthy influence on the course of certain branches
of medical theory and practice :
—Paracelsus, Van Helmont
and Mesmer ;
and, in more recent times, we find some
of the mystical conceptions of these writers subjected to
the critical methods of modern science by Braid and
Liebeault, Pierre Janet and Sigmund Freud. All these
men were innovators, apostates from the orthodoxy of
their times, and they suffered the discredit and abuse
which are always incurred by those who break away from
the worship of the idols of the tribe.
At the beginning of the sixteenth century, when Para-
celsus—a man half mountebank and half genius—delivered
a course of lectures at the University of Basel, the energies
of the medical world were being spent in fierce disputes
concerning the relative merits of Arabian and Greek
medicine, and the injunction of Hippocrates to study
disease at first hand, by actual observation of its pheno-
mena, was largely forgotten. Paracelsus scorned all
scholastic disputation ; he said that his shoe -buckles
were more learned than either Avicenna or Galen ; he
re-affirmed the teaching of Hippocrates that the physician
must get back to the study of nature : and he declared
that the life of man cannot be divorced from that of the
universe as a whole. But he was so much imbued with
the importance of the influence of the greater world
without upon the lesser world within, that he gave up
the study of anatomy for the study of the stars.
He believed that all things in the universe act upon;
one another by means of some indwelling essence which
forms an invisible link between them, and that, conse-
quently, the life and mind of man may be influenced by
the course of the stars, as well as by his immediate
LXXXV.] Presidenfial Address. 7
surroundings and the thoughts and desires of his fellows.
This is the notion which lies at the back of all sympa-
thetic magic, of the sympathetic system of medicine, of
Animal Magnetism and of spiritistic phenomena.
The sympathetic or magnetic system implicit in the
teaching of Paracelsus was given more formal expression
in the writings of Van Helmont in the seventeenth century.
Van Helmont was one of those men whose work, though
discredited in their own time, proves later to have been
of great significance in the history of thought. Holding
on with one hand to the mysticism of the middle ages,,
reaching forward with the other to the new learning and
the new methods which had already borne fruit in the
works of Bacon, Harvey and Galileo, Van Helmont holds
a unique place in the evolution of modern medicine and
of those phases of thought which have led up to present-
day psychotherapeutics on the one hand and to Psychical
Research on the other.
Both Paracelsus and Van Helmont believed that all the
vital activities of the body are controlled by an indwelling
spirit or Archeus, and for them the sympathetic system of
healing was essentially a spiritual affair ; but when Mesmer,
more than a century later, sought to re-establish the
magnetic philosophy of his predecessors, he attributed
sympathetic healing to the action of a purely physical
force which he termed Animal Magnetism. This force, he
said, became effective in the treatment of disease through
the medium of some fluid emanation which passed from
the magnetist to the patient in the process of magnetizing.
However unwarranted Mesmer's insistence on the truth
of his theory may have been, his demonstration of the
actuality of the phenomena on which it was based, and
to explain which it was put forward, had the noteworthy
effect of compelling medical men to examine the part
played in the treatment of disease by those so-called
occult causes—charms, amulets, incantations and such
devices—whose use had been proscribed by the Father of
Medicine and denounced by his faithful followers through-
out the centuries.
The conclusions arrived at by the various commissions
8 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
appointed to investigate the claims of the Animal Magne-
tists afford striking proof of the power of preconceptions
and prejudice to banish reason from men's minds and to
render them incapable of making exact observations, or
of forming sound judgments concerning what they have
observed. In the matter, for instance, of the profound
insensibility to pain which the magnetists were sometimes
able to produce, sceptics and believers alike were obsessed
by the notion that there were but two possible explana-
tions of the phenomenon—it must have been due either
to fraud or to the magnetic fluid. The sceptics main-
tained that there was no siach fluid and that the declara-
tion of insensibility hy the patient must therefore have
been false and the absence of all signs of pain a fraudu-
lent pretence. The believers pointed to the facts which
showed the insensibility to be genuine and concluded that
it miist therefore have been due to the fluid. A similar
tendency may be found to-day in the attitude of many
people towards the problems of Psychical Research. The
phenomena of mediumistic trance, for example, are some-
times ascribed to fraud, sometimes to spirits ; and it
seems difficult for some people to realize that here, just
as in the case of Animal Magnetism, the phenomena may
be genuine although neither of the proposed explanations
be the true one.
In thus comparing the investigation of Animal Magne-
tism with that of mediumistic trance, we have something
more than a mere analogy or historical parallel ; there is
also historical continuity. For the peculiar characteristics
of mediumistic trance—for example, the apparently super-
normal acquisition of knowledge—were frequently noticed
in the trance which sometimes occurred in the practice
of Animal Magnetism. Indeed, the extravagance of the
claims put forward by the Magnetists, respecting the
supernormal powers exhibited by their entranced patients,
was one of the main reasons why men of science were so
eager to repudiate all interest or belief in the doctrines
or the practice of Animal Magnetism. And when, through
the work oi Braid, doubt of the reality of the so-called
magnetic trance could no longer honestly be maintained,
LXXXV.J Presidential Address. 9
those less well authenticated manifestations—the so-called
"higher phenomena" of Mesmerism—^to which the findings of
the hypnotists lent little or no support were taken over by the
new sect of Spiritualists which arose in Europe in the middle
of the nineteenth century, and they played no further part
in the development of the scientific aspects of psycho-
therapeutics and psychopathology.
Along this latter line erf investigation we can trace
direct continuity between the mystical doctrines of the
Middle Ages and the most modern conceptions in mental
science. There is no real break in the history of psycho-
therapeutics from Paracelsus to Mesmer, or from Mesmer
to Freud. The magnetic trance is identical with hypnotic
trance ;
hypnotic trance is indistinguishable from hysterical
trance ;
hysterical trance, in all its main features, is the
same as mediumistic trance. Medical psychology has its
roots in the study of trance states, and by employing its
conceptions in the investigation of mediumistic trance we
rescue the higher phenomena of Mesmerism from exploita-
tion in the service of reHgious beliefs, and bring them
under the scrutiny of science by making all examination
of them conform to the principles of scientific method.
The most characteristic feature of mediumistic trance
—
a feature which provides, as I believe, the most important
problem in the field of Psychical Research—is the
occasional display by the medium of knowledge which,
so far as we can see, must have been acquired in some
supernormal manner. Few people who have carefully
studied the records of our Society, and perhaps no one
who has had " good sittings " with such a medium as
Mrs. Piper or Mrs. Leonard, can remain long in doubt
concerning the occasional occurrence of happenings which,
whatever be their true explanation, must assuredly be
described as supernormal. I cannot speak of what are
known as the physical phenomena of spiritism, for of these
I have no experience and little knowledge ; but on the
purely psychological side it seems to me indubitable that
acquisition of knowledge, otherwise than through the
ordinary channels of sense, has been demonstrated over
and over again in mediumistic trance.
10 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PART
If SO much be admitted, three main problems present
themselves for consideration :
(1) Under what conditions
and in what ways is knowledge supemormally acquired ?
(2) In what circumstances and through Avhat mechanisms
is such knowledge displayed ? (3) What is the source from
which such knowledge comes 1
(1) We do not know what the conditions may be under
which the supernormal acquisition of knowledge takes
place ; that is to say, we do not know when, or in what
circumstances, such knowledge enters the mind which is
found to possess it. Two main hypotheses have been put
forward in explanation of the ways in which knowledge
may be acquired in a supernormal manner, namely,
telepathy and clairvoyance. The former term is applied
to the supernormal acquisition of knowledge from other
minds ; the latter to knowledge of things or events in
the physical world not acquired telepathically, but never-
theless acquired otherwise than through the ordinary
channels of sense.
The evidence in support of the telepathic hypothesis
is, taken as a whole, great in amount and of good quality ;
but it cannot be denied that purely experimental proof
of the occurrence of telepathy is regrettably scanty. In
view of the paramount importance of establishing irre-
futably the occurrence of telepathy as a fact of nature,
if fact of nature it be, it must be maintained that there
is no form of investigation open to all students of
Psychical Research which is more urgently needed, and
none which, if positive results are obtained, will better
repay the labour expended on it, than experiments on
thought transference. This need is, I am aware, not
felt by many who regard telepathy as already an estab-
lished truth ; but the widespread and persistent denial
of its occurreiKje by men of science would seem to indicate
that the experimental evidence is not yet sufficient, in
quantity or in quality, to overcome their doubts.
It seems to me that the exhibition of knowledge which
must have been acquired in some supernormal manner is
the distinctive characteristic of those mediumistic pheno-
mena which challenge the criticism of materialistic science.
IXXXV.] Presidential Address. 11
The question of the source of such knowledge is here
irrelevant. Whether or not human knowledge is ever
acquired otherwise than through some kind of physical
medium, such as the ordinary channels of sense, is the
real frontier line on which the battle between dogmatic
materialism and Psychical Research must be fought ; for
an irrefutable demonstration that the mind can obtain
knowledge of events in the outside world, or of thoughts
and feelings in other minds, in ways unmediated by
physical things, must shatter for ever the pretensions of
those who are contemptuous of Psychical Research, and
would open to their vision the infinite possibilities attend-
ing further inquiry concerning man's true nature and being.
And science could no longer be denied the right of
•overstepping the bounds beyond which physical laws may
appear to be inoperable, but would rather be constrained
to bring its principles and its methods to the investigation
of those phenomena whose occurrence it has hitherto so
persistently denied.
The evidence for clairvoyance is far less convincing than
that which may be adduced in support of telepathy, and
much of it belongs to the past. Good contemporary
•evidence is very scanty, although certain recent investi-
gations do point to the possibility that supernormal
faculty of this kind may sometimes be at work. But
since the far-reaching possibilities of telepathy have come
to be realized it has been more and more difficult to feel
sure that any instance of supernormal acquisition of
knowledge necessitates the hypothesis of clairvoyance ;
for of whatever nature the thing known may be, it is
almost impossible to ensure that knowledge of it is not
possessed by some other mind, and, if such knowledge
does exist in any other mind, whether incarnate or dis-
carnate, telepathy may be the means through which the
medium becomes aware of it.
(2) The display of supernormally acquired knowledge is
most commonly observed in states of mental dissociation
which lead to the production of automatic writing or
other forms of motor or sensory automatism, and pre-
eminently in the state known as mediumistic trance. We
12 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
know a good deal about the mechanisiiLS through which
supernormal knowledge is displayed, and it is here, perhaps,
that medical psychology has made its chief contribution
to Psychical Research. In the phenomena of mediumistie
trance the student of medicine finds that the mechanisms
through which supernormally acquired knowledge is most
commonly manifested are identical with those met with
in psychopathic states.
(3) To many people the all-absorbing question concerning
knowledge that has been supernormallj^ acquired centres
in the problem of the source from which such knowledge
comes. In clairvoyance, if it be true clairvoyance (and
if clairvoyance be true), the source is the external world,
and the mechanism of acquisition is a supernormal faculty
of the human organism ; but when knowledge is acquired
telepathically (if it ever is so acquired), the question often
arises whether the mind from which the knowledge is
obtained is incarnate or discarnate. Such a question can
occur only to those who are disposed to believe, or who
have been forced \>\ the evidence to believe, in the
existence of discarnate minds or spirits ;
and, in order tO'
discuss the spirit hypothesis at all, we must, for the
moment, be willing to assume that discarnate minds or
spirits do really exist.
If we further assume that in mediumistie trance com-
munications from discarnate minds may be received, we
must suppose that when the communicating spirit purports
to be that of someone well known to us during his life
in the bodj', it should be possible to obtain some proof
of the identity thus claimed. And, indeed, the search
for proofs of spirit identity has become the all-important
question for those who are engaged in the more advanced
investigations of Psychical Research.
Putting on one side, for the moment, this question of
the identity of the communicating spirit, we may call
to mind that this is not the only way in which the
spirit hypothesis enters into the phenomena of medium-
istie trance. The secondary personality—commonly called
the " control
"'
—which, during the trance, takes possession
of the medium's body, declares that it is itself a spirit
LXXXV.J Presidential Address. 13
which acts as an intermediary or interpreter between the
sitter and the communicator proper ; and many who accept
the spirit hypothesis, in explanation of the source of
mediumistio communications, maintain that tlie "
control
'
of mediumistic trance is no mere dissociated portion of
the medium's mind, but an alien spirit which, in the course
of mediumistic development, has attained the power of in-
vading and controlling the medium's body during the trance-
Finally, it may be recalled that in some rare cases it
is alleged that during the trance the ordinary '
control
'
of the medium is ousted or retires and is supplanted by
the communicating spirit. This is the phenomenon of
so-called Personal Control."
I have referred to these commonplaces of Psychical
Research for the purpose of drawing j'our attention to
some considerations respecting them which are suggested
by investigations carried out in the field of medical
psychology—a field which, up till now, has been all too
little cultivated, but which has already made important
contributions to general psychology and to Psychical
Research.
There are three main sources of the knowledge, derived
from medical psychology, which throws light on the
phenomena of mediumistic trance : hypnosis, hysterical
somnambulism, and multiple personality. The importance
of what can be learned from hypnotic trance, i.e. ordinary
deep hypnosis or hypnotic somnambulism, must not be
underestimated. It is in some respects the most important
of all, because it lends itseH so readily to experimental
investigation. Hypnotic somnambulism is an artificially
induced mental dissociation of the same kind as that
which occurs spontaneously in hysterical somnambulism,
in co-conscious multiple personality, and in mediumistic
trance. It is a form or level of consciousness which may
be made to alternate with the waking state and has this
peculiarity : that in the hypnotic state there is recollection,
actual or potential, of all the events of waking life, whilst
in the waking state there is no recollection of the hypnotic
phase.
There is a considerable amount of evidence in support
14 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
of the belief that hypnotic states are sometimes accom-
panied by a display of what appear to be supernormal
powers, such as thought transference and clairvoyance ;
but most of this evidence dates back to the days of the
Mesmerists and its value is not now easily appraised.
Yet something suggestive of supernormal powers may be
discerned, even in the work of modern hypnotists, many
of whom have perhaps been prevented from looking for
the higher phenomena " of Mesmerism by a priori dis-
belief in the possibility of their occurrence. Perhaps the
most striking examples of this are to be foiuid in those
experiments on " Appreciation of Time by Somnambules,"
carried ovit by Gurney, Delboeuf, Milne BramAvell and
myself, which have been recorded in our Proceedings.
Quite apart from such phenomena as clairvoyance, tele-
pathy, or post-hypnotic appreciation of time, it may be
lield that the effects of hj^notic suggestion on the vital
functions have, in themselves, something of a supernormal
character, inasmuch as we have no knowledge whatsoever
of how these effects are brought about.
Hysterical somnambulism has little to distinguish it
from hypnotic somnambulism except its spontaneous onset ;
and here also the beginnings of supernormal powers may
sometimes be discerned. Traces of what appears to be
telepathic or clairvoyant faculty are not infrequently met
with in grave hysteria ; but here, as in the study of
hypnotism, medical men seem reluctant to show much
interest in so unorthodox a symptom. In hysterical
somnambulism, as in hypnotic somnambulism, something
akin to supernormal faculty is commonly displayed. The
perfection of acting, in carrying out the somnambulic
dream, has something of a supernormal quality and it
may be compared with the heightened power of dramatic
impersonation shown by the hypnotized subject when it
is suggested to him that he is some well-known con-
temporary or historical character. In the increased
capacity for dramatic impersonation which is found in
these states of mental dissociation I am inclined to look
for the explanation of the mediumistic phenomenon of
" Personal Control."
txxxv.J PresidAntiail' Address. : - > v '
; ; / 15
Evidence pointing to the possession ; 'o? -.-Superiiormal
powers becomes more prominent wlieu hysterical c!dsi-;oci-
ation assumes the form of well-marked double or multiple
personahty. In almost all the recorded cases some confir-
mation of this statement may be found. It is true that
the evidence is hardly ever complete enough to be quite
convincing ; but the regular appearance of evidence of
some kind in these cases is highly suggestive, and
prompts us to believe that there may be some true and
necessary connection between mental dissociation and the
exhibition of supernormal powers.
To the medical psychologist it would seem that what
little can be said about the supernormal acquisition of
knowledge must be brought into relation with that mental
•dissociation Avhich is the most general cause or accompani-
ment of abnormal mental states. The mental chssociation
in hypnotic or hysterical somnambulism is of the same
nature, and due to the same causes, as that of the auto-
matic writer or the trance medium ; and whatever further
quahfications or gifts such automatists or mediums may
possess, they at least show mental dissociation and the
autonomous activity of dissociated or secondary mental
states. The physiological and psychological processes
involved in the production of automatic script are the
same in kind, whether the content of the writing reveals
merely the subliminal phantasies of the waiter, or conveys
precise information about matters of which the writer
has no normally acquired knowledge. So, also, the
controls of mediumistic trance display the same peculiar-
ities as do the secondary personalities of hypnotic or
hysterical dissociation.
In view of the fact that the more ordinary cases of
mental dissociation not infrequently show traces of super-
normal faculty, it may be suspected that mental dis-
sociation is an indispensable prerequisite for the exhibition
of supemormally acquired knowledge ; and it may also
be that some degree of mental dissociation is necessary
for any knowledge to be so acquired. This conception
is equally applicable whether we regard all display of
supernormal faculty as being merely a revelation of
16 .
•. : < ?
^'-^
V ->..i T:-W: MitclieU, M.D. [part
unguspocte4' .
potentialities in the human organism, or as
manifestations of some influence emanating from a trans-
cendental world.
It may be pointed out that some instinctive activities
of the lower animals, such as the homing instinct of
pigeons or the migration of birds, would seem to us
supernormal if they were exhibited by a human being ;:
but, although in the course of evolution such instincts in
man have become atrophied or overgrown, it is possible
that when a fault occurs in the structure of the human
mind these older mental strata may be vmcovered and
their functional activity released. Supernormal faculty
would then appear as a regression to phylogenetically
older functions, and telepathy or clairvoyance would be
but a human exploitation of means employed by our
lowly progenitors in the conduct of their everyday life.
On the other hand, if supernormal acquisition of know-
ledge is ever due, as some people think, to the direct or
indirect influence of discarnate minds, here also it may be
supposed that when a break occurs in the mental structure
which has proved most fitted for survival in this world,
such a break might offer the most likely condition for
getting into touch with another world, if another world
there be.
Such speculations are, however, far removed from the
questions which present themselves to the medical psy-
chologist who has not yet subscribed to the scientific
heresies of Psychical Research. He will doubt the actuality
of any supernormal acquisition of knowledge whatsoever^
and will endeavour to discover a natural explanation of
the existence in the medium's mind of any item of know-
ledge for which a supernormal origin may be claimed.
This is assuredly a legitimate ambition and is indeed the
only attitude which, to begin with, the psychologist can
adopt ; and although hitherto little success has been
achieved in this direction, the clinical psychologist of to-day
may feel that he is now better equipped for such an
inquiry than were his predecessors.
It seems to me that Psychical Research must accept the
pathological nature of mediumistic manifestations, or at
xxxxv.] Presidential Address. 17
least their complete parallelism with phenomena which are
admittedly psychopathic. Dreams, phantasies, illusions,
automatic writing, automatic speech, trance, secondary
personalities and self-styled spirit controls, are all familiar
to students of psychopathology ;
and, generally speaking,
there is found to be no need to call to our aid any
hypothesis of supernormal agencies or powers in order to
account for the occurrence of these states, or the nature
of the mental contents which they reveal. It is difficult
to say how far this statement might have to be modified
if a sharper look out were kept for those traces of
apparently supernormal phenomena which I believe to
be a not infrequent accompaniment of mental dissociation.
But the fact remains that, apart from the display of
more or less pronounced supernormal faculty, the mechan-
isms of mediumistic trance and the mechanisms of certain
psychopathic states are indistinguishable.
The most noteworthy addition in recent j^ears to the
means of investigation open to psychologists has been the
psycho-analytical technique devised by Professor Freud.
The profound change in our outlook on many problems
of psychology, which has resulted from the discoveries of
psycho-analysis, may lead us to hope that the application
of this method to some of the jDroblems of Psychical
Research may have equally far-reaching consequences ;
but, unless psycho-analysis can solve the question of the
supernormal acquisition of knowledge, the problems peculiar
to Psychical Research as distinguished from the problems
in psychopathology which the mechanism of mediumistic
communications may present, will remain as insistent, and
their solutions as doubtful, as they are at the present
time.
Taking psycho-analysis at its own vahiation as a method
of investigating the mind and as a therapeutic measure,
we may ask : What would be the probable results of
submitting a medium to a full psycho-analj'sis ? If this
were possible—there are good grounds for believing it
would not be possible—several consequences might be
anticipated. If the naturahstic explanation of all trance
phenomena be true, we should expect that the thorough
18 T. W. Mitchell, 31. D. [part
examination of a medium's mind which psycho-analysis
entails would reveal the natural origin of all knowledge
which may seem to have been supernormally acquired ;
and further, we should expect a re-association of the
dissociated mental states, a redintegration of the medium's
mind, which would preclude the possibility of his ever
again going into trance. The medium would be " cured
"
of his mediumship. If, however, as I am inclined to
believe, the knowledge sometimes displayed in mediumistic
trance is knowledge acquired in some truly supernormal
fashion, then, although the medium might be " cured,"
and thereby lose the power of going into trance or of
acquiring knowledge in a supernormal way, analysis would
fail to find any trace of the source from which such
knowledge had been derived, or of the ways in which it
had been obtained.
It is useless, however, to speculate on these matters
at the present time. These are problems for the future,,
and in the future they may receive the solutions which
are hidden from us now. I refer to them because they
form the latest phase of that conjunction of occultism and
medical science whose beginnings I have briefly sketched
in the earlier part of this address. Psychical ResearcK
has always welcomed every form of investigation that
promised to throw any light on human personality—on
its nature, its origin, its powers or its destinies,—and in
the future this Society will be as eager to encourage the
work of psycho-analysts in its bearings on Psychical
Research, as in the past it was ready to examine the
obscure phenomena described by the Mesmerists and
hypnotists of former times. No doubts or fears of the
conclusions towards which such investigation may lead
should deter us from this task ; nor should we be induced
to abandon our efforts because of results arrived at in
any field of inquiry other than that of Psychical Researck
itself.
There can be little doubt that the weight of authority
still inclines strongly against the inclusion of Psychical
Research among the legitimate avocations of men of
science. Professor JM'^Dougall, in his presidential address
LXXXV.] Presidential Address. 19
to us two years ago, felt the need to excuse or justify
the aloofness of so many men of science, and especially
of psychologists, from the work of our Society ; and he
ascribed this aloofness to the feeling of responsibility
towards the public which actuates the conduct of psy-
chologists in this matter. For they fear that if they
give an inch the public will take an ell or more, and
fortii-Rdth relapse into superstition and barbarism.
If I were to try to justify the aloofness of so many
members of the medical profession from the work of our
Society, I fear I could not ascribe their aloofness to any
such altruistic motives as Professor M*^Dougall claimed
for the psychologists. I once asked a colleague to assist
me in an interesting piece of Psychical Research and he^
refused. When asked the reason for his refusal he said :
" I have a wife and four children." The connection
between his refusal to assist me and his reason for refusal
is not so obscure as at first sight it may appear to be.
In the medical profession, even those who have the
inchnation to undertake the work of Psychical Research
and the leisure to pursue it, are discouraged from doing
so by the disapproval of the leaders in the world of
medicine, by the scorn of their fellow-practitioners, and
by the suspicion of the public on whom their livelihood
depends. Not only independence of character, but some
degree of economic independence is necessary, if one is
to break away from the herd and show interest in any-
thing reminiscent of the old associations between occultism
and medicine ; for not all of us have had the felicity of
being able to say with Descartes : "I was not, thank
Heaven, in a condition which compelled me to make
merchandise of science for the bettering of my fortune."
But over and above the social and economic considera-
tions which may prevent medical men from exhibiting too
great interest in Psychical Research, we must recognize
that they, like other men of science, are not in this
matter free in their own minds, but are weighed down
by the incubus of authority and tradition. We know how
the progress of medical science became arrested and
stagnated for centuries, because men attached too much
20 T. IF. Mitchell, M.D. [part
importance to the opinious of Hippocrates or Galen or
Celsus. They remembered the conclusions to which
Hippocrates had come, but they forgot to make use of
the method which he had enjoined—namely, to stvidy
the observed plienomena at first hand.
A similar danger threatens us to-day in our relation to
Psychical Research. We are apt to remember the con-
clusions of science while we forget its principles and its
methods. And yet the conclusions of science are often
ephemeral, whilst its principles and its methods are
permanent and perhaps inviolable. We cannot admit that
any phenomenon presented by nature is unworthy of, or
unsuited to, examination by the methods of science, and
we must not abandon our privilege or forgo our right to
inquire into the phenomena of Psychical Research merely
because the tradition of science declares these phenomena
to be invariably due to coincidence, illusion, or fraud.
We must rather adopt the advice which Socrates gave to
Phaedrus, when he said :
" We ought not to be content
-with the name of Hippocrates, but to examine and see
whether he has reason on his side . . . consider what right
reason, as well as Hippocrates, says about this or any
other nature."
Forty years ago this Society set out to examine all
the problems of Psychical Research " without prejudice
or prepossessions of any kind, and in the same spirit of
exact and imimpassioned inquiry which has enabled science
to solve so many problems, once not less obscure nor less
hotly debated." The same spirit must animate us still ;
and however much those who have spent long years in
the observation of psychical phenomena and in the critical
sifting of the evidence, may be entitled to convictions
which to the outside world appear due to prejudice or
prepossession, it would perhaps be Avell if for many years
to come each new recruit to our ranks were to begin
at the beginning, and approach the problems of Psychical
Research with a mind tmfettered by any preconceptions
imposed by mere tradition or authority. The more
sceptical and critical he may be, the more gladly shall we
welcome him ; but we would remind him, in the words
LXXXV.] Presidential Address. 21
of our revered first President, Henry Sidgmck, that " it
is not a scientific way of dealing with a mass of testimony
to explain what you can, and say that the rest is untrue.
It may be common sense ; but it is not science."
There are, however, many to whom the cold scientific
attitude towards problems which are for them suffused
with so much feeling must seem unbearable ;
and they
may be tempted to adopt Spiritualism as a religious faith
rather than patiently to await the harvest from the scanty
reapings and laborious winnowings by which alone truth
is gleaned in the field of Psychical Research. And,
indeed, an ardent longing for assurance that human
personality survives the death of the body, carries with
it an affective mental state which is ill-suited for the
examining of evidence or the forming of unbiassed judg-
ments. Those whose minds are so constituted, those to
whom it matters too much which way the balance of
evidence inclines, would perhaps do well to leave the
active pursuit of Psychical Research to others whose faith
is more robust or who, for other reasons, are more in-
different to the issue ; —to those whose faith is more
robust, since there are some who have a belief in immor-
tality so serene that they are able to take up an objective
attitude towards empirical evidence which favours or
opposes the view that man may, for a time at least,
survive the death of his body ; —to those who are more
indifferent to the issue, for there are many who by
nature or by nurture do feel thus, and because such
relative absence of feeling is the chief requirement in the
forming of purely objective judgments.
In Psychical Research, as in other fields of scientific
inquiry, we must endeavour so to work that we do not
care what the goal may be towards which our quest may
lead us ; but this indifference is hardly to be won if
love of life or fear of death hold too great sway within
our minds. And even the most " tough minded " of us
aU can scarce withhold the instinctive response of all
things living to whatsoever threatens their destruction ;
nor can we always meet with tranquil minds the first
rude shatterings of life and love that fate, through death,
22 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part LXXXV.l
may bring. The human heart rebels against the transient
-
ness of life, when love beats helpless wings upon love's
prison-house, the tomb ; and so, through all his days, man
shall not fail to form fair visions of a life hereafter nor
shall he cease to ponder, while life lasts, the dark abiding
mystery of death.
" He that hath found some fledg'd bird's nest may know,
At first sight, if the bird be flown ;
But what fair well or grove he sings in now.
That is to him unknown.
And yet, as Angels in some brighter dreams
Call to the soul, when man doth sleep :
So some strange thoughts transcend our wonted themes,
And into glory peep."
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXXVI.
October, 1922.
PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING.
An Examination and Analysis of Cases of Telepathy
BETWEEN Living Persons printed in the "Journal"
OF THE Society for Psychical Research since
THE Publication of the Book " Phantasms of
THE Living," by Gurney, Myers, and Podmore,
IN 1886.1
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
Introduction.
Those who have read what we may call for short Gurney's
book—and aU who are interested in psychical research
should read it—will reahse that under the title " Phan-
tasms of the Living " are included aU experiences where
there is reason to suppose that the mind of one living
person has aiiected the mind of another otherwise than
through the recognised channels of sense. The experiences
may be spontaneous, or the result of experiment. They
range from apparitions to purely ideational and emotional
impressions and motor impulses, and they may occur
1 The period covered is from June 1886 to the end of 1920, included
in Volumes III. to XIX. of the Journal. Part of this paper was read
at a meeting of the Society on June 1, 1920.
24 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
in waking life, or, as dreams, in sleep. The person
receiving the impression is called the percipient, and
the person from whom it is presumed to come, the
agent. It is assumed that an experience occurring to
the percipient as much as twelve hours after the death
of the agent may be a phantasm of the living, as we
have to allow both for the possibility of delay in the
emergence of the telepathic impression received, and
of bodily life not absolutely ceasing at the apparent
moment of death. The above definitions and explanations
are hardly necessary for the majority of readers, but it '
is as well to make clear what this paper is to be
about. ^
Since Gurney's book was published thirty-six years
have elapsed, and many fresh cases have naturally been
received by the Society. These have for the most
part been printed in the Journal, but some of them
have, without first appearing in the Journal, been
published either in various papers in Proceedings, or
in Podmore's book Apparitions and Thought-transference,
published in 1894, or in Myers' book Human Personality
and its Survival of Bodily Death, published posthumously
in 1903. Also some fifty-four cases printed in the Journal
have since been published in Proceedings or in one of
these books, and being, therefore, already before the
public, are excluded from this paper.^ Those cases printed,
by the Society, in the Journal only are not readily
accessible to the general public, as the Joimial is printed
for private circulation. Moreover, what is more important,
they are only to a very slight extent classified, and
cases unclassified and scattered through many volumes
are not in a convenient form for study.
1 There are, of course, cases printed in the Journal which cannot
by any stretch be regarded as phantasms of the Hving—cases such
as premonitions, apparent communications from the dead, some accounts
of haunted houses, and others. But tliese are outside the present
discussion. Taken all together, they are far less numerous than the
eases which may be regarded as phantasms of the living.
2 The following is a list of these fifty-four cases with their place of
publication. " Podmore " stands for his Apparitions and Thought-
Transference, H.P. stands for Myers' Hmvan Personality and its Survival
LXXXVI.] Introduction 25
I have therefore for some time felt, and was glad to
hear the same view expressed by Mr. G. E. Wright in
a paper read to the Society in 1919, and printed in
the Journal for June, 1920, that the time has come
when these cases should be collected together, analysed
and discussed, and at any rate a good many of them
published in the Proceedings. The present paper is
an attempt to do this. But I am making further restric-
tions. I propose to omit all cases in which the interval
between experience and record exceeds five years. This
time limit is arbitrary, and, as would be the case with
any other limit chosen, does not discriminate infallibly
between the evidential value of the cases it includes
and excludes. It is probably partly for this reason
that no time limit was fixed in the books and articles
I have referred to above. But early record of cases is
of Bodily Death. When a case has been published in two placeis, this
is not always stated.
Number of
Case.
?±322
L. 324
i
^325
L. 829
M. CI. 670
G. 184
L. 1071
P. CI. 129
L. 837
L. 841
L. 8.50
L. 860
L. 863
L. 864
L. 874
L. 87.5
L. 876
L. 877
L. 884
L. 892
L. 938
L. 939
Place in
Journal.
III. 252
III. 254
III. 267
III. 268
III. 295
III. 307
IV. 88
IV. 91
IV. 140
IV. 191
IV. 223
IV. 239
IV. 271
IV. 321
IV. 344
V. 21
V. 35
V. 61
V. 63
V. 68
V. 69
V. 134
V. 147
V. 252
V. 253
Where
Published.
Podmore.
H.P.
Podmore.
Proc. VII.
Proc. XI.
Podmore.
Proc. XI.
Podmore.
Proc. VIII.
Proc. X.
Podmore.
Proc. X.
Podmore.
H.P.
Podmore.
H.P.
Proc. & H.P.
Podmore.
H.P.
Podmore.
H.P.
Number ot
Ca.se.
L. 940
M. 41
L. 945
L. 944
L. 946
L. 955
M. 56
L. 958
G. 242
L. 961
L. 969
G. 245
L. 976
M.CI. 90
I.. 982
M. CI. 92
G. 248
G. 249
L. 995
G. 250
L. 998
L. 1000
L. 1075
L. 1095
L. 1099
L. 1100
M. CI. 103
Place in
Journal.
V. 258
V. 299
V. 318
V. 322
VI. 4
VI. 104
VI. 112
VI. 129
VI. 146
VI. 163
VI. 185
VI. 230
VI. 284
VI. 294
VIT. 25
VII. 103
VII. 173
VII. 175
VII. 176
VII. 188
VII. 234
VII. 238
VII. 243
VIT. 243
VII. 323
VIII. 140
VIII. 192
VIII. 193
XII. 17
Where
Published.
Podmore &
Proc. XIV.
Proc. IX.
H.P.
Podmore.
Proc. XIV.
H.P.
Podmore.
Proc. XI.
H.P.
Proc. XL
H.P.
Proc. XIV.
H.P.
Proc. XIV.
Proc. XIV.
& H.P.
H.P.
H.P.
Proc. XIV.
Proc. XXI.
26 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
now more important than it was. We have arrived
at a stage when, if our knowledge of telepathy is to
grow, we want not only evidence of the broad fact that
there was a coincidence between the phantasm and
some external event suggesting a causal connection between
them, but light on the process of telepathy and the
conditions under which evidence of it can be obtained.
For this details become more and more important, and
it will, I think, be readily admitted that five years is
a long time through which to trust to memory for details.
I am glad to say that the interval between experience
and record matter of fact, usually much less
than five years in the cases before us. Indeed, for
a good many years past cases not recorded till five years
after their occurrence have not been printed.
I am further ignoring a few cases where the evidence
seems to me to be in some way or other too defective
to be worth discussing. I do not mean to imply that
the evidence for telepathy in all the cases retained is
strong, or that they are all well recorded or corroborated.
This is not so, and it may well be that some readers
will think some of the cases retained might with advantage
have been omitted. It is a question of degree, and it
is only a few of the weakest that I have ignored. We
might perhaps put it that some of the cases retained
do not add to the evidence for telepathy, but granting
telepathy it seems likely that it operated. {
After eliminating cases for these three reasons—namely
(a) that they have been already published in the Pro-
ceedings or in the books named above ; (6) that they
were not recorded sufficiently near the time of occurrence ;
(c) that the evidence is too weak—we are left with about
200, which I shall call the present collection, or our
collection. It consists of some 30 experimental or semi-
experimental cases, and 170 spontaneous experiences, in
about one third of which the percipient was admittedly
dreaming.
The exclusion from our collection of the 54 cases
already published somewhat reduces its value, for these
cases were of course selected as for some reason important
LXXXVI.] Introduction. 27
or interesting. It also somewhat alters the proportion
in which different kinds of experiences are represented.
Especially is this so with dreams, of which there are
comparatively few among the published cases. In experi-
mental cases the proportion is affected the other way,
the number previously published being proportionately
large and including a good many of the best.^
In arranging our collection I begin, as Gurney did
in Phantasms of the Living, with experimental and semi-
experimental cases, to which Chapter I. is devoted, and
proceed in Chapter II. to cases where the experiences
of the percipients consist of ideas or mental pictures,
or emotions or motor effects—cases that is where the
phantasms are not externalised as waking sensory halluci-
nations nor as dreams with the same quaUties. From
this point on, however, my classification differs from
Gurney's. He has treated separately dreams, " border-
land " cases (that is experiences occurring when the
percipient was in bed but believed himself to be awake),
and hallucinations when the percipient was up and about ;
while I have treated these three classes together.
This departure from precedent needs some explanation
and justification. In the first place, treating dreams and
hallucinations together assumes that they can be regarded
as in important respects experiences of the same kind,
and in particular that, e.g., the figures seen in our dreams,
the characters that act in them and seem external to
ourselves, are of the same nature as apparitions seen
by waking percipients. That this is so is shown and
strongly insisted on in Gurney's book, and, as he points
out, cases are not infrequent where a dream figure is
continued for an appreciable time after waking as a
waking hallucination. It was not mainly the difference
in their psychical nature that led Gurney to treat dreams
and waking hallucinations separately, but the difference
in their evidential value.
Though incidentally it did much else, his book chiefly
^ The great majority of cases printed in the Journal, and afterwards
pubhshed in Proceedings or in the boolis mentioned, were in early
volumes of the Journal. There is only one after Vol. VIII.
28 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part S
aimed at producing a cumulative, quasi-statistical proof
of telepathy by showing that a rare psychical event in
the percipient's life, such as an apparition of the agent,
coincided with a marked crisis in the latter's life much
more often than any theory of probability warranted us
in expecting. Now a dream is seldom a rare psychical
event. Some dreams are more impressive than others, but,
on the whole, dreaming is such a frequent experience, and
the range of the possible contents of dreams so wide,
j
that they seldom surprise us as a vivid sensory hallucina-
tion does. The probability of something in a dream
corresponding with a crisis in the agent's life by pure
chance is much greater than the probability that a
waking hallucination will do so. And we have to consider
in addition the ease with which dreams elude memory
and the consequent danger of their being altered in
recollection (if not noted at the time) to correspond with
the subsequently learnt facts of the agent's experience.
But we may now, for the sake of argument at least,
assume that Gurney's book has accomplished its object,
and that telepathy is proved, and starting from that
point may devote ourselves primarily to seeking for
light on the occasions and mode of its operation.^ From
this point of view dreams have an advantage over most
sensory hallucinations, for they have a chance of coinciding
in a larger number of items with the agent's contemporary
experience. In a realistic hallucination, the seeing for
instance of an apparition of a dying agent standing in
the room, the idea of the agent's personality is as a
rule all that is conveyed to the percipient ; the accessories,
clothes, etc., seldom affording any evidence of being de-
rived otherwise than from the percipient's own mind.
If the agent and percipient have been in telepathic
touch subliminally more completely than apj)ears, it is
^ In speaking of telepathy as proved, I do not of course mean that
it is yet accepted by the scientific world. Much more accumulation
of well evidenced instances will be required before this can be claimed.
But we want more than the mere piling up of facts. Our facts will
be the more readily accepted, the more we can compare them, and,
provisionally assuming telepathy, show when and how it occurs.
LXXXVI.] Introduction. 29
subliniinally only.^ This meagreness in the content of
sensory haUucinations is equally characteristic of veridical
and non-veridical ones. But with dreams it is very
different. In dreams, instead of being merely a spectator,
the percipient is usually an actor, his own part in what
seems to occur being part of the illusory impression. The
dream represents dramatically an incident or little story
in which the percipient is concerned. The details of
the little drama may be in part veridical, and may thus
amplify the communication from the agent. They may,
on the other hand, even in veridical dreams {e.g. L. 1147,
p. 196, and L. 1179, p. 195), be pure embroidery by the
dream consciousness on the veridical basis, confusing
the latter. The tendency to embroidery in dreams may
be compared with the same tendency in automatic script
and in trance speech, making discrimination between
the true and the false difficult. Still, on the whole, we
do in veridical dreams generally get more than the
mere fact that the agent has appeared or his voice has
been heard.
The principle of classification adopted will appear
clearly as we proceed, and I need not describe it here
more than I have already done. I ought to say, how-
ever, that I have not adhered to it quite strictly. In
a few instances it has seemed better to take a case out
of its proper order, so as to place it with another that
resembles it in a way that seems interesting or instructive.
I have not quoted all the cases in full. Some I have
so quoted. Others I have abbreviated, either by giving
only the percipient's account without quoting corroborative
statements or other evidence given in the Journal, or
There are some hallucinations that reveal more. The rather rare
type among spontaneous cases, which I have called visions—pictorial
representations of the agent or others not forming part of the percipient's
normal surroundings—may convey more information. (For an example
see L. 1207, p. 243 below.) So of course may crystal visions. There
are also some apparitions that seem to speak, and thus to convey
information. In a very odd case, apparently well evidenced, in the
Journal, Vol. V., p. 147 (not reproduced here, because it has been
published in Human Personality, Vol. I., pp. 675-8), a conversation with
the apparition is reported, quite as might happen in a dream.
30 Mrs. Heyiry Sidgivick. [part
otherwise. A good many I have merely described. The
reason for this is chiefly to save space ; this paper being,
I fear, almost intolerably long as it is.
The numbers attached to cases (such as M. CI. 97
or L. 1215 ^) are those they bear in the Journal, and
which are also attached to the original documents kept
at the Society's rooms. At the end of this paper I give
a classified list of cases quoted or described in it, which
will serve as a table of contents.
The original meaning of the letters L, G, M, etc. need not be con-
sidered. In this paper they are merely part of the index number.
Lxxxvi.] Exferimental and Semi-Experimental Cases 31
CHAPTER I.
EXPEEIMENTAL AND SeMI-EXPERIMENTAL CaSES.
§ 1 Experimental Cases.
By experimental cases I mean those in which the agent, or a
group of agents, is deliberately trying to impress tele-
pathically a particular percipient, and that percipient
deliberately trying to receive an impression, as a rule
from that particular agent or group of agents. In most
of the cases of this sort recorded in the Journal the
agent was endeavouring to impress the percipient with
the idea of some object or action. These I do not
propose to reprint here, as they would take considerable
space and are in some sense a residuum, since the best
cases of the same kind have been published in Proceedings
or in the books mentioned above. Nevertheless, they
have their value and ought not to be lost sight of, and
it may therefore be useful to give the following list :
In the Journal, Vol. III., pp. 179-191, is a collection of
experiments, consisting of series by different investigators,
with agent and percipient in the same room. One of
the contributors to this collection—Mrs. Shield, a careful
and painstaking investigator much interested in our
work—later sent some further series which are printed
in the Journal, Vol. V., p. 189 and p. 296. Some similar
series of experiments by Mr. Edmund Selous are printed in
Vol. v., p. 184. Experiments of the same kind by
Miss Campbell and Miss Despard will be found in Vol. VI.,
p. 4. The experiments at a distance by the same ladies
have been published. Some similar experiments with
agent and percipient in the same room, contributed by
Professor Chattock, are printed in Vol. VIII., p. 302.
From Dr. A. S. Wiltse—who, it will be recalled, has
32 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
contributed several important items of different kinds
to our published records—there are three sets of similar
experiments with agent and percipient in the same room,
interspersed with a few in which facts at a distance
seem to have been supernormally perceived. The records
of these experiments are printed in the Journal, Vol. VII.,
pp. 197-206 and 240-242. There is also a short series
furnished by Miss B. H. Grieve (see below, pp. 48, etc.)
printed in the Journal, Vol. X., pp. 260-263. In this
series some experiments were carried out when agent
and percipient were apart, and some when they were
together ; and the series includes one veridical spon-
taneous impression derived by one of the ladies from
(apparently) one of the two she had experimented with.
Experiments with agent and percipient in the same
room having an obvious drawback in the difficulty of
absolutely excluding the possibility of unconscious indica-
tions on the part of the agent, it is highly desirable
that in serious experiments agent and percipient should,
if possible, be in different rooms or separated by still
greater distances ; and the experiments more recently
published in Proceedings have been so arranged. There
were earlier also valuable experiments at a distance
printed in the Journal, but these have all, I think, been
subsequently published except one series by M. Glardon
in the Journal, Vol. VI., p. 98. This is referred to in
Human Personality, but only a later and more strikingly
successful series by the same agent and jDercipient {Journal,
Vol. VI., p. 325) is published there in full.
There are two experiments in thought-transference
witli agent and percipient in the same room, which I
will quote because the method was different—the percipient
looking in a crystal with a view to seeing what the
agent was trying to make her see. The percipient in
the first case (M. CI. 97, Journal, Vol. IX., p. 78), Miss
Angus (pseudonym), is a remarkably successful crystal
gazer, or " scryer," and some of her crystal vision ex-
periences, l)ut not, I think, this particular one, have been
described in Huvian Personality, Andrew Lang's Making
of Religion, and other books.
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 33
(M. CI. 97.)
IVDss Aiigus writes (January 4th, 1898) :
I had another successful scry on Tuesday evenmg,
21st December, 1897, when Mr. Mac asked me to
look in the ball. He had never seen crystal gazing,
so I told him to fix his mind on some scene, which I
would endeavour to describe. Almost at once I saw
a large room with a pohshed tloor reflected, the hghts
being very bright and all round ; but the room was
empty, which I thought very uninteresting ! Mr. Mac
said how strange that was, as he had not, so far, been
able to fix his mind on any particular face in the ballroom.
However, he asked me to look agam, and this time I
saw a smaller room, very comfortably furnished, and
at a small table under a bright light with a glass globe
(no shade on the globe) sat a young girl, in a high-necked
white blouse, apparently writing or readmg. I could
not see her face distinctly, but she was pale, with her
hair drawn softly off her forehead (no fringe), and seemed
to have rather small features.
Mr. Mac said my description quite talUed with
the lady he was thinking of, a Miss , whom he had
met for the first time at a ball a few nights before, but
he had meant me to see her dressed as he met her m
the balk'oom.
We consulted our watches, and fomid that it was
between 10.15 and 10.30 when we were scrying, and
Mr. Mac said he would try to find out what IVIiss
was doing at that hour. Fortmiately I had not long
to wait for his report, as he met her the next evening,
and told her of my experiment. She was very much
mterested, I believe, and said it was all qiiite true !
She had been wearmg a white blouse, and, as far as
she remembers, she was still readmg at 10.30 under a
bright incandescent fight, with a glass globe on it.
Mr. Mac writes (December 30th, 1897) :
I was at Miss Angus's house on Tuesday, December
21st, 1897. Miss Angus said that if I thought of some-
34 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
body she would look in her crystal ball and find out the
j
personal ajjpearance of the person of whom I was thmking,
and what he or she was domg at that moment (10.25
p.m.). She told me to thhik of the surroundings and
the place in which I had last seen the person of whom
I was thinking. I thought of somebody that she did
not Imow—Miss , whom I had met at a dance on
December 20th. I thought of the ballroom where 1 \
had been introduced to her, but at first I could not
centre my mind on her face. Then Miss A. said that
she saw a big room with a pohshed floor, and which
was brilliantly ht up, but that at present she could not
make out any people there. Then I succeeded in fixing
my mind on Miss 's face, when Miss A. said that
she saw a girl with fair wavy hair either writing a letter
or reading, but probably the former, under a lamj) with
a glass globe, and that she had a high-necked white
blouse on. All this took about five mmutes.
I saw Miss agam at a dance on December 22nd— j
the next night. I told her what had happened, and she
said that, as far as she remembered, at 10.25 the night
before she had been either writing a letter or reading, I
but probably writmg, under an mcandescent gas-light
with a glass globe, and that she had been wearing a
high-necked white blouse.
I had only known Miss Angus for a very short time, so
she did not know what friends I had iir . I do \
not think that Miss Angus Imows Miss . There were
three other people in the room all the time, one of whom
was playing the piano. This is exactly what happened,
as far as I can remember.
Although agent and percipient were apparently close
together in this case, it is difficult to imagine how un-
conscious indications can have suggested the vision to
the percipient, and it will be observed that in the second
vision, a third mind, that of the lady of the vision,
seems to have been more or less involved.
This perhaps happened also in the case to be next .
quoted (from the Journal, Vol. VIII., p. 71). The agent
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 35
in the case was again present with the percipient, and
was trying to make her see a particular person in a
glass of water.i The result seems to have been as in
the last case, some perception of that person's dress
and surroundings bej^ond the knowledge of the percipient,
though perhaps not beyond her possible guessing.
The percipient, Miss N. Gemet, a Russian lady and Associate
of the Society, writes :
St. Petersburg, Basseynaya, 33, Lodg. 4,
October mh/25th, 1896.
Friday last, the 4th/ 16th of October, we had our first
sitting this year ; —we, that is. Miss Marie Klado, an
elderly lady, author of good stories for children, and a
still better medium ; Miss S. T., an Enghsh girl (bom
here), my friend,—she is rather gifted psychically and
wants to improve still more, but does not quite beheve
in spiritual powers ;
myself.
At 8 in the evening we began. Miss Klado and Miss T.
sat down near me, but not touching me. They were
on a sofa in a corner of my study, and I was seated
on a chair (or rather a low oriental seat) m front of
them at a small table of black wood, uncovered, with
a glass of water before me and two high candles Hghted,
giving the necessary brilliant spot to gaze at in the
glass. Miss Klado never hypnotised me or even tried
to, and I remain in my clairvoyant experience always
perfectly awake and in my natural state, neither tired
nor troubled anj'how. But her presence always helps
me to see quicker and better, and I feel my own power
" electrise " through hers -without any contact with her.
That evening her only role was then that of a " sym-
pathetic current." She sat and concentrated her thoughts
as far as possible on the same subject as me.
Miss T. was nearer to me and, looking at me and at
the glass, tried to suggest to me to see what she wanted,
—that is, a certain person I never had seen or even
^ Vision in a glass of water or other reflecting surface is, of course,
of the same character as Crystal-vision.
Mrs. Henry Sidgiviclc. [part
heard of (she only told me it was a lady, but not who,
and even had she done so, the name was unknown to
me), whose surroundings and even the town or country
she lived m were a mystery to me, as well as to Miss
Klado. I had no clue whatever to what I could possibly
see about this lady.
Now Miss T. did not know herself much about the
lady ; she has never been to her house and has heard
httle about her way of hving, so that she could suggest
to me the image of the person, but not of her pastime,
dress, or rooms.
We looked what time it was (a httle over eight), and
proceeded to pry in the unlaioOTi lady's doings. As
before, I always need some time to see anythmg when
I have not practised for some months. After ten or
twelve minutes gradually the usual very small picture
was formed in the brilliant circle thrown by the hghts
in the glass (standing on a smooth white paper laid on
the table). I seldom see any colour but black, white,
and spots of light when there is a lamp, candles, or
something of the sort (faces, when they are larger,
—
only the head seen, for instance—sometimes have their
natural flesh colouring).
First I saw a slender woman with very fair hair and
ill a costume which puzzled me as well as her doings.
I described a rnesure all that went on in the glass, Miss T.
saying nothing as yet. The figure began to move and
I could then make out that she was dressing ; she walked
down the room, lifted her arms, took something from a
board, then stayed in front of what was probably a
mirror (I saw only the dark side), and dressed her hair
on the forehead. Then she washed her hands, and the
moving to and from me of her arms and of the essuie-main
she held was perfectly distinct. She had a tea-gown
of light colour with long (Greek) sleeves.
The scene changed all at once. I saw her in another
room, better lighted, and a gentleman stood beside her,
to whom she seemed to talk in an animated way. The
gentleman was inclined to be stout, with a light beard
and the hair a shade darker. When I came to this,
Lxxxvi.] Experimental mid Seyni-Experimental Cases. 37
Miss T. burst out laughing and said, " Now I believe
in it."
The description of the lady fitted to an astonishing
degree, and in the gentleman Miss T. recognised one of
her relatives, who was reported to be a devoted admirer
of the lady. I broke off looking, the thought striking
me for the first time that in such a way we may really
intrude on our neighbours private life and hberty. The
lady hving here, the next day my friend, meetmg another
of her own relatives, enquired whether any one of them had
been at this lady's house. Then she came to me trium-
phant ; the cousin I had seen had been there. The
lady received him in a hght gown with long sleeves.
Now her and his outward appearance could have been
suggested to me by Miss T., as she knew both of them.
But the visit at this very hour and the dress of the
lady this none of us loiew or could loiow.
So I think my experience was a success. Both [those
present] and the family of Miss T. were witnesses to
the facts being true and accurate, and told before asserting
their reahty. N. Gernet.
Miss Klado writes :
St. Peteksbtjrg, November I4ih/26ih, 1896.
Je confirme que tout ce que M"'' Gernet vous a raconte
par rapport a sa vision de Tamie de M"'' T., s'est trouve verifie
le lendemam de notre seance, et que M'''^ Gernet n'avait
aucune connaissance de la personne et des circonstances
qu'elle voyait. A mesure qu'elle voyait, elle nous racontait
ce qu'elle avait vu. Marie Klado.
Miss S. T., who prefers that her name should not be given,
sent IVIiss Gernet the foUowing account, which was forwarded
to us, of her recollections of the sittmg.
Some time ago, a friend of mine, Miss Gernet, asked
me to try water-gazmg, and as I always felt a great
interest m such subjects, I very willingly complied with
her request.
38 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
A few days later we met, and for my part I cannot
deny that our experiment was a complete success, as
will be seen from the following account.
The person chosen by me, and of whom I was to think
on that occasion, was unknown to my friend, nor was
I ever m her house myself.
After gazing for some time into the Avater, my friend
said that she saw a room, and described it to me and
how it was furnished. Then further on she said that a
human figure appeared, that of a shght fair-haired woman,
dressed m a mornmg gown with wide sleeves, and which
seemed to be either white or a pale blue ; then my friend
told me that she saw the door open and a gentleman
enter the room ; and on my friend describing his person,
I recognised him at once.
The very next day I hastened to that lady's house,
and questioned her as to where she was on the preceding
evening, and how she was dressed. She told me that,
feehng rather unwell, she remained the whole evening
at home m her dressmg room, and that she wore a pale
blue dressing-gown that had wide sleeves ! On examining
her dressmg room, I was astonished beyond words to
find how very accurate the vision was, every detail
of it.
Miss Gernet writes, when sending the above account
:
[December, 1896.]
You will notice two differences with my version. (1)
Miss T. says I told the lady was dressed in white or
light blue. I said in reality only " light," as I do not
see colours generally, and the whole dress seemed indeed
whitish.
(2) The lady [is] reported to have stayed in her " dress-
ing " room. Now there are no dressing-rooms (in the
English sense of the word) as a rule in Russian houses,
but boudoirs. When I saw her dressing, the room seemed
half-hghted, rather dark ; afterwards it was lighted well
and the walls looked brighter, so I took it to be another
room.
Lxxxvi.] Exqjerimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 39
You may notice too that between my and Miss Klado's
account and this one nearly a month elapsed, so that
details are now, of course, less distinctly remembered.
You are quite right that one should write it down im-
mediately. . . .
N. Gernet.
If the mind of the person seen in the crystal or glass
of water did in these two cases contribute to the vision,
it was certainly unconsciously, so that to that extent
they resemble the semi-experimental cases to be next
considered.
§ 2. Semi-experimental Cases. Percipient Experimenting.
By a semi -experimental case I mean one in wfiich
either the percipient is trying to get an impression,
or the agent is trying to produce one, while the other
party to the experience is quite unaware that any attempt
is being made, and unconscious of contributing to it
in any way. Semi-experimental cases are dealt with
by Gurney in his book as—what they of course are
—transitional between experimental and spontaneous cases,
but he only considers those where the agent was the
experimenter. I think those where the percipient, with
the hope of obtaining impressions supernormally, puts
himself deliberately under conditions which he believes
conducive to this result, as in scrying, automatic writing,
etc., may well be regarded as semi-experimental too.
And as throwing light on the telepathic process, such
cases may be of considerable importance, for they show
that sometimes at least the percipient is not like a
blank sheet of paper, or a lantern screen, ready to
receive impressions which the agent throws on it, but
is himself the active party, and is like an explorer going
out to see what he can find. The word " agent " is
from this point of view not very happily chosen. It
does not fit well where the active part is played by
the percipient. Moreover, if success is possible without
conscious activity on the part of the agent, it seems
c
40 Mrs. Henry Siclgwick. [part
to follow that we cannot tell either in fully experimental
or in spontaneous cases how much of the successful
transference is due to the agent and how mvxch to the
percipient. The share due respectively to one or the
other may very likely differ in different cases. The
agent in joint experiments generally concentrates his
mind on the idea to be transferred if only for the sake
of ear-marking it and distinguishing it from other ideas
in his mind, but it does not follow that concentration
is a necessary part of the process, or even contributes
to the success. We are not justified in assuming from
such experiments that the idea could not be transferred
to the percipient unless the agent were consciously thinking
of it.i
In the majority of semi-experimental cases in our
collection the percipient is the experimenter. They are
of various kinds, and we may take first three which are
crystal visions, and in that respect like the two cases
already quoted.
The first (M. CI. 93, Journal, Vol. VII., p. 124) was sent to
us by Mr. Andrew Lang. He was well acquainted with all
the witnesses, whose names were given us in confidence.
(M. CI. 93.)
The following is the account of the seer :
St. Andrews, February 10th, 1895.
On Sunday, January 20th, 1895, at about 5.30 p.m.,
I was crystal gazitig and saw Miss M. L. in her drawing-
room in , sitting on a sofa, pouring out tea for a
man in a blue serge suit, whose back was towards me.
I noticed he had a brown moustache. Miss L. was
dressed in a dark-coloured blouse with a lace covering
over the shoulders. There was a lamp at Miss L.'s
1 For experiments when the activity seems to have been mainly on
the side of tlie jDercipient, see Mr. Hubert Wales' paper in Proceedings,
Vol. XXX., p. 124 et seq. Perhaps in such cases there is some quality
in the passive agent which makes it possible for the percipient to get
at certain parts of the contents of his mind.
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Oases. 41
left hand. I described what I had seen to her, and
she said what I had seen was quite correct. R. T. B.
Miss M. L. writes :
Mr. B., without explaining why, asked me at a ball
if I had been giving tea to a man on the previous Sunday
afternoon. Such a thing is possible any Sunday ; but
he then proceeded to describe my dress and also exactly
where I was sitting, so much so, that I at once said
that one of the bUnds must have been up and that
he had seen me from the other side of the road, which,
however, proves impossible, as Mr. B. was in St. Andrews
at the time.
He also described where the other man was sitting, with
his back to the window, and I was on the sofa giving
out tea, all of which I answered iinwittingly in the
affirmative. This is all I can remember. M. L.
Mr. B.'s sister writes to Mr. Lang:
Februanj \2th, 1895.
I enclose the separate accounts. T. wrote his in
St. Andrews on Sunday, and Miss L.'s was written yester-
day in answer to my letter and without her liavmg
seen T. agam. I am quite confident that he did see
the picture, though he msists that it must have been
a mere coincidence.
The next two cases (L. 1215, 1216, Journal, Vol. XVIII.,
pp. 191-193) we owe to Sir William Barrett, who knows
Mrs. Sails from whom he received them. Mrs. Sails writes :
(L. 1215.)
March 10, 1918.
My friend. Miss Taylor, has been able for some years
to see visions in the crystal, which are often veridical.
She always regretted not being able to hear what the
" vision people " were saying, and I decided to try an
experiment suggested by a French writer and induce
clairaudience by usmg a shell. I first induced a sKght
hypnotic trance and suggested verbally that she would
42 Mrs. Henry Sidgioiclc. [part
be able to hear. I then woke her and told her to look
in the crystal.
The first vision that appeared was the sitting-room in
the house of Mr. T. B., a friend of hers who I have
never seen. He was there with his brother and sister-m-
law, and the room was minutely described. It was
evening, and the gas lighted, and she saw the door open
and a man come in. At this moment I said, " Place
the shell to your ear." She did so, and to her dehght
she heard the newcomer exclaim, " There is good news
to-night, we have taken another village." They then
proceeded to talk about Mr. T. B. being called up and
what arrangements he would make. Afterwards a maid
came in with a tray of sandwiches and whisky and
soda, and the vision then faded.
Four days after, Miss Taylor went to see the B.'s and
said " I can tell you what you were doing on Saturday
evenmg," and to their great astonishment did so, every
detail being correct.
I may add that the expression " we have taken another
village " appeared as a headline in the evening paper,
but neither I nor Miss Taylor had seen it. I have never
seen the B.'s nor the house in question.
This was in the early spring of 1917. Mary Salts.
I append a signed statement [from the crystal gazer].
The above accoimt is exactly what occurred. The
vision was most distinct, and the voices quite clear.
I have never before heard any voices, though I have
always wished to do so. When I sjDoke to the B.'s
they were extremely surprised, as it was all correct in
every detail. E. M. Taylor.
March 11//;, 1918.
Mrs. SaHs writes : "I have been trying to get Mr. and
Mrs. B. (the people described) to sign a statement, but cannot
induce them to do so." She adds : "I have never used
hypnotism except to mduce '
clairaudience.' Miss Taylor sees
the visions in a perfectly normal condition."
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 43
(L. 1216.) .
Copy of notes made on Tuesday, February 12, 1918.
Last night at 9.45 E. T. looked in the crystal and saw
Geoffrey sitting m a small room. It was very simply
furnished, but there were a couple of armchairs, and
some pruats on the walls and a bright tire was burning.
G. was alone and was readmg a paper by the light of a
lamp placed on a table by him. I asked about the situa-
tion of the house, and she said it appeared to have many
trees near it, but it was quite dark outside. (It was
just as if she went outside to look !) After a moment
or two, she saw G. get up, put down the paper and
take up a book. He then opened the door, turned out
the lamp and went out, leaving the room m darkness.
M. Salis.
Note. I wrote at once to my son and received a reply
that all was correct. At the time I had no idea what
kmd of a buildmg he was sleeping m nor where it was
placed, but thought it belonged to Lord Tankerville.
April 17, 1918. M. Salis.
Mr. G. Sahs writes :
Whittingham, Northumbekland,
April 13, 1918.
The account my mother wrote me of Miss Ehsa Taylor's
vision in a crystal is remarkably accurate. I turned
down the lamp before opening the door, and the sliootmg
box in which I am livmg was built as the officer's mess
of the Canadian Forestry Co. and belongs to Lord Ravens-
worth not Lord Tankerville. It is warmed by a huge
log fire, and I am naturally saving of paraffin oil ! A
letter was written to me describing the vision a day or
two after it occurred. G. Salis.
In answer to further enquiries Mr. G. Sahs writes on April
22, 1918 :
(1) There are two green armchairs lent me by the
Navy and Army Canteen Board—they are the most
44 Mrs. Heyiry Sidgwich. [part
striking furniture in an otherwise barely furnished room.
There are 2 or 3 prints.
(2) The house is m a birch wood—trees growing right
up to it. A larch and two birches also are in front
and their branches sweep it.
(3) I get the Tmes every afternoon, by tram,
(4) but do not have time to read it until the evening.
I usually get finished about half-past nme and then pick
up a book, which I read a little before the fire and then
take to bed Avith me . . .
(Signed) Geoffrey Salis,
OlRcer m charge of attached Labour Board of Trade
Timber Supply Dej)artment with 112th Canadian
Forestry Corps, Whittuigham, Northumberland.
The following day Mr. Sahs wrote :
Li my statement of yesterday I forgot to say that
there are four coloured prmts " liuntuag types " on the
wall. They are the sole decoration (?) of the room.
It is of course very unfortunate that Mrs. Salis's
efforts to get the testimony of the passive agents in
Case (L. 1215) were unsuccessful, as it leaves the evid-
ence for the veridicality of the vision somewhat weak.
The auditory element—an induced auditory hallucination
corresponding with the simultaneously induced visual
hallvicination—is, however, of great interest, and it is
much to be desired that more experiments should be
tried on this line.
The second case (L. 1216) is as complete as immediate
record and subsequent verification can make it. The
only difficulty is in judging how far the details of the
vision might be the result of subconscious guessing—
•
the facts of Mr. G. Salis being engaged in forestry work,
and living in a shooting box, being known.
While on the subject of crystal-visions it may be
convenient to compare with these semi-experimental ones
an entirely spontaneous and more or less veridical vision
in a glass of water (L. 1134, Journal, Vol. XI., p. 157).
LXxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 45
(L. 1134.)
The case was kindly obtained for us by an Associate of the
Society, the Rev. A. H. E. Lee, of 3 Cambrian Terrace,
Holbeck Moor, Leeds. The full names and addresses of the
witnesses were given to us, with a request not to print
them.
The percipient, IVIrs. H., wTites :
Leeds, May mii, 1902.
On the night of AjDril 16th I retired to bed feeling
unusually depressed, placing a glass of water on the table
for drmkmg durmg the night. My husband was on night
duty at the time on the L.N.W. line. I awoke with
a start about three o'clock in the morning, and feelmg
thirsty, reached out of bed for the water ; when about
to partake of it, I saw, to my surprise, a moving picture
in the glass, comprising waggons, and in the rear a guard's
van ; as I looked they all appeared to smash into each
other, and I noticed the van in particular was the most
damaged. My husband came home about two hours
later and told me that he passed the scene of the acci-
dent, and that the guard was seriously injured. I regard
the above as somethmg more than a mere coincidence.
Mr. H. writes :
I am a Goods Inspector on the L.N.W. Railway, and
was travelling with a goods train to Manchester on the
night of April IGtli, 1902, and, after passing Ashton
at 3.10 a.m. on the 17th, I passed the scene of an acci-
dent, which had occurred to our Leeds to London express
goods train on the Micklehurst New Line, near Staley
and Millbrook Station. It was distinctly visible to me
and the goods guard I \\as traveUmg with, as the break-
down gang was out and large fires burning. On my
returning from Manchester, I passed over the scene of
the accident, and saw the waggons and guard's van, the
latter being very badly damaged ; that was about 7.50
a.m. April 17th. On my reaclung home, my wife told
me of the vision she had seen .
46 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
The following are questions addressed by Mr. Lee to Mrs. H.,
with her answers appended, I'eceived by us on June 30th,
1902 :
(1) Why were you depressed ? Did you connect your
dejiression with your husband ?
Ans. I was dejwessed on account of the childs illness,
and worried owing to my husband's absence from home
at such a time ;
upon seeing the vision, I at once thought
of my husband and wondered if he was safe.
(2) Did you see the time, or how did you know ?
A)is. At that time I lifted the clock off the mantel
and placed it on the table, where I could see it without
rising.
(3) Do you generally have water at your side 1
Ans. Every night, as the little girl generally asks for
water during the night.
(4) Was the room lighted, or how did you see the
picture 'I
Ans. The gas was left burning, turned low, and there
was a bright tire, as o\\ing to the siclaiess it was always
kept in.
(5) Did the whole train seem to smash up 1
Ans. When I saw the jiicture, there appeared to be
a few waggons and a guard's van ;
they all seemed to
smash into each other.
(6) What time did your husband come home ?
Ans. About nine o'clock in the morning.
(7) Had you connected the vision with him, and felt
anxious on that account ?
A71S. Yes.
(8) Did he tell you fii-st, or you him 1
Ans. I told him first, and to my surprise he knew
of the accident.
(9) Do you often have similar experiences and warnings ?
Ans. Very often, especially before siclaress.
(10) Have you ever heard of crystal-gazing ?
Ans. Yes, but I have never looked through one.
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 47
In answer to further questions from us, Mr. H. wrote on
August 13th, 1902 :
In answer to your letter of IGth ulto., I have been
unavoidably busy or would have rephed sooner.
(1) I was about a quarter of a mile from the scene
of the accident when I passed at 3 a.m., and saw the
men working on the hne, there being great fires burning
and numerous lanterns, but could not distmguish anything
else distinctly.
(2) The accident occurred at about 10 p.m.
(3) I passed the scene a second time at 7.50 the next
mornmg, and saw the brake van and one or two waggons
which had been m the collision, and aU very much broken
up.
Thus it appears that at the time when ]\irs. H. saw the
vision, her husband had only seen that there was an accident,
the details of A\"hich A\ere indistinguishable to him, and it "was
not until about five hours later that he actually witnessed
the details, which corresjjonded fairly closely to JVIi's. H.'s
vision. His connection with railway aliairs would be likely
to make his recollection of the times especially accurate
;
so that at first sight there might seem to be some difficulty
in explaining the case by telepathy from him to his wife.
We have to consider, however, that the mere Icnowledge that
an accident had taken place Avould inevitably call up m the
mind—especially of a railway man—some impression of the
details of the scene, wliich would be more or less m accord-
ance with the facts ; and it is not clear that Mrs. H.'s vision
accorded with them more closely than would such an impres-
sion. Thus the details of her vision might \\'ell have been
derived from the imjDression produced in his mmd on first
passing the scene.
There is only one other crystal-vision case in our
collection, and that was a vision shared by two percipients
both consciously experimenting. They were casually trying
whether, looking into the same crystal, they would both
48 Mrs. He7iry 8idg wick. [part
see the same vision, and the_y at least approximately did
so^ (L. 1126, Journal, Vol. X., p. 134).
(L. 1126.)
The account was sent to us through the kmdness of Mr.
Andrew Lang, one of the percipients, Miss Grieve, being a
niece of his ; '"^
it was received on October 11th, 1901.
Miss Grieve writes :
The Leaseowes, Halesowen, Worcestershire.
On June 24th C. and myself were reading anatomy
together. C. took the crystal ball and I looked over
her shoulder—both of us merely wondermg if we should
see the same thing. At the same moment the ball
darkened, a white cloud came over the whole, and three
pjrramids appeared, a large one m front, the other two
behind. Then a tram of camels, some with riders, others
being led, passed from left to right and disappeared
behind the large pyramid. The vision lasted about one
mmute, and vanished simultaneously for both of us. We
each wrote down as the things appeared, so as to be
accurate ; and I had no thoughts of pyramids m my
mind. B. H. Grieve.
Miss Grieve 's friend gives her own recollections of the
vision as follows :
On the 24th day of June, 1901, B. G. and myself were
looldng up muscles for an exam., and we had the crystal
ball on the table.
We both looked into it casually, and I at least had
no definite thoughts in my mmd, when simultaneously
we saw some pyramids appear, one large one in front
^ It may be worth comparing an experiment described in Proceedings,
Vol. VI., p. 434, in which a hallucinatory picture on a blank card
which had been suggested to one hypnotised percipient was apparently
transferred telepathically to another when she was shown the card.
Compare also a collective vision in a mirror. Journal, Vol. XII., p. 17,
and Proceedings, Vol XXI., p. 463.
^ Foi other experiences of Miss Grieve see p. 32 and 340.
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 49
and others behind, seemmgly m a row, and coming round
from the left to right a train of camels appeared. On
the first one was a man, whose features I could not
distinguish, as he was muffled up. Most of the other
camels had large packages on their backs and were led.
The procession passed slowly round the pyramid and
then all vanished.
Another day I was looking into the ball by firehght
hoping to see a favourite colhe dog that had died a year
previously.
The ball turned all black at first, then a light spot
appeared in the centre and gradually spread nearly ;iU
over the ball. In the centre of this was a true portrait
of the dog,—perfectly hfe-hke. The vision only remained
a few seconds. Catherine Coad.
The second vision described by IVIiss Coad seems to show
a special faculty on her part of vivid visuahsation ; it was,
therefore, especially important to ascertam whether any con-
versation took place between her and Miss Grieve durmg
the course of the vision, which might have suggested to her
the same scene. In reply to questions on this pomt, and
as to the notes made at the time. Miss Grieve wites to us :
October llth, 1901.
... I am sorry to say I cannot send you the rough
notes we made at the time ; we left them here (at the
college) last term and cannot find them anywhere now. . . .
The descriptions were written immediately after seeing
the vision, but before either of us said anything, and we
did not speak while the vision lasted. . . .
Bertha H. Grieve.
This scene does not seem to have been derived from
anything external to the scryer's minds, nor could they
trace any associations of ideas which might have suggested
it. As moreover they did not speak till they had both
written down what they saw, thus avoiding verbal sugges-
tion, the concordance in their visions was apparently
due to telepathy between them. With which of the
ladies the vision started we cannot tell. Both have
50 Mrs. Henry Siclgivich. [part
on other occasions had telepathic experiences, sometimes
as agent and sometimes as percipient.^ Perhaps the
most probable explanation of their collective crystal
vision is that they both on this occasion acted in both
capacities. Both Avere obviously percipients and both
may have been agents—one starting the idea, but its
development depending on action and reaction between
their minds, operating as verbal suggestion might have
done had they commented on what they saw as the
vision proceeded.
In the case I will next quote (L. 1208, Journal, Vol.
XVII., p. 235) there is, as in some crystal visions, a
deliberate attempt to see something in connexion with
a particular person, and apparently to see it in a definite
position in space though without the use of artificial
aid such as a crystal.
(L. 1208.)
We received the case from Mr. L. C. Powles, a member
of the Society. The percipient was Mr. James W. Sharpe,
late Fellow of Gonville and Cains CoUege, Cambridge.
Mr. Powles' statement of the case is as follows :
The Highlands, Rye, Sussex, July 2, 1916.
Ou Aug. 4, 1913, I had been invited by a friend,
Miss B., living m the neighbouring town, some three
miles off, to meet Mr. James W. Sharpe. On the after-
noon of that day, therefore, I rode over to her house,
leaving my Avife, who was not well enough to accompany
me, resting by herself.
At tea-time we talked, I think, entirely upon psychical
matters, and I remember askmg Mr. Sharpe if he saw
" auras " round people, and, if so, what he saw round me.
At first he saw nothing, but later he said :
" You asked
me to tell you ; I do now see something." He saw two
thmgs behind me. (I now refer to my notes made
^ Miss Coad was one of the three experimenters concerned in the
short series of thought-transference experiments mentioned above as
sent by Miss Grieve and recorded in the Journal, Vol. X., pp. 260-263.
Lxxxvi.] Exioerimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 51
the same evening on my return.) " One, a dark, not
inimical,! half-human creature, with Imotted hands placed
upon my shoulders." This he said was " symbohcal of
ilhiess near at hand—a warnmg."
Then appeared the " faint sUght figure of a young
woman with oval face, etc." (here follow some details
Avhich very well apply to my wife's appearance). She
" tried to avert the illness."
When I came home towards six o'clock my wife told
me she had been very anxious about my being out in
the cold wind ; also—and this is the important part
of the case—she had been quite obsessed by a somewhat
grotesque story of a man dressed up as a gorilla who
comes up behind the master of the house and strangles
him with his hands. L. C. Powles.
We have also received a statement from Mrs. Powles, as
follows :
July 2, 191G.
I remember perfectly my husband going over to tea
on Aug. 4, 1913, at our friend's house. Miss B.'s, and
my being unable to go with him that day.
I was anxious about him, as he had only recently
recovered from pneumonia, and there was a very cold
wind. To pass the time and divert my thoughts I
took up the Strand Magazine, and became absorbed in
a very horrible story of a man disguised as a gorilla
who came behind his enemy and broke his neck with his
powerful hands.
I have always had a great horror of gorillas from
childhood, and far-fetched as it was, I was made very
nervous and oppressed by the story and longed for my
husband's return. Immediately he came, I told him
of the story and the absurdly nervous state it had left
me in. This interested him extremely, and he then
told me something of Mr. Sharpe's vision. He did not
at the time describe it quite fully for fear of alarming me,
and particularly did not mention that Mr. Sharpe thought
it might be a Health-wammg. Isabel G. Powles.
1 For comment on this word, see below,
52 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
It will be observed that these two statements were written
on July 2, 1916, nearly three years after the occurrence of
the incident to which they refer Mr. PoMdes' statement,
however, is based on notes made within a few hours of this
incident, and we have been able to obtam further corroborative
evidence in the form of a statement by Miss B.^ who was
present when the percipient, Mr. Sharpe, described his impres-
sions, and also a letter written by Mr. Powles to Miss B.
on the day after the incident occurred.
Miss B.'s statement, contained in a letter to Mr. Powles,
which was written in reply to his enquiry whether she reme m-
bered Mr. Sharpe 's " vision,"—is as follows :
July 27, 1916.
Certainly I remember Mr. Sharpe 's " vision " on the
4th of August, 1913, and that you wrote to me on the
following day giving me what you felt to be an explanation
of it.
I remember that Mr. Sharpe said he seemed to see
a non-human creature with his Imotted hands on your
shoulders, and that is the expression you used in your
letter of the 5th of August, 1913, . . . I remember that
Mr. Sharpe said it might be a health-warning, and that
he also said he saw a young, oval-faced woman trying
—
as you say—to avert this monster's apparently evil intent.
I enclose your letter to me of the 5th of August, 1913
(which I happened to keep), which gives the account
of how Mrs. Powles read the story m the Strand Magazine.
M. B.
Letter from Mr. Powles to Miss B.
The Highlands, Rye, Sussex, Atigust 5, 1913.
With regard to the visions Mr. Sharp[e] saw behind
me yesterday . . .
My wife tvas thinking much about my health—hoiking
I was not getting tired or sittuig in draughts, but—and
this is still more curious—she was also reading in the
^ This lady's name and address are known to us, but are withheld here
at her request.
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases 53
" Strand " for July a horrible story about a man dressed
as a gorilla who comes behmd the master of the house
and breaks his neck with his hands in the dark. This
story quite oppressed her and might easily account for
the " dark, non-human, creature behind me with his
knotted hands on my shoulder." ... L. C. Powles.
jVIr. Powles has informed us that m replj^ to an enquiry
addressed to Mr. Sharpe, asking whether he remembered the
incident described above, Mr. Sharpe wrote that
he does not remember the actual vision, but that by
" mimical " (see above, p. 51) he meant a symboHcal
Health-wammg or warning of trouble to come, but not
actively hostile.
The " health-warning "—Mr. Powles tells us
—" has not
proved to be veridical, as I have not been ill at all since,
and no disaster has hapjaened."
The percipient, Mr. Sharpe, apparently interpreted,
his vision as a symbolic representation of his own impres-
sion concerning Mr. Powles' health. But the corre-
spondence of the vision with what was in the mind of
Mrs. Powles at a distance is very remarkable, and the
element of oddness in it seems to remove any probability
of its being accidental, or the result of fortunate sub-
liminal guessing. If it was due to telepathy, Mr. Powles'
mind must apparently have been concerned as well as
that of Mrs. Powles, for it is improbable that Mr. Sharpe
would have got into touch with her had her husband
not been present.
There are in the collection two cases of visions at
seances, experimental in the sense that the percipients
had put themselves in the circumstances in which they
knew themselves to be liable to experience such visions.
In neither case was the vision recognised at the time,
but in both it corresponded more or less with true events.
It must be observed, however, that in neither case was
there apparently any effort to get an impression about
54 Mrs. Henry SidgivicJc. [part
particular events or connected with particular agents,
and tliat in both we are told that the percipient frequently
had visions of the kind, while we have not the material
for judging how far and how often these visions were
veridical. The experiences therefore share the evidential
weakness of dreams, and our estimate of their value
will depend on how far the amount of correspondence
between vision and fact seems beyond what is hkely
to occur occasionally by chance. In the first (G. 267,
Journal, Vol. X., p. 170) the percipient has a vision,
repeated after a short interval, of a small child setting
fire to its clothes, some nine hours after the death,
unknown to the percipient, of a little nephew from that
cause, though the details of the accident and vision
did not exactly correspond.
(G. 267.)
For the evidence in the case we are indebted to Mr. W. W.
Baggally, who was acquainted with the principal witnesses
in the case and has full confidence in their integrity. The
percipient, Mr. John Polley, writes :
At a seance hekl witliin the soinid of Big Ben on
May 8th, 1901, there were present Mrs. E. V. M., Mr.
Thomas Atwood, and myself. As Mr. Atwood resumed
his seat after dehvering an invocation (about 8.30 p.m.),
I became aware of a vision, which presented itself on
the left of where I was seated. The scene appeared as
being some 5 feet distant from me, and displayed part
of the interior of a room, viz., that part where the
stove stood. The fire in the stove was small and dull,
and close beside it was an overturned chair. In front
of the fire Avas somethmg that looked Hke a fire-guard
or clothes-horse, but this was not quite clear to me.
Playing or climbmg over this article was a child, who
fell forward, and, when it regamed its feet, I noticed that
its dress was on fire.
I made no reference to the matter at the time, as I
had an impression that the vision might be connected
with some occurrence in the family of Mrs. M., and I was
averse to mentioning it for fear of awaking sad memories.
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 55
After some manifestations of movements of the table
round which we were seated the whole vision was repeated,
and this time I had an uncontrollable impulse to speak.
Uj)on my describing what I had just seen for the second
time, I was much relieved to hear that the matter was
not recognised as being connected in any way with the
sitters. I may mention here that the child appeared
to be about three years old, and, judging from the style
of dress, I described it as a girl, although the vision
would apply equally well to a boy, as, at that early a.i;e,
the short clothes worn by both sexes would be very simiLar.
Next Thursday morning. May 9th, 1901, upon awakening,
I described to my wife the events of the previous evening's
seance. On the evening of the same day, viz., Thursday,
May 9th, I was out with a friend, and upon my return
home at 11.5 p.m. my sister, Mary Louisa Policy (who resided
with me at that time), made the remark, " I have a
piece of bad news for you. Jack." "Well," I replied,
" what is it ? let me know," and she answered, " Brother
George's little son Jackie has been burned to death." Like
a flash I reahsed the connection of the sad event with
my vision of the previous night. I then asked her (my
sister), " How did you loiow this, and when ?
" She
replied, " Mr. Fred Sinnett told me when he came over
to see us this evening." John Polley.
The other two sitters confirmed Mr. Policy's statement in
writing, and both Mrs. Polley and Mr. Policy's sister furnished
written accounts of their Imowledge of the matter as described
in Mr. Policy's statement.
A local paper, which Mr. Baggally has sent us, containing
an account of the inquest, gives the date of the accident
as Tuesday, May 7th. The child was taken to a hospital
immediately and there died. His father, Mr. F. G. Polley, a
decorative jjainter, writes to Mr. Baggally in reply to his
inquiries as follows :
6 Adpar Stbeet, Hall Park, Paddington,
Jwne mh, 1901.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your mquiry respecting my late
son, John Frederick, I beg to say that on Tuesday,
D
56 3Irs. Henry Sidg wick. [part
May 7th, my wife went out to do some shopping, leaving
my son, aged 2 years and 2 months, in a bed sitting-room
with another brother, aged 7. Whilst the elder brother
was getting some toys for them to play with, the deceased
thrust some paper in the fire, pulled it out again, and
set fire to his clothes. Some neighbours took him to
the Children's Hospital, Padduigton Green, where he
passed away on Wednesday, May 8th, at 11.45 a.m. No
intimation of this was given by myself or any member
of our family to my brother, Mr. John PoUey, until a
friend of the family called at my address on Thursday,
May the 9th, between 1 and 2 p.m., when we mformed
him of the sad loss we had sustained, and he told us
he intended calling on my brother that eveniag, and
we asked him if he would communicate the news to
my brother and sister, who reside at Church Street,
Stoke-Newmgton. Of course you loiow, sir, I am anta-
gonistic to your views, but my brother has told me it
is for the interests of science ; if that is so, I take great
pleasure in its furtherance.—Yours sincerely,
Frederick George Polley.
In a later letter to Mr. Baggally, Mr. F. G. Polley states
that there was a fire-guard in the room ; the httle boy did
not fall into the fire, but set himself on fire as described
above.
Mr. Baggally himself writes further with regard to the case
as follows :
December 4:th, 1901.
. . . Mrs. M. is not a medium and does not profess
to have any mediumistic powers. Mr. John Polley is
accustomed to have impressions of a so-caUed clairvoyant
and clairaudient nature, so is Mr. Thomas Atwood, but
they are not public mediums. The vision referred to is
not unique in the experience of Mr. J. PoUey. ... If I
recollect rightly I saw the father of the child, Mr. G. F.
Polley, on May 22nd, who handed to me the newspaper
with the account of the accident. A few days after
he sent me his written statement. I obtained the written
statements of Mi". J. PoUey, Mr. Atwood and Mrs. M.,
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Exiieriniental Cases. 57
and ]\Irs. Elizabeth Pollej'' in June. The statement of
Miss Mary Louisa Polley I did not obtain till November,
hence the delay in sendmg the account to the S.P.R. . . .
W. W. Baggally.
The other case of the same sort (M.Cl. 22, Journal,
Vol. v., p. 73) was unfortunately not recorded till more
than two and a half years after the event, and there
are considerable differences in the accounts of the different
witnesses, though they agree on the main point. More-
over the vision as remembered is less detailed than one
could wish. As the whole account is long it will perhaps
suffice if I only give an abstract of it.
In May 1888 four ladies at Denver, Colorada, were
in the habit of meeting once a week to sit round a
table " to see what would happen," one of them, Mrs.
Logue, being a " medium so-called," though not a pro-
fessional one, and frequently having impressions and
visions. At one of these meetings Mrs. Logue had a
vision of a man lying very ill and a tall pale lady writing
—
which vision she distinctly connected with one of the
ladies present, Mrs. T. Mrs. T. did not at the time
recognise it ; but the next day she received a letter
from a daughter in Indiana saying her husband was
seriously iU, and the following day a telegram announced
his death. He had died of pneumomia after a very
short ilhaess. Mrs. T.'s daughter had been writing a
post-card to her mother at, or very near, the time of
the seance. The description of her personal appearance
was correct as far as it went. If the vision was telepathic
the rapport between Mrs. Logue and Mrs. T., due to their
sitting together, and between Mrs. T. and her daughter
who was actvially writing to her at about the time of
the vision, may well have furnished a telepathic con-
nexion such as would produce the vision.
There is a case (L. 1152, Journal, Vol. XII., p. 307)
which may, I think, be conveniently considered with
semi-experimental telepathic visions, though the percipient
was not trying or expecting to see anything, but merely
58 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
talking of the friend she saw and looking at her photo-
graph, and though the vision was apparently merely a
mind's-eye vision not externalised. The actions and
surroundings seen were not in themselves very striking,
but the amount of correspondence between impressions
and fact seems more than would be likely to occur by
chance. With this case is given another, entirely spon-
taneous, in which the percipient in the first was apparently
the agent, the percipient being her sister. This is inter-
esting as apparently showing a family capacity to become
conscious of telepathic impressions, and that capacity
as agent and as percipient may be combined.
The two cases were obtained from Mrs. D. by Mr.
J. G. Piddingiion, who saw the original letters referred
to and himself copied them and talked over the incidents
with Mrs. D. The full names and addresses of all the
persons concerned were given to us with the request to
print only initials.
(L. 1152.)
Verbatifn copy by J. G. P. of note ivritten by Mrs. D. on
Saturday, January 27th, 1900.
" Saturday, January 27th, 1900. This afternoon while
I was sitting near the fire talking to L., I was holding a
small photo, of Mrs. H. and describing her. '
Where is
she now ? '
asked L. '
In Rome,' I answered, '
settled for
the winter.' And as I spoke, suddenly I felt conscious of
what she might be doing at the time. '
Do you know,'
I went on, 'I thmk she must be just coming out of her
room on to a high terrace such as we have here, only that
there is green over it.' L. did not say 'nonsense,' but just
asked quietly :
'
What is she wearing ?
'
'A black skirt,'
I answered, '
and a mauve blouse—she is lookmg out over
many roofs and spires—and now she has gone back into
the room and a maid is closing the shutters.' '
Can you
see her room ?
'
asked L. '
I think it is small ;
'
I said,
'
there is a cottage-piano and a writmg-table near it.
I think the large head of Hermes stands on it and some-
thmg silver.' And then I felt nothmg more and added,
'
What nonsense I have been talkmg.' L. thinks there
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Se^ni-Exjjerirnental Cases. 59
may be some truth in the impression and wants me to
write and ask Mrs. H. what she remembers of this after-
noon. It Avas about six o'clock.
" I cannot say I saw anythmg ; somehow I seemed to
feel her surroundings were just so. I have never been to
Rome, nor has she told me anything of where she lives
beyond the address."
Copy of extracts, selected by J. G. P. from a letter addressed
by Mrs. H. to Mrs. D. Postmark of envelope :
" 6 2 00 Boma."
February Mi, 1900.
" Two days ago, as I was dressmg m the morning, I was
thinldng of you. You had been so much in my thoughts
for some days that I had really worried, A\'onderuig if you
were still ill, or E. agaiii. That morning as I awoke,
thoughts of you came, and I determmed to write you as
soon as I had had my coffee. Imagine my surprise and
dehght, therefore, to receiA^e your letter, a letter so full of
interest to me, that I have had no rest since its arrival,
in my great desire to answer it. I have really had no
moment to call my oaaii. The two days smce it came
seem hke two weeks to me, for when one desires to do
anything very much, the time seems long, doesn't it ?
[The writer then explains at length Avhy she had been
prevented from writing for tv/o days.] . . .
" You have certamly, however, filled much of my
thoughts these day[s],—and I have felt you m an extra-
ordinary manner. You certainly have a power to visit
your friends, and to see them, and to make them feel you.
Your letter is absolutely startling and mysterious. And
now I can answer it detail for detail, and item for item.
[The writer then avows her behef in telepathy and clair-
voyance.] . . . That you have peejDed at me in my small
Roman house is certainly a fact. As you state the facts,
every small detail is not altogether exact, but the facts as
a whole are true and exact and perfect, as you shall see.
Your vision (if I may call it so) is so true and marvellous
that on Sunday last, the 4th, about 3 p.m. (that was
yesterday) as I was lookmg from my window in the salon
60 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
with Mr. S., watching a great funeral of one of Rome's
best-loved Cardinals, I related your ghmpse into my house,
and I could not help exclaimuig :
'
perhaps Madame D.
sees us now ... as we are standing here in our window.'
" Let me begin by answering bit by bit all you say.
I have a dear httle vme-covered terrace, lookmg out into
the Piazza di Spagna, and lookmg also right up to the
spires or rather towers of S. Truaita dei Monti, with the
great obelisk m front. The afternoon of Jan. 27th I
returned to my home, after a walk and [after] making a
few purchases, at 5 p.m. I took off my fur jacquette,
and went at once into my dming-room to see about the
dimier-table, as three friends came [or, '
come '] at 7 p.m.
to dine. I busied myself about the table for some time,
then stepped on to the terrace (which is so pretty, but
opens, unfortunately, from the kitchen). I went into the
terrace at that time to see about our dessert for dinner,
which I had put there to become cool. Then I went back
into the dining-room, and as the hanging-lamjD had just
been hghted, I ordered the maid to drop the outside
curtams. She did so. I remember that I looked just
then at the clock, and it was 5.35 p.m. I had on a black
skirt, a black silk blouse, and a mauve tie, which twisted
about my neck and hung in two ends to my waist. It
looked to you hke a mauve blouse. Then I went into our
small salon and took something from the table. I re-
member it distuactly. Our salon is very small ; there is
an upright j^iano and a writing-table, on which are j)hotos
and books too, and a lot of httle silver thmgs. Hermes
(your photo to me) stands very near, on another Httle
table, quite near m fact. It is all quite mysterious.
I believe you have really peeped into my house." . . .
[The letter concludes with a detailed description of how the
writer spends her day ; the description bemg given in response
to a request from Mrs. D. In the course of it occur the
following phrases] :
" You fairly startled me when you tell me that our
acquaintance was made m just five days ! I had never
comited it, and yet you are perfectly right, it was just
LxxxvT.] Exi)erimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 61
five days, and made up of bits of time together and a
few conversations. As I remember, you and I really never
had one moment actually by ourselves. . . . You say truly
that our intellectual friendship will have gone far ahead
of the personal. Then Frencli-readmg and my piano and
zither I brmg in when a rainy day or spare moments
offer. Tell me of your day, do. ..."
[At an interview on \st May, 1905, Mrs. D. gave J. Q. P. the
following information, mostly in ansiver to his questions] :
At the time of the incident m question Mrs. H. was httle
more than a hotel acquamtance. They had spent only 6 days
together at an hotel, and had since corresponded. ]Mis. D.
knew ]\Irs. H. Avas a widow. When she had last seen her,
Mrs. H. was in '
sUght mournmg,' white and black, Mrs. D.
thinks. She does not remember to have seen her wearing
mauve and black, or mauve at all. From a subsequent letter
addressed to Mrs. D. by Mrs. H. it appears that the terrace
was on a 3rd or 4th storey.
The head of Hermes was a gift to Mrs. H. from Mrs. D.
Mrs. D.'s note was made on the same evening as she received
the impression, and on Miss T.'s advice. The name of the
friend—L.—was Miss T. Miss T. is now dead.
Mrs. D. told J. G. P. that so far as she was aware, Mrs. H.
did not play the piano, and at any rate she (Mrs. D.) had no
notion she was musical. [See, however, the reference in Mrs.
H.'s letter to piano and zither.]
The above, written on 3rd May, 1905, is an expanded version
of notes made at interview on 1st May, 1905.
J. G. P.
[Copy of letter addressed by Mrs. C, then living at Liverpool,
to her sister, Mrs. D., living at Athens. The English postmark
shows the date of year " —84," and the Greek postmark the day
of month, viz. Dec. 10, i.e. Dec. 22, N.S.] :
Dec. im [1884].
"... You may imagine with what delight we received
your telegram [i.e. announcing birth of first baby]. . . .
62 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
You must know a very funny thing happened to me, and
never agam pooh-pooh presentiments. I told C. and Miss
and H. the very next day, so that they would not
say it was my idea. On Thursday last, after having gone
to sleep, I awoke suddenly with a sensation of some one
being in my room. I sat up in bed and I saw you
distmctly on a rocking-chair m a flannel loose blue
dressing-gown. You were sitting up on the chair : I mean
not leaning back, but stoojDmg and rocking yourself as if
in pam. It was so distinct that I forgot I was not there,
and bemg, I suppose, myself half-asleep, said, '
Oh, J. has
begun,' and was not frightened. Then you got up and
went to the sofa, lay down, and then again to the chair.
I then got so nervous, I got out of bed, went and washed
my face Avith cold water, and got to bed and went
to sleep. But again I awoke and da caiw the same thing.
That morning I told them that I was sure you had had
the baby, and was disappointed at not havmg any news.
I after[wards] forgot all about it, but when I heard you
had had labour pams on that identical night, I am sure
everything happened just as I saw it, and that when
I went to sleep, so did you. Is it so ? Tell me exactly
what you did : if you were up, and if you sat on a
rocking-chair and lay on the sofa, and if you slept at
intervals. Lately, too, I have been very very nervous,
and that may account for it, but see you I did as dis-
tmctly as possible.
... I hope we shall soon have news about you, as
I am very anxious to hear particulars. . .
."
[On May 1, 1905, Mrs. D. told J. G. P. her sister Imew of
her aj^proaching confinement. The blue dressing-gown had been
made a few days before sj)ecially for the confinement, and her
sister could not have known about it. In all resjDects Mrs. C.'s
hallucination corresponded with the real facts.]
Mr. Piddington adds :
Mrs. D. is a quite first-class witness ; a sensible, clear-
headed woman, and )nost careful not to overstate things.
She has " clear " dreams like those described by Dr. van
LXXXVI.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases.
Eeden,^ of which she has for many years kept a careful
record, made iii nearly every, if not in every, iiistance the
day after the dream. These records I have read, and they
give one the same favourable impression of her smcerity
and honesty and exactness as does her conversation The
dreams are remarkable rather for their lifehke character, in
which they are quite distinct from her ordinary dreams,
than for their veridicahty, but some are veridical, though
not evidentially strong. In these dreams she has long and
perfectly rational conversations with dead friends and
relations, whom in her dream she knows to be dead.
Mrs. D. afterwards sent Mr. Piddington the following state-
ment :
May 26fh, 1905.
According to your expressed desire I write to tell you
that the details of my sister's dream or vision, contained
in her letter of the 14th December, 1884, corresponded
exactly with the facts, my daughter having been bom on
the 30th of November of the same year, just as my sister
saw it happenmg.
From visual impressions we may pass to cases of true
impressions of fact not externalised as hallucinations
received by a percipient who was experimenting. In one
of these (L. 1164, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 130) the per-
cipient has through a number of years sought for impres-
sions concerning persons in her company, usually with
contact. It is to be regretted that fuller records have
not been preserved. Several of the instances mentioned
were, however, recorded within the prescribed five years
of their occurrence, and some are corroborated. One
reason for giving the case in full is the percipient's
interesting remarks about the way she gets the impressions
—partly by observation and inference and partly appa-
rently by telepathy, while in the latter case seemingly
irrelevant association of ideas appears sometimes to play
a curious part. The case was sent to Dr. Hodgson, and
came to us from the American Branch of the Society.
1 See Proceeding.-;, .S.P.i?., Vol. X\'II., pp. 8(j and 112.
64 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. . [part
(L. 1164.)
Letter from. Mr. G. V. Chase.
Neosho, Mo., Mar. Ith, 1900.
My dear Dr. Hodgson,—Anent my letter of yesterday let
me giA^e you a Little experience—my first—with telepathy
of the hving.
Some seven or eight years ago my wife's sister, who is
the wife of one of the editors of the
'
' San Francisco Call
'
'
(newspaper) had an attack of La Grippe. Soon after her
recovery she spontaneously developed this faculty in a
wonderful degree, and in nearly every letter to her sister
(my wife) she recounted some of her experiences. We were
all avowed Agnostics. In August of 1895 I had occasion
to visit San Francisco, and was of course the guest of
Mrs. Adam, my sister-in-law, and her husband. Soon after
my arrival I alluded to the subject and asked her to try
to read 7ny mind. She consented, and, taking my left
hand m her left, she explained that under these conditions
she had the best success, making her mmd as complete a
blank as it was possible. To this latter end she toyed
aimlessly with a pack of cards lying in her lap—and waited
for "impressions." After some time she announced that
she got absolutely nothing, and said that with some she
never had any success. I remarked that perha])s it was
because I was not thinking of anything persistently or
deeply. She replied by telling me to thmk of some
occurrence of recent date—say some man I had met—his
name and features. I thought of a gentleman I had met
the morning before on the platform at Bakersfield as the
train was changing engines. He stepped up to me,
accosting me by name and said :
" You don't remember
me, do you ?
" I confessed that I did not. He said,
" My name is Harris," and reminded me that some years
ago when I was Aide-de-Camp to Gen. Howard, he came
to our Headquarters in S. F. with a letter of introduction
from my brother—and that I gave him a pass on the
Government steamer " M'Dowall " for a trip about the bay.
Even then I could nob recall him. He told me he was
going up to Grass Valley to look after some mining
interests in a few days and hoped to see me in S. F.
Lxxxvi.] ExjMrimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 65
Well, I thought of this man. Presently Mrs. A. said,
" His name is of two syllables—accented on the first
"
—
and then she asked me to signify assent if it was true
—
as it seemed to help her. I therefore said "Yes." After
perhaps ten seconds she said, " It is a name that sounds
hke '
Parish,' " but, she added quickly, " That's not it
"
—
a sUght pause
—" It is Harris." I, much astonished, said
it was—when she added, " And his initials are '
C. H.,'
"
or whatever they were (I have now forgotten). I said
that I did not loiow what his mitials were. Then she
began to describe the appearance of Mr. Harris, I assenting
as she went on, and her description was as accurate as
I could have given. A day or so afterwards she and
I were going across the Bay to Berkeley to make a call,
and arrived at the ferry depot just too late to catch the
boat, and had to wait for the next one. As Ave sat in
the waitmg-room I saw this ]\Ii\ Harris enter, and at once
went to him, shook hands, and brought him over and
introduced him to my sister. I told him of the matter
wherem his name figured ; and before relathig that peivt
concemmg his initials, I suddenly said, By the way,
Mr. Harris, what are your initials ? " He said " C. H.,"
or whatever they were, but the same ones given by Mi's. A.
It is of course possible and probable that his initials were
upon the letter of mtroduction, but they were certamly
gone from my conscious memory. Another instance :
Mr. Adam is an Englishman, and generally meets most of
his countrjmien of note who pass through S[an] F[rancisco],
and sometimes brings them home. One (not sure which)
evenmg at Mrs. A.'s " At Home " quite a number filled her
parlour, and among them a young Enghshman—a stranger
Mr. A. had picked up somewhere. The conversation
turned upon the subject of telepathy, and this yomig man
expressed much doubt of its reality, but begged Mrs. A. to
" see if she could get anything " for him. His hostess
good-naturedly assented, prefacing the attempt with the
remark that she often failed. Takmg his hand—many of
the company gathermg about—after a moment she said,
" I get the impression that you sold a lot to-day to a
man, by the name of O'Brien, for 8000 doUars." " Oh,"
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
he laughed, " you are away off, for I. never owned a lot,
not even one in a graveyard ; if I did, I think sometimes
I'd go and occupy it." "Well," she said, "that's the
impression I get." A lady who was sitting some eight
feet from Mrs. Adam arose quickly and said, " That's the
queerest thing that ever happened to me. / sold a lot
to-day to a man by the name of O'Brien for eight
thousand dollars." The faculty, whatever it is, apparently
hke other forces, acts or proceeds along the line of least
resistance," and must therefore be hke them, natural, and
probably vibratory in its nature. This did not occur in
my presence, but several others have. Mrs. Adam no
doubt could furnish corroboration if addressed at 1449 Clay
Street, S. F., Cal.
She possesses the faculty of pre-cognition to a wonderful
degree. She is not a spiritualist, quite the reverse ; is
intensely prejudiced against the theory, or used to be ;
I have not seen her for two years.
G. V. Chase.
From Mrs. Adam to Dr. Hodgson.
CoLASi, Philippine Islands, August I5th, 1902.
Dear Doctor,—As you desire some record of my tele-
pathic experiences and my own views as to their source,
I take pleasure in sending you the following account which
I gathered from old diaries. I greatly regret that more
complete records have not been kept.
In February, 1893, the Olympic Athletic Club of San
Francisco gave a fete for the benefit of its treasury, and
I was asked to take charge of Sybil's booth. I had often
read character from physiognomy and tricks of manner
common to certain types, but prior to this I had never
tried telepathy.
After the first evening in the booth I was walking home
with a Britisher named Gadsden (now dead). As we
walked along he said, " You don't really think you can
tell anything, do you ?
" I rephed that I claimed to have
no occult gift whatever. He said, " No one in this city
or m America, for that matter, Itnows my birth-iDlace.
LXXXVI.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 67
Could you tell me that, I would believe in telepathic
communication.
"
After a short silence (during which I was holding his
arm) I said, " Bonchurch in the Isle of Wight comes to
me." My companion seemed much agitated, and said
with surprise, " You are right, and now I am convinced
that you have some peculiar power."
"'Well," I rephed, "I thought of Ventnor first, so you
see I was only guessing."
" Still more wonderful," said Gadsden, " for I was born
ten miles ^ from the coast midway between Bonchurch
and Ventnor. I chose the question as being one impossible
for you to answer miless you could read my mind."
Now, I look on that as a good case of pure mmd-
reading. I took courage from this experience, and durmg
the rest of the fete I mtrepidly read the past and future of
those who came to my booth, and often with startlmg
success, which I attribute, in part, to my own self-assur-
ance.
Since 1893 I have told thousands of " fortmies " by
impressions, and probably been successful Avith seventy-five
out of a hundred. The greater number of trials have been
wdth contact, though trials mthout contact, while on the
whole not so successful, have sometimes given strildng
results.
Two years ago, at an evenmg at home, I was trying to
get telepathic results for one of my guests. A strange
lady, whom one of my friends had brought Avith her, was
sitting behmd me. I told the gentlenian whose mmd I
was trying to read, that he had that day sold a piece of
land to a man named O'Brien. He rephed that I was
wrong, as he had no land to sell. The stranger (a lady
from Chicago whom I had never met before) said, " That
is very strange, for I sold a piece of land to-day to a man
named O'Brien."
There was m this case no personal contact.
One day during the Spanish-American war, my nephew,
Mr. Chase, and I were watching the departure of some
[There must, I think, be some mistake here as Bonchurch and
Ventnor are within a mile or two of each other, E.M.S.]
68 Mrs. Heyiry Sidgwick. [part
troops for the front from the steps of a private residence.
Just below us sat a Httle woman with a faded shawl over
her shoulders. I had a strong impression about her, and
told my nephew to ask her if her name was not Smith,
and if she was not born m Dumfries, Scotland. Mr. Chase
asked her name and the place of her birth, to which she
answered, "Mary Smith, and I was bom in Dumfries."
There was no contact in this case, but in the following
the young woman was brushing my hair at the time.
I was once visitmg a family named Randall, at Hustis-
ford, Wis., and was rather attracted to a pretty servant
girl who used to help me with my hair. One day while
'
she was with me I had a strong impression concerning her,
and asked her if her grandfather was not killed M'hile
crossing a river. She said she thought not, at least she
had never heard of it. That night she went home to her
mother (the daughter of a German pioneer), returning the
next day very much excited, and saying that her mother
had told her it was true ; that her grandfather had been
lulled by the Indians while crossing the river with a
boat-load of skins. The girl had no doubt heard the
story in her childhood, but had forgotten it.
I have often turned to travelling companions and told
them the month and place of their birth and have gener-
ally succeeded in gettmg their names. But in getting
names I usually begin with the number of syllables, place
the accent, get the initials, and then the M'hole name.
This mode of procedure would lay me open to the charge
of " fishing," and my owix experience has shown me that
where the " subject " was naturally very secretive, I have
depended upon clues received m this way. With a good
" subject " however this is not necessary, and the name
generally comes to me immediately.
In 1897 I was introduced to a gentleman at the Savoy
Hotel in San Francisco. His wife wished me to try and
get his middle name. Upon taking his hand and closing
my eyes I saw a large P and thought of an old friend
whose name was Pettigrew. I told the gentleman that
his middle name was Pettigrew, and was not surprised to
have my guess confirmed. It is an interesting fact that
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 69
the names of friends often helj) me to get the names of
strangers.
A few weeks ago the local telegraph operator asked me
to tell him the names of his father and mother. The
operator's name is Patteson. I took his hand, and
immediately thought of a family of Pattersons whom I had
known in girlhood. The head of the house was named
WilUam and his wife was named Jane. I accordingly told
the operator that his father's name was William and his
mother's name was either Jane or Jenney, to which he
assented. (I add his testimony below.) These coin-
cidences are of so frequent an occurrence that they have
ceased to astonish me.
As to the sources of my impressions, I will say that
I fully believe telepathy accounts for many but not all.
I find that so constant a practice has developed my powers
of observation and induction so that I have grown to
depend upon them more and more. Reading of mdividual
character dra^vn from a general Itnowledge of the type
represented has always been a great aid to me. Moreover
I beheve that the " fishing " process may become so
subtile and so habitual, that, coupled mth a good observa-
tion and powers of rapid induction, it may be used
unconsciously. And I have found that the majority of
people are obhvious of those slight clues which they
invariably give me.
A middle-aged woman, having a South German accent,
came to me at a Church Fair where I had a booth.
I noticed that she looked like a Luxemberg woman I had
kno^vn in Europe, that she smelled sUghtly of carbohc acid,
and that she had the assured air of one who earns her
Uving. I also noted the mevitable marks of worry on her
comitenance.
I told her that she was born m Luxemberg, was a
widow, a professional supportmg two daughters, one an
invalid, and that she had been brought up in the Catholic
faith, to all of which she gave a wondering assent. Why
she should have had two children instead of three I don't
know, but all the rest was arrived at by observation and
induction.
70 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
A short time prior to Feb. 1893 I had some heart
trouble, but with that exception I have always had the
best of health. When a girl I was often followed on the
street by both men and women who later told me that
they could not help it. And once at a theatre I was
admiring a lady's gown through my opera glasses. A few
moments later the lady in question came to where I was
seated and said that she was dominated by an impulse
that she could not exislain.
Medora C. Adam.
Messrs. J. C. Chase and Patteson corroborate ]\Irs. Adam's
account :
I remember the episode related above by Mrs. Adam.
During the war with Spain we were watching the troops
from a neighbor's steps. My aunt told me that she had
an impression regarding a woman just below her, and
thought her name was Smith and that she was born in
Dumfries. I asked the woman referred to and verified my
aunt's impression. I do not thmk it possible that Mrs.
Adam could have been acquainted with these facts.
J. C. Chase.
Mrs. Adam told me that my father's name was William
and my mother's name was Jenney, which was true. As
Mrs. Adam is a stranger to me it would have been im-
possible for her to have learned these facts in any way.
Lewis W. Patteson.
The next case (M.Cl. 96, Journal, Vol. VIII., p. 227), from
a member of the Society, was experimental, for the perci-
pient tried to get an impression about a particular fact,
but whether it was telepathic is doubtful. That the
impression may have been derived from knowledge
possessed subconsciously by the housekeeper, is not,
however, I think a strained hypothesis. We have several
cases of emergence of the whereabouts of a lost object
—
its position having probably been subconsciously noticed
by the dreamer at the time of the loss, but never con-
sciously known. (See Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 362-404 ;
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 71
also Journal, Vol. X., p. 30, and Vol. IX. p. 14.) For a
case parallel to the present one, in that the finder was
not the loser of the object, but one who had helped
hi a futile search for it, see Proceedings, Vol. XI., p. 397.
But though telepathy from the housekeeper seems to me
a plausible hypothesis, others may prefer to suppose
either subconscious memory or clairvoyance in the perci-
pient himself. Unlike the cases of finding lost objects
just referred to, this experience appears to have been a
waking one like that recounted. Proceedings, Vol. XL,
p. 116, which suggested the exj)eriment.
(M. CI. 96.)
The Editor of the S.P.R. Journal.
8, Jasper Road, S.E., January \lth, 1898.
Dear Sir,—On the 15th of this month my housekeeper
lost my latch key. She used it m the forenoon of that
day for coming mto the house, and missed it before she
had occasion to go out again. Havmg searched for it in
vain the best part of yesterday, she came to the conclusion
tliat when she entered the house she must have left it in
the lock and that it had been carried off by a tramp.
I looked myself for the key in every likely place, and in
its absence thought my housekeeper's conclusion was
probably the right one. Last night I read the account in
Vol. XI. Proceedings S.P.R. , of the lady who lost a book
which was afterwards fomid on " the blue room bed."
I said to myseK "I wish I could find that key." "Where
is it ?
" I asked my sublimmal self, and the good
Anthony, the patron saint of the Lost Property Office
—
put these words mto my head :
" It's in the kitchen table
drawer." At breakfast this mornmg my housekeeper said
she had not slept all night from worrymg about that latch
key. I remarked that I had dreamt it was in the kitchen
table drawer. Oh no, sir," she replied. " I've looked
there and everywhere." I then went mto the kitchen with
her and opened the table drawer—and there found the key.
My housekeeper was certainly as astonished as myself, and
admitted that she hadn't looked in that particular drawer
72 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
for it as she had never j^ut it there before. She supposes
that in the present mstance the drawer must have been a
Httle open when she put her parcels on the table, and that
the key at the same moment fell from her hand into it.
—
Yours faithfully,
D. H. Wilson.
We wrote to Mr. Wilson for additional information ; he
replies as follows :
—
8, Jasper Road, S.E., January 2'ird, 1898.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your inquiries about the lost
latch key incident :
1. I have never put the key m the kitchen table drawer.
2. The key is practically for the use of the housekeeper.
There is but one latch key, and she keeps it. She is
alone in the house all day, and requires it to let herself
in when she goes shopping. She goes to her home at
night and takes the key with her. Very rarely I ask her
to leave the key with me when she is leaving. On
Saturday last she missed the key when she was on the
point of going home at night. She at once told me of it.
I said " When did you have it last ?
" and she rephed
" To let myself in at about midday, and haven't been out
since, and no one has been into the house." I said "It
must be m the house, have a good look for it to-morrow."
The next day she looked for it " everywhere,"—excejiting
of course the right place. She says she never jDuts it in
any drawer. She usually puts it m. her pocket ; occasion-
ally she puts it on the kitchen table or dresser whilst she
is disposing of her parcels. When she told me on Sunday
that she couldn't find the key, I went mto the kitchen to
look for it. I cast my eyes over the two dressers, on the
hooks on theni, and on nails in the walls, and on the
mats ; but I did not look into any drawer. It is very
probable that the housekeeper had rested the key on the
table, intending to place it at once in her j)ocket. For-
gettmg it, she may have later on swept it uito the open
drawer. I had httle doubt on Sunday night that the key
Lxxxvi.] ExjJerimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 73
had been left in the door at midday on Saturday, and had
been carried off by some tramp or mischievous boy, and
so thought my housekeeper.—Yours faithfully,
D. H. Wilson.
I have read Mr. Wilson's accomit of the key and say it
is quite correct.
(Signed) Jane Bkiggs.
There are two cases which have not, I think, been
published, in which the impression emerges through motor
automatism—in one of them through table tilting and in
the other through an ouija board. In the first (M. Aut.
104, Journal, Vol. XIII., 35) the experimenters were Mrs.
Salter (then Miss Verrall) and the Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Other table tiltings of theirs have been published in an
article by Mrs. Verrall in Proceedings, Vol. XXVI., and else-
where. In this case a message was tilted out apparently
intended to announce the death of Sir Michael Foster,
which, unknown to the experimenters, had occurred some
seventeen hours earlier.
(M. Aut. 104.)
Miss Verrall writes :
5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge,
February 5th, 1907.
On Tuesday, January 29th, 1907, at 6 p.m., Mr. Bay-
field and I endeavoured to obtain automatic " messages "
by means of table-tiltmg, as we have done on several
previous occasions. Since there was no other person m
the room, we were compelled to record the messages
ourselves, and consequently to follow them word by word ;
we were not, however, able for the most jDart to form any
expectation of what the next word was likely to be, and
our expectations, when we did form any, proved as often
as not incorrect. It is evident, therefore, that the general
tenour of the messages can have been little affected by our
conscious thoughts. The following statement was obtamed ;
the questions asked by us are in brackets.
llrs. Henry Sidgwich. [PAET
Fellow of lioyal Society. (What was his name ?) Potter.
(What about him ?) Died this afternoon. (What time ?
4.-JfK (Can you tell us more about him ?) Edditor (sic)
of Physiological Revieio. (Where did he hve ?) London.
(What address 1) Belsize Gardens, Kensington. (Was he
married ?) Yes. (Had he any children ?) Yes, five.
At the time this message conveyed nothing either to
Mr. Bayfield and me or to my father, Dr. Verrall, to whom
it was showi on Tuesday evening ; we considered it
indeed of so little value that we discouraged any further
communications on the subject, and tried to direct the
phenomena mto what we considered more " evidential
"
channels.
We thought no more of the matter until we heard on
Wecbxesday afternoon of the death of Sir Michael Foster,
which took place, as we learnt by subsequent enquiry,
early in the morning of Tuesday, January 29th. It was
not, however, publicly announced until Wechiesday, and
on Tuesday was knoAvn in Canibridge only to a very
small number of people, apparently four. That the news
did not spread is clearly shown by the fact that it did
not appear h\ any paj^er until Wednesday afternoon. The
names of those who are known to have received the news
on Tuesday have been told to us, and it apj)ears certain I
that neither Mr. Bayfield nor I can have come into any
sort of contact with them in the course of that day. If
that be so, the "message" obtained by us, unless it is
to be regarded as a mere coincidence, must have been
obtamed by some other than the normally recognised
means of communication.
With regard to the question of coincidence, it may be
noted that—settuig aside for the moment details given
in reply to leaditig questions, which will be considered
later—our message can be stated thus : A Fellow of the
Royal Society (a), by name Potter (6), and Editor of
the Physiological llenieio (c), has died this afternoon (d).
Of these statements, as applied to Sir Michael Foster,
(a) is correct ;
(c) is also correct, except for the discre-
pancyj . between ;^ri?eyie?« and Journal. "Sir M. Foster
founded and edited the Journal of Physiology.'' (See
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases 75
obituary notice iii the Times of -Jan. 31.) (6) is not
correct, but tliere is a close resemblance between the
two names, four out of the whole six letters bemg right
and m the right place. The description (c) is distuictive ;
there are only two people to whom it could up to the
present ever have been apjihed. Sir M. Foster and the
present editor, Professor J. N. Langley, whose name, it
will be seen, does not bear the least resemblance to
"Potter." {a), (6), and (c) combuied would appear there-
fore to pomt to one man only. Sir M. Foster, who is
stated to have died on Tuesday afternoon {d), and died
as a fact on Tuesday morning.
The further details given, such as the hour and place
of death, are almost all mcorrect, but it should be noticed
that they were given in reply to leadmg questions, and
it is my impression, based on previous experience, that
m the case of automatic messages statements so obtained
are seldom trustworthy. For instance, 43 Belsize Eoad,
Hampstead, is, as I afterwards remembered, an address
Avith which I was once famihar •
the address given m the
message of January 29th is evidently a variation on
this. On the other hand, the three statements numbered
above (a), (c), {d), were given either spontaneously or in
answer to questions so vague as to alford practically no
guidance or restriction to the answers, [b) —a partially
correct answer—was, I thmk, given in reply to a definite
question ; but on this point IVIr. Bayfield's recollections
dilfer from muie ; he thmks that the first question asked
was " What about him 1
"
Mr. Bayfield and I have sat for automatic phenomena
of this kuad on 17 occasions. This is the only time that
we have produced a statement that some one had recently
died. Helen de G. Vereall.
Statements follow in the Journal as to what Miss
Verrall and Mr. Bayfield were doing during the earlier
part of the day when tlie message was received, showing
that they had had no opportunity of hearing the news
by normal means. Also particulars about the death and
when it was known at Cambridge and a transcript of
76 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the note made at the time of the whole message tilted
by the table, are given. I omit these for brevity.
It is to be noted that in this case the " message "
was received by persons who had no special personal
interest in it, beyond that of any one connected with
the University in which Sir Michael Foster had for some
thirty-five years played so prominent a part. It belongs
therefore to a class of cases of which other instances
will be found below among spontaneous cases, where
it is diificult to point to a particular agent (see below
pp. 344 et seq.).
In the Ouija board case, the communicator apparently
purported to be the dead son of one of the three experi- 1
menters, and the " message " conveyed a trivial fact
about a living son which was both unknown to, and
unlikely to be guessed by, the sitters (M. Aut. 105,
Journal, Vol. XIII., pp. 211-217). The case came to us
from the late American Branch of the Society, having
been left among Dr. Hodgson's papers. I abbreviate
the narrative considerably.
(M. Aut. 105.)
Mrs. Booth writing on SejDtember 11, 1896, recounts how
she and a friend, Miss Loop, left Gi'eat Barrmgton on June 16
of that year to stay -with a friend, Mrs. Orcutt, at a place
about seven hours' journey away. Mrs. Orcutt had been
very kind to Mrs. Booth's dead son Le Roy in his last ilhicss,
but tlie ladies had apparently no conscious thought of com-
niunication from him wlicn on the evening of June 18 they
sat tlown to amuse themselves with the Ouija board. Mrs.
Orcutt and Miss Loop had their hands on the board, which
at once moved rapidly, pointing to letters, but apparently
at random and so fast that they could not follow it. How-
ever, Mrs. Booth got a pencil and paper and put down the
letters indicated as well as she could, but without deciphering
what was said till the end of the first paragraph. At that
pomt Miss Loop wished to stop, but Mrs. Orcutt caught
her name and thought somethmg might be coming. So they
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 11
started again, and then caught the words of the last paragraph
as they came out. The following is a copy of what Mrs.
Booth noted :
Yes - GUIDE - u-s-e-jw i-fc-h|-e-f-e-r-e-
y I
e-f-w-l-i - (m) - s- f- h- a- r- l- e- s- c- bo-o
-t-h-i-s-j-ii-s-t-gi-v-e-n-p-i-tt-s-f-i
-e-l-d-a-i-s-i-t-d-i-d-y-o-u-k-n-o-w
-i - t - o r -n-o-t -i-f -y-o-u-w-a-n-t-t-o-
y - (to) -r-o-y-a-m-p-u-t-o-rrc-u-t-t
Roy I
i-s I
- d- e- a- d | -h-e |
- i- s |-g-l-a-d
|
-y-o-u|-a-r-e|-li-e-r-e|-w-i-t-h|-M-r-s
-o-r-c-u-t-t|-l|-wi-s~h|-i- | c-o-u-l-d|
b-e|-t-h-e-r-e|-t-oo-|w-i-t-h-|y-o-u-
She tells us that a letter in brackets means that it was
doubtful. If we adopt her suggestion that " in the word
Charles, the c, which should come first, is placed after the
harles—as if it were a correction " we fiiid m the middle of
the first incoherent paragraph,
" Charles Booth is just given Pittsfield a [v]isit, did you
know it or not."
None of the ladies had any reason to think that Mrs. Booth's
son Charles, who had remained at home at Great Barrington,
would have \'isited Pittsfield, and they thought it " not at
all hkely to be true." However, on returning home a few
days later Mrs. Booth foimd that, as a matter of fact, Mr.
Charles Booth had been over to Pittsfield on business on the
afternoon of Monday, Jmie 16, after she left home.
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's request, the written corroboration
of Mrs. Orcutt, Miss Loop, and Mr. Booth was given.
This concludes the semi-experimental telepathic cases in
which the percipient is the experimenter.
§ 3. Semi-experimental Cases. Agent Experimenting.
Of cases in which the agent experiments we have in
the collection six—two in which the agent appears
to the percipient, and four in which the agent influences
the percipient from a distance. Of the four latter, one
is a case of hypnotisation at a distance, described in the
78 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
coiirse of an article by Professor Alexander of Rio de
Janeiro, entitled " Supernormal Phenomena observed during
Hypnotic Treatment by Dr. Alfredo Barcellos of Rio
de Janeiro." Dr. Barcellos was in the habit of vising
hypnotism for curative purposes, and besides the hypno-
tisation of his patient E. from a distance, the article
includes instances of telepathic clairvoyance and pre-
monition exhibited by another patient. I will here
content myself with referring to the article, which is
printed in the Journal, Vol. VIII., pp. 88-95 and 99-116.
The case of hypnotisation at a distance will be found
in the first part of the article, with some confirmatory
evidence in the second part.
I will quote next two experiments in which a lady
succeeded in telepathically inducing a friend to come
to her. They are included under L. 996, Journal, Vol.
VII., p. 193, and came to us through the late American
Branch of tlic Society. It is much to be regretted that
no note was made of either experiment before its success
was known.
(L. 996.)
The agent, Mrs. Lee, Asrites :
Shrewsbury, Mass., December lih, 1891.
An interesting exjoeriment I tried last winter. A friend
of sensitive temperament occupied a room (in a foreign
country) next my own. The connecting door between the
two was closed. The lady was witing (as she afterwards
told me). Wishing to see her, I intended to go to her,
but as I was comfortably resting on the lounge, I met
the recalcitrant disposition to move with the mental
question, " How long will we be slaves to matter, time
and space ?
" Whereupon it occurred to me to exert a
strong mental effort instead of a sUght physical one. In
about five minutes it proved successful ! I heard steps
approaching the door. To my summons in response to
her rap, she opened the door, " Did you call me ? I was
mider the impression that you did, but was not sure
ixxxvi.J Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 79
I heard you." I explained. My friend replied that she
was conscious of me a moment or two before she put
down her pen to come to me.
Mary Holland Lee.
Li answer to Dr. Hodgson's request for a corroborative
statement from the lady on whom the experiment was tried,
Mrs. Lee wrote :
August 22nd, 1893.
The answer to your letter I delayed until I heard from
IVIiss S. I wrote to her to make a statement of the
telepathic experiment between us when at Mentone, France.
I enclose her letter.
The letter enclosed was as follows :
Dear Mrs. Lee,—I do remember the time of which
you speak, when we were in Mentone, and you drew me
to you by a httle mental telepathy. I think I was
writing to E. D. in my room, which adjoined yours.
Suddenly my train of thought was broken into by a
feeling that I must go to you. I felt that you needed
me for something, without stopping to think what that
something might be. But I Imew that some mvisible
power had hold of me, callmg me. I then stepped to
your door, and asked you if you had spoken or if you
wanted anything, and you immediately told me that it
was but an experiment on your part to prove the power
of mmd over matter. It was certainly successfid that
time and has been at other times, when we have been
separated by miles of distance.
(Signed) E S ,
[full name given].
No details were given as to the other experiments referred
to by Miss S., but a similar experiment tried by Mrs. Lee
in the case of another friend, Mrs. Chenoweth, was related
by the latter in the Medico-Legal Journal, Vol. L, No. 3,
Jmie, 1893, as follows :
A lady whom I shall call Mrs. L., my friend since my
own girlhood, and, with myself, a member of the American
80 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Branch of the London Society for Psychical Research,
had a trifimg experiment in telepathy with me in the
month of August, 1892, which was so simple and successful
that it seems worth telhng.
We spent the summer in a charming New England
village ; I living near the top of a long hill, and she half
way down, the houses of both facing ujion the one broad
avenue which makes the main street of the village.
We saw one another daily, but on the day in August
above referred to, the date of which is mislaid, we had
passed hours together, and parted near six o'clock iii the
afternoon, when I went home to tea, averring laughmgly
at parting that it could not be promised when T should
come again, since we could surely think of nothing more
to say to one another for days.
At nine o'clock that evenmg I found my thoughts turn-
ing \\ith strange persistence toward Mrs. L. It seemed
to me that she was in need of me, and I felt impelled to
go to her. In vain I argued that if it were a matter
of importance she would come to me, or send for me.
The silent call continued.
After the laj^se of haH-an-hour I turned to a friend,
and asked if she felt able to waUt down to Mrs. L.'s
with me, reluctantly askuig, as she Avas suffering somewhat
from a lame foot. She was mcredulous, and rejjeated
to me my own assertion that I probably should not go
do\\'n there agam withm a week. At last I said emphati-
call3^ " It is, indeed, very strange, but I can no longer
resist the mcLuiation to go and see if anything is wrong
with m-s. L."
My friend accompanied me, with some effort. It was
now half-past nine o'clock. We found Mrs. L. sitting
on the piazza alone, in the moonlight.
She cried out to me delightedly upon hearing my
footsteps ; "I have spent full half-an-hour callmg to you
to come." C. Van D. Chenoweth.
Mrs. Lee adds :
This uistance occurred as herein stated, verbatim et
lilemiini. Mrs. Mary Holland Lee.
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 81
The lady who accompanied Mrs. Chenoweth to ]\'Ii-s. Lee's
house on this occasion, writes to Dr. Hodgson :
July 25th, 1894.
I perfectly recall the cii-cumstance referred to in the
httle sketches sent you by IVIi's. Chenoweth and Mrs. Lee.
I Avalked down A\dth Mrs. Chenoweth to IVIrs. Lee's house
and heard Mrs. Lee say that she had spent half-an-hour
in " wiUing " the visit.
In connexion with these experiments of Mrs. Lee's must
be mentioned a " Diary of Telepathic Impressions
"
printed in the Journal, Vol. VII., pp. 299-306 and 311-319.
It is the telepathic diary for the year 1894 of a certain
Mrs. S. It came to us through Dr. Thomas Duke of
Rugby, who was her medical attendant, and who assured
us that every word she has written may be depended
on. A good many of the impressions are spontaneous
ones, received by Mrs. S., about what other people are
thinking or doing—generally in comiexion with herself.
But a great many attempts by herself to influence other
people at a distance—especially Dr. Duke—to come to
her, or send things, or do something, are recorded. These
attempts sometimes failed, as appears from the diary,
but much more often succeeded. The incidents are
almost all of a trivial character, and almost any one
of the coincidences, taken alone, might be explained as
the result of chance, or lucky guessing, or common
associations of ideas. The weight of the record lies in
the great number of coincidences—a number which cer-
tainly seems far beyond what is probable unless telepathy
was at work. One could wish that more corroboration
had been possilile, but there is some. I do not reproduce
the diary here because of its length, but it is, I think,
a record of very considerable importance.
Experiments in which the agent appears to the per-
cipient are of course of great interest on account of their
analogy to spontaneous apparitions at the time of the death,
or of a crisis in the liie, of the agent. Accounts of
82 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
a few such cases were printed in the Journal in the
'eighties and 'nineties (since then none have been received
by the Society), bnt the best of them are pubhshed
in Proceedings or the books named above. The two
that remain are neither of them very satisfactorily re-
corded, while the first also suffers from the wealmess
that agent and j)ercipient were in the same room. Never-
theless they are both of considerable interest and worth
quoting.
It will be observed that in the first case (L. 851,
Journal, Vol. IV., p. 323) the agent did not try to appear
to the percipient ; the aj)parition was the result of his
trying to make her think of him. In this it resembles
the case of Baron von Schrenck Notzing (see Journal,
Vol. III., J).
307, and Podniore's book). The account of
the case comes to us through the late American Branch.
I abbreviate it somewhat.
(L. 851.)
The a;jent, Mr. Warner, wites :
242 W. 4th Street, Cincinnati,
Ohio, November 14, 1887.
About three years ago, or less, my brother, in his
letter to me, endeavoured to interest me in some pheno-
mena which had come under his observation. . . . My
emjjloymeut is that of " book pressman," running two large
book presses (Adams) pruitiug school books. The lady
[Miss Mallou] is one of tAvo female "feeders" directly
under my charge, one feeder for each press. She has
held that position for the last four or five years. She
is about forty -five years old and intelHgent, right-minded,
and Idnd-hearted, morally above suspicion.
One of the experiments which my brother had suggested
for me to try to satisfy myself was to try what the
effect might be of looking at and thinldng of a person
at the same time. This is the history of the first experi.
ment.
Date, early March, 1886 ; time of day, middle of fore-
noon : place, press room. Both of my presses stopped
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases.
at the time and the lady sifctmg with her back turned
toward me, at a distance of 15 feet, myself engaged on
the second press, in inspecting and carrying away a heap
of printed paper, she reading the fashion column of a
newspaper (as I afterwards learned). Suddenly the
idea occurred to me, "Why not try that experiment
now ? " Instantly I turned toward her, concentrating
my look upon the centre of the back of her head and
mentally calling her first name. I remained in that
position for five or six seconds, then turned to my work,
thmking that experiment a failure, as I saw no signs
otherwise. Between 25 and 30 minutes (by the clock)
afterwards, she arose, and coming toward me with a
hesitating step and a perplexed half smile on her face,
said, " Warner, were you trying to make me look at
you a while ago?" "Well, how long ago?" said I.
"About half an hour ago," said she. "Perhaps I Avas,"
said I. "How did I appear to you?" " Well," said
she, " I wasn't much interested in what I was reading,
and all at once the letters seemed to rmi togetiier, and
your form and face appeared in a A\avering, unsteady
way, just to the left, in front of me. You had a smile
on your face, a piece of waste paper in each hand, and
your arm seemed to be resting on a table or somethmg."
This was an equal surprise to both of us at the time,
although since then I have verified it Avith somewhat
similar experiments upon other ladies and repeatedly
Avith this one.
Later Mr. Warner adds :
The description Avhich Miss Mallou gave of my attitude
. . Avas in most exact accord Avith the actual facts.
Very many times since then she has actually seen me
without use of the eyes, while in her vicinity, and when
my attention Avas not specially turned toAvards her ;
at
other times, at my will, she would " sense " me that
I was looking at her by a perception as of a flood of
light coming over her eyes ....
In making this experiment I only hoped to call her
attention, by causing her to feel me or my iirfluence,
84 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
The projection of my personal ap])earance was an equal
astonishment to us both. ... In reply to your question
.... I have . . . not, so far, to my Imowledge, succeeded
in projecting my personal appearance on any other subject
than Miss Mallou.
Miss Mallou, having seen Mr. Warner's account, writes on
November 30, 1887 :
I do not think it necessary to write more, only to say
that Avhat he has written is correct, and I could not
explain more fully than he has done. . . .
She adds on December 16, 1887 :
Li answer to your questions of the 8th, I can only
say I have always tliought what I have seen has been
clairvoyantly. ... I have alwaj's (it seems to me) had
this ]iower of seeing [hallucinatory figures], but when
I have told things I have seen, I have been laughed
at and told it was my imagination. ... I think the
reason I did not turn and look at IVIr. Warner was, I
was annoyed, I felt he was looking at me, and when
I saw the form come roimd from my left side (I was
leaning with left arm on window sill) I did not know
Avliat to think or do, so I said to myself, " I won't turn,
or let him know anythuag about this," but the more
I thought, I was annoyed, and to satisfy myself (or, as
he says, woman's curiosity) I asked him if he had been
trying any experiments on me, and told him why I
thought he had been.
Lizzie A. Mallou.
The other similar case (L. 1076, Journal, Vol. VII.,
p. 250) would probably have been as good as any we
have if only a record had been made of the experiences
at the time. As it is, we depend on memory after
several years. We owe the case to the same Mr. L. C.
Powlcs who sent las the gorilla case (L. 1208) described
above, p. 50. He was personally acquainted with all
the persons concerned. I partly abbreviate the account.
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 85
(L. 1076,)
The percipient, Mrs. E., wrote on February 12, 1896 :
Though unable to give the date of these strange incidents
which I have experienced, yet I will try and be as exact
as possible in my relation. I have not, I think, forgotten
any detail, for all is still impressed very vividly upon
my memory.
Mrs. E. then describes a disturbed night experienced by
herseK and her daughter Mrs. A., and unexplamed bell ringing
heard by a maid, and continues :
On the Sunday evening after this, some friends were
I supping with me (my daughter had returned home), and
before we had finished Mr. Rose came in. He drew
a chair to the table and my son said, " Well, Rose, what
have you been doing lately ?
" His reply startled me,
for he answered, " My last effort has been trying to send
my '
spook ' here." I asked him to explain what he
meant and then he told me about it. It was the first
time I had lieard that such a thmg was possible, and
I then told him of the rmging of the bell on that same
evening.
This subject was not discussed again by us as far as
I can recollect, nor did it impress me particularly ; and
some weeks passed, when I was struck down with a bad
attack of influenza, and again my daughter came to nurse me.
I had quite recovered, but had not yet been out of
my room, but was to go into the drawing-room next
day. On this particular night, my daughter had gone
to the theatre and my son remained with me. He had
bid me good night about half-past ten and gone to his
room, and I lay reading, when suddenly a strange creepy
sensation came over me, and I felt my eyes drawn towards
the left hand side of the room. I felt I must look, and
there distinct against the curtain was a blue luminous mist.
I could not for some time move my eyes away, and
all the time I was really teiTified, for I thought it was
somethmg uncanny. I wished to call my son, but fought
dowii the feeling, knowing I should only ujiset him if
he thought I was nervous, and possibly they would think
86 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
I was going to be ill again. So I battled down my fears,
and making up ni}' mind it was all imagination, turned
round with my back to this misty light and continued
my book. Soon the feehng of fear passed away ; but
all desire for sleep had also gone, and for a long time I lay
reading,—when again quite suddenly came the dread and
the feeling of awe.
This time I was impelled to cast my eyes doAvnward to
the side of my bed, and there, creeping upwards towards
me, was the same blue lummous mist. I was too terrified
to move, and remember keeping my book straight up
before my face as though to ward off a blow, at the
same time exerting all my strength of will and determina-
tion not to be afraid,—when suddenly, as if with a jerk,
above the top of my book came the brow and eyes
of Mr. Rose. In an mstant all fear left me. I dropped
my book with an exclamation not complimentary, for
then I laiew that Mr. Rose had been trjdng the same
thing again. Li one moment mist and face were gone.
Next morning I told my daughter, and she said she
had had the same restless night (though sleeping in
another room) as when the bells rang and we had both
felt as if something uncanny were in the room.
That day Mr. Rose came to see me, and before telling
him anything of my experience, I asked him what he
had been doing the night before. His answer was,
" I went to my room early and concentrated all my
thoughts in trying to send my astral body here."
I then repeated to him what I have written here, and
Mr. Rose promised he would not experiment on me
again, as it made me nervous.
An independent account by Mrs. A. Avritten about a week
earlier corroborates the main points in this narrative. Mrs. A.
thought the events had occurred two or three years ago.
The agent's account of his side of the incident is contained
in a letter to Mr. Powles, as follows :
4 Cromwell Crescent, S.W. January I8th, 1896.
Dear Mr. Powles,—The evidence I have to give in
the case of " spirit jirojection " is A^ery little by itself ;
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Semi-Experimental Cases. 87
but as you have heard the story and will have the
evidence of Mrs. E. and Mrs. A., I shall confine myself
to that which comes withiii my own Imowledge. As an
author (having written several novels) I am, of course,
somewhat imaginative, though I inchne rather to the
reahstic than to the romantic school. I have also read
and taken much uiterest in so-called occult phenomena.
I should also mention that I had mesmerised Mjs. E.
\vith more or less success on several occasions before
makmg the experiment I am gomg to relate.
Having read of cases of spirit projection, I resolved,
Avithout mentioning the fact to any one, to endeavour
to send my astral body to Mrs. E. It was about 1891
or 1892, though my memory for dates is so bad that
I can't be certain as to the time. This will no doubt
be fixed by others. I sat in my bedroom about half past
twelve or one o'clock and fixed my will upon the enter-
prise I had been considering. I carefully imagmed myself
gomg down the steps of this house, walldiig along the
streets, arriving at S. -street, mounting to Mrs. E.'s flat
and going to her drawing-room and bedroom. I then
went to bed \\ith my mmd fixed upon the visit I wished
to make, and soon fell asleep.
The next evening I called on Mrs. E., and found her
with Mr. and Mrs. A. and some other persons just finishmg
dinner. I asked her if anything unusual had occurred
on the previous night. She and Mrs. A. told me they
had been disturbed, that the servant had heard a bell
rmg and had come to them in the night, etc., etc. ; but
I here leave the narrative to them, only mentioning that
I believe it was an electric bell which the servant heard.
The next night I repeated the experiment, and when
I saw them agam, they told me of its success and begged
me never to repeat it, as both Mrs. A. and Mrs. E. had
been very much frightened,—the former by the feehng
that some one was in the rooni, and the latter by actually
seemg the upx^er ])art of my face over the top of a book
which she was readmg. I personally was not m any way
conscious of the success of my attempt, for, so far as I
remember, I did not even dream about any of the family.
88 Mrs. Henry Sidgwicl'. [part
I have since tried this experiment with other i^eople, but
without success. I have never again tried it with Mxs. E.
nor with her daughter.
I am afraid this is a very inconclusive narrative when
taken by itself, but it is all that is absolutely within
my own loiowledge. When, however, it is taken in
connection with what the two ladies felt and saw, it is
not without interest. —Yours suic(^re]y,
Fred. W. Rose.
In answer to some questions from Mi'. Powles, Mx. Rose
wrote :
January 2lst, 1896.
In reply to your note, I did not after my first experi-
ment give notice that I intended to make another. I
had tried to mesmerise Mrs. A. when she suffered from
neuralgia, but without success. I feel sure I did not
try lier more than twice, and I had not done so for a
long time before the experiments. I did not try hyp-
notism upon any other occupant of the house.
In answer to our further enquiries about the interval between
the two experiments, Mr. Rose explained that by the phrase
—
" The next night I repeated the experiment "
—he did not mean
that the two experiments occurred on coiisecutive nights. He
says, " I can't now rememl)er what time elapsed between the
two experiments, but I think it was some two or three
weeks."
Siiice writing his account, Mr. Rose made two more attempts
to appear to Mrs. E., who was in the south of France at the
time. Mrs. E. tells us that on two nights during this period
she was wakened suddenly by the feehng that some one
Avas in the room, and was much alarmed. On the second
occasion it occurred to her that Mr. Rose was jjerhaps trying
an exjieriment on her. She wrote shortly after to ask him
if this was the case ; but unfortunately neither of them had
noted the dates, Mr. Rose feeling sure that when Mrs. E.
was in a part of France that was imlaiown to him, he would
not succeed. It is obvious, therefore, that no stress can be
laid on these later experiments, and Mr. Rose tells us that a
Lxxxvi.] Experimental and Serm-Exjyerimental Cases. 89
third trial, made on February 8th, 1896, was a complete
failure.
For tlie mode of development of the hallucination here
—a luminous mist seen first and then the figure—compare
Proceedings, Vol. X., p. 116 (No. 495-6) and other cases
in Gurney's book and elsewhere.
This concludes the experimental and semi-experimental
cases in our collection. Though they can hardly be
regarded as a representative group, because of the number
of telepathic experiments, especially series of experiments,
excluded as already published in Proceedings or in the
books mentioned, still those here put together exhibit
an interesting variety of experiment, and it is much to
be desired that their perusal may lead to more people
trying whetheii they cannot develop telepathic capacity
in one way or another. More experiments carefully
conducted, and well recorded, are greatly needed.
90 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
CHAPTER II.
Spontaneous Cases in which the Percipient's
Impression is not externalised.
Oe cases Avliere the percijjient receives, spontaneously and
apparently through telepathy, a sensation, an idea, an
emotion, an impulse to action, even a vision in the
mind's-eye of a scene, l)ut where the impression does
not externalise itself as a hallucination of sight, hear-
ing or toucli, there are some thirty-five in our
collection, of which five are dreams.^ As a whole the
class is not a strong one as evidence of telepathy, because
in it there is, as Gurney points out, a special danger
that (a) after the coincidence is realised the impression
may assvime in recollection a definiteness which it did
not possess in fact, and that (h) it may be less unusual
in the percipient's experience than he supposes, owing to
his forgetting cases where no coincidence was discovered.
The triviality or vagueness of the impressions in many
cases makes such tricks of memory more likely to occur
than they are in connexion with sensory hallucinations.
Nevertheless some at least of these non-hallucinatory
cases are interesting and suggestive.
§ 1. Paiu, Transferred.
I will begin with cases where in a way the impression
may be said to be externalised—cases of transference
of a sensation of pain, resembling some experimental
^ Dreams in wliich tliere is not an element of sensory hallucination
—
in wliich tlie dreamer does not seem to himself to see, hear', or feel
something outside himself, are rare, at least in this collection.
Lxxxvi.] Spontanediifs Cases : Iriipfession not Externalised. 91
cases (cf. Gurney's book, Ch. II., § 10). There are three
such cases. The first (L. 1157, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 79)
was sent to us by Sir Oliver Lodge, who remarks that it
comes " from a trained experimenter and observer, my
assistant, Mr. E. E. Robinson."
(L. 1157.)
The percipient writes :
Feenlea, Willow Avenue,
Edgbaston, December 16, 1905.
On Sunday morning, December 10, 1905, I was in bed
thinlfing of nothing iii particular. Mrs. R. was dressing.
I experienced an aching pam ui my tliundj, the kind of
paui that would be produced by a hole (made by some-
thmg runnmg m).
The paia was so distinct, and the sensation of having
a hole in the thumb so real, that I held up my thumb
to look for it. I fomid there Avas no such hole, and the
moment I realized this the pain went. Almost at the
same mstant Mrs. R. said to me : "I have a great diffi-
culty m dressing, my thumb is so pamful."
Two days before she had hurt her thumb by runnuig
a nail uito it. She mentioned the fact to me at the
time ; as she did not mention it again, the circumstance
had been completely forg(^tten by me. I certamly had
no idea of it at the time mentioned above.
E. E. ROBINSOK.
It is perhaps an evidential weakness in this case that
Mr. Robinson knew of Mrs. Robinson having hurt her
thumb, though there seems to have been nothing to
bring the circumstance to his mind at that particular
moment, except her sense at the moment of pain and
inconvenience, of which he had as he believes no normal
knowledge. This particular source of weakness is absent
in the following case so far as conscious knowledge is
concerned. It is an experience on the border-line between
sleeping and waking, and may have been a persistent
dream sensation. (L. 1172, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 284.)
92 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
(L. 1172.)
The lirsfc account of this case was sent by the jiercipient,
Mrs. Williams, to Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson, who for\\arded
it to us in a letter bearmg the postmark, Jmie 25th, 1908.
It was as follows :
Villa Bethell, Garmlsch, Bavaria.
You will be uitercsted in a rather curious coincidence (?)
which occurred yesterday.
Arthur and I had been travellmg nearly all day and
were tired at night and slept soundly. The moment I
M^oke I found myseli impressed with a singularly vivid
dream—not detailed, but very distinct. I thought I had
torn my finger nail across, and was so certain of it that
I examined it critically and was almost surprised to find
it as usual. While I was looliing at it Arthur said
—" I
tore my nail last night : got out of bed to see if I could
shut out the comuig light, and damaged my nail on the
shutter : it is so pamful."
I said
—" Did you speak, or say a word about it ?
"
He said " No, I was most anxious to make no noise, as
you were so tired (one reason why I was shutting out
the light) and I know I did not wake you."
I had no recollection of anything of any kind, but
fancied he might have let slip a suggestive word or two,
which ]3enctrated my consciousness without waking me,
but he declares he did not.
In re]ily to a request for further details and confirmatory
evidence Mrs. Williams wrote to us :
July 13/7;., 1908.
Last month my husband and I A\'ere travelling in
Bavaria, and I was very tired on reaching Garmisch, in
the Highlands.
I fell asleep directly we got into bed, and was conscious
of nothing until about 7 in the morning, when I found
myself earnestly examming my finger nail under the
conviction that I had hurt it. I was so sure of this that
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised . 93
I was intensely surpri ed that I could see no mark of
injury.
I said to my husband I have had such an extra-
ordiiiary impression that I had torn my finger nail, but
nothmg is wrong with it." To which he replied
—"Why, I
did hurt my nail in the night. I woke at about 4.30, and
seeing signs of daylight got up to try to close the outside
shutters, damaging my finger nail in the attempt." He
then showed me his nail which was torn in ratlier a
painful way.
I asked if he had called out, or spoken when he did it,
for though I remembered nothing, I thought it possible
a cry, or an exclamation might have penetrated to my
brain through my sleep. He was certain he made no
somid, being anxious not to wake me, and returned
to bed perfectly satisfied that he had not done so.
E. Baumer Williams.
Mr. Wilhams adds :
I confirm the above statement of facts. In tryhig to
close the shutters I was most careful to be verj'^^ quiet
in order not to disturb my wife. I even abstained from
lookmg for scissors to trim the broken nail lest I should
make a noise. Thoenton Aethitr Williams.
36 DoAvnsliire Hill, Hampstead.
The above two cases were recorded, one a few hovirs
and the other a few days after the experience, butYthe
evidence for telepathy would have been stronger if the
agent and percipient had been in different rooms and
the percipient thus cut off from possible normal indications
of the agent's sensations. In the next case (L. 1102,
Journal, Vol. VIII., p. 298) this condition is fulfilled, but,
on the other hand, nearly a year elapsed between experi-
ence and record. The case came to us through Professor
Harlow Gale of the University of Minnesota, who discussed
it with the percipient and the agent. I give it briefly.
Further details and additional evidence will be found
in the Journal.
94 Mrs. Henry Siclgwick.
(L. 1102.)
Mrs. Castle of Minneapolis, \^Titing in May, 1S96, says:
On the first day of last July (1895) while resting, late
in the afternooii, I suddenly expeiienced a constrictive
sensation in my throat, accompanied by a numbness,
which increased for some time, and finally becam-e so
distressing that I bathed and rubbed my throat several
times while dressing, soon after it began—usiiTg also
a mental treatment (in which I am a firm believer).
I could discover no cause within myself for such a sensa-
tion, A\hich was unlike anything T had ever experienced
before. It occurred to me that it might he due to some
influence outside of niyself, and I thought of my husband
. . . also of a fi'iend who was stopping with me at the
time.
Mr. (Jastle states :
On the afternoon of the first day of July, 1895, 1
unexj)ectedly had a-n o]jeratioji performed on my throat
by Dr. Bell. To allow fo)' the passing off of the effects of
the anaesthetic used in my throat he told me to remain
quiet a while after the oiJeration. But I thought I could
save time by sitting in the barber's chair, and so walked
about yards to a barber sho\i. There I was soon
seized with a terrible choking sensation which frightened
the barber and myself very greatly. I remained sittmg
there nearly an hour beft)re I coidd go on.
The two experiences appear to have coincided in time as
far as could be made out, and there certainly nuist have been
considerable points of resemblance between the two sensations ;
while the percipient's was sufficiently vivid to cause her to
apply remedial treatment.
These cases of transferred sensation should be compared
with a perhaps more striking spontaneous case in Gurney's
book. Chap. V., Case (17). And also with experiments in
transference of pains.
LXXXVi.J Spontaneoua Cases : lnhpression not Externalised. 95
§ 2. Phrases Transferred.
The cases to be next mentioned also resemble some
experimental cases—phrases or words being apparently
caught verbatim from the mind of a person who is in
the company of the percipient, and in most of the cases
in communication with him at the moment. The first
is L. 1163, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 120.
(L. 1163.)
The percipient, Mr. F. W. Caulfeild, writes :
Sydmonton, Haywards Heath, July 7, 1905.
In the autumn of 1903 my daughter and myself went
to visit an old friend of mine, a clergyman, who had
lately been appointed to a country hving on the banks
of the Thames, and whom I had not seen for many years.
My friend met us at the station in his pony carriage, and
while drivuig us to his house told us of an attempt
he had made to organise the charities of his own and
the neighbouring jjarishes. He said he had written to
a friend in an adjoining parish on the subject, and tluit
he, i.e. my friend, particularly objected to the practice,
when a poor man had met witli some loss, of sendmg
him round the neighbourhood with a signed ])etition to
collect money.
Suddenly an idea flashed on my mind A\'hich I remember
appeared to me rather smart and ^\'itty, and I said :
" After all, pigs are not immortal,"' meaning of course that
a poor man with a pig must expect that it may die
some time, and should lay his accoimt for that beforehand.
My friend said : Why tliat's just what I said in my
letter ; I said, '
Bveii pig^ are not immortal.'
Judging from the very unusual character of the phrase,
and from my own sensations at tlie time I used it, I
think it must have been directly suggested to my mmd.
Francis W. CIaulfeild.
P.8.—I ought to add that to the best of my memory
piigs had not been ]ireviously mentioned in our conversa-
tion ;
my thoughts had naturally turned to horses or coavs.
96 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
In answer to a request for corroboration, Miss Caulfeild
writes :
Sydmonton, Haywards Heath, July Wlk [1905J.
Li reply to your letter of July 10, which my father
has given me, it is difficult, after more than a year and
a half, to recall the incident clearly.
I reniember sitting beside our host who was driving,
and at the same time looking back every now and then
over his shoulder to speak to my father, who was sitting
on the back seat.
Our host was describing what a pitch the sendmg round
of begging petitions had come to m his parish, and my
father said quickly, " After all, even pigs are mortal."
Our host laughed, and, looking back at my father, said :
" How strange ; those were the very words I used in
my letter to . I said: 'Even 'pigs are mortal.""
I underline pigs, because I remember he laid stress on the
word. Dorothy Caitlfeild.
P.S.—I remember feeling a little injured that our host
did not laugh more heartily at my father's bon mot, which
of course was explained, as he had made it himseK before.
A little group of three cases is given in tiie Journal,
Vol. IV., pp. 341, 342 (L. 857, L. 858, L. 859). The first is
from Mrs. Barber, whose account of a similar incident
in which the same child was percipient was included in
Gurney's book, Chap. VI. (No. 39). She writes :
(L. 857.)
December 26, 1886.
Last week E. came to see me before I was u]), and I
Ijegan to speak to her about Avhat her Christmas money
should be spent ui, and when I said, " I'll tell you what
I've been thinking you'd like to do with your money . .
."
she burst m excitedly with, " / Ivnow ! I know what you're
going to say !
" " Do you," I said, amused. " What
makes you so sure?" "I. knoiv,'' she said, "it came
uito my mmd just now. You're going to say that I
mightj^spend it in buying toys to teach a class of Miss
Headdon's !
" (Precisely what I was gomg to say.)
Lxxxvi.] Sponianeous Cases : hnpression not Externalised. 97
N.B.—The child had keenly shared my interest in Miss
Headdon's work, but as the thought with respect to the
money had been an entirely new one to me, which I -was
taking the first ojjportunity of commmiicatuig to her, it
was impossible that she could have heard of it in any
way. . . . Caboline Barber.
The second case was received from Mrs. H. through
the American Branch of. the Society. Dr. Hodgson was
well acquainted with Mr. and Mrs. H. She writes :
(L. 858.)
March 30th, 1889.
Mr. H. came home one afternoon [recently], and said
to me, " I saw MulHken to-day (I do not loiow him and
his name meant nothing), and whom do you think he
has seen? " I replied instantly, ''Edward S. R."' Mr. H.
looked astonished and asked me how I knew ? —if I knew
Mulhken ? —if I knew he had been in Brazil ? I said,
"No," that I did not know why I said it, the name
came to my lips without conscious thought. He said it
was very strange, but Mi". Mulliken had been in Brazil
;
had been telling him of his travels, and of meetmg Mr. R.
E. S. H.
G. S. H.
The third case also came through the American Branch,
and the narrator, Mrs. D., thought it had liapjjened " about
three years ago." She was talking with a friend who
had passed the winter in a very lonely ranche :
(L. 859.)
I asked her if anything strange or startling had happened
to her in that wild place. " Yes," she said, " I kiUed a
big rattlesnake with twelve rattles, and you can't guess
what I did it with." "A flat, iron" was my instant
answer, and my surprise was as great as hers Avhen she
told me I was right. The snake was near the house, and
she caught up a flat-iron which was placed against the
door to keep it open, and throwing it at the snake nearly
cut his head off.
98 Mrs. Henry Sidgwkk. [part
Mi-s. D. adds on January 3rcl, 1889 :
You ask if I had ever previously thought of a flat-iron
as an instrument of attack upon anytliiiig obnoxious.
When a j^oung girl—at least fifty years ago—I had a
great fear of burglars, and often threatened to kee]3 a
flat-iron in my room, a string attached to it, that
could be dro])ped upon the head of any burglar who
should pass through the front entry of the house and
be accommodating enough to stand still in the right spot
and let me carry out my pet jalan of defence. I did not
consciously remember this when I answered my friend's
question so promptly, but shortly after it all came back
to me, and my brother reminded nie of it the other
day. . . . M. C!. D.
It seems iJrobable here that the subconscious association
of ideas at least facilitated the true impression, whether
telepathy operated or not. But it is unlikely that there
was any such association of ideas in the following case
(L. 898, Journal, Vol. V., p. 191) when a boy appeared to
catch an uniisnal translation of a Greek word from his
teacher's mind. An account of the incident first appeared
in the Boston, Evening Transcript aboixt May, 1890, on
the day after it occurred, so the correspondent stated.
This account is printed in the Journal. In reply to Dr.
Hodgson's encpiiries, the teacher, Mr. Wm. Nichols, wrote
on April 9th, 1891 :
(L. 898.)
A boy who was only fair in Greek, but who had a
good command of English, was translating ; as he came
to " jierieidon " [in the passage before him, viz. Herodotus
VI. 1081 it occurred to me that " stand by idle " would
here be a good rendering of the ^vord ; I had never known
of its being so rendered before. The boy hesitated for an
instant at the word, and I loolced at him and he at
once went on, "did not stand by idle."' It seemed to
me a singular coincidence.
With these cases may be compared the following, in
which words the agent had read a few hours before
eiaerge in sleep (L. 1196, Journal, Vol. XVI., p. 70). The
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 99
case was sent through an Associate of the Society, with
names and addresses, but these are by request withheld
from pubUcation. The first account dated February 3rd,
1913, came to us from the agent's mother—Mrs. Rooke
(pseudonym). This I omit. The agent writes :
(L. 1196.)
February 10, 1913.
On the afternoon of Sunday, January 19th, 1913, I was
reading Tristram of Blent. My wife was in and out
of the room a good deal, but I did not caU her attention
to any passage in the book. I was specially struck by
the followmg passage, and read it over more than once,
pausing for a time in my reading, bub saying nothing :
"If we chvide humanity mto those who do thmgs and
those who have to get out of the way when they are
being done, Gainsborough belonged to the latter class."
I remember that my w\ie came mto the room while my
attention was fixed on this passage.
Some hours later, in the evening, we were both readmg,
when my wife said, suddenly, that she felt very sleejiy,
speaking m a drowsy tone, and almost immediately she
dropped off mto a deep sleep. She did not wake up for
about two hours. After she had been asleep for some
time, she began to speak with the subdued eagerness
ordinary in such cases, saying, " they are trying . . . they
are trymg," but apparently being unable to say more.
I leaned forward (I was sitting about 10 feet away)
and said, in an ordmary tone, " Yes ? What are they
trying to do ?
" She answered at once, m the tone of
a person answering such a question :
" I'he people that
have to be got out of the way of." She then nuittered
a few syllables, and was silent until she awoke, I think
not less than an hour after. While she Avas speaking,
and just before and after, she was lying perfectly still
with her eyes closed and was certainly asleep.
The percipient writes :
February 10, 1913.
On Sunday, Jan. 19th, 1913, my husband and I were
reading. I was quite mterested in my book ;
suckle,dy
100 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I felt a strong desire for sleep. I had some difficulty
to keep awake long enough to explain to my husband
that I was obUged to go to sleep immediately—an unusual
thing for me to do.
I curled up on a sofa and knew nothing more until
about two hours later.
When I awoke my husband asked if I had read the
book he was reading. (He felt sure I could not have
done so, as it had only just been sent to the house.)
I had not read, or even heard of it.
He then told me that he had been struck by a certain
passage in his book and that in my sleep I repeated a
part of it, using almost the same words.
In reply to a further question, Mrs. Rooke writes :
February Uth, 1913.
In regard to the question you ask, as to whether my
son ever unconsciously reads or repeats aloud sentences
that he is particularly interested in, I can answer without
any hesitation that I have never Imown him to do so,
and I feel quite sure that he never does. My daughters
say the same, and that they could not imagine him doing
so ; it would be so mihke himself.
Compare also with the above cases one (L. 1192, Journal,
Vol. XV., p. 339) where Miss L. "Jones" (pseudonym),
suffering from concussion of the brain, seemed during
her illness to have constantly correct impressions of
thoughts in her sister's mind. . -
§ 3. Emotion Transferred.
There are two cases where, not an idea, but an emotion
appears to have been transferred. In the first a child
of six shared an entirely baseless anxiety felt by his
father. Most of us would probably be ready to admit
that emotions such as fear are easily caught by children
and animals, but generally, if telepathy has anything to
do with this, the fact is veiled by the presence of sensory
indications. The interest of the present case (L, 1186,
lxxx"st:.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 101
Journal, Vol. XV., p. 188) lies in the apparent impossi-
bility of any sensory indications having operated.^ The
case was sent to us by Mr. F. M. J. Stratton of Gonville
and Gains College, Cambridge, who writes in sending it :
(L. 1186.)
Nov. 20th, 1911.
Professor and Mrs. Newall, from whom I heard the
story, both assured me that the A\'ritten accomit (dated
November 10) agreed entirely with the story told them
when Dr. Hutchmson was visiting them on Oct. 14.
]VIr. Hutchinson writes :
St. Anke's, Lowestoft,
Nov. 10th, 1911.
Dear Mrs. Newall,
I forward you the few notes you Avish for, but I trust
you will forgive me for havmg been so long ui sendmg
them. I plead the usual excuse of overwork. |^
On the Idnd mvitation of Professor Newall to see the
Observatory at Cambridge, I decided to motor over from
Lowestoft on Saturday, 14th October.
On Friday—the day previous to the trip—I had an
unaccountable restless feelmg that some disaster would
take place on the journey. So strong did this feelmg
become that I decided to msure myself and car agamst
all risk before vmdertaking the trij). I had some difficulty
in effectmg this insurance, as the time was short ; ho\\ ever,
the agents were able to put the matter through for me,
and I had my pohcy complete by 8.30 p.m. the same
evening.
As I only had a very short time to spend in Cambridge,
I decided to start from my house at 5 o'clock m the
morning.
I awoke at 4.15 a.m., and immediately started to dress,
but before completmg my toilet I heard my son (a little
feUow of six years old) crying for me m a most piteous
manner.
1 It may be observed incidentally that the case is one of unfulfilled
premonition.
102 Mrs. Henry SidgiLncl-. [part
I went upstairs to see \\m\—as he sleeps m a room by
himself at the top of the house—and he immediately
threw his arms round my neck, hugging me tightly and
begging me not to undertake the journey. I told him
not to be foolish, as I should be back with him the next
day. I was unable to comfort him, so I brought him
down to his mother, and I imderstand from her that soon
after my dej^arture he Avent off to sleep.
I might state here that it was a most unusual thing
for the boy to wake up at that hour of the mornuig, nor
had he been told anything very much about my intended
trip.
As regards my journey to Cambridge and back, it was
entirely uneventful, and I am unable to account in any
way for the curious and ]5ersistent feehng I had that a
calamity of some kind would take place during my absence
from home.
I might ponit out that I have driven a motor-car for
over ten years and have never taken out an insurance
policy before, and would not have done so now except
for the above related facts.
During the past ten years I have driven all over England
and Scotland, and have never met with an accident, nor
had the same jieculiar apprehension before undertaldng
a journey.—Yours very sincerely,
Donald Hutchinson.
In reply to Mr. iStratton's enipiiries Mr. Hutchinson wrote
to him :
Nov. mil, 1911.
. . . With regard to your query re my son, I can say
xmhesitatmgly that he knew nothing whatever regarding
my forebodings, as I had been particularly careful not
even to mention them to my wife. . . .
Donald Hutchinson.
In the second case of what looks like transferred emotion
(L. 899, Journal, Vol. V., p. 192) the correspondence be-
tween the feelings of agent and percipient is less definite,
and can indeed hardly be said to amount to more than
mental disturbance in both, that of the percipient being
Lxxxvi.] Spoutcnieoiis Cases : Impression vot Externalised . 103
possibly caused hy normal observation of symptoms
of it in the agent. At the same time the ease suggests
that there may well be something more than observation
through the senses in producing our impressions of each
other. The record was sent to us by the percipient,
Mrs. Joseph Pfirshing of C^hicago. It is undated, but
was printed in the Journal about two years after the
occurrence. I will describe the case briefly.
(L. 899.)
The supposed agent, a stranger to the percipient, accom-
panied his family to an evening party at the percipient's
house on the evening on which he (the agent) knew that his
employers had discovered he was an embezzler. A week later
he committed suicide. His feehngs that evening can only
be conjectured. Hers (tlie percipient's) appear to have been
feehngs of miaccoimtable cUstress and rejiulsion m connexion
with the young man, and her mental distress continued more
or less till the suicide. Evidentially in this case everythmg
turns on tlie uniqueness of the percipient's sensations, and
of this it is ahnost impossible to judge. She says herself m
answer to enquiries :
" I have never had such a vivid sensation about a
person before. . . . Its reaUty Avas so quickly carried
out in the denouement—perhaj^s that is the reason it was
so strongly impressed upon me. I have all my life been
strongly attracted or strongly repelled by people."
With this case may be compared an experience described
by Miss Alice MacLellan of Bridgeport, Conn., U.S.A., in
the Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 173. It is Number VI. of
a series of experiences consisting of premonitory dreams
and others, recorded apparently in 1919. In this par-
ticular case she attempted in 1915 to read by palmistry
the hand of an old friend. It puzzled her, but finally
she said, " It's not like you at all ! Why you've got
the hand of a crook." A few years later he committed
suicide when he could no longer conceal his embezzle-
ments from estates of which he was trustee, embezzle-
104 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
ments which had been going on in 1915. She asks, " Did
I see into his mind, or did I read it in his hand ?
"
§ 4. Idea from Distant Agent.
In the cases so far dealt with in this chapter, the
agent and percipient have generally been together. In
the remaining cases they were separated. In the first
two, a definite thought in the agent's mind is reflected
in the percipient's and connected with the distant agent.
We received the first (L. 831, Journal, Vol. IV., p. 179)
from the Rev. A. T. Fryer, who wrote on April 19th, 1889 :
(L. 831.)
I know the two persons who have written the enclosed.
I have seen the envelopes and they bear the dates,
February 13th and February 15tli, 1889, posted January
31st and February 4th respectively, as shown by post
marks. I can voucli for the truth-telling capacities of
the percipient and her mother.
E. M.'s Narrative.
Very early on Simday morning, February 3rd, when
half asleep, half awake, I became vaguely conscious that
a gentleman I laaow Hving in America was trying to
influence me in some way. This feeling at once thoroughly
woke me up, and I seemed to know that Mr. was
thhiking of me at that time, and that he was sending
me a proposal.
Various circumstances made this most unlikely, one
bemg tlie fact that I believed him cither to be engaged,
or on the point of being engaged to an American lady.
So I tried to go to sleep again, and did all I could not
to think of the impression I had received. But it was
no use, a stronger will than mine ke23t forcuig my thoughts
to America, and I felt certain a letter was coming.
For 13 days and niglits tliis conviction seemed ever
present with me—try as I \vould not to dwell upon it.
Not even receiving on the 13th a letter from this very
gentleman, tellmg me that as I had refused to marry him
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 105
the previous autumn he had- at last fully made up his
mind to propose to an American girl, and to be married
very shortly—altered my conviction.
On February 15th I received the letter of proposal,
saying that at the last moment he could not propose
to the American, and would ask me once more. The
letter was Avritten late on Saturday evening, February 2nd
(allowing for difference m time between America and
England at the very time I had the impression that a
letter was being written). It was posted on the 4th.
My mother remembers my telling her of my impression
before I received the letter.
Statement fkom E. M.'s Mother.
I remember " E. M." showmg me a letter on February
13tli from a friend of hers (who is abroad), stating that
he was likely to x^ropose marriage to a young lady.
" E. M." then told me that previously, in the night of
February 3rd, whilst lying half asleep, she had a strong
impression that he was going to propose to her, though
from what he had before '\\ritten this seemed most unhkely,
but a letter received two days later proved that her
impression was right.
Answers from E. M. to Mr. Fryer's Questions.
1. Corroborative statement ? —I enclose my mother's.
I mentioned my presentiment to no one else excej^t to
you. I told my mother on February 13th, when I
received the first letter (which I showed her), that I had
a presentiment that a letter of proposal was on its way
to me from Mr. .
2. May I see the two envelojies ? —Envelopes enclosed.
The first letter was written January 31st, the second A^as
dated February 2nd, 11 p.m.
3. Have you ever had any similar experience ? —Yes, on
three occasions, but I cannot get them corroborated, as
my brother and the friends concerned object to answermg
questions on the subject. The first time was during
August, 1879. I was away from home, and was just
recovering from an illness. I awoke one night feeling
106 Mrs. Henry SidgivicJc. [part
certain that my only brother A\'as in a railway accident.
I immediately lighted a candle and looked at my watch
—eight minutes to 12—as I did so I felt that he was
unhurt, and that all danger was over. The next day
my brother unexpectedly arrived, and I found that he
had been in a slight railway accident the night before.
The accident took place a few minutes before midnight,
as he also had looked at his watch. The second time,
February 27th, 1885. A strong conviction that something
(I linew not what) utterly unexpected would arise on or
before May 21st that would cause unhappiness to two
people and entirely alter the course of their Uves. I
mentioned this a day or two after to the person chiefly
concerned, in the hope that Avhatever it was it might be
avei-ted. This person only laughed at it, and as late as
May 20t]i declared it could not come true—it was pure
imaghiation on my part. It came true on the 21st.
The third time, September, 188.5, that a great friend of
mine, of A\hom I liad not heard for some time, was
staying in a certain place in lodgings, and ^\-as at the
time very unhappy and worried. This also proved to
be true.
4. Can you say how long before February 3rd you had
heard from or of him |
tlie gentleman in America] ? —No
one had mentioned his name to me for ^^eeks, but I had
had a few lines from him during January.
5. Had you talked about him or read any letters from
or about him on or about the 1st or 2nd of February,
1889 ?—No.
6. Were you m ordinary health ? —Yes. I always have
more or less constant headache, and my headaches had
been very severe just before—but were better at the
time.
7. What initials ?~E. M. will do.
Li answer to an inquiry whether .she had ever had hallu-
cinations or impressions which were not veridical, " E. M."
writes :
I have never had any strong impression, hallucination, or
dream that has vnf come true—beyond one dream that
r,xxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Ivipression not ExternaUsed. 107
repeats itself about every year at macertain intervals.
I have had it five or six times.
I wake up dreaming that a man with red hair^^^and
a red beard is leaning over my bed A^ith a knife in his
hand. Sonnetimes he has hold of my shoulder. For
some minutes after I am awake I still seem to see and
feel him, his hot breath commg on my face. I try and
laiock his arm on one side, and it goes through him.
After about two minutes he gradually fades away. It is
always the same face, and I cannot—suice I first had the
dream about six years ago—concj^uer my horror of red-
headed men, though I have never seen any man hke the
man I see ; I have tried movmg my bed to another
part of the room, but the dream still comes.
The other case (L. 1213, Journal, Vol. XVIII., p. 56) of
a thought or wish api^arently transferred from a distant
agent comes to us through Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson, whose
sister was the percipient. Miss Dickinson writes :
(L. 1213.)
11 Edwaedes Square, W. 8.
{April 3, 1917.] ^
On Thursday, March 29th, 1917, I was upstairs at 8.30
a.m., and the front-door bell rang. I said to myself
that it nuist be my cousm, Harry Dicldnson, come to
tell me his mother ^^•as ill. When the maid came up a
few minutes later, I asked her A^hat the rmg at the
bell was. vShe replied that it was a telegram for Mi'. G.
I said to her, I thought it was Mr. Harry Dickmson
come to tell me his mother was ill." 1 went out at 8.45
for the rest of the morning, retumuig about 12.30. When
I came in, the maid said to me, " Mr. Harry Dicldnson
has been to ask you to go and see his mother, who is
iU." I said "What time did he come?" E. F. rephed,
"About 11 o'clock."
I had not been thinking of my amit, nor do I often
^ In reply to a question as to the date of this account, Miss Dickinson
saj's, " I wrote out ray account a few days after [the incident] happened,
but I do not remember the exact date. I should think April 3rd."
Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
see her, but March or April, 1916, my cousin came round
about 8.30 a.m. to ask me the same tliiiif>\
Janet Lowes Dickinson.
We have also obtained the following statement from Miss
Dickinson's maid :
11 Edwardes Square, W. 8 [A'pril 14, 1917].
On Thursday, March 29th, 1917, 1 went upstairs soon
after 8.30 a.m. and Mss Janet asked me what the ring
at the bell was. I said it was a telegram for Mr. G.
She said, " I thought it was J\Ir. Harry Dickinson come
to tell me his mother was ill." Miss Janet went out
soon after, and when she came in about 12.30, I said,
" Mr. Harry Dickuison came this mommg to ask you
to go and see his mother, who is ill." Miss Janet said,
"What time did he come?" and I said, "About 11
o'clock." Ethel Fawkes.
Miss Dickinson has also sent us the following letter from
Mr. Harry Dickinson, who appears to have been the agent in
the case :
222 GoLDHAWK Road, Shepherd's Bush,
London, W., Ajml 8, 1917.
With reference to our conversation of to-day's date,
when you told nu^ that you had a strong impression of
my mother's illness on the morning of 29th ult., I can
say that some time between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. on that
day I was in great anxiety of muid and ^vas considermg
callmg romid and asking you to sit with her. As you
will remember I called round the same mornmg at about
11 a.m. with that mtention and found that you had crone
out. My anxiety (apart from her ilhiess) was based on
the fact that I Avas obhged to hnish certain work at
once, and that I could not leave her alone all day m the
condition she was in at the time. My mother also wished
me to call for you. Harry Dickinson.
Miss Dickmson mentions in her original statement that about
a year before her cousin had come to her early in the mornmg '
to ask her to go to his mother who was ill, and we, therefore,
asked whether Mr. H. Dickmson had done this on more than
LXXXVI.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression not Externalised. 109
one previous occasion, and whether, on March 29, 1917, Miss
Dicldnson had any reason to think that her aunt was ill.
Miss Dickinson replied to these questions as follows :
April 23 [1917].
1. I did not Imow my aunt was ill; she was only taken
ill the night before.
2. My cousin had not sent for me sijice March or
April, 1916.
Janet L. Dickinson.
It, therefore, appears that (a) on the mommg of March 29,
1917, Miss Dickinson had no special reason for expectmg that
]VIr. H. Dickinson would send for her to sit with his mother ;
(6) at about the time, 8.30 a.m., when she had the impression
that he had come, he was thinking of coming and actually
came a few hours later.
§ 5. Motor Impulse.
There are in our collection three cases in which the
percipient receives a motor impulse—an impulse to do
something. Unfortunately in the first two of these the
interval between event and record is just at our limit
of five years, though there is some contemporary evidence
in the second case.
In the first of the three cases (L. 893, Journal, Vol. V.,
p. 172) the percipient writes :
(L. 893.)
Friday, March iWi [1891].
I am at present an undergraduate of Trinity College,
Cambridge. At the time the incident occurred I was a
Rugby boy. I was at home for the hohdays during the
summer of 1886. I thmk the month was August. I was
employed m reading for an Indian prize given at school ;
consequently, on the occasion of a tennis party given at
our house, the Rectory of Great RoUright, Chippmg Norton,
Oxfordshire, I did not go out with the rest when they
went down to our tennis court, which is about 200 yards
off, but stayed inside the house reading Holmes' Indian
Mutiny. My mother had gone out with the rest to the
ilO 3Irs. Henry Sidgioick. [part
tennis ground. Feeling it cold, she sent my youngest
brother, H., for her white shawl. I met him halfway
between the tennis ground and the house carrying the
aforesaid sha^\'l [myself]. The reasons for this were :
at the time that my mother asked my brother to get her
the shawl, I felt an impression that I nuist do something.
This graduall}^ increased in intensity till 1 Imew that
my mother wanted a shawl ;
then, as if by another stage
of completer intuition, I knew it ^^^as a white shawl,
and I knew that I had to go to the drawing-room to
fetch it (though I did not previously Imow it was there).
So I went and fetched it and brought it to my mother,
as I felt ol)Hged to do. She and my brother were, of
course, greatly surprised, and I remember asking her
whether she had thought of me in connection with the
shawl, or wished me in any way especially to fetch it.
She responded in the negative, which makes the matter
more curious. The call Avas distmct and imperative, and
altogether unlike anything else I have ever experienced.
I have never seen phantasmagoria, &c., or had any other
strange exjDeriences of the sort before or since.
Vernon H. Kendall.
I corroborate all the details in the mcident liere related.
Ellen H. Rendall.
Great Rollright Rectory, Chipping Norton.
The second case (L. 1131, Journal, Vol. XI., p. 80) was
sent to Mr. N. W. Thomas by a friend of his, Mr. A. B.
Gough, who collected the evidence for it. We are
requested not to publish the names of the persons con-
cerned.
(L. 1131.)
The account is contauied in a letter written in German
by Frau U., of which the following is a translation :
February 2lst, 1902.
On the evening of February 25th, 1897, I was sitting
alone, as I almost mvariably did, and reading, when I
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression noi Exfenialised . Ill
suddenly thought of the Beethoven Trio Op. 1 No. 1 ^ so
vividly that I got uj) to look for the music, which I had
not touched for nearly 20 years. It was just as if I
could hear the "cello and violm parts, and the bowing
and exjDression seemed to be that of two gentlemen Avho
had played with me often in C so many years before.
One of them, Kammermusiker L , first 'cellist of the
Residence Theatre in C , had been my eldest son's
master, but had been called to H in 1878. The
other, who was employed by my husband at that time
as clerk of the works, had subsequently quitted C
also, and removed m the middle of the nineties to H .
I had often seen him since he left C ,
and had also
! played duets with him, but never again in a trio.
' I got out the piano part and began to play ; —I must
J
here adniit that I had played Avith Z and L
t principally the Trio m B sharp, Op. 97, and the one in
C flat. Op. 1 No. 3, and was myself surprised that this
Op. 1 No. 1, which we had hardly ever played, was
rmging ui my ears. At any rate 1 heai'd with my
mental ear this melody so exactly that I played the piece
right through to the end.
About 10 o'clock the bell rang and my housemate, the
daughter of Lieutenant-Col. G , who lived over me,
came m. She apologised for her late visit and assured
me that she could not sleep until she had found out what
I had been playing. I supphed the mformation, and she
remarked, " Well, what brought that into your head ?
"
" I don't laiow, I haven't oiDened the book for t^Aenty
years, but before I began I heard Z and 1.^
playmg and I felt I must recall the full harmony."
The next day but one the enclosed card came ; it had
been written, as we estabUshed by subsequent correspond-
ence, on the same evenmg and at the same hour, and
as the post-mark shows, deUvered (in K ) the foUowmg
[should be "the next but one"] morning.
(Signed) Frau M U .
1 This accoimt does not strirtly agree with Mr. Z
Fran U 's contemporary postcard, see below p. 113
i
"s account of
112 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
The following is a translation of the postcard:
H , 25 Febr. 97.
After playmg Beethoven 0]). 1 No. 1 we send you
hearty greetings in remembrance of happy hours spent
togetlier m the past. Z , R L .
The postcard bears the post-marks—" H . . . 26/2/97.
8-9 V." ("V." = A.M.) and " K. . . . 26/2/97 10-11." The
mark after " 10-11 " is very indistinct, resembling both V.
and N. ; but apparently it must be "N." (
=P.M.), since it
takes at least six or seven hours for a letter to go from
H. to K. The postcard woukl then not have been delivered
in K. before the following morning.
Mr. Gough obtamed the foUowuig corroborative statement
from Fraulein G. :
On Feb. 25th, 1897, I heard some one playing the jjiano
at Frau U 's below us between 9 and 10. I could not
remember what it Avas, though I Itnew the music ; so I
went down and asked. I learnt that Frau U had
been playing Beethoven Op. 1 No. 1, a piece which she
had not played for many years. U G .
Miss G. writes as follows in answer to further questions :
I noticed that Frau U was playing only one part.
She explamed to me that she was playing it because she
felt she must (der Gedanke an das Stiick sie dazu trieb).
I saw the postcard after it arrived. The date was, as
I satisfied myself, the same as that on which Frau U
liad played the piece. U G .
Mr. Gough in sending the case, writes as follows to Mr.
Thomas :
Fehruanj 23rd, 1902.
I enclose Frau U 's accomit of her experience,
together with the postcard and a short note by Frl. G ,
written without any previous consultation with Frau U .
The latter however had described the occurrence to me
last Smaday m the presence of Frl. G , and mentioned
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised . 113
the date, which can therefore hardly be regarded as
corroborated by the latter. . . .
Frau U is writing, or has written, to Mr. Z to
ask him to write down his version, but she does not
think he will remember much, as he is very forgetful. . . .
She has related the experience twice to me, without
any divergence from the written account. She added
that as she only played her part in the trio, the pecuhar
effect attracted the curiosity of Frl. G (at least I
think so). . . . Whether the statement that the two
men played the piece at exactly the same time can be
confirmed, I don't Imow. Frau U says it was their
habit to play music after a late dimier. One might guess
that this was the case when the postcard Avas written.
As you will observe, it was not posted till the next
morning. It passed through the K P.O. on the
evening of the 26th and Avas dehvered at the house
the next morning. . . . Fi'au U had only made
the acquaintance of Frl. G shortly before the event,
and they were not on such intimate terms as they are
now.
The following is a translation of a letter from Mr. Z. to
Mr. Thomas :
27/4/1902.
After the event in question on Feb. 25, 1897, Frau U
wi'ote me a postcard containing the following words
amongst others : "I must mention also the remarkable
coincidence ; I had not played for months, but on the
evening of the 25tli I had such an unconquerable desire
to play that I executed first a piece of Schumann (from
the Kreisleriana) and then, Avithout knowing Avhy I did so,
the first and second movements of the Trio Op. 1."
We plajred immediately after dinner, about 9 in the
evening. The performances may therefore have been
simultaneous. The Kreisleriana was a souvenir of our
former musical companionship. I gave the book to
Frau U and she frequently played me pieces from it.
I had sjjoken several times to Mr. L on the evening
in question (before Ave began) about the Trio-evenings in
114 Mrs. Henry Sidgnnck. [part
C . It seems possible therefore that a telepathic
influence was at work.
Z .
In answer to further questions, Mr. Z. writes :
Maij dth, 1902.
With the exception of this single evening I have only
met' Herr L in the street (i.e. after leaving C ) ;
on such occasions he occasionally asked after the U
family. With the exception of the j^ostcarcl in c^uestion
we never sent a common greeting to Frau U .
Ml'. L. was also asked to confirm the account, but no
answer to this request was received.
Mr. Gough wites furtlier as follows :
31arch lih, 1902.
Re Frau U : The first time she told me the story
was one day this semester, before Xmas, probably in
December. She believes she had been reading, but she
has quite forgotten what. She is certain she had not
been playing the piano. She hardly ever plays. She
has no knowledge of having been thinking of the men.
The date was not in any way associated with them.
She knew that Z was in H , and she believes
she had sent him greetings on his birthday, the 20th of
January, l)ut she had not received or expected a reply.
It is her habit to exchange bu'thday greetings with cer-
tain friends to whom she writes on no other occasions.
She always sends Z a card on his birthday, and he
sends one on hers (in November), but they do not cor-
respond except for this. Tliere was no communication
between them between his birthday and the occurrence.
She had no idea that the two men played together, nor
indeed that they had met in H ,
although she had
heard a good while before that L had obtained a
post there. She did not know, however, whether he was
still there. She had no communications with him.
There was certainly no piano or other instrument in
the house, or in either of the adjoining houses that
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Exiernalised. 115
could have been heard on the evenmg in question. Fiau
U told nie who her neighbours above, below, right
and left were, and assures me that they none of them
played music. She is qviite positive about this.
She has never been to a concert at K .
The trio used to play some other pieces very often,
but this piece was only played about twice.
Unfortunately I have not seen Frl. G again, but
Frau U tells me she (l^'rl. G ) knew the date (as
I supposed) from hearing it talked about when I was
there in February, when the post-card was produced. Frau
U also says she showed her the post-card when it
came ; also that Frl. G did notice it was only one
part that was being played. Frl. G is sa.id (l)y
Frau U ) to have a remarkable memory for tunes
and sounds.
May 9th, 1902.
Z had given her several books of music, including
B.'s Sonatas, but not his trios.
She had played Schumann's Kreisleriana x-mal " to
Z . He had given her a copy in 1S75. Shown me,
with dedication.
Frau U has found in an old memorandum book a
note to effect that she wrote to Z on March 1st,
1897, [which was] shown me.
The third case of the group (L. 8S6, Journal, Vol. V.,
p. 137) also describes the playing of a particular inece
of music in response to an unusual impulse. I do not
quote it in fiill, as I understand it was communicated
to us not for publication. It is a death coincidence.
The piece was a favourite of a friend of the percipient's
who had made her promise that if possible she would
play it to her on her death-bed. The percipient did
not often play it, and on the evening when, as she says,
" Suddenly and unconsciously to myself I found myself
playing " it, and consequently thinking of her friend, she
was not even aware that the friend, Avho died that
evening, was ill. We do not know that the dying agent
IKi Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
had the music or the percipieiat in mind, but for the
latter the association of the music with the idea of the
agent's death was close. The case was sent to Mr.
Myers, who knew the percipient, about eight months after
the occurrence.
§ 6. Imiwessimis of Danger.
The two experiences to be next described are of a
vaguer kind—impressions of calamity or impending danger
not connected by the percipient at the time with any
particular agent. In the first (L. 990, Journal, Vol. VIL,
p. 120) the percipient describes an "indefinable dread
amounting to positive terror " on the day on which, as
it proved, her brother was taken seriously ill as the
result of an accident. Unfortunately the narrative,
though the record was made only a few months after
the experience, is not very complete, and does not tell
us when the accident occurred and whether the impression
began before it and was thus premonitory or not.
The second case (L. 1142, Journal, Vol. XL, p. 323) de-
scribing a feeling of impending danger, which was possibly
the result of telejiathy from a dog, and certainly led
to the discovery of its perilous condition, is of interest
as bearing on the question whether animals can be in
telepathic communication with men.^
(L. 1142.)
The case was sent to us by Mr. J. F. Young, of New Road,
Llanelly, South Wales.
New Road, Llanelly, Nov. IWi, 1904.
I own a rough terrier, about 5 years old, which I have
brought up from a pup. I have always been a great
lover of animals, dogs especially. This dog returns my
affection so much that I never go anywhere, not even
leave the room, but he nuist follow me. He is death
1 Foui' other possible cases of animal agency will be found in tliis
chapter and the next. A case of possible animal percipieney is L. 1156,
p. .-$40.
IjXXXVi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 117
on rats, and the scullery being visited occasionally by these
rodents, I have a comfortable bed for Fido to sleep on.
In this room there is a fire-place with an oven suitable
for baking, and a boiler for washing, with a flue running
back into the chimney (as sketch) [not reproduced here].
It was my custom to take him to his bed the last thing
before retiring for the night. I had undressed and was
about getting into bed, when an unaccountable feeling
came over me of impending danger. I could think of
nothing possible but Fire, and the impression was so
strong that I yielded to it and actually dressed again,
and went downstairs and examined each room to satisfy
myself that all was right. When I got to the scullery
I missed Fido, and thinking he had slipped by me un-
observed to go upstairs, I immediately began to call
him, but getting no response, I called to my sister-in-law
to know if she had heard him, and getting an answer in
the negative, I began to feel excited, and rushed back
to the scullery again, and called repeatedly, but not a
sound could be heard. What to do I did not know.
It then occurred to me that if anything will get him to
respond it will be the sentence, " Come for a walk, Fido,"
which always gave him delight. As soon as I had re-
peated this sentence, I heard a faint cry, muftied as if
distant ;
calling again, the cry of a dog in distress came
plainly. I eventually traced it to the tlue [at a point
marked in the sketch], where the flue uniting the boiler
with chimney runs. For the moment I could not think
how I could get him out ; moments were precious, life
was in danger. I took a pickaxe and soon tore down
a portion of the wall, when with some difficulty I drew
him out half-dead, panting, vomiting, tongue and body
black with soot ;
my pet would soon have been dead, and
as the boiler is only used occasionally, I should never
have known Avhat had become of him. Hearing the
noise my sister-in-law came to the scene. We found a
rat-hole in the fireplace which led to the flue. Fido had
evidently chased the rat into the flue and could not turn
or retreat. ... This occurred a few months ago and was
reported at the time in our local paper, but I never
118 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
thought of sending it to you until I read the Rider
Haggard story. (See below, p. 219.)
J. F. Young.
Mr. Young's sister-in-law writes :
The above is a correct account of the incident.
E. Bennett.
Mr. Young tells us that his sister-in-law was the only person
besides himself in the house at the time and therefore the
only other possible Avitness. In reply to questions as to
the possibility of his having heard any sounds made by the
dog before he went downstairs, he writes :
November I9th, 1904.
. . . Be Dog. As suggested by you 1 will give you a
few more particulars relating to this. I think you will
at once see the utter impossibility of any sounds reaching
me, unless they had been veri/ loud, and even then my
sister-in-law, who sleej^s nearer the dog than I do, would
have noticed it. Tn fact she enquired as I was crossing
the landing to go down, where I was going ; when I
replied that " I felt as if something was going to happen,
and feared it might be fire." I may here remark that as
I passed from room to room, I began to accuse myself
for being so silly as to imagine any danger. However,
I went on looking for something, not having the slightest
idea of what to expect. From that time, until I read
Rider Haggard's dream, I put it down to an intelligence
outside myself that had prompted me to go down. The
telepathic theory now takes its place, especially taking
into consideration the devotion of the dog, for, if possible,
he will not allow me out of his sight, and in my absence
is qiiite a different dog. . . .
In reply to query (1), Yes. I took him, as I always
do, to his bed the last thing [before going] the round of
the rooms and tloors to see that all is safe. I (2) also
enclose a sketch, in section, which will give you an idea
as to our positions. (3) I never heard any sounds, and
neither could I get any after repeated whistling and
calling, until I called him to go for a walk, and that
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cas^s : Impression not Externalised. 119
was so faint I could not at first localise it. You will
observe the position of the dog was actually the furthest
[from me] that could be in the house. . . .
J. F. Young.
In this letter and a later one, Mi". Young enclosed rough
plans of his house, showing his bedroom at the front, and on
the opposite side of the house from the scullery, which is at
the back. The bedroom is on the first floor and the scullery
in the basement, the ground floor intervening between them.
There were also three doors, all shut and locked, between
the interiors of the two rooms, namely, the doors of the rooms
themselves and a third door at the top of the lowest flight
of stairs leading down to the basement. Under these ckcum-
stances, it is very difficult to suppose that Mr. Young could
have heard any sounds from the dog imprisoned in the flue.
We may take next a case where misfortune was averted
by acting on the impression which was quite definite,
but where we cannot point with any certainty to a
particular agent (P. 285, Journal, Vol. XVI., p. 29). The
percipient had, however, been in the company of several
men who may have anticipated danger.
(P. 285.)
The account was sent to Sir Oliver Lodge by Mr. John
A. A. Williams, of Aberglaslyn Hall, Beddgelert, North Wales,
in a letter dated October 31st, 1912 :
I have often thought of writing to tell you the following
facts. The story got into some of the papers, and I
saw an account of it in the Liverpool Courier which was
not quite correct. Until last year I was the jDrincipal
proprietor of one of the largest slate quarries m .
I used to go up there occasionally to look round with
the Manager, who had the charge of them. On Nov.
25th, 1910, I went up with my brother, and we both went
round with the Manager. On our rettun in the motor,
my brother was telling me about a " shoot " he had
been to, and I was listening attentively, as it was about
120 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
a mutual friend. In the middle of his telling me, I had
a sort of message, and seemed to see a certain portion
of the quarry and the men in great danger. I interrupted
my brother and said, " Excuse me interrupting you, but
I have had the most extraordinary message, that those
eight men we saw working are in danger." He said,
" But what do you know about it ? The men have
worked in the quarry for many years, and they would
know if it were dangerous ; also the Manager and sub-
agents have been there many years and know the ground
well." I said, " I don't care. I shall stop at Post
Office (after dropping my brother) and will wire to the
Manager to stop them working." My brother said, " He
will think you have gone perfectly mad," and that I
had never interfered with the working, etc., etc. ; how-
ever, I did stop and I sent the wire. The Manager went
to the eight (or ten) men and said to the men, "It is
an extraordinary thing, I have received a wire, etc., from
Mr. Williams. I cannot understand it, but you must
stop working at once," and the men were equally surprised
and took up their tools and left the ground. About half
an hour to three-quarters of an hour [later], the whole
of that ground fell to the bottom of the quarry, about
120 yards, and all the debris from above fell on top ;
nothing could have saved them—no warnmg. In the
morning I had several telegrams, one from the agent,
saying, " good thing you sent wire, as all the ground gave
way shortly after the men left," and I had others to the
same effect. When I received them I lay on the sofa
for a long time in a highly nervous state, quite overcome.
When I went up to the quarry the next day to see the
ground, one of the men came to me on behalf of the
others, to thank me for saving their lives.
John A. A. Williams.
Through the efforts of Mr. J. Ai'thur HiU, who kindly
undertook to collect the evidence for this case, the original
letters written to Mr. Williams next day by his brother, and
by the agent and manager of the quarry, were put into our
hands, and we give below copies of them :
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Gases : Impression not Externalised. 121
(1) From the Agent.
.
. Nov. 26, 1910.
I I cannot tell you how glad I am that you sent that
telegram yesterday to the Manager, because all that ground
came down in about an hour after the men cleared
away.
I went up to-day by the 12.40 tram and saw a con-
siderable change there. For a length of about 20 yards
the ground where we and the men stood had all shpped
away, so that it is now not possible to walk the whole
length of that side as we did yesterday. We had to
descend from close to the eating shed. Part of the wall
has also gone, exposing the piles : still there is no leakage
of water from the lake. The men are clearing right well
from both ends. We can only hope that the water will
keep away for a little while, until a temporary bit of
I
dam can be made there. Somehow I feel much calmer
to-day, seeing how near we were to a great disaster
—
Y the killing of 7 to 10 men. We must still hope for the
best.
[P.<S'.]—I have dropped further note to Mr. D. saying
that a further lot fell last night.
f
.
\ (2) From the Manager.
Nov. 26, 1910.
I was very glad to have your wire last night, as I was
so anxious about the safety of the men. They also
were aU very glad to hear your order not to work in the
;
dark. And, no doubt, it was very fortunate that you
;
•
did wire, because about an hour later the whole of the
i place where they were working upon went down.
I
I wired you this morning to inform you that [a] great
[deal] more of the rubbish as well as a part of the piles
and a part of the big wall went down last night ; fortu-
nately the water still keeps back, there are a few very
small streams running'^down the clay side, it is impossible
to say whether these come ; from the actual ake or not,
we are setting small troughs to carry it over the clay. . . .
122 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(3) From Mr. Williams's brother.
Monday [Nov. 28, 1910],
This morning I drove to the quarry. Tlie position now
seems to me to be much more favourable than it was on
Saturday. There are no cracks known to exist in the
face of the rocks. The gravel will keep dropping until
a natural face is formed. I certainly feel to-night that,
barring a big flood in the next fortnight, water will not
flood the quarry. G and all the men are doing their
very best to clear down to the virgin soil in the lowest
water level part, and I am sure if you could motor up
again they would all be very glad to see you, and I am
sure your mind would be as much relieved as mine is
this evening. It is well you sent that wire. I forgot
to ask how much warnmg that part gave—probably not
much.
In reply to a question from Mr. HiU as to whether there
was any apparent danger of such an accident happening, Mr.
Williams wrote :
Nov. 3, 1912.
There is always danger [in] working in those quarries
where the sides are perpendicular for over 100 yards.
There were no indications of any unusual danger, as my
brother could bear me out. I both spoke to the agent
that day and also to the sub-agent, that on no account
was any risk to be run, if the place showed any indica-
tions of danger, and they both said they would not run
the risk, neither would the men. . . . The Manager and
men knew the ground well and they would not run any
risk (unnecessary).
You will notice my Manager says in his letter, " I was
very glad to have your wire, as I was anxious about the
safety of the men." Why did he say that in his letter
when he told us both that it was quite safe and when I
told him not to run any risk ? . . .
The discrepancy pointed out by Mr. Williams is perhaps to
be explained by supposing that the Manager, after the cata-
strophe, blamed himself for not foreseeing it and imagined
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression not Externalised. 123
that he had felt an anxiety beforehand, for which there seems
to have been no adequate ground. In situations of tliis kind,
there may often be subconscious anxiety in the minds of the
persons concerned. It is conceivable that some such feeling
in the Manager impressed Mi-. Williams telepathically, and
caused him to send the telegram. It is also conceivable that
Ml". Williams subconsciously noticed some indications of danger
when he visited the quarry, and that this gave rise later to
his sudden imj)ulse to send the telegram.
In the letter just quoted, Mr. Williams gives two rough
drawings of a section through the quarry, showing the jDosition
of the ground before and after the accident. The height of
the gallery on wliicli the men were working is given as 340
feet from the bottom of the quarry.
With a view to obtaining further evidence as to Avhether
there was any reasonable ground for exjjecting an accident,
IVIi-. Williams, who has taken a great deal of trouble to pro-
vide us with all the information possible, m-ote to his brother
to ask for his present recollections of the incident, and sent
us his reply, which seems to sliow that at least neither of
the brothers was at all anxious about the condition of the
quarry.
The letter is as folIoAvs ;
Dec. 31, 1912.
My recollection of what occurred on Nov. 24th, 1910,
when you and I were returnuig from the quarry in a
motor is that when passing about nine miles from
the quarry, and I was telling you about a shoot that I
had been to, you suddenly interrupted me and said some-
thing to the following effect :
" Whilst you v/ere talking
I had a curious sort of message that those men are in
danger, and that I shall send a whe to stop them working
when I get to ," and you went to the Post Office
there and sent the telegram to G instructing him to
immediately stop the men.
The date Nov. 24, 1910, here given, is obviously a slip, as
the contemporary letters show that it was on Nov. 25, 1910,
that the accident occurred.
124 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
§ 7. Vague hut insistent thought of Agent.
In the last-mentioned three cases it has been the idea
of the event and not that of the agent that has been
apparently transferred, however vaguely. In the next
two, what reaches the percipient is nothing but the
idea of the agent. The first of the two (L. 972, Journal,
Vol. VI., p. 212)—if not a mere coincidence, which is
perhaps the most probable hypothesis—has the interest
of a sort of semi-reciprocality about it, the proximity,
unknown to either, of agent and percipient being the
only cause suggested for the percipient's thought of
the agent, and this thought leading possibly to the
agent's thinking of the percipient some hours later.
(L. 972.)
The account comes from Mi's. WaUier, 319, Hagley-road,
Edgbastou, Birmingham. It was eiiclosed in a letter dated
November 15th, 1893, but Mrs. Walker tells us that it was
written some time earlier.
On September 10th, 1892, I was waUdng by myself
along a road near our home, hastening to join my husband,
to look over a new house which we thought might suit
us. My mind was completely absorbed in mental measure-
ments and arrangement of rooms—weighing questions of
rent, exjoenses, and sleeping accommodation, etc., etc.,
so that I scarcely noticed anything by the way. Sud-
denly the whole train of thought vanished from my mind,
and was replaced by a mental picture of a little boy
about 12, whom formerly I used occasionally to notice
about in our parish at various meetings, but whom I
[had] not seen for more than a year, and certainly (as
far as I could remember) had never thought of, or in-
quired about, since. I did not know him well, but had
merely spoken to him once or twice, as one amongst
hundreds of our school children, though he had so far
impressed me that I should have described him as a
rather original little fellow, and better educated than most.
However, busy and preoccuj^ied as I was that morning
Joey Fisher suddenly, without the slightest cause or outside
LXXxvi.] Spontaneous Gases : Impression 7iot Externalised. 125
suggestion, obtruded himself upon my mind, so that I
began to wonder what had become of the lad, as I had
neither seen nor heard anything of him for about a year.
His face seemed to rise up before me, and the thought
of him occupied my mind for a minute or two. I was
then passing along a road separated by a high hedge
from the Rotton Park Reservoir, and can remember the
very place where I began to think of the boy, and where,
on coming in sight of the turn in the road that led to the
new house, my thoughts seemed to jump back to the
absorbing subject of interest with regard to the decision
we had to make at once about the house. I thought no
more about it until, early in the evening, a parcel con-
taining a large pilie was brought in to me from Joey
Fisher. I was still more surprised when, coming back
from a parish meeting later the same evening, I happened
to meet the boy in the street, and learned that he had
caught the pike himself that day in our Reservoir, and
had been standing fishing down below the road at the
exact time I had passed (but quite out of sight of the
road). I asked, " What made him thinlc of sending it
to me ?
" He rephed, " I don't know ; it seemed to
come into my mind all at once, '
I wonder if Mrs. Walker
would like this fish ?
'
So I asked at home if I might
take it you, and went up with it in the evening."
Afterwards I thought it, at any rate, such a curious
coincidence that I asked the boy to write it down, which
he did, and I enclose his short account.
I may add that I had never imagined in any way either
that he could fish or would be likely to be at the Reser-
voir. In fact, the boy had scarcely ever entered into my
consciousness, until he suddenly that morning seemed to
spring up before my mental vision, displacing an absorbing
train of thought, just when, unknown to each other, we
were very near together. Jessie E. Walker.
P.S.—You will notice, the boy did not, apparently,
think of sending the fish to me until he returned to the
same spot in the afternoon ;
so, although he had come into
my mind when passing (unseen) in the morning, it was not
for some hours later that / seem to have occurred to him.
126 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
The account enclosed by Mrs. Walker is as follows :
I was fishing for pike at the Reservoir, Edgbaston, on
Saturday, September 10th. I caught one in the morning,
and before going home to dinner I threw in several lines,
and when I returned in the afternoon I stood for a time
on the feeder bridge, watching the smaller fish, when I
noticed an unusual flutter in the water just about the
spot where in the morning I had put in the lines ; I got
my drag and was very surprised to find I had caught
another pike. I was very pleased and wondered what I
should do Avith it, and suddenly I thought, how would
i\'Ii's. Walker like it. When I got home my sister made it
into a j)arcel and I took it to Mi-s. WaU^er in the evening ;
the same night I hapj^ened to meet Mrs. Walker in the
Crescent ; she said she was very pleased with it and
thanked me [and said] how singular it was that at the
very time I was thinking what to do with the pike, she
was the other side of the Reservoir thinking of me, and
wondering where I was, as she had not seen me for so long.
Berea, Gillot-road. J- ^- Fisher.
March 18th, 1893.
In the second case (L. 1199, Journal, Vol. XVI., p. 203)
the tragical nature of the agent's or agents' experience
presents a strong contrast to the triviality of the last,
but does not help to explain why the imj)ression should
have come to the particular percipient on that day. The
case was sent to us by the late Mr. F. E. Kitchener of
Stone, Staffordshire.
(L. 1199.)
The names and addresses of all the persons concerned have
been communicated to us, but by request pseudonyms or
initials are here substituted. The percipient, Mr. " Parker,"
who is a clergyman, describes his experience as follows in a
letter, a copy of which was received by Mrs. Sidgwick from
Mr. Kitchener on December 16th, 1913 :
On Sunday evening, Dec. 7th, 1913, I explained to my
niece and companion, M. W., that thoughts of two friends
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Gases : Lmpression not Externalised. 127
in whose house I had hved for 12 months, 44 years ago,
for the purposes of completing my education after leaving
school, had occupied my mind during the day in a most
unaccountable manner. I had not seen Mr. and Mi's. C.
for 28 years, and had long since ceased to correspond with
them. The last time I had heard of them they were
hving m retirement at D . I added that I was so much
impressed- by the frequent recurrence of these thoughts
that, had there been any tendency to superstition about
me, I should probably have expected to hear that some-
thing had happened to one or both of them. My niece
and I smiled at the very suggestion !
On the following Friday, to my surprise, I received a copy
of the D Daily Telegraph in which was the account
of the tragic death of Mrs. C. from burning, which occurred
early in the mornmg of Suiiday, Dec. 7th. Her nightdress
caught fire as she was lighting a candle to ascertain the
time by her watch. The doctor at the inquest reported
that death had ensued very shortly after the accident,
and was mainly due to shock.
Mr. and Mrs. C. were 86 years of age.
Miss W. corroborates Mr. Parker's statement as follows in
a letter received by Mr. Ivitchener on January 5th, 1914 :
On Sunday, Dec. 7th, [1913], at lunch time, my uncle
spoke to me about a Mr. and Mrs. C, saying he had
been thinliing all the morning about them. I had never
heard him mention them before, and did not know of
their existence.
Then again at supper time he spoke of them and said
that, if he had been of at aU a superstitious nature, he
supposed he should have expected to hear something about
them within the next few days.
On the following Friday he received a cutting from a
D newspaper with an account of Mrs. C.'s accident
and death.
Before telling me that he had received the paper, he
asked me on which day it was that he had spoken to me
about Mr. and Mi-s. C. This he did to make sure that
it was the day of the accident. [Signed] M. W.
128 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
Ml'. Parker sent us the cutting from the D Daily
Telegraj)li above referred to. It is dated Monday, December
8, 1913, and describes the death as having occurred soon
after 6 a.m.
Mr. Kitchener whites :
—
To the facts as stated by Mi-. [Parker] I may add the
following :
(1) Mr. [Parker] is a man I have known for years,
accurate and businesslilse. He has hitherto had no
sympathy with any investigation of such cases, as I
know from his recejition of one or two personal experiences
of my own communicated by me to him. I
(2) I never heard him mention Mr. and Mrs. C, though
he has told me many details of his boyhood and young-
manliood. I understand his niece had never heard him
mention them either.
(3) [Mr. Parker] performed three full services on Sunday, [
Dec. 7 [1913], so that there was much to divert him
throughout the day from the thought of Mr. and Mrs.
C, which, he says—nevertheless—occupied his mind during
the day. [Signed] F. E. Kitchener.
Compare with this an experience reported by Miss
MacLellau, who has been already referred to above, p. 103.
The one in question is No. VII., Journal, Vol. XIX.,
p. 175. A persistent impression of a friend about the
time she was killed in Paris by a German shell is de-
scribed.
§ 8. Thovght of Agent and his condition.
The reader will probably turn with relief from these
rather vague cases to seven in which the idea of the event
and of the person concerned in it (the presumed agent)
are combined in the percipient's mind. The first two
are death coincidences.
The first (L. 1125), Journal, Vol. X., p. 79, is from
Mr. J. F. You.ng, Llanelly, who was the percipient in
the case concerning a dog (see above, p. 116). The
present case is one of many similar impressions which
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : tm/pression not Externalised. 129
Mr. Young has had. The interest of this particular one
consists in the fact that Mr. Young at once acted upon
the suggestion made to him some time previously by
Sir Wilham Barrett, and at the moment of its occurrence
wrote down the intimation with the date and hour.
(L. 1125.)
New Road, Llanelly, March 9/01.
The following account of a presentiment I recently had
may be interesting to you.
I was havmg my supper on the evening of February
15th last, when a message came from a customer requiring
my services. I sent back a reply that I would come
immediately I had my supper. It has always been a
strong point with me to keep my appointments, and
therefore, having hastily finished my meal, I was in the
act of leaving the table when I suddenly exclaimed,
" There ! ! ! I have just had an intimation that Robert
is dead " : the Robert referred to is a Robert HaUett
(a brother-in-law) who was residing near my sister (Mrs.
Pouting) at Sturminster Newton, Dorset. He had been
bed-ridden from paralysis for this last two years, but had
recently been much Avorse.
I at once entered fuU particulars in my diary. Date,
Feb. 15. Message, and time of message, 9.40 p.m. My
sister-in-law was present the Avhole time, and can vouch
for the circumstances. On the 17th I received a post-
card from my sister at Sturminster Newton, bearing date
Feb. 16th, stating, that " Robert had passed away, will
write to-morrow."
In the meantime I had written to my sister Mrs. Pout-
ing, mentioning my presentiment, and our letters crossed,
for the following morning a letter came from her (I must
mention here she had been assisting m nursing my brother-
in-law), saymg, " I was glad you had a presentiment of
poor Robert's release, he passed away at 7.45 p.m., then
Lottie [my niece Lottie HaUett] and I came home till
9.!f0, and that was the time you had the impression."
I wish to state two facts in connection mth the fore-
going case. (1) I was not thinking of him at the time,
130 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
my mind being engrossed in my appointment, and the
impression came so startlingly sudden, which caused me to
hastily say. There !!!... as before stated ; and (2) at
the same moment, I had a sense of a presence at my
left, so much so, that I looked sharply round, but found
no one there.
This was my first and only impression during his long
illness.
It will be observed that there is a difference of nearly
two hours from the time of his death to the premonition.
Had his spirit only then recovered consciousness, or was
it a case of telejjathy from my sister on her arrival to the
quiet of her home, when her thoughts roamed to me 1
I may say we are devotedly attached to each other, and
her jjsychical faculties are similar to my own. I have
sent you post-card, envelope, and part of letter as evidence,
and Mxs. Pouting (my sister) will give you every facility
to corroborate what I have written. J. F. YouisiG.
The sister-in-law referred to, Miss E. Bennett, has read the
above statement and appends the following
:
m March, 1901.
The foregoing is quite correct. (Signed) E. Bennett.
The note in the diary occurs amongst some memoranda on
blank sheets at the end of a small pocket diary. The previous
entry is dated February 12th, and the two following entries
are dated, in that order, February 28 and February 19. The
entry contains, therefore, no internal evidence of having been
written at the time. It is as follows :
Feb. 15. As I rose from supjDer, a message came, as
if by spirit influence, to say, " Robert has passed away."
Miss Bennett present. I said, " There, I have just had
an intimation Robert is dead. Time, 9.40 p.m. Noted
full particulars on my return : was called away. Had to
see a customer on business."
Mr. Young's original letter to his sister, Mrs. Pouting, has,
unfortunately, not been preserved. But Ave have seen a post-
LXXXVi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 131
card from Mi'S. Ponting, dated Febrviary 16, containing the
simple announcement :
" Passed away quietly last evening " ;
also two letters in which Mrs. Ponting refers to Mr. Young's
letter. In the first, dated February 19th, she writes :
I was glad to hear you had a presentiment of poor
Robert's release. He passed away at a quarter to eight.
Then Lottie [HaUett] and I came home till 9.40, so that
was the time you had the impression.
In the second letter IVIrs. Ponting announces her unsuccessful
search for the missing letter from Mr. Young. It had probably
been, as she explained, torn up for pipe-lights.
Miss Lottie Young, another niece, to whom Mr. Young
related his impression on the morning after its occurrence,
sends us the following corroboration
:
7 New Road, Llanelly, April 11.
Accidentally meeting my uncle, Mr. Young, on the
morning of Feb. 16th, he informed me that he had had
an intimation the previous evening that IVIr. Hallett was
dead. On Feb. 17th he showed me a post-card (received
that day), which stated that Mr. Hallett died on Feb.
15th, thus confirming the intimation. L. Young.
In the next case (P. 262, Journal, Vol. IX., p. 79), the
impression occurred about twelve hours before the death
of the person it concerned.
(P. 262.)
The Hon. Mrs. Leir-Carleton, Greywell Hill, Winchfield,
writes as follows :
Mrs. Hoptroff (resident in this village and mother of my
maid, TiUey Hoptroff) underwent an operation on August
20th [1898], in the Victoria Hospital, Bournemouth. Her
daughter remained with her until August 23rd, when she
was progressing satisfactorily, and insisted upon the girl
returnmg to " keep house for the boys," her brothers.
On August 26th, about 9 a.m., I was sitting at my
dressing-table, trying to brush my hair, in despite of
hindrance from a pet cat (that would play with my
132 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
sleeve-ruffles, and was getting scolded, yet encouraged),
when I suddenly became aware of this assertion :
" Mrs.
Hoptroff will pass, to-day." There was no sound, but I
felt as clearly impressed with those five words as if they
had been uttered close to me. I may remark that '
" pass " is not an expression I should be likely to use,
but this is the second time it has been used to impress
me. I sprang to my feet and stared around. My gaze
lit upon the writing-table, and (recollecting a similar
experience that I had unluckily supposed illusory and
neglected to note) I at once scribbled the above sentence,
dated, and shut it away. Then I admitted two old
servants, (Mrs. Tilley and Mrs. Bolton), and as they
entered I asked, " What news of Mrs. Hoptroff ?
" The
answer was, " Oh, much better ! The sickness has left
her, and the doctor ordered fish for her dinner." I said,
" Well ... I must say I did not expect such good
news. Somehow I have had a feeling she might die
after all, and perhaps to-day." I did not mention what
had made me think this, because their information made
me distrust mine, which indeed soon ceased to occupy
my thoughts.
That night, at dinner, shortly after 8 o'clock, there was
brought to me a telegram, that Tilley Hoptroff had just
received from Bournemouth, announcing " a change for
the worse." I directed my son where to find my memor- i
andum, which he brought, and everyone present read it.
On Sunday, August 28th, we learnt that Mrs. H. died
on the evening of the 26th.
Mrs. Leir-Carleton's account is confirmed by the signed
|
statements (bearing date Aug. 28th, 1898) of her son, Mr.
Dudley Carleton, who went to fetch the pajier inscribed,
"Mrs. Hoptroff will pass to-day, Friday, August 26th, 1898,"
and of several of the guests present at dinner on the evening
in question. Further confirmation is afforded by the testimony
of the servants, in whose presence Mrs. Carleton had hinted
at her misgivings on the morning of the 26th :
|
When I came into Mrs. Carleton's room on Friday,
^
August 26th, she asked me if there was any news of Mrs,
I
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Im'pression not Externalised. 133
Hoptroff. I answered, " much better, the sickness has
stopped, and she was to have fish for her dinner." Mrs.
Carleton looked very serious, and said that she did not
expect good news, and said, " somehow I have had a
feeling that she may die, to-day." Mrs. Bolton was also
present and wiU sign her name below mine. This is
written down by Lucy Day (housemaid), to whom Mrs.
Bolton repeated Mrs. Carleton's remark a few minutes
later, after Mrs. Carleton had gone downstairs to breakfast.
Elisabeth Tilley.
Emily Bolton.
Lucy Day.
We owe the following case (L. 1217, Jotirnal, Vol. XVIII.,
p. 193) to the kindness of Mrs. E. S. Russell. There is no
doubt that the impression was veridical, but I include
it here with some hesitation because we have no evidence
that the telepathic agent was any one living, and it may
have been a message from the dead.
(L. 1217.)
Mrs. Russell wites :
Bryans Ground, Presteign,
Radnorshire, March 12, 1918.
My sister, Mrs. W- , has asked me to write you an
account of the story she told you about my small boy.
Unfortunately I did not write it down at the time, so
I am not sure as to the date, but it was after November
4th [1917], perhaps several days after, though before the
news of my husband's death came to us on November
16th. I think it was most likely on November 8th or
9th, and my husband was killed on November 6tli.
Dicky, the small boy, was resting on my bed after lunch
and I was sitting by his side sewing, and we were not
talking, when he sat up rather suddenly and said, " Daddy
is dead." I said, " Oh no, dear, he's not and I expect
he'U come back to us some day " ; but Dicky looked very
upset and became flushed and almost wept and said again,
" No he won't, Dick knows he's dead." I just said,
134 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [PAET
" No, dear, I don"t think he is," but Dicky seemed so
distressed and repeated, " No, no, Dick knows it " so
emphatically that I thought best to leave the subject
alone. He never referred to it again and had never said
anything of the sort before. When we did say anything
about his father it was always as to when he would come
back and Dick's usual remark was that he would run
and open the gate for him. It was so queer of Dick
that I went almost at once and told my sister here of it,
but I had no impression at aU that my husband was
dead, and only thought of it as odd of Dicky. Indeed
we had got to look upon my husband's safety as a
foregone conclusion, for he had been through Gallipoh,
El Arish and the first battle of Gaza without a scratch.
[Signed] Elizabeth D. Russell.
In reply to questions Mrs. Russell writes on March 16,
1918 :
(1) Dicky was born on August 3rd, 1914 [and was
therefore aged 3j years at the date of his impression].
(2) I thinli " dead " does convey some meaning to him ;
he sees hedgehogs, worms, mice and such like animals
dead, and always asks about them, " Why dead, Dick
wants them ahve again "
—and he screws up his face into
a half tearful state, much as he did when he made the
remark about his father ;
only that time he got very
flushed and was much distressed.
(3) No, I don't think it was a dream in the sense of a
sleeping dream ; he was quiet, but awake. It gave me
the idea of an odd freak. I thinlc he is a child with
an acute imagination and sensitive ; but he's essentially
healthy and full of the joy of life, about the happiest
child we have ever come across.
(4) Enclosed is my sister's account of the incident.
(5) I can't veraciously give an exact date ; but we d d
go back on it after we heard of my husband's death and
fixed it at somewhere between November 8th and 12tli.
The account of Mrs. Russell's sister, Miss M. D. Holt, written
Lxxxvi.] Siwntan eons Cases : Impression not Externalised. 135
from the same address and dated March 17, 1918, is as
follows :
I clearly recollect my sister telling me the following
incident.
She had taken Dicky, her small son, upstairs for his
after dinner rest—the child had been lying quietly on the
bed while she was sewing when suddenly he sat up and
said, " Daddy's dead," My sister said, " Oh no, he's
not, some day he will come back again " ; but Dicky
repeated, " Daddy's dead, Dick knows it," and the child
appeared very distressed, so much so that my sister
thought it best to humour him and turn his thoughts
to something else.
When he had finished his rest, she almost at once found
me and told me about it, but even then it never occurred
to us that the child's words were true.
My brother-in-law was killed on November 6th, 1917,
and I feel almost sure that it was a few days after that
date that this incident happened. Unfortunately neither
of us made a note of the exact date at the time.
[Signed] Mary D. Holt.
The death of Captain Edward Stanley Russell on November
6th, 1917, was announced in the Times of November 20.
It will be observed that in this case evidence of any exact
coincidence is wanting ; but there is no doubt that the little
boy's experience occurred some time before the news of his
father's death was received, and it is almost if not quite
certain that it did not occur before the death itself.
The following case (L. 1176, Journal, Vol. XIV., p. 99)
—an impression concerning illness—was sent to us by
Lady Rayleigii, the account being given in a letter from
the Countess of Leitrim to Lady Rayleigh :
(L. 1176.)
Government House, Natae, Jayiuary 28th, 1909.
Either on Sunday, December 20th, Monday, 21st, or
Tuesday, 22nd, 1908, I was conscious of a very definite
136 Mrs. Henry Sidgioick. [part
knowledge that Lord Rayleigh was seriously ill. I had
no dream about him, but so certain was I of the fact
that, on coming on deck directly after breakfast, I told
my mother, Mrs. Henderson. We were then at sea,
somewhere near the Equator, on our way to Cape Town.
I had never had a definite impression in that way
before, and was therefore particularly careful to tell my
mother at once,
Violet Leitrim.
Mrs. Henderson writes to Lady Rayleigh :
Government House, Natal, January 28ih, 1909.
One morning, in the early part of the week beginning
the 20th of December, 1908, my daughter, Lady Leitrim,
tokl me she had a very strong impression that Lord
Rayleigh was ill. She said she could not understand why
it was, as she had had no dream, but she felt certain
that he was very ill.
Emma C. Henderson.
Lady Rayleigh writes :
March 23rd, 1909.
Lord Rayleigh and I went out to Cape Town in Novem-
ber, 1908. We travelled about a good deal, and on
December 15th Lord Rayleigh was taken suddenly and
violently ill of dysentery, on his way by Cape cart from
Mafeking to Zeerust. He managed to make the journey
to Pretoria next day, and was laid up at Government
House, Pretoria. He was sufficiently recovered to leave
his room for a few hours on December 22nd, and to go
downstairs on the 25th. He was able to travel to
Johannesburg in a sleeping carriage on December 28th.
It was quite impossible for Lady Leitrim to have heard
of his illness, as she was on the sea between Madeira and
Cape Town at the time.
She knew he was in S. Africa, and was looking forward
to possibly meeting him there.
Evelyn Rayleigh,
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Im-pression not Exiernalised. 137
The next case (L. 1103, Journal, Vol. VIII., p. 308)
concerns an alarm of fire.
(L. 1103.)
Mr. Myers writes : The following case was written dowii
next day and sent to me in French by a scientific friend,
who prefers that the narrative should be anonymous.^ He
has had other experiences pointmg to thought-transference.
The value of the coincidence is more than doubled by the
fact that the apprehension was felt also—independently so far
as any ordinary communication went—by the percipient's
sister. F. W. H. M.
On Friday, December 10th, 1897, at about 10.35 p.m.,
being alone and at work in my library, I began to think,
without any reason, that there had been a fire at the
Opera. My wife and daughter had gone off to the Opera
at 8 ; I had not been able to accompany them. The
impression was so strong that I m'ote + F [Feu !] on the
cover of a book which lay near me. A few iiistants
later, wishing to emphasise this presentiment, I wote
" Att " (for attention), " Fire !
". I enclose what I wote.
[Fragment of book- cover sent herewith with the Avords
mentioned.] I did not, however, feel anxious ; but said
to myself, " There has been no great fire at the Opera,
only an alarm of fire."
At the same time, or rather 10 or 1.5 minutes later,
at 10.55, my sister, Mme. B., who lives in the same
house, and whose bedroom is on the same floor with my
study, had an idea that my study was on fire. She was
at the moment on the point of getting into bed, but she
came in deshabille to my study door and put her hand
on the handle to come in ; but then, telling herself that
her fear was absurd, she went back to bed. She tells
me, however, that she would nevertheless have come in,
but that she was afraid that I had someone with me in
the room.
^ There can be no harm now in mentioning that Myers' scientific
friend was Professor Charles Richet, as the latter has recently published
the incident in ]iis book Traite de Metapsychique, p. 352, as his own
experience,
138 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
At 12.10, my wife and daughter came back from the
theatre. They instantly told me that there had been a
sort of beginning of a conflagration. I said nothing,
and they told me as follows :
—Between 8.45 and 9, at
the end of the first act of the Maitres Chanteurs, a smell
of l)urning and a light smoke were perceived in the
auditorium. My wife said to my daughter : "I will i
go out and see what is the matter ; if I make a sign to
you, follow me at once, without saying a word or even ,
waiting to put your cloak on."' The attendant whom she
asked said that nothing was wrong. Nevertheless, there
was some emotion among the audience, and five or six
persons in the stalls got up and went away. The smoke
came, no doubt, from a stove.
Note that this is the first time that my wife ever left j
her seat in a theatre from alarm of fire. It is the first
time that I have ever been anxious about fire in her
absence ; and I do not suppose that I jot down my
possible presentiments more than five or six times in a
year. i
My sister has never before been anxious about fire in i
my room.
With these may be compared two cases in which the
impression was connected with the distress of an animal
identified at the time by the percipient. One was a
vague waking impression of something wrong with the
animal ; the other was a more definite impression in a
dream, but whether there was in the dream any visual
or auditory impression we do not know.
The first of the two cases (L. 1144,^ Jotirnal, Vol. XII.,
p. 21) was received through the kindness of Sir Rider
Haggard.
Lady Carbery had sent it in consequence of the some-
what similar case which he had contributed to The Times
of July 21st, 1904, and which was reprinted in full, with
additional evidence, in the Journal for October, 1904
(see below, p. 219). Lady Carbery wrote to Mr. Haggard :
1 This case is mimbered 1143 in tho Journal by mistake,
Lxxxvi.] spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 139
(L. 1144.)
Castle Feekb, Co. Cork, July 25th, 1904.
Lady Carbery presents her compliments to Mi'. Rider
Haggard, and thinks he may be interested in the enclosed
account of how she was summoned to the help of a
favourite mare. The statement could be confirmed by the
coachman and others. " Kitty " is still alive, ending
her days in the fields among her foals, and doing no
work.
The account enclosed was as follows :
On one hot Sunday afternoon in the summer of 1900,
I went after luncheon to pay my customary visit to the
stables, to give sugar and carrots to the horses, among
the number bemg a favourite mare named Kitty. She
was a shy, nervous, well-bred animal, and there existed
between us a great and unusual sympathy. I used to
ride her every morning before brealifast, whatever the
weather might be—quiet sohtary rides on tlie cliffs which
overhang the sea at Castle Freke—and it always seemed
to me that Kitty enjoyed that hour in the freshness of
the day as much as I did. On this particular afternoon
I left the stables and walked alone to the garden, a
distance of a quarter of a mile, and estabhshed myself
under a tree with an interesting book, fully intending to
remain there for a couple of houi's. After about twenty
minutes an uncomfortable sensation came between me and
my reading, and at once I felt sure that there was some-
thing the matter with Kitty. I tried to put the feeling
from me and to go on with my book, but the impression
grew stronger, and I felt compelled to hasten back to the
stables. I went straight to Kitty's box, and found her
" cast " and in urgent need of help. The stablemen were
in a distant part of the stables, whence I fetched them
to help the mare up. Then- surprise v/as great to find
me in the stables for the second time that afternoon. . . .
This account was sent to us by Sir Rider Haggard, and
Mr. Baggally undertook to make further enquiries into the
case. In reply to his first letter, Lady Carbery wrote :
140 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PABT
Frankfielb House, Co. Cokk, Dec. 21th, 1904.
Lady Carbery . . . would he glad indeed to have the
case investigated, as it has always seemed to her to be
of the greatest possible interest. At the same time it
may be difficult at this date to get a statement from the
stablemen, one of whom is somewhere in England, but
Lady Carbery wUl try to do so. She is absolutely con-
vinced that no one entered the stable. Had the stable-
men done so they would at once have helped the mare to
get up, and any one else would have given the alarm.
It seems a direct case of telepathy from animal mind to
human. . . .
Lady Carbery afterwards sent Mr. Baggally a statement
from her former coachman, Edward Nobbs, as follow :
NosELEY Hael iStables, Near Leicester,
December ^Ist, 1904.
I was coachman at Castle Freke at the time, and Lady
Carbery came to the stables after luncheon as usual on a
Sunday afternoon with carrots and sugar for the horses.
Kitty was then loose in her box and (juite well. I then
went to my rooms over the stables, the other stablemen
being also upstairs, and to my surprise about half an hour
or three quarters later her Ladyship, who had been to
the garden, called me and the other men to come and
help Kitty up, as she was lying cast in her box. No
one had gone into the stable in the interval.
(Signed) Edward Nobbs.
In a letter to Lady Carbery of the same date, enclosing this
account, Edward Nobbs writes :
—" I remember the Sunday
afternoon quite well. Your Ladyship called me from the
bottom of the stairs. Jerome McCarthy helped me with the
aid of one of the clothing rollers. At that time Kitty was
in the centre box. . .
." Lady Carbery tells us that Jerome
McCarthy is now in America.
The second case (L. 1158, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 80)
LXXXVi.J jSpotikmeouti Cases : I^npression not Externalised. 141
comes from an Associate of the Society, Colonel Coghill,
who writes :
(L. 1158.)
CosHEEN, Castle Towkshend,
Co. Cork, April lOth [1906].
The enclosed case of clream premonition may interest
tlie S.P.R. in adding one more instance for the accumula-
tion of cases for investigation. My nephew, Mi-. Penrose,
having mentioned the case to me, I wrote for a little
more information, which, having been added m tlie form
of a statement from the groom, I now beg to forward.
Kendal Coghill.
The narrative written by Mr. Pem-osc and signed by the
groom is as foUows :
LiSMORE, Ireland.
On April 2nd [1906], between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m., Robert
Glynn, coachman to J. Pem'ose, Esq., woke suddenly,
having ch'eamed that a mare under his charge had foaled
and that he was badly wanted. He immediately di'essed
and went to the stable, which was about 20 or 30 yards
distant from his house, and found the mare had just
foaled. The foal was extremely weak, and would un-
doubtedly have died if he liad not come when he did
to give it assistance.
The mare was 17 days before her time, being due to
foal on April 19th. He had not looked at her for two
or three days previously, and there were no symptoms of
prematurity nor was he in any anxiety about the foaling.
She had had several foals before and had never mis-
carried before. He did not say anything to his wife
before going out to the mare, as she was asleep. He had
been in the habit for some days back of getting up early
to look at a cow that was exjjected to calve ; but on this
occasion the dream was so vivid he went straight to the
mare's stable as soon as he was dressed. He heard no
sounds of distress from the mare.
The above is exactly according to the facts stated.
(Signed) Robert Glynn.
142 Mrs. Hennj Sidgwick. [pabt
§ 9. True Impressions. Doubtful Agents.
We may conveniently take next three cases of mental or
emotional impressions in dreams. In none can we point
to a particular agent, though in all the fact suggested
by the dream was known to some living people. The
first (G. 237, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 105) may have been
due to telepathy from the dead brother, though if so it is
not explained why the impression should have occurred
just when it did—a few hours before the cablegram which
had " been advisedly kept over " reached the percipient.
From this point of view this case belongs to a small
class, which we shall have to discuss later, where the time
at which the impression is received seems oddly to depend
on the fact that news of the event corresponding to the
impression was approaching the percipient. It is possible in
the present case that the telepathic impression came from
the i^erson responsible for keeping over the cablegram. .f
t
(G. 237.)
The case was received through the American Branch from
Miss E. H. Kitching. Both witnesses were known to Dr.
Hodgson.
Miss Kitching writes : i;
141, WiiST 60th Street, New York, i
April 29th, 1890.
The following is full information as to this experience,
which, by the way, is the only one I ever had. '
I will say, in the first place, that I am unusually
strong and robust, and have always been in perfect health,
and also that I have always had a secret belief that only
unliealthy and morbid people are subject to psychical
experiences. '
My brother, J. Howard Kitching, who from his birth
suffered from heart disease, was obliged, on account of
his ill health, to leave this country in February, 1887.
He was appointed U.S. Consular Agent to Bone, Algeria,
where he remained until his death, which occurred August
20th, 1888. He grew steadily better in that climate,
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. US
and my motlier and I had reason to hope he would
ultimately become strong. In August, however, he became
ill again, and cUed, havkig carefully kept from us the fact
of his illness. At the time of his death we were at
Saratoga, N.Y. The cablegram announcing his death,
havmg been advisedly kept over in New York, did not
reach us till noon on the 23rd of August. Early in the
morning of the 23rd (it may have been at four or five
o'clock, but I do not know the exact hour) I experienced,
while lymg asleep in bed, a distressing mental impression,
as though somethmg dreadful were taking place in con-
nection Avith my brother, and I awoke with the conviction
that he was dead. The mental stress was very painful
while it lasted, but as soon as I was completely awake
I thought no more about it, until the cablegram came
at noon informing us that my brother had died on the
20th.
Even if the impression had weighed on my mmd durmg
the morning (which it did not), I should not have spoken
of it to my mother, for fear of causmg her anxiety.
My brother was always extremely mterested in psychical
research, and had some very mterestmg experiences in
hypnotism, which power he developed while at Bone. I,
however, as I said before, have had no psychical experience
except this one.
Edith Howard Kitching.
In reply to Mr. Hodgson's request for corroboration, Mi-s.
Kitching A\Tote as follows :
141, West 60th Street, May 8th, 1890.
Dear Sir,—As to the statement sent to you by my
daughter, Edith Kitching, I wish to say that she did not
mention to me the fact that she had received a mental
communication before the receipt of the cablegram, an-
noimcing the death of her brother, but some hours after-
wards, after receiving and reading it, she instantly said,
"I knew it," and then told me of her experience as
written to you. Harriet B. Kitching.
144 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
In the next case (P. 269, Journal, Vol. X., p. 28) there
is no one hving or dead who is marked out as direct
agent, since the persons who possessed the information
received by the percipient were entirely unknown to her,
and probably did not know of her existence. It would
seem that if the information reached her telepathically it
was probably in some way through her brother.
(P. 269.)
The following account came from Miss Agnes E. Walker, of
13, Stafford Mansions, Albert Bridge Road, London, S.W.
Both Miss Walker and the brother (Mr. Bernard Walker),
who was the subject of her dream, are known to Mr. J. G.
Piddington, to whom the letters relating to the dream were
addressed.
Miss Walker writes :
13, Staffobd Mansions, Albert Bridge Road,
London, S.W., April 26th, 1900.
Dear Mr. Piddington,—You asked me to send you a
written statement about a dream, and I do so with much
pleasure.
Li June, 1897, my youngest brother, B., having passed
the examination for a clerkship in Somerset House, but
being miable to obtain the actual appointment until a
vacancy occurred, threw up work he was then doing in
London and went home to Devonshire, intending to take
a month or two of lioKday before entermg Somerset House.
He was not able to get any information as to when a
vacancy would occur, as there are no age retirements,
and could only learn that the vacancies averaged three a
year.
I remained in London. My brother waited at home a
whole year and no vacancies occurred.
One night in June, 1898—I cannot give the exact date,
but I think it was about the 20th or 23rd—I dreamt
that my brother received his appointment on the 19th of
July. There was nothing else in the dream—merely the
one perfectly vivid fact of the date. I thought very
Uttle of it, but in writing to my brother in a day or two,
LXxxvi.] Spantaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 145
I mentioned that I had had this dream, and that I
hoped it was a good omen.
Naturally no one attached any importance to it, and
the letter was m due course destroyed ;
though my brother
did not forget it, and kejit the date in his head.
On the 19th of July he received an official notice from
Somerset House that he was appointed to a clerkship
there, and telegraphed to me to that effect.
We have much regretted since that the letter was
destroyed, but the fact of the dream and the date was
known to all my family before its fulfilment ; and I send
you the signature of the brother concerned, and of other
members of the family who can testify to the accuracy
of this statement.—Yours faithfully,
Agnes E. Walker.
The signatures of other members of Miss Walker's family
folloAv her o"\vn, as below :
Bebnabd S. Walker.
Charles H. Walker.
J. B. Walker.
Ethel A. Walker.
E. I. Walker.
N. Walker.
In reply to enquiries, Miss Walker writes again to Mr.
Piddington :
June 25fh [1900].
. . . My brother's name was first m the Mst for a
whole year, for the next appointment, which could only
be given in case of a death or retirement. Jxi his case
a vacancy occurred by the retirement of some one in one
of the provincial branches, which was filled up—as I
beheve they always are—from Somerset House, and caused
a general move up. It seems most probable that a few
weeks before my brother received his appointment these
coming changes must have been known to the Registrar,
and he would, I should think, be most hkely to note
the next name on the fist.
146 Mrs. Henry Sidgunck. [part
I find that the official letter, informing my brother of
his appointment, is dated July 18th, and is signed by Mr.
David Owen, the head registrar. . . .
Agnes E. Walker.
Mr. Piddmgton writes :
November Uth, 1900.
In an interview A\hich I liad with the Head Registrar
at Somerset House this morning, he informed me that the
fact of a vacancy having occurred would certainly be
known either to himself or to some otlier of the officials
some weeks before the next appointment would be made,
and the first name on the hst of successful candidates
would be noted. Consequently, if the case be not regarded
as one of pure comcidence, we can suppose that Miss
A. E. Walker in her dream state acquired her information
telepathically from one of the Somerset House officials ;
for, although the Head Registrar did not say that the
precise date of a new appomtment would be settled as
soon as a vacancy was known to have occurred, still it
is permissible to assume that the apjyrox'miate date would
or could then be Imown to the official or officials in-
terested.
As to the evidence of the actual date of Mr. Walker's ap-
pomtment, Mr. Piddmgton writes later :
November 20fh, 1900.
Miss A. E. Wallcer has sent me the official letter signed
by the Senior Registrar, D. N. (or D. W.) Owen. It is
dated July 18th, 1898, and is addressed to B. S. Walker,
Esq. The envelope, an official one, bearing the stamp
of the " High Court of Justice, Probate Registry," bears
also the following post-mark : " London. 6.30 p.m.
Official paid. 16. 18 Jy. 98." (16 is presumably a
post-office mark which signifies the mail by which the
letter was dispatched.) The letter is addressed to Bernard
S. Wallcer, Esq., Walldiampton, Horrabridge, S. Devon.
But the Horrabridge post-mark is not on the envelope.
Doubtless, though, a letter dispatched from London at
LXXXVI.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 147
6.30 p.m. on July IStli would reach Horrabridge on July
19th.
Another case (L. 1127, Journal, Vol. X., p. 140) ex-
tremely like this, except that there was apparently a
visual element in the dream (the percipient says, " As
to how I dreamt ... I only knew I had had the list
in my hand with R.'s name 6th "), was sent to us by
Dr. H. W. M'Connel of Matlaske Hall, Normch, an
Associate of the Society, to whom the principal witnesses
in the case were well known, and who carefully collected
the evidence.
(L. 1127.)
Dr. M'Connel drew up the following statement as the result
of a conversation with Miss F. (the dreamer), and afterwards
showed it to her to make sure of its correctness :
On February 26th, 1900, I dreamt that my brother
passed sixth in an examination for the Naval Medical.
The letter with result came from the Admiralty on the
28th, and the dream was found correct. The examination
was from February 19th-23rd, and I knew that my brother
was up in London at it. I was in Edinburgh, and I
had no reason for supposing that he might come out any
special place. The dream was between 2 a.m. and 8 a.m.
on the night of the 26th, and my brother only returned
from London on March 1st. I attached no importance
at the time to the number in the dream, only feeling
depressed at having dreamt he had passed at all, as
dreams go very contrary ; but fortunately I told the
dream that same morning to my brother and sister and
a friend. A. C. F.
This is undated, but Mss F. answered further questions
on January 10, 1901, and corroboration of her having told
the dream before its veridicality was known was sent by
the brother and sister mentioned on January 21, 1901.
It was ascertained from one of the examiners that the
meeting at which the results of the examination were
148 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
determined took place in the evening of February 26
—
that is, a few hours before the dream, and the letter
from the Admiralty announcing the result was posted to
the candidate's home address on the 27th. He did not
himself learn it till the 28th. According to the Times of
March 5, 1900, there were twenty names in the list, that
of the candidate in question being sixth. The full evidence
will be found set out in the Journal. I
A very similar incident—a mother's veridical dream that
her son passed out 8th before she could have heard of
it—is mentioned in the course of an account of a series
of veridical dreams and impressions of a Mrs. B., also
sent to us by Dr. M'Connel, to whom Mrs. B. was well
known ; hut this particular incident was recorded nearly |
twelve years after the event. See L. 1128, Journal, Vol.
X., pp." 161-170.
§ 10. Mental Vision of complicated event.
I will conclude this chapter with a case (L. 1160, Journal, ;
Vol. XIII., p. 110) in which the percipient has a vision— i
apparently not externahsed, a vision in the mind's eye— |
of the condition and surroundings of the agent. I have \
already quoted one such case (L. 1152, see above, p. 58)
among semi-experimental cases, though it might quite well
have been placed in the present section. Both in that
case and in the one to be quoted the percipient's mind
was normally directed to the agent. Without this we can
hardly suppose that in the first case the impression would
have occurred, and it is at least highly probable that this
preoccupation facilitated the impression in the second case.
The case has the advantage from an evidential point of
view that the vision represented a very definite and
presumably unusual incident. The case comes from
America, and Dr. Hodgson first received a second or
third hand account written ten days earlier than the
one we print, but substantially agreeing with it, from
Mrs. Ward, a sister of the percipient, Mrs. Robinson.
Both ladies were Associates of the American Branch, 1
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression not Externalised. 149
(L. 1160.)
The percipient Mrs. Robinson writes to Dr. Hodgson :
BoNNYcoT, Anchorage,
Kentucky, June 1th, 1903.
In compliance with my sister's request and yours as well
as with my own interest in psychic phenomena, I shall
write you of this last experience that came to me on the
night of May 17th.
My son and a friend had driven across the country to
dine and spend the evening with friends. The rest of
the household had retired for the night. I was awakened
by the telephone and looked at the clock, findmg it 11.30
p.m. I knew my son would soon be in and thought of
a window dowiistairs which I felt might not have been
locked, and determined to remain awake and ask my son
to make sure that it was secure. As I lay waiting and
hstening for him I suddenly saw their vehicle, a hght
break-cart, turn over, my son jump out, land on his feet,
run to the struggling horse's head, his friend hold to the
lines, and m a moment it was gone and I knew it was
right and felt no disturbance.
I met my son as he came in and spoke of the wuidow.
He said: "We tipped over, mother." I replied "Yes.
I know it, I saw you," and described what I saw as I
have to you, which he said was just as it happened.
He also said : "I thought for a moment the horse would
go up over the railroad tracks," and then I remembered
that the horse, as I saw him, was thrown up an embank-
ment. I said: "This happened about half-an-hour ago."
He looked at his watch, it was 12.15, and said "Yes."
I did not see them before they started out, as his friend
called for him with his horse and vehicle, and I did not
know m what style they went. . . .
Helen Avery Robinson.
Mrs. Robinson's son confirms the account as foUoAvs :
June 23rd, 1903.
On Sunday night. May 17th, I was driving with a friend
from Glenview to Anchorage, Kentucky. We left Glenview
150 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
at about eleven o'clock. We were in a break-cart, and my
friend was driving a young and spirited horse. There
was no moon, and we could see indistinctly by star-Ught.
About twelve o'clock, when about two miles from home,
we were driving along the edge of a wood with a deep
railroaxl cut on our right. The top of this embankment
had lately been levelled off and my friend mistook it
for the road, which was just beside the embankment and,
in the faint light, seemed to be about level with it.
When I called his attention to his mistake he turned
dowii into the road and overturned the cart. We were
both thrown out. The horse was startled and began
rearing. I ran around the cart after him and took him
by the bridle, although my friend had not lost his hold
on the rems. We righted the cart and got home with-
out further accident. The family had been in bed for
some time, but my mother had been aroused at eleven-
thirty by the telephone. As I came in she gave me the
message. I told her that we had overturned the cart.
She then told me that she had seen the accident at twelve
o'clock and, without suggestion from me, described it
accurately. She had seen me thrown out backward and
Imew how I had rmi around after the frightened horse to
catch his bridle, which I did only after he had turned
completely around.
Avery Robinson,
Lxxxvi.] S'pontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised 151
CHAPTER III.
Spontaneous Cases in which the Percipient's Impres-
sion IS externalised as a Waking Hallucination.
Also Dreams of the same Character.
§ 1. Death Coincidences.
Waking hallucinations of the senses corresponding
with an external event unknown to the percipient afford
on the whole the most striking evidence of telepathic
communication between agent and percipient, chiefly
because such waking hallucinations are themselves rare.
Most of us go through life without having experienced
one. At the same time, rare as they are, their occur-
rence is most often not veridical—it is only in a minority
of cases that there is ground for supposing them to
have a telepathic origin. It is therefore necessary to
examine carefuUy not only the evidence for the hal-
lucinatory nature of the percipient's experience, but that
for the definite character of the agent's, as well as the
degree of correspondence in time and otherwise between
the two. One of the most definite possible events on the
side of the agent, and one concerning which there can
seldom be any mistake, is his death. I will therefore take
first the class of death coincidences—meaning by a death
coincidence an apparition or other hallucinatory experience
or dream occurring within twelve hours of the death,
before or after it.
Death Coincidences—(a) Realistic Apparitions.
By a realistic apparition I mean one that appears like
a real person in the percipient's surroundings.
152 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pakt
Perhaps the best evidenced death comcidence in the
present collection is the realistic apparition of Lieutenant
M'Connel (L. 1226, Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 76). It was
spoken of by the percipient to another person, who corro-
borates, before it was realised that it was not the living
man, and it was recorded in writing within fifteen days of
the event. The case reached us through Sir Oliver Lodge,
to whom a report was sent in the first instance. The
apparition was that of Lieut. David E. M'Connel, R.A.F.,
who was killed in a flying accident on December 7, 1918,
and the percipient was one of his fellow-officers, Lieut.
J. J. Larkin, R.A.F. The earliest report of the occurrence
was contained in a letter to Sir Oliver Lodge from Lieut.
M'Connel's father, Mr. D. R. M'Connel, who writes thus :
(L. 1226.)
January 16, 1919.
Knowing your interest in psychical affairs, I take the
Hberty of giving you the particulars of the reported
appearance of my son at the time of his death through
an accident while flying. I enclose the copy of the
written statement of Lieut. Jas. J. Larkin of Scampton
Aerodrome, to whom the appearance was made. I heard
of the occurrence at my son's funeral on the 11th December
(he was killed on the 7th December) and wrote as soon
as I could to Lieut. Larkin, who replied on the 22nd
December. The statement made to me on the 11th by
Lieut. Hillman, who has attested the correctness of the
account given, corresponds accurately with the account
itself. Lieut. Hillman had not been back to Scampton,
or seen Lieut. Larkin, between the time of the funeral
and the writing of the account. Lieut. Hillman wrote
his attestation on reading the account in my house. The
event seems to have made a very vivid impression on the
two or three of my son's friends who heard of it. . . .
One other matter of fact I may mention. My son was
fully dressed for fl3dng, with helmet, when he started. We
happen to have a snapshot of him taken by a feUow-
officer just before he climbed into the " camel " which he
flew. The account states that he " appeared " with his
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 153
naval cap on. My son began his flying career in March
last, entering through the R.N.A.S. before the amalgama-
tion of the R.N.A.S. with the R.F.C. His elder brother
had entered the R.N.A.S. and my son David was proud
of his connection with the earUer service. Havmg a
complete kit of the naval fljnng service, he always wore
the naval flying xmtform about the aerodrome, and was
one of only three at the drome who had followed the
same course in entermg. His naval uniform was there-
fore weU known. It would not be at aU an unusual thing
that he should have taken off his uncomfortable helmet
on arriving back at the hangar, and exchanged it for his
naval cap. Under the circumstances, however, it is to
be remarked that he wore his helmet at the time of the
accident ; and in the appearance to Lieut. Larkin wore
the naval cap. His mother informs me that he was
dressed, as usual, in his naval miform below his flymg
things, and that he had his naval cap with him in the
fusilage to wear on reaching Tadcaster—the usual action.
The O.C. states that my son left Scampton for Tadcaster
at 11.35 a.m. December 7, '18.
The circumstances of the flight were as follows. My
son, with other officers, had been to a dance at Lincoln
on the night of the 6th December. He got up rather
late on the morning of the 7th, missed parade, and also
had no breakfast. The formal completion of all his tests
for " getting his wings " were to take place on the 7th.
As the account states, he was on his way to start for
the Aerial Range to shoot off those final tests when he
was asked by the O.C. to take one of two " camels
"
to Tadcaster. He went therefore unexpectedly, rather
fatigued, and without food. I may say here that his
O.C. considered him a " bom flyer," and that he was a
very cautious and careful flyer, though not shirldng neces-
sary risks. By most unusual favour, he had been accepted
for permanent service before he had won his " wings "
—
had been nommated for an mstructorship in flying, and
was to have left for the Camp of Instructors on the
Monday following Saturday, 7th December. The weather
was fair when he left Scampton to fly to Tadcaster a
154 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
distance of 60 miles. He was accompanied by another
" Avro " plane—a 2-seater—which was to have brought
him back to Scampton after dehvery of the " camel."
You are probably aware that a " camel " scout plane is a
notoriously difficult and sensitive one, and requires con-
tinued strain and effort to keep it dovm. At Doncaster
the two planes ran mto fog. My son and his Avro
companion descended, and my son described the situation
to his flight commander and asked for instructions by
telephone. The reply was "Use your own discretion."
We suppose that my son's anxiety to finish his tests
prompted him to continue. His companion states that
neither of them lunched at Doncaster. Between Don-
caster and Tadcaster the fog became very thick. The
Avro man had to come down, and made a forced landing,
successfully. My son circled round him to see that he
was all right and continued his flight to Tadcaster. Sixty
miles is not a long flight. But the fog was very dense.
In order to keep touch with the sohd a flyer has to keep
his plane mader such circumstances about 150 ft. above
the surface of the ground—a feat in a camel of considerable
difficulty. My son must have encountered difficulty, as
he did not approach Tadcaster till nearly 3.30. Allowing
for 1^ or I hour for the descent at Doncaster, he must
have been flying for about 3| to 3| hours on this occasion.
I am told that it is as much as an ordinary flyer can do
to fly a camel for 2 hours. The strain on the arms is
intense. In fact, his mother, who saw his body on
Monday the 9th at midday, observed that his hands were
tightly clenched and his forearms swollen. As he at last
approached the Tadcaster Aerodrome, the machme was
seen approaching by a man on the road about \ mile
distant from the camp, who reported the fog to be ex-
tremely dense. During the evidence at the inquest a
girl, or yoimg woman, said she was watching the plane,
and saw it apparently " side-shp," then right itself. It
flew steadily for a minute or two, then moimted suddenly
and immediately " nose-dived " and crashed. The engine
was full on when the crash occurred. My son was thrown
violently forward—his head striking the gun before him,
LXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 155
which was not hooded. One arm was broken, one leg
was torn. The girl ran to the spot and " found the officer
dead." The violence of contact seems to have stopped his
watch, which registered 3.25 p.m. His cigarette case
was almost doubled up. These are the circumstances of
the accident, so far as I am aware of them. I am
informed by flying men that the reaction on reaching
safety after a difficult flight is so " terrible," that fainting
is not unknown. My son, it is thought, may have fainted ;
hence the crash, and his inabihty to save himself. Or
there was possibly engine trouble. I am told also that
when shot, or in danger, the immediate thought of the
flyer is usually a quite trivial one, such as the sudden
desire for a cup of cocoa, or to get undressed at camp,
etc. I mention this because the " appearance " was not
made at my son's home, or to his mother, who was there
at the time, but in his own camp-room, and to a person
who was a comparative stranger. However, his mother
did have a strange impression at the hour of his death,
of which she is writing an account herewith enclosed.^
My son had a happy, even joyous disposition. He had
a brisk step and manner which would account for the
" noise and clatter," which Lieut. Larkin remarked and
reports in his account. My son was 18 on the 15th
April, 1918, having left Bedales School, Hants, before
mihtary age, to enter the R.N.A.S. He had been head-
boy at Bedales during that winter term. He was the
youngest headboy Bedales had had. ... At Scampton,
as at school, his conduct, character, and disposition made
him as much loved as respected. His friends and his
0.0. report that, though they are aU accustomed to the
sudden deaths which repeatedly occur, when the news
of David's death reached camp, the camp was completely
" broken up."
I write these words to you that you may see what bear-
ing his character may have had on the " appearance,"
if indeed character has any influence in such things.
David R. M'Connel.
iThis account was sent to the Society, but not printed in the Journal.
156 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick.
Enclosed with Mr. M'Connel's letter was an account by
Lieut. Larldn of his experience, together with two corroborative
statements from fellow-officers, thus :
'
'
34 T.D.S., Royal Air Force,
ScAMPTON, Lincoln, December 22, 1918.
David [M'Connel], in his flying clothes, about 11 a.m.
went to the hangars intending to take a machine to the
" Aerial Range " for machine gun practice. He came
into the room again at 11.30 and told me that he did
not go to the range, but that he was taking a " camel "
to Tadcaster drome. He said, " I expect to get back in
time for tea. Cheero." He wallied out and half a
minute later, knocked at the window and asked me to
hand him out his map, which he had forgotten. After
I had Imich, I spent the afternoon writing letters and
reading, sitting in front of the stove fire. What I am
about to say now is extraordinary to say the least, but
it happened so naturally that at the time I did not give
it a second thought. I have heard and read of similar
happenings and I must say that I always disbeheved
them absolutely. My opinion had always been that the
persons to whom these appearances were given were people
of a nervous, highly-strung, imagmative temperament, but I
had always been among the incredulous ones and had been
only too ready to pooh-pooh the idea. I was certainly
awake at the time, reading and smoking. I was sitting,
as I have said, in front of the fire, the door of the room
being about eight feet away at my back. I heard some-
one walldng up the passage ; the door opened with the
usual noise and clatter which David always made ; I
heard his " Hello boy !
" and I turned half round in my
chair and saw him standing in the doorway, half in and
half out of the room, holding the door knob in his hand.
He was dressed in his full flying clothes but wearing his
naval cap, there being nothing imusual in his appearance.
His cap was pushed back on his head and he was smihng,
as he always was when he came into the rooms and
greeted us. In reply to his " HeUo boy !
" I remarked,
" Hello ! back akeady ?
" He repUed, " Yes. Got there
:LXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 157
all right, had a good trip." I am not positively sure
of the exact words he used, but he said, " Had a good
trip," or ' Had a fine trip," or words to that effect. I
was looking at him the whole time he was speaking. He
said, " Well, cheero !
" closed the door noisily and went out.
I went on with my reading and thought he had gone to
\asit some friends in one of the other rooms, or perhaps
had gone back to the hangars for some of his flying gear,
helmet, goggles, etc., which he may ha\e forgotten. I
did not have a watch, so could not be sure of the time,
but was certain it was between a quarter and half-past
three, because shortly afterwards Lieut. Gamer-Smith
came into the room and it was a quarter to four. He
said, ' I hope Mac (David) gets back early, we are going
to Lincohi this evening." I repUed, " He is back, he was
in the room a few minutes ago !
" He said, "Is he having
tea ?
" and I rei^hed that I did not think so, as he (Mac)
had not changed his clothes, but that he was probably
in some other room. Gamer-Smith said, " I'U try and
find him !
" I then went into the mess, had tea, and
afterwards dressed and went to Lincoln. Li the smoking
room of the Albion Hotel I heard a group of officers
talking, and overheard their conversation and the words
"crashed," " Tadcaster " and " M'Connel." I joined them
and they told me that just before they had left Scampton,
word had come through that M'Connel had " crashed
"
and had been killed taking the " Camel " to Tadcaster.
At that moment I did not beheve it, that he had been
killed on the Tadcaster joumey. My impression was that
he had gone up again after I had seen him, as I felt
positive that I had at 3.30. Naturally I was eager to
> hear something more definite, and later in the evening I
heard that he had been killed on the Tadcaster joumey.
Next moming, Gamer-Smith and I had a long discussion
about my experience. He tried to persuade me that I
must have been mistaken, that I had not actually seen
Mac on the previous afternoon about 3.30, but I insisted
that I had seen him. As you can understand, Mr.
M'Connel, I was at a loss to solve the problem. There
was no disputing the fact that he had been killed whilst
•58 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. '
[paM
flying to Tadcaster, presumably at 3.25, as we ascertained
afterwards that his watch had stopped at that time. I
tried to persuade myself that I had not seen him or
spoken to him in this room, but I could not make myself
beUeve otherwise, as I was mideniably awake and his
appearance, voice, manner had all been so natural. I
am of such a sceptical nature regarding things of this
kmd that even now I wish to think otherwise, that I
did not see him, but I am unable to do so.
The foregoing are just the plain facts of the case.
Would you please give me your opinion ? I have given
you every detail and described easily and naturally just
as it happened. I must thank you very much for David's
photograph. I shall always treasure it. We had been
very good friends though not intimate friends in the true
sense of the word, as though I had known him for about
four months, we had been room-mates for about six
weeks only. We had lots of discussions, political, social,
and educational, but not once did we discuss anything
bordering on the occult or spiritual. Had we done so,
I would perhaps have been able to account, in a measure,
for his appearance in this room at the time of his death.
As it is, I have no explanation whatever to offer.
Jas. J. Larkin, 2nd Lt. E.A.F.
CORROBOKATIVE STATEMENTS.
Mr. Larldn has related almost word for word what he
told me on the afternoon of the 7th [December, 1918],
at about a quarter to four. Knowing the type of man
he is, I most certamly beUeve this strange occurrence, but
am at a loss to explam it.
Gerard Garner-Smith, Lt. E.A.F.
On Sunday mornmg, December 8th [1918], Mr. Larkin
told me the story exactly as he has written it down here.
I have known Larldn rather intimately for some time,
and although at any other time I would have been in-
clined to disbelieve a story of this nature, knowmg Larkin
as I do and as he is, I am convinced of his story as he
has told it. R. Mowat Hillman, Lt. R.A.F.
LXXXVi.] Spontaneotis Cases : Impression Externalised. 159
In reply to a further enquiry, the following letter was
received from Lieut. Larkin giving additional details concerning
the circumstances in which his experience took place
;
Repatriation Depot, R.A.F.,
Blandeord, Dorset, June 27, 1919.
The Society already has my detailed description of
the occurrence—regarding the time, it was about 3.25,
or rather between 3.20 and 3.30 p.m. The room was
quite small, about 12 feet square, and at the time the
electric hght was on and also a good fire burning in an
open stove. I may mention that the Ught was particularly
good and bright, and there were no shadows or half
shadows in the room. Outside it was still quite hght,
but being a foggy, cold day, I had my door closed and
the light on and the fixe going. I thmk that is aU the
additional information you require, as I understand from
Mr. M'Connel's letter. Jas. J. Larkin, 2nd Lt. R.A.F.
Lieut. Gamer-Smith's corroborative statement supphes evi-
dence that Lieut. Larkin had identified the man who entered
his room on December 7, 1918, as Lieut. M'Connel before he
could have had any normal knowledge of the accident which
had only just occurred. The identification cannot therefore
be due to any trick of memory consequent on the news of
the accident. That being so, the only normal explanation
which could be made to cover the facts would be one of
mistaken identity. It was with this possibihty in mind that
we questioned Lieut. Larkin concerning the fighting of
the room. Obviously such a mistake would be far more
likely to occur in a dim hght. Lieut. Larkin 's reply on this
point is satisfactory. The fight, he teUs us, was good, and
under these circumstances it is very difiicult to suppose that
Lieut. Larkin could mistake a man, with whom he actuaUy
had conversation at a distance of only a few feet, for another
man with whose voice and appearance he was perfectly familiar.
A further argument against the theory of mistaken identity
is that Lieut. Larkin observed that the man who entered his
room was wearing a naval cap. This was worn by only two
other men at the aerodrome besides Lieut. M'Connel, neither
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [vAWt
of whom, as we are assured by Mr. M'Connel who is person-
ally acquainted with them, "could either in height, or build,
or manner, or voice, have been mistaken for my son."
I may add to these observations of the Editor, that,
apart from other reasons given, the hypothesis of mistaken
identity seems very difficult to maintain in face of the
recognition, not only of appearance, but of voice and of
manner of entering the room. Indeed, it would almost
seem as if the person mistaken for Lieutenant M'Connel,
if there was one, must have taken on his semblance to an
extent amounting to a monstrous illusion, approaching so
nearly to hallucination that its occurrence at the very
time, or within a few minutes of Lieutenant M'Connel's
death, would itself suggest the operation of telepathy.
It will be observed that we know the apparition to
have been seen within a few minutes of the death, but
not whether it occurred before or after or at the actual
moment. If it preceded the death. Lieutenant M'Connel
dreaming in a fainting condition may have imagined his
expedition successfully accomplished and himself returned
to his quarters. In this case the details of the apparition
may have been due to the agent. They are, however,
also what might naturally be supplied by the percipient^
given the time and place. A case in which the appari-
tion occurred during a period of unconsciousness of the
agent, and undoubtedly before his actual death is L.977
(see below, p. 203).
We may take next the only other death coincidence in
our collection in which the apparition speaks (L. 1146,
Journal, Vol. XII., p. 59).
(L. 1146.)
The case was sent to us by Professor A. Alexander of Rio,
who writes regarding it as follows :
Caixa 906, Rio DE Janeiro, February 4dh, 1905.
. . . You will see that it is one of deferred visual and
auditory hallucination announcing the death of the ap-
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 161
parent agent. The deposition of the percipieAt and of her
husband and daughter is contained in that part of my
narrative which begins mth the words, " Now before his
death Cavalcante—" and ends with "—normal cause
be found to account for the noise." The Riekens, so
far as I could make out, have never troubled them-
selves about spirituahstic matters, but they gave their
evidence frankly and without reserve. The thing happened
and they told me how it happened. The gu-l looked upon
the hallucination merely as a jjroof that her mother was
superstitious. Superstition alone does not explain away
the coincidence. Telepathic agency is all the more prob-
able for the reason that between Frau Rieken and her
intended son-in-law there existed much sympathy and
affection. On my first visit to Copacabana I examined
the room where the apparition was seen. . . .
The account written by Professor Alexander is as follows :
In the first half of November, 1904, popular disorders
in Rio de Janeiro, which were ostensibly a protest against
the government project of obligatory vaccination, culmin-
ated in the revolt of the Military School. Marching
from their quarters on the evening of the 14th of that
month, imder the command of General Travassos, the
students met and scattered the police force sent to inter-
cept them. The firing took place about 11 o'clock p.m.
at the spot where the Rua da Passagem opens on to the
Botafogo shore. The neighbouring gas-lamps had been
extinguished and the night was very dark, so that it is
impossible to loiow the exact details of all that occurred.
It is certain, however, that one of the first victims of this
encomater was the alferes-alum.no, ^ Joao Sylvestre Caval-
cante, who was, it seems, wounded in the back as he
retired from a parley with the general in command of the
pohce and then killed outright by a second shot through
the head. This occurrence was partly witnessed by his
comrade. Ensign Potyguara, who led a company in the
1
A military student who in the course of his studies has attained to
the rank of ensign.
162 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. ' • ^
[part
vanguard. The written deposition of the latter is here
S^^*^^ •
^ " S. Christovam, January 2Uh, 1905.
" I declare that on the night between the 14th and 15th
of November, about 11 o'clock in the evening, the MiUtary
School, under the command of General Travassos, having
halted in the Rua da Passagem, the alferes-alumno Joao
Sylvestre Cavalcante was sent by the said general to
parley with General Piragibe, who was in command of
the poUce brigade. Immediately after the parley, as
the said alferes-alumno was returning, he was shot in the
back by a bullet that came from the police brigade. On
passing by me he told me he was woimded, and riding
(by my advice) to the rear of the School, he fell im-
mediately afterwards, and was dragged for a short distance
by the horse which he was riding.
" N.B.—When the alferes-ahimno Joao Sylvestre Caval-
cante was crossing the Rua da Passagem, he was wounded
by a Mauser bullet in the right parietal [bone], and this
shot killed him. "Ensign Tertuliano Potyguara."
This account of the death is said to be current among the
mihtary students who are now detained in the different barracks
awaiting their trial by court-martial.^ One of these, Mario
Clementino de Carvalho, declares that they left their quarters
shortly after 10 o'clock and exchanged shots with the poUce
about 11—certainly not later than 11.15. He struck a match,
and looked at Cavalcante after he had fallen. The poor lad
lay in a muddy gutter, his horse dead on the pavement
beside him. The evidence of this witness and others deter-
mines within narrow Umits the time of the death. It must
have taken place between a quarter to eleven and a quarter
past, and most probably just about the hour itself.
Now before his death Cavalcante had become engaged to a
certain Fraulein Maria Luiza Rieken, the daughter of Herr
1 Professor Alexander sends us tlie original Portuguese statement of
this witness, as well as his translation of it.
—
Editoe.
^ One of the officers who was with General Piragibe thinks that
Cavalcante fell at the first shot. Probably the account of the students
is the correct one.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised.
Rieken, a thriving military tailor established in this city, and
of Frau Louise Rieken. This family hves at No. 20a Rua
Barata Ribeiro, Copacabana, and, as the fiance of the daughter,
Cavalcante, who hved close by, was of course a constant visitor
at the house, and was accustomed to take his early coffee
there before proceediiig to the School. On the mommg of
the 14th he had returned at 9 o'clock to breakfast, which he
shared with 'Miml,' as the young lady was famiharly called.
He was in good spirits, and although there was some pecuh-
arity in his manner of taking leave, it is not hkely that he
had any presentiment of his approaching fate. Shortly before,
indeed, he had made the hypothesis of his own. death a subject
I
for jest. He left Copacabana never to return there ahve.
No reports whatever respecting the adhesion of the School
to the insurrectionary movement reached the family that day.
About 11 p.m. by their house clock (which was, however,
too slow) a sound of firing was heard from over the hill,
i But when, in spite of the advanced hour, Cavalcante did not
i return, Frau Rieken felt very anxious, and for some time
after she had rethed to bed this state of uneasiness kept her
awake. The room occupied by her and her husband is in
the upper part of the house, but as it is a small one and
fiUed with large-sized furniture, the door is left wide open
for the sake of ventilation. She had already heard the clock
strike two ; it was therefore between 2 and 3 o'clock in the
morning when she suddenly saw Cavalcante standing at the
entrance looking in upon her. He leant against the side of
the door, his right hand raised and holding to the jamb and
his left arm behind his back. He did not wear the regulation
uniform in which he had been killed, but presented himself
in the khaki undress he usually wore at home—on his head
a felt hat with the brim turned down and a rose-coloured
neckerchief round his neck. He seemed to be covered with mud
and his face was overcast with sadness. " Guarda 3Iimt,"
he said. ("Take care of Mimi.") Frau Rieken 's first surprise
was succeeded by a sense of the impropriety of his being in
that part of the house at such an hour, and she was about
to awake her husband. But on looking again the doorway
was a blank—Cavalcante had vanished—it was but a vision.
Next morning, before any news had reached them, she told
164 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Herr Rieken and her daughter of her strange nocturnal ex-
perience. Neither of them was willing to beheve that the
vision had any significance. On walking down to the electric-
car station at 8 o'clock Herr Rieken was informed of the
occurrence of the revolt and of Cavalcante's death by some
young men who were there reading the papers. At first he
gave absolutely no credit to the report, and was convinced
of its truth only after it had been confirmed by two naval
officers of his acquauitance. He proceeded at once to the
Military School, whither the body had been transported. In
preparing it for burial he cut away the miiform, which, al-
though not the same as that seen in the vision, was indeed
etauaed with the mud of the street. The shirt underneath
was soaked with blood, and a buUet had passed through the
head from one side to the other. Herr Rieken was also
told that the lad had been dragged by his horse after he had
fallen.
About a month later the same percipient had another
visual hallucination, to which, however, there seems to have
been no comcidence in objective events. She saw the young
man seated in his usual careless attitude on one of the chairs
in her sitting-room.
Cavalcante had nearly completed his course of mihtary
studies. He was noted for his application and iiiteUigence,
and recommended himself to all who knew him by a most
insinuating address. He was nearly 27 years old at the date
of his death.
The loss of their intended son-in-law has not been the only
misfortune which the Riekens have had to bear in recent
times. One of their children, a boy nine years of age, had
been previously killed by a passing car. Some three hours
before this accident a crash as of breaking crockery or bottles
had been heard in their store-room. On going thither they
found everything in perfect order, nor could any normal
cause be found to account for the noise.
From this accoimt, which has been carefuUy drawn up and
corrected in accordance with the statements of the various
witnesses, it appears that the lapse of time between Caval-
cante's death at Botafogo and its nunciation at Copacabana
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 165
was roughly three hours—probably a Uttle more. For some
days there had been disorders m town, and both by day and
night there had been firing in the streets. Of this nobody
was ignorant. But the news of the revolt of the Military
School spread very late and evidently did not reach the
Riekens in the retired spot where they hved. It is an im-
portant point in the evidence that Frau Rieken told her
husband and daughter of her hallucination before any of them
had the shghtest mkling of the events of the night. The
family formally certify to the correctness of that part of the
above narrative that contams their own oral deposition :
" CoPACABANA, January 28th, 1905.
" We, the undersigned, herewith declare that everything
happened exactly as it has been described by Mr. Alex-
ander. " Friedbich Rieken.
" Louise Rieken.
*
"Maria Luiza Rieken."
The original of the above note, written in German, was
sent to us by Professor Alexander.
The next case (L. 980, Journal, Vol. VII., p. 8) is
interesting on account of its peculiarity. The percipient
was a child too young to realise the circumstances, but
there can be little doubt that she had a definitely ex-
ternalised waking hallucination of sight about two hours
after the death of " little Jack." At the same time, it
is rather difficult to suppose agency of the dying infant
specially directed to the percipient. It seems more natural
to imagine a kind of diffused telepathy in which the dying
child's mother, the anxious mother of the percipient, and
the clerk through whom the news of the death was
normally communicated (and whose knowledge seems to
have timed the hallucination), may all have been more or
less concerned as well as the child who saw the apparition,
though it was only in the case of the latter that the
telepathic impact produced any conscious effect. If this
conjecture is right, it may help to explain other cases.
E.g. where there seems to be something arbitrary in the
166 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
choice of the percipient, some special condition in himself
may account for his being the only person in whom a
more widely diffused telepathic impulse makes itself
manifest. The case was sent to us by the Rev. J. A.
Macdonald, who has obtained for us at different times
other important spontaneous cases. He writes in sending
this one :
(L. 980.)
2 QuAERY Bank, Heswall, Cheshire, May 11, 1894.
The accompanying case has the merit of recent occur-
rence. "Little Jack" died from convulsions with teething.
The Michells are proprietors of lead works at St. Helens,
Lancashire. J. A. Macdonald.
The account is given by the percipient's mother. She
writes :
The Hollies, St. Helens, Lancaster, May 8, 1894.
On the 25th of last month I was sitting in the nursery,
and my httle daughter Gwendoline was playing with her
doUs, and she suddenly laughed so as to attract my
attention, and I asked her what she was laughing at.
She said, " 0 mother, I thought I saw httle Jack in
that chair "
—a vacant chair in the room—and iiadicating
her little cousin. About five minutes after this the
clerk telephoned from the office saying he had just received
a telegram from Penzance announcing the death of httle
Jack. It was about half-past nine in the morning when
the incident occurred in the nursery at St. Helens. The
death in Penzance took place about half-past seven on
the same morning. E. Michell.
In reply to our further inquiries Mr. Michell wrote :
May 28, 1894.
Gwendoline is five years and four months old. I am
not aware that she has had any previous experience of
the kind related to Mr. Macdonald, but that the one in
question is a fact I have not the shghtest doubt.
LXXXVI.] Sqjontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 167
She knows the head clerk at our office, and he has
often conversed with her, and occasionally plaj^ed with
her in an ordinary way.
The impression she had was just prior to the clerk's
telephoning to my Avife, and although the clerk did not
think about my daughter missing Jack at all, yet Mrs.
MicheU herself was anxiously wondering what the news
resi^ectrng Jack would be.
There was no one else in the nursery besides my wife
and daughter, but Mrs. MicheU was very deeply impressed
with the matter, and then to receive the message very
shortly after forced the matter upon her mind still deeper,
and she told me immediately I arrived home.
JaS. J. MiCHBLL.
An apparition to a young child is also an element in
the following case (L. 1223, Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 39), and
we apparently have in it a telepathic impulse not only
widely diffused but widely manifested. Three persons in
three different places seem to have received some intima-
tion of the death of the agent, Captain Bowyer-Bower, at
about the time of his death or very shortly afterwards,
before any normal knowledge of what had occurred could
have reached those concerned. We owe the case in the
first instance to Mr. Hubert Wales, who has collected the
necessary evidence.
(L. 1223.)
The following notice of the death of the agent appeared in
the Court Journal of June I, 1917 :
BowyER-BowER.—Previously reported missing, now re-
ported killed in action on March 19th, Eldred Wolferstan
Bowyer-Bower, Captain the East Surrey Regiment and
R.F.C., son of Captain and Mrs. T. Bowyer-Bower, of
30, Bramham Gardens, S.W., and of Ashanti, and grandson
of the late Major-General Henry Bower, aged twenty-two
years. (Captain Bower's body, beside his beriddled plane,
was fomid and recovered by his own father on May 10th.)
No mourning.
168 Mrs. Henry bidgivick. [part
It appears from information received by Captain Bowyer-
Bower's mother (see below) that his death occurred in the
early morning.
1. The most remarkable of the experiences which have
been reported to us was an apparition of Captain Bowyer-
Bower which was seen by his half-sister Mrs. Spearman in
India, within a few hours of his death. Mrs. Spearman's
original report of her experience was obtained under the
following circumstances.
Shortly after Captain Bowyer-Bower's death, his fiancee.
Miss Highett, had a sitting with a professional medium, Mrs.
Brittain, at Avhich a statement was made which Miss Highett
reports thus in a letter to Mr. Wales :
Wed. \2th June [1918].
I wish to tell you that Mrs. Brittain was quite a stranger
to Captain and Mrs. Bower and me. My interview
with her took place on September 29th, 1917. After
telling me many things about Mrs. Bower's son she said,
"He has a sister." I said, "Yes, Cicely." She said,
"No, that's not the name." She waited a few seconds
and then said :
" Joan. She has a little girl called Joan,
now I get Dorothy." I said, "Yes." He says, " TeU
Dorothy she has the power to communicate." He also
said, "She is not in this country." Mta. Highett.
Mrs. Bowyer-Bower wrote to her step-daughter, Mrs. Dorothy
Spearman (Captain Bower's half-sister) in India, with reference
to the statements made to Miss Highett at this sitting. The
following passage is extracted from Mrs. Spearman's reply :
Calcutta, 2 Jan., 1918.
. . . Now I have never told you this before because I
was afraid you would not understand. Eldred was greatly
on my mind when baby was bom, and I could only
thmk of him. On March 19th, m the late part of the
mommg, I was sewing and talking to baby, Joan was in
the sitting-room and did not see anything. I had a
great feeling I must turn round and did, to see Eldred
;
be looked so happy and that dear mischievous look. I
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 169
was so glad to see him, and told him I would just put
baby in a safer place, then we could talk. " Fancy
coming out here," I said, turning round agaiii, and was
just putting my hands out to give him a hug and a kiss,
but Eldred had gone. I called and looked for him. I
never saw him again. At first [I] thought it was simply
my brain. Then I did thinli for a second something
must have happened to him and a terrible fear came
over me. Then again I thought how stupid I was, and
it must be my brain playing tricks. But now I know it
was Eldred, and all the time in Church at baby's christen-
ing he was there, because I felt he was and Imow he was,
only I could not see him. All the time I thought why
do I feel hke this when Eldred is safe. And Mrs. K
kept on telling me to look more cheerful . . .
Mrs. Bowyer-Bower states that Mrs. Spearman was at a
hotel in Calcutta at the time referred to in the above extract,
and in a letter to Mr. Wales she says :
26th May, 1918.
. . The httle boy whose Christening is mentioned was
to have been his godson and the day he was baptized
Eldred feU. Dolly [Mrs. Spearman] did not of course
know of Eldred's death or even that he was out in France
again, as he had been home several months and [had]
only returned there three weeks when kiUed . . .
In reply to a question addressed to her by Mrs. Bowyer-
Bower as to whether she had informed any one of her ex-
perience before she knew of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death,
Mrs. Spearman wrote thus :
Dabjbeling, Augtist '^rd [1918].
... I can only teU him [Mr. Wales] I saw Eldred, and,
Peggy, I shall never forget the joy that went through me
or the horror when I looked and called and could not
find him or make him hear. No, I did not teU any one
before I heard of his death and have not up to now. I
did not tell Alec^ because I knew he did not beheve as I
^ Mrs, Spearman's husband.
170 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
did. When I told him how Mrs. B~— saw the W
boy, Alec said it must have been a dream. One day-
Alec said, I wonder if any one has seen Eldred, and I
said yes I have, and I explained what I saw and how I
felt, and when I went to the Grand we took the same
rooms and I showed him where Alley stood. He now
beheves we can see those who have gone. His belief is
the same as my own. If Alec had been with me at the
time, I would have called out to him and asked if he had
seen Eldred, was he in the sitting-room. I only knew
the K s in Calcutta, and often when I spoke to them
they would laugh. So I never said a word about Alley.
In fact I thought it might be my own madness. I
started a letter to you the same day and tore it up as
I thought you would only say it was cracked. . . .
Subsequently a further statement concerning her experience
was obtained from Mrs. Spearman in a letter to Mr. Wales,
as follows :
12 Jan., 1919.
My step-mother Mrs. Bowyer-Bower asked me to write
to you about the vision I had of my brother.
My brother appeared to me on the 19th March, 1917.
At the time I was either sewing or talking to my baby,
I cannot remember quite what I was domg at that
moment. The baby was on the bed.
I had a very strong feeUng I must turn round ; on
domg so, I saw my brother Eldred W. Bowyer-Bower.
Thinking he was ahve and had been sent out to India,
I was simply deUghted to see him, and turned round
quickly to put baby in a safe place on the bed, so that
I could go on talldng to my brother; then turned again
and put my hand out to him, when I found he was not
there. I thought he is only jokmg, so I called him
and looked everywhere I could think of looking. It was
only when I could not find him I became very frightened
and the awful fear that he might be dead. I felt very
sick and giddy. I think it was 2 o'clock the baby was
christened, and in the church I felt he was there, but I
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. l7l
could not see him. Two weeks later I saw in the paper
he was missmg. Yet I could not brmg myself to believe
he had passed away. I did fancy once I saw my grand-
mother, but she seemed very misty, so it may have been
fancy.
I did not tell any one of the vision I saw of my brother
for quite 1 or 2 months after I heard of his death, as I
was staying in the Grand Hotel, Calcutta, and did not
know anyone there very well. My husband was not with
me and I did not write to him about it, because he did
not believe in these sort of things. However, I finally
told him before writing to Mi's. Bowyer-Bower. The
only reason I did not mention it was, I felt nervous people
would only say I had imagmed it, so decided to keep
quiet on the subject. Dorothy C. Speabman.
It is mafortunate that Mrs. Spearman should not have
mentioned her experience to anyone before she knew of her
brother's death, but this weak point in the evidence is to
some extent comiteracted, because the date of the experience
is established by the circumstance (clearly recollected by Mrs.
Spearman) that it occurred on the day upon which her baby
was christened. The christening of the child, as we are
informed by Mrs. Bowyer-Bower, took place on March 19,
1917, the day of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death. It is very
unUkely that Mrs. vSpearinan's memory would deceive her on
such a point as that, and it is evident from her statements
that the experience was of a strikmg and unusual character,
the apparition being so completely developed as to make her
think momentarily that her brother was actually present in
the flesh. She states that the experience took place "in
the latter part of the morning," which means that allowing
for the difference of longitude it occurred at about the time
of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death, seemg that, so far as can be
ascertained, he died in France in the early morning of the
same day.
2. Some visual impression of Captain Bowyer-Bower would
also appear to have been received at about the time of his
death by his niece, a child of not quite three years old.
This incident was reported to Mr. Wales in a letter from
172 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich.
the child's mother, Mrs. Chater, Captain Bowyer-Bower's
sister, thus :
June 5th [1918].
My mother Mi-s. Bowyer-Bower tells me you wish me
to write and tell you about my little girl sajdng she had
seen my brother after he was killed.
One morning while I was still in bed, about 9.15, she
came to my room and said, " Uncle Alley Boy is down-
stairs," and although I told her he was in France, she
insisted that she had seen him. Later in the day I
happened to be writing to my mother and mentioned
this, not because I thought much about it, but to show
that Betty still thought and spoke of her imcle of whom
she was very fond. A few days afterwards we found
that the date my brother was missing was the date on
my letter. This letter has since been destroyed.
The child was a httle under three years old at the
time. ... I have never attached much importance to
this incident as it may be just only a childish lie.
Cecily Chater.
Concerning the above letter Mrs. Bowyer-Bower wrote to
Mr. Wales as follows :
8 St. Paul's Road, Bournemouth, \2th June, 1918.
. . .
'
Alley Boy '
was Eldred's pet name since he was
a baby. . . .
I could not positively declare the date of Mrs. Chater's
letter to me telling me what Betty saw. It might have
been the 19th, 20th or 21st, but anyhow I received it
down here before I got the War Office telegram announcing
he was missing. Eldred fell on the Monday. The War
Office telegram was received by me by post sent on from
Bramham Gardens, South Kensington, my home, on
Friday morning, March 23rd. ... I believe I received
Mrs. Chater's letter on the Wed. 21st. It was positively
a day or two before I got the other news. In any case
she told me it was on Monday ^ Betty tried to get her
out of bed to come down and see '
Uncle Alley Boy.'
1 March 10, 1917, was a Monday.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 173
It proved to be about the time the boy fell. His Colonel's
accoiint said he went out at dawn and after "recon-
noitring just over an hour over German lines he was
pounced on from the clouds by an overwhelming number
of enemy machmes," etc., etc. He received the news
from a Cavahy Patrol between 10-11 a.m. the same day.
3. Concerning the third impression received at about the
time of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death, Mrs. Bowyer-Bower
wrote to Mr. Wales, thus :
June 12th, 1918.
. . . Mrs. Watson, an elderly lady I have known many
years, wrote to me on the afternoon of March 19th
[1917] after not corresponding with me for quite 18
months, and said she felt she must write because she
felt I was in great anxiety over Eldred. (I have her two
letters in store in London, fortunately.) I wrote back
and said Eldred was fit and happy, and I simply took
her waiting thus [as an] excuse for writing again after so
long. T asked her in my reply what she felt about
Eldred, and she rephed to this effect—on the afternoon
of the day she wrote, about tea time, a certain and
awful feehng came over her that he was killed, etc., etc.
It was the day . . ,
Subsequently m November, 1918, Mrs. Bowyer-Bower sent
to Mr. Wales the first of the two letters MTitten to her by
Mrs. Watson, which runs as follows :
3iarch 19, 1917.
Something tells me you are having great anxiety about
Eldred. WiU you let me know ? Also have you good
news of Tom ? . . .
The second of JNIrs. Watson's letters Mrs. Bowyer-Bower was
not able to find, but her statement is sufBciently corroborated
by the first letter, given above, which is dated March 19,
1917, the day of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death.
The last two experiences, that of the child and that of Mrs.
Watson, are not in themselves very striking, and if either
stood alone, it might be put down to chance-coincidence. But
l"^"^ Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [parT
taken together, and especially taken in conjunction with Mrs.
Spearman's remarkable experience, they are not without
interest, and if the agency of Captain Bowyer-Bower be
assumed, they suggest that this agency was unusually power-
ful and was felt by more than one person.
Two^ later experiences, occurring after Captain Bowyer-
Bower's death was known, are also worth recording. They
do not fall mto the same category as the three experiences
related above, as indicating laiowledge supemormally acquired,
but they were such as greatly to impress the percipients, and
agani if Captain Bowyer-Bower's agency be assumed in the
case of the former experiences, they suggest that this agency
has continued to make itself felt since Captain Bowyer-Bower's
death.
4. The percipient in one case was Mrs. Bowyer-Bower, who
describes her experience thus :
June 12, 1918.
Durmg the night, either m the late part of Nov. or
early part of Dec. 1917, I came over very hot indeed and
turned dowi the eiderdown, etc. Some few moments
later I became extraordinarily cold with a most unnatural
coldness. ... I doubled the eiderdo^^Ti over myself and
tried to sleep and the feehng left me slightly, but came
back again stronger than ever and far more intense.
While I wondered what I could do a yellow-blue ray
came right across the room and I at once blamed the
housemaid (to myself) for not drawing the '
Raid '
curtains
together, thinkmg it was a light from the garage outside.
I looked to make sure, but the curtains were aU weU
together, and as I looked the ray moved right across
the foot of my bed and then came round right across
in front of where I lay. I watched, not at all nervously,
and something hke a crumpled filmy piece of chififon
unfolded and the beautiful wavy top of Eldred's head
appeared, a few seconds and his forehead and broad,
beautiful brow appeared, still it waited and his lovely
blue eyes came, but no mischievous twinkle, but a great
intensity. It all shook and quivered, then his nose came.
More waiting and quivering and then his tiny httle
LXXxvi.] Sponianeotts Cases : Impression Externalised. 116
moustache and mouth. At this point he turned his head
very shghtly and looked right into my face, and moistened
his hps shghtly with his tongue. I kept quite quiet,
but it quivered and shook so much and no chin came,
and in my anxiety I put out my hands and said :
" Eldred,
I see you," and it all flickered quite out, light and all.
It is possible it might have been a dream, one never can
be certain at night, but in my own mind I am satisfied
it was not. The eiderdown was doubled over me in
the morning when I was called, and it is not one of my
habits to do things in my sleep. I certainly never slept
after this, and I got shghtly this cold feehng once or
twice after and continued small rays several times during
that night. Eldred referred to it through Mrs. Leonard
in Jan. 1918. F. M. B. B.
5. The percipient in the other case was Miss ^ta Highett
(Captain Bowyer-Bower's fiancee), who describes it to Mrs.
Bowyer-Bower thus :
The Lodge, Hythe, January ith [1918].
... I thmk I wiU tell you something that happened to
me a short time ago. I certainly did not dream it, or
imagine it, but of course it may be something to do with
my brain. I was going to tell you before, only I thought
you would think me mad. I heard a number of raps
when I was m bed and I began to talk to Eldred, and
asked him to rap twice if he was ever going to show
himself to me. Almost immediately two raps came ;
I waited a long time but saw nothitig. Then I went
to sleep. Afterwards I woke up and looked romid and
saw Eldred on the bed beside me, he was wearing his
blue suit. I sat up and started talking to him, [Miss
Highett records what she said, and that " his hps started
to move" and made a reply "just above a whisper"].
I then tried to touch him, but my hand went through
him, and like a fool I started to cry, and he disappeared.
A letter from Mrs. Bowyer-Bower to Mr. Wales, written
on May 30, 1918, states that "Miss Highett had her vision
176 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
in Dec. [1917] ..." In a subsequent letter, written in reply
to questions put to her by Mr. Wales, IMiss Highett writes :
Saturday \5th [June, 1918].
... At the time of my vision I knew of the experiences
of Mrs. Bower and Mrs. Watson and Mrs. Chafer's child.
[Miss Highett did not, however, know of the experience
of Mrs. Spearman. See date of Mrs. Spearman's letter.]
You wish to loiow what I did between my waking and
seeing the vision. As a matter of fact I saw Mrs.
Bower's son as soon as I woke up. After having seen
the vision I switched on the electric light, which is by
my bed, to look at the time and found it was four o'clock
in the morning. I think you wiU know by this that I
was perfectly awake. ...
Li a further letter to Mr. Wales Miss Highett says that
when she had this vision " Captain Bower seemed to have a
light all romid him that made him perfectly visible."
The last two appearances in this case were not of
course phantasms of the living, but it is important to
consider them in connexion with the others, for taken all
together the set of experiences cannot but suggest some
special capacity in the agent to manifest himself which
could operate through various percipients and which
continued after his bodily death.
The case suggests questions about percipiency as well as
about agency, for it is curious that the two persons, his
mother and his fiancee, with whom one would have
supposed the dying agent would most have wished to
communicate, appear to have received no impressions at
that time, while yet their later experiences suggest a
capacity for such impressions. Do we here find support
for a hypothesis, which other evidence renders plausible,
that even with persons who have a capacity for receiving
telepathic impressions and externahsing them for their
normal consciousness in the form of hallucinations or
otherwise, that cajDacity is not always available ?
With regard to two or more percipients in different
places being affected by telepathic experiences concerning
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 177
the same agent, see below, p. 265 (L. 820), a case in
which a lady attacked by serious illness appears to a
sister and a niece in different rooms. Compare also
L. 1210 (p. 268). We may also refer to a case (L. 1130,
Journal, Vol. XI., p. 58) sent by Professor Alexander of
Rio de Janeiro, in which a young man dying of bubonic
plague appears twice in a dream to a friend of his boy-
hood, while a young lady to whom he was attached hears
footsteps and feels a hand-shake, which she took at the
time to be his leave-taking, almost at the moment of his
death. I do not quote the case, which is long, because
it is not a strong one. The young lady Imew of the
agent's serious illness when she had her experience, and
it is not quite clear whether the dreams took place within
twelve hours of the death or earher. In the Journal,
Vol. XII., pp. 302-307, will be found a case (G. 280) of
dreams and impressions concerning the same deceased
person (known to be deceased) experienced by four persons
within the same twelve hours or thereabouts. This is
interesting in the present connexion if we may assume
postmortem agency, though in that case of course it is not
a case of phantasms of the living. The alternative hypo-
thesis, that the percipients influenced each other, seems
on the whole rather strained in this case.
The next case (L. 834, Journal, Vol. IV., p. 213) may
be said to be a typical case of a simple apparition of
the dying seen when the percipient was in bed but awake.
The percipient did not allow her name to be printed, for
fear of paining the relations of the friend who appeared.
(L. 834.)
July 4:th, 1889.
I have noted down the remarkable incident I mentioned.
The time of its occurrence was in the early part of July,
1885, between 1 and 2 in the morning. I was wide
awake, not having slept at aU, when all of a sudden
I was startled by a bright light, and I saw at my bedside
a taU figure, and distinctly recognised the face of a
valued old friend who resided many miles from my home.
*78 Mrs. Henrij Sidgwick. [pARf
He was earnestly gazing at me, and on vanishing from
my sight the room became dark as before. My sister,
who occupied the next room, on hearing me make an
exclamation, came in and fomid me strildng a Ught, when
I told her whom I had seen. Strange to say we received
an early communication from a member of his family
acquaintuig us that our dear old friend had passed away
at the very time he appeared to me.
The narrator's sister confirms the above statement as far
as her part in it is concerned.
What follows is from notes made by Mrs. Sidgwick im-
mediately after talking over the above circumstances with the
two ladies :
The gentleman who appeared was an old and intimate
friend of both sisters, and corresponded constantly with
them. They had not heard from him for a httle while
before his death, and though they knew that he was
ailing they were not at all anxious, knew of no cause for
special anxiety, and had not had their thoughts turned
to him in any special way.
The lady who saw the apparition had not been to
sleep—she is a bad sleeper—but was lying with her eyes
shut trying to sleep. Suddenly she became aware of a
bright light in the room and opening her eyes saw by her
bedside the tall figure of her friend. The light, she told
me, was hke day-light and was at the side of the bed
where she saw the figure. She had time to see the
figure gazing earnestly at her and to notice that it was
wraiDped m a cloak or dressing-gown. She saw half the
figure—as far down, I suppose, as the bed would let her.
Apparition and light vanished together. She was startled
and agitated, got out of bed and had some difficulty in
finding the matches and striking a fight, owing to her
agitated condition.
I do not think that either sister has now an independent
recollection—apart from their knowledge of the day of i
the death—of the day on which this strange experience
occurred, but it made a deep impression on both, and
when the letter announcing the death reached them,
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 179
which must have been within two days, they were satisfied
that appearance and death were comcident. Their recol-
lection that the appearance occurred not long after mid-
night is, I thiixk, independent of subsequent information,
though they are not quite sure whether it occurred
between 12 and 1, or between 1 and 2.
A search for the letter annoimcing the death, which
the percipient kindly undertook, proved fruitless, but the
time of its occurrence, mentioned in the letter, " quite
agreed," she writes, " with the very time I noted down
of his appearance to me. This coincidence surprised and
greatly impressed myself and sister."
I was shown various newspaper cuttings relating to the
death and funeral, from which I copied extracts. The
death is announced as having occurred on July 5th, and
an obituary notice stated that the cause was general
break up rather than any specific ailment. In an account
of the fimeral it was stated that on the coffin plate was
the inscription :
" Died July 6th, 1885, age 75 years."
As the ladies pointed out to me, the fact that the death
was announced in the newspapers as having occurred on
the 5th, and on the coffin plate as on the 6th, tends
strongly to show that it occurred very soon after mid-
night, and, therefore, confirms their recollection of its
coinciding in time with the apparition.
I was told many things which showed that they were
intimate friends of the gentleman who died, and that his
thoughts might naturally turn to them.
The percipient assured me emphatically that she had
had no other experiences of the same kind.
For the accompanying hallucinatory illumination in this
case, compare the collective case (G. 241) below, p. 363.
A case which was probably a clear one of an apparition
of a dying person to a waking percipient is L. 1121,
Journal, Vol. IX., p. 306. I will only describe it, because
we have not the account of the percipient, Mr. Phillips,
who was dead when the case was sent to us by Mr.
Fotheringham, an Associate of the Society, The account
180 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
we have is that of Mrs. PhiUips who was cognisant of
her husband's experience at the time, and is at first hand
for tlie fact that the apparition was seen and recognised
before anything was knoMTi of the death. Briefly, Mr.
Phillips was at work in his shop when he saw a former
lodger, Mrs. Robotham, look ro^^nd the door. He was
surprised not to find her outside, but felt sure at the
time that he had seen Mrs. Robotham, whom he and his
wife knew extremely well. A week later they learnt that
she had died about that time. The account was written
about three years after the event.
The following case (L. 1224, Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 47)
was brought to our notice by Mrs. Willett, an Associate
of the Society, who wrote to us concerning it thus :
(L. 1224.)
Fir Tree End, Hayward's Heath,
Sussex, November 7, 1918.
I inclose an account written from dictation by the
Percipient of an appearance to her of a friend who was
dying at the time. Ada Orr, who is a single woman
between 50 and 60, has been known to me nearly all her
life. She is an absolutely truthful and straightforward
person. She is quite ready to answer any questions,
but particularly begs that the names of her friends shall
not be made public. Mrs. B is a very nervous
woman, and the subject of Mrs. S 's appearance has
not been mentioned to her. Mary Willett.
The statement by the percipient enclosed with this letter
was as follows :
November 6, 1918.
I went to see Mrs. B in Road, on October
4, 1918,1 [but] did not find her at home. As I came
away from the house, I distinctly saw Mrs. S who
formerly lodged with Mrs. B standing by the comer
of the house. Just hke a puff of cold air seemed to go
over me. I saw exactly how she was dressed. I noticed
1 By an error this date was first given as October 3, see below,—Bp,
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 181
she was wearing her black hat with a ribbon bow at the
side. Her face was quite distinct. Having seen her so
distinctly as I came round the comer of the house, the
next moment she had disappeared. I felt ^uite a creepy
feeling all over me. At this time, I afterwards fomad
Mrs. S was dying at the Cuckfield Infirmary—Mrs.
B having gone to see her. She passed away at 2
a.m. the next morning. When I saw Mrs. B a few
days later she told me about Mrs. S and how she had
longed to go " home to die." She said this many times,
but the doctor would not agree to her beii^g removed.
Before her death Mrs. S had told her daughter how
much she wished to see me.
[Signed] Ada Orr.
A further statement was obtained from Miss Orr, partly
in reply to questions put by us, and partly by Mrs. WiUett,
who kindly saw Miss Orr on our behalf. According to the
information thus received. Miss Orr did not mention her
experience to anyone before she heard of Mrs. S——'s death,
except "to an unloiown woman passing by " Mrs. B 's
house at the time. The date of her visit to Mrs. B and
of her seeing the apparition is, however, clearly fixed in her
muad, as she told Mrs. WiUett, by the circumstance that these
events occurred on the day on which she heard of the birth
of a great-niece. Mrs. WiUett informs us that the child was
bom on October 3, 1918, and the postcard announcing the
birth was received by IMiss Orr on October 4, 1918. The
mistake in Miss Orr's original statement, m which the date
of her visit to Mrs. B was given as October 3, arose
doubtless through that being the date of the child's birth
by means of which she had fixed the date of her experience.
A written statement was obtained from Miss Orr on this
point, thus :
December 17 [1918].
I remember the date by hearing of the birth of my
niece's Baby which I heard of by P.O. on the day that
I saw Mrs. S . A. M. Orr.
In reply to a question as to how recently she had seen
182 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
Mrs. S— and what she knew about her state of health,
Miss Orr wrote on November 13, 1918, thus
:
[I] had not seen her for at least three months when
she was taken away from Mrs. B 's to the Infirmary.
I had no idea her end was near. At the time I saw her
I had had a long walk and was tired, thought I would
call at Mrs. B 's for a rest, and heard afterwards
she was with Mrs. S who was dying, which I knew
nothing about. Ada Obr.
In regard to the date of Mrs. S 's death, independent
testimony was obtahied through the Curate of the Parish,
who wrote thus :
December 13, 1918.
I have just found out—quite indirectly—from Mrs.
B that Mrs. S died at Cuckfield Infirmary on
Saturday, October 5th, at 2 a.m. H. E. W.
It will be seen that it was not possible in this case to obtain
corroborative evidence from any one to whom Miss Orr had
related her experience prior to her knowledge of Mrs. S 's
death ;
but her original statement was made only a month
after the experience occurred, when it was still fresh in her
mind, and there appears to have been nothing m the circum-
stances, as known to Miss Orr at the time, which would
lead her to imagine that she saw Mrs. S . Miss Orr teUs
us that she has never had any similar experience before, but
her sister had one many years ago.
In the case just quoted the circumstances suggest the
possibility that the locality had something to do with the
experience—that it formed some sort of link between
agent and percipient, and that the latter might not have
seen the apparition had she not been close to the house
where the agent had lived. The next case (L. 1087,
Journal, Vol. VIII., p. 41) suggests the same thing, for
there seems to have been practically no link between
agent and percipient except that the latter knew the
former well by sight and was accustomed to see him
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 183
walking where his phantasm appeared—^the place towards
which she happened to be looking at the moment. A
similar local connexion appears in Madame Brousiloff's
experience described below, p. 210. And there is a case
(L. 322, Journal, Vol. III., p. 254) which does not belong
to our collection, as it is pubhshed in Podmore's book,
where Captain Campbell is awakened from sleep by a
" vivid and remarkable dream or vision " of Major Hub-
bersty falling forward as if dying on the night on which
he actually died. The two gentlemen had not seen much
of each other and were not particularly friendly ;
but
Captain Campbell was sleeping in a room which Major
Hubbersty used to occupy when stationed at the sam_e
barracks several years previously.
(L. 1087.)
We are indebted to the kindness of Mrs. Benecke for the
following account of the apparition of her son who was killed
while cUmbing in the Alps.
Her son, Mr. E. F. M. Benecke, was an Exhibitioner of
Balliol College, Oxford, and, as his posthumous work on
" The Position of Women in Greek Poetry " shows, a classical
scholar of the highest promise. He was a good Alpine climber,
and was collaborating in a guide to the Swiss Alps at the
time of his death. On the day on which it occurred, he was
seen in Mrs. Benecke's garden by the daughter of her laundress.
The percipient writes to Mrs. Benecke :
80, Mayes-road, Wood Green,
February 1st, 1897.
Madam,—Mother has this morning brought your letter
to Emma over to me, as I could better write what
happened on July 16th, 1895, as it was me that saw
Mr. Edward with another gentleman in the garden (as
I thought). I remember it all so well that I have been
able to write it just as it happened.—Yours respectfully,
E. Nichols.
[P.S.]—I have signed the other paper with my name as
it was then.
M
184 Mrs. He7iry Sidgwick. [part ^
i
On Tuesday, July 16th, 1895, between the hours of 1 ;
and 2 o'clock, I was doing some work in our bedroom
and, looking out of the window, saw (as I thought) Mr.
Edward Benecke with another young gentleman walking
in the garden, and I went at once to mother and told
her Mr. Edward had come home, and she said something
must have prevented him from starting, as we knew he
was going to Switzerland for his holiday, for I was positive
it was him I saw. When nurse came in on the Thursday,
mother asked her if Mr. Edward had come home, and she
said " No " and then we only said " I thought I saw
him," and we thought no more about it until the sad
news reached us. Ellen Cakter.
In answer to some questions from Mrs. Benecke, Mrs. Nichols
writes further :
80, Mayes-road, Wood Green,
February 4th, 1897.
Madam,—I am glad to be able to answer the questions
you have asked me. I did see another young man with
Mr. Edward (as I thought it was) and the look was not
momentary, for I was so surprised to see him that I
watched him until he turned round the path ; he was
coming, as he sometimes did after luncheon, from the
stable yard, along the path and turned towards the
house. He was smiling and talking to his friend, and I
particularly noticed his hair, which was wavy as it always
was ; he had nothing on his head. It was all that that
made me feel so sure it was him, and I felt that I could
not have been mistaken, knowing him so well. I cannot
tell you anything [about] what the other yoimg gentleman
was like, as he was walking the other side ; also I hardly
noticed him at all, being so surprised to see Mr. Edward.
Mother was doubtful when I told her about it and said
I must be mistaken ; but I said I was sure I was not, j|
and I was positive I had seen him, and I felt sure he
had come home until nurse came in and said he had not
been home, and then I thought how strange it was, and
even then I could not think I was so mistaken, and
often have I thought about it and feel even now that it
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 185
was him I saw. Mother did say perhajas some accident
had happened to his friend that he was to travel with
and so was prevented from going ; that was the only
remark that was made about an accident.
If there is any other question I can answer, I shall be
only too glad to do it for you. E. Nichols.
Mrs. Benecke gives the foUowing particulars :
Teddy was in the habit of walking regularly in the
garden, from 10 minutes past 12 till 1 o'clock, and again
directly after limcheon, varying, according to the time this
meal took us, from 1.30 or 1.45 till 2.30. He was so
regular that I could teU the time by his footfall on the
stairs. He never, except in the very coldest weather
—
to please me—^wore a hat or cap in the garden. The
lamidress often watched him walking up and do\TO the
garden paths, noticing the wind playing with his wavy
hair. She even, at times, would get up on a stool to
watch him, especially when Margaret was with him.
She says they looked so bright and happy together.
She has left us owing to her health, and her daughter
married quite lately.
Teddy was devoted to his " dear mountains," they
were a " second home " to him ; but aU his letters prove
that his thoughts were very much with us on the cUmbs.
He wrote to me in 1892 that when bivouacking out even
in his Bietschhom, " it felt strange to be so far away,
so high up, and as I wrapped myseK in my rug, I thought
of you all, sitting roimd the lamp, etc." In 1895 he
wrote, after his successful crossing the Wetterliicke, (a
chmb he was quite delighted with) " at 8.30,—just as you
'
were coming down to breakfast, I was thinking—we were
through." The last chmb he wrote about to both Mar-
garet and myself he said :
" The last half-hour was not
pleasant ; it Avas the only time during the chmb that I
was not sorry you (Margaret) were not with us." With
a heart so fuU of thought and love of us at home, even
when intensely interested and occupied in his dearest
pursuit, it seems natural that when called to leave us once
more, he should have turned towards us and sent his
86 Mrs. Henry SidgivicJc. [part
loving thoughts home. That they took his shape and
were seen once more on his famihar path seems very-
wonderful and of course inexphcable, but to me seems a
fact. I beheve that he was taken when his form appeared
here. It makes it somewhat more difficult to conjecture
where it happened, as he intended to be back by 4 and
this time—between 1 and 2
—gives therefore only 3 hours
from Ried. i
I wrote to our former laimdress Avith respect to her
having seen Teddy on July 16th, 1895. Our old nurse
told me that it was the younger daughter, Emma, who
had seen him. I could not, at the time Mrs. Carter left
our service, November, 1895, trust myself to speak to her
about it ; therefore I was rather uncertain as to what
really had been said, and when I received the first letter,
I wrote for a few more particulars.
It was through this letter that I heard, for the first
time, that EUen Carter saw two forms, which seems all
the more remarkable to me. I therefore wondered if
she could remember the face of the friend. I had under-
stood she had seen him " about one o'clock " and had
thought it was m his morning walk, but EUen is positive
that it was later. His coming out of the stable yard
is quite Ukely ; he often fetched the dog. I asked her
if it was a " momentary passing view " she had, as in
the first letter she writes almost as if she had merely
looked out and then gone to her mother.
When I heard this talked about, I remembered the
word " accident " and asked her if it was mentioned.
Her answer in [the second] letter refers to this question.
In answer to our further enquiries, IVIrs. Benecke wrote :
Norfolk Lodge, Basnet, February 15th, 1897.
I will do my best to answer your questions and to do
it clearly and systematically.
Ellen Carter lived with her mother and sister in a
cottage in our garden. I have tried to give you an idea of
the cottage by [a sketch not reproduced i].
I took this sketch
from our dining-room window, past which the broad path
[^But see plan on opposite page.]
LXXXVi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 187
leads, which I called A.- Along this path my son went
daily and often have I watched his hght swingmg steps
tiU he had gone through the httle gate I called B. jThis
leads into our kitchen garden. I had mderstood that
when Ellen saw him on July 16th, 1895, he was coming
back from his first walk through the gate B and had
turned towards our house down the path A. You will
easily imderstand that during the first months, I could
not ask questions about the events of that day,—nor, in
fact, can I now. But I was told of EUen having seen
I. Window in cottage.
C. Path leading to stables.
my son almost directly after my return, and J\'Ir. Benecke
heard of it at once. I will return to this directly. EUen
was in her mother's house tidying their bedroom (which
has the window I have marked I), when, looking up,
she saw my son. She tells about that herself and that
he "was coming out of the stable yard." That would
not be quite his usual direction, because he mostly jumped
out of the window after luncheon, but still it did happen
that he would fetch the dog, or put him aAvay, in the
yard. The door leading into the yard is behind bushes
and he would, according to Ellen's account, have come
from there and out where the path D comes out towards
188 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick.
our house. You will, I hope, understand from this about
the distance from the cottage to the path, and that it
would be quite easy for EUen, who seems to have quite
good sight, to have seen him distinctly and for a minute
at least.
Mrs. Carter cannot write, so it would only be what
EUen wrote for her which we should get by asking for her
version. Our old nurse, who can write, is very confused
about what and when she first heard of it, and therefore
she can write down nothing. I have asked her several
times about it all, but she varies each time in her state-
ments, except that she remembers Mrs. Carter asking her
if " Mr. Teddy had come home," and then her saying
" Oh, I told NeUie she was mistaken, when she thought
she saw him." She could not have spoken hke that if
the conversation had taken place after we heard the
terrible news. Mr. Benecke remembers that the gardeners
told him, after the news, that EUen had said she had
seen Mr. Teddy, and the general impression has certainly
been that she had said so, and therefore had believed
it, that she had seen him in the garden, on that day.
[She is convinced] that it was " Mr. Teddy, no one else
"
she saw, for she said that she knew his pretty wavy hair
too weU to make a mistake, and she quite sulked when
it was proved to her that she was mistaken.
We heard the terrible news on Saturday morning, July
20th, and I started five minutes later to catch the traia
and go over to Switzerland. Of course the servants
heard of it at once, and NeUie then is said to have been
very much startled when she heard it. There has never
been any doubt in our minds here that she had all along
said she had seen him on the Tuesday.
There have been printed notices of my dear boy's loss
in many papers. We have no means of fixing the hour
of it. AU we loiow of his plans for July 16th was that
he started with Mr. Cohen at 3 a.m. from Ried, and was
seen at 3.30 a.m. at Blatten, and that he had arranged
with the guides of Ried to meet him there at 4 p.m.
o'clock on the Tuesday, 16th, to settle details for a tour
on the 17th. My son was very accurate and always
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 180
planned his tours exactly before starting. The guides
told me that he knew every inch of ground in the neigh-
bourhood. He was working for Mr. Coohdge and there
was but one ridge of rock not yet explored in the district
assigned to him. I feel certain that the two friends
started for that ridge " Feenkiindl " and that there they
are now resting. This conviction has gradually become
clear to me, but since I have understood the whole
question, the weather has made all search impossible. . . .
Mabie Benecke.
Mrs. Benecke also sent us the accompanying ground plan
(not drawn to scale) lettered as in her sketch, showing the
position of the percipient in relation to the place where the
apparition was seen.
The seeing of a second figure with a realistic recognised
apparition is rare, but there are other examples. The
subject is discussed in Gurney's book, Chapter XII., § 6,
in connexion with the case he numbers 202.
There is an old case, qviite typical (L. 947, Journal,
Vol. VI., p. 9), namely, the appearance of Sir T. F.
Buxton's gamekeeper, Curtis, to his brother at the time
of his death through an accident in 1834. It was looked
into at the time, and recorded by Sir T. F. Buxton the
day after it happened. The account in the Jo7irnal is
printed from what purports to be a copy of the original
record. I think it is unnecessary to quote it here.
The next case (L. 1204, Journal, Vol. XVII., p. 204) is
peculiar in that the percipient was ill, had been at times
delirious, and may have been so at the moment of the
apparition. The dream-like character of the earlier part
of her experience does not look as if she was in an
ordinary waking condition, though the later part seems
to have been like a waking hallucination and unlike her
delirious imaginings. There is, of course, no reason why
a telepathic hallucination should not occur during illness
or delirium, and coincidence in time between this ex-
perience and the death seems to have been very close.
190 Mrs. He7ify Sidgwich. '\
[part
(L. 1204.)
The case was first brought to our notice by a paragraph
in the daily press on June 6, 1916, in which it was stated
that
:
The sister of Seaman George WiUiam Malpress, of
Peterborough, one of the men who went down with the
Queen Mary, had a reahstic dream last Wednesday
[the day the Queen Mary was lost]. She was lying
ill hi bed when she thought that her brother came to her
bedside, and altliough she spoke to him repeatedly he
would not answer. He appeared quite well and happy.
Subsequently, m reply to enquiries, we received the following
account from the percipient, Mrs. Baxter
:
56, New Rd., Peterboeo', June 19, 1916.
... in reference to my dream—as it was published in
the papers, but it was not a dream, it was a vision. I
was very ill at the time. It was the afternoon of the
day of the battle that I saw my brother. I was taken
worse and thought I was gomg to die. I was with my
brother on his ship and he was so happy and smging, and
then it changed and he was at home on leave. I thought
I repeatedly spoke to him each time but he did not speak
to me. I loiew I was iU, and thought he would not
speak because I was disfigured. I asked my mother if
he had gone back and she said he had not been home.
I said I knew he had, it seemed so real. I was very
much upset because he would not speak to me. I did
not hear of the sinking of the Queen Mary ujitil a
week after, as I was too ill for my mother to tell me. . . .
It would be just about the time when the ship went down
that I saw my brother, as it was late in the afternoon
on Wednesday, May 31. F. Baxter.
On June 29, 1916, the Secretary of the Society, Miss Newton,
went to Peterborough and called upon Mrs. Baxter and her
mother, Mrs. Malpress, who kindly answered all the questions
she put to them. Theu- evidence, as noted and summarised by
LXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 191
Miss Newton at the time, and confirmed by their signatures,
was as follows :
On May 31 Mrs. Baxter was suffering from erysipelas,
and had been ill from the previous Friday. About 5
o'clock in the afternoon she "felt something snap inside
her, and part of herself seemed to have gone out of her ;
she thought she was dying." Then she seemed to be on
a ship, or verj^ near it ; she could see the sailors moving
about, and heard them singing ;
they were very happy.
She spoke to her brother on the ship ; he wouldn't answer.
She called for a scarf he had given her, so that she could
hide her face, as she was disfigured. Then the scene
changed, she was at home, her brother was at home, she
spoke to him, but he wouldn't answer. She cried, thinkmg
it was because she was disfigured. The vision went. She
was stiU very upset because he wouldn't speak to her.
She asked her mother if her brother had gone back.
She had never had a vision, or a dream, of this kind
before. (Signed) Florence Ethel Baxter.
June 29, 1916.
Mrs. Malpress said that her daughter had been " lightheaded
on and off " during her iUness, but that at the time of the
vision she seemed " listless and blank." She continued
:
•
When she had this kind of blank feeling come over
:
her, I went down to find some one to fetch the doctor
as I thought she was dying. When I went up again
she was crying, and seemed very upset. I asked her
what was the matter. She said WiU had been to see
her, and he wouldn't speak to her. The following morning
I said, " How did WiU look ?
" " Just as usual," she
said ; "I thought he was here home on leave. He was
in his uniform, and very bright and happy."
(Signed) Hannah Malpress.
June 29, 1916.
The news of the Battle of Jutland, mcluding the announcement
of the loss of H.M.S. Queen Mary was pubUshed on Saturday
morning, June 3, 1916. In the casualty hst, which appeared
192 Mrs. Henry Sidgwic'k. [par*
a few days later (our reference is the Daily Telegraph, June 8)
the name of G. W. Malpress, A.B., was included in the crew
of the Queen Mary.
It is stated in Admiral Sir John Jeh/coe's despatch on the
battle, pubhshed in the press, July 7, 1916, that the action
began at 3.48 p.m. (Greenwich mean time) on May 31 ; and
in the various reports by observers, that the Queen Mary
sank soon afterwards. In an article ia the Daily Telegraph on
June 6, Mr. Hurd, indicating approximately, the course which
the battle took, says :
Quite early in the action the Queen Mary, by an
unfortunate mischance, or good German gunnery, was hit,
and sank in a few minutes. ... It should be emphasised
that this misfortune occurred almost immediately after
the action opened.
Thus, it will be observed that the coincidence in time
between the hallucination, which occurred about 5 p.m.,
summer time, and the death of Seaman G. W. Malpress,
which occurred soon after 4.48, summer time, was very close.
It is chiefly owing to this coincidence in time that we print
the case, contrary to our practice of excluding hallucinations
occurring during iUness where deUrium is present. The evi-
dence is further strengthened by the following considerations
:
(1) the hallucination seems to have been the only one which
assumed definite form during the illness ; (2) it was certainly
the only one described by the percipient during this time
;
and (3) it was miique in her experience.
These points will be apparent from the evidence on the
medical aspect of the case, kindly contributed, in answer to
our enquiries, by Dr. H. Latham, of Peterborough, who was
attending the percipient. The questions which were put to him
are given below in square brackets :
July 3, 1916.
[How long was the percipient dehrious, and was the
delirium intermittent ?]
From Monday night, May 29, mitil the end of the week.
Yes ; she appeared to ramble and say " queer things
"
(the mother's report to me) only at night. In the morning
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 193
or afternoon when I saw her she seemed clear in her
mind.
[Was this particular hallucination described to you
before the news of the Naval Battle on May 31 was known
to the pubUc ?]
I cannot fix the day, but I can say positively that I
was told of it, both by Mrs. Malpress and Mrs. Baxter,
long before the latter had any information of the Naval
Battle or the death of young Malpress. Mrs. Baxter did
not know anjrthing about the Naval Battle, etc., until
a fuU week after it had occurred, as I gave strict orders
that she was not to be told. About a week after the
Battle, say Wednesday, June 7, she picked up a paper
within her reach and saw the hst of officers or men on
the Queen Mary. It was many days before this that
I was mformed of the vision, both by the mother and
Mrs. Baxter.
Later, Dr. Latham wrote as follows :
Juhj 15, 1916.
My distinct impression is that the hallucination was
mentioned to Mrs. Malpress before the Naval Battle was
known of. But I really cannot fix the date when it was
told to me. All I can say is that, when I was told of
the hallucination, I questioned ]\Irs. Baxter, and she told
me quite simply that she had seen her brother on the
deck of his ship, that he looked quite as usual, but never
spoke a word. She told me this many days before she
knew of the Battle, but I cannot fix the date.
[Were any other hallucinations described to you during
the illness ? And have you heard of any experiences of
the same kind that Mrs. Baxter ever had ?]
No, only that she said such " queer things."
I am quite sure that neither Mrs. Malpress nor Mrs.
Baxter have ever had any other previous experience of
the kind. They took no interest in the subject when I
was first informed of it, which was early, and long before
anything appeared in the papers.
(Signed) H. Latham, M.B. (Edin.), etc.
i94 Mrs. Henry Sidgwicic. [part
Another unusual case is (L. 1159, Journal, Vol. XIII.,
p. 103) one peculiarity being that the experience was in
part collective. The apparition, if it was one, was seen out
of doors and among other people first by one percipient,
and again, a few minutes later and in another position,
by him and a friend together. There was nothing at the
time to suggest to them that they had not seen a real
man—^no disappearance for instance. They saw him
among other people in places where he might naturally
have been and left him there, and only suspected any-
thing mysterious when they learnt some hours later that
the man they thoiight they had seen had not been there, he
having in fact been drowned the night before. In this
case the collectivity alone would have been interesting,
but there are so many other unusual features—the repeti-
tion of the apparition and in a different form after the
percipient had gone away and returned ; the persistence
of the second appearance to both percipients ; the total
absence of anything suggesting a hallucination—that in
spite of difficulties I feel almost certain that there was
either a mistake of identity or a confusion of dates ;
therefore, as it is a long case, I do not quote it here.
So far the apparitions occurring at the time of the
death of the person seen which have been quoted have
all been realistic ; in appearance, position, and movement,
when movement occurred, they have been like real people,
and in most instances have at the moment been mistaken
for such. The dress and aspect of the apparition have,
moreover, been appropriate to the situation in which it
was seen, and, with the possible exception of L. 1146
(p. 160), have conveyed no information as to that in which
the agent actually was. I will now quote two dreams
which have the same characteristics, though with the
addition of the dramatisation, which, as remarked above
(p. 29), is so common in dreams.
The first of the two dreams (L. 1179, Journal, Vol.
XIV., p. 295) was sent to us by Major-General Carey,
who carefully examined the witnesses and obtained their
statements.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 195
(L. 1179.)
The dreamer's account is as follows :
30 AncHEKS Road,
Southampton, April I4,th, 1910.
I, Charlotte Cox, am in the service of ]\Iiss Lydia Le
Cocq, who resides at No 30 Archers Road, Southampton.
(I have been upwards of 38 years in her service and in
that of her cousin, Mrs. Laurence, who died in 1889.)
My mistress being in poor health, I am accustomed to
sleep in her room.
On Sunday, 19th December, 1909, at about 7 a.m., I
had a vivid dream. I thought I saw an old friend of
mine standing in the doorway (half-open) between the
bed-room and the landing. I said in my dream, " 0
here is Susan." She appeared to be dressed in her
bonnet and mantle, looking quite natural, hke herself as I
recollect her, though I had not seen her for some years.
IVIiss Le Cocq, I thought, turned round with a smile to
welcome her, she being an old acquaintance, having hved
for upwards of 50 years in the family, with Dr. Le Cocq,
Miss Le Cocq's uncle, and Mrs. Barnes, his daughter,
both now deceased. She had married a Mr. Thomas
Brailey about 20 years ago, being then upwards of 60
years of age, and hved with him in Guernsey tiU his
death about three years ago, afterwards in Jersey.
The dream was a short one, and I awoke at about my
usual hour in the winter, 7 a.m.
I mentioned the fact of having had the dream that
morning, both to Miss Le Cocq, and also to my feUow-
servant, Lihan Alhneritter, who too has been 17| years
with Miss Le Cocq.
On the next evening, Monday, 20th December, 1909,
I received a notice from Messrs. Croad & Sons, Under-
takers in Jersey (attached hereto), dated 19th December,
1909 (Post-mark Jersey, 11.45 p.m. Dec. 19, '09) to the
effect that Mrs. Thomas Brailey had died on that day at
The Birches, St. Saviour's, Jersey.
A few days after I also received a letter from a friend
in Jersey, who mentioned the hour of the death, viz.
196 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
7 a.m.—thus coinciding with the time when I awoke from
my dream here. I was not aware at that time of Mrs.
Brailey being ill, nor had any reason before my dream for
being anxious about her. I had never dreamt of her
before, nor have I had any other experience of a similar
character at the time of the death of any other friend of
mine. Charlotte Cox.
Miss AUmeritter writes :
April Uth, 1910.
I am in Miss Le Cocq's service. I recollect Charlotte
Cox, at brealvfast on the 19th December, 1909, teUing me
of her dream about her old friend, Mrs. Brailey, as
described above. The notice from the Jersey imdertakers
came by post the next evening.
Lilian Allmeritter.
The second dream is the following (L. 1147, Journal,
Vol. XII., p. 99). It was obtained for us by Mr.
F. J. M. Stratton, of Gonville and Caius College, Cam-
bridge, and most of the confirmatory evidence was col-
lected by his efforts. The percipient, Mrs. Mann, writes
as foUows :
(L. 1147.)
King's Field, Cambridge, February 11th, 1904.
On the night of Friday, January 22nd, 1904, I had a
vivid dream.
I saw my old friend. Dr. X., who left Cambridge about
10 years ago, and I had not seen him since, sitting by
my side. He took hold of my hand saying, " Why have
you not been to see me ?
" I said, " Oh ! I've been so
busy that I've not been able to get away. You are so
altered since I saw you last." " Yes," he said, " but
that is so long ago." He then disappeared. The dream
so impressed me that I told it to my husband at break-
fast the next morning, Saturday 23rd, and also to a friend
who knew the doctor on the 25th.
On Saturday morning, the 30th, my husband at break-
fast said he had received a memorial notice of Dr, X.'s
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 197
death, which took place on the 23rd instant, the day-
after my dream. g_ Mann.
A, H. Mann.
Mrs. Sidgwick writes :
February mh, 1904.
I called on Mrs. Mann this afternoon and she kindly
talked very fully about her experience. It was distinctly
a dream, but a very vivid and reahstic one. It was
brought to an end by her awaldng. In the dream she
and Dr. X. seemed to be sittmg on a sofa—it might have
been the one in her drawing room—and they talked
just as they used to do, his voice and maimer imchanged.
He had been her medical attendant . . . ; but he gave up
his practice and retired some 10 years ago, leaving Cam-
bridge, and she had not seen him since, though her
husband had. ... In the dream his hair and whiskers,
which had been dark iron grey when Mrs. Mann last saw
him, were white. There had been no mention of Dr.
X. in conversation, nor had Mrs. Mama been thmldng of
him, and she knows of nothmg which would have been
likely to suggest the dream. She is quite sure that the
dream occurred on the night of Friday, January 22nd,
and I think her recollection of this is mdependent of
her knowledge of the date of the death, though she has
nothing very definite to remember it by. She told it on
Saturday morning to Dr. Mann and in the course of the
day to Miss C . It was Miss C who on February
11th wrote out the account of it, which Dr. and JVIrs.
Mann signed. On Monday, January 25th, Mrs. Mann
told the dream to Miss T , and she has promised to
ask her to write an independent account. She showed
me the memorial notice of Dr. X.'s death on January
23rd. This reached Dr. Mann on January 30th, as is
shown by the post-mark. Mrs. Mann does not remember
having had any other vivid and reahstic dream that
impressed her as this one did, nor any that made an
impression which she felt it worth while to mention next
day. She has, however, had presentiments ; one of them
was of her father's illness and death a few days before he
198 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
died suddenly. She once saw what seemed to be an
apparition—late one evening last summer [of a relative
who had latety died]. Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
The above account was sent to Mrs. Mann and returned
by her to Mrs. Sidgwick with the statement that she thought
everything in it correct.
Mr. Stratton writes :
December Uh, 1904.
The friend [Miss T ] to whom Mrs. Mann mentioned
her dream, was unfortimately, through absence from
England, not approached for her account of the case
until a considerable interval had elapsed. As she was
then unwilling to make any statement on the matter,
I may perhaps be allowed to mention that I had a short
conversation with her several weeks after the event ; and
that she then spoke of Mrs. Mann's dream as curious, and
showed that she was at that time ignorant of the doctor's
death. Unfortunately the conversation was interrupted
before I had an opportunity of asking for her corroborative
evidence.
I have also seen a pencil note that Dr. Mann made
in his diary under the date Saturday, " January 23rd ;
X. [fuU surname given] Dream."
I heard of this note at the first, but could not manage
to see it tiU some six months later the old monthly
diary, in which it was written, was looked out for me to
see. F. J. M. Stratton.
Dr. X.'s son wrote to Mrs. Sidgwick as follows:
Janvxiry 13th, 1905.
. . . My father died on January 23rd, 1904, at about
4.30 a.m. Though he had been an invahd for some
years, his death was not expected till a seizure 5 days
before his death. During most of those 5 days he was
unconscious, and was quite so for the last 36 hours or
so before he passed away. His hair was by no means
white, though tinged with white—his whiskers were very
considerably white, though not quite. . . .
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 199
To these we may add the following interesting and
vivid dream (L. 1220, Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 3), since in
the absence of proof that the costume seen was that
actually worn, we cannot claim this as a " veridical
adjunct " (see below). The case was first brought to
our notice by Miss H. E. Macklin, who had been an
Associate of the Society for some years, in the following
letter :
(L. 1220.)
June 26, 1918.
My nephew, 2nd Lieut. David Macklin, was killed near
Albert, March 27th [1918], his mother receiving the news
from the War Office on April 3. On the night March
27-28 (within a few hours of his death), she saw him
(whether in sleep or not is doubtful), and believed it to
be an intimation of his death. She made no written
record at the time, but sjDoke of it that day to lier
sister and her servant.
It is an interesting point that she saw him dressed in
a way which surprised and puzzled her, but which seems
to have been correct. We could probably make certain.
Helen E. Macklin.
On July 2, 1918, Miss Macklin called at the S.P.R. Rooms
and gave the Secretary further particulars in regard to the
case and kindly expressed her wilhngness to collect the neces-
sary evidence.
A statement from the percipient, Mrs. Macklin, was received
a few days later, as follows :
White Wood Cokner, Sandy.
July 5, 1918.
My sister-in-law has asked me to write to you about
an impression I had of my son coming to me about the
time of his death.
I did not make any note of it at the time, but I know
the date, because I spoke of my impression next day to a
sister who came to visit me that day and to a servant
who came home the same afternoon, March 28th,
200 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
When the German offensive began on March 21st, I was
anxious about my son, because he was (2nd Lieut, in the
4th Bedfordshire), as I beheved, somewhere in the neigh-
bourhood of Arras.
On the night of the 27th March or in the early hours
of the 28th (I don't know the time), I had what I can
only describe as a waking dream. I mean that it did
not seem just an ordinary dream to me.
When I got up on the Thursday morning it was so
vivid that it haunted me, and I spoke of it, as I said,
on that day.
It seemed that I felt or heard footsteps along the
verandah outside my bedroom wmdow (I hve in a bunga-
low), and that I rushed out Imowing the steps were my
boy's. (Bodily I did not leave my bed.)
I seemed to see him with a " tin hat " and his pack
with webbing equipment, and my general feeling was great
dismay that he should be in "Tommy's kit," and I
exclaimed, " Oh, David boy, you have never disgraced
your officer's tmiform and had to go back to Tommy's
clothes."
(I am rather troubled at repeating this, because it almost
seems to imply that I had doubts of my boy, which I
certainly had not. He was a very dear son and brother,
and had got on splendidly as Intelligence officer ; he
was a most happy and very keen soldier, and letters
from his senior officers and men testify to his efficiency
and courage, as well as to his thoroughly good and useful
work.)
He passed as in a flash and I can't say that he looked
at me, it was more a feeling of knowing he was there.
From that time I expected bad news of him and I was
not surprised to get a telegram from the W.O. on the
3rd April, to tell me that my son had been killed in
action on March the 27th.
I think that the dream or impression, whichever it was,
haunted me all the more, because on the last evening of
my son's leave before he returned to France on Jan. 31,
I was helping him to pack, and naturally there was one
thought uppermost, though we were both quite cheerful.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 201
I said to him, "If what we can't help thinking about
should happen, will you try to come to me 1
"
He did not say anything, but he would always try to
do anything he could that I asked him, and I beheve
if it were in his power that he would have willed to
come to me at the time of his death.
On Friday, April 5th, two of my other sons came home.
I was talking to them about my impression of their
brother's coming to me and my trouble that he should
be wearing Tommy's clothes. And they both said, " That
is how he would have seemed to you."
I think that is all I can teU you, and it does not seem
very much, but my sister-in-law asked me to write.
Mabian M. Mackxin.
After maldng this statement Mrs. Mackhn wrote to her
sister and to the servant to whom she had mentioned her
experience before it was verified to obtain their corroboration.
i
We quote her letters below to show that her enquiries were
couched in quite general terms.
Letter from Mrs. MacUin to Lizzie Reynolds.
Do you remember when you came home for Easter,
my telling you about a sort of dream I had had about
Master David ? I have been asked if yon would mind
writing down what you remember of what I told you.
If you don't remember, never mind, but if you do
remember anything, just state what you can. Give your
reason for remembering the date.
To this letter Mrs. Mackhn received the following reply :
August 13, 1918.
Mrs. Macklin has asked me to write what I remember
concerning the dream she had of her son, Mr. David
Macklin. On March 28th Mrs. Macklin related to me,
how during some period of the night of March 27th she
saw in a dream Mr. David running along the verandah
in his tin helmet and private's uniform, when she ex-
claimed :
" Oh, David, what have you done to disgrace
02 Mrs. Hennj Sidgwick. [part
yourself ? " The foUowing Wednesday [April 3] Mra.
Macklin received a telegram stating her son had been killed
in action on Wed., March 27th. L. Reynolds.
P.S.~1 am quite certam it was March 28th Mrs.
Mackhn spoke to me of her dream, as I had been away
several weeks, and returned home on that date to spend
Easter.
Letter from Mrs. Macklin to Miss Bridgman.
I have been asked if you would write an account of
what you remember of my telhng you about my im-
pression or dream, or whatever it may have been, of
dear David on the day that you ca,me to White Wood
Comer m March. Possibly you may not remember
anythmg. I don't want to remind you of any details
or give you leads. But if you can write anything clearly,
I want to send it to the S.P.R.
Miss Bridgman rephed to this letter as follows :
i
4, St. Stephen's Road, Bayswater, W. 2.
"I have been asked by my sister, Mrs. Mackhn, to
write what I can remember of what she told me of her
dream or vision on the 27th-28th March this year.
I can state that these were her words as nearly as
possible :
'I have a queer feeling about my David this morning.
Last night I saw him so clearly, he seemed to come
suddenly round the comer of the verandah, rushing, and
in a great hurry dashed past me. He seemed to be
dressed m an ordinary Tommy's uniform, with "tin
helmet." I said, "Oh, David, you have done nothing
to disgrace your uniform as an officer." He did not
reply, but disappeared to the right of the front of the
bungalow.'
I went to visit my sister on Thursday, March 28th.
and it was the day I arrived that she told me of her
H. M. Bridgman.
Miss Bridgman's statement, which is not dated, was written in August,
8, but hy an oversight was not sent to the S.P.R. until November.
"
I Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 203
In reply to a further enquiry ]\Irs. Macklin informed us
i
that she had never had a similar impression or any other
experience of psychical interest that she could recall.
With regard to IVIrs. Macklin 's impression that her son was
Jin a private soldier's uniform, Lieut. Macklin's body was never
I
recovered, and since many of those Avith him have been killed
it has not been possible to obtain definite information on the
point. But it is [we understand] a common thing for officers
when they go into action to be so equipped as to be almost
.
indistinguishable from private soldiers.
We are indebted to Mrs. and Mss Mackhii for permission
,
to use names.
Death Coincidences—(&) not realistic.
In the case just quoted there had been a request to
the agent by the percipient to appear if possible. In the
two I will next give there had apparently been a promise
to try to communicate. In these two and also in the
two that follow them apparitions were seen by waking
percipients, but they were not realistic. Though fully
recognised they were not, and hardly could have been,
mistaken even momentarily for real men. In the first
(L. 977, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 368), from Prince Victor
Duleep Singh, the experience seems to have been almost
on the line between illusion and hallucination.
(L. 977.)
HiGHCLERE Castle, Newbury, November 8th, 1894.
On Saturday, October, 1893, I was in Berlin with Lord
Carnarvon. We went to a theatre together and returned
before midnight. I went to bed, leaving, as I always
do, a bright hght in the room (electric hght). As I lay
in bed I found myself looking at an oleograph which
himg on the wall opposite my bed. I saw distinctly
the face of my father, the Maharajah Duleep Singh,
looking at me, as it were out of this picture ;
not like a
portrait of him, but his real head. The head about
filled the picture frame. I continued looking and still
saw my father looking at me with an intent expression.
204 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Though not in the least alarmed, I was so puzzled that
I got out of bed to see what the picture reaUy was. It
was an oleograph common-place picture of a girl holding
a rose and leaning out of a balcony, an arch forming a
background. The girl's face was quite smaU, whereas
my father's head was the size of life and filled the frame.
I was in no special anxiety about my father at the i
time, and had for some years known him to be seriously
out of health ; but there had been no news to alarm
me about him.
Next morning (Sunday) I told the incident to Lord
Carnarvon. .it
That evening (Smiday) late on returning home. Lord
Carnarvon brought two telegrams into my room and
handed them to me. I said at once, " My father is
dead." That was the fact. He had had an apoplectic
seizure on the Saturday evening at about nine o'clock, j
from which he never recovered, but contmued unconscious
and died on the Stmday, early in the afternoon. My
father had often said to me that if I was not with him
when he died he would try and come to me.
I am not subject to hallucinations, and have only once
had any similar experience, when, as a schoolboy, I
fancied I saw the figure of a dead schoolboy who had
died in the room which I slept in with my brother ; but
I attach no importance to this.
Victor Duleep Singh.
Lord Carnarvon writes :
I can confirm Prince V. Duleep Singh's account. I
heard the incident from him on the Sunday morning.
The same evening, at about 12 p.m., he received a tele-
gram notifying him of his father's sudden illness and
death. We had no loiowledge of his father's iUness.
He has never told me of any similar previous occurrence.
Carnarvon.
We have ascertained that the Maharajah Duleep Singh died
on Suiiday, October 22nd, 1893. t
4
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 205
The next case (L. 974, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 280) was
sent to us by Mrs. Scott, The Elms, Acton Hill, London,
W in a letter dated November 25, 1893. Of the two
apparitions described, the first is beyond our time-hmit
of five years between event and record, and the exactness
of the coincidence is doubtful, but it is interesting that
the percipient should have had two experiences of the kind.
Mrs. Scott writes
:
(L. 974.)
A sister of mine went to South America, and married
there. One morning I was in bed about 11 o'clock,
when there was a knock at my door ;
thinking it was the
house-maid with hot water, I said "Come in." No one
came in. There was another knock; again I said "Come
in," and turned towards the door. My sister was standing
there. I, thinking she had returned unexpectedly, said
" What, yoti, Elsie r' She then vanished. When I went
downstairs I told my husband, who said, " Don't teU your
mother, or she wiU think something has happened to her."
We heard a month later that she had died, after a few
•>
hours' iUness, about that time.
On December the 6th, 1892, I returned home about
11.30, after spending the evening with some friends. On
going upstairs, I saw a taU man so close to me that I
put out my hand to push him back, but my hand went
into space. I again moved forward, when he was close
in front of me, and, though I couldn't see his face, I
recognised the figure of a great friend of mine in India.
I went into my sitting-room, ahnost expecting to find
hun there. A week later I got the news of his death at
Bombay, on the evening of the 6th. He had always
said that if anything happened to him, he would let me
know. I may add I wrote to an old ship-mate of^ his,
and told him of my experience, on the morning of the 7th.
In reply to our request for corroborative testimony, Mrs. Scott
wrote
:
November 2Qth, 1893.
I enclose a few fines from my sister and my husband.
The man I wrote to about having seen Percy Faulkner,
Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
was Lieut. Edward Reeves, R.N., of H.M.S. Royalist,
at present on the Austrahan station. I can, if you wish
it, write and ask if he still has my letter, or ask him to
write you a few Ihies, but it will be three months before
an answer can be received.
I cannot be sure of the date m March 1887, that I
saw my sister, but I believe it to have been at the actual
time of her death, which was on the 15th of March.
We did not receive the news till more than a month
after.
The notes enclosed were the followmg :
The Elms, Acton Hill, W., November 29, 1893.
I weU remember, m March 1887, my A.dfe telling me
she had seen her sister, who was then m South America
I advised her not to tell her mother, in case it should
upset her.
Ronald A. Scott,
M.R.I., F.R.G.S., M.I.E.E., &c.
Woodland Cottage, Acton Hill, London, W.,
November 29th, 1893.
I remember my sister, Mi-s. Scott, tellmg me on the
mornmg of December 7th that she had seen a friend
of ours, Percy FauUaier, at that time m Bombay, on
the staircase the night before, and wondermg what it
Florence Farquharson.
Mrs. Scott v^rrote later in answer to further enquiries :
December 28th, 1893.
I am doubtful of Mr. Reeves havmg kept my letter
about Percy Faullmer, but of course he would remember
about It. It was to my sister. Miss Farquharson, that
I mentioned what I had seen, not to Mr. Scott. In
the case of seemg my sister, I mentioned it to him.
I had not any idea of Mr. Faulkner being iU ; m fact
he was not, for he died from an overdose of chloral,
which he was takmg for insomnia. He always said that
if anythmg happened to him, he would let me know.
LXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : impression Externalised. 201
\
I enclose extracts from a letter I received from a
'
shipmate of ]\'Ir. FauUaier's about his death. I am
imable to send the letter, as there are some private details.
The letter was written, Mrs. Scott informs us, by J. Ham,
Esq., R.N., H.M.S. Cossack, and the extracts sent us were as
follows :
Bombay, January I5th, 1893.
The ship was placed in dock on the 5th and we were
quartered at the Great Western Hotel, Percy's room being
on the same flat as mine, and but four or five rooms
removed. . . . On the evening of the 5th, we went for
a walk and to hear the band, and talked a great deal
on home affairs ; he was in the best of spirits. We
afterwards met friends, and I learnt afterwards that he
went to the club. I went to his room the morning of
the 6th and tapped at the door. He answered, and I
asked him how he felt. His reply was " Not much,
old chap." That was the last I saw of the poor chap
aUve. . . . About 10, a servant came and told me that a
doctor wanted to see me. I followed the boy, and
imagine my grief when I saw two doctors attempting to
restore Hfe to him who has so lately been a source of
life to us all. . . . Your seeing Percy, as you relate,
was very strange and most remarkable, and yet un-
doubtedly the same thing has happened before with those
who have had dear friends dying in distant lands.
We wrote to Lieutenant Reeves, asking if he still possessed
the letter in which Mrs. Scott had informed him of her ex-
perience before she heard of Mr. Faulkner's death, and he
irepUed :
H.M.S. Boyalist, Albany, Western Australia,
February 8th, 1894.
Dear Sir,—Your letter of January 3rd to hand. With
regard to any documentary evidence with reference to
Mrs. Scott's writing and teUirg me she had seen the
apparition of Mr. Percy Faulkner at the time of his death,
I am afraid I have none, as the letter was destroyed,
and at the same time, I at this moment don't recollect
208 M^'s. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the date, having imfortunately no diary or anything to'
refer back to. But at the time I was quite convinced
in my mind that Mrs. Scott had seen him ;
for, as she'
tells you, she wrote to me the next morning, and I was
up at Acton very shortly afterwards and questioned her
most closely about it, and from what we afterwards heard
about Mr. Faulloier s death, there was no flaw as regards
the time. I am afraid this cannot help you at all, but
it would be useless my sayitig more than [that], having
satisfied my own mind as to what Mrs. Scott had seen,
I let the matter drop. Yours very truly,
Edwabd Reeves.
In the next case (L. 979, Jourtial, Vol. VII., p. 7), the
triple form of the apparition is a curious feature, and one
which it would be difficult to explain by a mistake of
identity. Mr. R. W. Raper, through whom the case
reached us, writes to Mr. Myers :
(L. 979.)
Trinity College, Oxford, 3Iay 5th, 1892. i
The enclosed narrative was written down at my request.
I heard it from the lips of the narrator, very soon after
the event occurred last Christmas vacation. He has put
the tale on paper for me, almost exactly as he told it
me first. I know him well, and can guarantee his perfect
good faith.
The account enclosed was as follows
:
New College, Oxford.
Just before last Christmas I went over to Liverpool
with one of my brothers and my sister. It was a very
fine, clear day, and there was a great crowd of people
shopping in the streets. We were walking down Lord-
street, one of the principal streets, when, passing me, I
saw an old uncle of mine whom I knew very httle, and
had not seen for a very long time, although he lived
near me. I saw three distinct shapes hobbling past
(he was lame) one after the other in a line. It didn't
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 209
seem to strike me at the moment as being in the least
curious, not even there bemg three shapes ia a hne. I
said to my sister, " I have just seen Uncle E., and I
am sure he is dead." I said this as it were mechanically,
and not feeling at all impressed. Of course my brother
and sister laughed. We thought nothiag more about it
while in Liverpool. The first thing my mother said to
us on getting home was, " I have some news " ;
then
she told us that this uncle had died very early that
morning. I don't know the particular hour. I saw the
three shapes at about 12 in the morning. I felt perfectly
fit and well, and was not thinking of my micle in the
least, nor did I know he was Ul. Both my brother and
my sister heard me say that I had seen him, and believed
he was dead, and they were equally astonished at hearing
of his death on our return home. My imcle and I
knew each other very Uttle. In fact, he hardly knew me
by sight, although he knew me well when I was a small
child. J- ^ovE.
In reply to our request for corroborative evidence, Mr.
Dove writes :
May 20th [1892].
I enclose letters from my mother and my sister. Ap-
parently my micle had died in his sleep in the early
morning, as he was fomid dead in the mommg. I
beheve he was not iU before. I am afraid I can't re-
member the date of our excursion to Liverpool, but believe
it to have been about two or three days before Christmas.
The following are the letters enclosed :
(1) From Mrs. Dove.
21, Devonshirb Place, Clatjghton, Birkenhead,
May mh, 1892.
I am sorry I have not been able to find out any
particulars about Uncle Edward's death. I sent the
letter you enclosed with yours for Granny to read, so
that she might be able to give me particulars ;
but she
210 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
says no one knows the hour of his death, for he was
found dead in bed and had died in his sleep. . . .
A. G. Dove.
(2) From Miss Dove.
May 11th [1892].
Mother said you wanted me to write to you about the
Uncle Edwards episode. I do remember distinctly your
saying to me in Liverpool, " three men have passed me
exactly hke Uncle E. : he must be dead !
" and then
we heard afterwards that he had died that day, but I
do not remember the date.
In the next case (L. 991, Journal, Vol. VII., p. 121) the
apparition seems to have been of a shadowy description,
though it conveyed to the percipient the idea of a par-
ticular person.
(L. 991.)
The case came to us through Mr. A. Aksakoff, who received
it from Mrs. Broussiloff. She writes :
St. Petersburg, April I9th, 1895.
On the 16th (28th) of February of this year (1895)
between 9 and 10 o'clock in the evening, I, the under-
signed, was sitting in. our drawing-room—the smaU one
—
facing the large drawing-room which I could see in its
entire length. My husband, his brother with his wife,
and my mother wei'e also sittuag in the same room with
me round a large round table. I was writing down my
household accounts for the day, whilst the others were
carrying on some gay conversation. Having accidentally
raised my head and looked into the large drawing-room,
I noticed, with astonishment, that a large gray shadow
had passed from the door of the dining-room to that of
the ante-chamber ; and it came into my head that the
figure I had seen bore a striking resemblance in stature
to Colonel Av^-Meinander, an acquaintance of ours, who
^ Particle equivalent to tlie German " von " (the name is a Swedish
one).
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 211
had lived in this very lodging for a long time. At the
first moment I wished to say at once that a ghost had
just flashed before me, but stopped, as I was afraid of
being laughed at by my husband's brother and his wife,
and also of being scolded by my husband, who, in view
of the excitement which I showed when such phenomena
were taking place, tried to convince me that they were
the fruit of my fancy. As I knew that Meinander was
ahve and well, and was commander of the " Maloros-
siisky " 40th regiment of dragoons, I did not say any-
thing then ; but when I was going to bed, I related to
my mother what I had seen, and the next morning could
not refrain from mentioning it to my husband.
Our astonishment was extreme when on the 18th of
February (2nd of March) we learned that Nicholas Otto-
vitch Av-Meinander had actually died after a short illness
on the 16th (28th) of February at 9 o'clock in the evenmg,
in the to-\vn of Stashovo,^ where his regiment is stationed.
Anna Nicolaievna Broussiloff.
Mrs. Broussiloff 's mother writes :
My daughter did actually relate to me on February
16th (28th), about midnight, when I was going to bed,
about the phantom she had seen, precisely as she has
described it above. Marie von Hagemeister.
Colonel BroussilofE writes :
Araktcheieff Barracks, St. Petersburg,
April mh, 1895.
Colonel Nicholas Ottovitch Av-Meinander and his family
had formerly Uved for about nine years at a time in the
lodgitag where we hve now. Both he and the members
of his household hked this lodging very much, and parted
with it with regret about four years ago, in consequence
of his appointment as commander of the " Malorossusky
"
40th regiment of dragoons, stationed in the town of
Stashovo.
1 GovernrQent of Radom, Poland, 1,200 versts from Petersburg.
212 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
From time to time my wife had already seen ghosts
before, which threw her into a great state of excitement.
I consequently did my utmost to persuade her not to pay
any attention to such phenomena and to consider them
as the fruit of imagination. My wife had never seen
anything supernatural for the last two years, and was
inexpressibly glad of it. She is a woman of a quiet
and equable character, and is not nervous generally. On
the 16th (28th) of February, no one of us had any reason
to be excited or to thuik about Meinander, as, according
to information that was to hand, both he and his family
were in excellent health. When my wife related to me
her vision in the morning of February 17th, I laughed
at her and requested her not to think about this case,
which I considered to be a hallucination. The first news
of Meinander's unexpected demise was received by us on
February 18th, when we read in the [mihtary] " order of
the day " [appended to the original narrative in Russian]
that Meinander was dead and that a fimeral service for
the rest of his soul was to be celebrated ; and the next
morning we read in the [obituary notices of the] Novoie
Vremia, No. 6,816, that he had died on February 16th
(28th), at nine o'clock in the evening.
Colonel Alexis-Alexeievitoh Bboussilofe.
In connexion with this may be mentioned a case (L. 839,
Journal, Vol. IV., p. 268) where a dark shadowy figure
was seen moving across the room by Miss M. Thelemann.
It was unrecognised, but some hours later the thought of
a dear friend came suddenly into her mind and she
afterwards learnt that the friend died at that time. As
the experience was unrecorded till nearly four years after
its occurrence and is uncorroborated, I do not quote it
in full. Such undeveloped veridical hallucinations are,
however, quite conceivable, and indeed there is reason to
think that they occur. Compare Gurney's book, Chap.
XII., especially case No. 196.
This concludes the cases in our collection of apparitions
of dying persons seen by waking percipients. In none
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 213
of them, with the doubtful exceptions of L. 1146, p. 160,
and L. 1220, p. 199, was any indication given of the
circumstances or surroundings of the agents.
Death Coincidences—-(c) Visual with veridical or symbolic
adjuncts.
There are, however, five dreams in which the dying
agent is seen and some correct information is received.
The first of these (L. 978, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 368)
occurred a few hours before the death. It was received
through Miss E. Sturge of Chilliswood, Tyndall's Park,
Bristol. The percipient, here called Miss G., gave her
real name in confidence. She wrote :
(L. 978.)
April \st, 1891.
I saw my brother, who was ill at the time, lying in his
berth, dressed in his clothes. The ship was moving slowly
along—it was a bright moonUght night and everything
was exceedingly quiet and peaceful. At first he appeared
asleep, but at length opened his eyes, gave me a bright
smile and one long look and then closed them again.
Apparently I saw him just a few hours before he died.
As far as I can remember, it was after midnight on the
29th of December, 1886. I was in bed, and very tired,
after the exertions of a children's Christmas party. Of
course I was anxious about my brother, but from that
time all anxiety seemed to cease. When anyone con-
gratulated me upon the safe arrival of the vessel, it seemed
to make no cheerful impression, and I ceased from that
time writing the weekly letters which I had been in the
habit of sending, although we did not hear of his death
until February 7th, 1887. I was 22 years old at the
time. I had not seen my brother since the 22nd of
September, 1886, the date when the vessel left the docks.
Miss Sturge adds :
Miss G.'s brother had not been in good health, and had
travelled a good deal on account of it, but the family
214 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part'
were not especially anxious about him at the time of his
death. He was going alone to Austraha and died very
shortly before arrival, and it was almost by accident;
that the family heard of his death.
Miss Sturge writes later :
July 27th, 1891.
I find from a letter I have received from [Miss G.]
that she does not quite know whether she was asleep or
awake at the time of her vision, but says she is certain
she was awake immediately after. She sends me the
printed invitation to the children's party on the 28th
December, 1886, and she sends also a copy of the letter
from the wife of the captain of the ship on which her
brother was at the time of his death, by which I see that
he died at 10 p.m. on the 29th Deceniber, the dream or
vision thus preceding the death. Mss G. repeats that
she was so certain that her brother was dead that she
refused to write to him or send him anything. She made
no written memorandum at the time, but spoke of it to
Mr. and Mrs. M. with whom she was then and is now
hvmg [as their governess].
She seems to have been in the habit of dreaming of
her brother, as she was very fond of him.
Mr. Myers called on Miss G., on December 18th, 1891, and
writes :
I saw Miss G. yesterday. She thinks that her experience
ought to be classed as a dream, although it was more
vivid than any other dream she remembers, and woke
her up so thoroughly that she got up and did not sleep
agam for some hours.
This dream alone of all that she has had showed her
brother ill and altered, as he in fact was altered before
death.
She did not tell Mr. and Mrs. M. until the news had
arrived. She intentionally kept the invitation card (which
I saw), as a memento of the date, not wishing to put
on paper what she regarded as so private a matter.
,xxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Im-pression Externalised. 215
The best proof of the importance of this dream in her
eyes is that she never once wrote to her brother again,
although she was devotedly attached to him, and used
to write by every, or almost every, mail. Had he been
alive, he would have missed her letters with surprise and
pain. I have seen the captain's wife's letter. The
brother died at Port Adelaide between 7 and 10 p.m.
on the 29th, which would be in England from 9.40 to
12.40 a.m. on the '
29th. The vision therefore preceded
the death by less than 12 hours.
The brother had in fact been mainly lying dressed in
his berth towards the last, not being strong enough to
be much on deck.
F. W. H. Myers.
Miss G. writes to Mr. Myers on December 23rd, 1891 :
Deae Sm,—Enclosed with this you will find the written
statement of Mr. M., which j^ou desired me to send you.
I fear you will not find it very satisfactory—as, of course,
to be really valuable to yon, I ought to have mentioned
my dream before the news of my brother's death reached
England. As it is, it was quite by accident that Mr. M.
found out about it. We were on the station, and he
was seeing me off on my way home, and was expressing
sympathy with me and saying how sorry he was, etc.,
when I remarked " it was stupid of me to feel it so
much, as I'd known for a long time how it would be."
Then he pressed me to tell him how I knew, and I told
him the facts with which you are already acquainted, and
he told Mrs. M. Before giving my account to Miss Sturge,
I got both Mr. and Mrs. M. to read it through, not
liking to trust entirely to my own memory, and they
both thought it correct.
Mr. M. corroborates as follows :
December 2\st, 1891.
With reference to the particulars which have been
given by Miss G. respecting the dream she had on the
night of her brother's departure from this life, I perfectly
recollect her telling me when the news arrived that she
216 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvich. [pari
had known for a long time that he had gone. She then
described minutely to me the surroundings of the room,
etc., on the ship where he died, and named other par-
ticulars which the witten accounts I subsequently read
from the wife of the captain of the vessel markedly
confirmed.
I should perhaps say Miss G. is, and always has been,
very averse to conversing on the subject, and I have
always abstained from pressing her to do so, and from
troubling her by anything hke cross questions on the
subject. Miss G. was deeply attached to her brother,
and had seen him off on his leaving England.
The next case (L. 973, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 249) was
received through the American Branch. In the first
instance a second-hand account of the case was sent
to Dr. Hodgson by Miss Lilian Whiting, in May, 1891.
The percipient prefers that her name should not be
printed.
(L. 973.)
Miss Whiting writes :
Hotel Brunswick, May 21th, 1891.
Deah Dr. Hodgson,—Miss tells me the following,
and gives her permission to my relating it to you. I
enclose her card. >
'
In February last, her mother, living in N. H., died
suddenly one night between nine and ten, of heart-disease.
Her last words to a daughter-iti-law present were :
" Don't
cry, don't feel badly, you have done everything you
could for me."
That same night. Miss was here at the Brunswick,
the guest of the , and they were out at some enter-
tainment in the evening. They returned, and Miss
retired about eleven and immediately had a vivid dream
that her mother came to her, embraced her fervently,
and said: "Don't cry, don't feel badly, you have done
everything you could for me." The impression was so
vivid—she felt the touch—heard the tones—that she slept
Uttle, and the next momiiig told Mrs. that she nmst
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 217
go and visit her mother—that she was sure she was ill
and wanted her, and almost while they were talking of it,
the telegram annoimcing her mother's death came. When
Miss reached the place, she told her sister-in-law
the words of the dream before the sister-in-law had told
her what their mother actually said, and the lady who
was present with the dying woman was startled at the
coincidence of the actual last words of the dream.
Miss wiU reply to any question if you wish.
Lilian Whiting.
Some time later. Dr. Hodgson obtained an account of the
incident from the percipient herself, who writes as follows :
March 30th, 1892.
Deak Sik,—Your letter dated March 25th, has just
reached me, and I hasten to say that this is the first
communication that I have received from you. Miss
Whiting's account of my dream must in some way have
been lost in the mail. I have no doubt but that it was
quite accurate. However, to avoid giving you more
trouble, I will just write it out briefly. I was visiting
friends fifty miles away from my mother's home. I had
not seen her for some weeks, and I did not know that
she had been having attacks of a heart trouble, which
caused her death. She had always been strong and well,
with the exception of rheumatism, and the thought of her
dying had never entered my mind. I retired at eleven
o'clock, and feU asleep immediately, and as soon as I
slept, my mother came to me in a dream ; she was
dressed in black and looked very young. She put her
arms around me and said :
" Do not cry, you have done
everything that you could for me." This she repeated
several times ; then I awoke, disturbed and troubled, with
tears on my face.
In the morning I told my friends that I was troubled
about my mother because of a vivid dream. In two
hours the telegram came, saying that she was dead. I
went immediately, and before I was told anything about
the manner of her death, I told my dream. My sister-
220 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
On the night of Saturday, July 9, I went to bed about
12.30, and suffered from what I took to be a nightmare.
I was awakened by my wife's voice calling to me from
her own bed upon the other side of the room. As I
awoke, the nightmare itself, which had been long and
vivid, faded from my brain. AU I could remember of it
was a sense of awful oppression and of desperate and
terrified struggling for life such as the act of drowning
would probably involve. But between the time that I
heard my wife's voice and the time that my consciousness
answered to it, or so it seemed to me, I had another
dream. I dreamed that a black retriever dog, a most
amiable and inteUigent beast named Bob, which was the
property of my eldest daughter, was lying on its side among
brushwood, or rough growth of some sort, by water.
My own personahty in some mysterious way seemed to me
to be arising from the body of the dog, which I knew
quite surely to be Bob and no other, so much so that my
head was against its head, which was lifted up at an
imnatural angle. In my vision the dog was trying to
speak to me in words, and, failing, transmitted to my
mind in an undefined fashion the knowledge that it was
dying. Then everything vanished, and I woke to hear
my wife asking me why on earth I was making those
horrible and weird noises. I replied that I had had a
nightmare about a fearful struggle, and that I had dreamed
that old Bob was in a dreadful way, and was trying to
talk to me and to teU me about it. Finally, seeing that
it was still quite dark, I asked what the time was. She
said she did not know, and shortly afterwards I went to
sleep again and was disturbed no more.
On the Sunday morning Mrs. Rider Haggard told the
tale at breakfast, and I repeated my story in a few
words. This I need not do here, as the annexed state-
ments set out what occurred quite clearly.
Thinldng that the whole thing was nothing more than a
disagreeable dream, I made no enquiries about the dog
and never learned even that it was missing until that
Sunday night, when my Uttle girl, who was in the habit
of feeding it, told me so. At breakfast time, I may
Lxxxvi.] Sp07itaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 221
add, nobody knew that it was gone, as it had been seen
late on the previous evening. Then I remembered my
dream, and the following day enquiries were set on foot.
To be brief, on the morning of Thursday, the 14th,
my servant, Charles Bedingfield, and I discovered the body
of the dog floating in the Waveney against a weir about
a mile and a quarter away. The two certificates of the
veterinary surgeon, Mr. MuUane, are enclosed herewith.
They sufficiently describe its condition.
On Friday, the 15th, I was going into Bungay to offer
a reward for the discovery of the persons who were
supposed to have destroyed the dog in the fashion sug-
gested in Mr. Mullane's first certificate, when at the level
crossing on the Bungay road I was hailed by two plate-
layers, who are named respectively George Arterton and
Harry Alger. These men informed me that the dog had
been killed by a train, and took me on a trolly down to
a certain open-work bridge which crosses the water between
Ditchingham and Bungay, where they showed me evidence
of its death. This is the sum of their evidence :
It appears that about 7 o'clock upon the Monday
morning, very shortly after the first train had passed, in
the course of his duties Harry Alger was on the bridge,
where he found a dog's coUar torn off and broken by the
engine (smce produced and positively identified as that
worn by Bob), coagulated blood, and bits of flesh, of
I
which remnants he cleaned the rails. On search also I
personaUy found portions of black hair from the coat of a
dog. On the Monday afternoon and subsequently his
mate saw the body of the dog floating in the water
beneath the bridge, whence it drifted down to the weir,
it having risen with the natural expansion of gases, such
as, in this hot weather, might be expected to occur within
about 40 hours of death. It would seem that the animal
must have been killed by an excursion train that left
Ditchingham at 10.25 on Saturday night, returning empty
from Harleston a Uttle after 11. This was the last train
which ran that night. No trains run on Sunday, and
it is practically certain that it cannot have been killed
on the Monday morning, for then the blood would have
22 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [paeI
been still fluid. Also men who were working arounc
when the 6.30 train passed must have seen the dog or
the line (they were questioned by Alger at the time anc
had seen nothing), and the engine-driver in broad daylighl
would also have witnessed and made a report of tht
accident, of which in a dark night he would probablj
Imow nothmg. Further, if it was living, the dog would
almost certainly have come home during Simday, and its
body would not have risen so quickly from the bottom
of the river, or presented the appearance it did on Thurs-
day mommg. From traces left upon the piers of the
bridge it appears that the animal was knocked or carried
along some yards by the tram and fell mto the brmk oi
the water where reeds grow. Here, if it were still hving,
—
and, although the veterinary thinks that death was
practically mstantaneous, its life may perhaps have hngered
for a few minutes,—it must have suffocated and sunk,
undergomg, I imagme, much the same sensations as I
did in my dream, and in very similar surroundings to
those that I saw therein—namely, amongst a scrubby
growth at the edge of water.
Both in a judicial and a private capacity I have been^
accustomed all my life to the investigation of evidence,
and, if we may put aside our familiar friend " the long
arm of coincidence," which m this case would surely be
strained to dislocation, I confess that that available upon
this matter forces me to the following conclusions :
The dog Bob, between whom and myself there existed
a mutual attachment, either at the moment of his death,
if his existence can conceivably have been prolonged till
after 1 in the morning, or, as seems more probable, about
three hours after that event, did succeed in calling my
attention to its actual or recent plight by placing what-
ever portion of my being is capable of receiving such
impulses when enchained by sleep, into its own terrible
position. That subsequently, as that chain of sleep was
being broken by the voice of my wife calling me back
to a normal condition of our human existence, with some
last despairing efl'ort, while that uidefinable part of me was
being slowly withdrawn from it (it will be remembered
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 223
that in my dream I seemed to rise from the dog), it spoke
to me, first trying to make use of my own tongue, and, failing
therein, by some subtle means of communication whereof I
have no knowledge telling me that it was dying, for I saw
no blood or woiuids which would suggest this to my mind.
I recognise, further, that, if its dissolution took place
at the moment when I dreamt, this communication must
have been a form of that telepathy which is now very
generally aclmowledged to occur between human beiiigs
from time to time and under special circumstances, but
which I have never heard of as occurring between a
human being and one of the lower animals. If, on the
other hand, that dissolution happened, as I beheve, over
:
three hours previously—what am I to say? Then it
would seem that it must have been some non-bodily but
surviving part of the life or of the spirit of the dog which,
so soon as my deep sleep gave it an opportunity, repro-
duced those things m my mind, as they had aheady
'
occurred, I presume, to advise me of the mamier of its
end or to bid me farewell.
..
'
There is a third possibihty which I will quote, although
the evidence seems to me to be overwhelmingly against
it, and, for the reasons aheady given, it is mherently
most improbable—namely, that the dog was really killed
,
/ '
about half-past 6 on the Monday morning, in which case
my dream was nothing but a shadow of its forthcoming fate.
Personally, however, I do not for a moment beheve
i. : this to have been the case, especially as the vetermary's
certificate states that the animal's body must have been
"over three days" in the water at the time of its discovery.^
1 Sir Rider Haggard omits here (but sec the end of his letter of 2.3rd
July below) a fourth possibihty, namely, that a telepathic impression
may have reached his mind at the actual time of the dog's death, but
remained latent, only emerging into consciousness when a favourable
moment arrived. The possibility of such deferment in the emergence
of an impression is difficult to prove except in some experimental cases,
but it is generally assumed and is one reason for allowing a margin of
twelve hours after the apparent moment of death in coimting the
apparition of a dying person as a phantasm of the living. References to
the subject will be fovuid in several places in Cxurney's book (see ui the
index imder " Defennent or latency in telepathic impressions"). It is also
discussed in Myers' Human Personality, ch. vii., § 107, Vol. II., pp. 12-13, etc.
224 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
On the remarkable issues opened up by this occurrence
I cannot venture to speak further than to say that,
—
although it is dangerous to generahse from a particular
instance, however striking and well supported by evidence,
which is so rarely obtamable in such obscure cases,—it
does seem to suggest that there is a more mtimate ghostly
connection between aU members of the animal world, in-
cluding man, than has hitherto been beheved, at any rate
by Western peoples ; that they may be, in short, aU of
them diiferent manifestations of some central, informing
life, though inhabiting the universe in such various shapes.
The matter, however, is one for the consideration of
learned people who have made a study of these mysterious
questions. I will only add that I ask you to pubhsh
the annexed documents with this letter, as they constitute
the written testimony at present available to the accuracy
of what I state. Further, I may say that I shall welcome
any uivestigation by competent persons.
H. Rider Haggard.
The veterinary surgeon who examined the body of the dog
wrote to Mr. Rider Haggard as follows : :
;
Bungay, July Mth, 1904.
Dear Sir,—In pursuance of your instructions I have
inspected the dog found in the water at the Falcon
Bridge, Bungay.
It was in a very decomposed and tympanitic condition.
In answer to your inquiries,
(1) I beheve it is your dog Bob, which I have frequently
attended and which was at my house for one week under
treatment. .
>
(2) Cause of death.
Fracture of skull in three places, the skull being smashed
almost to a pulp by some heavy, blunt instrument. The
womids are not caused by gim shot.
(3) The body must have been in the water over three
days, and very probably the dog was killed on the night
of July 9th (Saturday), after which it was missing.
Both forelegs were fractured just below the knees. I
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 225
should say this was done by a large trap, probably an
otter trap, as the injuries are too severe and high up the
legs to be caused by a rabbit trap. It seems probable
that the dog went to the water to drink and stood upon
the table of the trap, his body being afterwards thrown
into the river. P. J. Mullane, M.R.C.V.S.
Mr. Mullane wrote later :
BrnsTGAY, July 15th, 1904.
To H. Rider Haggard, Esq.,—Having heard the story
of the destruction of the dog " Bob " by a train on
Saturday night, I am of opinion that his injuries are
compatible with that method of death. The guard of
the engine might have shattered his head and the wheels
of the engine severed the bones of the fore legs.
P. J. Mtillane, M.R.C.V.S.
Mrs. Haggard wrote :
DiTCHINGHAM HOTJSE, BtTNGAY, J2dy I5th, 1904.
On the night [of] July 9th I was awakened by most
distressing somids proceeding from my husband, resembhng
the moans of an animal, no distinct words. After listening
for a few moments, I woke him up, whereupon he said
that he had had a nightmare, m which he was engaged
in some struggle comiected with our retriever dog " Bob,"
and that " Bob " was trying to tallt to him and explain
that he wanted help. It was quite dark at the time, so
I conclude it must have been about 2 a.m.
M. L. Haggard.
Miss Haggard wrote :
July Uth, 1904.
On Sunday morning, July 10th, my father mentioned
at the breakfast table that he had had a horrid night-
mare about my black retriever dog " Bob."
He said that he dreamt the dog was dying in a wood
and trying to make some communication to him. My
mother corroborated this statement, saying he had made
such a noise that he had even awakened her, and she
aroused him as he seemed so disturbed.
226 Mrs. Henry Sidgtoich.
Of course we all laughed at
not know then that anything
for I had seen him myself at
evening.
it at the time, for we did
had happened to the dog,
8 o'clock on the preceding
Angela Rider Haggard.
Miss L. R. Haggard wrote :
July Uth, 1904.
On the evening of Smiday, July 10th, I, who am in
the habit of feeding the dogs, told Daddy that " Bob "
had not come to his breakfast or his supper that day,
so I thought he must be lost.
Daddy had said at breakfast on Simday that he had
dreamt that " Bob " was dymg in a wood, and that he,
Daddy, was trying to extract something from " Bob,"
and that " Bob " was trying to speak.
LiLiAS R. Haggard.
A lady relative who hves at Ditchingham House wrote :
J'idy Uth, 1904.
On Sunday morning at breakfast Louie [Mrs, Rider
Haggard] said " Rider " []V'Ii- Rider Haggard] " had a
nightmare last night, and made such noises that he woke
me up, and I had to wake him."
When Rider came down we talked about his nightmare,
and he said with a laugh, " Yes, it was old '
Bob,' he
was being killed, and he was calling out to me to save
him." L. R. Hildyakd.
Mr. Haggard's secretary wrote :
Ditchingham House, July I5th, 1904.
At breakfast on Sunday, the 10th, Mrs. Haggard laugh-
ingly complamed of haviiig been disturbed in the night
by the noise Mr. Haggard made in his sleep, so much so
that she had been obliged to wake him up. Mr. Haggard
explained that he had had a nightmare, in which he had
been strugghng violently, and also dreamt that he had
been trying to understand something that the dog "Bob,"
who was dying, was saying to him. Ida Hector.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 227
The above letters were published in The Times with IVIr.
Rider Haggard's account. In reply to our request to be
allowed to see the original documents, Mr. Haggard kindly lent
them to us for comparison with the printed copies and also
sent us the originals of three other statements relating to the
case, which we print here.
(1) From Mr. Mullane.
Bungay, July 15th, 1904.
To H. Rider Hagg.ard, Esq.
Dear Sir,—It is my opmion, from the condition of the
dog's head, that he was lulled instantaneously by a very
violent blow over the skull. P. J. Mullane.
. (2) From H. Alger.
I was at my business on the line between Bungay and
\
Ditchingham at 7 o'clock on the morning of Monday,
J the nth July, when only one train had passed about
I 6.30, and found the broken collar of a dog lying there,
which I produce, and had to scrape off the dried blood
and some bits of flesh from the line. I asked several
people who were working about and were there when the
6.30 train passed, including Mr. Rimnicles and Mr. Riches,
if they had seen a dog on the bridge, as one had been
killed there. They said that they had not.
If the engine-driver had seen a dog run over, he would
have reported it. Under all the circumstances, I think
; that the dog must have been Idlled by the late excursion
train on Saturday night which left Ditchingham for
; Harleston at 10.25. From the way in which the flesh
was carried, it was evidently killed by a train going
towards Bungay.^
The marks of blood upon the piles showed where the
dog had fallen from the bridge into the reeds. These
reeds grow in deepish water.
I did not myself see the dog in the water; my mate,
Arterton, saw the body of the dog after it had risen to
the surface.
1 The train that passes Ditchingham abovit 6.30 on Monday morning
is also one that goes towards Bimgay.
—
Editoe.
228 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
It was I who cut the collar as you see it now. I
did so that it might be sewn together and used again
for some other dog. [Signed] Harry Algee.
(3) From C. Bedingfield.
DiTCHiNGHAM, July I4:th, 1904.
My master and I fotmd the dog in the Waveney near
the Falcon Bridge on the morning of July 14th. It is
the retriever dog, Bob, which I have known ever since
it has been at Ditchingham House.
[Signed] C. Bedingfield
(Groom at Ditchingham House).
In reply to further questions as to the possibility of the dog
having been killed on the Monday morning instead of Saturday
night, Mr. Haggard wrote to us :
Ditchingham House, Norfolk,
July 23rd, 1904.
I beUeve that I am right in saying that if the dog
had been killed on the Monday morning, it certainly
would not have floated by the Monday midday or after-
noon when it was seen by Arterton.
No, I think the water is too deep for the body to have
been seen lying at the bottom and been mistaken for a
floating dog. Further, Harry Alger, when he foimd the
traces of the accident, looked m the water on the Monday
morning and could find no dog. It must therefore have
risen to the surface between the Monday morning and
Monday afternoon, as I beheve it would naturally do,
had it met its end on the Saturday night. Li short, I
am absolutely convinced that when I had my dream the
dog had been dead for at least three hours. Further,
this appears to be evident : the injuries to the dog's head
were such that death must have been instantaneous ;
and even though life lingered in the tissues, as a doctor
to whom I was talking this morning told me it might
do for a httle while, from the moment that engine struck
the dog's head, it must have been utterly incapable of
thought or voUtion as we understand it—that is, its brain
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 229
was destroyed ; it was physically dead. It seems to
result therefore that in order to produce the long subse-
quent impressions upon myself, it must have been spiritually
alive. In short, even supposmg that I received those
impressions at the moment of the death of the dog and
stored them up for future use, or that those impressions
were flying about in the air hke a wheeling hawk waitmg
for an opportunity to settle on my head, they must still
have been emitted by the personality of an animal that
was already dead, doubly dead from fatal injury followed
instantly by drowning.
I seem therefore to come to this conclusion. Either
the whole thing is a mere coincidence and just means
nothmg more than indigestion and a nightmare, or it
was the spirit of the dog on its passage to its own place
or into another form, that moved my spirit, thereby
causing this revelation, for it seems to be nothing less. . . .
H. Rider Haggakd.
From an interview in The Daily Chronicle of July 22nd,
1904, to which ftlr. Haggard referred us, saying that it was
" fairly accurate," we extract the following :
Bob, although he belonged to my daughter, who bought
him three years ago, was a great friend of mine, but I
cannot say that my soul was boimd up in him.
He was a very intelhgent animal, and generally accom-
panied me in my walks about the farm, and almost
invariably came to say good morning to me. He was
rather rheumatic, as he was getting into years—seven
perhaps—but that did not prevent him going after rabbits,
generally in company with Bustle, my spaniel.
Another letter from Mr. Haggard appeared in The Times of
August 9th, 1904, discussing the issues involved, and giving
further details of the probable mode and circumstances of the
dog's death, as follows :
... I am satisfied that the dog was destroyed about
10.27 on the night of July 9th. It had, I think, been
rabbit-hunting or following some other canine attraction,
230 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
and being hot and tired, lay down upon a sleeper of the
open bridge above the cool water, and resting its head
upon its paws, placed them on the rail, thus lifting them
a few inches above the gromid. This was its mvariable
custom when a turf edgmg or anythmg of the sort was
available. Thus it went to sleep. But whether asleep
or awake, the blow which it received from the wheel
guard of the engine must, I presume, if it did not cause
instant death, at any rate have utterly destroyed its
mind-powers, miless dogs can think with some portion of
then- organism other than the brain, of which in this
instance the case was utterly smashed. ...
[As to the suggestion that the telepathic information
may have come from a human being who witnessed the
death of the dog :]
My answer is that no human being would have been
wanderuig about on a dark night in a place so dangerous
as an open timber-Avork railway bridge over a river. I
am convinced that the only creature which can have seen
the dog's death was another smaller dog which may or
may not have been with it at the time. . . .
As to the question whether he had had any other experi-
ences of the kuid, and in regard to some of the pecuUar
psychological features of this case, Mr. Haggard writes to us
later :
... I never remember any other telepathic dream.
From time to time I have had uneasy dreads which have
proved baseless, but the only tangible mysterious event
which I can recall was a fore -knowledge of future sorrow,
which some months later proved itself to be fearfully
accurate.
. . . Was the nightmare or first dream the whole story
of what happened ? I am inclined to thmk so from what
I remember of it and the animal noises that I made
(see my wife's evidence). To what can be attributed the
hallucination that I seemed to rise from the body of
the dog ? This was one of the most curious parts of the
manifestation—hke the separation of soul and body, as
one might imagme it. Another curious pomt was the
Lxxxvi.] Sfontaneous Cases : Impression Externalissd. 231
fashion in which, abandoning its attempt to talk (I thought
because it was too slow) as I departed from it, the dog
seemed to flash the inteUigence of its dying state upon
my mmd. In an instant I laiew all about it,—through
the inteUigence, not through the senses.
This case is one of very unusual interest from several
points of view. It is, therefore, specially satisfactory to have
it so well authenticated, and Mr. Rider Haggard deserves the
gratitude of psychical researchers for havmg collected all the
available evidence so promptly and completely, and put it at
the disposal of the scientific world.
For other cases of possible animal agents, see above,
L. 1142, L. 1144, L. 1158, pp. 116, 139 and 141. Also perhaps
a case mentioned below, L. 844, p. 342. There is also a
case in Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 285, of a dog being
seen running across the room at Mentone about the time
of its death in Norfolk, but the agency of those in charge
of the dog is here possible.
Two dreams may be briefly mentioned in which the
dying agent was seen with symbolical adjuncts. In one
(L. 1166, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 140) which came to us
through the American Branch, Mrs. Pool dreamt she
saw her brother carried into her house in an open coffin,
on the night he died suddenly, at a distance. In the
other (L. 1175, Journal, Vol. XIV., p. 75) Mrs. Comyn,
on the night her mother died unexpectedly, dreamt she
saw her looking very young and gay. She disappeared in
the midst of a crowd of singing voices.
Death Coincidences—(d) appearance of a relative of the
dying person.
I turn next to cases in which the person seen was not
the dying person but one closely connected with and in
the company of the dying person at the time. .
In the first
of these (L. 1153, Journal, Vol. XII., p. 317) the per-
cipient " Miss R." sitting up in bed saw the face of the
widow of the person who died about an hour and a half
232 Mrs. Henri) Sidgivick. [part
after his death. She saw and recognised the face, and
saw it as it were in dupHcate—either two images of it
at the same time or one immediately after the other
(cf. L. 979, above, p. 208). The widow is known to have
talked of the percipient that night and about the time
of the experience. The case is recorded by a good
observer who has had no other experience of the kind,
and it is well evidenced except that unfortunately Miss R.
did not speak of it or make a written note of it till
after the news of the death came. She had in fact not
thought of it in the two days' interval. It is this, and
the fact that ]Miss R. prefers to remain anonymous, that
prevents my lengthening this paper by quoting the case
in full ;
though my knowledge of the accuracy and care-
fulness of the percipient makes me think it rather an
important one.
A dream case of the same kind (L. 1211, Journal,
Vol. XVIIL, p. 35) reached us through Sir Oliver Lodge,
to whom it was reported in the first instance. The
dreamer is Mrs. Walter Browett, of Westfield, Coventry,
and the first account of her experience which we received
was as follows :
(L. 1211.)
Statement by Walter Browett of Westfield, Coventry, Solicitor.
January 30, 1917.
This morning at 8 a.m. my wife told me that she had
had a vivid dream about an aunt, always referred to as
"Auntie Maude." She said she met her dressed in
black with widow's weeds, and she told my wife that her
husband was dead.
My wife had not seen her for some years, but they
exchanged letters occasionally, the last letter being about
a week ago on an entirely trivial matter. My wife had
never seen Amitie Maude's husband to whom she was only
married last October.
When we came down to breakfast we found a letter from
Auntie Maude, the contents of which are of no importance.
It was written and posted yesterday at a place near
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 233
Shrewsbury. I naturally remarked to my wife that that
was the end of her dream.
At 1.30 p.m. we received a telegram as follows: "My
husband passed away last night. Auntie Maude." So
far as we can remember we had neither of us either spoken
or thought of Auntie Maude or her husband smce last
^yeek. Walter Browett.
In reply to our request for a first-hand report of her dream
from Mrs. Browett, we received the followmg statement :
Westfield, Coventry, February 19, 1917.
At the end of October, 1916, my late mother's only
sister, Mrs. Short, to whom I always refer as " Auntie
Maude," was married to a Mr. G. M. Meire, Eyton-on-Sevem,
Shrewsbury. I have not seen her for several years, and
I never saw hun. On the night of Monday-Tuesday,
January 29th-30th, 1917, I dreamt that I saw Auntie
Maude in widow's weeds, and felt that her husband was
dead. I told my husband about it directly I awoke
and described her dress. At brealdast we fomid a letter
from her, from which apparently all was well. About
1.30 we received a telegram from her as follows :
" My
husband passed away last night. Auntie Maude."
F. M. Browett.
We also wrote to Mr. Browett pointing out the importance
from an evidential standpoint of makmg it clear that Mr.
Meire 's death was sudden and that neither he nor JVIi-s. Browett
had any reason to anticipate it. Jn this connection Ave asked
Mr. Meu-e's age and we also asked whether the telegram an-
nouncing his death had been preserved. INIi". Browett replied
as follows :
Westfield, Coventry, February 19, 1917.
In reply to your letter of the 16th inst. I now enclose
a statement written and signed by my wife [see above].
I also enclose the letter therem referred to and a letter
from Mrs. Meire dated the 14th inst., m which she describes
the manner of her husband's death on the 29th ult.
You will see that there was nothing in the first letter
234 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
to suggest that Mr. Meire's health was affected. As a
matter of fact, we knew that he used to rise at 6.30 to
go round his farm, and when I saw him—for the first
and last time—at the wedding in London he appeared
to be a healthy man—shm and wiry. I went to his
funeral and then learnt that his age was 67. He had been
very active during the afternoon of the 29th and had said
how well he felt. . . .
The telegram was not kept, but it was only a " con-
firmation " one, the original message having been teleiDhoned
ujD here from the Coventry G.P.O. I saw Mrs. Meire
after the fimeral and she told me that she did not know
that her husband had any heart trouble.
Before mentioning my wife's dream to her, I asked her
whether her thoughts turned to any one in particular
when her husband died. She said : "To you, of course.
I said to myself I wish Walter were here to help me."
She said that she did not remember thinking of my wife
further than she would of necessitj' do when thinking of
me. My wife is her god-daughter and the only one of
the family with whom she is really intimate.
WAI.TEK BrOWETT.
Of the two letters from Mrs. Meire to which Mr. Browett
refers above, the earher, dated January 29, 1917, and received
by Mrs. Browett on January 30 after she had told Mr. Browett
of her dream, makes only one reference to Mr. Meire, and
says nothmg of his health. The second letter, dated February
14, 1917, which is too personal to print here, makes it evident
that Mr. Meire's death was quite unexpected. He died of
heart-failure about 11.30 p.m. on January 29, 1917, having
been to aU appearances in good, normal health a few minutes
before.
The fact that the telegram amiouncing his death to Mr.
and Mrs. Browett has not been preserved is of little moment.
The hour and day of the death are sufficiently estabhshed by
Mrs. Meire's letter of February 14, 1917, confirmed by the
announcement ui the Tim.es of Feb. 2, 1917, as follows :
Meire.—-On the 29th Jan., at Eyton-on-Sevem, near
Shrewsbury, George Haughton Meire, aged 67.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 235
A dream (L. 1115, Journal, Vol. IX., p. 127) coinciding
with a death, but in which the wrong person was dreamt
of, may perhaps be mentioned here. It was sent to Mr.
Myers by Mr. G. R. Sims, who ckeamt that his sister
came to him and told him his father had died. He told
the dream to his housekeeper in the morning. About
twenty minutes later his sister did come round to tell him
of the death during the night of a brother-in-law. If
we knew more of the circumstances, we might be able to
explain the distortion of the telepathic communication if
there was one.
Death Coincidences—(e) symholic.
Three symboUc experiences, to which not much im-
portance can be attached, conclude the visual death
coincidences. In L. 966 (Journal, Vol. VI., p. 181) Miss
Williams saw a lovely round light over her head as she
passed through a dark room " just about the time " of
the death of a woman whom she knew to be dying, and
with whom she at the time connected the light. In
L. 1093 {Journal, Vol. VIII., p. 130) Mrs. Knight had
impressions of being raised up in bed, of a shimmering
light, and of raps on the bed-head, all of which, as well
as a subsequent dream of death symbols, she took at the
time to indicate that some friend was dying. She did
not, however, think of the death of the friend who
actually died that night. In L. 1094 {Journal, Vol. VIII.,
p. 134), a dream case which came through the American
Branch, Mr. Morse dreamed on the night of his wife's
unexpected death at a distance that he was dressed in
mourning and taking a long journey. He mentioned his
interpretation of the dream before he heard of the death.
Death Coincidences—(/) auditory.
Next must be considered a few auditory death coin-
cidences. There has been an auditory element combined
with the visual in two of the waldng experiences and
some of the dreams already discussed, but in those that
follow the auditory element is either the only element or
236 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick.
the only veridical one. There is one waking experience
—
it was at the moment of waking—in Avhich words were
heard (L. 929, Jotirnal, Vol. V., p. 204). The percipient
was a girl of thirteen, but the case was not recorded till
four years and three months after it happened. I quote
part only of the record. The case was looked into by
Mr. Myers, who writes :
(L. 929.)
I heard the following case from Miss Elsie Spears, the
percipient, and also, separately, from her elder sister. Miss
Spears, at thek home, 48, Godwin-street, Birmingham, Decem-
ber 18th and 17th, 1891. I took down the statement of each,
which they revised and signed. I also saw a card announcing
that the girl here called Clara " Died September 15th, 1887,
aged 13." The two brothers sent me their written corrobora-
tions on December 22nd. F. W. H. M.
The Percipient's Account.
My greatest friend was a girl whom I will call Clara,
of the same age as myself. We had always been together
and were as intimate as girls can be. Clara had a httle
sister of four years old, whom I will caU Maggie. This
httle Maggie was very iU, and Clara and I were very
anxious about her. I went away from Birmingham to
Sutton for my health. I was to stay some time longer.
On Wednesday, September 14th, 1887, I was very anxious
to write to Clara, but I had rheumatism in my hands
and could not do so. I had been thmldng much about
Maggie on the night of September 14/15th. In the
morning I suddenly found myself wide awake, the room
being aheady hght. A voice was saying, close to me,
" Don't fret, Elsie ;
Maggie is living, but it is Clara
that's dead." I looked round, but there was no one
there. Almost at that moment the clock struck six.
The voice was sad. Next day I felt certain that Clara
was gone, and, although my hands were better, I could
not bring myself to write to her. ... On the Saturday
I went out to do an errand for the lady with whom I
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 237
was staying. But suddenly I felt that I could not turn
that way but must go towards the station. As I did
so, I met my brother, who had been sent to bring me
home. . . .
The next case (L. 1180, Journal, Vol. XIV., p. 327), a
dream, is interesting from several points of view. There
was undoubtedly a dream of a death somehow connected
with Sir R. H. a few hours after his brother. General
H.-S., died. But if it was telejDathic, the communication
was incompletely developed both in its manifestation (the
name being incomplete) and in the percipient's appre-
hension of it. Again it is difficult to see why the com-
munication came to Miss F. at all. May we suppose that
it was intended for Sir R. H. but failing to reach his
normal consciousness was as it were reflected on to Miss
F. who knew him well ? Or was it an instance of a
piece of information interesting to the percipient being
accidentally picked up by her during sleep from those
who knew it ? The case seems comparable to P. 269
and L. 1127 (pp. 147 and 144 above), where a sister learns
a brother's place in examination, etc., having no connection
with any possible agents unless it was through him.
(L. 1180.)
The case was communicated to us by General Sir R. H.,
who, while informing us of the full names of all the persons
concerned, requested us to print their initials only. He gives
a prehminary statement of the circumstances, as follows :
Li order to understand the dream, 1 should mention
that my elder brother some years ago took on an additional
surname, so that from General H. he changed to General
H.-S. I am correctly referred to as General H., or
Su- R.
My brother decided to have a shght operation, and
the doctors and surgeons considered there was no risk.
The operation took place in a Nursing Home in London
on April the 25th [1910], and was considered a success.
On the 26th he was found to be suffering severely from
2^8 Mrs. Henry Sictgivick. [pARl"
shock, but this nearly all passed away on the 27th. On
the 28th he was not so well, and by night time the case
was very serious. On the morning of the 29th the
doctors decided that the only hope lay in sleep. Morphia
was given every 4 hours. Before the first injection,
about 7 a.m., he was quite collected and calm, and
agreed to sleep. His son, E., had been with him aU
the time, and his daughter, B., arrived in the early
morning, and she exchanged a few words with her father.
For the rest of the day he was drowsy mider morphia.
About 6.30 p.m. he began to collapse, and breathed his
last at 7 p.m., in the presence of his son and daughter
and the doctors.
Before the operation he was in excellent health, and
very strong for his age, 66.
Miss F. [the dreamer] met my brother once, a year or
two ago. She had met his daughter some years ago,
and she met his son on the 13th April last for the first
and only time, and she Imew shghtly one of my sons,
who received a telegram from his cousin at about 8 p.m.
on the 29th, announcing the death. I have ascertained
that not one of these three persons had given a thought
to Miss F., and it Avould have been strange if they had.
At my request the lady referred to by Miss F. has
signed as correct the statement made to her on April
30th.
Miss F. is devoted to my wife and myself ; she saw us and
our daughter off from Victoria Station for the Continent
on April 16th ; and just in fun I gave her our accident
insurance tickets for the journey, requesting her to hand
them over to my son in case of a tragedy. Before she
had heard of my brother's death, she Avrote to my wife
and said she was anxious to hear nev^s of us, as we had
promised to send a postcard on arrival, and she made
some joking reference to the insurance tickets, but no
mention of the dream she had had. We do not remember
having promised to send the postcard. Miss F. is middle-
aged, absolutely reliable, clever, very exact and methodical.
It will be observed that Miss F. dreamed of my brother's
death a few hours afterwards, on the night of April 29-30,
LXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 239
but she did not know of his death till the night of
May 7th.
At about 6 p.m. on April 30th I received at Aix-les-
Bains a telegram from my son to say my brother had
died on the 29th. R- C. H.
Miss F.'s accoimt, dated May 8th, 1910, is as follows, the
second signature being that of the lady to whom she told her
dream on the morning after its occurrence :
An Account of my Dream of the night of April 2dth-S0th.
In my dream I somehow became aware of the fact,
"General H. is dead." There was a shght hesitation
after H., as if an instrument at work had gone wrong,
and made a hissmg sound. There did not seem any one
about to explam, but I queried m my own mmd, "If
they mean Sir E., Avhy is his title omitted ?
" Agaui
the fact was repeated, and again with the shght hesitation,
and the sound of an " s," as m hissing, and that and the
omission made me feel (m my dream) that there was
something inaccurate about it, though I felt convinced
it had to do with Sir R.'s family, and that it was because
I knew him the information was given to me. The next
mommg (Saturday, April 30th) about 11 a.m. I met a
friend, to whom I told my dream, and I said, "I do
wish I could hear from Aix, as I kiaow my dream has
something to do with Sir R. ; he is mixed up ui it
somehow, I am quite sure." So as I was anxious, I
despatched a letter to Lady H. But neither asleep nor
awake did I once think of the H.-S.'s.
E H F
A. H. C.
On receivmg this account Sir R. H. sent a number of
questions to Miss F., the answers to which she embodied in a
second version, written on May 19th, 1910. The first part
of this is an ahnost verbatim repetition of what she had written
before ; she then adds :
About 11 a.m., Saturday, April 30th, I met a friend in
'
the Edgware Road, to whom I told my dream, and
Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [pakt
stated my anxiety in consequence of it, adding "I wish
Lady H. had sent me a hne, as she kindly promised to
do when we parted a fortnight previously." My friend,
Miss C, remarked, "But Sir R. did not go abroad iU.''
"No," I rephed, "but a good deal can happen in a
fortnight; all three of them could be dead and buried
m that time; however, do not go away with the idea
that it is Sir R., for I am sure it is not, as there was no
title, though at the same time I laiow he is mixed up
in it, so I wish they would wite."
Being stiU anxious, I wrote to Lady H., either that
night or Smiday afternoon, May 1st, but did not mention
my dream, though I stated I was anxious for news I
began my letter with a small joke, though feeling in
anythmg but a jokmg mood.
Lady H.'s letter of May 5th reached me on the night
of May 7th.
^
From it I learnt, for the hrst time, of
General H.-S.'s death havhag occurred on April 29th,
and the thought flashed through my mind, that accounts
for all those " S s " m my dream.
Strange to say, I never once thought of the H.-S.'s
until I received Lady H.'s letter, and yet 1 had met
General H.-S., his son, and daughter.
E. H. F.
A. H. C.
In reply to a further question. Miss F. writes on June
30th, 1910 :
I write to say positively that I had not heard of
General H.-S.'s illness or operation previous to my dream.
To the above case the following dream (M.Cl 88
Journal, Vol. VI., p. 293) has a certain analogy, though
the veridical point relates to an event of public not
private interest. A few instances of a similar kind were
published m the supplement to Phantasms of the Living
Vol. II., pp. 365-370. There are also two cases in the
Journal, Vol. V., which are described in Podmore's book.
Compare also M. Aut. 104, p. 73 above.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised.
(M. CI. 88.)
The case was contained in a letter from Mrs. T. A. WiUiams
to her nephew, Mr. G. Lowes Dicldiison, of King's CoUege,
Cambridge, through whom we received it.
RossLYN Cottage, Pilgedvi's Lane, Hampstead,
July 25th, 1894.
On Monday morning [June 25, 1894], at about 8 o'clock,
Arthur got up and went to call Philip, whom he woke
out of a somid sleep. Philip's door is nearly opposite
ours, and I heard them laughing, and called out to lm©w
what the joke was. Arthur came back and told me PhiUp
had had an absurd dream that the President Camot had
been assassinated. I said I saw nothing "fimny" in that,
and he answered, "Oh! the joke was that he dreamed
that M R (a young Frenchman who lives in Hamp-
stead) had announced the news, addiiig that he expected
to be elected President," at which we all three laughed
again.
Arthur dressed and in about hah-an-hour went do^\^l-
stairs, rushing up again almost immediately, shouting to
Phil (whose door was then locked) "He is assassinated,"
and pointing out the announcement in large print in the
Daily News.
A strange part of it is that Philip takes httle or no
mterest m pohtics of any kmd, and declares that, to
the best of his recollection, Camot's name has not been
mentioned in his hearing. Carnot was stabbed at 9.30
on Sunday night, and died about 4 hours afterwards.
E. B. Williams.
Thornton A. Williajvis.
Philip H. Williams.
The two last signatures are those of IVIrs. Williams' husband
and the percipient, her son.
The date of the assassination of President Camot was
Sunday, Jmie 24th, 1894.
To complete the death coincidences in the collection,
two cases remain to be described, both auditory. In
Mrs. Henry jSidgivich. [part
both the sounds heard were non-vocal and were heard
apparently by all within earshot. This makes it plausible
to suppose that they were real sounds unexplained, and
but little importance would have been attached to 'them
were it not that in each case they occurred exactly at
the time of the death—almost to the minute apparently—
of a person interested in one of the percipients. I will
describe the cases briefly. The first (L. 1141, Jour^ial,
Vol. XL, p. 320) was sent by Mr. J. F. Young, some of
whose own experiences have been given above (see pp.
116 and 129). He knew the percipient Mrs. Page well.
Further evidence, completing the case, was collected by
the Rev. A. T. Fryer. The experience, which was
recorded on October 22, 1904, occurred on December 21,
1903. At three o'clock in the morning Mrs. Page in one
room and her three daughters in another heard footsteps
comnig up the stairs and three knocks on Mrs. Page's
door. She and one of her daughters got up and went
nito the passage, but found no one. The next morning
a message was brought to them that a Mr. Morgan, to
whom Mrs. Page had been very kind during his long
illness, had died at that hour. The percipients had not
m the night associated the sounds with him
The second case (L. 1151, Journal, Vol. XII p 196)
was sent to us by I\Ir. E. R. Pease, who wrote as follows :
(L. 1151.)
November 1st, 1905.
... a working woman was dying of cancer and was
visited daily by Mrs. Rix of Headland Cottage, Limps-
field. She died at 5.20 a.m. on Tuesday [reaUy Monday]
last, Oct. 30th. At the same hour both Mr.'^ and Mrs.
Rix heard a knocking at their door. . . . Mrs. Rix went
down to see what was there and fomid nothing. It is
stated that the servant also heard the loiocking, but this
may be inaccurate. It is stated that the night was
wmdy, but even on the windiest of nights, one does not
get up at 5.20 to go to the front door. At any rate
I never did. . . .
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 243
Mr. and Mrs. Rix kindly sent first-hand accounts of
the incident, rather fuller, dated November 10, 1905.
These substantiaUy agree with the above statement.
They supposed the knocks at the time to be made by
one of the d>ang woman's children come to fetch Mrs.
Rix.
§ 2. Coincidences ivith Illness or Accident.
In this section I have put together cases of waking
haUucinations and dramatic dreams corresponding with
illness or accident occurring to the presumed agent, or to
some one closely connected with him. In such cases the
correspondence is apt to be less definite than in death
coincidences, and therefore the evidence for telepathy less
clear. There are, however, some remarkable cases where
the correspondence is clearly, I think, beyond chance.
I will take first a case (L. 1207, Journal, Vol. XVII.,
p. 230) which seems to me one of the most remarkable
in our coUection. The coincidence is with an attack of
fatal illness and the coincident phantasm was a waking
vision—a scene represented as it were pictorially, but
externalised in the actual space in which the percipient
found herself.
We received it through Sir George Beilby, to whom we
are much indebted for the care with which all available
evidence has been collected.
(L. 1207.)
The percipient's experience took place on April 4, 1913,
and her account of it, which we print below, was given in a
letter to Sir George Beilby, written three years and a half
later, as follows :
October 4, 1916.
I Avill write out the incident which, if you remember,
I told you by word of mouth in Glasgow last June—
the incident of my "sight" or vision of my brother in
AustraUa shortly after he must have fallen into the
unconsciousness which lasted tih his death some days
later.
244 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
It was if I remember rightly on the Friday evening
[April 4, 1913], and—which will fix the date—-I had
been attending a Committee Meeting called on that evening
to help the election of the Rev. Joseph Johnson, minister
of the Park Avenue Congregational Church, Ashton-on-
Mersey, to the Knutsford Board of Guardians. The
election was to take place on the following day. We
had an animated meeting, and with my thoughts full
of this I left before its close, and (alone) turned out into
the brightly hghted and bustling thoroughfare of School
Road, Sale.
I had wallced but a few paces when I was staggered
by seeing, as in a cinema show, reflected in the air in
front of me a clear-cut picture of my brother in Austraha,
lying with the unmistakeably helpless look of a dead or
unconscious man who had just fallen. I saw his pose,
his clothes, and even his thick curlmg hair as if in Ufe
before me.
Mechanically I must have continued walking as no one
appeared to notice me ; but I felt my brother was dying
or dead, or that something tragic was happening to him,
and I began at once praying for him in an agony of
supplication. The picture faded, and I hurried on out
of the light of the shops and mto the darkness of Wash-
way Road.
Suddenly, when halfway along the road, the picture
shone out agaua before my eyes, this time against the dark
sky. Again I saw the prone helpless figure, the colouring
of clothes and hair, then as before it faded quickly away,
and I did not see it again. I think it was between 8
and 9.30 p.m., or about then, that I left the meeting. I
remember that my sister had not been very well, and that
she was in bed. When I reached home I ran up to her
room and broke down m telling her what I had just
seen, saymg I was "sure somethuig had happened to
Edgar." I remember she tried to soothe me by saying I
was simply overtired—that I should get away to bed and
"would see things would be all right m the morning."
I tried to believe this would be so, but all the Saturday
and Sunday followmg I kept thinking of my brother and
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 245
praying constantly for him. On the Monday morning
the post brought a nice kind letter from him writteu from
Hobart from our cousin's home there, enclosing a belated
birthday gift for our small nephew, dated 4th March.
We were so glad to have the letter, and my sister said :
"Now you see Edgar is all right."
On the Thursday morning {i.e. April 10, 1913), my
sister being still confined to bed, I sent up the letters to
her, then suddenly I heard her cry out, and I rushed
upstairs to find her sitting up with a scared look holding
out the (enclosed) letter from Mr. Huie, C.A., from Edm-
burgh, stating that he had just received a cablegram
from Melbourne announcing the death on April 7th of our
brother Mr. J. Edgar Paterson.
The next news we had was when our sister-m-law"s
letter (enclosed) arrived telhng us how Edgar, when
travelling home from New Zealand to Melbourne, had
suddenly fallen down unconscious on the ship when
nearing Melbourne, had been carried ashore at Melbourne
unconscious, and placed in Hospital there (on the
Saturday, April 5th, 1913), where he had lingered without
regaining consciousness till the Monday, April 7th, when
he slipped quietly away. Mary M. Patbeson.
We have received the foUowmg corroborative statement
from Miss Paterson 's sister, Mrs. George Francis, to whom,
as related above, she described her experience on the evenmg
of April 4, 1913, before she knew anything of her brother's
illness :
October 29i/i, 1916.
This is to certify that what my sister, Mary M. Paterson,
has written re Friday, April 4th, 1913, and her experience
then regarding her sight of our brother, is just what she
told me on her return from the Election Meeting.
I perfectly remember the occurrences she describes in
her accompanymg letter to Sir George Beilby.
Emily Fkancis.
According to Miss Paterson's clear recollection, confirmed by
Mrs, Francis, her experience took place when she was on her
246 Mrs. Henry Sidgioich. [part
way home from an election meeting held on behalf of the
Rev. Joseph Johnson. As to the date of this meeting Mr.
Johnson wrote to Miss Paterson as follows:
August 23, 1916.
We were glad to have your letter. Mrs. Johnson,
R , and myself remember the account of your brother's
vision ; and when we get back I think I can verify that
date about the Election Committee. I Imow it was in
April. . . .
J. Johnson.
{Note by Mr. Johnson, received by Miss Paterson,
October 28, 1916.)
Election, April 5, 1913. J. Johnson.
The meeting which Miss Paterson had attended took place
on the day preceding the election, and we have therefore
good evidence for the conclusion that Miss Paterson saw the
apparition of her brother, as described by her, on Friday,
April 4, 1913, between 8 p.m. and 9.30 p.m.
With regard to the time and circumstances of Mr. Edgar
Paterson 's death, we have received the following evidence :
[Letter to Mrs. Francis from Messrs. Huie and Ramage,
C.A.)
Edinbtjrgh, April 9, 1913.
I greatly regret to intimate to you that I have been
informed by cable from Melbourne that Mr. Edgar Paterson
died suddenly there on 7th inst. I annex a copy of the
cable.
Perhaps you will be so good as to inform Miss Paterson.
David Hxjie.
{Copy of Cablegram.)
Melbourne on 8th 12.30 p.m.
Huie Edin.gh.
J. Edgar Paterson died suddenly Melbourne seventh,
Notify sisters. . . ,
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 247
{Extracts from Letters written by Mr. Pater.son's widow in
Australia to Mrs. Francis and Miss Paterson.)
1. April 15 [1913].
. . . Since I wrote you last week a friend of mme has
called who was on the steamer with Edgar. He says he
was the Ufe of the boat, as he always was, and on
Thursday night [April 3, 1913] he was quite bright and
seemed quite weU, but on Friday morning when he was
getting up he broke a blood-vessel, caused by a comphca-
tion of liver and kidney troubles. . . . Two doctors
stayed with him constantly from when he took ill on
Friday, 4th inst., imtil he was removed to the Hospital,
5th inst. . . .
2. Marj 14 [1913].
. . . How funny Mary for you to have had that experi-
ence or presentiment about Edgar on the Friday night,
for that was the day he took ill. . . . Lily says he must
have been thinking of you at the time. . . .
3. June 24, 1913.
. . . One of my brothers-in-law saw the Captain of the
steamer Edgar was on. He took iU between 10 and 11
on Friday morning and was up and dressed. He went
unconscious at once. Two doctors, who were on the
steamer as passengers, stayed with him constantly then a
speciaUst was called on the steamer when it arrived in Mel-
bourne on Ajjril 5th, and an ambulance took him to the
Hospital and they Avired me. ... ^ ^
Georgie Paterson.
It is estabUshed by the evidence given above that Mr.
J. Edgar Paterson was taken HI quite suddenly on board ship,
when on his way to Melboiime, between 10 and 11 a.m. on
Friday, April 4, 1913 (Victoria time), that he became uncon-
scious at once and died in hospital in Melbourne on April 7,
1913. By Greenwich mean time, therefore, he was taken ill
between midnight and 1 a.m. (approximately) on April 4,
1913,^ and he had been imconscious about twenty hours when
1 " Standard time " in Victoria is ten hours in advance of Green'svich
mean time.
Q
248 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [par'.
Miss Paterson saw the apparition of him between 7 p.m
and 9.30 p.m. on that day.
There are several points of interest about the form o:|
this experience. First, the pictorial form of sensorj
hallucination which I have called a vision—externalised
but not realistic, not forming an apparently natural pari
of the surroundings—is unusual among spontaneous cases,
An experience resembling it has been given among semi-
experimental cases (G. 267, p. 54 above), and a spon-
taneous one, which the percipient decided was a dream,
has been quoted among death coincidences (L. 978, p. 213
above). Another waking vision will be found below
(L. 1193, p. 278). Crystal visions are generally of this
kind, and a spontaneous vision in a glass of water is
given above (L. 1134, p. 45). Probably L. 1198 (see
p. 339 below) was a vision. Other cases have been
published—see e.g. Proceedings, Vol. X., p. 217. For a
waking vision which was apparently entirely mental, not
externalised in space, see L. 1160 (p. 149 above). Com-
pare also M.Cl. 22 (p. 57 above) and L. 1152 (p. 58
above).
Secondly, the repetition of the phantasm after an
interval is unusual. It occurs in one or two dreams in
this collection, but not, I think, in any other waking
experience except the semi-experimental vision, G. 267,
just referred to.
Thirdly, it was not a mere apparition of the dying man,
but had other veridical elements. The brother was seen
lying unconscious with his clothes on, which must have
corresponded to what happened at the onset of thei
attack of fatal illness some twenty hours before the vision.'
Whether the vision represented contemporaneous fact
—
the costume, for instance, at the moment of its occur-
rence—we do not know ;
nor, of course, do we know when
the telepathic communication took place, and whether '
or not it remained latent in the percipient's subconscious
mind to emerge at a suitable moment. i
! ' it
In the next case (L. 1209, Journal, Vol. XVIII., p. 19)
'
we have similarly a veridical element in the appearance
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 249
of the bandages as actually worn by the agent. There is
also the same impossibility of fixing the exact time
coincidence. The apparition was seen before any of the
family knew the agent had been wounded, but not till
some thirty hours after the wound occurred, though much
less time after he was admitted to the hospital at Bou-
logne. The misrecognition of the phantasm at first, and
its failure even when recognised to appear in the semblance
of the agent familiar to the percipient is very curious.
It suggests some faulty transmission between the sub-
liminal and supraliminal consciousness. An undeveloped
figure in the darkness first suggested the little boy in the
flesh, and the idea of a child having entered the per-
cipient's mind perhaps could not be shaken off again.
The bandage may have then produced the association of
ideas with the youthful portrait of the agent.
(L. 1209.)
Our earliest information about the case was contained in a
letter from Lieut. Bridge, as foUows
:
Enfield, Gateshead,
November 2, 1916.
The following presents an unusual feature to me—but
possibly you can explain it.
My age is 34.
I was wounded in France July 24th, 1916, 3.30 p.m.
Between 1 and 2 a.m. July 26th, 1916, I appeared to
Mrs. S. Jones (my wife's mother) at this address, waking
her from sleep.
The physical appearance corresponded with that of a
photo taken when I was about 3 years old—the head
was bandaged shewing only forehead—eyes—nose—mouth,
and a Httle of the chin.
Except for the age and apparent height (only head
was seen clearly)—this was the condition I was in, and I
was in hospital at Boulogne—to the best of my recollection
asleep, and of course with 2 days' growth of beard.
The apparition was taken for my son " in the flesh
"
250 Mrs. Henry Sidgioiclc. [part
at first and was asked what was the matter. Mrs. Jones
then recognized me—I smiled and vanished.
The War Office telegram announcing the casualty was
received at 9 p.m., July 26th.
Mrs. Jones did not laiow me till I was about 19—at
which time and ever since I have had a small moustache
—and she always thmks of me as grown up—never as a
child. h\ these circumstances, can you explain why I
should appear as a child and not in my most easily
recognizable form ?
That I appeared to Mrs. Jones I can understand as she
is more psychic than my wife.
G. E. W. Bkidge, Lt. Durh. L.I.
The above is substantially correct. I might add that I
had not looked at the photograph mentioned for at least
4 E. M. Jones.
In reply to this letter we wrote to Lieut. Bridge asking
for a detailed report by Mrs. Jones herself and a corroborative
statement, if obtainable, from some person to whom she had
related her experience before the news came that Lieut. Bridge
was wounded. We received an answer from Mrs. Bridge as
foUows :
Enfield, Gateshead,
November 5, 1916.
My husband has just returned to duty. ... I enclose
a full account written by Mrs. Jones, of her experience
of July 26th. This corresponds with her description to
me on August 5th.
I see that it is unfortunate, from the point of view of
'
evidence,' that she told no one before this date. I
can only say that as far as we ourselves are concerned,
this makes no difference, as we do not admit the possi-
bility of her altering the facts, even involuntarily. She
is particularly clear-headed and well-balanced, and when
relating one or two rather similar experiences, I have
never known her vary in the accomits in the shghtest
degree.
j
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 251
I am not surprised that my husband should appear to
her—they have often discussed such things, and are
much in sympathy—though the '
least-famihar '
form has
puzzled us all. . . .
Majbgabet E. Bridge.
{Statement by Mrs. Jones, enclosed in Mrs. Bridge's letter of
November 5, 1916.)
Enfield, Gateshead.
During the early momuig of Wed., July 26th, 1916, I
woke from sleep, Avith the idea that someone was in my
room. I opened my eyes to absolute darkness, but at
the right side of my bed stood a misty figure, Avhich I
at first took for my httle grandson, and I asked him
why he was there. No answer came, but the face became
more distinct, and I saw it resembled a photograph of
my son-in-law, taken when he was about three years old.
In the photograph one can see short' curls, but in my
vision the lower part of forehead, eyebrows, eyes, nose,
mouth and part of chin were clearly visible, but hair,
ears, lower part of chin and neck were hidden by white
wrappings. As I looked and wondered, the mouth ex-
panded into a smile, and the appearance vanished, the
room being still iii darkness. My grandson had not
been quite well the previous day, and my first thought
was to go and see if he were worse, but as I knew his
mother had settled to sleep in his room, I decided not
to risk alarmmg her.
I did not mention the occurrence to anyone, as we
only had servants in the house, and naturally I did not
want to say anj-thing to my daughter at once. I made
up my mmd to wait until she had had a letter from her
husband of later date than July 26th, and then tell her
how anxious I had felt.
The W.O. wire came on the evening of July 26th,
and in the rush and hurry of her departure I had no
chance to tell her until she came home on Aug. 5th for
a couple of nights, leaving her husband in. hospital.
When I described what I had seen, she told me that his
head and neck were bandaged in that way.
252 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [PAET
I could understand his appearing to me as he looks
normally, as we have been great friends, and I have made
my home with them for some years. The puzzle is why
he should appear to me as a young child.
Ellen M. Jones.
We then wrote to Mrs. Bridge, putting the following ques-
tions :
(a) Is it possible to get any evidence corroborating Mrs.
Jones's recollection that her experience took place in the early
morning of July 26, 1916 : e.g. Mrs. Jones mentions that your
son had been unwell on the previous day ; have you any
evidence as to when he was unwell ?
(6) When did you first know the nature of the wound
from which Lieut. Bridge was suffering 1 Were any details
on this point given in the War Ofifice telegram ?
(c) Has this telegram been preserved, and can we see it ?
(d) How old is your son now, and is he noticeably hke
the photograph of his father to which Mrs. Jones refers ?
(e) Is there any reason to suppose that when Lieut. Bridge
was a yoimg child, i.e. at about the time when this j)hoto-
graph was taken, he had an accident which necessitated the
bandagmg of his head ?
The object of these last questions, {d) and (e), was to see
whether any association of ideas could be fomid in the mind
of Mrs. Jones which would accomit for the circumstance that
she saw the apparition of Lieut. Bridge in the shape of a
photograph of him taken as a child many years before she
knew him. The fact that Mrs. Jones had been concerned
about her grandson's health on the previous day might accoimt
for her momentarily identifying the apparition with this boy
as she did (see above), but there was no apparent link with
the photogra])h of Lieut. Bridge.
To these questions Mrs. Bridge replied as follows :
Enfield, Gateshead,
November 18, 1916.
{a) My boy used to suffer very much from asthma.
Last July he had a very slight return of this, following
[vXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 253
an attack of hay-fever. I noted in my diary that I kept
him in bed on Smiday, July 23rd. On the 25th he Avas
" decidedly better " but still in bed, and I continued to
sleep in his room. On tbe morning of the 26th he was
"practically aU right," and on the 27th was out of doors
again.
(6) My husband was wounded by shrapnel, all dowii the
left side. I first Imew the locahty of the womids on the
morning of July 28th, when I received by the first post
(1) a few hnes scribbled by my husband in the trenches,
at 4.30 p.m., on the 24th: "I'm hit slightly in the face
and arm. Shell. Merely skin wounds. Don't worry."
And (2) a letter from his Coy. Commander of same date :
" He was hit by httle bits of a 4-2 shell—shghtly in
face, arm and leg." I knew no further particulars until I
saw him in hospital in London on July 29th. The W.O.
telegram does not say anything about the locahty of the
womads.
(c) I have this telegram before me now. ... I quote
it in fuU :
"York O.H.M.S. 8.15 p.m. Received Newcastle July 26.
8.26 p.m.
" Mrs. Bridge. Enfield. Gateshead.
"Regret Capt.^ G. E. W. Bridge admitted 7 Stationary
Hospital Boulogne July 25 gimshot woimds multiple Con-
!
dition satisfactory Territorial Records."
I received it here at "Enfield" at 9.15 p.m. Time
noted in my diary. A taxi arrived at almost the same
moment to take a visitor to the station and I sent a
maid with her, to despatch a telegram from Newcastle
to the Hospital at Boulogne.
{d) My boy was 10 years old on July 27th, and was
never particularly hke the photo in question. But Mrs.
Jones used to remark on my girl's resemblance to the
photo, when she was about 3 years old. She is now
7|, but when a baby, 9 months old, she had an operation
1 Lieut. Bridge had held a temporary captaincy in a reserve battalion
before proceeding to the front. Hence the use of this title in the
telegram. •
252 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. . [part
I could understand his appearing to me as he looks
normally, as we have been great friends, and I have made
my home with them for some years. The puzzle is why
he should appear to me as a yoimg child.
Ellen M. Jones.
We then wrote to Mrs. Bridge, putting the following ques-
tions :
(a) Is it possible to get any evidence corroborating Mrs.
Jones's recollection that her experience took place in the early
morning of July 26, 1916 : e.g. Mrs. Jones mentions that your
son had been unwell on the previous day ; have you any
evidence as to when he was unwell ?
(6) When did you first know the nature of the woimd
from which Lieut. Bridge was suffering ? Were any details
on this point given in the War Office telegram ?
(c) Has this telegram been preserved, and can we see it ?
{d) How old is your son now, and is he noticeably like
the photograph of his father to which Mrs. Jones refers ?
(e) Is there any reason to suppose that when Lieut. Bridge
was a yoimg child, i.e. at about the time when this photo-
graph was taken, he had an accident which necessitated the
bandaging of his head ?
The object of these last questions, [d) and (e), was to see
whether any association of ideas could be found in the mind
of Mrs. Jones which would accomit for the circumstance that
she saw the apijarition of Lieut. Bridge in the shape of a
photograph of him taken as a child many years before she
knew him. The fact that Mrs. Jones had been concerned
about her grandson's health on the previous day might accoimt
for her momentarily identifying the apjjarition with this boy
as she did (see above), but there was no apparent link with
the photogra]3h of Lieut. Bridge.
To these questions Mrs. Bridge replied as follows: ;
Enfield, Gateshead,
November 18, 1916.
(a) My boy used to suffer very much from asthma.
Last July he had a very slight return of this, foUowing
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 25S
an, attack of hay-fever. I noted in my diary that I kept
him in bed on Simday, July 23rd. On the 25th he Avas
" decidedly better " but still in bed, and I continued to
sleep ua his room. On the morning of the 26th he was
" practically all right," and on the 27th was out of doors
again.
(6) My husband was wounded by shrapnel, all down the
left side. I first knew the locality of the womids on the
morning of July 28th, when I received by the first j)ost
(1) a few lines scribbled by my husband in the trenches,
at 4.30 p.m., on the 24th :
" I'm hit slightly in the face
and arm. Shell. Merely skin wounds. Don't worry."
And (2) a letter from his Coy. Commander of same date :
" He was hit by httle bits of a 4*2 shell—shghtly in
face, arm and leg." I knew no further particulars until I
saw him in hospital in London on July 29th. The W.O.
telegram does not say anything about the locahty of the
wounds.
(c) I have this telegi'am before me now. ... I quote
it in fuU :
"York O.H.M.S. 8.15 p.m. Received Newcastle July 26.
8.26 p.m.
"Mrs. Bridge. Enfield. Gateshead.
"Regret Capt.^ G. E. W. Bridge admitted 7 Stationary
Hospital Boulogne July 25 gunshot woimds multiple Con-
dition satisfactory Territorial Records."
I received it here at " Enfield " at 9.15 p.m. Time
noted in my diary. A taxi arrived at almost the same
moment to take a visitor to the station and I sent a
maid with her, to despatch a telegram from Newcastle
to the Hospital at Boulogne.
{d) My boy was 10 years old on July 27th, and was
never particularly like the photo in question. But Mrs.
Jones used to remark on my girl's resemblance to the
photo, when she was about 3 years old. She is now
7|, but when a baby, 9 months old, she had an operation
Lieut. Bridge had held a temporary captaincy in a reserve battalion
before proceeding to the front. Hence the use of this title in the
telegram.
254 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
which necessitated a head-bandage. Mrs. Jones saw the
child, on one occasion only, and for a few minutes, with
this bandage. We none of ns loiow of any accident to
my husband which would have made it necessary for him
to have his head bound ujd. Makgaeet E. Bridge.
To this letter Mrs. Jones added a note, thus :
When the telegram came telling us of my son-in-law's
wound, I at once concluded he had been wounded on the
Tuesday night (July 25, 1916), and was surprised when we
heard later that it was on the Monday afternoon.
E. M. Jones.
We have also received an additional communication from
Lieut. Bridge, as follows:
November 9, 1916.
. . . From a purely evidential point of view, it is a
weak point that Mrs. Jones did not mention her experience
till the first opportunity after the news, but a comment
of my wife's when telling me of it is to a certain extent
corroborative : "I thought she had something on her
mind that day—she was so restless and fidgetty—and
seemed reUeved when the telegram came."
Usually Mrs. Jones is particularly self-controlled and
possessed.
I think you have hit upon the solution of the form of
the phantasm.
My daughter Avhen about the same age looked very hke
the photo, and when young had an operation which
necessitated a head bandage very similar to the one I
had. This in conjmiction with the keen sympathy existing
in the family suggests a very feasible train of thought
—
especially on just awakening from sleep.
This explanation to my mind counteracts the other
defect shghtly, as in the case of moulding an indistinct
presentiment or an intelligent anticipation upon a known
faii accompli, the comphcation of the child-like appearance
would not have been added.
Another factor is that Mrs. Jones (lier daughter, and I
Lxxxvi.J Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 255
to a less extent) is so accustomed to this type of experi-
ence that there is no question of fear confusiiig the
impression received.^ G. E. W. Bridge, Lt.
It is difficult to judge in the next case (L. 1088, Journal,
Vol. VIII., p. 78) whether the illness was sufficiently
definite to constitute a striking coincidence with the
percipient's hallucination, which occurred on the line
between sleeping and waking ; but it is interesting that
telepathic communication seems to have taken place
between the agent and percipient on other occasions. I
give two of these which occurred within our five-year limit.
(L. 1088.)
The Hon. Miss K. Ward writes :
84, Sloane Street, S.W., April 22nd,, 1897.
•
-
(I)
Two years ago, on awaking one morning at 8 o'clock,
I saw a distinct appearance of my sister Emily, seated
at the foot of my bed in her night-gown. She was
rocking herself backwards and forwards as if in pain.
Putting out my hand to touch her, the phantasm vanished.
Going into my sister's room half an hour later, I related
to her my experience, and she (being still in much pain)
informed me that at 8 o'clock she had actually been in
the position above described, on her oivn bed, and had
meditated coming into my room, but had not liked to
-
disturb me ;
(she had been perfectly well the night
before). My sister's room is at some distance from mine,
being divided therefrom by a corridor and cross-door.
"
" - Kathleen Ward.
'
:
'
Emily G. Ward.
1 An account of several of these earlier experiences has been sent to us
by Mrs. Jones " not for publication." They are all of an hallucinatory
character, and include (i) two visual hallucinations, apparently pre-
monitory ;
(ii) a visual hallucination (of a fully developed figure) for
which Mrs. Jones cannot account in any way. So far as she is aware
it was subjective and not veridical ;
(iii) an auditory hallucination,
contemporaneous with the sudden illness (a fainting-fit) of the person
whose voice was heard.
256 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
(II)
On the 12th of Febniary, this year, my sister and I
were driving together. In the course of conversation, I
mentioned an absurd dream I had had the preceding night,
in which I appeared to have been in possession of a
bicycle made of pure gold, studded with rubies and
diamonds. " That is most extraordinary !
" exclaimed my
sister ;
"for in bed last night I was reading a silly story
which came out in this month's Cyclists' Touring Club
Gazette, about a rider who owned a bicycle as dazzling
as the one in your dream !
" I must mention that I
had not seen that particular number of the Gazette, or
indeed any other, as I do not belong to the club in
question.
Kathleen Ward.
(Ill)
On the 20th of last month, my sister Emily was lunching
with Mrs. Maude. In conversation they got upon psychical
subjects, and my sister related some of the experiences
given above. After Imich Mrs. Maude suggested a game
of " Patience," the particular one fixed upon being known
to us as "Demon Thirteen." In wishing my sister
good-bye, Mrs. Maude said, "Now ask your sister what
we did directly after lunch, and see whether she can
tell us." Later on my sister met me at another house.
She at once asked me Mrs. Maude's question. In a
moment the vision of these two bending over the cards,
came before me, and I said, "Playing Patience." "And
which game ? " pursued my sister. (We loiow and play
at least twenty varieties.) "Demon Thirteen," was my
answer. I should add, that my sister had never happened
before to play " Patience " at that particular hour. I
shall send this to Mrs. Maude, asking her kindly to
append her signature, stating that above is correct.
Kathleen Wabd.
The following note is appended: ,
I can vouch for the correctness of above.
Jenny Maude.
LXXXVT.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 257
The next case (L. 1129, Journal, Vol. X., p. 263) is
again one of not very serious illness, and again one on
the line between sleeping and waking. It is interesting
that it should be followed by a more or less veridical
dream.
I
(L. 1129.)
The following letter was addressed to Mr. Piddington. We
were asked not to print the writer's name and address :
Dear Sm, Oct. 6th, 1901.
On reading your letter to the Spectator of Oct. 5th,
I thought you might possibly be interested in a coincid-
ence which took place at the end of August last. I am
attached to a certain young lady. At the time I refer
to I was staying near Peterboro' and the lady in question
was at her home, a seaside town in Yorkshire. One
very close and thimdery night I found some difficulty
in getting to sleep. When finally I fell asleep, or rather
dozed, the face of IVIiss D. rose up before me, and to my
surprise one side of her face was very much swollen and
I
she looked very unhappy. I sat up in bed and spoke
' to her, only to find that I had been dreaming. Again
I feU asleep and dreamt that I was walking along a street,
when I heard a cry above me, and looking up saw IVIiss
D.'s face at a window from which smoke and flames
were issuing. I rushed upstairs, only to see her face
floating in the smoke, very much swollen. I tried to
grasp her, and woke up with a cry. Somehow the dream
depressed me, and next day in writing to JMiss D. I told
her the whole thing, much as I have told you. Imagine
my surprise a day after, when I heard from her that on
the night in question she had gone out to see a house on
fire—Mrs. K.'s seaside residence ; had contracted a chill,
and gone to bed with her face enormously swollen up,
and had suffered severe toothache aU night. Our letters
on the subject wUl confirm dates, etc. ... H. B.
Mr. H. B. was an undergraduate of College, Cambridge.
He was asked to caU on Mrs. VerraU and give her further
258 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
particulars, and he did so on October 16th, 1901. Mrs.
Verrall reported as follows :
5, Selwyn Gakdens, Cambridge, Oct. 16th, 1901.
I have just seen Mr. H. B., and have no doubt at aU
that the case is genuine. At the same time the evidence
is not quite so complete as I had hoped from his letter,
but these are the facts as given me by him : On a certain
Sunday in August (subsequently ascertained to be the 25th)
H. B. dreamt, as he told Mr. Piddimgton, that he saw
Miss D. with a swollen face, and later on the same night,
that he saw her at a window from which smoke and fire
were coming. On Monday he wrote to Miss D. to ask
if she had had a toothache, but on second thoughts
decided that it would make him feel fooUsh if nothing
had occurred, and so tore up the letter. On a later day
in the week he was writing to her about other things,
and then mentioned his vivid dream about the swollen
face (this part of the business evidently impressed him
much more than the fire). But before he sent this letter
he received one from her mentioning that she had been
suffermg from a severe toothache and swollen face since
Sunday night. This letter I have seen ; it is dated from
Filey, on " Wednesday " (obviously August 28th), and
begms by saying that she is sorry not to have written
before, but has been " seedy ever since Sunday. I think
I must have got a chill ;
anyhow, I had raging toothache
from Sunday night till " the day before, when she had
the tooth out with gas. The letter went on to give a
graphic description, with a sketch, of her appearance
during the time that her face was swollen.
On the receipt of this letter, H. B. was so much aston-
ished to find that his dream about the swollen face was
true that he added a postscript to his letter (which had
not yet gone) to say that he had seen her with a swollen
face at a window from which smoke was coming, and to
ask if that part of the dream was also true.
Her letter in answer to that I have also seen. It is
dated from Filey on August 31st, 1901, and I copy the
important part :
—" I was awfully interested in your
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 259
dream ; it is the queerest thing I have heard of for ages.
The funny part of it is that I got the cold which made
my toothache so bad by going out on Sunday evening,
hearing that there was a fire on the Crescent. It was
Mrs. K.'s house ; one of the bedrooms got on fire. It
was nothing much, and was put out before the Fire
Brigade arrived. . . . Auntie M. first noticed smoke
coming out of the wmdow." The writer goes on to say
(and this seems to me very interesting) " M. gave me a
sleeping powder on Simday night, so I slept heavily, m
spite of the pain." She also says that she thought about
him a good deal on Monday night when she had seen
what a sight she was, but not on Sunday.
Of course it is unfortunate, evidentially, that nothing
was posted from him to her till after her letter mentioning
the swoUen face. At the same time I think the two
letters of hers which I have seen estabhsh the truth of
his statement that he mentioned the fire to her before
hearing of it from her. His whole account of the matter
impressed me as frank and accurate ; he showed me the whole
of the letters, which were in their envelopes, so that the
postmarks confirmed the contents of the letters as to dates.
He does not think that the lady will have kept his
letters, nor that it would be of any use to write to her
,
for corroboration.
He tells me that he has never had any similar experience
before ; he dreams constantly, but he dwelt emphatically
on the very vivid nature of the earlier part of this dream.
The impression was so strong that he sat up and spoke
to the lady before he realised that he was dreammg. He
has several times guessed the thoughts, after an interval
of silence, both of this lady and of one of his three
sisters ; he has had no success with his other sisters,
,
, nor has he ever had any impression unless he and the
sister (or Miss D.) were in the same room. Since this
episode he dreamt that Miss D. was angry with him,
and encouraged by the August exj^erience, he wrote to
her to ask if it were true. She rephed that it was not,
but that on the same night she had dreamt that he was
angry with her. M. de G. Vebball.
260 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. '
[part
A simple dream of illness (L. 964, Journal, Vol. V.,
p. 168) came through the American Branch. Mr.
M'Culloch, writing in January, 1892, reports that while
away from home in the autumn of 1889 he dreamt that
his wife was beside him and that he heard her say
"I am so sick." He told the dream to two friends who
corroborate, and on returning home a few days later
found that his wife had been taken ill that night and
sent for the doctor.
In the following case (L. 1195, Journal, Vol. XVI.,
p. 41) it is perhaps more natural to suppose that the
person intending to telegraph was the agent rather than
the sick person, but the coincidence is undoubted :
(L. 1195.)
The dream was reported to Sir Oliver Lodge by the per-
cipient, Mr. W. E. Perry, as foUows :
18, Palmeeston Rd., Spaekbkook,
Feb. 3rd, 1913.
On Thursday morning last at about 8.0 I was on the
point of getting up when I suddenly dropped asleep
again and dreamt that my father (deceased 10 years)
came to me and, immediately after, I saw a telegram
which contained the words "Come Grannie." I at once
seemed to look for the sender's name but could not make
out the name.
My father seemed connected somehow with the message,
and yet the telegram was not in any one's hands but
simply lay against the surrounding dark.
On awaking I told my wife that her grandmother was
worse and related the dream. I enclose the telegram
[which fulfilled the dream]. I had a similar experience
at the death of my father, but then I heard my name
distinctly called three times, and so distinctly the third
time that I was awake when I heard it. W. E. Perry.
The telegram, now in our possession, is worded Come Grannie
nnkiny rapidly unconscious. It is stamped " Sparkbrook,
Lxxxvi.] Sfontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 261
Birmingham, Jan. 30, '13," and is timed as having been
handed in at Derby Rd., Longeaton, at 8.50 a.m., and received
at Sparkbrook at 9.15 a.m.
In reply to an enquiry from Sir Ohver Lodge as to the
time when he told his wife of the dream, Mr. Perry writes :
18, Pai,merston Rd., Sparkbrook,
-
Birmingham, Feb. Uh, 1913.
. . . The time at which I told her was between 8.30
and 8.40. I could not tell to a minute or two, as while
I quite expected the dream to be fulfilled, I was not
thinking of it as a case for the Psychical Research Society.
It was only after I had seen my wife off at the station
that I remembered some of the cases in your " Survival
of Man," and decided to communicate with you.
W. E. Perry.
Mrs. Perry corroborates as follows :
Feb. mh, 1913.
On the morning of Jan. 30th my husband told me that
he had dreamt that Grannie was worse and he had seen a
telegram which asked for me to come. This was soon
after 8.30 a.m., and the telegram came about three-
quarters of an hour later, while we were at brealifast.
At the time he told me of the dream I attached no
special importance to it, but thought the coincidence
strange when the telegram came.
I -i -:
' WmiFRED A. Perry.
We asked Mr. Perry whether his grandmother's condition
was causing him any anxiety at the time of his experience,
and his reply is as follows :
- . 18, Paijmerston Rd., Sparkbrook,
Birmingham, Feb. 19th, 1913.
I may say that we knew Grandmother was brealdng
up, her age being 87, and should not have been surprised
to hear of her death, but we were not anticipating the
end to be so near. Grandmother had been able to get
about well up till about a week prior to Jan. 30th, and
both my wife and I thought that a few days in bed
262 Mrs. He7iry Sidgivick. [part
would enable her to recover strength as previously. The
death took place on Friday morning at 4.10, Feb. 7th.
W. E. Perky.
Tlie following symbolic dream (L. 937, Journal, Vol. V.,
p. 251) is narrated by Professor Charles Richet's cousin,
Mme. Vavin, originally in French, here translated. The
account is midated, but as it was printed in the Journal
for May 1892, the interval between the experience in
December 1891 and the report of it cannot have been
very long. It is an interesting case of gradual emergence
of the veridical idea. The dream coincided with the
beginning of the fatal illness of Professor Richet's father,
the facts concerning which are as follows :
(L. 937.)
On Saturday, December 26th, 1891, [in the south of France],
M. A. Richet, aged 76, [the father of Professor Ch. Richet],
was seized with a violent bronchitis, which during the night of
December 26th-27th led to violent agitation and some dehrium.
Next morning telegrams were sent to M. Charles Richet and
his other children in Paris, saying that their father's illness,
although not precisely dangerous, was, at his age, a serious
one. . . . During the Sunday the patient's state grew worse ;
and he expired at 1 p.m., December 30th.
Madame Vavin writes :
I was very anxious and troubled as to the health of
an Aunt who is very dear to me ; and on the evening
of December 26th-27th, 1891, I had received a letter
giving me very alarming news of this Aunt. I anticipated
her immediate death, and went to sleep in this state of
mind. I then dreamt as follows. I was present at a
funeral, which seemed to belong to my family. I saw
my brother in uniform and all my relations in mourning.
I at first thought that this must be my Aunt's funeral
;
—yet my grief did not seem to me to be as great as I
should have felt in such a case ; and I saw in the group
before me my cousin, the grandchild and nearest relative
of this Aunt, in very slight mourning. Suddenly a voice
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 263
seemed to whisper these words in my ear, " This is not
your Atmt's funeral,—but the funeral of M. Richet, who
is about to die." At this moment I awoke.
Next day my brother told me that M. Richet was ill,
—a fact of which I was quite unaware. I then told my
dream to him and to several other persons.
Mahguekite Vavin.
Madame Vavin's brother, above referred to, corroborates,
(G. 234.)
Another symbolic dream of a funeral (G. 234, Journal,
Vol. VI., p. 83) recorded before the dreamer knew of the
death may be mentioned here, though it did not coincide
definitely with illness or with death. It occurred to
Mr. J. V. Owen in America between the death and funeral
of his mother in England. She was very old, but he
knew of no special reason for anxiety. He wrote to his
sister before he knew of the death, in answer to her
letter announcing their mother's serious illness, as follows :
I dreamed I was in a house where there was a funeral
going on. Everybody was dressed in black, and I saw
you all there except mother, and father [dead 16 years]
told me that she was dead, and that it was her funeral
that was then in process of being carried out ; and I
have not been able to shake off the sad feeling it caused
me since. If dear mother is still ahve, tell her, etc. . . .
Another dream connected with a funeral (L. 994, Journal,
Vol. VII., p. 176) may be naturally classed with the one
just described. Again there is a want of very exact
coincidence, but it was related before any coincidence was
suspected, and it was recorded sixteen days after its
occurrence. Mrs. Peebles dreamt that the baby of a
friend of her daughter and acquaintance of her own was
dead and preparations were being made for the burial.
She dreamt this on the night of the day on which the
funeral, which her daughter attended, had taken place,
and told her husband of it in the morning, as he testifies,
before they had heard of illness or death.
264 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part! i
There are two experiences coinciding with the oncoming
of fatal illness which the percipient did not at the time (
connect with the sick person. In the first (L. 967, Journal, ,
Vol. VI., p. 183)—a waking auditory hallucination—no ]
idea at all of illness or death seems to have been sug- f
gested. It is perhaps most reasonable to suppose in this
case that the coincidence between the illness and the ]
unrecognised call was accidental, especially as, if there was
telepathy, the link between agent and percipient was
apparently local only (cf. L. 1087 above, p. 183). To
describe the case briefly, a nursery maid named Margaret -
heard herself called one night as she was preparing for i
bed. Supposing it was her mistress, Mrs. " Thompson," [
she went out into the passage but found no one, and j
while listening thought she heard a deep sigh. She spoke s
of the experience to the governess next day. Later it [
was learnt that Mrs. Thompson's brother-in-law, Mr. ^
Edward Thompson, had been taken ill that evening and t
died two days later. His much-loved sister, also named j
Margaret, had till lately occupied the room in which the !
(
nursery maid and children now slept and in which she
heard the call, and Edward Thompson's mind is said to !
have been dwelling on his sister during his illness. It will
be observed, however, that the call "Margaret" heard by
the percipient suggested to her a female, not a male, voice.
In the other unrecognised case (L. 987, Journal, Vol.
VII., p. 106) which came through the American Branch
of the Society, Mrs. Krekel, in a dream or in a state
between sleeping and waking, heard a loud rap on her
bed-head and afterwards saw an arm thrust over her
shoulder handing her a large envelope with mourning
border and the word death upon it. She told the dream
to a friend, who corroborates. She afterwards learnt that
her mother, 500 miles away, had been taken ill that night
and died two days later. The accoimt was written
within a week of the experience. It appears that the
mother had rapped on the furniture to call attention to
her need of assistance, and Mrs. Krekel is inclined to
attribute the auditory part of her experience to this fact ;
but this seems pressing the coincidence too far.
Lxxxvi.J Spontaneous Gases : hripression Externalised. 265
There are three cases—one of apparitions and two of
dreams—in which two percipients are concerned, and
which for this reason it is convenient to take together.
In the first two the agent's experience is illness, as in
the cases just dealt with.
In the first (L. 820, Journal, Vol. III., p. 356) the two
percipients in different rooms, but on the same evening, see
apparitions of the sick person. It has been described in
Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 309, but I do think it has been
printed in full except in the Journal, perhaps because, as
Roll be seen, the accounts given by the two percipients
are not completely consistent in detail. This is not sur-
prising in records made more than two and a half years
after the experience. It will be noticed that there was
something a little grotesque—unhke a real person—in the
behaviour or appearance of both apparitions, and a
symbolic suggestion of mourning, and therefore death, in
the second. One of the percipients, Mrs. Treloar, writes :
(L. 820.)
On August 26th, 1885, Mr. Treloar and I, then Hving
at The Firs, Bromyard, dined with my brother, the Rev.
W. Cowpland. Mr. Treloar's letter of March 3rd, 1888,
will describe what happened.
" My wife and I were dining with my brother-in-law,
and there met my wife's sister, who lived a short distance
from the rectory. It was a very lively party, and this
lady was in the best of health and spirits. It was on a
Wednesday. . . . On the Tuesday following, in the evening,
about eight o'clock, my wife, who had been in the nursery
during the half-hour the nurse was having her supper,
went into our bedroom, where there was a lamp burning
on the dressing-table ; and as she passed the bed, in
going roimd to the other end of the room, she saw, as
she thought, a black dress on the other side of the bed,
but on looldng again, a figure slowly rose up from what
appeared a bent position, and looked straight at her for
the space of three or four seconds ; and she then recog-
nised her sister. Her face was very pale, and had a look
of anguish on it, My wife came downstairs, and I noticed
266 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
that she seemed troubled, and on askmg her what had
upset her, she told me. I, of course, thought it must
have been a delusion. Next evening (Wednesday, Sep-
tember 2nd), just as Ave were sitting down to dinner, the
groom of our doctor came to the house and said his
master wished to see me. I went down and fomid him
just about to start for my sister-in-law's residence, as he
told me that she had sent for him, and from what he
could learn she was in a most dangerous state from
diphtheria. She died two days afterwards, and my wife
never saw her, as it was, in the doctor's opinion, running
too great a risk."
This account is correct, but does not state that just
as I had told him of the apparition, my niece. Miss Maud
Cowpland, who was staying with us, came rushing down-
stairs from her bedroom, whither she had gone a few
minutes before—and simultaneously I began to tell her
what I had seen, and she, scarcely heeding me, burst out,
"I've seen Auntie Annie ! I've seen Aimtie Annie !
"
[Mr. Treloar confirms this.] I did not question her
further then, but her letter appended shows what she saw.
She left the house next day, I believe partly on account
of the fright. I had never before seen, nor have I
since seen, any apparition whatever, nor have I had any
other experience at all resembling those which I here
recount. After the first moment, I was not alarmed
by the vision of my sister Anne. She was so remarkably
vigorous and full of life that the idea of her death never
occurred to me. In fact, what happened was this :
there was diphtheria m the parish, and she most impru-
dently kissed a school-child suffering from that disease.
On the Tuesday evening (when the figure was seen) she
had retired early to her room, saying to her servants
that she had a bad cold. They were young, and there
was no one in her house to whom she would have spoken
confidentially as to her state. All that can be known,
then, of her condition at this moment is that she was
alone in her room—whether asleep or awake we do not
l<mow—and that next day she sent for the doctor, and was
fatally ill. There was a strong affection between her and myself.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 267
I may add that the figure which I saw had a boimet
and veil on, the veil beuig tied back round her bonnet,
as was my sister's wont. The lamp was bright, and so
clearly did I see the figure that I observed the freckles
on the nose. My sister had fine, expressive eyes, and
their look m the apparition was full of anxiety and pam.
The figure did not disappear instantaneously, but seemed
to thin away into air.
Miss Maud Cowpland describes her experience as follows :
April Uth, 1888.
The year my father died I went to spend a few days
with my aunt, Mi's. Treloar. The second night, after
wishing her good-night, about a quarter-past ten, I retired
to my room, and while having my bath I felt an unseen
power compel me to turn towards a couch which stood
at the foot of the bed, at the head of which (I mean
the couch) stood a figure dressed in crape, whom I im-
mediately recognised as Miss Cowpland, and exclaimed :
" Why, Amit Annie, how is it you are here ?
" Then
the figure gradually disappeared.
In answer to questions Miss Cowpland adds :
1. I have never seen anythmg before IMiss Cowpland's
appearance, but often before and afterwards, when alone,
have felt people, or, I think I should say spirits, around
and near me. One afternoon last summer, a feehng
came over me as of a hand, with long, soft fingers,
stroking my face.
2. The crape seemed to faU in thick folds from the
crown of the head to the gromid, but those folds over
the face, instead of hiding, threw the features out most
distinctly. I cannot say exactly how long it stayed
;
perhaps half a minute ; not longer.
3. I am ashamed to say I felt most horribly afraid. . . .
I mentioned it to three people, Mr. and Mrs. Treloar,
and the servant, whom I asked to sleep with me, as I
was too much of a coward to do so alone after that,
in that particular room. Yes, I remember IMrs. Treloar
268 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
telling me what she had seen ; it was after that that I
told her my experience.
The second case (L. 1210, Joimial, Vol. XVIII., p. 25)
was sent to us through Mr. George Tyrrell, an Associate
of the Society, who is personally acquainted with the
dreamers. The names and addresses of all the persons
concerned have been sent to us, but we have been re-
quested not to print them ; we therefore give pseudonyms.
(L. 1210.)
Mr. " Lawson's " statement [Enclosed in a letter from Mr.
Tyrrell, dated November 21, 1916.^] is as follows :
Last Jaly, when my daughter and I were staying in
Somersetshire, I had a very vivid dream. I dreamed
that I was in a bedroom, and saw lying on the floor my
brother-in-law [Mr. R. Stephen (pseudonym)] ; he was
unconscious and looked perfectly ghastly. With some
difficulty I hfted him on to the bed ; as far as I could
see, he was not breathing and I could feel no motion of
his heart. I sprinkled some water on his face, but this
having no effect, I ran to the door and called for assist-
ance. No one came, so I ran out into the road where I
saw two men and a woman. I told them that some one
was very iU and asked them to go to the nearest pubhc-
house and bring some brandy ; both the men refused,
saying that the public-houses were closed, but the woman
seeing my distress said she would try and get some, and
I gave her Is. for the purpose. She, however, did not
come back again. On returning to the bedroom I found
my brother-in-law lying just as 1 had left him. I then
hunted over the house, but could find no one. I was
in a terrible state of anxiety and distress not knowing
what to do, and being pretty sure in my mind that he
was dead. I then, just as I was giving all up in despair,
awoke and rejoiced to know that it was only a dream.
Next monaing I told my daughter of my dream while
we were at breakfast, and she said, " How very curious.
1 Mr. Lawson cannot remember on what day he wrote this account.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Oases : Impression Externalised. 269
I, too, have had a very similar dream." These dreams
occurred on July 3rd [1916], and on the 5th, when we
returned home, I went to see my brother-in-law, and
found him looking very bad. He told me that on Monday
night, the 3rd July, he found himself lying on the floor
and feelmg very ill ; he was utterly unable to move or
to call for help. He thinks he must have been uncon-
scious for a long time. Early in the morning, he managed
to call the cook, and then remembers nothing more till
7 o'clock, when he sent for the doctor. He told me he
had never felt so ill before, and quite thought it was all
over for him ; he said he felt such a longmg for some
one to come while lying on the floor, and a feelmg of
great distress at not being able to call for aid.
I may state that before leaving home, we had seen him
in quite good health and had [heard] nothing of him while
we were m Somerset.
[C. W. Lawson.]
Mr. Lawson's daughter corroborates his statement, and adds
an account of her own dream, as foUows : This also was
enclosed in Mr. Tyrrell's letter of November 21, 1916.
On Monday night, July 3rd [1916], I had a most vivid
dream about my uncle [R. Stephen].
I dreamt that he came running up to me looking very
iU ; he handed me a book which he asked me to take
down in the town. I asked him what was the matter,
and he said : "I am very ill," and he then left the
room where I and two or three other peoj^le were. The
'
next thing I remember was that he was lymg unconscious,
and that none of us seemed able to go to his help. When
I came do^vn to breakfast the next morning, my father
told me he had had a dream about Uncle [Bob] being
ill ; after hearing this, I was so impressed that I wanted
to write and ask him how he was, as we were staying
away at the time ; but we did not write, as we were
afraid of upsetting him. We returned home on the
following Wednesday [July 5, 1916], and on Thursday
momuag my uncle came up stiU looking very ill and with
270 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
a nasty cut on his nose which he had got through his
fall on the same night that I had dreamt about him.
[E. Lawson.]
It has not been possible to obtain any statement from Mr.
Stephen, since he greatly dislikes making any reference to
his experience, but evidence as to the date and nature of his
illness has been obtained from his cook and from the doctor
who attended him.
[Statement by Mr. Stephen's cook concerning his illness, enclosed
in Mr. TyrreWs letter of November 21, 1916.]
At 1 a.m. on July 4th, 1916, I was aroused by hearing
a thud which seemed to come from Mr. [Stephen's] room.
I sat up and hstened, but hearing no further sound, I
went to sleep. At 3.45 I heard Mr. [Stephen] knocking
at my door and saying: "Come quickly, I am very ill."
I roused the housemaid and went to Mr. [Stephen's]
room ;
we found him lying on the floor unconscious and
looliing very ill. I sent the housemaid for some whisky,
and we managed to pour a httle into his mouth, and
then with difficulty lifted him into bed ; he was icy
cold, and I should think had been Ijnng for hours on the
floor ; he then revived a little, and said :
" I am feeling
very ill. I think I am dying." I wanted to send for
the doctor, but he would not let me. After a bit he
seemed to get better, so we went back to bed ; at 7
o'clock I went to his room and found him still very ill,
and he agreed to my sending for the doctor. On clearing
out his room the next day, I found clots of blood under
the washing-stand, so the thud I heard at 1 o'clock must
have been caused by his falliiig against the washing-stand,
as his nose and face were cut about.
(Signed) [F. Williams] (pseudonym).
The doctor's statement, verified by reference to his pro-
fessional diary, is as follows :
November 26, 1916.
I was called at 3.45 a.m. on July 4th, 1916, to see Mr.
[R. Stephen] at Cottage, ——. He had then re-
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : tmiyressio7i Externalised. 27l
covered consciousness (he had been unconscious for some
considerable time), and was sufferuag from the effects of
rather severe haemorrhage due to a womid caused by a
fall. [C. Barker] (pseudonym).
It will be observed that Dr. Barker differs from the cook
as to the hour at Avhich he was called in. He is more likely
to be accurate in such a matter, but the point is not im-
portant for our present enquiry. There seems httle doubt
that Mr. Stephen was first taken iU at about 1 a.m. on July
4, 1916, and that he remained wholly or partially unconscious
for some hours.
In the dreams the veridical points, namely, the IjHing on
the floor unconscious and the difficulty in getting help,
are wrapped up in imaginary incidents of a dramatic
character in which the dreamer plays a part.
In both these last two cases the two percipients were
in different rooms, and we do not know that their ex-
periences were simultaneous. They should be compared
with L. 1223, p. 167 above. In the very striking dream
case which follows (L. 1138, Journal, Vol. XI., p. 269), the
two dreamers were together and apparently dreamt simul-
taneously and almost exactly at the time of the accident.
The dreams were supplementary to each other rather than
identical. The case was sent to us by the kindness of
JMiss K. Raleigh, of Beechwood, Loudwater, Bucks.
L. 1138.)
The accomits were enclosed in a letter from Miss Raleigh,
dated Aprh. 28th, 1904, and were, she says, written by the
witnesses independently of each other. They gave their full
names and addresses, but wished mitiaLs only to be printed.
Miss M. L. B. wrote as follows :
In compliance to the request of Miss K. Raleigh I have
written thus :
On the evening of November 18th, 1903, I, M. L. B.,
retired about half-past nine o'clock and fell asleep. I
72 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
had a most peculiar vision or dream. I thought I was
wall<ing through streets in a strange place ; it was arti-
ficially lighted ; there Avere a number of people walking
to and fro on either side of the streets. I heard a
pecuhar noise, and turned partly round to see what was
the cause of it. A vehicle was coming rushing across
the top of the street ; I was a few paces down ; it looked
somethmg like a train, but not a train, it was running
on metals ;
something was coming down where I had
crossed ; there was an awful crash as if my (so-called)
train had rma upon something, and in a moment some-
thing heavy fell with a sickenitag thud on the pavement,
at my feet. I tried to cry out, but could not. In a
moment a crowd had collected, and several people picked
up the body which had fallen at my feet. I could see
it was a man. I could not see the face, only a large
gash on the baclv of the head, and near the lips, from
which the blood was flowing. As the drops fell they
splashed ui.to a puddle of blood on the groimd and
sprinkled on to me. Some one said, " Take him away."
I tried to cry out, "What shall I do?" and awoke
trembhng and perspiring, and crying bitterly.
I could not think where I was, [but] found I was in
bed, and had been dreaming, as I supposed. I lay quite
still for fear of disturbing my sister. In a short time my
sister ht a match and looked at her watch, and said,
"It is past eleven o'clock." I did not teU her of my
dream, as I did not wish her to worry. I thought it
strange for her to get a light and tell me the time. I
was fearfully worried for some days.
On the Monday morning followmg, I had another dream.
I dreamed my brother, H. B., (I had not seen since the
previous January, or even heard from him) was lyhig ill
in a strange room, and a man was putting him in an
ambulance. I thought he said, " Take my sister away,
I am not fit to be where she is." He looked so strange,
I awoke again in great agitation.
On the same evening a young friend. Miss P., came to
call, and my sister left us alone. After she had gone I
said, " R., have you heard if my nephew, or any one
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 273
belonging to me, has met with an accident, and they will
not tell me, as I have had such strange dreams and feel I
don't know what to do with myself. I feel haunted.
I have not felt hke this since just before Mother died."
I told my dreams and cried very much. She said, " Don't
fret," and assured me she had heard nothing concerning
any one belonging to me. I stiU felt miserable.
On the 26th of November we received the news that
our brother, H., was lying iU in F Infirmary, in a
precarious condition ; on the 27th we received the news
that he was dead, died the previous day after the letter
was posted to us. On the paper enclosed you will find
all the main information we received regarding our brother's
accident and death. If you compare the dates you will
find the accident happened at the time I was dreaming
about it. I had better state here I have never seen an
electric tramcar. What I have written here is perfectly
true.
I have not seen my brother either hving or dead since
a year last January, as I was much too iU to go to his
funeral.
The other sister, Miss H. M. B., wrote :
November 18th, 1903, I went to bed at 10 p.m. and
was going to sleep when a loud crashing soimd roused me,
and the voice of my brother followed saying, " Oh Duck,
I am done for." I covered my eyes and said, " Oh
H., is it your face that is hurt?" He said "No."
The horror of it was extremely depressing. It was about
11.15 and I could get no sleep through the night, it
worried me so. I had not seen my brother since the
previous January, and he had not written to me since.
Duck was his pet name for me.
Miss P., the friend referred to in the first account, wrote :
On the 23rd of November, 1903, I, R. P., went to
to see my friend Miss M. B. On the 23rd of November
my friend told me of her distressing dream that she had
dreamed on the 18th of November, 1903 ; it seemed as
274 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
if she could not forget it, she said that it seemed to
worry her so. The time that my friend told me about
her dream was between the hours of seven and eight
o'clock in the evening, and my friend said it was some
one had met with an accident, and the face was hurt,
but [she] could not see who it was, and my friend said
that it looked like a train, and yet not so, as it had no
engine on, and my friend has never seen an electric car
at all, and she could not forget her dream ; and then
on the 26th of November my friend had news about her
brother's accident. R. P.
Miss H. M. B. wrote later :
I did not mention my dream to any one until after
my brother's accident. . . . He died on November 26th,
1903, and then my sister told me about her dream, and I
said, how very strange [it was] we should each have
such a strange experience and at the same time ; I
then told her all about it.
It thus happens that no further corroboration was obtainable
of Miss H. M. B.'s experience ; but the statement in her
sister's accomit that she ht a match, looked at her watch,
and told her what time it was, affords some indirect evidence
ii:i confirmation of her own.
The following paragraph describing the accident is taken
from Lloyd's Weekly News, of November 29th, 1903.
ELECTBIC TRAMCAB FATALITY.
At F. yesterday Mr. D held an inquiry on H. B.,
47, a horse dealer, of . Mr. H. W. T , an official
at the Bank of England, hving at , stated that at a
quarter to eleven on the night of Wednesday week [Nov-
ember 18th] he was on an electric tramcar goitig westward.
They had just restarted from the Pack Horse when the
deceased drove out of the Devonshire Road into the High
Road right across the track of the car. He did not
appear to see the car. The car was pulled up at once,
but it caught the trap and overturned it, and deceased
was thrown out and struck his head on the kerb. It
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 275
was an unavoidable accident. It appeared that the
deceased was surgically attended at the Hospital,
and then removed home. On Monday [November 23rd]
he was admitted to the infirmary, where he died from the
effects of concussion and laceration of the brain and
fracture of the skull. The jury returned a verdict of
"Accidental death."
Miss Raleigh writes :
.{May 3rd, 1904.]
i To the best of my behef Miss H. M. B. and Miss M. B.
are truthful, accurate, and careful in their statements. I
have always found them so, and they have worked for
me for about two years. They related their dreams to
me about a fortnight after the death of their brother,
but in less detail than in their written account. The
main features in the written account correspond with
what they told me.
Miss M. B. told me that she has had various similar
experiences. Katherine Ann Raleigh.
It is an interesting question in a case like this whether
both percipients received simultaneously telepathic impacts
from the external agent, or whether one received it and
passed it on to the other, as presumably happens when
similar and simultaneous hallucinations or dreams occur
without any known corresponding external event to which
they can be referred. (For instances, see Chapter IV.
below.) A possible conjecture is that both things hajj-
pen and perhaps fortify each other. If in this particular
case, for instance, there had not been a three-cornered
telepathic connection between the two percipients and
the external agent, it is conceivable that the impressions
received might have been less vivid, and perhaps have
failed to reach the normal consciousness through the
dreams. This is in effect the hypothesis proposed by
Gurney in relation to veridical collective hallucinations
—
see Phayitasms of the Living, Chap. XVIII., § 7. But for
the theory of collective percipience—a most important
subject—I may refer the reader to that chapter, and to
276 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Proceedings, Vol. X., Chap. XV., pp. 319-326 ; also to
Myers' Human Personality, especially section 648, etc.
The last case has taken us from cases of illness of the
agent to one of sudden accident. The next (L. 1221,
Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 7) is a simple case of a mother
having an auditory hallucination of her son calling at the
time he received a severe injury. We received it through
Mr. F. C. Constable of Wick Court, near Bristol, a Mem-
ber of the Society. He wrote :
(L. 1221.)
The two statements and letter given below speak for
themselves. Dr. Beavis, Mrs. S. Ashley and Miss Dodd,
—
a daughter of the late Major Dodd,—-are all well known
to me personally. Miss Dodd's statement was sent me
by post. At the time of the accident she was in residence
with Mrs. S. Ashley. Mrs. S. Ashley's statement was
made by her in my absence. Her endorsement on Miss
Dodd's letter was made in my presence.
23r^ Oct. 1918.
^- Nonstable.
Statement of Miss Dodd.
Parsonage House,
LiDDINGTON, NR. SwiNDON, Oct. YltTl.
Dear 1Mb. Constable,—In reply to your note this is as
nearly as I remember what ^aassed between Mrs. Ashley
and myself on the day Arthur met with his accident. I
missed him at his usual dinner hour, but his mother then
told me that he did not always come home at that time.
After dimier I retired as usual to my httle sitting-room
and Mrs. Ashley to her duties at the back of the house.
In about an hour's time I was surprised to hear her call
out, " Is that you Arty ?
" and getting no reply she
came into my room saying " Have you seen anything of
Ai-thur ? " I said "No, I have not." She then seemed
very smprised, saying, "Well, I heard him caU out 'Ma'
(a pet name for Iiis mother) as plainly as I have ever
heard him, and if that was not his voice I have never
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 277
heard it." I remarked that it was very curious, and she
then added, " I hope there's nothing the matter with
him." Seeitig that she was much agitated I tried to
soothe her and said, " Oh ! he will be home all right
presently." This was all we said to each other and Mrs.
Ashley then went away, but soon after I heard a knock
at the door and some one said, " No answer," then I
heard Mrs. Ashley cry out and on going to her to see
what had happened she put a letter in my hand Avhich
she had just received from the works telling her of her
son's accident. I think this is all you will want to Imow,
and hope I have made it plain enough. I may add
that I have been much impressed by such a clear pre-
monition ^ of the sad event. C. A. Dodd.
Endorsement on the above by Mrs. Ashley.
I have read this letter and all therein stated is correct.
I never heard my son's voice clearer in my life.
M. Ashley.
Croft Cottage, Wick,
Bristol, Oct. 22nd., 1918.
Mrs. Ashley's own Statement.
At the hour of the accident I distinctly heard the boy
call me. I said " Arthur, is that you '? " Having no
answer I said, " Is that Arthur, Miss Dodd ?
" She said,
" What, is Arthur come home ?
" I said, " I distinctly
heard him call me. I do hope nothing has happened
to him." She said, " I hope not."
On Friday afternoon, Sept. 6th, at 3.30, I was in the
back kitchen wiping my hands. Both back and front
•
doors were open ; it was about 3.30 the accident happened,
and the distance is about 1 mile from the house.
M. Ashley.
Croft Cottage, Wick,
Bristol, Oct. nth, 1918.
1 Mr. Constable informs us, in reply to enquiries, that he has "not
the slightest doubt [Miss Dodd] used the term '
premonition '
merely
for '
abnormal occurrence.' "—that is not as implying that Mrs. Ashley's
experience preceded the accident.
278 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part II
Statement by Dr. Beavis, Manager of the works where the
accident occurred.
Wick, neab Bristol, Oct. 2Zrd, 1918.
The accident happened at about 4 p.m. on Sept. 6th.
I my.self took the lad, whose right arm was crushed, to
the hospital at Cosham, and he remained conscious from
the time of the accident up to the time of my handing
him over to the hospital authorities.
Charles Beavis.
The following case (L. 1193, Journal, Vol. XV., p. 342)
connected with the loss of the Titanic was sent to us by
Miss Alice L. Head, an Associate of the Society, who
requested that, in printing it, the names and addresses
of the persons concerned, except her own, should be
omitted. Pseudonyms have therefore been substituted.
The experience seems to have been a " vision " somewhat
resembling that of Miss Paterson (L. 1207, see above,
p. 243). Miss Head wrote :
(L. 1193.)
26, Leinster Square,
Bayswater, W., J^dy 4, 1912.
I have lately heard of a well authenticated case of
telepathy.
A friend who is at present hving with us, Miss Margaret
Simpson, lost her brother in the wreck of the Titanic.
This brother had had for some time past a post on
board one of the other vessels of the White Star line,
but he had been compelled to resign it on accoimt of
iUness.
Just before the Titanic sailed lie had the offer of a
similar post on board the fated ship, which he accepted
at the last moment.
The fact of his having done so was known to Miss
Margaret Simpson, but not to a married sister, Mrs.
Henderson, who lives in Vancouver.
On April 19 [1912] Mrs, Henderson wrote m, a letter to
&XXXVI.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 279
Miss Emma Simpson (another sister living at Clifton) the
following account
:
" I was busy in the afternoon after lunch on Tuesday,
April 16, and I saw Bessie and Nina crying and clinging
to one another. I seemed to be in a kind of dream
and yet I was wide awake and had not even been thinking
of them."
Bessie and Nina are the wife and child of Mr. Simpson
who was drowned.
In reply to questions by Miss Margaret Simpson, Mrs.
Henderson wrote again on Jime 13 :
" You asked me about seeing Bessie and Nina ;
I was
alone in the house, and they seemed to appear to me in
a sort of mist ; I could not see their faces. Had I been
thinking of them at the time, I could understand it, but
I was busy after lunch.
" I did not know anythiiig about Wilhe's ilhiess then,
or that he was on the Titanic, but I had no doubt
that it was Bessie and Nina that I saw. I told Cissy
and Daisy about it that evening (April 16th, 1912)."
I have myself seen the letters from which these extracts
are copied.
The news of the wreck, which took place on [the night
of Ajsril 14-15, 1912], was known in England on Tuesday
16th, and also in Vancouver. Alice L. Head.
To this account the signature of Miss Margaret Simpson
was added in corroboration.
From the account given it seems probable that at the
time of her vision Mrs. Henderson had just heard of the
vi^reok of the Titanic, as the news of it reached Vancouver
that day. But she did not know her brother was on
board, and therefore had no reason to associate his wife
and daughter wdth the loss.
There is a curious case (L. 989, Journal, Vol. VII.,
p. 108) in which, apparently between sleeping and waking,
Mr. Shrubsole in England sees his son twice over in
positions more or less veridical at the actual time (as he
s
280 , / Mrs. Henry Siclgivich. [part
believed) when the son met with a serious accident on
board ship in the Pacific Ocean. I do not quote it
because the evidence for the time coincidence is defective.
It was some weeks before news was received of the
accident, and no note of the date of the apparition or
dream had been made. Moreover, the fullest account of
the experience (we have two) was not written within our
limit of five years. The earlier account seems to have
been written about seven months after the event.
The remaining experiences corresponding to accidents
happening to the agent are undoubtedly dreams. The
first I will quote (L. 992, Journal, Vol. VII., p. 125)
occurred on the night after the accident, and is a good
example of dream dramatisation, with the dreamer playing
an important part. There is too much correspondence
with fact to be easily attributed to chaiice, but, as will
be seen, the accident was in the dream connected with
the wrong sister, and the dream representation of it was
otherwise incorrect.
(L. 992.)
Miss C. Clarkson writes : .
t
Alverthobpe Hall, Wakefield, May 8th, 1894.
On Sunday, May 5th, 1894, ^ my sister and I were
boating on the river Derwent, in Yorkshire (near Kirkham
Abbey) with a party of friends in a small steam launch.
Between three and four o'clock in the afternoon, we had
all landed to gather cowsHps in the fields, and on returning
to the boat, for some reason the usual plank for landing
was not in position, and we jumped in turn from the
bank on to the flat end of the boat. I was the last,
and in jumping missed my footing and slipped into the
water, catching the edge of the boat however with my
hands as I went, and supporting myself—so that I was
not totally immersed, though the water was a good depth
where we were. Two of the gentlemen rushed forward
and pulled me out by my arms. I said as I was being
^ The first Sunday in May 1894 was really the 6th,
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 281
hauled up, "It is no use puUing so hard, you hurt me."
One of them said " We must puU, if we are to get you
out." I was got on to the boat in a very short time,
and was never in any danger.
We returned to our own home the next day, and never
mentioned in the sUghtest way the Little accident to
any one, lest my father, who is a very old man, should
be alarmed or worried at what had happened. Shortly
after we returned, my step-mother said to my sister,
" Have you had an accident on the river ?
" " I ?
No," said my sister. "'Because," continued my step-
mother, " I had a very distressing dream about you last
night—I dreamt you feU into the river, and I was in
the boat and got hold of your hair, and tried to puU
you out. You said, '
Don't puU so hard, you hurt me.'
I said, '
You had better be hurt than drowned.'
"
Then, and not tUl then, did we tell her that one of us
reaUy had had an accident precisely as she had dreamed,
but that her dream had made a mistake in the identity
of the sisters.
According to my step-mother's accoimt, my father also
seemed to have been a httle anxious and uneasy in 'his
sleep that night, and in the morning rather pointedly
'
asked her if she had dreamt anything, but said nothing
further ; and nothiiig was afterwards said to him to make
him aware of what had happened. My step-mother's
dream was during the night after the accident occurred.
Christabel Clarkson.
Miss Clarkson adds :
I have asked Mrs. Clarkson if she ever had any other
dreams of the kind, but she says not.
She enclosed the following accounts from Mrs. Clarkson and
her sister.
May Uth, 1894.
On Sunday night, May 6th, 1894, [I had] a dream
which appeared remarkable ; in effect, was this,—that
Louisa Clarkson was in the water apparently drowned,
and I said, " Take care, or you wiU go," and pulled her
282 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
in by her hair. Her answer was, " Do not pull so hard,
you hurt me." I still pulled, saying, "You had better
be hurt than dro\\iied." The following day, on her
return home, I enquired of her if she had an accident
during her visit. She said, " WeU, something hke one ;
my sister got into the water and used just the same
words, 'Don't pull so hard, you hurt me.'" Her answer
to me was, "Well, it is strange."
Annie Pilkington Clarkson.
P.S. —I enquired of Louisa before heariiig a word of the
accident.
May Uth, 1894.
Very soon after my sister and I returned from our
river exijedition on the 7th of May, my step-mother
came to me and said, " Have you had any accident
while you have been away V I replied, " I ? No."
She then said, " Because I had such a strange dream
about you last night," relating the circumstances, and
\ repeatmg the very words my sister had used and those
used to her by the gentleman who got her out of the
water. I then said it was very strange, because my
y sister had had exactly such an accident as she had dreamt.
No one except those who had been with us in the boat
knew a word of the accident. Louisa Clarkson.
The next case (L. 1165, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 136) was
sent ])y Mr. Marshall Wait of Chicago, an Associate of the
American Branch, who collected the evidence. He was
acquainted with the agent, Dr. W. G. Porter, and two of
the witnesses, Mr. and Mrs. Millner.
(L. 1165.)
He wrote on January 28, 1901 :
Mr. Millner told me of the dreams very soon after
their occurrence, and intended to procure the statements
for me at once, but Mrs. Porter's husband died very
suddenly a short time after, and as she was already in a
nervous condition from recent ilhiess, Mr. Millner was
unwilling to trouble her about the matter until recently.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 283
Mrs. Porter writes :
No. 299, Ceylon Ave., Chicago, Jany. 19, 1901.
On the evening of October 7, 1899, my daughter, Mi's.
Millner, and her husband went down town to see the
bicycle parade, leaving me at home with the children.
WhUe they were gone I dreamed a very distressing dream
about my son Guy [Dr. W. G. Porter] (who was hving
in Kalamazoo), in which I saw him hurt in some way.
When I woke the details of the dream were indistinct
in my memory, but the painful impression was very
strong, although I am not a behever in dreams, and am
accustomed to pay no attention to them.
When Mr. and Mrs. MiUner returned about 11 o'clock,
I mentioned to Mrs. Millner that I had had " such a
miserable dream about Guy," teUing her the particulars
as far as I remembered them. A few nights after I
again dreamed of my son, and this time I distinctly saw
him drawn out of a crowd of people and badly cut.
This dream I also told to Mrs. Millner before its veri-
fication. The next morning I received a letter from my
son, by which I learned that he had come to Chicago
on the day of the bicycle parade and had met with a
painful accident, being badly cut about the head ; that
he had gone to the house of a physician of his acquaint-
ance, where his wounds were dressed, and that as his
head was covered with bandages, he had returned to
Kalamazoo without coming to see me, fearing to shock
me, as I had recently been in poor health.
Mrs. MiUner signs this with me in attestation of the
fact that I told her of my dreams before their verification.
k. b. pobtek.
•
Myra B. Millnek.
Mr. Marshall Wait wi'ote on Feb. 20, 1901.
The letters which passed between Dr. Porter and his
mother have been destroyed, but I have succeeded in
establishing a little closer time relation between the accident
and the first dream. IVIrs. Porter authorises me to say
284 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
that she remembers that Mr. and Mrs. IMilkier came
home that evenmg a httle after eleven, and that she
had been in bed but a short time when they came, so
that the dream occurred between ten and eleven o'clock,
and certainly not before ten. You will see by the en-
closed letter of Dr. Porter that he fixes the accident at
very near ten o'clock. ... : •
>
Marshall Wait.
I)r. Porter's statement was as follows :
2057, Wilcox Ave., Chicago, III., Feb. 6th, 1901.
To whom it may concern :
On October 7th, 1899, I left Kalamazoo, Michigan,
about 4.30 p.m. over the Michigan Central R. R., arriving
in Chicago, 111., at 8 o'clock. I took a hack from the
depot, intending to drive to the Briggs Hotel. Our
progress was stopped near State and Madison Streets,
by the crowd attending the bicycle parade of the Street
Carnival then m progress. Owing to the intense jam I
was forced to remain at the comer of State and Madison
Streets until after the parade had passed. When the
crowd broke up there was a severe crush, during which
I lost my footing and was trampled, sustaining severe
injuries about the head. I wandered about the city in a
dazed condition a considerable portion of the night, and
at five o'clock the following morning found myself on the
north side, several miles from where I was hurt. I
inquired for and was directed to the residence of Dr.
Nicholas Senn, the surgeon, who sent me to St. Joseph's
Hospital, where my wounds were dressed at 9 o'clock.
I passed the next day at a hotel (the Briggs House)
and did not communicate with my relatives, fearing lest
my bad appearance and bandaged head might prove a
shock to my mother, who was in a very low physical
condition at the time. I returned to Kalamazoo on the
following afternoon, and was in bed about two weeks.
On my partial recovery I wrote my mother of the accident
in response to a letter from her, in which she stated that
she had a dream on the night of the 7th of October,
Lxxxvi.] Sfontaneo^is Cases : Impression Externalised. 285
to the effect that I was hurt and in trouble. This
letter to my mother was the first actual knowledge she
had either of my trip to Chicago or my injury. I also
imderstand from her that she had another dream the
night before she received my letter, m which she saw me
drawn from a crowd womided and bleed mg.
My injuries consisted of severe cuts and bruises on the
face and neck, which bled freely. I sustained a shght
concussion of the brain, which was overcome by two
weeks of quiet.
My trip to Chicago was made suddenly and without
notification to any of my relatives or friends. My mother's
first dream coincided with the date on which I was hurt,
and her second dream coincided with the day on which
my letter to her was mailed. She received it, I beheve,
the following day. Wm. G. Porter, M.D.
Mr. Wait also obtained corroboration from Mr. Millner as
follows :
Chicago, III.
I heard of both of Mrs. Porter's dreams of her son's
accident before their verification from my wife, but not
from Mrs. Porter herself.
Le Roy Millner.
Dr. Porter wrote to Mr. Wait on Feb. 19, 1901.
Dear Sir,—Answering your letter of yesterday as to
time of the accident, it is a fact that the end of the
parade had passed me by 10 o'clock. The crowd im-
mediately broke up, and it was then I was hurt. Of
course, I did not pay any attention to details at the
time, but it is safe to assert that the accident to me
occurred within a few minutes of 10 p.m.—Yours resjoect-
fully, W. G. Porter.
Three other cases of dreams corresponding with accidents
I will describe briefly.
In the first (L. 1113, Journal, Vol. IX., p. 104) a child,
Lily Spruit, dreamt of the sinking of the Atacama, of
286 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
which her father was eaptam, and of his being saved, he
and the crew having taken to the boats. The coincidence
was striking, the ship having gone down that night, but
the value of the evidence is weakened by the fact, which
came out in a trial later, that the ship was known to be
unseaworthy by the owners and by the captain (who had
been promised a bonus on his salary), and therefore pos-
sibly by his family. The dream was told to the child's
mother immechately after its occurrence, but was not
recorded till a week later, after Captain Spruit had
returned home.
The second case (L. 1118, Journal, Vol. IX., p. 151)
comes from Professor Alexander of Rio de Janeiro. Dona
Marie do Carmo Blum had a confused dream on the
night (as she beheves) of April 27, 1899, that Dr. Garnier,
who was her medical attendant when she lived at a dis-
tant town, had fallen in alighting from a carriage and
been much hurt. This dream, which disturbed her a
good deal, she related to her husband, but it was not
recorded till about six weeks later, when it had been
learnt that Dr. Garnier had had such an accident on
April 27 in jumping from his carriage to try to stop some
runaway horses, and had suffered from concussion of the
brain. There was some doubt whether the date of the
dream was remembered independently.
In the third case (L. 1178, Journal, Vol. XIV., p. 155)
the dream coincided not with an accident, but with a
friend's great anxiety lest there had been one. Miss G.
dreamt of her friend Mrs. L. coming to her in motor
costume and in great distress, and then, confusedly, of
her being distressed because her husband had gone away.
Mr. L. and two friends had gone out motoring that
evening ;
the motor had broken down a long way from
home ;
it was impossible to communicate with Mrs. L.,
and they did not get home till two o'clock in the morning.
Mrs. L. had been in great distress and anxiety, and had
wished for Miss G. to help her. The record is dated
about a year after the event. It is doubtful whether
this case is best classed here or with those to which
I now pass.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : tm'pression Externalised. 28 "7
§ 3. Coincidence tvith ideas or wishes connected by the
agent with the j^&^cipi^nt.
In this section are put together hallucinations and
dramatic dreams which seem to be causally connected
with a mental condition or idea in the agent, associated
by the latter with the percipient—either a desire for the
percipient's presence or information to be conveyed to
him. It must be admitted, however, that in some of
the cases to be quoted the agent's part is somewhat
conjectural.
One of the most striking instances of this kind in the
coUection is L. 1227 {Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 83). It
appeared in the Westminster Cathedral Chronicle for March
1919, and we are indebted to the Editor for permission to
print it. The names and addresses of all those concerned
have been given to us, but are withheld by request. The
case may be best classed as one of telepathic transference
to the percipient of the agent's great desire that he should
visit her. The percipient's experience took the form that
an actual sick call might have done, and was taken by
him at the time to be a waking experience. But whether
it really was so is doubtful. It was on the Ime between
sleeping and waking, and it is impossible to say whether it
was a vivid dream that woke the percipient or whether
he woke to see and hear an apparition. It is perhaps
most probable that it was both, and that the dream
which woke him persisted for some seconds as a waking
haUucination.
The report in the Westminster Cathedral Chronicle,
slightly abbreviated, ran as follows :
(L. 1227.)
One afternoon a short time back Fr. Brompton (to give
the priest a fictitious name) was requested to visit a lady
who was ill. When he arrived at her house he met
the doctor, who very urgently requested him not to ad-
minister the last rites at that particular moment, but to
be satisfied with giving the patient a few cheering words.
He very reluctantly consented, but, when he saw the
288 Mrs. Henry Sidgioich. [part
lady, greatly regretted his promise and the fact that the
doctor should have made such a request, as he feared
that the patient was very much worse than he had been
made to miderstand. However, his promise had been
given ; so he arranged that he would come again in the
morning and admmister the Last Sacraments. Before he
left the house, however, he gave the nurse his telephone
number and asked her to telephone should the patient
become suddenly worse before the morning.
As usual, that night the telephone was switched on to
one of the Fathers' rooms, as is the custom at the
Oratory, with a view to any possible sick-calls. Fr.
Brompton retired to bed at his usual hour after reciting
his rosary, in which he did not forget to include his
patient of the afternoon. In the early morning he was
startled out of a deep sleep by his bedroom door opening,
and saw, by the hght of the moon through his open,
xmcovered window, a medium-sized, dark-robed figure
standing by it, and understood the person to say some-
thing about a sick-call.
" For heaven's sake, man," he hastily answered, sitting
up m bed and rubbing his eyes, not quite sure if it was
the Father on duty, or the lodge porter, " speak clearly."
" Be quick !
" came the reply in clearer tones. " There
is no time to lose. There is a telephone message."
"Right—right you are !
" at once answered Fr. Brompton.
The word " telephone " brought back in a moment to his
mind the sick-caU of the previous afternoon, and it did
not therefore occur to him to ask for the address. He
sprang out of bed—the door closed as he did so. Turning
on the hght, he observed that it was just on the quarter
to four. He quickly dressed, and went to the chapel for
the Holy Oils and the Blessed Sacrament, remarking, by
the way, on the forgetfuhaess of his caller to turn on the
hght for him. Making his way swiftly across the space
between the house and the gates that shut it off from the
main road, he found them locked as they should be,
and had to knock up the lodge porter to let him out.
Within a minute or two he was well on his way to the
house he had visited the previous afternoon, and as he
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 289
waited after his first ring at the bell and congratulated
himself on his smart arrival, he looked at his watch and
saw that it still wanted five minixtes to four. He rang
again—-and again. ... A clock in the vicinity chimed
the hour. He rang and knocked. " Strange that there
is no one ready to answer the door after telephoning,"
he thought. In the stillness of the moonhght night he
thought he was makhig enough noise to wake the dead.
The dead ! Could the worst have happened ? His regret
of yesterday came upon him with sudden force, so that
he became alarmed. He banged at the door. The
electric Ught was on in the hall and on the stairs, as he
could see. He knew that there were only six people m
the house—the sick lady in one room, her husband, given
up as hopeless, in another, two day nurses (now evidently
in a sound sleep), and the two night nurses in attendance
on the patients. The children had all safely recovered,
from influenza and had been taken elsewhere. ... A
clock chimed the quarter past. At last, to the priest's
great reUef, the door opened.
" Come in, doctor," said a nurse ; I fear you have
been kept waiting."
" I am not the doctor ; I'm a priest."
" Oh, I suppose they telephoned for you ? That's bad
news. WiU you go up ?
"
Fr. Brompton made his way up to the sick-room, and
as he quietly entered he saw the nurse kneeling by the
bedside and noticed that she was very startled as he
entered. He also heard the sick person saying :
" I do
wish Fr. Brompton would come." Afterwards he learned
that for the space of about half an hour before his arrival
the lady had been expressing a wish to see him. The
nurse, not bemg a Cathohc, and not reahsing that a
priest would come outside the ordinary hours, suggested
that she should recite some prayers from a Cathohc
prayer-book. Fr. Brompton arrived while she was doing
this. He at once gave the lady the Last Sacraments,
much to her rehef and peace of mmd. Within an hour
or two she became imconscioiis. After reciting the prayers
for the dying, the priest prepared to leave the house.
290 Mrs. Henry Sklgivicic. [par!
"Thank you so niucli for coming so opportunely," said
the nurse, "but you quite startled me."
" On the contrary, thanks are due to you for tele-i
phoning."
" Oh, but I dichi't !
"
" Well, someone did. I expect it was Mrs. 's
sister."
As the nurses were not Cathohcs, the priest took it
that one of the lady's relations had telephoned in her
anxiety about her sister. Fr. Brompton heard that she
died a few hours later. She became a Cathohc at the
age of eighteen, and had been an exceUent one up to her
pious death at the age of thirty-two.
In the evening of the same day, Fr. Brompton had
occasion to speak to the Father whose duty it had been
to answer the telephone, and in the course of conversation
said :
"By the way, I'm sorry I spoke to you so sharply last
night."
" Why, when do you mean ?
"
" When you came to call me."
" But / never called you. last night !
"
"My dear Father, you came to my room at a quarter
to four this morning and told me there was a telephone
sick-call."
"I never left my room last night. I had a sleepless
night and happened to note that I was awake at that
very time, as I had my light on. And what is more,
there was no telephone call last night !
"
Li the above story it should bo borne in mind that Fr.
Brompton had had no reason, up to the moment he spoke to
the Father responsible for the night telephone, to suppose
that anything unusual had happened. He had had a sick-call
m the afternoon and would return the following morning in the
ordinary way. He mentioned the sick person in his prayers
|
as was his wont in such cases. He made no special prepara-
tions before gomg to bed. He was awakened by his door
being suddenly opened. He took the caller to be the Father i
on duty, and were it not that he knew it could not have been
Lxxxvi,] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 291
the lodge porter, would not have spoken to the Father at all.
It was only because he considered he had sjjoken roughly
to him when, as he presumed, he had called him, that he
referred to the matter at all when speaking to him on other
J business. On enquiry at the telephone exchange it was
'stated that there was no record of any call for the Oratory
jf
'on the night in question.
,f[
In reply to our request Father Brompton and Father X.
ij
\
(the priest in charge of the telephone) kindly corroborated
g
! the above report thus :
fj
1. The above narrative correctly states my being called
by Father [X.] in the early morning of November 22nd,
1918. [Father Brompton.]
2. I neither had a telephone call, nor did I visit Father
[Brom]3ton's] room m the early mommg of November
22nd, 1918. [Father X.]
We were also able to get ui touch with the nurse who
was on duty in the sick woman's room on the night in
question, and obtamed from her the following corroborative
statement
:
I did not telephone or send for Father [Brompton],
,.,,.,„-.. . .
M. A. W.
In reply to a further question concerning the nature of his
experience Father Brompton wrote :
March 2\st, 1919.
You ask me whether the mamaer of my being called
was a unique experience. There was nothing unique to
me in the manner of the call, it came hke dozens of
other sick-calls ; bat what was, and is a unique experience
to me is the denial of the person who called me.
[Father Brompton.]
It is of some interest in connexion with this case that
about a fortnight after the death of the agent she pur-
ported to communicate through Mrs. Leonard, the sitter
being a lady who was not acquainted with her and did
not know of her death. Particulars are given in the
Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 226.
292 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
There are two cases in which the agent's desire to call
the percipient is translated into an aixditory hallucination.
The first (L. 1143, Journal, Vol. XII., p. "l4) came from
an Associate of the Society, Mr. Clissold, and was sent to
us, enclosed in a letter dated September 20, 1904, by the
late Colonel Taylor, then a Member of the S.P.R. Council,
to whom Mr. Clissold and his daughter had been known
for some years.
(L. 1143.)
Mr. Chssold writes :
Ravensworth, Cheltenham,
September I4th, 1904.
On Saturday, September 10th, I was in my daughter's
garden pruning some trees. I had just completed my
work about 7 p.m. when I distinctly heard my daughter's
voice calling me, "
when are you coming down ?
"
using a familiar name by which no one but she addresses
me. I looked aU romid me and could see no one, so I
called to her several times, but receiving no answer
supposed that she had called me and then gone home.
However, when I got to the bottom of the garder, a
distance of about 40 yards from where I was pruning, I
found her at work among her flowers, and on asking her
why she had called me, she said, " I never caUed you at
all, but I was thinking of you very much a short time
ago and thought I must caU you, but I did not." It is
perfectly certain that I heard her voice distinctly, and it
is equally certain that my daughter did not call me. I
write this simple account as it may be possible that other
people may have met with occurrences of a similar nature.
Is it within the bounds of probabihty that thought can,
under certain conditions, be transferred into audible sound 1
E. M. Clissold.
Mr. Chssold's daughter writes :
Rock House, Fownhope, Hereeord.
On Saturday, September 10th, I was tying up chry-
santhemums near our house and father was pruning trees
about 40 yards from where I was working, but out of
Lxxxvi.] Sfontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 293
sight. I kept on thinking I would call him to come
down, as he had not been weU in the morning, and I
was afraid he would be over tired, but I knew he hated to
be worried. For about half an hour I thought of nothing
else but whether I should call him or not, and suddenly
I saw him just above me, and he said, " Why did you
call me ?
" I said, " I did not call you, but for some
time I have been thinking of doing so." If I had called
him, I should not have made use of the famihar name
he said I used, as I knew the gardener was working
close by. My husband went up since, and stood hstening
at the exact spot where my father stood. I called as
loud as I could to him from the spot where I was working
when my father heard me caU him, and he could only
hear me faintly ; he was expecting it and hstening for
the call. My father was prmiing at the time and not
expecting to be called, and he is also a little deaf. I
enclose a section of the ground showing our positions and
the intervening features of the ground. Alice Pubdon.
The section referred to shows a number of terraces, rising
one above another, terminated by walls covered with ivy,
between Mr. CUssold and his daughter. Mr. CUssold was at
the far end of the highest terrace, and his daughter on the
lowest, at a level of 38 feet below where he was standing,
and at a distance of 124 feet measured horizontally from a
pomt 38 feet vertically below him. Supposing, therefore, that
she had miconsciously uttered her thought aloud, it seems
quite impossible that he should have heard it.
.
The second case of the kind (L. 1177, Journal, Vol. XIV.,
p. 143) also came from an Associate, now a Corresponding
Member, of the Society, Mr. Severin Lauritzen.
(L. 1177.)
He writes :
HoLTE, Denmark, May 5, 1909.
I live in a viUa in the country, and in a neighbouring
villa hves my married daughter, who is named Evelyn.
There is only a distance of 33 steps, or say some 22
294 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
yards, in a straight line, between the houses. I have a
telephone from a central station in my house, and also
a short private telephone that connects the two houses. I
commence writing this 1.20 p.m., May 5th. The same
day about 1 o'clock my son-iii-law, K., telephoned from
his place of business in the town to my house to say
that he wanted to speak with Evelyn. It was my wife
who answered the telephone when K. called, and when
she heard what he wanted she immediately pressed the
button of the private telephone to summon E. Just
before this moment E. heard her mother's very clear
and distinct voice call " Evelyn, Evelyn." She arose
from her writing desk where she sat absorbed in house-
hold accounts, opened the door to the hall in her
house, and asked Miss N., who was working there,
"Did mother caU ?
" "No," said Miss N., "Nobody
called." E. said: "Yes, she did call." Then she turned
to go back to an open window in the room where she
had been writing, to see if her mother was outside
there ; but she did not reach the window before she
heard the private telephone bell sounding, so she turned
again and went straight to my house without answering
the call per telephone. Passing the telephone and Miss N.,
she said, " There, you see, mother called." Arrived at
my house, she found that her husband wanted to speak
with her. Just as she had finished her conversation with
her husband I came out from an adjacent room to
speak with her, but she interrupted me and said, " Now
we have a clear case of telepathy."
The account is countersigned by Mr. Lauritzen's wife
and daughter, and Miss N. Mr. Lauritzen proceeds to give
at some length the reasons, including experiments, for
certainty that his daughter could not have heard her
name called even if her mother had called her, which she
did not, and that the call she heard preceded the tele-
phone bell. This evidence, important though it is, I
omit for the sake of shortness.
There is another case resembling these, though the
sound heard was not vocal but a bell, and the agent's
LxxxvT.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 295
desire was not directed to any particular percipient
(L. 993, Journal, Vol. VII., p. 162). A lady fainting in
I her bedroom when staying with friends had a strong
desire to ring for assistance, but was unable to do so.
Nevertheless the bell was heard and assistance came.
She cannot have unknowingly rung, for there was, it
appeared, no beU pull in her room. I only describe the
case thus briefly because unfortunately the accounts we
I
have from agent and percipient were not written till four
years after the event, and some discrepancies between them
in details show that there is haziness of memory somewhere.
There are two cases in which the apparent agent is
approaching the percipient who has an experience—in one
case an auditory hallucination and in the other a dream
—
suggesting the agent's approach.
The first (L. 1222, Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 30) we heard
of from Miss E. Arkwright, in whose family the percipient,
Mr. Saunders, had been gardener. In reply to questions
a substantially similar account was afterwards sent by
]VIr. Saunders himself, enclosed with a corroborative
account by his granddaughter, Maud, dated October 14,
1918. Mr. Saunders's account is as follows :
(L. 1222.)
" On the 8th of January [1918] about 7 a.m. I heard
four words distinctly as I lay in bed :
'
Tom's coming
to-day.' I asked Maud and her mother if either had
been in the room. They answered in the negative. I
told them what I had heard. They thought I must have
been dreaming. There it ended till the miexpected Tom
turned up between 9 and 10 a.m. on the same day.
My health was good at the time, before and after.
Age 84. James Satjndeks."
Mr. Saxmders's grandson Tom was serving with the army in
France and obtained leave quite unexpectedly. No evidence
from him as to his feelings at the time has been obtained.
The second case (L. 1225, Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 56)
was sent by the dreamer, IMrs. Hanson, an Associate of
296 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. '
[part
the Society. She dreamt the dream at least twice in the
same night, which is an unusual experience. She writes :
(L. 1225.) -
"
Pleasaunce Cottage, Dorman's Park,
Nr. East Grinstead, January 7, 1919.
Since the summer of 1915 I have, first personally and
later through the Prisoners of War Care Committee, been
sending regular parcels to Lance-Corporal W. D .,
Pvoyal Scots Fusihers Regiment, prisoner first at Doberitz
and later at Guben, Brandenburg.
I do not laiow the man or his family personaUy, and
heard of him through a friend who was interesting herself
in the British Prisoners. Apart from occasional postcards
thanking me for the parcels, and two photographs and a
group taken at the Prison, I have had no other correspond-
ence with the man. Since the Armistice I have naturally
awaited with interest any news that I might receive from
him. I was away for Xmas, and as I had heard nothing
from him I began to wonder ii he was all right, and
determined on my return to write to his wife and ask her
if she had received any news.
I had a good deal of correspondence to get through,
and put off writing until Sunday, Jan. 5th. The i^revious
night (Sat. Jan. 4th) I had a very vivid dream twice
repeated, in fact I could be almost sure it came three
times, but of twice I am certain. Li the dream I was
with my husband in some strange place talking to
L.-C. D . We shook hands with him, and he said
he was safe home. He was dressed in a dark uniform
similar to that of one of the photographs he sent me.
In the morning (Jan. 5th) when I woke up I told my
husband, and also the maid when she came to wake us.
I enclose both their statements to this effect. The im-
pression left by the dream was so vivid that I did not
write to Mrs. D ,
thinking I would wait a day or two
longer in case I might hear of her husband's arrival.
This morning (Jan. 7th) I received a p.c. which I also
enclose, dated by postmark Jan. 5th, from L./C. D
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 297
saying he had just arrived at Leith. Therefore when I
was dreaming that he was safely home he must have
nearly reached Leith. . . .
I am not in the habit of dreaming much, and seldom
remember my dreams, and only once before, a good many
years ago, have I ever had anything of interest in this
way. M. R. Hanson.
Corroborative statements were enclosed from Mrs. Han-
son's husband and from her maid. These are printed in
the Journal.
The postcard to which Mrs. Hanson refers h\ her statement
has an Edinburgh postmark, dated 4 p.m., January 5, 1919.
It reads :
T have just landed at Leith, and am going on to
Prisoners of War Reception Camp,
South Camp,
Ripon.
[Signed] L./C. W. D.
R.S.F.
It appears, therefore, as IVIrs. Hanson says, that at the
time of her dream, the night of January 4-5, 1919, Lance-
Corporal D—— was approaching Leith. The intention of
sending a postcard to Mrs. Hanson may well have been
in his mind at the time, since he despatched it im-
mediately on his arrival. It may even have been already
written. And similarly Tom Saunders may well have
been thinking of his grandfather about the time of the
latter's hallucination, since he was within about two hours
of reaching his home. But in neither case have we direct
evidence on the matter.
In the next case (L. 1135, Journal, Vol. XL, p. 177) the
percipient dreamt what the agent had in mind and was
about to communicate to her, only in the dream there
were as usual dramatic additions. It is another case
which we owe to Mr, F. C. Constable,
298 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
(L. 1135.)
The first letter was written to Mr. Constable's cook, Miss
Julia Cox, by her sister, Mrs. Hope, as foUows :
49, Maybrick Road,
[Postmark, " Bath, 10 p.m., April 1.03."]
My Dear Sister,—I am sending you the copy from the
Bible which I hope will be all right. I hope you will
not mind my not coming down, but if this is not satis-
factor}' let me know and I will come and bring the
Bible with me. I shall come down after Easter without
fail if aU is well. It was very strange, but I dreamt
Monday night [api^arently the night of March 30th] that
you came here and wanted the Bible, as you thought you
would take greater care of it than I. I had told Bob
about my dream before I had your letter. . . .
[Signed] F. Hope.
In answer to Mr. Constable's request for corroboratiol^,
Mr. Hope wrote to him :
49, Maybrick Road, Oldfield Park.
[Postmark, " Bath,"] April 6 [1903].
Dear Sm,—In answer to your request with reference
to my wife's dream, I hereby state that my wife had
gone to the theatre with a friend. On going to the front
door I looked behind as I sometimes do, to see if there
were any letters. I found one from my wife's sister,
Julia. As we had received one from her only a day
or two before, I thought something must be the matter,
so I opened it and found it was a request from her for
particulars of her birth entry in a family Bible. I hmited
about and fomid it in a box of old books that had come
from the old home. When my wife came in she saw the
Bible, and said as soon as she got inside the door,
'
' What have you got that old Bible for ? I was dreaming
about it last night. I dreamed that Julia wanted it to
get her birth entry from it." I had not had even a
chance to speak to her before she got that out, nor had
LXXXVi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Exteryialised. 299
she seen the letter, because I had put it behind the
tea-box on the mantel-shelf where we usually put our
letters after reading them.
I was so much struck with the remarkable comcidence
that I told my fellow-workmen about it in the morning.
[Signed] R. H. Hope.
P.S.—I forgot to say that Julia's letter got destroyed
by accident. ... R. H. H.
Mr. Constable writes, enclosing this letter
:
Wick Coubt, near Bristol, 1th April, 1903.
. . . I think (from w"hat I hear, not what I know)
that Mr. Hope's statement is accurate, and his wife's not
so accurate—if, as I think, there is contradiction. But
these letters show how utterly untrustworthy human
memory is in detail. But memory as to general truth I
would suggest is trustworthy. For instance, in this case
something did occur which stinjck those concerned as
exceptional. F. C. Constable.
The following statement was written by Mrs. Constable,
from Miss Cox's dictation, and signed as correct by the latter :
Wick Court, near Bristol.
I went to Bath on a Saturday and returned on a
Tuesday in March. I do not remember the exact day. I
did not know then that I should want the register of
my birth, and did not talk about the entry in the Bible
at all.
I have read what is stated here and it is quite true.
JiiLiA Cox.
Mrs. Constable adds :
10^;^ April, 1903.
From notes in, my possession I Imow that Miss Cox
(my cook) went to Bath on Saturday, March 14th, and
returned on the following Tuesday, March 17th, 1903.
Louisa Constable.
300 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAKT
Mr. Constable writes, enclosing the above, and explaining
the circumstances further :
A2m.l loth, 1903.
JuUa Cox invested through me some money in an
annuity. I thought she had better get at once an
acknowledgment from the office that her birth was rightly
declared and so, after her visit to Bath on the 14th
March, told her to get a copy of the entry in the Bible.
Mr. Constable writes later:
April ISth, 1903.
Mrs. Hope is here to spend the day with Julia Cox.
She has just now told me :
" I dreamt on the Monday night Julia came to me for
the Bible. She said she wanted a copy of her register.
What amazed me was she said she could take better
care of the Bible than I could. On Tuesday I went to
the theatre and when I came back about half-past ten
there was my husband and the Bible on the table. I.
told him of my dream and he said he had a letter from
Julia asking for her register. It was very fmmy. Oh,
j'es ! It seemed just a dream."
Her statement that it was "just a dream" was in
answer to my question. I thought the imjjression might
have been stronger than an ordinary dream.
To a further question Mrs. Hope adds :
—" I have had
dreams before of little matters that have come true, but
none so real as that one." . F. C. Constable.
We cannot tell in this case whether the letter from Miss
Cox to her sister had been written before Mrs. Hope
dreamt of its contents. And the same is true of the
following case (L. 1189, Journal, Vol. XV., p. 263), where
the dream of facts, unknown and unlikely, was confirmed
some days later by a letter describing them. Here,
however, the writer of the letter does not appear to have
figured in the dream, and it is not very probable that he
wrote it earlier than two days after the dream. The
assumption that he was the agent is, therefore, highly
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 301
conjectural, depending on his having had the letter in
mind some days before he wrote, or at least posted, it.
The dreamer, here called Mrs. " Barnard " (pseudonym),
had five days earlier had an interesting reciprocal dream
(see below, L. 1188, p. 415) at a time of considerable
anxiety and trouble about illness of her children.
In the letter of February 21, 1912, quoted below with
L. 1188, JMrs. Barnard also writes :
(L. 1189.)
Another curious dream happened last Friday [Feb. 16].
I dreamed my aunt Miss R. was being piilled up and
down in a lift ; the hft was not painted and looked like
zinc. IVIiss W. was pulling her up and down. My
mother told me it was silly of Miss W. to try to do it,
she nearly had an accident the week before ; she hoped
neither I nor Uncle J. would ever pull her up.
I have not seen this aimt for fourteen years ; I never
hear from her. She is living in a hut in the New Forest,
which is built on the ground floor. Miss W. ... I
have not seen for twenty years. Now I told D. [Mr.
Barnard] about it and he made great fim of a lift being
wanted on a ground floor house. Monday [Feb. 19]
Uncle J. writes :
" Your aunt has had built a sky parlor
and has a hft to pull her up and do\TO. Miss W. is
now livitig with her and can manage the lift, which went
quite wrong last week."
The letter from the uncle, Mr. R., was not preserved, but
Mr. Barnard corroborates Mi's. Barnard's statement in a
commmiication received by us on April 2, 1912. He writes :
L. [Mrs. Barnard] told me of the dream of the lift two
days before Mr. R.'s letter came. I chaffed her about
requiring a lift on a .
ground floor. Two days afterwards
Mr. R.'s letter came, which she showed me with great
triumph.
Owing to various circumstances it has not been possible to
obtain any information as to whether Mrs. Barnard's impression
in regard to the appearance of the hft was correct.
302 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
Whether or not the letter in the last two cases had
anything to do with the percipient's experience, there is a
curious Uttle group of cases in which the letter itself does
seem, at least at first sight, to affect the dream in some
way. The dream not only conveys information contained
in the letter, but is apparently timed by its arrival or
approach. A striking case is L. 1133, Journal, Vol. XI.,
p. 138. It was sent to us by Mr. A. H. Atkins of
3 Clarendon Park, Torquay, with some other apparently
telepathic experiences that had occurred in his family. The
first document I shall quote was written by the dreamer,
Miss Edith Atkins, to her parents on October 27th, 1902.
(L. 11.33.)
I
October 21th, 1902.
. . . Talking about dreams, Sophie [Niederhauser's] letter
adds one to the very curious list of coincidences in this
respect, to wit :—I had not thought or heard anything
of AHce Birniau or Smith as she is now since her marriage ;
I only knew she was married to a man named Smith
about two years ago. Well, Friday night I dreamt I met
her with her husband, and she seemed to be in a flourish-
ing condition, both exceedingly well dressed ;
they were
staying at a hotel in the place where we met them,
where it was I don't Imow, and they were going to
some exhibition or other. I remarked to Ma in my
dream, she being with me, "AHce seems to have done i
well, she has just the same ideas as before." There
endeth my dream ; I woke up, dressed, and went dowTa-
stairs Saturday morning, where I found a letter from
Sophie awaiting me, and almost at the outset of her letter
she informs me that Ahce and her husband called on
them suddenly last Saturday week. [Here follows a
description of the letter, for a copy of which see the
next document.] While reading this epistle it seemed
to me that I was reading something I already knew
quite well. Rather a remarkable coincidence, that
!
I am going to give Sophie a description of her husband
as I saw him in the dream, and I quite expect it will
tally with that of the real man.
lXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : tm-pression Externalised. 303
The next document is a translation (from the French) of an
extract (of which a copy was sent us) from Miss Nieder-
hauser's letter dated from Aarau, Switzerland, October 23rd,
1902.
On Simday I had visitors from England—can you guess
whom ? Alice Birman—^now IVli-s. Smith—with her hus-
band. They came here quite imexpectedly and as we
have only one bed for visitors, they were obhged to go
to the hotel. They took tea with us at four o'clock
but dined at the hotel. They came at ten o'clock on
Saturday evening and went away at nine on Monday
morning. For a long time I had heard nothing of Alice.
Alice has three servants in her household—a cook, a
housemaid, and a nurse. Mr. Smith does not speak
German ; lie is an agreeable man, so gentle and amiable.
They seem to hve like children, happy and affectionate.
They had decided to come to Switzerland suddenly, one
evening. Mr. Smith brought home the tickets and they
set ofF the same night. Alice's chUd is ten weeks old
;
he is called O. F. Alice is just as she always was ;
she is quite different from our other friends. She went
on to Zurich, Liiceme, Bale, and Paris, from whence she
is going home this morning. On Friday moniing she is
to go to a dog show in London Avith one of her three
dogs. I have her photograph in which she has on one
side her baby, a beautiful child, and on the other a very
fine dog. She seemed a little older than before. . . .
The visit was over so quickly that I almost feel as if I
had dreamt it.
After receiving Miss Niederhauser's reply to her letter about
Mr. Smith's appearance, Miss Atkins wrote on January 13th,
1903:
. . . Ahce Birman Smith's husband corresponded with
my dream in that he is very fair, with dehcate features
and a gentle demeanour and smaller than Ahce ;
only in
my dream he was only shghtly smaller than Alice, whereas
he would appear to be a good deal smaller, and Sophie
304 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
says he is clean-shaved, and I dreamt he had a fair
moustache. Of course, if I were to see the man I could
tell \\x an instant if he resembled my dream, and at all
events, considering I had not the slightest idea of what
he was hke, my dream was fairly accurate, and besides
that the incidents resembled very much the way that
Sophie saAv Ahce ; to wit, they were staying at a hotel,
called on Soiahie quite unexpectedly, both together, and
were going to an exhibition to show a dog ; the only
difference in my dream was that I met them in the
road ;
all the other particulars were correct. What
strikes me as more wonderful, though, was the feeling
when I read Sophie's letter that I already Icnew what
she was teUing me, a feelhig perfectly clear and strong ;
that I thmk is the strongest proof of bram communica-
tion, far more importcant than the exact accuracy of the
details.
In this case the letter must either have just arrived or
have been on the verge of arriving when the dream
corresponding to it occurred. We may further observe
that if we may regard the dream Mr. Smith as sufficiently
like the real one to justify the supposition that a super-
normal impression of him had been received, it follows
that the veridical parts of the dream were at any rate
not entirely derived from the letter, but partly at least
direct from the writer. This is an important considera-
tion when we attempt to trace the supernormal process
—
assuming there was one ; and the number of points in
the dream corresponding with fact make chance coincidence
improbable.
In the next case (L. 954, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 103) the
time -coincidence between the dream and the arrival of
the letter is very clear. On the other hand, the corre-
spondence in the content of the two is practically limited
to both being almost entirely occupied with the same
unlikely individual. But again, as in the last case, we
have an element in the dream—the interruption of the
speaker by noise outside—which was not in the letter,
but was in the mind of the writer.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 305
(L. 954.)
The case comes from the Rev. W. M. Lewis, who wrote
from Tyllwyd Penycwm, R. S. 0., Pemb.
October lOth, 1891.
My residence, where I have hved for thirty years, is
within half a dozen mUes of St. Da-\dd's Head, Pem-
brokeshire, occupying a farm and having the pastorate
of a small country Welsh Nonconformist church. I
spent, however, the greater part of May, 1890, in London,
W. One morning during my stay there, I was awoke
by the postman's knock, who, as usual, threw his letters
[on] to the door mat within and passed on. Not wishing
to get up just then, I again slept for a short time, all
of which time became apparently occupied with a dream,
in which I found myself in a crowded hall listening to a
lecture by the Rev. D. C. D , M.A. (London), then
Principal of T College, Breconshire. The lecturer's
voice, always weak, was quite inaudible from where I
was seated ; I strained to catch some remarks, but in
vain. Some noises also outside the hall helped to drown
his voice, and among the noises were the sounds of a
band of music, which grew so loud eventually that the
lecturer sat doAvn. I got up from where I was seated
and went and sat beside him, and told him I was anxious
to attend his lectures at T College, and wished to
laiow what were his present subjects. He attempted to
tell me, but the noises outside were still so loud, that I
was unable to miderstand what he said. After repeated
attempts on his part, I was able to catch the words
"Heaven"' and "Hell." He, however, used a word in
connection with each, which I was still unable to detect
owing to the uproar still continuing. At last I discovered
that this word was " crises," and that the subjects he
wished to inform me of were " Crises in Heaven," " Crises
in Hell." Ail the circumstances of this dream were so
vivid and strange that when I awoke, and while I was
dressing, it entirely occupied my thoughts, and I was
endeavouring to imagine what could have suggested such
a dream. On going downstairs I found that the only
306 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
letter delivered that momiiig was for me, and was from
my youngest son, then at Aberystwyth College, on opening
which, to my great astonishment, I found it wholly
occupied with the name that had filled my dream and was
then filhng my thoughts, relating, after just a remark
that he was glad I was enjoying my stay in London,
that on the previous Smaday the Aberystwyth people and
himself had had a great treat m having the Rev. D. C.
D to occupy the pulpit of the chapel he was attending,
and how he, being such a stranger to the place, had
attracted immense congregations, preached powerful ser-
mons, and made the Sunday quite an event in the place.
I did not Imow that the Rev. Pruicijjal had any intention
of visitmg Aberystwyth, nor had I any means of knowing.
The comcidence appeared to me very remarkable, that
from the moment that the letter wholly occupied with
the name of the Rev. D. C. D was thrown on the
mat, and during the whole of the time that it lay there
unopened, he should also have filled my dream, and
should comiect, through letter and dream combined,
places so far distant and unconnected as London, Brecon,
and Aberystw3'th. '* '
The strangest and most remarkable coincidence remains
to be told. I mentioned above that m my dream Mr.
D -'s voice in the lecture Avhich I was endeavouring to
hear, was inaudible owmg to noises and music outside
the hall. Now, I returned from London here the end of
May, and in course of a couple of months—at the begm-
ning of August—my son came home from Aberystwyth
for midsummer hohdays. One day at table, I related
this dream ui his hearing, and mentioned the strange
comcidence between it and the letter. When I had
finished my son said, " Father, it is very strange that on
the Sunday night when Mr. D was preaching at the
Tabernacle, Aberystwyth, soon after the service began,
there was a circus passing into town, along the back road
on which abuts the chapel wall, and so great was the
noise and uproar of carriages, horse,s and crowd that for
a long time Mr. D could not be heard ; and much
blame was thrown on the town authorities that they
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 307
allowed a procession of that character to disturb the Sunday-
services." It is but fair I should add that, though I
have been once or twice at this chapel of Tabernacle at
Aberystwyth, the lecture hall of my dream did not
correspond to it, but the disturbing uproar of my London
dream corresponded to that which appears to have occurred
at the chapel in that it proceeded from behind the lecturer
or preacher and not from behind the audience.
Mr. Lewis Avrites later :
I have shown the account to my son, who is now here
—who corroborates all that relates to him.
Another case which appeared at the same time as
Mr. Lewis's in the Journal has been published in Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 279. It was a dream of Sir
Lawrence Jones's concerning a cheque having to be filled
up and signed, which occurred while an unexpected letter
containing a cheque the dreamer had to sign lay outside
his bedroom door.
In the next case (L. 936, Journal, Vol. V., p. 246), if
the sequence of events is correctly remembered (there was
an interval of over two years between dream and record),
the arrival of a newspaper seems to have been the occasion
of the dream. We first received a second-hand accoimt
from a lady cognisant of the circumstances at the time,
from which it appears that the dream occurred in the
winter of 1888-9. The dreamer, Mrs. E. F., wrote the
following account on March 18, 1891 :
(L. 936.)
The son of an old friend came West for his health,
and, apparently much helped, returned home some time
before my own son's health began to fail. Building our
hopes on doctor's advice, and what we thought Colorado
chmate had done for that young man, we came out here.
About six weeks after, I dreamed one night that young
G. had suddenly had a severe hemorrhage, ran right
down and died in three or four days [in Connecticut].
308 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
So vivid was the dream that the grief of parents and
only sister was deeply impressed on my mind for a long
time, even to pecuhar expressions they used in speaking
of his death. I wondered about it in the morning as I
had not corresponded with the family or heard about
them from others since leaving home, but I was greatly
startled, on getting my daily home papers [from Connecti-
cut] in that morning's mail, to find a notice of the young
man's death under circumstances very similar to those
of my dream. The mother's rebeUion at her son's death
was afterwards voiced to me in a letter, in language very
like that I dreamed of her using.
There are two other cases which might be called " News-
paper " cases, both sent by Mr. Andrew Lang, but I think
if the newspaper had anything to do with the matter at
all, it was probably as the source of the unknown agent's
information. I will describe them briefly. The first
(G. 268, Journal, Vol. X., p. 232) was a vivid dream of
the death of G. Lohmann, the cricketer, two days after
he died in South Africa, but shortly before seven o'clock
on the morning of the day on which the news appeared
in the morning papers. There was no normal association
of ideas to suggest the dream, but the dreamer, Mr.
Brierley, was on the reporting staff of the Sheffield Daily
Telegraph and mainly concerned with cricket and football.
The news of the death only reached the office after he
had left it the previous evening, but it seems likely that
some of his colleagues when they heard of it would think
of him in connection with it, and a telepathic com-
munication might be the result.
The other case (L. 1174, Journal, Vol. XIV., p. 72) was
a vivid dream of being in an earthquake which occurred
in the early morning of December 29, 1908, about twenty-
four hours after the great Messina earthquake. The
dreamer's first normal knowledge of the earthquake she
derived from the Scotsman newspaper of the morning of
her dream, December 29. It had, however, been men-
tioned in the evening papers of December 28, and friends
at a distance may have seen these and transmitted the
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 309
idea to the dreamer telepathically. This, however, is
highly conjectural, for no particular agent can be sug-
gested nor any reason why the dreamer should be selected
as percipient. The case may be classed with veridical
dreams of public events with which the dreamer is uncon-
cerned, like that of President Carnot's murder (see above
among death coincidences, M.Cl. 88, p. 241).
To go back to letters—the following is an odd case
(L. 1137, Journal, Vol. XI., p. 227) in which the contents
of a post-card seem to have been telepathically com-
municated to a person other than the one to whom it
was addressed—involving apparently, if telepathic, a kind
of three-cornered telepathy like L. 1180, p. 237 above. The
case was sent to us by an Associate of the Society,
Mr. Wilfred Hall, in a letter dated January 4, 1904. He
had received the accounts from a friend of his who was
acquainted with the ladies concerned. All give their names
and addresses. The dreamer, Miss M. Robson, writes
:
(L. 1137.)
On Monday, September 28th, [1903] Miss Elliott casually
said to me that she intended going to Sunderland on the
following Saturday, to see a friend.
That night I had a vivid dream : Miss Elliott came to
me to show a letter which she had received from her
Sunderland friend, askiiig her to postpone her visit, as
bad news—some family trouble—necessitated her immediate
departure.
I was much surprised when on the next day I told
this dream to hear that a letter in actually the same
words had been that morning received by Miss Elliott.
I may add T do not profess to attach any importance
to dreams, and it is quite an unusual thing for me to
relate one. M. Robson.
E. M. Elliott.
Miss ElUott's own accoimt is as follows :
Gateshead, November 25th, 1903.
Some time ago I mentioned to Miss Robson that I
had to go to Sunderland on a certain day to see a friend.
310 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
On the morning of the day on which I had arranged
to go, I received a post-card asldng me to postpone my
visit, as my friend had had some very bad news about a
sister hving at some distance. This news was totally
mexpected, and was a great shook to me, as I loiow aU
the family well.
When I saw Miss Robson an hour or so afterwards,
almost her first words to me were :
" Oh, I had such a
strange and vivid dream last night," and then she pro-
ceeded to tell me her dream, which was in all respects
what had really happened, even to the wording of the
post-card.
I may say Miss Robson knows my friend Miss Smith,
but has never met her sister.
E. M. Elliott.
Another dream in which the percipient dreamt the
substance of a postal communication is L. 895, Journal,
Vol. v., p. 173. The dreamer was Professor Thomas
Davidson, the philosopher, a friend of William James.
He writes :
(L. 895.)
Keene, Essex Co., N.Y., [Tuesday] J^lne 9th, 1891.
Dear Mr. Hodgson,—Last night, toward morning, I
dreamt in a vivid way that my friend, Mr. S. F. Weston,
whom you know, had sent me a postal card saying that
he was " coming on Wednesday." I mentioned my
dream to two friends. Miss Kent and Mrs. John Dewey
(of Ann Arbor), at the breakfast-table. At ten we started
for Upper Jay, some nme miles off. On our way home
we called at the post-office, and there I received from Mr.
Weston the enclosed letter, the miscored part of which
you are free to pubhsh. This was about four o'clock in
the afternoon.
You will see from the letter that I had no reason to
suppose Mr. Weston was coming before the end of the
month. Note that the words which I saw on the card
are not in the letter. The "Wednesday" made a very
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 311"
distinct impression on my mind. The letter, as you-
will see, was written on Smiday.
I enclose the independent testimonies of the two ladies.
* * * * * *
Thomas Davidson.
P.S.—You will understand that, leaving New York
to-day, Mr. W. will get here to-morrow (Wednesday),
—T. D.
In his letter Mx. Weston says :
36, Lee Ave., Brooklyn, June 1th, 1891.
My deab Mk. Davidson,—I have delayed answering
your letter for several days as I have not been quite
sure where I should spend the month of June. . . .
Am sorry I shall not be able to get the things you
wanted as I shall take the boat Tuesday night. Wish
you had mentioned them in your letter. ...
S. F. Weston.
I omit the corroboration by the two ladies, which la
printed in the Journal.
There is, it wdll be observed, no exact time-coincidence
here. The dream occurred more than twenty-four hours
after the letter was written, and apparently some time
before it arrived, while the journey of which the letter
spoke commenced some twelve hours after the dream.
In the case to be next quoted (L. 1218) there is the same
absence of time-coincidence combined with communication
corresponding with a letter or parts of it. The letter was
dated and therefore presumably at least begun more than
two days before the dream, but was not posted till some
twenty-four hours after it. In both these cases it seems
certain that, so far as there was supernormal communica-
tion, it was the agent's intention to convey the informa-
tion that operated and not the letter itself. This makes
it probable that the exact time-coincidence between the
dream and the arrival of the letter in other cases was
accidental except so far as the emergence of the impres-
sion just then may have been stimulated either by the
0
312 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
writer's knowledge of when the letter was likely to arrive
or the dreamer's consciousness of the postman's knock.
^
The case in question (L. 1218, Journal, Vol. XVIII.,
p. 225) was sent to us by an Associate of the Society^
Mrs. C, on March 11, 1918, the dreamer being her
daughter. For shortness I omit Mrs. C.'s narrative and
other corroborative evidence including a note made before
the letter was received (all of which are printed in the
Journal), and give only the dreamer's account, which we
received on April 6, 1918. She writes :
(L. 1218.)
On the morning of Jan. 13th, I awoke from a vivid
dream in which I saw Arthur S. standing in front of me,
in khaki. He looked pleased and said he had some
important news to tell me—giving no details, but I heard
him say, "I can never forget my old friend [G]."—
Then I awoke.
At brealdast I mentioned my dream without going into
details, in fact I wanted the others to guess of whom I
had dreamt as it was a very out of the way person.
Mother asked me not to give any details until the same
evening, which I did in the presence of my sister.
Three days later, by the very last post, I received a
letter from Arthur S., dated the 10th, though bearing the
postmark of the 14th from Seaford. We were aU very
surprised to hear that he was in England, that he had
joined up and had just got married. Almost the last
sentence in his letter contaiiied these words re my brother,
"I often think of my old friend [G.]. ... I have met
a lot of people, but I never forget [G.]."
[Signed with full name.]
It should be explained that the dreamer's brother [G.]
had been killed in the war about two years before, and that
1 That it is the ideas of the writer of the letter in " letter arrival
"
cases, and not the letter itself or the actual time of its arrival that
influences the percipient is supported by a case (M. 41) quoted by Myers
in Proceedings, Vol. IX., pp. 68-70. In this case the information
emerged through automatic writing.
LxxxvT.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 313
Arthur S. was a friend of his whom the dreamer and her
family believed to be permanently in Canada. Nothing had
occurred to make the dreamer think of him.
§ 4. Coincidence with ideas not connected by agent loith
percipient. Unconscious telepathic leakage.
I now pass on to cases where the contents of the
dream or hallucination appear to be due, as in the last
section, to an idea or thought in the agent's mind, but
one entirely unconnected by him with the percipient.
And not only, had the agent no intention of communicat-
ing the idea to the percipient, but, so far as is known, no
thought at all of the percipient in connection with it. If
there was telepathic communication, the agent's share in it
might be described as unconscious telepathic leakage.
f-
I wiU give first a dream (L. 1219, Journal, Vol. XVIIl.,
p. 227) dreamt by the same lady who sent us the one
last quoted. To put it shortly : on January 16th, 1918,
Mrs. C, the mother of the dreamer, spent the afternoon
with Madme. R., who lived at the top of a high block of
flats. In the course of conversation on many topics,
Madme. R. related how Mrs. X. in a delicate state of
health greatly dreaded air-raids. One took place. Mrs.
X. was taken ill and twins were born prematurely. Mrs.
C, who did not know Mrs. X., is certain that she did
not repeat this tale to her family. Next morning, how-
ever, her daughter related a dream which she, the dreamer,
afterwards wrote down as follows :
(L. 1219.)
On Wednesday, the 1 6th Jan., I dreamt as follows :
There was a dreadful air-raid in progress. Mother and
1 were in a lofty building watching it and at the same
time attending to a very tiny baby, which I was holding
in my arms,- wrapped in a blanket.
There waf also another woman in the room carrying
a tiny baby and she seemed very agitated as she walked
up and down with it.
In my dream the raid was very bad, and I could see
314 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
flashes of light on the windows and was nearly deafened
with the noise of guns and the humming of the aeroplanes.
I remember feeling terrified at the time, as it was quite
the worst raid I had ever been in. I told mother this
the next morning, when she at once said, " Oh, but this
is what Mme. R. told me when I was with her yesterday."
[Signed with full name.]
For shortness I omit the agent's account and corro-
borative evidence. A bad air raid combined with two
little babies seems too complicated a coincidence to
attribute to chance.
In the next case (L. 836, Journal, Vol. IV., p. 221) the
idea transferred is simple but very definite, and the dream
evidently made an unusual impression. It comes from a
gentleman who does not wish his name to be printed.
His wife has sent us a similar, though somewhat less full
account of what occurred.
(L. 836.)
December 9th, 1889.
On Sunday morning, November 24th [1889], I was at
home, reading carefully Sir Wilham Hamilton's Lectures
on Metaphysics. After finishmg Lecture xx., I felt some-
what drowsy, and very soon fell asleep. This was at
about 12 o'clock. I slept for about 10 mmutes, and
during that time I dreamt that a friend of mine ap-
peared before me and said, " I say, you owe me twopence
for postage in connection with that mortgage." "All
right," I repUed, " business is business," and saying this
I put my hand in my pocket, and drawing it out gave
him the twopence he required. With this I woke.
My friend has been managing some mortgage business
for me during the last two months.
My wife had gone out about 10.15 a.m., intending to
visit a church she had not been to before. Finding it
rather farther than she expected, she thought she would
like to take the tram back. But she had left her purse
at home. However, being near a friend's house (the
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Im'pression Externalised. 315
friend I saw in my dream), she called in and asked for
the loan of twopence. His wife lent my wife sixpence,
and he himself accompanied my wife to the church, which
was very near. It was just before 11 o'clock. After
the service my wife took the tram, and arrived home at
about 1 o'clock. My dream had made so great an im-
pression on my mind that I immediately told her about
it, and to my utter astonishment she related the story of
borrowing twopence, which she said she would not have
thought it worth while mentioning otherwise.
A dream case printed in the Journal for January 1920
(L. 1228, Journal, Vol. XIX., p. 138) resembles the last
in triviality and contemporaneousness, and eminently
suggests unconscious telepathic leakage, or, as the agent
calls it, " telepathy without conscious effort." It was
sent to us by Mr. B. Jordan-Smith, an Associate of the
Society, who wrote :
(L. 1228.)
Orchaudlea, Grosvenor Road, Caversham, Reading,
November 27, 1919.
Miss E. M. Thomas [the percipient] is a Birmingham
friend of ours and staying at the above address for a
few days. So far I have never tried any telepathic
experiments with the lady.
After relating what she said was her dream, she modified
it by saying that she was more or less in the stage of
waking (half awake).
Mrs. Jordan-Smith confirms these statements as she was
present at the time.
B. Jordan-Smith.
The following statements were enclosed with this letter :
I.
November 2Gth, 1919 (written 10 a.m.)
At 8.30 a.m. this morning at breaMast at the above
address, Miss Ethel Thomas, a visitor, related what she
316 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
said at the time was a dream, just on the point of waking
up, as follows :
" I was counting the number of men and women
going on board ship at Southampton, and the number
was fifteen. I could almost tell who they were."
I mentioned that I thought that this was a case of
" telepathy without conscious effort," and related that at
8.15 a.m. I was shavmg in an adjoinmg room, and count-
ing up in my mind the number of people going on board
ship on Thursday, and on a ship at Southampton, the
same time. The total number was 15.
Mrs. Jordan -Smith just after I had shaved went into
Miss Thomas's room to rouse her. B. Jordan-Smith.
II.
November 26, 1919.
[I was] just dreammg when Mrs. B. Jordan-Smith
called me this morning, or rather she came mto my
room and touched me and said :
" Breakfast will soon be
ready, but no hurry."
I got up, without hurry, and came down and fomad Mr.
and Mrs. Jordan-Smith havmg breakfast. I said to Mrs.
Jordan-Smith : "I was dreammg about a ship when you
came and woke me." Mr. Jordan-Smith then took it
up :
" What about a ship ?
" he asked. " Oh," I rephed,
" it was just going from Southampton, and I stood by
counting the people gomg aboard." " How many 1
"
he asked.
" Fifteen," I replied.
He then told me that just before, and at the time
Mrs. Jordan-Smith broke into my dream, he was shaving
in bath-room, and was thmking over a ship sailing from
Southampton next day, on which he had fifteen passengers.
Ethel Marlbr Thomas.
(witness) Annie Jordan-Smith.
In answer to enquiries, Mr. and Mrs. Jordan-Smith
and Miss Thomas make it clear that none of them re-
membered anything having been said, or having happened,
LXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases: Impression Externalised. 317
that could have suggested to Miss Thomas ships saiUng
from Southampton or the number of passengers.
Another case in which unconscious leakage seems to
have occurred is L. 1191 [Journal, Vol. XV., p. 337), the
agent being either Mrs. or Miss Verrall—probably
the former—and the percipient Miss " Ann Jones
"
(pseudonym) mentioned below (pp. 330 and 352) who was
staying with them. As regards the agent's side Mrs.
Verrall writes :
(L. 1191.)
On October 22, 1912, my daughter's script contained
the phrases, in juxtaposition :
" The Lombard poplar—the Florentine's fierce love
—
"
This script was|^- seen by me on Nov. 2, and suggested
to me that the - combination of Lombardy with Dante
might refer to Dante's stay at Verona. Dante at Verona
is the title and subject of a poem by D. G. Rossetti.
On November 7 I began annotating this H. V. script,
but left my notes incomplete for further investigation of
its hterary or classical allusions.
Further investigation, after the hint given by the
dream, makes it clear that the allusion in the script is to
Dante at Verona. . . .
Miss Jones knew that my daughter and I were auto-
matic -writers, but had no knowledge of the H. V. script
of Oct. 22, 1912. M. DE G. Verrall.
At breakfast on November 10th Miss Jones described
spontaneously to Mss Verrall, and afterwards to Mrs.
Verrall, her dream of the night before, and their accounts
are given in the Journal, but omitted here for shortness.
Miss Jones's own account is as follows :
Nov. 21, 1912.
On the night between Saturday and Simday, November
9 and 10 (1912), I was awakened from a rather confused
dream, in which I was either writing script myself or
watching people write, by a voice which gave me a very
urgent message to the effect that "They" were to be
318 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
told to look at Verona, or to go to Verona, as " They "
were now on the wrong tack. I was sufficiently awake
to know where I was, and I asked, " Whom shall I tell
—Helen ?
" " Tell H. to tell her mother," was the reply.
It seemed to me that the mask of Dante, which I may
have seen that afternoon in Newnham Library, was
floating in the darkness. There was more of this message,
and 1 was urged to write it down there and then, but,
feehng disinclined to get up for a light and writing
materials, I satisfied myself by repeating the whole mes-
sage. In the morning, however, I had forgotten all
but what I told Miss Verrall, and have here set down.
I am not quite sure that I was myself writing script
in the dream.
[Signed Ann Jones.]
Miss Verrall adds :
Miss Jones told me to-day, Nov. 21, 1912, that what
she saw in her dream was the death mask of Dante,
with which she is famihar, not the bust of which there
is a copy ha the Newnham Library ; but she thought
the one might have reminded her of the other.
Helen de G. Vekrall.
P.S.—(Dec. 2, 1912.) Although I have often discussed
questions of psychical research with Miss Jones, I am
absolutely certain that I never told her anything of the
contents of my unpublished scripts (except that I once
quoted to her an automatic poem which I wrote some
years ago) until after she had told me of her dream on
Nov. 10, 1912. I then said that I had recently had a
script containing references to Dante and Verona.
H. DE G. V.
There is a curious case (L. 1182, Journal, Vol. XIV.,
p. 382) of a dream during a few minutes' afternoon sleep
reproducing a scene foretold in planchette writing, of which
the dreamer knew nothing ; but as the dream was not
mentioned till the planchette prophecy had been described
to the dreamer, and as the dreamer seems both un-
interested in the incident and distrustful of his own
LXXxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 3i§
memory after a few weeks, I will not describe it further
here. There was certainly no intentional telepathic
transference.
In two other instances of unconscious leakage (if there
was telepathy), both collected for us by Mr. F. J. M.
Stratton of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, and
carefully gone into in detail by him, the dreams occurred
apparently two or three days after the incidents, to which
they respectively seem to refer, had become known to
the supposed agents. There was therefore no traceable
time-coincidence between the impressions of agent and
percipient, and though this does not exclude telepathy
as the source of the ideas in the percipient's mind, it
leaves a wider scope for chance. In both cases the
agent and percipient were in correspondence, though in
the first only about a visit the percipient was to pay to
the agent. I will describe both cases briefly.
(L. 1184.)
In the first (L. 1184, Journal, Vol. XV., p. 87) Mrs.
WooUacott had been staying with a sister-in-law who had
two sons aged eleven and seventeen. A few days after
she left, namely, on August 23, 1910, the younger nephew
had an accident in the swimming bath, alarming at the
moment but leading to no serious consequences. Of this
Mrs. WooUacott heard from her sister-in-law on August 30th
or 3l8t. During the first week in September her friend
Miss Poupard had a dream which impressed her much at the
time, and which she describes on November 11th, 1910, as
follows :
In my dream I was reading a newspaper, when the
stop-press news attracted my attention ; I read that an
accident had happened to one of Mrs. WooUacott's nephews.
As I read I seemed to see the occurrence—the boy ap-
peared to fall from a bridge or other structure into some
water, being either killed in the fall, or drowned. The
strange part of it was that I had no idea my friend
Mrs. WooUacott had any nephews, yet in my dream
there were distinctly two, their ages being about twelve
and seventeen.
S20 Mrs. Benry Sidgwick. [paet
Miss Poupard related this dream to Mrs. WooUacott
when she went to stay with her on September 11th—before
she could by any possibility have heard about the nephews
or the accident.
In the other case (L. 1185, Journal, Vol. XV., p. 107)
the dreamer. Dr. R. G. Markham, describes what occurred
as follows on April 30th, 1911 :
(L. 1185.)
April mil, 1911.
During the night of Dec. 5th, 1909, I had a dream
which was so peculiar as to impress itself on my memory,
and the next morning I mentioned it to the people with
whom I was staying at the time, and also the same day
wrote to my fiancee, and told her to remind me, on the
following day, to narrate it to her, but gave her no
particulars.
As far as I can now remember, the dream was as
foUows :
A physician. Dr. L., and I were standing at a bedside.
I recognised the patient to be a certain Nurse W. who
was at that [time] a nurse at the Prince of Wales's
General Hospital, Tottenham. The Doctor, after examin-
ing her chest, asked me to do so as well, and then asked
my opinion about the disease present, stating that he
himself thought that she was suffering from heart disease,
but certain other signs suggested more serious mischief.
During my residence at this hospital, this particular
nurse had always been considered as one of the strongest,
and it was this fact that impressed the dream on my
memory. The next day, Dec. 7th, I met my fiancee
and narrated the dream to her, and to my astonishment
fomad that the nurse about whom I had dreamt had
actually been examined and advised to leave the hospital.
R. G. Markhabi.
Miss Wilson, afterwards Mrs. Markham, gave a sub-
stantially similar account almost a year earlier. This is
printed in the Journal. It appears that Nurse W. had
LXXXVT.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 321
been examined by Dr. L. on December 3rd, 1909, and
ithat she finally left the hospital about December 12th,
1909. Presumably Miss Wilson was the agent in this
case.
As more or less analogous to these latter dreams may
be mentioned L. 1096 and L. 1098 {Journal, Vol. VIII.,
pp. 141 and 145), which came to us from the former
American Branch of the Society. The dreamer. Miss
Luke, was in the habit of having veridical dreams and
also impressions about people somewhat as Mrs. Adam
did (see above, L. 1164, p. 64). In the Journal, Vol.
VIII., four of Miss Luke"s dreams are recorded, three of
:them collected and arranged, with, in two cases, corro-
borative evidence, by Dr. Osgood Mason, who knew her
weU. Of the four dreams, however, the most striking
was recorded too long after the event for our collection,
and the most important evidentially is quoted in Myers'
Human Personality. In the two that remain, the coin-
cidences are perhaps hardly remarkable enough to merit
discussion here, though interesting regarded as items in a
series.
In the dreams apparently showing telepathic leakage so
far considered in the present section there is no reason,
except possibly in L. 1185 (p. 320), to suspect the presence
jof emotional disturbance in the agent's mind. In the
[next four cases the idea transferred was to the agent a
'cause of mental agitation or emotion. Whether this
helped to give it what we may caU telepathic energy, we
do not know, but at any rate that energy was not in-
tentionally directed to the percipient. I will take the
cases in the order in which they appeared in the Journal.
The first (L. 1168, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 153) came
through the American Branch of the Society. It was
sent to Dr. Hodgson by an acquaintance—a Member of
the Society—whose name as well as those of agent and
percipient are suppressed for reasons that will be obvious.
He says of Mr. A., the husband of the agent, that he is
a gentleman of unquestioned character and standing whom
he has known well for twenty years. Mr. A. writes :
1
322 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part,
(L. 1168.)
New York, March 24, 1893. !
On the 9th of March, 1893, I received from Mr. B.
a letter dated March 8th, 1893, asking for a loan of a
considerable sum of money. The circumstances in the
'
case called for very careful consideration, and certain ^
pecuUar personal relations to Mr. B. and his family
connections made it important to have the advice and
opinion of my wife. I therefore showed Mr. B.'s letter
to her, and asked her to think about it for a day or
two, which she did, and talked with me on the subject
on the evening of March 9th, and also from time to
time on the 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th of March.
On the 14th of March she received from a friend—Mrs.
C.—living in a Western town about 2000 miles from
New York, a letter dated and posted March 11th, 1893,
as follows :
"My dear Mrs. A.,—Although still confined to my bed tl
as I wrote you, and finding it a physical difficulty to si
write, a dream of you, which has come to me two sue- I
cessive nights, is so real I must transcribe it to you, c
however lightly you may choose to consider it, and I i
beg your generous heart to pardon any presumption \
which may appear in my making sufficient of it to send (
you a description. c
" I saw you walking meditatively up and down a path s
in your home, with a lace scarf about your head, con- t
sidering a loan of which you were contemplating the (
making. You were quite inclined to the transaction, !
but a voice kept saying to me, '
She will regret it—tell i
her not to. It will lead to grief for her, and for many 1
reasons be a mistake.' i
" My dear friend of the olden and the present time, i
laugh if you will, but accept the interest and affection
which prompt my writing, and with love to your house-
hold, believe me ever your faithful friend, "[Mrs.] C."
Mrs. C. has not been East within the past six months.
I have the best reason to beheve that she has never
seen Mr. B. nor any of his family relatives or connections.
My wife is quite positive that she never mentioned him
LXXXVT.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 323
nor any of his connections to Mrs. C, and that Mrs. C.
does not know of his existence.
Dr. Hodgson's informant tells him that he himself
carefully compared the copy of Mrs. C.'s letter, incor-
porated in air. A.'s statement, with the original. He
adds :
"You wiU note that in Mrs. C.'s dream ]S'Irs. A. was
'
quite inclined towards the transaction.' JVIr. A. says
this is correct. It is probably also correct that Mrs.
A. wore a lace scarf about her head, though of this she
cannot be certain. INIrs. C. had seen INIrs. A. wearing
such a scarf a year or so ago."
The repetition of the dream, as here described, is an
interesting and unusual feature.
In the next case (L. 1173, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 328)
the dreamer was Mss Lucy Edmunds, for a long time
secretary to Dr. Hodgson, and until recently an
Honorary Associate of the Society. It is an interesting
case, but as affording evidence of telepathy somewhat
dubious because the dream might quite weU have occurred
without stimulus from without. It is, in fact, w^hat
Gurney would have called an ambiguous case—a class of
cases dealt with below. The likelihood, however, is con-
siderable that the dream was influenced by Mr. Brown's
desire to see a vision of his dead son and his effort to
do so at apparently the very time of the dream ;
especi-
'aUy as his mind and J\Iiss Edmunds' were both occupied
with the same scene—the view^ from the window. It has
,
been suggested above (pp. 182-3) that common interest in
a locality may have facilitated telepathic impressions in
certain cases.
]\Iiss Edmunds writes on June 5, 1896 :
(L. 1173.)
On Wednesday, June 3rd, Dorothy showed me a minia-
ture of her brother Stuart, who died last February 5th,
and whom I have never seen.
On Thursday, Juue 4, I went upstairs at nine and
324 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
undressed in the dark so as to enjoy the Hghts in the
distance through the open windows. I loitered, and
several times sat on the sofa by the window looking
towards the Town Hall. It was 9.30 before I was in
bed, when I fell asleep almost immediately. I awoke
from a dream soon after ten. (I judged the time, not
from my watch, but from hearing the clock strike eleven
(what seemed to be) nearly an hour after awaking.)
I dreamed that I was awake and sitting on the sofa
looldng down the hill towards the hghts among the trees,
just as I had sat before going to bed, when suddenly
one of the hghts took the form of a human face among
the trees. I was so surprised that I rose up and went
nearer to the window and exclaimed aloud:
" What an astonishing thing, that looks exactly like
the face of Stuart BroAvn !
"
The face immediately smiled ; the eyes lit up and
looked right into mine, and the face came swiftly towards
me through the trees, when, just as it got near the
window, it vanished, and I awoke and heard footsteps in
a closet which is next to the room I occupied.
The dream was so vivid that I could, on awaking,
mentally recall the face and compare it with the mmia-
ture which I had seen the day before. It was like the
miniature, but life size and radiant with hght and exijres-
sion, commg out of the hght at which I had been looking.
The dream wakened me so thoroughly that I did not
sleep again until after twelve,
I related the dream to Mrs. Brown at breakfast time
after Mr. Brown had gone, and asked her if she went to
the closet and whether she thought of Stuart at the
time. I thought in the night that such might be the
case.
Before mentioning the dream to Mr. Brown in the
evening, Mrs. Brown asked him what he was thinking of
when he went to the closet the night before. He could
not remember thmking of anything special excepting in
connection with fsome boots which he placed on a shelf,
and which he had not worn since in camp last summer
;
but he interrupted me, or tried to, when I began to tell
Lxxxvi.] Spmitaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 325
him my dream and spoke of sitting at the window and look-
ing at the hghts. After I had finished telling my dream
he related the following, which he wrote immediately after.
Mr. Brown's accomit is as follows :
On the evening of Jxme 4, 1896, about 10.10 p.m., I
was sitting in the parlor facing the bay-window looking
south-west, [" where," he says later, " the outlook is
almost precisely the same " as from Miss Edmunds' win-
dow] reading the paper. My mind wandered from the
reading to thoughts of Myers' articles on Crystal- Visions,
which I had read a day or two before.
Looking out of the window I thought of Stuart, wonder-
ing if it were possible for his face to appear to me and
with a great longing that I might see him. I wondered
if I could be susceptible to such visions, but as I had
never experienced anything of the Idnd, in a few moments
gave it up.
After attending to one or two household duties, I went
upstairs at 10.20 as I noticed' by the clock. On reaching
my room the first thing done was to put away a new-
pair of shoes, moving at the time an old pair which I had
not worn smce I was in camp with Stuart last August.
This accounts for the footsteps Miss Edmunds heard in
the closet wdien she awoke, and times the dream as having
occurred within a very' few^ minutes of Mr. Brown's
longing to see the vision.
There follows evidence to show that Mr. Brown's recol-
lection of his experience and Miss Edmunds' of hers were
independent.
The following carefully recorded case (L. 1183, Journal,
Vol. XV., p. 17) speaks for itself.
The account was sent to us by Major Nelson :
(L. 1183.)
The Mange, House, Stoke D'Abernon,
Surrey, August 29th, 1910.
Playing golf last week I happened to mention to my
opponent, a member of the Psychical Research Society
326 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
a strange incident that occurred to me last Xmas Eve,
or rather in the early hours of Xmas Day.
I ought to tell you that I never dream. I believe as a
child I had nightmares like other children, but since then
a dream has been to me an unlaiown quantity.
With this laiowledge you will understand why what
occurred last Xmas made so deep an impression. The
whole of that day and the next my mind was obsessed
by the incident, but I kept it entirely to myself.
On the momuig of the 27th I dreamed again, and at
dinner the same night the conversation turned upon
dreams. Then for the first time I communicated my
strange experiences to two ladies sitting on either side of
me, IVIrs. Rowan Hamilton, of Killyleagh Castle, Co. Down,
and her niece by marriage, Mrs. Sidney Rowan Hamilton.
On the 28th I wrote to Mr. Sandwith, the Rector of
St. Bartholomew's, Smithfield, whom I had not seen for
some considerable time, and asked him if he had been
worried about some child. He replied by coming down to
Stoke, and was amazed when I told him what had oc-
curred, and proceeded to tell me what had been going
on in his parish.
There is no possible explanation of how I could have
been cognisant of the fact that Mr. Sandwith had been
worried, for I had never heard of the child or of the German.
His letter was written after his visit in reply to my
question, and at my request he wrote setting forth the
particulars. I enclose the original documents.
A. Nelson, Major.
P. 8. —I am, or rather was, by no means well acquainted
with the passage from Scripture ; yet it is verbatim correct.
Major Nelson sent us with this letter the original records
he had made of his two dreams at the time, which were as
follows :
The Manor House, Stoke D'Abernon,
Surrey, Xmas Day, '09.
Last night I dreamed a dream so strange and vivid
that I wish to record the occurrence while I can re-
member the details.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 327
I dreamed that I was in the drawing-room of 12a,
Charterhouse Square, alone. Suddenly the door opened
and Sandwith came in and said :
" Look here, Nelson,
you can help me—I wish you would come—I am terribly
distressed about this poor child, a soldier's child too."
I got up and followed him to the dining-room. He
knelt down at the table and motioned me to kneel beside
him. Then he said, " Now, I want you to repeat every
word I say after me." I cannot remember the exact
words, but the gist was that God would intervene to
save some child—whether from danger or death I know
not—for I cannot recall the words.
Suddenly Sandwith stopped speaking English, and began
to pray in German. I was unable then to repeat his
words, for I know no German, and as I was telling him
so, I awoke. A. Nelson.
Dec. 21th, '09.
I have had another dream of startling significance, and
record it at once.
I dreamed that I asked myself what could jaossibly
be the meaning of so extraordinary a request on Sand-
with 's part. Immediately there came into my mind or
fell upon my ear—I know not which—these words : "If
two of you shall agree upon earth as touching anything
they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father
which is in Heaven."
Mr. Sandwith, after visiting Major Nelson and hearing of
his dream, sent him the following statement of the circum-
stances, which he forwarded to us :
12a, Chaeterhouse Square, E.G.,
Dec. 30, '09.
Here are the particulars. I have for a fortnight or so
before Christmas been considerably worried over the
marriage of a German, not a naturahzed Englishman, to
a girl in this Parish.
I spoke to the girl's father about it, and wrote to the
Bishop of London asking whether the production of a
X
328 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PABT
licence would guarantee the validity of the marriage, if
the contracting parties eventually resided in Germany.
The Bishop said he thought so, but that I had better
go to Doctors' Commons and state the facts, in case they
had overlooked the point of the man not being a natural-
ized Englishman.
I asked the father of the girl to accompany me, but
he said he felt satisfied. This added considerably to my
worry, as I felt he was the proper person to safeguard
his daughter's future, and any interference on my part
was a delicate matter. As the Bishop's letter was
addressed to me personally through his Chaplain, " you
had better go to Doctors' Commons," I regarded it as a
personal direction from my Bishop and went, and asked
for a written statement from the Chancellor of the Diocese
that all was in order. This I duly received, and the
marriage was solenmized on Christmas Day at 10.20 a.m.
W. F. G. Sandwith.
We have also received from Mrs. Rowan Hamilton, of
Killyleagh Castle, County Down, the following statement
:
Nov. 9, 1910.
With reference to your letter dated 29th Oct., 1910,
to Major A. Nelson regardmg the dream described by him,
I wish to corroborate his statement to you dated 29th
August, 1910. LiNA Rowan Hamilton.
A similar statement has been received from Mrs. Sidney
Rowan Hamilton, to whom Major Nelson also si^oke of his
dream.
In reply to questions tending to ehcit what normal causes
might have i^roduced the dream. Major Nelson states that he
had never helped Mr. Sandwith in any way iia his parochial
work. He also says that Mr. Sandwith assured him that he
had not thought of him in connection with his difficulty.
He adds :
Nov. 4, '10.
The only connection that I can conceive between the
fact of Mr. Sandwith's being worried and my dream is
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Extenialised. 329
the existence of some lines on the subject of prayer written
m. a friend's Prayer Book, which I sent to Mr. Sandwith,
before writing them in the book, to ask whether the
theology was sound, in Sejjtember, 1909.
This statement of Major Nelson's is of psychological interest
as possibly throwing light on the mechanism of the dream.
It seems as if the telejsathic impulse had been the primary
cause of the dream ; that the thought of the German and
Mr. Sandwith thus telepathically aroused had called up, through
a normal process of association of ideas with the latter, the
additional notion of prayer, and that the three conceptions
were combined into the dream idea of Mr. Sandwith recitiiig a
prayer in German.
The remaining case (L. 1J97, Journal, Vol. XVI., p. 118)
of this class—unconscious leakage with emotion on the
part of the agent—is a curious one. It came to us from
Dr. Emil Mattiesen of Berlin, who evidently took much
trouble in collecting the evidence—all the more difficult
to do because it comes largely from unediicated persons.
It is long and somewhat complicated, so I will give only
the main points here. The percipient, Mr. Joseph Zohrer,
was a shoemaker in Berlin. On May 5th, 1913, he gave
an account of what he regarded as a waking vision,
and of the events connected with it, orally to Dr. Mattie-
sen, who took it down from his dictation. He was, it
appears, in the habit of occasionally seeing visions and
hearing voices. In this vision, which occurred on March
16th, or possibly 15th, 1912, angelic beings and other
" spirits " took part, and the angelic beings told him his
sister, Mrs. Agnes Sommer, was in need, and that it was
his duty to help her ; while a voice said he was to send
her 60 kronen. This he did by postal order, the post
office receipt being dated March 19th, 1912. This is the
only contemporary document, for the sister's post-card
acknowledging the money is lost. According to her
brother [translated by Dr. Mattiesen] it ran :
" Dear
brother. The money you sent me, was a great divine
miracle. I was in great need and have prayed God
330 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [PAET
fervently for help. Then I was told help would come,
whereupon I thanked God. But of you I had no
thought."
Mrs. Sommer has written to Dr. Mattiesen to the same
effect. She kept a shop at Graz in Styria, and her
brother believed her to be in fairly flourishing circum-
stances. She was, however, in great difficulty for want
of about 60 kronen to meet an urgent account. According
to a letter to her brother dated July 19th, 1912, seen by
Dr. Mattiesen, and confirmed by the one to himself on
May 23rd, 1913, she had prayed earnestly for help on
March 17th, 1912, and received assurance that her prayer
would be answered. Also on March 18th, the eve of
her brother's name day, she had prayed for " bliss for her
brother." Both these dates were apparently after her
brother's vision, but her anxiety and need of assistance
probably began considerably earlier.
There is a case difficult to classify (P. 286, Journal,
Vol. XVI., p. 51) which should perhaps be placed in this
section—unconscious leakage. On the other hand, how-
ever, the more important part of it may be interpreted
as a premonition not involving telepathy. It is recorded
very fully in the Journal, and I feel tempted to leave
it at that lest I should be accused of dragging evidence
for premonition unfairly into a discussion of telepathy.
I will, however, compromise by mentioning the chief
points. Miss " Ann Jones," another of whose experiences
is described on p. 317 and others on p. 352, dreamt
on the night of July 15th, 1912, that a lady with whom
she had recently been staying and a party of friends
came in very late from an after-dinner motor drive.
This was veridical as far as it went, and happened on
the night of the dream and probably almost exactly
contemporaneously with it, though it is unlikely that
Miss Jones' friends thought of her in connexion with
their excursion. But mixed up with this in the dream
was a Mr. M. who had nothing to do in fact with the
motor party, but whose poems Miss Jones had been
arranging for publication. In the dream he showed her a
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Gases : Impression Extei'nalised. 33
1
portfolio of drawings illustrating the poems. Now Mr. M.
had recently made the acquaintance of an artist, Mr. F.,
who was not known to Miss Jones. He first saw him
I
on the day (July 11th) on which Miss Jones was arranging
i the poems, which she despatched to Mr. M. on the 12th.
There was no conscious idea of their being illustrated at
that time, nor till July 18th, when Mr. M. visited Mr. F.
at his studio and a sketch for one poem was made, and
when ]\'Ir. F. asked to see the whole collection. The
illustrations were drawn in the following week and Miss
Jones saw them on the 29th, when she found they
resembled the portfolio of her dream. If this was pre-
monition pure and simple, we have nothing to do with it
here. But if the coincidence was brought about by
telepathy, then we must suppose either that Miss Jones
first had the idea, which emerged in her dream, of the
poems being illustrated, and as agent telepathicaUy sug-
gested it to Mr. M. and through him to Mr. F., or that
Mr. M. himself had subconsciously the idea of illustrations,
owing perhaps to making Mr. F.'s acquaintance, and tele-
pathicaUy transferred it to Miss Jones. Mr. M. may have
known the probable style and appearance that illustrations
by Mr. F. would assume. I do not think some such
chain of psychical events at aU impossible, nor even
strained, with the extended idea of the operation of
telepathy which is, I think, gradually being forced on us.
At the same time there is in this case by itself nothing
that can be called evidence of it.
It will have struck the reader in perusing the cases so
far recorded in this chapter that after § 1, which contains
the death coincidences, a very large proportion of the
experiences of percipients are dreams. This is especially
so in § 3 and § 4, dealing with apparent transference of
ideas. And this might have been expected, because,
except in cases of very definite crisis in the agent's life,
or of very definite desire to communicate with the per-
cipient, some correspondence in detail is usually required
before we begin to think the coincidence between the
agent's and the percipient's experiences remarkable ; and
Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
details we are much more likely to get in dreams than in
apparitions. As said before, apparitions of the realistic
kind, which are the commonest, seldom convey anything
more to the percipient than the idea of the agent's
personality. If they suggest, e.g. his death, it is usually
by inference only—the inference that so unusual an
experience must portend something serious. An inter-
esting exception, if it was telepathic, is the case (L. 1109)
with which I begin the next section.
§ 5. Ambiguous Cases.
By ambiguous cases I mean (1) cases in which the
percipient's experience is clear and interesting, but in
which either the agent's corresponding experience is not
distinctive or unusual enough for us to claim the coin-
cidence between the two as evidence of telepathy, or
the correspondence in time is doubtful. There is a
coincidence of a kind, and telepathy may account for it,
but the cases would hardly be worth quoting from that
point of view alone. (2) Cases may also be called
ambiguous when the coincidence is remarkable, but we
cannot point to a particular agent. The fact conveyed
to the percipient by his experience was true and was
doubtless known to some person or persons, but there
was no obvious reason why the percipient should have
been in touch with them, so that if the knowledge was
obtained telepathicallj^, an extended view of the operation
of telepathy seems to be involved.
There is, of course, no hard and fast line marking off
ambiguous cases, and the line would probably be drawn
differently by different people. Moreover, it will at once
occur to the reader that ambiguous cases have already
been quoted or mentioned in this paper. In particular
I have not attempted to exclude them in Chapter II.,
dealing with non-externalised impressions, and there are
several examples there. In the present chapter we have
also had ambiguous cases, included generally because they
seemed analogous to some other case. As examples may
be mentioned the dreams of President Camot's murder
(M. CI. 88, p. 241), of General H.'s death (L. 1180, p. 237),
tlXxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 333
and the dream of an earthquake (L. 1174, p. 308), because
in these we cannot point to a particular agent ;
and,
again, Miss Edmunds' dream (L. 1173, p. 323) and
two " arrival " cases (L. 1222, p. 295, and L. 1225, p. 296),
because it is doubtful whether the agent's side of the
coincidence is sufficiently marked. What I am really
doing now, therefore, is to put together in this section a
residuum of cases, ambiguous in one of the two ways
mentioned, which belong to this chapter because the per-
cipient's experience is either a sensory hallucination or a
dream of the same character, but which do not con-
veniently fit into any of the groups into which the cases
in the chapter have been divided.
The first case (L. 1109, Journal, Vol. VIII., p. 329)
I place here with some hesitation. There is some evidence
for telepathy, but it depends on details of the agent's
costume at the moment being apprehended by the per-
cipient, and it is difficult to know how distinctive that
apprehension was, especially as the case did not reach us
tUl the agent and percipient had talked the matter over.
The case is interesting whatever way we look at it, for
if the percipient was, as he believed, awake at the time,
it is exceptional in our collection in two respects. It is
the only reahstic apparition affecting three senses—hearing,
sight and touch—and it is the only realistic apparition
conveying any information as to the agent's actual con-
dition at the moment. The percipient, at the time a
schoolboy at a boarding school, wrote in August 1898 :
(L. 1109.)
On Sunday night, March 20th, 1898, I had gone to bed
as usual (about 9.30 or 10). I could not sleep and began
thinking of home and especially of mother. My bed
was so placed that I could see the staircase, and, after
a bit, to my surprise, I heard someone coming up the
stairs. It flashed into my mind that it was mother,
and so it proved to be. She was dressed in a black
dress that I had never seen before, and had on her pink
shawl and gold chain, and as she came into the room her
334 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [paet
shoes creaked ; in fact, they did so all the time. I did
not feel at all frightened but tried to get out of bed
to go to her, but something held me back. She went
to the bed before mine, where my chum sleeps, and bent
over him and looked at him. Then she came to me and
kissed me ;
I tried to kiss her but could not. Then she
disappeared and .seemed to vanish in a mist ; the face
was the last thing I saw. I am quite sure that I was
awake, and saw every object in the room when she was
<^here. (Signed) J. P. Challacombe.
The next statement, with which the above was enclosed, is
from Mrs. Challacombe, the lad's mother.
42, Richmond Road, Montpelier, Bristol.
This is Jack's statement.
Now the queer part is that, at the time, I was visiting
a cousin in Wales, and Jack knew nothing about it.
The evening he speaks of I had returned home, and had
removed all my walking things with the exception of my
boots, dress and watch-chain. My dress Jack had never
seen, and I am not in the habit of wearing my chain
outside my dress. As for the boots they were a pair I
had not worn for years, because they were m the habit
of creaking.
I went to the door to wait for my cousin, who was a
long time saying ''good night" to a friend, and while
there I was thinking deeply of Jack as I had not received
his morning letter. We made an agreement when he
wert to boarding school that we would think of one
another every night and also say "good night."
(Signed) Annie E. Challacombe.
August, 1898.
In reply to further enquiries, Master Challacombe writes
thus :
August 27th, 1898.
I had never had any psychical experience before, and
mother has never experienced anything of the kind either.
As to the door of the bedroom being open, I do not
LXXXVI.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 335
know anything about that. It is situated at the bottom
of the stairs, so practically there is no door to the bed-
room. Most probably it was shut, but I did not hear
it open. As to the date, I remember it was a Smiday
evening. I wrote home to mother the following Saturday,
and she thought it was a strange coincidence, as she was
away, and the date was March 20th. When I was home at
Easter she questioned me about it. J. P. Challacombe.
The points of coincidence here are, first, that the sup-
posed agent was specially thinking of her son, but this
she tried to do every evening. Secondly, she was in fact,
as in the apparition, wearing a dress her son had never
seen, her gold watch-chain outside her dress, which was
unusual, and a pair of creaking boots. Are these points
sufficient to show that the mother's mind was concerned
in the son's experience ?
The next case (L. 1200, Journal, Vol. XVI., p. 205)—
a waking hallucination affecting two senses, sight and
hearing—came to us from Mr. H. Arthur Smith, to whom
all the witnesses concerned were intimately known. The
percipient, Mr. Laurence Orchard, was in London on
Christmas Day, 1913. His mother, whose phantasm he
saw, was away from home, staying with another son
in Canada. The percipient writes :
(1200.)
December 29th, 1913.
On Christmas Day at 12.50 p.m. I was in the bathroom,
when I heard footsteps and doors being opened and
closed quite distinctly, and as I was the only one in the
house it surprised me, so [I] opened the door and looked
out, and to my astonishment I saw Mother (or thought I
did) in a black dress at her bedroom door and her arms
full of parcels. I made an exclamation
—" Mother," I
think—and I think there was some sort of response, but
I forget now, and then all disappeared suddenly. T
then left the house, and told Gerty what a vision I had
had, when I saw her at E 's.
336 Mrs. He7iry Sidgwick.
I suppose Mother having been so much in all our
minds, and no doubt we in hers, made me see " things,"
but it was the noise that attracted my notice first.
"E." was a married sister, whose family gathermg, in
another part of London, they joined on Christmas Day.
Miss Gertrude Orchard gives a very full account of her
brother's report of his experience to her on the same
afternoon, which I do not reproduce here. She adds :
" It was a wonderful experience, and startled him very
much, as it did me when he told me ; in fact, I can't
get it out of my mind. It haunts me night and day
;
but each day, now, I feel happier about it, as [my
brother] G would surely have cabled by this time
if anything serious had happened. ..."
Enquiries were made of Mrs. Orchard, the percipient's
mother, as to her doings on that day. It is clear from
her replies printed in the Journal that she was thinking
very much and in a special manner of the members
of her family in England, and there may have been
a telepathic impulse from her in consequence. But,
on the other hand, sensory hallucinations can occur
without any discoverable external impulse, and there was
apparently nothing significant in the appearance, and
nothing which the percipient could not have contributed
from his own mind.
A somewhat similar case is the following (L. 896, Jonr-
nal, Vol. v., p. 174), but the impression was tactile. It
was sent by the same Professor Thomas Davidson, who
contributed one of the letter cases (see above, p. 310).
The percipient, Mr. Alfred Hicks, an Englishman living
at New York, writes on March 31st, 1889 :
(L. 896.)
There has always been a keen sympathy, and a great
deal of affection existing between my mother and myself,
LXXXvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 337
and early in February I sent over a letter to England to
be given to her on her birthday, the 22nd of February.
I was staying at the time at 64, East llth-street,
N.Y. city. Very early in the morning of that day I
was awakened from my sleep, and seemed to feel quite
distinctly my mother's arms folded romid me. I, too,
seemed to have clasped her in my arms, and her head
was resting on my shoulder. I seemed to be saying
something to her in what I should judge was Itahan,
but as I do not know that language I can only give it
phonetically. [There is no explanation of this imitation
ItaUan.]
I was so impressed with the whole occurrence that I
arose and looked at the time. It was just 3.30 a.m.
I was quite awake when this seemed to occur, and did not
sleep agaia that morning, but lay awake thinking it over.
]\Ir. Hicks calculated that his dream in America occurred
just about the time his mother would receive his birthday
letter, at which moment she would of course think vividly
of him. The approach of the birthday would also, how-
ever, make him think specially of her and perhaps dream
of her. His experience was very likely the continuation
of a dream,
A case of the comparatively rare phenomenon of an
apparition speaking is L. 1073, Journal, Vol. IV., p. 253.
It was carefully recorded within two days of its occurrence
by the percipient, Mr. E. White, an old gentleman of
eighty-seven. He saw by his bed his landlady, with
whom he had lodged for twelve years, and who habitually
called him in the morning ; but instead of her usual
remark she said, " This is a bad day for you." She then
moved towards the door, and he did not stop her to ask
what she meant. By his watch, which he looked at, it
was 2.10 a.m. He found afterwards that his landlady
was seriously iU during the night with influenza and had
even thought she was going to die. It seems quite
certain that she had not left her bed during the night,
and she was confined to bed for several days. Neither
338 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
he nor she can suggest any cause for the appearance, and
she is not aware of having thought of him specially.
The coincidence here is with the first night of acute
illness, but the illness had been coming on for some days.
No idea of illness seems to have been suggested by the
apparition.
The next case (L. 950, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 29) from
the Rev. Soren Pederson, Pastor of the Scandinavian
Church of Melbourne, Austraha, presents a rather unusual
type of hallucination. He writes :
(L. 950.)
January 12th, 1892.
I saw a very dear friend, about 70 years old, living
in Christiania, at 7 o'clock in the afternoon, when walking
about a year ago with some Austrahan friends in one of
the streets of Melbourne. I saw his face as in prayer,
and quite suddenly and near, so I did almost touch him.
I was talking of singing with my friends, as we were
going to practice at the time. I was quite well and have
never had hallucinations or anything lilie this before or
later. It was daylight and quite full of passers-by and
vehicles, etc., in the street.
I had not seen him since a year before, but it struck
me so vividly that I wrote home to Christiania, Norway,
asking what did friend G. at that hour (subtracting the
9 hours we are before here in Melbourne) and got the
answer :
" Praying very intensely for you and your mission
in Melbourne."
Two [other persons were present] who saw nothing and
were quite outside the whole incident.
I put this among ambiguous cases because I do not
think the evidence for the coincidence, which is given
in the Journal, quite conclusive. Mr. Pederson's letter
to his parents had been lost, and so had Mr. G.'s notes
fixing the date of what seems to have been a kind of
prayer meeting among a few friends. Still some pains
were taken at the time to estabhsh the fact of the
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 339
coincidence ; and the praying seems to have been some-
thing special, not an everyday occurrence. The pro-
babihty is, I think, that this was a genuine case of
telepathy.
In another case (L. 962, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 165) the
coincidence does not seem, on the face of it, to be so
marked. A gentleman, Mr. L. S. M. Munro, sitting at
his writing table in a room looking out on a public
thoroughfare, saw the face of a child friend looking in at
the window. No real person was there, nor apparently
could have been. He wrote at once to the child, and
heard from her and her mother that just about the time
of the apparition they had been having a conversation
about him, which was unusual. First-hand evidence from
them is not forthcoming.
In another case (L. 1198, Journal, Vol. XVI., p. 149),
which must, I think, be regarded as ambiguous, the
percipient's experience seems to have been of the nature
of a vision (see above, pp. 243, 248), though it is not quite
easy to understand from the description what it exactly
was, or what was the relation of the phantasm to sur-
rounding objects. The percipient says : "I foimd myself
sitting up in bed and lighting the candle. And then
I saw an old woman in bed and I was quite conscious
that she was dying." The face was clearly seen but not
recognised. It was afterwards learnt that an old friend
of the percipient's hostess, not known to the percipient,
was very ill at the time. Sickness and pain had set in
that night and she died less than thirty-six hours later.
When the vision occurred her illness was unknown to
anyone in the house where the percipient was, and if
there was telepathy it must, it would seem, have been of
an indirect kind, coming through the non-perceptive
hostess to the percipient.
The next case (L. 1156, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 27) is
interesting as an apparition, but ambiguous from the
telepathic point of view, for the supposed agent's contem-
porary appearance and occupation was ordinary enough
340 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
for the correspondence with the apparition to be plausibly
attributed to chance, and there is no evidence that her
mind was at the time in any way directed to the per-
cipient. The interest of the case lies in the movement,
the persistence, and the mode of disappearance of the
apparition, and in the fact that the dog may have been
a co-percipient. He certainly either simultaneously saw
something or was affected as if he had by the emotion
and behaviour of the percipient. The case was received
through Mr. Andrew Lang, the percipient, Miss B. H.
Grieve, being his niece. She wrote the following account
in a letter to her uncle :
(L. 1156.)
Skelfhill, Hawick, N.B., August 8th, 1906.
... I have been staying here since August 4th. On
Monday, 6th, I went up the Pen and for the first time in
my life saw a '
ghost !
'
Turk, the old Dandie Dinmont,
was with me ; and Mrs. R., a Swiss lady also staying
here, had said she would go too, but it was hot, and in
the end she stayed at home. Turk and I went very
slowly, taking many rests on account of his short legs
and shorter breath, and the grass and brackens were long
and strong. Our last stop was where the Pen suddenly
takes up for its rocky top very steeply. I sat with my
back against the dyke facing the steep part, and Turk
lay panting beside me. I was thinking of a beautiful
cleckitig of grouse we had just disturbed—the two parent
birds and five yoang ones clapped about four yards from
us. Turk did not see them at first and I stood perfectly
still watching, they were so pretty. Then Turk winded
them and threw up his head, and of course with the
movement the birds were off like a whirlwind. This
just to show you my train of thought. Quite suddenly
I saw coming along at right angles to me, a friend. Dr.
H., who crossed with me May, 1905, from America. She
was in a rather short dark blue skirt, white cotton blouse,
no hat, and a stick in her hand—and later, I noticed a
tail of hair beginning to '
come down.' I had heard
about fortnight ago that she had landed in England from
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 341
America and was to sail back Sept. 12, and that she was
going to her home in Cornwall for part of the time-
but when I did not know. I was so surprised I did not
say anything for a second or two till Turk began to growl.
Then I jumped up exclaiming '
Dr. H. !
'
She looked
straight at me, but when I spoke, turned and went on
down the hill—following her own direction and the one
from which I had come. I followed quickly to catch
her up, feeling rather queer because she did not speak,
and / knew she had seen me ! Turk barked and growled
the whole time, but kept close in to my heels and would
not run out as he usually does at strange people or
strange dogs. His hair was all on end and his taU
hooked over his back, as stiff as a poker. I almost
caught up Dr. H., and was just going to put out my
hand to touch her shoulder, vs^hen a big bumble bee
whirled between us and flew right through Dr. H. and she
disappeared.
I certainly did feel queer after that—I was so very sure
it was she and it was such a shock to find there was
nothing. Had it not been for Turk I should have doubted
my senses ; but he was so immistakably disturbed and
angry. I swear I am well—never was better, and have
had nothing stronger to drink than water for over a year.
The exact moment of the apparition I cannot quite give
you, but it was 6.5 p.m. when I sat down, and 6.15 per-
haps a minute or even two minutes after it had disappeared.
I had a pencil and envelope in my pocket and made a
rough note of it there on the top of the Pen, and wrote
it out in detail when I got down here to the house. Of
course I have written (yesterday) to Dr. H. to know
whatever she was doing at that date and hour, and will let
you know her reply—probably bathing at Tmtagel ! . . .
Miss Grieve -wTote later :
September 23rd, 1906.
I was sitting when I first saw the figure, so also was
Turk, though he collected his wits quicker than I, for he
barked before I spoke. Truly I am certain I was not
asleep, though one cannot deny the possibiUty. Dr. H.
342 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
has since stayed with me here, and should by now have
landed in America. She said on that day and hour she
was coming down their hill at Tintagel in the clothes I
described, but with a wet bathing gown on her arm,
which I did not see.
The statement in the last sentence is confirmed by
Dr. H.'s sister.
The percipient in this case was the same Miss Grieve
who shared in the collective crystal vision described above,
p. 48. She afterwards, in 1908, had a curious experience
of seeing a ghostly pointing hand in a church at Stavanger,
her account of which is given in an article by Mr. Andrew
Lang in the Journal, Vol. XIV., p.
65.i The experience
tallied curiously with a story of a pointing ghost in the
same church which she subsequently found in Norwegian
Byways by C. W. Wood, but she had no recollection
whatever of ever having seen or heard the story before.
There are three cases which on the face of them may
have been collective hallucinations caused telepathically
from outside, but in which there is evidential weakness
both concerning the agency and the percipiency. In the
first (L. 844, Jowrnal, Vol. IV., p. 289), if there was an
agent, it was a dog. Mrs. Beauchamp writes to a friend :
(L. 844.)
Last night—Megatherium [a small Indian dog] sleeping
with [my daughter]—I woke, hearing him run roimd my
bedroom. I Imow his step so well. [My husband] woke
too. I said "Listen." He said, "It is Meg." We
lighted a candle, looked well, there was nothing and the
door was shut. Then I had a feeling something was
wrong with the dog—it came into my head he had died
at this minute, and I looked for my watch to see the
time, and then I thought I mxLst go up and see about
him. It was so cold, and it seemed so silly, and while
I was thinking I fell asleep. It must have been some
1 In tliis article Mr. Lang discusses the dog's share in the above
case, and gives another account of a dog sharing in a hallucination,
but it had happened six years previously,
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 343
little time after, someone laiocked at the door, and it
was [my daughter] in agony. " Oh ! mamma, Meg is
dying." We flew upstairs. He was lying on his side
hke dead—his legs stretched straight out hke a dead
thing's. [My husband] picked him up, and for a while
couldn't see what was wrong, for he was not dead. Then
we foimd he had nearly strangled himself—got the strap
of his coat somewhat from imder his stomach and round
his neck. He sorr revived and recovered when we got
it off, and he could breathe freely.
Asked some months later, Colonel Beauchamp said he
had paid so little attention to the circumstance at the
time that he could not undertake to write an independent
account. It is not possible to ascertain whether the
dog's distress had begun at the time of Mrs. Beauchamp's
experience. Even therefore, if it is certain that no real
sound was mistaken for the patter of the dog, the coin-
cidence must remain doubtful.
In another auditory case (G. 277, Journal, Vol. XII.,
p. 54) a strong impression was evidently made on the
two percipients, but the hallucinatory nature of the
sound
—
" a tremendous bang " of an alarming character
on the door of the room—is from the nature of the case
somewhat open to doubt ; and the relation between it
and an external event—^the unknown and unexpected death
some twenty-four hours ^ before of the father of a boy in
the house, but not in the room—is highly conjectural.
The third case (L. 1190, Journal, Vol. XV., p. 289) was
visual. A hospital patient told the nurse in the morning
that he had seen the matron come into the ward in the
night, look at the fire and go out again, and, when
appealed to, a second patient confirmed this. There could
hardly be a mistake of identity, as the matron's uniform
was markedly unlike that of the nurses. The matron was
^ The death occurred in India, and the time correction seems to have
been made the wrong way in the Journal, where it is stated that the
interval between death and the percipient's experience was about
thirteen hours.
344 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
in bed at the time. It was during the coal strike of
1912, and the account came to us through the matron,
who was interested in it because it seemed to reflect the
anxious thought about how to save fuel with which . her
mind was occupied when she went to bed. The coin-
cidence cannot be regarded as a well-marked one, and
moreover the percipients had been lost sight of and the
account of their experience comes from the nurse to whom
they spoke, and is not therefore at first hand.
I come now to ambiguous cases where the difficulty is
to find the agent. The first case I will give (L. 1212,
Journal, Vol. XVIII., p. 51) seems to me a very in-
teresting one. The experience of the percipient, Dr.
George Johnston, was a dream or vision between waking
and sleeping. For the reasons he gives it is, I think,
difficult to doubt that the certainty of his son being dead
which came to him through his experience was due to a
supernormal communication. If this communication came
from his son, the case does not properly belong to this
paper, as the interval between death and phantasm
exceeds the twelve hours' limit adopted. On this hypo-
thesis, however, it is difficult to explain the complicated
symbolism, without any suggestion of direct communication
from the son, through which the fact of his death was
expressed. On the other hand, if we suppose the persons
looking over the kit to be the agents, how was the
telepathic link with the percipient, whose very existence
was probably unknown to them, brought about ? Is it
possible that there was some land of combined agency
involving the dead man and others ? There is no means
of knowing, and we can only record the case as part of
the whole evidence to be considered. Dr. Johnston writes :
(L. 1212.)
23, Seymour Street, Portman Square, W.,
March 15, 1917.
My son, Lieut. Alec Leith Johnston, of the 1st King's
Shropshire L.I., was kiUed at daybreak on Saturday,
April 22nd, 1916.
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 345
At daybreak on the next morning, Easter Sunday,
aboiit 24 hours after his death took place, when I was
lying half awake and half asleep, I had the vision or
dream, an account of which follows.
I saw two soldiers in Idiaki standing beside a pile of
clothing and accoutrements which, in some way, I knew
to be Alec's, and my first feehng was one of anger and
annoj^ance that they should be meddlitag with his things,
for they were apparently looking through them and
arranging them. Then one of them took up a khaki
shirt which was wrapped round something so as to form
a Idnd of roll. He took hold of one end of it and let
the rest drop so that it miroUed itself and a pair of
heavy, extremely muddy boots fell out and banged heavily
on the floor, and something else fell which made a metaUic
jingle. I thought " That is his revolver," but im-
mediately afterwards thought " No, it is too light to be
his revolver, which would have made more of a clang."
As these things fell out on to the floor the two men
laughed, but a sad wistful kind of laugh with no semblance
of mirth in it. And then the words
'
' Alec is dead and
they are going through his kit," were most clearly borne
in upon my mind. They were not spoken and I heard
no voice, but they were just as clear as if I had done so.
And then I became fully awake with these words repeating
themselves in my mind and with the fullest conviction
of their truth which I never lost. I suppose I still tried
to persuade myself that it might not be true, but it was
useless and when the official telegram arrived it only
confirmed what I already knew.
Geoege Johnston.
In a letter of the same date, March 15, 1917, Dr. Johnston
adds the following comments on his statement
:
. . . Two points have to be borne in mind in estimating
the importance of the dream as an intimation of my
son's death and not as a mere coincidence.
(1) He went out to the front in October, 1914, and was
there continuously (with three short leaves) until his
346 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
death on April 22nd, 1916—Easter Saturday. During
these eighteen months I never had any dream or any
impression of his being in serious danger, although I
often knew that he was in the midst of hard fighting
and he was wounded in three places in August, 1915,
at Hooge.
(2) At the time when I had the dream I was under
the impression that his battalion was resting and that they
would not be in the fighting hne until the middle of the
week. Hence my mind was quite easy about him and I
was not feeUng at aU anxious. In the ordinary course of
events they were not due in the trenches mitil the Wednes-
day, but they were unexpectedly called upon on the
evening of Good Friday to move up at once to recapture
a trench which had been taken by the Germans some
days before. It was after having accomplished this, and
whilst the position was being consolidated, that he was
kiUed.
I have never in my hfe had any dream so vivid as
this one was, and when I saw in the Sunday papers
that his battahon had accomphshed this " fine feat," as
they caUed it, I had no doubt whatever that my boy
was dead. When the official telegram came on the
Wednesday I felt that it was hardly necessary to open
it. . . .
I shall always think (as a nephew does to whom I
told my dream on the Simday afternoon), that this vision
was Alec's way of letting me know what had happened.
A minor point that may be worth noticing is that
when I heard the metalhc clink when the shirt unrolled
and let its contents faU on the floor, I at first thought
" That is his revolver," but then immediately thought the
noise was too " jingly " to be made by the fall of a
heavy service Colt such as he had. When his things
came home, however, I found that instead of having a
Colt he had a hght French automatic pistol which, in
falling, would have made exactly such a sound as I
heard.
I do not suppose that his kit was actually being gone
through at the time of my dream, nor do I think that
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 347
it makes much difference whether it were so or not.
But the regimental surgeon (since killed hunself) who
came to see me early in June told me that he beheved
that they really were going through Alec's things about
the time of my dream. George Johnston.
In a subsequent letter he writes :
March 25th, 1917.
. . . The only person whom I told the dream to, before
the arrival of the War Office telegram, was my nephew
who was here on Sunday, the 23rd April [1916].
I enclose the letter which he sent me when he had
definite news of Alec's death.
I also enclose a copy of part of a letter which the
regimental surgeon (since killed) wrote to his father. I
do this m order to show the conditions under which the
attack was made, especially as to mud.
One does not want to read too much into such an
experience, but I have often thought that what I saw
had a certain amount of symbohsm in it. The fact
that the boots which feU out of the roUed-up shirt were
so exceedingly muddy, and that the other thmg which
dropped out was, as I at first thought, his revolver,
pomt to the terribly muddy conditions of the attack and
to the fact that it was an attack, for otherwise the revolver
Avould not have been carried. But this is a minor point.
George Johnston.
The letter from Dr. Johnston's nephew, Mr. N. C. Reid,
[to which reference is made above, began as foUows :
3Iay 4, 1916.
I hear that Alec has died at Ypres. Your dream has
come true. Alec appears to have been trying to let
you loiow. ... N. C. Reid.
The reference in the above letter to Dr. Johnston's dream
imphes that Mr. Reid had heard of it before he heard of
Lieut. Johnston's death, but we asked also for an independent
statement from Mr. Reid that Dr. Johnston had related his
dream to him on the day on which it occurred, April 23,
348 Mrs. Heyiry Sidgwick. [part l
1916, before Dr. Johnston himself Imew of its verification.
In reply Sir. Reid wrote as follows : i
2/7 Essex Rbgt., Harrogate, Yorks.,
April 3, 1917.
I have been asked by my uncle, Dr. George Johnston,
to send you a statement to the efi'ect that he told me of
the dream or vision which he had of his son's death
before actual confirmation.
This I can do.
I was spending the afternoon of Easter Sunday last
year (Ajml 23, 1916) at his house, and while at tea he
came in from paying a professional visit somewhere.
After tea he spoke to me of his dream. I regret to
say I cannot remember all he said, but I do recollect
his saying he saw two officers looking over and packing
his son's kit. He was angry at theii' meddhng, but it |,
suddenly dawned upon him that his son was dead. (
Whether Alec Johnston appeared in the dream I forget.
Some days afterwards I heard that Alec Johnston was
dead, confirmation having reached him, Dr. Johnston,
on a date after the 23rd April. N. C. Reid.
As regards the circumstances under which Lieut. Johnston
lost his life, Ave print below extracts from the letter to which i
Dr. Johnston refers on March 25, written by the regimental
surgeon :
i
April mth, 1916.
. . . You will have seen by the papers about the
gallant attack the Btn. made the other night to retake
some trenches lost by another Btn. It was as the Army
Commander said, " A magnificent feat of arms," and you
can guess what the higher command thought of it when
they honoured the regiment by mentioning them by
name—an honour which has only been paid twice aU
the time out here. Unless one is on the spot though one
could not realise the conditions imder which the attack
was made or the apparently hopeless job it seemed. I
don't think any other Btn. could have done it. The
mud, to take one point only, was so deep that the men
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 349
had to throw themselves down and crawl—putting their
rifles and bombs ahead a few feet and then struggling
up to them. Of course the rifles were so covered with
mud that they could not shoot, so the men just struggled
on till they could use the bayonet. We had men utterly
engulfed in the mud and suffocated. It was a glorious
achievement, and the cost was heavy. . . . Johnston—
•
who used to write "At the Front" in Punch—was shot
through the heart gallantly superintendiiag his company
consolidating the captured position. As dawn broke he
was so busy with so much to see to that he would not
take cover, but kept on walking from end to end of the
trench over the top to save time. He was picked off by
a sniper. T. I.
La a letter to Dr. Johnston from one of Lieut. Johnston's
fellow -officers, giving an account of his death, the muddy
condition of the ground is agam emphasised. He writes :
May 7, 1916.
... As you know the conditions were simply a-wdul.
Pitch dark, and wading up to our waists in mud. . . .
The next case (L. 1206, Journal, Vol. XVII., p. 212) is
again an experience at the moment of waking. Mrs.
Fuller-Maitland wrote to her brother, Sir Lawrence Jones,
on April 25, 1916 :
(L. 1206.)
On Friday afternoon [April 21, 1916] I was very tired
and went to he down about 3.30. I fell asleep for a
few minutes, and as I woke up I had a distinct vision
of the big room in the R.A. and Edward's [Mr. Fuller
Maitland] picture hanging on the left of the door as you
go in from the second room. I came domi and said to
E., "Your picture is in and is hung in the big room high
up on the left of the door." The next morning he got
his in-notice, and yesterday he went up for varnishing day
and fomid his picture in the big room on the left of the
door high up ! I saw the room as plainly as possible,
350 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
and it was quite empty, two or three men in it and
no red velvet sofas. Mx. Powles says they judge the
pictures in that room and that probably the sofas are
removed. [It has been ascertained that this conjecture
is right.]
Sir Lawrence Jones corroborates Mrs. Fuller-Maitland's
statement, as follows :
39, Harrington Gardens, S.W., June 2, 1916.
The i^icture is hung on the right of the door from
Room No. 2, as you enter, but on the left as you look
at [it] from the big room itself. My sister says that
she seemed to be standing at the end of the room and
that the picture seemed to her about a third of the Avay
down the wall. This is about correct.
Lawrence J. Jones.
Li reply to a request for a corroborative statement, Mr.
Fuller-Maitland wrote :
Wood Rising, Rye, Sussex, June 10, 1916.
I am sending, as you request, an independent accoimt
of my wife's veridical dream. On Good Friday after-
noon [April 21, 1916] my wife told me that she had just
had a vision of my larger picture (I sent another which
was also kept back but not hung) hung on the right of
the door of the large room, as you enter, and rather
high u]). I asked her to put her impressions down in
writing, which unfortunately she did not do, but she told
Mr. Powles in my presence. It was, as I told her at
the time, extremely unlikely that I should be hung in the
coveted large room, if Inmg at all, especially as the
picture is relatively small.
The following morning I received my varnishing ticket,
and on Monday went straight to the place she mentioned,
where I saw my picture. Edward Fuller-Maitland.
Mr. Powles also corroborates.
It is unfortunate that Mrs. Fuller-Maitland's original
letter leaves it doubtful whether she meant to the left
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 351
of the door as you pass through it from the second room
to the big room or as you face it from the big room.
But her subsequent account to her brother seems to make
it clear that in the dream she looked at the door from
the large room. In any case she was right as to which
of two pictures was hung, in which room, and which wall
of that room. But from whom did the impression come 1
The case somewhat resembles the dreams about the date
of a brother's appointment and place in examination
given in Chapter II. (P. 269, p. 144, and L. 1127, p. 147).
A very odd case of this clairvoyant kind (L. 1119,
Journal, Vol. IX., p. 227) I will describe briefly. It
came to us from Mrs. E. Thompson, who, however, only
knew the percipient, a Mrs. Hodgson of Shepherd's Bush,
slightly. The account, written by Mrs. Thompson and
signed by Mrs. Hodgson and her daughter, is dated
June 12th, 1899, and relates to a dream in October, 1897.
A burglary had occurred at Mrs. Hodgson's house on
September 30tli, 1897, and among other things a smaU
papier-mache box which she valued had been taken.
About a week later she dreamed she went into the coal
ceUar and found it hidden amongst the fine coal. She
told her daughter of the dream the next morning, but it
seemed so absurd that no search was made. In August,
1898, Mr. Hodgson went into the cellar to see how much
coal there was, and found amongst the fine coal the lost
box wrapped in a newspaper of the date of the burglary.
Had somebody played a trick ? Or had Mrs. Hodgson
subconsciously noticed the box in its hiding place before
her dream ? Or what had happened ? We know too
little of the circumstances to judge.
The following case (M.Cl. 87, Journal; Vol. VI., p. 264)
which came to us through the American Branch, if it was
not merely a remarkable coincidence, takes us from
matters of purely private concern to an event which was
also, one may say, one of public interest. But this does
not seem to help us to find the agent, or to explain the
nature of the supernormal perception. The account to be
352 Mrs. Henry Siclgioich,. [part
quoted was first published in a newspaper and afterwards
signed by the percipient. Later Dr. Hodgson obtained the
corroboration of members of the percipient's family to his
having told them of his experience before the news of
the explosion came.
(M. CI. 87.) :
,
,
The bank at Coldwater, Michigan, was robbed about the
middle of February, 1892, of $20,000 by the blowing up
of the safe with dynamite. The following statement
appeared in a Coldwater newspaper of March 16, 1892,
and was afterwards signed as correct by Mr. S. P.
Williams :
S. P. Williams, a large stockholder in the Coldwater National
Bank, lives at Lima, Lid. [thirty miles distant from Cold-
water]. While asleep at his home during the night upon
which the bank was robbed, he awoke under the impression
that he had been startled by a heavy explosion. So vivid
was the impression left that he got up, dressed himself, and
wallced all through the business portion of Lima lookiiig for
evidences of a big explosion. Of course he fomid none, and
later ascertained that he awoke at the same time at which
the vault in the Coldwater bank was blown open.
Members of Mr. Williams's family testify that he told
them of his impression before the news of the explosion
came.
There remain cases under this head furnished by two
percipients—each of whom had on two occasions dreams
concerning public events in the war without apparently
any traceable private reason. First (L. 1201, Journal,
Vol. XVI., p. 306) Miss " Ann Jones " (pseudonym), who
has sent us other telepathic experiences (see above,
pp. 317, 330), on August 6th, 1914, from 8.30 p.m. to 9,
and again on Sept. 5th, 1914, from 2.30 p.m. to 7, fell
into a heavy swoon-like state between sleeping and waking
unlike anything she had experienced before. During this
she had each time a dream or impression of a sinking
Lxxxvi.] Spontaneous Cases : Impression Externalised. 353
ship. The notes in her diary run " Had a bad dream of
a ship sunk," " Had a dreadful drowning sleep," for the
two dates respectively ; and friends testify that she told
them she had dreamt of a sinking ship. On August 6th
H.M.S. Amphion struck a mine and foundered at 7.30
a.m.—that is, about thirteen hours before Miss Jones'
dream. This was announced by the Admiralty that
evening, but not known to Miss Jones or her friends.
On September 5th, at 4.30 p.m., H.M.S. Pathfinder struck
a mine and foundered very rapidly. This was probably
before or about the time of Miss Jones' dream. These
two disasters were, I understand, the only two which had
befallen the British fleet in the war up to that date.
The heavy sleep seems rather to have been the oppor-
tunity for the impression to emerge than itself caused by
the impression, for it began long after the disaster on
August 6th and two hours before it on Sept. 5th. At the
same time it is odd that this peculiar physical condition
should, so far as we know, have occurred on these
occasions only.
In the other case (L 1214, Journal, Vol. XVIII., p. 92)
Miss M. S. Wilkinson on two occasions (Aug. 21-22/17 and
Sept. 2-3/17) dreamt vividly of an air-raid on a night
when oiae actually took place at a distance, but when
there was no special reason to expect one. At the same
time, air-raids were fairly frequent, so that the coincidence
does not seem very striking, and I only mention this case
for completeness.
354 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
CHAPTER IV.
Collective and Reciprocal Cases without Evidence
OF ANY Agency external to the Percipient.
§ 1. Similar and Simultaneous Dreams.
In this final chapter I have put together cases in which
two or more persons have at the same time spontaneous
psychical experiences—either hallucinations or dreams
—
which seem to be related to one another, but where no
evidence of any agency outside the two percipients exists.^
When this happens—when two persons have nearly similar
dreams or hallucinations without traceable external cause,
normal or supernormal—it can hardly be attributed to
chance, and we seem driven to suppose that they have
influenced each other either by suggestion through the
senses, or telepathically—one being agent and the other
percipient ; or both acting in both capacities so that the
telepathic influence is mutual.
In most of the cases we have to examine, the two
persons concerned were in the same room, or otherwise
near each other, which makes it specially important to
consider whether they can have influenced each other
through the senses. In similar and simultaneous dreams,
for instance—which I propose to take flrst—it does not
1 There are collective cases, it will be remembered, not fulfilling
these conditions. A collective crystal vision, not spontaneous, has
been given in Chapter I. (L. 1126, p. 48). And collective cases where
more or less evidence of external agency is adduced have been discussed
under their appropriate heads. They are : Simultaneous dreams,
L. 1210, p. 268, L. 1138, p. 271 ; Collective apparitions, L. 1159, p. 194,
L. 1190, p. 343 ; Non-vocal sounds collectively heard, L. 1141, p. 242,
L 1151, p. 242, L. 844, p. 342, G. 277, p. 343.
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 355
seem impossible that in some cases where the dreamers
are sleeping together and the element common to the two
dreams is sufficiently simple, a sound or movement made
by one dreamer might suggest the dream to the other.
And, of course, in any case where suggestion through
the senses can be regarded as an adequate cause for the
similaritj^ of two dreams or hallucinations, no room is left
for evidence of telepathy, even if telepathy has occurred.
Whether suggestion through the senses seems a likely
cause in any of the dreams that follow I must leave the
reader to judge.
The first case (L. 835, Journal, Vol. IV., p. 220) came
from Mr. and Mrs. H., who do not wish their names to
be published. The dreams took place in July, 1887, and
the account was sent to us in August.
(L. 835.) '
I dreamt that I was walking in Richmond Park with
my husband and Mr. J. I saw notices put on several
trees to the effect that " In consequence of the Jubilee
Lady R. wUl give a garden party on the 24th of Jime."
I remarked to my husband that I hoped she would invite
us. My husband said that he hoped she would not do
so, as it would be extremely difficult to get back to town.
Mr. J. then said, " Oh, I wUl manage that for you,"
and struck a blade of grass with his stick, upon which
a carriage drove ujd. I then awoke and my husband
said, " I have had such a vivid dream. I dreamt we
were walking in Richmond Park, and I was told that
Lady R. was going to have a party. We were invited,
and I was very much troubled in my mind as to how we
should get home, as the party was at 10, and the last
train went at 11, when my friend J., who was walking
with us, said, '
Oh, I will manage that for yoi^.'
"
(Signed) M. H. and J. B. H.
In the next case (L. 965, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 169),
which came through the American Branch, the coincidence
is less striking, because the main subject of the dreams
356 Mrs. Henry Sidgioick. [part
was a likely one to arise in the minds of both dreamers.
Moreover, the records were made about two years after
the dreams. I wiU give the case briefly, omitting corro-
boration and the second dreamer's account.
(L. 965.)
Mr. Armstrong Avrites to Dr. Hodgson :
Lehma^tn's, La., March 20th, 1893.
I was staying at the house of a young friend of mine,
who at the time was infatuated with a young lady in
the neighbourhood. His joarents, as well as myself, were
opposed to the alliance, and our conversation would often
centre on the subject. One night I dreamed that he was
determined to marry the girl. Everything was prepared,
and I remember hurrying off to the place where the
ceremony was to take place. I even forgot to jiut on
my coat. I found him in a back room of the house,
where I also saw his father, vainly trying to change his
mind. I caUed my young friend to the side, and talked
to him hke a Dutch imcle, trying to persuade him out
of the notion. Then I left the scene, and went home in
disgust. Now, we were sleepmg in the same room and
in the same bed, and after awaking ua the morning, and
before telling him of my dream, I asked what he had
been dreaming about. He, half smilingly, answered,
" Why, I dreamt that I was about to get married, when
you came rushmg in the house, in shirt-sleeves, and
insisted that the ceremony must not go on."
The unlikely item of the shirt-sleeves in both dreams
makes it probable that they were not independent. Other-
wise they were not quite identical.
The next two cases also came to us through the Ameri-
can Branch. In the first (L. 1162, Journal, Vol. XIII.,
p. 119) we have again different dreams, with an important
common element, which in this case is the central point
of the dreams, namely, the drowning and rescue.
LXXXVI.] Collective and Recijn'ocal Cases. 357
(L. 1162.)
June I8lh, 1899.
Noticing your address in the N.Y. Sunday Journal of
even date, I write to tell you of an instance of telepathy
in which, as an additional straw, your Society may find
interest.
Li the summer of '97, one night while sleeping I
dreamed that I was in an old, abandoned and ruined
saw-mill, which was built on timbers out over a river.
The plank floor was gone except for now and then a
plank, and the water, about eight feet below, looked
black, stagnant and slimy. There were just enough
planks and timbers left to cause a " creepy," shadowy
darkness to prevail below. There were two ladies came
to look at the place, and being afraid to trust the planks
for footing, I took one on each arm, and was proceeding
out to the further end of the ruin, over the water to
where the old saw was, when something white glimmering
in the water below through the dusk attracted my atten-
tion, and I saw it to be the face of my wife, Mrs. D.,
just showing above the water, with her large eyes looking
into mine, but without a motion or sound. I immediately
jumped into the water and caught her round the shoulders
and neck to support her, and at that instant was roused
from sleep by a smothered cry from Mrs. D. at my side.
Intuitivelj'^ I knew how matters were and asked her
(after shaking her to awaken her) what she had dreamed
to frighten her.
She said that she was dreaming that she was in the
water drowning and was trying to reach up her arms to
help herself, and cried out as I heard her. . . .
Mrs. D. wrote to Dr. Hodgson :
June 22nd, 1899.
In reply to your letter of the 20th to Mr. Davis, relating
to our " dreams," I will relate my exj^erience as perfectly
as possible.
The first sensation I remember in my dream was of
finding m3^self sinking in a pool, a large pool, or pond
358 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
of water by the roadside, and of throwing up my arms
above the water and trying to scream for help, and just
as I felt my hand grasped by some one, I could not
tell by whom, to help me, Mr. Davis spoke and I awoke.
T sometimes have unpleasant dreams and make a sUght
sound, when he always wakens me, but we both thought
it remarkable when on this occasion we found that there
was perfect coincidence in the time, even to a second,
and almost perfect coincidence in the subject matter of
our dreams.
Mr. D. sent to Dr. Hodgson on July 3rd, 1899, an account
of an apparently telepathic impression that had occurred to
him a few weeks before in regard to the death of a friend.
He had had a strong impression of her presence, and that
she told him she was dead. He informed his wife of this
at the time, and they heard later the same day that the
lady had died about 24 hours before the impression occurred.
They knew, however, that she had been seriously ill, though
it was believed that she was then recovering.
In the next case (L. 1161, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 118),
sent to Dr. Hodgson by Dr. M. L. Holbrook, the dreams
seem to have been identical as far as they both went.
The following account of them was given by Mr. E. J. to
his brother, Mr. G. J., an Associate of the American
Branch :
(L. 1161.)
January 6, 1907.
My bed stands Avith the head against the west waU of
the room, head next the door. Annie's bed stands
directly opposite, head against the east wall, with a
space of about six feet between them.
I dreamed on Friday night [January 4th] that mother
came into the room, passed beside my bed, looked at me
and went to the foot of Annie's bed. The impression
was so strong that it awoke me.
I told my dream at breakfast and Annie remarked,
" How queer that is ; for I dreamed last night that your
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 359
mother came into the room, leant over the foot of my
bed, with her arms crossed just as she always used to
stand and talk when I was sick. She said that Fred
told her that I did not realise how sick my mother was,
and that she would not live three months, and that
startled me so that I woke up."
About six weeks later Mr. E. J. sent a substantially similar
account direct to Dr. Hodgson, and about this Mrs. J.'s
secretary wrote on March 1, 1901 :
In reply to your letter of Feb. 25, Mrs. J. directs me
to say that she has nothing to add to or change to
make in the statement made by Mr. J.
As regards the content of the dreams Mr. J.'s mother had
died in 1883 and his brother Fred, whom his wife had never
known, in 1858. Mrs. J.'s mother was aged 83 aivd had
been expected to die at almost any time during the previous
year, though at the moment she was better. She did actually
die six months later on June 12th, 1901.
There is in our collection one case which may con-
veniently come in here (L. 1181, Journal, Vol. XIV., p. 380),
in which one percipient sees an apparition, while the other,
a child of 2| sleeping in the same room, has a vivid
dream about the same person. It was sent to us by
Mr. J. H. Clapham of King's College, Cambridge, who, in
sending us Mrs. Clapham's account of the incident, says :
(L. 1181.)
Its maiii interest is that my appearance had no
significance. I was comfortably asleep in a Swiss inn.
Fortunately my diary has a note of the excellent night
that I spent. . . .
Mrs. Clapham wrote to her husband :
65, Bateman Street,
Cambridge, Wednesday, Aug. 3, 1910.
What were you doing this morning between 5 a.m. and
5,15 ? Such a strange thing happened. To the best of
360 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
my belief I was awake, for I had just been putting some
lotion on the restless [Alison] and heard 5 o'clock strike.
I turned round to face the wuidow, to try and get off
to sleep, and there were you standing by the bed looking
down on me. I said, " Jolm, what are you doing here ?
"
but you said nothing, and walldng round the bed you
bent over Alison's cot and looked at her, and she stirred
restlessly in her sleep and said, " Daddy, Daddy, I can't
'member." Then you came round and looked at me
again, and by that time I was terrified, for I thought
something must have happened to you. I said, " What
have you come for ?
" and tried to touch you, but you
retreated towards the window and disappeared. At that
moment AUson woke and popped her head over her cot.
I gave her her biscuit and looked at the clock ; it was
5.15. I comforted myseK by reflecting that you could
hardly have begim to climb yet, but I haven't felt com-
fortable aU day. When Ahson came into my bed, she
said, " Daddy was mowing the grass when I waked up." |
I told her you were away in Switzerland and not mowing I
the grass, but she said, " I k7iow he was mowing the
grass, 'cause I seed him." And again at brealdast, in
the middle of demanding sugar, she suddenly said, " I
know Daddy was mowing, I seed him doing it when I
waked up." So if I was dreaming, she must also have j
been dreaming of you at the same time. ... , -
If there was telepathy here, it was apparently between
Mrs. Clapham and her little girl. But there is no evidence
that their experiences were alike except in relating to the
same person.
§ 2. Collective Visual Hallucinations unrecognised.
Coming now to simultaneous waking experiences, there
are in our collection a good many cases of apparently
sensory hallucinations shared by two (or more) percipients
who are together, but where there is no evidence pointing
to agency external to both. From one point of view sug-
gestion by word or gesture may seem a more likely
explanation of the coincidence in the case of waking
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Beciprocal Cases. 361
hallucinations than of dreams, for, as already remarked
in another connexion, the content of a waking hallucina-
tion is usually simpler—less elaborate—than that of a
dream. If, for instance, A sees an apparition of C in
his usual garb and exclaims " there is C," the remark
would probably at once call up in B's mind a more or
less distinct and similar mental image of their common
friend C, and it is conceivable that this mental image
might externalise itself in space. This possibility must be
kept in mind in the case of collective hallucinations, and
especially of recognised apparitions. But, on the other
hand, we are less suggestible awake than asleep, and to
quote Gurney's words, which are I think as true now as
when they were written, "I do not know of any instance
where the sane and healthy A, simply by saying at a
casual moment to the sane and healthy B, '
There is such
and such an object '
(not really present and not capable
of being imposed as an illusion on some object really
present), has at once caused the object to be conjured up
in space before B's eyes. In the most extreme case that
has come to my knowledge, where something like this has
proved possible, very strong insistence and repetition on
A's part, of the sort that a mesmerist employs when
seeking to dominate a subject's mind, are needed before
the impression develops into sensory form. In cases,
therefore, where A has liimseK had a hallucination of
which he has spoken at the moment, and B has shared
it, it is too much to assume at once that B's experience
must have been exclusively due to the verbal suggestion ;
for if A's mere suggestion can produce such an effect on
B at that particular moment, why not at other moments
when he suggests the imaginary object, without having
himseH seen it ? ^ None the less, of course, ought the
hypothesis of verbal suggestion to be most carefully con-
sidered, in relation to the special circumstances of each
case, before any other hypothesis is even provisionally
^ It seems possible, though I thmk Gurney does not mention it, that
verbal suggestion by A when startled by seeing an apparition might
have a stronger hallucination-producing effect than the same suggestion
from A unstartled and merely experimenting.
362 Mrs. Henry Sidgioick. [part
admitted " (see Phantasms of the Living, Chap. XVIII.,
§3).
But there is a source of error (also discussed by Gurney,
and referred to by him in the passage just quoted) to
which dreams are not hable, for which each case of
collective waking sensorj^ hallucination has to be carefully
examined ;
namely, the possibility that what is seen or
heard is some real object misinterpreted, or some real
person mistaken for another. This is a danger which,
while it to some extent attaches to waking hallucinations
generally, is of special importance in the case of collective
hallucinations such as we have now to consider, because
the interest of them depends entirely on their being
really hallucinatory, and at the same time the fact that
the experience is shared is itself a reason for suspecting
that it has a real basis in some external object.
For this reason appearances seen in a bad light, or at
a considerable distance, are apt to be of little evidential
value, and I am disposed at once to dismiss two cases
on this ground—the ground namely that though something
odd happened we have not enough information to enable
us to judge what its nature was.
In the first (G. 200, Journal, Vol. V., p. 221), when " it
was rapidly getting dusk" (7.15 p.m. on Sept. 22), a father
and daughter riding together in a lane crossed at right
angles by another lane saw pass across in front of them,
as it might be along the other lane, a man with a slouch
hat and " an old-fashioned shepherd's frock." He dis-
appeared as they thought behind the corner of, or possibly
through, the hedge, but though they rode on quickly to
the corner they saw nothing more of him and nothing to
account for the appearance. There was a vague tradition
that the place was haunted. The case quoted in Pro-
ceedirigs. Vol. X., p. 100, may advantageously be compared
with this.
In the other case (L. 1148, Journal, Vol. XII., p 121)
on a " very misty " evening in the middle of May in the
north of England two ladies saw as they thought a cyclist
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Beciprocal Cases. 363
coming towards them on a moorland road. He suddenly
disappeared, and they thought he might have got into
the ditch or have fallen, but no man or machine was to
be found.
Another case (G. 241, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 145) which
also occurred in a very poor light is, I think, more
curious and important, and deserves a fuller mention. The
experience took place about a year and a half before it was
recorded. The account of it was sent to us by Mr. T.
Barkworth, now dead, who was at the time a Member of
the Society and of its Council. He took down the
evidence of the percipients, whom he calls Lady and
Miss B., from word of mouth, and they attested the
account with their signatures. The house where the
occurrence took place was in a London square, and as
to light he says, " There is only a gas lamp opposite the
house, and the windows are provided with blinds of some
thick stufE material, so that it seems difficult to under-
stand how the figure was seen so clearly, unless it was to
some extent self-luminous." Sounds (unaccounted for) as
of footsteps and other noises had frequently been heard
in the house, but I omit the account of these as it is
stated that " no importance was attached to them till
after the visual experience." This is described as follows :
(G. 241.)
Lady B. was sleeping in her own room . . . and IMiss
B. was sleeping in another bed at her side. In the
middle of the night both ladies suddenly started up wide
awake without any apparent cause, and saw a figure
in a white garment, which might have been a night dress,
with dark curly hair. The room was not quite dark,
although there was no artificial hght except from the
gas lamp in the square. No fear nor any physical
sensation was experienced. The figure was standing in
front of the fireplace, over which was a mirror. The
position was such as to show the face in quarter profile
and to intercept its own reflection from the mirror. It
was a female figure, with hair down the back. The
364 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
face, so far as shown, was clearly visible. The two
ladies both spoke and sprang out of bed to the doors,
which they found locked. On turning round again the
figure had disappeared.
Mss B. . . . saw the back of the figure and its long
dark hair, but not the face. The face was, however,
clearly reflected in the mirror, and Miss B. saw it there
distinctly. Like Lady B. she woke up suddenly, without
assignable cause. The room seemed hghted up.
It would be natural to regard such an apparition on
suddenly awaking from sleep, if it occurred to a single
percipient, as probably the continuation of a dream image.
But this seems less probable in a collective experience.
For a case resembling this, see Proceedings, Vol. X.,
p. 312, and for one in which one of the percipients
awakes suddenly to share in a waking hallucination of the
other, see Phantasms of the Living, Vol. II. (1st ed.).
Chap. XVIII., p. 204, case No. 323.
One characteristic which, when it occurs, is conclusive
as to an appearance being hallucinatory is its vanishing
before the eyes of a percipient. I mean by vanishing
that it disappears, either gradually or suddenly, while the
percipient is actually looking at it. I do not mean what,
I think, happens more often, that it disappears behind
some object, or that the percipient having, as in the last
case, turned his eyes away sees nothing when he looks
back. There are three cases of collectively seen appari-
tions which resemble the last in having occurred indoors
in a poor light and in not having been i^ecognised, but
which differ from it in having apparently vanished at j|
least for one percipient.
|
In the first of these (L. 842, Journal, Vol. IV., p.
286) :
(L. 842.)
'
The percipients were sons of Mr. EUwood, a chemist residing
at Leominster. From an account previously sent by Mr.
lxxx\t:.] Collective mid Reciffocal Cases. 365
Ellwood, sen., it appeared that the percipients were respectively
19 and 23 years of age. The brothers Avere sleeping together,
and the elder of the two was the writer of the following
account. The first experience occurred on December 20th,
1889.
LEOMrNSTEB, February I2fh, 1890.
The following is just a short account of what I saw
on the first occasion mentioned. It was, I think, about
6 a.m., just getting Hght. I had been awake a short
time and I suddenly heard the door open (the door was
on the jar aU night), and saw a short figure in a night-
shirt walk in and stand looking at me by the side of
the bed. I distinctly heard a sound of breathing or
rusthng of the nightshii-t, and I thought at fii'st that it
was my father walking in his sleep. Then I thought it
might be a burglar (although why a burglar should be
dressed in a nightshirt I don't know), so I said, " What
is it ? " then I jumped out of bed and rushed to catch
hold of the figure, when it vanished. My brother also
saw the figure standing at the bedside, and after I jumped
out of bed he saw the figure ghde round towards the
foot of the bed and then vanish. I did not see it after
I jumped out of bed. We both searched well but could
find nothing.
On the second occasion it was about the same hour
in the morning and on the same day of the week. The
bedroom door A\^as shut all night on this occasion, and I
was Ijdng awake when I saw the door open and some one
peep round. I thought it was one of our assistants come
for a lark to puU me out of bed (as we do those kind
of tricks sometimes) ;
however, I lay stiU, and then the
door seemed to open wide, so I leaned out of bed to
give it a hard push and everything vanished, and I
nearly fell out of bed, for the door was shut as when I
went to bed. My brother was asleep this time and saw
nothing.
I can positively swear that this is as correct an account
as I can give, and I distinctly saw what I have mentioned.
I was awake both times (not dozing, but distinctly awake).
366 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [PAET
I was also in good health and had not been up late,
etc., the night before. I may add that before this
occasion I did not beheve in ghosts, or anything in that
way. I really and truly thought a man was in the
room, and I intended collaring him when I rushed at
him.
W. M. Ellwood.
P.S.—I only saw the head of the second figure, but
it was, as near as I could tell, hke the first figure. —W. E.
To this account the younger Mr. Ellwood adds :
I also saw and heard all my brother did.
(Signed) M. J. Ellwood, Jun.
It occurred to Mr. Ellwood, senior, that the figure might be
connected with his landlord, who was Ijdng ill at the time and
has since died. This gentleman was an intimate friend and
had a special affection for Mr. Ellwood 's younger son. He
is also known to have interested himself in the place during
his last iUness. But no definite coincidence can be made out.
Mr. Ellwood also informed us that his house had the reputa-
tion of being haunted, but the only phenomena observed
appear to have been unexplained noises before the deaths of
several of Mrs. Ellwood's relatives.
Only one of the percipients in this case saw the phan-
tasm vanish, but the hallucinatory character of the
apparition seems pretty clear, and is confirmed by the
second (non-collective) experience of one of the per-
cipients, especially by the effort to shut the ai^parently
open door resulting in reaching out into vacancy.
In the next case (G. 201, Journal, Vol. V., p. 223) the
figure was seen by three percipients and appears to have
vanished before the eyes of at least two of the three.
Mr. Podmore refers briefly to this case in his Apparitions
and Thought Transference but scarcely describes it, and
both this and the two previously quoted cases are
similarly referred to in Proceedings, Vol. X., p. 320.
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 367
(G. 201.)
The place where the following incident occurred is a very-
modern London house. Dr. Kingston, who obtained the
narrative for us, tells us that " the young ladies looked out
for the apparition on the same night of the following year,
but saw nothing." We may assume, therefore, that at any
rate mere expectation was not sufficient to produce the im-
pression.
Juhj 31s^, 1891.
On the night of November 1st, 1889, between 9.30
and 10 jj.m., my three sisters and myseK left our library,
where we had spent the evening, and proceeded upstairs
to our bedrooms. On reaching my room, which is on
the second floor, I and a sister went to the mantelpiece
in search of the matchbox, in order to hght the gas.
I must here explain that my bedroom opens into my
mother's, and the door between the two rooms was
open.
There was no light beyond that which glimmered through
the Venetian bhnds in each room. As I stood by the
mantelpiece I was awe-struck by the sudden appearance
of a figure ghding noiselessly towards me from the outer
room. The appearance was that of a young man, of
middle height, dressed in dark clothes, and wearing a
peaked cap. His face was very pale, and his eyes down-
cast as though deep in thought. His mouth was shaded
by a dark moustache. The face was slightly luminous,
which enabled us to distinguish the features distinctly,
although we were without a light of any Idnd at the
time.
The apparition gUded onwards towards my sisters, who
were standing inside the room, quite close to the outer
door, and who had first caught sight of it, reflected in
the mirror. When within a few inches from them it
vanished as suddenly as it appeared. As the figure
passed we distinctly felt a cold air which seemed to
accompany it. We have never seen it again, and cannot
account in any way for the phenomenon.
368 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
One of my sisters did not see the apparition, as she was
looldng the other way at the moment, but felt a cold
air ; the other two, however, were eye-witnesses with
myself to the fact.
There was no hght of any kind in passage outside the
rooms.
We had not been talldng or thinking of ghosts during
the evening, or reading anything exciting ; neither were
\ve the least nervous.
None of us had ever before been startled by anything
unexpected in the dark or twilight.
It was not hght enough to see each other's faces, as
the only illumination there was came through the Venetian
blinds, which were drawn down.
It was myself, Louisa Du Cane, who first saw the
apparition.
We three sisters who saw it exclaimed at the same
moment, and found we had seen the same thing.
My sister Mary did not see the figure, as she was looking
the other way at the time but felt distmctly, as did
the rest of us, a sensation of cold when the figure
jDassed us.
We did not recognise the figure as anybody we had
ever seen.
We did not afterwards hear of any event that we could
connect with the appearance.
Signed by
Louisa F. Du Cane.
P. A. Du Cane.
August 4dh, 1891.
Answers to questions [asked by Dr. Kingston] resincting
apparition.
Louisa F. Du Cane.
Mrs. Sidgwick Avrites :
The Misses Du Cane kindly allowed me to call on them
on December 2nd, 1891, and showed me the rooms where
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Gases. 369
their experience occurred. The following is a rough plan
of them, the dotted hne showing the course apparently-
taken by the figure.
C D
1 I
— > I
B
I
A, A, A, windows. B, B, B, doors. C, mantelpiece by which Miss
Louisa Du Cane stood, D, mantelpiece with mirror over it, in which
Misses F. and C. Du Cane first saw the figure. E, place where I was
told a bookcase stood at the time of the incident. F, approximate
position of Misses F. and C. Du Cane.
Miss Louisa Du Cane, standing by the mantelpiece of
her room, would have a direct view of anyone standing
by the window of her mother's room, where the figure
first appeared. Her sisters, standing at F, or there-
abouts, Avould have a reflected view, and no direct view
tiU the figure got nearly opposite the glass.
I saw the room in dayhght, but was told that at night
it was to some extent hghted (" hke moonhght ") by the
street lamp opposite. Miss L. Du Cane saw the face
better than the natural hght would have enabled her
to do. Her sisters, I gathered, saw the figure clearly
but not the face. The dress, so far as seen, might have
been that of, say, a purser on board a merchant steamer.
The figure did not suggest to them any person they had
ever seen, and its dress and appearance had no associations
for them. Its arms were held away from the body, so
that they saw the Hght between—about as a man's arms
would be if his hands were in his pockets. They did not
see the hands. I third?; it is doubtful how much of
370 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
detail each lady observed independently at the time,
especially as they were a good deal startled and agitated,
or how much the several impressions may have got defined
and harmonised in recollection afterwards. The figure
seems to have moved quietly towards them from the
window.
There were no curtains, except a white mushn one, nor
other objects making explanation by illusion plausible.
It can hardly have been a real man, because a real man,
having no business there, would not have come towards
them. They beheve, too, that they would have heard a
real man going up or down the stairs, which were at the
time uncarpeted, they having only recently come to the
house. Moreover, had he gone downstairs he would have
been met by Mrs. Du Cane, who came up from the
drawing-room at once on hearing her daughters call out.
There Avas no man hving in the house.
It seems to me to have been a genuine and interesting
case of collective visual hallucination, but a case where
the circumstances admit of the hypothesis that the words
or gestures of the first percipient may have produced the
hallucination in the others by "suggestion." We have,
however, no direct evidence of their being " suggestible
"
in this way, and subsequent attempts to see the ghost
—
sitting in the room in the dark, etc.—produced no result.
Miss M. Du Cane, who did not see the figure, appears to
have been deterred by alarm from looldng in its direction.
In the following case (G. 239, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 135)
the percipients were under the impression that the
grotesque figure they saw, and one of them touched,
vanished through the floor. It is, however, perhaps
possible that the vanishing as well as the figure was in
this case an illusion, and that the appearance was due to i
a combination of moonlight and a light-coloured cat aided
by imagination. The cat is suggested by the green eyes
and the tactile impression, and the noiselessness of the
moving figure is not inconsistent with the idea. At the :,
same time we have no evidence whatever that there was
such a cat about.
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 371
The account I give is that of one of the percipients,
Miss McCaskill, and was enclosed in a letter dated July 25,
1892. We have also an account from the other per-
cipient, and, further, one written in February, 1893, by
Miss Alice Johnson immediately after talking over the
experience with Miss McCaskill, and confirmed by the
latter. These I do not reproduce ;
they will be found
in the Journal. The three accounts are in very fair,
though not absolutely complete, agreement.
(G. 239.)
4, Shakespeare-road, Bedford.
Last summer [August, 1891] I was paying a visit
to some cousins, who were en pension with a German
family, at Cassel. My cousin L. V. [assumed initials]
and I shared a room, known, from the stained window,
as the '
Ritterzimmer. ' Out beds occupied almost all one
side of the room, of which I send a rough plaii [not repro-
duced]. One night we were late going to bed, and were
not in bed till after 11.30. We went on talking for some
time. We were neither of us the least nervous, nor was our
conversation such as to make us so. I remember we were
talking about the opera Robert der Teufel, to which we
were going next day. We had stopped talldng for a few
minutes, and I was lying with my face to the wall, when
I was startled by a scream from my cousin, and, turning
round, saw a tall white figure standing in the room,
near L.'s bed. I cbd not at the time feel frightened ;
my one idea was to find out what strange thing it was.
It turned and came towards my bed, and I distinctly
remember noticing that it made no sound on the polished
wood floor. Its ej^es were green and glistening, but the
rest of the face seemed muffled up. As soon as it was
close to my bed, I seized it, and seemed to take hold of
>> something soft, like flims}' drapery, but whatever it was
seemed dragged from me by some invisible power, and
the thing hteraUy sank into the fioor by my bedside.
L. was in a perfect terror, and her mother, and G. von
i, T., and another friend were startled by the noise, and
came to see what was the matter. We searched every-
372 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
where, but nothing was to be seen. I cannot account
for not feeling afraid of it, especially as afterwards I
heartily wished the night were over. L. knew there was
a legend about our room, and that this ajDparition was
said to come that day once in ten years, but she did
not beheve in it, and I knew nothing at all of the story.
The people who had hved in the house before told Frau
von T. that they had seen something twice in that room.
They had lived there over 20 years ; but Frau von T.
had not been there long enough to test it before. No
one could jjossibly have got into the room, as the door
was a very noisy one, close to the foot of my bed. We
slept in the room for some time, both before and after,
but never saw anjrthing more. As my cousin and I
both saw the " thing," I am at a loss to account for it,
but I should be extremely sorry to sleep in that room
that day ten years. Agnes McCaskill.
In another unrecognised but vanishing case (G. 230,
Journal, Vol. VI., p. 22) the light was somewhat better
apparently than in those so far described, but the appari-
tion was seen out of doors and at a somewhat greater
distance. Mr. Reginald Barber writes :
(G. 230.)
24, LORNB-GBOVE, FaLLOWEIELD, MANCHESTER,
January 2\st, 1891.
In April of last year, while the hght was still good, I
was returning home from a walk with my wife, and when
within a few yards of the gate, which opens into a straight
path leading to the house, both my wife and I saw a
woman pass through the open gate and walk straight to
the house, when, on reaching the door, she disappeared.
I ran to the door, opened it with my latchkey, and
expected in my astonishment to find her inside, for she
seemed to have walked through the door. It all seemed
so real that I at once searched the house, but in vain.
We were the only two people in the street, and did not
see the figure until she entered the gate, when we simul-
taneously exclaimed, "Who is that?" She seemed to
come out of space and go into space again in a most
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 373
marvellous manner. She wore a plaid shawl, and her
bonnet was a grey-black with a bit of colour in it. We
could not remember hearing any sound as she walked,
but otherwise we have never seen anything more appar-
ently substantial. It is impossible for us to conceive how
she could have disappeared if she had been of flesh and
blood.
If only one of us had seen this figure, I should have
thought httle about it, as such cases of hallucination
seem sufficiently common, and may be accounted for by
some physical or mental disturbance ; but the evidence in
this case points to the existence of something exterior
to ourselves.
We are neither of us behevers in ghosts or the like, but
are two ordinary matter-of-fact people.
Reginald Bahber.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Barber wrote as follows :
Deas Sir,—I received your letter this morning, and
[wiU] now . . . reply to your inquiries. " Did I or my
wife see the figure first ?
" My wife points out that I
must have seen the figure first, for she did not see it
until it was well inside the gate. " Was there any
expectation of a visit ?
" Not the least. " Give the
distance of the apparition when it disappeared." A few
yards, I could not say exactly. When I have heard Mrs.
Barber telling friends of our experience, I have noticed
that the figure presented to her mind does not seem
to have been exactly the same as that which was evident
to my mind. That would appear to support your theory
that no real figure existed. Again, Mrs. Barber is sure
she spoke first (though I thought we spoke at once),
and, as she points out, I saw the figure first. This
shows that the figure was not suggested by one to the
other in any ordinary manner.
Mrs. Barber, I trust, ^vill send you an account of our
experience while I am from home.
I shall be glad to answer any further questions if you
think the case caUs for them. Eeginald Barber.
374 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Mrs. Barber T\Tites :
24, LoRNE-GEOVB, Fallowfield ,
January 30th, 1891.
I shall be much pleased to give you my account of
" our ghost."
I may begin by saying that Lorne-grove is a very
quiet thoroughfare of no great length. During April
last year the road was being paved, and consequently
in a very chaotic state—full of loose stones, etc. The
pavement on the opjiosite side to our house was already
laid, so on returning from our walk on the 19th of
that month my husband and I kept on that side of the
road until we were exactly opposite our own gate. Up
to this time we had seen no one in the Grove.
My husband now began to cross the road, bidding me
follow, and take care not to fall on the loose stones. I
did so, naturally looldng down at my feet, until a httle
more than half way across the road, or about 6 yards
from the gate, when on raising my eyes I saw a grey
figure walking up the path to the door. She was then
about a yard inside the gate, and although she had
apjoeared so mysteriously, I felt no surprise, she looked
so thoroughly commonplace and substantial. My husband
saw her enter the gate, so there can be no question as to
which of us saiu her first, but I was certainly the first
to exclaim: "Who is that?" although my husband's
exclamation followed so quickly that they might almost
be considered simultaneous, as indeed I beheve Mr. Barber
described them in his letter to you. I next said :
" Stop
a moment and let us see who it is," but he answered,
"No, it is no good letting her ring," and hurried forward
with his latchkey. The distance from the gate to the
door is 7| yards, and when I first saw the figure I should
be about 6 yards from the gate.
My husband would be at least a couple of yards in
front of me, and as he saw the figure actually turn in
at the gate he had a better view of her shawl and bonnet.
I only saw that she was in grey, and that it was no
one we knew. She walked quietly up the path and then
up the two steps to the door, and I always fancy I saw
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Gases. 375
her raise her hand as though to ring the bell, but of that
I cannot be sure, and then against the dark door she
vanished completely, certainly not more than 4 yards
from where my husband was standing. We were expecting
no visitor, and our thoughts were far away from the
supernatural, for just before crossing the road we had
been saying how hungry we were, and how we should
enjoy our supper.
I took special note of the date and hour, fully expecting
we should hear of some occurrence which nearly con-
cerned us, but nothing has, so far, transpired.
Gertrude Barber.
Mr. Barber wrote later :
24, LORNE-GROVE, FaJLLOWEIELD ,
MANCHESTER,
February &h, 1891.
Mrs. Barber thinks the time we saw the apparition
would be as nearly as possible seven o'clock ; I merely
remember it was about sunset. I am sure it was light
enough to see to read outside, and within there was no
artificial Hght burning. I remember searching the house
by dayhght to find the figure we had seen. It was a
beautiful, clear, calm evening. We do not know that
we have seen anything hallucinatory before or since. If
we saw a figure pass by in the street hke the one we
have described, its naturalness would cause us to make no
observation. Mrs. Barber says she has often thought
she has seen a cat, though perhaps not with the distinct-
ness of nature. Suddenly seeing an object resembling a
cat might, of course, provoke the illusion.
Mr. Barber says that he has sometimes experienced an
auditory hallucination—namely, fancjdng that his wife was
calling him by name from another room so distinctly that he
rose to answer it, but as he reached the door fancied he
heard her caUing him back again. He has heard her call
him in this way three times, but has had no other visual
experience besides the one described above.
Mr. Myers called on Mr. Barber on August 1st, 1891, and
gives the following account of his interview :
Mrs. Henry Sidgiviclc. [part
Aiigust 2nd, 1891.
I saw Mr. and Mrs. Barber yesterday, and inspected
the scene of the apparition. It is quite clear that there
was no real person on the step. When Mr. and ]\Irs.
Barber tixrned into the street, a very short and quiet
one, no one was visible. The figure appeared suddenly,
entering the gate through which you pass over a few yards
of flagged walk and up two steps to reach the front door.
The figure struck Mr. Barber at the time as noiseless.
It is not certain that the figure looked the same to Mr.
and Mrs. Barber. Mr. Barber, who was in front and saw
it best, noticed a check in the shawl. Mrs. Barber did
not look carefuUy at the dress, but took it to be grey.
Both thought the woman a beggar, or something of that kind.
Mr. and Mrs. Barber have been about seven years in
the house. No servant has died there, nor did the figure
resemble the previous occupant.
Neither of them has ever had any other similar experience.
F. W. H. Myebs.
There is one more unrecognised and vanishing case
(L. 827, Journal, Vol. IV., p. 71), and in it, it was the
vanishing which startled the percipients and first made
them think it was not a real man that they were looking
at. Certainly its vanishing for both of them apparently
at the same time and at different distances is difficult to
reconcile with the hjrpothesis either of some optical illusion
or of mistaken identity. On the other hand, a hallucina-
tion which persists for twenty minutes and " throws a
good line " would be a very tmusual one. The case is
one where one specially regrets that the interval between
experience and record was so long as four years, and
wonders whether any error of memory seriously affecting
the interpretation has crept in.
Mr. J. H. Wilkie Ridley, M.R.C.S. Eng., writes on
October 12, 1885 :
(L. 827.)
About the middle of September, 1881, between five
and six in the evening, whilst it was quite Hght, the Rev.
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 611
J. Jones, vicar of Dunston, and myself were fishing the
North Tyne, at the junction of Blindburn with the Tyne,
from a bank of shingle, in length about 80 yards and
about 10 wide, sloping from a grass field to the margin
of the river, with neither trees nor bush in the immediate
vicinity, and after fishing for a short time Mr. Jones
came up to me to ask for a match for the purpose of
lighting his pipe. As we were thus standing together
Ughting our pipes from the same match, I said to him,
" Do you see that man fishing down there ?
" He rc-
phed, " I have had my eye upon him for the last 20
minutes, and as it may be Major-General Allgood, I
think I had better go down and apologise to him lor
the hberty we are taking, as I have not yet been once
to see him this year to ask his permission to fish."
Accordingly Mr. Jones left me for this purpose, and
when he came mthin 15 or 20 yards of the supposed
fisher, the figure suddenly disappeared and seemed to
pass away into nothing, whilst we were both looking on.
Mr. Jones then turned round and looked towards me, but
did not speak until I advanced to A\ithin a few paces of
him, when he said, " Ridley, I hope nothing has happened
at home." We at once proceeded to take down our rods.
Any one visiting the spot would at once see that no
human being would be able to get away without being
seen by us. Let me now describe the figure, as it
appeared to us. Ifc was dressed ^^dth felt hat, dark
pilot jacket, light drab fishing stockings, laced boots.
We never saw the face. The rod was a full-sized salmon
rod, painted black, large brass reel. He was throwing from
over the right shoulder. Mr. Jones remarked that he
was throwing a good hne. I might add that Ave left a
Mr. Bartlett at our lodgings that evening before going
out to fish, and it would appear that during our absence
he had fallen asleep, as he informed us on our return.
When questioned what he had been doing, he (to the
best of my recollection) replied he had been sleeping.
John Jones (Vicar of Dunston, Durham).
J. H. WiLKiE Ridley, M.R.C.S. Eng.,
6, CoUingwood Terrace, Gateshead.
378 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
[In an earlier, but second-hand account of the incident
sent by Mr. Hartig of Gateshead, it was stated that the dress
and rod of the figure seen resembled those of Mr. Bartlett,
who had been fishing with the percipients earher in the day.]
§ 3. Collective Visual Hallucinations recognised.
In the collective visual cases that remain to be described
the apparition was recognised. In the first two it also
vanished for at least one percipient. In the first (G. 275,
Journal, Vol. XI., p. 185) the recognised apparition was
that of a dead person. We received it through the Rev.
A. Holborn, who knew both the percipients. The account,
dated Dec. 9, 1903, printed below was written by one of
them and signed by both. Their names and the address
of the narrator were given fully, but with a request that
they should not be printed. The second percipient pre-
ferred not to write an independent account.
(G. 275.)
The account runs :
A little friend of ours, H. G., had been ill a long time.
His mother, who was my greatest friend, had nursed her
boy with infinite care, and during her short last ilhiess
was full of solicitude for hun.
After her death he seemed to become stronger for a
time, but again grew very ill, and needed the most
constant care, his eldest sister watching over him a,s the
mother had done. As I was on the most intimate terms
with the family, I saw a great deal of the invalid.
On Simday evening, June 28th, 1903, about 9 o'clock,
I and the sister were standiiag at the foot of the bed,
Avatching the sick one, who was unconscious, when suddenly
I saw the mother distinctly. She was in her ordinary
dress as when mth us, nothing supernatural in her appear- i
ance. She w^as bending over her boy with a look of
infinite love and longing and did not seem to notice us.
After a minute or tM'o she quietly and suddenly was not
there. I was so struck that I turned to speak to the i
^1
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 379
sister, but she seemed so engrossed that I did not think
it wise to say anything.
The httle patient grew gradually worse, iintil on Tuesday
evening, June 30th, I was summoned to go at once.
When I arrived at the house he had passed away. After
rendering the last offices of love to the dear httle bodj',
the sister and I agam stood, as on the Sunday, when I
said, " M , I had a strange experience on Sunday
evening here." She quickly rephed, " Yes, mother was
here ; I saw her." The young girl is not given to
fancies at all, and must have been impressed as I was.
The next case (L. 1169, Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 210)
came to us through the American Branch, from a member
of it of some years' standing. Mr. E. (one of the per-
cipients) and Mr. R. (whose apparition was seen) had
worked in the same office with him for a number of
years. After telling us a little about tliem in a letter
dated December 7, 1900, he goes on :
(L. 1169.)
Mr. R. told me of his appearance to Mr. and IMrs. E.
the morning after the occurrence, having heard it from
Mr. E. At that time Mr. and Mrs. E. were averse to
giving me any statement, and I have only recently over-
come their scruples. I can add that the story has not
growii any since it was first told me.—Sincerely yours,
L. T.
Mr. E. writes :
Dec. m. 1900.
About two years ago, one Sunday afternoon, I was
sitting with my wife in the back parlour of the flat we
then occupied. At that time Mr. T. R. often spent his
Sunday afternoons with us. We had spoken of him on
this occasion, and of the probabihty of his caUing, but
were not siaecially expecting him or thinking of him.
Happening suddenh^ to look up I saw Mr. R. standing
in the front parlour, just within the door leading to the
passage. I wondered how he had got in without ringing
380 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
and without being heard, but the image was so hfehke
that I did not for an instant suspect a hallucination,
and exclaiming "There is T. now," I arose and went
to meet him. The figure persisted until I almost reached
it and then instantly vanished. At my exclamation my
wife also looked and distinctly saw and recognised the
figure and also saw its sudden disa^^pearance. Mrs. E.
signs this statement in confirmation, and in case of
publication we request that our names be withheld.
S. P. E.
J. E. E.
Mr. E. told me the foregoing circumstance the day
after its occurrence, while the events of the evening were
fresh in my mind. I can therefore say positively that i
I was asleej) at the time of the occurrence, and have no
recollection of dreaming of Mr. or Mxs. E. I have been
seen " in the double " on other occasions, but I camiot .
put them on an evidential basis. T. R.
There can be no doubt, I think, that the experience in
this case was a collective hallucination, but it and the
two I shall next quote are those in the collection which
are most open to the suspicion that the experience of the
second percipient was due to verbal suggestion, because
the exclamation of the first was just what might have
produced the appearance seen if verbal suggestion could
do so. In the next two, moreover, the certainty is not
so great as in the one just quoted that it was a case of
hallucination. The characteristics by which the figure was
recognised were, however, in both cases well marked and
the light was good, and what was seen was certainly not
the person or animal it was taken for. Mistaken identity
seems therefore the only possible alternative to hallucina- <
tion, and in both cases it is not an easy one to accept.
;
In the first (G. 286, Journal, Vol. XV., p. 249) the appari-
1
tion, if it was one, was of a cat. The case was sent to
^
us on March 4th, 1912, by an Associate of the Society, tO;
whom the principal witnesses are personally known. The
names and addresses of all those concerned have been
given, to us, but since allusion is made below to matters
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 381
of private family history, pseudonyms are used here. It
will be observed that the case was recorded within a
week of its occurrence.
(G. 286.)
July \2th, 1909.
My sister, H. L. " Green," had a very favourite cat
called Smoky, a ]3ure-bred blue Persian of peculiar shade
and small. There was no other cat in the village in the
least like her. This spring she became ill, and died about
the middle of June, 1909. The gardener buried her, and
planted a dahha over her grave. Shortly before Smoky
died she had been worried by a dog, and had her ribs
broken, so that she walked quite lame. This injury was
the final cause of her death.
On Tuesday, July 6th, 1909, my sister and I were at
breakfast, and I was reading a letter aloud to her. I
was sittmg with my back to the window, which was on
my sister's left. Suddenly I saw her looking absolutely
scared, and gazing out of the -window. I said, " What
is the matter?" and she said, "There's Smoky, walking
across the grass !
" We both rushed to the window, and
saw Smoky, looking very ill, her coat rough and staring,
and walking lamely across the grass in front of the
window, three or four yards from it. My sister called
her, and as she took no notice, she ran out after her,
calling her. I remained at the wndow, and saw the
cat turn down a path leading to the end of the garden.
My sister ran after her, callmg her, but to her surprise.
Smoky did not turn nor take any notice, and she lost
sight of her among the shrubs. About ten minutes
afterwards, my sister and a friend living with us saw
Smoky again, going through a hedge in front of the
window. My sister again went out after her, but could
not find her. She was next seen about half-an-hour
afterwards by the servant, in the Idtchen passage. She
ran to get her some milk and followed her with it, but
the cat walked away, and from that moment she dis-
appeared completely. We made every enquiry of the
neighbours, but no one had seen her, or any cat Hlic her.
382 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
Of course we tliought there had been some mistake about
her death, though our friend, the gardener, and the boy
had all seen her dead. The gardener was so indignant
at the supj)osition that he had not buried the cat, that
he went to the grave, took up the plant, and dug up
the body of Smoky.
We are quite mystified at the occurrence, which was
witnessed by four people, namely B. J. Green, H. L.
Green, IVIiss Smith, and Kathleen B. (servant). When
last seen the cat was walking towards House, next
door, where she had lived all the winter and spring.
But when my sister went over there, the people at
House had seen nothing of her. When my sister first
ran out after her, the cat ran away in front of her,
moving fast, but on one side, as she did before she died.
B. J. [Green].
The account is also signed by jVIiss H. L. Green and Miss
D. W. Smith. Miss B. J. Green says in a letter :
" We
did not ask the httle maid to sign it, as we did not wish
her to dwell on the occurrence.'"
The pecuhar apjoearance of the cat and the nature of the
surroundings in which it was seen make it improbable that in
a small country place a real animal could have escaped all
previous and subsequent observation. In reply to our enquiries
Miss Green writes :
March Qth, 1912.
Our garden is a fairly large one, over half an acre,
and is entirely surrounded by a wall. The high road
runs on two sides of it, and on the other sides are our
own house and two houses with gardens, both belonging
to relations. Neither of these houses had any cat in
the least like ours, nor had the peoj)le seen one in their
gardens. There is a " spinney " about 100 yards uja the
road, but none nearer, and each time the cat was seen it
was going in the opposite direction to this wood—once
towards the end of our own garden, where it seemed to
go into a beech hedge which screens the stable, etc.
(My sister examined all this part, but could see nothing.)
The last time, it was going towards the wall separating
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 383
oiu" garden from that of House (my cousin's house,
in which my sister had lived for nine months wdiile the
owners were away ;
they had lately returned to it). It
did not jump upon the wall, but seemed to disappear as
it got near it. A tree on the other side of the wall
shades this part of the garden. . . .
When I saw it, I was at a large window, which reaches
\^dthin half a foot of the floor. Outside is a verandah,
with glass tiles, about two yards in width ;
beyond this
a grass-plot with flower-beds. When my sister and I
saw the cat, she was on the grass, just beyond the
verandah, in full sight from the window. I stood at
the window, while my sister ran out after her, and I
saw the cat wallc slowly across the grass towards a path
which bounds the grass-plot. My sister says she ran
clown this path, but I could not see this, as a holly-
hedge hid the path from me.
I may add that I have never in my life seen anything
supernormal, nor had our friend, Mss Smith ; but my
sister has twice seen curious " visions " or apparitions,
though she is the most practical, " common-sense," person
imaginable. Our father was Scotch (Galloway), our mother
Enghsh.
I have wondered sometimes whether my sister's sight
of the cat could have been conveyed to the other jier-
cipients telepathically, so that they saw what was present
to her vision.
The interest of the case seems to make it worth giving
a further account of her sister's visions which Miss B. J.
Green was kind enough to send.
March IZih, 1912.
In reply to your enquiry about my sister's experiences,
I will write dovm (from her dictation) exactly Avhat they
were.
As a young girl of eighteen to twenty she spent two
or three years with cousins at C . [The] house was
supposed to be haunted by an old lady, but nothing was
said to my sister about this, and it was only after her
experience that she was told of the supposed haunting.
384 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
My sister was in the habit of sitting up late in her
room, studying or reading. One night when she was
doing so, she heard, as she thought, her cousin coming
along the passage to her door, which was open. She
liastily blew out her hght and kept quiet, fully expecting
a scolding ! But the steps returned down the passage
again. Next morning she said laughingly to her cousin,
" You nearly caught me last night ; I suppose you saw
me blow out my hght." Her cousin said, " I never
came down your passage at all " ; but made no further
remark, and my sister supposed it must have been a
servant, but, feehng a little nervous, she took care to go
to bed in good time. Some time afterwards she woke
up with the feehng of a " presence " in the room, and,
looldng up, saw a figure bending over her. She was
really alarmed, and hid her face in the bed-clothes. When
she looked up the figure was gone. This time my sister
was both alarmed and angry, and at breakfast next
morning she told the story, and said she was going to
qi;estion the nurse and other servants about it. Then
our cousin begged her not to do so, and told her that
the house was said to be haunted, and that queer things
had often been heard there. After this my sister locked
her door ; but she was a very sensible, non-imaginative
girl, and she heard nothing further of the " ghost." At
the end of two or three years she came home, and did
not visit C again for several years. Then she stayed
in the same house, but on the lower floor, and though
she remembered the story, and half expected to see the
old lady, she saw and heard nothing whatever.
The third time she stayed there she had a very curious
experience. This was two years later. She slept on the
upper floor, but in a different room, and as she had seen
nothing on her last visit, she expected no apparition at
all. One night she woke up quite suddenly. She looked
up, and there, over her shoulder, against the wall, was
a man's head—the head only. It was quite clearly seen,
as if it were hghted in some way, though the room was
dark. It was a young face, with short beard, and very
sad eyes, as if they had tears in them. She Avas so
LXXXVI.] Collective and Beciprocal Cases. 385
startled that she called out " Go away, go away !
" and
hid her face for a moment. When she looked up the
face was gone.
She has always said, since, that she is very sorry she
was not brave enough to speak to the apparition.
Her next (and last) experience was, I think, the most
curious of all.
She went, a year or two later, to stay with a married
half-sister near B who was in very great trouble
and in some personal danger. After staying with her
about a month my sister was anxious to come home, and
had almost decided to do so. Early one morning (it
was getting quite light enough to see plainly) she woke
up with the same sensation of a " presence," and saw
kneehng by her bedside, with eyes fixed on her with an
entreating expression and hands clasped, a woman's figure.
She recognised the hkeness in the face, partly to a picture
of my half-sister"s own mother (which hung in another
half-sister's house), and partly to my eldest half-sister
(not the one she was staying with). She felt quite
certam, in a sort of flash, she says, that it was my
half-sister's own mother who was there, and asking her to
remain with her daughter. The figure disapj^eared almost
directly (my sister thinks she started up, or put her hands
up, she is not quite sure which), and it just went. Bat
she took it as a real request, and stayed on as long as
she was needed. (The reason she thought of leaving was
because her presence did not seem to benefit my half-
sister as she had hoped.)
These are all the things she has seen. But please
do not imagine that she is hysterical or nervous. She
is a trained nurse, very accurate, and particularly calm
and quiet in manner. She is the only one of our family
who has " seen anything " (except for my share in
" Smoky's " apparition), and I think any one who knew
her would say that she was a most unlikely " ghost
seer." But she is a person of strong will and has much
influence over others, and it was this quality which made
me think that my vision of " Smoky " might have been
telepathic from hers.
386 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
My father's first wife died more than two years before
he married again, and about six j^cars before my sister
was born. B. J. [Gkeen].
I have read over this account and can vouch for its
accuracy. Helen L. [Green].
In a subsequent letter Miss B. J. Green writes :
March 29th, 1912.
There is one more observation I should hke to make
re the " Smoky " story. My sister is not sentimental
about animals, and though very sorry for the cause of
Smoky's death, she was rather reheved when the suffering
was ended, as she knew the cat could not recover from
her injuries. She had certainly not fretted over her
death. I note this lest any one reading the account
should imagine that }ny sister was in any hysterical grief
over the cat's death.
Miss H. L. Green's earlier experiences, whether subjective in
origin or not, add to the probability that her vision of the cat
was hallucinatory, since they show that she is subject to vivid
visual hallucinations. It should be noted that she was the
first person to see the " apparition " of the cat. The three
subsequent percipients all laiew, when they saw the cat, that
it had been seen by her. The same explanation does not
necessarily apply to each of the three appearances of the cat.
The hypothesis that what was seen was a real cat mistaken
for Smoky is most plausible in regard to the servant and least
plausible in regard to the Misses Green ;
inversely, the evid-
ence for collective hallucination and suggestion is in their
case strongest. It is difficult to think that two persons,
having good normal eyesight, could be completely mistaken
as to the identity of an animal presenting several marked
peculiarities, with which they were perfectly famihar and which
they had on this occasion an excellent opportunity of observing.
On the other hand it may well be that Miss H. L. Green,
having experienced, as on previous occasions, a vivid subjective
hallucination, was able to convey it to her sister. The case
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 387
gains much in value from the fact that those concerned are
thoroughly competent observers, as may be judged from
their reports.
It is worth while comparing this case with another
collective apparition of a cat published in the " Eeport of
the Census of Hallucinations," Proceedings, Vol. X., p. 305,
and also in Podmore's book. It was collected for us by
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller. In that case a white cat was
seen by two ladies together on two different occasions,
and each time it vanished before their eyes. The account
was not, however, written till about five and six years
respectively after the occurrences.
The next case (L. 959, Joiirnal, Vol. VI., p. 131),
obtained through the kindness of Mrs. Shield, relates to
apparitions of the Rev. H. Hasted of Pitsea Rectory,
Essex, which were seen by several different percipients, in
two instances collectively. The first account is given by
two of Mr. Hasted's servants.
(L. 959.)
Pitsea Rectory,
March llth, 10.40 a.m.. [1892].
Yesterday, at half-past eleven, N., the rat-catcher
came to see master, who was out. We looked at the
I
clock to tell N. when we thought he could see master,
'
who had ordered luncheon at 12.15. We Avere both
outside the door when N. came. He was in a cart and
had with him two dogs. He drove on, and Mrs. Watts,
looking down the road, said, " Here comes the master !
"
Then I saw him too, his dog with him. N. had just got
;
below the front gate. We watched to see them nieet
;
'i
wondered why N. did not stop to speak, as he Avanted
to see master. He drove right on. About that time Ave
lost master ; couldn't think where he Avas, but fancied
he must have gone to Wilson's house. Wilson himself
Avas standing loAver doAvn, Avhere the roads meet. We
stiU Avatched, and Avhen we couldn't see him (master)
come out we A\ent indoors.
388 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
When Mr. Hasted came home T wasn't going to say
anything, but Mrs. Watts asked if he had seen N., who
wanted to tell him about a pupjiy. He said he had
been at Mr. Williams's, and all the story came out.
Eliza Smali,bone.
Jane Watts.
Mrs. Shield writes :
March. \m, 10 jhrn.
This forenoon for upwards of an hour, Mr. Hasted
was here [at Mr. Williams's] and I think it was from
eleven to past twelve. He Avas witing and conversing.
... Of all people in the world one Avould think these
old servants are the very least likely to make a mistake,
and the road is straight and not long, nor is it much
frequented.
After maldng inquiries the next day, Mrs, Shield wrote
further ;
Mrs. Watts, the cook-housekeeper, was not at home.
Eliza thought it quite impossible they could make a
mistake as to the person they saw, and everyone here
says the same. No one would expect to see him Avithout
his dog, but, in fact, the dog AA^as here with him.
I omit the accounts of Mr. Hasted's other appearances,
as one is remote and the other at second hand, and aa^U
only remark that there are cases of different percipients
having at different times hallucinations representing the
same person, see Phantasms of the Living, Chap. XIV.,
§ 5, and Human Personality, Vol. I., pp. 263 and 4.
I myself visited sites of these appearances of Mr. Hasted
and saw the witnesses of two of them. I wrote :
April 4:th, 1892.
I have to-day seen Mr. Hasted and the site of three
of his appearances, as well as Miss Florence Williams,
who Avas one of the percipients on the first occasion,
and Mr. Hasted's two servants who were the percipients
on the last occasion—last month.
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 389
The appearance to Miss does not appear to me
to come to very much, on account of distance and shnibs,
which must have obstructed the view not a httle. Miss
—— is said, however, to have recognised the liorse—
•
a hght-coloured one, unUke any others in the neigh-
bourhood.
The apj)earanco to the servants, thongli oat-of-doors
and at a considerable distance, is certainly remarkable.
They stood at the back door of the house, looking down
the lane after the rat-catcher. The lane is perfectly
straight and open, and, say, 100 yards long or 150, to
where it joins another road at right angles. At the end
of this lane the cook saw Mr. Hasted and his dog coming
towards the house, and almost before she called her
fellow-servant's attention to him the latter saw him too.
They saw him pass the groom's (Wilson's) cottage, which
is near the end of the lane, and anticipated his meeting
the rat-catcher and the latter stopping to sj)eak to him.
The rat-catcher's cart presently hid him from view, and
when he should have appeared on their side of the
cart he was gone. They were surprised, but supposed
he must have turned and gone into Wilson's cottage,
and thought no more of it. Wilson, however (whom I
also saw), was standing all the time at the end of the
lane, and he is quite positive that there was no one
whatever in the lane at the time except the rat-catcher.
Mr. Hasted's peculiar way of walking and swinging his
stick was noticed. His dog is a brown and white spaniel,
and there is no other like it in the neighbourhood excei)t
one kept tied up. The servants say they noticed this
dog and the rat-catcher's two dogs all at the same time.
They struck me as good witnesses. It is certain that
it could not have been Mr. Hasted himself because the
servants had noticed the time just before (11.35) in order
to teU the rat-catcher when they thought their master
would be in, and at that time Mr. Hasted was with Miss
F. Williams and Mrs. Shield at Bowers Gifford, and they
also noted the time. Mr. Hasted Avas hurrying through
some work, wondering whether he should get it done in
time to go home for lunch at 12.15.
390 Mrs. Hennj Sidgwick. [part
When Miss F. Williams and her sister (as children)
saw him, he was also coming along a straight road, the
approach to the Rectory, towards them. They watched
him through some bushes as he approached. When he
got up to the garden gate, they withdrew more behind
the bushes that he might not see them, but neither he
nor anyone else passed. The way to the back door
leads off from the garden gate, and it seems just possible
that the person they saw was not Mr. Hasted and was
someone who went to the back door. Their recognition
of Mi. Hasted was, however, very distinct. They do not
remember hearing any steps going towards the back door ;
they believe that they asked, and found that no one had
gone there. It was a good many years ago.
Mr. Hasted was also, Ave were told, supposed to have
been seen on the beach at Bournemouth by a lady friend
lately, when he was not at Bournemouth at all.
In the next case (L. 828, Journal, Vol. IV., p. 72) the
hallucination, if it was one, was very unusual in character,
and though mistaken identity is also a hypothesis difficult
to maintain, I think it is the easier of the two. Mr.
Maclclison writes from Sunderland, Feb. 6th, 1888 :
(L. 828.)
On the night of December 3rd, 1887 (Saturday), I was
serving customers in the bar, together with my daughter.
About a quarter past nine (as near as I can remember)
I saw William Frazer standing at the private door of the
bar that leads into the house. He said, " Well, how are
you, old man ?
" I rejjlied, " Hallo ! is that you, Frazer
—long looked for, come at last." My daughter, who was
standing near me, behind the counter, turned round and
saw him also, for she called out, " Good gracious !
Wonders never cease." I had a tray of glasses in my
hand at the time which I was just about to carry upstairs,
so I came to the door beside Frazer, took him along to
the smoke-room, and saw him enter. As he stood just
within the room, Avith his back almost turned to me, I
said, " Content yourself there. I'U be down in a minute."
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 391
While saying this I remember distinctly I stood with my
foot on the bottom step of the stair. I also remember
that as I passed the smoke-room door I saw a stranger
seated in an armchair near the fire. I took the glasses
upstairs, and returned in about a minute and a-half
;
but on entering the smoke-room I found neither Frazer
nor the stranger there. I thought Frazer must be hiding
somewhere, as he was always full of fun and " up to
larks," so I searched all over the house for him, also
over the yard and outhouses, as I thought he might have
shpped out there while I was upstairs. I concluded he
must have gone home, and world doubtless return the
next day (Sunday) to settle up. I should explain that
the " Engineers' Friendly Society " meets at my housa.
Frazer is a member, and before going on his last voyage
he had asked me to keep his subscriptions paid up while
he was away. This I had done, so that when I saw him
at the bar-door, I naturally concluded he had called to
settle with me about his society's affairs. He did not
call on the Sunday, and some days later we saw the
Collingwood ss. (Frazer's vessel) reported in the newspapers
as arriving at Antwerp. When Frazer appeared, he was
dressed much as usual, with the exception of his hat.
He carried a black leather bag. He looked tired and
dejected, and he did not look me straight in the face.
On the night of December 19th (Monday) Frazer did
actually call upon us. We told him of our strange
experience. He told us that on the night of the 3rd the
Collingwood ss. sailed from Gibraltar for Antwerp. He
didn't say what he was doing at a quarter past nine
—
in fact, he laughed at the whole affair. They had had
some very rough weather on the voyage, hence their
detention. I settled up with him in connection with the
Friendly Society, then we walked out together. He was
not so hvely as usual ; he didn't feel much inchned to
go to sea again at once—he thought he was entitled to
"a bit holiday." He asked my advice about it; I
didn't advise him either one way or the other, l)ut left
it to himself to decide. I regret now that I didn't
advise him to remain ashore, for the next da\' ho sailed
2b
392 Mrs. Henry SidgioicJc. [part
for Savona in the CoUingwood, from the Tyne (owners,
C. TuUy and Co.). His vessel has not been heard of
since leaving Gibraltar ; she is now fully a month overdue.
Frazer's mother has not given up hopes of his safety yet
—
but I have, so has the owner. The mother thinks the crew
may have been picked up by some outward bound vessel.
Frazer was a fine young fellow, 25 years of age, un-
married, second engineer on board the CoUingwood ss.
I have never had a similar experience to this before.
My daughter and I are certain we were not mistaken in
our man. We know no one else at all resembling Frazer.
George Maddison.
Miss Maddison wrote an exactly concordant account two
and a half months later, giving the remarks exchanged
almost verbatim as her father did.
It will be admitted that it is very unusual for a hallu-
cination to affect similarly both sight and hearing of two
percipients—I do not think we have another instance of
it—and to persist while one percipient " took him along
to the smoke-room." The testimony of the person in
the smoke-room might have been conclusive on the
c[uestion whether the figure seen was a real man or not,
but Mr. Nisbet, at that time Honorary Associate of the
Society, had an interview with Mr. and Miss Maddison,
and ascertained that Mr. Maddison did not know who this
person was.
§ 4. Collective Auditory Cases.
It is, generally speaking, more difficult in the case
of purely auditory experiences than in the case of visual
ones to feel sure that they are really hallucinatory,
because we more often fail to interpret real sounds
correctly than real sights. This is especially true of
non-vocal noises. In the non-vocal cases, however,
in our collection the sounds heard were regarded by
the percipients as probably, or at least possibly, veri-
dical, being associated with external events, and they
already have been or will be dealt with under appro-
priate heads. The cases that remain consist of one
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 393
in which the sounds were musical—as of voices singing
—
and two in which names were called. But the musical
one and one of the others seem to me very doubtfully
hallucinatory, and I will only describe them briefly.
In L. 1203 [Journal, Vol. XVII., p. 118) we have the
evidence of four members of a family who, in the ruins
of the Abbey of Jumieges, heard for a few seconds sounds
as of monks singing. Their efforts to discover any
natural cause for this failed, but whether the possibilities
were exhausted may perhaps be doubted. \
In the next case (L. 960, Journal, Vol. VI., p. 139) the
percipients were again out of doors, in a street. Mx.
U. J. da Costa Cabral of Rio, together with a number of
schoolboys, his pupils, heard and recognised the voice of
his sister who hved with him. The voice called two
names, his own " Ulysses " and that of his brother-in-law
" Bittencourt." His sister had not called and nothing
had happened to her. The voice seemed to come from
the comer of the street, but when some of the boys ran
there, they found nothing. The case was sent by Pro-
fessor Alexander of Rio, who examined the witnesses.
The third case (G. 247, Journal, Vol. VII., p. 9) is,
I think, more remarkable. It was received through the
Rev. W. S. Grignon. We are not permitted to print the
names of the percipients.
(G. 247.)
One of them, Mr. W., writes :
August 6th, 1893.
On the 1st November, 1892, soon after 11 a.m., -^hile
seated with ]\Ir. S , m the office room of his house
at , Poona, I distinctly heard a voice with which I
was quite unacquainted call out in sharp clear tones,
"]Mrs. H ! Mrs. H !" (my sister-in-law, who was
lost in the Roumania a few days previously). The
voice seemed to be that of someone calhng from above
to my sLster-in-law down stairs.
394 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
My age was 36, and at the time I was in good health,
though in grief and anxiety about the loss of my sister-
in-law ;
[I] was discussing an official I'eport of mine,
which JVIr. S , who is the head of my Department,
was reading out.
Mr. S distinctly heard the same voice, and we both
started up and went outside into the verandah and all
over the house, but there was no one about except the
peons, who declared no one had called out. The ladies
of the house were in one of the back bedrooms, but they
had neither heard the voice, nor had they been calhng
out.
I have never had an experience of this kind before.
Mr. S. writes :
PooNA, August loth, 1893.
Mr. W 's statement is absolutely true. I heard
the voice, clear and distinct, call out, " Mrs. H ,"
twice. It was a voice not belonging to my household,
and a strange voice,—the voice of a woman alarmed
;
and it sounded as if on board ship calling down a sky-
light. I say this in perfect faith, as I began hfe as a
sailor, and served seven years in the Indian Navy, and
have had personal experience of the ^Deculiar sound of
voices calling down hatchways and skylights on board
ship at sea. The voice was so real, and the name so
distinctly uttered, that Mr. W and I left the table at
which we were seated and ran outside into the verandah
of the bungalow in the endeavour, on the spur of the
moment, and on natural impulse, to discover the owner
of the voice ; but there was no one at all near, within
speaking or caUing distance. Two peons, or native
messengers, who were in the verandah, informed us that
no European had been near, and these peons knew no
English.
§ 5. Seiiii-reciprocal and Reciprocal Cases.
8o far the simultaneous psychical experiences described
in this chapter, whether dreams or hallucinations, have
occurred to percipients who were together at the time. In
LXXXVI.] CoUecfive and Reciprocal Casc!^. 305
the cases that remain, the percipients were apart. There is
therefore no longer any question of suggestion hy word or
gesture ; if the two psychic experiences were connected,
it ahnost mvist have been telepathically. There seems no
other alternative.
In the first two, winch are in some ways curiously
alike, the percipients have simultaneous, but not similar,
hallucinations of each other
—
A seeing an apparition of B,
and B hearing A call.
The first (L. 1150, Journal, Vol. XII., p. 193) was
obtained for us by a Member of the Society, Mr. A. W.
Orr, of 15 Moorland Road, Didsbury, Manchester, who
collected all the evidence available. It will be observed
that the case was reported to us within a few weeks of
its occurrence. Mr. Orr writes :
(L. 1150.)
July 26th, 1905.
I enclose an account of a hallucination experienced by
Mrs. Ellen Green of Manchester during a recent visit to
Cardiff, and of another in connection therewith experienced
by a Captain Ward, a retired master mariner, which I have
got the various persons concerned to sign as being correct.
Mrs. Green is a trance-speaker on spirituaUstic platforms
and is a natural clairvoyante, but not by any means a
credulous person. . . .
The account enclosed was as foUows :
I had been staying at the house of Mr. Ward, a retired
Master in the Mercantile Marine, who resides at North-
wood House, Llanishen, near Cardiff, and on Tuesday,
June 20th [1905], he drove me over to Whitchurch (about
two miles from Llanishen) where I was to spend a couple
of days with friends, Mr. and Mrs. Berwick. He left me
there at about eleven o'clock in the forenoon and returned
to his home. On the following afternoon at about half-
past three I was sitting alone in the drawing-room, Mrs.
Berwick being in her own room, and, on happening to
look up, I saw Mr. Ward standing at the bay mndow and
looking in at me as though he desired to speak to me.
Mrs. Henry Sidgvnch. [part
He was in liis usual dress and is not a man to be easily
mistaken for any one else. Thinldng he had brought
some letters for me, I rose hastily and went towards the
window calling to hiin and waving my hand to him,
partly in greeting and partly as a sign for him to go to
the hall door, but when I reached the window I was
surprised not to see him. I concluded, however, that he
must have gone to the door without my noticing and so
I hurried to the door to let him in. I was exceedingly
surprised and alarmed when I opened the hall-door to
see nobody there, nor Eniywhere about the house. Later
when Mrs. Berwick came down I told her—and also Mr.
Berwick—of my experience, and like myself they felt
extremely anxious lest some harm had happened to Mr.
Ward, for whom we all felt a strong regard.
Next morning, however, soon after eleven o'clock Mr.
Ward arrived in his trap according to arrangement to
take me to the railway station to join the train for
Manchester. He was in a very weak state and suffering
from severe injuries to his ankle, neck, and shoulders, and
he remarked to us, "It is a wonder I have been able to
come to you in the body." It seemed that whilst driving
home on Tuesday the horse, which was a very nervous
animal, upset the trap and caused him to be thrown out
and badly bruised and shaken. The next afternoon,
whilst Ipng on a couch in his sitting-room, he was wonder
ing what Mrs. Gi'een would think if she knew of the
occurrence, when he suddenly heard her voice outside the
house. There being only an elderly woman in the house
he managed with great difficulty to get to the haU-door
to admit Mrs. Green, and was greatly amazed not to see
her. The time was between three o'clock and four,
just about the time when Mrs. Green saw his form at
Whitchurch.
We certify that this account of the hallucinations seen
and heard by Mrs. Green and Captain Ward is correct.
Ellen Green.
Frederick Ward.
John Berwick.
Fanny A. Berwick.
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 397
In rejjly to enquiries about this case, Mr. Orr wrote :
July 28th, 1905.
In reply to your questions re Mrs. Green's experience in
South Wales, I may say that when she told me the
circamstances I asked her to repeat the account, and I
took a shorthand note of it which I transcribed and sent
to her to get the signatures of the other people affixed
to it, so that I coiild send it then to you. For some
reason Mr. Green re-wrote the narrative (copied, I beUeve,
from my note) and his copy was sent [to] and signed by
Mr. and Mrs. Berwick and Captain Ward ; Mrs. Green
handed it to me and I posted it to you.
I have written to the other persons asking them to let
me have their individual statements, ... I know nothing
of them personally.
Mrs. Green is a trance speaker and is engaged for
Sunday services all over the country ... I have known
her for some years and have the fullest confidence in her
integrity . . . She has had many very remarkable experi-
ences during her life, but, as is so frequently the case,
no note was made of them at the time, and so they are
lost for all practical purposes. . . .
Mr. Orr obtained later the following statements from the
other mtnesses in the case :
(1)
From Mr. J. Berwick.
10, Windsor Terrace, Penarth,
4ih August, 1905.
... I am quite wiUing to do what is reasonably possible
to confirm the statement made by Mrs. Green, but you
have evidently overlooked the fact that the original
document is an attested one and was signed while the
incident was fresh in our memories ; but to sit down now
and write an accurate account of what was said and done
last June is an impossible task for a very busy man. I
really do not remember the details sufficiently clearly to
make a statement which [could] be used for comparison
•^^^ Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
witli one made two months ago, but you are quite at
liberty to use our names in so far as they relate to the
statement already in your possession. I am sorry I
cannot do more. John Berwick.
From Ca]-)tain Ward.
NORTHWOOD, BlRCHGROVE, CARDIFF,
2nd August, 1905.
I have pleasure in reply to your letter to give you here
the facts of the incident as it actually happened. On
the 20th June last I drove Mrs. Green in my pony trap
to Mr. Berwick's house in Whitchurch, Cardiff, and on
returning home to above address, met with an accident,
being thrown out of my trap backwards, hurting my
neck and ankle. On the following day the 21st inst.
I was unable to leave the house, and lay on the sofa
in my dining room, when between the hours of 3 and
4 p.m. I distinctly heard Mrs. Green's voice outside the
front door calhng me. I managed to rise from the couch
and look out through the window to call her in, but
found no person there ; the time would exactly agree
with that when Mrs. Green saw my form at Whitchurch.
This I found out on speaking to Mrs. Green on Thursday
the 22nd inst. I had not seen her between the 20tli
and 22nd. The above are the facts of the case.
Frederick Ward.
The second case (L. 1187, Journal, Vol. XV., p. 259)
was communicated to us by Mr. W. W. Baggally. Both
Miss Emma Steele and Mr. Claude Burgess, the lady and
gentleman concerned in the case, are Imown personally to
Mr. Baggally.
(L. 1187.)
Miss Steele writes as follows :
16 & 17, SiLLWOOD Place,
Brighton, March 13th, 1912.
Mr. Claude Burgess, who is an invahd, had been staying
at my private hotel, at the above address, for some
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reci'procal Cases. 399
months. He left on February 15th to take up his resid-
ence at No. 10, Belgrave Place, Kemp Town, Brighton.
In the interval between the date of his leaving and the
night of the 5th inst., when I had the remarkable dream
(if it can be caUed a dream) which I am about
to relate, I had not seen Mr. Burgess and nothing
had occurred to cause me to think particularly about
liim.
On the above night I retired to rest at my usual time.
I awoke finding myself standing in the middle of my
room and answering, "All right, I'm coming," to Mr.
Burgess, who, I thought, called three times :
" Miss
Steele ! Miss Steele ! Miss Steele !
"
By the time I had put on my dressing gown and
lighted the gas I was fully awake. I then remembered
Mr. Burgess was no longer in the house. I looked at
the clock and noticed it was exactly 3 a.m. When I
came downstairs next morning, I told my cook my dream,
and remarked I hoped nothing had happened to Mr.
Burgess. During the next day, Wednesday, 6th March,
in the afternoon, a man called while I was out and left
a note from Mr. Burgess, which I enclose. I was much
surprised by its contents. It struck me most forcibly
getting it from him, as he is paralysed and has to \^Tite
with great difficulty with his left hand. He very seldom
writes now, so it must have made a great impression on
him seeing me as he relates in his letter.
Emma M. Steele.
The letter from Mr. Burgess to Miss Steele referred to
above, which is now in our possession, was as follows :
10, Belgrave Place, Brighton.
My dear, Emma,
I had a funny dream about you last night. I
dreamed that you ajjpeared at about 3 a.m. Just a
ghmpse of you. It's funny, isn't it ?
,
Yours,
Claude Burgess.
400 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
Miss Steele's cook made the following statement to Mr.
Baggally :
March I3th, 1912.
On Wednesday morniag, the 6th March last, Miss
Emma Steele came down from her bedroom at 8.30.
I saw she was looking pale. I asked her if she were not
well. She rephed that she had had a strange dream.
She heard Mr. Burgess call her three times. She told me
that she suddenly jumped up and put her dressing gown
on. By the time she had put on her dressing gown
and Ut the gas she remembered Mr. Burgess had left the
house. She said it was about 3 o'clock a.m. when she
heard Mj. Burgess call.
(Signed) Sarah Pollard.
The following statement was written by Mr. Baggally on
March 13th, 1912, from Mr. Claude Burgess's dictation :
On Tuesday night, 5th March, 1912, I woke up at
about 3 a.m. with a start. I saw Miss Emma Steele
standing at the door of my bedroom. I had closed the
door, but she appeared to have opened it. She was
attired in her ordinary dress.
I was much surprised. It was an absolutely distinct
apparition. I had not been thinldng of her the previous
day and I cannot tell why she appeared to me. .
The apparition lasted about five seconds. I was not
at all frightened and went to sleep immediately after.
I was so struck by what I had seen that, next morning,
the 6th March, at about 11 o'clock, I wrote a letter to
Miss Steele which I handed to Mr. WiUiam Watkins, the
proprietor of the estabhshment where I now reside, for
him to send to Mss Steele. In this letter I told Miss
Steele that I had dreamed that she had appeared to me
on the previous night.
(Signed) Claude Burgess.
In reply to Mr. Baggally's jDersonal enquiries, Mr. Claude
Burgess stated that it was the first tune that he had had a
hallucination of this Idnd, and he had not had one since.
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciyrocal Gasef^. 401
Stafem,ent by Mr. William Watkins.
10, Belgeave Place,
Bkighton, March ISth, 1912.
Mr. Claude Burgess delivered to me a letter which he
had written to Miss Steele, at about 11 a.m. on March
fith, which I handed to a man of the Church Army
Labour Home to take to Miss Steele. The same morning
at 8 a.m. Mr. Burgess told me he had dreamt of Miss
S^^ele. William Watkins.
'
Statement by Mr. Baggally.
I called on the afternoon of the 13th March, 1912, at
the offices of the Church Army Labour Home, St. James
Street, Brighton, and saw the Secretary, who showed me
an entry in their books confirming the fact that, at the
request of Mr. Wilham Watkins, a man in their employ
had dehvered a letter to Miss Emma Steele of 16, Sill-
wood Place, Brighton, in the afternoon of 6th March,
1912.
I have interviewed all the persons connected with this
case and they confirmed their respective statements.
W. W. Baggally.
In reply to our further questions as to whether Mr. Burgess's
experience was a dream or a waking hallucination, Mr. BaggaUy
wrote to us on April 1st, 1912 :
I had an interview with Mr. Burgess to-day, and the
following is the information I received from him respecting
the points you raise. He said to me :
" (1) I used the word dream in my letter to Miss
Steele for want of a better word. (2) I woke up and
then had the vision of Miss Steele. (3) I did not notice
anything in the room at the time I had the vision. The
room appeared dark. (4) Miss Steele appeared to me in
a bright light, not self-luminous or phosphorescent, but
just as she would have appeared in dayhght. She ap-
peared to me in the part of the room where the door
was."
402 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
Mrs. Baggally sends us the following statement enclosed in
a letter dated April 27tli, 1912 :
I was in the di'awing-rooni of Miss E. Steele's sister
on the evening of Wednesday, March 6th, when IVIiss
Emma Steele came in, saying in an excited manner,
" Where is Mr. Baggally ? He will be so interested in
this."
She held in her hand a letter from Mr. Burgess, and
proceeded to tell me that the previous night she had
heard, as she thought, Mr. Burgess fall on the floor of
the bedroom over her own. She sprang out of bed.
Finding herselE in the middle of the room she heard him
call " Miss Steele " three times. She then suddenly
remembered that Mr. Burgess was no longer hving in her
hotel. She struck a hght, looked at the clock and found
it was 3 o'clock. The following morning she felt so
tired that when giving orders to her cook, the latter
noticed her fatigue and commented upon it. She told
the cook the reason was that she heard Mr. Burgess
apparently caUing her at 3 o'clock.
Miss Steele proceeded to say that Mr. Burgess had,
curiously [enough], sent her that afternoon the note which
at that moment she held in her hand and in which he
told her that he dreamt she had appeared to him at
3 a.m. the previous night.
Miss Steele appeared much impressed and wondered if
anything had happened to Mr. Burgess. I informed my
husband that same night on his return home, [of] what
Miss E. Steele had told me. Laura E. Baggally.
On my return home on the evening of March 6th my
wife related to me what appears m her statement above.
W. W. Baggally.
In the first of these cases (Mrs. Green and Captain
Ward) there can be little doubt that both experiences
were waking hallucinations. In the second this is less
certain, for both experiences occurred at the moment
of waking. It seems pretty certain, however, that ,
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 403
Mr. Burgess was awake when he saw Miss Steele's phan-
tasm, though m Miss Steele's case the hearing of the
call seems more like the end of a dream, and it is
not quite clear—probably was not clear to herself at the
time—whether she awoke from it or to it. It is not a
question of much importance, for in both cases the
experiences were evidently of a markedly impressive
character.
Neither of these cases was exactly reciprocal in the
fullest sense, for there is no evidence of the percipients
participating in each other's experiences, or realising each
other's surroundings and circumstances or ideas in any
way. I think it is very likely that there was reciprocal
telepathic action and reaction—each party being both agent
and percipient. But there is little or no internal evidence
of this. The utmost that can be said, I think, is that
Miss Steele's intention, before she was fully awake, to go
to Mr. Burgess's assistance may have caused the appear-
ance to him of her phantasm, and that Mrs. Green's call
to the phantasmal Captain Ward may have been the
cause of the hallucinatory call heard by him. But this
is highly conjectural, as the details do not correspond
;
and if it was so, it would indicate one-sided rather than
reciprocal influence. The evidence for telepathy depends,
as it does in death-coincidences, on a phantasm of A
being seen or heard by B at the time that an miusual
event was occurring to A—that event being death in the
case of a death coincidence, and the perception of a
phantasm of B in the two cases we are discussing.
In the next case (L. 1122, Journal, Vol. IX., p. 331)—
a case of two dreams dreamt in different rooms of the
same house on the same night and probably at the same
hour—the element of possible reciprocity is somewhat
more marked ; for in both dreams the husband was
believed to be examining the supposed injury to the leg,
and the half-awake thought that followed the dreams
corresponded. Nevertheless the evidence scarcely carries
us beyond thought-transference, not necessarily involving
404 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
reciprocal action, and this, it will be observed, is the view
taken of it by the dreamer who sent it to us. He is
an Associate of the Society who has long been actively
interested in psychical research and was well known to
Mr. Myers, as he is to other Members of the Council.
In estimating the evidential value of the case, due weight
must of course be given to the probability that the pre-
occupation of the dreamers with the main subject of the
dreams may have helped to produce them, at least in
part. But this would not account for the correspondence
in detail (as far as it goes) nor for the coincidence in
time. Mr. , who prefers that his name should not
appear in connection with this case, writes : 1
(L. 1122.)
j
October Uth, 1900.
I beg to send you a small but rather definite experience
of thought-transference, which has just occurred to us.
I have collected a number of other people's cases, but
never had one of my own till now.
The account enclosed is as foUows :
Sunday, October 1th, 1900.
I woke abraptly in the small hours of this morning
with a painful conviction upon me that my wife, who
was that night sleeping in another part of the house,
had burst a varicose vein in the calf of her leg, and that
I could feel the swelled place, three inches long. I
wondered whether I ought to get up and go down to her
room on the first floor, and considered whether she would
be able to come up to me ; but I was only partly awake
though in acute distress. My mind had been suddenly
roused, but my body was still under the lethargy of
sleep. I argued with myself that there would sure to be
nothing in it, that I should only disturb her, and so
shortly went off to sleep again.
'
On going to her room this morning I said I had had a
horrid dream, which had woke me up, to the effect that
she had burst a varicose vein, of which just now care has
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 405
to be taken.
'"'
Why," she repUed, " I had just the
same experience. I woke up at 2.15 feelmg sure the calf
of my leg was bleeding, and my hand seemed to feel it
wet when I put it there. I turned on the light in alarm,
noticing the time, and wondered if I should be able to
get up to thee, or whether I should have to wake the
housekeeper. Thou was in the dream, out of which I
woke, examinmg the place."
Though I did not note the hour, 2 o'clock is about the
time I should have guessed it to be ; and the impression
on my mind was vivid and terrible, Imowing how dangerous
such an accident would be. It is the first certain case
of thought-transference I have had. My wife's account is
being written independently of this. I regard her as the
agent, myself the percipient, and some pain in the leg
the original source of the impression.
The other witness concerned in the case writes :
[On the] night of October 6th, 1900, I went to bed
about 11.0 ; the veins of my left leg which are varicose
were rather more painful than usual, and the whole calf
felt and looked lumpy.
I felt twinges of pain in it off and on in my sleep
without being entirely roused till about 2.15 a.m. Then,
or just before, I dreamt or had a vivid impression that
a vein had burst, and that my husband, Avho was sleeping
m another room up another flight of stairs, was there
and called my attention to it. I thought it felt wet
and trickling down the leg as if bleeding, passed my hand
down and at first thought it seemed wet, but on gaining
fuller consciousness found aU right, and that it was not
more painful than often when I got out and stood on it.
Thought over the contingency of its actually bursting
and whether I could so bandage it in that case as to make
it safe to go up to my husband's room, and thought I
could do so.
Looking at my watch found it about 2.20.
Almost immediately on my husband's coming do\^'n,
about 7.30 a.m., he told me that he had Avakened early
in the night (about same time would be early to him)
406 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
with an impression that the vein in my leg had burst
and was bleeding ; that he had wondered if he should
come down and thought over whether I should be able
to bandage it and go up to him, had decided I could.
" It was just here," he said, pointing on his own left
leg to the exact spot at the top of the calf where I have
the most trouble.
In answer to a question as to the accuracy of Mrs. 's
recollection that he had at the time debated within himself
whether she would be able to bandage her leg (a detail not
mentioned in his own account), Mr. writes :
October 22nd, 1900.
In response to your query, I certainly thought of my
wife coming up with her leg bandaged. It was part of
my idea of her difficulties.
In the next case (L. 1149, Journal, Vol. XII., p. 173)
the percipients were again in two separate rooms of the
same house. It is distinctly, at least to some extent,
reciprocal—one sister being aware of the other's pain and
of her answer to a cpiestion, and the other sister dreaming
of the first sister's enquiry. The experiences of both
sisters were odd and clifificult to define, but probably those
of Miss Isabelle Pagan occurred while she was really
asleep, and thus were dreams though of an unusual kind ;
and that while the experience of Miss EHzabeth Pagan
began as a dream, the dream figure of her sister per-
sisted for a moment or two as a waking hallucination
after the dreamer had waked herself by replying to the
enquiry heard in the dream. It is a pity that an account
of so interesting a case was not written down, like the
two last, immediately after it occurred. t !.
(L. 1149.)
The first account was written by Miss I. M. Pagan, of 24,
Newbattio Terrace, Edinburgh.
May 8lJi, 1905.
On the night of Wednesday, 17th of March, 1904 (as
nearly as I can remember the date), I was sleeping in my
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 407
own room at the top of this house, my sister EHzabeth
being in the room next mine. In the middle of the night
—at what hour I do not know—I was awakened by a
curious sensation of pressure from above, as of a weight
resting gently but firmly on me, and looking up saw my
sister Ehzabeth suspended in some way above me in the
air. She was lying with her eyes shut, covered with a
quilt as if in bed, and looked very pale and ill. I felt
no surprise but only concern for her evident suffering, and
a strong impulse to get up and minister to her. (She
is subject to occasional attacks of severe pain, and I
have nursed her through them very frequently.) How-
ever, as soon as I tried to rise I found myself too heavy
with sleep to do so. My eyes would not open, and my
shoulders seemed as if held down by their own weight.
Yet I had felt quite wide awake and fully conscious of
where I was, of the furniture in the room, etc. It
seemed as if I gave up the attempt to rise, partly because
she made me understand that she did not need my
help, but only wanted to be near me. So I put out my
arm—half sitting up, and without effort—and guided her
to a place beside me on the bed, falling asleep again as
soon as she was comfortably settled. She seemed to
float through the air much as a child's india-rubber balloon
would do, and was quite easily moved when I touched her.
After a while I woke again with a start and a feeling
of distress at my own laziness, and again made an effort
to rise, thinking remorsefully that she had been in pain
and I ought to have got up and made a poultice, but had
done nothing for her. There was again a difficulty in
rousing myself, and then came the recollection that she
was beside me, so that I didn't need to rise. I sat up
(once more with ease) and asked, "Are you all right
now ? " I heard her answer, " Yes, I am all right,
thank you," and went to sleep again.
In the morning I was wakened by my youngest sister
HUda, who came into the room saying, " Betty sent me
to teU you that you came to her in your astral body
last night." "No I didn't!" I exclaimed, "she came to
me. Was she in pain ?
" " Yes."
2c
408 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [PAET
I went to my sister's room and found she had been
suffering during the night, had thought of calling me,
but decided she wasn't ill enough to need any treatment.
After lying awake for about half-an-hour she feU asleep,
and was awakened by my voice asking, " Are you aU
right now ?
" and looldng up saw me near the door of her
room—rather a shadowy figure enveloped in bed-clothes,
even the head being partially covered. She answered,
" Yes, I am all right, thank you," and went to sleep
again with the impression that I had somehow ministered
to her.
As a matter of fact I was lying much muffled up, as
I had felt cold and drawn the clothes well up over my
ears. I am perfectly certain I did not get out of bed
aU night, and I have never done anything in the sleep-
walking line. This is my only " psychic experience
"
worth recording. I once previously had the same strong
impression of a friend having come to me in the night,
but have no corroborative evidence. . . . My attention
was not directed to these subjects at the time, and I
dismissed the incident as a curiously vivid dream ; but
though I dream a good deal, these two experiences stand
out from other dreams as difi'erent. I feel that whatever
the state of consciousness may have been, I was awake
and alive to my physical surroundings in a way quite
unusual in ordinary dreams.
A cousin (Mrs. Young) came to hve with us on the 15th
March, and recalls that it was after she arrived that the
incident took place. I left home on the 22nd, so the
" vision " came to me between these two dates, I beheve
on the 17th. Isabelle M. Pagan.
E. H. C. Pagan.
G. Hilda Pagan.
In reply to enquiries and a request for separate statements
from the two sisters, whose signatures were added to hers,
Miss I. M. Pagan wrote :
June 20th, 1905.
. . . The sleep-walking theory would naturally suggest
itself, but I do not think it is a possible explanation in
i
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 409
this case. You mil note my sister's very momentary
impression of my presence and how it faded away, and
also the fact that it never for an instant occurred to her
that it could be myself. Now the room she slept in is
very small, 18 ft. 6x10 ft., and the bed was quite near
the door—within 6 ft., and her hearing is exceptionally
quick and her sight good (except that she wears glasses
for reading). If I had reaUy been there she would have
heard me. On one or two occasions when I have felt
poorly I have gone to her room to boil some water on
her gas fii'e, and she always heard me the moment I
entered and asked, " What is it ?
" I have never walked
in my sleep nor have I heard of any grown-up member
of our huge connection doing so. Various httle children
among dozens of cousins and nieces have got out of bed
occasionally and wandered into their mother's room, or
I crossed the floor to the nurse's bed, etc., etc. One of my
own sisters did so twice or thrice when she was about
five. ... Of course there may have been cases of older
sleep-walking in the family ; for my mother had 100
first cousins on one side of the house alone, and we have
relatives by the score whom we scarcely Imow ; but on
the whole we are a healthy and normal set, and if there
had been anything striking in that line I should probably
have heard of it. I see in my sister's account she says
she felt iU on going to bed. None of us had any idea
of that. It never even struck me she looked jDOorly.
Miss Ehzabeth Pagan writes :
24, Newbattle Terrace, Edinburgh, June 20th, 1905.
My sister, Isabelle Pagan, teUs me you wish to have a
statement from me relating to the curious sort of dream
she and I seemed to experience in common some months
ago. My recollection of the incident is that while retiring
for the night I felt far from well, but I did not mention
the fact to any one lest one of my sisters should think
of sitting up with me or at least staying awake on the
chance of being wanted. IsabeUe s room is next to mine
and I knew I could summon her if necessary by Imocking
on the wall. After two or three somewhat painful hours
410 Mrs. Henry Sidgioick. [part
I fell asleep ; and towards morning, though the room
was still very darlc, I woke, as if from a dream, hearing
myself say, " I am all right now, thanks. Belle." At
the same time I seemed to see a shadowy form which
I somehow knew to be Belle, though she was unrecognis-
ably muffled up in white drapery. The whole vision
vanished UteraUy in the winking of an eye, for, as I
winked myself awake to look again at the puzzhng appari-
tion, it was gone. When my sister Hilda entered my
room before brealdast, the first thing I said to her was,
" How is Belle ? Please ask her why she paid me a
visit in her astral body last night." Belle's answer to
this message was, " Indeed I didn't ! Tell her she came
in her astral body to me\
"
Then Hilda heard details of the two dreams ; and we
all felt convinced that Belle had, by some sort of tele-
pathy, been conscious that I was in pain and been able to
make me aware of her s3Tnpathy.
Neither of us has ever been known to sleep-walk and as
we have generally shared a room with a sister—often in
fact roomed with one another—it is hardly possible we
could have done so withoat its being known. The doors
were not locked, but we both beUeve them to have
remained shut all night. There was no one near enough
to have heard if we did move about.
Isabelle and I have very frequently dreamt like dreams ;
that is to say, we have both dreamt of the same scene
or the same people on the same night ; but this is the
onlv case of any sort of communication being recollected
by us both on waldng. The report already sent you of
this incident was written by my sister Isabelle and signed
by her as well as by Hilda and myself. ... i
Elizabeth H. C. Pagan (M.A. Edin.).
Miss Hilda Pagan wrote as follows :
24, Newbattle Terrace, Edinburgh, July 20th, 1905.
One morning in March 1904 my sister Elizabeth told
me when I went to her room before breakfast, that she
had been ill in the night and had dreamt our sister
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Heciprocal Case^. 411
Isabelle had been in the room, standing near the door,
and had asked, " Are you all right now ?
" On the invalid
saying " Yes," Isabelle had disappeared, and indeed she
had hardly been really recognisable according to outward
appearance ;
Ehzabeth had rather recognised her intuitively,
and spoke to me of the dream as probably an " astral
experience," an explanation I readily beheved. I went
to waken our sister in the next room and said, " Betty
says you visited her in your astral body last night."
" Oh no, I didn't, she visited me," Isabelle answered.
" I was wakened by her on my bed ; she was ill, and I
tried to sit up and make her comfortable, but I slept,
and only woke once, when I asked, '
Are you aU right
now ?
'
and she answered '
Yes.' " G. Hilda Pagan.
The case I have next to quote (L. 1106, Journal, Vol.
VIII., p. 319) we owe to Mr. Andrew Lang, who was
acquainted with the family concerned. In form it is a
good reciprocal case, and, moreover, the experience at one
end of the chain was collective. For these reasons it
greatly interested Mx. Myers, who read it and commented
on it at a meeting of the Society on November 4, 1898
(see Journal, loc. cit.). It has, however, certain evi-
dential weaknesses to which I will refer after quoting it.
We have four statements from witnesses, namely :
(L. 1106.)
(1) Narrative of Mary B., cook, attested by Isabella C, house-
maid, and Jane D., parlourmaid. Taken down by J. L. B.
from M. B.'s narration.
On Friday night, December 11th, 1896, about 11
p.m., we were all sitting by the fire in the kitchen. We
heard steps in the passage, coming from the hall and going
along by the nursery door. Jane looked up and asked
if I heard anything. I said, " Yes, I thought I heard
Mrs. Blaikie walking along with her skirts rustling, from
the front door along by the nursery." We had all heard
it. I said I thought it was like a warning, and I said,
" I hope Mrs. Blaikie isn't dead." Then we rose and went
2 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
to the door leading from the kitchen to the nursery
passage, but saw nothing. Miss Frances heard our steps, '
and came out and asked what on earth was the matter.
Miss Frances said she had heard it too, and thought it
was one of us. Then we went upstairs to Miss Jeanie's
room. She had heard it and said she hoped there were
no burglars about. We went all over the house and
looked everywhere but there was nothing to be seen.
We then went to bed and have never heard it again.
We all thought Mrs. Blaikie must be dead.
(Signed) Mary B.
Isabella C.
December \ltli, 1897. Jane D.
(2) On Friday night, December 11th, 1896, about 11
o'clock, I was Avriting, alone, in my bedroom—the first
room at the top of the staircase, which is a low one.
The house was quite quiet, and I fancied the servants
had gone to bed, so that I was surprised to hear footsteps
coming along the passage do\TOstairs. I heard the steps
come from the hall, past the foot of the staircase, and
along the passage known as " the Nursery Lobby." There
they died away, and I heard no more. It was rather a \
heavy, quick, decided step, accompanied by the rustle
of a silk dress, and was so exactly like my mother's that
if I had not laiown her to be in Edinburgh, ill, at the
time, I should not have had two doubts about it. I
wondered which of the servants it could possibly be,
thought I should ask in the morning, and went on writing.
In a few minutes there was a knock at my door, and I
opened it to find three scared and white-faced maids.
They asked me if I had been downstairs, and looked
more scared when I said no. They then asked if I
had heard steps, and when I said " Yes, they sounded
exactly like Mrs. Blaikie's," they told me they had heard
them as they sat in the kitchen, had gone to look in
the hall and passage, and had seen no one. They then
went to the "'
Nursery," the room to which the passage
where the steps were heard led, and asked my sister,
whose bedroom it was, if she had left her room. She
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 413
said No, but had heard the steps. It was very evident
they thought they had heard a ghost, and as my mother
was rather seriously ill at the time, of course they con-
eluded it was hers. We did not discuss this, however,
and I suggested burglars, took my poker, and went with
them in a procession all round the house. We looked in
every room and closet, in every wardrobe, in the bath,
and under every bed, and found nothing. The only
other person in the house at the time, besides my sister,
three maids, and myself, was my elder brother, who slept
in a room upstairs not far from mine. I went to his
room, and found him fast asleep. On being roused up
he said he had not heard anything at all. In the letter
I was writing at the time I mentioned that I had broken
off to have a burglar hunt, and my correspondent kept it,
so that we have in writing the date and hour.
(Signed) Jeanie Lang Blaikie.
HoLYDEAN, December nth, 1897.
(3) About 11 o'clock on Friday night, December 11th,
1896, while undressing in my room I heard footsteps
coming along the lobby towards the door. They were
heavy and rather quick ;
exactly like my mother's, but
not resembling those of any of the servants. I thought
it must, however, be one of the maids, and paid no
attention to them untU the three servants came in a
great state of panic to ask if it had been me. It did not
strike me as being anything supernatural.
(Signed) F. M.
(4) On Thursday (December 10th, 1896), while visiting
my niece. Miss L., 19, M. Terrace, Edinburgh, I was seized
with an acute attack of larjmgitis. The evening of the
next day (Friday, December 11th), about 11 o'clock I
had such a sensation of being suffocated that I felt as
if I were dying, and would never see my home again.
I was suddenly filled with an overpowering longing to be
at home, and whether I feU asleep for a few moments
and dreamed I do not know, but it seemed the next
minute as if my desire was granted, and I felt I was
414 Mrs. Henry Sufgwick. [pARf
actually there. I was conscious of walking along the
passage past the dressing-room door, and towards the
room we call the nursery, but I had hardly time to
realise my own joy and relief when I found myself still
lying in bed, and the feeling of suffocation from which I
had had such a happy respite for a few moments, again
tormenting me. When I returned home a week later I
was told by Jane D. of the curious occurrence at Holydean
on the evening of Friday, the 11th.
(Signed) H. B.
The foUowing are what seem to me evidential weak-
nesses in this case. Mrs. Blaikie's dream (as it pre-
sumably was) was not apparently a very striking one, and
it does not seem to have been either recorded at the
time or spoken of to any one till she heard of the ex-
perience of the percipients at the other end. One wonders
if she would have remembered it, or thought anything of
it, without this. Then again, as to the collective hearing
of supposed footsteps—it is a rather common collective
experience, e.g. in so-called haunted houses, but I re-
member no instance of footsteps being heard by one
percipient only when others were present. This of course
suggests real sounds misinterpreted, and indeed from the
nature of the case the interpretation of a sound like
footsteps unsupported by other evidence must generally be
somewhat doubtful. In the present case there seems no
doubt that five people in three different rooms heard
sounds which more or less resembled Mrs. Blaikie's foot-
steps, and at least four of them also heard a sound like
the rustling of her dress. But out of these five Mrs.
Blaikie's two daughters attached no importance at the
time to the sounds and did not attribute them to their
mother ; and though, on the other hand, the three
servants, who were together and may have worked them-
selves up imaginatively by talking, feared the sounds
portended her death—were, in fact, produced by her
ghost— do not think they can in themselves have been
very striking. For these reasons the case does not seem
to me to carry great weight as evidence of recij)rocal
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 4i5
influence, but it is interesting nevertheless. A case
described above with tlie death coincidences, L. 1141, see
p. 242, should be compared with it.
I will conclude this analysis of our collection with two
cases of reciprocal dreams. In both the dreamers were
in separate houses, and in both the reciprocality seems to
have been very complete ; the dreamers dreamt together
as it were, the dream drama the same for both and each
in his own dream playing his own part.
A letter giving a short account of the case I will first
quote (L. 1188, Journal, Vol. XV., p. 262), and also of a
dream quoted above, p. 301 (L. 1189), appeared in Light
on March 16, 1912. The Editor kindly forwarded a letter
of enquiry addressed by us to his correspondent, with the
result that we received more detailed reports of the
incidents together with some corroborative statements.
The names of those concerned have been communicated to
us, but by their request pseudonyms are used here.
Mrs. " Barnard " writes on February 21, 1912, in a
letter to a friend, which has been sent to us :
(L. 1188.)
Francis and George have had measles at school. I
was anxious about them. . . . On Sunday, February 11,
we were up nearly all night ;
Grace, aged three, had
croup and Baby Betty had influenza. D. [jVIrs. Barnard's
husband] looked after Grace and I the baby. My thoughts
were often with Francis ; twice during the night I lay
down on my bed and slept a httle ; each time I woke
up teUing Francis to be careful of Betty. I thought he
could not sleep and wanted to put his head on my
shoulder and could not because of Betty. To-day [Feb.
21 ^] he WTites, " I only had two nights when I could
not sleep. You seemed quite close aU night, oifly Betty
would come between. You would not put her down.
Do tell me what you did aU Sunday night. You and
Betty were with me aU night. Were you thinking of
me ? You ought to have been asleejD."
1 The letter was received on February 21, 1912.
416 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
Upon the evidence of this letter alone, it might seem that
the date referred to by Francis Barnard was Sunday, Feb.
18, not Feb. 11, but his statement, printed below, makes it
clear that the earher date is meant, when his illness was at
its height.
In reply to a request for his corroboration of Mrs. Barnard's
statement, Mi". Barnard writes in a communication received by
as on April 2, 1912 :
On Feb. 11 we were both up with sick children the
greater part of the night. L. [Mrs. Barnard] had Baby
Betty in her arms all night, sometimes in bed. We
were both worried about the two boys at school with
measles. L. was under the impression that Francis'
head ached. She wanted him to put his head on her
shoulder, but was afraid he would hurt the baby.
Francis' next letter said that his mother was with him
all night, but the baby was in the way. I am very
sorry we burnt the letter for fear of infection of measles.
Francis Barnard (aged 13) writes as follows :
April 15, 1912.
In February, 1912, George and I had measles at school
;
on Sunday, Feb. 11th, I felt very bad and worse as night
came on, and whether sleeping or waking I felt my mother
was close beside me and Baby B. was in her arms and
much in the way. Afterwards I found she had been up
all night with baby, who was ill, and thought and dreamt
of me all night. Slie thought I wanted to put my
head on her shoulder and could not because of B. She
woke Daddy up saying, " Mind B. you Avill hurt her."
When I came home I was very surprised, for this was
just what had happened. The second thing that sur-
prised me was that mother knew that I was in the big
dormitory the third bed from the door. This was just
where I was. No one could have told her. I could not
write, and no one else did. I was moved when I was
ill in there and was not in my own room.
[Signed, Fbancis Barnard.]
LXXXVI.] Collective and Beciprocal Cases ^ 417
In regard to the last part of Francis Barnard's statement
Mrs. Barnard wrote on April 15, 1912 :
No one told me he [Francis] was not ill in his own
room. I all the same knew he was in the big Dormitory
and his bed was the third on the door side. This I told
him the day he returned and he was astonished. I
knew his own room so weU and I have only once been
in the big Dormitory.
It is perhaps of some interest that Mrs. Barnard had
another veridical dream—the one quoted above, p. 301
—
five days after this one. Perhaps the anxiety and agita-
tion she had gone through had rendered her specially
telepathically susceptible at the time.
The other case (L. 986, Journal, Vol. VII., p. 104) was
sent to Dr. Hodgson through Dr. M. L. Holbrook, who
was acquainted with both the percipients. The first
account is from Dr. Adele A. Gleason.
(L. 986.)
The Gleason Sanitakium, Elmira, N.Y. [February, 1892].
The night of Tuesday, January 26th, 1892, I dreamed
between two and three o'clock that I stood in a lonesome
place in dark woods. That great fear came on me ;
that a presence as of a man well-known to me came and
shook a tree by me, and that its leaves began to turn to
flame.
The dream was so vivid that I said to the man of whom
I dreamed when I saw him four days later, " I had a
very strange dream Tuesday night." He said, "Do not
tell it to me ; let me describe it, for I know I dreamed
the same thing."
He then without suggestion from me duphcated the dream,
which he knew, from time of waldng from it, took 2^1ace
at the same hour of the same night.
Adele A. Gleason.
418 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
The account of the second dreamer, written at about the
same time, is as follows :
From Air. John R. Joslyn, Attorney-at-Law.
208, East Water-street, Elmira, N.Y.
On Tuesday, January 26th, 1892, I dreamed that in a
lonely wood where sometimes I hunted game, and was
walking along after dark, I found a friend standing some
ten feet in the bushes away from the road, apparently
paralj'sed with fear of something invisible to me, and
almost completely stupif'jd by the sense of danger. I
went to the side of my friend and shook the bush, when
the falUng leaves turned into flame.
On meeting this friend, a lady, some days aftei-ward,
she mentioned having had a vivid dream on Tuesday
morning, 1 and I said, " Let me teU you mine first," and
without suggestion I related a duplicate of her dream. I
was awakened soon after and noted the time from a
certain night train on a railroad near by, and so am
certain that the dreams took place at same hour of same
night. J. R. Joslyn.
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's enquiries. Dr. Gleason writes :
Gleason Sanitarium, Elmira, N.Y., February 21th [1892].
Dear Sir,—In reply to yours returned, I am sorry to
say that Mr. Joslyn has no notes of the dream, but he
is sure of being waked from said dream by the scream of
the R. R. whistle of the D. L. and W. train passing
here at three o'clock a.m. I am in the country and was
not waked by the train but by the vividness of the
dream, and hghted a candle and noted time by watch.
I send page from my note-book written next a.m.
The occurrence noted has "J. R. J." by the word "dream."
There is really no doubt of the duphcate.
(Dr.) Adele a. Gleason.
[In answer to Dr. Hodgson's question, sent March 3rd,
viz., Am I right in understanding that the record " night
1 No doubt a slip for Tuesday night. January 26th, 1892, was a
Tuesday.
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 419
of dream " and also the initials " J. R. J." were written
the next morning ? Dr. Gleason writes :]
Yes, they were written at the time before I saw J. R. J.
The reason they are crowded in is because I had marked
down the dates on the note-book previously, ready for
experiment in day-time, so I had to crowd the night
event unexpected in. . . . Adele Gleason.
[The note referred to above reads, " Night of dream.—
J. R. J."]
The phrase " experiment in day-time," in the extract
from Dr. Gleason's letter, refers to experiments in thought-
transference which, as Dr. Holbrook informed us, Dr.
Gleason was carrying on with Mr. Joslyn during the time.
It is much to be regretted that we have no record of
these experiments or information as to their success or
otherwise. It seems not unlikely that the fact that they
were being carried on facilitated the dreaming in common.
It was realised by Gurney and those who worked with
him in compiling his book that reciprocal cases are rare
—
so much so that he says, " the number of these reciprocal
cases is ... so small that the genuineness of the type
might fairly enough be called in question." They are
rare in our present collection also, but I nevertheless
venture to think that those we have, not only add to the
evidence for the genuineness of the type by adding to
the number of cases, but that they help materially, taken
in connection with other evidence in our collection, to
throw light on the whole process of telepathic com-
munication. Dream cases though they be, I am disposed
to regard the last two cases quoted, and to which I have
worked up as a kind of climax, as the fullest manifesta-
tions we have in the collection of telepathic communica-
tion. In other words, I think the kind of union of
minds, the thinking and feeling together, here shown
may be regarded as the type or norm of telepathic com-
munication to which all other cases conform in varying
degrees.
420 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
It is in collective cases that this can perhaps be most
clearly seen. Take for instance the collective crystal
vision described on p. 48, where there is movement in the
picture. The percipients here have ideas and images in
common within the limits of the crystal vision, though
the personal element with its emotions and sensations, as
exhibited in the last two reciprocal cases, is absent. It
is generally easiest, I think, to explain the cases of
collective hallucinations and corresponding dreams de-
scribed in the present chapter as reciprocal—as instances
of the two minds working together. And this may still
be so when the process is aided by verbal or other
suggestion, or when some third mind, living or dead,
shares in the process, influencing one or both percipients.^
If this partial merging of the two minds is the true
type of telepathic communication, the degree to which it
takes place in different instances evidently varies enor-
moixsly, or at least its manifestation does. Thus, unlike
the dreams last quoted, the two dreams in L. 1162 (p. 357,
above) were very different from each other, meeting
apparently only in the one point of drowning and rescue
of the wife. I have already pointed out that in the
semi-reciprocal cases of Mrs. Green and Captain Ward
(L. 1150, p. 395, above), and of Miss Steele and Mr.
Burgess (L. 1187, p. 398, above), the evidence carries us
little beyond simultaneous hallucinatory impressions of each
other experienced by the two percipients with (at least
on one side) hallucination -producing force ; and that in
apparitions at the time of death the impression received
by the percipient is usually nothing more than a vivid
idea of the presence of the dying person. There are two
stages in the process of manifestation of telepathic com-
munication at which failure, that is incompleteness, may
occur. There may be incomplete contact between the
two minds concerned ; and when that contact is sub-
liminal, as I imagine is generally the case, there may be
^ This intervention of a third mind must of course occur in veridical
collective cases, e.g. the dreams of the brother's fatal accident (L. 1138,
p. 271 above). And it may have happened in e.g. G. 275 (p. 378), or
L. 1169 (p. 379) in the present chapter, though we have no evidence
of it.
Lxxxvi.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 421
i
incomplete emergence in either mind from the subliminal
to the supraliminal consciousness. The contact could not
be really complete—it could not extend to the whole
content of either mind—without loss of individual per-
sonality, but short of this it may presumably vary in
completeness through all possible degrees. Emergence into
the conscious again varies probably in degree. It cer-
tainly varies in method, as it may occur through re-
membered dreams, through waking hallucinations, through
motor automatism such as automatic writing, or through
conscious but non-externalised waking impressions of
various degrees of definiteness, such as those described
in Chapter II. above. It probably often happens that
there is telepathic communication which does not emerge
into the normal consciousness at all. We cannot there-
fore tell where failure occurs, nor why or how any
particular case differs from the normal type. But this
is, of course, equally true whether we think of the process
as transmission of thought or as merging together of
minds—what we might perhaps call transfusion of thought.
In regarding the merging or transfusion as the normal
type of telepathic process no new theory is involved—nor
any idea not already expressed by other students of the
subject. It is only looking at the subject from a some-
what different angle from that suggested by the experi-
ments with which our investigations almost inevitably
began. In those experiments there is obviously an agent
and a percipient—the agent consciously trying to transmit
an idea to the percipient who is trying to receive it. The
physical analogy suggested by this is some force in the
agent causing something to be transferred through space to
the percipient—we compare the process to radiant energy
like light or heat or sound. Of course we soon realise that
it is not radiant energy—that the analogy must not be
pressed so far ; but the idea of transmission fits many
spontaneous cases {e.g. simple death coincidences) as well
as experimental ones, and we get into the habit of think-
ing in terms of this analogy.
Analogy is a dangerous instrument in reasoning, for the
very reason that it is difficult to keep its limitations in
422 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
mind when using it. But in speaking of psychical matters
its use is almost a necessity. We can hardly think of
concrete things except in terms of the world of space
matter and motion in which we live, and are driven to
express ourselves in metaphor and by analogy. Something
may be gained, however, by using different analogies and
so looking at things from different points of view ; and
that is what I am trying to do in speaking of minds
being in more or less complete contact with one another.
Contact or transfusion is a physical idea just as much as
transference or transmission, and probably represents what
actually occurs almost, if not quite, as imperfectly. But
it has the merit of eliminating the idea of distance and
false analogies depending on that. And the habit of
thinking of what occurs from the point of view the
contact analogy suggests, may, I think, be more fruitful
—
lead us further towards the truth—than that produced by
the transmission-through-space analogy. For one thing it
seems to fit more cases. While applicable to all the cases
which the transmission-through-space analogy fits, it also
fits cases where the idea of direct transfer presents diffi-
culties. For instance, take the case (L. 1127, p. 147,
above) where Miss F. dreams veridically her brother's
place in an examination—there was no known connection
between the examiner and the dreamer, or reason why an
idea should be transferred from one to the other. But
the sister's mind may well have been in contact with the
brother's and the examiner's with that of the examinee
whom he had just examined and placed. Thus through
the brother, in whose own mind the idea never emerged
into consciousness, the examiner and the sister might be
in touch. It fits, too, cases of unconscious leakage where
the idea is so trivial that one does not see why it should
reach the percipient at all, unless some common content
of the two minds, such as might be produced by their
staying in the same house, puts them in contact (see, for
example, L. 1228, p. 315). It fits cases of seeming tele-
pathic clairvoyance, such as Mrs. D.'s mental vision of
Mrs. H. (L. 1152,|'p. 58), where any activity was on the
side of the percipient. It at least makes more compre-
.^1
LXXXVI.] Collective and Reciprocal Cases. 423
hensible the apprehension by the percipient of pubhc
events of general interest, but not special private interest
(see, for example, M.Aut. 104, p. 73), and other cases
where we cannot trace a particular agent. The mental
contact analogy seems, in fact, more elastic than the
transference analogy, and lends itself better to any case
where the relation of agent and percipient is not simple
and obvious. Moreover, I may add, though it is outside
our present province, that if we may assume telepathic
communication with the dead, the contact analogy seems
to fit the case of communications through mediums. For
the communicator in mental contact with his friend the
sitter may through him get into contact with the mind
of the medium—the medium being a person through whom
the communication can be brought out into consciousness.
Some such hypothesis to account for the relation of
medium, sitter and communicator seems to be required.
It is probably only some sitters who are capable of acting
as a telepathic link in this way, which may account for
the more satisfactory communications received by some
sitters than others.
What I have been saying, and indeed this whole paper,
shows what need there is of further evidence to throw
light on the subject of telepathy. And, as we all know,
a further accumulation of well-evidenced cases is required
to convince the scientific world of its existence. So I will
conclude with an appeal to Members and Associates of
the Society to send us all well-evidenced cases, recorded
soon after their occurrence, which they can hear of. If
all our Members took as much pains as some of them do
to look out for, and report fully, interesting cases, our
collection of well-evidenced and convincing telepathic
incidents would, I feel certain, increase more rapidly than
it does, and our knowledge of telepathy would grow with
it. I believe too, that if more people would only try,
we should find that the number who are capable of
obtaining telepathic impressions through, for example,
crystal gazing is greater than we know ; and likewise
that experiment would reveal more people capable of
producing impressions on others telepathicaUy.
3©
424 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
LIST OF CASES QUOTED OR DESCRIBED
IN THE ABOVE PAPER.
Dreams are marked tvith a D.
Cases which are described but not quoted are enclosed in square brackets.
CHAPTER I.
Experimental and Semi-experimental Cases.
No. of Case.
Volume and
page in
Journal.
Interval
between
experience
and record.
Remarks. Page
§ 1. Experimental Cases.
A list of 10 sets of unpublished experiments in thought-transference is given
with their places in the .Journal on pp. 31-32.
There are also two experimental crystal visions as follows, viz.
:
M. CI. 97 IX. 78
VIII. 71
Crystal vision
§2.
M. CI. 93
L. 1215
L. 1216
L. 1134
L. 1126
L. 1208
G. 267
[M. CI. 22
L. 11.52
L. 1164
M. CI. 96
A fortnight
9 days
Semi-experimental Cases. Percipient experimenting.
Crystal Visions.
3 weeks ------
1 year -------
1 day
6 weeks - Spontaneous
At the time Collective -
VII. 124
XVIII. 191
XVIII. 192
XI. 157
X. 134
XVII. 235
X. 170
V. 73
XII. 307
XIII. 130
VIII. 227
Visions not in a Crystal.
Next day Appearance in room -
About a month At a seance
2 yrs. 8 mon. Do. do.
Same day Distant scene perceived
Non-externalised Impressions.
Various A series of impressions
2 days Place of lost object -
Table-tilting, etc.
33
35
40
41
43
45
48
50
64
57]
58
63
71
M. Aut. 104 XIII. 35 At the time Table tilting 73
[M. Aut. 105 XIII. 211 3 months Ouija board 76]
§ 3. Semi-experimental Cases. Agent experimenting.
[ VIII. 90, 99 Next day Hypnotisation at a distance 78]
'
L. 996 VII. 193 I year Willing percipient to come 78
Do. Do. 8 months Do. do. 79
[ VII. 299, 311 At the time Mrs. S.'s diary of telepathic
L. 851 IV. 323
impressions -
81]
1 yr. 8 mon. Apparition of agent - 83
L. 1056 VII. 250 ? 4 years Apparition of agent -
85
LXXXVI.] List of Cases Quoted or Described, 425
CHAPTER II.
Spontaneous Cases in which the Pbrcipient's Impression is not
L. 1157
L. 1172
L. 1102
L. 1103
L. 857
L. 858
L. 859
L. 898
L. 1196
[L. 1192
L. 831
L. 1213
L. 893
L. 1131
[L. 990
L. 1142
P. 285
Volume and
page in
Journal.
XITI. 79
XIII. 284
VIII. 298
XIII. 120
IV. 341
IV. 342
IV. 342
V. 191
XVI. 76
XV. 339
XV. 188
V. 192
XIX. 173
IV. 179
XVIII. 56
V. 172
XI. 80
V. 137
VII. 120
XI. 323
XVI. 29
externalised.
Interval
between
experience Kemarks.
and record.
) 1. Pain transferred.
In same room -
Do. do.
6 day.s -
Next day
10 months
§ 2. Phrases transferred.
Nearly 2 years
1 week
Recently
About 3 years
Next day
3 weeks
Teacher to pupil
Talking in sleep
Percipient recovering from
concussion ...
§ 3. Emotion transferred.
1 month Child percipient
2 years
About 4 yrs. One of a number of experi-
ences of percipient
4. Idea from distant agent.
2|- months
About 6 days
Proposal -
Sending for percipient
5. Motor Impulse.
4 yrs. 9 mon.
5 years
A few months
Impulse to fetch a shawl -
Impulse to play a par-
ticular piece of music
Do. do.
6. Vague impressions of danger.
A few months . . . .
A few months Animal agent ? -
Next day, etc. Landslip in quarry
7. Vagiie hut insistent thought of agent.
Page
91
92
94
95
96
97
97
98
99
100]
101
103]
103]
104
107
109
110
115]
116]
116
119
L. 972 VI. 212 About a year Perhaps reciprocal 124
L. 1199 XVI. 203 9 days Agent dying 126
XIX. 175 A few months Do. -
128]
§8. Thought of agent and his condition.
L. 1125 X. 79 Same evening Agent dying 129
P. 262 IX. 79 2 days Do. - . .
131
L. 1217 XVIII. 193 4 months Agent dying or dead. Child
percipient 133
L. 1176 XIV. 99 5-| weeks Illness . - - .
1.35
L. 1103 VIII. 308 Next day Alarm of fire 137
L. 1144 XII 21 4 years Animal agent 139
L. 1158 XIII, 80 8 days D Animal agent - 141
426 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
No. of Case.
G. 237
P. 269
L. 1127
L. 1160
Volume and
page in
Journal.
§9.
VI. 105
X. 28
X. 140
Interval
between
experience
and record.
Remarks.
True impression. Doubtful agent.
1 yr. 9 mon. D Brother dead
I yr. 10 mon. D Brother's appomtment
II months D Brother's place in examin-
ation . . - .
§ 10. Mental vision nf complicated event.
XIII. 116 3 weeks Carriage accident
Page
142
144
147
149
CHAPTER III.
Waking Hallucination.s and Dreams of the Same Character.
§ 1. Death Coincidences,
(a) Visual realistic—like a real person in percipienC s surroundings.
L. 1226 XIX. 76
L. 1146
L. 980
L. 1223
fL. 1130
L. 834
[L. 1121
L. 1224
L. 1087
[L. 947
L. 1204
[L. 1159
L. 1179
L. 1147
L. 1220
L. 977
L. 974
L. 979
L. 991
[L. 839
L. 978
L. 973
[L. 1108
[L. 1124
L. 1139
rL. 1166
[L. 1175
FL. 1153
L. 1211
[L. 1115
XII. 59
VII. 8
XIX. 39
XI. 58
IV. 213
IX. 306
XIX. 47
VIII. 41
VI. 9
XVTI. 204
XIII. 103
XIV. 295
XII. 99
XIX. 3
Fortnight
11 weeks
Fortnight
9J months
14 months
4 years
About 3 years
1 month
1|- years
Next day
3 weeks
4 months
4 months
3 weeks
3 months
D
D
D
Apparition speaks
Do. do.
Child percipient
Appearance and impression
to different percipients
apart - . . .
Do. do.
Seen by hallucinatory light
Perhaps influenced by
place - . . .
Do. do.
Perhaps influenced by
place. A second figure
seen but not recognised. -
Percipient ill -
Collective - - - -
Request to communicate
(6) Appearance not realistic.
VI. 368
VI. 280
VII. 7
VII. 121
IV. 268
13 months
1 year
4J months
2 months
Nearly 4 yrs.
Promise to communicate
Do. do.
Threefold figure
Shadowy, recognised -
Shadowy, unrecognised
(c) Visual with veridical or symbolic adjuncts.
VI. 308
VI. 249
Vni. 328
X. 33
XI. 278
XIII. 140
XIV. 75
3J years
13 months
A week
2 yrs. 2 mon.
1 week
22 days
5 weeks
D Vision
D
D
D
D Animal agent
D Symbolic -
D. Do
(d) Appearance of relative of dying person.
XII. 317 3 days Twofold appearance
XVIII. 35 Same day D - - - -
IX, 127 AVithin a week D -
152
160
166
167
177]
177
179]
180
183
189]
190
194]
195
196
199
203
205
208
210
213
216
218]
219]
219
231]
231]
231]
232
235]
LXXXVI.] List of Cases Quoted or Described. 427
Volume and
page in
Journal.
L. 929
L. 1180
M. CI. 88
L. 1141
L. 1151
Interval
between
experience Remarks,
and record.
(e) Symbolic experiences.
VI. 181 About 4 years
VIII. 130 A few days . _ . . .
VIII. 134 At once D
(/) Auditory death coincidences.
V. 204 4J years Voice announcing death
XIV. 327 10 days D Death of friend's brother
VI. 293 1 month D Carnot's murder
XI. 320 10 months Footsteps and knocks
XII. 196 11 days Knocks -
§ 2. Coincidence with illness of or accident to agent.
Agent ill.
Page
235]
235]
235]
236
237
241
242
242
L. 1207 XV 111. ^60 3|- years Vision. Repeated 243
L. 1209 XVIII. 19 3 months Apparition. Misrecognition
at first - - - - z49
L. 1088 VIII. 78 2 years Apparitioii on waking zoo
L. 1129 X. 263 6 weeks D Of agent with swollen face - ZO /
[L. 964 VI. 168 2| years D 260]
L. 1195 XVI. 41 4 days D Telegram seen, etc., - 260
L. 937 V. 251 4 months D Symbolic funeral 262
G. 234 VI. 83 A few days D Do. - - -
263
[L. 994 VII. 176 16 days D Do. - - -
263]
[L. 967 VI. 183 11 months Unrecognised call. Some
local connection 264]
[L. 987 VII. 106 1 week D Unrecognised. Rap and
announcement of a death 264]
L. 820 III. 356 2^ years Two percipients, apart.
Apparitions - 265
L. 1210 XVIII. 25 4J months D Two percipients, apart.
Dreams 268
Accident to agent.
L. 1138 XI. 269 5 months D Two percipients, together.
Simultaneous dreams 271
L. 1221 XIX. 7 ? 6 weeks Agent's voice heard - 276
L. 1193 XV. 342 3 days Vision - - . -
278
[L. 989 VII. 108 7 months 279]
L. 992 VII. 125 2 days D Dream of accident, but to
280
wrons sister -
L. 1165 XIII. 136 15 months D Two dreams 282
[L. 1113 IX. 104 7 days D 285]
[L. 1118 IX. 151 6 weeks D 2861
[L. 1178 XIV. 155 1 year D 286]
§ 3. Coincidence with idea or wish connected by the agent ivith the percipient.
L. 1227 XIX. 83 3 months Apparition summoning per-
cipient - - - -
287
L. 1143 XII. 14 4 days Call 292
L. 1177 XIV. 143 Same day Do. 293
[L. 993 VII. 162 4 years Bell. ? Collective -
295]
L. 1222 XIX. 30 9 months Voice. Arrival case - 295
L. 1225 XIX. 56 2 days D Repeated. Do. 296
L. 1135 XI. 177 2 days D Letter case 298
L. 1189 XV. 263 5 days D Do. ... 301
428 Mrs. Hewy SidgioicJc. [part
No. of Case.
Volume and
page in
Journal.
Interval
between
experience
and record.
Remarks. Page
§ 3. Coincidence with idea or xoish connected by the agent with the -percipient. —contd.
302
305
307
308]
308]
309
310
312
L. 1133 XI. 138 3 days D Letter case
L. 954 VI. 103 1 yr. 5 mon. D Do.
I.. 936 V. 246 About 2\ yrs.D Newspaper case
[G. 268 X. 232 10 days D Do.
[L. in--* XIV. 72 1 month D Do.
L. 1)37 XI. 227 About 3 mon.D Letter case
L. 895 V. 173 Next day D Do.
L. 1218 XVIII. 225 3 months D Do.
§4.
L. 1219
L. 836
L. 1228
L. 1191
[L. 1182
L. 1184
L. 1185
[L. 1096
[L. 1098
L. 1168
L. 1173
L. 1183
[L. 1197
[P. 286
Coincidence with idea of agent not connected by him with percipient.
Unconscious telepathic leakage.
XVIII. 227
IV. 221
XIX. 138
XV. 337
XIV. 383
XV. 87
XV. 107
vm. 141
VIII. 145
XIIL 153
XIII. 328
XV. 17
XVL 118
XVI. 51
Nearly 3 mon. D
A fortnight D
Same day D
12 days D
2 months D
2 months D
17 months D
9 months D
9 weeks D
Next day ? D
Next day D
Next day D
14 months
About 5 mon.D
No emotion of agent - 313
Do. - - - 314
Do. . - . 315
Do. ... 317
Do. ... 318]
Do. ... 319
Do. ... 320
Do. ... 321]
Do. ... 321]
Repeated. Agent agitated 322
Agent trying for vision . 323
.\gent agitated - . . 325
Vision. Agent agitated - 329]
Premonition or telepathy - 330]
§ 5. Ambiguous Cases. • •
.
Coinciding event insufficiently marked, or time coincidence unce:rtain.
L. 1109 VIII. 329 5 months Realistic. Three senses
affected 333
L. 1200 XVI. 205 4 days Realistic. Two senses 335
L. 896 V. 174 b\ weeks Realistic. Do. 336
[L. 1073 IV. 2.53 2 days Realistic. Do. 337]
L. 950 VI. 29 About 1 year Apparition unrealistic 338
[L. 962 VL 165 4 months Apparition 339]
[L. 1198 XVI. 149 3 days Vision .... 339]
L. 1156 XIIL 27 2 days Apparition. Perhaps dog
co-percipient 340
L. 844 IV. 289 Next day Dog agent ? Auditory 342
[G. 277 XII. 54 2 yrs. and 6 weeks Bang on door. Collective -
343]
[L. 1190 XV. 289 15 months ? Collective apparition 343]
Agent doubtful.
L. 1212 XVIIL 51 11 months D Concerning son's death 344
L. 1206 XVII. 212 4 days Place of picture perceived
on waking 349
[L. 1119 IX. 227 1 yr. 8 mon. D Place of lost bo.x 351]
M. CI. 87 VI. 264 1 month Explosion heard on waking 352
[L. 1201 XVI. 306 At time Two impressions of sinking
ships .... 352]
[L. 1214 XVIIL 92 Within day or Two dreams of air
two D raids .... 353]
Lxxxvi.] List of Cases Quoted or Described. 429
CHAPTER IV.
Collective and Reclprocal Cases with no Evidence of Agency
external to the percipients.
Interval
Volume and between B -marks. Page
No. of Case. page in experience
Journal. and record.
§ 1. Similar and Simultaneous Dreams.
L. 835 IV. 220 1 month D 355
L. 965 VI. 169 About 2 yrs. D 356
L. 1162 XIII. 119 2 years D 357
L. 1161 XIII. 118 2 days D 3-58
L. 1181 XIV. 381 Same day Child dreams. Mother sim-
ultaneously sees appari-
tion .... 359
§ 2. Collective Visual Hallucinations. Unrecognised.
[G. 200 V. 221 About 3 yrs. Out of doors at dusk - - 362]
[L. 1148 XII. 121 Next day Out of doors in mist - - 362]
G. 241 VT. 145 1|- years At night - - - - 363
L. 842 IV. 286 8 weeks ,, . . - - 364
G. 201 V. 223 If years Poor Ught - - - 367
G. 239 VI. 135 1 year At night - - - - 371
G. 230 VT. 22 9 months Fading Ught - - - 372
L. 827 IV. 71 4 years Man seen fishing - - 376
§ 3. Collective Visual Hallucinations. Recognised.
G. 275 XI. 185 6 months Mother seen at bedside of
dying child - - - 378
L. 1169 XIII. 210 About 2 years Indoors, good light - - 379
G. 286 XV. 249 6 days Apparition of a cat - - .581
L. 959 VI. 131 Next day Out of doors, good light - 387
L. 828 IV. 72 2 months Apparition speaks - - 390
§ 4. Collective Auditory Cases.
[L. 1203 XVII. 118 ? 2 years Music ... - 393]
[L. 960 VI. 139 Within month Recognised voice - - 393]
G. 247 VII. 9 9 months Unrecognised voice 393
§ 5. Semi- Reciprocal and Reciprocal Cases.
L. 1150 XIT. 193 5 weeks One visual, one auditory • 395
L. 1187 XV. 259 8 days Do. do. - - 398
L. 1122 IX. 331 4 days Dreams in different rooms - 404
L. 1149 XII. 173 14 months Dream & Apparition - - 406
L. 1106 VIII. 319 1 year Dream & footsteps heard
collectively - - - 411
L. 1188 XV. 262 10 days Dreams in different houses 415
L. 986 VII. 104 1 month Do. do. . 417
430 J. C. Fliigel. [part
i
REVIEWS.
I. The Psychology of Medicine. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Pp. vii + 187. Methuen & Co. 6s.
" This book," says the author, " is intended primarily for
those readers who have no professional training in either
Medicine or Psychology, but who are anxious to keep them-
selves abreast of modern thought in these departments of
knowledge. At the same time I hope it may prove serviceable
to professional students of these subjects as a preliminary
survey of the ground they will have to cover should they
desire to specialize in i^sychotherapeutics or in the psychology
of the abnormal." To this statement the reviewer may add
immediately that it is admirably adapted to both of its two
main purposes ; it is indeed—within the limits necessarily
imposed by its relatively small size—probably the best work on
its subject existing in the English language. Readers of the
Proceedings are already familiar with the qualities that dis-
tinguish Dr. Mitchell's writings—above all their lucidity and
their impartiality—and will recognise with pleasure that he has
employed these by no means too common gifts to great
advantage in the present volume.
In the exposition of his subject Dr. Mitchell deals first with
the theory of dissociation, as illustrated by the facts of
hypnotism and hysteria, the treatment of these subjects being
historical in form. In his third chapter on Repression he
begins to deal with the concepts introduced by the psycho-
analysts and throughout the remainder of the book (i.e. from
p. 42 onwards) the thought proceeds pretty closely along
psycho-analytic lines : in fact, were it not for the relatively
narrow scope necessitated by a strict adherence to the medical
point of view, this portion of the book could be confidently
recommended as one of the most accurate and illuminating
(but at the same time one of the most concise) introductions
to this subject that are at present in existence. Apart from
the advantages accruing from Dr. Mitchell's special gifts of
exposition, the treatment of psycho-analysis is more instructive
than that to be found in many other books, in that the
LXXXVI.] Reviews. 431
psycho-analytic discoveries and theories are here seen in their
proper historical and scientific settings, and thus appear far less
strange and far-fetched than when presented, so to speak, in vacuo.
The nature of the subjects treated and the order of the exposition
will be readily seen from an enumeration of the chapter headings,
which (from Chapter IV. onwards) are as follows : the Un-
conscious, Psycho-analysis (in which stress is very properly
laid on the distinction between psycho-analysis as a psycho-
logical method, psycho-analysis as a body of doctrine, and
psycho-analysis as a therapeutic instrument), Dreams, the
Neuroses, Psycho-therapeutics, the Prevention of Neurotic
Illness. The reader will find much of interest and importance
in all these chapters, but, in the opinion of the reviewer, two
of them are of quite outstanding usefulness, namely, those
on the Unconscious and on the Neuroses respectively. It is
especially in dealing with these difficult and complex matters
that Dr. Mitchell's power of clear thinking stands him in good
stead. With admirable lucidity the reader is introduced to
the different views that have been held concerning the nature
of the Unconscious, Subconscious, Co-conscious, Subliminal, etc.,
and the relation of these concepts to each other is clearly
indicated. A proper assimilation of this chapter on the
Unconscious should save the student much misconception and
confusion. It is, too, a chapter which may be read with
pleasure and profit by the advanced psychologist as well as
by the beginner. Much the same applies to the chapter on
the Neuroses—a subject that has been rendered obscure by
varying classifications and by the varying use of the same
terms as employed by dilJerent writers. Here also Dr.
Mitchell proceeds to set our mental house in order in an
altogether exemplary manner, and the reader emerges from the
spring-cleaning, feehng not only that the cobwebs have been
effectually removed but that the actual process of purification
has been a pleasure rather than a drudgery.
As is to be expected from the nature of the work and
from Dr. Mitchell's detached methods of treatment, the work
of " post-Freudian " Avriters such as Jung, Adler, Silberer and
Maeder is reviewed in an impartial and on the whole non-
committal manner. Dr. Mitchell, indeed, rather tantahzingly
refrains from any direct expression of his personal opinion on
432 J. C. Fliigel. [part
the questions here at issue, though (especially when taken in
connection with his pronouncements elsewhere) an indication |
of the nature of his own views is perhaps afforded by the fact
that he thinks it necessary to forestall a possible criticism
as to the inadequate pi'esentation of the post- Freudian schools |
by reminding his readers that " the work of Freud is the
foundation on which all subsequent analytical doctrines and
methods are based ; and that psycho-analysis differs from some
forms of analytical psychology in that it adheres strictly to
the principles of science and does not pose as an ethical
system or as an esoteric religion "
(p. 179).
The only serious criticism that can be raised against the
book is that it has the defects of its merits. Written as it
is in Dr. Mitchell's broad, calm and somewhat cautious manner,
it is of necessity somewhat less stirring, trenchant and immedi- '
ately arresting than some similar treatises written from a
narrower point of view. But what it may jjerhaps lack in j
vividness or picturesqueness, it amply makes good by its
tolerance, clearness and conciseness. It is a book to be con-
fidently recommended to all who are interested in the contribu-
tions of Medicine to the science of the mind. J. C. Flxjgel.
II. Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis. By Pkof. Sigm.
Freud. Authorised English Translation by Joan Riviere.
With a Preface by Ernest Jones, M.D. Pp. 395.
Allen & Unwin. 18s.
With the possible exception of the Traumdeutung, this book
is likely to be the most generally read of any of Prof. Freud's
works, and its translation into English by Mrs. Riviere is a
very welcome event. It differs in two principal respects from
most of the author's other works : first, in that (as the title
indicates) it consists of lectures delivered before an audience
who were, it is assumed, receiving their first initiation into
psycho-analysis ;
secondly, in that it covers a wider field than
that of any single previous work of Freud's. These two facts
make it eminently suitable as a introduction to Freud's
writings, and there cannot be the slightest doubt that those
who are approaching the study of this author for the first
time will be well advised to start with this volume rather
than with any of the monographs devoted to more special
i
LXXXVI.] Revieivs. 433
subjects. Not that this book makes any pretence of covering
the whole field of psycho-analysis ;
indeed, it professes to deal
with three aspects of the subject only—the Psycho-pathology
of Everyday Life, Dreams and the Neuroses ; but in treating
these matters it affords interesting sidelights into the other
fields of psycho-analytic application, so that the careful reader
will be well equipped to proceed to the other developments
which are not dealt with (or are at most only touched upon)
in this volume.
Prof. Freud, as his readers have now come to recognise,
commands several distinct styles of writing. Sometimes he
writes concisely but yet with admirable clearness. Occasionally
it appears as if the desire for clarity and ease of exposition
had so triumphed over the desire for brevity that the treat-
ment becomes somewhat lengthy in proportion to the matter
it contains—any disadvantages accruing from this, however,
being largely compensated by a charming intimacy and per-
suasiveness of manner and an altogether delightful lucidity of
expression. But sometimes, again, it is the ojjposite that
happens ; ease of exposition is ruthlessly sacrificed to concise-
ness, and when this mood is on him Prof. Freud gives the
impression that he has condensed into one page of this kind
of writing what would have occupied him for at least ten
pages of his easy-flowing style—with a result that makes
considerable demands upon the reader's powers of concen-
tration. All three of these styles are to be found in the
present book. The middle section on Dreams is wonderfully
clear and convincing, and is in many ways a far more polished
presentation of the subject than is the Traumdeutung itseH.
The first section on the errors and mistakes occurring in
daily life is in our author's most simple and persuasive style ;
the reader is led easily along by the " sweet reasonableness
"
of the argument untU he almost forgets to shudder at the
dreaded abysses of the Tiefenpsychologie that lie ahead of him.
In the third part, however, the easy methods of exposition
are discarded in favour of the condensed style. Nevertheless
this section well deserves the careful study that it demands.
An adequate assimilation of it wfil carry the reader a long
way towards a mastery of the more difficult and often mis-
understood parts of psycho -analytic theory. Furthermore, it
434 F. 0. S. Schitier. [part
will be of almost as much interest to the advanced student
as to the beginner, for nowhere else has Freud given such a
complete and consistent exposition of his attitude towards the
problems of the neuroses.
All three sections give ample evidence of that wonderful
gift of perspicacity into the obscure places of the mind that
has enabled Prof. Freud to throw a brilliant light upon so
many hitherto dark and insoluble problems of human thought,
emotion and behaviour. This authorised translation (an
unauthorised and in many respects inaccurate translation has
already been on the market in America) of this most important
exposition of Freudian doctrine from the pen of the Viennese
master himself should undoubtedly mark an epoch in the
study and understanding of psycho-analysis among English-
speaking peoples. J. C. Fltjgel.
III. Die Besessenheit. By Tratjgott Konstantin Oesterreich.
Langensalza, Wendt & Klauwell. 1921. Pp. vii + 403.
It is something of a new departure in German philosophy
that a professor thereof (even though Tubingen is not one of
the major universities) should be found to concern himself
so seriously and elaborately with the problems of psychical
research as Prof. Oesterreich does in this monumental study
of Possession. In other respects, however, it is a work tyj)ical
enough of German academic procedure. It is enormously
learned, and must pretty nearly exhaust the literature, '
das
gesamte Material,' culled from classical, religious and anthro-
pological sources, with admirable diligence and fullness. It
arranges this material—after a fashion—under headings such
as these :
'
Part I. The Nature of the State of Possession
—
the identity of Possession throughout the ages—its outward
appearance—the subjective condition of the possessed—the
origin and cure of Possession—exorcism. Part II. The distri-
bution of the phenomena of Possession and their import for
the psychology of religion—Spontaneous Possession among
primitive, and more civihzed, peoples—artificially induced
states of Possession among Savages—North Asiatic Shamanism
in relation to Possession—artificially induced Possession among
the civilized, in the past and present.' It takes up a con-
sistently psychological attitude towards this material and
LXXXVI.] Reviews. 435
rightly emphasizes the possibilities of autosuggestion, and the
need for more detailed and psychologically competent observa-
tion on the part of anthropologists. It admits the occurrence
of parapsychical phenomena," and even of '
parapsychophysical
'
(p. 379). But it propounds no constructive theory of the
phenomena as a whole, argues no thesis, and arrives at no
conclusion, beyond remarking that a purely and simply negative
attitude towards the phenomena is no longer possible. And
it has, alas, no index, a fact which detracts seriously from
the usefulness of its compilation.
English psychical researchers will be gratified to note how
closely Prof. Oesterreich's general attitude coincides with their
own, and how ready he is to recognize the work of their
Society. He declares (p. 379) that in the Piper Case, the
occurrence of parapsychic phenomena has been established
beyond question, and quotes at some length from Sir Oliver
Lodge's sittings with Mrs. Piper. Among his other citations
the most curious and interesting case, perhaps, is that narrated
on pp. 369-70 of a Bohemian sculptor, who gives an account
of his possession by the spirit of a Cu'cassian woman, of the
(voluntary) extrusion of his own, and of the return of his
normal self. It is one of the rare but valuable cases that
enable us to apprehend what '
multiple personality '
feels like
from the inside, and is comparable with the Rev. Mr. '
Hanna's
'
classic description in Sidis and Goodhart's book, of how he
re-synthesized his dissociated personalities. Altogether then
Prof. Oesterreich's work is a competent and valuable contri-
bution to the subject of which it treats. F. C. S. Schiller.
IV. Einjuhrung in den Okkultismus und Spiritismus. By Rudolf
TiscHNER. J. F. Bergmann, Munich and Wiesbaden. 1921.
Pp. viii+142.
This book is precisely what it calls itself, viz. an intro-
ductory survey of the whole field of '
occultism,' a term which,
as Dr. Tischner explains, is to be regarded as the best German
equivalent of '
Psychical Research.' It is, moreover, written
in an entirely scientific and critical spirit from a standpoint
closely akin to that of the S.P.R. ; the author is thoroughly
acquainted mth the Proceedings of the Society, and quotes
from them extensively and appreciatively. Altogether his book
436 F. C. 8. Schiller. [part
forms an excellent introduction, though, being as such com-
posed largely of summaries and citations from the primary
authorities, it does not aim at novelties, either of fact or of
interpretation. Nevertheless, references are found to a certain
number of interesting cases, which have not yet been reported,
or at any rate have not yet got into the English literature.
Thus on pp. 33-4 Dr. Tischner tells a story, of his own
knowledge, about a middle-aged official who is liable to be disso-
ciated into '
F I '
and '
F II.' '
F II," who appears to be the
analogue of '
Sally '
Beauchamp and '
Margaret '
Fischer, gave
a very ingenious and conclusive proof of his '
co-consciousness
'
with '
F I.' He was usually enabled to come to the surface
by the intervention of a friend, who was going away : never-
theless he promised to communicate with his friend through
the letters of '
F I.' Accordingly, when these arrived, it was
found that certain letters were thicker than the rest, which
'
F I '
explained by the badness of the ink : nevertheless,
when these letters were put together, it was found that they
made sense and conveyed a message from '
F II '
! One
would be glad to have from Dr. Tischner a full account of
this singular case. The same remark applies to a trance-
composer (p. 42), who appears to be possessed by '
Beethoven,'
'
Schubert,' '
Wagner,' etc., and to be identical with the
'
M. R.' of Dr. Tischner's Telepathy and Clairvoyance, and the
hero of his '
psychoscopic '
experiments. His account also of
the experiments undertaken by him to confirm A. de Rochas's
account of the '
exteriorization of sensibility ' is very striking
(p. 91-2). Only one failure to get the right reaction in a
series of fifty experiments is evidently far beyond the possi-
bilities of chance ; but a fuller account of the conditions would
be desirable. A fully documented account of the Grierson
case (p. 76) would also be valuable.
As regards theoretical interpretation, Dr. Tischner is cautious
and not spiritistic, though he will not dogmatically deny the
possibility of spiritism. He is sceptical about spirit photo-
graphy, without denying the evidence for other '
physical
'
phenomena (p. 104), and he thinks it possible that, in spite
of telepathy and clairvoyance and the disproof of materialism,
there may be no individual immortahty, because the psychic
individual may merge at death into the general '
ocean ' of
LXXXVI.] Reviews. 437
psychic being (p. 89). It may be so, of course, so far as our
present knowledge goes, though it is hardly an alluring or
ennobling theory ; it makes the universal '
psyche '
something
not higher but lower than the individual soul, and has no
explanation of the persistent tendency of psychic being, alike
in '
dissociations '
and in quasi- spiritual phenomena, to take
on a personal form. F. C. S. Schiller.
V. Ueber Telepathic und Hellsehen, experimentell-theoreiische Unter-
suchungen. By Rudolf Tischner. Munich and Wiesbaden,
J. F. Bergmann. 1921. 2nd ed. Enlarged. Pp. iv + 122.
It is not surprising that Dr. Tischner's book, which first
appeared towards the end of 1919, has rapidly reached a
second edition. For it is a lucid and impressive account of
experiments in telepathy and clairvoyance by a competent and
clear-headed medical man who is free from metaphysical
prejudices and aware that it is only upon an adequate basis
of empirically ascertained fact that theorizing is worth while.
The book consists of a brief introduction defining his terms,
and illustrating the present state of opinion in Germany on
the subject, of a clear and concise account of some 180
experiments, Avith a number of mediums, followed by a tabula-
tion and discussion of their results, and by a moderate amount
of theoretic discussion, mainly critical and intended to bring
out that the various physical explanations suggested are vague
and inadequate, and that a psychic explanation (of some sort)
can alone do justice to the facts. The centre of gravity of
Dr. Tischner's book is thus definitely situated in the account of
his experiments, and this account inspires confidence and seems
an important addition to the body of experimental evidence.
The foUowing points seem particularly worthy of note. Dr.
Tischner defines '
telepathy '
in the same way as the S.P.R.,
and distinguishes it from '
clairvoyance '
as involving the
intervention of two minds, instead of one mind and an object.
'
Clairvoyance '
he treats as a generic term, covering, 1. '
crypto-
scopy,' i.e. perception of normally invisible objects in the
medium's proximity ; 2. '
seeing at a distance '
in space, or
3. in time (past or present). He distinguishes further '
psycho-
scopy '
(
= ' psychometry '
) as the insight into the past history
and associations of objects, though, as the objects were usually
438 F. C. S. Schiller. [part lxxxvi.]
more or less elaborately wrapped up, it is not clear Avhy this !
should not have been regarded as a combination of the first j
and third form of '
cryptoscopy.' He also admits (p. 76) that
in one case, that of Ludwig Aub, to which he has devoted a
separate study, the medium exhibits a mixture of telepathy
and clairvoyance, and that in some of the cases here reported
telepathy is an alternative interpretation to clairvoyance.
Subject to these reservations, he tabulates his results as
follows :
(1) telepathic, 5 experiments (with 2 subjects), all
successful ; (2) purely clairvoyant, 74 experiments (with 4 I
subjects), of which 32 can be regarded as completely, and
6 as partly, successful, 36 as failures (either to answer at all
or to answer correctly) ^
; (3)
'
psychoscopic,' 103 experiments,
with 3 subjects, and 50 successes. Altogether 6 subjects were
emj)loyed, all of them amateurs, with one exception, a paid
professional, with whom 70 experiments are recorded. The
longest series, however, was with an amateur, '
Herr H.,' who
was subject to multiple personality (or '
possession '), and at 60
of the 97 experiments performed with this gentleman, one or
more members of a commission, which had been appointed by
a Munich medical society at Dr. Tischner's request, were present,
and kept the record of the proceedings. Five of these gentle-
men are quoted as expressing their conviction of the genuine-
ness and supernormal character of what they had witnessed.
It is evident from this summary that Dr. Tischner has been
remarkably successful in obtaining results which offer no very
obvious handle to hostile criticism. At the same time, he also
has to confess the waywardness of the phenomena and the
impossibility of discovering what are the conditions of success
or failure. His experiments stand as well-attested but un-
comprehended facts, and yield no clue by which real experi-
mental control of the phenomena would seem to be attainable.
And so long as the phenomena remain uncontrollable and
cannot be exploited, they will not appear truly real to the
practical man, while the ordinary man of science will continue
to cherish a strongly hostile bias against things so elusive
and so subversive of the prejudices which his training fosters.
F. C. S. Schiller.
^ Of these 31 occurred, however, in a series of 34 experiments with the chief
medium, when he waf? in bad health.
PROCEEDINGS
OK THE
Society for Psychical Research
I'ART LXXXVII
MARCH, 1923.
FORECASTS IN SCRIPTS CONCERNING THE WAR.i
By J. G. PiDDINGTON.
Ne belli terrere minis ; tumor onmis et irae
Concessere deum.
Introdttction.
Mes. Vebrall, her daughter Mrs. Salter, Mrs. Willett,
Mrs. Holland, the Macs, Mrs. King and Mrs. Stuart Wilson,
have had the goodness to allow a small group of intimate
friends to make a study of the scripts ^ which they have
produced at various dates between March 1901 and the
present time. As a result of the study which we have
devoted to them we have contributed to the Proceedings
of the Society a considerable number of papers, in which
we have set forth and discussed many instances of
1
Parts of this paper were read at two meetings of the Society held on
November 14 and December 12, 1922.
2 I use the convenient word " script " in this paper to cover not only
automatic writing, but table-tilting, planchette writing, clair-audience,
and any other sort of impression or experience duly recorded at the
time.
2 s
440 J. 0. PidcUngtori. [part
coincidence between the scripts of these different auto-
niatists, some of them of a very ehxborate kind. The
more elaborate of these coincidences or cross-correspond-
ences have iisnally been of a literary character, and, so
far as I can remember, have never been treated as having
for their subject a current event. A few cases will be
found in Mrs. Verrall's Report on her own automatic
writing ^ where knowledge of some event in the near past
or future unknown to the automatist has apparently been
disj)layed in a script ; and here and there in our Pro-
ceedings or Journal^ will be found cases where a script
has manifested a degree of coincidence with some event
sufficiently marked to make it worth while to question
whether chance can properly be held to account for it.
Two of these cases only appear to me to be really strik-
ing : one in which knowledge of Sir Michael Foster's
death seems to have emerged in a table-tilting before it
had reached the filters in a normal way ; the other, in
which a script of Mrs. Verrall's exhibits curious coinci-
dences with something which Mr. Edward Marsh did ten
weeks later. Even if all the coincidences are regarded as
beyond what chance may produce,—and I certainly do
not so regard them—the events with which the scripts
show coincidence are generally of a trivial character,^ or
at least of no great or permanent interest. Moreover, the
events with which scripts now and then have shown, or
have been thought to show, coincidences are the subject
of only passing and so to speak casual allusion ; and they
do not form the subjects of cross-correspondences : in
other words, references to them are confined to the scripts
of a single automatist.
Now the event which I believe to be the theme of the
scripts to be discussed in this paper, namely the Great
War, was an event, to put it mildly, neither trivial nor
^Proc, Vol. XX.
2 See e.;/. Proc, Vol. XXVI., pp. 44-46, 48-51; Journal, Vol. XIII.,
pp. 35-40.
^ I do not mean, of course, that the triviality of the event deprives
the coincidence of value as evidence of the supernormal. Far from it :
the very triviality may increase the evidential value.
LXXXVII.] Introduction. 441
of transient interest ; and the references to it in the
scripts are not casual, nor are they confined to the scripts
of a single automatist ; and it forms, moreover, if one
may be permitted to put it in that way, the subject of
an extensive 'cross-correspondence.
At the same time the references to the War come out
most persistently and most explicitly—that is to say, least
cryptically—in the scripts of a single automatist. Before
I set forth the evidence, then, I had better state who this
automatist is, and say something of the circumstances in
which her phenomena started, and something of the
character of her automatism. And when that is done,
I must also say a good deal about the methods employed
in scripts ; for without a general idea of what these
methods are, the reader would often find it difficult to
understand how the interpretation of scripts is arrived at.
The automatist in whose scripts the references to the
War come out most clearly is the lady hitherto known to
the Society by the pseudonym of Mrs. King. Her real
name, the Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton, she now allows to
be disclosed ; but I shall continue to sj)eak of her as
" Mrs. King " for convenience' sake, since in all our
records, indexes, and so forth, the pseudonym and not the
real name has been used. Not much has hitherto been
published about her phenomena. The earliest reference to
them will be found in Proceedings, Vol. XXIX., pp. 1-45,
and the next and, I think, last detailed reference in an
Appendix to Mr. Gerald Balfour's paper on The Ear of
Dionysius in the same volume, pp. 239-243. She has
been a member of the Society for many years, but had
never tried to do script ^ until some six or seven weeks
after her husband's death, which took place early in July
1913, when at Mr. Balfour's suggestion she began to try
to get impressions. Mr. Balfour made the suggestion on
hearing from her that she felt herself to be in touch with
her husband. She started the experiment with no par-
ticular object in view. She did not, for instance, make
1 Very little of Mrs. King's output is in the strict sense automatic
script. She receives impressions, chiefly of a visual or auditory kind ;
find these gbe either records herself, or else dictates to a recorder.
442 J. G. Piddington. [part
any special effort to obtain communications from her
husband. Although in the course of her experiments she
has not infrequently experienced the sense and conviction
of her husband's presence and of his co-operation in her
phenomena, her script affords little, if any, evidence of
his identity. But from the very first it has displayed
coincidences with the scripts of the other automatists,
these coincidences being of a kind which her acquaintance
with scripts printed in the Proceedings or Journal will not
account for. After the first three or four weeks had
passed, she showed the results to Mr. Balfour. He
encouraged her to persevere ; and she has continued to
produce script at frequent intervals down to the present I
time. She has handed either her original records or
facsimiles at regidar intervals to Mr. Balfour, in whovse
keeping they have since remained.
Her early script, like that of all automatists known to
me, is very sketchy and halting and broken, and these
characteristics have not diminished with increasing practice
to the same extent that they have diminished in other
cases. I believe this is largely, if not entirely, due to her
being less dreamy, and more distinctly conscious of what
impressions she is receiving, than are, or were, the other
automatists. Much of her script is cryptic in character :
by which I mean that it consists of broken phrases or
single words, each in themselves intelligible perhaps, but
not intelligible as a whole ; so that, if the whole really
has a meaning, it is concealed in such a way that he who
runs will not read it.
Fortunately, however, all Mrs. King's script is not
cryptic ; and many of the passages from it which I shall
have occasion to quote in this paper are couched in
language which, though not wanting in a certain oracular
vagueness, is on the whole fairly explicit. These passages
were written before the War began, and, as I think,
predict the War. Yet though the language employed
was , as I have just said, on the whole fairly explicit,
and Avas sometimes even quite explicit, neither the auto-
matist herself nor those of us who saw the scripts in
question took them seriously at the time as predictions
LXXXVII.] Introduction. 443
of war.i It was only after the Great War had begun
that their import and importance were reaUsed. How
then, it may be asked, can I be justified in asserting that
the language of these scripts is sometimes quite explicit 1
I think that when the reader has seen some of the
extracts from Mrs. King's script he will not quarrel with
my description of it ; and that if he will take into con-
sideration the tendency of automatists to indulge in
warnings of catastrophes and horrors he will not be
surprised at our paying but little attention to the gloomy
vaticinations of this modern Cassandra. Moreover, the
strength of the evidence very largely depends upon the
putting together of passages in which the same phrase,
quotation, or topic occurs ; and before this sort of syn-
thesis can be satisfactorily performed, it is necessary to
make a careful index of all distinctive words, phrases,
quotations and topics ; and this work was not undertaken
until long after the War began.
This last reason for our failure to read the signs of the
times leads me on to the second subject about which
I said it would be desirable to speak before dealing with
the new evidence : namely, the methods employed in the
scripts.
The scripts produced by our group of automatists are
very numerous, amounting in all to over 3000.
Are these 3000 scripts entirely independent of each
other ? If, as I believe to be the case, there are coin-
cidences between the scripts that cannot properly be
attributed to chance or to normal knowledge : in other
words, if what we call cross-correspondences exist, then it
cannot be said of these 3000 or more scripts that they
are entirely independent of each other.
The published cases of cross-correspondence are not,
however, very mxmerous ; and even if the far more
numerous unpublished cases were taken into account as
well, it might yet be urged that after all they establish
^ As a matter of fact before the War began Mrs. King took many of
what later proved to be references to the War to be references, though
absurdly exaggerated ones, to the linancial dillicuUies in which sjrr.e
friends of hers were involved at the time.
444 J. G. Piddington. [part
only occasional and spasmodic connexions between the
scripts of the various automatists. That argument would
have considerable force if each script of each individual
automatist were really a separate, isolated thing. But
that is not the case. Already in papers published in
Proceedings plenty of instances will be foimd where two
or three, or half a dozen or more scripts of a single
automatist have been shown to form one connected
group ; and now that we have had time to make a
more thorough-going study of the scripts, we can assert
with confidence that the scripts of each automatist are
not independent units, or fall now and again into small
inter-connected groups, but that the entire output of each
automatist is made up of long series of connected groups.
These groups may, or may not, be in turn interconnected :
on that question I am not touching for the moment ;
nor am I now claiming even that these long inter-
connected groups form intelligible wholes. The point
I am stressing at the moment is this : namely, that
whether one of the automatists has produced 50 or 1000
scripts, these scripts are not 50 or 1000 isolated units,
but fall into large groups. This being so, it follows that
while a cross-correspondence between a single script of
A's and a single script of B's on the face of it establishes
a connexion between these two scripts only, in fact it
may involve a connexion between a large group of A's
and a large group of B's. And so it comes about that
a comparatively small number of cross-correspondences may
effect very far-reaching links between the scripts of
different automatists, and create between them a far
deeper unity than the evidence published so far might
suggest.
The elements, i.e. the separate scripts, that form a
group are not necessarily found close together in time :
they may be separated from each other by months or
years. What, then, constitutes the connecting link be-
tween one script and another ? There are different
kinds of links. The clearest and most certain links
are
(a) the repetition of a topic : e.g. the story of Siegfried ;
LXXXVIT.] Introduction. 445
(b) an explicit reference back to an earlier script.^
The next clearest link is the repetition of distinctive
words, names or phrases. These are sometimes quite
meaningless, mere nonsense words or names, such as
" Name," " Overton Charlie," " Memrint," " Smerincon,"
" Thringle." But many are not of this unintelligible
character : e.g. " More suo quisque agat," " Beneath an
alien sky," " The everlasting snows," " Spissa cohors,"
" Per tenebras," "the bended knee." Finally, a link is
often made between two or more scripts by the repetition
of a quotation, or by the quotation of some phrase or
line from some poem or literary passage from which a
different quotation has been made before. But this form
of link presents difficulties, because quotations from
literary passages are not used in a consistent manner.
They are made to serve more than one purpose. Thus,
although there are many quotations from Tennyson's Ode
on the Death of the Duke of Wellington which are no
doubt meant to be read together and to be taken as
references to the subject of that Ode, it does not follow
that every quotation from the Ode should be put together,
for if the communicators wanted to make an allusion to
the Pyrenees and could not effect the allusion otherwise,
they would not hesitate to use the line in the Ode
"Beyond the Pyrenean pines"
for that purpose. Obviously this double use of literary
quotations is likely to mislead, aiid one cannot therefore
1 Cf., for instance, " Now you have it—part was said last night " in
M.V. 419 ;
" Peace on high summits look back at tliat " in M.V. 535,
the reference being to a phrase in a script written ten years earlier ;
" Some time back I said you wanted a four-leaved clover " in M.V.
694 ;
" What was the date of the first script which responded to
Helen's remark about the thread and the spinning—The web of our
life is your Vjirthday motto—Look back at that " in iM.V. 351 ;
" far
from the madding crowd look back to that in H.V. 267 ;
" a suminer's
night—we spoke of that before"' in H.V. 333; "this |is] part of the
same story that we wrote before—it will all be jslaitr in time " in
H.V. 345 ;
passages where there is one pine should be distinguislied
from passages where there are two or more " in H.V. 491 ;
" when it
was written flames of fire that meant the fire on the hearth ''
in H.V.
494.
446 J. G. Piddington. [part
rely on what may be called " quotation-links " with as
much confidence as on the other kinds of links previously
mentioned. Single lines are occasionally taken from a
poem merely because they express a particular idea or
introduce some particular words, and the immediate
context of these lines and the rest of the poem are to
be disregarded. Thus, for instance, Mrs. Salter's scripts
have repeatedly quoted
" The night in her silence.
The stars in their calm
"
from Matthew Arnold's Empedocles on Etna ;
and, as
there had been other quotations from this poem in Mrs.
Salter's scripts and also an explicit mention in Mac
scripts of " Empedocles who gazed in the seething crater,"
one was naturally inclined to connect therewith the
various occurrences of
"The night in her silence.
The stars in their calm."
Yet this synthesis would have been wrong, as is shown
by the following extract from a script of Mrs. Salter's in
which " The night in her silence " appeared for the
eighth time :
,
the paths of glory [lead but to the grave]—the darkness
of the grave—we have used the Elegy [i.e. Gray's Elegy
hi a Country Churchyard] as one of the keys—we find
that in this case [i.e. in Mrs. Salter's case] at least we
can get nearer what we want by drawing on very familiar
passages of Hterature—sometimes the context is relevant
& sometimes the words are merely words—it is not easy
always to make it clear which—Now with the night in
her silence etc. the important words are silence & calm
—
nothing else matters much—the chief point is silence.
" The night in her silence," then, is not to be taken either
as a reference to the story of Empedocles or to the
immediate context in which the words occur in Matthew
Arnold's poem. Nevertheless in a very large number of
LXXXVIT.] Introduction.
cases a quotation from a passage in literature is meant
to imply its context as well.
I said above that one of the two clearest links between
scripts is the repetition of a topic, and I gave as an
example the story of Siegfried. But here, too, it is not
always plain sailing ; for it is often exceedingly difficult to
recognise a topic when it is repeated. Of course if
Siegfried's name or, say, Fafner's, or the name of some
other character prominent in the story is mentioned, the
reference to the Siegfried story is easily recognised. But
the problem is often not so simple as that, for allusion
may be made to some detail in the Siegfried story mthout
any exphcit mention of Siegfried or of anything likely to
suggest Siegfried. This is the kind of thing that happens :
First there will be a plain mention of the sword of
Siegfried ; then a month or two later wiU come a reference
to the divine armour of Achilles ; next a year or so
later the script will say that the shield of Achilles is to
be compared with the sword of Siegfried ; then some
years later a reference to Achilles' armour will be followed
by a reference to " Unter den linden " and the rustling
of leaves ; and then, finally, will come a reference to
Siegfried listening to the voice of the bird which tells
him of the fire-guarded Brynhilde. Now clearly the
Achilles and the Siegfried stories are combined, and the
combination is natural enough ; but why the rustling of
leaves is combined with Achilles remains obscure until one
is led perhaps by the last reference to Siegfried listening
to the bird in the depths of the forest to look up Wagner's
Opera and to find that before Siegfried listens to the
bird he listens also to the rustling of the leaves as he
lies beneath the linden trees. If that kind of thing hap-
pened now and again, chance or ingenuity would no doubt
be a sufficient explanation ; but as a matter of fact it
happens again and again, and far too often for either
explanation to hold good.
There is one other difficulty attaching to what may be
called " topic links." The earliest emergences of a topic
are often very obscure or sketchy. One instance has been
quoted by Mr. Bayfield in Proc, Vol. XXVII., pp. 479-480 ;
448 J. G. Piddingiou. [part
and I repeat it here because it is typical and easy to
set forth. Three of the automatists have independently
quoted from a Nursery Rhyme or Poem called The Fairy
Ship. The references to it in Mrs. Salter's scripts eventu-
ally came out quite unmistakeably ; but her first two
attempts, which I give below, were very wide of the
mark : ^
A fairy boat in the moonlight & a star at the prow and a
mast of silver but the sails are furled (Dec. 16, 1907) ;
and
A knife a carving knife three l>lind mice a single
thread (Dec. 15, 1908).
Tlie topic is then dropped completely for over five years,
when it reappears in the following manner :
a golden boat {drairiiu/ of a crescent 7)ioon) there is a
poem—somtthing about the moon & a golden boat (Jan.
21, 1914) ;
the golden boat—something about tlie masts being of
silver—it is an EngUsh poem—we have tried to quote it
twice before—to sail on the sea—last night the moon had
a. silver rim—three blind mice—yes wi'ite it down—I wish
you could find that poem (Jan. 28, 1914) ;
the masts were all of silver—the crew were mice (Feb. 4,
1914).
These later indications enabled me to trace the poem,
which is about a Fairy 8hip with sails of satin and a
mast of gold, and a crew of fifty little white mice. I told
Mrs. Salter that I had identified the poem, and her script
accepted the identification and explained that the mice
were mentioned merely in order to identify the ship.
Now as there is no mention in the poem either of the
moon or of a star or of three blind mice, it will, I think,
be admitted that the first emergences of this topic of the
Fairy Ship were both obscure and sketchy, and that but
for the subsequent additions would have remained un-
intelligible. The case is very far indeed from being an
isolated or excej)tional one ; the scripts are full of similar
LXXXVII.] Introchiction. 449
instances, and nothing is to my mind more remarkable
in the scripts of the avxtomatists than the persistency
with which obscure and embryonic allusions are followed
up, modified and added to, the wrong points eliminated
and the right ones emphasised, until at long last the topic
originally aimed at but at first imperfectly represented
emerges in a clear and unmistakeable form. This process
may extend over many years, and is evidence of amazing
patience and perseverance on somebody's part. It like-
wise illustrates the remarkable tenacity of the script
memory, for it often involves the repetition of little
catch-words from a script written, it may be, many years
earlier and perhaps never seen again by the automatist.
The script-memory is not absolutely faultless, but it is
nearly so.
As I have just used the phrase " the script -memory,"
I may at this point remark in passing that I shall speak
in this paper of " communicators " and " communications."
I adopt these terms partly because I really beheve that
the scripts are influenced by the group of dead persons
who profess to be the communicators ; but chiefly for
convenience' sake : it being so much simpler to use these
simple terms than to use cumbrous non-committal peri-
phrases like " the inteUigence responsible for the script."
At the same time it must be understood that what I have
said about the methods employed in scripts and the
system of linking one script to another and about the
script -memory is not affected by the question of the
provenance of the scripts. What I have said on these
subjects holds good whether the scripts are influenced by
the dead, or whether they are solely the work of some
stratum of the automatist 's consciousness, or whether they
are a joint product.
What Mrs. Willett has called " cribbing " is another
method that requires mention. By cribbing " is meant
the repetition by one automatist of some phrase or quota-
tion which she has come across in the script of another
automatist. In accordance wdth the instructions of " the
communicators," most of Mrs. Verrall's, most of Mrs.
Salter's, and all of Mrs. Holland's scripts have from time
450 J. G. Piddingion. [part
to time been shown to Mrs. Willett, who has also been
supplied with translations of the Greek and Latin words
or sentences that occur in them. Mrs. Verrall saw many
of Mrs. Salter's scripts, and Mrs. Salter has seen a good
number of Mrs. Verrall's ;
and, of course, all the auto-
matists have, or may have, seen such scripts as have
been printed in the Proceedings or the Journal. Mrs.
Sidgwick has drawn up with great care a complete list
in tabular form of all the scripts seen by, or accessible
to, each automatist, with the dates at which they were
seen or became accessible. By reference to this list one
can tell at a glance when distinctive coincidences between
the scripts of different automatists are, or may have been,
due to normal causes.
It is only, I think, in the case of Mrs. Willett that the
scripts of other automatists were shown on the instructions
of the "communicators." In the other cases, the "com-
municators " may or may not have approved ; but at
any rate they raised no objections. Their object in
getting the scripts of other automatists shown to Mrs.
Willett was to save effort. Instead of having laboriously
to instil into her mind by supernormal means many of
the literary allusions, quotations, and phrases which form
the symbolic apparatus of the other automatists, they
adopted the easier method of letting her become
acquainted with them in a normal manner. At first
sight this proceeding might appear to be a risky one
from an " evidential " point of view ; but though I do
not claim that it has no disadvantages, it is far less
risky than might be supposed ;
for, thanks to the sym-
bolic and cryptic character of the scripts, in the huge
majority of cases a script can be shown with impunity
to the most intelligent person without the smallest risk
of its hidden meaning being revealed to him, unless he
possesses the clue to its symbohsm. A few of Mrs. King's
scripts were known to Mrs. Verrall, but with that excep-
tion none but the few King scripts pubhshed in Proceed-
ings have been seen by the other automatists.
The " cribbing " method has been fairly often used to
effect a link between scripts. Thus, if, while automatist
LXXXVII.] Introduction. 451
A is writing a script, AZ, it is desired to make a link
between AZ and a script of 5's, BY, which has been
seen by A, the Unk is made by the introduction into
AZ of a distinctive phrase out of BY.
On one further point I must touch before coming to
the new matter which I have to set forth ;
and that is
the question of why the cryptic method is employed at
all. Why, for instance, if the scripts want to talk about
a coming war, don't they talk about it in plain terms
that would be understood by any one at first sight?
Or what's the point of referring to legendary characters
like Achilles and Siegfried ? Or why, in the sacred name
of common sense, should reference be made to a Nursery
poem about a Fairy Ship, whose
" Captain was a duck
With a jacket on his back ;
And when the ship set sail,
The Captain he said Quack, Quack, Quack " ?
I suggest that the cryptic and symbolic methods of the
communicators are due in the main to two causes : one
being that they could not usually be explicit even if
they wanted to be ; the other, that they wish to conceal
their meaning from the automatists and to conceal it at
any rate for a time from those who study the scripts.
As regards the first cause, I think it is practically
certain that except on rare occasions, and then only in
the case of some of the automatists and not in that of
all, it is not possible to communicate in plain, direct
language. There is abundant evidence to show that in
a large number of cases the communicators reach their
desired goal by making use of associations of ideas that
exist in the minds of the automatists. They cannot, of
course, entirely control these associations ; but on the
whole they do succeed in directing them into such
channels as best serve their ends. This method obviously
involves a good deal of tmsting and turning ; and there
is necessarily a residuum of mere transitional phrases
which has to be eliminated. In these circumstances it
is evident that plain statements cannot be expected.
452 J. G. Piddington. [part
I do not mean either that the whole process can be
observed in every script, or that every idle and un-
essential association of ideas gets written in the script.
Bnt the process can be inferred from what is observable
in certain cases. Let me suppose that the communicator
has been wanting to introduce into a script a preliminary
reference to the Scene in the First Part of Faust called
the Witches' Kitchen. He knows that in all probability
he will not be able to do so in a direct fashion, and
so bides his time till he shall chance to find present in
the automatist's normal consciousness some idea which
by, so to speak, a slight jjush he will be able to deflect
into the desired channel. One day he discovers the idea
of " Devil's Kitchen " in an automatist's mind, this
particular automatist having recently read in the news-
paper of the death by accident of Mr. Arthur Reid at
the Devil's Kitchen, near Bethesda in Wales. The result
of the communicator's push can be seen in the first
script written by the automatist after she had seen the
report of the accident in the newspaper. It opens thus :
Cosham. Bethesda. Witches—Witches Hitchin Kitchen
—
Read—Wales—Reid.
Tliat is an extract from one of Mrs. Holland's scripts, and
it is the only script of hers which mentions Witches.
This, the first and only reference in Holland script to
Witches, has another interest, for it occurred in the first
script written by Mrs. Holland after the first reference to
Witches had occurred in Mrs. Salter's scripts. The way
in which the reference in Mrs. Salter's script emerged
will serve as a good example of a slightly different form
of the indirect approach to a desired idea common to all
the scripts and especially frequent in Mrs. Salter's. It
emerged in this way :
Toadstools green and yello\\' ou a mossy bank the
witches" brew.
Here, so far as I know, there is no reason for supjjosing
that Mrs. Salter's thoughts had recently been bent upon
toad-stools. They may have been, of course ; but toad-
LXXXVII.] Introduction. 453
stools may have appeared in her script either as the
result of direct suggestion from the communicator, who
found himself able to impress this idea vipon her mind
and thought he could easily lead her on from it to the
idea of witches ; or " toadstools " may be the first im-
perfect apprehension by the automatist of the idea of
Witches with which the communicator was seeking to
impress her.
I began my first illustration of the process by which
ideas attain expression in the scripts by supposing that
the communicator wanted to work in a preliminary,
embryonic reference to the Witches' Kitchen in Goethe's
Faust, and showed how in my opinion he did this in a
script of Mrs. Holland's. Let me now suppose that the
communicator wishes to continue the Faust topic and to
introduce it into the script of an automatist who has had
no previous allusion to that topic. He proceeds in this
instance on the same lines as he did when he made use
of Mrs. Holland's reading of the newspaper account of the
accident at the Devil's Kitchen. Mrs. Willett has recently
been reading the volume of Myers's poems called The
Renewal of Youth. Nothing, of course, could afford an
easier transition to the story of Faust than the words
" the Renewal of Youth " : so easy indeed is the tran-
sition that, as will be seen when I quote the relevant
extract from Mrs. Willett's script, the automatist at first
appears to have arrived at the Faust topic per saltuvi,
and only on second thoughts retraces her course and
leaves a record of the bridge whereby she made the
crossing. The extract from Willett script is as follows :
Mephistof No The ReneAval of Youth Yes Faust.
It is, of course, possible that the automatist got the idea
of Mephistopheles first of all, and that it was the thought
of Faust's compact Avith Mephistopheles that brought back
to her mind .the title of the volume of poems she had
been reading ; but there are enough analogous cases in
the scripts where the transitional idea has got recorded
out of place—that is to say, after instead of before the
idea to which it had led—to make me fairly confident
454 J. G. Piddington. [PABT
that it was the recently read Reneival of Youth that
suggested Faust and Mephistopheles and not vice versa.
So far I have illustrated only how a single desired
topic may be reached. But scripts do not as a rule
consist of a single topic ;
they usually consist of a com-
bination of two or more topics. The second topic is, or
appears to be, very often introduced fer saltum, and
without any transition by means of associations of ideas.
I think it really often is so, and that when once an
automatist is under way it is easier for the communicator |
to go ahead and impress his ideas directly on her. But j
often too, I suspect, the ideas that have served as a
means of transition, though they have really passed
through the automatist's mind, have not got recorded ;
— j
the automatist possibly realising in some vague fashion
that they were not deserving of record. Nevertheless
these " bridges," if I may so call them, do often appear
in the record. Let me illustrate what takes place by an j
imaginary example. The communicator, we will suppose,
wants to combine the Faust topic with the topic of Dido
and Aeneas. He will very likely achieve his purpose by
means of literary associations somewhat in this wise :
The witches' brew—spells and potions—Faust—the en-
chanted herbs that did renew old Aeson ^
—In such a night
the moon shines Ijright—In such a night stood Dido with
a willow in her hand ^
—That's better.
And then let us suppose that he wants to go on to
combine with the Faust and with the Dido and Aeneas
topics the Siegfried topic. In that case the script will
continue something like this :
In such a night stood Dido with a willow in her hand—
•
That's better—The willow tree—under the shade of the
willow—and the linden shade too—Who lay under the
linden trees ?
But, it may be objected, in your first instance where you
combined the Faust topic with the Dido and Aeneas I
1 Shakespeare, Merchant of Venice, Act V., Sc. i.
^ See above, p. 447, for Siegfried lying under the linden trees,
LXXXVII.] Introduction
.
455
topic, you had to introduce the allusion to Medea renewdng
old Aeson, and how is one to tell that the Medea and
Aeson story is not only an unimportant but an entirely
irrelevant excrescence ? An answer to this objection has
been given in the scripts, not in response to our enquiries
but spontaneously. It is to this effect : that the essential
topics are distinguished by emphasis and by reiteration,
and that the unessential and irrelevant associations and
transitional phrases can be recognised by their not being
emphasised or repeated. Thus in my imaginary instance
the idea that was really wanted, namely " In such a
night stood Dido with a willow in her hand," is not only
emphasised by the addition of the words " That's better,"
but it would be repeated at least once in a later script,
and very likely much oftener than once ; whereas the
idea that was not really wanted, except in so far as it
served as a means of transition, namely " the enchanted
herbs that did renew old Aeson," is not emphasised and
would not reappear in later scripts.
If such methods as these are largely employed, and I
have no doubt that they are, it almost inevitably follows
that the communications are of a cryptic character,
whether the communicators wish them to be or not. But
I have already suggested that the communicators intended
the communications to be in the main cryptic. We do
not pretend to understand all the scripts, but we do under-
stand enough to realise that they contain matter of so
private a character that it cannot be published for a long
time to come ; and we understand enough to appreciate
why the communicators may have thought it wise to
conceal tlieir meaning for a considerable period from the
investigators and essential to conceal it from the auto-
matists until their task is completed. In deciding now
to divulge something of the contents of the scripts we
have been guided by the consideration that the matter
divulged is not of a private character but concerns public
events.
My surmise that the communicators wished to hide
their meaning for a time from the investigators as well
as from the automatists is not, so far as I can remember,
456 J. G. Piddington. [part
supported by any explicit assertion in the scripts them-
selves, though there is a good deal to suggest that they
did so desire. That they meant to hide their meaning
from the automatists is undoubted ;
and, besides the con-
fidential nature of a great part of the communications,
they had the best of reasons for keeping the automatists
in the dark. It must be borne in mind that though
some of the automatists sometimes go into trance, the
great bulk of the scripts has been produced when they
have been in a state little removed from the normal.
Although there is probably always some degree of dis-
sociation, the cleavage is generally of too slight a nature
to prevent them from being put on the alert if the name
of someone known to them emerges, or tries to emerge,
in the script ; or if something is said which would seem
to them when in a normal state improbable or incredible.
It is certain that the automatists inhibit, some more and
some less, but all to some extent. Several jib in par-
ticular at the mention of real persons. Others, Mrs.
Verrall particiilarly, fight shy of anything that seems like
an attempt at prophecy. Mrs. Salter on one occasion-
having apparently shown reluctance to write down a
particular quotation in a particular context is reproached
by the communicator in the folloAving terms :
never mind if you don't see the connexion—put down
everything you sometimes let your literary tastes hamper
—this is not a book of the hundred best quotations.
Mrs. Willett is told not to keep on saying to herself
" what awful bosh this is," and similarly to Mrs. Verrall
are addressed the words : "no don't say '
obvious non-
sense.' " From these examples it is clear that the auto-
matists are reluctant to set down, not only what appears
to them to be improbable or incredible or of the
nature of a prophecy, but also what strikes them as
nonsensical. Nor are these inhibitions to be wondered
at, for the automatists whose scripts I am discussing are
people of rather exceptional intelligence, not in the least
credulous or silly, but well-educated, sensible, critical
and sceptical, and distrustful of their powers—not always
LXXXVII.] Introduction. 457
distrustful, of course, because, if they were, they would
probably never produce anything of value, but apt to be
beset -with misgivings as to the genuineness or value of
their scripts.
The communicators would, I am convinced, have failed
grievously had they attempted as a general rule to convey
their messages in plain language through siich automatists
as these.^ As a general rule, I say ; for that they can
sometimes with some of the automatists, if not all, employ
very plain language is certain. But in the main, as
I have said and repeat, their chief method of com-
munication is symbolic and cryptic.
The point in these introductory remarks on which
I wish to lay the chief stress is the one about the linking
together of scripts by means of the repetition of topics
and of distinctive words, phrases and quotations. And
on this subject I have one more word to say in order to
forestall an objection which is almost certain to suggest
itself to many readers. Is there any reason for supposing
these so-called links to be purposive ? May they not be
merely vain repetitions without purpose and design 1
I cannot here produce the evidence, the very voluminous
and detailed evidence, on which I rely to meet this
objection ;
and must confine myself to stating the con-
clusion at which we have arrived after long study of the
scripts. Not once or twice, but again and again it has
been found that if scripts containing common hnks are
put together, although on the face of them they have
nothing in common except these links, they make sense
when the proper clue is found. And here I must define
what I mean by " make sense,"' and by " the proper
clue." By " they make sense " I mean one or both of
two things : various phrases, names of persons or places,
quotations, drawings, etc., found in a group of linked
scripts, which are apparently but a mere jumble, will be
found united in some literary passage, the coincidences
with the passage being far too exact and distinctive to
be due to chance. If that happened once or twice,
chance might be a sufficient explanation ; but when it
^ See King 46, on p. 466 helow.
458 J. G. Piddington. [part
happens scores of times, and when the longer the study
of the scripts is pursued the larger grows the number of
such coincidences, design becomes a certainty. Or, if a
group of linked scripts does not find its interpretation in
a literary passage, then it may find it in real events
unknown to the automatists but known to the investi-
gators. But often there is a twofold applicability : that
is to say, the disjecta viemhra found in a group of linked
scripts prove to be fragments of a literary passage, and
this literary passage proves to have meaning when applied
to real events unknown to the automatists. Sometimes
it happens that we realise the applicability of the united
fragments to the real event before we realise that they
also fit a literary passage. Sometimes, and more fre-
quently, we discover the literary passage without seeing
to what real event it applies. Thus one of the most
frequently repeated links in Mrs. Verrall's scripts is the
Greek letter Sigma, often united with a reference of one
kind or another to a spiral. These " Sigma " scripts had
long puzzled us, and it was not till 1914 that I found
an explanation—a partial explanation, that is to say—of
them. They are based upon two literary passages : one
a passage in Fors Clavigera and the other a Fragment of
one of the Greek dramatists. That these two literary
passages do lie behind these " Sigma " scripts is certain ;
but why the commiuiicators should have wished to refer
to these two passages was an entire mystery to us all
until a year or more later, when, for the first time, we
were informed of a fact known to only a very small
number of living persons. Of the few to whom the fact
was known Mrs. Verrall was most certainly not one. In
other cases Avhere the literary basis of the allusions in
scripts has been traced, the inner meaning remains un-
intelligible ; but from our past experience we feel con-
siderable confidence that they are not mere literary
conundiiims, but are generally intended to have a bearing
on the subject of the communications. I say " generally
"
because there are exceptions to this rule. An important
exception is the " Ear of Dionysius " case. Here we
have an instance of a literary conundrum which has no
LXXXVII.] Introduction. 459
bearing on the general subject of the communications
;
though even so, it is not a hterary conundrum pure and
simple, because one of the objects of the conundrum is
to furnish evidence of the identity of the professing
communicator, A. W. Verrall.
It must not be thought that all the literary passages of
which use is thus made in the scripts are drawn from
works so well known and easily accessible as Ruskin's
Fors Clavigera or Gray's Elegy or Tennyson's Ode on the
Death of the Duke of Wellington. Many such well-known
works are utilised ; but some are taken from out-of-the-
way books, or from little-known passages of writers who
may not be obscure but who are little read. It is often
by pure chance that we come upon these last, it not
being possible apparently for the communicator in most
cases to indicate the name of the avithor or of the work.
Some of these passages are, I am convinced, unknown to
the automatist or automatists whose scripts contain refer-
ences to them. Study of the " Ear of Dionysius " case
will reveal how references to literary passages unknown to
an automatist can be introduced into her scripts.
Foreign readers, unacquainted with the enormous in-
fluence that the Authorised Version has had, since its
publication in 1611, not only on our literature but on
our everyday speech, may be astonished at the large
number of Biblical quotations and allusions to be found
in the scripts of all the automatists. It may accordingly
be as weU to explain that the use to which the Bible is
put in the scripts is purely literary, and in no way
dogmatic. It is used, in fact, exactly as is Vergil, or
Shakespeare, or Euripides, or Goethe, or Victor Hugo.
The Bible may be quoted in order to convey a moral
lesson ; but then so too are the writings of pagan and
secular authors.
The only abbreviations used in this paper that need
explanation are the following :
—
•
M.V.=Mrs. Verrall
;
H.V.=Mrs. Salter, formerly Miss Helen Verrall;
W.=Mrs. WiUett;
K. =Mrs. King.
460 /. G. Piddington. [part
To decide what to admit into the extracts from pre-
War King scripts that follow, and what to exclude from
them, has been a task of no small difficulty. It would
have been easy, but misleading, to exclude all the rubbish
and all the dubious or irrelevant matter. It would have
been equally easy to include everything, had I been in-
different to the reader's feelings. In my attempt to give
a fair idea of what Mrs. King's scripts are like, I have
deliberately left in a good deal of what I feel sure is
really rubbish, and a good deal of what may not be
rubbish but has probably no relevance to the War or its
sequel.
In conclusion, I would ask the reader not to form an
opinion of the value of Mrs. King's pre-War scripts until
he has acquainted himself with the scripts of the other
automatists discussed in this paper.
T.xxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 461
WAR REFERENCES IN PRE-WAR KING SCRIPTS.
Oct. 18, 1913 ... Tell Gerald that Behemoth was
what I meant.
^
Oct. 25, 1913 (29) . . . The dawn is coming ^
—White
robes herald it Yon haven't got
what I want a bit Try once more
Come thou from yon great dawn to
me From battles vanquished con-
quests 3 Not quite right but the
idea is there . . .
Oct. 26, 1913 (30) . . . Now about the Dawn—the dawn
of knowledge is here, the dawn of
deeper understanding—no it is not
aU joy—joy only to those who can
renounce and aspire . . .
Mercy and truth * fortitude . . .
Oct. 27, 1913 (31) . . . Blue dawn—The dawning of
love—the dawning of desire the
dawn of knowledge—the dawn of
1 Possibly cf. "Leviathan" in K. 119; but see under
" Behemoth and Leviathan," pp. 510-513 below. By " Gerald
"
Mr. Gerald Balfour is meant.
2 For "Dawn" see K. 30, 31, 33, 34, 65, 66, 71, 121, 161,
165, 174 ; and see all quotations from Clough's poem Say not
the struggle.
3 From a poem called A Woman's Voice by A. E. :
" Come thou from yon great dawn to me
From darkness vanquished, battles done."
The poem as a whole has no relevance. " Out of the van-
quished darkness comes joy " m K. 34 is another allusion to
these two lines.
* Cf. K. 64, 164, 204 ; and perhaps " be merciful to the
stricken hind " m K. 184. For the meaning of this topic see
pp. 528-534 below.
462 J. G. Piddington. [part
nearness—the dawn of success—the
dawn—the dawn—the dawn ^ . . .
Golden dawn—The heroes of old—the
conquests of new worlds—that's the
point. Asgard the heroes of ^—
-
that's right. The heroes show the
way ...
^ Probably reminiscent of Tennyson, In Memoriam, xcv. :
" And suck'd froin out the distant gloom
A breeze began to tremble o'er
The large leaves of the sycamore
and said
'The dawn, the dawn,' and died away;
And East and West, without a breath,
Mixt their dim lights, like life and death,
To broaden into boundless day."
Cf. H. V. 173 quoted on p. 507 below under " AU is well."
^ The Heroes of Asgard is the name of a book by A. and E.
Keary. Mxs. King knew the book by name, but has never
read it. Cf. K. 38. See the following passage in Matthew
Arnold's Balder Dead, where Balder, the Sun God, is speaking
to Hermod, the deity who welcomes to Valhalla all heroes who
fall in battle :
"Tor I am long surce weary of your storm
Of carnage, and find, Hermod, in your life
Something too much of war and broils, which make
Life one perpetual fight, a bath of blood.
Mine eyes are dizzy with the arrowy hail ;
Mine ears are stunn'd with blows, and sick for calm.
Inactive therefore let me lie, in gloom,
Unarm'd, unglorious ; I attend the course
Of ages, and my late return to light,
In times less alien to a spirit mild, .
.
In new-recover'd seats, the happier day.'
He spake ; and the fleet Hermod thus replied :
—
'
Brother, what seats are these, what happier day ?
Tell me, that I may ponder it when gone.'
And the ray-crowned Balder answer'd him :
—
'
Far to the south, beyond the blue, there spreads
Another Heaven—the boundless—no one yet
Hath reach'd it ; there hereafter shall arise
The second Asgard, Avith another name.
Thither, when o'er this present earth and Heavens
The tempest of the latter days hath swept,
T.xxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King ScripU. 463
Oct. 29, 1913 (33) . . . Take your mind your will your
heart and turn them towards the
dawn, desire the dawn—think of it
now—think of the steahng of light
over the darkness —how slow it is
and gradual
Now grows the hght of coming day
—jocund day ^
—you can hardly guess
how we long for you all to under-
stand more—we know how it will
help everything—there is a big pur-
pose behind which we serve blindly
yet knowing we serve . . .
Oct. 30, 1913 (34) . . . Out of the vanquished darkness
comes joy—and joy not alone for
you but for many others. It is not
a mere question of knowledge but of
new life—new practice—a new leap
of the spirit "
—slowly slowly the new
light will dawn upon you ^
—some of
you are nearly ready I think—we
have waited many many years trying
here, trying there, failing over and
over again I am hopeful now but
there are a lot of mischances to
reckon with . . .
And they from sight have disappear'd, and sunk,
Shall a small remnant of the Gods repair ;
Hoder and I shall join them from the grave.
There re-assembUng we shall see emerge
From the bright Ocean at our feet an earth
^Nlore fresh, more verdant than the last, with fruits
Self-springing, and a seed of man preserved,
Who then shall live in peace, as now in war.'
"
There are several allusions, not only in King but in M.V., H.V.,
and Wilson scripts, to the Twihght of the Gods.
' First emergence of Clough's Say not the struggle. See
footnote (2) above, and footnote (28) below.
^Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet, Act III., Sc. 5.
9Cf. K. 125.
464 /. 0. Piddington. [part
Nov. 1, 1913 (37) . . . How beautiful upon the moun-
tains Come forth ye beloved of
the Lord Make ready the way
make straight the path Out of the
great darkness comes the great light
Cast off your burdens Prepare
prepare ye the way of the Lord
Nov. 3, 1913 (38) He [i.e. Mr. Gerald Balfour] is now
between high rocks and afraid men-
tally to leave the stream whereas if
he would but climb the high banks
and believe he would see a new
Asgard . . . . The world needs
more light now—the mind of man is
awaking and it is more afraid than
it need be. It does not realise its
own power how it can transform the
world for itself . . . .
Nov. 6, 1913 (42) . . . France—the French —let him
^° Isaiah lii. 7 :
" How beautiful upon the mountains are the
feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace."
Cf. K. 182.
11 Not, I think. Biblical.
12 Isaiah xl. 3 :
" The voice of him that crieth in the
wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in
the desert a highway for our God."
1^ Probably reminiscent of Isaiah ix. 2 :
" The people that
walked in darlmess have seen a great light : they that dwell
in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light
shined."
1* Cf. " Lay down the burden " in K. 177.
1^ For the New Asgard see footnote (6) above. I do not
think there is any poiat at all in mixing up Mr. Balfour with
the topic of the new Asgard.
1^ This is probably reminiscent of the passage in Romans xiii.
quoted in footnote (21) below.
" Cf. " the Roman toga—the transformation " in K. 182 ;
and for the meaning of the Roman toga see pp. 556-559 below.
18 Cf. "the French army" in K. 128.
Lxxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 465
not forget nearer comes the - - - -is
[sic] Ah you are tired, we must
stop . . .
do not fear ^°
—be steadfast and re-
member Love Love is the Lawgiver.
Nov. 6, 1913 (43) . . . There is a song of most glad
new cheer coming but it will not
be understood except by a few—
a
very few—we few—we band of
brothers —We must lay the founda-
19 (~i£
Faint intimations of a coming—(can't get the word).
The flight in winter " in K. 100.
20 Qf " ]?ear not the' all about you should crumble " in K. 64.
" Fear not—be not afraid—all is well " in K. 107.
" Be not dismayed " in K. 72.
" You must not fear—never fear or flinch " in K. 125.
" Do not be in the least afraid all will be well—you
need not fear " in K. 136.
" Be not afraid—all is well " ua K. 182.
" Be afraid of nothing " in K. 202.
" The lurid dawn—but be not afraid " in K. 206. >
" Let not famine or war affright thee " in K. 207.
Rom. xiii. 8-12 :
" Owe no man anything, but to love one
another : for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law . . ,
Love worketh no ill to his neighbour : therefore love is the
fulfilling of the law. And that, Imowing the time, that now
it is high time to awake out of sleep : for now is our salvation
nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent, the
day is at hand : let us therefore cast off the works of darkness,
and let us put on the armour of light."
Cf. " The world needs more light now—the mind of man is
awaking " in K. 38, " buckle on the armour of hght " in
K. 121, " Put on the armour of light—buckle on the shield
"
in K. 206 ; and see K. 185.
^^Shakespeare, King Henry V., Act IV. Sc. 3: part of King
Henry's speech before the battle of Agincourt
:
" This story shall the good man teach his son ;
And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by.
From this day to the ending of the world.
But we in it shall be remembered,
—
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers."
This is not, I think, a War allusion. By " we band of
brothers " I understand the communicators to be meant. In
K. 128 "the band of brothers" is probably used as a War
reference. See pp. 508-509 below.
466 J. G. Piddi7igt07i. [part
tions very sure—no high reaching
temples yet but long and patient
setting of the corner stones—the
fabric must stand secure . . .
Nov. 10, 1913 (46) . . . (After advice about conditions
favourable to the reception of im-
pressions) Now let us have another
try.
Drake—the drum—and danger
. . .Why were you so afraid ?
(Mrs. King answers mentally : "It's
so queer, and I am afraid of my
own suggestibility.")
Yes I suppose you are right—^We
always tend to forget the difficulties.
You see you are beginning to under-
stand why we never—or rarely
—
venture to say things directly . . .
2^ "-Drake—the dram," etc., alludes to the story that Sir
Francis Drake's drum is heard when danger of invasion
threatens England. Cf. Sir Henry Newbolt's poem Drake's
Drum :
"'Take my drum to England, hang et by the shore,
Strike et when your powder's runnin' low ;
If the Dons sight Devon, I'll quit the port o' Heaven,
An' drum them up the Channel as we drummed them long
ago.'
Drake he's in his hammock till the great Armadas come,
(Capten, art tha sleepin' there below ?),
Slung atween the round shot, listenin' for the drum.
An' dreamin' arl the time o' Plymouth Hoe.
Call him on the deep sea, call him up the Sound,
Call him when ye sail to meet the foe ;
Where the old trade's plyin' an' the old flag flyin'
They shall find him ware an' waldn', as they found him
long ago !
"
I have inserted the context of " Drake—the drum " partly
because of Avhat is said about the necessity of circumventing
the automatist's suggestibility, and partly to illustrate how a
phrase possessing evidential value is sometimes slipped in
between unevidential matter. A similar instance will be found
in K. 92 where " the crossed swords " turns up for the first
time sandwiched between unevidential talk.
Lxxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 467
we must not be too definite and
suggestive or off you all go sailing
along on your own breezes instead
of ours . . .
Nov. 12, 1913 (48) . . . Leave off now we shall not do
much more—There is only one thing
—Lest we forget ^*
—the drums and
fifes -5 a bog of stars ~^ In Ireland
there is bloodshed under the moon
—
2* Kipling, Recessional. Cf. K. 71, and "the far flung
foam " in K. 72, which the automatist herself took to be an
incorrect reminiscence of Kipling's " our far-flung battle line."
This poem is once quoted in Mrs. Willett's script before the
War ; and after the outbreak of war six times in Mrs. Salter's
script. Mrs. Salter's first quotation appears in the form " the
far-flung line " ; and curiously enough this exact misquotation
of " our far-flung battle line " had occurred earlier in King 209,
of Oct. 6, 1914, in the following context :
" the flight in winter—the far flung line, the fancied
superiority—none of you understand the deeper significance,
the ^^•ar of spiritual forces—the regeneration of a nation,
the German nation."
Even apart from the help given by this extract, one would
naturally have assumed that quotations from Kipling's Reces-
sional are used to intimate that sjoiritual forces are greater
than anything in the realm of physical force :
Non tali auxilio nec defensoribus istis
Tempus eget.
25 "The sound in your ears of drums and fifes and hosts
marching to battle " ui K. 130 ; and " the pomj) and panoply
of War . . . Din of battles Mortals in contest . . . Sound
the trumpets Beat the not ploughshares [i.e. " Beat the
drums " from Dryden's Alexander's Feast] One crowded hour
of splendid life [i.e. " Sound, sound the clarion, fill the fife.
One crowded hour of glorious life " etc. from the lines that we
must no longer call Walter Scott's] " in WiUett 225, of Nov.
13, 1910.
For other references to Drums, see " Drake—the drum " in
K. 46, "listen to the drums roUmg rolling" in K. 111. "The
drums were not there really," following a War reference in
K. 99, may mean that the drums are to be understood sym-
bolically and not literally.
2^ " A bog of stars " is the title of an Irish story by Standish
O'Grady. It has jorobably no relevance except in so far as it
468 G. Piddingion. [part
In Ireland the souls of men are
swaying restlessly gathering and
gathering in pace—there will be
much distress and misery. Out of
it comes nothing worthy—Consider
how good a thing it is Brethren to
dwell together in unity—Unity—the
precious ointment . . .
Nov. 22, 1913 (58) Far off through creeks and inlets
making
Comes silent flooding in the main.
You seem no painful inch to gain
but all the time we are gaining
—
slow how slow, but the light is
coming not through Eastern windows
only—see the West is bright. Keep
up a good heart . . .
serves to introduce an allusion to Ireland. During the Avhole
period covered by the King pre-War scripts the Irish situation
was critical. Tiae prediction in the script has, no doubt,
proved true enough ; but a gloomy prophecy about the course
of Irish politics is so likely to prove true that little—though
I do not say, no—importance can be attached to it. If,
however, I am right in regarding " Lest we forget " and " the
drums and fifes " as belonging to the references to the War,
I think it is significant that they should be followed by
references to the disturbed condition of Ireland, for beyond
doubt we were hampered in our conduct of the War, and in
other respects as well, by the existence of open or covert
rebellion in Ireland. In K. 136 will be found another possible
or probable allusion to the Irish crisis.
Psalm cxxxiii. 1, 2.
^^Clough, Say not the struggle naught availeth. See footnotes
(2) and (7) above ; and cf. K. 64, 128, 144, 165. Quotations
from this poem occur at least eight times in King scripts
subsequent to the outbreak of war. The poem has been much
quoted in the scripts : five times in Mrs. Salter's pre-War
scripts, and three times subsequently ; twice in Mrs. Verrall's
pre-War scripts ; twice in Mrs. Willett's, and three times in
Mrs. Holland's. Whether it is always used with reference to
the War or to the eventual outcome of the War, I cannot
say ;
but I am inclined to think that as a general rule the
first two verses with their military metaphors are used in a
more or less literal sense to suggest a long-drawn struggle
Lxxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 469
Nov. 23, 1913 (59) . . . Light your lamps while there is
(12.55 a.m.) yet time."" Bugles blow ^°
ending in victory after things had seemed almost desperate,
and that the last two verses are ajjjDlied to the gradual advent
of a happier era, to which the War is a necessary prelude, and
are used in the same sense as " the Dawn." Cf. for instance,
" Far back through creeks and inlets making comes silent
flooding in the main. U^d to the hilt war war without
truce or pity there is no reconciliation possible between
those whose lives are parted by a stream of slaughter
vendetta that is the thought
"
in H. V. 141, of Dec. 2, 1908 ; and
" progress by trial cross currents yet the tide rolls in
... he strikes with all his strength Fight on, he said
"
in H. V. 162, of March 22, 1909. See also H. V. 31, quoted
and discussed under " Lay not up for yourselves treasures " on
p. 519 below.
The poem is as follows ;
"Say not the struggle naught availeth.
The labour and the wounds are vain, *
The enemy faints not, nor faileth.
And as things have been they remain.
If hopes were dupes, fears may be liars ;
It may be, in yon smoke conceal'd,
Your comrades chase e'en now the fliers.
And, but for you, possess the field.
For while the tired waves, vainly breaking.
Seem here no painful inch to gain.
Far back, through creeks and inlets making,
Comes silent, flooding in, the main.
And not by Eastern A^indows only.
When daylight comes, comes in the light
;
In front the sun climbs slow, how slowly !
But westward, look, the land is bright !
"
An allusion to the Parable of the Ten Virgins {Matt. xxv.
1-13). The phrase " while there is yet time " recurs in K. 79
in the form :
" Hearken while there is yet time."
^° Bugles, I think, have two different connotations in King
scripts : there are the bugles which herald Avar, and the bugles
that herald the Dawn. For the former cf.
" the trumpets blow the bugles sound and all the world
is in the war "
in K. 161 ;
470 ./. G. Piddingfon. [part
Nov. 30, 1913 (64) Mercy and truth have kissed each
other Twenty milhon— Fear not I
tho' all about you should crumble
— Follow follow the light always
and for ever. Marvellous are thy
works and greatly to be praised.
The ship, the ship ploughing its way
through deep waters . . . Far off
through creeks and inlets making
That's the point in all sorts of
ways and in all kinds of places the
light is beginning. ^3 You will hear
of it now. Fret not thyself ^*
—be
calm . . .
" When the bugles blow
"
in K. 204, and
" Twice have the bugles called the third time is enough "
in I^. 207.
For the Bugles that herald Dawn, see K. 65 below. Here
the preceding reference to the Parable of the Ten Virgins
suggests that the Bugles are heralds of War, because this
Parable relates to the Second Coming which was to be pre-
ceded by " Wars, and rumours of wars." This suggestion will,
however, not seem plausible to the reader until later, when he
realises how frequent and marked are the references to the
Eschatological Discourses in pre-War King scripts.
Psalm Ixxxv. 10: "Mercy and truth are met together;
righteousness and peace have kissed each other." See foot-
note (4) above, and pp. 528-534 below.
3^ See footnote (20) above.
See footnote (28) above.
Psalm xxxvii. 1, 2, 7-11: "Fret not thyself because of
evil-doers. . . . For they shall soon be cut down like the
grass . . . fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in
his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to
pass. Cease from anger, and forsake wrath ; fret not thyself
in any wise to do evil. For evil-doers shall be cut off : but
those that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the earth.
For yet a little while, and the Avicked shall not be ;
yea, thou
shalt diligently consider his 2:)lace, and it shall not be. But
the meek shall inherit the earth, and shall delight themselves
in the abundance of peace."
Lxxxvii.] IVar References in Pre-War King Scripts. 471
Dec. 1, 1913 (65) Let not your heart be troubled^''
Out of great tribulation cometh
great peace, for when the waters
have been troubled an angel stilleth
. them 2' . . . Do you know that not
one of us cares for hegemony —we
are all brothers in love—there is no
hate among us . . .
Open wide your casements to the
dawn ^8 Blow bugles blow Usher
in the happy morn. . . .
Dec. 2, 1913 (66) Fly before the storm— Pray that
your flight may not be in winter.'"'
Mens Sana in corporis san l*'^'^]
TiU the day dawn and the shadows
flee away
Dec. 12, 1913 (71) . . . the harbinger of dawn. Let us
pause a little while. The flowers of
John xiv. 1, 27: "Let not your heart be troubled: ye
believe in God, believe also in me. . . . Peace I leave with
you, my peace I give unto you : not as the world giveth, give
I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be
afraid."
Cf. K. 71, 84, 118, 128, 175 ; and see 130. See also next
footnote, and pp. 534-535 below.
3«Cf. K. 202; and see Matt. xxiv. 6, 20, 21: "And ye
shall hear of wars, and rumours of wars : see that ye be not
troubled : for all these things must come to pass, but the end
is not yet. . . . But pray ye that your flight be not in the
winter, neither on the sabbath-day : For there shall be great
tribulation, such as was not from the beginning of the world
to this time."
37 See pp. 534-538 below under " The Pool of Bethesda."
3* See pp. 523-527 below under " Had Zimri peace ?
"
3^ See footnote (30) above.
*»See footnote (36) above. Cf. K. 80, 85, 100, 104, 121,
161, and " the blight of winter " in 72.
With " fly before the storm " cf. " Let not your heart be
vexed with the storm " in K. 130.
*^ This Latin tag reappears in K. 177.
42 Canticles II. 17 ; IV. 6. One of the " Dawn " aUusions.
472 J. G. Piddingfon. [PART
the forest — Lest we forget . . .
(Some talk about devising new ex-
periments) . . .
Moth and rust—treasure, lay it not
up.*^ The last impediment of noble
minds *® Let not your heart be
troubled —the mouse in its little
hole can see the dawn if it looks
Dec. 13, 1913 (72) . . . The far flung foam The
blight of winter *^ Be patient—try and
be passive—and clear your brain—-you
will be surprised soon Shall I tell you
something—When the woods arc green.
" Jane Elliot, A Lament for Flodden :
" The Flowers of the
Forest are a' wede away." Of the great slaughter at the
Battle of Flodden the writer on the subject in the Enc. Brit.
says :
" Among the ten thousand Scottish dead were all the
leading men in the kmgdom of Scotland, and there was no
family of importance that had not lost a member in this
great disaster."
"See footnote (24) above.
Matt. vi. 19-21 :
" Lay not uji for yourselves treasures
upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where
thieves break through and steal : But lay up for yourselves
treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt,
and where thieves do not break through nor steal : For where
your treasure is, there wUl your heart be also."
Cf. K. 79, 121, 176. For the meaning of this four-times
repeated text see pp. 514-522 below.
Milton, Lycidas :
" Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise
(That last infirmity of Noble mind)
To scorn delights, and hve laborious days."
See footnote (35) above.
See footnote (24) above.
" The bhght of whiter " seems to be a kind of punning
variation of " the flight in whiter." Except for the intervening
advice to the automatist " the blight of winter " is followed
here by " When the woods are green " ; and in K. 100 " Li
summer when the woods are green " is followed after an
interval by " The flight m winter." It seems just conceivable
that there is an attempt made in these two scripts to intimate
that " the flight in winter," i.e. the War, wih begin, not in
winter, but in summer.
Lxxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 473
Be not dismayed the music of the
spheres —the trend of thought . . .
Dec. 17, 1913 (79) . . . Fire and sword Hearken
while there is yet time —sweetness
and Ught ^*
— Rust and moth do
corrupt . . .
Dec. 18, 1913 (80) . . . The flight in winter ^S—have you
understood it is not far have you
not seen things about snow and
blood— Look back a little "...
Isaiah xh. 10-12 :
" Fear thou not ; for I am with thee :
be not dismayed : for I am thy God : I wiU strengthen thee.
. . . Behold, aU they that were incensed against thee shaU be
ashamed and confomaded : they shall be as nothing ; and they
that strive with thee shall perish. Thou shalt seek them, and
shall not find them, even them that contended with thee :
they that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a
thing of nought."
See
''
be not dismayed " in H. V. 172 quoted under " Ven-
geance is mine " on p. 560 below.
See pp. 550-554 below.
See under " Lay not up for yourselves treasures " p. 519
below.
See footnote (29) above.
^* Swift, Battle of the Books, of the Bees (the Ancients) who
have furnished mankind " with the two noblest of things,
which are sweetness and light." It is from this passage in
Swift that Matthew Arnold derived his definition of culture as
" the passion for sweetness and fight."
^5 See footnote (45) above.
See footnotes (36) and (40) above.
" The only previous phrase simfiar to this occurs in K. 62,
of Nov. 26, 1913, where, however, the context is not filuminat-
ing. Possibly both here and in K. 62 aUusion is intended to
CampbeU's Hohenlinden :
" On Linden when the sun was low
AU bloodless lay the untrodden snow
But redder yet those fires shall glow
On Linden's hfils of crimsoned snow,
And bloodier yet shall be the flow
Of Iser rolling rapidly
474 J. G. PidcUngton. [part
Dec. 25, 1913 (84) The lapse of time—let not your heart
be troubled —all is well . . .
Dec. 26, 1913 (85) Nerve yourself 6o_flight in winter ^6—
Render unto Caesar the things that
are Caesar's . . .
Jan. 1, 1914 (90) . . . Turn the weeping into joy —
pierce all darkness with a shaft of
light disperse matter with spirit.
The Titan mighty—magnificent—the
travail—all the long striving of man,
his pain and his agony here and
there those who could see and hear—
always there have been such—but
soon there will be many more and in
time the world will be a happier place.
The terrible cry of the wounded
The hot breath of the war The
blending of many tears . . .
Few, few shall part where many meet
!
The snow shall be their winding-sheet."
Campbell's poem on Avhat he calls this battle between
" furious Frank and fiery Hun " has certainly been employed
in Mrs. Salter's script (see p. 586 below) and in Mrs. Willett's
as a War reference.
58 See footnotes (35), (36), and (40) above.
59 Cf. K. 107, 125, 136, 176, 182, 203 ; and see pp. 506-507
below.
Cf. "nerve yourself for the coming trial" in K. 172; and
see footnote (180) below.
^1 Matt. xxu. 21. Possibly the meaning is " You will have
to do your duty to the State." If so, cf. "There are many
things going to happen in Avhich you will have a part. . . .
There is nothing to dread—you are well guarded but you
will have a difficult time, a time of trial " in K. 194. During
the War Mrs. ICing did render valuable service to the State
—
service which met with recognition from the State.
Jer. xxxi. 13: "For I will turn their mourning into joy."
Cf. " all tears shall be wiped away—there shall be no more
sighing " {Rev. xxi. 4, and Isaiah xxxv. 10) in K. 130.
I think man is here regarded as a sort of Prometheus.
Though Titan is not a common description of Prometheus in
classical writers, Shelley in his Prometheus Unbound frequently
applies the epithet to him.
TiXXXVii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 475
Jan. 2, 1914 (92) . . . (Some talk about the best time
for getting impressions)
The crossed swords
I want you to listen for a moment
to someone else . . .
Jan. 9, 1914 (99) The righteous souls—far far was the
strife when in the afternoon the
smoke went straight up into the sky
look he said we shall have peace
now.^^
The nimbus, now think what that
means The flying squad —the
transport waggons—his job—no lark-
ing there—he was anxious
(Mrs. King says mentally : "I must
stop, I'm afraid.")
Just one word—put this— The
drums were not there really."^
«*Cf. K. 176; and see footnote (23) above. I take "the
crossed swords " to mean the sign with which cartographers
mark the site of a battle.
" When in the afternoon," etc., I take to be a dramatised
reference to Peace ; and " the transport waggons—his job,"
etc., to be a dramatised reference to War. With the latter
cf. the passage in K. 104 beginnmg " he was not afraid
"
down to " the woman in the Manse," and the passage in,
K. Ill beginnmg " he was not quite young " and ending " Is
Drummond tlie name 1
" Whether the dramatisation is the
communicator's or solely the automatist's, it is, of course,
impossible to pronounce. But I strongly suspect that it is
the automatist's ; and this view is, I think, supported by the
sentence following the mention of the name Drummond in
K. Ill :
" Leave this now or your brain wUl invent." The
use of the future tense, " will mvent," instead of " has in-
vented," was, I should imagine, diplomatic.
Possibly " nimbus " stands for the storm-cloud of War,
and is contrasted with the still weather in which the smoke
goes up straight and presages Peace.
Cf. " the flying squadi'ons " m K. 104. A flying squadron
usually means a squadron of ships equipped for rapid cruismg ;
but I suspect that both by " the flying squad " and " the
flying squadrons " are meant troops in flight.
®8 See footnote (25) above.
476 J. G. Piddington. [part
Ja7i. 10, 1914 (100) In summer when the woods are
green — The birds of the air
—
when the flowers come up . . .
Lifted on the wings of destiny The
old heroic courage of unquestioning
trust Faint intimations of a coming
—[sic] (can't get the word) The
flight in winter . . .
Jan. 20, 1914 (104) ... The flight in winter.^i many
frozen rivers—many broken bridges
all the meadows flooded—not a sign
of hfe the grey and heavy sky —
he was not afraid only tired only
weary and the way was long. Then
came the doom he was caught in the
drift—pinioned under the horse—and
the cold caught him—but before he
died he understood—everything—
&
he forgave everything—tell her that
{Mrs. King :
" Who am I to tell ? ")
TeU the woman in the Manse '^^
—(Don't
bother about it more will come)
Now I want you to prepare yourself
for a new development
—
{Mrs. King :
" How ? ")
Go on practising and trying, keep
well and calm—the fl3dng squadrons ^*
the battle cries— Tewkesbury '^^
—
Armageddon . . .
69 See footnote (49) above. ggg footnote (19) above.
''^
See footnotes (36) and (40) above.
''^The words from "many frozen rivers" down to "heavy
sky " may be the automatist's own embroiderj^ ; but even so
they suggest that subUminally she understood " the flight in
winter " to mean real warfare.
See footnote (65) above. See footnote (67) above.
''^
In view of the context the reference is clearly to the
Battle of Tewkesbury, fought on May 4, 1471, at which
Edward IV. defeated Margaret of Anjou. It was one of the
decisive battles of the Wars of the Roses.
Rev. xvi. 14, 16 : " they are the spirits of devils . . ,
Lxxxvii.] War Beferences in Pre-War King Scrvpts. 477
Jan. 23, 1914 (107) ... Harvard—not Yale—Harvard—
the true explorer—over the broken
ridges Fear not—be not afraid "
—
all is well . . .
Jan. 27, 1914 (111) . . . Now listen listen to the drums
roUing roLHng the gates of Egypt
—^futile it seemed—the striped tents,
the long ribbed sand he was not
quite young, he had lived and
learned much yet he did not want
to die, specially not to die hke that.
For a long time he could not forget
—but now he is happy and at peace
only he asks for some message to
Clara so that she may wait for him.
Also tell her to watch over Edward
—
he would have hked to help him
[Mrs. King :
" You know I never
can find these people on so little.")
Is Drummond the name ?
[Mrs. King :
" I do not know.")
Leave this now or your brain will
invent ^° . . .
Feb. 12, 1914 (114) . . . esto nobis—pardon and peace
—the strife ended—the warfare ac-
compUshed^i—the uplifted hands—If
in the storm the shelter falls—stop.
Feb. 13, 1914 (115) Furens, lente, Lay down the arms.
Fugitives, the bandoliers. In the
cool of the morning— Clear your
brain The caves of Fingal—the
which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole
world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of
God Almighty. . . . And he gathered them together mto a
place called m the Hebrew tongue Armageddon."
" See footnote (20) above. See footnote (59) above.
See footnote (25) above. See footnote (65) above.
81 Isaiah xl. 2 :
" Speak ye comfortably unto Jerusalem, and
cry unto her, that her warfare is accomphshed, that her
iniquity is jjardoned."
J. G. Piddington. -
[part
splurge The cross, Many are called
but few few are chosen ^2
the
travelling showman. A boy, a boy,
a boy— The tenderness of the
inanimate little understood — When
the sound of the grinding is low
Fear stalks the land ... j ^^^t
to say this to you—be attentive now
The diapered pattern on the walls
—
we are trying all sorts of tests with
you, don't be afraid of them—you
have a hard time before you but
all will be lit for you
—
Onward Christian soldiers Marching
as to war
With the Cross of Jesus Carried
on before.8^
82Jfo«. XX. 16 (Parable of the Labourers in the Vineyard)
and xxu. 14 (Parable of the Marriage-feast).
s^This may be the first emergence of "the tenderness of
mute msensate thmgs in K. 146.
Ecclesiastes xii. 4.
«5 Cf. M. V. 239, of April 2, 1908 :
" Fiat terror et omnes tremuere no begin again He
said let there be light-& there was light-and no more
dread of the terror that walketh in the night time No
somethmg about Pestilence that stalks in the noonday
what I want is some word like Vast a or Waste
d e V a s t a t e—and the desert shall blossom as the rose "
'
H. V. 116, of Sept. 23, 1908:
"Hannibal and another devastator vae victis the
pestilence that walks by day,"
and M. V. 424, of July 11, 1911 :
"Swifter than the arrow that flieth by day more
sudden than the pestilence that stalketh in the noontide-
Wait and sec & surely it will be inteUigible. Magnus erat
clamor. From all the land a cry went forth."
" Stalks " in M. V. 239 and " stalketh " in M V 424 are
misquotations for " walketh."
pp^586^^?87^^' """"^ ^' ^^^^ '"^""^
See footnote (180) below. Hymns Ancient and Modern, 391.
Lxxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 479
(Mrs. King is here told to go to
sleep, and not to overwork.)
Follow the gleam The violet
crown This is all scrappy but
never mind. Stop now
Feb. 20, 1914 (118) Pax nostra, pax eternam [sic], let not
your heart be troubled oh ye of
little faith. The light is growing
more than you any of you know or
realise the livery of sin—servitude
not service Be near me when my
light is low 0 wondrous love—all
other love excelling,^^ never destroy
faith—guard it, foster it. Lusitania,^*
foam and fire—mest [sic] the funnel
—in broken arcs
—
Mental attitude, that matters, In
silence there is rest—and in rest
there is peace—and in peace there is
vision—the three stages Come from
the East The sons of the morning—
the stars sang together Be joyful
Tennyson, Merlin and the Gleam. See j)p. 539, 542 below.
The words occur three times previously and once subsequently
in pre-War King scripts, but in contexts too much broken to
make them worth quoting.
89 Cf. K. 157 ; and see pp. 539-549 below.
9° See footnote (35) above.
9^ These words occur three times in Matthew's Gospel : first
in vi. 30, next in viii. 26, and lastly in xvi. 8. See also
Luke xii. 28. I believe the reference here and in other scripts
is always to Matt. viii. 26 :
" And behold there arose a great
tempest in the sea . . . And his disciples came to him, and
awoke him, saying, Lord, save us : we perish. And he saith
unto them, Why are ye fearful, 0 ye of little faith ? Then
he arose, and rebuked the winds .and the sea : and there was
a great calm."
Cf. K. 182 ; and see pp. 512-513 below.
®^ Tennyson, In Memoriam L. The thnd verse begins :
"Be near me when my faith is dry."
93 Hymn. Cf. K. 167 ; and see pp. 499-500 below.
^^Job xxxviii. 7. See pp. 550-553 below.
480 J. G. Piddington. [PAET
all ye lands Hail, Ave, we greet
the heroes.
Feh. 21, 1914 (119) . . . Write this now carefully. The
fugitive gleam and the myrtle
bough and all the waves of the
ocean— In no land is peace ^®
—the
frenzy— We want to use you very
much—we will use you—you must
persevere—things will be easier for
you in time—just go on faithfully
—
Leviathan in the waters —the
[sic\
Feb. 23, 1914 (121) Let's try and put the coping stone
on one thing anyway—write without
understanding or question
—
In the morning there shall be
light —fugitive gleam —mystery
—
and he was not forgetful he had no
fever—he was not involved, feeble
but firm. You are not yet ready
—
Psalm c. 1 (Prayer Book version). Cf. 128, 164 ; and see
p. 553 below.
Cf. K. 119. "The fugitive gleam" is almost certainly the
same as " FoUow the Gleam," for which see footnote (88)
above. See also pp. 539, 542 below.
88 Cf. " all the world is in the Avar " in K. 161.
88 See footnote (1) above.
100 Presumably an intentional inversion of Zechariah xiv. 7 :
" at evening time it shall be Kght."
The context is as follows :
" Behold, the day of the Lord
cometh . . . For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem
for battle ; and the city shall be taken . . . and half of the
city shall go forth into captivity, and the residue of the people
shall not be cut off from the city. Then shall the Lord go
forth, and fight agamst the nations, as when he fought in the
day of battle . . . And it shall come to pass in that day,
that the light shall not be clear, nor dark : But it shall be
one day, which shall be Imown to the Lord, not day, nor
night : but it shall come to pass that at evening time it shall
be light. And it shall be in that day, that Uving waters shall
go out from Jerusalem . . . And the Lord shall be king over
all the earth."
Lxxxvii.] War ffeferences in Pre-War King Scripts. 481
flight in winter ^""^
—buckle on the
armour of hght — Now ... be
"1 See footnotes (36) and (40).
See footnote (21) above. Note that Eom. xiii. 21 forms
part of the Ej)istle for the First Sunday in Advent, and that
the Collect for this Sunday, which is repeated on the other
Advent Sundays, borrows from Eom. xiii. 12 the words " cast
away the works of darloiess, and put upon us the armour of
light." " Buclde on the armour of hght " may also refer to
tlie paraUel passage in Ephesians vi., and the words in K. 185,
" in the armoury of faith there are many weapons . . . The
mighty power of evh must be matched with power," as also
" buckle on the shield " in K. 206, certainly point to Ephesians
rather than Romans. The Ephesians passage is as follows :
" Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the
power of his might. Put on the whole armour of God, that
ye may be able to stand against tlie wiles of the devil. For
we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against princi-
palities, against powers, against the rulers of the dai-kness of
this world, against si^iritual wickedness m high places. Where-
fore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be
able to withstand in the evil day, and, having done aU, to
stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about Avith
truth, and having on the breast-plate of righteousness ; And
your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace
[cf. K. 37, 182] ; Above all, takmg the shield of faith, where-
with ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the
wicked. And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of
the Spirit, which is the word of God." [Eph. vi. 10-17.)
To this passage Mrs. Whlett's scripts twice refer : once
before the War, once in the middle of it. Thus :
" There are more dechnes and more falls in the fates of
men than in any Empires . . . Olympic . . . contests not
of the physical but of the spiritual For we wrestle not
against flesh and blood the contest wages elsewhere
"
(W. 195, of June 14, 1910).
" The forts of folly fall There is a blow that is more
sure than anything in the realm of physical force it is
the blow dealt by thought upon the citadel of ignorance
the blow dealt by truth upon the citadel of error
We fight not with men but with prmcipalities & powers
I want that idea though you have not selected that part
of it which fits m best with my train of thought
I want to emphasise that great victories are won in the
realm of ideas & that it is in the realm of ideas that
blows must be dealt upon that which produces evil i.e.
spiritual unsoundness
482 J. Q. Piddington. [part
sure Lay not up for yourselves
treasures.
March 1, 1914 (125) ... On the high shelf of destiny—
0 mutinous mind of man—reaching
after the stars so far beyond his
reach, the leap of the spirit into the
unknown.^"* You must not fear—
•
never fear or flinch —^.11 will be
well jn the mind of God . . .
March 3, 1914 (126) Joy BeUs—the pleached alleys—non
non il ne vient pas—mon ami est a
la guerre fut-ce Dieu qui
Fenvoit [sicl — Les murs qu'on
grave sont ecroules That's more
or less right . . .
March 5, 1914 (128) Question :
" Of old sat freedom on
the heights." Has this quotation
any special significance ?
It is always the spirit of man that is first corrupted &
then comes the externaUsation of that corruption
and in the same way you cannot get the New World
Utopia until the sphit of man comes again as a little
child ...
always and everjrwhere it is spiiit that is ultimately the
thing that counts . . .
You are thinking this rather a lugubrious Sc[ript] but
it isn't so at all quite the contrary—it claims victory for
the thmgs of the spkit'~over the blind forces of might
And it is in that victory that Man is seen as made in the
Image of God " (W. 382, of Dec. 26, 1916).
See footnote (45) above.
"4 For " leap of the spirit " see K. 34.
"5 See footnote (20) above. See footnote (59) above.
Of. " Rendez le moi c'est mon ami " m K. 176. The
words " mon ami " do not occur elsewhere in King scripts.
"8 Mrs. King tells me that "les murs qu'on grave" suggested
to her at the time the Writiiag on the Wall of Belshazzar's
palace ;
and " sont ecroules " tiie ruin of Belshazzar. Cf. per
contra " tried in the furnace—and not found wanting " in
K. 182.
These two questions had been put by Mrs. Sidgwick to
Mrs. King by way of an experiment.
Lxxxvn.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 483
A7iswer.
Gold, gold, gold, the refiner's art.^^'-
The French army —the darkness of
the grave.
" Of old sat Freedom on the heights " had been fhst quoted
in H. V. 308, of Feb. 23, 1913, and had then appeared again
in the first script written by Mrs. VerraU after the date of
H. V. 308 : namely, in M. V. 518, of March 3, 1913, Mrs.
Verrall not having seen H. V. 308. It had then reappeared
agam ui H. V. 344, of Feb. 25, 1914.
" Old, unhappy, far-off things, and Battles long ago," a
quotation from Wordsworth's Solitary Eea2Kr, had appeared
once in Mrs. Verrall's script in 1905, and afterwards three
times in Mrs. Salter's : first in 1908, and then in close succes-
sion on Jan. 6 and Feb. 9, 1914.
Both quotations were chosen for this experiment simply
because, being unable to imagine what significance they could
have, we thought some hght might be obtamed by asking
questions about them.
1" Cf. " the cleansing fire " in K. 176, and " In the furnace
tried in the furnace—and not found wanting " in K. 182.
"iCf. "France the French" in K. 42.
Perhaps cf . the foUowing :
" a ring of fire—thrice purified—the darkness of the grave
—Selah [probably only an instruction to the automatist to
repeat the last phrase]—the darlaiess of the grave—the
narrow grave—dig the grave deeper—these all belong
together
"
in H. V. 460, of March 8, 1916 ; and so
' The grave—dig the grave deej)er—the paths of glory
[lead but to the grave]—the darkness of the grave
"
in H. V. 460, of Jan. 21, 1916;
" fire the purifier fire and death palUda mors aequo
pede pauperum tabernas pulsat regumque turres
"
m H. V. 66, of Jan. 27, 1908 ; and so
" PaUida mors . . . The pulsation of Death that comes to
aU is only one aspect of the universal— No you can't
get it aequo pede and for the equality it is worth
paymg a price " in M. V. 637 of Aug. 22, 1914.
For the importance of this last extract in relation to the
War see pp. 544, 547 below ; and see the extract from W. 225
on pp. 522-523 below for the employment of " the paths of
glory lead but to the grave " as a reference to War.
From these extracts it looks as if the War may be regarded
484 J. G. Picldington. •
[part
Question : Do you wish to say any-
thing about " Battles long ago " ?
Answer.
Yes it IS important, The banded
(or, band of) brothers. Mycenae.
The banners float on high, No,
The sUver boat—write this—that no
good will come of it for the motive
is not quite pure—at least so it
seems. The Httle stories— Knock
and knock—that is the way—de-
mand, question, command. Lend
your mind. Not a star in the sky.
Clap your hands and be joyfiil all
ye people. In the far hills lies
the lake—pale knight loitering —
that's it—all kinds of battles—clear
your brain now for another side.
The nails in his coffin fastened down
by sin—the Bird of Destiny. Say
not the struggle naught availeth.^i®
in the scripts as a purifying experience, a fiery trial that must
first be gone through before Freedom m its highest develop-
ment can be revealed to man. I merely throw out the
suggestion tentatively, and in no way insist on it.
See footnote (22) above.
A mixture of Psalm xlvii. 1 and c. 1. See footnote (96) above.
11^ Keats, La Belle Dame Sans Merci. Cf.
" alone and palely loitering—armed cap a pie a sable shield"
in H. V, 181, of Sept. 3, 1909 ;
" alone and palely loitering . . . the sword and the scab-
bard to draw the sword is easier than to sheathe it
armed cap a pie the temple doors stand open [i.e. the
doors of the Temple of Janus, open in time of war]
"
in H. V. 250, of Jan. 31, 1912 ; and
" mailed fist Knight at arms ["0 what can aU thee,
Iviaight-at-arms, Alone and palely loitering ?"]... Toll
for the brave [" The brave that are no more !
"]
"
in H. V. 299, of Jan. 18, 1913. Why Keats' poem should be
thus connected both in King and H. V. scripts with battles
and war is not clear.
ii« See footnote (28) above.
Lxxxvn.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 485
Every struggle helps—defeat is not
death—there is only delay— Let
not your heart be troubled —and
here stop now.
March 8, 1914 (130) Let not your heart be vexed with
the storm —there is peace in the
midmost place (Interrupted) . . .
Courage—be of a good heart —the
stress is for a little while The sound
in your ears of drums and fifes and
hosts marching to battle —
The Nazarene, the healer of wounds
—all tears shall be wiped away
—
there shall be no more sighing
^"^
March 17, 1914 (136) The printed order of going—and an
the North no hint of command—the
futile efiort of the fleet i"__the stone,
"^ See footnote (35) above. gge footnote (40) above.
Cf. "Keep up a good heart" in K. 58, "Courage he
said and pointed to the dawn " in K. 174, " Courage, courage,
in the long game aU will be well " in K. 176, " The last lap-
Courage " in K. 184, and " take courage for your staff " in
K. 207.
120 See footnote (25) above. ^^i gge footnote (62) above.
122 Until I looked up the facts for the purpose of writmg
this footnote, I had always supposed that the words from " The
printed order " down to " the fleet " were an allusion to what
was called the " Ulster Plot " and the ordermg of the Thnd
Battle Squadron to Lamlash. I had, however, wrongly assumed
that the naval movements were public property by the time
this script was written, and that " the futile effort of the
fleet" was Mrs. King's comment on the matter. The words
in question may be an allusion to these incidents ;
but if they
are, they cannot be attributed to Mrs. King's normally acquired
knowledge of them, for, so far as I can discover, the earliest
date on which rumours of the naval movements got about was
March 21, or 22, 1914. I give below the relevant facts and
dates, my authority being either the Annual Register for 1914
or the Times :
MarcJi 11, 1914.
The Cabinet decides to station a battle-squadron at
Lamlash (Arran). Se© Mr. Winston Churchill's statement
486 J. G. Piddington. [part
the great stone do not be in the
least afraid all will be well —
in the House of Commons on March 25, 1914, and Annual
Register, pp. 60 and 86.
March 14, 1914.
Mr. Winston CharchiU in a speech at Bradford said that
if the Government's conciliatory offer to Ulster were
rejected, " it can only be because they [i.e. the people of
Ulster] prefer shooting to voting." See Times of March 16,
1914.
March 17, 1914 {St. Patrick's Day).
At 9.15 p.m. Mrs. King records script as above.
March 21, 1914.
The Prime Minister, Mi. Asquith, learns for the first
time of the orders to the Third Battle Squadron, and
causes them to be countermanded. See statement in
House of Commons on April 22, 1914 {Aymtial Register,
p. 82), and Mr. Asquith's speech in the House on April 29,
1914 (ib. p. 89).
March 22, 1914.
Mr. Asquith authorises the Times to state that the naval
movements merely consisted in sending troops to Carrick-
fergus by two small cruisers. See Annual Register, p. 57.
March 23, 1914.
The Times publishes the statement authorised by Mr.
Asquith.
The Times of this date contains the first mention I have
traced of the movements of the fleet ; but from the
authorised statement it would appear that rumours had
been circulating earlier, and may have appeared in the
Sunday newspapers of March 22, and possibly in the
evening papers of March 21, 1914.
In reply to my enquiries Mrs. King informed me on August
18, 1922, that she had never connected the opening phrases
of K. 136 with the " Ulster plot," or with Ireland at all.
After the war began she thought " the futile effort of the
fleet " might possibly be an obscure reference to some attempt
of the German fleet. And she states that she does not for a
moment believe that she heard any rumours of the fleet being
ordered to Lamlash before they were mentioned in the news-
papers.
If the coincidence between K. 136 and the orders given to
the Third Battle Squadron is not fortuitous, the only certain
conclusion that I feel justified in drawing is that Mrs. King
did not extract her information, either in a normal or a
supernormal manner, from the Prime Minister.
See footnote (20) above. gee footnote (59) above.
Lxxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 487
you need not fear 0 love 0 life
0 time. Coming events cast their
shadows before never will the
land remain [.sic] . . .
March 28, 1914 (144) . . . Say this, that the petals were
torn—^far far away the storm clouds
hung, luUed to sleep by dropping
streams— Tremendous issues—and
in the light of common day no hope,
but unseen forces are moving to the
light—the banners are torn but the
legend survives—the spirit of man is
taught and no [sic] joyousness
is in the vision—be patient—long
long have we suffered—lived in dark-
ness but westward see, the land is
bright . . .
March 30 1914 (146) . . . Now that you may believe me—
say this— No light upon the moun-
tain tops— The riven gloom and in
all her folded valleys there is peace
The tenderness of mute insensate
1 thought this was probably a misquotation of Shelley's
" Oh, world ! oh, life ! oh, time !
" ; but Mrs. Kmg thinks it
is a reminiscence of a hne in a Sonnet of Keats', which she
quoted to me as
" Life, time, and fame to nothingness do sink "
;
but the actual quotation is
" then on the shore
Of the wide world I stand alone, and think
Till Love and Fame to nothingness do smk."
In any case the source, if any, of the phrase is probably
immaterial, as the sole purpose of it seems to be to bring in
the idea of Time, and thence to pass to " Coming events,"
etc.
T. Campbell, Lochiel's Warning :
" 'Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore.
And coming events cast their shadows before."
See footnote (28) above.
488 J. G. Piddington. [part
things. Hanging wreaths of mist
and— Let not the manner of the
tale oiiencl—we say not what we
wish but what we can. ...
April 5 1914 (150) Write this. Non est supern
[sic] long in the churchyard—motto
the bard teuton Malpertuis, Ful-
gens— Foi'th stalled ox . . .
April 13, 1914 (154) Fenchurch — Sweet mistress of
the hour—the chiming clock . . .
April 14, 1914 (155) Crossing the Bar.^^" Some are cross-
ing now — Fenchurch St.^^^ The
underground. In the boat are many
—^the Teuton, the bandaged
eyes . . .
April 17, 1914 (157) . . . The violet crown —the seven
hills . . .
April 25, 1914 (161) ... My God, my God, why hast
thou forsaken mc^^*^ This cry de
profundis is the cry of the world
now, it is the dark moment before
new light—the purple shadows of the
dawn come first then the rose red
rays—and then the Sun of Day ^^"^
128 Wordsworth, " Three years she grew " :
" the sUence and the calm
Of mute insensate thmgs."
See footnote (83) above. 129 Qf k. 155.
Chaucer, Truth (misquoted) :
" Forth, beste, out of thy stal !
"
See pp. 500-501 below ; and cf. K. 174.
13- Tennyson, Crossing the Bar.
133 Probably a misquotation of a line in Charles Wesley's
Hymn, " Let Saints on earth " :
" Part of the host have ci'oss'd the flood,
And part are crossing now."
^
134 Cf. "the blindness—the holden eyes" m K. 182.
135 See footnote (89) above. "^^^
Psalm xxii. 1.
13^ See pp. 523-527 below for reasons for referring these
phrases to a passage in Ruskin's Modern Painters.
Lxxxvn.] War Beferences in Pre-War King Scripts. 489
lift up your eyes 0 ye daughters of
men heed not the clamour of the
world—wield aloft the mighty arms
of your wondering spirit (Inter-
rupted)
The Pathfinder. Die Pfadfin-
derin cut out a new way for the
spirit
The flight "9_take heed to that,
take heed Many waters cannot
quench love nor the floods drown
iti4o_ The dark (lost the next
words through inattention) Now
—the trumpets blow the bugles
sound and aU the world is in
the war.^*^
138 Title of a story by Paul Heyse about a woman of uncou-
ventional character. ]VIi\s. King had translated the story into
Enghsh. See pp. 502-503 below.
"9 See footnotes (36) and (40).
1*" Canticles vui. 7. I think this quotation has no relevance,
and is introduced merely in order to lead on to a poem
quoted almost immediately afterwards, about a flood which
dro\nied many people :
" That flow strewed Avrecks about the grass,
That ebbe swept out the flocks to sea ;
A fatal ebbe and flow, alas !
To manye more than myne and mee."
See footnote (142). See footnote (30) above.
" And all the world is in. the war." These words are a
very remarkable variation of a line in a poem by Miss Jean
Ingelow, called The High Tide on the Coast of Lincolnshire.
Mrs. King at the time recognized the source of the phrase,
and was greatly surprised by the substitution of " war " for
"sea."
"So farre, so fast the eygre [i.e. large tidal wave] drave,
The heart had hardly time to beat.
Before a shaUow seething wave
Sobbed m the grasses at our feet :
The feet had hardly time to flee
Before it brake agamst the Imee,
And all the world was in the sea^
Note the alteration of the tense : ''is in the war," not
490
May 2, 1914 (164)
May 8, 1914 (165)
May 14, 1914 (167)
May 29, 1914 (172)
J. G. Piddington. [part
. . . I am close to you and have
something to tell you. I shall slip
it in somehow. You must not try
too hard be easy and uncritical
The belted earl, oh be joyful all ye
lands —the troubled times, Eveleen
—the hot potatoes— Mercy and
truth 1" . . .
. . .Say not the struggle naught
availeth.^*^ Faint beginnings of the
dawn . . .
. . . Open your heart to the un-
known—fear is the arch enemy.
Lusitania ^''^
. . .
Yes it is w^orth while, never think
it is not—all the pain and the
\sic\ Remember that all stars are
pointed—nerve yourself for the com-
ing trial —the terrible striving of
the rich [The word " rich," though
clearly written, was queried by Mrs.
King.] The light is dim
—
yoM are
suffering . . .
" was." " The dark " may represent an attempt at the next
verse :
'
' Upon the roofe we sate that night,
The noise of bells went sweeping by ;
And awsome bells they were to mee.
That in the dark rang '
Enderby.'
"
Cf. M. V. 697, of June 18, 1915 :
" Bells ringing in the darloiess of the night—ringing till
the grey dawn rises . . . the beUs of Enderby."
i"See footnotes (96) and (114) above.
1** See footnote (4) above.
"5 See footnote (28) above. See footnote (2) above.
14'' See footnote (162) below. ^^s
x 118 above.
149 Qf "Nerve vourself " in K. 85 above; and see footnote
(180) below.
Lxxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 491
Jtine 4, 1914 (174) . . . Fenchurch Street —the deluge
—the noisome pestilence that walketh
by night — Courage he said and
pointed to the dawn . . . The
frightened feathers in the wind blown
here and there— Shelter 0 God
shelter . . . this is a bad business
—
if we can do anything we will but
it's a bad business.
June 6, 1914 (175) ... Let not thy heart be troubled "3
—ev6n if thou walk through the
valley of the shadow of death I am
with thee . . .
Ju7ie 8, 1914 (176) The healing wings of grace — The
merciless downpour Never say die
—
for there is hope always—the cleans-
ing fire —no other way—futile
efforts the fear is spent—lay not
up for yourselves treasure upon
earth —the last flicker Courage,
courage/^^ in the long game all will
be well.^^^ The crossed swords
Publish it not in Gath — Say
Cf. K. 154 and 155 above ; and see pp. 500-501 below.
Psalm xci. 3, 5, 6 :
" Surely he shall dehver thee from
the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence . . .
Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the
arrow that flieth by day. Nor for the pestilence that walketh
in darlmess, nor for the destruction that Avasteth at noon-day."
See footnote (85) above, and p. 501 below.
Tennyson, The Lotos-Eaters. " Dawn " is substituted for
"land." See footnote (119) above.
See footnote (35) above. Psalm xxiii. 4.
155 Possibly cf. the extract from Rusldn's Unto This Last,
quoted on p. 575 below under " Vengeance is Mine."
See footnote (110) above. See footnote (45) above.
See footnote (119) above. See footnote (59) above.
See footnote (64) above.
2 Sam. i. 20 : part of David's Lament over Saul and
Jonathan. For another quotation from David's Lament see
K. 202: "How are the mighty fallen." See also pp. 514, 555,
563, 587 below.
492 J. G. Piddington. [part
this—that the worst is the best
do you understand the worst is
better than you think Rendez le
moi c'est mon ami ^"•'^
. . .
June 10, 1914 (177) . . . tell them not to despair there
is much to be suffered and gone
through, but out of strife will come
peace —and future \sic] and in the
end beauty
—
Devereux—no no— Devolution
—
oh you are a stupid—the price must
be paid—it must be—there wiU be
humiliation and bitter bitter pain
—
but in the end a guerdon for the
fighter —• Fiend voices that rave.^^^
162 Browning, Prospice :
" Fear death ? —to feel the fog in my throat.
The mist in my face,
When the snows begin, and the blasts denote
I am nearing the place,
The power of the night, the press of the storm.
The post of the foe
Where he stands, the Arch Fear in a visible form,
Yet the strong man must go :
Though a battle's to fight ere the guerdon be gained.
The reward of it all.
I was ever a fighter, so—one fight more,
The best and the last !
I Avould hate that death bandaged my eyes, and forbore.
And bade me creep past.
For sudden the worst turns the best to the brave,
The black mmute's at end,
And the elements' rage, the fiend-voices that rave,
Shall dwindle, shall blend.
Shall change, shall become first a peace out of pain,
Possibly cf. " fear is the arch enemy " in K. 167 ; and
certainly cf. " out of pain will come peace—fear Death " in
K. 193.
i«3
See footnote (107) above.
Lxxxvii.] War Beferences in Pre-War King Scripts. 493
Lay down the burden Write
that this is no abiding city (A
question of a purely personal char-
acter was here asked by Mrs. King,
and a brief answer given.) Mens sana
in corporis [sic] sano Now stop
June 21, 1914 (182) ... 0 ye of little faith i««
the
blindness—the holden eyes ^^'^
—you are
too eminent (word queried by auto-
matist) clean your heart and mind
{Mrs. King :
" Clean them of emo-
tion and thought, you mean ?)
Yes that's it— In the furnace
tried in the furnace ^'^^
—and not
found wanting — The Roman
toga "°—the transformation i'^"
— The
living fountain of grace—drink from
163' Cf. " Cast off your burdens " in K. 37 above.
Hebrews xiii. 14 :
" For here have we no continuing city,
but we seek one to come."
Cf. M. V. 674 :
" I have tried before to represent the . . . Creation of
a new heaven & a new earth. TUl I have built Jeru-
salem In England's green & pleasant land. There is
still much buhding to be done ... for the City that wiU
be an abidmg City the true Eternal City " ;
and see under " The Violet Crown," pp. 539-548 below.
The misquotation, common to K. 177 and M. V. 674, of
" abidmg " for " continuing " may be due to a recollection of
1 Chron. xxix. 15 :
" For we are strangers before thee, and
sojourners, as were all our fathers : our days on the earth are
as a shadow, and there is none abiding." With this cf. Hebreivs
xi. 9, 10 : "By faith he [Abraham] sojourned in the land of
promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles . . .
For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder
and maker is God."
i«5Cf. K. 66 above. i«« See footnote (91) above.
See footnote (134) above. ^^See footnote (110) above.
The expression is borrowed from Dan. v. 27 : " Tekel :
Thou are weighed in the balances, and art found wantmg."
See footnote (108) above.
See pp. 556-559 below for the meanmg of the Roman Toga
;
and cf. "the seven bills " in K. 157. See footnote (17) above.
494 J. 0. Piddington. [part
it— How lovely are the messengers
that bring us the tidings of peace.
Long long strife and struggle and
then peace—be not afraid, all is
well "3 _ _ _
. . . The last lap— Courage —the
challenge and the shield—the broken
wa,ys—the finger of destiny—keep
not the tidings to yourself be
merciful to the stricken hind at
the end the baying will cease
and on all the hills there will be
peace . . . the Miltonic metaphor
Blest pair of Sirens . . .
. . . The multitudinous seas incarna-
dine."'' Leo the Lion—the Scorpion
... be brave there is trial coming
"1 Ro7n. X. 15 :
" as it is written [i.e. in Isaiah lii. 7], How
beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace,
and bring glad tidings of good things." The variation from
the original given in the script is due to an imperfect recol-
lection of the Enghsh version of the words of a Chorus in
Mendelssohn's St. Paul :
" How lovely are the messengers that
preach us the gospel of peace." See footnote (10) above.
See footnote (20) above. ggg footnote (59) above.
"*See footnote (119) above.
"^Cf. per contra " Publish it not in Gath " in K. 176.
Mrs. Sidgwick suggests that there is a reminiscence here of a
Chorus in the Bacchae of Euriijides (U. 862 If.). This would suit
"in the end the baying will cease" very well. In any case "be
merciful to the stricken hind " probably belongs to the topic of
Mercy. See the Section called " Mercy and Truth," pp. 528-533
below.
177 " xhe baymg " seems to mean the baying of " the dogs
of war."
"•^ Milton, At a Solemn Musick. See under " the Music of
the Spheres," pp. 550-554 below.
™ Shakespeare, Macbeth, Act II., Sc. 2, 1. 62.
180 (2;f "you have a hard time before you" in K. 115;
"nerve yourself for the coming trial" in K. 172; "you will
have a difficult time, a time of trial " in K. 194 ; " Great
June 22, 1914 (184)
June 24, 1914 (185)
Lxxxvii.] War References in Pre-War King Scripts. 495
—the little ear of corn — Lend
yourself to me now for I want
to say this, that in the armoury of
faith there are many weapons. No
man is to be despised for his weapon.
The mighty power of evil must be
matched with power.
July 10, 1914 (193) . . . Linked up sounds of woe, never-
theless out of pain will come peace
—
fear Death—no . . .
July 12, 1914 (194j . . . There are many things going to
happen in which you will have a
part. The links are being forged.
There is nothing to dread—you are
well guarded but you have a diffi-
cult time, a time of trial. Pre-
pare yourself by quiet thought and
by much aspiration and striving to
attain. (The script, after passing
explicitly to another subject, ends as
follows :)
Here is [name of Mrs. King's
husband]. Darling I am very near
Tell her not to faint—tell her your
hand is about her (Interrupted).
trial and tribulation " in K. 202. and " the trial time, the
testing ground " in K. 207, though they have a general and
not a particular apphcation, should also be compared.
In view of the preceding references to Leo and the
Scorpion, it is not unlikely that " the httle ear of corn " may
mean another of the Signs of the Zodiac, namely Virgo, whose
emblem is a spike of corn. She is identified with Astraea, to
whom there are several references in the scripts. See pp. 551,
563, 564, 595 beloAv.
See footnote (102) above.
It should be noted that this is the last extract before
June 28, 1914 : the date of the murder of the Archduke
Francis Ferdmand at Serajevo. This murder was the osten-
sible casus belli.
See footnote (162) above.
i^*See footnote (180) above; and also footnote (61).
496 J. G. Piddington. [part
{Dictated to Mrs. Verrall.)
The dispute is not ended though in
the end there will be peace —
festina lente . . .
. . . Peace had Zimri peace who
slew his master — Be afraid of
nothing your part is prepared
for you and for others only be
calm and listen and attend. Great
trial and tribulation but in
the end peace and light— How are
the mighty fallen and the proud
brought low the Lords of
Heaven are not asleep Work while
it is yet day for the night cometh
It must be admitted that, coming, as it does, at this
point, this phrase is rather unfortunate. Nevertheless it cannot
be held to outweigh the repeated warnmgs contained in the
preceding scripts. Moreover, the language is in any case
oracularly ambiguous, for though the more natural meaning is
that the dispute will end peacefully, it can be read to mean
that the dispute is not ended, and that only in the end will
there be peace. It should be borne in mind that it was not
till July 24, 1914, that news reached this country of the
I^eremptory and arrogant ultimatum addressed to Serbia by
Austria. Had it been Imown, two days earlier, it might have
been held to liave mfluenced this script. If King 198 was
influenced at all by the automatist's normal knowledge of any
current events, I should be rather inclined to look for that
influence in the Buckingham Palace Conference on the Irish
crisis. The second meeting of the Conference was held on the
mornmg of July 22, 1914 (the date of K. 198), and when it
was over the outlook was regarded as " most critical " (see
the Times of July 23, 1914).
186 2 Kings ix. 31 :
" And as Jehu entered in at the gate
she [Jezebel] said, Had Zimri peace, who slew his master ?
"
For reasons for referring this quotation to a passage in
Rusldn's Moderri Painters see pp. 523-527 below. See footnote
(38) above.
IS'''
See footnote (20) above. ^^^See footnote (180) above.
See footnote (36) above.
i^**
See footnote (161) above. The quotation from David's
Lament over Saul and Jonathan has been joined with language
reminiscent of Hannah's Song and of the Magnificat.
July 22, 1914 (198)
(10.25 p.m.)
July 27, 1914 (202)
{Afternoon)
Lxxxvn.] War References in Pre-War King Scrvpts. 497
when no man can work — Ven-
geance is mine saith the Lord I will
repay Be steady and incite not
to violence . . .
July 27, 1914 (203) All is well . . . do not doubt, it
{Midnight) is a weakness
{Mrs. King :
" I do not. I only
long and yearn sometimes.^®*)
be assured by me that the time is
not long. Now I want you to carry
a difficult thing. The war of the
worlds— Destiny
July 29, 1914 (204) . . . Only a moment When the
bugles blow Mercy—mercy and
truth i***^
—rent asunder . . .
? July 31, 1914 (206) Put on the armour of light—buckle
on the shield ^^'^
the lurid dawn
—
but be nob afraid
John ix. 4 : "I must work the works of him that sent
me, while it is day : the night cometh, when no man can work."
Romans xii. 17-21: "Recompense to no man evil for evil
. . . If it be possible, as much as heth in you, Uve peaceably
mth aU men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves : but
rather give place unto wrath : for it is written, Vengeance is
mine ; I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore if thme enemy
hunger, feed him ;
if he thhst, give him drink : for in so
doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not
overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good."
St. Paul is quotmg from Deut. xxxii. 35 :
" To me belongeth
vengeance, and recompense ; their foot shall slide in due time :
for the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things that
shall come upon them make haste."
See below under " Vengeance is mine," pp. 554-570 ;
and
see also the extract from Ruskin's Modern Painters quoted on
p. 524 below.
See footnote (59) above.
i^*It looks as if the communicator meant to assure Mrs.
King that she had no cause to doubt but that all would be
well as regards the coming War and its outcome, and as if
the automatist misunderstood and took the words " do not
doubt " to be a reflexion on her scepticism.
See footnote (30) above. See footnote (4) above.
See footnote (102) above. gee footnote (20) above.
498 ./. G. Pidclington. [part
Aug. 2, 1914 (207) The potter's vessel i^^*—ten thousand
thousand—Jet not famine or war
affright thee ^oo
—stand by—the time
is not yet 201 .. . Twice have the
bugles caUed the third time is
enough— The trial time, the testing
ground -"^ The burning iron—take
courage for your staff ^os— j ^jgj^
that I could give you comfort I
can only promise you strength . . .
"3 Psalm ii. 1-5, 9 :
" Why do the heathen so furiously rage
together : and why do the people imagine a vain thing ?
The kings of the earth stand up, and the rulers take counsel
together : against the Lord, and against his Anointed. Let us
break their bonds asunder : and cast away their cords from us.
He that dweJleth in heaven shall laugh them to scorn : the
Lord shall have them in derision. Then shall he speak unto
them in his wrath : and vex them in his sore displeasure. . . .
Thou shalt bruise them with a rod of non : and break them
in pieces hke a potter's vessel."
See under " Vengeance is mine," pp. 554-570 below.
See footnote (20) above.
The allusion here I take to be to Matt. xxiv. 6-8: "And
ye shall hear of wars, and rumours of wars : see that ye be
not troubled : for all these things must come to pass, but the
end is not yet. For nation shall rise agamst nation, and
kingdom against kmgdom : and there shall be famines, and
pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers j)laces. AH these are
the beginning of sorrows."
Cf. W. 225, of Nov. 13, 1910 ; at the end of a passage full
of references to War :
" there were Black Clouds too and much pestilence Cap-
tain my Captain [Walt Whitman's poem on the death of
Lincoln] But the end was not yet."
There are several other references to " the end is not yet
"
in the scrij^ts. I take their meaning to be that, though the
War bulks largely in the scripts, it is not " the conclusion of
the whole matter," but the sign of the end of an old world
and of the beginniiig of a new.
See footnote (180) above. 203 gg^ footnote (119) above.
Lxxxvii.] Note on " Lusitania,'" " Fenclmrch Street,'" etc. 499
NOTE ON "LUSITANIA," " FENCHURCH STREET,"
AND "PATHFINDER."
LUSITANIA.
The name " Lusitania " occurs twice in Mrs. King's pre-
War scripts : in K. 118 of February 20, 1914, and K. 167
of May 14, 1914. The immediate context of " Lusitania
"
in K. 118, viz. "foam and fire—mest [s^c] the funnel,"
shows conchisively that it is the vessel of that name that
is meant. It is the only name of a ship, except " The
Pathfinder " (for which see later), that occurs in the
pre-War King scripts. It will be generally admitted,
I think, that the appearance of the name twice in these
scripts, which certainly seem to contain predictions of the
coming War, is very odd. But is it more than " very
odd " ? Is there, in other words, more than a chance-coin-
cidence between the two appearances of " Lusitania " in
Mrs. King's scripts of Feb. 20, and May 14, 1914, and
the sinking of the Lusitania on May 7, 1915 ? I find
myself unable to come to any conclusion. The reasons
against regarding the coincidence as accidental seem to me
to be these :
(a)
" Lusitania " occurs twice in a series of scripts which
for various reasons appear to contain a good many
predictions of the Great War, in which the sinking
of the Lusitania was an event of outstanding
importance :
(6)
" Lusitania " occurs first in a script containing
several phrases ("let not your heart be troubled,"
" the hght is growing," " the stars sang together,"
" Be joyful all ye lands ") which form part of a
group of references predictive of a Utopia to follow
the War ;
(c) the second occurrence of " Lusitania " is immediately
preceded by a phrase—" fear is the arch enemy "—
which, for reasons given in footnote (162) on
500 J. G. Piddington. [PAKT
pre-War King scripts, may be reminiscent of the
first verse of Browning's Prospice and especially of
" The post of the foe
Where he stands, the Arch Fear in visible form,"
and this literary allusion, if really intended, would
not be inapj^ropriate to the sinking of the Lusitania.
Of these three reasons the first appears to me to be by
far the strongest.
The reasons for regarding the coincidences as accidental
I should summarise as follows :
(a) the a priori improbability of foreseeing such an
event as the sinking of the Lusitania a year before-
hand (For further observations on this point see
pp. 601-603 below.) ; and
(6) there is nothing in the context of either " Lusitania
"
reference to suggest destruction by an enemy.
"Foam and fire" in King 114, in so far as it
suggests anything definite, suggests rather a fire
breaking out on board, and the ship sinking and
awash in the waves as a result of the fire. If "fear
is the arch enemy " is reminiscent of Prospice, it
could be perfectly well applied to the passengers
and crew aboard the burning ship having to meet
death.
Fenchtjech Street.
The references to Fenchurch Street occur in the following
scripts and contexts :
King 154. Fenchurch . . .
King 155. ... Fenchui'ch St. The underground. In the
boat are many—the Teuton, the bandaged eyes.
King 174. ... Fenchurch Street—the deluge—the noisome
pestilence that walketh by night . . . Shelter O God
shelter . . .
These are the only references in all Mrs. King's scripts to
Fenchurch St., and there is no other reference to " The
underground."
Lxxxvii.] Note on " Lnsitania," " Fenchurch Street," etc. 501
In the summer of 1917 the worst German Air-Raids on
London took place. I have not been able to obtain
detailed information about them, but certainly much
damage was done on one occasion—and, I fancy, on two
occasions—to Leadenhall St. and Fenchurch St. and the
small streets lying between them. The stations and
passages in the Underground Railways were, of course,
much used as shelters during Air-Raids. I am nearly
certain that the Air Raid (or Raids) that caused damage
to Fenchurch St. and its neighbourhood took place in the
daytime, and not at night. Accordingly " the noisome
pestilence that walketh by 7iight " could not be strictly
applied to a daylight Raid ; but if
''
the noisome pesti-
lence " etc. is regarded as an allusion to the context of
these words in Psalm xci. 6, this context would not be
inappropriate :
Surely he shall deliver thee . . . from the noisome pesti-
lence . . . Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by
night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day, nor for the
pestilence that walketh in the darkness, nor for the
destruction that wasteth at noon-day.
I I am not for one moment claiming that these three
" Fenchurch St." scripts do relate to Air-Raids on the
City. I confine myself to pointing out coincidences
between phrases in these scripts and facts (or what I
believe to be facts) connected with German Air-Raids on
the City, and I leave each reader to form his own opinion.
Should any reader think the coincidences too close to be
attributed to chance, he may be inclined to see in the
words " In the boat are many—the Teuton " an attempt
to combine a prediction of the sinking of the Lusitania
with a prediction of Air-Raids on the City. " The
Teuton " occurs in King 150 and 155 only.
The Pathfindek.
On September 5, 1914, the light cruiser H.M.S. Path-
finder was struck by a torpedo and foundered. This was
the second disaster in the War that had befallen the British
502 J. G. Piddington.
Fleet up to that date : the first being the loss of H.M.S.
Amphion on August 6, 1914.^
In King 161 occurs the following :
The Pathfinder Die Pfadfinderin cut out a new way for
the spirit.
These words are sandwiched between what I regard as
a certain reference to the passage from Ruskin's Modern
Painters quoted on pp. 523-527 below, and one of the
clearest predictions of the War. If, then, the coincidence
between King 161 and the disaster to H.M.S. Pathfinder
is not accidental, the context on both sides is markedly
suggestive : much more suggestive than are the contexts
of " Lusitania " and " Fenchurch St."
A strong—but not, I think, a conclusive—argument
against the coincidence being due to foreknowledge can be
based on the fact that " The Pathfinder " is followed by
" Die Pfadfinderin " : the latter being the original title of
a story by Paul Heyse, which Mrs. King had once trans-
lated into English. When I asked her about the story,
she coidd not remember it in detail, but she did remember
that it was about a woman of unconventional type ; and
she thought that the words that follow " Die Pfad-
finderin," viz. " cut out a new way for the spirit," might
represent her vague recollection of the story. In any
case " cut out a new way for the spirit " seems to carry
on the idea expressed in the phrases that immediately
precede " The Pathfinder. Die Pfadfinderin," viz. :
lift up your eyes 0 ye daughters of men heed not the
clamour of the world—wield aloft the mighty arms of your
wondering spirit.
The occurrence of " The Pathfinder " may consequently
be accounted for on normal hues ; and such an explana-
tion will doubtless satisfy many, particularly those who
1 See Journal, Vol. XVI., pp. 306 ff. and Proc. Vol. XXXIII., pp. 352-
353, for two dreams of a sinking ship, experienced by the same percipient,
the first occurring 13 lionrs after the sinking of H.M.S. Amphion, and the
second near the time that H.M.S. Pathfinder sank. Since the accoimt
of these dreams was published in Proceedimjs we have been informed
that the Pathfinder was torpedoed, and not sunk by a mine.
Lxxxvii.] Nvte on " Lusitania," " Fenchurch Street,'" etc. 503
have made no study of automatism. But those famiUar
with the mental processes displayed in scripts will recog-
nise that the contents of an automatist's normal conscious-
ness often serve to give expression to an idea that is
trying to emerge from a subconscious stratum. If, then,
some subconscious stratum of Mrs. King's mind was
endeavouring to exj)ress the idea of H.M.S. Pathfinder, it
is by no means improbable that the nearest approach to
successful expression would be a reference to a story
normally known to the automatist and bearing the same
title as the ship. Moreover, if some vague connexion
existed in the subconscious stratum between H.M.S.
Pathfinder and the Germans, a reference to a German
story bearing the same name as the ship might all the
more readily be evoked.
It may be that, about the dates that " Lusitania,"
" Fenchurch St.," and " The Pathfinder " appeared in
Mrs. King's scripts, there were prominent allusions to the
ship, or the cruiser, or the street in the newspapers or
elsewhere. I know of none ; but should any of my
readers come across any, I hope he will inform me.
There must, of course, have been announcements of the
sailings of the Lusitania ; and Fenchurch St. must have
been mentioned in the newspapers, and H.M.S. Pathfinder
may have been. To references of this kind, however,
I am not asking to have my attention drawn, for they
would hardly be likely to help in the solution of the
problem. The kind of reference I mean is such as could
reasonably be supposed to have excited Mrs. King's
interest. Mrs. King herself is not aware of havmg had
her notice drawn at or about the dates in question either
to the Lusitania, or to H.M.S. Pathfinder, or to Fenchurch
Street.
2i
504 J. G. Pidclington. [part
COMPARISON OF PRE-WAR KING SCRIPTS WITH
THE SCRIPTS OF OTHER AUTOMATISTS.
In the footnotes appended to the pre-War King scripts,
although a certain number of cross-references have been
given to the scripts of the other automatists, attention
has been mainly directed to recurrences of the same
phrase or topic in the King scripts themselves. I now
proceed to make a more detailed and systematic com-
parison between the pre-War King scripts and the scripts
of the other automatists.
The simplest way of doing this is to take a topic found
in the King scripts, to ascertain whether it appears in the
other scripts, and, if so, in what kind of context ; and
then to see whether this context suits its context in the
King script.
It must be clearly understood that in making these
comparisons I am not pretending to deal with all the
occurrences in other scripts of a topic found in the
pre-War scripts. If I were to do that, this paper would
attain inordinate dimensions, and the reader would be
bewildered by the mass of evidence. I am pretending
only to give illustrations of how a topic found in the
King scripts is treated in the other scripts.
Before, however, starting on this task, I must remind
the reader of what I said in the Introduction to this
paper : namely, that the pre-War King scripts are more
explicit than the great generahty of the other automatists'
scripts. He must therefore not be surprised when he
finds that the corresponding references in the other scripts
require more comment than do the simpler references in
King scripts. The communicators do not pretend as a
general rule to be able to make definite statements.
What they claim to do is
" to get a sequence of associated ideas grouped in
the automatist's mind in such a way as to suggest
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 505
a certain train of thought or events normally un-
known " (H. V. 325).
Note the words " to suggest," because they very exactly
describe what really happens. With this suggestive method
! one cannot expect the matter-of-factness of a legal docu-
ment or of an auctioneer's catalogue. The effect produced
is not unhke that produced by poetry. A poem may
create an impression which could not fairly be described
as obscure ; and it may create—and a good poem will
usually create—a more vivid impression than a piece of
prose dealing with the same subject. But though the
impression may be vivid and not obscure, it will probably
I not be definite. Were one to try to reduce, let us say,
I
Shelley's Cloud to matter-of-fact prose, the result would be
I deplorable or laughable. I do not suggest that the
scripts soar to such heights as The Cloud reaches : their
i
imagery may not scorn the ground quite so airily as that ;
but nevertheless it is sufficiently poetical to make the
task of reducing its meaning to plain prose a hard matter ;
and so the reader must not complain if I do not dot all
the i's and cross all the fs, and if I leave it to him to
do some of the interpretation for himself. To understand
any but the simplest poems it is usually necessary to read
them with care several times at least. So also with
these symbolic scripts. If a reader will take the trouble
t
to go through them carefully several times, I believe with
each successive reading he will acquire a deeper insight
into their meaning ; but if he has only patience enough
for one reading, then, I fear, they will leave on him but
a faint and confused impression.
The topics are not all of ec|ual interest or of equal
evidential value. Those that come first are less interest-
j
ing than the later ones. But the earlier sections should
not be skipped, because I have tried to arrange the topics
in a sort of logical sequence, so that, as a rule, one leads
'
on to the next, and so on. The evidence, in fact, is to
a great extent cumulative.
506 /. G. Pidclington. [part
" ALL LS WELL."
See King 84, 107, 125, 136, 176, 182, 203.
The phrase " all is tvell " appears in King scripts
without any literary association. In H. V. 129, of
Nov. 14, 1908, " all is well " occurs as part of a quotation
from Tennyson, In Memoriam, CXXVII :
Ah sorrow aiXivov aiXwov enre toS' ev I'lKarw [Aesch.,
Ag. 121, 139, 159: "Alas and welladay, said he, but let
the good prevail
!
"] and aU is Avell tho' faith and form
seem sundered in the night of fear the union of good
and evil that is the thought the evil is null is void
there is the same thought here too . . . The mountains
gleam with a great light not the light of dawn Kings
shall tremble and great potentates be amazed.
The passage in In Memoriam from which this script
quotes, and of which it is also reminiscent, is as follows :
And hear at times a sentinel
Who moves about from place to place,
And whispers to the worlds of space,
In the deep night, that all is well.
And all is well, tho' faith and form
Be sunder'd in the night of fear ;
Well roars the storm to those that hear
A deeper voice across the storm,
Proclaiming social truth shall spread.
And justice, ev'n tho' thrice again
The red fool-fury of the Seine
Should pile her barricades with dead.
But ill for him that wears a crown,
And him, the lazar, in his rags :
They tremble, the sustaining crags ;
The spires of ice are toj)pled down,
Lxxxvn.] Comparisoyi of Scripts. 507
And molten up, and roar in flood ;
The fortress crashes from on high,
The brute earth hghtens to the sky,
And the great ^on sinks in blood.
And compass'd by the fires of Hell ;
While thou, dear spirit, happy star,
O'erlooks't the tumult from afar,
And smilest, knowing all is well.
To this passage there are other direct references in the
scripts ; and besides these, the following extract from
H. V. 173, of July 29, 1909, has obviously been influenced
by the In Mem. passage :
Victory with justice and Truth ^ . . . and what shall be
hereafter ^ . . . The darkness grows the shadows lengthen
and night comes with silent stride—the night of terror
'
is also the night of rest and healing for those whose face
is turned towards the dawn. The dawn—the dawn * . . .
"AiXivov, u'lXiroi' eiTre, etc., which immediately precedes
\ the quotation from In Mem. cxxvii. in H. V. 129,
appears in M. V. 47, of Sept. 17, 1905, in the following
context :
at'Aii'o;' at'Aii'oi' etVe to 8' ev vikcltm ... It is Unhappy
in the telhng but good will come in the end.
And old unhappy far off things . . .
For " old unhappy far off things "—which is a quotation
from Wordsworth's The Solitary Reaper—see the next
section.
^ Cf. "Proclaiming social truth shall spread,
And justice."
Rev. iv. 1 : "Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which
must be hereafter."
The slight misquotation of the original is probably traceable to a
recollection of the English version of a solo in Spohr's Last Judgment,
where, in order to fit the music, the original is altered to " and I will
shew thee what shall he hereafter."
^ Cf. " tho' faith and form
Be sunder'd in the night of fear."
* Tennyson, In Mem. xcv. Cf. King 31.
508 J. 0. Piddington. [part
"WE BAND OF BROTHERS."
See King 43, 128.
This quotation from the famous " Crispin-Crispian
"
speech before Agincourt in Shakespeare's Henry V. is
found also in Holland, M.V., and Willett scripts. It
seems to be used in more than one sense, and is some-
times applied to the commimicators themselves ; but on
March 5, 1914 (see King 128), when the question " Do
you wish to say anything about [old, unhappy, far ofi
things, and] '
battles long ago ' ?
" was put by Mrs.
Sidgwick to Mrs. King, the response opened with the
words :
" The banded {or, band of) brothers."
We may assume, I think, that on this occasion at any
rate " the band of brothers " stands for the Battle of
Agincourt, and was suggested by the question about
" battles long ago." I should attach no importance to
that, if it stood alone ; but this phrase in Mrs. King's
answer to Mrs. Sidgwick's question becomes, perhaps,
more significant when compared with the four following
extracts from Mrs. Verrall's scripts, the first of which was
written the day after the anniversary of St. Crispin's Day,
1901, and the fourth on St. Crispin's Day, 1915 :
31. V. 3072 {Oct. 26, 1901).
. . . Grasp it now Graspian—and another like the
first . . . s. Crispin's day recently that is a date
—
not for you . . .
M. V. 3114 {March 27, 1902).
. . . Everlasting snows and birds of prey gathered
together . . . Crispin Crispian was right you wiU see
some day ...
LXXX\TI.] Comparison of Scripts. 509
" Everlasting snows " occurs only once again in Mrs.
Verrall's scripts, as follows :
31. V. 3043 {June 30, 1901).
... in the everlasting snows—you cannot fail to
note. Peace and a sword . . .
M. V. 710 (Oct. 25, 1915).
Ye band of brothers . . .
This last script was written on an impulse just after
jNIrs. VerraU had read the " Crispin-Crispian " speech in
the Times of Oct. 25, 1915.
It is not necessary, I suppose, to produce evidence of
the frequent references to the Crispin-Crispian " speech
during the War, especially during the months of October
1914 and 1915.
"Birds of prey gathered together" in M. V. 3114 is
almost certainly reminiscent of Matthew xxiv. 28 :
For wheresoever the carcase is, there ^vilI the eagles be
gathered together ;
or of Luke xvii. 37 :
Two women shall be grinding together ; the one shall be
taken, and the other left.
Two men shall be in the field ; the one shall be taken,
and the other left.
And they answered and said xmto him, ^Vhere, Lord ?
And he said unto them, ^\^leresoeve^ the body is, thither
^viIl the eagles be gathered together.
The " Crispin-Crispian " reference in M. V. 3114, then,
is combined with a phrase that is almost certainly reminis-
cent of a passage in one of the Eschatological Discourses
which is very intimately connected (see Luke xvii. 31 and
Matthew xxiv. 17, 18, 20) with
" Pray ye that your flight be not in the winter,"
which occurs no less than seven times in the pre-War
King scripts.
510 J. 0. Piddington. [part
BEHEMOTH AND LEVIATHAN.
See King script of Oct. 18, 1913.
" Tell Gerald that Behemoth was what I meant " in King
script of Oct. 18, 1913, was written shortly after Mr.
Balfour had, unknown of course to Mrs. King, been
puzzhng over the following reference to Leviathan in
Willett 281, of Feb. 16, 1912 :
. . . thou great Leviathan not Jonah Thou great
Leviathan men's hearts failing them for fear but the
waves sank like a little child to sleejD the angry billow
ceased to leap At thy will . . .
I believe that Mrs. Willett's " Leviathan " which is
" not Jonah," and Mrs. King's " Behemoth " are allusions
to two companion pictures of Blake's. They are num-
bered respectively I. and II. in Blake's Descriptive Cata-
logue, from which I quote the titles given them by Blake :
NUMBER I.
The Spiritual Form of Nelson guiding Leviathan, hi tvhose
writhings are infolded the Nations of the Earth.
NFMBEB II.—ITS COMPANION.
The Spiritual Form of Pitt guiding Behemoth ; he is that
Angel who, pleased to pe^rform the Almighty's orders, rides on
the ivhirlwind, directing the storms of ivar : He is ordering
the Reaper to reap the Vine of the Earth, and the Ploughman
to j)lough up the Cities and Towers.
I presume that Blake's titles were suggested to him by
Hobbes' Leviathan and its companion work Behemoth
rather than by the Book of Job. Part of Blake's de-
1 There are many allusions in the scripts to Blake's pictures and poems.
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 511
scription of Behemoth is based on Addison's poem on the
Battle of Blenheim
'Twas then great Marlborough's mighty soul was proved,
That, in the shock of charging hosts unmoved,
Amidst confusion, horror, and despair,
Examined all the dreadful scenes of war :
In peaceful thought the field of death surveyed.
To fainting squadi'ons sent the timely aid,
Inspired repulsed battalions to engage,
And taught the doubtful battle where to rage.
So when an Angel by divine command,
With rising tempests shakes a guilty land
(Such as of late o'er pale Britannia passed).
Calm and serene he drives the furious blast ;
And, pleased the Almighty's orders to perform.
Rides in the whirlwuid and directs the storm.
^
In describing Pitt as " ordering the Reaper to reap the
Vine of the Earth," Blake is borrowing his imagery from
Rev. xiv. 18-19 :
And another angel came out from the altar, . . . and
cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle,
saying. Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters
of the vine of the earth ; for her grapes are fully ripe.
And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and
gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great
wine-press of the wrath of God.
" Thou great Leviathan " in W. 281—which is, so to
speak, corrected by King script to " Behemoth "—is
immediately followed by a quotation from Ltike xxi. 26 :
And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon,
and in the skies ; and upon earth distress of nations, with
perplexity ; the sea and the waves roaring ; Men's hearts
failing them for fear, and for looldng after those things
which are coming on the earth.
If " thou great Leviathan " means, as I suggest, Blake's
1 Mrs. Salter's scripts contain -what I believe to be several attempts
—^none quite successful—to quote this last line.
512 J. G. Piddington. [part
Behemoth, which Blake associated with the passage in
Bev. xiv., it is not difficult to see why it is immediately
followed by
" Men's hearts failing them for fear "
;
because both Bibhcal passages are concerned with the
signs of the coming of God's Judgement upon the earth.
In W. 281 " Men's hearts failing them for fear
"—^the
immediate context of which is " the sea and the waves
roaring "—is immediately followed by a quotation from
the well-known Hymn on the subject of Christ's calming
of the storm on the Sea of Galilee. If we consider that
" the sea and the waves roaring " immediately precedes in
the original " Men's hearts failing them for fear," and that
the latter is immediately followed in the script by a
reference to the Calming of the Storm, we can easily
understand how Leviathan, the sea-monster guided by
Nelson, might be given in mistake for Behemoth, the
land-monster guided by Pitt.
The context in St. Luke's Gospel of " Men's hearts
failing them for fear " is, of course, parallel to the passage
in Matthew xxiv. about the signs of Christ's second coming
and the end of the world, in which occur the words, so
often quoted in pre-War Bang scripts :
" But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter."
With the topic of the Calming of the Storm we shall meet
several times again later on (see pp. 514, 554, 592, 594, 595).
What its precise meaning may be, is not clear. I do not
think that it means the end of the War : that is to say,
the cessation of military operations in November 1918.
The Calming of the Storm appears to be connected in the
scripts with Christ's walking on the water, and also with
the passage in the first book of the Aeneid where Neptune
calms the storm for Aeneas. If I had to make a guess
as to the meaning of these associations, I should con-
jecture that they pointed to a sudden and grave political
crisis to end as suddenly as it arose. Some such meaning
as this would explain why the two incidents in the
Gospels are connected with the passage in Aeneid I.,
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 513
where Neptune calming the sudden storm is compared to
a statesman appeasing a turbulent outburst of the ignobile
valgus (cf. Hobbes' use of " Leviathan," and Blake's use
of "Behemoth").
Should some readers feel a certain unfittingness in the
apphcation of Christ's calming of the storm and of his
walking on the sea to political alfairs, I would point out
that it has at least the authority of Tennyson, whose
Lady of the Lake
" dweUs
Down in a deep ;
calm, whatsoever storms
May shake the world, and when the surface rolls
Hath power to walk the waters hke our Lord."
"THE CROSSED SWORDS."
See King 92, 178.
The phrase " the Crossed Sivords," which presumably
means the sign used to mark on maps the scene of a
battle, occurs elsewhere than in King script only once,
namely in H. V. 448, of October 31, 1915, and in this
form :
Crossed swords—the sword in the scabbard.
The only other reference in H. V. scripts to a sword
and scabbard is in H. V. 250, of January 31, 1912 :
the sword and the scabbard to draw the sword is
easier than to sheathe it armed cap a pie ^ the temple
doors stand open.
That " the temple doors " here mean the doors of the
^ See footnote (115) on pre-War ELing scripts.
514 j. G. Piddington. [part
Temple of Janus, which stood open in time of war, is
shown by H. V. 463, of Feb. 24, 1916 :
how are the mighty fallen [cf. King 176, 202] . . .
hinges—open wide—the temple ot Janus.
With this compare an extract from W. 231, of January
18, 1911, never seen by Mrs. Salter :
Pax Vobiscum . . . Victories other tlian those of War
. . . go on . . . the angels' song in terra [pax] Bub why
brealc off Janus the gates thereof closed or open they
stand and stood very long ago many years their hinges
did not revolve the Olive Branch that too the Plough-
shares the quiet hours the quiet the great calm . . .
All her paths are Peace.
" The great calm " here is a reference to the Calming of
the Storm on the Sea of Galilee. Cf. W. 230, of January 5,
1911 :
say too there was a great Calm the waves sank to sleep
and compare also the passage already quoted above
(p. 510) from W. 281, of February 16, 1912 :
[the sea and the waves roaring] men's hearts failing
them for fear but the waves sank like a little child to
sleep the angry billow ceased to leap At thy will.
"LAY NOT UP FOR YOURSELVES TREASURES
UPON EARTH."
See King 71, 79, 121, 176.
This quotation from the Sermon on the Mount occurs
four times in pre-War King scripts, and would be unin-
telligible if I^ng scripts stood alone. Fortunately the
LXXXVII.l Comparison of Scripts. 515
scripts of other automatists come to our assistance, and
show that the quotation is used as a reference to passages
in Ruskin's Sesame and Lilies.
It will be remembered that Sesame and Lilies forms the
subject of a marked Cross-correspondence set forth by
Mrs. Verrall in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 270-294.
Moreover, extensive use has been made in the scripts of
Ruskin's writings, especially of Sesame and Lilies, Fors
Clavigera, Unto This Last, and Modern Painters.'^ It would
lead me too far afield, indeed it would require a small
monograph, if I were to attempt to produce all the
evidence for my assertion that " Lay not up for your-
selves treasures " is used as a reference to passages in
Sesame and Lilies. But after first quoting the passages
in question, I will append a few extracts from scripts as
specimens of the kind of evidence on which my assertion
is based.
Extracts from Ruskin's " Sesame and Lilies."
§ 43. But I have no words for the wonder with which I hear
Kinghood still spoken of, even among thoughtful men, as if
governed nations were a personal property, and might be
bought and sold, or otherwise acquired, as sheep, of whose
flesh their king was to feed, and whose fleece he was to gather ;
as if Achilles' indignant epithet of base kings, " people-eating,"
were the constant and proper title of all monarchs ; and the
enlargement of a king's dominion meant the same thing as the
increase of a private man's estate ! Kings who thinlt so,
however powerful, can no more be the true kings of the nation
than gadflies are the kings of a horse ;
they suck it, and may
drive it wild, but do not guide it. They, and then courts,
and their armies are, if one could see clearly, only a large
species of marsh mosquito, with bayonet proboscis and melo-
^ I think that one reason why Ruskin's writings have been so often
drawn upon is that his books are so full of quotations, especially
Biblical ones, that references to passages in his works can be more
easily made by quoting his quotations than would be possible in the
case of most other prose -writers. His qviotation -habit makes him almost
as quotable as a poet.
Only one of the automatists is specially familiar with Ruskin's writings.
516 J. G. Piddington. [part
dious, band-mastered trumpeting, in the summer air . . . The
true kinds, meanwhile, rule quietly, if at all, and hate ruling ;
too many of them make " il gran rifiuto "...
§ 44. Yet the visible king may also be a true one, some day,
if ever day comes when he will estimate his dominion by the
force of it,—not the geographical boundaries. It matters very
little whether Trent cuts you a cantel out here, or Rhine
rounds you a castle less there. But it does matter to you,
king of men, whether you can verUy say to this man, " Go,"
and he goeth ; and to another, " Come," and he cometh.
Whether you can turn your people, as you can Trent—and
where it is that you bid them come, and where go. It
matters to you, king of men, whether your people hate
you, or love you, and live by you. You may measure yoiir
dominion by multitudes, better than by mUes ; and count
degrees of love-latitude, not from, but to, a wonderfully warm
and infinite equator.
§ 45. Measure ! —nay, you cannot measure. Who shall mea-
sure the difference between the power of those who " do
and teach," and who are greatest in the kingdoms of earth, as
of heaven—and the power of those who undo, and consume
—
whose power, at the fullest, is only the power of the moth
and the rust ? Strange ! to think how the Moth-kings lay up
treasures for the moth : and the Rust-kings, who are to their
peoples' strength as rust to armour, lay up treasures for the
rust ; and the Robber-kings, treasures for the robber ; but
how few kings have ever laid up treasures that needed no
guarding—treasures of which, the more thieves there were, the
better ! Broidered robe, only to be rent ; helm and sword,
only to be dimmed ;
jewel and gold, only to be scattered ;
—
there have been three kinds of kings who have gathered these.
Suppose there ever should arise a Fourth order of kings, who
had read, in some obscure writing of long ago \Joh xxviii.],
that there was a Fourth kind of treasure, which the jewel and
gold could not equal, neither should it be valued with pure
gold. A web made fan* in the weaving, by Athena's shuttle ;
an armour, forged in divine fire by Vulcanian force ; a gold
to be mined in the very sun's red heart, where he sets
over the Delphian cliffs ; —deep-pictured tissue ; —impenetrable
armour ;
—potable gold ! —the three great Angels of Conduct,
Lxxxvii.] Comparison of Scripts. -
517
Toil, and Thought, still calhng to us, and waiting at the posts
of our doors, to lead us, with their winged power, and guide
us, with their unerrmg eyes, by the path which no fowl
knoweth, and which the vulture's eye has not seen ! Suppose
kings should ever arise, who heard and believed this word, and
at last gathered and brought forth treasures of—Wisdom—for
their people 1
§ 46. Think what an amazing business that would be ! How
inconceivable, in the state of our present national wisdom !
That we should bring up our peasants to a book exercise
instead of a bayonet exercise ! —organise, drill, maintain with
pay, and good generalship, armies of thinkers, instead of
armies of stabbers !
—find national amusement in reading-rooms
as weU as rifle-grounds ;
give prizes for a fair shot at a fact,
as well as for a leaden splash on a target. What an absurd
idea it seems, put fairly in words, that the wealth of the
capitalists of civihsed nations should ever come to support
literature instead of war !
§ 47. Have yet patience with me, while I read you a single
sentence out of the only book, properly to be called a book,
that I have yet wTitten myself, the one that will stand (if
anything stand), surest and longest of all work of mine.^
"It is one very a-\vful form of the operation of wealth
in Europe that it is entirely capitalists' wealth which
supports unjust wars. Just wars do not need so much
money to support them ; for most of the men who wage
such, wage them gratis ; but for an unjust war, men's
bodies and souls have both to be bought ; and the best
tools of war for them besides, which make such war
costly to the maximum ; not to speak of the cost of
base fear, and angry suspicion, between nations which have
not grace nor honesty enough in all their multitudes to
buy an hour's peace of mind with ;
as, at present, France
and England, purchasing of each other ten millions sterling
worth of consternation, annually . . . And, all unjust war
being supportable, if not by pillage of the enemy, only by
loans from capitalists, these loans are repaid by subsequent
^ Ruskin means Unto This Last. The passage quoted is a footnote in
the chapter in that work called " Ad Valorena."
518 J. G. Piddington. [part
taxation of the people, who appear to have no will in the
matter, the capitalists' will being the primary root of the
war ; but its real root is the covetousness of the whole
nation, rendering it incapable of faith, frankness, or justice,
and bringing about, therefore, in due time, his own sepa-
rate loss and punishment to each person." ^
§ 48. France and England literally, observe, buy panic of
each other ;
they pay, each of them, for ten thousand-thousand-
pounds'-worth of terror, a year. Now suppose, instead of buy-
ing these ten millions' worth of panic annually, they made up
their minds to be at peace with each other, and buy ten
millions' worth of knowledge annually ; and that each nation
spent its ten thousand thousand pounds a year in founding
royal libraries, royal art galleries, royal museums, royal gardens,
and places of rest. Might it not be better somewhat for both
French and English ?
§ 49. It wUl be long, yet, before that comes to pass . . .
§ 50. I could shape for you other plans, for art-galleries, and
for natural history galleries, and for many precious—many, it
seems to me, needful—things ; but this book plan is the
easiest and needfullest ^ . . . You have got its [England's]
corn laws repealed for it ;
try if you cannot get corn laws
established for it, dealing in a better bread ; —bread made of
that old enchanted Arabian grain, the Sesame, which opens
doors ; —doors not of robbers', but of Kings' Treasuries.
The preceding extracts come from the first part of
Sesame and Lilies, which is called " Sesame. Of Kings'
Treasuries," and deals with the duties of men. From the
second part, which is called " Lilies. Of Queens' Gardens,"
and deals with the duties of women, I add an extract
because of its connexion with the passages quoted from
the first part :
§ 90. But, alas ! you are too often idle and careless queens,
grasping at majesty in the least things, while you abdicate it
^ I do not for one moment suppose that the communicators wish us
to understand them as endorsing in detail the views expressed by
Ruskin in this passage and in other j^assages of his to which the Scripts
have referred. I take it that the stress is laid, not on the letter, but
on the spirit of Rusldn's writings.
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 519
in the greatest ; and leaving misrule and violence to work
their will among men, in defiance of the power which, holding
straight in gift from the Prince of all Peace, the wicked
among you betray, and the good forget.
§91. "Prince of Peace." Note that name. Wlien kings
rule in that name, and nobles, and the judges of the earth,
they also, in their narrow place, and mortal measure, receive
the power of it. There are no other rulers than they ; other
rule than theirs is but misrule ;
they who govern verily " Dei
Gratia " are all princes, yes, or princesses of Peace. There is
not a war in the world, no, nor an injustice, but you women
are answerable for it ; not in that you have provoked, but in
that you have not hindered.
With these passages compare the following extracts
from scripts :
King 79 {Dec. 17, 1913).
. . . Fire and sword— Hearken while there is yet
time—sweetness and light— Rust and moth do
corrupt . . .
This is the only occurrence of " Fire and sivord " in
King script. The only previous occurrence of the phrase
in any of the scripts is in
H. V. 31 {March 17, 1907).
. . . with fire and sword to purge the altar not
Avithout grief laurel leaves are emblem laurel for
the victor's brow Say not the struggle naught
availeth Sesame and Lilies . . .
Note the appearance here of " Say not the struggle,''
which is quoted no less than seven times in pre-War
King scripts ; and see footnote (28) thereon above.
H. V. 91 {June 1, 1908).
, . . Lay not up for yourselves treasure upon earth
something about moth and corruption and the worm
shall devour it Vanitas vanitatum . . .
Howbeit when they came to the edge of the hill
and looked down into the vale beneath they saw
before them a goodly stretch of cornland and vine-,
2 K
520 J. 0. Piddington. [part
yards but all uncared for and desolate the plough
yet standing in the field but none to guide and
I said to my companion Avhat is the reason of this
desolation and he said it is the ruin of a land of
promise for the rude and savage hordes have swept
down destroying all in then* path the men they slew
old and young warriors and husbandmen and the
women they bore into captivity Vae victis.
" Vae victis " is specially associated (see Livy, v. 48, 9)
with the tribute imposed by Brennus when he sacked
Rome in 390 B.C. I shall deal with two other occurrences
of the phrase later on.
i¥ac. 10 {July 27, 1908).
. . . Sesame and lilies—lotus the flower of repentance
. . . vanity of vanities all is vanity . . .
The point to remark here is that the Macs, who when
they wrote the above had seen neither H. V. 31 with its
reference to Sesame and LiKes nor H. V. 91 (of June 1,
1908) which has " Vanitas Vanitatum," combine these two
things.
I next turn to Willett script for confirmation of there
being a close connexion between " Lay not up for your-
selves treasures " and Sesame and Lilies.
W. 300 {Jtdy 14, 1912).
. . . where the heart is no where the treasure is
. . . Treasures Queens' treasuries . . . sound the
mysteries and the deep places in them lie the
richest treasures It is not in the obvious but in the
exoteric [clearly a slip for '
esoteric '] that the best
things lie . . . Sesame and Lilies sesame ... If
any man have two loaves let him sell one and buy
lilies There is no wealth but life
" Where the treasure is " belongs, of course, to the
context of " Lay not up for yourselves treasures : For
where your treasure is, there will your heart be also,"
" Queens' treasuries " is obviously reminiscent of the title
of the first part of Sesame and Lilies :
" Of Kings'
Treasuries."
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 521
" There is no wealth but Kfe " is a quotation—printed in
capital letters in the original—from Ad Valorem.
" Ad Valorem " is the name of the fourth Essay in
Ruskin's IJyito This Last, and it is from Ad Valorem that
Ruskin in § 47 of Sesame and Lilies quotes the passage
beginning "It is one very awful form of the operation of
wealth in Europe that it is entirely capitalists' wealth
which supports unjust wars." Reference to Ad Valorem
will show how intimate the relation is between this
passage and the context of " there is no avealth but
LIFE," which will be found on the page immediately
following.
The last reference to " Lay not up for yourselves
treasures " which we need consider is in one of ]\Ii-s.
Verrall's scripts :
M. V. 540 {Aug. 20, 1913).
. . . Silver and gold have I none {Acts m. 6.]
—
Ave Roma Immortalis Why should a man lay up
treasure on earth where thieves break through and
steal—Neither moth nor rust . . .
Here I take " Silver and gold have I none " to be
connected with—though not to refer directly to
—
Job
xxviii. 15-17 :
It \i.e. Wisdom] cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall
silver be weighed for the price thereof. It cannot be
valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or
the sapphire. The gold and the crystal cannot equal it
:
and the exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine
gold.
It is these verses that Ruskin paraphrases in § 45 of
Sesame and Lilies :
Suppose there ever should arise a Fomth order of kings,
who had read, in some obscure writing of long ago, that
there was a Fom'th kind of treasure, which the jewel and
gold could not equal, neither should it be valued with pure
gold.
" Ave Roma Immortalis " is a reference back to the
Cross-Correspondence on the subject of Raphael's picture
522 J. G. Piddington. [part
of the meeting between Attila and Leo the Great {Proc,
Vol. XXI., pp. 297-303), when Leo, relying solely on
spiritual force, saved Rome from the invading Huns.
The evidence for the connexion of " Lay not up for
yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth
corrupt " with Sesame and Lilies may be thus tabulated :
King 79. Fire & Sword Rust & Moth
H. V. 31. Fire & SworJ Sesame & Lilies
H. V. 91. Rust & Moth Vanity of Vanities
Iliac. 10. Sesame k Lilies Vanity of Vanities
W. 300. Rust & Moth Sesame & Lilies
It will be remembered that in the first script—H. V. 91
—containing the text " Lay not up for yourselves trea-
sures " there follows a description of a scene of desolation
caused by the invasion of " rude and savage hordes," the
description ending with the words " Vae Victis," " Woe to
the Vanquished." These words, spoken by Brennus at
the sack of Rome, appear once again in Mrs. Salter's
script in the following context :
H. V. 116 {Sept. 23, 1908).
Atrox incubitans Poenus Hannibal and another
devastator vae victis the pestilence that walks by
day . . .
" Fae victis " occurs in its EngUsh form in a script
written on Nov. 13, 1910,^ by Mrs. Willett, who by that
date had seen both the H. V. scripts in which " Vae
victis " occurs. Note, however, the new apphcation which
Mrs. Willett gives to the phrase. She refers neither to
Brennus nor to Hannibal, but to that other enemy of
Rome, Attila the Hun, and to War generally :
W. 225 {Nov. 13, 1910).
... I want the thought conveyed of Multitudes
Marching to glory and to death AuUa Attila let
the Avord stand Let the words come to you a Blank
1 " Woe to the vanquished " occurs once again in Willett script :
namely, in one of the scripts relating to the Ear of Dionysius. It is
there introduced simply as a way of getting an allusion to the slave-
workers in the stone -quarries of Syracuse.
Lxxxvn.] Comfarisoyi of Scripts. 523
but of others understandable War the pomp and
panoply of War . . . yes I want the sound of clash
Din of Battles Mortals in contest . . . They will
sift the gold from the di-oss don't mind dross so
long as I mix my gold Avith it Captives and Slaves
Victus . . . Macedoine de fruit the fruit was bitter
to some Sound the trumpets Beat the not plough-
shares One crowded hour of splendid life the Way
to highest glory leads but to the grave Woe to the
vanquished How sleep the Brave [who sink to rest
By all their country's wishes blest !] . . .
" HAD ZIMRI PEACE, WHO SLEW HIS MASTER ?
"
See King 202.
The original source of this text is 2 Kings ix. 31 ;
but
it is used, I believe, in Iving 202, not as an allusion to
the story of the death oi Jezebel, but as one of several
allusions to the following passage in the last chapter of
Ruskin's Modern Painters, entitled " Peace " :
Extracts from the Chapter entitled " Peace " in
Ruskin's Modern Painters (Part IX., Ch. XII.).
§ 16. Blind from the prison-house, maimed from the battle,
or mad from the tombs, their souls shall surely yet sit,
astonished, at His feet Who giveth peace.
§ 17. Who giveth peace ? Many a peace we have made and
named for ourselves, but the falsest is in that marvellous
thought that we, of aU generations of the earth, only know
the right ; and that to us at last,—to us alone,—all the
scheme of God, about the salvation of men, has been shown.
" This is the light in which we are walking. Those vain
524 ./. G. Piddingfon. [PABT
Greeks are gone down to their Persephone for ever—Egypt
and Assyria, Elani and her multitude,—uncircumcised, their
graves are round about them—Pathros and careless Ethiopia
—
filled with the slain. Rome, with her thirsty sword, and
jjoison wine, how did she walk in her darkness ! We only
have no idolatries—ours are the seeing eyes ; in our pure
hands at last, the seven-sealed book is laid ; to our true
tongues entrusted the preaching of a perfect gospel. Who
shall come after us ? Is it not Peace ? The poor Jew,
Zimri, who slew his master, there is no peace for him : but,
for us ? tiara on head, may we not look out of the windows
of heaven ?
"
§ 18. Another kind of peace I look for than this . . .
I do not know v/hat my England desires, or how long she
will choose to do as she is doing now ; —with her right hand
casting away the souls of men, and with her left the gifts
of God.
In the prayers which she dictates to her children, she tells
them to fight against the world, the flesh, and the devil.
Some day, perhaps, it may also occur to her as desirable to
teU those children what she means by this. What is the
world which they are to " fight with," and how does it differ
from the world which they are to " get on in " ? The ex-
planation seems to me the more needful, because I do not, in
the book we profess to five by, find anything very distinct
about fighting with the world. I fuid something about fighting
with the rulers of its darkness,^ and somethmg also about
overcoming it ; but it does not follow that this conquest is to
be by hostility, since evil may be overcome with good.^ But
I find it written very distinctly that God loved the world, and
that Christ is the light of it.
§ 19. What the much-used words, therefore, mean, I cannot
tell. But this, I believe, they shoidd mean. That there is,
indeed, one world which is full of care, and desire, and hatred :
a world of war, of which Christ is not the light, which indeed
is without light, and has never heard the great " Let there
be." 3 Which is, therefore, in truth, as yet no world ; but
^ E'phes. vi. 12. See footnote (102) to pre-War King scripts above.
Rom. xii. 21. See footnote (192) to pre-War King scripts above.
3 Gen. i. 3. See below (pp. 545-547) under " The Violet Crown."
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of ScrijAs. 525
chaos, on the face of which, moving, the Spirit of God yet
causes men to hope that a world will come. The better one,
they call it : perhaps they might, more wisely, call it the real
one. Also, I hear them speak continually of gomg to it,
rather than of its coming to them ;
which, again, is strange,
for in that prayer which they had straight from the lips of
the Light of the world, and which He apparently thought
sufficient prayer for them, there is not anything about going to
another world ;
only something of another government coming
into this ; or rather, not another, but the only government,
—
that government which will constitute it a world indeed. New
heavens and new earth ^ . . .
§ 20. " Thy kingdom come," we are bid to ask then ! But
how shall it come ? With power and great glory, it is written;
and yet not with observation, it is also written. Strange
kingdom ! Yet its strangeness is renewed to us with every
dawn.
When the time comes for us to wake out of the world's
sleep, why should it be otherwise than out of the dreams of
the night ? Singing of birds, first, broken and low, as, not
to dying eyes, but eyes that wake to life, " the casement
slowly grows a glimmering square " ; and then the gray, and
then the rose of dawn ; and last the light, whose going forth
is to the ends of heaven.
This kingdom it is not in our power to bring ;
but it is,
to receive. Nay, it is come aheady, in part ;
but not re-
ceived, because men love chaos best ;
and the Night, with her
daughters . . . With pains it may be shut out still from many
a dark place of cruelty ;
by sloth it may be stUl unseen for
many a glorious hour. But the pain of shutting it out must
grow greater and greater :
—harder, every day, that struggle of
man with man in the abyss, and shorter wages for the fiend's
work. But it is stUl at our choice . . . The choice is no
vague nor doubtful one. High on the desert mounbam, full
descried, sits throned the tempter, with his old promise—the
kingdoms of this world, and the glory of them. He still calls
you to your labour, as Christ to your rest ; —labour and
sorrow, base desire, and cruel hope. So far as you desire to
possess, rather than to give ; so far as you look for power to
1 See below under " The Violet Crown," p 546.
526 J. G. Piddington. [part
command, instead of to bless ; so far as your own prosperity
seems to you to issue out of contest or rivalry, of any kind,
with other men, or other nations ; so long as the hope before
you is for supremacy instead of love ; and your desire is to be
greatest, instead of least ;
—so long you are serving the Lord
of all that is last, and least ; —^the last enemy that shall be
destroyed—Death ; and you shall have death's crown, with
the worm coiled in it ; and death's wages, with the worm
feeding on them . . .
I leave you to judge, and to choose, between this labour,
and the bequeathed peace ; these wages, and the gift of the
Morning Star ...
There are, I believe, allusions in the scripts of some
of the other automatists to this passage ; but I shall in
this instance depart from the plan, elsewhere observed in
this part of my paper, of comparing pre-War King scripts
with the scripts of the other automatists, and compare
the Ruskin passage with extracts from King scripts only.
Whereas it was necessary to go outside King scripts to
discover the significance attaching to " Lay not up for
yourselves treasures," this course is vmnecessary in the
case of " Had Zimri peace ?
" ; for if King 202 be read
in connexion with King 65 and 161, these three scripts
in combination present coincidences with the passage in
Modern Painters too marked, it seems to me, to be
attributed to chance.
In considering these three scripts, the reader should
bear in mind the repeated use in King scripts of the
Dawn as a symbol of a happier era ; and should further
observe that the topic of Peace coming out of great
tribulation is common to the first and third scripts, and
the Dawn topic to aU three (for " light " in Iving 202 is
equivalent to the " new light " of King 161).
King 65 {December 1, 1913).
Let not your heart be troubled Out of great
tribulation cometh great peace, for when the waters
have been troubled an angel stOleth them . . .
Do you know that not one of us cares for hegemony
—
we are aU brothers in love—there is no hate among us . . .
Lxxxvn.] Cow,parison of Scri'pts. 527
Open wide your casements to the dawn Blow
bugles blow Usher in the happy morn . . .
King 161 {April 25, 1914).
. . . This cry de profundis is the cry of the world
now, it is the dark moment before new light—the
purple shadows of the dawn come first then the rose
> red rays—and then the Sun of Day . . .
King 202 {July 27, 1914).
. . . Peace had Zimri peace who slew his master
. . . Great trial & tribulation but in the end peace
& hght
The passage in Modern Painters combines
(a) "Is it not Peace ? The poor Jew, Zimri, who slew
his master, there is no peace for him : but, for us ?
" ;
{b)
" Singing of birds, first, broken and low, as, not to
dying eyes, but eyes that wake to life, '
the casement
slowly grows a glimmering square ' " : i.e. partly a para-
phrase and partly a quotation from " Tears, idle tears,"
one of the songs in Tennyson's Princess ;
(c)
" and then the gray, and then the rose of dawn ;
and last the light, whose going forth is to the ends of
heaven " ; and
{d) " so long as the hope before you is for supremacy
instead of love ; and your desire to be greatest, instead
of least," " so far as you look for power to command,
instead of to bless."
King 65, 161, and 202 combine
(a) " Peace had Zimri peace who slew his master ?
" ;
{b)
" Open wide your casements to the dawn " followed
by " Blow, bugles blow," which is meant, no doubt, for
" Blow, bugle, blow," the refrain of another of the songs
in Tennyson's Princess ;
(c)
" the purple shadows of the dawn come first then
the rose red rays—and then the Sun of Day " ;
and
{d) " not one of us cares for hegemony—we are all
brothers in love—there is no hate among us."
528 J. G. Piddington. [part
" MERCY AND TRUTH." j
See King 30, 64, 164, 184, 204.
As is shown by King 64, the reference is to Psalm
Ixxxv. :
Shew us thy mercy, 0 Lord, and grant us thy salvation, j
I wUl hear what God the Lord wiU speak : for he will
speak peace unto his people, and to his saints : but let
them not tm-n agam to folly . . . Mercy and truth are
met together : righteousness and peace have kissed each
other. Truth shall spring out of the earth ; and righteous- J
ness shaU look down from heaven.
To the best of my belief this verse about Mercy and
Truth is not quoted by any other automatist. At the
same time there are clear references to the need for Mercy
in other scripts, especially in Mrs. Salter's. Before quoting
these, however, I will cite from a post-War script of
Mrs. Kling's a passage in which the quotation from Psalm
Ixxxv. reappears :
Ki7ig 555 {Jaymary 12, 1921).
. . . Bind up the broken limbs, pour oil into the
wounds in faith, slowly slowly comes the dawn of
better things (Long pause.) . . . ring out wild beUs
—
Mercy & truth have kissed each other . . .
" Ring out, wild bells " are the first words of Section
CVI. of Tennyson's In Meinoriam :
Ring in the love of truth and right,
Ring in the common love of good.
Ring out old shapes of foul disease ;
Ring out the narrowing lust of gold ;
Ring out the thousand wars of old,
Ring in the thousand years of peace.
It may be urged that by January 1921, Mrs. King had
had plenty of time in which to think over her pre-War
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 529
scripts, and interpret them in the light of actual events.
I would not deny the possibility, but I would point out
that Mrs. King could not have known that in two pre-
War scripts Mrs. Verrall had already connected the In
Memoriam passage with the idea of Clemency and Pity.
Thus :
M.'V. 513 [February 4, 1913).
Oranges and lemons—and the rhyme is St. Clemens
—San Clemente with the mosaics No wait—you
have it wrong
Clementia et misericordia . . .
M. V. 601 {April 5, 1914).
Oranges & lemons say the bells of St Clements St
Clements Danes
Don't stop because you thuik you understand You
wiU find you have not fully understood.
Write again St Clements Danes.
Rmg out wild bells
Ring out the thousand years of wars
Ring in the NEW Print that large NEW...
I will now Illustrate how the topic of Mercy is dealt
with in the scripts of automatists other than Mrs. King.
M. V. 448 {March 6, 1912).
. . . Now write another sentence which has its
meaning too The quality of Mercy is not strained
. . . Let go, let go—Mittere in its proper sense
—
And Remittere, as weU as Remit, means only letting
the thing go, not always back, but to its proper shape
& place— Peccata remitto, I let go the error . . .
H. V. 278 {SejJt. 23, 1912).
the trumpet shah sound—the last trump the day
of judgement dies irae the angel of death Behold
I tell you a miracle judgement judge not the
quahty of mercy is not stramed The judgement seat
on high—on the right hand of God—the sheep and
the goats—the sinner that repenteth . . .
In connexion with the repeated references in this script
to the Day of Judgement, I may remind the reader of
530 J. G. Piddington. [part
what has been stated earher, namely, that the Eschato-
logical Discourses in the Gospels have been largely drawn
upon by the communicators, who represent the Great
War as the end of a world, a Day of Judgement, and
the beginning of a Millennium.
" Judge not," as the context in the script shows, is a
reference to Luke vi. 37 rather than to Matt. vii.
1
':
But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend,
hoping for nothing again ; and your reward shall be great,
and ye shall be the children of the Highest ; for he is
kind unto the unthankful, and to the evil. Be ye there-
fore merciful, as your Father also is merciful. Judge not,
and ye shall not be judged : condemn not, and ye shaU
not be condemned : forgive, and ye shall be forgiven.
"Be ye therefore merciful "—^unexpressed, but implicit
in " judge not "—has evidently led on to " the quality of
mercy is not strained " : the first line of Portia's famous
speech in Act IV., Sc. 1 of The Merchant of Venice.
H. V. 419a {June 12, 1915).
The last days—the end of Time . . . the pool of
Bethesda & the Garden of Gethsemane—rain from
Heaven . . .
" The last days " may be compared with the references
to the Last Judgement in H. V. 278.
On July 9, 1915, Mrs. Salter told me that she was
inclined to connect " rain from Heaven " with
" The quality of mercy is not strain'd,
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven,"
which she remembered had been quoted in one of her
previous scripts {i.e. in H. V. 278). In support of this
suggestion she remarked that since her script was written
she had discovered that " Bethesda " is interpreted by
some authorities to mean " House of Mercy."
Before passing on to the next script, I would ask the
reader to bear in mind the reference here to " the Pool
of Bethesda," as it is a topic found also in pre-War King
scripts. I shaU deal with it in the next Section.
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 531
H. V. 535 {Dec. 17, 1919).
... a golden chest areopagite a shower of gold
Galhleo [sic]— You are wandering—gold golden rain
from heaven—the just & unjust ...
In view of the succeeding " golden rain from heaven,"
" A golden chest " is clearly an approach to the subject of
Shakespeare's play, The Merchant of Venice. Portia's
lovers had to make their choice of three chests or caskets,
one of gold, one of silver, and the other of lead. A
similarly odd approach to the play occurs in H. V. 516,
which has " Mercator " : it being explained in the next
script, H. V. 517, that by "Mercator" The Merchant of
Venice was meant :
Merchant— Mercator—the merchant of Venice was meant
—not merely the play but the idea.
By " the idea " is meant, no doubt, Portia's plea for
mercy in opposition to Shylock's insistence on the letter
of the law. This interpretation is confirmed by " areo-
pagite," which is an allusion to the Court of the
Areiopagus, and is one of many allusions in the scripts to
the Eumenides of Aeschylus.
" Eumenides," the Kindly Ones, was the name given to
the Erinyes, or Avenging Goddesses, after Athene had by
gentle persuasion softened their pitiless spirit. The follow-
ing passage in Jebb's Introduction to his edition of the
Oedipus Coloneiis of Sophocles not only gives in succinct
form the story of the Eumenides of Aeschylus, but it wall
Hkewise serve to explain what is meant by " areopagite
"
here and by the many allusions in the scripts to Aes-
chylus' play :
The ancient rigour which required that bloodshed,
whether dehberate or not, should be expiated by blood,
was expressed by the older idea of the Erinyes, the
implacable pursuers. The metamorphosis of the Erinyes
into the Eumenides corresponds with a later and milder
sense that bloodshed is compatible with varying degrees of
guilt, ranging from premeditated murder to homicide in
seH-defence or by accident. Athenian legend claimed that
532 J. G. Piddington. [part
this transformation of the Avengers took place in Attica,
and that the institution of the court on the Areiopagus
marked the moment. The claim was a mythical expres-
sion of qualities which history attests in the Athenian
character, and of which the Athenians themselves were
conscious as distinguishing them from other Greeks. It
was Athenian to temper the letter of the law with con-
siderations of equity [Tov-n-itLKe.^) ; to use clemency ;
^ to
feel compassion (alSm) for unmerited misfortune ; to shelter
the oppressed ; to restrict the sphere of violence ; and to
sacrifice,—where no other Greeks did,—at the altar of
Persuasion. This character is signally impressed on the
Oedipus Coloneus, and is personified in Theseus.^ The
first session of the tribunal on the Hill of Ares {i.e. the
Areiopagus, the " Mars' Hill " of Acts xvii. 22] was, in Attic
story, ^ the first occasion on which this humane character
asserted itself against a hitherto inflexible precedent.
Orestes slew his mother to avenge his father, whom she
had slain ; and the Erinyes demanded his blood. He is
tried, and acquitted,—but not by the Erinyes ;
by Athene
and her Athenian court. The Erinyes are the accusers,
and Apollo is counsel for the prisoner. Then it is,
—
after
the acquittal of Orestes,—that Athene's gentle pleading
effects a change in the defeated Avengers. They cease to
be the Erinyes : they become the '
Benign '
or '
Majestic
'
goddesses (' Eumenides,' '
Semnae '), and are installed, as
guardian deities of Attica, in a shrine beneath the Areio-
pagus.
" Areio'pagite " is followed by " Gallileo " ; but this, as
the comment—" you are wandering "—shows, is a mistake.
The script goes back to " gold," and thence passes to
" golden rain from heaven." These words, like the earlier
" rain from heaven " in H. V. 419a, are an allusion to
1 See M. V. 513 and 601, p. 529 above ; and the comments on M. V.
3099 under " Vengeance is mine," p. 559 below.
2 After reading the Section entitled " The Violet Crown," cf. H V. 222,
of Oct. 17, 1910 :
" Theseus King of Athens Atliens the golden violet
crowned."
^ This is the story on which the Eumenides of Aeschylus is based.
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 533
Portia's speech in Act IV., Scene 1 of The Merchant of
Venice :
The quahty of mercy is not strain'd,—
•
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
Upon the place beneath : it is twice bless'd,
—
It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes :
"
'Tis mightiest in the mightiest : it becomes
The throned monarch better than his crown ;
His sceptre shows the force of temporal power,
The attribute to awe and majesty,
Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings ;
But mercy is above this sceptred sway,
—
It is enthroned in the hearts of kings.
It is an attribute of God himself ;
And earthly power doth then show likest God's
When mercy seasons justice.
" The just mid unjust " comes from the Sermon on the
Mount (Matt. v. 45). I quote the context :
Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love
thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy :
But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that
curse you, do good to them that hate you, and persecute
you ;
That ye may be the children of your Father, which is in
heaven : for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on
the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.
With the last words compare the words in Luke vi.
quoted under H. V. 278 above (p. 530) :
" for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil."
It must not be supposed that these few scripts exhaust
what may be called the Mercy topic. They touch merely
the fringe of it, and are given by way of illustration only.
Another development of it, as already stated, will be
found under the heading of " Vengeance is mine "
(pp.
554-570 below).
I drew attention above to the connexion in H. V. 419a
of " The quality of mercy " with " the pool of Bethesda,"
534 J. G. Piddington. [part
because there is a reference to the latter in a pre-War
King script. It will accordingly be convenient to deal
with the topic of the Pool of Bethesda next.
THE POOL OP BETHESDA.
The reference to the Pool of Bethesda in a pre-War
King script is as follows :
King 65 (December 1, 1913).
Let not your heart be troubled Out of great
tribulation cometh great peace, for when the waters
have been troubled an angel stilleth them . . . not one
of us cares for hegemony—we are all brothers in
love—there is no hate among us . . .
Open wide your casements to the dawn Blow
bugles blow Usher in the happy morn . . .
With the latter part of this script, from " not one of
us cares for hegemony " down to the end, I have already
dealt above (pp. 523-527), and shown that it is one of
several allusions to a passage in the last chapter of
Modern Painters.
" Let not your heart he troubled " are the opening words
of Johii XXV., and are repeated in v. 27 of the same
chapter :
Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you :
not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your
heart be troubled, neither be afraid.
Perhaps compare the last words of the extract given
above (p. 526) from § 20 of Ruskin's chapter " Peace " in
Modern Painters :
I leave you. to judge, and to choose, between this labour,
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 535
and the bequeathed peace ; these wages, and the gift of
the Mornmg Star.
But the reference is not only, I think, to John xiv.
In view of the fact that " Let not your heart be troubled
"
is immediately followed by " Out of great tribulation cometh
great peace,'' there seems to me to be a reference as weU
to Matthew xxiv. 6, 20, and 21 :
And ye shall hear of wars, and rumours of wars : see
that ye he not troubled : for all these things must come to
pass, but the end is not yet . . .
But pray ye that your flight be not m the whiter,
neither on the sabbath-day : For then shall be great
tribulation, such as was not from the beginning of the
world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.
" When the ivaters have been troubled an angel stilleth
them.'" In John v. we read :
Now there is at Jerusalem ... a pool, which is called
in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. In
these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of bhnd,
halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. For
an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and
troubled the water : whosoever then fij'st after the troub-
ling of the water stepped in, was made whole of whatso-
ever disease he had.
Although the script reverses the metaphor, and makes
the angel calm the troubled waters, it can hardly be
disputed that a reference is intended to the Pool of
Bethesda.
With King 65 compare the following script of Mrs.
Salter's :
H. V. 419a {June 12, 1915).
The last days—the end of Time—^the water—across
the water—& he walked upon the water—the pool of
Bethesda & the Garden of Gethsemane—raui from
heaven ...
Here "the pool of Bethesda" is preceded by a reference
2l
536 J. G. Pidclington. [part
to Christ's walking on the water. I quote from the
account in Mark vi. :
And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into
the ship, and to go to the other side before unto Beth-
saida, while he sent away the people. And when he had
sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray.
And when even was come, the ship was in the midst of
the sea, and he alone on the land. And he saw them
toiling in rowing ; for the wind was contrary unto them :
and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto
them, walking upon the sea, and would have passed by
them. But when they saw him walking upon the sea,
they supposed it had been a spirit, and cried out . . .
And immediately he taUved with them, and saith unto
them. Be of good cheer : it is I ; be not afraid. And he
went up unto them into the ship ; and the wmd ceased.
With H. V. 419a and with King 65 compare the following
script of Mrs. Stuart Wilson's :
Wilson 12 [July 5, 1915).
... A pool of troubled water at the foot of a
cataract, with people apparently drowning in the
eddies. To my surprise I see by the angel whose
wings are half dipped in the water it is meant for
Bethsaida [s?'c].
The valley of Jehoshaphat, which I have reaUy
seen, and the impression that what you reaUy want
is an allusion to the dry bones that were brought to
life. I cannot remember the story. Of course,
according to both Jew and Mussulman the valley of
Jehoshaphat wiU be the scene of the Last Judgement
At the time this script was produced Mrs. Wilson was
carrying on experiments in telepathy between herself and
Mrs. Salter ;
^ and this explains the words " the imqiression
that what you want " :
" you " meaning Mrs. Salter. Mrs.
Wilson had not seen H. V. 419a of some three weeks
earlier with its successive allusions to Christ's walking on
the water and to the Pool of Bethesda.
1 See Proceedings, Vol. XXIX. pp. 306-349.
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 537
The very curious slip in Wilson 12 of " Bethsaida " for
" Bethesda " looks like a confusion between the Pool of
Bethesda and the account of the walking on the water in
Mark vi., where it is said that Christ constrained his
disciples "to go to the other side before unto Bethsaida."
There is an odd analogy between Mrs. Wilson's reference
to the Pool of Bethesda and Mrs. King's : in Mrs. Wilson's
script the pool of troubled water is one in which men are
drowned, not healed ; while in Mrs. King's script the
troubled waters are hkewise, not waters of healing, but
stormy waters—waters of tribulation—which an angel has
to calm.
Mrs. Salter connects the Pool of Bethesda with " The
last days^—the end of time " ; Mrs. King connects it with
the " great tribulation " that is to precede the end of the
world ; Mrs. Wilson connects it with the Last Judgement
in the VaUey of Jehoshaphat.
The Judgement in the Valley of Jehoshaphat is a
reference to Joel iii. Parts of the chapter must be
quoted in order to bring out the close analogy between
it and the Eschatological Discourses in the Synoptists :
For, behold in those days, and in that time, when
I shaU bring again the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem,
I will also gather all nations, and ^\all bring them down
into the vaUey of Jehoshaphat, and "will plead with them
there for my people and for my heritage Israel, whom
they have scattered among the nations, and parted my
land . . .
Proclaim ye this among the Gentries ;
Prepare war,
wake up the mighty men, let all the men of war draw
near ; let them come up : Beat your plowshares into
swords, and your pruning-hooks into spears . . . Assemble
yourselves, and come, aU ye heathen . . . Let the heathen
be wakened, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat ;
for there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about.
Put ye in the sickle ; for the harvest is ripe : come, get
you down ; for the press is full, the fats overflow ; for
theh wickedness is great. Multitudes, multitudes in the
valley of decision : for the day of the Lord is near in the
538 J. 0. Piddington. [part
valley of decision. The sun and the moon shall be
darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their shining.
The prophecy ends by declaring the destruction of the
enemies of Israel, and the return of peace and prosperity
to Jerusalem.
With the Joel passage and the Pool of Bethesda Wilson
script unites Ezekiel's vision " in the midst of the valley
which was full of bones" {Ezek. xxxvii.). The burden, of
this vision is the revival of the whole house of Israel and
the reunion of the disunited kingdoms of Judah and
Ephraim. It is the promise of the healing of a nation.
The last reference made by any of the automatists to
the Pool of Bethesda is in a script written by Mrs. King,
who, it must be borne in mind, had seen neither H. V.
419a nor Wilson 12 :
King 328 {Dec. 26, 1915).
... Be content—& wait—for the end cometh
gather up your loins for the coming of the dawn
The Palatinate Be assured that all is weU— The
healing of the nations in the Pool of Bethesda
—
Mary is more needed than Martha ...
Here, it will be observed, it is the healing of the
nations, not the healing of a nation, that is promised ;
and this healing of the nations is connected with the
Coming of the End and the Coming of the Dawn, and
wdth the reiteration of the phrase " All is well " that is
found no less than 7 times in pre-War King scripts.
The phrase " the healing of nations " comes from
Revelation xxii. 2, part of the description of John the
Divine's vision of " the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming
down from God, out of heaven, prepared as a bride
adorned for her husband."
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 539
" THE VIOLET CROWN."
See King 115 and 157.
This phrase " the Violet Crown " occurs twice in the
pre-War King scripts : first in King 115, wliere it is
immediately preceded by " Follow the gleam," and sec-
ondly in King 157, where it is immediately followed
by " the seven hiUs," i.e. the seven hills of Rome. After
the outbreak of war it occurs three times, as follows :
Parmenides The violet crown— Cast thy net into the
sea— Creon The city of God
(King 237, of March 16, 1915) ;
The Lesbian— Creon—the mantle of snow Hermettus
[sic, in obvious error for " Hymettus "], the violet crown
(Kmg 293, of July 30, 1915) ;
Over the blue Ionian Sea—the sails are set to HeUas
The fallen Kings The barge upon the river—& the swans
flying overhead & Archelion The crown the violet crown
(King 347, of April 23, 1916).
These extracts place it beyond doubt that " the Violet
Crown " in King script means Athens : Pindar's
w Tui XtTrapai Koi ioa-T€<pavoi Kai aolSijULoi,
EXXa^o? epeicr/uLay /cXetJ/ai ^AOavai, ^aL/j-oviov TTToXleQpov,^
and Swinburne's
Dear city of men without master or lord
Fair fortress and fostress of sons born free
A wonder enthroned on the hiUs and sea,
A maiden crowned with a fourfold glory
That none from the pride of her head may rend,
Violet, and olive-leaf piu-ple and hoary.
Song-wreath and story the fahest of fame,
^ For a translation of these lines see footnote on p. 546 below.
540 J. G. Piddington. [part
Flowers that the winter can blast not or bend ;
A light uj)on earth as the sun's own flame,
A name as his name,
Athens, a praise without end.
The combination of " the violet crown " with " Follow
the gleam" in King 115, and with "the city of God" in
King 237, may be reminiscences of similar combinations in
scripts of Mrs. Verrall's which have been published in
Proceedings ; but no script known to Mrs. King through
publication or otherwise can have suggested to her the
combination in King 157 of " the violet crown " of Athens
with " the seven hills " of Rome.
The first mention of the City of the Violet Crown
occurs in
M. V. 148 {March 11, 1907).i
Violet and olive leaf purple and hoary The city of
the violet and olive crown. News will come of her.
of Athens ^
The next mention comes in
J/. V. 171 (Ajjril 29, 1907).3
Victor in Poesy Victor in Romance and Lord of
Human Tears . . . pro patria . . . But I mean a
wider thmg, a universal country, the mother of us all,
Not '
0 fair city of Cecrops,'
but Oh fan- city of God.
That gives one clue—I have long wanted to say
that— I tried before— I spoke of Athens [i.e. in
M. V. 148], but you did not complete.
Golden City of God. The city of Cecrops is violet
and hoary—look back at that [see M. V. 148]. The
1 For chief references to this script in Proceedings, see Vol. XXII.,
pp. 145, 177 ; Vol. XXVII., p. 99.
2 A good instance of how an automatist's normal thoughts may
intrude and deflect. Mrs. Verrall's friend Miss Jane Harrison was at
Athens at the time this script was written. Hence the words :
" News
will come of her."
3 For chief references in Proceedings to this script see Vol. XXII.,
p. 178, and Vol. XXVI., pp. 182 ff.
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 541
Universal City is all colours and no colour, but best
described as a golden GLEAM.
" Victor in Poesy \sic, in error for " Drama "], Victor in
Romance " are the opening words of a short poem of
thanks addressed by Tennyson to Victor Hugo. If the
references to "a universal country " that foUow are taken
into consideration, I think it will be admitted that it is
the first five of the following lines in this short poem of
14 Unes that are aimed at :
Stormy voice of France !
Who dost not love our England—so they say ;
I know not—England, France, aU man to be
Will make one people ere man's race be run :
And I, desiring that diviner day.
Yield thee fuU thanks for thy full courtesy
To younger England in the boy my son.
" The mother of us all,'' though ]\Irs. VerraU herself did
not recognise the source of it, is, I have no doubt, from
Galatians iv. 26. I quote the context :
Which things are an allegory : for these are the two
covenants ; the one from the mount Sinai, which gendereth
to bondage, which is Agar.
For this Agar is mount Sinai m Arabia, and answereth
to Jerusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her
children.
But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the
mother of us all.
" Not '
0 fair city of Cecrops ' " is from the Meditations
of Marcus Aurehus :
AU thmgs are harmonious to me which are harmonious
to thee, 0 Universe ... AU is fruit to me which thy
seasons, O Nature, bear. From thee are aU things, and
in thee aU, and aU return to thee. The poet says, '
Dear
city of Cecrops '
; shaU I not say, '
Dear city of God '
1
Probably this quotation from the Meditations was
selected not only because it serves to hnk the city of
Cecrops {i.e. Athens the city of the violet crown) with
542 J, G. Piddmgton. [p^rT
the Golden City of God {i.e. the New Jerusalem of John's
vision), but also because of Marcus Aurelius' Cosmopoli-
tanism. For the Roman Philosopher-Emperor thus speaks
in his Meditations :
Man, a citizen of the supreme city, of which aU other
cities in the world are as it were but houses and famihes ;
(Book III. 2)
and
If reason is general, then is there that reason also,
which prescribeth what is to be done and what not,
common unto all. If that, then laAv. If law, then are
we fellow-citizens. If so, then are we partners in some
one commonweal. If so, then the world is as it were
a city ;
(Book IV. 4)
or again :
And my nature is, to be rational in all my actions and
as a good, and natural member of a city and common-
wealth, towards my fellow members ever to be socially
and kindly disposed and affected. My city and country,
as I am Antoninus, is Rome ; as a man, the whole world.
"The Golden Gleam;' like Mrs. King's "Follow the
gleam," is a reference to Tennyson's poem Merlin and the
Gleam, and doubtless stands for the pursuit of an ideal,
and the ideal in this case must be that of universal
brotherhood.
I pass on now to the next reference in Mrs. Verrall's
script to the City of the Violet Crown. It comes in a
script written on the day that England declared war on
Germany, August 4, 1914 :
M. V. 632 (August 4, 1914. 10.30 p.m.).
There is a connexion which you have not seen
between the message in the mountains whence
came h e 1 p—remember that, and your present feel-
ing— Don't investigate or take this too literally
—
And remember that you, you yourself gained some-
thing from the writing there— There is a phrase in
one of [Mi's. Willett's] scripts which may help you to
understand The afterglow on the Soul's sm-face . . .
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 543
rest in the thought that care and love prevails and
that beyond these voices there is peace . . .
Dear city of God—be a citizen of that city and of
no lesser
—
Dear City of men without master or lord That is
the city of us all if we will make it so— And the
city of Cecrops is also the wearer of the olive crown
—
The first part of this script relates to an incident that
took place in Switzerland. Mrs. Verrall went to Switzer-
land early in June 1914, and visited Zermatt, Saas-Grund,
and—for the last five days—Vermala. On her return
journey she wrote to me, from Lausanne, on July 1,
1914, a letter about her stay at Vermala, which is unlike
any other of the many letters I have received from her
in connexion with her scripts. It ran thus :
You must have been overwhelmed with my Vermala
scripts, such long things too ...
I can't now remember much what they were all about,
but I have a strong impression that something of iiuport-
ance—in the S.P.R. line, I mean—took place in those
5 days : it's very odd, and I think my impression may be
derived from a script—or rather that a script may record
the impression. Nor can I say what happened,—only (it
sounds absurd, but I feel as if I ought to make a note
of this) something was radically altered between Friday,
June 26, and the morning of Tuesday, June 30 ! I think
it is something in me, but I am not quite sure ! Anyhow
I woke on Tuesday with the strong feeling that the
purpose for which '
they '
wanted me to come to Switzer-
land was now accomplished : for a long time I have, as
I may have told you, felt that '
they '
wanted me to go
to the Alps, but tOl Tuesday last (yesterday) I have had
no special sense of anything going on either in me or
about my script. I was in places very familiar to me,
both Zermatt and Saas-Grund being old friends. . . .
Vermala is not a place with any special associations, and
I really went there for no special reason, except that
when my friend, , left me I wanted to be
somewhere, and Vermala was a good place for the few
days that I meant to stay on.
544 J. G. Pidclington. [part
But the moment I got there, I felt—as Mrs. W[illett]
says when she spots a quotation—that '
this was it,' and
the impression grew and grew till it left the feeling I have
described,—or tried to describe—I don't know how to put
it, but I send this, broken as it is,—so that if I am
wrecked in a fog on the way home, you may know that
'
they '
have been satisfied with me somehow !
I am not sure that I shall write any more script for
the present, as one part of the sensation is that something
is finished (and the something may be my power of writing
automatically !), but I shall try again presently, after I am
home again, and of course at once if I have any impulse
> • . 9
There is a subsequent reference in Mrs. Verrall's script
of Aug. 22, 1914, to her experience at Vermala, which
discloses what the incident was to which M. V. 632 makes
obscure allusion :
M. V. 637 [Aug. 22, 1914).
Pallida mors but remember the permanent . . . The
pulsation of Death that comes to all is only one
aspect of the universal— No you can't get it aequo
pulsat pede and for the equality it is worth paying a
price—
But now I want you to remember and keep a firm
grasp of the peace that came in the Alps remember
what I said then The afterglow has a real significance
and well keep this next for yourself
it was not for nothing that you and the German
mother and the French girl looked at the glow to-
gether on the great peak.
I have set my bow in the clouds.
It will be remembered that Mrs. Verrall in her letter
about her Vermala scripts spoke of her having for a long
time "felt that '
they '
^ wanted " her "to go to the
^ By '
they '
Mrs. Verrall meant, of coiirse, the communicators. But
it should not be understood that she had a fixed and firm belief in
the reality of her '
communicators,' for her feeling on the subject
wavered constantly. When she wrote of '
them '
and '
they,' she
always put the words between inverted commas.
LXXXVII.] Covfifarison of Scripts. 545
Alps." Evidence of the existence of this feehng is to be
found in the following scripts :
M. V. 608 (May 6, 1914).
Out of the mountains whence cometh help. Re-
member that—a quite definite piece of help ought to
come when next you are above the plains And
Jaman takes the sunset . . .
M. V. 613 (3Iay 18, 1914).
. . . There is a special message to be given you in
the Alps . . .
31. V. 614 {3iay 19, 1914).
. . . Remember the promise for the mountains . . .
M. V. 622 {J^me 26, 1914. At Vermala.).
. . . Write now for a few days, and not only in a
serene sky and setting—storm has its function, too,
and you may take the message better then.
And the evening & the morning were the thud
day— And there was light
To return now to M. V. 632 of Aug. 4, 1914, written
when Mrs. Verrall was home again at Cambridge. This
script begins by saying that there is a connexion between
" the message in the mountains whence came help " and
Mrs. Verrall's " present feeling." It may be confidently
assumed that her " present feeling " was about the war,
and the then inevitable extension of it to this country.
It goes on to allude, obscurely—but, I think, unmistake-
ably—to the occasion when she, the German mother, and
the French girl '
lifted up their eyes to the hills '
and
'
watched the afterglow together on the great peak. The
script ends with references to the City of God, and to
i
Athens the City of the violet and olive crown, and with a
'i
clear reference back to Mrs. Verrall's script of April 29,
.i 1907 (M. V. 171), which opens with a quotation from the
poem to Victor Hugo in which Tennyson looks forward
to " that diviner day " when
I
" England, France, all man to be
WiU make one people."
Before quoting the last occurrence of " the violet
I
546 J. G. Piddington. [part
crown " in Mrs. Verrall's script, I would remind the
reader of two things :
(a) that a reference to " the message in the Alps " is
immediately followed in M. V. 622 by one to the first
and third days of Creation ;
(6) that in King 157 of April 17, 1914, a script never
seen by Mrs. Verrall, " The violet crown " is immediately
followed by " the seven hills," i.e. the seven hills of Rome.
The last reference in Mrs. Verrall's script to the City
of the Violet Crown is as follows :
M. V. 674 {February 4, 1915).
Glory to God in the highest and on Earth Peace
on earth Peace
—
A new Heaven and a new earth
And he saw that it was good.
I have tried before to represent the days of Creation
—the Creation of a new heaven and a new earth.
Till I have built Jerusalem In England's green &
pleasant land. [Blake, Preface to Milton.']
There is still much building to be done—building
without hands—for the city that will be an abiding
City the true Eternal City crowned with the olive
leaf Fortress and fostress of sons born free ^ Com-
bine those ideas— The Roman Imperial City and
the free Athens
—
Xiirapai 'A6?p'aL [Pindar, Fragment 76.] ^
^ Swinbiime, Erectheus. Cf. M. V. 148, 171, above. This quotation
from Swinburne's Chorus in praise of Athens is probably meant to form
a link with the context of the quotation made in M. V. 171 from
Gal. iv. 26, where St. Paul contrasts the children of the Old Dispensa-
tion, " children of the bond-woman," with the children of the New
Dispensation who are " sons bom free."
^ For the Greek lines see above, p. .539. Sir J. E. Sandys thus
translates them :
" Oh ! the gleaming, and the violet-crowned, and the sung in story
;
the bulwark of Hellas, famotis Athens, city divine !
"
Some suppose that the epithet " violet-crowned " alludes to the extra-
ordinary purple glow on Hymettus at sunset. Cf. accordingly " Her-
mettus [sic], the violet crown " in King 293 above. This view as to
the source of the epithet is not favoured by most scholars ; but anyone
who has seen Athens transfigured by this purple glow must, I fancy,
find it hard to believe that it did not influence the choice of epithet.
Lxxxvn.] Comparisoyi of Scripts. 547
You have partly seen the meaning of the Roman
allusions but the Greek have escaped you I think
—
Put them together
—
The city of the violet & olive crown . . .
Here, as in King 157, we get the union of Athens and
Rome ; and this union is in turn connected with the
Days of Creation, with which again, as we have seen,
" the message in the Alps " is connected in M. V. 622.
For reasons already explained, this " message in the Alps
"
appears to be closely associated with the occasion when
Mrs. Verrall watched the afterglow on the great Alpine
peali m the company of a German mother and a French
girl ; and when this incident is explicitly mentioned in
M. V. 637, it is immediately followed by the comment
:
"I have set my bow in the cloiid s."
No one, I venture to think, can dispute the general
meaning of these " linked " scripts. Their language is
symbolic, it is true, but it can hardly be called cryptic.
On the day that England declares war on Germany, Mrs.
Verrall's script makes another declaration. It declares the
coming of a world-wide Peace. And other scripts—some
earlier, some later—assert that the Great War is but the
Chaos, " earth without form and void," out of which the
Spirit of God, moving in mysterious ways, will create a
new order of things.^
If this forecast were confined to Mrs. Verrall's scripts,
it might, perhaps, be dismissed as a fantastic dream
cleverly woven by some part of Mrs. Verrall's conscious-
ness out of threads selected from her pre-War scripts.
But, as will be seen, when I come to deal (pp. 580-598
below) with the last scripts written by Mrs. Willett and
Mrs. Salter before the outbreak of war and the first
scripts written by them after its outbreak, their scripts,
too, share the view that the War is the prologue—not to
a catastrophe, nor to a mere victory over enemies, nor
to a Peace of exhaustion, but—to the healing of nations.
1 See Ruskin, Modern Painters, " Peace," § 19, quoted under " Had
Zimri peace ? " on pp. 524-525 above.
548 J. G. Piddington. [part
This consensus of prophecy—and Mrs. King's scripts
share in it—cannot be so Ughtly explained away.
The symbolism employed in these " Violet Crown
"
scripts was probably suggested by the closing passage of
Gilbert Murray's Introductory Essay to his Euripides :
The old devotion to Fifth Century Athens, to that
Princess of Cities, who had so fearfully fallen and dragged
her lovers through such blood-stained dust, lived on with
a kind of fascination as a symbol in the minds of these
deeply individual philosophers of later Hellenism and Early
Christianity. But it was no longer a city on earth that
they sought, not one to be served by military conquests,
nor efficient police, nor taxes and public education. It
was '
the one great city in which all are free,' or it was
the city of Man's Soul. '
The poet has said,' wites a
late Stoic, who had a pretty large concrete city of his
own to look after, '
The poet has said : O Beloved City
of Cecrops : canst thou not say ; O Beloved City of
God ?
'
But though this passage may have supplied the imagery
of the scripts, the application of the imagery is quite
different, as M. V. 674 alone is sufficient to show. " It
was no longer a city on earth that they sought," says
Gilbert Murray of the philosophers of later, Hellenism ;
" here have we no continuing city," said the author of
the Epistle to the Hebrews, " but we seek one to come."
The communicators, on the contrary, affirm the approach-
ing realisation of the hopes expressed in the last Chorus
of Shelley's Hellas (quoted more than once in the
scripts ^) :
" The world's great age begins anew.
The golden years return,
iln W. 326, of Feb. 28, 1914, and H. V. 536 of Jan. 14, 1920. See
also H. V. 191, of Dec. 4, 1909, where " in the days of Saturn. the
golden age Satumia regna iam redibunt " is probably a composite
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 549
The earth doth like a snake renew
Her winter weeds outworn . . .
Another Athens shall arise,
And to remoter time
Bequeath, like sunset to the skies.
The splendour of its prime." ^
That is the constant theme of the scripts ;
the estab-
Ushment " here on earth " of a universal, abiding, " con-
crete city " : home of Freedom and Clemency, as was
Athens ; home of Law and Order, as was Rome.
reference to Shelley's Hellas and to Vergil's Messianic Eclogue. " Hellas
bright Hellas " in K. 443, of Sept. 1, 1917, and " Hellas divinely clear
"
in King 305, of Sept. 4, 1915, are probably also attempts at the second
verse of Shelley's Chorus. •
1
See my remarks at the end of this paper (pp. 603 below) on the
far greater improbabiUty of the fulfilment of Utopian prophecies than
of the fvdfihnent of prophecies of wars. These remarks were written in
ignorance, or at any rate in complete forgetfulness, of Shelley's own
note on the Chorus in Hellas, which runs thus :
" The final chorus is indistinct and obscure as the event of the
living drama whose arrival it foretells.
" Prophecies of wars, and rumours of wars, etc., may safely be made
by poet or prophet in any age ; but to anticipate, however darkly, a
period of regeneration and happiness, is a more hazardous exercise of
the faculty which bards possess or feign. It will remind the reader,
'
magno nec proximvis intervallo,' of Isaiah and Virgil, whose ardent
spirits saw the possible and perhaps approaching state of society in
which '
the lion shall lie down with the lamb.' and '
omnis feret omnia
tellus ' [Vergil, Ed. iv. 39]. Let these great names be my authority
and excuse."
550 J. G. Piddington. [part
" THE MUSIC OF THE SPHERES."
See King 72.
This creation of a new order out of chaos is represented
in different ways in the scripts : sometimes in Bibhcal
language ; sometimes by imagery drawn from Norse
mythology (see e.g. " a new Asgard " in King 31 and 38) ;
and sometimes in terms borrowed from classical writers or
from English poets. Thus in King 72 occurs " the music
of the spheres," in King 118 "the stars sang together,"
and in King 185 " the Miltonic metaphor Blest pair of
Sirens." With these phrases compare the following extract
from a King script written after the outbreak of war :
King 210 {Oct. 27, 1914).
. . . Mercy & justice shall prevail The music of
the spheres wHl be heard Far, far it comes, faintly
at first then swelling into majestic [here a word is
apparently omitted] summoning the souls of men.
Prepare ye the way Lift up the hearts lift them to
the dawn wh. is even now showing beyond the hUls
But Mrs. King is not alone in using this simile of the
Music of the Spheres. It occurs in the scripts of other
autoniatists as well : for instance in the following H. V.
scripts, where it is combined with another simile bearing
the same significance, namely the return of the Golden Age :
H. V. 191 {Dec. 4, 1909).
... in the days of Saturn—the golden age Saturnia
regna iam redibunt something like that—look for the
reference— I wish I could make things clearer . . .
visions of light—this is confused wings saffron
coloured—the angelic hosts. Blest pair of Sirens that
is nearer to the thought
H. V. 298 {Jan. 12, 1913).
The slow unyielding sequence of the years aeon
unto aeon the ages of man—the golden age . ^ . lo
LXXXVII.] Com'parison of Scripts. 551
the bright seraphim that belongs though you may not
think so . . .
H. V. 360 {Atig. 29, 1914).
. . . astraea reddux [sic]—per ardua sors futura
manet—[gloria] in excelsis . . .
H. V. 481 {Jmie 16, 1916).
Blest pau' of sirens—heavenly harmonies—something
about return—reddux [sic] . . .
" The golden age Saturnia regna iam redibunt " in
H. V. 191, " astraea reddux " in H. V. 360, and " some-
thing about return—reddux " in H. V. 481 are all allusions
to Vergil's Fourth Eclogue. This Eclogue, which has been
called Vergil's Messianic Eclogue because of ' its many
resemblances to Messianic passages in the Old Testament,
foretells the renewal of the Golden Age and the advent of
a reign of universal peace :
Ultima Cumaei venit iam carmrnis aetas :
Magnus ab integTO saeclorum nascitutr ordo.
Jam redit et Virgo, redeunt Saturnia regna.
(Ed. iv., 4-6.)
Now is come the last age of the Cumaean prophecy
:
the great cycle of j)eriods is born anew.^ Now returns
the Maid, returns the reign of Saturn.
(Mackail's Translation.)
" The Maid " (Virgo) is Astraea, goddess of -Justice, who
fled from earth in the age of bronze. Particular attention
should be paid to the appearance of " Astraea reddux
"
in H. V. 360.^ for this was the first script written by
^ This, of course, is the source of Shelley's :
" The world's great age
begins anew."
- The misspelling " reddux " for " redux "is a strange one for a
classical scholar like Mrs. Salter to make. It has at any rate this
advantage, that when it occurs a second time in H. V. 481 it emphasises
the reference back to H. V. 360.
The phrase " Astraea redux " is taken from the title of Dryden's
poem On the Happy Restoration and Return of His Sacred Majesty
Charles II., 1660. Dryden prefixed as a motto to this poem the line
frona Vergil's Foui-th Eclogue :
-'
Jam redit et Virgo, redeunt Saturnia regna."
231
552 J. G. Piddington. [part
Mrs. Salter after the outbreak of war (see pp. 595-596
below). It is there combined with " in excelsis," which
unquestionably refers back to
gloria in excelsis on earth peace goodwill towards men
in H. V. 168 of May 11, 1909.
"Blest pair of Sirens" in H. V. 191 and 481, and " lo
the bright Seraphim " in H. V. 298 are quotations from
Milton's At a Solemn Musick :
Blest pair of Sirens, pledges of heaven's joy,
Sphere-born harmonious sisters, Voice and Verse,
Wed your divine sounds . . .
And to our high-raised phantasy present
Tliat undisturbed song of pure concent.
Aye sung before the sapphire-coloui''d throne
To Him that sits thereon.
With saintly shout, and solemn jubUee,
Where the bright Seraphim in burning row
Their loud uplifted angel-trumpets blow
That we on earth with undiscording voice /
May rightly answer that melodious noise ;
As once we did, till disproportion'd sin
Jarr'd against nature's chime, and with harsh din
Brolie the fair music that aU creatures made
To their great Lord, whose love their motion sway'd
In perfect diapason, whUst they stood
In first obedience, and their state of good.
O may we soon again renew that song,
And keep in tune with Heav'n ...
Just as in Vergil's Fourth Eclogue it is the return, and
not the coming for the first time of the age of gold that
is foretold, so here Milton prays not for the first advent
on earth of the heavenly harmony (the Music of the
Spheres) but for its return. The analogy, no doubt, helped
to facilitate the combination in the scripts of " Astraea
redux " with "Blest pair of Sirens." With the idea
expressed in Milton's poem that at the Creation of the
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 553
world the " melodious noise " was audible by earthly
ears and remained audible till the Fall of Man, compare
King 118 :
the sons of the morning—the stars sang together Be
joyful aU ye lands,
where the allusion is to Job xxxvlii. 4, 6, and 7 :
Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the
earth 1 declare, if thou hast understanduig . . . Where-
upon are the foundations thereof fastened ? or who laid
the corner-stone thereof ? When the morning-stars sang
together, and aU the sons of God shouted for joy ?
" Be joyful all ye lands,"' which follows the reference to
the Job passage, is from Psalm c, and is important
because its context introduces the topic of " Mercy and
truth," verse 4 being :
Tor the Lord is gracious, his mercy is everlasting ;
and
his truth endureth from generation to generation.
Cf. accordingly King 164 :
Oh be joyful all ye lands—the troubled times . . .
Mercv & truth.
There is another quotation in the scripts from this short
Psalm of only 4 verses, and it occurs in a passage the
immediate context of which there has already been occasion
to discuss in connexion with the topic of " Behemoth and
Leviathan "
(pp. 510-513 above). Thus :
W. 281 {Feb. 16, 1912).
. . . He hath made us and not we ourselves all
thmgs in heaven and earth and beneath thou great
Leviathan not Jonah Thou great Leviathan men's
hearts falling them for fear but the waves sank like
a little chUd to sleep the angry billow ceased to
leap At thy wQl . . .
" He hath made us," etc., is from verse 2 of Psalm c. :
0 be joyful m the Lord, aU ye lands : serve the Lord
with gladness, and come before his presence with a song.
554 J. G. Picldington. [part
Be ye sure that the Lord he is God ; it is he that hath
made us, and not we ourselves : we are his people, and the
sheep of his pasture.
So it will be seen that while King scripts connect this
Psalm with the stars singing together at the creation of
the world and with " the troubled times," Willett 281
connects it with the " Behemoth and Leviathan " topic,
with " men's hearts failing them for fear " and with the
Calming of the Storm.
" VENGEANCE IS MINE " AND ASSOCIATED TOPICS.
In King 202, written in the course of the afternoon of
July 27, 1914, the words " Vengeance is mine saith the
Lord I wall repay " occur in the following context :
Peace had Zimri peace who slew his master ? . . .
Great trial & tribulation but in the end peace & lights-
How are the mighty fallen & the proud brought low . . .
Vengeance is mine saith the Lord I will repay.
By the afternoon of July 27, 1914, though War was not
yet certain, it was probable ; and consequently it might
be thought that Mrs. King's own imagination will afford
a sufficient explanation of this script. So I think it
might, if it stood alone ; but if it be considered in con-
junction with phrases occurring in nearly contemporaneous
Kang scripts, and if these again be compared with the
contexts of identical or similar phrases in the scripts of
other automatists, so simple an explanation will not,
I fancy, commend itself to most minds.
For the purpose of this comparison I will begin by
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 555
putting together a few extracts from four King scripts
written between July 27 and August 2, 1914 :
King 202 {July 27 , 1914).
. . . How are the mighty fallen [2 Sam. i. 25, 27 :
" How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the
battle ! . . . How are the mighty fallen, and the
weapons of war perished ! "] . . . Vengeance is mine
saith the Lord I wDl repay {Romans xii. 19, where
St Paul is quotmg from Deut. xxxii. 35 : "To me
belongeth vengeance, and recompense ; their foot shall
slide in due time : for the day of their calamity is at
hand, and the things that shall come upon them
make haste."] . . .
King 204 {July 29, 1914).
Mercy—mercy & truth [Psalm Ixxxv. 10 :
" Mercy
and truth are met together ;
righteousness and peace
have kissed each other."]
King 206 {July 31, 1914).
Put on the armour of light—buckle on the shield
{Romans xiii. 12 ; and Ephes. vi. 11, 16 :
" Put
on the whole armour of God . . . Above all, taking
the shield of faith."]
King 207 {August 2, 1914).
The potter's vessel [Psabn ii. 1, 9 :
" Why do the
heathen so furiously rage together ? . . . Thou shalt
. . . break them in pieces like a potter's vessel."] . . .
These four scripts, then, either explicitly contain, or
else imply, the following themes :
A " How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the
battle ! . . . and the weapons of war perished !
"
;
B " Vengeance is mine ; I will repay, saith the Lord "
;
C " Mercy and truth are met together ;
righteousness
and peace have kissed each other "
;
D " Let us put on the armour of light," and " Put on
the whole armour of God . . . Above all taking the
shield of faith " ; and
E " Why do the heathen so furiously rage together ?
. . . Thou shalt . . . break them in pieces like a potterV.
vessel."
656 J. G. Piddington. [part
Let us start by comparing with Theme E a connected
group of extracts from Mrs. Verrall's scripts :
M. V. 30951 {January 13, 1902).
Nephelecoccygua [sic] and other such . . . Three
Latin words . . . would give the clue. Quid fre-
muerunt gentes ? gentes seems right—gens togata
rapit. Non possumus plurima hodie [" We can do no
more to-day "] . . .
M. V. 3097 {January 29, 1902).
. . . gentile no gentes gens togata vocat,
Romam— Romanam condere gentem Gens togata
manet . . .
M. V. 3099 {February 3, 1902).
. . . Gennata no Gens nata togae those are the
three words [cf. M. V. 3095]—there are more clypeum
rapit, and somethmg else. Duo rapit pro toga,
gladium chpeumque re-
But the other words are the test. Gens nata togae.
In inverted commas single thus
'
Gens nata togae
'
In ink on a little piece of white paper that has
been folded in the middle
Chpeum recondit et ensem
that is better but it is not so important. Keep
this it will be wanted
—
F W H Myers
M. V. 512 {February 3, 1913).
Nej)helecoccygia and other Utopias or lost Atlan-
tides—far m the Western seas ...
Something about a Sargasso sea . . .
I don't think you have understood. But never
mind—more wiU come—write tomorrow.
M. V. 513 {February 4, 1913).
Oranges and lemons—and the rhyme is St. Clemens
—San Clemente with the mosaics No wait—you
have it wrong
—
Clementia et misericordia ...
1 Mrs, Verrall's Scripts between March 5, 1901 (when they began) and
Dec. 30, 1904, are numbered 3000 to 3307; those between Jan. 4, 1905,
and June 24, 1916 (when they ended), are numbered 1 to 739.
Lxxxvii.] Comparison of Scripts.
" Nephelecoccygia" occurs in M. V. 3095 and 512 only.
It means " Cloud-Cnckoo-City," and is the name given by
Aristophanes in the Birds to the City built by birds in
mid-air. Sir Richard Jebb, in his article on Aristophanes
in the Enc. Brit., writes as follows :
Some have found in the Birds a complete historical
allegory of the Sicilian expedition; others, a general satire
on the prevalence at Athens of headstrong caprice over law
and order ;
others, merely an aspiration towards a new and
purified Athens—a dream to which the poet had turned
from his hope for a revival of the Athens of the past.
From M. V. 512 it is absolutely clear that it is the
third of these views that is taken in the scripts ;
and that
Nephelecoccygia stands for "a new and purified Athens."
" Quid fremuenmt gentes 1
" is the Vulgate version of
Psalm ii. 1 :
" Why do the heathen so furiously rage
together ?
" except that quid is used instead of the
Vulgate's quare.
" Gens togata;' " the race that wears the toga," means
the Romans. The toga was the national garb of the
Roman citizen. The word is used by classical writers as
a symbol of Peace, as the weU-known saying " Cedant
arma togae " sufficiently shows. "The Roman toga" in
King 182, no doubt, bears the same meaning as " gens
togata."
Romanam condere gentem," "to found the Roman
race," is part of a famous hne in Vergil's Aeneid :
" Tantae mohs erat Romanam condere gentem,"
{Aen. i. 33)
which means " So hard a matter was it to found the
Roman race." This line Myers imitated in his Promise of
Immortality :
" So hard a matter was the birth of Man."
He again made use of it in a passage of his Presidential
Address to this Society; and to this passage it is clear
that M. V. 3095, 3097, and 512, when read together, allude :
Out of the long Stone Age our race is awakening into
consciousness of itself. We stand in the dawn of history.
558 J. G. Piddington. [part
Behind us lies a vast and unrecorded waste—the mighty
struggle hmnanam condere gentem. Since the times of that
ignorance ^ we have not yet gone far ; a few thousand
years, a few hundred thinkers, have barely started the
human mind upon the great aeons of its onward way.
It is not yet the hour to sit down in our studies to eke
out Tradition with Intuition . . . The traditions, the
intuitions of our race are themselves in their infancy ;
and before we abandon ourselves to brooding over them
let us at least first try the upshot of a systematic search
for actual facts. For what should hinder ? If our
enquiry lead us first through a jungle of fraud and folly,
need that alarm us "?
As well might Columbus have
yielded to the sailors' panic, when he was entangled in the
Sargasso sea.^
In the original Tantae ynoUs erat Romanam condere
gentem is a comment on the hardships imposed by Juno's
jealousy and anger on Aeneas and his followers during
their prolonged wanderings in search of their destined
home in Italy.
The combination in M. V. 3097 of " Romanam condere
gentem " with " gens togata " points certainly in my
opinion to another famous line ^ in the Aeneid :
Quin aspera Juno,
Quae mare nunc terrasque metu caelumque fatigat,
Consilia in melius referet, mecumque fovebit
Romanos, rerum dominos, gentemque togatam.
(Aen. i. 279-282.)
These lines form part of Jupiter's consoling reply to
Venus, when alarmed by the storm which Juno had
1 The allusion is to Acts xvii. 30, 31 :
" And the times of this ignor-
ance God winked at ; but now commandetli all men everywhere to
repent : Because he hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge
the world in righteousness."
2 Cf. also Myers, The Reneival of Youth, 11. 107-158. In the passage
in his Presidential Address Myers is to a large extent only repeating in
prose what he had already said here in verse.
3 Macrobius says that Vergil borrowed the line from an earlier poet ;
and Suetonius records an occasion on which Augustus quoted it.
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 559
raised against Aeneas' fleet, ^ she implores him to maintain
his decree that the Trojans should become the masters of
the world. Jupiter begins his reply with a general
assurance
Parce metu, Cytherea, manent inmota tuorum
Fata tibi,
(with which compare " Gens togata manet " in M. V.
3097), and then later repeats his assurance more specifi-
cally, in the lines quoted above, with the added promise
of Juno's eventual benevolence :
Nay, harsh Juno, who in her fear now troubles earth
and sea and sky, shall change to better counsels, and
with me shall cherish the lords of the vmrld, the goivned
race of Rome. (Mackail's Translation.)
" Clipeum recondit el ensem " Mrs. Verrall herself trans-
lated " He puts away the shield and sword." " Ensem "
and " gladium " (both words are used in M. V. 3099)
mean exactly the same thing, and " recondere gladium in
vagina," or "in vaginam," is classical Latin for " to put
up a sword again into the sheath " ; but as one cannot
speak of " sheathing a shield," some more general term
like "puts away" must be used to render "recondit."
The end of M. V. 512 implies that the next day's
script will carry on the subject. Since the virtue on
which the Athenians specially, and with justice, prided
themselves was Clemency (see pp. 532, 549 above), there
is no difficulty in understanding how M. V. 513 carries
on the subject of M. V. 512, for M. V. 513 alludes to
" Clementia et misericordia " (Clemency and Pity), while
M. V. 512 had referred to a " new and purified Athens
"
by means of the word " Nephelecocyggia."
Observe that M. V. 3095, 3097, and 3099 give us this
New Athens in combination with Roman Law and Order,
the Parents of Peace ; for that is what is meant by ge^is
togata and gens nata logae (a race destined by nature to a
peaceful career), as well as by clipeum recondit et ensem.
These five scripts of Mrs. Verrall's combine, in fact,
Athenian Clemency with the Pax Romana.
1 For other references to this storm see pp. 512, 513, 558, 559, 571.
560 J. G. Piddington. [part
Next Jet us compare Theme E with a script of Mrs.
Salter's, ana with a group of other scripts of hers
associated therewith :
H. V. 16 (November 20, 1906).
. . . ubi ius ubi reipublicae salus . . . why do the
heathen so furiously rage Colomel Calomel and
tansy . . .
" Ubi ius ubi reipublicae salus " means " Where is
Justice ? where is the safety of the State ?
"
" Tansy " is an aromatic herb, often, I believe, used in
old medical prescriptions. For " Calomel " see next
extract.
H. V. 158 [March 9, 1909).
. . . Calomel Can you not understand what that
means 1 hyssop and balm repentance and forgive-
ness . . .
This extract gives the clue to the meaning of the
mysterious " Calomel and tansy " of H. V. 16. " Calo-
mel " is an approach to the idea of a purge, whence
transition can be made to " Purge me with hyssop, and
I shall be clean : wash me, and I shall be whiter than
snow " {Psalm li. 7).
H. V. 172 {July 22, 1909).
. . . scarlet and hyssop repentance let not the
sun go down upon jo\xr wrath Justice holds the
scales . . . another day and other hopes be not
dismayed ...
" Scarlet and hyssop repentance " is a combined allusion
to Psalm li. 7, and to Isaiah i. 16, 18 :
Wash you, make you clean ;
put away the evil of your
doings from before mine eyes ; cease to do evil . . .
Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord
:
Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white
as snow ;
though they be red lilie crimson, they shall be
as wool.
Accordingly compare the following script :
H. V. 72 {February 18, 1908).
. . . though their skms [sic] be as scarlet yet shall
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 561
they be white as snow thus spake the prophet Isaiah
The reference to Isaiah was important,
now describe the scene
A winding valley amid rocky peaks. A green strip
where the river flows and groups of darkleaved trees chest-
nuts I think and at the bottom a town with white
houses and many towers nestling close together and
the rude invader from the north shall destroy them
coming down the pass with many men and horses and
the tread of armed men shall echo in the hills around . . .
This script must be read in connexion with another
.. group of scripts referred to elsewhere (see pp. 519-523
* above and pp. 588-589 below). Here it will suffice to say
that the quotation from Isaiah is followed by one of
jj
several descriptions to be found in the scripts of Barbaric
Invasions, of which the note is Vae Victis ! Woe to the
Vanquished ! The topic of Barbaric Invasions I take to
belong to the same group of ideas as is represented by
" Why do the heathen so furiously rage together ?
"
Let us now go back to H. V. 172, where "scarlet and
hyssop repentance " is followed by " let not the sun go
down upon your wrath.'' This quotation from Ephesians,
iv. 26 occurs in the following context
:
That ye put off . . . the old man. . . . And be renewed
in the spirit of your mind ; And that ye put on the new
man, which after God is created in righteousness and true
holiness. Wherefore puttmg away lying, speak every man
truth with his neighbour : for we are members one of
another. Be ye angry, and sin not ; let not the sun go
doijon upon your wrath : Neither give place to the devil.
. . . Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour
and evil-speaking, be put away from you, with all malice :
And be ye kind to one another, forgiving one another.
(Ephes. iv. 22-32.)
" Let not the sun go down," etc., occurs twice again in
pre-War scripts, and once in a script written during the
War. Thus :
Table-Tilting by Mrs. Salter and Miss Noel {Dec. 15, 1910).
... a voice of wrath O let not the sun go down
562 J. G. Picldington. [part
upon your wrath . . . sympathy for the fallen is at
once the strength and the weakness of civiUsed men
the cross by the wayside
H. V. 354 {May 11, 1914).
. . . Something about the Star of Peace returns . . .
the setting sun—another day—let not the sun go down
upon your wath—fathers «fc sons to the fourth
generation
Note that here " another day,'' as well as the quotation
from E2)hes. iv., is repeated from H. V. 172, and that
both are combined with " the star of peace returns " from
Campbell's Ye Mariners of England :
The meteor flag of England
Shall yet terrific burn ;
Till danger's troubled night depart
And the star of peace return.
" Fathers & sons to the fourth generation " is an allusion
to the Second Commandment :
for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the
iniquity of the fathers upon tlie children imto the third
and fourth generation of them that hate me ; And showing
mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my
commandments.
M. V. 672 (January 25, 1915).
... In the lost battle—borne down by the flying
[Scott, Marmion.]— How are the mighty fallen . . .
Let not the sun go down upon your wrath . . .
Observe that " Let not the sun go down," etc., which
elsewhere is combined with
" scarlet and hyssop repentance,"
"Justice holds the scales,"
" the Star of Peace returns," and
the Vengeance and Mercy of God,
is here combined with Theme A, " How are the mighty
fallen !
" ; and that Theme A is combined in the first
of the four King scripts under discussion with " Vengeance
is mine saith the Lord I will repay," i.e. with Theme B.
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 563
" Hoiv are the mighty fallen " (Theme A) is from David's
Lament over Saxil, from which comes also " Tell it not in
Gath, publish it not in the streets of Askelon " (2 Sa7n. i.
20, 25). Hence compare the following script of Mrs.
Verrall's :
M. V. 537 {July 23, 1913).
. . . Astraea redux redeunt Saturnia regna . . . and
there should be an examination of astronomical points
—' The sun in Libra '
—that has a meaning here
—
Tell it not in Gath, Proclaim it not
in the streets of Ascalon
Ascalon—salo—no scalone no but something like
that scales is more like—the balance and the scales
Here " Tell it not in Gath,^' etc., from the Lament over
Saul, is combined with the return of the Golden Age
{redeunt Saturnia regna), and with the return of Astraea.
Astraea, Justice, is the constellation Virgo
(Jam redit et Virgo, redeunt Saturnia regna),
and she is here associated with Libra, the Sign of the
Zodiac that follows Virgo. In H. V. 172, as we have
seen, and elsewhere in the scripts. Justice, i.e. Virgo,
whose proper emblem is a spike of corn, is given the
emblem of Libra
:
" Justice holds the scales."
This phrase is, I believe, an attempt at a line in Pope's
Messiah, A Sacred Eclogue. In Imitation of Virgil's
Pollio :
1
All crimes shall cease, and ancient fraud shall fail
;
Returning Justice lift aloft her scale ;
Peace o'er the world her olive wand extend,
And white-rob'd Innocence from Heaven descend.
1 By Vergil's " Pollio," the Fourth or so-called " Messianic " Eclogue
is meant. It is from this Eclogue that the words
" Jam redit et Virgo, redeunt Saturnia regna
"
come.
Pope, as he himself explains, imitated, as did Shelley in the last
Chorus of Hellas, not only Vergil but Isaiah.
564 J. 0. Piddington. [PAET
For the subject of " Astraea redux," see p. 551 above
and pp. 588, 595 below.
If the reader will now turn bacli to the Table-Tilting
of December 15, 1910, he will see that " let not the sun
go down," etc., was there followed by
" the cross by the wayside.'"
The topic of the Wayside Cross is very clearly con-
nected with Theme B, " Vengeance is mine," as the
following extracts from Mrs. Salter's scripts show :
H. V. 365 {October 26, 1914).
. . . (i fxaTep I'v^, Vengeance, saith the Lord . . .
a pilgrim by the way—the wayside cross—the pilgrim's
way . . .
//. V. 509 {June 19, 1917).
... he said to me Oh Maeldune . . . the pilgrim's
way ...
//. V. 548 {December 7, 1921).
. . . He said to me — this purpose of
thine Tennyson The towers & a hermit The
armour of God . . .
H. V. 435 {Jidy 22, 1915).
. . . the eagle & the lUy—the carven flowers . . .
'^Q fxfxrep vl)^ ("0 Mother Night ") is from the Eumenides
of Aeschylus (11. 321-322 ; see also 11. 745 and 845). It
comes from the Chorus in which the Erinyes invoke their
Mother, Night, to do vengeance on the guilty. There are
a great many references in the scripts to this play of
Aeschylus', and they all, I believe, belong to the topic of
Vengeance and Mercy. I have already (see pp. 531-532
above) dealt with this subject at length, and so need here
say no more than that the Eumenides references stand for
the supersession of the Old Dispensation of Vengeance by
the New Dispensation of Mercy : the Erinyes, whose code
is "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth "—the
code of Shylock—being finally won over by the " younger,
kindlier Gods " to a code which tempers Justice with
Mercy. The play is a eulogy of the Clemency of Athens.
" The jnlgrirn's way," which in H. V. 365 is immediately
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 565
preceded by " the ivayside cross," in H. V. 509 follows
" he said to me Oh Maeldune " ; and these last words
reappear in H. V. 548 in the form
He said to me this purpose of thine
Tennyson.
H. V. 548 was not written automatically, but was
spoken by Mrs. Salter when in trance. The recorder, Mr.
Salter, failing to catch some of the words spoken repre-
sented them by dashes. But in spite of the missing words
the allusion is absolutely certain. It is to Tennyson's
The Voyage of Maeldune, of which the theme is an Irish
blood-feud. I wiU summarise or quote the essential parts
of the poem :
Maeldune's father had been killed by a man the day
before Maeldune himself had been born, and to escape
vengeance the man had fled to "an isle in the ocean."
When Maeldune arrives at manhood, he sets forth mth a
band of faithful followers to track down and take ven-
geance on his father's murderer :
And we came to the isle in the ocean, and there on the shore
was he.
But a sudden blast blew us out and away thro' a boundless
sea.
Maeldune and his men continue the pursuit, tdl at
length after many a strange adventure they come to the
Isle of the Double Towers :
And we came in an evil time to the Isle of the Double Towers,
One was of smooth-cut stone, one carved all over with flowers,
But an earthquake always moved m the hollows under the
dells,
And they shock'd on each other and butted each other with
clashing of bells.
And the daws flew out of the Towers and jangled and wrangled
in vain.
And the clash and the boom of the beUs rang into the heart
and the brain,
TiU the passion of battle was on us, and aU took sides with
the Towers,
566 J. G. Piddington. [part
There were some for the clean-cut stone, there were more for
the carven flowers,
And the Avrathful thunder of God peal'd over us all the day,
For the one half slew the other, and after we sail'd away.
And we came to the Isle of a Saint who had sail'd with St.
Brendan of yore,
He had lived ever since on the Isle and his winters were fifteen
score,
And his voice was low as from other worlds, and his eyes were
sweet,
And his white hair sank to his heels and his white beard sank
to his feet.
And he spake to me, '
0 Maeldune, let be this purpose of
thme !
Remember the words of the Lord when he told us " Vengeance
is mine !
"
His fathers have slain thy fathers in war or in single strife.
Thy fathers have slain his fathers, each taken a life for a life,
Thy father had slain his father, how long shaU the murder last?
Go back to the Isle of Finn and suffer the Past to be Past.'
And we kiss'd the fringe of his beard and we pray'd as we
heard him pray,
And the Holy man he assoil'd us, and sadly we sail'd away.
And we came to the Isle we were blown from, and there on
the shore was he.
The man that had slain my father. I saw him and let him be.
O weary was I of the travel, the trouble, the strife and the
sin.
When I landed again, with a tithe of my men, on the Isle of
Finn.
In H. V. 548 the reference to the scene between Mael-
dune and the aged Saint is immediately followed by
" The armour of God,'' which corresponds with Theme D
of the four King scripts ; and all the Maeldune references
correspond, of course, with Theme B "Vengeance is mine!"
In H. V. 435 "the carven flowers " refers to
the Isle of the Double Towers,
One was of smooth-cut stone, one carved all over with flowers,
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 567
and to
There were some for the clean-cut stone, there were more for
the carven floivers}-
In H. V. 435 " the carven flowers " is immediately pre-
ceded by " the eagle S the lily." " The eagle & the
lily " is a reference to a passage in Dante's Paradiso,^
of which I will quote Edmund G. Gardner's summary
:
^ It must not be supposed that " the carven flowers " of H. V. 435
is a merely accidental coincidence with the words in the poem. It is
an absolutely certain reference to them, as is shown by three earlier
references in Mrs. Salter's scripts of March 18, 24, and 31, 1914—all
pre-War scripts, be it noted.
" He said [sic, in error for " spake "] to me Oh Maeldime " occurs
for the first time in Mrs. Salter's script on April 9, 1913. It will be
seen, then, that it was not the War that suggested the " Vengeance is
mine " passage in The Voyage of Maeldime to the automatist.
The first reference to the poem in all the scripts is in M. V. 136, of
February 12, 1907 :
" The voyage of Maeldune faery lands forlorn."
With this compare King 166, of May 9, 1914 :
" faery lands forlorn—the bent twigs, the carven stone,"
and H. V. 508, of June 18, 1917 :
" Maeldune—that too—fairy seas."
Mrs. Salter had seen M. V. 136, and Mrs. King may have, because it
has been published in Proceedings : but though their knowledge of M. V.
136 may explain why they both connect the Maeldime poem with "faery /
lands forlorn," it does not explain why Mrs. Salter should select " the
carven flowers," and Mrs. King "the carven stone" from the Termyson
poem rather than some of the other scores of phrases in it.
^ The way in which the references to this Dante passage emerged is so
interesting that I quote them in full :
H. V. 380 {January 11, 1915).
. . . the floating beam—floating in hght—a shower of stars—& the
flight of a bird—the stretch of the wings—poised motionless
—
something about an eagle something in Dante—it is a passage in
Dante I want to get, but she does not understand & that makes it
very difficult . . .
H. V. 435 {July 22, 1915).
. . . flight—the eagle & the lily . . .
H. V. 471 {March 30, 1916).
. . . The eagle & the lily—there is a passage in literatm-e about an
eagle with a lily in its beak but she does not Imow it & we
cannot get the thing clear . . .
The mention of Dante in H. V. 380 is one of the comparatively rare
2?f
568 J. G. Piddington. [part
The Heaven of Jupiter.—The silvery white sphere of
Jupiter, the sixth heaven, is ruled by the Dominations,
the Angelic order who are '
an express image of the true
and archetypal dominion in God '
. . . Their function is
to draw all things to imitate this dominion, so that rulers
may bear true lordship in God and men may imitate this
dominion by subjection and obedience. This, then, is the
sphere of ideal government, the heaven of the planet that
effectuates justice upon Earth {Par. xvni. 115-117). The
souls of faithful and just rulers appear as golden lights,
singing and flying like celestial birds. They first form the
text Diligite iustitiam qui iudicatis terrain, '
Love justice
you that are the judges of the Earth' {Wisdorn i. 1,
Vulgate), tracmg successively the letters until they rest in
the final golden M, the initial letter of Monarchy or
Empire—the Empire under which alone can justice be
paramount on earth. Next, those higher form the head
and neck of an Eagle ; while those below first form a
hly upon the M, and then peacefully follow the higher
spirits in forming one complete imperial Eagle {Par. xviii.
100-114). The Gueh powers who foUow the standard of
the hly must thxis submit to the universal Monarchy, the
form of government ordained by God, and coming down
directly from the fountain of universal authority. In the
varied details of these three transformations the three
great doctrines of the De Monarchia are shown step by
step : the necessity of the Empire for the well-being of
the world, the Roman acquisition of the Monarchy by
right, the direct dependence of the imperial authority upon
God. (Edmund G. Gardner, Dante, pp. 130-131.)
Dante does not actually speak of "an eagle vnth a lily
in its beak," but this phrase in H. V. 471 is evidently
meant as an allusion to the spirits of the Just Rulers
who " enlily the M,"
" ingigliarsi all' emme."
cases where the communicators have named the author of an out-of-the-
way passage in hterature. Had Dante not been mentioned, the passage
might never have been identified. Even as it was, it needed a long
hunt before it was traced.
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 569
Moreover, should any doubt be felt about the identifica-
tion of the phrases in the H. V. scripts with the Dante
passage, a comparison of the extract from H. V. 380
(quoted in footnote (2) on p. 567) with Paradiso xviii. 34-36,
73-81, 97-105, and xix. 1, will probably remove it. And
that " the eagle & the lily " does mean this passage in
the Paradiso is further confirmed by a comparison of
H. V. 435 with H. V. 538 :
H. V. 435. the eagle & the lUy—^the carven flowers
[=The Voyage of Maeldune]
H. V. 508. Birds—the bird droves of God—wings beating
—birds & angels—ayyeAot— I do not think that has
been quite understood yet—partly understood but not
all— Maeldune—that too—fairy seas.
The angelic birds of H. V. 508 correspond to " the
souls of faithful and just rulers . . . singing and flying
like celestial birds " who form themselves into the text
Diligite iustitiam qui iudicatis terram.
The combination in the scripts of The Voyage of Mael-
dune with the Paradiso passage represents, then, the
tempering of Justice with Mercy, the forgiveness of
enemies, and the reign of Justice on earth.
Let us go back now to the four King scripts from
which we started, and compare them with Mrs. Salter's
" Maeldune " scripts. For the purpose of this comparison
I consider myself entitled to include the original context
of a quotation :
Four King Scripts. H. V. " Maeldune " Scripts.
Vengeance is mine, saith And he spake to me, '
0
the Lord. Maeldune, let be this
purpose of thine !
Remember the words of the
Lord when he told us
" Vengeance is mine !
" '
Mercy and truth are met Wherefore take upon you
together ;
righteousness and the whole armour of God
peace have kissed each other. . . . having your loins girt
570
Put on the armour of
light.
Thou shalt . . . break
them in pieces hke a
potter's vessel.
Be wise now therefore, 0
ye Kings : be learned, ye
that are judges of the earth
[part
with truth, and having on
the breast plate of righteous-
ness ; And your feet shod
with the preparation of peace.
The discarnate souls of
Faithful and Just Rulers,
whose function is to inspire
earthly rulers to imitate the
Divine Justice, and who,
wheeling like birds, form
themselves into the words
Diligite iustitiam qui judi-
catis terram (" Love right-
eousness ye that be judges
of the earth ").
J. G. Piddington.
The mamier in which, in this and other cases, I am
obliged for the sake of simplicity of exposition to take a
small part out of what in reality is a very complex and
extensive network of topics, isolate it, and treat it as if
it were an entire and self-contained pattern, may naturally
cause the reader to be surprised at the trouble taken to
work in the allusions to Paradiso xviii. in Mrs. Salter's
scripts. Surely, he might say, the topic of Just Govern-
ment might have been represented much more simply
than by reference to a recondite passage in Dante's
Paradiso. No doubt it might have been, if the com-
municators had wanted merely to say " Love righteousness
ye that be judges of the earth." But they may have
had other objects as well. They may, for instance, have
wan ed to suggest that the reign of Justice on earth will
not be achieved without the help of the Angelic Birds,
the Church militant of heaven :
0 milizia del ciel, . . .
adora per color che sono in terra
tutti sviati retro al malo esemplo
{Par. xviii. 124-126) ;
Lxxxvii.] Comparison of Scripts. 571
and they may have wanted to introduce the subject of
Justice on earth in such a way that it could be fitted
on to other topics. Thus, for instance, the passage in
the Paradiso appears to be fitted on to the incident in
the first Book of the Aeneid where Venus in disguise
meets her son Aeneas, who, after having been driven by
the storm on to the coast of Libya, is wandering dis-
consolately along the shore, and bids him be of good
cheer and betake himself to Dido's court at Carthage ;
assures him that his fleet is not lost, and points in con-
firmation of her words to twelve swans who have escaped
from the attack of a bird of prey and are now joyously
beginning to settle on the shore. The connexion between
the Angelic Birds of the Paradiso and the Swans of the
Aeneid is effected in the following way :
H. V. 332 {October 17, 1913).
Pars celeris ^ . , . winged sandals—-the messenger of
the Gods. iftixoirofXTros [an epithet of Hermes, who
was identified by the Romans with Mercury]—there is
a thought behind this which is not yet clear . . .
H. V. 406 {May 5, 1915).
Pars celeris ^
—something about swans—- Virgil—the
simile—some in the aii- wheeling—the beating wings
H. V. 395 {April 3, 1915).
The wiUow tree— Dido with a willow in her hand
—& waft her love to come again to Carthage
—
Tantae molis erat [Romanam condere gentem] ^
— A
bird among the bird-droves of God—white wings
beating ... & out of lamentation cometh hope . . .
^ Pars celeris, as Mrs. Salter herself pointed out, is simply an attempt
at Vergil's description of the twelve swans, some of whom are actually
settling on the ground, and some still circling, or wheeling, in the air
preparatory to settling. See Aen. I. 396 :
''
Aut capere aut captas,"
etc.
^ " Tantae molis erat," etc., is very definitely connected with the
siifferings that Jimo inflicted on Aeneas by sea :
" she drove all over
ocean the Trojan remnant . . . and held them afar from Latium ; and
many a year were they wandering driven of fate aroimd all the seas.
Such work was it to found the Roman people." (Mackail's Translation of
Aen. I. 29-33.)
572 J. 0. Picldington. [part
H. V. 500 {April \, 1917).
. . . fluttering wings
—
{drawing of two birds in down-
ward flight) descending . . . angelic messengers—there
is a train of thought running through— Iris &
Mercury & Gabriel—others too but those chief—all
messengers . . .
H. V. 508 {Ju7ie 18, 1917).
Birds—the bird droves of God—{drawing of a bird)
wings beating—birds & angels— ayyeAot — I do not
think that has been quite understood yet—partly
understood but not aU— Maeldune—that too . . .
H. V. 515 {November 22, 1917).
. . . Swans— Aphrodite wings—the beating of
their wings many together—the sacred song . . .
I had written the whole of this Section as it stands
before I happened to Light upon a reference to the Para-
diso passage in Rusldn's Unto This Last} The reference
in Ruskin goes to confirm the view expressed above that
the Dante passage was preferred to other simpler ways of
representing the subject of Just Government because it
could be conveniently fitted on to other topics which the
communicators wanted to introduce. I do not imagine
just because Ruskin happens to have a reference to the
Paradise passage that therefore the scripts intend a refer-
ence to the Rusldn passage. It would be utterly unsound
to argue in that way. The grounds on which I base my
conjecture that the scripts intend a reference both to the
original passage in the Paradise and to the passage in
which Ruskin makes use of it are two. The first, and
weaker, ground is that while in H. V. 380 the passage is
said to be " in Dante," in H. V. 471 it is called " a
passage in literature " ; and it seems to me odd to speak
1 It is not, however, from Ruskin that the automatist can have
gleaned the detail about the lily in the eagle's beak ; for Ruskin does
not mention the lily.
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scri-pts. 573
of it as "a passage in literature " after definitely assigning
it to Dante unless the passage in question is to be found
somewhere else than in Dante. The second, and far
stronger, ground is that the scripts contain a good number
of references to Ruskin's Unto This Last, and some of
these, which I append in a footnote,'- show connexions
with topics already met with in this paper—namely, The
Dawn, The Return of the Golden Age, The armour of
God, Forgiveness of enemies and Mercy—which may
obviously be in unison with the topic of Just Government
on earth.
Ruskin's reference to the Paradiso passage comes in the
chapter of Unto This Last entitled " Qui Judicatis Ter-
ram," and this title is part of the text from the Book of
Wisdom,
Diligite iustitiam qui judicatis terram,
iH. V. 536 (January 14, 1920).
. . . the dawn the dawn—not unto these—another race & other
times—the golden age begins anew [Shelley, Hellas]—the cycle of
time wheels revolving vmto this last—round & round—bidden
to the feast . . . the labourer the vineyard—measure pressed
down & overflowing—for as much as ye have done it to the
least of these
—
H. V. 545 {November 28, 1921).
. . . the last \mtil the day dawn . . . Between the lilies The
helmet of faith [Ephes. vi. :
" Put on the whole armour of God,"
etc.] . . . Unto this last The lilies . . .
H. V. 570 {May 20, 1922).
. . . Again & again Unto this last . . . Full measure meted
out . . .
Ruskin's title " Unto This Last " is taken, of course, from the Parable
of the Labourers in the Vineyard. " Measure pressed down and over-
flowing " and " fuU measure meted out " refer to Luke vi. 35-38 :
" But
love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again ;
and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the
Highest : for he is kind unto the imthankful, and to the evil. Be ye
therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful. Judge not [see
H. V. 278 under " Mercy and Truth," p. 529 above], and ye shall not
be judged : condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned : forgive, and
ye shall be forgiven : Give, and it shall be given unto you ; good
measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall
men give into your bosom. For with the same measiire that ye mete
withal, it shall be measured to you again."
674 J. G. Piddington. [part
into which the spirits of the Faithful and Just Rulers
form themselves. It is as follows :
'
The rich and the poor have met. God is their maker.'
[Prov. xxii. 2.]
'
The rich and the poor have met. God is their light.'
They '
have met ' : more literally, have stood in each
other's way (obviavenint) . That is to say, as long as the
world lasts, the action and counteraction of wealth and
poverty, the meeting, face to face, of rich and poor, is
just as appointed and necessary a law of the world as the
flow of stream to sea, or the interchange of power among
the electric clouds :
—' God is their maker.' But, also,
this action may be either gentle and just, or convulsive
and destructive . . . And which of these it shall be
depends on both rich and poor knowing that God is their
light ; that in the mystery of human life there is no other
hght than this by which they can see each other's faces,
and live ; —light, which is called in another of the books
among which the merchant's maxims have been preserved,
the '
sun of justice,' of which it is promised that it shall
rise at last with '
healing '
(health-giving or helping, mak-
ing whole or setting at one) in its wings.^ For truly this
healing is only possible by means of justice
I have just spoken of the flowing of streams to the sea
as a partial image of the action of wealth. In one
respect it is not a partial, but a perfect image. The
popular economist thinks himself wise in having dis-
covered that wealth, or the forms of property in general,
must go where they are required ; that where demand is,
supply must follow. He farther declares that this course
of demand and supply cannot be forbidden by human
laws. Precisely in the same sense, and with the same
certainty, the waters of the world go where they are
required . . . The course neither of clouds nor rivers can
be forbidden by human will. But the disposition and
administration of them can be altered by human foresight.
Whether the stream shall be a curse or a blessing, depends
upon man's labour, and administrating intelligence . . .
1 Malachi iv. 2.
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 575
In like manner this wealth " goes where it is required."
No human laws can withstand its flow. They can only
guide it : but this, the leading trench and limiting mound
can do so thoroughly, that it shall become water of life
—
the riches of the hand of wisdom ;
or, on the contrary,
by leaving it to its own lawless flow, they may make it,
what it has been too often, the last and deadliest of
national plagues : water of Marah—the water which feeds
the roots of evil.
The necessity of these laws of distribution or restraint
is curiously overlooked in the ordinary political economist's
definition of his own '
Science.' He calls it, shortly, the
'
science of gettmg rich.' . . .
I hope I do not misrepresent him by assuming that he
means his science to be the science of '
getting rich by
legal or just means.' In this definition, is the word
'
just,' or '
legal,' finally to stand 1 For it is possible
among certain nations, or under certain rulers, or by help
of certain advocates, that proceedings may be legal which
are by no means just. If, therefore, we leave at last only
the word '
just ' in that place of our definition, the in-
sertion of this solitary and small word will make a notable
difference in the grammar of our science. For then it
will follow that m order to grow rich scientifically, we
must grow rich justly ;
and, therefore, know what is just
;
so that our economy will no longer depend merely on
prudence, but on jurisprudence—and that of divine, not
human law. Which prudence is indeed of no mean order,
holding itself, as it were, high in the air of heaven, and
gazing for ever on the light of the sun of justice ; hence
the souls which have excelled in it are represented
by Dante as stars forming in heaven for ever the figure
of the eye of an eagle : they having been in life the
discerners of light from darkness ; or to the whole human
race, as the light of the body, which is the eye ;
^ while-
those souls which form the wings of the bird (giving power
and dominion to justice, '
healing in its wings ') trace also
1 The reference is to Matt. vi. 22 :
" But lay up for yourselves
treasures in heaven. . . . For where your treasure is, there will your
heart be also. The light of the body is the eye."
576 J. G. Piddington. [part
in light the inscription in heaven :
'
diligite justitiam
QUI JUDiCATis TERRAM.' '
Ye who judge the earth, give
'
(not, observe, merely love, but) '
diligent love to justice,'
Now, if by " the lily and the eagle " the communicators
do intend this double reference to Ruskin and to Dante, and
if the Dante passage is associated with '
Vengeance is mine,'
a topic that seems to relate to the international situation
resulting from the War, how can it also be associated
with the Ruskin passages relating to political economy ?
The answer I should be inclined to give is that inter-
national politics and social problems react on each other
so powerfully that often the one cannot be considered
apart from the other ;
and, moreover, that the diseases
which poison the body politic and international relations
must be treated in the same spirit of Mercy and Justice,
if they are to be healed.
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 511
SOME SCRIPTS OF JULY AND AUGUST 1914.
I can imagine a critic, who has reached this point in
my paper, raising some such objections as the follomng :
" Granted that there are predictions of the War in the
scripts, and that different automatists express these pre-
dictions with a greater degree of coincidence in symbolism
than chance will explain, but which telepathy between
them wiU explain, there is notliing particvilarly remarkable
in the fact that various automatists, especially if mutually
influencing each other telepathicaUy, should unite in pre-
dicting a great European War. It is not only automatic
writers who have made such predictions : other quite
normal people have made them too. Since 1907 Sir
Henry Wilson was convinced that Germany was bent on
a war of world-conquest ;
many diplomatists, many
soldiers, some statesmen and journalists and novelists,
foresaw what was coming, and some of them devoted
time and energy to the task of warning the world of the
fate in store for it. One could almost say that it was a
safe prediction to make, especially if the prophet were
wise enough to refrain from naming a date for the fulfil-
ment of his prophecy.
" Had Mrs. King, Uke most of the other automatists,
been producing script for many years before August 1914,
and if during these earher years her script had maintained
silence on the subject of the War, then the sudden
outburst between October 1913 and July 1914 of warnings
of a corning catastrophe would have suggested that the
event was near. But it so happens that Mrs. Iving did
not begin to produce script till 1913, and consequently the
nearness in time of her predictions to the event has Little
significance. It is true that such phrases as '
Hearken while
there is yet time '
(King 79), '
The flight in winter ... it is
not far ' (King 80), count for something ; but terms like
'
far '
and '
near '
are capable of very wide interpretation.
" The scripts, then, it would seem, leave the date of
678 J. G. Piddington. [part
the outbreak of the threatened catastrophe, which, unhke
the bare fact of the catastrophe, was a difficult thing to
foresee, entirely vague."
Although this criticism takes no account of the prob-
ability that no long interval would separate the warnings
repeatedly addressed to Mrs. King to prepare herself for a
coming trial from the occiirrence of the trial, since prema-
ture warnings are apt to lose their force, I should not
regard it as wholly unreasonable. So with a view to
meeting it in part, should it be made, I propose to
discuss a few scripts written hy Mrs. Willett, Mrs. Verrall,
and Mrs. Salter during the month of July 1914, which
appear to me to imply that War is immediately imminent.
At the same time I should reply to my imaginary critic
that, though I know of nothing in the scripts which can
be held to fix the precise time when the War would
begin, the whole language of the scripts in my view does
suggest that the events which form the subject of much
of the scripts are not far-distant and are to begin, if not
to end, during the lifetime of the automatists themselves
and of those who study the scripts.
The Scripts of July 1914.
In considering the scripts of July 1914, there is one date
and hour which it is important to keep in mind ; and
that is 6 o'clock on the evening .of July 23, 1914. It
was at that hour on that day that the Austrian Minister
at Belgrade presented his Government's ultimatum to
Serbia. That ultimatum made War—not a certainty,
because the extreme moderation of Serbia's reply brought
a short gleam of hope—but so great a probability, that a
prediction of an immediate outbreak of war made after
July 23, 1914, would deserve comparatively little attention.
Between Jvxly 9 and July 23, 1914, however, so far as the
general public was concerned—and our automatists are
members of the general pubUc—there was no stronger
reason for anticipating an immediate outbreak of War than
there had been at many other times durmg the preceding
three or four years or more ; and when I say this I am
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 579
not forgetting the murders at Serajevo on June 28, 1914.
The first Morocco crisis of 1905 and 1906, still more the
Agadir crisis of 1911, might well have prompted the
avitomatists to indulge in prophecies of an immediate
outbreak of war ; and yet I see no trace of such pro-
phecies in the scripts written about these periods.
It must not be imagined that our automatists were in
possession of " inside " information ; and it should further-
more be borne in mind that a great European War was
by no means universally anticipated even by those who
may be supposed to have had the advantage of " inside
"
information. Thus, both in 1908 and 1911, the then
First Lord of the Admiralty, Mr. McKenna, was engaged
in an acute controversy with a section of the Cabinet who
thought the moment opportune for reducing expenditure
on the Navy ;
^ and " Mr. Lloyd George, in an interview
published on the first day of 1914, declared that Liberahsm
would be false to its trust if it did not seize the oppor-
tunity of what he asserted to be the improvement in
Anglo-German relations to diminish expenditure on arma-
ments." ^ Moreover, in 1912 and 1913 there was a much-
advertised movement in progress for bettering our relations
with Germany : a movement which found its chief in-
spirers and supporters among people of Liberal politics.
I recall these facts, need I say? with no desire to arouse
political feeling, and only because they serve to show
that, while war was sinticipated by some, this anticipation
was not shared by aU, and—I do not think this will be
disputed—that Liberals were less inchned to believe m the war-
like designs of Germany than were their political opponents.
^ " He [Mr. M'Kenna] entered on his new duties [as First Lord, in
1908] when the country was profoundly stirred by the rapid increase of
the German fleet, and was in doubt whether the preparations of the
Admiraltjf were on a sufficiently extensive scale. At the same time a
large portion of the Liberal party was disposed to belittle the danger
and to call a halt to building-schemes in the interest of peace and
economy. Mr. M'Kenna . . . resisted the section of the Cabinet, repre-
sented by the powerful figures of Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Churchill,
who took this last view." (Enc. Brit, Vol. XXXI., s.v. " M'Kenna.")
"
Enc. Brit., Vol. XXXI., s.v. " Lloyd George." The interview in
question appeared in the Daily Chronicle of January 1, 1914.
580 J. G. Piddington. [PART
Now it so happens that the three automatists whose
scripts I am about to discuss were Liberals.^ Mrs.
Verrall was an ardent Liberal ; Mxs. Salter is a Liberal
(I leave her to supply a qualifying epithet) ; and Mrs.
Willett is a more than ardent Liberal. This being the
case, and judging also from my personal knowledge of
them, I should not hesitate to say that these three ladies,
in their normal state at any rate, had no marked tendency
to anticipate that Germany would provoke a great Euro-
pean War at the end of July 1914. Moreover, there is
almost proof that during at least the early summer of
1914 Mrs. Verrall felt no serious anxieties about the
international situation, for she spent most of June in
Switzerland ; and Mrs. Salter was actually in France when
the War broke out. None of the three ladies were
disciples of Mr. Leo Maxse, and I think the reader may
take it for certain that the mind of none of them was
preoccupied with a menace of war.^
The extracts from scripts written during July 1914
which seem to me to indicate knowledge of the fact that
War was to be declared within a few days are as follows :
W. 342 {JuUj 9, 1914).
. . . Farewell
A final word Thou shalt stand in thy lot
E. G.
H. V. 359 (Juhj 17, 1914. 5.30 pjn.).
Spearheads many together that was written
—
spissa cohors—along the plain . . .
Mrs. King is a Unionist. She tells me, however, that she did not
feel any keener anxiety about the international situation in 1913-1914
than did the ordinary run of educated people.
^ After reading this paper in proof Mr. Salter wrote me as follows :
" I can cori'obora.to the statemeiit that neither Mrs. Verrall nor Helen
[i.e. Mrs. Salter] in the summer of 1914 had any apprehension of war.
About the end of the first week in July I remember talking to Helen
about a tour she and Mrs. Verrall were intending to take, after Helen's
holiday in France, in the Tyrol. For the purpose of this, she borrowed
some maps of the Tyrol from ray brother. Clearly, therefore, they did
not regard the Austrian situation as serious, even as late as that."
Lxxxvii.] Comparison of Scripts. 581
M. V. 626 {Wednesday, Jtdy 17, 1914. 11 jj.m.).
There will be a message for [Mrs. Willett] early next
week—take care that it is sent . . .
M. V. 628 {Saturday, July 20, 1914. 10.15 p.m.).
It is important to wite this now— Put it down
—
This is a message not for you and it is not easy to
put it in a Avay that you will not understand
(Various phrases are then given as forming part of
the message " not for you." At this point the com-
municator evidently realises that a message " not for
Mrs. Verrall," which "it is important to write now,"
might be assumed to be the message for Mi's. Willett
spoken of three days earlier. Hence to prevent such
a misunderstanding he says :)
This is not the message of which I spoke before
(The previous topic is then resumed.) . . .
M. V. 629 {Sunday, July 21, 1914. 11.20 p.tn.).
. . . Now take this message to [Mi's. Willett]
—
The last words that we have given her have a
double meaning, one general one special— She has
only seen one—let her look for the other . . .
EXPLANATOEY NOTES ON W. 342, H. V. 359,
M. V. 626, 628, 629.
W. 342, of July 9, 1914, was the last script written by
Mrs. Willett before the War began.
M. V. 626, of July 17, 1914, was the first script written
by Mrs. Verrall after the date of W. 342. (It was
also the first script written after her return from
Switzerland.)
M. V. 629, of July 21, 1914, was written less than 48
hours before the Austrian Minister at Belgrade pre-
sented his Government's ultimatum to Serbia.
H. V. 359, of July 17, 1914, was the last script written
by Mrs. Salter before the War began.
There is no previous parallel in all Mrs. Willett's
scripts to the expression in W. 342 " A final word."
This emphatic phrase marks ofi, then, and defines beyond
question what is called in M. V. 629 " The last words
582 J. G. Pidclington. [PAET
that we have given her" ("her" meaning Mrs. Willett).
" Thou shalt stand in thy lot," moreover, is marked off
from what precedes not only by the phrase " A final
word," but also by a complete change of subject : for
the rest of the script—a long one—is almost entirely
taken up with hterary references to Fire and Dew.
" Thou shalt stand in thy lot " appears for the first and
only time in any of the scripts in W. 342 of July 9,
1914. It comes from the last verse of the last chapter
of the Book of Daniel. To bring out the full significance
of the appearance of this quotation at this date for the
first time in any of the Scripts, it will be necessary to
give the context of it :
Behold a certain man clothed in linen . . . said unto
me . . . {Dan. x. 5, 11.)
... at this time shaU Michael stand up, the great
prince which standeth for the children of thy people ; and
there shaU be a time of trouble, such as never was since
there was a nation even to that same time : and at that
time thy people shall be delivered. . . .
But thou, 0 Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the
book, even to the time of the end . . .
Then I Daniel looked, and, behold, there stood other
two . . .
And one said to the man clothed in linen, . . . How
long shall it be to the end of these wonders ?
And I heard the man clothed in linen, . . . when he
held up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven, and
sware by him that liveth for ever, that it shall be for a
time, times, and an half ; and when he shall have accom-
plished to scatter the power of the holy people, all these
thmgs shall be finished.
And I heard but I understood not ; then said I, 0 my
Lord, what shall be the end of these things ?
And he said. Go thy way, Daniel ; for the words are
closed up and sealed tUl the time of the end ...
And from the time that the daily sacrifice shaU be
taken away, and the abomination that maketh desolate
set up, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety
days.
Lxxxvn.] Comparison of Scripts. 583
Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand
three hundred and five and thhty days.
But go thou thy way till the end be, for thou shctlt rest>
and stand in thy lot at the end of the days.
[Dan. xii. 1-13.)
When the disciples came to Christ privately as he sat
on the Mount of Olives and asked him :
" When shall
these things be ?
" (" these things " meaning the destruc-
tion of the Temple) " and what shall be the sign of thy
commg, and of the end of the world ? ", he made reference
to this passage in Daniel :
When ye, therefore, shall see the abomination of desola-
tion, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy
place, (whoso readeth let him understand :)
Then let them which be in Judea flee into the moun-
tains :
Let him which is on the house-top not come down to
take any thing out of his house : . . .
And woe unto them that are with child, and to them
that give suck in those days !
But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter,
neither on the Sabbath day : For then shall be great
tribulation, such as was not from the beginning of the
world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.
{Matt. xxiv. 3-21.)
The immediate context, then, of Mrs. Willett's " Thou
shaft stand in thy lot " falls into line with the seven-fold
repetition of " Pray ye that your flight be not in the
winter " in pre-War King scripts.
I pass over for the moment H. V. 359, which comes
next m. chronological order, and take M. V. 626 of July 17,
1914, M. V. 628 of Jixly 20, and M. V. 629 of July 21.
In M. V. 626 comes the first mention of the message
for Mrs. WiUett. It is to be given " early next week "
;
and Mrs. VerraU is enjoined to take care to send it ;
though why there should be any particular hurry about
its reception, or why any particular care about com-
municating it, is not explained.
2q
/
584 J. G. Piddingto7i. [pakt
Three days later, on July 20, it is incidentally men-
tioned again—in M. V. 628 ; and then " early next week,"
in fact as early as possible next week, namely on Sunday,
July 21, 1914, the message is given—in M. V. 629. It
seems in itself an ordinary enoiigh kind of message, not
deserving of being led up to with such careful pre-
liminaries ; and on the face of it there seems no special
reason why it should be communicated " early next week."
Before Mrs. Verrall acted on the instructions given in her
script, she wrote to ask me whether I saw any objection
to her sending the message to Mrs. Willett. Before
answering her I consulted Mr. Balfour ;
^ and on July 25,
1914, I wrote to tell her that neither he nor I saw any
objection to the message being sent. After receiving my
answer Mrs. Verrall sent the message to Mrs. Willett on
July 29, 1914, and it reached her the next day.
If, as I assume, the last words written automatically by
Mi's. Willett,
" A final word Thou shalt stand in thy lot ",
are premonitory of the coming War, the reason why the
communicators were anxious to get a reference to them in
Mrs. Verrall's script early in the week beginning July 21,
1914, seems plain enough. They wanted to show by
means of a supernormal cross-reference that they realised
the importance of these " last words " before their true
significance could be known or guessed. Before July 23,
1914, the day on which Austria's viltimatum to Serbia was
presented, their significance was not, and hardly could
have been, divined.
The last words given to Mrs. Willett are, as M. V. 629
asserts, capable of bearing " a double meaning, one general
one special " ; for they may readily serve as a message of
assurance for the nation, as well as for the individual.
The reader will find a close parallel to this in Mrs. King's
scripts (see especially King 33, 34, 64, 85, 130, 185, 194),
where messages of encouragement to the automatist herself
1 I consulted Mr. Balfour, not because I attached any importance to
the matter, but simply because Mr. Balfour was, so to speak, in charge
of Mrs. Willett's scripts.
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 585
are interspersed with similar messages with a wider
application.
I go back now to H. V. 359, which was written four
and a halt hours earlier than the first of the three
;
M. V. scripts which have to do with the message to Mrs.
Willett.
Its opening phrase " Spearheads many together " is im-
I
mediately followed by " that was written " : words which
naturally mean that " Spearheads many together " had
been written before in Mrs. Salter's script, and which,
I do not doubt, were used to link the present script on
to the one in which " Spearheads many together " had
previously occurred. This, however, is one of the rare
cases where the script-memory is slightly at fault, for
" Spearheads many together " had never before appeared
in that exact form in Mrs. Salter's script.^
I will now quote all the' pre-War occurrences of " Spear-
head " and " Spear " in Mrs. Salter's scripts :
H. V. 61 {January 6, 1908).
. . . The harvest moon with a halo round it and a
starless sky Spikes clustered together yellow spears
A bird with outstretched wings a bird of prey
I think that completes the picture . . .
1 In December, 1921, I told Mrs. Salter that the last script she had
written before the War contained a prediction of it. I began to write
:, this paper at the end of June, 1922, finished the first draft of it on
July 21, and completed the revision on August 8, 1922. Mrs. Salter
knew I was writing a paper, and knew it was about predictions in the
scripts of the War, but notliing else. In the first script written by
i
Mrs. Salter after I had written the above passage about the slip on the
part of the script-memory, namely, on August 21, 1922, the following
occurs :
" Sowing the seed the dragon's teeth men in armour All the
hills cried aloud The clashing of arms The earth shall groan
beneath their feet The tramping of feet many together."
Mrs. Salter did not know, and cannot have known, that I had com-
mented in my paper on the fact that " Spearheads many together
"
had not actually been written except in H. V. 359. It loolis as if the
communicator knew of my comments on the difficulty, and was seeking
to remove it by the suggestion that "many together" in H. V. 359
had been meant to apply, not to the spearheads, but to the " armed
feet." Compare H. V. 107 (p. 588 below).
586 J. G. Piddington. [PABT
H. V. 97 {Augiist 10, 1908).
. . . the tough ashen spear the quivering shaft !
the arrow that flieth by day [cf. H. V. 469 below.] I
Douglas what of that it is all the same story the
battlecry of old
H. V. 121 {October 29, 1908).
. . . {drawing of a spear) a spearhead seeds sown !
the dragon's teeth [Cf. H. V. 408 below.] . . .
H. V. 165 {Maij 3, 1909).
... {drawing of a spearhead) spearheads {drawing of [
spearheads) thus clustered golden spears a flash of
light Beware the evU eye
by force and not by right shall they be ruled
In tribulation shall their hearts be schooled ^
H. V. 198 {February 23, 1910).
. . . the tough ashen spear [Cf. H. V. 97 above.] [
8o\(.x(><rKi<>y eyxos [long-shafted spear. Cf. H. V. 469 i,
below.] war—the rivals face to face . . .
H. V. 228 {February 1, 1911).
. . . La mort ne chome pas On Linden when the
sun was low a battlefield that is the picture
flashing swords—at the spear's point [Cf. H. V. 399
below.] . . .
This is the last reference to " spear " or " spearhead
"
in Mrs. Salter's scripts before July 17, 1914.
I cite next four instances of " spear " or " spearhead
"
from scripts written by Mrs. Salter after the outbreak of
War :
H. V. 399 {April 22, 1915).
. . . the iron hedge {illegible word) the spear's
point. [Cf. H. V. 228 above.] . . .
H. V. 400 {April 23, 1915).
. . . the iron-hedge that belongs to the spears—
a
^ This script should be contrasted with
H. V. 157 (March 1, 1909).
... an ear of barley the yellow spike . . . the ploughshare
sons of the plough the patient oxen beneath the yoke by
kindness shall they be ruled . . .
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 587
hedge of spears—bristling points but there is some-
thing left out here . . .
H. V. 408 {May 10, 1915).
. . . the hundred headed snake—the dragon's tooth
—
they shall spring up armed—bristling spears—m close
array—-armed men springing from the ground
H. V. 469 {March 19, 1916).
. . . arrows—brazen-tipped—-the arrow by day [Cf.
H. V. 97 above]—darkening the sun [An allusion
to the Battle of Thermopylae. Dieneces the Spartan,
when told by a man of Trachis that so numerous
were the Persian bowmen that their arrows hid tne
sun, said that in that case they would have the
advantage of fighting in the shade, instead of in the
glare of the sun. See Herodotus, VII. 226]—the
spearheads weapons of war [Cf. 2 Sam. i. 27 :
" How
are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war
perished !
"]
—
SoAixoctkioi' eyx"^ [Cf. H. V. 198 above] . . .
" Spearheads," I think it wili be admitted, even if the
pre-War references alone are taken into account, symbolize
War in Mrs. Salter's scripts. I drew attention in a
footnote to the contrast between H. V. 165 and H. V.
157 in order to illustrate a double use of the " Spear
"
or " Spike " metaphor. There are two lia,rvests in the
scripts. One is the Harvest of War symboKzed by
clustered spears, and by the crop that sprang from the
sowing of the Dragon's teeth. ^ The other, symbolized by
spikes or spears of yellow corn, is the Harvest of Peace,
^ How fittingly the symbolism of the dragon's teeth can be applied to
the circumstances of the Great War may be judged from the following
passage in the Oedipus Coloneus of Sophocles, where the dying Oedipus
bids Theseus keep secret the site of his tomb :
" that so it may ever
make for thee a defence, better than many shields, better than the
succouring spear of neighbours. . . . And t?ius shalt thou hold this
city [i.e. Athens] unscathed from the side of the Dragon's blood [awapTQn'
air' avSp^v, i.e. the Thebans, between whom and the Athenians was a
long-standing feud] ; full many States Ughtly enter on offence, e'en
though their neighbour Uves aright. For the gods are slow, though
they are sure, in visitation, when men scorn godliness, and turn to
frenzy." (Jebb's translation of Oed. Col., 11. 1524 ff.)
See in this connexion Proc, Vol. XXX., pp. 204-205.
588 J. 0. Piddington. [part
when Virgo (Astraea) with her emblematic spike of corn
shall return to earth, and men " shall beat their swords
into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning hooks,"
and " nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither
shall they learn war any more." This bifurcation of the
metaphor has possibly been the cause of slight confusion
in H. V. 61 and 165.
I take now the words that follow " Spearheads many i
together " in H. V. 359 of July 17, 1914 :
o " Spissa \
cohors—along the jdain.'' " Spissa cohors " may be trans-
lated " the close-packed cohort." ^ The phrase, which has
never occurred since in Mrs. Salter's scripts, had occurred
once before, and once only, nearly six years previously, in
the following context :
H. V. 107 (Se2)t. 3, 1908).
The hedgehog's spiny covering is not more dense
spissa cohors and tramp of armed feet on the high
road [Cf. H. V. script of August 21, 1922, p. 585
above.] and the dew is scattered from the grass all
the silvery gossamers that twinkle into green and gold
but here there is no calm . . .
The spiny covering of the hedgehog no doubt serves
here as an easy means of transition to the " spissa cohors";
but I think it is not introduced merely as a transitional
phrase, but also serves as a link with " Spikes clustered
together " in H. V. 61, " a hedge of spears—bristling
points " in H. V. 400, and " l^ristling spears " in H. V.
408.
With " tramp of armed feet " compare the following
script of Mrs. Salter's, which we have already had occasion
to discuss under " Vengeance is mine " (pp. 560-561
above) :
H. V. 72 {Feb. 18, 1908).
. . . thoiigh theu" sins be as scarlet yet shall they
be white as snow thus spake the prophet Isaiah
The reference to Isaiah was important.
Now describe the scene.
1 The Roman cohort was the tenth part of a legion, and the size of a
legion varied between 4200 and 6000 men.
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 589
A winding valley amid rocky peaks. A green strip
where the river flows and groups of darkleaved trees ».
chestnuts I think and at the bottom a town with
white houses and many towers nestling close together
and the rude invader from the north shall destroy
them coming down the pass with many men and
horses and the tread of armed men shall echo in the
hUls around ...
The quotation in H. V. 107 about " the silvery gossa-
mers " comes from the description in In Memoriani xi. of
a calm autumn morning. I rather suspect that it slipped
in by mistake, and was really an irrelevant association
aroused in the automatist's mind by the preceding refer-
ence to armed men scattering the dew from the grass.
If this was so, the communicator saved the situation by
adding the comment :
" but here there is no calm."
The words " spissa cohors " in H. V. 359 are followed
by " along the plairi." In view of their context they are
an almost certain reference back to a passage in H. V.
183, of Sept. 9, 1909. At any rate when I was annotat-
ing H. V. 359 within a day or two of its being written,
and when I had no idea at all that the scripts contained
references to the coming war, I gave a cross-reference to
" across the plain " and its context in H. V. 183 :
H. V. 183 {Sept. 9, 1909).
The mjrriad hosts the sword of Gideon the sword
shall smite—the god of battle with chariots and with
horsemen.
Across the plain the dust of their coming is seen
afar—^they that have lived by the sword by the
sword shaU they perish, the mills of God grind
slowly . . .
Here a contrast is obviously drawn between " the
myriad hosts " of the Midianites and the Amaleldtes that
" lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude
"
and what, perhaps, the Midianites regarded as Gideon's
" contemptible little army " of 300 men. The Spartans at
Thermopylae likewise (See H. V. 469 on p. 587 above)
numbered only 300.
590 J . G. Piddington.
" They that have lived by the sword," etc., is slightly
misquoted from Matt. xxvi. 52, where Jesus says to one
of his followers who had cut off the ear of the high
priest's servant :
-
. .
Put up again thy sword into his place : for all they
that take the sword, shall perish with the sword.
See in this connexion " Crossed swords—the sword in
the scabbard" in H. V. 448, and parallel passages, dis-
cussed above on pp. 513-514.
" The mills of God grind slowly " is from Longfellow's
Retribution.^
When, then, on July 17, 1914, " Spearheads," and
" spissa cohors—along the plain " were written, I assume
that the intention was to refer back to these earher
scripts in which these phrases had appeared. The date on
which " spissa cohors " was repeated for the first and only
time for nearly six years was, it must be admitted,
singularly opportune ; and the actual phrase itself, spissa
cohors, could, moreover, be applied with propriety to the
dense masses of German troops that were to be employed
in the invasions of Belgium and of France a fortnight
later.
Was it, I ask, by chance that, six days before Austria
addressed her ultimatum to Serbia and in the last script
which Mrs. Salter wrote before the outbreak of war, these
suggestive phrases, " Spearheads many together " and
" spissa cohors," made their reappearance 1
Was it by chance that on the very same day the first
reference emerged in Mrs. Verrall's script to "the last
words " given to Mrs. Willett ?
And was it by chance that the last words of the last
script written by Mrs. Willett before the War were " Thou
shalt stand in thy lot " ?
iJebb in his comments on the passage in the Oedipus Coloneus to
which I have referred above (see footnote on p. 587), compares
" Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet tliey grind exceeding small "
with Sophocles'
deal -yap eC /xev oxj/e o' eiaopuia'
(" For the gods are slow, though they are sure, in visitation ").
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scripts. 591
The Scripts of August 1914.
I now proceed to deal with the hrst scripts written
after the outbreak of the War by these same three
automatists : Mrs. VerraU, Mrs. Willett, and Mrs. Salter.
I shall treat Mrs. Verrall's script dated 10.30 p.m. on
August 4, 1914, as the first written by her after the
outbreak of war ; for though, technically, war between
England and Germany was not due to begin till half an
hour later, by the time she started writing it had become
a moral certainty, and anyhow Germany was already at
war with France and Russia, and the invasion of Belgium
was in progress.
For convenience' sake I give the text of this script
again, but I need not enter into detailed comment on it,
for that I have already done when dealing with the topic
of The Violet Crown (see pp. 542-548 above). Its burden,
it will be remembered, is a universal brotherhood of man,
a free commonwealth of nations, " Earth at last a warless
world, a single race, a single tongue," a very Civitas
Dei.
M. V. 632 {August 4, 1914. 10.30 pjn.).
There is a connexion which you have not seen
between the message in the mountains Whence
came h e 1 p—remember that, and your present
feeling— Don't investigate or take this too literally
—
And remember that you, you yourself gained somethmg
from the writing there— There is a phrase in one of
[Mrs. Willett's] scripts which may help you to under-
stand The afterglow on the Soul's surface . . .
rest in the thought that care and love prevails and
that beyond these voices there is peace . . .
Dear city of God—be a citizen of that city and of
no lesser
—
Dear City of men without master or lord That is
the city of us all if we wiH make it so— And the
city of Cecrops is also the wearer of the ohve
crown
—
The first script written by Mrs. Willett after the out-
592 J. G. Piddington. [part
break of war bears the date of August 14, 1914, and runs
thus :
W. 343 (August 14, 1914).
Pax vobiscum the old Latin greeting Latium the
ancient city The walled city As a Bride descending
John's vision this is disconnected but I want to
get you into the swing The fleshy tablets of the
heart rose veined red at the ripe core of it writ
not in water And last an amethyst that is better
There is a word of good cheer to be said from this
side All Stands & shall stand Be of good cheer
that is to be said It is the promise of Joy in
unimagined bower & tree in wavs not fulfilled & in
paths yet untrodden the promise of Joy remember
that Have faith for it shall not fail Henry Sidg-
- wick is in this thing & his message is one of Hope
An anchor & a Rainbow & a Promised Land They
shall go in & possess it they shall . . . taste of the
fruit of their travail & be filled Put on thy strength
oh Zion It is the idea of triumph which is wanted,
& Reward, & gladness, & Guidance—all these are
wanted in this Sc as our message Farewell
With " Pax Vobiscum " compare W. 231, of January 18,
1911, which there has already been occasion to quote
above (p. 514)
:
Pax Vobiscum . . . Victories other than those of
War ... go on yes now the angels' song in terra
[pax] But why break off ? Janus the gates thereof
closed or open they stand and stood very long ago
many years their hinges did not revolve the Olive
Branch that too the Ploughshares the quiet hours the
quiet the great calm . . . All her paths are Peace.
"As a Bride descending " refers, of course, to John the
Divine's vision of "a new heaven and a new earth," and
of " the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from
God, out of heaven." Compare M. V. 674 on p. 646
above.
" The fleshy tablets of the heart . . . writ not in water
"
LXXXVII.] Comparison of Scrijds. 593
points the contrast between the Old and the New Dis-
pensation :
Forasmuch as ye are manifestly declared to be the
epistle of Christ ministered by us, wi-itteu not with ink,
but with the Spirit of the living God ; not in tables of
stone, but in fleshy tables of the heart . . .
But if the ministration of death, written and engraven
in stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could
not stedfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of
his countenance ; which glory was to be done away ;
How shall not the ministration of the Spirit be rather
glorious ? (2 Cor. iii. 3, 7, 8.)
" A7id last an amethyst.'' The ultimate source of this
is, of course, Rev. xxi. 20, " the twelfth an amethyst," of
the precious stones wherewith the foundations of the wall
of the Holy City were garnished ; but the immediate
reference is to the last line of Mrs. Browning's Aurora
Leigh, of the final scene in which " rose veiyied " " red at
the ripe core of it" are imperfect reminiscenses :
'
First God's love,'
'
And next,' he smiled, '
the love of wedded souls,
Which still presents that mystery's counterpart.
Sweet shadow-rose, upon the water of life.
Of such a mystic substance, Sharon gave
A name to ! human, vital, fructuous rose.
Whose calyx holds the multitude of leaves.
Loves filial, loves fraternal, neighbour loves
And civic—all fair petals, all good scents.
All reddened, sweetened from one central Heart !
'
'The world's old,
But the old world waits the time to be renewed.
Towards which, new hearts in individual growth
Must quicken, and increase to multitude
In new dynasties of the race of men ;
Developed whence, shall grow spontaneously
594 J. G. Piddington. [part
New churches, new oeconomies, new laws
Admitting freedom, new societies
Excluding falsehood : he shall make all new.'
My Romney ! Lifting up my hand in his,
As wheeled by Seeing Spirits towards the East,
He turned instinctively, where, faint and far.
Along the tinghng desert of the sky, '
Beyond the circle of the conscious hills,
Were laid in jasper-stone as clear as glass
The first foundations of that new, near Day
Which should be builded out of heaven to God.
He stood a moment with erected brows
In silence, as a creature might who gazed,
—
Stood calm, and fed his blind, majestic eyes
Upon the thought of perfect noon : and when
I saw his soul saw,— Jasper first,' I said,
'
And second sapphire ;
third, chalcedony ;
The rest in order,
—
last, an amethyst.'
" All stands <h shall stand." This refers back to " Thou
shalt stand in thy lot " in Mrs. Willett's script of July 9,
1914. On July 30, 1914, Ms. WiUett had received the
message sent her through Mrs. Verrall's script, in which
she was told that the last words of her last script bore a
general as well as a special meaning. They are here
given a general meaning ;
but, of course, in view of
Mrs. Willett's knowledge, I make no claim that the
modification was due to supernormal agency.
''Be of good cheer'' This, I believe, is one of several
allusions to Christ's walking on the sea :
But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed
with waves : for the wind was contrary. And in the
fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking
on the sea. But when the disciples saw him walking on
the sea, they were troubled. But straightway Jesus spake
unto them saying. Be of good cheer ; it is I ; be not
afraid.^
^ As stated above (p. 512), I believe that Christ's walking on the sea
is combined in the scripts with His calming of the storm : a combina-
Lxxxvn.] Com'parison of Scripts. 595
" The anchor " is the symbol of Hope.
With " ihe Raiiihoiv " compare
it was not for nothing that you and the German mother
and the French girl looked at the glow together on the
great peak I have set my bow in the clouds
in M. V. 637, of August 22, 1914 (seo above, pp. 544-547).
Last comes the first script written by Mrs. Salter after
the oiitbreak of war. It bears the date August 29, 1914,
and runs as follows :
H. V. 360 {August 29, 1914).
. . . astraea reddux [sic]—per ardua sors futura
manet—in excelsis—the western sea—the thundering
noises . . .
As already explained (see pp. 551, 563 above), "Astraea
redux " is an allusion to Vergil's Messianic Eclogue, and
stands for the return of Justice (Astraea or Virgo) when
the Age of Gold returns. Compare H. V. 229, of
February 10, 1911 :
[Jam redit et Virgo, redeunt] Saturnia regna the land
flowing with milk and honey the promised land :
and with this compare in turn W. 343, of August 14,
1914 :
An anchor & a Rainbow & a Promised Land They
shall go in & possess it.
" Per ardua sors futura manet " means " Through diffi-
culties the future lot (or, destiny) stands firm." Compare
" Thou shalt stand in thy lot " in the last pre-War
WiUett script. Sors is the actual word used in the
Vulgate version of the last verse of the Book of Daniel :
et stabis in sorte tua in finem dierum.
tion made familiar to English ears by the lines in the well-known
hymn " Eternal Father, strong to save " :
" O Christ, Whose voice the waters heard
And hush'd their raging at thy word,
Who walkedst on the foaming deep,
And calm amid the storm didst sleep."
596 J. G. Piddington. [PAET
" In excelsis," as already stated above (p. 552), goes
back to H. V. 168, of May 11, 1909 :
gloria in excelsis on earth peace goodwill towards men.
" The toestern sea—the thtmdering noises " is an illumi-
nating example of " cribbing " (see pp. 449-451 above).
It is a " crib " from M. V. 136, of February 12, 1907,
which opens thus :
The voyage of Maeldvuie faery lands forlorn and noises
of the wester]! sea thundering noises of the western sea.
This script was perfectly well known to Mrs. Salter, as
not only had it been shown to her on May 19, 1907, but
it had been printed in Proceedings no less than three
times (Vol. XXII., p. 113; Vol. XXVI., p. 182; Vol.
XXVII., p. 88). The Voyage of Maeldune, as we have
already seen (pp. 565-669 above), is used in the scripts to
represent the abandonment of revenge and the forgiveness
of enemies. I think it possible that the commimicators
preferred to effect their reference to this poem by means
of a " crib " from M. V. 136, rather than by repeating
" And he said to me Oh Maeldune " from a previous
H. V. script (H. V. 323, of April 9, 1913), in order to
suggest that they had long foreseen the approach of a
crisis in the world's history when men would have to ask
themselves the same question that the Saint asked Mael-
dune :
" How long shall the murder last ?
"
and obey, if they were wise, the Saint's command.
It will be thought, perhaps, that these three scripts of
Mrs. Verrall's, Mrs. Willett's, and Mrs. Salter's, with their
concordant allusions to
a universal commonwealth of man,
the Holy City descending bride,
the return of Justice,
peace on earth, goodwill towards men, and
the renunciation of a blood-feud,
are merely reflexions of a phase of feeling prevalent in
LXXXVII.] Comfarison of Scripts. 597
this country soon after War began. But apart from the
fact that Mrs. Verrall's script preceded this outburst of
feehng, even if Mrs. Willett's and Mrs. Salter's did not,
a fatal objection to this supposition is that, for years
before the War broke out, the scripts were full of what
T may for brevity call these Utopian topics, and these
had again and again been placed in juxtaposition to the
War topic.
Moreover, if the scripts were liable to reflect popular
feehng, one would expect to find m them at or about the
time of the Armistice expressions of jubilation, and during
the past year or more expressions of disillusionment ; but
of neither, so far as I can see, is there any trace.
To my mind one of the striking things in the scripts
is the sobriety of their language. Wherever it has been
possible to check it, —that is to say, wherever what is
said about an event can be compared with the event
itself, the language appears to me to be temperate, even
restrained, and certainly without exaggeration : such, in
fact, as might be expected, if the communicating group in
reality includes, as ostensibly it does, Henry Sidgwick and
Edmund Gurney among its members. But it is not
always possible to compare the event with what is said
about it. We cannot, for instance, compare the promised
Utopia with the forecast of it. If in time to come the
world show no improvement, then the forecast is false.
And if it show only some moderate degree of improve-
ment, again, I should say, the forecast is false ; for the
terms of the forecast are emphatic, and nothing short of
a very thorough-going and lasting change for the better
in international and social conditions could be held to
fulfil them. At the same time, the scripts fix no date for
the fiilfilment, and it would be unreasonable to expect so
great a revolution as they portend to come about "in a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye." The whole trend
of the communications, moreover, is against any such
expectation, endorsing, as it does, the old view that
progress is achieved only by long-continued effort. Never-
theless, if I may hazard an opinion, the communications
do not seem to me to convey the impression that the
598 J. G. Piddingfon. [part
predicted Utopia is to be looked for only in a dim and
distant future, centuries hence. If—and it is a gigantic
"if"—if, I say, there is truth in the forecast, then "there
may be some standing here, which shall not taste of death,
till they see " " the fair beginning of a time," and the
old order yielding place
—
slowly yielding place—to new.
LXXXVII.] Concluding Remarks. 509
n
CiONCLUDING REMARKS.
In conclusion I have a few observations to offer on the
evidence for prevision to be found in the scripts discussed
in this paper. For this purpose it will be convenient to
divide the predictions into four classes :
(1) Predictions in general terms of an event—the War
—
that was also foretold by persons who arrived at
their forecast by ordinary processes of thought ;
(2) Predictions of the approximate date, or ratlier of the
close imminence, of the War ;
(3) Predictions of a particular incident
—
e.g. the sinking of
the Lusitania—seemingly beyond the range of
ordinary human forecast ;
(4) Predictions in broad outline of the future of the world.
(i) As regards the first class, prevision of the coming of
a great European War is not necessarilj^ evidence of
supernormal faculty ; for many people with no pretensions
to supernormal powers predicted the War. I am not
overlooking the circumstance that at least five of the
automa.tists made the prediction. That consensus is,
indeed, a very remarkable thing ; but it does not alter
the fact that prevision of the War is not in. itself a proof
that the prophet acquired his information in a super-
normal manner. Nor am I losing sight of the circum-
stance that the predictions in the scripts go back at least
to the year 1907, and may very likely prove, when we
have had time to complete the study of the scripts, to go
back as far as 1901. But, as I have already observed,
by 1907 Sir Henry Wilson was convinced of Germany's
designs, and it may well be that others reached the same
conclusion earlier still. The predictions included under
heading (1) contain no indications, so far as I am aware,
of the precise or approximate time when the War was to
begin. All that can be said is that the scripts do convey
the impression that the War will affect the present
600 J. G. Piddington. [part
generation. That, however, was Kkewise the constant
burden of those who normally predicted it.
(2) By the predictions of the approximate date of the
outbreak of the War I mean those contained in what
I have called " Some Scripts of July, 1914." I think
these scripts may be fairly interpreted as meaning that
the War is imminent. If this interpretation be accepted,
some might be disposed to clann that in this instance
at any rate the scripts transcended the limits of human
foresight. Yet such a claim can hardly be substantiated
in view of the fact that the late Sir Cecil Spring-Rice
placed on record his conviction that Germany would
make war shortly after the completion of the Kiel
Canal. 1 It was on June 23 and 24, 1914, that the
deepened and widened Canal was formally reopened.^
Five weeks later Europe was at war, and Sir Cecil
^ How easy it is to be prescient after the event is shown by tlie first
of the two following extracts from Mr. James W. Gerard's My Four
Years in Germany (published in 1917), and how easy to forget one's
retrospective prescience by the second extract :
" If the Germans" long preparations for war were to bear any
fruit, countless facts pointed to the summer of 1914 as the time
when the army should strike that great and sudden blow at the
liberties of the world. It was in June, 1914, that the improved
Kiel Canal was reopened, enabling the greatest war ships to pass
from the Baltic to the North Sea (p. 61).
Yet, in spite of these " countless facts,'" Mr. Gerard can write later
thus :
" After my return from Kiel to Berlin a period of calm ensued.
No one seemed to think that the murders at Serajevo would have
any effect ujDon the world. The Emperor had gone North on his
yacht, but, as I believe, not imtil a certain line of action had been
agreed upon. Most of the diplomats started on their vacations.
Sir Edward Goschen, British Ambassador, as well as the Russian
Ambassador, left Berlin. This shows, of course, how little war was
expected in diplomatic circles '"
(p. 86).
2 The exact date of the completion of the Kiel Canal cannot be stated
for the reasons given in the following extract from the Times of June 25,.
1914 :
" The Emperor's passage through the Canal to-day [June 24] was
of symbolical leather than practical significance, because, on the one
hand, even the latest German Dreacbioughts long ago used the
widened passage experimentallj' ;
while, on the other hand, it will
be a long time before all the work is finished."
Lxxxvii.] Concluding Remarks. 601
Spring-Rice's prediction was fulfilled to the letter. I
am not, of course, arguing that" the autoniatists arrived
at the approximate date of the outbreak of war by the
same method as did Sir Cecil Spring-Rice. My point
is that since it was possible for Sir Cecil Spring-Rice
to divine the date by normal processes of reasoning, it
would be hopeless to attempt to prove that the auto-
matists' forecasts were not arrived at in the same way. It
is all a question of degree. If, for instance, the scripts
had predicted years before that the War Avould begin on
or about Aug. 1, 1914, and that an armistice would be
signed on Nov. 11, 1918, that would have settled—for
most people, at any rate—the question of whether the
limits of normal insight and inference had been passed or
not. But the scripts of July 1914, in intimating that the
War is imminent, do not begin to approach such a
standard of definiteness as this.
(3) The evidence for the third class of prevision, i.e.
prevision of a particular incident not predictable seemingly
by ordinary processes of thought, is immensely inferior
both in quantity and quahty to the evidence for the first
class of prevision, and is inferior in quality to the evidence
for the second class of prevision. It consists of the
" Lusitama," the Fenchurch Street and the " Path-
finder " cases. The coincidences between these particular
references in Mrs. King's scripts and certain incidents in
the War may be fortuitous : in which case there is no
question of prevision. Different people, no doubt, will
form different views on the subject, as always happens in
cases where no mathematical theory of probabilities can
be applied. Speaking for myseK, however, although I
entertain a strong prejudice against the possibihty of this
kind of prevision, I do not feel that I can honestly
dismiss these three cases from my mind for good and aU
as mere chance-coincidences. I do not mean that, because
I cannot dismiss them, I accept them as exa,mples of
prevision. I mean only that, much as I should like to
play the esprit fort, I feel bound to suspend judgment.
But let us for a moment assume that the references in
King script to the Lxisitania, for instance, are really
602 J. G. Piddington. [part
evidence of prevision. I presume it is scarcely necessary
to point out how vastly greater are the theoretic diffi-
culties in the way of believing in the possibility of fore-
seeing such an event as the sinking of the Lusitania than
are the difficulties in the way of believing in the possi-
bility of foreseeing the War. To suppose that a particular
event like the sinking of the Lusitania can be definitely
foreseen more than a year before it occurs, seems almost
to commit us to a system of rigid determinism ; and
though determinism may be acceptable to some philo-
sophers and many Orientals, to most Europeans it is
repugnant. But for the sake of argument proceeding
still on the assumption that the sinldng of the Lusitania
was predicted in Mrs. King's script, let me venture to
suggest a possible way out of the dilemma :
It may be very difficult for the communicators to get a
reference to a particular subject inserted in the scripts ;
but once inserted, there seems to be little or no difficulty
in getting it repeated. Now there are only two " Lusi-
tania " references. Accordingly, if the comnumicators
really foresaw the future fate of the Lusitania, and
intended to furnish evidence of their foreknowledge by
means of these references, it is strange that they failed to
emphasise them by frequent repetition, as they do in the !
case of other important topics ; for they must have i
recognized that evidence of this kind of prevision is most
rare and of supreme interest. If, then, they really
possessed foreknowledge of this future event, why did they
thus restrict their references to it 1 It seems to me
worth suggesting that the reason for their reticence may
have been that although in February 1914 they foresaw
the sinldng of the Lusitania as a possibility or probability,
they recognized that circumstances might yet intervene to
prevent the contingency becoming a reality ; and con-
sequently thought it wiser to refrain from laying too
much stress on their prophecy. In the event of the -i
thing predicted not happening, their slight references to it
would present no great stumbling-block, for they would be
readily passed over as part of the dross from which the ^
gold of the scripts has to be sifted. Prediction of a
LXXXVII.] Concluding Remarks. 603
coming War stands on a different footing. In this case
they may have recognized that the forces tending to bring
it about were of such a character as to prechide the
possibihty of their being interfered mth, and had already
rendered the War a moral certainty. But recognizing
that the sinldng of the Lusitania was problematical, they
may have preferred not to risk a full-blown prophecy
about it.
If chance-coincidence be ruled out, another explanation
might be that the communicators were aware of the
design or desire of certain persons in Germany to attack
England's mercantile marine in the coming war, and that
they chose the Lusitania as a type or symbol of this
designed attack ; and that the tj^e happened to l^ecome
one of the realities. Other hypotheses could be invented,
no doubt ; but meanwliile the best course appears to me
to suspend judgment and to await fresh evidence of this
kind of prevision.
(4) I turn now to the fourth class of prediction. Each
of us can compare the script references to the War and
to the Lusitania with the events ; but none of us can
compare what the scripts predict about the eventual
outcome of the War with the event. In the first three
cases we may or not, as we choose, suspend judgment ;
in the fourth case we must. It is for this reason, in
part at any rate, that I have placed the ''
Utopian
"
predictions in a class by themselves. We may be im-
pressed by them, or we may smile at them ; but we
cannot judge them by the light of events. I have
separated them, however, from the other three classes for
other reasons as well. They differ from the "Lusitania"
class of prediction in two respects : by their general
character, and by the fact that they form the subject of
repeated and long-continued references. They differ from
the predictions of the War by their far greater improb-
ability. ^ The history of mankind is largely a history of
wars ; but the history of mankind contains no instance
of the realisation of a Utopia.
^ See footnote (1) on p. 649 above re Shelley's note on the last Chorus
in his Hellas.
604 J. G. Piddington. [part
Utopias have been the theme of poets and thinkers in
all ages. Nevertheless, and though " many prophets and
kings have desired to see these things," they " have not
seen them " : their aspirations have not been realised,
their dreams have not come true. The only test of the
truth of such foreshadowings is the future ; and so far
the future has always given them the lie. I am not, of
course, denying the advance of civilization ; but that
advance is painfully slow, and neither a continuance of
this slow advance, nor even a slight quickening of its
pace, could be held to fulfil the predictions in the scripts.
Nor can we escape the difficulty by assuming that the
communicators are merely portraying an ideal vision
designed to inspire men to noble efforts, but destined
never to be achieved in practice ; for that is not the
natural meaning of the scripts. Cryptic though much of
them is, full of symbolism though they are, sophistry
alone could thus whittle down their meaning, or could
extract from them anything short of this : namely, that
the War is the first act of a drama which is to culminate
in an unparalleled improvement in the condition of
mankind.
The scripts in general terms predicted the War : so did
many people. Some half-dozen scripts written between
July 9 and 21, 1914, predicted that the War was close at
hand : so a,lso, and earlier, had Sir Cecil Spring-Rice.
The scripts predict that the War will eventually lead to a
great improvement in international relations and social
conditions : so too tens of thousands of ordinary citizens
throughout the British Empire believed or hoped that the
Great War was, as the phrase went, " a war to end war."
But this last parallel between the predictions in the
scripts and the beliefs or aspirations that declared them-
selves with such strange ubiquity and intensity when war
broke out, is in truth only a superficial parallel ; for
whereas the wave of idealism that swept over the Empire
followed, or at best synchronised with, the beginning of
the War, for many years before August 1914 the scripts
had repeatedly combined predictions of a Utopia with
predictions of war, and had combined them in such a
LXXXVII.] Conchiding Bemarks. 605
manner as to imply that the one is to be the outcome of
the other. I know of no parallel to that. The writers,
the soldiers, the diplomatists, and the politicians who
forewarned us of the War, preached its dangers and its
horrors, but they did not tell us that this perilous and
horrible tragedy would yet prove to be the birth-throes
of a happier world. Nor did the propagandists of Hague
Conferences and other schemes for allaying international
rivalries warn us that a World-War must precede the
attainment of their desires. All alike predicted or feared
a coming Chaos : the scripts alone, so far as I know,
" spoke of a hope for the world m the coming Avars,"
and hailed the approaching Chaos as the prelude to a
new Kosmos.
The predictions of the War m the scripts cannot be
separated from tlie predictions of an eventual IHopia.
The scriiots do not say: "there will be a war," stop
there, and then start afresh and say :
" there will be a
Utopia."' They clearly imply that the Utopia v/ill result
from the War. Yet it cannot be said that the two com-
ponent parts of the whole prophecy stand or fall together,
because the predictions of War have been fulfilled ;
but
the fulfilment or the failure of the Utopian predictions
must eventually influence opinion as to the source of the
War predictions. Should the Utopia foreshadowed in the
scripts be translated into fact, it would be very difficult
to attribute the prediction of it as an outcome of the
War to ordinary human prescience ; and a strong case
would arise for admitting the claim made m the scripts,
and for giving the credit of the prediction to discarnate
beings. And if the Utopian predictions were held to be
the work of discarnate minds, in all probabihty the pre-
dictions of the War, which are so closely bound up A\ith
them, would be assigned to the same source.
June—August, 1922.
606 Element of Chance in Book-Tests. [PAET
ON THE ELEMENT OF CHANCE IN BOOK-TESTS.
Editorial Note.
In discussions and criticisms of the various Reports on
" book-tests,"" obtained at sittings with Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, whicli have aj)peared in the Proceedings and
elsewhere^, the question has more than once been raised
as to how far the results obtained might be attribut-
able to chance-coincidence. In view of the fact that
book-tests are by no means always successful and that
even where some measure of success is attained, the
success is not always of a precise and definite kind, but
such as to leave a good deal of scope for individual
interpretation, this question of chance-coincidence appears
to be deserving of careful enquiry. Probably most people
who have themselves received a successful book-test have
carried out that kind of rough and ready method of
enquiry which consists in searching for relevant matter
upon a given page of some dozen or twenty books taken
at random from their shelves, and have in consequence
formed the opinion that if the indications as to the
matter contained in the given passage are sufficiently
precise, chance %\ill give only a very small measure of
success. But these rough and ready methods will not
take us far where the cj[uestion is one of statistics and
percentages. The enquiry must be conducted more
systematically and over a wider field.
It was with this object that the experiments with which
we are here concerned were devised, and we take this
opportunity of thanking those of our members who
participated in them. We have also particularly to thank
1 See, e.g., Proc. S.P.E., Vol. XXXI., p. 241 ff. ; The Earthen Vessel,
by Pamela Glencomier ; Some New Evidence for Human Survical, by
the Rev. Charles Drayton-Thomas.
LXXXVII.] Element of Chance in Book-Tests. 607
Colonel C. E. Baddeley, C.B., C.M.G., who undertook the
considerable labour of analysing the results and drawing
up a table of percentages indicating the degree of success
or failure which was obtained.
It has to be observed that the statistical method as
applied to such experiments as these, presents certain
obvious limitations and diliiculties. We have no absolute
standard by which success can be measured, as we have,
for example, in the guessing of numbers or cards from a
pack. A comparison of the various records sent in to
us by experimenters showed considerable variations in the
standard by which the results had been judged. In one
record, for example, a result would be tabulated as a
" complete success " and in another a very similar result
would be tabulated as only a " partial success."
One of the tasks, therefore, which fell to Colonel Baddeley'
s
lot was that of approximating all the records, so far as might
be, to one standard, and with a view to comparing the
resrdts obtained in these experiments with those obtained
at sittings with Mrs. Leonard it was important to know
whether his standard had been the same as that adopted
by Mrs. Sidgwick in judging the Leonard book-tests. We
therefore submitted to Mrs. Sidgwick Colonel Baddeley's
tabular analysis together wdth a number of representative
specimens selected from the records sent in by our
members and asked for her opinion as to how the method
followed by Colonel Baddeley compared with her own.
l^pon this point Mrs. Sidgwick writes as follows :
I have gone through the " sham ""
book-tests you sent with
care. My impression is that I agree very much with Colonel
Baddeley's estimates and generally think his revision sound on
the whole, though he tends to allow things to count too much.
This, however, is a fault on the right side for our present
purpose. ... I have tried to compare the standard here
with the one on which I made my calculations in the real
book-tests. It is not very easy because the things one has
to judge of vary so much, and the real tests include so many
rather indefinite things ; but on the whole I think my standard
was higher than that we have applied here. But, as before
608 Element of Chance in Book-Tests. [part
remarked, that is a fault on the right side [since it tends to
increase the efficacy of mere chance in giving positive results].
It will be seen from this statement of Mrs. Sidgwick's
that since her standard, as she tells us, was rather higher
than that of Colonel Badcleley, we might expect—if the
results in both cases were attributable to chance alone
—
that the percentage of success recorded in her report on
the Leonard book-tests would be rather smaller than the
percentage of success in the records now under considera-
tion. But, as the figures which we give below (p. 614)
will indicate, this was not the case.
Mrs. Sidgwick refers in the paragraph quoted above to
another difficulty which meets us in our enquiry. In the
Leonard book-tests the indications given as to the nature
of the message to be looked for vary greatly in precision,
and therefore the degree of success easily attributable to
chance varies also. In the present experiments we tried
to meet this difficulty to some extent by giving three
tests of varying degrees of precision. The first test was
such as to leave considerable scope for individiial inter-
pretation ; the second left less to interpretation, but was
of such a nature that a good many passages might be
found which in one way or another would fulfil the
specified requirements ; the third test was definite in
character and not such as would be easily fulfilled. As
was to be expected, the percentage of success was con-
siderably lower in the third test than in either of the
other two.
Detailed Report of the Experiments on Chance.
The following instructions were sent to all who took
part in the experiment, together with a short covering
letter (not printed here) setting before them the object of
the experiment.
Instructions.
Choose ten books at random, and enter their names on the
attached form.
I
Lxxxvii.] Element of Chance in Book-Tests. 609
Then open the enclosed cover, in which you will find the
three messages chosen, together mth the page and position
on the page on which the messages are to be sought.
Against each book, and in a separate column for e^ch test,
enter the result as :
" success " ;
" partial " ;
or '•
nil."
In the case of success, or partial success, wite under
" remarks " such portion of the test and such brief explanation
as will serve to elucidate the success.
Enclosed in a separate envelope with the above in-
structions were the three tests. Experimenters were
particularly requested not to open this envelope until they
had selected their books, so that they might not be
influenced in this selection by any conscious or sub-
conscious knowledge concerning the contents of the books
and the likelihood of references to the subjects of the tests.
The list of tests was as follows :
Test 1. A passage which is particularly relevant to your
father.
Toj) quarter of pacje 60 in each hook.
Test 2. An allusion to circles of some kind.
Bottom half of page 35 in each book.
Test 3. Frost and snow, or a passage conveying that idea.
The top ten lines of page 84 in each book.
Sixty people took part in the experiment, and it will
be noted that they were asked to choose ten books and
to search for each of the three tests in a specified part
of each book. In aU therefore eighteen hundred passages ^
were examined, six hundj-ed for each test.
The table which is given below indicates the percentage of
successes (complete or partial) and of failures which were
obtained with each of the three tests. The figures given
here are in accordance with Colonel Bacldeley's revised
1
In giving this number we do not take into accomit that in six cases
the same book was chosen by two persons and in one case by three
persons, a circumstance which does not affect calculations as to the degree
of success attributable to chance.
610 Eleinent of Chance in Book-Tests. [part
estimate which—as is indicated above—differed in some
cases from the estimate of the experimenters themselves.
In particular, experimenters sometimes reckoned as com-
plete successes results which according to Colonel Badde-
ley's standard, and still more according to the standard
apphed by Mrs. Sidgwick to the Leonard book-tests, can
only be reckoned as partial successes. In the Appendix
to this paper we have given some of these results in
detail, showing the effect of Colonel Baddeley's revision,
so that readers may judge this matter for themselves.
Table of Percentages.
For the purpose of calculating these percentages the
results were divided into four classes :
(1) Comj^lete
success, (2) partial success, (3) slight success, (4) failure.
The table shows the percentages obtained (a) of complete
successes (S), (b) of complete and partial successes (S -hP),
(c) of complete, partial and slight successes (S-t-P+P?).
The figures are given first for each test separately and
then for the average of the three tests taken together.
Test I.
(A passage which is 'particularly relevant to your father.)
Number of passages examined. Results. Percentages.
600 S - - 9 1-5
S+P - - 27 4-5
S+P + P I - 50 8-33
Test 11.
{An allusion, to circles of some hind.)
Number of passages examined. Results. Percentages.
600 S - - 15 2-5
S+P - - 41 6-83
S+P + P 'I - 66 110
Lxxxvii.] Element of Chance in Book-Tests. 611
Test III.
(Frost and snoiv, or a passage conveyitig that idea.)
Number of passages examined. Results. Percentages.
600 S -~ - 10
S+P - - 17
S+P + P ? - 22
1- 67
2- 83
3- 67
Tests L, II. and III. combined.
Nximber of passages examined. Results. Percentages.
1800 S - - 34
S+P - - 85
S+P+P? -138
1-89
4-72
7-67
There are certain peculiarities in these results to which
it seems worth while to call attention. In the first place
it will be seen that all the percentages are higher in the
case of the second test. This can be explained by the
fact that there are many things which in one way or
another convey the idea of a circle. The reference may
be explicit as, e.g. " a small circular mirror," " encircled
. . . the circular shield,"' and such passages are reckoned
as full successes. But there may also be allusions to
circular objects, such as signet rings and cogwheels, and
these are reckoned as partial successes.
In regard to the third test two points may be noted.
Firstly, it is the only one of the three tests in which
the effect of Colonel Baddeley's revision has been to
increase (in a very slight degree) the percentage of suc-
cesses (S). The relevant figures are given below :
Percentage as received. Revised percentage.
Test I. - 2-5 1-6
Test II. - 3-63 2-5
Test III. 1-17 1-67
612 Element of Chance in Book-Tests. [part
This increase in the percentage is due to the circum-
stance that in three cases (see Appendix) Colonel Baddeley
reckoned as full successes results which experimenters had
reckoned only as partial successes. ;
Secondly, the percentage of partial and slight successes
(P + P ? ) is very mucli less in the case of the third test
than in either of the other two. The relevant figures are
given in the table below :
Percentage as received. Revised percentage.
Test I. - 717 6-83
Test II. 8-17 8-5 '
Test III. 2-83 2-0
This circumstance can be explained by the fact that
the idea of frost and snow, being of a quite definite
character, hardly admits of such vague and doubtful
references as were reckoned " slight successes " in the
case of the other tests. We have here a good example
of how much the evidential value of book-tests may vary
in proportion to the precision with which the subject of
the message has been indicated.
We may now turn to a comparison between the results
observed in the present experiments and those of the
Leonard book-tests, as examined by Mrs. Sidgwick ; but
in making this comparison one peculiarity of the Leonard
results must l)e taken into account. Ostensibly these
results come from a considerable number of different
communicators (over thirty), and some communicators
appear to have a much greater success in carrying out
l^ook-tests than others. Consequently the percentage of
success will be found to be considerably lower if we take
all the book-tests into account than if we consider only
those which i^urport to come from particularly siiccessful
communicators
.
This individual element is one which must be
reckoned with in any comparison we make between the
LXXXVII.] Element of Chance in Book-Tests. 613
Leonard tests and the present experiments in chance
-
coincidence, because if chance were the only factor in the
Leonard results also, there would be no reason why one
communicator should have more success than another.
To make a fair comparison it will be best to give figures
showing the percentage of success obtained (a) by taking-
all the tests, {h) by taking only those which came from
certain particularly successful communicators. We need
not here concern ourselves with the problem as to whether
book-tests do in fact derive from the purporting com-
municators, or whether they might be explained in some
other way, e.g. by clairvoyance on the part of the medium.
The important point for our present purpose is that
tests given in association with one supposed communicator
show a much higher percentage of success than those
given in association with another.
In a footnote to her paper on book-tests {Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. XXXI., pp. 245, 246) Mrs. Sidgwick writes as
follows :
There were 34 sitters whose book-tests were verified . . .
These sitters had amongst them 146 sittings at which book-
tests were given, and at these sittings about 532 separate
book-test items occurred . . . Tliese 532 items may be classed
as 92 successful ; 100 approximately successful ; 204 complete
failures ; 40 nearly complete failures ; 96 dubious. Taking
the first two classes together we may say that almost 36 per
cent, of the attempts were approximately successful.
" The first two classes " referred to by Mrs. Sidgwick
may be taken as corresponding with those results in the
present experiments which have been classed as S (success)
and P (partial success). From the table given above
(p. 611) it will be seen that taking the combined results
of the three tests the percentage of S 4-P was 4-7, so
that the whole number of book-tests examined by Mrs.
Sidgwick show a percentage of complete or partial suc-
cesses very considerably greater than the percentage
obtained in the present experiments, 36 per cent, as
compared with 4-7 per cent. But the balance is even
614 Element of Chance in Book-Tests. [part
more definitely in favour of the Leonard results, if we
consider the tests given by certain individual communi-
cators. The following table gives the percentage of
success obtained (a) in the three experimental tests, (b) in
the tests given by three successful communicators whom
we will call X, Y and Z.
No. of Results
examined.
S. S + P. S + P + P ?
[a) Experimental
tests.
(Aggregate Results) 1800 L89 4-72 7-67
{b) Leonard tests.
Communicator X - 283 L5-5 37-9 56-1
r - 64 20-3 47-0 70-0
z - 22 63-6 68-2 77-2
All communicators - 532 17-2 36 54-
1
To make the test still more crucial it would doubtless
have been an advantage if we could have had a larger
number of Leonard tests submitted to us. But, as it is,
the net was spread fairly ^vdde. The total number of
results examined by Mrs. Sidgwick, 532, is not far short
of the number of results examined in regard to each of
the three experimental tests, 600, and the percentages
given in the table above show that even if we include in
our reckoning a considerable number of comparatively
unsuccessful communicators, the percentage of success is
much higher in the Leonard tests than in the chance
experiments.
Lxxxvii.] Element of Chance in Book-Tests. 615
0
APPENDIX.
We give below five specimen results together with the
remarks made by the experimenters and Colonel Badde-
ley's comments, so that the readers may judge of the
standard applied.
I.
No. Name of Book. Test I. Test II. Test III.
1 Gibbon's Roman Em-
pire, Vol. 2 (Frowde)
Nil Nil Nil
2 Leacock's Literary
Lapses
Partial (1) Partial (3) Nil
3 Wm. M'Dougairs Body
and Mind
Nil Nil Nil
4 Darwin's Descent of
Man
Nil Nil Nil
5 Matthew Arnold's
Poems
Nil NH Nil
6 Emerson's English
Traits and Repre-
sentative Men
Success (2) Nil Nil
7 Macaulay's Essays and
Lays of Ancient Rome
Nil Nil Nil
8 Swift's Battle of the
Books
Nil Nil Nil
9 Plato's Works, Vol. 3
(Bohn)
Nil Nil Nil
10 Sir Ohver Lodge's
Electrons
Nil Nil Success (4)
Remarks by the Experimenter.
(1) Reference to illness and " October, 1910." My
father died in October (1897).
(2) Reference to Mme de Stael, Bonaparte and Welling-
ton's Peninsular Campaign. My father read a good deal
of French history and literature.
(3) Reference to signet rings which are circular.
(4) Reference to C. T. R. Wilson's experiment, pre-
616 Element of Chance in Book-Tests. [part
cipitating " a definite and known quantity of aqueous
vapour in a visible form." But " fog " or " rain " would
have been more apposite than frost and snow.
Comment by Colonel Baddeley.
Test I., Book 2. Quotes illness and October, 1910.
Experimenter's father died in October, 1897. A very
doubtful "partial."
Test I., Book 6. About Mme de Stael, Bonaparte and
the Peninsular Campaign. His father used to read a
good deal of French literature and history. Given as a
" success," allusion too remote, I revise as " partial."
Test III., Book 10, " precipitating a definite and known
quantity of aqueous vapour in a visible form." Given as
a " success." I retain it, but I consider it very doubtful.
II.
No. Name of Book. Test I. Test 11. Test III.
1 Quee7i Victoria, by
Lytton Strachey
Nil Nil Nil
2 Simon the Jester, by
W. J. Locke
Nil Partial (1) Nil
3 Naval Occasions, by
Bartimaeus
Nil Nil Nil
4 Life of R. L. Steven-
son, by Graham Bal-
four
Nil Nil Nil
5 Septimus, by W. J.
Locke
Nil Success (2) Nil
6 Psychic Phenomena,
by T. J. Hudson
Nil Nil Nil
7 Mrs. Marden, by
Robert Kitchens
Nil Nil Nil
8 John Charity, by
H. A. Vachell
Nil Nil Nil
9 The Vital Choice, by
D. Forster
Nil Nil Not 84 pages
in this book
10 In Quest of an Ideal,
by E. Holmes
Nil Nil Nil
Lxxxvii.] Element of Chance in Book-Tests. 617
Remarks by Experimenter.
(1) Rather more than half-way clown the page are the
words " the lady of the circus."
(2)
" To have cogwheels instead of corpuscles must be
very trying."
Go7nment hy Colonel Baddeley.
Test 11., Book 5. "To have cogwheels instead of
corpuscles," I revise as " partial."
III.
No. Name of Book. Test I. Test II. Test III.
1 The Reluctant Lover,
Uy IVl iVclllia.
Nil Success (2) Nil
2 Herodotus. Oxford
Texts
Nil Nil Nil
3 English Monastic Life,
by Gasquet
Nil Nil Success (4)
4 Short Fiscal History
of England, by Read
Partial (1) NU
5 Uncensored Celebrities,
by Raymond
NU Nil NU
6 Niimberg. Mediaeval
Towns Series
Nil Nil NU
7 English Utilitarians,
by Leslie Stephen
NU Nil Success (5)
8 English Historical
Literature of 15th
Century, by Kings-
ford
Nil Nil NU
9 Notes on a Cellar Book,
Saintsbury
NU Success (3) NU
10 Poems and Ballads,
2nd Series, by Swin-
burne
Nil Nil NU
618 Element of Chance in Book-Tests. [part
Remarks by Experimenter.
(1) "In moving for a Committee of the Lords, Lansdowne
ventured to indicate ..." My father, while official short-
hand writer to the House of Lords, attended many of their
Committees, but not, of course, the one referred to (1821).
(2) " They were to found a brotherhood of Samurai,
and their mission should be to offer the example of a
new way of life." Undoubtedly " a circle of some kind."
(3)
" Back vintages from 70 onwards," the o being a circle.
(4) In describing the duties of kitchen servers it is said
" if there were a frost they had to provide basins of hot water."
(5) Line 2, "to say that snotv is white . . . simply means
that certain sensations of colour are excited in us by snow."
Comment by Colonel Baddeley.
Test I., Book 4. Sent in as " partial," but I think it
good enough to count as a " success."
Test II., Book 1. This is returned as a " success," but
the allusion to a circle is very indefinite and I have revised
it as " sUght."
IV.
No. Name of Book. Test I. Test II. Teat III
1 The Rescue, by Conrad P. 60 blank Success (1) Nil
2 Oxford Book of Eng-
lish Verse
Nil NH Nil
3 The Voyage Out, by
Woolf
Nil Partial (2) Nil
4 Mommsen's Rome,
Vol. IV.
Nil Nil Nil
5 Vorlesungen, by Freud Nil NU Nil
6 Elf Einakter, by
Strindberg
Nil Nil Nil
7 Life's Handicap, by
Kipling
Nil Nil Nil
8 Revolte des Anges, by
France
Nil Nil Nil
9 Creevey Papers, Vol. I. Nil Nil NU
10 Blindman, E. Col-
burne Mayne
Nil Blank page Nil
Lxxxvii.] Element of Chance in Book-Tests. .
619
Remarks by the Experimenter.
(1) Test II.
' The semi circular couch " . . .
" en-
circled " . . .
" the circular shield."
(2) Test II. " a ball of thistledown."
The Conrad passage is really remarkable. The first of
the three circles is exactly half-way down the page, the
next about three-quarters and the last 6 lines from the
bottom.
V.
No. Name of Book. Test I. Test II. Test III.
1 Cousin Trix, by
Georgina Craik
Nil Nil Nil
2 Fair Maid of Perth,
by Scott
Partial (1) Nil NU
3 Lost Empires of the
Modern World, by
W. F. Lord
Nil Nil Nil
4 Strand Magazine, Vol.
XVI.
Nil Success (5) Nil
5 The Making of Eiig-
land
Nil Nil Nil
6 Catalogue of the
London Library,
A-K
Partial (2) Nil Nil
7 Grove's Dictionary of
Music, T-Z
Nil Nil Nil
8 Transactions of the
Monumental Brass
Society, Vol. V.
Success (3) Nil NU
9 Practical Astronomy,
by CampbeU
Nil Partial (6) Nil
10 The Royal Readers,
No. 4
Partial (4) Nil Nil
Remarks by the Experimenter.
(1)
" He has too early lost a father."
(2) 1899, the date of my father's death, occurs three times.
620 Element of Chance in Book-Tests, [part lxxxvii.]
(3) Description of brass monument with 4 shields, one
in each corner, and marginal inscription round slab. My
father's gravestone has a brass which is similar in these
respects. The brass described was to a man with 4 sons
and 3 daughters. My father had three daughters, but
only 2 sons.
(4) Description of pearl fishing ;
my father was a keen
fisherman.
(5)
" a small circular mirror."
(6) Allusions to zenith, distance and seconds of arc.
Comment by Colonel Baddeley.
Test I., Books 6 and 10, returned as " partial," but
revised " slight."
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXXVIII.
JULY, 1923.
AN EXPERIMENTAL STUDY OF THE APPRECIATION
OF TIME BY SOMNAMBULES.
By Sydney E. Hoopee, M.A.
It is now well known that certain subjects, after passing
out of the hypnotic state, do not remember anything
that they have done or that has been said to them
during their trance. Notwithstanding this amnesia, how-
ever, they will in their waking state, and sometimes
during their normal sleep, carry out suggestions made to
them in the trance with remarkable fidelity, fulfilling
them at the correct time with surprising accuracy. The
interestmg thing about such achievements by some
nambules is that at first sight they appear to have the
faculty of appreciating the passage of time without the
aid of the perception of changes in the external world.
For example, one of Dr. Bramwell's patients was told
whilst in the hypnotic state to make a cross and write
down what she judged to be the time after the expira-
tion of a certain number of minutes without, or at least
before, consulting a time-piece. The time-intervals m
the experiments varied from 320 minutes to 21,434
minutes. Out of a total of 55 experiments, 26 were
fulfilled in the waking state, 15 in hypnosis, 13 in natural
2e
622 Sydney E. Hooper, 31.A. [PABT'
sleep, only one being doubtful. Discrepancies occurred in
9 instances, but the errors ranged from 1 to 5 minutes
only. When asked in hypnosis how these achievements
were effected, the subject informed Dr. Bramwell :
^
(1) That when the suggestions were made in hypnosis
she did not calculate when they fell due.
(2) That she did not calculate them any time after-
wards during hypnosis.
(3) That she had no recollection of them when hypnosis
terminated.
(4) That no memory of them ever afterwards awoke
in her waking state.
(5) That shortly before their fulfilment she always
experienced a motor impulse
—
i.e. her fingers moved
as if to grasp a pencil and to perform the act of
writing.
(6) That this impulse was immediately followed by the
idea of making a cross and writing certain figures.
(7) That she never looked, at clock or ivatch until after
she had made her record.
Now, normally, it is by means of certain changes
regularly occurring in the world in which we live, such
as the Earth's revolution roinid the sun, the rotation of
the Earth on its axis, the revolution of the moon round
the Earth, that we are able conventionally to divide
'
time's continuous flow '
into years, months, days. We
also employ for our convenience certain mechanisms like
the clock or watch, which are devised in such a way as
to produce movements over tracts of space at a constant
velocity, to assist us in subdviding the passage of time
into smaller intervals. There could be no apprehension of
what we call '
Time '
were it not for the fact of change.
The cycle of the seasons, the alternation of the phases
of the Moon from new to full and its subsequent decline,
the alternation of day and night, the movements of the
hands of the clock, all fiirnish examples of the changes
taking place in the world, through which we apprehend
^ J. Miine BramwelFs Hypnotism, its History, Practice and Thewy^
pp 122-123.
Lxxxvni.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnamhules 623
the passage of time. Days, hours, mimites, seconds, are
devices for measuring the number of sensory chaiages
experienced in succession, and " Time Psychological
datum is but a quality of our sensations and feelings."
Thus, awareness of change in our sensory presentations is
a necessary condition of our perception of time.
If, then, no calculations as to when the suggestions
fell due were made by Dr. BramwelFs subject, and if,
further, no watching or noting of the regular planetary
movements and the movements of clocks or watches
took place to measure the passage of time, then it would
seem that a somnambule possesses what might be called
an intuitive '
knowledge of the flight of time, and is
not dependent, as normally we are, upon changes takmg
place in the world and upon mechanisms for measuring
such changes.
It will be admitted that if this is the case, then it is
a very remarkable mental endowment, and its discovery
of great interest to the Science of Psychology ; con-
sequently, in the hope of learning the truth of the matter,
I began an experimental investigation in the winter of
last year. Fortunately, in the course of my professional
work, I became acquainted with two somnambules, who
were kind enough to submit themselves to a series of
experiments. One of the subjects, " Miss E.,'" is em-
ployed as a clerk in the City, and during the time covered
by the investigations w"as a student in a class studying
Psychology, of which I am the Tutor. The other subject,
" Mrs. L.," who Hves in the country not far from my
home, is a lady of keen intellectual interests, endowed
mth considerable powers of literary imagination and
expression.
I began my investigations with experiments on " Miss
E.," the nature and results of which I now proceed to
give.
Subject 1. ''Miss E."
The first two experiments I regard as a test : these
proving satisfactory, the work was continued at regular
intervals.
624 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
Miss E. showed herself to be a genuine somnambule,
having no remembrance in her normal waking state of
suggestions made to her during hypnosis. Two points
should be noted at the outset :
1. That all the suggestions were made when the subject
was in the hypnotic state.
2. That she was not told the exact time at which the
suggestions were given.
No. 1. "Just before getting into bed Avrite down the time
without looking at your watch."
Result. Correct. The following week when the Class
met Miss E. told me she felt an impulse to do
this at two minutes to eleven, and handed me a
piece of 23a];)er on which this time was Avritten.
By comparing this ^\'ith her A\'atch she found that
it agreed exactly.
No. 2. Tue.sday, February 1st, 1922.
" Draw a triangle and a square at 11.45 a.m. on
Wednesday."
Result. Correct. Miss E. brought me the following
Tuesday a piece of paper with the figures duly
drawn and 11.45 a.m. written underneath.
No. 3. February 7th, 1922. Suggestion given at 8.5 p.m.
Due 11 p.m.
" At the expiration of 175 minutes write down the
time Avithout looking at a clock or watch."
Result. Miss E. wrote " I felt I had to find out a
time, and just shrugged my shoulders and said
five past eleven. Then some time after a noise
arrested my attention, and on looking at my
watch I found it was five minutes past eleven."
Remarks. If the suggestion was given exactly at
8.5 p.m. there is an error of five minutes. It
is interesting to note, however, that Miss E.
'
shrugged her shoulders and said five minutes
past eleven,' '
some time '
before. She told me
she meant by this a few minutes.
Lxxxviii.] The Ajypreciatioii of Time by Somnamlndes 625
No. 4. Tuesday, February 14th, 1922. 8.9 p.m. Due 11 a.m.,
February 15th.
" At the expu-ation of 891 mimites draw a diamond
and put down the time."
Result. Miss E. -wrote, " I decided to write dowTi
the time three minutes to eleven, and on looking
at my watch the actual time A\'as two minutes
to eleven o'clock."
Remarks. By my watch the suggestion should have
been fulfilled exactly at eleven o'clock. The
diamond was not drawn. I think we may
say that the difference between the subject's
decision, '
three minutes to eleven,' and the actual
time, two minutes to eleven, may be ignored if
allowance be made for the slight variations in
'
clock time.' The only question of importance
is why she decided to write '
three minutes to
eleven '
instead of eleven. Did she '
guess '
it
was 8.6 p.m. instead of 8.9 p.m. when the sug-
gestion was given ?
No. 5. Wednesday, February 15th, 1922. 6.30 p.m. Due
10.30 a.m., February 16th.
" At expiration of 960 minutes draw a diamond
and write down the time."
Result. Correct. A piece of paper with a diamond
on it and the time 10.30 a.m. was handed to me
on the following Tuesday.
No. 6. Tuesday, February 21st, 1922. 10.7 p.m. Due 10.7
p.m., February 23rd.
" At expiration of 2880 minutes draw a square and
write the time in it."
Result. Square drawn with 10.2 written inside.
Note. An error of five minutes was made in this
instance, if my entry of the time was strictly
accurate. I am not, however, certain on this
point. Again, the question whether the time at
which the suggestion was given was '
guessed
'
wTongly is relevant.
626 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
No. 7. Tuesday, February 28th, 1922. 8.10 p.m. Due 8.10
p.m., March 3rd.
" At expiration of 4320 minutes draw a diamond and
put down the time."
Result. Error of three minutes. Diamond drawn with
8.13 p.m. written inside. Here, again, did she
guess the time at which the suggestion was given
as 8.13 p.m. instead of 8.10 ?
No. 8. Tuesday, March 7th, 1922. 9.5 p.m.
" At expiration of 420 luinutes put down the time.
Due 4.5 a.m., March 8th.
" At expiration of 1860 minutes put down the time.
Due 4.5 a.m., March 9th.
" At expiration of 3300 minutes put down the time.
Due 4.5 a.m., March 10th.
" At exjiiration of 4740 minutes put down the time.
Due 4.5 a.m., March 11th.
Remarks. No result. All these suggestions fell due
when Miss E. would normally be asleep.
No. 9. (a) Tuesday, March 14th, 1922. 8.15 p.m. Due
Friday, March 17th, 8.15 p.m.
(6) Tuesday, March 14th, 1922. 8.15 p.m. Due
Sunday, March 19th, 8.15 p.m.
(a) At expiration of 3600 minutes write down time.
{b) „ „ 6480
Result. The subject was correct in carrying out
suggestion (ff), no attempt, however, was made to
perform (6).
No. 10. Wednesday, April 5th, 1922. 7 p.m. Due 7 p.m.,
April 10th.
" At expiration of 7200 minutes write down the time
inside a square."
Result. Miss E. wrote me a letter on April 11th
enclosing a piece of paper with a square drawn on
it and 7.10 p.m. written by the side. She
remarked :
"'
I actually drew the square at
7.10 p.m. I distinctly had the inclination to do
0
ixxxvni.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnambiiles 627
so at 6.45 p.m., but I was washing up at the time
and simply had to finish."
Remarks. If 6.45 be taken as the time when the
impulse was '
virtually '
fulfilled, there is an error
of 15 minutes, but Miss E. did not actually
fulfil the suggestion until 7.10 p.m. In this case
there would be an error of 10 minutes, but I am
not quite certain, within ten minutes, when the
I suggestion was made, as it was a long sitting,
during which I performed several other experi-
ments. It is to be noted that this is the only
experiment in which there is any appreciable
discrepancy between the actual time at which she
felt the impulse and the time written down.
There was a break of three months before further
experiments dealing with any considerable periods of
time were conducted on Miss E. Up to April, I covild
not boast of having obtained any insight into the actual
mental processes involved in the fulfilment of the sug-
gestions. I was profoundly puzzled. I had frequently
asked Miss E. in hypnosis whether she made calculations,
and she assured me on each occasion in the negative.
When requested to say how she did the tasks set her,
she replied that she did not know. All she could
say was that when the figures were given to her, she
"'
saw ' them very clearly and that she wrote down the
time when she felt an impulse to do so. So far, then,
I had evidence only of subliminal mental activity. But
of its nature and modus operandi, neither I nor the
subject knew anything. Could it be that somnambules
possessed a super-normal power of apprehending the
passage of time '
intuitively '
? I coidcl not say.
It was at this juncture that your President, Dr.
Mitchell, kindly lent me his -
illuminating paper to this
Society on the subject,^ which stimulated me to make
iurther investigations. About this time also I met my
second subject, Mrs. L., and began a series of experi-
1 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. : The Appreciation of Time hy Somnambules.
Froc. S.P.R. Vol. XXI., pp. 2-59.
628 Sydney E. Hooper, 31.A. [part-
ments with her. Profiting by the valuable work already
accomplished by Dr. Mitchell, I was able to glean in
hypnosis from Mrs. L. information which helped me con-
siderably when I resumed my experiments in September
with Miss E. I will deal with these later experiments
now before proceeding to the other work which I had.
done in the interim.
There seemed at this stage to be two problems demand-
ing, if possible, a solution.
1. If no calculations were made, how was it possible
for the subject to know when a period of time
represented by so many hundreds or thousands of
minutes would elapse ?
2. The second problem is closely related to, though
different from, the first. Assuming that the subject,
though unknown even to a certain stratum of her
hypnotic consciousness, calculated that a suggestion
to be performed in (say) 7670 mimites fell due at
9.10 p.m. on such and such a date, the question
still remained how the subliminal mind knew when
this time had arrived, unless it made use of the
normal waking mind to watch and '
tich off,' as it
ivere, the hours and, mimites as they passed.
It was in the hope of clearing up these two problems
that I conducted two further experiments on Miss E.
in September of this year. In these two experiments
I told Miss E. the time when I gave her the suggestion.
In the earlier ones I had not done this, and, as has
already been said, I am inclined to think this omission
was responsible for such small errors as occurred.
No. 11. Monday, September 11th, 1922. 7 p.m. Due 3.30
p.m., September 13th.
Suggestion in hypnosis. " At the expiration of 2670
minutes make a cross and put down the time
before looking at any time-piece."
I then asked her the time. She replied, " Ten
past seven." I told her she was wrong, and that
it was seven o'clock. This seems to bear out the
.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnambides 629
theory that Miss E. guessed the times at which
suggestions were given.
Result. Miss E. called on me on Thursday, September
14th, and handed me a piece of paper with 3.30
on it. She had wTitten it on feeling an impulse
at 3.25 p.m. on the Wednesday. vShe informed me
that she was in the office checking a column of
figures when suddenly she said. " 3.30 Mr.
.
Hooper." She did not look at the clock until
some seconds later. It was then just 3.25 p.m.
In reply to some further questions, she \vrote :
" You see I felt I had to tell you something, but
it was such a blank, vague feeling : a feeling
that I had forgotten to come to you, and I
couldn't recollect when I Avas to tell you, and
looked at the clock, expecting to find it too late
to keep our appointment. This feeling could
only have lasted a few seconds, so that it must
have happened some"\A"here near five-and-twenty
past three."'
Remarks. If the ofiice clock were right, there is an
error of five minutes in her estimate of the time
that had elapsed.
Further, I should like to say a word about
the '
vague ^ feeling that lasted for a few seconds
only. I cannot but surmise that this was caused
by the momentary emergence of the hypnotic
consciousness at the time she said, '"
Three-thirty
Mr. Hooper." We should expect, if this were
the certain temporary confusion of mind.
Moreover, I think this explains her feeling that
" I had forgotten to come to you," and the fact
that " I couldn't recollect when I was to tell you."
When I gave her the suggestion in hypnosis on
September 11th, I told her that next time she
saw me she would be able to tell me something
of her mental processes in fulfilling the suggestion,
and also that she would want to come and tell
me. This, I think, has something to do with
630 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
her looking at the clock and expecting to find it
too late to keep her appointment. Although her
hypnotic consciousness would know exactly Avhat
was said to her during the previous sitting, her
normal waking consciousness would not. Hence
a state of anxiety and confusion.
I was eager to try if I could discover any genuine
information concerning the method adopted by the subject
in fiilfilling the. suggestion given in this experijuent, and
following a hnit contained in Dr. Mitchell's paper, I put
her into a deeper state of hypnosis than usual. It will
be remembered that on all previous occasions she had
told me that no calculations were made, and that she
did not know how she was able to fulfil the suggestions
(for the most part) at the correct time. On this occasion,
however, when I asked her how she did this particular
sum, she replied :
" I remember making the calculation immediately after
the suggestion was given."
By this she meant during the time she was in hypnosis
on September the 11th. This I regarded as an important
statement. If a calculation were made in this case, why
not in the others 1 The performances of my somnambule
were assuming a less miraculous guise. I then told her
that when I piit my hand on her forehead she woiilcl be
able to tell me exactly the steps she took in making the
calculations. She at once told me she '
saw '
the figures
she had employed, and I asked her to write them down.
She wrote as follows :
60/2670
44 30
Here, then, we have the actual mental process. The
subject divided the number of minutes given in the sug-
gestion by 60, which gave her in hours, viz. 44i, the time
when the act was to be done. Thus, some level of her
subliminal mind knew soon after the suggestion was
given that it fell clue in forty-four and a half hours.
This is c^uite correct. Whether she actually carried the
calculation one step further, viz. that 44 hours 30 minutes
I.XXXVIII.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnamhules 631
from 7 p.m., September 11th, fell due at 3.30 p.m.,
September 13th, I did not discover.
I then asked her how she had known when the
terminal minute
—
i.e. the precise time for the performance
of the act—arrived. She replied at first, " It just came
up." Pressed to tell me how she knew when it fell
due, she replied, " I counted : I began counting from
7 o'clock when you gave me the number." When asked
what she counted, she replied, " Spaces." In reply to
the question as to the size of the spaces, she said, " Not
very big." Asked how she knew when a minute or an
hour had passed, she replied, " By a certain space."
Again asked to say how she knew when the terminal
minute had arrived, she said, " I simply went on counting
nntil it came to an end, and then I did it." Questioned
as to whether the co^^ntulg interfered with her waldng
mmd, she replied, " No, it seemed separate from my waking
mind." She further emphatically denied making use of
any clocks or watches in determining the correct time the
act was to be performed.
The result of this experiment I deemed of great value.
At least it seemed clear that in this instance calculation
was the method employed by the subliminal mind for
discovering, at any rate so far as the hours were con-
cerned, '
when ' the suggestion fell due. I was still,
however, uncertain as to what was involved in her method
of '
counting spaces.' What did a space stand for ? A
minute, an hour, or what ? Again, if she counted 60
spaces to the hour, how was she able to be so accurate
in her judgment of the intervals between her one, two,
three, etc., so that they corresponded with the actual
minutes of the clock 1 Another possibility suggested
itself to my mind. The counting of spaces may have
been her way of '
ticking off ' the 44 hours 30 minutes
that she had already calculated. Her sul)hminal mind
may have made use of her normal waking consciousness,
which would be in contact with the time of day, to
inform it of the hours and minutes as they passed, just
as the old-world watchmen informed the inmates of
dwelling-houses in the days of yore. At this sitting I
632 Sydriey E. Hooper, M.A. [part
could not decide these points to my satisfaction, and
I therefore determined to have a further meeting.
No. 12. Tuesday, September 26th. 9.15 p.m. Due 11.15 a.m.,
Thursday. September 28tli.
Suggestion. " At the expiration of 2280 minutes make
a cross and put down the time. Then compare
what you have put down with a cloclv."
Result. Miss E. handed me a piece of paper on the
evenmg of September 28tli, on whicli was written :
" 11.15 Thursday. 11.14 by the Oifice clock."
The cross was omitted. We may take this
experiment as correctly fulfilled, assuming that
the Office clock might be one minute slow.
Remarks. Although I considered the results of experi-
ment No. 11 had all but solved the '
mystery '
of
these time achievements, I was still in doubt on
one or two important items, and I hoped to be
able to clear up these questions at this sitting if
I could penetrate sufficiently deeply into the
mental processes of my subject's hyj)notic con-
sciousness. I therefore requested her to go into
a deep stage of hypnosis. Whilst she was in
this state I asked her if she remembered the
suggestion I had given her on Tuesday evening.
After some hesitation, she said. " I see the
mimber."
" Tell me what it is."'
Very slowly, and with apparent difficulty, she
replied, " 2270.
(The number actually given was 2280.)
I then asked her what this number reiDresented.
She replied, " Minutes."
I next made her tell me exactly how she had
carried out my suggestion. She said, " I found
out the hours." Asked to show me in writing,
she wrote down :
60/ 2270
38
xxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules 633
It is clear, then, that she arrived at the number
of hours, thirtjj-'eight, by division of 2280 by 60.
Thirty-eight hours is correct, and I feel confident
that she obtained this result hy dividing 22S0 by
60, and not 2270. For this reason : the subject
had some difficulty in actually "
visualising '
this
number when in deep hypnosis I asked her to
recall it ; and it is obvious, I think, that she
must have substituted seven for eight in the
revival.
So far, then, we have confirnied the information obtained
in the last experiment as to the method employed by the
subliminal mind. I was assured on both occasions that
the calculations were made as soon as the number was
given, i.e. when the subject was in hypnosis. It does
not, however, follow, I thmk, that in all the previous
experiments the calculations were made immediately the
numbers were given. Perhaps the more difficult cues
may have been made at some later time.
I now endeavoured to discover how my subject knew
when thirty-eight hours had elapsed, and how she cleter-
minea the arrival of the crucial minute when the act
was to be performed. Whilst she was still m deep
ihypnosis, I told her she would be able to tell me how
she knew when a minute and an hour had passed. She
said, " I started to count up to sixty." In reply to my
question as to what sixty represented, she said, " A
minute." " Well, then, Avhen you reached sixtj', v/hat
did you do ?
" She replied, " I did it again." What
then 1
" "I did it again," and so on. She then
informed me that she went on counting in this way
until she reached an hour, i.e. sixty times sixty, when
she began over again until she reached another hour, and
so on. " After I had done it thirty-eight times, I made
a cross." (The cross was in reality omitted.)
" Do you mean that you went on counting all the
time ?
" I asked. She replied, " Yes." " During the
time when you were asleep ?
" " Yes."
Asked how she knew that the intervals of her counting
634 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
corresponded exactly to a second, she replied, " It just
feels like that."
In reply to my query as to whether she ever checked
her counting by the clock, she answered emphatically,
" Never until after I have put it down."
I asked if this counting in any way interfered with
her normal waking life ; she replied, " No." Again
asked when she did the calculations, she said, " At once
"
and " I find it quite easy.""
Whereupon I gave her a test. " If you find the
calculations quite easy, write down when 5000 minutes
falls due from now, 6.15 p.m., Thursday 28th September."
The result of this was to disclose the fact that '
they
were not so easy '
after all—at least not all of them.
She wrote down :
5000
888 . 20
Then hesitated, and finally said, " I don't loiow when
it would fall due," and gave up the attempt. It will
be observed that the subject started to divide the 5000
by 60, but at once began to make mistakes. The answer
is 83 hours 20 minutes. Her failure in this test suggests
strongly to my mind that the success of her achieve-
ments in performing the acts at the right time was not
dependent upon her making the correct calculation m
hours immediately after the number of minutes was given.
In those cases where the number was easily mampulated
by the divisor 60, it may have been done at once. In
other cases the determination of the number of hours in
a given number of minutes was probably done at leisure
at some subsequent time.
After Miss E. had said, " I don't know when it would
fall due," I said, " What would you do if I told you
now to make a cross at the end of 5000 minutes ?
" To
this she rephed, " I should start counting." " Well, what
then ?
" "I should go on counting until I had nothing
left."
It seemed clear, then, that counting from the moment
the suggestion is given is the heart of her method. This
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnamhules 635
entails in long-time experiments a continuous counting
day and night into many thousands ; in the last experi-
ment. No. 12, it meant counting 136,800 intervals.
But how did Miss E. know that, in this last experiment,
11.15 a.m. was the correct time for fulfilling the sug-
gestion ? Neither the knowledge that the act was to be
done at the end of 38 hours nor the laborious work of
counting up to 136,800 woiild supply her with this
information. Two methods were at her disposal :
(1) Some level of her subliminal mind might have
carried the calculation a stage further, determining that
38 hours fell due at 11.15 a.m. on Thursday, September
the twenty-eighth. In this event, when she had finished
accurately counting out her thirty-eight hours, she would
know it was eleven-fifteen.
(2) The method of '
addition "
may have been employed.
I mean by this that after an hour had been counted.
through it could be added to the time at which the
suggestion was given, viz. 9.15 p.m., e.g., at the end of
one hour 10.15, two hours 11.15, and so on. This
process would have to be repeated at regular intervals
until the thirty-eight hours had been completed. Her
mind wovdd thus know the time throughout the period
of her counting. When she had counted out her
thirty-eight hours, she woidd then discern it was
eleven-fifteen, or indeed might even know this earher by
anticipation.
Feeling somewhat amazed that Miss E. performed these
experiments by what, m the normal waking life, would
be a very unreliable measure of the flow of time, viz.
counting, I gave her a few tests in hypnosis, both on the
evening of the 14th September and the 28th September,
as follows :
—
1. Time 6.44 p.m.
Suggestion. " At the end of six minutes hold up your
right hand."
Result. Hand held up at 6.53| p.m.
Error 3i minutes too long.
636 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
2. Time 7.20 p.m.
Suggestion. " At the end of five minutes hold up
left hand."
Result. Act pei'formed at 7.27 p.m.
Error, 2 minutes too long.
In reply to my question, " Did you count
spaces ?
" she rej)lied, " Yes." " How many ?
"
" Five."
'
Spaces '
are apparently minutes here instead
of seconds.
3. {a) 1 minute test. Error, 10 seconds over.
(6) 2 minute test. Error, 1 second over,
(c) 3 minute test. Error, 10 seconds over.
4. Time 6.29 p.m.
Suggestion. " Tell me exactly when six minutes have
elaj)sed."
Result. At 6. 40'. 40", she said, " six minutes."
Error, 20 seconds short.
5. Time 6.35 p.m.
Suggestion. " Wlien three minutes have gone."
Result. At 6.37 Miss E. said, "Now."
Error, 1 minute short.
6. Time 6.38 p.m.
Suggestion. " When four minutes have elapsed."
Result. At 6.41 Miss E. said, " Four minutes."
Error, 1 minute short.
Asked to illustrate by counting aloud, she
proceeded to count up to 60. Each interval on
this occasion was certainly meant to be a second.
These few experiments yielded a mean error of
61 '4 seconds. Whether if a sufficient number of
these tests had been made the plus and minus
results would have eventually neutralised each
other, I am not sufficient mathematician to be
able to say.
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules 637
Notwithstanding the errors in these few short tests,
I am compelled to accept the subject's statement, given
in deep hjrpnosis, that she performed the long-time
experiments by the method of counting, although I am
unable to say why she should have been so accurate m
the long intervals, whilst making discrepancies in the
short tests. I observe that Dr. Mitchell also found a
tendency to slight errors in the tests of short periods
made by him. In a series of 60 observations on various
subjects, with periods varying from one minute to half
an hour, the mean error was "89 minute.
Concluding Remarks on Subject 1.
It seems patent from the answers elicited from jVIiss E.
in deep hj^pnosis that calculation of the number of hours
represented by a given number of minutes, together with
rhythmic counting from the moment the suggestion was
given, was the method adopted in fulfilling them. This
involved that the process of counting should continue
both during normal sleep and diiring the performance of
ordinary everyday work. In this connection it is interest-
ing to note that on one occasion the counting of Miss E.'s
subliminal mind came to an end whilst she was adding
up a column of figures with, her supraliminal mind, the
latter in no way disturbed by the former. Another
feature that strikes me as remarkable is what may be
called the unruffled patience of the subliminal level of
the mind, wliich went on rhythmically counting 136,800
intervals m the last experiment Avithout complaint or
even boredom, showing a persistency of purpose worthy
ot a greater cause.
Still another feature to arouse v/onder is that of the
accuracy of the counting. It is no mean performance to
count continuously for thirty-eight hours, in such a manner
that the intervals between the digits one, two, three, etc.,
exactly correspond with the '
second '
intervals as recorded
by the clock. And yet this is implied in the informa-
tion supplied to me by Miss E. in deep hypnosis.
When after the experiments were over Miss E. was
informed that this seemed to be her method, she expressed
638 Sydney E. Hooper, 31.A. [part
great amazement, saying : "I could never count accurately
like that with my waking mind." Indeed, I do not
think she could, nor, I think, could anyone else.
Are we then to conclude that the subhminal mind of
Miss E. reveals a supernormal faculty of measurmg the
passage of time ? I do not see how we can reply in
any other way than by saying that at least the accuracy
of counting of the subhminal mind as disclosed by these
experiments is supernormal when compared with the
fiuprahminal. Few, I think, will disagree with this con-
clusion. We must be on our guard, however, against
confusing the term '
supernormal '
with supernatural.
There is nothing in the experiments to suggest that the
achievements of Miss E. were performed by any other
powers than those which belong to the domain of the
human mind. But '
how '
such precise correlation be-
tween the second as measured by the clock and the
counting by the mind prevails, is not revealed. My
subject could only say when asked how she knew that
the intervals between each count corresponded to a
second as measured by the clock, was :
" It just feels
like that."
It is on this point that Dr. Mitchell has made an
interesting suggestion. ^ He says : "It seems probable
that the lower strata of consciousness can take cognisance
of various organic processes which are, or may be, un-
perceived or generally unattended to by the waking self.
And if a correlation has been subconsciously estabUshed
between such phases of organic Ufe and our artificial
divisions of time, the subconscious watcher is pro-
vided with an objective time-measurer which is liable to
only slight variations of regularity. Such variations as
normally take place in the rate of the heart-beat, or of
respiratory movements, are just such as would account
for the inaccuracies exhibited by somnambules in their
estimates of short periods. In longer periods of true
time-watching the organic rhythm will usually average ite
normal rate, and consequently the amount of error in
1 The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules, hy T. W. aiitchell. M.D.,
Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXI., p. 58.
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Som'immhides 639
the time-estimation of the subject is not hkely to be
greater for half an hour than for five minutes."
Whether this ingenious hypothesis is the true explana-
tion of the achievements of Miss E. recorded in the above
experiments, I do not know. All one can say is, that
some correlation between the rate of counting and the
clock second obviously existed in the subliminal mind.
In what, however, the correlation exactly con^sisted, I am
unable to surmise.
Subject No. 2. " Mrs. L."
The experiments on Mrs. L. were begun in the Spring
of this year, and continued throughout the Summer.
At each sitting the subject was told the^j^time when
the suggestion was given.
No. 1. 7.15 p.m. Friday, March 10th. Due 10.15 a.m.,
Saturday, Marcli 11th.
Suggestion. " At the expiration of 900 minutes write
the time on a piece of paper before looking at
time-piece."
Result. Mrs. L. picked up her paper and pencil at
9.30 a.m., but said to herself, " The time due for
it to be done is 10.15 a.m."
Remarks. It is to be noted that three-quarters of an
hour before the act was due to be carried out.
the subject Itnew the time at which it was due.
No. 2. 7.15 p.m. Friday, March 10th. Due 7.15 p.m.,
Monday, March 13th.
Suggestion. " At the expiration of 4320 minutes put
down the time without looking at a time-piece."
Result. A piece of paper was handed to me with
"1.55 p.m., Monday," Avritten on it. This is the
wrong answer ; but 1.55 p.m. is correct for 4000
minutes. The subject evidently preferred round
figures, and ignored the odd 320, for when asked
later in hj^jnosis the number that had been
given to her, she rephed, " 4000."
640 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
No. 3. In hypnosis.
"It is now 12.30 p.m., June 8th. You will
tell me the answer to this sum immediately you
wake up. How many hours are there in 450
minutes and when do they expire as from now ?
I immediately woke the subject up.
Bephj. " Eight hours. Falls due 10.30."
Remarks. Both details are wrong. The correct answer
is 7 1 hours, falls due 8 ji.m.
I then re-hypnotised the subject, and asked,
" Were the replies to the sum correct ?
" She
replied, " No, I gave half an hour too much. It
is 1\ hours." Asked how she came to make the
mistake, she replied, " I calculated to the next
12.30. Twelve-thirty to twelve-thirty would be
twelve hours : two houi:s back would be 10.30."
I then asked, " Is 10.30 right ?
" She rephed,
"No, it falls due at 7.30." (Wrong, it should be
8 p.m.) I then said, " How did you come to
make the mistake ?
" Reply : "I had not
calculated completely."
I am not sure whether this sum was worked
out in hypnosis or after subject had been
awakened.
No. 4. June 8th. 12.40 p.m. Due June 12th, 5.16 a.m.
Suggestio7i. " At expiration of 5316 minutes make a
diamond and put down the time."
Result. Paper handed me dated June 11th, on which
a diamond and 9.50 were written. Wrong. In
hj^onosis she said, " I don't think it is right.
I believe I worked it out just before going to
sleep last Saturday night."
Remarks. Subsequent to the time of giving this
suggestion, but before it fell due, I asked the
.subject in hypnosis if she had any instructions
to follow out. She replied, " Yes, in 5325
minutes." (Note this is wrong, the number
being 5316.) " Do you know when the time falls
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnamhules 641
due?" "No." Obviously the latter reply shows
that no calculation had been made up to then.
No. 5. June 8th. 12.25 p.m. Due June 13th, 2.25 p.m.
Suggestion. " In 7320 minutes write down the time."
Result. On June 11th Mrs. L. wrote on a piece of
paper " 2.25 p.m." This is correct, as sub-
sequent enquiry revealed that " 2.25 p.m., June
13th " was meant. It is clear that, since the
result was written down two days before the
time fell due, a calculation must have been made.
Remarks. Questioned in hypnosis the day after the
suggestion was given, subject replied that she
did not know when the time of this particular
suggestion fell due. On June Uth, however, in
hypnosis she said, " It falls due on Tuesday
"
(correct), " but I don't knoAV what time." She,
however, some time later in the day wrote on a
piece of paper 2.25 p.m.—the correct time.
No. 6. June 9th. 3.8 p.m. Due 8.28 p.m., June 10th.
Suggestion. Sum given in hypnosis, to be written
down as soon as answer found. " When will 1760
miQutes fall due from now, 3.8 p.m. ?
"
Result. Mrs. L. handed me a piece of paper on the
mornmg of June 10th, upon which she had
written the previous evening, "8.15 p.m. to-
morrow " (June 10th). Wrong, it should be 8.28
p.m., June 10th.
Remarks. It is not unusual for the subject to sub-
stitute another number for the one actually given,
and calculate this instead.
No. 7. June 12th. 9.10 p.m. Due 11.50 p.m., June 19th.
Suggestio7i. " At expiration of 10.240 minutes make a
cross and put down the time."
Result. Mrs L. handed me a piece of paper on the
morning of June 20th on which was written
+2.55."
642 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
Wrong for 10,240, but practically right for
10,420.
She tolcl me at the time that she thought she
woke up sometime about da^wn to do this, but
was not certain that she wote it then.
Remarks. On June 16th in hypnosis I asked, " Have
you any suggestions to fall due in the future ?
"
" Yes." " What is it ?
" " 10,420." " When does
it fall due ?
" " Monday night."
I then told her to go into a deeper stage of
hypnosis and tell me how she did these sugges-
tions. She replied, " I calculate how many days
there are and do the details at some other time."
It will be observed that subject has again
substituted another number for the one given her,
viz. 10,420 in the place of 10,240. Even here
there is an error of five minutes, since 10,420
minutes from 9.10 p.m., June 12th, falls due at
2.50 a.m., June 20th—not at 2.55 a.m.
No. 8. June 16th. 5.20 p.m. Due 7.5 a.m., June 27th.
Suggestion. " At expiration of 15,225 minutes make
a square and put the time inside."
Result. A piece of paper was duly handed to me,
upon which was written :
Correct.
7.5 a.m.
June 27th
Subject wrote regarding this experiment :
" Last
Saturday evening I seemed to have a dim idea
of calculating something just as I was going to
sleep (very vague). The next morning this
thought came into my head as I awoke—' Train-
time, that's easy.' '
What is ?
'
I asked myself.
Oh, of course it is easy to get up at the right
time because of the train (7 a.m.). If it weren't
for that I should not wake."
Xixxxvin.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnamhules 643
Remarks. This is rather iateresting. The subcon-
scious mind seemed to know that the suggestion
fell due about the time of the early morning
train. The waking mind to explain to itself the
meaning of its waking thought Train-time, that's
easy," apparently used the device of '
rationalisa-
tion '
by saying, Of course, it means it's easy
to get up at the right time, because of the 7 a.m.
train. If it weren't for that I should sleep on."
The mind is uneasy unless it can give due reasons
for its impulses and thoughts.
No. 9. Jime 30th, 8.50 p.m. Due July 14th, 9.55 p.m.
Siiggestion. " At expiration of 20,225 minutes you
will make an oblong and put the time inside
it."
Result. Subject wrote on the 15th, " Just as I was
going to bed on Friday 14th, I was moved to
go and get a jDaper and pencil and put it under
my pillow." When she woke up the paper had
1.35 or 11.05 written on it (it was almost illeg-
ible), but she woke up with 9.55 in her head.
In hyp)nosis three days later, she said iia
response to my questions : "I wrote 1.35 down
during the night, but I calculated it wrongly.
It ought to be 9.55. I did 9.55 later during the
night ; it is right." And so it is. (Correct.)
It will be observed in one of my experiments (No. 6)
I endeavoured to find out how long the subliminal mind
would take to work out a simple sum wdthout hurrying
the process in any way. The sum was given at 3.8 p.m.
on June 9th. It was not, however, until the evening of
the same day that the answer to the sum was written
down. Thus the subliminal mind on this occasion took
several hours to work out the simple sum, " When will
1760 minutes fall due from noAv, 3.8 p.m." Of course
it might have performed the operation in a much shorter
time had it chosen to do so. It certainly did the calcula-
tions involved in the next set of experiments " How
Sydney E. Hooper, 31. A. [part
many ?
" much more rapidly. On another occasion I
gave the following sum :
—
No. 10. " How many inches are there m 2f miles ?
" (Given
3.40 p.m., August 3rd.) I asked that the subject
should begin to work this out as soon as she
came out of hypnosis, and should record the
time when the answer had been found.
Eesulf. My wife mforms me that at 6.20 p.m. the
same evening, whilst subject and she were sittmg
down chatting, Mrs. L., apmpos of nothing, sud-
denly asked, " How many inches are there m a
mile ?
" ; to which she replied, '•
At any rate
there are 1760 feet." (Evidently both had
forgotten then- long measure tables learnt at
school.) Then Mrs. L. began to wonder why
she wanted to luiow. Later, the number 20,120
came into her mind with various other iigures,
as if she were trying to calculate something
without loiowmg what. At 7.15 p.m. the same
evening she wrote down 55,330 ms., with the
time and date. The following mornmg (August
4th) she awoke with the number 58,080 fnmly
planted in her mind, which remamed there and
thoroughly annoj^ed her until she had written it
down, when it ceased from troubling. On the
evening of August 4th, Mrs. L. handed me a
piece of paper contamuig the remarks above. I
immediately hypnotised her, and she told me
that the 58,080 represented the number of inches
in 2f miles. I then asked her to show me how
she did this sum, and she proceeded to write on
the paper the following details :
]760 X ]2 = 21120
S 2 S 0
= 58080
Remarks. The correct answer is 174,240 mches.
It will be noticed that the subject has evidently
taken 1760 x 12 to represent the number of inches
Lxxxvili.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnmnbules 645
in a mile. This is a mistake. She has omitted
to reduce the yards (1760) to feet before multiply-
ing by twelve. In hypnosis I told her this,
and she said, " Your wife told me there were
1760 feet in a mile." She further informed me
that she found the sum very difficult (as indeed
it is to perform mentally), and said that it
troubled her considerably. Asked when she did
it, she said, " I began to do it about 6.20 p.m.,
and finished it about 7.30 p.m. I did it wrongly
at first, and corrected it just as I was going to
sleep."
It is further to be noted that although the
suggestion was given at 3.40 p.m., the subliminal
mind did not apparently begin operations until
6.20 p.m.—(Was it because of the difficulty over
the long-measure table 1) —and that the answer,
—correct on the assumption that there were 1760
'
feet ' in a mile,—was not accurately arrived at
until " Just as I was going to sleep."
It would appear, then, that four to five hours
were taken to work the sum. Whether the
normal waking mind of the subject, without the
assistance of ^\riting, A\"ould have taken as long,
I do not know ; but from this experiment it
would seem that the sublimmal mind takes its
own time over its problems when there is no
need for an immediate solution.
General Remarks.
I do not think there can be any doubt that in all the
above experiments, without exception, the answers were
obtained by calculation in the intervals between the time
the suggestions were given and the time at which they
fell clue. Indeed, the subject in deep hypnosis acknow-
ledged that this was so. She said, " When you give the
suggestion to me first, I just see how many days there
are, and do the details later."
" Do you calculate them ?
"
"Yes."
646 Sydney E. Hooper, 31.A. [part
" How ?
"
" You cannot do them if your mind is absorbed in
something. It must be when you can take some of
your attention."
On another occasion she said in hypnosis :
" I think I
generally do them just as I am going to sleep."
In these first ten experiments, the suggestions were
fulfilled correctly on four occasions ; one performance was
entirely Avrong ; five were erroneous owing to carelessness
or misunderstanding. Mrs. L. informs me that whilst at
school she often spoiled her mathematical work by little
careless blunders. Mrs. L. also wrote with reference to
the calculations, in automatic script, " They worry me,"
which is in curious contrast to the unruffled calm of my
other subject, Miss E., in her long periods of steady
counting, although even the latter complained to me on
several occasions of feeling very tired.
The question as to how the subject fulfilled some of
them at the right terminal minute was also investigated.
On several occasions I asked Mrs. L. in deep hypnosis
how she knew when the actual minute had arrived for
performing the act. She replied when I first made the
enquiry, " You just keep a general idea of the passage
of time and check it by the clock." A similar explana-
tion was given in slightly different words when the
question was repeated from time to time.
First, then, a calculation was made as to when a given
suggestion fell due ; then the subconscious mind kept a
watch on the time to enable it to fulfil the suggestion
at the right moment.
In the ten experiments just described there seems no
ground for thinking that the subject revealed any remark-
able faculty of appreciating the passage of time without
the aid of objective conventional measures such as days,
hours, etc., as recorded by the clock. All that took
place was a subconscious calculation of when so many
hundreds or thousands of minutes from a given specified
time would expire. When the time actually fell due, an
impulse] ^was given to the normal waking mind to write
down the result of the calculation in accordance with
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnamhules 647
the suggestion. I agree with Dr. Mitchell, who says in
his paper : "So far there is evidence only that a sub-
conscious calculation is made soon after the suggestion is
given, and if the date so arrived at is some weeks ahead,
the subconscious mind, having noted the time at which
the act is to be performed, seems able to go off dutj' as
it were and simply watch for the arrival of the proper
day." These remarks were generally true in reference to
the method adopted by Mrs. L., except that in her case
she seemed to make a more or less rough calculation at
first, leaving the accurate details to be worked out at leisure.
My next care therefore was to devise experiments to
eliminate the possibility of a direct calculation. Con-
sequently I adopted Dr. Mitchell's method, which was to
make the subject tell the number of days, hours or
minutes which had elapsed between the giving of the
suggestion and a pre-arranged signal. Dr. ]\'Iitchell
thought it was possible in this way, where the answers
were correct, to show that it was due to a contimious
subconscious watching of time as it flowed.
I will now give this series of experiments with their
results :
—
No. 11. June 9th. 3 p.m.
Suggestion. " The next time I see you and put a
paper into your hands and a pencil, you will
write down the number of minutes that have
elapsed from now."
Result. On June 11th at 3 p.m. I put paper and
I pencil in Mrs. L.'s hand, and tokl her to sit in
a chair and let the pencil rest hghtly on the
paper. My wife then gave her a letter to read,
in the contents of which she was interested.
About four mmutes later I asked her if she had
written anything. She replied, " No, unless there
is anything on the paper." I looked, and there
were two figures, one being a four and the other
an incompleted eight, written in a scrawly auto-
matic script.
648 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
I then hypnotised her, and asked her if she
remembered the above suggestion. She did, and
repeated it correctly. I then asked why she had
not carried it out when I gave her the paper
and pencil. She replied :
''
I did : it is 48
hours." {Note.—This is correct as far as the
hours are concerned, but the answer should have
been given in. minutes.) I then said, " When
did you do it ?
" She replied, " I calculated
whilst I was readmg the letter : just two days."
Bemarks. In this experiment, then, we have another
example of calculation. There had been no con-
tinuous watching of the passage of time.
No. 12. June 11th. 3.8 p.m.
Suggestion. " The next time I give you paper and
pencil, you will tell me the number of hours and
minutes that have elaj)sed from now."
Result. On June 12th at 8.48 p.m. I saw Mrs. L.,
and handed her paper and pencil. After a few
mmutes I took the paper away, and on it was
written :
38 2840.
I then hypnotised her, and she said 2840 was
the time since 3.8 yesterday afternoon. I then
asked her to write on a piece of paper the way
she arrived at the answer. The followmg was
then written in hypnosis :
(to) 3.8 to-day is 24 hours.
3 to 9 is 6 hours. 30 hours less 20
minutes.
12 minutes to 9. 28 hours 40 minutes.
The subject was careless m the last item, the
correct ans\\er being 29 hours 40 mmutes.
Remarks. Although I did not in this case ask her
when she did this sum, I am inclined to think
that it was done whilst readmg a book I had
given her to read during the time she was holding
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules 649
the pencil, and that there had been no time-
watching during the interval.
No. 13. June 16th. 5.15 p.m.
Suggestion. " The next time I hand you a pencil
and a piece of paper you will write down the
number of minutes that have elapsed from now."
Result. At 10.40 a:m. on June 17th I hypnotised
subject and handed her a pencil and paper. Her
hand wrote out in automatic script 1030. I then
asked her to what this referred. She replied
it was the answer to the above suggestion—1030
minutes. I then said :
" How did you do it ?
"
\o which the subject replied, " I calculated it
just now." " Show me how." She then wrote :
5.20- 5.20 = 12 hours.
5.20-10.20= 5 hours.
17 hours = 1020 + 10 minutes
= 1030.
Remarks. Here, agam, we have a calculation made
between the time of the pre-arranged signal and
the actual automatic response. Note also a
shght error. The subject made the calculation
from 5.20 p.m. (mstead of 5.15) up to 10.30 a.m.
the next day (instead of 10.40)—resultuag in an
error of 15 minutes. I surmise that when she was
hypnotised to give the ans\\er she made a mistake
in guessing the time, fixmg on 10.30 instead of
10.40.
No. 14. June 19th. 9.10 p.m.
Suggestion. " When I say to you at some future
time; '
How many ?
'
you will tell me the number
of minutes that have elapsed from noAV."
Result. On June 20th at 12.50 p.m. I called on Mrs.
L., and after biddmg her good-morning, said,
" How many ?
" She looked puzzled, and said,
" What do you mean ? " Then she went into
her kitchen for about half a minute, to do nothing
650 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
in particular as I discovered later. When she
returned I asked her agam, " How many ?
"
She did not reply. Then I said, " Does any
number come into your head ?
" She repUed,
"''Nine hundred something." But a second later
amended " 940 " (correct). I hypnotised her and
asked her when she had done it. She repUed,
after I had asked • her the question, " How
many ?
""
Then I made her write down in
hyjonosis the way she had worked it out. She
wrote as follows :
—
9.10- 9.10 = 12 hours.
9.10-12.10= 3 hours
= 15 hours.
15 x60=900 m.
+ 40
940 minutes' time.
She also told me in hypnosis, in I'eply to a
question as to when she did the calculation, " I
don't think anythitag more about it from the
time you make the suggestion until you give the
signal."
Remarks. Again it must be said that there was no
continuous watching of the passage of time in
this test.
No. 15. June 20th. 1 p.m.
Suggestion. " The next time I say to you, '
How
many 1 '
you will tell me the number of minutes
that have elapsed from now."
Result. On June 22nd at 1.15 p.m. I called to see
Mrs. L., and after makuig one or two conven-
tiona remarks, said, " How many ?" She replied,
" Oh, is it '
How many '
again ?
" and laughed. " I
don't know." Then she turned and went into
her sitting-room—(Was it to give herself a minute
undisturbed ?)—and reaj^peared, saying, " 903."
Lxxxvni.] The Api^reciation of Time by Somnambules 651
I then hypnotised her, and the following are
the notes of a conversation that took place :
—
Did you give me some figures iust now ?
"
" I don't remember."
" Is there anything I told you to do when last
in hyi3nosis ?
"
" I don't remember."
"Go deeper, then you will."'
She said :
" How many minutes have elapsed
from now " (the day before yesterday) " up to
the time I next say '
How many ?
'
I believe
I gave you 903, and I ought to have given you
1903."
" Why did you not give me 1903 ?
"
" I forgot the figure one."
" When did you do it ?
"
"Just now when you asked me. I had kept
note of the fact that it was two days since I
saw you. At one o'clock to-day I just noticed
it was two days." Then suddenly
—" I've got it
\vrong ; it ought to be 2880 minutes."
" How do you Imow that ?
"
"There are 1440 in one day."
" When did you do this ?
"
When you asked me, '
How many ?
'
I just
had to add 15, because it was 1.15 p.m."
" What is your process in doing these experi-
ments ?
" Note the number of days and add the
minutes."
'"
What you have just said does not agree with
what you told me the last time I asked you
about these particular experiments."
" The last one was under a day, so I had to
calculate, and the one before that. I did not
keep the day for the last two experiments."
" Why do you make mistakes ?
"
" Sometimes the right number seems to get
lost, or I translate it wrongly."
652 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
" "What do you mean by translate ?
"
" I mean into words." »
Remarks. I did not discover why the subject gave me
903 at first, and subsequently 1903, finishing up
her efforts with 2880, in which she forgot to add
the extra 15 minutes. This experiment is interest-
ing in that it shows that my subject did not sub-
consciously watch the time unless it was more than
a day. Then, however, she did. She Imew there
were 1440 minutes in a day, so that all she had
to do in experiments whose time-interval exceeded
a day was to add the additional minutes. This
experiment, then, agrees with the results of
those of Dr. Mitchell on " F.D.", regarding
which he says : "I think there was a continuous
sub-watchmg of the time as it passed, and I
believe that the only calculation employed was
the mental addition which took place at regular
or irregular intervals."
No. 16. 9.30 p.m. Friday, July 7th.
Suggestion. " Next time I see you and say to jon,
'
How many ?
'
you will tell me the number of
minutes that have elapsed from now."
Result. I called on Mrs. L. at 9.10 p.m. on July 9th,
and after greetmg her, said, " How many ?
"
After a little hesitation she said, " 1233." This
is wrong : it should be 2860 minutes. I then
hypnotised her, and asked what the number she
had given to me re^jresented. She replied, " It
is the number of minutes from 9.30, July 7th, to
the time I saw you on Saturday evening." (Note.
—I did call on Saturday evening about three
minutes to six, but did not then say, " How
many ? ")
" I thought you meant me to give you the
number of minutes that had j^assed from 9.30
p.m., July 7th, '
till I saw you next.' " was the
explanation given by my subject for her mistake.
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules 653
Remarks. The subject was premature iii this experi-
ment. The mimber 1233 is correct for the time
from 9.30 p.m., July 7th, until 5.58 p.m., July
8th.
In hypnosis I asked the subject to write
down hoAv she arrived at this solution.
She wrote as follows :
—
From 9.25-9.25=720 minutes,
to 5.25=480
+ 33
1233 minutes.
Further asked when she did it, she replied. I
did it when you Avere talking {i.e. yesterday
evening, July 8th). I did it when you came in.
I think it was two minutes to six." This is
merely another case of calculation being made,
not as in the other ones after the pre-arranged
signal had been given, but at the time the signal
was anticipated.
No. 17. August 1st. 5.46 -p.m.
Suggestion. " The next time I give you a pencil and
piece of paper, but not before, you will write
down at once the number of minutes that have
elapsed from now."
Result. At 9.28 p.m. on August 4th I handed Mrs. L.
pencil and paper while she was engaged in a
conversation which demanded attention. At 9.35
• . p.m. I took the paper out of her hand, and on
it was written in automatic script 4730. I
immediately hypnotised her, and asked her what
4730 represented. She rephed, The time from
which I saw you." Wliat exactly do the
figures represent, and what was the suggestion ?
"
She repeated the suggestion correctly, and said,
" The figures represent the number of minutes."
" men did you do it ?
" • Just now." " Write
down exactly how you arrived at 4730." She
. . proceeded to wTite as follows, but it ^\\\\ be
654 Sydney E. Hoojjer, M.A. [part
noticed that in the act of writing she arrived at
a different answer, viz. 4560 :
6 x720=4320
+ 4 hours = 240
4560
She told me that the figures 720 stood for the
minutes in twelve hours ; and that the six repre-
sented the number of periods of twelve hours
that had passed since the suggestion had been
given. On handing me the paper with these
figures on it (written in hypnosis), she remarked,
" I generally keep it in this way, i.e. every twelve
hours." By this she obviously meant that she
kept count of every twelve hours as it passed.
" For several days," she wrote on the morning of
August 4th, " there has been a series of figures
coming into my thoughts without connection
—
1 —2—3, as if keeping a reckoning. It has now
reached 5 (12 o'clock, August 4th). This is
accompanied by a sense of expectation, as if
there were something to be done, which is not
yet accomplished. I asked the subject (in
hypnosis) how she knew the_ answer was six
times twelve hours plus something. She replied,
" I kei3t the number every twelve hours. By
the time you handed me the paper I had kept
six. I just had to multiply 720 by 6 and add
4 hours."
Remarks. Here we have an example of subliminal
watching of periods of twelve hours and adding
them up. It is to be noted that the actual
calculations were not performed until the paper
was handed to her at 9.28 p.m. There was an
error in her calculation of 18 minutes, the correct
answer being 4542. I asked her in hy|inosis how
she had come to make this error. She replied,
" I thought it was 9.46 ^.m. when you gave me
the paper." As a matter of fact, it was only
9.28, but I discovered later in the evening that
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnmnbules 655
Mrs. L.'s clock had been ten minutes fast all day,
which accounts for ten minutes of the 18 minutes'
error.
It is worthy of notice that the subconscious
mind must apparently in some circumstances
attempt to '
guess '
the right time. On this
occasion it failed in the same way that we often
do in the normal waking life. There is no
indication of clairvoyance or abnormal gift revealed
by these experiments.
Although this second batch of experiments (11-
17) were devised with the object of ensuring a
continuous watching of the passage of time and
of eliminating the possibility of calculations, they
did not have this effect. With the exception of
Exi:)eriments Nos. 15 and 17, in which periods of
twelve hours were watched and added together,
calculation \ya,s merely postponed. It a^spears
that in all the others a rapid calculation was
made during the interval between the time the
pre-arranged signal was given and the automatic
response in writing or speech. Seeing that the
. subject lme^^' the time at which a suggestion had
been given and had more or less accurate loiow-
ledge of the time when the signal occurred, it is
clear that in these operations we have nothing
but ordinary mental arithmetic.
In writing on the subject of the appreciation of time
by somnambules, Dr. Mitchell has, it seems to me, rightly
said that ^ True time-appreciation is the power of mark-
ing the passage of time without any guidance either
supra-lirainal or sub-liminal, which can by any possibility
be referred to changes going on in the external world."'
In his paper read to this Society he records a case of
one of his patients to whom he had had to recommend
a forty-eight hours" sleep with but short intervals for
the taking of nourishment. He is of the opinion that
1 The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules, by T. W. Mitchell, M.D.,
Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXI.. p 51.
656 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [pabt '
i:
this lady showed a true appreciation of the passage of si
time throughout the whole period of sleep, and considers j
ii
that the watching of the time was done by the hypnotic j
«
consciousness, and that the knowledge of the time of day i
so obtained was in the possession of the hypnotic con- |
'
sciousness alone. '
In order to discover if somnambules have the power of
'
true '
time appreciation as defined above, experiments must
be devised to ensure that the subject is debarred from !
;
gaining any information as to the passage of time '
from changes taking place in the world around them.
This precaution is necessary because impressions received
through the eye or ear which give information as to the
time of day to the waking consciousness will be also at
the service of the hypnotic consciousness, and the alert
hypnotic consciousness, intent on performing its task
correctly, will be on the look-out for such information.
This will be the case even when the waking mind is so ^
fully occupied on other matters as apparently to preclude 5
all time-watching. Seeing, however, that it is possible
that subconscious perception has the extended range
which characterises perception during hypnosis under the
influence of suggestion, the difficulty of devising experi-
ments to ensure that the subconscious mind does not
glean information through the ordinary channels _ of sense,
is greatly increased. Moreover, even after suitable experi-
ments have been thought out, it is not easy to carry
them through, since ordinary subjects cannot normally be
asked to go to sleep for three or four days or to remain
in a dark room for any considerable length of time.
I was therefore unable to carry out experiments of this
nature in respect of periods of time of veiy great length.
I endeavoured, however, to discover if Mrs. L. had the
power of '
true '
time appreciation for short intervals of
time varying from five to sixty minutes. During these
experiments the subject was carefully kept away from
clocks and watches, so that she had no means of gleaning
information as to the passage of time from this source. ,
Care was taken to ensure that the suggested acts were
of a very simple nature, in order that the waking mind
Lxxxviii.] The Apjjreciation of Time by Somnambules 657
should feel no reluctance in executing them when the
imjDulse was felt. All the suggestions were fulfilled in the
waking state.
No. IS. Sugr/estion. At the expiration of 13J minutes exactly,
you will take a book' from the window-sill in the
diaing-room and hand it to my wife."'
Result. Act fulfilled Ih minutes too soon.
No. 19. Suggestion. " 7^ minutes from no\^' put up your right
arm."
Result. Act fulfilled 1 minute too soon.
No. 20. Suggestion. " At the expiration of 2S minutes shake
hands with my wife."
Result. Act foilfiUed 5 minutes too soon.
No. 21. Suggestion. " Thirty-five minutes after you meet my
wife for your daily walk, shake hands with her."
Result. Correct. Act fulfilled at right time.
No. 22. Suggestion. " Exactly 45 minutes after joining my
^^ife to-night you will shake hands with her."
Result. Act fulfilled 8 minutes too soon.
No. 23. Suggestion. Exactly 50 minutes after you meet my
wife to-day you will shake hands with her."
Result. Act fulfilled IJ minutes too soon.
No. 24. Suggestion. As above, but time-mterval 53 minutes.
Result. Act fulfiUed 2 minutes too soon.
No. 25. Suggestion. Same, in one hour.
Result. Act fulfilled 10 minutes too late.
No. 26. Suggestion. Same in 57 minutes.
Result. Act fulfilled 3 minutes too late.
No. 27. Suggestio7i. Same in 47 minutes.
.
Result. Act fulfilled 2 minutes too soon.
No. 28. Suggestion. Same m 18 murutes.
Result. 7 minutes too late.
658 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [PABT
No. 29 Suggestion. Same in 28 minutes.
Result. Act fulfilled 5 minutes too soon.
No. 30 Suggestion. Same in 46 minutes.
Result. Act fulfilled 1 minute too late.
No. 31 Suggestion. Same in 57 minutes.
Result. Act fulfilled 3 minutes too soon.
No. 32. Suggestion. Same in 50 miniites.
Result. Act fulfilled 4 minutes too late.
Remarks. It will be observed that only on one occa-
sion, viz. Experiment No. 21, was Mrs. L.
absolutely correct ; in all the others there were
errors ranging from one and a half to ten minutes;
in the majority she Avas premature.
In most, if not all, of the tests Mrs. L. was,
I think, unaware of the exact time from which
the estimates had to be made. It would there-
fore have been no aid to accuracy of fulfilment
to have attemjited to make calculations. More-
over, although in the long-time experiments Mrs.
L. admitted she made calculations, she assured me
in hypnosis that she did not do so in the short-
time experiments. It would seem, therefore, that
here we have genuine instances of subconscious
time-watching and time-estimation.
Thinking that it might prove fruitful if a comparison
of the above results with estimates of short intervals by
the waking mind could be made, I asked Mrs. L. to make
a series of observations on herself. She found, however,
that owing to the tendency of the waking mind to forget
these self-imposed tasks, such observations were far from
easy to carry out for any but very short intervals. With
no little difficulty she completed a series of 15 tests. In
these tests the mean error proved to be 4-2 compared
with a mean error of 3 6 made by the hypnotic con-
sciousness. The latter thus showed a superiority of '1 in
estimating short periods of time.
Lxxxvin.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnamhules 659
Mrs. L. did not show the same degree of accuracy in
her subliminal time-estimates as some somnambules, as
observed by other investigators. For instance. Dr. Mitchell's
subject •'
F.D.," in her estimates of periods of time
varying from 1 to 15 minutes, committed a mean error
of 1-009 minutes in thirty-one tests. In fifteen obser-
vations on " Mrs. C," with periods varying from two
to ten minutes, the mean error was -78 minute. In
a series of sixty observations made by Dr. Mitchell
on various subjects, with periods varying from one minute
to half an hour, the mean error was -89 minute.
Whether the fact that my experiments tested estimates
for a longer period than half an hour, viz. up to one
hour, is responsible for the greater mean error in Mrs. L.'s
case, I cannot say. I am unable to discern any principle
governing her errors. In several instances the errors for
periods of from 50-57 minutes were less than for a period
of 28 minutes. Thus, in No. 28, an eighteen-minute test,
there was an error of 7 minutes, whilst in No. 26, a
fifty-seven minute test, the error was only three minutes.
The maximum error of ten minutes occurred in No. 25,
where the period was sixty minutes.
Dr. Mtchell noted in his investigations that there was
an apparent limitation of the amount of error, no matter
what the suggested time interval might be. He found
that an error of one minute was just as likely to be
made when the suggestion was for fifteen minutes as
when it was for three. In the great majority of his
experiments for the estimation of periods up to half an
hour, the maximum error was not more than one or two
minutes.
I endeavoured to find out by qiiestioning Mrs. L. in
hypnosis the method employed by her in fulfilHng these
short-time suggestions. .She informed me that she did
not make calculations, but that she knew when the right
time had come to perform the act from a '
sense of
rhythm.' I tried to obtain more accurate information
about this sense of rhythm, but I fear that what she
said on these occasions was rather vague. On one
-occasion in hypnosis, in response to my request that she
660 Sydney E. Hooper, 31.A. [part
should write as accurately as possible a description of
this rhythmic sense, she wrote :
—
"Just as a delicate balance is made inaccurate by
disturbance, so the sense of rhythm is temporarily upset
by agitation " ; and again, on a subsequent occasion, she
wrote :
—
" The sense of rhythm or balance is always active and
constantly being checked or measured against the clock
time. Suppose you speak of a minute. This has come
to mean a definite measure of rhythm, though it is not
measured in any exact terms."
Towards the end of my experiments, I one day asked
Mrs. L. in deep hypnosis how she knew that a certain
'
piece of rhythm '
corresponded to a minute of clock
time. She replied :
" It just feels as if it were a minute."
Asked if she counted at all, she replied : "In a way I
do ;
one stays in my head until it seems to turn into
two ;
two until it turns into three, and so on." This
fragment of information, furnished by my subject's
hypnotic mind, is, I think, of value in shedding light on
the mental processes involved in achievements of the
kind we are considering.
Concluding Remarks.
At first sight the question as to how the hypnotic
consciousness is able to estimate, frequently with surpris-
ing precision, these various periods of time without
assistance from any mechanical time-measurer, appears
very baffling. I do not, however, think it is necessary,
in seeking for an explanation, to endow the hypnotic
level of the mind with any transcendental power. Rather
it would seem to be more promising to look for a clue
in the mental processes of the normal waking mind when
making similar estimates. Now, we have seen that it is
also possible for the waking mind to make estimates of
the passage of periods varying from five minutes to an
hour, with more or less accuracy. True, there are often
considerable errors, and oftener still the self-imposed tasks
are quickly forgotten in consequence of other interests
taking hold of the mind. Nevertheless, as Mrs. L.'s
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules . 661
experiments on herself show, estimates can sometimes be
made with very small errors. We are justified then, I
think, in assuming that in these estimates the same, or
a very similar mental process is operating on both levels
of the mind. That is to say, there is no difference in
'
kind '
between the mental process when estimates are
being made by the hypnotic consciousness, and when
they are being made by the waking consciousness.
What, then, is the method of the waking mind in
estimating short periods of time ? If a subject is
requested to close his eyes and judge when five or ten
minutes have passed, he may adopt the method of
rhythmic counting. He knows more or less perfectly the
rhythm of the ticking of a clock, and proceeds to count
at a similar rate, and in this way succeeds in approxi-
mating to accuracy. When counting is not consciously
employed, the subject judges on the basis of experience
that a certain slice of duration filled with a number of
events is equal to a period of clock time. It is admitted
that this latter procedure is liable to gross error, and it
is unlikely that the accurate power of estimating time
displayed by many somnambules is to be accounted for
by any rough judgment of the latter kind.
What, now, is the method employed by the hypnotic
level of the mind in order correctly to carry out post-
hypnotic suggestions 1 Although it is by no means
certain that aU somnambules employ the same method,
we discovered from our investigation into Miss E.'s
achievements that she used the method of counting even
for periods as long as 44 1 and 38 hours. Mrs. L. also
stated in hypnosis that she carried out these short-time
experiments from a '
sense of rhythm '
; that a minute
possessed for her a '
definite value,' and that, as she was
watching the passage of time, the minutes seemed each
at a constant rate automatically to flow into its successor,
one merging into two, two into three, three into four,
and so on.
Here, then, at any rate, in regard to two somnambules,
we seem to have subliminal counting and sul^liminal
equating of periods of duration with clock time, similar
662 Sydney E. Hooper, M.A. [part
to that attempted by the waking consciousness. If this
analysis be sound, then it would appear that in the
estimates of short periods of time there is no essential
difference in the mental processes of the waking and hypnotic
levels of the mind.
There remains, however, the apparent fact of the
'
superiority '
displayed by the hypnotic over the waking
consciousness. Although in the case of Mrs. L. this
superiority is not very marked, in results published by
other investigators the approximation to accuracy of
estimation by the hypnotic consciousness is much more
striking. And if my own subject. Miss E., were able to
perform the suggestions in many instances at the correct
time, solely by a process of rhythmic counting, there can,
I think, be no doubt that her hypnotic consciousness
displayed considerable superiority over her waking mind
in this respect. It would appear then necessary to admit
this superiority. Can we suggest any explanation for it 1
I submit that one important factor making for superiority
is the capacity of the hypnotic consciousness to con-
centrate upon its task to the exclusion of all else. It
apparently watches the passage of time without cessation
until the suggested act has been carried out. It is
absorbed in its work, refusing, with praiseworthy per-
sistency, any temptation to diversion. The waking mind,
on the other hand, when making similar estimates, is
unable normally to think continuously of its undertaking
or to watch the flow of time with the same degree of
attentive concentration. Thus, in place of the simple
absorption characteristic of the liypnotic consciousness,
the waking mind displays but fitfid interest and spas-
modic attention. The tranquil patience possessed by the
hypnotic consciousness, together with its capacity for
undivided attention, would appear to give it an advantage
over the waking mind in its rhythmic counting. Whether,
however, this is the sole explanation for its superiority,
I am unable to say. There may be other contributory
factors.
It is conceivable, to refer again to Dr. Mitchell's specula-
tion, that on the subliminal level of the mind some cor-
Lxxxviii.] The Appreciation of Time by Somna^nbules 663
relation exists between certain rhythmic organic processes
and our conventional divisions of time, so that when-
the subconscious mind is shut off from contact with
clocks and watches it still has at hand an objective time-
measurer. Some such hypothesis would seem to be
necessary to explain the time accuracy exhibited by
certain somnambules in performing post-hypnotic acts
under these conditions.
There is, however, one other possibility. The pendular
rhythm of the clock may be so perfectly inscribed on the
subconscious memory, and its faithful reproduction be so
easy a matter, that the postulation of other factors is
superfluous.
One concluding remark may not be altogether irrelevant.
Experimental psychology has shown that in estimating very
short periods of time—of a second or less—there is a
certain period for whiclv the mean of a number of estimates
is correct. It is suggested that this period—called '
in-
di.Tference-time '—represents the time occupied in fixing
attention. Did Miss E.'s counting correspond with this
'
indifference-time '
?
TABLE OF EXPERIMENTS.
Nos. 1-12, with " Miss E."
No.
of
Ex.
Suggestion made
on at
10
11
12
1922
.Jan. 31st
.Jan. 31st
Feb. 7tli
Feb. 14th
Feb. 15th
Feb. 21st
Feb. 28th
Mar. 7 th
Mar. 14th
April 5th
Sept. 11th
Sept. 26th
Interval
suggested.
Suggestion due. Result.
Just before getting into bed write down time.
Draw a triangle and square at 11.45, Feb. 2nd.
8.5 p.m.
8.9 p.m.
6.30 p.m.
10.7 p.m.
8.10 p.m.
9.5 p.m.
8.15 p.m.
7.0 p.m.
7.0 p.m.
9.15 p.m.
175 min.
891 min.
960 min.
2880 min.
4320 min.
420 min.
1860 min.
3300 min.
4744 min.
3600 min.
6480 min.
7200 min.
2670 min.
2880 min.
7th Feb., 11 p.m.
loth Feb., 11 a.m.
16th Feb., 10.30 ;i.m.
23rd Feb., 10.7 p.m.
3rd Mar., 8.10p.m.
8th Mar.,
9th Mar.,
10th Mar.,
11th Mar.,
17th Mar.,
19th Mar.,
4.5 a.m.
4.5 a.m.
4.5 a.m.
4.5 a.m.
8.15 p.m.
8.15 p.m.
10th April, 7.0 p.m.
13th Sept., 7.30 p.m.
28th Sept., 11.15 a.m.
Correct.
Correct.
Error 5 min. over.
Error 3 min. short.
Correct.
Error 5 min. short.
Error 3 min. over.
Not done.
Correct.
Not done.
Error 10 min. over.
Correct.
Correct.
664 Sydney E. Hoojm-, M.A. [part
Table of Experiments—wiii'wnfecf!.
Nos. 1-10, with " Mrs. L."
IN U.
of
Ex.
Sug-gesti<
on
311 made
at
Interval
suggested.
Suggestion due. Result.
1
Mar. 10th 7.15 p.m. 900 min. 11th Mar., 10.15 a.m. Correct.
Z Mar. 10th 7.15 p.m. 4320 min. 13th Mar., 7.15 p.m. Wrong number
caleulated.
•>
.3 June 8th 12.30 p.m. 450 min. 7i lirs. 8 p.m. Wroni;.
4 June 8th 12.40 p.m. 5316 min. 12th June, 5.16 a.m. Wrong.
.3 June 8th 12.15 ij.m. 7320 min. 13th .Tune, 2.25 ji.m. Correct.
6 June 9th 3.8 p.m. 1760 min. 10th June, 8.28 p.m. Error 13 min. short.
7 June 12th 9.10 p.m. 10,240 min. 19th June, 11.50 p.m. Wrong number
calculated.
8 .June 16th 5.20 p.m. 15,225 min. 27th .Fune. 7.5 a.m. Correct.
0 .June 30tb 8.50 p.m. 20,225 min. 14th .luly, 9.55 p.m. Correct.
10 To test how long subliminal miad takes to work sum. Took 4 or 5 hours.
Nos. 11-17, with "Mrs. L."
11 .June 9th 3.0 p.m. 11th June, 3 p. m. Correct.
'
12 June 11th 3.8 ]3.m. No deKnite 12th June, 8.48 p.m. Error. -
13 •lune 16th 5.15 p.m. interval 17th June, 10.40 a.m. Slight error.'
14 J une 19th 9.10 p.m. suggested
—
20th .June, 12.50 p.m. Correct.
15 June 20th 1.0 l).m. '
To await 22nd June, 1.15 p.m. Wrong.
16 July 7 th 9.30 p.m. signal.' 9th July 9.10 p.m. Correct.*
17 A ug. 1st 5.46 p.m. 4th Aug., 9.28 p.m. Error. 5
Nos. 18-32, OTth "Mrs. L."
18 134 min. Error 14- min. short.
19 min. 1
20 28 min. >? 5
21 35 min. 0
22 45 min. »j 8
23 50 min. »,
1
24 53 min. )t 2
25 60 min. >? 10 min. over.
26 57 min. ,» 3
27 47 mir. ?
,
2 min. short.
28 18 min. >5 7 min. over.
29 28 min. 5 min. short.
30 46 min. 1 min. over.
31 57 min. 3 min. short.
32 50 min. 4 min. over.
Mean Error - - 3-6 min.
1 Given in hours instead of minutes. -Slip in calculation resulting in error of I hour.
3 Error in '
guessing '
time. ^Subject anticipated signal.
5 Error corrected when subject wrote down calculation in hypnosis.
ijxxxvni.] Possibility of Deception with Eva C. 665
CONCERNING THE POSSIBILITY OF DECEPTION IN
SITTINGS WITH EVA C.i
By Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing (of Munich).
In Proc. S.P.R., Vol. LXXXIV., Mr. E. J. DingwaU has
criticised the author's experiments with the medium
Eva C. in terms which in several particulars are neither
fair nor accurate. Since the publication of this report
(June, 1922), Mr. Dingwall has become acquainted with
the present writer's manner of working and his experi-
mental method by taking part in three sittings with the
medium Willy Sch. at his laboratory in Munich. Probably,
therefore, Mr. Dingwall might now view my conduct in
another light than he did before we were personally
acquainted.
Mr. Dingwall asks what is the extent of my knowledge
of methods of deception and hoAV far I am in a position
to discover fraudulent manipulations before or after the
sittings. To this I may reply that in my experiences
with physical mediums, which have extended over a
period of more than thirty-five years, I have never yet
met with conjuring proper." In this respect conditions
upon the continent are different from those in the Anglo-
Saxon countries England and America, where, in con-
sequence of the extraorchnarily widespread belief in
spiritualism, mediumship has been c^uite shamelessly put
to professional uses.
Moreover, a fraudulent appearance in the phenomena
is often extremely marked where we have to do with a
genuine mediumistic performance. I will mention here
only the imj)robable appearance of many teleplastic
productions observed at Madame Bisson's sittings with
Eva C, at my own, and at Dr. Geley's, and also at the
^ Translated from the German.
666 Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing. ' [part
sittings of the English Committee. It needs but a Kttle
in such cases to confound these rare, and in appearance
fraudulent sports of Nature with the conjurer's sleight of
hand, in spite of their supernormal origin. In particular,
the range of so-called " mediumistic apports " is marked
by a particularly close analogy with the deceptions of the
" magician which depend upon speed and misdirection.
Towards that particular branch of mediumistic phenomena,
at all events, a very sceptical attitude is appropriate.
The psychological foundations of the conjurer's art are
well known both to myself and to the other continental
investigators into the physical branch of parapsychie
phenomena. I do not think that upon this point we
have anything new to learn from Mr. Dingwall.
It should be noted that famous conjurers such as
Bosko, Houdin, Hermann, Bellachini, Jakolis, Hamilton,
etc., have acquitted the mediums whom they have ob-
served of any suspicion of conjuring tricks, just as Mr.
Dingwall would now hardly venture to assert that the
phenomena of Eva C. and Willy Sch. are founded upon
conjuring. For nothing is easier than to deprive a
medium of the use of his limbs by observation and by
holding the extremities. Subjects who are not able to
endure such controlled experiments should be ignored by
scientific enquirers. An accomplice or abettor, such as
a conjurer needs, can only be in question where the
persons included in the circle are not reliable. But if
the circle consists solely of doctors or well-known men of
science, and if, moreover, the grouping of the circle is
changed between one sitting and another, this objection
also falls to the ground.
All things considered, the physical phenomena of medium-
ship cannot be counterfeited, if such experimental con-
ditions as will exclude fraud are rigorously maintained
at the sittings.
On the other hand, I can corroborate Mr. Dingwall's
statement that when Eva C."s hands are given the necessary
freedom, she sometimes uses them to increase the tendency
of the phenomena to deceive the observers' senses, because
she seizes the teleplasma in her hands, works upon it.
Lxxxviii.] Possibility of Deception with Eva C. 667
and sets out her picture-like productions so that they
can be easily seen by the circle of onlookers. But this
arrangement for optical effect has nothing whatever to do
with the source of the psychoplastic objects. But I
must at this point emphasise the fact that during the
latter part of the period covered by my experiments,
1913-1914, the possibility of the hands being brought into
play was ruled out by the conditions under which
these experiments took place.
Mr. Dingwall goes on to express his surprise that at
a sitting held with Eva C. during the period of experi-
menting at Munich (August, 1912), I did not myself
discover some unquestionable pin-holes in the curtain, but
that these were observed by Dr. A. That there were,
in fact, a few pinholes in the curtain just before this
unjustifiably exaggerated discovery does not depend, as
Mr. Dingwall suggests, upon the author's " assertion,'" but
upon the written testimony of the photographer who
took part in the arrangement of the apparatus (see
Kampf urn die Materialisazions-jjhdi^omene, p. 26). Before
judging this matter readers shovild take into account the
following letter received from my photographer :
Dear Baron,
In reply to your enquiry I gladly inform you that
on one occasion certainly (when I had no assistance at
hand) I fixed a piece of newspaper with a pin to the
curtain of the cabinet with a view to setting up the
cameras correctly. It is probable that I may have fixed
a similar sheet with the same pin to the back wall of
the cabinet also, and to the stool, but my recollection is
not clear on this point owing to the long interval of
time.
I remain.
Yours very truly,
Georg Haitberrisser, Dr.
(Head of the Hauberrisser Photographic
11/11/1914. Institute.)
We are therefore concerned in this case neither with an
" assertion " on the part of the author, nor with the
668 Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing. [part
discovery of an entirely neAv fact by Dr. A., since the
existence of several pin-holes was already known to the
experimenters. As Mr. Dingwall saw when he took part
in the Munich experiments, it is my habit to give my
scientific guests a free hand in examining the laboratory,
with a view to the attainment of objective conclusions.
Moreover, I was myself present when the pin-holes were
found. The examination of the cabinet which had been
moved from its position was carried out jointly by Dr.
A. and myself. There was therefore no question of
anything having been previously overlooked, and equally
no reason for Dr. A. to claim the special merit of having
discovered some omission on my part, or of having
opened my eyes.
Undoubtedly the existence of a row of pin-holes remains
a riddle, and so dees the English Committee's discover}^
of fragments of paper at four separate sittings. But
these observations, pointing to a negative conclusion, do
not afford us any complete explanation ;
they do not, for
example, explain the passing of the teleplastic substance
through the veil which was observed by the English
Committee, as well as by others. The value of our posi-
tive observations cannot, therefore, be destroyed by a few
mysterious occurrences of an apparently suspicious nature
for which up to the present we have no explanation.
For time and again the mysterious world of mediumship
puts forward phenomena which come as a shock to our
accustomed trains of thought. May we not find in this
employment of pins an instance of an apport, the more
that it has been demonstrated in the case of the medium
Frau Silbert that the engraved marks upon articles of
jewelry have been produced by means of pins super-
normally introduced. Moreover, in the case of three
mediums, between whom there was no connexion, the
writer has been able to observe the fixing up of tele-
plastic products by means of pins which were probably
introduced in supernormal ways, and the observations
were to some extent corroborated by the camera. This
occuiTence, therefore, in the case of Eva C. is not isolated,
but is typical of a certain phase of mediumship.
Lxxxviii.] Possibility of Deception with Eva C. 669
Eva C.'s stockinette costume and her clothing were
regularly held up to the light of a hand-lamp before the
sittings and especially searched for defective places. During
the many years covered by the period of experimentation
only once, at the sitting of the 29th May, 1912, were
holes found in the stockinette, and these were noted in
the record.
In spite of the monotonous repetition year after year
of the same process of examination, our attention never
flagged ; for we were convinced of the value and necessity
of examining the seance-costume. Had it not been for
this careful control, those minute paper particles could not
have been discovered on August 30th, 1912.
Rectal and vaginal examinations have repeatedly been
carried out, many of them during the later period by the
present writer himself.
With regard to the pieces of paper found in Paris and
in London, we have no occasion to doubt that even
paper-like substances can be materialised, as can sub-
stances of the nature of gauze veiling and cotton, including
the morphological structure of the weft, folds sewn in,
etc.
Just as traces have repeatedly been left of the pure,
organic -teleplastic substance, so may similar fragments of
the materialised products, textile or cellular, have been
left behind.
We have far too little knowledge at the present time
of the way in which these teleplastic creative processes
work, and we do not know that this materialising process
is not capable of including m its scope all the objects of
our sensory world, and tricking us with representations
of them. In any case it appears inadmissible according
to our present experience to found a suspicion of fraud
upon the improbability in the appearance of these tele-
plastic products and upon their material characteristics,
merely because these phenomena are inconsistent with our
preconceived ideas. The habitual trend of our associative
thought compels us, whenever a medium produces pheno-
mena such as those described above, to think at once of
similar appearances in the world of our experience. Clearly
2u
670 Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing. [paet
the creative efforts of this unknown psychic force, when
it embodies itself for our senses, expresses itself in the
shape of appearances known to us in the world of our
experience, in order to be generally intelligible to us.
If the working of an unknown law of nature consisted
in presenting to our vision appearances at one time in
two dimensions, at another plastic, at one time in the rough,
at another finished in every detail, at one time with all
the characteristics of life, at another without them, we
should have to conform our ideas to these phenomena,
however strange each of them might individually seem.
So long as we continue to be wholly ignorant of the
process at work, as we are to-day, we have no right to
repudiate a phenomenon because, for example, its two-
dimensional appearance is not consistent with the hypo-
thesis upon which our presentation of the case rests, in
other words, with our preconceived ideas.
The teleplastic reproduction of a portrait from the
'
Miroir '
by a combination of ideoplastic force and
cryptomnesia is not in itself more wonderful and also not
more suspicious than the appearance of the letters '
Miro.'
In judging the suspicions expressed by Mr. Dingwall,
suspicions which it is not easy to dispel, the decisive
factor can only be the experimental conditions of control
imposed at the sittings under consideration ; it can in
no wise be the mere appearance of olijects seen. Now,
the experimental conditions were such as to be absolutely
free from any objection, and, moreover, the mysterious
emergence of these objects and their sudden disappearance,
leaving no trace, supports in this instance the hypothesis
of materialisation .
When in conclusion Mr. Dingwall asserts that at the
sitting of August 11, 1911, it was by a photograph
developed after the sitting that the writer was first
made aware of Eva C'.'s manipulating of the phenomena
with her right hand, while in place of the real hand three
lay a flat, glove-like form, in open imitation of the hand
supposedly under control, in this case the present writer's
statement has been misunderstood and wrongly quoted.
The exact wording of the passage is as follows {Material-
Lxxxviii.] Possibility of Deception with Eva C. 671
isazions-phdnomene, p. 172, Eng. trans., p. lOS) :
" x\fter
a photograph had been taken (Exposure No. 1 at this
sitting) the sitting continued. Out of the elemental sub-
stance which was changing its position, there was built up
in her lap a third flat hand. At the same time I also
observed about thirty centimetres above her head another
better formed hand. Since the phenomenon was repeated
several times and again manifested itself over her head,
I made another exposure (No. 2 flashlight photograph at
this sitting)."
Mr. Dmgwall's incorrect citation, arising out of a
mistake on his part, was given in the course of a corre-
spondence otherwise private, but it must nevertheless be
published in this present connection, lest the reader
should deduce from an inaccurate reference a defect in
the writer's powers of observation. The flaws and im-
perfections referred to by Mr. Dingwall in the experiments
with Eva C. have been discussed in detail in the present
writer's works, so that what Mr. Dingwall has put forward
does not introduce any new objections. But it should
not be forgotten that against these isolated observations
of a negative character we have to set an altogether com-
pelling mass of evidence drawn from hundreds of successful
experiments, so that these negative observations possess
in reality but little force.
As to the question of the part played by regurgitation
in the experiments with Eva C, an explanation which,
so far as the English experiments are concerned, is dis-
missed by every member of the Committee, the second
German edition of Materialisazions-phdnomene, now in print,
enters into an exhaustive discussion of this matter, which
once and for all makes a clean sweep of this " old wives'
tale." The layman has no justification for his tendency
to regard the stomach of mediums of this type as a
kind of conjurer's property-bag, out of which he can at
his pleasure select any article he happens at the moment
to require.
Moreover, Mr. Dingwall himself admits that his only
reason for going so thoroughly into the possibility of
fraud in the experiments with Eva C, is in order to set
672 Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing. [part
clearly before the reader's eyes the impossibility and
absurdity of this hypothesis.
Now, as regards the technique of investigation, experi-
ence shows that better results are obtained if, in spite of
the most rigorous system of control in regard to observa-
tion of the medium, one tries to establish good psycho-
logical relations with her, and at the same time to attain
a sympathetic understanding of her mentality, and if
during the actual sittings one does not concern oneself
either in thought or in conversation with possibilities" of
deception and methods of control.
For these phenomena have their origin in the life of
the unconscious mind and arise from an instinctive impulse
in the medium, who for her part can yield herself up
completely to this impulse only upon condition that her
conscious attention is not brought into play by psycho-
logical resistances, or by doubt of her honesty on the
part of the observers. The frequent ignoring of this most
important consideration, especially in scientific investi-
gations, is a cause of negative sittings even in the case
of mediums who in other circumstances give good results.
Belief in the actuality of parapsycho-physical phenomena
gains new adherents in Germany every day. The remark-
able occurrences observed with Eva C. have opened the
way and are gaining an ever-increasing recognition as
a result of the observation of similar occurrences in
experiments with other subjects.
LXXXVIIl] Review 673
REVIEW.
Medical Psychology and Psychical Research. By T. W.
Mitchell. (London : Methuen & Co. 1922. Pp. vii, 244.)
It was an excellent idea of Dr. Mitchell's to republish in
book form the remarkable studies on the problems of multiple
personality and hysteria which he has been contributing to the
Proceedings of our Society ever since 1907. For m. their new
form they are much more likely to reach both the general
and the medical pubhc which does not read our Proceedings,
but which it is vitally important to interest in our researches,
and to which the moderation and caution of Dr. Mitchell's
statements is sure to appeal. It is also commendable that the
somewhat scanty English hterature on abnormal states of
personaUty should be enriched by a work worthy of being
mentioned by the side of the great French and American
classics on the subject. Not that Dr. Mitchell has had the
good fortune to come across subjects of an excellence comparable
with that of '
FeUda,' '
Leonie,' '
Miss Beauchamp,' the '
Rev.
Mr. Hanna,' or '
Doris Fischer '
; it is rather in the handling
of his (less sensational) cases, and in the judiciousness of the
conclusions drawn that he excels. As, moreover, it is precisely
in elaborations of the ^theoretic conclusions that the new
material (found in chapters iv. and vi.) chiefly consists, it is
to their consideration that this review will be chiefly devoted.
Dr. Mitchell throughout employs the sound method of
explaining the abnormal developments of mental Ufe by their
analogy with normal processes of which they may be regarded
as the exaggerations. He therefore points out that the lapses
of memory which are common in everyday life, the changes of
mood which accompany changes in the bodj^ and its functional
activity, the aberrations of conduct to which most men are
liable to in some degree, are the same in kind as those that
are met with in more pronounced form in multiple personaUty
(p. 103). He also deprecates " the tendency of some modern
psychologists lightly to give up belief in the unitary char-
674 F. C. S. Schiller [part
acter of man's being " (p. 44), would rather " speak of the
hypnotic stratum of consciousness than of tlie hypnotic self
"
(p. 45), and distinguishes between disruption of " the unity of
consciousness and of the higher unity which is implied in the
conception of personaUty "
(p. 147). By combining these
criteria, he is enabled to make the valuable suggestion that
the '
Jekyll-and-Hyde '
tyjje of dissociation, in which there is
a marked moral difference between the two '
selves,' is "a
pathological development of a/c^acr/a," '
incontinence,' as described
by Aristotle (p. 159), and conversely, that " in uKparria we. have
an incipient doubling of personality "
(p. 155). Whenever
incompatible interests come into conflict in an imperfectly
integrated moral character, there may be a yielding to '
temp-
tation,' and this will be facilitated by a ])rocess of self-so-
])histication or '
rationalization,' which causes temporary amnesia
rf considerations which would run counter to tlie desire, and
forges reasons for indulging in it (p. 156-7). The reason why
Jekyll-and-Hyde dissociations are so rare is probably that,
thanks to the '
rationalization '
of the desire, complete amnesia
does not grow up, and " a double life may be led without
discovery "
(p. 158). Nevertheless there may be a sort of
" amnesia of the interests, purposes and ideals " of the moral
self (p. 106). This analysis of incontinence appears to me to
be well worthy of the attention of moralists, who, no doubt
from ignorance of psychology, have not been very hapjoy in
their dealings with the '
moral struggle.'
Much the same might be said of philosoiihers generally, as
regards their treatment of the self and the body-soul relation.
In his final chajDter on Body and Soul in Multiple Personality
Dr. Mitchell treats the magniloquent obscurities in which they
have involved the subject with more respect than they prob-
ably deserve. But he is very explicit in exposing the vague-
ness which underlies physiological attempts to conceive the
unity of consciousness (as also its '
dissociation ') in merely
neural terms. He rightly prefers to interpret the variations of
personality in terms of shiftings in the '
threshold '
of consci-
ousness, and he holds that the soul as "a psychical being
beneath or behind the phenomena of consciousness " is by no
means antiquated. As for its dissociations, " one unitary soul
may persist behind all dissociations of consciousness, but it will
lxxxviii] Review 675
be unable to appear as a unity and its manifestations may ' be
fragmentary and discordant. Its unity will be marked by
the imperfection of its instrument." (p. 236).
Here I am tempted to, not to controvert Dr. Mitchell, but
to dot a few i's and to cross a few i's, in order to reinforce
his conclusion. In the first place, it should be observed that
no discussion of the relation of body and soul can claim
completeness which neglects to consider what William James
has called the transmission theory, which is jirecisely the one
for which the body is the normal instrument, and often the
hindrance, of the soul's manifestation, and Avhich is ca^Jable
of interpreting all the facts usually held to point to the
(materialistic) j^'^oduction theory. Secondly, it should be made
quite clear that the soul must not be conceived as a thing-like
entity, after the fashion of the old metaphysics. Conceived as
a thing, it was perfectly useless, as its critics perceived, and
explained nothing. It is not a '
substratum '
for its qualities
to '
inhere '
in, but an activity that reveals itself in its
manifestations. Thirdly, we should beware of assuming that
the problem to be accounted for in '
multijile personality "
is
how an original unity can be '
dissociated,' and a soul can
fall to pieces. As Dr. Mitchell acutely remarks (p. 214) " in
order to explain how consciousness can be split in two, we
must first be able to explain how it ever comes to be one."
The unity of a '
soul '
manifesting through a '
body '
must
necessarily be an achievement, not a datum. For the body is
not a unity, but an incredibly complex association of vast
multitudes of cells that has grown together under natural
selection to meet the various requirements of organic life.
Nothing, therefore, is more probable than that its various
organs and activities should not always function together in a
perfectly harmonious way. And if they are, in addition, the
more or less recalcitrant instruments of a being that strives
to manifest through them, it is not astonishing that its self-
expression should frequently fall short of unity and harmony.
Nor is it unreasonable, with such a theory of psychic structure,
to keep one's eyes open, and to look for evidences, ahke in
the normal and in the abnormal functionings of the '
soul,'
of supernormal processes transcending our present jDlane of
evolution, F. C. S. Schiller.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF TEE SOCIETY FOR PSYCEICAL RESEARCH.
PitiOFESsoR Henry Sidgwick, - 1882-84.
PiiOFEssoR Balfour Stewart,
F.K.S., 1885-87.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1888-92.
The Right Hon. The Eakl
Balfour, K.G., F.ll.S., - - 1893.
Professor William James, - - l894-9o.
Sir William Crooke':,O.M.,F.R.S., 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers,- - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. - 1901-03.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - .
- 1905.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour,- 1908-07.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - - 1903-09.
H. Arthur Smith, - - - 1910.
ANDREW Lang. 1911.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., - - . - 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson, - - 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, - - 1014.
Professor Gilbert Murray,
LL.D.. Litt.D,. - - - 191.5-in.
L. P. Jacks. LL.D., D.D.. - - 1917-18.
THE Rt. Hon. Lord Rayleigh,
0 M., F.R.S., - - - . 1919.
W. McDougall, F.R.S., .M.Sc,
M.B., 1920-21.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D., - - - 1922.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1923.
PRESIDENT.
M. Oamille Flammariox.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hox. the Earl of B.\lfour,
KG., F.E.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir WiLLiAJi F. Barrett, F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt. 1).
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D. Litt., LL.D.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
W. W. Baggally.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Sir George Beilby, F.R.S., LL.D.
Captain Krnest N. Bennett.
W. Brown, M.D., D.Sc.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. McDougall, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B
T. W. Mitchell, RI.D.
COUNCIL.
Prof.Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,Litt.D.
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
Miss M. Radclyffe-Hall
W. H. Salter.
Mrs. W. H. Salter.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney G. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt.,LL.D.
W. Whately Smith.
V. J. WOOLLEY, M.D.
M. B. Wright, M.D.
EON. TREASURER.
W. H. Salter, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. L
EON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey,
v. J. WooLLEY, M.D., St. Thomas's Hospit.\l, London, S.E.
EON. EDITOR.
Mrs. W. H. Salter, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
RESEARCE OFFICER.
E. J. Dingwall, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
SECRETARY AND LIBRARIAN.
Miss I. Newton, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
AGENTS FOR AMERICA.
The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
2x
678 Members and Associates. [part
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
November, 1923.
President—M. Camille Flammabion.
Vice-Presidents.
The Right Hon. the Earl of Balfour, K.G., O.M., F.R.S., 4 Carlton
Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headmgton, Oxford.
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, Nr. Salisbury.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boar"s Hill,
Oxford.
J. G. Piddington, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Sydney C. Scott, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London,
W. 2.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S. ,
Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Honorary Members.
Su- William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 31 Devonshhe Place, London, W. 1.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratohe de
Physic|ue Generale, 12 rue Cuvier, Paris.
Miss Alice Johnson, Meadowside, Grantchester Meadow^s, Cam-
bridge.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Neue Rossstr., 16, bei Levy,
Berlin, S. 14.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 679
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeii-o.
Professor Henii Bergson, 32 Rue Vital, Paris.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W.
M. CamiLle Flammarion, Directeur de I'Observatoire, Juvisy, S.
et O., France.
\ Professor Dr. Freud, Berggasse 19, Vienna.
;'
President Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
\. . Professor Pierre Janet, 54 Rue de Varenne, VII% Paris.
"
Dr. C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E. Zurich, Switzerland.
Severin Lauritzen, Holte, Denmark.
M. Maurice Maeterlinck, Villa des Abeilles, Avenue des
Baumettes, Nice.
Professor Wm. Romaine Newbold, Ph.D., Univ. of Pemisylvania,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Dr. Morton Prince, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Walter F. Prince, c/o The American Society for Psychical
Research, 44 East 23rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de I'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 3 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Dr. Rudolf Tischner, Dietlmdendenstr., 16, Munich.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Dallas, Miss H. A., InnisfaU, Crawley, Sussex.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Institute Tecnico e Nautico,
Venice.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 63 Newbridge Road, Bath,
jr Gow, David, 5 Queen Square, Southampton Row, London, W.C. 1.
\ Grubb, Edward, 9 SoUershott West, Letchworth, Herts.
I Hill, J. Arthiu?, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
\. Muirhead, Professor J. H., The Rowans, BalsaU Common, Nr.
1 Coventry.
I Sage, M., 33 Rue de Coulmiers, XIV^ Arrt., Paris.
I StaweU, Miss F. Melian, 45a Arundel Gardens, Ladbroke Grove,.
'
London, W. 11.
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 21b SiLverdale Road, Eastbourne.
van Eeden, Frederik, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
680 Members and Associates. [part
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
Abernethy, Mrs., Hotel Rosat, Chateau d'Oex, Switzerland.
Acland-Hood, Lady Helena, 41 Cadogan Street, London, S.W. 3.
Adair, Desmond, Little Flixton, Forest Road, Worthing.
Adamson, T., 16 Dommion BuUdings, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
*Adshead, N. R., Larchwood, Hammerfield, Hemel Hempstead,
Herts.
*Agar, Mrs. J. S., c/o Messrs. Agar, Cross & Co., Carlton House,
11d Regent Street, London, S.W. 1.
Agelasto, Michael A., Armstead Bridge Court, Apt. 206, Armstead
Bridge Road, Norfolk, Va., U.S.A.
Aglen, F. A., Inspectorate General of Customs, Peking, China.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., Victoria University, Manchester.
Allan, Miss J., Torrance, East Kilbride, Lanarkshire.
Allan, Percy, M.D., Crogdene, Croham Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
Allen, Professor H. J., c/o The National Bank of India, 26 Bishops-
gate, London, E.C. 2.
Allen, William, M.B., 20 Sandyford Place, Glasgow.
*Allgood, Guy H., Nunwick, Humshaugh, Northumberland.
*Anderson, Lady, Ballydavid, Waterford, Ireland.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramliall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Brig. -General A. T., R.A., Low HUl House, Spetchley,
Worcester.
Anderson, Mrs. Henry C, 20 Hermitage Drive, Edinburgh.
*Andersson, C. R., Koping, Sweden.
Andrews, Dr. Marion B., 73 Shrubbery Avenue, Worcester.
Anstey, Lieut. -Colonel E. C, R.A., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16
Charing Cross, London, S.W. 1.
*Appleby, Joseph, Farnley, Great Crosby, Liverpool.
Armstrong, Charles W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
Armstrong, Miss M. M., 57 Redington Road, Hamj)stead, London,
N.W. 3.
Arnold, Mrs. A. E., 98 Masbro' Road, London, W. 14.
*Arnold-rorster, Mrs. H. 0., Basset Down, Swindon, Wilts.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 681
Ashcroft, Mrs., Ladies' Athenaeum Club, 32 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
*Ashcroft, Rev. Harold, Burwood, Waterford Road, Oxton, Birken-
head.
*Aspland, George D., 10 Elsworthy Road, London, N.W. 3.
*Assheton-Smith, Lady, 30 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
*Atcherley, J. R., c/o Mrs. Howling, White Horse Road, Croydon,
Victoria.
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. Lawence Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Auden, Harold A., Studley, Whitehedge Road, Garston, Liverpool.
Austen, Harold W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London,
W. 5.
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, Gate House, Northwood, Middlesex.
Baddeley, Miss Florence A., Cathedral House, Gloucester.
*Baggally, Wortley W., 7 SUlwood Place, Brighton.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
*Baha, M., c/o Librairie Ikbal, 2 Sublime Porte, Constantinople,
Turkey.
Bailde, W. S., Redroof, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
Bailey, Hon. Mabel, Hay Castle, Hay, by Hereford.
Baker, Alfred L., 141 S. La Salle Street, Chicago, III, U.S.A.
*Baker, Mrs. Charles, 39 Markham Square, London, S.W. 3.
*Baker, Miss Mabel, 21 Lansdowne Avenue, Slough, Bucks.
*Baldwin, Mrs., 1 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
*Balfour, Miss, 4 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Balfour, Right Hon. the Earl of, K.G., O.M., F.R.S., 4 Carlton
Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
* Balfour, Mrs. E. W. S., 65 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers HUl, Woking, Surrey.
*Bandon, Countess of, 12 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
*Banks, Rev. AKred J. Gayner, D.D., Eagle Pass, Texas, LT.S.A.
Banner, Mrs., Bishop's Court, Rochester, Kent.
*Barcellos, A. M. S., 77 Fort Street, Georgetown, British Guiana.
Barclay, Edwyn, 6 Egerton Place, London, S.W. 3.
*Barclay, Mi's. Edwyn, 6 Egerton Place, London, S.W. 3.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., Gladstone Hotel, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*Barkley, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., Ladies' Carlton Club, 8 Chesterfield Gardens,
Mayfair, London, W. 1.
682 Members and Associates. [part
*Barlow, Miss Katharine, 4 Maid of Honour Row, Richmond, Surrey.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Barrow, J. R., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street, London,
S.W. L
Baruch, Edgar, 563 I. W. Hellman Building, Los Angeles, CaL,
U.S.A.
Basden, Miss Isabel K., 21 The Drive, Hove, Sussex.
*Basu, N. K., Calcutta High Court, 12 Pataldanga Street, Calcutta.
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S., c/o Lloyds Bank, 9 Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Bates, J. Edwin, M.B., 55 Murray Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring, Herts.
*Batty, Mrs. V. Roy, 40 Harley House, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1724 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Bayfield, L. Arthur.
*Bazett, Miss L. Margery, The Firs, Redhill, Surrey.
*Beadon, Mrs., at 11 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton, 44 Bedford Court Mansions, London, W.C. 2.
*Beckett, W. N., D.S.C., Lieut. R.N., H.M.S. Ramilles, c/o G.P.O.
*Beenhouwer, J., 16 Sarphatistraat, Amsterdam, Holland.
*Behrens, CajDtain Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward.
*Beilby, Sir George, F.R.S., LL.D., 11 University Gardens, Glasgow.
IBelaribi, Mrs.
Bell, Miss Alison H., Traquair, Chorley Wood, Herts.
*Bell, Dr. Mary C, 3 Albany Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
*Benedict, Professor H. Y., 3401 Guada Cupe Street, Austin, Texas,
U.S.A.
Bennett, Colin N., Escot, Penzance, Cornwall.
*Beimett, Captain E. N., 12 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Bennett, Captain John G., 25 Panmuir Road, Wimbledon,
London, S.W. 20.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 65 Cornhill,
London, E.G. 3.
Benson, Arthur C, C.V.O., The Old Lodge, Magdalene College
Cambridge.
*Benson, E. F., 25 Brompton Square, London, S.W. 3.
Lxxxviii.] Members and Associates. 683
Benton, Dr. J. R., 1436 West University Avenue, Gainesville,
Florida, U.S.A.
*Bentley, W. P., 4214 Swiss Avenue, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
*Berens, Mrs., 30 Chester Square, London, S.W. 1
*Berestord, J. D., 1 St. James' Terrace, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 8.
Berrington, Rev. Leslie G., Churchover Rectory, Rugby.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London,
W. 1.
*Bertie, L. W. H., M.A., The Nook, 110 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
*Best, C. S., 13 Queen Square, Leeds.
Betton, C. Steuart, 28 The Drive, West Worthing, Sussex.
Bevan, Ai'thur O., Townsend House, Nantwich, Cheshire.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, HUls Road, Cambridge.
*Bigg, Miss Louisa, 18 Acacia Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Ringwood, Hants.
*Bird, Mrs. Francis William, East Walpole, Mass., U.S.A.
Black, Mrs., 24 Abbey Buildings, Tower Bridge Road, London,
S.E. 1
Bla^ckburn, A. J., Ai'uba House, The Leazes, Burnopfield, Durham.
Blacklock, Miss C, Lewie, Ditchling, Hassocks, Sussex,
Blane, Miss Edith H., 18 Blenheim Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Blathwajrt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
Bligh, Stanley M., 28 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
Bloemfontein, The Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of, Bishop's Lodge,
Bloemfontein, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Bois, H. G., c/o Messrs. Robertson Bois & Co., 12 Fenchurch
Street, London, E.C. 3.
*Bolam, J. G., 21 Affleck Street, Gateshead, Durham.
*Bolton, Edward J., Wood Bank, Oakamoor, N. Staffs.
*Bond, F. Bligh, F.R.I.B.A., 39 York Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
*Bond, Major W. C, O.B.E., Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
Bond, Mi's. W. C, Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
*Bonus, A. R., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 38 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
684 Meynbers and Associates. [part
*Boustead, Mrs. J. M., c/o Messrs. Boustead Bros., 5 Fenchurch
Street, London, E.G.
Bouwens, B. G., Old Manor House, Littleton, Shepperton, Middlesex.
Bouyalsky, Jean de, 25 Rue Jules Franqui, Brussels, Belgium.
Bowden-Smith ,
Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
*Bowen, O. H., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Gwynant, Peak's Hill, Purley,
Surrey.
Bower, James Garton, Earlham House, Norwich.
*Bowyer, Lieut-Colonel W. G., Weston Manor, Olney, Bucks.
*Bowyer, Mrs. W. G., Weston Manor, Olney, Bucks.
Box, Alfred Marshall, c/o Lancashire and Yorkshire Bank,
Huddersfield.
Boxer, Miss Cecile F., Firwood, Alum Chine, West Bournemouth.
Boxer, Major H. C, Firwood, Alum Chine, West Bournemouth.
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., Langham House, Wallington.
*Bracht, Federico, Cangallo 466, Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic.
*Bradley, Miss A. A., Bradley Hill, Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
Bradley, Professor A. C, 54 Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Bradley, F. H., Merton College, Oxford.
*Braithwaite, Lieut.-General Sir Walter P., K.C.B., c/o Messrs.
Cox & Co., 16 Charing Cross, London, S.W. 1.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.G. 3.
Bray, F. E., 21 Evelyn Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Bridges, Mrs., 8 Sloane Terrace Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
Brierley, Mrs. D. F., 21 Woodville Gardens, Ealing, London, W. 5.
*Brinton, R. S., Croft House, Kidderminister.
Bristowe, The Hon. L. S., Le Chalet, Fermain Bay, Guernsey.
*Broad, C. D., Litt.D., The University, Bristol.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, Colonel C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
*Brooke, Mrs. Hastings, 28 Collingham Place, London, S.W. 5.
*Brooke, John R., 1 Mitre Court Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
*Brooks, R. Birkett, R.N., Glendale, 49 Surrey Road, Bournemouth.
Brown, Captain A. D. Burnett, M.C., Greenliurst, Beaconsfield,
Bucks.
Lxxxvm.] Members and Associates. 685
*Brown, Miss A. M., 13 Beaufort Road, Clifton, Bristol.
*Brown, B. G., 10 St. Paul's Road, Cambridge.
*Brown, B. H. Irmess, 226 West 59th Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Brown, Charles, M.B., Tinto Bank, Kirkcaldy.
Brown, Mrs. Frank Clifton, Stanford Place, Faringdon, Berks.
*Brown, Haydn, L.R.C.P., 30 Cavendish Square, London, W. 1.
*Bro^vn, Wm., M.A., M.D., D.Sc, M.R.C.P., 80 Harley Street,
London, W. 1.
*Brown, W. Forster, Tlie Grove House, Caversham, Readmg, Berks.
Browne, Professor Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cam-
bridge.
*Browne, Rev. Geoffrey E., Clergy House, Khartoum (Sudan),
Egypt.
*Browne, O. H., Hyderabad, Deccan, India..
*Bruce, Rev. F. D., The Vicarage, Penryn, Cornwall.
*Bryans, G., Court Royal, King's Clilfe, Brighton.
*Bubb, Henry, J.P., UUenwood, near Cheltenham.
*Buchan, Mrs. J., Elsfield Manor, Oxford.
*Buist, Mrs., Swalcliffe Lea, Banbury, Oxon.
BuUard, Dr. W. N., 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
BuUer, Professor A. H. Regmald, University of Manitoba, Wmnipeg,
Canada.
*Bulley, IMrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
*Bullough, Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Burnett, Miss Ethel, Crathes Castle, Crathes, N.B.
Burnham, Mrs., 23 Church Road, Southbourne, Hants.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Burrard, Mrs. Charles, c/o Lloyds BanJc, Ivnightsbridge Branch,
Brompton Road, London, S. W. 1.
*Burt, Mrs. William G., 1501 Asbury Avenue, Evanston, 111., U.S.A.
Burton, Mrs. Harry, 25 via dei Bardi, Florence, Italy.
*Bury, Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Boiirnemouth.
*Bush, E., Wnisill, Patelej^ Harrogate, Yorks.
Bushell, Miss S. D., The Hermitage, Harrow-on-the-Hill.
"Busk, ]\Irs., 6 Wadham Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, Rocke House, Exmouth, Devon.
*Butt, Lady, c/o London Joint City and Midland Bank, South
Kensington Branch, Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
686 Members and Associates. [part
Butterworth, Miss A. M., 9 Husldsson Street. Liverpool.
Caccda, Major A. M., 7 Norham Gardens, Oxford.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Caird, Mrs. Henryson, 34 Woronzow Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W. 8.
Cairns, Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
*Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe HUl Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Glendaruel, Colintraive, Argyll-
shire.
*Campbell, Mrs., Arduaine, Lochgilphead, N.B.
Campbell, Colin E., 9 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Campbell, Mrs. E. Kenneth, Millfield, Wittersham, Kent.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., Christ Church Vicarage, Westminster,
London, S.W. L
*Campbell-Lang, Miss, Craig Lora, Connel, Argyllshire.
Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road East, London, E. L
Candler, Miss M. I., 37 Commercial Road East, London, E. L
*Carden, W. A., M.R.C.S., Bothaville, O.F.S., S. Africa.
*Carleton, Mrs. F. M., Westmeads, Butler's Marston, Kineton.
*Carpenter, Mrs., 43 Teignmouth Road, Cricklewood, London,
N.W. 2.
Carrington, Hereward, Ph.D., 504 West 111th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
Carruthers, Mi's W., c/o Bank of Montreal, 9 Waterloo Place, Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Carter, Mrs. H. A., Mena House, St. Erth, Hayle, Cornwall.
Case, Miss A. J., 35 Elm Bank Mansions, Barnes, London,
S.W. 13.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, Scotland.
Cave, Captain A. L., Sherwood, Newton St. C3n:'es, Devon.
*Cave, Charles J. P., Stoner Hill, Petersfield, Hants.
Chadwick, Mrs. Ellis, St. Moritz, Parkstone, Dorset.
-Chadwick, Miss M. W., 6 Guildford Place, London, W.C. 1.
*Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
*Chance, Colonel H.. Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
* Chapman, C. F., Sussex Lodge, Kmgston HUl, Surrey.
Chapman, E. G., Belsize, Friern Watch Avenue, N. Finchley,
London, N. 12.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 687
*Chapman, Captain R. V., Junior Army and Navy Club, Horse
Guards' Avenue, Whitehall, London, S.W. 1
Charles, Clifford P., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 23 Kensington Square, London, W. 8.
Chattock, Arthur P., D.Sc, Heathfield Cottage, Crowcombe, Nr.
Taunton, Somerset.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 64 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H., The Wyche Cottage, Malvern.
Chitty, Hubert, M.S., M.B., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton, Bristol.
Chubb, Mrs. C. A., Longforgan, The Ridgway, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
Clark, Mrs. Cecil.
* Clark, Captain C. C, Kilrie, North Berwick, N.B.
Clark, Rev. F. H. H., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
*Clark, Major Stanley, SO Bishopsgate, London, E.C. 2.
*Clarke, Eno E., 3 Prince's Gardens, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, The Ship Hotel, Crediton, Devon.
Clarkson, Mrs. St. John, 8 Milner Street, Cadogan Square, London,
S.W. L
Clay, The Hon. Mrs., 11 Tite Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Clive, Hon. Hem'ietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 2200 Nineteenth Street, N.W., Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
*Clwyd, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
*Cochrane, Miss Jessie, Aban Court Hotel, Ashburn Place, London,
S.W. 7
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., The Rectory, Swinford, Co. Mayo, Ireland.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Collins, Miss M., 29 Glenluce Road, Blacldaeath, London, S.E. 3.
*Collis, Miss Beatrix, 74 Walton Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D., 1 Holland Villas Road, London, W. 14.
Compton, Henry, 1709 SUls Street, Fort WUliam, Ontario, Canada.
*Conn, Emmett Higbee, M.D., 807 North Mariposa Avenue, Los
Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
*Connor, Rev. John M., D.S.O., St. Andrew's Scottish Soldiers'
Club, Aldershot.
*Constable, F. C, GrenvUle, Lansdown, Bath.
Conway, Lady, 47 Romney Street, London, S.W. 1
688 Members and Associates. [part
*Cook, A. G. H., The Villa, Washington, Co. Durham.
Cooper, Rev. F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Mrs. P. H., 283 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
*Coote, J. F., The White House, Coltishall, Norwich.
Cornford, Rev. Bruce, 43 Havelock Road, Portsmouth.
Cornish, J. Easton, The Water Works, Alexandria, Egypt.
*Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, Campden Hill, London, W. 8
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Councillor of State, 59 Koning-
innegracht. The Hague.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W. L
*Cotterell, Miss Alice, 1g Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W. L
*Courage, Mrs., The Mount, Ifield, Crawley, Sussex.
*Cowan, Sir W. H., M.P., The Crow's Nest, Fairwarp, Uckfield,
Sussex.
Cox, Mrs. Rowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Coxe, Henry R. H., Osendyke, Watlington, Oxon.
Cozens, J. C, Brigus, Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
Craufurd, Commander Quentin C. A., R.N., c/o Admiralty, London,
S.W. 1.
*Creasy, Mrs. L., 144 Gloucester Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
*Creasy, Mrs., 23 Pembridge Mansions, Moscow Road, London, W. 2.
*Cromer, Katharine, Countess of, 29 Marlborough Place, London,
N.W. 8.
Crook, A. H., 4 Torres Buildings, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
*Crosfield, J. J., 13 Melbury Road, London, W. 14.
*Crosfield, Miss M. C, LTndercroft, Reigate, Surrey.
Crouch, H. N., Summerfield, Weston Park, Bath.
*Cunliffe, Walter R., 34, The Grove, Boltons, London, S.W. 10.
*Curnow, Leslie, Hampden Club, London, N.W. 1.
*Currie, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W. 1.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 53 Romney Street, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
Curzon of Kedieston, The Earl, Hackwood, Basingstoke, Hants.
Dale, J. Gilbert, 68 Holland Park, Kensington, London, W. 11.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
*Danson, F. C, 74 Bidston Road, Birkenhead.
*D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 689
*Davies, Benjamin, Wiiford, Chase Green Avenue, Enfield, Middlesex.
*Davies, D. Berrington G., J. P., Parcygors, Llechryd, Cardiganshire.
Davies, Mrs. G. R., Glenlaggan, Parton, N.B.
Davies, Miss M. H. Lloyd, Lynton, Curzon Road, Hoylake, Cheshire.
*Davies, Vincent, 9 Mervyn Road, West Ealing, London, W. 13.
* Davis, Mrs. Kennard.
Davis, Romney R., Old Grove House, The Grove, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Davis, Mrs., 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
Davison, Miss Annie, 4 Ranelagh Grove, Pimlico Road, London,
S.W. L
*Davison, Miss R., Milverton, Wilmslow Road, Alderley Edge,
Manchester.
Davys, Lieut. -Colonel G. I., O.B.E., I.M.S., c/o Messrs. Grindlay
& Co., Hornby Road, Bombay, India.
Dawes, Mrs. Frank, 11a Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Dawson, Lt. -Colonel Henry P., Hartlington Hall, Skipton.
Day, Rev. Dr. E. H., Newton House, Belmont, Hereford.
Day, Miss Mabel K., 15 Elgin Court, Elgin Avenue, London, W. 9.
Dearmer, Rev. Dr. Percy, 9 Embankment Gardens, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
De Gramont, Comte A., 179 Rue de I'Universite, Paris, France.
*De Grave, Miss D. M., Pioneer Club, 12 Cavendish Place, London,
W. 1.
*De Gravelles, C. C, M.D., Belanger Building, Morgan City, La.,
U.S.A.
Deichmann, Baroness, Abbey Lodge, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
De Jong, Dr. K. H. E., Beeklaar, 356, The Hague.
*De Koven, Mi's. Anna F., 1025 Park Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Deland, Mrs. Lorin F., 35 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Delap, Alfred D., Priorsland, Carrickmines, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Denny, Rev. H. L. L., St. Mark's Vicarage, 66 Myddelton Square,
London, E.G. 1.
De Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid.
*Dewar, Lady, The Old Farm, Havant, Hants.
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, Scotland.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, Aiiena Towers, Ramsey, N.J., U.S.A.
Dickie, H. Elford, British Consulate-General, Louren^o Marques,
Portuguese East Africa.
690 Members and Associates. [part
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., 3a Clareville Grove, London, S.W. 7, and
Poultry Court, Painswick, Gloucestershire. >
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, R.A., 3 Greville Place, London, N.W., 6.
*Dingv/all, E. J., 73 Corringham Road, Hampstead Garden Suburb,
London, N.W. IL
*Dingwall, Mrs. E. J., 73 Corringham Road, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. IL
*Diver, Mrs., 7 Leinster Square, Bayswater, London, W. 2.
* Dixon, Edward T.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St. Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
*Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park
Terrace, HilUiead, Glasgow, W.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Burlington, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Doe, George M., Enfield, Great Torrington, N. Devon.
Donne, Mi-s., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Wliitehall Place, London,
S.W. L
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., 5 East 88th Street, New York, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Dove, J. S., R.N., Hale House, Ockley, Surrey.
Dowson, Mrs., Landhurst Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
*Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex.
Drew, Ruigrose C, Tampin, Negri Sembilan, Federated Malay
States.
Drewry, Mi-s. George, 4 Calverley Park, Tunbridge Wells.
Driesch, Professor Dr. Hans, ZoUnerstrasse 1, Leipzig.
*Duff, J. R. K., 100 Sunningfields, Hendon, London, N.W. 9.
*Duncan, Harold M., The Chestnuts House, Parkside, Wimbledon
Common, London, S.W. 19.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunne, D. P., Yetholme, Liverpool Road, Birkdale, Southport.
*Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
*Earle, Hon. Mrs. Maxwell, 24 Lower Sloane Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Eckstein, Mrs., 18 Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., 8 Beach Lawn, Waterloo, Nr. Liverpool.
Edie, H. S. Ker, c/o Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus,
London, E.C. 4.
*Elder, Frederick, 21 Essex Villas, Kensington, London, W. 8.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 691
Eldred, Paymaster-Captain E. H., R.N., Myrtle Cottage, Port-
chester, Fareham, Hants.
*Ellersha\v, Major Hemy, R.A.F:, 124 Pembroke Eoad, Clifton,
Bristol.
*Ellerton, Mrs. B., Cleve Hall, Champion Hill, London, S.E. 5.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blackfriars Road, London, S.E. 1.
Elliot, IVIrs. Gilbert, 10 Regent's Park Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
*Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W. 3.
*Engelbregt, P. A. L., c/o Shell Co. of California, 343 Sansome
Street, San Francisco, Cal., LT.S.A.
Eno, H. L., Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Entee, Professor B. A., Samaldas College, Bhavnagar, India.
*Enthoven, Mrs. F. V., 33 Cambridge Square, London, W. 2.
Everard, Captain H. N., R.A.M.C.
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Farrer, H. M., 81 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W. 1.
*Faustuius, F., Sondre Fasanvej 97", Valby, Copenliagen, Den-
mark.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W 1.
Felkin, Llrs., 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
Fergusson, Rev. A. W., The Manse, Dundee.
*Fernald, Mrs. C. B., 4 Marlborough Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Fforde, Hon. Mr. Justice, High Court, Lahore, Punjab, India.
*Findlay, J. Arthur, Stansted Hall, Stansted, Essex.
*Fisher, Mrs. C. D. Corbett, 8 Heathgate, London, N.W. 11.
Fisk, Rev. George, c/o The Kailan Mming Admmistration, Cliin-
wangtao, Chihli, N. China.
*Fitch, Hugh B., 31 Campden Grove, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Fleetwood-Hesketh, Major C. H., Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oaldaam,
Rutlandshire.
*Fletcher, L. S., 3 Dr. Johnson's Buildmgs, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
*Flint, Mrs., Baynards, Watford, Herts.
Fliigel, J. C, 11 Albert Road, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
Footner, Mrs., 187 Ebury Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Ford, Mrs., 126 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Forman, Josef, c/o American Express Co., 11 rue Scribe, Paris.
Forman, Colonel R. H., 36 Fitzjohn's Avenue, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
692 Members and Associates. [part
Fortescue, Miss Francis, Canada Cottage, Ipplepen, Newton Abbot,
S. Devon. ^
Foster, Mrs., Garland, Nelson, B.C., Canada.
^Foster; Nevile, 134 Wigmore Street, Portman Square, London, W. 1.
Fotheringham, W. B., 17 Upper High Street, Worthing.
*Foulger, Howson R., 26 Hyde Park Square, London, W. 2.
*Foxcroft, Miss H. C, Hinton Charterhouse, Bath.
*Francis, Mrs. Francis.
FranJslin, The Hon. Mrs., 50 Porchester Terrace, London, W. 2.
Franks, Mrs., 51 Dacre Hill, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
Freeman, Rev. H. B., The Vicarage, Burton-on-Trent, Staffs.
*French, Major Alexander W., T.D., M.R.C.S., Medical Officer's
House, Princetown, Dartmoor. ,
*Frith, Mrs., 19 Philbeach Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Frost, Lowell C, M.D., 1905 Vista Street, Hollywood, Los Angeles,
Cal., U.S.A.
Frostick, J. A., C.B.E., 381 Papanui Road, Christchurch, New
Zealand. .
*Fry, Miss Agnes, FaUand House, Failand, near Bristol.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Fryer, Mrs. F., 9 St. Peter's Grove, York.
*Fulton, Mrs. Hamilton, 35 The Close, Salisbury.
Gabb, F. B., at 70 Avondale Road, South Croydon, Surrey.
Gage, Lyman J., Point Loma, Cal., U.S.A.
Gantz, Mrs., 3 South Place, Letchworth, Herts.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 187 Maui Street, Northampton, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Garfit, Mrs. E. C, Renardia Farm, Gadzema, S. Rhodesia.
*GaskeU, Mrs. J. B., Roseleigh, Woolton, Liverpool.
Gatliff, H. E. C, The Treasury, Whitehall, London, S.W. 1.
*Geiger, P. J., 643 Land Title Buildmg, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Gellert, J. W., c/o Box 396, G.P.O., Adelaide, S. Australia.
*George, Mrs., Cottage on the Linlcs, Hindliead, Surrey.
*George, H. Trevelyan, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 33 Ampthill Square,
London, N.W. 1.
*Gibbes, Miss Beatrice, 170 Brompton Road, London, S.W. 3.
*Gibbins, Mi's. C. E., 61 Montpelier Road, Brighton.
Gibson, Professor W. R. Boyce, D.Sc, Ennerdale, Tower Street,
Surrey Hills, Melbourne, Australia.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. G93
*Gillett, J. A., Woodgreen, Banbury.
Gilson, R. Gary, King Edward's School, Birmingham.
*Ginwala, F. J., 373 Hornby Road, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Gu"dlestone, IVIrs. Frank, The Bridge House, Sible Hedingham,
Essex.
Girod, Madame, 4 Avenue Hoche, Paris.
*Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, 58 Renfield Street,
~ Glasgow.
Glasson, J. W., I.C.S., Glanusk, Soy, Kenya Colony.
Gledstone, Miss May, 73 Gleneldon Road, Streatham, London,
S.W. 16.
Glenny, Mrs. G. C., Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle.
Glover, Cedric H., 35 Albert Road, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 8.
Goedliart, P., Koningen Maria Straat 18, The Hague.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de, Clarefield, Pinkney's Green, Maiden-
head, Berks.
^GoUedge, V. F. Hedworth, Hazlewood Lodge, Enfield.
Gooch, G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W. 8.
*Goodden, Mrs. Robert, 5 Kingsgate Street, Winchester.
*Goossens, Mrs. F. W., 14 Aynsley Court, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada.
*Gordon, Dr. Mary, c/o National Provincial and Union Bank of
England, 55 High Street, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Gough, A. B., Ph.D., 23 Bazham Road, Sevenoaks, Kent.
*Gould, Miss v., 28 St. James's Road, Tunbridge Wells.
*Goulden-Bach, Mrs., 2 Elsham Road, Kensington, London, W. 14.
*Gover, J. M., K.C., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Lm, London,
W.C. 2.
*Gowan, Commander C. H. B., R.N., Brackenwood, Ivy Hatch,
Nr. Sevenoaks.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
C4rahame, Miss Helen, p. a. Col. Franz Fluck, Muzeum Koriit 18,
III emelet, Budapest, Hungary.
*Grant-Suttie, Major H. F., R.A., The Staff College, Camberley,
Surrey.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., Riviere House, Phillack, Hayle, Cornwall.
Green, JMrs., Northcott, Chesham Bois, Bucks.
*Greenwood, L. H. G., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Grenfell, Prof. B. P., Queen's College, Oxford.
694 Members and Associates. [part
*Gienfell. Field-Marshal Lord, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., St. Rode,
Bournemouth.
Grew, J. C, c/o American Legation, Berne, Switzerland.
Grey, E. H., Windermere, Belmont Avenue, Wickford, Essex.
*Grey, R. C, Ballycogoran, Killaloe, Co. Clare, Ireland.
*Grey, Viscountess, 4 Buckingham Street, London, S.W. 1.
Grignon, Miss A. E., 41 FUton Avenue, Horfield, Bristol.
Grottendieck, W. G., Charlotte de Bourbon Str. 8, The Hague.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, Suffolk.
*Gunnell, A. Mortimer, F.R.A.I., F.R.Met.Soc, Broomfield Park
College, New Southgate, London, N. IL
*Guttwoch, Charles, c/o Ewing House, Chiswell Street, London,
E.C. L
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
*Hackett, James T., c/o Bank of Adelaide, 11 Leadenhall
Street, London, E.C.
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, 56a Beadon Street, Calcutta.
*Hall, Alexander F., Tettenliall College, Staffs.
*Hall, Captain Basil, R.N., 96 Beaufort Mansions, London, S.W. 3.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
Hambro, Lady, 4 Norfolk Street, Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, Hamilton Palace, Lanark-
shire.
Hamilton, J. J.
Hamilton, W. Bernard.
Hammond, Miss Wmifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland,
Oregon, U.S.A.
Hannes, Mrs., 48 Bedford Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Hanson, Mrs., Pleasaunce Cottage, Dormans Park, Siurey.
*Hare, Dr. A. W., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
Harper, Miss E. K., The Apple Gate, Coombe Hill Farm, Nr.
Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
Harriman, T. G., M.D., 2500 East 2nd Street, Long Beach, Calif.,
U.S.A.
*Harrington, E. J., 55 Capel Street, Forest Gate, London, E. 7.
Harris, Alan C, c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place Vendome,
Paris.
*Harris, Lady, 98 Gloucester Terrace, London, W. 2.
Harris, Mrs. W. F., The Willows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 695
Harrison, William, 17 Tiiiemont Road, Croydon, Surrey.
*Hart, Mrs. H. Burcham, Eshott, Eastbury Road, Northwood,
Middlesex.
Hart, Mrs. H. H., H.B. " Zephyr," Srinigar, Kashmir, India.
Hart, General Sii- Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O., 39 West
Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
Harvey, G. H., P.O. Box 254, Quebec, Canada.
*Haslam, Oliver H., Cairngill, Nr. Dalbeattie, Kirkcudbrightshire,
N.B.
Hassan, Princess Aziza, 139 Mahmoudia, Alexandria, Egypt.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancashire.
Hauxliurst, Mrs. W., c/o Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place Vendome,
Paris.
Hawker, Mrs. George, 9 Thurloe Square, London, S.W. 7.
Hawker, Miss Elizabeth, 9 Thurloe Square, London, S.W. 7.
Hawley, Miss Zoe, 129 Church Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Hay, Miss Cecilia E. C, 30 Tite Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Hayes, Rev. Joseph W., Towerville, Dalcot Crescent, Loughton,
Essex.
*Hayley, Guy W., 17 Cleveland Square, London, W. 2.
Head, Miss Alice L., 42 Aldridge Road Villas, Westbourrie Park,
London, W. 11.
*Heape, Mrs. Walter, Manor Lodge, Bishop's Down, Tunbridge
Wells, Kent.
Heard, G. H., Percy Villa, Front Street, Tynemouth.
Heath, George H., 5 Roughdomi, Boxmoor, Herts.
Heaton, Guy, 51 Westcliff Road, Bournemouth.
Hedley, Dr. E. P., Pretoria, S. Africa.
*Heijer, Dr. J. C, 61 Stadhouderskade, Amsterdam, Holland.
Heller, Rabbi James G., 3634 Readmg Road, Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus, Readville, Mass., U.S.A.
Henderson, J. J., 811 President Street, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
Henrici, Jacob, 201-203 Chestnut Street. Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Argyll Villas, Cheltenliam.
*Herberstein, Count J. Hemy of, 10 Kecskemeti utcza, Budapest,
Hungary.
696 Members and Associates. [part
Herriot, Miss E. ¥., 2 Sunningdale Gardens, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
*Herrmann, Oscar, 215 West 90th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Hesketh, Thomas, 42 Castle Hill Avenue, Folkestone, Kent.
*Hichens, Mrs. Cyril, The Almners, Lyne, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Hichens, Mrs. W. Lionel, 15 Buckingham Palace Gardens, London,
S.W. 1.
*Hicks, Rev. F. E., St. Anne's Vicarage, Birkenhead.
Hildyard, F. W., 14 Lambridge, Bath.
Hillman, E. Haviland, Haus-am-Muhlbach, Wettersteinstrasse.
Partenkirchen, Germany.
*Hillman, Hugh H., White Cross, Banwell, Somerset.
Hills, Miss H. D., 58 Lupus Street, St. George's Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Hoare, Fred H., 37 Fleet Street, London, E.G. 4.
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London,
W. 1.
Hobart-Hampden, Rev. A. K., 6b Roland Houses, London;
S.W. 7.
*Hobson, Walter D., Tan-y-Bryn, Bangor, N. Wales.
*Hockliffe, Mrs. Ernest, 15 Ridgmount Gardens, London, W.C. 1
Hodding. Miss, 28 The Close, Salisbury.
*Hodson, L. J., LL.B., The Mil] House, Robertsbridge, Sussex.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, The LTnlversity of the Witwater-
sand, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
*Hogg, Henry R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W. 8
Hoggan, Mrs. Frances, M.D., 22 Harrington Road, London, S.W. 7.
*Hole, Rev. Donald, St. James' Lodge, Fulham Palace Road, Loncion,
S.W. 6.
Holder, Henry L., Monkbarns, Wheatlands Road, Harrogate.
Holding, Sam, Columbia, Tenn., U.S.A.
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W. 11
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., 57 Winipole Street, London, W. 1.
*Hol]ick, Captain A. J.. Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
*Hollick, Mrs. A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
*Hollins, Miss H. M. M., J. P., Melton Lodge, Great Malvern.
Hollins, Mi-s. A. E., Dunsfold Rectory, Godalming, Surrey.
Holme, Strachan, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
Holmes, Miss Lilian, Critchfield, Bosham, Sussex.
*Holms, A. Campbell, 23 Sefton Drive, Liverpool.
Lxxxvm.] Members and Associates. 697
*Holmyard, R., 5 Hedgerow Lane, Clifton, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Holt. Henry, 19 West 44th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Holt, IVIiss M. D., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Homan, C. H., 12 Sogaden, Christiania, Xorway.
Home, Mss Georgina, Halcj-on Club, 13/14 Cork Street, London,
! w. 1.
Home, MLss Mary M., 34 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
*Home, jNIrs. Robert, Leyton, Grassington Road, Eastbourne.
Home, Walter, CLE., 34 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
Hookham, Philip, Shottery Cottage, Shottery, Stratford-on-Avon.
Hopkinson, ]\Irs., EUerslie, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Hoppin, J. C, 26 Central Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Hornberger, J. B. L., 5413 Stanton Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. U.S.A.
Horridge, jMiss J. G., 43 Alexandra Road, Southport.
*Horsfield, H., 108 Everton Road, Chorlton-on-Medlock, I\Ian-
chester.
*Horwood, C. Baring, D.Sc, F.C.S., Royal Automobile Club, Pall
MalL London, S.W. 1.
*Hoseason, A. G., The Bungalow, Tanworth-in-Ai'den, Nr. Bir-
mingham.
Hotblack, Frank A., Kaslo, 3 Burton Villas, Hove, Sussex.
Howden, Mrs., 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
*Howe]l, Mis., Ethy, Lostwithiel, Cornwall.
*Howell, ]\Irs. PhUip, 5 Carlyle Square, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Hov^-grave-Graham, Captain A. H., M.C., Box 59, Randfontein,
Transvaal.
Hubbard, IMrs. Cyril, New Lodge, Coleman's Hatch, Sussex.
Hudson, Miss Alice, Meads Court, Eastbourne.
Hudson, Miss Katie E., Meads Co;irt, Eastbourne.
*Hudson, Morris, St. Cuthbert's, Bathampton, Somerset,
Hughes, Professor Alfred, Eastnor House, Malvern Link.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., Mendip House, Headtngton Hill, Oxford.
Humphreys, E. Noel, Caerycaee, Hoole, Chester.
Humphreys, T. H. A.
Hunkin, Rev. J. W., M.C., C.F., 126 Huntmgdon Road, Cambridge.
Hur^vitz, W. A., PhD., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St. Albans, Herts.
*Hutchmson, W. D., Chesa Rocco, Celerina, Engadine, Switzerland.
*Hyland, C. W., Ph.C, 300 Commissioner Street, Johannesbiirg
East, Transvaal.
698 Members and Associates. [part
*Hyslop, George H., M.D., 143 Twenty-Second Street, Jackson
Heights, Long Island, New York, U.S.A.
Imaruura, Prof. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial Univer-
sity, Kioto, Japan.
Ince, Miss Gladys, P.O. Box No. 14, Madras, S. India.
*Ingham, Charles B., 6 Addison Crescent, Kensington, London,
W. 14.
Innes, C. E., 31 Randolph Crescent, London, W. 9.
Innes, Miss H. K., 4 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, Glos.
Isaac, Miss Edith, The Lodge, Kempsey, Worcester.
Jacks, L. P., LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
James, Brig. -General C. H. L., C.B., United Service Club, London,
S.W. 1.
*James, Major E. A. H., Newtown, Newbury, Berks.
James, Henry, 10 East 10th Street, New York, U.S.A.
James, IMrs. Joseph, Southwood, Barnt Green, Birmingham.
*James, Miss S. Boucher, 2 Whitehall Court, London, S.W.I.
*Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
Jaye, William R., Moray House, Ryde, I.W.
*Jeboult, F. M., 19 Edith Villas, West Kensington, London, W. 14.
*Jekyll, Miss D., 17 Nevern Mansions, Earls Court, London, S.W. 5.
Jenkmson, W. E., Lower Willow Hall, Sowerby Bridge, Yorks.
.Jennings-Bramly, Mrs., Hampton Court Palace, Middlesex.
Jennings-Bramly, Mrs., Boarstall Tower, Brill, Bucks.
*Jephson, Miss S., 35 Richmond Road, London, W. 2.
Jeschke, H.
Johnson, Charles R., 340 Main Street, Worcester. Mass., U.S.A.
Johnson, Miss F. C, 25 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
Johnson, Mrs., Abbot's Bay, Nr. Keswick.
*Johnstone, Hon. Gilbert, 43 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Johnston, R. F., The Forbidden City, Peking, China.
*Johnston, Dr. William B., 5 Garden Terrace, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
* Jones, Miss F. E., 89 Marylebone High Street, London, W. 1.
*Jones, Mrs. Gordon, 54 Stratford Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Jones, J. Herbert, Wallasey Villa, Mount Street, Menai Bridge,
Anglesea.
Lxxxvin.] Members and Associates. 699
*Jones, Sir Lawence J., Bart., 39 Harrington. Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
*Jordan-Smitli, Benjamin, Orchardlea. Grosvenor Road, Caversham,
Reading.
*Judah, Noble B.
Judd, IV'Irs. Sylvestre Dwight, 163 Maple Street, Maiden, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Kellet, Mi's. Kelsall, Hurst, Burwash, Sussex.
*Kellogg, Mi's. Branton, 45 Carlton Street. Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
Kellj^. Miss Eleanor B., Vv^indy Harbour, Ashwell, Baldock, Hert;-:.
*Kelso, Captain, R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester, Essex.
Kenneth, H., Lindley, BycuUah Park, Enfield, Middlesex.
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
Ker, Miss, Napier Lodge, Strathblane, Glasgow.
*Kerans, Lieut. -Colonel G. C. L., St. Kilda, Birr, Ireland.
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
*Ker-Seymer; Mrs., 12 St. Leonard's Terrace, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Kershaw, IMi's. Ronald H., Seacourt, Hayling Island, Hants.
*Kimber, J. F. C, The Gate House, Eashing, Godalming, Surrey.
*King, Louis M., c/o British Consulate-General, Ichang, Chma.
King, Miss R. Estelle, 19 Highfield Road. Edgbaston, Bii'mingham.
*King, H. F. Locke, J. P., Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey.
*King, Dr. W. A. D., 1 Bishop's Place, Paignton, Devon.
*Kingscote, Mrs., 4 Southwick Crescent, London, W. 2.
*Kmgsford, Miss S. M., Esher Cottage, Rickett's Hill, Tatsfield,
Westerham, Kent.
*Kingsley, Mrs., 14 Belsize Avenue, London; N.W. 3.
Ku-kham, T. A., 38 Bedford Row, London, W.C. 1.
Kittermaster, Rev. Digby B., Dame Armstrong House, Harrow-
on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Knight, Charles N., 7 Marlborough Buildings, Bath.
*Knoblock, Edward, G2, The Albany, Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Konig, Mrs. F. A., 44 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
*Korenchevsky, Professor V., Lister Institute of Preventive Medi-
cine, Chelsea Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Laing, R. M., " Ogilvie," Cashmere Hill-., Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George. D.Sc, 65 Glis'~;on Road, Cambridge.
700 Members and Associates. [part
Lambert, G. W., 86 Chester Square, London, S.W'. 1.
*Langford, J. C. C, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, E.G. L
*Larken, E. P.. 98 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 14.
Latshaw, Allen, Berwyn, Penn, U.S.A.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Mrs. A. H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London,
S.W. L
*Leaf, F. A., Lincoln House, Harrow-on-the -Hill, Middlesex.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. L
*Leaning, Mrs. S., Elmstead, Epsom Lane, Tadworth, Surrey.
*Le-Apsley, James H. M., M.D., 1835 Makiki Street, Honolulu.
*Leconfield, Lady, Petworth House, Petworth, Sussex.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Lee, Blewett. c/o Illinois Central Railroad Co., 32 Nassau Street,
New York, U.S.A.
*Lee, Dr. H. D. C, Technical College, Huddersfield.
*Lees, Norman A.I.C., Norton Hall, Norton-on-Tees, Co. Durham.
*Legg, W. A., 14 Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
* Leigh -Pemberton, Mrs. Percy, 28 Chelsea Park Gardens, London,
S.W.
Lenon, J. W., Wellington Club, Grosvenor Place, London, S.W. 1.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, Portman Square, London,
W. 1.
*Leonard, Miss Margaret, Oakley House, Bromley Common, Kent.
Leonard, Thomas, 223 W. School Lane, Germantown, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Le Patourel, Miss M. L., 26 Walpole Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Leslie, Rev. G. Lindsay, The Manse, Eddleston, Peeblesshire.
Leslie, James, 1029 Corydon Avenue, Winnipeg, Canada.
*Lethbridge, Alan B., Stockwood House, Nr. Keynsham, Somerset.
*Leverson, Mrs. Louis J., 82 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W. 8.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., St. John's Parsonage, Keswick.
Lewis, David J., LTnited States Tariif Commission, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian. Public Library of Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Re-erve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 701
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, New York,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Binghampton Public Library, Binghampton, New York,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Boston Athenaeum, 10| Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, etc.. Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Public Library of the District of Columbia, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congre.-js, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland
Avenue, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian. The John Crerar Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dublin Local Section, 16 St. Frederic Street, Dublin.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore^
Md.. U.S.A.
*Librarian, General Theological Seminary, Chelsea Square, New
York, U.S.A.
Librarian, The Grosvenor Library, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.G. 2.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Ca.mbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Imperial Library, Metcalfe Hall, Calcutta, India.
*Librarian, Iowa State Library, Des Moines, Iowa, U.S.A.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Hornby Road,
Bombay.
Librarian, Free Public Library of Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Calif., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, LT.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Natal Society and Central Library, Pietermaritzburg,
Natal, S. Africa.
Librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
702 Members and Associates. [part
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, c/o Messrs. Truslove
& Hanson, 153 Oxford Street, London, W. L
Librarian, New York Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
^Librarian, Omaha Public Library and Museum, 19 and Harvey
Streets, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Peimsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Seattle Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Librarian, Norsk Selskap for psykisk Forskning, Pilestradet 63,
Christiania, Norway.
Librarian, Selskabet for psykisk Forskning, Graabrodretorv 7,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 23 Bedford Square, London,
W.C. 1.
*Librarian, Legislative Library, Toronto, Canada.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
Librarian, General Library of the LTniversity of Chicago, Chicago.
111., U.S.A.
Librarian, University Library, Glasgow.
*Librarian, University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland.
Librarian, University of Minnesota Library, Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Librarian, Victoria Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Williams' Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
*Llewellin, Mrs. W., Upton House, Nr. Poole. Dorset.
*Lloyd, Miss Edyth M., 10 Francis Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Lloyd, Judge Frank T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Hillside, Berkswell, Nr. Coventry.
*Loder, J. de V., 31 Lennox Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Loder, Mrs. J. de V., 31 Lennox Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
LXXXVIII.] WIembers and Associates. 703
Lodge, Miss E. C, Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, Nr. Salisbury.
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Lubbock, Mrs. Geoffrey, Glenconner, North Berwick.
Lucy, Miss Mabel, 1 Laurence Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3-
*Lumsden, Mrs. W. F., 43 Curzon Street, London, W. 1.
Lunn, Arnold, Palace Hotel, Montana, Sur Sierre, Switzerland.
Lyall, Mrs., 16 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square, London,
W. L
*Lyall, Major Edward, D.S.O., 19 Victoria Road, Darlington.
Lyell, Major A. G., 68 Upper Richmond Road, London, S.W. 15.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
*Macau]ay, Miss Gertrude F., Cairnbrae, 109 The Boulevard, West-
mount, Montreal, Canada.
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B.. 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W. 1.
*Macfarlane, Mrs. Scott B., c/o Lieut. -Comdr. S. B. Macfarlane,
U.S.S. Camden, c/o Postmaster. New York, LT.S.A.
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perth.
*Mackenzie, Lieut. -Colonel H. G. G., D.S.O., M.D., 29 Pitzjames
Avenue, West Kensington, London, W. 14.
Mackenzie, Lady Muir, 25 Pelham Place, Thurloe Square, London,
s;w. 7.
*Mackie, Dr. John. Ockbrook, Nr. Derby.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Liverness Terrace, London, W. 2.
*MacLellan, Mrs., 5 Langham Street, London, W. 1.
*Mactavish, Mrs. A. M. E., Moray Park, Island Bank Road, Inverness.
Madders, Mrs. H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
*Magrane, Mrs. Victor, Woodsford Rectory, Nr. Dorchester, Dorset.
Mahler, Mrs. John, Bronygartli, Oswestry, Salop.
Mainwaring, Mrs., 11 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
*Malmesbury, Susan, Countess of, 34 Wilton Place, London, S.W. L
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, Coombe Dale, Coombe Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
*Manning, Miss H. T.. 102 Central Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey,
U.S.A.
704 Members and Associates. Tpart
L.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Mount Vernon, Melton Mowbray, Tasmania.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., 10 Sion Hill, Bath.
Marriott, Mrs., 30 Roland Gardens, S. Kensington, London, S.W. 7.
*Marsden-Smedley, Mrs., Lea Green, Matlock, Derbyshire.
Marsden, E., 12 Ellerdale Road, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Marsh, Edward H., 5 Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn, London,
W.C. 1.
Marston, Charles, J. P., Afoot, Comi^ton, Nr. Wolverhampton.
Marten, Miss A. R., Osbornes, Liphook, Hants.
*Marten, Rev. G. H., St. Mark's Vicarage, Surbiton, Surrey.
*Martin, E. Le Breton, Red Lion House, Red Lion Court, London,
E.C. 4.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, Nr.
Tewkesbury.
*Martin, T. B., Woodlands, Siiaresbrook, London, E. 18
*Martindale, Miss B., 4 Piazza Paganica, Rome, Italy.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, 22 Racecourse Road, Lahore, India.
*Mason, Miss, 211 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Mason, Miss M. H., Morton, Eureka Road, Rondebosch, Cape Town,
S. Africa.
*Mason, Miss Ida M., 1 Walnut Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
*Mathews, Dr. F., Welsh Row House, Nantwich.
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 37 rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., PoUok House, PoUokshaws, N.B.
Mayor, R. G., 11 Campden Hill Square, Kensington, London, W. 8.
M'Alpine, Sir Robert, Knott. Park, Oxshott, Surrey.
*McCarthy, Justin Huntly, 19 Elm Park Mansions, Park Walk,
Chelsea, London, S.W. 10.
*M'Carthy, Mrs., 22 De Pary's Avenue, Bedford.
*M'Connel, D. R., M.A., 115 Santa Cruz Avenue, Menlo Park, Cali-
fornia, LT.S.A.
M'Connel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
M'Connel, Mrs., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
*M'Dermott, Captain F., The Old Mill, Tregoose, St. Columb,
Cornwall.
M'Dougall, William, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B., Emerson Hall, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
*M'Farland, Van E., M.D., Eagle Pass, Texas, U.S.A.
Lxxxviii.] Members and Associates. 705
M'Gusty, G. A., Granville, Broadstone, Dorset.
M'Keever, Buell, The Chicago Club, Michigan Ave. and Van Buren
Street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A. •
M'Lauchlan. G. M., 49 Oberon Street, Randwick, Sydnej^
Austraha.
*M'Xeil, Dr. Mary L., Scottish Mission Hospital, Bhandara, Central
Provinces, India.
Mead, G. R. S., 19 Evelyn Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Meek, Maximilian de, 2 rue des Lilas, Monte Carlo (Monaco).
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenlieim, Wurtemberg.
Megson, Albert, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett, Yorks.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 3 Batlivala Villa, Sleater
Road, Bombay, India.
Meissner, Mrs. de, 1524 31st Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Menon, Dr. M. P. K., 50 West End, Queensbury, Nr. Bradford,
Yorks.
*Merrington, A. J., Lieut. R.N., R.N. College, Greenwich, London,
S.E. 10.
*Merton, Gerald, Coton End, Grange Road, Cambridge.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
*Mikuska, Professor Viktor, Masarykova 303, Pardubice, Czechoslav
Republic.
*Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*]Mil]ard, J\Irs. Almira B., c/o The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*MiIls, J. P., I.C.S., c/o King, Hamilton & Co., 4 and 5 Koila Ghat
Street, Calcutta, India.
*Mitchell, T. V\\, M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, Nr. Tonbridge.
*Moncrieff, Captain M. M., The Cliffs, Nelson, New Zealand.
*Montague, Mrs., Penton, Crediton, Devon.
*Montgomerie, C. W., Woodleigh, Aldershot Road, Fleet, Hants.
Monypenny, Mrs. A. E. G., 5 Talbot Square, London, W. 2.
*Moore, His Honour Judge, 22 North Baile^v, Durham.
Morier, Mrs., 65 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W. 8.
*Morley, Mrs. Evelyn, 7 Green Street, Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Morris, Mrs., Corner House, Laleham-on-Thames, Middlesex.
*Morse, Major John, 1 Norfolk Terrace, Jersey, C.I.
Morton, Miss Mary, 12 TanlverviUe Terrace, Newcastle-on-Tpie.
Moses, E. J., c/o Messrs. E. D. Sassoon & Co., 4 IVIission Row,
Calcutta.
Members and Associates. [fart
Moss-Blundell, F. B., 29 Lancaster Park, Richmond, Surrey.
*Muir, Mrs. W. E., Rowallan, Haslemere, Surrey.
MuMiead, Mi-s. James F., 12 Campden Hill Square, London, W. 8.
*Mullens, Mrs., 31 Lowndes Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Mullins, Colonel W. B., Ambersham House, Midhurst, Sussex.
Murphy, Gardner, Ph.D., Dept. of Psychology, Columbia
University, N.Y., U.S.A.
Murphy, Miss Imogen H., 23 Somerset Terrace, Duke's Road,
London, W.C. 1.
Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boar's Hill,
Oxford.
Murton, Miss Josephine, Critchfield, Bosham, Sussex.
*Musgrave, Geoffrey, Selukwe, S. Rhodesia, S. Africa.
*Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., 12 Cleveland Row, St James's, London,
S.W. 1.
* Myers, L. H., Twyford Lodge, East Grinstead.
*Myers, Miss M. A., 15 Oxhey Road, Watford.
*Nash, Miss Diana, Tryon, N. Carolina, U.S.A.
*Nation, Captain Cecil, R.E., Ettrick Cottage, S. Farnborough,
Hants.
*Naylor, M. C, 35 Priory Road, Bedford Park, London, W. 4.
Neustadter, Louis W., Hotel Hollywood, Hollywood, Cal., U.S.A.
*Newbold, Eric, 11 Oak Hill Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
*Newcastle, The Duke of. Clumber, Worksoj), Notts.
Newton, Miss F. E., 156 Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
Newton, Heber, Oamaru, New Zealand.
Newton, Miss I., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Nicholson, Lady, 6 Kensington Court, London, S.W. 7.
*Nicoll, Mrs. DeLancey.
*Nicolls, Brig.-General E. G., C.B., Fir View, 13 Culverden Park
Road, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
*Nisbet, E. T., Birnieknowes, CuUercoats, Northumberland.
Noel, Miss Frances, Becket House, Thaxted, Nr. Dunmow, Essex.
Noel-Cox, H. L., M.D., F.R.A.S., 2 Clifton Gardens, Warwick
Avenue, London, W. 9.
*Norlind, Ernst, 12/13 Upper Bedford Place, London, W.C. 1.
Nott, William F., 24 Chancery Lane, London, W.C. 1.
Nutter, Miss H. G., 6 Acacia Road, Norbury, London, S.W. 16.
*0'DeU, A. E., 10 Knight's Park, Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
*0gden, James R., 38 James Street, Harrogate, Yorks.
Lxxxviii.] M.einber-'s and Associates. 707
Ogilvie, IMis. Robert, c/o R. G. Ross, Esq., 11 St. Colme Street,
Edinburgh.
Ogle, Lieut.-Colonel N., c/o Grindlay & Co., P.O. Box 93, Bombay.
*01dfield, Miss F., 24 Grimthorpe Street, Ash Road, Headingiey,
Leeds.
*01dham, Mrs., 11 Albany Villas, Hove.
Oldham, G. F., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Dunelm, Haden Road, Old
Hill, Staffs.
*0'Neill, E. E., 26 CromweU Road, Belfast.
Osborne, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Heath Street, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Osmaston, ]\Irs., Beacon Crag, Porthleven, CornAvall.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Owen-Williams, Mrs., Wellington Hotel, Wellington College Station,
Berks.
Oxenliam, Mrs., 3 Baring Crescent, Exeter.
Pack-Beresford, Denis R., J. P., Fenagh House, Bagenalsto-wn, Co.
Carlow.
Pagan, Mrs. G. L., 5 Belgrave Place, Edinburgh.
*Pagenstecher, G., M.D., Av. Veracruz 102, Mexico City, Mexico,
D.F.
Paget, Sir Richard, 74 Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Paley, G. A., Melton Wold, Victoria West, CP., S. Africa.
*Palmer, C. G., CLE., Duncan, Vancouver Island, British Columbia.
*Palmer, Mark, B.A., 33 Fitzjames Avenue, West Kensmgton,
London, W. 14.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
*Parr, F. C, San Toy, Shoreham Beach, Nr. Brighton.
Parsons, Ambrose, Said House, Chiswick Mall, London, W. 4.
Parsons, Karl, Speedwell. Northwood, Middlesex.
*Parsons, IMiss Llewellyn, 525 Park Avenue, New York, LT.S.A.
Parsons, N. M., 64 Chelsea Park Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Patel, F. J., L.R.C.P., 4 New Queen's Road, Bombay.
Paterson, Miss Mary N., Royal Marme Hotel, Ventnor, Isle of
Wight.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Peake, C. W., Masonsbridge House, Earlswood, Surrey.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Peck, Miss Charlotte L., Maidencombe House, St. Mary Church,
S. Devon.
708 Members and Associates.
_
[part
Peckham, Orville, 1320 N. New Jersey Street, Indianopolis, Ind.,
U.S.A.
*Pennington, Mrs. Henry, 279 Trinity Road, Wandsworth Common,
London, S.W. 12.
Perceval, Hon. Mrs. Dudley, 153 Church Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
*Perdicaris, Ion, The Manor House, Chislehurst, Kent.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/o Dr. Perkins, 57 Harley Street, London,
W. 1.
Perrott, F. D. M., 2 Francis Street, Strangeways, Manchester.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., 3 Albert Court, Kensington Gore,
London, S.W. 7.
Perry, Horace H., Court Royal, 111 King's Cliff, Brighton.
Perry, T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Pfau, A. R., Junr., Mankato, Minnesota, U.S.A.
*Phillimore, Hon. Mrs. Kendals Hall, Radlett, Herts.
*Phillips, F., B.Litt., Hall Street, Waun Wen, Swansea.
*Pickard, Mrs. Fortescue, 41 Hertford Street, Park Lane, London,
W. 1.
*Piddington, J. G., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
*Piercy, Major B. H., 94 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Pigott, Percy, 416 Hessle Road, Hull.
Pigou, Professor Ai-thur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treen, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, Wandsworth Common,
London, S.W. 18.
Pithapuram, The Rajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist., Madras
Presidency, India.
Place, Rev. C. A., Lancaster, Mass., U.S.A.
Plowden, Mrs., 6 Westcliffe, St. John's Road, Eastbourne.
Pollard, J. EUery, L.R.C.P. '
'
*Pollock, A. N., M.B., 1 Princes Street, Durham.
*Pollock, Mrs. Hugh, 13 Cresswell Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs. C. B.
*Pontifex, Dudley D., 73 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London,
S.E. 21.
*Poole, H. J., 9 Millerfield Place, Edinburgh.
Pooley, H. F., Scotter, Well Walk, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
*Poore, Mrs. J. B.. 17 Rosemount Road, Bournemouth West.
Lxxxvm.] Members and Associates. 709
*Porta], Mrs. Spencer, Bere Hill, Whitchurch, Hants.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
*Potter, John Wilson, 219 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Powell, C. Berkeley, J.P., 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
*PoAve]l, Llrs., Ashdown Place, Forest Row, Sussex.
Powles, Lewis Charles, Rother Cliff, Rye, Sussex.
*Prebhle, Mrs., Fairhaven, Upper Strickland Avenue, Hohart,
Tasmania.
*Preedy, Kenelm, 77 Warwick Road, London, S.W. 5.
*Preston, E. M., The Warren, Hayes, Kent.
*Price, H., Royal Societies' Club^ 63 St. James's Street, London,
S.W. I.
*Proctor, Major G. Norman, c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Ciiaring Cross,
London, S.W. 1
*Pugh, H. W., 38 Bedford Square, London, W.C. 1.
*Pullen-Burry, Miss B., F.R.G.S., Forum Club, 6 Grosvenor Place,
London, S.W. 1.
*Pumphrey, Mrs., Hindley Hal), Stockfield-on-Tyne.
*Putman, Miss Irene, 328 Walnut Avenue, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Pye, W. A , Priest Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
. *Racine, F. J., Rosebank, 161 Devonshire Road, Forest Hill, London,
S.E. 23.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Radclyffe-Hall, Miss M., 10 Sterlmg Street, Montpelier Square,
London, S.W. 7.
Rae, J. Burnett, M.B., 61 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Raikes, Mrs., The Mill House, Burford, Oxon.
*Raines, Lady, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
*Rampling-Rose, Major W., Llyndir Hall, Rossett, Nr. Wrexham.
Ramsden, Miss, 16 Incognito Gade, Christiania.
*Randell, Rev. J. Mickley, 3 Park Mansions, Vauxhall Park, London,
S.W. 8.
*Ransom, Francis, Newlands, Hitchin, Herts.
*Rashdall, The Very Rev. Hastings, The Deanery, Carlisle.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Tbrowleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
*Rawsthorn, Mrs., Yew Trees, Ashton-on-Ribble, Preston.
*Rayleigh, The Dowager Lady, 65 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3
*Rea, Miss E. A., Sewickley, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
710 Members and Associates. [part
Reade, Herbert V., C.B., Ipsden, Wallingford.
Ready, Miss E. A., 74 Regent Road, Leicester.
*Reeves, IVIrs. M. S., 31 Pembroke Square, London, W. 8.
Regina Madre, S. M. La, Palazzo Margherita, Rome.
Reid, INIrs., Crescent House, Effingham Road, Surbiton.
Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
*Rhondda, Sybil Viscountess, Llamvern, Newport, Mon.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford.
'•'Richmond, Kenneth, Vv^ittersham House, Wittersham, Kent.
Rickman, John, M.B., 11 Kent Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
*RiddIe, Mrs., Hillstead, Farming]ton, Conn., U.S.A.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew,
Surrey. .
Ridley, M. Roy, 11 Percival Road, Clifton, Bristol.
*Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
*Ritchie, A. J., Oriental Club, Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
*Rivett, Miss D. Mary, M'Litosh Street, Gordon, Sydney, New South
Wales.
Riviere, Mrs. Eveljm, 10 Nottingham Terrace, York Gate, London,
N.W. 1.
Rix, Rev. A. H., The Vicarage, Shelf near Halifax, Yorks.
*Roach, O. A., 401 Cedar Street, San Antonio, Texas, U.S.A.
Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W. 1.
Robinson, George R., 25 Water Street, Liverpool.
Robson, Hon. Kathleen, 26 Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
Rogers, Rev. F. C, St. John's Vicarage, Colchester, Essex.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade.. Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Friezewood, Rudgeway, Bristol.
Ross, Samuel, 68 Willis Street, New Bedford, Mass., U.S.A.
*Rothschild, Mrs. S., 20 York Buildings, Adelphi, London.
W.C. 2.
*Russell, Mrs., c/o Barclay's Bank Ltd., The Broadway, Ealing,
London, W. 5.
*Russell, Mrs. E. S., Bryans' Groimd, Presteign, Radnorshire.
*Rust, Dr. Montague, Bojmdie, West Newport, Fife.
*Ryan, Mrs. E., 51 Hallam Street, London, W. 1.
Ryder, Miss M. L., Little House, Bristol Street, Brighton.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, Damory Cottage, Walton-on-the-Hill.
St. Hill, IVIi's., Thimble, Littlewick Green, Berks.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 711
*St. John, Brig. -General G. F. W., C.B., Picton House, Llando\vror,
St. Clears, Carmarthenshire.
*Salter, F. R., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
*Salter, W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Salter, Mrs. W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Saltmarsh, H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
Samaldas, Hon. Lalubhai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Sassoon, Mrs. AKred, Weirleigh, Matfield Green, Kent.
Savill, Mrs., M.D., 7 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Savory, Ernest J. C, 61 Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn, London,
w!c. 2.
*Savory, H. J., 7 Shamrock Street, Napier, New Zealand.
*Scatcherd, Miss F. R., 14 Park Square, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
Schaaf, Albert E., 2034 East 83rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schofield, Mrs., 30 Argyll Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Schoff, Wilfred H.. 110 Montgomery Avenue, Cynwyd. Pa., U.S.A.
Scott, Miss A. D., 60 Hornsey Lane, Highgate, London, N. 6.
*Scott, Arthur P., Faculty Exchange, University of Chicago, Chicago,
-
111., U.S.A.
Scott, Rev. D. D., C.F., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New
Zealand.
Scott, Captain J. E., Chelsfield, Sneyd Park, Bristol.
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London,
W. 2.
*Scott, Mrs. W. E., 44 Westminster Palace Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Searle, W. C, 38 Bedford Row, London, W.C. 1.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D., 120 E. 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
Sellers, Miss R. A., Wellesley Girls' High School, Naini Tal, India.
*Sempill, Captain the Master of, 12 Gardner Mansions, Church Row,
Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Seton-Karr, Captain H. W., 8 St. Paul's Mansions, London, W. 6.
*Sewell, Mrs. C. H., Towerhurst, Leigh Woods, Bristol.
*Seymour, Miss E. F., 21 St. George's Square, London, S.W. 1.
Shackleford, Hon. Thomas M., Room 313/314, Citrus Exchange
Building, Tampa, Florida, U.S.A.
Shafto, Miss W. A., Normanhurst, Minnis Bay, Birchington, Kent.
Shakespear, Mrs., 12 Brunswick Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 8.
712 Members and Associates, [part
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Shastri, B. G., Secretary, State Council, Udaipur (Mewar), India.
Shaw, Arnold E., Grove House, Aspley Guise, Beds.
*Shaw, Mrs. Bernard, 10 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Shaw, Lady, 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Sheldon, Miss M., The High School, Bargate, Grimsby.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong, China.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 30 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
*SibIy, F. Arthur, LL.D., Flook House, Taunton, Somerset.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Silver, Mrs. Kingston, 33 Marsham Street, Westminster, London,
SW. 1.
*Sime, J. Boyd, Dean Mills, Hawick, N.B.
*Simmonds, Miss C. E., 33 Clarence Gate Gardens, London, N.W. 1.
Simpson, Miss Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
*Sinclair, Miss May, 1 Blenlieim Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur. Punjab, India.
*Slight, L., Carson Cottage, Kemieth Street, Inverness.
Sloggett, Lieut.-General Sir Arthur, K.C.M.G., K.C.B., 6s Bicken-
hall Mansions, London, W. 1.
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crooldiam Road, Fulliam, London, S.W. 6.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashu'e.
Smith, G. Albert, Rosedene, 7 Melville Road, Hove.
*Smith, Harrison B., c/o The George Washington Life Insurance Co.,
Charleston, W. Va., U.S.A.
Smith, J. Lloyle, S]Dring Banli, Eccles, Lancashire.
Smith, Rev. Sidney M., Holy Trinity Vicarage, Halifax, Yorkshire.
Smith, Rev. William J., St. Marnock's Manse, Kilmarnock.
*Smith, W. S. Montgomery, 138 Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Smith, W. Whately, The Turtons, Hayes Common, Hayes, Kent.
*Smithson, Mi's., 42 TUehouse Street, Hitchin, Herts.
*Soal, S. G., Scratton Lodge, Brook Road, Prittlewell, Essex.
Soley, Mrs. ,^66 Holbein House, Sloane Square, London, S.W. 1.
Southern, H., 24 Carholme Road, Forest Hill, London, S.E. 23.
*Spanlde, W. M., 40 Lombard Street, London, E.G. 3.
*Sparrow, J., 34 Hamilton Square, Birkenhead.
Spens, William, Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
*Spranger, John A., 4 Via Micheli, Florence, Italy.
LXXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 713
Stacey, F. C, 5 Fulready Road, Leyton, London, E. 10.
Stanton, Rev. Horace C, Ph.D., D.D., 1818 Arch Street, Phila-
delphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Steane, G. A., 22 Little Park Street, Coventry.
*Steel, Mrs., Beaufort, Marie Hill, Cheltenham.
Stephens, Mrs., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Stephens, W. F., Malie, Seychelles, via Bombay.
*Stephenson, F. W., Winter Field, Melbury Abbas, Shaftesbury,
Dorset.
*Sterling, Miss F. M., Home Wood, Hartfield, Essex.
Stevenson, A. Creery, Streeve, Church Circle, Farnborough, Hants.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Stobart, Mrs. St. Claii% 7 Turner's Wood, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. 4.
Stoehr, Miss, Hotel Belvedere, Bordighera, Italy.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strachan, W. M., Strood Park, Horsham, Sussex.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 13 York Street, London,
W.C. 2.
Stratton, F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Streatfeild, W. H. R., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 42 Ovington Square,
London, S.W. 3.
Strutt, Captain Hon. A. C, R.N., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
*Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Stuart, Lady, 10 Cleveland Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
*Sturdy, Edward T., Norburton, Burton Bradstock, Bridport,
Dorset.
*Summerson, F. C, 222 South NorAvood Hill,. London, S.E. 25.
*Suringar, Dr. J. Valckenier, Wageningen, Holland.
Swaine, Mrs. R. C, Letchworth Lane, Letchworth, Herts.
Swainson, Miss F. J., 29 Trevor Square, Knightsbridge, London,
S.W. 7.
*Swainson, Miss M., 23 Warrmgton Crescent, London, W. 9.
*Swayne, Mrs. Noah Haynes, Junr., Drawer N., Ardmore, Penn-
sylvania, U.S.A.
Swinburne, Mrs., The Manor House, Soiithwick, Sizssex.
*Swinton, Mrs. George, 107 Gloucester Place, Portman Square,
London, W. 1.
*Symington, Howard W., The Paddocks, Market Harborough.
%
714 Members and Associates. [part
Tait, Mrs., St. Andrew's House Club, 31a Mortimer Street, London,
W. 1.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., LismuUen, Arthur Road, Wimbledon Park,
London, S.W. 19
*Talbot, Mrs. Hugh, Wessobrum, Meran, South Tirol, Italy.
*Talbot, Mrs. I. M. B., 26b Kildare Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Talbot, P. Amaury, c/o The Secretary, Lagos, Nigeria.
*Tartaruga, U., Gentzgasse 132, Wien, XVIII, Austria.
*Tatham, A. T., Mountain Rise, Pietermaritzburg, S. Africa.
Tatham, Hon. Justice F. S., D.S.O., Parkside, Alexandra Road,
Pietermaritzburg, S. Africa.
*Taylor, Miss E. Warmg, 23 Warrington Crescent, Maida Hill,
London, W. 9.
*Taylor, H. Dennis, Stanciiffe, The Mount, York.
*Taylor, Mrs. Lewis S., 11 Belle Vue Road, Exmouth, Devon.
*Te]ling, W. H. Maxwell, M.D., 29 Park Square, Leeds.
Temple, Reginald W.
Thatcher, Mrs. G. R., 20 Alexandra Road, Kingston Hill, Surrey.
*Thaw, A. Blair, c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
*Thesiger, Mrs. Ernest, 6 Montpelier Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
*Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Quinney's, Shottery, Stratford-on-Avon.
*Thomas, Miss S. E., 368 Alexandra Park Road, Wood Green,
London, N. 22.
'Thompson, Sir Matthew W., Bart., 39 Steeles Road, Haverstock
Hill, London, N.W. 3.
*Thompson, Owen, K.C., 4 New Court, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C. 2.
*Thomson, Edward J., 6 Windsor Terrace West, Kelvinside, Glasgow.
Thornley, Miss P. J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
Thorp, Richard, Colenso Avenue, Napier, New Zealand.
Thrupp, T. C, Claremont, Woodlands Road, Redhill, Surrey.
*Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Mary of, Loucen, Nymburk,
Czecho-Slovakia.
Thurston, Rev. Herbert, S.J., 114 Mount Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W. 1.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
*Todd, Miss C. E., Down Cottage, Magham Down, Hailsham, Sussex.
9
LXXXVIU.] Members and Associates. 715
Torkildsen, ViUielm, Bergen, Norway.
*Tossizza, Baron M. A., 8 Rue de I'Echelle, Paris.
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow,
Ireland.
*Trethewy, A. W., Artillery Mansions, Victoria Street, London,
S.W. 1.
Trevor, The Lady Juliet, 16 Upper Brook Street, London, W. 1.
*Trotter, Mrs., Chatley, Norton St. Philip, Bath.
*Troubridge, Lady, 10 Sterling Street, Montpelier Square, London,
S.W. 7.
*Tubby, Miss G. Ogden, 5 West 47th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Tudor, Owen S., Friday's Hill, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Tugwell, Mrs. Arthiu-, c/o HanJiinson & Co., Richmond Chambers,
The Square, Bom-nemouth.
*Turner, Miss J., B.A., 14 Endsleigh Street, London, W.C. 1.
Tuson, K. H., Lieut., R.E., Blackdown Camp, Surrey.
*TyTone, The O'Neill de, 59 rua das Flores, Lisbon, Portugal.
*T3TTell, G. N., Torbay House, Parkstone, Dorset.
*Tyrwhitt, Rev. H. M., 19 The Glebe, Blackheath, London, S.E. 3.
Ulman, Mrs. Jacob A., Brooldandville, Baltimore County, Md.,
U.S.A.
*Van Loon, Dr. F. H., c/o Hoofdbureau B.G.D., Weltevreden,
Java.
Van Rcnterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsteixlam.
*Vatcber, Mrs., 21 St. Leonard's Road, Ealing, London, W. 13.
*Venancourt, Comte de, 7 Rue Duperre, Paris.
*Verney-Cave, Hon. Mi's., Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
Verrall, Miss M. E., The Lydd, West Hoathly, Sussex.
*Vett, Carl, Strandvej 6 Str., Copenhagen, Denmark.
*Vigor, G. St. V. J., 4 Walpole Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Vincent, Miss G. H. M. M., Carisbrooke Road, Leicester.
Vyvyan, Mrs. T. C. Poldhu, Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
Wagner, W. Q., St. John Street, Melrose, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
*Wales, Hubert, Homewood Heath, Hindhead, Surrey.
*Waley, S. D.., 18 The Green, Kew, Surrey.
Walker, Mrs. Claude, 12 Southwood Court, Hampstead Garden
Sub^u'b, London, N.W. 4.
*Walker, Mrs. J. P., 26 St. Andrew's Mansions, Dorset Street,
London, W. 1.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
716 Members mid Associates. [part
Walker, Miss May C, National Provincial Bank, Llandudno,
N. Wales.
*Walker, Miss Nea, 13 York Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
* Walker, Lieut. -Colonel P. L. E., Great House, Chipping Sodbury,
Glos.
Walker-Munro, Mrs., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Walker, II. A. RoUeston, Stretton, Cromer Road, Bournemouth.
*Wallace, Abraham, M.D., Wendela, Harrow-on-the-HUl, Middlesex.
Wallace, C. A., 1 Adelaide AA-enue, Belfast, Ireland.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Wanderley, E. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, BrazU.
Wang, C. Y.; Rue de Paris Extension, Hankow, China.
*Warburton, A. P., c/o A. Scott & Co., Rangoon, Burma, India.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Moorings, Menai Bridge, N. Wales.
*Warner, Rev. D. V., 1370 Greene Avenue, Westmount, Montreal,
Canada.
*Warner, Mi's. W. W., 56 Onslow Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Warren, Mrs. Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Warrender, Miss Margaret. 50 Vl^Hton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
*Warrick, F. W., 6 Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn, London, W.C. 1.
Wastell, ]\Irs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 73 Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
Watson-Taylor, Mrs., Dibleys, Blewbury, Didcot.
Webster, Mrs. Julia C, Swanton, Vermont, LT.S.A.
Weinberg, Dr. A. A., Helperoostsingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
*Weldon, Arthur, 27 Arlmgton Road, Eastbourne, Sussex.
*Wellesley, Victor A. A. H., C.B., 20 St. Loo Mansions, St. Loo
Avenue, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Wemyss, Countess of, 62 Cadogan Square, London, S.W. 1.
Western, F. J., Cambridge Mission, Delhi, India.
Weston, Miss Lena E., 57 Whitwell Road, Plaistow, London, E. 13.
*Westray, Mrs., 25 Cavendish Road West, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
*Wetterstad, Dr. S., Bondernes hus, Christiania, Norway.
*Wheeler, Post, Litt.D., Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
*Wliitehead, Miss Mercia D., St. Mary's, Trumpington, Cambridge.
*Whitfield, A. Stanton, F.R.Hist.S., Bentley Moor, Walsall, Staffs.
*Whitmee, A. C, Homelands, Fortis Green, London, N. 2.
*Wigan, Mrs. C. Rookhurst, 22 Chesham Place, London, S.W. 1.
Lxxxvin.] Members and Associates. 717
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East dialling, Maidstone, Kent.
WiJd, IVIiss Ida, Old. Larkshayes, Dalwood, Kilmington, S. Devon.
Wilkins, ]\Irs., c/o E. C. Jameson, 182 Great Brunswick Street,
Dublin.
Wilkins, C. E., c/o Messrs. H. S. Iving & Co., 9 Pall Mali, London,
S.W. 1.
*Wilkins, Rev. H. J., D.D., Redland Gi-een. Bristol, Glos.
Wilkinson, IMiss Marian S., Ford Cottage, Water End, York.
*Wilkinson, Miss MHisent A., c/o The Australian Bank of Commerce,
37 Tlireadneedle Street, London, E.C.
Willett, S^ss Cicely, at 42 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W.
Williams, Mrs. Glymie, 7 Berkeley House, Hay HUl, London, W. 1.
Williams, Mrs. S. R., 12 Lome Road, Oxton, Cheshire.
Williamson, JVIrs., The Copse, Brook, Godalmmg, Surrey.
*Wllliami!on, John, M.D., Heathfield, 18 College Road. Epsom,
*WiUiamson, The Very Rev. Dr. Wallace, 44 Palmerston Place,
Edinburgh
.
WiUiams-^Valker, Dr. A., 25 Belchers Lane, Birmingham.
Willis, Grant B., 168 W. Third Street, Mansfield, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Willock, ]\'Irs. C. J., Elderton Lodge, Thorpe Market, Norwich.
* Wills, Miss Mary Tappan, c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W. 1.
* Wilson, Colonel C. E., Longcross House, Chertsey, Surrey.
*WLlson, Mrs. A., O.B.E., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, Gresham House, Sharia Sulieman Pasha,
Caho, Egypt.
Wilson, Mrs. H- J-,- Braemar Royal, West Southbourne, Hants.
*Wilson, J. S., 24 Chapel Street, London, S.W. 1.
Wilson, Percy, 48 Clarendon Road, Putney, London, S.W. 15.
*Winby, Lieut. -Col. L. P., 83 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Wingham, T. H., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada.
Wise, IVIiss A. Stewart, 16 West Kensington Gardens, London,
W. 14.
Witherby, Arthur George, NewtoAvn, Newbury, Berks.
*Wodehouse, The Lady Isabel, Kimberley House, Wymondham.
*Wolf, Franciso Eugene de, P.O. Box 269, Bristol, Rhode Island,
U.S.A.
*Wood, Richard, Coolculitha, Innishannon, Co. Cork.
*Wood, T. Eugene, Redcliffe, 14 Chine Crescent Road, Bournemouth.
718 Members and Associates. [part Lxxxviii.
*Woodliouse, Mrs. R., 48 Antrim Mansions, Haverstock Hill, London,
N.W. 3.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewke.^bury, Gloucestershire.
Woods, Miss Alice, St. Ives, Radlett, Herts.
Woods, Miss C. E., 13 Cowley Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
Woollett, Lieut.-Colonel W. Charles, F.S.A., 4 The Ridges, Farn-
boro', Hants.
*Wool]ey, F. Duke, M.D., 2 Palace Court, London, W. 2.
WooUey, V. J., M.D., 18 Freta Road, Bexley Heath, Kent.
*Worsfold, Mrs. Basil, 3 Plowden Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, Wandsworth, London,
S.W. 18.
*Wriford, Mrs.. 21 BuUingham Mansions, Kensington, London, W.
*Wright, Captain A. F., M.C., Trent Valley House, Lichfield.
*Wright, G. E., 5 Queen Square, Southampton Row, London, W.C. 1.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 86 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
Wynn, John, Widney, Solihull, Warwickshire.
Yaroschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
*Yardley, R. B., The Birches, London Road, Worcester Park,
Surrey.
Yeats, W. B.. 82 Merrion Square, DubKn.
* Yeoman, IVIrs., Hampden House, Highgate Hill, London, N. 6.
* Yeoman, Miss I. V., Hampden House, Highgate Hill, London, N. 6.
*Yerburgh, Rev. W. H. B., The Rectory, Bredon, Tewkesbury.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, 3 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Zeehandelaar, Dr. I., 39 Sarphatistraat, Amsterdam, Holland.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XXXIII
(PARTS LXXXV-LXXXVIII)
A.
A., Mr., Case communicated by - - 321
Adam, Mrs., Case contributed by 66-70
Adler, A., Work of - - - - 431
Aeschylus, Script references to ----- - 531-5.32, 564
Aksakoff, Alexander N., Case communicated by 210
Alexander, Professor A., Supernormal Phenomena observed during
Hypnotic Treatment, Reference to "8
„ Cases collected by 160, 177, 219, 286
American Branch of the Society, Cases from the 63-70, 76-77, 78,
82, 97, 98, 142, 148, 216, 231, 2.35, 260, 264, 282, 310, 321, .322, 351.
355-359, 379, 417
" Angus," Miss, Crystal vision experiences of 32-34
Animal Agents, Possible 219, 231, 342
Animal Magnetism - - - - 7-9
Animals, Apparitions of - 381, 387
„ apparently affected by psychical phenomena - - - 340
„ Dreams coinciding with danger to or death of - - 141, 219
„ Impression coinciding -with danger to - - - - 116, 139
Apparitions, Instances of. See Phantasms of the Living.
Appreciation of Time by Somnambules, Experiments on - - - 14
Aristophanes, Script reference to 557
Arkwright, Miss E., Case communicated by 295
Ai'mstrong, H., Case contributed by 356
720 Index to Vol. XXXIII. [parts
Ainold, Matthew, Script references to 446, 462, 464
Asliley, Mrs., Case contributed by 276
Atkins, A. H. and Miss Edith, Case communicated by - . . 302
Aub, Luch'S'ig 438
AureHus, Marcus, Script references to ..... 541-542
Automatic Messages (Table-Tilting, Writing, etc) 73, 76, 439, 561-562, 564
See also Crystal Visions.
Automatic Scripts. See Forecasts of the War.
Automatic Writing, On the physiological and psychological significance
of 11-12, 15
B.
B., Lady, Case contributed by ------- - 363
B., H., Case contributed by ........ 257
B., Miss, Case confirmed by ........ 52
B., Miss M. L., Case contributed by ------ - 271
B., R. T., Case contributed by 40
Baddeley, Colonel C. E., On the Element of Chance in Book-Tests - - 607
BaggaUy, W. W., Cases collected by 54-57, 139, 398
Baggally, Mi-s. W. W., Case confirmed by 402
Balfour, Rt. Hon. G. W., with reference to Mi-s. King's scripts
441-442, 510, 5S4
Barber, Mrs., Case contributed by ------- 96
Barber, Reginald and Mrs., Case contributed by - - - - - 372
Barcellos, Dr. A., Supernormal Phenomena observed during Hypnotic
Treatment, Reference to - - 78
Barkworth, T., Case communicated by - 363
" Barnard," Mr. and Mrs. D., Cases contributed by - - - 301, 415
Barrett, Sir William, Cases communicated by - - - - - 41, 43
Baxter, Mi's., Case contributed by - - - - - - - 190
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., Case contributed by 73-76, 423
Beauchamp, Mrs., Case contributed by ----- - 342
Beavis, Dr. C, Evidence contributed by ----- - 278
Beilby, Sir George, Case communicated by - - - - - 243
Benecke, Mrs., Case contributed by - - - - - - - 183
Bermck, J., Case confirmed by - ...... 396, 397
Blaikie, Mrs., Case contributed by 411
Blake, W., Script references to 510, 546
Blum, Dona Maria do Carmo, Case contributed by - - - - 286
Book-Tests, On the Element of Chance in 606
Editorial Note 606
Leonard book-tests. Comparison between and the experiments on
chance 607-608, 610, 612-614
Report on the experiments 608
Instructions to experimenters . - . . . 608-609
Lxxxv.-Lxxxviii.] Index to Vol. XXXIII. 721
^ooA: Tests, On the Element of Chance in—
Tests 609
Specimen results 615-620
Successes and failures. Percentages of - - - - 609-612
Book-Tests, Various Reports on, reference to - - - 606 (footnote)
Booth, llrs.. Case contributed by 76
Bowj'er-Bower, Mrs., Evidence contributed by - - - 169, 172-176
Braid, References to the work of ....... 6, 8
Bramwell, Dr. J. Mhie, Hypnotic Experiments of - - 14. 621-622, 623
Bridge, G. E. W., Case communicated by 249
Bridge, JMrs. G. E. W., Evidence contributed by - - - 250-251, 252-254
Brierley, J. A., Case contributed by ------ - 308
Brompton," Father, Case contributed by 287
Broussilofi, Mrs., Case contributed by 183, 210
Browett. Mrs. Walter, Case contributed by - - - - - - 232
Bro^Tn, H. T., E^^dence contributed by 325
Browning, R., Script references to - 492, 500
„ Mi-s., Script reference to ------ - 593
Burgess. Claude. Case contributed by - 398. 420
Buxton, Sir T. Fowell, Case recorded by, reference to - - - - 189
C.
C, Jlrs., Case contributed by ------- - 61-62
^-
C, Mrs.," Cases contributed by 312, 313
Cabral, U. J. da Costa, Case contributed by 393
Campbell, Script references to - - - 473-474 (footnote), 487, 562
Campbell, Miss C. M., Experiments in telepathy by, reference to - - 31
Campbell, Captain R. E. W., Case contributed by - - - - 183
Carbery, Lady, Case contributed by 139
Carey, Major-General W. D., Case communicated by - - - - 194
Carnarvon, Lord, Case confirmed by - - - - - - - 204
Cai-ter, Miss Ellen. See Nichols, Mrs. E.
Castle, ill's.. Case contributed by 94
Caulfield, F. W., Case contributed by ------- 95
Challacombe, J. P., Case contributed by ----- - 333
Chance in Book-Tests, On the element of 606
Chase, G. V., Case communicated by ------- 64
Chase, J. C, Case confirmed by -------- 70
Chater, Mrs., E^^dence contributed by 172
Chattock, Professor A. P., Reference to experiments in Telepathy by - 31
Chaucer, Script reference to 488
Chenoweth, iNIi's., Case recorded by - - 79-80
Child Percipients - 96, 98, 101, 133. 166, 167, 171, 236, 285. 333, 359, 416
Clairvoyance, experiments in 437, 438
On the evidence for - - - - - 10. 11. 14, 16
722 Index to Vol. XXXIII. [paets
Clapham, J. H., Case communicated by ----- - Si^Q
Clarkson, IVIrs., Case contributed by 280
Clissold, E. M., Case contributed by 292
Clough, A. H., Script references to - - - - 461, 463, 468-469
Coad, Miss Catherine, Experimental Telepathy with . - - - 48-50
Coghill. Colonel Kendal, Case collected by - 141
" Compact ' Cases 203, 205
Comyn, Mrs. J. S., Case contributed by, reference to - - - - 231
Concerning the Possibility of Deception in Sittings with Eva C. By Dr.
Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing ------- 665
Constable, F. C, Cases communicated by - - - - - 276, 297
Cowpland, Miss M., Case contributed by ----- - 267
Cox, Miss Charlotte, Case contributed by ----- - 195
Cox, Miss Julia, Evidence contributed by ----- - 299
Cross-Correspondence, Phenomena of
—
" Communicators' " apjDarent intention to hide their meaning from
the Automatists - - - 455-457
Scripts, Connecting links between ... - - 444.459
Cribbing 449-451
Cryptic or Symbolic ----- 450, 451-457
Repetition of a topic, words, names, phrases or
quotation 444, 445-449, 457-459
„ Memoi y in 449
„ Methods employed in 443-459
,, Persistency with which obscure allusions are followed up - 449
„ shoAvn to other Automatists 449-450
,, State of Automatists when producing .... 456
Crystal Visions, Telepathic
—
Experimental 33, 35, 40, 41, 43, 48
Collective, 48. 420
Spontaneous .......... 45
D.
D., Mrs., Cases contributed by 58-63
D., Mr. and Mrs., Case contributed by ..... 357, 420
D., Mi-s. M. C, Case contributed by - 97-98
Dante, Script references to - - - - - - - - 567-576
Davidson, Professor Thomas, Cases contributed by - - - 310, 336
Delboeuf, Professor, Experiments in Post-Hypnotic Appreciation of
Time, reference to ......... 14
Despard, Miss E.. C, Reference to experiments in Telepathy by - - 31
Dicldnson, G. Lowes, Cases communicated by - - - 92, 107, 241
Dickinson, Harry, Evidence contributed by ..... 108
Dickinson, J., Case contributed by, Reference to . - 29 (footnote)
Dickinson, Miss Janet, Case contributed by 107
Lxxxv.-Lxxxviii.] Index to Vol. XXXIII. 723
Die Besessenheit, Review of -------- 434
Ding\vall, E. J., The Hypothesis of Fraud in the case of " Eva C."
Reply by Dr. Schi-enck-Notzing to - 665
Dissociation and automatic writing - - - - - - 11, 15
„ clairvoyance 14
„ hypnotic phenomena ----- 13-15, 430
hysteria - - 13, 14-15, 430
„ supernormal phenomena - - - - 11-12,13-16,17
„ thought-transference ------ 14
Dodd, Miss C. A., E\'idence contributed by - - - - 276-277
Dove, J., Case contributed by - - - 208
Dreams, Phenomena of
—
,, Embroidery in, compared with the same tendency in auto-
matic script and trance speech ----- 29
Freud on _ - . - 433
Jlitchell, Dr. T. W., on 431
„ Psychological identity of, with " Borderland " and Waking
Hallucinations 27-29
,, Reciprocal, value of as throMing light on the process of tele-
pathic communication ------- 419
Telepathic - 90, 92, 99, 103. 141, 142, 144. 147, 195, 196,
199, 213-231, 232, 235, 237, 241, 256, 257-
264, 268-275, 280, 282-286, 296-^29, 330,
344, 351, .352-353, 354-360, 404-411, 413-414,
415-419, 420
„ „ Evidential advantage of, over most sensory hallu-
cinations ------- 28-29
„ „ Evidential weakness of, as furnishing more scope
for chance-coincidence ----- 28
„ „ Rareness of, -n-ith no element of sensorj^ hallu-
cination 90 (footnote)
Dryden, Script references to 551
Du Cane, The Misses, Case contributed by 367
Dufferin, Marchioness of. Case recorded hy - - - - - - 218
Duke, Dr. T., Cases communicated by 81
E.
E., Miss, Expei-iments with, on the Appreciation of Time by Somnam-
bules 623-639,646,661,662-663
E., Mrs., Case contributed by 85
E., Ml', and Mrs. S. P., Case contributed by 379
Edmunds, Miss Lucy, Case contributed by 323
Einfuhrung in den Okkultismus unci Spiritismus, Review of - - 435
EUiot, Jane, Script reference to ------- - 472
Elliott, Miss E. M., Case confirmed by 309
724 Index to Vol. XXXIII. [parts
Ellwood, W. M., and M. J., Case contributed by 364
Euripides, Script references to 494
" Eva C," Concerning the Possibility of Deception in sittings with - 665
Everyday Life, Psychopathology of 433
F.
F., Miss A. C, Case contributed by ------ - 147
F., Miss E. H., Case contributed by - - - - - - - 237
F., Mrs. E., Case contributed by 307
Fairy Ship, The, Script references to ------ - 448
Farquharson, Miss F., Case confirmed by ----- - 206
Fawkes, Miss Ethel, Evidence contributed by 108
Fisher, J. A., Evidence contributed by - - - - - - 126
'¥\nge\, S. G.,'RQvi&w oi The Psychology of Medicine . - - - 430
„ ,, Iiitroductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis - - 432
Forecasts in Scripts concerniyig the War—
Introduction 439
Comparison of pre-War King Scripts with the Scripts of other
Automatists --------- 504
" All is Well " - - 474, 477, 482, 486, 491, 494, 497, 506-507
Behemoth and Leviathan . . . - 461, 510-513, 553-554
Crossed Swords 475, 491, 513-514
Had Zijjari peace, who slew his master ? - - 496, 523-527
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth - 472,
473, 482, 491, 514-523
Mercy and Truth - - - - 461, 470, 490, 494, 497, 528-534
Music of the Spheres 473, 550-554
Pool of Bethesda 471, 530-538
Vengeance is Mine, and Associated Topics - 497, 533, 554-576
Violet Crown .... - 479, 488, 532, 539-549, 591
We Band of Brothers 465, 484, 508-509
Note on " Lusitania," " Fenchurch Street " and " Pathfinder " - 499
On the evidential quality of the three Incidents - - 601-603
Script references :
" Lusitania " 479, 490
" Fenchurch Street " - - - 488, 491
"Pathfinder" 489
Prediction of Utopia 603-605
Prevision, On the evidence for 599-605
Scripts of July and August 1914 - 577
War references in pre-War King Scripts ..... 461
Foster, Sir Michael, Case relating to ----- - 73, 440
Fotheringham, W. B., Case communicated by 179
Freud, Professor S., Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis - - 432
Freud, On the work of, and of " post-Freudian " schools - - 6, 431-432
Fryer, Rev. A. T., Cases collected by 104, 242
Fuller-Maitland, Mrs., Case contributed by 349
Lxxxv.-Lxxxviii.] Index to Vol. XXXIII. 725
G.
G., Mss, Case contributed by - - - - - - - 213
G. ,
Mss, Case contributed by ------- - 286
Gale, Professor Harlow, Case collected by - - - - - - 93-94
Garner-Smith, Gerard, E\ddence contributed by - - - - - 158
Grernet, Miss N., Experiments in crystal vision 35-39
Glardon, Rev. Aug., Reference to experiments in Telepathy by - - 32
Gleason, Dr. Adela A., Case contributed by - - . . - 417
Glynn, R., Case contributed by ------- - 141
Gough, A. B., Case collected by 110
Gray, Elegy in a Country Churchyard, Script reference to - - - 446
" Green," Misses B. J. and H. L., Cases contributed by - - - 381
Green, Mrs., Case contributed by ... - 395, 402, 403, 420
Grieve, Miss B. H., Cases contributed by - - - - 32, 48, 340. 342
Grignon, Rev. W. S., Case communicated by - - - - - 393
Gurney, Edmund, Hypnotic researches of ------ 14
,, ,, Phantasms of the Living. See Phantasms.
H.
H., Mr. and Mrs., Case contributed by - 97
H., Mr. and Mrs., Case contributed by 355
H., Mrs., Case contributed by - - 45
H., Mi's., Case contributed by 59-61
H., Sir R., Case contributed by 237, 332
Haggard, Sir Rider, Cases contributed by 138, 219
Hall, WiKred, Case communicated by 309
Hallucinations, Waking, Appearance of more than one figure - - 189
Auditory - 152, 160, 236, 237, 241, 242,
264, 276, 292, 293, 295, 342,
352, 390, 395, 398
Collective - - - 343, 393, 411
„ „ „ Induced .... 41-42, 44
Cases of ----- - 152-353
„ ,, ,, Brief description of - - - 426-427
„ ,, Mode of development ----- 89
„ ,, Psychological identity of, \^dth dreams and
" borderland " cases .... 27-29
„ ,, Rareness of veridical cases of - - - 151
„ ,, Repetition after an interval - - - - 248
„ Telepathic, Meagreness in the content of, as
compared vidth. dreams . - - - 28-29
„ „ Visions 29 (footnote)
Ham, J., Evidence contributed by ------ - 207
Hanson, Mrs., Case contributed by 296
3a
'^26 Index to Vol. XXXIII. [parts
Hasted, Rev. H., Phantasms of •
. .
.387
•Hauberrisser, Dr. Georg, Evidence contributed in Dr. Schrenck-
Notzing's investigation of " Eva C." 667
Head, Miss Alice L., Case communicated by 278
" Henderson," Mrs., Case contributed by
'
278
Hicks, Alfred, Case contributed by - -
335
Highett, Miss A.,' Cases contributed by - - . .
168,175-176
Hill, J. Arthur, Case collected by -120
Hillman, R. Mowat, Evidence contributed 158
Hippocrates, Teaching of - - - 4, 5 6 20
Hodgson, Mrs., Case contributed by
'
-' '
351
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., Cases collected by -
63-70, 76-77, 78, 82,
97, 98, 142, 148, 216, 231, 235,' 260, 264, 282,'
310, 321. .322, 351, 356, 357, 358, 379, 417
Hoi born. Rev. A., Cases commurucated by 378
Holbrook, Dr. M. L., Cases communicated by - - - .
358, 417
"Holland," Mrs., Scripts of - - - 439-441, 452, 468 (footnote)
Holt, Miss Mary D., Evidence contributed by I35
Hooper, Sydney E., An Experimental Study of the Appreciation of Time
by So7nnariibules
g9j
Hope, Mrs. R. H., Case contributed by 298
Hutchinson, Dr. Donald, Case contributed by 101
Hypnotic phenomena, compared with mediumistic trance phenomena -
13, 14
" j> and dissociation 430
Hypnotisation at a distance. Case of -
77-78
Hysteria and dissociation
43Q
Hysterical somnambulism, compared with mediumistic trance pheno-
'"•^"^
13,14
I.
Ingelow. The High Tide on the Coast of Lincolnshire, Script reference
*°
489
Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis, by Freud, Review of - -
432
J.
Janet, Pierre
g
Johnston, Dr. George, Case contributed by 344
" Jones," Miss Anne, Case contributed by. Reference to 100, 317, 330, 352
Jones, Mrs. S., Case contributed by
'
.
'
.
'
249
Jones, Rev. John, Case contributed by 375
Jones, Sir Lawrence, Cases contributed by 3O7 349
Jordan-Smith, B., Case communicated by
'
315
Joslyn, J. R., Case contributed by 4I8
Jumieges, Abbey of. Case of Auditory hallucination in - - . 393
Jung, C. G., Work of
43^
Lxxxv.-Lxxxviii.] Index to Vol. XXXIII. 727
K.
Keats, Script references to - - - - - - - - 484, 487
" King," Mrs., Automatic Scripts of
—
Character of the automatism, and circumstances in which it
started 441-443
Correspondence with the Scripts of other Automatists. See
Forecasts in Scripts Concerning the War.
Kingston, Dr. H. D. R., Case communicated by 367
KipUng, Script reference to 467
Kitchener, F. E., Case collected by - - - - - - - 126
Kitching, Miss E. H., Case contributed by 142
Klado, Miss M., Case confirmed by - - 37
Knight, Mrs. Henrietta, Case contributed by - - - - - 235
Krekel, Mrs., Case contributed by 264
L.
L., Miss M., Evidence contributed by - - - - - - - 41
L., Mrs., Experiments with, on the appreciation of Time by Som-
nambules - - - 623, 627-628, 639-655, 656-661, 662, 664
Lang, Andrew, Cases contributed by - - - 40,48,308,340,342,411
Larkin, J. J., Case contributed by - - - - - - - 152
Latham, Dr. H., Evidence contributed by - - - - - 192-193
Lauritzen, Severin, Case communicated by - - - - - - 293
" Lawson," C. W., Case contributed by ----- - 268
Lee, Rev. A. H. E., Case collected by - - - - - - - 45
Lee, Mrs. M. Holland, Case contributed by - - - - - - 78
Leir-Carleton, The Hon. Mi's., Case contributed by - - - - 131
Leitrim, Countess of, Case contributed by - - - - - - 135
Leonard, Mrs., Reference to the mediumship of - - - - 9, 291
Lewds, Rev. W. M., Case contributed by ----- - 305
Liebeault, Reference to -------- - 6
Lodge, Sir 0., Cases commimicated by - - - 91,119,152,232,260
Logue, Mrs., Case contributed by ------- 57
Longfellow, Script reference to 590
Lost Objects, Finding of through dreams, Cases of - - - - 70-73
Luke, Miss, Cases contributed by ------- 321
Lyttelton, The Hon. Mrs. Alfred. See " King," Mrs.
M.
M., E., Case contributed by 104
Mac Scripts, The 439-441, 446, 520
Macdonald, Rev. J. A., Case communicated by 166
Macklin, Mrs., Case contributed by - - - - - - - 199
728 Index to Vol. XXXIII. [parts
MacLellan, Miss Alice, Report of various psychical experiences, refer-
ences to - - 103-104, 128
McCaskill, Miss A., Case contributed by 371
McCuUoch, T. F., Case contributed by ------ 260
M'Dougall, Dr. Wm. 2, 18-19
M'Connel, D. R., E\idence contributed by - - - - - 152-155
M'Connel, Dr. H. W., Cases collected by 147, 148
Maddison, George, Case contributed by ----- - 390
Maeder, A. E., Work of 431
Mallou, Miss L. A., Case confirmed by ------ 84
Malpress, Mrs., Evidence contributed by ----- - 191
Mann, Mi's., Case contributed by - - - - '
- - - - 196
Marldiam, Dr. R. G., Case contributed by - - - - - - 320
Marsh, E. H., " Marmontel " Incident, reference to - - - - 440
Mattiesen, Dr. Emil, Case communicated by - - - - - 329
Medical pirofession and Psychical Research ------ 19-20
Medical Psychology and Psychical Research, by Dr. T. W. Mitchell - 673
Medicine, Occultism and Psychical Research, Relations between. See
Dr. Mitchell's Presidential Address.
Mediumistic trance and the supernormal acquisition of knowledge - 8-18
Discussion on the source of such knowledge and the
ways in which it is acquired - - - - 10-13
,, „ Medical psychology as thro\ving light on - - 13-18
Mesmer, References to 6, 7, 9
Michell, J. J., and Mrs., Evidence contributed by - - - . 166
Millner, Mi-, and Mrs. Le Roy, Case confirmed by - - 282-283, 285
Milton, Script references to 472, 494, 552
Mitchell, Dr. T. W., Hypnotic Experiments and researches of 627, 628,
630, 637, 638-639, 647, 655-656, 659, 662-663,
673-675
,, Medical Psychology and Psychical Research - - 673
„ Presidential Address 1
,, The Psychology of Medicine - - - - 430
Morse, J. F., Case contributed by ------ - 235
Motor Automatism, Cases of - - - - - - - 73, 76, 440
See also Automatic Writing.
Motor Impulses - - 109, 110, 115
Multiple Personality. See Personality.-
Munro, L. S. M., Case contributed by 339
Murray, Professor Gilbert, Script reference to Essay by - - - 548
Myers, F. W. H., Human Personality, Cases of phantasms of the Living
published in 24 (and footnote 24-25), 29 (footnote), 32, 321, 388
„ References to - - 137, 208, 214, 235, 236, 312 (footnote), 376, 411
Lxxxv.-Lxxxvni.] Index to Vol. XXXIII. 729
N.
Xelson, Major A., Case contributed bj^
Neuroses, Problems of the - - -
-
XewaU, Professor and ilrs.. Case confirmed by
Xewbolt, Scrii^t reference to - -
-
Newton, Miss I., Case collected by
Nichols, Mi-s. E., Case contributed by -
Nichols, W., Case contributed by
Niederhauser, MUe. S., Case confirmed by -
Norse Mythology, .Script reference to -
0.
O'Grady, .4 Bog of Stars, .Script reference to
On the Element of Chance in Book-Tests
Orchard, Laurence, Case contributed by
Orr, A. W., Case collected by - -
-
Orr, jNIiss Ada, Case contributed by
Osterreich, T. K., Die Besessenheit, by. Review of
Ouija board -------
Owen, John V., Case contributed by -
P.
Pagan, Miss I. M., Case contributed by 406
242
" Parker, Rev. T.," Case contributed by - 126
Paterson, Miss Mary M., Case contributed by 243
Patteson, Lewis W., Case confirmed by 70'
Pease, E. R., Case communicated hy - 242
Pederson, Rev. Soren, Case contributed by - - 338
Peebles, Mrs., Case contributed by - 263
Perry, W. E., Case contributed by - 260
Personal Control in mediumistic trance - 13, 14
PersonaUty, Multiple, Cases of - 435, 436,438-
„ Phenomena of, compared with those of medium-
istic trance - IS
,, „ Problems of 673
Pfirshing, ]\Irs., Case contributed by - 103
Phantasms of the Living. An Examination and Analysis of Cases of
Telepathy between Living Persons printed in the '"Journal" since
the publication of
" Phantasms of the Living," by Gurney, Myers
and Podmore. By Mi-s. Henry Sidg^ack
—
Definitions and explanations - - - - 23-30, 31, 39, 151
Period covered - - - - - - - 23 (footnote)
- 325
431, 433, 434
- 101
- 466
- 190
- 183
98
- 303
- 550
467-468
- 606
- 335
395, 402, 403
- 180
- 434
76
- 263
730 Index to Vol. XXXIII. [parts
Phantasms of the Living—
Cases excluded 24-27, 31-32
included :
—
Collective and Reciprocal with no evidence of Agency external
to the Percipients 354-419
Auditory 392-394
Semi-Reciprocal and Reciprocal . . . . 394-419
Similar and Simultaneous Dreams - - - - 354-360
Visual Hallucinations, Recognised - - - - 378-392
,, Unrecognised - - - 360-378
Experimental : Crystal Visions 31-39
Semi-experimental :
Agent experimenting ------ 77-89
Pei'cipient experimenting - - - 39-44, 47-77
Crystal Visions ------ 40-50
Non-externaliscd Impressions - - - • 63-73
Table-tilting, etc. 73-77
Visions not in a crystal ----- 50-63
Spontaneous, in which the Percipient's Impression is not
externalised 90-150
Emotion transferred 100-104
Idea from distant Agent 104-109
Impressions of danger ------ 116-123
Menial Vision of complicated event - - - 148-150
Motor Impulse 109-116
Pain transferred - - - 90-94
Phrases transferred ------ 95-100
Thought of Agent and his condition - - - 128-141
True Impression. Doubtful agent - - - 142-148
Vague but insistent thought of Agent - - - 124-128
Spontaneous, in which the Percipient's Impression is exter-
nalised as a Waking Hallucination. Also Dreams of the
same character -------- 151
Ambiguous cases ------- 332
Agent doubtful 344-353
Coinciding event insufficiently marked, or time
coincidence uncertain - - - 333-344
Coincidence with ideas not connected with perciijient.
Unconscious telepathic leakage - - 313-331
Coincidence with ideas or wishes connected by the
Agent with the percipient - - - 287-313
Coincidence with illness or accident - - 243-286
Accident to Agent 271-286
Illness of Agent 243-271
Death Coincidences ----- 151-243
Appearance of relative of dying person - 231-235
Lxxxv.-Lxxxviii.] Index to Vol. XXXIII. 731
Phantasms of the Living—
Auditory 235-243
Symbolic experiences 235
Visual realistic—Uke a real person in percijjient's
surroundings - - - . . 152-203
Appearance not realistic - - - - 203-213
Visual Avith veridical or symbolic adjuncts - 213-231
Telepathy, Phenomena of
—
Agent affecting two or more percipients in different places 176-177
,, Conscious activity of, not necessary. See Semi-experi-
mental Cases : Percipient experimenting,
experimenting -------- 78-89
,, Special capacity in the, Evidence which suggests - - 176
See also Sections connected witli Agent in tabulated list
of Cases.
Collective and Reciprocal Cases, Value of as evidence - 419-420
Deferment of latency in telepathic impressions - 223 (footnote)
LocaUty, Experiences suggesting the influence of - - 182-183
Percipiency
—
Capacity for receiving impressions not always available - 176
Collective 275-276
Percipient the active party ------ 39-77
Two or more percipients affected in different places by
the same Agent 167-177
Process of telepathic communication, True type of - - 419
,, regarded as transfusion of minds, as compared with
transmission of thought - - . . 419-423
Reciprocal and Collective Cases, Value of as evidence - 419-420
True type of telepathic communication. Two cases suggesting
the 415-419
Phantasms of the Living, by Gurney, Myers and Podmore 23-24, 27-28,
39, 89, 90, 91, 94, 96, 189, 212, 240, 275, 323, 361 (footnote). 362, 419
Phillips, Mrs., Case contributed by ----- - 179-180
Piddington, J. G., Cases collected by 58-63, 144
,, Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War - . . . 439
Piper, Mrs., Mediumship of - - - - - - - - - 9, 435
Podmore, Frank, " Apparitions and Thought-Transference," Refer-
ence to cases published in - - - 24 (and footnote 24-25)
Pollard, Miss Sarah, Case confirmed by ----- - 400
PoUey, F. G., Evidence contributed by - - - - - - 55-56
Polley, John, Case contributed by ------- 54
Pool, Mrs., Case contributed by, reference to - - - - - 231
Pope, Messiah, Script reference to ------ - 563
Porter, Mrs. K. B., Case contributed by 282
Dr. W. G., Case confirmed by 284, 285
Possession, The phenomena of ------- - 434
732 Index to Vol. XXXIII. '
[parts
Potyguara, T., Evidence contributed by ----- - 162
Poupard, Miss G., Case contributed by - - - - - - 319
Powles, L. C, Cases contributed by - 50, 84-89
Powles, Mrs. L. C, Evidence contributed by 51
Presidential Address, by Dr. T. W. Mitchell . . . . . 1
Proceedings, Reference to cases of Phantasms of the Living published
in _ . 24 (and footnote 24-25)
Psychical Research and Medical Psychology - - -
6, 11, 16-18, 673
On the attitude of medical men to . . . 18-20
on the work of the Society for - 18, 19, 20, 435-436
Psycho-analysis 430-431, 432
,, as a method of investigation in psychical research - 17-18
Psycho-Analysis, Introductory Lectures on. Review of - - - - 432
Psychology of Medicine, Review of ------ - 430
Psychometry, Experiments in - - - - - - - 437, 438
Psychopathology of Everyday Life ------- 43.3
Purdon, Mrs., Case contributed by ------ - 292
R.
R., Miss, Case contributed by - - - - - - - - 231
R., T., Case confirmed by -------- - 380
Raleigh, Miss K., Case collected by 271
Raper, R. W., Case communicated by ------ 208
Rayleigh, The Dowager Lady, Case communicated by - - - 135
Reeves, Edward, Evidence contributed by - - - - - 207-208
Rendall, Vernon H., Case contributed by ----- - 109
Repression 430
Reviews 430, 432, 434, 435, 437, 673
Richet, Professor Charles, Cases contributed by - - - - 137, 262
Ridley, J. H. Wilkie, Case contributed by - 376
Rieken, Frau, Case contributed by ------ - 160
Rix, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert, Case contributed by - - - - - 242
Robinson, E. E., Case contributed by - - - - - - - . 91
Robinson, Mrs., Case contributed by ------ - 149
Robson, Miss M., Case contributed by - - - - - - - 309
" Rooke," Mrs., Case contributed by ------- 99
Rose, F. W., Case contributed by ------ - 86-88
Ruskin, Script references to - 458, 488, 491, 496, 497, 516, 521,
523-527, 534, 572-576
Russell, Mrs. E. S., Case contributed by 133
s.
S., Mrs., A Diary of Telepathic Impressions 81
Salis, Geoffrey, Evidence contributed by ----- - 43-44
Salis, Mrs., Cases contributed by 41, 43
Lxxxv.-Lxxxviii.] Index to Vol. XXXIII. 733
Salter, Mrs. W. H., Automatic Scripts of - 439-441, 445 (footnote)
446, 448, 4^9-450, 452-453, 456, 459, 463 (footnote), 467
(footnote), 468-469 (footnote), 473 (footnote), 474 (foot-
note), 478 (footnote). 483, 484. 503-504, 506, 507, 511
(footnote), 513-514, 519-520, 522, 52c', 529, 530, 531,
532, 533, 535, 537, 547, 548 (footnote), 550-551, 552, 560-
562, 563, 564, 571-573. 580, 581, 585-590, 595, 596-597
„ Cases contributed by ------- 71-76, 317
Saunders, James, Case contributed by 295, 297
Sch., Willie, Reference to the mediumship of - - - - 665, 666-
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S., Case collected by ----- -
387
„ Reviews :
Die Besessenheit 434
Einfuhrung in den OH-idtisinus und Siyiritisiiius - - 435
Medical Psychology and Psychical Research - - - 673
JJeher Telepathie und HeUsehen, experimentell-theoretische
Untersuchungen ------- 437
Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. Freiherr von, Reply to criticisms on his in-
vestigation of " Eva C." 665
Telepathic experiments by 82
Scott, Script reference to - - - - 562
Scott, Mrs., Case contributed by 205
Script References and Reminiscences
—
A. E. A Woman's Voice 461
Aeschylus, Eumenides ------- 531-532, 564
Aristophanes, Birds 557
A nold. Balder Dead - 462, 464
„ Empedocles on Etna - - 446
Aurelius, Meditations - - 541-542
Blake, Descriptive Catalogve ------- 510
„ Preface to Milton - - - 546
Browning, Prospice -------- 492, 500
Browning, Mrs., Aurora Leigh - - 593
Campbell, Hoheyilinden 473-474 (footnote)
,, LochieVs Warning ------- 487
,, Ye Mariners of England ------ 562
Chaucer, Truth - 488
QloMgh, Say not the Struggle - - - - - 461,463,468-469
Dante, Paradiso --------- 567-576
Dryden, Alexander's Feast - 467 (footnote)
,, On the Happy Restoration 551
Elhot, Jane, A Lament for Flodden ------ 472
Euripides, Bacchae --------- 494
Fairy Shij), The - - - - 448
Gray, Elegy in a Country Churchyard ------ 446
Hymns ----------- 488
734 Index to Vol. XXXIII. [parts
Script References and Reminiscences
—
Tn (Tf» 1 r\
\
\,' v^/) H i nh 1 i n P nyi i h p ( nn Qf rii T.i -ti /Til i} an
i
'vd
iiigCiu vv J
J. it<^ ixiyit _i iut; L/it fc/te \^unov uj j^t /cvui'/ioftit - - - 4rOJ
Tv (i£i'i"a T,rf ripllc Ttn 'iti p QHYt c IviPim - - - - '*o'±
T ,r\T\ fTTf^1 1 r^TiT" h P Ivf1 11 Q ni %-rf\fi nfi yi ft qI ninJ} i
ijuxi^icinj vv , J. /to ±y± ihijo UJ \jruu.' yt i/tii oiuwiy
IVli 1 ^TiTi /\ f n Qnlp m Ji/iit <i'i fl"
Murray, Introductory Essay to Euripides - 548
Newbolt, Drake s Drmn - - - _ _ - 466
Norse Mythology ------- - 550
O'Grady, ^ Bog of Stars ----- 467-468
Pope, Messiah ------- - 563
Ruskin, i^ors Clavigera - - _ . . - 458
ilfocZer/i Painters - - - . 488, 496, 497, 523-527, 534
Sesame and Lilies ----- - 515
Unto this Last ------ 491, 521, 572-576
Scott, Marmion ------- - 562
Scriptures : Old Testament - 464, 468, 470, 473, 474, 477, 478,
479, 480, 484, 488, 489, 491, 493,
494, 496, 497, 498, 528, 537, 538,
553, 555, 557, 560, 562, 563, 582
New Testament - 464, 465, 469, 471, 472, 474, 478,
479, 481, 493, 494, 497, 498, 507,
509, 511, 512, 514, 521, 530, 533,
534, 535, 538, 541, 555, 558, 561,
590, 592, 593
Shakespeare, Henry V. - - - - - - - - 465, 508
Macbeth - - - - 494
Merchant of Venice 530, 531, 533
,, Romeo and Juliet ------- 463
Shelley, Hellas 548-549 (footnote)
Swift, Battle of the Books 473
Swinburne, Erectheus --------- 546
Tennyson, In Memoriam, - - - 462, 479, 506, 507, 528, 529
,, Lotus Eaters, The ....... 491
„ Merlin and the Gleam 479, 542
„ Ode on the Death of the Duke of Wellington - - - 445
,, Victor Hugo ........ 541
,, Voyage of Maeldune, The ...... 565
Virgil, Aeneid 557, 558, 571
„ Fourth Eclogue 551
Wordsworth, Solitary Reaper ...... 483, 507
,, Three Years she Grew ...... 488
Scriptures, Script references to. See above, Script References.
Selous, Edmund, Experiments in telepathy by, Reference to - - 31
Lxxxv.-Lxxxviii.] hidex to Vol. XXXIII. 735
Sesame and Lillies, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - . . 515
Shakespeare, Script references to - - 463, 465, 494, 508, 530, 531, 533
Sharpe, J. W., Telepathic Impression 50-53
Shelley, Script references to . . . - . 548-549 (footnote)
Shield, Mrs., Cases contributed by - - - - - - 31, 387
Shi'ubsole, W. H., Case contributed by ------ 279
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
Evidence collected 178, 197, 368-370, 388
Phantasms of the Living. An Examination and Analysis of Cases
of Telepathy printed in the Journal ----- 23
Question put in connexion with Mrs. King's script - 482, 484, 508
Standard in examination of Mrs. Leonard's Book-Tests as com-
pared with Colonel Baddeley's in the pseudo book-tests 607-
608, 610, 612, 613
Silberer, H., Work of - - - 431
Silbert, Frau, Reference to the mediumship of - - - - - 668
Silva, Dr. C. H. da, Case contributed by 219
Sims, George R., Case contributed by, reference to - - - - 235
Singh, Prince Victor Duleep, Case contributed by - - - - 203
Smith, H. Arthur, Case communicated by - - - - - - 335
Society for Psychical Research, Work of the - - 18, 19, 20, 435-436
Somnamhules, Appreciation of time by - - - - - - - 621
Somnambulism, Hyfinotic and hysterical, as throwing light on medium-
istic trance phenomena - - - - - - - -13, 14
Spearman, Mrs., Case contributed by - - - - - - 168-171
Spears, Miss Elsie, Case contributed by ----- - 236
Spruit, Miss Lily, Case contributed by ------ 285
Steele, Miss Emma, Case contributed by - - - - - 398, 420
Stratton, F. J. M., Cases collected by - - _ ifji, 196, 319, 320
Sturge, Miss E., Case communicated by 213
Supernormal acquisition of knowledge in mediumistic trance and other
dissociated states - - - - - - - - - 9-18
Swdft, Script reference to - - - 473
Swinburne, Script reference to ------- - 546
T.
T., Miss S., Experiments in crystal vision ------ 35-39
T., ]\Irs. S., Case contributed by - - - 57
Table-tilting - 73, 76. 561-562, 564
Taylor, Miss E. M., Crystal visions 41-44
Taylor, Colonel G. Le M., Case communicated by - . _ _ 292
Telepathy, Experimental 437, 438
,, in relation to the supernormal acquisition of knowledge
exhibited in mediumistic and other trance states 10,
11, 12, 14-16
736 Index to Vol. XXXIII. [parts
Telepathy, Need of more experimental evidence on - 10, 26, 28,
89, 423, 438
See also Phantasms of the Living, by Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick.
Tennyson, Script references to - 445, 462, 479, 491, 506, 507, 528,
529, 541, 542, 565
Thelemann, Miss M., Case contributed by 212
Thomas, Miss Ethel, Case contributed by - 315
Thompson, Mrs. E., Case communicated by 351
Time, Appreciation of, by Somnambules, An Experimental Study - - 621
Tischner, Dr. R., Einfukrung in den OkJcultismus imd Spiritismus, by.
Review of 435
,, Ueber Telepathie itnd Hellsehen, experinientell-theoretische Unter-
snchungen ---------- 437
Trance Phenomena
—
Compared -with the phenomena of hypnosis, hysterical somnam-
bulism, and multiple personality 13-17
" Control," On the 12-13,14
Spirit hypothesis - - - - - - - - - 12-13
Treloar, Mrs., Case contributed by ------ - 265
Tyrrell, G. N., Case communicated by ------ 268
U.
U., Frau M., Case contributed by - - - - - - -110
Ueber Telepathie und Hellsehen, experimentell-theoretische Untersuch-
ungen. Review of --------- 437
Unconscious, Theories of the - - 431
V.
Van Helmont, References to - - - - - - - - 6, 7
Vavin, Madame, Case contributed by - 262
Verrall, Miss H. de G. -See Salter, Mrs. W. H.
Verrall, Mrs., Automatic Scripts of 439-441, 445 (footnote), 449-450,
456, 458, 459, 463, 468-469 (footnote), 478 (foot-
note), 483, 490, 493, 507, 508-509, 521, 529, 532
(footnote), 540-548, 556-559, 562-564, 567 (foot-
note), 581, 583-584, 691, 595, 596-597
„ Cases contributed and evidence collected by - 258-259, 317
Virgil, Script references to 551, 557, 558, 571
Visions, - 29 (footnote), 50, 53, 54, 57, 58, 148, 213, 243, 248, 278, 339
W.
Wait, Marshall, Case communicated by ----- - 282
Wales, Hubei't, Case collected by ------- 167
„ Report on Experiments in Telepathy - - 40 (footnote)
Lxxxv.-Lxxxviii.] Index to Vol. XXXIII. 737
Walker, Miss Agnes E., Case contributed by - - - - 144, 237
Walker, Mrs., Case contributed by 124
War references and forecasts in Scripts 439
Ward, Captain F., Case confirmed by - - - - 395,402,403,420
Ward, The Hon. Kathleen, Cases contributed by - - - - 255, 256
Warner, Mr., Case contributed by ^2
Watson, Mrs., Case contributed by - 173
Westminster Cathedral Chronicle, Case recorded in - - - -
287
White, E., Case contributed by ^37
Whiting, Miss L., Case communicated by ----- "
216
Wiliiinson, Miss M. S., Case contributed by 353
Willett, Mrs., Case communicated by - - - - - - -
180
" Willett," Mrs., Automatio Scripts of - 439-441, 453, 456, 459,
467 (footnote), 468 (footnote), 474 (footnote), 481-
482 (footnote), 508, 510, 511, 512, 514, 520, 522-
523, 542, 547, 580, 581-583, 591-595, 596-597
Williams, John A. A., Case contributed by 119
Williams, Miss M. H., Case contributed by - - - - - -
235
Williams, S. P., Case contributed by - - - - - - -
352
Wilhams, Mi-, and Mi-s. Thornton, Cases contributed by - - 92, 241
" Wilson, Miss A. E." (Mrs. Markham), Case confirmed by - - -
320
Wilson, D. H., Case contributed by
'^0-'^3
Wilson, Mrs. J. H., Case collected by, Eeference to - - 48 (footnote)
Wilson, Mrs. Stuart, Scripts of - - 439-441, 463 (footnote), 536, 537, 538
Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Experiments in telepathy by, reference to - -
31-32
Woollacott, Mrs., Case communicated by 319
Wordsworth, Script references to 483, 488, 507
Y.
Young, J. F., Cases contributed by - - - - 116, 128-131, 242
Z.
Zohrer, Joseph, Case contributed by ------ "
329
PRINTED IS GEKAT BRUMS EV ROBKRT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PKESS, GLASGOW.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
J-
Society for Psychical Resea^t^ %
Part LXXXV. Vol. XXXIII. June, 1922.
It*
Price 2s. Od. net.
CONTENTS
Presidential Address. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
PAOB
1
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
PRINTED rOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSB & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON.: FRANCIS EDWARDS, S3 High Street, Marylebone, W. 1.
GLASGOW : MACLEHOSE, JACKSON &, CO., 73 West Georqb Street.
AMERICA: THE F. W. FAXON CO., SS Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1922.
PRBSWBNT.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Earl of Balfoue, K.G., O.M.
F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, 0.M.,P.R.S.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Sir George Beilby, F.R.S., LL.U.
Captain Ernest N. Bennett.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.,
W. McDougall, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
Miss M. Radclyffe-Hall.
W. H. Salter.
Mrs. W. H. Salter.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
W. Whately Smith.
V. J. WOOLLBY, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.E.S., 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1888-1892,
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., O.M., F.R.S., - 1893.
Professor William James, 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., 1901-1903.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, 1905.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, .... 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 1908-1909.
H. Arthur Smith, 1910.
Andrew Lang, LL.D., 1911.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd Carpenter, D.D., - - 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson, 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, 1914.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., - - - 1915-1916.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., 1917-1918.
The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., - - - 1919.
W. McDougall, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B., 1920-21.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Eesearch, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.l.
The Rooms of the Societj^ at 20 Hanover Square, London, W.l, are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1,30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Parts LXXX.-LXXXIV.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LXXX.—October, 1920. Price 5s. ($1.50) net.
I. Presidential Address. By William McDodgall, F.R.S., M.Sc, paob
M.B., ........ 105
II. A Report on a Series of Cases of Apparent Thought Transference
without Conscious Agency. By Hubert Wales, . . 124
Supplement.
Bevieics :
Dr. L. T. Troland's "A Technique for the Experimental
Study of Telepathy and Other Alleged Clairvoyant Pro-
cesses." By P. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . . . 218
Prof. Sigmusd Freud's "Totem and Taboo. Resemblances
between the Psychic Lives of Savages and Neurotics. " Bv
J. C. Flugel, . . . . . 224
Lieut. E. H. Jones's "The Road to Endor." By W. H.
Salter, ....... 229
Part LXXXI.—April 1921. Price 6s. ($1.85) net.
I. An Examination of Book-Tests obtained in sittings with Mrs.
Leonard. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . . . 241
II. A Suggested New Method of Research. By W. Whately
Smith, ........ 401
Part LXXXIL—July 1921. Price 5s. ($1.50) net.
I. A Further Report on Sittings with Mrs. Leonard. By Mrs.
W. H. Salter, ....... 1
Supplement.
Reviews : I. Dr. A. v. Schrenck Notzing's '
' Physikalische
Phaenomene des Mediumismus." By F. C. S. Schiller,
D.Sc, 144
II, Dr. Max Dessoir's "Vom Jenseits der Seele," By F. C. S.
Schiller, D.Sc, . . . . . . 146
III. Dr. W. J. Crawford's "The Psychic Structures at the Goligher
Circle." By E. J. Dingwall, ... .147
Part LXXXIIL—July, 1921. Price 2s. 6d. (10.75) net.
I. Problems of Hypnotism : An Experimental Investigation. By Dr.
Sydney Alrutz, ....... 151
II. The Phenomena of Stigmatization. By The Rev. Herbert Thur-
ston, S.J., . . . . . . .179
Part LXXXIV.—January, 1922. Price 7s. 6d. ($2.35) net.
I, Report on a Series of Sittings with Eva C. ,
209
II. The Modus Operandi in so-called Mediumistic Trance. By Una,
Lady Troubridge, - - 344
Proceedings of the Society.
—
Continued.
Supplement, 379
Review : Dr. William Brown's '
' Psychology and Psychotherapy " ;
Dr. Constance E. Long's "Collected Papers on the Psychology of
Phantasy"; Mr. A. G. Tansley's "The New Psychology and its
Relation to Life." By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Bound Copies of Volumes I. -XXXI. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Fkancis^
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
^at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The F.
Faxon Co., 83, Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
Vol. I. Parts I. -IV.) . . pp. 336 8s. 3d. $2.35
II. >» V.-VII. ) . 340 7s. Id. $2.35
1
1
III. f
»
vm.-ix.) . 500 13s. 9d. $4.75
IV. k If X.-XI.) . 605 6s. 9d. $1.85
V. 99 XII.-XIV. ) . 606 8s. 7d. $2.35
VI. ft xv.-xvn.) . 707 10s. 7d. $3.25
1
)
VII. >> XVIII. -XX. ) . 442 7s. Id. $1.85
f
}
VIII. i )
XXL-XXIII.) . 647 lis. 9d. $3.35
) 1
IX. I i> XXIV. -XXV.) .
' . 407 6s. 9d. $L85
X. >j XXVI. ) . 466 6s. 9d. $1.85
XL ) J
XXVIL-XXIX.) . 637 8s, 3d. $2.35
XII. ft
XXX.-XXXI.) . 391 6s. $1.85
XIII. ff XXXIL-XXXIII.) . 653 8s. 7d. $2.65
XIV. ff XXXIV. -XXXV.) . 436 7s. 6d. $2.35
j> XV. >
»
XXXVI. -XL.) . 522 98. 4d. $2.65
)) XVI. ft XLI.) . 650 9s. $2.65
)
»
XVII. . ft XLII.-XLV.) . 468 93. 7d. $2.75
> J
XVIII. ff XLVI.-XLIX.) , 548 lis. 3d. $3.15
>> XIX. f f
L.-LIL) . 508 9s. 9d. $2.65
If XX. ft LIU.) . 444 9s. $2.65
>> XXI. k f f
LIV.-LVI.) . 584 9s. 9d. $2.65
))
XXII. L f f
LVII. ) . 445 93. $2.65
XXIII. > ft LVIIL-LIX.) . 602 10s, 6d. $3.15
)> XXIV. V f f
LX.-LXI.) . 758 lis. 3d. $.3.15
ij XXV. '
ff LXII.-LXIV.) . 540 9s. $2,65
»> XXVI. V t f
LXV.-LXVII.) . 544 9s. 9d. $2.65
XXVII. \ ft LXVIII.-LXX. ) . 562 9s. 9d. $2.65
XXVIII. \ f f
LXXI. ) . 657 10s. 6d. $3. 15
))
XXIX. V ff LXXII.-LXXIV.) . 467 10s. Id. $3.00
J
)
XXX. '
1
1
LXXV.-LXXVIir.) . 612 10s. 6d. $3.15
») XXXI. V ft LXXIX.-LXXXI.) . 476 10s. 6d. $3.15
) J
XXXII. ft LXXXII-LXXXIV. ) . 395 8s. 9d. $2.70
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. 6d. (50 c.)
each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
AMONG Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
