{"name":"Lavaters Looking Glass","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1800__lavater___lavaters_looking_glass.pdf","mytitle":"Lavaters Looking Glass","mylang":"de"}
LAVATER’S
LOOKING-GLASS;
jOR,
EJfays on the Face of Animated Nature,
FROM
MAN toPLAN TS.
DEDICATED TO
H E R G R A C E T H E D U C H E SS O F D E V O N S H IR E .
By Lavater, Sue, 8
CCo.
The wretch that wears no (miles upon his face,
And is not mov’d by honeily of heart
To fplit his (ides with laughter-loving dames,
W ho fpread the Graces, as with (port and glee
They mock the mifer's melancholy mood,
T ill raptures foon intoxicate the brain;
W hile Reafon yields her empire for an hour,
And fays (as Shalefpeare faid for John OiCombe)
“ Let nojuch mart be trvjled.”-------------
LONDON: ,
M IN TED BT MILLAR RITCHIE, MIDDLE STREET, CLOTH FAIR,
AND SOLD BY
MESSRS. RICHARDSONS, ROYAL EXCHANGE; SYMONDS, 20 PATERNOSTER ROW ;
LACRINGTON, ALLEN, AND CO. FINSBURY SQUARE J AND
GEISWEILER, PARLIAMENT STREET.
1800.
Digitized by Google
9 M
O
V
. 1344 §]
> Itir
iv
.m gì
ír.r.'l <¡
¡&J
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
Digitized by
TO
HER G R A C E ,
GEORGIANA,
DUCHESS OF DEVONSHIRE,
This Volume
IS MOST HUM BLY INSCRIBED,
BT
Lavater, Sue, 8
C Co.
a Lavater,
Digitized by Google
Digitized by GoogI<
Lavater, Sue, S
C Co.
TO THE
LITERARY AND FASHIONABLE WORLD.
<
WE commit fome manufcripts
to the preis with diffidence, being fenfible that,
as piitures of the fame obje&s vary according
to each Painter's merit, fo mother Nature has left
a wide field for different defcriptions of her beau-*
ties. We do not, however, pluck a wreath from
Lavater’s venerable brow by prefixing his good ■
Name to a Book that prefents fome of his intereft-
ing Sketches in a new point ofview, with additional
Obfervations on the Animal Creation} nor have
We failed to affign to that eminent Phyfiognomift'
fuch a ihare of Profit upon it as fhall be deemed
confident with judice, efieem, and fellow-feeling
for him, at a moment when he is differing in th?
caufo
Digitized by Google
Vili ADDRESS.
caufe of his much-injured country,----- Switzer­
land.
Upon this honourable ground, where we
commit no depredation upon any privileged pro­
perty, nor even blindly follow that great ProfeiTor
in all the flights of Fancy, we think it incumbent
on us to ufe the preceding Title, and adopt the
Signature of L av a t e r , Sue, Co. for our joint
benefit, in order to announce the real founders
of a repaft intended for liberal minds.
Were the whole found agreeable to the wife
order of things, it would be needlefs to trace
any further the hearts which beat high with zeal
to cultivate the neglected Art of Reading Faces,
from a conviftion that it might be rendered equal­
ly pleafant and ufeful to the thinking part of man­
kind. •
Nay, there are enlightened men, bred in the
L avatertan School, and buoyed up. with faith
in dodtrines fuperficially confidered, tor lightly con?
demned, upon vulgar notions and popular preju-
. . . . dices.------
Digitized by Google
ADDRESS. IX
dices.----- To them it is unneceffary to fay, what
they know, that Dr. S u e is honourably mention­
ed in L a v a t e r ’s Treatife on Ofteology, as a
Man difiinguilhed for Anatomical Knowledge, and
as a Member of the molt learned Societies, at
Home and Abroad.
Suffice it, therefore, to add, that it is his Effay
on Living Creatures, with variations, or, at leaft,
S u e ’s ideas clothed in the Britilh language o f
freedom, that we fubmit, with our refpeftful ap­
peal, to the Public Tribunal.
This Analyfis of that Work has been made
under the impreffion of experience,—that exhibi­
tions of naked truth applauded in France, were
ill calculated for the pure manners of Britain,
where Grecian Statues want a veil adapted to
Englilh delicacy.—Thus, whatever imperfections
Critics may find in our attempt to embellilh
Surgical Remarks, in a Syftem founded on French
and German ground-works, we trufl, that even
they will give us credit for our endeavours to pleafe
and
Digitized by Google
X ADDRESS.
and inftruft the riiing youth« without offending
the chafteft ear.
Indeed, as our Pen has not been accufed
of flattery, we truft, that it will never be dif-
graced for raifing unpleafant feelings in any breaft.
Lavater, , #
CONTENTS
Digitized by Google
C O N T E N T S
OF T H I
Following FJJays.
E ssa y f. O N the Neceffity of Studying the Conilitu-
tion of Living Creatures, and the imitative
Arts.
II. On the Dimenfions of the Human Body,
and Diftin&ion« according to A ge, Sex,
and Country.
III. On National Cuftoms, DreiTes, and Orna­
ments, which change, hurt, diftort, or
disfigure the Human Species.
IV. On the Queftion, Whether Anatomical
Knowledge might be fuificiently acquired
without DifTe&ion ?— Remarks on the
Sports, Diicipline, and Surgical Principles
of the ancient Greeks.
V . On Grace and Beauty.
¡VI. On Expreffion or Chara&er in Painting, &c.
V II. On the Paffions.
V III. On
Digitized by Google
Xll CONTENTS.
E m a t V III. On Man.
IX . On the Varieties of the Human Species.
X . On the Differences of Stature, Complexion,
&c.
X I. On the Principles adapted for Studying
Phyfiognomy. *
X II. On a Man’s Walk, Running, and Leaping.
XIII. On the Five Senfes.
X IV . On Changes produced by the leading Paf­
fions, as they are impreifed on the Human
Countenance; and the whole Appearance
of the Body, with refpe&to Punting.
X V. Anatomical Explanations of Changes produc­
ed by the PaiEons upon the Human
Figure.
X V I. On Phyfiognomy, and the Study of Fea­
tures ; with Rules, &c.
X V II. On the Ufe of Paintings, Portraits, & c.;
with a ihort Account of the beil Painters
and Profeffors of Phyfiology.
X V Itl. On the Features of Animals.
X IX. On Birds.
X X . On°Fifhes.
X X I. On Amphibious Animals.
X X II. On Infeds.
X XIII. On Worms.
X X IV . On Vegetables.
INTRO-
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION,
S e v e r a l proteftors and profelfors of tlie finè
arts hâve approved of our refe'arches refpefting the
paffions and theîr expreffions: wë have therefore
thoùghf it incumbent on us to Comply with their
wilhes, by communicating the refult of further in­
quiries, àftèr having fully treated this important
matter with refpeft to art and nature* painting and
phyfiognomy.
It is with a View to gênerai utility* more than
from a délité of gaining fame, that we prefent à
fériés of obfervations paving the way to difcoveries.
—In thefe Eflays every article may be conlidered
as a liep leading intelligent beings to a better light*
whete they will attain the fummit of their purfuits,
bjr feeling themfelves convinced that all living crea­
tures have a fet of features and complexion* forming
fo many pages of that great book of Nature which
it is our duty to learn ;—-nay, the perufal of it is fo
much the mote eafy, as it is a delightful talk to gra­
tify that innate paillon, the llrong curiofity to know
ourfelves.
B Even
Digitized by Google
II IN TRODUCTION-
Even with the dawn of reafon, does not a child
pretend tojudge offaces?—At every ftage, are not
the penetrating eyes of a man direCted to find out
the fecret thoughts of the ftranger whom he meets ?
—And do we not daily hear it faid, as an incontes­
table truth, that fuch-a-one is lively, dull, thought­
ful, peeviih, melancholy, &c. merely from a glance
at his exterior appearance ?
Certain it is, that the human form, particularly the
countenance, is Stamped with a distinguishing mark,
by which the mental emotions may be difcemed; the
body being juftly called a fubStantial image of the
mind, or the foul itfelf rendered vifible. It is, like-
wife, univeffally acknowledged, that the improve­
ment of talents ought to be the firft objeCt of our
Studies} for Genius produces fuch mafter-pieces as
refleCt honour on his creative power. Beauty aflerts
equal rights to the productions of-the liberal arts,
becaufe the colours, fo often employed to paint the
Graces, are embellished in thofe hands which had
been only deemed fit to ufe the needle; infomuch
that a living model of perfection, a Venus, may take
up the painter’s pallet, and fill his place.
Befides, how isit poffible that the fair fex Should fail
to excel in painting, lince the charming eye pierces
through the molt intricate lineament, and feizes
the likenefs without miffing a Shade ofdistinction !
Let, however, the Strong paffions be Still expreffed
with- bolder Strokes of art from the firm hand of
manj
\ Digitized by Google
i N f R O D U C T IÖ N . Ill
tnan j but it would be difficult for him eithef
to fee, conceive, or take off moving figures in
a lively fcene, where love and harmony combined
to dire£l the powers of retracing youthful looks,
grace and motions keeping pace with the pulfe of
fenfibility.* Thefe varying beauties are beft re-
ferved for woman’s gentle touch and refined feelings.
Indeed, we might fupport our affertionSj by men­
tioning many linking inftances of fuperiot excel­
lence in the faireft part of the creation; but we ihall
only dwell, at prefent, on thofe heroic a£tions
by which French women have immortalized their
name9 during the late memorable revolution.
Buoyed up above the fear of death by Centi­
mental courage, they carried to the higheft pitch
* W e have given an imperfeft imitation of Dr. Sue’s following
compliment to the fair lex. A vouons(lays he), que
douK, delkals, legers, £? milled(tails que I’homme ne dijlingu
ou qu'il eraint d’a p p r e f o n d i r ,font au fentiment au
geux qu’admirable, & H latouche fine & des femmes. On
this occafion a fair lady can bell determine, whether we have raifed
the lame fenfationi in her breaft, by an allulion to feme of thofe
thouland graces which the French phyiiclan left to our imagination ;
but in order to convey his idea beyond the literal meaning, it ftruck
us, that we ought to imagine fuch a lively fcene as is reprefented ill
the Dancing Hours, of which a copy is in our pofleflion ; and as
the original piifture is painted on a ceiling in the Rofpigliolo Palace,
we fuppofe that it has not yet followed the viilor’s triumphal car, as
other precious monuments have done, and will ever do, fo long as
the fine arts are efteemed and cultivated.
B 2 that
Digitized by Google
i y I N T R O D U C T '.IO N .
that enthufiafm, which was- the fource ofi fuch ge*
nerous facrifices as dignified misfortunes, by proving
a,legal title to that empire of our hearts, which they
were before fuppofed to have ufurped by their
charms.
Be that as it may, we mull take notice of fimilar
treatifes written by our predeceflbrs ; but as the
greateft part of them contain a mixture offalfe prin­
ciples with truth, we need only mention, in the firft*
place, Galien’sjudicious Reflections, with Le Brun’s
excellent Treatife on the Paflions, the Philofophical
Enquiries of Defcartes, Diderot’s pofihumous work
on the 'A rt. of Painting, Baronefs de Stael’s
Confiderations on the, Happinefs of^Nations; and,
a^ove all, Lavater’sJEflays on Phyfiogpomy^ a pro­
duction that forms an invaluable reçprd in the hif.
tory of mankind. Indeed, too many encomiums caiv
not be bellowed on this laft eminent writer, whofe
judgment appears ip his choice of romantic views,
prefented to the world as a fet offragments, without
order, becaufe he felt the difficulty of an attempt to
compleat a regular fyftem, on a grand fcale, adapted
to fuch fublime ideas asoverleaped thé bounds of art.
It is true, indeed, he faw men and things
through a medium ill-fuited to common eyes j yet,
fince he collected a mafs of materials fufficient for
the foundation of a more perfeCt theory than his
own, there is room to hope that he will form it, ,by ■
. following
Digitized by Google
following the train of thoughts fuggefted; for
it might be dangerous to build caitles in the
-air, without knowledge founded on repeated ex­
periments.
Let us, neverthelefs, acknowledge the fatisfaition
and inftru£tion received from that great profejj'or of
phyjtology, while we pafs over in iilence the flights
of fancy, the vifions of an eccentric character, and
the errors of an honeft man, whom we love, refpeit,
and admire, much as we may differ from him upon
effentiàl points.
He it was that eameftly recommended anatomjr
to painters, phyfiognomifts, and all thofe who wifh
to know themfelves, and ftudy the human frame.—
Indeed, he excelled in that liberal art ; and, when
young Undents find him ^exprefs his regret for not
having cultivated it fufficiently, they will feel thè
neceffity, of devoting their time to a fcience fo clofely
connefcted with their profeflions.
The advantages to be derived from a literary
Effay of this kind, cannot be reprefented in a fairer
light, than by fuppofing the cafe of a pupil em­
ployed to paint a fea-port, containing inhabitants
from different countries ; an iiland full of various
animals, with feveral kinds of plants ; or a battle
between troops of two contending nations : fuch a
youth will flatter himfelf with the vain thought ot
having juftly delineated the objefts in queltion, by
B 3 taking
IN T R O D U C T IO N . V
Digitized by Google
IN T R O D U C T IO N ,
faking off the fuperficial view of living creatures,
with the drefs peculiar to each nation,
But naturaliils will inform him, as we do, that
between one call of people apd another there are
fhades of difference, as well as through the whole
creation, from man and bead down tp the plant.
For inftance, a Dutchman’s (kujl is rounder, has
larger and more regular bones, with the hollow part
about the cheek bone not fo even as others,
In like manner, animals and plants, qf the fame
country and fpecies, differ remarkably in colour,
fize, conftitutiqn, ancl length of life.
Hiftorica! painters and limners will appreciate
remarks qf this fort and qthers, abundantly fupplied
by Lavater. From fuch (lores we (hall occafionally
chufe a portion, ip the cpurfe qf pur following me*
ditations.
vi
LAVATER’S
Digitized by Google
LAVATER’S LOOKING-GLASS
ESSAY I,
On theKecejfity of Studying the Conjlitution qf
Living Creatures, and the Imitative
AT an exhibition of pictures, the majority of
fpectators is captivated by lively colours,
over-ftrained forms, and extravagant embelliihments.
So long as their fenfes and foibles are flattered, they
gaze with pleafure at a dauber’s painting, which will
not ftand the tell of a difcerning eye, when it comes
to be appreciated by the flandard of true tafte and
judgment.
But men endowed with thefe qualities will find
out a mafter-piece, that has been flighted or unno­
ticed by vulgar eyes.
Their raptures, then, proceed from admiration of
juft defign, true likenefs, comely looks, and every
trivial appendage that ftrikes them at once in a
pi£ture, where, with one glance, they fee art ap­
proach Nature’s faireft ihape, fo far as to renew, on
their minds, the impreflions made by the real ob-
B 4 je£ts
Digitized by Google
jeSs reprefented. Yet, while the beft mafter-pieces
are not valued in France fo much as in other
countries, the artifls have reafon to complain of
injuflice done to them in that refpeft ; becaufe, in
fo difficult a profeffion, the qualifications, applica­
tion, and information required, exceed any idea
conceived by people not converfant with arts and
fciences.
Nature is a ftingy mother, and difpenfes with a
fparing hand the noble talents neceflary to imitate
her complexion, motions, and expreffion. She has
bellowed on Genius alone that free gift, the divine
flame which forms her ftrong colours and grandeft
features. An equal degree of perfeftion cannot be
attained merely by dint of labour j yet the heavenly
fpark, producing fiich happy effe£ls, is indebted tq
jnduftry for giving full {¡cope to invention and imi*
tation. Thus an artifl would grope in the dark for
ever, without accomplifhments derived from addit
tional principles, equally indifpenfable as the tech­
nical rules that he.follows. We allude to a know­
ledge of hiftory, mythology, or the fables of the
heathen gods, and anatpmy ; for a man who prac-
tifes a liberal profeflion, unlefs he be a proficient in
thefe matters, muft be condemned to live in per-?
petual obfcurity.
1 Many arguments are needlefs to prove furgical
knowledge a prime requifite in a painter, as he
would labour in vain to reprefent the mpfl delight-
V ......1 r .............................................. ful
3 J,AV A TER f6
Digitized by Google
J,00,KING-GÏ. ASS. 9
fful fituations and varied profpe&s, were not ca­
pable of drawing and defcribing all the component
parts of the human body, Nay, how cold, dull,
and gloomy, would his landfcapes appear, with­
out feeing enlivened by the prefence of living crea­
tures, efpecially man, the moft perfefit being that
pame from the Creator^ hand !
Nothing foclearly demopftrates the utility of the
fcienee of anatomy, as the fpecial care taken by the
firft matters, in all ages, to acquire'a proficiency in
fuch a collateral branch of their refpeftive profefc
flops.
It was thus that Raphael, Michael Angelo, Gfo­
lio Romano, the Carracci, Dominichini, Le Brun,
I_e §ueur, and other painters, fculptors, and archi­
tects, immortalized their names. Indeed, fo per-
fuaded was Michael Angelo of the importance of
anatomical obfervations for improving the imita­
tive arts, that he formed a defign of publiihing a
pompleat treatjfe on the mufcular motions. What
a lofs to the republic of letters that his project was
never executed! For who better than him could
have given ufeful leffons upon a fubjeflt that he had
long confidered in the moft pleating point of view j
fince there never was his equal for joining the
cleareft theory to, the moft compleat execution ?
>
His fuperior abilities are ftill difplayed in all thofe
monuments of Roman grandeur which came from
his pencil or his chifel, and have excited the ad­
miration.
Digitized by Google
10 l a v a t e r 's
-miration of every age by their ftriking beauty and
exa£t fymmetry. . '
. Confequently, in- conjunftion with Leonard de
Vinci, that great mailer was beft qualified to efta-
-blifli, as he did, thofe famous academies in Italy,
which even Raphael did not difdain to confult.
Hence the principal qualification for juft defigns
appears to be derived from an attentive ftudy of the
human f
r
a
m
e
, confidered in all its parts, poftures,
and points of view. The ftudent muft therefore
fee, direit, or perform the chief furgical operations,
fo far as to lift into the maze or inner works of that
ajtonijhing m
a
c
h
i
n
e
, while he flackens or loofens the
mufcles, and proves, by feeling or ocular demon-
ftration, the exiftence even of the flighted excref-
cence, tallying with the models before him. He
ihould obferve minutely how different particles of
the bony fyftem are put out of order, and wound up
again by adding freih fprings to the mufcles; and
it is equally neeeifary for him to make other expe­
riments,'to diffcover the outward effe£t of interior
ehanges in the grand clock-work in queftion; for,
when the caiufes are known, their effe£ls can be
more juftly delineated.
• Nature is moft faithfully copied by a painter that
fees her fecret works through a veil, becoming
tranfparent in his eye after he has ftudied anatomy.
• A Angle look then fuffices for him to take offthe
likenefs of thofe vifible objects, which he fixes on
his canvafs with-equal fidelity and precifion.
It
Digitized by Google
It is not, however, left true, that pra&itioners
only can form a juft conception of the time required
^o imprefs upon a fpe£lator’s mind, fuch a delufion
as to make him imagine that an admirable mafter-
piece was produced by bold or fudden ftrokes of
art; but when merit meets with applaufe from thofe
who know the pains taken, and difficulties over­
come, it affords the moft acceptable recompenfe:
yet the cool indifference that moft people feel in
feeing Nature difplayed, produces in them the fame
infenfibility whenever they review a juft reprefen-
tation of her faireft works; for a ftrift refemblance
between fuch copies and originals only ferves to
renew feiifations familiar to vulgar minds. In that
cafe the painter would be left meritorious, were he
more applauded by the ignorant clafs, whofe ex­
ample in high life renders it fometimes unfalhion-
able to take much notice of paintings, where every -
objeft bears its natural appearance.
You, then, young pupils, who have an honeft
ambition to rife and make a figure in the world,
above all things fail not to ftudy Nature. Read
daily fome pages of her volumes, and fet no. value
upon other books, unlefs they are commentaries of
her fuperior work. Yes; the human body alone
contains a compleat fyftem of anatomy*, which
LOOKING-GLASS. 11
* O N A N A T O M Y .
Anatomy reveals great Nature’s plan,
Difplays on earth the majefty of man,
you
Digitized by Google
1(2 XiAY^ATEfR’S
y©\afbi>uW s have beforeyoureyes, as the fob-
je& of caotemplation, and the means of attaining
perfeftioh
W hole curious frame betrays the power divine,
W ith God’s own image ftamp’d on every hue
O f features, glowing with a foul refin’d,
T o prove the face a mirror of the mind.
Upright, he moves along with folemn pace,
Looks up to Heaven, or courts the kind embrace
O f blooming Love, whofe temple he admires;
While Venus imiies, infpiring warm ddires,
Adorned by Flora, by the Graces dreft, *
Like mother Eve, by Adam kifs’d and bleft.
Their paradife, replete with heavenly joys,
Supplies the modern race of girls and boys ;
Endear’d by ties of blood and tender hearts
T o Atfculapius, who reviews the parts,
Where Death too fbon defigus his fatal blow,
T o crop the flowh6, which wither as they grow.
Thus Art to mortals fhews the book of fate,
Where cowards may their doom anticipate.
Has Hunter ihewn how babes fill every vein,
guck in the womb* and fortify the brain ;
How flamp’d on each created living breed,
The leading marks difeover ev’n the weed ?
The drugs that Bulkley fells,, or Jones refines,
Flies, plants, and cochineal have varying lines;
Up to proudman, who, fov'reign lord in name, '
Calls God rhoft: high defigner of his frame.
This truth will Campbell feel, and Thynne impart .
In feeling language fuited to the heart;
That fcience beff refines the joys of fenfe,
And proved in all the wife Omnipotence i
• What
Digitized by Google
lOOIHSG-Oi/A-SS. 13
perfection in taking off men and animals- asr they-
really are, in the various attitudes required; to mark
the common effort of all the limbs and parts, tend­
ing to one united motion of the whole creature,*
and proceeding from an over-ruling will, puffing
on, in perfect concert, every particle that contri­
butes to perfeCt his views.
The very intention, as well as the aCt of moving,
ffould alfo be afcertained and delineated by a good
painter, who knows that all thefe circumftances
cannot be'properly reprefented without an adequate
knowledge of the bony and mufcular fyftems.
In ffort, how many objeCts would never have
been copied upon canvafs, brafs, or marble, had not '
the diffector paved the way through that labyrinth
which forms the ground-work of the whole animal
creation ? Without fuch light, an artift would re­
ferable a man blind-folded, with his genius blunted,
and brilliant ideas ftifled before their birth; for,
What glorious works are feen in every page
O f Nature’s volume, teaching youth and age,
Clear as the fun, refulgent light of day,
That darts at mortal eyes his facred ray.
Let, then, the ftudy of mankind be freed :
T o ftrike the lifelefs hofom, think, and read -
The records of creation, with the (lore
O f beings, quick or dead, in days of yore ;
For, tracing out the ways of Providence,
N Knowledge will yield fair Virtue’s recompenfe.
1 unlefs
Digitized by Google
14 l a v a t e r ’s
unlefs he knew the exact length, form, and ufe, of
every mufcle, it would be quite impoilible for him
to take off juftly any motion depending on inward
fprings.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 15
ESSAY II.
* V '
On theDimenjions of the Human Body, and D is­
tinctions, according to Age, Sex, and Country.
BY fair proportions of the human frame, we un­
derhand due fymmetry, or juft meafure of each part,
compared to the whole ; together with their refpec-
tive connexions, relative to the different ufes of all
parts.—In this refpeX Nature varies infinitely, as ihe
does in all her works; for, comparatively fpeaking^
we find that the fame members will not be found
of equal fize in two perfons, nor always a man
without a limb, or fome other particle, ill matched
with the reft.
Authors who have treated the art of Painting,
have laid down fure rules for the purpofe of afcer-
taining juftly all thofe meafures upon a general
fcale ; yet the ftandard of excellence, thus formed
from obfervations, does not only originate in a va­
riety of good models, but is likewife the effeX of
true tafte, founded on our innate knowledge of con-
fcious natural beauty.
Thus, when Zeuxis was at a lofs how to furnilh
a piXure of Helen, he reviewed the moft celebrated
Sicilian beauties ; chofe one perfeX leading feature
from
Digitized by Google
í a v a t e r V
from each of them, and mingled all their charms td
form the fair paramour of Paris. '
In like manner Phidias, the fcülptor, united iri
Jupiter’sftatue the various perfections of athoufand
living models.—It was in the fame way that the_
moft ingenious men of ancient Greece tranfmitted
to pofterity a criterion, by which we have learnt to
value Nature’s glorious works. Confequently Gre­
cian ftatijes, being mere copies of human figures,
are confidered as difplaying an original type of per-
feftion, far exceeding what is ever found in a íiñgle
living individual. Hence came the rules of beauty
adopted by painters, and too numerous to require a1
particular difcuflion in this ftage of our inquiries.
The Variations are according to age, fex, and
country. At the critical period when Nature com­
municates thé fpark of life, her fyftem is invifible.
, In vain would the curious eye attempt to penetrate
her wifdom in the firlt ftage : nor is it poflible for a
painter to penetrate the great work in embryo. Let
us, therefore, pafs it over in refpectful filenCe until
the timé of maturity, when it prefents a fubject to
be confidered in three points of view.
Infancy extends from a child’s birth till it is
twelve years old. The middle term is when his
figure begins to appear in fueh a ftate of innocence
as commands the limner’s attention. In the firft,
fécond, or third year of exiftence, the feeble frame
is'not fo completely fortned as to be called perfect,
' More
té
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 17
^lore promifing than beautiful, the infant then ex­
hibits only a faint iketch of his future felf.
At fix or feven years of age his childiih looks
give way to figns of growing youth.
But were a painter to know no more of his pro-
feflion, than merely to diminifh the different pro­
portions in all the members of the human body,
without making an allowance for the difference of
age, he would draw the likenefs ofa little man when
he attemped to furnifh the picture of a child. For
inftance, in a full-grown lad, the os pubis is in the
middle of his body; but when he came into the
world, half his meafure was at the navel. •
There are other diftinfHons peculiar to childhood.
New-born infants have the head difproportioned to
the other parts, with plump cheeks, hands puffed up,
arms, legs, and thighs en enbonpoint. Their muf-
cular fibres are feparated by a ground-work of flight
firings, interwoven in fuch abundance as prevents
them from giving full tone to the mufcles, and
ftretching their tender limbs.
In drawing an infant, the ancients were mere
bunglers, although they excelled in painting a full-
grown perfon. Their clumfy diminutive figures
prove, beyond doubt, that they had few opportu-
nitiesof feeing perfeQ:modelsof childhood, but were
ftruck with the conftant fight of the moft athletic
and handfome Greeks at the Olympic games, and
other divetfions of their days, where they appear to
C the
Digitized by Google
l à v a t e r ’s
the .greateft advantage. Nay, among modern paint­
ers, Domenichini was the firft who gave to the pic­
tures of babes, that grace, andthofe delicate touches,
which Nature has lavished on them. He feized
that true likenefs which his predeceffors could not
attain.
It is in their fixth or feventh year that children
exhibit a fine but unfiniihed (ketch of M AN; and.
as it is only then that they begin to grow handfome,
people who are nice upon this point agree in opi­
nion, that they ought not to fit for their piftures at
an earlier period, according to the cuftom of former
times.
At that early age, a living beauty ferved as a
model for Cupid’s much admired ftatue at Thefpia,
equal to the Venus of Medicis j and a comely lafs,
not younger, fat for a pi&ure of the Goddefs of
Love, drawn by Hannibal Carracci, and represent­
ing Danae, while Jupiter defcends in a cloud with
a ihower of gold.
While boys and girls are growing, their ftature
increafes gracefully, more in height than breadth, or
bulk. The limbs are ilim, the mufcles are difen-
tartgled, the whole human frame by degrees dis­
covers the fair mould wherein it was turned without
a blenriih. When the full natural fize is attained,
a comely complexion receives freih embelliihments
il mind, good living, and a conftant
flow
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 19
flow of fpirits. Having reached the higheft enjoy*
ments and moil pleafing endearments of life, man
then difplays his vigorous and majeftic form, as lord
of the creation. .
Manhood is equally marked with fuch ftriking
ihades of variations as will not efcape a painter’s
eye. At that period, corpulency often overftrains
features, once fo regular ; the limbs become un­
wieldy, while the mufcles are encumbered and
checked by changes afféfling the whole fyftem :
yet, much as an exceffive corporation disfigures the
lines of grace and elegance, a moderate fliare of
comelinefs is very becoming. .
Men do not pafs rapidly from the vigour of life
to the vale of years. If at fifty they begin to go
down bfll, they frequently wear fo well as not to
be old in conftitution.
It is, however, about that age, and until the fixty-
fifth year, that their decline is firft perceptible.
Plump and jolly looks give way towrinkles : fprwajft
of fufficient elaftic tone through the whole frame,
the lkin, like cloth, takes a rougher plait, particular­
ly on the cheeks and forehead. At laft a bald, fur­
rowed brow ; a pale, ihrivelled, toothlefs face, and
bopes jutting out, are figns of approaching diffo-
lution. Even the ftature diminifhes. A giant’s
fpine, or main pillar, finks under the weight of
years. His mufcles become too weak to glue tor
gether that*chain of Nature’s fyftem ; the joints of
C 2 his
Digitized by Google
his legs and arms, being grown ftiff, refufe to per­
form their duty:
Other fymptoms of final decay announce a flce-
leton by anticipation, while death waits in ambuib,
Impatient for his prey. .
Let us return, with due refpeft, to the fair fex.
A perfonable woman, well fbaped, is more flen-
der, and has ilighter bones, than a man ; her ftature
Is likewife fmaller, the neck longer, with the lower
part of the breaft narrower.
The bafe or circumference of Venus, taken in
one point of view, is alfo broader, compared with
the form of Apollo. Her thighs are thicker her legs
ftouter, her feet fmaller, her mufsles lefs vifible, and
her limbs more elegantly turned, in addition to a fet
of features and complexion peculiar to the beautiful
objeft of wedded Love.
In the next place, we come to confider the ma­
terial difference depending on climate, with regard
to the fize and colour of people.
A good painter will not, we know, draw a Pata­
gonian like a Laplander, nor make an European
refemble an African blackamoor. He will take off
the national diftinguifhing feature perceived in ,
every country. In his piftures, the Frenchman, the
Englifhman, and the Circallian, muft appear as they
really are, formed in Nature’s faireft fhape; while
the Calmouck and Greenlander fhould be repre­
sented ip their .true light, with diminutive eyes,
ihapelefs
20 l a Va t e r ’
s
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 21
lhapelefs faces, and hollow noftrils. The Carribee
lhould likewife be diftinguiihed by his flat ikull and
piercing eye.
Some diftin&ions are merely artificial. We ihall
flightly mention inftances of particular caprices.
The original inhabitants of Guiana look upon a
long neck as a deformity; they, therefore, begin
betimes to take great pains in making that part fall
into the breaft, fo as to bring their fight upon a
level with the Ihoulders.
The native Peruvians and Brafilians bore their
nofes, noftrils, lips, and cheeks, for the purpofe of
wearing filh-bones, plumes of feathers, and other
ornaments; while others pierce thofe parts and their
eye-lids with needles, or wear very large rings
around their mouths.
The Omaguas flatten the faces of their children,
by prefling them between two boards. Boring a
large hole in each ear, they adorn it with a nofe-
gay of flowers or herbs ; and this faihion of extra­
ordinary ears prevails in all oriental countries.
The Hottentots bruife the nofes of their children;
for to them a too prominent ftriking feature would
be a deformity. Both fexes blacken their ikins
with greafe and foot.
The inhabitants of Nicobar daub their counte­
nances with green and yellow paint, and dye the
the hair of their children with coarfe vermilion.
C 3 The
Digitized by Google
22 l a Và t e r ’s
The wandering Arabs, and fonre African wo­
men, paint the chin and lips with an indelible
blue; adorning other parts oftheir bodies with fan-
taftical figures, in the fame colour.
The Moguls tear up their fleih into the ihape of
flowers, like the effeCt of cupping-glaffes; and,
being painted with the juice of roots, thefe orna­
ments make their perfons refemble a piece of co­
loured manufacture.
The Tunquinefe and Siamefe blacken the teeth
Ivith a kind of varniih, pretending that their na­
tural whitenefs is unbecoming, fince it puts man
upon a par with other living creatures; and, in
order to make this whimfical change durable, they
fubmit to an abftinence of feveral days under that
painful operation. But thefe favages, and the ne­
groes on the coaft of Guinea, have a ftill ftranger
cuftom, which is, to run the noftrils through with
a peg about four inches long, and of a finger’s
■breadth; fo that its two ends, touching the cheek­
bone, apparently diminiih the fize ofthe nofe : they
likewife wear ftill larger pins in their ears.
Every fimilar cuftom increafes the natural de­
formity of people far removed from the ftandard of
perfection, confident with our ideas. Indeed, na­
ture feems to have treated them as ill-favoured
children of a crofs ftep-mother. In point of tafte,
they furn'ifh no models in their drefs, caprice, igno­
rance, and habits of life; for, accuftomed to fee ;
their
Digitized by Google
their o,wn frightful felves, their eyes cannot be im­
proved to the level of beauty ; nor can they divert
themfelves of prejudices fo deeply rooted, and early
fucked in, as we may fay, with the mother’s milk.
If we vifit the northern regions of Europe, Lap­
landers, Samoi.des, Bozandipns, Greenlanders, Ef-
quimaux, and others, will be found to differ oply ip
.(hades of ;pglinefs, having the face broad apd flaj,
the nofe fmaihed, eye-lids drawn out towards the
temples, very large mouths, thick lips, high cheeks,
thick and ihqrt heads, Squeaking voice, fmall ita-
ftute, Squat and lean, and feldom above four to four
and a half feet high.
Nor are the.different inhabitants of Xartary hand-
fomer than thole juft now defcrihed- The Cal-
moucks, particularly, may be nailed Superlatively
ugly; having their faces fo Hat and wide as to
leave an intermediate fpace of five pr fix inches
between their.eyes, which are extremely1fmall, and
with a nofe fo flat as to exhibit only two cavities
for noftrils, Their upper jaw is funk inwards, and
the lower one juts out in ghaftly horror. They are
equally remarkable, for large and thick knees,
turned,outwards, with feet bent in an inward di­
reelion. Their ufual miferable fare agrees with the
roughed appearance.
Near Davis’s Streights, the Laplanders and their
neighbour« are of a fmaller fize ; a nut-brown com­
plexion, with ihort and thick limbs.
C 4 Thf
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 28
Digitized by Google
2 4 l a v a t e r 's
The favages of Hudfon’s Bay, and on the coaft of
Labrador, have their faces and bodies almoft en­
tirely covered with hair; the countenance flat and
wide, large eyes and flat nofes.
Superior to all thefe, the inhabitants of New
Holland improve their frightful uglinefs, by drawing
the two upper fore teeth. They have eye-lids half
fliut in, from the cuftom of ufing fuch a defence
againft the malignant bite of gnats.
Thick lips, broad and flat nofes, buihy hair, black
teeth, with diftorted countenances, are the features
which characterize the Pappus and inhabitants of
New Guinea. In our eftimation, the fair fex there
hardly deferves this appellation ; with coarfe looks
large bellies, flight limbs, and monftrous breads.
Whim, not reafon, feems to direCt their motions and
courfe oflife. Like brutes, they are lazy, cruel, igno­
rant, and untraCtable ;having no juft notions of right
and wrong, perfection and deformity. The fame
diforder that diftinguiihes their perfons, is a leading
feature of their moral character. In ftiort, they are
arrant thieves, who fet no bounds to the indulgence
of their moft vicious appetites. 1
Among the dwarfs and nobility of Calicut, there
is a fpecies of men whofe legs are as large as bodies
of the common fize ; but fome of them have only
one over-grown limb. Thefe thick-legged beings
are common in the ifland of Ceylon, where they
pride
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 2 5
pride themfelves upon fuch excellence as does not
diminiih their ftrength and a&ivity.
The Turks, Perfians, Moguls, Chinefe, and other
eaftern nations, would not have fuch ftrong claims
to beauty and fymmetry, were it not for a well-
known circumftance, that, tharing our conceptions
of what is moil pleating to the eye, the higher order
among them betrays a concern for embeUithing the
human race, by conllant marriages or connexions
with the fineft females, dearly-bought Greeks, Geor­
gians, Circaifians, &c. &c. Thus the mafs of po«
pulation has been purified by partial emigrations,
extended commerce, and confequent intercourfe be­
tween the various clafles of mankind.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
26 xavatee’s
ESSAY III;
On National >CuJlams, Drefies, and Ornaments,
which change, hurt, or disfigure the
Human Species. .
THE local difjtin&ions pointed out muft tie fa­
miliar to an hiftnrical painter; and «then we con-
fider that the‘bones form a column that entwines
-the human ftruftmfe, our minds will be fully im-
preffed with the importance of anatomy asconnefl-
ed with painting and phyfiology.
Hence appears the neceflity for a ftudent to be
converfant with the whole chirurgical fyftem, as it
refpefts the prevailing proportions in all parts of
the globe.
Partial fymmetry alone does not form beauty, for
perfeftion confifts of feveral juft, united proportions.
For ¡nftance, when the mufcles are ill matched,
they cannot contribute to graceful motion. Some­
thing inexprefiible is then miffed, from a want of
concert in moving the body; and this defe£l is per­
ceived when the conftitution becomes impaired by
iloth, negleft, or bad habits.
In regard to drefs, pomp, and ornaments, faihion
fbas frequently proved injurious.—Children are dif­
ferently
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 2 7
fefently fpoiled: in fome parts their nofes are broke
down, or ftretched out on the frdes, by heavy brafs
rings, while their ears are lengthened exceffively by
the like irritating operation. Nor are they lefs tor­
tured in a fortofprefs, ufed for fmoothing, poliihing,
or enlarging their heads, according to the caprices
of parents.
Thus, in China, * the principal charm lies in a
fmall foot. Mothers there take particular care to
Hop the growth of that ufeful limb. This Angu­
larity is accounted for by eminent writers who have
vifited that eaftern country.
We, however, need not travel fo far to look for
extraordinary or fantaftic modes, nor even among
the wildeft tribes, fince poliihed nations furniih fu£
ficient examples of the abufe of tafte and judgment
* It is fuppofed that the Chineie firft placed an extraordinary va­
lue on fmall feet from motives of jealoufy. Without thinking of bad
confequences, mothers began betimes to bind, fwaddle, and wrap up
their daughters in fuch a manner as prevented them from ftirring out
o f doors, or walking upright, without attendants. Hence proceeded
that unnatural form, which was foon rendered fo familiar, as to be­
come, in their eyes, the ilandard of beauty* In the fame way we find
the Venetian ladies doomed to a clofer retirement than what they
would probably fuffer, were it not for the inconvenience of large
pattens. Such ilrange fafhioris are not eafily left off; nor do
French manners gain ground m any country fo fait as thofe principles
of liberty which have never been entirely eradicated from the human
breaft. -
in
Digitized by Google
l a v a t e r ’s
in wearing apparel introduced into the highelt cir­
cles : for, is it not equally by binding, fqueezing, or
wringing their feet, that European ladies are ele­
gantly ihod, fo that their fupporters can fcarce keep
up the upper works of their pretty perfons ?
Nor can the fuperftrufture be folid, if the pillars
on which it ftands are feen to totter under the
weight of faihionable fuperfluities.
Hence proceeds the affecting fight of fo many
tiny living figures, which otherwife plight have
been fubftantially formed, in courts and cities.—
Even their gait, as well as their whole appearance,
betrays evident marks of thofe reftraints which they
have fuffered from the cradle, efpecially by the gilt
and brilliant ferrets which they difplay. It is, ne-
verthelefs, true, that, without fuch embelliihments,
they might not captivate weak, effeminate men, like
themfelves; but their perfonal attra&ions would
he fo much the more ftriking, were every natural
perfeftion feen undemoliihed by art.
When we reflect coolly upon fome of the ufual
diftortions, it mult be admitted, that a thinking
ftranger cannot fee, without pitying, a charming
girl who walks on tiptoe, and ftrives in vain to con­
ceal how much fhe fuffers in her nerves, fibres, and
tendons, from the preffure of bands, calculated to
preferve delicacy as preferable to health.
Confequently, in the ftate of pregnancy, fuch
feeble creatures are unable to keep the balance for
• taking
28
Digitized by Google
taking exercife fuited to their iituation. Thé fatal
effe£ts of this pining iicknefs are fufficiently known
to tender huibands and good fathers ; yet it is ac­
knowledged, that, in order to appear of the mid­
dling iize, women would have no need of high
heels, were not their growth interrupted, and their
knees disjointed, by thofe abufes to which falhion
has given a fanftion, to the prejudice of beauty.
Equally pernicious to infants are too tight Twad­
dling clothes, againft the laws of Nature, at a mo­
ment when, coming out of a prifon (the womb),
they fhould feel no (hackles ill fuited to their tender
age. .
Nothing afterwards impairs the conftitution (b
much as flays, or other trammels, which high ex­
amples have introduced among the middling clafles
of fociety. Nor need we feek farther to account
for thofe affeéted airs, timid looks, and carelefs
fteps, which diftinguifh the or poliflied manners,
of the higher ranks ; although, in fa£t, they proceed
from doth and indolence, acquired by fuch bad
habits as deftroy natural graces.
Will mankind, then, never agree in forming juft
conceptions of a beautiful figure ?
The ancient Greeks differed materially from the
moderns in their ideas on this important point.
Born under the fineft canopy of heaven, the in­
habitants of Greece formerly gave full fcope to Na­
ture, by uling fuch flight drefles, and continual exer-
cifes,
LOOKINfe-GLASS. Ô 9
Digitized by Google
l a v a t e r ’s
cifes, as promoted health, ftrength, and fymmetry.
Thus fculptors had their eyes familiarized with liv­
ing models of excellence, in that ftate of fimplicity,
from which they defigned inimitable ftatues.
But now-a-days we could not eafily find in the
higher order fimilar perfe£tions, in the fame degree
as amidft that laborious clafs, which ftill contributes
to embelliih the human frame by rural employ­
ments, races, and diverfions, ufed with moderation:
but for thefe, the plagues of luxury and effeminacy *
would make the human race degenerate more vi-
libly, or dwindle into ihadows.
On the other hand, exceflive, labour would have
a contrary effeft upon both fexes, and prove fatal to
the niceft fhapes and faireft complexions; as every
man may obferve, that female peafants Iofe the fine
tincture of afkin, with well-turned tender limbs, juft
as they gain additional vigour with robuft and ath­
letic fhapes. But, in the populous towns of Europe,
beauty, like a flower, requires our foftering care, to
prevent it from perifhing by a cruel blaft before it
be full blown.
3Q
ESSAY
Digitized by Goo<; .
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . SI
ESSAY IV.
Difcujjion of the Quejlion,— Whether Anatomical
Knowledge might be acquired without
Diflection? Remarks on the , Difcipline,
and furgical Principles of the ancient Greeks.
WHILE a fufficient degree of anatomical know­
ledge tends to afeertain juft proportions, it behoves
a painter and phyfiognomift to be well acquainted
with the tnufcles, as on them depend a variety of
forms and poftures. On this dccafion it becomes a
queftiondefervingourferious confideration, Whether
a courfe of fuch ftudies might be purfued equally
well with or without mangled bodies, difgufting to
refined feelings? '
Inftead ofdifplaying opeiily the mufcular mechan-
ifm upon alifelefs fubje£t, might not the fame ufeful
purpofe be anfwered, were we to fet up, as objects
of ftudy, thofe excellent ftatues which are fuppofed
to point out every diftinftion in a true light ? Be- .
tides, we have perfect figures in wax, on which
every thade of Nature’s colours is duly preferved.—
Or can we difpenfe with difle&ion, by fubftituting
' living
Digitized by Google
82 L A V A T E R ’9
living fubjefts, whofe attitudes, mien, and motions,
might ferve as imitable marks ?
However plaufible the obje£tions to anatomy
might appear, they would prove in Reafon’s eye to
be frivolous pretences, fuggefted by lazy ftudents,
adopted by men of middling abilities, and defpifed
by the mod celebrated profeffors; for, upon reflec­
tion, it mull be found, that, perfe£t as figures in
brafs, wax, or marble, may be in the likenefs of an
original, they do not difcover the Supreme Defign-
er’s inward machinery, in a manner fuited to all
thofe violent evolutions and forced fituations which
a living model could not bear. Or, even were it
otherwife, we could onlyjudge of effe&sapparently,
without tracing them to their real caufes, as we
can do upon bloodlefs bodies, with the inexpreffible
fatisfa&ion attending everygradual difcovery, which
enables us to account for the flightefl vifible varia­
tion in fuch parts as become obje£ls of contempla­
tion or imitation.
It is after having fludied in this manner, that a
pupil ought to attain a proficiency in drawing, be­
fore he fhould be permitted to ufe thofe fubftitutes
for fkeletons, which Art has fo numeroufly multi­
plied for his ufe i at the fame time he would retain
in his memory the principles of ofteology, retraced
by the fight of living creatures, whofe geitures
might be rendered a fubjeft of daily obfervation, to
prove
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 33
prove what he previouily knew in theory and from
demonftration.
With fuch a fund of information, the ftudent
would do well to improve himfelf by copying an­
cient datues, with hopes of imitating, in fome mea-
fure, theirbeauties; for, by thefe fundamental accom-
pliihments, he might clearly fee the way before
him in his profelfion, and be foon able not only to
delineate juftly all the mufcular motions, but alfo
to explain the caufe and main fprings of every gef-
ture in a maderly manner.
It remains for us to refute another obje&ion
which might be darted againd the abfolute necef-
fity of anatomy, from a confideration, that without
this fcience the Greeks produced mafter-pieces.
But if hiftorians do not dwell upon their ikill in it,
we are at liberty to entertain doubts about their
ignorance in that reipeft; efpecially as it was im-
poflible for them to fucceed fo well in every imita­
tion of Nature, unlefs they had poflefled fecrets
unknown to their pofterity.
In the mod remote times of antiquity, bodily
exercife was fo much the more common, as the
united drength of individuals compofed the power
of a nation. The fate of an empire then depended
on'the iifue of a tingle combat between one man
and another; jud as each could wield the fird arms
ufed in the field, before they had dared to imitate
the thunder of heaven, or invent eafier means o f'
D dedru&ion
Digitized by Google
3 4 l a v a t e r ’s
definition. Under fuch circumftances, it was the
policy of every inconfiderable date to train up and
harden the race of men, in order to form an in­
vincible barrier againft the mcroachments of a
powerful neighbour.
Several wife inftitutions contributed to that falu-
tary end in Greece, where every poflible difcipline
was moil perfe£t. Giants were reared to withftand
the torrent of invalions from Perfia. The Olympic
Games were mere trials of ik.Ul and dexterity,
preparatory to the famous battles of Marathon,
Thermopylae, and Salamine. The public feftivals
were recreations equally calculated to raife that
generous fpirit of emulation which is fo neceffary
to animate contending armies, and make men
devote themfelves to conquer or die.
Thus it was that, by continual a&ivity, a people
weak in numbers became a ftrong rampart, capable
of refitting the innumerable forces which poured in
upon them from Alia: nor could the Greeks have
maintained their independence with fo much honour
and glory, had it not been for that education and
mode of living which promoted elaftic agility and gi­
gantic force in their civic tournaments and military
exploits, where national pride and perfonal bravery
were excited by the higheft allurements.—Indeed,
it is impoffible for us to conceive an adequate idea
of'the Racer, the Charioteer, and the Wreftler,
contending for vi&ory in the high-day of blood.
Happy
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS, 35
Happy then was the painter or fculptor, who faw
the beft models of champions and warriors dripped
of fuperfluous fineries, and prefenting, in every
anxious attitude, fubje£ts of lectures on the human
conftitution.
Another opportunity to cultivate the fine arts
was derived from a variety of laudable diverfions,
fitted to youth of both fexes, who, in the date of
innocence, prefented their natural graces, which
excited the dronged emotions, without railing a
bluih at Lacedæmon.
If, therefore, fome profeffional gentlemen would
exclude anatomy from a jud rank in the fcale of
fciences, it mud be granted, that they might pro­
cure a compenfation for the deficiency, were it
in their power to edablifh fuch popular Aflemblies
or Mufeums as the Grecians had, for experiments
on the fydem of Nature, which they mud have
dudied with the greated advantage, as they have
tranfmitted to us the mod driking proofs of their fu-
perior workmanihip. Finally, we conclude that
they could not have attained that degree of emi­
nence without fome anatomical principles, though
perhaps differing from our refined fydems.
D 2 ESSAY
Digitized by Google
36 l a v a t e r ’s
ESSAY V.
On Grace and Beauty.
THE impreffions made by Beauty and by Virtue
are alike: we acquire the fame confcious fenfe of
bodily perfeftion and moral reftitude in both cafes,
where our feelings aft in concert with our judgment
in forming an eftimate of their relative value. Our
juft conception of true excellence is proved by the
immediate delight that it affords in gladdening the
heart, while, on the other hand, extraordinary de­
formity raifes the involuntary fmile of derifion,
.when it is not reftrained by pity, refpeft, or re-
fleftion.
Infanity, or other defefts of the mind, do not
ihock us more than fmgular features;—tooprominent
a nofe, ill-matched eyes, a figure like Don Quix-
' ote’s, crooked limbs, and projecting fhoulders: fuch
a fight creates either compaflioa, flight, or indif­
ference.
The beauties of the foul and body bear likewife
a refemblance in their changes, being affefted by
the fame caufes.
Violent paflions, anger, jealoufy, hatred, envy,
convulfe tha body, and difturb the mind; disfigur­
ing
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 3 7
ing the countenance, and at the fame time injur­
ing the health.
Plato confidered in the firft rank of Nature’s
bleflings, a fuperior underftanding; and, in his efti-
mation, beauty had the fecond place j for he pre­
ferred it to all the gifts of fortune, birth, and power.
—“ If,” fays he, “ Youth and Beauty had Pru­
dence on their fide, they would be (till greater ob-
jeXs of adoration.”
The Greeks ereXed temples to , whom
they worihipped under different names.
In their language there is but one word, ,
to fignify the World, Beauty, and Symmetry. It is
to their high idea of perfeXion that we muft attri­
bute the fuperiority of every work that is come to
us from their hands; no lefs vifible in their poetry,
than in the monuments of arts which have efcaped
the ravages of time, wars, and revolutions.
The inference to be drawn from thefe reflexions
is this,—that the beft moral writers, the moft ce­
lebrated poets, and the moft perfeX architeXs, were
cotempofary with thofe fculptors and painters, who
likewife flood the foremoft in repute in their pro-
feffions. Thus Homer, Pythagoras, Socrates, Plato,
Efchylus, Demofthenes, Sophocles, and Euripides,
were the friends and rivals in fame of Phidias,
Apollodorus, Agathias, Agefander, Parrhafius, Pro­
togenes, Zeuxis, and Apelles. In order to render
wifdom amiable, that ingenious people deified this
D 3 attribute
/
Digitized by Google
38 l a v a t e r ’s
attribute as peculiar to Minerva, the daughter of
Jupiter, one of the molt beautiful and powerful
Goddefles, who partly owed her influence to per-
fonal charms.
Indeed, without ftudying the animal lyftem, all
attempts to make a confiderable progrefs in the fine
arts would prove ineffe£tual, for the fuperior excel­
lence of a figure or ftatue lies in the perfect union
of grace and beauty. Such perfe£tion may be faid
to conlift of the molt regular human forms, rela­
tive to the refpeitive motions of all parts; and,
in addition to this Itriking fymmetry, the graces
which fet it off are better felt than defcribed by
every man of talle who is impreffed with fome-
thing inexpreffible, ariling from a clofe connexion
between the movements of the body, and thofe
agitations of the mind which he cannot fupprefs,
while he views the molt exa£t proportion of every
part completely united in the harmony of a whole
pleafing object of love or admiration.
>
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 3»
ESSAY VI.
Upon ExpreJJion,or Character, in Painting, Sic
REGULAR proportions, fymmetry, and ele
gance, are not the only requifites to form a per­
fect figure.
Without a juft leading feature, that characterizes
the fubjeCt reprefented on ftone or canvas, neither
the fineft colours of a painting, nor the perfeCt har­
mony of a ftatue, will meet with the approbation
of real judges.
Expreftion, then, is the foul of both; the lively
and ftriking image of animated affeCtions, that
breaks out, betraying every inward emotion, in
ftrong characters, ftamped upon the countenance,
and communicated by that fwell and relaxation ot
the mufcles by which the fecrets of the heart
tranfpire, more or lefs, according to the lineaments,
and degree of conftitutional vigour.
Even the reviewers of paintings ihould be forced
to (hare the impreflions fo reprefented in a mafter-
piece, after a magical invention that few profeifors
communicate cheerfully to their pupils.
It is, therefore, indifpenfable for the artift to ftndy
man in a moral point of view; to fift into the irimoft
D 4 recefles
Digitized by Google
4 0 l a v a t e r ’s
recedes of his bread, in order to fee the paffions,
and give life to his reprefentation, without miffing
a fingle ihade that chara£terizes the original, juft as
much as he is diftinguiihed by the features of his
face.
His progrefs in this branch of the imitative arts
will be favoured by a fruitful imagination, ikill in
drawing, with ajuft diftribution and force ofcolour­
ing. Thus he will obtain the lively fpark that Pro­
metheus ftole from Heaven, to animate brittle clay,
the boafted work of his hands. It is, then, by the
particular excellence of affe£ting and fpeaking
figures, that Painting holds a rank among the
fciences as the Sifter of Mufic and Poetry.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S « 4 1
ESSAY VII.
On the PaJJions.
Se c tio n I.
• _ t
LET us caft a glance at the origin and divifion
of the Paffions, before we confider their different
outward ligns.
No ftudy would be more interefting to man
than to analyfe himfelf in a moral fenfe, were it
poffible for him to do fo. The mod enlightened
philofophers have differed upon this point: fome of
them maintain the prevailing opinion, that this think­
ing creature is born good, without thofe fatal paf­
fions of which he becomes the fport, as they ori­
ginate entirely from education, example, and cir-
qumftances. According to this fyftem, he brings
with him into the world the precious feeds of
virtue and juftice, which are deftroyed in the
bud by bad habits and difficulties of life; fo that
vice grows up in their place.
Befides other advocates, the celebrated Rouffeau
employed his perfuafive language in defence of
thefe principles. Oppofite fentiments, lefs flatter­
ing to human nature, have been fupported with
equal zeal, but more fpleen than good fenfe, tend­
ing
Digitized by Google
4 2 L A V A T E H ' s
ing to propagate the Ihocking idea,—that all men
are born wicked and cruel; fo that force alone being
the rule of power which made the firft law, they
partake equally of a longing defire to poffefs the
fame objects, and confequently are in a ltate of
warfare from their infancy to the grave.
Hence arifes the perpetual conteft that fpreads
fuch havock and defolation upon the earth.
Another modern philofopher, Helvetius, after
having confuted thefe doCtrines with folid argu­
ments, has endeavoured to hit the right medium
between two different fyftems, without indulging
the fpirit of contradiction. He maintains, that a
child comes upon the ftage of life neither good nor
bad, but becomes either according to events From
the moment when He breaks out of his mother’s
womb he opens the gates of creation, and enters
without thofe ideas and paflions, the mere effeCts,
or impreffions, of his exiitence.
Agreeably to this way of arguing, felf-Iove, the .
ftrongeft leading principle, confidered as innate, is
only a main-fpring of aCtion, acquired from expe­
rience and recollection of pain or pleafure, from
the earlieft period, added to the fruits of reflection
at a riper age, when we come to contemplate and
weigh the whole order of things in the fcale of
Reafon.
Se c t io n
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 43
Se c t io n II.
On theDivifion of the PaJJions.
P h ilosoph ers, have difplayed no lefs ingenuity
in arranging the. order of the Paflions, than in
tracing their caufes, by dividing the whole into two
clafles, the iimple and the compofite.
In the firll clafs they reckon Admiration, Love*
Hatred, Grief, &c.; in the fecond, Reverential Awe,
Fear, Courage, Hope, Defpair, Longing, Rage, &c.
Such is the arrangement approved of by the ce­
lebrated Le Brun ; but, with all due refpeft for the
memory of fo eminent an artift, we are inclined to
contradift it, as founded, in fome inftances, on fancy
or conje£ture: for why is hatred more iimple than
rage; or how does hope or defpair appear to be
more a compound than joy or forrow ?
Dandre Bardon makes four diviiions of Quiet, -
Agreeable, Painful, Terrible, or violent paflionsj
which ftrikes us as a more juft and natural way of
drawing the* line of diftin&ion. On this occaiion
a doubt might be fuggefted refpe&ing the propriety
of adding to that lift fome of the other gales which
ruffle the human mind,—fuch as Sufpenfe, Timidity,
Contempt, and Deriiion.
. It
Digitized by Google
4 4 x a v a t e r ’s
It was probably the difficulty of afcertaining thefe
various agitations, that induced Watelet to adopt
another method, in the judicious obfervations fol­
lowing his Poem on the Art of Painting.
He divides the Paffions into fix different branches,
of which each has feveral diftinguiihing (hades. For
inftance, Melancholy is the confequence either of
misfortunes or of companion; but it has various
gradations by which it is particularly marked and
pointed out to difcerning eyes. Every (hade of
difference bears fomething peculiar to it, fuch as—
Anxiety, uneafinefs, regret;
Vexation, peevifhnefs, languor;
Deje&ion, reiignation, oppreifion, See.
Joy, the fecond principal' paffion, has feveral
degrees:—
Satisfaction, fmiles, and laughter, occaiioned by mirth;
W ith demonftrations in geftures, iinging, and dancing;
Convullive fits of laughing;
High glee, tears, embraces;
Mad pranks and raptures, refembling the ilate of intoxica-
Grief, produced by bodily pain, ha^ alfo its pro­
portioned variations, according to the degree of
tion.
Senfibility, pricking, griping;
Torments, pangs of death, and defpair.
Sloth,
. }ogle
Digitized by
45
L O O K I N G - G L A S S .
Sloth, or indolence of body and mind, produces
the following fituations
Sufpenfe, or irrefolulion, timidity;
Oppreffion of the fpirits, diftruft, or appreheniion*;
Fear, flight, fright, terror;-------and, ,
Ghaftlinefe.
Impreflions of an oppofite nature proceed from
Strength, courage, fteadinefs, refolution;
Affurance, intrepidity, and audacity.
The Lofs of any thing dear to us, Contradi&ion,
or Difappointment, generally excite envy, jealoufy,
and averfion, in the following gradations, viz.—
Indifference about a perfon that has given offence;
Diflike, irritation;
Threats, difdain, rcontempt, raillery; .
Antipathy, fpite, infult;
Anger, rage, vengeance, and fury.
Such is the divifion of Paffions arranged by that
eminent writer, according to their ,natural order
and in fuch a manner as to form a fcale of the
different emotions to which our minds are fubjea
But in what clafs mult we place the paffion-by
turns foft and violent-Love, whofe temptations
are fo pleafing, and whofe tranfports are fo fatal.
The fame intelligent Poet fays, that this affeaion
fhould be reprefented, by mingl.ng the traits of
timidity, embarraffment, agitation, languor, admi­
; ration,
Digitized by Google
4 6 x a v a t e r ’s
ration, longing defire; a panting bread, with eyes
alternately fparkling, and rolling in tears j the fair­
eft incarnation, blooming features, exprefling im­
patience, with a flutter like the quaking fit of an
ague, followed by fighs, anxiety, and raptures.
Our next delightful talk is to confider the cha-
ra&ers in which all thefe fenfations are damped
upon the countenance, fo that every motion of the
foul tranfpires by the a£tion of the nerves, fibres,
and mufcles j which it would be impoflible for an
artift to reprefent properly, unlefs he was well ac­
q lainted with the interior machinery of the human
figure, hereafter explained. This demonftration
muft carry convi£tion with refpefit to the advan­
tages that the fine imitative arts derive from ana­
tomy.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 4*
ESSAY VIII,
On M
a
.
OF all living creatures, Man is the moil perfe£tly
framed by Nature in every refpeft.
He comes into the world ftraight, without de-
fenfive arms, fpotted with little hair or down, and
gradually grows to five or fix feet in height.
His head is nearly of an oval form, with'the
crown flattiih, or tapering, and covered with long
locks. The fore part is of the fame ihape, and the
hind part circular.
His face is bare; his forehead is almoft even,
fquare, levelled at the temple, and interlined with
the hair in two right angles.
His eye-brows are prominent, nicely feamed
in towards the temples, and feparated by an inter­
mediate blank fpace.
His upper eye-lid is in motion, and the under
one fixed, each having lathes rather crooked and
jutting out. ..
The eyes are round, and kept in their focket,
without being fattened by a particular mufcla.
The eye-ball is round, without a twinkling mem­
brane to preferve it.
The
Digitized by Google
48 l a v a t e r ’s
The cheeks are equally convex or roundiih, foft
and fireih-colouredj the jaws doping, and loofer
above than below.
A riling nofe, ihorter than the lips, higher and
rounder at the bottom 5oval noftrils, hairy within,
and thick edges, form an effential part of the lead­
ing features.
The upper lip is almoft perpendicular, with a
hollow, the lower one almoft ftraight as a line, or
curving gradually; the chin picked, plump, and
roundiih. '
The male fex has the mouth bearded, with
long flowing hair, particularly at the chin.
The teeth are grafted on the jaw j the fore-teeth
run clofe in a row, more equal, evener and rounder,
than in other animals: the eye-teeth are placed
afunder, longer than the others, ihorter than thofe
of brutes, and on a level with five grinders on each
fide, flattiih, but not with fuch deep-rooted prongs
as in the brute creation.
Bare, round, and lateral ears encircle the head
like a half-moon, with the upper brim hollow, and
foft at bottom.
The bull confifts of the head, neck, breaft, back,
and belly. The trunk is headlefs, formed by thofe
other parts.
The neck is almoft round, with the nape lightly
turning; the throat hollow at top, and convex in
the
Digitized by Google
the middle. The chine-bones are not joined by
any ligament.
The bread is, in Come degree, fmoothed, particu­
larly the upper part; the wind-pipe hollowed, ribs
curving, and hairy ; pit of the ftomach fmoothiih,
two paps at the breads, like globes, with nipples of
a cylindrical form, flattifh, wrinkled, and enclofed
in a circle. *
■ .
-The bottom of the back is almod even ; and be­
tween the ihoulders there is a flat fpace.
The belly is hollow and loofe, with an open
navel; the epigadrium is even, the hypogadrium
globular ; the ribs even and hollow, th.e waid hairy,
the tunnel of the body is wide at top, and narrower
below. The difference of fexes is confident with
their refpe&ive characters for aflurance and mo­
dedy.
The arms are thick, round, and as long as the
legs. The elbow is flat, but a little picked.
The palm of the hand is hollow within, while
the fid rifes and fpreads itfelf like a globe;
with five fingers, and a thumb feparated from
them, (barter and broader. The fecond, third,
fourth, and fifth fingers are clofe to each other;
the fifth is the lead; the fecond, fourth, and -
particularly the third, or middle finger, being a
little longer, and reaching down to the middle
of the thighs. The nails are almod of an oval
E fhape,
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . . 49
Digitized by Google
fhape, and with a fmooth furface, furmounted by a
whitiih crefcent.
The legs and limbs run up ftraight, as ftrong fup-
porters of the human frame.
The thick parts of the thighs are round and
plump. The knees are turned within-fide, and
very flat, with the joints or pans hollow below.
The legs are of the fame length as the thighs,
more flender at the ihins, thin at the fore part,
with thick mufcular calves, plumper behind than
forward.
The heels are oblong, broader than in other
animals, jutting out with hard ancles on each fide,
of a femicircular form. The foies of the feet are
likewife oblong, rdund in the fore-part, even be­
hind, and hollow croflwife. with a clofe row of
five curved toes, roundifh below ; the firft, largeft
and fhorteft; the fecond and third almoft alike; the
fourth and fifth diminiihing regularly ; and nails as
on the fingers.
Man differs from brutes in his upright and fmooth
body, with a covered head, eye-brows, lafhes, and
fome hair on other parts at the age of puberty.
He is likewife diftinguifhed by his breafts, a larger
brain than any other creature; his palate and tra-
chean artery; his face even with other parts; the
nofe prominent, his chin picked, and legs fupported
by heels. Nor does he feel himfelf lefs favoured
in
50 l a v a t e r ’s >
Digitized by Google
In whatever tends to the comfort of a mhrried
life, and the population of the world, being the
only.living creature that has received the greateft
gift of heaven—the power of fpeech, the means
of communicating his ideas, apd providing for his
wants in a civilized ftate. '
Lo o k in g -Glass. 51
E 2 ESSAY
Digitized by Google
$ 2 l a v a t e b ’s
ESSAY IX.
On theVarieties of the Human Species.
THERE are not two kinds, but feveral diftin£t
families of mankind. Kant reckons four human
races; the Northern European, the American, the
Negro, and the Tawny Indian who inhabits the
banks of the Ganges.
Erxleben admits fix different fpecies of men j—
the Northern Dwarfs, or Laplanders; the Afiatic
Tartars, living from Mount Imaus to the borders of
Lapland; other inhabitants of Alia, beyond the
Ganges ; Europeans, Africans, and Mexicans.
The Northern Dwarf, or Laplander, is of a di­
minutive ftature, and his leading features corre-
fpond with his brutal ftate and habits of life.
His vifage is flat, broad above, contrafted, and
lengthened in the lower part, with a flat nofe
preffed down; fmall eyes, with a femicircle of
yellow brown and blackilh colour about the fight.
His eye-lids are lengthened toward the temples,
the cheeks exceifively high, the mouth very large,
thick lips, a thrill fqueaking voice, a monftrous
head, ileek and black hair, tawny complexion, his
body thick, fhort, and fquat, for he is feldom above
•four feet high.
' The
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 53
The Tartar is well fet, with thick thighs and
Ihort legs: his countenance is flat, and five or fix
inches broad from ear to ear; his eyes are very
fmall, and his nofe is fuch a fnout as exhibits two
holes inftead of noftrils: his knees are turned out­
wards, and his feet inwards.
The Afiatic is of a yellowiih complexion, with
black hair, and dark eyes: he is of a melancholy
turn.
The European is fair, freih-coloured, with light,
long, and curly hair, and generally blue eyes.
The African is black and heavy; his fibres are
loofe, his ikin foft as velvet, his hair black and
crifpy, the nofe flat, with thick lips; and the fe­
male that becomes a mother has a very long
breaft.
The Mexican has a broad countenance, a very
finall forehead, covered with hair up to the eye­
brows, and fmall black eyes.
Camper has publiihed obfervations upon the
ikulls and faces of different nations, by which it
appears that the lines of the countenance run more
awry in Blackamoors than in Europeans.
Blumenbac's Treatife on the fame fubjeft like-
wife contains curious remarks.
Much has been faid about Wild Men, found at
different times in the forefts of Europe j but they
were almoft all born deaf and dumb ; abandoned
E 3 by
Digitized by Google
54 LAVATER/S
by their parents on that account, or artful impof-
tors.
A real Savage, as Buflfbn lays, would be an
objeCt of curiofity to a philofophic eye able to
trace all the inftinCts of pure Nature, obferve the
human mind without difguife, and form a juft
eftimate of the ftfongeft innate cravings implanted
in his bread, where we Ihould probably find more
peace and comfort, with a larger portion of virtue,
than by fearching the bofom of a civilized man:
confequently the refult would be, that vice pro-
• ceeds from evil communication in fociety.
Bernard Connor, in his Medici, has
given us the hiftory of a child bred with wolves.
Martiniere, in his Geographical Dictionary, men-
Cbns a wild youth found in the foreft of Hanover.
But in order to form a juft idea of our natural
powers, undirected by the light derived from a
polilhed education, let it fuffice for us to ftate fome
of the particulars that the younger Racine has
tranfmitted concerning a Savage Girl, who Was
difcovered near C
h
a
l
o
n
s,in the year 1731.
It was at the Caftle of Sogni/, that fome fervants,
having perceived at night what was taken for a
fpeCtre upon an apple-tree, they drew near quietly,
with an intention of furrounding it j but the ob­
jeCt of their attention fuddenly jumped over the
walls of the garden, and efcaped into an adjoining
grove.
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 5 5
grove, where Ihe perched upon the trees, rambling
from one to another.
The Lord of the Manor in vain employed his
vaflals in the chace of that poor female. Afc lad,
his lady hit upon an expedient that was attended
withfuccefs:—a pail of water and an eel were
the baits ufed to tempt the Savage Girl to come
down, as ihe did, to fatisfy the dronged calls of
hunger and third, like the wild brute. •
Accordingly, being ealily taken, ihe was well
treated ; nor did her palate require the refinements
of modem cookery. .
The nails of her fingers and toes were found
to have grown to the length of fuch claws, as
«enabled her to climb with eafe in the woods.
At fird, ihe appeared black; but the change
in her way of life foon redored her fair com­
plexion.
Knowing no language, ihe could not pronounce
any other but frightful cries, or the imitations of
thofe birds and beads with whom ihe had been
converfant.
Afterwards, having learnt to fpeak, ihe gave an
account of her former habits and adventures.
The cold weather had compelled her to wear
the ikin of fome animal indifpenfably; but, in
every feafon of the year, ihe ufed a girdle, to which
ihe fadened a kind of round and ihort club, for
, E 4 killing
Digitized by Google
l a v a t e r ’s
killing wolves and other creatures. When, with
this weapon, (he had killed a hare with one ftroke,
her cuftom was to flay, and devour her prey $ or,
after «over-running this fwift game, ihe ufed to open
the veins with her nails, drink up the blood, and
throwaway the reft.
Her quickeft pace was a fort of flight, per­
formed by Aiding along imperceptibly, in fuch a
manner, that her body and feet hardly feemed to
move.
She poflefled no lefs addrefs and agility upon
another element,—the water, where ihe dived
with all imaginable eafe, and chofe her favourite
food. .
Neither her age nor her native country was ever
afcertained. Being interrogated upon one of thefe
points, by iigns, (he pointed at a tree, without
doubt becaufe ihe had lived in forefts, and never
feen any other dwelling.
With a view of difcovering the place of her birth,
La Condamine ihewed to her the roots of feveral
American plants, in hopes that ihe would recognize
what ihe might have feen in her infancy; but this
experiment proved ufelefs.
She related with feniibility, the lofs of her com­
panion, of the fame age and fex.
While both were fwimming in the river (the
Marne, as we fuppofe), they heard a report, that
. forced
56
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 57
Forced them to plunge; for a fportfman had fired
upon them, inftead of (hooting water-fowls. Upon
finiihing their fiihiqg party, they (trolled a good
way further j and at the entrance of a wood, they
found a pair of beads, which produced a quarrel,
as both wanted to make a bracelet.
In the conteft for this bauble, (he was provoked,
by a ftroke upon her arm, to return it with fuch a
violent blow upon the head of her antagonift, as
made it bleed. Then, inftantly, from a motion that
natural in(lin£t fuggefted, (he climbed upon an oak,
and found a gum for the cure of fuch a wound,
according to her innate knowledge; but, returning
to the fpot where they had feparated, (he miffed,
and lot} for ever, the partner of her cares.*
* A s Grecian Statues require a veil iuited to Britiih modefty,
fo a few of Mr. Sue’s ideas may be rather improper without a
flight gauze, whether the attempt be made in profe or poetry to
convey defcriptions.
The prefent manners, on both fides, require equal delicacy.
Thus, in cafe any fair readers, mothers, or midwives, fliould take up
thefe EfT.iys, let us pay a compliment to their fex, as a compenfation
offered for having fupprefled any fuch part, as was originally de­
igned for profeffional characters.
O N M O D E ST K ISSES.
Is Frederick’s glory worth a moment’s blifs;
Or Newland’s treafure equal to a—kifs ?
.................. N o ;
Digitized by Google
l a v a t e r ’s
N o ; let us die before our pleafures cloy;
W hile we look up to heaven for purer joy
Than what proceeds from moving fcenes of life,
And living pi&ures of a tender wife.
At lad, fmce Angels, pure in mind, embrace,
L et lovers bulk with modefty and grace !
May Beauty’s fmiles reward the wife and brave,
Till female lips with their’s ihall (hare one grave.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 59
ESSAY X.
On theDifferences of Stature.
ACCORDING to BufFon's eftimate, the middle
fize does not exceed five feet four inches, French
meafure; and he confiderg men as tall, from that
height to five feet nine.
Women are generally ihorter by two or three
inches; and they attain their full growth fo much
the fooner.
Haller makes five feet five to fix inches the
ftandard for the human figure in temperate cli­
mates, where the conftitution is not impaired by
a too fedentary life, or a bad habit of body.
He likewife obferves, that in , the
inhabitants of vallies are taller than mountaineers.
Some of the former are above fix feet high. Are
they to be confidered as giants; or where is the
line to be drawn for fo calling them and others of
equal ftature ?
A Finlander was exhibited as fuch at Paris in
the year 1735. He was above fix feet eight
inches. *
A Life-guard in the duke of Brunjioick's fer-
vice, and Macreath who was lhewn in London ifi
1760, were both above feven feet high.
A Swe-
Digitized by Google
6 0 l a v a t e r ’s
A Swedifli peafant, Caianus; a Finlander, Gilly,
of T
r
e
n
te
; and the king of PruJJia's life-guard,
nieafured more than eight feet.
Goliath muft have been nine feet four inches in
height, if we calculate it right from holy fcripture.
Notwithftanding fuch authentic accounts as have
been publilhed about the , and much
As they may comparatively overlook other people,
we,cannot fupprefs our doubts refpefiing their mid­
dling height j nor ought it to be deemed gigantic in
every individual; for if, as in other countries, a
few of them have exceeded their national ftandard,
as we may call it, of fix to thirteen feet, others
might have been feen proportionably lower, or
about that fmalleft fize, on a general run.
Other fuppofitions have been formed upon the
appearance of extraordinary bones dug up; which
were either the fad remains of brutes, or puffed up
by difeafe, if they had really formed a part of a hu­
man ikeleton.
There is, in the Mufeum of Natural Hiftory at
Paris, a broken bone, 2 ft. 4^ in. long, which had
been confidered as having been part of a giant’s
body, until Daubenton proved it to have belonged
to another animal.
The Roman Hiftory mentions a famous giant
Teutobachus, whofe bones were faid to have been
difcovered near Langon, in the beginning of laft
century: they were exhibited as fuch in France,
Flanders,
Digitized by Google
L O O K J N O - C I - ASS.
Flanders, and England. A celebrated furgeon,
Habicot, fupported that opinion, which was op»
pofed by Dr. Riolan, and is fince exploded by Daw-
benton and other eminent men.
On one fide of the queftion it was afferted, that,
upon opening the giant’s tomb, a human ikeleton
was found, twenty-five feet and a half high, ten
feet broad at the ihoulders, and five feet round, with
a head five feet long, and ten feet in circumference.
The objections to fuch aflertions are obvious to a
profeffional character.
A ikeleton five feet high, is only thirteen inches
broad, and feven and a half inches round. Confe-
quently another of five-and-twenty feet would mea-
fure only about three feet at the ribs, and five feet
three inches at the flioulder-blade; where ten feet
would be the juft proportion to the immenfe height
of fifty feet, in fuch a living creature as we ibould
imagine to have exifted. Upon that fcale, five feet
in compafs would'be proportioned to thirty-eight
feet in height.
The human fkull is. generally eight inches long,
and one foot feven.or eight inches round. A head
five feet long, and ten feet rotind, could have fuited
only an animal thirty-five feet high.
The other parts were equally ill-matched to.juftir
fy fuch a falfe idea as had been too lightly con­
ceived. ■ .
. « 1
The
Digitized by Google
6 4 L a V A T E R ’ s
palace of Stanijlaus, king of , at Luneville,
where he had fpent thé greateft part of his life.
This dwarf was born at Plaifne, of hard-working
well-fet parents, who faid that he came into the
world fcarcely weighing a pound and a quarter. He
was chriftened on a plate, and had a wooden-
ihoe forhis cradle. A goat was his wet-nurfe; be-
caufe, although his mouth was in juft proportion to
the reft of his body, it was too fmall to grafp his
mother’s breaft. He had compleated his fécond
year before he could walk in (hoes an inch and a
half long. He was about fifteen inches high at fix
years of agej weighed thirteen pounds, feemed
hearty, well made, and comely}but his underftand-
ing did not pafs the bounds of inftinft.
At fifteen, his height was two feet five inches.
While he grew afterwards, during four years, ac­
cording as he approached manhood, by the ftrong
efforts of Nature to compleat him for the purpofe
of fulfilling the firft commandment, his faculties
were over-ftrained. Hence proceeded a gradual
decay—the fymptoms of old age appeared—the
back-bone gave way—his head bowed down—the
feet grew weaker—his (houlder-blade jutted out—
and his nofe lengthened confiderably.
Thus poor Bébé fickened, loft his fpirits, and ex­
pired in bis twenty-third year.
In 1751 there was another dwarf, at Briftol, fif­
teen years old, two feet and a half high, bearing
the
Digitized by Google
t O O l C l N G - G t ASS. 65
the iftarks of old age, and weighing only thirteen
pounds, having fallen away fix pounds fince his
feventh year.
At the fame time the Norfolk Dwarf made his
public appearance, two feet five inches high, and
twenty-feven pounds and a half in weight; while at
Amjlcrdam a Frifelander was ihewn of the fame
fize twenty-fix years old.
A Polifh gentleman, two feet four inches high,
appeared at Paris in 1760; two and twenty years
old; lively, well ihaped, and converfant with feye-
ral languages: he had an elder brother two feet
ten inches high.
Cardanand Muralt mention another of two feet.
The fmalleft kind feen was of 2 1 , 18, and even 16
' inches. But thefe diminutive creatures, difperfed
in different countries, do not form a peculiar race
of men, but Untimely and degenerated produ&ions
of the human fpecies.
On the other hand, and in the oppofite extreme,
giants have over-leaped the limits of common
growth, from extraordinary powers or caprices of
nature.
Laplanders are the ihorteft known nation; of
four to four feet and a half.
The Patagonians are the tailed, fince they fiand
at fix to thirteen feet, according to the voyages of
difcoverers; but, as we have r.lready faid, thefe
matters require further elucidations.
F Secti on
Digitized by Google
6 6 l a v a t e r 's
Se c t io n III.
On theDifference of Complexion.
T he colour of different people varies from white
to black. Between thefe two oppofite colours
there are many ihades, containing a mixture of li­
vid, or blueiih, red, and yellow. Thefe varieties
are reduced tafour principal tinQures, white, yel-
lowiih, tawny, and black.
White People. .
# v
T he Szoedes, D
a
n
e
s
, and other northern Euro­
peans, are,white, except the Laplanders, the Sa-
moyedes, and the inhabitants of Petzora, a pro­
vince divided by a river of the fame ñame running
from fouth to north.
This complexion diftinguifhes the ,
French, Germans, Poles, and others living down
to the 42d degree of northern latitude. According
as we advance in fouthern climates, the tawny teint
gradually increafes. .
The Greeks, Neapolitans, Corjicans, Sardinians,
and'Spaniards, or thofe who inhabit the fouth of
Spain, are confequently more tawny than their
neighbours. *
AJia
Digitized by Google
LOOK ING-GL ASS. 67
AJiais the part of the world that contains the
greateft number of whites, in proportion to its popu­
lation.
From the 65th .degree of northern latitude,
among the Tartars, we find the Kabarandijkis with
freih and reddiih complexions. The
who live on the coaft of the Cafpian Sea, the
J i a n s , N
d
to
lia
n
s
, Armenians, Georgians, Mingreli-
ans, and the inhabitants of the northern provinces of
the Grand Mogul,are generally fair; and fo are the
Chinefe, in the inland parts of their extenfive empire.
The fame colour prevails in the AJiatic iflands;
particularly Ceylon, where we may find the faireft
race of favages.
There is likewife a vein of the famte blood to
be perceived among the Pi
n New
but in Africa it is moft vifible in the mountainous
parts of Barbary, in the kingdom of Morocco, to­
wards Mount' A
t
l
a
s
,a
nd along the Mediterranean
coaft, as well as in other inland countries ; for, ac­
cording to Bruce's a
ccount, the blacks are moftabun­
dant in fuch provinces as border upon the Ocean.
As in America there is a kind of white Laplanders,
fo in Lapland we find a fixture of white -
ers*
We
* By the fettlement of Europeans in America, and the mixture of
all colours in the Creoles and their defendants, the former prevail-
F a ing
Digitized by Google
68 l a v a t e r ’s
We muft take particular notice of a cream-co­
loured and inconfiderable fet of people mingled
with the original natives of the Ifthmus of Panama.
But we have not been able to afcertain whether
they form a peculiar race to be diftinguiihed from
all others, or are defcended from yellowiih anceftors,
like the other Americans; or whether the com­
plexion of the living generation be the effe£t
of a cafual temporary circumftance, or caprice of
Nature, rather than the repeated proof of primitive
and permanent caufe.
Yellowijh People.
W e unite under one head two iliades of colour,
a mixture of yellowiih with a reddiih likenefs of
copper; and the other is a lighter yellow, bordering
more upon brafs. Thefe two colours are always
more or lefs mingled with the dark tawny, or
fwarthy tin£lure of the (kin.
The red copper-colour is the moil predominant
in the greateft part of America, even among the
Indians who inhabit the fouthern provinces of that
ing complexion has infenfibly changed ; but what we have chiefly in
view, and the moil intereiling point, is, to afcertain the various
(hades of difference incident to the natives of feveral countries, ac­
cording as this gradation is effedled comparatively by the change of
climates.
continent;
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S *
continent; fuch as the natives of Guiana, and
others, who live on the banks of the river' of the
Amazons.
The Brazilians are darker.
The Ifthmus of Panama, and the coaft of Peru,
contain the ihade that is formed between red, cop­
per, and yellow; for there the orange teint breaks
out, while,the yellow has a call of red, or is equal­
ly mingled.
Between the Gulph of Mexico and the eaftern
coaft of Africa, towards the mouth of the river
Senegal, are the Iflands of Cape-verd, where we
find favages called copper-coloured negroes, that
are of the fame complexion as prevails in Bengal,
and in other parts of AJia. The Iflanders of Nico­
bar are tawny and yellowiih. In the Philippine
iflands there is an olive caft vifible; and that yellow
teint whitens or darkens gradually, according as
the AJiatics are more or lefs expofed to the burning
heat of the fun.
69
Swarthy People.
. T he nut-brown colour is feen in all, even the
coldeft, countries; for it follows the greateft part of
thofe ihades which are diftinguHhed between frefh
and ruddy complexions in temperate climates,
and that black hue which prevails in warmer re­
gions.
F 3 As
Digitized by Google
70 l a v a t e r 's
As the two extremes touch, we need not be fwv
prized to hear of exceptions from the general rule
formed by the degree of latitude.
We call olive and dark, thofe teints of a fwarthy
complexion, of which the •firft borders on livid
deep green, and the fecond is blackiih like fmoke.
It is, however, difficult to find language to ex-
prefs properly thofe various nice diftin&ions,
which even art can retrace but imperfectly to dis­
cerning eyes. '
If .we begin at the frozen points of , the
Greenlanders will be found fwarthy, or dark,
Like them are their American neighbours, the
EJIdjpaux, and other favages, from Canada to the
M i J J i J f i p p i ;and even the Mexicans, with flight
ihades of difference.
In the Wejl-Indies the olive complexion marks the
few furvivingoriginal inhabitants, the Caribbees, who
refemble thofe of Paraguay, and others along the
great Southern Ocean, up the ftraits of
But Captain Cook defcribes the people of the
Terra del Fogo w
ith faces like the ruft of iron mix­
ed with oil.
The Laplanders, the S
a a
nd the C
Tartars, are the only fwarthy or tawny Europeans.
Like them are the Afiatic Samoi/vdes, the Oj!lacks,
and the Tongos. The inhabitants of Grand Tar-
lary are dark, or of an olive-colour.
?n
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - Ç L A S S . 7 1
In thè fouthern provinces of China the (hade of
olive deepens, Qr grows darker; particularly in
Japan.
The fubje&s of the Grand Mogul are generally
of the fame dark complexion, although the Empe­
ror’s title (ignifies white. In Cambaye they are
grayiih, like cinders. On the coaft of Coromandel
a more tawny caft appears ; and on the Malabar
coaft a greater mixture of black is obferved.
The Perfiansin the northern provinces are pretty
fair ; but their complexions darken to the fouth-
ward in the higheft degree.
To the fouthward of Japan there is a eluder of
¡Hands, likewife inhabited by darkiih people; but
in Java and the Moluccas they refemble a colony
fettled in thofe parts, called , who are of a
blackiih red, or purple colour.
In the ¡(land of Formo/a that darkiih teint bor­
ders on black.
In the iile of Ceylon the blackiih ihade is not fo
deep as on the coaft of Malabar. In the Maldivas
the olive caft is predominant, blackening to the
fouthward.
Mixtures of all thefe colours chara£terize Ota-
heite, and the other new-difeovered countries,
where the immortal Cook, La Peroufe, and other
mariners of two rival nations, difplayed their intre­
pid ijpirit.
F 4 That
Digitized by Google
72 l a v a t e r 's
That tawny appearance forms a dark and deeper
teint along the Red Sea and the eaftern ihores of Afri­
ca, among the Egyptians, Ethiopians, or rather
Jinians; who have been mifreprefented as black, be-
caufe their country was formerly defcribed as Nubia.
Such is the diftinguiihing tin&ure of the ikin from
the plains and coaft of Barbary to Senegal; nay, as
far as the country inhabited by the Foulefe, whofe
ikins betray the changing (hade from deep brown,
or dark, to the jetty looks of blackamoors,-—who
appear in the back-ground of a picture of the hu­
man race ; where the contrail of colours is not lefs
aftonilhing than the infinite variety of mingled
ihadps.
Blackamoors,
B lack is the prevailing colour in the centre of
Africa, with gradual (hades of difference. This
jet is darkeft in Nigrilia, G,
and Congo
the fputhern bank of the Senegal to the river Gam­
bia, as well as in fome cities fituated more to the
northward, and in the kingdom of Tunis. But in
Guaden, or Hoden, to the fouthward of the defert
of Zanbaga,the black is not fo deeply damped on
the countenance as the dark or fwarthy complexion.
The negroes of the illands of Cape-verd and Go­
ne are of that polilhed ihining black, which may
be pompared to japan-ware, or fine ivory, or ebony.
Fr°ni
Digitized by Google
From the habit of feeing and admiring their per­
fons, they are flattered in the higheft degree with
the idea of being moft favoured by Nature with
that tinfture of the ikin which Europeans confider
as frightful and gloomy. Thus familiarized with
his beauty, the blackamoor makes a laughing-ftock
of fuch of his neighbours as are deficient in that
perfonal jetty charm which forms his pride. This
defeat is vifible in Congo, Sierra Leone, and on the
coaft of Malaguatta.
This race of men extends as far as Cape Negro.
Their jetty black gives way to the footy and fwarthy
air among the H
o
t
t
e
n
t
o
t
s
,i
n Caffraria, Monomotapa,
Sojala, Mozambique, Melinda, Madagq/car, and
the neighbouring ifles.
There are, likewife, Afiatic blacks mixed with
the inhabitants of countries already mentioned;
particularly in the Philippine ¡(lands, the peninfu-
la of Malacca, the ides of Sumatra and Sombreo,
as well as in New Guinea and New Holland.
After all thefe obfervations, feveral fyftems have
been fet up, in order to account for, and explain,
the caufesof fuch a (kin-deep colour as diftinguilhes
fo confiderable a part of the creation. But, fince
fome of the opinions darted appear abfurd, a few
refle£tions on this fubje£t may prove acceptable.
The (limy moidure in the pores is the principal
fubdance that contains the tincture of the (kin in
all living creatures, from man to the vegetable.
Thi?
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 7 3
Digitized by Google
l a v a t e r ’s
This matter is white and tranfparent in Europeans,
dark in Mulattoes, and black in and, in
them all, vifible on the furface of their ikins. If,
by a furgical operation, that kind of flime be taken
out of a Negro's ikin, the outfide will appear grey-
iih from the wound.
Wherever this mucus or fluid is prefled down, it
is leaft blackiih ; as we may obferve by the palm of
a Negro’s hand.
The fame obfervation is applicable to people
attacked with the yellow jaundice, as will appear
from the refult of an experiment upon two men
dead of that diforder, whofe outward ikin refumed
its former vvhitenefs, after having been waihed to
let out the mucous body, that melted in water; be-
caufe this die is, with refpeft to the ikin, as fub-
. fiances reprefented by a looking-glafs, iince it
throws out a greater or leffer refleftion according
to its fliades of light.
But if, when diffolved, it be permitted to fettle,
it will become black and folid again,—as we have
obferved in the courfe of our experiments; hav­
ing colle&ed a certain quantity of that matter by
means of an ivory blade; yet, being lefs fluid in
whites, it is nor fo eafily found as it is in fome vege­
tables.
Such is the paint that Nature ufes to beautify all
her works—the ihells of fiih, the feathers of birds,
and
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . T5
and the hides of brutes. It is likewife in our power
to introduce an artificial colour that the ikin will
imbibe, from inje&ions into the feat of the natural
teint defcribed.
KSSAY
Digitized by Google
i a v a t e r ’s
Hà
ESSAY XI.
Qn M
a
n
: containing the Principles adopted for
Stitdying Phyfognomy.
THE foregoing defeription of the human figure
leads to the ftudy of its feveral parts.
lit. Th§ Head; 2d, the Trunk; and 3d, the
Limbs, &c.
1ft. Man’s Head is .the molt noble and effential
part, as the center of his intellectual faculties. His
countenance alone would be expreffive, together
with the fair proportions of his ikull, even were
other parts of his body to be defective or disfigured.
A head that (trikes us at once as fitted to the
whole perfon, neither too large nor too fmall, ge­
nerally befpeaks a greater degree of found under-
ftanding than we have reafon to expeCt from a
thick, heavy, and clumfy block. A diminutive
fize is the fign of weaknefs. It (hould be neither
too much turned round-about, nor lengthened to an
extreme.—Symmetry forms perfection ; and we may
confider as juft models, thofe heads whofe length,
from the occiput to the tip of the nofe, is equal to
their horizontal breadth.
The face is divjded into three parts.
The
Digitized by Google
LOOkïitGGLASS.
The firft is from the forehead to the eye-brows,
the fecond is downwards to the noftrils, and the
third reaches to the peak of the chin.
The more thefe divifions are marked on the coun­
tenance, fo that their fymmetry is linking, the great­
er ground appears to expe£l ftrong intelle&s, with a
regular difpoiition or turn of mind.
An eccentric genius is feldom damped with the
lines that diftinguilh thofe three divifions; but their
equality will be found, more or lefs, upon all faces,
when they are meafured with a fofter implement
than a rule.
The following principles muft be adopted in
ftudying the Phyfiognomy.
lit. The vifage ihould be compared with the
whole body.
2d. The ftudent is to obferve whether it is oval,
round, or fquare, or of a mixed form.
3d. He muft examine it in a perpendicular point
of view, according to the three divifions adopted.
4th. He muft confider attentively the charafter
and expreflion of leading features, feen at fome dif-
tance.
5th. He is to attend to the fymmetry and harmo­
ny of the whole countenance.
6th. He is to obferve the defign, peculiarity, and
ihades of particular traits.
7 V
7th.
Digitized by Google
7 8 e a v a t e r ’s
7th. He ihould pay the fame attention to the
three quarters of the outlines upon a iketch thus fe-
parately confidered.
8th. Nor ought he to belefs attentive in reviewing
and comparing every fuch part as changes its ap­
pearance in a profile taken from a fide view.
Befides, if you look at the face length-ways, and
then turn it about, ib as only to fee the exterior out­
line of the bones, jutting out at the cheeks and
eyes, you will be able to read through a man’s foul,
and difcover his real charader according to the rules
of Phyfiognomy.
Whatever originality or extraordinary feature he
may poffefs, will break out in the folid parts and
ftrong lineaments j but the impreifions of his habits,
and acquired talents, will be found ftamped upon
his lips, according as he moves or fpeaks ; for there
the image of the mind-refle£ts its agitations, repofe,
and reflections, by indubitable figns, keeping pace
with every fituation and fentiment.
In the next place let us enlarge our picture, and
dwell upon the dignity of Man ; for, as Buffon,
the French Pliny, fays, *' fur la face augufte de
l’homme eft imprimé le caractere de fa dignite.”
The Forehead.
T he Forehead is that part of the face which ex­
tends from the foremoft roots of the hair down to
the eye-brows, and the root of the nofe.
4 The
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 7 9
The regular or irregular form of the brows,
their' height and compafs, tally with the turn and
meafure of our faculties, expreffing our feelings and
ways of thinking.
The ikin, fold, colour, eafe, and motion of the
brow, or temple, contain characters in which the
paflions and affections of the mind are clearly writ­
ten ; for it is the part that the ancients called the
gate of the foul, the temple of bluihing modefty.
Nor does the beauty of it confift in the fize, and
round or fquare ihape, fo much as in the exaCt pro­
portions with other parts of the vifage ; particularly
the inexpreffible majefty, feverity, and grace.
We are ftruck with admiration by a beautiful ob-
je£t!—the graces captivate us!—That firft degree
of perfection is the pulcher of the Romans,—the
fecond is theirformofus, or the pulchritudo cum
nufiate; or, as Milton has mod emphatically defcrib-
ed our firft mother Eve-----
Grace was in all her fteps, Heav’o in her eye,
In ev’ry geilure dignity and love.
The Eyebrows.
T h e Eyebrows are moving rays, extending croff-
ways like a bow, more or lefs curved, from the
root of the nofe to the outward and foremoft fides
of the t e mp l e s i n concert with the forehead and
eye-lids,
Digitized by Google
8 0 T.AVAtEE*S
eyelids, they contribute to mark the phyfiognoitoy,
by ferving as a kind of ihade that heightens the
forms and colours of a pi&ure.
. . > 'TheEyelids.
T he eyelids are two fixed wings, round before*
hollow backward, and open acrofs.—The form of
the opening correfponds with the jutting orb of the
eye, and isjoined by two angles. Both lids, par*
ticularly the upper lid, are covered with lalhes, of a .
triangular form; and, by acting in concert, they
contribute to give energy to the language of the
eyes.
The Eyes.
T he Eyes are almoft perfe£t globes, fixed in fock*
ets before and behind the eye-lids, clofe to the optic
nerve, and holding by fix mufcles, which direft their
motion.—This whole compofition is of a tender, -
glafly, and finewy fubdance, containing a humour
as brilliant as the fined crydal.
Eyes are of various colours—blue, yellow, gray,
whitiih, black, and mixed ihadesofthefe defcriptions.
A deep blue, dark, or quite black, gives to the eye
that fparkling ludre of diamonds, which we cannot
fo well perceive in lighter ihades of colour. The
circular fpace that encompaffes the apple, or ball,
is
Digitized by Google
t O O K I S G - G L ASS.
Is the iris, or bow, confiding of fmall tubes, like
rays darting around; and between thefe very fmall
downy ftrings, through a microfcope, or fometimes
with the naked eye, we may perceive' a number of
little flight and foft grains, appearing to crown the
whole circle, as it Were with a ray of glory, in
a manner that difplays the mod brilliant colours in
man and other animals. In fome creatufes this per-
fe£t fymmetry is fo (hiking, as to prefent a fet of
regular figures to the philofophic eye j nor, indeed«
pan fuch a fight be ferioufly contemplated, without
thofe pleating fenfations which attend refearches
into the fecrets of Nature.
The eye (hares the motions of the foul; exprefi“
-
ing all its feelings, ftorms, and agitations, in fuch
true language, as rapidly communicates every im*
preflion to the beholder whofe heart is open to it
and fufceptible of fympathy j while thus fentimen-
tal fpirit, found fenfe, and clear ideas, are convey­
ed with the force of lightning.
Much as the fife or languor of the eyes Contri­
butes to damp the leading features with their diftin-
guifhing perfection, and although they (trike us a9
if they moved in all dire&ions, they have, how­
ever, but one circular motion in turning about their
center, which they do in fuch a way, that the pupil
appears to go up and down, according as it. ap­
proaches, or removes from the angles. ,
G *
81
Digitized by Google
82 x a v a t x r ’s
The Nofe.
Lavater confiders the nofe as a kind of pulley*
gate to the brain:—this companion will, perhaps,
appear juft to men converlant with Gothic archi­
tecture.
It is, indeed, the moft prominent feature ; ex­
tending from the lower end and middle of the fore­
head down to the upper part of the upper lip.
We may divide its parts into the root, the fpine
or hack, the noftrils, and tip.
It’s roots join the forehead by the union of their
refpe&ive bones with the collateral branches of the
- upper jaw-
The fpine is formed by the continued chain of
inner bones, and by united griftles, extending
downwards to the peak or point.
The hollow confifts of two cartilages joined to­
gether; round without, and hollow within, which
form the paflages or noftrils.
The noftrils taper more or lefs, and turn round lh
the hind part, having a flight arch, narrower before
than backward, and feparated by a partition that
gives a fide view of the upper lip. ' .
All thefe parts described, being covered with
fkin, are imperceptible; except when the. nofe is
put in motion to contribute, as it does moft eflen-
tially, towards the exprellion, of the face.
A hand-
L O O K I N O - G ' L X S S .
A handfome nofe Is never feen upon an ugly
‘
countenance. Fine eyes frequently accompany de*
'formity; for they are a thoufathd to one fitch a
prominent, ftriking feature, as is feldom or never
•found without a regular fet of others; for, being
confidered alone, it conVeys a high idea of the pef-
fon bleft with it, according tb the following de-
-fcription:— —
The nofe ought to be as long as the forehead,
with a flight hollow*at the root.
On the front-vieW, the fpine or foundation ihould
be broad, and run up, in an even line, With both
tides, growing a-little larger about the middle.
The tip ought to be neither hard nor plumps
with the inner compafs corre&ly marked, neither
too pointed, nor too wide.
The wings of the nofe ihould be Very vifible
when we come to examine it at the lips, fo that
the noftrils maybe feen to taper elegantly below.
Taken in profile, the nofe ought to appear only
the third part of its length.
The noftrils ihould be tapering infenfibly $ atch-
ed lightly at the roof; and equally divided by the
fide of the upper lip.
* Neither the true Grecian nofe, nor the ApoBe di Behidere’s,
-has any hollow in the upper-part of it, where it is united and level
with the forehead.
G 2 The
Digitized by Google
8 4 l a v a t e r ’s
The bridge of the nofe ihould be fupported by
buttreffes, joining above the arch that borders op
the orb} nor ought it to be lefs than half an inch
broad.
Although thefe lines of diftin&ion conftitute per­
fection, it mull, neverthelefs, be acknowledged, that
many men of merit have been ill-treated by Nature
in that refpe£t; but we muft diftinguiih their pre­
eminence in perfonal merit. For inftance:—
Lavater fays, that he knew moil upright, gene­
rous, and intelligent men, fo unfortunate as to have
fmall carbuncles on the tides of their nofes, potwith-
flanding thofe qualities whiph rendered them fbft,
pliable, andpaffive objeCts; fitted, like wax, to re­
ceive delicate impreifions, rather than to hold the
reins of empire.
An aquiline nofe betrays a commanding afpeft,
an enterprizing fpirit, and becoming fortitude.
.Straight nofes hit the right medium between the
two extremes j and denote men endowed with cou­
rage, energy, and refignation to their fate. .
A ftraight or crooked nofe with a broad bottom
denotes fuperior intellects.
The fame eminent writer fays, that this form is
uncommon, and never deceived him in his opinion
of it.
Small noftrils indicate timidity and indolence.—
But when they are firm and extended, fuch a de­
licacy
Digitized by Google
licacy of fentiment may be expe&ed, as occafional-
ly to degenerate into a voluptuous love of pleafure.
The Cheeks. .
T he cheeks are thick and flefliy parts, fixed on
the fides of the vifage, extending from their lower
round border to the outward brim of the under-jaw; •
and from the fpherical bafe to the edges of the
nofe and lips, which are clofe to them, and form a
part of the countenance.
They follow the motions of the eye-lids, nofe, lips,
and lowerjaw ; and while their afpe£t is an index
to the ftate of the body, they are equally affefted
by diforders of the mind.—Grief covers them with
wrinkles, and they are furrowed over with ftupi>
dity.
But, on the other hand, wifdom, experience, and
ingenuity, ftamp all thefe outlines with fuch a po-
lifh, as is felt, but cannot be eafily expreffed; for a
man’s chara&er, in a moral, conftitutional, and intel-
leftual fenfe, may be afcertained by the degree of
care, brightnefs, and refinement that he has received
in all thefe points of view.
Let an experienced phyfiognomift exaihine the
bare compafs of the feftion that reaches from the
noftril to the chin, juft as it ftrikes him in two ways,
at reft and in motion; when it is agitated by tears •
or laughter, grief or mirth; a generous fympathy,
G 3 or
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 85
Digitized by Google
^8$ XAVATWV’S
or an honeft indignation; and then he- will eaiily
obferve how much his. features.there fumiih a text'
for interefting comments; according as the lines
are marked with faintdarkiih {hades, and fuch deli­
cate touches as exprefs.the fined fenfibility, or in-
fpire the higheft reverence with the moil tender af-.
feCtion.
Painters are too carelefs in making thefe particu­
lar diiUnCtions, to avoid the faipen,efs that, marks
their mafter-pieces with cold looks, or mere, pic­
tures of men, without their characters and leading
paffions.,
’ pimples* are likewife diftingui(hing perfections;
not peculiar to the fair.fex alone, being occafioned,
by the relaxation, of two mufcles entwined. It
would
* 0 1 * SM ILES..
The man.who wears no iiniles upon his face.
Nor blufhes. with'the fpur of, conipiou* love,
But ihpws a monkey’s grin» as knaves will do,
Looks down with frowning browslike Death for prey,
And views with envious eyes another’s joys;
N ay, he admits no mufic in his foul,
Nor is he mov’d by honefiy of heart
T 9 feel the, pleafures of a focial hour?
Or iplithis Tides, with laugjbter loving dames,.
W ho fpread the graces on their dimply cheeks, .
Communicating wit in fport and glee
Then
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S .
would be needlefs for us to dwell much on wKat
we feel—their grace ^nd beauty, wheh they proceed^
from the feelings of noble, tender, and generous*
hearts. .
The Mouth.
The mouth is an opening aerofs the face, formed
by the lips, cheeks, jaws, teeth, and tongue, and
extending to the palate, which feparates that gap.
from the hollow inner part.
There lies the breath of life, through the whole
range of Creation; and it is the Orator of the heart
and mind, that fpeaks in various chara&ers:—even
filence is often found more expreffive than any
language.
Indeed, this fe£tion of the vifage is very different
from the general idea attached to the word that de-
fcribes it; and, if every man was imprefled with a
due fenfe of its noble purpofes, he would deliver
only divine words from fuch a fan£tuary as ought
to dignify his actions. ’
Then, quickening every fenfe in dauce orfong,
They mock that mifer’s melancholy mood,
Till raptures foon intoxicate the brains,
While Reafon yields her empire for a flight,
And fays (as Shakefpeare faid for John O*Combe)
“ Let no fuch man be trufted.” ...
G 4 This
Digitized by Google
I. AVATfcR-’s
This organ of fpeech cxpreflfes wifdom and folly j
ftrengtb and weaknefs; virtue and vice; know­
ledge and ignorance j love and hatred j fincerity
and deceit •, humility and pride; difiimulation and
truth**
M
The Lips.
T he lips are two plump and fixed protuberances,
fetching acrofs, or curving a little like an egg,
from the bottom of the noftrils, the-fides and fore
part of the oheeks, to the down upon the chin.
The upper lip is roundifh, a little arched within,
hollow behind, tallying, with the globular form of
the teeth and gums, which it covers. It is marked
with a kind of gutter for humours running from
the nofe. The under lip is matched with the
other at the orifice, being a larger fupporter to it;
rather round without, hollow within, and having a
flight bafe for the upper lip.
* “ Bred in Lavater's fchool,” Augufta cries,
“ Which heft infpires with love,— the mouth or eyes
“ Sweet darling of my foul!” I thus replied,
W ith modeft wi(h her queftion to decide, •
Let thy line eyes with kind affeition glow—*
“ On me thofe ruby lips a kifs beftow j -
i* Clafp’d in thy arms I could determine never j
But killing all thy face I’d try for ever !
According
Digitized by Google
LO O K I N G - G L A S S . 89
According as they aré both open, (hut, gaping,
Wretched out by laughing, or drawn clofe by forrow,
refle£tion, and even whittling, we obferve their effe£t
upon the human figure.
TheTeeth and Gums.
N o th ing is more ftriking than the fignificant
expreffion of teeth, in fetting off the vifage in every
point of view that exhibits their eafe and beauty.
They are the hardeft, whitett, and only vifible
bones of man; like irregular cones, fixed in fock-
ets within the jaws, in a row of fixteen to each
jaw. Thus the regular number is generally two-
and-thirty. They are of three kinds, matched on
each fide ; four upper teeth, two eye-teeth, one on
each fide,, and five grinders in each rank.
Every tooth has, out of the focket, a kind of vifi­
ble parapet or crowned work; and concealed
prongs, or a foundation divided by a circular line
or bandage.
The fore-teeth are iharp and rpundiih; larger in
the upper jaw than in the lower one.
The fangs, or eye-teeth, are thicker, rounder,
larger, longer^ and more pointed than the others.
The grinders are almoft fquare, ihort, broad,
rough, and pitted like diamonds.—The two firft are
double-pronged; the others have feveral points j and
the tooth of wifdom, thelaft cut, at the age ofpuberty,
is
Digitized by Google
90 L A V A T E R ’s
is rounder at the top, but of a letter fize, and not fo
pointed as the others.
Every root of the teeth has a fmall tube, cover­
ed with a membrane, that ferves as a (heath to the
fibres and nerves.
The tooth is compofed of two fubftances; the
infide-a.kind of bark, and the outward part, called
enamel, refembles glafs or china-ware, in fome.
degree.
Teeth are fattened in their fockets by the band
of-the gums, which is riveted, as we may fay, to-
their borders. Young, hale, and hearty people
have elaftic gums,,rofy, and glittering.; but age'
relaxes and gives them a paler colour.
The principal.ufe of the teeth is for chewing:
the fore-teeth cut and carve ; the fangs break,
and the grinders bruife food as with a mill-ftone.
They are, likewife, not only ornaments, but re­
quisites for the pronunciation of words, particu­
larly the fore-teeth.
Painters are guilty of a great negled in omit­
ting fo eflentiai a part in their hiftorical pieces ;
for if we confrder it attentively, we (hall dis­
cover this ’branch of the features to be no lefs
important than expreflive, particularly from its
clofe connexion with the lips, in reprefenting weak-
nefs,. hvpocrifv, and villany.
The
Digitized by Google
LOOK I-N© -G L A S S . 91
TheChin.
T he chin is that hillock whofe motions keep
pace with the neck and lips, being fixed to the
fore-part of the lower jaw , under the lower lip, and
projecting before the cheeks. •
Long experience has proved to judges of fea­
tures, that a forward chin denotes a determined-,
character, while a fmoother one announces imperr
fe&ions.
Upon, this principle we may diftinguiih three r
kinds of chins more or lefs expreflive.
lit. The tapering, or female chin, moitcommen
to the fair fex, gives a juft ground to fufpeCt. a.weak,
fide.
2d. The fecond clafs runs in a ftraight line with
the under lip, when it is feen tideways. This kind
infpires confidence. •
3d. The third, or (harp-pointed chin, is a fure
fign of an aCtive and ingenious mind.
The Ears. "
T he ears are two protuberances of a fpongy and
griftly. fubitance, projecting fideways, and doping,
from the centre of the head towards the nofe and
eyes.
They have feveral folds and hollows. The firft
told, or bpard, is called helixi the fecond, anti-.
Digitized by Google
92 l a v a t e r ’s
helix, fmaller, and more inward j the third, ,
ftill fmaller; and the fourth, anti-tragus, pretty for­
ward, and a little Hoping within the (hell. The
lower lobe is foft, without griftle, roundiih, rather
oval, and containing feveral cavities, particularly
the fcapha, the paflage that communicates with
the drum, or tympane.
‘ Although the ear of a man moves lefs than the
fame part in other animals, ftill it is fubjeft
to the motions of the ikull, and other impreftions
communicated by found: nor would it, probably,
be fo quiet, were it not for the cuftom of covering a
child’s ear from its infancy.
Yet we are perfuaded that this wing of the body,
as it admits of no difguife, bears an expreffive fea­
ture, and fets off the fymmetry of the whole.
The Trunk.
T he trunk is that fe&ion of the human body
which extends from the lower part of the head
to the upper end of the limbs, facing the ihoulders,
and Hoping towards the flank, in the form of a long
fquare, tapering round within fide, pretty flat be­
hind, and having before two remarkable cavities,
one bony and griftly in its circumference, called
the bread, and the other almoft all fleihy, except
jabout the back, loins, inteftines, &c.
The neck reaches from the head to the upper
parts of the breaft and back, tapering before, and
thicken-
Digitized ' Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S .
thickening behind, correfponding above, and for­
ward, with the bafe of the lower jaw, and running
below upon a line with the (houlder-blade, the
hinges, and thofe recedes where the power of freez­
ing is depofited.
In the hind and upper part it is connected with
the temple ; behind and below it is blended with
the top of the fpine and froulders, proje&ing, with
varied motions, in the (hape of what is commonly
called Adam’s apple, or the larynx. As this pro-
je&ion follows all the figns made by the human
voice, it claims the particular attention of ftudents;
indeed, although the features of this part (the neck)
are very expreflive, they have been hitherto but lit­
tle known. .
Lavater acknowledges that it was the firft branch
of his favourite ftudies, and had he not been ftruck
with fo fignificant an object of admiration, the
world would not have been indebted to him for
a line upon Phyfiognomy.
What expreflion there is in ftiff or eafy necks,
whofe varied poilures feem adapted to our faculties!
—for the human mind either cringes, advances, or
ihrinks back. '
A well-ihaped neck infallibly denotes a Heady
and refolute chara&er; but natural wens generally
accompany, ignorance and iiupidity, although they
proceed partly from the quality of the water, as in
Switzerland. .
' The
93
Digitized by Google
94 lÄ V A T E lt’s
The Variety of necks is remarkable through the
whole range of Creation; and among 'four-tfoo'te'd
animals this feature indicates either their force or
Weaknefs.
The charafteriftic traits of the trunk fiimiih a
matter of contemplation, to which it is difficult to
do juftice; but any novelty found in our obfervations
upon it, muft plead, in fome meafure, for a faint de-
fcription, and fuch rules as may direft the ftudy Of
this effential fcience.
lit. In the fifft place, a ftudent ihould afcettain
every attitude incident to the trunk.
'2d. He ihould follow, with a curious eye, all
ihofe poftures conne&ed with the motions of the
head and four extremities.
3d. Nor ought he lefs anxiouily to watch thofe
moving fprings of refpiration, digeftion, and other
ufes of the belly, from which the vilible figns, re­
traced, of contending paffions chiefly originate.
Every expreffive (hade of difference, that is furnifh-
•ed by a contrail of reft with anxiety, muft be traced,
in fome degree, fo far as to form a juft idea of the
part affected, in its bearings relative to others.
The well-known* Torfo, in the Vatican at Rome,
is a perfeft model of a well proportioned figure
• back
* The writer of this note has fome doubts whether this mailer-
piece of ancient fculpure has not been removed to Paris iince
he
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-G/L.ÀSS. 95
back and belly, with every line that retraces, :in aU
points of view, Herculean ltrength, majeflic -grace,
and delicate comelinefs, mingled in a manner that
infpires the admirer of it with a high opinion of
Art and Nature at once .difplayed.
It is here that the fculptor will fee the mar­
vellous effeCt of mufcles, tendons, &c. in their
elafiic tone, together with the beautiful outlines
that the whole liasReceived from the Creator’s hand.
Through the leading features of fuch a flump of
man, an intelligent pupil will fee the violent agita­
tions of the heart, lungs, and midriff, or obferve
the effect of more refined and calmer feelings.—
What a field is open for talents to reprefent, in a
true light, every interelling fituation, with fuch
myfteries as furpafs the general conception of man­
kind, and bid defiance to the refearches of vulgar
eyes! On this occafion, it becomes us to contra­
dict an opinion which has too long prevailed,—
that the face alone contains expreflive ftriking
features; for, in the eftimation of a Phyfiognomift,
all parts of the body are damped with fuch marks
he enjoyed the pleafure of admiring it io the Clementine Mu-
feum.
The famou3 Laocoon, brought to France, will likewife ferve as a
text upon which modem, furgeons may write volumes of commen­
taries. •
as
Digitized by Google
96
as equally denote a man’s character, his inclina*
nations, and fenfations. -
TheExtremities.
T he extremities are divided into upper and low*
er, right and left.
The upper extremities comprehend the ihoul-
ders, arms, and hands. Their length is fuch as
is formed by fuppofing *hem ftretdhed out with the
palm of the hand turned towards the thigh, fo far
as the fingers reach, or down to the middle of that
limb: their bulk ought to be proportioned to the
other parts of the body, when it is in good cafe}-
and the whole contributes equally to fymmetry,
with peculiarities ftriking us fo much the more fen-
libly, when we compare the gladiator, the grinder,
and the blackfmith, with the idle man in the fame
attitude.
The great difficulty of reprefenting properly thefe
extremities proceeds from- the different forms of
thofe hafts and hinges by which they are joined
together. Hence arifes a difproportion of length
and bulk between the bones and the fleihy fub-
ltance; as we may difcover from the ftudy of this
particular fyitem.
The hand is that part which conveys the greateft
number of meanings, and performs fo many talks
affigned to it, by collecting in itfelf the whole force
of its adjoining parts, more or lefs, according to
fituation;
l a v a t e r ’s
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 97
fituation; at the fame time that, feparately confi-
dered, it is perfect in every refpeft proportioned to
the reft, diftinguiihed by legible figns, and animat*
ed by the blood that circulates from the head and
heart.
Among a million of hands> which might be com­
pared, not one would match another, taken for a
model; nay, were it poflible to fit a new finger
upon a fitt that wanted it, however art might
imitate nature, the work would be imperfect, and
the difference of execution would ftrike every eye
familiarized with their produ£iions; for, with the
higheft invention, a man could only fpy or borrow
beauties from objects that he fees with a glance,
without being able to conceive the grand fcale and
wonderful mould in which they are formed.
Thus the hand makes a folemn appeal to our
feelings and judgment, with fo much the more
candour, as it a£ts fairly and above board, being
unable to conceal its leaft motion, even when it is
dire£ted by the greateft villain, or the moft cunning
hypocrite*
Above twenty joints contribute to thofe move­
ments which exprefs the varied fenfations of the
mind, together with bodily pleafure or pain, ac­
cording as it is ufed, either as a neceffary appen­
dage, or an ornament to the language of the. bar;
the pulpit, and the ftage. Nor need we attempt to
defcribe it better than in Montaigne’s following
H words:------
Digitized by Google
98 l a v a t e r ’s
words : ■ “ Quoi des mains ? Nous requirons,
nous promettons, appelions, congédions, menaçons,
prions, fupplions, nions, refufons, interrogeons, ad­
mirons, nombrons, confeflons, répétons, craignons,
vergoignons, doutons, infirmions, commandons, in-
ilftons, encourageons, jurons, témoignons, accufons,
condamnons, abfolvons, injurions, meprifons, dé­
fions, dépitons, flattons, applaudiflons, beniflons,
humilions, moquons, reconcilions, recommandons,
exaltons, feftdyons, rejouiflons, complaignons, at­
tritions, deconfortons, defefperons, étonnons, exa­
minons, taifons.”
Such are the various employments of the hand.
The trunk is fupported by two lower extremities
on the fides, confiding of the Thigh, Knee, Leg,
and Foot. .
The thigh is longer than the leg, curving a little
forward, and rather hollow behind, being about
fourteen inches long in a well-fet man, thicker
above, and, within fide, tapering below. It con­
tributes, with the knee-pan, and the upperqpart of
the leg, to form the knee, a part that is hàrd to be
defcribed, on account of its form, and fundry par­
ticles.
The leg is fixed between the foot and thigh, m
a perpendicular line with the latter, and forming a
contrail to it by the fleihy parts, or calves, and ancle-
bones jutting out.
. The
Digitized by Google
Lo o k in g -glass.
The foot is joined to the leg, being rather round
above, and hollow at the foie, longer before than
at the heel: it is higher, broader, and hollower on
the infide, more lengthened at the inftep, evener
and longer at the outer part of the heel.
This limb is the foundation or fupporter of the
human figure j nor will it appear to be lefs figni-
ficant than the hand, when we take into confidera-
tion its various ufes, in dancing, jumping, walking,
running, riding, refting, &c. by which every excel*
lence is difcovered: nor can we help preferring feet
to hands for fuperior utility, upon reflecting on the
many infiances of cripples, who, with their flumps,
have been able to write, knit, play upon mufical
inftrumettts, and ftir about, or fill fome other em­
ployment in a fitting pofture ; but the hands would
ferve but as poor fubftitutes for fuch ufeful fup-
porters.
Our learned predecefior in this ftudy allures us,
that he has diftinguifhed in thefe two members of
the body the figns of fweet temper, pride, and
dignity, with other extraordinary qualities; but we
iliall only add, that, befides their general proportion
to other parts, the toes bear a ftriking likenefs of
the correfponding thumbs.
Uponthe Attitude of a Man Standing.
M an is the only living creature that can fiand
Upright with a bold and unchanging countenance.
H 2 It
0 9
Digitized by Google
100 l a v a t e r 's
It is true, that a bear is likewife large-footed, and
accudomed to raife himfelf up when he is going to
fight; fo do monkies, in fome degree, imitate the
poftures of men, as well as that fpecies of beings
the ouran-outangs, who come neareft to the human
fpecies. But an ape has not fo'broad a foot; nor
need we doubt of the danding attitude being pe­
culiar to us, if we refle£t that it has been preferved
not only by favages, but likewife in fuch perfons as
have grown up wild and ignorant among their only
companions the beads of the field.
Indeed, it is out of the power of a four-footed
animal to keep himfelf firm in the fituation where
a rational creature dands upon a dire£t line, pair­
ing by the centre of gravity between the os pubis
and the breech, down to the fquare left between
the foies of his feet, or fuch a line mud fall upon
one foie, in cafe he dood upon a fingle foot.
We likewife know, that it would be labour in
vain to make a corpfe dand erect in that manner,
for want of thofe pullies which fudain the living
man, in the direction that he fakes to balance his
weight, by the command of fuch mufcles as are
pliable and fubfervient to the main pillars of his
frame.
We may furely be difpenfed from giving a full
explanation of the admirable máchinery that deli­
neates a falling, rifing, or dippery podufe ; but let
us add, that, as a man’s thighs dretch out more
than
Digitized by Google
t O O K J N G - G L A S S . 101
than in other animals, their point, formed by the
narrow part that joins the bones, does not exceed
an angle of forty-five degrees. Thus the whole
body receives a fufficient prop; for, were not the
upper ftory fecured,' the ftru£ture would give way,
from its preffure and natural bias ; only one mufcle,
however, promotes the forward motion, while fo
many others keep it up.
In iliort, the head is kept fteady by the fpirte of
the neck, extended by various fibres, whofe elaftic
force keeps it from reeling in fleep; while its gentle,
forward motion, is favoured by a few inconfiderable
firings. The crane, as we may call it, is likewife
ballafted, or fortified, in fuch a way as prevents it
from leaning improperly to either fide.
Ajl thefe, and other parts, move continually
while we ftand; fo that eafe is naturally fought
by a change of attitude, and alternately moving on, v
or ihifting the foot that bears the burden.
H 3 ESSAY
Digitized by Google
102 l a v a t e r ’s
ESSAY XII. ’
Upon a Man's Walk.
A MAN’s natural pace is lefs fatiguing, and
eafier to be described than a motionlefs halt;
Handing, he muft have one foot Hill and firm, as a
fupporter to the other that the mufcles are to put
in motion. They both advance alternately, while
the leg rifes, and the thigh is dragged on as if it
were by Hiding knots; fo that the feet are con*
trailed while the knees move forward, and all, in
their turns, perform the talks afligned to them, in
fuch exercife as varies in fpeed or agility.
The toes touch the ground, more or lefs, ac­
cording to the degree of velocity; the trunk bears
upon the columns; but they move one after
the other, each making room for the mufcles to
ail their parts; and, in order to relieve them, we
naturally lean forward, without confulting the
graces, juft as mountaineers, particularly on the
Alps, are apt to crofs fummits in a kind of amble,
their bodies Hooping and Hoping, with an ap­
parent degree of eafe. '
On
Digitized by Gc ’)gk
LOOKING-GLASS.. 103
On Running and Leaping.
R unni ng differs from walking no lefs in pace
than the manner of performing this exercife.
The hind part of the foot, according as we raife
it*, is contra&ed to fuch a degree as only to touch
the ground with the toes, while the foies are fuf-
pended. For this reafon, thofe living creatures
who lay down all their feet, are flow; fuch as man,
and the bear; thofe are fwifter who ufe only their
toes; and the fwifteft run on tiptoes, as dogs, deer,
and horfes do.
At the fame time that the leg is raifed by pliable
mufcles, the knee advances, and the thigh moves
more forcibly; fo that the alternate angles form­
ed by different joints become more pointed, and
the bones, by ftretching, take a larger compafs
around the bails and the line that they follow,
confequently with a falter motion.
The balance is vifibly kept forward, rather in an
ungraceful manner, as it would be impoffible to
run quite upright; the arms keep pace with the
body, whofe weight quickens the march, and
checks the refpiration.
A Rap exceeds a race in violence, as much as
running furpaffes a common pace. It requires
no great exertion of the limbs, for the heels
rife; the legs lean forward upon the feet, while
H 4 the
Digitized by Google
104
the toes are fupported and prepared to make 3
deep impreflion upon the ground.
The angle, whofe end is at the heel, becomes
more pointed; the knee projects forward confider-
ably; the legs bend toward the thighs, which give
way at the fame time that the body falls down-r
wards; and the leaper’s perfon appears diminiftiedj
till he ftretches himfelf out by a violent effort that
makes his limb* get up behind together with his
body. This recoil is favoured by the board or
ground on which he falls, as we fee in tumblers
on a ftage.
Our bodies are capable of greater movements
than we generally ufe, and neceflity difcovers our
powers by iharpening our appetites and invention.
Daily _examples prove, that maimed men have
learnt to write and perform with 'their feet the
duties of their loft hands.
In the fame manner, from habit and practice,
they not only balance themfelves upon the flighted
prop, but likewife execute fuch other feats as dis­
play their addrefs, and are not unworthy of our
meditation.
l a v a t e r ’s
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 1 0 5
ESSAY XIII.
On theFive .
THE organs or inftruments ufed for communi­
cating the fenfes are natural machines, fltuated at
the end of the nerves adjoining the brain, for the
purpofe of reprefenting diftant objects.
lft. The Eye is a Camera Obfcura, or a dark
ground, that reflects the image of objeCts, with
their proportions, ihape, and complexion. .
' 2d. The Ear is a drum, ftretched upon a (hell,
joined by a flight ftring, and fluttering with the
leaft breath of air.
3d. The Nofe is a very large, moift, and twitted
tiffue, attracting the volatile parts of the air that
get into it.
4th. The Tongue is a kind of fponge, that licks
up and imbibes fuch matter as does not hurt it.
5th. The Touch, or Feeling, is formed by foft and
fmall threads* or ruihes, which receive the impref-
flon of other fu^ftances.
Moft living creatures are fupplied with thefe
organs, but not in the fame degree of perfection.
Had they been more numerous, we ihould have
had ftronger faculties; juft as the load-ftone attracts
iron,
Digitized by Google
iron, and amber betrays the prefence of ele£tric
fluid.
Infe£ts alone have fail-yards, of which we do not
know the ufe any more than they can judge of
our ears.
It is by force of light that the eye difcovers fur­
rounding obje& s; the ear liftens to them from the
impulfe of air; the tpuch feels them from their
fubftance and refiftance; while the nofe fmells them
by the impreifion of volatile parts upon nerves con-
ne£ted with it ; the tongue taftes foft or foluble
matters by the fenfation that they make upon the
fibres. *
106 l a v a t e r ’s
* The order.and ufes of ten pair of nerves are thus explained b^
a French Poet:—
Le plaifir des parfums nous vient de la premiere,
La fécondé nous fait jouir de la lumière.
La troifieme a nos yeux donne le mouvement,
La quatrième inftruit des fecrets d’un amant.
La cinquième parcourt Tune & l’autre mâchoire,
La fixieme dépeint le mépris & la gloire.
La feptieme connoît les fons & les accords ;
La huitième au dedans fait jouer cent reiîorts.
La neuvième au difcours tient nôtre langue prête ;
Et la dixième enfin meut le col & la tête.
For the benefit of thofe who underftand only the Englifh language,
we attempt an imitation or paraphrafe of the foregoing verfes on th e
fubjeêl diicufled.
4 On
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S , 107
On viewing Nature’s noble plan of things,
W e find Five Senfes mov’d by double firings;
W hile every fibre aids the lively fenfe,
Ordain’d by wifefl laws of Providence.
The firfl, in rank, diredls our fragrant fraell $
The fecund gives us power of feeing w ell;
The third commands the motions of our fight,
T o contemplate with eafe the facred ligh t;
The fourth to fecret lovers gives the law ;
The fifth keeps time in moving either jaw ;
The fixth, by turns, pourtrays our pride or flight;
The feventh afTerts to melody a right;
T o wake the foul with feelings fit for kings,
The eighth flrong nerve employs a hundred fprings $
The ninth excites the call for daily bread;
The tenth fuflains, with grace, the neck and head ;
For Adam’s children, upflarts, lords, and kings,
Are tun’d, like harpfichords, with tender firings.
Thus mufic, poetry, and art combine,
W ith equal harmony, to draw the line:
As Handel’s notes flill charm the Britifh ear,
So Garrick’s language us’d to draw the tear;
Infpir’d by Shakefpeare and the tragic Mufe,— •
fo r who could tears at their command refufe i
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
lA V ^TtlTs
108
ESSAY XIV.
On Changes produced bp the leading as
they are imprejfedon the human Countenan
and the whole Appearance of the Body, with re-,
fpect to Painting.
LE BRUN's Iketches contain the principal figns
by which the paflions manifeft themfelves, as tran-
fports of the foul, by fuch impreflions on our fenfes
as are reprefented by motions of the body. Thus
whatever pafles at the feat of life is difcovered
without difguife, for every pallion has a peculiar
language and chara&er.
No ftriking alteration of the mufcles proceeds
from flight fenfations, fuch as furprife, admiration,
efteem, veneration, &c. ; but, although the whole
frame feems to be at reft while it keeps pace with
peace of mind under thefe circumftances, they
ftamp upon the features a particular caft, vifible to
difccrning eyes. For inftance ; aftonifliment is ex-:
prefled by a backward motion of the head, flaring
eyes, riling brows, ihrivelled forehead, and an
open mouth.
But when we admire, our looks recover more of
their natural air; we gape lefs, and gaze quietly,
without over-ftraining a feature. *
We
Digitizec _Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 109
We find refpe£tful fentiments conveyed with a
natural pofture, attention, and a flight ftoop; while
even the eye-brows flope towards the nofe, and
curve a little about the temples.
Grief has its particular expreflions; a languish­
ing air, a heavy countenance, a relaxation of all
the mufcles; the head carelefsly leaning upon
either Shoulder, prickly eye-brows, half-funk eyes
of a pale yellowiib colour; the comers of the lips
pointing downwards, and Shewing what we juftly
. call a chap-fallen wretch.
Other emotions depend on mental or constitu­
tional weaknefe, with Shades of difference between
them, and greater agitations in their gradations
from timidity to fright; while the foul Shrinks with
Shame upon itfelf, as we may fay, and, from a Slate
of deje&ion, falls into the loweft degree of mifery,
—infanity. Thefe varying Situations have equally
their fymptoms marked upon the countenance.
When we are frightened, while our eye-brows
Stand on ends, with their mufcles contrafted; the
forehead is wrinkled; the eye-lids open, and try to
conceal themfelves under the eye-brows, in fuch a
manner as to difcover almoSt all the white of the eye
above the pupil, which falls and hides itfelf behind
the lower lid: the mouth gapes, the lips Stretch
out, difcovering the teeth and gums, with all the
veins of the difcoloured and disfigured face; for
even the hair then briftles and Stands on ends.
Pleafant
Digitized by Google
1 1 0 l À V A T E R ’â
Pleafant feelings are marked by infinite Ways j
geftures, dancing, &c. Immoderate fits of laughter
produce diftortions worthy of notice ; for when we
are ready to fplit our fides, the veins of the neck
and face fwell; the mufcles are puffed up; the eye­
brows rife from the middle of the upper lid, and
fall downwards about the nofe; the eyes are al-
moft ihut; the mouth, halfopen, difcovers the teeth ;
the corners of the lips ftretch upwards j the cheeks
are drained, and the eyes appear to diflblve in
tears; the blood flies up into the face, and while
the head is kept backward, the whole body bends
a little forward, and the arms, extended, fall upofi
the flank.
It follows, of courfe, that when a young painter
is to reprefent rage and defpair, he muft not forget
any attitude that accompanies a wild and frantic
look,—the body forward, the upright threatening
head, the hands clenched, unlefs they are armed $
a wrinkled forehead, felf-biting lips, with their
corners half open, to exprefs the grinning, bitter,
cruel, and difdainful feoff. During fuch a ftorm as
he would ftrive to retrace, the living obje£t alter­
nately changes colour, the upper veins are puffed
up, and, as we have before obferved, he appears
pale as a ghoit, and partly raving like a lunatic.
Thefe are the fad extremes, againft which Reafon
does not always fufficiently guard the belt of men.
/ ESSAY
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . I l l
ESSAY XV.
Anatomical Explanations of Changes produced by
the Paffionsupon the Human Figure.
WE come now to explain the caufes of thofe
Angular, various, and aflonifhing effeCts, which are
produced by motion and fentiments upon the hu­
man Agure, particularly the countenance. In this
purfuit we mult conAder the fubjeCt under the fol­
lowing heads, viz.—
lit. The conftderable number of parts covered
by the face.
2d. Their different directions, firings, and bands.
3d. Their peculiar movements.
4th. The power of the refleCtor, or glafs, that
reprefents to our Aght the ftate of the body and
mind.
5th. The effeCt of Acknefs upon the vJfage, and
how the paffions are there impreffed, without our
knowledge and confent.
6th. The degree of force with which the blood
flows through the fmalleft tubes.
7th. The vital fpirit poured by the nerves.
8th. The harmony and diforder of fuch parts
the vifage as are a Axed objeft of meditation to
the thinking man.
As
Digitized by Google
1 1 2 l a v a t e r ’s
As all thefe vifible alterations can be proved from
the animal fyftem in living creatures, we proceed
to mention the principal inftruments employed in it.
If, for a moment, with the mind’s eye, we trace
the roof and ceiling of that ftupendous piece of
architecture, the head, we (hall find it molt regu­
larly defigned and executed, with a folid, well-
fupported partition-wall, or floor, upon which all
the moveable parts of the face are fixed: we then
difcover in this curious work different avenues, which
Nature has wifely left as channels of communica­
tion between the inner centre, or vital parts, and
the vifible front. Befide this wonderful contriv­
ance, a great number of mufcles are fixed to the
bony, or crown-work, with their moveable points
Hoping towards the outward ikin or furface of the
whole. Hence arifes a fudden change upon the
face, from varied motions of the eyes, brows, and
every other part that is continually touched by
thofe tender firings which communicate in fo many
ways with the foft parts fufceptible of impreflions.
Independently of thefe mufcular agents, is an
incredible quantity of nerves, connected with the
brain and the organs of the five fenfes already de-
fcribed: thefe have their intricate windings and
turnings ; being interfered, and advancing for­
ward, they contribute to the texture of the Ikin.
The veins and arteries have the fame circuitous
route. All thefe parts are fixed together upon a
. fubftan-
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 113
fubftantial layer; and as all the chinks between
them are filled up by the general confequence of
good living, a comely appearance is preferved in
addition to a blooming complexion.
It is likewife eafy to obferve, that the veil, thus
formed to cover the vifage, is thinner in fome
parts than in others; being very fine upon the eye­
brows, within the nofe, and on the lips; but thick­
er on the forehead, cheeks, and chin.
In fupport of thefe obfervations, let us give
fome examples to illuftrate the theory.
A face painted with joy appears ferene, with
all the adjoining parts unruffled; for the nervous
power is there neither too flow, nor too quick: but
a forrowful countenance is disfigured with wrinkles
or plaits, formed by the flirinking mufcles, from the
brows to the lips. This effeCt appears to proceed
from the diforder of the nerves, affefted by the
irritation of the mind.
A profound melancholy is marked in ftronger
characters. The nervous fyftem being deranged,
thofe finer firings, the mufcles, are more contract­
ed :—the eye-lids fcarcely perform their duty; or, if
they open half way, it is only to let out, through
their fluices, a flood of tears. The mufcles of the
nofe and mouth ihrink with violence—the eye­
brows are knitted—twitchings follow, and bring
on a temporary interruption of breath, from the
ruffling of the nerves communicating with the mid­
I riff
Digitized' b
yGoogle
,riff and the feat, of the lpngs; where,. the .air be­
ing let out by their fri^tipn and copvullion, that diffi­
culty of breathing is attended with.fyrnptom? fa­
miliar to every obferver, who finds the wboje frame
¿habere and/linking under its own weight‘for\yjmt
pf thofe elafticfprings which, promote the circulat­
io n of the blood: Hence proceeds a fwoon, mark-
"/ti. by the colour of death; and occafionally re­
lieved by fuch a quick perfpiration, as extra&s a
moifture that may be called, under thofe circum-
ftances, the tears or exhalations of the whole body.
All the mufcles are expofed to a ftill greater dis­
order by a violent agitation of the nerves, when
it is caufed by a -fit of paffion.—The vifage is inr
flamed—-the eyes fparkle—the fleiby fibres, fimnk
at the mouth, nofe, forehead, eye-brows, and eye-*
lidsj—
rth© iQwer jaw jlarts up, vyhile the lips, altert
nately join aqd ftfe.tojj, difcpvermg .the uibawog
tongue and*teeth. Nor is the i»ternaf .ft&
04p<,fefifr
boifterous/ from the ificreafe of vital fluid by/th©.
nervous cpndp^prs,which are .ihpt.upwards by-the
ftrohgeftjaod mqft tender firings of a fe&iiog mind, i
^Tiatftrjkes;©s as'deferving the higheft admira­
tion, is, the :(W«?trrulmg command of the counte­
nance which thofe nerves poffefs, from their twitt­
ed form, to fuch a degree of fwiftnefs and fidelity*
as to betray the fecrets of our hearts, and prov©
dilfin^ulatiop even in the greateft hypocrite. ,
.. > . ... . Siofift
f
-
1
-
1
4 , IrAViST?R’S !
Digitized by Google
LuOKiNd-diAsS. .
r:: Since an uncommon fluih and fuddeti pajenefs
ftfe infallible ligns of oppofite agitations, Nature;ha$.
wifely contrived to confine the tubes and veins of
the face within a confiderable number of chains,
for the purpofe of fixing inltantly upon the phyfiog-
nomy ^itamp of the paffions in characters,>making
a deeper impreffion-with the hand of Time^ fo
that the principle of life (the blood) having tinned
the furfaee’
', according to our varying affections and
habits, their marks are never effaced; nor is it then
difficult for a judge of features to read at once the
lines in old men, fo as to know their profeHioae,
and difpdfitidns. : . - - •
- Thff cpmptexjon .is likewife affefted by'lets.lijve-r -
ly.fertfations,' as when we bluih froth (hame .W
ith:»
odt our will* in a manner that muftbeaccojmted
for by coqfidewng the fpot that.difcovers thermae#
nal fecret agitatidn ,pfoducirig'fuch%change.. '
• The veins and arteries of the checks are connect­
ed with others in a chain of circulation, fupported
by the upper and lower nerves, ,which aft and re*
aft upon the whole mafs of blood ; returning quick­
ly through thofe channels, after having been kept
back with the preffure accompanying the fentimeat
marked by' b'hfflies} thus .proceeding from everp ,
nerve that.agitates our ferifes, mereor-lefs, accord*
ing to ftreumftance>;«nd fifuafioBis.: • ’ >
. Befides, :io’the,:miffeular fibres...of. the arterkij
there is a moving power—a centre, from which
-..l ; I 2 . fpring
• gitized by C ' )glc
116 L A V A T E R ’ i
fpring out the (lender nervous firings varying in
proportion to the fenfations produced in the mind ;
but, although their ftrength is not exerted on all oc-
cafions, they aft in concert with every nerve irritat­
ed, as in a general convulfion, arifing from a dif-
Qrder of the whole fyftem, when the circulating
fluid ceafes to flow in fome particular parts. •
It is not, however, from (icknefs alone that pale-
nefs originates; for it equally attends fuch fits of
pafiion as convulfe the frame; but moderate anger
flakes a different impreflion, by animating the coun­
tenance like a flow of fpirits.
The chain of conneftion kept up by,the nerves
is very differently difplayed in fear, terror, melan­
choly, and fuch other impreflions as are made by an
indifference or averfion to particular objefts. The
fudden change of colour then continues, more or
lefs, according to the force of fuch fenfations.
An entire relaxation of the nerves has another
effeft upon the tubes and conduftors which diftri-
bute the vital principlethe mufcular fibres lofe
their elaftic power; and as all the organs of fenfa-
tion abound in the arteries of the face more than in
any other part, their inaftivity flops the red fluid
from riling there, and thusoccafions the pale colour
that indicates the want of animation, in every fenfe
of the word; for the body correfponds exaftly with
the mind in reprefenting and (haring all their feel­
ings.
This
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 117
This correfpondence is maintained by various
imperceptible fprings of a&ion, by which thofe in-
ftruments of fenfation (the nerves) are moved in
perfeft harmony wherever they are moil fufceptible
of imprefiions; particularly on tender parts; con­
fiding, like the lips, ofa kind of gauze, or a thin veil,
for blufhing beauty. We need not, therefore, be at
a lofs to account for the inexpreffible raptures com­
municated through every vein by an Englifh* bufsf
from the fair objeft of our lovej for, like lightning,
it pierces the foul, and makes the heart leap with
exquifite joys of fenfibility!
Let us now trace, with the eyes ofanatomifts, the
wonderful effect of thofe delicious impreffions made
by kifles.—The delicate texture of the lips is inter­
woven with a dill finer tiffue than any other in the
tender part formed by branches of the fifth pair of
nerves, connected with others placed in the deep-
eft recefTes of the brain, and furface of the head,—
the whole being united with thofe muffles of the
# It is neceflary to make a diitindtion between a French and an
Engliih kifs, in order to clear up the point of argument beyond difpute;
for as, in France, a modeft lady would only permit her cheeks to be
touched by a lover, the fenfation would not be fo lively there as in
England, where no idea of indelicacy prevents any fair maid from
proving the juftice of afTertions applicable only to falutes of a different
Bature.
+ Un Baifer &L'Anglois. *
. I 3 neck
Digitized by Google
i l è •
’ ¿AVATERr’s 1
neck which are entwined- with the moft refmed
feelings. The nerve that promotes fuch a plèafing
•fenfe as-thrills through every vein has the ftrohgeft
elaftic fprings, aCting in concert with the eighth
clafs, that penetrates the boforo, and affeCts the
•heart ; while others, at the ribs and lower parts,
move in perfect harmony/with them in their reci­
procal impulfe and re-a£iion upon the human frame.
After having thus explained the feries of nervous
conductors, we may conceive how that cleCtric
‘
ftroke is felt and communicated in fuch a manned,
as no language can exprefs in terms fuited to out
ideas. . '
' In another point of view, thofe feats of pleafuri,
which cannot be fo well defcribed as we could'wi(h,
We mean the lips, equally difcover the 'forefight- of
Nature in providing for our daily wants, by;fl#ift&
“
there the tafte that judges the quality of food and
'beverage intended to prolong or Comfort life. ’ : > '
~ From r. chain of. circumftances partly related*
might we not infer, with a degree of reafon, that
all the impreffions on our bodies are at firft merely
local, or confined to a particular fpot, where, 'ac­
cording as they are received by the organs of fenfe,
a nervous ruling power communicates them by fub-
brdiqate ramifications iffuing from the centre, like
fo many different ftreams which branch out-froqi
the fame fpring, with a continued mutual
tourfe to keep.jup an equal flood, except when
a - » then
t
. \ , «
i '
• i . ■
i
Digitized by Google
L o è t f M d - ë f > Â s s . m .
juft fo the human conftitution is agitated by pafJ
lion, the affections of the foul, and diforders of the
Let us, then, conclude, that, from the cradle to
the grave, the happinefs of our lives depends, iit
great meafure, on a well-modelled nervous fyfiem/
—fuch as gives a quick relifli to all the endearment»
of love and friendfhip. But furely we do not pro­
fane thefe words by applying them to thofe pure,
difinterefted fentiments, which produce the generous
facrifice of every perfonal concern to the objects of
our attention. • ' ’ ' ~ ‘ ' *
In whatever light we contemplate the form and
organization''of man, hé appears defigned tolbeV
loud of'the1
whole création1
. What a' glorious work
it was for the Supreme Defigrter to animate a mart
of >olay in fuch a wonderful way, as to ftamp upon
it thought, feeling, and moral character !
• What mortal hand will draw juft outlines of thé
inner fortifications'furroUnding hie head and crownÎ
Can a living creature, a pillar of flefh and bloody
attain to fuch a degree of intellectual powers' aa
alternately reft and ferment ? His head is covered
by the Divinity with comely locks, appearing as if
they were the •trees of a facred foreft ihading a
fanCtuary. Thus we ought to be ftruck with rev<-’’
rential awe pn viewing an object that a glafs of à*
.Warmiiifiaginfctton•cart eâfiiy magnify into a niourf-
I 4 tain,
Digitized by Google
>
'
i
1 2 0 l a v a t e r ’s
tain, flalhed with lightning fufficient to embelliih,
ravage, or deftroy a world!
And in fuch a point of view, how expreflive
is that grove which crowns the brow of a hill
devoted to meditation! ~
• The neck, without exprefling a man’s thoughts,
indicates what he is going to fay, with the freedom,
eafe, and dignity becoming his rank on earth; for
it is a ftrong pillar, that may be confidered as an
emblem of power and dominion.
Whenever this part has its defeats, it is a fign of
weaknefs.
The human countenance is an image of the
Deity, containing the refleftion of his foul.
His forehead is a table of brafs, on which various
fentiments are engraven in indelible characters;
that is, the feat of joy and melancholy, wifdom and
ignorance, honour and fhame, honefty and deceit.
His brows are covered with an arch.like a.rain*
bow,—the iignal of peace when it is at reft; but
its diforder denotes agitations of the mind. This
feature has a peculiar grace when the circle is re­
gularly drawn.
The nofe is a land-mark, like a mountain that
Separates two vallies. -
The eyes appear to be of glafs, confequently
windows for the foul; tranfparent globes, fources
of light and life: their ihape deferves particular at­
tention in forming an idea or likenefs of a perfon,
from
Digitized by ) o g k
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 1 2 1
from the date and lituation of the fockets. Nor
ought we to take lefs notice of thofe parts which
connect the eye-brows with the nofe, where the
damp of the human will, and the iigns of aftive
life, are mod confpicuous.
The noble, deep, and hidden fenfe of hearing is
placed on the fides; and, as a man ought to hear
around for himfelf alone, his ear is plain, without
ornaments, or beautified only by its depth, polifli,
and delicacy.
Upon a part of the face there is a kind of cloud,
that marks ravenous appetite, and an excedive love
of pleafure. The upper lip expredes drongly fuch
leading foibles j for a rakifli life weakens it, pride
and padion bend it, cunning diarpens it, kindnefs
rounds it, love and enjoyments give it an inexpref-
fible charm. -
A fine row of teeth is likewife a defirable per-
feftion. A pure mouth is, in every fenfe, a recom­
mendation of the whole perfon; and. like a beau­
tiful porch-door that correfponds with a palace for
the voice, which we may call the orator of the
heart and foul, fince it communicates the language
of the mod tender fentiments.
The under lip begins to form the chin, and the
jaw-bone compleats the ellipfis or oval form of the
vifage, as a key-done of the vault in the noble ftruc-
ture delineated. This part, according to Grecian
models, ought to taper infenfibly.
' But
Digitized by Google
" >
¡Jet •as^eTcilptiortsfof'this land felclom afford
li&vilffy 'ftiffitiently agreeable to the bulk of plain
folks* howover !difpofed -they tftay be to reflett
tipo#nh©it*jourriey through- Hfdj if we cannot ftrew*
over with flowers the little way that the gentle
reader has to p&fe With us,- let -him fmile, at leaft,
ivftouftehdjeaVoOMito^keep tip a flow of fpirits, by
ftefevfcingdft-poetry that enlivening effe£t of elec*
ttodltyi-r^th^ftrGrfg fenfation which forms the chief
fubjeft of this Eflfay. Nor need we rove in fancy
tb France or Italy in fearch of as lively a fcene as
ever Titian drew.- :
i’- 1. ' > . »
: .. - , . O N .IN N O C E N T K ISSE S.
r in mertry days of youth my heart would yield
T o Beauty, when Diana took the field;
In rural innocence to ran a race,
Or ihare the toils and plealures of the ehace ..
With growing Nymphs, from whom I chofe the beft,
‘ v' i.ike'Venus, fmiling hi the ftreain undreft ;
1 4Fbr ^fter huriting it was then the mode
For |irH and toy* toba^he befide the road.
-.. j delifehttyasp ployil^ oip^hq flute,
. „ f Far from thofe fcenes where Bacchus jgfows a brute ;
Proud as my loyal friend of Orange-grove, ,
I thought no treafure equal to my love :
• ; * Fearful I gazM, in filenteV iilte a Jbol
‘ i*? . W ho ^iaw*the-Dee embj-aoingf Bala P o o l;
. :' •: Blit, bprp 'ft tfard^' w^pfo ibjul| enjoy’d the fight,
i : I fjpr ftmmr thus, with hopes, till night
Bathe orii my Parpela, the clock ftrikes five,
T o quiekeft fenfe of feeling he alive; 1
- ^ Conceal
ISa •<2AAV£T.Sfc,9 >l
Digitized by Google
LOÔlÊINÔ-GtÀSS
Conceal thy beauties in the grateful flood, \, .
Enough thofe ruby lips inflame my blood,
Bleft with thy fmiles, admiring every grace,
A painter longs tf ^raiw thy bloojnmg face $ *
T hy frefh complexion, dimples, and the rofe
That gives el§6hic kifle$, wjrile he glows , . v
.
W ith zefcfto paint,1as Adam painted Eve,> - . *
When Parfon Poolfe (hall blefs arid give us leavej
For, faid a Monarch of immortal name,
One Kifs is worth a thoufand years in fam e!
' '
‘ ; . . , •.................. j *,;. •!
' ' " . • • ' **•'' c"
. .. <
7 :*j (*
■
? ,
> t ' • ' ' >V/U ' i - . i r i
m
E S S A t
> *
Digitized by Google
124 I. AV A T E K ’l
ESSAY XVI.
Upon Phyjiognomy, and the Study of
with R
u
l
e
s
, Sic.
BEFORE we lay down the principles of this
fcience, it becomes us to draw a line of diftinCtion
between differences in particular limbs and fea­
tures, and that general uniformity which is viiible
through the whole creation.
Nature not only draws, but executes, all her de-
iigns upon an univerfal fcale, where every ray of
glory is pointed towards a common center. The
heart beats with the fame fpark of life that moves
the finger; the fame Divine Power modelled the
fkull and the nails. Art differs by only matching
pieces of works defigned by human genius.
But in the great and marvellous mould every
creature feems to have been call at once: all the parts
are compaCt; the flock rifes into a ftalk that pro­
duces branches bearing fruit and flowers, the whole
being united, down to the roots of the tree.
Yet, notwithftanding their clofe union, the pro­
duction of one branch, A, cannot be faid to grow
upon another, B ; much lefs does it belong to a
different
Digitized by Google
L O O I C I N G - G L A S S . 125
different vegetable, for it contains only the quality
originally afligned.
Thus one man’s finger would not fuit another’s
hand, for every particle in his frame is exaCtly
matched to the whole} nor does the blood at his
toes differ from the fluid that animates his bofom:
the nerves and bones are equally proportioned to
fit only an individual feparately confidered j fo that,
from a limb or joint, we may afcertain the juft
raeafure of other principal parts. If his head be
oval, the whole takes the fame formj if it be round
or fquare, the reft partakes of fuch a diftinguifhing,
but uniform, appearance in root and branch; nor
can the fmalleft particles be taken away, or added,
without deranging the regular fyftem. This fym-
metry is peculiar to every rational creature in his
ftruCture, complexion, hair, veins, voice, gait, man­
ners, and paflions; but with thefe peculiarities he
has full fcope for his mental powers and feelings,
without being able to overleap the bounds afligned
by Providence.
It mull, however, be granted, notwithftanding
the permanent general famenefs, that every coun­
tenance is conftantly fubjeft to fuch changes as are
merely perfonal in a particular character j but ftill
a man can only change himfelf, or a motion, in a
ftyle that is all his own; for affectation or imitation
may be diftinguifhed from originality.
Lavater
Digitized by Google
.zi LA»****** ??
• Layater. faysj that he blùfhès for’the age'he ltòd*
in ; being under the neceifity of difcuflmg niatters
felf-èvident,às Iff-tthihcconviCtion when they come
to be viewed-fwithMhei clear .light of Reafori, at*
thbughl tlséjt Mtei'béen'. ftr^ngely argued by pr«*.
tencDed?philofophersv ' ‘ '1 ' - :
Nature forms all creatures perfeft, in a mould
where nothing feems to haveibeeifcaft in feparate
pieces,; tabe. gradually matched^ withi each.other* ‘
as aumohal.Idulptar would do*before'he '.could imb-
tate^ireany degree, the heft'models.i.'tiffhis truth is
thehi’vifible all over the univerfe, 'from’man down
tO'thértlawefi: plant ; nor ihould we compare with
eitìiérr tbe.molt beautiful Mofaic work, without
feelinghiow ineffe£lual our efforts would be to copy
futhrirpariginal. : : . i
-A « an introduction to the knowfedgoof featuresi
itfisiindifpenfable to ftudy the Order and hirmony of
th&<v.hffgé ia all .ite tjofnpaiinnf paatfs,-. fo far as td
comprehend and fee, at; oneoviBw* ^11 the,,dittisi.,
guiihing.natural lines which ,differ from the; èffe®
pf art,.feftr»ht^ of'diiTur^ilation ; norcniuftla ftudfent •
defpair of .mdkiflg^à^fuccefsful pragferfs, whenevér
he can djfcem ek«ryakifìd’Of fuch original dittine*
tions ad feltriva'fttikingicontraft with fuperfìcial ,ap»
pearances, acquiredtiy ¡thinking, habit, and educa»
tion ; for, whatever piolifli1
may be defined.Frbnl'thefè ^
circumftances, a-map/s fcrahfi iitjfrbe^ifeéiiijthfough
the natural veil (the body), independent of fuch
gradual.
D . , ' y
G oogle
LOOK:iirc>Ai>Ass.
gradual or cafual alterationsaq went pot' formed by
the great Creative hand. . .
By continually: compaasin^inotes within ourfelves,
or.reaping, the fruit :<
afdaily ^peffeot'eTin'the circle
of our friends* and looking, wiih.peDetratiag byo$
at theirJiaeanaents, .'not only qs imprefied with pad
lives, but:a(ieording as ,we have known them, with}
out difguife, from an early period, we may be able
to afcertain the diftinltion betwixt the natural damp
and their acquired air. It is then only that we fliall
fee qualified to judge how much thofe outward Ggni
correfpond with the moil fecret inclinations, fined
every deviation from the paths of Virtue will leave
a track behind. A courfe. of exceffes or iniquity
disfigures a man, and degrades him in his own
eftimation, as well as in the world’s eye, which he
conftantly avoids; for, being grow nugly, or fcarcely
known to his neighbours, he dares not look then»
full in the face. „ .
Such iludies as thefe (hould be accompanied with
varied obfervations and continual demonftrations in
all the walks of life, in feenes of bufinefs and plea«
fare, as well as in the haunts of indolence and dif-
fipation. . ‘ ‘
. Thus piercing eyes would become familiarized
with what might be called merely controlled o®
profcffional looksy while the judgment was exercif-;
ed in forming a ilandavd of opinions, upon exampleb
■. ............... _ co«e£pe»&
<..... ’*
aanr
Digitized by Google
correfponding with precepts and the fruits of re-
flettion.
In no profelfion could an error be fo fatal, as in
pronouncing ralhly upon a man’s chara&er and
good name from his leading features, according as
they ftrike a ftranger, who had no better criterion
for his determination of this point. A falfe prin­
ciple in our refearches might, therefore, be produc­
tive of bad confequences to fociety.
A few fafe rules may, however, be drawn from
long contemplation, confident with a train of
thoughts, partly fuggefted by Lavater.
On this occafion we addrefs, particularly, the
riling generation, under an idea that youth mult
feel it a delightful talk to trace the marks of ideas,
according as they Ihoot, with the different degrees
of fympathy and antipathy felt even by children at
an early age. Such feelings for and againft Gran­
gers, at firft fight, muft not, however, be confound­
ed with imprellions of beauty or deformity, and
notions conceived from a previous acquaintance,
affe&ion, or prejudice.
Nor are our wifhes for fuccefs at any game be­
tween two unknown players determined by con-
fiderations of rank and fortune when we have no
intereft at ftake, efpecially if both their perfons ap­
pear equally amiable j but their fouls are not fo to
the mind’s eye, and that inward monitor which
direfts our caprice and fellow-feelings.
Indeed,
128 l a v a t e r ’s
♦
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G -G L A S S . 129
Indeed, the ftudy of human features is vvhat we
fell apply to, more or lefs, without forming a regular
fyftem from our obfervations, for the purpofe of ac-
compliihing the grand object in view, which is to
trace effefts to their caufes by the lines and move­
ments of the face, fo far as to know and diitinguifli
the different qualities of the heart and mind, to­
gether with their true refpeftive figns, as applicable
to all cafes and fituations: in ihort, it is learning to
read the moft effential pages in the great book and
language of Nature.
In this career a pupil ihould aft like a prudent
architeft, who draws the plan of an edifice, and
makes an eftimate of the expences, before he begins
to execute it, without knowing whether the means
correfpond with his defign. In like manner
I.avater's difciples, and our’s, ought to feel their
own zeal, faith, and faculties, equal to the objefts
which we wiih them to attain from the following
leffons on this important fubjeft. .
Iff. In the firft place we muft examine carefully
every fubftance inherent in the human fpecies, and
what diftinguiihes our flefh and blood from brutes
and the vegetable creation, in order to feel an ade­
quate idea of our own importance in the fcale of
beings.
2dly. We muft afterwards take not only each limb
and feature, but their harmony connefted with the
whole, as objefts to be feparately ftudied; nor
K ihould
Digitized by Google
1 3 0 l a v a t e r ’s
ihould our knowledge of proportions be acquired
only from books, but praCtice; in meafuring them
under the eyes of able mailers, who will point
out the caufe of fo many imperfeCt defigns, and con-
fequently falfe eflimates of Nature’s works, founded
on an old-itanding negleCt of difcriminating be­
tween ffraight and crooked lines.
When all parts of the vifage and body are har­
monized with perpendicular lines, not only-beauty,
but even found fenfe, a dignified character, and
other qualities, are generally found to correfpond
with this fymmetry, or any other that may be ob-
ferved in an oppofite direction. .
3dly. The particular figns and characters {tamped
upon the face are to be no lefs attentively confi-
dered.
In drawing faces, a Painter and Phyfiognomift
ihould begin with fuch as have ftriking traits, pe­
culiar to judges or philofophers, as well as to idiots
and men of feeling, or others of a quite different
defcription.
Such a character muft be thoroughly ftudied in
all points of view, juft as if we were to draw his
picture from the life, to be conftantly compared
with the living original. Not only the ftature, but
every part of fuch a perfon, muft be well examined,
juft as if the meafure of the whole proportions were
to be taken by perpendicular and horizontal lines,
4 fo
■ Digitized by Google
LOO KING-GLASS« 131
fo far as to determine the relative fymmetry of his
leading features;—the forehead, nofe, mouth, chin,
and particularly the form, colour, fize, depth, and
turn of his eyes.
In examining a vifage in a forward view, the firft
confideration is, whether it be round, oval, fquare,
triangular, or refembling, more or lefs, one of the
following forms of mod, if not all, human faces,
viz.—
In, the next place, we mud compare a profile of
the fame face with half of either of thefe models,
before afcertaining the perpendicular length of the
three ordinary fe&ions,—the forehead, nofe, and
chin, upwards and downwards, with their refpec-
tive bearings, or fymmetrical proportions.
This operation is ealily performed by an ideal
line drawn from the deepeft point or root of the
nofe down to the tip of the upper lip; by which
means their proportions are difcovered in three
ways,—for their perpendicular form up and down,
their fuperficial, and inward dire&ion, above and
below.
K 2 This
Digitized by Google
132 l a v a t è r ’s
This appears to be the only method of fixing
fundamental principle for acquiring the theory and
improving the praftice of phvfiology, according to
the rules adopted by the belt painters in their pro-
fefilon. After a juft impreffion of thefe traits, the
forehead, the eye-brows, the nofe, and intervening
fpace, ought to attraft equally the ftudent’s atten­
tion ; particularly that ftriking angle which is'form-
ed by the tip of the nofe and upper lip* either
ftraight, fiat, or pointed, with fuch a difference in
the length on the fides as will not efcape ’his
notice. .
Seen Tideways, the mouth ftrikes us only in three:
principal forms; either the upper lip paffes over the
under one, or the latter pouts up, or both when
clofed are equal on a parallel line.
A right defcript,un of the chin admits of the
fame diftinftions; it is either perpendicular, a peak,
or Hoping inwards: the bottom will form an hori­
zontal line more or lefs ftraight. The bent in the
jaw-bone deferves the clofeft obfervation, as it in­
dicates different qualities of the mind.
On this occafion the great Profeffor Lavater
fays, that ofteology, or the fyftem of the bones,
were it properly ftudied, would produce fuch dif-
coveries as he points out, by afferting that an able
blind-folded Phyfiognomift might find out, in great
meafure, a chara£ter that had bid defiance to all
- refearches,
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 133
refearches, merely by handling properly his jaw­
bone.
' Certain it is, however, that this fingle part, well
itudied in profile, has ferved as a clue for unfolding
extraordinary faculties in fome individuals, whofe
other features were not fufficiently expreflive, nor
proportioned to their mental power. Painters and
defigners cannot, therefore, take too much pains
in reprefenting this fingular feature in the moft
prominent light of which it is fufceptible. Thus
they will do credit to the ufeful arts that they pro-
fefs, in copying Nature, and reviving the objects of
our love, refpeft, and veneration.
In regard to the eye, we muft firft meafure its
diftance from the radical part of the nofe, and then
examine its fize and colour, together with the out­
lines and compafs of the eye-lids. Thus a coun­
tenance becomes an objeft of ftudy, juft as if every
line in it were but a part of a poem to be learned by
heart.
In like manner, a poet would caft a glance over
'a favourite compofition, run over the chief divifions,
and imprefs on his memory the arrangement of the
whole, fo as foon to be able to repeat every verfe,
by confuliing occafionally the book that he acV
mired.
When this fundamental Phyfiognomical know­
ledge is acquired, by ftudying the face of an ec­
centric genius, a ftrong refemblan,ce of it fhoutd be
K 3 . *looked
Digitized by Google
134 l a v a t e r ’s
looked for in all the pupil’s walks, until he found
one that correfponded exactly with the living ob-
je£t of his ftudies.
This likenefs will be feen beft in the foreheads j
for if they are alike there, the other parts will
doubtlefs prove their uniform affinity.
The great fecret of a Phyfiognomift is, to abftraCt
and view feparately thofe leading features of which
he ihould watch every motion and direction, as it
each were placed by itfelf, unconnected with •
others.
Upon finding out a perfeCt walking copy of the
original ftudied, the fame courfe of obfervations
upon it ought to be followed, even by fitting into
the perfonal chara£ter of that man, compared with
the other, efpecially with regard to the moft ftrik-
ing figns, and thofe flight (hades of difference be­
tween them both in every fenfe.
If upon this comparifon they refernbled each
other in all refpeCts perfectly, their exterior appear­
ance would prove the conformity of minds and in­
tellects ; nor ought this opinion to be controverted,
until two men fo defcribed were brought together,
each poffeffing a different turn of mind from the
other, notwithstanding their fame remarkable faces.
In order to prove or contradict that affertion, we
ihould watch the unguarded moment when they
difplay their real difpofitions and characters with­
out difguife: if then the line of diftinCtion caufed
.
t
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S , J 3 5
by the moving mufcles correfponded in both thefe
perfons, the conformity of their chara&ers would
be manifeft beyond difpute.
Thus, were fuch an uncommon feature difcovered
in any lingular man, as to be noticed again only in
the countenance of an illuftrious character, this dif-
tinguilhing mark might be>fafely propounced as the
fureft criterion by which we could judge and find
out any ihade of difference.
This idea may be belt cleared up by mentioning
a cafe in point.
Befide many traits which the great Haller had
in common with other enlightened beings, he was
' diftinguiihed by what might be called a ray of
literary glory, or a circle under his lower eye-lid,
and fuch as had never been noticed in any other
mortal.
Confequently that trait has not yet been under-
itood; but were it difcovered in any other indivi­
dual, there would be full fcope for enquiring whe­
ther his genius was like s in any refpe£t.
At all events, were two faces found with a fimilar
honourable ftamp, we might take pride in having
difcovered a new letter qf the Phyliographical al­
phabet. ■
It is, neverthelefs, within the limits of probabi­
lity, that fo celebrated a writer may have polfeifed
particular foibles, expreffed by that particular mark;
nor is it impolhble that the weakeft man may be
K 4 marked
Digitized by Google
l.?6 l a v a t e r ’s
marked like him, without that fuperior undemand­
ing, of which we fuppofe that Swifs author bore
the fignificant impreffion.
In the mean time, it is prudent to fufpend our
judgment upon thefe fpeculative notions.
In the choice of objects for ftudying this fcience
of leading faces, we cannot take too much notice
of original and eccentric charafters, extremes of
vice and virtue, kindnefs and brutality, flaviih ig­
norance oppofed to the heavenly gift of poetry,
generofity and felfiihnefs, for the purpofe of furniih-
ing contrails, as conftant fubje£ts of contemplation j
nor ought we to lofe fight of thofe iituations where
man is reduced to the molt abjeft date of mifery.
With this view we might vifit the receptacles of
lunatics; trace the caufes of their infanity, and ob-
ferve every ihade that diftinguiihes love, melan­
choly, rage, or difappointment, according as it
breaks out, unreltrained by reafon and habits of
focial life. .
In fcenes like thefe the nervous fyftem is difplay-
ed without art or diflimulation ; all the tender firings
of feeling are differently affected, and accompanied
with peculiarly natural imprelfions.
Nor ought a Phyiiognomiit to be lefs anxious to
mingle with the molt enlightened, down to the
leal! polillied focieties, in order to compare accu­
rately the lovveit degree of fenfe bordering upon
inflinct, with that fuperior underitanding, which
would
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 1 3 7
would be feen brilliant, juft as light is valued when
we come out of darknefs.
But fhould it appear too difficult a talk to purfue
a plan of ftudies on a large fcale, comprehending
all parts of the vifage, there are two important
lines to be followed, invariably, by thofe who wiih
to unfold every place in animated fluff, marked
with a flit in the mouth, and a line drawn by the
upper lid upon the eye-ball; for thefe lineaments
prefent an abftra£t or abridgement of a man’s face,
with a key that the a£live fpirit of curiofity might
employ in lifting into the myfteries of our exiftence,
and decyphering fuch a fecret correfpondence of
the foul as exhibits a participation of the Divine
effence. .
The belt painters have often neglected thofe traits
which defy an inexperienced eye, by their foft, de­
licate, and moveable fubftance; but they are belt
diftinguilhed in profile. If, however, imitative art
cannot feize them, let the Phyliognomift read over
carefully the fine and ealier paffage from the fore­
head down to the mouth, before he tranfcribes it
on his mind or paper. Thofe double features, taken
alternately from either fide of the face, will furnilh
a long exercife for a pupil, who muft feel, as he
draws, their perfeft equality.
His progrefs would not be flopped, were he, for
fome time, to amufe himfelf with drawing or ftu-
dving nothing elfe but the compafs of the upper
eye-
Digitized by Google
138 l a v a t e r ’s
eye-lid, and the orifice of the mouth, together with
the order and arrangement of every line.
The other lineaments might be juftly reprefented
by ihadows, or f
i
l
h
o
u
e
t
l
e
s,fo far as to be feparately
drawn, ftudied, and examined/ with mathematical
precifion. ,
Although thefe leading features are the moft ef-
fential, others deferve particular notice ; for no part
ought to be flighted, as connected with the whole,
imprefled with a man’s character, and proving the
moil perfefl fymmetry in the workmanihip of the
Supreme defigner, whofe glorious works were call
in one mould, unlike unfiniihed mailer-pieces of
art. Thus every kind of eyes is found to be match­
ed with correfponding ears, front, and hair, accord­
ing to the wifeft order of things.
Frequently a negle£ted part of a book ferves to
clear up obfcure paflages; fo the flighted: line may
ferve to unravel a whole fet of features and com­
plexion. Juft as an overture conveys to a cultivat­
ed ear the ground-work of an opera, fo we mult
confider every part of the body as an important
link of the chain that unites the -perfefl human
figure ; the whole being juftly compared to a con­
cert of mufic, where not the leaft note muft be
omitted to preferve the harmony defigned.
In the purfuit of thefe Audios the pupil -ihould
be humoured in following his inclinations for the
favourite obje£l of his refearches juft as it ftrikes
him;
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 1S9
him j becaufe a paffion for any branch of knowledge
produces the greateft proficiency conducive to ge­
neral improvements in liberal arts and profeffions.
The art of drawing profiles, or ihadows, cannot
be too ftrongly recommended to a young Phyfiog-
nomift, as one of the belt methods of acquiring a
juft idea of charaCteriftical outlines to be drawn
exactly for his models.
As this exactitude depends on the manner of
forming thefe (ketches from the reflection of a face,
always weak upon paper, a folar microfcope is
ufed to remedy the defeat, while the head to be
drawn is placed, free and eafy, as clofe to the wall
as poifible.
For this purpofe, a board, hollow below, is
placed upon the (houlder, four feet five to feven
inches above the ground, and covered with foft
paper fattened and fealed with wax over the
holes in the wood.
Another more convenient method for drawing
(hades is, by means of a mirrour, hollowed l^elow,
and covered with oil-cloth. The (hade is thus
quickly drawn, and when it is taken from the
frame the lines are retouched wherever the reflect­
ed outlines are too weakly imprefled. Then it may
be diminilhed to a miniature, by avoiding to blunt
the edges, or diforder the angles, of this picture.
One of thefe diminutive copies is blackened, and
the feconci is preserved blank, far keepingthe mea-
fure
Digitized by Google
H O LAVATfcR's
fure of the inward cafe. Afterwards the large
fdhouctte is hung up, perpendicularly, to ferve as
a model for the fmaller profile. -
It is by the frequent praCtice of defigning, ac­
companied with remarks and companions drawn
from the Lavaterian fchool, that a gradual improve­
ment may be made by any youth qualified and difr
pofed to excel, while at every dep he feels convinc­
ed how much the flighteit deviation turns a portrait
into a caricature.
When a collection of fuch profiles is procured of
well-drawn characters, they fhould be claffed under
proper heads; but the line of didinCtiori between
them mud not be formed by refpeCt for intellectual
powers, or moral qualities, but wholly from a view
of Phyfiognomical analogy ; for, whatever traits may
characterize men for their talents and virtues, there
is fuch an infinite variety of excellence and imper­
fections under general denominations, that we are
warranted in prefuming a proportioned unlikenefs
of their outward Significant Signs of merit. Conse­
quently it would be the greated abfurdity to clafs
together two heads of men of genius, merely be-
caufe they were of that defcription, without any
other refemblance, as a ground of expectation for
finding them alike; for, probably, they would not
refemble in the lead, or form a perfeCt contrad to,
each other.
But
Digitized by Google
H l
But in the arrangement of profiles propofed, the
forehead ought to form that diftinguifhing feature,
according to which their various clafles might be
juiHy fixed. Then were two foreheads to prefent
a ftriking likenefs, there would be a foundation to
fuppofe a.degree of conformity in the fouls which
animated any two bodies with fuch peculiarities as
might appear from the correfponding curve and
angle, which could be meafured exaftly, upon the
large ihadow, from the top of the head down to
that invifible line which paffes acrofs the crown to
the root of the nofe and eye-brows.
The refolt of fuch obfervations will be a convic­
tion that fimilar outlines of the head are attended
with an equal conformity of faculties, and a like
way of feeing, thinking, and feeling. It will like-
Wife be found, that, as every part of the globe has
its diflin£l latitude and climate, fo all faces and
foreheads are fhaped in a manner calculated for
their height and degree of mental capacity.
Such remarks as thefe admit of improvements,
from a particular alphabet to be compofed for the
regifter and claffmg of foreheads; fo that any one
might be diftinguifhed, at firft fight, by a letter ex*
preffing its clafs, together with its generical and
particular name.
Our great matter (L a va tcr) has promifed us a
Treatife on this fubjefr, that ihall comprize every
different form of foreheads. In the mean time, he
advifes
L O O K I N G - G L A S S .
Digitized by Google
142
advifes every ftudent to compofe a fcale of them,for
his own ufe, perfectly regular, and founded on in­
variable mathematical rules.
It is alfo a matter of importance to know what
characters are moll truly reprefented by ihades,
and appear in their true light. We (hall find that
lively people are drawn fo in a more faithful man­
ner than thofe who are mere paflive and feeling •
beings. '
Moreover, in learning to read faces, it ihould be
the iludent’s delight to draw profiles in all ways
from Nature, trufting to his memory, fometimes,
fo far as to add an eye, a mouth, or another fea­
ture, wanted to turn them into full faces; as he
might do, for paltime or inltruCtion, while he fifted
into the meaning of thofe pofitive figns which he
ftrove to copy, in various points of view, as a fund
for his experiments. -
He would, likewife, derive equal pleafure and
advantage from a repetition of his eflays to analyfe
the moil impenetrable or unintelligible vifage, by fe-
parating every feature from the complicated mafs.
The bafe of that frontifpiece of furprifing archi­
tecture contains the fum-total of the outlines cen­
tering in the ikull, and all the ramifications darting
from the crown of the head. Upon this principle,
experience proves what reafon ihews,—that this
fundamental line in a hearty man exprefles the
degree of his capacity and perfeClion.
From
tAVATER*5 .
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 143
From this contour an able Phyfiognomift might
alfo judge of the general chara&ers of a crowd,
and, therefore, it cannot be too frequently drawn,
meafured, and obferved in every poffible light; for
it efcapes the firft glance; but habit will render it
more perceptible in proper fubjefts. For inftance;
in a Roman Catholic church, when priefts Hoop
with their bald crowns, interefting remarks might
be made on their bare upper circle; for fo much
does this part differ in a multitude, that a profeifor
of Phyfiognomy, like Lavater, would diflinguifh by,
it the various defcriptions of people affembled at
his door.
Indeed, it is not eafy to obferve young men well,
while they are awake and, feelingly alive in the
buftle of bufinefs.
For that reafon, they ought to be watched in thofe
unguarded hours of fleep, when they, particularly
children, betray by their attitudes the harmony of
the body, face, (kin, and limbs.
Even the manfions of the dead might be vifited,
becaufe their faces acquire, in eternal reft, fuch an
expreflive compofure as is not perceptible in any
other fituation, nor till they have ceafed to breathe.
A man is more or lefs ftrained or diilorted with
the agitations of this world; but in his coffin, if
unchanged by violent convulfions, he becomes a
fit fubjeft for ftudents of Phyfiognomy, who exercife
no imaginary cruelty.
Digitized by Google
144 l a v a te r ’s
They ihould alfo retrace their defigns in making
comparative remarks upon ancient ftatues, or at
leaft on moulded figures, which might be copied
in different ways, and compared with their own
fketches drawn from life.
After having thus improved in the art of taking
o ff the folid parts and ftriking differences between
models and copies, their next amufement might be
to fet up the buff of Locke, or Newton, to exhibit
a contrail to another of an idiot, while they mea*
fured, copied, and confidered both attentively j and
if then, from their feelings, they knew themfelves
to be judges of faces, their faith in this fcience
would be a fure omen of greater advancement.
But they would make a ftill quicker progrefs,
ihould the idea in contemplation be realized of
making a frontom etre (an inftrument for meafur-
ing the front, or forehead), in order to diftinguifh,
at one view, thofe collateral features which are the
true figns of lively, bafe, dull, and elevated minds.
Nor would it be a matter of unpleafant confe-
quence to perform exercifes, or read lefitures, upon
the ikulls of deceafed eminent perfonages, drawn
in ihadows or profiles, and placed in a row,
where their triangular form would exhibit a ftriking
obje£t of meditation ; but, as either refpeft for the
aihes of our anceftors, or falfe delicacy, forbids re-
fearches beyond the grave, we advife our difciples
to be very referved in their conduct and difcourfe,
until
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 145
until they (hall have found their judgement, in
matters of this nature, confirmed by evidence and
a train of concurring circumftances. Thus di­
veiling themfelves of vanity, beginners ought only
to try their Hull at a proper time and place, with
oqual diffidence and moderation, if they wifli to
render Phyfiology one of the moil ufeful, pleafant,
and honourable fciences.
Another important refource is to be found in
thofe ancient and modern medals which exhibit a
curious variety of countenances, and difplay the
caprice of Nature, with an uniformity, however, of
virtues or imperfe£tions.
. A good Phyfiognomifl ought to be a thinking
man, independent in fpirit, rich in ideas, and able
to .exprefs them in the principal languages of
Europe; nay, he ihould even be qualified to com-
pofe a new di£lionary of words and technical terms
fuited to his profeffion. Thus he might keep a
regiiler of extraordinary vifages, duly clafled and
fpecified, according to the moil approved fyitems j
nor ought he to be at a lofs to diitinguiih, at once,
the different degrees of paflions, affe£lions} reli­
gious, national, and profeifional looks.
But, before attempting to give names to fenfa-
tions, fymptoms, and appearances, he ought to be
capable of reprefenting them juftly with his pen
and his pencil.
JL
. A know-
Digitized by Google
146 l a v a t e r ’s
A knowledge of more than one foreign language
is of the utmoft importance for opening a commu­
nication with thofe abfent or departed fpirits, whofe
congenial thoughts pave the way to trace a fyftem
equally calculated for information and entertain­
ment. It is true, that many plain folks either do
not believe, or affe£t to ridicule, the fabric of opi­
nions defigned for thofe falutary ends; but, as they
pafs along the crowded walks of both fexes, let us
appeal to their feelings, in order to know whether
they are not alternately imprefled with love, re­
verence, admiration, envy, flight, and indifference.
If fo, it is evident that they fee, read, and try to
decypher the type of Phyfiography on every refle£t-
ing mirror that they meet. Will it, then, be denied
that fuch learning is moft excellent ?
He is a falfe critic who praifes or condemns a book
of which he has feen no more than the print, or
binding. A painter, however, draws the foldier,
juftly, with all his accoutrements and military airs.
But the Phyfiographer muft defpair of drawing
faithful pi£tures while he is biafled by partiality
arifing from the confideration of birth, wealth, and
power, or prejudiced by a fudden reverfe of fortune,
borne with humility, fortitude, and refignation. *
Alift,
* As examples are better than precepts, we may eafily fuppofe a
cafe in p o i n t W e hear of two men fuffering the fame fate in a dif'
ferent
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S .
A lift, already procured, of four hundred differ­
ing human heads might be gradually increafed by
fuch
H 7
ferent manner.------A venerable elder of the land, after having lived
in affluence, is brought down, by an a¿1 of arbitrary government,
with his gray hairs in forrow to the grave! We may obferve him
Wearing apace----------
Half bent wirB worldly cares he moves along ;
His brows are overcaft, his vifage low’rs,
W hile heavily in tears his eyes look down
T o fhun the flightful pity of a friend,
W ho us’d to (hare his hofpitable houfe,
But feels no reverence for age oppreis’d
By war, the fcourge of nations, and his b a n e *
N ay, all Lavater fees at once denotes
A fpeedy diffolution with the caufe,------
The plague incurable —------A broken heart!
But under fimilar circumftances the companion of his youth is feen
to weather the fame ftorm with a feiene countenance, looking up to
Heaven, enjoying life as it pafles, with fpirits becoming a rational
creature.
Whence, then, arifes fuch a difference in feeling and difcovering
their fecret emotions, if we imagine them both well born and bred in
Wales, endowed with equal qualities of the head and heart, and
victims to pride, deceit, or ingratitude? A comparifon of their
figures will folve this queftion. We {hall find them poifeifing a de­
gree of conilitutional ilrength, a fiame of body, a nervous fyfiem,
with a ,fet of features and complexion correfponding with the greater
and lefler vigour of mind difplayed on thofe occafions, under the vicif-
fitudes of fortune; or the primitive, permanent, and Phyfiographical
(lamp on each of them will be found to tally with the refpe&ive de­
L 2 grees
Digitized by Google
148 l a v a t e r ’s
fuch companions as we recommend to be made, in
various ranks and iituations of life, in order to atT
tain what we may juftly call a quick fixth fenfe of
comprehending with half an eye the fecret iign
peculiar to each ftation, trade, country, tafte, reli­
gion, wit, raillery, comedy and tragedy, in every
real fcene that we witnefs on this ftage of life.
In ftudying a vifage, painted or engraven, when
its proper title is found, the contour of the head
ihould be copied exaftly, at leaft on a rapid {ketch ;
but if a ftriking objeft could not be. penetrated by
a fuperficial look, a negative quality w
T
ould furniih
an index, by comparing it with other clafles, until
either a refemblance or its peculiar originality was
afcertained.
The more difficulty there was in difcovering any
clafs to which fuch a new face belonged or re-
fembled, fo much the greater right would the
ftudent have to call it an original that promifed
him freih difcoveri.es. Nature has formed mankind
in the fame perfeft mould, without deviating from
her juft proportions any more than a ftraight line,
- grees exhibited of fenfibility. The refpe&able and cenforious part
of the community ought, therefore, to be on their guard in judging
. their neighbours by mere appearances, without attributing to infen-
fibility or improper aflurance the bold looks of a man, who, under a
eloud, dares to read the faces of his fuperiors in riches,— his equals
only in honeft pride and integrity.
notwith-
D i by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 1 19
hotwithftanding an infinite variety of forms and
complexions. Thus every individual whofe figure
differed, upon the whole, from that general ftand-
ard, would be a monfter, unlefs fuch a difference
proceeded from accident. On the other hand, ac­
cording as a human figure is found proportioned to
Nature’s rule, fo muft we call it perfeft in the fame
degree.
A deformed outfide may cover the ftrongeft fa­
culties,—juft as Genius and Virtue are often con­
cealed in a mean cottage j yet, fince there are
houfes unfit to receive human creatures, we like-
wife find fuch forms as are not calculated for the
reception of fhining talents and noble fentiments.
Confequently we ought ftudioufly to enquire into
what kind of temporary dwelling is beft adapted to
fuperior beings on earth, while we view with pity
the inferior rank of other difproportioned frames,
which ftill admit the greateft powers of the mind
and goodnefs of heart, to be difplayed with fo much
the greater energy from the confined accommodation
given to thefe qualities.
When a leading feature of the face is expreflive,
the companion to it will be found equally figni-
ficant; for both are formed agreeable to the fame
wife fyftem. ,
There is nothing without a caufe, or all things
muft be attributed to general caufes.
L 3 Whoever
Digitized by Google
150 l a v a t e r ’s
Whoever doubts this principle need give himfelf
no further pains to learn Phyfiology. .
• The handfomeft face is liable to be injured, and
,the uglieft will admit of embeilifliments; while
neither lofes by thefe changes that primitive ftamp -
by which it was firft diliinguifhed.
While a promifing youth fiudies thofe variations,
for the better or worfe, let him connect the idea of
a good aftion with an ugly countenance, and con­
ceive beauty fpoiled by vice.
The moil expreffive traits indicate ftrong facul­
ties ; but the want of fuch outward figns afford no
proofs of weaknefs. -
Whenever a very difproportioned vifage comes
in our way, we fhould perufe every line in it care­
fully, efpecially if we could match it with another
of an oppofite defcription, fo as to furnifh at once
the two extremes of perfeflion and deformity,
which would be a pleafing fight to a curious
Phyfiognomift, who might then trufi to the firft
impreffions that they made on his mind, rather than
to his own obfervations on fo ill-matched a couple j
yet, whatever he felt on feeing them together, and
teading over the leffon that fuch contrafted traits
prefented, it would be incumbent on him to trace
his emotions to their pure fource at the fame time j
that, by drawing every feature, form, and mien, he
might appeal to feveral judges, from his own felf-
evidence or confcious knowledge of Nature’s Ian-
guage,
Digitized by )ogk
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 151
guage, expreffed in too plain terms to be mifun-
derftood or called otherwife than infpiration.
In this ftudy there is no remark too trifling to be
made upon the difference of ftature, and other dif-
tin&ions of the human race, peculiar to various
countries and claffes. Nor muft the voice pafs un­
noticed ; for, as the Italians mention it in their de-
fcription of a perfon in paffports, fo ought we to
diftinguifh a fweet or harih found, in order to dif-
cover what particular voices are fuited to particular
heads, difpofitions, and characters.
Every Phyfiognomy has its own peculiar expref-
fion, in addition to general chara&eriftic figns:—
for inftance j all thinkers have not fuch fedate
countenances as clearly announce ferious reflection,
except by knitting their brows; nor even is be­
nevolence expreffed by fome people otherwife than
by a fmile, or a grin, while they mark difpleafure
only by triangular lines in the cheeks, &c.
But, in attending to appearances of fatisfa&ion.
or difcontent, we fhould diftinguifh between natural
and forced, or accidental diftortions.
Accidents have been reprefented as forming an
infurmountabte bar to the ftudy of Phyfiography;
but furely a child knows natural marks from others,
—as in the fmall-pox, a diforder that fpoils fome
fair faces, without injuring the form. .
Indeed, in fome cafes, a fall has been attended
with mental derangement, but no flriking deformity;
L 4 yet
Digitized by Google
152 LAVAT ER’s
yet the confequent ftate of mind was vifible in the
countenance, and fome change in the body.
On many occafions a man may be known by one
exprefiive chara£teriflic iign at leaft; his leading
features are fufficiently plain to denote his ruling
paflion ; for often the forehead, nofe, lips, and eyes
alone, or well-afiorted with other traits, exprefs
either folidity or inconftancy, vivacity or coldnefs,
fagacity or ftupidity, love or hatred. /
But, as we have before obferved, every trial of
ikill in penetrating a man’s chara£ter ought to be
attended with continual examinations of the moft
diminutive parts of his Phyfiognomy, which muft
be feparately compared with the whole and corref-
ponding appendages, or the moft minute exprefiions
of mother Nature.
In learning early to diftinguiih candour from du­
plicity, a good pupil will be foon enabled to
fee through thofe faces which, like wax, admit
every frefli impreflion; and fince they are fo foft
arid pliable, it muft be lefs difficult for him to foro-
tel the changes incident to them according to cir-
cumftances. In the mean time, he will fay to him-
felf,—That face was formed to wear perpetual
fmiles; and another does not fit fuch a man, as,
from his infancy, has fucked the milk of human
kindnefs.
To this' it might be faid,—The moft quiet man
Uving is fometimes fubjett to fits of paflion, like
another
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S .
another who is continually violent: thus the fame
Phyfiognomy may exprefs, by turns, both anger
and good-nature. But it mult be likewife admit*-
ted, that there are features on which the damp of
thefe oppofite tempers are too deeply impreifed to
be effaced by tranlient imprdlions. . -
In this cafe, the Phyfiognomift will difcern every
kind of natural diftinftion, far different from thofe
eruptions of a moment which leave no trace be­
hind ; for whatever change, for the better or worfe,
may originate from the manner of thinking, habit,
and good or évil communication, a man’s foul is to
be feen through the veil, without the polilh or
brutality received in fociety.
: It is from a perfect harmony hetween the lead­
ing features that concluiions are to be drawn with­
out rifque. If from the form of a mouth, or the
found of a voice, we cannot foretel exactly what a
poet born is going to. fay, it will not be difficult to
form a juft conje£ture refpefting what he would be
capable of expreffing under fuppofed circumftances.
With a view to difcoveries, every interefting
iituation muft be clofely obferved,—fuch as an un-
forefeen meeting, and firft appearance of a ftranger,
or his departure from any circle. -
We ihonld likewife feize thofe moments for Un­
dying faces, when paffion is on the point of break­
ing out into violence, then 'reftrained, and at laft
fuppreffed, by the prefence and influence of a re-
fpe&able
153
Digitized by Google
15* e a V a t e r ’s
fpeftable perfonage. In fuch a (cene, thè united
effects of diffimulation would be feen mingled with
the parting traces of indignation.
In other cafes, a Ample motion proceeding from
tendernefs, grief or rage, zeal or envy, will fuffice
to exhibit an unknown chara&er in a true light ;
nay, we need only fet a perfe£t calm in oppofition
to the ftorm of paffions, in order to judge what any
individual is or is not, and may or may not be­
come at a future period of his life, by comparing
him, at his eafe with himfelf, ruffled by ftrong agi­
tations of mind.
In the courfe of our Phyfiographical ftudies,
ihould we cafually meet with a perfon who pof-
feffed the rare gift of liftening with a tender con­
cern to another’s ftory, from beginning to end, be­
fore fpeaking a word, we ought, furely, to read
every line of his countenance with that intereil
which he infpired j at the fame time that we ad­
mired his eafy manner of anfwering with dignity,
but without affuming any imperious airs of fupe-
riority.
Certainly attention is a iign that denotes not
only goodnefs of heart, and a degree of judgment,
but likewife a great and fteady mind ; for he who
cannot bear patiently to hear others fpeak firft, has
no pretenfions to true merit ; but a man who re­
mains filent till a fit opportunity offers for him to
* deliver
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S .
deliver his fentiments deliberately, may expe£t
fuccefs from his boldeft enterprise.
A punctual plain dealer in bufinefs is no lefs de­
ferring of our notice, while he attends afliduoufly
to one thing at a time. Every motion indicates his
Solid turn; nor is there any fear of mifleading the
riling youth, if we declare that circumfpeftion, in
the fmalleft affairs, is a fure Sign of the fame pru*
dence in matters of the greateft confequence.
If the following traits corresponded with each
other in one face, they would form a model of per-
fe£lion:—
The forehead, nofe, and chin ought to be in a
juft relative proportion.
The front, or upper ftory, of this noble ftru&ure,
(hould be fixed upon a bafe almoft even on an hori­
zontal line, with clofe, full, and ftraightilh eye­
brows.
We might prefer either iky-blue, or fuch darkilh
eyes as appear black at a ihort diftance, with well-
proportioned eye-lids, covering only the fourth or
fifth part of the ball.
A prominent becoming nofe ihould be placed on
what is called a large bridge, equal on the fides,
with a flight bent.
A mouth, elegantly flit, ihould have the upper
lip Hoping downwards to match the lower one, of
equal breadth, adjoining to a round-peaked chin.
Another principal ornament to fuch a head would
be,
1 5 5
Digitized by Google
1 3 6 l a v a t e r ’s
be, ihort auburn or chefnut hair, growing out into
large flowing and natural ringlets.
Such a vifage, with eyes fhut, ought to be ftudied
in five different waysj—in profile, a full face in
front, three-fourths, feven-eighths, and, laftly, in a
perpendicular attitude from the crown downwards
in a direft line.
When the whole Phyfiognomy is prefented to
the obferver at one full view, it diftra&s his atten­
tion by too many objects, which are beft examined
fucceflively on both fides.
A knowledge of drawing is abfolutely neceffary
for the art of reading and copying faces ; but whe­
ther a learner copies from Nature, ffatues, paint­
ings, or engravings, he ought to confine himfelf to
take (ketches, or outlines, in a manner adequate to
the purpofe of diftinguiihing," abftrafting, Amply­
fying, and explaining confufed or intricate fea­
tures.- -
Thofe fine drawings, the celebrated Paflions of
Le Brun, afford fufficient proofs of the neceflity
and utility of this After art as a companion to paint­
ing, and a guide to Phyfiography, although it has
,been neglefted, as much as s fcience, by
feveral ptofeffors.
But, while the ftudy of paintings in oil may be
.fafely recommended to the young Phyfiognomift,
we cannot too ferioufly warn him againft the abufe
of defigns drawn with black-lead pencil, and mi-
matures,
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 157
filatures, becaufe they lead to that loofe and incor-
re£t method, which, inftead of pi&ures, produces
mere caricatures of Nature. Red lead and Indian
ink would form more Handing colours for Iketching
profiles, in a pretty dark apartment, with a fmall
light received from a hole of one foot diameter
above the head to be drawn, and placed fideways.
A iky-light, falling perpendicular, might anfwer
better for flat or delicate vifages, but not for thofe
•yyith fuch ftrong mufcles as would baffle the im-
preflion of a ihadow in that way.
A camera obfcura might be adapted to the
other method pointed out,’ by which the obje£t
yvould be diminiihed three-fourths of its fize ancU
if the defign could not be fo compleated, on ac­
count of the motion, it would ferve to produce a
juft iketch of the outlines.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
158 t a v a t e r ’ s
ESSAY XVII.
On the Ufe of P
o
i
n
t
i
n
g
s
, Portraits, Me.; ivith a
Jhort Account of the beji Paintersand Profeffbrs
'of Phyfiology.
HISTORICAL paintings and portraits of the
firft matters cannot be too diligently ftudied.
The great defeft in this profefiion, has been the
flightingofthofe trivial peculiaritieswhich diftinguifh
every individual, as much as his fliape or com­
plexion. Confequently the Phyfiologer mult not
'be confidered as a fervile copyitt, ifhe hides no flaw,
nor pafles over the leaft fpeck that indicates a der
viation from the paths of Virtue;—fuch as the in­
habitants of great towns quickly difeover, from their
habits of viewing and comparing the frail part of
the fair creation with modeft matrons.
Titian is a model for the molt excellent copies
of blooming beauties. His Venus, in the Grand
Duke’s Gallery at Florence, is fieih and blood.
Michael Angelo’s defigns contain the jufteft ex-
preffions of imperial power, eafy dignity, prefump-
tuous confequence, proud difdain, and undaunted
courage.
Rpbens
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . ' 159
Rubens excelled in reprefenting fury, drunken-
jie fs , and other excefles. He and Van Dyke have
left us matter-pieces in the higheft ftyle.
Raphael painted, in a ftill more majeftic manner,
both divine and noble figures, with thought, image,
and fentiment inimitable.—Guido’s heads are love­
ly, correft, and noble.
Salvator Rofa needs only to be named in the firft
rank of Italian painters.
Poufiin, Le Sueur, and Le Brun, did honour to
France. Others, from Kneller to Reynolds, gain­
ed fame and riches in England.
Teniers ftill ftands foremoft in repute, for having
reprefented national humour, innocent fports, and
gambols. The Flemiih fchool, likewife, produced
Gerard Dow, who drew rogues as they are, and
true piftures of low life.
Holbein excelled them in exprefling candour and
fimplicity. Hogarth followed him in the fame line
with equal or greater fuccefs. His H arlot's Pro-
grefs, and M arch o f the , prove him to
have been a Phyfiognomift, who did not omit a
fingle trait that expreffed vulgarity, ridicule, and
the horrors of difiipation.
For harmony, compofure, and ferenity, Mengs,
his wife, and children, will be remembered fo long
as their pictures, drawn by him for celeftial beings,
exift as ornaments to the Vatican.
' Weft
Digitized by Google
l a v a t e r ’s
Weft feems to be endowed with the fame pacific
genius as diftinguiihes that religious fociety of which *
he is fo eminent a member.
Callot, Bath, Golthius, De Vos, Leyde, Brandt,
Scullenberg, La Fage, and Rembrandt, were exceh
lent painters of droll, comic, and convivial fcenes.
For tender mothers, fine children, and attentive
fervants, we refer the ftudent to Chodowiecke’s
works, containing a reprefentation of thofe faihion^
able airs and gefiures which prevail in courts,
camps, and cities.
Fufeli paints giants, and every gigantic obje£t,
in a manner that preferves his name from oblivion.
Superior to many, inferior to none, Annibal Car-^
racci excelled in the fame way, particularly in re-?
prefenting mirth and jollity*.
To Phyiiognomifts we recommend the portraits
of Morin, with the modeft fuffering countenances
drawn by* Lairefle. Wilkenboon ihould be con-
fulted for the juft traits of irony; and Spranger
fur exprelhons of rage.
It
160
* Jenkins, of Rome, took up the pallet in his younger years with
a degree of reputation that paved the way to eminence in another
career. His portraits are fcarce ; but ihould his collections of every
kind be preferved, they would form a valuable inheritance, wherever
the fate of war might decide, without impoveiiihing his amiable
niece, or neareft relatives ; becaufe, happily for them, he aCted, as
a banker, upon this wife principle,—that the walls of Temple Bar
were
Digitized by ) o g k
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 161
It would be fuperfluous to dwell on the advan­
tages to be derived from the ftudy of fuch inva­
luable mafter-piece§ as are known to every eminent
artift that has feen a little of the world. Let it
fuffice to add, what an ingenious ftudent will feel
as he proceeds, that there is no walk in life wherein
a penetrating eye may not fee through the maik
that education or hypocrify throws over a counte­
nance and character, when both are duly compared, •
With a diftinftion betwixt the original face and
acquired appearance: thus he may learn to judge
how much outward figns correfpond with fecret
inclinations. At firft fight, he will know fuch a
man as is degraded by imprudence or exceffes, not
only in his own eftimation, but in the. opinion of
his neighbours, whofe eyes he cpnftantly avoids.
were the fafelt rampart that the Childs could throw around his well-
earned fortune. He is now no more, having died at Harwich, on
landing with a part of the treafures brought from the Roman Ma-
leums. While he lived,— as the needle points to the North, lb
did his Britiih heart point towards his native home, after an abfence
from it of half a century. A furviving friend and correlpondent pays
this tribute due to his memory with the tew of fenfibility.
Poor Jacob More’? departed fpirit has a claim to equal homage
from the lame friendly pen, although his genius was of a different
call. His llyle of painting was generally confined to ruins, Jand-
fcapes, and the grandcft fcenes: his Eruptions of Vefuvius, drawn
on the fpot, will have a place in the bell cabinets of Europe, fo long
as burning mountains (hall leave a trace behind. -
M But,
Digitized by Google
162 x a v a t e r ’s
Bat ihould he meet with vifages impreffed with
marks of pail lives, or fenlations unknown to him,
a reference to his models at home would foon
enable him to unravel the myfiery, by a compa­
nion with fome of Le Brun’s, or other profiles in
Jus collection. However that may be, it is incum­
bent on the Phyfiognomift to pronounce his judg­
ment upon any one’s good name and private con-
du£t, only from proofs, and with great caution.
The number of good writers on this fubjeCt is
inconfiderable: a fortnight would fuffice for the pe-
rufal of all their works, which deferve praife or
comment.
Porta has colleCled the moil eifential obfervations
of ancient authors, but not with a due diftinCtion
between truth and vifionary notions. His reflec­
tions, however, are interefting, and explained by
the faces of celebrated characters.
Peufchel and Pernetti followed Porta’s example,
without determining precifely the features of a face
diilinguifhed from cafual appearances. This difcri-
mination is fo neceflary, that, without it, we might
juitly apply to Phyfiography what Pope has faid—•
“ A little learning is a dangerous thing.’*
Helvetius, in his Phyjiognomia M edicinalis, has
treated different conflitutions with great propriety ;
and, notwithilanding his partiality for aftrology, he
is
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 16S
is entitled to the firft place among the profeffors of
Phyfiology.
Huart’swork, with allhisundigefted ideas, isworth
reading; for, if he makes no freih difcoveries, fe-
veral excellent paflages, taken from Ariftotle, Ga­
len, and Hippocrates, are produced by him in fup-
port of his curious remarks.
Philip May gave few initruCtions. ' .
But La Chambre was a judicious writer, who
fucceeded in defcribing paflionate characters fo
well, that, while reading his defcriptions, we cannot
help regretting the omiflion of proper engravings.
Jean de Hagen’s portrait in the frontifpiece of
his Treatife makes an imprefiion. We need fay
no more, than that both are worth a glance, efpe-
cially as he has copied from other mailers.
Marbitius attempted to found a new fyftem for
the arrangement of human features, which, abfurd
as it appears, has been adopted by a modern writer.
His Eflay is entitled, D eVarietate Facet H u
and printed at Drefden in 1675.
Parfons is a claffic author, whofe works Buffon
and Haller took the trouble to abridge; for, not-
withftanding any imperfections, nobody has excel­
led him in treating the moveable traits,—the muf-
cles of the face, and language of the pailions.
-Jacob Bohme, an obfcure Deift, was a clofe ob-
ferver of Nature, whofe expreifions were familiar
to him; and he knew how to fift into the meaning
M 2 of
Digitized by Google
1 6 4 l a v a t e r ’
s
of every minute diftinguifhing trait. His Effay on
the Four Kinds of Complexion is a jewel in the
eyes of a good Phyfiognomift.
Guglielmo Gratarole, a Phyfician of Bergamo,
likewife tranfmitted his name with honour to pof-
terity, in a book whofe title is, Preedictione
Momm Nalurarumgue Hominum,
Scipio Claramohtius, likewife, wrote with eafe
and elegance, as a man who had probed the inmoft
•receffes of the heart, and ftudied the mental facul­
ties, in a manner that proved his informations de­
rived from the pureft fources. Some errors of his
predeceflors have, however, crept into his valu­
able Treatife, DeConjectandis cujufque Mori
Latitantibus Animi Affectibus, which deferves to be
perfectly underftood by every one who ftudies the
ufeful arf of reading human faces; but, with all
his fcholaftic reafoning, we mud give him credit for
new original ideas, and judicious remarks, written
in a ftyle that exhibits a noble and liberal way of
thinking.
The comparifon of great men with their lives and
pictures, as they ftrike us in hiftory, or act their
parts before us, would afford a perpetual fund of
knowledge and entertainment, adapted to a falutary
end. But the beft fchool, and where the young
Phyfiognomift ought to finiih his ftudies, is the fo-
ciety of honeft men, whofe virtues and perfections
he
Digitized by Google
l o o k in g -glass. 165
he would find out, by fearching with friendly eyes
and a pure heart.
Let him, then, ihew a cool indifference for the
idle queftions of bufy-bodies, who appeal to his
opinion with no better view than to render him an
object of jidicule. His ikill will not be diminilhed
byreferve; nor ought any ftudent to give himfelf
up to thefe purfuits, without feeling this felf-perfua-
fion,—that he is endowed with the qualities re­
quired for fuch a fcience, In this cafe, he would
anticipate the pleafure of difcovering wonders, as
a fufficient recompenfe for the troublefome but
delightful talk of reading the book of Nature,
and ftudying the features of all living creatures,
from man to plants.
M 3 ESSAY
Digitized by Google
166 i a v a t e r ’s
ESSAY XVIII.
On theFeatures of Animals.
BRUTES differ from each other in chara&er
and difpofition, as much as they do in ftature and
the conftru&ion of their bones.
Every fpecies has a peculiar fet of features that
diftinguifhes them all,—from the imperial eagle
down to the weakeft infe£l, or from the creeping
worm up to the formidable lion and gigantic ele­
phant.
At the firft fight of thefe creatures, or on feeing
the lamb, the ferpent, and butterfly, without the
leaft knowledge of their names and power, would
a child be at a lofs to attribute to them their re-
fpe&ive degrees of ftrength and courage ?
Among animals, that clafs is the weakeft, and
leaft capable of receiving ideas, which differs the
moft from mankind in their outward form. This
affertion may be proved by a glance at the various
claffes; or even a companion of their figures, in
idea, fuffices for a demonftration.
Through the whole range of animal creation not
a Angle brute is to be found, that is not quite dif­
ferent from man in exterior appearance and inward
4 ftru£ture;
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 1 6 7
ftru&ure; for every kind has received from the
Supreme defigner a fet of invariable lines, as we
ihall hereafter demonftrate, after obferving, that it
would have been an operation becoming fuch en­
lightened men as Button, Linnseus, Camper, and
Euler, to have afcertained the forms of heads by a re­
gular ftandard fixed on mathematical principles.
For inftance; the ftfiking diftin&ion in a man’s'
face from all others, i$ the regular proportion of
the fore-part, which forms a perfect oval, whofe
parts, being regularly divided, are preferved in
equal fymmetry. .
It is in that refpeft that brutes are infinitely in­
ferior to us, although they refemble in the hind
part of the fkull.
Thus in patting a line from the root of the teeth
of the upper jaw, through the mod forward bone of
the forehead, to crofs another horizontal line on the
whole cheek, from the root of the nofe to the lower
end or orifice of the ear, thefe two lines united
would form an angle of about eighty to ninety de­
grees.
From the baboon downwards on the fcale of
brings, all animals differ from that form more or
lefs; and their inftinit appears to be fo much the
more limited, according as the union of thofe two
lines forms in them a more pointed angle.
Confequently, as mother Nature feems to have
fixed a vilible connection between exterior forms
M 4 and
Digitized by Google
and extent of faculties, it is eafy for a naturalift to
judge of any animal’s degree of reafon, or inftinö,
from the form of the bones in his head. Accord­
ingly fiihes, who are the flatted living creatures*
have faces, which prefent a more pointed angle by
the junction of two fuch crofs lines.
The human face furniihes the form of an egg,
rather wider above than below. If we divide
this oval figure into two diameters* the largeft will
fplit intp twp equal parts the forehead, nofe, mouth,
and chin ; the fmalleft will likewife divide the head
into two portions, alike at the root of the eye-brows.
Thefe parts being again divided, will prqduce, in
regular portions as before, one the root of the
hair, and thte other the tip of the nqfe.
The fourth divifion, by being divided into three
parts, will contain the mouth and fource of the
chin.
The bafe of the nofe, with.its tip, forms a tri­
angle of equal fides, of the lize of the month or
eye.
Between both eyes there is fufficient fpace for
a third, or a nofe. The nofe and forehead 'ihould
be feparated only by a flight and almpfl: impercep­
tible bent. ,
, Monkeys come neareft to the human figure; the
püran-outang bears the ftrongeft refemblance tp man;
but the fuppofed lik,enefs will not appear well-found-
pd j nor can Jhis wild creature’s pretenflops Hand the
. . . 1 teft
168 l a v a t s r ’s ■
Digitized by Google
l O O K I N G - G L A S d .
tpft of examination ; for.his natural brutality breaks
out under the maik that Nature gave him to conceal
his inferior rank.
His real chara£ter is known by his narrow fore­
head, fo different from a man’s, as well as from the v
want of white in his eyes; or, at leaft, it is imper*
peptible.
He is likewife diftinguiihed by the near approach
of his eyes, or fockets; and this proximity is more
ftriking when the ikull-bones are (tripped of their
flefh and mufcles.
His nofe is exceffively flat, too fmall above, and
cruihed down below. While a man’s ears are
placed on a level with the nofe and eye-brows,
the monkey has the fame parts nearer the crown of
his head. The fpace between his nofe and mouth
is almoft the whole length of his chin-; but in .a
human being it is generally but half fo long.
. His lips are faitened to his teeth, forming the
key of an arch, as in other brutes. .
It is unneceflary to pufh this comparifon any
further; but it muft be granted, that this animal
has a ferjous gait, and a melancholy look. He is
good-natured and thoughtful, having neither the
impatience of a baboon, nor does he play the mif-
chievous tricks of other apes.
After the man of the wood, the gibbon is the
next refembling the human being in fome degrees,
particularly in the. ikull; but notwithflanding his
• mild
J69
Digitized by Google
170 l a v a t e r 's
mild difpofition and gentle manners, his figure,
upon the whole, is materially different from our’s j
for, even as he Hands, his difproportioned arms
reach the ground, while the brute appears, either
by the wide diftance between his mouth'and nofe,
®r by the nearneis of tbefe two parts, without any
iymmetry of features.
Some of thefe brutes, however, are not fo ugly
as they generally appear; nor would it be proper
to difguft our readers with their particular defcrip-
tion; but, palling over various kinds who inhabit
the coaft of Africa, we muft mention the Chinefe
bonnets, or monkeys, who can only be half tamed;
yet they catch crabs or lobflers very dexteroufly,
by entangling their tails with the claws of fhell-
fifh. *
*
In the clafs of four-footed animals, the horfe is
moft eminently diftinguifhed for his beautiful figure,
courage, ftrength, docility, and ufe to mankind:
he unites with a regular ihape both elegance and
juft proportion in all parts of his body. Who’
better than the Sacred Writer* could defcribe this
noble animal, the friend and companion of man ?
• Compared
T H E HO RSE.
* Haft thou given the horfe ftrength ? Haft thou clothed his
neck with thunder ? Canft then make*hira afraid as a graihopper ?
T h e
Digitized by Google
i O O X I N G - G L A S S . IT l
Compared with other brutes, he rifes far fupe-
rior to moil of them in the fcale of creation* What
an
T h e glory of his noflrils is terrible. He paweth in the valley, and
rejoiceth in his ftrength. H e goeth on to meet the armed men.
H e mofcketh at fear, and is not affrighted ; neither turneth he back
from the fword. The quiver rattleth againft him ; the glittering
fpear and the (hield. H e fwalloweth the ground with fiercenefe
and rage ; neither believeth he that it is the found of the trumpet.
He faith among the trumpets— Ha, ha!-------and he fmfelleth the
battle afar off; the thunder of the captains, and the fhouting!
Here, then, are the moil fprightly images of this generous beaft
expreffed in fuch energetic language as would have furnifhed models
o f the fublime to thofe ancient writers who were unacquainted with '
the book of Job. Thus the facred Poet makes all the beauties to
flow from an inward principle in the creature that he defcribes; but
the beft claffic poets have confined their following defcriptions o f
him to his outward figure, lineaments, and motions.— In Homer’s
Iliad there is this beautiful {¡mile, to which an Engliih Bard has done
juftice;------
Freed from his keepers, thus, with broken j^ins,
The wanton courier prances o’er the plains ; '
Or in the pride of youth o’erleaps the mounds,
And fnuffs the females in forbidden grounds;
Or feeks his watering in the well-known flood,
T o quench his thirft, and cool his fiery blood.
H e fwims luxuriant in the liquid plain,
And o’er his fhoulders flows his waving mane;
H e neighs, he lnorts, he bears his head on high,
Before his ample cheil the frothy waters fly.
Virgil’s
Digitized by Google
an air of dignity there is in his head and neck !—»
But thé rhinoceros and elephant are clumfy and
unwieldy ;
172 L A V A T E R ’S
Virgildefcription has been thus tranflated:----- -
The fiery courier, when he hears from far
The fprightly trumpets, and the fhQuts of war,
Pricks up his ears, and, trembling with delight,
Shifts pace, and paws, and hopes the promis’d fight.
On his right ihoulder his thick mane reclin’d,
Ruffles atfpeed, and dances in the wind.
11is horny hoofs are jetty black, and round; ^
H is chin is double ;— darting with abound
„ H e turns the turf, and (hakes the folid ground.
Fire from his eyes, clouds from his noftrils flow ;
H e bears his rider headlong on the foe;
And in his noftrils rolls colle&ed fire.— —
* Lucan expreflea the circumftance of fhouting with great fpirit
" So when the ring with joyful fhouts rebounds,
With rage and pride th* imprifon’d courfer bound? s
He frets, he foams, he rends his idle rein,
Springs o’er the fence, and headlong fceks the plain.
Pope, in his Windfor Foreft, hasfeized the true fublimity of the
ancients, thus
T h ’ impatient courfer pants in every vein,
And, pawing, feems to beat the diftant plain ; .
Hill?, vales, and floods, appear already croft,
And, ere he ftarts, a thoufand fteps are loft.
However familiar thefe extra&s may be to feme readers,* it is to
be hoped that they will admit them as better than any vain at­
tempt
D . zed by Google
LOPKINGrG,LASS. 173
unwieldy; the camel is deformed y the lion thick­
headed-; the afs ill-ihaped; and the ox Aiort-footed.
A horfe’s tail ought to be long, waving, and
proportioned to his fize. A right medium guards
him againft thofe inconveniences to which every
rider is no firanger.
His head ought to be dry add Aim, without being
too long ; his ears, not diftant from each other,
fmall, ftraight, fixed, fiender, and placed high on
his head. The forehead ihould be narrow, and a
little convex, or rifing in a circular form like the
outiide of a globe; with plump cheeks, thin eye­
lids, clear, lively, and fparkling eyes, pretty large,
and even with his head, with a large ball or apple
of the eye: his nether jaw lean and Aim ; the nofe
a little bent; a thin partition ; open and we1
1
-
doven noArils; delicate lips, witli a middling Ait;
high and Aiarp withers; dry, Hat, and pretty broad
Aioulders; his back fmooth, but Aoping infenfibly
lengthways, and rifing on both fides of the fpine
or back-bone, which ought to appear as if it were
driven into his body.
tempt to convey the fame ideas in a modern ilile, adapted to the
more refined or corrupted tafte of the times: nay, had Dr. Sue been
converfant with Pope’s writings, he likewife would have quoted and
admired the preceding fublime lines on this noble animal, the fa­
vourite friend of man,
. , His
Digitized by Google
174 l avate r’s
His flanks fliould be full and ihort * the buttocks
round and plump; the haunch well-garni(lied j the
flump of his tail thick and itrong; his legs and
gafcoins large and fleihy ; knees round in the fore­
part ; wide ham ; the bit fmall forward, and large
on the fidesj flender joints at the fliin; loofe finewsj
thin fetlock ; large and longiih pattern j his coronet
a little faifed ; hoofs high, with black, fmooth, and
fhining horn; the hind-part round, with large and
pretty high Tides; the fruih thin and lean, with
thick and hollow foies.
The horfe’s mane is fuited to his head, adorns
his neck, and gives him a {lately look $ while his
buihy and trailing tail fets off to advantage the hind
parts of his body. This ornament confifts of thick
and long hair, which feems to grow out of his back,
becaufe the rump, where it originates, is very ihort ;
and although he cannot raife it, as the lion does,
it is no lefs ufeful to him, fince he can ufe it iide-
ways to keep off troublefome flies.
The greateft cqnqueft ever made by man, w^as
in forcing this high-mettled animal to {hare with
him the toils and glories of war, the fports of the
chace, the race, or the tournament. Brave as his
matter, he flies in the face of danger, takes de­
light in the din of arms, and, like a gallant foldier,
he advances or retreats at the word of command,
having no other will of his own than to difcharge
his duty, fubje£t to military difcipline: nay, after
- . having
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 175
having (trained every nerve in executing orders
with equal docility and exa£tnefs, he takes pride
in anticipating the pleafure of his fuperior, and
even rejoices to meet a glorious death in the field.
In ihort, Nature has infpired the horfe with love
and fear of man, together with a due fenfe of his
dependence, and want of our prote£lion.
The dog is another domeftic animal, equally at­
tached to the human fpecies. .
He furpaffes others in his high, but difpropor-
tioned, forehead, for the advantage of that feature
is loft by other deformities; particularly the brutiih
ihape of his fnout, adapted to the ftrong fenfe of
fmelling; and accompanied with fallen chaps, or
rather no chin at all.—Buffon’s opinion is, that a
dog’s dangling ears are chara&eriftic figns of his
(lavery.
The hare and rabbit have every appearance of
that exceffive lechery, and low gluttony, by which
they are diftinguiihed.—What a contrail there is
between their ihape, and a man’s regular fide-face
and majeftic figure ! •
The goat* appears to be, in fome meafure, a
caricature of the iheep; an emblem of avarice, and,
in every refpe£t, a mean, if not a defpicable brute.
. Who
* Dr. S uc’s defcriplion of thegoat is,.......“ La chèvre paroît être
en quelque forte une caricature de la brebis : ou croit y voir l'era-
bleme
Digitized by Google
1 7 6 l a v a t e r 's
Who can look at the hog without perceiving all
the iigns of meannefs from his ears to the tip of
his fnout, with a treacherous eye, and a mifehievous
grunt ?
The mouth of an afs retraces every idea of ftu-
pidity and ftubbornnefs; his heavy and ilovenly
head is the type of his chara£ter.
The camel and dromedary rank as if they were
a compofition of the horfe, lheep, afs, and monkey,
without having inherited their nobleft features.
Differing from other ufeful animals, they have
no mouths calculated for the bridle; nor is the
# t
fpot where they can bear it marked with any fign
of fpirit and mettle. Their other features are equal*
ly mean, and expreflive of their fervility. '
bleme de Pavarice : un caractere de baflefle femble percer au travers
de Penfemble, & de chaque partie coniiderce feparement.*’
It is true, that the goat appears to be, in fome ffleafure, a cari­
cature of the fheep. Poor, and ill-fed, he bears the ftamp of avarice,
with fomething of that beggarly poverty which prevails in thofe
highlands where he is beft known ; but when the female has fared
fumptuoufly in the valley, (he looks as. plump as an Englifh matron,
Indeed, all mountaineers profefs the greateft refpeft for this animal,
whofe milk they drink from their infancy. In their partial eyes,
his whitifh beard refembles thofe gray hairs which formerly diftin-
guifhed the Druids and elders of the land. Even that miiery, which
a high-bred naturalift may defpife, ihews the fpirit of independence
. peculiar to Wales, where he'ftill browfes like St. David’s fbn, an
Ancient Briton, who prefers the humble fare of his native rocks, to
all the luxuries of England without his liberty.
The
Digitized by C')ogk
Looking-glass. 177
The bear’s looks announce his ferocity and de-
ltruCtive power. Fond of deferts, he avoids the
bufy walks of men.
The boar is equally remarkable as a wild beaft,
Vvhofe cOarfe afpeCt announces his vile and voracious
difpofition. The hedge-hog, likewife, bears the (lamp
of his charafter for diltruft, malice, and gluttony.
The lion’s profile is fuited to his high rank as
the king of animals. His majefty appears in a
ftriking manner, when we obferve the contour of
his forehead, with a ftraightiih angle which the out­
line exhibits from his molt prominent feature down
to the lower jaw. His other traits are equally ex-
preffive of power and dignity.
A man who refembled this animal in the face
would certainly pafs for an extraordinary character j
but we doubt that fuch a perfeCt likenefs will ever
be found.
Treachery and blood-thirlty rage are Itamped in
legible characters on the tiger’s eyes and muzzle.
Cats ate tamed tigers, of a fmaller fize; weaker,
but no better natured, except fo far as their man­
ners are polilhed. Thus they furpafs the largeit
Fpecies in refined cruelty towards birds and mice,
by taking pleafure to prolong the fufferings of their
victims.
The buffalo's frightful figure indicates his brutal
inclinations to itrike and throw down whatever
comes in his way. .
N The
Digitized by Google
178 L A V A T R R ’s
The head of an ox has every line that marks his
ftupidity, patience, and obdinacy'; particularly the
didance of his eyes, awry, as they are, in this direc-
The bull appears to poflefs a greater fpirit, a
livelier eye, and a higher brow.
The ftag in his prime of life, and the roe, are
both on the fcent and lidening, with every lign of
fwiftnefs, circumfpe£tion, and peaceful innocence.
There is in the comer of their eyes a (harp point
that indicates a quick fenfe hearing, and watch­
ful ears.
The wild goat has prodigious ftrength in his
nerves to bear, as he does, an enormous weight
of horns. There is, however, a degree of delicacy
in the comer of his eyes, confident with his timid
and refpeitable appearance, in comparifon with
more ferocious brutes.
For indance; is not the wolf eafily known in his
true light, fromhis formidable teeth, furious, treache­
rous, daring, and fanguinary look ?
Nor can we be midaken in attributing to the fox
that low cunning, weaknefs, and rapacity, which
his countenance expreffes. ’
The weafel’s form indicates his art and agi­
lity.
tion ^ y ; with the crooked traits of his
muzzle.
We
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 179
We need only view the lynx for a moment, at
the crooked line in his muzzle, and the
ruffled brows, added to the fwiftnefs of his motions,
in order to be convinced of his cruel defigns.
The beaver poffefles lefs courage than ingenuity:
he is armed with teeth fitter to gnaw than devour*
The powerful elephant is of an overbearing cha­
racter, fuch as agrees with his gigantic figure.—
Well-turned and hollow botles mark his fagacity.
His embonpoint is proportioned to that luxurious
ftyle of living, of which he is fo fond. The
fupple trunk difcovers prudence and craftinefs;
while the length and compafs of his brow are figns of
that retentive memory for which he is diftinguiihed.
Were it not for the linking fituation of his fore­
head, with refpeft to his eyes and mouth, we might
difcover a greater refemblance of a human being
than is vifible in any other creature. But it is a
man's brow alone that always forms a right angle,
more or lefs regular, with the axis of the eye, and
line of the mouth. In Ihort, every glance of an
elephant’s eye proclaims his fuperior abilities.
The bat expreifes in all his diminutive body a
vile and violent paflion, that he dares not indulge
in the face of day j nor are his hidden eyes adapted
to light. His form indicates agility; while the tail,
adjoining to his wings, is the type ofhis mifchievous
difpofition.
N 2 ESSAY
Digitized by Google
180 I A V A T E r ’9
ESSAY XIX.
On Birds.
NATURE has likewife drawn on birds a true
pidture of their different chara£ters, according to
their fpecies and place in the fcale of beings.
Were we only to confider their tender conftitu-
tution, delicate form, and fuperior faculties, confin­
ed within a narrow compafs, in a comparative view
with other living creatures, it might be juftly faid,
that, next to man, the feathered race is beft entitled
to our admiration. .
Their little bodies contain more ilrength than has
fallen to the lot of the moft formidable four-footed
animals, with a greater degree of nimblenefs, by
ipeans of wings, which are marks of their inde­
pendence. Thus, having the power to vifit all
parts of the world, they fly from one climate to
another, according to thofe changes which iniiin&
teaches them to forefee ; fo that the whole univerfe
is their country, or wherever they can foar under
the great canopy of Heaven.
They are of a lighter form than quadrupeds, hav­
ing a more pliant neck, and a fmaller head, with a
pointed beak, inftead of a mouth. To them be-
4 . longs
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS.
longs an almoft defpotic power over the inhabitants
of three elements,—the air, earth, and water; toge­
ther with an exclufive right to rule over the whole
tribe of infefiis, who feem to have been created for
no other purpofe than to nouriih their voracious
mailers.
Nor do they fear the poifon of reptiles; while
fiih at fea, and four-footed bealts on land, become
alternately the devoted prey for fowls of the air.
A hawk attacks the fox; the falcon feizes the
antelope ; the griffin devours a wild goat.
Superior to them all, the imperial eagle takes a
bolder flight, defying the rays of the fun, looking
with his piercing eyes over extenfive dominions,
and difcovering at a diftanee in a retired fpot, on
the wing, or perched upon a tree, the feeble animal
that is doomed to fatisfy bis craving appetite.
Suddenly the proud tyiant pounces on his preyr
grafps it in his claws, and carries it in triumph
cither to a folitary rock or a deferted village, where
he foon enjoys a delicious repaft.
Is it, then, poffible for us to confider that king
of birds, without feeling how much his form and
features correfpond with his majeftic authority ? Is
not his fparkling eye like lightning? Who elfe
but he dares foar fo high to view the brilliant
ftar of day ?
What other fight, like, his, from the mole up*
Wards, is formed to furvey at once the firmament,
N 3 and
181
Digitized by Google
182 lavater’s
and the whole range of creation ? Indeed, not
only that commanding feature, but every Other,
announces his power to dart the wrath of Heaven
on every creature that falls within his arbitrary
gripe-
Inferior to him, the vulture may boad of a more
fupple neck and bill, with a graceful mien.
The owl is likewife a voracious bird of the
lowed clafs, equally weak and timorous.
The English fighting copk has a beak proportion­
ed to his weaknefs but, nptwithftanding his pride,
prefumption, and jealoufy, he is inferipr to birds of
his fize, and probably more amorous.
The parrot prates and aflumes copfequence with
no better pretenfions than his fpeech and feathers.
But the pigeon is a juft emblem of peace, mar
dedy, and timidity.
Neither the dove’s good-nature, nor the wild
duck’s revengeful look, is vifible ip the pelican’s
f:nall head, and long bill, by which he is, in fome
meafure, deformed, or, at lead, has an unmeaning
appearance.
The fwan looks nobler than a goofe, is weaker
than the eagle, lefs tender-hearted than the dove,
and more graceful than the odrich.
The wild duck has a fiercer air than tire fwan;
but however big he may be, compared to an eagle,
Jiis drength is not in proportion to his fize.
' ' ’• ' ' ' As
Digitized by Google
LOO K I JIG-GLASS. 183
As the oftrich is faid to grind glafs, and digeft
iron, he was not formed to feel companion; yet
the crofs lines in his face exprefs more tendernefs
than the ilraight and pointed traits. For the fame
reafon, the long line, that divides the clofe bpak of
this bird, indicates clearly the hardnefs of his heart,
in fuch a manner as forms a contrail between him
and a man in that particular feature.
Gut, upon the whole, and generally fpeaking, if
we coniider all the advantages that birds enjoy over
every fpecies of animals on earth, they will be
found entitled to the next place, for pre-eminence,
after mankind; particularly from their undifputed
perfe&ions,—fuch as a (lately gait, upright walk on
two feet, imitation of muiical founds, wedded love,
motherly affeition, and focial virtues, added to the
invaluable gift of flying to an immenfe diftance,
tnuch fooner than the fwifteft four-footed animal
could perform a ihorter race on his more folid
element.
Nor has Art been able to copy, much lefs excel,
Nature’s choiceft colours laviihed with profuiion
upon the plumages of thofe little amiable creatures,
who daily difplay fuch a fplendid (how as furpafles
the pomp of drefs at court, or a coronation, and in
a ilyle that beggars all defcription; nay, were their
lives to be traced from the neil up to the fummit
of domeftic happinefs, there would be a wide field
open for initruflive contemplation, with a pleafant
, N 4 fubje£l
Digitized by Google
1 84 i. a b a t e r ’s
fubjeft for a moil interefting hiltory. But we mull
wave it, with fo much the lefs regret, as ftudents
will find that this matter alone has already employ­
ed the pens of eminent writers in all ages ap<J
countries.
ESSAY1
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 185
ESSAY XX.
On Fijhes.
IT is evident, that every Phyfiognomy bears a
Significant mark, expreffing the degree of faculties
affigned to each animal on the fcale of creation.
For inftance ; how widely different is a fifh com­
pared with man, the lion, and other creatures, par­
ticularly in profile, or his fide-face ! His capacity
is at the fame proportionable diftance from Superior
underftanding ; for he has not Sufficient fenfe to
think, refleft, a£t, and contrive a way to efcape
from the net : he can neither Shut nor cover thofe
dull and globular eyes, which differ much from the
fame organ of fight in the fox and elephant,—two
beafts remarkable for cunning, proportioned to
their features.
Many fiflies Seem deftftute of every quality ne-
ceffary for living either in Society or with any kind
of communication with each other ; fince, like ty­
rants, the great ones deftroy the lower clafs for
food, with a total indifference about the manner of
devouring them, rather than indulging the tafte
while they Satisfy their ravenous appetites: yet
finny tribes of this defcription poffefs more than
• half
Digitized by Google
1 8 6 l a v a t b r ’s
half the globe in brooks, rivers, lakes, and Teas,
in an incalculable number, and with an infinite
variety of forms, powers, habits, and complexion.
' But, much as this matter exceeds the compre-
henfion of vulgar minds, it is (till big with difcovc-
ries, expe£ted from the united labours of enterprif-
ing men. In the mean time, it is fufiicient to add,
that every library contains valuable treatifes on the
numerous inhabitants of the ocean, and others who
live at home for our fupport and pleafure.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
l O Q K I N G - Q L A SS. 187
ESSAY XXI,
On AmphibiousAnimals.
THIS clafs of animals, partaking of two natures,
is lefs numerous than the laft; but, fince they are not
fo well known, it is our duty to mention fome parti­
culars refpe&ing their exiftence. They are either
naked, or covered with fcales ; being called amphi­
bious, not becaufe they live alike on land or in
water, but from the circutnftance of their breathing
at unequal intervals, and not regularly, as other
creatures do. It is true, that they can exift for
fome time in the air, but not under water fo long,
without periihing. Their blood is not warmer than
that intermediate fpace which they fill. Thus a
touch of their cold bodies makes an unpleafant im-
prefBon, added to the horror that they infpire by
their offenfive fmell, fuppofed poifon, and ghaftly
figures.
Some of them are four-footed,—fuch as the tor-
toife, the toad, the frog, the cameleon, the fala-
mander, the lizard, &c.
Others have no feet,—fuch are vipers, ferpents,
adders, &c. Tortoifes are quiet, mild, and cool,
being feemingly affeSed by no ftrong paffions.
Spallanzani
Digitized by Google
l a v a t b r ’s
Spallanzani having had the cruelty to behead
the male while he was careiling his love, he
continued, for fome time, to hatch her eggs, and
lived four-and-twenty hours after hr ing fuffered
that fatal operation. Another of the fame fpecies,
being deprived of his brains, has been known to re­
tain all the iigns of life for fix months. After being
feparated from the. body,.his head >
undergaeis. no
linking change for fome bbui's, and his Wood con­
tinues to circulate during twelve days, or longer.
A frog’s heart has been feen to pant a fortnight
after the lofs of his bowels. Free tortoifes live up­
wards of a century, and twenty years before they
come to their full growth.
The toad’s body is greenilh, and ill-lhaped, with
finall puliules or fwellings like biles, moiftened
with a kind of glue. This animal lives in the moll
unwholefome fpots, taking delight to diminilh the
caufes of infe£tion. He (lares at a man, and lhoots
on him his ilimy venom, which, however, is not
dangerous.
The frog is oblong, fmooth, and hump-backed.
His hoarfe croak proceeds from bladders, fixed
near his wind pipe, which he fills and empties
continually.
The crocodile is of a longilh form, covered with
fcales, and adorned with a tail, being armed with a
faw on his back, befides terrible teeth fuited to his
voracity. He cannot be attacked without rifque;
but,
]»8
Digitized by Google
Log'jcistg-c l a ss. 189
but, luckily, feme other creatures^ by deftroyjngihis
eggs, dinriniflr the breed. . ,--Ki
;The cameIcon is a Angular crUatuaie, whoferbodcf
i9 c<?tnpctSj iand pittdy? compofed"of fhagreen, with
large and fparkling eyes. He changes colour from
ficknefs and .veaaationr; but it is tu^t true that he
takes, the oomplpxbon mf furrouhding obje£ts, ac*
cording to that vulgar opinion which- has rendered
him the. emblem of flattery. He is found in Alia
and Africa. .
The lizard is a fmall, pretty, and amphibious
animal, with a long and pointed tail, full of little
feales j with a long body, like a cylinder, fixed to bis
head} arid frkhcwt'a member fit for-motion.: .
The ferpeht flidesalongthe ground withfuch velo*
city asreftdershimalrnoftinviiible, till he hais climbed
on a tree/or leaped -over « precipice, with equal rapi+
dity . Inftead of fuppbrters on the lower parti of their
bodies, ferpents have large moving blades* riiiu£
and falling by means of a particular mufcle. Be+
fides this lever,, they have the power of bending
the middle of tbejr trunk ihto a bow, from which
they ibo.Qt themfelves out like an. arrowy after
having ufed their two waving fides as elaftiq
fprings, which Jpend theirs force in pufliing them
forward to an incredible diftance,* ,
' Serpents*
*
*
■ . . ' •• ' ' ■ ■ ■ - ■ - ' - --- '
** W hat a leflbti is here for the ftudy and application of mechanic .
powers ! Nature furniihes fuch a model as h&s not been excelled ih
the
Digitized by Google
190 ¿ A V A T X t’S
Serpents have a very (mall, but molt ekpfeifivd
face, (tamped with all the traits of malice and ini'1
’
pofture. Their wiles are beyond conception* not-
withitanding their evident want of judgment, re*
fle&ion* and memory.
Their variegated fpots and colours imprefs us
with a fufficient idea of deceit to put every man on
his guard; and were we to rove through all the
wilds of America, not one ferpent would be found
capable of-infpiring with his looks either afie£tion
or confidence. Let us fuppofe fuch features as his
in a human countenance j—we (hould turn from it
with horror.
Sly people, indeed, have their eyes funk deep in
the fockets; but the ferpent has his fight on a level
with the head, as a mark of malicious defigns: he
refembles only that defpicable defcription of men
whofe low cunning is a fubftitute for wifdom.
Without any of that fprightlinefs which diftin-
guiihes other brutes in their enjoyments* ferpents
difcover no marks of love and harmony, nor any
turn for innocent recreation among themfelves; but*
the machine at Marly, for conveying the water of (he Sane acrofs
a hilly ground to Verlaillea. Although that was oflce the wondei
of a fplendid age, yet fo great are the improvements fince made in
this art, particularly in England, that were the iron-work in it de­
livered to Bolton and Watt, of Soho, they would probably under­
take to make a better mill for the lame purpole, without requiring
any other compenlation for their trouble.
in
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 191
in melancholy mood, they lie down on the brink of
a pool, in hollow rocks, or under barren buihes.
However, as every link in the chain of creation de-
ferves notice, fo, with all their imperfeftions, thefe
animals excite a degree of intereit in the mind of
a naturalift, who fees with pleafure their admi­
rable ftru£ture rendered ufeful to them upon the
principles of mechanifm.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
1 9 2 X
AvatbIîV
Essa y xxii
. OnInfects.
INSECTS form a world feparate from other
beings ; and, far as they are removed from the
human fpecies, the Phyfiognomift will find them fit
objefts of meditation. This truth jnuft inftantly
ftrike him —that the figure of every creature indi­
cates its aéiive and paflive power, or in what degree
it can enjoy or deftroy, fuffer or refill.
For inflance j is it not clear, that an infeft with
hard and clofe wings appears much fuperior to thé
puny butterfly, who has not the fame advantage ?
At the fame time, does it not ftrike a fuperficial
obferver, that the fofteft fubftance muft be the
weakeft, and, confequently, moft liable to be de-
ftroyed ?
Another remark will be made,—that the total
want of brains renders thefe creeping creatures à.
dii*e£t contrail to man, who is fo abundantly fup-
plied with that neceflary article.
Befide, is there not among their various clafles
a material difference confiftent with their character ?
The wafp difcovers more fpirit than the cater­
pillar, who crawls as if he had fcarde a breath of
. life
i J • .;
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G -G L A S S . 193
life more than that dry branch of- a tree which he
refembles.
The butterfly’s delight to fuck at every flower
correfponds with his tender frame, formed to en­
joy the fweets of the garden, and periih with a
blight like the rofe. His pliant trunk marks his
harmlefs weaknefs.
The bee revels in luxury, with a fixed plan of
living, above the fly, who is free and eafy, but with­
out any fixed obje£t of his delires.*
Compared with butterflies, fpiders are fwifter,
more alert in feizing, and more voracious in de­
vouring the fmaller broodi
But, above them all, the ant fets an example of
forefight, courage, and perfeverance, beyond any
idea that we could conceive of this poor pifsnire
from her weak appearance. '
* F. Hubert has lately publiihed at Geneva fome new and curious
Obfervations on Bees.
This author, being born blind, but with a ilrong pailion for fcience,
fucceeded in making improvements of hives, and fuch difcoveries as
had efcaped the penetrating eyes of Reaumur, Bonnet, and Swam­
merdam ; particularly concerning the queen’s propagation; mifcarriage
of drones; the change of government during her majefty’s retirement;
the manner in which their worms fpin filk from the cods; and other
experiments, made by him in the courfe of his ftudies, afliiled by a
faithful fervant, to whom he communicated the fame turn of mind.
— What a pity it is that fo few men are difpofed, or qualified, to
follow thefe ufeful and laudable purfuits!
O Covered
Digitized by Google
1 9 4 l a v a te r ’s
Covered with a coat of mail, and drefied in a
ftrong fuit of armour, the may-bug takes pride in
difplaying his power to do mifchief and defend
himfclf.
The gnat’s grinders are adapted to his chara&er
for gnawing, and eating greedily, whatever comes
in his way.
The grafshopper discovers the fame ravenous ap­
petite, by his open and menacing mouth.
The horn-beetle, or bull-fly, appears cruel and
ferocious. Like him, there is a fwarm of reptiles
whofe united features might ferve to furniih a pic­
ture of the greateft wickednefs, were it not unfor­
tunately found in the faces of nobler creatures.
True it is, however, that much as they vary in
ihape, colour, and inclinations, we find them all
■wifely formed by the Creative hand to anfwer the
fecret views of Providence.
ESSAY
Digitized by Google
L O O K I N G - G L A S S . 195
«
ESSAY XXIII.
On Worms.
* '
AMONG all living creatures, worms are thofe
whofe defcription forms the mod difficult talk, on
account of their incalculable number and infinite
varieties, abounding in all parts of the univerfe, in
every element, as well as in animals and vege­
tables, for the wifeft purpofe;—as if they were
the principal agents employed by Nature to deftroy,
corrupt, or purify her glorious works.
They are generally divided into fix claffes, de-
fcribed according to their refpe6tive forms and qua­
lities, viz.—
lft. Microfcopic worms, refembling vegetables,
—fuch as the polypus, the proteus, and others
which are not familiarly known to us, on account
of the changes that they undergo; but they are all
equally diftinguiihed by one common trait,—their
voracity in deftroying whatever folid body comes
within their reach, except their own fpecies;—
as if they had no other faculty than to digeft, as
they do, in their imperfeft date of exigence.
They poffefs the furpriting power to reproduce '
themfelves, not only from their eggs, but likewife
O 2 out
Digitized by Google
196 l a v a t e r ’s
out of the divided parts of their bodies, whatever
way the feparation be made, lengthwife or croff-
wife, in a (ingle or double divifion.
2dly. Inteftine worms are eafler to be diftinguifh-
ed, as their bodies are harder, longer, and more
regular. They live in the bowels of animals, by
fea and land. Being produced by eggs, they have
alfo the fame regenerating faculty as others for re­
viving out of their mutilated parts. Their Phyfiog-
nomy infpires fear and melancholy; nay, the very
thought of fome grubs, like thefe, fuffices to make
unpleafant impreflions. We (hall not, therefore,
extend this defcription at the rifque of giving pain
to delicate minds.
,3dly. Glow-worms are hitherto very little known,
except from thp quality peculiar to them of fa­
vouring the benighted traveller with their dazzling
light, particularly on the fea-ihore, in different parts
of the globe. We can only add, that thefe ihining
worms are of various kinds, differing much in their
form and qualities.
4thly. This fourth clafs, called by the French
echinodernfs, is equally beyond human comprehen-
fion for defcribing it properly, fo far as to form a
right judgment of all its traits. We know that,
like others, they reproduce themfelves out of their
feparated members.
5thly. Teftaceous worms are covered with (hells,
like the fnail. They open a larger field for obfer-
yation.
' Digitized by Goo<; e
LOOKING-GLASS.
vation, as not only their heads, but other parts, are
vifible to the naked eye; even growing mufcles are
to be feen in fome of them, with a full growth of
ihells in fpires, by which the grub’s age may be
afcertained: but men have generally admired more
this worm’s cabin than himfelf, on account of its
gaudy colours, and beautiful ilru&ure. The ad­
mirers of Nature, after having done juftice to his
tafte and ingenuity, will, however, indulge a train
of thoughts about the method ufed by fuch a puny
creature, to execute that mailer-piece of architec­
ture in a flyle of elegance and inimitabll perfec­
tion.
6thly. The zoophytes, or fea-polypufes, have been
confidered as vegetables for many ages ; but fome
naturalifts now pronounce them to be the inter­
mediate link in Nature’s chain between the animal
and vegetable worlds. Be that as it may, we la­
ment that this branch of natural hiftory has not
been cultivated with fuch fuccefs, as to excite a
itronger intereft, that might tend equally to gratify
curiofity, and produce ufeful difcoveries.
197
O 3 ESSAY
Digitized by Google
198 lavater’s
ESSAY XXIV.
On Vegetables.
A THINKING man cannot look about him
without feeling curious to know the faces ,of all
living creatures, particularly thofe who contribute
mod to his comfort and entertainment. Hence
arifes an*anxious concern to penetrate the fecrets
ofNature upon an exteniive fcale; but let not felf-
love miflead us to conceive too high an opinion of
ourfelves, when we confider the various furrounding
objefts which attract our attention, and deferve ad­
miration. "
Thus, if plants do not poffefs all the moving figns
or geftures peculiar to animals, they fpeak an elo-
. quent language at every period when they renew
their exiftence, and difplay freih beauties in tender
branches, leaves, or bloffoms, proclaiming their re-
fpe&ive parents. We need not dwell on the many
•changes that they undergo. Let it fuffice for
us to retrace fome of the fenfations raifed by
this lovely part of the creation, already divided into
thirty thoufand claffes, and diftinguifhed by the
different impreffions which they make on our
minds. ^
Do
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 199"
Do not our wearied eyes find gentle repofe, and
our troubled hearts derive frefli Ipirits, from the
fight of a foft verdure ?
Are we not ftruck with noble and awful fcn-
timents on treading the footfteps of our forefathers,
at an early hour, in that facred grove' whofe lofty
branches waft a gentle zephyr, while the hollow
trunk betrays the marks of ages paft; or the more
pleafing effufions of a tender heart, in a few poetic
lines, carved on the rind by a conilant lover, who
is now no more ?
How pleafant is a botanic garden, whefe trans­
planted ihrubs of every growth, country, and cli­
mate, meet in clofe ranks, ready to ferye us in a
thoufand ways!
The rofe is like a beautiful coquette, who difplays
her charms to all the world; but the tuberofe
appears more coy. The violet and panfy exhibit
equally their modefty; the flower-de-luce difeovers
majefty, while fweetnefs breathes in the jonquille
and jafmine; the pink, tulip, and others, join
their fragrant fmells to fuch allurements as tempt
us to enjoy the pleafures of a parterre glittering
with full-blooming flowers.
What expreffions of good-will towards mankind
do we not fee or conceive in thofe precious trees,
which, waving with the lead breath of air, drop or
offer us their favoury fruits!
0 4 - Some
D ' i by Google
200 l a v a t e r ’ s
Some vegetables will weather the ftorm, with­
out falling, till they are ripe, and fit to be gather­
ed for our refrefhment; while many a wholefome
plant is doomed to grow unfeen, and wafte its
goodnefs on the craggy cliff; nay, there is an
infinity of others, poffeffing the moll healing qua­
lities, or formed to lull our fouls to reft, which are
produ&ions either of the higheft mountains, or of
the deep ocean, deferted vales, lakes, rivers, and
mineral fprings.
If we reflect, for an inftant, on their tender frames,
compared with the folid conftitutions of living crea­
tures, a ftriking difference between fome of them
will be difcovered, in a deviation from the general
order of Nature; becaufe the ftalks or branches of
a plant may be feparated, without deftroying its
whole exiftence; while the ftream of life has not
one common centre, but animates alike every part
of the vegetative fyftem.
Vegetables pufh their growth by three principal
ways,—abforption or fucking up, circulation or
motion of the fluid, and nourifhment; and by the
fecondary operations of generation and fecretion;
for the a£ts of budding, grafting, tranfpiring, &c.
may be called mere modes of accomplifhing the
fame purpofe of vegetating.
Their outward parts exhibit only a fuller difplay
of that interior fubftance and compofition, in which
they, would probably be found to differ materially
from
Digitized by Google
from each other, were fuch able naturalifts as
Desfontaines to continue refearches after the dis­
tinction of fexes, families, and colonies, in the ve­
getable world. In the mean time, thofe plants
which live more than one year anfwer the two
following defcriptions, viz.—
lft. M0710cotylecloneshave no diftinCt concentric
fpfigs or layers pointed towards the middle : their
juice runs through the fibres or filaments, without
any ramifications tending to, or from, one point.
2dly. The Dicotyleclonesare of a defcription op-
pofite to the laft, agreeable to the circulating fyftem
of the blood and fluids in other animals.
In the firft clafs we reckon the palm, cow-grafs,
afparagus, fern, the daffodil, mofs, &c. &c.
On the other hand, hart-wort, houfe-leek, Indian
fig, and others, with two feminal leaves, are of the
fecond order already defcribed.
Thefe two clafles are invariable, and infeparable
from every partial variation difcovered in the uni-
verfal fyftem: the firft is pliant or tender, and the
fecond of a harder or more durable kind. Thus,
at firft fig^ht, we diftinguifh the ilender palm-tree
from the beech, the fir, the elm, or other trees
diftinguifhed by a double feminal leaf. Indeed, fo
nicely do we find their kindred marked by fuch
Phyfiognomical figns, that, after a feries of years,
when only the remains of a trunk are brought to
ligh
t,
LOOKING GLASS. 201
Digitized by Google
2 0 2 l a v a t e r ’s
light, there is no doubt or difficulty in afcertaining
to which family it belongs.
In obferving the palm, we can eafily make the
additional difcovery of its age, from the circular
lines with which the furface of the flock is furrow­
ed over, even fo far as to affeil the whole outward
compafs.
Befides thefe natural diftin£tions, there are acci­
dental differences or difformities to which a plan­
tation is fubje£l from an interruption of growth,
fuch as has fallen within the limits of every man’s
obfervations at Paris, as we fiiall prove by the fol­
lowing cafe in point:------We may fee there, in the
King’s, or National Garden, a palm confiderably
fhrunk in the middle, from a caufe well known,
and hereafter explained.
This plant was carried to the Ifle of France in a
fmall cheft, and fbipped off for Europe in the year
1789; but, notwithftanding the care taken of it
upon the paffage, and afterwards, it continued long
in a languifhing condition'. At laft, as the vege­
tation had been entirely flopped, the ftalk grew up
fome inches, with this difference,—that the fecond
growth was much fmaller than the former j and,
although thefe frefh fhoots have gradually rifen con­
fiderably, there ftill are, and ever will be, vifible
figns of that contra£lion for where this defe£t ap­
pears, the circumference is thirteen inches, twenty-
one lower, and eighteen above. This tree grew
about
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 203
about a foot in eight years. The additional height
is a regular cylinder, and not fo thick as from the
contracted part down to the root, becaufe its vege­
tation was not fo much forced in a temperate
climate as in the native foil where it firft grew,
under the torrid zone.
But fimilar effects cannot poffibly proceed from
the fame caufes in trees differently defcribed, which
grow up with uniform (talks directed to one central
point; fo that, however they may vegetate in dif­
ferent countries, the trunk will preferve its pri­
mitive form: yet, notwithftanding this affinity be­
tween, them all, in fome refpeCts, if we confider at­
tentively the fcattered colonies tranfplanted all over
the globe, the refult of our reflections will be a
conviction,—that thefe living creatures (plants) have,
like others, an original race, from which they are
defcended, and a mother-country, belt fuited to
their refpeCtive conflitutions.
This truth muit appear in a itronger light, from
a comparative review of fuch as are called branches
of the naturalfamilies ofplants.
Muihrooms, and their relatives, grow regularly
upon one fcallion, with a {talk terminating in a
chapiter, or like the top of a pillar. They are all
of a fpungy fubftance, porous, cracked, and in
pointed blades, growing on putrified wood.
Mofs confiits of feveral fmall leaves, growing fe-
parately upon one item, and blooming in winter.
4 Iniiead
Digitized by Google
2 0 * i a v a t e r ’ s
Inftead of pidils, and a ftamina of flowers, the male
kind of this herb produces nothing but duft. A
naturalift has, however, difcovered the female with
feeds in fliells properly preferved.
Fern has generally long leaves, like a plume of
feathers, rolled up in a fpiral form till they (hoot
out, being covered with {hells or pods, and produc­
ing grain on the back part of each leaf, as in the
polypode, or on particular blades, as in the ofmonde.
Corn, fuch as wheat and barley, grows on hollow
ftalks, each knotted, and bearing a (hell for grain,
found at the bottom of a covered chalice. They
have generally three ftamina. •
The palm is of a cylindrical form, terminating at
top in a tuft of lively-coloured leaves, parting from
the centre, and never dropping till others have
grown in their place. The plants of this family
are d
io
iq
u
e
s
, or monoiques.
The flower-de-luce has a coloured chalice, or
cup, with fix rows, and ftamina; a pod in three
divifions, with alternate leaves on the ftalk, form­
ing a iheath at bottom, with lhells for the feed
opening above.
The daffodil has fix ftamina; like the lily, but
differs from that fpecies, in having the ovarium for
feed below.
The iris has only three ftamina, and is like the
daffodil in other effential parts.
Sage
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 205
Sage and nettles have fquare blades j oppofite
leaves, with flowers in ringlets ; a cup, or chalice,
rifing like a faw, with five edges; four (lamina, but
only two in a perfedt (late. Their ftyle refembles
a fork with two prongs, and their ripe fruit is with­
out a hulk.
Calfs-muzzle, f^ax, &c. differ from the lail-
mentioned fpecies, in having the grain in a fhell,
called the pericardium.
Turnfol, borage, &c. bear alternate leaves, chec-
quered with glands, or rough hair; ftiffchalice, with
five deep rows; a regular chaplet monopetal, or
formed of one petal; but in the viperina, or viper’s
herb, it is irregular, like a wheel, or a funnel. This
kind of plant has five (lamina, or threads.
The apocina and periwinkle have a five-edged
cup, from which a double follicle, or vefTel for the
feed, (hoots out; with a (ingle wreath of five rows,
five (lamina, and grain with or without an aigrette,
like a heron’s cap. .
Some of this kind are poifonous, or, at lead, un-
tyholefome; and even the laurel-rofe is dangerous.
The three following kinds are of the compofite
order, having feveral di(lin£l flowers united in a
common chalice ; (ingle-leaved garlands fixed upon
one ovarium, or veiTel, for the feed; bare grain ; five
threads, or (lamina, united on the (ides with al­
ternate leaves, in general > and other flight (hades
of
1
Digitizec ' Google
206 LAVATER S
of difference, too well known to require a fuller
explanation, namely:—
lit. The f
e
m
i
-
J
l
o
f
c
u
l
a
r
, fuch as the lettuce and
piifabed, which confift of flat flowers in long blades,
like demi-flower-work.
2dly. The flofcular kind has a perfe£t flower-
work, as we fee in the artichoke, heart’s-eafe, or
the trinity.
3dly. Radiant herbs have a complete flower-
work in the centre, and demi-fleurons, or blades,
like tongues, in the circumference,—-juft as we find
the virga aurea, or the golden rod, and the do-
ronica.
The fcabious herb differs only in not having the
fldes united. '
Madder, and the milk-curdler, have ftiff blades,
with ftraight or crofs leaves; intermediate bars be­
tween the buds or untimely fhoots; a fingle-leaved
chaplet; four or five ftamina; bare fruit, covered
with a hulk, or buried in the berry.
Pariley, carrots, arid others, called ombellifer,
bear flowers ihooting out from their centre like an
umbrella; having a five-leaved garland, or chaplet;
five (lamina, which fall early ; two ftiles or rows of
grain, which has a fmall thread in'the middle, and
feparates itfelf in an upward dire&ion when it has
been prefled.
The. cabbage is cruciform, with a four-leaved
cup, or chalice, decaying; four petals like a crofs;
fix
Digitized by Google
ilamina, of which two are ihort; one ftile, and
one ihell for the feed.
Mallows are diftinguiihed by alternate leaves;
two petals, with knots or bars at the bottom ; fingle
or double chalice, complete; a five-leaved chaplet
fixed on the bafe of a pillar formed by the urjion
of the different threads which compofe the ftamina;
together with one or more ftiles, and either feveral
veflels placed in a circular row, each containing one
grain, or a Angle ihell holding feveral grains of feed
in feparate folds. •
Thefe plants are flimy, and their bark is fuffi-
ciently hard to ferve for making ropes or paper.
The geranium differs from mallows principally in
having a hollow tube like a crane’s back, opening
from the bottom upwards.
Five branches of this fpecies ihoot out and form
a fmall ftar. 'The cup, or chalice, is plain, with
deep rows, five petals, and compact or clofe threads,
or ftamina.
The pink has oppofite rows of leaves; a folid,
longiih,’ and fingle-leaved chalice; five petals, ter­
minating in a point like a graver, fixed under the
piftil; with ten ftamina, or branches; feldom four,
two, or five ftiles; and fruit that becomes a hulk
opening above. The grain flicks on a pyramid in
the middle of the ihell.
LOOKING-GLASS. 207
Apples
Digitized by Google
208 l a v a t e r ’s
Apples and pears are of that numerous clafs
which produces the moft pleafant fruit, partly dif-
tinguiihed by kernels.
They have alternate leaves, with a fingle tuft
divided into feveral parts; having five petals of
flowers, with from twenty to a hundred branches j
and feveral fmall twigs, all concentrating to give
thefe trees a moft Ihowy appearance in full bloom.
They produce nothing but fuch falutary food as
a child may fafely eat, and foon know from any
other, by looking at the trees thus defcribed.
Pulfe, peas, and beans, bear alternate leaves,
with a cup of one piece, and an irregular crown of
various flowers, refembling a butterfly.
It is on account of fuch a likenefs, that gardeners
call the upper petal, the ftandard •
, tbofe on the
fides, wings j and the lower ones, flankers. The
latter is fometimes but a fingle leaf, and often found
to be formed by two united petals. .
The ihells frequently grow together, fo as to be
only feparated with difficulty.
The willow, filbert, &c. confift of trees or ihrubs,
which produce alternate leaves ihooting out, or
concealed in pods; with male flowers like the
collet of a ring ; and female ones, feparate by them-
felves, or united in circles about the lame ftalk that
generally produces both fexes.
We have already had occafion to mention that
clafs of plants which yield fruit like a cone, or a
fugar-
Digitized by Google
LOOKING-GLASS. 209
fugar-loaf;—fuch as the pine and the fir, whofe
apples are familiar to every bqdy.
Their leaves are alternate, ihooting out at once,
or penetrating through a pod, and yielding flowers,
of which each fex, by turns, embelliflies the dif­
ferent twigs from one feafon to another, in con­
tinual clutters, and never-ceafing fucceflion.
Thus have we reviewed many glorious works,
without wiihing to trefpafs on any reader’s pa­
tience. '
But, however concife or imperfe£i thefe (ketches
may be, let us hope that they will enable a young
ttudent to form a juft idea of all animals, by exa­
mining their faces, manners, complexion, and dif-
pofition, while, with reverence, he confiders thofe
wife views of Providence for which they were
defigned. -
With thefe impreflions, afpiring to know more,
the liberal-minded fcholar will then conclude by
faying----- Such is the boafted privilege of man;
the creature endowed with the greateft gifts of
Heaven, reafon, fpeech, and fuch fuperior intfelr
le£ts as render him the fovereign lord on earth!
FINIS.
f INDEX
Digitized by Google
INDEX
TO
Lavater's Looking Glafs.
Page.
A .
A B Y S S IN IA N S 72
Accidents no Bar to Phy-
fiognomy 151
Adam’s Primitive State 12
Adam’s Apple 93
Admiration 43
Africans 22
Age 19
Age opprefled 147
Almonds 208
Americans 68
Amphibious Animals 187
Anatomy praifed in Poetry 12
Anatomy defended in Prole 32
Anatomical Explanations 111
Ancient Britons like Goats 176
Ancients, Bunglers in paint*
ing Infants 17
Ancient Greeks, their Syf-
tems, Ac. 29
Ankles 67
Angelo Michael 9, 158
Anger 45
Animals 166
Antelope 179
Antipathy 45
Antihelix 91
Antitragus 92
Anxiety 44
Ape 100
_ Apelles 37
Apoduoa ¿05
3
Apollo 20
Apollo di Belvedere, a Statue 22
Apple Trees 208
Appréhendons 44
Aquiline Noie 89
Arabs 32
Armenians 22, 67
Arms, human 49
Arrangement of Profiles 140
Ariftotle 163
■Arteries 1 1g
Art defcribed 124
Artichoke 206
Afiatics 69
Afs 176
Atlas, Mount 67
Attention a Sign of Wifdom 154
Audacity 45*
AW' B. «
Baboon 167
Barbary 72, &ç.
Bardon’s Paffions 43
Barley 204
Bat 179
Bath, Painter 160
Beans 208
Beauty’s Claims, Introduction 2
Beauty defcribed 18, 22, 36
Beaver 179
Bébé, the Dwarf 64
Beech 201
Bees 193
Bengal
D ' j by Google
?
Bengal
Blackamoors
Blnmenbac
Bolton and Watt, of
near Birmingham
Boar
Bonnet
Borage
Boys defcribed
Brains
Breaft
Brandt
Bohme, Jacob
Bozandians
Brazilians '
Buffon
Bulkley
Buffalo
Bull
Bufts
Butterfly
, c.
Cabbages
Caianus, the Giant
Caflraria
Calf’s-muzzle
Calicut
Callot
Calraoucks
Campbell
Camel
Cameleon .
Camera Obfcura
Cambaye
Camper on Skulls
Canada
Cardan
Carbuncles no Bar
Carrots
Caterpillars
Cats
Ceylon
Chamois
Circaifians
Childhood
IN D E X . 2 1 1
P ag«.
69 Childs, Bankers ■
¿
R
7 2 Chinefe aSi *7
53 Cheeks 85, 14«
bo, Chin 9 *
190 Congo 73
»77 Cock 18»
*7° Contempt 4 5
205 Cooke, Captain 7*» 7 1
17 Connor Bernard 5 9
112 Contradiction 4 5
5 ° Conifere Plants 2O8
160 Commerion 63
163 Coromandel 7I
83 Com 2O4
69 Complexions 6 6
'5 4 > 59 Courage 43
12 Copper-coloured 6 8
«77
178
Cprpfes
Conicans u
48 ' Cofmos 37
192 Crown-work
Crocodile
n z
188
206 Cupid
Cuftoms fatal
D.
18
60
73
26
203 Daffodil 204
* 4 Danae’s Picture 18
t6o Dancing Hours, Introduction 3
23 Danes * 66
12 Daubenton 60
176 Davis’s Streight 23
187 Defcartes, Introduction 4
105, 15 7 Devos 160
71 Deriiion 43
53 Dimples 86
70 Dicotylédones 201
65 Dioiques 204
84 Difappointment 45
204 Diflike 45
196 Difdain 45
177 Diftruft ,4 5
24 Doronic so i
178 Dove 181
20, 23, 67 Dominichiai 18
16 Drawing 156
P a Dow,
Digitized by Google
%
2 1 2 I N D E X .
- P
ag
*
*
Dow, Gerard 159
Dutchman’s Skull, Introdu&ion 6
JDrefs dangerous 26
Dwarfs 65
Dromedary 176
Ducks 182
E.
Eagle 181
Ears 91, 105
Echinodernes 196
Egyptians 72
•Elephant 189
Elm 201
Englifh 66
Englifh Rifles 57, 117
EnglifhLanguage, in the
Addrefs 3
Envy 45
Engravings, Title-page, &c.
131, 178, 179
Erlxeben 52
Efkimaux 70
Ethiopians 72
Euler 167
European Ladies 28
Eve's Eye 79
Eyes 80
Eye-lids, &c. 80
Expreflion in Painting, or
in Phyfiography 39
Extremities of the Body 96
F.
Faces, their Form 131
Falcon 181
Fafhions 26, 27
Fear 46
Feeling 105
•Fern 204
Filberts 208
Fingers 125
Finland 67
Fir • 209
Fifhes 185
Flax 203
FJower-de-Juce 204
Page.
Flight 46
Fly 193
Forehead 78 ,120
Foot 99
Foulefe 72
Fox 178
Frederick the Great 57
Frogs 188
Frontometre 144
French 66
French Women, Introduction 4
Friend of the Table 147
Fuiy 46
Fuieli 160
G.
Galen, Introduction 4
Gambia 72
Ganges 52
Garrick 107
Genius, Introdu&ion 2
Genius defcribed , 8
Georgians and Germans 6$
Geranium 207
Ghaftlinefs 45
Gibbon 169
Giants 60, 62
Giily 60
Glow-worms 196
Goliath \ 60
Golthius 160
Gnats 194.
Goats 175
Goree 72
Grace 36
Grafshopper 194
Greeks 18, 33, 34
Grecian Statues 15, 57
Grecian Noie 83
Greenlanders 20
Grief 46, 147
Griffin 182
Grins, &c. 46, 85
Giulio Romano 9
Guido 159
Guiana 21
Guinea
Digitized by Google
INDEX« 2 1 S
Page.
Guinea 24
Gratarole, Dr. 164
Gums
H.
88
Haller’s Eftimate 59
Haller’s odd Feature ' *35
Habicot’s Error 61
Hagen, J. D e 163
Hands 97
Handel - 107
Harlot's Progrefs *59
Hare " *75
Hawk 181
H azelTrees 208
Heart’s-eafe ?©6
Helix 9 *
Head 47, 76, 86
Heels 50
Hemlock ’ 201
Helvetius 42
Hiftory neceflary 146
H °g 176
Hogarth *59
Hoden 72
Holland, New 24
Hope 46
Homer 17 1
Horfe 170
Hottentots 21
Houfe-leek 201
Hubert *93
Hudfon’s Bay 24
Hunter, Dr.
I.
Idiot
12
144
Imaus 5 2
Independence a Qualifica­
tion for Studying Faces J45
Indians 52
Indifference 45
Infancy 16
Infult 45
Irritation 45
Java 7 *
Pagp-
Jaw-bone 133
Jealoufy - 45
Jenkins, of Rome 161
Jafmine 205
Jupiter 16, 18
Juniper 20$
Jones, an honeft Refiner of
Drugs i t
K.
Kabarandiikis 67
Kant’s Clafles of Mankind 5z
King of Prullia 5?
Rifles 57, 117» 123
Knees 50
Kneller 159
L.
Labrador 24
La Condamine $6
Laocoon, a Trunk 95
Lavater’s Picture 4, 147
Lavaterian School 124, 140
La Chambre 164
La Fage 160
Lairefle 160
Laughter n o
Languor 44
Laplanders 65, 70
Larynx 93
Laurel 205
La Peroufe 7 *
Leaping 103
Languages a Qualification
forStudyingPhyfiognomy 145
Le Brun 43, 108, 156
Legs . 50
L e Sueur 159
Leyde 160
Lily 199, 204
Lion 177
Lips 88, 11S
Locke 144
Longing 46
Love, and its EfFe&s 45
Lucan 172
Lunatics
Digitized by Google
214 INDEX.
Lunatics
Page.
136 Muralt ^
Page.
65
Lynx *79 M úfeles *7
M. Muihrooms 20$
Macreath 59 N .
Madagafcar 73 Nails 4 9
Madder 206 NarciiTus 5°
Madnefs 36, 44, *36 Natolians 67
Malabar 7 A Nature’s Book t i , 126
Malacca 73 Necks 93, ISO
Malaguatta 73 Negroes <59» 7*
Malays 71 Nerves 106, ro7
Maldivas 7 > Nervous Syftem 119
Mallows 207 Nettles 20c
Man 479 119 Newton’s Statue 144
Man of the Wood 169 Newland, Abraham 57
Marbitius, Founder ofa new Neapolitans 66
Syftem *63 Nigritia 72
Marne, River 76 Norfolk Dwarf 65
Marly Machine 190 Nofe 8a, 83
May-bug *94 O.
Mechanic Principles taught Oats 204
by Serpents 190 Old Age
Old Man abandoned
*9
Medals H 5 »47
Melancholy IA3 Olympic Games 34
Mengs, Painter *59 Omaguas 21
Mexicans 53 Ombellifer 206
Michael Angelo 9, 158 Oppreifion 4 5 » «47
MiiEifippi .
Microicopic Worms
70 Orator of the Heart 87
*95 Otaheitans 7 *
Milton 79 Ofteology 132
Mingreiians 67 Oitiacks 70
Minerva 8» Oftrich J83
Mirth 4 4 Ouran-outang 108
Moguls 67 Owl 182
Moluccas 7 1 Ox 178
Mollufcular Worms 196 P.
Monocotyledones 201 Painting, Introdtóion, Ac.
Montaigne 9 7
Painters
40, 86
Monkey 167, 176 *58
Morin 161 Palm of the Hand 4 9
More, Jacob, of Rome r6i Palm Trees 204
Morocco 67 Panama 68
Mofs *03 Pangs of Death
Panly
4 4
Mouth 87 207
Mountaineers 176 Papous 24
Mulattoe* 7 4
Parrots
Digitized by Google
INDEX* 2 1 5
Page.
182
163
206
43
70
65
ZO$r
7 *
7*
208
182
162
16
Parrot«
Farfons
Parfley
Paffions
Paraguay
Patagonians *
Peas
Peruvians
Periiant
Pear Trees
Pelican
Pemetti
Phidias
Philippine Iilands 53
Phyiiographical W liters 162
Phyfiognomy 124, 140
Pine 209
Plain-dealer 1r5
Plants 198
Plato’s^Eftimate «7
Poles 66
Polypodes 204
Polypufes 197
Poetry 12, 57, 79, 86, 88, 106,
107, 122, 147, 171, 17a
Original 136
Quotations 42
Verfes 178
Pope, Alexander
PoufHn
Poole
Porta
Proteus
Pregnancy
Profiles
Quimos
Rabbit
Racine
Rage
Raillery
Raphael
a.
R?
172
*58
123
162
*95
28
137
63
*75
5 4
, 43
45
159
Raptures
Rembrandt
Reaumur/
Regret
Reynolds, Sir Joihua
Riolan
Rofa Salvator
Rofe
Roufleau, J. J.
Rubens
Running
Page.
4 4
160
*93
4 4
*59
61
*59
*99
4 *
.58
103
205
70
66
5 4
4 4
160
72
4 4
Sage
Samoyedes
Sardinians .
Savages
Satisfa&ion
Scullenberg
Senegal
Senfibility
School for Students of Phy-
fipgnomy 164
Senfes, Five 105*
Sierra Leone 73
Serpents ' 190
Sheep 175
Siamefe %z
Singing 44
Shadows, or Silhouettes 139
Silhouettes 139
Sleep I43
Skulls 6 j , i 42
Sicilians | ^
Shakefpeare 87
Soles of the Feet 50
Speech is*
Spallanzani 187
Spaniards 66
Spine 82
Smiles 86
Swaddling-clothe« 26
Spranger 160
Stael, Baronefs De, Intro­
duction 4
Stupidity 85
Swammerdam
Digitized by Google
2 1 6 INDEX.
Page. Pag*.
Swammerdam *93 Vegetables 108
Swarthy People 69 Venetian Ladies *7
Syftem of Nature 35 Venus 20, 158
Switzerland 5 9 Veins 112
Swan 182 Vengeance 45
Swedes 66 Vexation 4 4
T . Violet 199
Tartarians 71 Vinci, Leonard de 10
Teeth 89, 90 Virtue's Impreifions, &c.
Temple Bar 161 36>49
Temple 79 Virgil I72
Teniers *59 Voice *5 *
Terra del Fogo 7 1 Vulture 182
Terror 45 W .
Teftaceous Worms 196 Walk 103
Teutobochus 60 Watelet’s Divifion of the
Thighs 50 Pailions 4 4
Thynne, Dr. 12 Wafp 192
Tiger 177 Weafel 178
Timidity 4 5 Wens 93
Titian 158 Weft, the Painter 160
Toads 188 Weft Indies 70
Tongue 105 Wheat 204
Torio il 9 4 Willows 208
Tortoife 189 Wild Girl of Chalons 5 4
Touch 105 Wilkenboon 160
Tuberofe ’ 199 Women - 20
Tulip 199 Worms * *93
Turns 72 Y.
Tunquinefe 22 Yellowiih People 6
Trinity 206 Youth 37
Tragus 92 Z.
Turks *5 Zanbaga 7 *
V. Zeuxis *5
Van Dyke *59 Zoophytes . *97
n iM T Il> BY M» RITCHIE, MIDDLE STREET, C10TH FAIR.
Digitized by Google
