{"name":"Rise And Dissolution Of The Infidel Societies","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1800__reid___rise_and_dissolution_of_the_infidel_societies.pdf","mytitle":"Rise And Dissolution Of The Infidel Societies","mylang":"de"}
TH E
RISE a n d DISSOLUTION
OF T H E . '
IN THIS METROPOLIS i
INCLUDING,
T H E O R I G I N O F M O D E R N D E I S M A N D A T H E I S M ;
■ T H E G E N I U S A N D C O N D U C T OF T H O S E
A S S O C I A T I O N S ; T H E I R L E C T U R E -
R O O M S , F I E L D - M E E T I N G S ,
A N D D E P U T A T I O N S ;
From the Publication of P a i n e ’s A ge of R ea son till
the prefent Period.. •
_______________
________ /N'l- ' — s , _____ .
$«V xO m f £1MM cotpo't, IfAZTgoll/iriqfy. ST. P A U L .
W I T H -
General Confiderations on the Influence o f Infidelity upon
Society ; anfwering the various Objections o f Deills
and Atheifts ; and a Poftfcript upon the prefent
• State of Democratical Politics ; "Remarks
upon Profeffor Robifon’s late
W ork, &c- &c, .
B y W ILLIA M HAM ILTON REID.
LONDON:
P R I N T E D F O R J . H A T C H A R D , B O O K S E L L E R T O H E R
M AJ E S T Y , N O . 173, P I C C A D I L L Y .
. 1800.
T. Burton, Printer, > -
LitUcQueea-(treec. $
Digitized by U j O O Q l e
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION
I H E Reader is candidly informed, that the
mention of Infidel Societies, by the Biihop of
London, in hiS late excellent charge, was a
forcible motive for digeiling the narrative con­
tained in this work. After the enumeration
of its contents, in the title-page^ is fcarcely
neceflary tp infill upon this ney&kmd impor-.
tant sera, herein defcribed : nfibofi becaufe it
delineates the firit period in which the doctrines
of Infidelity have been extenfively circulated
among the lower orders ; and important, becaufe
the trial they have had, as it will appear in the
lequel, has decidedly pronounced upon their
weaknefs, and abfolute incapacity to ameliorate
or improve the llate and condition of mankind.
Profeil'or Robifon and the Abbé Barruel,
it is acknowledged, have given an infereiling
account of fimilar focieties in France and Ger-
• A 2 many,
Digitized by L.oop le
IV introduction.
many, previous to the late revolution ; but if
thefe are to be regarded as an illuftration o f
the monition
“ Nam tua res agitur paries cum proximus ardet,” ,
the firing of a neighbour’s houfe ihall be edeem­
ed trivial indeed, in companion with a mine
that was ready to burff our under feet! W ith
the exigence of thefe Englifh affiliations, it is
probable, that, few of the higher orders were
acquainted; but their extenfive influence and
energies, certainly communicate a degree of
intereil to the detail here given, as the firft
account of them.
The Author of this undertaking, having
been involved in the dangerous delufion he
now explodes, may reafonably be admitted a
competent witnefs of the events which he re­
lates ; as may alfo the prefumption, that he has
demonftrated the impracticability of the Infidel
fcheme, not merely from fpeculation, to which
former writers have been confined, but from
faffs deduced from real life and actual ex­
perience. -
Like our predeceffors, we are then no longer
under the neceflity of arguing without a living
precedent; on the contrary, we have feen the
■ '' .j . principles
Digitized by Google ■
INTRODUCTION- V
principles of Jnfidelity transferred from booh
to men-, from dead charafters to living fubje&s';
not among a few ifolated or fpeculative indi­
viduals, but in numerous and compact bodies.
W hat was formerly a difpute, is thus brought
upon a new ground; and from the hetero­
geneous compofition of this upftart body, the
queilion “ Whether a Society of Atheiils can '
“ fubfiil ?" it is prefumed, may now be decided
in the negative.
Agreeable to this ilatement, Mr. Robert Hall,
of Cambridge, in the preface to his Sermon in­
tituled, Modern Infidelity confidered, &c. obferves,
that the cotroverfy between Infidels and Chriil-
ians appears to have taken a new turn : the in­
fluence of Infidelity upon fociety, he fays, is a
point hitherto little confidered. The prefent
expofure of thefe opinions, by one who has
witnefied their molt fecret operations; and
the moil unqualified expreilion of the views of
thofe who efpoufed them, may awaken the
rancour of Infidel fanatics; but this he pre­
fumes, will be more than counter balanced by
the approbation of the learned and fober-
minded of all Chriftian denominations. As for
the probable defe£ls of this work, in point of
i ‘ ilyle,
Digitized by Google
ftyle, or in the art of compofition, my apology
to the learned is, that it was written upon the
fpur of the oecaiion, and currente calamo.
Perhaps thé relative obfcurity of thefe affi­
liations may have been the reafon they were
not iooner noticed} as, in refpett to their lo­
cality in this metropolis, it muft be confeifed
they bear fome refemblance with the Parifian
Fauxbourgs of St. Antoine, &c.
After the faithful delineation of fails, in
this work, it is hoped, Infidels will no longer
claim the character of Philofophers ! If Philo-
fophy has any connection with the conduil of
the human mind, towards the Chief-good, it is
not the Infidel, but the rational Chriftian,
who'has the beft right to that high diftinilion ;
for, “ the man who happily unites Philofophy
with Religion, is the dupe, neither of fcepti-
cifm, fuperftition, or fanaticifm.”
Were I at liberty to mention federal eminent
literary characters, who have honoured this
work with their attention, while in manu-
feript, it might be conftrued into an attempt
to bias the public opinion} but, till that deci^
fion is pronounced, the Author alone, is re-
fponfible for the whole j I am therefore “ ready
to
yi introduction.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. Vil
. i :
to prove any thing I have hated, if called
upon.” *
Quodfcripji, fcripji.
The importance of the fubject at large, might
have been enhanced by fuperior abilities; but
relative to its religious truths, I am not afraid
of concluding with the exulting ilrains of the
Roman Poet:
Jam exegi quod nec Joins ira, nec ignes,
Ncc potuitforrum, nec edax abolcre vetuftas. -
TH E
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
THE
RISE a n d DISSOLUTION, & c.
CHAP. I.
Upon fome remote andthe immediate Caufesof thelate
Rife and Progrefs of Infidelity .— Patronage of
the Age of ReaJ'on by the London Uoveefponding
Society.— Mirabend's Syftcm De la Nature.—
Volneys Ruins of Empires.—Conver/ion of the
Divijion-Iiooms into the Mediums of Infidelity.
T o fuppofe the late inclination to infidelity, to
•have been the refult of cool inquiry, or national
conviftion, would be a grofs libel upon the good
fenfe of the country. On the contrary, the mpft
prominent reafon which can be given for this pew
prapenfity is, that the public mind was taken by
furprize, merely through the medium by which
the evil complained of was obtruded by a certain
fociety, aflifted by the, politics of the, moment.
With thefe politics, it was fuppofed the new
religion would blend and unite ; and to the ntif-
B applied
Digitized by C i o o o l e
• C ' a ]
applied zeal of this fociety, and its partizans out of
doors, the ihort-lived increafe of thofe opinions
was owing. .
Still there were other caufes which, though
feemingly remote, had an immediate effeft upon
the minds of many who were waiting to avail
themfelves of any public event to promote a par­
ticular obje£t. It being a general tradition among
Proteftants, that the feat of the Roman Catholic
religion was to be annihilated, it unfortunately
occurred, that, as the French were fuccefsful, after
the period of the revolution, in defpoiling that
church, notwithftanding their general efpoufal of
infidelity, their admirers ftill fuppofed them to be
the inftruments of fulfilling their favourite predic­
tion j and were fo much the eafier perfuaded to
adopt French principles in religion, while they
excufed the perpetrators of deeds, at which they
could not but ihudder, under the idea that the for­
merwere the feleft. agents of Providence; and thus,
from the dereliction of one religious denomination,
they were led, by an eafy gradation, to wiih for the
deftruCtion of all the reft.
From hence, under the idea of the inftrumenta-
lity of the French revolution, in the fulfilment of
prophecies, religion itfelf became acceffary to
deilm and atheifm ! Prophecies, relative to the de-
ftruCtion of almoft every kingdom and empire in
the world, teemed from the Britiih prefs, fome of
them in weekly numbers, till government, perfect*
]y aware of the tendency of thefe inflammatory
means, prudently transferred the prince of prophets
to a mad-houfe, -
It was natural for infidels, who had a revolution
in view, to connive at thofe enthufiafts who believed
ih vulgar predictions relative to the deftruCtion of
Popery; it was natural alfo forthe former to embrace
. fetch
Digitized by Google
fuch converts; but the attachment theyobtained front
thofe chara fters, who had the leall remains of true
religion, was of very ihort duration ; as the gene­
ral habit of ridiculing eveiy thing before held fa-
cred, frequently created difguft, and occafioned a
revolt from a party, who, notwithftanding all their
profeflions about a general improvement of the
morals of men, could not conceal the little value
they fet upon pe?fonal reformation! juft as if the
aggregate of fociety was not made up of indivi­
duals. In fa£i, to have hinted any thing, relative
to religious'impreffions, though with all the modi­
fications of a Socinian, would have ftigmátized its
author as a mere ideot, or driveller, among thqfe
modern fages and pretended reformers. The Rev.
Henry Kett, in his ftriking application of the Scrip­
tures in his Hijlory, the heft Interpreter of Prophecy,
feems to impute too little, to the fecret and almoft im­
perceptible operations of Infidelitythrough the whole
courfe of the laft century, efpecially in the interval
between the publication of Bolingbroke’s works,
and the year 1776. This hiatus, not to keep my
readers from the contemplation of more recent'
danger, I fhall endeavour to fupply in my poft-
fcript, only obferving at prefent, as the immediate
caufe of the late rife and progrefs. of infidelity, that
an Englifhman in Paris, the head of a political
party here, probably wiihing to revive his popula­
rity in France, produced that laft effort of religious
Quixotifm, the Age of Reafori. The early predi-
le£tion of the London Correfponding Society for
this performance, was the foie medium which,, for
the fjrft time, made infidelity as familiar as poflible
with tfie lower orders. But the experiment
thus tried, inftead of confolidating the wild
theory of. its authors, has only furniihed their
V B 2 Chriftian
' [ 3 ]• -
Digitized by Googl
[ 4 1
Chriftiaft opponents with the ftrongeft grounds of
objeition. •
It may now be faid, that the fptendid theories
of Voltaire have been reduced to practice ; the in*-
paffioned eloquence of John James Rouffeau ap­
plied to the objefts defignated by its author; and
that the pertnefs and fcurrility of Thomas Paine
have been added : but all thefe efforts have been,
and Will ftill be found illufory, as will farther ap­
pear from a faithful ftatement of recent events, -and
fuch reflections as naturally refult therefrom.
If fhe faffs I am about to adduce were not Well
Warranted, pofterity would not believe, that m
confequence of the publication of k 'rhapfody
againft the doftfines of Chriftianity, hazarded by
a theoretical politician in 1794, and under favour
of the French revolution, a very confiderable num­
ber of our countrymen adopted his notions ; and
became equally as violent for the extermination of
the Chriftian religion, as for the remedy of thofe
riril dbvfes, for which alone their fociety was at .
firft ettabliihed 1 • ‘ -
Without experience'of the fail, who would be­
lieve that while the infatuated difciples of the new
philofophy were declaiming againft their clergy,
for mingling politics with religion, they themfelves,
employed miffionaries to add deifm to the demo­
cracy of their converts! Or, who would credit
that every religious obligation, in civilized fociety,
was refitted as prieftcraft, by the fame perfons who
were the loudeft in their demands, for what they
chefe to difguife with the name of a reform !
Perhaps this mania, in its firft appearance, may
be attributed to an implicit belief in moft of its
advbcates, that the new philofophy would produce
better effeffs upon the manners of fociety,. than
, ' . „ the ,
the religion of their forefathers had done* But how
ftrongly the practice of the philofophers has belied
die theory, will evidently appear m the impartial
examination of their public -conduit, which, as
propagandifts, would have been much more
alarming,had their fecret activity been appreciated
fooner. •
i t is ftill fair to admit, that the adoption of
Paine’
«' Age of Reafan was not agreed, to in the
Imndon Correfponding Society, without coniidera-
ble oppolltion, efpecially in the general committee;
but -as zeal fuperfeded judgment, in their difeuf-
fions upon the fubje£t, the epithets of d-m-d fool,
and d-m -d Chriftxan, ultimately prevailed; and a
bookfdllex was foon perfuaded, by the heads -of
the party, to undertake a cheap edition of the
Age of Reafon, for its more ready diflemination
through the divifions, at that time rapidly in-
creating in number every w eek: but after Williams,
the bookfeller juft alluded to, was impriioned fqr
this publication, his family received much left
- affiftance from the fociety, than from mere
ftrangers.
In the hour of its admiration, this thapfody was
xidicukmfly termed the New Holy Bible; a circum-
ftance which fully evinced the intentions ,of Mr,
Paine’s partizans : in fine, the attachment of the
party was carried io far, that the bare oircumflance
of having the Age of Reafon in a houfe, was
deemed a collateral proof of the civifm of the pof-
ieflbr.
It may be urged, that this conduct of the fociety
Was never juftified by any a£t of the body at large;
this is granted ; but when it is confidered, that
their inclination for deifm waslufficiently powerful
to -occaiion a fchifm, which produced a newfociety,
.• ■ under
t 5 ] ■
Digitized by Google
under the denomination of the Civil and Religious;
h follows, that the preponderance of a party, in
the- original body, was equal •to a deciiion of the
whole, and fixes the charge of a partiality to
infidelity, beyond the poflibility of a doubt.
If farther proofs were wanting, I might urge the
circumftaqce of the eftabliihment of a teft, by the
newly formed body, in which, each member ac­
knowledged the belief of the Holy Scriptures, and
that Chrijl is the Son of God; and this as a necef-
fary qualification for their admiflion. This faft
alone, I prefume, would be fufficient for my pur-
Cfe ; to which may be added, that Bone and
e, two feceding members, and bookfellers by
profeliion, were proferibed for refufing to fell Vol-
ney’s Ruins, and Paine’s Age of Reafon ; and that
refufal conftrued into a cenfure upon the weaknefs
of their intelle&s. Still, nothing like a miraculous
converfion of the London Correfponding Society js
to be imputed to Mr. Paine’s Anti-theological
Work. On the contrary, their minds were pre­
pared for this more popular performance, by tbe
more learned and elaborate productions of Mira-
baud’s Syftem of Nature, and Volney’s Ruins of
Em pires: the latter, in point of ftyle, is looked
upon as the Hervey of the Deifts j the former, as
the Newton of the Atheifts : and, as the Syftem of
Nature was tranilated by a perfon confined in
Newgate as a patriot, and publiihed in weekly
numbers, its fale was puihed, from the joint mo-,
tive of ferving the Author, and the caufe in which
the London Correfponding Society were engaged.
Northcote’s Life of David was alfo reprinted in
a very fmall edition ; and if this vehicle for de­
grading the Bible had been better received, it was
.in agitation to biographize all the leading charac-.
. . ters
[ 6 ] -
Digitized by
ters in the Old and New Teftaments, as the molt
certain means of bringing the Chriftian religion
into contempt.
Propofals were circulated for reprinting the
whole works of Peter Annet ; much being expect­
ed from the plainnefs of his ftyle; arid his mode of
reafoning againft revelation by fcriptural quota­
tions j but, owing to the dread of a profecution,
not more than three weekly numbers, at three-
halfpence each, made their appearance. The
Rights and Duties of Citizenihip, molt remarkable
for copying the blunders of Voltaire, was one of
the lail things, of this kind, ufliercd into public
view ; -but being profecuted, and the publifliers
fcntenced to two years folitary imprifonmentr a
final flop was put to this mode of promoting feep-
ticifm and infidelity. .
The Beauties of Deifm ; A Moral Dictionary ;
Julian againft Chriftianity ; and, laftly, that para­
gon of French Atheifm, L e B o n S e n s , O il Idées
Naturelles oppofes aux Idées Surnaturelles, were in
agitation to have followed. The latter, for its au­
dacity and virulence, has poflibly never been fur-
pafied, and its laft feCtion is probably no bad fum-
mary of the whole.
“ La religion, n’a fait en tout terns que rem­
“ plir l’efprit de l’hôrrime de tenebres et le retenir
“ dans l’ignorance de fes vrais rapports, de fes
“ vrais devoirs, de fes intérêts véritables. Ce n’eft
f.‘ qu’en écartant fes nuages et fes phantômes que
“ nous découvrirons les fources du vrai, de la
“ raifon, de la morale, 8c les motifs reels qui doi-
“ vent nous porter à la vertu. Cette religion nous
“ donne le change, & fur les caufes de nos maux
f,c 8c fur les remedes naturels que nous pourrions,
“ y appliquer : loin de les guérir, elle ne peut
w que les aggraver, les multiplier, 8c les rendre
f‘ plus
. C 7 }
Digitized by C i O O Q l e
l » I
" plus durables. Difons done avec un cejebre
“ moderne, /a Theologie eft la boite de Pandora;
" S
T .?’// e/2 impojfible de la refermer, il eft au~
“ mo/ai d’avertir que cette boeteft fatale eft
“ ouverleft
Impregnated with the principal objections of all
the infidel writers, and big with •the fancied im­
portance of being inftrumental in a general reform,
almoft every divilion-room could now boaft its ad­
vocate for the new philofophy. In fail, fuch a
torrent of abufe and declamation appeared to burfb
from all quarters at once, that as the idea of a
JDetft and a good Democrat feemed to have been
univerfally compounded, very few had the courage
to oppofe the general current. On the other hand,
feveral perfons really facrificed their private fenti-
ments to the public opinion, merely to avoid the,
contempt every where bellowed upon thofe who
dared to open their mouths in defence of principles
and opinions, till then held facred.
Next to longs, in which the clergy were a Hand­
ing fubjeft of abufe; in conjunction with pipes
and tobacco, the tables of the club-rooms were
frequently flrewed with penny, two-penny, and
three-penny publications, as it were fo many fwi-
vels againft eftablilhed opinions ; while, to enable
the members to furnilh themfelves with the heavy
artillery of Voltaire, Godwin, &c. reading-clubs
were formed. But ftill, fo it happened, that thofe
who defpifed the labour of reading, took their
creeds implicitly, from the extemporaneous effu-
iions of others, whofe talents were comparatively
above their own. And yet thefe people were in­
variably in the habit of ridiculing Chriftians, in
concert with the orators, for being blindly led by
priefis.
8 ( After
Digitized by Google
r
L
After thefe notions of infidelity were in a mart-
her eltabliffied in the divisions, it is natural to fup-
pofe, that in chooiing their delegates, thofe pcr-
lons were preferred who were doubly recommend­
ed by their religion, and their politics; in fait,
this was fo prevalent, that in the recommendation
of any perfon to an office among them, it was
common to diltinguilh him as “ A good Democrat
“ and a Deijl." . Or, to fix ,the character more
ftrongly, to add, “ That he is no Chriftian
However, from this period, when the leaders
began to force their anti-religious opinions upon
their co-aflbciates, it is undeniable that their in-
teftine divifions haitened their diflolution more
than any external obltacles.
I ihall now proceed to a detail of the recent places
of rendezvous, as they were held by thefe per­
turbed fpirits, which, 1 hope, will not be deemed
trivial. The once famed Robin Hood Society had
feveral hiltorians in profe and verfe; and yet, un­
like its fuccefibrs, it combined no political with
its fo-called religions views. In its decline alone
it bore the molt refemblance to the modern clubs,
in the defeftion of many of its belt members, when
the confequences of their difeuffions, aiding upon
the public morals, appeared to them in a different
light from what they feemed at firlt.
c CHAP.
Digitized by Google
[ 10 ]
CHAP. II.
Of various new Societies, Field-Meetings, and
Deputations.— Their Conduct and Progreß.—.
Violence of the Clubbißs againft the Clergy.—
Effects of their Enthujiafm upon their Auditors.
— Propagandas in the Benefit and Convivial
Societies.
O n e of the firft of thefe affociations was fixed
in the club-room of the Green Dragon, in Fore-
ftreet, near Cripplegate, in the fpring of 1795.
That apartment was then occupied by a Reading
Society, which was foon fwallowed up in the vortex
of the enfuing debate, and was fo much crowded,
in a very ihort time, as to render an entrance, as
well as refpiration, extremely difficult.
That no opportunity might be loft, a queftion,
fubverfive of the Chriftian religion, was alfo agi­
tated, in the fame room, on a Wednefday evening ;
but being very thinly attended, it was found ne-
ceflary to pay both the fpeakers and prefident, out
. of the money collected from the audience.
On the other hand, the debate on a Sunday
-evening always drew a crowded audience, during
a twelvemonth, in which it was continued at that
houfe; when, upon the complaint of fome of
the neighbours, that the landlord kept bad hours,
(as the difputes above and below ftairs feldom ter­
minated before one in the morning) they were
compelled to leave the premifes, to prevent worfe
confequences to the keeper of the houfe.
, Their
Digitized by Google
[ n ]
Their fittings were afterwards alternately held
_ at a houfe in Windmill-ftreet, Finibury-fquare;
and at the George, in Eaft Harding-ftreet, Fetter-
lane, which, being a very commodious room, the
noife made by the clapping of the fpeakers, and the
late hours kept by the company, occafionedr a
complaint, that, being immediately attended to,
by a worthy officer of the ward, not far from the fpot,
the club was removed to the Fountain, in Fetter-
lane, and again hunted from its new retreat, till
they ultimately fettled at the Scots Arms, in Little
Britain, and were as numeroufly attended as at
any former period: here they continued the greateft
. part of the winter of 1797, but being compelled
to leave it, through the magiftrate’s interference,
the landlord was afterwards deprived of his licence
for entertaining them. Its next ftage of exiftence
was at the Golden Key, near Moor-lane, Moor-
fields ; but here it attracted fo great a concourfe
of attendants, that the landlord, dreading the
confequence«, warned them away: this was alfo
the cafe at another houfe, near Union-itreet,
Moorfields; till, adjoining to the Britiffi Wine-
houfe, near Hoxton, beyond the limits of' the
city-officers, they carried on their difquifitions,
near two months, without meeting with any new
embarraffment. .
In the interval, between the fpring of 1795
and the period laft fpoken of, feveral other fo-
cieties, upon a fmaller fcale, had been fet on
foot: one of thefe, the next, in point of promife,
to that of the Green Dragon, was intitled, “ The
Moral and Political Society,” who, like the former,
converted their place of meeting, near Bunhill-row,
into a Debating-room. A few revolutionary
pamphlets, written and printed at the fociety’s
. C 2 expence,
Digitized by Google
[ 12 ]
. . v
' expcnce, were publiflied, during the interval tct
which I have alluded.
Similar meetings were alfo held at a public
houfe, near Grub-itreet; and another, near the
quarters of Moorfields.
Another, and one of the laft places of any
note for the exhibition of infidelity, in the
eaftern diftrift, was at a Hair-drefler’s in the
Iligh-ftreet, Shoreditch, where a theological ques­
tion was debated, on a Sunday evening; but, as
, no money was taken ,at the door, the law, then
in force, was evaded.
Several other fmall branches fpread themfelvcs
in the neighbourhood of Whitechapel, Spital-
ficlds, and Hoxton; but were not of futheient
notoriety, or duration, to merit much attention.
The Weft end of the metropolis, having in th&
mean' while attained to a degree of rivalfliip,
in confequence of an aftociation, in Wells-ftreet,
Oxford-road, where the members were permitted
to recite their own productions; and another,
on a Sunday evening, much" more numeroufly
attended, viz. the Angel, in Cecil-court, St. Mar­
tin’s Lane. Thofe neareft the city were, in fome
meafure, deferted ; but, as they clofed their de­
bates Sooner than thofe at the weft end of the
town, fome of the fpeakers contrived to exhibit
at two places on the fame night: even the wea­
ther prefented but few obftacles. The vifionary
expectation of a new order of things, it is pre-
•fumed, often vibrated from the imaginations of
the leading members to their fingeri ends, and
rendered them lefs fenfible of the operations of
the elements than the vulgar herd.
The Wells-ftreet Society being diftolvcd, in
confequence of fome difagreement among the
niembers, the whole focus of Deifm and Athcifm
was
Digitized by Google
was concentrated at the Angel, in Cecil-court,
St. Martin’s Lane, where a mingled difplay of
real talent and miferable imitation was continued,
on the Sunday and Wednefday evenings, till Feb-
rury, 1798; when, without any previous notice
from the Weftminfter-magiftrates, as had been
cuftomary in the city, a period was put to this
promifing fehool;. the whole of the members, and
others prefent, being -apprehended, and, the next
day, obliged to find fureties for their appearance,
to anfwer any complaint, at the next Quarter-
Seffion, at Guildhall, Weftminfter; but no bill
being found, the buiinefs ended with the with­
drawing of the recognizances of the parties, 57
in number; which would certainly have been
doubled, if the police-officers, fent to apprehend
the club; had flayed till the buiinefs of the evening
had commenced.
’ This meeting was then deemed wholly political1
an idea which could have no other foundation
than the filly appellation of citizen, made ufe of
by the members ; or the circumftance of its being
attended by John Binns, who was apprehended,
about the fame period this fociety was diflurbed,
in company with Arthur O ’Connor, in Kent. This
unexpe&ed ftroke of juftice, however, put the laft
hand to the Sunday-night meetings, at the wejt
end of the tow n; the affociators in that quarter,
after holding a few thin fittings, at a houfe near
Compton-ftreet, Soho, being completely difperfed.
Previous to the eifabliihment of the club at this
place, another had been continued a cortfiderable
time, on a Wednefday evening, at a public houfe,
the corner of Long-Acre, oppofite Newport-Mar-
ket. Here, as well as at the other places, the
queitions agitated were partly religious, and partly
political. . ■ .
In
Dig
In all thefe places, where anti-reiigious opinions
were Hated, it was furpriiing to obferve how
itrongly their novelty attracted the public mind.
The perfection to which the orators had attained,
by a long pra&ice, was fuch, that had com­
modious apartments been opened in any of the
neighbourhoods, occupied by working people,
their can be no doubt of their commanding large
auditories. The zeal and energy of the fpeakers,
as there were few, very few, whofe judgement was
matured by time, had alfo great weight in making
converts; for, among the lower orders of people,
an extemporaneous harangue, againft the minifters
of religion, had an effeCt not eafily imagined.
This was particularly noticeable about Spitalfields,
when, as the French fyftem of politics infenfibly
attached itfelf to the auxiliary ideas of prophefies,
fulfilling on the Continent, it would be difficult
to fay, where the effeCts would have ceafed,
had time been given to obtain that confiftence
wiffied for by the vifionary movers of thofe irritable
bodies. ■
It may be objected, that thefe clubs were
only frequented by low and obfeure characters;
but fuch, it may be remembered, were Mallinello,
the Filherman of Naples, the Cobler of Meffina,
and many others: though the objection does not
altogether lie againft the focieties in queftion.
They were, for a time, fanCtioned by fome perfons
above the common rank; by their fortunes and
profeffions in life. Among thefe, a fingnlar cha­
racter ufed to be remarked, being in the habit o f.
attending in a large round hat, nearly the fize of an
umbrella, bordered with gold-lace; and he had
other eccentricities, which he ufed to vary accord­
ing to caprice. And to fortune and talents,
might be added, an enthufiafm capable of routing
1 the
' [ 14 ] . .
Digitized by C.ooQle
the moft infenfate to a£t againft what was
deemed a fpiritual tyranny, in the compulfory
payment of church-rates', to the amount or a few
pence per w eek! A favourite theme with fome of
the club-orators; with one of whom, it ufed to
be a common-place obfervation, that, “ There
" could not be a more awfullerfight in the world,
“ than to fee a Bijhop rolling about in his cha-
“ riot.” Of another of thefe enthufiafts it was
mentioned, “ That it was with difficulty he could
*
* reftrain the moft violent feelings, whenever the
“ prefent Archbiihop of Canterbury paifed under
“ his window.” After thefe traits of club-cha-
rafters, and among men with whom private a.(fafi-
fination was looked upon as no crime, one might
think, that even what has been contemptuoufly
called the pop-gun plot did not deferve that air
of incredibility and myftery thrown upon it by
fome writers. .
Still as the reins were then held by govern­
ment, very little was to be feared from any overt-
aits among thefe deferiptions ; •though, if theft
temporary ebullitions of zeal could be deemed a
fair criterion, this negative obedience might be
imputed more to a want of power than of will.
Vain glorv, and a blind refentment, as filly as
it is favage, often hurry men into the wildeft ex­
tremes.— I am an Atheift ! exclaimed one of thofe
perfons, and, jumping upon a club-room table;
here, faid he, holding up an infant, here is a young
Atheift! Another, to ihew how little he regarded
the Bible, obferved, at another meeting, 5
* That
“ juft before he came from home, he kicked fome-
“ thing. before him, and, picking it up, what
“ Ihould it be but an old Bible -
r that, till then,
** he did not know he had any. fuch thing in his
“ houfe! ” A third philofopher, cenfuring the
prefent
[ 15 ]
Digitized by Google
prefent mode of education, obferved, " There
“ would never be any good done, till towns and
“ cities were built without a fingle church, cha-
“ pel, or anyplace of worihip, in them! ” Another
member, being weary of the deliberations at which
he was prefent, exclaimed, “ What Jignifies our
“ fittins, here ? let us so and. kill all the bl— du
“ priejts ! ”
I mention thefe initances, only as the effects
of a party fpirit, breathing fentiments by no means
natural, but merely forced from the hot-beds of the
clubs.
It ihould be obferved, that as apprentices
were admitted into thefe affemblies ; and, ac­
cording to the modern notions of equality, eligi­
ble to the chair ; fo fudden a tranfition, from do­
' meftic inferiority to profeflional importance, often
turned a weak head : and, if the fame extremities
had been proceeded to as the religious fanatics of
the laft age were engaged in, the London appren­
tices might again have diftinguiihed themfelves,
and the cry of no king followed that of no bi/hopx
as a natural confequence. '
But in hinting at a parallel between modern
democratic zeal and the fanaticifm of the fixteenth
century; of the latter I ought to beg pardon.—
A degree of monftrofity, fufficient to make any
■humanized being ihudder, feems to have been
referved for the Engliih Clubbifts and Anti-Reli-
tigionijls of later times. — I allude to a common
toaft, which ufed to be received among, them
Avith acclamation, viz.
“ May the laft King be ftrangled in the bo-xels of the
« lii/t PricJ't !!! ”
In aferibing fo much of this intemperate zeal
-to party-fpirit, youth, and inexperience, every
■ * candid
[ 16 ! .
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
' . t ” ]
candid mind will acquit me of any charge of par­
tiality or mifreprefentation. An obfervation of
M r. Neckar’s may probably confirm the pro­
priety of the prefent application, by exhibiting
a ftriking fimilarity between the modem Free­
thinkers in France and thofe in England: “ We
“ now reckon, fays he, among thofe who oppofe
“ a contemptuous fmile to religious opinions, a
“ multitude of young people, often incapable of
“ fupporting the moil trivial arguments; and who,
“ perhaps, could not conne£t two or three abftrail
“ propofitions: thefe pretended philofophers art­
“ fully, and almoft perfidiouily, take advantage
“ of the firit flight of felf-love, to perfuade ber
“ ginners, that they are able to judge, at a glance,
“ of the ferious queftions which have eluded the
“ penetration of the moil exercifed thinkers.”
Initead then of reckoning, as many perfons have
done, upon the total abolition of Chriilianity, and
fondly anticipating the ,acquirements of the next
generation, as wholly Infidel, it ihould have been
made a queition, Whether the prefent generation
of the French will retain its Infidel principles
after its judgment is matured, and the hey-day
of revolutions has fubfided ?
4 But, to return; at the fame time that all thefe
energies were called forth in the clubs, it became
another branch of-the duty of the members, and
th,eir partizans, to attend, perplex, and harrafs, by
all poffible’ means, the itinerant preachers, in the
vicinity of town. For initance, during the fum-
mer, of 1191, a very formidable party were or­
ganized, and aflembled, every Sunday morning, at
feven o’clock, near the City-road: here, in con-
fequence of the debates, forced upon the preachers
or the hearers, feVeral groupe? of people would
remain upon the ground till noori? giving an op­
: D portunity
Digitized by Google
portunity to the unwary paflengers to become ac­
quainted with the dogmas of Voltaire, Paine, and
other writers, of whom they might have ret
mained in ignorance ; in fa£t, the fields were ret
forted to, by the new reformers, upon the fame
principle as a fportfman goes in quell of game :—•
“ We ihail be fure to find fome Chriftians In
“ the fields” was the Handing reafon for thefe
excurfions. '
So indefatigable were thefe propagandas in
their labours, that, befides their attendance on
the Sunday morning, in confequence of which
the groupes would remain till noon, they were
again alfembled from three or four in the after­
noon j and, if the weather permitted, retained till
eleven at night; and this not in one but various
parts of the environs of this metropolis. The
cavilling parties, engaged in this bufinefs, de­
murred at no diftance of place; being as ready
to attend at Hoxton, Hackney, or Hornfey, as at
their own doors. One of thefe bodies, I was
afterwards informed, ufed to meet, every Sunday
morning, in a garden near Bethnal-green, and,
after fpending fome time in reading and comment­
ing upon Paine’s Age of Reafon, diftributed them-
felves for the purpofes above-mentioned. ’ .
In fine, this oppofition from Delfts and Atheifts
was carried to fuch extremes,, that, in 1798, the
magiftrates were compelled to put a partial Hop
to field-preaching; till that period, ‘fts common
and habitual in the eaftern fuburbs, as it had been
.in Moorfields, previous to the ereftion of Finibury-
fquare. A meafure prompted intirely, by the ad­
vantages taken by the Infidel party, to propagate
their abfurd opinions with more effe.61.
In addition to the redoubtable army beforer
mentioned, marlhalled for every kind of attack,
■
’ . ’ ' ■ ' '■ ■ both-
[ 1» ]
Digitized by
both withih and beyond the fphere of the clubs*
a number, of ftraggling auxiliaries might be rec­
koned upon, who were drawn together by the
noife and alarm of the Field-Difputants. Thefe
confided of Myftics, Muggletonians, Millennaries,
and a variety of eccentric charafters of different
denominations: I call them auxiliaries, becaufe,
their ridiculous mode of defending, or enforcing*
their different tenets only increafed the objefifions
to the Chriftian Belief, in the minds of thofe per­
fons before unhinged by the fubtleties of Infidels*
and thus, unintentionally, an additional weight
was thrown into the fcale of the common enemy,
by thofe who had a zeal, but not according to
knowledge. Among the latter, were two preachers,
called Jew-Qiiakers, from the circumftance of their
having but one beard between them * one ihaving
the upper, the other the under, lip only: to thefe
may be added, a Bird-catcher, and a Baikeri
maker, both well known as Holders-forth, and*
of courfe, having their admirers!
All thefe grotefque charafilers, the Deifts and
Atheifts* juftly confidered as fo many Punchinellos*
whom thofe who held the wires behind the
feenes might play off, as belt fuited their pur-
pofe; d pofition which a fupeificial obfetver
might not immediately perceive: but I fecollefil:
an inftance, in the fummer of 1798* at the eon*.
clufion of a Field-fermon, when it was remarked*
that* the Deifts did notoppofe the'Arian preachers
with the fame virulence as the Trinitarians. The
full force of the obfervation was admitted, while
it was urged* as a reafon. for this forbearance,
that, the Infidels confidered the Arians ds doing
a part of their bufirtefs for them.
But befides the fields, and the divifion-rooms,
the Infidel-propagandifts made ufe of another me­
. . D $ diuni
■ r 1» i
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
dium for fpreading their principles, in which they
were but too fuccefsful: this was in the various
Benefit-Societies, within the circle of the me­
tropolis. Here, after the bufinefs of the eve­
ning was over, the difciple of Paine was fure
to introduce the fubjeft of religion ;• and, by thefe
means, feveral copies of the Age of Reafon were
circulated, from the reading of which many of
its tfiftirns dated their converfion.
But this infiduous mode of introducing the
Age of Reafon having been fuccefsfully refilled
by fome of the Benefit-Societies, who have comr
plained to the naagiftrates of fuch diforderly mem­
bers ^ the latter, finding their temporal interefts
at ilake, and not being inclined, by the new
philofophy, to facrifice principle for interejl, it is
fuppofed, will aft with more cunning in fu­
ture ; it being through diffimulation alone, and
that kind of it, which a Chriitian would dif- ■
dain, by which thefe obnoxious members have
efc'aped the erafement of their names from the
books of the Society, and, perhaps, in more than
one inftance, engaged the magiltrates to prevent
their exclufion. .
The introduction of democratic fangs was an­
other part of the duty of thefe political miffion-
aries; but their talents were not confined to
■Benefit-Clubs, their bufinefs was to worm them-
felves into convivial focieties of every kind;
where, though 'fcufflles have frequently enfued,
thefe delegates have often fucceeded in erefting
a party, or an interefi, which, otherwife, would
not have had an exiftence.
k Upon the whole, the difgufting licentioufnefs,
coarfenefs, and brutal indelicacy, too frequently
apparent in thofe field-diiputations, more than coun­
teracted every degree of utility attending them. It
. has
[ 20 ]
Digitized by Google
has feveral times occurred, that, when two perfons,
rather ferioufly inclined, have been difcuuing the
attributes of the Deity, a third has abruptly in­
terfered, with what he has fuppofed to have been
a Ihrewd queition, viz. “ How do you know
there is any God at all ? ”
Having now done wi$h the delineation of thefe
diftortured features of humanity, I ihall now pro­
ceed to give an account of the eftabliihment of a
place of public inftru&ion; always an important
obje£t with the Infidel Illuminati. The next
chapter will therefore ihew how far that eftab­
liihment was founded upon a judicious or a.
fanatical eftimate. - >
[ 21 3
CHAP.
Digitized by GiOOQle
[ 22 ]
CHAP. III.
Upon the opening of a Temple of Reafon in the
Spring of 1796. '
I t had long been a favourite idea of the Club­
Orators, and Field-Miflionary Difputants, that
exhibited upon a proper ftage of a£tion, their elo­
quence would be irrefiftible. Favoured by the
French Revolution, they fondly imagined the time,
for the explofion of the whole fabric of Chriftianity,
had at length arrived; and that, to convert all febts
. from the abfurdity of Chriftian notions, nothing was
wanting but the opportunity which then prefented
jtfelf, for proclaiming the beauties of nature, and
unajjifed reafon to the world at large.. Fluihed
with thefe expirations, a committee wasTelebted
to meet at a public houfe, in Jewin-ftreet; when,
after a few adjourned fittings, being aififted by two
gentlemen of the law, fomething like a fociety was
organized ; a fund adequate to the undertaking was
depofited, and the name of the aifociation agreed
upon, to be that of the Friends of Morality. To
keep up the fpirit of this inftitution, it was ordered,
that ho perfon ihould be admitted, unlefs known
fome months, by more than one of the members,
and that exclufion ihould follow any a£l of immo­
rality ; but in confequence of the trouble that
feemed likely to enfue upon the adoption of this
regulation, thefe modern Cato’s were foon com-
1 pelled
Digitized by T>c Tc
pelled to give up a meafure, at firft conceived to
be indifpenfibly neceflary to fupport the. character
of this new eftabliiliment.
It being juftly conceived that every member was
not qualified.to deliver le&ures in public, it foon
became an obje£t of high debate, in the committee,
whether the lecturers Ihould or ihould not be paid
for their labours. And as any refemblance to the
allowance of a ftipend to a real or nominal fuperior
was looked upon as rank fuperitition, or of arifto-
pratic tendency, it required all the influence of the
two lawyers, to induce the majority of the mem­
bers to agree to a claufe in their articles, to allow
half a guinea to each leCturer, by way of compen­
sation for his trouble. ,
A committee of managers was alfo appointed
but a card and fome emblematic divice being found
a neceflary appendage, an engraver belonging to
the body was employed, who produced a plate,
exhibiting Truth with a fpeculum in her hand, con­
centrating her rays upon the figure of Error, recum­
bent upon the ground. Some of the committee,
whofe tafte was not congenial to the fine arts,
thought the charge of half-a-guinea moft exorbitant,
while others fuppofed that the artiil, being a mem­
ber, ihould have contributed the afliftance of his
talents without fee or reward. ' . ...
After feveral fruitlefs attempts to procure a com­
modious place* of meeting, owing to a variety of
objections from thewperfons applied to, Nichols’s .
fale-room, in Whiteerofs-ftreet, being taken at a
rent of twenty pounds per annum : by the .contri­
butions and labour of fome of the members, it was
foon furniihed with feats, a tribune, &c. Books
being the next objeft; to accommodate fuch per­
fons as chofe to read before the Sunday le&ures
commenced, the members were called upon to
• ' ‘ ■ contribute
■ [ 23 ]
Digitized by Google
contribute their ftock for the public good, parti­
cularly fuch works as militated moli ftrongly againfl
Chriftianity; but it fo happened, for want of better
knowledge, that fome of the books fent into the
depofitory, were written in its behalf! A circum-
ftance fomething like the conduct of fome of the
rioters in 1780, who being called upon to go to
fuch a houfe, as they were Catholics there, replied,
“ What are Catholics to us ? We are only againlt
“ Popery !”
After this room was opened, and looked
upon, bona fide, as a Temple of Reafon, the
opening being announced by the porting of bills,
it was imagined that the fuperiority of Infidelity
would inevitably appear. The hopes of the
leaders were equal to any thing, and fome of them,
almoft perfuaded themfelves, they were the very
perfons defignated by Dr. Prieftley, but a few
years before, for the important and momentous
purpofe of fetting fire to the train fo long accumu­
lating under the Eftabliihed Church, from the fuc-
ceflive contributions of inflammable matter, by
Arians, Socinians, and other Schifmatics. From
this opinion, and the promifing cera of preaching
the ' dofilrines of Deifm, &c. in the fields, which
was partly contemporary ; an cera, which appeared
to have been referved for the year 179(5, portentous
of the Millennium of Infidelity, and of which, the
newly-opened Temple of Reafon was viewed as the
immediate forerunner. It w * therefore not Grange
that the moil a£tive members ihould expeft to have
their names handed down to pofterity, as the re-
llorers of religious liberty, which was firft to eradi­
cate fuperftition and flavery from this ifland, and
afterwards, fupported by the French Revolution,
make the tour of Chriftendom.
■ . Refpecling
[ 24 ]
Digitized by Google
Refpefting the external economy of this new
Temple, as the a£ts of prayer and praife were ex-
preflly excluded, the defe£ts of folemnity or im­
preffion upon the attendants, may eafily be conjee?
tured. Simple as the worihip of the Quakers,
without their gravity, Angularity in drefs, &c, each
perfon that mounted the roitrum feemed rather to
be trying his talents than employed in any ferious
undertaking ; and, while the doctrines of the new
philofophy, as far as they related to morality, were
much too general to fuit any particular purpofe, the
feelings of the impartial hearer, who juftly expend­
ed the neio religion would fuperfede the old, were
invariably thofe of furprize and difappointment.
, It was the endeavour of the mod rational mem­
bers, to confine the lefturers to the delivery of
their fentiments upon morality, abftrafledly, with­
out reference to Chriftianity, or any other fyftem ;
but this the majority of the members oppofed,
well perfuaded, that, deprived of the moil: copi­
ous themes of argument, or rather declamation,
they would entirely lofe the command over the
paflions of their auditors, and, of courfe, become
more infipid and uninterefting than any of the pro^
feifions they were determined to condemn.
■This being the temper of the chiefs of this new
Temple of Reafon, the lectures there delivered
were generally compiled from the writings of Vob
taire, David Williams, and other authors, diftin-
guiihed for their rancour or prejudices againft
Chriftianity. As for the decorum, indifpenfably ne-
ceflary in every kind of worihip, or public inftruc-
tion, the ftrangers that attended this inftitution
could not be lefs influenced by it, than the
members themfelves; as, from the opening of
the place, from ten in the rooming till one, and
E « on
- [ 25 ]
Digitized by Google
on the Sunday afternoon, till the moment of the
commencement of the lectures, the time was in­
variably fpent in farcaftic or facetious converfation,
acrofs the tables, between the members; and, from
the noify approbation this entertainment occafion-
ally produced, it was difficult to determine, whe­
ther amufement or aftonifhment preponderated in
the minds of the audience at large.
As thefe boafted philofophers were ignorant of
the force of motives, and of fuch dodtrines as in­
fluence the minds of individuals, it was not un­
accountable, that a laxity of attendance among
the members foon produced a fimilar difpofition
in ftrangers; fo that, notwithstanding the additional
notice w hich the place attrafied, in confequence
o f a dilfurbance by fome intruders, and the itate-
m ent o f their examination at one of the police of­
fices, in fome of the daily papers, the fociety, find­
ing- all their declamations " wafted upon the defert
air» ’ at length agreed to ihut up the Temple till
a m ore convenient feafon ; for, at that period, it
" a s n o t thought impoffible but that, in a few
m o n th s, the preffure of external circumftances,
an. th e co-operation of the New Apoftlefhip,
m jg h t occafion the converfion of St. Paul’s Cathe-
* Vll° ? Temple of Reafon ! No one forefee-
t h ? ’ . a t’ m the fummer of 1799, the Theophilan-
h i * ° n C T em p le, at Paris, would (hare the fate ofits
Croi"s S-5 *m ’tator at Nichols’s fale-room in White-
Lrcet, notwithstanding the fupport of Thomas
-Yh T d other eminent characters.
0rcj e r^ e Unc°ntroled experiments upon the lower
Cre d u litv -^°c ^ety ’n this country, among whom
v a lid a te ' i1S ever fiie firongeft, muft completely in-
th e c i v '/ ] P^ea Infidels againfl the reflraint of
1 la w , and the old pretence, that Chriflb
, anity
[ 26 ] - '
D'SMzedbyGoOoie
anity is obliged to the fecular r.rm for its fup*
port. . . ' . ,
It may be aiked, what power reftri&ed the The-
ophilanthropifts in 'the performance of their wor-
ihip at Paris ? The government was not only in
their favour, but the public mind had been training
for years for the reception of their notions, from
the writings of the whole tribe of French Atheifts,
in which, as Mr. Courtenay obferves, a conftella-
tion of genius feemed united. Thefe Atheiilical
tenets, he juftly remarked, were diffufed in every
fpecies of writing, and the dulcet poifon was
greedily imbibed in every part of Europe. The
moft poignant ridicule, the fineft fallies of wit, and
the moft brilliant traits of imagination, threw a
falfe luftre over this deceptious fyftem; the perni­
cious dogmas of their fchool captivated the atten­
tion, and were conveyed to the heart in the en­
chanting page of a novel, amidft the feigned ad­
ventures and paflionate endearments of lovers;
But the luminous Ccrutinizing genius of Montef-
quiou, the fplendid levity of Voltaire, the impaf-
lioned and fafcinating eloquence of Roufleau, the
precifion and depth of D ’Alembert, the bold and
acute inveftigations of Boulanger, the daring para­
doxical fpirit of Helvetius, the majeftic fuhlimity
of BufFon, the profound aftronomic refearches of
Bailie, the captivating elegance of Marmontel*
and the impreffive condenfed thoughts of Diderot,
have not, as the gentleman concludes, “unfettled the
confecrated opinions of ages, nor ihaken the vene­
rable gothic ftrucfure from' its very foundation '*
For, on the contrary, this many-twinkling meteor
of Infidelity, after ¿lazing its hour, has paled be­
fore the milder radiance and commanding luftre of'
the gofpel luminary, the doftrines of which, are
not extraneous, but congenial to human nature. , .
E 2 • The
[ 2
7 J
Digitized by Google
The new philofophy, it is granted, may adorn
the head, but thefe ennoble the heart. This wif-
dom may be allowed to bear the impreffion of
human reafon, but it will never pafs current with
freak and wounded humanity! It is formidable in
books, but contemptible in life : in argument
ftrong ; in pra&ice weak : a coin which may be
kept for ihew, but not for ufe : it is a counterfeit,
and its deté&ion, by the ftandard of experience,
now enables us to fay, with a confidence ap­
proaching to mathematical demonftration, and
oracular authenticity : ‘
“ Thou art weighed, in the balance, andfound wanting."
Yes, ye Atheifts, it is true, that our minds were
confined in a narrow region, while our imagina­
tions were delighted with the finding heavens
above, and the rich diverfity beneath. But what
have we obtained of you in exchange ? To the
fruitful, though bounded view of hill and dale, has
fucceeded the immeafurable deferì ! Amazement
was our firft fenfation at the magnitude of the
profpeQ: ; but now our eyes are appalled, and our
hearts ficken at the fatnenefs of the fcene. Here
the.heavens above are as brafs, and the earth as
iron beneath our feet. Our ears are torn by the
fcreaming of the bittern, or alarmed by the howl­
ing of the beads of prey. The voice of the turtle
is not heard in this land, and the time for finging
birds never comes.
But again, to advert to the hiftory of this grand
failure of Infidelity ; that the fatal experiment was
not tried upon a much larger fcale, is not to be
imputed to the want of will in the perfons en­
gaged, but to the falutary prevention which ori­
ginated in another quarter: for no fooner was the
opening of the place laft defcribed kjiòwn in the
. country,
C 28 ] ,
Digitized by
country, than a notice was given in that aflembly,
" That if any perfon, qualified as a teacher, could
“ make it convenient to leave town, a Society, at
“ one of the Weftern ports, could infure him from
“ 150/. to 200/. per annum.”, Nor is it ftraining
any probability to fuppofe, that every aflembly of
this nature would eventually have formed itfelf
into a political body, the confequences muft then
have been obvious. .
The projeft for diftributing the miflionaries of
Deifm and Democracy about the country, it feems,
had certainly been afted upon, to a certain degree,
anterior to the period I have juft alluded to, when,
as the Bilhop of London obferves in one of his
Lordihip’s charges to his clergy, that, to his know­
ledge, the Age of ReaJ'on had been circulated among
the miners in Cornwall. A degree of mifchievous
induftry, unknown to the original propagandifts of
the continent,'whofe impious labours, as far as I
have heard, terminated upon the furface of the
earth ! But of the former it may be faid,
“ That when on earth the)’ could no farther go,
“ They fpread .lie miichief in the realms below! ”
• . [ 29 ]
c i i a p .
Digitized by Google
c so r
. CIIAP. IV.
Upon the common Prejudices in Favour of Debating -
Clubs; and the immediate Influence of the late
Afl'ociations, upon the Families and Connections
of their Members.
P E R H A P S the long pra&ice of agitating civil
and religious fubje&s, in various focieties, has lent
too much ftrength to the hitherto prevailing opi­
nion, that fuch verbal difcuffions did certainly tend
to the eftabliihment of truth, and the deteftion of
error.' But fpeaking from long experience, at
leaft, ever iince Infidelity has been at iffue with
the eftabliihed religion of the country, thefe falu-
tary effefts have been fo few, as to be fcarcely
perceptible.
Indeed, the majority of attendants upon thefe
places, both of former, as well as recent date,
have been led, by fucceffive gradations, to doubt
of the very fundamentals before admitted ! And
he that began with fcruples, concerning fome parts
of revelation, has commonly ended with queftion-
ing the exiftence of a G od! Thus Circe trans­
formed men into beafts, but Atheifm converts
them into monfters.
The fuppofition of a candid difcuffion in thefe
aflemblies is a mere farce ; for in proportion as
party-fpirit enlarges its fphere of action, candour
is uniformly jcftled out of its place. The number
of hands held up, for or againft a queftion, is al­
ways tnore attended to, than the weight of the ar-
■ • . guments
Digitized by
\
guments in its favour ; nor has any kind of ridicule
been fpared by the Infidels to enfure fuccefs over
the Chriftians, when other means have proved
abortive.
It has been'intimated before, that the London
Correfponding Society, by adding Deifm .to its
politics, engendered the feeds of its own deftruc-
tio n : and, in fa£t, many of the leading orators,
as if they were aware of going too far, after de­
preciating the character of the Saviour, in their
harangues, ufed frequently to add the ridiculous
aifertion, “ That they believed Jefus Chriit was a
“ good republican.” This mifchievous levity,
this fuperficial difpofition, was carried into every
fcene of private, as well as public life. Having
, no tafte but for fcandal and declamation, among
the multiplicity of publications which they Sanc­
tioned, no work upon the relative duties, no
work inculcating moral or religious obligations to
virtue, was either called for, or made its appear­
ance. Vojney’s Law of Nature, or Catechiim of
Reafon, publiihed by Eaton, is the only exception
to this charge : but as an unerring indication of
Infidel propenfities, in a hundred houfes furnilhed
with Paine’s Age of Reafon, the former was not
once to be found ! Neither Plato, Socrates, nor
Antoninus, though praifed by Voltaire, had any
charms for the turbulent dffciples of Paine and
Mirabaud : and hence the advice of a parent or
mailer, for the want of fome Handing rule or autho->
rity, is generally weak and ineffectual; a defid-,
ency frequently increafed. by the difference of opi­
nion between a man and his wife. The woman,
we will fuppofe, even from habit, prefers feeing
her children dreffed, and at church, on a Sunday;
but not to difoblige her enlightened huiband, who
has read the Age of Reafon, this is a point the
■ gives
[ 3
1 ]
Digitized by V.ooQle
gives up ; the children remain all the forenoon in
their every day drefs, or ftray into the fields, where
they contraCt vicious habits; and thus, all the obli­
gations that refult from a place of public worfhip;
the influence of a copious hiflory of ftriking ex­
amples, and the fanfctity and authority of ages is
loft and evaded. But if a difpofition for reading is
in any degree indulged, the fublimity of the facred
Scriptures is perhaps bartered for the eflfufions of
fome fuperficial or political pamphleteer!
In fact, the whole fyftem of domeftic economy
feems reverfed, by the introduction of deiftical no­
tions. I have obferved, that the heads of many
induftrious families, who, previous to their illumi­
nation, made it an indifpenfible duty to appear
abroad decently drefled on a Sunday, would after­
wards not only remain the whole day in their
working drefles, to fliew their contempt of the
Chrijlian Sabbath, but fpend it at home in fottith-
nefs and ftupidity. And yet Paine’s Age of Rea-
fon, Godwin’s Political Jufticer &c. have remain­
ed upon their ftielves, and full in the fight of their
pofteftors during the whole time ! Others, who
before, were honeft and frugal, have become kna-
viili and luxurious; and while their tables were
covered with all the varieties of the feafon, could,
without fcruple of confidence^ defraud thSir poorer
neighbours of their juft dues'. In other inftances,
felf-mu der has put a period to tliefe fatal deviations
from order and decency. Thus the minds, even of
adults, after foaring for a fhort period in the va-
euity which they were taught to confider as an en-.
lightened region, undetermined what object to
alight upon, have funk aft length into the muddy
pools of vice ; or having nothing 'more to hope for,
embraced that dreary fcepticifm which cannot
promife a fafe conduit through this temporary ex-
1 illenee :
• [ 32 ]
Digitized by Google
iftenee; frdm hence, thefe unhappy fubjefls have
not unfrequently fallen. into a fituation fo truly de­
plorable as to baffle every remedy, but have lived
the aftonilhment of all who knew their wanderings;
and died without regret!.
Inftead then, of the Millennium^ which modern
Ihfidels had promifed themfelves from the number
ol their converts, what has been the confequence ?
Their public and private efforts have equally failed;
and, laftly, a number of their members have left
them fpontaneoufly, convinced that their notions
upon matters of faith could never be attended with
any wholefome effefls; a mode of conduit, as I have
before obferved, fimilar to that of many members of
the once famed Robin Hood Society. Nor is there
any thing which an Infidel ought' to dread more
than the reaition of his own principles upon himfelf,
from his inferiors or his dependants :'I have known
a recent inftance of a fervant refilling to pay a juft
debt to his mailer; and, in reply to his reproof for fuch -
conduit, he pleaded his mailer’s pre-inftruitions !
The latter it feems, had made him his companion
to the Clubs, and had frequently told him, “ Thera
Was no account to be taken hereafter of actions in
this life.”
There was another fpecies of inconliftency, which
materially checked the diffeniination of Infidel
opinions in private families ; that is to fay, the pro-
penfity of leveral individuals to attend places of
Chriftian Worihip, though in the conftant habit of
declaiming againft them all! When fuch perfons
were alked the reafon of this condu£t, their anfwcrs
generally were, that they went merely for amufe-
.ment, or, that the Preachers making excellent
moral difeourfes, they fuppofed no harm could be
taken; a tacit confeilion of the weaknefs of their
own fundamentals: but not reiting here, this pro- ■
. 1 F ■ ‘ duced
' t 33 ]
Digitized by Google
• . C 34 I
■ ' . » .
duced a ftrong propenfity in their children or fer-
vants to doubt their fincerity in other refpefts, and
frequently gave the whole or their objeftions againft
Chriftianity the caft and colour of prejudice. Now
thefe involuntary teflimonies to the natural power
of religion upon the human mind, may be urged
fo far as to prove, that while Deifts and Atheifts.
are appealing to Nature for the juftification of their
irreligious opinions, that fame Nature, is confirmings
the truth of the Chriftian fyilem, by compelling them,
as it were, to fanftion certain a£ts of divine wror-
fhip, in fpite of their opinions, and the fyftem they
profefs
Naturarli e.vpdlasfurcà, tamen ufque recurret.
Thefè charges I prefume, belong to that clafs of
fa£ts, which no fophiftry can remove ; but, as many
of them will neceffarily appear new, not having
been urged by former writers againft Deifm, let it
be remembered, that Infidelity having never'gained
fo much ground before, among the common people,
‘the fcope of obfervation was proportionately nar­
rowed : for, till the Age of Reafon was adopted
by the political focieties in the metropolis, Deifm,
to fay nothing Of Atheifm, was rather the affair of
a few ifolated individuals, than, as it has been fince
• that period, the concern of a confiderable part of thè
community. Another inftance of the weaknefs and
inferiority of modern infidelity is, that manifeft want
of paifive, or fuffering, virtue, which feerns to be a
natural refult of the laxity of its principles. The
Infidels therefore, had they continued a rifing feft,
could never' have been formidable ; paffive virtue,
'in a civil or a religious body, being the fame as
difcipline in an armyc wanting it, both would a£t
without energy, or be fubjeft to a fpeedy diffolu-
tion.
Digitized by Google
tion. How unlike, then, are thefe philoiophers to the
Original Quakers,, whom they are fond of propofing
as a model to other'Chriilian denominations ! Thefe
Quakers, raifed themfelves into confequence by
cheriihing the virtue, in which their modern pane-
gyriits are moil: deficient: the true ground of their
increafe was a perfeverance, arifing from motives
univerfally difcountenanced by Deifts and Atheifts,
that is to fay, a hope of reward beyond the prefent
life, • .
- In all the recent declamations againil the Chriilian
Religion, it is a principal charge that its miniiters
are the moil: fordid and temporizing beings upoty
earth.. But how {lands it with their accufers ? As
far as fa£ls can fpeak for themfelves, I anfwer, that,
when their-domeitic concerns, or fincerity in what
they profefs, does, as occafion offers, demand any
faprifice of intereft ; principle is generally given up
in its room, with very'little fcruple ; an aifertion,
which if neceifary, could be juilified by a number
of initances. Chriftianity, on the contrary, daily ex­
hibits its nobler facrifices pf a prefent for a future
good ; a virtue arifing from attemper totally incont--
patible with the Infidel fyitem, which admits of
nothing beyond time and fenfe, and thus excludes
the poilibility of exercifing this duty towards man ;
and a due confidence in the Creator. Qf the philoT
fophers, it has been juitly faid;
--------- :---------- — 7---------“ Its ont Vart de delmire,
Mais its n'elevent rien." '
Proceeding upon thefe falfe principles, while modern
Infidels have promifed themfelves happinefs and
unanimity in their families, difcord has followed.-
Among others of this clafs, the roan who has taught
his children to avoid a place of worihip, as a place
. F 2 of
. [ S5 ] . .
Digitized by Google
of infection, will neverthelefs fend them to Church,
if education and an annual fuit (for which he could
pay) are the conditions of their attendance; or ra­
ther than his new-born infant ihould lofe the prefent
of a frock, the good graces of a godmother'and a
few goffips, he will fubmit to have it baptized, and
itill continue to upbraid Chriilians, as the moftab-
furd and inconfiftent beings in the univerfe !
Another, if a place is to be obtained under go­
vernment, has no objection to receive the Sacra­
ment as a qualification ; and thus it happens that
modern Infidelity initead of reforming, tends to in-
creafe the number of hypocrites !
As a farther proof of their proilitution of con-
fcientious re£litude, a recent inftance has occurred
of the difappointment of a Benefit Society, in their
wifh to exclude a member for boring them with
Paine’s Age of Reafon; and who, much to their
afionilhment, to obviate their complaints, did not
refufe to take an oath before a magiftrate, and to
profefs his belief of that Bible which it had been his
1coailant endeavour to difcredit!
From fuch temporizing conduft in parents and
mailers of families, what muit be the inferences of
the children ? Will they regard the precepts which
are continually at variance with the practice of
thofe who recommend them ? Certaihly, whenever
the Infidel attempts to realize his theories, he be­
trays the moil confirmed ignorance of human na­
ture. A want of fympathy and commifferation is
alfo a common failing with thefe pretenders, who
have at the fame time fome theory or other, con-
itantly in their heads for leffening the evils in fo-
ciety—which defefil may perhaps be imputed to
the fyilem of fatalifm, pretty general among them.
If an Infidel refufe to contribute to the neceifities
of his brother, he may tell you he has no motive,
1 not
[ 36 ]
Digitized by Google ■
not being a free agent; and in. this cafe may laugh
at any reply that can be made to his objeftion. To
infill upon the fuperiority of the Chriftian Religion,
which fuggeils fuch a variety of motives for re­
peated afts of humanity and benevolence, would
be needlefs; I ihall, however, Hate one inftance:
a perfon, known as a profeflfor of religion, being'
folicited to join with others for the relief of a third
perfon, confined for a fmall debt, at firll llarted
feveral obje£lions ; but, faid the folicitor, fuch a one,
and fuch a one, have come forward, and can you as
a Chriftian refufe to contribute ? This being an ar­
gument ad hominem, which he was unable to refill,
he gave liberally. But as the Book of Nature, fo
much boalled of by Deills, is not fo exprefs upon
this fubjeft as the Book of Revelation, fuch an ap­
peal as I have juft cited, cannot be made to an In­
fidel.
As it mud be evident to every refie£ling mind,
that our hopes and fears are the ftrongeft motives
of all our a£lions ; to expatiate here upon the differ­
ence between ancient and modern Deifm would be
unneceffary. To thofe not verfed in the ancient
Pagan fyftems, I ihall only' obferve, that while
modern Infidels are too wife to admit of any future
rewards or punilhments, the ancients had their ex­
piatory facrifices, purifications, retributions, and
judgment after death. Thefe do&rines, inllead of
deftroying every medium which could affefl 'the
heart, or fix the imagination, prefented and pro­
pagated an infinity of ideas and motives of con-
fideration ; while the modern philofophy, urges and.
infills upon nothing beyond a bare probability!
A motive which is often too weak to operate upon
difciplined and exalted minds, and confequentJy is
• not in the leaft degree qualified to arreft and fix
the groffer and more perverted apprehenfions of the
profane
- C 37 ]
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
profane and vulgar; even -the Pagan Polytheifm,
was as much fuperior to the inanity of modern In*
fidelity, as Chriftianity is to both of thofe fyitems.
Thus we have had a fpecimen of philofophers,
wfithout philofophy, and reformers, unreformed :
men, of wT
hom, in the language.of Jude, we may
more truly fay, “ Thefe are clouds without water,
“ carried .about by the wfinds, wandering ftars,
“ raging weaves of the fea,. murmurers,and com­
“ plainers fpeaking evil of dignities.”
I ihould have obferved, when 'fpeaking of the
inferiority of modern Deifts and Atheiils to the -
ancient Pagans, that the notions of the former
have a tendency to render every plan of education,
vague and uncertain. For, being anxious to fup-
prefs any idea their children may entertain of a
Fifing, or Beings, fuperior to men, they are necefi-
farily excluded from prroft of the benefits which the
imagination derives from works of taile and the
hiftory of antiquity. The fjjtern of modern in ­
fidelity, if fuch it may be called, has not the leaft
congeniality either with Polytheifm, or the Chriltian
Faith. Equally defpifing Heroes and Demi-Gods,'
Saints and Angels; Infidels can never be elevated
with exalted ideas of purity or fuperior excellence :
and of courfe, befides being deprived of^ the plea-
fure of wandering in the fiowery fields of ufeful
a nd agreeable fiftion, they may lofe all the motives
to virtue and piety, which mulic, painting, and-
poetry, are well known to inculcate;
To every one of thefe degraded mortals, who
pride themfelves in being nothing more than mere
organizations of matter, this fine appeal of the
minftrel does moil forcibly apply, ; ' .
, [ 38 ] . '
O h! how canft thou renounce the hour,diets ftore.
O f charms, which Nature to her vot’ry yields?
The
Digitized by Google
The warbling woodland, tire furrounding ihore,
The pomp o
<
>groves, the garniture of fields; •
. All that life genial ray of morning gilds,
Ami all that echoes to the fongofev’n,
All that the mountain’s (heliring bofom rtields,
And all the dread magnificence of heaven, -
Oh! how can’ll thou renounce and hope to be forgiven !
B e a t t i e .
Thus, all thefe low and obfcure puddles which I
have defcribed, flowing through fuch a variety of
channels, have at length fettled in the fiagnant pool
of Trench Atheifnr, which few have paifed in:
fafety, where many have periihed, and in which
many others may plunge, during the term of their
exigence. '
But even this, like the deadly lake of Sodom, has
its fruits, goodly to the eye, but mortal to the
' tafte; and perhaps the fpecious appearance of
Atheiftic virtues was never more! aptly illuflrated
than by the remark made, upon the French philo­
sophers, by the late Emprefs of Rufiia. See Pro-
feifor Robifon’s Proofs of a Confpiracy, page 52,
.53, 54. “ Ces philofophcs,” faid fhe, “ font beaux,
“ vus de hrin ; mais de plus pres le diamant parait
“ c h r y j l a l which may be rendered thus, “ The'
“ aCtions and fentiments of thefe philofophers appear
“ like brilliants at a diilance, but, clofely infpected,
“ are nothing beyond common pafte." .
The natural inanity, froth, and vapour, of thefe
philofophical bodies, have appeared in various in-
itances, iince the period of their vilible decline y
the defe£tion of a number of perfons, from the prin­
ciples they profeifed, while in a. collected flute,
having proved, that they were only held together by
the vociferation of a few flippant leaders, ignorant
that Religion is natural to civilizedJbcicty.
It has farther,appeared, that many, even while
they remained with them, fo far from being con­
- ' vinced
r 39 i
Digitized by Google
vinced by Infidel argum ents, only w anted fome
perfon upon wliofe ju d g m en t they could rely, to
b ear them out in renouncing the w hole, or the
principal parts of their new creed. A n d this re­
cantation, it feem s, w as long declined by others,
left their c/vijn lhould be called in queftion ; DeiJ'm
and Democracy, as it has been obferved before,
b ein g deem ed infeparable qualifications.
T h u s, as in France, fupported by external agency,
the m eteor, w hich they falfely denom inated, th e
L ig h t of N ature, m ight longer have continued to
aftoniih the m u ltitu d e ; b u t even this adm iration
, m uft have ceafed, w hen they found its rays afforded
no genial w arm th ; that it led them into a tracklefs
void, and, after expofing them to all the ftorm s of
adveriity in this life, left them w ithout hope of re-
com penfe beyond the grave. . ,
B ut, of the Chriftian fyftem it has been elegantly
faid,
“ Religion is a gen’rous lively flame,
" Thai brightens, not deforms, the human frame :
“ A lambent light, around the heart it plies,
“ Not like a fury, threat’ning in the eyes.
" No four reflraint, no forc’d concern it wears;
“ No public fighs, no oftentatious tears;
“ No felf-applauding boafr, no love of ftrife ;
“ No fpleen againft the blamelefs joys of life.
“ As far from thefe are Piety’s fweet charms;
“ As fettled courage from confus’d alarms ; ' ,
“ As folid Reafon’scalm confiderate train, ,
" From the wild frenzies of a moon-ftruck brain.”
[ 40 ]
C H A P -
Digitized by Google
[ 41 ]
C H A P . V .
Upon feveral recent Canfes of Scandal upon the
Ejtablijhed Religion.— Uncommon ,I)icrcafe of
- Itinerants.— Lady Jim's Preachers.— Vifiling
Preachers at IVorkhoufes.— Societiesfo r relieving
the Poor at their oivn Habitations.— Character
of the late Rev. Mr. Richards, Curate of St.
Sepulchres.— Rev. R. Southgate.— Origin of the
Swcdenborgian Worjhip.— Popifi Emigrants, '
O n e o f the principal evils, the fubjeft o f th e
prefent com plaint, originates in the increafing and
unprecedented num ber of preachers in w h at is
called the M ethodiliic line, or at leaf!, in the Cal?
viniftic departm ent of it, patronized by a L ady,
the. fuppofed fucceifor, to the C ountefs of H u n t­
ingdon, and hence com m only called L ady A n n ’s
preachers. T his defeription, beiides fuch of them
as obtain appointm ents w ithin doors, are generally
to be.found haranguing the paffengers on a Sunday,
d u rin g the fum m er-feafon, in the Spa-Fields, or in
th e avenues leading to Jilington, H ack n ey , & c.
m oil of them beardlefs boys, and m echanics or
labourers by profeffion, w hofe ignorance of their
m other-tongue is not to be equalled, fince the bur
iinefs of out-door preaching w as lain dow n by O li­
v er’s preachers. •
. M an y o f the form er, w ell know n to perfons ac­
q uainted w ith them before their m etam orphofis,
have contrived to appear o u t of doors, decorated
in a gow n, before they w ere w ell miffed from their
- G in
Digitized by Google
ftiop-boards! W h at qualifications are deem ed ne-
ceffary to authorize fo hidden a change into a cle­
rical h ab it I have never been able to learn, unlefs.
volubility be m iftaken forelocution.
T h a t feveral o f thefe upftarts w ere apprentices
at the tim e they com m enced their m inifterial career,
particularly one o f them , w ho fancied -he w as fent
to call the Je w s, (in D u k e ’s Place) is a fa£l notori-
ouily know n. H ence the m oil naufeating egotifm ,
and the w ant o f every requifite, ex cep t aifurance,
are fufficient to m ake religion itfelf (in the eyes o f
the undifeerning) acceffary to its ow n difgrace,
w ith o u t the additional ridicule of D eiits and A th e -
iils, w ho are happy in the opportunities of c h a rg ­
ing the follies of a few upon the w hole profeflion.
N um bers of the fame clafs, as to ability, have alfo
o b tru d ed them felves as miffionaries to foreign parts.
• O ne o f thefe, now a carm an to a tradefm an n e a r
Sm ithfield, w as abfolutely ihipped for Sierra L e o n a ,
loon after that colony w as eitabliibed, b u t w as
obliged to return in confequence of a difagree-
m en t w ith the natives. '
T h o u g h not generally know n, it is no lefs a
tru th , that feveral of the w orkhoufes, in this m e­
tropolis, have been ufed as places o f training a n d
e x e rc ife . for, fome years pail, by thefe fanatical
adventurers.. Some o f them , for w hat they term
exercifing their gifts, abfolutely give the poor w o ­
m e n in thefe houfes a few halfpence, on a Sunday,
to purchafe fnuff, tea, & c. w hich is again charg ed
to thofe w ho em ploy the preachers, as a p art o f
th eir ordinary expenses,
A t fome of the w orkhoufes, according to th e
difpofition o f the governors, the vifiting p reachers
receive fm all gratifications for their labours; for in-
ftance, a poor creature, now in the h ab it of attend-,
in g C lerkenw ell-w orkhoufe, generally receives a
. ' H
[ 42 J
Digitized by Gbogle
glafs of gin, as the reward of his vifit, and i$ faf-
ther allowed the privilege of trucking with his hum­
ble auditors for. the houfe allowances of pudding,
cheefe, &c, with which he fills his pockets, 'upon
his return home from what he calls his fermon!
This is the fame perfon mentioned in page 19, in the
double capacity of bird-catcher and field-preacher.
Till a regulation happily took place, a few years
fince, fome men of this character ufed to force them*
felves upon the malefactors under fentence of death.
In conformity with the complaint, here advanced, it
has been the opinion of feveral judicious obferv-
ers of the manners and morals of mankind, “ that
“ great hurt has been done bv the fanatical conVer-
“ fation, the vifionary hymns, and the bold and im­
*
* pious applications of the Scriptures, by fuch
“ people' above defcribed, when attending con-
“ demned malefaCtors. It cannot be denied that,
“ in confequence of the moil culpable prollitution
“ of facred things, many daring offenders againft
“ law and juftice have had their paffions and ima-
“ ginations fo worked upon, and have been fent into
.“ the other world in fuch raptures, as would much
“ better become' martyrs, innocently fuffering in a
" glorious caufe, than criminals of the firft mag­
“ nitude.” In fine, the conduit of thefe immoral
preachers of religion appeared in fo odious a lights
a few years fince, that it induced the magiftrates
of the city of London to confine the office of at­
tending' upon the prifon«rs in general to the Ordi-
- nary of Newgate; but, being refufed there, I cari
fee no reafon they ihould gain admittance into
the workhoufes. .
A poem, called the Literary Cenfus, which I
have before me, thus defcribes fome of the cha­
racters, \?ho are the conftant means of heaping
fcandal upon the eftabliihed religion, -
- G 2 , “ In
I 43 .]
Digitized by L.ooole
■“ In terms uncouth, and myitic pbrnfe they rave
'< Q f faving faith and faith that cannot fave,
“ The fpirit’s teaching, and the fpirit’s rod,
“ And how the Devil over-reaches God ;
“ How lion-like he feeketh to devour,
“ A nd damns more fouls than grace to fave has pow’r.
“ You’d fwear, fo loud their rant, and fo abftrufe,
“ Bedlam, or Babel’s workmen, were let loofe.”
[ 44 ]
In a note to page 88 of this p am p h let, I fin d
the opinion of this ingenious author, upon the m u l­
tiplication of thefe fanatical- fchifm atics, e x a d tly
fim ilar to the im preffions I had previoufly e n te r ­
tain ed , from a confideration of their condudt ; I
have therefore taken the liberty o f tran ferib in g it
a t full length. ^
“ T h e incalculably rapid increafe of thefe lo-
“ cults, and the obloquy their frantic d em ean o r,
« ignorance, and vulgarity, entail upon true reli-
« gion, and the refpe£lable p art o f the clerg y ,
“ render thé interference of the legiflature indif-
« penfably neceffary. I f any o f the m agiftrates
“ o f the realm ffiould honour this w o rk w ith a
« perufal, they w ill acknow ledge th at m y rem arks
“ are juft. M r. M ain w arin g , to his credit, has
« ex erted him felf, as far as the pow er veiled in him
“ by law w ill perm it, to fupprefs this unfufferable
“ nuifance ; b u t, as the law Hands at prefent, the
« h ands o f m agiftrates are tied, and they fcarcely
« dare refufe a licence to the m olt contem ptible
« -blockhead, w ho believes, or w iihes to m ake
« others believe, he has. received a call. I am
« credibly inform ed, and I honour the gentlem an
« for his co n d u ft o n .the occafion, th at the m agif-
trate w hom I above name-d experienced fome
« difficulty in neje£ting the application of a, m ean
. defpicable w retch, w ho, upo n being queltioned
“ w hat profefiion he follow ed, proved to be a bellows­
. blower
Digitized by Google
.*
* blower to aforge, and w as fo ihockingly illiterate,
“ th a t he could n o t even tell the letters of the
“ alp h ab et. T h e fubjoined lift, of fome o f the
“ recently-ordained retailers o f the G ofpel, w as
f‘ com m unicated to m e, by a w orthy and religious
“ friend, and w ill ferve to illuftrate the propriety
“ o f th e p receding re m a rk s:
[ 45 ]
M r. N orton,
M r. W iU bn,
M r. T im othy H inds,
M r. Saunders,
M r. Colfton, .
M r. O - -------------,
M r. D ow nes,
M r. H iq k u p ,
M r. S taunton,
M r. Parry,
D ealer in O ld C lothes,
G rinder,
Sheeps-H ead Seller, ,
C oach-Painter,
Preffm an,
M an g le-M ak er,
G lazier,
Footm an to J . G . Efq.
T o oth-D raw er, P eruke-
M a k er, and Phleboto-
mift,
B reeches-M aker, & c. & c.
“ Almoft, ad infinitum; not lefs than 307 having
“ taken out Preaching-Licences, at the New
“ Seffions-Houfe, Clerkenwell, in the courfe o f
“ the years 1796-7.”
T h e author goes on to obferve, “ T h a t, having
** once touched upon this fubjefr, it w ould be
“ an a£t o f injuftice to difmifs it, w ithout obferving,
** as it accounts, in a great degree, for the vaft
“ n um ber o f upftart teachers and doftrines for
w hich this country is pre-em inently diftinguilh- ,
** ed , th at, there is, in this m etropolis, a ci-devant
“ Coal-heaver,, notorious for no qualification upon
“ earth, b u t eonfum m ate im pudence and incor­
rigible ignorance, w hom , I am given to under-
“ H and, is in the receipt o f nearly oflOOO per
“ annum. H e is proprietor and fa c totum o f tw o
. “ chapels,
Digitized by Google
“ . chapels, and has lately purchafed the elegant
“ maniion of the late Dr. M ---- ----- h, with grounds
“ and appurtenances; in addition to which, he
“ keeps his carriage.”
Two months after I had determined upon iketch-
ing out an account of the fcandals occafioned to
religion, by illiterate enthufiafts; and, after I had
proceeded thus far in the execution of my defign, I
learned, with pleafure, that this fubje£tvof com­
plaint had been noticed in the Houfe of Com­
mons: on Monday, Februry 3, M- Angelo Taylor
gave notice of an intended motion-; and in which,
he aiked relief in the cafe of licenfing preachers;
urging, that, within a very fbort time, he had
been applied to, and obliged to grant a licence
to a boy of feventeen years of age, as a Prdachtr
of the Gofpel! . .
I may now add, fince writing the laft remark,
the additional fatisfa&ion of finding my obferva-
tions, upon the wretched ignorance of thefe
itinerant preachers, fully confirmed by the Re­
port from the Clergy of the Diocefe of Lincoln,
convened, the firft time in Auguft laft, for the
purpofe of confidering the State of Religion ;
Printed for Rivington, St. Paul’s Church-yard,
and Hatchard, Piccadilly.
In this valuable produftion, one of the leading
caufes of the dangers arifing to the church and
government of this kingdom, and the alarming-
increafe of profanenefs and irreligion, is juftly
imputed- to thofe Methodifts, fuch as I have de-
fcribed in . London, “ who attend and encourage
“ a wandering tribe of fanatical teachers, moftly
«
* taken from the lowed and moft illiterate claftfes
“ of fociety; among whom are to, be found, ra-
fc ving enthufiafts, pretending to divine impulfes,
“ of various and extraordinary kinds, praftifing
8 ’ . ' “ exorcifm s,
[ 46 J ■
Digitized by
i;Google
“ exorcifrns, and m any other forts o f im poitures
“ and delufiorls, and obtaining, thereby, an un­
“ .lim ited fw ay over the m inds of the ignorant
“ m u ltitu d e.”
T h is third s and low eft clafs o f perfons,' to
w hom the nam e of M ethodifts is ufually given,
it is alfo obferved, are neither qualified by ed u ­
cation for the office o f teachers, nor bound by
th e declaration o f any fixed principles, nor re-
ftrained by any fenfe of decency or ih a m c ; and
fo various are their ab fu rd ities,,th at they feem
to have no point o f union, except a determ ina­
tion to calum niate the eftabliffied C lergy, w hich
delign they execute w ith unrelenting violence an d
m alice, at all tim es, and in all places. “ Some
“ o f them , it is repeated, pra£life exorcifrns, and
“ capricious form s, and m odes of it, utterly in­
“ confident, n o t only w ith religious gravity b u t
“ w ith m orality and d e c e n c y : they have alfp
“ frequently denounced the reprobation not only
“ o f particular'perfons and fam ilies b u t of w hole
“ villages, and publicly execrated the churches,
“ as being nothing b u t a heap of ftones.”
T h is report, evidently dictated by a fpirit of
m oderation and veracity, farther im putes “ the
“ propagation of thefe m ifreprefentations and im ­
“ im poitures to the private aifem blies, know n by
“ the nam e of G affed M e e tin g s; ” b u t it does
n o t dw ell upon the unprecedented influence o f
the leaders of thefe bands, as they are called.
•T h e latter are, to all intents and purpofes,.F ather-
Confeffoi's, in th eir w ay ; and though generally lefs
inform ed than the preachers, to w hich office they
occafionally afeend, yet thefe m en are profeflion-
ally called upon, -to hear the fecrets of fam ilies,
and to determ ine upon, and direct fuch intricate
m ovem ents, of th e ^tiind as w ould juftly require
[ 47 ] •
Digitized by Google
[ 48 ]
the (kill of an acute philofopher, or a ju d icio u s
divine ; b u t, being filled by illiterate zealots, th e ir
m anner o f queitioning young perfons, relative to
-their fenfations arifing from attachm ents, & c. & c.
has not feldom b een the fubjefil o f obfervation
and cenfure.
M o re inform ation refpecting the extraordinary
m illions o f L ay M ethodift-preachers, in the coun­
try , m ay be copioufly collected from the E vangelical
a n d other M agazines, ftill in circulation, u n d e r
th e head o f R eligious, or M iffionary In tellig en ce.
P e rh ap s thefe are neither of the low eit nor the
m o il m ifchievous d efcrip tio n ; how ever, all m u d
te n d to ihew , th at, “ the interefting ftatem ent o f
fafits ” contained in the R ep o rt o f the D iocefe of
L in c o ln is “ really applicable to a great p a rt o f
“ th e kingdom ,” and th at the com plaint ferioufly
c a lls for the attention of th e L egiilature, by th e
in le t w h ich it gives to Socinianifm , D eifm , and even.
A th e ifm . A n d , farther, th at, " the fam e m eans
“ m ig h t, w ith equal efficacy, be em ployed to fap
“ a n d overturn the Hate, as w ell as the c h u rc h ;
" o f w h ich fome flagrant inftances have n o t b e e n
_______ it
“ w anting:.”
O
I f th e fam e fcrutiny, thus happily b eg u n in th e
D io c e fe o f L incoln, ihould be applied in L o n d o n ,
w e fhall th en find the fame defigns o f thefe low
a n d b ig o tted Seftarifts branched out into a thoufand
m a p e s . O ne of their m ethods, n o t generally
n o w n , and in w hich fome o f the m oil illiterate
e a r a principal part, is, in qualifying them felves
n?ore public miniftry, by vifiting the lick-poor
r• - ^ lr o w n houfes; being em ployed, by various
le *e s’ rath er w ith a view of m aking profelytes
° f a *Jev' ^ e , as they profefs, th e tem poral
Io n s v T t indigent and fic k : for, if th e per-
1 1 ed h ear their exhortations w ith p atien ce,
half-
Digitized by Google
Half-a-crown is the utmolt reward of iheir atten­
tion ; and the vifits and the donation may be re­
peated twice or thrice. But if, on the contrary,
no difpoiition is fhewn to adopt the particular '
mode of faith, profeifed by thefe humble Mifiiort-
aries, (I fpeak.from certain knowledge) .inltances
have not been wanting, when they have departed
without leaving any evidences of their charity !
Now, while, by the operation of thefe profelyting
agent's, falfe religion is palmed upon die unwary
for the true; and, while the mere endeavour to
increafe a party borrows the name of piety, it is
evident, that a conftant fource of fcandal, .againit
the eitablifhed church, is kept’open, and daily
adding to thofe uncharitable divifions, of which
Infidels are ever ready to avail themfelves, for de­
preciating religion in general. . . ■
It is much to be lamented, that fo many op­
portunities prefent themfelves to thefe fanatics;
it is, perhaps, one of the incurable evils attendant
upon a numerous population. However,, that
much might be done to counteract them, even
in the. metropolis, is clear, from what has been
done 1already. The memory of the Rey. M r.
Richards, Curate of St. Sepulchre’s in this city,
is Gill freih in the minds of his parifiiioners: his
diligence, during thirty years refidence, in vifiting,
relieving, and admonififing, the lower orders of
people, both within and beyond the bounds of his
parifh, has made an imprefiion on the minds of all
that knew him which will never be effaced,.
Unbleffed with .any brilliancy of parts, or a cap-
rivaling addrefs, his iteady and indefatigable per->',
feverancej •in the line of his duty, alone enfured
him that fame, which he never fought after.
Though truly humble in his-deportment, fo far
from expofing hint,to ififult, his conduCt and ap­
. , II " , pearance
, [ 49 ]
Digitized by Google
[ 50 ]
pearance w ould frequently call forth the w arm efl
w ithes for his w elfare, as he patted through th e
ftreets. H e w as, indeed, gentle and eafy to be in -
treated, and w as frequently k n o w n to rife from
his table, to attend any fudden call for his fervices.
H e died fo truly lam ented, th a t, as m any perfons
can teftify, there w ere very few dry eyes at th e
period of his interm ent in his ow n pariih'-church.
B ut, w ith very little incom e befides his c u racy , ■
it is not to be fuppofed the m any th a t p arto o k
o f his bounty, ow ed their obligations to him alone.
A s I am inform ed, feveral w ell-difpofed perfons,
convinced o f his integrity, depofited their alm s
w ith him , to -b e diftributed at his d ifc re tio n : an
office w hich he had the faculty o f ex ecu tin g w ith ­
o ut letting the receivers feel th eir inferiority,
th o u g h it w as never unaccom panied by fom e
fuitable adm onition. A R everend G en tlem an , in
g iv in g evidence upon the trial of Ja n e G ib b s, at
th e O ld Bailey Sefiions, for S eptem ber, 1799, m e n ­
tio n e d his ow n precaution o f w earing a n .unpow-
dered zvig, bccaufe Clergymen could not pafs along
theftreets zoithout being injulted. A moft furprifing
aflertio n ! for though the late truly-pious C urate o f
o t. S e p u lc h re ’s ufed to be rem arkable fo ra plainnefs
° t d refs, alm oft bordering upon m eannefs, and
yvoie a w h ite bufliv w ig, the populace w ere fo
- Jj.o m hifulting him , that even the b u tch ers
jn h le e t-m a rk e t, and the very low eft and pro-
rg a te chara& ers in the pariih, have borne his
- ^ i ^ ^ o n s w ith tem per and re fp e ft; and this,
j , ^ m o rn ents o f excefs. Severe exam ples, no
a tf.U ’ w o u ld have been m ade o f any perfon
t0 ^ ave trefpaded againft ‘ this truly
p-0 . m a n ’ beyond the bounds o f decency or
k n n « rn ‘ln n e r s ; an inftance o f w hich, w as never
UOWn to have occurred. -
B ut
Digitized by Google
B ilt independently o f the influence o f perfonal
v irtu e, the populace o f this city has never dege­
n era ted fo low , as to juftify the unheard-of p recau ­
tio n o f D r Ford, w hich, if w ell founded, w o u ld
have given fuch o f our G allic neighbours, as have
th ro w n off the Chriftian religion, an idea, th a t w e
w ere in a very hopeful w ay. T h e contrary, I b e ­
lieve, thoufands as w ell as m yfelf are ready to
. teftify.
I t fliould have b een m entioned, that M r.R ich ard s,
having no children, though m arried, took one o f
the girls out o f a large fam ily belonging to one o f
his pariihioners ; n o t to bring her u p as a m enial
fervant, as m ight have been e x p efted , b u t w hom
h e caufed to be educated as one of his ow n ; and,
after his deceafe, (he w as the com panion o f his
pious relift, his conftant im itator in afts o f piety
an d condefcenfion.
B u t befides the public and private duties o f his
o w n parifli, M r. R ichards, for a coniiderable tim e,
w a s engaged in thè painful and difcouraging talk
o f officiating at C lerkenw ell-B ridew ell. H ere, his
adm onitions in the p u lp it w ere alw ays feconded by
a fts of kindnefs to fuch prifoners as ffiewed any
ligns o f contrition and am endm ent ; a ftam p o f fin-
cerity and condefcenfion on his p art, w hich W as
very feldom loft upon the objefts w ith "whom he
w as engaged.
T h e late R ev, M r, R ich ard S outhgate, o f St,
G iles’s in the Fields, w as another of thefe valuable
ch arafters. H e w as, fays one of his biographers,
“ in th è daily h ab it of viliting the retreats o f fick­
“ nefs and m ifery,. and the m oft abandoned and
“ profligate in the holes and corners o f that pariffi.”
A n d y et, like M r. R ich ard s’s pariihioners, they
treated him w ith th at good m anners w hich they
paid no one elfe. I t fliould he pbferyed, th at
H 3 • ,. the
f 51 j
Digitized by Google
the pooreft of the Irifh, w ho form a principal p a rt
o f M r. Southgate’s late parifh, though C atholics,
treat a regular C lergym an w ith confiderable re-
fpe£l.'
Before fuch condudl as this, h o w w retched a
figure m ull the Infidel m axim m ake, “
>T h a t every
“ prieil is either a knave' or a fool.” -A conduct
w hich m ull for ever filence the objeftions both o f
Infidels and fanatics, by dem onftrating, in th e
itrongeft m anner, th at a pallor of, an exem plary
life, is. “ an incalculable blejfing.” P erhaps,
w ith others, w ho have borne the appellation o f
evangelical preachers, the late R ev. M r. B erridge
w as a pallor, jullly eiteem ed a bleffing to his
people.
T h e real friend and com panion o f his parilhion-
ers in the country, M r. B erridge’s charity and of­
ficious attention w as die m oil im prefiive reco m ­
m endation o f the doftrine w hich he delivered from
th e pulpit. In fail, one w ould think the bare re-
collefition of the natural and acquired abilities o f
fuch m iniilers as M effrs. B erridge, Percy, P eck -
w ell, & c.-w o u ld force a blulh for the com panion
b etw een them and L ady A n n ’s preachers ; b u t,
fo r the credit o f the caufe, this L ad y w ould b e
th o u g h t to fupport, it is hoped th at, in future, fom e
ed u catio n w ill be a .firjl and not a s e c o n d a r y
consideration for thefe young m en, at prefent d e ­
corated as fcholats, w hile, inilead o f being a p t to
te a c h ; their friends pity, and their enem ies deride
th em : fo that the injunflion once delivered to
fom e others, viz. “ to tarry at Jerufalem . till th eir
beards w ere grow n,” feem s particularly applicable
to their fiate and condition.
. Innovations, in m atters o f faith, alw ays w eak en
the obligations o f religion, and fom etim es fcanda-
]ize its profelfors; of courfe, th e opinions o f Bar.on
' . " ■ • Sw edep-
[ ¿2 ]
Digitized by Google
Sw edenborg, approaching nearer th an any others
.to m odern Infidelity, m ay be fuppofed to have ad-
m iniftered in proportion to the obje£tions of D eifts
and A theifts. W hat rnuft thefe th in k of a fe£t, w ho,
u n d er the appellation o f Chriftians, explain aw ay
th e do& rine of the atonem ent, the refurre& ion, and
th e day o f ju d g m e n t? L e t them be told, th at,
from the canon of the N ew T eftam ent, this new
fe£t have excluded all the Epiftles, w hich they
clafs as private letters ! T h a t w ith them the day
of ju d g m en t is m ore a figure than a fa c t; th at it
Com m enced about 1758, in the printing and p u b ­
lication o f the ju d g m en t of E m m anuel Sw eden­
borg, to condem n, colle& ively, all the doflrincs
o f the Old, or T rinitarian, church.
* T hefe and feveral other opinions, held by the
difciples o f the N ew church, w o u ld certainly
m eet m uch of the approbation of Infidels, as fome
o f the m oil eligible m eans of bringing C hriilianity
in general into difreputc.
T h e principal article o f this felf-called New
church, it Ihould be obferved, is juft *as Old as
M u g g leto n a n d R e e v e s; w ho, after the protec-
torihip o f O liver, w ere the firft w ho publifhed, th at
the w hole godhead is circum fcribed in the perfpn
o f Je iu s C hrift, ilill retaining the hum an form in
h e a v e n ; the belief of loliich, and not repentance,
both M uggletonians and Sw edenborgians ehforce
upon their follow ers, as the firjl and moft effential
condition of gofpel acceptance. .
N otw ithftanding all the recom m endation' o f a
pom pous- w orfhip am ong the new fe£t of Svveden-
borgians, the fantaftical difpofal of th e .two officia­
ting m inifters in one chapel, and the drefs o f the
paftor in another, im itating a Chef de Famillc,
am ong the F rench theophilanthropifts, a n ew li­
turgy, and the fubftitution of the nam e o f the
' . tem ple
' [ 53
Digitized by Google
tem ple for th at o f church, fo flow is th eir progrefs
in m aking profelytcs, that to prepare for a d ecen t
, retreat, fome o f their leaders have publiihed an.
opinion, th at it never w as the defign of the illum i­
nated Baron, to found any new m ode o f public
w orihip upon his doctrines.
B ut notw ithftanding this hint, and a previous
failure at the W eft end o f the tow n, another tem ­
ple has been opened in Y ork-ftreet, St. Ja m e s’s,
nam ely, the late R om an C atholic chapel ; into
w hich, if fome perfons ihould enter, w hile the m i-
nifter (according to a form er cuftom in the tem p le,
n ear H atton-G arden) is reading w ith his b ack
tow ards the congregation, the place m ay ftili
b e tak en for w hat it has been, and tend to con­
firm the vulgar opinion o f a refem blance b etw een
this Xczv church, and the Old church of R om e. .
. I lav ing failed of fuccefs in the E aftern part of
the m etropolis, w hich abounds w ith religious per-
fuafionsof all denom inations, m echanics, and others,
w ith lefs learning and leifure to m ake inquiries,
th an the inhabitants of the C ourt end o f the tow n,
it requires no gift of prophecy to p red ift the fate of
the N ew church in Y ork-ftreet, St Ja m e s’s. A s
for the apology, that it never w as the w ill o f the
B aron to 'eftab lifh a new form o f w orihip, after a
feries of unfuccefsful attem pts for tw elve years paft,
it is nothing m ore than a clum fy attem pt to m ake a
virtue o f neceflity. T h e real caufe of this p rep ara­
tion, for a decent exit, is in the d ottrines them felves,
w hich have too m uch o f th e m etaphyfics for the
head, and too little energy for the h e a rt; and o f
courfe are not adapted to obtain any lafling intereft
w ith the generality of m en, after their novelty has
fublided. N or can they produce th at change upon
the profligate, w hich fucceeds to ftronger m otives,
congenial w ith the natural ideas w hich uncontam i­
nated
Digitized by Google
, : [ ** j .
n ated ju d g m en ts entertain o f the refults o f virtue
and v ic e : a change, w hich notw ithitanding alw ays
follow s a cordial belief of the doftrines generally
tau g h t by the Old Church of E n g la n d ; b u t w hich
th e New and enlightened Church, is led to confider
as “ a tiffue of ihocking abfurdities.”
. A s the origin o f Sw edenborgianifm in this coun­
try differs from th at o f any other religion th a t 'I
k n o w of, a little farther digreihon m ay be excufed.
In m oll cafes, n ew fe£ts have been colle& ed by
the fuperior addrefs or elocution o f the original
founders. T h u s, in the inilance o f M ethodifm ,
the pow erful appeals m ade to the m inds of n u m ­
bers o f people, grounded upon the doctrines o f the
C hurch o f E ngland, did really excite and perfuade
great bodies o f them to adopt its principles, feeling
their m ental . intereft in fo doing. N ot fo, the
founders of Sw edenborgianifm , a fe tt, w hich literally
originated in. a p rin ter’s jo b ! being h atched in the
parifh o f C lerkenw ell, near the fpot w here the
B aron had his obfeure lodging, viz. at a hair-drefr
fer’s, in B ath-ftreet, C old-B ath-F ields, w hile he
refided in this country. Its n ex t appearance w as in
an alley, in L ittle E aftcheap, partly in the m odern
and falhionable form of a debating fociety : b u t,
inftead of preachers collecting the p eople, thefe
people w ere fo hard run to collect preachers,
th a t for a confiderable tim e the office w as g e ­
nerally. confined to the. printer alluded to, and
one o f his. relatives. A fter forne o f the B aron’s
w orks w ere tranflated, and publiffied in this
city, the idea of quickening a heavy fale m ight
have had its w eig h t in the attem pts to m ak e
them the bafis o f a new m ode of w orihip. T h e
celebrity o f the Baron w as, in the next, place, dif-
fufed by the publication o f the M ag azin e o f H e a ­
ven and H ell j and a R om ance, calculated to in­
troduce
Digitized by Google
troduce his, or rather the principles of his editor’s",
am ong the la d ie s; fo th at w ith the fubfequent la­
bours of fem e ingenious m en, and the afliftance o f
a few of the w ealthy, in opening T em ples at M an -
chefter, B irm ingham , & c. they have hitherto co n ­
trived to k eep the nam e o f the fe£t alive, notw ith-
ftanding fome fteps have b een taken for w ith d raw ­
ing altogether from any farther exhibition irr public.
V et, if appearances are to be trufted, the moft h e ­
terodox opinions that ever bore the nam e of C hriiti-
anity, w ill not trouble the orthodox m uch longer.
T his p ageant, this pantom im e o f religion, having
no fund of fupport, but a ilender annuity in the
lives o f a 'few w ealthy individuals, can never de-
feend to pofferity, nor exift b u t as an ad ditional'
article in the catalogue of fome A lex an d er R ofs’s
H iifory o f A ll R eligions. From appearances, one
w ould fuppofe this fe£t already verging tow ards
ban k ru p tcy , as it is not long firtce a fubfeription
w as opened to reprint the w orks of the Baron, in
w hich the fmall fum o f one penny a w eek w as not
unacceptable.
H o w are the m ighty .fallen !
T h e late difpofition for a m ore extenfive fuller-*
arice of the R om an C atholic religion, and efpecially
the relief of the unfortunate E m igrant C lergy, h as
not only been the fubjefit of bitter inveftive in the!
clubs, b u t out of them , fome zealots, bearing th e
Chriftian nam e, have gone fo far as to publiih heavy
cenfures upon the late R ev. W . R om aine, m erely
for colleffir.g alm s for the E m igrants. P eople o f
this cult, and thofe profeilm g Infidelity, w ifhed to
' ft-e all the ancient anim ofities b etw een Proteftanf
and Papift, revived in .th e prefent w ar. T o inflam e
the Proteltants againft a governm ent th at en ter­
. ed into an alliance w ith Popifh pow ers ; and,
laltiy, w ith the Pope hirofelf, w as a favourite un-
l d e rta k in g ;
[ 5 6 ] ; .
>
Digitized by GoogIe
dertaking; but here, exclufively of political mo­
tives, thefe calumniators, were not aware, that
their own partizans in irreligion, the French
Robefperians, by proclaiming death an eternal
deep, and other enormities,, had left their oppo­
nents no medium to choofe between Atheifm, and
the old eftabifhed religion of the country. The
new philofophy then, by its unqualified oppofitiori
to the Catholic religion, was the indireft c'aufe of
all the protection, the latter has fince met with from
tjie enemies of the republic.
Glad, indeed, would have been the partizans of
Atheifm, could they have perfuaded Diflenters,
and others, that the Proteftant religion was really
in danger. But, unhappily for them, while they
were fpreading alarms of the growth of Popery,
fome of its chapels in the metropolis* were actually
Uiut up, for want of their ufual fupport from
abroad. And thus, from the charity of the Engliih
Clergy towards the Emigrants, the enemies of both
were reduced to the neceility of branding an ex­
emplary virtue with the character of a vice !
In concluding this narrative, I have th^confcious
fatisfaction, that I have removed none of the ancient
landmarks between things faCred and profane;
that I have adminiftered to no new fe£t or divifion;
and that my defign, however -weakly executed, has
not been to deftroy, but to build u p ; to ftrengthen
the weak, and confirm the feeble. But did leCta-
rians, who build fpeculative opinions, even upon
the ancient foundations, previouily reflect, theycould .
have little hope of benefiting mankind. If they
fail in their attempts, they only reap ihame and
remorfe; and, if they fucceed, it is probable, that
they lay the foundation of new feuds -and diflen-
tions; and, like the madman mentioned in the
Proverbs, “ fcatter firebrands, arrows, and death.”
I Having
Digitized by Google
• Having now gone through a detail of all the
late branches of modern Infidelity, without the leait
known deviation from matter or fail:; and having
ihewn that the focieties owed their diffolution prin-
' cipally to the reaXion of their own maxims and
opinions, I ihall now leave the application of thefe
faXs to the country at large,
But, as there are numbers, who ftill indulge the
ruinous fentiments of Deifm and Atheifm, and
only wait for an opportunity of rallying their fcat-
tered forces, I ihall now offer a few more reflexions
upon the operation of thofe fentiments ; not merely
as they have hitherto been argued from, in books j_
but as they have occurred in real life, fince the
habit of difbelieving the Chriftian religion has been
faihionable. In thefe reflexions I flatter myfelf
that I ihall demonftrate the blindnefs of Infidels,
in perilling to ihut their eyes againft the cleareil
ponviXions of trlith and reafon.
[ 58 ] ' .
GENE-
" Digitized by Google
J
m
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
On the Influence of Infidel Opinions upoh Society ;
anjivering the various Objections of Modern Deifts
and Atheifts againft the Doctrines of Chrijtidnity.
, S io n levé moment(im apitd nos habet cönfenfus omnium, aut
timentium inferos, aut colentium.
Se n e c a .
H . , . . . . . . . • . . , .
A H ER E is, undoubtedly, a fecret caufe, wHy the
moil convincing arguments, hitherto urged againft
modern Deifm and Atheifm, have failed of effe£t*
biz. a general, perfuaiion among the illuminated,
the new pretenders to philofophy, “ that, under
“ fome fyfteni of government more 'favourable*
“ than the prefeilt, their do£trines will certainly
“ difplay their fuperiority, in exterminating thefe
u vices and individual calamities, which, during the
*
* prefent order of things, muft remain as they are.”
Now, without waiting for this imaginary period,
the beft mode of investigating the iolidity,of this
affertion, will be to examine what progrefs has
been made in this fuppofed fcale of perfetpon.
. 1 2 ' . ■ As
\
Digitized by Google
ÀS Infidels have a natural antipathy to miracle?,
they will the more readily admit, that every fpecies
' of reformation has its gradations ; the progrefs,
therefore, that you have already made upon a part,
of the community, is the beil criterion to enable
us to judge of your probable fuccefs upon the
whole. . . .
To come to matter of fa£l -, During the five
years in which the diflemination of your opinions
has been comparatively free, Have any of you been
able to convince the whole circle of your acquaint­
ance, a whole houfe, or a whole family, of the fal-
fity or irrationality of the Chriftian doftrines ?
If to thefe interrogations you are compelled to'
anfwer, No ; Where then is the probability of your
fucceeding upon a larger feale ?
' The Roman fatyrift, Juvenal, has obfetved, that
a fingle houfe will {hew. whatever is done or fuffered
in the world ; it then follows that, if the little
’ Theatre, upon which you have acted, had been en­
larged, it would only have expofed you fo much
the more, to the hifics and infults of a difappointed
audience.- In fa£f, the recent {hutting up of the
great Theophilanthropic Theatre in Paris, though
fuppqrted by all the urength of the Republican'go-
vernment, is a convincing proof, that no inferior
attempt will ever fucceed, especially in a country,
which, in oppofition to the comparative levity ot
the French, has borne the proud.diftin&ion of “ A
“ nation of philofophers.” ,
Dellitute of every kind of public worfhip, beyond
>a mere fete or ihew, I would afk you, what im­
preffion this is likely to make upon fullen and un­
toward difpofitions ? Levelling all diftinftions be­
tween fac.red and profanç, you, alai! have no hiftory
either to feize the imagination, or intereif the paf-
fwwis. But, without this, be your public inftitutions
. ' 1 or
' • C 60 ] ,
" 7 Digitized by Cj O O Q I C
or your Religioüs Fêtes ever fo fplendid, ftill, as
Pliny laid of the Circean games ; Nihil novum, nihil
varium, nihil quod nonfemelfpectaffe /official, mud
ever apply to fuch exhibitions. Not fo, either the
doftrines or dogmas of the Chriftian Religion, they
are fuited to every neceffity, and adapted to every
difpofition. Even the diversity and variety of fenfes,
attached to the different parts of the facred Scrip­
tures, are the ground of unanimity upon general
principles ; they fix the attention, they excite the
difcurfive faculties in the mind, or they eleyate or
fuftain it under adverfitv ; while the cold and un-
diverfified fymmetry, which your fyftem of reafon
would fugged, grows- wearifome by its famenefs,
and difgulting from its uniformity. Indeed, while
you muft acknowledge, that the “ pallions are the
elements of life, ” your introdu&ion of a fyftem,'
which tends to quench, or deftroy them, is one of
the moft glaring of inconfiftencies. '
We, you fay, only wifh to cultivate and improve
the faculty of reafon ; this leads to the charge of
another abfurdity and inconfiftency in your conduft
as philofophers, which I fhall immediately confider.
Is it poffible that the cultivation of reafon ihould
be your principal objeft, while you are actually
deftroying or undermining the ftrongeft incitements
to the exercife of the reafoning powers ? I am
aware, that in confequence of your prejudices, you
will not readily comprehend this charge -, but I will
explain myfelf. The great truths of Religion, which
fix and recall the wandering fenfes and affeftions of
men, you endeavour to refolve into vain féârs and
ufelefs chimeras. Thofe fentiments, which power­
fully ftimulate the mind to a calculation of the pro­
bable effects of moral good or evil, you deride as
folly and enthufiafm ! You muft know that a vola­
tility and inconftancy of mind is common to vouth ;
1 and
f 61 ] '
Digitized by Google
and that It is indifpenfably neceffary to fix tills Vo*
latility, before the faculty of laying down premifeSj
and reafoning from conclufions, dan be introduced.
You fhould know alfo, that the attachment of pains
and penalties to the non-performance of thefe con^
ditions is neceffary to excite men to a£tiort: but in-
ftead of the ftrong motives of everlafting happinefs
and mifery, as they are expreffed in the Scriptures,
what are the inducements of your code ? The Rea­
fon and Fitnefs of Things! the perfuafion that
virtue is its own reward; that human actions are ne­
ceffary ; that man is accountable to man only for
any of his a£tions ! As thefe are charges which you
can neither palliate nor deny, will you have the
effrontery to affert, that the laxity and indifference
attending thefe notions have not an indire£t ten­
dency to annihilate the neceffity of reafon or calcula­
tion r Men who cannot be interefted in your creeds,
beyond giving them a bare affent, can never fup-
pofe themlelves under the neceffity, either to com­
pare or judge of the probabilities, or improbabilities
of any other fyftem; and principally becaufe, be­
yond the opinion of the world, they have no flake
to hazard.
On the other hand, the Chriflian, however mean
his natural abilities may b e ; however weak and
unpraftifed his reafoning faculties, if once roufed
from his vices, or fupinenefs, by the awakening voice
of Religion, it is more than a hundred to one, if
his reafoning powers are not much improved by the
change. It then becomes his irrefiftible interefl to
reafon upon the confequences of emerging from, or
apoftatizing into, the ftate from which he had been
awakened. In fa£t, he not only becomes a Na-
turalift, but he may exalt his faculties (till higher, by
eontemplating the nature and attributes of Deity,-
or thofe intelligences fuperior to man j a fphere to
. which
[ 6
2 ] '
Digitized by Google
«
!
which the poor alienated Infidel has no excitement.
The- Chriftianj in the former ftate, like the prodigal
fon reftored to the houfe of his father, truly enjoys
an intellectual feaft; while the Infidel, a fugitive,
and an outfcait, and efpecially, if he be a fenfualift,
may be faid to feed upon the hv/ks with the Jloine.
Deluded men ! and is this the ilate of degradation
for which you plead ? Reafon, you affert, is the great .
object for which you contend f and yet, rejecting
the doCtrine which can'belt allay and tranquillize
the impetuous paflions, and forfaking that calm
region where its voice can only be heard, you de-
ftroy the means by which you ihould arrive at the
end propofed ! That many of you are not reafoners,
at leal! from your own principles, cannot be denied.
But. what was the primeval caufe of this exertion ?
Moil of your leaders, originally profeffing the
Chriilian Religion, are indebted to its faith and'
doCtrines, for the primam mobile, which gave the
firft impulie to their rational faculties; firft excited
and iharpened the talent of inveftigation : nor would
they have been able to wound Religion, if they
had not firft ftolen her arrows.
Perhaps, the thunders of that religion, you now
deride', were the means of arrefting fome. of you in
a Courfe of fenfuafity, which would ultimately have
fmothered every latent fpark of ratiocination then
dormant in your minds ; and does it thus become
you' to depreciate the only medium, by which you
have rifen to your recent diftinCtion ? Still, this
abfurdity, peculiar to modern Infidelity, does not reft
here ; for degenerating into downright ingratitude,
like an offspring perfectly unnatural, you chiefly
fuftain your charafter by defcanting upon the vices
or frailties of the parent ftock; beyond the fphere
of declamation, you cannot exift. The reforma­
tion you pretend to advocate, would be your ruin.
" ' ' ' . ' Like
[ 63 ]
Digitized by Google
Like the animalcule, bred upon the filth of creation,
you delight in clinging to the weak fide of hu­
manity. You have no .fuitenance which you do
not derive from its wounds. No foundation
which is not built upon the ruin of others. Your
confequence is enhanced by their degradation ; and
your unanimity derives all its force from the divi-
fions, you are the firft to create or extend. Thefe
charges, barfh as they may appear, I am not dif-
pofed to fix in the malignity of your nature, but
rather, in an over-weening vanity and affeCtation of
knowledge. But as this mania has almoft exclu-
fively taken poifeifion of young minds, it may be­
hove you to relied upon the influence thefe fcepticaj
opinions may have in future upon your own happinefs,
as fathers, huibands, and other relatives. Ceafe,
then, to boaft of perplexing a few weak minds
by a hackneyed firing cf common place arguments,
or drawing a multitude, by the torrent of your de­
clamation : the majority of your objections to the
Chriftian doctrines, as it will prefently appear, are
grounded upon prejudice, and the want of a proper
difcrimination.
Firft, I obferve, that what are called the atrocious
crudities of the Bible Hiftory, are in the mouth of
every objector who has read Paine’s Age of Reafon,
without pending the Anfvver of the Bifiiop of Llan-
daff. But even granting the full force of the In­
fidel’s objections, without infilling upon the purity
of circumftances in Cod’s government of the na­
tural world, fo judicioufly urged by the learned
Bifiiop, I would fain know, what influence thefe
hiftorie's of cruelty have upon the generality of
Chriftians ? The aCts complained of, were moftly
perpetrated by Princes ; from whence there is little
danger of their examples upon the people ; upon
the fcore of inability : and befides, thefe aCts are
. • placed
[ 64 ] ■ ,
Digitized by Google .
placed at fuch a diftant period, and are neceffarily,
involved in fuch a peculiarity of circumftances, as
to produce very little, if any effed, upon the man­
ners of civil fociety. ■
If the Infidel will ftill urge, that this inefficacy of
example is equally applicable to the ads ofpiety and
benevolence recorded in the Scriptures, I anfwer,
that upon the latter, the minds of men are fond of
dwelling-with complacency and delight, and will
frequently revolve them in their recolledion ; while
deeds of comparative atrocity are paffed over with
indifference, and feldom, or ever made the fubjed
of meditation, nor even recurred to, without ne-
ceffity ; or, in the courfe of their reading or wore
ihip. To prove the charge brought by Infidels, it
is incumbent upon them to iliew that thofe deno­
minations of Chriftians, who have drank the decpeft
of Scripture knowledge, have perpetrated the
greateft proportion of barbarities. Unhappily for
Deifts and Atheifts, the contrary has been the fad,
as the Papifts, to whom the reading of the Scrip­
tures has been the moil part prohibited, have been
almoil exclufiVely the perpetrators of the enormi­
ties, uncandidly charged upon Chriftians in ge­
neral.
The natural cruelty of the Mahometans, is ano­
ther argument in favour of thq humanity of the
Chriftian fyftem; notwithftanding the opinion of
Infidels, that the former approach the neareft of the
two, to the ftandard of reafon. .
But, religious perfecution, though not peculiar
to the Chriftian Religion, attaches to bigots of every
defcription ; confequeritly it is an imputation, from
which unbelievers are by no means free. Helvé­
tius, one of the moil eminent of the modern mate-
rialifts, obferves, “ there are few men who would.
“ not employ violence to engage the world to adopt
K “ their
C 65 ] ,
Digitized by Google
[ 66 ]
# • • *
“ their fentiments, if they had it in their power.’*
,A ftronger truifm than this could not have been pro­
nounced, had Helvetius been an eye-wifnefs to all
the petty malignities made ufe of by his fucceffors
to the prefent day. Very little experience, among
this kind of people, is quite fufficient to ihew, that
a perfecuting fpirit is not peculiar to the Chriftian
communities. -
Modern Infidels frequently calumniate our reli­
gion, in oppofing the forbearance of Pagans to
what they call, the perfecuting fpirit of the Chrif-
tians ; a vice from which they lay,’the former were
quite exempt. But to undeceive fuch perfons, I
fhall prefent them with the following inftances of
the contrary of their aflertions, feledted by a recent
writer in favour of Chriftianity. '
Afpafia, having been accufed of impiety, owed
her father’s life to the interceilion of Pericles, and
the tears he ihed while pleading her caufe.
Anaxagoras, of Clafomenae, was in danger of
lofing his head, for alferting that the fun was a
huge mafs of hot iron. .
Diagoras, of Melos, had a talent fet upon his
head, for ridiculing the religious myfteries.
Protagoras, having queftioned the exiltence of
the gods, only efcaped death by flight.
And, laftly, Socrates was compelled to drink
poifon at Athens, by an exprefs law of that city,
againft any perfon who fliould be the introducer of
a new god.
But leaving the ancients-to inquire, whether
modern Infidels would not be as violent perfecu-
_tors as any others whom they accufe, and even
. greaterthan Chriftians have been ; this, I prefume,
may be determined by a few plain queftions, and
their anfwers. Firft, fince it is evident that the
hopes and comforts of Infidels are bound up in the
• pleafures
Digitized by G o o g l e
. [ c l ] ■
pleafures and enjoyments of the prefent life; is it
not undeniable, that any perfons, propagating d
fyftem which tends to difturb their purfuits, inter­
rupt their enjoyments, dr leffen .their confequence,
muft render themfelves bdious ? 1
Is it in.the power of the laws to fupprefs or con-
troul the private hatred, oraninrofity, of Infidels
againft theif opponents ? ‘
Is it not alfo probable, that calumny and con­
tempt will be made ufe of to ruin the credit of fuch
perfons, who may innocently fuppofe the prefent
life not to be the ultimatum of all their hopes and
happinefs ?
But while Chriftians ■might thus expofe them­
felves to the perfecutions of Infidels, the probability
that the latter would .not be perfecuted in return ;
or that their retaliation would be confiderably lefs in­
proportion, than that of the former, 19 evident front
Various confideratiohs. For inftdnce l
,
The Chriftian, expecting a Hearing before another
tribunal, may bear with many offences and repeated
wrongs j and, therefore, will be lefs liable !than
the Infidel to retaliate an injury upon his neigh­
bour, -or enemy. ' '
: He may alio be quickened in this fpirit of for­
bearance; by the confideration, that he obeys one
of the pofitive commands of the Gofpel; and that;
by the patient endurance Of other men’s faults;
he ihall the better enfure the forgivenefs of his
own.
And, upon the fame belief, he- may even go far­
ther, by returning good for evil.' ■
• Now, as Infidelity acknowledges neither motives
nor objeCts of this kind, its objections to Chriftia-
hity,-upon the ground of cruelty, or perfecution,
are proved to have no real foundation in. fa£t.
K 2 , We
Digitized by Google
We have alfo been told, ihat the wifdom of
a nation may be feen in its proverbs. To the ad­
vantage of Chriftianity, then, we may remark, that •
the Mahometans have an adage, expreffing that*
“ He who forgives an injury, does w ell; but he
“ that revenges it, does better/’ A maxim this,
which, however it may aifimilate with Infidelity,
militates againft both the letter, and the fpirit of
the Chriftian religion.
Having done with the charge of perfecution, I
muft advert to ' the Infidel’s opinion of the Reafon
and Jitnefs of things, which they recommend as ai
ftandard to try the abfurdity of Chriftian doftrines j
and which, if we could give them credit, thefe
gentlemen have the exclufive privilege of exhibit­
ing to advantage. , If fo, how is it that their de-
monftrations have been repeated, years after years,
without effeft; and that people in general ftill re-
je£t their folutions of the phenomena around them ?
How is it that your notion of the origination of all
things from a confufed mafs of atoms;—that there
is no other God than the univerfe ;•*
—
that all the
men and animals, which deftroy each other, are only
parts and modifications of the fupreme Being ;■
*
—
that matter firft fet itfelf in motion 5—that man’s
fuperiority to the brute refults entirely from his or­
ganization that he is like a piece of mechanifm,
• or a plant, and that when he dies, all dies with
him :— I fay, what is the reafon that thefe opinions
of yours, gain no more evidence than they have
done, though they have wanted none of the advan­
tages of rhetoric or elocution to recomend them to
the world? How is it that thefe leaves, from your
- tree o^ knowledge, fo flattering to human vanity^
meet with no more admirers ? How is it that the
great mafs of people do not join iflue with you. in
the
[ 68 1
Digitized by Google
the fupport of thofe opinions, which ate to fréè
them from the fetters of their education, and the
prefiure of fuperftition and tyranny ? But above
all, How is it that your doftrines cannot deliver
men from their perfonal vices and defeHs, and the
predominance of evil habits and paflions ? You
mull acknowledge that, after all your perfeverancé
and indefatigable endeavours to enlighten them,
they do not comprehend the magnitude and im­
portance of your fchemes ! otherwife, they could
. not reje£t them ! What then becomes of yovir Rea-
fon and Fitnefs qf things ? This queftion mud re-
folve itielf into One df thefe folutions “ Either you
“ are notfit to teach ;—or it is notfit that mankind
“ ihould be fo inftru&ed.”
The fuperior efficacy of the Chriftian do&rine
Upon the minds, even of fuch men as are, or
have been, immerfed in vice and folly, cannot be
difputed, but by thofe who are enveloped, in pre­
judices, which I have found as prevalent among
infidels as any defcription ofChriftians whatever.
One of the principal obftacles to your inftru&ion,
I find to be, that nattering notion of Mr.- Paine,
“ that every man’s mind is his own church.” ,
Some of you are ready to deify M r. Paine for
this difcovery ;—but let me tell you, he was not
the firft that broached this deleterious noftrum ;
it was in the mouths and writings of almoft all the
feftarifts that diftrafted this kingdom, between the
reigns of Charles the Firft and Second. It is a
principle, virtually acknowledged by the Quakers,
and was very pointedly urged and infifted upon,
by a perfon in the laft century, known by the ap­
pellation of Cobler How.; in a pamphlet entitled,
“ The Sufficiency of the Spirit’s Teaching apd
in plain fenfe, means very little jmore, than that
every
[ 69 ]
Digitized by Google
[ 70 ]
every man loves to be led by his1own whims and
fancies, as foon as ever he becomes a D iffentef
from the eftabliihed order of the church. T h is
explanation, I think, is well warranted by the
conduct of thofe who have, from time to time*
adopted the principle of fdf-fufficiency. .
In Taft, fo far from anfwering the end propelfed,
either by Infidels or Sectarifts, I have generally
-obierved, that when this notion is reduced to p ra c ­
tice, inftead of being fufficient for the teaching of
all, it has been the principal reafon why none have
been fufficiently taught! In cafes of comnion life,
men naturally afk"the advice of others, but here,
in a concern of the laft importance, evefy m an ’s
knowledge is fuppofed fufficient for himfelf.
• In no tingle point whatever has the ignorance of
Atheifts and Deifts appeared fo glaring, as w heti
they affeft a capacity for Bible criticifm. Mr,
Paine’s obfervations, under this charafter, might be
correfted by many fchool-boys. With him, neither
metaphor nor allegory is allowable in religion!
The Book of the Revelations he condemns at once
as a book of enigmas; at the fame time, the 19tH
Pfalm, which is almofi: a complete allegory, is, in his
eftimation, a Chef cTimre! In fa£t, if the Ityle of
Our religious initruftions could be fquared, accord-
to the demonftrations of Euclid, at which ■
•.-Paine feems to hint, all his reproach upon the
Quakers; about “ a drab-coloured creation, ” as
the refult of their tafte, would, with equal pro­
priety, apply to himfelf. Several of Mr. Paine’s
notions are borrowed, but his criticifm is all his
. Tire finall number of Chriftians, in eompdrifort
with the great majority of Pagans and Mahomet
tans in the world, is an objection, I will not call
it an argument, almoft idolized by Deifts and Athe-
own,,
ills
Digitized by e
ifts. It is, I acknowledge, formidable in its firft
appearance; but, on a dole infpedion, it foon
lofes its confequence. I will not only admit the
relatively fmall number of Chriitians in the world,
but that they are equally fmall among ourfelvcs,
fo few there are who live up to the fpirit of Chrif-
tianity. This conceflion, however, m akes' no­
thing againft the univerfality of the Chriitian Re­
ligion, but rather tends to its eftabliihment, be-
caufe, among Pagans and Mahometans, there are,
on the other hand, many who, living above the
dictates of thofe falfe fyitems, are, in the beit fenfe,
true Chriitians. .Hence, as it is.expreffed in A tts x.
v. 34, 35. “ God is no refpe&er'of perfons, but
“ in every nation he who feareth him and work-
*f eth righteoufnefs is accepted with him.”
Chriihanity, then, is more of >a principle than a
profejjion; yet any perfon who could undervalue
the written word, upon this account, would juftly
fall under the cenfure of the Apoftle, Romans,
chap iii. v. 1 , who inflits upon the advantage of
the Jews over the Gentiles, “ Chiefly, that
“ becaufe unto them were committed the Ora~
cles of God.” And unbelievers ihould notice,
that the fame reafoning, ufed by the Apoftle, all
■through the fecond chapter of the Romans, is
exactly applicable to thofe perfons who, at this
time, enjoy the light of revelation, and others who
poflefs it not. Vain then, are the efforts of Infi­
dels, as they fay, to fimplify Religion; and futile'
the attempt to magnify JReafon, by fuppofing the
Light of Nature, and the Revelation of the Gofpel,
to be one and the fame 1 Volney, for this purpofe,
refers me to the remains of Egyptian antiquities; I
examine them, and am difappointed.. As well
might the bigotted Papift appeal to the exterior and
Venerable appearanceoffome Gothic ftrufture;which
- . may
• [ 71 ] .
Digitized by Google
[ ■n 1 * ^
may be fiirveyed by the rational with a figh, while
it is worihipped by the fuperftitious: the former,
penetrating its inmoft recedes, might fcrutinize the
character and principles of the original accupants.
The obfervations of the latter, would probably ex­
tend no farther than the monuments, the ramifica­
tions of the colum ns, the ftoried windows and the
length of the allies!And,, as in many old manfions,
fome apartments are kept locked up, under the pre­
text that they are haunted; fo, the pretended
myfteries of ancient Paganifm, like the rooms in
thefe old manfions, are found, upon the opening, to
contain very little, hefides antiquated dull, or ufe-
lefs lumber.
And now, oh!ye Reformers of ancient opinions,
if your leaders are thus fuperficial and ignorant, how
is it with thofe that are led? The latter, for iiTw
plicit faith, are not furpalfed by any of the Chrifti-
ans you condemn. Among thefe, as faith is de-.
figned to eftabliih an object, it produces and pre-
ferves unanimity. Among you, as your negative
belief is only calculated to remove every reftraint,
except individual whim and caprice, difcontent
and difcord ultimately follow. Where all wilh to
command there is none to obey. Thus you neither
“ enter into reft yourfelves nor fuffer others; you can
“ neither feek peace nor enjoy it.” Within yourown
pale, having no Crimes or failings which yon dare
condemn, you are compelled to feek them in others!
Where every one is a malefactor, none can afiume
the office of cenfor or judge. Where nobility of
mind, is not admitted, all are confidered as bafe;
and, having no fcope for acrimonious propenfities
_at home, this reftraint only tends to iharpen the
daggers you prepare for others, and render
them ftill more deftruCtive. No longer, of any
confequence to each other, you can hope for no im-
1 portance.
Digitized by
iy
Google ‘
;portance, but in proportion as you diftinguilh your-
.lelves by the inroads which you make upon religion,
as your common enemy.
Like the Indian warriors who recommend
-themfelves by the number of fcalps they bring
in, fo muft you exalt yourfelves, or fink into abfo-
,lute infignificance. Similar to the fallen fpirits,
you have no longer any confolation but in mani-
fefting your enmity againft all who have not in­
volved themfelves in your revolt. .Unwilling to
fem e in the Heaven of Religion, you /eem deter-
.mined to reign in the Hell of your own licentiouf-
'nefs; and, having brokenfrom your original orbit,
the harmony and brightnefs of fuperiorintelligence?,
no longer excite in you, the correfpondent fenfations,
of delight and concord.
This parallel, founded upon no fiftion, but upon
a fober truth, I ihall carry no farther, than to ob­
serve, that while the fallen fpirits are admitted to
be eminent for their knowledge, you, not deficient
in pride, are the moft confpicuous for your igno­
rance.
Into fuch a communitv as theirs, who would wifli
to enter, or who, made ienfible of its fpirit and tend­
ency, would wiih to remain ? What Credit or fafety
can be expefted where, religion being excluded,
all the bad paffionsare let loofe, or but feebly con­
fined by the flender tie of human convenience?
Will thofe who look upon every aftion, as.the re-
fult of a felfifh or mterefted motive, refpe£t either
merit or virtue in others ? Where virtue has no
intereft, it has, of courfe, no influence. Where
depravity is under no check, excellence is of no
value. WhereSuperiority creates no generous emu­
lation it is the caufe of envy. And where benevo-
Tence fails to excite gratitude, it only flings the re­
ceiver with a malignant, or uneafy fenfe of his inferi­
ority, and the motives o.fthe donor are conftrued into
■ L ' . . ' fel-
[ 73 ]
Digitized by k j o o o l e
[ 74 ]
felfiihnefs. Perhaps this is the reafon that, among
the difciples of the New Philofophy, Public Chari-
lies are looked upon a Public Robberies. The vifion-
ary reformers o f the prefeftt day have alfo an idea
that the (late can pofitivOly prevent perfonal "and in­
dividual wretchednefs!
The genuine philofopher will not be furprized
at the contention, and privation of real happinefs
among herds of men, equally pretending to phi­
lofophy ! If petty fqabbles and antipathies, in the
literary world, have jultified the poet’s obfervatiofl
of the natural enmity of wits and authors, a num­
ber comparatively fmall, what is to be expe&ed
from a whole community of would-be wits and
rival philofophers ? 1 Till modern philofophy came
in with its moral equality, other civil bodies ufed
to be compofed of head, feet, hands, and other
fubordinate and correfpondent members ; but here
is a community that wiihes to be all head !!! Un­
der the contemplation of this chimerical idea, it
is difficult to name the fenfations which it excites.
Before Deifm and Scepticifm became falhion-
able, or were rarified into Atheifm ; and particu-
' larly, when the former was here and there, the
opinion of fome fpeculatift, or folitary enthufiaft;
handing in the fame relation to multiplied Infidelity
as natural, to artificial fociety; the fpirit of piety,
like the ruftic virtues and artlefs fimplicities of un-
poliihed life, would fomtimes accompany its wan­
derings. Unconne&ed with the “ corrupt ma­
jority” it might then breathe its guilelefs effufions,
to him whole temple it conceived “ all fpace,”
Still, under the mildeft defignation we can be­
llow, this is a branch, indigenous only to the
waftes of fociety, and can never be grafted
upon the common hock. ' To defcend from
figure; the moll innocent of Infidel opinions, once
liberated from the brain that conceived them, and
- , ■ left
* 'Digitized by Google_
I
left to operate, as they recently have done, upon
large and mixed multitudes, can never be ac­
counted for; the multitudes being ever difpofed to
carry thefe theories to extremes never thought of
by the theorift, in whofe clofet they originated. The
circumftance of thefe domeftic opinions being
afted upon, by a political revolution abroad, as I
have before hinted in the introduction to this
work, has alfo given them a feature, altogether
unknown in the annals of this country.
It is a mere quackery, in religion or morals, to
prefcrihe reafon only, as a fpecific for the number-
lefs difeafes of the human mind, Wax is hardened
and diffolved by the fame fun. Nor are all men,
as the Atheifts dream, equally difpofed to virtue
and probity, or even capable of the fame intel­
lectual attainments. If it were not deemed a
crime, by Infidels, to quote Scripture authority,
one might fend thefe modern fmatterers in phi-
lofophy to that excellent Parable of the Sower, in
the New Teftament, in which they may find an
infallible theory of the moral capacities or inca-
parities of the human kind. Though I ihould
not have referred them to Parables, by any means,
had Irecolle&ed their common prejudice againft
thofe parts of the Gofpel, as being purpofcly in­
tended to obfcure, and not illujtrate, the truths
they ihould convey! A mode of reafoning they
would not dare apply to the Fables of iE fop;
though as our Lord makes no.ufe of the perfoni-
fication of trees, birds, bealrs, &c. between the
perfpicuity and fimplicity of the one and the other,
there is no companion. The perverted tafte of
M r. Paine,.for literal InftruCtion only, has led his
imitators to think little of thofe fuperior, and more
ftriking modes of- imprefling doririnal truths, ex­
hibited in the Parable of the good Samaritan, and
others contained in the New Teftament. . Yet
L 2 that
[ 75 ]
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
. • [ 7S ]
that thefe Terpentine difpofitions, which have no
zeft for fublime truths, ihould recoil from the
depofitories, in which they are preferved, is more
the fubje£t of regret, than aftonilhment!
Even the reading of prophane hiftory, through
the medium of your opinions, but too frequently
ftrengthens very hurtful prejudices. General
charges and infinuations againft religion, and re­
ligious meti, are not unfrequent among Hiftorians,
efpecially the moderns. But 'before you proceed
upon fuch ihallow grounds, it is neceffary to
weigh the decifion of one of your own oracles,
M r. David Hume. - The pra&ice of arguing
againft any profeffion, from the abufe.of it, comes
from you with a very ill grace, after he has af-
ferted, that, “ This fophifm is one of the groffeft,
“ and, at the fame time, the moft common to
“ whiqh mien are fubjeft.” He alfo obferves,
that, “ the hiftory of all ages offers examples of
‘‘ the abufe of religion ; but thofe who Would
“ thence draw an inference to the difadvantage
“ of religion in general, would argue very rafhly
“ and erroneoufly. The proper office of religion
“ is to reform men’s lives, to purify their hearts, to
“ enforce all the moral duties, and to fecure obe­
“ dience to the laws and civil magiftrate. While
“ it purfues thefe falutary purpofes, its operations,
“ though infinitely valuable, are filent and ifecret,
‘‘ and Feldom come under the cognizance of hif-
“ tory. The hiftorian, therefore, nas fcarcely any
“ occafion, to mention any other than that adul-
“ terate fpecies of it, which inflames faftion,
“ animates fedition, diftinguiihes itielf upon, the
“ open theatre of the wbrld, &c. and he may
“ retain the higheft regard for true piety, even
while he expofes all the abufes of the falfe.
“ He may even think he cannot better ihew his
“ attachment to the former than by detecting the
“ latter
Digitized by Google
L 77‘ ]
“ latter, and laying open its abfordity and per­
“ nicious tendency.’’
To proceed farther, with refpeft to Hie mental in*
devotion of the new phijofophers; if the mind can,
conceive a continual effervefcence, or figure to
itfelf a family of children in. perpetual warfare
with their parents,, it might have feme idea of
the temper and difpofition of. modem Infidels
towards the Great Creator. While Chriftians
thank, him for their creation, the former do not
think their prefervation worthy an acknowledge­
m ent! In fa£t, deeper in degeneracy, than any
of their predeceffors, through having more light,
they have made themfelves intire flrangers to the
fpirit, or exercife of devotion towards any object
of fupreme worihip. Averfe to. praife, and only
alive in cenfuring the harmony and beauties of Crea­
tion, M r. Edmund Burke’s idea, of “ the heart
“ of a thorough-bred metaphyfician, the cold
“ malignity of an evil fpirit, and not the frailty
f* and paffion of a man,” is by no means harih,
when applied to you !—To the fond hopes and en­
dearing conceptions of the Chriftian, you naturally
oppofe the petrifying refi-fiance of the Torpedo!
Thus fallen,, your mention of the names of a So­
crates, or Antoninus, is a profanation. To pafs
over your degrading fentiments of the Divinity,
not Hie regions of Siberia and the gardens at
Hefperus can produce a ftronger contrail, than
the chilling influence of your opinions, fet in com­
petition with any kind qf worihip, or internal
reverence, of which we can conceive!
“ Go, then, contra&ed Infidel! wkhdraw thy-
“ felf 1H11 farther from the views and comforts of
“ thy fellow-men. Still, confined within thy own
“ narrow fphere of reflefition, perfuade thyfelf thou
“ art. not made for immortality. Avail thyfelf,
if then, by any means, of all the advantages of
' " • “ the
Digitized by Google
[ 78 ]
“ the prefent life: add to thy eftimation of every
periihable good; and, ftifiing fympathy for the
“ fufFerings or Others, let thy own accommodation
“ fupercede every other confideration. Regard­
" lefs of the awards of pofterity, leave it to poets
“ and orators, to dignify the defire of immortality,
“ as the paffion of great minds: tell them, the
“ philofopher; who calculates the refult of human
“ aftions, is not to be duped with pompous
“ phrafes. Reply to them, that, thoufands have
“ periihed for their country, at Rome and Car­
“ thage, whofe names are forgotten. Perfuade
“ thyfelf, that vices, rather than virtues, tend to
“ immortalize a nam e; and, that the records of
if hiftory prefer thofe who have defolated the
dearth. Tell the advocates for humanity,- that
*
*the majority of Heroes have been Tyrants ; and
“ to others, leave the folly of fowing where they
“ ihall never reap. ,
“ From the darkeft corner of the intelle£hial
“ wT
orld, thus continue, like the envenomed fpider,
“ to envelope thyfelf, and all intelligent beings in
“ the cobweb-chains of neceifity. Believe, if thou
“ canft, that every aftion, as well as the means for
“ obtaining its objeft, is impelled by a firft caufe:
“ and that even the hand of a murderer is only a
“ feeble link in the great concatenation of events 1
“ Go on,—but I will withdraw from this precipice,
“ from whence we cannot look down, but with hor-
“ ror and dizzinefs.”
Having now (hewn the invalidity of the expefta-
tion of Infidels, that any change of the political
fyftem would be more favourable to their opinions
than the prefent; that, under the pretext of improv­
ing the faculty of Reafon, their negleft of proper
means to ftimulate and apply it, has a certain,
though indireft, tendency to deftroy the end pro-
pofed. ~ - -
* ' ' Having
Digitized by Goegk
- • . [ ]
, Having refuted the charges of cruelty,.and a
perfecuting fpirit in the Chriftian Religion, and
urged feveral arguments to prove its humanity, fu-
perior to the Mahometan or Infidel fyftem.
Having made it appear that the condition of
Irffidel Society, is neceffarily a fiate of warfare
and competition, fubverfive of good order, dis­
couraging to merit, and deftitute of proper motives
to excite emulation, or prevent a degeneracy of
principle and praftice : Having ihewn the danger
and novelty of relation, in which thefe focieties were
placed by political events, the Quackery of Reafon
as an univerfal medicine in morals, and the ground-
lefs prejudices of unbelievers againft the parables
of the New" Tefiament. .
And laftly, having demonfirated their total want
of devotional tafte, or veneration of the Supreme
Being, or any form of worihip, I iha.ll for the pre-
fent, profecute thefe charges no farther.
If it be faid, that I have lighted up the beacons
of alarm, it is granted ; but 1 have invoked no per-
fecution, nor imprecated any greater puniijiment
upon the .opinions I explode, than the contempt,
and the caution, this expofure muft neceffarily pro­
duce.
Detached from any political agency, the momen­
tary triumphs of individual, or colleftive, infidelity,
are neither to be envied nor feared. . It is a painful,
pre-eminence, and Infidels well know it, when they
again wifli that to be true, which they, had per-
fuaded themfelves was falfe ! Nor let the reader be
furprifed, that I have claffed Atheifts and Deifts in-
difcriminately : for the common practice of Infidels,
to cover themfelves with the name of JDeifts, is a
mere pretext, calculated to efcape the more odious
appellation of Atheifts. For thofe who will not
admit of God’s moral government of the world ;
' nor allow mortals any knowledge of his attributes ;
10 V or
1
Digitized by Google
or who deny, the immortality of the foul, I fay,
Whatever fudh perfons may think to the contrary,
their notions can never prefent 'to the minds of the
. impartial, any other ideas than thofe of doubt, and
a privation of every degree of wbrfhip or affefition ;
•if they do not even exhibit an objeft of abfolute
averfon or -contempt: fo that between fuch Deifm
as this, and ftark Atheifm, there may be a nominal
diftvnction, but no difference. This idea was very
juitly appreciated by the Bifhop of London, in his
Charge to the Clergy of his Diocefe, in 1794.
Speaking of the French j they were, faid he, “ pre-
“ tended Deiits, but real Atheifts. And although
“ the name of a Supreme Being was ifometimes
“ mentioned, yet it was feldom mentioned but with
“ ridicule and contempt. They acknowledged
“ nothing beyond the grave ; and they ftigmatified
“ all opinions different from thefe, with the names
“ of fuperftition, bigotry, prieftcraft, ianaticiim,
“ and impofture.
Thefe dangerous opinions were rendered more
iflufive, by the great names that fanftioned them ;
' but as none Of them are more familiarthan that of
Voltaire, I would caution the young and unwary,
againft any feduftive influence upon this head. It
is wrong, in the Infidels, to oppofe, as'they do, the
difbelief of the French Wit, to the belief of Chrijl-
ianity by the immortal Newton. For, granting that
Voltaire deferred the panegyric of a German No­
bleman, who entitles him “ the -divine Magician
“ whole breath diffipated the thick cloud that
“ covered all Europe, and obferves, that happier
“ in his attempts than Orpheus, he did notflop at
“ humanizing the furies, but metamorphofed the
“ monitors of intolerance, fanaticifm, and blood,
“ into humane and fociable b e i n g s I fay, unlefs
it could be proved that thefe monfters, againft
whom this giarit of French literature exerted
..... himfelf
I ]
Digitized by
\
Mmfelfr were the legitimate offspring, of Chriff-
ianity, thefe pompous phrales mean nothing,
Bat till the tolerating fpirit of Proteftants, and
the perfecuting genius of the Church of Rome,
be proved one and the fame,, the Chriftianity be-
tieved by Newton,, and dijbelieved, by Voltaire, will
remain as effentially different as light and darknefs.
The Rev. Mr. Fellowes, in his Chriftian Phi-
lofophy, with others I could mention, are of the
opinion,, that the late enmity of the French Infidels,,
againft Chriftianity in general, was at firft excited
by the particular enormities mid corruptions of the
. Romifli. Church, “ which accumulating for cen-
“ furies, at laft produced amonfter, which devoured
“ its mother. The Deiftical philofophers might,
“ fays he, have haftened its birth, but they had no
“ ftiare in its formation. Had they been the ef-
“ fential caufe of the decline of Chriftianity, the
“ fame caufe exifting ftill,. would have prevented
“ its revival; but the beft informed travellers aflure
“ us, that Infidelity itfelf is declining, now th e .
“ caufe, which produced it,, is no more.” '
More, and undeniable evidence of this decline,
and the confequent revival of Chriftianity in France,
has fince been brought forward by the invitation
given by Bonaparte, to the return of the Clergy;
the opening of a greater number of churches, and
his own attendance in perfon, at divine worihip.
The conduftors too of the public prints, who,
duringRobefpierre’styranny,had profeffedthemfelves
Atheifts, though all of them may not be fincere in
their recantation, acknowledged their faith in
Chriftianity, in the courfe of March, 1800; a cm
cumftance, fufticiently indicating the altered ftate. of
the public mind in the French nation.
Now, as a collateral proof of the remarks by Mr.
Fellowes, which were written in 1798, it feems this
■ M. . decline.
E 81 l
Digitized by Google
decline had made fuch progrefs in the fummer of
1799, as to occafion the ihutting up of the Theo-
philanthropic Temple, and the opening of fevefal
churches in the French capital. But without rett­
ing upon thefe events, as fa£ts, there are feveral na­
. tural reafons, from which a true philofopher may
infer, “ that the Chriltian Religion, dripped of its
“ abufes, will take a deeper root than before, in
“ the minds and affeftions of the French people.
“ Nor is it unworthy ofremark, that the late Rev. Mr.
“ Fletcher, of Madeley, wrote a letter from Macon,
“ in Burgundy, in 1778, in which he obferved, that
“ Popery Would fall in France in this or the next
“ century.” He adds, “ I make no doubt, God
“ will ufe thofe vain men (the Voltaires, Rouffeaus,
“ Mirabeaus, &c.) to bring about a reformation
“ here, as he ufed Henry V III. to do that work
in England: fo the madnefs of his enemies
“ wT
ill at laft turn to his praife and the furtherance
" of his kingdom.”
I fhall only obferve, that of the permanence of
this approaching change, no rational doubt can be
entertained. Having borne the laft and moft violent
Ihocks of Apoftacy and Infidelity, no hope now
remains for the Infidel, that the light of Chriftianity
fhall ever be extinguifhed, but with time itfelf. The
veil of pretended philofophy has been tom
afunder, and its features expofed to fhame and de-
rifion ; while the beauties of Religion have in-
creafed feven-fokh This bright conftellation having
received its impetus from the hand of the Divinity,
no human effort can refill its progrefs. That it
may penetrate the darkeft regions of the earth,,
ought to be the fince're wiih of every man, who
has the leaft pretence to found reafon or under-
ftanding.
POST-
• . . - [ 82 ]
Digitized by Google
POSTSCRIPT.
Chronological Sketch of the Origin, and. Progrefs
of Infidelity, in England, anterior to the French
Revolution.—-Remarks upon Prof(for Robifon.—
New Illuftrations of German Literature.—Beau­
tiful Translationfrom Profeffbr Rainier.— Vindi­
cation of the Sedition-Bills.— Declining State of
Democratical Politics.— Phyfical and Moral Su­
periority of the Arijlocracy in every Nation and
Government.
A s it is natural for the mind, when taking a. view
of any multiform, or mighty mafs of matter, to in­
quire from whence, or by what means, it accumu­
lated, fo, in reflefling upon the late increafe of In­
fidelity in this country, I was led to conclude, that
the developement of the various fources of this evil
•could not be indifferent to a curious inveftigator of
men and manners. ■ '
However indifputable the Rev. Henry Kett’s
affertion may be, “ that the ideas of Infidelity*
“ which had been long floating in the world, were
“ firft embodied into a practical fyftem of wicked-
“ nefs, by Voltaire, and others,” I muft ftill beg
leave to fix its aera in England, long before the
writings of Bolingbroke' made their appearance ;
this I mutt afcribe to a period of hiftory, which
bears a nearer refembfence than any other to recent
tranfattions in France, viz. the period of the civil wars,
M 2 between
Digitized by Google
between 'Charles I. and his Parliament. Then
churches were converted into {tables, or ruins, and
their minilters driven into exile; while theirfucceifors
were divided into various fe£ts, alternately fupport-
ing the moitabfurd, impious,and extravagant, opini­
ons, whofe variety of creeds naturally tended to the
diferedit of all religious authority.
During this period, I fay, it cannot be doubted,
but as one extreme always produces another, fo
the impiety and fanaticifm of the'fixteenth century
were as properly the parent of the Infidelity that
fucceeded it, as the late maflacres and proferip-
tions in France were confequences of the rejec-
lion of the milder do&rines of the Gofpel; and
the refult of a decree, that " death is an eternal
“ ileep!”
That much Infidelity did fucceed the civil wars
of Charles I. was moft vifible in the licentious
reign of his fucceffor ; and may alfo be gathered
from the many treatifes written againlf avowed and
unqualified Atheifm before the clofe of the fif­
teenth century: even the learned Dr. Henry More
did not think the Atheifm of that time beneath
his attention. ■
This monflrous feature, in the religious hiftory of
this country, did not efcape the French w riters;
Boffuet in particular feems to treat Free-thinking,
“ as the laft refuge of minds tired out with relb
“ gious wars, and the revolutions to which they
“ gave rife.” '
Charles II. Monfteur Grofley obferves,■
“ either
“ through a fecret attachment to the Roman Ca­
“ tholic religion, or from views merely political,
“ favoured the Free-thinking turn of his fub-
tc je6fs.”
James II. -to increafe a toleration that fuited his
purpofe, fuffered all the Latudinarians, among the
Noncon-
- [ 84 ] - '
Digitized by Google
t 85 3 -
'Nonconformifts, to efcape notice ; and, in the reign
-of William III. it is obferved, that Shafteibury and
and his admirers thought very freely upon religious
fubje&s. ,
In 1696, John Toland publiihed his Chriftianity
not Myiierious j a work publicly burnt in Dublin,
as foon as it appeared ; but, flying to England, the
author and his book were left unmolefted.
Encouraged by this reception, in 1699, he pub­
liihed the Life of M ilton; in which, infinuating
his doubts concerning the authenticity of the Old
and New Teftaments, he next anfwered his nu­
merous objeftors, in another work, intituled,
Amyntor.
The ineffe£tual oppofition made to thefe writings,
by the inferior Clergy, afletnbled in convocation
in 1702— (See Life of Toland prefixed to his Works,
in 1725) only tended to increafe their popularity
and reputation.
In 1705, the Works of Lord H erb ert, of Cher-
bury, were firft publiihed in Engliih.
In 1713, Collins’s Difcourfe upon the Rife and
Growth of a Seft, called Free-thinkers, ferved to
increafe the confequence of that party ; the more
fo, from the number of replies made to it by D r.
Bentley, and other Clergymen. .
In 1716, it may be fuppofed, that Free-thinking
had made fome progrefs in the genteel or literary
world, as a very fenfible and well-written pamphlet
made its appearance in behalf of the belief of a
providence, &c. addrefled to the Wits, at Button’s
Coffee-houfe ; not Addifon, Steel, or Arbuthnot,
•it is fuppofed, but fome*of the minor geniufes. '
In the reign of George I. Socinianifm, fo near
a-kin to Deifm, was difclaipied by that monarch,
who, as head of the church, publiihed a procla­
mation, prohibiting the diffem¡nation of fuch
8 writings
Digitized by Google
w ritings as w ere favourable to the n ew opinions
concerning the T rinity. ,
T h e N ew A nnual R egifter, for 1782, obferves,
“ that the firft and moft form idable attack u p o n
“ the Chriftian religion w as m ade by L ord H er­
“ bert, of C herbury. C ollins, w as afterw ards fol­
“ low ed b y T o la n d ; a n d T in d a l’sC hritfianity, as O ld
“ as the C reation, fucceeded to M o rg an ’s M oral
“ Philofophy ; then cam e the m ore fubtle perform ­
“ ance or Chriftianity not founded on A rg u m en t.”
From Bilhop G ibfon’s Paftoral L etter, in 1729,
though principally directed againft W oolfton’s
T reatm en t o f the M iracles, and the publications o f
C hubb, w hich im m ediately fucceeded, and con­
tinued till 1749, it appears, that no refpite
w as fuffered to take place. It fhould alfo be ob-
ferved, th at, b etw een 1730 and l l 44, the firft
period being that w hich produced the fam ous con-
troverfy o f the R efurre& ion, and the celebrated
pam phlet, the T ryal o f the Witneflfes : there w ere
three editions of a D eiitical A nfw er to the fam e,
by M r. P eter A n n e t; befides tw o other pam phlets
w ritten by him , viz. the R efurreciion R econfider-
ed, and, laftly, the R efurreftion D efenders d ripped
o f all Pretences. T hefe things, from the con-
veniency o f their price, and the zeal of the party
w ho diftributed them , w ho, no doubt, confidered
them felves as a rifing Se£t, certainly h ad their
w eight in ihaking the pillars o f popular opinion,
am ong the m iddling and low er ran k s o f m en.
U n d er the reign of G eorge II. “ the philofophy
“ o f Shafteibury, becam e fo far predom inant, that,
“ for a num ber of years, no book w as m ore uni­
“ verfally adm ired, or m ore generally read, am ong
“ people of tafte and faihion, than th at noblem an’s
“ C barafteriilics.” •
T hefe
[ 86 ]
Digitized by
;Google '
T hefe w ere faeceeded by the publication o f
L ord B olingbroke’s Effays, about the year 1754,
b y his friend M a lle t; of w hom D r. Johnfon ob*
ferved, “ th at he difcharged the blunderbufs, the
“ noble author had left loaded, againii the religion
“ o f his country.” Q u een C aroline, it is alfo re­
ported, w as favourably difpofed tow ards thefe h e­
terodox opinions.
In M onfieur G rofley’s N ew O bfervations on
E ngland, in 17G5, he obferves, that C atholics,
C hurch o f E ngland m en, M ethodifts, 8rc. all m ake
a com m on caufe againft a Se£t w hich every day
gains ground ; I m ean Free-thinking.
Relative to the original Debating Societies, per­
haps the ultimate celebrity of the Robin Hood, the
firlt of thefe dangerous Schools of Eloquence, or
the impatience of fome of its members to appear
in print, was the caufe of the profecution of Peter
Annet, one of its members, and his fentence of
one year's imprifonment in Newgate, with an ex-
pofure in the pillory. -Nor had the final difperfion' .
of this Society, about 1778, fcarcely taken place,
before the Infidel fyftem was transferred, with in-
creafing attrafirions, into the clofet, by the fafhion-
qble reception of the writings of Hume, and the
daily improvements of Voltaire, D ’Alembert, and
the French philofophers in general.
T h e afiociation at the R obin H ood, it cannot b.e
d oubted, had left the feeds o f Infidelity deeply
rooted in m any o f the m em bers, w ho recollefiied
the fpeeches o f A n n e t; D r. L ucas, o f D ublin ;
and other orators of no m ean talents. A m ong
thefe' people, the profecution o f A n n et w as a fre­
q u en t fource of converfation ; w hile the kindnefs
h e experienced, from the am iable and ever m em o­
rable A rchbilhop Seeker, w as forgotten, or only
confined tq the knpw ledge o f a few.
• , D uring
' [ 8 7 ]
Digitized by Google
' D arin g A n n e t’s jinprifonm ent, in N ew gate, th at
w orthy prim ate, I have been told, fent to m ake
fome inquiry into his pecuniary affairs, and offered
fome com fortable afliftance, w hich A n n et, far
advanced in years, did not live to enjoy; and
from the follow ing paffage of the prefent B ilhop
o f L ondon’s R eyiew o f the life of A rchbifhop
Seeker, it appears, that -M r. A n n et w as n o t
the only objeft o f fuch generous treatm ent on
the part o f the prim ate. <
c W henever any p u b ­
“ lications cam e to his know ledge that w ere
“ m anifeftly calculated to corrupt good m orals,
“ or fubvert the foundations of, C hriflianity,
“ he did his utm oft to hop the circulation
" o f th em : .y e t the w retched authors them -
“ felvcs, he w as fo far from w ifhing to treat
“ w ith any undue rigour, th at he has m ore
“ than once, extended his bounty to them in
“ diftrefs.” T he tranflation o f the w hole w orks
of V oltaire, and their repeated publication in
iixpenny num bers, w as alfo the m eans o f p u t­
ting the public in poffeffion of his plauiible
dialogues betw een a Chriflian and an H oneft
M a n , a C aloyerian, & c. A n d thefe w'ere again
m ultiplied, w hen the com plete fets b e in g , fold
off, the rem ains w ere a fecond tim e diffem inated
am ong an inferior order of readers, by their
expofure upon the bookfellers flails, in com m on
w ith fecond-hand m agazines, at no m ore than
one penny a num ber.
A s under parts to the principal a£ls o f Infi­
delity, upon the grand flage of literature, it
m ight have been obferved, that, for near a cen­
tury pail, B lount’s O racles o f R eafon, Collins
on the F ree-thinkers, . & c. have lain upon ' the -
bookfellers flails, courting the infpefclion of paf-
fen g ers; and that, after the public h ad been
accom m odated,
[ »» I
Digitized by
. [ 89 ] -
' • l
accommodated, in the fame way, with the wade
paper of Morgan, Mandeville, Annet, Chubb, and
all the fecond race of Infidels, near half a century ;■
by way of a more refined entertainment,, the cir­
culating libraries were fupplied with the Eloifa
and Emilius of John James Roufleau, and other
tranllations from the French, equally fubverfive
of good morals. To the literary abilities, above
vulgar ken, we may add, thofe of Gibbon, the
hiitorian; The Apology for the Life and Writings
of David Hume, and that impertinent parade
about his domeitic virtues, fo fmartly replied to
by the late Dr. Horne; and, next to thefe, we might
reckon the cheap editions of the Philofophical
Dictionary, by Voltaire; printed at London and
York. .
. Upon the whole, from the recollection of the
remote concatenation here adduced, it may be
prefumed, that Infidelity had attained a degree
of relative antiquity, and thus impofed upon
many, who would have rejected a novelty, as
hazardous and queftionable.
But, after all, where Infidelity has failed of com­
plete fuccefs, many upon whom it has operated
have been, at leaft, brought under Socinianifm,
the Frozen Zone of religion, even if it can deferve
the name; for, before Dr. Prieitley had attained to
his pad celebrity as a divine, this opinion undoubted­
ly had its effeCts in deadening the human heart. But,
when his. improvements upon it, were dignified
with the name of philofophy, the warm tide of
intellectual life immediately ceafed to flow. The
character of a materialiß was fixed, and all the
benignant fouyces of genuine Chriilianity, which
might have been expeCted in this quarter, were
hermetically fealed.
. . • • N It
Digitized by Google
It was this great chemift who reduced all the
ideas of the grand enemy of the human race to a
mere “ perfonification of human paffions from
whence, and fimilar refinements in what was called
the “ corruptions o f Chrijtianity, ” a difcuffion of
queftions, in the debating focieties, dn a Sunday
evening, previous to 1781, fubverfive of all the
fundamentals of our religion, operated as a fuffi-
cient juitification of the Sunday Reformation-Bill,
pailed in that year, which, by prohibiting the
taking of money at the doors, put a temporary
flop to the increafe of Infidelity in the lower orders.
But this hydra had too many heads to be crufhed
at once; |or, in 1786, it was remarked by A rch­
deacon Palcy in his Moral Philofophy,. “ That Infi­
“ delity is now ferved up in every fhape that is
“ likely to allure, furprize, or beguile, the imagi-
“ nation, in a ' fable, a tale, a novel, or a, poem,
“ in intcrfperfed or broken hints, remote and ob­
lique furmifes, in books of travels, of philofo-
“ phy, of natural hiftory, in a word, in any form
“ rather than that of a profefled and regular dif-
“ quifition.” •
As to focieties which fubfifted in the interval'
which I have gone over, that in Margaret-ftreet,
Oxford-road, was theuext, both in the order of time
and in its publicity, to that of the Robin Hood.
But neither the gentleman, then known by the
appellation of the Priejl of Nature, and who
delivered Deiftical leftures in his chapel, in
1775-6, nor his ’congregation, iliould, by any
means, be ranked with thofe peftiferous clubbifts
of late date; although it unfortunarely happened
that his renew;al of a dangerous profeilion of falfe
philofophy continued the concatenation of Infide­
lity nearer to the tera of the French Revolution, *
wlrich,
[ 90 ]
Digitized by Google
1 9J ] ■
which, afterwards' co-operating with thofe princi­
ples, increased the number of Englilh Infidels
beyond all precedent. . *
. -
From the period when the above-mentioned
.lectures, in Margaret-dreet, had clofed, till the
publication of the Age of Reafon ; Deifm, and the
heterodox opinions of the times, feemed' to have
taken up their lad refuge in a pretty numerous
circle, near Hoxton, among a kind of Infidel M y/-
tics, known to dangers, from the circumftance of
broaching their fentiments in fome writings and
public places, by the appellation of Ancient Deijts,
..as well as from the profellion of their belief in the
eternity of the univerfe, &c. „This place, being
attended by fome perfons above the common line
.-of life, finally operated as a lAnd of vortex, which
naturally attracted the reftlefs and diifatisfied of
every fe£t within its circle. Here human learning
was declaimed againd, as one of-the greatell ene­
mies'to human happinefs or the improvement of
■the intellect,, and dreams, vifions, and immediate
revelations, were recommended a s'a fubftitute !
The faculty of foretelling future events was alfo
infilled upon; the difeernment of fpirits, by the
phvfiognomy, _the voice, the gait, &c. together
with the pofiibility of converting with departed
fouls. In fact, thofe pretences were carrried lb far,
that any vifitor, not in the habit of hearing fuper-
natural voices, or not informed of the common
„occurrences of the day, by the minidration of
Angels, would have been treated as a novice and
a difciple of the lowed form. .
. It was by -no means unnatural, that this af-
femblage diould be made up of Alchymids, Adro-
logers,.Calculators, Mydics, Magnetizers, Pro­
phets, and Projectors, of every clafs.. . In fact,
this community feemed “ .to embrace all the ec­
, 1 N 2 “ dentric
Digitized by Google
. t 52 I ,
“ centric modes, fe&aries, vifionaries, fanatics,
“ enthufiafls, rationalifts, and every other name,
“ into which affectation, whim, folly, or caprice,'
“ divide the populace.
Several of the members of this fociety have dif-
tinguiihed themfèlves, in their habits and manners,"
truly eccentric; but, as a defcription of them
would be too long for the prefent purpofe, I (hall
only obferve, that, there was fo little of real religion
in their compofition, that it almoft immediately
yielded to the ftronger impulfe of the French
Devolution, and terminated in the general con-
verfion of the members into politicians and in­
quirers after news.
What has occurred among fucceeding affoci-
ations, fince the period laft mentioned, has been
fufficiently noticed in the former part of this
work.
Relative to Profeffor Robifon’s Hiilory of a
Cpnfpiracy, &c. I fhall now obferve, that, after
the minute details, given by him and the Abbé
Barruel, of the objeCt of the French and Ger­
man affiliations, no perfons, unlefs they are totally
abforbed in prejudice, can any longer affeéï to
look upon the relations of thefe authors, as
being raked together, merely to ferve a party-
purpofe.
Without the evidence which they have adduced,
it certainly would demand fome ftretch of credulity,
to admit that Deifts and Atheifts have affociated,
near half a century, for the foie purpofe, as Voltaire
expreffes it, to “ Ecrazer I’lnfame,” viz. Cruffi the
Wretch, Chrift ! However, the only difference be­
tween the Engliih and French Infidels, is, in thé
term of their exiftence ; the latter had arrived at
maturity, while the former, being anticipated in
their view, a falutary check was oppofed to their
progrefs,
progrefs, before they were capable of feeling their
ltrength. .
Every good member of fociety, now enjoying
the benefit of a ftate of internal tranquillity, or com­
paring it with the itorms and convulfions of a neigh­
bouring kingdom, will, next to Providence, blefs the
means of his prefervation j and, penetrated by the
advantages he enjoys, they will at leaft infpire him '
with a tacit juftification of meafures, at firft, perhaps,
deemed harfh. I mean, thofe meafures which have
been adopted by a vigilant government, and which
have, undeniably, prevented the diforder and con-
fufion which muft have otherwife enfued.
The blind tools of a party, and (hallow po­
liticians, may continue declaiming againft what
they deem unneceffary violations of the forms of
the conftitution, as if the executive could at all
time be ufeful without a diferetionary and a dif-
penfing power.
It'is to very little purpofe, that fome people1
argue, that, the modern democratic party has
really or apparently received the fan&ion, of fome
refpeftable names in this country, both in and out
of the fenate. But if any fuch perfons htlve
flattered themfelves, that a Parliamentary Reform
was the real object, and not merely the Jlalking-
horfe of the focieties, their want of information
is really to be pitied. They muft have known
very little of the hatred borne to all the privileges
of birth or acquirements, or of the frenzy, which
fometimes raged in the brains of their humble
friends in the city, and eaftern fuburbs; or how
impatient they were of the tardy proceedings in
St. Stephen’s Chapel; the fafety and continuance
of which was principally owing to an augmenta­
tion of the affociated Volunteer-Corps. Of courfe
. they muft be ignorant of the obligations they are
• ‘ - under
. [ 9
3 ]
Digitized by Google
n
j
under to tliofe who direded this military force,
and adually prevented the madnefs of democracy'
from a phaeton-like aftumption of the reins of go­
vernment ; from whence the whole iiland might
have been kindled into a combuflion more de-
ftrudive than the infurredion of Jack Cade, or any
of the diforders of his fucceflors.. I will even
hazard the fuppoiition, no Volunteer-Afibciations
being formed, that republican frenzy had pro­
ceeded fo far as to corrupt the Guards, and Jeize
or majfacre the whole Houfe of Commons; or
as many of them as they found fitting; could
thefe madmen fuppofe any men, or fet of men,
would have accepted of the government at_ their
hands, reeking with the blood of the Senate ?
I truft there are none, who bear the name of Bri­
tons, fo loft to the dignity of the national cha-
rader, or of a call: fo fanguinary or degraded.
Of courfe, hating both the treafon and the traitors,
the ihocking deed would have reverted, with ten­
fold- vengeance and remorfe, upon the heads of
the perpetrators; while its refults mull have juf-
ttijaed the moll: affliding, and, perhaps, unheard-
of recrimination. I intimated, that the fafety of
the fittings ,of the.Houfe of Commons was owing
to the formation of the Volunteer-Corps, while
democracy raged in this metropolis. I repeat i t :
for, notwithftanding not more than one perfon,
as far as I recoiled:, has been convided of fe-
ducing the foldiery from their allegiance, fuch at­
tempts, among the Clubbifts, were not cafual, but
part of a fyftem conftantly aded upon. To mingle
with,, and to treat, the foldiery was as much a
part of the duty, while the Clubs exi-fted, as it
was to meet at the divifion-rooms; and reports
of progrefs, in this undertaking-, were conftantly
made and applauded.
8 I may -
- [ 9
4
Digitized by ;nogle
r S
3 i *
I may neither have the abilities to pronounce,
nor the confequence to fubftantiate, a panegyric
upon eminent characters ; but as the effefts of
meafures are the beft comment upon the abilities
of the men who produced them, let us farther
fuppofe,-for argument fake, that, after the recent
adoption of French revolutionary principles in this'
country, the government had delayed the puniih-
ment or prevention of any overt-aft, till matters’ •
had proceeded as far as they were; carried in
1780! Will any of their accufers, then, take'
upon them to fay where the confequences would
have ended? I will now hazard a contrail: the
popular tumult .of 1780, without any -national'
views, and without any leaders to direct its move­
ments, eventually colt the lives of two hundred
perfons ; while the more recent defperate fcheme,
to overturn all the conflitutcd authorities of thisi
kingdom, has been baffled, by the mere imprifon-'
ment of lefs than half that number, many of whom
were afterwards liberated. ' "
That government in difperfmg thefe focieties,
and hindering their re-organization, 'have acted
upon the principle, that “ prevention is better
than puniihment,” I believe might be juftified by
fome who have fmarted moil ieverely for their
attachment to republicanism The diet, and not the
imprifonrnent, in the Iloufe in Cold-Bath-Fields,
being their principal complaint. But even this
was not permanent; it being now fome months
fince the few confined for feditious practices have .
been put upon the allowance of ilate-prifoners,
while their wives and families, in order that the
innocent might not fhare the puniihment of the
guilty, have had an allowance from government ■
of half-a-guinea, and fifteen (hillings, per week.
■ • ■ * But ’
Digitized by Google
But it Is not impoffible to add to the teftimonies
broiight by Profeflor Robifon, as to the real views
of the felf-named philofophers: the following paf-
fage in the late Lord Orford’s Letters, written
in 1^765, and which could not be "brought forward
to- promote the views of a party, may now fervo
our purpofe with double effeCt:
“ The Dauphin, fays he, will probably hold
*
* out very few days. His death, that is, thp
near profpeCt of it, fills the philofophers with
“ the greateft joy, as it was feared he would en­
“ deavour the reftoration of the Jefuits. You will
“ think the feritiments of the philofophers very odd
“ ftate-news; but, do you know who the philofo-
‘c phers are, or what the term means, here ? in the
“ firft place, it comprehends almoft every body;
“ and, in the next, men, who, avowing war againit
“ Popery, aim, many of them, at a fnbverfion o f
“ all religion; andjlill many more at the dejiruc-
“ lion of regal power. How do you know this ?
you will fay; you, who have been but fix weeks in
“ France^ three of which you have been confined
" to your chamber. True : but in the firft period
“ I went every where, and heard nothing elfe;
“ in the latter, I have been extremely vifited, and
*c have had long and explicit converfations with
“ many who-think as I tell you, and with a few
“ of the other fide who are no lefs perfuaded that
tf there are fuch intentions. In particular, I had
“ two officers here the other night, neither of them
*
* very young, whom I had difficulty to keep from
“ a ferious quarrel, and who, in the heat of the
*
* difpute, informed me of much more than I could.
“ have learned with great pains.” Vol. V. p. 123.
In addition to the more recondite collection of
facts, which the Profeffor has feleCted from the
German language, I ihalljneXt notice a Memorial, ,
. * " written
' [ 96 ]
Digitized by aoogle
in 1733, upon Secret Affemblies: Vide, Des Hem
Baron Von Holberg’s ubrige Kleine Schriften, Co­
penhagen printed, 1755. In this work, fays
Baron Holberg, “ I deemed it neceffary to pub­
" lifb my Philofophical Confiderations ypon the
“ fubjefit of Secret Societies, becaufe it is no­
“ torious, that, at this period, feveral of them exift
“ in various parts of Germany, the propagation
“ of whofe extravagant opinions feem calculated
“ to excite defpair rather than devotion.”
But whatever might have been the precife bb-
ject of thefe Secret Affemblies, the ftriking iimi-
larity, which the Baron traces out between the
caufes that led to the death of Charles I. of
England, and thole we have witneffed preceding
the late French Revolution; I fay, whatever the
views of the former might have been, he makes
it appear, that, the proceedings of the Englilh
regicides in that reign, like the recent commotions
in France, caufed fome alarm, and the adoption of"
meafures of precaution in fome of the neighbouring
ftates. We fee, fays Baron Holberg,. (in his Con- ,
iiderations before-mentioned) from an Ordinance,
publiihed, Wintermonar, December 24, 1655, that
our gracious Sovereign, Frederic III. ftitied the
Secret Affemblies, of that period, in their birth j
not fo much on account of the falfe doftrines
which they taught, but for fear of the bad confe-
quences ufually refulting from fuch private meet­
ings ; the effects of which, we had learned by ex- '
perience. And farther, that what was, at
only the bujinefs of the Clergy, or the Police, at
length required the affijtance of the Military.—
The grand Rebellion of England, the Baron goes
on to fay, has fupplied us with proofs of the
effects of thefe divifions. That tragedy, which
nas occalioned fo much prejudice to Religion and
O the
. . [ 97 ]
Digitized by c.ooQle
’ £ Ö8 ]
the State, had thè fam e k in d of beginning, viz.
Secret Afl'emblies, Attacks upon Public Worjhip,
Pi•ophecies, The expectation of the Millenium, An
equal divijion of Property, or the poffcffion of all
things in common. Gleicheit unter Menfchen zu
ficflen, viz. the Infiitution of Equality among
Mankind and the like!!! H is D aniih M ajefty,
therefore, thinking it necelfary to ufe a tim ely
preventative o f the evil of Secret Societies, iifued
the follow ing O rdinance againft th em :
“ W ir F riedrick der D ritte, & c. thun hiem it
<
c ku n d und zu w iden': D a unfere V orfahren fo-
“ w ohl, als w ir, es beftandig unfere vornehm fte
“ Sorge haben feyn laden, dafs das heilige u n d
“ w ahre W ort G ottes rein und lauter erhalten
“ und bew ahret w erde, fo haben w ir doch e r­
“ fahren, w ie der M eifter der den W eizen m it
“ dem U n k rau t zu unterdrücken und zu w erd er­
" ben fuchet, das heilige P red ig tam p t und M i*
“ nifterium fn V erachtung zu bringen fuchet, in*
“ fonderheit dadurch, dafs er durch heim liche u n d
“ fchadliche Z ufam m enkunfte, die fo es nicht bef­
“ fer verliehen, von unferer K irche, und dem
“ gebräuchlichen G ottefdienft ab zu leiten ver-
“ fuchet. D aher is unfer ernftlicher While u n d
" Befehl, an alle hohe und niedrige O b rig k eit,
“ dafs li d arauf A ch t haben, fo, w ie fie es vor
“ uns zu verantw orten gedenken, 8cc.”
T o the follow ing eifedl :
'• “ W e, F rederick I II . &cc. hereby declare, and
<
e m ake know n : fince it has been the corillant care
“ o f our predecelfors, as w ell as ourfelves, to re­
*
* tain and preferve the true and facred W^ord o f
H G od in its purity ; and as w e have learned,
ft th at certain perfons are' endeavouring to cor­
“ rupt and to tread dow n the w heat w ith the tares,
.and to. bring the M iniitry and the facred offices
Digitized by Google
*•' o f religion into contem pt, efpecially by the m eans
“ o f fecret and fcandalous m eetings, b y -w h ich
“ they endeavour to lead the ignorant and un­
“ w ary from the eftablifhed w onhip and practice
“ o f our churches: it is, therefore, our abfolute
“ W ill and C om m and, that all our M agistrates pay
“ the d rifted attention to thefe Secret Afiemblies*
“ as they w ill otherw ife be refponfible to us for
“ their n eg left, & c.”
T h a t no doubt m ight rem ain, whethe.r any o f
th e Secret Societies, hinted at by the Baron, w ere
political, it is fufficient to*indicate, that, w ithin a
very few years after, he thought them a proper
fu b jeft for Satire in his C om edy, intituled, Dev
Politiche Kangiefer, or, the Political Pewterer } of
w hich, from G ottfched’s G erm an T h eatre, I at­
tem p ted an Engiifh tranilation, for private am ufe-
jnent, fome tim e ilnce. G ottfqhed, it ihould be
obferved, caufed it to be tranllatcd from the
D aniih, betw een 1746 and 1750, under the title
above-m entioned; b u t, from fome fimilarity of the
piece, w ith our U pholfterer, I chofe to give it the
title o f t h e D e m o c r a t c u r e d , or, theUpholjkrer
o f Dantzick. T he Baron defcribes the C lub, o f
w hich the H ero is a leading m em ber, w ith lingular
hum our and propriety, efpecially w hen contrade.d
w ith the view s and capacities of fom e, w ho have
borne the nam e of R eform ing Societies, in this
m etropolis. H e alfo plies him w ith fuch a fuccef-
fion of em barraffm ents, in confequence o f his being
im pofed upon, w ith the belief that, he is chofen a
B urgom after, that he is only faved from dedroving
him felf b y an explanation m ade to him by a. M r.
Worthy, to w hom , till then, he h ad refufed. to '
give his confent to m arry his daughter, in con­
fequence of his being no politician! in tl)e de­
nouement of th e piece, the author m akes him
. O 2 order
• : • C 99 ]
Digitized by Google
order the burning of all his political p a m p h le ts :
and he leaves the ftage, after raoft ap p o lltely o b -
ferving, “ I t is true, one m ay eafily c o n d e m n a
“ governm ent in theory, w ithout having any i d e a
“ o f the p rafh cal part. So, to have a g e n e r a l
“ notion of a Sea-chart, and to underftand th e a r t
“ of navigation, are tw o things effentially d iffe re n t.
“ In reading political trafts, it is alfo eafy to o b ­
“ tain a facility in fpeaking upon a v a riety o f
“ fu b je fts; b u t m uch m ore than this, is n e c e ffa ry
“ to underftand the conftitution o f a c o u n try .
“ From w hat has befallen m e to-day, every p er^
“ ion, of the fame rank in fociety, m ay d e riv e
i£‘an exem plary conviftion, th at a m an, w h o h a s
“ no other capacity than that of cenfuring h is
<e fuperiors and governors, m ult be totally u n fit
“ to adm inifter in their places. For an illite ra te
te M echanic, to take upon him the office o f a
<e Statefm an, is juft the fam e as if the la tte r
“ ihould aflume the profeflion of the form er w ith '
*c out any previous inftruftion.”
T h u s far, as to the fim ilarity of caufes an d
effefts, and the general opinion o f the friends
o f good governm ent, relative to Secret Societies,
in E ngland, France, and G erm any. A s to th e
variety o f the m eans, adopted in thofe countries,
for prom oting their purpofes, and the few m ade
life o f by the E ngliih Societies, the latter w as
probably for w ant o f tim e ; efpecially, if the
Opinion,- “ T h a t the E ngliih generally im prove
upon the difcoveries m ade by the F ren ch ,” cap
apply m this particular.
. Profeflbr R obifon has m od copioufly difplayed
th e addrefs o f the F rench and G erm an Illum inati,
in qualifying their revolutionary poifon to all ftates
a n d conditions,of m e n ; and has intim ated, more
than once, th at it was a principal object with
' ' them,
[ 100 ]
Digitized by Google
[ 101 3
them , to render tjie, prefent ftate o f fociety, odious,
by a fi&itious difplay of the indolent pleafures o f
the patriarchal life. I t w as their defign, as he ex-
preffes it, in page 161, o f his Proofs o f a C on­
spiracy, to m ake the head o f every fam ily, w hat
A braham w as, their Patriarch, Prielr, and unlettered
L ord ; and R eafon, the Code of L aw s to all m an­
k in d ., A nd, as an additional inftance of this dif-
pofition, and the nefarious profanation of talents
m ade ufe o f to prom ote it, m y readers may take
th e following tranilation from the French, felefited
from an Im itation of the Pfalm s of D avid, in
poetic profe, and like them in the E ngliih, and
. fome other R ubrics, infiduoufly adapted to each
d£y of the m onth : ,
“ G od of my Fathers ! w hen ihall the patriarchal
“ ages revifit the earth ?
“ T h en w ere m en w orthy o f thy prefence,
“ and thou didlt deign to vifit them w ith thy
" bounty.
“ T h en the ruftic altars, upon the facred m oun-
“ tains, w ere neither loaded w ith gold, nor itained
“ w ith blood.
“ T h en thy m inifters, clothed in linen and
“ crow ned w ith flow ers, w ere n o t elo q u en t;
“ b u t their hearts w ere as pure and as Ample as
ft their offerings.
•. “ T h en the father o f the family, king o f his
“ houfehold, had no other fceptre b u t his paf-
“ toral ftaff. • '
“ W ithout fw ord or balance, he adm iniftered
“ juftice at the foot of an O ak , or before the
“ door o f his C ottage.
“ Plain fenfe and an upright m ind w ere his-
“ code of law s.
“ T h en Sincerity w atched at the doors, and,
" Security w as an attendant at the bed.
“ T h e
Digitized by Google
“ T h e founds of th e loeks and keys o f S uf-
“ picion w ere not heard, in the evening o r th e
“ m orning. - ■
“ T h en , O h ! m y G od, m an added n o th in g
“ to thy gifts, but received them as they c a m e
“ from thy h a n d :
“ Blood never ftained his lips, neither w a s h e
“ preferved by the deftruftion of ufeful and p e a c e ­
“ able anim als.
“ T h en w as the m arriage-union, form ed in th e
“ face of H eav en , w ithout a w itnefs, and w ith -
“ out a pried.
• “ T h en , in the perfon of his father, the fon faw
“ his G od, clothed in the hum an form.
“ T h en , O h 1 G od o f my fathers, thy th u n d e r
“ flept at thy feet, and thy right hand w as in-
“
■ ceflantly held forth to blefs thy children. ■
“ T h en thou didft not repent of thy w o rk j
“ b u t the m inds o f m en w ere like a fpotlefs
i‘ m irror, in w hich thou w aft pleafed to m ultiply
“ thine im age.
“ I t is tim e, O h ! F ord, that thou ihouldft: re­
“ ftore thofe days upon the earth ; that ferene and
“ beautiful period, w hich ihould be had in ever-
lafting rem em berance.” -
U pon the abufe o f French and G erm an litera­
tu re, I ihall dw ell iro longer. T o this there are
m any brilliant exceptions, particularly, a pam phlet,
publiihed in 1794, entitled, Blick auf die Frau*
zojiche Revolution— Von einem Freunde des Volkes
und der Regieriingen.” A s far as this untranflated
" V iew of the French R evolution, by a friend to
m ankind and governm ents,” exhibits the origin of
•that inexhauftable event, in caufes, never likely
to occur in E ngland, I Ihall quote a few paifages,
after prem iiing, as the m oil oftenfible p a rt of my
apology for fo doing, th at no farther know ledge
' of
[ 102 ]
Digitizeci by Google
o f the author may be neceffary, than w hat is to
be collefted from the follow ing note at the bottom
o f page 112. A lluding to the French E m igrants,
k is there faid: * -
“ Since there are nobles o f the prefent day w ho
“ peffuade them felves, that none b u t perfons of
“ equal rank have a right to decide upon points of
“ honour, w e w ith to rem ind them , th at our author
“ is no lcfs know n by his fword than his pen ; that
“ he is no ilranger in the C abinet or the field; and
ct that, in refpeCt to birth, he m ight challenge the
“ rnoft ancient and illuftrious houfes.”
“ I t w ould, favs this noble author, be a glorious
“ exam ple to the w orld, ihould a great nation
aw aken infiantaneoufly, after m any ages of fervl-
“ tu d ean d indifference, and,w ith true m agnanim ity,
“ trace fociety up to its original fource, found its
“ rights upon the principles of eternat juftice, and,
“ at the fame tim e, poffefs fufiicient wifdom to keep
“ them u nder the dom inion o f reafon, confining
“ even liberty itfelf w ithin inviolable lim its.
“ B ut w ho is capable o f cem enting an union
“ betw een extrem es fo diftant from each other, as
“ inflexible prudence and violent ertthufiafm ? It
(C is highly probable, that a nation, giving itfelf
tc u p to the guidance o f philofophers, w ould be
“ w anting in that energy, w hich alone is capable
“ of overturning the thrones of defpotifm and pre-
“ ju d ic e . T his energy, is the foie inheritance of
the paffions. O n the contrary, if this nation
“ ihould confift o f m en, anim ated w ith the fpirit
“ o f liberty, m en, w ho had encountered and fuper-
“ feded every difficulty,-can it be fuppofed, that,
' <
* w hile fluihed w ith fuccefs, they will liften and
“ im plicitly adhere to t h e .difpaffionate voice of
** th at reafon, w hich places true liberty under the
dom inion o f the law s, and fixes the w elfare of
“ civilized
- [ 103 ) •
Digitized by Google
“ civilized fociety, in almofi: an intire facrifice o f
“ the natural independence of m an ?
“ T h e fame genius w hich plans a re v o lu tio n
“ fliould conduct its p rogrefs; the fame h a n d
“ that breaks the fetters of a nation ihould b e
“ fufficiently pow erful to reftrain its paflions ; b u t
“ the revolutions o f ftates, how ever fagacioufly
“ planned, are fubje£t to fo m any accidents, a n d
“ attended w ith fo m uch am bition, and p riv a te
“ intereft, that they frequently take a bias, in d i­
“ reel oppofition to the views of the firft m o v er.
“ T his w as em inently the cafe w ith the F re n c h
“ R evolution, the origin of w hich, w e mull: fee k
“ not in its vifible epoch, b u t look b ack to tim e s
“ far rem ote.” '
I (hall w ave this author’s unqualified inve£lives
againit the French E m igrant N oblefle, as th e
caufe of m olt of the calam ities of their c o u n try ;
to introduce his energetic defeription of the fall o f
R obefpierre.
“ A t the m om ent this pam phlet is going to prefs,
“ R obefpierre, is overthrow n by a clap o f th u n d e r;
“ his guilty blood flows upon the fpot w here th a t
“ of the benevolent Louis, M arie A ntoinette, and
“ feveral others, w as ihed. D ivine juftice feem s
“ to have referved him for this fpecial reta lia tio n ;
“ this alone purfued him , and m en w ere m erely
“ paffive in the execution o f its fentence. H u ­
“ m anly fpeaking, the condem nation o f R obef-
“ pierre w as by no m eans le g a l; even his m urder­
" ers w ere partakers in his guilt, though they
“ accufed him of original, unatonable, and even
“ im probable crim es. In fa£t, his death feem ed
“ to have been dem anded by the how ling of the
“ Furies, and m erely a confequence of the appli-
“ cation of his ow n principles, and that denial of
“ refponfibility, w hich led to the execution o f the
, ‘ 8 “ K ing.
[ 104 ]
Digitized by ^ i O O ^ l C
[ 105 ]
f c -King. It was the Firit of September, turned
againit himfelf; thofe cannibal taffies which
te muft ftill be repeated, to clear the earth of thofe
“ monfters, to whom they have been familiar.”
This author, a ftrenuous advocate for the confti-
tu tio n of 1791, as a proof of the futility of all
-democratic revolutions, is forced, unintentionally,
to pay a compliment to the Britifh Conititution,
through his panegyrics upon that which approxi­
m ates towards it, the neareft of any: and he, at
th e fame time, demonftrates the vanity of every
attem pt to deviate from that line, to which, even
th e French nation, is neceffarily returning. If the
politics of 1791, fays he, ihould ever obtain a
predominance, after a thoufand factions have had
their day, they will infallibly convince the French,
that their true happinefs, is equally as diftant from
a licentious liberty, as from an authority without
bounds or limits.
W hile fome writers feem inclined to carry their
prejudices againit German literature too far, it is
but juft to obferve, that the reign of the late Em­
peror Jofeph feemed to infpire fome of the authors
of that period with true Englifh notions of govern-
fnerrt. Far from the degrading fentiments of the
Illuminati, their opinions add a dignity to human
nature; and, as genuine liberty is never fpoken of
in any part of the known world without fome re­
ference to England, or Eiigljhmen, fome obferva-
tions from a fmall German tract, publiihed at
Vienna in 1781, intituled, The Creed of a Citizen
of the Nineteenth Century, as they may pleafe, as
well as flatter, our vanity, cannot be difagreeable.
“ I believe, fays the anonymous author, that
“ the maxim, that we are under no obligation- to
“ a bad government, and that one may violently
P deprive
Digitized by
u deprive a tyrant of life, is fcandalous, falfe, and
*
* blafphemous.
" I believe that the laws cannot be b etter ex­
“ prefled than through the will of an upright and
ff virtuous Regent.
“ I believe that unlimited liberty is a chim era.”
“ I believe, that if Rome had not deftroyed Car­
thage, Carthage would have deftroyed R om e. See
“ an illuftration of this in England and her ene­
*
* mies. If England does not lofe her fupcriority
“ at fea, it is evident, that with refpeft to com­
*
* merce, all other powers muß become her vajjals.
u I believe the courage of an Englifhman never
“ forfakes him. Expofed to the utmoft danger, he
“ will improve the fituation. If the country muft
“ be ruined, he will fay, rather to-day than to­
w morrow.
“ I believe the abilities of any perfon in Geome-
<
c try, may be equalled by another 5 the folution
“ of problems being founded in certain data. But .
“ that in politics, there are no felf evident proofs,
“ which neceifarily lead to other truths : all depends
“ upon genius. '
“ I believe there are cafes when it is neceffarv
“ for a Prince to fet himfelf above the law s; to alter,
“ and even infringe them. But if he is prudent,
u he will neither tear, nor obliterate the picture,
“ but only give it a new face.”
It is to be lamented that feveral authors in Ger­
many, enjoying the charafter of fine writers, have,
with Wieland, enlifted under the banners of Infi­
delity. Religion, however, is not left without a
witnefs in the genius of that country. The reader
of tafte will excufe my attempt in tranflating the
following beautiful fpecimen of the true fublime,
from a German verfion of Pfalin xix. by Profeflbr
, Render.
C 106 ]
Digitized by Google
TH E heav’nly concave’s everlaftihg frame,
The azure canopy where meteors flame,
The felf-pois’d earth beneath, and thefe accord
To join in owning their eternal Lord.
Day fpeaks his praife, in heaven's all-chearing light,
Repeated by a thoufand tongues at night;
All nations learn the mighty theme to ting r
All look with rapture to the day’s bright King.
His prefence, (hilling thro’ th’ etherial round,
Draws the dark forelt from the earth profound ;
The dew-fraught clouds, he from th’ ocean fills,
Diflill’d anew, or ftream’d adown the hills.
A verdant robe, he for the earth prepares,
Bedeck’d with flower’s, whofe various tiflue bears
Each hue, that on his cloud-wrought cincture glows,
The azure violet, or crimlon rofe. ,
His purple Throne he in the Eafl difplays;
His vaft domain unwearied he furveys;
Unnumber’d realms are in his circuit blefs’d ;
His courfe triumphant, ends in glorious reft.
From his exhauftlefs fea of lambent light, '
He richly fills the iilver orb of night;
The morning ftar, and brother choir advance,
And, wreath’d with rays, perform their myltic dance.
Thro’ boundlefs fpace, thus Sun and Stars proclaim
Th’ Almighty hand, that form’d tins wond’rous frame ;
And, for hi,s praife their rapid wheels employ’d,
For ever rolling thro’ the mighty void.
I ihall now leave the merits and defers of our
continental neighbours, to {hew by .what means we
have avoided the rocks, upon which others have?
fplit. With refpeft to the Democratical Faction,
much indeed is owing to the vigilance of Minifters
in faving the country from
“ Oratores novi,Jlulti, adolefccntuli."
Still, other caufes co-operating, feem to have fixed
the fafety of this country, from the attacks of its
domeftic enemies, upon an immoveable bafis; and
_ P 2 have
[ 107 ] .
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
have thus contributed to the gradual, b u t c e rta in
extinction of that hot fpirit, w hich has c a u fe d fo
m uch alarm to the lovers of good order a n d th a t
fubordination, by w hich, it can only be fu p p o rte d .
In the firlt place,every degree of confidence w h ic h
the L ondon C orrefponding Society repofed in the
nobility and others, w ho, for a tim e, gave in to th e
idea of univerfal fuffrage, and annual, or trie n n ia l,
parliam ents, has been rapidly declining e v e r iin ce
th eir Affociation refufed to com e into the m e a fu re s
of the W hig C l u b t h e propofal of w hich, b y th e
latter, engendered that diflike w hich a fte rw a rd s
increafed in proportion as the R eform ing S o c ietie s
im bibed the. doCtrines of civil and moral e q u a lity .
Secondly, divifions and m utual diftruft a m o n g
m em bers, occafioned by the puniihm ent o f fom e
o f the num ber, the dread of the fame fate, a n d th e
great lofs of tim e requifite for ferving th e various
offices. B ut another circum ftance w hich c o n tri­
b u ted to haften the crifis o f the diffolution o f this
body, w as, the introduction of the United Men into
the m etropolis, in 1797 and 1798 ; or ra th e r the
toleration of fuch perfons in the L ondon C o rre­
fponding Society, as jo in t m em bers of both ! I fay
the toleration, becaufe the know n violence o f the
form er, caufed them to be eyed w ith fo m u ch fuf-
picion, that one divifion of the L ondon C orre­
fponding Society, w as denied admiffion at the houfe
o f a m em ber, only for w riting a letter to one o f the
United Societies-.
T h e grand arcana of this new eiiabliihm ent w as
.alw ays acknow ledged to the initiated, “ as to -form
“ a diverfion in favour of the enem y, in cafe of a
“ landing.” M any perfons alfo.undertook to learn
the F rench language, no doubt, w ith a view of
facilitating a com m unication.
That
[ 103 ]
Digitized by Google
That thè United Men ihould be obnoxious to
nurnbers of the London Gorrefponding Society may
not be eafdy credited, by ftrangers ; the faft, how­
ever, which I have ftated, mult be admitted ; for,
if both of thefe affociations were hideous or unfia­
tural, itili, a diffimilarity, might exift between them ;
fuch as is hinted in a German Hiftory of Appari­
tions, one of whom is defcribed as being fo exceed­
ingly terrific, as to affright other fpeftres !
, Notwithftanding, as the procuring and learning
the ufe of arms were the ground work of the afl'o-
ciation of the United Men, numbers of the London
Correfponding Society, who did not reliih thefe da­
ring meafures, very prudently withdrew from both
aflfoeiations., The government’s knowledge of thefe
feveral circumftances, is, in my opinion, a fufficient
vindication of the neceffity of the Bills againft Se­
dition, and the Sufpenlion of the Habeas Corpus
Aft.
But farther, no accurate obferver can poffibly be
ignorant, how much the herding principle has been
checked by an unprecedented price of provifions ;
I fpeak enly of the lower dalles : the beer-houfes
which, previous to the late rife of the neceffaries of
life, ufed, in working neighbourhoods, to be filled
three evenings out of the fix, have been gradually
deferted. The paifengers, who, in the piping times
of peace, were frequently obftrufted, can now pafs,
unmolefted by ballad fingers, and drunken fquab-
bles in the ftyeets, while the number of night
charges at the watch-houfes have decreafed in pro- "
portion : and this accidental alteration of circum­
ftances, by compelling mechanics and others to
ihare their porter at home with their families, has
prevented many of them from being introduced to
the Infidel or Political Societies, at the public
houfes. As for the feceding and repentant club­
’ • bills;
. ■ [ 109 ] '
Digitized by Google
bifts, many of them are not a little aftonifhed a t
their credulity, in being led away by men, only in ­
tent upon the difplay of their oratoij, or filling their
pockets at the expence of the public opinion. N or
will it foon be forgotten, that fome perfons of opu­
lence, who. had been clamorous for democratic
diftinCtion, were afterwards implicated in charges
of monopoly and oppreflion ; and, that during th e
late exceflive •dearth of provifions, the principal
part of the public charity did not flow from men,
before in the habit of haranguing the populace
upon their real grievances, but from others, generally
in oppofition to fuch principles and proceedings I
Another final mean of damping the revolutionary
fpirit, in the Societies I have been fpeaking of, was
the recollection, that in their corporate economy,
viz. in the petty adminiftratiOn of their affairs,
though there were no millions unaccounted for,
yet there were many and repeated defaulters, and
dilapidations of a leffer amount, clearly demonftra-
ting that Citizens and Minijlers in miniature, form­
ing the Executive Committee, or aCting as Secre­
taries, have been the firft to fecure their ozvn in-
terejis. And farther, when called to account for
this un-citizen like behaviour, have even denied the
right of refponfibility, and withheld or deftroyed
the documents which might have been brought
againft them I ■
But, notwithftanding thefe leffons, a delirium
feems to have attached to, and never to have left
the divided remains of Engliih Democracy, till it
received the ihock of Bonaparte’s conftitution 1
Otherwife, the voice of Reafon, added to the for­
mer changes in the French government, muft have
been heard ; or even thofe revolutions would have
filently deftroyed all the ideal and imitative frames,
which the Conftitution-builders had been laying
[ 1 1 0 ]
Digitized by Google *'
for years on this fide of the water, and have forced .
them back upon their own, though by a negative
preference.
But in fpite of the difcouraging fpecimens exhi­
bited to the London Correfponding Society and their
adherents, viz. by their Executive Committee, and
other mimic minifters; while they flattered them-
felves that the foundations of Republicanifm flood
fure in France, a cure was always expended in the
old revolutionary mode of changing men. It was
to little purpofe that the focieties were deterred
from meeting: that their difpirited leaders had
withdrawn themfelves, or were fcatter'ed far and
wide in different prifons; the Republican prin­
ciple, they contended, ftill remained inviolate and
incorruptible ! But where ? Not among the Nobles
who had ceafed to call Plebeian meetings, as the
latter fuppofed, to cdnfult with them !—not among
the dependants upon thefe Nobles, who had feceded
from the Senate, and enhanced their' crimes in
ceafing to harrafs the M inifter:—not among the
Commercial men in the City of London, whofe in-'
tereft it was to continue his fupport; but it was, to
France, that they fti.ll looked for the fruits of the
Tree of Liberty, which was to be yielded to them
alfo in due feafon. A fignal victory, obtained by
the Auftrians, or any of the Allies, feldom damped
the hopes of Democracy ; this was looked, upon, as
no more than the pruning of the branches, necef-
fary to make them fhoot again with frefh vigour,
If a commander was guilty, or accufed of corre-
fpondence with the enemy, he was only deemed a
canker-worm, who wanted to eat away the root.
If crowds of Emigrants or Priefts were adjudged
to death, it was ftill neceflary to deftroy them as fo
many locufts or caterpillars, who would have de­
voured the leaves, or, if whole branches of this
8 precious
[ 111 ]
Digitized by Google
precious tree of liberty were carried away to en­
graft upon other trees in Italy, Egypt, or the In­
dies, ftill all was well ; or, if the State Gar­
deners murdered each other, in confeqiience of
their difagreements about the manure, or the mode
of dreffing or fencing this hopeful feion, ftill no
difference was made. Robefpierre, it was thought,
would certainly bring it to perfe&ion. It was af­
terwards transferred to the Briffotines, the Sieyes,
and others, who continued to clip, and even ftunt
its branches ; ftill, as the root was fuppofed to be
found and vigorous, and that it would again ihoot
out with all its energies, when the managers could
agree among themfelves, thefe retrenchments cre­
ated no alarm. Every fucceeding Gardener, it was
prefumed, would mend the fault of his predeceflbr -
r
and when it was put under the care of Bonaparte,
then was expectation, for a moment, wound up to
its higheft pitch ; yet no fooner had his new plan
ripened into birth, than the falling off was inex-
preffible ! Conjecture now feemed loft, .and the
zig-zag flafhes of opinion, emitting a dark and du­
bious glare, refufed to be confined to any given
point. The multitude that fet out to follow the
French revolution, whatever courfe it’might take,
though before fomewhat confufed by the many
languages it had fpoken, were now at their ne plus
ultra. They were exactly in the fituation of thofe
timid animals, who, preffed and perplexed by the
ihouts of the hunters, know not which courfe to
purfue. In faCt, it was now neceffary, at all
events, to return ; for as the Archimedean ground
of France, upon which all the world was to have
been moved, had vaniihed, and only prefented a
yawning gulph in its placé-1
—there was no alterna­
tive. And to thofe who had recovered their reafon,
in ever fo fmall a degree, -it was now evident, that
- - . the
Digitized by Google _
the ihelter itili afforded by the Britilh oak, was-in--
finitely preferable to any exotic fubftitute vvhat-
ever.
But independent of thefe fails, which no fbplfif-
try is able to palliate, and which no dexterity of
movement can evade, the relative merits and de­
merits of Ariftocracy and Democracy, I think, may
.be illuiirated from fome confiderations not hitherto
explored ; and which, .1 prefume, mult place .the ,
weaknefs and infufficiericy of the latter in a new
,point of view,.and beyond all contradiction, l o
proceed ; if we compare the. ruling members of the
body politic, to the fuperior, faculties in the human
frame, it will appear that ¡there is a natural cor-
refpondence, and appofite relation between the
loweit and worit paffions ¡in individual exiitence,
.and the tumultuous motions, the furor, or the;panic
fears of democracy in the great world, or organized
fociety ; while Ariitocracy, from its liability, and
the. fuperior enlargement of its views, naturally
' approximates to Reafon,and the cardinal virtues of
Prudence, Juitice, Temperance, and Fortitude;
and thus, abitraCtedly confidered, is, in fail, the
and maturity of human fociety, in pppofi-
tion to its rqjhncfs, its youth, and inexperience. ■
Tor an experimental conviCHon of the evanefcen-
-cy, and abfolute nullity of a Democratic ¡form of
.government, we need not look at France, where
it has recently withered even in the hands.of phi-
lofophers,, but turn our eyes to the petulancy and
Jittleneffes, frequently attendant upon parochial ad-
.miniilrations ; and for.no other reafon, but becaufe
the adminftrators are chofen.as it were by lot, out
o f the body of the people. Thefe annual rulers, when
‘ veiled with a “ little brief authority,” are often To
m ush elated.by the.fudden change; that the. confe-
quence they allume, not being educated to rule, nor
i Q habituated
[ 113 . ]
Digitized by Google
habituated to command, is fuch, as to render
themfelves perfectly ridiculous or contem ptible;
to fay nothing of their too frequent a£ts of inhuma­
nity, which have fo often called for the interference
of fuperior courts, more enlightened, and confe-
quently more humane judges. Thus, if the pro­
ceedings of the committee-rooms had been as pub^
lie as thofe of the bench, the farcafm of the comic
mufe would have found an ample fubjefit in their
difeuffions and awards.
If we reduce the experiments of Democracy to
a narrower circle, notwithftanding fome of its ad­
vocates have told us, that the head of the govern­
ment ihould refemble the prefident of a common-
club, not -hereditary, but removeable at the plea-
fure of the members, the Jovcreign people, we ihall
llill find the theory at war with the praitice. Let
.us examine the internal economy of the numerous
popular focieties under the name of benefit clubs:
Are they not fubjeft to perpetual fquabbles*.
•growing, as it were, out of the facility of crimina­
tion ? Are not their concerns generally managed
by a fmall junto, and their difputcs generally fettled
by the clerk ? -No member is he, but only a fer-
vant to the fociety : yet to his opinion the majority
moftly pay a deference, merely on the fuppofition
of his fuperior abilities ! Is not fome one, in thefe
cafes* the indifpenfible charaiter who muft temper
their acrimony, foothe their jealoufies, and mitigate
their awards ? Thefe are undeniable fafits. A go­
verning Democracy then, even in miniature, is a
non-edtity which can have no permanent existence
but upon paper, or in the imaginations of' thofe
who mingle and confound theories for triecjl
fafits. , . •
But, .after all, if any thing is wanting to fatisfy
Ipeculatifts, who hold a contrary opinion, let them
' ' ' . try'
[ 114 ]
Digitized by Goog[e_
try Democracy upon their own families, and they
will there find it the proper parent of mifrule ana
perpetual difcord. And as I have ihewn it to be,
that, in a conftitution, which the paflions afe in the
human frame, Ariftocracy is, and mull: be, the
Reafon of a State. As fuch, it poflefles the inde-
feafible right of pre-eminence. I do not fay it can
exift independently of Democracy; it has as much
nieed of the ftrength and enthufiafm of the people,
as they have of its prudence and liability. But as
the paflions in an individual ihould ever be fubfer-
vient to reafon, it is equally juft, that the paflions
of a nation ihould be conftantly fubjedled to the
controul of the more noble and Superiorfaculties of
the body politic.
If the late degeneracy of the French nation, into
the madnefs of Democracy, has given us juft caufe
of alarm for our domeftic tranquillity, its fubfe-
. quent approximation, under the prefent Grand Con­
ful, towards that Ariftocracy we have juft iketched
out, Ihould allay every apprehenfion upon that
fcore.
The points of refemblance, in the fituation of va­
rious branches of fociety, and the interefts of clafti-
ing parties in this country, are not likely, after
what has palled, to fall into a limilar direction with
thofe of France, immediately preceding the late
revolution. Even the dilaffe&ed, with the failure
of eight years of experiment full in their faces, and
the consequent degradation of the French revolu­
tionary Spirit, are deprived both of precept and
example, They are, in a manner, bound hand
and foot, and thrown into the gulph of doubt and
uncertainty. To recover from the ftiock,therefore,
which the centre of all i-evolutibns has fuftained,
• mull be a work of time; and, before the public
mind, can be roufed into action, it will rather re­
’ v , Q 2 quire
[ 115 ]
Digitized by
quire a fecurity againft future fufferings, than an
indemnity for the paft. ,
In fine, the confluences of the French revolu-.
tion may, for a long period to conle, prefent them-
felves at the elbow of every projedf for political1
change or innovation ; being perpetuated in thofe
outrages of feeling, which cannot foon be forgot­
ten, they are impreffed upon the minds of men,
in characters which cannot eafily be erafed. On
the other hand,, thefe ch'ara&ers may even defy
the power of obliteration, being too deeply in­
dented in the earth, in the graves which have been
dug for the millions who have fallen.
But though, all through the courfe of this work,
I have infifted. upon the impotence of the Demo­
cratic and Infidel focieties, unconnedted with higher
influence, or external agency; and though their'
meetings are nomore holden ; ftill, as fcattered in­
dividuals, they are fufficiently numerous to do con-
fiderable mifchief; the Atheiftical clafs in particu­
lar feem moftly incorrigible. Incredible as it may
appear, they are all looking, forward for a millen-
mum of their own ! And, notwithftanding the re­
peated failures of the French philofbphers and re-
volutionifts, the Englifh Atheifts blindly infift,'
“ that civil fociety is in a progreflive date of im-.
“ provement, to which evefy government, .by its
“ weaknefs and crimes, is unavoidably contribuT
“ '"ting ; the final end of which, will be the diffolu-.
tion of them all ; and that the time 'is faft ap-.
“ preaching, and-Will infallibly arrive, when man'
“ ; and nature will be perfedt in all their relations,
“‘ and the former will be able to live without go-
vemment, without'laws, and'without fubmif-
lion !-!!” In England, thefe fanatics call tham-
- felves the difciples of Mirabaud and . Godwin: ’
• Upon the'German Continent, one of ' their moll'
" - 8 . ' notorious
- [ 1 1 6 ]
[ i n ]
notorious leaders is Profeffor Fichte, late of the
Univerfity of Jena; for a particular account of
w hom , vide Appendix to Vol. IV. of the Anti­
Jacobin. Magazine, and the German Journals for
1799, one of which, thus ftrikingly contrails the
unexampled audacity of the new impiety, in an
Epigram from the words of David—“ Thefool hath
“ f itid in his heart"— .
The ancient Atheift, dreading to impart
His impious creed, conceal’d it in his heart;
But m odern A theifts, fearlefs o f the rod,
In words and deeds, proclaim, “ There is no God !’'
Being warned, in facred writ, of thefe IcofFers,
that were to appear in the laft times, we know, from
the fame authority, that their end is deftruQion,
and that their folly (hall be manifeft to all.
B ut though, in a moral view, the anti-religious
opinions of Infidels mult meet with accumulated
contempt from the Chriftian world at large; yet, as
thofe who entertain them are all, without excep­
tion, tinged with revolutionary politics, and na­
turally deleft every eftabliihment, the utmoft
caution continues neceffary on the part of govern- .
ment, to prevent any combuftion or real grievance,
of which thefe incorrigible members might avail
themfelves, to involve the community, as agents,
jn the profecution of their invidious defigns.
T H E E N D ,
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
T
Books and Pamphlets lately publi/hed by J oh n
• H a t c h a r d , Bookfeller to H e r M AJESTY,
No, 173, Piccadilly. ' ’
A N ARRATIVE of what palled at Killalla, in the County of
Mayo, and the Parts adjacent, during the French Invafion,
in the Summer of 1798 ; attributed to have been written by the
Lord Bifliop of K illa lla . Price 3x. 6d. •
Forethoughts on the General Pacification ofEurope. Price 2s.
The Britilh Mercury; or, Hiilorical Trafts and Critical Views
o f the prefent Tim e; publilhed every Fortnight. Each Num­
ber 2s. .
Two Sermons by the Lord Biihop ofKillaloe; one on the Gene­
ral Thankfgiving, November 29, 1798; and the other p'reachef!
at the Chapel of Trinity-College, Dublin, April 7, 1799. Price
Is. 6d.
A Propofal for uniting the Kingdoms of 'Great Britain and
Ireland, firft written in the Year 1751; attributed to. the late
Lord D ow njhire. Price lx. 6d.
Elements of Chriilian philofophy, by the Lord Biihop of L in ­
coln, 2 vol. Price 14s.
Hiftory of the Interpreter of Prophecy; or, a View of Scrip­
tural Prophecies, &c. &c. by H e n ry K elt, B. D. 2 vol. Price
12s.
An Appendix to the “ Guide to the Church, ” in Letters to
Sir Richard Hill, Bart, by the Rev. Charles D aubeney, LL. B.
2 vol. Price lOis.
Reports of the Society for Bettering the Condition of the Poor,
&c. vol. 1, in boards. Price 6s. 6d. .
Ditto, in Twelves. Price 2s.
Ditto, Seventh, Eighth, I^inth, Tenth, Eleventh, andTwelfth
Reports, each lx,
Digitized by Google
•NEW -PV*tK>ATK5NS.
The Cheap Repoiilory Tracts— the genuine corrected Edition,
by Mrs. H . M ore, 3 vol. Price 12s.
A Brief Examination into thelnereafe of the Revenue, Com-
tinerce, and Manufactures, of Great Britain, from 1792 to' 1795),
by George Ro/e, Efq. 7th Edition, with,an-. Introduction, contain­
ing a Statement of the Revenue to the 10th of Oftober, 1799.
Price 2f.
Information to Overleers; earneftly recommended to the Per-
nfal of Overfeers, and all Perfons concerned in the Management
of Poor-Houfes. >
Price Gd. or 4-f. per Dozen.
A Sermon, preached before the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
on Wednolday, February ,27, ¡1799, 2d Edition, by the Lord
Biihopof D urham . Price l.v. 6a!.
-Reflections on the political State of Society at the Comjnence-
-rnent of the Year 1S0Q, by John Bowles, Eli}. 'Price 3s. Gd.
■ The Progrefs of thePilgrim Good in-Jacobinical-Times,
neatly printed in duodecimo. Price 3f. 6d. . .
■ -Pra&ical Obfervations on, the Revelation of St. John, written
fin the Year 1775» by the late Mrs. Bowdler, neatly -printed in
•crown. o£tavo. Price 5s.
Poems and.Eifays by the late Mifs Bowdler, to which is now
added an Eifay on the Duties and Advantages of Sickncfs, beau­
tifully, printed, and an efegantEngtaving of the Author. Price,
in boards, 11. Is. ■ .
■ .Extrait ¡from an Account of certain ¡poor Perfons io-London,
who cannot pay their Incom e-T ax, with Obfervations, .and a PJan
for their,Relief, &c. Price If.
vDearnefs occafioned by Scarcity, not Monopoly ; a -Sermon
delivered in a Parilh-Church, in Northampton, on the General
Taft, 1800; toiwhich is added, an Appendix, containing Hints
for the Improving the Condition of the Poor,-together with a
Table of the Average Price of Wheat in each Year, (from 1395
to 1798 incUifive. Price Ir. gtf. .
, T , Barton, Printer, \
Little (¿uten-Rmt. J
Digitized by Google
