{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V38 1928-29","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v38_1928-29.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V38 1928-29","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXXVIII
(CONTAINING PARTS 105-111)
I928-I929
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests e)itirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
' ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1929
Agents Jor the sale of publications
:
LONDON: FRANCIS EDWARDS, LTD., 83 High Street, Marylebone, W. i.
GLASGOW : JACKSON, WYLIE & CO., 73 West George Street
AMERICA: THE F. W. FAXON CO., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
CONTENTS.
PART 105.
PAGE
The Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-Telepathy. By V. J.
WOOLLEY • 1
Supplement.
rs. Review : Miss Nea Walker's " The Bridge : A Case for Survival."
^ By Eleanor Mildred Sidgwiok 10
j
PART 106.
'Presidential Address. By Sm Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. . . IT
0
PART 107.
The Modus Operandi of Trance-Communication according to
Descriptions received through Mrs. Osborne Leonard.
By C. Drayton Thomas 49^
I. The First Part of the Process : from Communicator to
Control 53-
II. From Control to Sitter 78
Supplement.
Review : Dr. T. W. Mitchell's " Problems in Psychopathology."
By Professor W. McDougall 101
PART 108.
Library Catalogue (Supplement 1927-1928). Compiled by Theo-
dore Besterman 102
I. Periodical, Serial, Society and Official Publications . 105
II. Books and Pamphlets 12T
235^56
iv , , , .,
Contents.
V ;v,
" •
.
' PART 109.
PAGE
Evocation of the De-^d and Kindred Phenomena among the
Natives or Madagascar. By Theodore Besterman . . 209
Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing : a Report on
Some Recent Experiments. By Miss Ina Jephson . . 223
Supplement.
Review : M. Leroy's " La Levitation." By Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo 272
PART 110.
Some Automatic Scripts purporting to be Inspired by Margaret
Veley, Poet and Novelist (1843-1887).
I. By W. H. Salter 281
II. The Literary Style of the Scripts. By Mr. V. . . 331
Some Ebincarnationist Automatic Scripts. By J. Arthur Hill . 37.5
Supplement.
Reviews : Dr. Burns's " A Case of Apparent Obsession." By
Walter Franklin Prince 388
The Margery Cross-Correspondences. By Theodore
Besterman 399
PART 111.
Report of a Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation. By
Theodore Besterman 409
I. Mme. Kahl-Toukholka : Paris 413
II. Mme. Briffaut : Paris 433
III. Rudi Schneider : Munich 433
IV. Maria Silbert : Graz 434
V. F. A. Rondon-Veri: Graz 449
VI. Tibor Molnar and Lajos Papp : Budapest . . . 450
VII. Zakariasne Papp : Budapest 465
VIII. LujZA Ignath : Budapest 466
IX. Anna Karlik : Berlin 472
Contents. v
PAGE
X. Peter Johanson : Berlin 472
XI. LuDwiG Kahn : Berlin 473
XII. Pascal Forthuny : Paris 474
XIII. Rene Daumal : Paris 476
XIV. The Dog Zou : Paris 47»
On the Asserted Difficulty of the Spiritualistic Hypothesis
FROM A Scientific Point of View. By Sir Oliver Lodge . 481
SUPPLEMENT TO PART 11
L
Officers and Council for 1929 517
List of Members and Associates .518
Index 555
ERRATUM.
Page 413, note 1, should reatl :
I believe the only published account of Mme Kahl's mediumship is a note
by her husband, 8. Toukholka, " Experiences de clairvoyance avec Mme
Olga Kahl," Revue Metapsychique (Paris, Novembre-Decembre 1922),
pp. 429-4.33. Dr Osty has carried out a series of experiments with Mme
Kahl, wliich he has discussed since my proofs were passed (see his " Ce
que hi medecine doit attendre de I'etude experimentale des proprietes
psychiques paranormales de Fhomme," Revue Metapsychique (Paris, Mars-
Avril 1929), pp. 124-1.36.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 105
THE BROADCASTING EXPERIMENT IN
MASS-TELEPATHY.
By V. J. WOOLLEY.
The experiment to be described in this paper was origin-
ally suggested to me by Mr. E. J. Dingwall. Its object
was twofold. The first object was to discover whether
any evidence could be obtained of the telepathic trans-
mission of ideas to strangers knowing nothing of the agents
except that thej were in a certain place at a certain time.
In the second place I hoped that, if there should be any
evidence of such transmission in a few cases, it might
be possible later to conduct more detailed experiments
with the successful percipients, and so to gain information
regarding telepathic processes and the conditions under
which they go on.
The Nature of the Experiment.
The experiment consisted in the production by me to
the agents at five-minute intervals of five different objects
in succession. At these times Sir Oliver Lodge at the
microphone directed the wireless listeners to record any
impressions they were able to form of the objects so
produced. The agents and I were in the Society's office,
with no means of communication with anyone outside it.
Sir Oliver Lodge was at 2 Savoy Hill.
The experiment took place on February 16, 1927.
The objects shewn were as follows :
At 11.15 p.m., a 2 of Clubs playing card, cut at the
time from an " Arpak " pack in which
this suit happens to be printed in green
,
on a black background.
2 V. J. Woolley. [part
At 11.20 p.m., a Japanese print. (Shown opposite.)
At 11.25 p.m., a bunch of three sprays of white HJac.
At 11.30 p.m., a 9 of Hearts playing card, cut at the
time from the same pack as No. 1, this
suit being printed in red and also on a
black background.
At 11.35 p.m., myself wearing a bowler hat and a grotesque
mask.
These objects were chosen entirely by me and their
nature was unknown to any other person till they were
shewn at the times given above. In choosing them my
aim was that each one should be moderately familiar to
all listeners, while it also had certain special peculiarities
which were unlikely to be guessed by chance. I hoped
also to arouse in the agents some feeling or emotion in
addition to a purely intellectual perception of the object
displayed.
The only information given to Sir Oliver Lodge, and by
him passed on to the listeners, was that numbers 1 and 4
were playing cards of unusual design, and that number 2
was a picture. The Hsteners were also asked to record
any emotions felt in connexion with the objects and any
sensations other than the visual ones to which it was
feared they might limit themselves unless they were
specially asked to do more.
For the purpose of the experiment each object was
shewn to the ' agents for 3 minutes, and an interval of
2 minutes was then given in order to separate each test
from the next and to minimise the results of small errors
in the listeners' watches.
The listeners were asked to post their results to the
Society's Office as soon as the experiment concluded, and, if
possible, to have the time of posting attested by a witness.
The agents remained on the Society's premises through-
out the night, without access to a telephone, until after
the morning clearances of the letter-boxes had taken
place.
The Choice of Agents.
We know nothing of the conditions or process of Tele-
pathy, and a 'priori there was no reason for choosing one
105] Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-Telepathy. 3
agent rather than another. We can distinguish, however,
between what we generally call " good sitters " and " bad
sitters " when we have to deal with the results which
different people obtain when they have sittings with
mediums. In default of any other criterion it seemed
reasonable to choose those as agents whom we knew,
from their recorded results, to possess the obscure quahty
of being " good sitters." By this term I mean people
who, when they " sit " with a medium, are usually told
rather more than the average amount of verifiable facts
which are definitely unknown to the medium. On the
assumption that many of such facts are derived from
the sitter's mind, there seemed some reason to choose
these "good sitters"' rather than others as agents in this
experiment, and all of the agents fall into this class. They
were seven in number in addition to myself.
Statistics of the results.
In all 24,659 answers were received, and it is con-
venient to deal first with the impressions recorded for the
two playing card tests, namely numbers 1 and 4.
The complete tables, shewing how many times each card
of the pack was recorded for each test, are given as an
appendix to this paper. It is clear from these tables
that so far as the card tests go there is no evidence at
all of any telepathic transmission. The relevant numbers
are as follows :
Test 1. 2 of clubs (correct) 190 records.
- 9 of hearts 491 records.
Test 4. 2 of clubs 145 records.
9 of hearts (correct) 150 records.
Since the 9 of hearts was not cut from the pack till
ten minutes after test 1 was over, the 491 records must
have been due to pure chance, and the other numbers
which are well below this must be attributed to chance
also. The numbers of the guesses made of the various
cards of the pack are, however, of considerable psycho-
logical interest in themselves, and also appear to have an
important bearing on the results of most experiments in
4 V. J. Woolley. [part
telepathy or clairvoyance where playing cards are used as
experimental objects. The peculiarities of these guesses
appear at once on studying the tables and they may be
summarized as follows :
{a) There is a strong tendency to choose an ace, especi-
ally the ace of spades.
(6) There is a marked preference for odd-numbered cards
as against even-numbered ones.
It follows from these facts that, in an experiment in which
cards are used to test some supposed faculty of perception,
the chances against naming correctly a particular card
cannot be assumed to be 51 to 1. There is a mental
preference for aces and odd cards, and the chances will
vary according to the card used.
It is this preference which has made it impossible in
this experiment to determine the numbers of correct
guesses to be expected by chance. If a pack is cut at
random the chances against any particular card being cut
are 51 to 1. If a person is asked to name a card at
random the chances against any particular card being
named seem to be indeterminable. Thus we have no
definite chance expectation with which to compare the
correct guesses in this experiment other than the numbers
of the incorrect guesses which I have quoted above.
Object No. 2 was described to the listeners as a picture,
and it is perhaps natural that the thoughts of most of
them were directed to well-known paintings or portraits
of celebrities. It seems hardly worth while to tabulate
these results in detail.
Only five listeners gave " a skull " as the description
of the picture, one adding the interesting detail that it
represented a skull in a garden, and a sixth noted " human
head." It seems, however, of some importance that, of
these six records, no less than three gave " flowers " for
No. 3, this being in fact the bunch of lilac.
In this test, white lilac was named by only three
listeners, one listener choosing mauve lilac.
The favourite choice was some kind of lethal weapon
associated with an emotion of fear. The following table
gives the numbers of the various impressions recorded :
105] Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-Telepathy. 5
Lethal weapon ----- 1394
Flowers (not named, or named as
other than lilac) - - - - 951
White scented flowers - - - 85
Musical instruments - - - - 920
Skull 704
It seems probable from these numbers that a large
number of listeners were influenced by the instruction to
record emotion, or a sensation in addition to that of sight.
The lethal weapon and the skull are guesses at objects
calculated to rouse emotions of fear and horror, while the
flowers and musical instruments are associated with sensa-
tions of smell and sound respectively.
It seems likely, too, that some of the listeners, knowing
of my medical qualification, may have guessed that I
should probably possess a skull, and might easily employ
it as a rather unusual object for the purpose of this test.
For the purpose, however, of this paper, it is important
to consider whether this choice of the skull by a number
of Hsteners for object 3 can fairly be believed to have any
relation to the picture of a skull which constituted object 2.
In view of the normal reasons which may have ac-
counted for these guesses it is impossible to put forward
these figures as a proof of the occurrence of telepathy in
our experiment, but it will be convenient to consider its
possibility in more detail after dealing with the recorded
impressions in test 5.
For this test it will be remembered that the object
-consisted of myself wearing a grotesque mask and a
bowler hat. The purpose of the test was to produce
feeUngs of amusement.
The following are the numbers of listeners who recorded
impressions at all related to the object of the test ;
Impressions of me ------ 5
of some one present - - - 146
of some one dressed up or mas-
querading ----- 236
of masks or faces - - - - 73
of hats - - - - - - 202
Feeling of amusement ------ 499
6 V. J. Woolley. [part
These numbers in themselves appear to me to have
httle meaning or importance, because there is no definite
chance expectation with which to compare them.
It is possible, however, to compare the number of
times that a given object is guessed correctly with the
number of times that it is guessed incorrectly in relation
to another test. In this way test 3 and test 5 should
each provide a control experiment for the other, in the
same way as do tests 1 and 4 which I have dealt with
above, and it is the main purpose of this paper to suggest
that such a comparative method of experiment should
always be employed in all attempts to test faculties of
clairvoyance and telepathy.
The following table, which, unfortunately, involves some
repetition, gives the numbers of guesses of given objects
or feelings in relation to these two tests. For clearness
I have underlined those numbers which may be called
successful guesses, which numbers should be compared
with the numbers of guesses of the same objects for the
other test, and I have also added the numbers of guesses
of certain widely chosen objects which had nothing to do
with either test.
III. V.
White Lilac. Myself in mask and hat.
Flowers - - - . 1020 523
Fruit and Vegetables - - 793 447
Perfumes - - - - 463 55
SkuUs ----- 704 166
Skeletons - - - - 116 49
Lethal Weapons - - - 1394 330
Musical Instruments - - 920 145
Hats ----- 49 202
Grotesque Faces - - - 5 73
Someone present - - 10 146
Myself - - - - 0 5
Someone masquerading - 0 236
Fear and Horror - - 988 307
Pleasant Emotions and)
.
, I
- 609 49y
Amusement J
105] Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-Telepathy. 7
Now these figures to some extent favour the supposition
that the Hsteners' impressions were influenced by the
objects shewn to the agents, especially if we can suppose
that some of the records of the skull for test 3 were
deferred impressions of the " skull " picture of test 2, and
the occurrence of such deferred impressions is, I think,
maintained by everyone who has carried on telepathic
experiments.
It is perhaps also reasonable to suppose that the post-
ponement of the " skull " perception from test 2 to test 3
may have been favoured by the apparent incongruity
between the idea of a picture and a telepathic impression
of a skull, so that the latter impression might emerge
later when an " object " was specified.
On the other hand the results cannot be said to
approach a proof. It seems to me to be probable that
for object 3 many Listeners guessed either a sound or a
smell, whence we get the musical instruments and flowers,
while for object 5 guesses were much more equally distri-
buted over a large field.
It may, however, be argued that a better estimate of the
results could be obtained by noting the numbers of
listeners who gave two or more correct records. If the
faculty or process is limited to a smaU number of people,
we might expect to find a few sets of records with several
successes which would pass unnoticed in dealing with the
statistics of each test separately.
The numbers of such double successes were very smaU :
indeed, in the case of the cards I believe that only two
Hsteners gave both correctly and in neither case was any
mention made of the colours. In chance guessing one would
expect about ten such double successes for the card results.
The most successful set was perhaps as follows :
1. Ace of Clubs.
2. Skull m garden.
3. Flowers.
4. Coloured " Snap " card.
5. Some black object.
In view of the number of listeners who gave the skull
for object 3, it may be worth while to quote some of
8 F. J. Woolley. [part
their comments, which in many cases are so made as to
point to a genuine perception rather than to a chance or
reasoned guess.
(a) II. A picture of an awful looking skull which I
clearly saw and could not get rid of the whole of the
time and which seemed to rule all.
(6) III. First impression was of a white ivory ball,
immediately succeeded by the impression that the object
was a human skull. It was still an ivory ball to my
vision, but it seemed borne in on me that it was actually
a skull.
(c) III. Skull and fear, and then stronger impression of
a flower.
(d) III. Horror due to a skull replaced by pleasure and
delight of a beautiful flower.
These quoted records show I thinli the great difficulty
of reaching any definite statistical result in tests of this
kind. The tests with the playing cards are the only ones
in which such a result is possible, and in these the figures
I have given offer no support to the supposition that
telepathy is possible under these conditions.
In the other tests the results are much less clear.
There is certainly nothing which can be taken as a proof
or even as a strong argument, but there does seem an
indication of a supernormal faculty on the part of a few
of those who took part, though their successes are swamped
by the very large mass of failures on the part of others.
I am glad to say that some of these successful hsteners
are now collaborating with Mr. S. G. Soal and myself
in a fresh series of similar tests which will form the
completion of this experiment, and may possibly furnish
more definite results than this prefiminary and widespread
attempt was able to do.
In conclusion, I have to express my very hearty thanks
to aU those whose co-operation made the experiment
possible. Among them I should fike specially to include
the British Broadcasting Corporation and its officials, Sir
OHver Lodge who acted as announcer, the group of agents
who endured a rather comfortless night to obviate any
chance of leakage of the results, and all those who helped
105] Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-Telepathy. 9
in the classification of the answers, especially Mr. S. G.
Soal who made a most careful and detailed analysis of
many thousand records.
APPENDIX.
Table showing numbers of Impressions of Various
Cards in Tests 1 and 4 respectively.
CLUB. Test 1. J. tioV oX AJJ Jlj
.
J, Hot i . J. tot
Ace - 1027 oil i\ce luoO
2 - - -
190 145 2 - 241 226
3 - - - 356 196 3 - 348 156
4 102 155 4 - 133 181
5 - - -
413 190 5 - 510 207
6 - - - 124 84 6 - 150 97
7 - - - 275 142 7 - 349 160
8 - - - 153 100 8 - 144 83
9 - - - 441 204 9 - 478 183
10 - - -
235 217 10 - 212 185
Knave 499 373 Knave - - 460 365
Queen 254 236 Queen - - 428 404
King - 353 418 King - - 279 290
DIAMOND. Test 1. J. Coi H:.
TTTT' A "Dn
Xl-CjA±tl . _Z 66t 1
.
Ace - 1600 iiCe QQA
2 - - - 257 9 1 Kl
lo / loo
3 - - - 512 1
Q
O 171
4 - - - 157 01 c A
4 lUo 1 K7
157
-5 - - - 828 o-sy 0 1A
1
I'kl w4:£)
6 - - - 224 163 6 - 173 86
7 - - -
601 234 7 - 347 125
8 - - - 175 100 8 - 177 91
9 - - - 864 288 9 - 491 150
10 - - - 492 359 10 - 210 165
Knave 546 454 Knave - - 440 337
Queen 328 439 Queen - - 784 791
King 276 394 King - - 385 399
The Joker - 900 2581
Cards not of
" playing card
"
230 2785
design
10 Review. [part
REVIEW.
The Bridge : a Case for Survival. Compiled by Nba Walker,
with a Prologue and an Epilogue by Sir Oliver Lodge.
lUustrated. Pp. 314. Cassell & Co., Ltd. 1927. Price 21s.
Tpiis important book gives an account of attempted communi-
cation and its gradual development between a Mrs. White and
her deceased husband, with some further experiments after
Mrs. White's own death in 1924. The case has already been in
part before members of our Society, for Sir Ohver Lodge (whose
secretary for psychical matters was and is Miss Walker, the com-
piler) gave an outhne of it, quoting extracts from the evidence at
an S.P.R. meeting in November, 1925. It deserves, however,
more serious study than an hour's discourse affords oppor-
tunity for, and all who are really interested in psychical
research will be well advised to read the book carefully, though
they will not find profitable study of it altogether easy nor
probably get from it sensational thrills.
There are two characteristics of the case to which special
attention may be called. The first is that it is in a sense
complete. The compiler has not only had before her fragments
and episodes of apparent communication from Mr. White ; she
is cognizant of all that Mrs. White experienced in that way
or that was obtained on her behalf through mediums, and
Miss Walker to a large extent herself directed the experiments.
She has very properly not given us in this volume full records
of all the sittings and communications, nor even the whole of
what has any apparent connexion with Mr. White. To have
done so would have drawn it out to inconvenient length and have
involved unnecessary repetition and the inclusion of matter of
doubtful interpretation and uncertain evidential value. But Miss
Walker herself has known it all and has only omitted for the sake
of brevity what seemed irrelevant. To make the selection in such
a manner as to present the case adequately and fairly and in
105] Review. 11
as readable a form as possible, with the necessary comments
and verifications, was not a very easy task, even with the
assistance Mrs. White was able to give, and I should like to
congratulate Miss Walker on the success with which she seems
to me to have accomplished it. I am to some extent a better
judge of this than the ordinary reader, because I have seen a
somewhat larger portion of the records than appears in the
book.
The second and more important characteristic is that what
one may call the backbone of the case, from a research point
of view, is a systematic and very successful attempt to get
evidence in a form which eliminates the mind of the sitter as
a possible source of the knowledge shown by the communi-
cator,—knowledge of things of which the medium and sitter
were both ignorant. This was accomplished largely through
sittings taken by Miss Walker as proxy for Mrs. White. Miss
Walker who, as explained in the book, at first only knew Mrs.
White by correspondence and knew nothing of her circum-
stances and surroundings except that her husband had recently
died and that she was very anxious to feel in touch with him,
suggested that she (Mrs. W^hite) should ask her husband to
communicate with her (Miss Walker), giving evidence of identity
which could be subsequently verified. Mrs. White entered into
the experiment gladly and with results satisfactory to herself and
valuable to all students.
The following (see pp. 227-229) is an instance of the kind
of result obtained—in this particular case knowledge shown of
Mrs. White's thoughts. It occurred in the course of a sitting
taken with Mrs. Leonard by Miss Walker, on behalf of Mrs.
White ; but Mrs. Leonard was not informed that Mrs. White,
who indeed was not known to her by name at all, was con-
cerned in the matter. By the time the sitting in question
took place, however, Mrs. White had personally sat anony-
mously with Mrs. Leonard several times with interesting results,
so that it may be supposed that some sort of rapport had
been estabhshed between them. Feda (Mrs. Leonard's well-
known control) speaking for Mr. White said among other things :
"... She wasn't very near the window, but she could se&
from where she was. She was looking specially at a peculiar
formation in the sky. And she wondered if it had any-
12 Review. [part
thing to do with us. He says, I'll put it this way—if
we were there. If that had anything to do with our
place [in the other world]. And I tried to impress upon
her, that, in a strange and peculiar way, it had to do
with us, and that she would not quite understand that
till later. ..."
Mrs. White gives particulars of such an experience which
she had one Sunday evening before the sitting, and she had
as a matter of fact, before she received the record of the
sitting included in a hst of impressions, placed for evidential
purposes in the hands of a friend, " Thoughts in connexion
with a golden cloud—is it where they are ?
" She was very
ill at the time and unable to write more fully. It must be
admitted that the corroboration of a friend is not always
forthcoming as it is in this case. But of Mrs. White's bona
fides there is no doubt and I do not think any reader of the
booli will question it.
A single example such as I have given does not really repre-
sent the case, for the effect of the evidence is cumulative. There
were numerous instances of apparent supernormal knowledge
—
not of course all of equal evidential value—shown through
various mediums, professional and private, concerning Mrs.
White ;
and after her death, concerning a friend of hers, Mrs.
White herself being the ostensible communicator. Mrs. White,
moreover, with an ouija-board got some facts concerning Miss
Walker and her sisters at a distance.
The attempt was made to obtain from Mr. White evidence
of memory of things unknown to any living person. In
particular he on one occasion professed to describe a childish
recollection which may quite well have been true ; confirma-
tion up to a certain point was forthcoming, but no one was
found who remembered the actual facts described. It is,
•of course, a well recognised difficulty in obtaining evidence
of this type that if the alleged fact was known only to the
deceased communicator, it can seldom be verified.
It may be asked : In seeking evidence of survival, how does
elimination of telepathy from the sitter help us if after all
the source of information is perhaps telepathy from a distant
living person ? There are two answers to this. The first is,
that it adds to our knowledge of telepathy, which is, I think,
105] Review. 13
the most promising line of advance in psychical research.
We at present know extremely little about it, and if we
could discover its modus operandi, its conditions and its limits
and possibilities, that would in itself greatly contribute to the
understanding of questions of survival and communication with
the dead. One reason why this book is valuable is that it is
a distinct contribution to the study of telepathy.
My second answer is more direct. The communications here
recorded do not merely consist of statements of fact which
turn out to be true. There is an atmosphere about them.
A personality is presented which is like Mr. White, showing
thoughts and feelings and associations of ideas like his, possess-
ing his memories apj^arently, and sometimes using his expres-
sions. Mrs. White gradually became so strongly convinced that
this was so that she ceased to doubt that she was really in
communication with her husband ; and I thinli any careful
reader will feel this atmosphere. Now, though at present we
know little of the limits of telepathic power, it certainly would
seem, other things being equal, prima facie more likely that a
vivid and veridical presentation of a personahty is derived
from the person represented than by telepathy even from the
sitter, and still more so if the alternative is telepathy from a
distant person. But this argument assumes that communication
from the dead is a possible alternative, and rigorous proof of
continued memory and affection is not attainable without
exclusion of telepathy from the living as a possible source of
communications. There are, however, degrees of probabiUty,
and accumulation of carefully examined evidence such as this
case affords would I think gradually produce practical convic-
tion that the source is the minds of the dead. Nevertheless,
we rightly desire scientific proof of so momentous a conclusion
and we must not relax our efforts to add to the evidence we
already have showing memory and intelligent action clearly
independent of minds still in the body ; for such evidence,
adequate in amount, would furnish the proof required.
I should like to call attention to two cmious instances of
apparent foreknowledge which occurred casually, as it seemed,
in the course of the investigation—though the subject of fore-
knowledge is rather off the main line of the book. The first
occurred at a sitting with Mrs. Leonard taken by Mrs. White
14 Review. [part
herself anonymously (see pp. 208, 9). The communicator
talked about the Quantock Hills in Somerset, where the Whites
had spent many holidays. Then after conversation about
other matters, Feda said :
' That place he spoke of—the place you planned to go
to again . . . You have a sort of picture or description of
that place. He's got such a strange feeling ; he feels
you're going to get another picture, sort of picture, quite
by accident, you'll think it's a sort of coincidence."
Mrs. White annotates :
" Whilst sitting in the train in the evening at Padding-
ton, just after the sitting, with my friend [who corro-
borates], and waiting for its departure, two ladies, one in
the carriage and the other standing on the platform, began
to talk about the Quantocks. The one told the other of
a long stay she had had in a village where we had stayed
. . . and finally gave a vivid description of the view from
the top of the hills, across the Severn sea to Cardiff."
The second prediction is even more definite and its fulfilment
more improbable (pp. 285, 6). The medium was Mrs. Warren
Elliott. The sitting took place after Mrs. White's death with
no friends of hers present, but it was understood that com-
munication with Miss Walker was desired. Mr. Elliott, the
husband of the medium, kindly took the notes. Both Miss
Nea Walker and her sister Damaris (who has psychic powers,
and had herself been one of the channels through whom Mr.
White had appeared to communicate), were absent from home.
Topsy (Mi's. Elliott's control) said :
"Spirit says . . . Dame (
= Damaris) made cake, sort of
spotted inside, and the blue fell in."
When the record was sent to Miss D. Walker for comment,
she wrote :
" I made some pastry, but it must have been [some
days] later than the date of the sitting. The blue (blue
for blueing clothes) did fall into the basin."
Later she added, in answer to further inquiries
:
" It was pastry I was making. ... I filled the scraps
with a mixture of currants and brown sugar. ... It does
give a '
spotty '
appearance where you bite into it ; and
T suppose they might be called small pastry cakes."
105] h .Review.'. 15
There was no conceivable reason why the fall of the blue
bag, or even its presence on the shelf from which it fell,
should have been anticipated by the persons concerned.
I must not leave the impression that, successful as the
experiments were on the whole, the communications were all
that could be desired. As is generally the case with tele-
pathic communications, they are apt to lack the fullness which
we should expect in conversations between living persons face
to face, and there are not only curious gaps and omissions,
but what is said is not always free from error. Even if we
may assume that the dead are able to be in complete touch
with us spiritually, and to know all our thoughts and actions,
experience seems to show that telepathic communication ex-
pressed in language is almost always incomplete and often
•confused. As Feda puts it on one occasion after Mrs. White's
death (p. 273) :
" There's some slipping point between us—what she was
going to say, and what she tried to say, and found it
wasn't given."
Another difficulty will be felt by some readers. There are
in the course of the book attempts to describe things in the
other world in terms of the material world we live in—rooms,
gardens, etc. E.g. on p. 146 Feda says for Mr. White :
" Tell her that in our house [in the other world] we
have everj^hing that she would hke, everything. ... He
says, tell her our piano is an Erard, but if she likes I'll
change it. That's what it is at present."
Common sense tells us that such descriptions, if they repre-
sent anything beyond the fancy of Feda or other control,
•cannot be intended hterally. If students kept this in mind,
a difficulty in estimating the value of statements through
mediums would perhaps be removed. A statement that the
emotional effect of music is experienced on the other side
would, of course, whether true or not, be in a different cate-
gory.
Mr. and Mrs. White were both very musical, and Mrs. White
was a good pianist. Her playing to him on the pianoforte
was an important featm-e in their married life. That appears
clearly in the book, with many other intimate details of their
life together. The reader must be prepared for an atmosphere
16 [part 105
full of tender sentiment and poetic ideas, in what Mrs. White
calls " a true after-death love-story." The book is not merely
a dry description of a scientific investigation, though the
sentiment has not been allowed in any way to interfere with
the carefulness of the investigation or the accuracy of the
report. Mrs. White left to Sir Oliver Lodge and Miss Walker
all the psychic material, and the right to use it, including her
most intimate messages, as they thought best for the widest
possible public.
" I would like the White case," she wrote, " to be used
to help others to realize that Love does conquer all
"
(p. 12).
We owe a debt of gratitude to Mrs. White for thus allowing
her inmost feelings to be revealed, and both to her and to
Miss Walker for the trouble they have taken in presenting
the evidence in what undoubtedly is, as the title intimates,
" a case for survival," and a valuable one.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 106
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
BY
Sib Lawbence J. Jones, Babt.
(This Address was delivered at a Private Meeting of the Society
on March 14, 1928.)
When it was first intimated to me that the Council
might like me to act as their President during the coming
year. I was somewhat perturbed at the thought that this
would involve delivering a Presidential Address ;
but I
then remembered that since the passing over of Miss Kate
Wingfield last summer, the records of the many sittings
which I had with her in the years 1900 and 1901 might
with the consent of her family be available as material.
That consent was readily given, and I propose now to
give a short account of these sittings.
Readers of the Journal will be aware that in September
1927 I revealed that Miss Wingfield was the "Miss A" of
whom Myers had written so much both in Proceedings
and in Human Personality. I do not propose to repeat
any part of what he has said as to Miss Wingfield 's
wonderful niediumship. but to begin at once at the
moment when my wife and I were first admitted to the
circle. It was just about the time when Miss Wingfield's
clairvoyance and automatic writing, which, assisted by
raps and table tilting, had been the means through which
communications were received, developed into trance
mediumship.
18 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [PABT
My wife and I had in 1898 lost our eldest boy at the
age of fourteen after a short and severe attack of septic
pneumonia. And when by a combination of circumstances
which did not at the time seem fortuitous we made the
acquaintance of Mrs. Wingfield and her family who were
then living at Belvedere House, Wimbledon, we were
naturally attracted by the thought that some communica-
tion might reach us with regard to the one who had
passed on.
I should add that at this time I had never sat with
any medium, and knew nothing of spirit return beyond
what had already appeared in Proceedings. I had been
an Associate of our Society since 1888.
The sittings were strictly confined to Miss Wingfield's
own family and a few intimate friends. Visitors were
rarely admitted. Through a common friend whom I
shall refer to as E. M. we were admitted to the circle
and later became regular members of it. At first the
sittings were held in the dark in order that Miss Wingfield
(K. as I shall call her) might see clairvoyantly any spirits
who might be present.
Raps were an invariable accompaniment of the sitting,
and very often a table was tilted. After the sitting
automatic writing supplied an explanation of what had
been seen and of the messages received through the
table. Later on K. used to go into trance and the
communicator would speak through her. This was a
far more rapid and satisfactory means of communication,
no laborious spelling out word by word through raps or
table tilting ; but the point to be noted is that it was
a development of what had already existed for many
years.
It was through E. M. that the development of this
particular form of communication was made possible, as
she formed a strong protection against the invasion of
undesirable spirits.
The records of these sittings were made as follows :
K.'s sister M. had learnt to write in the dark and
when I was present I also took notes, using a slate with
wires across it. We compared notes the next morning
106] Presidential Address. 19
and wrote out a fair copy in a MS. book. These books
have been preserved and have been the source of my
present address.
" Entia non sunt multiplicanda praeter necessitatem,"
is an admirable adage in Psychical Research—the real
^'
crux " is where does " Necessitas " begin ? In the case
of K.'s mediumship, I have extracted from the notebooks
covering the period May 1900 to November 1901 a list
of 30 different " Guides " and 108 " Communicators,"
total 138 separate entities. To attribute all these to
K.'s powers of dramatic characterization is beyond my
wildest flight of fancy.
At E. M.'s first sitting for table tilting in March 1900,
K. became clairvoyant and described a man in blue clothes
with a peaked cap, standing by E. M. ; the table tilted
out " Herbert." E. M. remembered a much older brother
Herbert who had died away from home when she was
a child, and who had been in the Navy.
" Can you be my brother Herbert ?
" The figure
nodded and seemed pleased. On a later occasion. " How
did you find me ?
" " Your prayers had helped me and
brought me in touch with you."
Later Herbert took charge of the Circle. A marked
masculine personality, with his own kindly and humorous
comments on the various communicators and on our
mistakes in dealing with them.
You ask what I feel about Herbert ? If you had had
over sixty conversations with someone behind a screen,
and had always heard the same cheery manly voice and
listened to the same kindly humorous judgments of men
a,nd things—coupled it may be with an occasional readi-
ness to answer fools according to their folly—you would,
I think, fully expect when the screen was withdrawn to
find a friend ready to welcome you. So I have no
doubt at all that when the time comes Herbert will prove
-as good as his word.
A striking contrast between K. and other mediums
lay in the fact that she had no " familiar spirit "—no
Phinuit or Nellie or Feda—no one to act as intermediary
between the communicator and the sitters. Herbert
20 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
was merely " Master of Ceremonies." The sitting in-
variably began with his three quick raps, the sign that
he was present.
When trance came on he would say a few words, and
again at the close, but he never interfered in the con-
versations.
If we consider the space that has been devoted to the
study of these trance controls in the various volumes of
Proceedings, we shall realize what an enormous gain it
is to the communicators and to the sitters when this
" third party " can be eliminated.
This partly accounts for the very large number of
communicators quoted above. We have had as many
as ten at a single sitting.
Herbert's function was to regulate their entrances and
exits and to see that K. was not physically affected
by them.
K.'s principal link with the outer world was through
her doctor Guide Semirus. He was supposed to have
been a doctor in ancient Egypt, but I do not know what
was the authority for this. He had a most peculiar
script, writing diagonally across the page beginning at
the top left-hand corner and running all his words in
together, so that it was not easy to decij)her. At first
sight he might have been supposed to be a secondary
personality of K., but an incident which was related to
me by the family makes it impossible to hold that belief.
On one occasion a sitter came down to Wimbledon to
get some information from Semirus, but when K. sat
down and called him there was no response. She tried
again after an interval and again a third time, but still
no response. The sitter went away and K. was much
discouraged, thinking that for some reason the power had
left her. Later in the day her hand was controlled
and there was Semirus. He explained that he had heard
her call, but was unable to come because he was assisting
in an operation at X Hospital. The operation was
a new one that had not been performed before, and
was quite successful. A letter of enquiry to the Hospital
was answered to the effect that such an operation was
106] Presidential Address. 21
indeed in progress during the time of Semirus's absence
and that the result was successful.
Another rather quaint incident strongly suggests an
independent personaUty. An old friend came down one
day to Wimbledon to ask for a report on the health of
his aunt who lived in London. He gave the aunt's
address, and in a few moments Semirus was back saying
that the aunt was dead. Greatly surprised the sitter
hurried back to find his aunt in her usual health. But
as he waited on the door-step after ringing the bell, he
realized that by inadvertence he had given Semirus the
wrong number ; let us say 28 instead of 29. A day or
two later a funeral took place from the house to which
he had wrongly directed Semirus.
The striking thing about Semirus to my mind is not
the value of the diagnoses or advice that he gave, but
in the incredible rapidity with which he was able to
discover and report on a patient at a great distance.
My own personal experience of Semirus began on
March 11, 1900, the occasion of our first visit to the
Wingfield family at Wimbledon. Having been offered
by K. that Semirus should write for us, we asked him
to go and look at our Eton boy who we had heard was
" staying out " (in ordinary parlance " staying in ").
We gave him the boy's name and address and, after a
pause, Semirus wrote, " Yes, I have found the boy. He
is a tall well-grown boy. I find he has had a slight
chill on his liver, but nothing much ; but he will be
all right again soon and is nearly so now. He wants a
good tonic." After that we got some advice about our
youngest child who was out at Valescure in the South
of France.
A more important communication came from Semirus
on June 2 of the same year. We were then at the
Bagni di Lucca intending to spend the summer in the
Appennines. Our third boy was at a Preparatory School
for the Navy, near Maidenhead. The Headmaster very
wisely had down Sir James Dick the former Director-
General of the Medical Department of the Navy. He
iiad inspected all the boys who would be candidates
22 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
for the Navy, and had rejected Bertram at once on
account of his feet. On hearing this unwelcome report
from the Headmaster I wrote to Sir James Dick to ask
whether anything could be done. Here is his reply :
64 Welbeok Stkeet, W.,
Cavendish Square,
May 29, 1900.
Deab Sir,
In reply to your letter, I am of opinion that your
son would not be accepted as a Cadet. His feet are not
well-formed, and there is a contraction of short muscles
of the sole and Planta-fascia, more especially of the right
foot, impairing his activity. Remedial measures might
improve them but not sufficiently I think to enable him
to pass into the Navy. . . .
On the whole I should advise you to give up the idea
of the Navy for him, and to select some career in Civil
life for which he is i^hysically quite fit.
Yours truly,
James Dick.
Before acquiescing in this advice we decided to consult
Semirus, and wrote home to Wimbledon for his advice^
The message we received ran thus :
I have been twice to see the boy. I cannot think
that it is incurable, it appears to me to be a contraction
of the tendons that govern the muscles and I believe
that some really good surgeon can set it right. Of course
I know it might be a six months' job for the feet would
have to be massaged and rubbed and strengthened after
the tendon was stretched. It seems to me that such a
little thing would do it if the Doctor could be persuaded
to. I see no reason he should not be quite ready for
the Navy in nine months' time.
In consequence of this advice the boy was taken to
Mr. Noble Smith who undertook to operate and straighten
out the feet, but as the operation was a very delicate
one, only on condition that the parents came over to
England and gave their personal sanction. We conse-
106] Presidential Address. 23
quently changed all our plans, came over to England,
saw Noble Smith, authorized him to carry out the opera-
tion, which was entirely successful, and the boy passed
into the Navy with no difficulty the following March.,
A critical examination of Semirus's words suggests that
this was really only a happy guess on his part. He uses
the words " Surgeon and Doctor " indiscriminately, and
one cannot tell whether he really understood what could
be done by up-to-date surgery. However, his advice to
consult a surgeon was perfectly sound, and enabled the
boy to enter his profession.
After that Semirus became for a year or two what
may be called our family doctor for the minor ailments
of a large family. I do not see any trace of deep know-
ledge of either surgery or medicine ; he is rather of the
type of an old-fashioned country doctor using homely
remedies. Here is his remedy for a cold in the head :
" What you had better do is to steam your head over
hot water and ammonia and then put a flannel right
over your head, and go to sleep, and take a really big
glass of hot water, lemon and whisky, and do not be
sparing of the spirit." I have a note to this. " Tried
and found quite successful and the following day we had
a picnic up at the Malpey."
Here is an occasion when Semirus's advice was of
practical use to us. In the summer of 1901 a house
had been taken for us for a few weeks in a small country
town near the East Coast. We had been there two or
three weeks when K. and E. M. came down to stay.
They were not very happy about the drainage, and the
morning after they arrived Semirus was consulted. He
wrote:
I strongly advise you not to remain in this house any
length of time. I do not like the situation in regard
to health. All the groimd under the house is saturated
with sewage, it will get into the system and come out
in many ways. My strong advice is not to remain
longer than is necessary, I do not consider it sanitary.
Open doors and windows are no use, as the evil comes
from below under the house. It is most unwholesome,
24 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
most. My disinterested advice is do not stay longer than
you can help. Children brought up in the house do not
take any harm, as their blood is saturated with the atoms ;
but fresh persons with good blood coming in are much
more liable to be affected. You can draw no argument
from the health of the residents.
In consequence of this advice we went the next morning
to a sea-side town a few miles off, took a house there for
the following day, and as soon as we had moved sent
over a sanitary expert who pronounced the drainage
system as bad as it could be ; all joints leaking and the
house full of sewer gas.
Semirus wrote for K. all through her life, and more
than one doctor consulted him again and again so that
his diagnoses in obscure cases must have been of value.
Semirus never would give a prescription to be made
up at a chemist's, on the ground that he was not a
qualified Medical Practitioner.
In the case of a skin affection he once excused himself
for failure to make a satisfactory diagnosis, on the ground
that he could not touch the affected part. The only
question he would ask before starting on his journey was
what limb or organ was to be inspected.
The script was always handed over to the sitter, and
K. knew nothing of its content, except when she was
asked to help to decipher it.
To return to our sittings. I should here explain that
the purpose of these sittings was a most serious one.
Mainly to obtain light and teaching on the mysteries of
life and religious problems ; but also at the instigation
of some of the controls to afford a meeting place for those
who having j^assed over had not yet succeeded in meeting
each other. This sounds very strange but it is the only
intelligible explanation of the number of dramatic situa-
tions which unrolled themselves as the sittings went on.
As assistance to those in darkness and isolation was
the purpose and not identification or corroboration of
their stories, it is rare that proof can be offered of the
reality of what took place ; but on one occasion identity
106] Presidential Address. 25
was, so to speak, forced upon us and of this I propose
to speak in some detail.
On September 8, 1900, in the course of the afternoon
K. felt an impulse to write, and taking some sheets of
paper drew on successive sheets five rough drawings. The
first was of an arm and hand holding what might be a
toy pistol which was being fired off. The next, three
figures walking together and the end of the pistol pointing
to one of them. Next a figure of a woman just falling
over, bleeding in the head ; below a policeman blowing
his whistle, and a stretcher. Next a man's figure hiding
something in his pocket. Then a female figure with a
man beyond her with his arm round her, and another
man shaking his fists at them. Then writing. " Sarah.
Jack killed Sarah. Sarah. Sarah Willet. Jack Parr.
August 2 days ago."
In the evening a sitting was held and Sarah Willet
communicated the following.
(K.) She says it was her fault not his, you mustn't
let him be killed for it. If he is, she shall never forgive
herself, never rise, never move. . He makes her come to
him, he caUs her all day long. She wants you to stop
him, and tell him she's forgiven him, but she can't go to
him. He shot her. There is a great deal going on
about it now. She can't move from the place, she walks
up and down, up and down—she wants help.
(Sarah Willet herself.) He'd been following me all the
time. I told him I wouldn't see him. I knew he was
hurt. It was aU because I went out with Charlie Higgins.
I told him if he followed me any longer I'd have a bobby
after him. I turned to pretend to call one, and he
shot me. I can't get away. (Where did you live ?)
7 Sydney Street. (Where did he live ?) John Parr ? I
think it was in Green Street. I never went to his rooms,
he always met me outside. (What was his work ?) He
rubbed. (A masseur ?) No, in a furniture shop. (What
did you do ?) I worked. (In a shop ?) No, I helped
Mother. I brought it home. I didn't work for a shop,
but for anybody ; all kinds of work. I can't pray. I'm
a2
26 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
waLking up and down. I wasn't ready to go. It was
cruel to send me like that. I should, have gone back
in a day or two. He's glad he did it, because he was
angry. He says he wiU make her suffer. If I could get
to him ! Don't let him come over here ;
stop them from
sending him ! I've paid for it, it was my sin.
Sept. 11, 1900.
Have you foimd Jack ? I'm not so cold as I was.
I was walking along, and he was there behind me. Mary
Wilson was with me. I told her to pay no attention.
It was cruel of me. I said, " I shall call a bobby." He
took a pistol—in a moment it was done ! I didn't get
out for half an hour, then I suffered tortures. I didn't
care for my body, I knew it was my fault. Two people
have been to me, they tried to get me away. I went
with one, a good man. The other was a woman, she had
suffered too, she was very good to me. I think if I can
get to where she is I shan't remember so much.
(Dark sitting, Sept. 30, 1900. Sarah Willet speaking.) I
Jack ! Jack ! Jack ! He's calling me. I had got
away. " It's your fault !
" he says, " your faidt !
" all
the time. If he does not call me I can get up.
Oct. 2, 3 p.m. (Sarah Willet writing through K. and E. M.)
" Do not let my death be avenged."
About 9 p.m. the same evening as K. was walking down-
stairs she felt two strong hands seize her by the shoulders
and shake her violently. On asking Herbert about it he
wrote, " It is poor Sarah gone mad. He (John Parr) is
after her. He has come over.
Later in the evening at a dark sitting K. said she saw
Sarah Willet, also a figure with a black thing like a
sack tied over his head and shoulders. He came close
to one of the circle, and seemed to envelop him, thus
giving the feeling of being strangled. (By raps) " John
Parr hanged to-day."
Not much attention was paid to the earlier of these
communications which were interspersed with others of a
similar nature, but on September 14, 1900, to our surprise
we read of the trial at the Old Bailey of John Parr, aged
106] Presidential Address. 27
€ighteen, French Polisher, charged with the murder of
Sarah Willet the younger, on August 27.
I have recently ascertained that reports of the murder
and inquest had appeared in the Morning Post of August
29 and September 1, but these had not been seen by
any member of the circle. Otherwise the names would
have been recognized.
Here is the extract from The Times, September 14, 1900,
John Park, 19, French Polisher, was indicted for and charged
on the Coroner's inquisition with the wilful murder of Sarah
WiLLETT the younger.
Mr. Horace Avory, Mr. R. D. Muir and Mr. Guy Stephenson
conducted the prosecution ; Mr. Biron, at the request of
IVIr. Justice Bucknill, defended.
The prisoner had been keeping company with the deceased,
who was 19 years of age. Some weeks before August 27th
—the day on which the prisoner killed her—the woman had
broken off the engagement. It was stated on the part of
the prosecution that on August 25 the prisoner was drinking
in a public-house with three yoimg women, and in the course
of conversation with them alluded to his quarrel with Willett,
and said he intended to do for her and himseK too, adding,
" Instead of hearing of a marriage you wUl hear of a burial."
He produced a revolver and fired it into the street to show
that it was loaded, and gave cartridges to two of the young
women as a present. On August 27 the deceased and a girl
friend were in the Foresters' Music-hall in the East-end of
London. The prisoner came to the Music-hall and asked
Willett to treat him to some drink, but she refused, whereupon
he took up her glass of stout and drank it. The girl and
her friend left the Music-hall. The prisoner followed them.
When opposite the police-station in the Bethnal Green Road,
WiUett said to him, " What do you intend to do ? " The
prisoner made a reply to the effect that he intended that
she should continue to keep company with him. The deceased
said,
'"'
I don't want you. All I want is an honest, hard-
working fellow—not one who robs others." The prisoner
thereupon drew a revolver and fired a shot at Willett. The
bullet entered her temple. She screamed and fell. A police-
officer rushed out of the police-station and found the prisoner
28 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
with the revolver in his hand. The prisoner exclaimed, " I
have done it. I have done it." He was searched, and on
him was found a piece of paper on which was written, "It is
all her own fault, and she deserves it. Goodbye pals, one
and all." The injured woman died the same evening.
Dr. Scott, Medical Officer of HoUoway, said that while the
prisoner had been in HoUoway upon the charge he had been
kept under close observation to ascertain the condition of his
mind. He thought that the prisoner's intellect was of a
somewhat low order. The prisoner was vain and bombastic.
He was informed that there was a case of alleged insanity
on each side of the prisoner's family, and he was told that
the prisoner had had a severe fall at a gymnasium some years
ago. He had seen nothing about the prisoner which, in his
opinion, indicated insanity.
Evidence was given for the defence. It was stated that the
prisoner had seemed strange in his maimer for some time
before August 28. He spoke of going to Australia. There
was insanity in his family. Some years ago he had had a
severe fall on his head at a gymnasium. He had complained
of pains in his head.
Mr. Biron submitted that there was no motive for the
prisoner to murder the deceased. The revolver was little
more than a toy. There was no evidence that the prisoner
took out the revolver and aimed it at Willett. The first
thing that was seen was the flash of the revolver going off.
It might very well be that it went off by accident. The
prisoner's mind at the time was distraught and unhinged.
The jury retired to consider their verdict, and after an
absence of nearly three-quarters of an hour they returned into
Court finding the prisoner CtUILTY, but strongly recommending
him to mercy on the ground of his youth.
Mr. Justice Bucknill said that the recommendation to
mercy would be at once forwarded to the proper quarter. He
sentenced the prisoner to death.
Morning Post. Oct. 3, 1900.
'
Execution at Newgate—John Parr, 19, French Polisher,
who was sentenced to death at the Central Criminal Court for
the murder of Sarah Willett, aged nineteen, by shooting her
106] Presidential Address. 29
with a revolver in Bethnal-green, was hanged within Newgate
Gaol yesterday morning. Death was instantaneous.
John Parr made his first appearance at the evening
sitting on October 2, the day of his execution. He was
in a great rage, calling for Sarah. He had been told he
would find Sarah here. E. M. explained that he would
not be allowed to see Sarah until he had forgiven her ;
that they were now both dead, so that it was no use
keeping up enmity.
He came again on October 3 and 4, and gradually came
to see reason. On October 22, he announced that he
had forgiven Sarah and had met her, but did not intend
to have anything more to do with her. After that he
was constantly popping in to say a few words.
Unfortunately the MS. book with the verbatim reports
of these sittings is missing, and we have only the summary.
But on October 28 he came and said, in reference to a
cabinet which he had noticed as needing a polish :
I have come to tell you how I am getting on, and to
thank you for helping me ; and I will give you the polish
what was given me, I was not to tell anybody. Beeswax,
honey, vinegar, whiting, and linseed oil. Mix linseed
and vinegar and honey together, dab linseed and vinegar
with a very little honey and do not forget the whiting.
Sprinkle a very little in with the other, then get your
beeswax, and leave it to soak in ; and when it is soft
drain off all that will run and keep the thick. Get a
piece of wadding and tie it up tight in a piece of soft
muslin. Put it in the polish. Work with the grain of
the wood, and never stop till you have rubbed every
drop in. Then take a piece of clean flaimel, dip it in
linseed oil and rub in with the grain, this time round and
round ; then polish with a wash-leather pad.
This was done, and next time John Parr came, he
expressed himself very well satisfied with the result.
But, you will say, and rightly, why go so fully into
this case 1 Is there anything special about it ?
Now the latest serious study of our literature is by
Dr. Broad, the eminent Cambridge logician and philo-
30 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
sopher, in his book The Mind and its Place in Nature
published in 1925. Dr. Broad has read our Hterature
and has attended some sittings, and his conclusion is
that the known facts support the theory of " the persis-
tence of some factor which was a constituent of a human
mind," but not the survival of that mind integrally.
His words are, page 539 :
We are not justified in saying that the mind of John
Jones has survived tlie death of his body imless we
have reason to believe that there is still a continuous
stream of mental states which may be said to be " Further
experiences of John Jones." We must suppose that
this contains conations as well as cognitions, that it puts
ends before itself and tries to realise them, and that it
feels elation, or disappointment, according to its success
or failure in doing so.
Now strangely enough it is this case of Sarah Willett
and John Parr which seems to contain the very elements
which Dr. Broad misses in his alleged communications
from the dead. Sarah was terrified at the thought of
John's revenge. John arrived in hot haste after hanging,
in search of revenge, had to be made to see that revenge
was useless, and finally forgave Sarah and became a
reasonable being with a future of progress before him.
Here we have conations, attempts to realise ends, and
disappointment, and in a mild form, almost elation.
I conclude then that survival fits the facts and that
more than " temporary mindkins " (Dr. Broad's phrase)
may be revealed through trance mediumship.
Another communication that has been verified is that
of John Mitchell who controlled on December 22, 1900,
when Myers was present. My note is :
John Mitchell looking for Richard Goss, both drowned
together at Devonport three weeks ago.
Then on February 11, 1901, K. was crystal gazing and
saw two men rowing hard in a boat in a rough sea, with
land on either side ; then the boat capsized and the taller
of the two men, with a black beard, was drowned. Then
came letters of the alphabet, each word spelt backwards...
106] Presidential Address. 31
"Dick Goss, Saltmarsh, Plymouth. He was di-owned and
his body was not found ; he has been before to you
when your friend Myers was here. He wants help very
much. He wants his body found, it lies off Plymouth
Sound." No mention of this accident appeared in the
London Standard, the only newspaper that was taken at
Le Chalet at that time. Later on I wrote to the Editor
of the Western Morning News and obtained from him a
short notice of the inquest on the body of John Mitchell
who had been drowned about December 10, 1900. He
was a Plymouth longshore man. The body of his com-
panion Richard Goss had not been recovered. I gave
this cutting with a copy of the communications to Miss
Johnson in case she could find room for it in the Journal,
but on enquiry at the office I find that it has disappeared,
probably during the move from Hanover Square.
On July 8, 1900, at Wimbledon the following message
was rapped out from Herbert. '•
There is a man here
who wishes me to tell you his name is Arthur Trefusis
Jones." I vaguely remembered a cousin of that name
who had died many years before. I said, " Are you a
son of Sir Harry 1
" " Yes," was rapped out. Then
" Will you ask for help for Kumasi ?
" After this I wi'ote
to my mother if she could tell me anything. She replied,
" You ask if I can tell you anything of Sir Harry's son
Arthur, poor feUow. He and I were just like brother and
sister all the time Sir Harry was at Chatham. He was
intended for the Army Medical Service, but at the time
of the Crimean War got a commission and then was
sent out to the Gold Coast and died there in June or
July 1861." Kumasi was invested by the Ashantis on
April 25, 1900. The garrison was reheved on July 15,
only just in time to prevent their being starved into
surrender.
On a later occasion I asked Herbert how this cousin
had found me out. His reply was, " In the first place
time has nothing to do with it and, secondly, association
of relationship makes a link from one to the other
—
though it makes no difference as to being with each
other. Yom- Guides have met his Guide and there is a
32 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
chain that way. Knowing that there was a possibility
of communicating he came ;
though it is quite certain
he would not have come so easily to any other circle.
And again your Guide knows your father's Guide. He
would know the Guides of other members of his family ;
and so links are easily formed with what seem to you
past generations.
On May 1, 1901, Victor Baihff, a sailor on the Lorton
communicated. He said that he had passed over eleven
weeks ago stabbed by Giovanni. " It was my fault not
his ; I forgive him." The Lorton was at Falmouth with
a cargo of nitrate. Again on May 5, the same com-
municator, " Do not let it be visited on him, I provoked
him, I think he is in prison at Truro." In the Daily
Mail for June 27, 1901, there was a paragraph headed
" On Behalf of a Murderer " (from our special corre-
spondent) Rome. Sunday. June 23rd.
The Italian Government has made representations to
the British Authorities with reference to Giovanni Valeiri,
an Italian sailor who was condemned to death at Bodmin
for murder. It seems that Valeiri had been several
times confined in a Lunatic Asylum, and has always been
weak mentally.
Giovanni Valeiri was sentenced to death at Bodmin
Assizes on June 17 for " the murder on the High Seas
of Victor Bailiff a native of Jersey." The motive was
supposed to be one of revenge.
It would almost seem sometimes as if identification so
much desired by us here is for some reason not liked
by those on the other side. I had a striking example
of this when, in the year 1902, passing through Paris,
I made the acquaintance of Monsieur Fernand Desmoulin,
a well-known French portrait painter, who had recently
developed automatic drawing. He had been told by
automatic writing to buy a box of pastels and suitable
canvasses, and when I visited him his studio was filled
with weird landscapes, drawn with great vigour, but
utterly unlike any earthly scene. He had also drawn
human figures in mediaeval costumes and head-dresses.
106] Presidential Address. 33
He was ordered to avert his eyes until the drawing
was completed ; if he looked his hand stopped and wrote
" tu regarde " on the paper beside the canvas. These
drawings were signed " Ton vieux maitre " or " Stromboli."
On one occasion Stromboli had drawn a series of profiles
on one canvas, one within the other, and being in a
communicative mood had stated that they were portraits
of his family. He had on different occasions given a
little information about himself—that he had been an
Englishman ; that he had been dead so many years, and
some other facts about his life which should make
identification fairly easy. As I was returning to England
Desmoulin asked me to try and find out if there had been
an English artist whom the facts fitted.
On arriving in London I called on the editor of an
illustrated paper, and in a short time ascertained that
there had been an English artist whose life exactly fitted
the statements of Stromboli. The editor very kindly
gave me a copy of a back number of the paper containing
the portrait of this artist which had appeared at the
time of his death. I at once wrote to Desmoulin and
suggested that next time Stromboli controlled he should
get him to draw his own portrait. I said I considered
that if it resembled the portrait in the newspaper it
would be highly interesting and somewhat evidential.
I waited some weeks for a reply, and then heard that
from the day my letter was received Stromboli had never
controlled again. It would seem that for some reason
or other he did not wish his identity to become known.
In the late autumn of 1900 after the death of Mrs.
Wingfield, K. and her two sisters came out to Valescure
to stay with E. M. at her villa. We were in our own
villa not far off and a large number of trance sittings took
place, under what I venture to think were ideal con-
ditions. What are ideal conditions ? A small circle of
intimate friends with one of themselves as medium, sitting
regularly in a quiet spot under good climatic conditions.
The purpose of these sittings was, as before, a serious
one, either for instruction or for help to those who may
be brought to the circle.
34 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
What in the year 1900 was the presupposition of
trance sittings ? Myers' book was not yet published,
though part of it had appeared in Proceedings. But there
was no general knowledge of the unconscious, the sub-
conscious or subliminal. The tripartite division of Man as
body, soul and spirit was the only one known. The soul
left the body during sleep or in trance.
As an illustration of this, on four different occasions,
my youngest girl, aged nine, purported to control during
her sleep, speaking with great animation and very charac-
teristically. In the first instance, she was at Ripley, some
fifteen miles from Wimbledon where K. was staying.
Later at Valescure she was asleep either in the same
house or in the neighbouring villa.
On the first occasion the child was asked, after some
conversation, " What about the sailor frock ? " The
answer came, " We went to a shop. Mummie just said,
'
You get those things out. That is her tallness.' And
they got them ;
nothing else to be done, no altering.
They just sent them home. That's what I like." This
was a correct version of what had happened that after-
noon. The child had been taken by her mother to
London but none of us had been at Wimbledon that day,
so K. and the other members of the circle only knew
that there was a plan to buy a sailor frock.
Here is Herbert's comment
:
In many cases a spirit on our side is quite unable to
tell if a person is dead, or vmconscious, or merely sleeping,
if the spirit is outside ; for after death for some little
time the cord hangs loosely before it is absorbed into the
soul-body, and often in sleep the slackness of the cord
presents the same appearance.
This may be compared with the " Beard " case in
Journal XXIII, pp. 130-132, where Mr. Beard was described as
having quite recently passed over at a sitting held some
eight hours before his actual decease.
We sat three and four days a week, generally for
about an hour and a half, without the shghtest effect on
K.'s health. After her return to England in 1901 it was.
106] Presidential Address. 35
decided by her family that it was undesirable that she
should become known as a trance medium, and the
sittings became occasional only and were finally abandoned.
It may be of interest here to say something about the
trance. It was induced by a tap on the temple by E. M.
and the order "Go to sleep." A similar tap with the
order " Wake up," restored K. to consciousness. There
was no waking stage as in Mrs. Piper's trance. Complete
amnesia of what had happened either in the seance room
or to herseK was the general rule.
But on two or three occasions she was told to remember
whom she met on the other side and what they had told
her. Once when she had been working a cushion cover
in silks and was puzzled as to what was the right stitch
for completing a tulip, she was asked to find out on the
other side from a friend who had often communicated
and who in life had done beautiful embroidery. On
waking up K. said that she had been to the " garden
"
and met Marguerite and had consulted her about the
tulip. Marguerite had then " made " a tulip, also canvas
and silks and needle, and had shown K. exactly what
stitch to use. Certainly the tulip was successfully com-
pleted and the cushion cover long remained a valued
possession.
Other curious occasions were when K. seemed to stand
outside her body and control it from outside just like
any other control. At these times she always spoke of
her body as a "Me," and her soul as an " I " "There
is an '
I '
here who hasn't got a '
Me,' " speaking of my
boy who was waiting his turn to control.
It was during K.'s stay at Valescure that the cross
correspondences with Mrs. Thompson took place described
by Mr. Piddington in Proceedings, Vol. XVIII. , pp. 205,
267, 294. As the previous pseudonym " Miss A." had
been used by others, I was asked to suggest a second,
and decided on " Miss Rawson." Further mention by
Sir Oliver Lodge occurs in Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.,
pp. 212, 219. Also in Journal, Vol. XL, p. 167.
In addition to raps and table tilting we occasionally
got what is now called telekinesis, movements of objects
36 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
without contact. Here is my note of a sitting at Le
Chalet, Valescure (E. M.'s villa), on January 29, 1901.
As soon as K. was entranced she got up and moved
across the room in the dark in search of a small round
heavy table, which she placed in front of the sofa on which
she sat. It was then forcibly raised in the air until
almost out of reach. E. M. seized the leg and brought
it down to the floor again.
The room was not pitch dark, there was a fairy lamp
out of direct sight, and the remains of a fire on the
hearth. The table was plainly visible in the air. Herbert
then spoke and said that this physical manifestation was
in answer to what E. J. (my wife) had been mentally
asking for. Then a second time K. went in search of
the table which had been moved away and, having got
it, collected my hand and E. J.'s and put them with
her own and E. M.'s on the top of the table. It was
then forcibly lifted ujd from underneath and when about
three feet from the ground fell with a crash that broke
part of the ornamental carving. Then Herbert spoke
to E. J.
You wanted this not as a test but as it were an
illustration to a book, to help you to realize physical
phenomena. I had to have some particular spirits who
came, who were material, to do it. To get active power
you must get spirits on the earth plane, not bad ones,
to help. I asked for someone to give you that demon-
stration. Materialized hands were pushing the table
up, most of the power to do this came from K. and
E. M. (E. M. became very hot during the levitation.)
I did not tell any of you beforehand that I intended to
do this, so that it was not only a manifestation of spirit
force but of the power of spirits' knowledge of your
own mind.
Then comes a note in my wife's handwriting.
The last sentence was in answer to a mental wish I
had formed during that afternoon while reading, that I
might one day witness some striking physical phenomena.
I had not confided my wish to anyone.
106] Presidential Address. 37
Again on March 28, at a house in London.
We sat round a small table. K. not in trance. The
table was violently shaken and finally lifted into the
air twice and then let down with a crash. The small
armchair on which K. was sitting was moved under her,
and after she had got up and no one was touching it,
was again slowly moved round and away. Then a screen
was slightly moved without contact with any sitter.
Afterwards K. went into trance and Herbert said he had
got help from some Elementals (or forces) to produce
these movements. They had tried to get passage of
matter through matter, but there was not enough force
in the circle. We were all tired after a long day in
London.
Here are the Notes on Apports. Ned Carter was a
little Cockney boy who often came to the circle.
September 2oth. Herbert rapped : "I have told Ned
to try and bring you something to-night. K. was then
entranced, and said, " They are trying so hard to bring
something from the next room "
—presently she said,
" They've done it," and after a little Ned Carter came
and spoke. " I've brought you a flower—a red one
—
aren't you going to take it ? (Where is it ?) In that
'ere red thing. I brought it out of the next room,
through the wall." (After the sitting we found a red
sweet-pea had been put in the little tray on the table
we were sitting round but not touching, broken off rather
short. Herbert told us when he came, that it was out
of one of the vases on the dining-room table, so we
looked and found the other half of the stalk in one of
the vases, exactly fitting the one which had been brought
by Ned. We had been sitting in the drawing-room with
all the doors and windows locked, and there were no
sweet peas in the house except the four vases in the
dining-room—which was also locked up for the night.)
On October 17, 1900, at Wimbledon, K. was entranced
rather suddenly and seemed to be going through some
very great exertion, panting and groaning and pushing
her hands together, then holding them above her head.
38 Sir- Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [PABT
and then putting them on the table. She kept saying,
"
Three, three," but we could not make out what it
referred to. At last she said, " He has gone—the Indian.
There is something on the table—you must not lose it."
We felt about and found three very small hard objects
like beads and, on examining them afterwards with a
light, we found they were three tiny unset turquoises.
It had taken a great deal of power out of both K. and
E. M. and when Herbert came to speak later he could
hardly produce any voice at all, the power was so weak.
With so much writing we naturally enquired as to the
methods used. Here is a reply.
There are two ways we influence the writing control ;
one through the hand automatically, the other by moving
the brain and impressing the words we want to put on
paper.
1. Automatic. When we write automatically, or without
influencing the medium, we get into the aura of the
person we are writing through, and direct a strong magnetic
current on the hand and pencil which we control from a
point not very far away.
When this is the case the hand moves in answer to
the direction from the other side : we do not actually
move it with our hands, but we speak and the words
are taken through this aura and guide the hand to write.
It is difficult to explain and sounds impossible, but
it is because your laws do not control on our side that
we are able to do it.
2. The Brain. The other way is when we influence the
brain. We generally do that first, before we get entire
control of the hand ; for the first thing is to get the
brain entirely under control—and you see we want it
equally under control when we write through the hand
only, but in another way.
Then we have to keep the brain perfectly quiet, to
take away all power of control from mind to hand, to
leave the muscles and hand perfectly free and imcontrolled.
But when we influence the brain, we do it word by word,
not sentence by sentence ; there is no connection between
106] Presidential Address. 39
the beginning and end of a paragraph in the mediums
mind : he simply hears a few words and puts them down,
and the words we put into the brain by speaking them
spiritually into the inner consciousness.
So you see you need not think it is yourself because
you know the words.
Here is an explanation of " raps."
When you make a circle for the purpose of communi-
cating with those on the other side, you generally join
hands and that makes a circle both in the atmospheric
conditions and also in the material magnetism ; and inside
that circle you are able to bring a kind of rarefied atmo-
sphere that enables spirits to come close. You cannot
get these conditions without making a circle for it. When
you have done this and waited a little, then gradually
you find that the raps come—and the raps, you must
remember, are not the actual hands of the spirits them-
selves, but the force that you are storing, utUized by them
to make sound with ; and as you are storing it in the
table, it is in the table the raps are heard. It is the
very greatest pleasure to those on the other side to come
when you are sitting, for it makes a kind of bond of
intelligence between the two worlds, and makes it easy
for them to speak to you.
Many of those who meet a violent death do not realize
that space is aimihilated for them as it is for all spirits ;
they think that they are obliged to stay where they aro ar.d
that they cannot get out of the place where their spirits
left the body.
And then they see a light, and that light is because
you are sitting in a circle and are willing to help and
they find they can walk towards the light, which attracts
them as a candle attracts a moth, and they come and
find you can hear them speak, and they feel that you
are in the flesh and they tell you their story and ask
you to help them to get away, and then you pray for
them. And they can meet us too when they are with
you and so gradually they get to understand where they
are and to know that they can advance and rise and
40 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Barf. [part
get beyond the material. When you have begun the
work by teaching them this, we can carry it on until
we have got them quite clear of their bodies. ,
I
I must now come to the teachings received by K., and
lisre I am tempted to quote from Professor Richet, Thirty
Years of Psychical Research, page 80. He says :
The characteristics of the literature of the unconscious-
are distinctive enough to be recognised without difficulty.
There is in the first place a marked tendency to vague
and mystical phrases on the destiny of the Soul and its
imperishable powers. These divagations of the sub-
conscious are always markedly religious, as if their purpose
was to lay down the rites and doctrines of a new religion.
They are pervaded by a love for humanity which would .
,
be touching if it were not expressed as a rhetorical and i
cloudy philanthropy. Automatic writings abhor precision,,
and shun precise indications, favouring very ordinary
commonplaces. ;
They would seem to be the work of poets ignorant of
l^rosody, of philosophers who know no philosophy, of ,
priests ignorant of theology ; all of whom make laudable
efforts to give us counsel on philosophy and precepts on
religion in poetic and nebulous language.
Professor Richet is obviously writing from a study of
such communications in the French language, and it is
curious that in the two countries a similar level seema
to have been reached. I may note here that one com-
municator who gave the name of Joh7i the Forerunner may
possibly be identified with Jean le Precurseur, whose
message is printed in a volume called La Survie, edited
by Madame Rufina Noeggerath, published in Paris, 1897.
English automatic messages also reach what I may call
a high level of mediocrity which is very rarely overpassed.
I venture to think that some of the best are in the two-
little books, Guidance from Beyond and More Guidaiice^
fro7n Beyo7id, given through K. Wingfield, published ia
1923 and 1925 by Philip Allan.
Professor Richet's conclusion that these messages come
from the subconsciousness of the medium involves an
106] Presidential Address. 41
assumption that all writing mediums are alike, as regards
their subconscious faculties.
Granting the possibility of communication, it is easier
to believe that, varied as mediums are in their intellectual
and moral level, they come in contact with a plane on
which are many intelligences of mediocre attainment,
eager to communicate what they have learnt, and too
ready to ofier partial solutions of problems which are as
much beyond their ken as beyond ours.
It is the communicator who honestly says, " I don't
know," in reply to some question of free will, or high
theology, whom one would respect and wish to hear
more from.
In regard to my own experience : having been present
when a good number of these messages were received, and
noting the varied handwritings which were characteristic
of the communicators, it is impossible to me to believe
that these are all traceable to the unconscious mind of a single
medium.
At the same time the high claims made by the com-
municators themselves, as to the lofty origin of their
teachings, make us anxious to form some theory of their
provenance.
Can the explanation be that these messages come from
intelhgences who have not lived on earth, who know oar
joys and sorrows by hearsay only, and are too ready to
offer consolation in general terms.
The toad beneath the harrow knows
Exactly where each sharp prong goes ;
The butterfly upon the road.
Preaches contentment to the toad.
There would seem to be many butterflies hovering round
the automatist.
One thing is certain. There is no revelation in the
sense of something unthought of or beyond the grasp of
human imagination.
On the contrary, no messages have attained the spiritual
vision of a St. rran9ois de Sales, or the profundity of
our great philosophers and poets, just as in science, where
42 Sir Laivrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
verification is possible, there has been no revelation
reaching beyond the discoveries of the day.
There have been many descriptions of life on Mars.
We ourselves had an example of them, written, I must
allow, contribution to a domestic magazine. But
until the telescope revealed the two small satellites and
astronomers calculated their orbits and revolutions, the
only hint of their existence was made by Dean Swift in
Gulliver's Travels. No description of Martian landscape
mentioned these striking objects hurrying across the sky.
The same is true of Jupiter's moons ; automatists only
know of the number already discovered at the date of
writing.
In addition to the general " Guides " we each had our
own personal Guide, whose names were given. Mine was
" Dominie," a quite appropriate name, as I was then
teaching my own children. My wife's was " Rayda " and
each child had one or more Guides ; who were, we were
told, liable to be changed as life went on.
I cannot say that Dominie's guidance, as expressed in
his words and messages, amounted to more than vague
predictions of good news to come and encouragement to
continue my investigations.
The statement made by Herbert in writing, ''
that there
is no human being born into the world without a guide
being appointed to look after that soul," seems quite
incredible. When one thinks of 1,500 million people,
including such varying types as a Chinese coolie, an
Andaman islander, a Tennessee Fundamentalist and a
Bolshevist executioner ; the idea of each having a Guide
immobilized beside him, without the slightest power of
influencing his reason or his pity, seems a waste of force
hardly to be expected even in an illimitable universe.
When Stead was preparing a second series of his letters
from Julia, he wrote to me and asked if there were any
subjects on which I wanted information. I replied
" Guides." But when the book came out there was
nothing about Guides.
So I have no confirmation of the real existence of
Dominie and Rayda. And yet at one time we were
106] Presidential Address. 43
spoken of as " Dominie's and Rayda's man and woman " ;
implying that they were, if anything, more real than
we were. I believe the conditions to be infinitely more
complex than we have any idea of, and that, what with
thought forms, dream forms, elementals et hoc genus omne,
the Control is not always able to distinguish between what
is there and what we are asking for ;
and, in the case
of a double personality we should not ourselves know
what we are asking for.
In December, 1900, Myers came to Valescure on his way
to Rome and had some sittings with us. Edmund Gurney
and Henry Sidgwick and others who had come through
Mrs. Thompson communicated, and Myers was greatly
cheered by the corroboration he received of messages
already given through Mrs. Thompson.
Myers was already seriously ill with an advanced form
of heart disease. And here I should like to interpolate
a warning against taking too seriously the predictions of
mediums. I well remember on this occasion going for a
walk with Myers and the turn of the road at which he
stopped and said to me : "I have four hundred and
fourteen days to live." I gazed at him in astonishment.
" Yes," he said, " my death has been definitely predicted
to me for a day in February 1902. I have made all my
arrangements on this basis. I have divided up the
^ork that still remains to do on my book into twelve
parts, and I am going to do one part each month. I
shall then finish the book and have a few weeks before
my time comes."
a fact, Myers died at Rome on January 17, 1901^
within a month of our conversation. His book, Human
Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death, was not
finished. The Epilogue, with its splendid eloquence,
hangs as it were in the air, with but few corroborative
facts to support it. The reason for this is that Myers
had intended to print in Proceedings a full report of his
sittings with Mrs. Thompson, together with a comment on
Hodgson's unfavourable report on the same medium. An
epitome of this would no doubt have appeared in the
book. But his premature death prevented this, and his
44 Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. [part
literary executors Richard Hodgson and Miss Alice Johnson
had to print the unfinished book with the lamentable
omission of most of the evidence on which Myers had
based his enthusiastic belief in Survival.
Strangely enough Hodgson himself seems also to have
been misled by some general predictions received through
Mrs. Piper, which have been printed by Mrs. Sidgwick in
Vol. XVIII. of Proceedings. The records show that a
continued and prosperous life was prophesied for Hodgson
himself. Part 2 of his Paper on Mrs. Piper never saw
the light, and it is probable that the prophecies had
encouraged him to postpone writing until he had the
whole of the evidence before him. As you will remember,
he died suddenly in 1905. So in two important instances
the literature of Psychical Research has suffered through
undue reliance on prophecy.
Another false prophecy, happily not misleading, has
been handed to me by Mrs. Sidgwick.
On March 11, 1894, at Boston, Mass., Richard Hodgson
notes that " the statement was made to me in so called
automatic writing by Mrs. Viper during trance, that
Professor Henry Sidgwick of Cambridge, England, would
die soon of heart faihire." " Soon " was interpreted as
meaning " months." Professor Sidgwick lived for six years
longer, and did not die of " heart failure."
A few words on predictions in general may be allowed
here. It is not infrequent that a sensitive gives remark-
ably accurate delineations of a sitter's past and present
surroundings.
If she goes on to predict the future, the sitter is apt
to give too much heed, forgetting that he himself is the
source whence all the information has been obtained. His
future may be visible, but too often it is his unexpressed
or even subconscious hopes and fears which colour the
prediction.
If a second sensitive is consulted and the same pre-
diction made, the sitter is more and more impressed. But
in reality there is but little true corroboration ; the sitter
brings with him his recollection of the first prediction
and this naturally colours the second. So that those
106] Presidential Address. 45
who expect such things as an inheritance or marriage
or the birth of a child on the ground that two or more
sensitives have concurred in their predictions, are building
on the sand.
Readers of Osty's Supernormal Faculties in Man will
remember his lucid analysis of " fabulations " and their
origin in the latent mental content of the sitter.
Soon after Myers' death we had various messages from
him. They contained nothing evidential. Then came
communicators with high sounding names, such as Ben-
jamin DisraeK, who criticized the then Conservative leaders
much in the style of a retired colonel at the Carlton Club.
Then various Biblical characters with a plentiful supply
of texts and nothing to say of any importance. Then
Edward Maitland, the mystic, and biographer of Anna
Kingsford. He had been a friend of the Wingfield
family and in his old age used to visit them when his
hands were doubled up with arthritis. At his first
appearance in the circle, K. rose up, doubled up her
fist and solemnly shook hands all round. My wife and
I were introduced and formally shook hands. I mention
this because some years later at my only sitting with
Mrs. Thompson, at Lady Battersea's house, while we three
were sitting chatting before the fire, Mrs. Thompson
suddenly went into trance, turned to me and in her usual
voice said :
" You know Edward." I had known various
Edwards, so replied " Yes,'' rather doubtfully : on this
Mrs. Thompson doubled up her fist and presented it to
me to shake in precisely the same mamier as K. had
done some years before. I called out " Edward Maitland !
"
But he had nothing to say of any interest.
And lastly I come to communications from our own
boy. From the first we got messages about him. and
later from him. Gradually he learnt how to communicate
through K. entranced, and at last there was hardly a
sitting in which he did not say a few words.
Looking over my notes I find but little of general
interest or in any way evidential. He is interested in
our daily life, and in the doings of his brother, especially
on the river at Eton. But on February 19, 1901, I
46 Sit' Lawrence J. Jones, Barf. [part
suddenly thought of a question. " Can you explain what
you said in your last illness ?
" The last few days of
his life he was delirious and talked much to himself. But
once when I was sitting by him, he suddenly sat up in
bed and said, in a loud voice and with much emphasis :
" The truth shall be established in thee." An unlikely
saying for a boy of fourteen. I had not the least idea
of what it could mean but had always remembered it.
On this occasion I asked him if he could explain it
and he replied : "I heard this said to me." " Yes ?
" I
said, and he went on, " Well Dada, and so it has been ;
for I have been the link to teach you the Truth. I was
ready to go then though I didn't know it, and it was
best for you that I should go. My going has brought
truth close."
The more I reflect on this prophecy uttered through
the lips of a boy—his pure and noble soul hovering on
the brink of departure—and so strangely fulfilled within
three years through the lips of another, the thinner grows
the barrier between " here " and " there," and the more
I am filled with wonder and thankfulness.
It might be thought that, after my long series of
sittings with K., I should continue my investigations with
other mediums. I did not do so except to a very slight
extent. My reason was that I felt like the housekeeper
in a great house which was to be let for the first time
to some nouveaux-riches . The housekeejDcr was asked by
a friend of mine whether she intended to stay on under
the new conditions. Her reply was :
" No indeed ! It is
not likely that anyone as 'as spent 'er 'ole life with the
Hupper Ten would condescend to the Lower Five !
"
I am afraid I felt that certainly most professional
mediums might be classed as the Lower Five. I did, as
a fact, visit some haK dozen of the mediums who ad-
vertized in Light to see whether they could show any
powers of reading my hand, or seeing anything about me
in the crystal. But I have learnt how to draw myself
into myself, and, further, not to give any indication
during the sitting as to whether their guesses were right
106] Presidential Address. 47
or wrong. The sittings were uniformly negative and
more pitiable specimens of fishing and floundering it is
hard to imagine. I have had the same experience with
amateurs, and it would really seem as though I were
refractory to psychic penetration. Be that as it may,
my conclusion is distinctly against professional mediumship
as a means of obtaining genuine communications from
the Other Side.
Investigations such as those carried on through Mrs.
Leonard and other mediums with whom our Society is
in touch, are in a different category, and I do not include
them in my criticism.
Since these days we have had Mrs. Sidgwick's exhaustive
and, if I may say so, devastating enquiry into the inde-
pendent existence of the Piper Controls.
Volume XXVIII. of Proceedings containing her paper
on the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena,
should be studied by all who are minded to investigate
trance mediumship. This should be followed by Mr.
Soal's paper in Proceedings, Vol. XXXV., on Cotnmunica-
tions through Mrs. Blanche Cooper, where, among other
strange happenings, a fictitious communicator invented by
the sitter appears to have an independent life of his own.
Add to this, the very real risk of "personation."
especially where repeated sittings take place. The original
communicator who may well have been genuine can, it
would seem, be replaced by some intelligence who has
overheard the names and amuses himself by repeating
them. Hence the common complaint that nothing fresh
comes through, only the same names and a vague word
or two being obtained.
When once assurance of Survival has been obtained, and
this may come in various ways, I would deprecate resort
to mediums.
It is better to face life, fortified by the happy assurance
that death is no final parting, than to try to repeat what
may have been intended to be given once for all.
May I conclude with a personal avowal. I cannot
pretend that to live so constantly and continuously in
communication with the Other Side, as I did for several
48 Sir Lawrence J. Jones. Bart. [part
months, does not involve severe strain ; I think it pro-
duces a sort of glamour, the viewing of all things that
here befall in their sujiposed spiritual as well as in their
earthly significance.
While the glamour lasts there is grave risk of unwisdom
in earthly affairs, of a loss of the critical faculty, of a
too ready confidence in other men, especially if they too
speak the same language and testify to the same
experiences.
Still, looking back over a quarter of a century, I am
deeply grateful for the assurance of survival and the
hopeful interpretation of the Universe which goes with it.
This has ujDheld me through many bereavements, and
enlarged my sympathy with struggling humanity.
There are many roads to faith in a spiritual Universe ;
this one is reprobated by many who have not experimented
with it, and, I must add, by some who have. One thing
is to me certain. It is better to pass on with no fixed
ideas as to what we shall find or with whom we shall
consort.
For the Universe is " infinite in an infinite number of
ways " and the wider and deeper our apprehension of
it, the grander will be its reaction upon us. It will be
the little child within us, always with open eyes wondering
at the pageant of life who will lead us at last into the
Kingdom of Heaven.
PROCEEDINGS
OF thf:
Society for Psychical Research
PART 107
THE MODUS OPERANDI OF TRANCE COMMUNICATION
ACCORDING TO DESCRIPTIONS RECEIVED
THROUGH MRS. OSBORNE LEONARD.
By C. DRAYTON THOMAS.
Editorial Note.—Most of our papers concerned with
7nediumistic communications deal mainly with the question of
the sources of such of the impressions received by mediums
and automatists as appear to be beyond their reach in the
7iormal state. The modus operandi noiv under discussion
has no direct bearing on this question. Indirectly, however,
it may throw inuch light on it, and, in any case it is ob-
viously a line of enquiry which those interested in psychical
research are bound to pursue.
Mr. Drayton Thomas's paper deals mainly tvith the rela-
tions between the different intelligences or strata of conscious-
ness concerned : with their influence upon each other, hoiv
they appear to each other, and how they communicate with
each other.''- It is hoped that this paper may be folloived Ijy
It may be useful briefly to remind the reader that in the case of
Mrs. Leonard and probably most mediums who have to do with many
different sitters, these consciousnesses are as a rule of four kinds. There
is, first, the sitter, who is certainly more than a mere passive recipient
of broadcasted messages, since in a good sitting these messages are
specially appropriate to him. Secondly, there is the medium's normal
consciousness, which is apparently in abeyance dm'ing the trance.
Thirdly, there is the control (exemplified by Feda in Mrs. Leonard's
case) who carries on communication with the sitter by means of the
medium's organism, and acts as intermediary between the communicator
and the sitter. And, lastly, there are one or more communicators
usually claiming to be deceased friends of the sitter. Communicators
sometimes dispense with an intermediarj^ and act as controls themselves.
B
50 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
co7itributions from, others who have had opportunities of
studying either Mrs. Leonard or other mediums, or loho may
have critical observations to make tending to elucidate the
subject.
It may be noted that a good deal bearing on the sub-
ject in the cases of Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Thompsoii has
already bee7i said in our Proceedings. See especially Vol.
XXVIII. on Mrs. Piper by Mrs. Henry Sidgivich and
Vol. XVIII. pp. 104 ff. on Mrs. Thompson by Mr. J. G.
Piddington. Papers on the modus operandi in mediumistic
trance by {Una) Lady Troubridge have also appeared in
Proceedings, Vol. XXXII. pp. SUff. and Vol. XXXIV.
pp. 298 ff.
Any contribution towards the understanding of trance
methods should be of interest, not only to those
who share my conclusion that we can by this
means, when employing a highly developed sensitive,
enter into communication with the discarnate, but also to
those who incline towards alternative views. For what-
ever may be the origin of the messages, it may be con-
fidently assumed that they are produced in conformity
with law, which is observable in their characteristic
imperfections, and frequent failure to make plain that
which they obscurely hint, as well as in their correct
statements about matters unknown to the sitter.
The following observations, based upon some years of
study with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, are supported by
quotations. In these we have an explanation, given by
the messages themselves, of their origin and method of
transmission.
The passages selected purport to originate with my
father and my sister Etta. In each case I have indicated
the alleged speaker. Some were given through Feda,
Mrs. Leonard's control, while others came when she seemed
to have relinquished control in favour of my father or
Etta.
It is not my present purpose to produce the evidence
which, as I consider, justifies me in assuming the identity
of the commimicators and the distinct individuality of
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 51
Feda, but rather to show how these different mentahties
contribute to an interpretation of the processes which
result in the spoken message.
Each speaker preserves intact throughout all the sittings
his or her characteristics of manner and phraseology.
This is not so clearly seen in my records, because they
are not always strictly verbatim. I make no attempt,
for example, to reproduce Feda's peculiarities of speech.
But this preservation of individuality is a marked feature
of the sittings, as also of the messages. There is no
suspicion of intermingling ; each of the three makes upon
my mind as distinct an impression as would any other
person of my acquaintance.
At the commencement of Mrs. Leonard's trance it seems
as if her individuality changes into that of another person,
namely that of Feda the control. Feda talks to me about
my communicators who are said to be somewhere in front
of the medium. Feda (as I must now term the medium)
then begins to tell me what they say, and from time to
time bends forward in the attitude of attentive listening.
She often seems puzzled as to the communicator's mean-
ing, and will question the invisible presence before com-
pleting a sentence. There have been times when a
fragmentary message contained definite evidence that my
father was aware of facts which he failed to convey to
Feda in consecutive and accurate form. On some of
these occasions I could easily guess what it was he wished
to tell me, and it seemed clear that he knew more than
he could make Feda understand. When he persisted in
trying to explain, Feda made a long circumlocution ; and
if, for sake of experiment, I put leading questions, they
only brought further proof that Feda could not under-
stand something which was clear to my father and to me.
Feda frequently gives a statement in fragments, with
repetitions and pauses, exactly as if transmitting some-
thing imperfectly heard. When names are introduced there
is usually a difficulty in pronouncing them aright, although
the initial letter is given with ease. When Feda first
alluded to my father it was as follows, " There is an
elderly man with a beard " ; then came a description,
52 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
and later in the sitting she added, " The initial J comes
with hini." I naturally asked myself why this was not
abbreviated into the simple statement that John D.
Thomas was present ? During the second sitting, while
my father's study was being described, one item was
given as follows :
Near the bureau, but above it, and easily seen when
sitting at it, is the picture of a man, elderly, with fine
face, a splendid character.
This coidd have been simply stated thus : A picture of
Wesley is above the door. Why this roundabout descrip-
tion and avoidance of names ? On many occasions names
have been correctly given without the least observable
difficulty. Yet at other times Feda will write the name
in the air, using the medium's finger to trace the letters.
Sometimes after ineffectual efforts to pronounce a name,
the first syllable is given, and Feda will then complain
that she cannot see the remaining letters, but that they
look to be, say, six in number. One forms the impres-
sion that the giving of a name, or indeed of any specific
word for which there is no alternative, involves the
overcoming of some obstacle.
It is a noteworthy fact that for a period, rarely more
than twenty minutes in any one sitting, Feda will speak
as if she were receiving from dictation. I can often at
these times catch each softly whispered sentence before
hearing it repeated in the clear Feda voice. This dicta-
tion method always reaches a high degree of accuracy,
and I realise that I am receiving, not merely the com-
municator's thoughts, but also the chai-acteristic diction.
When, however, Feda relapses into what appears to be
her own phrasing of the message the precision and
accuracy become markedly less.
Turning to the messages themselves for explanation of
these features we find it stated that the communicators
convey their meaning to Feda in the form of thought,
and that this thought of theirs may emerge in Feda's
consciousness either as hearing, as sight, or as an impres-
sion. If this ])e so, it explains at once why the " heard
"
lu7j The Modus OjJerandi of Trance Gomtnuitication. 53
messages are given with so much more crispness and
accuracy than those which are only " felt."
It will be convenient to examine the details of the
asserted process under the following heads :
I. The First Part of the Process : from Communicator
TO Control
A. Communicators' idea of how they convey messages
to Feda.
B. Feda's idea of how messages reach her.
c. Difficulties encountered.
{a) Difficulties due to Feda.
(6) Difficulties due tu the communicators.
(c) Difficulties connected with the communicator's
memory.
(d) Material prepared beforehand by communicator.
(e) Messages may be mutilated in transmission.
(/) Omissions sometimes confuse the sense of messages,
(gr) Mixed messages.
(Ii) General ideas more easily received by Feda than
specific words.
D. " The power," or mediumistic emanation.
II. The Second Part of the Process : From Control
TO Sitter.
(a) Transmission through the medium's organism, her
mind and brain.
(6) Direct control by communicator,
(c) Influence of the sitter.
{d) Miscellaneous.
I
A. Communicators' Idea op how They convey Messages
TO Feda.
Father controlling. October 14:th, 1921.
When I come to speak, Feda is frequently puzzled
as to my meaning and fails to catch it either
quickly or accurately. That is when I aru unable
to make my meaning reach her in the iorm of
54 G. Drayton Thomas. [part
words. If I then project a thought of some con-
crete object, Feda may remark " I see so-and-so,"
but though she may seem to be seeing the object,
it is really my tliought of it which has reached her.
Etta controlling. December 20th, 1921.
C. D. T. How do you give your messages to Feda ?
Etta. As a rule when I give Feda a message it goes by
thought in blocks. Say that I wish to give " I
have been in a garden at home lately." I should not
give it in bits, but in a complete thought first of
all. Suppose she then asks me to give it again ;
the first attempt is already imprinted on her mind,
but not necessarily penetrating through to that
part which is working upon the medium's brain.
It is not lost, but she may take time in getting
the thought through ; so I help by splitting up the
sentence thus : "I have been in a garden ... at
home . . . lately." This permits her to get clearly
any part which she had missed. Feda's mind
usually follows what I give, and while getting the
first and second parts of a thought she would be
mentally asking, " When ? Long ago ? Lately ?
"
and that prepares the way for me to give the
other portion of it.
Suppose I wish to say " I have seen a rose in
your study." I should show a rose, giving the
mental impression of a rose.
C. D. T. Why change the method ?
Etta. It depends upon conditions. At one jjart of a
sitting, or perhaps during one whole sitting, Feda
sees rather than hears. ExjDerienced communi-
cators find out early in the sitting which would be
the best method for the occasion.
C. U. T. Why is dumb-show sometimes employed and at other
times symbols ?
Etta. The reason is that we can give our ideas best so in
one sitting, and yet in anotlier it may prove easier
to give them in words. With some mediums it
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 55
may be necessary to give everything in symbols ;
other mediums receive it all by impression, and
this notwithstanding the fact that it is being
spoken to them. Others thmk they are seeing
clairvoyantly when they are not seeing, but are
being told. You will notice that Feda says of
someone, " He has thick hair." But if, when you
inquire about the moustache, she cannot see it,
you may infer that she is not really seeing, but
is being told about it, and yet is not able to
explain through the medium's mind or brain what
the actual method at the moment is. Feda under-
stands more than she can say, and she can get
our messages in different ways.
It is not easy to play upon two senses at once.
When passing from sight to hearing there is usually
a little gap between. For example, I might show
Feda a shilling thus ; first the head, then the date.
But she might not be sure what it was ; so I
would then make her feel hardness, from which she
could gather that it was not a picture. Next I
should give her the feeling of hardness and cold-
ness but might not be able to do both simul-
taneously. That explains why she hesitates between
fact and fact.
C. D. T. There would seem to be a considerable gulf between
you and Feda while she is controlling.
Etta. Her conscious part is then withm the medium, and
limited by the medium, because it works through
the medium's brain, a bram which is only respon-
sive to a certain class of consciousness, feeling and
sensation.
Father controlling. January Qth, 1922,
The message is first given in block form, but
if Feda does not absorb it, or if she gets only a
part of it, then the rest is given in separate
portions.
C. D. T. I find it difficult to picture a thought given in block.
50 G. Drayton Thoinas. [part
Father. Quite SO, you have the habit of S23ealving or writing
in words, but we are accustomed to think in whole.
, At least this is true of experienced communicators,
although newcomers would give their message in
words. Suppose someone were commg from Africa
to see you, I might show Feda a ship and then
the kind of land the ship started from. That is
an illustration of not giving the thought in block
form.
Father through Feda. November 24:th, 1922.
Feda may not always know by what method an
idea reaches her consciousness. For example she
will say, " I hear the name Lily," when actually a
lily has been pictured to her, or the idea of a lily
impressed on her mind. She says, " I hear,"
because she has given herself the suggestion of
hearing, and fails to realise that she has not
actually heard it. Expecting to perceive ideas as
sound, she thinks they come that way, even when
they are coming by sight.
Etta controlling. November 2'ird, 1923.
C. D. T. Do the j^ersons described really stand before Feda
and look as she depicts them, or is it that they
throw thought-pictures of themselves to her ?
Etta. Sometimes one and sometimes the other. She can
see and describe, but at other times she oidy gets
the idea. She cannot see or hear all the time
—
part of one and part of the other. She sees and
hears or she receives impressions. It seems to her
sometimes as if she actually heard our voices.
Feda is attuned more to us than you are.
Etta controlling. October 3rd, 1924.
C. D. T. When you sjjeak to Feda what is it that she hears ?
Etta. It is a thought-vibration of my words, an idea of
the words. You know that on earth jjeople can
telepath the idea of an object, say a ring, without
using words. Yet the word " ring is caught.
So do we use telejiathy ; with us it is more than
107] The Modm Operandi of Trance Communication. 57
speech, and as a rule it is more correct. Sending
actual words to Feda is more difficult than sending
ideas, but sometimes Feda gets our telepathy as
'
sound.
Etta controlling. February 20th, 1925.
C. D. T. How do you give Feda such impressions as coldness,
hardness ?
Etta. We have to appeal to her etheric sense of touch.
She would not feel it through the medium's
physical body. She can feel sad or happy, dif-
ferent states of mind, but this is another sense,
touch.
C. D. T. Have you to feel it strongly yourself ?
Etta. Yes, concentrating strongly on the sensation myself ;
often a communicator fails because not able to
transmit the feeling through lack of this. Father
has good rapport with Feda.
Father through Feda. April ilth, 1925.
If I send the thought of the letter " H " to Feda
and she fails to recognise it, I then fall back upon
another form of communication, I project with all
my power the form of the letter " H." That
camiot always be done. As a rule it is easier to
give Feda the idea of the letter. I can show
Feda a mental picture. It is much as when
hypnotisers project a mental picture which the
patient sees, as if outside himself, as a solid object.
You have heard of the Indian juggler's rope trick,
a boy climbing up an unsupported rope. The
boy is not there, but is a created picture, just as
I create the letter " H " for Feda to see. Most
mind-pictures are in the brain, but there are
a few people who can exteriorise that which is
usually in the head. It is not a myth that that
can be done, and what can be done on your
plane can be done with much greater facility on
ours.
58 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
Etta controlling. May 5th, 1925.
Feda often takes some unimportant thought from
a communicator without his desire and she will use
it to fill up and keep things moving ; for a long
spell of silence w^ould make Feda lose hold of the
medium. This accoimts for trivial matters being
brought in disconnectedly at times.
Father through Feda. May 15th, 1925.
C. D. T. In creating a thought what is the thing resulting ?
Is it actual movement in ether, or a semi-per-
manent shape which can travel through space ?
Father. It might be either, sometimes one, then sometimes
the other. Feda knows that I have shown her a
definite picture, not only a thought, and shown the
picture so that she could see its colour. It is not
always necessary for my thought to travel to her ;
it is possible for her to see a picture which I
think of ; she would reach my mind for that,
instead of my mind reaching her.
You know what symbolism is. We have a
greater jDower of symbolising thought automatically
than you have. With us, ideas can be symbolised.
C. D. T. Like a shorthand or algebra for thought !
Fathke. I should more quickly express the idea of sacrifice
by showing a cross.
As a rule Feda gets thought as a series of
thought-waves which culminate in an expressed
thought in her mind. Compare wireless trans-
mission and receiver. If one were to intercept a
message from the broadcasting it would not be
translated without the appropriate machine.
It is suggested in the above quotation that Feda's
mind can sometimes reach to, or merge with, that of the
communicator. Perhaps if we understood the telepathic
process we might better realise what this implies. Certain
hypnotic experiments furnish examples of what appears to
be a unity of sensation between experimenter and subject.
107] The Modus OjJerandi of Trance Communication. 59
Father through Feda. August 1th, 1925.
C. D. T. When Feda hears your voice are you usmg your
vocal organs ? and do you similaiiy speak with
your hps when Feda only catches your ideas ?
Father. T see your point. I am sometimes speaking with
lips when Feda thinks she gets it impressionally.
C. D. T. But j^our lips make no vibration of sound that I
can hear.
Father. No particular advantage of one method over another,
i.e. giving it to Feda with or without lip-move-
ment. But I try one method when I feel that at
the moment it will be the best method. Many of
us get into the habit of using that method, or
trying to use it, because we did so at our first
sitting, when trying to make ourselves known to
you. So many little identifications can be made
when Feda can hear the tone of voice, with facial
expressions, lip-movement, etc. So, at first, we all
try to speak in our accustomed way, so that little
points of identification may be given. If Feda
only got things impressionally she might miss
many little points which help to convince you.
(Here Feda interjected her remark :) I thuik that
is right because many people make faces when they
talk.
Your Father says, they get into habits and keep
to them. We use one method in preference to
another, not always because the power is strong
or weak, but more because of the type of power
or condition, which is effected by the medium.
It is not necessary to move the lips when speak-
ing to Feda.
Your father thinks that many sittings, especially
with normal mediums, are only helped through
impressions.
C. D. T. I should think that a less sure method.
Fathee. You may see what they are driving at, getting near
to, but they would express it differently if they
were able to hear. They onl\' sense for it and
grope.
60 G. Drayton Thoinas. [part
C. D. T. When I hear your remarks given in a faint whisper
. and then Feda immediately repeats the words with
,j
I
the medium's voice, is it that the medium's brain
;
automatically repeats what it catches from you ?
Does Feda get your voice, or thoughts, from the
medium's brain, and also get them herself direct
from you ?
Fejja. Feda often gets a sentence and says it over so
that communicators may have a chance of correcting
it, and so as not to lose it before repeating it
to you. Feda thinks the medium's brain might
get any strong or worrying thought from the sitter,
but that would make the brain hard for Feda to
work. Feda thinks the medium's brain, by itself
in this condition, is not active enough to catch
thoughts from your Father : thinks it all depends
on Feda throwing thoughts on the medium's brain.
An appropriate thought might j^op up in the
medium's brain.
B. Feda's Idea of how Messages reach Her.
I now add remarks made by Feda in which she de-
scribes, from her own point of view, how the messages
come to her.
December 22nd, 1922.
Fkda. They try any way, feeling, seeing or hearing, but
Feda finds feeling the easiest. They can suggest
hot or cold, if the object they thinli of is metal.
Much is done by suggestion. They can make Feda
feel a thing is cold or hot, exactly as if she felt
it with her fingers. You know how hypnotised
people can be made to feel like that.
January I9th, 1923.
Vkda. Feda used to make bad mistakes when they showed
symbols, because she did not understand them.
Suppose they showed her a cross, she would know
now that they meant trouble. Until they explained
what their symbols meant Feda used to get wrong
over them. It is still difficult wlien new spirits
107] The Modus Ojyerandi of Trance Communication
.
61
show them, but experienced spirits often come
• '
with them to help and show what symbols to use.
' They use them when it is too much trouble to
'' '
explain their meanmg in words ; for there are
times when Feda can see better than she can
hear them.
Feda. December 1th, 1923.
C. D. T. I asked Feda how she came to give the name
" Salisbury so easily a few sittings back. Had
she met the name at any previous sitting ?
Feda. Feda has not had that name here before. When
not trying at all Feda may get strange names
easily. When you ask for the name it makes
it difficult. Sometimes Feda can see and also
hear it, at other times only hear or else only
see. But other times when things are poor Feda
can only feel—sensing. One communicator who
had been biu-ned came here and was not able to
tell Feda that. Yet made Feda smell burning and
feel heat, but when the idea had got through in
that way, it opened other ways for communication.
Your Father says it is something like finding all
windows and doors locked except one ; on entering
the house through that one others can be unlocked
from within. They may have to walk round and
round trying one place and another first ; it is
that which gives people occasion to conclude that
they are fisliing, fumbling at it.
Through Feda. November 14th, 1924.
Feda. Your Father says there are times when Feda cannot
see him, but only hears him. He wants to point
out that when Feda cannot see him but only hears
she must have some way of locating him. Is it
not, he asks, by a light or misty substance ?
Quite right, when Feda cannot see him Feda can
see something lilvc a light near the sitter or going
away. Feda has had two or three sittings -R-ith a
person before seeing the communicator although
getting messages by feeling or hearing.
62 C. Drayton Thomas. [pakt
Do you prefer to see as well as hear and feel ?
Yes, and can do so with your Father and Etta.
But not all at once ?
Only sometimes, not often and only with experienced
communicators whom Feda knows very well. Your
Father says that possibly it is the mediums on the
other side whom Feda can best see.
Feda. ,
J^me 10th, 1925.
What ? . . . Wait. . . . Cannot hear you. . . .
It is a nuisance. I was hearing him very well
just then, but there is a vibration of voices coming
now which mixes it all uj). Can you shut the
window ?
(This break came in the midst of an interesting
passage which flowed with ease and accuracy. I
then noticed, for the first time, a sound of voices
in conversation outside the room where we were
sitting. Two persons were talking on the lawn
outside. I asked them to speak more softly and
closing the window, returned to my place. Feda
then said :)
It does not matter while your father talks
mentally, but when he speaks in voice it does
matter. Although you cannot hear his voice, it
sounds like a real voice to Feda while in the
medium, and it is more like your voice, because
Feda listens to both of them from inside the
medium. When controlling Feda hears both the
sitter's and the communicator's voices ; not always
equally well, but sometimes so.
Your father says that this is because Feda has
a double set of instruments to work with, her own
and the medium's. He thinks these machines are
occasionally interchangeable. He asks. Is it the
medium's etheric brain or Feda's brain which is
used ? Either can be used, and the same pro-
cess does not hold good even throughout one
sitting.
C. D. T.
Fed.i.
C. D. T.
Feda.
107] The Modus OjJerandi of Trance Communication. 63
c. Difficulties encountered.
Having now obtained a general idea of the asserted
processes by which Feda is made aware of the com-
municator's message, we turn to consider allusions to the
difficulties encountered.
{a) Difficulties due to Feda.
Father controlling. November 2\st, 1919.
I could not make Feda miderstand anything further
than the few particulars given through her just
before I came into control to-day.
C. D. T. Can you tell her everything after the sitting ?
Father. Yes, easily, but not Avhile she is in the medium's
brain. Then it is like throwing a magic-lantern
picture on a sheet which one camiot see, possibly
even the sheet is not there at all.
Father through Feda. March 5th, 1926.
(Immediately after a fluent description came the
following remarks.)
Fathee. It is a curious thing that I have known about this
for some time, but was unable to broach it until
now. Something which Etta has been saying
to-day made, as it were, an opening for this, the
one subject leading to the other. This difficulty
is due entirely to seance conditions. There is diffi-
culty in introducing an entirely new topic, intro-
ducing it to the medium's brain and to Feda.
I frequently prepare the ground by using words
which lead up to my subject, something akin to
it, in whatever I am talking about previously.
The difficulty lies in this intermediate condition, and
the association of ideas is all-important. However,
I am frequently able to broach an entirely new
subject and probably I find fewer difficulties than
do most communicators.
64 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
(6) Difficulties due to the communicatoes.
I am not always aware what Feda says when in
control. I am mentally following up what I am
giving and so am not always noticing what she
says. Thus I am not clear as to whether she has
given my thoughts rightly or wrongly. As when
telephoning, if a slip is made you may not realise
how it has been understood at the other end, and
not knowing that an error has occurred you cannot
rectify it.
(My father had been alluding to sittings for
direct voice and difficulty with memory there.)
Fatheb. Even here is not quite my own condition. I am
not as when I am on my own plane, not by any
means.
C. D. T. Could you not come straight here and throw your
thoughts to Feda withoiit changing 1
Father. I could do my part, but there would be no result
from it. I must make myself, for the duration of
the sitting, a part of the particular condition. It
is a slowing down to something. I am not at
my best, even when conditions are at their best.
It is a question of vibration and tuning-in. As
said before, when I find myself in the vicinity of
the power,^ i.e. in a sitting, it has what I would
call a slightly muffling, even a deadening effect on
my memory and faculties. I do not see, remember,
and feel with the same lucidity, as I do when not
communicating. I am tuning down too much.
Etta says, " It is knowing and feeling this that
makes some people feel that it is bad for us, some
idea of limitations imposed ; and they assume
therefore it must be bad. Father says, They
1 By " the power my communicator means that semi-physical emana-
tion from the medium which is said to be indispensable to trance
communication. See section d on the subject, pp. 72-78.
Father controlling. August 20th, 1920.
Father through Feda. April Uth, 1927.
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Cormmtnicafion. 65
forget that in life Me do much good worli \\hen
we do not appear at our best, we submerge many
qualities in order to concentrate on what we do
at the moment."
(c) Difficulties connected with the Communicator's
Memory.
It is stated that supreme among the embarrassments of
a sitting are those connected with memory. My com-
municators agree that while they are in their usual con-
dition, away from the medium's environment, they recol-
lect with ease whatever they wish ; but that during a
sitting it is freqiiently impossible to recall even such
things as they had especially intended to tell me.
Father through. Feda. March 26th, 1920.
I feel that I am not complete during a sitting.
I have not my whole mental power of memory
and consciousness, when returning to the spirit
world I feel like a man waking from partial sleep.
You know that if you are lying do^^'n you may
be aware of doors shutting and voices speaking,
and yet not be sufficiently conscious to notice the
details of a conversation, or to know why the
people are talking and moving about, then you
suddenly wake up to it all. That is what I feel
like ; it is as if one is half asleep here. One can
be perfectly comfortable when half asleep, but I
have not the full and perfect consciousness which
is mine in my own sphere.
C. D. T. You once said, " When I come here I feel as if I
had left the best part of my mind behind." Can
you explain that further ?
Father. I do not leave anything behind. I was wi"ong in
expressing it so. It is that my mind will not
function clearly in these conditions, it will not
operate so well. The same thing applies to you if
you try to enter our sphere while in the body. A
medium who can see us and our surroundings does
so in an imperfect way, an incomplete way, and
•
66 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
is unable to bring full powers of observation to
bear. It results from functioning in a condition
that is not one's own.
Compare it with a lamp ; take a fifty candle-
power lamp into a clear atmosphere and it shines
a certain distance. Then take it into a fog and it
shines a less distance. It is the same light
although it may look to be only a fifteen candle-
power lamp in the fog. I am like that ; I depend
upon conditions here for the effect I can produce.
Father through Feda. January 1th, 1921.
(Certain details of a test message having been
successfully given, I inquii'ed whether my father
could give any further particulars about it.)
Father. When away from here I know more about it.
C. D. T. Could you remember anything further if we spent
five minutes waiting for it ?
Father. I might or might not ; for I am now in the " under
sea " condition. Etta has, on occasion, gone away
to get remembrance of what we required, but on
returning forgot again before she could tell me.
The different conditions are baffling, but I can
remember now better than when I first commenced
communicating.
Father through Feda. June 10th, 1925.
Feda. Your father wished to say something about your
work, but cannot quite place it now. He thinks
you will learn later.
C. D. T. Does he know definitely what it was ?
Feda. He says, I know when away and in my own con-
ditions.
C. D. T. Then he does not remember now ?
Feda. No, but has the uncomfortable feeling that he ought
to know. This forgetfulness would worry some
people ; he thinks that it puzzles many com-
municators.
107] The Modus Oinramli nf Trcmce Covrmuvicafion. 67
Father and Etta throvgh Feda. August 20th, 1927.
C. D. T. Your mind is to some extent blurred and limited
while here ?
Father. I do not think that my conscious mind during a
sitting changes in itself, but that this condition in
which I find myself alters its range of activity.
Etta. Etta says, Well, suppose you have a bell, and you
ring it in an empty room. The result is beauti-
fully clear. Contrast that with what would happen
when you rang it in a room that was padded,
cushioned and had a good deal of upholstery.
Yet the bell would be the same instrument, and
its striking would be just the same ; but the
result would be different because of the different
condition in which you made it sound.
Father. Your father says that he can think of no other
sense in which he is limited except in memory,
which of course is closely allied to consciousness.
He says, I do not feel in any sense a spiritual
depreciation. He wishes to make that very
definite.
This difficulty with memory is further explained in the
extracts dealing with experiences of personal control.
They are given in the section II. (b) (see below, p. 84).
(d) Material prepared beforehand by Communicator.
My communicators say that, in view of their tendency
to forget, they make a practice of preparing a certain
amount of material beforehand. I have noticed many
indications pointing to such preparation.
Etta through Feda. November 12th, 1920.
I have recollected two different occasions of which to
tell you, and you shall choose which I give to-
day. Shall it be an experience soon after arriving
in the next world—call it a day's round there—
•
or one more recent 1
68 C. Drayfor) Thomas. [part
(I asked for tlie more recent experience. - Etta
tlien said ;) I will not forget the earlier one and
can give it later on.
(One was then given, and the other followed •
some months later.)
Father controlling. March 31st, 1922.
(My father when concluding this sitting announced
the subject on which he wished to speak next
time. He then added :) I cannot say whether it
will be possible to tell you then, for we sometimes
cannot give what we have prepared.
Father controlling. December 7th, 1923.
When I decide to bring evidence from others which
you can verify by questioning their friends on
earth, I ask them for a few things which will
serve to prove identity. They may give me
several and yet I may be able to get through only
one of them. I come prej^ared, l)ut if what I
give does not go, I drop it.
Father controlling. February 1st, 1924.
I might succeed at one time, yet fail at another.
My i>lan is to prepare a good amount of matter
before coming here, and then I try to fit it in.
If one thing does not fit, I go on quickly to
another, and I continue with that which works
until it is finished.
(e) Messages may be mutilated in Transmission.
Often while listening to Feda one notices that she
seems unable to catch some idea in its entirety. She will
say, " Wait . . . Feda did not get that . . . What ? . . .
Wait a minute." Many of the messages contain internal
evidence tliat some portion has been omitted, or mutilated
in transmission.
Here are some of Feda's remarks about this :
August 4th, 1922.
Feda. (Referring to my father.) I think he wants Peda to
understand something which he knows but cannot
quite get through to Feda.
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. GO
C. D. T. Can he not tell you plainly in words ?
FedA. He could tell Feda, but Feda caiuiot hear.
C. D. T. How is that ?
Feda. Feda can hear part, and part not, is able to hear
some of it to-day but not all of it.
He used to refrain from trying a thing if it
:
"
were difficult to get through, but now he tries
because it is interesting. People often wonder why
there seem to be such extraordinary gaps in a
sitting, -not natural sequences. A communicator
has to break off and leave out something which he
knows it would be hopeless, or risky, to try and
get through. So that often a sitting seems dis-
jointed, fragmentary. He now feels the risk less
and so risks it when he comes to such a pohit.
- September 19th, 1924.
Feda. (After a somewhat confused sentence.) Feda thinks
she has not got his idea quite right, she heard
some of his words as he spoke them, but could
not get the impression quite. When he gives
Avords, and follows them up with an impression,
then Feda knows it is right.
Jmie loth, 1925.
Feda. (Addressing the communicator.) I camiot get that
... try agaui . . . (turning to me). Do you know
there are times when I really hear him, and yet get
only muddled sounds, not properly formed sounds.
He says it again, and if it does not get clearer he
has to show it, or get it through in some other way.
He does not always know when he has failed to
make Feda hear, and goes on with it. Then, if
asked to repeat, he may not know what part Feda
has not heard, and then there is a muddle of
mistakes. He says there is a good deal to learn
about it still.
(/) Omissions sometimes confuse the Sense of
Messages.
The omission of important parts of a message easily
reduces it to confusion. Feda is aware of gaps in her
70 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
transmission, although she does not always mention them
at the time. It is particularly unfortunate when she fails
to notice that a fresh topic has been begun ;
for, by
running on with the new subject as if it continued the
previous one, she risks making the whole appear untrue.
I recall how, during my first sitting, facts which correctly
related to a second person were given as if applying to
one who had just before been described. The result was
that, at the time, I regarded this section of the sitting
as inaccurate, and only on examining it afterwards did
the merging of two distinct descriptions, both of them
minutely correct, become apparent.
December 6th, 1917.
Feda. Teda cannot hear all he says all the time. Isn't it
a nuisance ? Have to catch parts, like when many
things are thrown at you and you catch what you
can. Feda rarely hears all that is said.
August 21st, 1925..
Your father says that he may be unable to continue
the present topic next time.
But camiot he plainly tell you it is coming ?
He might plainly tell me, but I might not catch it.
At nearly every sitting there is something which
Feda knows she has not caught. It is like losing
something and not being able to pick it up agam.
Communicators seem unable to repeat, or else it is
that Feda can't catch the rejjetition.
(g) Mixed Messages.
In the following extract Feda refers to a further possible
cause of confusion.
November Mth, 1924.
Feda. After a sitting is over Feda sometimes finds that
there has been someone present who did not get
into the i)ower,^ although they had tried to do so.
But although they did not get ui themselves, some
of their thoughts became mixed up with those of
the comnuniicator. This often happens when more
^ For explanatioa of the power," see pp. 72-78.
Feda.
C. D. T.
Feda.
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 71
than one spirit person is present and when the
communicator is not well known to Feda. It is
not always easy to know who is giving the mes-
sages. There is not, however, much fear of con-
fusing what your father says with anything said
by someone who is outside the circle of power.
{h) General Ideas more easily received by Feda than
SPECIFIC Words.
It would appear that Feda easily receives from the
communicator anything in the nature of a general idea,
but that specific words or names present a difficulty with
which she often fails to deal satisfactorily.
Father through Feda. May 1th, 1920.
(My father had made numerous allusions to his
father, but had failed to state either the name or
the relationship. I remarked that we both under-
stood clearly who was being spoken of, but that
I should like him to say definitely whom he had
in mind.)
Fathek. To put anything in a specific form is most difficult
of aU.
C. D. T. Why so ?
Father. I have to dodge a machine. You see there is the
medium's brain, and Feda manipulating that brain,
and I have to dodge both. I find I get things
through most easily when I take Feda ofi her
guard, when she is not looking for a word or
name. You remember how easily names have
suddenly come through. When there is a great
effort and Feda is aware that I am trying, she
holds the brain in a strained condition. Suppose
you are about to play a game, or something of
that kind, say to shoot at a target ; if you know
you must hit the bull's-eye or not make the
attempt, you will have less chance of success than
if you think it does not matter whether you do
it or not. Anyone anxiously waiting to see you
hit the bull's-eye makes for you a shghtly strained
72 C. Drayton Thomas. [i'ART
condition, this strained condition is not with me,
but with Feda.
Feda. October 15th, 1920.
(Somethmg is in course of being described, but
Feda stumbles and is in difficulty over it.)
Feda. Feda sees and feels it, but does not hear.
C. 1). T. Cannot they make their words plain to you ?
Feda. When they concentrate on one thing, and one thing
only, it becomes hard. While talk flows it is
easy, but when it comes to one thing, or one word,
and no other will do then we stick fast. When
speakuig fails they show something, or try to make
Feda feel.
Father controlling. September 3rd, 1920.
(During the early part of this sitting Feda had
been unsuccessful in giving the name of my father's
old colleague, Benjamin Browne, although I had
clearly recognised that he was the person alluded to,
both from the description and the name, Benjamin,
which came through. We spent some time over
it, and I even went so far as to ask Feda whether
the name required was not that of a colour, but
Feda Avas unable to put it through. When my
father was controlling he remarked :)
Fathek. You must wonder what is doing when you ask for
a simple name like Browne and I cannot give it.
C. D. T. Was Browne the name you wanted Feda to say
earlier in the sitting ?
Father. Yes, and so I got it here. I dropped the attempt
till I could introduce it mj^self.
Father controlling. Sejitember 1st, 1922.
There are times during my speaking through Feda
when I could not tell you that something had
happened "to-day," nor should I be able to say
the word " yesterday."
D. " The Power," or Mediumistic Emanation.
It is a feature of these sittings that the class of
material which is at one time given quite easily, at
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 73
another time seems to present an obstacle to efiEective
transmission. It would seem that the medium's recep-
tivity is variable, that her brain and mind are not always
equally responsive. One asserted cause of this is fre-
quently mentioned ; Feda terms it " the power." There
is some evidence for the existence of this, and it would
seem to be an emanation which plays an important part
in heightening the sensitivity of the medium's brain. It
is to variations in the amount, consistency, or other con-
dition of this emanation that my communicators attribute
much of their difficulty in communicating.
Rightly or wrongly Feda and my communicators regard
" the power " as something existing in space. I will
briefly record their view by summarising statements given
in reply to my requests for information. Thus :
Medium and sitter are surrounded by a cloud of this
power. Anything within this area is visible to Feda ;
but should a communicator remain outside it he would
be invisible to her, and she could only with some diffi-
culty obtain information from him by " sensing." Upon
his entering the zone or sphere of influence, Feda would
be able to see and hear him.
This quasi-physical cloud emanates from the medium,
and the sitter may contribute some small amount. Al-
though usually visible to both control and communicator,
the latter can, by passing out of it and then re-entering,
feel its influence as a slight tingling.
Its presence or absence is inferred by results :
If no medium were present we should feel a lack of
something after a few moments' attempt to control ; that
is how we do feel with a poor medium.
The cloud of emanation is kept fresh and living by a
continued flow from the source. When this flow ceases,
a sitting automatically ends. Nothing then remains to be
re-absorbed by the medium.
During a sitting this cloud of emanation will become
dissipated if allowed to grow inert. Activity is essential. A
long silence, or a pronounced lack of sympathy in the sitter,
would act detrimentally upon it and induce evaporation.
I
74 G. Drayton Thomas. [part
When the emanation is ebbing, it may be made to
flow freely again by the discreet introduction of a mental
incentive. A sitter should try to combine with his
mental passivity an alertness which can throw living
interest into the sitting at appropriate moments, thus
keeping the tide of emanation fresh and full until it has
been used to the end.
The emanation varies in quality even with the same
medium, and still more so between different trance-mediums ;
while that produced by mediums in sittings for physical
phenomena is of a denser kind. All people possess it,
but with the great majority it is not available : medium-
ship is the condition which frees this emanation for use.
It is sometimes set free by emotional shock, but more
often by a course of psychical development.
In physical mediumship, where the output of emanation
is considerable, any disturbance which causes a sudden
indrawing of this etheric matter may have injurious effects
upon the medium.
So far my communicators.
On one occasion a scientifically-minded acquaintance
spoke with me a few months after his passing. He
remarked with interest upon something which he described
as smoke curling around my wife who sat between the
medium and the window. Feda once spoke of being able
to just see a bar of light coming to her from the com-
municators, and moving from one to the other as they
took turn in speaking to her. I can only assume that
these two descriptions were founded upon a partial glimpse
of something upon the border-line of visibility.
Assuming the existence of this emanation, one asks
what function it fulfils 1 My communicators say that,
inter alia, it heightens the sensitivity of the medium's
brain, and thus renders it better able to receive the
thoughts which are to be transmitted.
Sometimes a new and unjDractised communicator is des-
cribed as wandering out of the sphere of this emanation
and thereby checking communication. When I took a
widower anonymously to a Leonard sitting, he sat some
distance away from the medium. Feda presently remarked
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 75
that his wife, who had. begun to speak, had gone to
him and was now too far away for Feda to keep in
easy touch with her. Communication from that
distance seemed to be checked. I have noticed that
with new communicators Feda begs them to come nearer
to her.
Feda's memory is, as a rule, remarkably retentive, yet it
becomes so weakened at the close of a sitting that she can-
not recall details of a subject discussed at the beginning
of the same sitting, and she complains that there is not
sufficient power to enable her to " think back."
I once asked Feda to tell me by whom this loss of
power was felt at the end of a sitting. She replied that
not only did she feel it herself, but that the communi-
cator would feel that there was nothing linking him to
her, or enabling him to know if she were catching his
thoughts.
When, at the end of his twelfth attempt at personally
controlling the medium, my father remarked that the
power was failing, I persisted in questioning him for
another ten minutes. Although he continued to reply the
voice became rapidly weaker, finally ending in a faint
whisper. On another such occasion he concluded, "It is
no use trying further, I cannot keep it up . . . power
gone." Etta ended her first attempt at personal control
by remarking, " I cannot explain further now, there is no
more power." Both have repeatedly described their feel-
ings at this stage of a sitting. The following are selections
from their remarks :
1. "It is as if the brain were tired out and it is no use
struggling with it."
2. "I can neither think nor remember so well now as
earher."
3. " My thoughts wander and I have no grasjj."
4. "I cannot think weU now, it seems more effort, as
when one is sleepy and trying to remember some-
thing. It is a very strange sensation."
5. "I cannot collect my thoughts so well. There are
many things I want to talk about. I almost forget
... it seems to me that I have forgotten."
7G C. Drayton Thomas. [part
6. " As the power goes I feel as if sinking down lower into
the medium, a curious feeling."
7. "I know, but am not going to reply to that question
now. I know, but fear the right reply will be
rejected. It is like having a small keyboard when
you have to play a note beyond its compass. I
am not so afraid at the start of controlling, but now
there comes a stupid feeling, one cannot quite con-
centrate ; it is like when one is a little tired, but
without the tired feeling."
8. " I must stop now, or I shall say something silly."
9. " The power is going fast. When I lose power I begin
to feel sleepy and thoughts only come stupidly and
di'owsily."
Having experienced the effects of lessening power, not
only as communicators, but also as controls, my father
and sister became able to understand Feda's difficulties
more clearly than would have been otherwise possible.
Apropos of this one of them remarked :
April 2Slh, 1922.
I feel my thoughts wandering. We notice this when
the power goes while we control. When we were speak-
ing through Feda, and it happened, we thought that she
was getting stupid. Now we know what it is. There
seems to begin a real waking of the medium's mind, an
independent movement, and so we get mixed up with
things in her mind. The two being mingled it distorts
my messages.
They both agree that it is ixnsafe to start topics of
importance at the end of a sitting. Occasionally, after
my father has intimated failure of power, his attention
has been attracted by Etta ; he has then succeeded in
ascertaining her meaning, yet failed to get it spoken in
anything stronger than the faintest whispers. At one
such time he wished to say, as I was perfectly aware,
the letter " P," but he could only speak thus :
May nth, 1923.
The letter is not one at the beginning of the alphabet,
but far on, one easily mistaken for the letter
107] The Modus Opprandi of Trance Commnnicaliov . 11
" B," which was given in error. I must ask Etta,
M'lio can only give me signs ; for I camiot hear
•
'
. her now at this lapse of joower. ... It is the
lower part of that " B " that is wrong. That
sounds absiu-d, I know, but we have to get it in
one way w^hen we cannot in another.
Etta says : ^
October 3rd, 1924.
When we are within this Sphere of Influence we
are not in our own condition, but in a fog,
mentally as well as physically, and cannot re-
member so well. While I am within it I might
not be able to see father though he were standing
only two feet outside it. The emanation fluctuates
like wind on windy days, when you may hear a
rush and it dies down again, before gathering force
and blowing up once more. Our trouble is that
we cannot tell when it is ebbing, and so waste
time trying to get something on when it is ebbing
which could only be done when its tide is full.
My conimunicators insist that sitters should refrain from
holding in mind any dominant thought, or persistently
demanding some j)articular name, for such mental tension
on the part of a sitter is said to attract the emanation
towards himself and away from both communicator and
control, thus rendering their task more difficult.
My father says : 3Iarch 20th, 1925.
I have noticed occasionally, when some question
has been put by the sitter, that a communicator
has receded and appeared to lose grasp, yet a
little later he returns suddenly and is able, in
some instances, to supply the correct answer to
the question. What has happened is that he has
withdra'wn himself from within the emanation in
order to try and remember the fact asked for,
and yet it would appear as if the control were
still obtaining information from him.
(Here Feda interposed with the remark :) Feda
. . : knows that - sometimes, though she cannot com-
78 C. Drayf on Thomas. [part
mimicate well with people outside it, yet she is
able to get easy things from them.
January lOth, 1919.
Feda. At times he can get through a difficult thing, while
at other times, even an easy one is impossible.
He has to throw words to Feda, while she throws
them magic-lantern fashion upon the medium's
mind. Then, too, if he wakes Feda's curiosity she
holds the brain tight, and that fixes him. We
can get through one minute what we cannot do
at another time. The power lying over the brain
is never still, all is changing.
II. From Control to Sitter.
(a) Transmission through the Medium's Organism, her
Mind and Brain.
We now pass to the next step in the process of trans-
mitting a message. It would appear that, on becoming
aware of the thought to be transmitted, Feda operates
upon the medium's brain. One says " brain " for short,
but I think it certain that the medium's mind is still to
some degree alert. It is upon this brain and mind that
Feda works, imj)ressing it to action by her thought and
will. Feda tells me that it is not always easy to exert
this influence successfully ; that it is essential to ensure
that the message is " taken," otherwise it may, to use
her own phrase, " drop out of the medium " instead of
being voiced.
January 7th, 1921.
(While transmitting details of a newspaper test,
Feda said :)
Feda. Very close to that is a name " E," it looks like
Edward, yes, I am sure it is Edward, but I said
" E " because of not being sure that I could get
the name Edward through correctly.
Here it would seem that Feda had received the name
from the communicator (and subsequently verification
proved its correctness), but doubted her ability to get it
expressed by the medium's lips. Feda frequently mentions
107] The Mbdtis OperanrJi of Trance Communication. 79
only the initial letter of names, yet it by no means
follows that she has failed to catch the complete name
correctly. To ensure its being spoken is a real difficulty.
Etta controlling. February 3rd, 1922.
Is it not strange that I cannot say my husband's
name ? I can feel it but camiot say it ; that is,
I cannot get it spoken. I get it on the surface
but cannot get it into the medium's mind. I am
aware of it myself without being able to get it
spoken.
February 9th, 1923.
Feda. Feda pictiu-es something and wills it and that sets
the medium's mind going. Suppose I wished to
give the picture of an apple, it would be necessary
to think strongly of an apple, make a pictiu-e of
it and put it on her mind. Feda tries to jump
on the right part of the medium's brain, but often
fumbles, it is like touching the wrong string.
(Here I asked Feda how she found the right
spot on the brain. She replied :)
Feda. When Feda has got a picture of the apple it feels
like holding it up above the medium's brain. Feda
feels it as if it were being drawn to a right place,
attracted to a right part, but it has to be held
tUl it is attracted there. Feda wriggles it about
until she feels that it connects, that it is taken
up ; but all that is done with the mmd, not with
hands. Feda thinks of the brain as something
alive with sense in it. It is a little like a game
in the dark when someone has to catch what you
are holding. Feda pushes it towards one part,
then towards another part, until it is taken.
(My sister interposed at this point to explain
that this shiftmg-process did not necessarily mean
movement from place to place, but a changing of
the idea of the apple. Feda then continued :)
At last it feels like something sucking it in, like
- taking in a breath. All that does not take as
long as it sounds in describing. Whole sentences
so C. Drayion Thomas. -
[part
can be done quickly .sometimes. The best flow of
words is wlien long ideas are being worked out ;
that kind of talk is much easier than giving some
specific thing like apple or orange. It would be
more difficult to say " An apple on your jjlate
this morning," than to give a long philosophical
disquisition, or analysis of character.
May nth, 1923.
Feda. (While transmitting for my father :) A picture of
your Mother suddenly jumped in this. I did not
wait to ask your father what he meant by it, lest
what I wished to say should drop out of the
medium. Things sort of spill over if I do not
keep them fixed on her brain. If I wait to ask
anything, then what I am holding there may
run out.
Here I add further remarks on this subject, in which
my communicators try to explain the process. Having
themselves controlled the medium they speak from
exjierience.
Father through Feda. November Wth, 1921.
Fed A. Your father says that he refrains from saying many
things which he wishes to give lest they should
come through in a distorted form. Feda feels that
also ; for she does not always make the medium's
voice speak as intended. Feda touches something
which wakes the medium's mind and then it goes
off on its own account.
C. D. T. Feda, can you hear the words spoken by the medium ?
Feda. Yes, but cannot stop her speaking if what she says
is wrong. Often Feda cannot get the power to
check the words.
Your father says that over-pressure taps the sub-
conscious mind of the medium and then something
escapes before Feda can stop it. Even after hear-
ing those escapes and inaccuracies, Feda cannot always
so control the medium's mind as to put things right.
As each thought is given it is fixed on the co-
operative mind which is created partly by the
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 81
medium and partly by Feda. Once it is registered
there a counter-suggestion is not easily put
through. Your father says that Feda thinks she
works directly upon the medium's brain, but he does
not consider that this is entirely accurate. He
says that Feda really works upon the medium's
mind-essence which, in its turn, works the brain.
This mind-essence belongs to the medium's organ-
ism. To take a simUe ; Feda puts a match to
the gas, this gas is not Feda's, but its light might
be termed hers, and she can regulate it. Feda
has produced a quite wonderful manifestation
which draws its supply from the medium. That
may explain why Feda is occasionally less brilliant
than at other times ; if it were Feda's own gas
it would always be equal, but being the medium's,
it varies. Yes, your father is sure that Feda is
wrong in thmking that she works the medium's
brain. It is the mind in the brain which Feda
works. In the case of a trance or controlled medium,
that part of the mind which is quiescent is not so
likely to reproduce impressions itself as is the mind
of a normal medium.
Feda gives to the medium's mind and that mind
then works the brain. Feda telepaths on to the
medium's mind, much as the communicators tele-
path to Feda, but the operation is so instantaneous
that Feda can scarcely realise in detail what is
happening.
C. D. T. Feda, did you find the medium's brain respond to
your efforts as easily when you first learnt to
control, as it does now ?
Feda. No, it was dreadfully difficult then. Your father
says. That bears out my assertion ; for Feda was
then working upon the medium's mind, and foimd
it difficult work owing to lack of practice and
experience. But had Feda been working direct
upon the brain, the trouble caused by the confused
mental conditions of an undeveloped medium would
not have arisen.
D
82 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
Etta controlling. April 27th, 1923.
C. D. T. Do you remember a birthday ?
Etta. I spoke of it at a recent sitting.
C. D. T. Can you say whose it is ?
Etta. I remember, but cannot say it, cannot get it spoken.
The more I try to think it on, the less I can get
it on. I am expressing myself in a particular way,
and it is the medium's power of expression which
I cannot control. One can get a word in the
mind and yet not be able to express it.
C. D. T. Does her brain automatically express the thought put
into it ?
Etta. Because it is in the mind it does not follow that her
brain will take it. Unless the things in mind are
tapped on to the actual brain one cannot express
them. Like a t3^pewriter, when you think your
words, but unless you tap the right key, you will
not get the letters. You can put your finger on
the right key, but unless you tap it there is no
expression. The brain takes, or does not take,
from the mind. The brain is like a keyboard,
automatically responsive to us, but often respond-
ing in a wrong way ; we wish to press keys and
put expression through, but if we try too much for
a certain word, the keys get stiff with—apprehen-
sion. When in painting you stiffen muscles which
you should not, then anxiety makes it still worse
—and so with words. When I cannot get them
I pretend to forget and thus relieve the tension and
the "key" then relapses into its ordinary condition.
Sometimes, a little while afterwards it will come out,
just as when Father first spoke to you of me.
One might not be able to say one's own name.
C. D. T. Can you say yours now ?
Etta. Etta, but possibly if a sitter here with you were to
ask it I might not get it that time, but might say
" Raw." ^ Strange, but it is the human instru-
ment which makes it so difficult. If only a
' Raw was her married name.
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 83
mechanical one could be made ! But mind is the
bridge between the spirit and the physical.
Etta controlling. August ^\st, 1923.
C. D. T. Are you aware what words are spoken by the
medium's lips while in control ?
Etta. I know what the words are afterwards, but they slip
through before I realise. I know after, but cannot
pull them back if wrong.
C. D. T. Does the medium's brain colour the expression of her
thoughts to an appreciable extent ?
Etta. Yes, if it is more natural for a medium to put them
in a certain way, then, although I might give
them in my way, yet they would go through in
hers. If she were fond of the word " extra-
ordinary '
and I of " extremely " hers would be
given, rather than mine ; that does not always
matter. I think I feel that less than most people
would, that it happens less often. I knew so
much more about this when here than did many
communicators
.
In passing through it might be moulded into
something with almost a different meaning. Not
so with me, for I feel what things might be
coloured and so refrain from giving them in a way
which affords the chance of being coloured. We
have to contend with Feda's mind and personality
as well as the medium's. Owing to Feda's practice
in helping thmgs through the medium, it is easier
to get things through ; she can manipulate the
i
medium's mind better than we can, and yet she
herseK is a difficulty. If I wish to speak to you
of two things, one very pretty and the other
iminteresting to Feda, it would be more difficult
to get the latter owmg to her preference for the
former.
Father through Feda. April llth, 1926.
C. D. T. Does Feda ever find that your thought has reached
the medium's mind direct ? Or must it always go
to Feda first ?
84 C Drayton Thomas. [part
Father. Feda might find a thought in the medium's brain
and understand that I have thrown it there ; she
would then cause it to be spoken. But Feda
usually knows what I send to her own mind, and
she then impresses it on the medium's brain. I
think Feda succeeds in doing it either way.
C. D. T. But would not the medium's brain automatically
cause the thought to be spoken if catching it before
it reached Feda ?
Father. No, consider how, during sleep, your mind holds
pictures, images, thoughts. Does your tongue
therefore sjaeak them ? Certainly not, although the
images may be as vivid as a waking experience.
Feda can manage it either way. She often catches
what I say before she puts it through ; but the
whole operation is either instantaneous, or nearly
so. She would scarcely be able to say which
came first.
(Feda here added, on her own account, that
while controlling she does not actually know
whether she gets the thoughts from the communi-
cator, or from the medium's brain. But what she
does know most certainly is that she often fails to
get something which she ought to get.)
(b) Direct Control by Communicator.
Up to this point we have examined Feda's control.
Let us now see what is said to happen when my father
or my sister, taking Feda's place, transmit their thoughts
direct to the medium.
It seems that forgetfulness is still a limitation ; much
knowledge which they are aware of possessing is no longer
within reach. They say, " One of our greatest difficulties
when controlling is our divided memory." Their condition
would seem to correspond to that, so familiar to ourselves,
when we fail to recall a name. We are aware that we
know it, and that we would recognise it if we heard it
spoken. We may even succeed in recalling it by some
line of association, but all direct efforts are futile.
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 85
It is said that during personal control there are several
matters demanding simultaneous attention ; there is the
care of the medium's organism, and the necessity of
observing what will " take " and what fails to take. xJjThe
controller must also endeavour to mark what is actually
spoken, and to avoid starting a flow of words which would
misrepresent his meaning. When such a flow is once
started it may be difficult to check, and practical^
impossible to follow it up with a contradiction or explana-
tion.
My sister says that she does not know the exact moment
at which she gains effective control of the medium's
organism. This probably explains why one hears Feda
whispering in apparent conversation with the communi-
cators before the sitting actually begins.
It has been my fortunate experience to watch the
progress of two controls, namely my father and my sister,
from the day when they first became such by dispensing
with Feda's help and spoke to me directly thi'ough Mrs.
Leonard's^ lips.
Father controlling. June \4:th, 1920.
(When commencing his control the voice was
much famter than usual. He began thus :)
Father. Feda has not left me much power to-day. She
stayed a long time. I have lost my bearings
coming like this. There is something I wished to
say. I have forgotten it while gettiug into control,
but had it in my mind previously. When I
control a portion of my mind is left outside. I
am using the medium's brain by throwing my
thoughts upon it, throwing thoughts one by one
on to it, and am unable to think quickly of one
thing after another as I normally do.
Father controlling. August ISth, 1920.
C. D. T. When controlling do you will your thought in the
same way as we in the physical body do, when
we will to speak and our bram does the rest ?
Fatheb. Remember that my will and this good woman's
brain are not coimected ; the method is the same
86 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
but with a difference in the willing. Sometimes
I throw a thought on her brain and it remains
inactive, so I leave it there while speaking of other
subjects. Presently I may notice that the latent
thought begins to stimulate her brain into action,
and then I at once drop the second subject and
revert to the first which can now be carried on.
There is some analogy with your trying to remember
something which eludes you, and, after you cease
to try, it suddenly appears in your mind later and
you can take it up and go on with it. It seems
as if the less one tries, the more easily does the
brain take up the thought. Hence I usually give
up trying when failing to get my theme through,
however much I may desire it, and do not waste
time attempting to force it.
C. D. T. Do you think that you could give, through Feda,
any statement which she or the medium strongly
objected to ?
Father. I do not thmk it would be difficult to do that.
Etta controlling, October \st, 1920.
(On the occasion of this my sister's first control
I had no warning that she was about to make
the attempt. But I noticed that the change of
control was taking a much longer time than usual,
and when the voice commenced it was slow and
faint.)
Etta. I am trying . . . not father. I shaU do it. I want
to. Can you hear better now ? I shall speak
more distinctly soon. S—S—S—S (the sibilants
were clear and prolonged). I cannot manage her
breath. I shall soon do it. Yes, now I think it
it is better . . . when I speak like that. I do not
make the whistlmg sound. I wish to speak clearly,
distinctly and well. I am so glad to be able to
speak. I shall do it in time.
(Etta continued in control for twenty-nine
mmutes, and towards the end of that time was
speaking somewhat easily. She succeeded in pro-
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 87
nouncing several relevant names, although failing
to give others for which she was evidentlj^ trying.
A few weeks later Etta controlled for the second
time. Among other things she said :)
I want to practice names of people. I want to
remember the sound of words while controlling and
to make the lips sound, to give her brain the
names and make her lips say them. But it is
difficult to think, I fail to connect up my ideas.
Even now I have a strong consciousness of having
been often with you, but I find no detailed recol-
lection of the things we have done. Do not tell
me anything ; I wish to practice remembering.
(During Etta's fifth time of controlling she suc-
ceeded in describing with accuracy a young officer
who had recently died, and she transmitted several
messages from him for his father. These messages
were rich in evidential items and convinced the
father of his son's identity.
Etta said that she was doing her best to give
as much as possible, but added :)
The extraordinary thing about it is that, although
he told me so much, I am now unable to recall
it all. But later, when away from here, I shall
remember everything.
Father through Feda. November Wth, 1921.
Feda. Your father says he knows the intricacies of con-
trolling, not only by observing Feda, but through
doing it himself. He brings only a part of his
intelligence into the medium's mind. All your
mind is not in, or acting upon, your brain at one
and the same time. You have your conscious and
your subconscious mind. His mind also develops
a conscious and subconscious section when he
comes here, and in controlling he is sure that he
works only a small detached part of his mind
within the medium's mind. The part left outside
the medium's mind forms, for the moment, his.
88 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
subconscious mind, but he is still in touch with
it, just as you are in touch with your subconscious
mind.
C. D. T. Is subconscious knowledge available while in control ?
Feda. No, when you wish to recall what your conscious
mind has lost you try to obtain it from the sub-
conscious. Very often he tries to do this while
controlling, but it is more difficult for him than
for you, because a smaller proportion of his mind
is operating in the medium. In her brain there
is some of her own mind, and also some of his ;
while in your brain there is only your own mind.
In controlling it is, what may be termed, a co-
ojjerative mmd. You see therefore why he cannot,
while controlling, think so clearly, or remember so
much, as you can.
Father controlling. December 9th, 1921.
(During his controlling my father suddenly
remarked :)
Something makes me want to cough.
(The medium then coughed and cleared her
throat.)
When I think suddenly it gives the organism a
jerk and I cannot control the breath properly
until I cough.
(Later he was checked in his attempt to explain
something further, and proceeded :) I cannot make
her say it, although I know quite well what it is
I wish to tell you.
Etta controlling. December 20th, 1921.
You remember how father described the con-
scious and subconscious division of his mind. The
conscious is the lesser, because the brain holds but
a small portion of the mind. When we passed
over they both united. Now upon coming into
control that division resumes, because the mind has
once more to work through a finite body. We
control with the conscious, the subconscious is not
within easy reach meanwhile. We bring in as
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 89
mucli of our mind as we can, but the situation for
us is something like having to turn from a full-
compass piano to perform for a time upon one
having but a single octave of notes.
Father controlling. January 6fh, 1922.
(On coming to a dead stop in the midst of his
remarks, he said :)
I cannot remember. It is extraordinary. Some-
times I cannot say the word required but now my
difficulty is that I cannot remember it.
Etta controlling. March llth, 1922.
(Etta had difficulty in remembering certain
details, and I asked, " Is the difficulty with you
or the medium ? ")
Etta. I know it now, this thing you want. It is as if my
mind were in two parts, one part opening into the
medium's mind and the other shut off from her.
Sometimes I can let a thought from one part pass
into the other : at other times I am not aware,
while here, that there is a second part. Father
has said that at some sittings he could not have
given his name if you had asked him.
C. D. T. Would practice obviate the difficulty ?
Etta. I think that always some degree of difficulty must
remain.
C. D. T. Does Feda still feel that difficulty ?
Etta. Yes, from many things she has told me. I gather
that she knows much more than she can get
through.
C. D. T. How does trance compare with other methods of
communication ?
Etta. We might be more limited in other ways. The
table might give one word containing a clue, but
it is much more difficult through the table or
other mechanical means, to remember things which
are not mentally present in the sitter's mind also.
But at these sittings we find it easier to give what
is not known to you or other sitters. But at a
table it is difficult to give what is not known to you.
90 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
Now, here, your remembering does not help me
because I have another mind to work through,
quite independently of yours. Here, your mind
does not help me to remember. You know that
what you have in your mind might even prevent
us speaking of it. At a table there is no mind
to prevent us getting a thing from you. It is
very much easier for us to get things from you
when we are in your condition, than to remember
them for ourselves. We can reinforce our memories
through yours. It is that which gives rise to a
feeling with some people that the table only reflects
what one thinks. It is not really that, but results
from its being easier to get that which the sitter
at the table knows.
C. D. T. You can give unknown things through the table ?
Etta. Yes, but it is more difficult.
Etta controlling. October 31st, 1924.
C. D. T. Do you see by the medium's eyes now ?
Etta. I see nothing.
C. D. T. Like being in the dark ?
Etta. Yes, but occasionally in the midst of the darkness
I have seen Father, who has made some sign to
me, but only occasionally. I cannot see you at
all now. I think I am not quite in one condition
or the other.
C. D. T. Teda has alluded to using the medium's sense of sight.
Etta. I think it may be done, but not to order.
C. D. T. Have you no sight as a rule when controlling ?
Etta. Just SO. I think that if I try to exercise the sense
of sight or soimd I might lose control.
C. D. T. But you hear me ?
Etta. Yes, but I mean if I were to use my sense to hear
Father. To hear you I use the medium's sense
of sound, not my own. Should I use my own I
should immediately think myself into my own body
again completely, and so weaken my control.
C. D. T. Is your body more or less over the medium's ?
Etta. Yes, just merging into hers.
107] The Modus Opei'ancli of Trance Communication. 91
Etta controlling.
1. March 19th, 1926.
(Etta was endeavouring to give me a message
which had been entrusted to her.)
Etta. I knew it and felt sure of it, and now it is gone
from me. I wish it would come back. It is
extraordinary. You would not believe one could
lose a thought like this.
C. D. T. Is it like forgetting one's dream ?
Etta. Yes, it is ; because you do not experience dreams in
the body. Similarly I did not hear this message
when in the body of the medium, a body which is
not mine at all.
(c) Influence of the Sitter.
There are reasons for thinking that the sitter is a
factor making for success or failure. In taking notes for
several first-time sitters I have been struck by the wide
differences in result. I notice that a stolid unresponsive-
ness militates against success, much as it would check
conversation in social life. Feda speaks of " deaf and
dumb " sitters ! I have occasionally received good evi-
dence from a communicator who was a stranger to me,
yet later, when his friends came to share my sitting, the
evidence given was inferior. Such instances indicate that
differences of result may not depend entirely upon the
communicator and medium.
Besides the influence of manner and mental attitude,
I think we have to reckon with a psychical difference in
sitters. The presence of certain people seems more or less
to inhibit communication.
I may also allude to the use and abuse of questions.
There is good reason for believing that indiscreet ques-
tioning, or the ardent desire for some particular name or
subject, interferes seriously with the requisite mental
condition of a sitting.
Etta controlling. January IQth, 1923.
It is difficult to explain, but the expectation by you
of some particular thing seems to impinge on some
92 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
very delicate thought-fabric which we are weaving,
and spoils it, so that we cannot gather together
its threads in order. They become knotted up.
So the advice is, go on keeping passive, and do
not thinly of any particular person or thing ; that
will prevent your thought impinging on ours.
Everything to do with our thought is much more
delicate and subtle than yours, therefore our
thought should impinge on yours and not vice
versa. Father says that it would not be wise to
rub canvas upon the paints, it has to be done the
other way round.
About difificulties in communication ;
people forget
that it is not their plane where all this takes place.
The difficulty is in speaking from one plane to
another. We can pour down our own material far
more easily than we can pour down the particular
material you may wish for. If we wish and think
of it first, it does not matter about your wishing,
but if you wish and question before we have
prepared the mould, it is very difficult for us,
because we have already prepared a different
mould. The book and newspaper tests were com-
paratively easy to give because you could not
mentally influence what we were transmitting.
The thmgs we give voluntarily are usually the best.
We Imow what . we can give, but when asked to
supplement it, in response to questions, we have to
conform to your conditions. It is like having to
pour our thoughts into moulds which you prepare
and which are not our moulds. It is difficult to
explain but, as a rule, it is best that you should
take what we can give. As you are aware, we
can often tell you things far more difficult than
those which you ask. In using the term " moulds "
I mean a form of words and selection of thoughts.
Etta through Feda. December 1th, 1923.
Father controlling. Febricary 1st, 1924.
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Commimication. 93
Some friends of mine had occasionally taken their
daughter Joyce to share their sittings with Mrs. Leonard.
My sister Etta was interested in Joyce's approaching
marriage and had referred to her in a recent sitting.
One day (April 11th, 1924), while on my way to Mrs.
Leonard's house in Hertfordshire, I saw Joyce in the train
and travelled with her. The incident then passed out of
my thought until Etta, during Feda's control, made a
very definite statement that I had just seen someone in
whom both she and I were interested. She proceeded to
elaborate until there needed only the addition of the name
Joyce to complete the evidence of her knowledge of our
meeting that morning. I therefore pressed for the name,
and when Etta said that this was beyond her power, I
enquired where the difficulty lay. " Partly in you and
partly in Feda," she answered. " Then if I thought of
something else, say the moon," I asked, " would it make
a better chance of your giving the name ?
" Etta said,
" Do so, and I'll try later on to give it." So I put it
from my mind, and waited to write notes of whatever
might come next ; and these words were then slowly
spoken : " / hope it will help Joyce."
Father controlling. April llth, 1924.
It is easier for us to read your miad when away
from here than it would be dm-ing a sitting. It
is supposed by some that a medium reads the
mind of a sitter ; but one has only to experiment
to discover how difficult it is for us to answer
questions. We can sail along giving details quite
unknown to you ; but if you suddenly ask a
simple question which comes into your mind, it
. presents a difficulty to us. Now if we were read-
ing your mind there would not be that difficulty.
During a sitting we are bent on keepuig intact
the link between ourselves and the control ; but
if we lost it through giving too much attention to
you, it would be difficult to regain. It is as a
thread which will stretch a little, but if taken
round you as well as the medium it would break.
94 C. Drayton Thomas. [PABT
A question often breaks the thread of our thought
and we have to drop the topic. We can often
create another, and substitute it for the other
quite quickly. We do not mind your asking ques-
tions because we know that, if we do not take
them up, you will understand that there was a
reason. But some sitters would feel distressed and
disappointed, which makes it hard for their com-
municator. Our feeling of absolute ease with you
makes it possible for us to do our best. We know
you will not be distressed if we cannot do what
you ask at some particular moment.
Through Feda. February 20th. 1925.
C. D. T. Feda, how do you distinguish between thoughts com-
ing from the communicator, and those in the
sitter's mind ?
Feda. It is a different feeling altogether, very different.
I have trained myself to lean towards the com-
municator and to shut off the sitter. I do not
like sitters to be in front of the medium, hut like
to have the communicator in front. I concentrate
on just that place and so shut off other places.
Your father says, " Even that would not prevent
Feda getting a thought and not knowmg it was
from the sitter, if the latter happened to be willing
something very strongly. A sitter might will his
thought fifty times and miss, but Feda might
accidentally take it the fifty-first time."
C. D. T. And would not Feda realise from whom it came ?
Father. Not unless she were very careful and on the watch
for interference.
(Feda then confided to me an experience which
related to a strong-minded lady, who held certain
ideas so firmly as to make it impossible for her
husband, who was communicating, to state the con-
trary. He ceased communicating to save un-
avoidable misunderstandings.
She continued :)
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 95
FedA. Feda is careful not to start with the sitter's thoughts.
Feda thinks she would know if a sitter's thoughts
came in, but your father says, " That is not
infallibly so, especially if the sitter has a strong
way of forcing thought."
Father controlling. April \4:th, 1927.
We never know when coming here that our prepared
material will be available. Some of the best we
have given had not been prepared. Conversation
with us may fit in and give ground upon which
we can base what we can give. Those whom Feda
terms " deaf and dumb sitters " are unlikely to
provide good groundwork. Sitters should talk with
us in an ordinary manner without giving away
information. Such talk helps us. When first I
came here I used to give plentiful evidence of
identity, you did not give things away, but you
use to talk of the pleasure it gave you and so on.
{d) Miscellaneous.
The following passages are of interest although not
falling into any of the foregoing divisions of the subject.
January 20th, 1921.
Fbda. Your Father says they have difficulty in remembering
when in the mental condition, what they have said
when in the physical condition, and vice versa.
That accounts for what happens, when at direct
voice sittings he tries to say something which he
had said here in his mental condition. You have
noticed he can scarcely give any indication of it.
Trance-speakmg necessitates mental condition, a
direct voice sitting needs a physical condition.
Therefore one will not get the same quality of
communication at both. It is so difficult to carry
through from one condition to another which is
different.
This is a suitable place in which to mention a remark-
able physical phenomenon which is occasionally noticed
96 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
momentarily during a Leonard sitting. I can only term
it " the direct voice," because it exactly resembles the
vocalisation heard in direct-voice sittings with mediums
who specialise in that phenomenon. At such sittings the
voices are sometimes heard at a considerable distance from
the medium and do not (as has been repeatedly demon-
strated by the use of apparatus) issue directly from the
medium's lips. The manner in which those voices are
produced is still a matter about which little is known.
Now there are times in Mrs. Leonard's sittings when
the communicator, while transmitting messages through
Feda, will sviddenly speak a few words in the direct voice.
I have frequently heard my father do this. Many of
IMrs. Leonard's sitters have noticed the same thing. My
father tells me that it seems to him that the speaking of
a few words in this manner is made possible by the
emanation being, for a brief interval, sufficiently dense to
form a covering for the vocal organs of his etheric body.
He adds that he is not able to produce this direct voice
at will, but only under very favourable conditions; be-
cause this emanation with Mrs. Leonard is much less
concentrated than that which is present in direct-voice
sittings. This explanation bears no resemblance to the
tentative hypothesis by which I had been inclined to
explain direct-voice phenomena. But it is interesting as
suggesting a close relation between the emanation at
trance sittings and that which makes possible the various
psychical phenomena usually termed physical.
In the above quotation we seem to have an explana-
tion of the fact, so frequently noticed, that it is rare to
get good mental phenomena during sittmgs where there
are several physical phenomena. There are exceptions,
especially with powerful mediums, but it is the rule that
evidential messages are scarce in those direct-voice sittings
where lights and levitations are plentiful.
Father through Feda. October 21th, 1922.
Etta has been doing a good deal of work in con-
junction with a band who are helping circles, and
also independent would-be mediums, to free them-
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 97
selves from what we can only call " imaginary
controls and guides " and to find out their real
guides. Etta has foimd out that many such
guides have to masquerade under other names
than their own because the mediums have made
up their minds that such-and-such a name must
be the one. Many work under the assumed name
rather than lose opportunity of working at all.
That is especially the case when famous names are
given and the individuality at the back shows very
little of the knowledge which would be possessed
by those supposed to be controlling.
Fathsb. When I talk easily I notice it is in the forehead of
the medium, not in the brain, but just above the
eyes in front. When I lose sense of being just
there, I find it is not so easy to express myself.
C. D. T. Do you try different places ?
Father. I would not call it that. I might try in a way but
find myseK drawn to different parts of the head.
To-day I feel I am just here. (Hand touches
above the root of the nose, and above the eyes.)
C. D. T. Do you mean at the root of the nose ?
Father. That or higher. It seems a sensitive spot.
(Reference to lavender in room.) Feda can smell it
through the medium's nose, and Etta can smell it
also, although not controlling. Etta says that she
might not be able to smell lavender if you and
the medium were not present. (The perfume was
quite perceptible in the room, a bunch of lavender
having been placed on the piano.)
A Minister slightly known to me was brought to one
of my sittings not long after his passing. My father,
who had known him well, was said to have invited him
to attend. The remarks by this visitor upon the new
life were highly interesting. Presently he alluded to the
sitting.
Father controlling. September Uth, 1923.
Feda controlling. August 22nd, 1924.
98 C. Drayton Thomas. [PAJBT
Through Feda. March 6th, 1925.
Your father is now doing his best to make me
famUiar with this condition which I will term the
between-state. I see quite clearly at this moment
that we are in, what I would like to call, a
between-state. We are not, strictly speaking, on
either bank, but on a bridge, a bridge which is
more of your making than ours. Not that we do
not wish to make it, but, unfortunately, in many
ways, the bridge must be built from your side.
I think that, as you buUd, and as your side of
the bridge reaches closer to our bank, our thoughts
help you considerably, but the material is yours,
I see that now.
Etta says, I feel extraordinarily close to you to-day,
perhaps because of the day ;
^ I remember previous
sittings close to the day, yet think I never felt
so near to you as yesterday and now.
We have to be rather careful at sittings not to
feel too near. I will explain. Sometimes when
we come to a sitting we feel so conscious of joy
in the contact, such a sense of personal joy and
pleasure, that we don't always do as well in the
sitting if we yield to it. Because we are inwardly
registering sometimes when we should exteriorise
and send out to you, making ourselves known to
you exteriorly.
(I don't understand that, Mrs. Etta, said Feda.)
You know how inarticulate on earth a keen
realisation makes one ; so with us when in a
sitting sometimes. So we find it best to keep to
business, to express ourselves to you ; then after
the sitting we can be hajjpy, rather than revel in
feelings during the sitting itself. Self-control is
needed. In some people's sittings with personal
control there is much emotion manifested and
nothing else.
1 It was the anniversary of her death in 1920.
Through Feda. April 1st, 1927.
107] The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication. 99
Through Feda. April Uth, 1927.
FedA. It is SO difficult to carry through their thoughts
Irom one condition to a different condition.
C. D. T. Can you explain the difference between those two
conditions ?
Father. You know the conditions here. Should I wish to
materialise for a voice sitting I use a material,
one more of your earth than of my own plane,
a physical substance. Should I materialise a hand
to touch you with, I use a physical substance, a
foreign condition, another life for the time being.
I must identify myself with the quality and
condition of the material, make myself part of it.
It is not my own material, probably the medium's,
whoever's mentality is the controUmg one, and may
become—or I may have to make it become—a part
of myself, or I of it, pro tern. If conditions are
excellent I can use my own mentality to a great
extent. Yet even then submerging it to a certain
extent to suit the quality of the material.
When conditions are bad, despite the power there,
then my mentality may be much overweighted by
some one else's mentality. And I should have to
conform to the habits, quaUties, limitations of that
mentality. Are there not records of educated men
speaking imgrammaticaUy in physical sittings ? Or
speaking with a foreign accent according to the
mentality overshadowing ? We know it is so.
Often in physical sittings we have had to identify
ourselves with, not only a physical condition and
physical material, but also to be submerged in
others' mentaUties.
To a slight extent we feel this in trance sittings.
We do not use the coarse substance here, but the
mental. To borrow their physical substance one
has to borrow also their mentality, it is almost
impossible to disentangle the two.
(Feda here teUs of a medium who thought the
sitter's brother would have brown eyes like the
sitter. That led to their being described as
100 C. Drayton Thomas. [part
brown, whereas they should have been called blue.
Consequently the sitter was upset.)
Feda. Your father says, We have to conform to the men-
tality of the medium in every kind of sittiag.
She is a between-condition.
To bring memory from a physical sitting to a
mental one is difficult. For we have been too
much submerged to remember afterwards what we
did. It is difficult to bring thoughts from a
mental to a physical sitting ; we can remember aU
we require of the mental sitting, yet at the physical
sitting the submerging process throws it out again,
and then we have to give whatever is suggested to
us, what we can recall in that condition.
Although this paper does not touch upon every pheno-
menon of trance communication, I hope it may at least
serve as a contribution towards a working hypothesis of
the type of sitting usually obtained with Mrs. Osborne
Leonard.
I conclude with my sister's remarks on the general
subject
:
Through Feda. November 14th, 1924.
Etta says that it seems to her that no one yet
understands the unique character of a sitting. . . .
It is a no-man's-land between the two conditions,
yours and ours. It is considered that communica-
tion concerns earth people and spirit people,
whereas there is also the peculiar bridgeway which
has to be used and which belongs neither to one
nor to the other, yet has some of the character-
istics of each. Here lies all the difficulty. Medium
and sitter are in part working in a condition which
is not entirely theirs, and we work in one which
is not entirely om"s. It is a pooling of resotu-ces
which creates the bridge. One gets out of one's
depth sometimes on both sides.
107] Review. 101
REVIEW.
Problems in Psycho-Pathology. By T. W. Mitchell.
The title of this volume is not weU chosen, but that is
perhaps the only fault to be found in this excellent little book.
For the book is a very clear and simplified exposition of the
psychology of Prof. Sigmund Freud, for the general reader the
best of all the many that have appeared. But though as an
exposition of this very difficult and complicated doctrine for
the layman the work is of a very high order, those who
esteem Dr. Mitchell as an original thinker and an independent
investigator in the field of abnormal psychology wUl regret that
he has not thought fit to give play to his critical faculty in
this volume. Such a reader asks himself at many points
—
Does Dr. Mitchell accept^ and endorse all this, as established
truth, as working hypothesis, or as interesting and stimulating
speculation ? And in the end he is left wondering whether
Dr Mitchell must now be reckoned among those who have
fallen under the magic spell of Freud and have become un-
critical disciples of that great pioneer. It may be hoped that
this is not the case and that Dr. Mitchell wiU follow up the
present volume with another addressed to a more professional
circle, in which he will imdertake the task of examining in
an impartial spirit the more serious of the criticisms that have
been directed against the Freudian system. None of those
who have become whole-hearted disciples of Freud seems capable
of undertaking a reasoned reply to criticisms, even in the role
of declared advocates of the system. They seem to be too
impatient, if not contemptuous, of all criticism. Yet if, as they
believe, the Freudian psychology is fundamentally sotmd, it
must be capable of withstanding, of rebutting, and even of
f)rofittng by honest criticism. The meeting of such criticism
in the open, in the scientific rather than in the sectarian spirit,
is much needed. For lack of it there is danger that the
Freudian system, which, as some of us believe, is an intimate
blend of important truth and serious error, may long remain
apart, detached from the main stream of scientific advance, in
a position comparable to that of various metaphysical and
esoteric doctrines, accepted by a select band, but without
serious influence upon the main stream of thought of our
western civilization. W. McDougall.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 1 08
LIBRARY CATALOGUE
(SUPPLEMENT 1927-1928)
COMPILED BY
V
THEODORE BESTERMAN
HONORARY LIBRARIAN
PREFACE
The present first supplementary catalogue describes the books,
etc., acquired (]irincipally out of the Carnegie grant) fluring
July 1927-June 1928, together with a good many items omitted
for one reason or another from the general catalogue published
in December 1927.
Since that date the re-organization has been completed, npw
bookcases haviiig been installed in the remaining part of the
Library. It has thus become possible to give the books per-
manent press-marks. These are shown in two interleaved
copies of the Catalogue kept in the Library, and they are
printed in the present Supplement. These press-marks (as
:
22 b 6)» consist of the number of the book-case or press (22),
the shelf in that case (b), and the number of the book on the
shelf (6). A number in brackets after the number of the
book, as: 6 i 32 (9), indicates that the item looked for is, in
the example given, the ninth one bound up in the volume.
The i^refix R shows that the book is for Reference in the
Library only, on application to the official in charge. The
pamphlets in the uniformly bound collection of Tracts (at
present consisting of 92 volumes, containing over a thousand
items) have the following press-marks, in each case followed by
the number of the volume in the series (as : RBi 3) :
Alrutz, Sydney - - RSA
Anthropology, History RAH
Apparitions - - - RA
Bibliography - - RBi
Biograjihy - - - RB
Crookes, Sir William - RC
Death, Survival - - RDS
Dowsing - - - RDo
Dreams - - - RD
Hallucinations - - RH
Hypnotism - - - RHy
Philosophy - - - RPh
Psychical Research - RPR
Psychoanalysis - - RPA
Psychology - - - RP
Reichenbach - - RR
Spiritualism - - RS
Supernormal Healing - RSH
Swedenborg - - RSw
Telejaathy, Clairvoyance RTC
Theosophy - -' - RTh
Quarto Tracts - - RT
Folio Tracts - RF
104 Preface
This collection of Tracts is bound in the following colours,
the same plan being followed for all current binding in the
general Lilji'aiy :
Psychical Research ------ Green
Hyjmotism -------- Blue
Psychology, Philosojihy ----- Red
S]iiritualism ------- Black
Aiithropology, Magic, Mysticism - - - - Olive
Biogi'aj^hy, Miscellaneous ----- Brown
The books are arranged on the shelves by subject, and
within the subjects chronologically, as follows :
Anthropology ----- 22 d-f
Biography ------ 8 c-f
Healing, Supernormal - - - - 21 g
Hypnotism ------ 15-16
Magic and Occultism - - - - 21 a-d
Miscellaneous ----- 17
Mysticism 22 a-b
Occult and kindred movements :
Andrew Jackson Da\'is - - 7 a-b
Swedenborg - - - . 7 c-d
Theosophy ----- 7 f-g
Miscellaneous - - - - 7 e, h
Philosophy ------ 26 .
Psychical Research :
Standard works - - - - 4 d
The S.P.R. 4 e-g
"~
General ----- 5 c-e
Hauntings, Apparitions - - 5 a
MediumshijD and specific mediums 5 a-b
Mental phenomena - - - 6 f-g . .
'
Physical ])henomena - - - 5 f-g
Survival ----- o
Psychology
:
General ----- 9
Abnormal and thera]ieutic - - 10 c-e
Animal psychology - - . 3 a
Dreams ----- 3 c-d
Hallucinations, Illusions - - 3 a
Mind-body problems - . . 3 b
Multiple personality - - . 1 g
Psychoanalysis - - - - 10 f-h
Subconsciousness - - - - 1 g
Spiritualism 23-24
Tracts, old and other works for Reference
only Rll-12, R19-20,
R21 h-i, R22 h-1
Witchcraft - - - - - - 21 e-f
Th. B.
PABT I
PERIODICAL, SERIAL, SOCIETY
AND
OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS
American Journal of Psychology, Index of Volumes I-XXX. Edited
by Karl M. Dallenbach. 8vo, pp. 200. Utica, New York 1926.
[2 f]
American Psychological Association : Committee on the Standardiz-
ing of Procedure in Experimental Tests, Report. 8vo, pp. iii.
107, 5 diagrams. The Psycliological Monographs (xiii. 1 : 53) :
Lancaster and Baltimore, December 1910. [25 a 13 (1)]
[With a bibliography.]
R. S. Woodworth and F. L. Wells, Association
Tests. 8vo, pp. iii. 85, 2 plates (1 in colours). The Psycho-
logical Monographs (xiii. 5 : 57) : Princeton, Baltimore and
Lancaster, December 1911. [25 a 13 (5)]
: Committee on the Teaching of Psychology, Report. 8vo,
pp. 93. The Psychological Review : Psychological Monographs
(xii. 4: 51): Lancaster and Baltimore, April 1910. [25 a 12 (4)]
Archivos Argentines de Neurologia. Edited by Manuel Balado.
Svo, vol. i (no. 1, etc.). Buenos Aires 1927, in progress. [3 i]
Beitxage zur Geschichte der neueren Mystik und Magie. Svo. Leipzig.
[17 g 1-4]
1. H. Freimark, Geheimlehre und Geheimwissenschaft. pp. 146.
1913.
2. H. Freimark, Mediumistische Kunst. pp. 136, 15 ill. (2 in
colours). 1914.
3. A. Hellwig, Gesundheten. pp. 49. 1914.
4. H. Silberer, Durch Tod zum Leben. pp. 58. 1915.
British College of Psychic Science, Ltd., Quarterly Transactions.
Edited by F. Bligh Bond [vols, i-v (no. 2) ;
Stanley De Brath,
vol. V (no. 3), etc.]. 8vo, vol. 1, etc. London 1922, in progress.
[R 18 h]
[Lacking vols, i (no. 2), ii (nos. 1, 4), iii (nos. 1-3), iv (no. 2).]
British Spiritual Telegraph, The. See Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph,
The, continued as The British Spiritual Telegraph.
105
lOG Society for Psychical Research [part
Catholic University of America Studies in Psychology. See Psycho-
logical Review, The : IMonograi^h Supplements.
Conseil de Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique, Bulletin. 8vo,
vol. i (no. 1), ii (no. 1), iii. Bruxelles 1925, in 'progress.
Echo de I'lnvisible, L'. Revue Spiritualiste Mensuelle. Folio, vol.
XV (no. 7-9). Paris, July-September 1927. [RF 4-8]
Federacion Espirita Espaiiola, La Luz del Porvenir. Edited by
Salvador Vendrell Xucla. 4to, vol. xvi (no. 183). Barcelona,
March 1928. [RT 3 (14)]
Genetic Studies of Genius. 8vo. Stanford University, California.
[9h 5-6]
Vol. i. L. M. Terman and others. Mental and Physical Traits
of a Thousand Gifted Children. jDp. xiii. 648, numerous
diagrams and tables. Second edition. 1926.
Vol. ii. C. M. Cox and others. The Early Mental Traits of Three
Hundred Geniuses, pp. xxiii. 842, 1 ill. and numerous
diagrams and tables. 1926.
Gesellschaft fur Experimental-Psychologic zu Berlin, Schriften. 8vo.
Leipzig. [13h6(5)]
Stuck I. K. Kiesewetter, Zur Geschichte des modernen Occultis-
mus. pp. 20. December 1888.
Stiick IV. A. von Bentivegni, Die Hypnose und ihre Civilrecht-
liche Bedeutung. pp. vi. 66. 1890.
Gesellschaft fiir psychische Forschung zu Riga, Seelen-Probleme.
8vo, no. 1, etc. Riga 1927, in progress.
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens. Einzel-Darstellungen fiir
Cebildete aller Stande. Im Vereine mit hervorragende Fach-
mannern des In- und Auslandes herausgegeben von L. Loewen-
feld and H. Kurella [nos. 1-41 ; L. Loewenfeld, nos. 42-113;
Kretschmer, nos. 114, etc.']. 8vo. Wiesbaden 1900-1920;
Miinchentmd Wiesbaden 1920-1922; Miinchen 1923-1927. [R20f]
[No more published.]
54. T. Lessing, Der Ldrm. pp. v. 94. 1908.
56. C. V. Ehrenfels, Sexualethik. pp. iv. 99. 1908.
57. L. Loewenfeld, Homosexualitat und Strafgesetz. pp. 35.
1908.
58. O. Bumke, Landldufige Irrtumer i?i der Beurteilung von
Geisteskranken. pp. 80. 1908.
59. J. Sadger, Konrad Ferdinand Meyer, pp. iii. 64. 1908.
60. Ct. Vorberg, Guy de Maupassants Krankheit. pp. iii. 28.
1908.
61. N. Kotik, Die Emanation der psychophysischen Energie.
p. vii. 130. 1908.
62. L. Waldstein, Das unterbewusste Ich. pp. v. 71. 190?*
63. A. Pilcz, Die Verstimmungszustdnde. pp. 44. 1909.
Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 107
64. C. Birnbaum, t)her Psychopathische PersdnlichJceiten. pp.
iv. 88. 1909.
65. W. Stekel, DicJdung und Neurose. pp. vi. 73. 1909.
66. H. Freimark, Tolstoj als Charakter. pp. 33. 1909.
67. E. Strausky, Uber die Dementia praecox. pp. v. 46. 1909.
68. O. Bumke, Vber die Korperlichen Begleiterscheinungen
psychischer Vorgdnge. pp. 16. 1909.
69. R. A. Hoffmann, Kant und Swedenborg. pp. iv. 29. 1909.
70. J. Sadger, Heinrich von Kleist. pp. 63. 1910.
71. O. Feis, Studien uber die Genealogie wid Psychologie der
Musiker. pp. 97. 1910.
[A classified list of nos. 1-70 is jDi-efixed to this part.]
72. T^l.Schultze, Diejugendlichen Verbrecher. pp. iv. 74. 1910.
73. H. Kurella, Cesare Lombroso. pp. 90, portrait. 1910.
74. A. Forel, Abstinenz oder Mdssigkeit ? pp. 21. 1910.
75. A. Moll, Berilhmte Homosexuelle. pp. iv. 80. 1910.
76. L. Sadee, Vom deutschen Plutarch, pp. v. 91. 1911.
77. J. Bayerthal, Erblichkeit und Erziehung. pp. viii. 80.
1911.
78. E. Jentsch, Musik und Nerven. II. Das musikalischc
GefiUil. pp. vi. 95. 1911.
[Continued from v. 29.]
79. K. Birnbanm, Die krankhafte Willensschwache. pp. iii. 75.
1911.
80. O. Hinrichsen, Zur Psychologie und Psychopathologie dcs
Dichters. pp. iii. 95. 1911.
81. O. Feis, Hector Berlioz, pp. iii. 28. 1911.
82. M. Friedmann, Uber die Psychologie der Eifersucht. pp. vii.
112. 1911.
83. W. Strohmayer, Psychiatrisch-genealogische Untersuchung
der Abstamrnimg Konig Litdivigs II und Ottos I vo?i
Bayern. pp. iii. 68. 1912.
84. E. Trommer, Das Problem des Schlafes. pp. iii. 89, 13
diagrams. 1912.
85. O. Hinriclison, Sexualitdt und Dichtung. pp. v. 81. 1912.
86. K. Goldstein, Die Halluzination. pp. iii. 72. 1912.
87. K. Heilbronner, Vber Gewohuung auf normalen und patho-
logischen Gebiete. pp. v. 51. 1912.
88. H. Kurella, Die Intellektuellen unci die Gesellschaft. pp. vii.
124. 1913.
89. L. Loewenfeld, Bewusstsein und psychisches Geschehen.
pp. vi. 94. 1913.
90. E. Jentsch, Das Pathologische bei Otto Ludwig. pp. vi. 72,
portrait. 1913.
91. H. Freimark, Robespierre, pp. iii. 91. 1913.
108 Society for Psychical Research [part
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens
—
92. V. Franz, Der Lebensprozess der Nervenelemente. pp. v.
58, 28 ill. 1913.
93. O. Rank and H. Sachs, Die Bedeutung der Psychoanalyse
fiir die Geisterwissenschaften. pp. v. 111. 1913.
94. W. V. Bechterew, Das Verbrechertum im Lichte der objek-
tiven Psychologic, pp. ii. 53. 1914.
95. O. Klieneberger, Ubcr Pubertal und Psychopathic, jap. iii.
59. 1914.
96. B. Berliner, Der Evnfluss von Klinia, Wetter und Jahreszeit
auf das Nerven- und Seelenleben. pp. v. 56. 1914.
97. B. Lacquer, Eugenik und Dysgenik. pp. v. 62, 8 portraits
and diagrams (1 in colours). 1914.
98. W. Strolimayer, Das manisch-depressivc Irresein. jjp. v.
69, 5 diagrams. 1914.
99. E. Strausky, Ubcr krankhaftc Ideen. pp. v. 53. 1914.
100. L. Loewenfeld, Ubcr den National-Charakter der Franzosen.
pp. vii. 42. 1914.
101. L. Loewenfeld, Die Suggestion in ihrer Bedeutung fiir den
Weltkrieg. pp. 54. 1917.
102. E. Strausky, Krieg und Geistesstorung. pp. 77. 1918.
103. K. Birnbaum, Psychische Verursachung Seelischer Storungcn.
pp. vi. 77. 1918.
104. S. Meyer, Die Zukunft der Mcnschheit. pp. 58. 1918.
105. M. Friedmann, Ubcr die Natur der Zwangsvorstcllungen.
pp. 102. 1920.
106. R. Tischner, tJber Telepathic und Hellsehen. pp. v. 125, 4
plates. 1920.
107. H. Freimark, Die Revolution ale psychische Massen-
Erscheinung. pp. vi. 110. 1920.
108. W. Jacobi, Die Ekstase der Alt-Tcstamentlichen Propheten.
pp. iv. 62. 1920.
109. R. Tischner, Einfilhrung in den Okkultismus und tipiritis-
mus. pp. viii. 142, 4 ill. 1921.
110. W. Bohn, Die Psychologic und Ethik des Buddhismus.
pp. ix. 76. 1921.
111. A. Storch, August Strindberg. pp. iv. 76. 1921.
112. A. Siehler, Die Theosophie (Anthroposophie) iyi psycho-
logischcn Beurteilung. pp. 45, 1921.
113. A.F.Meyer, Materialisatio7ie7iU7id Telcplastie. pp.62. 1922.
114. W. Jacobi, Die Stigmatisierten. pp. iv. 57. 1923.
115. H. Hoffmann, Ubcr Tcmperaments-Vererbung. pp. iv. 68,
11 diagrams. 1923.
116. K. Birnbaum, Grundzuge der Kulturpsychopathologie.
pp. vh. 70. 1924.
117. A. Heidenhain, J. J. Rousseau. j^P- vi. 84. 1924.
108] .
Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 109
118. H. Rust, Das Zungenreden. pp. vi. 74. 1924.
119. H. V. Hentig, t) her den Cdsarenwahnsinn. pp. 52. 1924.
120. R. Tischner, Fernfiihlen und Mesmerismxis. pp. vii. 42.
1925.
121. G. R. Heyer, Das kdrperlich-seelische Zusammenwirken.
pp. viii. 65. 1925.
122. W. Strohmayer, XJber die Darstelliiti.g psychisch abnormer und
geisteskranker Charaktere auf der Biihne. pp.23. 1925.
12.3. S. Zurukzoglu, Biologische Prohlevie der Eassenhygiene und
die Kulturv olker. pp. viii. 184. 1925.
124. E. Mezger, Persdnlichkeit und strafrechtliche Zurechnung.
pp. 42. 1926.
125. W. Riese, Vincent van Gogh in der Kraiikheit. pp. 38,
6 ill. 1926.
126. H. Stieve, Unfruchtbarkeit als Folge umiaturlicher Lebens-
weise. pp. 52, 20 ill. 1926.
127. — Raecke, Der Querulantenwahn. pp. 84. 1926.
128-130. J. H. Leuba, Die Psychologie der religioser Mystik. pp.
X. 260. 1927.
Johns Hopkins Studies in Philosophy and Psychology, The. See
Psychological Keview, The, Monograph Supplements.
: iStudios from the Johns Hopkins Psychological Laboratory.
See Psychological Review, The, Psychological Monographs.
Journal of Mental Science, The. (Published by Authority of the
]Medico -Psychological Association). Edited by D. Hack Tuke
and Geo. H. Savage. 8vo, vols. 27-48. London 1881-1902.
[2 a]
[Lacking vols, xxvii (nos. 1, 2, 4), xxviii-xxx, xxxi (nos. 1-3),
xxxiii (no. 1), xxxiv (nos. 3, 4), xxxv (nos. 3, 4), xxxviii (no. 4),
xlviii (nos. 2-4).]
Libraire Ancienne et Moderne Emile Nourry, Le Bibliophile es Sciences
Psychiques. Catalogue. 8vo, no. 32 [etc.]. Paris, October
1927, in progress. [R 27 f]
Luz del Porvenir, La. See Federacion Espirita Espanola, La Luz del
Porvenir.
Medium, The. A Journal devoted to Mediumship. Edited by
Horace S. Hambling. 8vo, vol. i (no. 1). Beckenham, Sept-
ember 1926. [13h9(5)]
[No more published.]
National Laboratory of Psychical Research, The. The British
Journal of Psychical Research. 8vo, vol. i, etc. London 1926,
in progress. [6 i]
Proceedings. 8vo, vol. i (Part 1). London, January 1927.
[No more published.]
11*^* Society for Psychical Research- [part
" Nouveaux Horizons," Les. See Societe Alchimique de France, Les
" Nouveaux Horizons."
Ohio State University Psychological Studies, ^'ee Psychological
Review, The : Psychological Monographs.
Okkulte Welt, Die. [Edited by Hans Freimark.] 8vo, Berlin
[Nos. 1-6, 8-10, 20, 172-174; Pfullingen, nos. 7, 11-19, 21-171^
175, etc.] [1910], in progress.
[The numbers are not published in sequence. The series
comprises the subsidiary Wieyter Parapsychische Bibliothek,
edited by Ubald Tartaruga, as shown below.]
1.
—BergmaAxn, Was ist Okkultismus ? i^p. 46. [1920.]
2. W. 8tekel, Der telepathische Traum. i)p. 44 Third-
fourth edition. [1920 ? ]
3. F. Freudenberg, Astrale und elemeidare Eiii-fliisse. pp 28
[1920.]
11 °-
4-5. F. Quade, Die JenseUigeH. pp.95. Third-iifth edition
[1920 ? ]
6. R. Bernoulli, OkkuJtismus und bildotde Kuiist. pp 35
14 ill. [1920 ?]
11- '
7. E. Bischoff, Wunder der Kabbalah, i^p. 30. n.d.
[With a bibliography.]
8. W. Cierard, Ferufiihlen und Fernwirken.. pp. 43. [1920.]
9/10. M. Selling, Goethe als Okkultist. pp. 92. [1921 ? ]
11. A Hofmann, Die odische Lohe. pp. 56. Third-fourth
edition. [1920 ? ]
12. K. F. Jordan, Die wandernde tieele. pp. 48. [1921.]
13. F. (Jrunewald, Physikalisch-fnediumistische Untersuchungen.
pp. Ill, 28 diagrams and ill. Third-fifth thousand.
\_ 1 920, J
[Jouni. XX. 286. The medium and method of investi-
gation, laboratory installation, examples of investigation ;
bibliography.]
17. C Lomer, Seele und Kosmos. pp. 53. 1920.
18. F. Maack, Das Wunder der Alchimie. pp. 39 Third-
fourth edition. [1920 ? ]
19. A. Grobe-Wutischky, Das Gehei7nnis der Lebenszahlcn pp
46. [1920.]
20. A von Sehrenck-Notzing, Handlesekunst und Wissenschaft
pp. 39, 7 ill. Third-fifth edition. [1920 ? ]
21/22. H. Freimark, Das Tischrucken. pp. 51. Second-third
edition. 1921.
25. T. K. Oesterreich, Grundbegrijfe der Parapsycholoqie. pp
55. 1921.
27. F. W. Beck, Jenseits von Vergangenheit und Zukunfl ijp
38. Third-fourth edition. [1921?]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 111
28. H. Bode, Unsterblichkeit, pp. 46. Third-fifth edition.
1922.
29. E. Nordberg, Vom Jenseits der tiimie. pp.48. 1922.
30. C. Vogl, Sir Oliver Lodge's " Raymond oder Leben und Tod."
pp. 59. [1921 ? ]
31/32. J. Peter, Die Photographien des Unsichtbaren. pp. 53,
3 ill. [1921 ? ]
33. W. Moog, tJber Spaltung imd Verdopjolung der Persotdich-
keit. pp. 36. Second-third edition. [1922 ? ]
34. G. Lomer, Die Mystik des Traumes. pp. 53. Second-
third edition. 1921.
[71/72]. J. Peter, Psychometrie. pp. 47. Third-tifth edition.
1921.
108/1U9 (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliotek, 11). U. Tartaruga,
Wunder der Hypnose. pjj. 42, 15 ill. [1925.]
120/121 (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 7). K. Blacher,
Das Okkulte von der Naturwissenschaft aus bctrachtet. pp.
62. [1924 ?
]
122/123 (Wiener Parapsychische BibKothek, 1). U. Tartaruga,
Aus dem Reiche des Hellsehwunders. pp. 55. [1924 ? ]
124/125 (Wiener Parapsychische BibUothek, 2). K. C. Schneider,
Die Stellung der heutigen Wissenschajt zu den para-
psychischen Phdnomenen. pp.53. [1924 ?]
126. (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 3). F. Winkler,
Gesundurig durch Erziehung. pp. 25. [1924.]
127. (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 4). A. Missriegler,
Psychologie der Suggestion, pp. 25. [1924.]
128. (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 5). A. Schmid, Das
Leuchtver7ndgen des inenschlichen Korpers. pp. 16.
[1925.]
131. (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 6). L. Laszky, Die
magjietischen Krdfte des Menschen. Preface by U.
Tartaruga. pp. 28. [1925.]
\Journ. xxii. 95.]
132. (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 9). F. Schulhof, Sind
Sensitive und Medien Hysteriker ? Preface by U.
Tartaruga. pp. 24. [1925.]
133. (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 10). F. Brandl, Der
Mensch als kosm ische Ersclieinung. Preface by U. Tarta-
ruga. pp. 35. [1925.]
134. (Wiener Parapsychische BibUothek, 8). R. Sudre, Der
Kampf um die Metapsychik. Memoir by U. Tartaruga.
pp. 27. [1925.]
135. (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 12). A Wimmer,
Ueber Besessenheit. Translated by U. Tartaruga. pp.
21. [1925 ?
]
112 Sociel// for Psychical Research [part
Okkulte Welt, Die—
136. (Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, 13). R. Tengler, Das
Du ini Ich und das Ich im Du. pp. 32. [1925.]
[138/139]. M. Party, Materialisationen. Edited by P. Spanir.
pp. 64. Third-afth edition. [1925 ? ]
140. A. Neidhart, Das Zweite Gesicht. pp. 23. [1925 ? ]
[141], (Wiener Parapsychische BibHothek, 15). R. Schmid,
Leben und Urzeugung. pp. 24. [1926 ?]
[142]. K. von Eckartshausen, Die Wunschelrute. Preface by
H. Bauer, pp. 29. Third edition. [1926 ? ]
[143]. J. H. Jung-Stilhng, fio Thesen zur Geisterkunde. Edited
by W. von Biihl. pp. 41. Third-fifth edition. [1925 ? ]
[144/145]. R. Pettow, Der krankhafte Werkleidungstrieb. pp. 77.
Second-third edition. 1912.
[146]. G. Lomer, Die Seele wid ihre Todesfart. pp. 40. Third-
fourth edition. 1921.
[147/148]. G. Lomer, Die Magie der Liebe. pp. 40. 1922.
[149/150]. F. V. Schoffel, Irrwcge des Sexualtriebes und 6. Sinn.
pp. 40. Third-fifth edition. 1922.
[153/154] (Handbiicher der Biosophie, 2). W. Adelmann-
Hutttila, Einfilhrung in die Okkulte Weltanschauung.
pp. 80. n.d.
[155]. J. Peter, S'puk. Third-fifth editionJ, 1921.
[156/157]. F. V. Schoffel, Der Weg durch Jenseits. pp. 63.
Second-third edition. 1922.
[158/160]. W. Bond, Die Geheimnisse der Magie. Edited by
H. Amthor. pp. 92. Second-third edition, n.d.
[161/162]. L. Helrad, Botschaften aits dem Geisterreich. pp. 48.
Third-fifth edition. 1921.
[163/164]. W. Adelmann-Hiittula, Jeder Deutsche ein Yoga-
Praktiker ! pp. 47. 1922.
[170/171]. Stephanus, Das Reich der Geister. jjp. 64. Second-
third edition, n.d.
[172]. W. Gerard, Wie schiitze ich mich gegen Suggestion und
Hypnose ? pp. 36. Third-fifth edition, n.d.
[173/174]. Geschichten vo?i Klopf- und Plagegeistern. Edited by
Prospero. pp. 76. n.d.
[175]. Geisterschriften. Edited by Ein Freund der Erkenntnis.
pp. 32. n.d.
176. H. Hanig, Ausscheidung der Empfindung und Astralleib.
pp. 32. [1927.]
177. L. von Bunzen, Wunder mul Bcitsel der Stigmatisation.
pp. 28. [1927.]
Okkultismus, Der. Erste ilkistrierte Monat-sschrift zur Aussprache
und Auflilarung iiber alle Zweiggebiete und Auffassungen des
Okliultismus und verhandten Richtungen. Edited by Max
108] Library Catalogue, 1027-1928 113
Moecke [vol. i (nos. 1-2) ; Gustav Wittier, vols, i (nos. 3-4), ii
(nos. 5-6) ; Rudolf Tischner, vol. ii (nos. 1-4)]. 4to, vols, i, ii
(nos.1-6). Bielefeldi. W., September 1925-October 1926. [6130]
[No more published. With inscriptions by Rudolf Tischner.]
dsterreichisches Verband zur Klarung der Wiinschelrutenfrage,
Mitteilungen. 4to, nos. 1-7. Wien, July-August 1914.
[No more published.] [RT 3(7)]
Princeton Contributions to Psychology. See Psychological Mono-
graphs, The.
Psychic Science. See British College of Psychic Science, Ltd., Quarterly
Transactions.
Psychological Abstracts. Edited by Walter S. Hunter and Raymond
R. Willoughby. 8vo, vol. i, etc. American P.sychological
Association : Lancaster, Pa., 1927, in progress. [3 h]
Psychological Review, The, Monograph Supplements [afterivards
Psychological jMonographs]. Edited by Charles H. Judd [nos.
26-45 ; James Rowland Angell, nos. 46-154 ;
Shepherd Ivory
Franz, nos. 155, etc']. 8vo, Lancaster, New York and London,
1898 ; Lancaster and New York, 1901-1905 ; Lancaster and
Baltimore, 1906-1911; Princeton, Baltimore and Lancaster,
1911-1912; Princeton and Lancaster, 1912-1922; Princeton
1922-1925 ; Princeton and Albany 1925, in progress. [25 a]
[The Monograph Supplements divided, after no. 35, into the
two parallel series of Psychological Monographs and Philosophical
Monographs. No. 1 of the latter series (which was afterwards
discontinued) formed no. 36 of the former. With no. 52 the
Psychological Monographs became semi-independent of The
Psychological Review. The main series comprises the following
subsidiary series, made up as shown : The Johns Hopkins
Studies in Philosophy and Psychology (including Studies from the
Johns Hopkins Psychological Laboratory), nos. 36, 40, 47 ; Ohio
State University Psychological Studies, edited by T. H. Haines,
no. 45 ; Princeton Contributions to Psychology, no. 102 ; Psycho-
logical Studies from: the Catholic University of America (afterwards
Catholic University of America Studies in Psychology), edited by
E. A. Pace, nos. 30, 118-122, 141, 144 ; Studies from the Labora-
tory of the Vocation Bureau, Cincinnati, Ohio, no. 77 ; Studies
from the Psychological Laboratory of Harvard University, nos. 71-
73, 78, 79, 82 ; Sttidies from, the Psychological Laboratory of
Oberlin College, edited by R. H. xStetson, no. 145 ; Studies from
the Psychological Laboratory of the University of Chicago, nos. 37,
39, 42, 46, 48, 58-60. 68, 70, 85, 86, 93, 98, 99, 101. 104-106,
114-116, 128, 135, 142, 146-148, 154; Studies fro7n the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of the University of Illinois, no. 44 ; Studies
from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of Pennsyl-
vania, edited by S. S. Cohan, no. 74 ; Studies from the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of Wesleyan University, no. 35 ; Studies in
Psychology from the Jesup Psychological Laboratory, no. 156 ;
University of Iowa Studies in Psychology, edited by C. E. Sea-
114 Socicli/ for Psycliical Research [part
Psychological Review, The
—
shore, nos. 38, 108, 140, 167 ;
Wellesley College Studies in
Psychology, edited (no. 96) by E. A. McC. Gamble, nos. 43, 96 ;
Yale Psychological Studies, edited by C. H. Jiidd (afterwards by
R. P. Angier), nos. 29, 34, 75, 100. In addition, nos. 159-161,
164-166, 169, 171, were iDublished for the American Psycho-
logical Association. Laclving nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 8, 10-14, 16, 17, 19,
23, 25, 28, 54, 69, 110, 112.]
Vol. i. 2 : 2. M. W. Calkins, Association, pp. vii. 56. Feb-
ruaiy 1896.
ii. 2 : 6. J. P. Hylan, The Fluctuation of Attention., pp.
78, 11 diagrams. March 1898.
5 : 9. G. Van N. Dearborn, The Emotion of Joy. pp.
71. April- 1899.
[With a bibliography.]
iii. 5: 15. Y..l^.Thovi\d\\Ke, The Mental Life of the Monkeys.
pp. iv. 57, 5 diagrams. May 1901.
V. 1 : IS. J.W.'L. Jones, Sociality and Sympathy, pp. iii.
91. April 1903.
3 : 20. C. M. Hitchcock, The Psychology of E.xpcctation.
pp. iv. 78. January 1903.
4 : 21. J. B. Miner, Motor, Visual and Applied Rhytlums.
pp. iv. 106, 2 ill. June 1903.
[With a bibliograi^liy.]
5 : 22. J. F. Messenger, The Perceptio)i of Number.
pp. iii. 44, 2 plates. June 1903.
vi. 1 : 24. T. V. Moore, A Study in Reaction Time, and
Moi:ement. pp. iii. 86, 11 diagrams. April
1904.
[With a bibliograi^hy.]
3 : 26. J. E. Boodin, Time and Reality, pp. vii. 5-119.
October 1904.
4 : 27. I. King, The Differentiation of the Religious
Gonscioxisness. pp. iv. 72. January 1905.
vii. 1 : 29. [Collected joapers]. pp. vii. 226, numerous dia-
grams. March 1905.
2 : 30. C. A. Dubray, The Theory of Psychical Disposi-
tions, pp. vii. 170. October 1905.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 31. H. Carr, .4 Visual Ilhision of Motion during Eye
Closure, pp. v. 127, 10 diagrams. August
1906.
viii. 1 : 32. E. H. Rowland, The Psychological Experiences
connected with the Different Parts of Speech.
pp. 42. January 1907.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 33. J. B. Watson, Kincesthetic and Organic Sensa-
tions, pp. vi. 100, 17 diagrams. May 1907.
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 ll5
Vol. viii. 3 : 34. [Collected papers], pp. v. 227-423, numerous
diagrams. June 1907.
4 : 35 (Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of
Wesleyan University, i. 1). II. Dodge, A?i,
Experimental Study of Visual Fixation, pp.
vi. 95, 13 diagrams and 2 ill. November
1907.
36 (Philosophical Monographs, no. 1). W. D. Furry,
The Aesthetic Experience, pp. xv. 155.
January 1908.
ix. 1 : 37. J. E. Downey, Control Processes in Modified
Handwriting, pp. vii. 148, 3 folding plates.
April 1908.
-
2: 38. [Collected i^apers]. jip. 148, diagrams. June 1908.
3 : 39. J. Peterson, Combiuation Tones, pp. xiii. 136.
November 1908.
[With a bibliography.]
X. 1 : 40. [Collected papers.] pp. iii. 104, diagrams.
February 1909.
2: 41. E. A. Hayden, The Social Will. pp. vii. 93.
April 1909.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 42. G. M. Fernald, The Effect of Achromatic Condi-
tions on the Color Phenomena of Peripheral
Visioyi. pp. iv. 91. August 1909.
[With a bibliography.]
4 : 43. E. A. McC. Gamble, .4 Study in Memorising.
pp. xii. 211. September 1909.
xi. 1 : 44. [Collected j^^pers.] pp. v. 177, 4 plates.
November 1909.
2 : 45. L. C. Gatewood, An Experimental Study of
Dementia Praecox. pp. iii. 71, 7 diagrams.
November 1909.
3 : 46. C. S. Yaokum, An Experimental Study of
Fatigue, pp. vi. 131, diagram and 2 folding
tables. August 1909.
4 : 47. N. T. Burrow, The Determination of the Position
of a Momentary Impression in the Temporal
Course of a Moving Visual Impression, pp.
63, 3 diagrams. September 1909.
xii. 1 : 48. F. Richardson, A Study in Sensory Control in
the Rat. pp. iv. 124. October 1909.
2 : 49. H. A. Paterson, On the Influence of Complexity
and Dissimilarity on Memory, pp. v. 87,
numerous ill. November 1909.
3 : 50. W. Van D. Bingham, Studies in Melody, pp. vi.
88, 1 ill. and 2 diagrams. January 1910.
116 Society for Psychical Research [part
Psychological Review, The —
Vol. xii. 4 : 5J. Iveport of the Committee of the American
Psychological Association on the Teaching
of Psychology, pp. 93. April 1910.
5 : 52. W. T. Shepherd, Sotne Mental Processes of the
Rhesus Monkey, pp. iii. 61. November 1910.
[With a bibliography.]
xiii. 1 : 53. Report of the Committee of the American
Psychological Association on the Standardiz-
ing of Procedure in Experimental Tests, pp.
iii. 107, 5 diagrams. December 1910.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 55. H. C. McComas, Some Types of Attention, pp.
iii. 55, 3 folding tables. May 1911.
4 : 56. S. I. Franz, On the Functioyis of the Cerebrum.
With the co-operation of G. R. Lafora. pp.
iii. 118, 96 ill. September 1911.
[With a bibliograjjhy.]
5 : 57. R. S. Woodworth and F. L. Wells, Association
Tests. Being a part of the Repoi't of the
Committee of the American Psychological
Association on the Standardizing of Pro-
cedure in Experimental Tests, pp. iii. 85, 2
plates (1 in colours). December 1911.
xiv. 1 : 58. M. R. Fernald, The Diagnosis of Mental Imagery.
pp. V. 169. February 1912.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 59. H. F. Adams, Aiitokinetic SeJisations. pp. v.
45. July 1912.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 60. M. H. S. Stevens, A Study of Cutaneous After-
Sensations, pp. V. 89, 3 folding talales.
September 1912.
[With a bibliography.]
4 : 61. G. W. Fernberger, On the Relation of the Methods
of Just Perceptible Differences and Constant
Stimidi. pp. iv. 81. January 1913.
XV. 1 : 02. G. Rand, The Factors tluit Influence the Sensi-
tivity of the Retina to Color, pp. xi. 166.
March 1913.
2 : 63. E. G. Boring, Learning in Demeyitia Praecox-
Introduction by S. I. Franz, pp. iv. 101,
42 diagrams. June 1913.
3 : 04. F. N. Maxfield, An Experiment in Linear Space
Perception, pp. 42. xiv, 14 diagrams. July
1913.
4 : 65. R. H. Sylvester, The Form Board Test. pp. iii.
56, 5 diagrams. September 1913.
108] Library Catalogm, 1927-1928 117
Vol. XV. 5 : 66. G. R. Wells, The Influence of Stimulus Duration
on Reaction Tijne. pp. 69, 26 diagrams.
November 1913.
[With a bibliography.]
xvi. 1 : 67. C. Rahn, The Relation of Sensation to other
Categories, pp. v. 131. December 1913.
2 : 68. E. Abbott, The Effect of Adaptation on the
Temperature Difference Limen. pp. 36, 9
diagrams. March 1914.
4 : 70. F. A. C. Perrin, An Experimental and Intro-
spective Study of the Human Learning Process
in the Maze. pp. v. 97, 27 diagrams and
1 folding table. July 1914.
5 : 71. H. S. Langfeld, On the Psychophysiology of a
Prolonged Fast. pp. 50. xiii, 13 diagrams.
July 1914.
xvii. 1 : 72. J. W. Bridges, An Experimental Study of
Decision Types, pp. 72. August 1914.
2 : 73. H. T. Moore, The Genetic Aspect of Consonance
and Dissonance, pp. 68, 27 diagrams.
September 1914.
3 : 74. D. Mitchell, The Influeyice of Distractions on the
Formation of Judgments, pp. 50. viii, 12
diagrams. October 1914.
4 : 75. [Collected papers], pp. v. 155, 29 diagrams (in-
cluding 3 folding jolates). December 1914.
5 : 76. H. Woodrow, The Measurement of Attention.
pp. iii. 158, 10 diagrams. December 1914.
xviii. 1 : 77. H. T. Woolley and C. R. Fischer, Mental and
Physical Measurements of Working Children.
jop. iv. 247, numerous diagrams. December
1914.
2 : 78. G. A. Ferrigold, Recognition and Discrimination.
pp. vi. 128. February 1915.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 79. C. E. Kellogg, Alternation and Interference of
Feelings, pp. ii. 95, 2 diagrams. February
1915.
4 : 80. H. W. Crane, A Study in Association Reaction
and Reaction Time. pp. iii. 61. xii, 5
diagrams and 2 folding tables. March 1915.
xix. 1 : 81. S. I. Franz, On the Functions of the Cerebrum.
pp. V. 162. April-1915.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 82. R. C. Givler, The Psychophysiological Effect of
the Elements of Speech in Relation to Poetry.
pp. 132. April 1915.
118 Soeiefj/ for PsycMcnl Research [part
Psychological Review, The —
Vol. xix. 3 r S3. ( '. iSchmitt, Starulnrdization of Tests for Defective
Children, pp. v. 181, 9 diagrams. July
1915.
[With a bibliograjDliy.]
4 : 84. J. E. De Camp, A Study of Retroactive Inhibition.
pp. iii. 69. August 1915.
[With a bibliography.]
XX. 1 : 85. J. W. Hayes, A Horizontal-Vertical Illusion of
Brightness in Foveal Vision. pp. iii. 126,
4 diagrams. August 1915.
2 : 86. R. B. Owen, Recognition, pp. vi. 154. October
1915.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 87. J. E. Coover, Formal Discipline from the Stand-
point of Experimental Psychology, pp. viii.
307, 37 diagrams and ill. January 1916.
[With a bibliography.]
4 : 88. R. Pintner ayid, D. G. Paterson, Learning Tests
with Deaf Children, pp. iii. 23. xiv, 35
diagrams. February 1916.
xxi. 1 : 89. T. H. Haines, Mental Measurements of the Blind.
pp. iii. 86, 3 diagrams. April 1916.
2 : 90. S. C. Fisher, The Process of Generalizing Abstrac-
tion, pp. V. 213, 4 folding plates in colours
and 1 folding table. April 1916.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 91. W. H. Batson, Acquisition of Skill, pp. v. 92,
5 diagrams (2 folding). July 1916.
[With a bibliography.]
4 : 92. Studies in Social and General Psychology from
tlie University of Illinois. Edited by Madi-
son Bentley. pp. v. 115. June 1916.
xxii. 1 : 93. J. C. Barnes, Voluntary Isolation of Control in a
Natural Muscle Group, yy-p. vii. 50, 4
diagrams. August 1916.
2 : 94. J. E. W. Wallin, Psycho-Motor Norms fcr
Practical Diagnosis, pp. v. 102, 3 diagrams
and 8 folding tables. August 1916.
3 : 95. A. P. Weiss, Apparatus and Experiments on
Sound. Intensity, pp. iii. 59, 9 diagrams and
ill. October 1916.
4 : 96. [Collected papers], pp. iii. 192. October 1916.
5 : 97. H. Woodrow and F. Lowell, Childre^Cs Associa-
tion Frequency Tables, pp. iii. 110. 1916.
xxiii. [1] : 89 [sic for 98]. H. D. Kitson, The Scientific Study
of the College Student, pp. v. 81. 3 folding
tables. 1917.
Library Catalogue, 1927-192R 119
99. L. A. Pechstein, Whole vs. Part Methods in
Motor Learning, pp. v. 80, 2 diagrams.
1917.
[With a bibliograpliy.J
100. [Collected papers], pp. 156-331, 29 diagrams
and 1 folding table. 1917.
[With bibliographies.]
101. S. M. Ritter, The Vertical-Horizontal Illusion.
pp. V. 110, numerous diagrams (including 1
folding plate). 1917.
102. C. C. Brigham, Two Studies in Mental Tests.
pp. V. 254, 6 diagrams. 1917.
[With a bibliography.]
103. C. F. Ferree and G. Rand, Radiometric Appa-
ratus for Use in Psychological and Physio-
logical Optics, pp. xvi. 65, 6 diagrams and
ill. 1917.
104. L. W. Webb, Transfer of Training and Retro-
action, pp. V. 90, 8 diagrams. 1917.
105. B. Ruml, The Reliability of Mental Tests, pp.
iii. 63, 5 diagrams. 1917.
106. C. Rosenow. The Analysis of Mental Functions.
pp. iii. 43. [1917.]
107. E. C. Tolman, Retroactive Inhibition as Affected
by Conditions of Learning, pp. iii. 50.
[1918.]
108. [Collected papers], pp. iii. 163, 26 diagrams
and 1 folding table. 1918.
[With bibliographies.]
109. A. J. Rosanoff, H. E. Martin and I. R. Rosanoft,
^4 Higher Scale of Merited Measurement .
pp.
iii. 113. 1918.
111. A. A. Roback, The Interference of Will-
Impulses, pp. viii. 158. 1918.
[With a bibliography.]
113. F. E. Shaw, Same Imaginal Factors Influej^cirtg
Verbal E.xpression. pp. iii. 137. 1919.
[With a bibliography.]
114. L. L. Thurstone, The Learning Curve Equation.
pp. V. 51, 9 diagrams. 1919.
115. A. H. Arlitt, The Effect of Alcohol on the Intel-
ligent Behavior of the White Rat. pp. v. 50,
5 diagrams. 1919.
[With a bibliography.]
116. C. L. Kjerstad, The Form of Learning Curves
for Memory, pp. v. 89, 5 diagrams. 1919.
120 Societij for Psychical Research [part
Psychological Review, The
—
Vol. xxvi. 6 : 117. S. W. Fenibeiger, An Introspective Analysin of
the Process of Comparing, pp. iii. 161.
1919.
xxvii. [1] : 118. I. A. Hamel, A Study and Analysis of the Con-
ditioned Reflex, pp. 65, 7 diagrams. 1919.
[With a bibliograpliy.]
[2]: 119. T. V. Moore, Image and Meaning in Memory
and Perception, pp. 67-296. 1919.
[With a bibliography.]
[3] : 120. T. V. Moore, The Correlation Between Memory
and Perception in the Presence of Diffuse
Cortical Degeneration, pp. 297-345. 1919.
[4] : 121. P. H. Furfey, T. V. Moore and M. E. Lough-
ran. Clinical and Psychoanalytic Studies.
pp. 347-440, 2 folding tables. 1919.
[With a bibliograpliy.]
[6 {sic for 5)] : 122. A. R. McDonough, The Develop-
ment of Meaning, pp. 441-515, 3 diagrams.
1919.
xxviii. 1 : 123. C. L. Hull, Quantitative Aspects of the Evo-
lution of Concepts, pp. vi. 86, 19 diagrams.
1920.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 124. G. S. Snoddy, An Experimental Analysis of a
Case of Trial and Error Learning, pp. iv.
80. 21 diagrams and 1 folding table. 1920.
[With a bibliograishy.]
3 : 125. G. F. Arps, Work with Knowledge of Results
versus Work without Knowledge of Results.
pp. iii. 41, 15 diagrams (including 1 folding
plate). 1920.
4 : 126. E. L. Gatewood, Individual Differences in
Fi?iger Reactions, pp. v. 43, 8 diagrams.
1920.
5 : 127. M. A. Bills, Tfte Lag of Visual Sensation, pp.
vi. 101, 21 diagrams. 1920.
6 : 128. E. S. Robinson, Some Factors Determining the
Degree of Retroactive Inhibition, pp. iii. 57,
6 diagrams. 1920.
7 : 129. J. C. Paterson, The Higher Mental Processes in
Learning, pp. vi. 121, 2 diagrams. 1920.
xxix. 1 : 130. H. R. Crosland, A Qualitative Analysis of the
Process of Forgetting, pp. iii. 159. 1921.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 131. E. A. Dell, The Growth of Intelligence. 8vo,
pp. vi. 130, numerous diagrams. 1920 [on
cover: 1921].
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 121
Vol. xxix. 3 : 132. J. C. Reamer, Mental and Educational Measure-
ments of the Deaf. pp. ix. 130, numerotis
diagrams and 2 folding tables. 1921.
4 : 133. W. T. Root, A Socio-Psychological Study of
Fifty-thi-ee Supernormal Children, pp. v.
134, 9 folding tables. 1921.
XXX. [1] : 134. M. H. Means, A Tentative Stayidardization of
a Hard Opposites Test. pp. v. 65, 6 diagrams.
1921.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 135. J. U. Yarborough, The Influence of the Time
Interval Upon the Rate of Learning in the
White Rat. pp. v. 32. 1921.
3 : 136. Critical and Experimental Studies from the Uni-
versity of Illinois. Edited by M. Bentley.
8vo, pp. iii. 94, 20 diagrams, facsimiles
and ill. and 1 folding table. 1921.
4 : 137. J. L. Stockton, The Definition of Intelligence.
pp. vi. 118, 27 diagrams. 1921.
[With a bibliograiDhy.]
5 : 138. B. V. Moore, Persomiel Selection of Graduate
Engineers. Preface by W. V. Bingham,
pp. X. 85, 21 diagrams. 1921.
[With a bibliography.]
6 : 139. B. F. Haught, The Interrelation of Some
Higher Learnitig Processes, pp. vi. 71.
1921.
[With a bibliography.]
xxxi. 1 : 140. [Collected papers.] pp. iv. 382, nmnerous
diagrams. 1922.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 141. T. V. Moore, Percy Bysshe Shelley, pp. iii. 62.
1922.
3 : 142. C. W. Luh, The Conditions of Retention, pp. v.
87. 1922.
xxxii. 1 : 143. J. Liljencrants, Memory Defects in the Organic
Psychoses, pp. 77, 17 diagrams. 1922.
[With a bibliography.]
2: 14:4:. M. C. McGrath, A Study of the Normal Develop-
ment of Children, pp. iii. 190, 8 ill. and 7
folding tables. 1923.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 145. [Collected papers.] pp. iii. 58, 6 diagrams and
1 folding table. 1923.
4 : 146. M. Wooster, Certain Factors in the Development
of a New Spatial Coordination, pp. v. 96,
10 diagrams. 1923.
122 Society for Psychical Research [part
Psychological Review, The —
Vol. xxxii. 5 : 147. H. L. Koch, The Inflitoice of Mechanical
Guidance upon Maze Learning, pp. vi. 113,
6 diagrams. 1923.
xxxiii. 1 : 148. K. E. Ludgate, The Effect of Manual Guidance
tipon Maze Learning, pp. v. 65, 8 diagrams.
1923.
2 : 149. S. M. Stinchfield, The Formidation and Stan-
dardization of a Series of Graded Speech Tests,
pp. iv. 54, diagrams. 1923.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 150. C. L. Hull, The Influence of Tobacco Smoking
on Mental and Motor Efficiency, pp. iv. 161,
22 diagrams and ill. and 1 folding table.
1924.
4 : 151. M. Freyd, The Personalities of the Socially and
the Mechanically Inclined, pp. vii. 101. 1924.
[With a bibliography.]
5 : 152. C. Merriman, The Intellectual Resemblances of
Twins, pp. V. 58. 1924.
6 : 153. F. A. Kingsbury, A Group Intelligence Scale
for Primary Grades, pp. iii. 60, numerous
diagrams. 1924.
xxxiv. 1 ; 154. T. L. Wang, The Influence of Tuition in the
Acquisition of Skill, pp. v. 51, diagram.
1925.
2 : 155. C. T. Burnett, Splitting the Mind. pp. xi. 132.
1925.
3 : 156. J. A. Highsmith, Relation of the Rate of Response
to Intelligence, pp. viii. 33. 1924.
[With a bibliography.]
4 : 157. A. L. Lee, An Experimental Study of Retention
and its Relation to Iidelligence. pp. x. 45,
9 diagrams. 1925.
5 : 158. M. M. Monroe, The Energy Value of the Mini-
mum Visible Chromatic and Achromatic for
Different Wavelengths of the Spectrum, pp.
V. 60, 25 diagrams. 1924 [on cover : 1925].
[With a bibliography.]
[6 : 159]. A. S. Raubenheimer, An Experimental Study
of some Behavior Traits of the Poteyitially
Delinquent Boy. pp. v. 107, 8 diagrams.
May 1923.
[With a bibliograjjhy.]
7 : 160. G. M. Ruch, The Influence of the Factor of
Inielligence on the Form of the Learning Curve,
pp. V. 64, 9 diagrams. 1925.
[With a bibliography.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 123
pp. ii. 264, numerous
114, 10 diagrams.
Vol. xxxiv. 8 : 161. E. B. Skuggs, Further Studies in Retroactive
Inhibition, pp. v. 60, 3 diagrams. 1925.
[With a bibliography.]
XXXV. 1 : 162. O. Ortmami, On the Melodic Relativity of Tones.
jDp. iii. 47, 37 diagrams and ill. 1926.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 163. Studies in Psychology from the University of
Illinois. Edited by M. Bentley. 8vo, pp.
iii. 151, diagram. 1926.
[With a bibliography.]
J. W. Barton, Comprehensive Units in Learning
Typewriting, pp. v. 47, 3 diagrams. [1926.]
[With a bibliography.]
E. W. Amen, A^i Experimental Study of the
Self in Psychology, pp. v. 72. [1926.]'
H. L. Koch and R. Simmons, A Study of the
Test-Performances of American, Mexican, and
Negro Children, pp. iii. 116, 11 diagrams.
[1926.]
[With a bibliography.]
[Collected papers.]
diagrams. 1926.
[With a bibliograi3hy.]
[Collected papers.] pp. ii.
1926.
[With a bibliography.]
E. B. Sullivan, Attitude in Relation to Learning,
pp. iii. 149, 40 diagrams. 1927.
[With a bibliography.]
L. B. Dillingham, The Creative Imagination of
Thcophile Gautier. pp. x. 355. 1927.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 171. J. H. Kenneth, An Exq^erimental Study of
Affects and Associations due to Certain Odors.
pp. in. 64. 1927.
[With a bibliograjDhy.]
3: 172. C.H. Griffits, Individual Differences in Imagery
.
pp. iii. 91,4 diagrams. 1927.
.•
.
[With a bibliography.]
Psychological Studies from the Catholic University of America [after-
wards Catholic University of America Studies in Psychology].
See Psychological Review, The : Monograph Supplements.
Psycho-Medical Society, The, Transactions. 8vo, vols, ii (Part 1),
iii (Part 4), iv (Part 1). London, Cockermouth 19101913
[13 h 6 (6-9)]
Seelen-Probleme. See Gesellschaft fiir psychische Forschung zu
Riga, Seelen-Probleme.
164.
165.
166.
xxxvi. 1 : 167
168.
169.
xxxvii. 1 : 170
124 Society for Psychical Research [part
Societe Alchimique de France, Les Nouveaux Horizons " de la
Science et de la Pensee. L'Hyperchiinie—Rosa Alchemica.
Revue fmensuelle d'avant-garde scientifique et philosophique.
Edited by F. Jollivet Castelot. 8vo, vols, xi (nos. 3. 9, 7, 11,
12), xii (nos. 1-6). Douai, March 1906-June 1907. [13 h 11]
Society for Psychical Research, The, Library Catalogue. Compiled
by Theodore Besterman. 8vo, pp. viii. 367. [London] 1927.
[4 g h]
[Prospectus of a Medical Section of the Society.] 8vo, single
leaf. [London 1911.] [RPR 11 (6)]
Studies from the Johns Hopkins Psychological Laboratory. See
Psychological Review, The : Monograph Supplements.
Studies from the Laboratory of the Vocation Bureau, Cincinnati, Ohio.
See Psychological Monographs, The.
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of Harvard University.
See Psychological Monographs.
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of Oberlin College. ^See
Psychological Monographs.
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of Chicago.
See Psychological Review, The : Monograph Supplements.
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of Illinois.
See Psychological Review, The : Psychological Monograiahs.
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of Penn-
sylvania. See Psychological Monographs, The.
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of Wesleyan University.
See Psychological Review, The : Monograph Supplements.
Studies in Psychology from the Jesup Psychological Laboratory. See
Psychological Monographs.
Sliddeutsche Monatshefte. 8vo, vol. 25 (no. 1 : Okkultismus imd
Spiritismus). Miinchen, October 1927. [6 h 5]
Table Parlante, La. Joui-nal des Faits Merveilleux. 8vo. [Nos.
1-10.] [Edited by D. v.] [? Paris 1854.] [8 a 10]
[This volume consists of ten monthly numbers, without date
and place of publication, and without titlepage.]
Theosophical Siftings, Lending Library Catalogue [of the Theosophical
Publishing Society]. 8vo, pp. 16. London 1894. [RBi3(l)]
Two Worlds, The. A Weekly Journal devoted to the Phenomena,
Philosophy and Progress of Sf)iritualism, Religion and Reform.
Folio, vol. xl (no. 2060), etc. Manchester 1927, in progress.
University of Iowa Studies in Psychology. See Psychological Review,
The : Psychological Monographs.
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-192S 125
Unseen Universe, The. A ^Monthly Magazine devoted to Spiritism,
Occultism. Ancient Magic, Modern Mediumship, and every
subject that pertains to the \\Tience, ^\Tiat, and Whitherward
of Humanity. Under the sole charge and conduct of Mrs
Emma Hardinge Britten, Aided by able and talented Contri-
butors. 8vo, vol. 1. Manchester April 1892-March 1893
[No more published]. [7 e 8]
Verband zur Klarung der Wiinschelrutenfrage, Schrrften. 8vo,
Heft \,etc. Stuttgart. [6 131]
1. Des Landrats von Uslar Arbeiten mit der Wiinschelrute
in Siidwestafrika. pp. 26. 1912.
2. Die Versuche mit Rutengangern im Kaliberg%verk Riedel
bei Hanigsen (Hamiover) am 29. September 1911. pp. 16,
3 folding diagrams. 1912.
3. Graf C. von Klinckowstroem, Bibliographie der Wiinschel-
rute seit 1910 und Nachirdge {1610-1909) ; R. Weyrauch, Der
Begrijf des Erfolges bei Arbeiten von WiinscheJrutengdngern
;
Tabellen zur statistischen Aufzeiclinmig der Arbeiten mit der
Wiinscaelrute. pp. 63. 1912.
4. G. Franzius, Einige Versuche iiber die Einwirkungen
elektrischer Leitungen auf den Butengdnger ; Graf C. von Klinc-
kowstroem, Ergebnisse der Tdtigkeit des Landrats von Uslar in
Deiitschland ; Goette, Die Dichtxmgsarbeiteyi an der Gothaer
Talsperre zu Tambach. pp. 104, 3 diagrams. 1913.
5. Rutengangerversuche zur Auf¥indung von Wasserleitungs-
schaden ; G. Franzius, Die Bufengdngerversuche der Miinchener
Wasserversorgung zur Aiiffindung von Wasserleitungsschdden iji
den Jahren 1909-11, and Beilage ; G. Franzius, Beurteilung der
Versuche vom Standpunkte der Biitengdngerforschung. pp. 64,
46 diagrams. 1913.
6. G. Franzius, Bericht iiber die Tagung des Verbandes zur
Klarung der Wiinschelrutenfrage i>i. Halle a.S. 18.-20. September
1913. pp. 96, 12 diagrams, plans and portraits. 1914.
7. G. Franzius, Schriftwechsel des Verbandes mit dem Beichs-
Kolonialamt iiber Erfolge yyxit der Wiinschelrute in Deutsch-
Sudwestafrika ; Graf. C. von Klinckowstroem, Bibliographie der
Wiinschelrute, zweite Forsetzung (bis Ende 1911) und Kachtrdge.
pp. 176, ill. 1916.
8. H. Haenel, Zur physiologischen Mechanik der Wiinschelrute.
Mit einem Anhang : Beobachtungen an dem Butengdnger Donaih.
pp. 42, 13 iU. 1918.
9. E. Aigner, Die neuesten Ergebnisse der Wiinschelruten-
forschung in Praxis und Theorie. pp. 32. 1922.
10. Graf C. von Ivlinckowstroem, Xachruf Bobert Weyrauch ;
Fr. Behme, Xachruf Bichard Maurer ; Frhr. R. von Maltzahn,
Der gegenivdrtige Stand der Wiinschelrutenfrage ; Marqviardt,
Die Sickerungserscheinungen an der Briixer Talsperre imd ihre
Dichtung 7nit Hilfe der Wiinschelrute ; Frhr. R. von Maltzahn,
126 Societ// for Psi/chical Research [part 108]
Neue Gesichts]ni7ikte zur Psychologie der Wiinschelrute. pp, 42.
12 porti-aits, ill. and diagrams. 1927.
11. R. V. Maltzahn, Geleitwort ; P. Kukuk and H. Thiel,
Bericht iiber Versuche mit der Wiinschelrute in sudlichen
Ruhrbezirk ; K. Osswald, Geologische Beobachtungeit. mit der
Wiinschelrute ; H. Claus, Mein System, der Wasseradern-Querdra-
nung (Kurzdrdnung) ;
Braunolte, Wiinschelruten ergebnisse ;
C. V. Klinckowstroem, Zeitschrift fiir Wiinschelrutenforschung.
pp. 66, 2.3 diagrams. 1928.
Wellesley College Studies in Psychology. See Psychological Review,
The : Psychological Monographs.
Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek. See Okkulte Welt, Die, nos. 108
et seq.
Yale Psychological Studies. See Psychological Review, The : Mono-
graph Supplements.
Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph, The, containing a number of Extra-
ordinary Communications from the Spiritual World. 8vo, vols.
1-4. Keighley 1855-1857.
[Continued as] :
The British Spiritual Telegraph, being a Weekly Record of Spiritual
Phenomena. 8vo, vol. 1. Keighley, 27 June- 12 September
1857. [No more published.] [8 a 11-13]
Zagadnienia Metapsychiczne. Czasopismo kwartalne pos wi^cone
badam'an nadnormalnych objawow z Duchonych i Fizycznych
Dziedzin Bytu. 8vo, nos. 7-10. Warszawa 1925-1926.
[13 h 9(1)]
PART II
BOOKS AND PAMPHLETS
Abbott (Edwina), The Effect of Adaptation on the Temperature
Difference Limen. 8vo, pp. 36, 9 diagrams. The Psychological
iMonographs (xvi. 2 : 68, Studies from the Psychological
Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton and
Lancaster, March 1914. [25 a 16 (68)]
Abel (Jacob Friedrich), Einleitung in die Seelenlehre. Bvo, pp. xxxii.
•459. vi. Stuttgart 1786. [R 12 aa 3]
Ackermann (Theodor) Antiquariat, C4eheime Wissenschaften. Kata-
log 594-599. [Preface to vol. iii by H. L. Held.] 8vo, pp.
72+49 + 115 + 105 + 104, 5 vol. Miinchen 1926-1928. [RBi3(4-8)]
[i. Allgemeines, Aberglauben, Gespenster, Hexen, Inquisition,
Teufel, Zauberei, Magie, Prophezeiungen u. Weissagimgen,
Traxmie, Vehme, Visionen, Wunder ; ii. Magnetismus, Somnam-
bulismus, Hypnotismus, Sijiritismus, Theosophie und Anthro-
posophie, Buddhismus, Okkultismus ; iii. Kabbala, Mystik,
Philosophie vorwiegend Metaphysik und Indische Religions-
philosophic, Religionswissenschaft ; iv. Alchemie, Astrologie,
Chiromantie, Krauterbiicher, Medizin ; v. Freimaurerei ;
Jesuiten, Sekten, Rosenkreuzer, Illuminaten, Tempelherren,
Pietismus.]
Adams (Henry Foster), Autokinetic Sensations. 8vo, pp. v. 45.
The Psychological Monographs (xiv. 2 : 59, Studies from the
Psychological Laboratory of the LTniversity of Chicago) :
Princeton and Lancaster, July 1902. [25 a 14 (69)]
[With a bibliography.]
Addison (Charles Morris), What is Mysticism ? A Study of Man's
Search for God. 8vo, pp. vi. 54. New York 1923. [22 b 6]
Adelmann-Huttula (Willy), Einfiihrung in die Okkulte Weltan-
schauung. (Die indische Geheimlehre im Umriss.) Nach
massgebenden Quellenwerken und imter Zugrimdelegung der
hoheren Seelenkunde bearbeitet. 8vo, pp. 80. [Die Okkulte
W^elt (no. 153-154 :] Handbiicher der Biosophie, 2) : Pfullingen
n.d. [R 20 e 12 (153-4]
Jeder Deutsche ein Yoga-Praktiker ! Der Radscha-Yoga als
Lebenskimst und Lebenswissenschaft. 8vo, pp. 47. [Die
Okkulte Welt (no. 163-164)] : Pfullingen 1922.
[R 20e 14 (163-4)1
127
128 Society for Psychical Research [part
[Adelung (J. C.)], Gallerie der neuen propheten, apokalyptischen
Traumer, Geisterseher und Revolutionsprediger. Ein Beitrag
zur Geschichte der menschlichen Narrheit. [Preface by K.]
8vo, pp. [vi]. 487. [iii]. Leipzig 1799. [R 12 aa 4]
[Pages 478-487 are incorrectly numbered 278-287.]
Ageorges (Joseph), La Metapsychique et la Precormaissance de
TAvenir. yocrate chez I'Augure. Petits Entretiens au seuil
de I'Absolu. 8vo, pp. 285. Paris, Barcelona 1923. [5 e 9]
Agrippa von Nettesheim (H. C), Ungewissheit und Eitelkeit aller
Kunste und Wissenschaften |
auch Wie selbige dem Mensch-
lichen Geschlechte mehr schadlich als nutzlich sind. Ferner
von eben diesem Autore zwey curieuse Tractatlein |
als I. Von
dem Vorzug und Furtrefflichkeit des Weiblichen Geschlechts
vor dem Mannlichen. II. Von dem H. Ehestand. Aus dem
Lateinischen ins Teutsche ubersetzt. 8vo, pjj. [xxx]. 730. [vi].
Coelln 1713. [12 aa 19]
Aigner (Eduard), Preface to Franzius (G.), Schriftwechsel. [6 i 31 (7)]
Die neuesten Ergebnisse der Wiinschelrutenforschung in
Praxis und Theorie. Zum zehnjahrigen Bestehen des Verbands
zur Kliirung der Wiinschelrutenfrage. 8vo, pp. 32. Schriften
des Verbands zur Klarung der Wiinschelrutenfrage (Heft 9) :
Stuttgart 1922. [6 i 32 (9)]
Alidel (J.), Translation of Crookes (Sir W.), Nouvelles Experiences sur
la Force Psychique. [5 b 42]
Allendy (Rene), Le Probleme de la destinee. l5tude sur la fatalite
interieure. 8vo, pp. 221. Fifth edition. Les Documents bleus
(no. 37) : Paris 1927. [26 h 18]
Amen (Elizabeth Wheeler), An Experimental iStudy of the Self in
Psychology. 8vo, pp. v. 72. Psychological Monographs (xxxv.
4 : 165) : Princeton and Albany [1928]. [25 a 35 (165)]
Amthor (Heinrich), Editor of Bond (W.), Die Geheimnisse der Magie.
[R 20 e 14 (158-60)]
Angeblicher Einfluss mystischen Unfugs auf den Tod eines Post-
beamten in Hamburg. 8vo, pp. 33. Berlin 1827. [R 12 a 42]
[Offprint from tlie Zeitschrift fur die Criminalpflege.]
Angell (James Rowland), Editor of Psychological Review, The :
Psychological Monographs. [25 a]
Angier (Roswell P.), Editor of Yale Psychological Studies. [25 a]
Appasamy (A. J.) and Streeter (B. H.), The Sadhu. A Study in
Mysticism and Practical Rehgion. 8vo, pp. xv. 264, portrait.
London 1921. [17 e 19]
[On Sadhu Simdar Singh.]
Archytas, The Good and Happy Man, in lamblichus. Life of Pytha-
goras. [8 e 10]
108] Library Catalogue, 1027-1928 129
Archytas—
On Disciplines, in lamblichus, Life of Pythagoras. [Be 10]
On Ethical Erudition, i)i lamblichus, Life of Pythagoras.
[8 e 10]
Aretin (Johann Christoph, Freiherr von), Beytrage zur literarischen
Geschichte der Wiinschelruthe. 4to, pp. [ii]. cols. 96. Miinchen
1807. [R 21 h 8]
Arlitt (Ada Hait), The Effect of Alcohol on the Intelligent Behavior
of the White Rat and its Progeny. 8vo, pp. v. 50, 5 diagrams.
Psychological Monographs (xxvi. 4: 115, Studies from the
Psychological Laboratory of the University of Chicago) :
Princeton and Lancaster 1919. [25 a 26 (115)]
[With a bibliography.]
Armstrong (Henry Edward), PostscriiDt to Clodd (E.), The Question.
[6 d 15]
Arnold (Hans), Der Adept, oder Unterrichtstunden eines Zauber-
lehrlings. Eine vollstandige Anleitung zur Erlangmig der hoch-
sten Gliickseligkeit und Weisheit sowie iibersirmlicher magischer
Krafte, welche befahigen zur selbsteigenen Ausfiihruiig phano-
menalster Wunder. 8vo, pp. 319. Second edition. Leipzig
1899. [17 c 12]
[The publisher's name on the wrapper is not the same as that
on the titlepage.]
" Materialismus oder Spiritismus ? " Aufzeichntmgen aus
dem Leben eines Unbekannten. 8vo, pp. 194. Leipzig 1892.
[26 e 28]
Der Verkehr mit der jenseitigen Welt ohne Medien auf
Grimd der Skriptoscopie-Methode. 8vo, pp. 25. Leipzig 1900.
[RS'16 (4)]
Was wird aus uns nach dem Tode ? Eine popular-natur-
philosophische Abhandlung in Form eines Vortrages. 8vo, pp.
152. Second [on wrapper : improved] edition. Leipzig 1900.
[26 e 36]
Arps (George F.), Work with Knowledge of Results versus Work
without Knowledge of Results. Awareness and Partial Aware-
ness as Factors Conditioning Efficiency. 8vo, pp. iii. 41, 15
diagrams (including 1 folding plate). The Psychological Mono-
graphs (xxviii. 3 : 125) : Princeton and Lancaster 1920.
[25 a 28 (125)]
Assier (Adolphe d'). Posthumous Humanity : a Study of Phantoms.
Translated and Annotated by Henry S. Olcott. To which is
added an Appendix shewing the Popular Beliefs current in India
respecting the Post-mortem Vicissitudes of the Human Entity.
8vo, pp. xxiv. 360. London 1887. [17 b 24]
Astrampsychus, Oneirocriticon, a Jos. Scaligero, digestum & casti-
gatum, in ZifivWiaKoi xpv^ho^- [12 bb 14]
130 Society for Psi/chical Research [part
Aveling (Francis), On the Consciousness of the Universal . and the
Individual. A contribution to the phenomenology of the
thought i^rocesses. 8vo, pp. x. 255. London 1912. [26 f 29]
[With a bibliography.]
Aveling (F. A. P.), Psychology, in Mind, The [9 e 19]
Baader (Franz, Ritter von), Ueber Divinations- und Glaubenskraft.
Auf \'eranlassung der im Sommer 1821 in und um. Wurzburg
von dem Bauer Martin Michel und dem Fiirsten Alexander von
Hohenlohe untei-nommenen psychischen Heilungen. Aus einem
Schreiben an Seine Excellenz der Herrn Fursten Alexander von
Golizin. 8vo, pp. 62. Sulzbach, im Regenkreise Baierns,
1822. [R20d42]
Bagger (Eugene S.), Psycho-Graphology. A Study of Rafael Scher-
mann. 8vo, pp. vi. 138. London and New York 1924. [6 g 2]
Baguette Divinatoire. 8vo, pp. 75-81.
[Part of a dictionary (?), c. 1800.]
Baiersche Prophet, Der, oder die dem frommen Johann Daniel
Wunder, aus dem Dorfe Johannesberg bei Aschaffenburg, von
dem Engel Gabriel in der Nacht vom 29. auf den 30. Sept. 1831,
auf dem daselbst liegenden heiligen, s.g. Johannesberge, audi
Maria Ehrenberg genannt ubergebene Prophezeihung, welche
in lateinischer Sprache, mit goldenen Buchstaben auf ein sechs
Schuh breites und acht Schuh hohes, dem Pergamente sehr
ahnliches Material geschrieben ist, und von mir Johann Pliilipp
Hirte, geistlicher Rath daselbst, ins Deutsche ubersetzt, und
alsdann dem heiligen Vater zu Rom zur Aufbewahrung und
Anbetung in der heiligen Kirche ubersendet worden. Zum
Troste aller frommen Menschenkinder. 16 mo, pp. 16. Hanau
[1831 ?]. [R20d40]
Baker (Ivan), Foreword to Nusslein (Ivan), Catalogue of an Exhibition
of Occult Paintings. [RPR 11 (13)]
Balado (Manuel), Editor o/ Archives Argentines de Neurologia. [3i]
Barker (Ernest), Introduction to Mind, The. [9 e 19]
Barnes (Jasper Converse), Voluntary Isolation of Control in a Natural
Muscle Group. 8vo, pp. vii. 50, 4 diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xxii. 1 : 93, Studies from the Psychological
Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton and
Lancaster, August 1916. [25 a 22 (93)]
Barrett (Sir W. F.), The History and Mystery of the so-called Divining
or Dowsing Rod. Svo, pp. 16, 10 ill., facsimiles and diagrams.
London [1910 ?]. [RDo2(10)]
Transference of Thought. Proof slip. [RF 3]
[Proof of a letter to The Times (London, 20 December 1924).]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 131
Barton (J. W.), Com[)rehen,siv6 Units in learning Ty|jewriting. Svo,
PJ1. V. 47, 3 diagrams. Psychological Monograplis (xxx\-. 3 :
164): Princeton and Albany [1926]. [25 a 35 (164)]
[With a bibhography.]
Bastian (Adolf), Die Seele indischer und hellenischer Pliilosophie in
den Ges]Denstem moderner Geisterseherei. Svo, pp. xlviii. 223.
BerHn 1886. [26 f 33]
Batson (William Howard), Acquisition of SlcilL Svo, pp. v. 92,
5 diagrams (2 folding). Psychological Monographs (xxi. 3 : 91) :
Princeton and Lancaster, July 1916. [25 a 21 (91)]
[With a bibliography.]
Bauer (Heinz), Preface to Eckartshausen (K. von), Die Wiinschelrute.
[R 20 e 12 (142)]
Bautain ( ), Les choses de Tautre monde. Journal d"un philosophe.
Preface by de Regny. 12mo, pp. viii. 449. Paris 1868. [26e39]
Bayerthal (JuUus), Erblichkeit und Erziehung in ihren individuellen
Ijcdeutung. Svo, pp. viii. 80. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (xii. 77) : Wiesbaden 1911. [R 20 f 12 (77)]
[With a bibliography.]
Bechterew (W. von), Das Verbrechertum im Liehte cler objektiven
Psychologie. Translated by T. Rosenthal. Svo, pp. ii. 53.
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xv. 94) : Wiesbaden
1914. [R 20 f 15 (94)]
Beck (F. W.), Jenseits von Vergangenheit und Zukunft. Eine Studie
vom iiberzeitlichen Sein. Svo, pp. 38. Third-fourth edition.
Die Okkulte Welt (No. 27) : Pfullingen [1921 ?]. [R 20 f 3 (27)]
Beck (Jessie), Translation of Jacopone da Todi, Laude, in Underbill
(E.), Jacopone da Todi'. [S d 12]
Behme (Fr.), Nachruf Richard Maurer. Svo, pp. 4-6, portrait.
[6 i 32 (10)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands ziir Kldrung der Wiinschelrulen-
Jrage (Stuttgart 1927), Heft 10.]
Bekker (Balthasar), Die Bezauberte Welt : Oder Eine grundliche
Untersuchung des Allgemeinen Aberglaubens |
Betrelfend |
die
Arth und das Vermogen |
Gewalt und Wirckung des Satans
und der bosen Geister uber den Menschen |
Und was diese durch
derselbem Krafft und Gemeinschafft thun : So aus Naturlicher
Vernunfft imd H. Schrift in 4 Buchern zu bewehi'en sich unter-
nommen hat Balthasar Bekker. Nebenst des Authoris
generale Vorrede uber diese seine 4 Bucher ; Wie und welcher
Gestalt dieselbe zu lesen |
der Zweck seines Vorhabens |
und
dann die Ordnung |
so er daiinnen gehalten. Aus deni Hol-
landischen nach der letzten vom Authore vermehrten Edition.
4to, pp. 40. 136. 272. 198. 312, portrait on title page. Amsterdam
1693. [R12bb3]
[Each book has a separate pagination.]
132 Society for PsycMc.al Research [part
Belcier (Jeanne de, called Jeanne des Anges), Scsur Jeanne des Anges,
8u]ierieiire des Ursulines do Loudun (XVII' siecle). Aut-obio-
graphie d'une hysterique possedee. D'apres le manuscrit inedit
de la bibliotheque de Tours. Annotee et publie par Gabriel
Legue et Gilles de la Tourette. Preface by M. Charcot. 8vo,
pp. xiv. 323, 2 facsimiles. T3ibliotheque Diabolique (Collection
Bourneville) : Paris 1886. [21 c 3]
Memoiren oiner Besessenen. Edited by Hanns
Heinz Ewers. Translated by Alfred Kind. 8vo, pp. 271,
portrait, 2 facsimiles and 9 ill. Stuttgart 1911. [21 c 16]
Bennetts (H. J. T.), Evidence of Things not Seen Collected from
Miracles and Visions of the Blessed Sacrament. 8vo, pp. 223,
2 coloured ill. London 1920. [17 e 16]
Bentley (Madison), Editor of Studies in Social and General Psychology
from the University of Illinois. [25 a]
Editor of Studies in Psychology from the University of Illinois.
[25 a]
Bergmann ( ), Was ist Okkultismus und worauf beruhen die
okkulten Erscheinungen ? 8vo, pp. 46. Die Okkulte Welt
(no. 1) : Berlin [1920]. [R20el(l)]
Berliner (B), Der Einfluss von Klima, Wetter und Jahreszeit auf das
Nerven- und Seelenleben, auf physiologischer Grundlage
dargestellt. 8vo, pp. v. 56. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (xv. 96) : Wiesbaden 1914. [R 20 f 15 (96)]
Berndt (G. H.), Das Buch der Wunder und der Geheimwissenschaften.
Popular-wissenschaftlich und in ihren Beziehungen zur prak-
tischen Heilkunde dargestellt. 8vo, pp. 956, 172 portraits, ill.
and diagrams, 2 vols. Second edition. Leipzig n.d. [21 d 4]
Bernoulli (Rudolf), Okkultismus und bildende Kunst. Vortrag. 8vo,
pp. 35, 14 ill. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 6) : Berlin [1920 ?].
[R 20 e 1 (6)]
Besant (Annie), Foreword to Wedgwood (J. I.), Varieties of Psychism.
[5 e 24]
Death—and After ? 8vo, pp. 88. Twenty-seventh thousand.
Theosophical Manuals (no. 3) : London n.d. [7 f 3]
H. P. Blavatsky and the Masters of the Wisdom. 8vo,
pp. 58. London : Reprint 1922. [RTh 5 (5)]
Man and his Bodies. 8vo, pp. 120. Seventh reprint. Theoso-
phical Manuals (no. 7) : London n.d. [7 f 4]
Man's Life in Three Worlds : a booklet for beginners. 8vo,
pp.107. Second edition. Adyar 1925. [RTh 5 (6)J
— Mysticism. 8vo, pp. 143. London 1914. [7 f 1]
The Self and its Sheaths. 8vo, pp. 120. London 1903.
[7f 6]
108] Lihranj Catalogue, 1927-1928 133
Besant (Annie)
—
A Study ill Consciousness. A Contribution to the Science
of Psychology. 8vo, pp. ix. 460. London 1925. [7 f 5]
Theosophy and the New Psychology. 8vo, pp. 135. London
and Benares' 1904. Reprinted 1909. [7 f 7]
Thought Power : its Control and Culture. 8vo, pp. 145.
Twelfth Reprint. London 1920. [7 f 2]
What the Mystic means by the " Eternal Now." A talk to
students. 8vo, pp. 21. Adyar 1921. [RTh 5 (4)]
, Blavatsky (H. P.), Olcott (H. S.) and Jinarajadasa (C), The
Theosophical Society : the First Fifty Years. Edited by
B. P. Howell. 8vo, pp. xiii. 79. London 1925. [RTh 5 (8)]
and Leadbeater (C. W.), Man : Whence, How and
Whither. A record of clairvoyant investigation. 4to, pp. 9.
vii. 524, 3 ill. (1 in colour). Adyar and Benares 1913. [7 g 15]
Occult Chemistry : Clairvoyant Observations on the
Chemical Elements. Revised edition edited by A. P. Sinnett.
8vo, pp. V. 109. X, 52 ill. and diagrams. London 1919. [7 g 14]
and Mead (G. R. S.), Editors of Blavatsky (H. P.), The Secret
Doctrine. [7 g 9-12]
Bescheidentliche Erorterung der Frage : Ob die Seligen im Himmel fur
ihre Hinterlassene auf Erden msgemein uiid insoiiderheit beten ?
Auf Begehren entworffen von Einem Diener des Gottliclien
Wortes. 4to, pp. 12. Leipzig 1727. [R 20 d 35]
Best (Cliflford S.), Science and Psychic Research. A Record of
Recent Experiment. 8vo, pp. 124-132. [RPR 11 (16)]
[Part of The Theosophical Review (London, March 1925), n.s.i.]
Besterman (Theodore), The Belief in Reincarnation: its History and
Distribution. 8vo, pp. 23-27, 93-97, 157-160, 193-197, 261-266,
325-330, 378-382, 439-444, 520-521. [17 f 13]
[Containing : i. Introductory ; ii. The Belief in Central
Australia and Queensland ; iii. The Belief in West Africa ;
iv. The Belief among various Savage Peoples ; v. The Belief
among the Jews; vi. The Belief in Hinduism; vii. The Belief
among the Celts ; viii. The Belief in Buddhism, Jainism and
Taoism ; ix. In Ancient Greece ; x. Conclusion. Part of The
Theosophical Review (London January-September 1926), n.s. ii.
Clairvoyance amongst Primitive Peoples. 8vo, pp. 235-241,
388-395. [RAH 4 (9)]
[Part of The Occult Review (London, October, December 1926),
xliv].
'
Daniel Dunglas Home. 8vo, pp. 141-147. [RPR 11 (15)]
[An account of the clairvoyant johenomena associated with
Home ; with a bibliography. Part of The Theosophical Revieiv
(London March 1925), n.s.i].
134 Society for Psychical Research [part
Besterman (Theodore)—
Di\ iiiatioii by Finger Nails. Svo, pi>. 12U-122.
[Part of Notes atid Queries (London, 15 August 1925), cxlix.]
[RAH 4(7)]
The Divine Voice of Socrates. Svo, pp. 215-225. [RAH 4 (6)]
[An account of the clairvoyant phenomena associated with
Socrates. Part of The Occult Review (London, April 1925), xli.]
Dr Dee's Shew-Stone. Svo, pp. 223-225. [RAH 4 (3)]
[Part of Notes and Queries (London, 29 March 1924), cxlvi.]
Library Catalogue of the Society for Psychical Research.
Svo, p\K viii. 367. [London] 1927. [4 g 8]
— Saint Joan of Arc : a Study in Cryptesthesia. Svo, pp. 656-
665. [RAH 4 (S)]
[Part of The Theosophicai Review (London, November 1925),
n.s. i.]
The Witch of Endor. (A Study of Psychical Phenomena in
the Bible). Svo, pp. 5-12, 68-76, 129-137. [RAH 4 (13)]
[Part of The Theosophicai Review (London, January-March
1928), n.s. iv. No more published of tlie Review.]
Beyer (Hermann), Editor of Schultz (P.), Gehirn und Seele. [3 b 10]
Biedermann (Gustav), Philosojjliie des Geistes. Des Systems der
Philosophie Erster Theil. Svo, pp. xxxi. 316. Prag, Leipzig
1886. [26e27]
Biervliet (J. J. van), La Psychologic d'aujourd'hui. Svo, pp. v. 153.
Paris 1927. [RP 9 (8)]
[Jouni. xxiv. 293.]
Bills (Marion A.), The Lag of Visual Sensation in its Relation to
Wave Lengths and Intensity of Light. Svo, pp. vi. 101, 21
diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxviii. 5 : 127) : Prince-
ton and Lancaster 1920. [25 a 28 (127)]
Bingham (W. Van Dyke), Preface to Moore (B. V.), Personnel Selection
of Graduate Engineers. [25 a 30 (138)]
Studies in Melody. Svo, pp. vi. 88, 1 ill. and 2 diagrams.
The Psychological Review : Monograjih Supplements (xii. 3 :
50) : Lancaster and Baltimore, January 1910. [25 a 12 (50)]
[Binney ( )], Das Leben jenseits des Grabes. Van einem Geist
geschildert [through the automatic writing of Binney]. Aus
dem Englischen iibersetzt und mit Bemerkungen versehen von
Robert Friese. Svo, pp. xii. 281. Leipzig 1899. [23 f 21]
Binsfeld (Peter), Tractatvs de Confessionibvs Maleficorum & Sagarum.
an, et qvanta fides ijs adhibenda sit. Svo, pp. [xv]. 196. [xvii].
Avgvstae Trevirorvm 1589. [R 12 b 67]
Bird (J. Malcolm), 'My Psychic Adventures. Svo. pp. vii. 309,
10 ijortraits, ill. and diagrams. London 1923. [5 e 20]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 135
Birnbaum (Karl), Grundziige der Kulturpsychopathologie. 8vo,
pp. vii. 70. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (no.
116). Miinchen 1924. [R 20 f 18 (116)]
Die krankhafte Willensschwache und ihre Erscheinungs-
fornien. Eine psychopathologische Studie fiir Arzte, Padagogen
und gebildete Laien. 8vo, pp. iii. 75. Grenzfragen des Nerven-
und Seelenlebens (xii. 79) : Wiesbaden 1911. [R 20 f 12 (79)]
Psychische Verursachung seelischer Storungen und die
psyehisch bedingten abnormen Seelenvorgange. 8vo, pp. vi. 77.
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xvi. 103) : Wies-
baden 1918. [R 20 f 16 (103)]
liber Psychopathische Personlichkeiten. Eine psychopatho-
logische Studie. 8vo, pp. iv. 88. Grenzfragen des Nerven-
und Seelenlebens (x. 64) : Wiesbaden 1909. [R 20 f 10 (64)]
Bischofif (Erich), Wunder der Kabbalah. Die okkulte Praxis der
Kabbalisten. Geheimwissenschaftliche Studien. 8vo, pp. 30.
Die Okkulte Welt (no. 7) : Pfullingen n.d. [R 20 e 1 (7)]
Blackman (Winifred S.), The Fellahin of Upper Egypt: their
religious, social and industrial life to-day with sjDecial
reference to survivals from ancient times. With a Foreword by
R. R. Marett. 8vo, j^p. 331, map and 186 ill. London, Bombay,
Sydney 1927. [22 e 6]
[Including chapters on magic and the evil eye.]
Blavatsky (H. P.), A Modern Panarion : a Collection of Fugitive
Fragments. 8vo, pp. ix. 504. The H.P.B. Memorial Fund
Series (vol. i) : London, New York and Madras 1895. [7 g 8]
The Secret Doctrine : the Synthesis of Science, Religion,
and Philosophy. Edited by Aimie Besant and G. R. S. Mead.
8vo, pp. xxih. 740 + xx. 842 + xx. 594 + 326. 47, 4 vols.
London : 1893, Reprinted . . . 1921. [7 g 9-12]
[Vol. i. Cosmogenesis ; ii. Anthropogenesis ; iv. Index.]
, Olcott (H. S.), Besant (A.) and Jinarajadasa (C), The Theo-
sophical Society : the first Fifty Years. Edited by B. P.
Howell. 8vo, pp. xiii. 79. London 1925. [RTh 5 (8)]
Blum (Robert), Editor of Kiesewetter (K.), Geschichte des neueren
Occultismus. [21 c 13]
Bode (Heinrich), Unsterblichkeit. 8vo, pp. 46. Third-fifth edition.
Die Okkulte Welt (no. 28) : Pfullingen 1922. [R 20 e 3 (28)]
Bodier (Paul), Preface to Tellalian (K. M.), La Ltuniere par les Reves.
[RD 2 (3)]
Bodin (Jean), Contre Freud. Critic^ue de toute psychologie de
I'inconscient. 8vo, pp. iv. 101. Paris 1926. [10h32]
De Magorimi Demonomania Libri IV. 4to, jop. [xxxi]. 488.
Basiliae 1581. [R 11 a 21]
136 Society for Psychical Research [part
Boehm (Rudolf), Authorised translation of Maudsley (H.), Die
Physiologie und Patliologie der Seele. [10 c 5]
Bohn (Ericli), Der Spuk in Oels. 8vo, pp. 47, diagram. Second
edition. Beitrage zur Metapsychik in Einzel-Darstellungen
(no. I) : Breslau 1919. [R 27 f]
Bohn (Wolfgang), Die Psychologie und Ethik des Buddhismus. 8vo,
pp. ix. 76. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (no.
110): Miinchen iind Wiesbaden 1921. [20fl7(110)]
Bois (Jules), fitude documentaire sur I'auteur et Toeuvre, in Mau-
champ (E.), La Sorcellerie au Maroc. [21 e 15]
Boissier ( ), Recueil de Letti-es au sujet des malefices et du sortilege ;
Servant de reponse aux Lettres du Sieur de Saint-Andre,
Medecin k Coutances sur le meme sujet : Avac la SQavante
Remonstrance du Parlement de Rouen faite au Roy Louis XIV.
au sujet du Sortilege, du Malefice, des Sabats, & autres effets de
la Magie, pour la perfection du procez dont il est parle dans ces
Lettres. 12mo, pp. xvi. 387. Paris 1731. [R 12 aa 16]
Bond (F. Bligh), Editor of British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
Quarterly Transactions. [R 18h]
The Rose Miraculous. The story of the Sangreal. No. vi.
of the Glastonbury Scrijats. 8vo, pp. 30. Glastonbury 1924.
[R 27 g]
[Journ. xxi. 360. A metiical version of automatic writings by
H. T. S.]
Bond (W.), Die Geheimnisse der Magie. Aus der Lebensgeschichte
eines taubstummen Hellsehers. Neu herausgegeben und mit
einer Einleitung versehen von Heinr. Amthor. 8vo. pp. 92.
Second-third edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 158-160)]:
Pfullingen n.d. [R 20 e 14 (158-60)]
Bonnet (C), La Palingenesie Philosophique, ou Idees sur I'fitat
passe et sur I'etat futur des litres Vivans. Ouvrage destine a
servir de Supplement aux derniers ficrits de I'Auteur, Et qui
contient principalement le Precis de ses Recherches sur le
Christianisme. 8vo, pp. xxvii. 431 +iv. 448, 2 vols. Geneve
1770. [R12bb8-9]
Bonnet (Gerard), Transmission de Pensee. 12mo, pp. xiv. 287.
Paris 1906. [10 f 18]
Book of the Dead, The. The Chapters of Coming Forth by Day.
The EgyjDtian Text according to the Theban Recension in Hiero-
glyjahic edited from numerous Papyri, with a Translation,
Vocabulary, etc., by E. A. Wallis Budge. 8vo, pp. xl. 517 -f cciv.
354, 18 plates (3 in colours) -1-ix. 386, 3 vols. London 1898.
[22 d 8-10]
[Each volume, in addition to the collective titlepages, has a
separate one.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 137
Borch (Rudolf), Einfiihrung in eine Geistesgeschichte. 8vo, p. 123.
Hamburg und Berlin 1912. [26 f 32]
Boring (Edwin G.), Learning in Dementia Praecox. A Study from
the Psychological Laboratory of the Government Hospital for
the Insane, Washington, D.C. With an Introduction by
Shepherd Ivory Franz. 8vo, pp. iv. 101, 42 diagrams. The
Psychological Monographs (xv. 2 : 63) : Princeton and Lan-
caster, Jime 1913. [25 a 15 (63)]
Bourdeau (Louis), Le Probleme de la Mort, ses solutions imaginaires
et la science positive. 8vo, pp. 358. Third edition, revised and
enlarged. Paris 1900. [26 i 3]
Bourneville ( ) ami Teinturien (E.), Le Sabbat des Sorciers. 4to,
pp. 38. 26 ill. (including a folding plate). Second edition.
Bibliotheque Diabolique : Paris 1890. [R 20 d 51]
[One of an edition of 25 copies.]
Boutet (Frederic), Les Aventuriers du Mystere. (Tableau de I'Au-
del&..) 8vo, pp. 223. Sixth edition. Les Documents Bleus
(no. 36) : Paris 1927. [17 f 6]
Brackett (E. A.), Materialisierte Erscheinmigen. Wenn sie nicht
Wesen aus einer anderen Welt sind, was sind sie sonst ? Trans-
lated by Bernhard Forsboom and Kai'l du Prel. 8vo, pp. 107.
Third edition. Berlin 1922. [5 f 20]
Brannolte ( ), Wiinschelrutenergebnisse. 8vo, pp. 62-63. [6 i 32 (11)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Kldrung der Wunschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1928), Heft 11.]
Brausewetter (Ernst), Translation of Christmas-Dircking-Holmfeld
(E. von), Wunder. [23 f 16]
Bret (P. Thomas), Precis de Metapsychique. Subconscient et Meta-
psychisme. Vocabulaire—Classification. Differenciation entre
le subconscient et le metapsychisme. La Mediumnite chez
I'homme et chez les animaux humanises. Le deuxieme Milieu
objectif. Le metether, d'apres F. Bacon, Schopenhauer, F.
Myers. 8vo, pp. 182. Paris 1927. [R 27 f]
Bricaud (Joanny), Les Illuminees d'Avignon. iStude sur Dom
Pernety et son Groupe. 8vo, pp. v. 114. Bibliotheque des
Imitations Modernes (vol. IV.) : Paris 1927. [22 b 15]
[With a bibliography.]
Bridges (James Winifred), An Experimental Study of Decision Types
and their Mental Correlates. 8vo, pp. 12. The Psychological
Monographs (xvii. 1 : 72, Studies from the Psychological
Laboratory of Harvard University) : Princeton and Lancaster,
August 1914. [25 a 17 (72)]
Brigham (Carl C), Two Studies in Mental Tests. I. Variable Factors
in the Binet Tests. II. The Diagnostic Value of some Mental
Tests. 8vo, pp. V. 254, 6 diagrams. The Psychological Mono-
138 Society for Psychical Research [part
graphs (xxiv. 1 : 102, Princeton Contributions to Psychology) ;
Princeton and Lancaster 1917. [25 a 24 (102)]
[With a bibUograjDhy.]
Brown (William), A Case of Extensive Amnesia of Remote Date
cured by Psycho -Analysis and Hypnosis. 4to, i3p. 1217-1218
[imperfect]. [RT 2 (42)]
[Part of The British MedicalJournal (8 November, 1913).]
Bruce (H. Addington), Introduction to Coriat (I. H.), The Meaning of
Dreams. [3 c 26]
Buchner (Eberhard), Von den Ubersinnlichen Dingen. Ein Fiihrer
durch das Reich der Okkulten Foi'schung. 8vo, pp. xvi. 324.
Leipzig 1924. [17 e 26]
Budge (Sir E. A. Wallis), Edition and translation of Book of the Dead,
The. [22 d 8-10]
Biihl (Walter von). Editor of Jung-Stilling (J. H.), 55 Thesen zur
Geisterkmide. [R 20 e 12 ( 143)]
Bumke (Oswald), Landlaufige Irrtiimer in der Beurteihmg von
Geistesla-anken. 8vo, pp. 80. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (ix. 58) : Wiesbaden 1908. [R 20 f 9 (58)]
tiber die Korperlichen Begleiterscheinungen psychischer
Vorgange. 8vo, pp. 16. Grenzfragen des Nerven rmd Seelen-
lebens (X. 68) : Wiesbaden 1909. [R 20 f 10 (68)]
Bunzen (L. van), Wunder und Ratsel der Stigmatisation im Lichte
von Wissenschaft, Kirche, Okkultismus mid Neugeist imter
besonderer Beriicksichtigmig der stigmatisierten Therese Neu-
mann in Kormersreuth. Ein Beitrag sur Frage der Passions-
Ekstasen und Stigmatisationen. 8vo, pp. 28. Die Okkulte
Welt (no. 177) : Pfullmgen [1927]. [R 20 e 15 (177)]
Burns (C. Delisle), The Contact between Minds. A Metaphysical
Hypothesis. 8vo, pp. x. 138. London 1923. [26 g 31]
Burnett (Charles T.), Splitting the Mind : an Experimental Study of
Normal Men. 8vo,pp.xi. 132. Psychological Monographs (xxxiv.
2: 155): Princeton and Albany "1925. [25 a 34 (155)]
Burrow (N. Trigant), The Determination of the Position of a Momen-
tary Impi'ession in the TemjDoral Course of a Moving Visual
Impression. 8vo, pp. 63, 3 diagrams. The Psychological
Review : Psychological Monographs (xi. 4 : 47, The Johns
Hoi^kins Studies in Philosophy and Psychology, no. 3 : Studies
from the Johns Hopkins Psychological Laboi'atory, no. 2) :
Lancaster and Baltimore, September 1909. [25 all (47)]
Butler (Cuthbert), Western Mysticism. The teaching of SS. Augus-
tine, Gregory and Bernard on contemplation and the contem-
plative life. Neglected chapters in the history of religion.
8vo, pp. xxxii. 352. Second edition, with afterthoughts.
London 1927. [22 b 14]
[Journ. xxiv. 163.]
108] Lihranj Catalogue, 1927-1928 139
Caillet (Albert L.), Manuel Bibliographique des Sciences Psychiques
ou Occultcs. Sciences des Mages. Hermetique. Astrologie.
Kabbale. Frane-Ma9onnerie. Medecine ancienne. Mesmerisms.
Sorcellerie. Singularites. Aberrations de tout ordre. Curio-
sites. Sources Bibliograjohiques at Documentaires sur ces
sujets. Etc. 8vo, pp. Ixvii. 531 +iii. 533 +767, folding table,
3 vols. Paris 1913. [R21 h 10-12]
Cannaert (J. B.), Olim. Proces des Sorcieres en Belgic[ue, sous
Philijipe II et le Gouvernement des Archiducs, tires d'actes
judiciaires et de documents inedits. 8vo, pp. vii. 150, 2 ill.
Gand 1847. [21 e 3]
Carr (H. Wildon), Translation, with an Introduction, of Gentile (G.),
The Theory of Mind as Pure Act. [26 g 26]
The General Principle of Relativity in its Philosophical and
Historical AsjDect. 8vo, pp. viii. 200. Second edition, revised
and enlarged. London 1922. [26 g 28]
Carr (Harvey), A Visual Illusion of Motion during Eye Closure. 8vo,
jDp. V. 127, 10 diagrams. The Psychological Review : Mono-
graph Supplements (vii. 3 : 31) : Lancaster and Baltimore,
August 1906. [25 a 7 (31)]
Carrington (Hereward), Higher Psychical Development (Yoga Philo-
sophy). An Outline of the Secret Hindu Teachings. 8vo,
pp. XV. 296, diagrams and 4 jalates. London 1920. [17 e 14]
Your Psychic Powers and how to develop them. 8vo,
pp. xix. 358. New York 1923. [5 e 18]
[Cassels (Walter Richard)], SuiDernatural Religion : an Inquiry into
the Reality of Divine Revelation. 8vo, pp. xvi. 920. Popular
edition, carefully revised. London 1902. [17 c 16]
Castelot (F. Jollivet), Editor of Societe Alchimique de France, Les
" Nouveaux Horizons." [13 li 11]
Cavtio Criminalis ; Seu De Processibvs contra Sagas Liber. Ad Magis-
stratvs Germaniae hoc tempore necessarius, Tum autem Con-
siliariis, et Confessariis Princijjuum, Inquisitoribus, ludicibus,
Aduocatis, Confessariis Reorum, Concionatoribus, eaeterisqj
lectu vtilissimus. Avctore Incerto Theologo Romano [Spee].
Preface by Joannes Gronaeus. 8vo, pp. [xvi]. 459. [i]. Franco-
fvrti 1632. [R 12 aa 18]
[Lacking two leaves, images 69-70 and 75-76, which are sujspliecl
m MS.]
Cavalli (V.) and Zingaropoli (F.), Occultismo e Misticismo nel Miracolo
di S. Geimaro. Considerazioni Critiche. Sanguinis mysterium.
8vo, pp.viii. 199, 6 ill. Napoli]921. '
[22 b 4]
[A study of miracles and supernormal phenomena connected
with blood.]
140 Society for Psychical Research [part
Chambers (Arthur), Introductory Note to Tweedale (C. L.), Man's
iSurviva] after Death. [24 a 2]
Man and the Spiritual World as disclosed by the Bible. 8vo,
pp. xvi. 293. Thirty-fourth edition. London 1920. [17 e 10]
Charma (A.) Du Sommeil. 8vo, i^p. iii. 104. Paris 1851.
[3cl0(l)]
Charpentier (John), Coleridge, le Somnambule Sublime. 8vo, pp.
291. Paris 1928 [or rather, 1927]. [17 f 8]
[With a bibliography.]
Chasse, La, donnee aux Espouvantables Esprits du Chasteau de
Bicestre pres la ville de Paris par la demolition qui en a este
faite. Avec les Estranges Tintamarres et Effroyables Apjaari-
tions qui s'y sont toujours veiis. 8vo, pp. 12. Paris 1634
[colophon : 1875]. [R 20 d 39]
[A type facsimile, jDrmted on jsarchment. With a MS. note
on the demolition of the Castle and with a contemporary view
of it by CI. Chastillon pasted in.]
Chilcott (Catherine M.), Streeter (B. H.), Macmurray (J.) and Russell
(A. S.), Adventure : the Faith of Science and the Science of
Faith. 8vo, ijp. ix. 247. London 1927. [26 h 20]
Child (S. T.), Water Finding. 8vo, pp. 16, 6 portraits and ill.
Ipswich [Suffolk 1910]. [RDo 2 (6)]
[A dowser's prospectus, with testimonials.]
Christmas-Dircking-Holmfeld (Edward von), Wunder. Ein Handbuch
der spiritistischen Thatsachen mid Lehren. Einzig autorisierte
Uebersetzung aus dem Danischen von Ernst Brausewetter.
8vo, pp. 259. Leipzig 1896. [23 f 16]
Claus (H.), Mein System der Wasseradern-Querdranung (Km'z-
draming). 8vo, pp. 34-61, 15 diagrams. [6 132(11)]
[Part of Schriften des Verhands zur Kldrtmg der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1928), Heft 11].
Cleather (Alice Leighton), H. P. Blavatsky: a Great Betrayal. By
Alice Leighton Cleather, One of Her PuidIIs. 8vo, pp. viii. 97.
Calcutta 1922. [8 c 8]
[With a bibliography.]
H. P. Blavatsky as I knew her. With an Addendum by
Basil Crump. 8vo, pp. xii. 76, 3 portraits and facsimile.
Calcutta and Simla 1923. [8 c 9]
H. P. Blavatsky, her Life and Work for Humanity. By A. L.
Cleather, One of Her Pupils. 8vo, pp. vi. 125, portrait.
Calcutta 1922. [8 c 7]
[With a bibliography.]
Clinias, [Extracts], in lamblichus. Life of Pythagoras. [8 e 10]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 141
Clodd (Edward), The Question :
" If a man die, shall he live again ?
"
Job xiv. 14. A brief history and examination of modern
spiritualism. With a postscript by H. E. Armstrong. Svo,
pp.314. London 1917. [6 d 15]
Coates (James), How to Thought-read : a Manual of Instruction in
the strange and mystic in daily life, psychic iDhenomena, includ-
ing Hypnotic, Mesmeric, and Psychic States, Mind and Muscle
Reading, Thovight Transference, Psychometry, Clairvoyance,
and Phenomenal Spiritualism. Svo, pp. 128. Twenty-third
thousand. London n.d. [10 f 10]
Human Magnetism, or How to HyjDnotise. A practical
handbook for students of mesmerism. With ten plates showing
induction of phenomena experimental and curative. Svo,
pp. xvi. 253. New and revised edition. London n.d. [15 g 22]
Cock (Wm. Hendy), Life in the Physical and Sj^iritual Worlds. Svo.
pp. 24. London 1915.
Collingwood (R. G.), Esthetic, in Mind, The. [9 e 19]
Colvin (Stephen S.), Editor of Studies from the Psychological Labora-
tory of the University of Illinois. [25 a]
Coover (John Edgar), Formal Discipline from the Standpoint of
Experimental Psychology. Svo, pp. viii. 307, 37 diagrams and
ill. Psychological Monographs (xx. 3 : 87) : Princeton and
Lancaster, January 1916. [25 a 20 (87)]
[With a bibliography.]
Coudrier, Baguette Divinatoire. La Baguette de Coudrier a-t-elle la
vertu d'indiquer les Sources, les Tresors, les Bornes cachees et
les Meurtriers ? Svo, pp. 137-154. [RDo 1 (5)]
[Part of a book, c. 1825.]
Coue (£mile), La Maitrise de Soi-Meme i^ar I'Autosuggestion Con-
sciente. Svo, pjj. 118. New edition, 25th thousand. Nancy
et Paris 1922. [RP 9 (3)]
Craig (Catherine Taylor), The Fabric of Dreams. Dream Lore and
Dream Interpretation, Ancient and Modern. Svo, pp. xi. 380.
London 1918. [3 c 27]
Crane (Harry W.), A Study in Association Reaction and Reaction
Time, with an Attempted Application of Results in Determining
the Presence of Guilty Knowledge. Svo, pp. iii. 61. xii, 5
diagrams and 2 folding tables. The Psychological Monographs
(xviii. 4 : 80) : Princeton and Lancaster, March 1915.
[25 a 18 (80)
Crawley (Frederick James), Survival—my Quota. Svo, pp. 32, 8 ill.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne 1927. [RS 16 (6)]
Critical and Experimental Studies from the University of Illinois.
Edited by Madison Bentley. Svo, pp. iii. 94, 20 diagrams, fac-
similes and ill. and 1 folding table. Psychological Monographs
(xxx. 3 : 136) : Princeton and Lanca.ster 1921. [25 a 30 (136)]
142 Society for Psychical Research [part
Crito, Prudence and Prosperity, in lamblichus, Life of Pythagoras.
[8 e 10]
Crookes (Sir W.), Noiivelles Experiences sur la Force Psychique.
Recherches sur les Phenomenes du Spiritiialisme. Translated
by J. Alidel. 12mo, pp. iii. 200, 18 diagrams and ill. [On
wrajsper : Douzieme edition.] Paris 1897. [5 b 42]
Crosland ( Harold E..), A Qualitative Analysis of the Process of For-
getting. 8vo, pp. iii. 159. The Psychological Monographs
(xxix. 1 : 130) : Princeton and Lancaster 1921. [25 a 29 (130)]
[With a bibliography.]
Crump (Basil), Addendum to Cleather (A. L.), H. P. Blavatsky as I
knew her. [8 c 9]
Cunningham (G. Watts), Problems of Philosophy: an Introductory
Survey. With a Foreword by Viscount Haldane. 8vo, pp. xxi.
453. Modern Thinkers" Library : London, Calcutta, Sydney
1925. [26 h 9]
[With a bibliography.]
Curicque (J. M.), Voix ProiDhetiques ou Signes, Apparitions et Pre-
dictions Modernes touchant les grands evenements de la Chre-
tiente au xix" siecle et vers I'approche de la fin des temps. 12mo,
pp. liv. 623 + 720, 2 vols. Fifth edition, corrected and enlarged.
Paris, Bruxelles, Luxembourg 1872. [17 b 15-16]
[Vol i : Signes et apparitions prophetiques ; vol. ii : Pro-
pheties modernes proprement dites.]
Dallas (H. A.), The Value of Studies in Psychical Research. 8vo,
]jp. 9. Crawley, Sussex, n.d. [RPR 11 (7)]
Dallenbach (Karl M.), Editor of American Journal of Psychology, The,
Index of Volumes I-XXX. [2 f ]
Danzel (Theodor-Wilhelm), Magie imd Geheimwissenschaft in ihrer
Bedeutung fiir Kultur und Kulturgeschichte. 8vo, pp. xvi. 213,
38 ill. Stuttgart 1924. [22 e 4]
Das (Bhagavan), The Science of the Emotions. 8vo, pp. xxxvi. 556.
Third edition, revised and enlarged. Adyar 1924. [9 e 12]
[On the psychology and philosophy of the emotions.]
D'Assigny (Marius) Translation of Drelincourt (C), The Christian's
Defence against the fears of death. [R 12 b 28]
Daumer (G. Fr.), Der Mystagog. Eine Sammlung von Abhandlungen,
Mittheilungen unci factischen Belegen verschiedener Art zum
Behufe der Einfiihrung in die Geheimnisse der Natur, der
Geschichte, des menschlichen Wesens und der jenseitigen
Existenzen imd Zustande. 8vo.
1. Abtheihmg : 1. Band. Das Geisterreich in Glauben,
Vorstellung, Sage und Wirkliclikeit. jap. xxiii. 340. Dresden
1867. [17 b 13]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 143
Daumer (G. Fr.) —
Der Tod des Leibes—kein Tod der Seele. Zeugnisse und
Thatsachen der Jahrhunderte vor und nach Christua fiir den
Glauben an Unsterblichkeit. Zur Belehrimg imd zum Trost
fiir Zweifelnde zusammengestellt. 8vo, pp. viii. 280. Dresden
1865. [23 a 31]
•
Der Zukunftsidealismus der Vorwelt, namentlich was
die christlichen Dinge beziiglichen Ahnungen, Seherblieke,
Erwartungen, Mysterienbilder vind anticipirenden Religions-
culte des druidischen, romischeii, griechischen, phonizischen,
agyptischen und amerikanischen Altertums betrifft. Nach-
gewiesen und in's Licht gesetzt. (Nebst einer zeitgeschicht-
liehen Zugabe betreffend den " deutschen Mercur " und die
" altkatholische Reformbewegung " ). 8vo, pp. viii. 84.
Regensburg 1874. [R 27 g]
David (Albert A., Bishop of Edmundsbury and Ipswich), Intro-
duction to Fawkes (F. A.), The Riddle of Life after Death.
[24 e 28]
De Brath (Stanley), Editor of British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.,
Quarterly Transactions. [R 18 h]
De Camp (J. Edgar), A Study of Retroactive Inhibition. 8vo, pp.
iii. 69. The Psychological Monographs (xix. 4 : 84) : Princeton
and Lancaster, August 1915. [25 a 19 (84)]
[With a bibliography.]
[Defoe (Daniel)], A True Relation of the Apparition of Mrs Veal,
after her Death, to Mrs Bargrave, in Drelincourt (C), The
Christian's Defence against the Fears of Death. [R 12 b 28]
Dejeune (J.), Preface to Dubois (P.), The Psychic Treatment of
Nervous Disorders. [10 d 8]
Delage (Yves), Le Reve. fitude psychologique, philosophique et
litteraire. 8vo, pp. xv. 696. Paris [1924]. [3 d 7]
[With a bibliography.]
Des Landrats von Uslar Arbeiten mit der Wiinschelrute in Siidwest-
afrika. 8vo, pp. 26. Sehriften des Verbands ziu" Klarimg der
Wiinschelrutenfrage (Heft 1) : Stuttgart 1912. [6 i 3l (1)]
Diefenbach (Johann), Der Hexenwahn vor und nach der Glaubens-
spaltung in Deutschland. 8vo, pp. viii. 360. Mainz 1886.
[21 e 7]
Diener des Gottlichen Wortes, Ein, Bescheidentliche Erorterung der
Frage : Ob die Seligen im Himmel fur ihre Hinterlassene auf
Erden insgemem und insonderheit beten ? Auf Begehren
entworffen. 4to, pp. 12. Leipzig 1727. [R 20 d 35]
Dijkgraaf (C. W.), Editor of Theosophical Society, The : Federation
of European Sections, Transactions. 8tli. [7 li 8]
144 Society for Psychical Research [part
Dillingham (Louise Bulkley), The Creative Imagination of Theophile
Gautier. A Study in Literary Psychology. 8vo, pp. x. 355.
Psychological Monographs (xxxvii. 1 : 170) : Princeton and
Albany 1527. [25 a 37 (170)]
[With a bibliography.]
Dingwall (E. J.), How to go to a Medium. A manual of instruction.
Foreword by Maurice B. Wright. 8vo, pp. xiv. 98. London
1927. [5 b 27]
[Jottrii. xxiv. 180.]
Dippel (Joseph), Der Neuere Spiritismus. In seinem Wesen auf-
gezeigt mid nach seinem Werthe gepriift. 8vo, pp. 127. Wiirz-
burg 1881. [23 d 25]
Dirckinck-Holmfeld (C), Spiritualismus imd Spiritismus, ihr Werth
und Zweck, mid kurze Tlieodicee zur Wiirdigmig derselben.
8vo, pp. 64. Leipzig 1880. [RS 16 (3)]
Discourse on Witchcraft, A. Occasioned by a Bill now depending in
Parliament, to repeal the Statute made in the first Year of the
Reign of King James I, Intituled, An Act against Conjuration,
Witchcraft, and dealing with evil and wicked Spirits. Contain-
ing, Seven Chapters on the following Heads. I. To prove that
the Bible has been falsely translated in those Places which speak
of Witchcraft. II. That the Opinion of Witches, has had its
Foundation in Heathen Fables. III. That it hath been improved
by the Papal Inquisitors, seeking their own private Gain, as also
to establish the Usurped Dominion of their Foimder. IV. That
there is no such Thmg as a Witch in the Scriptures, and that
there is no such Thing as a Witch at all. V. An Answer to their
Arguments who endeavour to prove there are Witches. VI.
How the Opinion of Witches came at first into the World.
VII. The Conclusion. 8vo, pp. iv. 5-47. London 1736.
[R 12 aa 6]
Dixon (H. N.), The Divining Rod. 8vo, pp. 85-104. [RDo 2 (3)]
[Offprint from the [? Proceedhigs of the'] Northamjitonshire
Natural History Society do Field Club (September 1898), x.
With an inscription by the author.]
Dixon (Jacob), Abridgment of Hygienic Clairvoyance, in Melville (J.-),
Crystal -Gazing. [10 f 16]
Dixon (Walter E.), The Physiological Action of the Alkaloids derived
from Anhalonium Lewinii. 8vo, pp. 69-86, 8 diagrams.
[RHy 14 (7)]
[Offprint from the Journal of Physiology (18 September 1899),
xxv.]
Dodge (Raymond), An Experimental Study of Visual Fixation. 8vo,
pp. iv. 95, 13 diagrams and 2 ill. The Psychological Review :
Monograph Sujoplements (viii. 4 : 35, Studies from the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of Wesleyan University, i. 1) : Lancaster and
Baltimore, November 1907. [25 a 8 (35)]
108] Lihrary Catalogue, 1927-1928 145
Doll (Edgar A.), The Growth of Intelligence. 8vo, pp. vi. 130,
numerous diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxix. 2 : 131) :
Princeton and Lancaster 1920 [on cover: 1921]. [25 a 29 (131)]
[With a bibliography.]
Downey (June E.), Control Processes in Modified Handwriting : an
Experimental Study. 8vo, pp. vii. 148, 3 folding plates. The
Psychological Review : Psychological Monographs (ix. 1 : 37,
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of
Chicago) : Lancaster and Baltimore, April 1908. [25 a 9 (37)]
Doyle (Sir A. C), Appreciation in Johnson (G. L.), The Great Problem.
' ^
[24 d 36]
Foreword to Niisslein (H.), Catalogue of an Exhibition of
Occult Paintings. [RPR H (1*)]
Dreams and the Interpretation of them. By A Physician. 8vo,
pp. vii. 112, 8 ill. and diagrams. [London] 1925. [3 d 9]
Drelincourt (Charles), The Christian's Defence against the Fears of
Death : with seasonable directions how to prepare ourselves to
die well. Written originally in French. Translated into English
by Marius D'Assigny. With an account of the author, and his
last minutes ; and a true relation of the Apparition of Mrs Veal,
after her death, to Mrs Bargrave. [By Daniel Defoe.] 8vo, pp.
576, 5 ill. Twenty-seventh edition. Liverpool 1810. [R 12 b 28]
Dresser (Horatio W.), The Open Vision : a Study of Psychic Pheno-
mena. 8vo, pp. xi. 352. London [1920 ?) [17 f 10]
Driesch (Hans), Preface to Pagenstecher (G.), Die Geheimnisse der
Psychometrie. [6 g 19]
The History & Theory of Vitalism. Authorised translation
by C. K. Ogden. Revised and in part re-written for the English
edition by the author. 8vo, pp. viii. 239. London 1914. [26 g 7]
Problems of Modern Psychology. 8vo, pp. 113-117. [R 27 f]
[Part of The Quest (London, January 1927), xviii].
Duboin (Eloy), Introduction to Proces de Spirites a Viry^ [21 e 11]
Dubois (Paul), The Psychic Treatment of Nervous Disorders (The
Psychoneuroses and their Moral Treatment). Translated and
edited by Smith Ely Jelliffe and William A. White. [Preface
by J. Dejerine.] 8vo, pp. xviii. 466. Sixth edition, revised.
New York and London 1909. [10 d 8]A
The Psychological Origin of Mental Disorders. Authorised
translation by E. G. Richards. 8vo, pp. 87. New York and
London 1913. [10 d 14]
Dubray (Charles A.), Tlie Theory of Psychical Dispositions. 8vo,
pp. vii. 170. The Psychological Review: Monograph Supple-
ments (vii. 2 : 30, Psychological Studies from the Catholic
University of America) : Lancaster and New York, October
1905. [25 a 7 (30)]
[With a bibhograjDhy.]
146 Society for Psychical Research [part
Du Potet de Sennevoy (J. D., Baron), La Magie devoilee, ou Principes
de science occulte. 8vo, jDp. xv. 334, portrait, diagrams and
ill. Third edition. Paris 1893. [21 c 4]
DuPrel (Karl), Hartmann contra Aksakoff. 8vo, pp. 13. [RPR 11 (1)]
[With an inscription by the author. Oftprint from Sphinx
(Gera 1891), xi.]
Die Mystik der alten Griechen. Tempelschlaf—Orakel—
•
Mysterien—Damon des Sokrates. 8vo, pp. viii. 170. Leipzig
1888. [22 d 7]
Phanomenologie des Spiritismus. 8vo, pp. 17.
[RPR 11 (2)]
[Offprint from Sphinx (Gera 1890), x.]
Zur Geschichte des Okkultismus. 8vo, pp. 8. [RPR 11 (3)]
[With an inscription by the author. Offprint from Sphinx
(Gera 1891), xii.]
and Forsboom (B.), Translation of Brackett (E, A.),
Materialisierte Erscheinungen. [5 f 20]
Duval (Cesar), Editor of Proces de Sorciers a Viry. [21 ell]
Eberhard (Johann Peter), Abhandlung von der Magie, in Martius
(J. N.), LTnterricht in der naturlichen Magie. [R 12 a 43]
Eckhartshausen (Karl von), Die Wiinschelrute. Neu herausgegeben
an den Aufschliissen zur Magie auf Grund gepriifter Erfahrungen
iiber verborgene philosoiDhische Wissenschaften und verdeckte
Geheimnisse der Natur. Preface by Heinz Bauer. 8vo, pp. 29.
Third edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 142)] : Pfullingen
[1926 ?] [R 20 e 12 (142)]
Ehrenfels (Christian von). Sexual ethik. 8vo, pp. iv. 99. Grenz-
fragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (ix. 56) : Wiesbaden 1908.
[R 20f 9 (56)]
Ellis (Robinson), Translation of Quintilian, Pseudo-, The Tenth
Declamation. [RAH 4 (3)]
Encyclopedie des Sciences Occultes. Litroduction by M. C. Poinsot.
8vo, pp. 630, numerous ill. Paris 1925. [R 21 h 36]
Ennemoser (Joseph), Der Magnetismus im Verhaltnisse zur Natur
und Religion. (Mit einem Anhang iiber das Tischriicken.) 8vo,
pp. XX. 596. Second, improved edition. Stuttgart und Tiibin-
gen 1853. [16 d 9]
Erastus (Thomas), Devx Dialogves tovchant le povvoir des sorcieres
et de la pvnition c^v'elles meritent, in Wier (J.), Histoires,
Dispvtes et Discovrs, ii. [R 21 i 10]
Erzzauberer Cagliostro, Der. Die Dokumente uber ihn nebst zwolf
Bildbeigaben. Edited by Johannes von Guenther. 8vo, pjD.
XV. 508. Munchen 1919. [8 d 1]
108] Lihranj Catalogue, 1927-1928 147
Eschenmayer (C. A.), Conflict zwischen Himmel und Holle, an dem
Damon eines besessenen Madchens beobachtet von Professor
C A. Eschenmayer in Kirchheim unter Terk. Nebst emem
Wort an Dr. Strauss. 8vo, pp. xvi. 215. Tubingen imd
Leipzig 1837. [R 12 aa 1]
Eurvphamus, Concerning Human Life, in lamblichus, Life of Pytha-
goras. [8 e 10]
Ewald (G.), Die Stigmatisierte von Koimersreuth. Untersuchimgs-
bericht und gutachtliche Stellungsnahme. 8vo, pp. 49. Mun-
chen 1927. [RPR 11 (11)]
Ewers (Hanns Heinz), Editor of Belcier (J. de), Memoiren einer
Besessenen. t^l c 16]
Farigoule (Louis), Eyeless Sight. A Study of Extra-Retmal Vision
and the Paroptic Sense. Translated by C. K. Ogden. 8vo,
pp. X. 228, diagrams. London & New York 1924. [10 g 4]
Fawkes (F. Attfield), The Riddle of Life after Death. Introduction
by A. A. David. 8vo, pp. ix. 84. London 1923. [24 i 28]
Fechner (Gustav Theodor), Erinnerungen an die letzten Tage der
Odlehre und ihres Urhebers. 8vo, pp. iii. 55. Leipzig 1876.
[RP 9(1)]
Zend-Avesta oder uber die Dinge des Himmels imd des
Jenseits. Von Standpunkt der Naturbetrachtung von G. T.
Fechner. Dritte Auflage. Besorgt von Kurd Lasswitz. 8vo,
pp. xxiii. 360 +iv. 439, 2 vols. Hambvu-g und ^®^P^^p26
M^4 15]
Feingold (Gustave A.), Recognition and Discrimination. 8vo, pp.
vi. 128. The Psychological Monographs (xviii. 2 : 78, Studies
from the Psychological Laboratory of Harvard University) :
Princeton and Lancaster, February 1915. [25 a 18 (78)]
[With a bibliography.]
Feis (Oswald), Hector Berlioz: eine pathographische Studie. 8vo,
pp. iii. 28. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xiu. 81) :
Wiesbaden 1911. [R 20 f 12 (81)]
Studien iiber die Genealogie imd Psychologic der Musiker.
8vo, pp. 97. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xi.
71) : Wiesbaden 1910. [R20 f 11 (71)]
[To this part is prefixed a classified Hst of nos. 1-70 of the
Grenzfragen.^
Felden (Emil), Der Spiritismus und die anderen okkulten Systeme
unserer Zeit. Aberglaube—Wiinschelrute—Tischrucken und
Tischklopfen—Das Unterbewusstsein—Spiritismus—Christliche
Wissenschaft — Theosophie — Anthroposophie — Almvmgen
—
Telepathie—Weissagimgen—Was wird nach dem Tode ? 8vo,
pp.116. Eleventh-fifteenth edition. Leipzig [1921 ? ].
[RS 15 (4)]
148 Society for Psychical Research [part
Ferguson (Ian), The Philosophy of Witchcraft. 8vo, pp. 219.
Lomloii, Calcutta, Sydney 1924. [21 e 20]
[With a bibliography.]
Fernald (Grace Maxwell), The Effect of Achromatic Conditions on the
Color Phenomena of Peripheral Vision. 8vo, f)p. iv. 91. The
Psychological Review : Psychological Monographs (x. 3 : 42,
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of
Chicago) : Lancaster and Baltimore, August 1909.
[With a bibhography.] [25 a 10 (42)]
Fernald (Mabel Ruth), The Diagnosis of Mental Imagery. 8vo, pp.
V. 169. The Psychological Monographs (xiv. 1 : 58, Studies
from the Psychological Laboratory of the LTniversity of Chicago) :
Princeton, Baltimore and Lancaster, February 1912.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 14 (58)]
Fernberger (Samuel W.), An Introspective Analysis of the Process
of Comparing. 8vo, pp. iii. 161. Psychological Monographs
(xxvi. 6: 117): Princeton and Lancaster 1919. [25 a 26 (117)]
On the Relation of the Methods of Just Perceptible Differ-
ences and Constant Stimuli. Bvo, iv. 81. The Psychological
Monographs (xiv. 4: 61): Princeton and Lancaster, January
1913. [25 a 14 (61)]
Ferree (C. E.) and Rand (G.), Radiometric Apparatus for Use in
Psychological and Physiological Optics. Including a Discus-
sion of tlie Various Types of Instruments that have been used
for Measuring Light Intensities. 8vo, pp. xvi. 65, 6 diagrams
and ill. The Psychological Monographs (xxiv. 2 : 103) :
Princeton and Lancaster 1917. [25 a 24 (103)]
Fichte (Immanuel Hermann von), Der neuere Spiritualismus, sein
Werth und seine Tiiuschmigen. Eine anthrojoologische Studie.
8vo, pp. iii. 105. Leipzig 1878. [RS 16 (1)]
Fiddick (Thomas), Dowsing. With an account of some Original
Experiments. 8vo, pp. 39, 1 ill. Camborne [1913].
[RDo 2 (8)]
[Chiefly an accomit of the author's patent " dowsing cone."]
Fierville (Ch.), I^tude sur la Psychologic du Sommeil, d'apres les
lemons faites h la Faculte des Lettres de Caen en 1862-1863 par
M. A. Charma. 8vo, pp. 96. Bayonne 1867 [or rather, 1868].
[With an inscription by A. Charma.] [3 c 10(2)]
Fife (C. W. Domville), Savage Life in the Black Sudan. An account
of an adventurous journey of exploration amongst wild little-
known tribes inhabiting swamps, dense forests, momitain-tops
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 149
& arid deserts hitherto almost unknown, with a description of
their manner of living, secret societies & mysterious & bar-
baric rites. 8vo, pp. 284, 2 maps and 31 ill. London 1927.
[Including a chapter on the Spiritualistic Nubas.] [22 e 8]
Fischer (Charlotte Rust) and Woolley (H. T.), Mental and Physical
Measurements of Working Children. 8vo, pp. iv. 247, numerous
diagrams. The Psychological Monographs (xviii. 1 : 77, Studies
from the Laboratory of the Vocation Bureau, Cincinnati, Ohio) :
Princeton and Lancaster, December 1914. [25 a 18 (77)]
Fisher (Sarah Carolyn), The Process of Generalizing Abstraction ;
and its Product, the General Concept. 8vo, pp. v. 213, 4 folding
plates in colours and 1 folding table. Psychological Monographs
(xxi. 2 : 90) : Princeton and Lancaster, April 1916.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 21 (90)]
Fordham (W. H.), Translation, with an Introduction, of Mager (H.),
The Discovery and Investigation of Subterranean Waters.
[RDo 2 (14)]
Forel (A.), Abstinenz oder Massigkeit ? 8vo, pp. 21. Grenzfragen
des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xi. 74) : Wiesbaden 1910.
[R 20f 11 (74)]
Forsboom (Bernhard) and Du Prel (K.), Translation of Brackett (E. A.),
Materialisierte Erscheimmgen. [5 f 0]
Forthuny (Pascal), Preface to Osty (E.), Une Faculty de Connaissance
Supra-normale. Pascal Forthuny. [5 b 23]
Frangais (J.), L'figlise et la Sorcellerie. Precis Historique, suivi des
Documents officials, des Textes principaux et d'un Proces
inedit. 12mo, pp. 272. Bibliotheque de Critique Religieuse :
Paris 1910. [21 e 16]
France (Vicomte Henry de), La Baguette et le pendule des sourciers.
A propos d'lm congres recent. 8vo, pp. 689-710. [RDo 2 (12)]
[Part of Etudes (Paris, 20 September 1926), clxxxvui.]
Franklin (Marjorie), Factors in the Growth of Mind. 8vo, jap. 16.
[Offprint from The Parents' Review (May 1928.)]
Franz (Shepherd Ivory), Introduction to Boring (E. G.), Learning in
Dementia Praecox. [25 a 15 (63)]
Editor of Psychological Monographs. [25 a]
On the Functions of the Cerebrum : the Occipital Lobes.
With the co-operation of Gonzalo R. Lafora. 8vo, pp. iii. 118,
96 111. The Psychological Monographs (xiii. 4: 56): Princeton,
Baltimore and Lancaster, September 1911. [25 a 13 (56) |
[With a bibliography.]
— On the Functions of the Cerebrum. I. Symptomatological
Differences associated with similar Cerebral Lesions in the
150 Society for Psychical Research [part
frame. II. Variations in Distribution of the Motor Centers.
With the assistance of J. Duerson Stout. 8vo, pp. v. 162. The
Psychological Monographs (xix. 1 : 9) : Princeton and Lan-
caster, April 1915. [25 a 19 (81)]
[With a bibliography.]
Franz (V.), Der Lebensprozess der Nervenelemente. 8vo, pp. v. 58,
28 ill. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und iSeelenlebens (xiv. 92) :
Wiesbaden 1913. [R 20 f 14 (92)]
Franzius (Georg), Bericht iiber die Tagung des Verbandes zur
Klarung der Wiinschelrutenfrage in Halle a. S. 18.-20. Sep-
tember 1913. 8vo, pp. 96, 12 diagrams, jalans and portraits.
Schriften des Verbands ziir Klarung der Wiinschelrutenfrage
(Heft 6) : Stuttgart 1914. [6 i 34 (6)]
Beurteilung der Versuche vom Standpunkte der Ruten-
gangerforschung. 8vo, pp. 61-64. Schriften des Verbands zur
Klarung der Wiinschelrutenfrage (Beilage zu Heft 5) : [Stuttgart
1913]. [6 131 (5)]
Einige Versuche iiber die Einwirkimgen elektrischer Leitungen
auf den Rutenganger. 8vo, pp. 3-14. [6 i 31 (4)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Klarung der Wiinschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1913), Heft 4.]
Die Rutengangerversuche der Miinchener Wasserversorgung
zur Auffindung von Wasserleitungsschaden in den Jahren 1 909- 1 1
.
8vo, pp. 55-60. [61 i 34 (5)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Klarung der Wunschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1913), Heft 5.]
Franzius ( ), Schriftwechsel des Verbandes mit dem Reichs-Kolo-
nialamt iiber Erfolge mit der Wiinschelrute in Deutsch-Siidwest-
afrika. Mit einem Vorwort von Ed. Aigner imd einem Nachruf
von O. Franzius fiir G. Franzius. 8vo, pp. 3-123. [6 i 31 (7)]
Franzius (0.), Memoir in Franzius (G.), Schriftwechsel. [6 i 31 (7)]
[Freimark (Hans)], Editor of Okkulte Welt, Die. [R 20 e]
Geheimlehre und Geheimwissenschaft. 8vo, pp. 146. Bei-
trage zur Geschichte der neueren Mystik tmd Magie (Heft 1) :
Leipzig 1913. [17 g 1]
Die Revolution als psychische Massen-Erscheinimg. His-
torisch-Psychologische Studie. 8vo, pp. vi. 110. Grenzfragen
des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (no. 107) : Miinchen und Wies-
baden 1920. [R 20 f 16 (107)]
Robespierre. Eine historisch-psychologische Studie. 8vo,
pp. iii. 46. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xiv. 91) :
Wiesbaden 1913. [R 20 f 14 (91)]
[With a bibliography.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 151
[Freimark (Hans)]
—
Das Tischriicken. Seine geschiclitliche Entwicklung und
seine Bedeutung. Auf Grund der neuesten Forschungs ergeb-
nisse dargestellt. 8vo, pp. 51. Second-third edition. Die
Okkulte Welt (no. 21/22) : Pfullingen 1921. [R 20 e 2 (21-22)]
Tolstoj als Charakter. Eine Studie auf Grund seiner
Sehriften. 8vo, pp. 33. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelen-
lebens (x. 66): Wiesbaden 1909. [R 20 f 10 (66)]
Freud (S.), Beyond the Pleasure Principle. Authorized translation
from the second German edition by C. J. M. Hubback. 8vo,
pp. vii. 90. The International Psycho -analytical Library (no.
4): London-Vienna 1922. [10 h 4]
Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego. Authorized
translation by James Strachey. 8vo, pp. vii. 134. The Inter-
national Psycho -analytical Library (no. 6) : London-Vienna
1922. [10 h 6]
Freudenberg (Franz), Astrale imd elementare Einfiiisse. 8vo, pp. 28.
Die Okliulte Welt (no. 3) : Berlin [1920]. [R 20 e 1 (3)]
Freund der Erkenntnis, Editor of Geisterschriften. [R 20 e 15 (175)]
Freyd (Max), The Personalities of the Socially and the Mechanically
Inclined. A Study of the Differences in Personality Between
Men Whose Primary Interest is Social and Men Wliose Primary
Interest is in Machines. 8vo, pjj. vii. 101. Psychological
Monographs (xxxiii. 4 : 151): Princeton 1924. [25 a 33 (151)]
[With a bibliography.]
Fridrichsen (Anton), Le Probleme du Miracle dans le Christianisme
primitif. 8vo, pp. 126. iStudes d'Histoire et de Philosophie
Religieuses publiees par la Faculte de Theologie Protestante de
rUniversite de Strasbourg (fasc. 12) : Strasbourg, Paris 1925.
[17 h 16]
Friedmann (M.), tiber die Natur der Zwangsvorstellungen und ihre
Beziehungen zum Willensproblem. 8vo, pp. 102. Grenzfragen
des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xvi. 105) : Wiesbaden 1920.
[R 20 f 16 (105)]
tiber die Psychologic der Eifersucht. 8vo, pp. vii. 112.
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xii. 82) : Wiesbaden
1911. [R 20 f 12 (82)]
Friese (Robert), Translation and edition of Leben, Das, jenseits des
Grabes. [23 f 21]
Stimmen aus dem Reich der Geister. 8vo, pp. 1. 472, portrait.
Fourth edition. Leipzig 1897. [23 e 29]
Frohschammer (J.), Menschenseele und Physiologie. Eine Streit-
schrift gegen Professor Carl Vogt in Genf. 8vo, pp. vii. 212.
Miinchen 1855, [3 b 3]
152 Society for Psychical Research [PABT
From Worlds Unseen. By M. A. Ball. Coll. Oxon. Foreword by Sir
Oliver Lodge. 8vo, pp. xv. 78. London [1928]. [24 d 37]
[Journ. xxiv. 293.]
Frommann (Johann Christian), Tractatus de Fascinatione novus et
singularis, in quo Fascinatio vulgaris profligatur, naturalis con-
firmatur, & magica examtnatur ; hoc est, nec visu, nec voce
fieri posse Fascinationem probatur ; Fascinatio naturalis non
per contagium, sed alio modo explieatur ;
Magos de se nec visu,
nec voce, nec contactu, nec alio modo laedere posse roboratur,
Theologis, Jurisperitis et Medicis, praesertim animanun Sacer-
dotibus provincialibus, quibus cum variis superstitionum
monstris saepe est pugnandum, imo omnibus hoc seculo corrupto,
quo non tantum jDraviis circa fascinum sensus simpliciorum
ingenia fascinat, sed & praeservatio & curatio morbormn
verbalis (ad quam per occasionem hie fit digressio) ad ixf^v"
tendere videtur, lectu utilis. 4to, pp. [Ixxviii]. 1067. [xlv],
frontispiece. Norimbergae 1675. [R 12 bb 13]
[Fryar (Robert H.)], Editor of Walton (T.), Mental Magic. [10 f 2]
[ ], History and Mystery of the Magic Mirror, in Walton (T.),
Mental Magic. [10 f 2]
Funk (Isaac K.), The Widow's Mite and other Psychic Phenomena.
8vo, pp. xiv. 538, numerous diagrams and ill. New York and
London 1904. [5 c 27]
Furfey (Paul Hanly), Moore (T. V.) and Loughran (M. E,), Clinical and
Psychoanalytic Studies. 8vo, pp. 347-440, 2 folding tables.
Psychological Monographs (xxvii. [4] : 121, Psychological
Studies from the Catholic University of America, 5) : Princeton
and Lancaster 1919. [27 a 27 (121)]
[With a bibliography.]
Furry (William Davis), The Aesthetic Experience : its Nature and
Function in EjDistemology. 8vo, pp. xv. 155. The Psycho-
logical Review: Philosophical Monographs (1:36 [of the
Psychological Monographs], The Johns Hopkins Studies in
Philosophy and Psychology, no. 1) : Baltimore, January 1908.
[25 a 4 (36)]
Gallaeus (Sarvatius), Editor of Si/3uXX(a/foi XpT]<r/.wi. [12 bb 14]
Gallerie der neuen Prophetan, apokalyjDtischen Traumer, Geisterseher
und Revolutionsprediger. Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte der
menschlichen Narrheit. [By J. C. Adeling. Preface by K.]
8vo, pp. [vi]. 487. [iii]. Leipzig 1799. [R 12 aa 4]
[Pages 478-487 are incorrectly numbered 278-287.]
Galloway (George), The Principles of Religious Development. A
Psychological and Philosophical Study. 8vo, pp. xx. 363.
London 1909. [26 f 24]
Gamble (Eleanor A. McC), Editor of Wellasley College Studies in
Psychology. [25 a]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 153
Gardeil (A.), La Structure de I'Ame et I'Experience Mystique. 8vo,
pjj. xxxvi. 397 +iv. 370, 2 vols. Bibliotheque Theologique :
Paris 1927. [9 e 20-21]
Garnier (Adolphe), Traite des Facultes de I'Ame, comprenant This-
toire des principales theories j^sychologiques. 8vo, pp. Ixiii.
367+iii. 540+iii. 447, 3 vols. Paris 1852. [9 a 12-14]
Gataker, Leicester, Expert Water Discoverer, and Contractor of
Water Supply in all its Branches. . . . Testimonials. 8vo, pjo.
16, 2 portraits (and ill. on inside cover). [Weston-sujDer-Mare
and Bath 1896 ?] [RDo 2 (4)]
Gatewood (Esther L.), Lidividual Differences in Finger Reactions.
8vo, pp. v. 43, 8 diagrams. The Psychological Mono-
graphs (xxviii. 4 : 126) : Princeton and Lancaster 1920.
[25 a 28 (126)]
Gatewood (L. C), An Experimental Study of Dementia Praecox.
8vo, pp. iii. 71, 7 diagrams. The Psychological Review : Psy-
chological Monographs (xi. 2 : 45, Ohio State University
Psychological Studies, i. 1) : Lancaster and Baltimore, November
1909. [25 a 11 (45)]
Geisterschriften. Gedanken Heimgegangener von jenseits des Grabes.
Eingeleitet und erliiutert von einem Freunde der Erkenntnis.
8vo, pp. 32. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 175)] Pfullingen n.d.
[R 20 6 15 (175)]
Gentile (Giovanni), The Theory of Mind as Pure Act. Translated
from the third edition, with an Introduction, by H. Wildon Carr.
Svo, pp. xxviii. 280. London 1922. [26 g 26]
[With a bibliography of the author.]
Gerard (W.), Fernfiihlen und Fernwirken. Svo, pp. 43. Die
Okkulte Welt (no. 8) : Berlin [1920]. [R 20 e 1 (8)]
Wie schiitze ich mich gegen Suggestion imd Hypnose ?
Svo, pp. 36. Third-fifth edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 172)] :
Berlin n.d. [R 20 e 15 (172)]
Geschichten von Klopf- und Plagegeistern aus drei Jahrhunderten.
Herausgegeben und engeleitet von Prospero. Svo, pp. 76. [Die
Okkulte Welt (no. 173/174) ]: Berlin n.d. [R 20 e 15 (173-4)]
Givler (Robert Chenault), The Psycho-physiological Effect of the
Elements of Speech in Relation to Poetry. Svo, pp. 132. The
Psychological Monographs (xix. 2 : 82, Studies from the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of Harvard University) : Princeton and
Lancaster, April 1915. [25 a 19 (82)]
" Glove " Fight, A, about Psychics : tlio Keith-Conan Doyle Dispute.
4to, p. 23, 4 ill. (RF 37]
[On moulds of spirit hands in joaraffin wax. Part of The
Illustrated London News (London, 4 July 1925), clxvii.]
154 Society for Psijchical Research [part
Goddard (Henry Herbert), Two Souls in One Body ? A Case of Dual
Personality. A Study of a Remarkable Case : Its Significance
for Education and for the Mental Plygiene of Childhood. 8vo,
pp. xiii. 242, 8 portraits and ill. London [1928]. [1 g 9]
[Journ. xxiv. 29.3. The Case of Norma R.]
Godelmann (Johann Georg), Tractatvs de Magis, Veneficis et Lamiis,
de qve his recte cognoscendis et pvniendis, propter varias &
controversas de hac quaestione hominum sententias, vtilissimus
& cunctis ad Rerum publicarum gubernacula sedentibus maximo
necessarius, publico in Academia Rostochiana praelectus, & in
tres libros distributus. 4to, pp. [xii]. 117. [ix]. [i]. 73. [xxxiv].
152. [xxxiii]. Francoforti 1591. [R 11 a 23]
[Each part has a separate pagination, and the second and
third parts have also additional titlepages with the subtitles,
resjaectively, De Lamiis and Contra Magos, Veneficas, et Lamias.]
Goette ( ), Die Dichtmigsarbeiten an der Gothaer Talsperre zu
Tambach. 8vo, pp. 89-98, 3 diagrams. [6 131 (4)]
[Part of Sclirifteji des Verbands zur Klaning der Wunschelrnten-
frage (Stuttgart 1913), Heft 4.] [6 i 31 (4)]
Gelding (H. W.), Water Finding in Essex and District by the Divining
Rod. 8vo, pp. 16, 4 ill. Braintree [1917]. [R Do 2 (7)]
[A dowser's prospectus, with testimonials.]
Goldstein (Kurt), Die Halluzination, ihre Enstehung, ihre Ursachen
mid ihre Realitiit. 8vo, pp. iii. 72. Grenzfragen des Nerven-
und Seelenlebens (xiii. 86) : Wiesbaden 1912. [R 20 f 13 (86)]
Goze (Johann Melchior), Die grosse Lehre van dem jungsten Gerichte.
In einigen heiligen Reden abgehandelt. 8vo, pp. [xxii]. 586.
[xiv], frontispiece. Breslau imd Leipzig 1751. [R 12 bb 1 (2)]
Die Wichtigsten Abschnitte der Lehre vom Tode. In
einigen heiligen Reden abgehandelt. 8vo, pp. [xvi]. 580. [xviii].
Second edition. Bresslau mid Leijjzig 1753. [R 12 bb 1 (1)]
Grabinski (Bruno), Spuk- und Geistererscheinungen oder was sonst ?
Eine kritische Untersuchung. 8vo, pp. xiv. 444, 16 ill. Hildes-
heim 1922. [5 a 18]
Graham (John W.), The Di\'inity in Man. 8vo, pp. 316. London
1927. [7 h 15]
[Journ. xxiv. 160.]
Grashey ( ), Hirt ( ), Schrenck-Notzing (A. von) and Preyer (W.),
Der Pi'ozess Czynski. Thatbestand desselben mid Gutacliten
iiber Willensbeschrankung durch liypnotisch-suggestiven Ein-
fluss abgegeben vor dem oberbayerischen Schwurgericht zu
Miinchen. 8vo, pp. iii. 102. Stuttgart 1895. [RHy 14(5)]
Grassberger (R.), Die Wiinschelrute imd andere psychophysische
Probleme. Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte der " okkulten Bestre-
bmigen." I. Die Wiinschelrute. II. Die Suggestion in der
Wiiiischelrutenfrage und im praktischen Leben. III. Neueres
108] Library Catalogue, 1927^1928 155
iiber die Wiinschelnite.—Die Wiinsclielrute iiiid die Wiener
Wasserfrage (Gefahrdung der Wieiiei- Hocliquellenleitving dm-ch
die Raxseilscliwebebahn). Mit einem Anhaiig : Zur Geschichte
des Kampfes fiir und gegen die Razseilschwebebahn. 8vo, pp.
72. 6 ill. and diagrams. Second, improved and much enlarged
edition. Leipzig imd Wien 1926. [RDo 2 (15)]
Graves (Robert), The Meaning of Dreams. 8vo, pp. xi. 167. London
1924. [3d 8]
Gregory (J. W.), Water Divining. 4to, pji. 19, 8 diagrams. Public
Works, Roads and Transport Congress, 1927 (PajDer no. 15T) :
[London 1927]. [RT 3 (12)]
Grenside (Dorothy), The Meaning of Dreams. 8vo, pp. v. 120.
London 1923. [3 d 2]
Griffits (Charles H.), Individual Differences in Imagery. 8vo, pjD. iii.
91, 4 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxxvii. 3 : 172) :
Princeton and Albany 1927. [25 a 37 (172)]
[With a bibliography.]
Grobe-Wutischky (Arthur), Das Geheimnis der Lebenszahlen. Ein
Bhek ins rechnende Leben. 8vo, pp. 46. Die Okkulte Welt
(no. 19) : Pfullingen [1920]. [R 20 e 2 (19)]
Gronaeus (Joannes), Preface to Cavtio Criminahs. [R 12 aa 18]
[Grosius (Henning)], Magica, Seu mirabilium historiarum de Spectris
et Apparitionibvs Spiritvvm : Item, De Magicis &. Diabohcis
incantationibus : De Miraculis, Oracuhs, Vaticinijs, Diuina-
tionibus, Praedictionibus, Visionibus, Revielationibus, & alijs
eiusmodi multis ac varijs praestigijs, ludibrijs, & impostiu-is
malorum Daemonum Libri II. Ex probatis, et fide dignis
historiarum scriptoribus dihgenter collecti. 8vo, pp. [xvi]. 478.
[xxviii]. Islebiae 1597. [R 12 bb 6]
Grumbine (J. C. F.), Clairvoyance. The system of Philosophy con-
cerning the Divinity of Clairvoyance. Also a Treatise on
Divination and Crystal Reading. 8vo, jDp. 139. London n.d.
[lOf 12]
Telepathy or the Science of Thovight Transference. 8vo, pp.
124. London n.d. [10fl3]
Grundig (Carl), Translation of Lombroso (C), Hypnotische und
spiritistische Forschungen. [24 a 5]
Guenon (Rene), L'Erreur Spirite. 8vo, pp. 407. Paris 1923. [24 d 24]
L'Homme et son devenir selon le Vedanta. 8vo, pp. 266.
[On cover : Troisieme Edition.] Paris 1925. [22 e 10]
Guenther (Johannes von). Editor of Erzzauberer Cagliostro, Der.
[8d 1]
Guggenheimer (Samuel H.), The Einstein Theory explained and
analyzed. 8vo, pp. xi. 326. New York 1925. [26 h 8]
Guy (Hon. J. Allan), Preface to Miller (E. M.), Brain Capacity and
Intelligence. [RP 9 (6)]
156 Society for Psychical Research [part
Hadfield (J. H.), Psychotherapy, in Mind, The. [9 e 19]
Haenel (H.), Zur physiologischen Mechanik der Wimschelrute. Mit
einem Anhang : Beobachtungen an dein Rutenganger Donat].
8vo, pp. 42, 13 ill. Schriften des Verbands zur Klarung der
Wiinschelrutenfrage (Heft 8) : Stuttgart 1918. [6 i 32 (8)]
Haines (Thomas H.), Editor of Ohio State University Psychological
Studies. [25 a]
Mental Measurement of the Blind. A Provisional Point
Scale and Data for a Year Scale. 8vo, pp. iii. 86, 3 diagrams.
The Psychological Monographs (xxi. 1 : 89) : Princeton and
Lancaster, April 1916. [25 a 21 (89)]
Haldane (Richard Burdon, Viscouiat Haldane of Cloan), Foreword to
Cunningham (G. W.), Problems of Philosophy. [26 h 9]
Hall (W. Winslow), Observed Illuminates. 8vo, pp. 191. London
1926. [IV f 5]
Hambling (Horace S.). Editor of Medium, The. [13 h 9 (5)]
Hamel (Ignatius A.), A Study and Analysis of the Conditioned
Reflex. 8vo, pp. 65, 7 diagrams. Psychological Monographs
(xxvii. [1] : 118, Psychological Studies from the Catholic Univer-
sity of America, 2) : Princeton and Lancaster 1919. [25 a 27 (118)]
[With a bibliography.]
Hanig (Hans), Ausscheidung der Empfindimg und Astralleib. 8vo,
pp. 32. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 176) : Pfullingen [1927].
[R 20 e 14 (176)]
Hardinge (Emma), Editor of Unseen Universe, The. [7 e 8]
Harper (Edith K.), St Francis of Assisi, the "Troubadour of God."
8vo, pp. 78, portrait. The "Mystics and Occultists" Series:
London 1922. [8 g 8]
Harrison (William H.), Spirit Peoj^le : a scientifically accurate de-
scriiition of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and
simultaneously witnessed by the author and other observers in
London. 8vo, pp. 46. The Spiritualist Library (no. 1) :
London 1875. [RS 15 (2)]
Hartmann (Franz), The Life and Doctrines of Jacob Boehme, the
God-taught Philosopher. An Introduction to the Study of his
Works. 8vo, pp. xii. 338. London 1891. [8 c 10]
Hartmann (Johann Zacharias), Commentatio Ivridica de conivgibvs
incantatis eorvmque separatione. Von bezauberten Ehe-Leuten,
durch Nesselkniipfen, Schloss zuschnappen &c. imd derselben
Scheidung. 4to, pp. 40. 16. lenae 1741. [R 20 d 36]
Hartmann (William C), Who's Who in Occultism, New Thought,
Psychism and Spiritualism. (A Biography, Directory and
108] Lihranj Catalogue, 1927-1928 157
Bibliography Combined.) In Distinctly Separate Sections.
Issued under the auspices of the Occult Brotherhood. Second
edition of " Hartmann's Who's Who." 8vo, pp. xvm. 350.
Jamaica, N.Y. 1927. [R 21 h 9]
Haschek (E.), Ein Beitrag zur Wiinschelrutenfrage. 4to, PP^p^^
"^^g'^-j
[Part of Allgemeine osterreichische Chemiker- und Techniker-
Zeitung (Wien, 1 March 1928), xlvi.]
Haught (B. F.), The Interrelation of Some Higher Learning Processes.
8vo, pp. vi. 71. The Psychological Monographs ( XXX. 6 : 139):
Princeton and Lancaster \pn cover : Princeton] 1921.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 30 (139)]
Hayden (Edwin Andrew), The Social Will. 8vo, pp. vh. 93. The
Psychological Review : Psychological Monographs (x. 2 : 41):
Lancaster and Baltimore, April 1909. [25 a 10 (41)]
[With a bibliography.]
Hayes (Joseph Wanton), A Horizontal-Vertical Illusion of Brightness
in Foveal Vision Apparent in Astronomical Observations of the
Relative Luminosity of Twin Stars. 8vo, pp. iii. 126, 4 diagrams.
The Psychological Monographs (xx. 1 : 85, Studies from the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Prmceton and
Lancaster, August 1915. [25 a 20 (85)]
Hayes (Mary Holmes Stevens), A Study of Cutaneous After-Sensa-
tions. 8vo, pp. V. 89, 3 folding tables. The Psychological
Monographs (xiv. 3 : 60, Studies from the Psychological Labora-
tory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton and Lancaster,
September 1912. [25 a 14 (60)]
[With a bibliography.]
Haynes (E. S. P.), The Belief in Personal Immortality. 8vo, pp. viii.
156. The Inquirer's Library (no. 2) : London 1913. [26 f 33]
[Journ. xvi. 126.]
Heidenhain (Adolf), J. J. Rousseau, Personlichkeit, Philosophie und
Psychose. 8vo, pp. vi. 84. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (no. 117) : Miinchen 1924. [R 20 f 18 (117)]
[With a bibliography.]
Heilbronner (K.), Uber Gewohnung auf normalen imd pathologischen
Gebiete. 8vo, pp. v. 51. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelen-
lebens (xiii. 87) : Wiesbaden 1912. [R 20 f 13 (87)
Heims (Wilhelm), Die alte u. neue Mystik u. Magie, Okkultismus und
Parapsychologie. Katalog 133. 8vo, pp. 24. Leipzig [1928].
[R 27 f]
Heinroth (Johann Christian August), Geschichte und Kritik des
Mysticismus aller bekaimten Volker mid Zeiten. 8vo, pp. vni.
532. Leipzig 1830. [22 a 6]
158 Society for Psycfiical Research
Held (Hans Ludwig), Preface to Ackermann (Theodor) Antiquariat,
Celieiine Wissenschaften, vol. iii. [RBi 3 (6)]
Hellwig (Albert), Gesm^dbeten und ander mystische Hail verfahren.
8vo, pp. 49. Beitrage zur Geschichte der neueren Mystik und
Magie (Heft 3) : Leipzig 1914. [17 g 3]
— Weltkrieg und Aberglaube. Erlebtes und Erlauchtes. 8vo,
ipj>. vii. 159. Leijjzig 1916. [17 e 2]
Helrad (Lona), Botschaften aus dem Geisterreich. Uebersinnliche
Erlebnisse. Gesammelt von Lona Helrad. Herausgegeben
Und eingeleitet von Robert Nagel. 8vo. pp. 48. Tliird-fifth
edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 161/162)]: Pfullingen 1921.
[R 20 e 14 (161-162)]
Hennle ( ) and Zottmann ( ), Preface to Rutengangerversuche.
[RT 3 (3)]
Hentig (Hans von), tiber den Casarenwahnsinn. Die Krankheit des
Kaisers Tiberius. 8vo, pp. 52. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (no. 119) : Miinchen 1924. [R 20 f 18 (119)]
Herrick (C. Judson), Fatalism or Freedom. A Biologist's Answer.
8vo, pp. 106. Psyche Miniatures (General Series, no. 10)
:
London 1927. [26 h 17]
[Journ. xxiv. 163.]
[Hervey de Saint-Denis (Marquis)]. Les Reves et les Moyens de les
Diriger. Observations Pratiques. 8vo, jjp. 496, coloured plate
and wrapper. Paris 1867. [3 c 11]
Heyer (G. R.), Das korperlich-seelische Zusammenwirken in den
Lebensvorgangen an Hand klinischer und experimentellen
Tatsachen dargestellt. 8vo, ])p. viii. 65. Grenzfragen des
Nerven- und Seelenlebens (no. 121) : Miinchen 1925.
[R 20f 19 (121)]
Heyn (Leila Holterhoff) and Maublanc (R.), Une education paroptique.
La decou\erte du mondo visuel ])ar un aveugle. 8vo, pp. 225.
Les Documents Bleus (no. 26) : Paris 1926. [6 g 24]
[Journ. xxiv. 234.]
Highsmith (J. A,), Relation of the Rate of Response to Intelligence.
8vo, pp. viii. 33. Psychological Monographs (xxxiv. 3 : 196,
Studies in Psychology from the Jesup Psychological Laboratory) :
Princeton and Albany 1924. [25 a 34 (156)]
[With a bibliography.]
Hildebrand (Wolffgang), Wolfgangi Hildebrands augirte |
weitver-
besserte \md viel vermehrte Magia Naturalis. Das ist Kunst
vnd Wunderbuch. Darinne begriffen wunderbahre Secreta,
Geheimnusse |
und Kunststucke |
wie man nemlich mit dem
gantzen Menschlichen Corper |
zahmen und wilden Thieren |
Vogeln : Fischen |
Unzieffern und Insecten |
allerley Gewachsen |
Pflantzungen |
und sonsten fast unerhorte wimderbarliche Sachen
verrichten |
Audi etliche Wunderschrifften kunstlich bereiten
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 159
zu Schimpff |
Kurtzweil |
loblicher und lustiger Ubung |
und zu
Nutz gebrauchen |
und damit die Zeit vertreiben kan : Beneben
Erzehlung vieler wunderlichen Dingen |
so bin und wieder in
der Welt gefunden warden. Allen Kunstbegierigen |
und Lieb-
habern solcher geheimbten Kunsten |
in sonderlichen Gefallen :
aus vieler alter und newer Ertzte (
beruhmter und bewehrter
Naturkundiger Bueher und eigner Erfabrung colligirt, zusammen
getragen |
und in vier imterschiedliche Bucher abgetheilet |
jetzo mit vielen geheimbten Kunst-stucklein welche bey den
vorigen Exemplarien nicht zufinden |
und gantz new in Druck
gegeben. 4to, ff. [vii]. 49. [iv] + [ij. 53. [iij. + [i]. 36. [iii]. + [i]. 27.
[iv], 4 vols. Erffurdt 1664. [R 12 bb 2]
Hill (J. C), Dreams and Education. 8vo, pp. viii. 107. London
1926. [3 d 10]
Hillam (S. A.), Sheykh Hassan : the Spiritualist. A View of the
Supernatural. "Svo, pp. xii. 223. London 1888. [23 e 20]
Hinrichsen (Otto), Sexualitat und Dichtimg. Ein weiterer Beitrag
zur Psychologie des Dichters. 8vO; pp. v. 81. Grenzfragen des
Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xiii. 85) : Wiesbaden 1912.
[With a bibliography.] [R 20 f 13 (85)]
Zur Psychologie und Psychojiathologie des Dichters. Svo,
pp. iii. 95. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xii. 80) :
Wiesbaden 1911. [R 20 f 12 (80)]
[With a bibliography.]
Hipparchus, the Pythagorean, On Tranquillity, in lamblichus, Life of
Pythagoras. [8 e 10]
Hippodamus, On Felicity, in lamblichus, Life of Pythagoras. [8 e 10]
Hirn (G. A.), La Vie Future et la Science Moderne. Lettre k M. le
Pasteur * * *. Svo, pp. 72. Colmar [label pasted over : Paris]
1882. [R 27 g]
[Offprint from the Revue Alsace, xxxii.]
Hirt ( ), Grashey ( ), Schrenck-Notzing (A. von) and Preyer (W.),
Der Prozess Czynski. Thatbestand desselben und Gutacliten
liber Willensbeschrankung durch hypnotischen-suggestiven Ein-
fluss abgegeben vor dem oberbayerischen Schwurgericht zu
Miinchen. Svo, pp. iii. 102. Stuttgart 1895. [RHy 14 (5)]
Hirte (Johann Philipp), Translation, with Foreword, to Baiersche
Prophet, Der. [R 20 d 40]
[Histoire de Magdelaine Bavent]. 4to, pp. 80+viij. 15. 14. 32. 28.
[iv]. 71. S. [iv]. 36. 22. 4. 7. 4. [iv]. 56. 24. 38, 2 parts. [Rouen
1878-1879.] [R 21 ill]
[The above title is taken from the label on the wrappers of
each part. The book consists of a number of type-facsimiles
(each with separate jDagination) of contemporary tracts dealing
with the Louviers case of possession. The first part contains
one tract only : Histoire de Magdelai/ne Bavent (Paris 1652), and
160 Society for Psychical Research [part
has no titlepage beyond the facsimile of the titlepage of the
above-mentioned tract. The second tract has a collective title-
page : Eecueil de Pieces sur les Possessions des Religieuses de
Louviers (Rouen 1879).]
Histoires Veritables arrivees en la personne de Deux Bourgeois de la
Ville de Charleville qui ont este estranglez et Emportez par le
Diable dans la dite ville. 8vo, pp. 13. Charleville 1637
[colophon : Lyon 1874]. [R 20 d 49]
[A tyjje-facsimile.]
Hitchcock (Clara M.), The Psychology of Expectation. 8vo, pp. iv.
78. The Psychological Review : Monograph Supplements (v.
3 : 20) : Lancaster and New York, January 1903. [25 a 5 (20)]
[9 e 19]
Hobhouse (L. T.), Sociology, m Mind, The.
Hochst merkwiirdige Prophezeihungen iiber die kommenden Ereignisse
der Jahre 1859 und 1860. Aus den hinterlassenen Papieren
eines langst Verstorbenen zusammengestelt. 8vo, pp. 14, 1 ill.
Fourth edition. Dresden n.d. [R 20 d 46]
Hodgson (Geraldine E.), The Sanity of Mysticism : a Study of
Richard Rolle. 8vo, pp. ix. 27. London 1926. [22 b 11]
Hoffding (Harald), The Philosophy of Religion. Translated from the
German edition by B. E. Meyer. 8vo, pp. viii. 400. Second
edition. London 1914. [26 g 6]
Hoffmann (Hermann), Uber Temperaments-Vererbung. 8vo, pp.
iv. 68, 1 1 diagrams. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens
(no. 115): Miinchen 1923. [R 20 f 18 ( 1 15)]
Hoffmann (Richard Adolf), Kant und Swedenborg. 8vo, pp. iv. 29.
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (x. 69) : Wiesbaden
1909. [R 20 f 10 (69)]
Holmes (T. V.), On the Evidence for the Efficiency of the Diviner and
his Rod in the Search for Water. 8vo, pp. 233-259, diagram.
London 1897. [RDo 2 (2)]
[Offprint irom. Journal of the Anthropological Institute (London,
November 1897). With an mscription by the author.]
Hopp (Max), tiber Hellsehen. Eine kritisch-experimentelle Unter-
suchung. Inaugural-Dissertation. . . . 8vo, pp. 127, diagrams
and 2 ill. Berlin 1916. [10 f 23]
[With a bibliography.]
Hore (William), Prefatory Address to Pierce (S. E.), The Unseen
World. [R 12 i 28]
Hort (G. M.), Dr John Dee : Elizabethan Mystic and Astrologer.
8vo, pp. 72. The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London
1922. [8g7]
Howell (Basil P.), Editor o/ Blavatsky (H. P.), Olcott (H. S.), Besant (A.)
and Jinarajadasa (C), The Theosopliical Society. [RTh 5 (8)]
108] Lihranj Catalogue, 1927-1928 161
Hubback (C. J. M.), Authorized translation of Freud (S.), Beyond the
Measure Principle. [10 h 4]
Hiigel (Baron Friedrich von), Essays & Addresses on the Philosophy
of Religion. 8vo, pp. xix. 308 +ix. 287, 2 vols. [Vol. 1:
Second impression.] London and Toronto 1924-1926. [26 h 1-2]
The Mystical Element of Religion as studied in Saint
Catherine of Genoa and her Friends. 8vo, pp. xl. 466, jDortrait
-t-vi. 422, portrait, 2 vols. Second impression of second edition.
London 1927. [22 b 12-13]
Hull (Clark L.), The Iiifluence of Tobacco Smoking on Mental and
Motor Efficiency. An Experimental Investigation. 8vo, pp. iv.
161, 22 diagrams and ill. and 1 folding table. Psychological
Monographs (xxxiii. 3 : 150): Princeton 1924. [25 a 33 (150)]
— Quantitative Aspects of the Evolution of Concepts. An
Experimental Study. 8vo, pp. vi. 86, 19 diagrams. The
Psychological Monographs (xxviii. 1 : 123) : Princeton and
Lancaster 1920. [25 a 28 (123)]
[With a bibliography.]
Hunter (Walter S.) and Willoughby (R. R.), Editors of Psychological
Abstracts.
Hurlbut (Howard R.), Oil Exhaustion a Bug-a-Boo. The United
States Overlies Sufficient Oil To Supply The World For 500
Years. 16mo, pp. 27. [San Francisco 1928.] [RDo2(13)]
[A plea for the employment of dowsing in oil-prospecting.]
Huxley (Julian S.), Biology, m Mind, The. [9 c 19]
Hylan (John Perham), The Fluctuation of Attention. 8vo, pp. 78,
1 1 diagrams. The Psychological Review : MonograjDh Supple-
ments (ii. 2 : 6) : Lancaster, New York and London, Mai'ch
1898. [25 a 2 (6)]
Hyslop (Theo B.), The Borderland : some of the Problems of Insanity.
8vo, pp. vii. 310. London 1924. [10 h 31]
The Great Abnormals. 8vo, pp. xxvii. 289. London 1925.
[10 e 1]
[Witch mania and superstition, epidemic manias, alchemists,
visionaries.]
lamblichus, of Chalcis, Life of Pythagoras, or Pythagoric Life.
Accompanied by fragments of the ethical writings of certain
Pythagoreans in the Doric dialect ; and a Collection of Pytha-
goric Sentences from Stobaeus and others, which are omitted by
Gale in his Opuscula Mythologica, and have not been noticed
by any editor. Translated from the Greek. By Thomas
Taylor. 8vo, pp. xiii. 252. London 1926. [8 e 10]
[One of an edition of 500 copies.]
•, Pythagoric Sentences from the Protreptics, iti lamblichus.
Life of Pythagoras. [8 e 10]
162 Society for Psychical Research [part
Illingworth (J. R.), The Gospel Miracles. An Essay with two appen-
dices. 8vo, \)Y>. xvii. 213. [Second impression.] London 1916.
[17 e 1]
Ince (R. B.), Franz Anton Mesmer, his Life and Teaching. 8vo,
13p. 59. The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1920.
[8g6]
Joan of Arc. 8vo, pjD. 77. The " Mystics and Occultists
"
Series: London 1921. [8 g 10]
Martin Luther, Apostle of the Reformation. 8vo, jjp. 96,
portrait. The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1922.
[8g 1]
Inge (William Ralph), Christian Mysticism. 8vo, pp. xv. 379. The
Bampton Lectures, 1899 : London 1899. [22 a 15]
•
Faith [on cover : and its Psychology]. 8vo, pp. x. 248.
Fourth impression. Studies in Theology Series: London 1919.
[With a bibhography.] [9 fl 15]
Jacob (P. L.), Curiosites des Sciences Occultes. Alchimie, Medecine
chimiqvie et astrologique. Talismans, Amulettes, Baguette
divinatoire, Astrologie, Chiromancie, Physiognomie, Predictions,
Presages, Oracles, Oneirocritie, Magie, Sorcellerie, Secrets
d'amour, etc. 8vo, jDp. 396, diagrams. Paris 1862. [21 b 13]
Jacobi (W.), Die Ekstase der Alt-Testamentlichen Propheten. 8vo,
pp. iv. 62. Grenzfragen des Nerven- imd Seelenlebens (no. 108)
:
Miinchen und Wiesbaden 1920. [R 20 f 17 (108)]
Die Stigmatisierten. Beitrage zur Psychologie der Mystik.
8vo, pi3. iv. 57. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens
(no. 114) : Miinchen 1923. [R 20 f 18 (114)]
Jacobj (C), Okkultismus und Medizinische Wissenschaft. Vortrag.
8vo, pp. 52. Stuttgart 1912. [RPR 11 (8)]
Jacopone da Todi, Laude, in Underbill (E.), Jacopone da Todi. [8 d 12]
Janet (Pierre), Psychological Healing : a Historical and Clinical
Study. Translated by Eden and Cedar Paul. 8vo, pp. 1265,
2 vols. London 1925. [10 e 3-4]
[With a bibliography.]
Jellifife (Smith Ely) and White (W. A.), Translation and edition of
Dubois (P.), The Psychic Treatment of Nervous Disorders.
[10 d 8]
Jenkins (E. Vaughan), Are the Claims and Pretensions of the Divining
Rod valid and true ?, in Young (J. F). and Robertson (R.), The
Divining Rod.
Jentsch (Ernst), Musik und Nerven. II. Das musikalische Gefiihl.
8\o, ]jp. vi. 95. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens
(xii. 78): Wiesbaden 1911. [R20fl2(78)]
[Continued from v. 29.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 163
Jentsch (Ernst)
—
Das Pathologische bei Otto Ludwig. Mit der Totenmaske
Otto Ludwigs. 8vo, pp. vi. 72, portrait. Grenzfragen des
Nerven- tmd Seelenlebens (xiv. 90) : Wiesbaden 1913.
[R 20 f 16 (90)]
Jinarajadasa (C), Blavatsky (H. P.), Olcott (H. S.) and Besant (A.),
The Theosophical Society : the first Fifty Years. Edited by
B. P. Howell. 8vo, pp. xiii. 79. London 1925. RTh 5 (8)]
Joad (C. E. M.), The Mind and its Workings. 16mo, pp. 80. Second
impression. Benn's Sixpenny Library (no. 152) : London 1927.
[RP 9 (5)]
[Journ. xxiv. 163. With a bibliography.]
John Bull—Mystic. A Record of the mysterious and the mystic
experiences that come to the Man in the Street—John Bull.
(Recent and down to Summer, 1926.) Selected and elucidated
here and there by Judex. 12mo,pp. 195. London 1926. [17e20]
[A reprint of press cuttings.]
Johnson (George Lindsay), The Great Problem and the Evidence for
its Solution. With an Appreciation by Sir A. C. Doyle. 8vo,
pp. 380, 2 diagrams and 8 ill. London [1928]. [24 d 36]
[Journ. xxiv. 293. On Spiritualism.]
Jones (E. Griffith-), Faith and Immortality : a Study of the Christian
Doctrine of the Life to Come. 8vo, pjj. xviii. 338. London
1917. [26g33]
Jones (Ernest), Der Alptraum in seiner Beziehung zu gewissen
Formen des mittelalterlichen Aberglaubens. Translated by E. H.
Sachs. 8vo, pp. iii. 149. Schriften zur angewandten Seelen-
kunde (Heft 14) : Leipzig und Wien 1912. [10 f 6]
[A discussion of witchcraft and demonology.]
Essays in Applied Psycho-analysis. 8vo, pp. vii. 454, ill.
The International Psycho -analytical Library (no. 5) : London-
Vienna 1923. [10 h 5]
Jones (Joseph W. L.), Sociality and sympathy. An Introduction to
the Ethics of Sjonpathy. 8vo, pp. iii. 91. The Psychological
Review : Monograph Supplements (v. 1 : 18) : Lancaster and
New York, April 1903. [25 a 5 (18)]
Jones (Rufus M.), Studies in Mystical Religion. 8vo, pp. xxxviii.
512. The Quaker Hi.story Series (vol. I) : London 1923.
[22 b 5]
Jordan (G. J), The Story of Psychology. A Handbook for Everyman.
8vo, pp. 147. Stories of Science : London 1926. [9 e 17]
[With a bibliography.]
Jordan (K. F.), Die wandernde Seele. 8vo, pp. 48. Die Okkulte
Welt (no. 12) : Pfullingen 1921. [R 20 el (12)]
164 Society for Psychical Research [part
Judd (Charles Hubbard), Editor of Psychological Review, The :
Monograph Supplements. [25 a]
Editor of Yale Psychological Studies. [25 a]
Psychology: General Introduction. 8vo, pp. xix. 358, 61 ill.
and diagrams. Second completely revised edition. Boston 1917.
[9 d 11]
Judex, John Bull—Mystic. A Record of the mysterious and the
mystic experiences that come to the Man in the Street—John
Bull. (Recent and down to Summer, 1926.) Selected and
elucidated here and there by Judex. 12mo, 195. London
1926. [17e20]
[A reprint of press cuttings.]
Judge (William Q.), The Ocean of Theosophy. 8vo, jDp. xii. 153,
portrait. Eleventh edition. Los Angeles 1922. [7 f 8]
Jung-Stilling (J. H.), 55 Thesen zur Geisterkunde. Neu heraus-
gegeben rmd mit Einleitung und Anmerkungen versehen von
Walter v. Biihl. 8vo, pp. 41. Third-fifth edition. [Die
Okkulte Welt (no. 143)] : Pfullingen [1926 ?]. [R 20 e 12 (143)]
Theorie du discernement des Esprits. Publiee au commence-
ment de ce siecle. Ouvrage philosophiciue et religieux traduit
de I'allemand [by Vuille] sur I'edition de 1827 pour combattre
les erreurs qui s'introcluisent depuis quelque temps chez les fran-
^ais au sujet des experiences faites par le magnetisme animal.
8vo, pp. 303. Neuchatel 1862 [on wrapper : 1861]. [17 b 5]
K., Preface to Gallerie der neuen Propheten. [R 12 aa 4]
Kazi Dawa-Samdup (Lama), Translation of The Tibetan Book of the
Dead, in Wentz (W. Y. Evans-), The Tibetan Book of the Dead.
[22 e 14]
Keene (Sally), Evidence of Things not Seen. Foreword by W. F.
Prince. 8vo, pp. 68, 2 portraits. Boston Society for Psychic
Research (Bulletin VIII) : Boston, March 1928.
[^Journ. xxiv. 272. An account of psychical experiences.]
Keith (Sir Arthur), A Note on Spii'it Gloves, in " Glove " Fight, A,
about Psychics. [RF 37]
Keller (A. G.), Foreword to Maddox ( J. L.), The Medicine Man. [22 e 1 1]
Kellogg (Chester Elijah), Alternation and Interference of Feelings.
8vo, pp. ii. 95, 2 diagrams. The Psychological Monographs
(xviii. 3 : 79 Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of
Harvard University) : Princeton and Lancaster, February 1915.
[25 a 18 (79)]
Kemmerich (Max), Gespenster imd SjDuk. 8vo, pp. 511. Ludwigs-
hafen am Bodensee 1921. [5 a 19]
Kenneth (J. H.), An Experimental Study of Affects and Associations
due to Certain Odors. 8vo, pp. iii. 64. Psychological Mono-
graphs (xxxvii. 2 : 171) : Princeton and Albany 1927.
[With a bibhography.] [25 a 37 ( 1 7 1 )]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 165
[Kerner (Justinus)], Ueber das Besessenseyn oder das Daseyn und
den Einfluss des bosen Geisterreichs in der alten Zeit. Mit
Beriieksichtigimg damonischen Besitzungen der neuen Zeit.
8vo, pp. 116. Heilbronn 1833. [R 20 d 43]
[Anotlier impression.] 8vo, pp. 116. Heilbronn
1847. [R 12 a 44]
Kiesewetter (Karl), Geschichte des neueren Occultismus. Geheim-
wissenscliaftliche iSysteme von Agrippa von Nettesheim bis zu
Karl du Prel. Zweite durchgesehene und erweiterte Auflage
besorgt von Robert Blum. 8vo, jjp. xii. 910, diagrams and ill.
Leipzig 1909. [21 c 13]
Kind (Alfred), Translation of Belcier (J. de), Memoiren einer Beses-
senen. [21 c 16]
King (Irving), The Differentiation of the Religious Consciousness.
8vo, pp. iv. 72. The Psychological Review : Monograph Supple-
ments (vi. 4 : 27) : Lancaster and New York, January 1905.
[25 a 6 (27)]
King (Maria M.), The Principles of Nature, as discovered in the
development and structure of the Universe. The Solar System,
laws and method of its development. Being a concise exposition
of the laws of imiversal development, or origin of systems, suns,
planets ; the laws governing their motions, forces &c. Also a
history of the development of Earth from the period of its first
formation until the present. Also an exposition of the spiritual
universe. Given inspirationally by Mrs Maria M. King.
Vol I. [With Scribe's Preface by A. J. King.] 8vo, pp. 327.
Second edition. Boston 1871. [23 b 10]
Kingsbury (Forrest Alva), A Group Intelligence Scale for Primary
Grades. 8vo, pp. iii. 60, numerous diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xxxiii. 6 : 153) : Princeton 1924. [25 a 33 (153)]
Kingsland (William), Was she a Charlatan ? A Critical Analysis of
the 1885 Report of the Society for Psychical Research on the
Phenomena comiected with Mme H. P. Blavatsky. 8vo, pp.
60. The Blavatsky Association : London [1927]. [RTh 5(7)]
Kirchmann (J. H. von), Ueber die Unsterblichkeit. Ein philo-
sophischer Versuch. 8vo, pp. vi. 222. Berlin 1865. [26 i 1]
Kitson (Harry Dexter), The Scientific Study of the College Student.
8vo, P2J. V. 81. 3 folding tables. The Psychological Monographs
(xxiii. [1] : 89 [sic for 98], Studies from the Psychological Labor-
atory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton and Lancaster
1927. [25 a 23 (98)]
Kjerstad (Conrad L.), The Form of the Learning Curves for Memory.
8vo, pp. V. 89, 5 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxvi.
5 : 116, Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of the
University of Chicago) : Princeton and Lancaster 1919.
[25 a 26 (116)]
166 Society for Psychical Research [part
Klieneberger (Otto), Uber Pubertat vmd Psychopathie. 8vo, pp. iii.
5'J. Cii'enzfragen des Nerven- imd Seelenlebens (xv. 95) :
Wiesbaden 1914. [R 20 f 15 (95)]
[With a bibliography.]
Klinckowstroem (Graf Carl von), Translation of Vire (A.), Neue
Experimente mit der Wiinschelrute. [RT 3 (6)]
Bibliographie der Wiinschelrute seit 1910 und Nachtrage
(1610-1909). 8vo, pp. 3-43. [6 131 (3)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1912), Heft 3.]
Bibliographie der Wiinschelrute, zweite Fortsetzung (bis
Ende 1914) und Nachtrage. 8vo, pp. 125-167, ill. [6 i 31 (7)]
[Part of Schriften des Verhands zur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1916), Heft 7.]
Ergebnisse der Tatigkeit des Landrats von Uslar in Deutsch-
land. 8vo, pp. 15-88. [6 i 31 (4)]
[Part of Schriften des Verhands zur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1913)], Heft 4.] [6 i 31 (4)]
Glossen zum Metapsychischen Kongress in Paris. 4to, pp.
1018-1020. [RT3(13)]
[Part of Die Umschaii (Frankfurt a. M., 3 December 1927),
xxxi.]
Grundwasser und Wiinsclielrute. 4to, pp. 91-94, 2 diagrams.
[RT3(5)]
[Part of the Zeitschrift des Internationalen Vereities der Bohr-
ingenieure und Bohrtechniker (Wien 1912), no. 8.]
Herr v. Zwergern und die Wiinschelrute. 4to, pp. 4-6.
[Addendum to the author's Die Versuche mit der Wunschelrute
im Kalibergwerk.]
Johann Wilhelm Ritter und die Wiinschelrute. Eine his-
torische Studie. 4to, pp. 3. [RF 28]
[Offprint from Die Wiinschelrute (Leipzig 1913), nos. 32-34.]
Die Krise im Okkultismus. FoHo leaf. [RF 2]
[Part of Kolnische Zeitung : Literatur- und Unterlmltungs-
hlatt (20 September 1927), no. 620.]
Nachruf Robert Weyrauch. 8vo, pp. 3-4, portrait.
[6 i 32 (10)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrarje (Stuttgart 1927), Heft 10.]
Der okkultistische Komplex. Parallelen aus alterei' und
neuerer Zeit. 8vo, pp. 303-315. [RPR 11 (10)]
[Offprmt from Psychologic und Mcdizin (Stuttgart 1927), ii.J
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 167
Klinckowstroem (Graf Carl von)
—
Parallelen vom alten unci vom neueren Okkiiltismus. 8vo,
pp. 54-64. [RAH 4 (12)]
[Offprint from Psychologie und Medizin (Stuttgart 1928), iii.]
Der Quellenfinder Josef Beraz. Ein Kaj^itel aus der Ge-
schichte der Wiinschelrute. 4to, pp. 15. [RF 31]
[Offprint from Die Wiinschelrute (Leipzig 1914).]
Schlusswort [to A. von Schrenck-Notzing, Die " Glossen des
Grafen Klinckowstroem zu dem Metapsychisclien Kongress in
Paris"]. 4to,p. 199. [RT3(16)]
[Part of Die Umschau (Frankfurt a. M., 3 March 1928), xxxii.]
-Virgula Divina. Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte der Wiinschel-
rute. Svo, pp. 583-588. [RDo 2 (9)]
[Offprint from Dokuniente des Fortschritts (Berhn, September
1910).]
Wie ist die Krise im Okkultismus zu iiberwinden ? Foho
leaf. [RF 1]
[Part of tlie Kdlnische Zeitung : Literatur- und Unterhaltungs-
blatt (24 November 1927), no. 748.]
Zeitschrift fiir Wiinschehutenforschung. Svo, pj). 64-65.
[6i32{ll)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Kldrung der Wilnschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1928), Heft 11.]
Zur Wiinschelrutenfrage. 4to, pp. 2. [RT 3 (2)]
[Offprint frorn the Zeitschrift des Vereines der Gas- und Wasser-
fachmanner in Osterreich-Ungarn (1911), no. 9.]
Zur Wiinschelrutenfrage. 4to leaf. [RF 32]
[Offprint from Die Wiinschelrute (Leipzig 1913), no. 35.]
Knauer ( ), Die Vision im Lichte der Kulturgeschichte und der
Damon des Sokrates. Eine kulturgeschichthch-psychiatrische
Studie. Svo, pp. vii. 222. Leipzig n.d. [22 d 1]
Kniepf (Albert), Die Weissagungen des altfranzosischen Sehers
]Mieliael Nostradamus und der Weltkrieg. 3. bedeutend
erweiterte Auflage mit Anhang : Shakespeare-Trug, Bacon's
Lug. Svo, pp. 64. Hamburg, Marz 1915. [RAH 4 (4)]
Koch (Helen Lois), The Influence of Mechanical Guidance Upon
Maze Learning. Svo, pp. vi. 113, 6 diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xxxii. 5 : 147, Studies from the Psychological
Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Prmceton 1923.
[25 a 32 (147)]
— and Simmons (R.), A Study of the Test-Performances of
American, Mexican, and Negro Children. Svo, pp. iii. 116,
11 diagrams. Psychological Monograplis (xxxv. 5: 116):
Princeton and Albany [1926]. [25 a 35 (166)]
[Witll a bibliography.]
168 Society for Psychical Research [part
Konow (Sten), Edition and translation of Samavidhanabrahmana.
[RAH" 4 (2)]
Kotik (Naum), Die Emanation der psycliophysisclien Energie.
Eine experimentelle Untersuchung iiber die unmittelbare Gedan-
keniibertragiing im Zusammenhang mit der Frage iiber die
Radioaktivitat des Gehirns. 8vo, pp. vii. 130. Grenzfragen
des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (ix. 61) : Wiesbaden 1908.
[R 20 £9(61)]
Kreyher (Johannes), Die mystischen Erseheimmgen des Seelenlebens
imd die biblischen Wunder. Ein apologetischer Versiich. Svo,
pp. viii. 328 +iv. 214, 2 vols. Stuttgart 1880. [22 a 11]
Krimitell. See Tellalian (K. M.).
Krug ( ), Ueber die Geisterwelt und ein grosses Geheimniss. 8vo,
pp. 60. Leipzig 1830. [R 20 d 53]
Kukuk (P.) and Thiel (H.), Bericht iiber Versuche mit der Wiinschel-
rute im siidlichen Riihrbezirk. 8vo, pp. 6-13, 4 diagrams.
[6 i 32 (10)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands ziir Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1928), Heft 11).]
Kurella (Hans), Cesare Lombroso als Mensch imd Forscher. Svo,
pp. 90, portrait. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens
(xi. 73): Wiesbaden 1910. [R 20 f 11 (73)]
[With bibliographies.]
Die Intellektuellen imd die Gesellschaft. Ein Beitrag zur
Naturgeschichte begabter Familien. Svo, pp. vii. 124. Grenz-
fragen des Nerven- xmd Seelenlebens (xiii. 88) : Wiesbaden 1913.
[R 20 f 13 (88)]
Lacquer (B.), Eugenik und Dysgenik. Ein Versuch. Svo, pp. v. 62,
8 portraits and diagrams ( 1 in colours). Grenzfragen des Nerven-
vmd Seelenlebens (xv. 97) : Wiesbaden 1914. [R 20 f 15 (97)]
Lafora (Gonzalo R.), Collaborator in Franz (S. I.), On the Functions
of the Cerebrum. [25 a 13 (56)]
Lahore (Bishop of), Foreword to Singh (Sadhu Sundar), Visions of the
Spiritual World. [26 h 12]
Lalande (Andre), Vocabulaire technique et critique de la Philosophie.
Revu par MM. les Membres et Correspondants de la Society
Fran9aise de Philosophie et publie, avec leurs corrections et
observations. Svo, pp. viii. 1065, 2 vols. Paris 1926.
[26 h 10-11]
Lamm (Martin), Swedenborg. Eine Studie iiber seine Entwicklimg
zum Mystiker und Geisterseher. '
Translated from the Swedish
by Use Meyer-Liine. Svo, pp. 379. Leipzig 1922. [8 f 13]
Langfeld (Herbert Sidney), On the Psychophysiology of a Prolonged
Fast. Svo, pp. 50. xii, 13 diagrams. The Psychological Mono-
108] lAhranj Catalogue, 1927-1928 169
graphs (xvi. 5 : 71, Studies from the Psychological Laboratory
of Harvard University) : Princeton and Lancaster, July 1914.
[25 a 16 (71)]
Langin (Georg), Religion und Hexenprozess. Zwc Wiirdigung des
400 jahrigen Jubilau.ms der Hexenbulle und des Hexenhammers
sowie der neuesten katholischen Geschichtschreibung auf diesem
Gebiete. 8vo, pp. xviii. 385. Leipzig 1888. [21 e 8]
Langlet (J. B.), fitude critique siu" quelques points de la physiologie
du sommeil. 8vo, pp. ix. 80, 39 diagrams. Paris 1872.
[3 c 10(4)]
Langsdorff (Georg von), Die Schutzgeister und eine vergleichende
Uebersicht der Erscheinungen des Lebensmagnetismus durch
ein Medium erhalten imd herausgegeben von G. v. Langsdorff.
8vo, pp. xL 278. Leipzig 1897. [16 e 20]
Lasswitz (Kurt), Editor of Fechner (G. T.), Zend-Avesta. [26 f 14-15]
Lauvergne (H.), Die letzten Stunden imd der Tod in alien Classen der
Gesellschaft aus den GesichtspT,mkten der Humanitat, der
Physiologie imd der Religion betrachtet. Frei nach dem
Franzosischen bearbeitet. 12mo, pp. xxvi. 383 -fiv. 388, 2 vols.
Leipzig 1843. [17 a 3-4]
Leadbeater (C. W.), Preface to Whyte (H.), H. P. Blavatsky. [8 c 6]
The Astral Plane : its Scenery, Inhabitants and Phenomena.
8vo, pp. 126. Thirty-third thousand. Theosojjhical Manuals
(no. 5) : London n.d. [7 f 13]
The Chakras : a Monograph. 4to, pp. ix. 78, 20 ill. (10 in
colours). Adyar 1927. [7 h 10]
Clairvoyance. 8vo, pp. 181. Fourth edition. London :
Reprinted 1918. [7 f 10]
The Devachanic Plane, or The Heaven World, its character-
istics and inhabitants. 8vo, pp. 102. Fourth edition, revised
and enlarged. Theosophical Manuals (no. 6) : London n.d.
[RTh 5 (2)]
Dreams : what they are and how they are caused. Fourth
edition. London: Reprinted 1921. [7fll]
The Hidden Side of Things. 8vo, pp. xii. 648. Third
edition. Adyar 1923. [7 f 15]
Telepathy and Mind-Cure. 8vo, pp. 24. London 1926.
[RPR 11 (18)]
and Besant (A.), Man : Wlience, How and Whither. A
record of clairvoyant investigation. 4to, pp. 9. vii. 524, 3 ill.
(1 in colours). Adyar and Benares 1913. [7 g 15]
Occult Chemistry : Clairvoyant Observations on the
Chemical Elements. Revised edition edited by A. P. Sinnett.
8vo, pp. V. 109, x. 52 ill. and diagrams. London 1919. [7 g 14]
170 Society for Psychical Research [part
Leben, Das, jenseit des Grabes. Von einem Geist geschildert. Aus
dem Englischen iibersetzt und mit Bemerkungen versehen von
Robert Friese. 8vo, i^p. xii. 281. Leipzig 1899. [23f 21]
[Automatically written by Binney.]
Le Boeuffle (Rene), Memoir in Sorel (C. L. F. H.), De Tlntelligence
cliez rAnimal. [3 a 35]
Lee (Ang Laufen), An Experimental Study of Retention and its
Relation to Intelligence. 8vo, pp. x. 45, 9 diagrams. Psycho-
logical Monographs (xxxiv. 4 : 157) : Princeton and Albany
1925. [25 a 34 (157)]
Leese (Kurt), Moderne Theosophie. Ein Beitrag zum Verstandnis
der geistigen Stromungen der Gegenwart. 8vo, pp. 229.
Second, entirely revised and greatly enlarged edition. Berlin
1921. [7hll]
Legue (Gabriel) and La Tourette (G. de), Editors of Belcier (J. de),
Soeur Jeanne des Anges. [21 c 3]
Le Loyer (Pierre), Discovrs des Spectres. Ov Visions et Apparitions
d'Esj^rits, comme anges, demons, et ames, se monstrans visibles
aux hommes, ou sont rapportex les Argvmens et Raisons de
cevx qui reuocquent en doute ce qui se dit sur ce subiect, &
autres qui en aiDi^rochent, comme les voix, & sons prodigieux,
Signes, Ecstases & songes admirables, & encores les Histoires des
Ajjparitions, & semblables j^rodiges aduenus en chasque siecle,
prinses des meilleurs autheurs ; & jDuis finalement les moyens
de discerner les bons & mauuais Esprits, ensemble les remedes &
exorcismes pour chasser & coniurer les Demons. Le tout en
hvict livres. 4to, pp. [xvi]. 979. [li]. Second edition, revised
and enlarged. Paris 1608. [R 22 h 6]
Lenormant (Francois), Les Sciences Occultes en Asie. La Divination
et la Science des Presages chez les Chaldeens. 4to, pp. 236.
Paris 1875. [22 d 6]
Leonard (John C), The Higher Spiritualism. The philosophy and
teachings of Spiritualism from the point of view of accepted
jjhilosophy and science. 8vo, jjp. 466. New York 1927.
[Journ. xxiv. 163. With a bibliography.] [24 d 22]
Leroy (Eug. Bernard), Les Visions du Demi-Sommeil (Hallucinations
Hyjjnogagiques). 8vo, pjD. xv. 132. 6 diagrams. Paris 1926.
[With a bibliography.] [3 a 9]
Lessing (Theodor), Der Larm. Eine Kampfschrift gegen die Gerau-
sche unseres Lebens. 8vo, pp. v. 94. Grenzfragen des Nerven-
und Seelenlebens (ix. 54): Wie.sbaden 1908. [R 20 f 9 (54)]
[With a bibliography of the author.]
Leuba (James Henry), The Psychology of ReHgious Mysticism. 8vo,
pp. xii. 336. International Library of Psychology, Philosophy
and Scientific Method : London 1925. [22 b 9]
108] Library Catalofjue, 1927-'1928 171
Leuba (James Henry) —
Die Psychologie der religioser Mystik. Corrected
translation by Erica Pfohl. 8vo, pp. x. 260. Grenzfragen des
Nerven- und Seelenlebens (no. 128/130) : Miinclien 1927.
R 20 f 19 (128-130)]
Levy (Eugene), Translation of Steiner (R.), I'l^dueation de TEnfant
au point de vue de la Science spirituelle. [RTh 5(1)]
Liljencrants (Johan), Memory Defects in the Organic Psychoses. An
Experimental Stndy. 8vo, pp. 77, 17 diagrams. Psyeliological
Monographs (xxxii. 1 : 143) : Princeton and Lancaster [on
cover: Princeton] 1922. [25 a 32 (143)]
[With a bibliograjDhy.]
Lindemann (F. A.), Physics, in Mind, The. [9 e 19]
Linn (William Alexander), The Story of the Mormons from the Date
of their Origin to the Year 1901. 8vo, pp. xxv. 637, 8 fac-
similes. [Second (?) impression.] New York 1923. [7 h 16]
Littre (fi.). Introduction to Salvestre (E.), Des Sciences Oecultes.
[21 b 12]
Lodge (Sir 0. J.), Foreword to M.A. Ball. Coll. Oxon., From Worlds
Unseen. [24 d 37]
Life and Matter. 8vo, pp. 477-491. [R 22 h II (26)]
[Offprint from The Journal of Philosophical Studies (London
1927), ii.]
Loewenfeld (L.), Bewiisstsein imd psychisches Geschehen. Die
Phanomene des Unterbewusstseins imd ihre Rolle in unserem
Geistesleben. 8vo, pp. vi. 94. Grenzfragen des Nerven- mid
Seelenlebens (xiv. 89) : Wiesbaden 1913. [R 20 f 14 (89)]
Homosexualitat und Strafgesetz. 8vo, jip. 35. Grenzfragen
des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (ix. 57) : Wiesbaden 1908.
[R 20f 9 (57)]
Die Suggestion in ihrer Bedeutung fiir den Weltkrieg. 8vo,
pp. 54. Grenzfragen des Nerven- mid Seelenlebens (xvi. 101) :
Wiesbaden 1917. [R 20 f 16 (101)]
tiber den National-Charakter der Franzosen und dessen
krankhafte Auswiichse (Die Psychopathia gallica) in ihren
Beziehungen zum Weltkrieg. 8vo, pp. vii. 42. Grenzfragen
des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xv. 100) : Wiesbaden 1914.
[R 20 f 15 (100)]
Lombroso (Cesare), Hypnotisclie mid spiritistische Forschungen.
Translated by Carl Grundig. 8vo, pp. xvi. 384, 66 ill., diagrams
and facsimiles (1 in colours). Stuttgart [1910 ? ]. [24 a 5]
Lomer (Georg), Die Magie der Liebe. Ein Ausfiug ins Geheimgebiet
der Liebe. 8vo, pp. 40. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 147 (148)]:
PfuUingen 1922. [R 20 e 13 (147-8)]
172 Society for Psychical Research [part
Lomer (Georg)
—
•
Die Mystik des Traumes und ihre wissenschaftlichen Grund-
lagen. 8vo, pp. 53. Second-third edition. Die Okkulte Welt
(no. 34) : Pfullingen 1921. [R 20 e 3 (34)]
Die Seele und ihre Todesfahrt naeh okkulter Erfahrung. 8vo,
pp. 40. Third-fifth edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 146)] :
Pfullingen 1921. [R 20 e 13 (146)]
Seele und Kosmos. Betrachtungen und Vergleiche. 8vo, pp.
53. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 17) : Pfullingen 1920. [R 20 e 2 (17)]
Loredan (Jean), Un Grand Proces de Sorcellerie au XVIIe Siecle.
L'Abbe Gaufridy et Madeleine de Demandolx (1600-1670).
D'apres des documents inedits. 8vo, pp. xiv. 436, 11 portraits,
ill. and facsimiles. Paris 1912. [21 e 17]
[Lacking pp. 225-240.]
Loughran (Miriam E.), Furley (P. H.) and Moore (T. H.), Clinical and
Psychoanalytic Stiidies. 8vo, pp. 347-420, 2 folding tables.
Psychological Monographs (xxvii. [4] : 121, Psychological Studies
from the Catholic University of America, 5) : Princeton and
Lancaster 1919. [25 a 27 (121)]
[With a bibliography.]
Lowell (Frances) and Woodrow (H.), Children's Association Frequency
Tables. 8vo, pp. iii. 110. The Psychological Monographs (xxii.
5 : 97) : Princeton and Lancaster 1916. [25 a 22 (97)]
Lowes (John Livingston), The Road to Xanadu. A Study in the
Ways of the Imagination. 8vo, pp. xviii. 639, 16 ill. London
[1927]. [17fl2]
[Jouryi. xxiv. 178. A psychological investigation into the
sources of Coleridge's The Ancient Mariner and Kubla Khan.]
Ludgate (Katharine Eva), The Effect of Manual Guidance upon
Maze Learning. 8vo, pp. v. 65, 8 diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xxxiii. 1 : 148, Studies from the Psychological
Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton 1923.
[25 a 33 (148)]
Luh (C. W.), The Conditions of Retention. 8vo, pp. v. 87. Psycho-
logical Monographs (xxxi. 3 : 142, Studies from the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton
1922. [25 a 31 (142)]
Luisada (Ezio), Estratto dall' Opera la Fisica e le jDroprieta dell'
Anima generale e individuale. 8vo, pp. 155-197. Firenze 1927.
[R 27 f]
Maack (Ferdinand), Das Wunder der Alchemie. 8vo, pp. 39. Third-
fourth edition. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 18) : Pfullingen [1920 ?].
[R 20 e 2 (18)]
M.A. Ball. Coll. Oxon., From Worlds Unseen. Foreword by Sir
Oliver Lodge. 8vo, pp. xv. 78. London [1928]. [24 d 37]
[Journ. xxiv. 293.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 173
McComas (H. C), Some Types of Attention. 8vo, pp. iii. 55, 3 folding
tables. The Psychological Monographs (xiii. 3 : 55) : Lancaster
and Baltimore, May 1911. [25 a 13 (55)]
McDonough (Agnes R.), The Development of Meaning. 8vo, pji.
i-il-olo, 3 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxvii. 6 [sic
for 5] : 122, Psychological Studies from the Catholic University
of America, 6) : Princeton and Lancaster 1919. [25 a 27 (122)]
McDowall (R. J. S.), Editor of Mind, The. [9 e 19]
Physiology, in Mind, The. [9 e 19]
McGrath (Marie Cecilia), A Study of the Moral Development of
Children. 8vo, pjj. iii. 190, 8 ill. and 7 folding tables. Psycho-
logical Monographs (xxxii. 2 : 144, Catholic University of
America Studies in Psychology, 7) : Princeton 1923.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 32 ( 144)]
Macintyre (Ronald G.), The Other side of Death. A Study m Chris-
tian Eschatology. 8vo, pp. xiv. 359. London 1920. [26 g 23]
Macmurray (John), Streeter (B. H.), Chilcott (C. M.) and Russell
(A. S.), Adventure : the Faith of Science and the Science of
Faith. 8vo, pp. ix. 247. London 1927. [26 h 20]
Maddox (John Lee), The Medicine Man : a Sociological Study of the
Character and Evolution of Shamanism. With a Foreword
by A. G. Keller. 8vo, pp. xiv. 330, 4 ill. New York 1923.
[22 e 11]
Maecker (Eugen Johannes), Der kiinstiche Wert mediumistiseher
Malereien, in Freimark (Hans), Mediumistische Kimst. [5 f 11]
Mager (Henri), The Discovery and Investigation of Subterranean
Waters, and Deposits of Oil and other Minerals, by a Scientific
Method based on the use of Detectors of the Ether Vibrations,
which accompany all Mineral Bodies, tmied to distmguish
between the Vibrations caused by different Bodies. Translated
with an Introduction, by W. H. Fordham. 8vo, pp. 13, diagram.
[London] 1906. [RDo 2 (14)]
Magica, Seu mirabilium historiarum de Spectris et Apparitionibvs
Spiritvvm : Item, De Magicis & Diabolicis incantationibus :
De Miraculis, Oraculis, Vaticinijs, Diuinationibus, Praedictioni-
bus, Visionibus, Reuelationibus, & alijs eiusmodi multis ac
varijs praestigijs, ludibrijs, & imposturis malorum Daemomnn
libri II. Ex probatis, et fide dignis historiarimi scriptoribus
diligenter collecti. [By Hemiing Grosius.] 8vo, pp. [xvi]. 478.
[xxviii]. Islebiae 1597. [R 12 bb 6]
Magnin (fimile), Devant le mystere de la nevrose. De la guerison
de cas reputes incurables. 8vo, pp. 75. Paris 1920. [RP 9 (2)]
[With an inscription by the author.]
Maltzahn (Freiherr Rudolf von). Preface to Verband zur Klarung der
Wiinschelrutenfrage, Schriften, Heft 10. [6 i 32]
174 Societf/ for Psychical Research [pakt
Maltzahn (Freiherr Rudolf von)
—
Der gegenwartige Stand der Wiinschelmtenfrage. 8vo, pp.
7-11. [6 132 (10)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1927), Heft 10.]
Neue Gesichtspunkte zur Psychologie der Wiinschelrute.
8vo, pp. 29-38. [6 132(10)]
[Part of Schrifteyi des Verbands fur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1927), Heft 10.']
Mantegazza (Paul), Die Ekstasen des Menschen. Translated from
the Italian by R. Teuscher. Only authorised German edition.
8vo, pj). xii. 461. Jena 1888.
Marbe (Karl), Eignungspriifungen fiir Rutenganger. 4to, p]3. 97-106.
[RT 3 (11)]
[Part of the Psychotechnische Zeltschrift (Miinchen, August
1927), ii.]
Marett (Robert Ranulph), Foreword to Blackman (W. S.), The Fel-
lahin of Upper Egypt. [22 e 6]
Marks & Co., A Special Catalogue of interesting Books relating to
the Occult Sciences . . . (no. 6). 8vo, pp. 52. London 1924.
[RBi 3 (2)]
Marquardt ( ), Die Sichervmgserscheinungen an der Briixer Talsperre
imd ihre Dichtung mit Hilfe der Wiinschelrute. 8vo, pp. 12-28,
10 ill. and diagrams. [6 i 32 (10)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands fur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1927), Heft 10.']
Martin (Eva), Giordano Bruno, Mystic and Martyr. 8vo, pp. 64.
The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1921. [8 g 11]
Prentice Mulford, " New Thought " Pioneer. 8vo, pp. 76.
The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1921. [8 g 18]
Martin (Helen E.), Rosanoff (A. J.) and Rosanoff (I. R.), A Higher
Scale of Mental Measurement and its Application to Cases of
Insanity. 8vo, pp. iii. 113. Psychological Monographs (xxv.
3: 109): Princeton and Lancaster 1918. [25 a 25 (109)]
Martius ( Johann Nikolaus), Unterricht in der naturlichen Magie, oder
zu allerhand belustigenden und nutzlichen Kunststucken ; vol-
lig unigearbeitet von Johann Christian Wiegleb. 8vo, pp. iv.
416, 9 folding plates. Berlin und Stettin 1779. [R 12 a 43]
[This volume also contains Johann Peter Eberhard, Abhand-
lung von der Magie.]
Massias (Baron), Probleme de Tesprit Humain, ou Origine, Developpe-
ment et Certitude de nos Connaissances ; faisant suite et com-
plement au livre du raj^port de la nature a Thomme et de I'homme
a la nature. 8vo, jjp. Ix [s*c for xl]. 404. Paris 1825. [26 e 1]
Matthews (W. R.), Philosophy, in Mind, The. [9 e 19]
108] Lihmnj Catalogue, 1927-1928 175
Maublanc (Rene) and Heyn (L. H.), Une education paro23tique. La
decouverte du monde visuel par un aveugle. 8vo, pp. 225.
Les Documents Bleus (no. 26) : Paris 1926. [6 g 24]
[Journ. xxiv. 234.]
Mauchamp (£mile), La Sorcellerie au INIaroc. CEuvre posthume.
Precedee d une fitude documentaire .sur Tauteur et I'ceuvre
par Jules Bois. 8vo, ^^P- 314, 17 portraits and ill. Paris
[1912?]. [21el5]
Maudsley (Henry), Die Physiologie und Pathologie der Seele. Nach
des Originals Zweiter Auflage Deutsch bearbeitet von Rudolf
Boehm. Vom Verfasser autorisirte Auflage. 8vo, pp. xv. 477.
Wiirzburg 1870. [10 c 5]
Maury (Alfred), Des Hallucinations Hypnogagiciues, ou Des Erreurs
ties Sens dans I'etat intermediaire entre la veille et le sommeil.
8vo, pp. 15. [3 c 10 (3)]
[Offprint from the Annales Medico-psychologiqiies (Paris
1870 ?)]
Maxfield (Francis Norton), An Experiment in Linear Space Percep-
tion. 8vo, pp. 42. xiv. 14 diagrams. The Psychological
Monographs (xv. 3 : 64) : Princeton and Lancaster, July 1913.
[25 a 15 (64)]
Max-Getting (Suzanne), La Fusion des Etres. 12mo, pp. xx. 47.
Paris 1927. [RS 15 (6)]
[Mediumistic communications.]
Maxwell (J.), La Divination. Magie et Divination. Arts divina-
toires et prophetie. L'Individualite et la personnalite humaines.
12mo, pp. 282. Bibliotheque de PhilosojDhie Scientifique :
Paris 1927. [17 f 7]
Mead (G. R. S.), Some Mystical Adventures. 8vo, pp. v. 303.
London 1910. [22 a 20]
and Besant (A.), Editors of Blavatsky (H. P.), The Secret
Doctrine. [7 g 9-12]
Meade (G. Willoughby), Chinese Ghouls and Goblins. 8vo, pp. xv.
432,16 111. London 1928. [22 e 15]
[Journ. xxiv. 292.]
Means (Marie Hackl), A Tentative Standardization of a Hard
Opposites Test. 8vo, pp. v. 65, 6 diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xxx. [1] : 134) : Priiiceton and Lancaster 1921.
[With a bibHography.] [25 a 30 (134)]
Mehlis (Georg), Die Mystik in der Fiille ihrer Erscheinungsformen in
alien Zeiten und Kulturen. 8vo, pp. 244. Miinchen 1927.
[22 b 17]
Melville (John), Crystal -Gazing and the Wonders of Clairvoyance,
embracing practical instructions in the art, history, and philo-
176 Society for Psychical Research [part
sophy of this ancient science. To which is appended an Abridg-
ment of Jacob Dixon's " Hygienic Clairvoyance," with various
Extracts and Original Notes. 8vo, pp. 98, 4 diagrams. New
and revised edition. London n.d. [10 f 16]
[With a bibliography.]
Mendel (E.), Der Hypnotismus. 8vo, pp. 38. Hamburg 1889.
[R 20 d 50]
Merriman (Curtis), The Intellectual Resemblances of Twins. 8vo,
pp. V. 58. Psychological Monographs (xxxiii. 5 : 152) : Prince-
ton 1924. [25 a 33 (152)]
Merrington (Ernest Northcroft), The Problem of Personality. A
Critical & Constructive Study in the light of recent thought.
8vo, pp. x. 229. London 1916. [26 g 11]
Messenger (J. Franklin), The Perception of Number. 8vo, p]?. iii.
44, 2 plates. The Psychological Review : Monograph Supple-
ment (v. 5 : 22) : Lancaster and New York, June 1903.
[25 a 5 (22)]
Metopus, Concerning Virtue, in lamblichus, Life of Pythagoras.
[8 e 10]
Meyer (B. M.), Translation from the German edition of Hoffding (H.),
The PhilosoiDhy of Religion. [26 g 6]
Meyer (Semi), Die Zukunft der Menschheit. 8vo, pp. 58. Grenz-
fragen des Nerven- imd Seelenlebens (xvi. 104) : Wiesbaden
1918. [R 20 f 16 (107)]
Meyer-Liine (Use), Translation of Lamm (M.), Swedenborg. [8 f 13]
Mezger (Edmund), Personlichkeit imd strafrechtliche Zurechnung.
8vo, pp. 42. Grenzfragen des Nerven- mid Seelenlebens (no.
124) : Miuichen 1926. [R 20 f 19 (124)]
Miller (E. Morris), Brain Capacity and Intelligence. Including a
comjDarison of brain measurements of Tasmanian and Victorian
school boys ;
together with a comiDarison of the variations of
cubic capacity of brain at normal and subnormal levels of mental
develojoment. With Preface by Hon. J. Allan Guy. 8vo, pp.
79. Australasian Association of Psychology and PhilosojJhy
(Monograph Series, no. 4) : Sydney, Hobart 1926. [RP 9 (6)]
Michelet (Carl Ludwig), Vorlesungen iiber die Personlichkeit Gottes
und IJnsterblichkeit der Seele, oder die ewige Personlichkeit des
Geistes. 8vo, pp. x. 314. [26 e 3]
Mind, The. By Various Authors. Edited by R. J. S. McDowall.
With an Introduction by Ernest Barker. 8vo, pp. xv. 316.
London 1927. [9 e 19]
[Journ. xxiv. 239. Discussions of the mind from the points
of view of the several sciences : J. S. Huxley, Biology ; R. J. S.
McDowall, Physiology ; F. A. P. Aveling, Psychology ; J. A.
108] Lihrarij Catalogue, 1927-1928 177
Hadfield, Psychotherapy ; F. A. Lindemann, Physics ; W. R.
Matthews, Philosophy ; J. D. Wilson, Education ; R. G. Colling-
wood, /Esthetic ; C. G. Seligmann, Anthropology ; L. T.
Hobhouse, Sociology.^
Miner (James Burt), Motor, Visual and Applied Rhythms. An Experi-
mental Study and a Revised Explanation. 8vo, pp. iv. 106, 2 ill.
The Psychological Review: Monograph Supplements (v. 4: 21) :
Lancaster and New York, Jime 1903. [25 a 5 (21)]
[With a bibliography.]
Mitchell (David), The Influence of Distractions on the Formation of
Judgments in Lifted Weight Experiments. Bvo, pp. 50. viii,
12 diagrams. The Psychological Monographs (xvii. 3 : 74,
Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of
Pennsylvania) : Princeton and Lancaster, October 1914.
[25 a 17 (74)]
Mitchell (T. W.), Divisions of the Self and Co -consciousness. 8vo,
pp. 191-203. [RP 9 (7)]
[Offprint from Problems of Personality.']
The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. 8vo, pp. 338-352. [13 h 6 (7)]
[Offprinted from Proc. S.P.R. (1911), xxv, and re-issued,
with the addition of a titlepage and printed wrapper, as vol. ii,
part 3, of the Transactions of the Psycho-Medical Society.]
Problems in Psychopathology. 8vo, pp. v. 190. Inter-
national Library of Psychology, Philosophy and Scientific
Method : London 1927.
[Wi th an inscription by the author. Pre-Freudian psychology,
Freud and psycho-analysis, theory of the libido, the ego in
Freudian psychology, theory of the instincts and of the nem-oses,
apiDlications of medical psychology, survey of the doctrines of
medical psychology.]
Mitchell (W.), Structure & Growth of the Mind. 8vo, pp. xxxv. 512.
London 1907. [9 c 17]
Moecke (Max), Editor of Okkultismus, Der.
Molitor (Ulric), Des Sorcieres et des Devineresses. Reiaroduit en
fac-simile d'apres I'edition latine de Cologne 1489 et traduit pour
la premiere fois en fran^ais. 4to, pp. [Ixii]. 84, 6 ill. Biblio-
theque Magique des xv= et xvi= Siecles (vol. I) : Paris 1926.
[No. 242 of an edition of 500 copies.] [R 21 i 12]
Moll (Albert), Beriihmte Homosexuelle. 8vo, pp. iv. 80. Grenz-
fragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xi. 75) : Wiesbaden 1910.
[R 20 f 11 (75)]
Mondeil (G.), Le Fluide Humain devant la Physiciue revelatrice et
la Metapsychique Objective. Contribution a I'fitude experi-
mentale des phenomenes iSlectriques, Lumineux, Magnetiques
et Physiologiques, Psychiques et Parapsychiques. 8vo, pp. xvi.
652, 43 ill. Paris 1927. [17 h 18]
178 Societif for Psychical Resemch [part
Monroe (Margaret M.), Tlie Energy Value of the Minimum Visible
(.'lu'omatic and Achromatic for Different Wavelengths of the
Sjaectrmn. 8vo, pp. v. 60, 25 diagrams. Psychological Mono-
graphs (xxxiv. 5 : 158) : Princeton and Albany 1924 [on cover :
1925]. [25 a 34 (158)]
[With a bibliography.]
Moog (W.), ilber Spaltimg und Verdopplung der Personlichkeit.
8vo, pp. 36. Second-third edition. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 33) :
PfuUingen [1922 ? ]. R 20 e 3 (33)]
Moore (Bruce V.), Personnel Selection of Graduate Engineers. The
Differentiation of Apprentice Engineers for Training as Sales-
men, Designers, and Executives of Production. With a Preface
by W. V. Bingham. 8vo, pp. x. 85, 21 diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xxx. 5: 138) : Princeton and Lancaster 1921.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 30 (138)]
Moore (Henry Thomas), The Genetic Aspect of Consonance and Dis-
sonance. 8vo, pp. 68, 27 diagrams. The Psychological Mono-
graphs (xvii. 2 : 73, Studies from the Psychological Laboratory
of Harvard University) : Princeton and Lancaster, September
1914. [25 a 17 (73)]
Moore (J.) and (A.), Preface to Niven (J. C), Difficulties Experienced
by Spirit Control. [24 d 20]
Moore (Thomas Verner), The Correlation Between Memory and
Perception in the Presence of Diffuse Cortical Degeneration.
8vo, pp. 297-345. Psychological Monographs (xxvii. [3] : 120,
Psychological Studies from the Catholic University of America,
4) : Princeton and Lancaster 1919. [25 a 27 (120)]
Image and Meaning in Memory and Perception. 8vo, pp.
67-296. Psychological Monogra23hs (xxvii. [2] : 119, Psycho-
logical Studies from the Catholic University of America, 3) :
Princeton and Lancaster 1919. [25 a 27 (119)]
[With a bibliography.]
Percy Bysshe Shelley. An Introduction to the Study of
Character. 8vo, pp. iii. 62. Psychological Monographs (xxxi.
2 : 141, Psychological Studies from the Catholic University of
America, 6) : Princeton and Lancaster [on cover : Princeton]
1922. [25 a 31 (141)]
A Study in Reaction Time and Movement. 8vo, pp. iii. 86,
1 1 diagrams. The Psychological Review : Monograph Supple-
ments (vi. 1 : 24) : Lancaster and New York, April 1904.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 6 (24)]
, Furfey (P. H.) a)i.d Loughran (M. E.), Clinical and Psycho-
analytic Studies. 8vo, pp. 347-440, 2 folding tables. Psycho-
logical Monographs (xxvii. [4] : 121, P.sychological Studies from
the Catholic University of Anierica, 5) : Princeton and Lancaster
1919. [25 a 27 (121)]
[With a bibliography.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 179
Mortillet (Gabriel), Histoire de I'Hydroscopie et de la baguette
divinatoire. 8vo, pp. 88, 4 ill. Chambery 1849. [RDo 2(1)]
[With MS. notes by Sir W. E. Barrett.]
Mousseaux (Gougenot des), Mceurs et Pratiques des Demons, ou Des
esprits visiteurs, du spiritisme ancien et moderne. 8vo, pp. xl.
436. Second edition, entirely recast and much enlarged. Paris
1865. [21 b 15]
Murray (Oswald), The SjDiritual Universe. A Cosmic Philosophy,
based on teachings by beings in sujDernal states. 8vo, pp. 295.
London 1924. [26 h 4]
Nagel (Robert), Editor of Helrad (L.), Botschaften aus dem Geister-
reich. [R 20 e 14 (161-2)]
Nagel (Rudolf), Der moderne Gespensterglauben genannt Spiritismus.
Kiu'z beleuchtet. 8vo, pp. vii. 66. Leipzig 1880. [RS 16 (2)]
[With a bibliography.]
Nayak (L. B.) aiul Spencer (F. B.), Foreword to Vohu Esfoma. [7 h 21]
Neidhart (A.), Das Zweite Gesicht. Vor- imd Fernschau zukiinftiger
Ereignisse. Ein Blick in die Tiefen der Seele. 8vo, pp. 23. Die
Okkulte Welt (no. 140) : PfuUingen [1925 ? ]. [R 20 e 12 (140)]
Niven (Jessie C), The Continuation of Spirit Life. Transmitted to
J. C. Niven in the Year 1925. With a Foreword by W. Harold
Speer. 8vo, pp. vii. 29. [London 1926 ? ] [24 d 19]
Difficulties Experienced by Spirit Control. Transmitted to
J. C. Niven in the year 1927. With a Preface by the Misses
J. and A. Moore. 8vo, pp. 19. [London 1927.] [24 d 20]
[Journ. xxiv. 163.]
Greenfields. The life of Douglas Scott Niven. Transmitted
to his sister Jessie in the year 1921 (August to October). 8vo,
pp. 63. London [1923]. [24 d 3]
Nordberg (E.), Vom Jenseits der Sinne. 8vo, iDp. 48. Die Okkulte
Welt (no. 29) : Pfullingen 1922. [R 20 e 3 (29)]
Nordmann (Charles), L'Au-Dela. Face au probleme de Timmortalite.
8vo, pp. 256. Eleventh thousand. [Paris] 1927. [26hl9]
\_Journ. xxiv. 287.]
Normann (Robert), Die Syrobolik des Traumes. Traumdeutung auf
allgemein zuganglichen psychoanalytischer Grundlage. 8vo, pp.
264. Prien (Obb.) 1923. [3 d 4]
Nusslein (Heinrich), Catalogue of an Exhibition of Occult Paintings
[by H. Niisslein]. Foreword by Ivan Baker. 8vo, pp. [8].
[London 1927.] [RPR 11 (13)]
[Foreword by Sir A. C. Doyle.] 8vo, pp. [8]. [London
1928]. [RPR 11 (14)]
180 Society for Psychical Research [part
O'Donnell (Elliott), Ghosts Helpful and Harmful. 8vo, pp. xi. 260.
London 1924. [17 f 9]
Oesterreich (Traugott Konstantin), Grundbegriffe der Parapsycho-
logie. Eine philosophische Studie. 8vo, pp. 55. Die Okkulte
Welt (no. 25) : Pfullingen 1921. [R 20 e 3 (25)]
Der Okliultismus im modernen Weltbild. 8vo, pp. 288.
Third, greatly enlarged edition. Dresden 1923. [5 d 26]
[Helene Smith, clairvoyance and telepathy, psychometry,
Mrs Piper, cross-correspondences, physical mediumship, tele-
Idnesis, Eusapia Palladino, materialisations, Eva C, Kluski,
Miss Goligher, Stanislawa Tomczyk, personal observations of
Marie S. and Willy Sch., recent investigations ;
bibliography.
With an inscription by the author.]
Les Possedes. La possession demoniaque chez les primitifs.
dans I'antiquite, au moyen-age, et dans la civilisation moderne.
Authorised translation by Rene Sudre. 8vo, pp. 478. Biblio-
theque Scientifique : Paris 1927. [22el3]
\Journ. xxiv. 239.]
Ogden (C. K.), Translation of Driesch (H.), The History and Theory
of Vitalism. [26 g 7]
Translation of Farigoule (Louis), Eyeless Sight. [10 g 4]
Okkultismus und Spiritismus. See Siiddeutsche Monatshefte . . .
Okkultismus mid Spiritismus. [6 h 5]
Olcott (Henry S.), Translation and annotation, with an Appendix, of
Assier (H. d'), Posthrmious Humanity. [17 b 24]
Old Diary Leaves : the True Story of the Theosophical
Society. 8vo, pp. xi. 491, 16 portraits and ill. [On cover:
Third Series.] New York, London, Madras 1895. [7 f 25]
Blavatsky (H. P.), Besant (A.) and Jinarajadasa (C), The
Theosophical Society : the first Fifty Years. Edited by B. P.
Howell. 8vo, pp. xiii. 79. London 1925. [RTh 5 (8)]
Olliver (C. W.), An Analysis of Magic & Witchcraft. A Retrospective
Introduction to tlie Study of Modern Metapsychics. 8vo, pp.
xi. 244, 8 ill. and 8 diagrams. London [1928]. [21 f 4]
Opsopoeus (Joannes), Editor of Oracula Metrica. [R 12 bb 14]
Oracula Metrica Jovis, Apollinis, Hecates, Serapidis, et aliorum
Deorum ac vatum tarn virorum quam foeminarum a Joanne
Opsopoeo collecta, in 2i/3i;\X(a/cot Xprj<Tfj.oi. [R 12 bb 14]
Orleans (Felix, l5veque d'), Lettre in Puchesse (Baguenault de),
LTnunortalite. [26 e 7]
Ortmann (Otto), On the Melodic Relativity of Tones. 8vo, pp. iii.
47, 37 diagrams and ill. Psychological Monographs (xxxv. 1 :
162) : Princeton and Albany 1926. [25 a 35 (162)]
[With a bibliography.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 181
Osswald (Kurt), Geologische Beobachtungen mit der Wiinschelmte.
8vo, pp. 14-33, 4 diagrams. [6 i 32 (11)]
[Part of Schri/ten des Verbands zur Kldrung der Wunschel-
nctenfrage (Stuttgart 1928), Heft 11.]
Osty (Eugene), Une Faculte de Connaissance Supranormale. Pascal
Forthuny. With a Preface by P. Forthuny. 8vo, pp. xi. 180,
portrait. Paris 1926. [5 b 23]
[Journ. xxiv. 47.]
Owen (Roberts Bishop), Recognition : a Logical and Experimental
Study. 8vo, pp. vi. 154. The Psychological Monographs (xx.
2 : 86, Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of the Uni-
versity of Chicago) : Princeton and Lancaster, October 1915.
[With a bibhography.] [25 a 20 (86)]
Pace (Edward A.), Editor of Psychological Studies from the Catholic
University of America. [25 a]
Padey (Benoit), Traite Complet des Secrets de la baguette et du
pendule des Sourciers. Tome Premier, Sources—Minerais
—
Meteorologie. 8vo, pp. iv. 450, numerous ill. and diagrams.
Second edition, greatly revised and enlarged. Paris 1927.
[6h 35]
Pagenstecher (Gustav), Die Geheimnisse der Psychometrie oder
Hellsehen in die Vergangenheit (Past Events Seership). Eine
psychometrische Studie frei aus dem Englischen iibersetzt,
verbessert und vermehrt vom Verfasser. Introduction by H.
Driesch and Preface by W. F. Prince. 8vo, pp. 157, portrait
and 9 ill. Leipzig 1928. [6 g 19]
[The original appeared in Proc. Amer. S.P.R. (1922), xvi.]
Palmer (E. Clephan), The Riddle of Spiritualism. 8vo, pp. xiv. 146.
London [1927]. [24 d 27]
[Journ. xxiv. 240.]
Paterson (Donald G.) mid Pintner (R.), Learning Tests with Deaf
Children. 8vo, pp. iii. 23, xiv, 35 diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xx. 4 : 88) : Princeton and Lancaster, February
1916. [25 a 20 (88)]
Paul (Eden) and (Cedar), Translation of Janet (P.), Psychological
Healing. [10 e 3-4]
Paul (Nancy Margaret) and Ruhe (A.), Henri Bergson : an Account
of his Life and Philosophy. 8vo, pp. ix. 245. London 1914.
[8 c 2]
Pechstein (Louis Augustus), Whole vs. Part Methods in Motor
Learning. A Comparative Study. 8vo, pp. v. 80, 2 diagrams.
The Psychological Monographs (xxiii. 2 : 99, Studies from the
Psychological Laboi-atory of the University of Chicago) :
Princeton and Lancaster 1917. [25 a 23 (99)]
[With a bibliography.]
182 Society for Psychical Research [part
Penny (Edward Burton), Translation of Saint-Martin (L. C. de), Man :
his true nature and mystery. [22 a 8]
Perrin (Fleming Allen Clay), An Experimental and Introspective
Study of the Human Learning Process in the Maze. 8vo, pp. v.
97, 27 diagrams and 1 folding table. The Psychological Mono-
graphs (xvi. 4 : 70, Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of
the University of Chicago) : Princeton and Lancaster, July 1914.
[25a"l6(70)]
Perty (Maximilian), Materialisationen und experimentelle Geister-
erscheinungen. Neu herausgegeben, eingeleitet und mit einem
Nachwort iiber die neueren Ergebnisse auf dem Gebiete der
Materialisationsforschung versehen von Peter Spanir. 8vo, pp.
64. Third-fifth edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (nos. 138-139)]:
Pfullingen [1925 ?] [R 20 e 12 (138-9)]
Peter (Josef), Die Photographien des Unsichtbaren. 8vo, pp. 53,
3 ill. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 31/32) : Pfullingen [1921 ?].
[R 20 e 3 (31-32)]
Psychometrie. Hellsehen in Raum und Zeit. 8vo, pp. 47.
Third-fifth [on wrapper : 4th-5th] edition. [Die Okkulte Welt
(no. 71/72)] : Pfullingen 1921. [R 20 e 6 (71-72)]
Spuk, Geister- und Gespenster-Erscheinungen. 8vo, pp. 62.
Third-fifth edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 155)] : Pfullingen
1921. [R 20 e 13 (155)]
Peterson (Harvey Andrew), On the Influence of Complexity and Dis-
similarity on Memory. 8vo, pp. v. 87, mmierous ill. The
Psychological Review : Psychological Monographs (xii. 2 : 49) :
Lancaster and Baltimore, November 1909. [25 a 12 (49)]
Peterson (John C), The Higher Mental Processes in Learning. 8vo,
pp. vi. 121, 2 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxviii. 7 :
129) : Princeton and Lancaster 1920. [25 a 28 (129)]
Peterson (Joseph), Combination Tones and other Related Auditory
Phenomena. 8vo, pp. xiii. 136. The Psychological Review :
Psychological Monographs (ix. 3 : 39, Studies from the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Lancaster
and Baltimore, November 1908. [25 a 9 (39)]
[With a bibliography.]
Pettow (Ralph), Der krankhafte Werkleidungstrieb. Beitrage zur
Erforschung der Transvestie. 8vo, pp. 77. Second-third
edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 144/145)] : Pfullingen 1922.
[R 20 e 12 (144-5)]
Pfaff (C. H.), LTeber und gegen den thierischen Magnetismus und die
jetzt vorherrschende Tendenz auf dem GJebiete desselben. 8vo,
pp. xxiii. 184. Hamburg 1817. [R 20 d 52]
Pfohl (Erica), Translation of Leuba (J. H.), Die Psychologie der
religiosen Mystik. [R 20 f 19, ( 128-130)]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 183
Philosophie und Psychologie. Zusanimengestellt und herausgegeben
unter Mitwerkung von hervorragenden Fochleuten. 8vo, pp.
160. Biicherverzeichnisse aus alien Gebieten (I) : Leipzig
[1926]. [RBi3(3)]
Physician, A, Dreams and the Interpretation of them. 8vo, pp. vii.
112, 8 ill. and diagrams. [London] 1925. [3 d 9]
Physikalischen Phanomene der Grossen Medien, Die. Eine Abwehr
von K. Gruber, W. Kroner, R. Lambert, T. K. Oesterreich,
A. von Schrenck-Notzing, R. Tischner und D. Walter. Edited
by A. von Schrenck-Notzing. 8vo, pp. vii. 280. Stuttgart,
Berlin, Leipzig 1926. [5 g 15]
[Proc. xxxvi. 387. This work is a reply to Gulat-Wellenburg,
Rosenbusch and Klinckowstroem, Der physikalische Medimnis-
mus (1925).]
Pierce (Samuel Eyles), The Unseen World and State Opened to the
Intellectual Faculty and Spiritual Mind, suited to such intuitive
apprehensions as may be formed thereof from the written word
of God. In which are recorded Various Appearances of the Lord
God, realised In Sights of Him—in Visions—Dreams—Raptures
—Trances, such only as are related in the Old and New Testa-
ment ; which prove, how the Lord God hath by these, wrought
upon the Sensory, and thereby admitted to a Sight and Know-
ledge of invisible Realities, which could be obtained by no other
means or medium. The Design is to lead the minds of grown
Saints, into Scriptural Apprehensions of the World, State,
Objects and Subjects which will be opened to their view, when
they enter the Invisible World, to which they are hastening ;
with an account of Paul's Rapture into Paradise and the Third
Heaven ; also of the Immediate and Disembodied State,—of
the New Jerusalem, or Resurrection State, and of the LTltimate
State, where Christ who dwelleth in the light which no man can
approach unto, whom no man hath seen, nor can see, to whom be
honour and power everlasting. Amen, shall shine forth in his
personal glory, and God shall be all in all. [Prefatory Address
by Wm. More.] 12mo, pp. xxx. 140. London 1824.
[R 12 c 28]
Pilcz (Alexander), Die Verstimmungszustande. 8vo, pp. 44. Grenz-
fragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (x. 63): Wiesbaden 1909.
[With a bibliography.] [R 20 f 10 (63)]
Pintner (Rudolph) and Paterson (D. G.), Learning Tests with Deaf
Children. 8vo, pp. iii. 23. xiv, 35 diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xx. 4 : 88) : Prmceton and Lancaster, February
1916. •
[25 a 20 (88)]
Plancy (J. C. de), Dictionnaire Infernal. Repertoire Universel des
etres, des personnages, des livres, des faits et des choses qui tien-
nent aux esprits, aux demons, aux sorciers, au commerce de
I'enfer, aux divinations, aux malefices, a la cabale et aux sciences
gccultes, aux prodiges, aux impostures, aux superstitions
184 Society for Psychical Research [part
diverses et aux pronostics, aux faits actuels du spiritisme, et
generalement a toutes les fausses croyanees merveilleuses, sur-
prenantes, mysterieuses et surnaturelles. Sixieme iSdition,
augmentee de 800 articles nouveaux, et illustree de 550 gravures,
parmi lesquelles les portraits de 72 demons, dessines par M. L.
Breton, d'apres les documents formels. 8vo, pp. viii. 723.
Paris 1863. [21 h 32]
Poinsot (M. C), Introduction to Encyclopedie des Sciences Occultes.
[R 21 h 36]
Polus, On Justice, in lamblichus, Life of Pythagoras. [8 e 10]
Powell (Arthur E.), The Astral Body and other astral phenomena.
8vo, pp. xiv. 273. London 1926. [7 f 18]
[With a bibliography.]
Pratt (James Bissett), The Religious Consciousness : a Psychological
Study. 8vo, i^p. ix. 488. [Sixth impression.] New York 1926.
[9 6 15]
Preyer (W.), Grashey ( ), Hirt ( )
wid Schrenck-Notzing (A. von),
Der Pi'ozess Czynski. Thatbestand desselben imd Gutachten
iiber Willensbeschrankung durch hyiDnotisch-suggestiven Einfluss
abgegeben vor dem oberbayerischen Schwurgericht zu Miinchen.
8vo, pp. iii. 102. Stuttgart 1895. [RHy 14 (5)]
Prince (Walter Franklin), Foreword to Keene (S.), Evidence of
Things not Seen.
Introduction to Pagenstecher (G.), Die Geheimnisse der
Psychometrie. [6 g 19]
The Case of Patience Worth. A Critical Study of Certain
Unusual Phenomena. 8vo, pp. 509, portrait. Boston Society
for Psychic Research : Boston 1927. [3 f 3]
[Proc. xxxvi. 573. A case of dual personality accompanied
by automatic writing.]
Experiments with Physical Mediums in Europe. A Detailed
Study in the Interpretation of Indicia by the Research Officer of
the Boston Society for Psychic Research. 8vo, pp. 113, 6
portraits, ill. and diagrams. Boston Society for Psychic
Research (Bulletin VII) : Boston, Jamiary 1928.
[Journ. xxiv. 271.]
The Principles of Psychic Research. An Inaugural Address.
Foreword by Elwood Worcester. 8vo, pp. 30. Boston Society
for Psychic Research (Document I) : Boston, March 1925.
The Psychical Congress in Paris. Also a paper on the Cure
of Two Cases of Paranoia. By the Research Officer of the
Boston Society for Psychic Research. 8vo, pp. 72. Boston
Society for Psychic Research (Bulletin VI) : Boston, December
1927.
[Journ. xxiv. 223.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 185
Proces de Sorciers a Viry, Bailliage de Ternier, de 1534 a 1548. Docu-
ments inedits recueillis par Cesar Duval. Introduction by Eloy
Duboin. 8vo, pp. 299-515. [21 e 11],
[Offprint from the Bulletin de V Institut National de Geneve,
xxiv.]
Professional, A. See [Tompkins (B.)].
Prospero, Editor of Geschichten von Klopf- und Plagegeistern.
[R 20 e 15 (173-4)]
Puchesse (Baguenault de), L'Immortalite, la mort et la vie. l5tude
sur la destinee de I'homme. Precedee d'lme lettre de Mon-
seigneur I'fiveque d'Orleans. 12mo, pp. vii. 429. Second
edition. Paris 1864. [26 e 7]
Quade (Fritz), Die Jenseitigen. Uber die Moglichkeit und Tatsach-
lichkeit eines geistigen Lebens ohne Sinnesorgane und Gehirn.
Studienergebnisse und okkulte Ei'lebnisse. 8vo, pp. 95. Third-
fifth edition. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 4-5) : [Berlin 1920 ?].
[R 20 e 1 (4-5)]
Quaestor Vitae. See Murray (Oswald).
Quandt (J. G. von), Wissen imd Seyn. Eine realistische Abhandlung
zur Aiisgleichi.mg' des Spiritualismus und JMaterialismus. 8vo,
pp.112. Dresden 1859. [26 e 5]
Quintilian, Pseudo-, The Tenth Declamation of (Pseudo) Quintilian.
A lecture by [or rather, translated by] Robinson Ellis. 8vo, pp.
24. London and Oxford [1911]. [RAH 4 (3)]
[Proc. XXV. 361. The declamation arose from an apparition].
Raecke ( ), Der Qiierulantenwahn. Ein Beitrag zur sozialen
Psychiatric. 8vo, pp. 84. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (no. 127) : Miinchen 1926. [R 20 f 19 (127)]
[With a bibliography.]
Rahn (Carl), The Relation of Sensation to other Categories in Con-
temporary Psychology. A Study iia the Psychology of Think-
ing. 8vo, pp. V. 131. The Psychological Monographs (xvi. 1 :
67) : Prmceton and Lancaster, December 1913. [25 a 16 (67)]
Ramayandas (Swami S. D.), Mediumship : its Laws and Phenomena.
8vo, pp. 83. London n.d. [5 b 24]
Rand (Gertrude), The Factors that Influence the Sensitivity of the
Retina to Color : a Quantitative Study and Methods of Stan-
dardizing. 8vo, pp. xi. 166. The Psychological Monographs
(XV. 1 : 62) : Princeton and Lancaster, March 1913. [25 a 15 (62)]
— and Ferree (C. E.), Radiometric Apparatus for Use in Psycho-
logical and Physiological Optics. Inehiding a Discussion of the
Various Types of Insti'uments that have been used for Measuring
Light Intensities. 8vo, pp. xvi, 65, 6 diagrams and ill. The
Psychological Monographs (xxiv. 2 : 103) : Princeton and
Lancaster 1917. [25 a 24 (103)]
18(3 Society for Psychical Research [part
Rank (Otto) and Sachs (Hanns), Die Bedeutung der Psychoanalyse
fiir die Geisteswissenschaften. 8vo, pp. v. iii. Grenzfragen des
Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xiv. 93) : Wiesbaden 1913.
[R 20 f 14 (93)]
Ratcliff (A. J. J.), A History of Dreams. A Brief Account of the
Evolution of Dream Theories, with a chapter on the dream in
literature. With an Introduction by Godfrey Hilton Thomson.
8vo, pp. vii. 247. London 1923. [3 d 1]
Raubenheimer (Albert Sydney), An Experimental Study of some
Behavior Traits of the Potentially Delincjuent Boy. 8vo, pp. v.
107, 8 diagrams. [Psychological Monographs (xxxiv. 6 : 159) :
Princeton and Albany] May 1923. [25 a 34 (159)]
[With a bibliography.]
Reamer (Jeannette Chase), Mental and Educational Measurements of
the Deaf. 8vo, pp. ix. 130, numerous diagrams and 2 folding
tables. Psychological Monographs (xxix. 3 : 132) : Princeton
and Lancaster 1921. [25 a 29 (132)]
Recit Veritable de I'efifet d'un malheureux Sort Magique nouvellement
arrive sur cinq Habitans et deux Danioiselles de la Ville de
Chasteaudun et des effroyables actions qu'ils font journellement
au grand estonnement du Peujole. Avec tout ce qui s'est passe
a ce sujet. 8vo, pp. 11. Paris 1637 [coloishon : Lyon 1835].
[A type-facsimile.] [R 20 d 41]
Recueil de Pieces sur les Possessions des Religieuses de Louvres, in
[Histoire de Magdelaine Bevant], ii. [R 12 i 11]
Redgrove (H. Stanley), Roger Bacon, the Father of Experimental
Science and Mediaeval Occultism. 8vo, pp. 63, portrait. The
" Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1920. [8 g 2]
and (L M. L.), Joannes Baptista von Helmont, Alchemist,
Physician and Philosopher. 8vo, pp. 86, portrait. The
" Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1922. [8 g 14]
Joseph Glanvill and Psychical Research in the Seven-
teenth Century. 8vo, pp. 94, portrait. The " Mystics and
Occultists " Series : London 1921. [8 g 12]
Regny (
de). Preface to Bautain ( ), Les Choses de I'autre monde.
Reich (Eduard), Physiologie des Magischen. 8vo, pp. xiii. 354.
Second edition. Leipzig 1899. [21 c 5]
[With a bibliography.]
Reich der Geister, Das. Sonderbare Geschichten aus alter Zeit. Mit
einem zeit gemassen Nachwort : Gesprach zwischen Freunden.
Von Stephanus. 8vo, pp. 64. Second-third edition. [Die
Okkulte Welt (no. 170/171)]: Pfullingen n.d. [170-1]
Reichenbach (Karl, Freihcrr von), Der sensitive Mensch imd sein
Verhalten zum Ode. Eine Reihe experimentellen Unter-
suchungen iiber ihre gegenseitigen Ki-afte und Eigenschaften
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 187
mit Riicksicht auf die praktische Bedeutung, welche sie fiir
Physik, Cheniie, Mineralogie, Botanik, Physiologie, Heilkiuide,
gerichtliche Medicin, Rechtskmide, Kriegswesen, Erziehimg,
Psychologie, Theologie, Irrenwesen, Kunst, Gewerbe, hausliche
Zustande, Menschen kenntniss und das gesellschaftliche leben
im weitesten Anfange haben. 8vo, pp. Iv. 838 +xxx. 758,
2 vols. Stuttgart tind Tiibingeu 1854-1855. [17 i 1-2]
Benaud (Andre), Critique Sincere de plusieurs ecrits sur la fameuse
baguette. Contenant la decision de ce qu'il en faut Croire, avec
la Regie pour justifier, & pour condamner de Magie mille Effets
qui nous surprennent. 12mo, pp. [viiij. 160. Lyon 1693.
[R 12 aa 17 (1)]
Reponse aux Objections de Mr Pirot Chanc. de I'l^gl. &
de rUniv. de Paris, de Mr I'Abbe de la Trappe, de Mr Basset
rObeancier, de Mr Malebranche, & d'autres Savans, contra la
Baguette. Addition a la Critique Sincere, &c. Par le meme
Auteur. 12mo, pp. 24. Second edition. Lyon 1693.
[R 12 aa 17 (2)]
Eeponse aux Objections de Mr Pirot Chanc. de I'figl. & de TUniv de
Paris, de Mr TAbbe de la Trappe, de Mr Basset I'Obeancier, de
Mr Malebranche, & d'autres Savans, centre la Baguette.
Addition a la Critique Sincere, &c. Par le meme Auteur
[Andre Renaud]. Second edition. 12mo, pjD. 24. Lyon 1693.
[R 12 aa 17 (2)]
Reves, Les, et les Moyens de les Diriger. Obsei'vations Pratiques.
[By the Marquis Hervey de Saint-Denis.] 8vo, pp. 496, coloured
plate and wrapper. Paris 1867. [3 c 11]
Rich (Viola Gertrude), Thought Radio and Thought-Transference.
8vo, pp. 52. Holyoke, Mass. 1927. [RPR 11 (17)]
Richards (E. G.), Authorized Translation of Dubois (P.), The Psycho-
logical Origin of Mental Disorders. [10 d 14]
Richardson (Florence), A Study of Sensory Control in the Rat. 8vo,
pp. iv. 124. The Psychological Review : Psychological Mono-
graphs (xii. 1 : 48, Studies from the Psychological Laboratory
of the University of Chicago) : Lancaster and Baltimore,
October 1909. [25 a 12 (48)]
Richet (Charles), L'Intelligence et I'Homme. iStudes de Psycho-
logie et de Physiologie. 8vo, pp. ix. 376. [9 e 22]
[Language and intelligence, the conditions of certitude,
memory, fear, the non-sensory channels of Imowledge and the
expei'imental method, the psychological bases of morals, self-
mastery, final causes, courage.] [9 e 22.]
Notre Sixieme Sens. 8vo, pp. 253. Paris [1927]. [6 g 25]
[Journ. xxiv. 258. With an inscription by the author.]
Rieger ( ), Ueber Hypnotismus. 8vo, pp. 20. [RHy 14 (3)]
[Offprint from the Sitzungsberichte der Wurzburger Phys.-med.
Gesellschaft (1882).]
188 Society for Psychical Research [part
Riese (Walther), \'iiicent van Gogh in der Kranldieib : ein Beitrag
zLun Proljlem der Bezielimig zwischen Kmistwerk iind Kraiildieit.
8vo, pp. 38, 6 ill. Grenzfragen des Nerven- mid Seelenlebens
(no. 125): Miinchen 1926. [R 20 f 19 (125)]
Rio (Martin del), Disqvisitionvm Magicarvm Libri Sex, in ties tomos
partiti. 4to, pp. [xx]. 101. [xv]. 102-374. [xx]. + [xvi]. 128
[wrongly numbered 133]. [xi]. 134-373. [xxii] -h [xii]. 143. [v].
145-340. [xvi], 3 vols. Lovanii 1599-1600. [R 12 bb 10-12]
[Vols, ii and iii have the additional subtitles, respectively,
De Maleftcio, Vana Observatione, Divinatiotie, & Goniectatione
and Methodvs ludicium <£; Confessariorum directioni commoda.']
Ritter (Heinrich), Unsterblichkeit. 8vo, pjo. viii. 271. Second
revised and enlarged edition. Leipzig 1866. [26 e 8j
Ritter (Sarah Margaret), The Vertical-Horizontal Illusion. An
Experimental Study of Meridional Disparities m the Visual
Field. 8vo, pp. v. 110, nimierous diagrams (including 1 folding
plate). The Psychological Monographs (xxiii. 4 : 101, Studies
from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of Chicago) :
Prmceton and Lancaster 1917. [25 a 23 (101)]
Ritti (Ant.), Theorie Physiologique de PHallucination. 8vo, pp. 76.
Paris 1874. [3 c 10 (5)]
Roback (Abraham A.), The Interference of Will-Impulses. With
Applications to Pedagogy, Ethics and Practical Efliciency. 8vo,
pp. viii. 158. Psychological Monographs (xxv. 5: 111):
Princeton and Lancaster 1918. [25 a 25 (111)]
[With a bibliography.]
Robertson (R.) and Young (J. F.), The Divining Rod : its History
—
with full instructions for finding subterranean springs, and other
useful information. Also an Essay entitled : Are the Claims
and Pretensions of the Divining Rod valid and true ? by E.
Vaughan Jenkins. 8vo, pp. 138, plan and 3 portraits. Clifton
1894.
[A few pages missing and others defective.]
Robinson (Edward Stevens), Some Factors Determining the Degree
of Retroactive Inhibition. 8vo, pp. iii. 57, 6 diagrams. The
Psychological Monographs (xxviii. 6 : 128, Stiidies from the
Psychological Laboi'atory of the University of Chicago) :
Prmceton and Lancaster 1920. [25 a 28 (128)]
Rochas (A. de), Les Vies Successives. Documents jiour I'lStude de
cette Question. 16mo, pp. vi. 462. Second edition. Paris
1924. [17e25]
Remains (Jules), pseud. See Farigoule (Louis).
Root (William T.), A Socio -Psychological Study of Fifty-three Super-
normal Children. 8vo, pp. v. 134, 9 foldmg tables. Psycho-
logical Monographs (xxix. 4 : 133) : Prmceton and Lancaster
1921. [25 a 29 (133)]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 189
Rosanoff (A.), Martin (H. E.) wid Rosanoff (Isabel R.), A Higher
(Scale of ]\Iental ]\Ieasurement and its Apj^lication to Cases of
Insanity. 8vo, pp. iii. 113. Psychological Monographs (xxv.
3 : 109) : Princeton and Lancaster 1918. [25 a 25 (109)]
Rose of Kilravock (Hugh), Water Divining. 8vo, pp. 315-320.
[RDo 2 (16)]
[Part of TJie Royal Engineers Journal (Chatham, June 1927),
xH.]
Rosenow (Curt), The Analysis of Mental Functions. 8vo, pp. iii. 43.
The Psychological Monographs (xxiv. 5 : 106, Studies from the
Psychological Laboratory of the University of Chicago) :
Princeton and Lancaster [1917]. [25 a 24 (106)]
Rosenthal (T.), Translation of Bechterew (W. v.). Das Verbrechertum.
[R 20 f 15 (94)]
Rothy (Karl), Physikalische Phanomene in Budapest. Original-
bericht. 8vo, pp. 35-39. [RPR 11 (12)]
[Part of Das Neue Licht (Wien, February 1928), vii.]
Rouby ( ), Bien-Boa et Ch. Richet. 8vo, pp. 60. Lisboa 1907.
[RPR 11 (5)]
[A criticism of the Villa Carmen phenomena. With a MS.
addition on p. 60 (? by the author).]
Rowland (Eleanor H.), The Psychological Experiences cormected
with the Different Parts of Speech. 8vo, pp. 42. The Psycho-
logical Review : Monograph Supplements (viii. 1 : 32) : Lan-
caster and Baltimore, January 1907. [25 a 8 (32)]
[With a bibliography.]
Ruch (Giles Murrel), The Influence of the Factor of Intelligence on
the form of the Learning Curve. 8vo, pp. v. 64, 9 diagrams.
Psychological Monographs (xxxiv. 7 : 160) : Princeton and
Albany 1925. [25 a 34 (160)]
[With a bibliography.]
Rudow (Heinrich), Versuch einer Theorie des Schlaffs. 8vo, pp. xvi.
286. Konigsberg 1791. [R 12 a 41)]
Ruhe (Algot) and Paul (N. M.), Henri Bergson : an Accoimt of his
Life and Philosophy. 8vo, pp. ix. 245. London 1914. [8 c 2]
Ruml (Beardsley), The Rehability of Mental Tests in the Division of
an Academic Group. 8vo, pp. iii. 63, 5 diagi-ams. Psycho-
logical Monographs (xxiv. 4 : 105, Studies from the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton
and Lancaster 19i7. [25 a 24 (105)]
Russell (Alexander S.), Streeter (B. H.), Chilcott (C. M.) and Mac-
murray (J.), Adventiu-e : the Faith of Science and the Science
of Faith. 8vo, pp. ix. 247. London 1927. [26 h 20]
190 Society for Psychical Research [part
Bust (Hans), Das Zungenreden. Eine Studie zur Itt'itischen Religions-
psychologie. 8vo, pp. vi. 74. Grenzfrageii des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (no. 118) : Miinchen 1924. [R 20 f 18 (118)]
[With a bibliography.]
Eutengangerversuche zur Auffindung von Wasserleitungsschaden,
Aiihang zum Verwaltungsbericht 1911 der Mihichener Wasser-
versorgung. [Preface by Heule and Zottmann.] 4to, pp. [52],
46 plans. Mimchen, Dezember 1912. [RT 3 (3)]
Anhang zu dem Verwaltungsbericht 1911 der Miinchener
Wasserversorgimg. 8vo, pp. 5-54, 46 diagrams. [6 i 31 (5)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1913), Heft 5.] ,
S. (A. P.), Preface to Wingfield (K.), More Guidance from Beyond.
[24 d 25]
S. (H. T.), The Rose Miraculous. The Story of the Sangreal. No. vi
of the Glastonbmy Scripts. 8vo, pp. 30. Glastonbury 1924.
[Automatic writings versified by F. B. Bond.] [R 27 g]
Sachs (E. H.), Translation of Jones (E.), Der Alptraum. [10 f 6]
Sachs (Hanns) and Rank (Otto), Die Bedeutung der Psychoanalyse
fiir die Geisteswissenschaften. 8vo, pp. v. 111. Grenzfragen
des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xiv. 93) : Wiesbaden 1913.
[R 20 f 14 (93)]
Sadee (L.), Vom deutschen Plutarch. Ein Beitrag zur Entwicklungs-
geschichte des deutschen Klassizismus. 8vo, pp. v. 91. Grenz-
fragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xi. 76) : Wiesbaden 1911.
[R 20 f 11 (76)]
Sadger (J.), Heinrich von Kleist. Eine pathographisch-psycholo-
gisclie Studie. 8vo, pp. 63. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (x. 70) : Wiesbaden 1910. [R 20 f 10 (70)]
Konrad Ferdinand Meyer. Eine pathographisch-psycho-
logische Studie. 8vo, pp. iii. 64. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (ix. 59) : Wiesbaden 1908. [R 20 f 9 (59)]
Uber Nachtwandeln imd Mondsucht. Eine Medizinisch-
literarische Studie. 8vo, pp. 171. Schriften zur angewandten
Seelenkunde (Heft 16) : Leipzig und Wien 1914. [10 d 15]
Sage (M.), Sur ce qui se passe chez Mme Bisson. 4to, -pp. 1-3.
[Part of La Rose Croix (Douai, Aout 1921), xxi.] [RT 3 (8)]
Saint-Martin (Louis Claude de), Man : his True Nature and Ministry.
Translated by Edward Burton Penny. 8vo, pp. xiii. 499.
London 1864. [22 a 8]
Salverte (E.), Des Sciences Oceultes ou Essai sur la Magie, les Prodiges
et les Miracles. Introduction by Littre. 8vo, pp. Ixxiv. 516,
portrait. Third edition. Paris 1856. [21 b 12]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 191
Samavidhanabrahmana, Das. Eiu Altindisches Handbuch der
Zauberei. Eingeleitet and iibersetzt von 8ten Konow. 8vo,
pp. vii. 83. Hall a-S. 1893. [RAH 4 (2)]
Sanderson (T. J. Cobden-), Cosmic Vision. 8vo, pp. 143, portrait.
[London] 1922. [26 g 32]
Savage (Geo. H.) and Tuke (D. Hack), Editors of Journal of Mental
Science, The. [2 a]
Scaliger (Joseph Juste), Editor of Astrampsychus, Oneirocriticon.
[12 bb 14]
Schaumann (J. C. G.), Psyche, oder Unterhaltungen uber die Seele.
Fur Laser und Leserinnen. 8vo, jDp. xviii. 1-294 + [viii]. 295-
640, 2 vols. Halle 1791. [R 12 aa 2]
Scheltema (Jacobus), Geschiedenis der Heksenproce.ssen. Eine
Bijdrage tot den Roem des Vaderlands. 8vo, pp. xvi. 312. 106,
portrait on titlepage. Haarlem 1828. [21 e 1]
Schiller (F. C. S.), Studies in Humanism. 8vo, \)\). xix. 492. Second
edition. London 1912. [26 f 31]
[Including essays on truth, dissociation of personality,
psychical research, dreams.]
Schmid (Rudolf), Leben und Urzeugung. 8vo, pp. 24. [Die Okkulte
Welt (no. 141 : ] Wiener Parapsychische IBibliothek, no. 15) :
PfuUingen [1926 ? ]. [R 20 e 12 (141)]
Schmitt (Clara), Standardization of Tests for Defective Children.
8vo, pp. V. 181, 9 diagrams. The Psychological Monographs
(xix. 3 : 83) : Princeton and Lancaster, July 1915.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 19 (83)]
Schneid (Math.), Der neuere Spiritismus philosophisch gepriift. 8vo,
pp. viii. 164. Eichstatt 1880. [R 20 d 48]
Schoffel (F. v.), Irrwege des Sexualtriebes und 6. Sinn. Eine okkultis-
tische Beleuchtimg des Problems perverser Liebesempfind-
ungen. 8vo, pp. 40. Third-fifth edition. [Die Okkulte Welt
(no. 149-150)] : Pfullingen 1922. [R 20 e 13 (149-50)]
Der Weg durchs Jenseits. Uber den Tod als Neugeburt und
iiber das Leben jenseits des Grabes. 8vo, pp. 63. Second-third
edition. [Die Okkulte Welt (no. 156/157)] : Pfullingen 1922.
[R 20 e 13 (156-7)]
Schrenck-Notzing (A. von), Die " Glossen des Grafen Khnckow-
stroem zu dem Metapsychischen Kongress in Paris." With a
Schlusswort by C. v. Klinckowstroem. 4to, pp. 198-199.
[RT 3 (16)]
[Part of Die Umschau (Frankfurt a. M., 3 March 1928),
xxxii.]
Handlesekunst und Wissenschaft. 8vo, pp. 39, 7 ill. Third-
fifth edition. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 20) : Berlin [1920 ?].
[R 20 e 2 (20)]
192 Society for Psychical Research [part
Schrenck-Notzing (A. von)—
, Grashey ( ), Hirt ( ) and Preyer ( W.), Der Prozess Czynski.
Thatbestaiid desselben mid Gutacliten liber Willensbeschrank-
ung durch hypnotisch-suggestiven Einfluss abgegeben vor dem
oberbayerischen Schwurgericht zu Miinchen. 8vo, pp. iii. 102.
Stuttgart 1895. [RHy 14 (5)]
Schultz (Paul), Gehirn und Seele. Vorlesungen. Edited by Her-
mann Beyer. 8vo, j)p. viii. 189. Leipzig 1906. [3 b 10]
Schultze (Ernst), Die jugendliclien Verbrecher im gegenwartigen imd
zukiinftigen Strafrecht. 8vo, pp. iv. 74. Grenzfragen des
Nerven- mid Seelenlebens (xv. 72) : Wiesbaden 1910.
[R 20 f 11 (72)]
Scribner, Welford and Armstrong, Bibliotheca Diabolica ;
being a
choice selection of the most vahiable books relating to the Devil
;
his origin, greatness, and influence, comprising the most impor-
tant works on the Devil, Satan, Demons, Hell, Hell-Torments,
Magic, Witchcraft, Sorcery, Divination, Superstitions, Angels,
Ghosts, &c. &c., with some curious vokuTies on dreams and
astrology. In two parts. Pro and Con—Serious and Humorous.
Chronologically arranged with notes, quotations and proverbs,
and a copious index. Illustrated with twelve curious designs.
4to, pp. 40. [New York] September 1874. [R 21 h 1]
[A booksellers' catalogue.]
Seashore (Carl Emil), Editor of University of Iowa Studies in Psycho-
logy. [25 a]
Sedir, Breviaire Mystique. Bvo, pp. 93. Paris 1909. [22 b 7]
[No. 89 of an edition of 520 copies.]
Seerin (Johann Caspar), Solutio cpiaestionis num Miracula certa sint
veritatis signa, quam Bono cum Deo. . . . 4to, sig. [a] i.
A",
B 3
[pp. 16]. Basileae [1700]. [R 20 d 34]
Sailing (Max), Goethe als Okkultist. 8vo, pp. 92. Die Okkulte
Welt (no. 9/10) : Berlin [1921 ?]. [R 20 e 1 (9-10)]
Seligmann (C. G.), Anthropology, in Mind, The. [9 e 19]
Sementini (Luigi), Pensieri e Si^erimenti sulla Bacchetta Divmatoria.
8vo, pp. 32, 2 diagrams. Napoh 1810. [R 20 d 38]
Sextus, Pythagoraeus, Select Sentences, in lamblichus, Life of Pytha-
goras. [8 e 10]
Seyfarth (Carly), Aberglaube mid Zauberei in der Volksmedizin
Sachsens. Ein Beitrag zur A^olkskunde des Konigreichs Sachsen.
8vo, pp. xxiii. 318. Leipzig 1913. [22 e 17]
[With a bibliography.]
Shaw (Esther E.), Some Imaginal Factors Influencing Verbal Expres-
sion. A Preliminary Study. 8vo, pp. iii. 137. Psychological
Monographs (xxvi. 2 : 113) : Princeton and Lancaster 1919.
[25 a 26 (113)]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 193
Shepherd (William T.), Some Mental Processes of the Rhesus Monkey.
8vo, pp. iii. 61. The Psychological Monograjihs (xii. 5 : 52) :
Lancaster and Baltimore, November 1910. [25 a 12 (52)]
[With a bibliography.]
Shirley (Hon. Ralph), Occultists and Mystics of all Ages. 8vo, pp.
vii. 175, 4 portraits. London 1920. [8 g 21]
[Appolonius of Tyana, Plotimis, Michael Scott, Paracelsus,
Swedenborg, Cagliostro, Anna Kingsford.]
SiPvWiaKoi XptiCT-jjioi., hoc est Sibyllina Oracula. Ex veteribus
codicibus emendata, ac restituta et commentariis diversormn
illustrata, opera & studio Servatii Gallaei : Accedmit etiam
Oracula Magica Zoroastris, Jovis, Apollinis, &c. Astrampsychi
Oneiro-Criticum, &c. Graece & Latine, cum Notis Varionmi.
4to, pp. [xxviii]. 791. [xxvii]. 127. Amstelodami 1689.
[There is an additional engraved title page.] [R 12 bb 14]
Sidgwick (Henry), Lectures on the Philosophy of Kant, and other
philosophical lectures & essays. [Editorial Note by James
Ward.] 8vo, pp. x. 475. London 1905. [26fl3]
Philosophy : its Scope and Relations. An Introductory
Course of Lectm-es. [Editorial Note bv James Ward.] 8vo,
pp. xvii. 252. London 1902. [26 f 8]
Silberer (Herbert), Durch Tod zmn Leben. Eine kurze Untersuchimg
iiber die entwicklungsgeschichtliche Bedeutung des Symbols
der Wiedergeburt in semen Urformen, mit besonderer Beriick-
sichtigung der modernen Theosophie. 8vo, j^p. 58. Beitrage
zur Geschichte der neueren Mystik imd Magie (Heft 4) : Leipzig
1915. [IV g 4]
Sillex (Ronald), The Great Discovery—Rex Rays and Principles
—
Creation—Life—Immortality—Universal Evolution. Part I.
8vo, pp. 35. Rio de Janeiro -London 1927. [R 27 g]
Simmons (Rietta) and Koch (W. L.), A Study of the Test-Perfor-
mances of American, Mexican, and Negro Children. 8vo, pp.
iii. 116, 11 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxxv. 5 :
166): Prmceton and Albany [1926]. [25 a 35 (166)]
[With a bibliography.]
Simpson (J. Hawkins), Twenty-Two Different Photos of the '
Katie
King '
Series still in Existence taken by Sir W. Crookes, F.R.S.,
in 1874. A Modern '
Legion.' The late D. D. Home. A
Freak of Nature and how he came to be such, etc. etc. 12mo,
pp. 12. London and Edmburgh 1903. [RPR 11 (4)]
Sinclair (May), The New Idealism. 8vo, pp. xi. 333. London 1922.
[26g27]
Singh (Sadhu Sundar), Visions of the Spiritual World. A brief
desciiption of the spiritual life, its different states of existence,
194 Society for Psychical Research [part
and the destiny of good and evil men as seen in visions. [Fore-
word by the I3ishop of Lahore.] 8vo, pp. xviii. 69. London
1926. [26hl2]
Sinnett (A. P.), Editor of Besant (A.) atid Leadbeater (C. W.), Occult
Chemistry. [7 g 14]
Skaggs (Ernest Burton), Further Studies in Retroactive Inhibition.
8vo, pp. V. 60, 3 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxxiv.
8: 161): Princeton and Albany 1925. [25 a 34 (161)]
[With a bibliograijhy.]
Snoddy (George S.), An Experimental Analysis of a Case of Trial and
Error Learning in the Human Subject. 8vo, pp. iv. 80, 21
diagrams and 1 folding table. Psychological Monographs (xxviii.
2 : 124) : Princeton and Lancaster 1920. [25 a 28 (124)]
[With a bibliography.]
Soldan (Wilhelm Gottlieb), Geschichte der Hexenprocesse. Aus den
Quellen dargestellt. 8vo, pp. xv. 512. Stuttgart und Tubingen
1843. [21 e 2]
Sorel (Charles Louis Frederic Hyppolite), De rintelligence chez
TAnimal. Esquisse de Psychologie Comjiaree. [Memoir by
Rene le Boeuffle.] 12mo, pp. 334. Paris [1913 ? ]. [3 a 35]
[With a bibliography of the author.]
Spanir (Peter), Editor of Perty (M.), Materialisationen.
[R 20 e 12 (138-139)]
Specht (Wilhelm), Wahrnemung mrd Halluzination. 8vo, pp. vi. 147.
Leipzig und Berlin 1914. [3 a 7]
[Spee ( )], Cavtio Criminalis ; Seu De Processibvs contra Sagas
Liber. Ad Magistratvs Germaniae hoc tempore necessarius.
Turn autem Consiliariis, et Confessariis Principuum, Inquisi-
toribus, ludicibus, Aduocatis, Confessariis Reorum, Con-
cionatoribus, caeterisq, lectu vtilissimus. Avctore Incerto Theo-
logo Romano. Preface by Joannes Gronaeus. 8vo, pp. [xvi].
459. [i]. Francofvrti 1632. [R 12 aa 18]
[Lackhig pages 69-70 and 75-76, which are suioplied in MS.]
Speer (W. Harold), Foreword to Niven (J. C), The Continuation of
Spirit Life. [24 d 19]
Spence (Lewis), An Encyclojiaedia of Occultism. A Compendivxm of
Information on the Occult Sciences, Occult Personalities,
Psychic Science, Magic, Demonology, Spiritism and Mysticism.
4to, pp. xiv. 451. London 1920. [R 21 h 35]
[With a bibliography.]
Cornelius Agrippa, Occult Philosopher. 8vo, pp. 64, portrait.
The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1921. [8 g 13]
Spencer (F. B.) and Nayak (L. B.), Foreword to Vohu Esfoma. [7 h 21]
Springett (Bernard H.), Zoroaster, the Great Teacher. 8vo, pp. 73.
The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1923. [8 g 15]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 195
Steinen (Ernst von den), Uber den natiirlichen Somnambiilismus.
8vo, pp. 30. Heidelberg 1881. [RHy 14 (2)]
Steiner (Kudolph), L'lSducation de TEnfant au point de vue de la
Science sjjirituelle. Translated by E. Levy. 12mo, pjj. 63.
Bibliotheque Theosophique : Paris 1909. [RTh5(l)]
Steinmann (Theophil), Der religiose Unsterblichkeitsglaube. Sein
Wesen mid seine Wahrheit, religionsvergleichend und kultur-
philosojjhisch mitersucht. 8vo, pp. viii. 166. Gottingen 1912.
[26 f 28]
Stekel (Wilhelm), Dichtung und Neurose. Bausteine zur Psychologie
des KiLnstlers und des Kmistwerkes. 8vo, pji. vi. 73. Grenz-
fragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (x. 65). Wiesbaden 1909.
[R 20 f 10 (65)]
Stephanus, Das Reich der Geister. Sonderbare Geschichten aus alter
Zeit. Mit einem zeitgemassen Nachwort : Gesprach zwischen
Freunden. 8vo, pp. 64. Second-third edition. [Die Okkulte
Welt (no. 170/171)] : Pfiillingen n.d. [R 20 e 15 ( 170-1)]
Stetson (Raymond Herbert), Editor of Studies from the Psychological
Laboratory of Oberlin College. [25 a]
Stiefel (Maria), Wunderbare und merkwiirdige Prophezeihungen der
Somnambiile Maria Stiefel aus Ebernberg, iiber die Zukunft der
Jahre 1848 bis 1856. 16 mo, pp. 15. Colmar n.d. [R 20 d 45]
Stieve (H.), Unfruchtbarkeit als Folge imnatiirlicher Lebensweise.
Ein Versuch, die ungewollte Kinderlosigkeit des Menschen auf
Grund von Tierversuchen und anatomischen Untersuchungen
auf die Folgen des Kulturlebens zuriickzufiihren. 8vo, pja. 52,
20 ill. and diagrams. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens
(no. 126) : Miinchen 1926. [R 20 f 19 (126)]
[With a bibliography.]
Stinchfield (Sara Mae), The Formulation and Standardization of a
Series of Graded Speech Tests. 8vo, pp. iv. 54, diagrams.
Psychological Monographs (xxxii. 2 : 149) : Princeton 1923.
[With a bibhography.] [25 a 32 ( 149)]
Stobaeus, Pythagoric Ethical Sentences, in lamblichus. Life of
Pythagoras. [8 e 10]
Stobart (St Clair), The Either-Or of Spiritualism. 8vo, jjp. v. 213.
London [1928]. [24 d 34]
[With a bibliography.]
Stocker (R. Dimsdale), Clairvoyance : Clairaudience, Psychometry,
and Clairsensience. What it is, and how it is done. 8vo, pp.
56. Fourth edition. London 1904. '
[10 f 9]
Telepathy : Mental Telegraphic Communicatibn : What it
is, and how it is done. 8vo, pp. 73, 2 diagrams. Fifth edition.
London 1904. [10 f 10]
196 Society for Psychical Research [part
Stockton (J. Leroy), The Definition of Intelligence in Relation to
Modern Methods of Mental Measurement. 8vo, -pV-
27 diagrams. Psvchological MonograjDhs (xxx. 4 : 137) :
Princeton and Lancaster 1921. [25 a 30 (137)]
[With a bibliography.]
Stone (William), Water ! Water ! Water ! . . .[on cover : Water
Supply]. 4to, pi^. [37], portrait and numerous ill. Spilsby
[1899 ? ]. [RT 3 (3)]
[The prospectus of a dowser and water engineer, with testi-
monials.]
Storch (Alfred), August Strindberg im Lichte seiner Selbstbiographie.
Eine psychopathologische Personlichkeitsanalyse. 8vo, pp. iv.
76. Grenzfragen des Nerven- imd Seelenlebens (no. Ill) :
Miinchen und Wiesbaden 1921. [R 20 f 12 ( 1 1 1 )]
Stout (J. Duerson), Collaborator in Franz (S. I.), On the Fimctions of
the Cerebrum, II. [25 a 13 (56)]
Strachey (James), Authorized translation of Freud (S.), Group
Psychology. [10 h 6]
Strausky (Erwin), Krieg \ind Geistesstorimg. Feststellungen und
Erwagungen zu diesem. Thema vom Standpunkte angewandter
Psychiatrie. 8vo, pp. 77. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und
Seelenlebens (xvi. 102) : Wiesbaden 1918. [R 20 f 16 (102)]
tjber die Dementia praeeox. Streifziige durch Klinik und
Psychopathologie. 8vo, pp. v. 46. Grenzfragen des Nerven-
mid Seelenlebens (x. 67) : Wiesbaden 1909. [R 20 f 10 (67)]
tjber krankhafte Ideen. Eine kurzgefasste Abhandlung.
8vo, pp. V. 53. Grenzfragen des Nerven- imd Seelenlebens (xv.
99) : Wiesbaden 1914. [R 20 f 15 (99)]
Streeter (B. H.) and Appasamy (A. J.), The Sadhu. A Study in
Mysticism and Practical Religion. 8vo, pp. xv. 264, portrait.
London 1921. [17 e 19]
[On Sadhu Sundar Singh.]
, Chilcott (C. M.), Macmurray (J.) and Russell (A. S.), Adven-
ture : the Faith of Science and the Science of Faith. 8vo, pp.
ix. 247. London 1927. [26 h 20]
Strohmayer (Wilhelm), Das manisch-depressive Irresein. 8vo, pp.
V. 69, 5 diagrams. Grenzfragen des Nerven- mid Seelenlebens
(xv. 98) : Wiesbaden 1914. [R 20 f 15 (98)]
Psychiatrisch-genealogische Untersuchung der Abstammung
Konig Ludwigs II und Ottos I von Bayern. 8vo, pp. iii. 68.
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xiii. 83) : Wiesbaden
1912. _
[R 20 f 13 (83)]
Ubcr die Darstellung psychisch abnormer imd geisteskranker
Charaktere auf der Blihne. 8vo, pp. 23. Grenzfragen des
Nerven- imd Seelenlebens (no. 122) : Miinchen 1925.
[R 20 f 19 (122)]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 197
Strong (Charles Augustus), The Origin of Consciousness. An attempt
to conceive the mind as a prockict of evokition. 8vo, pp. viii.
330. London 1920. [26 g 22]
Strong (Eugenie), Apotheosis and After Life. Three Lectures on
Certain Phases of Art and Rehgion in the Roman Empire. 8vo,
pp. XX. 293, 32 plates. London 1915. [17 h 12]
Studies in Psychology from the University of Illinois. Edited by
Madison Bentley. 8vo, pp. iii. 151, diagram. Psychological
Monographs (xxxv. 2 : 163) : Princeton and Albany 1926.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 35 (163)]
Studies in Social and General Psychology from the University of Illinois.
Edited by Madison Bentley. 8vo, pp. v. 115. Psychological
Monographs (xxi. 4 : 92) : Prmceton and Lancaster, June 1916.
[25 a 21 (92)]
Sudre (R.), Authorized translation of Oesterreich (T. K.), Les Pos-
sedes. [22 e 13]
Sullivan (Ellen B.), Attitude in Relation to Learning. 8vo, pp. iii.
149, 40 diagrams. Psychological ilonographs (xxxvi. 3 : 169) :
Princeton and Albany 1927. [25 a 36 (169)]
[With a bibhography.]
Supernatural Religion : an Inquiry into the Reality of Divine
Revelation. [By W. R. Cassels.] 8vo, pp. xvi. 920. Popular
Edition, carefully revised. London 1902. [17 c 16]
Swaffer (Hannen), Northcliffe's Return. [Foreword by Lord Beaver-
brook.] 8vo, pp. 286. London [1925 ? ]. [24 d 17]
Swainson (W. P.), Emanuel Swedenborg, the Swedish Seer. 8vo,
pp. 63. The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1920.
[8g9]
Jacob Boehme, the Teutonic Philosopher. 8vo, pp. 63. The
" Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1921. [8 g 17]
Theophrastus Paracelsus, Mediaeval Alchemist. 8vo, pp. 52.
The "Mystics and Occultists" Series: London 1919. [8 g 3]
Thomas Lake Harris and his Occult Teachings. 8vo, j^p. 68.
The " Mystics and Occultists " Series : London 1922. [8 g 4]
Sylvester (Reuel Hull), The Form Board Tests. 8vo, pjj. iii. 56,
5 diagrams. The Psychological jMonographs (xv. 4 : 65) :
Princeton and Lancaster, September 1913. [25 a 15 (65)]
Tabellen zur statistischen Aufzeichnung der Arbeiten mit der Wun-
schelrute. 8vo, pp. 46-48. [6 i 31 (3)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zto- Klarung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage (Stuttgart 1912), Heft 3.]
Talbot (P. Amaury), Life in Southern Nigeria : the Magic, Beliefs and
Customs of the Ibibio Tribe. 8vo, pp. xvi. 356, majD and 51
portraits and ill. London 1923. [22 e 9]
198 Society for Psychical Research [part
Tartaruga (U.), Preface to Laszky (L.), Die magnetischen Krafte des
Menscheii. [R 20 e 11 (131)]
Taylor (Thomas), Translation of lamblichus, Life of Pythagoras.
[8 e 10]
Teinturier (E.) and Bourneville ( ), Le Sabbat des Sorcier. 4to,
pp. 38, 26 ill. (including a folding plate). Second edition.
Bibliotheque Diabolique : Paris 1890. [R 20 d 51]
[One of an edition of 2.5 copies.]
Tellalian (Kricor Minas), La Lumiere par les Reves. Preface by Paul
Bodier. 12mo, pp. 91. Paris 1928. [RD 2 (3)]
Temple (William), The Nature of Personality. A Course of Lectures.
8vo, pp. xxxii. 120. [Fourth impression.] London 1915.
[26 g 9]
Tangier (Kichard), Das Du im Ich und das Ich im Du. Mystisches
Schauen laid Leben. 8vo, pp. 32. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 136 :
Wiener Parapsychische Bibliothek, no. 13) : Pfullingen [1925].
[R 20 e 12 (136)]
Terman (Lewis M.) and others, Mental and Physical Traits of a
Thousand Gifted Chiklren. 8vo, pp. xiii. 648, numerous
diagrams and tables. Second edition. Genetic Studies of
Genius (vol. i) : Stanford University, California, 1926. [9 h 5]
Teuscher (R.), Translation of Mantegazza (P.), Die Ekstasen des
Menschen.
Theages, On the Virtues, in lamblichus, Life of Pythagoras.
[8 e 10]
Theobald (Morell), Spirit Workers in the Home Circle. An Auto-
})iiigra])hic Narrative of Psychic Phenomena in Family Daily
Life extending over a Period of Twenty Years. 8vo, xvi. 310,
8 plates of facsimiles and diagrams. London 1887. [23 d 27]
Thiel (H.) and Kukuk (P.), Bericht iiber Ver.suche mit der Wiinschel-
rute im siidlichen Ruhrbezirk. 8vo, jip. 6-13, 4 diagrams.
[6132(11)]
[Part of Schrlften des Verbands zur Klarung der Wiinschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1928), Heft 11.]
Thomson (Godfrey Hilton), Introduction to Ratcliff (A. J. J.), A
History of Dreams. [3d 1]
Thorndike (Edward L.), The Mental Life of the Monkeys. 8vo, pp.
iv. 57, 5 diagrams. The Psychological Review : Monograph
Supplements (iii. 5 : 15) : Lancaster and New York, May 1901.
[25 a 3 (15)]
Thorndike (Lynn), A History of Magic and Experimental Science
during the first Thirteen Centuries of our Era. 8vo, pp. xh.
835 + vii. 1036, 2 vols. New York 1923, '
[21 d 5-6]
[With a bibliography.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 199
Thurston (Herbert), The Blood Miracles of Naples. 8vo, pp. 12, 123-
135,12. [RAH 4 (10)]
[Offprints from The Month (January-March 1927).]
A Cinderella of the Cloister. 8vo, pp. 15. [RAH 4 (14)]
[An account of the possession, etc., of the nun Eustochium.
Offprint from The Month (February 1926).]
Diabohsm. 8vo, pp. 441-454. [RAH 4 (11)]
[A review of books on witchcraft. Offprint from Studies
(September 1927).]
Poltergeists. 8vo, pp. 51-66. [RPR 11 (19)]
[Offprint from Studies (March 1928).]
'
The Problem of Materialization. 8vo, pp. 331-344, 97-109,
227-240, 11, [RPR 11 (9)]
[Offprint from The Month (October 1922, February-April
1923.) Parts III and IV have the sub-titles, " Katie King " and
" The Ectoplasmic Theory."]
— [Another copy of Part III, " Katie King."] [RC 1 (11)]
Some Physical Phenomena of Mysticism. 8vo, pp. 12, 321-
335, 14, 531-541, 11, 12, 535-547, 23-33 [imperfect].
[Offprint from The Month (April, May, August, December
1919, February, March 1921, June, July 1923). Containing
Levitation, I-II ;
Stigmatization , II ; Tokens of Espousal ; The
Mystic as a Hunger-Striker, I-II ; Incendiuin Amoris ;
" The
Blood is the Life."]
Svunmerland : the Valhalla of the Spiritualists. 8vo, pp.
231-244. [RPR 11 (20)]
[Offprint from Studies (June 1927).]
The Transition Period of Catholic Mysticism. 8vo, pp. 12,
10. [RAH 4 (15)]
[Offprint from The Month (Jime, August 1922).]
Thurstone (L. L.), The Learning Curve Equation. 8vo, pp. v. 51,
18 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxvi. 3 : 114, Studies
from the Psychological Laboratory of the University of Chicago)
:
Princeton and Lancaster 1919. [25a26(114)]
Tillyard (Aelfrida), Spiritual Exercises and their Results. An Essay
in Psychology and Comparative Religion. Svo, pp. viii. 216.
London 1927. [22 b 16]
[Journ. xxiv. 240.]
Tischner (Rudolf), Editor of Okkultismus ,
Der. [6 i 30]
Franz Anton Mesmer : Leben, Werk und Wirkungen. Svo,
pp. 176, 9 portraits, facsimiles and ill. Miinchener Beitrage zur
Geschichte und Literatur der Naturwissenschaften imd Medizin
(Heft 9-10) : Miinchen 1928. [16 g 14]
[Journ. xxiv. 292.]
200 Society for Psychical Research [part
Tolman (Edward Chace), Retroactive Inhibition as Affected by Con-
ditions of Learning. 8vo, pp. iii. 50. Psychological Mono-
graphs (xxv. 1 : 107) : Princeton and Lancaster [1918].
[25 a 25 (107)]
[Tompkins (Benjamin)], The Theory of Water-Finding, with advice
thereon. By a Professional. Svo, pp. 45. vi, portrait. [On
cover : Second edition and Cheap Edition.] Chippenham,
Wilts, and Farnworth 1892. [6.g 47]
[With an inscription by the author.]
Tremearne (A. J. N.), The Ban of the Bori. Demons and Demon-
Dancing in West and North Africa. Svo, pp. 497, 108 ill. (one
in colours). London [1914]. [22 e 5]
[Including chapters on death and the after-life, magic and
spirits.]
Trommer (Ernst), Das Problem des Schlafes [on cover : Schlafs].
Biologisch und psychophysiologisch betrachtet. 8vo, pp. iii. 89,
13 diagrams. Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (xiii.
84) : Wiesbaden 1912. [Pv 20 f 13 (84)]
Tuke (D. Hack) and Savage (Geo. H.), Editors of Journal of Mental
Science, The. [2 a]
Turner (Julia), The Dream on the Anxiety Hypothesis. 8vo, pp. vi.
77. London 1923. [3 d 3)
Human Psychology as seen through the Dream. 8vo, pp. xii.
196. London 1924. [3 d 5]
The Psychology of Self-Consciousness. 8vo, pp. xii. 243.
London 1923. [9 e 5]
Tyroler ekstatischen Jungfrauen, Die. Leitsterne in die dunkeln
Gebiete der Mvstik. [By Wilhelm Volk.] Svo, pp. vi. 450
-f- 392, 2 vols. Regensburg 1843. [22 a 7]
Ueber das Besessenseyn oder das Dasein und den Einfiuss des bosen
Geisterreichs in der alten Zeit. Mit Beriicksichtigung damon-
ischer Besitzungen der neuen Zeit. [By J. Kerner.] Svo, pp.
116. Heilbronn 1833. [R 20 d 43]
[Another impression]. Svo. pp. 116. Heilbronn 1847.
[R 12 a 44]
Ulrici (H.).Der sogenannte Spiritismus eine wissenschaftliche Frage.
Svo, pp. 34. Second, unaltered impression. Halle 1S79.
[R 20d 47 (1)]
Ueber den Spiritismus als wissenschaftliche Frage. Antwort-
schrift auf den offenen Brief des Herrn W. Wundt. Svo. pp. 28.
Halle 1879. [R 20 d 47 (3)]
Underbill (Evelyn), The essentials of ]Mvsticism, and other Essays.
Svo. pp. vii. 245. London and Toronto 1920. [22 b 3]
[Including chapters on the mysticism of Plotinus, medieval
mystics and mysticism in modern France.]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 201
Underbill (Evelyn) —
Jacopone da Todi, Poet and Mystic—1228-1306. A Spiritual
Biography. With a Selection from the spiritual songs, the
Italian text translated into English verse by Jessie Beck. Svo,
pp. xi. 521, portrait and ill. London and Toronto 1919. [8 d 12]
[With a bibliography.]
Man and the Supernatural. 8vo, pp. xi. 275. London 1927.
[With a bibliography.] [17 e 27]
The Mystic Way. A Psychological Study in Christian
Origins. 8vo, pp. xiv. 395. London and Toronto 191 4. [22 a 23]
[With a bibliography.]
Valdry (Luma), Le Mecanisme du Reve. fitude de psycho-physio-
logie. Svo, pp. vi. 134. Paris 1925. [RD 2 (2)]
Vaughan (Thomas), The Works of Thomas \'aughan : Eugenius-
Philalethes. Edited, annotated and introduced by Arthur
Edward Waite. 8vo, pp. li. 498, 1 ill. London 1919. [22 b 2]
[With a bibliography.]
Veraguth (Gertrud), Authorized translation of Waldstein (L.), Das
unterbewusste Ich.
"
[R 20 f 9 (62)]
Veraguth (Otto), Preface to Waldstein (L.), Das unterbewusste Ich.
[R 20 f 9 (62)]
Versuche mit Rutengangen, Die, Kalibergwerk Riedel bei Hanigsen
(Hannover) am 29. September 1911. 8vo, pp. 16, 3 folding
diagrams. Schriften des Verbands zur Klarung der W^iinschel-
rutenfrage (Heft 2) : Stuttgart 1912. [6 i 31 (2)]
Vertheidigung der Gedanken von Gespenstern. Andere Auflage. Svo,
pp. 47. Halle 1755. [R 12 c 14 (3)]
[A reply to Widerlegung der Gedancken von Gespenstern.]
Verweyen (Johannes M.), Die Probleme des Mediumismus. Svo, pp,
vii. 224. [6 i 6]
[Joimi. xxiv. 261.]
Vesme (C. de), Histoire du Spiritualisme experimental. Svo, pp.
xxviii. 684. Paris 1928. [22 e 16]
[Joiirn. xxiv. 240.]
Vire (Armand), Neue Experimente mit der Wiinschelrute. Trans-
lated by Graf Karl v. Klinckowstroem. 4to, pp. 3. [RT 3 (6)]
[Offprint from the Zeitschrift des Vereines der Gas- imd Wasser-
fachincinner in Osterreich-Ufigarn (Wien, 1 April 1914), liv.]
Vision Publiqve, La, d'vn horrible & tres-espouuantable Demon, sur
I'Eglise Cathedralle de Quinpercorentin en Bretagne. Le
m2
202 Society for Psychical Research [part
premier iour de ce mois de Feurier 1620. Lequel Demon con-
somma vne Pyramide de par feu, & y suruint vn grand tonnerre
& foudre du Ciel. 8vo, pp. 8. Paris 1620. [R 20 d 33]
[A type-facsimile printed at Arras n.d. as part, according to
the wrapper, of the " Portefeuille de I'Ami des Livres."]
VogI (Carl), Sir Oliver Lodge's " Raymond oder Leben und Tod."
8vo, pp. 59. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 30) : Pfullingen [1921 ? ]
[R 20 e 3 (30)]
Vohu Esfoma. The Voice of the Signs of the Times, being a series of
Addresses on the Visible and Invisible Universes in Relation to
Man with certain Questions and Answers on Light and Darkness.
Foreword by L. B. Nayak and F. B. Sjaencer. 8vo, pp. xvi. 220,
2 ill. Privately published [1927]. [7 h 21]
[Journ. xxiv. 240. A manifesto of the " Esean Community
of India," previously known as the " Faithists."]
[Volk (Wilhelm)], Die Tyroler ekstatischen Jungfrauen. Leitsterne
in die dunkehi Gebiete der Mystik. 8vo, pp. vi. 450 + 392,
2 vols. Regensburg 1843. [22 a 7]
Vorberg (Gaston), Guy de Maupassant's Krankheit. 8vo, pp. iii. 28.
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (ix. 60) : Wiesbaden
1908. .
.
[R20f9(60)]
[With a bibliography.]
Vuille ( ), Translation of Jung-Stilling (J. H.), Theorie du discerne-
ment des Esprits. [17 b 5]
Waite (Arthur Edward), Editor o/ Vaughan (Thomas), The Works.
[22 b 2]
Raymond Lully, Illuminated Doctor, Alchemist and Christian
Mystic. 8vo, pp. 75. The "Mystics and Occultists" Series:
London 1922. [8 g 16]
Saint-Martin, the French Mystic and the Story of Modern
Martinism. 8vo, pp. 78. The " Mystics and Occultists
"
Series : London 1922. [8 g 5]
Waldstein (Louis), Das unterbewusste Ich und sein Verbaltnis zu
Gesundheit und Erziehung. Authorized translation by Gertrud
Veraguth. [Preface by Otto Veraguth.] 8vo, pp. v. 71.
Grenzfragen des Nerven- und Seelenlebens (ix. 62) : Wiesbaden
1908. [R20f9(62)]
Wallin (J. E. Wallace), Psycho-Motor Norms for Practical Diagnosis.
A Study of the Seguin Form Board, Based on the Records of
4072 Normal and Abnormal Boys and Girls, with Yearly and
Half-Yearly Norms. 8vo, pp. v. 102, 3 diagrams and 8 folding
tables. The Psychological Monographs (xxii. 2 : 94): Princeton
and Lancaster, August 1916. [25 a 22 (94)]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 203
Wang (Tsu Lien), The Influence of Tuition in the Acquisition of
Skill. 8vo, pp. V. 51, diagrams. Psychological Monographs
(xxxiv. 1 : 154, Studies from the Psychological Laboratory of
the University of Chicago) : Princeton 1925. [25 a 34 (154)]
Ward (James), Editorial Note to Sidgwick (H.), Lectures on the
Philosophy of Kant. [26 f 13]
Philosophy : its Scope and Relations. [26 f 8]
Washburn (Margaret Floy), The Animal Mind. A Text-Book of
Comparative P.sychology. 8vo, pp. xv. 431, 18 diagrams.
Third edition. New York 1926. [3 a 34]
Watson (John B.), Kinaesthetic and Organic Sensations : their Role
in the Reactions of the White Rat to the Maze. 8vo, jjp. vi.
100, 17 diagrams. The Psychological Review : Monograph
Supplements (viii. 2 : 33) : Lancaster and Baltimore, Mav 1907.
[25 a 8 (33)]
Webb (Louie Winfield), Transfer of Training and Retroaction. A
Comparative Study. 8vo, pp. v. 90, 8 diagrams. Psychological
Monographs (xxiv. 3 : 104, Studies from the Psychological
Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton and
Lancaster 1917. [25 a 24 (104)]
Weber (L.), Die Wiinschelrute. 8vo, pp. 62, 2 diagrams. Kiel mid
Leipzig 1905. [RDo 2 (5)]
[With an inscription by the author.]
Webster (John), The Displaying of supposed Witchcraft. Wherein
is affirmed that there are many sorts of Deceivers and Imposters,
and Divers persons imder a passive Delusion of Melancholy
and Fancy. But that there is a Corporeal League made betwixt
the Devil and the Witch, Or that he sucks on the Witches Body,
has Carnal Copulation, or that Witches are turned into Cats,
Dogs, raise Tempests, or the like, is utterly denied and dis-
proved. Wlierein also is handled, The Existence of Angels and
Spirits, the truth of Apparitions, the Nature of Astral and
Sydereal Spirits, the force of Charms, and Philters ; with other
alastruse matters. 4to, pp. [xiv]. 346. [iv]. London 1677.
[R 22 i 20]
Wedgwood (J. I.), Spiritualism and the Great War. 8vo, pji. 12.
London-n.d. [RTh 5 (3)]
Varieties of Psychism. With a Foreword by Annie Besant.
8vo, pp. xii. 109. Adyar 1914. [5 e 24]
Weinhold (Adolf F.), Hypnotische Versuche. Experimentelle Bei-
trage zur Kenntniss des sogennanten thierischen Magnetismus.
Erganzung und Berichtigung der im III. Theile von Zollner's
wissenschaftlichen Abhandlungen veroffentlichten Mittheil-
ungen des Yerfassens. 8vo, pp. 29. Second impression.
Chemnitz 1879. [RHy 14 (1)]
204 Society for Psychical Research [part
Weiss (A. P.), Apparatus and Experiments on Sound Intensity. 8vo,
pp. iii. 59, 9 diagrams and ill. Psychological jMonograjahs (xxii.
3 : 95): Princeton and Lancaster, October 1916. [25 a 22 (95)]
Wells (Frederic Lyman) and Woodworth (R. S.), Association Tests.
Being a Part of the Report of the Committee of the American
Psychological Association on the Standardizing of Procedure in
Experimental Tests. 8vo, pp. iii. 85, 2 plates (1 in colours).
The Psychological Monographs (xiii. 5 : 57) : Princeton, Balti-
more and Lancaster, December 1911. [25 a 13 (57)]
Wells (George R.), The Influence of Stimulus Duration on Reaction
Time. 8vo, pp. 69, 26 diagrams. The Psychological Mono-
graphs (xv. 5 : 66) : Princeton and Lancaster, November 1913.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 15 (56)]
Wells (Helen), Spiritual America as seen from the Other Side.
Dictated by Invisible Teachers. Clairaudiently received by
Helen Wells. Transcribed by a Class of Eight Students. 8vo,
]ip. 200. Boston 1927. [24d21]
Welton (Thomas), Mental Magic. A Rationale of Thought Reading,
and its attendant Phenomena, and tlieir application to the Dis-
covery of New Medicines, Obscure Diseases, Correct Delineations
of Character, Lost Persons and Property, Mines and Springs of
Water, and all hidden and secret things : To which is added the
History and Mystery of the Magic Mirror [by R. H. Fryer,
editor of the whole]. 4to, pp. 178, 1 ill. London 1884" [or
rather, 1885]. [10 f 2]
[Printed on blue jDaper.]
Wentz (W. Y. Evans-), The Tibetan Book of the Dead, or The After-
Death Experiences on the Bardo Plane, according to Lama Kazi
Dawa-Samdup"s English Rendering. W^ith a Foreword by Sir
John Woodroffe. 8vo,- pp. xliv. 248, 12 jDortraits and ill.
London 1927. [22 e 14]
[Jowm. xxiv. 164.]
Wetzler (Joh. Evang.), Meine wunderbare Heilung von beisjoielloser
Hautschwache imd Geneigtheit zu Erkaltungen durch eine
Somnambule. Nebst einer Anleitung sich durch Waschungen
mit einer Campherseife vor Erkaltungs-Krankheiten zu schutzen
und von Rheumatismus zu heilen ; und einem Anhang welcher
die Aeusserungen derselben Somnambule iiber die Asiatische
Cholera so wie Bemerkungen des Verfassers uber diese Krankheit
enthalt. 12mo, pp. iv. 258, diagram. Atigsburg 1833.
[15c21]
Weyrauch (R.), Der Begriff des Erfolges bei Arbeiten von Wiinschel-
rutengangern. 8vo, pp. 44-46. [6 i 31 (3)]
[Part of Schriften des Verhands zur Kldnmg der Wiinschel-
rufeiifrage (Stuttgart 1912), Heft 3.]
White (William A.) and Jolliffe (S. E.), Translation and edition of
Dubois (P.), The Psychic Treatment of Nervous Disorders. [10 d 8]
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 205
Whyte (Herbert), H. P. Blavatsky : an outline of her life. With a
Preface by C. W. Leadbeater. 8vo, pp. xiii. 39. ii, 5 portraits.
Second edition. Adyar 1920. [8 c 6]
Wickwar (J. W.), Dreams, what they are and what they mean.
Being a new treatment of an old subject. 8vo, pp. 126. Third
edition. London [1920 ?]. [3 d 6]
Witchcraft and the Black Art. A Book dealing with the
Psychology and Folklore of the Witches. 8vo, jap. 320. London
1925. [21 e 23]
Widerlegung der Gedancken von Gespenstern. 8vo, pp. 72. Second
edition. Halle 1754. [R 12 c 14 (2)]
[A reply to Gedancken von Gespenstern.]
Wiedemann (Alfred), The Ancient Egyptian Doctrine of the Immor-
tality of the Soul. 8vo, pp. xi. 71, 22 ill. London 1895.
[22 d 12]
Wiegleb (Johann Christian), Editor of Martins (J. N.), LTnterricht in
der naturlichen Magie. [R 12 a 43]
Wier (Johann), Histoires, Dispvtes et Discovrs des illvsions et
impostvres des diables, des magiciens infames, sorcieres et
empoisonnevrs : des ensorcelez et demoniaqves et de la gverison
d'iceux : item de la pvnition qve meritent les magiciens les
empoissonnevrs et les sorcieres. Le tout compris en six liures.
Devx Dialogves tovchant le povvoir des sorcieres et de la
pvnition qv'elles meritent, par Thomas Erastvs. Avec devx
indices : I'vn des chapitres des six livres de lean Wier, I'autre
des matieres notables contenves en ce volume. 8vo, pp. lix.
624, portrait +vi. 608, 2 vols. Bibliotheque Diabolique : Paris
1885. [R 21 19-10]
Willoughby (Raymond R.) and Hunter (W. S.), Editors of Psycho-
logical Abstracts.
Wilson (J. Dover), Education, in Mind, The. [9 e 19]
Wilson (T. Stacey), Thought Transference. Speculations upon
Psychology and Religion. 8vo, pp. 160. London 1925.
[10 g 6]
Wingfield (K.), ]\Iore Guidance from Beyond. Given through K.
Wingfield. [Preface by A. P. S.] 8vo, pp. xi. 179. London
1925. [24 d 25]
Wittier (Gustav), Editor of Okkultismus, Der. [6 i 30]
Wodan (Paul), Quelques faits inedits metapsychiquement dictes de
I'histoire de Napoleon le Grand. 8vo, pp. 132. Woluwe St
Pierre 1927. [RS 16 (7)]
Wolfram (E.), Die okkulten Ursachen der Krankheiten. (Volumen
Paramirum des Paracelsus.) Svo, pp. viii. 216. Second-third
edition. Leipzig 1921. [17el]]
206 Society for Psychical Research [part
Wood (Ernest), Personal Psvchology and Sub-Conscious Mind. 8vo,
pp. 28. The Blavatsky Lecture, 1924 : London [1924].
[RP 9 (4)]
Woodroffe (Sir John), Foreword to Wentz ( W. Y. Evans-), The Tibetan
Book of the Dead. [22 e 14]
Woodrow (Herbert), The Measurement of Attention. 8vo, pp. iii.
158, 10 diagrams. Tlie Psychological Monographs (xiii. 5 : 76) :
Princeton and Lancaster, December 1914. [25 a 17 (76)]
•
and Lowell (F.), Children's Association Frequency Tables.
8vo, pp. iii. 110. The Psychological Monographs (xxii. 5 : 97) :
Princeton and Lancaster 1916. [25 a 22 (97)]
Woodworth (R. S.) and Wells (F. L.), Association Tests. Being a
Part of the Report of the Committee of the American Psycho-
logical Association on the Standardizing of Procedure in Experi-
mental Tests. 8vo, pp. iii. 85, 2 plates (1 in colours). The
Psychological Monographs (xiii. 5 : 57) : Princeton, Baltimore
and Lancaster, December 1911. [25 a 13 (57)]
Woolley (Helen Thompson) and Fischer (C. R.), Mental and Physical
Measurements of Working Children. 8vo, pp. iv. 247, numerous
diagrams. The Psychological Monographs (xviii. 1 : 77, Studies
from the Laboratory of the Vocation Bureau, Cincinnati, Ohio) :
Princeton and Lancaster, December 1914. [25 a 18 (77)]
Wooster (Margaret), Certain Factors in the Development of a New
Spatial Co-ordination. 8vo, pp. v. 96, 10 diagrams. Psycho-
logical Monographs (xxxii. 4 : 146, Studies from the Psycho-
logical Laboratory of the University of Chicago) : Princeton
1923. [25 a 32 (146)]
Worcester (Elwood), Foreword to Prince (W. F.), The Principles of
Psychic Research.
Wright (Maurice B.), Foreword to Dingwall (E. J.), How to go to a
Medium. [5 b 27]
Wundt (Wilhelm), Siimliche und Ubersinnliche Welt. 8vo, pp. viii.
423. Leipzig 1914. [26 f 34]
Xucla (Salvador Vendrell), Editor of Federacion Espirita Espaiiola,
La Luz del Porvenir. [RT 3 (14)]
Yaokum (Clarence Stone), An Experimental Study of Fatigue. 8vo,
pp. vi. 131, diagram and 2 folding tables. The Psychological
Review : Psychological Monographs (xi. 3 : 46, Studies from
the Psychological Laboratory of the University of Chicago) :
Lancaster and Baltimore, August 1909. [25 all (46)]
Yarborough (Joseph U.), The Influence of the Time Interval Upon
the Rate of Learning in the Wliite Rat. 8vo, pp. v. 52. The
108] Library Catalogue, 1927-1928 207
Psychological Monographs (xxx. 2 : 135, Studies from the
Psychological Laboratory of the University of Chicago) :
Princeton and Lancaster 1921. [25 a 30 (135)]
Young (J. F.) and Robertson (R.), The Divining Rod : its History
—
with full instructions for finding subterranean springs, and other
useful information. Also an Essay entitled : Are the Claims
and Pretensions of the Divining Rod valid and true ? by E.
Vaughan Jenkins. 8vo, pp. 138, plan and 3 portraits. Clifton
1894.
[A few pages missing and others defective.]
Zingaropoli (F.) and Cavalli (V.), Occultismo e Misticismo nel Miracolo
di S. Gennaro. Considerazioni Critiche. Sanguinis mysterium.
8vo. pp. vhi. 199, 6 ill. NapoH 1921. [22 b 4]
Zingerle (Ignaz), Barbara Pachlerin, die Sarnthaler Hexe, und
Mathias Perger, der Lauterfresser. Zwei Hexenprozesse. 8vo,
pp. xii. 84. Innsbruck 1858. [R 20 d 44]
Zottmann ( ) and Hennle ( ), Preface to Rutengangenversuche.
[RT3(3)]
Zurukzoglu (Stavros), Biologische Probleme der Rassehygiene imd
die Kulturvolker. 8vo, pp. viii. 184. Grenzfragen des Nerven-
und Seelenlebens (no. 123) : Miinchen 1925. [R 20 f 19 (123)]
[With a bibliography.]
EVOCATION OF THE DEAD AND KINDRED PHENO-
MENA AMONG THE NATIVES OF MADAGASCAR.^
By THEODORE BESTERMAN.
I.
I WILL not, as did an early pamphleteer, maintain the
natives of Madagascar "to be the happieft people in the
World," nor seek, like him, " to prefer this poor, naked,
and fimple ignorant people, before the rich, gallant, under-
ftanding men of Europe." - Yet, without going so far,
it is easy enough to understand, in studying the Malagasy,
that the fervid paradox of this precursor of Rousseau was
not altogether groundless. For the Malagasy inhabit an
island, the third largest in the world, which, though in
the tropical zone, possesses, by reason of its separation
from the mainland of Africa by the deep Mozambique
Channel and because of its mountainous character, a climate
that is only semi-tropical. This climate, together with the
heavy rainfall, tends to make fever endemic. But this
is largely compensated by one of the most luxuriant
vegetations of the globe. Tropical forests cover the
northern half of the island and line the whole coast ;
wide savannas sweep over the southern plateaux ;
though
cereals are restricted in their distribution, cotton and hemp,
potatoes, rice and sugar-cane, coffee and tobacco, grow
abundantly ; and palms, orchids, acacias and baobabs, the
coco-nut, the orange and the mulberry are characteristic
1 This paper was read at a Private Meeting of the Society on June 6,
1928.
2 " A Paradox : Proving the Inhabitants of the Ifland, called Mada-
gajcar, or St. Laurence (in Things temporal) to be the happiest People
in the World," The Harleian Mijcellany (London 1744), i. 256.
o
210 Theodore Besterman [PABT
of this vegetation. In its fauna Madagascar is equally
happy, possessing none of the larger quadrupeds, and
having a large civet, the cryptoprocta ferox, as practically
its sole representative of the ferocious carnivores ; the
avi-fauna is very rich ; and although crocodiles are un-
fortunately very numerous, the country has no deadly
serpent. All these advantages have joined to make the
natives of Madagascar a kind, friendly, extremely hospit-
able, freedom-loving people. Their culture has unpleasant
aspects no doubt, such as the poison-ordeals (now for-
bidden), the savage punishments meted out by native
justice for seemingly trivial offences, and the repugnant
customs associated with Betsileo burials ; but these
practices cannot be judged apart from their premisses
in native ideology, to which they appear right and
seemly.
Ethnologically, the Malagasy are a very interesting
people. Although they comprise a possibly aboriginal
stock, by far the largest part of the population of three
millions consists of Malayo-Indonesian, Melanesian and
African, with a smaller proportion of Arab and Indian,
descendants. Nevertheless, what is practically only one
language is spoken, and the customs and beliefs in the
several parts of the island present no fundamental varia-
tions.
Althovigh the religion of the Malagasy is comparatively
simple it would take us too far afield to consider it to
any greater extent than is necessary for an understanding
of what follows. They believe in a supreme god, the
" creator of all things," Zanahary, who is incapable of
evil. The natives naturally interpret evil as that which is
contrary to their own welfare, and Zanahary, being thus
unable to harm them, is a somewhat otiose divinity,
neglected and even regarded, by the bolder spirits, with
a little quiet contempt. There are no priests, since there are
no temples, but the sorcerers and diviners have great
power. The method of divination chiefly used is a kind
of geomancy, and this, in conjunction with an elaborate
system of taboo (here called fady) governs the native's
life. They have very elaborate burial customs and beliefs
109] Madagascar—Evocatiofi of the Dead, etc. ' 211
connected with death,^ chief among which is the belief
that they can ,
get into communication with the spirits of
the dead, by whose advice they can, amongst other things,
cure disease and foretell the future.^ It would be no
exaggeration, indeed, to say that the Malagasy look upon
the dead as continuously, though invisibly, present among
1 These customs and beliefs have an important bearing on our subject,
but as space forbids a close consideration of them, I merely append a
list of the more important discussions of tliis subject : Ch. Benevent,
" Conception de la Mort ehez les Malagaches," Revue de Madagascar
(Paris 1901), iii. 631-648 ;
George Bennett, " Funeral Ceremonies at
the Burial of Radama I.," Antananarivo Annual (Antananarivo 1887),
xi. 311-314 (reprinted in J. Sibree, Madagascar before the Conquest [London
1896], pp. 305-312) ;
Besson, " Rites funeraires en usage chez les Betsileos,"
L'Anthrojjologie (Paris 1894), v. 674-682 ; W. E. Cousins, Malagasy
Customs : native accounts of the Circumcision, the Tangena, the Fandroana,
the Marriage and the Burial Ceremonies [in Malagasy] (Antananarivo
1896, 2nd edition) ; id. from a native MS., " Betsileo Burial Customs,"
Antanatiarivo Annual (1900), xxiv. 475-480 ; L. Denivelle, " Les Fime-
railles chez les Tanosy," Bulletin des Missions Lutheriennes a Mada-
gascar (Bar-le-Duc 1902), pp. 183-184; R. P. Finaz, "Les sepultures
dans I'ouest et dans le centre de Madagascar," Les Missions catholiques
(Lyon 1875), pp. 328, 339-340, 350-352 ; Alfred Grandidier, " Des Rites
funeraires chez les Malgaches," Revue d'Ethnographie (Paris 1886), v. 213-
232 (translated by J. Sibree, " Fimeral Ceremonies among the Malagasy,"
Antananarivo Annual [1891], xv. 304-318, who reprinted the translation
in his Madagascar before the Conquest [London 1896], pp. 286-305) ; Guil-
laume Grandidier, " Les Coutvmaes qui disparaissent : les enterrements
a Madagascar," Le Petit Journal miliiaire, maritime et colonial (Paris, 27
March 1904), pp. 248-249 ; Jolm H. Haile, " '
Famadihana,' a Malagasy
Burial Custom," Antananarivo Annual (1892), xvi. 406-410 ; Ed. Hocquard,
" Les Ceremonies fun^bres des Sakalaves," Le Tour du Monde (Paris,
17 April 1897) ; A. Jully, " Funerailles, tombeaux et hormeurs rendus
aux morts a Madagascar," L'Anthropologie (Paris 1894), v. 385-401 ;
Max Leclerc, "Notes sur Madagascar: rites funeraires . . .
," Revue
d'Ethnographie (Paris 1887), pp. 403-472; J. Pearse, "Customs connected
with Death and Burial among the Sihanaka," Antananarivo Annual (1882),
vi. 51-65 ; Pochard, " Les Tombeaux a Betafo," Bulletin des missions
Lutheriennes a Madagascar (Bar-le-Duc 1898), pp. 112-114; J. Richard-
son, " Remarkable Bm-ial Customs among the Betsileo," Ajitayianarivo
Annual (1875), i. 70-75 ; James Sibree, " A Curious Burial Custom in North
Imerina," Antananarivo Annual (1896), xx. 487-498 ; id. from a native
MS., " Remarkable Ceremonial at the Decease and Burial of a Betsileo
Prince," Antananarivo Annual (1898), xxii. 195-208. See also G. Gran-
didier, Bibliographie de Madagascar (Paris 1905-1906), ii. 869-870.
^ The cliief authority for all the foregoing is the monumental Histoire
physique, naturelle et politique de Madagascar, edited by Alfred Gran-
didier in many quarto volumes.
212 Theodore Besterman [PABT
the living. This sentiment is expressed with picturesque
force in one of their proverbial sayings :
" The guinea-
fowl when flying departs not from the wood, nor, when
hiding, from the earth, and the fandro shrub dies on the
ground. All the hairs of the head cannot bind death,
and tears cannot hold him ; therefore give up the dead,
for the earth is the forsaking-place of the beloved ones,
the dwelling of the living, the home when dead."i This
belief must be borne in mind in considering what follows,
for it is chiefly responsible for the intensity of the
Malagasy ancestor-worship. The mere worship of ancestors,
as found in many parts of the world, often plays a com-
paratively unimportant part in the life of the community.
But when this worship is found, as in Madagascar, in
connection (whether causally or not) with a profound
belief in the omnipresence of the ancestors, its influence
on the individual and on the community may readily be
imagined. One has only to suppose what sort of com-
plexion English civilisation would bear if every inhabitant
of the Islands were an ardent spiritualist, convinced that
he could get into communication with the spirits of, say,
his dead parents, by the simple process of visiting a
medium, and if at the same time the religion of the country
were a worship of those same ancestors !
But not only do the Malagasy believe in the as-it-were
spiritual omnipresence of the dead, and not only do they
hold it as an article of faith that they can communicate
with them through appropriately gifted individuals, they
also tell stories of ghostly apparitions visible to the gener-
ality of the people. " In 1906," a missionary, but an
accurate and conscientious observer, tells us, " a whole
region east of Antananarivo was greatly moved, because,
one evening, a man, celebrated in the land, but dead for
some ten years, was seen by the window of a hut of which
he had been the proprietor. The details were given with
precision, the day and time were indicated, and the
witnesses cited. The same writer also records a case in
1 James Sibree, " The Oratory, Songs, Legends, and Folk-Tales of the
Malagasy," The Folk-Lore Journal (London 1883), i. 12.
^ H. Rusillon, Un culte dynastique (Paris 1912), p. 50.
109] Madagascar—Evocation of the Decul, etc. 213
which a young woman, twenty-four hours after her supposed
death, returned to give various messages to her family and
neighbours and to indicate the exact day and time of her
definitive death, which took place as foretold. But this
time our informant sceptically puts the facts down to an
epidemic of chronic paludism then raging, during which
people were buried while in a state of insensibility char-
acteristic of the disease.^
Nor, we are told, are these two incidents isolated, " for
in the evening, around the fire, what extraordinary ghost
stories are to be heard ! And even more would be heard
if the people dared to speak quite freely in the presence
of a missionary. One individual comes to tell you quietly
that he had a visit from a dead person during the night.
A husband talked at length to his wife. She left him
instructions for his conduct . . .
" ^ And so on. The same
missionary quotes a letter, that came into his hands by
chance, from one native to another. It appears that a
man of Ambatolampy, a village in the district of Isoa-
vimbazaha, who died ten years before, being displeased
with the behaviour of his descendants, decided to reveal
himself to them. He began to throw stones at them, nor
could they see whence they came. Then he started
breaking the pots and pans. He tired of this also and
began to whistle. At last his children cried out, " If
you have something good to tell us, say it, but stop
frightening us." This went on for some time, and he con-
tinued by removing the slates and breaking the thread when
weaving was going on. Eventually his voice began to be
heard ; he made his complaints, expounded the ten com-
mandments, and requested that place should be made for
him at table. The food disappeared, but no one saw
him eat, though the sound of his jaws was heard. The
story got round and on the 7th of August 1909, 400 persons,
including the elite of the neighbourhood, such as the
governor, the midwife, teachers and evangelists, assembled
on the spot saying it was all lies. They went into the
house, and, in order to see more clearly, they made a
fire, when suddenly a voice was heard saying, " Even if
'^Ihid., pp. 49-50. ^ Ibid., p. 50.
214 Theodore Besterman . [part
there were great lights, you would not see me, for I am
spirit ..." 1 What a poltergeist ! And what opportunities
for a Madagascar S.P.R. !
II.
1 am not, of course, concerned in this paper with these
beliefs as such, but rather v/ith their manifestations in
action, and with any light such action may throw on a
possibly veridical basis of these beliefs. I do not propose,
therefore, to give any more detailed account of the
Malagasy doctrine of the evocation of the dead, but
proceed to an account of the recurrent as-it-were spiritual-
istic epidemics to which this doctrine has led.
The modern history of Madagascar dates from the reign
of the enlightened and progi'essive Radama I., who ruled from
1810 to 1828. On his death at an early age power was
seized by one of his wives, who became Ranavolana I.,
and during whose reign of thirty-three years active re-
action was encouraged. On the ascent to the throne in
1861 of Radama II. the country had almost relapsed into
complete barbarism, and the new king, although he had
the will, lacked the character to undo the evil done by
his predecessor. Now followed the events to be noted.
My account is based, for the sake of accuracy and impar-
tiality, on the narratives of four ej^e-witnesses of the most
varied points of view : Dr. Andrew Davidson, physician
to the Court of Madagascar ;
^ the Rev. William Ellis,
chiefly known for his Polynesian researches, who had been
sent out by the London Missionary Society to resume the
missionary work interrupted by Ranavolana I. for a
quarter of century ;
^ and Fathers Finaz and Boy, French
missionaries whose contemporary narratives were incor-
^H. Rusillon, Un culte dynastique (Paris 1912), pp. 51-54.
2 Andrew Davidson, " Choreomania : An Historical Sketch with some
Account of an Epidemic in Madagascar," Edinburgh Medical Journal
(Edinburgh 1868), xiii. 124-136 ;
reprinted in part, with notes by J.
Sibree, as " The Ramanenjana or Dancing Mania of Madagascar,"
Antananarivo Annual (Antananarivo 1889), xiii. 19-27.
'Rev. William Ellis, Madagascar Revisited (London 1867), pp. 253 et seq.
109] Madagascar—Evocation of the Dead, etc. 215
porated iiito his books by La Vaissiere.^ The events,
then, were as follows ;
In February 1863, little more than a year after the
accession of Radama II., rumours began to reach the
European inhabitants of Antananarivo, the capital of
Madagascar, of a very regrettable state of affairs at
Ambondrombe, the home of the departed. The queen
Ranavolana I. was very annoyed at the tentative reforms
Radama II. was beghinmg to introduce, and was con-
sidering a personal visit to j)ut a stop to them. Radama I.,
on the contrary, was delighted that his own views were gain-
mg the upper hand again, and did his best to restrain
his angry successor. The queen, however, had secretly
made her arrangements for departure, and in March of
the same year small parties began to arrive at the capital,
some actually carrying various articles, others imagining
themselves to be loaded with the dead queen's baggage.
They were accompanied by musicians, and danced almost
contuiuously. In a few weeks these groups had increased
to hundreds, so that it was impossible to go out without
meeting some of them. " It spread rapidly," writes
Davidson (Zoc. cit., p. 131), "as by a sort of infection,
even to the most remote villages in the central province
or Ivierina, so that, havmg occasion to visit a distant
part of the country in company with an Englishman, we
found even in remote hamlets, and, more wonderful still,
near solitary cottages, the sound of music, indicating that
the mania had sj^read even there."
Those affected were chiefly of the lower class, and
women between the ages of fourteen and twenty-five.
They were called, as was the epidemic itself, ramanenjana,
meaning " that which makes tense (or stifi^)," from one of
the symptoms felt by the persons afflicted. These symp-
C. de la Vaissi^re, Vingt ans a Madagascar (Paris 1885), pp. 228 et seq. ;
id., Histoire de Madagascar (Paris 1884), 392 et seq., 418 et seq. See also
Gershon Ramisiray, Pratiques et croyances medicales des Malgachcs (Paris
1901), pp. 91-96 ; Alfred et Giiillaume Grandidier, Ethnographie de Mada-
gascar {Histoire physique, naturelle et politique de Madagascar, IV.), iii. 490
et seq., 620-622. Most histories of Madagascar have some account of the
ramanenjana, most of them inaccurate, and nearly all derived from one or
other of the above-mentioned sources.
216 Theodore Besterrnan [PAET
toms are most fully described by Davidson {loc. cit.,
pp. 132-133). " The patients usually complained of a
weight or pain in the praecordia [the region about the
heart], and great uneasiness, sometimes a stiffness about
the nape of the neck. Others, in addition, had pains in
the back and limbs, and in most cases there seems to
have been an excited state of the circulation, and occasion-
ally even mild febrile symptoms. One or more of these
premonitory symptoms were frequently observed : there
were numerous cases where they were absent. After
comjjlaining, it may be one, two, or three days, they
became restless and nervous, and if excited in any way,
more especially if they haj^pened to hear the sound of
music or singing, they got perfectly uncontrollable, and,
bursting away from all restraint, escaped from their
pursuers, and joined the music, when they danced some-
times for hours on end with amazing rapidity. They
moved the head from side to side with a monotonous
motion, and the hands, in the same way, alternately up
and down. The dancers never joined in the singing, but
uttered frequently a deep sighing sound. The eyes were
wild and the whole countenance assumed an indescribable,
abstracted expression, as if their attention was completely
taken off what was going on around them. The dancing
was regulated very much by the music, which was always
the quickest possible—it never seemed to be quick enough.
It often became more of a leaping than a dancing. They
thus danced to the astonishment of all, as if possessed by
some evil spirit, and, with almost superhuman endurance,
exhausting the patience of the musicians, who often
relieved each other by turns, then [that is, the dancers]
fell down suddenly, as if dead ;
or, as often happened, if
the music was interrupted, they would suddenly rush off
as if seized by some new impulse, and continue running
until they fell down almost, or entirely, insensible. After
being completely exhausted in this way, the patients were
taken home, the morbid impulse apparently in many
cases destroyed. Sometimes the disease, thus stopped,
never recurred ; but more frequently there was a return.
The sight of dancers, or the sound of music, even in the
109] Madagascar—Evocation of the Dead, etc. 217
distance, or anything which, by association, seemed con-
nected with the disease, determined a recurrence of the fit.
" The patients were fond of carrying about with them sugar-
canes. They held them in their hands, or carried them
over the shoulder while they danced. Frequently, too,
they might be seen going through their singular evolu-
tions with a bottle of water upon their heads, which they
succeeded wonderfully in balancing. The drum was the
favourite instrument, but others were used, and all were
acceptable. When there were no musical instruments to
be had, the attendants beat time with their hands, or sung
a tune which was a favourite amongst the Ramanenjana."
It is clear that these dancers were simply mediums of the
shamanistic tj^e, and it is indeed recorded, even by our
authorities, the medical man and the missionaries of a
not very enlightened type, that they professed to be in
communication with the dead, and particularly, of course,
with Ranavolana I. The dancers also seemed to lose, to
a large extent, consciousness of their bodies, or felt,
according to their own expression, as if a dead body
were tied to them.
This epidemic concluded in an insurrection and the murder
of Radama II. It broke out again in the following year,
but Rasoherina, Radama II. 's widow, who succeeded him,
fearing that it might again lead to political complications,
put the epidemic down with a strong hand. But there
are records of its recurrence in, for instance, 1873,^ 1895,^
1906 or 1907,3 and 1910,* and no doubt other outbreaks
occurred before and since, and, in one or other of its forms,
the ramanenjana is continuously in manifestation.''
For in addition to the manifestations of these spirituaHstic
1 E.g., Raoul Allier, La Psychologie de la conversion chez les penples non-
civilises (Paris 1925), i. 364.
2 W. J. Edmonds, "Charms and Snperstitions in Soiith-East Imerina,"
Antananarivo Annual (Antananarivo 1897), xxii. G2-63.
' Eug. Parisot, " Le Reveil an Valalafotsy," Journal des Missions evan-
geliques (Paris, June 1907), pp. 427 et seq.
^E. Pecliin, " Le '
Bilo,' " Journal des missions evangiliques (Paris, Feb-
ruary 1910), pp. 177 et seq.
^ We may safely assume for oui present purpose that the ramanenjana,
the hilo, (for which see E. Pechin, loc. cit.), the salamanga (for which see, e.g..
218 Theodore Besterman [part
phenomena as widespread epidemics, they also appear, on
a much smaller scale, locally. And it is of these local
phenomena that we have the most detailed information,
in two papers by Parisot {loc. cit.) and Pechin {loc. cit.)
and particularly in an important book by M. Henry
Rusillon, an experienced and enlightened missionary.^
III.
We must now proceed to a more detailed considera-
tion of the ceremony of evocation of the dead in one of
these local manifestations. After preliminary ceremonies
for the purpose of purifying the sorcerer and for finding a
suitable subject, the proceedings began with the burning
of incense, the playing of music, and much dancing
round the person chosen as the vessel into which the
ancestor is asked to enter. The choice is usually made,
it appears, of a person who is ill, and who thus hopes to
be cured. Indeed, the title given to the man who pre-
sides over the ceremony (fiketrahana) should, we are told,
be strictly translated as " healer " rather than " sorcerer,"
as is customary.^
Often the subject, whom for clarity I will call the
medium, at once goes into trance, or into some kindred
abnormal state of consciousness. Sometimes, however, it is
necessary to use a circular mirror, apparently bearing white
lines, on which the medium is requested to fix his eyes.^
James Sibree, The Great African Island [London 1880], pp. 295-296),
and the tromba (for wliich see below), are different phases of the same
phenomenon. M. AlHer, indeed, gives as tlie full name of tliis mani-
festation a phrase which includes two of the above terms, {loc. cit.,
i. 363). On the other hand, M. G. Mondain (quoted by R. Allier,
Introduction to H. Russillon, Un culte dynastique [Paris 1912], p.
17n.) states that some Malagasy use the several words in different
senses. The information at our disposal is insufficient to permit scien-
tific discrimination between them, and even the distinction made in
the text is purelj'' tentative and open to correction.
^ Henry Russillon, Un mite dynastique avec evocation des morts chez
les Salcalaves de Madagascar : Le " Tromba " (Paris 1912). This book
has a valuable introduction by M. Raoul Allier.
^ Ibid., p. 119. ^ Ibid., pp. 91, 96; E. Pechin, op. cit., p. 178.
109] Madagascar—Evocation of the Dead, etc. 219
Being thus seemingly hypnotised, the medium begins
to shout, and henceforth he is treated in accordance
with his new personahty. In other words, he is now
supposed to be possessed by an ancestor. (It may be
noted, parenthetically, that at the same moment, one,
two, three, sometimes many, of those present are taken
possession of. The ancestors, say the natives, follow the
examjDle of one of their number.) The name of the
possessing ancestor is as yet unknown, and the assembly
disperses, discussing his identity and the hoped-for mani-
festations at the next stage of the whole ceremony, for
now the second stage has ended, the purifications and the
like having formed the first stage.
The opening of the third stage (or seance, as our
authority calls it) is similar, except that now the medium
goes more readily into trance. What characterises this
stage is that now the spirit begms to speak. But let it
not be supposed that the ancestor comes easily. No, it
is just as with a European medium, where the sitter is
favoured with the conversation of a " control," who
conveys the messages of the communicating spirit, the
latter making his own voice audible only as a very
special j)rivilege. So in Madagascar, the voice first heard
is that of a servant, full of protests :
" What do you
want?" "The master is engaged," "You are disturbing
him without cause," and so on. But those present, I
mean in the body, can also j)rotest, and they protest
violently : it is the ancestor himself they want. The
servant is cursed, and sent about his business to fetch
his master. In due course the latter comes, and names
himself. At once, the audience adjusts its behaviour. If
the jiossessing spirit is that of an ancestor known to have
been opposed to Christianity, nothing is to be heard but
imprecations against all Christians. If the temporarily
reincarnated ancestor is Radama II. they become ardent
devotees of all things European ;
they love the whites ;
they even speak French :
" Koman 9a va ? gava bian !
"
Although their French, in the example given, seems some-
what elementary, M. Rusillon states categorically that on
these occasions genuine speaking with tongues or glossolalia
220 Theodore Besterman [PAET
takes place.1 His explanation (pp. 138-140), if I under-
stand it, is that the words thus spoken of an unknown
language or dialect are the automatic reproductions of
sounds recorded in the subconsciousness while the subject
was in the presence of persons speaking that language.
^
This seems to be the true normal interpretation, but
M. Rusillon certainly gives the impression that the things
said, by the medium, at any rate, go beyond the resources
of a vocabulary acquired in so haphazard a manner.
Under the circumstances I can do no more than state the
hypothesis and the difficulty.
But it is not enough for the spirit to name himself
:
his relations must recognise him. It is greatly to be
regretted that we are not told how the spirit compels
this recognition, but merely that the spirit's self-identifica-
tion is questioned and must be agreed to before the affair
can lorogress. At last order is restored, and the assembly
gets to work. For the spirit is also a healer, he indicates
remedies, he performs cures, and, says our authority
(pp. 171 et seq.), perfectly genuine cures, chiefly of the
fevers which we have seen to be endemic. The spirit is
bombarded with questions, for nothing is unknown to him.
He indicates what taboos are to be observed, what voyages
should be undertaken, how to become rich, and so on.
This concludes the third part of the ceremony, and the
medium comes to. He knows nothing of what has fallen
from his own lips ;
indeed, he takes beforehand the pre-
caution of entrusting to a friend the task of remembering,
and of relating to him, what has taken place.
The fourth and last part of the proceedings consists
chiefly of various sacrificial performances, into which I
need not enter, designed to complete the cure of the
medium himself. I say " chiefly," for at the very end the
cured medium goes into a voluntary, presumably a self-
1 H. Rusillon, Un cidte dynastique, pp. 93, 127, 138. At p. 127, for
instance, he writes, "Quant au Trombu [ = spirit], il parle la langue
de son pays d'origine, sans s'inquieter de son '
siege.'
"
^ The most recent writer on this subject (George Barton Cutten, Speak-
ing with Tongues [Newhaven 1927], pp. 178 et seq.) comes to the same con-
clusion, though he does not refer to the savage cases.
109] Madagascar—Evocation of the Dead, etc. 221
induced, trance and the spirit demands his rewards. In
response the medium is loaded with gifts, and amid
hbations, cries and games, the proceedings come to an
end with general intoxication, one feature, at least, that is
not reproduced in a European spiritualistic sitting.
Such is the great Malagasy ceremony of the evocation of
the dead, and it only remains to add that fraud, although it
has not been actually detected, is possible. A young
Hova, converted to Christianity, determined to investigate
this point. He went to such a ceremony as I have
described and pretended to go into trance and to become
possessed by a spirit. He went through the performance
usual in such cases, of answering questions " out of his
head," to the complete satisfaction of the questioners.^
This gulMbility compels us to maintain a sceptical attitude
towards the alleged veridical nature of these phenomena.
But one cannot help feeling that the immensely long and
troublesome preliminaries a medium has to go through
before being recognised as a channel through which sup-
posed spirits of the ancestors are willing to manifest, put
deliberate fraud out of court as a general explanation of
the phenomena of mediumship among the easy-going
Malagasy.
^ H. Rusillon, op. cit., pp. 159-162.
222 Appendix [PAET
APPENDIX
List of Pkevious Accounts in the Society's Proceedings and
Journal of Alleged Supernormal Phenomena among
Uncivilised Peoples.
General.—Andrew Lang, " The Fire Walk," Proceedings
(1900-1901), XV. 2-15.
Australia.—K. Langton [sic, read Langloh] Parker, " An
Australian Witch," Journal (May 1899), ix. 69-71.
Tahiti.—S. P. Langley, "The Fire Walk Ceremony in Tahiti,"
Journal (October 1901), x. 116-121; Andrew Lang, "Mr.
Langley on the Fire-Walk," Journal (November 1901), x.
132-134.
Malay Archipelago.—Walter Skeat, " Malay Spiritualism,"
Proceedings (1901-1903), xvii. 290-304.
Assam.—C. P. Mills, "The Were-Tigers of the Assam Hills,"
Journal (November 1922), xx. 381-388.
India.—W. Henry Henderson, " Indian Conjuring and Hyp-
notism," Journal (January 1892), v. 195-196 ; Richard
Hodgson, " Indian Magic and the Testimony of Con-
jiu-ers," Proceedings (1893-1894), ix. 354-366 ;
Henry K.
Beauchamp and others, " Fire-Walking Ceremonies in
India," Journal (November 1900), x. 312-321 ; J. A. Shar-
rock, " Fire Ceremonies in Southern India," Journal (Nov-
ember 1902), X. 297-298 ; Sebastian Thomas Bm-chett and
others, " An Account of the Indian Rope-Climbing Trick,"
Journal (November 1904), xi. 299-308 ;
" An Account of
the Indian Rope-climbing Trick," Journal (February 1905),
xii. 30-31 ;
" The Indian Rope-Trick," Journal (November-
December 1919), xix. 124-127.
Mauritius.—^Mary J. S. Schwabe, " Fire-Walking in Mauritius,"
Journal (December 1901), x. 154-155 ;
[John Piddington],
" The Fire-Walk in Mauritius," Joxmial (June 1902), x. 250-
253 ; M. S. Schwabe, " The Fire-Walk in Mauritius," Journal
(November 1902), x. 296-297.
West Africa.—Mary M. Kingsley, " The Forms of Appari-
tions in West Africa," Proceedings (1898-1899), xiv. 331-
342 ; J. Shepley Part, " A Few Notes on Occultism in
West Africa," Proceedings (1898-1899), xiv. 343-347.
South Africa.—Theodore Besterman, " Savage Telepathy,"
Journal (January 1926), xxiii. 2-4.
West Indies.—P. Barrow Matthews, " An Account of an Out-
break of Religious Hallucination in the Bahamas, West Indies,
with a brief sketch of some phenomena connected there-
with," Journal (December 1886), ii. 485-487.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 223
EVIDENCE FOR CLAIRVOYANCE IN CARD-GUESSING.
A Report on Some Recent Experiments.^
By Miss INA JEPHSON
Before I begin my report I should like to express my
thanks and my very real gratitude to all those who by their
generous gifts of both time and work have made possible
an experiment which I venture to think is of considerable
suggestive value. First I must name those Members
of Coimcil who supported the experiment throughout,
especially Dr. Woolley, who was chief adviser, aider and
abetter. Next I must mention Miss Newton, for it was
the facts observed during the long series of experiments
in telepathy carried on by her which led me to undertake
the present experiments in clairvoyance. Then especial
thanks are due to Dr. R. A. Fisher for devising the
scoring system which was used throughout this experiment
and which made it possible to arrange such a large
number of different elements on a businessKke basis,
and also for having many times flung me a hfe-hne
when I was nearly submerged by the problems which
taxed my hmited arithmetic.
Next come a group of names, Miss Wallace, Mr. O'Dell,
Mr. Summerson, and Mr. Soal, who collected, scored and
analysed a very large number of results at a time when
I had, with what seemed Uke supreme cunning, fallen
ill the moment that the work was beginning in earnest.
Mr. Dingwall very kindly agreed to witness on seven-
teen different occasions some of my own efforts at card-
guessing. I felt it was most important to have some
witnessed experiments, and was glad to get an expert
^ This paper was read at a Private Meeting of the Society on June
27th, 1928.
224 Ina Jephson [PABT
witness who could detect at once any incipient leanings
towards fraud on my part.
Miss Phillimore and the editor of Light most kindly
helped by publishing several appeals in the columns of
Light which produced a considerable number of interesting
replies. I have also had help from Germany for which I
am most grateful, Herr Studienrat Lambert in particular
sending me a number of results ; Dr. Tischner, Dr. Luther,
Dr. Tartaruga also contributing and taking a most en-
couraging interest in the experiment. To Herr Leonhard
I am indebted for scoring and analysing by Dr. Fisher's
system 6000 pairs of cards, a labour which was essential
to the value of the experiment, as it was of the first
importance to have chance data with which the results
of guessing could be comj^ared. In America Dr. Walter
Prince collected some results (printed below, p. 258),
and subsequently sent me some of his own trials at
card-guessing which have been of great interest in corro-
borating my own inferences and conclusions from this
experiment.
Finally I must thank the 300 experimenters themselves
who tried their luck at card-guessing and recorded their
results. This 300 includes members of the Society, my
own friends and victims outside the Society, a selection
of those who joined with some success in Dr. Woolley's
broadcast telej)athy experiment, and a number of the
readers of Light. I think that the fact of the guessers
having belonged to so many diiferent locaHties and circles
adds considerably to its interest and to the value of the
data, and I hope that those who co-operated will feel
rewarded to some extent by the interesting nature of
the results.
I should like to have called this experiment an experi-
ment in card-divining, only unfortunately card-divining
suggests usually that the diviner will prophesy a journey
across water or urge you to beware of the jealousy of a
dark woman. I regret that these experiments will throw
no very direct light on such hopes and problems. They
were designed in the hope of throwing light on the
working of the faculty of clairvo3^ance, scrying, dowsing or
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 225
metagnomy—whichever word be preferred—with playing
cards as the objects of perception.
This card-guessing or card-divining has often of course
been tried before, as the history of psychic research
shows, and considerable if isolated successes have been
obtained, but isolated successes, however impressive, do
not get the attention they deserve, being classified, quite
naturally, as mere coincidences.
The following experiment therefore is an attempt to
show that these sporadic successes may not always and
only be due to comcidence, but that they may also be
due to another factor commonly called " clairvoyance "
;
and we shall have evidence for this suggestion if the
experiment demonstrates that the successes are continued
to a remarkable degree during a very large number of
trials. The net of coincidence may rightly include an
almost infinite number of successes, but there comes
a moment when, to common sense, that net is stretched
to breaking point, and a fresh hypothesis must be sought
to account for this persistent characteristic of success.
These records which I shall show do confirm in my view
the possibihty of this direct divination of objective facts
without the use of our normal senses. They also confirm
the natural expectation, which I have already expressed,
that firstly, if such a, faculty exists at all it would be
widespread, and that we can experiment with it as we
can with our other senses ; and secondly, that it is bound
at least by some of the known and recognised psycho-
logical habits and laws.
I have been much interested in the course of the experi-
ment by the response given to this proposition, " Do
you think it is possible (trickery apart) to knov/ what a
playing card is without looking at it ?
" The answer
divides people into two distinct classes : one group is
quite wiilmg to try, open-minded as to the possibility of
success ; the other group, more sceptical by nature, or
forced by a scientific training into a wary watchfulness,
does not even think experiment worth a trial. This
second point of view was brought home to me very
forcibly on one occasion.
p
226 Ina Jephson [part
I had been trying card-divining myself for some months,
and had been greatly struck, almost alarmed, by the
results. They seemed so very much better than chance
should give. I met a doctor of my acquaintance who
practised hypnotism and suggestion and who therefore,
I hoped, might be open-minded as to the possibility of
such a thing as clairvoyance. I admit I made my
statement with a httle nervousness as I had not then
the corroborative evidence I have now. On my telhng
him that I imagined I knew what a playing card was
without looking at it, he gave me a piercing diagnostic
glance and said " that was very interesting ; —had I any
friends in the country who would be wilhng to have
me for a good long rest ?
" But on second thoughts he
either did not think this hkely, or perhaps not quite
fair on my friends, for he added, he knew a quiet httle
place in Cornwall where he sometimes sent his patients.
Would I like the address ? He would be only too
pleased to give it me. I think his point of view—the
view I mean that siich a thing as divining a plajdng
card is an impossibihty—is the most " reasonable." His
attitude stimulated me to try to give that reasonable
view a shake. I felt that as it was the reasonable
view it might be altered if the facts for the defence
could be presented clearly and reasonably, and that it
must be possible so to present these facts that they would
compel critical attention, and—more important still
—
that it would be possible to put the problem on to an
experimental basis, so that the critics themselves might
find they got similar results had they the energy to try
the experiment and the opportimity to follow its method.
I think it will help my readers to see how persuasive
the experiment has been to myself if I tell them the
history of its development.
This research grew out of the many experiments in
telepathy carried out over a long period of time under
Miss Newton's guidance. These experiments have been
reported on in the Journal.^ They were undertaken, not
1 A Report on ExiDeriments in Thought Transference, June 1927,
vol. xxiv.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 227
so much to get evidence of telepathy as to try to find
the conditions in which it might best appear and work.
I am afraid I must go over old ground for a while, but
the point I wish to make is an important one and the
explanation of our experiments may be a help to those to
whom the subject is new.
Many of these experiments were as follows : one person
called the agent looks at a diagram, or picture
postcard, in the hope of transmitting its image to another
person called the percipient who with closed eyes and
mind as empty as possible records such impressions as
may come to him.
We had enough, if fragmentary, success to impress me
greatly. We used to make notes of the frame of mind
of the agent, and record his or her intensity of con-
centration or interest. But as time went on I became
more and more puzzled as to why we should always
assume that the impression came from the agent's mind
and not from the picture or card itself. Several small
incidents seemed to point to this last conclusion. On one
or two occasions I felt, when I was the receiver or per-
cipient, that the impression of the chosen object came to me
before the agent had looked at it, or else, as on one occasion
when picture postcards were the objects chosen, that my
impression talhed with a neighbouring card unseen by
the agent, instead of the one at which the agent had
been gazing. It was borne in on me with more and
more force that it was quite an unfounded assumption
that the agent was necessary at all. I think we are
much too apt to put down to telepathy occurrences which
are due to clanvoyance alone. I use the term telepathy
in its ordinary sense, meaning the transmission of thought
from one mind to another without the help of the normal
senses, and clairvoyance in its ordinary sense, meaning the
divination by one mind alone of some fact or facts with-
out the aid of the normal senses. This problem of tele-
pathy versus clairvoyance has always seemed to me the
central problem of psychic research, and these experi-
ments were devised very largely in the hope of emphasis-
ing how unnecessary is this hypothesis of " telepathy,"
228 Ina Jejyhson [part
and of throv/ing some light on the problem as a
whole.
We had, of course, tried experiments sometimes with
playing cards, the agent looking at the card and attempt-
ing to transmit its image mentally to the percipient.
I append the record of our first experiment, in June 1924,
when we achieved ten colour successes running, and five
suit successes in all. Though these results are not above
chance, they are worth noting, especially as similar colour
and suit successes were obtained in later experiments.
I give the series so that it may be compared to the
successes in clairvoyance. I assume for my present argu-
ment that though another person was looking at the
cards, we may count these also as clairvoyant experiments.
Miss Newton, Agent.
10 Spades -
1 Hearts -
King of Hearts
4 Spades -
2 Diamonds
9 Spades -
3 Spades -
3 Diamonds
Queen of Spades
9 Hearts -
5 Diamonds
8 Clubs -
Miss Jephson, Percipient.
5 Clubs.
Red court card. Jack Hearts.
5 Diamonds.
9 Spades
3 Hearts.
Small black Club.
Low spade, 2 or 3 (3 chosen).
8 Diamonds.
High Spade.
High Club.
10 Hearts.
Low Heart, 4.
Colour
Rig, t.
Suit
Right.
By degrees my belief that the results were due to
clairvoyance rather than telepathy grew so strong that
finally in March 1924 I tried to divine what a playing
card was, alone and unaided.
I think I must explain here that I do not lay claim to
any special clairvoya,nt powers. My few spontaneous
experiences of that nature have been of a very average
type, and in experiment my successes have been
mediocre. So from the first I hoped and expected that
any successes I might obtain would be achieved equally
and better by many other people, and this estimate is
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Gard-Otiessing 229
I think borne out by the subsequent ex^jeriments ; 33
people out of the 240 recorded getting scores of about
the same value and the same type of result as myself,
and 13 being very definitely better.
But to return to •
the history of the experiment. I
got out a pack of cards one night, in March 1924,
and just before I was going to sleep tried my luck,
drawing a card from the pack and trying to guess or
divine what it was. This was the result :
Guess}- Card}
6 Hearts 4 Hearts.
5 Clubs 5 Clubs.
7 Spades 8 Spades.
9 Spades 3 Diamonds.
A Heart The Joker.
This is not perhaps very impressive, but still, one right
out of five is not too bad, and 7 of Spades for 8 is only
one pip out. I was filled with hope and excitement and
determined to try again. The next night on which I
tried I again got one right out of five, and one nearly
right. The thu-d evening still gave me some hope, as in
all I got 10 colour right out of 15, 8 suit right out of
15, and 2 cards quite right.
Mabch nth. Maech 13th. Makch 16th.
Guess. Card. Guess. Card. Guess. Card.
6H 4H H 8H C 8C
5C 5C 7C 7C 7D 7H
7S 8S 8S 8C 8H IH
9S 3D 9D 5D 9C 8S
H Joker 8S 9H 7S 5D
I acknowledge that chance might easily achieve this, but
it resembles our telepathy experiments very closely in its
excess of colour and suit successes, and having experience
of the partial and fragmentary nature of clairvoyant
vision I did not expect many complete successes. But
far more important than the amount of success is a
1 Those terms are used throughout to indicate («) the percipient's
impression, (b) the card actually drawn.
230 Ina Jephson [part
characteristic which shows ixp when you examine the
series carefully, and that characteristic seems to me
the most valuable ; I mean the highly suggestive fact
that there is much more success at the beginning of each
trial than at the end, that on each night my second guess
or divination was the best and the last the worst.
Diagram 1 (x) will make this clear ; the better the guess
the higher it appears on each diagram. The method of
scoring, and curves y and z are explained later.
The significance of this I feel cannot be over-estimated,
for if this characteristic of early-success continued
and was observable in the efforts of other people
also, it would be highly suggestive of some element
other than chance at work. It would suggest in fact a
faculty which was liable to fatigue or confusion, or to
some deterrent element. A second and most valuable
service rendered by the detection of this early-guess
success is that it may be counted additional evidence of
the honesty of the experimenters should they, unknown
to themselves, produce the same result. It also makes
it possible for the investigator conducting the experiment
to allow the maximum of freedom to his diviners, a con-
dition which is essential to the working of the faculty and
therefore to the success of the experiment. It seems a most
fortunate chance that this early-guess success should have
shown up so clearly at the very beginning of the experiment.
I continued guessing at odd moments and keeping a
careful record for over a year, getting persistently the
same effect of early successes (a diagram later (2) will
show the record of all the experiments I did of this
consecutive five guess type).
As time went on I became less and less successful,
finally getting results only equal to chance. This did not
altogether depress me as I hoped it might be further
evidence of the presence of a fatiguable faculty. At the
end of some months, in April 1924, I asked Mr. Dingwall
to witness a series of trials for me, as I was most anxious
to see if the faculty worked when under observation.
We continued at intervals till July 1924, and both Mr.
Dingwall and I myself were so much disappointed at the
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 231
extreme lowiiess of my score that we considered my
efforts no better than what chance might have given, and
X REPRESENTS 15 GUESSES ALONE. Y REPRESENTS 15 GUESSES WITNESSED.
Z REPRESENTS ALL MY WITNESSED GUESSES
DIAGRAM 1.
it was only the other day when I rekictantly made out a
diagram for these guesses, so that I might add it to this
232 Inu Jephson [part
report, that I discovered that in spite of the extreme
lowness of score the second-guess-best effect still continued.
During this time also I had been collecting a few ex-
periments by other people, observing with interest their
results. My first victim I think, and the first person
I asked, was Mr. Saltmarsh, a member of the Society,
who guessed five series of five consecutive guesses. I
asked him rather hopefully as he had had success as
a water-diviner, and if he can divine water, why not
cards, I thought optimistically. When he returned his
results, to my great delight he had started off well
and deteriorated most pleasingly as he continued. I
find also that about this time I did a few trials in
clairvoyance with Miss NeAvton, towards the end of her
series of telepathic experiments. I give the following
table ; it is not very striking as regards score, but
shows the characteristic early-guess success and is useful
as being an example of witnessed experiments :
Miss Jephson. Miss Jephson. Miss Newton.
Ouess. Card. Score} Guess. Card. Score. Guess . Card. Score.
6C IOC 2112 2G 2H 29-68 4S IOC 13-09
7S 6S 2M2 6S 7C 13-09 7H 6S 5-07
5D 2D 21-12 lOD 2D 21-12 IS 2D 5-07
7H ICS 5-07 4H 6S 5-07 3C lOS 13-09
KG IDS 5-07 5S IOC 13-09 2H lOS 5-07
Then I collected some results from several of the group
who had been successful during Miss Newton's telepathic
exjjeriments. Miss Boucher-James, Miss Tipping, Miss
Swainson, Miss Taylor and others, and they too encouraged
my hopes and earned my gratitude by getting their good
results early and their poorer ones later.
My expectations by now being so hopefully confirmed,
the next step obviously was to get a good scoring system
by which results could be compared with chance. The
problem was put by Dr. Woolley to Dr. R. A. Fisher of
the Rothamsted Experimental Station, and he devised
the system which was adopted and used throughout this
research. His full description of it is in Proc. S.P.R.
^ The score is explained later.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 233
vol. xxxiv. p. 181, July 1924. I can only give a brief
outline here and will quote from liis opening paragraph :
The problem of scoring a series of events so as to
measure appropriately the degree of success attained in
each trial seems to lie on the borderhne between the
purely deductive region of mathematical probability and
the region of arbitrary choice. . . .
If two pliiying cards are obtained from different packs,
the maximum degree of success is clearly obtained if they
are corresponding cards of the same suit [say 4 Heart with
4 Hearts], but, short of this we shall have obtained some
degree of resemblance if the cards are either corresponding
cards of different suits [4 Hearts and 4 Diamonds], or even
if they are of the same colour. There are in fact nine
possibilities or degrees of success to each of which we can
assign an appropriate score.
Having settled these scoring values, Dr. Fisher then gives
a figure for the mean average score, and a standard
deviation from that score.
In this card-guessing experiment what we need to
know is when our scores become sufficiently good to be
reasonably considered above what we might expect from
chance, so that we may fairly deduce that some factor
other than chance is at work. So after we know the
mean deviation and mean average score we are given
further calculations by which we can know when our
scores are exceeding chance, or what we might expect from
chance. The following table will show the nine different
classes of likeness which one card may have with another.
Card. Guess. Score.
NS Value and suit - 4 Hearts 4 Hearts - 45-73
NC Value and colour 4 Hearts 4 Diamonds 37-71
ON Value only - 4 Hearts 4 Spades or 4 Clubs 29-68
8R Suit and rank - 4 Hearts 1-10 Hearts 21-12
OS Suit only - 4 Hearts Court card Heart 16-04
OR Colour and rank 4 Hearts 1-10 Diamonds 13-09
00 Colour only 4 Hearts Court card Diamond 8-02
OR Rank only - 4 Hearts 1-10 Spades or Clubs 5-07
00 Nothing right 4 Hearts Black court card •00
234 Ina JepTison [part
Chance should give for an infinite number of trials an
average score of 11-18. The average score for a number
of guesses would be expected to deviate from 11-18 by
that is for 25 guesses, the number done by each person
in this research, to deviate from 9-18 to 13-18.
In the series of guesses shown in this experiment a
set of 25 guesses should give an average chance score
of 279-50. The score may be said to be over chance or
beyond what we might expect chance to give when it
is 329-50.
If the reader will refer to Diagram 1, he will see an
illustration of the scoring system in use
O-uess. Card. Score. Guess. Card. Score. Guess. Card. Score.
6H 4H 21-12 H 8H 16-04 C 8C 16-04
5C 5C 45-73 7C 7G 45-73 7D 7H 37-71
7S 8S 21-12 8S 8C 37-71 8H IH 21-12
9S 3D 5-07 9D 5D 21-12 9C 8S 13-09
H Joker •00 8S 9H 5-07 7S 5D 5-07
It will be simpler if I call the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th
guesses in each little sei'ies of five consecutive guesses
the A, B, G, D, E guesses, and in future I shall always
allude to the first guesses as the A guesses, the second
as the B guesses, and so on.
I will ask the reader to turn to Diagram 1, curve x,
(p. 231). This diagram illustrates the score in use with
my first three sets of consecutive guesses. The actual
score of each guess appears on each point of the curve.
I have called the first guess the A guess, and so on, as ex-
plained. Curve y shows the actual score of my first
three sets of consecutive guesses witnessed by Mr. Ding-
wall at the beginning of each day's sittings. Curve z
shows the average score for 27 A guesses, 27 B guesses
and so on. The score is admittedly low. At one point
it is even below expected standard deviation, but on the
other hand there is a very definite continuation of my
habit of getting B guesses the best.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 235
Diagram 1, Curve z. Average score for A guesses, 7-29
„ „ S „ 12-45
,, ,, C ,, 7-38
„ „ D „ 9-52
„ ,, ,, E ,, 8-37
That this habit is a fairly well established one, is also
made clear by Diagram 2, where I have compared all
my five consecutive guesses which I did alone from March
to October to a similar number done with Mr. Dingwall
over a year later. (See p. 236.)
Diagram 2, curve y represents an average of myscore for
each A, B, C, D, E guess whilst I was guessing alone
from March to October 1924. Curve z represents an
average of my score for the same number of guesses with
Mr. Dingwall between April and July 1926. The first
point as before has all the A guesses, the second all the
B guesses and so on.
Witnessed by
Alone. Mr. Dingwall
19 A - - 1704 6-20
19 B - - 20-34 14-17
19 C - - 13-83 7-42
19 D - - 12-21 10-09
19 E - - 9-41 7-53
I also found that my first set of five guesses in April with
Mr. Dingwall scored 55-32, my last set of five in July
scored 47-30, showing the deterioration not only in the
short series of five consecutive guesses, but of general
deterioration over the whole period. This characteristic
is shown very clearly later in other people's results, and
I had noticed it in a marked degree in my own trials alone.
Having been provided with a good scoring system it
was necessary to make out some simple directions for
others trjdng the experiment. Below are the directions
sent to all those who took part.
Directions.
1. Take a pack of 52 playing cards.
2. Draw one card face downwards from the pack and try
and guess what the card is.
236 Ina Jephson [PAET
3. Record your guess under "guess card" on the scoring
sheet provided. The space under " score " is for
official use only.
Y REPRESENTS TOTAL OF MY GUESSES ALONE
Z REPRESENTS SAME HUMBER Or WiTOESSEO GUESSES
DIAGRAM 2.
4. Turn up the playing card and write down under " actual
card " what the card actually is.
5. Return the card to the i^ack and shuffle. (The scoring
calculations are based on a full 52 card pack.)
6. Then take out another card, record it as before, etc.,
and do this five times in succession at one sitting.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 237
Before guessing another set of five leave an interval
of at least some hours, preferably a day, before
guessing again.
7. Do not let another person see the card you have taken
from the pack. The possibility of telepathy must be
excluded.
8. If possible please do 25 guesses (five sets of five).
All records, however unsuccessful, are useful, a.nd all
degrees of success are allowed for in the scoring.
This guessing in five short series of five more or less
arranged itself. It seemed long enough to show up the
fatigue factor and not so long as to be really boring.
I had to allow experimenters a very wide latitude as to
when and how to try for results, but as the faculty
under observation is obviously a spontaneous one that
freedom has its advantages, and we can rely to a certain
extent for our evidence on the unexpected coincidence of
success which shows among other things in this tendency
for everyone to give their best guesses in the same part
of the series. Several people wrote asking for guidance
as to the best method or frame of mind for attempting
the experiment, but I was quite unable to give any
advice. I simply do not know and so could not enlighten
them. I did not ask for the experiments to be witnessed
for many and obvious reasons, but I will give in Dia-
gram 3 (as it corroborates very usefully the un-
witnessed experiments) a small group of witnessed trials
—nine people each guessing five times. Amongst these,
five were witnessed by Dr. Schiller, his brother guessing,
and the rest by myself, my tv/o sisters, my little niece
and friends guessing. (See p. 239.)
The average score for A guesses is 23-39.
B
G
D
E
5 )
3 J
13- 26.
14- 24
13-33
9-52
I was also lucky enough to witness the twenty-five
trials which are shown below. The following will also be
238 Ina Jephson [part
a useful example of a filled-in scoring sheet, and will
make clearer the actual working of the experiment.
Date. Guess. Card. Score.
13.11.27 oD 37-71 A
7S 6S 21-12 B
OS KS 21-12 C - Set I.
5C 5C 45-73 D
7H 9S 5-07 E
1 ^0-7'^
1 0\J 1 o
14.11.27
T !"\
JD JC 29-68 A
6S 6D 29-68 B
QC 4C 16-04 C - Set II.
6S KS 16-04 D
7C 8S 1309 E
XUt: OO
15.11.27 QH OUT
2x1 16-04 A
6S KG 8-02 B
5D 5H 37-71 C -
Set III.
2H 5C 5-07 D
4S lOS 21-12 E
lb. 11. 27 5x1 7x1 21-12 A
8D IOC 5-07 B
QC 2S 8-02 G - Set IV.
6D JC -00 D
5S 2D 5-07 E .
17.11.27 8JJ '1T\
ID 21-12 A \
JD QD 21-12 B
JD 6C .00 C - Set V.
5H 4S 5-07 D
4H 9H 21-12 E 1
68-43
Total score 430-95
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 239
This result I have now come to consider as a typical
good result. The score is 430-95 (the average chance
GUESSES
A B C D E
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14-
13
12
II
10
9
8
7
6
T-
\
-
r
\
\
\
\
\
V
'A
r u A 4 [ <
rC
n P 5
^, n ft U IS
1
1
\
\
'
— -
-- 1
T'
\
\
Y
1
An f
-t-l-
1
V
4--
'
- 1
1
45 \VITNES~rn GURSS^S
DIAGRAM 3.
score for the same number of guesses is 279-50), and
the score at or above which we may suspect the results
240 Ina Jephson [part
to be beyond chance is 329-50. Another very usual
characteristic apftears in that the first set of five guesses is
considerably better than the last, the fii'st scoring 130-75
as against the last 68-43.
The exjjerimenter on this occasion Avas Mile. Schelpe, the
French governess to my sister's children, and I watched
her do these trials as we sat round the fire in the school-
room on five consecutive evenings. She did not seem at
all surprised when I asked her to try, and told me that
she had noticed before that she seemed to know what a
card was before she looked at it, and had often tried by
herself just for fun and to pass the time away. I asked
her to do a " telepathic " experiment, and cutting the
pack, I looked at the card cut which was the four of
spades. She at once said "4 of spades," and went on to
divine the next five cards with again a diminishing degree
of success : 4S for 4S, lOD for 8D, 5H for QC, 3H for 6H,
7D for 7C, 5D for 3C. Possibly the fact that my mind
was holding the image of the card made it easier for
Mile. Schelpe to get the card correctly.^ If I had done
a graph for the results of Mile. Schelpe's twenty-five trials,
we should get her A guesses scoring 125-67, her B guesses
85-01, her C guesses scoring 82-89, her D guesses scoring
71-91, her E guesses scoring 65-47, a very definite falling
off from A guesses to E guesses.
The next diagram (4) shows the total result of the
whole collection of guesses. It is the result obtained by
240 people each guessing five sets of five guesses, twenty-
five in all, which makes 6000 divinations. I included, of
course, every result that had been done correctly with the
right time intervals,' etc., up to the date on which I had
completed the 6000 aimed at, whether the results were
good, bad or indifi^erent. An inquiry such as this is
fraught with delays, but the fact that the results continue
so much the same for over four years has helped to
^ A very similar exjoerience in an experiment in card-guessing is
reported by Mr. Saltmarsh in S.P.R. Jour., March 1925, pp. 44, 45.
On this occasion five cards were being divined, and the only one to
bo named correctly was one accidentally seen by another j^erson in
the room.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 241
impress me and made a mere run of luck seem an un-
satisfactory explanation of the general success and of the
success persistently attained in early guesses.
GUESSES
A e C D E
14
13
12
10
V REPRESENTS CURVE FOR TOTAL RESULTS PEOPLES GUESSES
Z SAME NUMBER OF "CHANCe" RESULTS
DIAGRAM 4.
242 ' Ina Jephson [part
Results were sent from many countries : America,
Canada, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Portugal, and of course
from England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, so that if
there is anything curious about the results I think we
can at least rule collusion out of it, for of course nobody
knew at which particular point in the series to record
fraudulently an increased degree of success.
The upper curve y on the diagram shows the amount of
success achieved by these 240 people. I have scored all
the A guesses together, all the B guesses together, and
so on, so that each point on the curve represents 1200 A
guesses, then 1200 B guesses and so on. The average score
for one guess in each group has been struck on each occasion.
The lower curve, z, shows the amount of success achieved
by 6000 card-drawings : that is to say, 6000 cards were
exposed from one pack and compared with 6000 cards
exposed from another pack, and then scored in exactly
the same way as a " guess " is scored against an actual
card. On this curve also, of course, 1200 A guesses
appear together, and 1200 B guesses appear together on
each point of the curve, and an average score for each
guess has been struck as before. It is possible in this
way to make an exact comparison between the effects of
divination and of chance.
The following is the table for Diagram 4 :
Average Score for each Gfess.
ABODE
People (curve ?/) - 13-65 12-76 12-73 12-81 13-23
Chance (curve 2) - 10-75 11-07 11-75 11-53 10-59
This next table is a further summary of the experi-
ment :
People's Chance Card-
Guesses, drawings.
Total score for 6000 - - 78,205-57 66,832-85
Average for set of 25 - - 325-85 278-65
Average score for each guess 13-03 11*14
The chance card-drawings were done by Herr Leonhard
of Frankfurt. He is skilled in statistical work, and his
figures can be relied on for accuracy. It was essential
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 243
to have an accurately scored chance series for com-
parative purposes, and Dr. Fisher's calculations are very
closely confirmed. The theoretical chance average score
for 25 pairs of card-drawings is 279-50, whilst Herr Leon-
hard for the same number gets 278-65. The theoretical
mean expectation is 11-18, and in Herr Leonhard's series
is 11-14.
It will be noticed that not at any point in the series
do the experimenters' guesses touch the line of mean
expectation, and more important still—that the guesses
which achieve the highest score are in this case also the
first or early guesses,—so that in the total results we do
get the effect expected and hoped for from the beginning
—the suggestive " fatigue-curve." It resembles rather the
fatigue curve occurring in factories and noted in indus-
trial research, showing how the output starts well,
diminishes as the worker gets tired, and improves again
as the prospect of rest inspires their efforts. Many such
curves can be seen in books on industrial psychology. In
" guessing," it may be confusion or lack of spontaneity
which affects success—not fatigue.
Diagram 5 is a further analysis of Diagram 4.
The object aimed at in this diagram is to analyse the
curve for the total results with a view to discovering if
the "fatigue" element would vary for experimenters of vary-
ing capacity, and in all these experiments I have assumed
that clairvoyant capacity was at work, since all had
achieved scores above chance (that is to say, scores that
were better than 329-50 for twenty-five guesses). I made
a rather arbitrary division, taking first all those scores
between 400 and 500 for curve x, then all scores between
500 and 600 for curve y, then all scores over 600 for
curve z. The following table gives the details :
People. Curve, A B C D E
33 X 19-31 17-82 16-97 17-97 17-14
9 y 23-42 19-01 19-68 23-44 22-60
4 z 29-02 33-22 31-99 30-51 34-85
Unfortunately I know none of the people in the over-
600-score group, so though perhaps it is illogical to be
244 Ina Jephson [part
able to believe in some beyond-chance scores and not in
others, I find these very high scores (the highest reaches
971-53) very hard to accept without further confirmation.
GUESSES
A B C D E
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 245
On the evidence of these curves, if we assume that
they are genuine, it does look as if the " fatigue " element
became less marked when the clairvoyant faculty is stronger,
but it is obviously impossible to draw conclusions from
so small a number. The verdict must remain not proven,
but such speculations are irresistible, and the possibility is
certainly worth watching.
Diagram 6. Curve y shows the general deterioration of
score from first sets to last sets. It is made by taking
the average score for each guess in the first set of five
consecutive guesses, and then the average score for each
guess in the second set of five consecutive guesses, and so
on, so that each point on the curve represents 240 sets of
five consecutive guesses. (If the reader will refer to the
comments on Mile. Schelpe's score, a good instance of this
deterioration will be clearly seen, her first set of five
scoring 130-75, her last 68-43.)
The lower curve z is again the chance curve, the average
score of each guess in one-fifth the total number of 6000
card drawings being shown at each point.
Figures for Diagram 6 A B C D E
People - - - 13-57 12-66 13-37 12-93 12-64
Chance - - - 10-75 11-07 11-75] 11-53 10-59
I consider this definite drop from first sets to last sets
in the total results got by these 240 people reinforces
very strongly the hypothesis put forward, that we are
here observing at work, and progressively deteriorating, an
unknown faculty of perception. The fact that there is a
marked tendency towards first-guess-success in short series
of five does not at all necessitate that we should also get
this diminution of success from the beginning of the
whole series to the end. That both these effects do occur
is surely rather noteworthy and suggestive. It is also a
further confirmation of a characteristic which I have
noticed in my own efforts and which showed up again in
my witnessed guesses with Mr. Dingwall.
With regard to the total number of results shown by
curve y (Diagram 4), one great objection to it will im-
mediately occur, namely—how do I know that this is a
246 Ina Jejjhson [part
genuine record of efforts to divine a certain number of
cards ? Every one may have recorded only their best
results waiting on each occasion to record their guesses
SETS SETS SETS SETS SETS
|5T 2"° 3°° 4'"" 5"^"
14
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 247
till chance gave them some success. They may also have
felt obligingly " We must do something for poor Miss
Jephson " and scored accordingly. This doubt about the
vahdity of the results I agree is a strong one, but there
are also many strong arguments on the other side.
Amongst these I should place the fact that I know a
good many of the experimenters, and have confidence
in their good faith ; and with it I should couple the
fact that I myself—those people whom I know—and
those people who are unknown to me, get the same type
of result. I admit that this is an argument which may
weigh more with myself than with others. I was dis-
cussing this problem of the trustworthiness of the records
with a critic, and had to agree that as a large proportion
of guessers was quite unknown to me the possibihty of
fraud must not be lost sight of. It was suggested that
the curve y (Diagram 4) which shows the average of
the total result achieved by the experimenters, was not
so much a " fatigue-curve " as a " fraud-curve " or a
" curve of obhgingness." The experimenter starts off by
doctoring the score, repents slightly after his first lapse,
and then ends up by feeling that perhaps he has not made
it impressive enough and so finishes up with a little
flourish. One of my transatlantic correspondents who had
replied to an appeal to guess cards and to get others to
guess also, wrote to me saying : "I enclose results from
Miss Georgina C. Tibbs. The latter is the only person in
the city of Townville whom I could rely on to fill in the
scoring sheet." The names, of course, are imaginary.
Perhaps my view is too narrowly patriotic and insular,
but I do not think that things with us are as bad as that.
But there are far more convincing reasons than these
personal ones for thinking that the records are worthy
of confidence, for if the results are analysed, as they can
be by the help of Diagram 7, it will be found that, after
complete success, which amounts to more than double
what chance should give, the next class to show superiority
is the class scoring 21-12 : that is, the class where suit
and rank have been correctly guessed. The classes where
number is concerned show success less markedly above
248 Ina Jephson [part
chance average. This curious heaping of success into one
form weighs very heavily, I think, in favour of my
unknown experimenter's probity. It seems too much of
ANALYSIS OF TOTAL RESULTS INTO CLASSES
1700
1600
1500
1400
1300
1200
IIOO
1000
900
BOO
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
'A
%
i
'/,
•},
/a
'a
f
i
7,
//,
'/,
'A
',
i
>},
'/,
'/,
//, i
% 1
1
1
\
i %
% '/i }.
1
'/i %
Vi
i
Vf V,
Yi
y/.
1
i
— '/
i
i
i
i
v.
t
i
i
\
\
-
%
\
4-
1
i
i
1
!
i
i
1
i
i
1
1
1
1
CLASS NR NC ON
PEOPLE
SR OS CR
il CHANCE n
DIAGRAM 7.
OC OR 00
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 249
a coincidence that they should all doctor their records in
the same particular direction : that is, in such a pro-
nounced oolour-and-suit and rank success.
The following table will help to make this clear. In
the first column is the analysis of 6000 cards. The
figures show the number of cards in each class. In the
second column an analysis is made of the A guesses
(there being only 1200 A guesses, the number in each
class has been multiplied by five so that a comparison
may be made with the total). ^ The third column shows
the amount of cards in each class in the chance card-
drawings done by Herr Leonhard.
People's People's A Chance
Class. Total. Guesses. Card-drawl
NE Value and suit - 245 220 106
NC Value and colour - 157 205 106
DN Value only - 262 300 260
SR Suit and rank - 1032 1085 834
OS Suit only 555 550 522
CR Colour and rank - 856 930 866
OG Colour only - 462 485 543
OR Rank only - 1525 1465 1695
00 Nothing right - 906 760 1068
Diagram 7 perhaps will make comparison easier. The
numbers for each class can be read on the scale, and the
two columns, people's result and chance results, compared.
Explanation of Diageam 7.
Class. People. Chance.
NR 45-73 \'alue and suit 245 106
NC 37-71 Value and colour -
157 106
ON 29-98 Value only 262 260
SR 21-12 Suit and rank 1032 834
OS 16-04 Suit only 555 522
CR 13-09 Colour and rank -
856 866
OC 8-02 Colour only -
462 543
OR 5-07 Rank only 1525 1695
00 •00 Nothing right 006 1068
gram 8 is a similar picture of 1200 A guesses
pared with chance.
It is quite obscure, and I think a most interesting
1 As the total includes the A guesses, the comparison is not as eluci-
dating as it should be.
250 Ina Jephsoii [part
problem, how much the perception of colour may con-
tribute to getting the suit right, and vice versa. The
psychological action involved is quite unknown, but further
experiment should throw light on it. To elucidate further
ANALYSIS OF 1200 A GUESSES INTO CLASSES
r i I I I I
I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I
I I I I I I I 1
I I I
M I I H I !
1700
1600
1500
1400
1300
1200
1100
1000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
—
—
«
-
i
i
i
p
i
i
i
ii
1 «
1
i
i
i
% A-
\
1
1 :t
1
1
'/,
+
\
1
-
i
—
s
1
\
i
i
1 i
i \
i I
1 i
CLASS NR NC ON SR OS CR
PEOPLE m CHANCE P
DIAGRAM 8.
OC OR 00
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 251
this colour and suit success, I will give a table of the
various classes in which it occurs.
People's Guesses.
Six Classes in which
colour is correct.
Class NR -
NC -
SR -
,,08 -
oc -
No. right in each
Class.
- 245
- 157
- 1032
- 555
- 856
- 462
Total 3307
That is, an excess of 307 colour right results over the 3000 which
chance should give.
Three Classes in which
Suit is correct.
Class NR -
„ SR -
„ OS -
People's Guesses.
No. right in each
Glass.
- 245
- 1032
- 555
Total 1832
That is, an excess of 332 suit right results over the 1500 which
chance should give.
Below is a similar analysis for 1200 A guesses (again
multiplied by five so as to make them comparable with
the total).
People's A Guesses.
Six classes in ivhich
Colour is right.
Class NR -
NC -
SR -
OS -
CR -
OC -
No. right in each
Class.
- 220
- 205
- 1085
- 550
- 930
- 485
Total 3475
That is, an excess of 475 colour right results over the 3000 which
chance would give.
252 Ina Jc'pTison [part
People's A Guesses.
Three Classes in which No., right in each
suit is correct. Class.
Class NR - - - - - 220
„ SB - - - - - 1085
„ 08 - - - - - 550
"
Total 1855
Tiiat is, an excess of 355 suit right results over the possible 1500
chance would give.
The next two short tables will enable the reader to
compare the amount of success achieved, first in the
total results, and then in the A guesses in those three
classes in which ymmiber is right.
Total Resdxts.
People's Guesses.
Three Classes in which No. right in each
number is right. Class.
Class NR 245
„ NC 157
„ ON 262
Total 664
That is, an excess of 202-5 number right results over the 461-5
which chance would give.
A Guesses.
People's A Guesses.
Three Classes in which No. right in each
number is right. Class.
Class NR 220
„ NC 205
„ ON 300
Total 725
That is, an excess of 263-5 number right results over the 461-5
which chance might give.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 253
To compress these facts still further I give the following
table :
ToTAJL. A Guesses.
Colour right without Excess 307 Excess 475 A guesses improve
suit. on total guesses
by 168.
Suit right - - ,, 332 ., 355 ^ guesses improve
on total guesses
by 23.
Number right - ,, 202-5 ,, 263-5 ^ guesses improve
on total guesses
by 61.
Interesting as they are the results of this series of ex-
periments alone would fail to be very convincing. There
are so many entirely justifiable criticisms which can be
levelled against them. But the value of an experiment
is enhanced if the results are endorsed by those obtained
by entirely independent investigators. In tliis case the
most remarkable confirmation has come from a series of
experiments carried out by Dr. G. H. Estabrooks, Ph.D.,
in Harvard University. My attention was first drawn
to them a few months after their pubhcation last summer.
They do not seem to me to have attracted over here
nearly the attention they deserve. Dr. Estabrooks's
account can be found in Bulletin 5 of the Boston Society for
Psychic Research, February 1927. His experiments were in
telepathy, and cards again were the medium of experiment.
An agent in one room cut a pack of cards, looked at
the exposed card, whilst the percipient in the next room,
at an arranged mechanical signal, recorded his impression.
He did a large number of experiments with many different
percipients, guessing ^ in short series very much as we
have done, getting, I may say, almost precisely the same
results. The first or early guesses were distinctly the best.
There was an excess of colour and suit right, and the
scores were higher than could be expected from chance.
His colour and suit successes resembled mine quite remark-
ably, as the following tables will show :
1 Dr. Estabrooks says he tells his experimenters that they are literally
to " guess cards."
254 Ina Jephson [part
Dr. Estabbooks. 1660 Card Guesses.
Colour.
Chance. Actual. Chance. Actual.
% %
First 10 cards - - - 415 496 50 59-7
Second 10 cards - - - 415 442 50 53-2
Total 830 938 50 56-5
First 10 cards
Second 10 cards -
Total
bUIT.
Chance. Actual. Chance. Actual.
0/ 0/
207-5 256 25 30-8
207-5 217 25 26-1
415-0 473 25 28-5
Miss Jephson. 6000 Card Guesses.
COLOUK.
Chance. Actual. Chance. Actual.
First 1200 cards
Total cards
3000
3000
3475
3307
50
50
5T9
55-1
First 1200 cards -
Total -
Suit.
Chance. Actual. Chance. Actual.
1500
1500
1855
1832
25
25
30-9
30-5
I will show a yet further simplification of these tables
Total Colour right
Total Suit right
Early guesses, Colour right
,, ,, Suit right
I must point out that the early guesses in Dr. Esta-
brooks's series and in mine are not really entirely com-
and mine may be compared
,
Dr.
Estahroohs.
Mies
Je-phson.
0/
/o
55-1
Chance.
%
56-5
%
50
28-5 30-5 25
55-7 57-9 50
30-6 30-9 25
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 255
parable, I having taken the first guess in every series,
and Dr. Estabrooks having taken the first ten consecutive
guesses, but I hope later perhaps to be able to make an
exact comparison.
I should like to allude also to some experiments by
Dr. Estabrooks that were undertaken at a little distance,
between two rooms in the University, the distance being
about 60 feet. The technique of the experiment was the
same as before. I give his tables as they are most
interesting.
Colour.
First 10 cards -----
Second 10 cards ... -
Total 20 cards -
which is below chance as to colour
Suit.
First 10 cards -----
Second 10 cards - - . .
Total 20 cards -
which is below chance as to suit.
As I have an entirely unjustifiable belief that dis-
tance does not make much difference to success where
clairvoyance is concerned, I was disappointed at the result
of this distance experiment. Dr. Woolley, however, drew
my attention to the fact that (to quote from the report),
" the subjects were for the most part men who had taken
part in Series Number 1, this forming so to speak a second
experiment which was put through at the same sitting.''
The failure may perhaps again be explained by fatigue,
or anxiety due to the added distance may have acted
detrimentally.
1 A curious fact seems worth noting, that on the three occasions when
the conditions may be said to have been adverse (my witnessed experi-
ments with Mr. Dingwall, Dr. Estabrooks's long-distance experiments
and Professor Richet's long-continued ones) the scores are reduced not
Chance.
160
160
320
Actual.
154
153
307
Chance.
80
80
Actual.
76
54
160 130
256 Ina Jephson [part
Dr. Estabrooks's results were on the whole considerably
better than my collection (in spite of his subjects having
been chosen largely, I think, at random). Whether this
superiority is due to the experiments being done under better
conditions, I do not know. I should suspect my group of
subjects of being more clairvoyant than the normal,
having been selected from among people interested in
this subject, and therefore hkely to have had previous
experience of clairvoyance, and so possibly a bias towards
success. A large proportion of the S.P.R. presumably
join owmg to experiences of a supernormal nature. My
first experimenters I had chosen with care because they
were successful in other experiments. The readers of
Light would probably also be already interested, and then
there was a group who had been supposed successful in
Dr. Woolley's broadcast telepathy experiment. In spite of
this the results are inferior to Dr. Estabrooks's collection.
There is another difference in the conditions of the two sets
of experiments which must be considered, and which may
have helped Dr. Estabrooks's percipients towards scoring
more successfully than mine. In his experiment an agent
was present, in mine there was no agent. The question
arises again, which arose over Mile. Schelpe's " telepathic
"
experiment : is it easier for the clairvoyant to divine a
card when the card is known to another intelhgence ?
It may give him two sources of information—the card
itself, and the card in the mind of the agent. I think
this may be the case, and I can picture the " clair-
voyant " as capable of perceiving supernormally both a
material object such as a card, and a mental image such
as a card in the mind of another person. I admit this
is stretching the meaning of the word clairvoyance to
more than its accustomed use, but if we do ex-
tend clairvoyance to include the perception of mental
images as well as material objects the hypothesis of
" telepathy " becomes redundant and unnecessary, and
merely to equality with scores which chance might give but they sink
vmiformly below chance-average. Further, we get this below average
score (in Dr. Estabrooks's, I have not the data for Professor Richet's)
coinbined with the characteristic fatigue curve.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 257
we shall consider that the supernormal activities of the
percipient alone will account for the majority of the known
phenomena of supernormal perception. The fatal charm
of speculation has tempted me too far. This attractively
economical theory must remain for the present purely
speculative. Further experiment, purposely devised to
confine the problem to this special issue, can alone throw
Hght on it.
Dr. Estabrodks's experiments are of great value to
mine in many ways, but it must be remembered that on
two other points our experiments are not exactly com-
parable. Firstly, his experiments are witnessed, mine
are unwitnessed. Secondly, his percipients are in a
separate room from the card, whilst my percipients
presumably held the card or at least touched it.
The disadvantage of imwitnessed experiments I have
already discussed ; the drawback to the method whereby
the card is held in the hand must be further examined.
Where that method is employed we must allow for several
normal and prosaic reasons for success before we need ascribe
success to clairvoyance. The most obvious of these is the
hkehhood that the experimenters consciously or uncon-
sciously know or remember variations and marks on the
back of the cards. I am always much struck when
playing cards with children hov/ quick they are to notice
and make use of such marks.
Another possible source of success, less normal, or at
least less consciously recognised, may be a hyper-sensitive-
ness of touch or sight, enabhng the experimenter to feel
or see a faint impress on the card of pip or picture.
This subject is discussed by Mrs. VerraU in an interest-
ing paper (closely relevant to this series of experiments),
" Some Experiments on the Supernormal Acquisition of
Knowledge " {Proceedings S.P.R., vol. xi., 1895, p. 174).
Mrs. VerraU undertook a long series of guessing cards
under different conditions with a view to testing some of
the suggested causes of success. Her conclusion is
that hyperaesthesia of sight and touch does contribute
to the success, but that it cannot alone account for it,
or cover all the facts.
258 Ina Jephson [part
I must admit frankly the possibility that these normal
reasons for success may account for the high scoring in
my experiments, but we can have unfortunately no
evidence as to the amount, nor does there seem any
reason why these more normal sources of success should
only affect the score in the early guesses, skill or prac-
tice being more likely to increase the later scores. The
striking hkeness between Dr. Estabrooks's results and
mine, even when the modifying conditions of experiment
have been taken into consideration, in my view give
encouragement to the theory that sotne supernormal
perception contributed to the success in both sets of
results and that very similar results can be got without
an agent as rvith one.
Dr. Estabrooks's own conclusions from his experiment
on certain points coincide with mine. He found for
instance, as have many others, that close attention by
the percipient, anxiety, or a too analytical frame of mind
are all detrimental to success ; and moreover, he felt he
could know what type of person was most Hkely to succeed.
Whilst I am on the subject of experiments in America,
I will draw attention to Diagram 9.^ It is the average
score of the A, B, C, D, E guesses of twelve people each
guessing five times. Dr. Walter Prince yevy kindly col-
lected these results for me, being in ignorance, of course,
of the effect hoped for ; and here again, though I admit
this is not a very large number of trials, we get a very
definite fatigue-curve. Then in April he made some trials
himself, getting what I have come to consider an absol-
utely typical good result, starting off with a complete
success, Queen of Clubs for Queen of Clubs, getting his
A guesses the best, and his first set of five better than
his last set of five, and an above-average score of 410-38.
He tried at least twenty more sets, but his initial success
was the only " quite right " achieved in the whole series.
Dr. Prince in sending me the record of the experiment
called my attention to the significance of the gradual
deterioration, saying he had noticed on former occasions,
1 Table for Diagram 9. ABODE
14-84 13-03 11-92 8-17 10-11
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 259
when experimenting in telepathy, clairvoyance and the
like, that a similar deterioration had occurred.
A B c D E
15
14
13
12
10
z
o
<
o
q:
<
z
1/2
50 GUESSES BY 12 AMERICANS.
DIAGRAM 9.
I will now give two diagrams, which need not, however,
be taken very seriously ;
they cannot be taken very
seriously because the number of experiments is so small.
260 Ina Jephson [part
But it is quite legitimate to feel encouraged when the
effect hoped for and already famihar, is again repeated.
By-paths of experiment were a great temptation in this
GUESSES
A B C D E
I
—
\-
-A
—
--
\
4-
-r-
-A
-j
\
-r-
-
\--
-4
v
--
-i \--.
-r
T- -X-
-J.
\
m "4
iU
- ^
-A-
t- :V
\- /
-\
-V -t -r-
\- i- -X
-\-
-i-
-
\
^
— 4- i--
-r-
"T
-V- - 1
/— -\-
it
J--
4- -A\--
1 -L.
1--
-V
Mf
\5 GUESSES CARDS !N SEALED ENVELOPES.
DIAGRAM 10.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 261
research, so many alluring vistas opened up. Two I
could not resist : namely, experiments with cards sealed
in hght-proof envelopes, and long distance experiments.
Diagram 10 shows some experiments with cards in
opaque envelopes. Having collected a good many rather
promising results with cards which had been placed by
people other than the experimenters in opaque photo-
graphic, light-proof envelopes, it seemed worth trying some
under test conditions. So i\Ir. Dingwall very kindly
sealed up for me five numbered envelopes, in each of
which he placed one unseen playing card. The envelopes
were, of course, light proof and burglar proof. They were
returned to him intact. Miss Boucher-James, Aliss Tipping
and another percipient achieved again a fatigue-curve.
Diagram 11 shows the result on a long distance trial,
from London to Devonshire. I explained to my percipient,
whom I will call ]\Iiss X., that I had arranged with JN'Ir.
Saltmarsh in Devonshire that on a certain night he was
to put up in a row five cards on his mantelpiece. He
was not to look at them himself so that telepathj^ might
be excluded. I invoked the powers of suggestion and
explained to Miss X. that the experiment was a perfectly
simple one, that in the realm of clairvoyance distance was
probably non-existent, that it was the merest detail that
she had never been to Mr. Saltmarsh's house in Devon-
shire. I told her that she was to go to sleep with the
intention of a leisurely inspection of Mr. Saltmarsh's
mantelpiece during the night, and that when she woke in
the morning she was to record what she had seen. I
must explain that she habitually got, as I do, a second-
card success, so this result was for her a perfectly typical
curve and score :
Mr. Saltmarsh's cards - 7D
Miss X.'s impression - 2H
Ratio of success 13-09
9C ID OH 2H
9C 3D IS lOD
45-73 21-12 5 07 13-09
Mr. Saltmarsh, reporting the experiment, notes that had the
clairvoyant looked at the cards in no particular order the
score might be greater, her 2H also being right. The clair-
voyant's impression of ''red cards predominating" was also
262 Ina Jephson [part
correct. Further long distance experiments with Miss X.
were done, but of course, as I expected, with less success.
GUESSES
A B C D E
1
it
-4'
t— -
N
-1-- -V-
f—
- c
J
L
\ -
-i-
:t:
/
-
- i
\--
"V
-I--- ^ -
--y
/-
i-
-
s
:s: -y-
V-V-
^ —
At
5 LONG DISTANCE GUESSES
DIAGRAJI II,
Yet another question occurs to one which it would be
interesting to settle, but which again must remain un-
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing
settled till we have further data, and that is :
does sex
make any difference to the faculty of clairvoyance ? I
should expect women to be more successful than men
—for all down the ages there have been more witches
than wizards, and the weU-worn phrase, " woman's in-
tuition " may have a grain of truth in it. In 'this card-
divining experiment out of the 240 people who tried,
145 were women, 93 men (of two I was unable to learn
the sex) ; 75 per cent, of the women showed fatigue-
curves, 44 per cent, of the men, whilst women's average
score was shghtly higher than the men's. It would be
most interesting if this tendency should be confirmed by
further research.
Although this report is becoming intolerably long, I
should hke before I end to refer briefly to work of earher
investigators in similar experiments with cards. Mrs.
Verrall's experiments in 1895 have akeady been men-
tioned, but as far back as 1882 Barrett, Gurney and Myers
tried some " telepathic " experiments with cards, with re-
markable above-chance success—(i^e^ori on Committee on
Though Reading, July 1882). In 1887, Dr. Schiller
and his brother experimented both in telepathy and
clairvoyance [Proc. S.P.R., vol. iv. p. 209). The card
thought of or to be divined was recorded in this case by
Dr. Schiller's brother, Mr. F. N. Schiller, writing auto-
matically through planchette,—again with results above
chance. In 1895 {Proc. S.P.B., vol. xi. p. 2) Mr. Henry
Rawson reports on experiments in thought-transference with
cards ; he remarks, " I found myseK almost invariably less
successful in every series of experiments after the first.''
In France Professor Richet's long series of experi-
ments reported on in an article in the Eevue Philosophique
(vol. xviii., Dec. 1884), "La suggestion mentale et le
calcul des Probabihtes," gave results which correspond
closely to both mine and Dr. Estabrooks's. He has :
1st guess success.
above chance success,
above average colour success,
264 Ina Jephson [part
and, a most interesting point, beloiv chance success where
the conditions were adverse, that is, in a prolonged
series. Professor Richet's experiments were nominally
in " telepathy," but he does not lay stress on telepathy,
he affirms only that some supernormal agency is at work.
I was dehghted when I read Prof. Richet's article to
find some confirmation of my views from a source which
I resj)ect so deeply.
M. Rene Sudre, in his article on " Clairvoyance and
the Theory of Probabihties," Psychic Research, Feb. 1928,
also alludes to some experiments with Eugenie by Pro-
fessor Richet, the cards being in fight-proof envelopes.
The table he gives makes a perfectly typical fatigue-
curve, and he calls attention to this early-success effect,
but I do not think he has reahsed sufficiently its value
for experimental purposes.
I should like here to put up a brief defence of experi-
ments with cards, as M. Rene Sudre's article is written to
try and dissuade investigators from undertaking experi-
ments of this character, where the results have to be com-
pared to chance on a mathematical basis. M. Sudre objects
that few investigators have the necessary mathematical
quafifications. I have none, but I have been able to
supply the deficiency by enfisting the help of mathe-
maticians ;
and others can do as I have done. The calcu-
lations given in this paper have almost entirely been done
and checked by competent mathematicians. Another draw-
back to which M. Sudre calls attention is that in these
experiments the negative results must be added to the
positive ones. I agree that this may be most misleading.
It has always reminded me of the old story of the two
men, one bow-legged and the other knock-kneed, who
were able to enter the Irish Constabulary by having
their characteristics averaged. The analogy in a problem
of curves is really very exact. M. Sudre's plea is for
an experiment which would give a result so definitely and
clearly beyond chance, that a single success in it would
prove the existence of clairvoyant faculty. This might be
effective from the point of view of mathematical proof, but
M. Sudre does not allow for the fact (to which Prof. Richet
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 265
has drawn attention) that our belief in any phenomenon
is ahnost entirely due to its repetition. It will only be when
we can show the effects of clairvoyance at work in in-
stances which can be repeated an indefinite number of
times that we shall be convinced of its reahty.
The use of a closed and rigid system, such as a pack of
cards, gives scope for the detection of any recurring charac-
teristics of the faculty under observation ; and I feel that
the importance of working within such a closed system,
with which other experiments may be compared, far
outweighs any difficulties there may be in examining the
facts once they have been assembled. The main difficulty
in psychic research is to get a sufficiently definite and an
exactly repeatable basis for experiment, and here at least,
whatever the inferences, the facts are explicit.
I will spare my readers a summary of the experiment,
as I must have stressed to weariness the points which
I have considered important. The interest must lie, not
so much in its character but in the natural inference that
if this supposed faculty of supernormal perception really
exists we do not know what possible limit to put to its
activities. Looked at in connection with cards alone this
curious leakage of knowledge if accepted as a fact might
have a marked effect. Bridge parties will become scenes
of strain and suspicion and only those who show no
clairvoyant power and have been passed by the S.P.R. as
being free from " fatigue -curves " will be allowed to play ;
our best clairvoyants will leave abruptly for Texas or
Monte Carlo. But the more serious import of the experi-
ment must surely be that if its inferences are accepted,
we must widen considerably our conception of our mental
powers. It is most unlikely that this perceptive gift
works only in connection with playing cards. Many other
possible manifestations of it crowd to mind—such as
book-tests by mediums—the reading of sealed packets,
etc., etc. A fundamental change in our conception of
human faculty must take place.
"To remain reasonable," says Prof. Bergson, "is to
remain at work," and the work involved in these experi-
ments for the moment being happih^ over, I will prove
266 Ina Jephson [part
the truth of Prof. Bergson's dictum by indulging my
fancy.
I think that the many extra-normal phenomena with
which investigators in psychic research become famihar
can be more easily explained, or at least can hve more
harmoniously with our other conceptions of hfe, if we
adopt the following view of mind and brain. (I did not
originate it, and probably have distorted it somewhat for my
own use, but I find it helpful.) This view of mind regards
mind as " consciousness," and ascribes to the brain and
sense organs the role of an instrument of exclusion and
selection. It pictures consciousness as infinitely receptive,
and in danger of being overwhelmed by the thronging
impressions from the objective world were it not for the
kind offices of the brain, which excludes any material
which is not relevant to the activities of the " conscious-
ness " which it serves. If we take this view we can
picture the facts which we acquire supernormally (that
is without the use of the normal senses) as facts which
have somehow avoided exclusion. They have as it were
passed the hall porter (whose duty it is to exclude
unorthodox visitors), whilst he was asleep. In our ex-
periment with cards, for instance, we are not helped
to success by using our brains in the ordinary way. The
information we seek seems to shp in best when our
brains are otherwise employed ; in other words, and as
we should expect, when the hall porter is busy or
slumbering. Another analogy may be taken. If we
compare the " consciousness " to a sensitive plate in a
camera and the brain to the lens, the plate (in a camera
which is completely hght-proof) can only record the
impressions selected for it by the lens. If, however, any
hght enters by an accidental opening in the side of the
camera the plate at once is Hable to record extra impres-
sions. It will record " facts inaccessible to its normal
lens " ; in the camera-world it would very soon be
considered " clairvoyant " ; it might even be fined for
predicting the future, as it could, quite genuinely, be
able to record facts which were " round the corner
"
from its light-proof companions.
109] Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing 267
There are many speculations and tempting correlations
which I should like to indulge in, but I must refrain.
GUESSES
A B C D E
1
-
t-
\
-A
i -
1-
-X
-A
\
-
A-
-A-
it
_ J .
-\
\
V-
-V- /
t- "5;
s
i-
~~r
-t a:
h- -A>-
- ^
\-- i
--\-
—
N
Eftt FATmi
1
^-
\^
J—
L
ft
1
- \ 1
-
-J— -
r-
/--
1.
-
DIAGRAM 12.
I have saved up the most attractive diagram (12) for a
suitable curtain." It has. I think, considerable charm.
268 Ina Jephson [part
The five people who took part in this and whose card
divinations go to make up the curve are :
Dr. Hans Driesch, a former President,
Professor Dodds, a member of Council,
Mrs. Salter, the editor of the Journal,
Miss I. Newton, Secretary, and
Mr. Theodore Besterman, Librarian.
This combined curve shows very clearly how even in the
realm of the unconscious the members of Council and
officers of the society co-operate to help the efforts of mem-
bers towards siiccess ; and success will have been achieved
if this report prove sufficiently interesting to move others
to carry the experiments further.
109] Appendix 269
APPENDIX
When this report was read at a meeting of the Society,
questions were asked as to how much the habit of preferring
some cards to others may have affected the results—and if
so, to what extent would it alter the scoring.
Card preferences do appear—my attention had first been
drawn to this characteristic in Dr. WooUey's broadcast experi-
ment in telepathy. I have not given the list of them because
possibly further experiments may be undertaken, and I do not
want my experimenters to know which their card preferences
are, since it makes spontaneous guessing so much more
difficult ; but I hope to report on this aspect of the subject
later. Mr. Fisher at first informed me that card preferences
did not affect the scoring—but he subsequently modified his
opinion slightly, and I give below his revised version. It is
a slight modification of his first figures. It has not been
possible to rescore all the existing records on the new figures,
but the very slight preference for plain cards and the antipathy
to pictm-e cards which appeared in the total results would
not have been enough to affect the score in any appreciable
manner. Then there was another question as to whether
the actual cards which had been drawn showed preferences
for certain cards—for if there had been any marked irregularity
it would affect the scoring. I have not overlooked the point,
and so far as I have gone into the matter, I think I can
safely say there is not enough irregularity possibly to affect
the score to any serious degree, but I hope to make a further
report later.
De. Fisher's Statement concerning the Effect of
Psychological Card Preferences.
The theory of scoring card coincidences is based upon the
comparison between pairs of cards chosen at random, and
pairs of cards of which one is drawn at random from a pack,
while the other is obtained by the subject in an attempt to
guess or divine which card has been drawn. If these two cases
270 Appendix [past
differed only in the possession by some subjects of the power
to guess a card in some degree like that drawn, the existence
of such a power could have been tested strictly by the method
of scoring previously proposed (Proc. S.P.R., vol. xxxiv. p. 181,
July 1924). There is, however, a second difference, which at
first sight appears to be without influence on the results, yet
which requires in an exact treatment some modification of the
scoring system previously devised.
It has been shown that in attempting to guess an unknown
card people in general—and the same is probably true of each
person in particular—exhibit a rather marked preference for
certain cards. The effect of such preferences on the frequency
of different degrees of success may best be perceived by con-
sidering an extreme case in which, on every occasion, the
first card which presents itself to the mind of the subject is
always the same, for example, the King of Hearts. The card
actually drawn will be with equal frequency every card of the
pack, and it is evident that the guess will be right in colour
half the trials, and right in suit in one quarter ; also it will
be right in value once in thirteen trials, these being in each
case the probabilities for the same degree of agreement between
two cards drawn at random. In the case of rank, however,
there will be this difference, for the real card will be a picture
card only three times in 13 trials, while the probability of two
cards chosen at random being both plain or both picture cards
is 109 in 169. The latter probability will in fact only repre-
sent the true chance if the subject guesses picture cards with
the correct frequency, namely three times in thirteen trials.
It will not be correct if he always guesses the King of Hearts,
nor in less measure, will it be correct if, while varying his
guess he yet guesses picture cards with more than the correct
frequency.
The effect of this factor is thus somewhat to penalise those
subjects who have a psychological preference for picture cards,
and if this preference is general, so to give generally unduly
low scores. On the other hand persons with a preference for
plain cards will have enjoyed a slight advantage. In an
exact analysis, it is possible to overcome the difficulty by
scoring the two cases independently. Below are given two
scoring systems appropriate for the two cases in which the
109] Appendix 271
card guessed by the subject is a plain card or a picture card
respectively. The nature of the real card does not affect the
system.
Plain card chosen. Picture card chosen.
0. R. N. 0. R. N.
0. : -73 3-78 30-54 0. : 1-7 16-45 27-50
C. : 8-79 11-84 38-6 C. : 8-67 23-42 34-47
S. : 16-85 19-89 46-65 S. : 15-64 30-39 41-44
both these systems the mean score, if the card guessed is
independent of the true card, is 11-18, and the standard
deviation of the mean of 25 guesses is 2"0. The effect of
the change is simply to put upon an equal footing those whose
preference leans to plain cards, or to picture cards respectively ;
it seems unlikely that it will greatly alter the average of
any extensive group of scores.
It will be noted as an apparent defect in the use of two
scoring tables that the effect on the score of guessing right
instead of wrong on an even chance, for example, in colour,
is 8-06 for plain cards and only 6-97 for picture cards. A
guesser, in fact, whose strong point lay in colour or suit, will
run up a big score quicker if he sticks to plain cards ; this is
a necessary consequence of using a single composite system for
scoring different possible faculties. The different faculties may
be examined separately merely by enumerating the number of
successes and failures in each point (i) Colour, (ii) Suit, if the
colour be right, (iii) Value, and comparing the observed num-
bers with those expected by chance. Only in the case of
(iv) Rank, will the choice of a plain or a picture card affect
the expected frequencies, and only in this faculty wUl a
separate enumeration be necessary.
272 Review [part
REVIEW.
La Levitation. Contribution historique et critique a I'etude du
merveilleux, par Olivier Leroy, agrege de I'Universite.
Libraii'ie Valois, Paris.
This book of more than 380 pages (appendix and indices
inclusive) is written by a Roman Catholic, a fact which,
—
mistakenly, as I think,—is not made apparent until nearly
the end.
The book, however, is written almost throughout in a
scientific and critical spirit ; and M. Leroy may be truly said
to be an amazingly wide reader. He is also well acquainted
with recent researches in the domain of Physical Spiritism,
has read the late Frank Podmore's work on Modern Spiritualism,
and such names as those of D. D. Home, Eusapia Paladino,
Stainton Moses, and " Willy " (Schneider) appear freely under
his pen.
By far the greatest part of the book is devoted to hagio-
graphy, as M. Leroy is of opinion that " Cathohc hagiography
alone possesses on levitation a written and ancient tradition,
continuous and varied, supported by controlled and precise
documents. . . . Catholic hagiography among doubtful facts,
or even facts probably interpolated, presents a certain number
of cases where the proofs of the reality of levitation offer
those guarantees which we are in the habit of requiring of
History "
(p. 349).
As a matter of fact, beginning with St. Dunstan, Archbishop
of Canterbury (918-988), and ending with cases taking place
in the nineteenth if not in the twentieth century, the author
presents us with an endless series of alleged levitations,
copiously quoting from the Acta Sanctorum and other sources.
He is the first to admit, nevertheless, that from an evidential
standpoint the great majority of these cases proves nothing
109] Review 273
at all. Such an admission instead of weakening his position,
naturally only strengthens it. And we are the more inclined
to lend an attentive ear to his argumentation in regard to
those cases which, in his opinion, are of a conclusive and
convincing character.
On the whole, the following cases deserve, according to him,
peculiar attention as being well attested (in some cases "perhaps
excellently attested).
St. Joseph of Copertino (1603-1663). In the bull of canonisa-
tion of this saint (Pope Benedict XIV.) it is stated that no
other saint can be compared to him in the domain of " ecstatic
flights."
Saint Theresa of Avila (1515-1582).
Samt Alphonso of Liguori (1696-1787).
The Blessed Andre-Hubert Fournet (the first levitations
occurring in 1820).
Joseph Benoit Cottolengo (died in 1842).
Marie de Jesus (Mfere du Bourg). Several levitations are
mentioned occm-ring in the forties and fifties of last century.
Bernardino Realino (died 1616).
Francisco Saurez, the well-known Jesuit and theologian
(seventeenth century).
Some of the incidents narrated in connection with these
personalities are both apparently quite inexplicable by the
action of known forces and seem to leave nothing to be
desired in the way of attestation. Without entering into
minute details I will content myself with stating that in
my opinion these cases constitute an important body of
evidence not to be lightly set aside. They certainly make it
appear " more probable than not " (to use an expression of
Mrs. Sidgwick's about the reahty of the Physical Phenomena
of Spiritism many years ago) that such things as genuine
levitations of persons later beatified or canonised by the
Roman Catholic Church did really occur.
This is imdoubtedly the impression produced on me by
M. Leroy's book, or rather by a few of the hagiographic cases
therein mentioned. I feel bound, however, to make the
following observations. It does not seem to me that the
author takes sufficiently into account the possibility of piae
fraudes as a causal explanation, though he mentions " hagio-
s
274 Review [part
graphic amplifications " as he chooses to call them ; this is
perhaps not enough. We are told, for instance, that the
most celebrated of Joseph of Copertino's levitations occurred
in the presence of Prince John-Frederic of Brunswick (1649).
This young Prince visited in that year the principal courts
of Europe. When in Rome, he decided to go to Assisi to
see St. Joseph. He twice was present at two masses said
by the saint, and witnessed two levitations, of which one of
five minutes' duration. He was so impressed by what he
had seen that he became a Roman Catholic, one of the
two chamberlains who accompanied him later following his
example. Now it is obvious that in this case the saint's
entourage had the greatest interest in producing the most
powerful impression possible on the Prince's imagination.
Any artifice in this direction could only have been considered
as laudable : for would not the aim have been to save from
eternal perdition a human soul, a princely soul ? That in
this year of grace 1928 many Roman Catholic priests would
have disapproved such an artifice I have no doubt ; but
the case may have been quite different in the seventeenth
century just after the Thirty Years' War. To the five very
reasonable " crHires eliminatoires " which, the author thinks,
are apt to give us some security in the research of cases
of authentic levitation if there be such (p. 217), I am therefore
inclined to add a sixth one running as follows : we ought
not to attach much value to such cases even well attested
where there is very strong reason to suspect that a group
of persons was intensely inteiested in producing the levitation.^
Among the cases narrated I find one which may perhaps
raise in the reader's mind a doubt as to whether even in
the best attested cases confusion was invariably excluded.
We are told (p. 152) that in 1746, at Foggia, St. Alphonso
of Liguori was publicly levitated when preaching in church
" on Mary's glories." But it so happens than an exactly
similar incident (even including a ray of light which, starting
from an image of the Madonna, struck the preacher's face)
is related as having occurred in 1756 at Amalfi. Of course
it is possible that there may have been two incidents, but
1 To mt) tilt! chief question in the present instance is, howev; r, this : ia the
case " well attested " ?
109] Review 275
this similarity will appear to some suspicious. M. Leroy
says himself that the similarity is so great " qu'on croirait
faute de temoignage a une deuxieme version d\i meme evene-
ment." Are these femoignages " decisive ?
It is further obvious that in some cases levitations are
spoken of by one narrator where another sees, apparently,
no supernormal phenomena at eAl. Thus Cardinal de Ville-
com't, author of a huge history of St. Alphonso of Liguori,
mentions two cases where the saint, already quite old and
almost motionless, was levitated over his armchair. But
Father Berthe, author of another biography of the same saint,
relates the same two incidents in terms which, properly speaking,
may not suggest a levitation (pp. 157-158). In another instance
whilst Cardinal Villecourt again speaks of a levitation. Father
Berthe merely mentions that the saint se livra a de tels
transports qu'il n'en dormit pas la nuit suivante "
(p. 159).
One cannot help asking oneself whether such characteristic
discrepancies could not be much more multiplied.
However, for me the chief consideration is that of the
original documents. Some, or many, of the works containing
biographies of the saints in que.stion are said to have been
written on the basis of documents having figured in the
processes of beatification or canonisation, but the critical
reader is well entitled to ask to be allowed to see if not the
documents themselves, at least officially certified copies made
anew. Seeing that a few of the saints asserted to have been
levitated lived in the nineteenth century, the documents in
question ought to be easily accessible, and I venture to suggest
that an effort be made in that direction. A couple of centuries
or so ago cojnes even certified might perhaps have been
inadequate in dealing with such a problem, but happily we
live in a more honest and more enhghtened age.
Meanwhile I can only say that the impression produced
by a small selection of the cases quoted by M. Leroy is
almost irresistible. I have in particular in view the evidence
of the surgeon Francesco di Pierpolo describing a levitation
of St. Joseph of Copertino in the course of an operation
(p. 137). No better evidence could be desired—of course with
the reservation made above as to the documents.
Outside the hagiographic levitations M. Leroy is of opinion
276 Review [part
that the ensemble of the alleged facts is rather of an elusive
character. " The magico-religious facts of Oriental sects, remote
and fabulous, elude every criticism. The exploits of the
sorcerers whether savage or otherwise also belong to uncon-
trollable folklore. The evolutions of the possessed grow
too restrained when approaching our time for us not to suspect
exuberance in the old narratives "
(p. 198).
The author seems to me to pass somewhat too Ughtly over
the fakir performances. He mentions JacoUiot's experiments
with the fakir Covindassamy (p. 19) only to state that the
author of Le voyage au pays des fakirs charmeurs does not
inspire in him any confidence (p. 188). The author further
notes that " whether in India or in the Far East we find
ourselves in the presence of a mere theoretical tradition
unsupported by any controllable fact "
(p. 189).
As a matter of fact, though I have never made a special
study of Indian mysteries, I have come across two first-hand
cases of levitation apparently excluding every possibility of
trickery. In the first case related to me by a Russian
gentleman a fakir was levitated to a very great height ^ in
the presence of a crowd. I had every confidence in this
gentleman, now deceased. In the second case a Rumanian
described to me the levitation of a fakir in daylight in
Singapore, he (the Rumanian) assuring himself by contact
that the fakir's feet were off the ground. (I have failed,
though I have tried, to obtain from this Rumanian a
written statement.) It seems therefore to me—unless I be
in this case a specially privileged person—that such incidents
are more frequent than is often supposed. I wish a serious
effort could be made to collect more of them.
Of course they do not apparently exclude hallucination ; but
most of the hagiographic cases also do not exclude it. Though
I have found in M. Leroy's book some evidence of the non-
hallucinatory character of some of the episodes (I mean, of
course, the best attested ones), this evidence amounts to little.
And I think M. Leroy dismisses " fascination," as he calls it,
in a little too cavalier a fashion. He writes (p. 328) :
A criticism of this hypothesis can be summed up in a
' About twice the height of a five-storied building. Cf. Zeitschr. *ur
kritisch. Okkult., I Band, 3 Heft, pp. 196-200.
109] Review 277
few lines ; in fact it I'emains to be proved that suggestion
can operate on a normal man in the waking state without
preliminary manauvres. It becomes still more unlikely
in the case of a crowd. Even were it possible, the idea
of the mystic suggesting [levitation] to those around him
must be rejected for the following reasons : (1) the Saint
does not wish to be seen when levitated but is afraid
[of the prospect] ; (2) some Saints experienced levitations
when believing themselves alone.
On the contrary, 1 am rather inchned to think that where
ardent and intense religious faith is concerned, a crowd may
sometimes make easier the propagation of a hallucination or
quasi-hallucination. What do we know, first of all, as to how
many people in this crowd share in the impression ? The
point de depart of the hallucination may be some modest
but concrete fact, such as the " mystic " rising on tiptoes
(quite possibly in a genuinely " ecstatic " state). If the
position of the man is such that his feet are not seen, if
the crowd is already sufficiently emp>oignee by him, if a saint's
nimbus already encircles his head in the popular imagination
—last not least : if the audience is a southern one, a delusion
en masse is, I think, likely to spread hke wildfire. I have
especially in view when writing this the incidents related of
St. Alphonso in Foggia and (or ?) in Amalfi. I wish, however,
that there be no misunderstanding : such explanations will
7iot cover some of the best facts.
Not to make too long a review long enough already, (but
the subject, especially as presented by M. Leroy, is fascinating !)
I will content myself with the following cursory remarks.
Pp. 29-32. Extracts are given by the author from the
proces-verbal of an examination in 1591 of a possessed woman
of Louviez, named Frangoise Fontaine. She was exorcised,
and during the ceremony was, in the presence of several
persons, repeatedly levitated and carried about in the air in
a most extraordinary way. The original of this proces-verbal,
we are told, is in the Paris BibliotMque Nationale, MS. No.
24122 du fonds frangais.
The writer notes (p. 57) that he has been unable to find
in the records of the Protestant Chm-ches any statements as
to levitations of Protestant " mystics." In particular he
278 Review [PABT
thinks it noteworthy that no such beliefs have been engendered
by the " overheated atmosphere of the revivals."
He suggests no explanation. Were I convinced of the
genuineness of levitation (as yet I am only inclined to believe
in that genuineness) I would tentatively point out that Pro-
testantism having severed itself from the Mediaeval Church
and adopted on so many points the exact contre-pied of the
doctrines of the latter, it is but natural that there may be
disseminated far and wide through the believing Protestant
masses a psychological unconscious something specially inhibiting
the production of such specifically mediaeval phenomena as
levitation and stigmatisation.^
P. 211. History repeats itself. In 1220, we are told, Hugh,
Bishop of Lincoln, learns that a nun lives at Leicester who
sustains her existence through the Eucharist alone : whereupon
he at once sends fifteen clericals to watch her during fifteen
days, without ever losing her from view. Put four Franciscan
nuns in the place of the fifteen clericals, and you have exactly
one of the most striking and best attested apparently super-
normal episodes connected with Therese Neumann and
Konnersreuth.
In a footnote on p. 236 it is stated (on the basis of
" private confidential statements to a friend who has repeated
them to M. Leroy) that Mr. Andrew Lang did not doubt
the authenticity of Joseph of Copertino's levitations.
On p. 269 it is asserted that, so far as the writer knows,
no mediumistic levitation of the human body has ever occurred
in full light. If by " mediumistic " levitations fakir levitations
are also meant, such a statement is incorrect, and I am not
sure that levitations in good light have never been attributed
to D. D. Home.2
As I said in the beginning of this review, the author reveals
his Roman Catholic convictions at the end of his book only,
^ On p. 57 a case of levitation is mentioned in connection with a
llussian (therefore non-Catholic) Saint : Seraphim of Sarov (nineteenth
century). I doubt if it is as well attested as we could desire.
^Cf., e.g., D. D. Home. His Life and Mission, p. 299: "It was asked
if the phenomena of levitation did not invariably occur in semi -darkness.
' No,' replied Lord Crawford . . ., 'I once saw Home in full light stand-
ing seventeen inches from the ground.' " Ed.
109] Review 279
and the reader must not be surprised therefore that to him
(M. Leroy) the mediumistic levitations (and presumably the
other Physical Phenomena too) should in the last analysis
be of diabolical (" demoniaque ") origin. Those of us who
like myself reject this hypothesis for one reason or another
have at their disposal, in my opinion, a very cogent argument.
Satan is considered by those who beUeve in him a very
powerful being. If so, why do experiments in Physical
Phenomena almost always fail whenever crucial tests are
applied ?
Before parting with M. Leroy's very remarkable work, I
wish to note the impression of the greatness of the Roman
Catholic Clhurch which emanates from his book. For no other
body has been able to produce in the sphere which here
interests us a mass of evidence so impressive and so volumi-
nous. Compared with the hagiographical material all the rest
dwindles into insignificance. Of course the sceptic is free
to point out that if the yogi-fakir confraternity had possessed
the same powerful and systematic organisation and the same
resources material and moral, they might have produced results
equally striking and imposing ! Still we must count with
facts as they are, not as they might have been.
Peeovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
SOME AUTOMATIC SCRIPTS PURPORTING TO BE
INSPIRED BY MARGARET VELEY, POET AND
NOVELIST (1843-1887).
PART I.
By W. H. SALTER.
During the year 1927 and the early part of 1928 two
members of the Society, Miss Margaret Hunt and Mr. F.,^
writing automatically in conjunction, produced a number of
scripts containing what purport to be communications
from "Margaret Veley." There was a real person called
Margaret Veley (pronounced Velly), who was born in 1843
and died in 1887, and who wrote poems and novels.
The scripts consist partly of verse and partly of state-
ments as to her ancestry, relatives and friends, and as to
incidents of her life.
This is not Mr. F.'s first experience in automatic writing.
He is the " Mr. V." of the Oscar Wilde scripts, printed
in the Occult Review for 1923. A little later he and my
wife (Mrs. Salter) had a few sittings together for automatic
writing, at which some verse was produced quite unlike
the automatic scripts my wife produces by herself, of
which numerous examples have already been printed in
oar Proceedings. No claim was made as regards author-
ship in the scripts produced jointly by Mr. V. and my
wife.
^ The real names of the automatists were given at a meeting of the
Society on the 24th October, 1928, when part of this paper was read-
While they have no objection to their identity being disclosed to
their fellow-members, they consider that they might suffer professionally
if the fact of their practising automatic writing were made known to
the general public. Mr. V., it may be stated, has no connection with
the Veley family. His pseudonym, as appears from the next para-
graph, was established in 1923.
T
282 W. H. Salter. [part
In the sittings with Miss Hunt Mr. V. held the pencil,
and Miss Hunt held his hand. If she removed her hand
the writing at once stopped.
It seems clear, as regards the sittings both with my
wife and Miss Hunt, that Mr. V. is the "predominant
partner." Mr. V. can indeed write automatically by himself,
but only slowly and with difficulty. The presence of a
second person seems to remove an inhibition, and enable
him to write with great fluency. The personality of the
assistant automatist seems also to influence to some extent
the contents of the scripts (see further Mr. V.'s statement,
p. 333).
The difference between the cases of Oscar Wilde and
Margaret Veley is obvious. Every fairly well-informed
person has some knowledge of Oscar Wilde's life, and
some familiarity with his literary style. Of Margaret
Veley and her works few people nowadays have even
heard, although she was a person of some note in her
own generation.
Mr. V. informs me that he knew nothing whatever
about her, when the scripts began, beyond having seen
her name in an old volume of Harjoer's Magazine for
1881 (see his statement, p. 331, below).
I confess my complete ignorance of her imtil recently.
After several of the scripts had been written Mr. V.
asked me to look into the case. I did not then know
whether she was a real or a mythical personage, but on
consulting at home the Index to the Dictionary of National
Biography I found the following entry :
Veley, Margaret (1843-1887), novelist and poet : began
to publish, 1870; issued 'For Percival,' her best novel,
1878. .
The D.N.B. itself gives a fairly full biography and
mentions the volume of her verse, A Marriage of Shadows,
published posthumously with a long biographical preface by
Leslie Stephen. From these two books, anyone with a
ticket for the British Museum Reading Room and a spare
hour can learn a great deal about her, from the foreign
nationality of her grandfather to the name of her favourite
no] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 283
cat. There is a short notice of her in AUibone's Dictionary
of English Literature, but this adds nothing to what is
said in the D.N.B. Mr. George Moore in his Confessions
of a Young Man (1926 Edn., pp. 169, 170) speaks of his
friendship with her, and her death.
During the course of my enquiries I was fortunate
enough to get into touch with several relatives of Margaret
Veley, and friends of her family, to all of whom I wish to
express my most cordial thanks for the help they have
given. My obligation to them is increased by the fact
that, as they have very frankly said, they dislike any
canvassing of the possibility of their dead kinswoman and
friend having "communicated" through perfect strangers.
This is a feeling with which many will sympathise, but
cases of supposed " communication " arise without our
seeking them, and when they arise our Society has a duty
to investigate them.
Fortunately in the present case there is no question of
disclosing matters which should be kept private : there is
nothing particularly intimate in the statements made in
the scripts, and very little which has not already been
recorded in print elsewhere.
The scripts may therefore be discussed without any
disrespect to Margaret Veley's memory. Perhaps the
discussion may help to revive interest in the works of a
charming but now neglected writer.
In the first part of this paper I shall set out the scripts
in fuU,^ omitting the script verses, which can be de-
tached without injury to their context ; Mr. V. has in-
corporated what he considers the best of these verses
in Part II. of this paper. In a parallel column will be
shown how far the statements in the scripts can be
verified, and the source of verification. At the end of
^ To avoid tediousness I have abbreviated the scripts shghtly in places
where the " communicator " makes several shots at getting a name :
in most cases the fact that abbreviation has been made is noted in
brackets. I have also omitted one short passage in which the " com-
municator " makes a comment which might be offensive to persons now
living. Where no other source of verification is stated—in the second
column headed "Comment"—the source is one or other of the relatives
and friends of Margaret Veley who have kindly given me information.
284 W. H. Salter. [part
this part I shall discuss briefly two possible hypotheses
as to the origin of the scripts, on which, as the investi-
gator, I ought to state my own opinion.
But the more complete discussion of possible hypotheses
will be left to Mr. V. in the second part of the paper,
where he will also compare the hterary style of the scripts
with that of Margaret Veley's published works. In view
of Mr. F.'s great experience in psychical research, and
his wide knowledge of literature, there is no one better
fitted to undertake this task.
[Abbbeviations.—D.N.B. = Dictionary of Natioyial Biography. M.S.=
A Marriage of Shadows. P. M.iS. = Preface to that book. Miss H. =ikfiss
Hunt. M. V. =the ostensible " communicator " : the use of the initials
M. V. is not intended to imply that the " communicator " either is or
is not identical with the Margaret Veley who died in 1887. Where the
latter is referred to her full name is used. The pseudonyms of the
automatists are printed in italics. Words in the first column printed
in italics or capitals, represent words underlined in the original scripts.
The questions put by Miss Hunt were, except where otherwise stated,
put by her on her own initiative, and were of course in all cases put
by her without previovis consultation with Mr. F.]
1. Sitting 23rd May, 1927.
Scri2:>t.
(After a poem of forty lines
signed indistinctly " Margaret
Veley ") M . . . M . . . M V . . .
V . . . M . . .
(Miss H.) Who is it please
who is writing all this ?
M. Margaret V . . . Enquire
there's no more power
—
(1) I wrote poems and a
novel or two. M. Veley (name
indistinct) Goodnight. No
more power.
Comment.
(1) In addition to the poems
collected in the M.S. Margaret
Veley wrote three aovels, and
some shorter stories ; see notes
8, 43-46.
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 285
2. Sitting 12th
Script.
(2) Time brings to us at last
The starry silence of eter-
nity-
Be patient to the end and
the little western flower—once
white as milk now purple with
love's wounds.
Show this to Piddington
—
more to come.
(Miss H.) Who is writing
this ?
One of a group which is work-
ing through others—the whole
yet is not given but send to P.
Chide, chide not the daughters
of the day. Too soon will
come what we hope or fear.
More will be given through
another. Only have patience
—-There is no discharge from
our long wars—this will help,
(a pause)
Margaret Veley is here.
(A poem of twenty-eight lines
follows, with a direction to
correct one line.)
(3) These verses occurred to
me through your showing (Mr.
V.) the rose just now. M. V.
(Miss H.) Can you tell us
something about yourself ?
My life was uneventful.
(4) I waf the second of 4
sisters,
(5) and we lived for the
earlier part of our lives in a
little place called Braintree and
July, 1927.
Comment.
(2) It would seem that these
lines do not claim to be original
verse by M. V., but, as the
reference to Mr. Piddington
shows, an attempt (which is not
followed up) at a " cross-corres-
pondence." The original source
(if any) of some of the lines
I cannot trace. " The little
western flower . . . wounds " is
a quotation (not quite exact)
from the Midsummer Night's
Dream, and " There is no dis-
charge from our long wars
"
may be an allusion to the re-
frain of Kipling's Boots (The
Five Nations).
(3) Mr. V. notes that before
the writing commenced Miss H.
had shown him a rambler rose.
(4) Correct. Described as
2nd daughter in D.N.B. ; names
of other sisters in P. M.S.
(5) Correct ; see D.N.B. and
P.M.S ;
" moved to London in
1880," D.N.B.
286
(6) at Braintree I was buried.
(7) I wrote poetry or verses
from a child—and
—
(Miss H.) What are you do-
ing now ?
I am in a happy place but
it's all confused when I come
-back into your world. To come
back into your state one enters
oblivion.
(Miss H.) Are you happy to
come back ?
Yes I am very happy to be
able to indulge again in my old
favourite pastime of verse
-
making. I did little else in life
except write a few novels.
(8) One was called Damocles.
(9) I knew French rather well
and that was a hobby of mine.
(10) Also gardening gave me
great fun.
(11) I was never married
(12) but came to live in Lon-
don with my mother after a time.
(Miss H.) Could you write
us anything in French ?
Aujourdhui c'est un peu dif-
ficile j'ai oublie presque tout.
[part
(6) Correct ; D.N.B.
(7)
" began early to write
both prose and verse," D.N.B.
(8) Correct. Damocles ap-
peared in serial form anony-
mously in the Cornhill (1882)
and was published in book form
the same year. It was not her
first novel, but is the first
named in the British Museum
Catalogue. It is mentioned in
D.N.B.
(9) Correct. "She and her
sister competed in composition
prizes offered by a French edu-
cational journal." P.M.S.
(10) Correct. See letter of
hers printed in P.M.S. ;
and
also p., 350 post.
(11) Correct : D.N.B.
(12) Correct : see (5). Her
mother dedicated the M.S. from
a London address. See also (66).
W. H. Salter.
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 287
(Miss H.) Well, it is a plea-
sure for us your coming to talk.
Cela me fait, moi aussi, un
grand plaisir. Voulez-vous
m'interroger ?
(Miss H.) Have you brought
anyone with you to-night ?
Non ! mais ma mere etait
ici la derni^re fois que je suis
venue vous voir.
(Miss H.) Are you interested
to come ?
Je suis trha interessee. It is
far better than to try to make
one's presence felt through an
ordinary medium.
(Miss H.) Have you ever
communicated' before through
a medium ?
(13) Yes, many years ago.
I was present at a seance and
tried to make myself known
but the people present did not
take the trouble to make any
enquiries although I gave them
my name.
(14) I died in 1887 or there-
abouts—perhaps a bit later.
(15) (MissH.) Have you any
friends living with whom we
could communicate ?
Most of my friends are now
gone from the earth.
(Miss H.) You will perhaps
be able to give us their names
another time ?
(16) Yes. I was introduced
to a few of the literary people
of the day but I was, I'm
afraid
(13) Unverified.
(14) 1887 is correct. E-tact
date 7th December : D.N.B.
(15) Although the scripts,
neither here not later, mention
any friend of Margaret Veley's
as being still alive, two at least
of her most intimate friends are
still living, Mrs. lonides and
Mr. George Moore ; see later
comments as to them.
(16) Correct ; her friends in-
cluded Leslie Stephen and Mr.
Moore.
288 W. H. Salter. [part
(17) rather shy and diffident.
(Miss H.) How did you get
here to us ?
I suddenly woke up and
found myself here. I didn't
choose to come but I found as if
I had some vague sort of control
over your brains and some of the
things I thought of were written.
3. Sitting 20th
Script.
Margaret is glad to be able to
speak a little again to-night.
(There follow twenty-four
lines of verse signed " Margaret
Veley," and then an interval.)
(18) Margaret Veley. In this
late garden of my mind a few
memories still remain standing
like bedraggled chrysanthemums
in winter hedged round by a
wilderness of thoughts that I
can hardly recognise to be my
own.
(19) Scenes flit before my
mind's eye —some from my
own life and others that I feel
to be experiences I have never
lived, but belong to that larger
envelopping life of which I am
but an infinitesimal fraction.
(20) So I see myself in a
London drawing-room with my
sister Connie—so soon to be
taken from me. and there
(21) surrounded by Burne-
Jones' pictures.
(17) Correct: D.N.B.
July, 1927.
Comment.
(18) A Garden of Memories
was the name of one of her
short stories, printed in the
English Illustrated Magazine,
1885-1886, and subsequently
published with two others in
book form (1887).
(19 This is an appropriate
introduction to a group of
episodes some of which occur-
red in Margaret Veley's life and
others long after her death.
(20) Correct as to sister's
name and early death (1885) ;
see P. M.S. Incorrect so far
as it suggests that this sister
visited Mrs. lonides : so the
latter informs me.
(21) An exaggeration : there
was only one Burne-Jones pic-
ture in the house.
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 289
(22) My friend Elfrida sits
knitting while Luke her husband
is reading the Spectator.
(23) Then the scene changes
and I am on a boat—not a
house boat but one of your real
old Thames barges which is
fitted up inside as a house—
a
long saloon with hanging lamp
and old china and books—Oh !
surely I was never there ! and
yet it all connects up with the
London drawing-room in some
way that I don't understand I
—
I can't get it—I have forgotten.
(Miss H.) Can't you try to
remember the name ?
Yes—I will try
—
(24) Luke was the brother
of the man who left all the
Watts so I have heard. He had
a fine collection of pictures of
all sorts, especially of the Pre-
Raphaelite group.
(22) The names " Elfrida
"
and " Luke " are correct.
Luke's name occurs in P.M.8.
and Elfrida's in the dedication
to Margaret Veley 's novel Mit-
chelhurst Place. Mr. Luke
lonides habitually read the
Spectator, in which Margaret
Veley's first poetry appeared,
but Mrs. lonides was not given
to knitting : information given
by Mrs. lonides.
(23) Mr. Cyril lonides, a son
of Mr. Luke lonides, bought a
Thames barge long after Mar-
garet Veley's death, and fitted
it up as a house for himself and
his family. Mr. V. tells me he
had seen the barge, when it
visited one of the Essex creeks
near his own home, and had met
Mr. Cyril lonides. He had also
seen Mr. Luke lonides without
knowing who he was : see his
statement later, p. 358. Mr. V.
also called my attention to the
book {Our Floating Home, 1918)
which Mr. Cyril lonides wrote
about this barge.
(24) The full name lonides is
never given in the scripts : the
initial I is given later. Mr.
Luke lonides' brother, Con-
stantine (died 1900), left the
' lonides Collection " of pictures,
now in the South Kensington
Museum. The collection in-
cludes pictures by Watts, Burne-
Jones and other contemporary
artists and also some Old Masters.
290 W. H. Salter. [part
(25) One shows Luke and his
father—all the I family.
(Miss H.) Do you know
where they are now ?
I don't know what has hap-
pened to them.
(26) Elfrida I—I I do not
know if any of Luke's family
are still living or where they
are.
It was a large and wonderful
collection.
(Miss H.) Can you tell the
—
My life was broken up when
poor Connie died. We had
hoped beyond hope.
(27) We took her to Switzer-
land but it was not to be. If
I had lived I felt I had it in
me to write so many fine novels.
(28) (Miss H.) Had you any
brothers ?
No brothers.
(29) My eldest sister was
AUce. She also is buried at
Braintree.
(30) My father was always
arguing over his old church
suits Veley versus — ? He
could never forget these things.
(25) A small picture by Watts 1
in this collection shows Mr.
Luke lonides' father and mother
with their children.
i
(26) Mrs. Luke lonides is, as
mentioned, still alive : see also
note (23).
(27) Correct: P.M.S.
(28) Correct.
(29) Name and place of burial
stated in P.M.S. Alice was how-
ever younger than Margaret
Veley : this may be inferred
from P.M.S.
(30) Margaret Veley's father
is described in the D.N.B. as a
" solicitor, mainly occupied with
ecclesiastical business
. '
' Neither
the D.N.B. nor P.M.S. mention
any particular litigation, but he
was, as churchwarden, one of
the Plaintiffs in what was one
of the most famous lawsuits of
the time, Veley v. Gosling, often
called " the Braintree Church-
rate Case." The events out of
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 291
(31) I wrote stories before
even I learned to write long-
hand. I remember I used to
print them.
(Writing stopped owing to
interruption.)
4. Sitting I2th
Script.
(32) A—M—the—the—M—
M
—-M Margaret Veley There is
some change X X Margaret
It is rather difficult to-night.
Almost impossible to write
poetry.
(33) The lady here is not in
good health and it would be
very difficult for your mind to
catch up with my thoughts
quickly enough.
(Miss H.) Which lady ?
The lady here
—
It is of no use my trying to
write verse for it would only be
spoilt. I must wait for a more
favourable occasion. Perhaps
you might like to ask me some
which this litigation arose occur-
red before Margaret Veley was
born, but the case was not finally
decided until 1853. The final
hearing before the House of
Lords is reported 4 House of
Lords Cases 679-814. The
plural " suits " is, I think,
accurate, as there seem to have
been other suits connected with
the main one. A report of the
case is indexed in the B.M. Cat-
alogue under the father's name.
(31) Unverified. P.M.S.
speaks of her handwriting as
being " as legible as print."
October, 1927.
Comment.
(32) This sitting was held at
a different place from the pre-
ceding ones.
(33) Miss Hunt, the only lady
present, was in fact in quite
good health.
292 W. H. Salter. [part
questions about my life and the
people I knew, etc. ?
(Miss H.) Could you give us
the names of some of the
people you knew ?
Names now are very difficult
but I might be able to get
through a few of my friends.
(34) There was—you might
enquire about it—if possible
—
a family who lived not in
Braintree but near Braintree
who (were) old friends of our
family. A Clergyman he was
and his daughter—0—Over
—
Over—Over
—
Thomas Over
—
Over—Thomas Over—THOMAS
OVERTON
O Overton and his daughter
at a place near Braintree
Black N ? Black Not—(re-
peated several times) Afraid I
can't get the last syllable but
Black Not.—will be near enough.
Near Braintree.
(35) Also I had a nephew-
lived at Braintree who was
called John John Edward H.
Homes Holmes. J. E. Holmes.
(36) He was the Captain of
the Braintree Cricket Club. My
sister's .son.
(Miss H.) Can you give me
name of sister ?
(37) Mrs. Edward Holmes, but
she was dead before I died.
Edward Holmes her husband.
Also some other minds come
to me in connection with
Braintree, they are not my
(34) The Rev. Thomas Over-
ton was the clergyman at Black
Notley (the name is given in
full later in the scripts). Black
Notley is very near Braintree.
He had two daughters and his
family were friends with the
Veleys. This information comes
to me from other friends of the
Veleys. I do not know of any
printed reference to this friend-
ship.
(35) Correct. See note (57)
on statements as to the Holmes
family.
(36) Correct, as I am informed
by friends. Presumably the
fact could also be verified from
old cricket annuals, but I have
not done this.
(37) Alice Veley married Mr.
Edward Holmes and died in
1877 : see P. M.S., where, how-
ever, her husband's Christian
name is not given ; see also
note (57).
Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 293
110]
own friends and I don't know
why I give them except that
they are the only ones left
in my mind.
(38) There was Bailey kept
a grocers shop in the old High
Street and
(39) Sp—Sp—Sp— Oh yes
the Preacher Spurgeon kept a
boot shop in Bank St. That's
all I can think of just now
—
it's very confused I know.
(40) I suppose I am very much
of a back number by now.
I often think of my 6 novels.
They must now be mouldering
in our national libraries with
the rest of the fruit of dead
men's brains. Do they ever
dust them I wonder ? No
doubt the worms have made
many a meal off the works of
M. Veley. What are the wild
worms saying Margaret ?
(41) However, as they must
have bored so many readers
it is only right that they in
turn should be bored also. Do
the little worms prefer our
old-fashioned paper to your
modern wood-pulp ?
(38) Correct. County Direc-
tories 1886 and 1890, i.e. after
Margaret Veley had left Brain-
tree (in 1880).
(39) "the Preacher " : these
words probably represent the
way the name Spurgeon is
arrived at, not a suggestion
(which would be ludicrous) that
the Rev. Chas. Haddon Spurgeon
kept the shop. There was a
bootshop in Bank St. kept by
a Spurgeon : see Directories,
1862-1886.
(40) " Back-number," as ap-
plied to a person, is, I think,
a piece of slang which was un-
known in Margaret Veley 's
day : see also note (88).
"Six novels" is correct if the
three short stories, published
together, are reckoned as novels :
see notes (18, 43-46).
(41) While Margaret Veley's
published works, especially her
poems, were serious and even
sombre, she was personally
cheerful and fond of jokes,
as appears from the P.M.S,
and the letters quoted there.
294 W. H. Salter. [part
5. Sittiyig 26th
Script.
M. Margaret Veley (some
illegible words followed by a
poem of thirty-three lines
signed " M. Veley ").
(42) It's really very difficult
to get any of my thoughts
expressed. Only the very
simple ones get shaped—the
more subtle ones simply don't
appear at all. This lady
doesn't easily allow my
thoughts to emerge to you.
All my sparks seem to faU
on her mind as on cold water.
It's (a) very curious thing to
explain. Her mind is like
the strainer of a whale's
throat—it only lets through
the small mental fry.
If I could only get my
thoughts direct to yourself it
would be easy for you quickly
take them up and shape them
but unfortunately you haven't
the peculiar psychic power
necessary and all has to be
transmitted through the lady
here.
Last time I did try to
impress your mind directly
and I think I succeeded to
some extent but it was harder
work than breaking stones.
(Miss H.) Is there any-
thing we can do to help ?
I have really nothing to
advise. I am only telling you
how things appear to me. I
October, 1927.
Comment.
(42) In view of M. V.'s com-
plaints as to Hiss Hunt being
a hindrance to good com-
munication, it is only fair to
Miss Htmt to state that she
has had considerable success
as a sitter with trance-mediums.
In this passage " you "
clearly means Mr. V., Miss H.
being " this lady."
110] Aidomatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 295
would use of my personal
preference 5-stressed lines and
try to impress these rhythms
on you but the thought that
gets through is so thin that
it would scarcely bear it—it
would sound absurd.
(Miss H.) Could (ilfr. F.) try
with someone else ?
You may of course try
—
Have you anything to ask me
to-night ?
(Miss H.) Could you give
us the names of any of your
novels ?
Yes I think I could but
wait a minute or two. (Pause).
(43) The best of my novels
I think was my earliest one
of For—For—For—For—P—P
—P—P—P—For Percy Per—
Percival. For Percival, that's
it.
(44) Then Damocles—I think
I gave you that before.
(45) Cousin Lizzie Cousin
Lizzy.
(46) Mitch Mitch Mitchl
Mitchel Mitchl Place Mitchel-
ham Place—not quite right.
Mitcheley Place No No No
MitchelAam Place INIitchel Place
—I can't get the last part of
the word. (PauSe.) Margaret
—Do you wish to ask me
anything more ?
(Miss H.) Name of first
school ?
(43) Correct. For Percival
appeared as an anonymous serial
in the Cornhill in 1877 and in
book form in 1878 : it was
her earliest novel, and is
described by the D.N.B. as
"her best and most success-
ful novel."
(44) See note (8).
(45) Lizzie's Bargain was one
of the three short stories.
(46) Mitchelhurst Place (see
note (22) ) first ran in Mac-
millan's Magazine, 1884, and
came out in book form the same
year : see D.N.B and B.M.
Catalogue.
296 W. H. Salter. [part
(47) Tufnel Tufnel Tufnell
Park Tufnell London.
(Miss H.) Was it a p(rivate)
school ?
No—a girls' college.
(Miss H.) What part of
London ?
West.
(Miss H.) Can you give the
name of headmistress ?
P. P. A. A. A An diff
An An Miss A Miss (word
illegible) I'm rather muddled
to-night. I was not at Queen's
College long. All my education
was at Brain tree previously to
that.
Next time I will try to get my
thoughts clearer about my early
days.
(Miss H.) Is there anything
we can do ? I am so sorry you
find it so difficult to impress
me.
I am not blaming you but
getting one's thoughts especially
poetical thoughts is very deli-
cate operation.
(Miss H.) I understand the
difficulties and can only give
you an assurance of our good-
will towards you and hope that
we can be of greater help next
time.
(47) D.N.B. says that Mar-
garet Veley " was educated at
home with the exception of one
term at Queen's College, Tufnell
Park."
6. Sitting 2nd November, 1927.
Script. Comment.
(Some incoherent writing.)
Margaret Margaret the con-
ditions are not good tonight
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 297
Everything is befogged, (poem
of twenty-four lines signed
" Margaret Veley ") You have
got my ideas but hardly the
form that I should have
given them. (Eight more lines
of verse signed " M. Veley.)
I really am not in the mood
for writing poems to-night.
The atmosphere is charged with
oppression. I feel strangled
in it.
(Miss H.) Shall we ask you
questions ?
Please try.
(48) (Miss H.) Could you
give us the C(hristian) name of
your father ?
I'm afraid I can't get it
just now. Wait a minute
A. Month of the year Do
you guess ? Month of the
year Hot time.
(Miss H.) June ?
No.
(Miss H.) July ?
No.
(Miss H.) August ?
Yes Augustus.
(49) (Miss H.) Name of your
mother ?
I'll try. Wait a minute. Do
give me another pencil please.
S. S. I've nearly got it. It's
like an article of furniture but
I can't think of the word.
Just guess.
(Miss H.) Sofa Sophy Sofie ?
First time Sophia.
(Miss H.) Could you give us
(48) The full name was
Augustus Charles Veley : see
D.N.B. and P.M.S. Note the
roundabout way by which
the name is approached, and
ultimately given, or part of it
given, not by M. V., but by 31iss
Hunt. The same procedure is
adopted with many other names,
Sophia, Stephen, Cunnington,
Hart, Rayne, etc.
(49) The mother was a Miss
Sophia Ludbey : see D.N.B.
The surname is given later in
the scripts : (113).
298 W. H. Salter. [PAET
any information about your
parents' relatives ?
What do you mean by rela-
tives ?
(50) My father had only one
brother who survived him. F
F Veley F. I think that's it
F F Veley Frederick Veley.
But there is another name in
between.
(Miss H.) Could you give
the other name ? If not now
perhaps later.
Hopeless now I'm afraid in
this state.
(51) My father was really of
French extraction but not a
Frenchman. My grandfather
was from the Continent Not
France Not France but French-
speaking place.
(MissH.) Could you name the
country ?
(52) Oh I have just thought
of something. I remember my
mother once sent me to Cox's
shop the druggist's and I broke
a big bottle on the floor. It was
when I was about 14.
(Miss H.) That fact would
be difficult to verify.
Only it was a strong smell
and made a great mess. It
just flashed into my mind.
I'm afraid it would be for the
man would not be there now
Cox. Cox.
(Miss H.) Could you give us
any further information about
the shop ?
(50) All correct, as I am in-
formed by a member of the
Veley family.
(51) P. M.S. says " Her father
.... was the eldest son of a
Monsieur de Veley who left
Switzerland for England about
the beginning of this \i.e. the
19th] century." M. V. specifies
Switzerland later : (59).
(52) This incident has not
been verified. There was a firm
of W. Cox & Co. who had a
shop in the High Street in 1859
when Margaret Veley was 16.
The firm do not appear (at least
under that name) in other Direc-
tories than that for 1859. For
information in the County
Directories as to Braintree
residents mentioned in the
scripts, see tabular statement
post, p. 328. I am indebted to
Mrs. Brackenbury for checking
the names and dates in the
Directories.
Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 299
110]
In High Street, Braintree.
(Miss H.) Number in High
St. ? Is the shop still there ?
Oh no it Tvas gone years and
years before D—D—D— I left
Braintree. He gave up the
business and someone else took
it on. D D. Suggest some-
thing. D. D. D. D. Suggest
something. It wasn't entirely
a druggist's shop. It was a
sort of general stores as well.
(Miss H.) Could you give the
name of an adjoining shop ?
It was next—Hopeless—Afraid
I know nothing about what
Braintree is now whether the
people are descendants of the
old shopkeepers or not—I just
thought of something else.
(53) My brother-in-law Teddy
(54) used to have a splendid
garden and hot-houses with
most choice flowers.
(Miss H.) What was his pro-
fession.
(55) Wait a minute Oh he
was a man of the law law
LAW A man who earned his
income by expounding the law
to people who paid him for it.
(Miss H.) Where ?
In Braintree and district.
(56) He was also very in-
terested in education.
(Miss H.) Was he a lecturer ?
Oh no, but he encouraged
(53) Mr. Edward Holmes.
The diminutive " Teddy " was,
I am told by a member of his
family, never used.
(54) He was a very keen
gardener and had large conserva-
tories . His garden was not large
but splendidly kept. Informa-
tion suppUed by a friend.
(55) He practised as a solicitor
at Braintree and lived at the
adjoining town of Booking : see
Directories.
(56) He was on the School
Board for several years from
1874 : see Directories. His name
appears (as Clerk to the Board)
300
education and young people's
clubs more especially.
(57) He was interested in the
Club.
(Miss H.) Could you name
any of the clubs or people who
were associated with him in the
work ?
Difficult but it was a sort of
place where young working
people of Braintree met in the
evenings and had recreation.
He was the—well not the head
of the Club but an important
man in connection with it.
(58) (Miss H.) Which sister
did he marry ?
He was the husband of my
sister Alice.
(59) Could you try and tell
us where your grajidfather came
from ?
A French-speaking country
but not France.
(Miss H.) Belgium ?
No.
(Miss H.) Switzerland ?
Yes. Yes.
(60) (Miss H.) What is the
name of the town ?
Could you suggest names ?
(Miss H.) Zurich ?
No.
(Miss H.) Geneva.
No—It's rather difficult, es-
pecially these complicated
names.
(Sitting ended by interruption.)
[part
on the foundation stone of the
Braintree Council Schools.
(57) "The late Mr. Holmes
came closely into touch with the
public as Secretary to the Liter-
ary and Mechanics' Institution,
a position which he held for a
number of years. . . . He re-
signed the secretaryship in 1899."
Extract from obituary notice in
Essex Weekly News, 29th Janu-
ary, 1909. Mr. V. may have
seen this notice, as he tells me
that this paper was taken in by
his parents from 1898-1914 :
this matter is discussed more
fully later.
(58) Mrs. Alice Holmes is men-
tioned in P.M.S. and, of course,
in her husband's obituary notice.
(59) See note (51). The
P.M.S. clearly indicates the
French-speaking part of Swit-
zerland.
(60) He came, I am told,
from Vevey. The fact is not
stated in D.N.B. or P.M.S.
It is curious that M. V. should
boggle at a name so like her
own.
W. H. Salter.
110] Autoynatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 301
7. Sitting 30th
Script.
M. M. M. Margaret Why
have you neglected me for so
long. It's so unfortunate I have
to begin all over again as it were.
Have you any more enquiries
to make ?
(Miss H.) Could you give
the name of the town where
your grandfather lived in Swit-
zerland ?
It's rather too difficult. Ask
me something else. I may be
able to get it later.
(Miss H.) Could you tell us
anything of your earlier life ?
(61) There's one thing comes
to my mind. We were coming
home from a concert at B B B
Black b (after several attempts)
Black Notley my sister Julie
and I and Miss
(62) T T T Miss T Ta Ta Ta
Tab—Do ask me Ta Tab Tab
Tab Miss Tab say something
Miss Tabor in the pony cart and
the pony walked right into a
pond near there up to its girth.
We were frightened.
(MissH.) Could you tell any-
thing more about the incident ?
Oh we daren't move for 5
minutes and luckily he decided
to walk quietly out again.
(Miss H.) It must have been
amusing.
Very exciting.
(Miss H.) That's a better
word.
November, 1927.
Comment.
(61) For Black Notley see
note (34). Julia was Margaret
Veley 's eldest sister.
(62) The Tabors are a well-
known Essex family. Some of
them lived at Rochford (where
Mr. V. lived as a boy) and also
near where he now lives. Others
lived at Braintree and Rayne
(about four miles from Brain-
tree). The Miss Tabor of this
incident was, as appears later,
of the Rayne branch. One of
the Braintree Tabors informs
me that the Veleys were friends
both of the Rayne and Brain-
tree Tabors, and that the inci-
dent, which cannot be verified,
might very well have happened.
There were two Miss Tabors (of
302
(Miss H.) Could you tell us
the name of any schools you
attended and if you won any
scholarships ?
(63) No. Once I won a prize
for a French essay.
(Miss H.) Where ?
In a competition Essay on
Victor Hugo.
(Miss H.) Where ?
It's very difficult now but it
was when I was quite young.
(Miss H.) What was the
name of the School ?
No school
(64) I was living at my
father's house at G G G Big
Great Great
(Miss H.) Great Square ?
Surely not.
Yes. My father's house in
Great Square, Braintree.
(Miss H.) Could you describe
the house ?
Nice garden.
Oh yes. Queen's College that
was the only school I ever
went to for about a session
—
(65) but before that I
attended Miss—Miss—boarding
school as a day visitor in Brain-
tree in Manor Street M Miss
Miss London Road Miss Give
me time Miss Day No not that
not that Miss It's clean gone.
(Miss H.) Was this the only
house you lived in ?
(66) The only house before my
mother and I came to London
and then of course we lived
[part
Rayne) a few years older than
Margaret Veley : see also (96).
(63) See note (9) ; the pas-
sage there quoted from P. M.S.
continues "although she won no
prizes she received honourable
mention." This is, I think, the
only case where the scripts defi-
nitely contradict either P.M.S.
or the D.N.B. ;
see, however,
note (29).
(64) Correct as to address of
father's house ; see Directories.
The garden is a large one in view
of its situation in the centre of
a town.
(65) There is a confusion here
between the school in London
Road, which was a boarding
school, and that in Manor Street,
which was a board school : see
Directories . The surname of the
mistress of the boarding school
is given correctly later (83).
(66) Margaret Veley and her
mother lived in London at
45 Matheson Road, Kensington,
W. H. Salter.
110] Automatic Scripts hy Margaret Veley. 303
in M M M You have this word
in your mind. [I abbreviate a
long passage the effect of which
is that the street was in Ken-
sington, and that Mr. V. was
connected with it, as he had sent
mathematical problems to a
lady who lived there.—W. H. S.]
(Miss H.) Could you give
the number ?
45 M 45 Ma Matthew not
quite that Math Maths Mathers
Matheston Matheston Road.
(Pause.)
(67) Miss Ann. Margaret Miss
Ann Margaret I am trying
to give the name of the lady
who kept the young ladies'
boarding school at Braintree in
London Road but it's the sur-
name that's difficult. Miss Ann
Miss her
—
and her mother dedicated M.S.
from that address. Mr. V. had
in fact sent mathematical prob-
lems to a lady living at another
number in the same road, about
eighteen years previously.
(67) No lady with the Chris-
tian names Ami or Margaret, or
either of them, appears in the
Directories as head of this school
between 1851 and 1890.
Up to this point I had allowed the scripts to take their
course, but now, at Mr. V.'s request, I decided to put
some questions. The questions to be put by me were on
each occasion placed in a sealed envelope given to Miss
Newton, and handed by her to Mr. V. or Miss Hunt as
immediately as practicable before the sitting at which they
were to be answered. At the date of the sitting next
recorded (7th December, 1927) I knew nothing about
Margaret Veley except what could be gathered from the
entry (already quoted) in the Index to the D.N.B. and
from the entries under the name Veley in the British
Museum Reading Room Catalogue. On the 9th December
I looked up her biography in the D.N.B. and read the
P.M.S. in the British Museum. A few weeks later I got
in touch with a friend of the family, and later with other
friends and members of the family : several of these
suggested questions on matters with which Margaret Veley
304 W. H. Salter. [part
was familiar during her life, but which were not, so far as
they knew, recorded in print.
8. Sitting 1th
Script.
M M M Margaret Veley.
(Miss H.) Can you answer
one or two questions ?
I will do my best but the
conditions are not very good.
(68) (Miss H.) Can you give
the name of any man of letters
interested in your poetry about
the time of your death ?
Names are very difficult but
I will try. It is a name very
like the Christian name of one of
my nephews. Would that help?
(Miss H.) Yes.
(69) Well please suggest the
name of my nephew then. I
don't mean Teddy's sons but
Constances only child S. S. S.
begins with S.
(70) (Miss H.) Sidney ?
No No It's It's a bible name.
(Miss H.) Samuel ?
No.
(Miss H.) Saul ?
No ! How absurd that is !
Try again.
(Miss H.) I'm a heathen.
I don't know my bible.
(71) One of the—You would
if you had lived in my genera-
tion. It was a man who was
stoned.
(Miss H.) Stephen ?
December, 1927.
Comment.
(68) Question put by me.
(69) Mr. Edward Holmes had
several sons : Mrs. Warner (Con-
stance) only one, Stephen.
(71) The Veleys were brought
up very religiously, but Margaret
Veley (as stated in P.M.8.) in
later life " reached conclusions
very different from those which
naturally found favour with the
home circle."
no] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 305
(72) YES. Stephens. Leslie
Stevens was the man. He
was a great friend of mine, but
of course there were others.
There was Mr. Mr. Luke Luke.
(Miss H.) Is that a Christian
or a surname ?
Christian name.
(Miss H.) Could you give the
surname ?
(73) I tried to do so before
but I don't think I succeeded.
(74) But this gentleman was
more interested in my novels
than in my poems. No one
thought very much of my
poems
(75)—not even the Review
—
Spectator. They said that the
note of melancholy was so pro-
nounced as to be monotonous
and no doubt they were right.
My poetry would only appeal
to a very few kindred spirits.
(76) (Miss H.) Can you give
any particulars about Mr. Luke's
life ?
He was the son of a con
—
help me please—a con—a person
(72) Leslie Stephen was the
answer which, if any, I antici-
pated ;
he is mentioned in
the B.M. Catalogue in connec-
tion with P.M.S. I did not
then know of the close friend-
ship with Mr. George Moore,
whose name would have been
an equally appropriate answer.
Mr. Moore is not mentioned in
the M.S. or D.N.B. ; nor
anywhere in the scripts, a
very curious omission. M.V.
erroneously adds an s to
Leslie Stephen's surname.
(73) See note (24).
(74) Mr. Luke lonides' friend-
ship arose out of his admiration
for the novel For Percival :
see P.M.S.
(75) This does not quite re-
present the Spectator's view ol
her poetry, as shown in the
review of the M.S. (28th July,
1888). This review calls her
" none the less a true humourist,
that her humour had frequently
a sad vein in it. . . . Miss Veley
if she had lived might have
surpassed greatly as a poet the
considerable reputation she had
made as a novelist."
(76) Mr. Luke lonides' father
started the " lonides Collec-
tion " to which Mr. Constantine
lonides added.
306 W. H. Salter. [part
who takes a great interest in
pictures.
(Miss H.) A connoisseur ?
Yes that's right. His father
was a Greek and very wealthy.
Have you any other question
to ask ?
(77) (MissH.) Youmentioned
your father having to do with a
law suit. Could you give the
names of any other parties
engaged in the suit ?
That is really extremely diffi-
cult because when my father
had these troubles I would
only be about 10 years old or
thereabouts and although I knew
he used to worry tremendously
about the Braintree Church
moneys I really couldn't attempt
to mention names at this point
of time.
(78) It would be about when
Mr. Brown was rector.
(79) (Miss H.) When did
your father die ?
When I was about When I
was about thirty-six or there-
abouts. 36 perhaps.
(80) (Miss H.) Had he dis-
continued his practice at the
time he died 1
Oh no ! he had retired for
some time before his death.
There was
—
(Miss H.) Can you give any
other name associated with
your father or yourself ?
(77) Question put by me. See
note (30). Margaret Veley was
in fact ten when the case was
decided by the House of Lords.
(78) Mr. Brown was vicar (not
rector) ; see tablet in Braintree
Church, also Directories, 1855-
1862.
(79) The father died in 1879
(D.N.B.) when Margaret Veley
was 36.
(80) From the Latv List,
1876-1879, it appears that he
retired from the firm (Veley
and Cunnington) in 1876 but
continued to take out a
practising certificate till the
vear of his death.
110]
(81) Mr. C. C. C. Suggest
something please Mr. C
—
(Miss H. suggests various sur-
names in C all of which M.V.
rejects. M.V. then says)
Oh, when a fox is very sly
what do you call it ?
(Miss H.) Cunning ?
Cunnington. Mr. Cunnington
was a close friend of ours—of
all our family.
(Miss H.) What was his pro-
fession ?
A man of the law !
(Miss H.) Was he associated
with your father ?
Oh yes : he was in close
touch with my father's business
at Braintree.
(Miss H.) Could you give
names of any eminent men or
women interested in your poems
or novels ?
Names are so difficult.
(Miss H.) Any names con-
nected with your father's busi-
ness ?
They were all in connection
with the clergy.
(Miss H.) Then could you
give the name of the clergyman
at Braintree 1
(82) What time ? There were
several rectors there. There
was Mr. C. C. C. Can you help
and please do exchange this
wretched pencil.
(Miss H.) Yes. (Exchanges
pencil.)
(Miss H.) Cormick 1
307
(81) Mr. Augustus Cunning-
ton was a solicitor at Braintree,
and is of course mentioned as
such in the Directories. He
was a close friend of all the Veley
family and in close touch with
Mr. Veley's business ; but this
understates the position to a
degree which almost amounts
to mis-statement. He was Mr.
Veley's first cousin and his
partner ;
Margaret Veley always
called him " Cousin Gus."
(82) See note (78) as to mis-
take between rector and vicar.
Mr. Cartwright's name appears
in the Directories 1866-1878.
He succeeded Mr. Brown.
Automatic Scri'pts hy Margaret Veley.
308 W. H. Salter. [PABT
No. I think it had to do with
a kind of blacksmith. A sort
of blacksmith who has to do
with wheels.
(Miss H.) Carter ?
Not quite but very HOT
Cart—Cart—Cart—but some-
thing else.
(Miss H.) Cartwright ?
Yes. Caetwright.
(Miss H.) You do tax my
imagination.
I can't help it. I don't do
it to mystify you.
(Miss H.) I'm sure you don't.
(83) There was a name I was
trying to give you last time
about the boarding-school.
(Miss H.) Yes I remember.
I attended as a day visitor,
in Braintree. Miss—Miss—It's
to do with love. What we
love with.
(Miss H.) Heart ?
Yes but Hart. Miss M. M. Mar-
garet No Mary Hart Mary Hart.
(84) I learned drawing there
and painting.
(Miss H.) Did you ever ex-
hibit any of your work ?
Oh dear no ! Only as a very
inefficient amateur.
Have you any more ques-
tions ?
(Miss H. repeats question 77.)
Its so difficult—asking for
all these names. They tax me
to the uttermost.
(Miss H.) Would you like
to write poetry ?
(83) The full name was Cath-
erine Mary Hart : see Directory,
1851.
(84) I am informed that Mar-
garet Veley never attempted to
draw or paint, and that there
was nowhere in Braintree where
she could have acquired these
accomplishments
.
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 309
I'm afraid there isn"t much
power left to-night. You ought
always to begin with the poetry
but when you set your minds
on getting facts the poetry
becomes impossible.
(Miss H.) Forgive us for
being so trying. We are so
interested and anxious to obtain
data of evidential value.
Oh, I quite realise that. I
will try !
(Miss H.) Next time we will
begin with a poem, then finish
up with hard facts.
Yes, that will be the best.
9. Sitting 22nd
Script.
M. M. M. Margaret Veley is
here.
(Forty-two lines of verse
signed " M. Veley.")
Have you any enquiries to
make ?
(85) (Miss H.) Yes, some
posers.
I hope 3'ou may get answers.
(]\Iiss H.) What associations
have you with Amaranth and
Moly ?
Wait a moment. Amaranth
and Moly.
(86) I rather remember I once
thought these were very romantic
blooms and then one day I
happened to read somewhere
December, 1927.
Comment.
(85) The three questions at
this sitting were all put by me.
The answers are all to be found
in P.M.S. I wished to test how
far M. V.'s knowledge, which the
earlier scripts had shown to be
very full as regards the more
important biographical facts set
out in P.M.S., extended to the
more trivial details also to be
found there.
(86) This agrees with a letter
of Margaret Veley quoted in
P.M.S. ; see also p. 349 post.
310 W. H. Salter. [PAET
that Moly was a kind of wild
garlic ! and that simply dis-
pelled all the Romance.
(Miss H.) Yes quite. Shall
I ask the second question ?
Yes, do please.
(87) (Miss H.) Have you any
special associations, and if so
what, with Zoroaster ?
Please say it again, or rather
spell it please.
(Miss H.) ZOROASTER.
Oh ! rather ! it was the name
of my FAVOUEITE CAT !
A CAT !
(Miss H.) Oh !
Pussy-cat.
(88) (Miss H.) Have you any
special associations with Christ-
mas, and if so what ?
I suppose no more than the
great majority of rather dull
respectable Britishers.
(Miss H.) But no special
associations ?
Of course it was always a
rather busy time sending out
cards to one's friends. I can't
think of anything very special
about it.
(Miss H.) Could you give
us further data about your
life ?
It is really rather difficult
because there isn't much power.
Wait a little while.
(Interval of eight minutes
followed by " Margaret " and
thirty-six lines of verse, signed
"M. Veley.")
(87) There is also a letter
in P.M.S. about this cat. See
also note (103), and p. 350 post.
(88) As appears from P.M.8.
it was Margaret Veley 's custom
to send her friends Christmas
cards with original verses of her
own on the back, and two of
these poems are printed in M.S.
M.V., however, it would seem,
thinks only of the ordinary
Christmas card of commerce.
" Britisher " was in M.V.'s life-
time purely an Americanism.
110] Automatic Scripts hy Margaret Veley. 311
I'm afraid there isn't enough
power to go on.
(Miss H.) You have done
splendidly. Thank you for
coming.
Thank you. ;
10. Sitting 20th
Script.
(89) M. M. Margaret Veley
(an incomplete poem of nine
lines) Why have you changed
all the conditions ? It has
made things very difficult for
me. It's the sudden change
which upsets things and also
waiting so long. It's like begin-
ning all over again. I'm not
here so strong as I used to be.
If I went on with the poem it
would only be spoiled. Things
are very confused to-day.
(Miss H.) Is it too great a
strain to ask you to continue
writing 1
1 will try. Have you any-
thing to ask me ?
(90) (Miss H.) Who were the
originals of the two pastel por-
traits belonging to Mr. Veley ?
Belonging to my father ?
(Miss H.) I presume so.
I don't know which ones you
refer to.
(91) (Miss H.) What was the
name of your sister Alice's
second son, and what caused his
death ?
These names are so difficult.
January, 1928.
Comment.
(89) The four questions put
at this sitting were formulated
by a niece of Margaret Veley,
who considered that the answers
would certainly have been known
to Margaret Veley at the time
of her death. The questions
were sent to me in a sealed
envelope, so that I knew neither
the questions nor the answers :
I sealed this envelope in another
envelope and gave it to Miss
Newton.
The " change " complained of
was change of place for the
sitting.-
(90) The lady who framed the
questions informs me that the
portraits were valued heirlooms,
and that Margaret Veley during
her life would certainly have
known what portraits were
meant, and who the originals
were.
(91) It is correctly stated that
a son of Alice (Mrs. Holmes) was
named Bernard Willoughby and
that he survived Margaret Veley.
He is called " Bernard W." in
312
Wait a minute. B. B. Bernard
B. B. that is not all. Will-
Will
—
Bernard Willoughby but
he wasn't dead. I mean he
was living when I passed over.
(92) (Miss H.) Who was Mrs.
Fish ?
Mrs. Fish. I don't seem to
be able to remember anything
to-day. All seems a blank in
my mind.
(93) What was the name of
the gardener at " the Square
"
and also the old horse ?
I will try to get it. G. G. G.
Can you suggest a name begin-
ning with G ?
(Miss H. suggested several
names beginning with G, all of
which M. V. rejected, adding)
No most of the names you have
given I could picture as objects :
unless they come spontaneously
to me I can only get them when
I can picture some objects
which they suggest.
(Miss H.) Could you give the
name of the horse 1
You mean my father's horse ?
(Miss H.) Yes. (Pause.)
(Miss H.) Joe ?
No he was a shaggy old
horse. Abraham ! Abraham !
(Miss H.) Try to get the
gardener's name. (M. V. sug-
gests it had an A sound and
began with a P. and makes
various attempts).
[part
his father's obituary notice in
the Essex Weekly News ; see
note (57). This notice also men-
tions another son who died in
infancy, and was in fact the
second son, Bernard being the
third.
(92) Mrs. Fish was the family
nurse. After the days of her
nurse-hood were over she long
retained her connection with the
family, helping in arrangements
for parties, etc.
(93) The gardener was called
Simon and the horse Peter.
Simon was very much attached
to Margaret Veley, and made
every effort to have a dish of
gooseberries ready every year
for her birthday (12th May).
It is to be noted that M. V.,
although she fails to get either
name, correctly gives the horse
a biblical name.
W. H. Salter.
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 313
(Miss H.) Was it an English
name ?
Yes but not at all common.
All is confused to-day. I seem
to be losing hold on you. I'm
afraid I shall never succeed in
getting any names through to-
day.
(Miss H.) Would you rather
write a poem ?
That's very difficult too.
(A pause, followed by sixteen
lines of verse)
It's no use ;
things are hope-
less to-day.
(Miss H.) Shall we stop ?
Will you try to continue next
week ?
I think that will be best.
(A new communicator appears
for the first time who wishes to
be called " Mr. X. the un-
known"; he requests the auto-
matists not to ask his identity,
" for that is not important."
He writes about 130 lines of
verse, which is printed at the
end of Part II to show the
difference in style between it
and the M. V. verses. Miss H.
then says)
(94) Margaret Veley, will you (94) The questions (95, 97,
try to come ? 98) at this sitting were formu-
I am here but not very lated by Miss M. E. Tabor of
strong. I feel I am being ousted Braintree : see note (62). I
out as it were ; but have you knew the questions, but not the
anything to ask me ? answers.
11. Sitting \st February, 1928.
Script. Comment.
X
314
(95) (Miss H.) Which Miss
Tabor was in the pony cart with
you when the pony walked into
the pond, and where did she live ?
Mr. who ?
(Miss H.) Miss Tabor.
Oh yes. It was Miss Tabor
from R. R. R. Think of some-
thing. It's something common
from the sky.
(Miss H.) Rain ?
(96) Yes Rayne from Rayne
where Miss T. lived. Her father
and mother were dead. . Yes at
Rmjne.
(97) (Miss H.) Did your
brother-in-law (the husband of
Alice) marry again after your
death and if so whom 1
Yes he did marry, and before
my death. It's rather difficult
to get just now.
(98) (Miss H.) Try later.
Can you give the names of any
of your father's neighbours in
Great Square, Braintree 1
These names are rather diffi-
cult ; I will try.
(Miss H.) Yes. I know they
are.
There was a butcher Fairhead
Fairhead Fairhead but not
in Great Square.
(Miss H.) Is that the only
one you can remember 1
Its the only name that comes
into my mind just now.
[part
(95) Correct so far as it shows
knowledge that the Tabors of
Rayne and the Veleys were
friends : see (62).
(96) Two Miss Tabors of
Rayne survived their mother,
who, however, did not die till
1874 ; if the incident occurred
after that date it can hardly be
called an incident of Margaret
Veley's " earlier life " : see (62).
(97) Correct that this brother-
in-law, Edward Holmes, married
again in Margaret Veley's life.
M. V. volunteers further infor-
mation on the subject in the
script of 2nd March, 1928.
(98) Correct : see Directory
1874.
W. H. Salter.
110] Auto7natic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 315
(99) Oh ! Wait. There was
J. J. J. Jess—not Jesse no
Jesseps Jesseps and a
(100) man who worked in
leather Har—Harr—no not
quite Harrisen. I could get
them if you could try again.
(101) T. T. Till the cock
crows—cock crows. There's no
power for this kind of thing now.
(Miss H.) When would you
like to try again ?
Whenever you like.
(Miss H.) Next week ?
This week if you can.
(Miss H.) To-morrow ?
Yes.
(99) A family called Jessops
lived in the Great Square : see
Directory 1878.
(100) A Harrisson, leather
merchant, lived in the Great
Square, and is mentioned in
Directories 1851-1890.
(101) Apparently a punning
allusion to another Braintree
resident, Tilcock, who kept a
grocer's shop in the Great
Square : see Directories 1882,
1886.
12. Sitting 8th February, 1928.
Script . Comment.
M—M—M Margaret Veley I
am he(re) have no power. I am
getting too far away to write.
There are others who are barring
the way for me to come. I am
like a fading ghost.
(Miss H.) Can we do any-
thing for you ?
(102) I don't think you can. (102) Questions 103 and 108
I am only hanging on by a few suggested by Miss Cunnington,
threads as it were. Was there a daughter of Mr. Augustus
anything you wished to ask me? Cunnington already mentioned.
(103) (Miss H.) Who gave (103) The donor was in fact
you the cat Zoroaster ? Miss Cunnington.
It was a lady—but my mind
is all confused.
(Miss H.) Try later.
Mrs. Kate Mrs. Kate McQuoid
Mrs. Kate McQuoid the novelist
gave me the cat.
316 W. H. Salter. [part
Names are all hopeless now.
I am too far away.
(Miss H.) Could you write a
poem ?
Poetry—I leave that to others.
(Miss H.) Nonsense. Try.
I leave it to the gentleman
who came last week. Did he
think that stewed-up elabora-
tion a poem ? No I have been
ousted out and I shan't trouble
you again.
(Miss H.) Please don't desert
us. Do try !
It is impossible. I have no
hold on your minds now. I
feel myself miles away and it
seems absolutely impossible to
get any of my thoughts through
correctly. What you get are
stray thoughts which ought not
to appear at all.
(104) Tell my aunt Louisa
could —Aunt Louisa—it's hope-
less.
(Miss H.) How is it you
cannot answer these personal
questions ? . . . Camiot you
remember the details of your
father's house ?
I told you that names were
getting impossible. If you had
asked these things a month or
two ago I think I might have
answered them.
(Miss H.
) Cannot you describe
the interior of yourfather's house ?
(105) There were a lot of
clocks—but it's no use asking
me to describe my father's
(104) Margaret Veley had no
Aunt Louisa.
(105) There was no excep-
tional number of clocks in the
Veley house, I am told.
Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 317
110]
house because I simply can't
see it at all. If anything came
to me I would gladly tell it you
but the whole thing is at present
obliterated from my memory.
(106) (Miss H.) Can you tell
me anything about Mrs. Fish ?
(107) My mind is a blank.
You mean Mr. Tish who was on
the School-board. Mr. Fish on
the school-board.
(Miss H.) What was he on
the school board ?
Just an ordinary member.
(108) (Miss H.) Can you tell
me of Uncle Gus's children ?
How many boys and girls ?
The whole thing wakes no
recollection in me at all.
(Miss H.) Could you describe
your personal appearance ?
I have really forgotten. Could
you describe yours ?
(Miss H.) I think I might.
(109) I was dark and not
very tall. Not at all good-
looking.
(Miss H.) What colour your
eyes ?
Very dark brown.
(Miss H.) And your teeth ?
Rather small teeth. Quite
my own.
(Miss H.) You know we
doubt if you are Margaret Veley.
If you go on I shall soon
begin to doubt myself if I am
Margaret Veley. At present I
seem very shaky about my
(106) See note (92).
(107) I have not traced any
Mr. Fish who was a member of
the School-Board. There was,
however, a Mr. Fish who was
clerk to Edward Holmes, and is
mentioned in the Essex Weekly
News as attending Mr. Holmes'
funeral : and see note (56).
(108) I should more correctly
have said " Cousin Gus " : M. V.
shows no sign of knowing that
Mr. Cunnington, concerning
whom she has already volun-
teered some information (see 81)
is meant.
(109) This is considered by
Margaret Veley 's friends a mode-
rately good description. Mr.
George Moore, however, in the
passage from his Confessions
already mentioned, speaks of
her as tall. It is curious that
M. V. when speaking of her eyes
omits all reference to the fact
that Margaret Veley wore very
strong glasses ; her eyes were
grey not dark brown.
318 W. H. Salter. [part
identity. Certain scenes and
names come into my mind but
there are great gaps.
13. Sitting 2nd
Script.
(110) M. Margaret Veley.
There is something I was trying
to get through to you last time
or the time before. It was very
difficult. Something to do with
my brother-in-law Edward. A
name you asked for but I could
not get it then AAA Agnes
Agnes that is the name. But
there is something else—No
I'm afraid it's clean gone again
but try AGNES. It was in
answer to some question con-
cerned with my brother-in-law.
I am certain about Agnes but
I hoped to give the rest of it
but I'm a complete blank. . . .
(111) There was something else
I had in mind but I have never
been able to find conditions fav-
ourable enough to get it through.
About my other brother-in-law
—sister Constance's husband.
He was a man not connected
with the law like Edward but
his work was with building.
I can't get the right word but
it was in connection with plans
for building.
(Miss H.) Architect ?
Yes ! ! That's right : he was
an architect—not at Braintree
though.
(Miss H.) Where ?
March, 1928.
Comment.
(110) See (97). Mr. Edward
Holmes' second wife was Miss
Agnes Kate Day. She was
always called " Kate " or
" Kitty," never Agnes. In the
obituary notice in the Essex
Weekly News neither of her
Christian names are given.
(Ill) Constance's husband,
Mr. A. Warner, was an architect.
They lived in Regent's Park
Crescent until she went abroad
for her health.
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 319
The name would I am afraid
be difficult but it was certainly
in London. They lived in
London.
(Miss H.) What part ?
I should say North or perhaps
more west : a little north but
WEST. Could you suggest some
names ?
(Miss H. suggests various dis-
tricts, finally Marylebone.)
(112) Yes that's it near
THERE. But it was the street
I was trying to get that begins
with M. (Various attempts by
M. V. at Mont— : "It might be
the name of a person beginning
Mont Mont—" ; Miss H. suggests
Montgomery).
Yes, that is exactly right. I
used to go there very often
when Mother and I lived at
Kensington.
(Miss H.) Was there any-
thing of special interest in the
house 1
(113) Nothing very special.
There were one or two family
portraits of the L—L—Liid fami
LuDBY family belonging to my
sister Connie.
(Miss H.) Who was the
artist ?
Difficult to say P. P. P—
I
can't get it now (Pause). (Here
Mr. X. intervened and M. V.
disappeared so far as sittings
between Mr. V. and Miss H.
are concerned. This was their
last sitting. Mr. V. however
(112) No connection has been
traced between Margaret Veley
and Montgomery Street. When
Constance returned from abroad
(see last note) she lived in
Montagu Street, and died there.
Both Montgomery and Montagu
are, of course, personal names.
(113) For the name Ludby
(should be Ludbey) see note
(49). Constance did not in fact
have any of the Ludbey pictures.
The artist's name has not been
traced.
320 W. H. Salter. [PAR'I'
informs me that she has re-
appeared at sittings for auto-
matic writing he has since had
with another lady.)
It will be convenient at this stage to state the extent of
Mr. F.'s normal knowledge of the matters mentioned in
the scripts, up to the time the scripts came to an end.
Mr. V. was brought up at Rochford, about 20 miles
from Braintree, where he lived till he was twenty-four,
and he now lives near Southend, a few miles further away.
While at Rochford his parents took in the Essex Weekly
News, a local paper published at Chelmsford, which regu-
larly devotes a paragraph to Braintree news. Mr. V. was
in the habit of glancing through this paper, but does not
remember ever seeing in it any reference to any of the
matters mentioned in the scripts. The period his parents
took in the paper (1898 to 1914) was long after most of
the principal persons mentioned in the scripts were dead :
two such persons, however, died during this period,
Edward Holmes and Augustus Cunnington, and they
received obituary notices in this paper (see pp. 321-322 for
further discussion of this).
After Mr. V. had asked me to look into the scripts, but
before I had in fact made any enquiries, I put to him
the questions, which, with his answers to them, are set
out below ; his answers are dated 2nd November, 1927 ;
additions in square brackets are by me :
(1) Have you any normal Yes. After first sitting I
knowledge of anyone, living or found a poem by Margaret
dead, called Margaret Veley ? Veley in an old copy of Har-
n yes, give particulars. per's Magazine. [See further
statement on this, j). 331.]
(2) Do you know anyone else No.
of same surname ? H so, give
particulars.
(3) Have you ever lived or No.
stayed in Braintree ? If not, Harwich [about thirty-five
what is nearest place to Brain- miles away. Mr. V., of course,
tree you have stayed at ? excludes Rochford and his
110] Aut07natic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 321
present address both of which
I already knew.]
(4) How often, if at all, have Once in May 1916, en route to
(5) Have you ever been in No.
the church or churchyard there ?
(6) Do you know at all well No.
any people who now live or have
lived at Braintree.
It may be added that the same set of questions were at
the same time put to Miss Hunt, and each of them answered in
the negative. 3Iiss Hunt has no normal knowledge of the
matters referred to in the scripts.
Mr. V. had, as already stated, met Mr. Cyril lonides
and seen his barge ; he had also seen Mr. Luke lonides
but was not introduced and did not know who he was
(see Mr. V.'s further statement, p. 358). Mr. V. had
never seen the " lonides Collection " and did not know
what it contained.
Mr. V. had never seen the Marriage of Shadows. He
cannot recollect ever having seen the notice of Margaret
Veley in the D.N.B., but he cannot be positive that it,
or part of it, may not have caught his eye in looking up
some other reference in the same volume ; he cannot,
however, remember ever looking at that particular volume.
This, he assures me, was to the best of his recollection
the sum total of his normal knowledge until after the
scripts had ended.
In view of his having at one time seen the Essex Weekly
News, he and I agreed that, notwithstanding that the period
during which he read it w^as long after the deaths both of
Margaret Veley and of most of the other people mentioned
in the scripts, it would be w^ell to test how far the
information to be found in that paper tallied with the
statements in the scripts, e.g. concerning Edward Holmes
and his family, of whom much is said in the scripts and
practically nothing in the Marriage of Shadoivs or the other
you visited Braintree 1 Harwich my company disen-
trained at Braintree and I passed
a couple of hours there. ^
322 W. H. Salter. [part
printed sources from which I had checked the statements
in the scripts. We accordingly met at Chehnsford on the
3rd September, 1928, and went to the Essex Weekly News
office, where we looked up the files containing notices of
the deaths of Edward Holmes (1909) and Augu.stus Cunning-
ton (1902).
I am satisfied that these notices have no bearing on the
scripts. In the case of Edward Holmes, for instance,
mention is made of some facts also stated in the scripts,
e.g. his connection with the Literary and Mechanics'
Institution ; but the paper, while mentioning his interest
in the public gardens, says nothing about his own garden
and conserAratories about which the scripts are enthusiastic ;
moreover some interesting facts mentioned in the
paper, e.g. his connection with the Volunteer movement,
are not alluded to in the scripts. Incidentally, Margaret
Veley is not mentioned in the obituary.
In view of the very slight correspondence between the
scripts and the newspaper, as exemplified by these two
obituary notices, I did not think I was called upon to
hunt down all the possible Braintree references in all the
other issues (say 830) of this paper which Mr. V. may have
casually glanced at in his early youth.
On the same day we also visited Braintree and saw the
graves of the Veley family in the cemetery ; also the
church and the Great Square.
It will, I think, be generally agreed that the propor-
tion of success to failure, as regards matters outside the
admitted normal knowledge of the automatists, is unusually
high in these scripts, if they are compared with most
ostensibly spiritistic communications. The verifiable state-
ments (and the unverifiable residuum is very small) may be
classified under four heads, as follows :
(A) Statements, whether volunteered by M. V. or made
in reply to questions, which can be verified from the \
D.N.B. and the M.S.
(B) Statements, whether volunteered or in reply to
questions, which can be verified from matter scattered up
and down a considerable number of other books, e.g.
volumes of the County Directory.
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 323
(C) Statements volunteered as to matters which cannot
be verified from any printed source which I have been
able to trace.
^
(D) Statements in reply to cjuestions regarding matters
which cannot be verified from any such source.
The success is almost perfect under head (A) and the
failure almost complete under head (D). Under both
heads (B) and (C) there is a mixture of success and
failure, with the successes largely preponderating.
As already stated, Mr. V. is contributing a critical
discussion of the various hypotheses which may be framed
to cover the facts of the case, and I am more than
content to leave such a task in his very capable hands.
There are, however, two possible hypotheses on which, as
the verifier of the statements in the scripts, I ought to
say a few words.
The first possible hypothesis, and one that Mr. V.
^ I here set out a list of the printed sources I have consulted :
Index to D.N.B. : Title—Veley, Margaret.
D.N.B. : Titles—Veley, Margaret ;
lonides, Constantine.
A Marriage of Shadows (1888).
Confessions of a Young Man, George Moore (1926 Edn., pp. 169, 170).
Our Floating Home, Cyril lonides (1918).
Allibone's Dictionary of English Literature : Title—Veley, Margaret.
Times, 8th December, 1887. Obituary of Margaret Veley.
Essex Weekly News: 11th July, 1902, and 29th January, 1909;
Obituaries of Augustus Cunnington and Edward Holmes, and account of
the funeral' of the latter.
British Museum Reading Room Catalogue : Entries under name Veley.
Veley v. Gosling. 4 House of Lords Cases, 679-814.
Life and Letters of Leslie Stephen.
Spectator (1888) review of .4 Marriage of Shadows.
Athenaeum (1888) review of A Marriage of Shadows ; also (1887)
Obituary of Margaret Veley.
Saturday Review, vol. Ivi., review of A Marriage of Shadows.
County Directories for Essex 1851-1890, inclusive.
Law List, 1875-1880.
I have also glanced through all Margaret Veley's novels published in
book-form, and most of the periodicals {Harper's, Cornhill, Blackwood's,
Macmillaris, etc.) in which her poetry and novels first appeared, for the
period during which she was a contributor.
I cannot of course claim that this list covers all possible references to
matters mentioned in the scripts, and shall be greatly obliged if any
reader can suggest other printed sources of verification.
324 W. H. Salter. [part
would be the last person to wish to have shirked, is that
the scripts are a conscious and deliberate fake on his
part. That, I may say at once, is not my personal
opinion.
It has often been observed, but it is well from time
to time to emphasise the point, that in most mental
phenomena it is the bona fides of the medium or auto-
matist or percipient that really matters. In some of the
simpler forms of experiment in telepathy and clairvoyance
it is possible to exercise the same sort of control as can
be exercised at sittings for physical phenomena, but as
regards any more complex mental phenomena this is
impracticable. In cross-correspondences, for example, the
length of time over which the phenomena extend, and the
number of persons who, if their bona fides were not above
suspicion, would have to be regarded as potential con-
spirators, make impracticable that kind of control. All
proper precautions should of course be taken, as they are
in the case of the S.P.R. cross-correspondences, in the way
e.g. of getting original documents properly signed and
dated ; such precautions are an indispensable safeguard
against accidental mistakes arising from lapses of memory
or other like causes ; but unless there is an absolute
assurance on the point of character,^ all precautions how-
ever elaborate are a snare and a delusion, the more
elaborate the more delusive.
Mr. V. is known to all members of our Society, and
even outside the wide limits of our membership, as one
of the most active workers in the field of Psychical
Research. He is in addition personally well known to
many of us. Mrs. Sidgwick, who came into close touch
with him in connection with his " Oscar Wilde " scripts,
writes to me as follows :
I had the pleasure of making Mr. V.'s acquaintance
before you met him, I think. As you know, I reviewed in
Proceedings, vol. xxxiv, what had been published concerning
the Oscar Wilde script in which Mr. V. was one of the
^ The character of the observers and reporters is, needless to say,
equally roaterial with that of the medium or automatist.
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 325
automatists. It is, I think, one of the most curious and
interesting cases of automatic writing we have come across
in our investigations. While writing that review I had some
correspondence with Mr. V. and we had a very long con-
versation at the S.P.R. rooms, when he told me of various
curious impressions and experiences he had had. I formed
a high idea of his openmindedness, his really scientific
interest in the subject, his perception of what constituted
good evidence, and the trouble he was spontaneously
willing to take to make the evidence as good as possible.
I think all of our members who know him will agree
with me that he is not the sort of man deliberately to
fake phenomena, and, if this is a fake, it is a very elaborate
and ingenious one.^
Moreover, the internal evidence of the scripts corro-
borates the evidence from character. While it is true
that on the tvJiole the proportion of success to failure
decreases as the scripts pass from matters to be found in
easily accessible books into the region of intimate family
affairs, this is only a very rough statement of the case.
Attention has been called to several correct statements
which I cannot find on record in print, but have only been
able to verify by enquiries among friends and relatives of
the Veleys, who cannot suggest any printed sources of
verification other than those I have already consulted.
The second hypothesis is that the M. V. of the scripts
is the surviving personality of Margaret Veley who died
m 1887.
Among the many peculiarities of the present case, by no
means the least remarkable is that we have to do with
an ostensible communicator whose " communications " only
begin forty years after her death. " Communications
"
have indeed been received from persons of the remotest
antiquity, compared with some of whom Mrs. Piper's
" Moses of Old " is a mere parvenu, and some people, I
1 As Mr. V. queries the appropriateness of the word "ingenious"
(see p. 354 below) I should say that, on the hypothesis of conscious
fraud, which I do not hold, some of the lapses of memory seem to me
most artistic. An unskilful faker might, e.g. have made M. V. remember
the name of the Defendant in the great Church-rate lawsuit.
326 W. H. Salter. [part
suppose, take these things seriously. But such " communi-
cations " as afford any reasonable evidence for survival
usually purport to come from persons who begin to
" communicate " within a few years of their death. We
lack, therefore, any useful standard of comparison for the
Margaret Veley case.
In weighing the evidence for identity afforded by
" communications " from the recently dead, it is usual and
reasonable to make some allowance for difficulties of
communication ; an occasional mistake in matters of fact,
which the " communicator," if alive, would not have been
likely to make, may properly be disregarded. In the
M. V. case the lapse of forty years since death justifies
us in considerably enlarging this allowance. Margaret
Veley, if she had been alive when the scripts were written,
would have been eighty-four years old, and her memory
of her early life might be at fault on certain matters.
A very substantial allowance for error must therefore be
granted M. V.
The fact that M. V. under cross-examination, so to
speak, cannot remember the names of old family retainers
like Mrs. Fish and the gardener Simon, should not condemn
her off-hand, though many living people would probably
agree that these are the sort of things which stay longest
in the memory. We may even excuse lapses in state-
ments volunteered by M. V., e.g. that her sister Alice was
older than herself, when she was in fact younger. We
may strain a point and disregard M. V.'s cvirious inability
to draw the relevant connection between facts correctly
stated ; she remembers the cat Zoroaster ; she speaks of
Mr. Cunnington as a family friend ; she never at any time,
even when questioned as to who gave her the cat and as
to Mr. Cunnington's children, says " By the bye, Mr.
Cunnington was not only a friend, but a first cousin of my
father, and it was his daughter who gave me the cat."
But, after all such allowances have been made, the
onus of establishing identity rests with the " communi-
cator," whether recently dead, or dead for forty years, and
the question is, has M. V. discharged this onus ? Do the
statements in the scripts taken as a whole, and so far as
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 327
they go beyond the automatists' normal knowledge, suggest
a continuity of memory, without which the word " iden-
tity " would be meaningless ?
In my opinion they do not. The statements in the
script seem to me to consist of biographical dry bones, names
of relatives and neighbours, dates of deaths, etc. ; the sort
of thing that might be found in Who's Who. In addition,
there are a few more intimate details, either in their nature
unverifiable, like the pony (62) and druggist's shop (52)
incidents ; or all too easily verifiable from the biography in
A Marriage of Shadows, as e.g. the name of her cat.
Finally, there are a few statements which I have been
able to verify from information supplied by surviving
friends, but not otherwise. The proportion of these is,
however, very small. Let any of my readers of mature
years imagine himself giving reminiscences of the first
forty years of his life at the length M. V. has done, and
decide whether he would in his own case have left the
dry-bones of names, dates, etc., sticking out so nakedly.
The biographical matter in the scripts might, I think,
fairly be entitled " Margaret Veley and her circle seen from
the outside." A typical example of the failure to get an
inside view-point is provided by the usage of the scripts
as to diminutives of Christian names. M. V. calls her
brother-in-law, Edward Holmes, " Teddy," an abbrevia-
tion not in use in the family ; she calls his second wife
" Agnes " although she was always known as " Kate " or
" Kitty." Most surprising, she never uses the diminutive
" Meggie " by which Margaret Veley herself was always
known to her family and friends. This is all the more
striking as M. V. has, generally speaking, an easy way of
bringing out names which many otherwise successful
" communicators " might envy.
Then there is the curious omission of all reference to
Mr. George Moore, although more than once (see notes
15, 68, 72) questions were put to M. V. which might have
been expected to revive memories of him. The perfection
of her memory as to matters, sometimes very trivial
matters, stated in the D.N.B. and P.M.S., throws into
strong relief her silence as to a close friendship which
328 W. H. Salter. [part
RESIDENTS IN BRAINTREE (OTHER THAN
TIONED IN THE SCRIPTS, AND
Name, etc., in Script.
Entry in Directory
where differing fro7n
Script.
1851 1855
x>ciiicy, v,Tiout3i b biiop,
Old High Street.
opui^cOii, x>uot onop,
Bank Street.
lopuigcuii, vjreo.
[*From 1851-1859
iie iiaQ a snop, out)
not in Bank Street.] X* X*
Cox, Druggist and General
Stores, High Street.
W. Cox & Co.,
Druggists.
Brown, " Rector." Rev. J. D. Brown. X
v^artwiigni;, xvecijor. xiev. .L . jjj. oarTjwrignu.
Hart, Mary,
i>od/rciing-iociiooi.
Hart, Catherine Mary.
X
Fairhead, Butcher, not
in vjrreaL oijuare.
Bank Street.
Jesseps. (John .Tpssona Sur-
geon. Great Square.
Harrisen, " a man who
worked in leather."
Harrisson, Leather
Merchant. X X
"Till the Cock crows." John Tilcock, Grocer.
J
110] Automatic Scripts by Margaret Veley. 329
RELATIVES OF MARGARET VELEY) MEN-
IN THE COUNTY DIRECTORIES.
1859 1862 1866 1870 1874 1878 1882 1886 1890
X X
X* X X X X X X X
X
X X
X X X X
X
X X
X X X X X X X X X
X X
330 W. H. Salter. [part
does not happen to be alluded to in either of those
books.
Notwithstanding, therefore, the large number of correct
statements on matters outside the automatists' normal
knowledge, I do not think the present case a strong one
for inferring continuity of memory as between Margaret
Veley and M. V.
But personal identity, whatever definition the philosophers
may give to the words, is not in ordinary usage co-
extensive with continuity of memory. Every individual
has his own particular outlook on life and habits of thought,
which find their expression in various ways, readily recognis-
able to his friends, but it may be imperceptible to the
outside world. In considering trance-communications or
automatic writings it is customary to regard the presence
of this factor as good prima facie evidence of identity,
assuming of course that the characterisation goes beyond
the medium's or automatist's normal knowledge concerning
the " communicator." This is a point on which in the
present case only those who knew Margaret Veley per-
sonally are entitled to speak. This part of the paper
was shown in proof to two of Margaret Veley's relatives,
with a request that they would kindly express their
opinion on this point. One of them writes :
To a certain extent the Script falls in with my recol-
lections of my Cousin Margaret, especially in the early
jjarts. The touch of peevishness which appears later is
not like her. She was a very calm, well-balanced person,
who did not indulge in complainings, and it was impos-
sible to make her " cross."
Tlic other relative (a niece) writes :
I have read the M.V. Script through very carefully, and
coming fresh to it again it strikes me in the same way
as it (lid at first. In my opinion there is nothing in it
that recalls my Aunt in any way. In fact, it is all most
unlike her, in what is said and the way of saying it.
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 331
PART II.
By Mr. V.
THE LITERARY STYLE OF THE SCRIPTS.
Introduction.
When on 23rd May, 1927, I obtained by automatic writing a
little poem above the signature of " Margaret Veley " the
name seemed vaguely familiar. For some days I was at a
loss, and then, led no doubt by the half-conscious workings
of memory, I looked up an old volume of Harper's Monthly
Magazine for the year 1881 which had been in my family
for at least 20 years. In the poetry index I soon found
what I wanted. Opposite the name Margaret Veley was
the title of a poem called " Almond Blossom," which was
printed in the August number of the same volume and
illustrated by a full-page frontispiece depicting a youth
dressed like an admiral, walking with a liigh-waisted girl
in a wide-brimmed hat through a romantic wood. I had
probably read the poem on occasions previous to this, but
I cannot remember that it had ever excited in me any
special curiosity as to its author. It had struck me as
being careful, Avell-knit verse, better, in fact, than half the
loosely-constructed verse that is printed in magazines
to-day.
The real Margaret Veley, her biographer, Leslie Stephen,
tells us, took endless pains with her poetry, never resting
till she had found the word or epithet which exactly
matched the shade of her thought. Of the seven or eight
automatic poems signed Margaret Veley I estimate the
average rate of production to have been about three
octasyllabic lines a minute. Rarely, indeed, were there any
corrections, and these when they occurred never amounted
to more than the rectification of the obvious omission of
some single word. The verses, in fact, were written faster
than the average person would be able to transcribe them
332 Mr. V. [part
from a book. One cannot help wondering what Margaret
Veley, that careful rider of Pegasus, would have thought
if she could have had any premonition of this posthumous
bolt. Whether or not there was a preliminary stage of
subconscious gestation I am unable to say, but at least
one incident occurred which, though it does not prove, at
any rate suggests that certain of the poems may have been
spontaneous productions.
At the third sitting on 12th July, just before the
writing began, Miss Hunt took down from the mantel-
piece a flower-pot containing a species of pink rambler
rose. A few minutes later, without hesitation or pause,
" Margaret " wrote a poem about a rose that consisted of
fourteen rather carefully finished octasyllabic couplets.
This jDoem she declared had been suggested to her by the
sight of the rose. The verses are in the true sense of
the word " automatic " productions. They are not mere
transcriptions of words and imagery that well up rapidly
into the conscious mind. Nor, as in the case of Patience
Worth, are they written to the dictation of an imperious
inner voice. By concentrating my mind on some trivial
calculation I have learnt how to create a mental state of
intense distraction, and it is during the moments when my
mind is thus occupied that the writing is produced. The
moment my mind reverts to what my hand is supposed to
be doing the writing stops as suddenly as it commenced.
It is, however, impossible to maintain this mental attitude
of complete abstraction for more than a very few minutes
at a time, but a fresh effort of rapid concentration made at
the very moment when I feel my mind to be straying
back will often enable the state to be renewed and the
writing prolonged without noticeable interruption. In
order to aid concentration I invariably keep my eyes
closed while writing, and, if for no other reason than this,
the presence of a second person is always necessary to
guide my hand when it reaches the end of a line. I can,
indeed, obtain words and phrases of automatic writing when
absolutely alone, but the mere mechanical impediments
arising from the use of pencil and paper with eyes closed
are always sufficient to break up rapidly my mental
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 333
concentration. Sitting alone I have never been able to
produce anything so sustained as a poem or even an odd
stanza.
But there is no doubt in my mind that the person who
assists me in these automatic ventures of mine fulfils
more than a mere mechanical function. Between my
partner and myself I have never observed the kind of
telepathy that appears frequently to take place between
medium and sitter in spiritualistic seances, although I
have always been on the lookout for it. I have never
noticed that the intelligence writing through my hand
showed any knowledge of the secret thoughts of my
companion or even of the latent content of her mind.
My partners assure me that they can find no connection
between what is in their minds and what I write.
In spite of this I feel sure that the general tone of the
literary communications does depend in some subtle way
on the temperament and mental make-up of the person in
whose presence the writing is produced. The " Oscar
Wilde " who had been manifesting in the presence of
Mrs. Travers-Smith was not quite the same " Oscar
Wilde " as the one who turned up a few weeks later in
the company of Miss Helen McGregor. Not only did this
later " Wilde " talk about rather different things, but his
prose, while still highly characteristic, seemed to have
undergone a subtle change and to show signs of more
careful fabrication.
Even the handwriting suddenly altered, growing smaller
and more reminiscent of Wilde's fine Greek hand. [See
Psychic Science, January 1924.]
And the " Wilde " who appeared at the few sittings I
had with the lady I have called " Mrs. L." showed him-
self to be apter at repartee—in fact, more of a conver-
sationalist and less of an essayist than either of the other
two Wildes.
These differences might be partly accounted for by
autosuggestion, but I do not believe this to be the com-
plete explanation.
Not only does the second person appear to count for
something in the general tone of the communications but
334 Mr. V. [PART
I am conscious that in the presence of certain people I
should be inhibited from getting any automatic writing at
all. I hajopen to be peculiarly sensitive in other people
to what Prof. James called the " hidden wraith of per-
sonality " which lies beneath the exterior of each of us.
It is this Binnenleben or inner-feeling tone of which I
am most acutely conscious when I meet a person for the
first time and which impresses me more than either
manners or personal appearance. The thing may seem
absurd but I feel I must record it. I believe it is gener-
ally possible for me to judge beforehand of the hopefulness
or otherwise of attempting automatic writing with a
particular individual.
Margaret Veley's Verse.
Margaret Veley, one of our undeservedly forgotten lesser
poets, wrote verse during the 'seventies and the early and
middle 'eighties of last century. In 1888, the year after
her death, her collected poems appeared in a slender
volume entitled A Marriage of Shadows and Other Poems,
and they were introduced by an extraordinarily full and
detailed biography from the pen of Leslie Stephen, an
early editor of the Dictionary of National Biography and a
personal friezid of Miss Veley. Many of the poems had
been previously printed in magazines like Harper's New
Monthly and The Century.
Pervaded by a faint sophisticated melancholy, this verse
leaves one just a little too conscious of the labour that
must have gone to its making. But though the verse
shows signs of careful workmanship it is neither aifected
nor insincere. Like so many others who lived in the clos-
ing decades of the century Margaret Veley was profoundly
influenced by the disillusion, the religious doubt and loss
of simple faith that were natural consequences of the
new vistas opened up by science with regard to the pro-
bable evolution of Man's life on the planet.
Poetry for Margaret Veley was rather a stepping-stone
in her search for a personal philosophy than the medium
through which she could record the reactions of her spirit to
sensuous beauty. In her longer poems are many musings,
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 335
many tranquil meditations on death and human destiny.
And she put these preoccupations into verse that is some-
times as placid and unruffled as the mill-ponds that lie in
the quiet meadows around her Braintree home. But her
monodies on death are hardly ever morbid. She does not,
like Blair, see a churchyard and a delving sexton round
every corner, or like Maeterlinck scare herself into shudders
over the unknown terrors that may be lying in wait
outside the gates of life. She is much too sane for that.
She sees Death watching above the revelry of life, " sitting
with a quiet face " ; but being, like Keats' " Meg," brave
as " Margaret Queen," she greets Death, if not with a
smile, at least with a note of frank interrogation, and also
we may be sure with the politeness to be expected from a
Victorian gentlewoman.
But it seems she gets little change out of the old
fellow. It is Margaret Veley who does all the talking
;
and when she has finished, Death is still "sitting there
with the quiet face."
But her personal philosophy is a brave one, and in some
respects almost an anticipation of the one that Mr.
Bertrand Russell has given us in his fine essay, A Free
Man's Worship. Only there is more poetry in Mr. Russell's
essay than in Margaret Veley's verse. This is from A
Marriage of Shacloivs :
Must all our life be quenched ? It may be so.
It may be so. Yet can it change my cry ?
Let the last man be nobler far than I.
Though I am dead, though he shall surely die.
It may be so. Yet who can tell the height.
The joy, the white perfection of the light
He may attain before the coming night.
Who knows what clearer vision there shall be
In the great days that I shall never see ?
Shall not this hope be hope enough for me ?
Though there may be no personal immortality, though
even the race itself is doomed to perish in the eventual
night, she will continue to fling her challenge of life
triumphant into the face of Death,
336 Mr. V. [part
Yet will I scorn thee—scorn all craven fears,
Flinging on high my handful of salt tears,
To flash in lucid sunlight as I die,
And Death, if it be Death, will I defy.
[A Dream of Life and Death.]
But she reflects it is easy enough to keep up . one's
spirits when one is young, but how will it be when old
age comes on ? Will her faith stand the strain ?
But if I thus believe why fear old age ?
Why not pass boldly through the mocking mist
In full assurance of eternal youth
And of the final triumph of the sun ?
Ah ! but my faith is like the sun itself
—
No little talisman to have and hold
And grasp more tightly when the shadows come :
But a mysterious majesty of light
Across whose glory billows of black cloud
Drive and the sudden darkness is astir
With wavering of fantastic shajies of doubt.
Unto the very verge of death we go
With those who die. ...
And so there is a shadow on the end.
[A Shadow on the Dial.]
It was not Death itself but the Death in Life of old
age that Margaret Veley feared. But she need not have
worried. Whatever gods there be decreed that she should
be cut off in early middle age, actively engaged in her
last novel, which I believe was never published.
One could hardly expect a Margaret Veley, who had
survived Death for forty years to continue writing about
it in the same strain. Such a phenomenon if it occurred
would suggest the resuscitation of a past Margaret rather
than a Margaret who had actively survived and developed
in a new life.
It is perhaps just a little strange that nowhere in her
script does M. V. make the slightest reference to these old
preoccupations of her earthly life.
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 337
There is indeed one little poem on Death that occurs
in the automatic script, but this is written in a natura-
listic manner that is in no way reminiscent of any of the
real Margaret Veley's published verse. The verses that
follow were written on the 2nd November, 1927.
Come let us lay a wreath
On the quiet brows of Death. .
For Death no flowers hath
'
Nor any rose sweet-smelling ; .
Cold grief alone he hath
And tears beyond all telling. ,
So we'll build a rose-path
Right round the roof-garden
Of his lone damp dwelling.
Come let us pipe a song :
To cheer Death's way along ;
For Death no music hath
But the wind in the swathe ;
Or the quiet mossy tread
Of footsteps overhead.
O oft-times he
Has sorry company
When witless worms carouse
Within his silent house.
Death learns no news of Spring.
He knows not night from day.
So on his low door-sill
Let a kind wren sing
To while dark hours away.
I . (Signed) Margaret Veley.
Since much of the automatic verse is of the sort that is
commonly known to-day as " Nature Poetry " it will be
necessary for us to examine Margaret Veley's own attitude
towards Nature. I think I should be right in saying that
Margaret Veley never wrote verse for the sake of express-
ing her intimate feelings about landscaj)e. When she
wrote about Nature she did so in a way that was almost
conventional and always incidental to her true concerns
338 Mr. V. [part
which were human beings and their destiny. Tennyson
could write
" And only through the faded leaf
The chestnut pattering to the ground,"
and his disciple, Richard Dixon, of
" The diamond drip of a white wing upon
A lake struck dead with shadows,"
but Margaret Veley never saw Nature with this delicate
intensive observation. She was content to use the
language of the precursors of the Romantic Revival. The
" peaceful plains," " the everlasting hills," " the groves and
lawns," " the bowers," " the mossy fountains," " the
laughing rills," " the ripened grain "—all the well-worn
pieces of the pre-romantic currency are to be found in her
verse, and sometimes the old coins ring a little thin.
Here is a typical specimen :
A land of sunny turf and laughing rills,
A land of endless summer sweet with dew,
Girt with a range of everlasting hills
Asleep beneath a sky of Avhite and blue.
There with a silver flash mid grove and lawn
Like curving blades are thrust the narrow creeks,
And ocean breezes rise at dusk and dawn
With songs of freedom round the guardian peaks.
In sparkling air the poplars quiver high
In every thicket sing the birds unseen.
O'er sculptured walls beneath the glowing sky
Fruits cluster purple rijae and waters lie
Lucid in fountains rimmed with mossy green.
[The Level Larid.]
" Creeks like curving blades " is good, but " the guardian
peaks " seem to have been introduced into the landscape
because the creeks were already there and they afford an
obvious rhyme. Indeed, almost the whole of this passage
could be re-written in simple prose without very much loss
or gain in poetic quality. You do not make poetry by
ironing out rather commonplace observations into smooth
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 339
pentameters. When the diction is undistinguished, as it is
here, there must be some compensation in the way of
rhythmic life or metrical subtlety.
But in impassioned moments of melancholy meditation
Margaret Veley sometimes strikes on a fine image. Here
are six lines from " A Shadow on the Dial " that convey
the real thrill of poetry :
For Death is great, inscrutable, alone,
Common to all, but never commonplace.
It overhangs our dull and hackneyed lives
As the grey silence of an endless clifi
Sheer to the flood and towering to the sky
Defies and dominates a waste of waves.
Margaret Veley seems to have had a natural preference
for five-stressed lines, but she wrote also a certain amount
of hej)tasyliable verse in a distinct trochaic metre. All the
verse purporting to come from her spirit has either four
or three stresses to the line, and the metre is invariably
iambic.
Any notice of Margaret Veley's poetry would be incom-
plete without a quotation from her most remarkable effort,
" A Japanese Fan," first pubhshed in A Marriage of
Shadows. It is not a great poem or even a poem with
great moments ; but it is unlike anything else she ever
wrote, and it is instinct with such a vivid sense of
arrested life that as we read it to-day we feel as if the
passing moments of one thundery day in the 'seventies
had been caught and petrified for the inspection of some
later age. The poetic form is for Margaret Veley's day
unusual, and the free almost conversational rhythm serves
to sustain and accentuate the undertones of gentle but
grim irony that run beneath the forced vivacity. I quote
the first forty-four lines.
How time flies ! Have we been talking
For an hour 1
Have we been so long imprisoned
By the shower
In this old oak-panelled parlour ?
Is it noon ?
Mr. V.
Don't you think the rain is over
Rather soon 1
Since the heavy drops surprised us
And we fled
Here for shelter while it darkened
Overhead.
Since we leaned against the window
Saw the flash
Of the lightning, heard the rolling
Thundercrash ;
You have looked at all the treasures
Gathered here
Out of days and countries
Far and near ;
At those glasses thin as bubbles
Opal bright
At the carved and slender chessmen
Red and white,
At the long arra}' of china
Cups and jalates
—
Do you really understand them
Names and dates ?
At the tapestry where dingy
Shepherds stand
Holding grim and faded damsels
By the hand.
All the while my thoughts were busy
With the fan
Lying here, bamboo and paper
From Japan.
It is nothing ;
very common
Be it so.
Do you wonder why I prize it
Care to know ?
Shall I teach you all the meaning,
The romance,
Of the i^icture you are scorning
With a glance ?
no] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 341
COMPAEISON AVITH THE SCRIPT VeRSES.
To discover the essential differences in diction between
Margaret Veley's verse and tlie " spirit verse " we need
only contrast a few stanzas of Margaret Veley's " Spring
"
with the automatic poem " April Storm " written on
22nd December, 1927.
Here are the first three stanzas of " Spring," the work
of the real Margaret Veley :
Just a tiny blue-eyed maid
Newly out of Eden strayed ;
Lips a bud, rose-tinted rare
And the sunlight in her hair.
Here is Spring !
Leaves are few to make her bowers,
Bunches bright of leafless flowers
Are by baby fingers placed
Side by side in happy haste.
Little Spring !
Gardens dark with winter gloom
All at once begin to bloom,
Budding branches lifted high
Laugh and whisper in the sky.
Welcome Spring !
[From A Marriage of Shadoics.]
And here is the " spirit " poem, written in the presence
of Miss Hunt on 22nd December, 1927.
APRIL STORM.
Beneath this April storm Spring stirs
But hardly and with pain ;
Unwelcomed by the sun the buds
Break into green again.
Spring stirs, but earth lies wrapped about
With clouds and wmdy rain.
These are no tears wept softly down
•
Unto a patient earth,
342 Mr. V.
That meekly drinks their drops and sees
The lightly chasing mirth
Of April follow down the wind,
Her grief of little worth.
Scarcely a blue and sudden gleam
Parts clouds of drifting grey ;
The flickering fearful sunbeam comes
But seldom here to stray
His timid glance upon the fields
Where the blown grasses sway.
Late in the sullen afternoon
Blue livid clouds grow chill ;
Moved in the low unkindly heavens
By winds unkindlier still ;
And trees like spattered purple ink
Sprawl darkly on the hill.
There comes a sudden dash of rain
That coldly stings the face ;
Now all the wavering drops whirl on
At the swift tempest pace ;
While in the field wet flying gusts
Swoop down through leagues of space. .
And yet the tender leaves put forth
Brave hearts beside the way ;
For there is sap that mounts and sings
In tree and hedge to-day ;
And silken buds of willow-palms
Flash green and silver-grey.
So blows the wind or beats the rain
With scarce a ray between ;
But there is joy in hearts of men
Who other Springs have seen ;
For low beneath heaven's folded cloud
The world is growing green.
[Signed M. Veley.]
Margaret Veley's poem has a captivating and winsome
rhythm, but in it we miss I think some of the true and
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 343
tender observation there is in the spirit poem. Whoever
wrote the spirit poem, he or she had at any rate actually
observed a stormy April day and was not merely echoing
what dead poets have said about April. I do not think
the living Margaret Veley would have written the script
poem. It remains on too objective a level. Margaret
Veley could not have written so many verses without
allowing her personal melancholy to appear. Even the
" Spring " poem which begins objectively enough becomes
subjective in tone after the three stanzas quoted.
Moreover, Margaret Veley's four-stress verse has generally
a distinct falling cadence, while a feature of the spirit
verse is an evenness of iambic movement with a pre-
dilection for rising cadences.
Moreover, I doubt if the living Margaret Veley would
have introduced such specific detail as " silken buds of
willow palms " or " trees like spattered purple ink." She
was generally content with the almost Chaucerian sim-
plicities of " leafless flowers," " budding branches," " sap-
less leaf and stem."
As regards vocabulary, the differences between the two
poets are perhaps not very remarkable, but I have come
across individual words such as " lucid " which the living
Margaret Veley frequently used but which occur nowhere
in the script verse.
The word " unkindly " which occurs in this script poem
does not seem to have been one of Margaret Veley's
words. And I am quite certain she would never have
referred to the " roof-garden of a grave." [See p. 337.]
Probably many spiritualists will argue that such super-
fine criticism is beside the mark when it is a question of
a poet who has been dead forty years. Forty years !
Why in that time she might have developed into an
Edith Sitwell or a Rose Macaulay, or at least a Miss
Sackville-West. But if you asked me just what kind of
poetry I should expect Margaret Veley to write after
forty years of evolution in the " spheres " I should be
completely nonplussed.
According to orthodox spiritualist tradition one ought I
suppose, to expect a vers litre or at best a very free blank
344 Mr. V. [part
verse. The sentiment would consist of lofty but rather
boring moral platitudes, or perhaps of a nebulous mysticism
striving feebly to penetrate a cloud of coloured words.
But of two things we might be fairly certain : whatever
the sentiment of the verse it would have no rhymes and
no regular stanzas.
Setting aside the numerous sorry Shelleys and garrulous,
inglorious Miltons that have provided poor enough sport
even for the spiritualists themselves, there are on record
few really interesting cases in which literary ghosts have
been raised a quarter of a century or more after their
deaths. Perhaps one of the most intriguing was the
spirit return of Oscar Wilde in 1923 after a sojourn of
twenty-three years in what (if we are to believe the
unhappy author's own account) must have been the least
delectable regions of Hades. This soi-disant Wilde, who
continued to write through my hand for several weeks,
reproduced not only the salient features of his mundane
calligraphy—a feat that seems almost inexplicable on any
psychological theory of the soul—but in addition all his
egotism, most of his literary mannerisms and an occasional
flash of his old wit and fire. Indeed, after nearly a
quarter of a century of stagnation in what Sir A. Conan
Doyle calls " the grey spheres " Wilde was still capable of
producing a style equal to his earthly worst, and in the
McGregor scripts even recovered his second best.
He made no attempts to write poetry, it is true, but
he was no great hand at that on earth. When we
remember what a fluent capacity the resurrected Wilde
showed for writing imitations of himself, and sometimes
bad ones at that, it seems at first sight curious that the
spirit poems of Margaret Veley should be so entirely unlike
those of the living authoress. But the anterior circum-
stances were widely difl^erent in the two cases. Before
the Oscar Wilde scripts were produced I had read De
Profundis, The Picture of Dorian Grey, and the Ballad
of Reading Gaol—three works which contain a good deal
of the quintessence of Wilde. There probably existed
therefore sufficient well-assimilated material in my memory
out of which my own subconscious activity could recon-
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 345
struct—or if you are a spiritualist—out of which the spirit
of Oscar Wilde could reconstruct a very tolerable imitation
of the dead author's prose style. But I am morally certain
that besides the poem " Almond Blossom," which by the
way bears no signature in Harper's Magazine, I had read
nothing of Margaret Veley's at the time I received the
messages.
Nowadays even the most ardent and advanced spiritualists
are being compelled to admit that if the dead can com-
municate with the living they probably make use of
material that is in the memories of the living. To permit
oneself the dangerous licence of a metaphor, one might
say that the spirit of Wilde found in my mind a well-
tilled field in which to sow his seeds of style, while
Margaret Veley found only a barren and stony ground.
But there is another consideration that must be given
due weight. All who have had considerable practical
experience of spirituahstic phenomena will know that if
a psychic circle expressly concentrates its attention on
getting some particular sort of manifestation the psychic
energy seems to be diverted gradually into the desired
channel, and the chosen manifestation will continue to
develop at the expense of other rudimentary phenomena,
which will be suppressed or at least clipped in their
growth.
Now most of the Oscar Wilde scripts were produced in
the general literary atmosphere of Mrs. Travers-Smith's
Chelsea drawing-room. The conversation turned naturally
on books and authors, and the people present were usually
persons like Miss Oummins, with literary inclinations, who
showed the hvehest interest in all that the so-called Wilde
wrote. We did not strain after mere facts. Wilde was
never pestered to give the name of his favourite horse
or of the butler at Tite Street. When he " descended
into the dull abyss of facts " he did so of his own free-
will and under no pressure from us. In fact, our really
strong interest in him was literary and not biographical,
and so long as the experiment lasted we let this soi-
disant Wilde develop for what he was worth as a literary
personality. And there is much to be said in favour of
z
346 Mr. V. [part
this attitude when dealing with literary ghosts. The
study of subconscious literary creation is in itself a legi-
timate subject for psychic investigation, and one that is
at least as fascinating as telepathy or clairvoyance. Only
the earth-worms of psychic research will argue otherwise.
From the literary point of view I think it is possible
that we lost a good deal by not giving the spirit of
Margaret Veley more encouragement. Perhaps for a
literary ghost we put her through too severe and too con-
stant a catechism. Miss Hunt was sympathy and patience
themselves, but between us I fancy we just failed somehow
to provide the right atmosphere for the genial nurture
of a rather shy poetic shade. If we had relaxed a little
the tension of the sittings, and been less assiduous in inter-
rogating M. V. on her family and connections, it is pro-
bable that Mr. Salter would have been provided with a
smaller budget of facts, but that on the other hand the
literary developments might have more than compensated
for the loss.
Nothing, I feel, would be gained by printing here ^ the
whole of M. V.'s script verses.
Enough to say that this verse is invariably melodious
and well finished and charming in sentiment even though
it does not reach a high imaginative level. And in the
whole of it I have been unable to discover even slight
indications that might lead one to suspect that the "real"
Margaret Veley had any hand in it. A specimen or two
will suffice.
The little poem which follows is the one by which the
spirit M. V. first intimated her presence at the initial
sitting on 22nd May, 1927. The form is here not alto-
gether inappropriate to the mood.
SUNSET STREET.
Across the gardens to the sun,
When westward skies enthrone the sun,
I gaze, and lo ! the gilding falls
With kindling strangeness on the walls.
^ A complete copy of the M.V. verses is filed at the rooms of the
Society.
110] _
The Literary Style of the Scripts. 347
A magic's loosed upon the street,
And the last gables of the street,
Shine more remote, and now to me
Speak of a nobler masonry.
I seize the last good gift of day,
Sm-prise the bounty of the day ;
I make my rare, kind truce with Fate,
And Here and Now obliterate.
Appropriate to me is this Time,
I'm sovereign mistress of this Time,
And Space has slipped its cable slack
—
The world's width's mine for gazing back.
Graciously stand the minarets
Light-garmented ; those minarets
Have talked with Time ; that turret's edge
Despoils the sun of one bright wedge.
The sun-kissed stairways spire and climb.
How airily they spire and climb !
Beheld in beauty from their height
All the long city lies in light.
Yon roof's a garden, leafed and flowered.
With pinli and purple bells 'tis flowered.
And tunefully they're wont to swing
On the gold fringe of evening.
Hear now ! a fragment of the chime
Minute and silver-lipping chime !
And perfumes wajnvard on my face
Make sweet this lapse of Time and Space.
O land far-off from every day !
O Age long-lost to every day :
0 vanquished leagues ! 0 captured hour !
The sun has clipped behind the tower.
The sun has dipped behind the roof,
Behind Rose Villa's gabled roof,
And the last chimney-pot goes gray,
A hundred sober yards away.
(Signed) Margaret Veley.
348 Mr. V. [part
Certain of the unfinished fragments are perhaps more
interesting than the completed efforts. I cite two ex-
amples. The first was written on 20th January, 1928, in
the presence of Miss Hunt.
THE GARDEN.
In a corner close-embowered
Where green boughs dip and shade,
Where flakes of light are showered
And a peace of leaves is made.
Somewhere a child in a garden
The flower of joy in her hands
Stood near those other garden gates
That open in unknown lands.
Through musk and scent of roses . . .
(Unfinished.)
The second fragment is interesting as being the sole
example of "Margaret Veley " verse written in the presence
of a person other than Miss Hunt. After the middle of
February, 1928, Miss Hunt was unable to co-operate any
longer and the M. V. sittings came to an end. I did not
resume automatic writing till the following May, when I
had one sitting in the presence of Mrs. Mackenzie at
No. 2 Adelaide Road. At this sitting the new communi-
cator Mr. " X " manifested but not Margaret Veley. On
October 10th however I had my second sitting with Mrs.
Mackenzie, and at this sitting in addition to Mr. " X "
the " spirit " of M. V. paid us a flying visit as unexpected
as it was brief.
Having announced her presence by signing her name
M. V. wrote a couple of stanzas of a poem called " The
River," the first stanza being very confused and almost
illegible. But the second stanza suggests that under hap-
pier conditions the poem would have been a charming one :
Rosebay and rush and reed-feather
At its sweet selvedge clustering,
While summer's luring finger-tips
Draw bloom down to its laughing lips ;
no] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 340
Mirror of crystal shows !
And for its robes' best fashioning
As for the raiment of a king
The flag-flower a purple blazon sews.
The Prose Style of the Scripts.
Margaret Veley's novels are stamped with a date. Her
poetry has an individual note, a faint characteristic vibra-
tion, but none of those great original qualities that will
cause the verses of Edward Thomas and of W. H. Davies
to be rediscovered and read again and again in the ages
to come. Margaret Veley's poetry is an echo with a
personal ring, but still only an echo. But while few
nowadays would care to wade through her novels or read
much of her verse, there remain a few passages culled
from the letters she left that reveal a humour that is as
fresh and sparkling in 1928 as it was in 1888. One could
wish that Leslie Stephen had preserved for us more of
this quiet ii'onic fun. Miss Jane Doe writes much in the
same vein to-day. I Mali cite one or two examples. On
one occasion Margaret Veley seems to have felt uncom-
fortable at having used the poetically commonplace flowers
of amaranth and asphodel, and she looks them up in a
French dictionary. In a letter she writes :
And they said that amaranth was " Love lies bleeding,"
" Prince's Feather," etc. Could Milton's angels be crowned
with that ? I attacked a book in thirty-six volumes on
English Botany and hunted up a wild amaranth. Milton's
amaranth, if I remember rightly, grows "hard by the tree
of life," but the description of my wild amaranth began,
" This dunghill plant grows chiefly in the neighbourhood
of London."
She is reminded of " Moly," of which she used to read
in Pope's Odyssey, and looks it up for old acquaintance
sake :
Horror ! The four authorities I consulted were all
unanimous. It is a wild garlic with yellow flowers ! After
that—I can but hope the Lotus eaters lay very still ; for
the only wild garlic I know if crushed—
350 Mr. V. [PAET
Asphodel is better but it was a shock to me to learn
that it has a nutritive and medicinal root shaped like a
j
small turnip.
This passage concerning " Moly " is interesting in con-
nection with one of Mr. Salter's test questions and I shall
refer to it later.
Margaret Veley was rather fond of playing on words.
Of the cat Zoroaster she writes :
As for Zo he is simply and literally " the desolator " aa
Byron puts it. When I was planting out seedling asters
the other evening in a hurry because the light was failing
he said quite distinctly " A Zoroaster is better than a
China-aster any day " and proceeded to plant himself in
every hole in turn. Being with difficulty uprooted he
climbed and bounced about till the next hole was ready.
Here is her analysis of this same garden :
" There are," she writes, "in 100 parts
Stones (say) 76
Potsherds, brickbats, bones
bits of glass and a rusty iron bar
Worms, grubs, etc. 7
Bits of Newspaper and various
rubbish always mysteriously arriving
about
If you add it up you'll find it comes to just 100 :
—no it
doesn't, it comes to 99. What little trifle have I forgotten ?
Well it can't much matter can it ? Oh ! but I have it
:
Earth:—
1
And there you are !
"
There is little enough of this humour in the scripts,
which are, except for the poems, devoid of either grace or
style, being for the most part simply bare unentertaining
lists of facts, names of family connections, etc.
In this barren desert there is one and only one little
oasis which might lead one to believe that with proper
encouragement the " spirit " Margaret might in time have
developed a sense of fun not entirely unlike what is
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 351
revealed by the letters of the real Margaret. On 12th
October, 1927, Miss Hunt being present, M. V. wrote :
I suppose I am very much of a back number hy now.
I often think of my six novels. They must now be
mouldering in our national libraries with the rest of the
fruit of dead men's brains.
Do they ever dust them I wonder ? No doubt the
worms have made many a meal off the works of M. Veley.
What are the wild worms saying Margaret ? However as
my books must have bored so many readers it is only
right that they should end in being bored also. Do the
little worms prefer our old-fashioned paper to your modem
wood-pulp ?
It is only a gleam, but there seems to be here a
tendency to play on words rather reminiscent of the
" Zoroaster " passage quoted above.
One may indeed question if Margaret Veley in her life-
time would have referred to herself as a back-number as
she was somewhat of a purist in her English. In another
script she calls herself a " Britisher." At the time when
Margaret Veley wrote there appears to have been a
prejudice in literary circles against the use of this word
which was an importation from America.
But if Margaret Veley, who admits that this was not the
first spiritualistic seance she has visited, is in sufficiently
close touch with the living to be able to reply to their
spoken words by automatic writing have we any right to
suppose that her vocabulary would remain what it was in
1887 ? Oscar Wilde claimed to have read the novels of
Arnold Bennett through twentieth centmry eyes, and he
even criticised them rather amusingly if somewhat caustic-
ally according to his old canons of aesthetic creed. Why
should not a surviving Margaret Veley in contact with the
living have picked up fresh phrases during the years just
as we do ourselves ?
Indeed, if what survives the death of the body is a
true mind, with all its capacities for development and
adaptation, we might well expect to find that after forty
years' sojourn in a new environment this mind had
352 Mr. V. [part
changed out of all recognition so far as its faculties and
mental content are concerned. We ought not to be
surprised if we find it as difficult to identify by purely
mental traits a posthumous M. V. of 1927 with the old
M. V. of 1887 as it would be for us to discover the boy
of six in the grown man of forty-six. In the last case,
apart from such purely physical permanences as birth-marks
or finger-prints, we should have to rely upon a few uncer-
tain childish memories as the sole material for identifica-
tion.
On the other hand, what survives death may not be, as
the spiritualists believe, a real mind, but only a timeless
component of the old mind which is captured and revital-
ised into a sort of temporary new mind by the nervous
system of the automatist. In this case we might expect
the new mind to exhibit certain characteristics of the old,
but these would l^e modified by the fusion of the surviving
components with the new organism.
Unfortunately our ignorance of the real nature of the
surviving components of human minds makes it at present
impossible for us to determine just what qualities of the
old mind we should expect the new compound mind to
exhibit.
Is this surviving entity to be identified, for instance,
with the " Pure Memory " of Bergson, which persists but
is unable to realise itself as consciousness except when
fused with the perceptions of a living organism ? And, if
so, would such personal traits as handwriting, word
habits, facial gestures, vocal characteristics, etc., which
would seem to depend largely upon mechanisms built up
inside the nervous system, perish utterly with the old
organism ? Yet we know that many sitters claim to
recognise the physical idiosyncrasies of deceased relatives
in the gestures of an entranced medium.
In the Margaret Veley scripts the handwriting seems
indistinguishable from my own, but in the scripts of Oscar
Wilde the writing bears an indisputable resemblance to
that of the living author. But I should deny emphatic-
ally that it was a rejilica of Wilde's own handwriting.
When I come to examine it it seems to be rather my own
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 353
handwriting modified by the introduction of Wildean
characteristics. It is, in fact, my own handwriting dis-
guised by such devices as the breaking up of individual
words, the substitution of Greek u's for a's and Wildean
r's and f's for my own r's and f's.
Handwriting is undoubtedly a bodily habit, but it is
nevertheless probable that there is associated with it an
element of what Bergson calls " Pure Memory." The
mere fact that we are able to recognise other people's
handwriting when we see it shows that we retain a
memory of handwriting that is different from the mere
automatic memory of the nervous mechanism which
reproduces it.
If this spiritual memory is part of the surviving com-
ponent of mind we might expect the handwritings of
automatic scripts to bear certain resemblances to those of
the living personalities without being in any sense exact
replicas.
The real difficulty is to explain why characteristics of
the handwriting of Wilde are reproduced and no such
characteristics in the case of Margaret Veley by one and
the same automatist.
Reproduction of handwriting is, however, a very rare
phenomenon in the history of automatism.
There is indeed the classical case of Mrs. Thompson who
reproduced in her trance handwriting which bore a re-
markable resemblance to that of the late Prof. Henry
Sidgwick. It was pointed out however by Mr. Piddington
[Proceedings, vol. xviii.] that there was no reasonable cer-
tainty that the medium had not previously seen a speci-
men of Prof. Sidgwick's handwriting. In this connection
Mr. Piddington mentions his own capacity for vivid
visualization during dreams of the handwriting of various
friends and conjectures that this faculty may be even
more active in the mediumistic trance.
Such considerations might tempt one to suppose that
sometime in the year 1914 I had casually glanced at the
Countess de Breremont's Oscar Wilde, a book that was
rather prominently displayed on the bookstalls of that
time and which contains a facsimile letter of Wilde's,
364 Mr. V. [part
were it not for the fact that the later 0. W. scripts
contain certain calligraphic details such as the " looped " f
which do not appear in this specimen. It is not
therefore easy to dispose of the handwriting in the Wilde
script as an example of cryptomnesia, and the mystery
remains.
Hypotheses.
/. The Hypothesis of Conscious Fraud.
At the end of his paper Mr. Salter expresses the opinion
that if the scripts are a fake then they are an elaborate
and ingenious fake. Elaborate the fake would certainly be
in this respect that the faker must have spent a great
deal of time in ferretting out the various bits of informa-
tion, but I can hardly admit that it merits the word
" ingenious." Indeed, I am frightened to think how much
more effectively the thing could have been done by a
forger who set about the business in a systematic way.
How these dull scripts could have been enlivened with
local colour by means of a judicious and discreet question-
ing of unsuspecting old Braintree residents, some of whom
would almost certainly have known Margaret Veley in
their youth. Then it seems scarcely credible that a faker
who can presumably write verse should refrain from
setting himself the easy exercise of imitating Margaret
Veley's unaffected pentameters. And when he started to
collect information one would imagine that the clever faker
would certainly make a point of visiting the Veley tomb-
stones in Braintree cemetety and of noting carefully what
was inscribed on each of them. And, having done so, he
would have been well primed with the Christian names of
Alice Holmes' second son who died in childhood. But our
faker apparently has been so clumsy as to neglect to read
the simple book of the churchyard tomb, and so he is
unprepared to give the name of Edward Holmes* second
son. He has, however, got hold of something more difficult
—the name Bernard Willoughby of the third son which is
not to be found in the churchyard.
The faker, however, is very familiar with the old Essex
directories prior to 1887—so familiar, in fact, that he
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 355
was able to give extempore in reply to an unforeseen
question, the correct names Harrisson, Jessops and Till-
cock (Till the Cock Crow ?) of three former residents in
Great Square, Braintree, and, in addition, the occupation of
Harrisson. He is also well aware of the existence of the
lawyer Cunnington and of the fact that the latter was in
close touch with Mr. Veley's business. The directory
which has taught our faker so much should also have
taught him that the Christian name of Mr. Cunnington
was Augustus. Apparently, however, in spite of his ex-
cellent memory for the obscure Jessop, Harrisson and
Tillcock, he has failed to note that the name of Cunning-
ton is the same as that of the elder Veley. Or, having
noted it, he is so obtuse that he cannot by putting two
and two together connect up the " Uncle Gus " of the
test question with the only Augustus that was at all
eligible for the sobriquet.
In one of the scripts our faker gives the surname Miss
Day in a wrong connection. This Miss Day was the
name of Edward Holmes' second wife, who came from
Peckham and is therefore not mentioned in the Braintree
list of residents. How came the faker to get hold of this
name if not through reading some old notice of Miss
Day's wedding to Edward Holmes ? And if he had come
across such a notice would he not have pounced upon it
and pigeon-holed it in his memory for future use ? Yet
how comes it that when he is asked the name of Edward
Holmes' second wife he is unable to give it ? A week
later, however, he volunteers correctly the Christian name
Agnes of Edward Holmes' second wife, but still does not
produce the surname. What are we to make of this ?
But the most astonishing puzzle yet remains. Why
should a perpetrator of literary hoaxes, who has presumably
faked the Oscar Wilde script so well as to deceive both
Robert Lynd and James Douglas, condescend to angle for
a lesser literary fish like Margaret Veley ? Would he not
have chosen for his second attempt some writer still
remembered by our generation, and one whose style would
repay imitation and whose resurrection would cause a
little flutter in the literary world ?
356 Mr. V. [part
Our faker is not only clumsy and strangely negligent
but also curiously oblivious of his own self-interests.
//. The Hypothesis of Cryptomnesia.
I do not think cryptomnesia can be accepted as a
major explanation of the Margaret Veley scripts any more
than it would serve to account for the Oscar Wilde scripts
taken in their entirety.
It is true that there are fragments of the Oscar Wilde
script which almost certainly had their origin in passages
that I had previously read in books or composed myself.
[See Psychic Science, Jaxi. 1924, p. 314, and 8.P.R. Journal,
July, 1926.] The resemblances in these cases are too
obvious to be ignored, and cryptomnesia seems a perfectly
legitimate explanation when applied to these individual
instances. But for my mind to have gathered together the
very numerous scraps of information—many of them of an
out-of-the-way kind—which are scattered throughout the
scripts it would be necessary to assume that I had seen at
least five different lives of Wilde, and opened in a casual
way a number of out-of-print books such as My Diaries,
by Wilfrid Scawen Blunt, at just those pages where Oscar
Wilde is mentioned.
Further, I must have obtained also in a casual way a
far more intimate acquaintance with Wilde's prose works
than is represented by a reading of De Profundis, The
Picture of Dorian Grey, and the Selected Poems. The
criticisms of living authors, for instance, would seem to be
modelled on those contained in The Decay of Lying,
though in no sense could they be described as plagiarisms.
And it is difficult to believe that certain of the automatic
essays could have been written by anyone who had not
steeped himself in the languid music of Irdentio7is.
Similar arguments against cryptomnesia apply with even
more force to the Margaret Veley scripts.
While, for instance, it is possible that all the facts
concerning Edward Holmes and his family had their origin
in my boyhood's reading of the Essex Weekly News from
1898 onwards it is jiractically certain that my knowledge
of the cat Zoroaster and of the " Moly " incident could
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 357
have come from no other source than the out-of-prmt work
A Marriage of Shadoivs.
But even if we supposed that I might on some forgotten
occasion have come across this book on some second-hand
book-stall and casually turned over its pages there are
still large numbers of facts quite unaccounted for. There
is, for instance, the knowledge shown of the friendship
between the Veleys and the Overtons, or the fact that the
Veleys and Tabors were acquainted. It seems certain
that, even if these items could have been ferretted out of
old newspapers, we should have to go back to the years
before I was born. Again, there is the knowledge of the
Christian name Julia of Margaret Veley's elder sister who is
referred to in A Marriage of Shadows merely as Mrs. Webb.
It is rather doubtful if that Christian name, together with
the lady's relationship to Margaret Veley, could have been
obtained from an Essex newspaper of so late a date as
1898.
To have got the name Cox and his occupation of
druggist we should have to refer to old directories or
newspapers round about the year 1854.
The names of former vicars of Braintree could have been
learned easily by walking inside Braintree church, but I am
certain I was never inside that church till I visited it in
September, 1928, in company with Mr. Salter. It is very
improbable though not impossible, that these names should
have been mentioned in the Essex Weekly News as late as
1898.
It is also interesting to note that " Agnes," the Christian
name of Edward Holmes' second wife, is not given in the
obituary notice of him which appeared in 1909, while the
marriage itself took place in the 'seventies.
Supernormal Hypotheses.
The Automatisms Links with the Communicator.
If I did not know the truth about these scripts, and
were compelled to choose between conscious fraud and
cryptomnesia, I should have to stake on fraud.
Fortunately we are not confined to such a choice. The
358 Mr. V. [part
case has at least one curious precedent in the " Hacking "
communications of a few years ago. Here the casual
week-end visit of a Wesleyan clergyman to the town of
Bury, and his subsequent attendance at a spiritualist
seance, seems to have been the occasion for an immense
outpouring of information from a trance medium concerning
the shopkeepers, tradesmen and other vanished residents
of the district in which the late Mr. Hacking had lived
half a century ago.
In this case the link between the psychic circle and the
"intelligence" behind the communications seems to have
been of the slightest ; apparently the mere fact that one
of the circle had recently visited the locality was sufficient
to start the train of supernormal communication.
In the Veley case the links are equally tenuous, but
stiU they are there. I had once in my life passed an
hour in the town in which Margaret Veley had lived. Mr.
Luke lonides, an old friend of Miss Veley, had visited his
son in the district in which I lived. Though I have never
spoken to Mr. Luke lonides I have seen him at least once
as he was being driven past me in a pony-cart, while his
son Mr. Cyril lonides hved only a mile and a half from
my home. With Mr. Cyril lonides I have had many long
conversations, but at that time I was unaware that the
Christian name of his father was Luke. So far as I am
aware Mr. Cyril lonides knew nothing of Margaret Veley ;
at any rate she was never made the subject of conver-
sation.
Another link may have been made by my reading of the
poem " Almond Blossom."
/. The Hypothesis of Telepathy.
The first of the supernormal explanations which naturally
suggests itself is telepathy from the living. There are, I
think, several good reasons for rejecting this hypothesis as
a major explanation.
In the first place I have never been able to discover
that my automatic writing ever reflects the ideas or
thoughts of the persons in whose company I write. At
the time when I was producing the " Oscar Wilde " scripts
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 359
Mrs. Travers-Smith was herself getting messages through the
Ouija board purporting to come from the same author.
These messages were spelled out in my absence, and when
I visited her flat to attempt my own writing Mrs. Travers-
Smith would carefully refrain from showing me these
Ouija messages until my own script was finished. Here,
therefore, was a unique opportunity for telepathy to assert
itself. Nevertheless, I was quite unable to find that my
scripts were in any way influenced by those Mrs. Travers-
Smith had written in my absence. If, therefore, telepathy
failed to operate at a time when the conditions seemed
particularly favourable, it is difficult to imagine that while
the Veley scripts were being produced my mind succeeded
in establishing rapport with the minds of people who were
quite unknown to me and who had in all probability
never heard of me.
Again, I think it is extremely improbable that any one
of Margaret Veley's living friends had in his or her memory
every one of the complex array of facts given at the
sittings. Granting this we should have to assume that the
case is not a simple case of accidental rapport established
between my mind and the mind of some individual
relative or friend. Instead it would be necessary to sup-
pose that my subconscious mind had accomplished extra-
ordinary feats of selection. It has had, so to speak, to
knock at the doors of perhaps three or four different
minds, and, gaining an entry, manage to obtain just those
bits of information that are connected with Margaret Veley,
extracting from one mind what it could not find in
another. A similar supposition would have to be made if
one tried to explain by telepathy from the living certain
mental phenomena of Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Thompson or Mrs.
Leonard.
But perhaps the main reason for rejecting the hypothesis
that Margaret Veley's living friends were the real source
of the facts given in the script is to be sought for in the
nature of the facts themselves.
On the assumption of spontaneous telepathy from the
mind of an intimate friend one would, I think, expect the
subject matter of communication to consist largely of
360 Mr. V. [part
the recollection of trivial incidents and personal souvenirs
having an emotional interest for the mind of the living
friend.
The bulk of the information tendered, however, is not
of this private personal character, but consists of facts
that must have been known to hundreds of residents of
Braintree who were quite outside Miss Veley's circle. I
should hardly expect, for instance, that one of Miss
Veley's intimates would provide me with such bits of
information as the existence of the druggist Cox (which
goes back to the 'fifties) or the fact that Augustus Veley
had a brother F. Veley. The story of the pony walking
up to its girth in a pond on a dark night is more the
sort of thing one would expect if telepathy were at work.
Unfortunately, although the narration of this alleged
incident is accompanied by names that are correct and
plausible, the story itself remains unverified. Possibly, of
course, all the people are now dead who could have
confirmed it. As it is we have no evidence that the
story is anything more than a cunning subconscious
fabrication, with one or two names added to lend it an
air of plausibility.
In fact the messages are singularly devoid of just those
pieces of private information that one often obtains at a
good sitting with Mrs. Leonard, and which would serve to
support the hypothesis of telepathy from either the dead
Margaret Veley or from at least one of her still-living
intimate friends.
The conjecture that the information was obtained
telepathically from the mind of some Braintree resident
who was not an intimate of Miss Veley's circle squares
better with the actual facts, but I do not think it is
entirely satisfactory. We should, of course, have to
assume that such an old resident knew at least the
names of Miss Veley's novels, and that he had read A
Marriage of Shadows, as otherwise we should be unable to
account for the " Moly " incident.
We might reasonably expect that living for years in
Braintree he would know all or much more than the
scripts give about Edward Holmes and his affairs. He
no] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 361
might easily be aware that the Overtoils were friends of
the Veleys.
But should we be likely to get from a Braintree resident
the out-of-the-way fact that Mr. Alfred Warner, the
husband of Constance, Uved at Montagu Street,^ London ?
//. The Hypothesis of Clairvoyance.
To suggest that the supernormal knowledge contained in
these scripts has its source in " a perception of Reality,"
or "a sixth sense," is merely to renounce all attempts at
intelligent discussion.
I do not think that any advantage is gained by abandon-
ing the old-established terms telepathy, telaesthesia, clair-
voyance, in favour of some all-embracing non-committal
word like " cryptaesthesia." It is true that when we
describe a case as a case of telepathy or of telaesthesia
we do not thereby gain any intimate understanding of
it, but at least we classify it by assimilating it to a
familiar class of phenomena which resemble it in certain
important characteristics. It may be true also that our
present system of classification of mental phenomena is
often crude and misleading, but that is no reason for
abandoning the system before we have evolved a better
one.
In the case of the Margaret Veley scripts we must ask
ourselves : "To what known class of supernormal pheno-
mena are these scripts most readily assimilated ?
"
We have seen that the facts are on the whole not the
sort of facts that come easily under the heading of
spontaneous telepathy, whether we understand this term to
mean an involuntary transmission of thought from a
distant agent to the automatist, or an active reading by
the automatist's subconscious mind of the mind of the
distant agent.
Now it seems certain that the great bulk of the verified
information exists somewhere as printed matter in books,
directories, newspapers, or even birth certificates or death
^ Not quite accurately given in the script as Montgomery Street, but
taken in conjunction with the other facts near enough to put coincidence
out of the question.
2a
362 Mr. V. [part
certificates, and there is the possibility that with sufficient
patience all the facts could be traced to printed sources,
although Mr. Salter has not so far succeeded in doing this.
Even items such as " the hothouses of Mr. Holmes " may
quite possibly be mentioned in some old column of Brain-
tree news, say, in connection with a gift to a local hospital,
etc.
In fact, with the exception of the two unverified in-
cidents of " the broken bottle in Cox's shop " and of
" the pony walking into the pond," and of perhaps the
knowledge shown of Mr. Luke lonides' habit of reading
the Spectator, there is hardly anything in the scripts that
we might not reasonably expect to find in print if we
could search long enough.
I would suggest that the Spectator incident might be no
more than an astute inference drawn by my own sub-
conscious mind from a memory I had of Mr. Cyril lonides
writing occasional articles on his barge for the same paper.
Moreover, there is curious accuracy in the answer given
to the question about the herb " Moly " that suggests
strongly that the real source was neither the memory of
Margaret Veley nor of a living relative, but the account
given in Leslie Stephen's biography.
Now the supernormal reading of printed matter is a
phenomenon that seems now to be fairly well established
through the book-tests of Mrs. Leonard and Mrs. Cooper,
and by such isolated experiments as those of Mr. Dunne
and others.
Whether, with Mr. Drayton-Thomas, we look upon the
phenomena as being due to the agency of a discarnate
spirit, or whether, with Mr. Dunne, we see in them the
mind's prevision of its own future experience, is immaterial
to our present purpose.
The fact remains that we have a good deal of evidence
tending to show that there is sometimes an apparent
reading of printed matter by supernormal means. In
supposing such a supernormal faculty to be at work in the
M. V. scripts we should of course have to postulate that
it possessed an extraordinary selective power over its
material. But in Mr. Drayton-Thomas' experiments with
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 363
books the faculty seems also to be endowed with consider-
able powers of selection. Just those phrases are chosen
from the books which are in some way appropriate to
Mr. Drayton-Thomas' late father. Mr. Drayton-Thomas is
of opinion that the possessor of this supernormal power of
reading closed books is the actual surviving personality of
his deceased father. I would not venture so far as to
suggest that in my case the intelligence which apparently
reads old newspapers and directories is the spirit of
Margaret Veley. I have, however, some reason for believing
that the agent at work is not solely my own subconscious
mind.
After reading Mr. Dunne's book, A71 Experiment with
Time, I have repeatedly tried to obtain impressions through
automatic writing of the contents of books I had not
previously read. Though as far as possible I followed
Mr. Dunne's methods I have never obtained anything I
could call even a moderate success. My hand wrote
phrases, but they were either inappropriate or well within
the scope of chance-coincidence. Nor can my failure be
attributed to lack of emotional interest. I was at least as
keenly interested in getting successful results in this
direction as ever I have been in obtaining sensational
" communications " from the dead. And it is this repeated
failure that makes me believe that, if the M. V. scripts
have their origin in a supernormal reading of distant
printed sources, there is probably some factor at work
which is external to my own mind.
///. The Spirit Hypothesis.
In discussing this, our final hypothesis, I am well aware
that I am venturing into regions that in our present
ignorance would seem to lie beyond the limits of legitimate
scientific speculation. The history of modern science is a
record of the elimination of spirits as agencies in the
working of the world and the substitution of rational
laws and mechanisms. When Kepler discovered that the
planets describe elliptic orbits with the sun as focus he
supposed that each planet was kept in its path by a
" guiding angel." To-day we look no longer for angels but
364 Mr. V. [part
seek to interpret gravitation by the very geometry of the
space-time in which we live.
Our science of psychical research is still in the empirical
stage. It is still to-day a collection of " cases " and
isolated observations, with not a single well-estabhshed law
to its credit so far as supernormal phenomena are concerned.
It is true, of course, that the scientific study of mind in
general has not made any progress comparable with that
achieved by experimental physics or chemistry. Neverthe-
less, if we are to make any scientific progress at all in
either normal or abnormal psychology, our efforts must be
directed towards the discovery of rational and uniform
laws in the mental field, always assuming of course that
such laws exist.
Our first efforts in psychic research therefore should be
directed towards an exploration of the mechanisms of the
subconscious parts of the mind and the laws which under-
lie its supernormal activities. Our primary business is
with the living minds that we partially know and not with
the hypothetical spirits of the dead. Immediately we begin
to " explain," say, a case of telepathy, by postulating that
the message was " carried " by the spirit of a dead man
from the agent to the percipient, we are advancing the
kind of hypothesis that will lead us nowhere. Such " ex-
planations " in reality explain nothing, and no true
scientific man will be deceived by them.
We have not yet accumulated sufficient experience to be
able to say with even probable certainty v/hat are the
limits of the supernormal knowledge to be expected from a
medium concerning a person who has been dead for one,
five, ten, twenty or forty years. Decades of work may
have to be done before we are even in sight of such
certainty.
To-day we attempt to estimate what a spirit should be
expected to remember by analogy with what we know
about the memories of some living people. But such
analogies may not be legitimate, and the psychology of the
surviving mind may for ought we know be quite different
from that of the living mind. It is only our lack of
organised knowledge that makes us resort to such analogies.
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 365
The failure of a soi-disant Myer« to xeveal the contents
of a sealed envelope—a test wb^cli the living Myers set
great store upon—certainly does not advance his claim to
be considered the snvvi^ing mind of the living Myers, but
on the other hand it does not entirely invalidate it. It is
conceivable ^ personality might survive which showed
a ^pp^i many of the characteristics of the living Myers,
but nevertheless with certain lacunae in its memory.
In our present ignorance we are quite justified in putting
the onus on the " spirits " to prove their case if they can,
but we are not justified in making dogmatic assertions as
to what a spirit should be expected to remember.
Because I find I have forgotten the names of scores of
men whom I knew quite well in the army ten years ago,
and whose faces and personal characteristics I can still
recall, I argue illogically that ought not to be surprised
to find that after forty years Margaret Veley cannot
remember the name of the gardener at Great Square or tne
name of the pony.
Still pursuing the analogy I argue again illogically that,
though Margaret Veley could not be expected to name the
gardener or the originals of the two pastel portraits, yet
she ought to have been able to describe them and tell
interesting anecdotes about them, since in my own case,
although I have forgotten the name of the man who slept
in the dug-out with me at Guillemont, I could yet tell
quite a number of true things about him.
But in this case the vagaries of the apparent " spirit
memory " are even more disconcerting than the lapses.
" M. V." can give us the names of people like Harrisson,
Jessops and Tillcocks, who meant probably little to her in
life, and yet fails to recognise the name Fish as being that
of her old nurse. And how is it that the mention of
"Uncle Gus " awakens no responsive chord in her memory?
Here, as in the case of " Fish," the difficulty cannot be
the comprehensible difficulty in recalling a proper name.
There is here apparently a real lacuna in the surviving
memory.
Of course it may be possible that one day, if the spirit
hypothesis becomes scientifically established, perfectly
366 Mr. V. [part
legitimate explanatiOi.n r^^ay be forthcoming with regard to
such ai^parent lapses of memory. But until that day
comes it is simply a waste of time to try to argue about
them, and a still greater waste ot time to attempt to
invent arbitrary excuses for them.
Again, I notice that throughout the scripts v\^^^q jg often
considerable circumlocution in the finding of proper x.»v^gg
Thus, in trying to recall her mother's name Sophia, the
" spirit " is apparently only aware that the name she is
trying to give has some association with an article of
furniture, and Miss Hunt finds the right word for her by
suggesting "Sofa." In trying to recall the name Stephen she
can only remember at first that she is after a Biblical name
and then that it was the name of a man who was stoned.
In all this I may fancy that I detect an analogy with
what is observed to happen in the case of certain aphasics.
But if I am wise I shall bear in mind that the analogy
may be merely a superficial one, and I shall refrain from
following the pernicious example of those psychic researchers
who rear their imposing castles of philosophy on founda-
tions that would not bear the weight of a wooden hut.
For aught I know all this circumlocution in the giving
of names may be nothing more than a mere piece of
unconscious play-acting, and I absolutely refuse to see in
it any support for the " instrumental " theory of mind, or
indeed of any other theory.
In conclusion, I do not wish to ridicule the spiritistic
interpretation of these communications. It may conceiv-
ably be true that the surviving spirit of Margaret Veley in
some mysterious way assisted in their production. I would
merely emphasise that, regarded as a scientific working
hypothesis, spiritism does not seem to me to be a very
hopeful avenue of investigation. The spirit hypothesis has
a delusive appearance of simplicity, but so also had
Kepler's hypothesis of guiding angels. And how remote
this was from the complex reality of Einstein's description
of gravitation ! In fact, if these supernormal mental
phenomena depend on the whims and caprices of departed
spirits, then I for one despair of ever being able to
discover any law and order in them.
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. '
367
One final word must be added. Cases of automatism
like those of "Oscar Wilde" or of "Margaret Veley
"
can in no sense be considered as controlled experiments,
and it would be absurd to criticise them as such. If one
takes a sitter anonymously to an automatist with proper
precautions controlled experiments can be made, but when
an automatist suddenly produces a communication purport-
ing to come from a dead author no one can produce
irrefutable evidence of the exact extent of the automatist's
previous knowledge. The case, therefore, fails at the outset
to satisfy the canons of scientific investigation. Neverthe-
less, such cases provide interesting material for reflection
and speculation.
The Poetry of Mb. " X."
Although the Proceedings of this Society are only con-
cerned indirectly with hterature as such I have thought it
worth while for purposes of comparison to give specimens
of the work of another communicator who writes almost
exclusively in verse. Mr. " X " put in his first appearance
on 1st February, 1928, at one of the later M. V. sittings,
when he expressed a desire to write a poem through my
hand. Permission being granted he began immediately,
and in a little over forty-five minutes he had' produced
without a pause the poem " Unfamihar Sounds," Miss
Hunt touching my hand in the usual way. On our ques-
tioning him he declared that his identity was of no im-
portance to us and that he wished to be referred to as
Mr. " X," the unknown, and under this signature all his
subsequent verses have been written.
The poem " Unfamihar Sounds " printed below stands as
it left the pencil of Mr. "X," except for one or two quite
trivial corrections which he made at the next sitting when
he asked Miss Hunt to read the poem aloud. This sitting
was the last I had with Miss Hunt, who was prevented
by pressure of business from assisting me further with my
automatic writing.
I did not resume automatic writing till May 1928, when
I attempted writing one day in the presence of Mrs.
Mackenzie, wife of Prof. J. Mackenzie, late Fellow of Trinity
368 Mr. V. [part
College, Cambridge, at their house in Adelaide Road, Chalk
Farm. M. V. did not manifest at this sitting, but Mr.
" X " wrote the first three verses of what proved subse-
quently to be a very long poem called " Moel Siabod,"
descriptive of the Welsh mountain of that name which I
know intimately through many hohdays spent in the
Snowdon district.
After this first sitting with Mrs. Mackenzie University
examination work made it imj)ossible to continue with
automatic writing until the following October. On Oct.
10th I had a second sitting with Mrs. Mackenzie, and at
this sitting "X" manifested and resumed immediately the
writing of " Moel Siabod " at the point where he had
abandoned it in May. The sittings with Mrs. Mackenzie
were now continued weekly during the whole of the
autumn term, and "X" wrote "Moel Siabod" at the
rate of perhaps half a dozen or sometimes more stanzas
a week. There was much re -writing and many emenda-
tions but at last towards the end of December the long
poem was finished. In all there are 72 stanzas written in
the metre of hi Memoriam.
During all this time " X " had persistently refused to
disclose his identity, but on one occasion he told us that
during his lifetime he had visited the Snowdon district and
that after his death he had " seen the Snowdon mountains
through the eyes of this automatist "
—presumably on the
occasion of one of my many visits to North Wales.
On 19th December, 1928, " X " wrote the first fifteen
lines of a new "Welsh" poem " Tryfan," which was com-
pleted at the next sitting of 2nd January, 1929.
Of the 150 fines this poem contains I have only space
to print the first forty, but the level of the poem is
maintained throughout both as regards imagination and
finish.
Concerning " X " I think that we may justly claim that
he is both a more ambitious and a more promising poet
than the " M. V." of the script. His imaginative range
is wider and his subject matter more modern, and at
present he continues to develop in poetic power while
"M. V." has apparently declined and ceased to manifest.
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 369
But the objections to his claim to be considered a
" spirit " are even greater with Mr. " X " than in the
case of " M. V." On one occasion Mrs. Mackenzie asked
" X " if he were " Mr. V.'s " subconscious mind and he
rephed " Certainly not !
" but in spite of this rather in-
dignant denial he produces no evidence that he is anything
else.
He writes poems about two Welsh mountains, " Moel
Siabod " and " Tryfan," both of which I know in all their
aspects. I have chmbed " Moel Siabod " in all twenty-one
times—from Dolwyddelen as well as from Capel Curig—and
I have made the descent to Pen-y-Gwryd as well as to
Lake Gwynant. I have stood between the two stone men
on the rocky summit of "Tryfan" and I have seen them
from the Bangor Road black against a sunset sky. There
is no Welsh name or old allusion in these two long poems
that is not known to me. All this subject matter there-
fore has been the food of my own senses, and there is no
need to think of " X " as anything else than my own
subconscious activity assimilating and transforming this
raw material.
Indeed it is only a commonplace to say that all poetic
creation exemphfies the same process. An impression is
received by way of the senses ;
it is idly rejected as of
no importance and works its way down into some for-
gotten subsoil of the mind where it hes buried for days
or months or years. One day there is thrown up a jewel,
a shining gem, pohshed by the ceaseless fretting of the
mind's dark waters.
With different automatic writers this work of sub-
conscious transformation is carried on to varied stages.
In the case of " Patience Worth " the crude images, more
or less striking and fine, are poured out in profusion but
the poetic form which would give them a proper setting
is absent, and for lack of this poetic setting the images
lose much of their effect as poetry. But " X " achieves
not only the poetic images and ideas but a poetic form
as well. With this much introduction we may leave his
verses to speak for themselves.
370 Mr. V. [part
1st February, 1928.
UNFAMILIAR SOUNDS.
What men call silence is no more
Than a dead blank wall of divide
Between two worlds of living sound.
On one side is the world we know,
Replete with voices that abide
In seas and streams and winds ablow :
And in the roaring mortal tide
That fills a city's narrow creeks
With unremitting ebb and flow
Of human-kind that vainly seeks
A Peace only the dead may know.
But listen hard against that wall
And listening you may chance to hear
What lies beyond the farther side
Of silence ; sounds too faint, too small
Droning or shrill to make a clear
Impression on your body's ear.
In graveyard grass one afternoon
With ear close -pressed to earth I heard
At first, only the worm's small word,
Twixt mouthfuls as he strives to cram
His maw with moist black earthen mould,
Pushing his body's battering-ram
Through endless realms of dark and cold.
But close on his small voice came soon
The song of lady-bird aswoon
A-sway upon a rye-grass stem ;
Then the minute plaintive anthem
Of small mites numberless that crowd
On shady sides of leaf and stalk ;
I heard the weevil take his walk
And think his teeming thoughts aloud :
I heard that hot still afternoon :
—
The song the mother earwigs croon
Above their babies in the egg ;
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 371
The rubbing of a hive-bee's leg
That scrapes the pollen from its jaws ;
The strange, sad sigh the beetle draws
When he's benighted far from home ;
Trowel-taps on the waxy walls
Of bee-masons building honeycomb ;
And the swift scurrying footfalls
Of frightened ants that cross a stone.
But when
TiioL.^ ^n\o.ea into silence flown
There came a husn aa doop as death
I held my breath and listened on
—
I hardly dared to draw my breath
—
All was so still,—and then—anon
The voiceless vegetable earth
That erewhile lived without a tongue
To stammer forth its grief and mirth
Broke into joyful woeful song.
The eagerness of growing shoots
That seem to thrust aside the air ;
The steady, patient push of roots,
As downward through the earth they bear ;
The living sap that mounts and sings
Breathless in twig and leafy spray :
The slow swelling of a seed's wings
That lift and bear the seed to Day :
And stirrings multitudinous
In fungus, leaf-mould and humus ;
I heard them all as plain and clear
As though they sang into my ear.
I heard the slow-foot lichens creep
Up and up a grey church wall.
Morn and noon and while men sleep.
Those slow-foot armies measure pace
Not by steps but years of grace,
Marking time by lives of men :
Fighting upwards from their base
In generations dead and gone ;
Tireless, hasteless now as then ;
372 Mr. V. [part
They conquer inches, spread and sprawl
And end at last by winning all
That wide empire of ancient stone.
I heard the busy shuttles ply
On Moss's wide-spread loom that weaves
Green carpets for the forest floors ;
I heard the sand-wasp seal her doors
And the black saw-fly slitting leaves.
I caught the groans of trampled grass
That bore in patienne o-^erlong
Insults from countless feet that pass
And never aired its grievous wrong.
With bitter cries from bleeding boughs
Wild blasts have torn from forest trees ;
And bitter cries from leafless boughs
When angry winds have stripped them bare ;
From herbage bitten by the cows
And hawksbit nibbled by the hare :
Thirst-ravings, sun-parched agonies
Of weeds uprooted by the ploughs
In stony furrows stacked to dry
Or smoulder on the bonfires there.
And hollow sighs from hemlock stalks
A boy has bruised in passing by
Who smites them whistling as he walks
And leaves them sagged and bent to die.
So plants have suffered patiently
In silence—immemorially
—
That day their vast unpitied pain
Took root and blossomed in my brain.
Then letting drop my thought's plummet
Beneath the grass and violet.
Below the tap-root of the fir
I sought to catch the hidden stir
And trace the devious unguessed course
Of darkling water underground,
110] The Literary Style of the Scripts. 373
That like a gleamless tangled skein
Meshes and nets the whole world round
—
Water that is the secret source
Of life to many a lusty tree
(In lands forsaken of the rain)
Which faring men will stop to see
And carry pictured in their brain,
Its goodly full-leaved greenery :
"And ponder over all their days
Such beauty reared in barren ways.
I thought the eye of science spies ^
What earthly eyes will never see
How leagues beneath where water lies
Are miles of moaning mercury ;
A vast deep-set quicksilver sea
Whose skyless surges ring and roar
For ever round earth's crystal core
Whose metalled tumult ceaselessly
Breaks in blind waves that feel no shore.
TRYFAN.
Adam and Eve the climbers caU these stones.
But they are older far than all Earth's bones.
Of their uncharted time one cranny-space
Old Adam's brood entire might well have hid.
Frenzy of fire hurled them to that high place
On awful Tryfan's wind-swept pyramid.
Like closing lids on Day's red swollen eyes
Twin western clouds descend in purple gloom,
Yet leave one long low slit of saffron skies
As blinds half-drawn within a lighted room
Leave bare a pane that opes on paradise.
Now are those presences of stone that loom
^ I probably first got the idea of a subterranean sea of mercury
from the columns of Nature some twenty years ago, where I remember
reading of such a speculation being put forward. Note by Mr. V.
374 Mr. V. [part 110]
So sharply black against the vivid blaze
Lot and his wife who watch old Sodoms bum
Afresh amid the sunsets of new days ?
Or are they dark angels that brooding, turn
Their faces from the sorrowful world to gaze
Afar upon remote humanities
Whose teeming cities and tumultuous seas
Clamour beyond the confines of our world ?
And yet not angels with averted eyes
Or messengers from the immortal skies
But Earth's undated denizens are these,
Time's castaways on this desolate shore
Left stranded from some age of old renown
When Titans stood on all the hills and hurled
Great boulder-stones for quoits in antique play
From height to height across the lonely moor.
These, Time has bowled at last like nine-pins down,
And of those fallen comrades many a poor
Half-buried Titan form is lying prone
Across the wide coombe's crumpled, grassy floor.
Where clawing Earth the mother, devours her own.
What pale Azoic eve or primrose morn
Or blood-red dawn of Ordovician day
Were these from Earth's dark seething womb upborne
By what blind cataclysm who shall say ?
Or what dire hand that swept their mates away
Has left this pair to stand through time forlorn
With frozen thews and sinews of cold stone ?
[First forty lines.]
SOME REINCARNATIONIST AUTOMATIC SCRIPT.
By J. ARTHUR HILL.
In March 1928 the vicar of a north-country parish drew
the attention of the S.P.R. to a case of automatic writing
which seemed to him interesting enough to be investigated
by some member of the Society. Mr. Salter communicated
with me, and I had some correspondence with the vicar,
and two interviews with him and the automatist. After
the first interview I brought home with me a large mass
of the script, or rather of a foolscap fair copy of the
original pencil writing which is difficult to read ; and at
the second interview I discussed the script and asked
questions about the automatist's history and the hke. In
what follows, I give a condensed account of the case.
The correspondence, with fuller extracts, may be consulted
in the files of the Society. It should be said at once
that there seems no need to supjiose any supernormal
agency, and the case is therefore on the borderhne between
psychology and psychical research ; but such cases may
throw fight on the workings of the subfiminal and on its
relation to the suprafiminal, and may accordingly help
us in the study of more purely psychical-research problems.
I am requested to withhold the name and location of the
automatist, lest offence or pain should be caused to
relatives who do not altogether approve of these things.
Mrs. Gary (pseudonym) is a woman of the working class,
aged about fifty. She is of purely British stock—as is her
husband—and her people have been mostly farmers,
though she herself was born in London. She looks healthy
and strong, with the good colour of a countrywoman. She
was the seventh of a large family, and the superstitious
would say that she has the gifts of a seventh child. Her
home fife has been happy, and she has had eight children.
375
376 J. Arthur Hill. [part
Her husband knows of her automatic writing, and is not
much interested, though not hostile. She hved in Russia
from the age of thirteen to twenty-three, her father being
employed out there. She had not much education, but is
intelhgent—above the average, I should say—and has been
a considerable reader. She read Shakespeare pretty
thoroughly when she was a girl, also Scott, Dickens,
Thackeray, Harrison Ainsworth, Marie Corelli, and Theo-
sophical writers ; a rather mixed lot, as with most of us.
Almost the only poetry she has read seems to be the
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam. A diary which she Idndly
lent me shows that from youth she had a tendency to
unusual experiences ; "a subconscious knowledge has
haunted me from earhest childhood, a knowledge that I
have lived before and know much of which I could give
no expression." She also mentions a constant fear that
she was never alone and that someone was just going to
touch her. In the presence of fine scenery she has had
something approaching a mystical experience of the
Jefferies-Whitman kind :
" the glories of a sunrise or sunset,
and I feel my soul expand and I am on the point of
flying toward that which I know lies just beyond, but this
body, this cage, this prison, holds me back, and I must
wait and do my duty to those who have been given into
my care." The death of a son, aged two, in 1914, coupled
with the reading of Omar—according to the diary—seem
to have focussed her thoughts on serious things ; she
attended a spiritualist meeting at which her son was
described and was said to be making a gesture which she
recognised as characteristic, and her grandmother was also
recognisably described. Bi;t her interest turned to Theo-
sophy rather than to Spiritualism, perhaps because of her
early leanings to the idea of reincarnation.
The automatic writing began in September 1923, at first
with a planchette but soon becoming easy with a free
pencil. There are many communicators, but the chief of
them is one Strombrunsen, Overlord of Galicia at a date
not specified. He represents himself as a soul-mate of the
automatist in past incarnations. He has written the story
of his life, and there are other histories or biographies
110] Some Eeincarnationist Automatic Script. 377
concerning other characters. Three of the narratives are
of the length of an average novel. The Strombrunsen
story has been copied in ink from the original scripts
wliich are difficult to decipher, and may have been
touched up in the process ; but the vicar says—and he
has gone through much of the original writing—that when
Mrs. Gary makes any " improvement " in a word or
phrase, she makes it worse, weakening its force. She
writes an introductory note as below :
Strombrunsen, an ego whose work on this earth is
finished, but still is he held to it by strong bonds of love
for his mate whom he is awaiting on the other side.
Her soul is still on this earth inhabiting the body of a
woman of the working class. He knows her spu-it is
flagging behind a dense veil of ignorance which has been
imposed upon her by a higher power for this her last life
on this world, and he in his love and solicitude has gained
permission to unfold to her through the medium of auto-
matic writing a glimmering of the mighty truth of life
eternal by telling of the love, passion, and mistakes that
has (sic) ruled in lives they have lived together on this
world in ages long past.
He tells the stories merely to help over a difficult period
that comes in every woman's life when as often happens
all aspects seem blank and hopeless.
The first readable sentence in the automatic script was :
" Hast thou forgotten Strombrunsen of Strombrunsen in
the forests of Gahcia ?
" The name was new to the
automatist. The writing continued :
" With me was hved
a life, a hfe of misunderstanding sin and sorrow. Thou
didst not love me, but ever from the beginning of time
hast thou dwelt within my soul, my beloved " . . . "My
little one, fear nothing, no harm shall come near thee, I
who love thee will ever gmde and guard thee. Give love
and care to those thou hast in thy charge ;
speak no ill
of anyone ; do all the good thou canst ;
and in the
fullness of time when thou hast learned all the lessons
that are in that world to learn, I shall be waiting for
thee, for thou art mine, my beloved."
2 B
378 J. Arthur Hill. [part
Sometimes no writing came when she tried, sometimes
only a word or two, but sometimes twenty or thirty pages
would be written without a break, and at great speed.
I will quote an early paragraph as an example of style,
and will then summarise the remainder.
I, Eleu Strombrunsen, was born in the castle of Strom-
brunsen in Galicia. My father, Strang Strombrunsen, a
man mighty in stature and power, was killed whilst
hunting when I was ten years of age, leaving me in the
care of a most indulgent mother whose heart was buried
in the grave of him who had been her life. I, being all
that was left of him, in her eyes could do no wrong.
Wilful, headstrong passions were allowed full sway, with
never a restraining hand or voice to say that anything
was wrong. My will was absolute. There was but one
thing that acted as a slight curb on my unruly tempera-
ment, and that was the love I bore my mother, that tall,
pale lady in whose eyes I dreaded to meet the reproof her
lips never uttered.
He describes his youth—hunting, sports, succession to
the overlordship when his mother died—then his disputes
with rulers of adjacent territories, notably a John of
" Draconfel ''
in " Siluria," and an underlord of his own
named Bulstanger, who lived in the north-west. (Draconfel
is sometimes spelt Draconsfel in the script, and probably
both are drawn from recollections of the Drachenfels near
Bonn, which figures in the Nibelungen Lied.) Strombrunsen
describes how a maiden rescues a dog which ran under his
horse's hoofs, and he falls in love with her. She turns
out to be Bulstanger's daughter, Syhlene, who is betrothed
to John of Draconfels. Strombrunsen marries the girl,
worsts Draconfels in battle, and takes his bride home.
She is only a girl of sixteen, she was unwilling to marry,
and she is afraid of Strombrunsen and his violent passions.
Some of the passages in the script at this point are
rather coarse. She escapes and goes home to her father.
Strombrunsen follows, and he kills Bulstanger in fight,
though unintentionally, for he meant to treat him well in
order to win Syhlene's love.
110] Some Reincarnationist Automatic Script. 379
After some years, and the birth of a son, Strombrunsen,
unable to win his wife's love, leaves his castle and goes
roving and fighting with a band of his men. He comes
back after ten years, to find that his wife has become a
nun. He goes after her, breaks into the convent, killing
some of the attendants, and fetches Syhlene back to the
castle. There is a reconcihation ; she had begun to love
him before his departure, but her pride would not let her
say so. And now it is too late ; she is ill and dying.
The Church has excommunicated him for breaking into the
convent, but he fetches a priest by force, to administer
the last rites to his dying wife. Then he kicks the fat
priest out, watches with Syhlene until her spirit passes,
and kills himself with a knife-thrust in the throat. A
postscript to the story, by a retainer and friend named
Boise, tells how Strombrunsen's body was found lying
there. This addition by Boise is curious, seeming to
conform to mundane hterary necessities. If Strombrunsen
were telHng the story himself, as claimed, he could finish
it himself, one would think, for he would presumably
know where and how his body would be found. Syhlene
is of course the automatist in an early incarnation.
Other names occurring in the Strombrunsen story are :
White Melten—the name of the castle—Elsa, Henrich,
Karluchen, Schwartzburgenshof, Borian's Tower, Michael
the Murderer, Henry of Schlangwerten, and Wensel. It
wiU be noticed that there is much mixture of languages
in the names, and that the speUing is sometimes only an
approximation to the probable forms. The automatist
learnt " Httle Russian and no German " while hving in
Russia, but she would inevitably hear scraps of many
languages.
Another writing which describes a horrible crime in some
apparently Scandinavian country, contains the names Ulef
son of Errk, Elkia daughter of Roma, Matuga daughter of
Offa, Olsa son of Errk. Elkia is again the automatist in
an early incarnation. The story is a " thriller," with much
repetition concerning " swart Errk's " " mighty shoulders
"
and the " rolling laughter in his chest." This story
appears to have come in a dream, being written out
380 J. Arthur Hill. [part
afterwards. Probably therefore it shows Mrs. Gary's
conscious mind more or less at work, for the phrasing
would be hers or would pass through her revision.
There is also an account of the last years of the island
of Leonis, which was destroyed by a great tidal wave,
following the eruption of a volcano called " Schehalhon."
The names in this story are Helga the Fair, Toarhn the
Minister, Roanib the King, Foedra—a man cast ashore
after shipwreck—the Priests of Orr, and Albion Mochre
who is the narrator. Mrs. Gary told me that at the time
of this script she did not know that there was a mountain
called Schiehallion in Scotland or indeed anywhere. But
of course she might have known and forgotten.
Then there is a very long story about Tyane, a son of
the King of Oceane. The heroine is one Malieela, and the
names of three of the nobles are Mahgruda Sehan, Teor-
chen Sehan, and Margior Sehan ; the word Sehan being
apparently a title, perhaps suggested by " sahib." There
is a Temple of Aachon, and one of the officials is the
" Keeper of the Jewels of the Seventh Temple." I quote
all these names because they may turn out to have some
hnguistic interest, as in the Helene Smith case described
in Prof. Flournoy's book From India to the Planet Mars.
Other narratives deal with incidents occurring in Egypt
and Greece. There is the story of " Rosa's son "—an
illegitimate child of Strombrunsen's—and his doings during
the ten years of his father's absence. Then a story of
" Speridon BHades of Ascalon." Then other stories, e.g. of
the life of Desaria, another incarnation of the automatist.
These narratives run pretty much on the same hues ;
they
tell of wild times, hunting, fighting, and orgies of drink
and passion. In each case, however, the hero is conscious
that his lower self ought to be mastered by his higher
self, and that love is more than passion. Each story shows
the development of this consciousness in a man of rude
times, and the narratives are strong and of a certain
convincingness, in spite of a tendency to purple passages
which do not always ring quite true. There are scraps of
varioiis languages, including Arabic, but perhaps not more
than the subliminal of anyone might be able to furnish ;
110] Some Reincarnationist Automatic Script. 381
e.g. "nomina non sequ. . .
." " Nuncio pas Vamoria," " Salaam
aleikum," and many German phrases of ordinary character.
The Strombrunsen story seems to belong to the Middle
Ages ; the hero uses the exclamation " Body of Christ,"
but also swears occasionally by the gods of his forefathers,
so perhaps the time is supposed to be early in our era.
I am not aware that any of the Galician or Scandinavian
warriors mentioned in the script are historical characters,
but I have not made any research on the point. The
names were new to the automatist so far as her supra-
liminal consciousness was concerned, so they are either
subliminal debris or subhminal inventions—that is, if we
do not assume that some of the communicators are real
entities in another order of being.
A few historical characters do purport to communicate,
and—as usual in such cases—they are not obscure ones.
Juhus Caesar appears, and the automatist feels that she
is being ordered or reprimanded when he is writing ; his
influence is severe. A Charles writes, who purports to be
Charles the Second ; the automatist feels a jocular in-
fluence from him. It appears that she was his wife in
her incarnation of that period. A drawing produced by
the automatist, with the usual arabesques and fancy
work, represents the Merry Monarch, spaniel and aU. We
must not forget that this appearance of great names has
occurred before, along with real psychic powers, in the
case of Mrs. Piper, who also produced a Julius Caesar.
(Mrs. Cary did not seem to have heard of this, or of Mrs.
Piper. I asked her.) Real communications from another
world must come through the medium's mind in some way,
and—as someone has said—the medium's dreams may " get
in the way," and absurdities may result. However, in this
case of Mrs. Cary's there does not seem to be anything
evidential as in the Piper case. Mrs. Cary's son is cer-
tainly mentioned as communicating, but it is hardly to be
expected that much evidence of identity could be obtained
in such a case.
Mrs. Cary occasionally gets inspirational or automatically
written verse, somewhat after the same kind as the prose,
though not purporting to be written by the same com-
382 J. Arthur Hill. [part
municators. One rather interesting example came as a
sort of vision of the words, seen on the haft of a knife.
One of her children had to compose some original verse
as a home task, and did not know how to begin. Her
mother said :
" Oh, write about anything—a knife, for
instance " (happening to look at a table knife on the
table). She then saw a succession of words on the handle
of the knife, and wrote them down :
A knife ! What, a knife ?
Gramercy on my life.
You'd have me rhyme upon a knife ?
A thing which cuts my loaf of bread,
From fisli and fowl oft strikes the head ;
God's life, a knife ?
Emblem of strife—a knife.
It makes me think of days long past,
When men in hate and fury clasped
The haft in hand, at its command
To slay, and did obey ;
Did slay, and blood. Oh Blood
A crimson flood
Dyed red the ling
And death did sing
A paean of praise to the knife.
Oh Christ, the knife.
Enemy of life—the knife.
Again I see, with vision clear
The ships of Roman and Viking steer
Towards our land,
With knife in hand, dyed red the strand.
Of golden sand ;
And all the while the song of death
Follows the knife with sobbing breath,
The knife, God wot,
Whose life is strife—the knife.
And farther yet I glance in fear
On Druids' altars when the sun draws near,
A priest doth stand, with knife in hand.
110] Some Reincarnationist Automatic Script. 383
A maiden fair,
With golden hair,
To be a sacrifice lies there ;
And all the time the cursed knife
Is gleaming with the lust for life.
Oh God, the knife
Enemy of life—the knife.
^
Mrs. Gary has strong religious instincts, and has had
intuitions of the truth of Christianity. While praying, she
has had visions of Christ. But she does not go to church
or take an interest in any religious institution. Her
religion is very individuaUstic. Still, there is nothing of
the extremist or crank about her ; she is anxious only to
get at the truth. Her automatic writing is a puzzle to
her, and in spite of the pleadings of the chief communi-
cator she does not quite accept what is told her. After
my second talk with her, her doubts seem to have become
stronger—though I had expressed no definite opinion and
had been sympathetic—for the communicator tried to
reassure her, also rather deprecating publicity :
I will repay thy disbelief by telling thee that which shall
be proven. Hurt am I, my little one, that thou canst
entertain doubts of that which I have told thee. Is it
necessary that others should know that truth which I have
told to thee alone ? For thy peace of mind did I come
to thee, knowing that thou wert wearying of the last few
steps along that journey so nearly finished. Believe, my
beloved, believe ! How oft have I bidden thee do that,
and yet dost thou doubt ? I cannot do more just yet to
prove to thee that which I have told was granted to me
as a reward, a little acknowledgment for the work I have
done. To me was that boon granted when I asked for it,
the boon to communicate with thee and to aid thee
along that road thou art traversing with lagging footsteps.
I begged that boon, my little one, my beloved, and thou
doubtest the truth which I have told thee ! Therefore I
bid thee once more, fear nothing, and believe.
^
Cf. some verses obtained by automatic writing or between sleeping
and waking, by Mrs. Verrall ;
Proceedings, vol. 20, pp. 65-6, 362-5.
384 Arthur Hill. [part
There are occasional episodes in which conflicting
communicators are concerned. For example :
Aflaha Retief Refusis (or Refusis Aflaha, for the name
is variously given) Lord of the Seven Stars, Master of all
the Mysteries of Egypt, Ruler of the destinies of men,
flung from the height of his power to the depths of
impotency to wander in the dark with the full knowledge
of his power and yet imable to use it. Ages have passed
since the sin was committed which sent him hurling from
the heights he had striven to attain, to wander ever in
darkness until the time when she whom he had sinned
against (sentence unfinished).
Then there came a drawing of a man in Arab headdress,
and in large letters at the side was :
Refusis hlesindbah Afleehla on the banks of the Nile go
back to your life if (scrawl) Alleahlegleemshabolstallenskem-
staasenenwishing to know
Put the book away and listen to me I will be there
where you wish me to be always I love you and you must
guard against allowing yourself to get in touch with un-
desirables I will guard you but you must help us Jn
(scrawl, wavy line across paper)
Alec is here Mama with you is very bad form you must
not allow to speak to you and pray to go away your
friend will guard you all they can but you too must help
by not allowing to speak Eleuling Strombrunsen wishes
you to put this book away and give no opportunity to
evil to write. All will be well, nothing shall harm you.
A curious thing is that this Refusis is represented as an
Egyptian incarnation of Strombrunsen, Charles being
another ;
yet all communicate as independent entities, and
Strombrunsen says that Refusis is wholly evil and that
the automatist must have nothing to do with him. How
far their memories are identical or overlapping or distinct,
is uncertain. Strombrunsen seems to know all about the life
of Refusis, and is indeed the chief communicator. One is re-
minded of B 3 in Dr. Morton Prince's case of Miss Beauchamp.^
1 Myers's -f/wwan Personality, vol. i., pp. 341-52, and Proceedings S.P.R.,
vol. 15, pp. 466-83.
110] Some Reincarnationist Automatic Script. 385
The writing is automatic in what may be called an
average sense. The extreme form is that in which the
automatist knows notliing of what is being written, not
even the word or letter that is being formed. Stainton
Moses could read a book while his hand wrote. On the
other hand, some automatists are aware of the sense of
what is being written. In Mrs. Gary's case the automatist
is aware of each word as it is being written, but each
word fades from her memory as the next is begun. She
has no knowledge of the meaning of a sentence until she
reads it over. She cannot get the writing at will, or when
anyone else is present ; it requires sohtude and quiet.
Before the writing begins she has no knowledge of what
will come. I asked her whether she ever dreamt about
the characters who had appeared . in the script, and she
said that this had happened only two or three times in
the five years. Apparently the writing stratum is not the
dreaming str^-tum.
As to the reincarnationist teaching of the script, it may
be noted that Mrs. Gary joined the Theosophical Society
in 1925, but this was two years after the script began and
many years after the beginning of her interest in reincar-
nation, so the teaching is not the result of local influence.
Indeed she is not at all an enthusiastic Theosophist,
although a member.
What has been said will have reminded the reader of
the case of Patience Worth, studied by Dr. Walter F.
Prince.^ Mrs. Gary's communicators are more varied, and
perhaps show less originality and pungency ; but in both
cases there are long and well-constructed narratives, with
a richness of out-of-the-way detail which is quite beyond
anything that the automatist could do by conscious effort.
This, however, is no proof of outside agency. Indeed,
conscious effort seems to have very little to do with
literary creation. F. W. H. Myers says that genius is a
subhminal uprush ; and anyone who has written much,
whether fiction or anytiling else, is no doubt aware that
liis thoughts " come " from some source other than his
1 The Case of Patience Worth, by Dr. W. F. Prince. (Boston Society
for Psychic Research, 1927.)
386 J. Arthur Hill. [part
conscious or supraliminal mental levels. They are not
produced in the same way as the conclusion of a syllogism
or the end of a calculation. Perhaps all creation is
subhminal. Stevenson used to dream his plots. If he
could have geared his subliminal to the fingers of his right
hand, he might have written his stories automatically. On
the other hand we must not altogether exclude the
possibihty of communication from some other mind,
incarnate or discarnate, by automatic writing ; but we
must not accept that supposition without good evidence
shown.
It may be provisionally held, by those who wish to
theorise, that the case under review is of the nature of
a compensatory phantasy ; an elaborate piece of fiction
composed by the automatist's subliminal and presented as
fact to the supraliminal, as a set-off to the dullness of
ordinary life. On this view it would have analogies with
day-dreaming and with our identification of ourselves with
this or that character in a novel as we read it ;
probably
most fiction readers do this to a greater or less extent,
though for the most part without reaUsing it. It is a
wholesome way of escape from the trivial round, the
common task, of everyday life. On the other hand there
is always danger in these self-exaltations. We are wisely
warned against thinking of ourselves more highly than we
ought to think. And there does seem to be a tendency,
in automatic script, for great names to appear and flattering
things to be said ;
generally the automatist is to be the
channel of a new and great revelation. The great claims
and the flattering things may be true, but it is well to
go slowly and to maintain a critical temper. Nor indeed
is it well to accept too easily the current subhminal
" explanations." In most of these cases there are features
which are not thus explicable satisfactorily to the critical
mind.
Perhaps the wisest course, at present, is to record these
cases without attempting a theory which may be pre-
mature.
We know very little yet about the workings of the mind,
particularly in its subliminal levels, or about discarnate
110] So7ne Reincarnationist Automatic Script. 387
intelligences if such there be ; and premature theorising
might block the way to real advance. It is best to
accumulate data in the hope that by study thereof we may
be led in the right direction and may eventually attain
some true insight into these puzzling phenomena and their
implications. Our thanks are due to those who supply us
with such data ;
and, if they are inevitably disappointed
with our inability to explain the experiences, they may
at least rest assured that their contribution is bringing
nearer the time when such explanation will be possible.
EEVIEWS
I.
" A Case of Apparent Obsession : And its Treatment on the
Assumption that the Obsessing Entities are to be taken
at their Face Vahies." An article by Geoffrey C. H.
Burns/ M.D., in the Journal of the American Society for
Psychical Research, June-August, 1928.
A REVIEW usually serves two purposes : (1) to give the reader
a fairly adequate conception of the contents of the book or
article under consideration, (2) to criticise or estimate the value
of those contents, according to the standards of the reviewer.
Allowing that Dr. Burns has properly sifted out the basic
facts, which there appears no reason to question, the present
reviewer is so far in accord with his argument and conclusions
as to confine himself mostly to making a digest of the case-
description and discussion.
After adverting to the antiquity of attempts to cure disease
by occult means, the new impetus given to such attempts in
our time in connection with sijiritistic beliefs, and to the general
opprobrium visited upon such experimentation by the medical
fraternity but defied by a very few physicians, notably Dr.
Titus Bull of New York,^ the author proceeds to attack the
problem before him.
This is to study " the medical and spiritistic phenomena
"
in one of Dr. Bull's cases, and to ascertain how far his
" methods were effective or adequate to the results ; in what
' Dr. Burns served in New York State Hospitals as a psychiatrist for
nearly twenty years and was in the United States Army during the war.
He is now in private practice.
^ Alumnus of New York University and Bellevue Medical College,
member of the American Medical Association and those of the county
and city of New York, member of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, etc.
388
[part 110] Reviews. 389
way these methods corresponded with, or deviated from, other
similar methods, and if the results obtained were due to the
ascribed methods or to some other, as yet, undetermined
factor " and " to what extent, if any, the elements of fake
or chance."
The " J.D." case is pronounced by the investigator (Dr.
Burns) to be one of " Alcoholic Psychosis, Chronic Hallucina-
tory Type." Such is one of poor prognosis, although a few
patients become fairly adjusted to ordinary environmental
conditions. The material consisted of fifty-two records of
seances, delivered carte blanche for examination, together with
subsequent cross-examination of the patient, and miscellaneous
gleanings of facts. The sittings, with a medium and the
patient together with the doctor, averaged about three a month,
with an interval of nineteen months beginning March 1924, and
another of three months beginning June 1926.
J.D. is of Irish birth and stock, forty-one years old, and
thinks he came to America in his sixteenth year, although the
date given for the arrival does not agree. His work for years
has been loading and delivering milk, beginning daily at 1 a.m.
He began to drink at twenty, and has been considerably
addicted to the habit, and at times intoxicated. Before and
since his married life, his sexual habits have been free, but
the Wasserman test was negative in 1926. Of moderate
ambition and without desire for self-improvement, his self-
distrust has made him decline promotions which would have
increased responsibility. He is inclined to lose his temper and
is emotionally unstable. A Roman Catholic himself, of undevout
habits, in 1906 he married an Episcopalian, with whom he
claims to have lived happily, although she sometimes scolded
him for drinking, but never to the point of producing quarrels.
There were five children, of whom three boys survive. The
wife died in 1919.
His bereavement brought about a depressed condition, and
he drank heavily for more than a year. In July 1920 he
decided to quit drinking. The very next morning he woke to
hear faint voices apparently near his right ear. At first these
gave him advice about his children. But as time went on the
voices grew louder and louder, menacing, vicious and obscene.
They threatened calamities to himself, his children and even
390 Reviews. [part
his dead wife, saying the speakers had her in their power.
^When about to open a freight car, he would hear that his
wife and children were inside. Finally he was hearing about
seven or eight different voices, none of which he recognised as
that of anyone whom he had known. At times they seemed
to fight for and against him, with a babble of sounds. He
became fearful of them, especially at the sleeping hour, when
they were the worst. His dreams were often terrifying or of
a disgusting character. Occasionally, while awake, he saw
phantoms.
Shortly after his wife's death he began to go to Spiritualist
meetings and to get purported messages from her. He acquired
considerable interest in such and a degree of belief. Not once
in four years did he go to a doctor or a clinic. In September
1924 he heard of Dr. Bull and went to him. Up to January
1925 he was treated by suggestion and medicine. During this
period there was considerable general improvement ; his sleep,
which at the beginning of the treatment averaged but two hours in
twenty-four, improved, and the voices became less annoying. At
first he was sympathetic and co-operative with the physician.
But his co-operation later decreased, and when experiments with
the medium began he did not extend the same sympathy to her.
He declares that at no time did he, directly or indirectly, give
any information to her, or to anyone who could have conveyed
it to her.^ He lost his confidence in Spiritualism, mostly at
least, because of the slow progress of his amelioration, although
he admitted that the medium said about him many true things,
which fact he ascribed to mind-reading.
Beginning in September 1926, he went four times to the
clinic of the New York Neurological Institute, and claims to
have received no benefit, though the records disjjute this. In
January 1927 he went to the Vanderbilt Clinic, and claimed to
be dissatisfied with that also.
A large number of " entities " manifested through the
1 In view of Dr. Burns s later statement that the patient's word was
not entirely reliable, the character of the medium herself is a better
guarantee. I knew her and others who had known her longer. She
belongs to an excellent family, is a lady of intelligence who was a
teacher for years, and, while some might think her fanciful or distrust
her judgment, I do not believe that her veracity will be questioned.
110] Reviews. 391
medium. Aside from sporadic and vague appearances they were
about forty-three in number thus classified by Dr. Burns :
1. Obsessors, seven or eight in number; 2. Workers, their
object to help the patient, about twenty-four ; 3. Relatives of
the patient or his family, seven ; 4. Incidentals, who can
hardly be said to have any particular purpose, about nine.
The purported obsessors in the case were: 1. A "silly girl,"
apparently epileptic ; 2. " Gyp," a criminal whose crimes and
execution were described in the newspapers some years ago ;
3. "Ed. Mason" of the underworld; 4. " Al," a dope fiend;
5. A male, apparently unnamed ; 6. " Joe " or " John,"
'
supposed to be an Italian alcoholic ; 7. a " simple woman ;
"
8. a syphilitic woman.
None of these was known to the patient, except that he of
course must have heard of Gyp. And none of them, it appears,
was identified by him as one of the producers of his obsessing
voices. So far as the examples of their talk through the
medium are given by Dr. Burns, it does not seem to me
evident that they have essentially different styles of speech.
Of course certain verbal tags are introduced to suit the pre-
sumed character. Even the imaginative child could accomplish
that. Thus " Gyp " says " damned " and calls policemen
" bulls " as the Saturday Evening Post has taught us that
"yeggs" do. So "bambino" is ascribed to the supposed
Italian, and " achushla " and " worrah " to the Mother, belong-
ing to another class. But "Gyp" and "Silly Girl" and
"John" and "Mother" and "Wife" appear all to talk in
a like choppy, ejaculatory fashion. It may be that this is
partly because only scraps could be taken down, but the fact
remains that any evidence from disparate styles of speech is
scanty.
It is intimated that some of the family entities, and declared
that the " Mother," unintentionally hurt the patient in their
efforts to remain near and ward off harmful spirits. The
investigator thinks, and we shall probably agree with him, that
granting the theory of obsession this could have been so.
Nor is this the first time that such a claim has been made ;
notably, in Dr. Hyslop's experiments with Doris as a sitter,
her " Mother " claimed to have discovered that her over-
solicitude had been of injury. But as most probably the
392 Reviews. [part
medium in the J.D. case had read Dr. Hyslop's report, we are
unable to give weight to this agreement.
The " workers " formed a numerous and incongruous group,
" one or two " popes, " at least " nine professors, three presi-
dents of the United States, two Indians, an Oriental physician
an " atzee " (whatever that is), " Imperator " and others. If
we could only isolate one medium from previous knowledge
of that winged sage Imperator, and get messages from him
through her ! The " William James " in this case may really
be the spirit of the Harvard professor, although if he is mani-
festing with all the automatic writers and talkers who claim
him, he must possess the attribute of omnipresence in a degree
only less than divine. Although, as we shall see, the characters,
or some of them, appear to have given a variety of evidence
related to the patient, it is not shown that any of them
furnished any particular evidence to establish their own identity
as persons who had lived on the earth, unless it was the wife,
who gave her name, a fairly accurate description of her death,
and a significant fact or two which had happened in her
lifetime.
The investigator, discussing the theory that all this drama
originates in the subconscious, agrees that perhaps this may
be the case, but thinks it " difficult to conceive of her [the
medium] carrying through so many different entities and keep-
ing them as well separated as she has done." Although
perhaps more impressed with the evidence in general for
communicating " entities " than Dr. Burns, I confess that I
am not so much impressed by this particular species of evidence
as he. If the forty-three " entities " had been brought forward
the first week, the difficulty of remembering all and keeping
them distinct would be beyond question. But if one by one
came forward in the course of two or more years, I do not
see why they could not have been remembered and kept
separate as an actor is able to remember and resume at will
a multitude of roles. There are pianists who can play many
pieces, each with its individual and complicated pattern of
finger-movements, while carrying on a conversation. I know,
one who jingles scores of them at a Boston " movie theatre,"
with his head over his shoulder much of the time, as he
curiously scans the audience. Let there be formed in the
110] Reviews. 393
subconscious a picture of each character in the gradually
increasing company, with a brief concept of character and
characteristics attached, and each would suggest, every time
it rose, appropriate tags of speech to correspond. Besides, the
remark that at times entities " seemed to overlap " indicates
that they were not always kept separate.
The investigator thinks that should we say they [the
entities] were all products of the medium's mind, conscious or
subconscious, we are giving her credit for an enormous number
of conflicts." Well, why not, if we are to accept the extremest
psychoanalytic theory that all creations of fiction, poetry and
art are determined by complexes and conflicts ? If, on the
contrary, the scores of fictitious " entities " who talk and
act each after his own fashion in the pages of a Dickens are
not thus deterministically inevitable, but are to a large extent due
to free creative fancy, the same could be true of the medium.
But if the investigator is convinced that the entities " fitted
so well into the moods and experiences of the patient " he is
certainly right in declaring that " this is something which we
have yet to explain," and in intimating that this is very hard
to explain on the theory that what was going on in the medium's
mind had no real relation to what had happened during the
latter years of the patient's experience.
This is the point which I have found so difficult to persuade
my psychoanalyst friends, earnestly bent on their well-trodden
path, to glance at and discover. A purported communicator
through a medium says, inter alia, that she had a cat named
" Mephistopheles," at the same time lets slip the name
" Teddy," and declares that shortly before death deceased
relatives were present in her room helping her, and that after
her death the secretary of the seances (whose office, as the
medium knew, was in the same building with the rooms of
the communicator's family) sometimes, after washing her hands,
went and looked at her picture. The psychoanalyst says, " If
I could have the opportunity and take the time to analyse
the medium, I am sure I could account for all these mental
images by her experiences in the past, that I could evoke
their origins from the unconscious." And I verily believe that,
give him time and patience, he would be able to present a
pretty appearance of success. Some time or other, by the
2 0
394 Reviews. [part
lanes of free association, which can touch any of millions of
little experiences of a lifetime, he might find that she once saw
a cat in a fit, that " acted like the devil." That Theodore
Roosevelt, popularly called " Teddy," had been much admired
by her. That she cherished grateful recollections of the tender
care lavished upon her by relatives when she was ill. That
she had a mother-fixation. And the corroboratory and
cumulative significance of the annexed allusion to water, that
well-known maternal symbol ! Granted that these or other
plausibilities could be found by ingenuity and industrious
searching, yet they would not avail in the least to explain the
actual and literal (not constructive and metaphorical) corres-
pondence of the statements to external facts unknown to the
medium. The facts were that the last cat ever owned by the
communicator, many years ago, ivas named Mephistopheles, that
one of the only two dogs ever owned in her household was
named Teddy, that she did a few days before her death tell
her foster-daughter that (deceased) relatives had been in her
room assisting her, and that the secretary had often gone up
into the rooms of her family after her death, and (after
performing certain services for her daughter) washed her hands
and then gazed earnestly at the communicator's portrait as she
passed it. Dr. Burns is logically warranted in regarding so
many correspondences between the utterances of the medium
and facts related to the patient as exceedingly difficult to
explain without recourse to occult agencies or processes. He
thus puts it :
" Telepathy, television, telaudience, may explain
parts of this but neither is a logical explanation of the whole,
nor will they put together be much more satisfactory. We are
still left with our problem unsolved."
Leaving correspondences to " moods " aside, in relation to
which category the investigator does not render much assistance,
let us give a little attention to the correspondences with
" experiences." But seeing that in nearly all instances we are
dependent upon the word of the patient J.D., and we have
been told that " he may not be considered absolutely reliable,"
what guarantee have we of the facts ? When we learn that
no grounds developed for considering him unduly suggestible,
that he acknowledged the truth of statements not at all to
his credit (and, I may interject, no reasons appear for ascribing
no] Reviews. 395
ulterior motives to his denial of other statements), that his
temporary interest in Spiritualism soon waned and became
distaste, that the sympathy between him and Dr. Bull was not
extended to the medium, and that he became dissatisfied
because of the slowness in the improvement of his health, we
may agree with Dr. Burns in feeling that " he may be in
nearly all instances accepted as honest."
One important set of statements, which cannot be called
likely, was indeed established independently of the patient.
These, scattered through seances 30 to 43, referred to a dis-
eased genito-urinal condition. The patient denied having had
such a trouble, and Dr. Bull found no reason, aside from the
mediumistic statements, for suspecting it. On the strength of
these statements, however, he sent J.D. to a surgeon unaffi-
liated with himself. The correspondences between what the
" messages " had said and what the surgeon found may be
thus condensed :
Medium :
" Physical condition to be cleared up . . . Genito-
urinary " (Verified by surgeon's examination). M. " Not a
serious condition " {Dr. K " Mild "). M. " A constriction
"
{Dr. K. "A slight snugness in the posterior urethra ... I
would advise '
dilatation '
"). M.
" Constriction increased by
a slight inflammation " {Dr. K. " Urethritis "). M. " Insistence
that this condition should be attended to " {Dr. K. Regarded
this as advisable, and gave fifteen local treatments within the
next few months).
Another class of statements is protected from the suspicion
of too much acquiescence in the replies of the patient, by the
disclosures he had made to Dr. Bull before the medium was
called in. The medium in the early sittings declared that
J.D. had been afraid to go to sleep, that he heard words
ordering him to do things against his inclination, that voices
also threatened him, that he had been addicted to drink, that
he had been injuriously affected by his social habits, etc.
Unfortunately we are not told whether or not this was the
medium's first work for Dr. Bull, but even though she knew
that the patient had more than usual likelihood of being
subject to hallucinations or hysterical symptoms she seems,
from what we are told, to have hit the nail with impressive
accuracy, a number of times.
396 Reviews. [part
Besides the foregoing, Dr. Burns lists some fifty " examples "
of true statements, regarding the patient's peculiar experiences,
his relations to his children and to other persons, to his deceased
wife, etc. Part of these purported to come directly from
" entities " and part from " impressions " received by the
medium. Some of them were very specific. That twice since
the last sitting he had been influenced by other men to drink,
with three or four days between. That his " boss " had com-
plimented him, and that the same man had a bad temper and
disobeyed a rule not to smoke at the place of work. That
the patient heard no voices for four days, the fifth and sixth
day heard voices, and thereafter no more to the date of
sitting. That he had wakened feeling a whirling sensation,
followed by a sense of freedom. There are many statements
of peculiar symptomatic experiences, some of them assigned
to the influence of particular obsessors, and often with designa-
tion of the time they occurred or the length of their duration,
followed by the patient's acknowledgment. The deceased wife's
name was given, the manner of her death described fairly well.
It was also correctly stated that J.D. vised to cry when he
had done things not right, and that he no longer had her
picture (it had been lost). Many facts were given about his
boys, of specific and in part of fairly striking character.
Dr. Burns says that in all more than sixty impressions and
upwards of a hundred direct statements of controls in reference
to the patient and his contemporaneous environment proved
correct, and that there were only eleven such false statements,
which he lists. By letter he informs me that the impressions
and statements referred to are differentiated ones.
Thus this case seems to have developed, making all allow-
ances for possible inferences, a considerable body of evidence
for the display of knowledge on the part of the medium which
could not have been acquired in ordinary ways. In this
respect I probably rate it more highly than does Dr. Burns,
but on the assumption that the records were carefully kept and
that he subjected both them and other sources to a rigid
examination. On the contrary, scientific proof that the entities,
other than the wife, were the persons whom they claimed to
be is almost entirely lacking. In this respect the case reported
in Bulletin IX. of the Boston Society for Psychic Research,
110] Reviews. 397
wherein the same medium is concerned, is in a much more
fortunate position. There the mediumistic descriptions of
" entities " and other statements concerning them found many
correspondences with known facts regarding deceased persons
and with apparitions seen by living persons.
And now as to the therapeutical results. The man is not
cured. His condition is greatly ameliorated. Instead of a
babel of voices he now hears but three ;
they no longer order
and threaten him but instead seem to argue over him ^ so that
only their presence annoys him ; he is no longer troubled in
his work or his sleep.
^
What is the sigmficance of this improvement ? It is im-
possible not to agree with Dr. Burns that we can draw no
certain conclusions from it, since patients of this type some-
times " arrive at a stage of relative adjustment " after the
ordinary modes of treatment.
And I agree, substantially, with what I esteem the most
important of the investigator's general conclusions, based on
this case.
That it contains no definite proof that spirits were obsessing
this patient, though, were spirit communication an independently
established fact, there is sufficient evidence in the case to make
that theory a plausible one. That there was no sufficient proof
that any of the " entities " was the person that he or she
claimed to be, though the mother came the closest to that
point.
That " the experiment does not add anything to pre-existing
evidence regarding proof of after-life and spirit return.^ It
does contain sufficient indications of its possibility to warrant
further effort along this line."
' So in tlie case of Mrs. Latimer (Bulletin VI. of Boston S.P.R.) the
period of a threatening voice was followed by one of voices apparently
contending about her, but this was abruptly ended by the declaration
that she was now free, which proved to be the case.
^ Thus far the printed report, but a recent enquiry develops the fact
that all annoyance has now ceased, although " very occasionally " a
voice is heard, and the patient may be " considered as recovered from
his psychosis."
^ I should have to differ but very slightly. The most of the super-
normal knowledge displayed was of a character lending it with special
plausibility to the theory that it was gained telepathically from living
persons, particularly the patient.
398' Reviews. [part
That there were an impressive number of statements made,
indicative of some source of supernormal knowledge, and that
the particular description of a diseased bodily condition un-
known to any living person made that the most puzzling of all.
That the bringing to knowledge of concealed morbid physical
conditions was of value to the case.
That " there can be no doubt of the improvement of the
mental condition of the patient," but to what extent, if any,
" spirits " aided to bring about improvement, cannot be
determined, since " treatment along accepted lines " sometimes
brings similar improvement, and the principles of such regular
treatment were also applied in this case.
" That such further efforts should be carried on with the
strictest care and precision." The reviewer, while agreeing that
this should be the case, doubts if there is a single willing
experimenter in the country financially equipped so that he
could keep in employ five persons in addition to himself to
take the designated parts in such experiments.
And that " such work deserves encouragement. Such experi-
ments carried on with singleness of purpose but, yet, with a
willingness to follow leads wherever they may indicate, will
surely result in something of worth. If the study of abnormal
psychology helps to solve some of the problems of mind, if the
study of multiple personality teaches, then, being a variant
from the normal, the phenomena here studied should be able
to add its quota to solving the question '
what is mind ? '
"
The views expressed in the last paragraph seem to the
reviewer wise. What we want is the testing of all claims
which present any credentials, lest we miss a part of the truth,
whether the truth is according to surface appearance or dis-
guised. What is all-important is to experiment, as Edison
tirelessly experimented in another field. Scientific experimenta-
tion even to test an unlikely theory should never be deemed
disreputable. Experimentation, when it does no harm, generally
discloses some item of knowledge which may be turned to good.
If experimentation on the theory of obsession damaged the
condition of patients, if in this case it had increased the
number and viciousness of the voices, as theoretically it might
have done, it would deserve abandonment and condemnation.
But, so far as is known, such experiments by qualified physi-
110] Reviews. 399
cians or psychologists, do no harm. It is something to learn
that. On the other hand, evidence is mounting that in many
cases, on whatever operating principles, they have done good.
The final result may at least be the discovery of improved
therapeutical methods as applied to this obstinate class of
morbid conditions.
Walter Franklin Prince.
II.
The Margery Cross-Correspondences.
Dr. Mark Wyman Richardson, one of the intimate supporters
of the Margery mediumship, has recently published in Psychic
Research (as the old Journal of the American S.P.R. is now
called) a series of articles entitled " Experiments in Thought
Transference with Margery and Other Mediums as Percipients,
and Walter and Other Controls as Agents, New Evidence is
Presented for the Independence of the Control Personalities."
These articles appeared in the issues for May, June, July, and
September 1928, ^ and in July 1928 a summary of their con-
tents, also over Dr. Richardson's name, was published in the
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science,
Ltd. This last article bore the same title as the American
series, but a somewhat amended sub-title.^ The issue contain-
ing it was widely distributed through the post among the
Members and Associates of the S.P.R. by Dr. Crandon. The
publicity thus given to these records may in itself justify, apart
from other considerations, an attempt to evaluate the evidence
put forward in them.
This evidence, brought forward as resulting from experiments
in thought-transference, presents the latest and in many ways
the most interesting development in the Margery mediumship,
which has become by far the most comprehensive and versatile
^ These four articles will be here cited as respectively i, ii, iii, iv,
followed by the nuniber of the page and a letter indicating the column.
^ There are some minor variations between the American and the
English texts. But as the latter may have been printed without Dr.
Richardson's immediate supervision, we will not take these variations
into account, and will use the original articles only.
^00 Reviews. [part
on record. This type of evidence was first brought into
prominence by Mrs. Verrall in her notable paper " On a Series
of Automatic Writings," forming vol. xx of Proceedings (1906).i
It has therefore been before students of psychical research for
over twenty years ; but we believe we are right in saying that
this is the first time during the whole of that period that any
substantial body of phenomena, even remotely resembling the
S.P.R. cross-correspondences, has been produced outside the
S.P.R.2 The appearance of this series of articles is therefore
of considerable interest to those who beheve that the S.P.E.
cross-correspondences form perhaps the most important body of
evidence bearing on the problem of survival. At the same
time we must not allow this gratification to prevent us from
examining as closely, and criticising as unsparingly, this evidence
produced outside the Society, as we examine and criticise that
produced within it.
It is proper to point out at the outset that the Margery
cross-correspondences are very different from those of the S.P.R.
The latter are taken from a mass of rambling material produced
for the most part spontaneously, they straggle over years, and
display many loose ends. The former are experimentally pro-
duced, they are compact, slick, and observe the unities of time.
Thus the Margery phenomena are much easier to study, much
easier to record, and, it may be added, much easier to plan
than are those of the S.P.R. And this we certainly do not
put forward as an objection ; on the contrary, it would be
unreasonable to expect all communicators to produce and all
groups of investigators to elucidate material as full of historical,
literary, and classical allusions as the S.P.R. scripts. Indeed,
we welcome this simplification and the wide publicity given to
these phenomena if only because they may attract a few indi-
viduals to a study of the records published by the S.P.R.
But there is another difference between the two sets of
phenomena, and this time a vital difference. The case for the
S.P.R. cross -correspondences rests ultimately on the bona fides
1 The name " cross-correspondence " is however slightly older : see
Mr. J. G. Piddington's paper "On the Types of Phenomena displayed
m Mrs. Thompson's Trance," Proc. S.P.R. (1904), xviii. 294.
'The cross-correspondence reported by Dr. Geley were on a much
smaller scale (Contribution d VHude des correspondences croisees [Paris 1914]).
uo] Revieivs. 401
of the automatists and of those who study and pubHsh the
material produced by them, and it has been freely admitted
that substantially similar results could be obtained by fraudu-
lent collusion between the S.P.R. automatists and commentators.
The aim of Dr. Richardson, on the other hand, was to dis-
cover a fraud-proof technique for the production of cross-
correspondences. Thus, he writes at the outset, after discussing
the validity of any theory of fraud, that " The first requisite
... is to fiu-nish a device upon which Walter [Margery's
control] could, in the dark, indicate a specific number, in such
a fashion that even were Margery conscious she could not know
what this number was. Such a device was found . . .
"
(i. 256a). The attempt to anticipate sriticism, failing a general
consensus of opinion as to the bona fides of the persons con-
cerned, by making the experiment fraud-proof, is of course
altogether praiseworthy. But the making of such an attempt
is an invitation to judge the evidence produced purely on the
basis of the reliability or otherwise of the methods of control
used, apart from any questions of good faith. Dr. Richardson
very frankly directs the reader's attention to this {e.g. ii. 3556).
Our first duty, therefore, is to inquire whether the procedure
adopted was in reality fraud-proof, as Dr. Richardson claims, or
rather whether the evidence as presented to the reader by Dr.
Richardson demonstrates it to have been fraud-proof. We shall
have occasion to indicate later certain deficiencies in the evi-
dence as presented which are from this point of view serious.
It may be convenient at this point to remind readers who
have not followed the history of the Margery case in detail,
that " Margery " is Mrs. Crandon's mediumistic pseudonym, and
that when in trance she piu-ports to be controlled by her dead
brother, Walter. Dr. Richardson explains (i. 256a) that it
occurred to him that Walter should give " post-hypnotic " sug-
gestions to Margery whilst she was in trance. Now, however
convinced Dr. Richardson may be of the independent existence
of Walter, it is not possible to say to which of two personali-
ties (Walter and Margery) operating through one physical
organism (Mrs. Crandon) are to be attributed any supernormal
powers of cognition which Mrs. Crandon may manifest in trance,^
1 This has been recognised in the case of the "book-tests" given
through Mrs. Leonard.
402 Reviews. [part
and any attempt to demonstrate the influence of "hypnotic"
suggestions by Walter on Margery is a manifest impossibility.
To return to Dr. Richardson's description of his fraud-proof
device : this took the shape of a perpetual calendar, having an
exposed figure which could be changed by turning a knob at
the side. " If some sitter first turns this handle arbitrarily in
the dark seance-room, and if the calendar is then passed over
to Walter who turns it further, neither Walter nor the other
person can normally know, save by pre-arrangement, what
number is brought into view" (i. 256 a-6). This is quite true,
although even here, it will be noticed, we are asked to make
an assumption : the absence of pre-arrangement. Such an
assumption, we need hardly point out, can have no place in a
fraud-proof technique. But, if the assumption be made, this
device has considerable merits. Dr. Richardson, however, hav-
ing made this interesting suggestion, at once drops it, and
proceeds to say a few lines lower, " It was my proposal that
Walter, himself, in the dark, turn the calendar ..." (i. 2566).
This calendar was abandoned altogether after the first sitting
in favour of "a daily calendar with individual sheets, numbers
1 to 31, suspended on metal rings ..." (i. 2596), the change
being made at Walter s request because he " disliked to touch
metal with his terminals " (i. 2596). Is it suggested that this
change made the procedure less open to fraud ?
To the calendar Dr. Richardson added six white cards, on
each of which he drew a simple geometrical figure. It was
proposed that Walter turn the calendar to any number, and
that he select one of the six cards. Walter was then to put
the calendar and the card into a box. " At the end of the
sitting, while Margery was still in trance, he was to indicate
silently to her the number and the figure which he had selected
and cognised . . . downstairs, after the seance, Margery would
then try, by process more or less analogous to automatic writ-
ing, to draw the figure and write the number ; and the element
of post-hypnotic timing was to be introduced by Walter sug-
gesting to her that she do this after the lapse of a number of
minutes indicated by the calendar number chosen by him
"
(i. 2566). We need not repeat that it is quite impossible, by
any such procedure, to prove the independence of Walter.
Later it occurred to Dr. Richardson to wonder whether these
110] Reviews. 403
experiments might not be carried out with two or more
mediums. The procedure adopted will emerge from a summary
of a typical case. On the 17th of February 1928, Margery
gave a sitting at her house in Boston in the presence of twelve
persons, of whom four were " slightly back of the main circle
"
(ii. 354a). Dr. Crandon and Dr. Richardson sat at either side
of Margery. "A new sheaf of calendar pages had been brought
in together with a new set of geometrical cards. These were
shuffled before the sitting by Miss Silsbee, and were then put
in her custody in a closed box. Later, when instructed to
do so, she placed this box on the seance table ; and when
Walter had indicated that he was finished with the contents,
she put the cover on and the covered box again remained in
her charge, until opened in due course after the seance
"
(ii. 354a). Walter announced that he " would make up a
problem," to which two other psychics, Valiantine in New
York and Hardwicke at Niagara Falls " would each give half
the answer " (ii. 354a-6). Walter then " worked over " the
contents of the box, this part of the sitting ending at 9.40,
and the group went downstairs. There Margery wrote "11x2="
and " to kick a dead " (ii. 3546) : the writing began at 10.5,
and at 10.38 the box was opened. In it were found, in that
order, the calendar sheet bearing the number 11, a geome-
trical card bearing an x, and the calendar number 2. At 10.50
Dr. Crandon telephoned to New York and was informed that
Valiantine, sitting in that city, had said at 9.40, " The Kid is
out ah-eady " (ii. 355a). Between 9.57 and 9.59 he had written,
"2—No one ever stops to—Walter " (ii. 355a). At 11.49 the
Boston group received a telegram from Niagara Falls reading :
" Nine forty five—H O stop R stop S E 2 " (ii. 3556). This
referred to the script produced by Dr. Hardwicke sitting at
Niagara Falls.i It will be seen that Walter had thus faithfully
carried out his promise, the three mediums between them having
produced the equation 11x2=22, and the phrase, "No one
ever stops to (to) kick a dead horse."
Dr. Richardson comments on this episode as follows (ii. 3556) :
"It is of some importance that this spontaneous subject matter
1 Although the telegram seems to indicate that the script was pro-
duced at 9.45, we are told in the text (ii. 3.55o) that tlie medium did
not go into trance until 9.50.
404 Reviews. [part
[the " dead horse " sentence], which could have been a matter
of pre-arrangement between the mediums, was coupled in the
same experiment with the elements chosen in the seance room,
which could not have been pre-arranged." " Could not " are
strong words ;
how far are they justified by Dr. Richardson's
report ? Supposing it had been pre-arranged that Valiantine
and Hardwicke should each write the figure 2, all that was
necessary at Boston was that one of thirteen persons sitting in
a dark room, and not in a continuous circle, should be able to
select a calendar page or card, or combination of pages or
cards, making twenty-two.i We are told nothing as to the
degree of accessibility of the box during the sitting upstairs,
nothing as to the nature of the control (if any) to which the
medium was subjected, except that she sat between Dr.
Richardson and Dr. Crandon. We are not told who supplied
the calendar pages and the geometrical cards. Surely Dr.
Richardson, after all his experience as sitter and controller,
must reaHse that the facts as he sets them out are a ludi-
crously insufficient basis for a claim that pre-arrangement was
impossible.
Nor is ^3re-arrangement the only form of possible collusion.
Between the time that the upstairs sitting ended, and the
downstairs sitting began, there was an interval of twenty-five
minutes,^ and there was another interval of thirty-three minutes
between the beginning of the writing downstairs and the open-
ing of the box. Can Dr. Richardson account for the where-
abouts of all the thirteen persons during the whole of these
two intervals, so as to be positive that none of them had an
opportunity of passing on a telephone message to New York
or Niagara Falls in time to be used at the sittings in those
places, and that none of them had access to the box except
Miss Silsbee ?
Even this does not exhaust the possibilities of collusion.
Dr. Crandon telephoned to New York at 10.50. It is essential
^Thus, instead of 11x2, any of the following equations would Jiave
met the case: 10 + 12, 20+2, 11+11, and many others.
2 This breaking up of the group and adjournment to a room on
another floor is a frequent feature of the Boston sittings, and a most
regrettable one in experiments designed to exclude collusion, especially
when, as often happened, the sitters were niunerous.
110] Reviews. 405
for Dr. Richardson's case that an exact account of the conver-
sation between Dr. Crandon and his New York interlocutor
should be given and attested by witnesses present at each end
during the conversation, so as to be sure that no leading ques-
tions were put. But this is not done.
We do not wish to affirm that any one of these three
apparent opportunities for collusion was in fact utilised ; it is
for Dr. Richardson to show that none of them was and could
have been utilised, and this he has failed to do. As regards,
however, Dr. Hardwicke's share in the experiment, there are
two suspicious facts which may be capable of an innocent
interpretation, but cei"tainly require explanation of some kind.
First, a telegram purports to be sent at 9.45 giving the result
of a sitting which, according to Dr. Richardson, only began at
9.50. Secondly, the Niagara Falls script, which was tele-
graphed thus : ''HO stop R stop S E 2," was in fact pro-
duced thus (ii. 3556), on two separate pieces of paper ;
It was surely strange to communicate this script telegraphically
by starting with the lower part of the first sheet, proceeding
to the second, and concluding with the top part of the first ?
How could it have been known that horse was the word
required ? It may be urged that the object was to make
sense ; but how could the Niagara Falls group have known
what combination of the elements of this script would make
sense in combination with the Boston and New York scripts ?
It must be concluded that the conditions, as recorded, of this
case, which is entirely typical, are very far indeed from being
fraud-proof.
We now come to two experiments (ii. 356a and iii. 4156) in
which Walter was to select the subject for the cross-correspon-
dence in Margery's absence. The procedure in each case was
as follows. Before the sitting a certain Captain X marked
406 Reviews. [part
some blaiik cards for the purpose of identification and gave
them to his employees to paste designs on the other side.
When this had been done, the cards were put in a box which
was sealed and handed to Captain X, who, it is said, did not
know what designs his employees had pasted on.^ The box
was opened at the sitting and the lights turned out. Captain X
then picked one card " at random " out of the box and handed
it to another member of the circle, who kept it concealed until
the result of the Margery sitting held elsewhere the same even-
ing was known. When the results were received from New
York and Niagara Falls it was found that Margery, Valiantine,
and Hardwicke had between them produced a cross-correspon-
dence tallying with the card drawn by Captain X.
Now clearly everything turns in these two cases on the good
faith of the anonymous Captain X.^ As the cards had been
prepared in Captain X's office it would have been prudent to
have excluded him altogether from the sittings at which the
cards were to be drawn. If admitted to these sittings, he was
the last person in the world who ought to have been allowed
access to the box when opened, access to the box ivhen the
lights were out. Everything recorded by Dr. Richardson is
compatible with the cards handed by Captain X to his fellow-
sitters never having been in the box at all. The relevant card
could have been in Captain X's pocket when the sitting began.
The number of cards in the box was not independently checked
on either occasion, so that we need not even suppose substitu-
tion, although this would have been easy.
To turn from particular cases to the general nature of the
reports submitted by Dr. Richardson, it is obvious that in
experiments of this kind, designed to exclude collusion, we
ought to have before us copies of the original records of all
^ He had, however, made private marks on the cards, for purposes of
identification ; these marks shoukl clearly have been made by an inde-
pendent person.
^ It seems a piece of needless mystification to suppress Captain X's
name in these records. His real name is given in another series of
records of the Margery mediumship in which phenomena quite as re-
markable as these cross-correspondences also rest largely on his authority.
The responsibility for these two independent types of supernormal
phenomena is thus given the appearance of being divided between two
individuals, who are in fact only one.
110] Reviews. 407
the sittings at different places, signed by all the persons
present, with the exact time of the occurrences at each sitting.
Reports that do not fulfil these conditions, and Dr. Richardson's
reports fall far short of this, are worthless, except in so far as
they throw light on the standards of evidence which satisfy
Dr. Richardson and his collaborators. It must in particular
be emphasised that in these particular experiments time is an
essential point. Where telephonic communication admittedly
occurs between the groups at the several places the time of every
incident should be noted to the minute. For instance, in one
experiment (iv. 5026) Mr. Bird, at the Boston sitting, chose a
proverb, which was given the same evening at Niagara Falls
by Dr. Hardwicke, and the signed record of the Hardwicke
sitting is on this occasion reproduced (iv. 506, figure 22). This
record gives the date (" Mar. 24, 1928 "), but not the time in
hours and minutes. Much is made of the poiiat that eight
minutes before the Boston sitting closed a telegram had been
received from Hardwicke, but this telegram merely said (iv. 5036):
" Characters stop drawing stop am mailing." It is therefore no
evidence that Mr. Bird's proverb had already been given at
Niagara Falls. This omission to time the records exactly is
here particularly unfortunate, as the case would appear to be
an impressive one but for the evidential defect as to the vital
element of time.
We have finally to refer to the climax of these experiments,
the Chinese scripts of Margery It would obviously be im-
proper for one who is not a Chinese scholar to enter very
closely into these phenomena. It will suffice to quote the
words of Mr. R. F. Johnston, Government House, Weihaiwei,
an Associate of the S.P.R., who concludes, after a long and
exhaustive analysis ^ of these scripts, that " whoever the com-
municator on this occasion may have been, he was certainly
not the great Chinese sage [Confucius] whose name he adopted.
1 It is not uninteresting to note that these Chinese scripts began in
March 1928, a few months after the pubHcation of Mr. Hall's criticisms
of the S.P.R. cross-correspondences, in which he suggests certain tests
involving the co-operation of a Chinese. Is Mr. Hall also among the
prophets ? Or is this another cross-correspondence ?
^ Mr. Johnston's report is filed in the S.P.R. Rooms, and is available
for examination by Members and Associates.
408 Reviews. [part
It is also too obvious to need emphasis that the style of writ-
ing is not ancient, that the whole contents of the script consist
of ordinary modern Chinese written by a very poor scribe, and
that both pages of script contain not a single word or line
(barring a trifling exception . . . ) that is not a quotation.
The sentences written by Margery are all taken word for word
from a famous classical work which is probably more familiar
than any other Chinese book, not only to all educated Chinese,
but also to all Western students of Chinese literature." After
this it is perhaps superfluous to refer to the fact which
emerges incidentally in a later article, not part of the series
under review, that Margery has a Japanese servant, who
admittedly knows a certain amount of Chinese.^
This review does not pretend to exhaust the flaws that are
to be found in these experiments, nor the criticisms, from one
point of view or another, that might be levelled at them. But
even such points as have been brought forward show clearly
that this latest development of the Margery mediumship is still
far from reaching an adequate standard of evidence. We hope,
nevertheless, that these experiments will be continued, under
improved conditions. At the same time Dr. Richardson would,
we suggest, do well to realise that the non-American reader
would be more predisposed to accept the phenomena if it could
be shown that among those persons who have had an adequate
opportunity in America for forming a judgment, there is a
general consensus in favour of the credibility and the bona fides
of all mediums and sitters concerned.^
Theodore Bestebman.
* " The Chinese Scripts by Margery," Psychic Research (October 1928),
xxii. 5736.
8 Since this review was written these articles and others have been
off-printed as a volume entitled The Thumbprint and Cross-Correspondence
Experiments Made with the Medium Margery During 1927 and 1928. The
references to the articles apply to the book as follows : i. 255-269 =
pp. 99-11.3 of the book; ii. 3.54-361 =pp. 114-121; iii. 414-420=pp. 122-
128; iv. 496-514 =pp. 129-148. After the proofs of this review were
passed for j^ress Mr. Johnston's letter was pubUshed in the Quarterly
Transactions of the British College for Psychic Science, Ltd. (viii. 41-45),
together with a reply from Messrs. Mark W. Richardson, E. E. Dudley
and L. R. G. Crandon (viii. 45-54).
REPORT OF A FOUR MONTHS' TOUR OF
PSYCHICAL INVESTIGATION.*
By THEODORE BESTERMAN
CONTENTS
PAGE
Preface 411
I. Mme. Kahl-Toukholka : Paris - - - - 413
II. Mme. Brifeaut : Paris 433
III. RuDi Schneider : Munich 433
IV. Maria Silbert : Graz ------ 434
V. F. A. Rondon-Veri : Graz 449
VI. TiBOR MOLNAR AND LaJOS PaPP : BUDAPEST - 450
VII. Zakariasne Papp : Budapest . . . - 465
VIII. LujzA Ignath : Budapest ----- 466
IX. Anna Karlik : Berlin - - - - - - 472
X. Peter Johanson : Berlin 472
XI. LuDwiG Kahn : Berlin 473
XII. Pascal Forthuny : Paris 474
XIII. Rene Daumal : Paris 476
XIV. The Dog Zou : Paris ------ 479
* This paper was read in part at a Private Meeting of the Society on
February 20th, 1929.
2d
»
PREFACE
By the kindness of the member who is now well known in
the Society as " the anonymous donor," generously
seconded by the Council, I was enabled to spend the last
four months of 1928 travelhng in Belgium, Germany,
France, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Denmark.
My chief objects in making this journey were to get into
touch with the students of psychical research on the
Continent, to ascertain what work was being done, and
to effect an interchange of ideas between the S.P.R. and
the foreign investigators. Incidentally, however, I was
enabled to have sittings with a considerable number of
mediums, and it is with these sittings that the present
report is concerned. I do not, however, refer to all the
supposed mediums I saw, but only to those who appear
to have some real claim to the possession of supernormal
faculties or whose phenomena ^ are of special interest.
The accounts of these mediums follow in the chronological
order in which I saw them.
I made two rules to govern my conduct during these
sittings : (1) to obey scrupulously any conditions made by
the medium or his friends ; and (2) to inform the medium
or his friends of any adverse conclusions I might be
obUged to adopt. I beheve that I did not anywhere
break these two rules ; but this is not to say that the
medium's friends were always satisfied. I was reproached
on one occasion for stating my views too soon, on another
for not revealing my opinion until the conclusion of the
sittings. On the other hand, it is gratifying to be able to
^ I apologise for this misuse of the word " phenomena ;
" the only
excuse I can put forward is that the continuous iteration of " alleged
supernormal phenomena " would be as painful to the reader as to the
writer.
411
0
412 Preface [PAET
record that the mediums and their controlhng spirits (if
any) everywhere expressed themselves fully satisfied with
my behaviour.
It must of course be understood that any opinion I
express of the mediums discussed is intended to apply only
to the sittings at which I was present ; I do not pretend
to generalise.
At the beginning of my journey I wrote to Dr. Albert
Moll in connection with the technique for clairvoyance which
Count von Klinckowstroem told me Dr. Moll had devised.
In reply the latter very kindly sent me two test-tubes
marked I and II, one containing a message known to
Dr. Moll, and the other, at my request, a message un-
known to him. I had no idea of the contents of either
test-tube, and am still ignorant of the contents of No. I.
These tubes were so closed, with a cement mould, that
Dr. Moll considers it impossible for them to be opened
without his subsequent knowledge. It was my intention
to ask as many clairvoyants as possible to give me
their impressions of the contents of these tubes. Unfor-
tunately, their rather fear-inspiring appearance aroused the
suspicions of the mediums (as well as of the Customs
officials at various frontiers), and I was able to induce
only a single medium to try her faculties on the tubes.
The result of this single experiment, with Frau Ignath, is
detailed in Section VIII below.
I cannot conclude this Preface without expressing my
grateful thanks to the anonymous donor and to the Council
of the Society for having given me the opportunity of
making this, to me, most instructive journey ; and to
Miss Isabel Newton for valuable criticisms of this Report.
in] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 413
I. MME. Kj^HL-TOUKHOLKA :
^ PARIS
FIRST SITTING.
The name of this lady having been given to me in
Brussels by Count Perovsky, I wrote to her before going
to Paris, and eventually called on her by appointment on
the 5th of October, 1928, accompanied by a gentleman who
wishes to remain anonymous. We were then under the
impression that Mme. Kahl was a spiritualistic medium,
and a series of misunderstandings following on this and
on the language difficulties (my companion knowing no
French and the medium, who is Russian, only a little),
led to a brief and completely negative interview. But
having been very favourably impressed by M. and Mme.
Kahl-Toukholka, I determined to call again, and did so
on the 10th of October, 1928, without notice, and accompanied
by M. Rene WarcolHer, who had not previously seen or
heard of Mme. Kahl. Mme. Kahl very kindly agreed to
give us a sitting there and then.
SECOND SITTING.
At this sitting notes were taken sometimes by M.
Warcollier and sometimes by myself. During a brief
return to London the day after the sitting I compiled,
from my own notes and from memory, a report ^ for sub-
mission to Council. The following account is based on
this report. Subsequently M. Warcolher kindly sent me
a full accoimt ^ based on his notes ; his report corresponds
1 I believe the only published account of Mme. KahFs mediumship is
a note by her husband, S. Toukholka, " Experiences de clairvoyance
avec Mme. Olga Kahl," Revue Metapsychique (Paris, Novembre-
Decembre 1922), pp. 429-433, which he has discussed since my proofs
were passed (see his " Ce que la Medecine doit attendre de I'etude
experimentale des proprietes psychiques paranormales de I'homme,"
Revue Metapsychique (Paris, Mars-Avril, 1929), pp. 124-136). Dr. Osty
has carried out a series of experiments with Mme. Kahl.
^ These reports and all other similar papers later referred to are preserved
and filed in the Rooms of the S.P.R.
414 Theodore Besterman [part
very closely to mine, and I have noted the only divergence
of any importance.'-
The sitting opened with a request from Mme. Kahl to
me to think of a geometrical figure ; I thought of an
equilateral triangle, and in a few seconds a red ovaloid
figure, giving the effect of a subcutaneous suffusion of the
blood, appeared on her inner forearm. [M. WarcolHer made
a sketch of this figure, which appears to be closer to a
triangle than my description of it as " ovaloid." This is
M. Warcolher's sketch :
Fig. 1.
The medium asked me to repeat the experiment, this
time telhng her what figure I thought of, and she would
again try to make it appear on her arm. I informed her
that I had thought of a square, and in a few seconds there
appeared on her arm, clearly defined, and, as usual, in
red, three sides of a square. Mme. Kahl heightened the
red colour of these outhnes by rubbing them with her hand
;
but there was no contact before the appearance of the
designs.
I was then asked to think of a common French Christian
name, and to tell it to M. WarcolHer. While Mme. Kahl
was out of the room (which measures about 15 ft. by
20 ft.), and M. Kahl on the other side of it, I whispered
" Henri." When Mme. Kahl returned to the room she
walked straight up to us and said " Henri."
Mme. Kahl asked me to write down a name, to show
the slip to M. WarcolHer, and then to fold it. This was
done while Mme. Kahl left the room and with M. Kahl
some distance from us. I then wrote the name of " Rene
^ In view of the strilting nature of Mme. Kahl's mediumship I have
thought it right to report, however briefly, the unsuccessful parts of
these sittings as well as the successful ones.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 415
Maublanc," a gentleman with whom I had recently had some
correspondence (see section XIII below). After showing it
to M. WarcoUier I folded six times the slip of paper
bearing the name and kept it in my hand. Mme. Kahl
then returned and, closing her eyes, scribbled very rapidly
on a piece of paper. At the second attempt she scrawled
what is clearly " Maubl ..." or " Naubl ..." The
medium then touched the folded paper, which remained
in my hand, and requested me to hold her wrist. I did
so, and on her forearm appeared very clearly the capital
letters REN, each about three-quarters of an inch in
height, with a vague final letter showing what might have
been the vertical and the lowest horizontal strokes of a
capital E.
Mme. Kahl then produced a set of cards of the general
size and appearance of playing cards ; these cards,
however, bear on the white side a large central spot of
ink, usually black, though one or two have a red spot,
beneath it what appear to be Oriental signs, a letter of
the alphabet in one corner (so that the whole pack forms
the complete alphabet), and a question in Russian, French
or English. Mme. Kahl asked M. Warcolher to choose one
of the questions, to concentrate on the black spot on the
card bearing this question, to replace the card in the pack,
and then to shuffle the latter. Then, holding the pack in
her hand, Mme. Kahl answered the question. This pro-
cedure was followed in nearly all subsequent experiments
with these cards. M. Warcolher had chosen the card
bearing the question " Guerira-t-il (ou elle) ?
" [Will he
(or she) recover ?] Mme. Kahl did not at first succeed in
determining what question had been chosen, and asked
M. Warcolher to write it down, which he did in the
feminine form, thinking of his wife. The medium then
placed the pack against her forehead, and declared that
the question was about a person who was ill, that this
person was a woman, in bed, but not continuously, and
that she had always been ill. This is all correct ;
Mme.
Kahl added some details as to the nature of the illness,
but these, though probably accurate, cannot be positively
declared to be so.
416 Theodore Besterman [part
Mme. Kahl then asked M. Warcollier to pick out the
card bearing the initial of the Christian name of his wife.
M. WarcolUer took the card marked G and was requested
to concentrate on it by itself. Mme. Kahl wrote C, then
said K, and finally wrote G. She did not succeed in getting
the name, which is Germaine. The medium then suggested
that she might be more successful if I also knew the name.
While Mme. Kahl left the room, M. Kahl remaining, M.
WarcolHer whispered the name to nie, and I wrote it on
a piece of paper which remained in my hand. The
medium returned and, looking into my eyes, said re-
peatedly :
" Genriette, Genriette," and protested that there
is no such name. The name of my wife is Henrietta,
which, in French, is Henriette, the initial H not being pro-
nounced. Genriette is therefore G plus the name of my
wife. I had not been consciously thinking of her name.
Mme. Kahl next asked me to think of a woman ; I
thought of my wife. She filled a small glass of water,
dropped a gold ring into it, and looked into the glass.
She declared that she saw in it a fair woman with short
hair, which is true of my wife. Then Mme. Kahl tried
to see Mme. Warcollier, and said that she saw a dark
woman wearing her hair long, which is also accurate.
The medium asked me to think of a short name ;
I
thought of Neil, as probably unknown to her. Mme. Kahl
at once made several scrawls, each beginning with a
very emphatic N, and one continuing with an e ; but she
was unable to get any more. The medium explained that
she was only able to perceive names which were known
to her. The experiment was repeated, the name I
thought of being Leon. Mme. Kahl wrote L and then
Lucien.
Mme. Kahl asked M. WarcolUer to draw, in pencil, a
simple figure. M. Warcollier made five dots, thus :
The medium found the piece of paper too large and the
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 417
dots were remade on a scrap of paper about an inch
square ; I placed the first piece of paper in my pocket.
The object of this change, Mme. Kahl explained, was to
enable her to hold the piece of paper, when folded, between
her finger and thumb without there being any suspicion
that she was reading it. M. Warcolher was then asked to
place his hand, containing the shp, under a rug, to take
her hand under the rug, and to place her finger on the
design. This proved a total failure.
Mme. Kahl asked me to repeat the test ;
I drew a
rectangular figure, and, after completing it, produced two
of the sides so as to form a cross, thus :
The piece of paper on which tlais design was made, again
about an inch square, was folded and held by me on her
forehead. At once the medium said that she saw a
rectangular figure with a cross at one corner, and drew
the following figure :
She made it clear, both verbally and in her manner of
drawing the figure, that the cross was intentional, and not
a mere accident.
At this point we were about to leave, when Mme. Kahl
exclaimed that she could now give us an example of the
manner in which her faculty sometimes very strongly
" got hold of her." She declared positively that there was
Fig. 2.
Fig. 3.
418 Theodore Besterman [part
now in the waiting-room a man who had come to consult
her in order to ascertain whether he was to expect a
letter, whether he was to marry, and to ask a question
about a commercial matter. We at once went into the
waiting room and requested the gentleman whom we
found there to write down the questions he had come to
ask. He willingly assented, and wrote the following :
trouverais-je un emploi ?
recevrais-je une lettre ?
dois-je faire le commerce ?
Me marierais-je ?
^
[Signed]
This gentleman then went into the other room, M. War-
collier and I remaining in conversation with M. Kahl. In
a moment or two the gentleman returned and said that
Mme. Kahl had asked him to tell us his Christian name.
This, he said, was Fernand. Hard on his heels came Mme.
Kahl, who exclaimed, " Your name is Fernand." This
concluded the sitting.
In general, sittings at which occur whispering between
the sitters, the writing down of the required information,
and systems such as that of Mme. Kahl's cards, cannot
be taken very seriously. I think, however, that an
analysis of the present sitting will show it to contain
elements of some interest. I cannot, of course, do more than
assert that although I am fully conscious of the possibilities
of hypersesthesia, I am nevertheless of the opinion that on
the two occasions on which whispering took place, it was
done in such a way as to make it impossible for
M. and Mme. Kahl to hear it, the latter, moreover, having
on each occasion been out of the room. Then, although I
beheve that no signalhng occurred between M. and Mme.
Kahl after the latter's return, I should not care to
guarantee this. M. Kahl's continuous presence was un-
doubtedly regrettable.
The writing of the slips was always done on a small
pad provided by Mme. Kahl, but not, as a rule, until the
1 [Shall I find a job ? Shall I receive a letter ? Ought I to go
into business ? Shall I marry ?]
Ill] Four Months'' Tour of Psychical Investigation 419
sheet used had been torn off the pad. A hard surface was
generally used as a support of the paper written on. When
a pencil was intentionally borrowed from Mme. Kahl, it
was found that she provided one with a soft lead (Faber
24) quite unsuitable for the form of fraud which consists
of reading the blind marks transmitted by a sharp pencil
to the sheet below the one written on. There were no
mirrors in the room available for any form of reading by
reflection.
Most objectionable of all is the system of cards. Neither
M. Warcollier nor I was able to detect any trickery ; but
even a third-rate illusionist can perform such remarkable
feats with cards that I, at any rate, am not inchned to
put too much trust in my own senses in this respect, and
others, no doubt, will put even less. Indeed, if Mme.
Kahl's phenomena of this type stood alone, I should
certainly not go out of my way to draw attention to
them. And it must be added that Mme. Kahl has a
number of mannerisms which almost invite suspicion ; for
instance, she often retires for a moment or two into an
inner room in order to " concentrate." I can say this the
more frankly as it is my opinion, in face of all these
objections, that the phenomena seen by me at this sitting
and at the two following ones (with a single possible
exception, to be noted below) were genuinely supernormal.
By this I do not intend to suggest that Mme. Kahl
invariably acts with scientific scrupulousness ; a clairvoyante
who exploits her faculties commercially is bound to take
the line of least resistance, and Mme. Kahl, no doubt,
" helps " herself if her sitters give her the opportunity by
carelessness or indiscretion.
Although I did not come to a favourable conclusion
until the fourth sitting, even the present one had greatly
impressed me ; for if we take into account only those
incidents wliich were necessarily genuine—by which I mean
those in which the idea successfully transmitted had
no physical existence, having been present only in the
mind of M. WarcoUier or of myself—the remaining results
are still striking. We have, first, the impressive incident
where Mme. Kahl, after having obtained the initial G of
420 Theodore Besterman [part
the name of Mine. Warcollier, turned to me and completed
the initial with the French form of the name of my own
wife, of which I had not consciously been thinking. The
odds against guessing the name Henrietta or Henriette
must be well over 100 to 1 ; let us say 50 to 1. Next
there is the correct description of my wife as being fair,
with short hair, and of Mme. Warcollier as being dark
and wearing her hair long. The odds against each of these
successes are probably in the neighbourhood of 3 to 1 ; let
us be conservative and say 5 to 1 for both together.
Next is the correct N of Neil, to say nothing of the e.
The odds against this are about 20 to 1. Next we have
the correct L of Leon, which we will also value at 20 to 1.
This method of assessing odds, where it is impossible to
give a definite value to chance successes, is admittedly
unsatisfactory. But at any rate it enables us to reaUse
more clearly the general value of such incidents as those
described. Bearing this in mind, it is not uninteresting to
see that, ignoring nearly all the most striking phenomena,
we get the minimum odds of 100,000 to 1 against the
successes just mentioned being due purely to chance.
The success obtained was undoubtedly impressive enough
to justify further experiments, and to these M. and Mme.
Kahl readily assented. Consequently I returned to Paris in
December with the authorisation of Council to undertake
a lengthy series of sittings with Mme. Kahl. I proposed
to her a few simple conditions, such as that the sittings
should take place on neutral ground and in the absence
of M. Kahl. Unfortunately, from the scientific point of
view, Mme. Kahl has a large clientele as a professional
clairvoyante, so that her time is very fully and profitably
occupied. Having thus no financial interest in the scientific
estabhshment of her sujjposed supernormal faculties, and
being herself quite indifl^erent to the scientific point of
view, it is only with the utmost difficulty that she can
be induced to submit to any kind of test condition. In
the present case Mme. Kahl, after much discussion, was
induced to agree to the absence of her husband, but
refused to give the sittings elsewhere than in her own
rooms. Full notes were taken at each sitting by M.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 421
WarcolKer and carefully verified immediately after its
conclusion.
THIRD SITTING.
The tliird sitting took place on the 21st of December,
1928, in Mme. Kahl's rooms, in the presence of M.
Warcollier and of myseK only.
Mme. Kahl asked me to think of a close relative and to
state the sex of the person decided upon. This was a
cousin named Ruth. I had then to pick out from the
pack the card hearing the appropriate initial. Mme. Kahl
said B, then R, and finally wrote Ro. She then attempted
to describe Ruth, but with Uttle success. On being told
the name thought of, the medium said that it was un-
known to her, and that she was able to succeed only with
names famihar to her.
I was then requested to choose one of the cards bearing
a question. I selected the question :
" Quel emploi dois-je
choisir ?
" [What occupation shall I choose ?]. This
experiment was dropped.
M. Warcolher, in the same way, chose the question :
" Toucherais-je de I'argent ? [Shall I receive some money ?]
Mme. Kahl correctly perceived the question, but her
answer was vague and did not correspond to what M.
Warcolher had in mind. A further question :
" Faut-il
vendre ?
" [Should I sell ? ], failed.
Then, although I have no children, I chose the question :
" Mes enfants seront-ils heureux ?
" [Will my children be
happy ?]. Mme. Kahl laughed and said that I would yet
have a child, a boy.
M. Warcolher was asked to think of the name of a
person, and to say whether it was a man or a woman.
He did so, and Mme. Kahl said that the name began with
S ; on being told that this was correct, she added that
it was Suzanne. This was also correct ; but this latter
success has only a very restricted value, for Suzanne is one
of the commonest of the few French feminine Christian
names beginning with S.
M. Warcolher then chose the question :
" Mes affaires
iront-elles mieux ?
" [Will my business improve ?]. Mme.
422 Theodore Besterman [part
Kahl correctly said that the question was concerned with
business.
Mme. Kahl asked me to think of a person, to pick out
the card bearing the initial letter of this person's name,
and she would describe him. This experiment failed.
M. Warcolher wrote on a piece of paper :
" Reussirais-je
une experience telepathic [sic] avec Mr. Besterman Samedi?"
[Shall I succeed in a telepathic experiment with Mr.
Besterman on Saturday ?]. This experiment failed.
Mme. Kahl again tried to discover the name of a person
whose initial card I took from the pack, and again failed.
The medium now took a glass of water and said that
she would try to see in it the woman I love. I thought
of my wife, but Mme. Kahl failed to see anything, al-
though, having correctly, if only in a very fragmentary
manner, described my wife on a previous occasion, it
would have been easy for her to repeat the description
she had given before.
M. WarcoUier mentally put a question, but Mme. Kahl
failed to determine its nature.
Notwithstanding this series of failures, Mme. Kahl
consented to go on, and agreed to attempt a repetition of
the previously observed dermographic (skin-writing) pheno-
mena. I drew a square surmounted by a triangle. On
Mme. Kahl's arm there appeared only three separate
strokes, which, however, if joined, would have correctly
represented the triangle of my drawing.
M. Warcolher now drew a Z, but had in his mind the
idea of a cross ; on Mme. Kahl's arm appeared the
following figure :
I then drew this figure :
which, except for a shght elongation, was exactly repro-
duced on Mme. Kahl's arm.
M. Warcolher then thought of his mother, concentrating
on her name, Emihe. Mme. Kahl said A, then F, and
Fig. 4.
Ill] Fotir Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 423
finally wrote E. On being told that this was correct,
she added that the name was Emilie. But in French there
are very few feminine Christian names beginning with E.
Mme. Kahl now asked me to choose one of the EngUsh
questions in the pack, and I selected one which simply
bore :
" Concerning politics." The medium asked whether
the question was of personal or of general apphcation, and
on being given this information at once said that I had
chosen a question connected with politics. I took an
opportunity, later, to examine the pack and found that
34 cards bore Enghsh questions, and that of these the one
chosen by me was the only one of an impersonal nature.
Here, then, we have a case in which it is possible that
Mme. Kahl, after a series of failures, exercised a httle
more or less innocent self-help. But it should be observed
that if this ivas deception Mme. Kalil's use of so elementary
a trick seems to indicate that she does not use elaborate
fraud. For if Mme. Kahl has some means of identifying
whatever card is taken from the pack or of forcing
specific cards on the sitter, as would be necessary if the
above-described results were fraudulently obtained, why
should she descend to so crude a trick for this particular
card ?
I now drew the following figure on a small piece of
paper :
This I folded and kept in my hand. Mme. Kahl tried to
make the design appear on her arm. She was called to
the telephone, and after her return this figure gradually
appeared on her arm :
Fig. 5.
Fig. 6.
The telephone is in a passage, just outside the door of the
424 Theodore Besterman [part
room in which we sat ; Mme. Kahl remained in my sight
the whole time she was out of the room. This concluded
the sitting.
It will be seen that this sitting was not nearly so
successful as the previous one. Indeed, on our previous
system of reckoning, that is, excluding all successes in
which the cards, writing or whispering played a part, we
have left only three cases, of small importance, in which
fraud was impossible. First, we have Mme. Kahl's correct
perception that I have no children. The value of this is,
of course, very slight. Next is the case where Mme. Kahl
correctly gave the initial and then the complete name of
Suzanne, the total value of which, with the previous
incident, is perhaps 40 to 1. Finally we have the correct
initial and name of Emihe, but as the initial was obtained
only at the third attempt, the total value of this success
ought not to be put higher than, say, 30 to 1. The total
thus obtained of 1,200 to 1, though interesting enough in
itself, compares very unfavourably with the 100,000 to 1 of
the previous sitting. Mme. Kahl ascribed this lower degree
of success to the absence of her husband, who usually sMghtly
hypnotises her and employs suggestion to bring her super-
normal faculties into play. And it was also obvious that
the consciousness of being under careful scrutiny produced
in Mme. Kahl an abnormal condition of nervousness and
depression, probably unfavourable to the free play of her
supernormal faculties. M. Warcolher and I exerted our-
selves to gain Mme. Kahl's confidence, and, after a good
deal of pressure, she consented to continue the series
under the same conditions.
FOURTH SITTING.
The fourth sitting was held on the 23rd of December,
again in Mme. Kahl's rooms, and with only M. Warcollier
and myself present.
Mme. Kahl asked me to pick from the pack the card
bearing the initial of a person I was thinking of. I did
so, thinking of Professor Pierre Janet, whom I had recently
seen and whose personality was vividly present in my
mind. After making a number of incorrect or non-
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 425
evidential statements aboiit the appearance of M. Janet,
Mme. Kalil said, in quick succession, P, Pierre. I may,
however, have given some tmconscious indication, when
Mme. Kahl said P, that tliis was correct ; and as there
are only two or three French male Christian names in
general use beginning svith. P, the latter part of this
success must not be over-valued. The medium then
said that she would attempt to perceive the surname, and
asked me to pick out the appropriate initial from the pack.
On looking through the cards I found, however, that there
was no J amongst them, and I accordingly concentrated
on and replaced the I. It is interesting, therefore, on the
hyjDothesis of fraud, that ]\Ime. Kahl did not try any
names beginning with I. On the contrary, she wote, at
the first attempt, an emphatic J, followed by an illegible
scrawl ; the second attempt produced Jan ; Mme. Kahl
then said Janot ; I stiU expressed dissatisfaction, and was
asked by Mme. Kahl to write the name ; I did so, but
Mme. Kahl was unable to improve on Janot. Mme. Kahl
afterwards declared that the name Janet was unknown to
her.
xMme. Kahl, very pleased with this success, tried to
repeat it, and in order to make sure that I should think
of a name known to her, asked me to think of the name
of a poet. In order to see whether Mme. Kahi's conscious
ratiocination would affect her supernormal faculties, I
selected a poet with the same Christian name, Pierre
Ronsard. The medium correctly said P, hut then added
Paul. I noticed, however, that Mme. Kahi's manner in
saying this was a Mttle seK-conscious, and, on being-
questioned, she admitted that, having got the impression
of P, she had added Paul because I had previously given
Pierre. I now wrote the full name and showed it to M.
Warcollier wMle Mme. Kahl was out of the room. When
the latter returned she wrote automatically, in Russian
script, Rou, and said Rouson, but was unable to obtain
more. She afterwards said that she had never heard of
Ronsard. M. WarcoUier tells me that this would be quite
hkely, even in a Frenchwoman.
This experiment was once more repeated, and, Mme.
2e
426 Theodore Besterman [part
Kahl having repeatedly declared that the more familiar a
name is to her the more easily she can perceive it when
it is thought of, I determined to think of a Russian
writer, and chose Nicholas Gogol. Mme. Kahl, with almost
alarming promptitude, and very happily, exclaimed : "It
is a Russian name ! Nicholas !
" I now told Mme. Kahl
that she was right and that it was a Russian writer I had
thought of. No sooner had I said this than M. Warcollier
wrote in his notes, and passed to me, the name Gogol
;
and every person to whom I have put this problem since
has at once suggested Gogol as the missing part of the
name. Nevertheless, Mme. Kahl, a Russian, to whom,
as she afterwards agreed, the name Nicholas Gogol is
extremely famihar, wholly failed in her attempts to supply
the missing name. She repeatedly scrawled words or names
beginning with C, but was unable to get anything nearer.
This incident appears to me a strong argument in favour
of Mme. Kahl's honesty.
I drew a figure, which, it was hoped, would appear on
Mme. Kahl's arm ; the experiment failed.
I now drew this figure :
Fig. 7.
Mme. Kahl automatically drew on a piece of paper :
Fig. 8.
Though these two figures are undoubtedly of the same
general type, the hkeness is not close enough, in my
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 427
opinion, to justify the experiment being put down as a
success.
Mme. Kahl requested me to write a name, for the
purpose of trjdng to make it appear on her arm. I
thought of Frangois, but, deciding that this would be too
difficult, wrote Jean. The experiment failed so far as the
dermographic intention was concerned, but Mme. Kahl
repeatedly said that she had the impression of F, and
suggested Fernand. Though I several times insisted that
the name I had written did not begin with F, Mme.
Kahl persisted in declaring that she was strongly impressed
with this letter. This seems an interesting case of thought-
transference ; it might have been more interesting still if
I had encouraged Mme. Kahl to proceed with the F,
instead of declaring it to be wrong.
M. Warcolher now attempted a dermographic experiment
and drew what he thought of as the infinity sign :
M. Warcolher drew this on a small scrap of paper, and,
without showing it to anyone, folded it and kept it in his
hand. There now appeared on Mme. Kahl's arm, first, a
square, and then this figure, about 5 inches by 2 inches
in size :
Before being told whether this was correct or not Mme.
Kahl was asked to write down what she took this figure
to be, and she drew a large 8. This figure appeared on
the inner side of Mme. Kahl's left arm, and for this reason
was particularly interesting ; for before its appearance, it
FIQ. 9.
FIO. 10.
Size reduced.
428 Theodore Besterman [part
having been, in my opinion, as impossible for Mme. Kahl
as it had been for me to see M. Warcolher's drawing, I
was asked by her on which arm I should prefer the figure
to appear. I first took hold of Mme. Kahl's wrists and
then chose the left arm, and here, without any contact
whatever, the figure duly appeared, the square having
previously (but while I was holding Mme. Kahl's wrists)
appeared on the right arm, and quickly disappeared. This
8 persisted rather longer than these appearances had done
previously, and I took advantage of the opportunity to
examine it as closely as was possible in the circum-
stances. The figure, so far as I could judge with the
naked eye, gave the impression of being formed by a
suifusion or extravasation of blood below the sldn. It was
not in any way affected by the application of moisture.
After the 8 had disappeared, each of us made a drawing
on one piece of paper : Mme. Kahl of an X, M. Warcolher
of two interlaced circles, and I of two interlaced triangles.
In the same place where the 8 had recently disappeared
there was now gradually to be seen, for a few moments,
and again without any kind of contact, a single triangle.
Mme. Kahl now took her glass of water and, putting two
rings into it, tried to see my wife. She said that she
would not attempt to get her name, as, although she
could not remember it, she did remember having given it
on a previous occasion. This experiment failed. I was
requested to write the maiden name of my wife, Birley,
which I did ; but Mme. Kahl was unable to " get " it.
Mme. Kahl said that the experiment of the 8 had tired
her, but she would go on for a little while. I picked from
the pack the question: "Me marierais-je ?
" [Will I
marry ?]. Mme. Kahl promptly said that my question was
not serious, that I was already married, but only at a
registrar's [mairie]. This is correct.
Mme. Kahl asked me to write two questions on a
piece of paper, and left the room. I then wrote :
" Les
parents de ma femme sont-ils vivants ?
" [Are the parents
of my wife hving ?], and " Que ferais-je dans six mois ?
"
[What shall I be doing in six months ?]. I folded the
paper into four. Mme. Kahl returned, picked up the
Ill] Fou7' Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 429
paper at its open end with a pair of pincers, and burnt
it. She then said that one of the questions concerned a
child, and declared herself too tired to go on. She was
wilHng, however, to try one more experiment if she could
have the assistance of her husband. To this I agreed.
Mme. Kahl now left the room, to telephone to her
husband, whom we had left in the lounge of the hotel,
five floors below ; in her absence M. WarcolUer wrote with
his own pencil, and showed to me, the question :
" L'af-
faire du pontife reussira-t-elle ?
" [Will the business of the
pontiff succeed ?]. M. Warcolher did not explain the
question, which conveyed no meaning to me. Mme. Kahl
now returned and, in the same way as before, burned the
paper. It seems to have been impossible for Mme. Kahl to
have obtained knowledge of the contents of the paper
written by M. WarcolUer ; while it was being written, and,
indeed, during the whole time that she was out of the
room, Mme. Kahl was continuously in my sight telephoning
in the passage just outside the open door of the room ;
and experiments made since, one of them with Miss
Newton, have failed to reveal any way in which the piece
of paper might have been read while it was being picked
up, or during the process of being burnt. M. Kahl did not
enter the flat until after the paper was burnt.
While awaiting the arrival of M. Kahl, the medium tried
to discover whether I had any sisters, but failed to get
any impressions. On M. Kahl's entry he put Mme. Kahl
into a very light liypnoidal condition and then suggested
to her that she should now see clearly, that she should
see what had been written, that she should tell us what
she saw, and the like. Mme. Kahl now said that it was
a business question, but that she could not understand
it ; it seemed to be " pour cure, pour grand cure, pretre
important " [for cure, for big cure, important priest]. Then,
again exclaiming impatiently that she could not understand
her impressions, Mme. Kahl returned to her normal state
of consciousness. M. Warcollier explained that the ques-
tion referred to a business transaction in which he was
engaged with a gentleman whose address is at Pontifex
House, London. M. Warcolher subsequently gave me the
430 Theodore Besterman [part
name and full particulars of this gentleman. This was
therefore a most interesting success, Mme. Kahl having
correctly perceived, not the idea which M. WarcoUier wanted
to convey but the literal meaning of what he had written,
though this meaning, of course, was also present in his
mind.
Mme. Kahl now proposed to make the attempt of
obtaining this gentleman's Christian name, and requested
M. Warcollier to write it on a small piece of paper. This
he did, showing it to nobody, and, folding it in four,
handed it to Mme. Kahl below an opaque cloth. Mme.
Kahl then dictated, one after the other, the letters M, A,
and U, being told after each one that it was correct (the
name being Maurice). The paper, all this time under the
cloth, was now returned to M. Warcollier, and Mme Kahl
wrote automatically what may be read as Morus or Morris,
thus :
Fig. 11.
We get here, as in the Genriette incident, an interesting
interplay of consciousness and subconsciousness In the
Genriette case, Mme. Kahl, consciously knowing G to be
correct, and then presumably receiving the impression of
Henriette, consciously or unconsciously added the two
together. In the present instance, although Mme Kahl
consciously knew Mau to be right (since she had been told
so), yet, the automatic writing, being a direct expression
of the sxibconsciousness, which had no doubt been influ-
enced by the knowledge that the person concerned was an
Englishman, transmuted the Maurice into what a foreigner
might regard as an English or pseudo-English form of this
name. This concluded the sitting.
The many interesting aspects of this sitting are even
more difficult than the previous cases to reduce to a
statistical basis. But even from this point of view the
successes obtained by Mme. Kahl will be seen to be very
Ill] Foiir Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 43
1
remarkable. Taking into account once more only those
cases where the ideas transmitted had no physical
existence, we have several striking incidents. First comes
the Janot-Janet case ; this comprises the divination of
Pierre (we cannot count the P itself), the emphatic and
accurate writing of J, although the card with I had been
chosen, and the actual writing of Janot for Janet. We
have seen that, given the P, a correct guess of Pierre
should not be given a value of more than 2 to 1. The next
incident, even if account be taken of the fact that Mme.
Kahl probably knew that there was no J in the pack,^
ought probably to be given a similar value : let us say
3 to 1 for these two minor successes together. But the
Janot for Janet is much more difficult to assess. We have
to assume, against Mme. KahFs own statement, that the
name of M. Janet is known to her, and we have also to
assume, following the method of our present calculations,
that she had some means of knowing that I had chosen
the I card. Given this knowledge on Mme. Kahl's part,
and also her knowledge that I was sitting with her on
behalf of the S.P.R., and assuming further that she is
familiar with the fact that M. Janet had been closely
connected with the Society in earlier days (being still,
indeed, a Corresponding Member of it), what are the
chances against Mme. Kahl guessing the name of Pierre
Janot ? It must be remembered that the information
possessed by Mme. Kahl concerning the actual name was
the Christian name Pierre, and the information assumed to
be possessed by her is the initial I of the name and
the knowledge that there is no J in the pack. It should
also be borne in mind that this was the only occasion on
which either M. Warcollier or I set Mme. Kahl a name in
any way connected with psychical research, and also the
only occasion on which she put forward such a name.
Clearly, statistics have very little foothold here, but I think
it will be granted that an estimate of 25 to 1 against this
^ It is just possible that Mme. Kahl may have noticed my failure to
find the J ; but this is unhkely, for I had made a practice of always
going through the pack two or three times before picking the card
I wanted.
432 Theodore Besterman [part
success being due to chance errs on the side of under-
statement.
The correct P of Pierre Ronsard may, as before, be
assessed at 20 to 1. In the case of the divination of
Nicholas, we are again in more difficult regions. Here the
only indication possessed by Mme. Kahl was that I was
thinldng of a Christian name. The chances against the
correct selection of Nicholas from the whole range of
Christian names, male and female, and, at any rate,
French and Enghsli, would be substantially undervalued
at 200 to 1. Then we will estimtite, once more, at 20 to
1 the correct F of Frangois. And, finally, we have the
interesting statement that I was married only at a mairie.
Failing reliable information as to the number of people
who go through the civil ceremony only, the value of this
success can only be guessed at. A humble 2 to 1 would
certainly be no exaggeration. We thus obtain a total
minimum probability of 1,200,000 to 1 against the successes
obtained at this sitting being due to chance, again ex-
cluding some of the most striking results.^
On the conclusion of this sitting Mme. Kahl was again
asked whether she would not submit to stricter conditions,
but she did not care to do so, and herseK suggested
that it seemed useless to continue the sittings. This was
true enough, for I had now seen all the phenomena
Mme. Kahl readily produces, and, faihng better conditions,
with opportunities for control and for initiating new
tests and experiments, further sittings would have been
merely repetitions of those already described. In these
circumstances the series was discontinued for the time
being.
It is hoped that the 8.P.R. will further investigate this
most interesting medium, and I therefore abstain, for the
present, from any closer discussion of the case ; but I
cannot conclude without thanking M. and Mme. Kahl for
having so amiably borne with what, I fear, must some-
times have seemed to them my discourteous persistence.
I am also indebted to M. Warcollier for attending the
^ I make no attemjjt to assess the statistical value of the series as a
whole.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 433
sittings and for taking full and accurate notes, and to
Mme. Warcollier for her kind hospitality.
II. MME. BRIFFAUT : PARIS.
At the time of my first sittings with Mme. Kahl I asked
to be given the names of the best clairvoyants in Paris.
First on the fist suppHed to me by a well-known student
of psychical research appeared the name of Mme. Briffaut,
and remembering the very eulogistic terms in which
Professor Richet speaks of this lady/ I called on her
by appointment in company with the same gentleman
with whom I first sat with Mme. Kahl. It was this
gentleman who was the sitter, I merely acting as
interpreter.
Mme. Brifi^aut does not go into trance, and explains that
she sees apparitions of dead persons round the sitter. On
this occasion the medium described several such figures,
none of which was recognised by the sitter. Mme. Brilfaut
also mentioned a considerable number of names, only a
few of the most common of which, such as Mary and John,
had any significance for the sitter. The medium asked
many questions, and followed up such as were answered,
but always quite unsuccessfully. The sitting was then
given up.
III. RUDI SCHNEIDER: MUNICH.
During my stay in Munich, and after the departure of
the S.P.R. Committee which had had sittings with Willi
and Rudi Schneider, Baron von Schrenck-Notzing very
kindly invited me to participate in two further sittings
with the latter. These sittings were completely negative,
so that httle useful purpose would be served by describing
them. Baron von Schrenck-Notzing also allowed me to
attend what might be called an informal preparatory
^ Charles Richet, Notre sixieme sens (Paris [1927]), pp. 137-141 ; cp.
Carita Borderieux, " Madame Briffaut," Psychica (Paris 1928), viii. 8-10.
434 Theodore Besterman [part
sitting with Rudi at which only the Baron and I were
present. Rudi quickly passed into his trance-hke condition
and the Baron then had a most friendly conversation
with Rudi's control, Olga, during which the latter ex-
pressed herself satisfied with the conditions of the
sittings and with myself as a sitter, and promised to
produce phenomena that evening. This promise was
unfortimately not fulfilled.
The accompanying diagram (Fig. 12) illustrates the new
system of control, designed by the late Karl Krall, recently
installed by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing in his laboratory
and already described by Dr. WooUey.^ Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing kindly allowed me to examine the fittings,
and I was able to trace the wires for their whole length
to and from the accumulators. The whole system is
unquestionably within the room, distinct from any other
electrical installation, and it does not seem possible for
it to be interfered with from outside.
I should hke to thank Baron von Schrenck-Notzing very
warmly for giving me these various facihties and for his
i^indness and hospitality to me during my stay in Munich.^
IV. MARIA SILBERT : GRAZ.
I arrived in Graz from Munich on the evening of Thurs-
day, the 1st of November 1928, and, notwithstanding the
late hour, immediately called on Professor Walter. I had
previously hoped to visit Graz in the middle of October,
with Studienrat Dr. Lambert, of Stuttgart, and Dr.
Tischner, of Munich. But owing to Frau Silbert's illness
this visit had to be cancelled. Professor Walter wrote to me
at this time that he could not undertake to arrange formal
^ See the smnmary of Dr. Woolley's description in Journ. S.P.R.
(January 1929), xxv. 3.
^ Baron von Schrenck's lamented death, which has occurred since this
report was set up, must increase my sense of indebtedness to him for
opportunities of investigation he so kindly gave me, and I can only
regret that it is now impossible for him to receive these expressions of
thanks.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 435
sittings for me, but that if I cared to come on the ofi-chance,
the journey would probably not be wasted, as a call on Frau
Silbert was tantamount to a sitting. I was unwilling,
however, to pay a visit with such slender possibilities, and
accordingly asked Dr. Tischner, who had expressed a desire
to accompany me on my postponed visit, to write himself
and to try and arrange definite sittings. I had made all
arrangements to leave Munich on the 31st of October, and,
no answer having been received by then,^ I determined to
take the risk of proceeding to Graz alone and unheralded.
It was in these circumstances that I called on Pro-
fessor Walter.
He received me in the friendliest possible way, and
explained the position to me. As I had suspected, the
difficulty in arranging sittings was due only in part to the
medium's state of health. The chief cause was Dr. W. F.
Prince's report of his sittings in Europe, in which he
came to an adverse conclusion regarding Frau Silbert's
mediumship.2 Professor Walter promised, notwithstanding
Frau Silbert's alleged unwilhngness to give further sittings
to Enghsh-speaking investigators, to do what he could to
obtain some for me ;
and, in fact, until the end of iny visit,
he made all possible efforts on my behalf.
On the morning of the 2nd of November 1928 Professor
Walter and I called on Frau Silbert ; she was out, but on
pajdng another visit later in the morning we were able
to have a talk with her. Professor Walter did his best
to give Frau Silbert a favourable impression of me, and I
exerted myself to the same end. Frau Silbert, without
making difficulties of any kind, promised me sittings
;
but, the previous day having been All Saints', she intended
to visit her parents' graves, either that afternoon or the
next, and midertook to give me a sitting on whichever
''
I ought to explain that no possible blame attaches to Professor
Walter for his delay in replying, this having been due to the fact that
Dr. Tischner, through a misunderstanding, had written to him of a
proposed visit on the 4th of November.
^ [W. F. Prince], Experiments with Physical Mediums in Europe
(Boston Society for Psychic Research, Bulletin VII : Boston 1928),
pp. 70 et seq.
436 Theodore Besterman [part
evening remained free. This was to be decided by a
telephone call to me at my hotel. I accordingly said that
I would leave my card and write the name of the hotel
on it. As I was about to do so, Professor Walter, know-
ing that my card bore, as my London address, that of
the S.P.R., and fearing that this might prejudice Frau
Silbert against me, intervened to say that I had better
write the necessary information on his card, which I did.
This incident, which scarcely occupied a second or two,
did not escape the notice of Frau Silbert, and the hitherto
cordial atmosphere now cooled. During our call I several
times heard raps, which seemed to be made on the wall
behind the medium, and on the table. I knocked three
times in a particular rhythm, and this was reproduced.
The arranged telephone call did not arrive, and on the
morning of Saturday, the 3rd of November, at about
11.15, I called again on Frau Silbert. The door was opened
by her little grandson, who informed me, after inquiry,
that his grandmother was still in bed, but that I would
be telephoned later. I returned to the hotel to await this
call, which also never came. In the afternoon I called
on Professor Walter, explained the situation to him, and
we decided to go out again that evening. I suggested that
these difficulties might be due to the unfortunate impression
made on Frau Silbert by the visiting card incident, and
that something ought to be done to counteract it. Ac-
cordingly, during our evening visit, when we were received
by Frau Silbert's daughters, Ella, Paula and Mitzi (Marie),
I succeeded in bringing the conversation rovmd to eccen-
tric visiting-cards, and producing my own by way of
illustration, left it on the table. Before we took our leave,
Fraulein Ella, the eldest and most influential of Frau
Silbert's children, definitely promised, on behaK of her
mother, a sitting for Monday evening at Professor Walter's
flat. We were told that it was impossible to have one
sooner owing to the medium's health ; on Monday it
transpired that Dr. Maner had had a sitting on Sunday
evening. The suggestion that the sitting should take place
at his home came from Professor Walter liimself, I having
feared to make such a proposal. The final details were to
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 437
be settled on Monday morning, by telephone, between
Fraulein Ella and Professor Walter. During Monday
morning accordingly. Professor Walter telephoned me to
say that the sitting was fixed for about 8.30 that evening,
but that the Silberts had asked that it should take place
in their own home, and that Dr. Auer should also be
present. To both these changes I readily agreed.
On arrival at the Silberts' flat at the appointed time,
we were informed that, in addition to Dr. Auer, a Dr.
Maner was also to be present. When the latter arrived,
he brought an uninvited friend, a Dr. Wunsch, with him.^
At 9 o'clock the sitting began, but before proceeding to
an account of it, it will be as well to give a sketch and
a brief description of such features of Frau Silbert's
sitting-room, which is that used for her mediumistic
purposes, as are relevant to what follows. Frau Silbert
always sat at A, and thus had the large window at her
DOOR
o
o
o
Ji
,
DOOR ^
FIG. 13.
This sketch is not to scale.
right, the door leading to the entrance hall facing her,
the door leading into a large bedroom at her left, and
1 1 could not help wondering what would have been said if I had
ventured to introduce a stranger in this way !
438 Theodore Besterman [part
another door (that of a cupboard, I beUeve) behind her
and to her left. The distance from position A to the wall
behind it, ignoring an intervening sideboard, is approxi-
mately 6 feet ; and this distance will show, with suffi-
cient accuracy for our present purpose, the general
measurements represented on the sketch, which does not
pretend to be exactly to scale.
At the present sitting, then, the sitters were disposed
round the table (with reference to Fig. 13) as follows :
Frau Silbert at A, Professor Walter at B, Dr. Auer at C,
myself at D, Dr. Wunsch at E, and Dr. Maner at F.
Immediately, I felt a touch on the left knee, and heard
raps ; these two classes of phenomena occurred throughout
the sitting, which lasted about 3| hours. As nothing
occurred which would make a purely chronological record
valuable, and in view of the method of observation about
to be described, I will discuss separately the raps, the
touches, and the other phenomena. I will begin with the
raps.
The table in Frau Silbert's room (as shown in Fig. 13)
has a flat wooden cross-piece, about 3 inches from the
floor, connecting the four legs. Immediately on taking
my place I pressed my feet tightly beneath the central part
of this cross, thus controlhng, from my position, the whole
of this junction of the four radiating spokes. Each time
raps seemed to come from the table, I felt on my feet
that pressure had been exerted on the cross-piece. This
pressure was not synchronous with each rap, as "would
reasonably be expected were the sounds produced by an
outside force coming into contact with the table, thus
producing the rap, and then withdrawing before making
the next contact and rap. On the contrary, the pressure
persisted throughout each series of table-raps, and ceased
at their completion. This suggested the possibility that
the table-raps were produced with the toes, the sound
of these raps, as if made on wood, being produced by
placing the foot or feet on the wooden cross-piece. ^ And
this hypothesis of course bore as a corollary the further
1 I can vouch for the possibility of this as I have succeeded in repro-
ducing these raps myself in the manner suggested.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation^ 439
possibility that other types of raps might be produced by
placing the foot in other positions.
This theory, clearly, could only be tested by the most
careful observation. I therefore determined to devote a
continuous period of time exclusively to the raps, and from
9.15 to 10.30,1 I carefully noted everything that appeared
to have some bearing on them. Unfortunately, I was
unable to continue observation of the phenomenon—the
pressure on the cross-piece—on which this decision rested,
for soon after the beginning of the sitting the table rapped
out instructions to the sitters to change their places. For
the rest of the evening we sat as follows : Frau Silbert,
as always, at A, Dr. Wiuisch at B, Dr. Auer at G,
Professor Walter at D, myself at E, and Dr. Maner at F.
From this position I was no longer able to control the
whole of the central cross, but only one of the narrower
sides ; and although I placed my feet under it as before,
I no longer felt confident that I could correctly interpret
the various pressures I felt from time to time.
From another point of view, however, the change in my
position was most advantageous. For my new line of
sight enabled me to obtain a better view of Frau
Silbert's body, and I soon noticed that the medium, as is
of course perfectly natural, sometimes sat with her feet
under her chair, sometimes with her feet in front of the
chair in an ordinary seated position, sometimes with her
legs stretched out before her, and with the appropriate
variations, as, for instance, one leg stretched out and one
under the chair. Careful observation soon showed that it
was possible to see quite clearly whenever the position of
the legs was changed. However quietly the change was
made, it involved slight movements of the hips, and, to
1 The times given throughout this report are only approximate. I
witnessed no phenomena in which exactitude as to the time of their
appearance seems to be of much imjjortance, though I saw many the
sequence of which is vitally important. That is, it is of little use to
know that the medium X made a given movement of the foot at 4.33
and that at 4.331 one of the sitters felt a touch. It is enough to record
the sequence, namely, that the movement was immediately followed by
a touch. And the constant examination of a watch, often in very poor
light, is a dangerous distraction of the attention.
440 Theodore Besterman [part
a less degree, of the upper part of the body ; in fact, the
more quietly the feet were moved, the more noticeable
became the bodily movements. For a silent change in
position of the feet, involving, as it does, not merely a
shding backwards or forwards, but also a raising of them
from the floor, naturally involves greater muscular effort
than does a careless movement. In view of my notion
that Frau Silbert's feet might be on the cross-piece when
raps were heard from the table, this possibility of knowing
where the feet were placed at any given moment was of
the greatest value.
I now noted the changes in position of the medium's
feet in connection with the direction from which the raps
seemed to come, and observed that the situation of her
legs always ^ corresponded with the apparent source of
the raps. That is, whenever Frau Silbert's legs were
under the table, the raps seemed to come from the
table, whenever her legs were in front of the chair, the
raps seemed to come from the chair, and whenever her
legs were under the chair, the raps seemed to come from
the chair or from the wall behind the medium. I heard
raps from no other source, although Frau Silbert and the
other sitters frequently pointed to the ceihng, to the other
walls, and to various objects, as sources of raps. I have
very little doubt that , so far, at any rate, as the sitters
were concerned, this was simply auto- or hetero-suggestion.
Further, series of double raps, sometimes of considerable
loudness and rapidity, were several times heard on the
table : but only when both Frau Silbert's legs were under
the table. And a further series of raps was heard, which
seemed to come alternately from the wall and the table,
and from the chair and the table : but never when both
Frau Silbert's legs were under the table or under the
chair. It is noteworthy that these raps never alternated
between the wall and the chair, perhaps because the
difference in the quahty of the sounds is not sufficient to
1 Or, to be perfectly accurate, with a single exception out of a series
of 18 to 20 observations, at the first sitting. On this single occasion
raps came from the table when I thought that both Frau Silbert's feet
were under the chair.
Ill] Four Months'' Tour of Psychical Investigation 441
make the phenomenon effective. Again, although I some-
times heard raps at the same moment as I felt a touch,
at no time did I feel a touch during one of the series of
double or alternating raps. Finally, throughout this time
I repeatedly rapped on the table in various tempi and
rhythms ; when these raps were made openly they were
nearly always reproduced ; but when done privily, or
without first drawing Frau Silbert's attention to them, they
were never reproduced.
At this point, rightly or wrongly, no doubt remained in
my mind that the raps were produced by Frau Silbert's
feet ; and for approximately the following hour I con-
centrated my attention on the touches and on the
kindred phenomena. These consisted, strictly, of two
kinds : (a) hght touches, pressure, and even blows, and
(6) pulls of the trouser-legs ; but with these phenomena
may be conveniently classed movements of objects
performed, and engravings of objects placed, under or in
the immediate neighbourhood of the table. We have
already made the crucial observation that no touches and
the hke were felt when double or alternate raps were
being produced. The decision to concentrate observation
on the touches was made in the following circumstances.
At 10.5 Frau Silbert said that she would try to get her
controlling spirit. Dr. Nell, to perform once more the now
famous feat of engraving his name on articles placed on
the cross-bar below the table. She asked Dr. Auer to go
into the bedroom and bring a certain small medaUion and
chain. While he was out of the room and the sitters were
animatedly discussing what they hoped they were about to
experience, Frau Silbert leaned back and placed her feet
with considerable pressure on the cross-bar. At a given
moment this pressure was relaxed and immediately after
I felt a blow on the right knee. At 10.15 the medalhon
and chain was placed on the cross-bar, and Frau Silbert,
referring to the allegations brought against her in
connection with her alleged prepared shoes, stockings, and
so on, rose and tried to take off her shoes. ^ She declared,
^ These were bar-shoes, that is, with a single strap buttoning across
the arch.
2f
442 Theodore Besterman [part
however, that they were too tight to get off herself, and
her daughter Mitzi, who had entered from the bedroom at
the same time as Dr. Auer returned, had to remove them
for her. Frau Silbert showed that her stockings and shoes
were quite normal, and then put the latter on again,
stamping on each shoe to get it on.^ After a little time,
the light having in the meanwhile been turned down,
though by no means quite out, Frau Silbert flung her hand
above her head and, opening her clenched fist, produced
the medalhon and chain, the former bearing a roughly
scratched N. I now put my watch under the table, and
during the next half-hour the watch moved backwards and
forwards, a distance of some four or five yards in all,
sometimes on the cross-bar, and sometimes on the floor, but
never more than a foot or so away from the cross-bar.
When the watch was eventually recovered it had on
the lower curve of the outer case a mass of small scratches
and one long scratch right across the case. During this
half-hour I saw the watch twelve to fifteen times, but
never in movement ; other sitters, however, declared
from time to time that they saw the watch move
without contact.
At about 11.15 I felt on my left knee a touch which
gave most vividly the impression of being made by a foot ;
that is, I had the impression of being in contact with the
ball and heel of a small stockinged foot. I moved my
knee forward, and now came into additional contact with
a third object between the previous two, which gave the
impression as of the inner side of the arch of a foot,
and which then withdrew. A moment later Frau Silbert
asked the sitters to look under the table. They all did
so in a perfunctory manner, and everything seemed to be
in order ;
immediately after we had all looked up again,
I glanced under the table once more and now saw Frau
Silbert's feet out of her shoes and sufficiently far above
them to enable me to see the floor between the feet and
1 In view of what follows in this connection I may add tliat I sub-
sequently questioned Professor Walter and Dr. Auer on this j^oint,
independently of course. Both were quite certain that Frau Silbert had
put her shoes on again, the latter having even seen her do so.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 443
the shoes. During these last happenings the Mght above
the table was very dim, and beneath the table it was
consequently quite dark ; had Frau Silbert's feet at that
moment been an inch or two nearer the floor, so as to
make it impossible, from the line of sight of one bending
down and looking under the table, to see between her feet
and the shoes, it would have been impossible to know
whether her feet were in or out of the shoes.
In the above two series of special observations all
relevant phenomena have been brought together, but of
course there took place at intervals other phenomena, and
these I must now describe. From time to time throughout
the sitting, various messages were rapped through the
table ; of these I need only mention the two referring to
me personally. The one requested Professor Walter to
proceed rapidly with the book he is writing about Frau
Silbert's mediumship, that German and English editions
should be arranged to appear simultaneously, and that I
should undertake the English translation. The other came
a few minutes after I had observed Frau Silbert's feet out
of her shoes ; it ran thus :
" Niemals werden Doctoren
geistige sphaeren degradieren " [Doctors will never degrade
spiritual spheres]. As I am the only one of the five sitters
who is not a doctor, we naturally took tliis to apply to me,
and, on inquiry, the table confirmed this supposition. It should,
perhaps, be also recorded that during the sitting Ottokar
Kernstock, a poet very popular in the Steiermark, who had
died some hours before the sitting, announced himself
through the intermediary of the table, and gave the name
of one of his lesser-known poems. But it is quite hkely
that news of the poet's death had reached Frau Silbert,
for it was known to two or three of the sitters, and even
to myseK ; in any case, Frau Silbert admittedly knew of
the poet's serious illness.
At about 9.30 and again at about 9.45 a brilliant fiash,
accompanied by a faint hissing sound, was seen in the
corner of the room to Frau Silbert's left. I am prepared
to vouch for the fact that neither of these fiashes was
produced by Frau Silbert's hands, which were on the table
throughout these periods and, indeed, throughout most of
444 Theodore Besterman [part
the sitting ; but as they occurred at a point only a few
inches from the door of the room in which were Mitzi
and Paula, it would be wrong to attach too much
importance to it. At the same time, these flashes were
the most interesting phenomena I observed in connection
with Frau Silbert, and I am bound to add that if they
were fraudulently produced I am unable, failing inquiry
and experiment, to say how. Unfortunately, these flashes
were in each case of very brief duration, and, unlike
most of the other phenomena, totally unexpected. Careful
observation was therefore impossible.
At about 10.20 and again at 12.0, in complete darkness,
one of the sitters, the same in each case, reported phan-
tasms. On the second occasion Frau Silbert had apparently
fallen into a trance accompanied by stertorous breathing,
gasping, and the Uke. The above-mentioned sitter, badly
disturbed by Frau Silbert's abnormal behaviour and by
the darkness, exclaimed hysterically, and in rapid succession,
that he saw lights, three phantasms, felt first the touch of
a hand, and then of a child's hand, and so on. No other
sitter saw anything, except that one of them, when directly
appealed to by his friend, said " Ja, ja," and that I saw
a vague shape on Dr. Wunsch's arm (at B), the nature
of which I was unable to determine owing to the distance
and the darkness.
During the latter part of the sitting Dr. Auer described
the apparently supernormal movements, often observed by
other sitters, of the drawer of the table, which opened
towards Frau Silbert, at A, and therefore away from Dr.
Auer, at C. He put his hand under the table in order
to imitate for my benefit the kind of movements seen,
and at this moment the drawer shot out, to Dr. Auer's
great embarrassment. The drawer, though urgently pressed
to do so, refused to close itself, and at last had to be
pushed back by Frau Silbert. This was the only time the
drawer moved in my presence.
Finally, brief reference must be made to certain incidents
that are not precisely " phenomena " (rather the contrary,
indeed), but which are equally instructive. There were
three occasions during the sitting on which I accidentally
Ill] Foiir Months'' Tour of Psychical Investigation 445
touched, or was touched by, the foot of the sitter on my
right or on my left, and on which the sitter so touched
asked the other whether that was his foot he had just
felt. On each of these occasions, before the person
questioned had time to reply, ^ Frau Silbert said " Yes,
yes, that was no phenomenon." It must be noted in this
connection that when seemingly supernormal touches were
reported in the ordinary course, Frau Silbert declared
ignorance of them, and was as pleased as the sitters
concerned. Now, Frau Silbert must necessarily be ignorant
of any accidental contact that maj^ occur between two
sitters ;
and, being Hkewise ignorant of the occurrence of
supernormal touches, one is bound to ask how she dis-
tinguishes between them. The sitting concluded at 12.20.
During discussions with Professor Walter, Dr. Auer, and
a number of other gentlemen to whom sittings with Frau
Silbert are almost everyday occurrences, I was repeatedly
told that Frau Silbert produces the best phenomena when
her mind is distracted, and her imagination and emotions
are in play. I therefore considered, without coming to any
quite satisfactory conclusion, how these conditions could
best be produced ; but when I was later told that Frau
Silbert often went to the cinema, and that supernormal
phenomena had frequently been observed in her presence
at theatres and cinemas, it seemed to me that the solution
of my problem had been found. During the afternoon of
Thursday, the 8th of November, I called on Frau Silbert,
finding Dr. Auer already there. We conversed nearly two
hours, during the first few minutes of which the table
made one or two small movements ;
raps were heard at
intervals throughout. To my great satisfaction, Frau
Silbert then excused herself, as she was going to the
cinema ; I begged to be allowed to accompany her,
and, from a dark private box, we witnessed a most
^ It is only fair, however, to add that on the third occasion, having
become rather suspicious of these replies of Frau Silbert's, I set her a
little trap, though not, I hope, an unfair one. On being asked by Dr.
Maner whether I had touched his foot (which I had), I paused as if
doubtful and glanced questioningly at Frau Silbert, who promptly made
the usual reply.
446 '
'
Theodore Besterman [part
melodramatic film, in which Frau Silbert was completely
absorbed. Here, then, were the ideal conditions : privacy,
darkness, quiet, absence of all suggestion of a sitting or
of experimental conditions, the medium's mind far from
thoughts of the supernormal, and her emotional and
imaginative life aroused. But, to my disappointment, not
a single phenomenon of any kind occurred. Before we
parted a special sitting was arranged for the following day,
at which only Dr. Auer and myseH were to be present.
The sitting duly took place at Frau Silbert 's, at 4
o'clock, with Dr. Auer, Herr Kock, and myself as sitters.
Frau Silbert pointed out that she was wearing soft shppers
and rose to change them to shoes. I begged her not to do
so, in order to ascertain whether the shppers would make
any difi^erence in the quality of the raps ; but I was unable
to come to any definite conclusion on this point : the
raps were as numerous as at the previous sitting, and,
although there were no double and alternate raps, there
were a few which seemed quite as loud as before. At
about 4.45 I felt the same touch as at the previous sitting,
of an object like the ball and heel of a foot ; I again
pushed my knee forward and again felt what seemed to
me the complete impress of a foot. As the object with-
drew Frau Silbert's chair creaked. A few minutes later
the medium changed her chair for one that did not creak.
During the sitting, which lasted a Mttle over three hours,
raps and touches occurred intermittently, but I was unable
to observe anything new, merely confirming, so far as
possible, my previous observations.
An interesting development took place in connection
with the messages rapped through the table. I had given
an account of the apparently telepathic and clairvoyant
phenomena I had recently observed in Paris with Mme.
Kahl-Toukholka (whom I did not name), and this seemed
to arouse a sense of rivalry in Frau Silbert. For about
an hour after, the table rapped a series of messages
connected with my Paris experiences. Their substance
was that I was not to separate the Paris phenomena from
those I was observing with Frau Silbert, that I was to
adopt a critical attitude in Paris, and that Frau Silbert's
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 447
supernormal mental powers were only partially dead. I
said that I could not quite understand the instruction
about adopting a critical attitude, and asked the table
whether I was to understand that the Paris phenomena
were not genuine ; Frau Silbert shook her head, and then
the table rephed in the negative. Finally, at 5.35, came
the message :
" Sage dort ein Wort das sie hier zeichnen
wird " [Say there a word which she will draw here]. This
was interpreted (and the supposition was confirmed by the
table) as a proposed cross-correspondence to be attempted by
me between Frau Silbert and Mme. Kahl-Toukliolka. I very
much regret, however, that Professor Walter and Dr. Auer
refuse to inform me whether Frau Silbert performed her
part of this test. They take up this attitude on the
quite mistaken ground that, having come to an adverse
conclusion as to the physical j)henomena of Frau Silbert's
mediumship, I cannot be sincerely interested in the
success of this mental experiment.
During this long series of rapped messages, it sometimes
occurred (seven times in all) ^ that mistakes were made in
counting or interpreting the raps, so that a word or
sentence could not be understood, and that none of the
suggestions of the sitters was approved by the table. In
each of these cases the missing or incorrect parts were
supphed or corrected at Frau Silbert's initiative.
The following afternoon I called on Frau Silbert to say
good-bye, and we parted with the friendhest feelings,
which, speaking for myself, iwere and are perfectly genuine.
Before I left Graz I thought it right to inform both Dr.
Auer and Professor Walter of the observations I had made,
but asked them not to inform the medivim for the time
being, so as not to spoil the possibility of carrying out the
proposed cross-correspondence, and to this they agreed.
After a review of my first sitting and my informal con-
versations with Frau Silbert, I found it impossible to resist
the conclusion that the phenomena I had witnessed were
fraudulently produced. I did not come to this conclusion
^ This number is exclusive of the incident noted in the previous
paragraph ; there were of course many more mistakes which were at
once corrected by one or other of the sitters.
448 Theodore Besterman [PAKT
willingly, nor without a good deal of internal struggle.
For Frau Silbert, who has a most sympathetic personality,
had made a decidedly good impression on me ; and one
does not hke to put down as a fraud an elderly woman,
the mother and grandmother of a large family, a widow
in poor circumstances who has never accepted payments
for her sittings, even in times of acute difficulty. If,
therefore, I had any leanings away from the strictest
impartiality when studying the notes of my sittings, it was
distinctly a leaning in Frau Silbert's favour. But, as I
have said, it was impossible to resist the facts ; never-
theless, though I felt bound to adopt the hypothesis of
fraud, I still hoped that it might be possible to ascribe
the fraud to some aberrant impulse, unconsciously carried
out. For instance, how, I reasoned, can one accuse of
conscious fraud a woman, who, with tears in her eyes,
and taking one's hand in hers, refers, in tones trembling
with indignation, to the accusations brought against her 1
How can one so suspect a woman who points to her
white hairs, her ripeness for the grave, and speaks of the
sole inheritance she wishes to leave her children, since she
has no wealth to give them, that of a white and
spotless honour ? How can one so suspect a woman who
alludes to the temptation of a medium who, at a critical
moment, confronted by an investigator, finds that his
phenomena fail to appear, and fraudulently helps himself
out of his difficulty : a thing that she could never under
any circumstances do ?
I put on record these specimens of Frau Silbert's con-
versation, unusual though it may be to do so in a report
of this nature, because I have found on inquiry that the
same type of emotional appeal is exercised on all the
investigators who come to inquire into Frau Silbert's
mediumship. And it is important to know this, for I
must frankly admit that the state of feeHngs thus pro-
duced in me, as, no doubt, in other investigators similarly
treated, was one in which I was not able to disallow the
mitigating theory of unconscious fraud until a further
analysis of the facts, and a further sitting, left me with
so clear a conviction that I could no longer honestly reject
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 449
it. To take a single instance, an instance of direct obser-
vation and not of inference, can one reasonably describe as
unconscious fraud the process of elaborately pretending, in
complicity with a daughter, that a shoe is extremely tight,
whereas the shoe is of a style which, however tight, is
easily removed, and which, in fact, was later so removed
under the table without the assistance even of the hands ?
And this without going at all into the reasons for
removing the shoe in this way.
It may, however, be argued that if one rejects the
hypothesis of unconscious fraud, and with it the existence
of an abnormal state of mind in the medium, it becomes
difficult to understand the psychology of a person who
makes speeches such as those I have summarised, and at
the same time ^ conducts a flagrant fraud. This is not a
real difficulty : any lawyer experienced in the examination
of interested witnesses will vouch for the possibiHty of such
conduct in persons of perfectly normal mentahty, and there
are few private individuals who are fortunate enough not
to have had similar experiences in their own fives. But
then there arises, of course, the question of motive : this
is a deficate subject, into which I do not propose to enter
very far. I will merely observe that financial advantages
are not the only ones which require consideration.
My indebtedness to Professor Walter is clear from many
references in the previous pages ; and I should also Hke
to thank Frau Silbert and her daughters, particularly
Fraulein Mitzi, for the uniform kindness and hospitafity
with which they met me.
V. F. A. RONDON-VERI: GRAZ.
During my visit to Graz I had the opportunity of
attending a meeting of the Grazer Parapsychologische
Gesellschaft. I had been told that a young painter, Herr
^ This expression is to be taken in the most Hteral sense : it was
actually during one of the speeches quoted that I felt one of the
pressures on my knee which seemed to me to have been made by Frau
Silbert' s foot.
450 Theodore Besterman [part
F. A. Rondon-Veri, had recently developed remarkable
mediumistic powers. The account I was given of the
astonishing phenomena he had produced made me very
anxious to meet him, and Dr. Wehsch, the President of
the Parapsychologische Gesellschaft, to whom I was
introduced by Professor Walter, very kindly gave me this
opportunity of doing so. During the course of the evening
one of the members gave an address summarising the
literature about Theresa Neumann. During the part of the
lecture that dealt with her stigmatisations Herr Rondon-
Veri left the room for a few seconds and immediately after
his return complained of pains in his left palm. The palm
being examined, it was found to bear on one of the lines
a shght wound, or rather, a subcutaneous congestion of
the blood, as if the skin had been rubbed with a blunt
instrument. This appearance, which was interpreted as an
incipient stigmatisation, was the only phenomenon I was
able to see in connection with this medium.
VI. TIBOR MOLNAR AND LAJOS PAPP : BUDAPEST.
Very promising reports had been received by the Society
from Hungary concerning two physical mediums, who, it
seemed, were being investigated in a most scientific manner.
And the Society having been asked to investigate the
phenomena of these mediums, the task of doing so was
delegated to me. During my stay in Budapest I had
the pleasure of being the guest of Mr. Karoly Rothy, one
of the Society's two members in Hungary.
I learned that these two mediums, Tibor Molnar, a
painter, and Lajos Papp, a skilled turner, customarily sat
together. But on my representations it was arranged that
in the three sittings I had with these mediums the first
should be held as usual, the second with one of the
mediums alone, and the third with the other medium
alone.
It will be convenient to begin with a brief description of
the room in which the first two sittings took place. This
PLATE I.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 451
ground-floor room, the studio of Molnar, is about 30 feet
square, with one corner cut off by means of a Ught partition
which does not reach to the ceihng. The table (illustrated
in figs. 14 and 15) used at the sittings has a kind of box,
containing a slab of sculptors' clay fixed to its under surface,
and closed with wire-netting which forms the central part
of a thin piece of wood which, when in position, prevents
access to the whole under-surface of the table (see fig. 14).
^
This table was placed a couple of yards from one of the
walls, near the position shown in fig. 16, except that in
the illustration the table is rather nearer the wall. The
medium ^ was given his place between the table and the
wall, so that there was a distance of about a yard (exactly
the length of my outstretched arm) from the back of his
chair to the wall. Behind the medium and to his left
stood a light table on which was placed a box similar in
appearance and contents to that under the experimental
table, but larger and of simpler construction (fig. 17). On
the wall behind the medium there hung several canvasses,
most of them tacked or nailed to the wall, but one in a
comparatively heavy frame, the lower edge of which was
at about the height of the medium's shoulder when seated.
I asked Molnar to make a ground-plan of his studio, and
in this he exaggerated the distance between the table and
the wall to such an extent as to show them separated by
half the length of the room, which is itself also exaggerated
in relation to the width. This is a point of some im-
portance, as will be seen from what follows.
I now give a hteral translation (with comments in the
right-hand column) of the German text of the official
record of the first sitting ; this record was dictated by
Dr. von Pap in Hungarian, and translated into German
by Mr. Rothy ; I then signed the original version subject
to its being in agreement with the German text. Anyone
^Figures 14-19 are reproduced from photographs very kindly given
me by Dr. von Pap.
^ Throughout this sitting, by " the medium " is to be understood
Molnar, whom I controlled. Papp sat at the other side of the table,
largely invisible to me, and appeared to take an active share in the
sitting in only one slight instance.
452 Theodore Besterman [part
who has taken part in sittings for physical phenomena
will recognise the great difficulty of framing a report which
shall not only meet with the approval of all the sitters
but also convey a fair impression to persons who were
not present. The record printed here is, in fact, better
than many documents of this kind, as much time was
spent in compiling it, and it embodies suggestions from
various sitters, including myself. It is quite accurate,
indeed, so far as it goes. But much is omitted, and I
think that the impression a reader would gather from the
report, if it stood alone, would be misleading. Accord-
ingly, I have added some comments of my own.
FIRST SITTING : MOLNAR AND PAPP.
Record of the sitting in the
studio of the painter Tibor
Molndr, on the 14th of Novem-
ber [1928].
Present : Tibor Molnar,
Lajos Papp, as mediums, Dr.
Elemer von Pap, Messrs,
Ludwig Herkelyi, Karl Rothy,
Devecis del Vecchio, Theodore
Besterman, the two last as
controllers of the left and
right of the medium Molnar.
At the gramophone : Kellner,
Jun.
The sitting began at 8
o'clock in the evening, and
concluded at 9.30.
With the exception of young
Kellner, who worked the
gramophone, all the sitters
took their places at the table,
forming a chain and placing
their hands on the table.
Previously all pockets had
been emptied, and the sitters
The presence of this boy
cannot be regarded as satis-
factory, but I am inclined to
think that he did not assist
in the production of the
phenomena.
The object of this search is
.
not very clear ; external
PLATE II.
PLATE III.
Ill] Four Months'' Tour of Psychical Investigation 453
searched by one another, in order
to establish whether all the
pockets were really empty.
The hair of both mediums and
also the beard of the medium
Papp, and their pockets and
clothes, were particularly ex-
amined and found empty. The
medium Molnar was particu-
larly searched by Mr. Bester-
man, who found nothing on
him beyond his pocket-hand-
kerchief.
All those present had phos-
phorescent bands placed on
their wrists and feet (shoe-
caps). During the sitting
there was continuous control.
The light-bands on hands and
feet were capable of being
continuously observed and
consequently the phenomena
could apparently not have
been produced by them [that
is, by the hands and feet].
The ten phosphorescent discs
[on the walls]. (40-50 [square]
centimetres [in area]) and the
phosphorescent strips on the
table, provided so much light
that observation was always
possible. Mr. Besterman was
repeatedly stroked from the
knee to the armpit, received
blows and attempts to tickle,
and also touches on the left
breast. As all stood about a
metre from the table, repeated
raps in the tempo of the
gramophone were heard, then
pockets are the last places in
which the medium or an
accomplice would hide in-
criminating objects.
That is, I perfunctorily
tapped his pockets. No sug-
gestion was made that I
should undertake a real search
and the kind of examination
proposed was clearly useless.
The light -bands on the feet
were not worn on the shoe-cap
but rather further back on the
shoe, as shown in figure 16.
The words in brackets, " light-
bands on," and " apparently,"
were inserted at my request.
The record omits to state
that before the formal begin-
ning of the sitting, and while
the two mediums and the boy
Kellner were in the partitioned-
o£E corner, a number of beans
fell in the room.
These touches felt distinctly
as if made by the toe-cap of
a shoe. Consequently I deter-
mined to concentrate attention
on the light-bands round the
medium's feet. I soon ob-
served that the left band
behaved in the manner that
454
the table rose without being
touched and made shaking
movements at a height of
about 15 to 20 centimetres.
A box, closed with wire-
netting (aperture 8 mm.), the
key of which was in Mr.
Besterman's possession, and in
which, 8 cm. below the wire
netting, a sheet of clay had
been prepared, was placed on
the table. All had to place
their hands on the box, upon
which, to the accompaniment
of heavy pantings and con-
vulsive twitchings on the part
of the medium, the controlling
spirit explained [verbally] that
it was " finished," whereupon a
pause was made. Immediately
thereupon there were observed
on the clay in the still unopened
box, six scratches from 2 to 5
mm. deep and about 2 mm.
wide [see Plate IV, fig. 18].
[part
would normally be expected in
a human foot. That is, it
made slight movements of
various sorts. The right foot-
band, however, was absolutely
still : it was impossible to
detect any movement in it,
and it became quite clear to
me that there was no foot in
the band. '
After the series of touches
had been proceeding for a
considerable while, the medium
began stretching backwards on
his tilted chair, pulling the
controlling hands with him.
At the same time he brought
his left hand, which was
controlled at the wrist only,
over to my side and tried to
push my left hand, which was
controlling his right hand
rouiid the fingers, down to his
wrist. I refused to allow this,
and after three failures the
medium resumed his normal
position, calling out :
" Weak,
no power." In a few minutes
Molnar again started leaning
back and pushing my hand
down to his wrist. This time
I permitted him to do so.
Immediately there followed, in
that order, scratching sounds
on the wall, as if the heavy
frame had been moved, knocks
on the little table, movements
of the box containing the clay,
and scratches on its wire-
netting. During the whole of
Theodore Besterman
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 455
After a pause of about 15
minutes, all, including Kellner,
took their places at a distance
of about one metre from the
table. In response to the wish
of the controlling spirit the
gramophone had to be played
again. On the table behind
the medium were heard raps
in the temi^o of the music. The
light-bands at hands and feet
were now particularly observed.
During the raps it was ob-
served that the light-band at
the edge of the table was
obscured, as if by a shadow
this time there had been
proceeding movements and
levitations of the larger table
round which we sat, and I felt
touches on the right side of
my chest. These were, of
course, aU reported at the
time. The placing of the box
on the table did not occur
until 10 to 15 minutes after
the medium had resumed his
normal position and further
raps and touches had taken
place. It was then that
Molnar asked for the change
in position of the box. The
convulsive twitchings of the
medium consisted largely of
violent blows with the palms
of his hands on the box, and
as my hand was round one
of the palms in question, I
did not particularly enjoy this
part of the phenomena.
That is, the boy Kellner had
to leave the circle.
This shadow seemed to me
456 Theodore Besterman [part
which seemed to come from
the direction of the medium's
body. After this all had to
move to this table, on which,
after heavy blows on the table.
Dr. Pap (leader of the
experiments) asked whether an
impression on the clay had
been made, which the con-
trolling spirit answered in the
affirmative. In the meanwhile
was heard the sound of the
falling of small objects on the
other table. Later six beans
and a pebble were fomid in
the locked room. In the
sculptors' clay placed at the
underside of the table were
observed several scratches [see
Plate IV, fig. 19].
to have exactly the shape of
a shoe. At the moment this
phenomenon occurred there
were no raps and no touches.
These blows were, of course,
produced by the medium's
hands.
Molnar would probably have
had some difficulty in produc-
ing these " apports," but it
must not be forgotten that
Papp, a specialist in apports,
as we shall see in the account
of the sitting with him, was
present all this time, under
problematical control.
On the conclusion of the
phenomena the medium vio-
lently tore his hands out of
control and collapsed in a heap
on the floor with his hands
and feet under his body. The
control was resumed in a few
seconds and the sitting brought
to a close.
(Signed by all present except
the medium Papp.)
My conclusion after the sitting was that the medium
withdrew his right foot from the light-band, which re-
mained on the floor. These Kght-bands have both sides
luminous, but only half of their circumference, so that
whether on or oil the medium's foot, the same semi-circle
of luminosity is always visible. The only difference is that
PLATE IV.
Fig. 10.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 457
the light-band, when on the medium's foot, has a sUghtly
more fiUed-out appearance than when off the medium's foot.
I was not able to detect the difference with certainty until
after about haK-an-hour's close observation. It may be
worth adding that these bands are fitted with press-
buttons, and that the medium wore pointed shoes.
Having thus obtained the free use of a leg the medium
in my opinion produced with it the table raps and touches.
A distant touch, as on my shoulder or on my right side,
was always preceded by the medium stretching backwards
and sideways away from me. It is said that sitters at the
side of the table opposite to that of the medium have
sometimes felt touches, but this did not occur at my
sittings. The scratches on the clay in the box were
produced, in my opinion (as formed during the sitting),
either by means of one of the nails with wliich several
canvasses were fastened to the wall behind the medium,
or by means of a pencil-Hke piece of wood hidden behind
the heavy frame or elsewhere. After I had seen the
scratches it was clear that their size and their depth below
the wire-netting precluded the use of a nail, and this
made me conclude that the hypothetical piece of wood was
the instrument used. In the light of this theory, it
became possible to understand the medium's behaviour
before the scratches were made. It seemed to me that he
pushed my hand down to his wrist in order to free his
right hand ; and that he then stretched back and pulled
out the piece of wood secreted behind the frame, which
was somewhat to his right, and thus necessitated the use
of liis right hand. This would explain the scratching
sounds on the wall ; these were foUowed by knocks on the
table, which appeared to me to have been caused by
investigatory pokes with the " pencil " until the top of
the box was found, thus producing the scratcMng sounds
on the wire-netting. (It will be remembered that when
Mohiar was asked to make a plan of his room, he altered
the proportions in such a way as to make it seem quite
impossible for him to reach the wall while seated at the
table.) During the whole of these manoeuvres the medium
had the free use of his right leg, and, supporting his tilted
2a
458 Theodore Besterman [part
chair with his left leg, there was nothing to prevent him
touching me or moving the central table with the other.
The scratches in the clay below the table I considered
to have been clearly produced by means of a similar
instrument held by the toes of the foot, the object used
being in this case probably secreted in the medium's shoe.
In any case, the medium would have had ample oppor-
tunities during the pause, no search being made after it,
to provide himself with such an instrument. This theory
would explain the foot-like shadow against the leg of the
table (at which time there were no raps and touches), and
the violent withdrawal from control seemed to me intended
to provide the medium with an opportunity for putting
on and lacing his shoe.
After the sitting I made discreet inquiries, at a meeting
of the Budapest Society for Psychical Research and else-
where, from gentlemen who had attended sittings with
Molnar, and elicited the following facts. It seems that
some time before my visit a local notability who had
been invited to a sitting had suddenly switched on a torch
and had declared that he had seen Molnar's foot out of
its light-band. The other sitters had denied his assertion.
I was told, further, that some months before Molnar had
announced, during the course of a sitting, that in addition
to the marks in the clay in the larger independent box,
he would materialise the object with wliich Consuelo (his
controlling spirit) had produced the scratches. And, in
fact, when the box was examined there was found beneath
the wire-netting, lying on the clay, a thin piece of wood
some inches in length. (Dr. von Pap had shown me at
the time of my sitting a series of envelopes, carefully
arranged and numbered, in which he was preserving the
apports produced in Molnar's sittings. I did not recollect
having seen the described piece of wood amongst these
objects, and, on inquiry, was told by Dr. von Pap that
he had not preserved it.) Finally, it transpired that Dr.
von Pap himself had commented, at a sitting some time
before, on the curious resemblance between the feel of
the ectoplasmic terminal and the toe of a shoe.^
' This fact should perhaps make it unnecessary to point out that there
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 459
These facts not unnaturally removed my last doubts as
to the validity of my hypothesis, and I informed my host,
Mr. Rothy, of my views. I gave Mr. Rothy a demonstration
of how the actions which I ascribed to the medium could
be performed, and was fortunate enough to win him over to
my way of thinking. Having thus secured his assistance,
I suggested that we should propose at the next sitting
that the medium should wear liis hght-bands round the
ankles ; I ventured to prophesy that the medium would
refuse this change in the position of the hght-bands, or his
controlling spirit would request to have them removed,
or there would be no phenomena.
SECOND SITTING : TIBOR MOLNAR.
I now reproduce, as before, a hteral translation of the
German text of the official record made of the second
sitting.
Record of the sitting on the
17th of November, 1928.
Place and sitters as on the
13th of the month, with the
exception that Lajos Papp (the
second medium of the previous
sitting), left before the sitting
owing to ill-health. To the
sitters has to be added Dr.
Geza Ujlaki. Medium : Tibor
Molnar alone.
The sitting began at 8
o'clock in the evening, and
concluded at 9. The condi-
tions were the same as on the
13th, except that at the wish
of several sitters the medium
wore an additional light-band
below the knee and that the
Dr. von Paj) consented very
willingly to the alterations
proposed by me and supported
by Mr. Rothy and by another
gentleman to whom he had
communicated my views.
is not the slightest reflection in these proceedings against Dr. von Pap's
absolute integrity.
460
light band on the shoe was
fastened at the ankle.
The controlling spirit de-
manded that the previous
arrangement of the light-bands
should be resumed, but he was
begged to allow the new
arrangement to remain at least
during the first part of the
sitting. On this the phenomena
failed to appear. In the pause
Tibor Molnar explained that
he was ill and complained of
pains in the region of the
stomach. After a pause of
about 10 minutes the trance
condition did not return. As
the right hand of the medium
made movements as of writing,
a sheet of paper was placed
on the table, on which the
following words in Hungarian
were then to be read :
" Gy-
enge vagyok ;
gyomormerge-
zisem van " (I am weak,
have stomach poisoning).
(Signed by all present.)
[part
Molnar objected strongly and
had to be reminded several
times to place the light-bands
in their new positions.
The words were, of course,
written by the medium.
Theodore Besterman
It will be seen that all three forecasts were thus realised :
the medium refused to have the Kght-bands in the new
positions ; when these were insisted upon, the controlling
spirit tried to have them removed ; and when this failed,
no phenomena appeared. Further comment seems useless.
THIRD SITTING : LAJOS PAPP.
On the evening of the 18th of November took place a
three hours' sitting at the flat of Dr. Janos Toronyi, with
the medium Papp alone. The eight or nine sitters formed
a chain, with their hands on a light table, in total dark-
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 461
ness.^ I controlled the medium's right hand, and, observing
that there were three lines, hardly of light, but of lesser
darkness, at the edge of one of the windows on his left,
I sat in such a way as to have the medium's head
intercepting my hne of sight to these three faint hues.
The palms of the sitters were placed on the table and I
controlled the medium's right hand by placing my hand
over his fingers and thumb, and his foot by placing the
sole of my foot on his toe-cap. I arranged with the
controller of the medium's left side to adopt the same
methods. Almost immediately after the lights were
extinguished, the table began moving and tapj)ing out
messages by means of which, during the course of half an
hour, some twelve spirits announced themselves. One of
the sitters made a joke about this large influx from the
spirit world, and the medium, supposed to be in deep
trance, laughed loudly.
Soon followed levitations of the table, each such move-
ment being preceded by a backward movement of the
medium's head. This suggested the possibihty that the
medium was producing the movements with his left leg,
for I had liis right foot under good control. Accordingly,
from time to time I asked the gentleman controlhng the
medium's left side whether he was guarding the latter's
hand and foot, and was always met with an emphatic
affirmative. But when the lights went up at the interval,
I saw that this gentleman was " controlhng " the medium's
left leg by bringing the side of his own knee into contact
with that of the medium. In these circumstances—it has
been noted that the medium was always in movement,
often quite violent—he had the free use of his leg from
the knee down, and considerable freedom of the whole leg,
quite enough to account for all movements of the table
observed so far.
But even this control, amounting, in eiTect, to freedom
of one side, did not satisfy the controlhng spirits, who
carried out at this point an elaborate series of changes in
the positions of the sitters. Among other changes, a
^ I was unable to note the exact number owing to changes, late
arrivals after the beginning of the sitting, etc.
462 Theodore Bester man [PAET
young man who was present in order to develop his
mediumistic powers, was expelled with a good deal of
emphasis, and the medium's left side was now to be
controlled by a certain gentleman of an uncritically
spirituaUstic type. Several sitters were told to leave. On
the resumption of the sitting, the same unevidential table
movements recommenced, and three objects, which were
later discovered to be beans, were heard to fall on the
table. Even if the probably too conservative assumption
be adopted that the medium had not succeeded in
getting his left hand out of control, it must be noted
that Papp is an abnormally silent man, and could easily
have secreted the beans in his mouth. We shall have
occasion to return to this point in connection with
similar occurrences at a later stage of the sitting.
The medium is a large and very powerful man, and after
he had repeatedly tried and failed to pass off my left hand
on the left controller as his own (the medivim's) left hand,
he began, and continued for about five minutes, a series
of most violent contortions and constrictions of his massive
hands. The controller of the medium's left hand simply
let it go, and I myself, in order to retain control, had to
rise and circle round the medium. On this Papp redoubled
his extraordinary convulsions, until I began to suspect that
these, to me, painful manoeuvres, were performed in order
to oblige me to release control of his foot ;
and, indeed,
in order to avoid this, I fear that in the acrobatic evolu-
tions necessary in the darkness to retain control of the
medium's hand and foot, I was obliged from time to time
to step pretty hard on the latter, though not, I trust, to
the extent of causing the medium any inconvenience. My
own hand, at any rate, was stiff and sore for two days
afterwards.
Half-way through the sitting a short pause was made,
during the whole of which the medium was out of the
seance-room. In the second part of the sitting there was
a nominal red hght, but this was so faint that its presence
was only realised when it was looked at. I had been
informed that it was customary for the more important
apports to be produced in the second portions of these
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 463
sittings. I therefore observed the medium very carefully
and noted that up to the time when three stones, the
largest of which was afterwards found to be about two
inches across, fell with a clatter on the floor, the medium
had uttered no word of any kind. It was unfortunately
impossible to examine the apports for moisture, for the
sitting did not conclude until an hour after their arrival.
Immediately on the resumption of the sitting there
began a scene of the utmost violence. All the sitters
were told to rise, and the table, with the hands of the
" sitters " and of the medium on it, moved rapidly all
over the room. It made a determined effort to get into
an adjoining room, an effort which unfortunately failed.
The medium then reseated himself, and there followed a
series of violent simultaneous movements of the table and
of his chair. These evolutions kept the sitters in rapid
and continuous movement all over the large room for
about half an hour. But the more violent the movements
of the table and chair became, the less the medium was
able to control himself, and the more noticeable became
his own movements. At last his heavy breathing, the
movements of his head or shoulders (according to his
position) against the strips of light at the window, the
muscular tensions of his hand and of his body ( a leg
control was out of the question) enabled me to form what
appeared to me an exact picture of the manner in which
the medium was producing the table and chair movements.
As I was vmwilhng, though greatly tempted, to abandon
my rule of obedience to the prescribed conditions of pro-
cedure, which in this case included an injunction against
breaking the circle,^ I was only once able to j)ut this to
the test. On this occasion I had visualised the medium
dragging his chair behind him with his left foot, pushing
the table with his chest, and from time to time stopping
and knocking it up with his right knee in order to give
the appearance of a levitation. During one of these
^ I should like to say, however, that at practically all the sittings I
have ever attended these prescribed conditions were being constantly
broken by the mediums' friends themselves, and the present sitting was
no exception.
464 Theodore Besiermdn [part
knocks the sitter at my right let go my hand ; I took
advantage of this rapidly and hghtly to pass it over the
medium's body, the position of which I found to corres-
pond exactly with what I had supposed.
At a given moment the medium, by now thoroughly
exhausted and perspiring profusely, flung himseK at full
length on a couch which stood against one of the walls,
and at the foot of which lay a number of cushions. I
now stationed myseK by the side of the couch, kneehng
with my left leg on it and against the side of the medium's
left leg, and still holding his right hand. On either side
of me the sitters re-formed the circle, with the table in
their midst. I now saw, against the light strips at the
window, the medium's left hand, quite free, reaching out
towards the table. I immediately took hold of it with my
right hand, and henceforth I controlled both hands during
the whole time that the medium was on the couch. Later
the medium's left hand was also held by the sitter on my
left, and my left hand, holding the medium's right, was
similarly held by the sitter on my right. Under these
conditions it was impossible for the medium to come into
normal contact with the table ; and during the twenty
minutes or so that this position was maintained, the table
made not the slightest movement.
But this period was by no means free from phenomena,
for the cushions at the medium's feet, one of which it was
unfortunately impossible for me to control, leaped into the
room one after the other. Whenever they were replaced
(always at the medium's feet !), they were again flung off
the couch. Later, the medium groped with his hands for
the table and, laying them on it, pushed himself off the
couch with liis full weight and strength. Now the table
came to hfe. The sitters and the medium resumed their
previous decorous places around it, and movements and
messages recommenced. At this point I was practically
certain that the whole performance was fraudulent ; con-
sequently, with less fear of offending the medium's feelings,
I placed my left foot between and in contact with both
his feet. At the same time I categorically requested the
gentleman controlling the medium's left side (though at
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 465
this moment he was certainly not controlhng his left foot),
to inform me whether he had the medium's left hand
under proper control. I repeated this question several
times, at intervals, and was always met with an indignant
affirmative. Nevertheless, during this period, when, it
must be remembered, I had full control of the medium's
right hand and of both his feet, and when I was able to
see his head and any object that might occupy the space
in front of it, against the lines of light at the window,
there occurred movements and levitations of the table.
These phenomena were thus very impressive, and had it
been possible to feel confidence in the other controller's
notion of control, it would have been necessary to admit
that these movements were not produced by the medium.
My fears as to the nature of the control of the left
hand were, however, verified by a fortunate accident.
During the sitting one of the ladies present was taken
by an epileptoid seizure, with characteristic flapping move-
ments of the hands. With one of these movements she
struck against the electric light button which hung over
the table. The sudden hght revealed the medium, with
his left hand controlled at the wrist only, grasping one
of the legs of the light table, which was_ in partial process
of being levitated. The medium, thus discovered in
flagrante delicto, immediately flung himself on the floor at
full length, and with great violence tiirned and twisted
himself round and round Uke a giant top, until repeated
magnetic strokings, administered by two sitters at the cost
of severe kicks on the shins, had counteracted the injurious
effects of the svidden illumination. As soon as the medium
had recovered and I had assured myself that he had
received no permanent injuries, I informed one of the
sitters of my views and took my leave.
VII. ZAKARIASNE PAPP : BUDAPEST.
While in Budapest I was strongly advised to visit a Frau
Papp, who, I was informed, was a clairvoyante of such
remarkable powers that on the last occasion she had been
466 Theodore Besterman [part
summoned by the police, the latter had been unable to
obtain a conviction owing to the quahty of the evidence
put forward on her behalf. Such an opportunity naturally
was not to be missed, and in company with a police
official, who translated the medium's Hungarian into Ger-
man, I took the opportunity of calHng upon Frau Papp.
I was not favourably impressed by her methods ; she made
considerable use, for instance, of the well-known formula :
" Is your grandmother hving ?
"
"No."
" Just so. I saw an old lady by your side."
From the point at which I politely refused to answer
questions, the medium made 37 specific statements referring
to family, professional, and financial matters. Of these
thirty-one were incorrect, and six partially or wholly
correct ; the whole of these six related to matters which
were quite or largely obvious, such as, that I was inter-
ested in psychical research, and had recently made a long
journey.
VIII. LUJZA IGNATH: BUDAPEST.
In Budapest I also had the pleasure of making the
acquaintance of Frau Lujza Ignath. I had previously been
given a great deal of information about this lady by Mr.
Rothy, who has had a considerable number of sittings with
her, and particularly by Frau Lujza Lamacs-Haugseth,
who has had the opportunity of studying Frau Ignath
during a long period of time and on intimate terms, and
who has written an account of her in the publications of
the Norwegian Society for Psychical Research.
It appears, then, that Frau Ignath presents a case of
multiple personality, one of these personaUties being
apparently endowed with supernormal faculties, both of a
mental and of a physical type, but chiefiy characterised
by clairvoyance. On the evening of the 15th of November
I was present at one of the rare sittings now given by
Frau Ignath, who is fully occupied with her business. I
formed part of an avidience of nineteen persons, nearly all
women, some of whom were called to her side by Nona,
Ill] Four Months'' Tour of Psychical Investigation 467
as the clairvoyant secondary personality is named. I was
unable to observe any substantial differences of expression
or of psychic characteristics between Frau Ignath and
Nona, whose appearance was preceded by a rubbing of
the eyes. At first sight the clairvoyant, or at any rate
the telepathic, phenomena shown by Nona seemed very
impressive, for written questions were answered in a
seemingly satisfactory manner without being read. But it
appeared, on inquiry, that all those who had been called
up, with one exception, were old friends of Frau Ignath.
The questions answered and the information given to the
lady forming this exception, appeared veridical, but as the
proceedings took j^lace exclusively in Hungarian, and as I
was dependent on whispered translations, I scarcely feel
competent to pronounce an opinion. This exceptional case,
however, has some interest from another point of view.
I had naturally hoped to be among those called upon by
Nona, only to be informed by her that she never under-
took to give information to people at their first sitting,
and this though she had a few minutes previously called
upon the lady just mentioned.
During the course of the sitting Nona hypnotised, in
excellent professional style, a young girl of shghtly hys-
terical type, and gave her the common post-hypnotic
suggestion that she was to ask for a glass of water on
awakening, which she duly did. At the conclusion of the
sitting both Nona and Frau Ignath were good enough to
say that they would be very happy now to give me a
personal sitting.
This was arranged for the evening of the 16th at Frau
Lamacs-Haugseth's hotel. Owing to the illness of her
child and other reasons, Frau Ignath was unfortunately
obhged to be very late, and during the short time that
she was able to remain, Nona did not manifest, to Frau
Ignath's great regret. However, she expressed great
anxiety to satisfy my interest and a further appointment
was made for the afternoon of the 19th, at the same
place.
On my arrival I learned with regret that Frau Ignath
had met with a slight accident and was laid up. She had
468 Theodore Besterman [part
warmly invited me, however, to come to her flat, which
I was very glad to do. I enjoyed a two-and-a-haK hours'
conversation with her, during which I learned of many of
her striking feats of clairvoyance. Before my departure I
left with Frau Ignath the test-tube II provided by
Dr. Moll,^ and being requested by her to put three
questions, I asked :
" What is in it ?
" " Who has put
it together ?
" " Whence has it come ?
" together with a
request to Nona to add whatever she pleased.
The following morning Frau Lamacs-Haugseth telephoned
to say that a few minutes after I had left the previous
evening, Nona had appeared and had made a statement
about the contents of the tube, but that this was only of
a preliminary nature. I therefore decided to leave the
test-tube with Frau Ignath, Frau Lamacs-Haugseth kindly
undertaking to forward it to me as soon as Nona had
completed her determination of its contents. The test-tube
has since been returned to me and by me to Dr. Moll,
together with the clairvoyant statements made by Nona.
Dr. Moll considers this experiment to have been a total
failure, and with this I agree. Several persons, however,
to whom I have shown the papers, consider this view
mistaken, and that Nona was partially successful. I
therefore give a literal translation from the German of the
reports of Frau Lamacs-Haugseth and of Dr. Moll.
On the 22nd of November 1928, Frau Lamacs-Haugseth
wrote to me as follows :
" According to our arrangement,
on the 20th of November I showed to Frau Ignath's
iVorta-individuality the phial II left by you in Budapest
on the 18th of November, and now communicate to you
the following :
I asked Nona the questions formulated by us on the 18th
of November in the presence of Frau Ignath, who was then
unwell
:
[Here follow the questions printed above.]
But first I must repeat what I told you on the 19th, that
Nona appeared on the previous day after we had both left
because you had another engagement and we could therefore
^ See page 412 above.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 469
not wait until the iVoria-conscionsness manifested. Nona told
Herr Ignath and Herr Olah, briefly, that in the phial there is
not only writing, but also something else, something that
concerns many people, and which is at present followed by
few, though later many will follow it ; she would say more
about the matter later.
On the 20th she said the following about the phial II,
about 15 cm. long, about 2 cm. in diameter, closed with a
solid white substance. Nona spoke Hmigarian, I translate her
words :
*
'
I answer all the questions together, as I see it in pictures.
'
A man has made this, three men saw it. This thing
originates from a wise head who is honoured by many people,
and whose words are attended to by many people. He is led
by love, which he would like to introduce into human souls.
But at heart this wiU be more believed in if convincing
information comes from the other side.
'
The meaning of that Avhich is in the glass plays an im-
portant role for mankind. I see pictures before me ;
writing,
dust, flowers, wood, stone, bones ; all this comes together, I
do not know why, but I see it so.
'
Those who open this glass will be convinced of a thing
which hitherto no one knew with certainty, the immortality of
the soul, a thing which interests all men. A few who have
come to it through personal experiences recognise it, but the
mass of mankind will recognise it more after the passage of
much time. I see many, many people whose happiness depends
upon this recognition. This is a great, eternal thing ; so long
as there will be men, this will also exist. Love, love, love over
all, as much here on earth as on the other side, whence come
this information and this inspiration. This inspiration and this
wish shall be believed in and followed.
'
This glass and its contents come from far, far beyond the
home of the man who brought it here ; lands and water and
languages lie between.
'
What have I myself to add ? When these my words are
read it will be said that I am unsystematic. This is true.
This is my failing since the beginning, since I am, since the
creation of the world, as I also was there. But if my words
are read and correctly understood, and compared with the
470 Theodore Besterman [part
essence of the contents of the phial, then it will be seen that
my words agree with the essence and the meaning of its
contents. And then one can oneseK introduce system into my
answer.'
"
I sent this report, together with the phial, to Dr. Moll,
who replied :
The test-tube contained black paper, such as that used for
the packing of photographic plates ; within this was placed a
part of the cover of a work ; on this part appears the following
title :
DiKETTORE DEL MaNICOMIO DI TeRAMO (AbRUZZI-ItALIA)
What Nona said is for the larger part mere verbiage ; it
is quite certain that the description is not correct.
Proe. M. Levi Bianchini
Presbiogenesi
disfrenie e displasie presbiogeniche
(Generazione tardiva e malformazioni
somatoj)sichiche del fenotipo)
[Nona]
A man has made this.
Three men saw it. Four people were present
with me. I cut the piece from
the cover. At the cutting my
secretary and my technical
assistant were also present ;
but they did not see what it
was ;
during the packing there
was also the housekeeper.
That is correct.
[Dr. Moll's comments]
This thing originates from
a wise head.
As to whether I am wise I
should not like to express an
opinion, nor concerning the
continuation ;
compliments
nearly always form the intro-
duction.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 471
That which is in the glass
playa an important role for
mankind.
I see pictures before me ;
writing, dust, flowers, wood,
stone, bones.
Those who open this glass
will be convinced of a thing,
etc.
The glass and its contents
come from far, far beyond the
home of the man who brought
it here ; lands and water and
languages lie between them.
I do not know whether it
plays such an important role.
At any rate there were
neither flowers, nor wood, nor
stone, nor bones in it.
I do not believe that the
contents have made so deep
an impression on anybody as
is here described.
This must no doubt refer to
you, Mr. Besterman. But if
so, the description does not
apply to Germany [the test-
tube was originally sent to me
from Berlin to Munich, and
Frau Ignath knew that I came
from England] ; for the glass
would have had to have come
from America, perhaps from
Greenland, or the Arctic
regions.
I think that it is hardly worth while to discuss the matter
further.
It is difficult to imagine that any experiment could have a
less positive result than this one ; the contents are obviously
not recognised at all. Not even the statement about the three
men is accurate, none of those present saw the contents,
nobody had previously read the leaf ; I had taken it at random
from a quantity of printed matter and had cut it without
seeing it myself.
However, the experiment is very instructive from a negative
point of view. We had to smash the glass in order to get at
the contents.
I have to thank Frau Lamacs-Haugseth for the time and
trouble she took to make this experiment possible.
472 Theodore Besterman [part
IX. ANNA KARLIK: BERLIN.
While I was in Berlin I made inquiries as to available
mediums, and was informed that the only physical medium
with any reputation is Frau " Volhardt." This medium is
studied by Professor Schroder, who was unfortunately
unwilling to give me facihties for making her acquaintance.
Among the mental mediums, I was informed by several
psychical researchers, Frau Karlik and Peter Johanson are
the most successful. By the kindness of Herr Rudolf
Grossmann, I was enabled to have a sitting with each of
these mediums.
Frau Anna Karhk is an elderly woman who has a
considerable reputation in Berlin.^ She does not go into
trance, but gives information as to character, the future,
and so on, while in a more or less normal state of
consciousness. I called on her in company with Herr and
Frau Grossmann and Herr von Brentano. In view of the
very favourable reports made to me of Frau Karhk's
supernormal faculties, I have thought it right to put my
sitting with her on record. But to give an account of
this lengthy sitting would be superfluous. Not a single
one of the statements made to the four sitters was correct
or, if correct, evidential. In these circumstances it
seems scarcely worth while to do more than record the
bare fact.
X. PETER JOHANSON: BERLIN
Johanson specialises in psychometry and has a large
following. He is a man of striking personahty and
physical appearance, and he makes use of the latter to
hypnotise (using this word in its popular sense) his more
impressionable chents. I paid a visit to him accompanied
by the same lady and gentlemen as above. Johanson was
* Cp. Anna Karlik. Anerkennungen und Kritiken iXbcr hellseherische
und psychometrische Sitzungen, sowie Ausziige aus Sitzungsprotokollen
(Berlin [1928]).
Ill] Four Months^ Tour of Psychical Investigation 473
a little more successful than Frau KarHk, for he analysed
Herr von Brentano's character in a manner that seemed
somewhat to impress the latter. Subsequent discussion,
however, showed that all the statements made by Johan-
son could easily have been deduced from facts known to
him. Jolianson was quite unsuccessful in all his statements
referring to the other three sitters.
XI. LUDWIG KAHN: BERLIN.
Herr Grossmann also very kindly made an appointment
for me in his own flat with Ludwig Kahn, who has been
very well known for many years as a clairvoyant. Quite
recently the results produced by him at sittings in Paris
greatly impressed the French investigators.^ I was there-
fore gratified at this unexpected opportunity of meet-
ing him. Unfortunately Kahn was over an hour late at
our first appointment, at which Dr. Dessoir was also
present, and when he arrived said that he was too tired
to undertake any experiments. He made another appoint-
ment for the evening of the same day, which he subse-
quently cancelled. And no efforts would induce him to
make another appointment during the remaining day that
I was to be in Berlin.
Later, however, a sitting was arranged for Dr. Dessoir
(under an assumed name, as before), and of this sitting
Dr. Dessoir has kindly sent me a report, with permission
to publish it. A literal translation of this report follows :
" Sittiyig on the 7th of December at the home of Rudolf
Grossmann.
Present : Ludwig Kahn, Herr von Brentano, Professor
Dessoir, Rudolf Grossmann.
Kahn takes a sheet of paper brought by Dessoir, tears
from it three pieces of equal size, and asks one of the
three gentlemen to write something on his piece of paper
and to fold it while he [Kahn] is out of the room. From
1 See E. Osty, " Un Homme doue de connaissance paranormale, M.
Ludwig Kahn," Revue Metapsychique (Paris 1925), pp. 65-79, 132-143 ;
Charles Richet, Notre sixieme sens (Paris [1927]), pp. 178-190.
2h
474 Theodore Besterman [part
the remaining part of the sheet Kahn tears a part and
leaves a piece of exactly the same size as those distributed
to the sitters. After he has left the room, the folder
containing this j^iece of paper is removed at Dessoir's
request. Kahn returns, asks to be shown the three
pieces of paper, held by Dessoir, and requests that they
be uniformly folded. Then he asks Grossmann for paper
and pencil. He now receives a piece of paper of totally
different appearance and has no chance to effect the
substitution which he had perhaps planned. He demands
that the three gentlemen should sit in a row, and against
the light, requests Dessoir to remove his glasses, and
asks to be given one of the folded papers for a short time.
He then returns this paper and begins a conversation,
after Dessoir has given the other two papers to the
gentlemen sitting by him. So passes a quarter of an hour,
then Herr Kahn explains that he cannot arrive at the
necessary concentration and begs for a new sitting for
Tuesday, the 11th of December, at 11 o'clock. This
sitting he afterwards cancelled."
From Berlin I proceeded to Copenhagen, where I hoped
to have sittings with the physical medium Einar Nielsen.
Unfortunately, however, notwithstanding the appeals of
Professor Winther and of two of his supporters, Nielsen
refused to give me a sitting.
XII. PASCAL FORTHUNY: PARIS.
On my return to Paris for further sittings with Mme.
Kahl, I had the opportunity of sittings with several other
mental mediums. Chief amongst these was Pascal For-
thuny, with whom the French investigators have obtained
very remarkable results.^
I made M. Forthuny's acquaintance during the course
of a pubhc demonstration given by him of his supernormal
faculties. Some of the phenomena then witnessed were
distinctly impressive ; but all the persons concerned being
^ See E. Osty, Une Faculte de connaissance supra-normale : Pascal
Forthuny (Paris 1926).
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 475
unknown to me, I could attach but little evidential impor-
tance to phenomena thus pubhcly obtained. Fortunately,
M. Forthuny very readily agreed to give me a private
sitting, which duly took place.
At this sitting, which lasted about an hour, M. Forthuny
made a number of statements, about half of which were
accurate. Amongst these were two which appear to be
excellent examples of thought-transference, and one of
them even contains what seems to be an element of
prevision. Unfortunately, both these cases are of a private
nature, and cannot be pubhshed. I have, however, put
them on record and submitted them to Mrs. Salter, whose
opinion is as follows : "I have seen Mr. Besterman's
report of the two incidents which occurred during his
sitting with M. Forthuny. Both of them seem to me to
show good evidence of knowledge supernormally acquired,
being quite beyond chance-coincidence. In the second case
it seems all but impossible to suppose that M. Forthuny
should have acquired the knowledge by any normal means,
and this is very improbable in the first." This record has
been filed in the Society's Rooms.
Among the remaining incidents may be mentioned M.
Forthuny's very emphatic assertion that I am totally
unmusical. This is quite true. M. Forthuny's statement
impressed me the more as every previous medium with
whom I have ever sat, who has touched on this point,
has described me as musical. Nevertheless, the odds
against a chance success are of course very small.
Later in the sitting M. Forthuny said : "At last you've
got the rooms as you wanted them . . . no, it's two
rooms ... at last you have the desk as you wanted it
. . . at last the electric hght has been changed . . . how
pleased you are !
" All this apphes with complete accuracy
to the recent reorganisation of the Society's Library. It
is quite hkely that M. Forthuny had heard of this ; but
it is extremely unhkely that he should have known
about the desk and the hght, for in order to see that
changes have been made in these respects it would be
necessary to have a clear recollection of the Library's
appearance before the alterations. M. Forthuny has never
476 Theodore Besterman [part
been in England, and anyone likely to mention the re-
organisation of the Library to him would be most unlikely
to have such a recollection, and even if so, would hardly
go out of his way to mention these details.
The Society hopes to have further sittings with M.
Forthuny, and in the meanwhile I have to thank him for
having so readily given me an opportunity of witnessing
his supernormal faculties in action.
XIII. RENE DAUMAL: PARIS.
I took advantage of my presence in Paris to make the
acquaintance of M. Rene Maublanc, who has repeated M.
Jules Romains's experiments into an alleged " paroptic
"
faculty. 1 M. Maublanc kindly allowed me to participate
in one of his sittings with a young student, M. Rene
Daumal, with whom he is at present experimenting, and
also to arrange one sitting with him myself. I now give
a literal translation of the record of the former sitting.
" Paroptic experiments—Thursday, the 20th of December
1928, at 15.30, in the flat of Rene Maublanc, 9 Avenue de
rObservatoire, with Rene Daumal, in the presence of Mr.
Th. Besterman and of Andre Cuisenier, Professor at the
Lycce Rollin.
First series. Daumal, his eyes bandaged, lies down on a
couch. His face is covered with a red cloth.
1. R. Maublanc puts into his hands a book of very
small format chosen by Mr. Besterman [chosen, that is,
from among a number of volumes in the same series
offered to me] {La belle et la bete, Payot, Collection Minia-
ture). The cover of this book is of cloth : background old
gold, with small flowers in white, mauve and pink, with
very small green leaves and black stalks. The light is very
bad.
Answer :
'
The general colour is mauve. I also see
yellow and black. I see rather vague designs in mauve
outlined in black, and within longish yellow spots. The
1 See L. H. Heyn and R. Maublanc, TJne education paroptique (Paris
1926) ;
cp. JounK S.P.R. (April 1928), xxiv. 234-239.
Ill] Four Months' Tour of Psychical Investigation 417
black lines, which are fairly thin, form a rather sinuous
network.'
2. Fly-leaf of the same book. It is an irregularly
marbled paper, in the following colours : blue-green, light
green, sap-green {vert cle vessie), and reddish brown, the
whole rather dull.
Answer :
'
A yellow background with rather light mauve
spots. A few smaller and triangular red spots. I see
green hues outlining a red spot.'
3. Mr. Besterman chooses another book of the same
collection and format : Cent epigramnies grecqiies. Cloth
cover : very dark blue-violet background, round and oval
red spots, with black lines in the middle, grey-green leaves.
Answer :
'
In general, dark violet with some red and
yellow spots. The violet is very dark. kSome lines rather
lighter than the violet.'
4. Fly-leaf. Wine-red background, regular blue-grey
spots, the larger spindle-shaped, the smaller round. The
latter surrounded by gold dots.
Answer :
'
I see green, pale blue, orange-yellow. The
whole is slate blue.'
The light being very bad, R. Maublanc projects the
light of an electric lamp [on to the fly-leaf].
Answer :
'
Thin red and yellow lines forming large curves,
and some blue-grey. The yellow is in rather irregular
round spots. The grey is in large strips.'
5. R. Maublanc returns to Daumal the cover of La belle
et la bete, illuminating it with the electric light.
Answer :
'
I see a brighter red on a blue background.
The red is perhaps a very bright yellow forming large
spots between a vague circle of blue spots, with toothed
contours.'
6. Fly-leaf of La belle et la bete.
Answer :
'
Obliquely elongated green spots on a yellow
background. The green is greyish and rather dull. The
yellow is rather pale and dull, it is more hke beige or very
hght brown.'
Second series.
1. In a wooden box open on one side only and lighted
with an electric lamp placed inside, R. Maublanc places
478 Theodore Besterman [part
two pla3dng cards chosen by Mr. Besterman : on the left
the three of diamonds, on the right the ten of spades.
Answer :
'
On the left a red card ; on the right a
black one. The red is diamonds, the black spades. On
the spades there are many spots ; it is the ten. On the
left is the eight of diamonds, but I am not quite sure.'
All these answers are made rapidly, nobody else saying
a word. R. Maublanc then said :
'
If you are not sure,
look again more carefully.' Daumal, who has so far been
using his left hand, now puts his right one near the
cards, and says :
'
I now see the spades on the left, with
few spots. It must be the five. No, the six or the three.'
2. Mr. Besterman chooses two other cards which R.
Maublanc puts in the box [this is incorrect, they were put
in by me] ; the two of diamonds on the left, the ten of
clubs on the right.
Answer :
'
It is again diamonds on the left, and clubs
on the right. I am no longer sure whether it is diamonds
or hearts ; in any case it is a two. The clubs is the
five or the eight ;
probably the five. '
"
It may be added that these cards are placed side by
side in a slit provided inside the small box ;
they are
outside the medium's hne of sight. These results were
interesting enough to justify a further sitting, and M.
Maublanc and his subject kindly came to my hotel the
following day. A series of colour and card experiments
was tried with the medium's eyes securely bandaged, but
without any apparatus. The results were as follows.
Object. Percipient's Answer.
Red, Green, green or red.
Green, Red, or rather orange.
Yellow, Blue.
Blue, „ Very dull red, purple, dark brown.
Terracotta, Yellow, it first seemed blue.
Grey, Red.
Green, Yellow, pale blue.
Blue, Green or red.
6 spades, diamonds, 2.
Ill] Four Months'' Tour of Psychical Investigation 479
Object {cant.). Percipient's Answer {cont.).
10 hearts, clubs, 8.
8 hearts, spades, 9.
10 hearts, spades or hearts, 3, 3 spades.
2 hearts, diamonds, 5
6 spades, clubs, 6 or 8, 8.
8 clubs. diamonds, numerous pips, red, 10, 8 or 10
diamonds, 10.
8 clubs. spades, 7, 6, diamonds, 2, does not feel
very certain.
6 spades, hearts, 5.
I then handed to the medium, one after the other, a
number of letter-cards I had prepared with written and
coloured contents. With these M. Daumal was quite
unsuccessful. Nevertheless, I feel that experiments with
this subject should be continued, and I am glad to say
that M. Warcolher has agreed to collaborate with M.
Maublanc in doing so.
XIV. THE DOG ZOU: PARIS.
During my stay in Paris I had the pleasure of making
the acquaintance of Mme. Carita Borderieux, who has been
studying psychical phenomena for many years. This lady
has recently taken up the study of so-called " thinking
"
animals, and has herseK trained a " calculating " dog, a
mongrel spaniel named Zou.^ Mme. Borderieux kindly
invited me to witness some of the feats of this dog. She
told me that he is able to answer such questions as lend
themselves to a simple affirmative or negative reply, and
that he is able to perfoi'ni simple sums in addition,
subtraction and multiplication.
The procedure is as follows : Zou is placed in close
proximity to a box of biscuits, Mme. Borderieux seats
herseK opposite him, addresses a question to him or states
the problem to be solved, puts out her hand, and on this
^ See C. Borderieux, Les nouveaux animaux pensants (Paris 1927), and
the same writer's periodical Psychica (Paris), passim.
480 Theodore Besierman [part 111]
Zou taps his answer with his paws. Thus, on being asked
to multiply six by four, Zou tapped on Mme. Borderieux's
palm twice with one paw and four times with the other
(
= 24). On observing that Zou, though very friendly and
good-tempered, refused to tap on any other hand but that
of Mme. Borderieux, I watched the above-described pro-
cedure rather more attentively. I soon noticed that Zou
knew which paw to pat because Mme. Borderieux placed
her hand nearer that j^aw than the other. He also knew
how many times to pat because when he had brought
down his paw the necessary number of times, Mme.
Borderieux made a slight movement of her hand. Zou's
intellectual abilities are thus restricted to the abihty to
recognise the two signals just indicated, a feat not
beyond the average capacity of a dog.
I should like to add that I consider it quite possible to
make such signals unconsciously. I have to thank Mme.
Borderieux for the opportunity of making Zou's acquain-
tance.
ON THE ASSERTED DIFFICULTY OF THE SPIRI-
TUALISTIC HYPOTHESIS FROM A SCIENTIFIC
POINT OF VIEW.i
By Sir Oliver Lodge.
PART I.
The interesting communications in Proc. S.P.E., Vol.
xxxviii, pp. 281-374, by Mr. W. H. Salter and an
anonymous writer Mr. V., respectively, on the communi-
cations coming through Mr. V.'s hand and purporting to
be inspired by a little-known deceased poetess, Margaret
Veley, will, I expect, attract attention from several points
of view. I limit myself to some remarks on a passage
in Mr. V.'s well-informed and critical paper, p. 366,
which runs as follows :
". . . Regarded as a scientific working hypothesis, spiritism does
not seem to me to be a very hopeful avenue of investigation.
The spirit hypothesis has a delusive appearance of simphcity,
but so also had Kepler's hypothesis of guiding angels. And
how remote this was from the complex reality of Einstein's
description of gravitation! In fact, if these supernormal
mental phenomena depend on the whims and caprices of
departed spirits, then I for one despair of ever being able to
discover any law and order in them.
Undoubtedly there is some difficulty, in our present
state of comparative ignorance, about specifying or formu-
lating the spiritistic hypothesis in any precise and so to
speak scientific manner ; for it is an appeal to the activity
of unknown agents, acting by unknown methods, under
iThis paper was read at a General Meeting of the Society on
May 6th, 1929.
481
482 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
conditions of which we have no experience, and by means
of which we are unaware. We get into touch, or appear
to get into touch, with these agencies only when they
have affected material objects, for instance someone's brain,
thereby stimulating muscles so as to produce results which
appeal to our normal senses.
But the admission that we cannot understand how agents
work does not justify our denial of the existence of such
working. A good deal of modern mathematical physics is
in the same predicament. We do not really understand
how the properties of the ether, or of what it is now the
fashion to call " space-time," act in producing the material
effect we call weight or gravitation. We know a good
deal about it ; we can specify with precision the law of
" weight " in so far as it imitates the resultant of an
indejjendent and unscreened attraction of every particle
for every other. We can say that the earth acts nearly
as if its whole mass were concentrated at its centre, that
the law of force is different inside and outside, so that it
changes abruptly when the surface is penetrated, and that
the force attains a peak value at the surface, sloping
down differently on the two sides. We can speak of
the state of strain or " potential " to which the force is
due, say that it is continuous across the boundary,
give the law of its variation with distance, and so on.
Newton, in fact, correctly formulated the whole theory of
gravitation considered as action at a distance, but the
true mechanism of what seems like a condition of strain
or warp in space brought about by the very existence of
matter, was beyond him, just as it is still beyond us.
In phiIoso])hic mood, Newton was never satisfied with his
mode of specification. It merely gave the resultant effect
of something that simulated the direct attraction of one
body for another across apparently empty space ;
he had
to leave the inner meaning of such mysterious action for
future discovery.
Einstein discai'ded the attraction or force exerted by a
body at a distance, and replaced it by a geometry of
space which would account for, or at least expi'ess, the
observed behaviour in a more intimate and so to speak
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis .483
less magical manner. When a registering thermometer, with
a steel index, is " set " by means of a magnet acting
through the glass, the index is really moved by the
analogous but different modification of space (or ether) that
we call a magnetic field. An inert body can only be
perturbed or guided by something in immediate contact
with it ; even though the particular modification of that
" something," which enables it so to act, may be due to
the neighbourhood of a distant mass of matter, for reasons
which remain to be explored.
The fact that we sometimes have to postulate an un-
known agency does not justify our attributing anything
capricious to that agency. We are ignorant of how the
gravitational agent acts, but we know that it acts in
accordance with law and order, so that the results can be
duly predicted. Einstein's view (if we may call it
Einstein's, though in one form or another it must have
been vaguely held by many) is after all not so very dif-
ferent from Kepler's asserted hypothesis. What Kepler
meant by " guiding angels controlling the planets " (assum-
ing that he used that phrase) I do not loiow ; but I am
sure he meant nothing capricious. He must have meant
that an unknown something guided the planets in their
path ; and that is a paraphrase of the modern view. The
something is now often spoken of as a warp in space—
-
acting as a sort of groove. In so far as Kepler postulated
something in immediate touch with a planet and acting
directly on it, he had what now appears to be truth
on his side ; his thesis being perhaps nearer the ultimate
truth, though far less practically useful, than Newton's
delightfully simple quantitative expression for the indirect
action of a distant body.
In order to illustrate direct guidance by contact action,
we may cite the familiar example of a gramophone needle,
which automatically reproduces a prearranged tune, simply
by following the path of least resistance. What else,
after all, can an inert thing do ? That is the meaning
of inertia. Animated things are not inert : they need
not take the easiest path. A man may climb the Matter-
horn for fun. But inanimate unstimulated matter never
484 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
behaves with any initiative or spontaneity : it is strictly
inert. Atoms never err or make mistakes, they are
absohitely law-abiding. If they make an apparent error,
if a locomotive engine leaves its track, we call it a
catastrophe. All machinery works on that principle ;
every portion takes the easiest jDath. It is true that to
get a coherent result there must have been planning and
prearrangement. Certainly ! In all cases of automatic
working, whether biological or other, that must be an
inevitable preliminary. But explorers of the mechanism
will detect no signs of mental action by their instruments
or their senses. To infer a determining or controlling
cause they must philosophise. Indeed, we may go a step
further and emerge from the past into the present :
—
A
wireless set talks like a gramophone, and to one accus-
tomed only to gramophones it would seem barbarously
superstitious to urge that in the wireless case some (pos-
sibly whimsical and capricious) operator was actually in
control. Statements may be unpalatable, and yet be
true.
Now return to gravitation. Planets behave as if they
were attracted by the sun. That is certainly true. But
what is attraction? A train is not attracted to its
destination; lightning is not attracted to a chimney ; but
it gets there none the less, by continually taking the
easiest path. So it is with a planet. Indeed, one might
say that everything inert takes the only path open to it,
it has no option. The law is a sort of truism. But the
principle, once recognised, has been formulated into a
clue ; the Principle of Least Action can be expressed
mathematically. Once postulate that, and the behaviour
of the inanimate portions of the cosmos can be accurately
deduced.
The modern statement that the planets move along the
line of least resistance, or the easiest path, makes their
case rather closely analogous to that of a railway train
guided by the rails. The path and destination of a train
are determined by the continual direct influence of the
rails, which make it easier for the train to travel in the
right direction than to jump them and go astray. We
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic HijiMhesis 485
might, if we chose, admit that the j^ath was laid down
or determined by the mentality of the surveyors and
designers of the route; but a Martian spectator with
partial information might still wonder at the apparent
intelligence which guided one part of a train to Man-
chester, and another part to Liverpool, in accordance with
the wishes of the passengers or the labels on the coaches.
If told that an invisible guardian angel switched over the
points to produce this result, he might resent the sugges-
tion as absurdly unscientific and preposterous; as on a
purely mechanistic view it would be.
After having studied trains for some time, our spectator
might begin to notice the novelty of a motor-car. His
first tendency would be to look for the rails in that case
also ;
and, finding none, he might superstitiously but
correctly surmise that a guardian spirit was guiding the
car to its destination. In this case, moreover, further
experience would soon persuade him that he had to allow
for an element of caprice. But even that is not fatal to
the truth : he need not throw up his hands in despair.
As soon as we introduce the activity of life and mind we
get out of mere mechanism and the results are not easily
formulated or predicted. The activities of an animal
cannot be expressed in mathematical terms, and yet
animal instincts and behaviour are subject-matter for
scientific investigation. It is assumed that they obey
laws of some kind. Science is not limited to the accurate
data and latvs of mathematical physics : and to claim that
a hypothesis is unscientific because we cannot formulate it
completely, or because we do not understand the method
of working, or even because there is a certain amount of
capriciousness about it, is more than we have any right
to claim. Anthropology and sociology are less advanced
sciences than physics and chemistry: they have to get on
as best they can, with a profusion of data, and with the
inevitable complications appropriate to live things. Let
us not be put out of our stride by the fear of retaining,
in modified form, some of the animistic guesses of primi-
tive man. Experience may lead us, as it led him, to
contemplate stranger modes of existence, and more whimsical
486 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
phenomena, than our long study of mechanism has led us
to expect. We must put aside prejudice, be guided by
the evidence, and strive for truth. The superficial simplicity
of materialism has served us well, as a comprehensive
covering, for many centuries, and we have made good
progress under its protection ; but it is beginning to get
threadbare and inadequate, it is not coextensive with
reality, and unsuspected influences are peeping through.
To sum up. A working hypothesis can be followed up
and developed rationally without being metrically exact in
its early stages. The important question about the spiri-
tistic hypothesis is not whether it is simple or complicated,
easy or puzzling, attractive or repellent, but whether it is
true. Its truth can only be sustained or demolished by
the continued careful critical and cautious method of
enquiry initiated by the S.P.R. under the Presidency of
a guiding spirit or guardian angel called Henry Sidgwick,
with the active (and I believe continuing) co-operation of
Edmund Gurney and Frederic Myers.
PART II.
And now, having finished what I have to say in con-
nexion with Mr. V.'s critical remark in the paper alluded
to, I propose to develop a theme of my own : first
asking the reader to consider what the spiritistic hypo-
thesis really is, and why there should be so much trouble
about even provisionally accepting it as a reasonably
scientific working guide or clue among the maze of phe-
nomena. I suggest that the trouble is mainly caused by
our philosophic views. If we are unwilling to admit that
we are sj^irits here and now, utilising material bodies which
we have automatically constructed for the purpose, then
probably any form of spirit hypothesis is unwelcome and
perhaps meaningless. If we are nothing but material
mechanism—if a collection of organic molecules, merely
by reason of their chemical complexity, can develop cer-
tain functions and reflex actions characteristic of what we
call life—if such mechanism can become aware] of itself,
can admire, and plan, and acquire a sense of controlling
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 487
its own actions, if in fact matter constitutes our essential
existence—then the hypothesis of an animating spirit may
well be considered unscientific and grotesque, and one
which ought to be abolished from the scientific vocabulary.
But many philosophers now urge, and I think reason-
ably urge, that materialistic j^hilosophy has broken down,
and does not cover the whole ground. Materialistic
mechanism is true as far as it goes, but it is not the
whole truth. The attempt to make it the whole truth is a
natiu-al outcome of the astonishing success of mathe-
matical ph5^sics during the last three centuries. This
powerful science at first dealt completely with moving
particles exerting mechanical forces upon one another
according to any prescribed law, then extended itself to
rigid bodies on the one hand, and perfect fluids on the
other, and so gradually included elasticity, viscosity, the
theory of the conduction of heat, and the molecular
movements associated with gaseous and other states,
including all the vibrations responsible for sound. This
science, penetrating to the actual forces at work and
analysing every detail of their action by a marvellous
method of mathematical deduction, seemed to form a
complete and satisfactory and ideal scheme. It began by
reducing astronomy to an admirable system of law and
order; indeed Newton and Laplace seemed to be initiating
the last word on the detailed elaboration of the solar
system, and events could be predicted centuries ahead.
Astronomy seemed approachmg a kind of perfection. The
complacency of nineteenth-century physics was remarkable.
Naturally an attempt was made to explain all pheno-
mena m the physical universe in terms of molecular
interaction : that was the ideal set before himself by New-
ton, and that ideal has been followed up ever since. So far
as the inorganic world is concerned we might hardly ex-
pect to dive deeper, for though the explanations really
leave a good deal of mystery from the philosophic stand-
point, it is the kind of mystery to which we have grown
accustomed in daily life, and usually ignore.
The most advanced sciences throughout the nineteenth
century floufished on this basis, and set an [example which
488 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
other sciences tried to follow. The ambition of j^^jsio-
logists has been to apply these same laws to organic and
living structures, and to work out the behaviour of the
animal and vegetable kingdoms on a physico-chemical
basis, and no other. Certainly there were experiences
which constantly suggested difficulties, and seemed to
demand something more; but it was hoped that these dif-
ficulties were of the kind that could be overcome by
further study, and by a still closer understanding of the
chemical and physical processes involved. There seemed
to be nothing in the universe but matter in various forms
of motion; and by a thorough study of matter and motion
it was hoped that the whole of nature might be under-
stood and explained.
To quote and abbreviate from Professor Whitehead's
book, Science and the Modern World, Chapter IV. :
—
The eighteenth centiuy was the age of reason ;
healthy,
manly, upstanding reason ;
but, of one-eyed reason, deficient
in its vision of depth. . . . Voltaire was typical of the virtues
of his century ; he hated injustice, cruelty, repression . . . and
he hated hocus-pocus. . . . But if men cannot live on bread
alone, still less can they do so on disinfectants. So the age
had its limitations ;
yet some of its main positions are still
defended in the schools of science. . . . The seventeenth cen-
tury had provided a perfect instrument for research. The
triumph of materialism was chiefly in the sciences of rational
dynamics, physics, and chemistry. . . . Nothing fundamental
and new was introduced in the eighteenth century, but there
was an immense detailed development. Special case after
special case was unravelled. It was as though the very
Heavens were being opened, on a set plan. ... In this century
the notion of the mechanical explanation of all the processes
of nature finally hardened into a dogma of science. The
notion won through on its merits by reason of an almost
miraculous series of triumphs in mathematical physics. Newton's
Princi2Ji(i was published in 1687, Lagrange's Mechanique
Analytique in 1787, and Clerk Maxwell's Electricity and Mag-
netism in 1873. Practically a century between each. Each of
these three books introduces new horizons of thought affecting
everything which comes after them.
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hyjjothesis 489
Fifty years later, however, there has begun a revolt ; a
revolt, strange to say, led by the mathematical physicists
themselves. It had been perceived that a study of matter
alone was inadequate, and that the behaviour of even the
simplest molecules could not really be understood without
attention to the properties of the space around them. In
fact it was found that empty space was endowed with
physical properties. Those properties cannot be in-
vestigated directly : we still have to attend exclusively to
matter in all experiments and observations, but the
material behaviour is found to be secondary and sub-
ordinate to the behaviour of empty space. Newton
seems to have strongly suspected something of the kind,
but at that time he could not make much headway in
this api^arently more speculative direction; and his theory
of matter particles acting on each other by unexplained
forces at a distance was so satisfactory from the mathe-
matical point of view and gave such exactly verifiable
results that any further treatment in the philosophical
direction seemed unnecessary, and at any rate had to be
postponed.
The revolt against the concentration of attention on
matter alone was effectively begun by Faraday during the
first half of the nineteenth century, and has been going
on at intervals ever since. Throughout the whole of his
masterful treatment, and so to speak creation, of the
science of electricity, Faraday insisted on the subordinate
part played by material bodies, especially in the pheno-
mena of electrostatics and the electric field. He pointed
out that charged conductors were merely the terminals or
boundary of an electric field, that inside them the field
was non-existent, that it ceased at the boundary, and
extended unbroken throughout apparently empty regions
between the visible and tangible bodies on which alone
experiments could be made. Their behaviour was a sign
or token or consequence of the unknown reality which was
going on in the space between them. The intervening space
might indeed be full of insulating material, but might equally
well be entirely devoid of matter. Space itself had what he
called a specific inductive cajjacity or dielectric coefficient,
2 I
490 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
of a nature and value unknown : unknown to this
day. Space is modified by the presence of matter, but
its properties are not material properties. The primary
happenings occur in vacuo. I gather that Epicurus and
other ancient atomists were the first to discover and
emphasise the importance of what they called '
the void.'
Much the same idea had already been promulgated in
the case of light or radiation. Light is not transmitted
by matter, but by space. Matter plays quite a sub-
ordinate part. Light travels with the greatest ease and sim-
plicity through the emptiness of space, and is only retarded
or interfered with by the most transparent matter. All
matter contains some trace of opacity ; and by opaque
matter light is merely destroyed, and its energy turned into
heat ; but space is perfectly transparent. The radiation
which reaches iis from the sun and stars has traversed
millions of miles of empty space without the slightest
loss of energy. We only detect it by its effect on
matter when it has arrived : it then affects the retina
of our eyes, our photographic plates, and the surface
of our skin, setting up the chemical and other changes
with which we are all familiar. In particular it operates
on the green parts of plants, and thereby renders possible
the whole of vegetation. All that we see in a wooded
landscape is due to energy which has arrived through
empty space, and represents a storage of that energy in
visible and tangible form. The energy has as it were
become incarnate in matter. A plant or a tree is an
incarnation of solar energy ; and the complete understand-
ing of vegetative processes is impossible without taking this
space energy into account. Just as a charged body was to
Faraday the termination of an electric field, so a vegetable
organism is the termination of a luminiferous field. (One
cannot say a " luminous " field; for space itself is not
luminous: it only becomes luminous when it encounters
matter. It may properly be called luminiferous or light-
bearing, for it conveys radiation without displaying it.)
Space itself is dark. It may be full of what we some-
times call ether tremor, but nothing is exhibited, nothing
is perceptible, unless a particle of matter is introduced.
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 491
It is only matter which appeals to our senses, and it is
only material objects that we see.
Thus it is through matter that we become aware of
the universe ; but we need not allow ourselves to fall
into the blunder of therefore considering that matter
is its most essential feature, or of confusing a pheno-
menon itself with its index and result. That would be
rather like imagining that the deflection of the needle of
a galvanometer was the essential thing about an electric
current. It would be confusing the manifestation or
sign of a thing with the thing itself. The movement
of a piece of iron may demonstrate the existence of a
magnetic field, and the field can be explored and in-
vestigated by the kind of material motions which it
causes, but moving iron is nothing like a magnetic field
:
it is only the sign or index of it. We shall never under-
stand the nature of the field by attending to its demonstra-
tion alone; and we should merely stultify ourselves if we
supposed that we understood magnetism or electricity by
merely studying the movements and rearrangements of
matter. Yet that is what we are tempted to do when
we are studying the behaviour of living organisms. All
we can observe is the motion of matter; and we are
liable to imagine that some of those movements constitute
life. They are the sign or manifestation of life : they are
not life itself. Movement of particles in a brain are very
different from '•
thought."
Essentially the same order of ideas holds even in
gravitational astronomy. The movement of the planets
demonstrates what is going on in empty space ;
those
movements are the index or sign of the real phenomenon.
A gravitational field exists between the worlds, and Ave
should know nothing of it except for their motions. We
can attribute those motions to a mysterious force which
they exert one upon another ; but Newton more than
suspected, and Einstein has elaborated, the idea that that
force is merely a sign or index—some might say a simu-
lacnmi—of some unknown condition existing in space, and
that it is to variations in that space condition that their
regidated movements are really due. Each particle moves
492 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
from instant to instant along the line of least resistance
or easiest path open to it. It is the space in immediate
contact with the particle that guides it ; and though we
may truly say that it moves as if it were attracted by a
distant body, we know that that is only a mode of expres-
sion—there is much virtue in an "if,"—and that it is the
state of the gravitational field in touch with each particle
which controls its motion and thereby demonstrates its
own existence. Some of what Faraday claimed for an
electric field can be extended to a gravitational field also,
though there are many important differences.
To step from these long-known and comparatively simple
examples to the spontaneous movements of a living organ-
ism, say an animal, is a very big step, and not one to be
undertaken lightly; nor can we treat live things with
anything like the same satisfaction or fulness of knowledge.
For the science of biology is comparatively in its infancy,
notwithstanding its immense range and the enormous field
open to its classification and investigation. I would,
however, direct attention to the possibility that in so far
as an organism surpasses mere mechanism, in so far as
not all its actions are reflex, in so far as it thinks and
contrives and plans, and is guided by anticipations of the
future and memory of the past—instead of being immedi-
ately obedient to present impulse like a planet or a
molecule—I suggest that the organism is the index or
demonstration of something beyond itself, something which,
though it may be said to be incarnate in matter, has its
more real and permanent existence in some other region.
Whatever this animating essence may be, it makes no
direct appeal to ovu- senses, and is only displayed or
demonstrated by its effect on organised material.
In all the cases that I have dealt with it is matter that
we observe. The underlying cause or motive power is beyond
our immediate apprehension, and is a matter of inference.
We infer the properties of an electric field from its effect
on what we call charged bodies. We infer and investigate
a magnetic field from the behaviour of iron and other
substances. We try to arrive at what an electric current
really is from its various influences on matter. And
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 493
Einstein is leading us to infer a curious warp or modifica-
tion of space from the effect it has on the perceptible
sensuous portions of the universe. So also I would hope
that we might gradually infer and investigate the nature
of an animating spirit from the behaviour of the organism
on which we presume it acts. For that there is some-
thing more than material mechanism in the universe is
now claimed by the leading mathematical physicists them-
selves ; —a claim which I will presently illustrate by some
quotations from the writings of that profound mathe-
matical physicist Professor Whitehead.
Deficiency of a purely materialistic view.
Matter has no initiative. Every particle moves as it is
impelled, without plan, aim, or intention, just a thoughtless
drift—though the result may be satisfactory or beautiful
when appreciated by an intelligent spectator. It is in-
structive to stand on a bridge and contemplate a brawling
stream flowing below; for one can realise that every
particle is accurately obedient to external forces, and that
the whole pattern is consistent with the equations which
mathematicians have laid down and worked out. The
mental satisfaction in such complete comprehension of an
intricate mechanical pattern is very thorough, and has an
aesthetic value of its own. To a purely scientific mind
this grasp of a problem has partially taken the place of
the more superficial enjoyment of light and shade and
colour and gleaming brightness and glowing depths, which
an artist takes delight in and transfers to canvas. The
abstract point of view, the not inhuman but ultra-human
contemplation of the scientific man, strikes deep into the
prevalent view of the universe. As says Whitehead, in
Science and the Modern World, page 24 :
—
The particular conception of cosmology with which the
EuroiDcan intellect has clothed itself in the last three centuries
. . . presupposes the ultimate fact of an irreducible brute matter,
or material, spread throughout space in a flux of configurations.
In itself such a material is senseless, valueless, purposeless. It
just does what it does do, following a fixed routine imposed
494 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
by external relations which do not spring from the nature of
its being. It is this assumption that I call '
scientific material-
ism.' . . .
And then he goes on to say that the assumption is
entirely unsuited to the scientific situation at which we
have now arrived. It is not wrong, if properly construed. . . .
It expresses certam facts to perfection. But when we pass
beyond the abstraction, either by more subtle employment of
our senses, or by the request for meanings and for coherence
of thoughts, the scheme breaks down at once.
The joy of scientific contemplation is not derived
directly from the concrete entities observed, but from the
way they fit into an abstract scheme. That is well
enough, but the abstract must not be allowed to scorn or
deny the concrete : a thinker should be tolerant and
open-minded. "The intolerant use of abstractions is the
major vice of the intellect."
There are two methods for the purification of ideas. One
of them is dispassionate observation by means of the bodily
senses.
The apparently trivial things all fit in as part of a whole,
and by faith may be fully appreciated by those who
grasp science in no narrow and exclusive spirit, but in
the spirit more usually associated with poetry. The
human mind contributes something to the processes of
nature, and deduces from them a depth of reality not
superficially apparent in the observed concrete facts and
extending far beyond them.
The faith in the order of nature which has made possible
the growth of science is a particular example of a deejDer
faith. ... To experience this faith is to know that in being
ourselves we are more than ourselves : to know that our
experience, dim and fragmentary as it is, yet sounds the
utmost depths of reality : to know that detached details,
merely in order to be themselves, demand that they should
find themselves in a system of things : to know that this
system includes the harmony of logical rationality, and the
harmony of aesthetic achievement : to know that, while the
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 495
harmony of logic lies upon the universe as an iron necessity,
the aesthetic harmony stands before it as a living ideal mould-
ing the general flux in its broken progress towards finer,
subtler issues (p. 26).
We cannot deduce things mentally without a basis of
observation, neither can we generalise from observed facts
without a mental operation. Neither method without the
other is fruitful, though there have been times when one
method only was emphasised and the other largely
neglected. Whitehead for instance (page 55) rather
surprisingly speaks of
the unbridled rationalism of the thought of the later Middle
Ages. By this rationalism I mean the belief that the avenue
to truth was predominantly through a metaphysical analysis
of the nature of things. . . . The historical revolt was the
definite abandonment of this method in favour of the study of
the empirical facts of antecedents and consequences ... in
science it meant the appeal to experiment and the inductive
method' of reasoning.
But it is possible to exaggerate in this other direction,
and by over-emphasising the inert and the mechanical to
lose the larger view which embraces life and mind and
the immaterial processes of organic nature.
The scientific philosophy of this age [Harvey's or the
seventeenth century generally] was dominated by physics. . . .
These concepts are very unsuited to biology; and set for it
an insoluble problem of matter and life and organism, with
which biologists are now wrestling (p. 58).
The biological sciences are essentially sciences concerning
organisms. During the epoch m question, and indeed also at
the present moment, the prestige of the more perfect scientific
form belongs to the physical sciences. Accordingly, biology
apes the manners of physics. It is orthodox to hold, that
there is nothing in biology but what is physical mechanism
under somewhat complex circumstances (p. 144).
One unsolved problem of thought, so far as it derives
from this period, is to be formulated thus : Given configurations
of matter with locomotion in space as assigned by physical
laws, to account for living organisms (p. 58).
496 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
If this turns out impossible, then living organisms can
no more be accounted for or explained on purely mech-
anical principles than can the ether or the properties of
space. We may have to explain mechanism in terms of
organism—not vice versa. Animation seems likely to be
a fundamental thing, not reducible to something else. It
may be that animation when properly understood will
turn out to be of fundamental importance. Already it has
begun to invade the physico-chemical field. During the
latter half of the nineteenth century many processes
thought to be due to molecular changes in inert
matter were traced to the agency of life, i.e. of minute
creatures operating in accordance with biological laws.
Everyone now knows how the work of Pasteur revolu-
tionised the theory of fermentation, of putrefaction, and
disease generally, by showing that operations which had
been thought to be purely chemical or molecular were
really biological and organic. The activity of ultra-minute
organisms was found responsible for all these phenomena,
and the notion of organism as more generally representa-
tive or typical of the processes of nature began to attract
philosophic attention.
The whole of nature might be likened to an organism
of which we study the functions. On this view, the vital
thing is not the structure, but the function. An organism
guides and controls its own workings ; it operates on and
uses matter, and in that guidance the secret lies. The
working of the whole is analogous to the working of our
own bodies controlled by an animating principle which
may be called soul or spirit. But such terms seem alien
to present-day science. As says Whitehead, p. 94:
—
The world of science has always remained perfectly satisfied
with its peculiar abstractions. They work, and that is suffi-
cient for it.
But, as he goes on.
The point before us is that this scientific field of
thought is, in the twentieth century, too narrow for the
concrete facts which are before it for analysis. This is
true even in physics, and is more especially urgent in the
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 497
biological sciences. Thus, in order to understand the diffi-
culties of modern scientific thought and also its reactions on
the modern world, we should have in our minds some con-
ception of a wider field of abstraction, a more concrete analysis,
which shall stand nearer to the complete concreteness of our
intuitive experience. Such an analysis should find in itself a
niche for the concepts of matter and spirit, as abstractions in
terms of which much of our physical experience can be inter-
preted.
Sketch of the spiritistic hypothesis.
Very well, then, the spiritistic hypothesis in its simplest
and crudest form is that we are spirits here and now,
operating on material bodies, being, so to speak, incarnate
in matter for a time, but that our real existence does
not depend on association with matter, although the
index and demonstration of our activity does. We
demonstrate ourselves to our fellows only by means of
the material organisms that we have unconsciously con-
structed and utilised for the purpose; hence if the organ-
ism is damaged our manifestation becomes imperfect, and
if the damage is serious we may have to quit the organism
and remain normally dissociated from matter. Our
activities, on this theory, are supposed to go on as before,
but now presumably in space ; and only when we manage
to re-establish some temporary connexion with matter are
we able to make any sign, or supply any demonstration,
of our continued activity. This is the spiritistic hypo-
thesis, called into existence to account for a large number
of otherwise inexplicable facts of observation and experi-
ment, i.e. of concrete experience.
Without such demonstration and observation the truth
might not have been known ; and such demonstration
might have been impossible. For even if some such view
of our essentially spiritual nature be granted,—as at any
rate plausibly analogous to the other examples of de-
materialised activity,—the truth might have been, what
many religious people seem to think it is, that once we
have lost connexion with matter, that loss was irrecover-
able. People holding this view seem to think either that
498 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
the dead are asleep, or that they are transported or
transmuted into a totally different kind of existence, far
beyond mortal ken, from which they can make no sign
to those still in the flesh. They assume that departed
spirits have lost interest in those left behind, and are
wholly absorbed in higher things.
I say the truth might have been that once the connexion
with matter was terminated, it was terminated for good
and all ; that the consequences of terrestrial action alone
survived ; and that just as the dead were no longer access-
ible, so neither could they be assisted by our thoughts or
our affection, nor could they have any guiding or helpful
influence on those left behind. So completely do some
good peoj)le think of the departed as in a state of passive
rest, that they might as well be in the grave. There are,
indeed, some who think that any kind of revival and
reunion will only be possible when in some extraordinary
way those mortal bodies are resuscitated. " On the
resurrection morning soul and body meet again." Those
physical instruments seem to them so important that the
particles are supposed to be stored until they can be
again utilised in some future embodied existence, a mil-
lennium, perhaps a million years, ahead. This old, almost
superseded, but traditional belief in the resuscitation of
the discarded mechanism only serves to show how deep-
rooted is the tendency to confuse the indicator with the
phenomenon itself, and to imagine that apart from matter
existence is impossible. Whether the physical analogies
now adduced are of any use to people cajoable of such
beliefs is doubtful ;
they know too little about space to
be imjiressed ; the popular idea of empty space is sheer
emptiness and nothing else.
Yet we have learnt that matter is acted on wholly by
the influences which reach it from space. Inert matter
would never show any sign of activity, nor could it change
its state of motion if left to itself. The changes that we
observe are wholly due to the action of space upon it.
I want to extend this idea, derived from gravitation,
cohesion, electricity, magnetism and light, and include the
less known and yet familiar activity called animation.
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 499
That matter can be animated we can most of us admit,
though we know not how it is animated, or what the
process of animation is : that space may be animated, too,
must be regarded as a new idea. But it is not unreason-
able ; for just consider :
—Long ago it would have seemed
absurd to say that space had any physical properties, that
light was a function of space, that electric, magnetic and
gravitational fields were demonstrations through matter of
something going on in space, that the very cohesion
between the particles of a solid is due to some entity in
space. But to physicists these various properties of space
are becoming commonplace ; and for myself I venture to
extend the conception to animation also. I do not
venture to define spirit, save as the animating principle
on a higher grade. On a lower grade it might be
called sold or mind ; and on a still lower grade merely
life, which to me seems the rudiment of mind. But
whether we are able to define it or not,, we all Imow in
some rough sense what we mean by the term. It is the
basis of Descartes' philosophy " cogito ergo sum." What-
ever else he knew or did not know, he knew that he
could think. And it is that thuaking, idealising, aspiring,
hoping, loving part of ourselves which I wish to suggest
by the name of spirit.
My doctrine at present is that this transcendental,
immaterial entity needs and always will need somethmg
physical—physical, not necessarily material—for its mani-
festation, that it never is really without a " body," even
though it be discarnate. The mechanism of flesh which was
utilised here was indeed temporary, but that was
never its primary mechanism. The primary physical
mechanism associated with spirit is not gross matter, spirit
can only interact with matter under difficulties for a
time ; its real permanent existence is in the freedom of
space, with an etherial mechanism, whose properties do not
ajipeal to the senses, and therefore are at present beyond
our ken. Our only mode of investigation at present is
limited to the occasions when spirit may for a time re-
establish communication with matter, in defiance of the
popular prejudice that such re-establishment is impossible.
500 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
I said that truth might have lain in that direction,
—
the direction of impossibility of communication,—but in
my opinion our experience shows that it does not. For
those who have studied obscure phenomena know that under
certain conditions utilisation of a borrowed existing organism,
or even apparently the reconstruction of a temporary
material body, is possible, and that through this singular
use of a discarded method of manifestation, demonstration
of continued existence has become real. Communication
is not entirely cut off, the dej^arted do not soar entirely
out of our ken. By special effort and under special con-
ditions connexion with matter can be re-established, and
thus effects are produced which do appeal even to our bodily
sense organs. One would not have expected that : but
we must be guided by the facts. That the facts point in
that direction is obvious. Whether they conclusively prove
that deduction,—in the sense that they can be explained
in no other way,—is what remains for us to enquire into
and make sure of. If other hypotheses are successful,
then by all means let them be tried. Biit to be success-
ful they must meet all the facts ; and to my mind every
other hypothesis sooner or later breaks down.
Basing my conclusions on experience, I am absolutely
convinced not only of survival but of demonstrated sur-
vival, demonstrated by occasional interaction with matter
in such a way as to produce physical results. These
effects may be accomplished through the loan of other
organisms, submitted to the temporary control of an alien
intelligence ; that is the commonest way. Communion
may be and apparently is achieved in more directly mental
telepathic fashion also. There are doubtless limits to the
possibility of interaction with matter after our familiar
organism is left behind; but those limits are what we
have to ascertain : we cannot lay them down a priori.
It may be that naive experience will lead us nearer to
the truth than the most recondite speculations of philo-
sophy. The truth may not be so complicated as some
would have us think. Complications are probably due to
imperfect knowledge. A simple hypothesis may be quite
near the truth, even if we cannot formulate it completely.
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 501
We cannot formulate our own activities completely, yet it
is common enough to adduce the activities of an incarnate
spirit : for instance, it is considered quite simple to say
that some person has brought a message, or that some
other person has removed an object, or that yet another
has obej^ed a request, and done us a service, and given us
a helping hand. These occurrences are familiar enough,
though how they are accomplished we should find it hard
to express in detail. Philosophers puzzle over the simplest
actions. The utilisation of vibrations of the air for com-
municating ideas is not really a simple process ; it ought
to be surprising, instead of commonplace. In our daily
life we trust to naive experience, and we are not misled.
We often do not understand facts, we just grow accus-
tomed to them. Understanding comes later ; and not to
all. If the facts indicate communication and continued
mental activity, then let us not be afraid of accepting
them. If we had waited to deal with electrical phenomena
until we understood the nature of an electric field, we
should be waiting still. If Newton had declined to con-
sider gravitational astronomy till he understood the nature
of a gravitational field, we should still be in the Dark
Ages of science. We have not to wait, before planning
things, until we understand the interaction of mind and
body.
The spiritistic hypothesis, pressed to the full, probably
involves far more than we can in our highest flights
imagine. It leads us into the region of aesthetics and
genius and inspiration and theology. But our ordinary
daily life is conducted on lower levels, and for them the
simple primitive ideas suffice. Struggling and bereaved
humanity seeks to learn something of the fate of its
loved ones, seeks to be assured that affection continues,
that they are not far removed from us, and that reunion
will not be postponed to some absurdly distant date. My
hypothesis is that they are all round about us, in what
we call the ether of space rather than in matter; that inter-
communion is still possible ; and that simple souls may
derive comfort from their intuitive perceptions and naive
exjieriences, without being deterred by the difficulties which
502 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
successful concentration on material mechanism for the last
two or three centuries seems to raise in their path. After
all, it is now found that that material mechanism itself con-
tains more mystery than had been conjectured, and that
the full explanation even of it, if ever such explanation is
forthcoming, will lead, and already is beginning to lead,
towards an idealistic view of existence, not at all dis-
similar from the animistic or spiritistic view of the real
and permanent universe here and now.
In brief, we are immortal spirits in temporary associa-
tion with matter. Probably it is through this bodily re-
striction and isolation that we become individualised and
acquire a permanent personality, which hereafter is able to
adapt itself to new surroundings, in accordance with the
well-studied biological adaj)tability of the rest of animate
existence.
Conditions of future existence.
Why do people decline to face continued existence of
the same general kind as that which corresponds with
our experience now ? The world as we see it is largely
our own interpretation. To a different grade of being the
same things might have a totally different aspect. Our
apprehension depends on the way we interpret sense
indications ; and if our interpretative faculty continues, we
shall be likely to interpret other surroundings in much the
same way. The interpretation and even the kind of per-
ception of nature depend a great deal on ourselves ; and
an interpretative faculty is likely to continue. But hitherto
science has declined to contemplate an immaterial
existence, and only a few are willing to suppose that it
may be hiU of concrete reality in which we can feel at
home.
This disinclination to face possibilities of a concrete kind
in another order of existence may be partly due to
deference to the science of the seventeenth, eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries, which seldom contemplated concrete
and commonplace surroundings, and mainly dealt with
abstractions. It was the poets who faced concrete exist-
ence. Literature as a whole is full of it, for it concerns
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 503
itself with natural objects in their full display of colour
and vivacity, as well as with the caprices and behaviour
and responsible or irresponsible actions of human beings
in general. Whereas science busies itself with the abstract,
and mainly prides itself on metrical abstractions of a non-
human character. Even the classifications and generalisa-
tions of science are abstract. But life does not consist of
abstractions and generalisations. Life consists of full-
bodied reality and concrete instances. It finds room both
for the dignified and the undignified, the frivolous as well
as the serious ;
thimble-rigging and sweepstakes on the
Derby find a place in it. It is not high and dry at all.
Humanity can be whimsical and seek odd experiences, and
can disport itself, as in novels, in the most unscientific
manner. As scientific men we can ignore these eccen-
tricities, but we cannot eliminate them from nature. The
world would be poorer and more prosaic without them.
Perhaps the next world is not the remotely dignified,
continuously religious place we have been inclined to
think. All the gloom and blackness associated with it
—aye and the blazing brightness—may be inappropriate.
Death is solemn undoubtedly ; but so is birth. Entry into
a new state of things cannot but be an important adven-
ture. The world of matter on which we enter at birth
is wonderful enough, but it has its moments of frivolity ;
and I see no reason to suppose that any existence in which
we share shall seem to us entirely difi^erent in that respect.
Content of Messages.
On the hjqjothesis that we can ever enter into communi-
cation with those in that order of existence, we ought to
learn from them something of what it is like. I consider
that we have learnt something, not very much, but suffi-
cient to carry on with. I do not expect to be much
surprised when I get there. So far as it goes, the testi-
mony is in favour of a still continuing full-bodied existence,
not indeed of matter, but of something else, which though
it does not appeal to our present senses, is otherwise
equally real, equally substantial ; freer and less hampered
it seems to be, but not revolutionarily different. We
504 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
appear to remain ourselves, and the conditions around us
are of somewhat the same order. That at any rate is
the testimony, for what it may be worth. And it seems
to me fairly reasonable that it should be so. Whatever
it may be that has produced this world, has produced
that also ;
and the mere fact that it is of a kind which
does not appeal to our present animal senses is really no
argument for its completely different essential character.
In so far as we remain ourselves, we might expect other
things to remain themselves too, or at least to be capable
of a somewhat similar interpretation in the light of what-
ever faculties we then possess.
So fully are we dependent on mental interpretation for
our detailed apprehension of existence that some have not
hesitated to hold that the beauties of nature are put into
it by ourselves, that all its secondary qualities are con-
structions of the mind. Whitehead expresses, and seeks to
expose, this view on p. 77 :
The mind in apprehending [secondary quahties] also experi-
ences sensations which, properly speaking, are qualities of the
mind alone. . . . Nature gets credit which should in truth be
reserved for ourselves : the rose for its scent : the nightingale
for his song : and the sun for his radiance. The poets are
entirely mistaken. They should address their lyrics to them-
selves, and should turn them into odes of self-congratulation
on the excellency of the human mind. Nature is a dull
affair, soundless, scentless, colourless ;
merely the hurrying of
material, endlessly, meaninglessly. However you disguise it,
this is the practical outcome of the characteristic scientific
philosophy which closed the seventeenth centmy. ... It has
held its own as the guiding princij^le of scientific studies ever
since. It is still reigning. ... it is without a rival. And yet
—it is quite unbelievable. This conception of the universe is
surely framed in terms of high abstractions, and the paradox
only arises because we have mistaken our abstractions for
concrete realities.
So says Prof. Whitehead, who complains of modern
philosophy thus :
—
The enormous success of the scientific abstractions yiekling
on tlie one hand matter with its simple location in space and
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 505
time, and on the other hand ynind, perceiving, suffering,
reasoning, but not interfering, has foisted on to philosophy
the task of accepting them as the most concrete rendering of
fact. Thereby modern philosophy has been ruined. It has
oscillated in a complex manner between three extremes. There
are the dualists, who accept matter and mind as on equal
basis, and the two varieties of monists, those who put mind
inside matter, and those who put matter inside mind. All
this inherent confusion is due to the ascription of misplaced
concreteness to the scientific scheme of the seventeenth century
(p. 79). .
I suggest that a unification will never be accomplished
until the ether be taken into accord as a tertium quid.
Animated ether is like an organism, and the workings of
that organism are what we really observe. Admittedly
there are difficulties about the conception of an ether,
especially an animated ether, but we must be patient, and
give the idea time to soak in :
There is a danger in refusing to entertain an idea because
of its failure to explain one of the most obvious facts in the
subject matter in question. If you have had your attention
directed to the novelties in thought in your own lifetime, you will
have observed that almost all really new ideas have a certain
aspect of foolishness when they are first produced (p. 67).
Meanwhile we can bethink ourselves that matter itself
has an etheric aspect, and it may be that aspect which
hereafter will appeal to us. The difficulty of apprehend-
ing existence apart from matter is after all a natural
result of our limited experience now.
We cannot well imagine what an enlarged experience is
exactly like ; but if the testimony is in favour of some
similarity, there is no a priori reason for rejecting it. In
default of any other clue, "testimony" is the source of
information open to us. We may have to treat the
statements somewhat like travellers' tales about a new
country. Some of those tales have been incredible
at first, but have subsequently been proved true. The
whole point is whether any trustworthy information is
forthcoming. Meanwhile a working hypothesis is legiti-
506 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
mate. And that my hypothesis is not altogether repugnant
to or out of harmony with modern science may be illus-
trated by the following passages from Whitehead :
—
We now find a movement in science itself to reorganise its
concepts, driven thereto by its own intrinsic development. . . .
I hold that the ultimate appeal is to naive experience and
that is why I lay stress on the evidence of poetry. . . . Some
people express themselves as though bodies, brains, and nerves
were the only real things in an entirely imaginary world. . . .
We have to admit that the body is the organism whose
states regulate our cognisance of the world. The unity of
the perceptual field therefore must be a unity of bodily
experience. In being aware of the bodily experience, we must
thereby be aware of aspects of the whole spatio-temporal
world as mirrored within the bodily life. ... (p. 128).
One of our ideas is that of a field of physical activity
pervading all space even where there is an apparent vacuum
(p. 138).
So physical conceptions have greatly changed of late,
and the explanations in vogue during the nineteenth
century are felt by physicists themselves to be inadequate.
The time has come for a more open mind, receptive of
things strange and out of accord with ordinary common-
place experience.
The middle period of the nineteenth centmy was an orgy
of scientific triumph. Clear-sighted men, of the sort who are
so clearly wrong, now proclaimed that the secrets of the
physical universe were finally disclosed. If only you ignored
everything which refused to come into line, your powers of
explanation were unlimited (p. 142).
But now the very terms used by science are in process
of re-examination :
—
Energy is merely the name for the quantitative aspect of
a structure of happenings ; m short, it depends on the notion
of the functioning of an organism (p. 144).
The various physical laws which appear to apply to the
behaviour of atoms are not mutually consistent as at present
formulated. The appeal to mechanism on behalf of biology
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Sinritualistic Hypothesis 507
was in its origin an appeal to the well-attested self-consistent
physical concepts as expressmg the basis of all natural pheno-
mena. But at present there is no such system of concepts.
Science is taking on a new aspect which is neither purely
physical, nor purely biological. It is becoming the study of
organisms. ... A thoroughgoing evolutionary philosophy is in-
consistent with materialism. . . . The emergence of organisms
depends on a selective activity which is akin to purpose
(p. 145).
The new situation in the thought of to-day arises from
the fact that scientific theory is outruiming common sense. . . .
The eighteenth century opened with the quiet confidence that
at last nonsense had been got rid of. To-day we are at the
o]3posite pole of thought. Heaven knows what seeming non-
sense may not to-morrow be demonstrated truth (p. 161).
Modern physics is perilously approaching metaphysics,
just as psychology is perilously approaching metapsychics.
Scientific men of the last century immersed in the splendid
abstractions of mechanical science and the brilliant elabora-
tions of mathematical principles—like Professor Tait, for
instance—^were apt to be contemptuous of philosophy.
He spoke once of a line of argument which must be
abandoned because it " led straight to the den of the
metaphysician, strewn with the bones of former explorers,
and abhorred by every true man of science." I cannot
now find this [inexact] quotation. Tait's British Association
lecture on "Force" in 1876 was unfortunately expurgated
before publication, but I find in that lecture, as reported
in Nature, Vol. XIV., page 460, the following :
—
As he [a student] gradually gains knowledge by this—the
07ily—method [observation and experiment and mathematical
deductions from data so obtained] he wiU see more and more
clearly the absolute impotence of all so-called metaphysics, or
a priori reasoning, to help him to a single step in advance.
He goes on to emphasise the abundant fruitfuhiess of the
senses and reason working together ; either without the
other being barren ; and he illustrates this point by
several examples. With this we may well agree, without
necessarily acquiescing in his apparent dislike of intuition
2k2
508 Sir Oliver Lodge [PAET
and innate mental perception. Indeed he himself limits
his dictum to the acquisition of knowledge about the
purely physical world; and that he took no narrow view
of this is shown by the book for which he was partly
responsible, The Unseen Universe. In that book (it may be
said) was begun the heralding of some of those conceptions
about the ether which I am working at now.
Difficnlties in the verification of the spiritistic hypothesis.
Any hypothesis which aims at becoming a theory ought
to lead to results and if possible predictions of a verifiable
kind which can subsequently be tested. The difficulty
about the spiritistic hypothesis is that we can only test
its assertions by observations and experiments on matter.
Only in so far as discarnate humanity can still deal with
matter can it make any direct appeal to us. Now
humanity already possesses a certain power over matter
;
and it is solely by their effect upon matter that we are
normally aware of other human beings. Hence any
display of material happenings may have to be hypothetically
attributed to extended powers of known humanity.
It is true that our faculties are not limited to material
or sensory experiences : we have ideas and intuitions and
aspirations, and can frame conceptions of an immaterial
kind. Science for the most part ignores these vaguer
powers of humanity; but poetry and literature do not ;
these immaterial things loom large in poetry. They
constitute a considerable part of our real experience : and
in a survey of existence they should by no means be
ignored. To narrow ourselves down to the conceptions
of metrical science is an undue limitation of our faculties.
It would mean a shutting of our mental eyes to perhaps
the greater part of our experience. Immaterial concep-
tions are not abstractions, but are real concrete mental
experiences of which we are primarily aware. And it is
a continuation of these experiences that we mean by
survival.
But when we talk of verifying survival, we usually
mean verification by means of a continued action of
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 509
spiritual entities, even though now discarnate, on the
material world. It might have been that such action and
such verification were impossible, but there is a good deal
of testimony in favour of the possibility that under
certain conditions we can continue to act on matter.
The main difficulty in establishing it is what I hinted
above, namely that we are spirits here and now, and
already possess some of the faculties that presumably we
shall possess then ; so that it becomes difficult to dis-
criminate between the activity of discarnate personalities
and those of the incarnate. If an effect is produced on
matter, it may be due to some unexplored faculties which
we already possess without knowing it. Suppose, for
instance, that an object is moved, or some speech or
writings produced, in an unfamiliar way. How do we
know that we are not doing or producing that movement
unconsciously, or perhaps fraudulently, ourselves ? How can
we verify the assertion that it is accomplished by a dis-
carnate entity ? If ultra-mundane agencies could do things
impossible to us, that might constitute a proof of their
existence. But who is to say what is really impossible to
us ? And again, Why should their power of acting on
matter be superior to our own ?
The study of psychical research has led us to perceive
the existence of many unexpected faculties. Telepathy is
one of them. What is called clairvoyance is another.
The finding of hidden water, or what is called dowsing,
is a faculty for which there is much evidence. The
reading of sealed letters is a second branch of the same
faculty. The perception of events going on at a great
distance is a third. On one view, all these things are
accomplished by our own supposed extended faculties ;
unexplained and problematical in execution it is true, and
the fact that such things actually occur is one that has
to be established. But siippose they do occur. It is
the fashion to cite them as instance of cryptesthesia,
some unknown sensitiveness of the human organism. This
is a vague and not well-founded hypothesis, but it has
to be tried : for only when we find it impossible to
attribute such faculties to our own subconsciousness or
510 8ir Oliver Lodge [part
enlarged activity need we feel constrained to bring in other
intelligences and to regard these extended powers of re-
ceptivity as in some way due to the action of intelligent
entities not normally associated with matter.
Assertions are made, however, about certain phenomena
which can only with great difficulty be attributed to the
enlarged powers of living people. Things are moved
beyond muscular reach, without magnetism or other methods
of acting at a distance to which we have grown so accus-
tomed that we call them " ordinary." Temporarily
materialised organisms or parts of an organism are testified
to ;
produced not slowly as in the customary operations of
biology, but quickly, and liable also to rapid demateriali-
sation. The bringing of an object into a closed room is
said to be an occurrence that really happens ; as if matter
were not only porous in scientific doctrinal reahty, but
absurdly permeable to ordinary observation. Immunity
from fire, and many other physical phenomena, are taken
as indications that some intelligences of greater knowledge or
experience than our own are operating. In that respect
we seem to be like savages beginning to get into occasional
touch with a more experienced white race. So various
physical phenomena, as well as the materialisation and
direct voice and photographic evidence, are appealed to as
demonstrations of a power altogether supernormal, and
from the purely mechanistic or materialistic point of view
supernatural. These things, if they occur at all, do not
occur in the ordinary course of nature, the kind of nature
contemplated by the Royal Society. Their investigation
has only been carried on by Societies formed for that
purpose. Nevertheless they seem to form the actual experi-
ence of certain individuals. So on the principle that no
experience should be overlooked, the growing body of
testimony in their favour ought not to be ignored.
It may be hard to define the limitations of extended
human faculty ; the objection that we do not know the
extent of our own faculties is a valid objection. Mean-
while undoubtedly the dramatic semblance of these occur-
rences strongly suggests outside agencies; and it may be
that that suggestion is a true one. We would not have
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spiritualistic Hypothesis 511
anticipated that discarnate intelKgencies, even if they can
send messages, have the power of performing miracles ;
that is to say, of producing effects which so far as we
are concerned would be miracles ; but if they are able to
do these things, we should not ignore them as impossible,
but take pains to examine and verify them. The first need
is verification of the phenomena ; consideration of how they
are accomplished must follow in due time. At least they
would form an expansion of psychology ; and the expan-
sion to which they certainly seem to point is that the
psychical entity responsible for our daily and commonplace
actions is not limited to its association with any particular
temporary organism, but is capable of sporadic activity
even when that organism is discarded.
On the whole, however, the verification of this hypo-
thesis, or our willingness to regard it as the beginnings
of a theory, must depend largely on our philosophic view.
Attempts are already being made by mathematical physi-
cists at an enlarged view of existence. A concentration
on matter which served well enough the eighteenth and
much of the nineteenth centmies, is turning out insuffi-
cient. The abstractions of science clearly do not cover
the whole of concrete experience. And the revolt has
begun by diverting attention from matter to the properties
of space, or to the properties of whatever substantial entity
fills space.
A plea for a under conception of science.
The new philosophic position gradually being attained by
modern physicists is of a comj)lex order not easy to put
into words. It has a bearing on our conceptions of space
and time, two abstractions very different from matter, and
yet effectively very important. It is said that what we
experience directly and instantaneously is an "event," a
technical term much used by Einstein, Eddington, and
other mathematical physicists. Every real entity has what
is called a " world line." It is not a point in space, it is
a line in time ;
and an event is typified by the crossing
point of two world lines, the event being the interaction
of one entity with another. But as Professor Whitehead
512 Sir Oliver Lodge [PABT
urges, an event is not an isolated, self-contained and com-
plete thing, like the crossing of two lines. It is related to
and may be the outcome of the past, it is related to and
may have consequences in the future. It has a much
wider significance than a mere point has. An instan-
taneous existence has no particular meaning. Every event is
the outcome of the past, and has an influence on the
future ; it is a part of a process, a process of becoming.
In that respect the universe is like an organism, the
whole meaning of which is not given by its instantaneous
existence, but must involve memory and anticipation. It
is part of an evolution, and in its evolutionary significance
its importance lies. Moreover, an event is related to
other events in space as well as in time. It has con-
temporaries, and apart from them its full meaning is not
apparent. To quote from Whitehead (p. 102) :
—
Nature is a process of expansive development ... a structure
of evolving processes. The reality is the process. . . . The
realities of nature are the events in nature. Nature is not
a mere assemblage of parts or of ingredients. It is a whole.
The events are united both in space and time. Reality
attaches to the whole complex. Space-time is nothing else
than a system of pulling together of assemblages into unities.
. . . An event has contemporaries. . . . An event has a past.
. . . An event has a future. . . . These conclusions are essential
for any form of realism. For there is in the world for our
cognisance, memory of the past, immediacy of realisation, and
indication of things to come. . . .
He goes on to say that :
—
The strength of the theory of materialistic mechanism has
been the demand, that no arbitrary breaks be introduced into
nature, to eke out the collapse of an explanation.
Whitehead says that he accepts this principle, but that if
you start from the immediate facts of our psychological
experience, "as surely an empiricist should begin," you
are at once led to an organic conception of nature.
It is the defect of the eighteenth century scientific scheme
that it provides none of the elements which compose the
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of SpirituaUstic Hypothesis 513
immediate psychological experiences of manliind. It is in
literature that the concrete outlook of humanity receives its
expression. Yet the most deterministic man of science must
be aware of organisms in process of development. A scien-
tific realism, based on mechanism, is conjoined with an un-
wavering belief in the world of men and of the higher animals
as being composed of self-determining organisms. . . . For
instance, the enterprise produced by the individualistic energy
of the European peoples presupposes physical actions directed
to final causes. But the science which is employed in their
development is based on a philosophy which asserts that
physical causation is supreme, and which disjoins the physical
cause from the final end. It is not popular to dwell on the
absolute contradiction here involved (pp. 104 and 106).
When we come to ordinary literature Ave find, as we might
expect, that the scientific outlook is in general simply ignored.
So far as the mass of literature is concerned, science might
never have been heard of. Until recently nearly all writers
have been soaked in classical and renaissance literature. For
the most part, neither philosophy nor science interested them,
and their minds were trained to ignore it (p. 107).
But he goes on to say :
—
There are exceptions to this sweeping statement, especially
in Wordsworth and Shakespeare. Wordsworth in his whole
being expresses a conscious reaction against the mentality of
the eighteenth century. It was not so much intellectual
antagonism as a moral repulsion. He felt that something
had been left out, and that what had been left out comprised
everything that was most important. Tennyson is the mouth-
piece of the attempts of the nineteenth century to come to
terms with science. . . . The problem of mechanism appals
Iiim,
'
The stars, she whispers, blindly run.'
Thus
a dilemma is presented by a thorough-going mechanism. For
if volition affects the state of the body, then the molecules
in the body do not blindly run. If volition does not
affect the state of the body, the mind is still left in its
514 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
uncomfortable position. . . . Either the molecules blindly run
or they do not. If they do blindly run, the mental states
are irrelevant in discussing the bodily actions. . . . The tradi-
tional way of evading the difficulty—other than the simple
way of ignoring it—is to have recourse to some form of what
is now termed '
vitalism.' This doctrine is really a com-
promise. It allows a free run to mechanism throughout the
whole of inanimate natm-e, and holds that the mechanism is
partially mitigated within living bodies.
This tenet is to me tempting, provided instead of
" mitigated " we read " supplemented " ; but Whitehead
holds that a dualistic theory like that must be an un-
satisfactory compromise.
The gap between living and dead matter is too vague and
problematical to bear the weight of such an arbitrary assump-
tion (p. 111).
He holds that :
—
the whole concept of materialism only applies to very abstract
entities, the products of logical discernment. [Whereas] The
concrete enduring entities are organisms.
He means presumably to assert this in every case, ani-
mated or not. So that the plan of the ivhole influences
the character of every subordinate ingredient ; and this
view of the whole in every one of the parts he proceeds
to develop.
Now all this philosophy may seem, perhaps, disjointed
from our main theme. But some philosophy of the kind
is essential to it. There are two questions about mind.
First, Does mind act on matter at all ? And next. Can
mind supply for itself any experiences other than those
provided for it by the body ? If our philosophy enables
us to answer these questions in the affirmative, then we
can proceed. We are no longer limited to the action of
incarnate mind. Mental experiences other than those
given by our senses are permissible, and mental actions
on matter need not be limited to those we are accustomed
to. For getting accustomed to things does not explain
them ;
our own actions on matter are just as mysterious
Ill] The Asserted Difficulty of Spirittialistic Hypothesis 515
as any of those of which we have doubtful testimony.
Are we spirits here and now, utilising and acting on
matter, or are we mere mechanism simulating the functions
of mind. If the latter is true, as some scientific men
hold or try to hold, then the greater part of real experi-
ence has to be ignored. Literature and poetry become
nonsensical. But if we appeal against the abstractions of
science to concrete reality as perceived by us, then the
former alternative is inevitable, and a great step towards
survival is already taken.
We are apt to forget how strange and paradoxical is
the view of nature which orthodox science imposes on
our thoughts.
Wordsworth, to the height of genius, expresses the concrete
facts of our apprehension, facts which are distorted in the
scientific analysis. Is it not possible that the standardised
concepts of science are only valid within narrow limitations,
perhaps too narrow for science itself ? . . . Berkeley, Words-
worth, Shelley are representative of the intuitive refusal
seriously to accept the abstract materialism of science. . . .
Philosophy is the critic of abstractions. ... It confronts the
sciences with concrete fact . . .
(pp. 118, 122).
Cmition.
In thus quoting Professor Whitehead, let it not be sup-
posed that he would agree with my contentions, or that
he is in any way responsible for the use to which I have
put his philosophy. He is a mathematical physicist of
great knowledge and high eminence ; he is able to take a
comprehensive survey of existence and of the historical
progress of humanity throughout many centuries. He has
been led to his philosophy by a study of existence as a
whole, and has been able to combine the most abstract
science with the concrete experiences set forth in literature.
I find in this philosophy some clue, some indication, some
correspondence with the path which I myself pursue. I
want to push some of his conclusions further than he
himself has yet done. I have no knowledge that he has
ever studied the subject which interests psychical investi-
516 Sir Oliver Lodge [part 111
gators, and it may be that he would resent some of the
deductions I draw from his material. I hope not ; but
I want to emphasise his irresponsibility for any claims or
contentions of my own. I regard it as instructive that
one whose studies must have lain at least chiefly in
mathematical physics should have been led in so idealistic
a direction, and to a philosophy which, though expressed
in difficult and technical terms, may be utilised by those
who like myself have gone beyond the limitations of
materialistic mechanism in other ways and mainly for
other reasons.
My doctrine involves the primary reality of mind in
association with whatever physical mechanism it may find
available. Matter constitutes only one of those mechan-
isms, and indeed only constitutes it in secondary fashion
;
and by a study limited to matter alone we shall never
get the full reality of existence. I hold that all our
actions on matter here and now are conducted through
empty space, or rather through the entity which fills
space ; and that, if our activity continues, it must be con-
tinued in the same sort of way and through the same sort
of etheric mechanism that we already unconsciously utilise
now.
That in brief terms is the spiritistic hypothesis which
I proclaim and work on. I cannot but rejoice when a
philosophic physicist, full of the higher scientific knowledge
of our time, has been led in anything like the same
direction, without any study of those peculiar and rather
inexplicable facts on which presumably some part of my
own philosophy has been founded.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARGB.
PaoB'ESiOR Henry Sidqwiok, - 1882-84.
I'lioFEssoR Balfour stewabt,
I'Ml.S., 1885-87.
Professor Henry Sidowick, - 1888-92
The Earl of Balfour, K.G.
O.M., F.E..S., . - . . 1893.
Professor William James, - - 1894-95.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.Il.S., 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers,- - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., - 1901-03.
Sir William Babrett, F.R.S., - 1904.
Professor Charles Riohet, - - 1905.
TnR Right Hon. G. W. Balfour,- 1900-07.
Mrs. Henry Sidowick, - - - 1908-09.
H. Arthur Smith, - - • 1910.
Andrew Lang, 1911,
Ri. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., .... 1012.
Professor Henri Bergson, - - 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, - - 1914.
Professor Gilbert Murray,
LL.D., Litt.D.. - - - 1915-10.
L. P. Jacks. LL.D., D.D., - -1917-18.
LORD Rayleiqh, O.M., F.R.S., - 1919.
Professor W.McDouGALL, F.K.S., 1920-21.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.. - - - 1922.
Camille Flamm.arion, - - - 1923.
j. g. piddington, - - - - 1924-25
Professor Hans Dribsch, - - 1926-27'
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., - 1928
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1929.
PRESIDENT.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bavt.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
O.M.
The Earl of Balfour, K.G
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfouii.
Gkorge B. Dorr.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc,
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Krnkst N. Bennett, M.P.
W. R. BousFiELD, K.C., F.R.S.
William Brown, M.D., D.Sc.
Professor E. R. Dodds.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
J. Arthur Hill.
Professor Julian S. Huxley.
Miss Ina Jephson.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
G. W. Lambert.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
The Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton,
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. Piddington.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney 0. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
COUNCIL.
Professor W. McDougall, F.R.S.
T. W. MlTCHISLL, M.D.
J. G. Piddington.
W. H. Salter.
Mrs. W. H. Salter.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt.,
LL.D.
W. Whately Smith.
S. G. SOAL.
V. J. WOOLLEY, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
G.B.E.
BON. TREASURER.
W. H. Salter, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
RON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
W. H. Salter, The Crown House, Newport, Esse.x;.
HON. RESEARCH OFFICER.
V. J. WooLLEY, M.D., St. Thomas's Hospital, London, S.E. 1.
BON. EDITOR.
Mrs. W. H. Salter, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
LIBRARIAN AND EDITOR.
TnEODor.E Be^terman, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
SECRETARY.
Miss I. Newton, 31 Tavistock Square, Lonilon, W.C. 1.
AGENTS FOR AMERICA.
The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
2l
518 Memhers and Associates. [part
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
July 1929.
President—Sir Lawhence J. Jones, Bart.
Vice- Presidents.
The Eight Hon. the Earl of Balfour, K.G., O.M., F.R.S., Whit-
tingehame, Haddington.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
Sir Lawi'ence J. Jones, Bart. , 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W .7
.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, Nr. Salisbury.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
J. G. Piddington, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Sydney C. Scott, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London,
W. 2,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Honorary Members.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de
Physique Generale, rue Cuvier 12, Paris.
Miss Alice Johnson, 111 Grantchester Meadows, Cambridge.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 11 Boulevard Bischoffsheim,
Brussels.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S. ,
Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Ill] Members and Associates. 519
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor Henri Bergson, rue Vital 32, Paris.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W.
Professor Dr. Freud, Berggasse 19, Vienna.
Professor Pierre Janet, rue de Varenne 54, Paris VII°.
Dr. C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E. Zurich, Switzerland.
Count Carl von Klinckowstroem, Agnesstrasse 44/°, Munich.
Maurice Maeterlinck, Villa des Abeilles, Nice.
Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Nauklerstrasse 23, Tubingen.
Dr. Eugene Osty, Avenue Niel 89, Paris.
Dr. Morton Prince, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Walter F. Prince, 346 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Charles Richet, rue de I'Universite 15, Paris.
Dr. U. Tartaruga, Gentzgasse 132, Wien XVIII, Austria.
Dr. Rudolf Tischner, Ditlindenstrasse 18, Munich.
Carl Vett.
HoNORAHY Associates.
Bozzano, E., Via Genova N. 47, ViUa Rosa, Savona, Italy.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex.
Eeden, Frederik van, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 63 Newbridge Road, Bath.
Gow, David, 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Grul)b, Edward, 9 SoUershott West, Letchworth, Herts.
Hill, J. Arthur, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., 32 Beverly Road, Berkeley, Cal.,
U.S.A.
Sage, M., rue de Coulmiers 33, Paris XIV^.
Stawell, Miss F. Melian, 39 Arundel Gardens, Ladbroke Grove,
London, W. 11.
520 Members and Associates. [PAET
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is 'prefixed to the names of Members.
Abernethy, Mrs., 4 Branksome Gate, Branksome Park, Bourne-
mouth.
Acland-Hood, Lady Helena, 41 Cadogan Street, London, S.W. 3.
Adamson, T., Dominion Buildings, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
Agelasto, Michael A., 4-C, Hague Apt., 606 Fairfax Avenue,
Norfolk, Va., U.S.A.
Aglen, Sir Francis.
*Albemarle, Countess of, Quidenham, Norwich.
Albree, John, Swanipscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., 24 Brunswick Road, Withington, Man-
chester.
Allan, Miss J., Invergloy House, Invergloy, Inverness-shire.
Allen, Professor H. J., c/o The National Bank of India, 26 Bishops-
gate, London, E.G. 2.
*AIli.son, ]VIrs. E. W., The Beverley, 125 East 50th Street, New
York City, U.S.A.
*Alvarez, Dr. Juan, 25 de Diciembre, 804, Rosario, Argentina.
*Anderson, Lady, Ballydavid, Waterford, Ireland.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Mrs. Henry C, 20 Hermitage Drive, Edmburgh.
Andrews, Dr. Marion B., 73 Shrubbery Avenue, Worcester.
Anstey, Lieut. -Colonel E. C, R.A., Naval and Military Club, 94
Piccadilly, London, W.l.
*Archer-Hind, Mrs., Little Newnham, Cambridge.
*Armitage, Miss D. M., Pennyfathers, Harmer Green, Welwyn,
Herts.
Armstrong, Charles W., Mensajeros, CaUe Fontenella, 10 y Estruch
38, Barcelona, Spain.
Arnold, Mrs. A. E., Courtlands, Monahan Avenue, Purley, Surrey.
^Arnold, Mrs. Henry, The Garden Club, 9 Chesterfield Gardens,
London, W. 1.
Ashcroft, Mrs., Ladies' Athenaeum Club, 32 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
*Ashcroft, Rev. Harold, Smallwood Manor, Uttoxeter, Stafford.
*Ashton, F., 188 Wanstead Park Road, Ilford, Essex.
*Aspland, George D., 10 Elsworthy Road, London, N.W. 3.
Ill] Meinbers and Associates. 521
*Assheton-Smith, Lady, 30 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
*Auden, Harold A., The Research Institute, Great Burgh, Epsom,
Surrey.
Austen, H. W. C., M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, Gate House, Northwood, Middlesex.
*Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 7 Sillwood Place. Brighton.
Bailiie, W. S., Redroof, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
*Baker, Mrs. Harold, 124 Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Baker, Miss Mabel, P.O., All Saints, Idutywa, CP., S. Africa.
*Baldwin, Mrs., 1 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
*Balfour, Miss, Whittingehame, Haddington.
*Balfour, Right Hon. the Earl of, K.G., O.M., F.R.S., Whittinge-
hame, Haddington.
*Balfour, Mrs. E. W. S., Balbirnie, Markinch, Fife, Scotland.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
*Balfour, Mrs. R. A. L., Redcliff, Whittingehame, Haddington.
Banner, IVIrs.
*Barber, Stanley S., Greengates, Little Marlow, Bucks.
^Barclay, Edwyn, Down Mere, Poynings, Sussex.
*Barclay, Mrs. Edwjm, Down Mere, Poynings, Sussex.
Barkley, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., Empress Club, 35 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Barlow, Fred., 105 Springfield Road, Moseley, Birmingham.
*Barlow, James Arthur, The Old Court House, The Green, Rich-
mond, Surrey.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Barrow, J. R., Ramna, Dacca, Bengal, India.
*Bartlett, A. F., 1030 Euclid Avenue, St. Petersburg, Florida, U.S.A.
*Bartlett, Captain J. A., 16 Park Lane, London, W.l.
Baruch, E., 564 I. W. Hellman Building, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S., c/o Lloyds Bank, 6 Pall MaU, London, S.W. 1.
*Battersea, The Lady, The Pleasaunce, Overstrand, Cromer,
Norfolk.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1724 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Bayfield, L. Arthur.
*Beadon, Mrs., 11 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton.
*Behrens, Major Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
522 Members and Associates. [part
Behrens, Noel Edward. '
*Benedict, Professor H. Y., 216 West 27th Street, Austin, Texas,
U.S.A.
Bennett, Colin N., 21 Morrab Place, Penzance, Cornwall.
*Bennett, E. N., M.P., 12 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., 32 Wood Lane, Highgate, London, N. 6.
*Benson, E. P., 25 Brompton Square, London, S.W. 3.
*Bentley, W. P., 4214 Swiss Avenue, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
Berrington, Rev. Leslie G., Churchover Rectory, Rugby.
*Berry, Lady Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London, W.l.
*Best, C. S., 4 Queen Square, Leeds.
*Besterman, Theodore, 63 Boundary Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Besterman, Mrs. Theodore, 63 Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
'Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
Bird, Mrs. Francis William, East Walpole, Mass., U.S.A.
Blacklock, Miss C, Lewie, Ditchling, Hassocks, Sussex.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
*Blemierhassett, ]Mrs. Richard, 52 Hans Place, London, S.W.I.
BKgh, Stanley M., 19 ClareviUe Grove, S. Kensington, London,
S.W. 7.
*Bois, H. G., Billesley Manor, Alcester, Warwickshire.
*Bolton, Edward J., Rossett HaU, Nr. Wrexham.
*Bond, F. Bligh, Rock Cove, Pride's Crossing, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Bond, Mrs. W. C, Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
*Bonus, A. R., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 38 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
*Bousfield, W. R., K.C., F.R.S., St. Swithins, Northwood, Middx.
Bouwcns, B. G., Old Manor House, Littleton, Shepperton, Middlesex.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, Hotel Richmond, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, EarUiam House, Norwich.
*Bowyer, Lieut-Colonel W. G., Weston Manor, Olney, Bucks.
Boxer, Miss Cecile F., Firwood, Alum Chrne, West Bournemouth.
Boxer, Major H. C, Firwood, Alum Chine, West Bournemouth.
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., Langham House, WaUington.
*Bracht, Federico, Cangallo 466, Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic.
Ill] Members and Associates. 523
*Brackeiibury, A. G., 162 Westbourne Terrace, London, W.2.
*Brackenbiuy, JMrs., 162 Westboiurne Terrace, London, W. 2.
Bradley, IVIiss A. A., Bradley Hill, Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
*Bradley, H. Dennis, Dorincourt, I<angston Vale, London, S.W. 15.
*Braithwaite, Lieut. -General Sir Walter P., K.C.B., 35 Sloane Gar-
dens, London, S.W. 1.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 36 Fenchurch Street, London, E.C.3.
Bray, F. E., Netley Park, Gomshall, Guildford, Surrey.
*Breaker, Geo. H., 301 Esperson Building, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
*Brinton, R. S., Croft House, liidderminster.
Bristowe, The Hon. L. S., Mahogany Hall, Chipperfield, Herts.
*Broad, C. D., Litt.D., Trinity CoUege, Cambridge.
*Broch, Dr. Leon, 76 Cuba Street, Habana, Cuba.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
*Brooke, Mrs. Hastings, 28 CoUingham Place, London, S.W. 5.
Brooks, R. Birkett, R.N., Glendale, 49 Surrey Road, Bournemouth.
Brown, Captain A. D. Burnett, M.C., Verdley, Burke's Road,
Beaconsfield, Bucks.
Brown, Miss A. M., Trecarrel, 1 Ryleston Grove, Parry's Lane,
Bristol.
*Bro-RTi, B. G., 16 Brookside, Cambridge.
*Brown, B. H. Inness, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Brown, Charles, M.B., Tmto Banls, Kirkcaldy.
Brown, Mrs. Frank Clifton, Stanford Place, Faringdon, Berks.
*Brown, Guy B., Moorlands, Neva Road, Weston-Super-Mare.
*Brown, Wm., M.A., M.D., D.Sc, M.R.C.P., 88 Harley Street,
London, W. 1.
Brown, W. Forster, The Grove House, Caversham, Readmg, Berks.
Browne, O. H., Hyderabad, Deccan, India.
*Bubb, Henry, J.P., Ullenwood, near Cheltenham.
*Buist, Mrs., 37 St. James' Place, London, S.W.I.
*Bulford, Staveley, 20 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
BuUer, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Wmnipeg,
Canada.
*Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Wirral, Cheshire.
*Bulteel, Mrs. Lionel, 13 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
Burnett, Miss Ethel, Meuie House, Bahnedie, Aberdeen.
Burnham, Mrs., 11 Hampstead Square, London, N.W. 3.
524 Members and Associates. [part
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Burrard, Mrs. Charles, c/o Lloyds Bank, Knightsbridge Branch,
Brompton Eoad, London, S. W. L
*Burt, Mrs. William G., 1501 Asbury Avenue, Evanston, 111.,
U.S.A.
Burton, Mrs. Harry, 25 via dei Bardi, Florence, Italy.
*Bury, Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, Evendale, Falmouth, Cornwall.
*Butt, Lady, c/o Midland Bank, Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., 9 Huskisson Street, Liverpool.
*Byng, E. S., Birdingbury Hall, Nr. Rugby.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Cau-d, Mrs. Henryson, 34 Woronzow Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W. 8.
Cairns, Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
Campbell, Mrs., Arduame, Lochgilphead.
Campbell, Colin E., 9 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W. 1.
Campbell, Mrs. E. Kenneth, Millfield, Wittersham, Kent.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., 75 Marine Parade, Brighton, Sussex.
*CampbeIl-Lang, Miss.
Candler, H. A. W., 43 Gondar Gardens, West Hampstead, London
N.W. 6.
Candler, Miss M. I., Shadipore, Aldeburgh, Suffolk.
*CanneU, Miss Constance C, 62 Pretoria Street, Hillbrow, Johan-
nesburg, S. Africa.
*Carden, W. A., M.R.C.S., BothaviUe, .O.F.S., S. Africa.
^Carpenter, Mrs., Withleigh, West Heath Road, London, N.W. 3.
Carrington, Hereward, Ph.D., 504 West 111th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
*Carruthers, Miss Helen, 1 Campden Houses, Peel Street, London
W. 8.
*Carruthers, K. St. C, c/o National Provincial Bank, Warwick.
Carter, Mrs. H. A., Mena House, St. Erth, Hayle, Cornwall.
*Carthew, Lieut. -Colonel T., D.S.O., 2 Mitre Court Buildings,
Temple, London, E.C.4.
Case, Miss A. J., 35 Elm Bank Mansions, Barnes, London,
S.W. 13.
*Cave, Charles J. P., Stoner Hill, Petersfield, Hants.
Ill] Members and Associates. 525
*Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
*Champion de Cresi:)igny, Mrs. Philip, Artillery Mansions, West-
minster, London, S.W.I.
*Chance, Lady, Legh Manor, Cuckfield, Sussex.
*Chaj)man, C. F., Downs House, Dukes Drive, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Chapman, E. G., Belsize, 8 Guessens Road, Welwyn Garden City,
Herts.
Chattock, Arthur P., D.Sc., 5 Windsor Terrace, Clifton, Bristol.
*Cheatham, Rev. Thaddeus A., Pinehurst, North Carolina, U.S.A.
*Cheers-Chaloner, G., 18, The Vale, Golders Green, London, N.W. IL
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H., Orchard Cottage, Kinlet, Bewdley.
Chitty, Hubert, M.S., M.B., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton, Bristol.
Chubb, The Hon. JVIrs. Archibald, Lethbridge, The Drive, Wim-
bledon, London, S.W. 19.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
*Clark, Captain C. C, Kilrie, North Berwick, N.B.
Clark, Rev. F. H. H., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, The Ship Hotel, Crediton, Devon.
Clarkson, ]\'Irs. St. John, 27 Ovington Street, London, S.W. 3.
Clay, The Hon. Mrs., 11 Tite Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 206 The Shawmut, 2200 Nineteenth Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Clwyd, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., Leenane, Co. Galway, Ireland.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., WTiite Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Collms, Miss M.
Compton, Hemy.
* Constable, F. C, GrenviUe, Lansdown, Bath.
Conway, Lady, 47 Romney Street, London, S.W. 1.
=^Conybeare, Mrs. F. C, United Berkeley Club, 247 Knightsbridge,
London, S.W.I.
*Cook, A. G. H., The Villa, Washmgton, Co. Durham.
Cooper, Rev. Canon F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Mrs. P. H., 293 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
*Coplestone-Boughey, Mrs., Richmond Hill, Chester.
Cornford, Rev. Bruce, 43 Havelock Road, Portsmouth.
Cornish, J. Easton, The Water Co., Alexandria, Egypt.
*Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, Campden Hill, London, W. 8.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Minister of State, 59 Koning-
innegracht, The Hague.
526 Members and Associates. [part
*Costopulo, Panos J., cjo Credit Commercial Hellenique, Calamata,
Greece.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Cox, Lady, 25 Carlyle Square, London, S.W. 3.
Coxe, Henry R. H., cjo Grindlay & Co, 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W. 1.
*Crandon, L. R. G., M.D., 366 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
*Craufurd, Commander Quentin C. A., R.N., North View, Lydd, Kent.
*Creasy, Mrs. L., 15 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W. 10.
*Creasy, Mrs., Glen Eyre, Bassett, Hants.
*Cromer, Katharine, Countess of, 29 Marlborough Place, London,
N.W. 8.
Crook, A. H., 156, The Peak, Hong Kong.
*Crosfield, Miss M. C, Greensand, 78 Doods Road, Reigate, Surrey.
Crouch, H. N., Castelnau, 37 Lancaster Road, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W., 19.
*Culme-Seymour, Lady, 9m Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W. 1.
*Currie, Lady, Upham House, Aldbourne, Wilts.
*Currie, Mrs., Ultima, Bulkington Avenue, Worthing, Sussex.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 53 Romney Street, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
*Davies, Benjamin, Ty Tringad, Penparke, Aberystwyth, Car-
diganshire.
*Davies, D. Berrmgton G., J.P., Parcygors, Llechryd, Cardiganshire.
*Davies, Powys, Raipur, Lidia.
*Davis, airs. J. R., 28 Norfollv Road, St. Jolm's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
*Davis, Mrs. Kennard.
Davis, Romney R., Old Grove House, The Grove, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Davison, Miss R., Branton, BoUin Hill, Wilmslow, Manchester.
Davys, Lieut.-Colonel G. I., O.B.E., I.M.S., c/o Messrs. Grindlay
& Co., Hornby Road, Bombay, India.
Day, Miss Mabel K., 15 Elgin Court, Elgin Avenue, London, W. 9.
Dearmer, Rev. Dr. Percy, 9 Embankment Gardens, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Ill] Members and Associates. 527
*De Brath, S., 13 High Park Gardens, Kew, Surrey.
Deichmann, Baroness.
De Jong, Dr. K. H. E., Beeklaar, 356, The Hague.
*De Koven, Mrs. Anna F., 1025 Park Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Deland, Mrs. Lorin F., Kennebunkport, Maine, U.S.A.
Delap, Alfred D., Priorsland, Carrickmines, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
*De Laumont, Comte M., 32 Avenue Malakoff, Paris, France.
*Denman, R. P. G., 43 Ovington Square, London, S.W. 3.
De Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid.
*Dewar, Lady, The Capite, West Grinstead, Sussex.
*Dewey, Rev. Sir Stanley D., Bart., Peak House, Sidmouth, Devon.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, Arlena Towers, Ramsey, N.J., U.S.A.
*de Zoysa Wickramasalne, G. A.
*Dick, Mrs. J. D., Westhaven, Castlehill Road, Knock, Belfast.
*Dick, Lieut. -Colonel Maxwell, M.B., B.S., LL.B., 24 Rivervicw
Gardens, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
Dickie, H. Elford, 16 Quai Duquay Troinin, Nantes Loire Inferi-
eure, France.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J.,Stolarska Skola, Travnik, Bosnia, Yugoslavia.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
*Dickson, B. W. A., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
*Dickson, Mrs. B. W. A., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
*Dingwall, E. J., 73 Corringham Road, Hampstead Garden Suburb,
London, N.W. 11.
*Dingwall, Mrs. E. J., 73 Corringham Road, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. 11.
*Dingwall, Miss E., 5 Trewartha Park, Weston-super-Mare.
*Diver, Mrs.
*Dixon, Edward T.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St. Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
*Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park
Terrace, Hillhead, Glasgow, W.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Burlington, New Jersey, U.S.A.
*Dodds, Professor E. R,, 12 George Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Doe, George M., Enfield, Great Torrington, N. Devon.
*Donald, Mrs., Allandale, Creek Road, East Molesey, Surrey.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Wliitehall Place, London,
S.W. 1.
Dowson, Mrs., Landhurst Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
528 Members and Associates. [part
*Doy]e, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex.
Drew, Ringrose C, Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Via Penang, Federated
Malay States.
Driesch, Professor Dr. Hans, ZoUnerstrasse 1, Leipzig.
*Duckworth, G. A. V., TraveUers' Club, Pall Mali, London, S.W. 1.
Duflf, The Lady Juliet, Coombe Court, Kingston Hill, Surrey.
*Duff, J. R. K., 100 Sunningfields, Hendon, London, N.W. 9.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunne, D. P., 137 Victoria Street, London, S.W. L
*Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
*Earle, Arthur B., Puddington, Nr. Birkenhead.
*Eckstein, Lady, 18 Park Lane, London, W.l.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., C.B., Beach Lawn, Waterloo, Nr.
Liverpool.
Edie, H. S. Ker, Longmead, Swaythling Lawn, Southampton.
*Elder, Frederick, 21 Essex Villas, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blackfriars Road, London, S.E. 1.
Elliot, Mrs. Gilbert, 10 Regent's Park Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W. 3.
*Engelbregt, P. A. L., Flatgebouw Zorgvliet, Gogelweg 1 , The Hague,
Holland.
Eno, H. L., Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.A.
*Enthoven, Mrs. F. V., 33 Cambridge Square, London, W. 2.
*Erickson, Ralph W., 2546 Hayes Street, N.E., Minneapolis,
U.S.A.
*Ezra, Alwyn, 143 Esplanade Road, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Fairfax, Mrs., 5 Norfolk Street, London, W. 1.
*Farone, Mrs., 56 Redchffe Square, London, S.W. 10.
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Farrer, H. M., 81 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W. L
*Faustinus, P., Sondre Fasanvej 97", Valby, Copenhagen, Denmark.
*rawcett, E. D., Le Verger, Clarens, Canton de Vaud, Switzerland.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5n Montagu Mansions, York Street.
London, W. 1.
Felkin, Mrs., 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
Ferenczi, Dr. S., Nagy diofalltca 3, Budapest VII, Hungary.
*Fermor-Hesketh, Sir Thomas, Bart., Easton Neston, Towcester,
Northamptonshire.
Ill] Members and Associates. 529
*Fernald, Chester Bailey, 4 Marlborough Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Fernald, Mrs. C. B., 4 Marlborough Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Findlay, J. Arthur, Stansted Hall, Stansted, Essex.
*Firnberg, Miss L. J., 29 Steeles Road, London, N.W.3.
*Fisk, George W., c/o The Kailan Mimng Administration, Tientsin,
) N. China.
*Fitch, Hugh B., 31 Campden Grove, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Flagg, Don Perley, M.D., 3102 La Salle Avenue, Los Angeles, Cal.,
U.S.A.
*Fleetwood-Hesketh, Major C. H., Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakliam,
Rutlandshire.
*Fletcher, L. S., 3 Dr. Johnson's Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
*Flower, Rev. J. Cyril, Ph.D., 84 Chesterton Road, Cambridge.
Fliigel, J. C, 11 Albert Road, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
*Fonnereau, N. C, 53 Cadogan Street, London, S.W.3.
*Foot, Miss Katharine, 31 Brookfield Mansions, West Hill, London,
N. 6.
Footner, Mrs., 187 Ebury Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Forman, Josef, c/o Credit Commercial de France, 103 Avenue des
Champs Elysees, Paris.
Fortescue, Miss Frances, 3 Alexandra Road, Worthing, Sussex.
*Francis, Mrs. Francis.
*Franks, Mrs., 51 Dacre HiU, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W.I.
^Freeman, Rev. Canon, Bentley, Clifton Hill, Bristol.
*Frith, Mrs., 19 Philbeach Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Frost, LoweU C, M.D., 1905 Vista Street, HoUywood, Cal., U.S.A.
Frostick, J. A., C.B.E., 381 Papanui Road, Christchiirch, New
' Zealand.
*Fry, Miss Agnes, Failand House, FaUand, near Bristol.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
'^=Gale, Mrs., 88 Hampstead Way, London, N.W.I 1.
Gantz, Mrs., 25 Cheyne Row, London, S.W. 3.
*Gaskell, Mrs. J. B., 15 Melbury Road, Kensington, London, W. 14.
*Gatlifi, H. E. C, Treasury Chambers, Whitehall, London, S.W.I.
Gay, The Hon. Mrs., 26 Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
GeUert, J. W., Widows' Fund Buildmg, 38-40 GrenfeU Street,
Adelaide, S. Australia.
*George, Mrs., 55 Longridge Road, Earls Court, London, S.W. 5.
*Gibbes, Miss E. B., 25 Jubilee Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.3.
530 Members and Associates. [PAUT
*Gibbins, Mrs. C. E., 5 York Road, Brighton.
*Giberson, O. O., M.D., 538 East Broadway, Alton, lU., U.S.A.
*Giles, E. v., The Firs, Dursley, Glos.
Giles, Mrs., 19 Highfield Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*GLLlett, J. A., Woodgreen, Banbury.
Gilson, R. Gary, Quilters, West Chiltington Common, By Pul-
borough, Sussex.
*Girdlestone, Mrs. Frank, Ridgway, Headington Hill, Oxford.
* Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, 58 Renfield Street,
Glasgow.
Glasson, J. W., I.C.S., Glanusk, Soy, Kenya Colony.
*Glover, Captain A. C, College Arms Hotel, Hertford Heath, Herts.
Glover, Cedric H., 35 Albert Road, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 8.
Goedhart, P., Van Imhoffplein 8, The Hague, Holland.
*Goldney, Mrs. A. Peel, 3 Marine Lines, Fort, Bomba.y, India.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de, The Ladies' Automobile Club,
76 South Audley Street, London, W. 1.
Gooch, G. P., South Villa, Campden HlLl Road, London, W. 8.
*Goodden, Mrs. Robert, 5 Kingsgate Street, Winchester.
*Goossens, Mrs. F. W., 101 St. Luke's Street, Montreal, Canada.
*Gordon-Tucker, Lieut.-Colonel E. F., M.B., 6 Staverton Road,
Oxford.
Gough, A. B., Ph.D., Red Gables, Woodland Rise, Sevenoaks, Kent.
*Gouldsmith, Mi-s., The Bungalow, Shanklin, I. of W.
*Gover, J. M., K.C., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C. 2.
*Gowan, Commander C. H. B., R.N., United Service Club, Pall MaU,
London, S.W. 1.
Graham, J. W., 149 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Grahame, Miss Helen, c/o Mrs. Taylor, 71 Edith Road, West
Kensington, London, W.14.
*Grant-Suttie, Major H. F., R.A. Mess, Colchester, Essex.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., Acton Castle, Marazion, Cornwall.
*Greenwood, L. H. G., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Grew, J. C, Dept. of State, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Griffith, Mrs., 19 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Grignon, Miss A. E., 41 Filton Avenue, Horfield, Bristol.
*Grinhng, Mrs. A. G., Oak Lodge, The Bishops Avenue, London, N.2.
*Grinling, D. G., Oak Lodge, The Bishops Avenue, London, N. 2.
Ill] Members and Associates. 531
*Grisman, Lieut. -Commander J. R., R.N., Royal Naval College,
Greenwich, London, S.E.IO.
*Gr6ndahl, I. C, University College, Gower Street, London,
W.C. 1.
Grottendieck, W. G., Louise de Coligny Straat 16, The Hague,
Holland.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, Suffolk.
*Grugeon, C. L., The Chestnuts, Henley-on-Thames.
*Grmdy, Professor W. W., Lerryn, Rhiwbina, Nr. Cardiff.
*Gunston, Mi's. Derrick.
*Gurdon, John, 44 Pont Street, London, S.W.I.
Guttwoch, Charles, c/o Ewmg House, Chiswell Street, London,
E.G. 1.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, 10 Preonath Banerji Street, Calcutta.
*Hall, Alexander F., 2 Rodney Cottages, Chfton, Bristol.
*Hall, Captain Basil, R.N., 28 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
*Hall-Smith, H., 5 Bakewell Road, Eastbourne.
Hambro, Lady, 4 Norfolk Street, Park Lane, London, W. 1.
*Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, 25 St. Edmund's Terrace,
Regent's Park, London, N.W.8.
Hamilton, J. J.
Hammond, Miss Wuiifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland,
Oregon, U.S.A.
*Hanbury, D., Castle Malwood, Lyndhurst, Hants.
*Hand]ey-Seymour, Major J. B., 1 Wadham Gardens, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Hamien, Mxs. B., Great Surries, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Hanson, Mrs., Pleasaunce Cottage, Dormans Park, Surrey.
Hare, Dr. A. W., 59 York Road, Bukdale, Lanes.
Harper, Miss E. K., The Apple Gate, Coombe Hill, Kmgston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Harriman, T. G., M.D., 3768 American Avenue, Long Beach, Calif.,
U.S.A.
Harrington, E. J., Greensand, Heath Road, Petersfield, Hants.
Harris, Alan C, c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place Vendome,
Paris.
Harris, Mrs. W. F., The WlHows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
532 Members and Associates. [part
Harrison, William, Shots Mead, Sandlands Grove, Walton-on-the-
Hill.
Hart, Mrs. H. H., H.B. " Zephyr," Srinigar, Kashmir, India.
Hart, General Sir Regmald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O., 39 West
Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
Harvey, G. H., P.O. Box 254, Quebec, Canada.
*Haslam, Oliver H., Cairngill, Nr. Dalbeattie, Kirkcudbrightshire.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancashire.
Hauxhurst, Mrs. W., 68 West 58th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Hayes, Rev. Josejoh W., Towerville, The Crescent, Loughton,
Essex.
*Hayley, Guy W., Gravenhurst, Bolney, Sussex.
*Hayward, Lieut.-Colonel W. D., M.B., 50 St. Petersburgh Place,
London, W. 2.
Heath, George H., 7 St. Philip's Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
Heaton, Guy, 51 Westcliff Road, Bournemouth.
Hedley, Dr. E. P., P.O. Stanger, Natal, S. Africa.
Heller, Rabbi James G., Isaac M. Wise Centre, Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus, ReadvUle, Mass., U.S.A.
Henderson, J. J., Parkfield Cottage, Scone, Perth.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London,
W. L
Henrici, Jacob, 1114 Portland Street, E.E., Pittsburgh, Pa., U.S.A.
*Herrmann, Oscar, c/o American Express Co., Rue Scribe, Paris,
France.
*Hichens, Mrs. Cyril, The Almners, Lyne, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Hichens, Mrs. W. Lionel, 15 Buckingham Palace Gardens, London,
S.W. ].
*Hicks, Rev. F. E., St. Anne's Vicarage, Birkenhead.
Hildyard, F. W., 14 Lambridge, Bath.
*Hill, Mrs. C. A., 30 Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
*Hill, Miss Marianne, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford, Yorks.
Hillman, E. Haviland, Haus-am-Muhlbach, Wettersteinstr.'isse,
Partcnkirchen, Germany.
*Hinks, Fred L., 1216 6th Avenue So., Fort Dodge, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Hoare, Miss A. M., Felday, Bramber Road, Seaford, Sussex.
Hoare, Fred H., 37 Fleet Street, London, E.G. 4.
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London,
W. 1.
Ill] Members and Associates. 533
*Hockliffe, Mrs. Ernest, Barrow Court Farm, Tickenham, Nailsea,
Somerset.
*Hodgson-Smith, Mrs. B., 54 Abingdon Villas, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
*Hodson, L. J., LL.B., 54 Warrior Square, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, The University of the Witwaters-
rand, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
Holder, Henry L., Monkbarns, Wheatlands Road, Harrogate.
*Holdsworth, H. H., Amberd, Blenheim Road, Wakefield, Yorks.
*Hole, Rev. Donald, St. James' Lodge, Ftdham Palace Road, London,
S.W. 15.
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
*Hollick, Cajatain A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
*Hollick, Mrs. A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., Dunsfold Rectory, Godalming, Surrey.
Holmes, Miss Lilian, Critchfield, Bosham, Sussex.
*Holmyard, R., 5 Hedgerow Lane, Clifton, Cincumati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
*Holt, Miss M. D., Little Bryan's Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Homan, C. H., Avenyen 3, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Home, Miss Georgina, St. Peter's Vicarage, Elgin Avenue, London,
W.9.
Home, Miss Mary M.
*Hood, Miss P., 6 Maddox Street, London, W.L
Hookham, Philip, Shottery Cottage, Shottery, Stratford-on-Avon.
*Hope, Lord Charles M.", Swuiley Hurst, Ascot, Berks.
Hopkinson, Mrs., l<]llerslie, Adams Road, Cambridge.
*Hoppe-Moser, Dr. Fanny, Franz Josefstr 19, Munich, Bavaria.
*Horsfield, H., 108 Everton Road, Chorlton-on-Medlock, Man-
chester.
*Hoseason, A. G., The Bungalow, Tanworth-m-Arden, Nr. Bir-
mingham.
Hotblack, Frank A., Great Frenches Park, Crawley Down, Sussex.
Howden, Mrs., 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
*Howell, Mrs., Ethy, Lostwithiel, Cornwall.
Howell, Mrs. Philip, 5 Carlyle Square, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Howgrave-Graham, Captain A. H., Randfontein, Transvaal.
Hudson, Miss Alice, Meads Court, Eastbourne.
Hudson, Miss Katie E., Tanglewood, ChaHord, Glos.
2 m
534 Members and Associates. [part
Hume-Rothery, J. H., Mendip House, Headiiigton Hill, Oxford.
^Humphreys, E. Noel, Y Fron, Gogarth, Llandudno.
Humphreys, T. H. A., Boulac, Dacroor, Egypt.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St. Albans, Herts.
*Huxley, Professor Julian S., King's College, Strand, London,
W.C.2.
*Hyland, C. W., Ph.C., 300 Commissioner Street. Johannesburg
East, Transvaal.
*Hyslop, George H., M.D., 3447 80th Street, Jackson Heights, Long
Island, New York, U.S.A.
Imamura, Prof. Shinkiclii, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial Univer
sity, Kioto, Japan.
*Ingram, William H., Asst-Colonial Secretary, Mauritius.
Innes, C. E., 12 Crescent Road, Crouch End, London, N. 8.
Innes. Miss H. K., 4 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Innes, Lady Rose, Midwood, Newlands, Capetown, S. Africa.
*Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenliall Vicarage, Newent, Glos.
Jacks, L. P., LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
*James, Lieut. -Colonel E. A. H., R.E., 6 Harley Hill, Catterick
Camp, Richmond, Yorks.
James, Henry.
James, Mrs. Joseph, Southwood, Barnt Green, Birmingham.
*James, Miss S. Boucher, 2 Whitehall Court, London, S.W.L
*Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Jaschke, W. K., Ebing b/ Bamberg, Bayern, Germany.
Jaye, William R., Beldornie Tower, Pelham Field, Ryde, I.W.
Jeboult, F. M., 9 Walbrook, London, E.G. 4.
*Jenldns, Mrs. N. S., Battle Road, Princeton, N.J., U.S.A.
Jenliinson W. E., Willow Hall, Sowerby Bridge, Yorks.
Jennings-Bramly, Mrs., Hampton Court Palace, Middlesex.
*Jephson, Miss Ina, Laclyoak, Plimwell, Nr. Hawkhurst, Kent.
*Jeschke, Harry Jewett, Sunset Bluff, North Shore Drive, Benton
Harbor, Michigan, U.S.A.
*Joekes, Dr. Theodore, 86 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
Johnson, Charles R., 3 Norwood Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnson, Miss F. C, 25 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
*Johnson, James MacNeill, Aberdeen, North Carolina, U.S.A.
* Johnstone, Hon. Gilbert, 43 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Ill] Memhers and Associates. 535
Johnston, R. F., Government House, Weihaiwei, China.
*Johnston, Dr. William B., Giverny, par Vernon, Em-e, France.
*Johnston, Mrs. W. B., Giverny, jaar Vernon, Em-e, France.
. *Jones, Professor B. M., Engineering Laboratory, Cambridge.
^
*Jones, Sir La-vvrence J., Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
*Jones, Lady, 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Jones, Lawrence E., 15 Cleveland Gardens, London, W. 2.
*Jonson, F. Vilh., Saltsjo-Storangen, Sweden.
J -*Jonson, G. C. Ashton, 59 Carlisle Mansions, London, S.W. I.
*Jordan-Smith , B.
, Orch ardlea, Grosvenor Road, Caversham,
Reading
.
*Judah, Noble B.
Judd, Mrs. Sylvestre Dwight, 16 Bloomfield Street, Lexington,
Mass., U.S.A.
\ *Kahn, Albert, 102 Rue de Richelieu, Paris, France.
*Kakucs, Baroness de, 11 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
j
*Kellett, Mrs. KelsaU, Hurst, Burwasli, Sussex.
*KelIogg, Mrs. Branton, 45 Carlton Street, Brookline, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*KeUogg, F. R., 120 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Kelly, Miss Eleanor B., Kebars, The Lookout, Peacehaven,
Sussex.
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
Kershaw, Mrs. Ronald H., Seacourt, Hayling Island, Hants,
j
*Kiddle, Miss B. M. H., Stafford House, Littlehampton, Sussex.
, *Kimber, J. F. C, The Gate House, Eashing, GodaJming, Surrey.
*King, Dame E. Locke, Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey.
*King, Dr. W. A. D., 1 Bishop's Place, Paignton, Devon.
\ *Kingsley, Mrs., 2 The Gables, Vale of Health, Hampstead Heath,
London, N.W. 3.
Kittermaster, Rev. Digby B., Dame Armstrong House, Harrow-
on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Eaiight, Charles N., 7 Marlborough Buildings, Bath.
*Konig, Mrs. F. A., 44 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Laing, R. M., " Ogilvie," 37 MacMOlan Avenue, Christ-church, New
Zealand.
Lamb; Charles George, D.Sc, 65 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
*Lambert, G. W., 86 Chester Square, London, S.W. 1.
. *Lambert, Mrs. Helen C, 315 West 106th Street, New York, U.S.A.
536 Members arid Associates. [part
*Lambert, Rudolf, Haigst 42, Degerloch bei Stuttgart, Germany.
*Langelaan, H. H., Honiton, Devon.
*Langford, J. C. C, M.R.C.S., Cambridge Villa, Cambridge Road,
Chiswick, London, W. 4.
*Larken, E. P., 98 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W, 14.
Latshaw, Allen, Berwyn, Penn, U.S.A.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Mrs. A. H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W. L
*Leaf, F. A., Lincoln House, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
*Leanijng, Mrs. S., Elmstead, Epsom Lane, Tadworth, Surrey.
*Le-Apsley, James H. M., M.D., 70 N. Judd Street, Honolulu, T.H.
*Lecontield, The Lady, Petworth House, Petworth, Sussex.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Owl's Nest, Lakeland Farms, Cazenovia,
U.S.A.
Lee, Blewett, 1150 Fifth Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Lee, Dr. H. D. C, 32 New North Road, Huddersfield.
*Lees, Norman D., A.I.C, Norton Hall, Norton-on-Tees, Co. Durham.
*Legg, W. A., 14 Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
*Le Lacheur, Mrs., Clare Lodge, 17 Fitzalan Road, Littlehampton,
Sussex.
Lenon, J. W., Wellington Club, Grosvenor Place, London, S.W. 1.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, Portman Square, London,
W. 1.
*Leonard, Miss Margaret, Oakley House, Bromley Common, Kent.
Le Patourel, Miss M. L., 28 Stanhope Gardens, London, S.W.7.
*Le Rossignol, Miss C. E., 37 Victoria Road, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Leslie, Rev. G. Lindsay, The Manse, Eddleston, Peeblesshire,
*Lester, Mrs. M. C, Keynes Place, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
*Lester, Mrs., Whalebone House, High Road, Chadwell Heath,
Essex.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., St. John's Parsonage, Keswick.
*Lewis, David J., 328 Fayette Str., Cumberland, Maryland, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of Adelaide, S. Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, New York,
US.A.
Ill] Members and Associates. 537
^Librarian, Bavarian State Library, Munich.
Librarian, Binghamton Public Library, Binghamton, New York,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Boston Athenaeum, 10| Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswiclc, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Public Library of the District of Columbia, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland
Avenue, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, The John Crerar Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Dutch Society for Psychical Research, Amsterdam.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore,
Md., U.S.A.
*Librarian, General Tlieological Seminary, Chelsea Square, New-
York, U.S.A.
Librarian, The Grosvenor Library, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C. 2.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Imperial Library, Metcalfe Hall, Calcutta, India.
*Librarian, Iowa State Library, Des Moines, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Librarian, James Jerome Hill Reference Library, St. Paul, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Hornby Road,
Bombay.
Librarian, Free Public Librarj' of Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Calif., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
^Librarian, Public Library of the City of Los Angeles, 530 South
Hope Street, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Natal Society and Central Library, Pietermaritzburg,
Natal, S. Africa.
538 Memhers and Associates. [part
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
Librarian, New York Public Library, New York, U.S.A.
Librarian, Ohio iState Library, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Omaha Public Library and Museum, Omaha, Nebraska,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Prussian State Library, Berlin.
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Seattle Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Librarian, Norsk Selskap for psykisk Forskning, Oslo, Norway.
Librarian, Selskabet for j)sykisk Forshmig, Graabrodretorv 11,
Copenliagen, Denmark.
*Librarian, Swarthmore College Library, Swarthmore, Penna., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 23 Bedford Square, London,
W.C. 1.
*Librarian, Legislative Library, Toronto, Canada.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
*Librarian, The University Library, Bristol.
Librarian, General Libraiy of the University of Chicago, Chicago.
111., U.S.A.
Librarian, University Library, Glasgow.
*Librarian, University of Iceland, Reykjavilc, Iceland.
Librarian, University of Minnesota Library, Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Librarian, Victoria Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Williams' Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C 1.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn , U.S.A.
*Llewel]in, Mrs. W., Upton House, Nr. Poole, Dorset.
*Lloyd, Miss Edyth M., 27 Coleherne Court, London, S.W. 5.
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Hillside, Balsall-Common, Nr. Coventry.
*Lloyd, Miss Margaret J., 4 St. James' Square, Bath.
Ill] Members and Associates. 539
*Lloyd-Jone.s, Mrs., The White House, Birchington, Kent.
*Loder, J. de V.
Lodge, Miss E. C, Westfield College, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver. F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, Nr. Salisbury.
Lubbock, Mrs. Geoffrey, Glenconner, North Berwick.
Lunn, Arnold.
*Lyall, Major Edward, D.S.O., 19 Victoria Road, Darlington.
Lyell, Major A. G., D.S.O., Arun House, Horsham, Sussex.
Lyon, Mrs., 49 Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, G.B.E., 16 Great College Street,
London, S.W. 1.
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W. 1.
*MacDonell, Mrs., 40a King's Road, London, S.W.3.
*Machui, Mrs. H. A. C, Kenora, Ontario, Canada.
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy. Perth.
*Mackenzie, Mi's. J., 2 Adelaide Road, London, N.W.3.
*Mackeson, Mrs. Peyton, 1 Eldon Road, London, W. 8.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W. 2.
Madders, Mrs. H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
*Magrane, Mrs. Victor, 28 Royal Avenue, London, S.W. 3.
Mahler, Mrs. John, Bronygarth, Oswestry, Salop.
Mainwaring, Mrs., 11 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
*Mallet, E. H., 14 St. James's Square, Bath.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
*Manning, Miss H. T., 102 Central Avenue, Plamfield, New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, 331 Holebrook Place, Hobart, Tasmania.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., 10 Sion Hill, Bath.
*Marsden-Smedley, Mrs., Lea Green, Matlock, Derbyshne.
Marston, Sir Charles, 4 Camden Park, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Marten, Miss A. R., Osbornes, Liphook, Hants.
*Marten, Rev. G. H., St. Mark's Vicarage, Surbiton, Surrey.
*Martin, Charles E., 22 Preston Street, Brighton, Sussex.
*Mason, Miss, 211 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Mason, Miss Ida M., 1 Walnut Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Mason, Miss M. H., 5 Vincent Square Mansions, London,
S.W. 1.
540 Members and Associates. [PABT
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, Royal Automobile Club, Pall Ma]], London,
S.W. 1.
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 37 rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
*Maxwell, Sir Jolm Stirling, Bart., PoUok House, Pollolsshaws, N.B.
Mayor, R. G., 36 Campden Hill Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 8.
McAlpine, Sir Robert, Knott Park, Oxshott, Surrey.
*McCombe, John, M.D., St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada.
McConnel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
McConnel, Mrs. H. W., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
*McDougall, Miss C. J., 13 The Paragon, Blackheath, London,
S.E. 3.
McDougaU,William,F.R.S.,D.Sc. ,M.B., Duke University, Durham,
N. Carolina, U.S.A.
McGusty, G. A., Eildon, Lansdown Road, Cheltenham.
McKeever, Buell, The Chicago Club, Michigan Ave. and Van Buren
Street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
McLauchlan, G. M., c/o Dr. J. J. Dunne, Port Alfred, Cape Province,
S. Africa.
Mead, G. R. S., 21 Ovmgton Street, London, S.W. 3.
Meek, Maximilian de, 27 Boulevard de Cessole, Nice, France.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., Halcyon Lodge, Vatchag-
handy Road, New Gamdevi, Bombay, India.
*Mellor, Philip S., Rehemet Manor, Warden Road, Bombay, India.
*Meres, W. F., Duncan House, Torquay.
Merryweather, Mrs. J. H., Sarras, Hulham, Exmouth.
*Merton, Gerald, 1 Kensington House, Kensington Court, London,
W. 8.
*Michaelis, Miss M., 306 Addison House, Grove End Road, London,
N.W. 8.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
Milburn, Rev. R. Gordon, Black Bridge, Beaulieu, Hants.
*Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*Millar, G. R. M., c/o Barclays Bank, 5 Half Moon Lane, London,
S.E. 24.
*Millard, Mrs. Almira B., c/o The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Mills, J. P., I.C.S., c/o King, Hamilton & Co., 4 and 5 Koila Ghat
Street, Calcutta, India.
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, Nr. Tonbridge.
Ill] Members and Associates. 541
*Moncrie£E, Captain M. M., The Cliffs, Nelson, New Zealand.
*Montague, Mrs., Penton, Crediton, Devon.
*Monteith, Miss Mary E., 2 Carlton Hill, Exmouth, Devon.
*Montgomerie, C. W., Woodleigh, Aldershot Road, Fleet, Hants.
Monypenny, Mrs. A. E. G., 20 Palace Court, London, W. 2.
*Moore, Miss Margaret H. S., 60 Acacia Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W. 8.
*Moore, His Honour Judge, Eliot Vale House, Blackheath, London,
S.E. 3.
*Morris, Mrs. Alfred, 4 Cadogan Square, London, S.W. 1.
Morris, Mrs. E. R., Corner House, Laleham-on-Thames, Middlesex.
*Mounsey-Wood, Mrs., 41a Golders Way, London, N.W. 11.
*Mudie, Miss L. A., Ratcliffe Settlement, Stepney, London, E.14.
*Mun', Mrs. W. E., Rowallan, Haslemere, Surrey.
*MulIens, Lady, 6 Belgrave Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Mullins, Colonel W. B., Ambersham House, Midhurst, Sussex.
*Mulroney, John E., 215 South 7th Street, Fort Dodge, Iowa,
U.S.A.
*Muri3hy, Gardner, Ph.D., Dept. of Psychology, Columbia
University, N.Y., U.S.A.
Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
Murton, Miss Josephine, Critchfield, Bosham, Sussex.
*Musgrave, Geoffrey, Selukwe, S. Rhodesia, S. Africa.
Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., 12 Cleveland Row, St James's, London,
S.W. 1.
*Myers, L. H., Twyford Lodge, East Grinstead, Sussex.
*Nash, Miss Diana, Point of Pines, Tryon, N. Carolina, U.S.A.
*Nation, Major C. F., R.E., 11 Baehler Building, Gezira, Cairo,
Egypt.
*Naylor, M. C, 35 Priory Road, Bedford Park, London, W. 4.
Neustadter, Louis W., 6845 Odin Street, Hollywood, Cal., U.S.A.
Newton, Miss F. E.
*Newton, George C, Derrynane, Woodgreen, Wednesbury, Staffs.
*Newton, Miss I., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
*NichoIl, lltyd B., Wellington Club, 1 Grosvenor Place, London,
S.W. 1.
*Nicoll, Mrs. DeLancey.
*Nicolls, Brig.-General E. G., C.B., Fir View, 13 Culverden Park
Road, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
542 Members and Associates. [part
*Nisbet, E. T., Birnieknowes, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
*Northcote, Rev. H., 46 Augusta Street, Redcliffs, Canterbury,
New Zealand.
Nutter, Miss H. G., 28 Beechwood Road, Sanderstead, Surrey.
*Odell, A. E., 10 Knights Park, Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
*Ogden, James R., 38 James Street, Harrogate, Yorks.
*Ohlhaver, Hinrich, Alsterdamm 16-19, Hamburg, Germany.
*01dfield. Miss F., 56 Heybridge Avenue, Streatham, London,
S.W. 16.
*Oor, Georges, 49 Dieweg, Brussels, Belgium.
*Osborne, Miss H., 10 Empire House, Thurloe Place, London,
S.W. 10.
*Osmaston, Mrs., Beacon Crag, Porthleven, Cornwall.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Pack-Beresford, Denis R., J.P., Fenagh House, Bagenalstown, Co.
Carlow.
*Pagenstecher, G., M.D., 12a Monterrey 214, Mexico City, Mexico.
Paget, Sir Richard, 1 Devonshire Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Paley, G. A., Melton Wold, Victoria West, CP., S. Africa.
*Palmer, C. G., CLE., Duncan, Vancouver Island, British Columbia.
Palmer, John W. G., 13 New Road, Brighton, Sussex.
*Palmes, W. T., I.C.S., c/o Messrs. Scott & Co., Rangoon, Burma.
*Parish, Mrs. Francis, 2 The Boltons, London, S.W. 10.
*Parkin, John, Blaitliwaite, Carlisle.
*Parr, F. C.
Parsons, Ambrose, Said House, Chiswick Mall, London, W. 4.
Parsons, Karl, Speedwell, Northwood, Middlesex.
*Parsons, Miss Llewellyn, 17 East 83rd Street, New York, U.S.A.
Parsons, N. M., 64 Chelsea Park Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*Parsons, Miss P. C, 95 Nether Street, North Finchley, London,
N. 12.
*Patten, Henry J., Ill W. Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Payne, Mrs. E., 28 Horbm-y Crescent, London, W. 11.
*Peake, C. W., Masonsbridge House, Earlswood, Surrey.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Peck, Miss Charlotte L., Maidencombe House, St. Mary Church,
S. Devon.
Peckham, Mrs. Orville, 1320 N. New Jersey Street, Indianopolis,
Ind., U.S.A.
Ill] Members and Associates. 543
*Peimington, Mrs. Henry, 279 Trinity Road, Wandsworth Common,
London, S.W. 12.
Perceval, Hon. Mrs. Dudley, 153 Church Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Perkins, Miss S. Pv.., c/o Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Ltd., Chancery
Lane, London, W.C. 2.
Perrott, P. D., 48 Torrington Square, London, W.C. 1.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Seighford, Mill Road, West Worthing,
Sussex.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Phi]limore, Hon. Mrs., Kendals Hall, Radlett, Herts.
*Phillimore, Miss M., 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Phillips, Mrs., c/o Mrs. Colin Gow, 42 Drayton Gardens, London,
S.W. 10.
*Piddington, J. G., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
*Pierce, Theron F., Pride's Crossing, Nr. Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Pierce, Mrs. Theron, Pride's Crossing, Nr. Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Piercy, Major B. H., 94 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treen, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, Wandsworth Common,
London, S.W. 18.
Pithapuram, The Maharajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist.,
Madras Presidency, India.
*Plant, Mrs., Carfax, Dilhorne, Stoke-on-Trent.
Plowden, Mrs., Dawnedge, Aspley Guise, Bletchley, Beds.
*Polak, Mrs. M. Graham, 34 De Vere Gardens, London, W. 8.
*Pollard, Miss Frances J., 36 Ampthill Square, London, N.W. 1.
*Pollock, A. N., M.B., Malton House, Barlow Moor Road, Chorlton-
cum-Hardy, Lanes.
*Pontifex, Dudley D., 73 AUejai Park, West Dulwich, London,
S.E. 2].
*Pope, Miss M. M., 7 Princes Buildings, Clifton, Bristol.
*Portal, Mrs. Spencer, Bere Hill, Whitchurch, Hants.
*Porteous, Wing-Commander H. B., R.A.F., M.B., Air Head-
quarters, Valletta, Malta.
Portsmouth, Beatrice, Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
*Potter, J. W., 63 Catherine Street, Westmmster, London, S.W. 1.
*PoweIl, Mrs., 17 Sheffield Terrace, Kensington, London, W. 8.
544 Members and Associates. [part
Powles, Lewis Charles, Rother Cliff, Rye, Sussex.
*Prebble, Mrs., Fairhaven, Upper Strickland Avenue, Hobarl
Tasmania.
*Preedy, Kenelm, 77 Warwick Road, London, S.W. 5.
'
*Preston, E. M., The Warren, Hayes, Kent.
*Price, H., Roj^al Societies' Club, 63 St. James's Street, London,
S.W. L
*Proctor, Major G. Norman, TuUydoey, Moy, Co. TjTone, Ireland.
*Pugh, H. W., Landmark, Salcombe, S. Devon.
*Pumphrey, Mrs., Hindley Hall, Stocksfield-on-Tyne, Northumber-
land.
*Putman, Miss Irene, 328 Walnut Avenue, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Pye, W. A., Priest Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Rabb, Albert L., 1422 Park Avenue, Indianapolis, Ind., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Radclyffe-Hall, Miss M., 37 Holland Street, Kensington, London, W.8.
Rae, J. Burnett, M.B., 82 Harley Street, London, W. 1
.
*Rafferty, Fred, Santa Ana, California, U.S.A.
Raikes, Mrs., The Mill House, Burford, Oxon.
*Rampling-Rose, Major W., Lljmdir Hall, Rossett, Nr. Wrexham.
Ramsden, Miss, 16 Incognito Gade, Oslo, Norway.
*Rand, Waldron H., Jr., 139 Gibbs Street, Newton Center, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Ransom, Francis, Newlands, Hitchin, Herts.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
*Rawitski, Dr. Carl, Friederikstrasse 12, Bochum, Germany.
*Rawsthorn, Mrs., Calder Mount, Garstang, Nr. Preston, Lanes.
*Rayleigh, Lord, TerUng Place, Chelmsford, Essex.
*Rayleigh, The Dowager Lady, 65 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Reade, Herbert V., C.B., Ipsden, Oxon.
Ready, Miss E. A., 300 Victoria Park Road, Leicester.
*Reece, Mrs., Rose Cottage, Peterston-s-Ely, Nr. Cardiff.
*Reeves, Mrs. M. S., 31 Pembroke Square, London, W. 8.
Reid, Mrs., Crescent House, Effingham Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford.
Richmond, Kenneth.
*Rickman, John, M.D., 37 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Ill] Members and Associates. 545
*Riddle, Mrs., Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew,
Surrey.
Ridley, M. Roy, Balliol College, Oxford.
*Rigo de Righi, Madame, c/o The Bank of Australasia, 4 Thread-
needle Street, London, E.C. 2.
*Ritchie, A. J., Oriental Club, Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Riviere, Mrs. Evelyn, 3 Stanhope Terrace, London, W. 2.
Rix, Rev. A. H., 37 St. Paul's Road, Mamiingham, Bradford.
*Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W. 1.
Robinson, George R., 25 Water Street, Liverpool.
*Robson, Major J. S., Hales Place, Tenterden, Kent.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Friezewood, Rudgeway, Bristol.
*Romanes, F. J., The Brick House, Duton Hill, Dunmow, Essex.
*Rothschild, Mrs. S., 20 York Buildings, Adelphi, London, W.C. 2.
*Rothy, Charles, II. Szasz Karoly Gasse 3, Budapest.
^Russell, Mrs., Oaklands, Hook, Basingstoke.
*Russell, ]\'Irs. E. S., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
*Rust, Dr. Montague, Boyndie, West Newport, Fife.
*Ryan, Mrs. E. M., Le Kef, Tunisie, N. Africa.
*St. Aubjai, Hon. Mrs. Francis, 2 Tedworth Square, London, S.W. 3.
*St. John, Brig. -General G. F. W., C.B., Picton House, Llandowror,
St. Clears, Carmarthenshire.
*Salter, F. R., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
*Salter, W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Salter, Mrs. W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Saltmarsh, H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
*Saltmarsh, Mrs. H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
Samaldas, Hon. Sir Lalubhai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay,
India.
*Sassoon, Mrs. Alfred, Weirleigh, Matfield Green, Kent.
Savill, Mrs., M.D., 7 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Schaaf, Albert E., 2034 East 83rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
^Schmidt, Pastor J., Leijjzigstr. 110a, Frankfort a/Oder, Germany.
Schofield, Mrs., 30 Argyll Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Schofield, R. W., 53 Leyland Road, Southport.
*SchofE, Wilfred H., 110 Montgomery Avenue, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa.,
U.S.A.
546 Members and Associates. [part
^Scotland, Douglas C, L.R.C.P., Church Lane, Brighouse, Yorks.
Scott, Miss A. D., 60 Hornsey Lane, Highgate, London, N. 6.
Scott, Rev. D. D., C.F., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New
Zealand.
Scott, Captain J. E., 39 Albany Mansions, Albert Bridge Road,
London, S.W. IL
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
Sellers, Miss R. A., Woodlands, West Virginia, U.S.A.
*Sese, Albin, 51 rue Perronet, Neuilly s/S., France.
Seton-Karr, Captain H. W., 8 St. Paul's Mansions, London, W. 6.
*Sewell, Mrs. C. H., Towerhurst, Leigh Woods, Bristol.
^Seymour, Miss E. P., South Cottage, Pirbright, Surrey.
Shackleford, Hon. Thomas M., 1216 Tribune Building, Tampa,
Florida, U.S.A.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Shann, E. T., M.B., 19 Buckland Crescent, London, N.W. 3.
Shastri, B. G., Kala Mehta's Street, Sagrampura, Surat, India.
*Shaw, Mrs. Bernard, 4 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. 1.
*Sheldon, J. H., M.D., M.R.C.P., Airedale, Regis Road, Tettenhall,
Nr. Wolverhampton.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 330 Upper Richmond Road, Putney,
London, S.W. 15.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Silver, Mrs. Kingston, 33 Marsham Street, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
Simpson, Miss Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
*Smclair, Miss May, 1 Blenheim Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
Sloggett, Lieut.-General Sir Arthur, K.C.M.G., K.C.B., 6s Bicken-
hall Mansions, London, W. 1
.
Smith, G. Albert, Rosedene, 7 Melville Road, Hove, Brighton.
*Smith, Harrison B., c/o The George Washington Life Insurance Co.,
Charleston, W. Va., U.S.A.
*Smith, Marion, 80 11th Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.
*Smith, Percy Kendall, Wintergreen Hill, Painesville, Ohio, U.S.A.
Smith, Rev. Canon Sidney M., 26 Clifton Road, Halifax, Yorkshire.
'*=Smith, Lady Sybil, Mitford House, Lennox Gardens, London, S.W. 1
.
Ill] Members and Associates. 547
Smith, Rev. William J., The Manse, Bo'ness, West Lothian.
*Smith, W. S. Montgomery, 17 WeUington Square, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
*Smith, W. Whately, Chateau Prilly, Lausanne, Switzerland.
*Soal, S. G., Scratton Lodge, Brook Road, Prittleweli, Essex.
Soley, Mrs., 66 Holbein House, Sloane Square, London, S.W. L
Southern, H., 3 Crescent Road, Beckenham, Kent.
*Spankie, W. M., 40 Lombard Street, London, E.G. 3.
*Spears, Mrs. E. L., 8 Little College Street, London, S.W. L
*Spears, John, L.R.C.S., 145 Merton Road, London, S.W. 19.
Spens, William, Corpus Qiristi College, Cambridge.
*Spranger, John A., 4 Via Micheli, Florence, Italy.
*Steane, G. A., 10a Hay Lane, Coventry.
*Stephen, Dr. Karin, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 50 Gordon Square,
London, W.C. 1.
Stephens, Mrs., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Stephens, W. F., Mahe, Seychelles, Indian Ocean.
*Stephenson, F. W., Winter Field, Melbury Abbas, Shaftesbury,
• Dorset.
*Sterling, Miss F. M., Home Wood, Hartfield, Essex.
*Stevens, Rev. W. H., Bankfield, Quarry Hill, Sowerby Bridge,
Yorks.
Stevenson, A. Creery, Bervie, Wood Lane, Fleet, Hants.
*Stevenson, Mrs. A. F. G.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Stobart, Mrs. St. Clair, 7 Turner's Wood, London, N.W. 4.
Stoehr, Miss, Hotel Belvedere, Bordighera, Italy.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
^Strachey, Mrs. St. Loe, 39 St. Leonard's Terrace, London,
S.W. 3.
*Stratton, Professor F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
*Strawson, A. H., 27 Norfolk Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Streatfeild, W. H. R., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 18a Thurloe Place,
Thurloe Square, London, S.W. 7.
Strong, Rev. Charles, D.D., Concord, Barnato Grove, Armadale,
Melbourne, Australia.
Strutt, Captain Hon. A. C, R.N., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
*Strutt, Hon. airs. C. H., Wetherham, St. Tudy, Cornwall.
548 Members and Associates. [part
*Sturdy, Edward T., Norburton, Burton Bradstock, Bridport,
Dorset.
*Summerson, F. C, Whiteways, Meath Green Lane, Horley,
Surrey.
*Suringar, Dr. J. Valckenier, Wageningen, Holland.
*Sutherland, Lady, 36 Upper Brook Street, London, W. \.
*Sutton, Mrs. C. W., 4002 Montrose Avenue, Westmount, Montreal,
Canada.
Swainson, Miss P. J., 24 Montpelier Square, Knightsbridge, London,
S.W. 7.
*Swainson, Miss M., 42 Warrington Crescent, London, W. 9.
Swinburne, Mrs., 16 Park Village East, London, N.W. 1.
*Symington, Howard W., Tlie Paddocks, Market Harborough.
Tait, Mrs., 9 Aberdeen Court, Maida Vale, London, W. 9.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., Lismullen, Oriental Road, Woking, Surrey.
*Talbot, Lieut.-Colonel F. G., D.S.O., Glenhurst, Eslier, Surrey.
*Talbot, Mrs. Hugh, 52 Lansdowne Road, London, W. 11.
*Talbot, P. Amaury, Bishopton, Stratford-on-Avon.
*Tarpey, Mrs. Kingsley, 33 Buckingham Mansions, London,
N.W. 6.
Tatham, Hon. Justice F. S., D.S.O., Parkside, Alexandra Road,
Pieterraaritzburg, S. Africa.
*Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 42 Warrington Crescent, London, W. 9.
*Telling, W. H. Maxwell, M.D., 29 Park Square, Leeds.
Temple, Reginald W.
*Thaw, A. Blair, 3255 N. Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Thaw, Mrs. A. Blair, 3255 N. Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Thesiger, Mrs. Ernest, 6 Montpelier Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
*Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
*Thomas, Mrs. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford.
*Thomas, John F., 4375 Buena Vista, West, Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A.
*Thomas, Norman, 35 Strada Nazareno, Sliema, Malta.
*Thomas, Miss S. E., 368 Alexandra Park Road, Wood Green,
London, N. 22.
*Thompson, Dr. R. B., FeUside, Brixham, S. Devon.
^Thomson, Mrs. Leslie, 9a St. Mary Abbot's Place, London,
W. 8.
Ill] Members and Associates. 549
*Thorburn, John M., University College, Cathays Park, Cardiff.
Thornley, Miss F. J., Bassett Rise, Roundham Head, Paignton,
Devon.
Thornton, Mrs., 5 Belgrave Place, Edinburgh.
Thorp, Richard, 8 Colenso Avenue, Napier, New Zealand.
Thrupp, T. C, M.Sc, D.I.C., A.R.C.Sc, Lyndhurst, 27 Upper
Bridge Road, Redhill, Surrey.
*Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Mary of, Loucen, Nymburg,
Czecho-Slovakia.
Thurston, Rev. Herbert, S.J., 114 Mount Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W. 1.
*TiUyard, Dr. R. J., F.R.S., Canberra, F.C.T., Australia.
Tinnevelly, Rt. Rev. The Lord Bishop of, Bishopstowe, Palam-
cottah, S. India.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
*Todd, Miss C. E., Down Cottage, Magham Down, Hailsham,
Sussex.
Torkildsen, Villieim, Bergen, Norway.
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow,
Ireland.
*Trautwein, Mrs. M. Edith, Viktor Scheffelstrasse 11", Munich.
*Trethewy, A. W., Artillery Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Trimble, W. Copeland, J.P., Century House, Enniskillen, Ulster.
*Trimen, Mrs., Bailey's Hotel, Gloster Road, London, S.W. 7.
*Trotter, Mrs. Constance S., c/o The Post Office, Norton St. Philip,
Nr. Bath.
*Troubridge, Una, Lady, 37 Holland Street, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
*Tubby, Miss G. Ogden, 184 Bellevue Ave., Upper Montclair, New
Jersey, U.S.A.
*Tuckey, Mrs. C. Lloyd, Ingarsby, Silverdale Road, Eastbourne,
Sussex.
Tudor, Owen S., Fernhurst, Haslemere, Surrey.
*TugweU, Mrs. Arthur, Lanherne, Frant Road, Tunbridge
Wells.
Turner, Miss J., B.A., 14 Endsleigh Street, London, W.C. L
*Turner, Miss M. E., 6 Clifton Road, Crouch End, London, N. 8.
Tuson, K. H., Lieut., R.E., c/o C. B. Tuson Esq., 35 New Broad
Street, London, E.G. 2.
*TyrreU, G. N., 15 Hartley Road, Exmouth, Devon.
2n
550 Members and Associates. [part
Ulman, Mrs. Jacob A., Brooklandville, Baltimore County, Md.,
U.S.A.
*Vance, G. Hamilton, Porthwin, 12 North Hill, Highgate, London, N.
^'^Vandy, G. E., 94 Essex Road, Manor Park, Loudon, E.12.
*Van Dijk, H. M., Staalkade 7, Amsterdam, Holland.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam.
*Vatcher, Mrs., 21 St. Leonard's Road, Ealing, London, W. 13.
*Vaughan, E. L., 8 Arlington Road, Eastbourne.
*Verney-Cave, Hon. Mrs., Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
Verrall, Miss M. E.
*Vincent, Miss G. H. M. M., Carisbrooke Road, Leicester.
*Vinen, Northcote H., 8 Park Mansions, Sydenham, London, S.E. 26.
'^Vinton, W. J., 234 East 15th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Voss, Dr. Vivian, Transvaal University College, Pretoria, S.
Africa.
Vyvyan, Mrs. T. C, Poldhu, Richmond, Natal, South Africa. <
*Wagstaff, ]\Irs., The Firs, Roundham Hill, Paignton, S. Devon.
*Wah, See Tiong, J.P., 11 Amber Road, Singapore.
*Wales, Hubert, Homewood Heath, Hindhead, Surrey.
*Waley, S. D., Littlebarn, Wildwood Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 11.
*Walker, Mrs. J. F., 26 St. Andrew's Mansions, Dorset Street,
London, W. 1.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 49 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W.IO.
*Walker, Miss May C, National Provincial Bank, Piccadilly, London,
W. 1.
*Walker, Miss Nea, 13 York Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*Walker, Lieut. -Colonel P. L. E., Great House, Chipping Sodbury.
Walker-Muru-o, Mrs., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Wa]lace, Abraham, M.D., Wendela, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
*Wallace, Miss Margaret, 18 Marlborough Place, London, N.W. 8.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
Wang, C. Y., 63 Szeming Street, S.D.A., Hankow, China.
*Warcollier, Rene, 79 Avenue de la Republique, Courbevoie, Seine,
France.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Moorings, Menai Bridge, N. Wales.
*Warner, Mrs. W. W., 56 Onslow Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Warren, Mrs. Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Ill] Members and Associates. 551
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 60 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
*Warrick, F. W., 6 Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn, London,
W.C. L
Wastell, Mrs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
*Watkins, Mrs., Ock House, Abingdon.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 73 Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
Webster, Mrs. Julia C, 204 Pearl Street, Burlington, Vermont,
U.S.A.
*Wedd, N., King's College, Cambridge.
*Weldon, Arthur, 23 Westminster Palace Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*WeUesley, Sir Victor A. A. H., C.B.. 20 St. Loo Mansions, St. Loo
Avenue, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Wells, Mrs. Thos. E., Green Bay Road, Lake Forest, 111., U.S.A.
*Wells, Miss I. G. T., 19 Albert Road, Eccles, Manchester.
Wemyss, Countess of, 62 Cadogan Square, London, S.W. 1.
*We8t, M., Cornerways, Baughurst, Nr. Basingstoke, Hants.
*Westcott, G. F., Science Museum, S. Kensington, London, S.W. 7.
*Westray, Mrs., 25 Cavendish Road West, London, N.W. 8.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
*White, Miss A. E., Woodbine, Pemberton, nr. Llanelly, S. Wales.
*White, A. Moresby, 2412 West Seventh Street, Los Angeles, Cal.,
U.S.A.
Whitehead, Miss Mercia D.
*Whitmee, A. C, Homelands, Fortis Green, London, N. 2.
*Wigan, Mrs. C. Rookhurst.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
Wild, Miss Ida, Old Larkshayes, Dalwood, Kilmington, S. Devon.
*Wilde, Mrs., Greenhill, Thorncombe, Chard, Somerset.
Wilkins, Mrs., 12 Braemar Avenue, Thornton Heath, Surrey.
Wilkins, C. F., Three Trees, Court Drive, Hillingdon, Middx.
Wilkins, Rev. H. J., D.D., Redland Green, Bristol, Glos.
*Wilkinson, Mrs. C, Ardanoir, Foynes, Co. Limerick, Ireland.
*Wilkinson, Rev. D. H. D., 45 CUfford Road, New Barnet, Herts.
Wilkinson, Miss Marian S., Beech House, The Mount, York.
Wilkinson, Miss Milisent A., c/o The Australian Bank of Commerce,
62 Bishopsgate, London, E.C.
Williamson, Mrs., The Copse, Brook, Godalming, Surrey.
Williamson, John, M.D., Heathfield, 18 College Road, Epsom.
Williams-Walker, Dr. A., 5 Yardley Wood Road, Moseley, Birming-
ham.
552 Members and Associates. [part
Willis, Grant B., Leesburg, Indiana, U.S.A.
*Willock, Mrs. C. J., Tianysoal, Maresfield, Sussex. •
• -
Wills, Miss Mary Tappan, c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W. 1.
*Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, Caii-o, Egypt.
nVilson, J. S., 24 Qiapel Street, London, S.W. L
Wilson, Percy, 48 Clarendon Road, Putney, London, S.W. 15.
^Wilson, S. E,. W., Lodge Farm, Wigginton, Nr. Tring, Herts.
"Wilson-Wright, L. A., Meer Hill, Loxley, Warwick.
*Winby, Lieut.-Col. L. P., 11 Trevor Square. London, S.W.I.
*Winchilsea and Nottingham, Dowager Countess of, Dower House,
Ewerby, Sleaford, Lines.
Wingham, T. H., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada.
*Winterbottom, L. E., 42 Brondesbury Road, London, N.W.6.
Witherby, Arthur George, Treetops, Compton Avenue, Hampstead
Lane, London, N. 6.
*Wodehouse, The Lady Isabel, Kimberley House, Wymondliam.
*Wood, Rev. James L., 912 South 48th Street, Philadelphia, Penn ,
U.S.A.
*Wood, Richard, 7 Frankfort Avenue, Rathgar, Dublin.
*Wood, T. Eugene, Redcliffe, 14 Chine Crescent Road, Bournemouth.
WoodhuU, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire.
Woods, Miss Alice, St. Ives, Radlett, Herts.
Woods, Miss C. E., Graythorpe, Kingswood, Surrey.
Woollett, Lieut. -Colonel W. C, Grand Hotel, Gibraltar.
*Woolley, Mrs. Cornell, 950 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Woolley, V. J., M.D., 18 Freta Road, Bexley Heath, Kent.
*Workman, E. W., B.Sc, Rua do Pinheiro Manso 356, Oporto,
Portugal.
*VVorsfold, Mrs. Basil, 3 Plowden Buildings, Temple, London,
E.C. 4.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, Wandsworth, London,
S.W. 18.
*Wright, Dr. A. F.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 86 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
*Wroe, Miss L., Ness, Neston, Wirral, Cheshire.
Yaroschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
*Yardley, R. B., The Birches, London Road, Cheam, Surrey.
Ill] Members and Associates. 553
* Yeoman, Mrs., 1 Bishopswood Road, Highgate, London, N.6.
*Yeoman, Miss I. V., 1 Bishoj)swood Road, Highgate, London, N.6.
*Yerburgli, Rev. W. H. B., The Rectory, Bredon, Tewkesbury.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, Currant Hill, Westerham, Kent.
*Zachystal, Dr. Dominik, II, Havl. nam 6, Prague, Czecho Slovakia.
*ZeI[er, Dr. Gustave, Dettenhausen, bei Tiibingen, Germany.
i
I
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. 38.
A, Miss. See Wingfield (Kate).
Apparitions, among the Malagasy,
212.
Airports, in the mediiimship of, Miss
Wingfield, 37 ; Molnar, 456, 458 ;
Papp, 456, 462 f.
Auer (Dr), in connection with Fran
Silbert's mediumship, 437, 441,
442, 447.
Automatic drawing, by F. Desmoulin,
32-33.
Automatic writing. Miss Wingfield's,
17 ff. ; Mr F.'s, 281-374 ; the
mechanism of, 332-334 ; rein-
carnationist, 375-387 ; Mrs Cari/s,
375 £f.
Bergson (Henri), his theory of pure
memory, 352, 353.
Besterman (Theodore), 268 ;
" Lib-
rary Catalogue (Supplement 1927-
1928)," 102-207 ;
" Evocation of
the Dead and kindred phenomena
among the Natives of Madagascar,"
209-222 ;
" The Margery Cross-
Correspondences," 399-408 ;
" Re-
port of a Four Months' Tour of
Psychical Investigation," 409-480
(cp. Erratum, p. xi).
Bird (J. M.), 407.
Borderieux (Carita), 479 f.
Braintree, residents, etc., of, identi-
fied in the Veley case, 285 £E., 328-
329 ; church-rate case in connec-
tion with the same, 290-291, 306.
Briffaut (Mme). clairvovant, 433.
Broad (C. D.), quoted, 29-30.
Broadcasting experiment in mass-
telepathy, the, 1-9.
Burns (C4. C. H.), " A Case of Appa-
rent Obsession," reviewed, 388-399.
Calculating dog, Zou, a. 479 f.
Card, Inlaying-. See Playing-card.
Cary {Mrs), automatic writing of,
375 ff.
Chinese scripts, the, in the ^largery
case, 407-408.
Clairvoyance, Miss Wingfield's, 17 ff. ;
in plajing-card guessing, 223 ff. ;
fatigue in, 230 ff. ; the hypothesis
of, in the Veley case, 361-363 ;
A. Moll's technique for, 412 ;
Mme Briffaut's, 433 ; Zakariasne
Papp's, 465 f. ;
Lujza Ignath's,
466 ff. ; Anna Karlik's. 472 ; Lud-
wig Kahn's, 473 f. ; Pascal For-
thuny's, 474 ff. ; Rene Daumal's,
476 ff.
Confucius, spirit-commimications
from, 407-408.
Cross-correspondences, between Mrs
Thompson and Miss \\'ingfield, 35,
43 ; the Margery, 399-408 ; the
S.P.R., 4U0-401 ;"
the problem of
fraud in, 400 ff. ;
proposed between
Mme Kahl and Frau SUbert, 446 f.
Cryptomnesia, the hypothesis of, in
the Veley case, 356-357.
Crystal-gazing. See Scrj'ing.
2o
556 Index to Vol. XXXVIII. [PAHTS
D., J., the obsession- cure case of,
389 ff.
Dancing epidemics, 217 ff.
Daumal (Rene), clairvoyant, 476-
479.
Davidson (Andrew), quoted, 214 ff.
Dead, evocation of the, in Mada-
gascar, 209-221.
Dermography in the mediiimship of
Mme Kahl, 414.
Desmoulin (Fernand), automatic
drawing by, 32-33.
Dessoir (Max), on Ludwig Khan,
473 f.
Dingwall (E. J.), 1, 223 ff.
Dodds (E. R.), 268.
Dog, Zou, a calculating, 479 f
.
Driesch (Hans), 268.
Engraving, supernormal in Frau
8ilbert's mediumship, 441.
Estabrooks (G. H.), experiments in
playing-card guessing, 253 &.
Etta. See Thomas (Etta).
Evocation of the dead in Mada-
gascar, 209-221.
Fatigue in clairvoyance, 230 ff.
Feda, Mrs Leonard's Control, 19,
49 ff.
Fisher (R. A.), his scoring system for
certain experiments in clairvoy-
ance, 223, 2.32 ff., 268-271.
Flashes, supernormal, in Frau
Silbert's mediumship, 443.
Forthuny (Pascal), clairvoyant, 474 ff.
Fraud, the hypothesis of, in Malagasy
mediumship, 221 ; in the Veley
case, 323-325, .354-356 ; in the
Margery cross-correspondences,
399 ff. ; in the mediumship of,
Mme Kahl, 418 f., 423 ; Frau
8ilbert, 435. 438 f. ; the psy-
chology of 445, 447 ft'. ; in the
mediumship of, Tibor MoLnar, 453
ff. ;
Lajos Papp, 456, 461 ff. ;
Ludwig Kahn, 473 f
.
Freud (Sigmund), 101.
Geometrical designs, telepathic ex-
periments with, 414 ff.
Glossolalia, among the Malagasy,
219-220.
Gogol (Nicholas), 426, 432.
Grossmann (R.), 472 ff.
Guessing and clairvoyance, 223 ff.
Gurney (Edmund), 486 ; spirit com-
munications from, 43.
Hacking case, the, 358.
Hall (A. F.), 407 n.^
Handwriting, supernormal repro-
duction of Henry Sidgwick's and
Oscar Wilde's, 353.
Hardwicke (Henry), his participation
in the Margery cross -correspon-
dences, 403 ff.
Herbert, a spirit communicator, 19 ff.
Hill (J. Arthur), " Some Reincarna-
tionist Automatic Script," 375-387.
Hodgson (Richard), 43-44.
Home (D. D.), the levitations of, 278.
Hunt {Margaret), participation in
automatic writing, 281 ff.
Hypnotism, 467 ; in the mediumship
of Mme Kahl, 429.
Identity, personal, and memory,
330.
Ignath (Lujza), a case of multiple
personalitv accompanied by me-
diumship,"^412, 466-471.
Impressions, supernormal, on clay, in
the mediumship of Molnar, 454 ff.
Initials, telepathic experiments with,
416 ff.
lonides family, the, in connection
with the Veley case, 287, 288, 289,
290, 305, 321, 358, 362.
Janet (Pierre), as subject of a tele-
pathic experiment, 424 f., 431.
Jephson (Ina), " Evidence for Clair-
voyance in Card-Guessing. A
Report on Some Recent Experi-
ments," 223-271.
Johanson (Peter), medium for j)sycho-
metry, 472 f.
Johnston (R. F.), on the Margery
Chinese scripts, 407-408.
Jones (Sir Lawrence J.), " Presiden-
tial Address," 17-48.
Kahl (M.), 413, 418, 420, 429, 432.
Kahl-Toukholka (Olga), the medium-
ship of, 413-433 ;
dermographic
and telepathic experiments ir.,
414 ff. ;
scrying in, 416, 422 ; the
hypothesis of hyperaesthesia, 418 ;
of fraud, 418-419, 423 ; statistical
105-111] Index to Vol. XXXVIII. 557
value of, 420, 424, 431 f. ;
hypnosis
in, 429 ;
proposed cross -corre-
spondence with Frau Silbert, 446 f.
Kahn (Liidwig), clairvoyant, 473 f.
Karlik (Anna), clairvoyant, 472.
Kernstock (Ottokar), spirit commnni-
cation from. 443.
Klinckowstroem (Graf Carl von), 412.
Krall (Karl), his apparatus for the
control of physical mediums, 434.
Lamacs-Haugseth (Lujza), in con-
nection with the case of Lnjza
Ignath, 466.
Lambert (R.), 224, 434.
Leonard (Mrs), the mediumship of.
49-100.
Leroy (0.), La Levitation, reviewed,
272-279.
Levitation, the historical evidence
for, 272-279 ; of objects in the
mediumship of Molnar, 454 ff .
;
flagi'ant fraud in, 465.
Library, the Society's, Supjilement
1927-1928 of the 'Catalogue, 102-
207 ;
organisation described, 103-
104.
Lodge (Sir Oliver), and the broad-
casting experiment in mass-tele-
pathy, 1, 2, 8 ;
" On the asserted
difficulty of the Spiritualistic
Hypothesis from a Scientific Point
of View," 481-516.
Luther (Dr), 227.
McDougall (William), review of T. W.
Mitchell, Problems in Psychopatho-
logij, 101.
Madagascar, evocation of the dead
and kindred phenomena among the
natives of, 209-221.
Malagasy, evocation of the dead
among the, 209-221.
Margery, cross-correspondences, the,
reviewed, 399-408 ; Chinese scripts,
407-408.
Mass-telepathy, the broadcasting ex-
periment in, 1-9.
Materialisations in the mediumship
of Frau Silbert, 444.
Maublanc (Rene), 414-415 ; in con-
nection with the investigation of
an alleged paroptic faculty, 476 ff
.
Mediumship, trance-. Miss Wing-
field's, 17 ff. ; Mrs Leonard's, 49-
100 ;
among the Malagasy, 218 ff. ;
Margery's, 401 ff. ; Rudi Sch-
neider's, 434 ; Frau Silbert's, 444.
Memory, in spirit communications,
65-67, 84 ff. ; and personal iden-
tity. 330.
Mitchell (T. W.). Prohlems in Psychn-
jMthology, reviewed. 101.
Moll (Albert), his technique for the
investigation of clairvoj'ance, 412,
468-471.
Molnar (Tibor), the mediumship of,
450-460 ; fraud in, 453 ff.
Moore (George), in connection with
the Veley case, 283, 287, 305, 317,
.327.
Multiple personality in the case of
Lujza Ignath, 466 ff.
Myers (F. W. H.). 486 : sittings with
Miss Wingfield, 43 ; his Human
Personality, 43-44 ;
spirit com-
munications from, 45.
Names, telepathic experiments with
names, 414 ff.
Nell (Dr), Frau Silbert's Control,
441 ff.
Nellie, mediumistic Control, 19.
Neumann (Theresa). 450.
Newton (Isabel), 223, 226, 228, 232,
268.
Nielsen (Einar), medium for physical
phenomena, 474.
Number-preferences, 3-9.
Nona, a secondary personality of
Lujza Ignath, 466 ff.
Obsession, the cure of, 388-399.
O'Dell (A. E.), 223.
Olga, Rudi Schneider's Control, 434.
Pap (Elemer von), in connection with
the mediumship of Molnar, 451 ff.
Papp (Lajos), the mediumship of,
450 ff. ; fraud in, 456, 461 ff.
(Zakariasne), the mediumship of,
465 f.
Paroptic faculty, investigation of the
so-called, 476 ff.
Parr (John), supernormal experiences
connected with, 25-30.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo (Count),
413 ; review of 0. Leroy, La
Levitation, 272-279.
Personality, multiple, in the case of
Lujza Ignath, 466 ff.
Phillimore (Miss), 227.
558 Index to Vol. XXXVIII. [PAjRTS
Phinuit, medimnistic Control, 19.
Physical phenomena, apparatus for
the control of, 434 ;
of, Tibor
Molnar, 450-460 ;
Lajos Papp.
460 ff. : doubtful value of records
of, 451 f.
Piddington (J. G.). 285 ; on visualiza-
tion of handwriting, 353.
Piper (Mrs), predictions by, 44.
Playing-cards, preferences for certain,
59 ; clairvoyance in guessing,
223 ff . ; telepathic experiments con-
nected with cards similar to,
414 ff. ; paroptic experiments with,
476 If.
Poltergeist phenomena, among the
Malagasy, 213-214.
Post-hypnotic suggestion, 467.
Presidential Address, Sir Lawrence
Jones's, 17-48.
Prevision, among the Malagasy, 211.
Prince (W. F.), investigation of
playing-card guessing, 224, 258-
259 ; review of G. C. H. Burns,
" A Case of Apparent Obsession,"
388-399 : his view of Frau Silbert's
mediumshij), 435.
Psychoanalysis, 101, 393.
Psychometry, in the mediumship of
Peter Johanson, 472 f.
Raman enjana. a spiritualistic epi-
demic in Madagascar, 214 ff.
Ranavolana I, Queen of Madagascar,
spirit-communications, etc., from,
214 ff.
Raps, in mediumship of. Miss Wing-
field, 17 ff. ; Frau Silbert, 438 ff. ;
the artificial production of, 438 )i. ;
the part of suggestion in deter-
mining the source of, 440 ; double
and alternate, 440 f., 446 ; in the
mediumshii^ of, Molnar, 455 ;
Papp,
461 ff.
Raxcson, Miss. See Wingfield (K.).
Records of sittings for physical
phenomena, doubtful value of,
451 f.
Reincarnationist automatic script,
375-387.
Reviews of publications : G. C. H.
Burns, " A Case of Apparent
Obsession,"' 383-399 ; 0. Leroy,
La Lhitation, 272-279 ; T. W.
Mitchell, Problems in Psychopatho-
logy, 101 ; M. W. Richardson,
" Experiments in Thought Trans-
ference with Margery,"^ 399-408 ;
N. Walker, The Bridge, 10-16.
Richardson (M. W.), "Experiments
in Thought Transference with
Margery," reviewed, 399-408.
Richet (Charles), quoted, 263-264,
433.
Rondon-Veri (F. A.), the mediumship
of, 449 f.
Ronsarcl (Pierre), 425, 432.
Rothy (Karoly), in connection with
the mediumship of, Molnar and
Papp, 450 ff. ;
Lujza Ignath, 466.
Salter (H. de G.), 268 ; participation
in automatic writing, 281 ; on
certain incidents in a sitting with
Pascal Forthuny, 475.
Salter (W. H.), ''
Some Automatic
Scripts purporting to be inspired
by Rlargaret Veley, Poet and
Novelist (1843-1887)," Part I,
281-330
Saltmarsh'(H. F.), 232, 240 n., 261.
Schelpe (Mile), card-guessing by,
240.
Schneider (Rudi), medium for
physical phenomena, 433 f.
(Willi), 433.
Schrenck-Notzing (Baron A. von),
433 ; his apparatus for the control
of physical mediums, 434 ; his
death,'4.34 >k^
Schroder (C), 472.
Science and spiritualism, 481 ff.
Scrying, Miss Wingfield's, 30-31 ;
among the Malagasy, 218 ; Mme
KahFs, 416, 422.
Semirus, mediumistic Control, 20 ff.
Sequence and time, respective im-
portance of, in observing super-
normal phenomena, 439 n.
Sidgwick (Eleanor Mildred), review
of Nea Walker, The Bridge, 10-16 ;
quoted, 324-325.
Sidgwick (Henry), 486 ;
spirit com-
munications from, 43 ; his hand-
writing reproduced in trance, 353.
Silbert (Maria), the mediumship of,
434-449 ; the hyjjothesis of fraud
in, 435, 438 ff. ;
raps in, 438 ff. ;
touches, etc., in, 441-443 ; en-
graving in, 441 ; telekinesis in,
442, 444 ; flashes in, 443 f. ;
trance in, 444 ; materialisation
105-111] Index 1o Vol. XXXVIII. 559
etc., in 444 ; the psychology of,
445, 448 f. ; proposed cross-corre-
spondence with Mme Kahl, 446 f. ;
mental phenomena in, 446 f.
Skin-wTiting. See Dermography.
Soal (S. G.): 8f., 223.
Society for Psychical Research, " List
of Previous Accounts in the
Society's Proceedings and Journal
of Alleged Supernormal Pheno-
mena among Uncivilised Peoples,"
222 : the Library of, Supplement
1927-1928 of the Catalogue, 102-
207.
Speaking with tongues among the
Malagasy, 219-220.
Spirit communications, from, Her-
bert, 19 If. ; S. Willett, 25-30 ;
E. Gurney, 43 ;
Henry Sidgwick,
43 ; F. W. H. Myers, 45 ; Etta and
J. D. Thomas, 50 ff. ;
among the
Malagasy, 209 ff. ; from Ranavolana
I, 215 1?.; Margaret Veley, 281-
374 ; Walter Stinson, 401 ff ; Con-
fucius, 407-408 ; Dr Nell, 441 ff. ;
Ottokar Kernstock, 443.
Spiritualistic hypothesis, the asserted
difficulty of the, from a scientific
point of view, 481 ff'.
Statistical value of Mme Kahl's
telepathic successes, 420, 424, 431 f.
Stead (W. T.), 42.
Stephen (Leslie), in connection with
the Veley case, 282, 287, 305, 331.
iStigmatisation, a supposed, 450.
Stinson (Walter), spirit-communica-
tions, etc., from, 401 ff.
Sudre (Rene), his criticisms of experi-
ments with playing-cards, 264.
Suggestion, the part of, in deter-
mining the source of sounds, 440 ;
post-hjimotic, 467.
Summerson (F. C), 223.
Siurvival, the hjqiothesis of, in the
Veley case, 325-330, 363-366 ; its
asserted difficulty from a scientific
point of view, 481 ff.
Table tilting in Miss Wingfield's
mediumship. 17 ff.
Tartaruga (U.), 224.
Telekinesis, in the mediumship of,
Miss Wingfield, 35-37 ; Frau Sil-
bert, 442, 444 ;
Papp, 463 ff.
Telepathy, mass-, the broadcasting
experiment in 1-9 ; its relation to
clairvoyance, 227-228 ; the hypo-
thesis of, in the Veley case, 358-361
;
in the mediumship of, Mme Kahl,
414 ff. ;
Lujza Ignath, 467.
Thomas (C. Drayton), "The Modus
Operandi of Trance-Communica-
tion according to descriptions re-
ceived through Mrs Osborne Leo-
nard,' 49-100.
Thomas, afterwards Raw (Etta),
spirit communications from, 50 ff.
Thomas (J. Drayton), spirit com-
munications from, 50 ff.
Thompson (Mrs), cross-correspon-
dences with Miss Wingfield, 35, 43 ;
trance reproduction of handwriting,
.353.
Time and sequence, resj^ective im-
portance of, in observing super-
normal phenomena, 4.39 n.
Tischner (R.), 224, 4.34, 435.
Toronyi (.Janos), 460.
Touches in the mediumship of, Frau
Silbert, 441-443 ; Mobiar, 453 ff.
Trance communications, the modus
operandi of, 49-100.
Trance mediumship. Miss Wingfield's,
17 ff. ; Mrs Leonard's, 49-100 ;
among the Malagasy, 218 ff. ; Mar-
gery's, 49 ff. ; Rudi Schneider's,
434 ; Frau Silbert's, 444.
Uncivilised peoples, accounts in the
Society's publications of super-
normal phenomena among, 222.
F., Mr, his automatic writing in the
Veley case, 281-374 ;
" Some Auto-
matic Scripts purporting to be
inspired by Margaret Veley, Poet
and Novelist (1843-1887). Part II.
The Literary Style of the Scripts,"
331-374 ; this pajJer discussed,
481 ff.
Valiantine (George), his participation
in the Margerv cross-correspon-
dences, 403 ff.
Veley (Margaret), automatic scripts
purporting to be inspired by,
281-374 ;
compared with the Oscar
Wilde scripts, 281, 282, 324, 333,
353, 356 ; Leslie Stephen in con-
nection with, 282, 287, 305, 331 ;
George Moore in connection with,
283, 287, 305, 317, 327 ; residents,
etc., of Braintree identified, 285 ff..
560 Index to Vol. XXXVIII. [parts 105-111]
306, 328-329 ; the lonides family
in connection with, 287 ff., 306,
321, 358, 362 ; the hypothesis of
fraud, 323-325, 354-356 ; of sur-
vival, 325-330. 363-366 : the ques-
tion of identity, 330 ; the literary
style. 331 ff. ; the hypothesis of
cryptomnesia, 356-357 ; of clair-
voyance, 361-363.
Volhardt (Frau), medium for physical
phenomena, 472.
Walker (Nea), The Bridge, reviewed,
10-16.
Wallace (Miss), 223.
Walter. See 8tinson (Walter).
Walter (D.), in connection with Frau
Silbert's mediumship, 434 ff.
Warcollier (Rene), 413 ff., 479.
Welisch (Dr), 450.
Whispering in telepathic experiments,
418.
Whitehead (A. N.), Science and the
Modern World, quoted, 488 ff.
Wilde (Oscar), the automatic scripts
purporting to be inspired by, com-
pared with the Veley case, 281 . 282,
324, 333, 353, 356.
"
Willet (Sarah), supernormal experi-
ences connected with, 25-30.
Wingfield (Kate, known as " Miss A."
and " Miss Rawson "), the medium
-
ship of, 17 ff.
Winther (C), 474.
Woolley (V. J.), 223, 434 n} ;
" The
Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-
Telepathy," 1-9.
X. Captain, the identity of, in the
Margery case, 405-406.
" X.," Mr, automatic verse inspired
by, 367-374.
Zou, a calculating dog. 479 f.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
