{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V39 1930-31","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v39_1930-31.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V39 1930-31","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXXIX
(CONTAINING PARTS 11-2-119)
1930-1931
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely zvitk their authors
XHK SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
31 Tavistock Square, Lonkon, "\V.(;. 1.
Afients fur America: THE F. \V. FAXOX CO.,
3 FP.4NC-I.S Strkkt. Boston, JIass.
PRINIED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
PART 112. . .
PAGE
I. The Tony Burman Case. By Nea Walker .... 1
J I. Report on the Investigation of Some Sittings with Mrs
Warren Elliott. By H. P. Saltmarsh .... 47
Supplement.
I. A Reply to M. Sudre's Article " An Experiment in Guessing."
'
By' Ina Jephson 185
II. The Statistical Method in Psychical Research. By
< R. A. Fisher, Sc.D., F.R.S 189
PART 113.
Library Catalogue (Supplement 1928-1929). By Theodore
Besterman 195
I. Periodical, Serial, Society and Official Publications . 197
II. Books and Pamphlets 200
PART 114.
I. Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-
SoLOvovo 247
II. A Method of Estimating tke Supernormal Content of Medium-
iSTic Communications. By H. F. Saltmarsh and S. G. Soal 266
PART 115.
Presidential Address. By' Dr Walter Franklin Prince . 274
PART 116.
Arthur James, Earl of Balfour (Portrait) .... 305
I. Some Incidents occurring at Sittings with JMrs Leonard
which may throw light on their Modus Operandi. By
Mrs W. H. Salter 306
II. Thoughts on Mr Saltmarsh's Report on a Series of Sittings.
By the Rev. W. S. Irvtng 333
Review : Upton Sinclair, Mental Radio 34:»
\ , . , - : r page
I. The Visit of jvi: FASOAL'.^'ofeTHtJNY'TO'THE Society in 1929. By
V. J. WOOLLEY 347
II. The Margery Mediumship, and the London Sittings of
December 1929. By V. J. Woolley and E. Brackenbury 358
Review : Henry Monnier, Etude medicith de qt/elques guerisons
survenues a Lourdes ........ 369
PART 118.
Report of a Series of Experiments in Clairvoyance conducted
AT a distance under APPROXIMATELY FeAUDPROOF CONDITIONS.
By Theodore Besterman, S. G. Soal and Ina Jephson . 37.5
Review : W. F. Prince, The Enchanted Boundary . . . 415
PART 119.
Officers and Council for 1931 419
List of Members and Associates . . . '. . . . 420
Index 443
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 112
AUGUST, 1929
THE TONY BURMAN CASE
By NEA walker
IZSTTRODUCTOBY
Anthony Hubdis Burman, whom I shall generally call
"Tony" m this paper, is the communicator for whose
identity I shall try to set forth some evidence. He died
in hospital on November 13th 1926, at the age of 20 in
consequence of an accident on the previous day, his motor
cycle havmg collided with a motor car. I did not know him,
but as the value of the evidence largely depends on things
of which I had no conscious knowledge said to me by Mrs.
Garrett's control " Uvani " on November 8th 1927 and by
Mrs. Leonard's control " Feda " on January 7th 1928, at sitt-
ings when I was the only sitter, it is important that, before
describing these sittings, I should make clear what my con-
nexion with his family and my knowledge of facts concerning
him amounted to. To an important extent the evidence
to which I wish to call attention centres round those two
sittings and depends, hke much of that in The Bridge,'^ on
the fact that a number of true statements communicated
cannot have been derived from the sitter's conscious mind.
My first introduction to Tony Burman's people came
through a friend of theirs, a Mrs. X. living in Birmingham,
who wrote to me on September 7th 1926, saying that friends
were going to try to get a httle circle together to sit
regularly on Sunday evenings, and asking whether I knew
of anyone who could help. I had already, since 1925, been
in occasional correspondence with Mrs. X. owing to the fact
that she was enquiring into psychic matters, and I thought
1 Miss Nea Walker's book of that name. Ed.
2 Nea Walker. [part
that the circle must be in her own family. But her next
letter indicated that the circle was to be at Mrs. Burman's
house. I did not know Mrs. Burnian at all, except by sight.
I knew her by sight because I had seen her act (under her
theatrical name of " Isabel Thornton,") at the Repertory
Theatre. Of her family I knew nothing at all, although I had
once, as long ago as 1918, seen her sister. Miss Mabel France,
on business quite unconnected with psychic matters. Mrs.
X.'s third letter, written on September 27th 1926, written, it
should be observed, more than six weeks before Tony Burman
died, contained the following remarks on this subject :
Extract from Mrs. X.'s letter.
I have sat several times lately with the Circle I mentioned
—
it consists of :
Mabel France,
Tony Burman (a boy of about 20),
Sometimes Mrs. Harry Burman {i.e. Isabel Thornton), and
sometimes her husband.
We usually get short messages on the Ouija Board, and also
the table raps out messages.
The other night it demanded that " Steve " [Tony's brother]
who usually takes notes should come to the table, and we then
got messages regarding his football playing from a man who
said he had been a football Blue at Cambridge.
He gave a name none of us recognised, and subsequently
another name of a school-fellow of Steve's who had been
killed a year or two ago in a motor accident but who was not
a great footballer : we felt it rather puzzling.
A great many names were spelt out of people who wanted
to send messages last night, but we could get no clue as to
who they were. . . . We did not get much in the way of a
'
message '
last night as someone, whom no one knows, called
"Geoff" plagued us to sit holding hands and let him speak
through a trumpet.
We sat and sat, and the trumpet waved wildly i
and hit our
heads, but we could only get a faint tapping inside it, no voice. . . .
^ The trumpet did not, I learn, leave the table ; it was a gramophone
loud speaker set up on the narrow end, hitting the sitters as it swayed,
but not leaving the table.
112] Tlie Tony Burman Case. 3
A further letter, October 13th 1926, indicated that the
circle was in difficulties, getting messages purporting to
be evidential which turned out incorrect upon enquiry.
Mrs. X. then said,
—
The Burmans asked me to ask you whether, as you have
experience, you would ever be willing to come to their house
and " sit " one evening 1 We thought you might be able to
give lis some help.
Being interested in the account of the trumpet, which
was said to have moved independently and to have
yielded taps although not voices,—these I was amused to
find the circle expecting immediately,—I was keen to see
for myself what happened ; so I replied that, though I
was not an expert on physical phenomena and did not
wish them to think so, I should like to go presently—at
the time I was just recovering from an illness.
I next heard from Mrs. X. on Nov. 14th 1926 giving a
short report on an anonymous Leonard sitting which she
had had. In the course of the letter she said, in reference
to a communicator :
My husband's brother ^ was very clearly described. He it
was who came first to the Burman's circle table -tilting. Their
name was tried by Feda—at least it seemed to us she meant
them. 2 But we have just had a great grief. Tony, the
Burman's son, who had certainly very great psychic gifts, had
an accident on his motor bicycle on Friday and died yesterday.
We were so fond of him, especially my husband. Such a dear
jolly boy. It seems, in a way, as if God had been tempering
the wind to them a bit by starting him and his Mother in this
interest in The Beyond. But we shall not be able to do much
in the circle without him I think.
' I learn that Mrs. X.'s brother-in-law, though dead many years, had,
when alive, been a close friend of Mrs. Burman.
^Mr. and Mrs. X.'s anonymous Leonard siiting. 11th Nov. 1926:
" He [apparently the brother referred to above] says there is a brud
—
pause—he has used up the power. Name starting BR—he is trying to
make a cross-correspondence. B, R, and 7 or 8 letters—M. No, not
enough power left—you will hoar something which will make you
understand. He is going to have an opportunity soon of speaking again,
not here, but under other conditions."
4 Nea Walker. [part
And so it happened that I never met Tony Burman
when ahve here, nor did I ever join the Burman family
circle. I replied asking Mrs. X. to tell Mrs. Burman, that
if she wanted my help it was at her service. My only
other step was to write to the D.W. Group
—
i.e. the group
of supposed spirits communicating through my sister
Damaris—on November 15th 1926, and to ask for the help
of one of them—Bunny—for Tony Burman, if he needed
any ; I asked for Bunny's help as I knew that Bunny had
a link with people known to the Burmans which might, if
such things mattered, make it easier.
In another letter on November 20th 1926, Mrs. X. wrote :
Mrs. Burman was at a seance at Mrs. Garrett's on the very
day the boy had his smash, and the medium there said some-
thing which now looks like foreknowledge. She [also] described
most accurately the friend who is said to have '
lent his
power '
to operate the Ouija Board. [At the private sittings.]
After this Mrs. X. went abroad for several months and
I heard no more from her in connexion with the present
case. Details of this sitting of Mrs. Burman's with Mrs.
Garrett I did not hear till much later. I heard them in
conversation with Mrs. Burman, and afterwards, in a
letter dated April 17th 1928, she wrote :
As you know I took no notes, but so far as I remember the
exact words used by Uvani [Mrs. Garrett's control] were '
I
see with you, Madame, your littlest son, there is some trouble
but he wants to say don't worry.' Stupidly, the word
"littlest" put me of¥, and I said I had no "little son." But
it might quite well have been Uvani's way of saying " young-
est." I said I could not place it at all, my sons were both
well, and in no trouble, so he [Uvani] said,
—' We will leave
it then, Madame, but I think I am right.' . . . The sitting
was from 3.30 p.m. till about 4.45. Tony's accident took place
at 2.30, and the message relating to him was given by Uvani
towards the end of the sitting. I did not get to the theatre
till about 8.30 i).m. when I found Steve's wire.
The coincidence was certainly a remarkable one. It is
of course unfortunate that no notes were kept, but it may
112] The Tony Burman Case. 5
be mentioned in corroboration (besides Mrs. X.'s letter
quoted above) that Miss France remembers clearly tliat on
reaching home in response to the telegram, Mrs. Burnian's
first words were,— I've been told about this."
This striking success of Mrs. Garrett's was doubtless the
reason of further experiments with her by Tony's family.
They had sittings on December 17th 1926, April 16th 1927,
and November 17th 1927—this last being after my own
sitting. Miss Mabel France, Mrs. Burman's sister, was
present on all these occasions and she was accompanied
by Mr. Stephen Burman on the first, by another sister on
the second, and by Mrs. Burman on the third. There
were some good points given at all three. I do not,
however, propose to deal in this paper with the evidence
they afford, though I shall have to refer to them again
presently. All the three sittings were held at The British
College for Psychic Science, whereas my own was at The
London Spiritualist Alliance rooms, and there seems no
reason why Mrs. Garrett should have connected me (I sat
anonymously) with any of Tony's friends or relatives.
As the Burman family were accustomed to having sit-
tings at home in Tony's life-time, their first attempts to
reach him were naturally made there, sometimes with a
table, sometimes with an Ouija Board. Careful records
were kept of these sittings, and I have now (May 1928)
had the opportunity of reading through the book. There
is nothing evidential in the strict sense, but I was struck
by the feehng one got that it was the same personality
whenever Tony Burman purported to communicate, and I
have placed in the full Report ^ of the Case a few ex-
tracts. Whatever the value, or otherwise, of such domestic
efforts at communication without strong mediums, they
seem to me, in many cases I know of, to have the effect
of making it comparatively easy for those left on earth
to reach the minds of such as Tony Burman and to direct
them to come, for example, to some stranger like myself
and to give evidence of survival, even through a medium
strange to the communicator. In the present case one
should probably also bear in mind the fact that the boy
1 Filed with the S.P.R., but not pubhslied.
6 Nea Walker. [PABT
himself had a i^sychic faculty when alive and had been
keenly interested in his own experiments then.
Other attemj)ts to get into touch with Tonj^ were made
through the automatic writing cf his aunt, Miss Mabel
France. She had begun writing automatically after some
conversation on the subject on September 29th 1926, that
is, about six weeks before Tony's death, and continued it
afterwards. I have recently (May 1928) been allowed to
read her script from beginning to end.
There is a good deal of it, and perhaps nothing eviden-
tial, though there were one of two small tests which
proved correct. Once more the value seems to lie in the
channel which helped with the later sittings with professional
mediums ; and also in creating in the minds of some of the
surviving relatives a sense of the boy's nearness.
So far as I could judge, the personality purporting to
be Tony Burman seemed very like the Tony B. which
commmiicated through the Burman Ouija and Table Circle.
He also seemed consistently like himself all through Miss
France's attempts at automatic writing.
A feature of the script was that each time I was taking
a sitting, the " writing " seemed to show a dim knowledge
of the event. And, a few days before I sent this report
to the Burmans to examine—quite unexpectedly as far as
they were concerned—Miss France says she had a long
communication from Tony Burman, telling her it was
coming, and a good deal about it. Unfortunately she was
feeling disgusted with the quality of her faculty, and tore
up these last scripts before my packet arrived.
As regards my own knowledge of the Burman family, it
will of course occur to the reader that I must have seen
accounts of the accident and inquest in the newsjiapers.
As a matter of fact I do not think I did see them, but
if I did, the one thing apart from the accident which I
should have learnt was Tony Burman's profession—that of
a mechanical engineer. I certainly, however, had no con-
scious knowledge of this when I sat with Mrs. Garrett or
with Mrs. Leonard.^
1 I liavo collected some newspaper accounts and filed them with the
fuller documents concerning the case whicli I shall lodge at the S.P.R.
112] The Tony Burman Case. 7
My first direct communication with Mrs. Burman arose
from her reading my book " The Bridge " pubhshed in
September 1927. She wrote congratulating me upon it,
but from her letter I need for the j^urpose of this paper
only quote the following :
My only slight introduction to you was through Mrs. X. of
when you veiy kindly told me, through her, of Mrs.
Garrett, the trance medium at the Psychic College m London.
And now to the purpose of this letter. I have just finished
reading your engrossing book " The Bridge "...
She then went on to enquire as to the identity of one
of the members of the D.W. Group (my sister Damaris'
group of communicators), " Geoff," since at her table
sittings she had had a communicator of that name. But,
as "GeofE" of the D.W. Group in '"The Bridge" was a
pseudonym, that enquiry led nowhere.
Meanwhile, her sister. Miss Mabel France, had written to
me, on October 22nd 1927, also expressing interest in " The
Bridge," and asking me if I could help her to get some
message, through Miss Bazett, for the Burmans, in time
for the anniversary of Tony Burman's death, of which she
gave me the date for Miss Bazett's use, together with his
full name. Miss Bazett kindly made three attempts with
no sitter connected with Tony present, but the results
were not considered good, and I only mention them
because, in commenting. Miss France wrote the letter from
which I quote below, and the mention of Alpine Climbing
in it gave me a point about Tony of which I was ignorant
before.^
Extract from a letter from Miss France.
On the whole, I am inclined to think that it was Tony who
was trying to get through, but I do not consider that the
evidence is good. Perhaps I am expecting too much. The
rooms, in ease any student cares to consult them. I shall give here all
the information I think really imijortant.
1 While writing this report I have read the annotated records of these
sittings again and do not think they gave me any other information.
Mrs. Sidgwick, who also read them, agrees in this.
8 Nea Walker. [part
only real points that he got through were the hint of his
accident, the question that he is always trying to get tests
through, and his sympathy.
The reference to ice was most interesting.
The one thing that absorbed him was Alpine Climbing.
He talked and thought of little else, especially during the
last year of his life ; but Miss Bazett seems to make it clear
that this [reference] is only to give relative significance to
something which I cannot trace.
Finding that Miss France had not, throngh Miss Bazett,
achieved anything which she thought likely to be helpful
for the anniversary, and having myself been offered a free
anonymous sitting with Mrs. Garrett by the Council of the
London Spiritualist Alliance I decided to use it for the
purpose of trying to get something for Mrs. Burman. My
personal reason for choosing this case in preference to any
other was that I had seen Mrs. Burman act soon after
her boy was killed ;
and, knowing her by sight, had
observed her going about with no outward signs of grief
and depression, and had greatly admired her pluck. Also,
having been indirectly interested in Tony Burman's own
psychic experiments when he was alive here, I had an
interest in him. So I thought that all this would .
probably
count for something in achieving success, and perhaps
justify an experiment rather difficult for a first sitting.
Before I go on to describe this sitting which took place
on November 8th 1927, I must explain that though before
October 31st 1927 I had seen no records of the sittings
which the Burman family had had with Mrs. Garrett nor
heard any details about them, I had learnt from Miss
France's correspondence with me d propos of Miss Bazett
that, on April 16tli 1927,—their second sitting with Mrs.
Garrett—Tony had seemed to communicate ; and so I
wrote a note to Miss France, on October 31st 1927, asking
her just to tell me " whether the boy [Tony] had come
through Mrs. Garrett by name,'" since I had been " offered
a sitting with her, meant to try her when in London, and
thought perhaps I might see what luck I had in trying
to get anything about '
Tony.'
"
112] The Tony Burman Case. 9
I asked her to tell Tony, and said that I had tried to
tell my folk " over there." I also asked her not to give
me information, but, if there were a name which might
explain Tony to the control, to tell me that. Unfor-
tunately, instead of doing so, she sent me a copy of the
sitting in question. The correct points were only indicated
in the margin.^ I had no time to read it and take it in, I
merely glanced down the pages to see whether the name
Tony occurred, and found it. So I put the sitting away
and did not study it until after April 1928. But this
complicates my work in presenting the material consider-
ably, for I have to take that sitting into account, since I
do not know what information my subsconscious mind
managed to acquire in skimming down the pages to see
if the name occurred. I can only say, truly, that the
glance which I gave the record was extremely hasty. I
looked for the name, found it, and left it at that. I do
not myself think that there is much in my sitting which
is directly derived from a glance at Miss France's. The
best material certainly is not. But in the fuller account
already mentioned there is the report, as I saw it, and
anyone disposed to read that can judge for himself.
Miss France thus knew from October 31st that I was to
have the sitting and try the experiment. And she also
knew that I was going away from home on November 3rd
for a week. She may therefore have guessed that the
sitting would take place during that week though she did
not know the day. I had avoided letting other members
of the family know about the experiment as I feared it
might prove a complete failure.
A sitting with a fresh medium, unaccustomed to oneself
and to one's communicators, is of course always rather
confusing, and everyone concerned is at a disadvantage.
This I think should be remembered in comparing the result
of this sitting with that of the sitting which I took later
with Mrs. Leonard.
The sitting was anonymous as far as Mrs. Garrett
was concerned ; if I had previously had any doubts as
^ The annotated record of tliis sitting was first sent to me on October 5th
1928. N. W.
10 Nea Walker. [part
to whether she knew me, and in fact I had none,—the
internal evidence of the sitting clearly shows that she
did not know me. I had never before seen Mrs. Garrett,
thongh I had heard reports of her which were good on
the whole. Her manner is dignified, and she did not
talk to me either before or after the sitting. She sits
in broad daylight or electric light. There is no fuss,
and the " trance " comes on quickly and easily, taking,
in this particular case, just five minutes. The control
is supposed to be an Arabian, Uvani by name.
Report of Sittings with Mrs. Garrett
For the convenience of readers I will here give a list of
the best points of evidence in this sitting :
PAGE
1. A memorial and inscription - - - - - - 12, 13
2. His mother's health and worries - - - - - 13
3. Renovation of the house ... - - - - - 14
4. Oblong box --------- 14
5. A watch causing amusement ----- 14
6. Picture of his mother " listening-in " - - - - 15
7. Portrait which used to be " laughed at " - - - 15, 16
8. Portrait of his sister - - - - - - - 16
9. His mother and an intention to attend a service of
remembrance - - - - - - - - 17
The full report of the sitting with annotations is filed
with the documents concerning the case at the S.P.R. rooms.
The earlier part of the sitting, though somewhat vague and
confused, may have referred to my own people at least in
part, and was not without interest ; I was of course as
encouraging as I could be in recognising likenesses, but I
shall not attempt to describe or quote here any part of
the sitting except those statements which, after I had seen
the annotations on the whole record by the Rurman fam-
ily, appeared to me to refer to Tony Rurman. I should
like to say here that I have had very considerable help
from the Rurmans as annotators. If they will allow me
to say so, I found them most kind, very sensible, and not
at all anxious to find Tony when he was only doubtfully
present, although they put all the possibilities before me.
112] The Tony Burman Case. 11
After the above mentioned talk, which may have
referred to my people, Uvani went on to describe two
other people in such a way as to suggest to Mrs. Burman
when she saw my record, her uncle Edwin Jones and her
father. Having now discussed the details with her, I can
see that the recognition is legitimate. Now, in the
Burman home circle, these two men, Uncle Edwin Jones,
and Mrs. Burman's father, Henry Charles, belong more or
less together. And they have each the same sort of
relation to Tony Burman. Both had communicated at
home, and Mrs. Burman's father had been well described
through Mrs. Garrett to Miss France and another sister on
April 16th 1927.
Again, showing that this material perhaps related to the
Burmans, were given the names, " May and Marion, on
the maternal side." It is a fact that Mrs. Burman's name
is Marion Isabel, commonly called May ; and that her
mother's name is Marion. So that I feel that the Burmans
were reasonable in thinking that this material probably
referred to their communicators.
Meanwhile, just before May and Marion were mentioned,
but not before the two men were described, I had asked,
rather in despair, whether Uvani had " ever had a boy
communicator called Tony? Did he remember ?
" The
reply was—" I don't remember. My people come and go.
Strange I can get so little light
"
—I of course having been
obliged to say that I could recognise none of these later
descriptions.
There was then some confusion and apparent return to
my own communicators, and then, quite suddenly, the
control said :
There is one over here near him [i.e. apparently near
the D.W. Geoff] Anton—Antony. Then he would be
Tony ?
I replied :
It sounds possible. Has Tony any messages for his
mother ?
The supposed Tony at once referred to his mother's
state of health, and to worries (see jDp. 13 and 14) ; these
12 Nea Walker. [part
references were understood by the Biirmans, not by me,
and referred to matters cropping up since the date of the
last sitting taken by the Burmans. Uvani then said that
Tony told him that his mother had actually spoken to him
through " this condition " twice. Now, I did not then
know how many times Tony had communicated, nor to
whom. It turned out that Tony had communicated
through Mrs. Garrett twice, but not to his mother ;
once
to two aunts—Ai^ril 1927, and once to the brother and
aunt together, December 1926. His mother and aunt are
however much alike ; and this might link them up nor-
mally in the mind of the medium.
Tony then referred to a " Hilda " and to his sister ; it
almost sounded as if Hilda ivere his sister. I learnt,
afterwards, that Hilda was a favourite cousin, and a great
friend of his sister. This Hilda, I find, had been referred to
(in connexion with a small evidential point) at the Garrett
sitting attended by Tony's brother and his aunt—namely
the one through which I had glanced, 'Mwannotated, to see
if the name Tony would help the control if / used it.
Discounting references to the accident, which went no
further than my knowledge, there were afterwards the
following items of value, i.e. which were unknown to me,
and also not repetitions from previous Burman-Garrett
sittings. I quote some of them verbatim with the anno-
tations supplied later, as this is really the simplest method
where the evidence is clear and not tangled up with
material belonging to other communicators.
FuKTHER Extracts from Sitting with Mrs. GXrrett,
November 8th 1927.
There was something to do Note by Stejyheyi Burman.
with a tablet or a memorial. Yes.
He knew she spent some time
and thought over this memor-
ial, with the inscription and
the design.
N. W. Tell me anything you
can about it. [My knowledge
of it is exactly nil. N. W.]
112]
A small kind of memorial.
She must have been spend-
ing some time about it. He
says she hasn't put anything
about Death, something to do
with Resting and Life, or
Resting in Life. He speaks of
that. And of knowing about
it all, and of what she did
about that.
If you could thank her for
that ?
He knew how ill she was.
Is his mother a little rounded
of body ?
[I Imow her by sight, and
on the stage. N. W.]
A jolly woman, a most
charming woman.
She's been suffering a little
with the foot and the limbs.
Tell her he knew. Much
weakness there (back about
waistline) Very busy, very
active. But her back has been
troubling her.
Also something about her
being off sleep.
She was worried about some-
body.
October, the first two weeks,
she was rather worried. And
she's been off her sleep.
She gets very short of
breath.
13
Note by Stephen Burman.
Tony's mother was much
concerned during the last week
as to whether she should insert
an "In Memoriam " in " The
Birmingham Post." She even
went so far as to consider the
wording of such an announce-
ment.
Note by N. W.
She tells me, 14th Nov.
1927, that she would certainly
not have mentioned Death.
Note by N. W.
See earlier references to
health.
Note by Mrs. Burman.
More than correct, unfor-
tunately.^
Note by N. W.
I found this true also.
Note by Stephen Bwman.
Correct.
Note by Stephen Burman.
Quite correct. Theatrical
difficulties as mentioned pre-
viously, and consequent effect
on sleep.
She does not now, thanks to
an operation, 18 months ago.
The Tony Burman Case.
^ The aunt is of the same build, see p. 12. N. W,
14 Nea Walker. [PAET
[I knew this. N. W.] [Later :
I had not known of the
operation. N. W.]
He says he helps that as
much as possible.
There was some change with
a house. If not a change, a
renovation.
Again he speaks of Hildred
or Hilary with love, and in
connexion with a sister.
He's giving an impression
too of—tell her that she has
a box connected with him.
Almost like a wooden box.
Oblong, not small. She's got
prize books and other things
l^ut away. But in that box
she's got some things belong-
ing to him, and amongst it
although I'm not sure—there's
a lot of personal stuff in that
box—there's something to do
with a cap of his when he was
smaller. She kept that by her.
Did she get a watch ?
There was a watch to which
he attached value. He doesn't
know whether she's got it.
But he attached value to it,
and she will laugh over that.
The next few items were
correct for Tony Biirmaii.
Note by Stej^hen Burman.
We rebuilt a wing of the
house between Christmas and
Easter 1927
—
i.e. since Tony's
death.
The cousin Hilda, again, see
page 12.
Note by N. W. Uth Nov. 1927.
Mrs. Burman told me that
his sister (Hilda's friend) had
an oblong box which she
prized very much though it
was nothing of value. It is
wooden. When closed it looks
like a box ;
open, it is an old-
fashioned desk. Size—length
20i" ; width 10|" ;
depth IV.
It never belonged to Tony.
She did have snaps of Tony
in it, nothing else of his but
" personal stuff " of her own.
No Cap.
Note by N. W. Uth Nov. 1927.
Mrs. Burman told me, to-
day, that Tony had bought
himself a 2/9 watch of which
he was very proud. And that
the family always teased him
by asking him the time, as
the watch was never right !
either known to me, or in-
'hen Uvani saj's that
He [Tony] must have spoken to her [his mother] in
July. Also about this time last year.
112] ^]^%e.\ 'Th'^y, VBnrmaW Ga.s^'A \ 15
There was no professional 'sitting in'; Jfibr': J, 927 ; but the
sitting at which Uyaiil', teed to, Wa>rti'.]M:rs^ 'Burman of the
trouble about her " littlest son " was on 12th November
1926. And Uvani added
—" He tried to send her a
warning that all was not well." This of course I had
heard of, see page 4.
It is curious that, among these remarks applicable to
Tony Burnian, Uvani refers to someone in the physical
body called Humphrey, connected with Tony—just as a
passing remark. Now I discovered, afte7- the sitting, that
three peojile whom I had sent anonymously to Mrs.
Garrett had " Tony " as communicators. Two of these
were children ;
and, one of these children had a living
brother, Humphrey. So that this looks rather like the
control's or medium's memory working. On the other
hand, when I asked for a Tony, I did not reahse that
there were three to choose from who might be connected
with me in the medium's mind. How was it that Uvani
produced, except for this reference to Humphrey, only
evidence of the Tony I wanted ?
A little later in the sitting Tony Burman seems to
become clear again, in a reference to wireless :
He tells you to tell her that Note by Stephen Burman.
he likes the Avireless in the Tony was very keen on
house, and also the music wireless.
And will you say that, in And, his mother always -works
the evening, when sitting in at raffia in a particular corner
her own particular chair, busy of the sofa while listening to the
as usual, he is always there, wireless.
He listens in with lier. He is
interested in long-distance com-
munications more than any-
thing in the world, because he
has a theory that . . .
There followed some theoretical remarks on the analogy
between wireless and psychic commimication, of no partic-
ular interest. Presently Tony announced that there was
" a portrait of him which they used to laugh at, taken
with a brother, somewhere in a bedroom now." This I
16 [part
was told was .-cprrecti- iiac;ludi:ng* 'iikf.' laiigiiing. More details
as to photographs* Avtem igiyeui: ^Q'-'-fair ; as I can learn,
correct, but rather too much confused for this account.
Then the communication seemed to improve again, and
the following is worth quoting :
Somebody connected with Tony has an Uncle John,
the family, John, an Uncle
John. She will understand
who he means.
Is there an Edith, an Aunt, Note by N. W.
or somebody in the physical I learnt, in conversation
body, Edith, he says—She with Mrs. Burman, that there
hasn't altered a scrap. is an Edith, not an aunt, but
of auntdike age in regard to
Tony, who has sat with the
Burmans.
Note by Stephen Burman.
Tony had a sister to whom
he was devoted.
We cannot trace " a trij)
abroad."
She spent her summer holi-
days at the seaside.
During this time a very
excellent snapshot was taken
of her
—
At the end of August.
There's one sister to whom
he's very devoted. They were
great friends. That sister was
thinking of some trip abroad,
or over water. I think she
took that trip—no, I don't
think she went abroad. But
there was some thought of it.
She went near water. During
the time she was near this
water, she had a small portrait
done which he liked awfully.
The beginning of Sej)tember.
He had a friend who went
out during hostilities.
Note by Stephen Burman.
No. [But I am told that
the Geoff of the Burman
psychic group, who thus " made
friends " with Tony, died so.
N. W. 14th November 1927.]
His Mother is going to some
kind of remembrance service.
She's to remember he will be
Note by Stephen Btirman.
Quite correct. For a week
she had considered going to
112] The Tony Burman Case. 17
there too, although it's not a the Albert Hall Remembrance
day for him. , Service on November 11th.
Assure her he knows she's
been talking about something
to do with the service.
Again the. medium enlarged a little on the question of
" a grave or a garden of remembrance," and went wrong,
for Tony had no grave—his body was cremated, I learn,
and the ashes scattered. This part seems to be a thought
roused by the previous references, and, as it did not apply,
I suspect that the medium's own mind began to take
control, and that confused recollections of other sittings
were consequently introduced. I fancy that this must
often occur.
Then Tony Burman disappeared from the sitting almost
as abruptly as he entered it.
Subsequently, as already stated, Mrs. Burman and Miss
France had a joint anonymous sitting with Mrs. Garrett,
on 17th November 1927, at the British College. This
sitting contained only one point unknown to the sitters,
but was good as a sitting of the other type. For instance
Tony remarks, characteristically
—" Tell the men of the
family that the garden is awful at the moment." And
" ask Joan [his small sister] about Marjorie ; she's another
sprat "—Tony's generic name for Joan and her small
friends. And again, referring to his motor cycle :
" there's
net even the ghastly remains."
And also :
Medium. He was jolly-looking, laughing, tall, full.
Mrs. B. Yes, he was fat.
Medium. Tony says, '
I didn't mention the stoutness, so I
asked the control not to mention it. I was never
fond of my girth. Thank heaven it's not there
now. I'm much more graceful—round—jolly—it's
most imkind of you to refer to it.' Everyone
forgave him his size because he was so jolly. He
is laughing again.
B
18 Nea Walker. [part
I quote the above two small items because they seem
to me to make Tony " live " rather better than he can
in the sort of evidence with which we are chiefly con-
cerned.
It was in connexion with the annotations to my Garrett
sitting that I met Mrs. Burman for the first time. She
and her surviving son Stephen had annotated the sitting,
but she wanted to meet me and explain the annotations.
So we met, on November 14th 1927, for about three
quarters of an hour at one of Kunzle's cafes in Birmingham.
We talked only of the sitting and of matters directly
bearing on it, and I saw no other member of her family
at that time, nor did I go to her home ; I knew where
it was, but had never been inside.
I met her again, at the same place, and for the same
length of time, about a vv^eek later—after she and her
sister had had their joint sitting with Mrs. Garrett on
17th November 1927 (see above) ; for Mrs. Burman wished
me to see the reference to my attempt through Mrs.
Garrett on the 8th. In the course of their sitting Tony
had remarked that he had
got in one morning and been able to send messages, lady
communicator ; didn't get much of her own, but I got
through all right. And you said
—' I wonder if Tony will
mention it.'
This evidently, I think, referred to my sitting, at the
London Siiirituahst Alhance, on the 8th November
1927.1
Mrs. Burman also read me the rest of the record of the
sitting of the 17th November 1927 with comments. There is
no evidence in it which affects anything I quote out of my
subsequent Leonard sitting. Some of tliis Garrett sitting
1 I am kindly allowed both by the L.S.A. and by the British College to
send sitters, anonymously, to Mrs. Garrett at their rooms. I give a note
saying that the sitter is a bona fide enquirer ; the sitter presents that, and
is asked no further questions by anyone.
Mrs. Garrett thus knows that I send sitters to her. But, she could not
know me by sight, and therefore could not, when I sat anonymously with
her, have known that I was the individual who sometimes sent sitters to
her at these institutions.
112] The Tony Burman Case. 19
was almost a repetition of mine. The one point of real
evidential value was the following short sentence :
There's Billy, a girl, ask Joan, Billy B.
This meant nothing to the two sitters until they con-
sulted Tony's small sister, Joan, aged 10, and discovered
that a child whom the sitters knew as Louise Morgan
(pseudonym) was called, by Joan, Billy. The " B " is
perhaps an addition by the medium—probably due to
some other association. Small as it is, this is a good httle
point of evidence. It is however open to the objection
that either the aunt or the mother may have heard the
name used without consciously noting it, since they have
access to Joan. But their surprise, I think, indicates that
this really was not the case. They feel sure of it. At
any rate they consider it one of the points in the sitting.
Later in the same month, November 26th 1927, Miss
France (Mrs. Burman's sister) spent a couple of hours in
my home as she wished to meet us. It was a first
meeting, except for the business appointment many years
before, and the talk was a little on psychic matters
generally, and on general social lines otherwise. No
information about Tony Burman or his family was given
away to me.
After seeing the annotations on my Garrett sitting, I
began to feel that Tony's efforts might lead to something
good which should be helpful to his people, some of whom,
I learnt, were feehng very sceptical. So after this I
refused to see any more of either Mrs. Burman or IVIiss
France, since I planned to try Tony Burman as communi-
cator at my next Leonard sitting, the date of which I did
not tell his family. So far nothing had been given away
to me, but I feared lest, as we got friendly and conver-
sation consequently easy, I might learn a good deal.
I therefore repeat that when I had my Garrett sitting
on November 8th 1927, I had met no one of the family,
except for the brief meeting with Miss France years ago.
Also that, by the time I took the Leonard sitting for
Tony Burman, on January 7th 1928, I had had only the
20 Nea Walker. [part
above-mentioned three talks with Mrs. Burman and Miss
France.
Report of a Sitting with Mrs. Leonard
I now proceed to describe the result of my sitting with
Mrs. Leonard on January 7tli 1928, in the light of the
annotations supplied by the Burman family. The full
record is filed at the 8.P.R., and I will quote here only
the more evidential portions. Unless I state points as
known to me, readers can be quite certain that the
material had no meaning for me nor for the medium.
But before summarising, I have a few points to note.
I had taken a Leonard sitting on December 2nd 1927
by proxy for someone who was prevented going at the
last moment ; at the very end of the sitting I had asked
the D.W. Group whether they were " in touch with a boy
called Tony whom I knoAV, not a child." The answer
was that they were, and I then asked if they could bring
him to my next Leonard sitting. Nothing else was said.
I specified " not a child " purposely, because I knew of
a child of that name and that in October he had
communicated, through Mrs. Leonard, to his mother, and
therefore I rather feared confusion. Curiously, the Christian
name Tony was never mentioned in the course of my
Leonard sitting, although an attempt was made to give
Tony Burman's surname.
Once more the Burmans did not know the date or
time of my sitting. I could attach meaning to very
httle of what Feda told me ; where I can, I say so. It
has been suggested to me that a list of the best points
might be helpful to a reader inexperienced in what con-
stitutes evidence. So I append one. But it must be
remembered that, although the following points are perhaps
the best evidence, they are drawn from a continuous
whole, and that many of these points are best read and
considered in their contexts.
PAGE
1. The position of a hand 22
2. A frustrated plan to go somewhere near water - 23, 24
3. A Family name Roy. See Point 15 also - - - 24
112] The Tony Burman Case. 21
PACE
4. All indication of a certcain leatlier motoring coat - 25
5. The effect of Tony's death on the mind of his
brother 25, 26
6. A bank-booii and Fmid - - - - - • -
26, 27
7. A particular road along which Tony enjoyed
" whizzing " - - - . . . . - 28 29
8. A reference to a i^hotograph of him riding at speed 29
9. Stamps --------- 31
10. A reference to his poisoned hand, with details not
in the conscious mind of his family in that
connexion - - - - . . . -
32, 33
11. Happy Saturday afternoons ----- 35
12. One particular Saturday afternoon spent " hammer-
ing a pole " into the ground ----- 35
13. The metal figure 35
14. A reference to an argument about a hat - - -
37
15. Followed by an attempt at the communicator's
smname. This name was known to the sitter
;
but it came in the correct context. And, the
other name given (No. 3, Roy), was also a
family name, and that too came in a correct
connexion and was unknown to the sitter - - 37
The sitting begins with the usual preliminary conver-
sation, greetings, etc., and presently Feda (Mrs. Leonard's
control), after alluding to a previous communicator,
speaks as follows :
—
But there's someone here,
not a lady, a man. ... He's
not an old man, but like
someone cutted off.
N. W. Please ask him to
come forward and speak to
me.
I think he was one of those
that went unexpectedly—it's
as if it had been rather a
shock to him and to other
people too.
Note hij N. W.
I knew this was true of
Tony Burman.
22 Nea Walker. [part
Some rather vague references to his activities just before
the accident and to his physical feehngs after it follow,
and Feda continues :
But, Mrs. Nea, I don't think he could really have suffered
at passing, he had gone unconscious quickly. He wanted me
very much to say that. '
Quickly unconscious,' he keeps on
saying.
On this, Mr. Stejihen Burman, his brother, who was
with him immediately after the accident and until the
ambulance came to remove him to the hospital, comments:
Quickly is a relative term. He was fully conscious and in
considerable pain for an hour—after which he was given
morphia.
The assertion therefore that he was quickly unconscious
and suffered Uttle was not true ;
but, curiously enough, he
persisted in it through all the channels he apparently used
for communication. I shall make some remarks on
possible reasons for this in my final section.
Feda then continues :
And do you know if he Note by N. W. September 1928.
would have had his hand in a Based on information supplied
peculiar position ?
btj the family.
I have a feeling he would Tony was not unconscious all
be holding something, or try- the time in hospital, although
ing to keep hold of something, most of it, and this probably
I want to keep hold of some- refers to his position lying
thing, but it is as if my hand there after the accident,
is in an awkward position. When his mother went on
There's something important the morning of the day of his
about this. His fingers was death, he spoke a word or
gripping this, and his thumb two. And she noticed that
sticking out a bit (indicating he had his right hand up above
upwards and slightly outwards his head, grasping a jmlley, to
from the angle of the wrist ease breathing. As he spoke,
N. W.). And he was pressing, she saw him take his hand
down ; the nurse took hold of
it and replaced it. No one is
112] The Tony
I feel as if he was rather
worried when he first got over.
He was worried about other
people here, and he wouldn't
be quite happy at first. He
wasn't, because he says there
were circumstances that were
particularly hard for people
who were left here.
He had what he would call
two groups of people. It's as
if there was a little lump of
people very much in one con-
dition, and somebody else he
was interested in and loved
rather difi:erently.
He thinks of two people,
and of a lady.
It's the lady specially he's
sending this message to. Had
she been away from him a
little while before he passed ?
I think so. Not quite togetlier
for a little while. But it
couldn't be helped, it wasn't
anybody's fault, just like con-
ditions. I think that that
would be just before he passed
over.
I get a feeling that he had
been thinking about water, of
\rman Case. 23
sure they noticed the position
of the thumb ;
but, if one
holds on to a bar in that
position, the thumb goes out-
wards automatically.
Note by Stephen Burmin.
Excejat for the circumstances
of his death itself, there were
only two minor cases where
his passing was inconvenient.
.One was that his mother was
in London at the time ; the
other was that he was taking
an important part in some
amateur theatricals due for
production in a few days. He
particularly mentioned the lat-
ter to me immediately after
the accident. S.F.B.
Notes by 3Iiss France.
His mother.
Yes, in London.
Note by N. W.
I know that his mother
was in London when the
accident occurred.
Note by Stephen Burman.
The first remark Tony made
24 Nea Walker. [part
going somewhere where there
would liave been water. He
hadn't been there ; but a httle
before he passed he had been
planning about going somewhere
where there was water. Not a
river, I think it looks too wide,
more like the sea.
when I reached him at the
time of the accident was that
he would not now be able to
go to Ogwen at Xmas for
climbing, as plaimed. At Og-
wen there is a large lake.
Almost immediately afterwards, and after giving a letter
B connected with the communicator, Feda says
:
Had he to go up and down ladders ? I had better be
careful. I get a feeling of him sometimes going up
something awfully steep, not ordinary stairs, but almost
straight uj). It was something he had been rather in the
habit of doing when he was here.
This made no sense to me at the time. It was later
annotated as "a reference to rock-climbing of which he
was very fond," and it may therefore have been suggested
by the thought of the proposed visit to Ogwen. As I
have already stated, Miss France had mentioned to me
his keenness on " Alpine CHmbing "
;
but, that conveyed
S7101V to me !
Feda presently mentions " an older man, passed over
"
who was " waiting for him and over-joyed to see him,
although he hadn't expected him so soon." This might
be Tony's maternal grandfather who had apparently been
described by Mrs. Garrett both to the Burmans and to
me. Immediately, though not actually stating that it
belongs to this " older man," Feda makes attempts at a
name
Eoy, Rory—not very long, Ruddy. I haven't got it
right.
This, I find, was pretty correct, a family name being
Roy : Tony's great-grandfather was Wilham Roy, his
grandmother Marion Roy, and his aunt is called Mabel
Agnes Roy France ; all these connexions are on the
mother's side.
112] The Tony Burman Case. 25
Then begin references to someone yonng,
A lie . . . that he's left. He's upsetted when he thinks
of having left the young man—that upset him as much as
anything . . . All he's saying is in a way for The Young
One—to help him to grapple with things. Because, in
some ways, it's been the end of the world for him.
I guessed that these references must be to his brother,
Stephen Burman, although Tony was the younger of the
two. I knew by this time that the death had been a great
blow to him. The family annotate that " there was only
18 months between them, they were devoted."
So far, my mind might again be the source of the
remarks ; but in this connexion—and I think it is worth
remarking upon the appositeness of .
the connexions in
which the evidence quite outside my knowledge occurs all
through this sitting—the record continues :
He's got something of mine Note by Stephen Burman.
that he very carefully fastens,
and buckles and unbucldes,
something with a strap. He
threads it through a buckle-
thing, and that he likes hav-
ing because it belonged to this
spirit.
A leather motoring coat,
with straps and buckle, which
was presented to me on my
21st birthday by Tony. It is
the only thing I have which
unfaihngly remmds me of him.
It was a most expensive pre-
sent which at the time he
could ill afford.
Mrs. Nea, this isn't a boy I
am talking to, a man, not a
child. This is a person what's
growed.
Don't forget about the strap
because that's rather important.
I think he wants
—
Feda—Oh dear !
This young one has been
terribly upset, nor ordinarily
upset, but he's been almost
afraid for him, afraid that it
Note by Stephen Burman.
These remarks are more or
less true.
26 Nea Walker. [part
might have an effect on his
mind. He's sensible and clever,
and all that, but he says
—
It's been such a blow. And,
he says—You know I knoiv
him, and I knoiv how he feels
things. He doesn't always let
other people know. But /
know how he feels things.
Contemporary Note by N. W.
[The next bit went straight
on, but it sounded to me as if
Tony himself was feeling he
couldn't stand saying any more
on this topic]
It is strange that what followed were references to a
Bank Book and a little special fund therein, which appear
to have been entirely wrong. The communicator indicates
that there has been discussion as to doing something with
it. The annotators say that Tony's bank book " was
surrendered for Probate purposes, and was not the subject
of any discussion." I understand that the only thing like
the bank book in colour and size, would be his passport,
which should have been returned to the Foreign Office for
cancellation, but which the family still have. It would be
interesting if one could trace the source of this error :
possibly—I only suggest this—Tony saw the passport and
heard some discussion about it, and mistook it for the
similar bank book—which made his mind turn to the idea
of the " fund." I have experience in other cases of
" their " seeing and hearing things in a rather distorted or
vague manner, and consequently drawing wrong conclu-
sions.
In submitting all this material to the Burmans, so that
they might check my statements and criticise my points,
I learn that :
Yes, there was a good deal of discussion as to whether it
(passport) should be surrendered to the Foreign Office ; but
nothing was done.
112] The Tony Burman Case. 27
Rather a striking corroboration of my surmise, for, in
annotating about the Bank Book, the Burmans had said
notliing about this discussion.
Having learnt this, I enquired abovit the " httle special
fund," and discovered that, at the time of his death, he
had a deposit account at his bank of £13 odd—money he
was saving up for another climbing hohday.^
I quote what follows the Bank Book incident verbatim
with the annotations.
What is it ? Wheels ? Wheels.
I don't know if he would be
interested in wheels, but he's
trying to build up something,
and I saw wheels. He was
pretending to, like run them
along.
I think it was something
like that he was trying to
show me earlier in the sitting.
I get machinery all mixed up
with it.
Mrs. Nea, did the wheels all
get mixed up ? I get a feeling
that something had happened
to the wheels.
Notes by Stephen Burman.
He was engaged in the
motor cycle trade, and was
intimately connected with
machinery.
He says—It wasn't the ivheels
that mattered, it was the rest
of it. He got so impatient !
He says—Perhaps something
did happen to the wheels, but
that doesn't matter. But I
feel he wanted me to notice
^ On reading proofs of this case and talking over points with her
husband, Mrs. Burman wrote to N. W., .June 10, 1929 :
—
" My husband now tells me he took Tony's Bank Book down to the
Works, and used it to jot down particulars as to what should be done
with the money due as Tony's life-insurance . . . There was no real
'
discussion '
except that Harvey and Stephen talked over how the
money should be divided and invested."
28
the A\heels. Tlie way that
they is setted, it looks lilvC
the Ijottom of a car ; but I
got to be careful, in case it's
the thing you calls a bicycle !
He pushed them along, and
then he suddenly stopped them,
and mixed them up. I think
it's something that happened,
something he was interested in
and concerned in. I think lie
must have some reason in
showing me this.
I see a very beautiful smooth
road, also. Oh, a beautiful
road ! All smooth and clear.
And I feel he is moving
something along on this beauti-
ful smooth clear road, and
going rather quick on it ! As
if whizzing a bit. Not just
the way C41adys (Mrs. Leonard)
takes them round ; but going
SHSHSH—flying round more
than walking round, Mrs. Nea!
Was the road a little bit
—
I told you it was smooth
—
but was it a tiny bit humpy ?
It's beautifully smooth, but
not quite flat, on the slope,
like that. (Feda indicated a
slant downwards away from
herself ; I coiUd not of course
know how the slant was
supposed to be in relation to
the road, and didn't like to
stop her to ask. N. W.)
He felt as if he was 'joying
this ! He felt so ^jZeasefZ and
so excited about it.
[part
Notes by Stej^hen Burman.
He was on a motor cycle at
the time, and when he hit the
car, the two wheels of the
motor cycle were jammed be-
tween the two wheels and
under the front of the car.
The accident.
This all refers to the road
on which the accident hap-
pened, Pakenham Road. This
is on a slope and looks very
smooth. Actiially it is full of
small transverse ridges, very
noticeable at speed.
We had to go along this
road every day on our way
to work. Usually unfre-
quented, it offers great oppor-
tunities for speed, the feeling
when descending the one hill
and commencing the ascent of
the next being particularly
exhilarating.
Nea Walker.
112] The Tony Burman Case. 29
At the side of it there was
somethmg like ledges, at the
side of the road. It can't be
a cliff, I think ! But something
sticking up on one side.
Not a cliff ! Nothing of the
kind at all, he says.
I think you call it some-
times like a ridge.
This wasn't something he had
done just once, I think he was
in the habit of doing it, loved
doing it, felt he was living
doing it.
Did you know he was
photographed doing it ?
Now B. comes up again,
that word he's been showing
me. <> Not a short word, several
letters. Not like " boy," lon-
ger than that. I can"t see
any more of the B. at the
moment.
Mrs. Nea, I feel he had
done this in this car, specially
enjoyed doing it, at two qtiite
dijfereyit places. Not near to
each other, rather a distance
apart.
He must have been doing
this only a little while before
he passed, because it's so
fresh in his memory, and he
thought of that when he first
woke. He was wondering
where he was, and pictures of
that began to come up.
^ A car, not a
Notes by Stephen Barman.
Hedges.
As I pointed out before, we
knew this road intimately.
We have an excellent photo-
graph, taken from a car, of
Tony riding at speed on his
motor cycle. [This photograph
is filed with the other records
of the case.]
Probably Burman, or Bike 1
Tony used the term.
In a car, yes. See below.
Cannot trace this.
Is he referring to the T.T.
Races at the Isle of Man
where he went May-June 1926
as a representative of the
Firm. M. F.
Later Note by Stephen Barman.
This now occurs to me :
About 6 months previously
Tony and I had gone on a
climbing expedition to Capel
Curig in a Morgan runabout ^
recently bought by me. It
was a most enjoyable run.
cycle. N. W.
30 Nea Walker. [part
He won't say he passed
over like that (snappmg her
fingers together), he didn't do
that, and it's because he didn't
do that, that he doesn't want
them to think that he was
suffering. It wasn't what he
calls 'stantaneous ; he says, he
didn't suffer so ; he would have
done if he had lived a little
bit longer. But I became
unconscious, and it saved me
from feeling.
I think there's something
there (head to shoulder again)
that he would have felt. He
felt a little cold feeling up
his back. The doctor would
know he would feel that. Not
a pain, but a numb, cold,
feeling going up his back. He
would feel this numbing more
than pain.
The car was a new acquisi-
tion, and the fact that we had
considerable trouble with the
car on the way back would
have remained in his memory.
Later we went in the same
car to climb in Derbyshire,
and had trouble again on the
return journey.
Notes by Stephen Burman.
I think this is all an effort
to save his family pain. There
is not the slightest doubt that
ho was in great pain until he
was given morphia, which was
not until an hour after the
accident.
These would have been his
sensations exactly.
After tliis Feda made an attempt to give the name
Burman, and got as far as Borrowman (I spell phone-
tically).
A reference then seems to be made to the famous watch
which had been mentioned via Mrs. Garrett (p. 14) and
to its telling the time correctly !
112] The Tony Burvian Case. 31
Is the young one going to
have a watch of his ? Because,
he says—He'll be pleased with
the watch. The works is all
right, to the watch, it tells
the time all right ; but why
does he want to alter the
opening and shutting part to
make it perfect ? For the
Young One, that should be
seen to. Tell him that, he
viiM be interested.
Note by N. W.
His mother had the 2/9
watch that was never right,
about which there was a
family joke (see p. 14).
In the Garrett sitting it
seems to be realised as a joke,
but, though it may have been
meant as a joke here, there is
no indication of it. I of
course knew about the watch
by this time, JVIrs. Burman
having told me about it when
discussing my sitting with Mi"s.
Garrett. I understand that
the sentence about the open-
ing and shutting part appears
to have no meaning.
Note by N. W.
Tony Burman was not inter-
ested in stamps, the annotators
say, though his brother (" the
young one ") had a large collec-
tion, with which Tony some-
times helped him.
I, on first seeing the anno-
tation, counted this as one of
the distinct errors to be noted.
But on looking at the record
again, there seems no reason
why the " he " of the stamp
jiaragraph should not be the
same as the " he " of the
previous sentence. ^ In fact
that is perhaps the more
natural reading and only es-
caped us because in my record
^ The interpretation of pronouns in passages in which the control,
e.g. Feda, speaks for the communicator, sometimes quoting him and
sometimes describing what ho says, is often rather doubtful.
And, oh, the stamps. He
had a good many.
He says he had them in
two places. He had some
that he put in a book where
they might ordinarily be kept,
but he had got a few more he
had forgotten about, and he
put them in an envelope, he
thinks. He's sru-e he did. So
he expects they will be found.
32 Nea Walker. [part
I had interpolated between
the two paragraphs a note
concerning my knowledge of
the 2/9 watch.
On realising this I made
more enquiries, and learnt that
when interesting stamps came
to the Works, Tony, or his
brother, put them in an enve-
lojDC and brought them home.
Also that odd stamps were
kept in an envelope at the
back of the stamp book. By
this time however, 9 months
later, there were none in the
envelope.
After this there are general remarks about psychic power
and about Tony's attempts to communicate. He empha-
sises the fact that his small amount of practical experience
while still on earth had been a great help to him.
There are then references to the family, and apparently,
in that connexion, again to Mrs. Burman's father. All
this was more general and less striking than the passages
I have selected for special comment. Presently, about the
middle of the sitting, occurs a reference to another
accident. Feda says :
A big H. comes up awfully close.
N. W. Yes ? [Thinking of a Hilda I had heard of
before. See p. 12 N. W.]
That comes uj) very near him.
(Feda—Try and say it again.)
Qualms, qualms. Nothing had happened the time
before. Nothing had happened the time before. I had
been in a very dangerous position a little while before I
passed over, which he had got over awfully easily. And
it might have been an awful thing ! He got out of that
awfully easily. Someone else didn't get out of it so lightly as
I did, but mine was really a miracle. It hurt someone else
112] The Tony Burman Case. 33
to a certain extent, but it was really wonderful that it
wasn't more serious.
[Note. Greek to me. N. W.]
Now, as I learnt only after the sittings referred to in
this paper were over, there was in a sealed envelope ^
prepared by Tony's family in view of this sitting, a
request that Tony would refer to a poisoned hand from
wdiich he had suffered about a, year before his death. It
was a very serious matter and might liave cost him his
hand and arm, and its occurrence was due to his own
carelessness in not wearing rubber gloves as warned to do
by his father. The passage just quoted, and another
considerably later in the sitting referring to gloves,^
naturally suggested to the Burman family that Tony was
trying to fulfil the request in the sealed envelope, in spite
of his not actually mentioning the nature of the accident,
and in spite of evident confusion in the pronouns. But
one thing seemed to them a definite error, for the poison-
ing of Tony's hand had hurt no one else. No one else
was involved. It occurred to me, however, on re-reading
the record after annotation by the family, that possibly
the thought of his own poisoned hand recalled to
Tony's mind some case known to him in which the
consequences of similar poisoning were much more serious
than in his own, and that a rather muddled reference to
this other case accounted for the apparent error. I was
therefore greatly interested when on reading this report
for the purposes of checking, the Burmans told me that
Tony did know of a similar case which had occurred at
his Works a year or two previously, in which a foreman
lost his finger. This had not previously occurred to them
as the explanation of Tony's remarks when they were
holding him and his accident only in their minds in
^ In replying (on Jan. 2nd 1928) to an enquiry from Miss France as to
whether I would take the sealed envelope with me to my sitting with
Mrs. Leonard, I had said no, and that I thought she could not " do more
for Tonjf than tell him you want him to meet me at Mrs. Leonard's
some time soonish." The envelope is now filed, unopened, with the Full
Report at the S.P.R. at the end of the Report of the Leonard sitting.
^ It was a shame I didn't wear the gloves, wasn't it ? Ought to
have made more use of them.
O
34 Net Walker. [part
annotating. So that my surmise, based purely on what
seemed possible from a study of the record, has turned
out to be correct. I leave it thus, as I feel it may be
more useful to see that the Burmans had not the poisoned
hand and all its connexions as clearly in mind as the
communicator himself ; while I knew nothing.
I may here digress in order to mention what seem to
be cross-correspondences between Miss France's automatic
script and the Leonard sitting we are dealing with. In
Miss France's script of Dec. 26th 1927, in which Tony
purported to say what he would tell me at my Leonard
sitting, occur the words " I will speak of the day when
I had my poisoned hand," a statement again referred to
in the automatic script of Jan. 1st 1928, with the addition
that he would try to " spring it " on me early in the
sitting. The above passages from Mrs. Leonard's sitting
quoted as apparently referring to the poisoned hand did
not occur early in the sitting. But, quite early in the
sitting (see above p. 22) and in connexion with his fatal
accident, Tony had referred to an awkward position of
his hand. This made Miss France think not only of the
position of the hand in hospital, but of the poisoned hand
which had to be held in an awkward position, upright
and with thumb stretching out owing to bandages. It is
of course possible that the two were associated in Tony's
mind and that the desire to speak early in the sitting of
the poisoned hand, led to the reference to the position of
the hand in hospital.
Towards the very end of my sitting with Mrs. Leonard,
I got my first opportunity of asking a question without
interrupting, and reminded Tony that I had heard his
people had put something in a sealed envelope to which
they wished him to refer. The reply was
—" I have made
an allusion to it." I asked " Which is the allusion ?
"
and Tony said " Rather early in the sitting ... I can't
get it now."
In Miss France's automatic script of Dec. 26th 1927, is
also stated " I will tell her [N. W.] about my ice
"
—
meaning his hobby of climbing (cf p. 8 above.)
112] The Tony B^i^'man Case. 35
None of this automatic script was seen by me till May
1928, so tliat cross-correspondence between it and my
Leonard sitting of January 7th 1928 were not due to my
conscious knowledge.
Returning to my account of my sitting with Mrs.
Leonard on January 7th 1928, I will select only the most
outstanding points in the rest of the sitting. The matter
I omit at this stage was not irrelevant or incorrect, simply
less striking than what I quote, which is strictly evi-
dential.
The first quotation relates to the Saturday afternoon
before Tony Burman's accident :
Saturday afternoons, happy.
Happy Saturdays.
N. W. I hope this is one
too, then.
It is. But it ivas when I
was here. But a pity I took
myself off sometimes. But
happy. Happy.
Row, Roby, Ro (oh-sound).
There's a name beginning with
R, to do with the Saturdays.
(Feda—V\^hat were you doing?
Vv^ere you putting up a post
or a pole at home ? Not long
before you passed over ?)
This is also connected
a Saturday afternoon.
with
He's
long
he's
Note by Stephen Burman.
He used to play Rugby
football every Saturday.
^
Notes by Miss France.
This refers to building a
bonfire and scarecrow on a
Saturday just about November
5th (the Saturday previous to
his accident.)
pretending he's got a
pole in his hand, and
trying to make it stick in the
ground, and it's wobbUng.
And he was getting cross with
it ! And hammering it into
the ground.
Quite true !
1 Notice Iiow Feda mis-hears apparently. I have several interesting
instances of this indication of jirocess in other cases. N. W.
36 Nea Walker. [PABT
Immediately after this came
And please will you ask
them if they have got some-
thing of his which is a figure,
a figure like a little statue.
Of course statue's the right
word in one sense and wrong
in another. If you say metal
statue—or figure is better, he
says.
The metal figure is leaning
forward.
And is there a spike on it ?
Something rather long and
pointed sticking out of it.
Then he says—Don't make
too much of the pointed part,
it's not like a needle.
Tapering a little, tapering.
the following :
Note by Miss France.
An enlargement of Tony was
made from a snapshot group.
This enlargement was cut
out and glued to a piece of
metal cut to the same shape
and about thick. The
height of the figure is approxi-
mately 9".
Tony is ste-p-ping forward in
the photo ; but the actual
figure stands upright.
The back of this " metal
figure " was painted black,
and a " tapering " support of
metal of the same thickness
was soldered to the back to
enable the figure to stand on
a manteliDiece.
See illustrations.
This is something that he
would have thought a lot of,
given a lot of thought to, and
been much mixed up with and
connected with when he was
here.
Note by N. W. Ajml 1928.
I learn that the original
" snap " from which the en-
largement was made, was taken
at a race-meeting which the
two brothers and the sister
attended together and enjoyed
very much. The figure there-
fore connects with " something
he gave a lot of thought to
and was much mixed up in
when here."
But, Tony knew nothing
of this method of dealing
with photographs, and the
figure was only made after his
death.
Photograph of
The ' Figure like a Statue "
" Metal Figure "
Back view Front view
1
The " spike on it. Something
rather long and pointed sticking
out of it . . . it's not Hke a
needle. Tapering a little, taper-
ing."
Note.
This " spike " is the prop which
enables the "metal figure" to
stand on a mantelpiece or else-
where like a photograph. It
could not stand on its own base,
having no breadth. N.W.
Tony is actually stepping for-
ivard, in the group from which
this photograph was enlarged
before being cut out and mounted
on metal as a figure by itself.
The metal figure stands straight,
but one lias the impression with
the original that Tony is coming
towards one.
It is not, however, a stereoscopic
photograph. This is merely the
effect of his "stance" at the
time. See print of the group
photo.
A copy of an enlargement of the lohotograph which shows
the forward movement better tlian the figure ; and also the
face better. Tony is the prominent figure, altogether, in the
group ; his prominence in a photo is mentioned in a sitting
the family took.
112] The Tony Burm.an Case. 37
The next item I shall mention is not so vivid as the
little " metal figure," but is worth quoting, partly because
it is a small point unknown, until after the sitting, to
the only two members of the Burman family whom I had
met. It introduces also the idea of an argument (about
wearing a hat), and immediately precedes the reference to
wearing " gloves " already quoted (page 33), about which
there had also been an argument, with the same person.
There had been an awiul Note by Miss France.
argument, not long before [his His father had told him
death] about what he was to that he must wear a hat (he
wear on his head. often went without one) when
Did he want a fiat hat ? travelling for the Firm. They
Something that would stick had an argument. Tony said
on. no hat would stick on in the
A lot of argument about car. This argument was un-
that, which he thinks will be known to me or to his
remembered. mother. It only occurred on
It was a shame I didn't the very day of the accident,
wear the gloves, wasn't it I
Ought to have made more use
of them—someone was saying
so a little while ago. They
were only sweet about it, not
blaming me.
An attempt at his name follows this :
Burry, Burry, Birry, Burry, [See p. 30 for an earlier
Bur, Bur. a name that's not attemjjt. N.W.]
Bro' but is Bur Burnam.
Some less interesting material followed ; and then Feda
says :
He's trying to tell me how pleased he is about you
coming and doing this for him.^ ... He says [the D.W.
Group] has helped him. They helped him early, quickly,
not just for to-day, but when he first passed over, they
1 He had told his aunt, in script, actually on the 7th January (time
not noted and not remembered), that he " would tliank me ; and on
anotlier occasion, he had said that he had asked my Group to help him.
38 Nea WalJcer. [part
collected liiiii. He doesn't mean that they knew he was
passing, it was afterwards . . . And he's got a link with
Bunny he says. Not Avith the others . . . It's not a
link with Bunny exactly, Init with people that Bunny is
interested in on the earth ... a link composed of people,
and you, and Bunny.
This I knew of, and had mentioned in my recorded
private request to the D.W. Group to help him, November
1926 (see above p. 4). All this about the Group was
known to me. but it came in. very naturally at the end
of the sitting and with no prompting from me.
As I have not quoted the whole report of this sitting,
I had better before leaving it give here a list, based on
the full report, of the points which were either (a) appar-
ently definitely wrong, or (b) have not been traced.
Wrong Points.
1. " Press Cuttings in his None,
pocket."
2. " Good at running and Never any good at either,
jumping." He boxed.
Not Traced.
1. " There was somewhere
else where he did it [motor-
cycling or motoring] JJp and
Down—Oh , Up and Down.
And there's again photographs
of that too."
There are apparently no
pliotographs of this. His bro-
ther does not pass it. The
only inJorrnation I got was
that Tony attended the T.T.
Races, to see to the Firm's
gear boxes, in use there. The
track is, I understand, hilly.
But Tony was not there to
race, though he had a machine
with him, and rode. This
follows soon after references
to his accident (p. 28) and to
his being " photographed doing
it." I suspect that Tony
112] The Tony Burman Case.
2. " Name beginning with E ."
'
3. The figure 7, in connexion
with what seems to be other-
wise correct of his christening
mug, except that it was not
large, as Feda said.
4. " Help someone through an
illness."
39
never rode sloA^ ly ! Vide the
argument about the hat. But
we cannot get at corrobora-
tions of this bit. N. W.
Not traced.
Not traced.
Only vaguely traced.
In a sitting during wliich Feda was talking hard for
two hours, practically altogether about a communicator
with whom I was unfamiliar, these are the only real
flaws ; and there was, as can be seen from the portions
quoted, much that was first-class from an evidential point
of view. Taking everything into consideration—relation-
ships, etc., etc. —I think it the best sitting I had ever
had up till that date.
Before seeing the annotations on the January Leonard
sitting, or meeting any of the Burman family again, I
tried once more, on the 3rd March 1928, through IVIi's.
Leonard. But, as regards evidence from Tony Burman,
this sitting was practically a failure. In places Tony
apparently broke through ; and there seems to have been
a rather good reference to his grandfather and another older
man, whom, from the apposite remarks about the kind of
regard he had for Tony, and the period at which he had
known him, the Burmans recognised as the Uncle Edwin
already referred to, both at their own sittings and to me
at Mi's. Garrett's. But there was nothing else of real
interest.
Possible reasons for this failure may be that
(a) I was very tired, and I believe that the sitter has
something to contribute at a sitting.^
(6) That perhaps some unrecognised communicator mono-
^ Curiovisly, on the veiy day of the sitting (I do not know the hour,
nor can I now learn it), I find that Tony purported to write through
40 Nea Walker. FPART
polised most of the sitting. My knowledge was too slight
for nie to be able to tell, at the time, whether Tony was
communicating or not. It was only afterwards that I
learnt that his family felt that someone else had got in,
and that they could only recognise bits here and there as
clear references to Tony.
(c) My third suggestion is that Tony himself may have
been less eager about the second experiment after the very
successful first one.
I will conclude my account of evidence for communi-
cation from Tony Burman with an extract from a sitting
of Miss France with Mrs. Dowden which explains itself.
Date, mh March 1928. Saturday.
The appointment was made by Miss France herself, by
letter, in lier own name.
Johannes (Mrs. Dowden's control), after explaining that
Tony wished to send messages to " Dad and Stephen
"
reported by automatic writing, that Tony said,
I want specially to send Steph a message.
I was watching him the otlier day.
He was thinking of me the otlier day.
He took up that lihotograph, you know the one I mean.
[There are two, one of them the one which also made the
metal figure : S.B. took that one, I learn. N. W.] and I
touched him on the liead. He knew it was me, ask him.
Miss France. Which day ?
Monday I think, but I can't be sure.
On Miss France's return to Birmingham next day,
Sunday 11th March, she asked Stephen Burman if lie had
" done anything with Tony's photo recently," specially
omitting to mention any day—Stephen Burman corro-
borates this omission. He replied that, on the previous
Monday evening, 5th March, he had picked up " the one
that always stands on the mantelpiece in the dining-room,"
Miss France, u propos of my sitting, the date of which might have been
any time in February or March, as far as Miss France knew -:
" I sliall bo there when she wants me . . . but I hope she will go
when fihe is quite fresh in her mind because I can help her much more
easily."
112] The Tony Burman Case. 41
and carried it into the next house to show the inmates,
there having been a discussion about a psychic photo-
graph. He did not say he had felt Tony's presence.
Miss France states that as far as she can remember, she
had not seen her nephew to speak to all that week ; and
is quite sure she knew nothing normally of the episode
in connexion with the photograph.
A FEW NOTES OF PERHAPS GENERAL INTEREST, MADE AS A
RESULT OF MY STUDY OF THE WHOLE MATERIAL, AND
WHILST THAT IS STILL FRESH IN MY MIND.
It is of course unwise to draw many inferences from a
single case. But if these notes are regarded as merely
suggestive, they may be useful when more material of a
similar kind is available for comparison ; and they are
certainly best written, and possibly read, while the case
is fresh. Moreover, this case does not stand alone, even
in my experience, for we have the White Case, recorded
in " The Bridge,'" with which to compare it. And I will
make that the starting point of these remarks, although
I have no intention of making a detailed comparison.
In the present effort to get evidence unknown to the
sitter, I should like to point to the fact that I was not
deahng with a i^air of lovers, as I was in the case of Mr.
and Mrs. White. One might in that case j)oint to the
strongly emotional link ; and I suppose it would be one's
duty to do so. In the case of Tony Burman, as far as
I can judge, having now met the family, there is very
httle trace of the kind of emotional sentiment which was
prominent between the Whites. Mrs. White was certainly
exceptional, and had, I felt, a temperament which must
have played a considerable part in leading to success.
In the case of Tony Burman there is none of that kind
of temperament, as far as I can tell. Family love there
is in abundance ; but everyday life holds its own ; tliere
is full interest in and occupation with the affairs of this
world. We are not deahng, on this side, with a solitary
figure bereft of all that made hfe here worth while. So
that that aspect, which to my mind was a point perhaps
42 Nea Walker. [part
to weigh against the evidence in the White Case, does not
enter into this case.
In regard to the two ostensible communicators, there
are two very obvious differences. Gwyther White was
about twenty years older than Tony Burman ;
and, he
had not the same happy-go-lucky type of mind, which
Tony seems to show.
Then there is the fact that I myself was full of other
work, and simj^ly took this little experiment " in my
stride," without devoting much thought or attention to it
beforehand. In consequence, I have felt pleased, and
rather surprised, at the success ; for I think that the
Leonard Sitting of 7th January 1928 is quite equal, from
the point of view of pure evidence, to anything in " The
Bridge."
Probably the confidence I have gained as a result of
experience of what was possible has helped. And jjerhaps
that balanced the fact that my feehngs of sympathy
were not being drawn upon to anything hke the same
extent.
At any rate, we have had in this case, as far as we
know them, different conditions and relations all round
—
in regard to the bereaved, in regard to the communicator,
and in regard to the sitter. Most certainly a difference
of type and degree of berea.vement—and it was on the
question of the degree that I felt anxious in i'esj)ect of
the White evidence.
After studying the full record of my sitting with Mrs.
Garrett on Nov. 8th 1927, with annotations, a point seems
to me to emerge which is perhaps worth noting, and which
might not be evident, unless one were very familiar with
all the details. I think that it is rather likely that the
various communicators may have been carrying on simul-
taneous conversations, independently, and, possibly, unknown
to each other ; the medium tapping now one communicator
now another, without realising the change. A good deal
of confusion and error would natura,lly result. Moreover,
in the course of my work in collecting the White records,
I had also noticed that it seemed possible that something
of this kind had occuri'ed on various occasions. So that
112] The Tony Burman Case. 43
I was interested to see somewhat the same effect at this
sitting with Mrs. Garrett.
Since meeting the Burman family, I have one or two
points to submit in regard to the communicator Tony.
It appears that he was an amateur comedian of very
marked abihty. During one sitting he seems to refer to
his exploits, and outsiders had commented Yery favourably
on his gifts in that direction. Now, in view of the
pictorial method in use at sittings, at times obviously,
perhaps often, when the sitter does not reahse it—has
this gift of Tony Burman's been an element in the
success achieved. In the course of the White Case, Feda
remarked that Gwyther White made a good communicator
because he was very clearheaded, knew v.'hat he meant to
say, and was not to be turned aside by doubts on the
part of sitter or control. Here, we perhaps have another
natural faculty influencing results, although not remarked
upon by the control. In each case that fact, if it be one,
should be an argument on the side of survival.
Another feature wliich may have contributed to Tony
Burman's success, is his gift for and practical experience
in psychic work while still alive here. This has been
alread}^ referred to.
Again, a characteristic which Tony's mother mentioned
to me, and which might have an adverse effect, was that
Tony was not a plodder : he would, I learnt, start things
keenly, but it was often his brother who finished them ofi
and did all the detail work. Tony had not patience in
that way, and was apt, when ahve, to lose interest after
the first successful experiment. Whether this has a
bearing on the failure at the second sitting with Mrs.
Leonard, I cannot say, since there were other contributory
factors. But I mention the characteristic as perhaps
of interest in that connexion.
So far as I have been able to learn, the above are the
characteristics most likely to have had a bearing on the
results.
In reference to the beginning of the Leonard Sitting of
January 7th 1928 (pp. 22, 30), the supposed Tony Burman
makes a special point, wliich he persists in through all the
44 Nea Walker. [PAKT
channels used—namely that he was " quickly unconscious
"
and suffered little. This, as already shown, is not, from
the jioint of view of the brother who was with him, ti'ue.
But the constant repetition on Tony's part (if we assume
that his personality is at the back of the communications)
has its interesting aspect, although said to be inexact, and
thus rather irritating to the brother, on whose mind the
impression of the suffering and the length of time before it
could be relieved, are vivid. I feel that these remarks may
have originated in one or two ways perhaps worth indi-
cating, for the sake of other people troubled by the same
kind of thing.
(a) General mediumistic stock in trade to comfort
relatives.
(b) The communicator's desire to relieve the agony in
his brother's mind about the period of suffering through
which he passed while the two waited, longingly, for the
ambulance.
(c) The fact that to Tony, now, the period may well
seem relatively short. We all know the experience of
forgetting pain as other experiences crowd out the memory.
Personally I do not feel that (a) explains Tony's per-
sistent remarks. I fancy that the tendency to improve
aspects is rather on the side of the communicators than
on Feda's—as far as my experience of Mrs. Leonard's
mediumship goes. But I do feel that it is not an argu-
ment against the identity of Tony, rather one in its
favour, that either for reason (6) or (c)—jjossibly partly
for both—he should reiterate this same statement so
continually. I knew nothing about it either way, at the
time, although I knew that he had died fairly soon after
the accident. And if the source of most of the material
in this record be the mind of some member of the
Burman family, then the constant insistence that Tony
did not suffer must surely have a different one.
In connexion with my references to the confusion
between the Bank Book and the PassjDort (j). 26), a few
general remarks, based on experience of aj^parent mistakes
the sources of which I happen to have been able to trace,
may be suggestive. I fancy that often we seem to "them"
112] The Tony Bumian Case. 45
quite as hazy and far away as " they " do to those of us
who have the faculty of feehng and seeing " them " just
a httle. Granting the possibihty of survival and communi
cation " they " have the advantage over us of having had
our experiences, and can therefore probably interpret
better what they see and hear than we can ; also " they
"
apj)ear to have more easy access to us than we to
'
' them
'
"
.
But, on neither side is the contact complete, or constant,
or always to the same degree. A friend of mine once
suggested a simile—viz., that it was, for us at any rate,
rather like looking at a stone at the bottom of a pool ;
if one coiild reach it and handle it, it would be found to
be real and there ; but the shape, size, colour, surround-
ings, etc., would be found to have been considerably
affected by the medium through which it was seen, and
by the various elements acting on that medium.
To my mind, to allow for such errors, provided one does
it cautiously and never dogmatises on that line, is not to
be uncritical but to be fair, and, as in the present in-
stance, possibly to open the way for a sound explanation
of some point. Tracing errors and their cause is com-
phcated so often by the fact that one does not know
what, in the mind of the medium, is impeding the
communicator. I discovered that fact in working with my
sister ;
for, in her case, I could often trace the reason why
she made certain mistakes, or " neard " certain words as
something rather different. In working with a strange
medium, one cannot know those reasons. I feel sure that
the more we can study that side of communication, the
more we shall understand, and the less we shall be able
to say bluntly " a bad shot, quite off the mark." And
so it came that I could not believe that the reference to
a bank book was a bit of communication without foun-
dation and entirely erroneous, although it was at first
counted by the Burmans, and in consequence by me, as a
definite error. We had not, I felt, the key to the form
in which it had been given, that was all. For one thing
it had not " come through "'
in the groping manner in
which, sometimes, material comes before the medium has
got on to the correct " wave length," if one may call it
46 Nea Walker. [part 112]
so. It had come quite definitely and crisply. There were
one or two other points in the same category
—
e.g. the
Stamps, the Poisoned Hand. And I reached the real
explanation of apparent incorrectness or confusion, in each
case, by trjdng to find out, from the context, and from
trying to imagine myself as communicator, how, if the
mistake had been made by the communicator, it had come
about. I did this without in the least knowing whether
it would clear matters up. But, as I have often found,
it did. And I think that this could frequently be done
if the investigator had patience, and, still more, if the
annotaters were as kind and long-suffering over the
resulting enquiries as I found the Burman family.
Jan. 17th 1929.
REPORT ON THE INVESTIGATION OF SOME
SITTINGS WITH MRS. WARREN ELLIOTT
By H. F. SALTMARSH.
{This paper rvas read in jxt^i at a Private Meeting of the
Society on March, (Uh, 1929.)
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
PAGE
Preface - - - 48
Report ----- 52
Introductory 52
S. P. Sittings. A. S. Sittings. Mrs. Elliott's Control,
Topsy. Method of Dealing with Records. Method
of Scoring. Scoring as Applied to Physical
Descriptions of Communicators. Other Modes of
Classification. Glossary of Terms Used.
I. Extracts from Records of Sittings illustrating
THE Type of Evidential Matter given.
1. The A. Case 66
2. Extracts from the X. Case - - - . 80
3. Other Extracts 87
IT. Statistics relating to the Whole Series of
Sittings - - 89
III. Some General Theoretical Considerations.
A. Psychological.
Section I. ------- 93
(a) Deliberate Invention. (6) Fishing.
(c) Groping, (dl) Name, number and similar
habits. (e) Dream. (/) Reminiscence.
(g) Deferred. Impression.
47
48 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
TAGE
Section II. The Effect of Various Influences 103
(a) The Sitter according to Type. (6) In-
fluence of the Notetaker. (c) Influence of
the Nature of the ReUc. (d) When the
same Article is used at two dift'erent Sittings,
(e) The Condition of the Medium as regards
health, external conditions, etc. (/) Trance
or Normal Conditions in Sittings.
Section III. Association of Topics - - 113
Section IV. Function of the Relic - - 114
Section V. Cause and Meaning of Intru-
sions 115
Section VI. Cause and Meaning of Cliches 117
Section VII. General Conclusions - - 119
B. Psychical Research.
Group I. Normal - - - - - - 145
Group II. Supernormal Faculty - - 150
Group III. Survivalist 172
Group IV. Mystical 180
Appendix - 183
Preface.
I HAVE thought it advisable to give as a preface to this
report an account of some control experiments undertaken
for the purpose of determining whether the results des-
cribed can reasonably be ascribed to chance alone.
These experiments have not yielded an unequivocal
result.
While it is possible to argue that, taken on the average,
the score for chance ^ is so much below that of the real,
sittings, that it can be excluded as a possible explanation,
on the other hand one may point to two or three
instances where chance has scored little below real, and
claim that the existence of these cases demonstrates that
chance could account for the i^henomena.
^ The meaning here given to the words " chance " and " real " will be
apparent wlien the method of experimentation is described below.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 49
The reason for giving these results in a preface is that
those who may adopt the view that chance alone is
responsible for the coincidences observed, and that super-
normal phenomena are absent, may be spared the labour
of reading the report. It would be a just cause for
complaint if any should be induced to expend a consider-
able amount of time and energy in considering the
discussion of a series of sittings, only to find at the end
that they contained nothing of positive value, in their opinion,
for psychical research.
The experiments were as follows :
Copies of the records of certain selected sittings were
sent to persons totally unconnected with the real sitters.
These persons were asked to imagine that the sittings
referred to themselves, and to annotate accordingly. Any
coincidences which might occur would, therefore, be attri-
butable to chance alone.
A system of scoring or marking was devised, and the
chance sittings were scored in exactly the same way as
the real. It was argued that if the score for the real
sittings was considerably in excess of that for chance,
when taken over a fair number of cases, it might be
claimed that chance as a possible explanation was excluded.
The figure for the ratio by which real should exceed
chance in order to afford comjjlete proof was fixed at
eight times.
A more detailed account of the methods adopted and
some discussion on certain points arising will be found in
the body of the report.
One or two of these points must be briefly mentioned
here.
Nearly all those who have participated in these control
experiments have had some experience in psychical
research, and it has been suggested that this would tend
to make them critical in annotating and thus reduce the
chance score.
Also, it is said that the chance annotator would not
feel the same interest in the sitting as the real sitter
and would thus be liable to overlook coincidences.
Further, where the real sitters have been convinced of
D
50 H. F. Salimarsh. [part ^
survival and of the identity of the ostensible communi- ]
cator, as was the case in a good many of the sittings
selected for this experiment, the real annotations would
tend to be more favourable than the chance.
The personal factor comes in very largely in the whole
investigation, some annotators exhibiting the " will to
believe " rather markedly, while others display an equally
strong " will to disbelieve."
It was to cover these and similar factors that the ratio
of superiority necessary to exclude chance was fixed as
high as eight times.
The choice was to some extent arbitrary, and it must
be left to the individual judgment of the reader whether
it be reasonable or not.
The first experiment was as follows :
The sittings all related to one ostensible communicator.
It was a case in which a young flying officer, who had
been killed in action, purported to communicate, and the
chance annotators were all persons who had suffered a
similar loss, that is to say, persons who had lost a son
or brother of about the same age and in somewhat similar
circumstances. The idea was to try to find out how much
of what was said of the ostensible communicator would
be true of other men of similar age and circumstances.
The figures are as follows :
There were six sets of chance annotations, comprising
fifty-three sittings in all.
Total possible score. Real score. Chance score.
5642 4107 = 72-8% 452 = 8%
The average score for real is thus nine times that for
chance. Taken by itself this might seem sufficiently great
to exclude chance, but there are two instances where the
chance scores were more nearly comparable with the real
than is shown by the average. For one the total
possible was 850, real score 533 = 64%, chance score
141 = 17%, giving a ratio of superiority over chance of
3- 8 ; in the other, total possible score 939, real score
757 = 80%, chance score 163 = 17%, giving a superiorit}- of
4- 6 times.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 51
The second experiment consisted of a number of sittings
selected at random from those which had given good
results for real annotators.
There were fifteen sets, comprising eighty-five sittings in all.
Total possible score. Real score. Chance score.
5554 3226 = 58-1% 487 = 8-75%
The average real score is thus 6-6 times greater than the
chance score. Taken by itself this might seem a superi-
ority sufficiently large to give a very good case for the
exclusion of chance, although it did not quite come up
to the standard fixed. There are, however, three sets of
five sittings each which show scores much higher than the
average, and in one case approaching the real score.
These are :
Total possible. Real score. Chance score.
(1) 374 195 = 52% 86 = 23%
(2) 353 218 = 59% 101=28%
(3) 404 185 = 46% 136 = 33%
Out of these fifteen sittings two only gave no chance
score at all, in one case the chance score was slightly in
excess of the real, in five it was only slightly less.
Now it might be said that these facts prove that it is
quite possible that chance alone may account for the
ajDparent veridicality of the statements, as in actua.1 fact
it has done in a fair number of instances.
On the other hand it may be argued that while one
knows antecedently that it is theoretically possible for
chance to give some scores comparable with the real
sittings, provided that a sufficient number of tests are
made, the real basis of comparison should be the average
score.
In a very large number of tests one would expect to
find a certain number of high scores by chance, scores,
in fact, which might be much greater than the real : the
question is whether the number of high real scores found
in this experiment is so much in excess of that which
might be expected from chance that some other cause of
this excess must be sought. Whether this be so or not
must be left to the individual judgment of the reader.
52 H. F. SaUmarsh. [part
REPORT.
Introductory.
Thanks to the generosity of an anonymous donor, it was
possible to arrange for a continued series of sittings with
a trance medium under conditions which permitted the
hope that some advance in our Ivuowledge of the pheno-
mena might be attained.
The Society was fortunate enough to persuade Mrs.
Warren Elliott, the well-known medium, to agree to give
three sittings per week over a period of one year under
the conditions desired, and it is only fitting that this
rejiort should commence with an expression of appreciation
of the manner in which Mrs. Elliott has performed her
part in the experiment.
She has been most assiduous to co-operate in every
way possible to her, and has cheerfullj'^ submitted to
conditions which, particularly in one class of sitting, must
have been extremely trying.
As to the nature and quality of her mediumistic gifts
nothing need be said at this opening stage. The mean-
ing and interpretation of the results and the deductions
to be drawn therefrom will be discussed later.
The gratitude of the Society and all others interested
in the work of Psychical Research is due, therefore, in
the first place to the generous donor, who has made the
exjieriment possible, and in the second place to Mrs.
Warren Elliott, whose co-operation has enabled the Society
to carry it out.
The primary object of the experiment was to attempt
to throw some light on the psychological mechanism of
trance mediumship.
At the present stage of Psychical Research there is
available an immense amount of material, records of
sittings, accounts of spontaneous phenomena, evidence of
various kinds of supernormal knowledge, much of which
is of unexceptionable quality ; there is also no lack of
hypotheses put forward to exjilain the facts, but so far
our knowledge of the psychological mechanism involved is
small. It seems fairly oljvious that until this defect is
112J Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 53
remedied the progress of Psychical Research, as a science,
can hardly be other tlian slow and uncertain.
The accumulation of evidence is, of course, a matter
of great importance ; it is impossible to have too much,
but an understanding of the psychological conditions is
an indispensable pre-requisite to the fruitful employment
of that evidence.
The sittings described in this pager are of two types
:
viz. the Sitter Present, known as S.P. sittings, and the
Absent Sitter, called A.S. sittings.
S.P. Sittings.
In the first the sitter is present at the sitting with a
shorthand writer supplied by the Society, who takes
down all that is said, both by the medium and by the
sitter. Every care is taken to preserve the anonymity of
the sitter, and this, so far as can be ascertained, has
been successful in nearly every case. There are only two
instances in which Mrs. Elliott has normally known the
identity of the sitter. 1st. A single sitting with Miss
Newton, undertaken as a special ex^oeriment. 2nd. A
series of sittings with the Rev. W. S. Irving, who, having
previously had several private sittings with Mrs. Elliott,
had become known to her by name, though originally
introduced under a pseudonym.
The notetakers were, with one exception, also introduced
under pseudonyms, though, of course, Mrs. Elliott was aware
that they were connected with the Society. The one exception
was Dr. Woolley who took notes in a few instances.
The various notetakers have performed their laborious
task in a most praiseworthy fashion, the notes are
extremely full and clear, care has been taken to record
everything said, both by the medium and the sitter, and
to note all relevant details.
As is customary with Mrs. Elliott, the sitter handed
her a relic, that is to say some object associated with the
deceased person concerning whom it was hoped to obtain
communications.
In a few cases this practice was varied in order to try
special experiments : these will be referred to later.
54 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
_
The second type of sittmg, i.e. the Absent Sitter
sittings, constitute a new departure in Psychical Research,
and it is from these that the most valuable evidence is
obtained.
For these sittings a number of persons were invited to
send to the Society relics associated with a deceased
relative or friend, and precautions were taken to prevent
any normal knowledge from reaching anyone concerned in
the sitting, either the medium, the notetaker or anyone else.
The relics were sent to an officer of the Society. They were
then enclosed in separate envelopes, numbered, and the
numbers entered in a book against the name of the
sender. The various packages were then placed in a
locked cupboard. On the morning of a sitting the note-
taker, who went alone to the medium, was allowed to
select at random a package from those in the cupboard.
In Miss Newton's own words, "The majority of the
relics were sent to me open, and I did them up and
sealed them, and handed them to Mr. Dingwall, who
numbered them and entered the number in a' book
against the name of the sender, of which he was informed
by me. . . . After the packets had been numbered they
were put into the locked cupboard, and neither Mr.
Dmgwall nor I saw them again until they had been
used ;
the notetaker bringing back and handing to me
the used packet."
A second relic was taken in reserve, to be used if the
first failed to give any result.
Thus the senders of the relics had knowledge of the
identity of the person to whom they referred, but did not
know when they were being used. The Officer of the
Society who received them knew the name of the sender,
and in some cases might have known or guessed the
name of the person with whom the object was associated,
but did not know when any particular relic was being
used. The notetaker would know the number of the
relic, but, not having had access to the book, would not
know to whom the number referred.
i
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 55
The medium would, of course, possess no normal know-
ledge whatsoever.
In a good many cases the package contaming the relic
was not opened by the medium, and there is nothing in
the sittings to indicate that this factor had any deter-
mining influence on the quality of the evidence given,
that is to say, evidence of as good a quality has been
given in cases when the package has been unopened as
in those where it has been opened.
Mrs. Elliott's Control, Topsy.
Ill all cases of S.P. sittings, and in the majority of the
A.S., the medium went into trance, and the communica-
tion was through her control, Topsy ; in some, however,
of the A.S. sittings the medium has remained in her
normal state and has dictated the communications to the
notetaker. There are one or two instances where the
relic was left with the medium, who later on dictated her
impi'essions to her husband and handed the record to
the notetaker at the next sitting.
No difference in the quality of the communications
given by these different methods can be detected.
In the trance sittings the characteristic child-like diction
of Topsy is always employed. It nmst be admitted that
this is not altogether convincing ; a child who would
talk as Topsy does, and make the grammatical mistakes
that she makes, would hardly know the meaning of
many of the words she employs, e.g. " trivialities,"
"inspiration," "over-enthusiastic," "mental distance be-
tween them."
She is, on the whole, consistent in her manner of
speaking, but some of the errors of pronunciation and
grammar appear hardly natural. This remark is not
intended as a criticism, nor could it be reasonably taken
as such, for Topsy, whatever she may be, cannot be
considered as psychologically comparable to a normal
child. If, as assumed by spiritistic hypothesis, she is
an independent entity who acts simply as a mouthpiece
for others, then it may be supposed that she would
occasionally use words borrowed from the more mature
56 H. F. SaUmarsh. [part
intelligences whose messages she is transmitting. On the
alternative hypothesis, i.e. that Topsy is a personifica-
tion of some stratiim of the subconscious mind of the
medium, the difficulty does not lie in the employment of
words not natural to a child, hut in the assumption of
a childish personality. This, however, appears to be a
quite usual phenomenon with trance mediums, and various
reasons can be suggested for it, none of which need be
here discussed.
Whatever Topsy's defects in grammar and pronuncia-
tion may be, she certainly possesses the faculty of gra,phic
description. She frequently sums up in a few words a
situation which would take perhaps two or three sentences
in more orthodox grammatical style to elucidate. For
example, " Gives feeling doesn't feel ill and yet him ill
for a long time," seems to describe accurately the con-
dition of a man who had been confined to an invalid
chair for some years owing to an accidental injury.
Her descriptions of character are particularly good.
So far as can be judged from the records of the sittings
a large part of the material appears to come to both
Topsy and Mrs. Elliott in her normal condition in the
form of visual impressions, although there is a certain
amount of what apj^ears to be auditory. This point will
come in for full discussion later.
Method of dealing ivith reeords.
The methods adopted for dealing with the material
were as follows :
After the records had been annotated by the sitter or
contributor of the relic, the various paragrajjhs or separate
items were numbered, each record being kej)t in a separate
big envelope on the front of which a complete list of
the separate items and their numbers is written. By
this system any reference can readily be found if its
number is known.
On the backs of the envelopes are endorsed the various
scores for the sitting, also any remarks or notes.
When the records were being examined for the purpose of
doing this work it was noticed that certain topics tended
112] Sittings with BIrs. Warren Elliott. 57
to repeat themselves with what seemed to be abnormal
frequency. For example, a large number of ostensible
communicators were said to have had an injury to the
leg or foot ; a ring with black and an animal standing
up on it was also mentioned several times. These topics
are called cliches.
A selection of about one hundred cliches was made,
and the entire set of sittings was gone through and each
mention entered in a card index.
In the same way all names and initials given were
indexed.
Where a sitter or group of sitters has had more than
one sitting the records were collected into a sub -case,
and this sub-case was treated separately. A complete
index of every statement or item of information given
was made for each sub-case : by this means all corres-
pondence between the sittings was noted.
A separate preliminary report on each sub-case was
drawn up and kept for reference.
Some of the sub-cases were, however, of so poor a
nature from various causes that this detailed work was
not undertaken in connection with them.
The primary problem in all researches of this kind is
to find some basis of comparison, some method of estimat-
ing the relative quality of the evidence. This is necessary
for many purposes, e.g. to determine whether trance or
normal sittings give better results, whether the envelope
containing the relic remaining unopened by the medium
affects the evidence, whether the nature of the relic has
any effect on the communications, to compare the quality
of the S.P. and the A.S. sittings, and, finally, to provide
a basis of comparison with the result of pure chance.
The methods adopted for this last and most important
comparison have been briefly referred to in the preface,
and will be explained in more detail later.
It must he em-phasised that the scores arrived at are not to be
considered as giving the absolute value of any sitting, they are for
purposes of comparison only. This point is of the utmost
importance, and must constantly be borne in mind in order
to avoid misapprehension. In almost all cases the scores
58 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
allottetl show a far higher figure than could be considered as
representing the real evidential value. Thus, for example,
there are several S.P. sittings with scores of over 90% ; were
this taken to represent the absolute value we might reason-
ably suppose that they aii'orded almost conclusive proof of
the identity of the ostensible communicator, etc., but this
is not the case ; the high score may be due almost entirely
to a set of commonjilace or vague statements which would
be probably true of most sitters.
The problem of scoring is one of very great difficulty,
the statements made are generally vague and indefinite,
it is as a rule impossible for the annotator to answer
with a plain " Yes " or " No." The closest analogy
seems to be the marking of examination paj^ers on some
literary subject where differences of opinion, individual
idiosyncracy, nuances of meaning, all comjilicate the
matter. It is impossible to eliminate completely the
personal factor in both the amiotator and the scorer.
The ideal method would be to have each record scored
independently by several persons, who would be provided
with a set of rules for their guidance ; a discussion be-
tween them of each disputed j^oint would in all probability
then result in some compromise, and the average of the
final scores might be taken as a fairly reliable estimate.
This, however, would entail an enormous amount of
labour, and it has not been found possible to undertake
it.
The scoring in this exj)eriment has been done by one
person, i.e. the writer of this report, and he has attempted
to do the best possible in the circumstances by re-
vision at various intervals of time and by striving to
preserve the same mental attitude in all cases. The sole
criterion adopted in scoring an item as veridical is, " Can
this be said to be veridical from the information given
by the annotator ?
" As far as possible the critical
faculty has been suspended altogether, the only exception
being the classification of the statements under the classes
of " vague," " definite," or " characteristic," and the
small deductions made from the total score for " all
vague." (These terms will be explained presently.)
112] Sittings ivith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 59
This attitude was adopted in order to reduce to the
minimum the factor of individual judgment on the jjart
of the scorer ; if he had attempted to assign to each
item its evidential value from the point of view of some
particular theory or hypothesis, the utility of the scores
as a basis of comparison would be seriously vitiated, they
would have been tinctured with his personal predilections
and idiosyncracies. The scorer has had the advantage of
having had to annotate some sittings with articles contri-
buted by himself, and this made the difference in mental
attitude very apparent.
Method of Scoring.
The method of scoring adopted was as follows. The
various statements were classified under the three headings:
1st. Vague or commonj)lace statements, that is to say,
statements which might be true of a very large number
of people ;
e.g. a communicator is described as fairly
tall, blue or blue-grey eyes, and so on, lived in the
country or near water, used to write a lot, sitter was
buying boots, was going for a holiday, ordinary names,
etc.
2nd. Definite statements, i.e. statements which though
possibly true of a good number of people are not of so
commonplace a nature as those of the first class ;
e.g.
communicator described as " though very gentle, he was
frightfully daring," " used to fly in the air," " sitter
sleeps in a bed too short for her," " Sitter had a quarrel
with his father," etc.
3rd. Characteristic statements, i.e. statements which are
so characteristic that the probability of being true by
chance is practically negligible. These are very scarce.
Number 1 or " V " statements are by far the most
num^erous ;
they count 1.
Number 2 or " D " statements occur as a rule about
five or six times in a good sitting ;
they count 5.
Number 3 or " C " statements count 20.
The total possible and the actual scores are computed
by addition and the percentage worked out. When the
number of D or C statements is very small a deduction
GO H. F. SaUmarsh.
\H made from the iictiial scoix; based on an estimate of
the general character of the sitting ; this deduction is
rarely more than about 10%, except where the total
possible score is very small. In the figures given it
will he observed that there is a gross and a net score,
the net score is after the deduction, if any, has been
made.
Where a V statement is not only not true but definitely
opposed to the truth, e.g. where a person is described as
tall when, in fact, he was particularly short, a minus
score is given ; where a D statement is pa,rtially true, 2
is allowed in actual score ; in the total jjossible score the full
amount, 5, is counted.
As above remarked, the total possible and the actual
scores are computed by addition. This is, of course,
not strictly correct. An example will make this clear.
If out of 100 statements, 99 V and ID, 49 of the
V statements and the D statement are found to be
veridical, this would give a score of 54 out of a possible
104, or 51-9%.
But if, out of these 50 veridical statements, 5 were
D statements and 45 were V, this would give a score
of 70 out of a possible 120, or 58-3%.
It is clear that the addition of four more definite
statements add far more to the real value than is indi-
cated by the increase of G-4%.
To arrive at the correct absolute value by scoring would,
assuming it to ])e possible, entail an enormous mass of calcu-
lation. It is only with such phenomena as telepathic experi-
ments with cards, where the veridicalitj^ can be accurately
gauged, that mathematically correct values can readily be
obtained. However, a suggestion for a more accurate method
will be made in an appendix. This unavoidable error is to
some V ry small extent compensated for by the deductions
made for " all vague " sittings.
However, as the scores are not intended to be a gauge
of the absolute value, but are used for purposes of com-
parison only, the point may be passed over : the essential
thing is that the same methods should be used in all
cases. The most important of these comparisons is that
112] Sittings ivith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 61
with pure chance, and an account of some control exjierinients
designed to assist this comparison has been given in the
preface.
A question arose in connection with the selection of the
sittings to be used for the second of these control ex-
periments. There were two alternatives ojDen : 1st, to
select sittings entirely at random ;
2nd, to select those
which had proved to contain a fair amount of veridical
matter for the actual sitter.
Strictly speaking, the first of these alternatives is the
correct procedure, but to make the test a fair one a
very lai'ge number of records would have to be treated ;
it was not found possible to obtain a sufficient number
of records and pseudo-annotators, so the second alternative
was adopted. It is obvious that only A.S. sittings could
be used in this experiment as the conditions of an S.P.
sitting, viz. the presence of the sitter and the interchange
of remarks between the sitter and the medium, could
not be duplicated in a pseudo-sitting.
Scoring as applied to physical descriptions of communicators.
One of the most prominent features of all trance
sittings is, of course, the physical descriptions of the
ostensible communicators. In very few cases are these
sufficiently definite to possess any considerable evidential
value, their chief use is to provide means of prima-facie
recognition ;
however, it seemed possible that, in sjDite of
their general vagueness, they might present some evidence
of identity if it could be shown that their general veridi-
cality was much in excess of chance. To test this a
further experiment was devised.
A rather more elaborate system of scoring was adopted.
The various items of the descriptions, which in Topsy's
case are more or less standardized, were classified under
five headings, viz. General Congruity, Partial Congruity,
Not Inconsistent, Inconsistent, and Not Mentioned. All
the descriptions which were recognised by the annotator
as probably appljang to one ostensible communicator were
collated and scored in this fashion and percentages worked
out.
62 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
A number of records were selected at random by draw-
ing the envelopes containing them from the pile, and the
descrijitions therein collated and scored in the same way.
Where there was more than one description of ostensible
communicators in any sitting, that which corresponded
most nearly to those already collated was selected, thus
favouring the chance score to some extent.
A comparison of the percentages thus obtained affords
a gauge of the value of physical descriptions.
The chance score for physical descriptions thus obtained,
as compared with the actual score, is considerably higher
than in the other chance experiments with whole sittings.
This is only what might have been expected. In the
case of "whole" sittings the number of statements which
would be veridical for any sitter is undoubtedly large,
but the total possible number of such statements, both
veridical and non-veridical, is practically unlimited : it
includes everything which could possibly be said about
human affairs.
On the other hand, the total possible in physical des-
criptions is comparatively small. There are at most only
about eighteen or twenty items in a physical description,
for many of which there are only three or four possi-
bilities, e.g. a man can be described as tall, fairly tall,
medium or short, which gives a three-to-one probability
against being correct by pure chance. The maximum
number for any item would not exceed fifteen or twenty
possibilities. If the average be taken at ten, it would
be a fair estimate. Thus the average probability of any
item being correct by pure chance is one in ten, while
for the other statements in the whole sittings the j)roba-
bility would be very small.
It must be borne in mind that these scores do not
pretend to be any gauge of absolute value. This has
been said before, but it cannot be too strongly insisted
upon. The totals are arrived at by addition, whereas to
estimate the probability for any set of statements the
total should be a function of the product of the separate
chances. Averages of probability can be employed solely
as a rough method of comparison.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 63
Although physical descriptions, taken by themselves,
have little evidential value, except in those rare cases
where some peculiar characteristic feature is mentioned,
they may possess some importance when combined with
other veridical statements.
For example, a description of a young man as tall,
fairly broad, fair complexion, oval face, blue eyes, well-
marked eyebrows, nose of medium length, fair hair and
small moustache, is by itself, even if correct, of little
value—there are some millions of boys whom the descrip-
tion would fit ; but if it be said that this young man
was the elder of two boys the field is narrowed some-
what ; if it be further said that he was very fond of
music it is further restricted, for out of the number of
boys of this description who were the elder of two boys
not all would be fond of music ; if it goes on and further
describes him as being as gentle as a girl yet wonderfully
daring, etc., etc., and also mentions incidents in his past
and details of present happenings among his family ana
friends, then the probability of all this arising from pure
chance is comparatively small.
The figures giving the results of these various control
experients are given elsewhere. Some further remarks
will be found on page 145 et seq.
Other modes of classification.
In view of the various hypotheses which have been put
forward from time to time to account for the apparently
supernormal knowledge in mediumistic communications,
further kinds of statistics have been collated. In sittings
which have been selected for the purpose the statements
have been classified under the headings of Ante-mortem
or A.M., these being statements which purport to refer
to events or conditions prior to the death of the ostensible
communicator ; Post-mortem or P.M., i.e. statements
referring to events or conditions subsequent to his death.
A further subdivision has been made, each class of
statement has been divided into what are called physical
or P. events or conditions and non-physical or N.P. events
or conditions. The criterion used in this classification was
64 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
as follows :
" Had an observer arrived suddenly on the
scene, could he have obtained knowledge of this fact ?
"
If he could have done so, it is classed as a physical
event ; if not, as a non-physical. The physical events
or conditions are, therefore, mainly of a material nature,
overt actions and obvious conditions ; the non-physical
are chiefly mental states, emotions, thoughts, feelings not
patently expressed, relations between the actors other
than physical or family relations, and so on.
From the indefinite and rather nebulous nature of the
subject-matter these classifications are, of necessity, some-
what rough ; it is frequently very difficult to decide to
which class an item should belong. However, as the
number dealt with is comparatively large, and the results
intended solely as approximate estimates, the unavoidable
errors are not such as to deprive the statistics of their
usefulness. Mathematical accuracy is unobtainable and,
as will appear from the subsequent discussion on the
bearing of the figures on the question of theory, it is not
indispensable.
Proper names, initials and physical descriptions are not
included in these statistics.
There is one further classification. The non-physical
statements have been classified under the heading of those
relating to the ostensible communicator and those relating
to the sitter.
The following is a glossary of the sjiecial terms and
signs used.
Glossary of terms used.
Trance slUinr/. When the medium goes into trance and
the communicated matter is given through Topsy.
Normal silting. When tlie medium does not go into trance
but s])eaks in her normal manner.
A.i^. LiiUiiuj or Absent Sitter sitting. A sitting where the
notetakcr <nnd tlie medium are the only persons present. The
sitter is rejjresented by a relic.
S.P. Sitting or Siller Present silling. A sitting where the
sitter aitencls hi the usual way. It is customary with Mrs.
Elliott for tlie sitter to liand her a relic.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 65
Intrusion Sitting. An A.S. sitting where communications
appear to come from a recognisable communicator vxnconnected.
with the rehc or the contributor thereof or the notetaker.
Pseudo-intrusion Sitting. A sitting, either A.S. or S.P.,
where the communications purport to come from an ostensible
communicator unconnected with the relic but connected with
the notetaker. These are analogous to the ordinary S.P.
sitting.
Deferred impression. A statement which appears to be
derived from an impression received by the medium at an
earlier sitting, but which has remained latent.
Reminiscence. A statement which appears to be derived
from the memory of an impression received and communicated
at an earlier sitting.
Total possible. The amount of the score for a sitting if
every statement made had been veridical. Arrived at by
addition of the various marks for the separate items.
Gross score. The amount of the score for a sitting prior
to any deduction for vagueness. Arrived at by addition.
Net score. The final score for a sitting, i.e. the gross score
less the amount, if any, deducted for vagueness, etc.
Vague statement. Sign V. A statement which is of a
vague or commonplace nature, likely to be true of a large
number of persons.
Definite statement. Sign D. A statement, that, while possibly
true for a number of persons, is not so commonplace as to
be as lilcely to be true as not.
Characteristic statements. Sign C. A statement of such a
nature as to be unlikely to be true by pure chance.
Ante-mortem staternent. Sign A.M. A statement referring to
an event or condition prior to the death of the assumed
communicator.
Post-mortem statement. Sign P.M. A statement referring to
an event or condition subsequent to the death of the assumed
communicator.
Physical statement. Sign P. A statement referring to a
physical or material event or condition.
Non-physical statement. Sign N.P. A statement referring to
a non-physical event or condition, usually a mental event or
condition.
66 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
Sitter. Sign S. A person who actually attends a sitting.
The sitter is also the annotator in almost all cases.
Contributor. A person who has contributed a relic for an
A.S. sitting. The contributor annotates the record.
Communicator. Sign C. A deceased person who is recog-
nised by the sitter or annotator, either from the physical
description or otherwise, and assumed to be the ostensible
communicator.
Pseudo-contributor or Pseuclo-annotator. A person who has
annotated a sitting with which he has no connection in order
to take part in the control experiment undertaken to ascertain
the possibility of correspondences by pure chance.
As an example of the use of signs a statement might be
classed as S.P., A.M., N.P., C. This would mean a statement
in a sitter-present sitting referring to a non-physical event or
condition happening prior to the death of the ostensible com-
municator and relating to him.
Sittings with ]VIrs. Leonard are marked L.
„ „ Mrs. Dowdall ,, Dl.
„ ,, Mrs. Barnstaple ,, B.
,, „ Miss Bazett ,, Bt.
These sittings are introduced solely for the purpose of noting
correspondences
.
I.
Extracts from Records of Sittings Illustrating the
Type of Evidential Matter Given. •
For the purpose of rendering these extracts more intel-
ligible, and presenting them in the form of a continuous
narrative, a number of separate cases have been extracted,
each case comprising all the sittings relating to one sitter
or set of sitters.
The references are to the number of the sitting and its
class.
1. The A Case.
The first case from which extracts will be quoted is
one in which there are in all thirteen S.P. and seven A.S.
sittings of the ordinary type ; there are also six Intrusion
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 67
sittings, i.e. sittings with a relic contributed by some one
connected with this group of sitters, in which the chief
communicator of the group appears to intrude sufficiently
to be recognised and to give veridical communications.
This communicator is here called A. He was born in
America on 2nd August, 1887, was taken to London
when a child of fifteen months, and lived there until he
was eleven years of age. He was then on the Continent
in various countries for a couple of years. In 1902 the
family returned to London for a year, after which they
went back to America. They lived in a house which
they had built on the slope of Mount Tamalpais over-
looking the Bay of San Francisco. After the earthquake
of 1908 the family returned to London, and A. never
left England again until he went to France as Second-
Lieutenant in the R.W. Surreys in November 1916.
He had been in the University O.T.C. whilst at Trinity
College, Oxford.
He became a naturalised British subject in order that
he might join the British Army.
He was attached to the Flying Corps, and trained at
various centres, receiving his Observer's Wing in November
1916.
As above stated he went immediately to the French
front, and had six months' continuous service there. In
June 1917 he started his training as a pilot, and obtained
his wings in April 1918. In June of that year he went
out to Italy with the 34th Squadron R.A.r. On 23rd
July he was out on a reconnaissance with four other
aeroplanes. On the return journey his machine dropped
behind the rest ; it was thought that he probably did so
to engage in a fight with an enemy aeroplane. He failed
to return, and a note was subsequently received from the
Austrians saying that his machine had been shot down
and both occupants killed.
His body is buried in the British Cemetery at Tezze di
Piave.
The principal sitters are his Mother and Father and a
friend of theirs, Miss H. ; his younger brother, J—, had
one S.P. sitting.
68 H. F. Saltmarsh. [PABT
Miss H.'s connection with the case requires explanation.
She has been a close friend of A.'s mother for some years,
but they were not acquainted until after his death.
Before the beginning of this experiment they had
held a number of private sittings with the Ouija board
among themselves at which A. and Miss H.'s father
purported to communicate. Her connection with A.,
therefore, is entirely posthumous—they never met in the
flesh.
Physical Descriptions of A.
The following is a comparison of the physical descrip-
tion of A. given by his Mother and as given in the
sittings. The figures in brackets give the total number
of sittings of both types in which the item is given.
Actual.
Build. Thin.
Fairly broad.
Square shoulders.
Height. 5 ft. 10 in. to
5 ft. 11 in.
Face. Nearly oval.
Long.
Com.2-)lexion. Fair.
Clear skin.
Eyebrows. Well marked.
Forehead. Medium height.
Broad.
Sloping back a
little.
Nose. Fairly big.
Thin.
Mouth. Not very wide.
Rather full lips.
Chin. Rather square
jaw.
Longish.
Sittings.
Tliin (11).
Broad (8). Not very broad (4).
Square shoulders (5).
Tall (11). Fairly tall (8).
Oval or nearly oval (10).
Squarish (3). Fairly broad (3).
Longish (2).
Fair (4).
Clear or very good (6).
Well marked (15). Not very
well marked (2).
Fairly high (13). High (6).
Broad (9). Not very broad (1).
Slopes back a little (2).
Not very big (11). Incorrect (2).
Thin (2). Small (2). Incorrect (2).
Not very wide (4). Wide (2).
Full lips (4).
Square (4). Rather wide (1).
Round (1).
Long (4).
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 69
Cheels. Rather high
cheek bones.
Cheeks little
sunken.
Hair. Fair, brown.
Thick.
Darkened with
grease or some-
thing on it.
Moustache. Small.
Fair.
Age. 21. Twenty-one.
Eyes. Indeterminate
colour, grey
with brown
flecks.
High cheek bones (7).
Little sunken (2).
Fair (13). Brown (2). Between
colom's (2).
Thick (3).
Correct (5).
Correct (9).
Correct (3).
Young (6). Twenty-twenty-five
(3). Twenty-fiv^thirty (3).
Thirty-thirty-five (1).
Blue or blue-grey (4). Blue-
grey (6). Grey (3). Grey or
blue-grey (1). Grey or blue
(2). Blue (2).
^'5 character and disposition.
A is described by his family and friends as being of a
gay and happy temperament, but with a vein of serious-
ness, and liable on occasions to fits of abstraction when
he would think about serious matters.
He was very affectionate, and perhaps unusually gentle
for a boy of his age, yet this was combined with extreme
daring.
He was very musical and artistic, with a keen apprecia-
tion of the beauties of nature. Fond of outdoor games
rather of the lighter sort, such as lawn tennis, than of
the heavier sorts, such as football.
He enjoyed life to the full, and was popular wherever
he went.
He was particularly devoted to his mother, and the
relationship between them was even closer than is usual.
The followdng are extracts from the sittings illustrating
his character as shown therein.
A.S. 5. Very jolly and clever.
S.P. 5. Used to be very happy, you know, laughing
70 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
boy, yot lie was sort of reserved, didn't much like to
talk about serious things when anyone there.
S.P. 11. Rather quick in movements, rather happy
sort of disposition.
S.P. 17. He has rather a nice happy smile.
S.P. 26. Got a nice smiling impression.
S.P. 15. Sometimes he was all right, sometimes he felt
very shy, he was rather a clever boy and used to think
an awful lot.
A.S. 36. Very happy spirit.
A.S. 51. Him very happy boy. He was sort of happy
disposition.
S.P. 14. Very affectionate and kind. Couldnt show
things.
S.P. 45. Loves you very much. . . . Affectionate ex.
pression.
S.P. 14. He had lots of courage though he was very quiet.
A.S. 89. Although he is so gentle ... he was frightfully
daring.
S.P. 26. He very sweet natured boy, sort of man who
got sympathy like a girl. He says he was like a girl to you.
S.P. 5. He used to tease you.
S.P. 45. Doesn't know he may be teasing you. ... It
was teasing, I'm sure. Him teasing you about it.
S.P. 5. Hands long and thin. Fond of music.
S.P. 15. Very fond of music. Had very nice hands.
S.P. 26. Very, very fond of music. . . . Had beautiful
hands.
A.S. 55. Very, very fond of music. Had beautiful
hands and beautiful nails.
A.S. 70. He is very musical.
S.P. 5. Very fond of games, but not heavy games.
S.P. 14. Very fond of sport.
A.S. 73. Very fond of all sorts of ga.mes outside.
The following extracts from sittings with Mrs. Leonard
show correspondence with the above.
He's awfully persistent, not exactly obstinate, firm will.
He's got a jolly way with him, so natural, no sense of
sorrow.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 71
He would have been very jolly and happy but he some-
times, and it was strange for anyone young, he sometimes
had, I don't like to call them fits of depression, but sort
of thoughtful fits, very quiet thoughtful fits in which he
would think rather deeply, much more than people would
expect him to.
The young man is very persistent.
When he was with you sometimes he would seem to
you younger, sometimes older ; sometimes he was like a
little child, so gay and young and liking to tease you.
Sometimes he would be like a wise old gentleman (Oh,
not so bad as that he says) but he had an insight into
deeper things.
He'd got a quiet way with him sometimes, he can be
quite quiet and considering and then he wakes up and
talks in such an interested way.
Gentle as a girl though he was manly and had courage.
As mentioned before, his aeroplane was shot down by
the Austrians and both the occupants were killed. It
is not known exactly what his injuries were, but in
several sittings with Mrs. Leonard and elsewhere com-
munications purporting to come from him speak of his
feeling of breathlessness at the time of his passing.
A's military service and death.
The following are extracts bearing on A's occupation as
a flying man and his death.
In eight sittings he is referred to as a soldier.
S.P. 11. Soldier, shows a wing, got wings stuck in
himself, breast.
S.P. 14. Used to fly in air.
S.P. 26. Something to do between them in air
(referring to A. and a friend), or one of them, Topsy
gets taken up in air.
S.P. 14. What a smash! Did something fall from some-
where ? (pointing up in air).
A.S. 34. Everything seems to have slipped away from
him. {Note. This may be a symbol of his aircrash, but
it is not certain.)
72 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
A.S. 70. Symbol of things tumbling in around him.
A.S. 51. It looks like him hurt and him had a big
fall when he crossed.
S.P. 15. Gone away a long time and just about com-
ing back and then he crossed over. He calls it hard
luck because he was so looking forward to something.
{Note. He was killed just before his leave was due.)
A.S. 70. I don't know whether he was shot through
the heart. ... I seem to get difficulty through the heart
and breathing.
A.S. 89. He passed over some time ago, it is some
sudden passing. I do not think it is an illness, it may
be an accident . . . probably crossed over in an explosion.
I hear a lot of noise.
A.S. 87. I feel sure that he didn't finish his education,
because I feel almost taken from school to the Army ;
he was probably under age when he enlisted. I think he
enlisted with several more from school or university.
{Note. He went into the Army from his Oxford O.T.C.,
he was seventeen when he first tried to enlist in 1915.)
I should say that he passed over as a result of an
injury, if not actually killed outright in the war.
He probably had something to do with aviation. . . .
Perhaps there was a crash. ... I mean an aeroplane crash.
The following extracts from sittings with Mrs. Leonard
show some '
correspondence with the above.
Passed over suddenly, not expected. Fortunately he
met a friend who had passed over a little while before.
Just before he passed his thoughts were on a long
journey.
He says, " Don't exaggerate suffering in connection with
my passing. I hardly felt anything, not conscious, felt
faint and dizzy . . . but it didn't hurt me. I didn't feel
any pain or worry or discomfort, only I couldn't breathe.
It didn't worry me, it annoyed me. I said, '
Something's
happened.'
"
He would have passed over more quickly than the lady.
He felt terribly out of breath just before he passed . . .
couldn't get his breath at all.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 73
I wonder if you can remember, had he been planning
a journey, going somewhere, something he would be
thinking of only a little while before he went over.
Representative evidential statements.
The following are selected extracts from the sittings
given in order to show the nature of the evidential
statements. They are not selected entirely from the
definite or higher class of statements, but many of those
which are classed as vague are included. It has been
attempted to give a fairly representative selection. The
notes are quoted verbatim from the annotator's remarks.
A.S. 5. Topsy thinks hims mummy had a picture
painted of him since he passed over.
Note. Yes, a miniature.
Hims mummy just had dress made, got lots of gold on.
Note. Dress with gold not worn since 1915, when he
had known it. About six months ago brought out and
made into a tea-go^u.
Hims mummy very pretty, she had picture somewhere
for people to see.
Note. A drawing of his mother exhibited at the
Pastel Society in the lifetime of the alleged communicator
in 1912. Lately rehung after being in garret for three
years.
S.P. 5. When you comes out of your gate Topsy sees
a road not like you sees road here. Topsy sees earth or
something, sort of goes down hill. You goes a long way
down hill and then you get long stretch of flat and sort
of green each side. And there's something little feeding
on right when you get to the flat. Not big cows, some-
thing little. Going down that road when you get to the
flat long way down there's a house with a red roof that
shows so plain.
Note. The road from our house in California leads
down hill about a mile to flat green marsh land.
74 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
Him says Jiim gets lots of music and lots of water,
and me thinks there's a joke about water, cos when he
says water him laughing ; is you afraid water ?
Note. I had been nervous the night before on account
of a swimming expedition of J 's—had begged him
not to go. J says they sang a lot of Wagner after
the swim.
S.P. 8. You got name in your family or is your
name, something like Mar.
Note. My name is Margaret, also my Mother's.
S.P. 11. Me thinks him sometimes rode n'orses. ^
Shows Topsy n'orses.
Note. Since the sitting his mother has told me that
A. before entering the Flying Corps used to ride horses
at the Albany Street Barracks.
S.P. 12. You seem to have altered your career or
something. Him gives you turned over to something
quite different.
Note. Since (the ostensible communicator in this
sitting) saw me I have turned from writing stories
to writing plays. When he knew me I was a civil
servant.
S.P. 14. Doesnt know what him means but he says
him awfully pleased happiness come to you, old chap.
Its about something nice, something happy coming to
your life. . . . Looks like a lady connected with it.
Note. This is so. Quite true. (The annotator had
recently become engaged.)
The last words him says is " My word, you tooked on
some responsibility " and then him laughing.
Note. This obviously means the Editorship of the ,
a paper. A.'s mother thinks it is more likely a
reference to the girl, " an engagement."
1 It is one of the peculiarities of Topsy's pronunciation that she some-
times adds an initial '
n '
to words beginning with a vowel or aspirate.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 75
S.P. 15. Him saj'S liim had. long trousers long before he
should have done and you remember how proud he was.
Note. Wrong—if unless {sic) he was trying to say '"long
after he should have done." His school uniform was
knickers—he never put on trousers mitil he was sixteen.
There's some kind of funny bridge not far away there
too ; not real bridge. It's something makeshift, him
says. Me thinks he must have been there when he was
younger. Takes Topsy back like few years, and very
happy.
Note. A covered passage between the front and the
back of the house, the boys used the roof of this
passage as a means of getting into the back garden when
the gate of the passage was locked.
You used to be cross with him, something to do bad
writing. . . . No, not bad writing, no, not enough writ-
ing and you used to be cross with him and sort of
couldn't make him say what you wanted to know.
Note. I often reproached him for not writing the par-
ticular things that I had asked him about in my own
lines. He would not aclmowledge parcels or letters for
weeks. This applies particularly to the time when he
was at different training centres in England. From
France and from Italy he WTote often and regularly.
Him sat on your lap and kisses you, and says still
you baby. Him says him used to do that sometimes
when he wasn't shy.
Note. Characteristic : has used the phrase when living.
A.S. 31. Him shows me lots of wood, like tree cut
up. . . . Shows three distinct blocks, him says.
Note. When my parents and family were all together
in 1920, my younger son and I spent a great part of
our time cutting down and sawing up trees. In our
London garden we cut down a tree and made three
blocks of a part of the trunlv, which blocks we put on
our hearth at different times to hold a kettle.
H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
You have a head of some description in that room.
Note. A head of an old priest modelled by my sister.
A.S. 36. He takes me to a house—not large—seems
to stand in its own grounds. Not much of a cultivated
garden—seems more like rough bushes and trees and so
on. I do not knovv^ whether it is a house he has been
to, or a house his people are at now.
Note. A photograph of the garden of his mother's
house shows that this description is fairly correct.
This boy has a habit of scribbling on all sorts of pieces
of paper and backs of letters.
Note. True of A. when living.
S.P. 26. Him says 3'ou had three pairs new shoes or
boots, doesn't know which, since here la.st. Him says
you are extravagant, but him pleased.
Note. Quite true. I had one pair on for the first
time at the sitting, the other pairs just bought and not
yet worn at all.
Shows Topsy lots of peas and him laughing. . . . Me
thinks it's a joke against him ; doesn't know what it is.
Shows lots of peas and laughing, something you and him.
Can't understand it, can't get it.
Note. Might this refer to a joke about shelling peas
at a Convent at Bruges ? He went to school there every
morning when he was about six years old, and he was
given the whole of the Convent's peas to shell, and never
told the family until afterwards. Later when he was
grown up he vised to refer to the Convent as " where
they gave me peas to shell."
Does you know what him means, says that girl with
him got no name.
Note. The one who died when two days old had no
name. (This refers apparently to an infant sister whom
he claims to have met on the " other side.")
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 77
A.S. 51. Him says, you birdy still singing in family.
Does you understand this joke ? he is laughing. The
birdy is old now, but still same as young.
Note. In May 1918, in lovely warm weather on A.'s
last leave he spoke of the " damned little bird " that
was singing Tirritee-tirritee-tirritee in the garden, " singing
as gaily as if there wasn't a war on." Ever since, all
the rest of the summer when we heard it singing we
referred to it as " A.'s little bird," and we have done so
everj spring since when v,-e have heard it singing.
S.P. 27. Him laughing about you, you buries some-
thing and then you digs it up ; it some joke. Looks
like you buries something, perhaps you buries flowers and
then you digs it up. . . . You got bird or animal been
ill, or you afraid of it being ill.
Note. This might refer to the tortoise and the diffi-
culty I had in getting a winter bed for it. It wasn't
actually bm-ied, but covered over. I put a few dandelions
near it in case it hadn't gone to sleep. I thought the
tortoise looked ill. (This incident had been mentioned in
a previous sitting. The sitter had been disturbed in her
mind about a tortoise which she thought had no proper
place for hibernation.)
S.P. 27. You had a lot of water in you house, or you
been somewhere where there was a lot of water in house.
Note. I didn't know this at the time of the sitting.
On reaching home I found rain had been coming through
the roof and had marked the ceiling.
A.S. 55. Gets Bubber or Bubbers, Bubber.
Note. A. saw a great deal of a girl called Bubbles at
one time.
Me thinks hims mummy mislaid something wears round
neck and there was such an upset and then it was in
the natural place.
Note. I thought a valuable necklace had been stolen
from my trunk on the way from Italy in the summer of
78 H. F. Saltmarsh. [PABT
1914. We turned all the luggage upside down and inside
out, and then found the necklace quite safely tucked
away. There was great excitement over it all, and the
evening of my arrival home from Italy was rather spoiled.
A.S. 70. I don't know whether his mother has gone
to America or is going to America, connected with
America, and his mother and a journey to America.
Also she has either sold a lot of old clothes or else given
a lot of old clothes of her own away ;
they have been
packed up to go away.
Note. We are, of course, connected with America. It
is true that last spring I packed a large bundle of clothes
to be called for ; it was in the box-room for three or
four weeks, but exactly when I cannot say.
S.P. 45. You got hole in something on stairs. Tored
or something ; its something a little dangerous. . . .
Doesn't know, shows something like turned upside down. . . .
Didn't you have something new on stairs ?
Note. The bottom step of the steps leading from the
drawing-room into the garden had threatened to break
for some time before it finally cracked right through.
Before the carpenter came to make the necessary repairs
(three new steps) the bottom step for some days was
replaced by a wooden box turned upside down. This
was months ago, I can't quite remember when.
A.S. 89. I don't know, he suddenly laughed and said.
Mother has made a long stay this time. She had about
six moves when he was here. This lady probably lived
in America, or was born in America or her ancestors were
connected with America ; I seem to be associated with
America with her.
Note. Quite correct.
S.P. 52. You is always breaking some beads, and
broke'd some beads ; shows Topsy you trying to pick up
some beads, and he's laughing. They'se light beads.
Note. About a week after the sitting I was wearing
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 79
a string of coral beads. They broke and. I lost three.
1 don't know why I wore the beads, as I haven't worn
beads for years.
A fevj non-veridical statements.
In order that the reader may be given a fair idea of
the nature of the evidence contained in the sittings a
small selection of non-veridical statements from this sub-
case follows. These are either definitely false or are not
recognised as true.
A.S. 5. He shows like glass balls and bottles to Topsy,
something he was doing when he passed out. His wife
takes care of them. He used to speak to lots of people.
Like stand up and speak. His wife going to have long
earned rest and him very pleased.
S.P. 8. Him says you wears heavy clothes and heavy
boots, something to do with that sport, does you under-
stand ? You goes somewhere and him goes with you.
Looks to Topsy all country from little house, like big
patch country, or else you have just been to it. Any-
way him shows that to Topsy and him likes it very
much.
S.P. 12. Him had a very big dog, you know, high
legs, nearly as tall as donkey, and very thin, long sort
of browny hair with little white on it, long head with
long ears.
Haven't you got picture at home, not big picture, with
lots of people : some funny people, some sitting down
and some stanchng up, some not quite dressed.
Seven, doesn't know whether he was there something
in 7, or whether he was there 7 years, or whether he
was killed 7, something 7 cormected with him and that
place.
S.P. \r>. Him says there has been three marriages in
family since him crossed over.
A.S. 31. Shows Topsy very pointed pair of shoes. Me
thinks they still in existence though they are very old.
No, very long time ago—not old.
Gets " Ongora "—" Angora "—or '"
Ankora " sounds like.
80 H. F. Saltrnarsh. [PAKT
Him used to play some funny music. Not violin or
piano, doesn't know what it is—makes funny noise.
S.P. 17. He shows Topsy like grave being dug and
new sort of light brown coffin and him points some one
connected with himself, must be himself, as he points to
himself. Will you find out ?
A.S. 36. Shows me like carpet or druggetting, fairly
narrow strips, put down perhaps in the hall or on stairs.
S.P. 20. You know, when him wrote a letter used to
write not only of ordinary things, but describe things
like writing a book.
S.P. 27. Doesn't know why it is, but that gentleman
like shows roses, like, you know, not like stand up on
tree, big trees, long things with separate roses.
Doesn't know whether him's people long way away, or
a mental distance between him and you's people—there's
some kind of distance and it doesn't quite look to Topsy
like real ground going over. No me thinks its some of
his people don't understand or didn't understand.
A.S. 55. She'm either going to give a party or going
to party and she very happy about it.
A.S. 70. Holding up something shiney to me—I can't
see what it is, and then I get the letter M. Wait,
there is something that is written, something longish and
shiney. M. and C. There's a short letter which I can't
get, seems small writing.
S.P. 45. It's very old lady, but very brilliant men-
tality. . . . Do you know anybody, name like Sidg.
Something to do with somebody Sidg.
A.S. 89. I hear the name Martha. I dont know
whether it comes from that old lady. That old lady
seemed to be mentally very energetic, but I dont think
•
she could walk very well. I think she must have been
very old before she passed out.
2. Extracts from the X. Case.
The ostensible communicator in this case was the
father of the sitter. He died on the 16th December,
1927, at the age of eighty-one. For some years he had
been a complete cripple, having lost the use of his legs
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 81
owing to accidents in which both his hips were fractured.
He passed his life in bed or in an invalid chair. He
was sometimes taken out in a wheeled chair. Before his
accident he had been a clever and successful professional
man, and was referred to in a letter of condolence to his
widow as " a kindly humorous Scotsman." Miss X., the sitter,
writes
:
After a most successful career he had a great amount
of bad luck, and after this seemed to lose his nerve and
self-confidence and never regained them. This quite
ruined his career, and he lost all his connection. This
particularly affected his son, who was in the same pro-
fession and hoped to succeed him. . . . All this was before
he had his accidents and broke his hips.
As a result of his losses and sufferings he became
morose, irritable and difficult to live with, he brooded
on his misfortunes and lost his grip on life. This was
the cause of a great deal of unhappiness to his wife and
family. In Topsy's words, which are said by the anno-
tator to be quite true, " He had funny moods," " His
mentality seemed queer and crochetty," " Very often at
your happiest times he would suddenly say something
and make you all unhappy and spoil your pleasure."
" Seems like he turned against everybody." He caused
many " upsets."
As will be seen from the extracts the general tone of
the communications is one of remorse for his unkindness
and a desire for forgiveness. He is described as a man
of simple tastes and few wants. During the latter part
of his life he never handled money. He was reserved
and undemonstrative as a rule, but had rare moments
when he showed his affection for his family.
He used to read a good deal, latterly mainly short
stories and magazines. He was accustomed to sit hunched
up in his chair, his chin almost on his chest, he hardly
ever raided his head, so much so that some of his visitors
remarked that they had rarely seen his face. He was
naturally a man of great physical strength and of fine
ajDpearance, of great breadth of chest though rather short
of stature.
S2 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
He died, not as a result of the injuries to his hips
but from a stroke; his last illness was of short
duration.
(a) Extracts concerning the ostensible communicator, Ids health
conditions, etc.
A.S. 47. Some one who couldn't do much, not only ill
but couldn't use arms perhaps or legs, Somehow ifeels
difficult to move.
Me feels that gentleman was sort of ill and yet not ill
—could have done things with his head.
A.S. 49. Him crossed over hke suddenly, him ill long
tune but him crossed over suddenly-like only short time
111 before him crossed. Him crossed over not like from
what him had been ill with all the time. Him says
him glad to go really 'cause great trial to be tied like
that. Him says not being able to use his legs was much
more to him than pain. Him couldn't walk, couldn't do
things for himself for several years.
S.P. 36. Feel him can't do anything very much, only
to read and things like that and grumble.
Topsy me doesn't feel ill, gives the feehng doesn't feel
ill and yet him ill for a long time.
Keeps on hearing the Avord "Stroke."
Me doesnt think that gentleman ill so people expected
him to cross over. Him seems to have crossed sudden
Wot sudden in half an hour like that, but sort of dif-
ferent kind of illness him suffered from.
A.S 76. Him still resting and you would think that
him didnt need rest after all the rest him was obliged
to take. ^
S P. 42. (Referring to his invalid chair.) Something
that was hke legs, like legs to him. ... It was the only
way that he could get to places. Him had legs but sort
of couldn t use them.
I
12] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 83
A.S. 85. He has probably been an invalid, he doesn't,
seem to sit in an ordinary chair, it seems as if he were
propped up in the chair.
That gentleman might have suffered with paralysis or
something up to the hip probably.
A.S. 87. I seem to get conditions of an invalid, a
cripple of some description. ... I don't seem ill and yet
I feel helpless, as if I am wheeled and lifted about.
I seem to feel that my life is spent either in bed or
in a chair, and in each case I seem to be put there and
taken out.
1 should say that he had a very good brain before
this accident or something which deprived him of the
movement of his lower limbs. If he has gone over it
is not as a result connected \\'ith this disability that I
have been speaking of. Since that disability he had
some land of sudden illness, but whether he passed over
in it I cannot say.
;) Other extracts.
A.S. 47. You had an upset in your house. . . . You
is not worried 'cause it is a relief.
Says him appreciates Mummy's courage and all you's
courage. Says you miss responsibility more than him,
cause him feels him wasn't much use to any of you.
Him says hims passing really a lucky kind.
A.S. 49. Anyway it (his crossing) was a shock to you
all and surprise to you all.
Him was the cause of lots of upsets in house and now
it's going to be much more peaceful for yow all. You's
mummy's nerves was beginning to get worn down.
You used to be able to comfort him when him used
to get in those funny moods. You used to try to be
firm with him and yet you used to comfort him. Some-
times he used to feel hurt about it, like you was too
firm, and thought you was rather unkind, but him under-
stands now. Sometimes you used to come home and
find Mummy upset and you used to settle it. Him
imderstands now and him laughing alwut it.
H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
Him says one thing him always thanks God about,
that though his mentality seemed queer and crotchetty,
yet him remained sane. Towards the end him always
imagining things going wrong and people doing wrong.
Him soi'ry about it and realises how kind and tolerant
you all were. Him worried Mummy so much, him often
upset and she waited for people to come home.
Him so worried about this and him anxious to tell
you's mummy that you Daddy is sorry.
Him wants you all to be happy and to realise that
you did lots for him. Mummy gets worried and upset
and feels sometimes she wasnt always kind to him and
sometimes cross. Wants to send a special message that
she always did her best and was very good to him and
very few people would have been so patient as she was
with him all through.
S.P. 36. Him seems to regret him done some waste
in hims life—especially in the rest (sic) part of hims life.
You know, him seems to have muddled things. Him
very sorry and all through that muddle, family sort of
affected now.
Him very anxious to send message to hims wife that
though all outward things pointed to the contrary, him
did love her and did love hims children—though him
does realise that him pushed them away from him
somehow.
If he had been here much longer he would have lost
all peoples love and respect for him.
Since him crossed you had much more domestic peace.
. . . Him caused indirectly uproars in the domestic life.
It was misery to him some years before him crossed over
and him very, very happy to be out of that misery.
And after hims fits of disagreeableness him used to suffer
a great deal of remorse and him had a great deal of
remorse since him crossed over.
Him very anxious to make clear to- hims wife—yes,
its hims wife—that she did more than her duty and him
glad that she hasn't got to have regrets. And now she
been free from upsets and worries and anxieties and she
112j Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 86
feels that now it was not any trouble and she would go
through it again if only him was there.
Though it helps him very much that she thinks of the
good things and not of the bad ones, yet the bad ones
were very bad. But him could not help himself, it was
a very bad life not to be out in the sunshine without
depending on someone.
Him wants to give hims love to you's mummy and tell
her how grateful him is for all she done for him and
him really was—in hims better moments when him was
here—grateful. Him very anxious that she be happy and
enjoy life after such long years of strain.
Him was not a rich man and him considers him was
not a lucky man. Every thing him had him had to
work very hard to get. Whatever him done, him seemed
sort of to give nearly all hims life to, and then when
him could not do it any longer, him sort of lost. That
something to do with the disturbances him made and
caused you lot of pain, and you got not quite to dislike
him but sort of to feel cross.
Thing him seems most anxious about is to know that
him loves you and always did love you and him wants
you to forgive him. You has only all tried to think of
the best, but him feels apology due to you all. Him
knows you doesn't try to think of the bad, but it sort
of worries him and him sees things clear now where him
couldnt before. Him realises it is very difficult for the
active people to understand what the inactive people have
to go through.
A.S. 76. Him happy him more loved now and more
understood than for some time before. More sort of
understood.
(After referring to the sitter's work.) Says all that
been unnecessary if him hadn't mismanaged things.
Him says you laugh when him tells you, but him still
resting and you would think that him didn't need rest
after all the rest him been obliged to take. Except for
sort of journeys to you, him resting with hims people.
Him says him needed very much mental rest, him men-
86 H. F. Saltfnarsh. [part
tally sort of under strain long time, and it made him be
unkind to other peoples. But him didn't mean to be
unkind. And that strain him feels him must have rest
and get over it.
S.P. 42. Him so glad that message delighted her
(Sitter's Mother) so nuich. Some message him sent her
some time. . . . She thought it was so like him.
Him says him getting used to hims mind once more as if
him was young. It was something here in life that sort
of robbed him of something and now him sort of learning.
And that makes him anxious to come back, him resting
and learning to use hims mind. Last part of hims life
seemed as if him was child again and him couldnt develop
—growth ceased—and now him got all that to make up.
But everybody very kind to him. And him constantly
coming to your house to try to make up for irritability
that hims child mind caused—Not himself.
Very often at your happiest times he would suddenly
say something and make you all unhappy and spoil your
pleasure and can't do enough to remedy that. But it
was not him—the man.
A.S. 86. That gentleman didn't have anything to do
with money for a long time. Says him didn't have any
thing to do with money for long time and hims needs
were very small indeed. Him didn't fancy anything
specially.
Topsy me thinks him was clever man sometimes and
then something happened and him was not clever any
more. And him so pleased to be able to be sane now
but him still learning.
Him got great affection for hims family now and
affection that was not sus23ected for some time. Seemed
like him turned against everybody then for a time.
A.S. 87. I should say that he had a very good alert
brain before this accident or something happened which
deprived him of tlie movement of tlie lower limbs.
2] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 87
3. Other Extracts.
The following are a few extracts taken more or less
discriminately from other cases.
S.P. 28. There's picture with family and him holding
baby on his knee, but him much younger then.
Note. There is a portrait of my Uncle when much
younger holchng baby against his knee, and family grouped
round.
S.P. 46. And gets a word like Moon or Moons.
Note. The sitter's name was Miss Moon (pseudonym
—
the correct name was actually given).
She brought you lots of those little lilies.
It means something, either yow very fond or she very
fond of them. Its something particular.
Sitter. Well, can you tell me if when I smeJl these
lilies round me, she has brought them ?
Yes, particularly one night when you was in front of
glass somewhere, does you remember ?
SiTTEE.. In front of glass.
You know, what you does your hair in front of.
Sitter. Yes, that's quite right.
It was very strong and you looked round.
Note. This is very interesting, as sometimes I have a
very strong scent of lilies near me, and I have never
been able to account for it.
(Miss Newton's note.) This impressed Miss Moon very
much. The fact of her getting impressions of a strong
scent of lilies was known to several people before the
sitting.
S.P. 16. Something wrong with your shoes or with
your stockings, doesn't know, him laughs, and then him
shows pile of things, something for feet.
SiTTEE. Is that stockings I have got to darn ?
Doesn't know, shows heap, and something funny with
your foot back there (points to heel).
Sitter. Yes, that may be very good.
WeU, says you leave it all tUl you haven't got one
pair.
H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
SiTTExi. That's absolutely splendid.
And you been going to start on to it and bring it out
and leaves it.
Sitter. Yes, that is quite true.
All colours, all mixed.
Sitter. Yes.
Little while ago somebody did them for you.
Sitter. Yes, that's right.
Not going to have such luck this time.
Note. This seems very good to me. I hardly ever
darn my own stockings, but my usual darner was too
busy at the time, so a dreadful heap of vari-coloured
stockings which I had tried in vain to tackle accumu-
lated till I had suddenly no holeless pair left, and had
to dash out and buy some new ones. I don't think this
has ever happened before. After washing the stockings
and getting them all ready in a heap, workbox and all
complete, I even failed to do them.
S.P. 40. (Same sitter as above.) You had to go out
not long ago and had to buy stockings quickly, him says.
Note. This is interesting, for another incident exactly
similar to this one was described in my first sitting.
I vowed I wouldn't let my undarned stockings accumulate
again. I felt really ashamed of myself, but had to hurry
out and buy some more. I remember thinking of Topsy
as I ruefully looked at the second undarned heap, and
hoped she wouldn't know of my shortcomings.
A.S. 20. I dont know whether he had an accident but
he shows me the right heel of shoe, something has been
done or either torn.
Note. My husband's left leg which he broke was
slightly shorter after being set, and when the right rubber
heel came off his shoe one day, we left it off, as it gave
his left leg the added height.
A.S. 2. That house that Topsy describe, there was an
old dark box, sort of chest, me thinks you close it.
Belonging to that gentleman there and it's a little broke.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 89
j''Ote. There was in our house a dark old Japanese
cabinet with a broken door.
A.S. 10. Don't know why Topsy gets lots of nuts ;
you know, tliose little nuts.
Note. She was specially fond of nuts, and sometimes
kept a bag of them by the desk she wrote at.
It would, of course, be possible to multiply the number
of these extracts, but there does not seem to be
any useful purpose to be served in doing so. Those
given are fairly representative of the whole.
II.
Statistics relatikg to the Whole Series of
Sittings.
The following are some statistics concerning the whole
series of sittings and the various classifications which
have been made with selected sub-cases.
There were in all 142 sittings ; of these 53 were Sitter
Present. These are classified as 46 successes, 5 failures,
1 sitting rejected because the sitter gave away too much,
and 1 special experimental sitting which yielded no result.
There were 89 Absent Sitter sittings—29 were ordinary
successes, 9 were intrusion sittings, 3 were special experi-
mental sittings, 42 had to be counted as failures, 1 was
rejected on account of the unsatisfactory nature of the
annotations, and 5 were pseudo-intrusions, that is to say,
the communicator connected with the notetaker intruded.
These latter really count as Sitter Present sittings, and
in the following figures their scores have been included
in that category.
Of the 42 failures in the A.S. type there was often
some small amount of matter which could, at a stretch,
have been considered as veridical ; in some the failure
almost certainly arose from the side of the annotator, in
others there is some suggestion of an intrusion, but not
sufficiently definite to enable it to be classed as such.
It is also possible that some cases of intrusion have been
overlooked.
90 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
For the whole series of sittings the scores for successful
sittings are approximately as follows :
Total possible. Gross score. Net score.
Absent sitter - 2645 1247 1116 = 42-2%
Sitter present - 5782 4204 4002 = 69-2%
8427 5451 5118 = 60-7%
From what has just been said concerning the nature
of the failures in the A.S. sittings it will be readily
appreciated that it was not always possible to score these
in the same way as the ordinary sittings. One can,
therefore, only form an estimate of what the percentage
score for absent sittings would be had all the failures
been included. It is estimated that it would have
been somewhere between 20% and 30%. If the failures
among the S.P. sittings had been included in the per-
centage score it would have been reduced to about 65%.
Sometimes at an A.S. sitting two relics were used
belonging to different contributors : such a sitting should
really be counted as two separate sittings. Again, there
is one case where a double intrusion occurs, and another
where a sitting which starts as a complete failure
develops at the very end into a particularly good pseudo-
intrusion. All these peculiarities render it impossible to
do more than give approximate figures.
Eight separate sub-cases were selected as being suit-
able for special treatment, as described on page 7 ; these
comprised 79 sittings in all, of which 39 were S.P. and
40 A.S.
The following are figures showing the numbers of the
various classes of statements as before described.
Ante-mortem. Post-mortem.
Physical. Non-physical. Physical. Non-physical.
Veridi-
cal.
Non-
veridical.
Veridi-
cal.
Non-
veridical.
Veridi-
cal.
Non-
veridical.
Veridi-
cal.
Non-
veridical.
S.P. - 565 231 254 30 718 250 282 45
A.S. - 180 252 57 23 164 110 33 17
745 483 311 53 882 360 315 62
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 91
Ante-mortem
Post-mortem
Sitter Present -
Absent Sitter -
Physical -
Non-Physical -
Totals.
Veridiccal 1056.
1197.
1819.
434.
1627.
626.
Non-veridical 536
422
566
402
843
115
Percentages for Physical ayid Non-physical Statements.
Ver. Non-ver. Ver. Non-ver.
Physical
Non-physical
p
A.M. S.P. 71% 29%
A.S. 42% 58%
P.M. S.P. 74% 26%
A.S. 60% 40%
A.M. S.P. 89% 11%
A.S. 70% 30%
P.M. S.P. 86% 14%
A.S. 66% 34%
60% 40%
72% 28%
85% 15%
84% 16%
Ver. Non-ver.
66% 34%
84% 16%
For sixty sittings the following are the figures, showing
how the non-physical statements are divided into those
which concern the communicator and those referring to
the sitter.
Ante-mortem. Post-mortem.
Com?nunicator. Sitter. Communicator. Sitter.
S.P.
A.S.
Ver.
Non-
ver.
Ver.
Non-
ver.
^r Non-
V'^'"-
ver.
Ver.
Non-
ver.
202 27 32 7 63 219 15
31 16 15 17 6
233 43 32 7 78 236 21
For the post-mortem statements concerning the com-
municator, it is, of course, impossible to say whether
they are veridical or not ;
they are therefare lumped to-
gether.
It must be remembered that these figures are only
approximate, and they must not be taken as giving any-
thing more than rough indications. We may say, how-
ever, that the percentage of veridicality in S.P.
92 H. F. SaUmarsh. [part
sittings is double or more than double that in A.S.
That the ante-mortem and jjost-mortem statements are
about equal in number, the veridicality of the latter
being, if anything, slightly higher. That the physical
statements exceed in number the non-physical, but have
a lower percentage of veridicality. That the statements
concerning the communicator are more frequent in the
ante-mortem, and those concerning the sitter in the
post-mortem.
Beyond this we cannot go ;
any deductions based on
the actual figures and depending on their accuracy would
be quite untrustworthy.
III.
Some General Theoretical Considerations.
At an early stage of this case the writer drew up a
kind of programme of points to be inquired into and
tentative hypotheses, suggested by the evidence, so far as
it had gone, to be tested by further investigation.
From the point of view of theory the investigation is
divided into two parts : 1st, psychological ;
2nd, psychical
research proper. In the first part it is sought to throw
some light upon and suggest tentative hypotheses to
account for the psychological mechanism of trance medium-
ship, leaving out of the question the source of the informa-
tion given ;
the second part deals with that source, and
is approached in the form of a discussion of the various
hypotheses which have from time to time been put
forward.
The division is not, of course, absolute, the two parts
having an intimate relation to each other and their
respective provinces overlapping to some extent. .,
The psychological side will be treated first.
The programme above referred to is quoted from, and
the tentative answers to the questions raised are given
with, supporting evidence from the sittings where possible.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 03
A. Psychological.
Section I.
The first point to be enquired into is how far there is
evidence for the prevalence of the following :
(a) Deliberate invention.
It is, of course, impossible to pronounce with certainty
on this matter, but it may be said that there is no
apparent evidence of deliberate invention on the part of
the medivim. The only thing that might suggest it
is the occurrence in some sittings of certain rather
hackneyed statements, that is to say, remarks of a kind
common in trance-mediuniship and of such a nature
as to be generally acceptable to any sitter. Some of these
have been classed as cliches, and this has been done
when the type is of a definite and particular as dis-
tinguished from a general nature. Instances of cliches
will be given and discussed later. There are also a
number of remarks of a more general type, such as
references to the alleged spirit helping the sitter, being
with the sitter at various times, to the sitter going over
to " the other side " during sleep, to the sitter being
worried, sad, tired, ill and so on. They are statements
which either are not susceptible of verification or are of so
commonplace a nature that they stand a good chance of
being a lucky shot if the medium were inventing.
There are also a number of statements which might be
considered as obvious inferences from what has gone
before, e.g. when the ostensible communicator is a young
man it is fairly safe to say that he was fond of sport.
Now it may be that those and similar statements are
deliberate inventions, and if the communications consisted
solely of them we should undoubtedly be justified in dis-
missing the case as valueless ; but when they are com-
bined with evidential matter of a superior kind it seems
scarcely reasonable to discount them altogether just
because they are commonplace. It is not fair to condemn
the medium for giving these commonplace communica-
tions, especially if they happen to be veridical, for, just
94 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
because they are commonplace, they are veridical if
applied to most people, and in consequence tend to be
frequently given.
To be perfectly just, the complete absence or relative
scarcity of any such commonplace remarks from a sitting
would be more open to suspicion than the presence of a
normal amount, for then one might suspect the medium
of deliberately selecting evidence which would sound
impressive.
When so much that is commonplace is true of most of
us it would be strange if a great deal of it did not turn
up in the sittings.
The point is not of first importance, as the evidential
value of the communications of this type is never very
high, and their total disqualification would not greatly
affect the result.
In view of the above, and in the absence of any
direct evidence of deliberate invention, it must be held
not to exist.
In this connection the following incident should be
mentioned. Miss X.,i who had acted as notetaker at a
number of sittings, had been introduced to the medium
under a pseudonym. She lives in the same neighbour-
hood as the medium, or rather did do so—the latter has
since moved. On one occasion they met at the Bank.
Miss X.'s account of the matter is as follows :
It must be mentioned that about 5h months ago IMrs.
Elliott met me and my dog Billy in Barclays Bank, Wel-
lington Road. It was only for about a minute, as I hastily
said " How do you do ?
" and beat a retreat, as I was sorry
she had met me and would know I lived in the neighbour-
hood. She, of course, saw my dog, and I am practically
certain she heard me call him by name when I called him
to go out with me. She might, therefore, easily have remem-
bered his ai^pearance and his name, which gives a normal
explanation to her description here of my dog, though I
must say she could only have had a hasty glance at him in
so short a time.
1 See also p. 80, the X case.
112] Sittings loith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 95
The sitting to which this note is attached was dated
3rd June, 1927, so that the incident must have happened
in January of the same year. The sitting in question
was an A.S. one, in which Miss X.'s communicator
intruded ; much information was given about the dog.
It is, of course, possible that Mrs. Elliott seized the
opportimity of making enquiries as to Miss X.'s identity,
and acquired by normal means some information concern-
ing her family affairs.
There is, however, absolutely no evidence that this was
the case ;
moreover, some of the information given is such
that it could hardly have been acquired except by per-
sistent enquiry from persons intimate with the family.
Had such enquiries been made it could hardly have
failed to come to Miss X.'s knowledge.
In any case it would not apply to the A.S. sitting
given with a relic supplied by Miss X., in which very
good results were obtained. There was, of course, nothing
to lead the medium to connect this particular relic with
her.
Even if this somewhat unfortunate occurrence be held to
discount the value of this particular set of sittings it cannot
be deemed to affect any other set ; and since the evi-
dence given in this set is not different in character or
quality from many of the other sittings one can say that
there is no evidence of any illegitimate methods having
been used.
The incident had to be mentioned, but it is not thought
that any great importance attaches to it.
It may be as well to repeat that there is not the
slightest suggestion of suspicion that Mi-s. Elliott has ever
in any way diverged from the path of strictest rectitude.
(6) Fishing.
By this term is meant any deliberate attempt on the
part of the medium or control to obtain information from
the sitter by means of questions, suggestions, skilful
twisting of meanings, and so on.
In S.P. sittings, while it is possible that Topsy does
sometimes resort to this practice, the occasions on which
96 H. F. SaltmarsTi. [part
it might be suspected are relatively few. On the whole,
it may be said that Topsy does not fish, although she
gropes, a term explained in the next sub-section. It often
happens that when some subject is being mentioned by
her, and it seems to the reader of the record as though
a little judicious fishing would yield fruitful results, Topsy
will suddenly drop the matter and jump abruptly to
another topic.
In A.S. sittings fishing is obviously impossible, there
being no one present from whom to fish.
(c) Grojnncj.
Undoubtedly there is a great deal of groping. It is
quite obvious, and no attempt is made to conceal it.
Topsy frequently admits that she does not understand
what is " being given," and she supplies alternative
interpretations. For example, " Me doesnt know whether
him is first son or only son or only one left." There is
a wide difference between groping and fishing ; the first
is what might naturally be expected where so much
symbolism is employed : the second implies a deliberate
attempt to obtain results by illegitimate means.
It does not appear that Topsy always knows when she
has hit on the correct interpretation of a symbol apart
from any information given her by the sitter in S.P.
sittings ; it follows, therefore, that in many cases the
statements are left in the form of alternatives.
The question of groping is of importance as bearing on
the matter of symbolism, and will be referred to again
when dealing with that point.
[d] Name, number and similar habits.
An analysis of the names and initials mentioned in the
sittings seems to indicate very clearly that some such
habits exist in the medium. Taken as a whole the names
and initials have very little evidential value, though there
are a few instances where this is not the case. If they
are regarded as being of purely fortuitous origin, that is
to say, fragments thrown up by the dream stratum, one
would expect to find that the relative frequency of the
commoner names corresponded with their actual frequency
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 97
in real life. Even if the names were all veridical this
correspondence should still hold good, for the number of
persons mentioned, either as ostensible communicators or
connected with them, is sufficiently large to ensure an
average distribution of common names.
Now the relative frequency of the common names given
does not correspond with their normal frequency of occur-
rence ; it appears, therefore, that there is some disturbing
factor at work. This factor seems most likely to be in
the nature of a habit ; the medium has an unconscious
predilection for certain names and initials, which causes
them to be thrown up more frequently than they would
be by pure chance ;
this habit would be of the same
kind as those habits which have been discovered in card
guessing.
In order to arrive at an estimate of the relative fre-
quency of common Christian names, a list was made of
about forty-five or so of the male names which occur in
the sittings, and the number of times which these names
were found among the pupils of a large public school
over a period of thirty years was counted, being some
3500 names in all.
The following is the result
Public Public
Sittings. School. Sittings. School.
Arnold 3 11 Frank 6 182
Alec or Alexander 2 45 Frederic - 5 171
Albert 2 36 George 9 229
Arthur 10 232 Geoffrey - 4 16
Alfred Nil 90 Hemy 2 252
Andrew 1 1 Herbert - Nil 150
Benjamin - 1 12 Joseph 4 36
Charles 1 237 John - 33 251
David 3 22 J ames - 15 110
Douglas - 1 34 Mortimer - 1 1
Edward 3 207 Maurice 7 15
Edgar 1 27 Michael - 9 9
Eric 3 17 Nicolas 1 1
Ernest Nil 113 Oliver 1 9
Edwin 1 21 Phihp - m 31
G
n o
ys n. M . Saltniarsh. [part
Public Public
Sittings. School. Sittings. School.
Peter 4 5 Raymond - 1 4
Percy 2 79 Stanley 3 51
Roger - 12 4 Simon 1 Nil
Rufus 2 Nil Stephen - 1 19
Richard - 1 62 Samuel - Nil 25
Reginald - 4 68 Thomas - 2 101
Roderick - 1 2 Walter - Nil 69
Robert 1 103 William - - 30 298
It will be seen that there is a very great discrepancy in
some cases.
Taking William as standard, John and Joseph come
about right ;
George, Arthur, Edward, Frank, Frederic,
Percy, Richard, Robert and Thomas are all far short ;
while for Henry and Charles, which should have about
24 or 25 mentions, we get only one each. There are no
Alfreds, Herberts, Ernests or Walters, all of which are
very common names. James is rather in excess, Maurice,
Michael and Peter very much so ; while Roger gets 12
mentions in the sittings, whereas he should have only -4.
The girls' names have not been analysed in the same
way, but it is pretty clear from inspection that we should
find the same thing among them. Names commencing
with A. M. and R. seem to be her favourities ; these
letters, together with J. and W., are the most common
among the initials given in the sittings.
The medium has a curious tendency to give names
beginning with the sound Rod or Roj, e.g. Roger, Rodney,
Roderam, Roddin, Rodville or Rodvalley, Roderick ; also
Robinson, Rosalind, Robert and Rosamund, which have a
somewhat similar sound. Fifteen out of the twenty names
beginning with S. commence with St.
There are many extraordinary names given, e.g. Bwavo
or Bravo as the name of a house, Borra Cue or Borrel
cue, Capachon, Conweiller, Ebda, Geutlog, Jut, Mordicot,
Narronger or Oronga, Orndewa, Orloch, Ormerod, Oup-
lough, Oshon, Pongee, Pergelos, Roderam, Rodvalley,
Ruthleben. It will be observed that these oddities are
concentrated around the " 0." No normal associations
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 99
can be found to account for these names, except perhaps
Ruthleben may mean Ruhleben and Roderam Rotterdam,
though there is nothing in the context to suggest associa-
tion with these places. They look to be merely fantastic
nonsense names thrown up by the dream consciousness.
A parallel may be found in the nonsense words of children.
The fact that so many begin with " 0 " may arise from
an infantile association in the mind of the medium with
her own maiden surname, viz. Ortner.
(e) Dream.
While there are few instances of S.P. sittings being
complete failures there are a good number of A.S. sittings
where the contributor of the relic was unable to recognise
anything as relevant. Some of these have proved to be
intrusions, and one or two appear to consist largely of
fragments of reminiscences from previous sittings. There
is, however, a large amount of matter which cannot be
assigned to either of these sources.
A few experiments were tried by sending as relics
absolutely new articles which had no connection with
anybody, except in so far as they were manufactured
articles, sold at a shop, and handled and packed by the
contributor. In all these cases a considerable amount of
matter was given, none of which could be recognised as
in any way relevant by the contributor of the pseudo-
relic. This matter was precisely similar in style and
character with that given in other sittings. In most
cases Topsy recognised that the purporting communicator
was not connected with the relic.
The most probable explanation in these cases, and of
the unrecognisable matter in the ordinary sittings, is that
it is a kind of dream stuff, a spontaneous production of
some stratum of the medium's sub-consciousness. In
many respects it is more analogous to hypnagogic visions
than to dream proper ; for example, it lacks the coherence
and pseudo-logical sequence of the dream ; Topsy jumps
abruptly from one subject to another with no discoverable
associative linkage. There is reason to think that a
large part of the impressions are, for her, in the form of
100 H. F. Saltmarsh. [PAET
visual hallucinations. In both these respects the analogy
is closer to hypnagogic vision than to dream proper.
It seems, then, a plausible hypothesis that the sub-
stratum of the trance material, the matrix in which we
occasionally find embedded veridical communications, is a
sequence of internally generated hallucinations analogous
to hypnagogic visions. These are probably partly built
up of fragmentary reminiscences of previous sittings and
partly from the normal experiences of the medium.
(/) Reminiscence.
As already noted when discussing dream stuff there is a
considerable amount of this. It is impossible to draw a
definite line between reminiscence and intrusion, although
in some cases, where fresh facts are given, reminiscence,
properly speaking, seems to be excluded.
It is not suggested that reminiscence is a conscious
process : there is no ground whatsoever for supposing
that Mi's. Elliott or Topsy deliberately serves up a rehash
of old matter ; it seems rather as though fragmentary
memories of past sittings lingered in some stratum of her
sub-sconsciousness, and became interwoven with the dream
stuff which constitutes the non-veridical portions of the
communications.
As a general rule it has been possible to recognise
definitely as reminiscences only those instances which refer
to communicators of this series, but there is one case
where Mrs. Elliott herself supplied the clue which led to
the recognition of the source in a lady who had had
sittings several years previously, and with whom she had
been on friendly terms. In this case, however, fresh
matter was given, and it should, therefore, be classed as
an intrusion, though it is possible that some reminiscence
is mingled with the new facts (S.P. 48).
Still, the incident suggests strongly that reminiscences
from sittings not of this series may form a considerable
part of the non-veridical matter. It is, of course, impos-
sible to determine how much is attributable to this cause,
but the question is not of great importance, seeing that
it is of fragments of memories that dream stuff is largely
made up.
112] Sittings tvith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 101
(g) Deferred impression.
There is a further possibility which has to be taken
into account in cleahng with the non-veridical matter.
It may be that the medium receives impressions at a
sitting which do not rise to the surface during that
sitting, but remain latent in her subconsciousness until
some subsequent occasion. Where the matter is recog-
nisable as referring to some known person, such as a
previous communicator, the explanation of deferred impres-
sion as against that of intrusion rule, possible,
and but for one fortunate incident it might have appeared
to be more in consonance with scientific method to
ascribe all these cases to deferred impression. We know
from other sources that deferred impressions do occur,
and rather than postulate an entirely fresh type of pheno-
menon for which we have little or no independent evidence,
that is to say, intrusion, we should be bound to prefer
them as explanation.
It fortunately happens that an incident occurred in one
sitting which prevents us from falling into this error, and
although in the rest of the cases it may be impossible to
decide definitely between the two hypotheses, we are
bound to admit intrusion as a vera causa.
The incident was as follows : A.S. 73 was a sitting
held with an article contributed by Sir Lawrence Jones ;
the record contained nothing that he could recognise.
One of the physical descriptions, however, suggested A.,
the communicator in the A case (see p. 66), and the
record was sent to his mother for annotation. A con-
siderable amount of veridical matter was found.
Many of the statements appear to refer to Miss H
(see p. 68) : for example, the name S , which is her
professional name, the initials H. and P., the first cor-
responding with her surname, the latter standing for a
version of her Christian name, by which she is commonly
known ; other references confirm this. The important
statement is as follows : "That lady that him so fond
of, she been very worried and then kind of cold came
and made her ill. She been ill and been away. Gets a
name like S ."
102 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
His mother writes : " P was worried, caught a
chill and fainted in my drawing-room. This was before
she went to Paris, where she was on the day of the
sitting. She was there for only a few days. S is
her professional name." Enquiries were made from Miss
H as to the approximate date of the fainting. She
replied : "I think it would be two or three weeks before
I left for Paris when I fainted in Mrs. F 's house.
(April 4th, 1927, I left London for Paris.") The date of
the sitting is 8th April, 1927.
Now there had been no sitting with any member of
this group since IGth February, 1927 (S.P. 30). It would
seem, therefore, that the reference is to an event which
happened after the date of the last sitting, in which case
it cannot be ascribed either to reminiscence or to deferred
impression.
It may be objected that the evidence is slender, and
to some extent the objection is well founded. There are,
however, five separate items in the statement, all of which
are veridical.
1st. 'The lady hims so fond of." Now, although Miss
H and A. had never met in the flesh, one of the
most striking features of this set of sittings is the growth
of a posthumous friendship between the two. Whether
this is really what it purports to be, viz. a friendship
grown up between a living person and the surviving
spirit of a deceased boy, or whether it is only a romance
conceived in the brain of some living person, is not in
point here ; the fact remains that the sittings unmistak-
ably display the idea. If it be nothing else it is a
correspondence with other sittings with the same and other
mediums.
2nd. The lady has been worried. This is in itself not
at all convincing : it has been said before in connection
with Miss H several times.
3rd. A cold came.
4th. She had been ill.
5th. She had been away.
All the last three are extremely commonplace, but when
combined with the rest have some evidential value.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 103
However it is only by a very rare lucky chance that
an incident of this kind can occur, and such as it is it
should be given its full weight. The balance between
the two hypotheses, deferred impression and intrusion,
hangs evenly ; there is nothing, apart from the methodo-
logical considerations mentioned above, to tip the scale
on either side ; it follows, therefore, that any piece of
positive evidence will serve to establish as provisionally
acceptable that hypothesis which it favours.
It must be emphasised that all hypotheses suggested are
only tentative, the evidence in no case is sufficiently
strong to enable us to go any further.
Section II. The Effect of Various Influences.
The next set of topics to which attention must now be
turned is the following.
What is the influence of the following factors ?
(a) The sitter according to type.
There are certain well-defined tjrpes of sitter in this
case.
1st. We have the emotionally bereaved, that is to say,
those who have recently experienced the loss, through
death, of a dearly loved relative or friend, and whose
consciousness is largely occupied with the sorrowful
emotions arising from that loss.
2nd. The ordinarily bereaved. Those who, having
suffered such a loss, have either partially recovered from
the first poignancy of their grief by the passage of time,
or who, from their temperament or the circumstances of
the case, have never had their consciousness comj)letely
filled with sorrowful emotion.
3rd. The non-bereaved. Those who have suffered no
recent loss, or having lost a friend or relative have not
suffered intense grief.
4th. The convinced. Those who already accept the
hypothesis of survival of the personality and the possi-
bility of communication.
5th. The unconvinced. Those who preserve an open
mind on the subject, not having been able, on the
104 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
evidence which has come their way, to arrive at a definite
decision. This class would include many different grades,
ranging from the nearly convinced to those whose scepti-
cism falls just short of categorical denial. The will to
believe and the will to disbelieve are both liable to be
very strong in this matter.
It should be noted that, with the exception of the
most advanced sceptics, the attitude towards the survival
and communication hypothesis has little to do with any
belief in a future life held on religious grounds.
6th. To comj)lete the list, though it is doubtful whether
this series can exhibit an example of this type, the con-
firmed disbeliever must be included. This would be one
who definitely denies survival in any form, and, of course,
as a necessary corollary, the possibility of communication.
(Note.—It is difficult to choose a name for the disbeliever
which has not a kind of reproachful flavour due to the
influence of religious thought over the popular mind. No
such connotation is, of course, intended here. Disbelief
is equally to be respected as belief : in fact, for the
Psychical Researcher a certain amount of scepticism
might be regarded as desirable.)
These various classes of sitters, of which any of the
first three may be combined with any of the last three,
can be classified again under three other headings.
1st. Good sitters, i.e. those whose sittings as a rule yield
a good percentage of veridical matter. 2nd. Moderate
sitters, those whose average results are moderate, either
consistently in every sitting or by the combination of
some good with some poor. 3rd. Bad sitters, i.e. those
whose sittings are all either complete failures or of poor
quality.
The point to be determined is whether there is any
relation between the classes in the first classification and
those in the second.
It is obvious in the first place that the emotionally
bereaved sitter will probably have a strong will to believe
in survival, and hence will tend to come into the class 4,
i.e. the convinced. This fact will almost certainly show
its influence in the annotations. Those who are con-
112] Sittings ivith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 105
vinced, or are strongly desirous of being convinced, will
more readily see and seize u])on correspondences between
statements in the sittings and their own experience.
They will treat as an evidential point that which would
be passed over by the sceptic or disbeliever as a trivial
chance-coincidence unworthy of notice. This tendency is
plainly shown in the annotations. Some of the anno-
tators who are known to belong to class 4, i.e. the con-
vinced, exercise, quite unconsciously, very great ingenuity
in the interpretation of the evidence, much of what they
ap23ear to consider as veridical would seem to the sceptic
as farfetched and strained.
On the other hand, it is not unlikely that a similar
degree of ingenuity in evading the conclusion of veridi-
cality may be exercised by the sceptic ;
but, seeing that,
as a general rule, they either maintain silence or pass
over the statement in question with a plain negative, it
is impossible to obtain definite evidence on this point.
There is a further point in this connection. In S.P.
sittings the convinced sitter is apt to give more encourage-
ment to Topsy than the sceptic, and there can be no
doubt that this factor influences the quality of the sitting
to a large degree. Topsy is very susceptible to the
attitude of the sitter, whether sympathetic or the reverse,
she is easily discouraged by repeated failure to recognise
her statements as veridical. She sometimes says that
she cannot go on if the sitter does not recognise any
of the persons she describes.
It is possible that this absence of encouragement which
must necessarily occur in A.S. sittings is responsible to
some extent for the consistently lower percentage of
veridicality which is found in them as compared with the
S.P., although it cannot be held to be the sole cause of
the phenomenon.
Again, a convinced sitter is more liable to give away
information than is the sceptic ; an example of this may
be found in one S.P. sitting, which had to be rejected
as entirely valueless owing to the fact that the sitter
appeared to give away to Topsy more information than
he received from her.
106 H. F. Salfmarsh. [part
Apart from these considerations there seems little ground
for thinking that the class of sitter has any relation to
the quality of the evidence. No doubt there are certain
characteristics which constitute a good sitter, but they are
not those on which the present classification is founded.
From the data available it has not been found possible
to make any suggestions as to v/hat these characteristics
may be.
Out of seven good sitters, selected as having obtained
the most consistently high score, three are convinced,
three must be regarded as being more or less sceptical,
and one is doubtful. Of the three convinced one is
emotionally bereaved. Two of the best sitters are rather
markedly of a critical frame of mind, having considerable
knowledge of psychical research, and being thus able to
estimate the value of the evidence as it is given. This
capability would tend to check any great emotional
excitement during the sitting, such as might be aroused
in a sitter of less critical disposition.
Out of six moderate sitters, two are convinced, one
sceptical, three doubtful. Out of five poor sitters, one is
convinced and emotionally bereaved, two sceptical, two
doubtful.
Thus there seems to be no constant relation between
the quality of the sitter as good, moderate and poor and
the characteristics under which they have been classed,
viz. convinced or sceptical, emotionally bereaved, and so
on.
Amongst the sitters were seven who were known to
possess some psychic faculties. Of these seven, two were
definitely good, two were moderate but nearly good, one
was poor but nearly moderate, one was definitely poor,
and one a complete failure. Here, again, there seems no
constant relation.
The next j^oint to be considered is the relation between
the quality of the A.S. sittings and the S.P. in regard
to the sitter. Here, again, we can find no coijstant relation.
There is only one instance where the sitter is con-
sistently good in both A.S. and S.P. sittings, but unfor-
tunately the number of A.S. sittings was small. With
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 107
the good S.P. sitters we find fairly numerous instances
of complete failure in A.S.
In no case can it be said that the A.S. sittings with
any sitter (except that just mentioned where the number
of A.S. sittings is too small to judge from) are consistently
good, though in some cases they are consistently bad.
It may be concluded then that the conditions which
determine the success or otherwise of the A.S. sittings do
not relate to the characteristics of the contributor of the
relic, considered as an absent sitter.
(6) The notetaker.
There were only four different notetakers employed in
this series of sittings ; it is, therefore, impossible to draw
any definite conclusions as to any influence exerted by this
factor. There is, however, some slight suggestion that such
influence does occur. The fact that Topsy fairly fre-
quently refers to the affairs of the notetaker seems to
show that she is not entirely indifferent.
In the case of one notetaker Mrs. Elliott expressed the
opinion that she was too " positive " in character to be
ideal for the purpose, and it is noteworthy that we find
considerable evidence in some of the sittings at which
she took notes of the intrusion of her own ostensible
communicator. She proved also to be one of the best
sitters.
There are numerous instances of references made to
current events connected with the notetaker, and this
seems to occur quite irrespective of whoever may be
acting as such at the time. They look like examples of
sporadic telepathy or clairvoyance (to use two indeter-
minate names for a faculty for acquiring supernormal
knowledge), and are probably analogous in character to
the numerous references to Miss Newton's recent thoughts
or actions obtained through Mrs. Elliott and Mrs. Leonard.
(Some of these have been published in Proc. S.P.B.
Vol. XXXVI., p. 190 ff.)
Of the four notetakers the bulk of the work was done
by two of them, the others acted on six and seven
occasions respectively.
108 H. F. SaUmarsh. •
[part
The following are some figures concerning the various
notetakers in A.S. sittings.
sful O'j if') Yi f1 Q
o vVlj V 1 l/fJ o . J.' tl( Vi</ Co
Miss H - 23 J. V *^'J- CA't 1. \^ 46%
tU /q 19 Total 42
Miss W.- 6 »
)
>
)
35% 13 „ 19
Mrs. D. - 3 5 ? )
)
36% 3 „ 6
Dr. W. - 3 5 ) ) J 37% 4 „ 7
Dictated by
Mrs. Elliott 3 ; 5 ?
)
64% 3
(c) The nature of the relic.
There are very few instances in which the nature of the
relic appears to exert any influence over the statements
made at the sittings. In one case, where the relic was a
dog-collar, Topsy talks a great deal about dogs, but gives
nothing which can be recognised as veridical. Before
going into trance on this occasion Mrs. Elliott remarked
the object felt like a slave bangle.
A large number of the objects used as relics are of
such a nature that they give no indication of the type
of person to whom they had belonged, even whether
male or female, e.g. such things as purses, eyeglasses,
letters, pens, pencils, and so on. Some are definitely
masculine, such as cuff-links, ties, etc. ; some definitely
feminine, as pendants and bracelets. While there are
many instances where the sex of the ostensible communicator
corresponds with that of the original owner of the relic there
are others where this is not the case, for example, in
A.S. 40, where the article was a pair of gold cuff-links,
and the communications purported to come from an
elderly lady.
It may be concluded with a fair degree of certainty
that the nature of the relic has little if any bearing on
the matter given at the sitting. Mrs. Elliott has some
definite objections to certain types of article, for example,
she does not like knives, though the reason for this is
not obvious. She also does not care for written matter,
probably because there might be a suggestion that she
obtained normal information by surreptitiously reading it.
It may be remarked here that she is most scrupulous to
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 109
avoid any possibility of obtaining normal information.
Good results have, however, been obtained from such
articles as letters, but in no case is there any reason to
think that the statements made at the sitting bear any
relation to the contents of the letters. She also objects
to any article which has been often washed or handled
by a great number of people She probably holds what
is called the psychometric theory, that is to say, the
theory that physical objects retain traces from which a
sensitive can derive information concerning their past
history, which would account for her prejudice in this
respect.
In some cases the package in which the relic was
enclosed was not opened by the medium, and good
results have been obtained. It is not always possible to
say whether the nature of the article could have been
judged by feel alone in these cases, but in one case at
least the article was such that the sense of touch could
not have given any definite knowledge of its nature.
The sitting in question, A.S. 16, gave a high percentage of
veridicality, the relic being a knitted necktie. This is most
probably a masculine article, but it is hard to believe that
the mere feel of it through the packing would be sufficient
to enable anyone to say more than that it was some
comparatively small soft article, possibly knitted. For
example, it might have been a necktie, which is masculine,
or the waist-belt of a knitted silk jumper, which is
feminine.
Sometimes Topsy starts with the package unopened, and
then, finding that she does not get along very well,
opens it. The instances in which this happens are not
sufficiently numerous to enable it to be determined
whether the opening of the package makes any difference.
(d) The use of the same article at two different sittings.
There were two instances where the same article was
used twice at different sittings. It happens, unfortunately,
that in one of these, while the first use of the relic gave
a good amount of veridical matter, on the second occasion
an intrusion occurred which occupied the entire sitting.
110 H. F. Saltmarsh. [pari
In the other ease both sittings were entire failures,
nothing being recognised by the contributor of the relic,
nor with the exception of a possible reminiscence in the
second sitting can any intrusion be detected.
The correspondence between the two sittings was very
slight, in fact it may be considered as stretching a point
to say that there was any correspondence at all.
The following are the only points in which there is the
slightest resemblance :
A.S. 32. A.S. 60.
Old man (and old lady) Old man
fairly tall just below average height
very broad, heavily built inchned to be stout
face fairly Jong and broad fairly big face
fairly big nose, little bulbous long nose
blue or blue-grey eyes, blue eyes
^
sparkling
eyebrows fairly well marked well marked
forehead high, not wide, lined forehead high
grey hair, bald on top grey hair, going little bald
mentally very alert, very clear keen intellect
difficulty walking and getting lame
about, used stick
William W.
The above descriptions are very vague, and might apply
to thousands of old men : they do not correspond in
several details, such as height.
{Note.—Mrs. Elliott herself admits that she cannot
always judge heights ; this may be due to the fact that
she appears to derive the descriptions from some kind of
visual hallucinatory image, which varies in apparent
distance from her. Thus an image which aj^pears to
be some distance away might be judged to be of a
shorter person than one which came close.)
Even the more definite detail of lameness does not
quite tally—the man in A.S. 32 is said to have difficulty
in walking, and used a stick, which may have been due
to infirmity of age, whereas in A.S. 60 he is said definitely
to have been lame.
I
t
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. Ill
, None of the other details given or incidents referred to
I in either sitting correspond in the slightest.
'
It may be said that there was no real correspondence
between the two sittings.
It may, however, be noticed that the relic, a gold chain
bracelet, was obviously of a feminine nature, yet in both
sittings the principal ostensible communicator was an old
man. At the first sitting the package was not opened
by the medium, in the second it was opened and she
remarked that it obviously referred to a lady. Both
sittings are normal. The evidence, then, on this point
is far too slender for any opinion to be formed ;
what
little there is is mainly negative in character.
j
(e) T/ie condition of the medium as regards health, external
conditions, etc.
{ As might be expected these factors appear to have
]
some influence on the quality of the sitting, though the
amount of that influence is rather surprisingly small, in
fact some of the best sittings have been given when the
medium has been tired and disturbed by noise.
External circumstances such as noise may disturb her,
but there is no instance of the phenomena being entirely
inhibited by such causes ;
probably the occurrence of
noise was not very frequent, so that opportunity of
judging on this point is small.
As a matter mainly of guesswork, but based on faint
indications in the available data, it seems likely that the
effect of external disturbances is more marked at the
commencement of a sitting, for example, it might hinder
or even prevent trance, but when the trance state is
fairly established the effect is less.
In three cases where the medium is stated to have
been depressed or nervous complete failures have resulted.
Topsy sometimes makes passing remarks on the health
conditions of the medium, speaking of her as of a third
l^erson.
Probably of greater importance than either of the above
factors is the attitude of the medium towards the sitter
in S.P. sittings.
112 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
Mrs. Elliott is sensitive to psychological conditions, and
readily detects an unsympathetic atmosphere. If she likes
a sitter the chances of a good sitting are increased, and
the reverse holds true. Her liking of the sitter, however,
does not guarantee a good sitting.
As before remarked, Topsy becomes discouraged if the
sitter does not recognise anything she gives ; a little
judicious praise spurs her to increased efforts, and she
appears to appreciate any expression of friendship towards
her. See the " Stockings " incident quoted on page 87.
It would be of great value if it could be determined
whether Topsy's moods bear any relation to those of the
medium, but—unfortunately evidence is almost entirely
lacking on this point. Topsy (speaking, without prejudice,
of her as a separate person) is a cheerful, good-natured
little person, very friendly and sympathetic, vivacious and
intelligent though not possessing perhaps so much humour
as Feda. She is remarkably equable in temperament,
and exhibits little variation in mood ; she gets a bit
depressed by failure, and says so quite openly ; she is
liable to resent any failure to greet her when she appears.
She sometimes admits that she is guessing : this is
paralleled in normal sittings when Mrs. Elliott says she
is romancing.
As a rule questioning her is of no use, she replies that
she can only say "what they gives"; sometimes, how-
ever, she does make an attempt to answer a question.
Taken on the whole there is nothing to show that
Topsy is much affected by the physical or psychological
condition of the medium, although, as already stated, the
evidence in the matter is extremely small.
It might prove a fruitful line of research in future
cases if the medium could be induced to furnish informa-
tion concerning her state.
(/) Trance or normal condition in .sittings.
Equally good results have been obtained under either of
these two conditions. The decision which shall be employed
at any sitting rests with Mrs. Elliott herself and, it would
appear, is based on some subjective feeling. On one
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 113
occasion (A.S. 7) she remarks to the notetaker, " I am
not going to try a normal sitting again with you," her
reason for this being, apparently, that she felt the influ-
ence of the notetaker disturbing, and possibly preventing
her from receiving impressions connected with the relic.
The following are figures concerning this point :
Trance sittings, 19 successes, average score 39%, 22 failures.
Normal sittings, 19 ,, ,, ,, 47%, 20
These are for A.S. sittings, all S.P. are trance.)
There is clearly little to choose between trance and normal.
Section III. Association of Topics.
The next point to be considered is the part played by
normal association. It is characteristic of Topsy that
she jumps from one topic to another with a somewhat
disconcerting abruptness. In very few cases has it been
found possible to detect any associative link which might
determine the sequence of the topics. The same may be
said, in perhaps a somewhat less degree, of Mrs. Elliott
in her normal sittings.
The impression which one receives—and it is doubtless
the impression which one is intended to receive—in read-
ing the records is that Topsy (or Mrs. Elliott) is simply
handing on matter received by her from elsewhere, or
describing what is to her an objective appearance. How
far this impression is probably correct will be discussed
later. The word " probably " is used advisedly—in
psychical research we cannot hope for certainties, whatever
hopes we may cherish in other departments of knowledge.
The point of the absence of any apparent associative
linkage between the various topics is of imjDortance in any
psj^chological hypothesis intended to cover the phenomena
of origin and transmission of impressions by mediums.
Were the linkage of the ordinary associative kind it
seems hardly likely that no trace of it should be observ-
able.
As an implement of research association might prove to
be of the greatest value could its presence be detected in
any quantity.
H
114 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
About the most individual parts of the entire mental
furnishing of any person are his habitual associations,
seeing that they arise from his unique experience. If it
could be shown that the associative links in a series of
sittings with one medium and various sitters all belong to
the same set it would point to the mind of the medium
as being the source of the impressions ; if , on the other
hand, any corresj)ondence could be discovered with indi-
vidual sitters not shared among them all it would point
to an external origin.
Further, if it could be shown that the associations which
governed the sequence of the toj^ics in any case were
the same as those known, from a knowledge of his
history, to have been possessed by the ostensible com-
municator, it would be evidence, not conclusive perhaps
but still good evidence, of the identity of that communi-
cator and of his mind being the source of the information.
Unfortunately, in this case no such associative linkage
has been discoverable ; whether this is always the case
in all trance communications is a matter for research.
The matter is mentioned here solely as a suggestion for
future use.
There are a few isolated cases where normal associations
may be detected, for example, in A.S. 35 the name
Joseph is followed shortly by the name Mary. In A.S. 21
we get " Something to do with Wilham. They'se con-
quered something there." The association is obvious.
Some other cases will be quoted when symbolism is
dealt with. In the matter of symbolism association
plays an important part.
Section IV. Function of the Relic.
The function of the relic in A.S. sittings must now be
considered, at least in so far as it bears on the purely
psychological issue. For the larger part this question
comes under psychical research proper, but it is one of
the places where the two territories overlap. The facts are
briefly this : (1) The medium handles an inanimate object.
(2) She makes a series of statements purporting to be
derived from spirits, i.e. the surviving consciousnesses of
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 115
deceased human beings. (3) In a number of cases these
statements are true, or have a relevance for someone who
is or has been in some way connected \x\t\\ the object.
As regards fact (2) we can leave the discussion of the
authenticity of the statements xmtil psychical research
matters are being dealt T\-ith ; the question now to be
decided is : Is there any causal relation between fact (1)
and fact (3) ? i.e. Does the handhng of the reUc enable
the medium to make these statements ? The precise maimer
in which this effect is produced is not yet the point.
If there be no causal relation, then the relevance of the
statements must be accomited for in some way. The only
explanation, other than some imspecified causal nexus,
seems to be chance.
The h\T)othesis of chance has been dealt -nith elsewhere,
and the reader must form his own conclusions on what
has been there said. If he is satisfied that chance alone
is responsible for the phenomena, then there is nothing
more to be said : all the phenomena are normal and
rec^uire no special psj^chological treatment. If, on the
other hand, he decides that chance alone could not
produce these results, then he must allow that there is
some causal nexus between the two facts. Beyond this
the evidence does not enable us to go -nithout trespassing
on the territory of psychical research.
From the point of view of psychology it is sufficient to
say that the handhng of an inanimate object sometimes
enables the medium in some way to make statements
relevant to some person or persons who are or have been
connected T^dth that object, either directly or indirectly
through the intervention of another person.
Section V. Cause and Meaning of Intrusions.
Here, again, the main interest faUs under psychical
research. Evidence that intrusion proper does occur has
been cited when discussing reminiscences [q.v.).
For the purposes of psychology it seems a matter of
indifference whether the matter is veridical for a person
connected with the rehc or for an intruder, the psycho-
logical mechanism being probably the same in both cases ;
116 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
for psychical research it may, however, be of the highest
importance.
An intrusion sitting must be regarded as a complete
failure considered as an ordinary A.S. sitting, the causal
nexus above referred to having failed to be estabhshed.
It may be that the intrusion itself spoils the sitting
and, to use language which must be taken as figurative
and not as implying any hypothesis, the intruder butts
in and monopolises the medium, thus destroying any chance
for impressions from the relic coming through.
This is the view suggested by Topsy herself if we
accept her words at their face value. She frequently
complains of " si:>irits " refusing to go and taking all the
" power." Mrs. Elliott in one normal sitting remarks
that it must be someone who has " strayed in."
It is frequently recognised by both Mrs. Elliott and
Topsy that the purporting commiuiicator is not connected
with the relic. There is, apparently, a symbol for this,
viz. the spirit, i.e. the hallucinatory appearance of the
purporting communicator, makes the gesture of waving
it away.
Acceptance of this view would appear to entail accept-
ance of some form of spiritistic hypothesis for which many
will not be prepared ; the facts, however, can be des-
cribed in such a way as to avoid any such implication.
It might be said, for example, that there is a conflict
between impressions arising from various sources, and that
the success of one set in getting through prevents the rest
from emerging.
The principal intruders are the communicators called A.
and Mrs. Irving: the intrusions of Miss X.'s communicator
take place as a rule at sittings where she acts as note-
taker, and are therefore analogous to S.P. sittings : there
is only one intrusion proper in her case. The other
cases are one for Mr. S , and one for a former sitter
of Mrs. Elliott's not connected with this experiment at
all. It is from Mrs. Elliott herself that we derived the
knowledge of this last intruder.
It is perhaps suggestive that the intruders are all
" good communicators." This may be interpreted as
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 117
lending support to some form of si^iritistic theory, but
against this it must be borne in mind that an intrusion
by a communicator who was not " good " might very
probably not be recognised.
Both A. and Mrs. Irving are very persistent; the former
is represented in a Leonard sitting as insisting on talking
himself, and not giving the other " spirits " present a
chance to say much. He excuses himself for this on the
ground that he is the nearest to the sitter, so that
the sitting was really his sitting. Both he and Mrs.
Irving are quite experienced communicators, the latter
particularly so.
Section VI. Cause and Meaning of Cliches.
These phenomena are very obscure, and in the absence
of any definite detailed information concerning the psycho-
logy, history and habits of thought of the medium it is
difficult to form any hypothesis to account for them.
Several suggestions may be made, and it seems probable
that cliches are not all of one kind, but spring from a
number of different causes. Some, for instance, look like
symbols of which the meaning is not clear ; as an example
of this the numerous references to boots and shoes may
be cited, for in one case Mrs. Elliott says, " He is wear-
ing heavy boots, perhaps it means that he Lived in the
country." Others may be fragmentary reminiscences from
other sittings, e.g. lameness and injury to the foot or leg,
one of the communicators having been a man who had
lost a leg. Probably some arise from normal associations
in the mind of the medium : of these " rice " is perhaps
an instance, the apparent association being with India,
and thence with any hot country. These would belong
to the larger class of recurrent imagery in the dream
stuff, or rather the hypnagogic stuff which, as has been
suggested, forms the background of the whole thing.
In the study of hypnagogic phenomena made by Mrs.
Leaning, and published in Proceedings, May 1925, it is
clear that some people tend to have a certain well-defined
type of image, as, for example, faces or geometrical
figures. It may be that this tendency extends beyond
118 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
the reproduction of a particular type, and in certain cases
includes individual images.
One hears many stories of recurrent dreams, and
possibly some of these stories may be true ;
anyhow
it is not inconsistent with what is known of the origin
and mechanism of dreaming to suppose that certain
topics will tend to be reproduced with greater frequency
than normal. It seems probable that if it had been
practicable to submit the medium to a course of psycho-
analysis, in particular, to obtain a series of free associa-
tion tests, some light might be thrown on the source of
these cliches.
There is one particular cliche which exhibits the type
very well. On five occasions Topsy (or Mrs. Elliott)
mentions a ring with black and an animal standing up on
it ; this is presumably a signet ring of some sort with a
dark stone with a figure of some animal engraved thereon.
It is mentioned in connection with five different sitters,
and is veridical for none. It may be a symbol—if so
its meaning has not been discovered, even by Topsy
herseK ; but more likely it arises from a memory in the
mind of the medium which has somehow or other acquired
a set of associations, possessing numerous finks with the
type of matter which is given in the sittings.
The following is a list of the more important of the
topics which were indexed for the discovery of cfiches.
The numbers are the number of the references in the
whole series.
Anniversaries, 22. Broken or worn-out boots, 8.
Breathlessness, 21. Carpet or cloth with hole in it, 6.
Chains, 17. Corn, 12.
Cough, 40. Old-fashioned dress, 6.
Music, 48. Desert country, 8.
Pictures, 59. Digging, 10.
Rings, 28. Graves, 8.
Shoes or boots, 29. Someone achieved something, 13.
Writing, 26. Beads, 12.
Going to or across water, 32. Embroidery, 9.
Leg or foot hurt, 47. Paralysed, 20.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 119
Some of these, such as anniversaries and pictures, are
commonplace references which would naturally tend to
occur with considerable frequency ;
some, as before remarked,
are probably symbols ; for example, the references to corn
are almost certainly symbolic either of a connection with
the country rather than town (Mrs. Elliott is essentially
a town-dweller) or of a season of the year.
Section VII. General Conclusions.
An attempt must now be made to gather up the
scattered threads and form some sort of provisional
theory of the mechanism of these phenomena. This will
fall under three headings. 1st. The mode of reception of
the impressions. 2nd. The mode of internal transmission,
i.e. the process which the impressions undergo between
their reception and their delivery by Topsy or Mrs.
Elliott. 3rd. Some theory to account for the source and
nature of the non-veridical matter.
Concerning the first, if it be accepted that some part
of the communications consist of veridical impressions
having relevance to the sitter, the contributor of the
relic or deceased persons connected therewith, and that
the amount of this is beyond what could be attributed
to pure chance, the matter given in the sittings must be
distinguished as being of two kinds, viz. internally
generated and received from outside.
It is with the latter kind that we are now concerned.
The question of its source is the subject of psychical
research, and will be dealt with in the second part of
this report—for the present it may be ignored. The
point now under discussion is the bare fact that the
medium receives impressions from some external source,
and we want to form some theory of the manner in which
this takes place.
It is pretty clear from the evidence contained in the
records that Topsy and Mrs. Elhott obtain much of
their information from a sort of visual hallucinations ; for
example, the physical descriptions are given as though
taken from a picture or actual figure, the movements of
the ostensible communicator, rooms, articles of furniture,
120 H. F. Saltmarsh. [pakt
and so on, described. There are also some impressions
which are obviously auditory, such as names and initials,
and, very occasionally, words which purport to be spoken
by the ostensible communicator. There is a marked dif-
ference in this respect between Topsy and Feda. The
latter gives the impression that she is listening to some-
one talking to her, for she sometimes exchanges remarks
with an invisible person. Topsy, on the other hand, seems
to be watching an invisible actor who is trying to convey
his message by pantomime. In neither case, of course,
is this invariable : Feda does get information conveyed
pictorially and in symbols, and Topsy does hear sounds,
that is to say, they purport to do so.
It is probable, moreover, that some of the impressions
are neither visual nor auditory, but rather, to use a word
much employed by Feda, inspirational.
The first question, therefore, that arises is whether
these hallucinatory images, whether visual or auditory,
are the external source from which the information is
derived ? It would appear not, although it is clear that
mediums in general hold the opposite opinion, an opinion
which tends to favour the spiritistic hypothesis.
The hypothesis advocated in this paper is that the
impressions, other than those internally generated, are
received by a stratum of the subconscious mind of the
medium, and exteriorised as visual or auditory hallu-
cinations in a manner similar to that employed in the
generation of phantasms. If this be accounted as pro-
visionally acceptable it implies the existence of some
process of internal transmission, and any evidence for
such a process which might be found would be
evidence in favour of the hypothesis. This brings in
the second of the theoretical questions.
The fact bearing most nearly on this matter is the
extensive employment of symbolism. The following are
representative examples :
S.P. 26. " Me doesn't think the second one related, or
else you didn't know him or something, him doesn't come
near you," (Symbol for relationship, etc., is "coming near.")
112] Sittings ivith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 121
S.P. 11. " You nearly married and tlien not married.
Shows Topsy like wedding dress and then sort of drops
it." (Symbol is obvious here.)
S.P. 15. " Shows Topsy like symbol like all black
there."
A.S. 29. " Points to him and waves his hand." (Symbol
for not being connected with the other " spirit " who is
there at the time.)
A.S. 29. " Shows Topsy like something being dug up."
(Meaning unknown.)
A.S. 29. Doesn't know whether that gentleman was
going to water and didn't go. Points to water and
shakes his head." (Symbol obvious.)
S.P. 52. " Well, Toj)sy me doesn't know what him
means, him shows symbol like you coming out above it,
it's going to drop away, that condition." (Refers to some
trouble the sitter had been having.)
S.P. 17. " Doesn't know why he keeps on giving Topsy
such a lot of black. Doesn't know whether it's worry or
somebody crossed over." (Obvious.)
The following incidents show how the true impression
gradually emerges from the symbols. In A.S. 90 there
is a non-veridical reference to India or " some hot place
across water where there's lots of dark people," then
comes some irrelevant matter, followed by the words,
" Remember palms.'" Topsy then says, " Doesn't know
what palm looks like. And then him laughing and says,
where bananas grow." More irrelevant matter is inter-
posed. Then comes, " Him showing Topsy lot of rice
and him laughing. There must be joke about lot of
rice ;
'
more rice, never tired.'
"
The annotator says :
He was very fond of rice puddings and often said he
would willingly have one at both meals every day. He
would often say when we asked what pudding he would
like, " You can give more rice, I never get tired of it,"
or words to that effect.
There would appear to be a connection in Mrs. ElHott's
122 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
mind between rice and India. It is easy to trace the
gradual emergence of the true impression concerning the
rice pudding : first, the symbol calling up India, then, by
association, Palms, Bananas, and finally Rice ;
eventually
the correct meaning, that is to say rice as a pudding and
not as connected with the tropical country where it is
grown.
A somewhat similar incident occurs in S.P. 3 and
S.P. 16, both being with the same sitter. In S.P. 3
Topsy says, " Somebody gone to hot country connected
with you," and " Me thinks it's a lady," " Him shows me
lots of white, do you understand ?
" then "Is it sister
to you 1
" (this was correct), " But doesn't know why it's
happy condition there, for me thinks she murmur sick,
some lady sick," " She getting married ?
" Then a little
later, " Me thinks she took lot of white things with her,
that is what it is." The last few words seem to give
the clue to the whole thing. The white things are a
symbol for a hot country or for getting married, and,
possibly through association with the white uniform
usually worn by nurses, with sickness.
This is confirmed by S.P. 16. Reference is made to a
lady who had gone a long way away. Then " She been
ill, or something to do with ill people." Then Topsy
asks if it is the sitter's sister or sister-in-law. After
some irrelevant matter, she says, " Does she always dress
white ?
" " Shows white," then :
Him (referring to ostensible communicator from whom
all this purports to come) been to India ? Well, what's
he say India for ? Him said India. Doesn't know
whether your sister been to wedding, or what it is, gives
something mix up over wedding.
The only veridical impression behind all this is the
fact of the sitter's sister having gone to a hot climate,
viz. Kenya. The symbol seems to be the white clothes ;
Topsy recognises this when she says, " That is what it
is."
One more instance will be given. It is interesting as
showing a mixture of veridical impressions. In S.P. 46
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 123
sitter's mother is tlie ostensible communicator. Topsy
.-ays :
Doesn't know whether that lady got two boys or you
got two boys. Keeps speaking of two boys.
Sitter. There were two boys ; she had two boys.
Well, they was related to you, must be.
Sitter. Yes.
Did one cross over before her and one after ?
Sitter. No.
Somebody crossed over just before her, a man.
Sitter. Yes.
And then after, but not very soon after her.
Sitter. That's right.
The facts were that the sitter's mother had twin sons
who died in infancy, and a brother who died just before
her, and a nephew who died after her. The confusion
appears to be caused by the two impressions each con-
cerning two male persons connected with the ostensible
communicator who had died. It looks as though the
impression concerning the two infant sons who had died
called up by similarity the tw^o other relatives whose
deaths were connected with her own by proximity in
date.
It will be observed that the symbols are all of a
certain type. They are what might be called natural
symbols, and are based on habitual analogies, either
verbal, as for example when the hallucinatory figure
coming near to the sitter is taken to mean nearness of
relationship, or common forms of speech, as when all
black is used as a symbol for worry or sorrow ;
or else they may be natural pantomime, as when the
gesture of waving away is interpreted as meaning that
the ostensible communicator was not connected with the
reUc.
This feature should be contrasted with the symboUsm
employed by Feda. In her case the evidence available
is much more scanty ; if symbols are largely used by
her the fact is not so apparent as with Topsy. This
may be due to the more developed condition of Mrs.
124 H. F. Sdltmarsh. [part
Leonard's mediumship, and a study of the records of her
earlier sittings might reveal a larger utihsation of symbols
than shows at the present time.
However this may be, the symbols in Feda's case, in
so far as they can be discovered, appear to be of a dif-
ferent nature from Topsy's ;
they are purely arbitrary and
artificial. For example relationship is sometimes symbohsed
by a pink line between the appearances of the two persons ;
a circle of light means that the person in connection with
whom it appears is helping somebody.
That Feda does receive a good deal more of her in-
formation by means of symbols than appears on the
surface may be suspected from an incident happening in
a sitting with Mr. Irving (not of this series) reported in
Proceedings, Vol. XXXVI.,
page 218. Feda says " the test
is mackintoshes and umbrellas, test is." Sitter. " Is
what ?
" Feda. " Means that. No she says water tight."
This looks like a case of a mistranslated symbol. Pro-
bably a search would discover more instances. In this
connection Mr. Drayton Thomas's article in Proceedings,
Vol. XXXVIII. , is important.
Now there are two alternatives : the impressions may
be received by the medium in a symbolic form, in which
case the process of symbohsation is an external one ; or
else the translation into symbols is effected internally in
the receptor stratum of the medium's consciousness, or
at some jioint between that and Topsy (or, when there
is no trance, Mrs. Elliott).
If the facts are taken at their face value the first of
these alternatives is suggested. Topsy always speaks as
though the communicator were using symbols ; thus she
will say, " Doesn't know what him's giving but him's
showing Topsy so and so."
This view, if adopted, lends considerable weight to the
spiritistic hypothesis, for if the process of symbohsation is
effected externally to the medium, it appears as if there
must be an active, intelligent indejoendent source from
which the information is derived. This, combined with
the memory necessary for the supply of the information,
is a sufficiently good description of a consciousness of the
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 125
same type as the human, so that the source might well
be the surviving spirit of a deceased person. Personal
identity is, of course, not proved, but a long step in
that direction is taken.
Doubtless it is some dim appreciation of this reasoning
that leads mediums to use language which suggests the
view that symbohsm is of external origin. It is not
suggested, in Mrs. Elliott's case at any rate, that this is
consciously or deliberately done, but it seems reasonable
to suppose that the personal convictions and mental
attitude of the " normal " medium will be, in some
measure, reflected in her trance utterances.
But the evidence, on closer scrutiny, seems to show
that the symbohsm is not of external origin. It is found
as a fact that Topsy and Mrs. Elliott have one set of
symbols which are in use for all sitters and communi-
cators. Feda has another different set, though she some-
times uses the same sjmibol for relationship as employed by
Topsy, viz. the figure of the ostensible communicator coming
near to the sitter. If the symbolism were externally generated
we should expect to find a communicator using the same
symbols with both Topsy and Feda ;
moreover, it is
extremely unlikely that all communicators should hit upon
the same symbols in communicating their information
—
individual differences would be bound to occur. In the
case of Feda in particular it is highly improbable that
different commvinicators should all hit upon the same
arbitrary symbols.
In view of these considerations the more tenable hypo-
thesis seems to be that the translation into symbols is
effected by the medium herself, that is to say by some
stratum of her subconscious mind. That analogous
processes of synibohsation are of frequent occurrence the
researches of Freud and Jung have abundantly proved.
Whatever attitude may be adopted towards their special
theories, there can be no question that they have shown
that synibohsation plays a large part in the providing
the material of dreams. We have already seen reason
for allying the phenomena of trance communications with
the normal dream, or rather with hypnagogic visions ; it
126 H. F. Saltmarsli, [part
is, therefore, only a natural corollary that symbolisation
should play its part in both.
That that stratum of the medium's consciousness
which receives the impressions, called the receptor
stratum, is not the same as that stratum which is per-
sonified as Topsy, or, if Topsy is considered to be an
independent entity, is functioning when she is in control,
is proved by the fact that symbols are frequently not
understood. She sometimes says definitely that she
" does not understand the symbol he is giving." The
groping which has already been noticed takes place on
these occasions. Topsy frequently suggests alternative
meanings. Some instances of these were given on p. 50,
particularly the one quoted from S.P. 17, where the
symbol of black means either worry or the death of
someone.
It is a common feature of trance communications that
there seems to be great difficulty in getting through
proper names. This fact fits in with the theory here
suggested. Proper names are, as a rule, not amenable
to symbolisation : they have denotation, but no connota-
tion. It seems probable also that this feature renders
them difficult to transmit by telepathy. Judging from
Topsy's attempts to give names, and the mistakes she
makes when doing so, there are two methods used to
convey them to her ; the more common is the auditory,
but she also sometimes appears to get the letters as a
visual appearance. In the former case she will make
mistakes in pronunciation, e.g. in A.S. 40 she gives
Rubecca, then correctly Rebecca, or she will give alterna-
tive letters having the same sound, such as B. and P.,
and remark that she does not know which is right.
It seems that the readiest method of conveying impres-
sions from the receptor stratum is by means of pictorial
imagery, and this constitutes a good reason for the
extensive employment of symbols. Where this method
fails, or for some reason is not practicable, auditory
impressions may be used. The article already referred
to in Proc. 8.P.R., Vol. XXXVIII., July 1928, by Mr.
Drayton Thomas should be consulted on this point.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 127
In view of the above it is submitted that the following
conclusions may be accepted as provisionally estabhshed.
(1) The impressions are received by a stratum of the
subconscious mind of the medium other than that func-
tioning as Topsy or with Topsy, i.e. the trance conscious-
ness.
(2) They are transmitted from this receptor stratum
largely by means of symbohc visual imagery. A smaller
part is transmitted as auditory impressions.
The question now arises whether the impressions are
already in the form of symbols when received by the
receptor stratum.
If this were the case there would have to be a trans-
lation from the s^^mbols in which they were received into
their meaning, and then retranslation into another set of
symbols.
While it is not impossible that this double translation
may occur, it seems rather comphcated and round-about.
If a simpler hypothesis can be found it should be pre-
ferred.
The hypothesis here suggested is tha,t the impressions
are received as " meanings," that is to say, not expressed
in words, pictures or any other form of symbols.
A point in support of this theory is that the medium
frequently reproduces in herself the conditions of the
ostensible communicator ; for example, in S.P. 20, where
the communications purported to come from a man who
had died from a tumour on the bi'ain, she complained of
severe headache on waking up from the trance ; in many
cases she speaks as though she actually felt the conditions
she describes. These conditions, or rather the impres-
sions concerning them, would be of the type which is not
habitually symbohsed, nor is it easy to see how symbols
of the sort usually used could be found. These instances
look like impressions received and transmitted direct.
In some of the experimental cases of telepathy there is
reason to think that information is sometimes transmitted
direct, without translation into words or other symbols,
for example, the telepathic transfer of tastes, shght local
pains, etc. In so far as there is evidence for this it
128 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
supports the theory now under discussion. The matter,
however, is as yet by no means definitely settled, and
further research might advantageously be undertaken. It
seems not impossible to devise experiments v/hich should,
if successful, provide crucial proof on this point. If
telepathic transfer of an idea not translatable into visual
symbols could be obtained between two persons who had
no language in common, we should have to adopt a very
strained and round-about explanation to avoid the con-
clusion that a " meaning " had been sent direct.
We may then add a third clause to our hypothesis,
viz. That the impression received by the receptor stratum
is received as a meaning, that is to say the process is a
purely psychical one—not expressed in language or other
sensory impressions.
It may further be suggested—though this may be
accounted as a somewhat fanciful extension which goes
beyond the evidence—that the receptor stratum of the
medium's consciousness lies below or beyond the point at
which differentiation into the various senses occurs, that
is to say a meaning would not be visual, auditory,
olfactory, sapid or tactual, but just plain meaning. The
mode of consciousness of this stratum would be analogous
to that attached to the primitive unspecialised irritability
of protoplasm, though it might be so far evolved as to
be definitely human.
That some such vestigial remains of earlier forms of
consciousness may be found in human minds seems not
unhkely when one considers the analogy with the human
body in tliis respect. Also, it cannot be denied that we
do retain vestiges of instincts which have long ceased to
have any value to us. However, the matter is so specula-
tive that further discussion would be out of place.
There is one further point in connection with the
reception and transmission of externally generated impres-
sions. One of the most striking features of communications
received through trance mediums is their disjointedness.
This is particularly apparent with Topsy—she jumps
abruptly from one subject to another with no observable
associative links. Now if the information were received as
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 129
definite messages from an external source one would expect
to find more continuity in the communications, and to be
able sometimes to detect the associative links which lead
from one topic to another.
Suggested Analogy with certain Physical Processes.
To account for this phenomenon the following concep-
tion of the mode of transfer of the impressions to the
receptor stratum is suggested. The process is likened to
the physical phenomenon called osmosis. If a tube con-
taining" a solution of sugar, having the end closed by a
porous membrane, is immersed in water, it will be found
that the water will penetrate the membrane, causing a
rise of pressure in the tube. This is called osmotic
pressure. The phenomenon occurs with a large number of
different liquids besides that named.
It is suggested that the mind from which the informa-
tion is derived somehow gets into contact with that of
the medium, the place of contact in each case being a
stratum of the subconscious mind. The precise nature,
or to continue to use the spatial metaphor, the locahty
of this stratum in the case of the medium has already
(see pp. 126-128) been suggested. Some parts of the contents
of the source mind passes by infiltration into the mmd of
the medium and there is an interminghng of contents ;
the process, however, so far as we know, takes place ni
one direction only.
There is probably some amount of selectivity exercised
by the source mind which tends to cause certain parts
of its contents to pass more readily, so that we find
occasionally something that looks like a definite message,
but the bulk of the stuff which gets through appears to
be fortuitously determined. This process may be imagined
as consisting in the endowment of certain ideas in the
source mind with a higher degree of conative energy,
which gives them greater mobility than the rest, thus
tending to bring them up against the dividing membrane
more frequently and with greater velocity, thereby increas-
ing their chances of getting through. This is, of course,
going beyond the parallel of osmosis.
130 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
It is fully recognised that the language used in making
this suggestion has been unblushingly spatial and material,
ideas have been spoken of as independent things which
move about in space, and the two minds concerned as
though they were closed vessels. No doubt this would
be considered as scandalous by most psychologists, except
perhaps the more ardent of the behaviourist school, but
it is intended as a highly allegorical picture and not as
an even partially exact description.
Moreover, it is, after all, only an extreme instance of
what inevitably is the case in psychology : our ideas of
psychological processes are borrowed from the physical
world, and psj^chological hypotheses are no more than
analogies with those of physics.
Bearing this disclaimer in mind, and reserving the right
to change the metaphor as often as seems desirable, we
may proceed.
The infiltration of ideas from the source mind into that
of the medium causes a rise of pressure in the latter,
analogous to osmotic pressure. We may imagine the
receptor stratum of the medium's mind as a vessel in
which there is surging about a crowd of ideas striving to
find a way out. Some of these are ideas belonging to
the medium and internal^ generated ; this would be the
dream stuff or rather the hypnagogic stuff which, as has
been suggested, forms the background of the whole thing ;
mixed up with these is a certain amount of externally
generated matter, i.e. ideas derived from the source mind
which have entered by the process of psychical osmosis.
Seeing that the membrane dividing the latter from the
former permits passage in only one direction, the only
means of escape is therefore upwards towards the trance
stratum, in this particular case towards Topsy.
Now the channels leading in this direction are not free
and unhindered. We have seen reason for thinking that
impressions of a certain type are most readily transmitted
in the form of symbols, and it is suggested that the
condition necessary for their emergence from the receptor
stratum is the availabihty of suitable symbols.
Another jjhysical phenomenon may be employed as an
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. . 131
allegorical picture of what may be supposed to occur. It
is possible to super-saturate the air in a closed vessel
with water vapour. This vapour remains in a state of
suspension provided there are no nuclei available for its
condensation. If nuclei are formed within the vessel, as,
for example, by ionisation by ultra-violet light or similar
means, the water vapour will condense on them and fall
as a shower of drops. We may imagine the receptor
stratum of the medium's mind as being in a state of
psychical super-saturation, the whole crowd of ideas and
impressions would remain in a state of suspension until
suitable nuclei for condensation were found ; such a
nucleus would be an internally generated idea cajjable of
acting as a symbol. When such appears, the externally
generated impression is carried to the surface, externalised
by Topsy, and retranslated from the symbols into her
own words.
Or the suggestion ma,\ be put another way. The ideas
in the receptor stratum are prevented from rising to the
trance stratum by the normally high synaptic resistance
of the neural channels. Some of these channels, however,
will have a somewhat lower synaptic resistance than the
rest, viz. those which have already been the path of
nervous discharge.
Any idea associated with that of which the original
discharge was the neural concomitant ^ will tend to pass
along these paths. If, therefore, any impression received
from the outside is able to seize upon a suitable symbol
which has available through association an already exist-
ing path of low synaptic resistance, it will stand a chance
of escaping along that path to the trance stratum.
Those impressions or ideas which are highly charged
with conative energy may occasionally be able, in virtue
of that energy, to force their way up against the high
resistance of the synapses. This would be the case
where a direct message is successfully communicated.
With regard to the type of impression which appears
1 This word is used "without prejudice," and must not be taken to
imply adherence to any form of psycho-physical theory, whether of the
parallelist or interactionist type.
132 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
to be capable of being internally transmitted without
recourse to symbols, it will be observed that they are
mostly of a relatively simple and uncomplicated nature.
It is the complex physical events which require symbolism.
The mind is habituated to deal with the former ideas in
their pure form ; it seems reasonable, therefore, to sup-
pose that they would be likely to find suitable paths of
low resistance available for them owing to the former
passage of similar ideas, more likely, that is to say, than
would any idea of a complex physical event.
Possible explanation of some of the phenomena observed.
It must be repeated that this is only a kind of alle-
gorical picture of the way in which it may be imagined
that the impressions are received and transmitted. By
means of it, however, we can suggest an explanation of
many of the phenomena observed.
1st. The disjointedness and lack of continuity in the
communications. If success in getting through from the
receptor stratum is dependent on the finding of a suitable
path of low resistance we should expect to find this dis-
jointedness. There would be no logical order in the
impressions which came up, but a perfectly haphazard
stream, as one here and one there succeeded in finding
its path of escape.
2nd. The " spirits " do not tell us what we should
expect from them. The salient facts of their history are
frequently omitted and trivial details given.
If the process of reception is analogous to osmosis, and
the receptor stratum receives its impressions from the
outside by a kind of infiltration, then only a fraction of
the contents of the source mind would pass into that of
the medium, the salient facts might be left behind.
Moreover, there is the further possibihty that they might
be unable to emerge from the receptor stratum even when
they had succeeded in getting there.
3rd. The errors and mistatements which occur so fre-
quently.
If the impressions which are received from the outside
are carried up to the trance consciousness along with a
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 133
stream of internally generated hypnogogic stuff, the
result is bound to be a mixture of false with the true.
The question of the source and nature of the non-
veridical matter will be fully discussed presently.
4th. Deferred impressions.
These can be simply explained as impressions received
from the outside which have failed during the course of
the sitting to escape from the receptor stratum, and
have remained latent therein until a favourable oppor-
tunity at a subsequent sitting has enabled them to arise
to the trance stratum.
5th. Reminiscence.
If it be true reminiscence, it has its origin above the
level of the receptor stratum, but it is possible that an
impression in the receptor stratum may give rise to a
communication on two different occasions. Here it
becomes apparent how misleading ma}^ be the parallels
drawn between physical and psychical phenomena. In
what has gone before ideas or impressions were spoken of
as individual things existing in their own skins, being in
one place at one time and capable of moving to another
place, in fact, as behaving as if they were particles of
matter.
It is sometimes difficult to bear in mind that this is
not really the case : an idea is not a thing, it is rather
a process, nor must the word process be here understood
in the physical sense ; ideas and all psychical entities are
entirely sui generis, and obey laws and are subject to
conditions of their own.
It was probably tacitly assumed by all who have read
the foregoing allegorical description that an idea having
escaped from the receptor stratum is no longer there.
This is not necessarily the case, it may have arisen to
the trance stratum in the sense that it has given rise
to a veridical communication, and yet it may still remain
in the receptor stratum in the sense that it may at a
future time give rise to a further veridical statement.
Perhaps the nearest analogy is to a flame ; the flame
of a candle may give rise to an unlimited number of
other flames and yet remain where it was, unaltered by
134 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
having done so ;
only, in using this parallel, we must
supj)ose that the flame of the candle has its own peculiar
characteristics, and that it communicates these charac-
teristics to all the other flames to which it gives rise.
Or the analogy of mirror images might be employed.
An object can give rise to any number of images if the
mirrors are available.
From this it may be seen that similar communications
may be made at different sittings arising from the same
impression in the receptor stratum ; these would be in-
distinguishable from true reminiscences, which are the
reproduction by memory of communications already given.
6th. Cliches.
A theory of the origin of cliches may be founded on
this speculation. If we accept the principle of specific
substances at the synapses as the causes of the specific
character of the neural discharge, we may suppose that
some of the patlis of low resistance leading from the
receptor stratum to the trance stratum pass through arcs,
the synapses of which have specific substances of such a
nature that any discharge through these arcs gives rise
in consciousness to a certain idea. As an example, take
the cliche cited before, viz. the black ring with an
animal standing up. We must suppose that there is a
neural arc with synapses having the specific substance
which gives rise to this idea, and that the resistance of
this arc being relatively low it forms an easy path for
the escape of ideas in the receptor stratum, and is there-
fore likely to be frequently used by ideas having the
requisite similarity.
If the principle of specific synaptic substances be not
accepted, or if tliis be considered an undue extension of
the principle, we can simply say that cliches arise from
peculiarly strong associations in the mind of the medium
such that they tend to be frequently excited, leaving the
modus operandi of the excitation ixnexplained.
In suggesting this hypothesis to account for the recep-
tion and transmission of impressions from external sources
the writer is fully aware of its fanciful and speculative
nature. It is crude and undigested. It must be left
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 135
to the readers to judge whether it be provisionally
acceptable or not ; if the former, further research is
indicated as desirable in order that the hypothesis may
be modified, refined and rendered more definite ; its
details will doubtless require much amendment, and
probably more suitable language and more apt parallels
may be found.
If it be rejected an alternative is still to seeK:.
Probable origin of Non-veridical matter.
There now remains only to give some account of the
probable origin and nature of the non-veridical matter.
It arises from several sources, most of which have
already been discussed in connection with other matters,
such as reminiscence, etc. It will suffice, therefore, if
they be simply enumerated in this place.
First in order of magnitude must be placed Dream or
Hypnagogic vision. Probably the largest part of the non-
veridical matter is of this nature. Of those which follow
it is impossible to say which is of greater importance.
They are reminiscence, deferred impression when unrecog-
nised, intrusion of unrecognisable communicators, mis-
translation of symbols. Concerning this last it may be
advisable to say a few words.
It is not only that Topsy does not always know the
correct interpretation to put upon a symbol, but symbols
are sometimes mistaken for non-symbolic messages. This
is probably the case, for example, with the frequent
references to digging. The visual hallucination of the
ostensible communicator digging is almost certainly sym-
bolic, but we do not know of what. As Topsy evidently
shares our ignorance she simply gives it as a statement
of fact.
It is, of course, all more or less a matter of surmise,
as there is no certain indication of what is symbohc and
what not. However, it seems probable that this consti-
tutes an occasional cause of error in the communications.
Sometimes it is obvious that Topsy does not under-
stand, in fact she says so herself ; this has been discussed
under " Groping."
136 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
In addition to the above sources of error it may well
be that the receptor stratum of the medium's mind picks
up stray impressions unconnected with the sitter or con-
tributor of the relic ; that this does sometimes occur is
shown by the fairly frequent references to the notetaker
and her affairs ;
probably also the references to Miss
Newton are of this nature, though here the matter is
comphcated by the distinction which must be drawn
between information received telepathically and that
obtained by clairvoyance. This, however, comes under
the heading of Psychical Research. Whether there is any
truth in the suggestion of broadcast telepathy this is
not the place for any attempt to determine, but should
it be a vera causa, that is to say, should there be
loose telepathic messages wandering about and liable to
be picked up by any suitably tuned receiver, this would
constitute a further cause of error, though were all tele-
pathy broadcast the confusion arising would probably be
so great that the percentage of veridical matter in A.S.
sittings would be lower than it is.
If the suggestion of the nature of the mode of reception
of the impressions be correct, that is to say, the theory
called psychical osmosis, it seems probable that a good
deal of error may arise from the mixture of the stuff
in the receptor stratum. We might expect to get
composite images, and as a fact these do sometimes appear
to occur ; a symbol might serve for two or more impres-
sion'^, items might be ascribed to the wrong communicator,
gaps hi a description either of a place or person or
event might be filled up with material drawn from other
sources, such as the hypnagogic stuff contained in the
receptor stratum, non-relevant externally generated impres-
sions or Topsy's own exuberant fancy.
And last but not least there are the errors arising
from the personal idiosyncracy of the annotators. This
cuts both ways. iSome annotators are so ingenious in
finding correspondences that their results require a heavy
discount, others are so refractory that they will not see
anything but the most direct hits.
This, of all sources of error, is the most difficult to
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 137
deal with, and it is a difficulty that constantly occurs in
all forms of psychical research. It would seem that the
only possible method of eliminating this error is to
multiply the number of cases, sitters and annotators, to
such a degree that the individual variations average out.
It is obvious that the number dealt with in this experi-
ment falls far short of that required. A certain amount
of compensation can be applied by the judgment of the
scorer, but this is, of necessity, very imperfect, and
introduces a further source of variation, viz. his own
personal idiosyncrasy.
It may be argued that the error introduced by the
personal factor in the annotation will tend rather to
reduce the score than to increase it, and this indepen-
dently of the proportion which the credulous annotators
bear to the sceptical. The scorer is bound to criticise the
hits, and in a good many cases to apply a severe dis-
count to the enthusiasm of the too ingenious annotator.
As a matter of fact, in this case quite a number of
sittings have had to be rejected altogether or treated as
valueless becau^se the annotations appeared to be un-
trustworthy, far-fetched or fanciful ; in some of these
sittings there was unquestionably some amount of
veridical matter, but it was impossible from the data
available to determine how much.
Except in the case of a simple statement a plain
" Yes " is not deemed sufficient. Where an incident is
annotated as veridical some account of the actual event is
required, and the scorer has to judge how far the annota-
tion can be accepted. Any alteration is always a deduction.
On the other hand, with those annotators who err in
the opposite direction the data for the scorer by means
of which he could criticise the annotations are entirely
lacking. As a rule the annotator simply passes by with-
out comment those statements which are rejected as
non-veridical, or is contented with the simple assertion
of their irrelevance. To criticise this negative evidence
the scorer would require an intimate and highly detailed
knowledge of the past history of the annotator, which,
of course, he does not possess.
138 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part 11
In a few cases it has happened that statements have oi
been rejected in one sitting which, taken in the hght of a(
the facts given by the same annotator in another sitting,
should have been counted as veridical. ci
It also happens sometimes that the annotator, on thinking o
over again the statements made by the medium, perceives q
the relevance of some which were previously rejected. We
have no guarantee that these second thoughts are always n
given, or that in the event of their failure, third or t
fourth thoughts might not succeed. What this amounts 1;
to is that lapse of memory on the part of the annotator I
is hable to act in the direction of reducing the score. t
Probably false memory does sometimes operate in the i
opposite direction, but the magnitude of this factor would
be less than that of plain forgetting.
A suggestion is made in an appendix to this report of t
a possible means by which this and similar errors might
be to some extent counteracted. i
Before concluding this part of the report two interesting ]
but extremely puzzhng incidents must be mentioned, i
They illustrate very well the perplexities w^hich assail the
psychical researcher, and the difficulty of finding hypo-
theses to cover all the facts.
In A.S. 90 Miss X.'s communicator intrudes. The
physical description is good in parts, but contains a fair
number of inaccuracies : by itself it would be insufficient
to estabhsh identity. His Christian name and that of
his daughter is correctly given ; the first is so common
a name that it has no evidential value ; the second,
though a usual name, is not what would be called
common, it occurs only on two other occasions in the
whole series. A few commonplace veridical remarks are
made, then, after a good deal of irrelevant matter, there
comes the " More rice, never tired " incident. Some
more veridical statements are made, and a good deal
of non-veridical matter concludes the sitting.
This may seem a slender basis on which to assume an
intrusion, although two or three of the statements are of
the definite class. If it had stood alone it would have |
been rejected, but seeing that there are other instances I
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 139
of intrusion with this communicator it was provisionally
accepted as such.
The following non-veridical correspondences, however,
confirm this conclusion, and it is the nature and cause
of these that constitutes the puzzhng problem now in
question.
Before the " rice " incident there was a non-veridical
reference to India, etc. The communicator was then said
to have been in the habit of reading in a " funny
language, funny writing, looks Uke no letters at all."
Later he is said to have been interested in the stars ;
the name Geraldine is then given in connection with
music.
All these references are incorrect for this communicator.
The date of the sitting was June 17, 1927. The note-
taker was Miss H.
On November 17, 1927, Miss X. had an anonymous
sitting with Mrs. Dowdall at Cardiff, at which her father
purported to communicate. Some amount of evidential
matter was given, and then the medium said, " Could
your father speak languages ?
" Sitter. " No." Medium.
" What are those funny letters then ? I see him writing
like httle crooks, funny letters, twists and turns. Almost
like shorthand but it isn't that." In the same sitting
it was also said that he was interested in the stars ; and
at a previous sitting, held the day before, with the same
medium, the name Gerald was given in connection with
music.
There is thus a good correspondence between the
sittings, but the matter is all non-veridical.
So far as can be ascertained IVIiss X. had not seen the
record of the first sitting when she attended the second
set. This point is, unfortunately, not quite certain.
It is difficult to suggest any explanation for these
facts—the chance that two independent mediums should
both have hit on the same set of fictitious statements is
practically nil. The only hypotheses which can be put
forward to explain the facts are all so compHcated, and
involve such an amount of cross-references, that they are
practically untenable. For example, we might suppose
140 H. F. SaUmarsh. [part
that Miss H , the notetaker in the Elhott sitting,
unconsciously transmits telepatliically the information to
Miss X., although she was ignorant that the sitting
had any reference to her. Miss X. preserves this in-
formation in her subconsciousness, it never having come
to the surface, and Mrs. Dowdall draws her information
therefrom.
We can hardly put forward the explanation of mis-
translation of symbols, because the two mediums are not
likely to have the same set of symbols, and the chance
that these particular ones should be mistranslated in both
cases is very small. Moreover, the name Gerald or
Geraldine would not be conveyed symbolically.
Those who hold the spiritistic hypothesis can, of course,
explain it quite easily ;
they may say that the statements
refer to some companion of the dead man who is with
him on the spirit plane, the only mistake being in attri-
buting them to him, though why the mistake should
have been twice made is a little curious. Possibly other
more plausible modes of explanation might be given on
this hypothesis, but it must be remembered that the
spiritistic hypothesis is so wide that it can be made to
cover almost anything.
The second case is equally, if not more, puzzling.
In a series of sittings with a Mrs. T. as sitter, or
contributor of the relics, there occurs a complicated set
of correspondences of a non-veridical nature.
In A.S. 14, 24, 53, 72, and S P 39, reference is made
to a tumble-down or ruined building; in A.S. 11, 24,
and 8. P. 39 to Egypt ; in A.S. 33 and 42 to a deserted
country ; in A.S. 6G and 72 to Algeria ; in A.S. 42 and
74 to mining operations ; in A.S. 24 and 42 to the Navy ;
in A.S. 24 and 72 to an airman ; in A.S. 42 and 72 to
an organ. The name Arthur occurs in A.S. 33 and 42,
Michael in A.S. 11 and 83, and Mitchell in A.S. 72,
Roger in A.S. 14 and 24.
In six out of the twelve sittings reference was made to
Miss Newton.
Some of these correspondences may be explained as
being cliches ; all the names are fairly common through-
112] Sittings tvith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 141
out the whole series of sittings, references to " deserted
country " are fairly common, to airmen quite common.
But the others are not so explicable. They may be
mistranslated symbols, seeing all the sittings are with the
same medium, but the suggestion is not very satisfactory.
The wisest course seems to be to admit defeat and
leave the matter as an unsolved puzzle.
The rather high number of references to Miss Newton
is curious. With this sitter they occur in 50 per cent,
of the sittings, in the entire series they occur in about
20 per cent
There is a suggestion of a cause for this peculiarity in
some of the sittings which Mrs. T. had with Mrs. Leonard
(not included in this case). The ostensible communicator,
Mr. T., states that he is working with Mr. Irving's com-
municator to give good evidence, and also that he will
try to give it through the Society. In an early sitting,
before Mrs. T. had joined the S.P.R., he purported to
say, "Go to I. N., she will help." Neither the sitter nor
Feda appeared to understand the reference.
Many of the references to ]\Iiss Newton are veridical,
and show what seems to be supernormal knowledge of her
affairs and incidents happening at the offices of the
Society ; there is also some correspondence with references
given in a sitting which Mr. Irving had with Mrs. Leonard.
The following are some of the references
:
A.S. IL Miss Newton's Notes.
TorsY. You are hav- No, I suggested a few days
ing more shelves or cup- before the sitting that we
boards put up in Miss should have a long shelf put
Isabel's room. in the office.
NoTETAKER. I dou't Possiblc correspondence with
think so, I will ask her. Irving-Leonard sitting {Proc.
T. Shows cupboards or S.P.R., Vol. XXXVI, pp. 203-
shelves put in. Looks 5).
like . . . lightish coloured
wood.
T. Shows Miss Isabel I turned up and hemmed a
turning up dress at bot- dress at the bottom the
tom. evening before the sitting.
142 H. F. Saltmarsh. [PAET
There are also some references in this sitting which are
veridical, but of a private nature.
S.P. 9.
T. Doesn't know what
him means, him says Miss
Isabel can't eat, lost her
appetite.
A.S. 24.
Medium. Has Miss
Newton had rheumatism
in her leg or hurt her
leg?
I do not remember losing
my appetite except on the
cruise (her holiday), when I
got very tired of the food
toward the end {i.e. between
August 23-30). I missed
several meals and stayed on
deck.
Note.
Irving-Leonard sitting, 20th
September, 1926.
Feda. You know Mrs.
Isabel. ... I am not sure if
its knees or legs . . . about
hurts to the knee.
Not veridical.
The explanation suggested in the T. -Leonard sitting
above referred to seems to point to a spiritistic hypothesis,
but it is quite possible that the idea of co-operation
originated with Feda—it is quite in accord with her usual
trend of thought. Mrs. T. would have preserved a
memory of the suggestion, and this may have operated
to direct the clairvoyant faculty of Mrs. Elhott or Topsy
towards Miss Newton.
The difference between the frequency of these references
in this particular sub-case and the whole series is 5 to 2 ;
this is not so great as definitely to exclude chance, and
it may be simply a coincidence that they are relatively
more numerous with this sitter than with others. How-
ever, that it should be coupled with the suggestion that
this communicator should attempt this form of co-
operation is at least curious.
This concludes the discussion on the psychological aspect
of the case.
112] Sitthigs with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 143
B. Psychical Research.
The principal point at issue for psychical research is
that of the source of the communications ; at the back
of all subsidiary questions lies that of survival.
It is not suggested that the evidence contained herein
is in the smallest degree conclusive in this matter, in
fact it must be admitted that, so far as evidence for the
continuance of conscious existence after death is concerned,
the case is disappointing.
After much consideration it was decided that the
best way to deal with this part of the subject was to
enumerate the various hypotheses which have at any
time been put forward, and to discuss how they fit the
facts of the present case.
By this method it seemed possible to extract the fullest
value from the material available ; it might prove that
some of the hypothesis might be almost eliminated, others
rendered doubtful, and others partially confirmed.
The utmost that can be looked for is the arrangement
of the current hypotheses in an order of probabihty.
The method adopted here is the apphcation of the
facts to the hypothesis, the alternative being the applica-
tion of the hj^potheses to the facts.
Now it may be taken for granted that all hypotheses
which have seriously been suggested have some basis of
fact behind them ; the object in view being to test their
vaKdity, it seems more economical of effort to select
from our heterogeneous mass of facts those which appear
to confirm or refute, than to take the mass as it stands
and attempt an hypothesis to cover it.
In one case we start with an orderly framework and
try to fit in the pieces, in the other we take a jumble
of pieces and try to arrange them like a jigsaw puzzle.
If it should appear that this method of deahng with
the facts of this case is, even in a small degree, fruitful
of results, it can be employed as a skeleton technique in
other cases where the material is richer.
The hypotheses with which we have to deal may be
arranged into four groups, one of which, viz. the last,
144 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
contains so many varieties, all of which are so extremely
nebulous in character that it will be possible to do very
little with theories which come under this heading.
The groups are (1) Normal.
(2) Supernormal faculty.
(3) Survivalist.
(4) Mystical.
Under Group (1) come all explanations by chance, fraud,
fishing, etc.
Under Group (2) come all hypotheses which rely on the
operation of a supernormal faculty. It includes (a)
Telepathy, {b) Clairvoyance, (c) Object reading (old term,
Psychometry).
It also covers all such theories as Osty's. The writer
of this report evolved independently a somewhat similar
theory. On reading Dr. Osty's book, La Connaissance
Supranormale, he perceived the substantial identity of the
two theories. It will be called, then, Osty's theory, and
his account of it will be quoted ;
possible modifications
and extensions may be suggested.
Group (3). Survivalist theories. [a) We have, first,
theories of the type suggested by Dr. Walter Leaf and
Dr. Broad ; these postulate a sort of partial survival or
persistence of memory elements.
{h) Survivalist theories proper. These are the spiritistic
theories of all degrees of refinement or crudity.
Group (4). Mystical theories. This class is the most
troublesome to deal with, the theories being—as has been
said—nebulous and difficult to grasp. There is no guid-
ing principle by means of which they may be classified,
so that there is no possibility of satisfying oneself that
the whole ground has been covered. Entirely fresh forms
may at any time be suggested. The only two which
will be even briefly mentioned here are the theories
of Cosmic Consciousness and the Theosophic Theory of
Akashic Records.
Criticism of theories of this tyi)e is bound to be unsatis-
factory. The essence of mysticism is that it is mystical,
which implies that it cannot be described in ordinary
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 145
language, but can only be apprehended by a special
faculty, the possession of which constitutes a person a
mystic. Those who, like the writer, lay no claim to
possessing this faculty in the very smallest degree cannot
hope to understand these theories, and to criticise that
which one does not understand, though not an altogether
unknown procedure, is hardly one to commend itself to
anyone who aspires to be scientific.
The theories will be discussed in the order given,
although a certain amount of overlapping is unavoidable.
Group I. Normal.
As regards the first group, the most important of
these, viz. chance, has already been referred to in the
preface. What has been there said need not be repeated,
but a few amplifying details of the experiments may be
given
.
There were nineteen A.S. sittings selected for the
second experiment (see p. 51), all of which had given
fairly good results with the original contributors or as
intrusion sittings.
There was no instance of any one of these consistently
giving scores for chance.^ The highest average score was
20%, being made up as follows : 0, 0, 41, 17, 41, real
score was 55% ; the next highest was 0, 14, 61, 0,
12 = 17%, real score 71%. From this it may be argued
that the high chance scores were not due to any pecu-
liarity in the matter of the sittings.
It is held by some that a fraudulent medium can pro-
duce a spurious appearance of the possession of super-
normal faculty by the judicious selection of commonplace
remarks, combined with an acute observation of the
sitter and a quickness to seize upon and utilise hints and
shght indications. This may well be true.
The particular series before us, however, being all Absent
Sitter sittings, observation of the sitter is ruled out, and it
seems probable that the artificial nature of a sitting made
up entirely of commonplaces would be apparent on the
surface.
1 For system of scoring see p. 59.
K
146 H. F. SaltmarsJi. [part
Not only is it the fact that these communications
were not composed entirely of commonplace remarks, but
the figures of this chance experiment show that no one
particular sitting was better adapted than the rest for
giving high chance scores. With the exception of one,
which happened to be used once only for pseudo-anno-
tation, there was no case of any of these nineteen
sittings escaping one or more zero scores.
The following diagrams have been drawn to exhibit
graphically the results of this second chance experiment.
They are given in the form of the usual graph, although
the subject-matter is not strictly speaking susceptible to
that form of treatment. The graph properly shows the
locus of a point governed by two variables which are
proportioned to the co-ordinates. In this case there is
only one variable, but for the purpose of showing the
results graphically the horizontal co-ordinate has been
replaced by a purely arbitrary arrangement of the sittings ;
they are, in fact, arranged in order of date, thus each
horizontal division represents a single sitting or set of
sittings. The diagram should properly have been a
series of vertical lines only, but it was thought that a
curve would be more conspicuous and show the desired
comparison more clearly.
The diagrams marked A. are for each separate pseudo-
annotator ; that marked B. is for all the annotators, but
in this case each horizontal division stands for the set
of sittings which he annotated, and the scores are the
average. The dotted line is for real scores, the black
line for chance scores. There is a certain superficial
appearance of parallelism between the real and chance
curves in certain of these diagrams, notably A. 5, 6, 7, 9,
11 and 12, but a closer inspection shows that it is more
apparent than real. , It would be unsafe to draw any
conclusions from it.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliolt. 147
The following table shows the various chance and real
scores for each sitting :
^
Sitting. Real score. Chance scores. Averages.
A.S. 5 55% 0, 0, 41, 17, 41 = 20%
A.S. 10 40% 0, 0, 0, 36 = 9%
A.S. 26 79% 0, 0, 46 = 15%
A.S. 31 64% 0, 3, 9, 1 = 4%
A.S. 35 32% 0, 0, 38, 10, 1 = 10%
A.S. 40 79% 0, 38, 0 = 13%
A.S. 44 53% 0, 3, 0, 0, 0 = 1%
A.S. 51 67% 0, 0, 0, 22 = 5%
A.S. 54 71% 0, 14, 61, 0, 12 = 17%
A.S. 55 65% 0, 6, 28, 0, 3 = 7%
A.S. 61 62% 0, 0, 0, 11, 14, 0, 0, 0, 0= 3%
A.S. 66 85% 0, 0, 18, 6, 0, 0 = 4%
A.S. 70 54% 19, 0 — no/
— •-'
/o
A.S. 73 46% 0, 0, 10, 0, 14, 15 = 6%
A.S. 79 55% 10 = 10%
A.S. 85 68% 0, 0, 10, 0, 0 = 2%
A.S. 87 58% 0, 0, 14, 0 = 4%
A.S. 89 55% 12, 0, 35 = 16%
A.S. 90 34% 10, 0, 24, 0, 0 = 7%
In addition to the two control experiments described
there was the fiirther attempt to obtain a comparison
with chance in the physical descriptions of ostensible
communicators. The following are two typical results.
Man described Man described 18 chance
20 times. 4 ti?nes. sittings.
General congruity 51-1% 56% 30-95%
Partial ,
,
12-1% 15% 11-9 %
Not inconsistent 2-2% 6% 3-95%
Inconsistent 5-4% 3% 25-0 %
Not stated 29-2% 20% 28-2%
1 The figures in the first column are the scores for the annotations
made by the actual sitter or contributor of the relic. Those in the
second are the scores for the annotations made by the persons who
participated in the Control experiment. The third column gives tlie
average of the figures in the second. All scores are calculated in the
manner described under the heading " Method of scoring," page 59.
148 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
It will be observed that while the percentage of general
congruity is not very much different in the chance sit-
tings, that of the inconsistent is considerably higher.
However, it cannot be said that the superiority to chance
is so overwhelming as to afford proof that chance alone
could not have been responsible for the phenomena.
It must be admitted, therefore, that the experiments
undertaken to test the hypothesis of chance are not
conclusive.
By this it must be clearly understood that although
chance is not definitely excluded it is by no means
proved that supernormal knowledge of some sort is
absent.
Apart from the objective proof which experiments such
as these are capable of providing, one may attain sub-
jective certainty, or at any rate conviction of high
probabiUty, from a study of the details of the case.
The grounds on which this conviction is based are not,
however, capable of being presented in a succinct and
easily assimilable form ; the judgment is an individual
one, and is only attainable by those who have studied
the records of the sittings in detail.
It is only possible to put on record the fact that a
prolonged study of the case has convinced the writer that
chance alone is not responsible for the veridical state-
ments contained therein, and to indicate briefly the type
of evidence on which he has formed his opinion.
1st. The fact that the average scores of the S.P.
sittings is more than double that of the A.S. The only
condition present in the former which is absent in the
latter is the actual presence of the sitter. It is, there-
fore, a logical inference that that factor is responsible for
the increase in veridical matter.
After making full allowance for normal causes, such as
information obtained by the medium from direct observa-
tion of the sitter, information given away by the sitter's
remarks, fishing, groping, and so on, there remains a sub-
stantial residuum which cannot be so accounted for. The
inference is that it is of supernormal origin.
2nd. A comparison of the quality of the evidence in
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 149
real sittings and pseudo-sittings. In the former, where
we have a number of sittings with the same sitter or
group of sitters, there is a considerable amount of con-
tinuity running through the series, the same ostensible
communicator appears again and again, there is psycho-
logical consistency between the various sittings and
correspondences between statements made in different
sittings.
Tliis is notably absent from the pseudo-sittings. The
chance coincidences are more scraj)py, we find different
ostensible communicators in different sittings or even in
the same sitting. The general impression derived from a
study of the evidence is that it presents the peculiar
characteristics of chance coincidence to a greater degree
than is apj)arent in the real sittings.
In scoring the pseudo-sittings one becomes aware of the
necessity of stretching coincidence to allow " hits."
3rd. In the real sittings we occasionally get statements
concerning events which are so accurate, and descriptions
of the characteristics of ostensible communicators, which
are so apt as practically to enforce the conviction that
chance alone cannot account for them ; for example, see
the character-sketch of Miss X.'s father given in the
extracts on page 81 et seq.
With nothing to guide her it seems impossible that the
medium should have been able by pure chance to des-
cribe with such accuracy so unusual a character and
state of family relationships as is there portrayed.
An attempt has been made to arrive at a more accurate
method of estimating the value of evidence.
Acknowledgment must be made to Mr. S. G. Soal, and
our thanks are due to him for the trouble he has taken
in giving the benefit of his mathematical knowledge and
also of his great experience in psychical research. As,
however, the formula which he has devised and the
reasoning on which it is based are of rather a technical
nature the matter will be dealt with separately.
The other normal sources of information, such as
dehberate invention, fishing, etc., have already been
discussed.
150 H. F. Salfmarsh. [part
Croup II. iSupernorbial Faculty.
The next set of hypotheses are those classed under the
heading of Supernormal Faculties, and of these telepathy
is the first to be discussed. It is assumed that telepathy
will be admitted as a vera causa ; there are still a few
die-hards who deny it, but the majority of those who
have given any attention to the evidence agree that even
if it be not rigorously proved, the case for it is very
strong ; the opinion of those who have not studied the
evidence is, of course, worthless.
By telepathy is meant the transmission of information
or impressions from one mind to another by means other
than the normal senses. The nature of the process is
obscure, but it would seem that two minds at least are
requisite, that is to say, the agent from whom the
information is derived and the percipient who receives it.
It appears at first sight logical to divide the phenomena
into two classes : first, those where the agent is active
and the percipient relatively passive—this would be
telepathy proper ; the second, where the percipient is
active and the agent relatively passive—this should,
strictly speaking, be called mind-reading. If, however,
there be any truth in the theory propounded earlier in
this report and called psychical osmosis, this classification
may be inapphcable ; both agent and percipient are
passive, except in so far as one or other of them esta-
blishes the necessary rapport.
From the evidence derived from experiments in tele-
pathy there is, nevertheless, some ground for holding that
intention to transmit a definite message has some efficacy
in getting that message through. Whether this is never
more than the endowment of the idea with a higher
degree of conative energy and in consequence greater
mobility, as was suggested in the osmosis theory, or
whether there is any definite act of sending a message,
seems impossible to determine. It might be said, how-
ever, in either case that the agent is in some way active.
It is possible that all mental activity depends on relative
conative potential. At the present stage of our know-
ledge the safest position ajjpears to be to allow provision-
112] Sittings tvith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 151
ally both types of activity to exist. The actual processes
employed in sending and receiving the messages un-
doubtedly belong to the subliminal part of the mind,
and are thus not open to inspection. It is doubtful
whether our most powerful instruments of research, viz.
hypnosis and psycho-analysis, can penetrate sufficiently
deeply to arrive at that stratum of consciousness which
is the theatre of the telepathic process, but it would be
extremely interesting if the attempt could be made.
As regards mind-reading we are on still more debatable
ground—the number of those who are prepared to accept
it as a vera causa is less than for telepathy. There is,
to begin with, an extremely strong instinctive repugnance
to the idea that the privacy of one's thoughts can be
invaded by an inquisitive intruder, and that one's memories,
both conscious and subconscious, can be ransacked.
From the point of view of the value for psychical
research of the evidence in communications purporting to
come from the surviving spirits of deceased human
beings, this question of the possibility and Mmitations of
mind-reading is of the highest importance, and one
cannot get very far without adopting a definite attitude
of acceptance or rejection towards it.
Pushed to its logical conclusion, the faculty of mind-
reading means that the contents of the minds and
memories, both conscious and subconscious, of all hving
beings are open to inspection by the possessor of that
faculty. This is little short of potential omniscience, and
although there have been some who, after mature con-
sideration, have accepted this position, in the opinion of
the writer almost any hypothesis should be preferred to
one which ascribes to the human mind powers so utterly
out of parallel with anything else we know about it and
hmitations so wide as to be almost non-existent.
Not only must all other possible hypotheses be tested,
but even in the event of their failing to cover the pheno-
mena, positive evidence of the clearest and strongest
description would have to be produced before such an
extension could be allowed to the normal powers of the
mind.
152 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
An hypothesis such as this cannot be cstahUslied by
default of the other candidates until we are certain that
all possible alternatives have been eliminated, and to
attain this certainty we should require to know a very
great deal more than we do. In our present state of
knowledge it is always possible that some new hypothesis
may be suggested.
Very different from the unrestricted power of mind-
reading, for which it is submitted there is no direct
evidence, is the very hmited kind which is suggested by
some of the facts of the sittings. This power, if it
exists at all, extends only to the reading of some
parts of the contents of the mind of a person actually
present or with whom the percipient is somehow
ra.'P'port.
It is submitted here, however, that none of the facts
which may be adduced as evidence for the jDossession of
this limited power of mind-reading are not equally well
explained by the hyj^othesis of psychical osmosis. The
activity of the percij)ient would then be hmited to the
actual making of the contact between the two minds ;
what then passed as a result of that contact is a matter
which is not determined by any action on his or her
part.
This view is held to be more in parallel with what we
know of the normal operations of the mind in acquiring
information. The eye does not go out to seek that which
it sees nor the ear the sounds it hears ; the most that
the percipient can do is so to adjust his organs of sense
that they may be in the best position for receiving the
impressions impinging on them from the outside. Of
course, arguments from analogy and parallelism are not
conclusive, these supernormal phenomena may be entirely
sui generis, but, as has been j)ointed out, we can only
draft our psychological and psychical principles on hnes
borrowed from the physical world ;
if, then, analogy
plays so large a part in normal psychology we may as
well be consistent and stick to it throughout the whole
piece.
There is one further point which tells against the
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 153
tlieory of unlimited mind-reading. For a l)eing endo\\cd
witli potential omniscience, and having at her disposal
all the contents of the mind she is reading, the medium
exhibits an extraordinary lack of intelhgence in selecting
the items of information which she retails. The ordinary
person would do far better : surely potential omniscience
should not fall behind our ordinary everyday intelligence.
The attitude, therefore, of this report towards mind-
reading is that of denial of its existence, except in a
very limited and restricted form.
We may now see how the facts of this case are explic-
able by the hypothesis of telepathy in the sense above
indicated.
The first sahent fact is the marked superiority of the
scores in the S.P. sittings over the A.S. This can only
be attributed to the presence of the sitter. It is gener-
ally assumed that proximity is favourable to telepathy,
although the evidence for this assumption is not so clear
as might be wished. It seems, however, fairly safe to
conclude that telepathy between the sitter and the
medium plays a considerable part in S.P. sittings, and is
one of the causes—and probably a large one—of their
superiority of score.
With very few exceptions the information given in the
S.P. sittings was such that it might have been derived
from the sitter's mind, and in the few cases where it
was demonstrably not so the facts were of such a nature
as to be accessible to supernormal observation or clair-
voyance. For example, in S.P. 11, the medium referring
to the rehc, a watch, states that there is some writing
inside—this was correct, though unknown to the sitter ;
in S.P. 27 it is stated that water had come into the
sitter's house—also correct and unknown.
A power of observation which could transcend the
ordinary hmitations of space could have acquired these
facts.
There is, so far as can be discovered, no single instance
of facts unknown to the sitter being given which could
have been in the possession of no one but the ostensible
communicator
.
154 H. F. SaUmarsJi. [part
Taking the S.P. sittings by themselves it may be said
that the siijjcrncjrmal knowk'dge contained therein can be
comj^letely covered by the hypothesis of telepathy from
the sitter, together with a small amomit of supernormal
observation or clairvoyance.
As regards the A. 8. sittings the case is different.
Though facts unknown to the contributor of the relic are
no more in evidence than in S.P. sittings, the absence of
any means of rapport (apart fi^om that furnished by the
rehc) stands in the way of explanation by telepathy alone.
If we take as an analogy for telepathy proper calling up
the percipient on the telephone by the agent, it may be
said that while the agent knows the percipient's number
he does not know the appropriate occasion on which to
put through a call. An intrusion might be considered as
a call put through on an inappropriate occasion.
The fact that has to be accounted for is that so many
of the A.S. sittings exhibit a relevance between the com-
munications and the owner or contributor of the rehc.
If it be taken for granted that in successful A.S. sittings
the medium becomes in some way aware of the identity
of the contributor of the relic and gets into rapport with
him, then we might suppose that telepathic exchange of
information miglit take place between them. If this is
what we have called telepathy proper, that is to say an
activity on the j^art of the agent, then we must suppose
that in the first place the medium calls up, as it were,
the contributor, and informs him that the sitting is being
held, and he, in response, conveys to the medium the
requisite information.
It is scarcely necessary to state that none of this would
be in the normal suprahminal consciousness of either party.
If instead of telepathy proper some theory such as
that of psychical osmosis be accepted the position seems
easier. Once the medium gets the necessary direction
from the relic it only remains for her to get her mind
into contact with that of the contributor for the process
of infiltration to commence.
The crux of the whole thing is, therefore, the part
played by the relic. This matter must be dealt with
112] Sittings ivith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 155
])efore any further progress can be made, and as any
discussion must bear on the hypothesis of object-reading,
or psychometry, that hypothesis will be chscussed here
although out of its proper place.
The conclusion arrived at in the discussion on the
function of the rehc, in the psychological section of this
report, was that some causal nexus exists between the
handling of the relic by the medium and the statements
which she makes at the sitting.
We have now to press the enquiry further, and endea-
vour to determine the nature of the process which takes
place.
The hypothesis of object-reading is that the medium
in some supernormal fashion obtains from the relic itself
information relating to its past history, events in which
it has taken a part or of which it has been, so to speak,
a spectator.
We must assume that every event leaves its trace on
the material objects present, and that from these traces a
suitably sensitive person can recover a history of the event.
It is extremely difficult to imagine, even in outline,
what these traces may be, or how a material object can
preserve them. It is true that we can sometimes obtain
from traces left on a material object some knowledge of
its past history, as, for example, when we see a stone
bearing longitudinal scratches of a certain kind we say
that that stone has undergone glacial action. In these
cases, however, the information is really arrived at by
inference—we need past experience from which to draw it.
The only kind of traces which by themselves could
convey the entire history of an event seems to be written
words or a j^ictorial record hke a cinematograph film : it
is obvious that nothing analogous is the case here. How-
ever, our inabihty to imagine how, for example, a gold
cuff link can bear the record of a long series of events,
both physical and mental, in the history of its owner, is
not necessarily an insuperable obstacle to the hypothesis
of object-reading, although it is a grave defect. We
cannot eiect our incapacities into absolute impossibihties,
nor arrogate for our limitations a cosmic status.
156 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
Fortunately in this case we have positive evidence
wliich settles the question for us b}^ rendering the object-
reading hypothesis untenable.
A very large part of the veridical information given
concerns events in which the relic played no part what-
soever, for example, the events which have been classed
as Post-mortem. Reference to the table on page 29
shows that in some 39 A.S. sittings the Ante-mortem
statements number 237 veridical, 275 non-veridi^cal, while
the Post-mortem number 197 veridical and 127 non-
veridical.
It is, of course, possible that in some of the post-
mortem events the relic might have been actually present,
but there could have been few such cases ;
moreover,
there is no reason for thinking that it was present in
all or indeed any of the Ante-mortem events. In fact,
when the relic is such a thing as a letter written by the
ostensilale communicator, as was sometimes the case, it is
clear that it could have been present in very few of the
events recorded. We should have to amplify the object-
reading hypothesis and suppose that simple contact with
an object impregnates it with a condensed history of the
person who handles it. This seems to be going beyond
the most fantastic limits of supposition.
It is submitted that this fact is sufficient to settle the
matter quite definitely.
We may say, then, that the hypothesis of object-
reading, whatever its validity may be in other cases, will
not cover the facts here in question. This conclusion
agrees with the result of Dr. Osty's investigation ; he
lays it down that the relic does not exercise a " fonction
enregistrateur," but only a " fonction directrice." His
theories will be discussed later.
It sec^ms, therefore, that an hypothesis of telepathy on
the fines of what has been here called psychical osmosis
will cover the facts, provided we can account for the
directive function of the relic in some way not inconsistent
with that hypothesis. When we come to discuss the last
of the theories in this class we shall see how far this
condition can be comjDfied with.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 157
The next hypothesis to be discussed is that of Clair-
voyance.
Here, again, it is necessary, as a prehminary, to lay
down some Kmitations to the meaning of the term. If
by the word " clair-voyance " we mean the poAvcr to
acquire knowledge of any fact, past, present or future,
physical or mental, by the simple exercise of a sujjer-
normal faculty, we can, of course, say that the hy^Dothesis
covers the facts ; it is, in fact, so wide that it will
cover any conceivable instance of supernormal knowledge.
But unless we can give any details of the modus operandi
of the process this is surely a most blatant example of
explaining ignotum per ignotins and obscurum jjer obscurius.
It cannot be held to be a satisfactory solution of a
mystery to postulate a still more mysterious faculty as
explanation.
Clairvoyance such as this would be an even nearer
approximation to omniscience than unlimited mind-reading.
It is necessary, therefore, to lay down some limitations
to the meaning of the term before the hypothesis can be
used for practical purposes. It is suggested here that
the supernormal factor in clairvoyance is the partial
transcendence of the limitations which ordinary spatial
and temporal conditions impose on observation. Only
those events which could have been observed had the
clairvoyant been present at the time and place of their
occurrence are accessible to the faculty.
It still remains, no doubt, sufficiently mysterious, but
at least it can be said that some colour is lent to it by
modern mathematical and physical theoiies of time and
space.
There is a considerable amount of evidence that some
such faculty does actually exist, and there are a few
incidents in the present experiment which seem best
exphcable along these Knes Two have already been
cited when discussing the hypothesis of telepathy, although
in one of these particular cases the knowledge was almost
certainly in the mind of some other person and might
have been drawn therefrom The incidents referred to
are those of the writing inside the watch and the water
158 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
coming into the house. There are, however, two other
incidents of a rather pecuHar nature, which present better
evidence of the exercise of some sort of clairvoyant
faculty and also throw some light on its nature.
The first is as follows. In A.S. 39 Topsy says :
Doesn't know whether its where that lady buried or whether
connected with that lady, but, you know, where they buries
people, something connected with her, she points to herself ;
she says, the whole row is now filled except one ; looks like
whole row of graves, does you understand ? There has been
some one buried quite recently, you know, quite soon and it
was in rain and j ust brightened up a little for actual service
and then rain.
The note is :
This is very characteristic of her, she was much interested
in the Golders Green Crematorium where her ashes are
deposited and frequently spoke of it Her urn is in a row
accommodating eight, there is one vacant space.
The most recent date in the row was Sept. 1926. The
sitting was dated Nov. 20, 1926. Further investigation
revealed the fact that although an inscription had been
placed on the tablet of the niche in question the niche
itself was not filled ; the cremation took place in San
Francisco. No information concerning the weather at the
time of the cremation was obtainable.
The second case is from an extra A.S. sitting with
Mr. Irving. It was a normal sitting, i.e. the medium
was not in trance. The relevant passage is as follows.
After referring to a church, the medium says :
Woman in a shawl, buff with red check, wearing a hat very
like a man's tall hat, on the right side less than half way.
About 3rd row and in corner seat.
Mr. Irving 's note is :
I went on ahead with a missioner, counted the seats from
the front and sat down nearest the aisle in the 3rd seat.
My sister-in-law came in later, passed by me and sat next,
nearest the wall. As no one else was in the seat slie put
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 159
her mackintosh in the corner against the wall. I should
describe my sister's coat as being buff in colour with a very
faint tinge of pink in the buff. It had a large check pattern
outlined in red and, I think, also yellow in some lines. My
sister's hat was black, something like a man's bowler, but
rather taller and turned up a little way ^^ith pink in one
place.
His sister-in-law writes :
I wore a buff-coloured coat, of a large check pattern, the
line of the check being red. I had on a black hard hat
very like a man's bowler, but turned up with pink. Look-
ing from the chancel, I sat in the 3rd row from the front,
right-hand side nearest the wall.
Now the peculiarity common to both these cases is
that the medium makes a mistake. In the first she
states that the grave or niche had been filled, whereas it
was still empty though an inscription had been placed
on the tablet. In the second she misdescribes the
garment worn by the woman in the church as a shawl
instead of a coat. Both these errors are of the same
character, that is to say, the erroneous statements are
such as might have been made by a person who had had
a fleeting superficial glance at the actual physical situation
and jumped to the wrong conclusion.
In the first case anyone who observed an inscription
giving the name and date of death on the tablet of a niche
in the crematorium would naturally conclude that the niche
had been used, and contained the ashes of the deceased.
Had the information been derived from the mind of any
person connected with the actual occurrence such an
incorrect inference could hardly have been made.
In the second case all the details of the scene are
correctly given, such as the jjosition of the pew in which
the woman was seated, the shape of her hat, the colour
and pattern of her clothes. The error lies in describing
the coat as a shawl. Now this error is one which the
wearer of the garment would never have made, nor
indeed anyone connected with her. The social status of
the family to which all the actors belonged was such
160 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
that the wearing of a phaid shawl for church-going would
be an almost inconceivable idea.
It is jDlausible to suggest, therefore, that the informa-
tion in these cases was not derived from the mind of
another person, and the peculiar nature of the mistakes
made is consistent with the hypothesis that the source
was some sort of dim fleeting glance at the actual scene.
It may be suggested, therefore, tentative hypo-
thesis, that clairvoyance consists of a temporary and
partial removal or relaxation of the limitations imposed
on normal observation by the conditions of space and
time under which they ordinarily function.
There are many other incidents in the sittings whiqh
can be explained on this hypothesis, such as the descrip-
tions of places, many of the veridical references to facts
occurring at the offices of the S.P.R., references to Miss
Newton and her affairs, and so on. However, in these
instances the hypothesis of telepathy is not definitely
excluded, and there is no ground on which to base a
choice between the two.
The conclusion arrived at, therefore, is that there is
evidence of the existence and exercise of a clairvoyant
faculty as hereinbefore described. It remains to be
determined whether the whole amount of the supernormal
phenomena contained in the sittings can be ascribed to
this cause. If the relaxation of the spatial and temporal
Umitations on normal observation impHes that the glance
of the medium can travel back into the past and observe
events which happened long ago, then it may be said
that all the information contained in the statements
which have been classified as Physical might have been
obtained from this source ; but we can hardly make the
explanation cover the non-physical facts, that is to say,
statements concerning events or conditions which could
not have been observed by a person suddenly arriving on
the spot. To do so we should have to grant such an
extension to clairvoyant faculty as to render it almost
equivalent to omniscience. As in the case of unlimited
mincl-reading, very definite and positive evidence of the
existence of such a faculty would be required before it
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 161
could be accepted as a legitimate hypothesis : to postulate
it as an explanation of these very commonplace medium-
istic phenomena is to invoke a greater mystery to solve
a less, and amounts, when all is said and done, to an
acknowledgment of our complete ignorance.
We may, therefore, add to the conclusion above arrived
at that this faculty of clairvoyance is not sufficient by
itself to account for all the phenomena.
The next matter for discussion is the work of Dr. Osty
as given in his book La Connaissance Supranormale. I
quote from a translation by Mr. Stanley de Brath, Super-
normal Faculties in Man.
As regards the major part of the book it is not neces-
sary to speak ; it will suffice to say that the conclusions
arrived at by Dr. Osty as regards many points, notably
symbolism, etc., are almost identical with the views taken
in this report. (It should, perhaps, be said here that
these conclusions were reached entirely independently.)
On page 136 he says :
The first phase is the subconscious elaboration of the
supernormal cognitions.
In a second phase, these elaborated cognitions are manifest
under the form of mental images of different sensorial kinds,
more or less accurately representative, and often extending to
hallucinatory objectification.
Finally, the intellectual function called " conscious " comes
into play, interprets the images that have arisen from the
depths of thought and translates them into words.
On page 137 he says
:
During this phase the elaboration of the supernormal cogni-
tions takes place : and in it the mental images most fitted
to transfer cognition from the unconscious to the conscious
are sought, found, organized and developed into representa-
tions.
And a little lower down on the same page :
The work of supernormal cognition is fully accomplished
outside the consciousness of the percipient.
L
162 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
And, finally, on page 140, he says :
It is by using the stock of mental imagery—concrete images,
abstract images, symbols and allegories—and by utilizing the
whole constructive power of imagination and all the resources
of interior language, that the transcendental mode of thought
conveys information to the mode that we call conscious.
It is in Part IV. of the book that the theories here to
be discussed are set forth. Dr. Osty approaches the
matter in the form of three questions, namely : What
is the source of the supernormal information obtained
by the " sujet metagnome " (Dr. Osty's terra for his
mediums) concerning the states of life of a human
being (1st) present at the sitting, (2nd) living, but distant
in space, (3rd) distant in time ?
The answer to the first of these questions is given on
page 183 as follows :
When a metagnomic subject reveals the states of life in
a person placed in his presence, his paranormal knowledge
comes from that person.
As regards the second question, on page 192 he says :
Experiment therefore leads us to consider the case of
metagnomy on a distant person as analogous to that when
that person is in presence. The two cases differ only by
distance in space.
On page 194 we find:
Among all the hypotheses v/hich we can conceive and accept,
that of interpsychic communication at a distance is the only
one suggested by jsractical experiment, and the only one which
when apphed to the genesis of the phenomena, makes them
generally intelligible.
And lower down :
Beyond the human individualities that our senses detach
from the continuity of Nature, we glimpse an immense mental
world subjacent to appearances in which particular identities
seem to be linked in an inconceivable collective psychic life.
It is from this vast latent life of thoughts, of thought, that
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 163
sensitives unconsciously draw the substance of their revela-
tions, being endowed with a sense which enables them to
distinguish the evolving schemes of individual lives.
As regards the third question, that is to say, informa-
tion concerning a person distant in time, the case of the
greatest importance is obviously where that person is
dead.
On page 199 he says
:
• Accumulated experiment shows that sensitives deal with a
dead personality in the same way as with a living one.
On page 203, after having discussed at some length a
definition of the word personality and the bearing of
such abnormalities as cleavages, multiple personalities and
spirit guides, he says :
This human personality, so unstable that it is incessantly
modified, so little homogeneous that strong emotion, intoxica-
tion or suggestion can dissociate it, so little constructed to
endure that it may even die before the death of the body,
so precarious and so obviously perishable, is not, as we have
seen in the preceding pages, the informing centre whence
metagnomic subjects draw their knowledge when they work on
a life in progress. A fortiori it cannot be the informing
centre when death has extinguished it.
He goes on to suggest two alternative explanations of
the source from which a knowledge of the history of a
particular life is drawn.
This story, however, subsists somewhere, since metagnomic
subjects are able to reconstruct it ; and how can it be
imagined to subsist if it is not in a thought or a memory ?
In what thought ? In what memory ? This is to be
sought for.
Is there behind individual seeming a collective consciousness,
a thought outside time and space, where every reality is
represented, of which all phenomena known to us are reflected
by our senses ; a mysterious well-spring whose knowledge
flows through the particular psychisms within the limits that
pertain to each ?
164 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
Is there behind the apparent human personaUty a real
personality, a transcendental individuality clothed in matter
playing a part in the life of the world, whose persistence
would be the memory containing a life story, from whom the
metagnomic subject draws after death that which he drew
before death ?
Or is the source of supernormal knowledge so unreachable
by the very constitution of our intelligence that our actual
concepts must necessarily be foreign to it ?
Dr. Osty does not deny survival. In a footnote to
page 133 he says :
1 do not deny the survival of human personality. I
neither deny nor assert it.
But it would seem from the passage quoted from page
203 that the personality of which he is speaking is not the
manifest supraliminal personality, that which is subject to
cleavages, modifications, etc., for he says of it, " Quand
la mort Va eteint.'' It is, presumably, a transcendental
self, which is " Affrayichie des cojistraintes intellectuelles du
temps et de Fespace."
It will be seen tliat one of the above suggestions
should, under our classification, be considered as mystical,
that is to say, where he suggests a collective conscious-
ness from which the information is drawn. The second
suggestion is a modified form of the survival hypothesis.
As regards the function of the relic he contents him-
self with showing reason why this must be held to be a
fonction directrice" and not a " fonction e7iregistrateur."
The exact nature of this function and the means whereby
it is effected remain still " d chercher."
In so far as what he says as regards symbolism and
the psychological mechanism of the transference of the
impressions is concerned his conclusions coincide with
those arrived at in this report, though some further steps
in hypothesis have been herein taken, e.g. what has been
called psychical osmosis.
What he says of the function of the relic is also in
accord with the view herein adopted, but on this point
also it may be possible to advance a little.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 165
There was an instructive incident which seemed to
throw some Hght on the matter. A contributor sent to
the Society six rehcs, one of which referred to his
deceased brother, the other five to members of his wife's
family. The first A.S. sitting given with one of these
rehcs appeared to contain information concerning his
brother, the Christian name, Arthur, and some veridical
statements concerning him and his widow's recent doings
being given ; these latter were not within the knowledge
of the contributor. The rehc used, however, turned out
to be one of those which referred to the other side of
the family, and not the single one which referred to the
brother. With that relic a sitting was given in which
information referring to the contributor's mother-in-law
and her family was communicated. Now the brother
when living had only a slight acquaintance with the
other ostensible communicators. The only connecting
link between them was the contributor.
It seems reasonable to conclude from the above that
the directive function of the rehc is exercised, sometimes
at any rate, in regard to the person who contributed it
rather than to the original owner.
This is also illustrated in other cases : for example,
a relic referring to A. brings veridical communications
concerning an uncle of his ; a rehc of , Miss H 's
father, brings A. as ostensible communicator.
If one accepts the naive spiritistic hypothesis it can
always be said that the reasonable actions of the spirits
are sufficient to account for these facts ; for example,
A. after his death would meet his uncle, and they might
very Ukely arrange that the latter should do the com-
municating on that particular occasion. Again, Miss
H ^'s father and A. started their acquaintanceship on
the "other side," having been brought together by the
sittings of a private circle where both purported to come.
The fact that in the first case mentioned information was
given concerning the deceased brother and his widow
which was normally unknown to the contributor tends to
confirm this, but it must be admitted that this particular
piece of evidence was not of the highest quahty.
166 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
On the other hand, if the spiritistic hypothesis be not
accepted, we must suppose that the directive function of
the relic, sometimes at any rate, leads the mind of the
medium to that of the contributor, from whence informa-
tion is derived or a further direction is obtained.
In view of the extreme rarity in this series of sittings
of information normally ixnknown to the contributor being
given, it seems that this direction to the contributor
covers almost all the phenomena, the few exceptions being
perhaps susceptible of some other explanation such as
clairvoyance. '
;
It may be relevant to note that, with the exception of
the handhng by the various officers of the Society, which
is the same for all relics, the fact of being selected,
packed up and sent off for this particular purpose is the
most recent event in which the reUcs were concerned.
This 7nay be relevant, but the whole matter is so obscure
that it is impossible to say ;
anyhow we have, in the
case of every relic, a recent incident in its history which,
if known to the medium, would afford the required
direction to a source whence the information might be
drawn. The fact that in about 20% of the A.S. sittings
there are references to Miss Newton or the offices of the
S.P.R. is suggestive in this connection.
There is a certain amount of negative evidence to
weigh against this. In a few cases experiments were
tried with entirely new articles, things bought at a shop
and packed up straight away. For these, as for the
ordinary rehcs, the most recent event in their history
would give a direction to the sender, but in none of
these experimental cases did this occur.
The medium apparently recognised in every instance
that the ostensible communicator who appeared with these
pseudo-rehcs had no connection with them.
The sender would, of course, have in his mind when
despatching them the fact that the relics were false, and
this may have been sufficient to deflect the directive
function. We could svippose that the mind of the
medium was in all these cases directed as usual to that
of the sender, and that the first fact derived therefrom
112] Sittings ivith Mrs. Warren Elliott. 167
was that of the falsity of the rehc. This might effectu-
ally put a stop to the transfer of any further impressions,
and thus leave the mind of the medium open to an
intrusion, or else to occupy itself with fantasy formation
and the construction of purely imaginary incidents and
characters.
Anyhow, negative evidence based on so small a number
of cases is of little value, and cannot weigh against any
positive indications.
The salient feature of the A.S. sittings is the absence
of any conscious Hnk between the medium and the person
from whose mind the information is derived, whether that
person be the sender of the relic or the deceased owner.
The only connecting link is an inanimate object and, as
we have already seen, the hypothesis that this object
bears on itself some record of the events described cannot
be considered tenable.
What we require is some tentative explanation of the
manner in which the object can exercise its directive
function. It acts as a finger-post pointing in a certain
direction, and we want to know how it does it.
Let us consider first the case of an S.P. sitting. At
first glance there appears no special difficulty in the fact
of the medium's faculties, whatever they may be, being
directed to the sitter. However, when we consider that
these faculties are apparently in no way dependent on the
normal senses the phenomenon does not seem so simple.
So far as we can see, all the presence of the sitter
effects, in so far as the transmission of supernormal
knowledge is concerned, is to bring him into conscious
contact with the medium. All knowledge which the
medium's normal sensory observation of the sitter might
afford must be ruled out. All that is left, therefore, is
the direction of the medium's mind towards the sitter.
Some mediums require actual bodily contact, others do
not ; it is a case of individual habit, and probably has
only a purely subjective significance.
Dr. Osty writes on page 168 (Mr. de Brath's translation) :
The reader has learned that most metagnomic subjects, in
order to set their paranormal faculty to woriv, are accustomed
168 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
to touch the hand of the personaHty to be delineated ; i e. to
put the two organisms—the two nervous systems as it would
seem—into contact.
And, again, on page 171 :
A modality of energy of an unknown kind emanates from
every human being revealed by its power to set in motion
the special faculty of metagnomic subjects.
Now this idea of an emanation has been current since
the days of Mesmer. It has recently been investigated,
and received the support of the late Dr. Alriitz, but the
experiments of Professor Thouless and his associates,
undertaken for the purpose of confirming his conclusions,
having yielded nothing but negative results, tend to
discredit the idea.
Negative evidence cannot, of course, establish a positive
conclusion ; but it seems reasonable, in the face of
experiments so carefully devised as those of Professor
Thouless, at any rate to suspend judgment, and to
require unexceptionable positive evidence before admitting
the existence of any such entity as an emanation. The
nature of the suggested emanation is not stated by those
who hold the theory, but it would seem as though it
must be a physical or pseudo-physical entity, for, if it
be purely psychical, what is there to distinguish it from
telejiathy, and what need is there to give it any other
name ? On the principle of eniia non multiplicanda
praeter necessitatem it seems better to hold provisionally
that the relation between the subject and the object is
purely psychical.
If this be the case the fact of proximity between the
two seems to have its importance reduced to that of
indicating to the medium the source to which to apply
for her information. It may be, of course, that space as
such has some effect on the psychical process, and the
evidence of exj^erimental telepathy gives some support to
this view, but it seems as though the facts may be
equally well explained on the hypothesis of " direction
"
only.
To deal with the matter, let us consider the analogy
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 169
with normal recognition. The case of the person to be
recognised being in the presence of the subject is the
simplest, the senses of sight, hearing and touch all afford
means of recognition, that is to say, they bring the
subject into conscious contact with the object, their lines
of history intersect.
Where the object person is separated from the subject
by a space sufficient to ehminate recognition by the
ordinary unaided senses, some indirect means may effect
the same thing ; the subject may know the name,
address or telephone number of the object person, which
will give the required " direction " and enable communica-
tion to be made, provided the necessary physical means
are available. Where the separation is both in space and
time no such physical means exists so far as we know,
with the exception of permanent material symbolic
traces, such as written words.
Now the chief point of difference between the normal
phenomena and the supernormal lies in the means of
communication ; we must substitute for the physical
processes of direct speech, writing, telephonic speech, etc.,
the psychical process of telepathy, whether in the form
of what has here been called psychical osmosis or other-
wise. Recognition is itseK a purely psychical pheno-
menon, whether it be effected by physical means or not.
In the case of recognition in the A.S. sittings, that is to
say, when it is effected by contact between the subject
and an inanimate object, what we have to explain is
how the relation between the latter and the object
person can produce the same effect as direct contact.
We may say that at the moment when the medium
handles the relic their respective lines of history intersect,
the medium makes conscious contact with the relic.
Normally she is able only to derive from sensory observa-
tion a comparatively small amount of knowledge of the
history of the rehc. As has been seen on page 109 the
fact of the relic remaining wrapped up has no effect on
the quality of the information given ; it would seem,
therefore, that this normal knowledge may be neglected.
Somehow or other the medium's consciousness is brought
170 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
into relation with some person connected with the past
history of the object.
We have seen reason for thinking that if a relation
could be established with the contributor of the relic the
entire set of phenomena could be accounted for, given
the possibility of telepathy.
Now the conscious contact between the medium and
the relic starts normally at the moment of handling it.
It may be called a point contact ; but if we suppose that
the normal conditions of time governing the medium's
mind be relaxed this point contact might be extended
into a Kne contact, covering that part of the history of
the relic where it was selected, packed up and sent off
to the Society. This would give the necessary " direction."
It is very difficult to form any idea of a consciousness
governed by different conditions of time or to imagine
what it would be like, but a possible mode may conceivably
be based on the conception of the " specious present."
As is well known, normal psychology teaches that the
present moment has a definite duration, it is not a
mathematical line dividing the past from the future. The
reasons for this need not be gone into here. All events
which come into the same specious present are received
together in consciousness.^
^ Dr. C. D. Broad writes in a paper read before the Aristotelian
Society at Bristol in July 1928: "The essential point in the doctrine
of the specious present may, I think, be stated as follows. There is
a certain characteristic which an object may have at certain times.
This may be called the characteristic of '
being sensuously pre.sented.'
This characteristic has various determinate forms which may be called
'
degrees of vividness.'
"The facts about the finite duration of the specious present may now
be stated in the two following correlative propositions.
" (a) A momentary event, occurring at a time t, can bo sensuously
presented throughout the whole course of an experience which begins
at t and lasts for a time T. It is presented with steadily decreasing
vividness in each successive later slice of this experience.
" (6) In a momentary experience, occurring at a time t, the whole
course of an event wliich ends at t and began at t - T can be sensu-
ously presented. Each successive earlier slice of this event is presented
with less vividness in the momentary experience."
Readers are also referred to Wm. James, Principles of Psychology,
page 609, and C. S. Myers, Experimental Psychology, pages 308-9.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 171
Now, if we suppose that the specious present of the
medium's subconsciousness be extended sufficiently in
length, the two events in the history of the relic, viz.
the selection and sending off by the contributor and its
being handled by the medium, would be received together
as in one moment. It would also cover the event of
being received by the Officer of the Society. As a rule
Miss Newton did this, and we may see a possible explana-
tion of the numerous references to her in the A.S. sittings.
We have spoken of the normal conscious contact with
the rehc as a point contact ; in actual fact it is really a
line contact, but the hne is very short, being the length
of the specious present ; the suggestion is that the sub-
conscious contact is also a line contact, but of greater
length. This theory possesses the advantage of enabling
us to do without the untenable hypothesis of object-
reading ; it also offers an explanation of the facts of this
case without the necessity of postulating communication
with the surviving consciousnesses of deceased human
beings. In other cases, if such there be, where the
information given by the medium was not in the posses-
sion of the contributor of the relic, it would not, of
course, be sufficient by itself to cover the phenomena,
but it would still afford an explanation of the directive
function of the relic.
Whether the possibility of dispensing with the survival
hypothesis be a recommendation for this theory or not
must be left to the judgment of the individual reader :
it can only be said here that the phenomena of this
particular case do not, by themselves, warrant us in going
beyond it. While it is true that the survival and com-
munication hypothesis does undoubtedly cover the facts,
we cannot claim that it is established thereby if an
alternative explanation can be found.
Some measure of support for this theory may be
derived from other sources. For example, in normal
states, such as fatigue, great excitement, intoxication, etc.,
the length of the specious present appears to fluctuate
somewhat. It is possible that experiments by means of
hypnosis might throw some light on this matter.
172 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
As is well known Kant taught that time and space
were no more than a priori forms governing the pheno-
menal consciousness, and that the transcendental ego was
not subject to their conditions. It may be that the
receptor stratum belongs to the transcendental.
More recently the mathematical researches of Einstein
and his co-workers have demonstrated that time is not
an unidimensional stream common to all, but rather
subjective for each individual. The time of observer A.
is not the same as that of observer B. if they are in
motion relatively to one another.
This is not the place in which to discuss the implica-
tion of these discoveries : they are merely mentioned here
to show that the notion of a modification of the time
condition, as usually conceived, is not entirely fantastic
and without collateral support.
Those who hold the spiritistic hypothesis can, as men-
tioned above, claim to cover the facts, and their explana-
tion of the directive function of the rehc would be
perfectly simple and plausible. The " spirits " may be
supposed to be cognisant of events happening in this hfe,
and would recognise the relic as having belonged to them
when they were here. They would thus be led to com-
municate through the medium. In other words, we must
suppose that they know all about this experiment, and
have attempted to co-operate in it. Until we know
more about the conditions of the " other side " we
cannot say delinitely whether this explanation is possible
or not.
Group III. Sitrvivalist.
The next set of theories for discussion are those termed
" survivalist." They are of two sorts : first those de-
scribed by Dr. Walter Leaf and Dr. Broad, which postulate
the persistence of certain memory elements and not the
survival of the entire personality ; the second are those
which hold that the personality itself survives, and is
the source from which the information is derived. These
latter exist in all degrees of crudity and refinement.
The gist of Dr. Leaf's theory may be gathered from
112] Sittmgs with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 173
the following quotations taken from Proc. S.P.B., Vol. XVIII.,
page 53 ;
The evidence seems to me to show that after death of the
body there remains a more or less coherent complex of
memories which is accessible to the subliminal self of certain
living persons. What I do not as yet see is that this complex
has such coherence as can enable us to consider it a person-
ality. . . . The evidence seems to point rather to an alterna-
tive which is at least consistent with analogy . . . that, as
the physical body only gradually dissolves into its elements
after death, so the spiritual retains for a time a certain
coherence which is no proof of life. ... It may be possible
for peculiarly gifted living spirits to behold the gradually
disintegrating spirit, and bring us word, with more or less
completeness, of what the spiritual man was during life.
Again on page 59 of the same volume ;
The evidence proves, I think, that the memories of the
dead survive and are under special conditions accessible to
us. But I do not see that it proves the survival of what
we call the living sj^irit, the personality—unit of consciousness,
limited and self-contained, a centre of will and vital force,
carrying on into another world the aspirations and affections
of this.
Dr. Broad in his recent work, The Mind and its Place
in Nattire, enunciates a very similar theory in a somewhat
more detailed form. He lays it down that before it can
be held that the personality as a unity survives death
some evidence must be forthcoming of the persistence of
other forms of mental activity besides memory, for
example, conation.
Where the evidence consists of the communication
through a medium of information known only to the
deceased Dr. Broad holds that to claim this as a proof
of survival of the personality is to go beyond the evidence.
All that is proved is the persistence of some sort of
memory.
These theories are open to criticism on purely physco-
loglcal grounds, for it might be argued that pure memory,
174 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
that is to say memory without any tincture of conation,
is non-existent, it is a psychologist's abstraction, and ceased
to be beheved in when the faculty psychology perished.
If this be so in life why should it be different in death ?
This, however, is not the place in which to elaborate
any such arguments ; we must remain content to see
how far the facts of this case fit in with these theories.
If, as has been suggested, the source of the information
is the subconscious mind of the sitter or contributor of
the rehc, then these theories are plainly inapplicable.
However, while it is perhaps going beyond the evidence
at present before us to postulate another source, yet
there is plenty of other evidence available which seems
to give some support to such a postulate. We may,
therefore, without prejudice, consider how our facts would
fit in with theories of which, in themselves, they are
insufficient to bear the weight.
One of the most obvious and striking features of these
communications is the large percentage of statements
referring to events subsequent to the death of the osten-
sible communicator. Many of these are of a non-physical
nature, that is to say, such that an observer arriving
suddenly on the spot would not have been able to
obtain the knowledge implied by the statement.
If the discussion on the theory of clairvoyance be
referred to it will be observed that it is just this class
of fact which is not accessible to clairvoyance, so that,
although we might possibly account for the physical
Post-mortem statements by attributing them to clair-
voyant observation on the part of the medium, we cannot
so explain the non-physical. In 66 sittings selected for
this particular analysis it was found that the number of
Post-mortem statements was about equal to the Ante-
mortem, and the percentage of veridicality is almost the
same in each class. Of these Post-mortem statements
the numbers of the physical considerably exceeds the
non physical, but the veridicality of the latter is higher.
It is unnecessary to say that the selection of the
sittings was not made with a view to supporting any
particular hypothesis : they were chosen simply because
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 175
they were the only ones which seemed to warrant the
expenditure of labour required for extracting the facts.
Now there is absolutely nothing in the records to
suggest that the source of the P.M. statements is any
different from that of the A.M. ;
they are all mixed up
together, in fact in some cases so inextricably that it has
been difficult to dissect them.
It seems to follow, therefore, that although persisting
memory elements might be the source of the A.M.
statements they cannot account for the P.M. Clair-
voyance might account for the physical P.M. statements
but not for the non-physical. The theory thus fails
to cover all the facts, and seeing there is no ground for
attributing different sources for the different classes of
statement, for the sake of simpKcity of hypothesis, at any
rate, it would seem that if any other explanation, which
is otherwise not more open to objection, can be put
forward to cover all the facts it should be preferred.
Apart from these considerations, if we take the facts at
their face value, that is to say, as emanating from some
surviving remnant of the deceased personaUty, there is
considerable evidence of both conation and emotion. In the
X. case in particular this is very evident, as will be seen
if the extracts from that case given in an earlier section
are referred to. One can there observe the emotion of
remorse, watch its gradual alleviation as the deceased
becomes more assured that liis family has forgiven him
for his unkindness. The desire for forgiveness and the
pleas which he puts forward are all evidence of conation.
In the case of A. also the same phenomena are exhibited,
as, for example, when he congratulates his brother on his
engagement.
If this be accepted at its face value it supphes
the evidence which Dr. Broad requires for proof of the
survival of a personahty ; if it be not so accepted the
only alternative seems to be to hold that the mind of
the sitter or contributor is the source of the information,
and that the emotions and conations depicted are simply
unconscious fantasy constructs of that mind, reflections of
a romance woven by the subhminal.
176 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
In that case no persisting memory elements are required,
so that the theory either fails as a complete explanation
or is unnecessary.
The other type of survivalist theory, that is to say
those which postulate the continuance of the personality
after its dissociation from the body by death, is that
most usually held by the mediums themselves and is
assumed in almost all mediumistio communications. The
spirits claim to be the source of the information, and
many details of the methods of communication are forth-
coming. (See Mr. Drayton Thomas's article in Proc,
XXXVIII. While it is held by many in its crudest
and most naive form, that is to say, that the personality
which survives is the ordinary normal manifest person-
ality which was known during earth hfe, in some cases
at least, as is shown by Mr. Drayton Thomas's extracts,
this is refined upon to the extent that the spirits claim
that after death the sub- and supra-liminal consciousnesses
are unified.
Now it must be frankly and fully admitted that some
such theory as this completely covers the facts observed
in this series of sittings.
Not only can it account for all the phenomena, but
there is nothing which is definitely inconsistent with it.
There is much that is perhaps puzzling at first sight,
such as, for example, the mistakes made, the gaps and
omissions in the information given and, if one may say
so without giving offence to those who hold that the
communications actually do come from the surviving
spirits of those dear to them, the surprising lack of
intelligence in the selection of the matter chosen for com-
munication. It would seem, from our point of view, an
easy matter to furnish evidence of identity far more con-
vincing than the triviahties which are so plentiful in the
sittings, and if a normally intelhgent person found him-
self in the position of wishing to establish his identity
under approximately parallel circumstances, say by dictat-
ing messages to someone who was speaking through a
telephone to those who were expecting to hear from him,
he would not waste time in talking about the number of
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. ill
pairs of shoes they had recently bought or such trivial
details of recent happenings.
But the spirits offer a plausible explanation for this
when they say that they become confused, and suffer
loss of memory when they enter the condition necessary
for communication. It may be so—we have no iinow-
ledge of the conditions of discarnate existence, and so are
not in a position to contradict.
Moreover, apart from this, if the hypothesis of psychical
osmosis be accepted we have a full explanation of all
these and similar aberrations. We may suppose that
rapport is established between the mind of the medium
and the surviving mind, and that the passage of impres-
sions from the latter to the former takes place in the
fortuitous manner which was described when that hypo-
thesis was formulated (see page 129).
That the survivalist hypothesis should adequately cover
the facts is not surprising, because, firstly, it is nearly
the widest hypothesis which we can make, and, secondly,
it is assumed by the mediums themselves. Granted all
the saving clauses and means of explaining away errors,
it would not be difficult for a medium to avoid making
serious blunders.
But a hypothesis so wide as that of survival requires
a wide basis on which to rest, and it must be admitted
that the evidence afforded by this case is not, by itself,
sufficient to support it. If from other sources similar
or better evidence is forthcoming then this case will be
corroborative. This, in the judgment of the writer of
this report, is all that can be claimed in favovir of
the survivalist theory.
There are, however, one or two facts which, perhaps,
bear a little more weight on the side of the survivalist
theory than on any alternative, thougli they are not by
any means conclusive.
What may be called the dramatic personification
exhibited in some sittings is one such fact. It is a fairly
common experience for the sitter to get a feeling of
intimacy at a sitting. They feel it hard at the time not
to beheve that the ostensible communicator is actually
M
178 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
present. With some this feeUng fades after the sitting,
with others, who are convinced of survival, it may persist.
We know nothing of Mrs. EUiott's or Topsy's dramatic
ability, but it would seem that even the most talented
actress would be hard put to it to give, on the spur of
the moment and on the very meagre information available
concerning the character to be portrayed, so convincing a
representation as is sometimes shown. It is possible, of
course, that the feeling of actual presence and intimacy
is due to suggestion, and the fact of its subsequent
fading in some cases rather points that way ;
still, so
far as it can be judged by one not actually experiencing
it, there is in the sittings some real ground for it.
Taken as a whole the dramatic personification is con-
sistent for each individual ostensible communicator.
Another fact which may be interpreted as leaning
towards the survivalist theory is that of intrusion. In
all these cases, as has been remarked, the intrusion is by
one who has shown himself elsewhere to be a good com-
municator. A., the communicator with whom this pheno-
menon most often occurs is extremely persistent in
communicating.
This may be explained by the fact that the medium,
having had experience of a number of successful cases of
rapport with the source-mind from which she has drawn
information concerning this particular ostensible communi-
cator, tends spontaneously to turn in that direction and
to establish rapport without the connecting Hnk afforded
by the rehc. On the other hand, we may take the facts
at their face value and hold that the surviving spirit,
being anxious to communicate, and having done so
successfully on previous occasions where a connecting link
was present, seizes any opportunity that presents itself to
intrude.
Before passing on there is one point which must be
briefly touched upon. If, as Osty says, the transcendental
self is free from the restraints of time and space, and
physical death is simply the severance of the tie between
the body and the self, then the question of survival can-
not arise. It is a question which is not unanswerable,
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 179
but unaskable because meaningless. For a timeless
entity, such as the transcendental self has been held to
be, not only by Osty but also by Kant and his many
followers, there can be no before and after. The word
survival imphes the conception of before and after
death.
It may be remarked that the more modest hypothesis
suggested herein, viz. an extension of the length of the
specious present only requires to be apphed " with a
heavy brush " in order to bring about very much the
same result. For if the specious present be lengthened
sufficiently we get a sort of timelessness sufficient for all
practical purposes though not absolute. It is the same
difference as lies between the conceptions of a future life
and immortality.
Now, seeing that time and space are inextricably inter-
woven into all our mental machinery, our language,
concepts, etc., we cannot reason about or even speak
intelhgibly concerning a timeless entity, but that, in itself,
is no reason why such a hypothesis should be rejected.
It simply means that we have reached the boundary of
the intellectually knowable and pushed the matter into
the province of the intellectually unknowable. If we are
to deal with it we must employ some mental faculty
other than the intellect.
Such faculties there are, but from their very nature as
non-intellectual they are not amenable to the rules of
logic, and in consequence the whole subject is lifted out
of the sphere of science.
Psychical research, therefore, if it aspires to be scientific,
must content itself with abstractions from reality in
exactly the same manner as do all other sciences, that is
to say, it must be satisfied with relativities and leave the
absolute severely alone.
Doubtless it can accomplish useful work within these
limits, and its efforts are the more Hkely to be successful
if it recognises its limitations. It may be that the
manifold perplexities which beset the Psychical Researcher
all arise from the attempt to apply spatial and temporal
concepts to that which is non-spatial and non-temporal.
180 H. F. SaUmarsh. [part
to measure the immeasurable, and to force the absolute
into the framework of the relative.
'
Group IV. Mystical.
There now remains only the type of theory called
Mystical, of which two only will be mentioned. As
already indicated very little can usefully be said in
criticism concerning this type of theory.
The first of those selected for mention is the Cosmic
Consciousness theory.
This postulates some sort of universal consciousness,
which embraces all particular consciousnesses and includes
their contents in its own.
The relation of the particular to the universal con-
sciousness may be thought of as being analogous to a
wave on the surface of the sea. The wave possesses its
own individuahty, but at the same time is only a part
of the sea. All that is in it is also in the sea.
The suggestion is that the source of the information
given by the medium is this universal consciousness, in
fact the mind of the medium and all other minds are in
reality one mind, separated only by the temporary dif-
ferentiation which we call personality. All knowledge,
therefore, which is in any mind is also in this universal
mind, and is accessible to anyone who can transcend the
temporary differentiation.
This theory is based on a conception which is sub-
stantially the same as that of the Vedantic philosophy.
In the Upanishads we are told that when the self receives
enlightenment it perceives that all that differentiates it
from the Absolute (Brahman, neuter) is Maya, illusion.
As soon as this is grasped Maya vanishes and the self
becomes Brahman.
The idea may be found in many other philosophies and
religions, both Oriental and Western.
Now from the nature of the hypothesis it seems impos-
sible that any evidence bearing on it can be found. If
the survival hypothesis be wide it is also pretty definite.
This of cosmic consciousness is certainly as wide, but it
is so indefinite as to be nebulous.
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott. 181
Until one can form some conception of what a cosmic
consciousness is like, and can give a clear description of
what is meant by those words, it seems useless to discuss
the matter.
That any such clear statement should be forthcoming
seems unlikely : we should have to imagine a thought
without a thinker, and transcend the fundamental category
of subject and object, self and not self.
Owing to its width it can cover all the phenomena,
owing to its nebulousity it cannot be broken. Criticism
passes through it like an arrow through a cloud.
It has been put forward as an explanation by several
thinkers, including Dr. Osty, who suggests it as an alter-
native, but does it get us anywhere ? Might we not
just as well say that the source of the information is
a mystery as to postulate an entity which cannot be
conceived ?
The last theory to be discussed is the Theosophical
theory of " Akashic records." By this theory there is
supposed to be somewhere a permanent record of all the
events which have ever happened. If the mind of the
medium can obtain access to these records the required
knowledge can be derived therefrom. It is not clear
whether theosophists would admit that the ordinary medium
could obtain this access, or whether such is available only
to adepts and Mahatmas.
The theory is almost too fantastic to merit serious con-
sideration, and the only thing to be said of it is that if
these records do exist in a material form there is abso-
lutely no evidence of it, while if they be of a psychical
nature there is little to distinguish the theory from that
of Cosmic Consciousness.
This concludes what must be admitted to be a most
unsatisfactory and incomplete discussion of mystical
theories.
However, until those who hold these theories can formu-
late them in definite language so that they can be under-
stood by the ordinary non-mystic, when, of course, they
would cease to be mystical, no satisfactory or complete
discussion is possible.
182 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part
The final conclusion, then, of this report may be stated
as follows :
Telepathy from the sitter in S.P. sittings is probably
responsible for a large part of the supernormal knowledge
shown; in A.S. sittings telepathy from the contributor
may be held to be a possible explanation provided the
necessary rapport can be accounted for. The type of
telepathy employed is probably that called here psychical
osmosis or something similar.
Clairvoyance as herein delimited is probably exercised
by the medium to some extent.
Explanation by " object-reading " is rejected.
Dr. Walter Leaf's and Dr. Broad's theories fail to
cover all the phenomena.
Dr. Osty, though he leaves many points open, accounts
for the phenomena of supernormal knowledge of living
persons on hnes substantially the same as those here
suggested under the heading of telepathy ; as regards
knowledge of dead persons he suggests two alternatives,
one survivahst, the other mystical, viz. cosmic conscious-
ness. He suggests no theory to account for the power
of the relic to establish rapport.
A theory based on an extension of the specious present
of the medium's subconsciousness has been suggested.
This, if taken in conjunction with telepathy of the
psychical osmosis type, it is submitted, will cover all the
phenomena of the sittings under discussion.
It must be noted, however, that the quality of the
phenomena here dealt with is not very high. There may
be other cases where information given was not in the
possession of any hving person. In such cases the theory
above stated would fail.
The survivalist theory covers all the facts if taken in
conjunction with the osmosis theory, that is to say, if
the transfer of information from the surviving conscious-
ness is of the type described as psychical osmosis. It is
not, however, necessitated by the evidence here available.
The mystical theories are too nebulous for anyone not
a mystic to understand or discuss.
The final choice, then, lies between telepathy from the
112] Sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliot. 183
sitter or contributor, together with a small amount of
clairvoyance, and communication from the surviving
consciousnesses of deceased human beings.
The evidence is not sufficiently definite to allow that
choice to be made with any degree of confidence.
APPENDIX.
A suggestion for a technique to be employed in future
cases is appended. The methods of collection and use of the
relics should be the same as in this experiment.
The notetakers should note the following :
(1) Whether the relic was opened or not by the medium.
(2) Where not opened, whether the relic was handled by
the medium as though she endeavoured to obtain knowledge
of its nature by her sense of feeling.
(3) Whether the wrapping was such that this knowledge
could have been thus obtained.
(4) The state of the medium as regards (a) physical health,
(6) mood, in so far as these can be ascertained.
(5) Any differences in the apparent mood of the control.
After the sittmg the records should immediately be sent to
the contributor for annotation. Only those persons who are
able and willing to undertake to annotate records of sittings
immediately on receipt should be invited to contribute relics.
A small committee of investigators should be formed.
Annotated copies of records should be sent immediately after
reception from the annotators to each member of the com-
mittee.
The committee should meet at short intervals, say once a
week or once a fortnight as foimd necessary, to consider the
sittings recently given.
Each item should be discussed separately and its value
assigned as follows :
(1) Probability of its being true by chance.
This must be stated in the form of a fraction.
If agreement cannot be reached after discussion, the mean
of the various assessments to be taken. The probability,
where not capable of exact estimation, may be stated in the
form of a lower limit. Suppose, for example, it be a ques-
184 H. F. Saltmarsh. [part 112]
tion of a man having only one leg, one could start thus :
" Not one man in every hundred has lost one leg." Agreed.
" Not one in every two hundred," and so on until a limit is
reached where the committee begin to feel uncertain. This
will constitute the minimum value for the statement. An
upper limit could be fixed. Statements which were of so
unusual a nature as practically to exclude chance would be
considered of limit probability.
(2) The committee would decide on the merits of the
annotations, i.e. whether a statement should be considered
veridical or not. Further information could be sought and
questions addressed to the annotator, if necessary the latter
should be interviewed by some member or members of the
committee in order to clear up obscure points.
(3) The committee should also mark the items for the
various classifications adopted, such as A.M. and P.M., physical
and non-physical, and so on.
(4) The committee should note and discuss any instances of
symbolism, intrusion, etc.
The records thus scored can then be dealt with by a single
person, who will calculate the value of each sitting ^ making
the necessary indexes and note correspondences. He would
refer back to the committee any points of interest arising
from his work.
The final stage will be when the combined results of the
whole series of sittings are laid before the committee, who
will then discuss them and di-aw up a report.
This technique would entail the expenditru-e of much time
and labour, but it would eliminate to a large extent the
personal factor, and would also provide a keener scrutiny and
more searching criticism of the annotations than could be
afforded by any single investigator.
The results, therefore, and the conclusions arrived at will
possess a higher value than can be assigned to those of
individual effort.
1 Discussion on the correct formula to be employed is still proceeding. It
is hoped that an agreed result may be published shortly
I. A EEPLY TO M. SUCRE'S ARTICLE, " AN EXPERIMENT
IN CARD GUESSING."
By Ina Jephson.
In the February number of Psychic Research M. Sudre has
written an article, " An Experiment in Card Guessing," the
experiment being that reported on by myself in Proc. S.P.R.
Part 109, December, 1928, Vol. XXXVIII. As M. Sudre in his
article raises some important points in regard to different
methods of research into supernormal phenomena, I am glad
of an opportunity to reply to his criticism, and to try and
make clear why his arguments, interesting as they are, have
only served to strengthen me in my adherence to the form
of research chosen.
To be strengthened in one's opinions and preferences, is,
I suppose, the normal effect of controversy, and M. Sudre
and myself seem to be following the normal course very
faithfully. In February 1928, M. Sudre, spurred to action by
my appeal to collect data for my experiment, wrote in Psychic
Research begging investigators, including myseK, not to do
collective experiments based on a mathematical comparison
with chance. In my report on the experiment I replied
shortly, giving my reasons for continuing in my obstinate
path, and trying to persuade M. Sudre of the error of his
views. In February 1929 M. Sudre, horrified by the method
and conclusions of my card-guessing experiment, writes again
(digging himself more firmly into his trench), and amplifying
and elaborating his criticisms. And now (crawling further into
my dug-out) I reply once more, using precisely the same
arguments that I used before, and feeling more warmly than
ever the illogicality of M. Sudre's position, and the strength
and good sense of mine.
My reply falls into two parts. First I would like to meet
those criticisms and theories which do not seem to me to be
185
186 Ina Jephson. [part
very good ones, and by these, of course, I mean those with
which I disagree ; then I will discuss the criticism which
strikes me as helpful and worth discussion, and by that, of
course, I mean one with which I am in agreement.
One of M. Sudre's main objections to the method used in
collective experiments based on mathematical calculations is
that the very method itself stands in the way of the demon-
stration of the faculty under observation, for the existence of
the faculty may be so slight that it has no chance to appear
in a relatively small number of trials, and that therefore the
whole experiment must inevitably be quite inconclusive. I
admit this may be a genuine drawback, but to abstain from
undertaking an experiment for fear it may fail seems a curious,
or I should say wicurious frame of mind, and to declare an
experiment valueless because not enough data have been
collected, is less helpful than to collect more. >
Another criticism made by M. Sudre is that where the
method of experiment combines all results, the results which
are successful due to supernormal faculty, may become
masked by those unsuccessful results from normal people.
This must be admitted, but until we try we cannot tell who
may have the faculty and who may not, and again, why.
abandon an experiment because we are not absolutely sure
it will succeed ? Even if the experiment is not, and cannot
in its nature be conclusive, a suggestive experiment can be
of great value, indicating a line of research which may
finally lead to definite conclusions.
With the next objection raised by M. Sudre I cannot agree
in any way. He considers that only comijlete success should
be scored ; that is to say that no approximation to success
should be allowed to influence the sum of results. He will
not allow, for instance, that to guess or divine a nine of
hearts for a ten of hearts, is any nearer to success than to
say nine of hearts for a black court card. This seems to me
quite strangely arbitrary. It might be possible that a clair-
voyant divining cards should get colour right every time
without exception, and yet, in M. Sudre's view, this must not
be counted, being disqualified as only a " j)artial " success.
We should be obliged to ignore, because of this self-imposed
rule, what might be a most important and interesting charac-
112] A Reply to M. Sudre's Article. 187
teristic of lucidity. It is exactly as if M. Sudre, not content
with the difficulties already inherent in the quest, decided to
invent a few more barriers between the investigator and his
goal. One can only hope that M. Sudre's methods of research
will not spread to other scientific activities, or we shall find
when we visit the oculist that we are considered totally blind
if we fail to read quite all the letters on the test card ;
and at the aurist deaf and dumb, because we can neither
hear very clearly nor understand some of the more enterprising
words in the Welsh language.
But M. Sudre's postulate provokes an interesting train of
thought, raising as it does the question of the mechanism of
perception of recognition. It is arguable, I suppose, that it
may be an unwise analogy to compare clairvoyance with
normal sight, but on the other hand, if we insist on being
so extremely cautious, with what else can we compare it ?
After all, the object of the experiment is to find out whether
supernormal sight can furnish us with the same information
that we are accustomed to receiving from normal vision. It
seems reasonable to assume, even if lucidity and normal
sight are quite different in their nature, that the objective
facts perceived (by whichever means) are synthesised by the
same process. We recognise, for instance, that a four of
hearts is a four of hearts, because we have learned by three
different acts of perception that the group of impressions,
four units, redness, and heart-shaped pips is called the four
of hearts. If we subtract one of these perceptions, or if one
of them fails to be translated into conscious expression, there
is no reason why we should assume that the other two per-
ceptions were wrong or non-existent. The possibility that
the three acts of perception may not all, or may not simul-
taneously reach consciousness, cannot possibly be taken as
proof that no one correct perception has taken place.
Dr. Fisher's method was devised on the perfectly natural
assumption that complete success is the sjTithesis of several
possible acts of perception, and that however arbitrary a
system of scoring may be it must supply a direct measure of
the subject's power of scoring on that system. But I need
not defend Dr. Fisher's system, and he is writing a reply to
M. Sudre in this article.
188 Ina Jephson. [part
If M. Svidre's method of scoring only complete success would
give but a barren and unprofitable experiment, his desire to
narrow the experiment still further, and to concentrate on
achieving one enormously above chance experiment, would
reduce the interest of psychic research almost to zero point.
M. Sudre's desire is to confront the scientific world with an
experiment so undeniably above chance that the most sceptical
and antagonistic would pale unanimously at its unavoidable
implications. This I agree would be delightful, and it is one
of the results of research to which I am looking forward.
But I do not think the result will be attained by M. Sudre's
method.
As an example of an experiment which would be unani-
mously considered as above chance, he gives a picturesque
illustration, imagining the case of a monkey, playing on a
typewriter, reproducing his article in Psychic Research. But
however undeniably above chance this event might be con-
sidered, I am afraid that M. Sudre would be disappointed in
its effect on scientific opinion. I feel certain that indifference
would remain till M. Sudre could exhibit his gifted monkey
writing articles regularly for Psychic Research, and could show
at least some traces, among other monkey tribes, of an ability
to contribute articles to magazines dealing with the super-
normal. Scientific conviction, after all, is only the name we
give to the effect of the prolonged persuasion due to re-
peatedly observed facts or events.
In my report I used the phrase " fatigue curve " to des-
cribe the diminution in success from the early guesses to the
later ones. M. Sudre objects that to call the curve a fatigue
curve assumes that the faculty is a continuous one, " whereas
we may more rationally suppose that it is exercised in flashes
imder a determinism of which we remain totally ignorant."
This is a perfectly just criticism, and I myself do not alto-
gether like the use of the word fatigue, and agree it may be
misleading. Whether the faculty is continuous remains to be
seen, but in any case I imagine the deterioration to which
my exj)eriments drew attention is due more to loss of spon-
taneity after the initial guess, than to fatigue, unless we use
that word in its very widest sense, meaning only the deteriora-
tion of some quality or condition unknown.
112] A Reply to M. Sudre's Article. 189
I agree with M. Sudre in thinking that interference from
objective or subjective causes, rather than weariness, is more
likely to be responsible for the diminution of success. After
the initial guess or divination the normal mind is almost sure
to interfere, giving suggestions that a card of a different
colour should be tried, or that it is most unlikely that a card
will be the same twice running ; a preference for red may
bias the guessing, and a number will be suppressed for con-
scious or unconscious reasons. The phrase " censorship-curve
"
has been suggested, but perhaps it is assuming more than
the experiment warrants to do more than to note the de-
terioration, and call the curve X.
I have discovered one more point on which it is possible
to agree with M. Sudre, which is, that in making experiments
in clairvoyance it is best to try with people who have the
gift. I agree. But even in discovering this amount of agree-
ment I must make a small protest. T have not neglected the
golden opportunity of studying the clairvoyant gifts of Mr.
Saltmarsh. Mr. Saltmarsh very kindly was one of the first
to make some trials, but has not, so far, divined five series
of five cards in the way attributed to him by M. Sudre, and
I can find no record of such a remarkable success in my report.
I can only deduce, rather sadly, that my paper itself pro-
duced a fatigue curve in M. Sudre, but I hope that, given
time, he will be sufficiently recovered to attack afresh any
further experiments shoukl more of the same nature be devised.
II. THE STATISTICAL METHOD IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
By R. a. Fishee, Se.D., F.R.S.
I HAVE been invited to make a few comments on M. Sudre's
interesting criticism of Miss Jephson's card-guessing experi-
ment, but after reading Miss Jephson's own reply, it is clear
that she is so well able to justify the experimental technique
she has adopted that there is very little for me to add on
her behalf. The little that I should like to say is rather on
behalf of, and in explanation of, the statistical method in
general, in relation, not specially with psychical research, but
with all phenomena the experimental demonstration of which
is not so simple that the facts are universally accepted.
190 R. A. Fisher, Sc.D., F.R.S. 1
M. Sudre goes to the heart of the matter with the para- ^
doxical statement that the report of a single case in which I
five cards in succession were cori'ectly guessed on five separate
occasions " would have been vastly more convincing to the ^
incredulous " than (presumably) the demonstration that a large '
number of persons working independently should, while mak- '
ing many mistakes, consistently make better guesses than '
could be ascribed to chance. How paradoxical this statement
is must be apparent to anyone who has watched the reactions
of an audience to a good conjurer. All, with their own eyes,
have seen him produce a living rabbit from a hat which
they have also seen to have been empty ; most of them are
confessedly unaware of the " normal " means by which the
trick is performed. Yet they do not feel that their knowledge 1
of the nature of things has been enlarged, or that new poten-
'
tialities in their environment have been revealed to them.
The unexplained phenomenon is discounted because it is only
performed by a special person, the conjurer, presumably after
special but unknown preparations. If Mr. Saltmarsh had,
really performed the feat, which M. Sudre ascribes to him,
before our eyes, his performance would still have carried little
conviction to the incredulous, who would, however, be ration-
ally impressed if they were to discover a much slighter power
of clairvoyance in repeated trials with ordinary people like
themselves.
It is important that the incredulous should react in this
way, but it is more important that they are right so to
react. If any one of the conjurer's audience, after witnessing
phenomena beyond his immediate comprehension, were to face
the problem whether they were produced by " normal " or by
" supernormal " means, he would see at once that he had not
obtained the data necessary for a decision. What is needed is
for him to frequent the company of amateur conjurers, and
of learners in all stages of acquiring the art. The exhibition
phenomena will then no longer be isolated and inexplicable ;
they will be brought into relation with special apparatus and
special adroitness, which he can understand and accept, with-
out necessarily being able to imitate it. In the opposite
possibility that they were actually produced by the possession
of powers hitherto unknown to science or common experience.
112] The Statistical Method in Psychical Research. 191
he would receive, what the isolated performance could never
give him, adequate and convincing evidence of their reality.
In the investigation of living beings by biological methods
statistical tests of significance are essential. Their function is
to prevent us being deceived by accidental occurrences, due
not to the causes we wish to study, or are trying to detect,
but to a combination of the many other circumstances which
we cannot control. An observation is judged significant, if it
would rarely have been produced, in the absence of a real
cause of the kind we are seeking. It is a common practice
to judge a result significant, if it is of such a magnitude that
it would have been produced by chance not more frequently
than once in twenty trials. This is an arbitrary, but con-
venient, level of significance for the practical investigator, but
it does not mean that he allows himself to be deceived once
in every twenty experiments. The test of significance only
tells him what to ignore, namely all exi^eriments in which
significant results are not obtained. He should only claim
that a phenomenon is experimentally demonstrable when he
knows how to design an experiment so that it will rarely fail
to give a significant result. Consequently, isolated significant
results which he does not know how to reproduce are left in
suspense pending further investigation.
If I have rightly expressed the principles u^Don which
scientific truth is established, it will be obvious why Miss
Jephson did not confine her attention to one subject, but
rightly extended her enquiry to many. She was trying out
an experimental method which might (and may) prove capable
of raising clairvoyance to the level of a demonstrable scientific
fact. I believe that few will doubt the importance of such a
fact, if true, or the need, in a sceptical world, of giving it a
critically sound demonstration.
The value of such an experimental method depends on its
chance of success if the phenomena is there to be revealed.
It depends, in fact, on being sensitive to whatever powers of
clairvoyance, however slight, might happen to be possessed by
her subjects. It is this that M. Sudre has overlooked in
suggesting that only complete success, an exact reproduction
of the Suit and Value of the card drawn, should be taken
into account. A subject who could always perceive the colour
192 R. A. Fisher, Sc.D., F.R.8. [part 112]
of the card correctly, but could see no further, would possess
very remarkable clairvoyant powers. Such a subject would
score complete success only once in 26 trials, whereas one
with no clairvoyant powers whatever would score complete
success once in 52 trials, or just half as often. With M.
Sudre's system of scoring, even so remarkable a clairvoyant
could only count on scoring a significant result after several
hundred trials ; and since data could not be collected on this
scale, all such cases would be missed. On Miss Jephson's
system the same subject would score an average of 4-01 above
chance expectation, and after 25 trials, with a standard error
of 2, this is significant ; the score, in fact, would serve to
call attention to the astonishing special powers possessed by
the subject.
This example, though conclusive in showing that Miss
Jephson's procedure, in taking account of all the chief points
to be perceived by a clairvoyant, is much more sensitive than
the crude method of ignoring all but complete success, sug-
gested by M. Sudre, does not really do full justice to her
system of combining all powers of perception in one composite
test ; for the subject might well perceive, sometimes colour,
and sometimes form the more clearly, and all tendencies to
be right rather than wrong are allowed to reinforce one
another in proportion to their power of excelling the results
of random guessing. In this matter, as M. Sudre severely
says, I have done nothing more than translate into that
language of figures the instructions which I have been given ;
I take, however, full responsibility for judging this to have
been worth while, as a contribution to experimental science.
In testing significance, a lower standard should not be
taken than twice the standard deviation, and in M. Sudre's
sentence :
" Hence the score of a series of 25 tests may be
attributed to chance if it falls between 9-18 and 13-18," one
should read 7-18 and 15-18 as the more reasonable limits.
M. Sudre's attempt to demonstrate by example the " univeri-
similitude " of the scoring system therefore fails ; as indeed
any attempt to show that significant results could frequently
be obtained without the action of a real cause, is necessarily
foredoomed to failure, t
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
iety for Psychical Research
PART 113
LIBRARY CATALOGUE
(SUPPLEMENT 1928-1929)
COMPILED BY
THEODORE BESTERMAN
LIBRARIAN AND EDITOR
PREFACE
The present second supplementary Library Catalogue covers
the additions made to the Library from July 1928 to
September 1929. The period from July 1927 to June 1928
was covered by the first sup]3lement, jjublished as Part 108
of Proceedings and sejaarately. The main catalogue, com-
plete to June 1927, forms Part 104, volume sxxvii, of
Proceedings, and is also published as a separate volume.
The organisation of the Library is briefly explained in
the Preface to the first supplement, and the Library Rules
are reprinted on the next page.
The larger part of the books described in the following
pages has been bought out of the gra,nt made to the
Society's Library by the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust.
Th. B.
LIBRARY RULES
I. The Library is open every weekday from 10.30 a.m. to
5.30 p.m., except Saturdays, when it closes at 1 p.m. The
Library is closed from Christmas Eve to New Year's Day,
inclusive ; from the Thursday before Good Friday to the
following Thm'sday, inclusive ; on Bank Holidays ; and during
the summer vacation.
II. The Library is open to all Members and Associates of
the Society, but books may be borrowed by Members only.
Associates may borrow books on payment of 5s. for One
Month or 10s.' for Three Months.
III. Readers have direct access to all the books in the
Library, and are particularly requested not to replace
volumes on the shelves.
IV. Borrowers are required to fill up and sign a voucher
for each book taken out. The vouchers are cancelled and
returned to the borrower when the books are returned, and
borrowers are held responsible for the books so long as their
vouchers remain uncancelled. Books may be requisitioned
by post, in which case vouchers will be sent and should be
returned completed.
V. The usual number of volumes allowed to each borrower
is Three, and the usual time One Month, except in the case
of books much in request, which are allowed for shorter
periods. Books may be allowed for a longer period, on
application being made, if they are not required by another
borrower. Special arrangements may also be made for
borrowers requiring a larger number of volumes.
VI. Any volume may be called in at any time with seven
days' notice from the Librarian.
VII. Old books and books of special value or such as it
would be difficult to replace if lost can only be lent out by
special permission, on ajiplication being made in advance.
VIII. Borrowers are required to pay the carriage of aU
books sent to them. All books sent to the Library must be
weU packed and j)repaid. Borrowers are held responsible for
any delay, loss or damage to books in transit to the Library.
IX. Marking any book, whether by writing, turning down
the leaves or otherwise, is strictly prohibited.
,/ PART I
PERIODICAL, SERIAL, SOCIETY AND OFFICIAL
PUBLICATIONS
Bombay, Government of, Report on the Work of the Water Diviner
for the Period October 1925 to January 1927. 8vo, pp. 12.
Bombay 1927. [RDo 3 (4)]
[•
], Report on the Work of the Water Diviner to the Govern-
ment of Bombay for the Year 1927 (inchiding res\ilts obtained
in 1926 and 1927). 8vo, pp. 9. [Bombay 1928.] [RDo 3 (5)]
, Report on the Work of the Water Diviner for the Year 1928.
8vo, pp. 7. Bombay 1929. [RDo 3 (6)]
British Museum, Jacob Boehme. An Extract from the Catalogue of
Printed Books. FoHo, pp. ii. 13. London [1922]. [25 i 18]
Columbia University : The Library, A Contribution to a Bibliography
of Henri Bergson. Preface by W. D. Johnston. Introduction by
J.Dewey. 8vo, pp. xiii. 56. New York 1913. [RBi 4 (1)]
Institut Metapsychique International, Les Conferences en 1926. 8vo,
pp. 134, 18 diagrams and ill. Paris [1927]. [6 i]
Projets et exposes des Buts. Appel de son Comit6. 8vo,
pp. 24. [Paris 1926.] [RPR 12 (5)]
International Psycho-Analytical Library, The. Edited by Ernest
Jones. London. Viemia, New Yorlt [nos. 1-2, 7 ; 3, 8, etc. :
London; 4-6: London, Viemia]. 8vo. [10 h]
1. J. J. Putnam, Addresses on Psycho-analysis, pp. ix. 470.
1921.
2. Psycho-analysis and the War Neuroses, pp. v. 59. 1921.
3. J. C. Fliigel, The Psycho-analytic Study of the Family, pp.
xii. 259^. Third edition. 1929.
4. S. Freud, Beyond the Pleasure Principle, pp. xii. 90. 1922.
5. E. Jones, Essays in Applied Psycho-analysis, pp. vii. 454.
1923.
6. S. Freud, Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego.
pp. vii. 134. 1922.
197
198 Society for Psychical Research [part
7-10. S. Freud, Collected Papers. 4 vols. 1924-1925.
11. S. Ferenczi, Further Contributions to the Theory and Technique
of Psycho-analysis, pp.473. 1926.
12. S. Freud, The Ego and the Id. pp. 88. 1927.
13. K. Abraham, Selected Papers, pp. 527. 1927.
14. J. Rickman, Index Psychoanalyticus 1893-1926. pp. 276.
1928.
15. S. Freud, The Future of an Illusion, pp.98. 1928.
" New Psychology " Handbooks, The. 8vo. London. [25 b 31-40]
1. C.H. Brooks, The Practice of A utosuggestion , pp.124. 1928.
2. V. M. Firth, The Machinery of the Mind. pp. 102. 1925.
3. C. E. Hudson, Becent Psychology and the Christian Religion,
pp. 121. 1923.
4. C. H. Brooks and E. Charles, Christianity and Autosuggestion.
pp. 142. 1923.
5. C. Baudouin, The Poiver Within Us. pp. 137. 1923.
6. G. Mayo, Coue for Children, pp. 126, 7 jDortraits and ill.
1923.
7. C. F. Harford, Mi7id as Force, pp. 128. 1924.
8. R. C. Waters, Auto-Suggestion for Mothers, pp. 94. 1924.
9. P. Slimier, The Brain and the Mind. pjj. 112, 6 diagrams.
1924.
10. C. Baudouin and A. Lestchinsky, The Inner Discipline.
pp. 229. 1924.
Psychological Review, The, Monograph Supplements [afterwards
Psychological Monographs]. [25 a]
Vol. xxxviii. 1 : 173. L. L. Sloan, The Effect of Intetisity of
Light, State of Adaptation, ayid Size of
Photometric Field on the Visibility Curve.
pp. V. 87, 34 diagrams. 1928.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 174. M. R. Almack, A Quantitative Study of
Chromatic Adaptation, pp. v. 118, 42
diagrams. 1928.
[With a bibliography.]
3 : 175. R. C. Travis and R. Dodge, Experimental
Analysis of the Sensori-Motor Con-
sequences of Passive Oscillation, Rotary
and Rectilinear. pp. iv^ 96, 34 diagrams.
1928.
[With a bibliography.]
4 : 176. University of Iowa Studies in Psychology,
no. xi. Edited by C. A. Ruckmick.
Note by C. Seashore, pp. vii. 234,
numerous diagrams. 1928.
[With bibliographies.]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 199
xxxix. 1 : 177. N. Cameron, Cerebral Destruction in its
Relation to Maze Learning, pp. iii. 68,
24 diagrams. 1928.
[With a bibliography.]
2 : 178. University of Iowa Studies in Psychologjs
no. xii. Edited by W. R. Miles and D.
Starch, pp. vii. 223, portrait and 33 ill.
1928.
Sammlung Mediumistischen Abhandlungen. 8vo. Leipzig [Band
I ;
Bamberg, Band II.] [R 27 f]
I. W. K. Jaschke, Die 'parajosychologischen Erscheimmgen.
pp. 85, 12 ill. Second edition. 1928.
II. W. K. Jaschke, Maria. Preface by W. Guenther and
Appendix by Erbprinzessin zu Y. und B. pp. 99, 7 ill.
1928.
Society for Psychical Research, Library Catalogue (Supplement 1927-
1928). Compiled by Theodore Besterman. 8vo, pp. [109].
[London 1928.] ' [i g 9]
Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association.
Foho, pp. 39. London 1895. [8 i 12]
•
[With amendments to 1921.] Folio, pp. 39. London
1895. [8 i 13]
[Revised edition.] Folio, pp. 17. London [1929].
[8 i 14]
[Another issue of the revised edition.] 8vo, pp. 16.
London [1929].
Spiritual Review, The. A Monthly jMagazine for SjDiritualists.
Edited by J. J. Morse. 8vo, vol. i (nos. 1-2). London, May-
June 1900. [15 h 13 (2)]
Verinnerlichung. Wegweiser der Geistes- und Geheimwissenschaften.
Literarischer Jahresbericht. Edited by O. W. Barth. 8vo, vol. i.
Berlin 1927. [RBi 5 (4)]
PART II
BOOKS AND PAMPHLETS '
-
Aall (A.), Collaborator in Philosopliie des Auslandes, Die. [26 h 27]
Abraham (Karl), Contributor to Psycho-analysis and the War Neuroses.
[10 h 2]
Selected Papers. Introductory Memoir by E. Jones. Trans-
lated by D. Bryan and A. Strachey. 8vo, pp. 527, portrait.
The International Psycho-analytical Library (no. 13): London
1927. [10hl3]
[With bibliographies.]
Abramowski (fidouard), Le Subconscient Normal. Nouvelles re-
cherches exp6rimentales. 8vo, pp. vii. 442, 8 diagrams and
4 plates. Biblioth^que de philosophie contemporaine : Paris
1914. [1 g 41]
Acta Sanctorum Hiberniae et Codice Saknanticensi, nunc primiun
integre odita opera C. de Smedt et J. de Backer ; Auctore et
sumptus largiente Joanne Patricio Marchione Bothae. 4to,
pp. [iv]. iv. cols. 972. pp. 973-975. Edinburgi et Londini 1888.
[R21 i 18]
Adshead (W. P.), A Series of Experimental Seances Demonstrating
the Fact that Spirits can Appear in the Physical Form, in
Smedley (H.), Some Reminiscences. [23 f 34]
Ageorges (Joseph), Les phenom^nes de la m6tapsychique dans lea
vieux livres, in Institut Metapsychique International, Les Con-
ferences en 1926. [6 i]
Allison (Lydia W.), Leonard and Soule Experiments in Psychical
Research. Also Experiments with Sanders, Brittain, Peters and
Dowden. Supplementary Material by the Research Officer of
the Boston Society for Psychic Research [W. F. Prince]. 8vo,
pp. 399. Boston Society for Psychic Research : Boston 1929.
[Journ. XXV. 92.] [3 f 5]
Almack (Mary Ruth), A Quantitative Study of Chromatic Adaptation.
8vo, pp. V. 118, 42 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxxviii.
2: 174): Princeton and Albany 1928. [25 a]
[With a bibliography.]
Ames (Edward Scribner), The Psychology of Religious Experience,
pp. xii. 428. Boston and New York 1910. [9 c 23]
200
[part 113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 201
Anka (Janos), Preface to Tordai (V.), Asszony, akinek k6t ^n-je van.
[RTC 6 (3)]
Aram (Kurt), Magie und Mystik in Vergangenheit und Gegenwart.
8vo, pp. V. 626. Berlin 1929. [21 a 7]
[With a bibliography.]
Archer (John Clark), Mystical Elements in Mohammed. 4to, pp. 87.
Yale Oriental Series : Researches (vol. xi, part 1) : New Haven
1924. [26 b 27]
Arendzen (J. P.), Immortality—-or Nature is Mad, in Where are the
Dead ? [17 f 15]
Atkins (Gaius Glenn), Modern Religious Cults and Movements. 8vo,
pp. 359. London [1927]. [17 g 13]
Augier (E.), Une Psychologie Objective est-elle possible ? 8vo, pp.
291. Paris 1928. [9 c 24]
Baader (Franz), Ueber die Incompetenz unsrer dermaligen Philo-
sophie, zur Erklarung der Erscheinungen aus dam Nachtgebiete
der Natur. Aus einem Sendschreiben an Justinus Kerner.
12mo, pp. 33. Stuttgart 1837. [R20 d 55 (1)]
Ueber eine Behauptung Swedenborg's, den Rapport des
irdisch-lebenden Menschen mit Geistem und Abgeschiedenen
betreffend. 12mo, pp. 8. [No place, c. 1840 ?] [R20 d 55 (2)]
Backer (Josephus de) and Smedt (C, de), Editors of Acta Sanctorum
Hiberniae. [R 21 i 18]
Bacon (Benjamin Wisner), Immortality in the Fourth Gospel, in
Keligion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
— Immortality in the Synoptic Gospels, in Religion and the
Future Life. [22 g 6]
Baillie (J. B.), The Individual and his World, in Contemporary British
Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
Baldwin (James Mark), Thoughts and Things : a Study of the
Development and Meaning of Thought, or, Genetic Logic. 8vo,
3 vols. [Vol. i : Impression.] Library of Philosophy : London,
1908, 1911. [27 f 6-8]
[Vol. i :
ii : Experimental Logic, or Genetic Theory of Thought ; iii :
Interest and Art, being Real Logic. I. Genetic Epistemology.]
Balfour (Arthur James, Earl of), A Defence of Philosophic Doubt,
being an Essay on the Fomidations of Belief. 8vo, pp. x. 355.
New edition. London [1921]. [26 i 12]
Theism and Hmnanism. 8vo, pp. xv. 274. Gifford Lectures,
1914 : London, New York, Toronto 1915. [26 i 21]
202 Society for Psychical Research [part
Balfour (Arthur James, Earl of)
—
•
Theism and Thought : a Study in Familiar Beliefs. 8vo,
pp. xii. 281. Gifford Lectures, 1922-1923: London [1923].
[26 i 15]
Barkas (T. P.), An Account of Miss Wood's Mediumship, in Smedley
(A.), Some Reminiscences. [23 f 34]
Barnes (E. W., Bishop of Birmingham), Science and Immortality, in
Immortality. [26 h 25]
Barnes (William A.), Psychology, Hyj^notism, Personal Magnetism
and Clairvoyance. 8vo, pp. 112, 9 portraits and ill. Fourth
edition. London 1898. [RHy 14 (6)]
Barrett (Rosa M.), Editor of Barrett (Sir W. F.), The Religion of
Health. [17 g 10]
Barrett (Sir W. F.), Memoranda on the so-called Dowsing Faculty.
Bvo, pp. 4. London [c. 1890]. [RDo 3 (7)]
The Religion of Health : an Exammation of Christian Science.
Completed by R. M. Barrett. 8vo, pp. xiv. 149, portrait.
London, Toronto 1925. [17 g 10]
[Journ. xxiii. 28.]
Bartlett (F. C), Psychology and Primitive Culture. 8vo, pp. xi. 294.
Cambridge 1923. [22 e 20]
Baudouin (Charles), The Power Withm Us. Translated by E. and C.
Paul. 8vo, pp. 137. The "New Psychology" Handbooks
(no. 5) : London 1923. [25 b 35]
[With a bibliography.]
Studies in Psychoanalysis : an Account of twenty-seven
concrete cases preceded by a theoretical Exposition. Translated
by E. and C. Paul. 8vo, pp. 352. London 1922. [10 f 25]
[With a bibliography.]
-— and Lestchinsky (A.), The Inner Discipline. Translated by
E. and C. Paul. 8vo, pp. 229. The " New Psychology " Hand-
books (no. 10) : London 1924. [26 b 40]
Bax (E. Belfort), The Analysis of Reality, in Contemporary British
Philosophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
Baynes (Cary F.) and (H. G.), Translation of Jung (C. G.), Contribu-
tions to Analytical Psychology. [10 g 8]
Two Essays on Analytical Psychology. [10 g 7]
Bazett (L. Margery), Telepathy and Siairit-Communication. Fore-
word by Sir F. R. Benson. 8vo, pp. 125. London [1928].
[24 e 3]
Beaton (Thomas) and Craig (Sir M.), Psychological Medicine : a
Manual on Mental Diseases for Practitioners and Students. 8vo,
pp. xiii. 437, 25 plates (14 in colours). Fourth edition. London
1926. [10 e 18]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 203
Belloc (Hilaire), Preface to Jbrgensen (J.), Lourdes. [17 g 5]
Immortality, in Where are the Dead ? [17 f 15]
Bennett (Arnold), Where are the Dead ? in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
Bennett (Charles A.), A Philosophical Study of Mysticism : an Essay.
8vo, pp. xi. 194. Xew Haven 1923. [22 b 22]
Benson (Sir Frank R.), Foreword to Bazett (L. M.), Telepathy and
Spirit-Commimication. [24 e 3]
Bentley (Madison), The Field of Psychology : a Survey of Experience,
Individual, Social, and Genetic. 8vo, pp. xvii. 545, 42 diagrams
and ill. New York, London 1927. [9 f 19]
Beniitzung der Wiinschelrute fur Zwecke der Reichsbahn. 8vo, pp.
9-11, plan. [6 132(12)]
[Part of Schriften des Verhands zur Kldrung der WiinscJielruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1929), Heft 12.]
Berry (R. J. A.), Brain and Mind, or The Nervous System of Man-
Introduction by F. Kermedy. Bvo, pp. xiii. 608, 131 diagrams.
New York 1928. [9 i 13]
[With a bibliography.]
Besterman (Theodore), A Historic Case : Clairvoyant Phenomena
Associated with Saint Columba (521-597). 4to, pp. 104-111.
[RAH 5 (6)]
[Part of Psychic Eesearch (New York, February 1929), xxiii.]
Library Catalogue of the Society for Psychical Research
(Supplement 1927-1928). 8vo, pp. [109]. [London] 1928.
['ig9]
Swedenborg as a Clairvoyant. 8vo, pp. 300-310, 372-382.
[RAH 5 (15)]
[Part of The Link (Hove 1929), ii.]
Bevan (Edwyn), Sibyls and Seers : a Survey of some Ancient Theories
of Revelation and Inspiration. 8vo, pp. 189. London 1928.
[22 e 22]
Bird (J. Malcolm), Richardson (M. W.), Dudley (E. E.) and Richardson
(J. L.), The Thumb-print and Cross-Correspondence Experiments
made with the medium Margery during 1927 and 1928. 8vo,
pp. 151, 72 diagrams and ill. [6 h 9]
[Offprint from Psychic Research (New York, January-December
1928), xxii.]
Birmingham (George A.), 2:)seud. See Hannay (Canon).
Birven (Henri), Abbe Vachere. Ein Thaumaturg unserer Zeit. 8vo,
pp. 153, 9 portraits and ill. Brandenburg 1928. [8 f 14]
Bland (C. C. Swinton), Translation and edition of Herolt (J.), The
Miracles of the Blessed Virgin Mary. [22 g 9]
204 Society for Psychical Research [part
Bland (C. C. Swinton)—
and Scott (H. von E.), Translation of Caesarius of Heisterbach,
The Dialogue on Miracles. [22 g 10-11]
Blatchford (Robert), The Secrets of Life and Love, in Where are the
Dead ? [17 f 15]
Blavatsky (H. P.), Fragments from the Teachings of H. P. Blavatsky.
Compiled and edited by H. Burford Pratt. 8vo, pp. ix. 150.
London [1027]. [7 e 31]
Bloch (Marc), Les Rois Thaumaturges. iStude sur le caractere
surnaturel attribue a la puissance royale particulierement en
France et en Angleterre. 8vo, pp. vii. 542, facsimile and 4 ill.
Publications de la Faculty des Lettres de I'Universite de
Strasbourg (fascicule 19) : Strasbourg and Paris 1924. [21 f 7]
[With a bibliography.]
Boas (Franz), The Idea of the Future Life among Primitive Tribes,
in Religion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Bohme (Jacob), Six Theosophic Points and other writings. Newly
translated by .J. R. Earle. 8vo, pp. vii. 208. London 1919.
[7 c 33]
Borderieux (Carita), Les Nouveaux Animaux Pensants. Les Chevaux
d'Elberfeld, Rolf, Lola, Awa, Seppl, Senta, Bixtzi, Ali, Tommy,
Capi. Zou, le chien qui sait lire et calculer, comment je I'ai
instruit. Preface by E. Duchatel. 8vo, pp. 79, 4 ill. Paris 1927.
[With an inscription by the author.] [RP 10 (8)]
Boreas (Th.), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die. [26 h 27]
Bosanquet (Bernard), Life and Philosophy, in Contemporary British
Philosophy; First Series. [25 f 18]
Bousfield (W. R.), The Basis of Memory. 16mo, pp. 132, diagrams.
Psyche Miniatures (General Series, no. 14) : London 1928.
[Jourti. xxiv. 331 ;
inscription by the author.] [9 e 23]
Bradby (M. K.), The Logic of the Unconscious Mind. 8vo, pp. xiv. 316,
1 in. [Oxford Medical Publications] : London 1920. [1 g 42]
•
Psycho-analysis and its Place in Life. Preface by C. E.
Long. 8vo, pp. xi. 266, 1 ill. Third impression. Oxford
Medical Publications : London 1922. [10 f 24]
Bradley (F. H.), Appearance and Reality : a Metaphysical Essay,
8vo, pp. xxiv. 628. Eighth impression. Library of Philosophy
:
London 1925. [27 f 14]
Bradley (H. D.), The Reality of Physical Phenomena. 8vo, pp. 27.
London [1928]. [RS 17 (5)]
Braham (Ernest G.), Personality and Immortality in Post-Kantian
Thought. 8vo, pp. 246. London 1926. [25 h h 6]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 205
Branden (A. Paul Maerker-), Translation of Freud (S.), The Problem
of Lay-Analyses. [10 g 9]
Breasted (James Henry), Ancient Egyptian Ideas of the Life Here-
after, in Religion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Brett (George Sidney), A History of Psychology. 8vo, 3 vols. [vol. i :
impression.]
Library of Philosophy : London 1921. [25 f 1-3]
[Vol. i : ; ii : Mediaeval
and Early Modern Period ; iii : Modern Psychology. With
bibliographies.]
Broad (C. D.), Editor of McTaggart (J. MoT. E.), The Nature of
Existence, ii. ["^ i
—— Critical and Speculative Philosophy, in Contemporary British
Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
Perception, Physics, and Reality ; an enquiry uito the
information that physical science can supply about the real.
8vo, pp. xii. 388. Cambridge 1914. [17 f 22]
Brooks (C. Harry), Translation of Sunner (P.), The Brain and the
Mind. [26 b 39]
——— The Practice of Autosuggestion by the Method of Emile
- Coue. Foreword by E.Coue. 8vo,pp. 124. Sixty-first thousand,
[fourth impression of] third edition. [The " New Psychology
"
Handbooks] (no. 1): London 1928. [25 b 31]
and Charles (E.), Christianity and Autosuggestion. 8vo, pp.
142. [The " New Psychology " Handbooks (no. 4)] : London
1923. [25 b 34]
Brown (William), Editor of Psychology and the Sciences. [9 f 5]
Psychology and Medicine, in Psychology and the Sciences.^
Science and Personality. Foreword by Sir O. Lodge. 8vo,
pp. ix. 258. London 1929. [9 g 12]
Bryan (Douglas) and Strachey (A.), Translation of Abraham (K.),
Selected Papers. [10 h 13]
Buchner (Eberhard), Medien, Hexen und Geisterseher. Kultur-
historisch interessante Dokumente aus alten deutschen Zeitmigen
vmd Zeitschriften (16. bis 18. Jahrhimdert). 8vo, pp. 359.
Miinchen 1926. [17 f 14
Budge (Sir E. A. W.), Editor of [Gabra Maskal], The Life of Takla
Haymanot. \^ 205]
Editor of The Miracles of the Blessed Virgin Mary. [R 205]
Editor of One Hundred and Ten Miracles of our Lady Mary.
Bullock (Brodrick), Translation p/ Vivante (L.), Notes on the Origin-
[22 g 7]
ality of Thought. [26 h 23]
206 Society for Psychical Research [part
Burnham (William H.), The Normal Mind : an Introduction to
Mental Hygiene and the Hygiene of School Instruction. 8vo,
pp. xix. 702. New York, London 1926. [9 f 13]
[With a bibliography.]
'
Caesarius of Heisterbach, The Dialogue on Miracles. Translated by
H. von E. Scott and C. C. S. Bland, with an Introduction by
G. G. Coulton. 8vo, pp. xix. 546, 6 ill. +vii. 374, 6 ill., 2 vols.
Broadway Mediaeval Library : London 1929. [22 g 10-11]
Cameron (Norman), Cerebral Destruction in its Relation to Maze
Learning. 8vo, pp. iii. 68, 24 diagrams. Psychological Mono-
graphs (xxxix. 1 : 177) : Princeton and Albany 1928.
[With a bibliography.] [25 a 39 (177)]
Campbell (R. J.), The Dead are Alive, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
Carpenter (J. Estlin), Introduction to Hare (W. L.), Mysticism. [22 c 4]
Carr (H. A.), Psychology : a Study of Mental Activity. 8vo, pp. v.
432, 41 diagrams. [Second impression.] New York 1925. [9 f 9]
[With bibliographies.]
Carr (H. Wildon), Idealism as a Principle in Science and Philosophy,
in Contemporary British Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
The Unique Status of Man. 8vo, pp. 216. [26 h 32]
Carrington (H.) and Muldoon (S. J.), The Projection of the Astral
Body. 8vo, pp. xli. 242, 12 portraits and ill. London 1929.
[17 f 23]
•
Cell (G. C), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die. [26 h 27]
Chacornac (Paul), iSliphas Levi, renovateur de I'occultisme en France
(1810-1875). Presentation par Paul-Redonnel. Preface de
V. ]2. Michelet. 8vo, pp. xviii. 300, 43 portraits, diagrams and
in. Paris 1926. [8 d 13]
Chaddock (Charles Gilbert), Translation of Schrenck-Notzing (Freiherr
A. von), Therapeutic Suggestion in PsychoiDathia Sexualis.
[16g 15]
Chaflan Will Case, The. Introduction by E. W. 0[aten]. 8vo, pp. 14.
Manchester 1928. [RPR 12 (15)]
Charles (Ernest) and Brooks (C. H.), Christianity and Autosuggestion.
8vo, pp. 142. [The "New Psychology" Handbooks (no. 4)]:
London 1923. [25 b 34]
Charles (R. H.), A Critical History of the Doctrine of a Future Life
in Israel, in Judaism, and Christianity, or, Hebrew, Jewish, and
Christian Eschatology from Pre-Prophetic Times till the close of
the New Testament Canon. 8vo, pp. x. 484. Second edition,
.revised and enlarged. Jowett Lectures, 1898-1899 : London
1913. [22 f 16]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 207
Charles (R. H.)—
— Immortality. 4to, pp. 38. The Drew Lectiare, 1912 : Oxford
1912. [RPh5(l)]
[Chauvin (Pierre)], Lettre a Madame la Marquise de Senozan, sur les
moyens dont on s'est servy pour decouvrir les Complices d'un
assassuiat commis a Lyon, le 5°" Juillet 1692. 12mo, jjp. 69.
[ix], 1 ill. Lyon [1692]. [R 12 aa 24 (2)]
Chesterton (G. K.), The Rout of Reason, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
Chowrin (A. N.), Expei'imentelle Untersuchungen auf dem Gebiete
des raumlichen Hellsehens (der Kryptoskojiie vmd inadaequaten
Simieserregimg). Nach dem russischen Original bearbeitet imd
herausgegeben von Freiherrn von Schrenck-Notzing. 8vo, pp.
80. Mvinchen 1919. [RTC 6 (2)]
Christie (Ernest), The Mystery of the Divining Rod Solved. 12mo,
pp. 36, 6 diagrams. [London 1929.] [RDo 3 (8)]
Circular [advertising an exhibition of fire -walking to take place on
the 5th of August 1900 in the Rawalpindi District of the Punjab].
4to leaf. [RT3(18)]
Clare (Lilian A.), Translation of Levy-Bruhl (L.), How Natives Think.
[22 f 14]
— Primitive Mentality. [22 f 13]
— The " Soul " of the Primitive. [22 f 15]
Clark (M.), Avant, pendant, et par-dela la vie terrienne. 8vo, pp. 284.
Bibliotheque de Philosophie Sjjiritualiste moderne et des
Sciences psychiques : Paris 1928. [24 d 30]
Classical Psychologists. The. Selections illustrating Psychology from
Anaxagoras to Wrmdt. Compiled by B. Rand. 8vo, pp. xxi.
734. Boston, etc. 1912. [9 d 27]
Clouston (Sir T. S.), Foreword to Lugaro (E.), Modern Problems in
Psychiatry. [10 d 23]
Cole (R. H ), Mental Diseases : a Text-Book of Psychiatry for
Medical Students and Practitioners. 8vo, pp. xiv. 356, 54
diagrams and ill. (1 in colours). Third edition—revised and
entirely reset. London 1924. [10 d 22]
Collingwood (R. G.) and Hannay (A. H.), Translation o/ Ruggiero
(G. de). Modem Philosophy. [25 f 4]
Conger (George Perrigo), A Cotu-se in Philosophy. 8vo, pp. xi. 603.
London [1925]. [26 h 38]
Conklin (Edmund S.), Principles of Abnormal Psychologv. 8vo, pp.
ix. 457. London 1928. [10 e 20]
[With bibliographies.]
208 Society for Psychical Research [part
Constable (F. C), I Am. 8vo, pp. lix. 105. London 1928. [26 h 28]
Contemporary British Philosophy. Personal Statements. Edited by
J. H. Muirhead. 8vo, 2 series. [Series i : Second impression.]
Library of Philosophy: London 1925. [25 f 18-19]
[Containing statements by, series i : J. B. Baillie, B. Bosanquet,
C. D. Broad, H. W. Carr,. Viscoimt Haldane, L. T. Hobhouse,
W. R. Inge, J. Laird, J. S. Mackenzie, J. E. McTaggart, C. L.
Morgan, J. H. Muirhead, C. Read, B. Russell, F. C. S. Schiller,
W. Temple ; series ii : J. Ward, E. B. Bax, D. Fawcett, G. D.
Hicks, R. F. A. Hoernle, C. E. M. Joad, G. E, Moore J. A.
Smith, W. R. Sorley, A. E. Taylor, J. A. Thomson, C. C. J. Webb.
With bibliographies.]
Cook (Frederick Francis), Whence, Why and Whither. The Logic of
Existence and Persistence. The Rationale of Spiritualism. 8vo,
pp. 131. New York [on cover : 1909]. [RS 18 (3)]
Cornford (F. M.), Greek Views of ImmortaUty, in Immortality. '
'
"
[26 h 25]
Coue (Emile), Foreword to Brooks (C. H.), The Practice of Auto-
suggestion. [25 b 31]
, Preface to Mayo (G.), Coue for Children. [26 b 36]
Coulton (G. G.), Introduction to Caesarius of Heisterbach, The Dia-
logue on Miracles. [22 g 10-11]
Herolt (J.), The Miracles of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
[22 g 9]
Courtier (J.)., Post-Scriptmn au Rapport sur les Seances d'Eusapia
Palladino I'lnstitut General Psychologique. 8vo, pp. 167-174.
[RPR 12 (20)]
[Part of the Bulletin de I'lnstitut GenSral Psychologique (Paris
1928), xxviii.]
Craig (Sir Maurice) and Beaton (T.) Psychological Medicine: a
Manual on Mental Diseases for Practitioners and Students. 8vo,
pp. xiii. 437, 25 plates (14 in colours). Fovirth edition. London
1926. [10 e 18]
Crawfurd (Raymond), The King's Evil. 8vo, pp. 187, folding fac-
simile and 8 ill. Oxford 1911. [22 g 2]
[With a bibliography.]
Credoro (L.), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Das. [26 h 27]
Creighton (J. E.) atxd Titchener (E. B.), Translation of Wundt (W.),
Lectures on Himian and Animal Psychology. [9 c 25]
Critchley (Macdonald), Mirror-Writing. 16mo, pp. 80, 7 ill. Psyche
Miniatures : Medical Series (no. 11) : London 1928. [10 e 14]
[Joum. XXV. 96.]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 209
CuUerre (A.), Magnetisme et Hypnotisme. Expose des phenomenes
observes pendant le sommeil nerveux provoque au point de
vue clinique, psychologique, therapeutique et medico-legal, avec
un resiime historique du magnetisme animal. 12mo, pp. 358,
28 diagrams and Ul. Second edition. Bibliotheque Scientifique
Contemporaine : Paris 1887. [15 f 35]
Cumberland (Stuart), That Other World. Personal Experiences of
Mystics and their Mysticism. Svo, pp. 253. London 1918.
[On psychical phenomena.] [6 d 21]
Cummins (Geraldine), The Scripts of Cleophas. Written by the hand
of G. Cummins. With a Critical Introduction. 8vo, pp. xxi. 11-
291. London [1928]. [24 d 29]
[Journ. xxiv. 394.]
Cunynghame (Sir H.), Short Talks upon Philosophy. Svo, pp. viii.
246. London, Bombay, Sydney 1923. [26 i 8]
Cutten (George Barton), Mind : its origin and goal. Svo, pp. xiii.
213. New Haven 1925. [9 g 6]
[With a bibliography.]
Speaking with tongues historically and psychologically con-
sidered. Svo, pp. xii. 193. New Haven 1927. [22 e 21]
[With a bibliography.]
Darder (B.), Ergebnisse eines vorlaufigen Versuches zur Bestimmvmg
der Rutenwirksamkeit des Petroleimas. Svo, pp. 47-51, 2
diagrams. [6 132(12)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Klarung der Wiinschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1929), Heft 12.]
Darlington (Reginald R.), Editor of William of Malmesbury, The Vita
Wulfstani. [22 g 8]
Dashiell (John Frederick), Fundamentals of Objective Psychology.
Svo, pp. xviii. 588, 111 diagrams. London [1928]. [9 f 22]
[With bibliographies.]
Davids (C. A. F. Rhys), Editor of Manual of a Mystic. [22 b 20]
Dawson (W, S.), Aids to Psychiatry. Svo, pp. vii. 312. Second
edition. London 1928. [10 e 16]
De Brath (S.), Foreword to Lambert (H. C), A General Survey of
Psychical Phenomena. [5 e 25]
Devine (Henry), The Reality of Delusions. Svo, pp. 19-38. The
Long Fox Memorial Lecture. [BP 10 ( 14)]
[Offprint from Tfie Bristol Medico-Chirurgical Journal (Bristol
1928), xlv. Inscription by the author.]
Dodge (Raymond) aiid Travis (R. C), Experimental Analysis of the
Sensori-Motor Consequences of Passive Oscillation, Rotary and
210 Society for Psychical Research [part
Rectilinear. 8vo, pp. iv. 96, 34 diagrams. Psychological Mono-
graphs (xxxviii. 3 : 175) : Princeton and Albany 1928. [25 a]
[With a bibliography.]
Doyle (Sir A. C), Foreword to Von Reuter (F.), Psychical Experiences
of a Musician. [8 e 12]
The Answer of the Spiritualists, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
The Coming of the Fairies. 8vo, pp. 157, 15 ill. [Second
edition.] London [1928]. [17 f 26]
An Open Letter to Those of my Generation. 8vo, pp. 12.
[London 1929.] [RS 18 (4)]
Driesch (Hans), Preface to Kroner (W.), Das Ratsel von Konnersreuth.
[10 e 11]
•
Der Mensch unci die Welt. 8vo, pp. x. 135. Metaphysik imd
Weltanschauung : Leipzig 1928. [26 h 26]
[Journ. xxiv. 399.]
The Science and Philosophy of the Organism. 8vo, pp. xii.
344, 14 diagrams. Second edition. London 1929. [17 f 21]
Drummond (Margaret) and Mellone (S. H.), Elements of Psychology.
8vo, ijp. XX. 552. Sixth edition. Edinburgh and London 1926.
[9 e 2]
Duchatel (Edmond), Preface to Borderieux (C.)., Les Nouveaux
Aiiimaux Pensants. [RP 10(8)]
Dudley (E. E.), Richardson (M. W.), Bird (J. M.) and Richardson
(J. L.), The Thumbprint and Cross-Correspondence Experiments
made with the Medium Margery during 1927 and 1928. 8vo,
pp. 151, 72 diagrams and ill. [6 h 9]
[Offprint from Psychic Research (New York, January-Decem-
ber 1928), xxii.]
Duffy (Bella), Translation of Semon (R.), ^Mnemic Psychology. [9 g 16]
Dunlop (Knight), Preface to Lange (C. G.) and James (W.), The
Emotions. [9 i 15]
•
Lipps (T.), Psychological Studies. [9 i 12]
Dyck ( ), Feststelhmg geologischer Grenzen mit der Rute. 8vo, pp.
12-15, plan. [6 i 32 (12)]
[Part of Schriften des Verhands zur Klarung der Wiinschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1929), Heft 12.]
Earle (John Rolleston), Translation of Bohme (J.), Six Theosophic
. Points. _ . [7 c 33]
Eddington (A. S.), The Nature of the Physical World. 8vo, pp. xix.
361, 8 diagrams. Second impression. Gifford Lectures, 1927 :
Cambridge 1929. [17 f 20]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 211
Eddington (A. S.)—
Science and the Unseen World. 8vo, pj3. 56. Swarthmore
Lecture, 1929: London 1929. [17 g 16]
The Theory of Relativity and its Influence on Scientific
Thoiight. 8vo, pp. 32. The Romanes Lecture, 1922 : Oxford
1922. [RPh 5 (5)]
Edelborg (Faustinus), Ein Beitrag iiber die Elberfelder Pferde.
Mitgeteilt von G. E. Miiller. 8vo, pp. 258-264. [RP 10 (6)]
[Offprint from the Zeitschrift fur Psychologic (Leipzig 1915),
Ixxiii.]
En Spiritist Aften. 8vo, pp. 8, 3 ill. [RS 18 (2)]
[Offprint from the Maaneds-Magasinct (Kopenhagen).]
FroSar-Undrin Nyju. Andabirtinga-Sogur saggar af Sjonar-
votti. Asamt tveim Greinum um sama Efni eftir Alfr. Lehmann.
8vo, pp. 76. Reykjavilc 1906. [5 d 28]
Eder (M. D.), Politics, in Social Aspects of Psychoanalysis. [10 g 11]
Edgell (Beatrice), Theories of Memory. Bvo, pp. v. 174. Oxfoi-d 1927.
[9 e 25]
Egyptian Letters to the Dead, mainly from the Old and Middle
Kingdoms. Copied, translated and edited by Alan H. Gardiner
and Kurt Sethe. Foho, pp. ix. 32, 1 1 plates ( 10 on folding sheets),
the whole in a portfolio. London 1928. [R 205]
Elder (William), Studies in Psychology : Memory, Emotion, Con-
sciousness, Sleep, Dreams, and allied Mental Phenomena. 8vo,
pp. XV. 212. London 1927. [9 g 4]
[Encausse (G.)], "Wliat is Occultism ? A Philosophical and Critical
Study. Translated by F. Rothwell. 8vo, pp. v. 7- 101. London
1913. [21 c 25]
Encyclopaedia of Eeligion and Ethics. Edited by James Hastings.
4to, 13 vols. [Vol. i, first published in 1908, is of the second
impression.] Edinburgh 1909-1926. [R 18 i]
Erdmann (Johann Eduard), A History of Philosophy. Translation
edited by W. S. Hough. 8vo, pp. xx. 736 +xiv. 719 -fvh. 356,
3 vols. [Vol. i : Second impression of fourth edition ; ii : seventh
impression ; iii : Fourth impression of third edition.] Library
of Philosophy : London 1922, 1924, 1921. [25 f 15-17]
[Vol. i : Ancient and mediaeval philosophy ; ii : Modern
philosophy ; iii : German philosophy since Hegel. With biblio-
graphies.]
Erman (Wilhelm), Der Tierische Magnetismus in Preussen vor imd
nach den Freiheitskriegen. Aktenmassig dargestellt. 8vo, pp.
viii. 124. Beihefte der Historischen Zeitschrift (no. 4) : Miinchen
und Berlin 1925. [15 k 34]
Ernie (Lord), Introduction to Immortality. -
[26 h 25]
212 Society for Psychical Research [part
Estabrooks (G. H.), A Contribution to Experimental Telepathy. 8vo,
pp. 29. Boston Society [for Psychic Research (Bulletin V) :
Boston 1927. [3 f 21 (5)]
\Journ. xxiv. 329.]
Eucken (Rudolf), The Ethical Basis of Immortahtv, in Immortality.
[26 h 25]
Everett (E. E.), Finding a Soul : a Spiritual Autobiography. Preface
by V. Scully. 8vo, pp. xi. 130. London 1922. [17 e 28]
Fairbanks (Arthur), Immortality in Greek Religion, in Religion and
the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Faustinus (F.), pseud. See Edelborg (F.).
Fawcett (Douglas), Imaginism, in Contemporary British Philosophy,
Second Series. [25 f 19]
Fawkes (F. Attfield), Spiritualism Exposed. Introduction by N.
Maskelyne. 8vo, pp. 143. Bristol, London 1920. [24 c 13]
Ferenczi (S.), Introduction to Freud (S.), The Problem of Lay-
Analyses. [10 g 9]
Contributor to Psycho-analysis and the War Neuroses. [10 h 2]
Further Contributions to the Theory and Technique of
Psycho-analysis. Compiled by J. Riclmian. Authorised trans-
lation by J. I. Suttie and others. 8vo, pp. 473. The Inter-
national Library of Psycho-analysis (no. 11) : London 1926.
[With a bibliography of the author.] [10 h 11]
Firth (Violet M.), The Machinery of the Mind. Foreword by A. G.
Tansley. 8vo, pp. 102. [Third impression.] [The "New
Psychology " Handbooks (no. 2)] : London 1925. [25 b 32]
Fleuriere (Raoul de). Comment je sens fonctionner ma faculty de clair-
voyance, in Institut Metapsychique International, Les Con-
ferences en 1926. [6 i]
Fliigel (J. C), The Family, in Social Aspects of Psycho-Analysis.
[10 g 11]
The Psycho-analytic Study of the Family. 8vo, pp. xii. 259.
Third edition. The International Psycho-analytical Library
(no. 3) : London 1929. [10 h 3]
Forthuny (Pascal), Ce que je puis dire du travail de ma faculte meta-
gnomique, in Institut Metapsychique International, Les Con-
ferences en 1926. [6 i]
Foyle (W. and G.), Ltd., The Literature of Occultism and the Occult
Arts. Catalogue of Dept. No. 10. 8vo, pp. 48. London [1928].
[RBi 5 (2)]
8vo, pp. 56. London [1929]. [RBi 5 (5)]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 213
France (
Vicomte Henry de), Le Sourcier Moderne. Manuel de I'Opera-
teur a la Baguette et la Pendule, eaux, minerais, biologie. 8vo,
pp. 157, 16 diagrams and ill. Paris [1928]. [RDo 3 (3)]
[With a bibliography.]
Prazer (Sir J. G.), The Golden Bough : a Study in Magic and Religion.
Svo, 12 vols. Third edition [vols, i-iii, seventh impression ; v-vi,
third impression ; vii-ix, fifth impression ; xi-xii, fourth impres-
sion]. London 1911-1927. [22 f 1-12]
[Vols, i-ii. Part I, The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings ;
iii, Part II, Taboo and the Perils of the Soul ; iv. Part III, The
Dying God ; v-vi. Part IV, Adonis, Attis, Osiris ; vii-viii, Part
V, Spirits of the Com and of the Wild ; ix. Part VI, The Scape-
goat ; x-xi, Part VII, Balder the Beautiful ; xii. Bibliography
and General Index.]
Questions on the Customs, Beliefs, and Languages of Savages.
12mo, pp. 51. Third impression. Cambridge 1916. [RAH 5 (4)]
Freienfels (Richard Miiller), Mysteries of the Soul. Translated by
Bernard Miall. Svo, pp. 348. London 1929. [17 g 15]
Freimark (Hans), Das erotische Element im Okkultismus. Svo, pp.
60. Second-third edition. Die Okkulte Welt (no. 90/93):
PfuUingen 1922. [R 20 e 6 (90-93)]
Okkultismus u. SexuaUtat. Beitrage zur Kulturgeschichte
der Vergangenheit u. Gegenwart. Svo, pp. xvi. 433. Leipzig
n.d. [17 g 18]
Freud (S.), Introduction to Psycho-analysis and the War Neuroses.
[10 h 2]
Preface to Putnam (J. J.), Addresses on Psycho-analysis.
[10 h 1]
Introduction to Varendonck (J.), The Psychology of Day-
Dreams. [9 g 14]
An Autobiographical Study. See Freud (S ), The Problem of
Lay-Analyses.
— The Futvue of an Illusion. Translated by W. D. Robson-
Scott. Svo, pp. 98. The International Psycho-analytical
Library (no. 15) : London 1928. [10 h 15]
The Problem of Lay-Analyses. Translated by A. P. Maerker-
Branden. Introduction by S. Ferenczi. Svo, pp. 316. New
York 1927. [10 g 9]
[Contains also An Autobiographical Study, translated by J.
Strachey.]
Frobenius (Leo), Paideuma. Umrisse eiuer Kultur- und Seelenlehre.
Svo, pp. 452, 3 maps, 1 coloured plate, folding table, and dia-
grams. Third considerably enlarged edition. Frankfurt a. M.
1928. [17f24]
[Vol. iv of the author's Erlebte Erdteile.]
214 Society for Psychical Research [part
Furst (J.), Griindriss der empirischen Psychologie imd Logik. 8vo,
pp. xxiii. 209. Twenty-first edition [of J. Beck's book of the
same title.] Stuttgart 1928. [25 h h 3]
[Gabra Maskal], The Life of Takla Haymanot, in the version of Dabra
Libanos, and the Miracles of Takla Haymanot in the version of
Dabra Libanos, and the Book of the Riches of Kings. The
Ethiopia Texts, from the British Museum MS. Oriental 723,
edited with English translations, to which is added an English
translation of the Waldebban version, by E. A. Wallis Budge.
4to, pp. [v]. Ixiii. ff. 388. pp. 389-396. 141, 165 coloured plates,
2 vols. London 1906. . [R 205]
[No. 52 of an edition of 250 copies.]
Galloway (George), The Philosophy of Immortality, in Immortality.
[26 h 25]
Gar9on (Maurice), Vintras, Heresiarque et Prophete. 8vo, pp. xii.
193, portrait. Bibliotheque des Initiations IModernes (no. VI) :
Paris 1928. [8 f 14]
[Journ. XXV. 72.]
Gardiner (Alan H.) and Sethe (K.), Editors of Egyptian Letters to the
Dead. [R 205]
Gamier (Pierre), Dissertation Physique en forme de lettre, a Mon-
sieur de Seve, Seigneur de Flecheres, Conseiller du Roy, &c.,
dans laquelle il est prouve que les talens extraordinaires qu'a
Jacques Aymar, de suivre avec une Baguette les Meurtriers &
les Voleurs a la piste, de trouver de I'eau, I'argent cache, les
bornes transplantees, &c., dejaendent d'une cause tres naturelle
& tres ordinaire. 12mo, pp. 108 [iii], 1 ill. Lyon 1692.
[R 12 a a 24 (1)]
Garrett (F. Edmund), Isis very much Unveiled, being the Story of the
great Mahatma Hoax. Told from .Sources mainly Theosophical.
8vo, pp. 142, 14 portraits, facsimiles and ill. London n.d.
[Proc. xi. 155.] [7 c 34]
Garrett (Henry E.), Statistics in Psychology and Education. Intro-
duction by R. S. Woodworth. 8vo, pp. xiii. 317, 31 diagrams.
[Third impression.] New York, London, Toronto 1927. [17f25]
[With a bibliography.]
Geley (Gustave), Materialisations-Experimente mit M. Franek-Kluski.
Translated and edited, with an Appendix, " Die neuere Okkultis-
musforschung im Lichte der Gegner," by Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing. 8vo, pp. 115, 15 plates. Leipzig 1922. [5 f 21]
[With a bibliography.]
Die sog. supernormale Physiologic und die Phanomene der
Ideoplastie. Translated by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing. 8vo,
pp. 30, 10 ill. Leipzig 1920. [RPR 12 (1)]
[Offprint from Psychische Studien (Leipzig 1920), xlvii.]
Getting (Suzanne Max-), Les Rapports entre le monde des mortels et le
monde des esprits. 8vo, pp. xxii. 97. Paris 1928. [RS 17 (4)]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 215
Gillespie (R. D.) and Henderson (D. K.), A Text-Book of Psychiatry
for Students and Practitioners. 8vo, pp. x. 520. Oxford Medical
Publications : London, etc. 1927. [lOelS]
[With a bibliograpliy.]
Glover (James), Man the Individual, in Social Aspects of Psycho-
analysis. [10 g 1 1]
Glover (T. R.), The Lesson of Life, in Where are the dead ? [17 f 1.5]
Gibson (Gabriel), Translation of Nielsson (H.), Mes experiences.
[RS 17 (7)]
Gould (Frederick J.), Appendix, in Pitt (St. G. L. F.), Free Will and
Destiny. [26 h 34]
Gould (Rupert T.), Oddities. A Book of Unexi^lained Facts. 8vo,
pp. 336, 3-4 facsimiles and ill. Second impression. London 1928.
[17 f 16]
Graham (R. B. Cunninghame), A Brazilian Mystic, being the Life
and Miracles of Antonio C'onselheiro. 8vo, pjJ. xii. 238, map.
London 1920. [8 h 1]
Grandjean-Bayard ( ), Translation of Jung (C), L'Inconscient.
[10 g 12]
Green (George H.), The Daydream : a Study in Development. 8vo,
pp. 304, diagrams. London 1923. [9 f 4]
—The Terror-Dream. 8vo, pp. iii. 126. London 1927. [3 d 14]
Grey of Fallodon (Pamela, Viscoimtess), Introduction to Thomas
(C. D.), Life Beyond Death. [6 e 25]
Grillot de Givry ( ), Le Musee des Sorciers, Mages et Alchimistes.
4to, pp. vii. 450, 367 ill. and 10 plates in colour. Paris 1929.
[R 21 i 17]
Grotenfeldt (A.), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die.
[26 h 27]
Grunewald (Fritz), Versuche iiber Materialisation mid Telekinese. 8vo,
pp. 16. 15. Leipzig 1924. [RPR 12 (12)]
[Journ. xxii. 110. Offprint from Psychische Studien (Leipzig,
June, July 1924), h.]
Guthrie (H. M.) and (E. R.), Translation of Janet (P.), Principles of
Psychotherapy. [10 e 19]
Haldane (Viscoimt), The Fmiction of iMetapliysics in Scientific Method,
in Contemporary British Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
The Pathway to Reality. 8vo, pp. xxxi. 600, 2 portraits.
GifEord Lectures, 1902-1904 : London 1926. [26 i 14]
The Philosophy of Humanism and of other Subjects. 8vo,
pp. xiv. 302. London 1922. [26 i 11]
216 Society for Psychical Research [part
Haldane (Viscount)
—
The Reign of Relativity. 8vo, pp. xix. 434. Fourth edition.
London 1922. [17 e 30]
Haldane (J. S.), Mechanism, Life and Personality : an Examination
of the Mechanistic Theory of Life and Mind. 8vo, pp. vii. 152.
Second edition. London 1921. [17 g 9]
Psychology and Biology, in Psychology and the Sciences. [9 f 5]
The Sciences and Philosophy, 8vo, pp. 344. Gifford Lectures,
1927-1928: [London 1929]. [26 i 26]
Hannay (A. Howard) and Collingwood (A. G.), Translation of Ruggiero
(G. de), Modern Philosophy. [25 f 4]
Hannay (Canon), Rivers of Souls and the Eternal Sea, in Where are
the Dead ? [17 f 15]
Hare (William Loftus), Mysticism of East and West: Studies in
Mystical and Moral Philosophy. Introduction by J. E. Car-
penter. 8vo, pp. 356. London 1923. [22 c 4]
Harford (Charles F.), Mind as Force. Bvo, pp. 128. The "New
Psychology " Handbooks (no. 7) : London 1924. [25 b 37]
[With a bibliography.]
Harrow (Benjamin), From Newton to Einstein. 8vo, pp. x. 11-95.
Third impression. London 1921. [RPh 5 (3)]
Hart (Bernard), Psychopathology : its Development and its Place in
Medicine. 8vo, pp. vii. 156. Cambridge 1927. [10 e 10]
Hartenberg (Paul), Treatment of Neurasthenia. Translated by E.
Playfair. 8vo, pp. viii. 283. [Oxford Medical Publications]
:
Edinburgh, Glasgow and London 1914. [10 d 20]
Hastings (James), Editor of Encyclopaedia of Eeligion and Ethics.
[R 18 i]
Heath (Arthur George), The Moral and Social Significance of the Con-
ception of Personality. Prefatory Note by R. Lemiard and
J. D. G. Medley. 8vo, pp. viii. 159. Oxford 1921. [26 h 30]
Helms (Wilhelm), Die alte u. neue Mystik u. Magie, Okkultismus und
Parapsychologie. Katalog 133. 8vo, pp. 24. Leipzig [1928].
[RBi 4 (3)]
Heinrich (Georg), Translation of Nielsson (H.), Mes experiences.
[RS 17 (7)]
Hellwig (Albert), Betrugsverfahren gegen Kriminaltelepathen. 8vo,
pp. 15-48. [RTC 6 (10)]
[Offprint from Archiv fiir Kriminalogie (Leipzig 1929)
Ixxxiv.]
Der gegenwartige Stand der Kriminaltelepathie. 8vo, pp.
17-28. [RTC 6 (7)]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 217
HeUwig (Albert)—
[Offprint from the Moyiatsschrift fiir Kriminalpsychologie und
Strafrechtsreform (Heidelberg 1929), xx.]
Der Insterbiirger Hellseherprozess. 8vo, pp. 177-236.
[RTC 6 (8)]
[Offprint from the Archivfiir Psychiatrie (Berlin 1929), Ixxxvi.]
Okkultismus und Verbrechen. Eine Euifiilirung in die
kriminalistischen Probleme des Okkultismus fiir Polizeibeamte,
Richter, Staatsanwalte, Psychiater und Sachverstandige. 8vo,
pp. 386, 24 ill. Encyldopadie der Kriminalistik : Berlin 1929.
[Journ. XXV. 93.] [6 h 8]
— Zum Streit um die Kriminaltelepathie. 8vo, pp. 7.
[RTC 6 (9)]
[Offprint irom Zeitschriftfiir Medizinalbeamte (1929), no. 13.]
Henderson (D. K.) and Gillespie (R. D.), A Text-Book of Psychiatry
for Students and Practitioners. 8vo, pp. x. 320. Oxford
Medical PubHcations : London, etc., 1927. [10 e 13]
[With a bibliography.]
Henry (George W.), Essentials of Psychiatry. With a chapter on
Psychiatric Nursing by A. Poston. Introduction by T. W.
Salmon. 8vo, pp. xiv. 199. Baltimore 1925. [10 d 21]
Herbert (S.), The Unconscious Mind : a Psycho-analytical Survey.
8vo, pp. vii. 230. London 1923. [1 g 43]
[With a bibliography.]
Herolt (Johannes), The Miracles of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Trans-
lated from the Latin, with a Preface and Notes, by C. C. S.
Bland and an Introduction by E. Power. 8vo, pp. xxxv. 148,
8 plates. Broadway Mediaeval Library : London 1928. [22 g 9]
Herrick (C. Judson), An Introduction to Neurology. 8vo, pp. 406,
140 diagrams. Fourth edition, thoroughly revised. Philadelphia,
London 1927. [17 g 11]
[With bibliographies.]
Herzberg (Alexander), Methode und Ergebnisse des Berliner tele-
pathischen Rxmdfunkversuchs. 8vo, pp. 66-106. [RTC 6 (5)]
[Journ. xxiv. 392. Offprint from the Zeitschrift fiir ange-
wandte Psychologic (Leipzig 1928), xxxi. Inscription by the
author.]
Heuze (Paul), La Plaisanterie des Animaux Calculateurs. 8vo, pp.
v. 207. [On cover : 2' miUe.] Paris 1928. [3 a 38]
Hewitt (E. P.), " I heard a Voice," or the Great Exploration. By
A King's Counsel. 8vo, pp. 272. London 1918. [24 b 17]
—,
" So Saith the Spirit." By A King's Counsel. 8vo, pp. 201.
London 1919. [24 h 30]
218 Society for Psychical Research [part
Hewlett (Maurice H.), Immortality in the Poets in Immortality.
[26 h 25]
Hicks (G. Dawes), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die.
[26 h -27]
From Idealism to Realism, in Contemporary British Philo-
sophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
Hill (J. A.), Psychical Science and Religious Belief. 8vo, pp. 192.
London [1928]. [5 e 32]
[Jouni. XXV. 32.]
Hobhouse (L. T.), The Philosophy of Development, in Contemporary
British Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
Hodgson (Shadworth H.), The Metaphysic of Experience. Svo, 4 vols.
London 1898. [25 i 19-22]
[Vol. i : General analysis of experience ; ii : Positive science ;
iii : Analysis of conscious action ; iv : The foimdation of ethics,
The real universe.]
Hoernle (R. F. Alfred), On the Way to a Synoptic Philosophy, in
Contemporary British Philosophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
Hoffmann (D. Richard), Preface to Nielsson (H.), Mes experiences.
[RS 17 (7)]
Hole (Donald), Spiritualism in relation to Science and Religion. Svo,
vi. 113. London [1928]. [24 d 40]
Hollander ( Bernard) , Methods and Uses of Hypnosis and Self-Hypnosis
:
a Treatise on the Powers of the Subconscious Mind. Svo, pp. 191.
London 1928. [15 g 23]
Hollingworth (Harry L.), The Psychology of Thought approached
through Studies of Sleeping and Dreaming. Svo, pp. xvii. 329.
New York, London 1926. [9 f 12]
Hopkins (E. Washburn), Immortality in India, in Religion and the
Future Life. [22 g 6]
Hopkins (Matthew), The Discovery of Witches, in Summers (M.), The
Discovery of Witches. [21 f 6]
Hough (Wilhston S.), Editor of the translation o/ Erdmann (J. E.),
A History of Philosophy. [25 f 15-17]
Hudson (Cyril E.), Recent Psychology and the Christian Religion :
some Pomts of Contact and Divergence. Svo, pp. 121. [The
" New Psychology " Handbooks (no. 3)] : London 1923.
[25 b 33]
Hugon (Paul D.), Our Minds and Our Motives : a Dictionary of
Human Behaviour. Svo, pp. vii. 475. Second impression.
New York, London 1929. [9 f 21]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 219
Hunt (H. Ernest), Why We Survive : Chapters on the Dualitv of
Self. 8vo, pp. 126. London [1928]. ['lie 1]
Hurst (Arthur F.), The Croonian Lectures on the Psychology of the
Special Senses and their Functional Disorders. 8vo, pp. x. 123,
30 diagrams and ill. [Oxford Medical Publications] : London
1920. [10el2]
Huxley (Julian), My Idea of Survival, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
Immortality. By Sir Flinders Petrie, F. M. Cornford, A. A. Macdonell,
Adam C. Welch, R. G. Macmtyre, G. Galloway, Rudoh' Eucken,
E. W. Barnes, filaurice H. Hewlett. Introduction by Lord
Emle. Edited by Sir James Marchant. 8vo, pp. xi. 194.
London and New York 1924. [26 h 25]
Incidents and Discussions. 8vo, pp. 100, 2 facsmiiles. Boston
Society for Psychic Research (BuUetm X) : Boston 1929.
[Joiirn. XXV. 148.] '
[3 f 22]
Inge (W. R.), Personal Idealism and Mysticism. 8vo, pp. xvi. 186.
Third edition. London 1924. [22 c 3]
Philosophy and Religion, i)i Contemporary British Philosophy,
First Series. [25 f 18]
—• The PhilosojDhy of Plotinus. 8vo, pp. xx. 270 + xii. 254, 2 vols.
Third edition. Gifford Lectures, 1917- 1918 : London, New York,
Toronto 1929. [26 i 18-19]
— Studies of English Mystics. 8vo, pp. vii. 239. [Third impres-
sion.] St. Margaret's Lectures, 1905 : London 1921. [22 c 2]
[Institoris (Henricus) and Sprenger (J.)],Maneus Maleficorum. Trans-
lated, with an Introduction, BibliograiDhy and Notes, by Mon-
tague Summers. 4to, pp. xlv. 278, jjortrait. [London] 1928.
[No. 31 of an edition of 1275 copies.] [R 21 h 20]
Jacks (L. P.), Psychology and Ethics, in Psychology and the Sciences.
[9 f 5]
Jackson (A. V. Williams), The Ancient Persian Doctrine of a Future
Life, in Religion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
James (William), Collected Essays and Reviews. [Edited by R. B.
Perry.] 8vo, pp. x. 516. London 1920. [9 c 24]
Some Problems of Philosophy : a Beginning of an Introduc-
tion to Philosophy. 8vo, pp. xii. 237. Seventh impression.
'
. • New York 1928. [26 i 17]
and Lange (C. G.), The Emotions. Preface by K. Dunlop.
8vo, pp. 125, diagrams. Psychology Classics (vol. i) : Baltimore
1922. . [9 i 15]
Janet (Pierre), De I'Angoisse a I'Extase. fitudes sur les croyances et
les sentiments. Un Delire Religieux. La Croyance. [vol. ii
:
220 Society for Psychical Research [part
Janet (Pierre)
—
Les Sentiments Fondamentaux.] 8vo, pp. vi. 527, 40 ill. (3 in
colours) + iii. 697,2 vols. Travaux du Laboratoire de Psychologie
de la Salpetriere (series 9-10) : Paris 1926-1928. [9 i 9-10]
L'lSvolution de la memoire et de la notion du temps. I. La
Duree. [II. La Memoire iSlementaire ; III. L' Organisation du
Temps.] 8vo, pp. 173-l-ii. 175-419 -I- iv. 420-624, 3 vols. Paris
1928. [9 i 11]
Principles of Psychotherapy. Translated by H. M. and E. R.
Guthrie. 8vo, pp. xviii. 322. London 1925. [10 e 19]
Jastrow (Joseph), The Psychology of Conviction : a Study of Beliefs
and Attitudes. 8vo, pp. xix. 387. Boston and New York 1918.
[9 d 25]
Jastrow (Morris), Immortality among the Babylonians and Assyrians,
in Religion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Jayne (Walter Addison), The Healing Gods of Ancient Civilisations.
8vo, pp. xxxix. 569, 7 ill. New Haven 1925. [22 g 1]
[With a bibliography.]
Joad (C. E. M.), Mind and Matter : an Introduction to the Study of
Metaphysics. 8vo, pp. 170. London n.d. [3 b 21]
[With a bibliography.]
A Bealist Philosophy of Life, i7i Contemporary British Philo-
sophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
Jones (E.), Introductory Memoir in Abraham (K.), Selected Papers.
[10 h 13]
Editor of International Psycho-analytical Library, The.
[10 h 1, etc.l
Obituary [of the author], in Putnam (J. J.), Addresses on
Psycho-analysis. [10 h 1]
—
Editor of Social Aspects of Psycho-analysis. [10 g 11]
The Relationship of Psycho-analysis to Sociology, in Social
Aspects of Psycho-analysis. [10 g 11]
War Shock and Freud's Theory of the Neuroses, in Psycho-
analysis and the War Neuroses. [10 h 2]
Jones ( W. Tudor), Metaphysics of Life and Death. 8vo, pp. x. 1 1-202.
Library of Philosophy and Religion : London, Toronto n.d.
[With a bibhography.] [25 h h 2]
Jordan (G. J.), A Short Psychology of Religion. 8vo, pp. 160.
London 1927.
'
[9 f 18]
[With a bibliography.]
Jorgensen (Johannes), Lourdes. Translated with the Author's
sanction from the original Danish by I. Limd. Preface by H.
Belloc. 8vo, pp. xvii. 195, 9 portraits and ill. London 1914.
[17 g 5]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 221
Jung (C. G.), Contributions to Analytical Psychology. Translated by
H. G.andC.F.Baynes. 8vo, pp. xi. 410. London 1928. [10 g 8]
L'Inconscient dans la vie psychique normale et anormale.
Translated by Grandjean-Bayard. 8vo, pp. 191. Paris 1928.
[lOg 12]
Two Essays on Analytical Psychology. I. The Unconscious
in the Normal and Pathological Mind. II. The Relation of the
Ego to the Unconscious. Authorised translation by W. G. and
C. F. Baynes. 8vo, pp. xviii. 280. London 1928. [10 g 7]
Kahn (Lina), Metaphysics of the Supernatural as illustrated by
Descartes. 8vo, pp. viii. 66. Archives of Philosophy (no. 9) :
New York 1918. [RPh 5 (2)]
[With a bibliography.]
Kaploun (Albert), Psychologie Generate tiree de I'etude du reve. 8vo,
pp. 205. Lausanne 1919. [3 c 30]
Karlik, Anna. Anerkennungen und Kritiken iiber hellseherische und
psychometrische Sitzungen, sowie Ausziige aus Sitzimgsproto-
kollen. 8vo, pp. [11]. Berlin [1928]. [RTC 6 (4)]
Keatinge (M. W.), Psychology and Education, in Psychology and the
Sciences. [9 f 5]
Keith (Sir Arthur), Wliere are the Dead ? in Where are the Dead 7
[17fl5]
Kelso (J. A.), Introduction to Ormond (A. T.), The Philosophy of
Religion. [26 i 10]
Kemmerich (Max), Die Briicke zum Jenseits. Erweiterte Neubear-
beitung von " Gespenster und Spuk." 8vo, pp. 709. Munich
1927. [6 e 19]
[This book was withdrawn from circulation.]
Kennedy (Foster), Introduction to Berry (R. J. A.), Brain and Mind.
[9 i 13]
Kerner (Justinus), Justinus Kerner imd sein Miinchener Freundes-
Icreis. Eine Sammlung von Briefen herausgegeben von Franz
Pocci. 8vo, pp. 400, 8 portraits and ill. Leipzig 1928. [8 d 14]
[With a bibliography.]
Kingsland (William), Rational Mysticism : a Development of
Scientific Idealism. 8vo, pp. 432. London 1924. [22 c 5]
•
The Real H. P. Blavatsky : a Study in Theosophy, and a
Memoir of a Great Soul. 8vo, pp. xiii. 322, 3 portraits. London
1928. [8 c 17]
[With a bibUography,]
Kirchmeier (Theodore), Curioser Tractat Von der Wunschel-Ruthe/
Aus dem Lateinischen ins Teutsche ubersetzet Von M. M. 8vo,
pp. 67. Dresden und Leipzig 1702. [R 20 d 54]
222 Society for Psychical Research [part
Kittredge ( George Lyman), Witchcraft in Old and New England. 8vo,
pp. ix. 641. Cambridge, Mass. 1929. [21 f 8]
Klinckowstroem (Graf K. von) ,Der Okkultismus und seine Erforschung.
Folio leaf. [RF 41]
[Part of the Neue Freie Presse (Vienna, 20 May 1928), no.
22873.]
Die Tricks der physikalischen Medien. 4to, pp. 489-496, 7 ill.
[RT 3(17)]
[Part of Schools Magazin (May 1928.)]
Zur Psychologie des Okkultisten. 8vo, pp. 68-88.
[RPR 12 (4)]
[Offprint from Waldenbiirger Schriften (1927), Heft 7.]
Kliiver (Heinrich), Supplement to Murphy (G.), An Historical Intro-
duction to Modern Psychology. [9 g 2]
Knowles (David), The English Mystics. 8vo, pp. ix. 210. London
1927. [22 b 21]
Knox (E. A.), The Unspeakable Glory of Eternity, in Where are the
Dead ? [17 f 15]
Knox (Howard V.), The Philosophy of William James. 8vo, pp. x.
112. Philosophies: Ancient and IModern : London 1914.
[With a bibliography.] [8 d 16]
Kolubowskij (J.), Collaborator hi Philosophie des Auslandes, Die.
[26 h 27]
Kremer (Rene), La Theorie de la coimaissance chez les Neo-Realistes
Anglais. 8vo, pp. ii. 204. Bibliotheque de ITnstitut Superieur
de Philosophie : Louvain, Paris 1928. [26 i 27]
Kroner (Walther), Das Ratsel von Konnersreuth imd Wege zu seiner
Lcsung. Studie eines Parapsychologen. Preface by Hans
Driesch. 8vo, pp. 91. Miinchen 1927. [10 e 11]
[With an inscription by the author. The case of Therese
Neumann.]
Kriiger (Gustav), The Inunortality of Man according to the Views of
the Men of the Enlightenment. 12mo, pp. v. 39. The IngersoU
Lecture, 1926 : Cambridge [U.S.A.] 1927. [26 h 31]
Kiilpe (Oswald), Outlines of Psychology, based upon the results of
experimental investigation. Translated by E. B. Titchener.
8vo, pp. xi. 462. [Second] imjDression of third edition. London
1921. [9 g 17]
[With bibliographies.]
Laird (John), How our Minds go beyond themselves in their knowing,
in Contemporary British Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
The Idea of the Soul. 8vo, pp. viii. 192. Library of Philo-
sophy and Religion : London, Toronto [1924]. [9 f 8]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 223
Laird (John)—
•
Our Minds and their Bodies. 8vo, pp. 122. London 1925.
[With a bibhography.] [3 b 20]
Lambert (Helen C), A General Survey of Psychical Phenomena.
Foreword by Stanley De Brath. 8vo, pp. xxiii. 165, 15 fac-
similes and ill. New York 1928. [5 e 25]
[Jour?i. xxiv. 399.]
— and others, Evidential Incidents. 8vo, pp. 82, portrait and
3 ill. Boston Society for Psychic Research (i?ulletin IX) :
Boston 1928. [3 f 22]
[Joitrn. xxiv. 314.]
Lamond (John), Miracles in Modern Life. 8vo, pp. xii. 122, 1 ill.
London 1928. [24 e 2]
Lange (Carl Georg) and James (W.), The Emotions. Preface by K.
Dimlop. 8vo, pp. 135, diagram. Psychology Classics (vol. i) :
Baltimore 1922. [9 i 15]
Lasserre (Henri), Les Episodes Miraculeux de Lourdes. Le Miracle
de I'Assomption. Le Menuisier de Lavaur. Mademoiselle de
Fontenay. La Neuvaine du Cure d'Alger. Les Temoins de ma
Guerison. 8vo, pp. 423, numerous ill. Thirty-sixth edition.
Paris and Limoges 1893. [21 g 30]
Latta (Robert), Editor of Leibniz (G. W.), The Monadology. [26 h 33]
Leary (Daniel Bell), Modern Psychology, Normal and Abnormal. A
Behaviorism of Personality. 8vo, pp. xiv. 441. Philadelphia
and London 1928. .
[9 g 7]
[With bibliographies.]
Lee (Vernon), Introduction to Semon (R.), Mnemic Psychology.
'[9
g 16]
Lehmann (Alfred), Hr. Faustinus sem visindamaSur og maSur, in
Faustinus (F.), FroSar-Undrin Nyju. [5 d 28]
VaruSarreglur, in Faustinus (F.), Fi-Sdar-Undriii Nvju.
[5 d 28]
Leibniz (Gottfried Wilhelm), The ^Monadology and other Philosophical
Writings. Translated, with introduction and notes, by R. Latta.
8vo, pp. xi. 437. Second impression. Oxford 1925. [26 h 33]
Lennard (Reginald) and Medley (J. D. G.), Prefatory Note to Heath
(A. G.), The Moral and Social Significance of the Conception of
Personality. [26 h 30]
Lepicier (Cardinal Alexis Henry M.), The Unseen World : an Exposi-
tion of Catholic Theology in Reference to Modern Sisiritism.
8vo, pp. xix. 332. New English edition, greatly enlarged.
[London] 1929. [17 g 19]
224 Society for Psychical Research [part
Leroy (Olivier), La Levitation. Contribvition historique et critique
a I'etude du merveilleiix. 8vo, pp. 387. Les iScrivains du
Nouveau Siecle (vol. ix) : Paris 1928. [22 e 19]
[Proc. xxxviii. 272. With a bibliography.]
Levitation : an Examination of the Evidence and
Explanations. 8vo, pp. xiii. 276. London 1928. [22 g 12]
[With a bibliography.]
Lestchinsky (A.) and Baudouin (C), The Inner Discipline. Translated
by E. and C. Paul. 8vo, pp. 229. The " New Psychology "
Handbooks (no. 10) : London 1924. [25 b 40]
Lettre a Madame la Marquise de Senozan, sur les moyens dont on
.s'est servy pour decouvrir les Complices d'lm assassinat commis
a Lyon, le 5"" Juillet 1692. [By P. Chauvin.] 12mo, pp. 69
[ix], 1 ill. Lyon [1692]. [R 12 a a 24 (2)]
L6vi (Eliphas). See Constant (A. L.).
Levy-Bruhl (Lucien), How Natives Think. (Les fonctions mentales
dans les societes inferieures.) Authorised translation by L. A.
Clare. 8vo, pp. 392. London 1926. [22 f 14]
Primitive Mentality. Authorised translation by L. A. Clare.
8vo, pp. 458. London 1923. [22 f 13]
—- The " Soul " of the Primitive. Authorised translation by
L. A. Clare. 8vo, pp. 351. London 1928. [22 f 15]
Lewin (Thomas H.); Life and Death : being an Authentic Account of
the Deaths of one himdred celebrated men and women, with
their portraits. 4to, pp. xxiii. 231, 105 plates. London 1910.
[R 21 i 16]
Liljequist (E.), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die.
[26 h 27]
Lindsay (James), Great Philosophical Problems. 8vo, pp. vii. 281.
Edinburgh, London 1922. [25 h h 8]
Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die. [26 h 27]
Lipps (Theodor), Psychological Studies. Second, revised and enlarged
edition. Translated by H. C. Sanborn. Preface by K. Dunlop.
8vo, pp. 333. Psychology Classics (vol. ii) : London 1926.
[9 i 12]
Lloyd (Arthur Selden), Foreword to Walsh (W. T.), Scientific Spiritual
Healing. [17 f 27]
Lodge (Sir 0. J.), Foreword to Brown (W.), Science and Personality.
[9 g 12]
Foreword to Love and Death. [22 b 23]
— The Discovery of the Spiritual World, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
113] Supplementary Lihrary Catalogue, 1928-1929 225
Lodge (Sir 0. J.)—
Why I Believe in Personal Immortality. 8vo, pp. viii. 151,
portrait and six ill. Third impression. London, etc. 1928.
[Journ. xxiv. 332.] [6 e 24]
Svo, pp. viii. 151, portrait and six ill. Second impres-
sion. London, etc., 1928. [R 19 f 23]
[With an inscription by the author.]
Svo, pp. viii. 151. London 1928. [R 19 f 21]
[A set of page proofs containing on pp. 73-80 matter replaced
by other matter in the published book. This volume is not
accessible until 1948. With an inscription by the author.]
— [Another copy, an exact duplicate of the above.]
[R 19 f 2^
Pourquoi je crois h I'immortalite personnelle. [With a
new Preface.] 8vo, pp. 210, portrait. Paris 1929.
Long (Constance E), Preface to Bradby (M. K.), Psycho-analysis.
[10 f 24]
Love and Death. A Narrative of Fact. Foreword by Sir O. Lodge.
Svo, pp. xviii. 19-159. London [1923 ?]. [22 b 23]
Low (Barbara), Education, in Social Aspects of Psycho-analysis.
[10 g 11]
Luce (Gaston), Leon Denis, I'Apotre du Spiritisme. La vie—son
ceuvre. Svo, pp. 308, portrait. Paris 1928. [8 c 15]
Luckiesh (M.), Visual Illusions : their causes, characteristics and
applications. Svo, pp. ix. 252, 100 diagrams and ill. New York
1922. [3 a 10]
Lugaro (Ernesto), Modern Problems in Psychiatry. Translated by
D. Orr and R. G. Rows. Foreword by Sir T. S. Clouston. Svo,
pp. vii. 305. Second edition. PubUcations of the University of
Manchester : Medical Series (no. XII) : Manchester 1913. [10 d 23]
Lund (Ingeborg), Translation of Jorgensen (J,), Lourdes. [17 g 5]
Lutoslawski (W.), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die.
[26 h 27]
Lynch (Arthur), Principles of Psychology : the Foundation Work of
the Aletheian System of Philosophy. Svo, pp. xxiii. 408.
London 1923. [9 g 1]
Lynd (Robert), When Imagination is Certain, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
M. (M.), Translation of Kirchmeier (T.), Curioser Tractat von der
Wunschel-Ruthe. [R 20 d 54]
McCabe (Joseph), The Lourdes Miracles : a Candid Inquiry. Svo,
pp. 71. London 1925. [21 g 31]
226 Society for Psychical Research [part
MacCurdy (John T.), Problems in Dynamic Psychology: a Critique
of Psychoanalysis and Suggested Formulations. 8vo, pp. xv.
383. Cambridge 1923. [9 f 2]
MacDonald (Duncan Black), Immortality in Mohammedanism, in
Religion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Macdonell (A. A.), Immortality in Indian Thought, in Immortality.
[26 h 25]
McDougall (William), Modern Materialism and Emergent Evolution.
8vo, pp. xi. 295. London 1929. [25 hh 5]
Macintyre (Ronald G.), The Christian Idea of Immortality, in Im-
mortality. [26 h 25]
Mackenzie (J. S.), Constructive Philosophy, in Contemporary British
Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
Macnamara (N. C), Instinct and Intelligence. Svo, pp. viii. 9-216,
17 diagrams and ill. London 1915. [9 d 23]
McTaggart (John McTaggart Ellis), The Nature of Existence. [Vol.
ii : Edited by C. D. Broad.] Svo, pp. xxi. 309+xlvii. 480,
2 vols. Cambridge 1921-1927. [26 i 6-7]
An Ontological Idealism, in Contemporary British Philosophy,
First Series. [25 f 18]
MacWilliam (John), Criticism of the Philosophy of Bergson. Svo,
pp. xii. 336. Edinburgh 1928. [25 hh 4]
Maeterlinck (Maurice), Le Temple enseveli. Svo, pp. v. 309. Thirty-
fifth [on cover : thirty-eighth] thousand. Paris 1923. [17 g 17]
[Proc. xvii. 411.]
Maher (Michael), Preface to Walker, (L. J.), Theories of Knowledge.
[26 h 35]
Psychology : Empirical and Rational. Svo, pp. xv. 603. xii.,
4 plates. Ninth edition (thirty-ninth to forty-first thousand).
Stonyhurst Philosophical Series : London 1925. [9 f 10]
Maltzahn (F. von), Hat die Wiinschelrute eine Zukimft ? Svo, pp.
16-26, 2 diagrams. [6 i 32 (12)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands znr Klarung der Wiinschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1929), Heft 12.]
Manual of a Mystic. Being a translation from the Pali and Sinhalese
work entitled the Yogavachara's Manual, by F. L. Woodward.
Edited, with introductory essay, by C. A. F. Rhys Davids. Svo,
pp. xxii. 159. Pali Text Society (Translation Series, VI) :
London 1916. [22 b 20]
Marchant (Sir James), Editor of Immortality. [26 h 25]
Marett (R. R.), Psychology and Anthropology, in Psychology and the
Sciences. [9 f 5]
113] Supplementanj Library Catalogue, 1928 1929 227
Martin (Alfred W.), Faith in a Future Life (Foundations). 8vo, pp.
xvii. 203. New York, London 1916. [17 d 25]
— Psychic Tendencies of To-day : an Exposition and Critique
of New Thouglit, Christian Science, Spiritualism, Psychical
Research (Sir Oliver Lodge) and Modern Materialism in Relation
to Immortality. 8vo, pp. vii, 161. New York, London 1918.
[IV g 8]
Martin (Everett Dean), Psychology : what it has to teach you about
yourself and the world you live in. 8vo, pp. 380. London 1926.
[9 f 14]
Marvin (Frederic R.), Tlie Philosophy of Spiritualism and the Treat-
ment of Mediomania. 8vo, pp. 68. New York 1874. [23 b 20]
Maskelyne (Nevil), Introduction to Fawkes (F. A.), Spiritualism
Exposed. [24 c 33]
Mayo (Gertrude), Coue for Children. Preface by E. Coue. 8vo, pp.
126, 7 portraits and ill. The " New Psychology " Handbooks
(no. 6) : London 1923. [25 b 36]
Meek (Maximilien de), M^tapsychisme et Occultisme. 8vo, pp. v. 295.
Paris 1928. [22 e 18]
[With a bibliography ; inscription by the author.]
Medley (John D. G.) and Lennard (Reginald), Prefatory Note to
Heath (A. G.), The Moral and Social Significance of the Concep-
tion of Personality. [26 h 30]
Mellone (Sydney Herbert) and Drummond (M.), Elements of Psycho-
logy. 8vo, pp. XX. 552. Sixth edition. Edinburgh and London
1926. [9 e 27]
Merz (John Theodore), A Fragment on the Human Mind. 8vo. pp.
XV. 309. Edinburgh and London 1919. [9 d 26]
Miall (Bernard), Translation of Freienfels (R. M.), Mysteries of the
Soul. [17 g 15]
Translation of Satow (L.), Hypnotism and Suggestion. [15 h ] 1]
Michelet (Victor £mile), Preface to Chacornac (P.), filiphas Levi.
[8 d 13]
Miles (Peter), Introduction to Teachings of Osiris, The. [24 d 39]
Miles (Walter R.) and Starch (D.), Editors of University of Iowa
Studies in Psychology, no. XII. [25 a]
Miracles of the Blessed Virgin Mary, The, and the Life of Hanna
(Saint Anne), and the Magical Prayers of 'Aheta Mikael. ' The
Ethiopic texts edited with English translations, etc., by E. A.
Wallis Budge. 4to, pp. [iii]. Ixv. ff. 158. pp. 159-220. ff. 116,
111 coloured plates. Lady Meux MSS. (nos. 2-5) : London
1900. [R 205]
[No. 251 of an edition of 300 copies.]
228 Society for Psychical Research [part
Mitchell (T. W.), Psychology and Psychical Research, in Psychology
and the Sciences. [9 f 5]
Montague (Wm. Pepperell), The Ways of Ivnowing or the Methods of
Philosophy. 8vo, pp. 427. Second impression. Library of
Philosophy : London 1928. [25 f 5]
Monteith (Mary E.), A Book of True Dreams. 8vo, pp. 220. London
1929. [3 d 15]
Moore (G. E.), A Defence of Common Sense, in Contemporary British
Philosophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
Morgan (C. Lloyd), A Philosophy of Evolution, in Contemporary
British Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
Morse (J. J.), Editor of Spiritual Review, The. [15 h 13 (2)]
Moseley (Sydney A.), The Mysterious Medium. 8vo, pp. 223. London
[1924]. [5 d 29]
Moss (Rosalind), The Life after Death in Oceania and the Malay
Archipelago. Foreword by R. R. Marett. 8vo, pp. xii. 247,
2 maps. Oxford 1925. [22 g 3]
[With a bibliography.]
Muirhead (J. H.), Past and Present in Contemporary Philosophy, in
Contemporary British Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
Muldoon (Sylvan J.) and Carrington (H.), The Projection of the
Astral Body. 8vo, pp. xli. 242, 12 portraits and ill. London
1929. [17f23]
Miiller (G. E.), Editor of Edelborg (F.), Ein Beitrag uber die Elber-
felder Pferde. [RP 10 (6)]
Miiller (Rudolf), Das Hypnotische Hellseh-Experiment im Dienste
der Naturwissenschaftlichen Seelenforschimg. I Band. Der
Veranderungsgesetz. [II Band. Das normale Bewusstsein
;
III Band. Wille; Hypnose ;
Zweck.] 8vo, pp. viii. 609, 3 vols.
Leipzig [1897-1899]. [15 k 35]
[Proc. xiv. 389.]
Mannings (Frederick Tansley), [A collection of cuttings from the
London Press, dating from 1922 and onwards, relating to this
medium]. 4to. [R 14 h 1]
Miinsterberg (Hugo), Psychology, General and Apphed. 8vo, pp.
xiv. 487. New York, London 1925. [9 f 11]
[With bibliographies.]
Murphy (Gardner), An Historical Introduction to Modern Psychology.
With a Supplement by H. Kliiver. 8vo, pp. xvii. 470. In-
ternational Library of Psychology, Philosophy and Scientific
Method : London 1929. [9 g 2]
Nicholson (D. H. S.), The Mysticism of St. Francis of Assisi. 8vo,
pp. 326, 8 ill. London 1923. [22 c 1]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 229
Niellson (Haraldur), Mes experiences personnelles en spiritualisme
experimental. L'!figlise et les recherches psychiques. De la
mort. Translated into German by G. Heinrich and from the
German by G. Gobron. Preface by D. R. Hoffmann. 8vo, pp.
130. Paris 1929. [RS 17 (7)]
Normal and Supernormal Phenomena. 8vo, pp. 229-231.
[RPR 12 (17)]
[Part of Nature (London, 18 August 1928), cxxii ; a reply to
R. J. Tillyard, Evidence of Survived of a Human Personality.]
0. (E. W.). See Oaten (E. W.).
[Oaten (E. W.)], Introduction to Chaffin Will Case, The. [RPR 12 (15)]
Oesterley (W. 0. E.), Life, Death, and Immortality : Studies in the
Psalms. Svo, pp. XV. 118. London 1911. '
[22 e 25]
One Hundred and Ten Miracles of our Lady Mary. Translated from
Ethiopic Manuscripts for the most part in the British Museimi,
with Extracts from some Ancient European Versions, and
Illustrations from the Paintings m Manuscripts by Ethiopian
Artists, by Sir E. A. W. Budge. 8vo, pp. Ivix. 359, 64 plates.
London, Liverpool, Boston 1923. [22 g 7]
Ormond (Alexander Thomas), The Philosophy of Religion. Fore-
word by Woodrow Wilson. Introduction by J. A. Kelso. 8vo,
pp. XV, 195, portrait. Princeton 1922. [26 i 10]
Orr (David) and Rows (R. G.), Translation of Lugaro (E.), Modem
Problems in Psychiatry. [10 d 23]
Orton (J. Louis), Hypnotism made Practical. 8vo, pp. 123. London
[1929]. [15g24]
Osborn (Arthur W.), Spiritualism and Theosophy, Svo, pp. 76.
Melbourne 1926. [24 d 38]
Osswald (Kurt), Rutenversuche in Spanien. Svo, pp. 41-45.
[6 i 32 (12)]
[Part of Schriften des Verbands zur Kldrung der Wiinschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1929), Heft 12.]
Osty (E.), L'Individualite humaine (ce qu'elle represente aujoxird'hui
pour la science universitaire et pour la science m6tapsychique),
in Institut Metapsychique International, les Conferences en 1926.
[6 i]
Ovinck (B. J. H.), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die.
[26 h 27]
Owen (G. Vale), Problems which Perplex (Mainly Psychic) explained
by Question and Answer. Svo, pp. 157. London [1927]. [17 f 11]
P. (M.), Hints for the " Evidences of Spiritualism." Svo, pp. vii. 119.
London 1872. [23 b 19]
230 Society for Psychical Research [part
Parsons (Sir John Herbert), An Introduction to the Theory of Percep-
tion. 8vo, pp. viii. 254, 71 diagrams. The Cambridge Psycho-
logical Library : Cambridge 1927. [17 f 18]
Paton (Lewis Bayles), Immortality in the Hebrew Religion, iii Religion
and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Spiritism and the Cult of the Dead in Antiquity. 8vo, pp.
xiii. 325. London 1921. [22 f 17]
Pattison (A. Seth Pringle-), The Idea of Immortality. 8vo, pp. xii.
210. The Gifford Lectures, 1922 : Oxford 1922. [26 h 37]
The Philosophical Radicals and other essays. With chapters
reprinted on the Philosophy of Religion in Kant and Hegel. 8vo,
pp. xi. 336. Edinburgh and London 1907. [26 h 36]
Paul (Eden) and (Cedar), Translation of Baudouin (C), The Power
within Us. [25 b 35]
, Studies in Psychoanalysis. [10 f 25]
and Lestchinsky (A.), The Inner Dis-
cipline. [25 b 40]
Pearl (Raymond), The Biology of Death. 8vo, pp. 275, 64 diagrams
and ill. Monographs on Experimental Biology : Philadelphia,
London 1922. [17 e 29]
Pelikan (F.), Collaborator in Philosophie des Auslandes, Die. [26 h 27]
Pereira (Alfonso Arteaga), Preface to Schrenck-Notzing (Baron A.
von), Los Fenomenos de la Mediumnidad. [6 h 7]
Perry (Ralph Barton), Editor of James (W.), Collected Essays. [9 c 24]
Peter (Josef), Die Stimde nach dem Tode vom Standpimkt der
okkultistischen Forschung. Ein Trosteswort fiir Trauernde und
Betriibte ! 8vo, pp. 32. Third-fifth edition. Die Okkulte Welt
(no. 84/85) : Pfullingen 1921. [R 20 e]
Petrie (Sir W. M. Flinders), Egyptian Conceptions of Inmiortality, in
Immortality. [26 h 25]
Pfister (Oskar), Some Apjslications of Psycho-analysis. Authorised
English version. 8vo, pp. 352. London 1923. [10 g 10]
Philosophie des Auslandes, Die, vom Beginn des 19. Jalirhmiderts bis
auf die Gegenwart. Zwolfte, mit einem Philosophenregister
versehene Auflage. In grossenteils volHgneuer Bearbeitung.
Unter Mitwirktmg vonTh. Ruyssen, G. Dawes-Hicks, L. Credoro,
E. Liljequist, A. Grotenfeldt, A. Aall, B. J. H. Ovinck, F.
Pelikan, W. Lutoslawski, J. Kolubowskij, L. Racz, J. Lindsay,
Th. Boreas, G. C. Cell. Edited by T. K. Oesterreich. Svo, pp.
xi. xxxix. 431. Friedrich Ueberwegs Grundriss der Geschichte
der Philosophie (Teil 5) : Berlin 1928. [26 h 27]
[With bibUographies.]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 231
Philosophy of John Dewey, The. Selected and edited by J. Ratner.
8vo, pp. 560. London [1928]. [26 i £5]
Piobb (P. v.), Le Secret de Nostradamus et de ses celebres proph^ties
du XVIe siecle. 8vo, pp. 223, 2 facsimiles and 23 diagrams.
Paris 1927. [17 h 19]
Pitt (St. George Lane-Fox), Free Will and Destiny. With Open
Letter on the International Moral Education Congress and
League of Nations by Sir Frederick Pollock, and Appendix by
Frederick J. Gould. 8vo, pp. xix. 100. London 1920. [26h34]
Pixley (Olive C. B.), Listening In : a Record of a Singular Experience.
12mo, pp. 48. [On cover : Fourth edition.] [London 1929.]
[RS 17 (6)]
Playfair (Ernest), Translation of Hartenberg (P.), Treatment of
Nexirasthenia. [10 d 20]
Pocci (Franz), Editor of Kerner (J.), Justinus Kerner imd sehi
Miinchener Freimdeskreis. [8 d 14]
PoUteyan (J,), The Tomb and Life Beyond in the Light of Bible
Lands. 8vo, pp. 66. London 1928. [22 g 5]
Pollock (Sir Frederick), Open Letter on the International Moral
Education Congress and League of Nations, in Pitt (St. G. L.-F.),
Free Will and Destiny. [26 h 34]
Porter (Frank Chamberlin), Paul's Belief in Life after Death, in
Religion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Poston (Adele), Psychiatric Nursing, in Henry (G. W.), Essentials of
Psychiatry. [10 d 21]
Potter (J. W.), The Coming Again of Northchffe. 8vo, pp. 39.
London 1926. [24 e 5]
The " Coimsellor " Circle of the Society of Communion.
" Formed to study and make known the findings of Psychical
Research as loyal servants of our Divine Lord, Jesus Christ."
Concerning nearly 300 Sittings in one Circle. With full instruc-
tions for the conduct of similar Circles. 8vo, pp. 128. London
1926. [24 h 26]
From Beyond the Clouds. A Year with Comisellor. Being
Verbatim Records of the Commtuiications received from Various
Spirit-communicators at the " Coimsellor " Circle of the Society
of Communion. Recorded and set forth as nearly as possible as
spoken. 8vo, pp. 449. London 1927. [24 h 27]
Pratt (H. Burford), Editor of Blavatsky (H. P.), Fragments. [7 c 31]
[Prince ( W. F.)], Noted Witnesses for Psychic Occurrences. Incidents
and Biographical Data with Occasional Comments. Compiled
by the Research Officer of the Boston Society for Psychic
232 Society for Psychical Research [part
Prince (W. F.)—
Research. 8vo, pp. 336. Boston Society for Psychic Research :
Boston, May 1928. [3 f 4]
[Journ. xxiv. 400.]
Supplementary Material in Allison (L. W.), Leonard and
Soule Experiments. [3 f 5]
Psycho-analysis and the War Neuroses. 8vo, pp. v. 69. The Inter-
national Psycho -analytical Library (no. 2) : London, Vieima,
New York 1921. [10 h 2]
[Contents : S. Freud, Introduction ; S. Ferenczi, K. Abraham
and E. Simmel, Symposium ; E. Jones, War Shock and Freud's
Theori/ of the Neuroses.']
Psychology and the Sciences. Edited by W. Brown. 8vo, pp. viii.
184. London 1924. [9 f 5]
[Contents : J. S. Haldane, Psychology and Biology ; R. R.
Marett, Psychology atid Afithropology ; F. C. S. Schiller, Psycho-
logy and Logic ; L. P. Jacks, Psychology and Ethics ; A. E. J.
Rawlinson, Psychology and Theology ; M. W. Keatinge, Psycho-
logy and Education ; W. Brown, Psychology and Medicine ; T. W.
Mitchell, Psychology and Psychical Research.']
Putnam (James J.), Addresses on Psycho-analysis. Preface by S.
Freud. Obituary by E. Jones. 8vo, pp. ix. 470, portrait.
International Psycho-analytical Library (no. 1) : London,
Vienna, New York 1921. [10 h 1]
[With a bibliography of the author.]
Ricz (L.), Collaborator in Philosophic des Auslandes, Die. [26 h 27]
Rand (Benjamin), Editor of Classical Psychologists, The. [9 d 27]
Ratner (Joseph), Editor of Philosophy of John Dewey, The. [26 25]
Rawlinson (A. E. J.), Psychology and Theology, in Psychology and
the Sciences. [9 f 5]
Read (Carveth), Man and his Superstitions. 8vo, pp. xvi. 278.
Second edition [of part of The Origin of Man and his Supersti-
tions]. Cambridge 1925. [22 a 24]
Philosophy of Nature, in Contemporary British Philosophy,
First Series. [25 f 18]
Redonnel (Paul), Introduction to Charcornac (P.), filiphas Levi.
[8 d 13]
Religion and the Future Life. The Development of the Belief in Life
after Death. By Authorities in the History of Religions. Edited
by E. H. Sneath. 8vo, pp. 338. London [1922]. [22 g 6]
[Containing : F. Boas, The Idea of the Future Life among
Primitive Tribes ; J. H. Breasted, Ancient Egyptian Ideas of
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 233
the Life Hereafter ; E. W. Hopkins, Immortality in India ; M.
Jastrow, I?nmortality among the Babylonians and Assyrians ;
A. V. W. Jackson, Tlie Ancient Persian Doctrine of a Future
Life ; L. B. Paton, Immortality in the Hebrew Religion ; A.
Fairbanks, Immortality in Greek Eeligion ; B. W. Bacon,
Immortality in the Synoptic Gospels ; F. C. Porter, PauVs Belief
in Life after Death ; B. W. Bacon, Immortality in the Fourth
Gospel ; D. B. MacDonald, Immortality in Mohammedanism ;
E. H. Sneath, Life after Death.']
Eemmers (John Henry), Is Death the End ? 8vo, pp. 199. Dayton
1928. [24 e 6]
Kesie (Comte de), Histoire et Traite des Sciences Occviltes, ou Examen
des croyances populaires sur les etres siimaturels, la magie, la
sorcellerie, la divination, etc., depuis le commencement du
monde jusqu'a nos jours. 8vo, pp. xxiv. 642+iii. 694, 2 vols.
Paris 1857. [21 b 27-28]
[With an inscription by the author.]
Eibet (J.), La Mystique Divine distinguee des contrefagons dia-
boUques et des analogies humaines. Les phenomenes mystiques.
La contemplation. [Vol. ii : les phenomenes distincts de la
contemplation ; vol. iii : les causes des phenomenes mystiques.
Les contrefagons diaboliques ; vol. iv : les analogies himriaines.]
8vo, pp. X. 456 +iii. 700 +iii. 472 +vi. 414, 4 vols. New edition.
Paris 1895-1903. [22 b 23-26]
Eichardson ( Mark W. ) ,
Dudley ( E . E . )
, Bird (J. M.) and Eichardson ( J.L. )
,
The Thumbprint and Cross-Correspondence Experiments made
with the Mediiim Margery during 1927 and 1928. 8vo, pp. 151,
72 diagrams and ill. [6 h 9]
[Offprint from Psychic Research (New York, Januarj^-
December 1928), xxii.]
Eichet (C), Preface to Schrenck-Notzing (Baron A. von), Los Feno-
menos de la Medivmanidad. [6 h 7]
Les deux Metapsychiques, in Institut Metapsychique Inter-
national, Les Conferences en 1926. [6 i]
[On the titlepage this paper is entitled Les phenomenes de la
metapsychique .
]
Les Phenomenes de la metapsychique. See Eichet (C), Les
deux metapsychiques.
Traite de Metapsychique. 8vo, pp. v. ix. 847. Second
edition reset (fourth [on cover : sixth] thousand. Paris 1923.
[4 d 17]
Eickman (John), Editor of Ferenczi (S.), Further Contributions to
the Theory and Technique of Psycho-analysis. [10 h 11]
Index Psychoanalyticiis 1893-1926. Being an Author's
Index of Papers on Psycho-analysis. 8vo, pp. 276. The Inter-
national Psycho-analytical Library (no. 14) : London 1928.
[10 h 14]
234 /Society for Psychical Research [part
Rignano (Eugenio), Problemes de Psychologie et de Morale. 8vo,
pp. viii. 279. Bibliotheque de philosophie contemporaine : Paris
1928. [9 g 5]
Rio (Armand), Postes d'fimissions et de Receptions T^lepathiques.
8vo, pp. 73-77, 4 diagrams. [RTC 6 (6)]
[An interview with Rene Warcollier. Part of Lectures pour
Tons (Paris, February 1928).]
Rivers (W. H. R.), Mind and Medicine. 8vo, pp. 23. Second edition.
Mancliester 1920. [RPIO (7)]
Robinson (Daniel Sommer), Illustrations of the Methods of Reason-
ing : a Source Book in Logic and Scientific Method. 8vo, pp.
xih. 346. New York, London 1927. [26 i 16]
[With bibliographies.]
Robinson (James Harvey), The Mind in the Making. Introduction by
H. G. Wells. 8vo, pp. 247. [Second] impression of new and
revised edition. London 1924. [9 f 7]
Rothe (Georg), Die Wiinschel-Rute. Historisch-theoretische Studie.
8vo, pp. viii. 118. Jena 1910. [6 g 48]
Rothwell (Fred), Translation of [Encausse (F.)], What is Occultism ?
[21 c 25]
Rouhier (A.), Les plantes divinatoires, in. Institut Metapsychique
International, Les Conferences en 1926. [6 i]
Rows (R. G.) and Orr (D.), Translation of Lugaro (E.), Modern
Problems in Psychiatry. [10 d 23]
Ruckmick (Christian A.), Editor of University of Iowa Studies in
Psychology, no. XI. [25 a]
Ruggiero (Guido de), Modern Philosophy. Translated by A. H.
Hannay and R. G. Collingwood. 8vo, pp. 402. London 1921.
[With a bibhography.] [25 f 4]
Russell (Bertrand), The Analysis of Mind. 8vo, pp. 310. [Third]
impression. Library of Philosophy : London 1924. [27 f 13]
Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy. 8vo, pp. viii.
208. [Second] impression of second edition. Library of Philo-
sophy : London 1924. [27 f 10]
Logical Atomism, in Contemporary British Philosophy, First
Series. [25 f 18]
Mysticism and Logic and other essays. 8vo, vii. 234. Fifth
impression. London 1925. [26 i 13]
Our Knowledge of the External World as a Field for Scientific
Method in Philosophy. 8vo, pp. 251. [Second edition.] London
1926. [25 h h7]
•
An Outline of Philosophy. 8vo, pp. vi. 317. London 1927.
[26 i 24]
113] Supplementary lAbrary Catalogue, 1928-1929 235
Rutot (A.), Le Cycle vital selon la Theorie Energetique de A. Rutot
et M. Schaerer. 8vo, pp. 16. BruxeUes 1928. [RAH 5 (11)]
Mediumnite Metagnomique. Bvo, pp. 11. BruxeUes 1928.
[RAH 5 (12)]
Spiritisme, Metapsychisme, Energetisme, Neo-VitaUsme. 8vo,
pp. 23. BruxeUes 1928. [RAH 5 (13)]
mid Schaerer (M.), Une Conception Energetique de I'Ame.
8vo, pp. 10. BruxeUes 1927. [RAH 5 (10)]
Les Deux grands facteurs de I'existence et de revolu-
tion du monde. Bvo, pp. 40. BruxeUes 1929. [RAH 5 (14)]
La Formation de la Matiere minerale. Cohesion,
Gravitation universeUe, Affinite, Catalyse. 8vo, pp. 19. Brux-
eUes 1927. [RAH 5 (7)]
Formation et Developpement de la Matiere organique.
Bvo, pp. 20. BruxeUes 1927. [RAH 5 (8)]
L'Origine et I'Evolution du Psychisme. 8vo, pp. 18.
BruxeUes 1927. [RAH 5 (9)]
Ruyssen (Th.), Collaborator in Philosophic des Auslandes, Die
[26 h 27]
Sabatier (Auguste), OutUnes of a PhUosophy of Religion based on
Psychology and History. Authorised Translation by T. A.
Seed. Bvo, pp. xix. 348. Third edition. London 1909.
[25 hh 1]
Saint-Lague (A.), L'espace a-t-il quatre dimensions ? in Institut
Metapsychique International, Les Conferences en 1926. [6 i]
Salmon (Thomas W.), Introduction to Henry (G. W.), Essentials of
Psychiatry. [10 d 21]
Mind and Medicine. 4to, pp. 33. New York 1924. [10 e 9]
Sanborn (Herbert C), Translation of Lipps (T.), Psychological Studies.
[9 i 12]
Santoliquido (Rocco), La Biologie et la Metapsychique. Bvo, pp. 19.
fitampes 1928. [RPR 12 (6)]
Satow (Louis), Hypnotism and Suggestion. Translated by B. MiaU.
8vo, pp. 240. London 1923. [15 h 11]
Saudek (Robert), The Psychology of Handwriting. Bvo, pp. xiii. 288,
with a separate supplement of pp. 7 and 48 plates of facsimiles.
London 1925. [17 i 4]
Schaerer (Maurice) and Rutot (A.), Une Conception Energetique de
I'Ame. Bvo, pp. 10. BruxeUes 1927. [RAH 5 (10)]
Les Deux grands facteurs de I'existence et de I'evohi-
tion du monde. 8vo, pp. 40. BruxeUes 1929. [RAH 5 (14)]
236 Society for Psychical Research [part
Schaerer (Maurice) and Rutot (A.)
—
La Formation de la Matiere minerale. Cohesion,
Gravitation imiverselle, Affinite, Catalyse. 8vo, pp. 19. Briix-
elles 1927. [RAH 5 (7)]
Formation et Developpement de la Matiere organique.
8vo, pp. 20. Bruxelles 1927. [RAH 5 (8)]
L'Origine et I'Evolution du Psychisme. 8vo, pp. 18.
Bruxelles 1927. [RAH 5 (9)]
Scheltema (S. P.), Over het Voorgevoel bij den Mensch, in Wakenden
Toestand, Slaap, Droom, Magnetischen Toestand, in Terugkeer
der Geestvermogens bij Krankzinnigen kort voor den Dood, en
over het Voorgevoel bij het Dier. 8vo, pp. vii. 210. Arnhem
1844. [R 11 a 26]
Schiller (F. C. S.), Psychology and Logic, in Psychology and the
Sciences. [9 f 5]
The Truth about Psychical Research. 8vo, pp. 54-66.
[RPR 12 (3)]
[Part of The Nineteenth Century (London, July 1927), cii.]
Why Humanism ? in Contemporary British Philosophy, First
Series. [25 f 18]
Schneider (Rudi), [Collection of press-cuttings relating to this
medium]. 4to. Various places 1924-1929. [R 14 h 3]
Schole (Heinrich), Okkultismus und Wissenschaft. Kritik des
okkultistischen Forschens und Denkens. 8vo, pp. 92. Gottingen
1929. [5 e 31]
[Journ. XXV. 96.]
Schrenck-Notzing (Baron Albert von). Editor of Chowrin (A. N.),
Experimentelle Untersuchmigen. [RTC 6 (2)]
Translation of Geley (G.), Materiahsations-Experimente.
[5 £21]
,Diesog. supranormale Physiologic. [RPR 12(1)]
Un Cas de Phenomenes paraphysiques produits volontaire-
ment a I'etat de veille. Rapport au III Congres International
des Recherches Psychiques a Paris. 8vo, pp. [4]. [Paris 1927.]
[RPR 12 (8)]
Un Clairvoyant [Bert Reese]. 12mo, pp. 10. Paris 1913.
[RTC 6(1)]
— De la Suggestion en medecine legale. 8vo, pp. 15.
[RHy 14 (10)]
[Offprint from the Archives d'Anthropologie Criminelle (Paris,
15 November 1903), n.s. ii.]
L'Exp6rience de la Cage du Medium Lucia Sordi, 4to, pp. 7,
1 ill. [RT3(19)]
[Offprint from the Annates des Sciences psychiqties (Paris, 1,
16 August 1911).]
113] Supplementari/ Libmrij Catalogue, 1928-1929 237
Schrenck-Notzing (Baron Albert von)
—
Los Fenomenos de la Mediumnidad. (Die physikalischen
Phenomene [sic] des Mediumismus.) Prefaces by A. A. Pereira
and C. Richet. 8vo, pp. xvi. 363, 64 ill. Barcelona 1928. [6 h 7]
— Die neuere Okkultismusforschung im Lichte der Gegner, in
Geley (G.), Materialisations-Experimente. [5 f 21]
Die Phanomene des Mediums Linda Gazerra. 8vo, pp. 41,
13 ill. Leipzig [1912]. [RPR 12 (7)]
[Offprint from Psychische Studien (Leipzig 1912), xxxix.]
La Querelle des Phenomenes de Materialisation et quelques
documents s'y referant. 4to, pp. 31, 17 ill. Paris 1914.
[RT 3 (20)]
Therapeutic Suggestion in Psychopathia Sexualis (Patho-
logical Manifestations of the Sexual Sense), with especial refer-
ence to contrary Sexual Instinct. Authorised translation by
C. G. Chaddock. 8vo, pp. xix. 320. Philadelphia, London 1895.
[16g 15]
— Die Traumtanzerin Magdeleine G. Eine psychologische Studie
iiber Hypnose imd dramatische Kunst. Unter Mitwirkimg [von]
F. E. O. Schultze. 8vo, pp. vii. 176. Stuttgart 1904. [16 i 14]
Uber ein sexuelles Attentat auf eine Hypnotisierte. 8vo, pp.
139-150. [RHy 14 (8)]
[Offprint from the Archiv fiir Kriminalanthropologie und
Kriminalistik (Leipzig 1911), xliii.]
Schultze (F. E. Otto), Collaborator in Schrenck-Notzing (Freiherr A.
von), Die Traumtanzerin Magdeleine G. [16 i 14]
Schwab (F.), Teleplasma und Telekinese. Ergebnisse meiner zwei-
jahrigen Experimentalsitzungen mit dem Berliner Medium
Maria Vollhart. 8vo, pp. 109. 113-116, 54 ill. Berlin 1923.
[5 g 16]
\Journ. xxi. 108. Pages 113-116 and a slip were inserted
between printing and binding, and a further two -page leaflet
was added loose.]
Scott (C. A. Dawson), From Four Wlio Are Dead : H. F. N. Scott,
H. D. Lowry, George Dawson, W. T. Stead. Messages to C. A. D.
Scott. With an introduction by May Sinclair. 8vo, pp. 192,
London 1926. [24 e 4]
Scott (H. von E.) and Bland (C. C. S.), Translation of Caesarius of
Heisterbach, The Dialogue on Miracles. [22 g 10-11]
Scott (W. D. Robson-), Translation of Freud (S.), The Future of an
Illusion. [10 h 15]
Scully (Vincent), Preface to Everett (E. E.), Finding a Soul. [17 e 28]
Seabrook (W. B.), The Magic Island. Illustrated with Drawings by
Alexander King and Photographs bv the Author. 8vo, pp. 320,
46 ill. London, Bombay, Sydney 'l929. [22 g 4]
[Jo%irn. XXV. 95.]
238 Society for Psychical Research [part
Seashore (C. E.), Note in University of Iowa Studies in Psychology,
no. XI. [25 a]
Sedlak (Francis), Pure Thought and the Riddle of the Universe.
Volume I. Creation of Heaven and Earth. 8vo, pp. xv. 375.
London [1919]. [26 i 23]
Seed (T. A.), Authorised translation of Sabatier (A.), Outlines of a
Philosophy of Religion. [25 h 1]
Selbie {W. R.), The Psychology of ReUgion. 8vo, pp. xii. 310.
Corrected [second] impression. Oxford Handbooks of Theology
[vol. i] : Oxford 1926. [9 g 3]
Semon (Richard), The Mneme. [Translation by L. Simon.] 8vo, pp.
304. London 1921. [9 g 13]
[With a bibliography.]
Mnemic Psychology. Translation by B. Duffy. Introduction
by V. Lee. Bvo, pp. 344. London 1923. [9 g 16]
Sethe (Kurt) a7id Gardiner (A. H.), Editors of Egyptian Letters to the
Dead. [R 20 5]
Sewall (May Wright), Neither Dead nor Sleeping. Introduction by
B. Tarkington. 8vo, pp. [xliii] 320. London 1921. [24 c 37]
Sharpe (Ella), Vocation, in Social Aspects of Psychoanalysis. [10 g II]
Rosenbusch (Hans), Der Okkultismus als Beobachtungswissenschaft.
Kritische Betrachtungen zu den Berichten iiber leibliche und
seelische Femwirkung (Telekinese, Materialisation, Prophetie,
Telepathie, HellsehenT. 8vo, pp. 80, II ill. [RPR 12 (14)]
[Offprint from Die neue Volkshochschule (1928).]
Sheppard (H. R. L.), In the Hands of Love, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 16]
Sidgwick (Henry), [A Questiomiaire issued in coimection with the
Census of Hallucinations]. 4to, pp. 4. [Cambridge 1891.]
[RF 38]
Simmel (Ernest), Contributor io Psycho-analysis and the War Neuroses.
[10 h 2]
[Simon (Louis)], Translation of Semon (R.), The Mneme. [9 g 13]
Simpson (James Y.), Man and the Attainment of Immortality. 8vo,
pp. xiv. 342, 32 diagrams and ill. Third edition. London 1923.
[17 g 6]
Sinclair (May), Introduction to Scott (C. A. D.), From Four Who Are
Dead. [24 e 4]
Slesser (Henry H.), The Nature of Being: an Essay in Ontology.
8vo, pp. 224. London 1919. [26 i 22]
113] Supplementary Library Catalogue, 1928-1929 239
Sloan (Louise L.), The Effect of Intensity of Light, State of Adapta-
tion of the Eye, and Size of Photometric Field on the Visibihty
Curve. A Study of the Purkinje Plienomenon. 8vo, pp. v. 87,
34 diagrams. Psychological Monographs (xxxviii. 1 : 173) :
Princeton and Albany 1928. [25 a]
[With a bibliography.]
Smedley (Alfred), Some Reminiscences by Alfred Smedley, Belper.
Miss Wood in Derbysliire. A Series of Experimental Seances
Demonstrating the Fact that Spirits can Appear in the Physical
Form, reported by W. P. Adshead, Belper. Also An Account
of Miss Wood's Mediumship, by the late T. P. Barkas. 8vo, pp.
143, 17 portraits and diagrams. London 1900. [23 f 34]
Smedt (Carolus de) and Backer (J. de). Editors of Acta Sanctorum
Hiberniae. [R 21 i 18]
Smith (E. M.), The Investigation of Mind in Animals. 8vo, pp. xii.
195, 10 diagrams and ill. Second edition. Cambridge 1923.
[With a bibhography.] [3 a 37]
Smith (Goldwin), Guesses at the Riddle of Existence and other
Essays on Kindred Subjects. 8vo, pp. ix. 244. New York 1897.
[Journ. viii. 163.] [17 g 14]
Smith (J. A.), Philosophy as the Development of the Notion and
ReaUty of Self-Consciousness, in Contemporary British Philo-
sophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
Smith (T. Waddelow), An Introduction to the Mind in Health and
Disease for Students and General Practitioners interested in
Mental Work. Svo, pp. viii. 235, 7 coloiured plates. London
1925. [9 g 8]
Sneath (E. Hershey), Editor of Religion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Life after Death, in Religion and the Future Life. [22 g 6]
Social Aspects of Psycho-analysis. Edited by Ernest Jones. 8vo,
pp. V. 240. [London] 1924. [10 g 11]
[Containing : E. Jones, The Relationship of Psycho-analysis
to Sociology ; J. Glover, Man the Individiial ; J. C. Fliigel, The
Family ; M. D. Eder, Politics ; B. Low, Ediication ; E. Sharpe,
Vocation .']
Solly (J. Raymond), Free Will and Determinism. An Old Controversy
and its Present Position. 8vo, pp. 27, London 1922.
[RPh 5 (4)]
Solomon (Joseph), Bergson. 8vo, pp. 128. Fourth impression.
Philosophies Ancient and Modern : London, Bombay, Sydney
1922. [8 c 16]
Sorley ( W. R.), Value and Reahty, in Contemporary British Philosophy,
Second Series. [25 f 19]
Southwark (Lady), The Parting will not be Long, in Where are the
Dead? [17 f 15]
240 Society for Psychical Research [part
Spencer (Herbert), The Principles of Psychology. 8vo, pp. xiv. 640
+ viii. 762, 2 vols. Fourth edition (sixth thousand). London
1899. [9 h 7-8]
Spender (J A.), The Eternal Vision, in Where are the Dead ? [17 f 15]
Spiritualism "Exposed." 8vo, pp. 15. [Sheffield 1928.] [RS 17 (2)]
[Evidence for spiritualism.]
Spooner (H. J.), My Evidence for Survival, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
[Sprenger (Jacob) and Institoris (H.)], Malleus Maleficarvun. Trans-
lated, with an Introduction, Bibliography and Notes, by Mon-
tague Summers. 4to, pp. xlv. 278, portrait. [London] 1928.
[No. 31 of an edition of 1275 copies.] [R 21 h 20]
Spurr (Frederic C), Death and the Life Beyond in the Light of
Modern Religious Thought and Experience. 8vo, pp. vii. 9-219.
New and enlarged edition, entirely re-written. London 1926.
[IV g 7]
Starch (Daniel) and Miles (W. R.), Editors oj University of Iowa
Studies in Psychology, no. XII. [25 a]
Steudel (Adolph), Der Spiritismus vor dem Richterstuhle des philo-
sophischen Verstandes. 8vo, pp. iii. 80. Stuttgart 1886.
[RS 18 (1)]
Stobart (St. Clair), Torchbearers of Spiritualism. 8vo, pp. 231, 1 ill.
London 1925. [24 d 28]
[With a bibliography.]
Stoddart (Jane T.), The Case against Spiritualism. 8vo, pp. 172-
London, New York, Toronto 1929. [22 b 24]
Stout (G. F.), Analytic Psychology. 8vo, pp. xv. 289 + v. 314. 2 vols.
Fifth impression. London 1928. [27 f 11-12]
The Groimdwork of Psychology. Revised by R. H. Thouless.
8vo, pp. X. 227. Second edition. London 1927. [9 f 15]
A Manual of Psychology. 8vo, pp. xvii. 769. Third edition
(tenth impression). London 1924. [9 f 6]
Strachey (Alix) and Bryan (D.), Translation of Abraham (F.), Selected
Papers. [10 h 13]
Strachey (James), Translation of Freud (S.), An Autobiographical
Study. [10 g 9]
Stratton (George Malcolm), Psychology of the Religious Life. 8vo,
pp. xii. 376. [Second] impression : London 1918. [27 f 9]
Sudre (Rene), Les personnifications metapsychiques, in Institut
Metapsychique International, Les Conferences en 1926. [6 i]
Sully (James), The Htmian Mind : a Text-Book of Psychology. 8vo,
pp. xvii. 501 +xii. 392, 2 vols. London 1892. [9 a 22-23]
[With bibliographies.]
113] Supplementary Lihrarij Catalogue, 1928-1929 241
Summers (Montague), Translation and edition of [Sprenger (J.) and
Institoris (H.), Malleus Maleficarmn. [R 21 h 20j
The Discovery of Witches. A Study of IMaster Matthew
Hopkins, commonly call'd Witch Finder General, together with
a Reprint of the Discovery of Witches [by M. Hopkins] from
the rare original of 1647. 8vo, pp. 64, 2 facsimiles. Cayme
Press Pamphlet (no. 7) : London 1928. [2l'f 6]
Sunday Chronicle, [Committee of Investigation into Spiritualism].
[A collection of press-cuttings relating thereto.] 4to. [London
1926-1927.] [R14h2]
Suringar (J. Valckenier), Verschijnselen van Gedaehten-Overdracht
langs anderen dan gewoon zintuigelijken weg, naar aanleidmg
van gebeurtenissen in Nederland. Beschrijving en overdenking.
8vo, pp. 420, 52 diagrams and ill. Wageningen [1928 ?]. [6 g 26]
[Joiirn. XXV. 95.]
Suttie (Jane Isabel), Authorised translation of Ferenezi (S.), Further
Contributions to the Theorv and Technique of Psycho-analysis.
[10 h 11]
Tabellen zur statistischen Aufzeichnung der Arbeiten mit der Wiin-
schelrute auf Wasser. 8vo, pp. 59-62. [6 i 32 (12)]
[Part of Schriften des Verhands zur Ktdrunq der Wiinschelruten-
frage (Stuttgart 1929), Heft 12.]
Tansley (A. G.), The New Psychology and its Relation to Life. 8vo,
pp. 316, 10 diagrams. Tenth impression. London 1925.
[9 g 15]
Tarkington (Booth), Introduction to Sewall (M. W.), Neither Dead
nor Sleeping. [24 c 37]
Taylor (A. E.), The Freedom of Man, in Contemporary British Philo-
sophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
Taylor (W. S.), Morton Prince and Abnormal Psychology. 8vo, pp.
xi. 137, portrait. New York and London 1928. " [8 d 15]
[With a bibliography.]
Teachings of Osiris, The. Set clown in the House of El Eros-El Arra,
they being male-female, born according to the laws governing
the Dhuman-Adamic race, this being their fourth incarnation.
[Introduction by Peter Miles.] 8vo, pp. vii. 135. London [1927].
[Automatic writings.] [24 d 39]
Telling (W. H. Maxwell), The Value of Psychical Research to the
Physician. 8vo, pp. 13. [RPR 12 (11)]
[Offprint from the Journal of Mental Science (London, October
1928).]
Temple (Willi'am), Some Implications of Theism, in Contemporary
British Philosophy, First Series. [25 f 18]
Q
242 Society for PsycMml Besearch [part
Tennant (R. F.). Miracle and its Philosophical Presuppositions. 8vo,
pp. V. 103. Cambridge 1925. [26 h 29]
Theosophical Movement, The, 187.5-1925. A History and a Survey.
8vo, pp. xxxii. 705. New York 1925.
'
[7 c 32]
Thomas (Charles Drayton), Life Beyond Death with Evidence.
Introduction by Viscountess Grey of Fallodon. 8vo, pp. vi. 296,
1 ill. London"l928. '
[6 e 25]
Thomas (John F.), Case Studies Bearing upon Survival. 8vo, pp. 150.
Boston Society for Psychic Research : Boston 1929. [3 f 6]
[Journ. XXV. 147.]
Thouless (R. H.), Editor of Stout (G. F.), The Grovmdwork of Psycho-
logy. [9-f 15]
An Introduction to the Psychology of Religion. 8vo, pp.
viii. 286. [Second impression of] second edition. Cambridge
1928. [9 e 26]
Social Psychology : a Text Book for Students of Economics
and of Social Sciences. 8\'o, pp. viii. 376. Second impression.
London 1927. [9 f 16]
Thurston (Herbert), Ghosts that tease. Bvo, pp. 239-250.
[RPR 12 (9)]
[Part of The Month (September 1928), clii.]
Modern Spiritualism. 8vo, pp. 88. The Twelvepenny Series
(no. viii) : London 1928. [24 e 7]
Tillyard (R. J.), E\ idence of Survival of a Human Personality. 8vo,
pp. 243-246, 6 ill. and facsimiles. [RPR 12 (18)]
[Part of Nature. (London, 18 August 1928), cxxii.]
— 8vo, pp. 12, 6 ill. and facsimiles. [RPR 12 (16)]
[An offprint from Nature.]
Tischner (R.), Konnersreuth im Lichte des wissenschaftlichen
Okkultismus. Folio leaf. [RF 42]
[Part of the General-Anzeiger (Stettin, 25 December 1927),
no. 356. Witli an inscription by the author.]
Okkultismus als Wissenschaft. 8vo, pp. 80-89. [RPR 12 ( 10)]
[Part of the Mitteilurigen. des Vereines der Arzte in Steiermark
(Graz, May 1927), Ixiv. With an inscription by the author.]
Das Ratsel von Konnersreuth. Ein neuer Deutimgsversucli.
8vo, pp. 1353-1358. [RAH 5 (5)]
[Part of Das Magazin (Berlin, December 1927). With an
inscription by the author.]
Wahrheit otler Schwindel ? Unbekanntes iiber das Medium
Eleonora Zugim. Folio, pp. 13, 3 portraits. [RF 43]
[Part of the Suddeutsche Sonntagspost (Mimich, 6 March 1927),
no. 10.]
113] Sujjplemenfary Lihmrij Catalogue, 1928 -1929 243
Titchener (Edward Bradford), Translation of Kiilpe (0.), Outlines of
Psychology. [9 g 17]
Translation of Wundt (W.), Principles of Physiological
Psychology. [9 i 1-4]
and Creighton (J. E.), Translation of Wundt (W.), Lectures
on H\iman and Animal Psychology. [9 c 25]
To David's Friends. 8vo, pp. xxiii. 23, 2 portraits. Second edition.
London 1926. [RS 17 (1)]
[Spiritualistic communications.]
Tontolini (G.), La Selection des Vrai. 8vo, pp. xix. 313. Paris 1928.
[On psychical research.] [5 e 30]
Tordai (Vilmos), Asszony, akinek ket en-je van, egy szomnambula
tortenete. K. Linczegh Lujza elbeszelese es Ignath Geza
osszegyiijtott adatai alapjan feldol gozta es sajto ala rendezte
Tordai Vilmos. Preface by .Janos Anka. 8vo, jjp. 164, portrait.
Budapest 1925. [ETC 6 (3)]
[A case of multiple personality accompanied Ijy supernormal
phenomena.]
Townsend (Henry), The Meaning of Heaven, in Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
Travis (Roland C.) a)id Dodge (R.), Experimental Analysis of the
Sensori-Motor Consequences of Passive Oscillation, Rotary and
Rectilinear. 8vo, pp. iv. 96, 34 diagrams. Psychological Mono-
graphs (xxxviii. 3 : 175) : Princeton and Albany 1928. [25 a]
[With a bibliography.]
[Trimble (W. Copeland)], The Imier History of Emiiskillen durmg
the Revolution. 8vo, pp. viii. 126. Enniskillen 1927.
[Spiritualistic communications.] [RS 17 (3)]
Troland (Leonard T.), The My.stery of Mind. 8vo, pp. xi. 253, 22
diagrams and coloured plate. Library of Modern Science :
London 1926. [9 g 9]
Trowbridge (W. R. H.), Cagliostro. 8vo, pp. xv. 312, 4 ills. [Second]
impression. London 1926. [8 c 18]
[With a bibliography.]
Urban (Wilbur Marshall), The Intelligible World : Metaphysics and
Value. 8vo, pp. iv. 479. Library of Philosophy : London, New
York 1929.
'
[25 f 20]
Uren (A. Rudolph), Recent Religious Psychology : a Study in the
Psychology of Religion, being a critical exposition of the methods
and results of representative investigators of the psychological
phenomena of religion. 8vo, pp. xi. 280. Edinburgh 1928.
[9 g 10]
Valentine (P. F.), The Psychology of Personality. 8vo, pp. xiii. 393.
New York, London 1927. [9 f 20]
244 Sociciij for Psychical Research [part
Varendonck (J.), The Psychology of Day-Dreams. Introduction by
S.Freud. 8vo, pp. 367. London 1921. [9 g 14]
[With a bibliography.]
Vivante (Leone), Notes on the Originality of Thought. The Concept
of Internal Necessity : Poetic Thought and Constructive
Thought. Translated by Brodrick-BuUock. 8vo, pp. vii. 227.
London 1927. [26 h 23]
Von Renter (Florizel), Psychical Experiences of a Musician (in Search
of Truth). Foreword by Sir A. C. Doyle. 8vo, pp. 320, facsimile
and 8 portraits and ill. London [1928]. [8 e 12]
Walker (Leslie J.), Theories of Knowledge. Absolutism, Pragmatism,
Realism. Preface by M. Maher. 8vo, pp. xxxix. 705. Second
edition. Stonyhurst Philosophical Series : London 1911.
[26 h 35]
Wallas (Graham), The Art of Thought. 8vo, pp. 320. Second impres-
sion. London 1927. [9 f 17]
Walpole (Hugh), The Little Minds of Men, iu Where are the Dead ?
[17 f 15]
Walsh (William T.), Scientific Spiritual Healing. Foreword by A. S.
Lloyd. 8vo, pp. xii. 179. New York, London, 1926. [17 f 27]
Walther (Gerda), Ludwig Klages und sein Kampf gegen den " Geist."
8vo, pp. 48-90. [RP 10 (13)]
[Offf)rint from the Philosophischer Anzeiger (Bonn 1928), iii.]
Zur innerjDsychischen Struktur der Schizophrenie. 8vo, pjj.
56-85. [RP 10 (9)]
[Offprint from the Zeitschrift fur die gesamte Neurologie imd
Psychiatrie (Berlin 1927), cviii.]
Zur Phanomenologie der Mystik. 8vo, pp. viii. 248. Halle
a. S. 1923. [22 b 19]
[With an inscription by the author.]
Warcollier (Rene), Postes d'l5missions et de Receptions telepathiques.
8vo, pp. 73-77, 4 diagrams. [RTC 6 (6)]
[Reported by A. Rio. Part of Lectures pour tons (Paris,
1 February 1928).]
La Telepathie experimentale, in Institut Metapsychique Inter-
national, Les Conferences en 1926. ^ [6 i]
Ward (James), A Theistic Monadism, in Contemporary British Philo-
sophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
Warren (Howard C), Human Psychology. 8vo, pp. xx. 460, 68
diagrams and ill. Library edition. London [1920]. [9 d 24]
[With bibliographies.]
113] Supjjlementury Library Catalogue, 1928-1920 245
Water Divining. 12mo, pp. 24+2. [Bombay 1925-1928 ?]
[RDo 3 (2)]
[A dowsing prospectus relating to Major C. A. Pogson, with
a leaflet of addenda.]
Waterfinding. 12mo, pp. 6. [Bombay 1923 ?] [RDo 3(1)]
[A dowsing prospectus relating to Major C. A. Pogson.]
Waterhouse (E. S.), Wliat is Eternal if not the Soul ? i>i Where are
the Dead ? [17 f 15]
Waters (R. C), Auto-Suggestion for Mothers. 8vo, pp. 94. The
" New Psychology " Handbooks (no. 8) : London 1924.
[25 b 38]
Watson (John B.), Psychology from the Standpoint of a Behaviorist.
8vo, xvii. 458, 66 diagrams. Third edition revised. Phila-
delphia, London 1929. [9 g 11]
Webb (Clement C. J.), Outline of a Philosophy of Religion, in Con-
temporary British Philosophy, Second Series. [25 f 19]
[Weiss (Harry)], A Magician among the Spirits. 8vo, pp. xxiii. 294,
25 portraits, ill. and diagrams. New York, London 1924. [17 i 3]
[Journ. xxi. 339.]
Weitere Bestatigungen der Materialisations -Phanomene bei dem
Medium Eva C. 4to, pp. 16. [RPR 12 (13)]
[Offprint from the Vbersinnliche Welt (March 1917).]
Welch (Adam C), Hebrew and Apocalyptic Conceptions of Im-
mortality, in Immortality. [26 h 25]
Weld (H. P.), Psychology as Science: its Problems and Points of
View. 8vo, pp. xiii. 297. London 1928. [9 f 3]
[With bibliographies.]
Wells (H. G.), Introduction to Robinson (J. H.), The Mind in the
Making. [9 f 7]
Westaway (F. W.), Scientific Method : its Philosophical Basis and
its Modes of Application. 8vo, jjp. xxiii. 456, 37 diagrams.
Third edition. London 1924. [17 f 19]
Where are the Dead? 8vo, pp. ix. 136. xi. London, Toronto, Mel-
boiu-ne and Sydney 1928. [17 f 15]
[Journ. xxiv. 400. A symposium contributed to by Sir A.
Keith, Sir O. Lodge, A. Bennett, Right Rev. E. A. Knox, G. K.
Chesterton, J. Huxley, H. Tomisend, H. R. L. Sheppard, H.
Behoc, H. Walpole, R. J. Campbell, H. J. Spooner, J. P.
Arendzen, Sir A. C. Doyle, G. H. Birmingham, J. A. Spender,
T. R. Williams, Lady Southwark, R. Blatchford, T. R. Glover,
R. Lynd, E. S. Waterhouse.]
Whitehead (Alfred North), Science and the Modern World. 8vo, pp.
xi. 265. [Fourth] impression. Lowell Lectures, 1925 : Cam-
bridge 1919. [17 g 20]
246 SocieLy for Pai/chical Research [part 113]
Whitehead (Alfred North)—
Symbolism, its Meaning and Effect. 8vo, pp. viii. 104.
Cambridge 1928. [26 h 24]
Whyte (Frederic), The Life of W. T. Stead. 8vo, pp. 345, 5 portraits
and ill. +368, 4 portraits and ill., 2 vols. London 1925.
[8 f 15-16]
Widgery (Alban G.), Immortality and other Essays. 8vo, pp. vii.
223. The Gaekwad Studies in Religion and Philosophy (no. xv)
:
Baroda 1919. [17 g 12]
William of Malmesbury, The Vita Wulfstani of William of Malmes-
bury. To which are added the extant Abridgments of this
Work and the Miracles and Translation of St. Wulfstan. Edited
by R. R. Darlington. 8vo, pp. hi. 204. Royal Historical Society
(vol. xl) : London 1928. [22 g 8]
Williams (T. Rhondda), The Soul demands Eternity, in Where are
the Dead ? [17 f 15]
Wilson (Woodrow), Foreword to Ormond (A. T.), The Philosophy of
Religion. [26 i 10]
Winstedt (R. 0), Shaman, Saiva and Sufi : a Study of the Evolution
of Malay Magic. 8vo, pp. vii. 191. London, Bombay, Sydney
1925. [22 e 23]
Woodward (F. L.), Translation of Manual of a Mystic. [22 b 20]
Woodworth (R. S.), Introduction to Garrett (H. E.), Statistics in
Psychology. [17 f 25]
Wundt (Wilhelm), Lectures on Human and Animal Psychology.
Translated from the Second German edition by J. E. Creighton
and E. B. Titchener. 8vo, pp. xi. 459, 45 diagrams. Fifth
edition. London 1912. [9 c 25]
Principles of Physiological Psychology. Vol. I. Translated
from the Fifth German Edition (1902) by E. B. Titchener. 8vo,
pp. xvi. 347, 105 diagrams. Second edition. London 1910.
[9 i 15]
Yellowlees (Henry), A Manual of Psychotherapy for Practitioners
and Students. 8vo, pp. xv. 247. The Edinburgh Medical
Series : London 1923. [10 e 17]
Yogavachara's Manual, The. See Manual of a Mystic.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 114
MARCH, 1930
SOME THOUGHTS ON D. D. HOME.i
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
It is not by any means the aim of tlie present paper to prove either
that the so-called physical phenomena of spiritualism do not exist
at all or that D. D. Home had no genuine mediumistic power. Such
an aim would be far too ambitious ; besides, such is not precisely
my view. My object is different. It has often been alleged that
there is no evidence that Home—that bulwark, that alpha and
omega of physical spiritualism with whom modern spiritualism must
stand or fall, to use Sir. Podmore's words—-was ever detected in
fraud. I will attempt to show that this supposed immunity from
detection is a fiction and that evidence to the contrary undoubtedly
exists ; I will also insist on some elements of weakness—very serious
elements—inherent in my opinion in the Home evidence. My con-
clusion had better be stated at the outset : the great bulk of D. D.
Home's phenomena must be thrown overboard . A certain residuum,
not easily explicable, will remain. But though I have no ready
explanation to offer with regard to it, it seems to me, I confess,
somewhat vitiated by its association with so many other " mani-
festations " which can be accounted for with so little difficulty, and
whose explanation lies, as a matter of fact, on the surface.
I will begin by referring the reader to my paper in the /ournal for
July 1912 (XV. 274-288) entitled :
" On the alleged Exposure of D.
D. Home in France," in which I reproduced two letters by a Dr.
Barthez, physician to Napoleon Ill's son—the Prince Imperial
—
dated respectively Biarritz, 5th September and 2.5th September, 1857,
and printed in the Revue de Paris (1912, pp. 80-8i). Dr. Barthez's
^ This paper was read at a Conversazione (for Members and Associates only)
on 6th November, 1929.
A
248 Count Perovshy-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
letters have since appeared in book form.^ In the second of these
two letters the following passage occurs : "It will amuse you to
learn that we have at last grasped one of the methods by which
Mr. Hume evokes spirits. As a result the Empress is reduced to
saying that the Himie of to-day is no longer the Hume that he was,
that he has lost his power, and that he tries to replace it by trickery.
The thing is very simple. Mr. Hume wears thin shoes, easy to take
off and put on ; he also has, I believe, cut socks which leave the toes
free. At the appropriate moment he takes of? one of his shoes and
with his foot pulls a dress here, a dress there, rings a bell, knocks
one way and another, and, the thing done, quickly puts his shoe on
again. This has been seen by M. Morio,- who has made of it a fine
record, written and signed, with all the details necessary to establish
the authenticity of his discovery. Hume saw that his secret had been
guessed and I assure you that he cut a pitiful figure . . . The sittings
for the evocation of spirits at once ceased at the castle and we hope
that this undeserving character is put out of currency. Nevertheless
Her Majesty is unable to accept the fact that anybody should have
had the impertinence to make a mockery to such a point, and during
a whole year, of herself and of the Emperor." ^
In Dr. Barthez's letter we had at last in a concrete and authentic
form an extremely vivacious legend connected with D. D. Home's
name which had hitherto obstinately refused to " materialise,"
though cropping up again and again. Hence the very great impor-
tance of this document.
In my above-named paper I arrived inter alia at the following
conclusions :
" (1) The famous legend as to the French exposure of Home has
at last been '
hunted down.' It resolves itself into a real incident
which happened in the course of Home's sittings at Biarritz about
20th September, 1857, and which, there is good reason to believe,
consisted of an attempt at trickery on Home's part. . .
."
" (2) The sort of trickery used was precisely of a kind suggested
to an attentive reader by a certain category of Home's perform-
ances. . . .
" On the whole, a fairly good instance, I thinly, of the partial truth
of the saying :
'
II n'y a fas defumee sans feu.'
" *
It has been objected ^ a projMs of a few words I said about Home
1 La famille Im.periale a St Cloud et a Biarritz (Paris, no date).
^ Baron Morio de Flsle, " Prefect of the Palace," whose name also appears
in the same connection in Comte Fleiiry and L. Sonolet's La Societc du Second
Empire, 1851-1858, pp. 185-186. This coincidence is very significant since the
latter work has nothing to do with the Barthez letter.
3 [The French text is printed in Journal, xv. 281, and in the Appendix to
the present paper. Hon. Ed.]
* Journal, xv. 288. ^ Miss Dallas in Journal (January 1929), xxv. 17.
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 249
and the Biarritz exposure in the Journal for November 1928 (xxiv.
370 n.) that according to a statement of the late Sir William Crookes's
he never detected any trickery or deceit whatever on Home's part,
" nor heard any first hand evidence of such from other persons." ^
Well, the last few words would rather imply in my opinion that the
great scientist probably was acquainted with second-hand evidence
bearing on the subject ; at any rate, there is in the sentence quoted
absolutely nothing disproving such a supposition. And few will, I
think, be disposed to dispute, that cumulative second-hand evidence
may in the end become irresistible.
I have also been reminded of Professor Charles Richet's words :
" Sometimes indeed, as in the case of Dunglas Home, it has had to be
acknowledged that the accusation of fraud was unjustified." ^ I
answer : if M. Richet has in his possession evidence refuting Dr.
Barthez's testimony, it is to be earnestly hoped that he will com-
municate it to our Society at once. If he has not, such a sentence
has about it nothing decisive.
Again, the late Sir W. F. Barrett (and obviously F. W. H. Myers)
failed, I am told, to obtain adequate testimony as to the detection
of Home. Now what does this prove ? How can such a circumstance
affect the Barfchez evidence which obviously remained unknown to
these two gentleman ? It affects it just as little as the fact of A, B
and C not having seen a certain act performed by E proves—or may
prove—nothing against the evidence of D who did see it.
It has also been pointed out that the undoubted fact of D. D.
Home having entertained relations with the Empress of the French
several years after the exposure, gives us reason to think that the
story of the detection may have been a calumny. To all those who
know how easily—especially in the domain of spiritualism—persons
anxious to believe are apt to forget such unpleasant incidents and
indeed all evidence unpalatable to them, this circumstance proves
little or nothing.
The following two letters bear on the opinion which the late
Empress Eugenie apparently entertained of the Biarritz episode at
the end of her life. Both are addressed to myself and are now
printed for the first time :
" Dear Sir, " 9th March, 1929.
" I have only to-day had your letter of the 9th of February, which
has been following me. Here is the information you ask for : . . .
" This passage ^ was published by me in the Revue de France for
January 1924. Some time afterwards Dicksoim, who was giving
lectures against spiritualism in which he told, en passant, the story
^ Proceedings, vi. 99. ^ Quoted by Miss Dallas, loc. cit.
^ An extract from Dr. Barthez's letter of 25th September, 1857, {Journal,
XV. 287 ; see also above).
250 Count Perovshy-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
of Home at Biarritz, told me that lie had been approached, in the
Salle de Geographic on the conclusion of one of his lectures, by M.
Morio de 1' Isle j^/s, who confirmed that his father had often told him
this anecdote.
" For my part I called, in February, on Prince Roland Bonaparte
and took him the passage from the letters of Dr. Barthez, begging
him, since he was soon to see H.M. the Empress Eugenie at Cap
Martin, to ask her if these things had really happened as de-
scribed.
" Some weeks after I again saw the Prince, who told m^e textually :
'
The Empress remembers the things very well and confirms all the
details. She no longer remembers who turned up the gas ; but
Home was undoubtedly in the scandalous attitude described by
Barthez.' I therefore published this new testimony in my book Ou
en est la Metavst/chique ? . . .
-r, tt ' » i
^ ^ ^ " (Signed) Paul Heuze. ^
"
.
" 12. Ill 29
"... I certify that
:
" (1) On the 1st of May, 1919, Monsieur G., French Consul, called
on me at the Societes Savantes with his friend M. Morio, son of the
one who exposed Home on the 5th of September, 1857, at Biarritz.
M. Morio described to me how his father had unmasked Home.
" (2) On the 7th of November, 1920, Prince Roland Bonaparte
came himself to the Societe de Geographic, of which he was Presi-
dent, to confirm the authenticity of the Biarritz sitting, which had
been several times described to him by the Empress Eugenie.
" The Prince is dead, but his daughter. Princess George of
Greece, who was au courant, is here to certify the words of her
father . . .
" (Signed) Prof. Dicksonn, Cte. de St. Genois."
We are not bound to regard either M. Paul Heuze as infallible or
Professor " Dicksonn—a conjurer—as absolutely impartial. But
the statements by the late Prince Roland Bonaparte they refer to
are precise and categorical. We have no right to attribute to them
deliberate lying, nor do I see any reason whey we should attach to
their assertions less importance than to such a passage as appears in
my paper of 1912 {Journal, xv. 283) :
" Mr Feilding having made
inquiries, heard from a friend of his in the Empress's entourage that
Her Majesty had lately expressed, in conversation on the subject,
her firm belief in the genuineness of Home's performances, and had
1 M. Heuze is a well-lmown adversary and exposer of fakirs and mediums.
He is not however irrevocably hostile (a circumstance to be borne in mind)
to all supernormal phenomena. [The French text of this letter and of the one
following is printed in the Appendix. Hon. Ed.]
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 251
said that, in her opinion, the stories of a gloved foot under the table
were false." I note the apparent discrepancy and pass on.
Here is another testimony on the Biarritz incident. The writer
is the late Professor Cyon of the Imperial Medical Academy in Saint
Petersburg. The sitting (Home's) to which he refers at the begin-
ning, took place in the presence of some Russian savants (also of
Aksakov) and was a perfect blank :
" Immediately after the publication of my article on the sitting
of 10th March, 1871, General Comte Fleury, one time Ambassador at
Petersburg, communicated to me through Dr. Pelikan the details of
a sitting at Compiegne where he had succeeded in catching Home in
the act. At this sitting were present the Emperor, the Empress,
Princess Metternich, and a few other members of the Com't. Round
the table Home had on his left the Empress Eugenie, on whose left
sat Napoleon HI. Count Fleury, seated facing Home, was struck by
the persistence with which the latter directed the conversation in
such a way that the Empress was obliged to turn continually towards
the Emperor to put questions to him.
" Suspecting some conjuring trick. General Fleury asked per-
mission to withdraw ; he left by the door at the right of the table,
but returned unobserved by another door behind Home. He then
saw the latter open the sole of his right shoe, leave his naked foot
some time on the marble floor, then suddenly with a rapid and
extraordinarily agile movement, touch with his toes the hand of the
Empress, who started, crying, ' The hand of a dead child has touched
me !
'
General Fleury came forward and described what he had
seen. The following day Home was embarked at Calais, conducted
by two agents ; the order was to keep the incident secret." ^
Again, I do not by any means regard Professor Cyon as either
infallible or impartial. On the contrary. And the inaccuracies are
numerous and obvious. But the main facts are the same : (a) the
sitting takes place at Napoleon Hi's Court ;
(b) the process of the
alleged fraud is more or less identical. That, writing in 1910 or 1909
Professor Cyon should have forgotten many details, written " Com-
piegne " for " Biarritz " (both imperial residences), etc., the facts
having been communicated to him at second-hand nearly forty years
before, is surely only natural. To me, hov^^ever. Dr. Barthez's
evidence suffices. I only wish to draw attention to the fact that it
is confirmed from several other sources which are absolutely and
entirely independent.
Was it at first hand 1 We do not know. I incline at first to think
not, though his daughter, Mme. Pouquet says {Journal, xv. 282) :
" He had witnessed it himself." But let us here make what the
1 Dr. E. Cyon, Dieu et Science (Paris 1910), p. 255. [The French text of this
extract is printed in the Appendix. Hon. Ed.]
252 Count Perovshy-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
Germans call a Seitensprung and reason somewhat as follows : X,
let us suppose, lias great luck at cards, and many people suspect
him of cheating. There is a rumour that he was once caught red-
handed ; this rumour varies so far as dates and places are concerned,
but it is a very persistent one. It does not. vary—or varies little—as
to the method of cheating. Investigators try to find its origin but
fail. Then suddenly a letter turns up, Avritten by a gentleman, Y,
who may or may not have been present himself at the detection,
but who certainly had every possibility of learning exactly what had
happened. The letter is written at the time of the exposure, in the
town where the incident took place, and the fraudulent method
therein mentioned is the one which had been rumoured about for so
many years. What are we to think ?
The answer is obvious. We may not regard the letter as absolute
proof, but to deny that it justifies critics in declaring it very pro-
bable that X was detected in cheating and in using precisely such
and such a method, would, in my opinion, be absurd.
The more so, as—I have often urged this point before—the modus
operandi alleged to have been used by D. D. Home in September
1857 at Biarritz is over and over again suggested by accounts of his
phenomena which we possess. To maintain that the action of D. D.
Home's feet could explain every1;hing we read about him, would be
absiu"d. But that it can account for a good deal is an imdoubted
fact, a fact on which the Biarritz exposure throws an additional if
somewhat lurid light.
Let the reader consider, for instance, the following passage from
one of Aksakov's works :
" Sometimes at Home's sittings (Home's
hands being upon the table and a candle burning) I would hold
under the table some object ; a pencil, a bell or a handkerchief, and
would feel how something began to touch, to take and to pull it ;
if I let it go, it would not fall down ; I once put my hand under the
table with a ring on one finger in order that it should be taken away,
as I hoped thus to know the operating agency better ; all at once
tender but firm fingers began to work, trying to take off the ring,
in so doing they naturally and inevitably touched my hand and I
was fully convinced these were living, warm, thin, human fingers." ^
Professor Boutlerov, who witnessed similar incidents mentions, it is
true, in his accoimt first published in the Moscow review Russhy
Vestnik, that Home's feet " were dressed in boots, were controlled
and did not move " ; but we are not told whether this " control
"
was uninterrupted, what it consisted of and whether the boots were
not of such a kind that they could be slipped off and put on again
with impunity and without difficulty. I may add that I once asked
M. Aksakov, who, if I mistake not, was a relation of the second Mme.
1 Pradvestniki Spiritisma [The Precursors of Spiritism], p. 485 n.
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 253
Home's/ " Did you control Home's feet ?
" To this he replied in
the affirmative, but at once added :
" And then you surely cannot
tie a knot in a handkerchief with your toes." From which I concluded
that it was chiefly in the nature of the supposed phenomena, not in
the character of the control that M. Aksakov saw a guarantee of
authenticity. Now, that an experienced conjurer—especially one
who has chosen to specialise in that way—is able to tie a Imot thus,
I have no doubt.
To turn to the chief scientific witness to Home's " manifestations,"
Sir W. Crookes describes {Proceedings, vi. 123) a case of " direct
"
writing (also under the table) which he calls " as striking a mani-
festation as I have ever seen." In this case again not a word is said
about the position of Home's feet : an omission which is certamly
unfortunate and strange. Perhaps it will appear less strange to us
when we reflect that Sir W. Crookes seems to have been much
impressed once by a sitting in which three mediums took part,
Home being one of them and Herne and Williams the other two ;
an episode which surely justifies us in assuming that his canons of
evidence in the domain of the physical phenomena may not always
have been identical with those of the average psychical researcher
of this year of grace 1929—nay, of some years earlier.
A propos of the letter, dated 12th April, 1871, mentioning the
sitting in question, which will be foimd in Dr. Fournier d'Albe's Life of
Sir William Crookes (pp. 191-3),^ I may be permitted to recall very
briefly in passing : (a) that the greatest scientific attainments and
achievements are no guarantee that an investigator will prove a
competent observer in dealing with phenomena such as those of
Home and other mediums ;
(b) that in our researches the personality
and individual capacities and qualifications of such investigators are
of far more vital importance than the personality of the medium.
For against the latter's supposed attempts at cheating—supposed
or indeed very real—we may, in theory at least, adopt precautions
which will completely nullify such attempts. As for the investi-
gator, if his name is one of scientific eminence, we are sometimes,
in retrospect at least, almost at his mercy. I shall never forget
Aksakov's attitude towards the Crookes and Zollner investigations ;
it irresistibly reminded me to some extent of a believing Christian's
^ It should be noted by the way that nothing or hardly anything is said in
either of her two books (D. D. Home, Ms Life and Mission and The Gift of
D. D. Home) about the Biarritz scandal, a circumstance the more worthy of
notice as much space is devoted by her to recounting and ridiculing the many
often grotesque and absurd rumours and racontars circulated about her
husband, the very grotesqueness or exaggerated character of which made
refutation the more easy. This omission seems, to me, to be of a certain
weight in estimating the general character and value of the two books.
^ The writer's comments on the letter are suggestive and, I think, justified.
254 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
attitude towards the Gospel. No doubt our position now is more
favoiirable than that of the generation of fifty or sixty years ago ;
yet there is still some room^for improvement.
To retm'n to D. D. Home : the Biarritz episode is not the only one
in which he may be reasonably suspected to have used fraudulent
methods. In our Journal for May 1903 (xi. 76-80) a narrative is
printed by a Mr. Merrifield (if I mistake not, Mrs. Salter's grandfather)
which is unfavourable to the genuineness of Home's " spirit hands."
And—a very characteristic detail surely—from a passage of this
narrative we are allowed to infer further that at a certain moment
the medium's hands were under the table and apparently free : a
circumstance which, coupled with not a few statements appearing
in other accormts (I have in view particularly Lord Dunraven's very
candid and instructive Experiences in Spiritualism ^), throw an
ominous light on the conditions of control which seem to have
prevailed often enough, very possibly as a general rule, at D. D.
These Experiences in particular prove to us quite conclusively, it
seems to me, that it was virtually Home who controlled and directed
the sittings ; and that precautions against fraud were either practi-
cally non-existeut or obviously inadequate. Omissions appear in
the accounts which prove that the observers had no idea of the
conditions required to make an experiment even relatively con-
vincing. Home was practically at liberty to act as he liked, moving
freely about the room and even leaving the room^. To absolutely
non-evidential (if not absurd ^) trance addresses the eye-witnesses
obviously attached—judging by the care with which they repro-
duced these addresses almost verbatim—the same importance as to
conclusive phenomena. And in some few cases we may indeed infer
quite legitimately that Home could have introduced a confederate
into the seance-xoom. without much difficulty. In saying this I have
particularly in view the sitting of 9th February, 1869 {Experiences,
p. 173) ; and surely it is significant that in Lord Adare's (Dun-
raven's) account, whilst not a word is said as to how the supposed
materialised form disappeared, we have plenty of details as to
absolutely non-evidential talks held at the sitting.
It may not unreasonably be asked whether the medium's elo-
quence did not play here, so to say, the part of a smoke-screen to
cover the materialised spirit's retreat.
Here are a few extracts which enable us, I think, to form an
^ My references are to the S.P.R. reprint in Proceedings (1925) xxxv.
^ See in particular Experiences, p. 166 and p. 167, footnote, from which it
follows that on a certain occasion Home may have left the room twice in
connection with a single " experiment " ! Here a sUght doubt seems to have
entered even Lord Dunraven's mind.
8 Experiences, pp. 144, 158, 245.
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 255
adequate idea of the conditions of control prevailing as a general
rule at least at the Dunraven sittings. In the account of the 62nd
sitting of 12th March, 1869, we read {Experiences, pp. 221-222) :
" He [Home] got up, and acting under an uncontrollable impulse,
walked about the room, his hands and arms being strangely waved
about and agitated ; he made mesmeric passes over us all . . . He
made passes for some time over my father's forehead, the back of
his head, and behind his ears, occasionally going to the table at
which we had previously been seated, and extending his fingers over
it as though withdrawing some influence from it. While walking
about he suddenly stopped in the middle of a sentence with a violent
gasp, and sinliing on his knees went into a trance. He got up,
walked about, apparently conversing with someone, and then, taking
each of us in turn by the hand, led us to the other table, placed
chairs for us, and signed to us to sit down. My father requested me
to bring paper and a pencil ; but Home shook his head, and after-
wards brought them himself. He then commenced arranging the
furniture in the most minute detail, consulting apparently all the
time with someone. He placed the small round table near us and
behind my father, and moved a chair up to it ; he altered the
position of several of the chairs in different parts of the room, placed
the miniature portrait of his wife on the small round table, and the
case containing little Daimie Cox's photograph on the largo table
behind me, then going to the bookcase he took out several books,
looked into them and replaced them ; at length he appeared to find
what he wanted, for he took out a volume, folded his hands across
it on his breast, and after standing for a few seconds in a most
reverential attitude, sank down upon his knees and appeared to
pray earnestly ; then rising to his full height he held the book as
high as he could above his head and placedlt upon our table."
Here is an extract from the account of the 68th sitting, 10th April,
1869 {Experiences, pp. 249-250) :
" Home got up, took a striped rug off the sofa, and covering his
shoulders, head, and face with it, began walking about the room in
a stealthy mamier, hiding behind the furniture, and crawling about
flat upon the ground, apparently lying in wait for some one.
Suddenly he put his hand upon the candle, and left us in almost
total darkness. I could just distinguish him gliding about the room,
and crawling on the floor."
Imagine the results a conjurer could achieve when operating under
such conditions ! Now it is needless to say that from the critical
and scientific standpoint we are bound to regard D. D. Home as
having very possibly been a tolerably good conjurer ; indeed we
have no right to regard him in a different light.
The following extract from Lord Adare's Experiences bears not
256 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solorovo. [part
so mucii on the conditions of control as on the degree of critical
acumen displayed by the sitters. At the sitting of 6th March, 1869,
already mentioned {Experiences, p. 209) :
" He [Home] placed chairs for us all, drew over a little table, and
sat down. It was pitch dark. Immediately a hand was laid on the
back of my head. He said '
They will touch you with flowers.'
Both Mrs. Wynne and I felt them. He said to Mrs Wynne, '
It was
John who touched you.' We heard at a little distance the sound of
flowers being stirred and broken, and immediately some were placed
in our hands. Mr. Home said, '
Take Daniel's hands, dear Emily,
we want you to be able to tell others that you held his hands and
felt his feet.' While Mr. Home's hands and feet were thus in contact
with Mrs. Wynne's we all simultaneously felt flowers waved across
our faces, heads, and hands."
From which it seems to follow that the writer (Lord Adare's
father) was inclined to regard as supernormal phenomena occur-
rences taking place in the dark and when the medium's hands were
free. Needless to say, the mere fact of the latter having been later
in contact with Mrs. Wynne's hands aiiords us but an inadequate
guarantee of genuineness.
At another moment in the same sitting, a flower pot with cycla-
mens having been put under the table, and raps having been heard.
Lord Adare's father reports the phenomena thus : {Experiences,
pp. 207-208) :
" I said to [Major] Blackburn :
'
Get under the table
and hold Mr Home's feet.' He did so, and we heard the raps dis-
tinctly over his head. Mr. Home suddenly said '
Oh, look at the
hand near me holding a flower !
'
Twice he said that he saw the
hand. I, somehow instinctively, put my hand under the table, and
immediately felt a flower placed very gently in it. The following
was then given :
'
The flower is from Augusta, with fond love.'
"
Now surely the crux of the whole matter is, in the present instance,
whether Home's feet were held at the moment the flower was placed
in the hand of Lord Adare's father. But as to this all-important
circiunstance we are told nothing. Let us however be fair and note
that there is some evidence of a critical attitude at times. Thus Lord
Dunraven teUs us in his account of Sitting No. 76, 25th June, 1869,
that having had the opportunity a few days before of seeing Miss
C— E.— write " under supposed spirit influence," he " obtained
permission to put a few questions. Among them I asked, '
What do
you think of Mr. Home ?
'
Miss R— wrote instantly, '
He has a
certain degree of power, but a vast amount of trickery.' In answer
to another question was written, '
He [Home] deceives people by
pretending that he can call up the spirits of their friends, etc'
These and other answers made me think that this was probably a
deceitful spirit " {Experiences, p. 270).
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 257
So Lord Dunraven did show some scepticism at times. But this
scepticism appears to have been chiefly dii-ected against those who
doubted Home's powers, even when such suggestions of doubt came
from what was to him the dark Beyond.
The following extract is, I think, particularly significant. At
Sitting No. 27 (no date, but clearly in October 1868) we are told,
{Experiences, p. 128) :
" Home then fetched the lamp back. We heard a knocking at
the door, he opened it and appeared to invite some one to come in,
but did not succeed ; he shut the door, when the knocking re-
commenced he opened it again, but was unsuccessful ; this was
repeated three or fovir times, at last he went and gathering some
ferns and flowers from ofi the coffin opened the door and held them
out ; still it was in vain, the knocking again occurred at the door,
and this time he took little Ada and led her to the door, when he
appeared to succeed in inducing the person to come in. He said,
'
It is — '
(a little servant girl who had died two days previously)."
Why have I called this extract particularly significant ? Because
it seems to show that, at times at least, Home would have been able
to admit an accomplice into the room if he had chosen to do so.
The number of sittings where we have to suppose that such an
introduction must have taken place, if we want to explain the
phenomena in a natural way, is indeed exceedingly small, but, as
I have pointed out already, there are such sittings. In the account
I have just quoted no particularly sensational incident occurs after
Home's movements, openings of the door, etc. But it is, I think,
an essential part of a fraudulent mediimi's equipment that his sitters
should get accustomed to view without suspicion certain gestures
which may ultimately play an important part in producing the
phenomena. In order to allay suspicions nothing of any importance
will follow such gestures or movements at first or indeed in most
cases. It is therefore conceivable that the sitters will attach to them
no significance and therefore will end by omitting them from their
accounts ; and indeed this may have happened in connection with
the sitting of 9th February, 1869, though another explanation is also
possible : that the accomplice may have been hidden in the room.
Now there is every reason to suppose that the 78 Dunraven
sittings 1 were not different in quality from Home's other sittings.
We may therefore legitimately infer that in the accoimts we possess
of some of the latter (not excepting the Crookes evidence) there are
^ Among them we have the famous sitting of 13th December, 1868 (Home
being levitated out of one window of Ashley House, Victoria Street, and
carried into another). This occurrence, says the then Master of Lindsay,
later Earl of Cra'wford and Balcarres, one of the sitters, took place with the
moon " shining fuU into the room." As a matter of fact the new moon could
not then light the room, however faintly {Experiences, p. 152, footnote).
258 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
.
[part
omissions, perhaps not unimportant ones, likely to afford us a
natural clue to episodes apparently inexplicable. In the numerous
involtmtary indications Lord Dunraven's candid account gives us
in this respect lies in my oi^inion the chief value of the Experiences
in Spiritualism ivith D. D. Home.
To return to Sir William Crookes's experiences : when he pub-
lished for the first time his accounts of investigations in the phen-
omena of Spiritualism (I refer chiefly, but not exclusively, to his first
papers in the Quarterly Journal of Science for 1871) the reader was
certainly entitled to conclude from his descriptions that these
investigations were scientific experiments occurring in fairly good
light and under conditions reminding us more or less of those which
prevail in a laboratory. This was, so to say, a first phase.
But in 1889 the " Notes on seances with D. D. Home " published
in Proceedings presented us with a somewhat different picture. The
supposedly carefully planned experiments proved chiefly—though
perhaps not exclusively—to have been incidents in spiritualistic
sittings selected out of a more or less long series. From various
passages it was obvious that these sittings were not very different
in character—except perhaps for the personality of some of the
sitters and at times for the intensity of the phenomena—from many
ordinary ones. This was, so to say, phase number two.
Already at this stage it was becoming obvious that in order to
attach a decisive importance to observations occurring under such
conditions psychical researchers must needs throw overboard a
canon of evidence imposed on them but a little time previously with
much insistence and against not a little opposition. Indeed if—as
some of our most eminent members were inclined to conclude from
such experiments as those of S. J. Davey—no paramount importance
can be attached to observations made in full light and under
apparently very simple conditions (I have in view Eglinton's slate-
writing) but conditions not excluding the necessity for " continuous
observation," what were we to think of the evidential cogency of
supposedly supernormal occurrences sometimes of a rather compli-
cated character taking place in poor light and often unexpectedly,
such as Sir William Crookes briefly described ? The conditions for
continuous observations seemed here still more imfavourable than
at the Eglinton sittings.^
It seems to me that the Adare Experiences in Spiritualism bring
us one step further. AVe seem to have entered on a third stage.
^ Personally, it is true, I have never attached decisive importance to the
negative argument derived from continuous observation. Why ? Because
to me it is the personality of the witness or observer which is the paramount
factor, all the rest being of subsidiary importance. But I am spealdng here
from the standpoint of the psychical researcher of the Hodgsonian type—in
the physical phenomena, not in the Piper sphere.
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 259
They present us with regard to the Home sittings and to Home's
behaviour at these sittings with a picture to which Sir W. Crookes's
accounts had not accustomed us. Various actions of the medium's
are described as to which the great scientist's notes seem to be much
more reticent. What are we to conclude ? Seeing as I have already
said that there is not the slightest reason to thmk that the Adare
sittings were different in quality and in character from other Home
sittings, we are justified in thinking that if Sir William Crookes's
notes had been as full as Lord Adare's we should have found in
them, now and then, indications suggesting a possible natural
explanation of occurrences which as described seem to exclude it.
This is only a hypothesis, but a hypothesis based, it seems to me, on
data not to be lightly set aside.
Here is another negative testimony bearing on Home, and a
particularly significant one, because coming from Baron du Potet,
the celebrated French mesmerist. He writes (I quote from the Revue
Meta/psycMque of September-October 1927, p. 390) :
" There is something mysterious to investigate, and it is only with
circumspection that we must admit the avowed and advocated cause
of all the strange phenomena produced by IVIr. Home. In any case
our feeling is that there is a mixture, that all is not always inde-
pendent of the medium himself and that one day we shall be
astonished to learn that the psychic force was not alone at the service
of Mr. Home. But is it I who dare to-day write these words of
distrust, I who have praised and extolled this extraordinary medium,
I the spiritualist ? Why not, if doubt has entered my mind ?
" ^
Du Potet had therefore doubts—very possibly very grave ones
—
as to the genuineness of some of Home's performances. He expresses
them in somewhat Delphian language, and gives no details. How
many of the great medium's clients and friends, it may be asked,
may have felt the same suspicions and under strong pressure have
been prevented from uttering them ? Chi la sa ?
These two instances—IVIr Merrifield's and Baron du Potet's
—
show us that, even apart from the Barthez evidence, we have
testimony tending to disprove the legend as to Home's immunity
from detection. In any case there are in his career several suspicious
incidents. And there is besides this most sinister similarity between
the substance of the Biarritz detection and the character of a great
many phenomena which have been recorded of him.
I pass on to another aspect of the subject, and I think, a very
important one : the late Mr. Podmore has been accused in our
publications—and possibly elsewhere—of making insinuations
against the honesty of Stainton Moses and also of Home (Journal,
xxi. 140). Against such accusations I feel bound to protest emphati-
^ [The French text of this quotation is printed in the Appendix. Hon. Ed.]
260 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
cally. D. D. Home seems to tave led, on the whole, a very pleasant
and attractive life, moving in the " best " society (not precisely a
very competent judge in such matters as psychical research as a
general rule, I am afraid) sitting to-day with Napoleon III of France,
to-morrow with Alexander II of Russia,^ having the satisfaction of
his phenomena being endorsed by one of the first scientists of the
century. He is supposed never to have been |)ciic^ in the proper sense
of the word, but he most undoubtedly derived from his sittings and
from the glamour emanating from them very substantial and useful
material advantages. As a general rule the conditions xmder which
these sittings took place were such that, judging at least by what
Lord Adare tells us, in nineteen cases out of twenty, it was a question
not of Home being prevented from cheating, but of his being un-
willing to deceive. The " manifestations," if of no fraudulent origin,
were most obviously inexplicable by known natural laws. It does
not by any means follow necessarily from this circumstance alone
that they were of a spmious character ; and I for my part do not
propose to reject any really well attested evidence in, I think, almost
any domain on purely a priori grounds. But—and this is with me a
crucial point—so long as the authenticity of the alleged phenomena
has not been proved beyond doubt, we are perfectly and absolutely
justified in regarding the good faith of the supposed medium or
clairvoyant, or whatever else, as open to suspicion. This, quite
independently from the " social position " (a rather elusive con-
ception) of this clairvoyant or medium, and whether his name be
D. D. Home, Rev. Stainton Moses, Chamberlain X, or any other.
To me this is, I confess, an axiom so self evident that I am almost
formulating it with a certain gene.
This self-evident truth amply justifies us in casting a shadow
—
the shadow of a doubt—upon Home's memory and career, without
taking much into account in what society he moved, whose friendship
he enjoyed and in what drawing-rooms he was lionised.
Two more remarks. Primo : we are often told that the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are produced, on the spirit hypothesis,
by an inferior class of entities, to whom we cannot look either for
high moral teaching or for proofs of identity But with Home, on
the contrary, the phenomena have a distinctly spiritualistic char-
acter ;
they are originated by the " spirits " of the sitters' deceased
relations, if not invariably at least often ;
identity tests seem also
to be given at times. Surely it is a significant fact that this deviation
^ One of whose A.D.C. Generals was my maternal grandfather. He believed
Home to have authentic power, but to cheat occasionally. Mrs. Salter has
seen a translation of part of a letter received lately by me from my grand-
father's daughter and bearing on the subject.
- 1 know of course that there are exceptions to this generalisation. But
broadly spealdng such a statement has become almost a truism.
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 261
from what we were entitled to consider a " law " occurred in the
case of a privileged medium, a rarissima avis—who enjoyed an
unique opportunity in having access to various sources of infor-
mation concerning his clients' private affairs and family matters.
For it is obvious that may of these clients looked on Home as un
des leurs, as one of their number, and had every confidence in him.
By calling attention to this curious fact, I do not necessarily imply
that its explanation must be of a sinister character ; but if not so,
it seems to be one more instance of that diversity of " laws "—real
or alleged—in the domain of spiritualism, and in particular of
physical spiritualism, which we are well entitled to regard as some-
what disconcerting.
Secundo : Were I asked which of Home's phenomena seem to me
nevertheless particularly unlikely to have been due to trickery and
cheating, I would answer, I think, that some of his performances with
burning coals, especially such a case as Mr. S. C. Hall's {Experiences,
pp. 280-282), would appear to me to exceed the limits of conjuring
(but not of a peculiar form of suggestion perhaps) ; and in this
connection I would add that the most conclusive evidence collected
by the S.P.R. as to physical phenomena is possibly that which deals
with alleged facts of a similar character (such as the Fire-walk). It
is not inconceivable, some will think, that in this similarity there
may be something more than a mere chance coincidence.
Before finishing I wish to remark that, so far as I have ascertained,
some people are even now somewhat " touchy " when doubts are
expressed as to the moral character of D. D. Home. Such people
will permit me respectfully to remind them that the celebrated
medium belongs to history. And that to matters historical that
Latin saying (a saying, it seems to me, of somewhat doubtful
wisdom) : De m.ortuis nil nisi bene cannot, by any means apply.
Otherwise there would be no history !
I also wish to say in conclusion a few words explanatory of a
passage of my paper which is likely perhaps to be misunderstood.
I said above that if the investigator's " name is one of scientific
eminence we are sometimes, in retrospect at least, almost at his
mercy." This sentence must not be interpreted as implying hostility
towards savants on my part. Believing as I do Science to be the
greatest benefactress of mankind, how could I view those who
represent it otherwise than with feelings of the greatest respect, and
often of the greatest gratitude ? But from this to the infallibility
of savants there is a long way. From this to asserting that a scientist
cannot be, in the sphere with which we are here dealing, an inadequate
observer ^ there is also a long way. Nor am I, I confess, altogether
^ The late Professor N. Wagner of the University of St. Petersburg, one of
the pioneers of spiritism in Russia and a Corresponding Member of the S.P.R.
,
262 Count PerovsJcy-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
convinced that even a prince of Science will always be ready publicly
to admit that he made a mistake—that he has been in fact deceived
—however easy it has always seemed to me to recognise one's
mistakes. Nor do I think a man of science, whatever name he bears,
is justified in omitting to describe in detail what precautions he took
against fraud in his researches ; and by the way, in so speaking I
am merely repeating what Mrs. Sidgwick said in 1886 in a paper on
the physical phenomena of spiritualism in our Proceedings (iv. 65),
specially mentioning by name in this connection Sir William Crookes
and Professor Zollner. I do not think it improbable that the
explanation of part of the halo which still surroimds D. D. Home's
name in the domain of so-called scientific investigation of his
phenomena is to be sought somewhere in this direction ; and
coupled with the undoubtedly suspicious incidents and circumstances
spoken of above, the whole seems to me to detract a good deal from
the reputation of the greatest of known physical mediums. I do not
feel justified in asserting more ; but so much can, I think, be asserted
safely.
Note which Sir Oliver Lodge wishes appended to the foregoing Paper,
as an additional cavtion to new members :
Although I had no first-hand experience of Home's phenomena,
other evidence has convinced me that psycho-physical phenomena
are possible, and I would remind readers that there is abundant
testimony in favour of the production of such phenomena by Home.
Count Perovsky's Paper aims at being a fair presentation of the
testimony in a contrary direction. It does not claim to settle the
matter, as by a judicial decision.
APPENDIX.
The French Texts or Extracts Translated in the Foregoing
Paper.
Extract from Dr Barthez's letter dated 25th September, 1857.
. . . Je te dirai pour t'amuser qu'on a fini par saisir I'un des
precedes au moyen desquels M. Hume evoque les esprits. L'lm-
peratrice en est reduite a dire que le Hume d'aujourd'hui n'est plus
is a case to the point. His credulity was bewildering. Aksakov was not a
hypercritical observer or writer, yet I shall never forget with what indignation
he spoke to me once of a report of Professor Wagner's (a very distinguished
entomologist by the way) on some " experiments " with a Russian physical
medium called Nikolaev.
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 263
le Hume d'autrefois, qn'il a perdu son pouvoir, et qu'il cherche a
le remplacer par des subterfiiges. La cliose est fort simple. M.
Hume a des souliers fins, facile a oter et a remettre ; il a aussi, je
crois, des bas coupes qui laissent les doigts libres. Au moment
voulu il ote un de ses souliers, et avec son pied tire une robe par-ci,
une robe par-la, fait tinter une sonnette, cogne d'un cote ou d'un
autre, et la chose une fois faite remet prestement sa cbaussure. Cela
a ete vu par M. Morio qui en a fait une belle relation ecrite et signee
avec tons les details necessaires pour etablir I'authenticite de sa
decouverte. Hume a vu qu'on devrnait son affaire et il faisait, je
t'assure, piteuse figure . . . Du coup les seances d'evocation des
esprits ont cesse au chateau et nous esperons cet indigne charlatan
est demonetise. Cependant Sa Majeste ne pent pas digerer qu'un
homme ait eu le front de se moquer a ce point d'elle et de I'Empereur
pendant tme annee.
Extract from M. Paul Heme's letter dated 9th March, 1929.
Je lis aujourd'hui seulement votre lettre du 9 fevrier, qui m'a
couru apres. Voici les renseignements que vous me demandez :
. . . Ce passage fut public par mes soins dans la Revue de France
de janvier 1924. Quelque temps apres Dicksonn, qui faisait des
conferences contre le spiritisme et qui racontait, en passant,
I'histoire de Home a Biarritz, me dit avoir re§u la visite, a la Salle
de Geographic, a Tissue d'lme de ses conferences, de M. Morio de
risle Jils, qui ltd confirma que son pere lui avait souvent raconte
cette anecdote.
De mon cote, en fevrier, j'allai trouver le Prince Roland Bonaparte
et lui portai le passage des lettres du Dr Barthez, en le priant,
puisqu'il devait voir bientot S.M. I'lmperatrice Eugenie, au Cap
Martin, de lui demander si decidement les choses s'etaient bien
passees ainsi. Quelques semaines apres, je revis le prince, qui me
dit textuellement :
" L'Imperatrice se rappelle fort bien I'aventure
et m'en a confirme tous les details. Elle ne se rappelle plus qui
avait tourne le robinet du bee de gaz ; mais Home etait bien dans
I'attitude scandaleuse que decrit Barthez." J'ai done apporte ce
nouveau temoignage dans mon livre Oil en est la Metapsychique . . . ?
(Signed) Paul Heuze.
Extract from M. Diclcsonn's letter dated 12th March, 1929.
Paul Heuze est mon disciple depuis 1921, epoque a laquelle il est
entre dans la lutte, et je lui ai fourni tous les elements pour se
documentor.
Les spirites sont, comme toujours, de mauvaise foi, heureusement
qu'il y a des preuves.
Je certifie que :
B
264 Count Perovshy-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
1°. Le ler mai 1919 Monsieur G., Consul de France, m'a rendu
visite aux Societes Savantes avec son ami M. Morio, fils de celui qui
a surpris Home le 5 7re 1857 a Biarritz, et celui-ci m'a raconte
comment son pere a demasque Home.
2°. Le 7 9re 1920 le Prince Roland Bonaparte tint a venir lui-
meme a la Societe de Geographic dont il etait President, pour me
confirmer I'autlienticite de la seance de Biarritz que lui avait raconte
plusieurs fois I'lmperatrice Eugenie.
Le Prince est mort, mais sa fiUe la Prince sse Georges de Grece
qui etait an courant est la pour certifier les paroles de son pere.
Ces deux temoignages reduisent a neant les dementis interesses
des spirites.
Voila, Monsieur, ce que je peux vous declarer et vous autoriser a
crier bien haut en mon nom.
Depuis 17 ans je niene ime campagne acharnee contre les exploi-
teurs de la credulite publique et suis heureux d'avoir fait des adeptes.
(Signed) Professor Dicksonn, Comte de St. Genois.
Statement by Baron du Potet jwintecl in the Revue Metapsychique
(September-October 1927), p. 390.
II y a quelque chose de mysterieux a approfondir et ce n'est
qu'avec circonspection que Ton doit admettre la cause avouee et
soutenue de tous les phenomenes etranges produits par M. Home.
Dans tous les cas, notre sentiment est qu'il y a melange, que tout
n'est pas toujours independant de lui-meme, et qu'un jour on sera
etonne d'apprendre que la force psychique n'etait pas seule au
service de M. Home. Mais est-ce moi qui ose aujourd'hui ecrire ces
paroles de mefiance, moi qui ai loue et prone ce medium extra-
ordinaire, moi le spiritualiste ? Pourquoi pas, si le doute est entre
dans mon esprit ?
Extract from Dr E. Cyan, Dieu et Science {Paris 1910), p. 255.
Aussitot apres la publication de mon article sur la seance du
10 mars 1871, le General Comte Fleury, ancien ambassadeur a
Petersbourg, me fit communiquer par le Dr Pelikan les details
d'une seance a Compiegne oii il avait reussi a prendre Home sur le
fait. A cette seance assistaient I'Empereur, I'lmperatrice, la
Princesse Metternich et quelques autres intimes de la cour. Autour
de la table Home avait a sa gauche I'lmperatrice Eugenie et a gauche
de celle-ci se trouvait Napoleon HI. Le Comte Fleury assis en face
de Home fut frappe de I'insistence avec laquelle ce dernier dirigeait
la conversation de maniere a. ce que I'lmperatrice fut obligee de
Tester continuellement tournee vers I'Empereur, pour lui poser des
questions,
114] Some Thoughts on D. D. Home. 265
Soupgoiinant quelque tour de passe-passe, le General Fleury
denaanda permission de se retirer ; il sortit par la porte situee a
droite de la table, mais il rentra inaper^ii par une autre porte qui se
trouvait derriere Home. II vit alors celui-ci entr'ouvrir la semelle
de sa bottine droite, laisser quelque temps son pied nu sur le marbre
du sol, puis subitement par un mouvement rapide et d'une agilite
extraordinaire, toucber avec ses doigts de pied la main de I'lmpera-
trice qui sursauta en criant : "La main d'un enfant mort vient de
me toucber !
" Le General Fleury s'avangant alors, devoila ce
qu'il avait vu. Le lendemain Home fut embarque a Calais, sous la
conduite de deux agents : la consigne etait de tenir I'incident secret.
b2
A METHOD OF ESTIMATING THE SUPERNORMAL
CONTENT OF MEDIUMISTIC COMMUNICATIONS.
In the general report on the Warren Elliott sittings [Proceedings,
xxxix. 117-184) mention was made of an attempt to devise a method
of estimating the value of the evidence for supernormal knowledge
as compared with chance.
The problem was placed before Mr. S. G. Soal and after a consider-
able amount of discussion he evolved a formula. Mr. Soal felt that
an authoritative confirmation of this formula was desirable, seeing
that, while a professional mathematician, he had not specialised in
the statistical branch. The problem was then submitted to Dr. R.
A. Fisher, F.R.S., who most kindly gave the benefit of his wide
knowledge of these matters. He suggested a slight modification of
the formula evolved by Mr. Soal and in view of his great authority,
this final formula may confidently be accepted as correct.^
I. THE METHOD.
By H. F. Saltmarsh and S. G. Soal.
The problem is as follows. The medium makes a series of state-
ments, some of which are veridical and some not. The intrinsic
probability of each individual statement is taken as known. The
method suggested for arriving at this knowledge has been discussed
in the appendix to the report above referred to. It should be noted
that this method does not profess to give the exact value of the
individual probability but only an estimated maximum. The result
arrived at by the application of any formula will, therefore, be a
minimum value for the sitting as compared with pure chance : the
actual value will always be higher. This, from the nebulous and
indefinite nature of the subject-matter, is all that can be obtained,
but from the point of view of psychical research, a minimum value
is all that is needed. It cannot be denied that it would be an in-
1 In this paper the mathematical details, subject to Dr. Fisher's emendation,
are due to Mr. Soal, but Mr. Saltmarsh is responsible for the application of the
formula and the estirnation of the probabilities of the various statements.
266
Estimating Content of Mediumistic Comrmmications. 267
estimable benefit in the work if it could be said with some confidence
that the veridicality of the statements made in any particular case
was at least so many times in excess of chance. For the purposes of
the mathematical evaluation of a sitting, however, the maximum
individual probabilities are taken to be the real actual values.
There are three possible conditions which may govern a speaker
when making a statement : (a) He may have knowledge and be
speaking the truth ; (6) He may have no knowledge and be guessing ;
(c) He may have knowledge and be speaking untruth.
In the case of a sitting with a mediimi it is first of all necessary to
eliminate the possibility of normal knowledge, and this can only be
done by a consideration of the conditions of the sitting and the
nature of the statements made. We will suppose that this has been
done and that all possibility of normal knowledge, fraud, etc., has
been excluded or allowed for, also that other disturbing factors such
as cliches have been eliminated. Condition {a) would then be when
the mediimi possessed supernormal knowledge of some sort and
obtained the information given by means of telepathy, clairvoyance
or some other supernormal faculty. Condition (6) would be where
any such faculty was absent. Condition (c) would be where the
supernormal faculty was what may be called negative. It may be
doubted whether condition (c) ever actually occurs, but for the sake
of logical completeness it must be envisaged as a possibility. If the
evaluation of a sitting should yield an amount of veridicality far
below that attributable to chance, that is, a negative score, we
should have to suppose, in the absence of normal causes, that some
sort of negative supernormal faculty was in o|)eration and had
inhibited successful guessing.
It must also be borne in mind that, even where conditions (a) and
[c) are in operation, they will not always be successful ; thus, though
the medium may possess supernormal faculty, she will sometimes
make mis-statements. Many conditions may be suggested which
would bring this about, for example, vagueness of the supernormal
knowledge, fluctuations of the faculty, confusions between sources
of information and so on. Moreover all three conditions may be
mixed up together in the same sitting.
The figure given as the result of the application of the formula
to a sitting will be called the " real score " for that sitting ; a further
figure is calculated which represents the " standard error " ; the
ratio of the real score to the standard error is called the " vahie
"
of the sitting.
There is one further point which must be mentioned. The
evidential value of a veridical statement depends entirely on itself
and camiot be held to be altered in any way by any subsequent
mistakes which the medium may make, except in the limiting case
268 A Method of Estimating the Supernormal [part
where tlie total amount of veridicality of the sitting comes within
the range of chance. If I score a couple of bull's eyes, the fact that
I may then miss the target altogether a dozen times, does not alter
the fact that I have made two good shots.
The thesis is that when normal knowledge can be excluded and
the real score is positive and considerably exceeds the standard
error, condition (a) has governed the medium to some extent, that
is to say, he possesses some sort of supernormal knowledge ; where
it is negative and considerably exceeds the standard error, condition
(c) is inferred.
To turn now to the formula itself, let the sitting consist of n
statements, of which n^^ have each an intrinsic probability of p-^,
of these being correct or veridical and - r^^ incorrect, "^ith a
probability p.2 and r^ correct, % with probability ^3 and fg correct
and so on. The ji^'s, are fractions less than unity, so that if any
statement has a chance of being true say once in every four times,
then for this statement p = \.
Mr. Soal argued as follows. If the production of the statements
was governed by chance alone, then such scores should be allocated
to the individual statements as would make the resultant score equal
to zero. Now with a group of N statements each of the same proba-
bility p, the most likely number of correct statements due to chance
will be Npi and the most likely number of incorrect statements will
be N-N]:). It is natm-al to assume the score of a single correct
statement to be - log p, and on this assumption the score for the
Np correct statements will he-Njj log p. Hence the score for the
N - Np incorrect statements will be +Np log p, and it follows that
the score for a single incorrect statement is
Np log p/N - Np=p log 2)/l - p-
In this way the total " probable chance score " of the group of N
statements is clearly zero.
Dr. Fisher makes a slight modification in this formula. He lays
it down that the difference in value between the scores of a correct
and an incorrect statement should be - log p. This makes the
score of a correct statement = -(l-j9)log^, and of an incorrect
= +]) log 2^- As before it is evident that the resultant chance score
of the Njj correct and N -Np incorrect statements is zero.
Hence on this system the resultant score for a series of statements
of which have the probability p-^^ with r^ correct, «2 have the
probability with r^ correct and so on is
~r^{l-p) log p^-r^ {I-P2) logpz-r^ (l-J^s) ^^gp^, etc.
+ (^1 - ^1) Ih log Ih + («2 - ^2) P2 log P2 + {^3 - rs) log pg, etc.
= (Wi - h)
log Px + («2 Ih - ^2) log P2 + >
etc.
It now remains to calculate the Standard Error of this expression.
114] Content of Mediumistic Communications. 269
In the case of a group of N statements each of probability f the
total score has been seen to be (Nf - r) log j), where r is the number
of correct statements in the group and the standard error for this
score is, by Bernouilli's theorem, calculated to be
- -jNp (1 -p) log p.
Hence by Gauss's law of squares the Standard Error of the whole
series of % + . . . = n statements will be
V n^pi {l-pi) [log Pif+n2P2 {I-P2) [log Pzf+etG.
In accordance with the usual practice of statisticians we shall not
consider any series to be significant as regards the existence of
conditions (a) or (c) unless the total score, positive or negative as
the case may be, is at least equal to twice this Standard Error in
numerical value. In the case of a positive score greater than
2 X S.E. there will be grounds for suspecting the existence of (a) and
of (c) in the case of a similar negative score. If the real score is
positive or negative but less than twice the Standard Error we
cannot assume either conditions (a) or (c) to have been present but we
cannot definitely infer their absence, for it is clearly possible that a
combination of (a) and (c), that is for positive and negative super-
normal knowledge might produce a result that would simulate a.
chance score.
II. A SPECIMEN APPLICATION OF THE METHOD.
By H. F. Saltmarsh.
As an example I will apply the formula to an actual sitting taken
from the Warren Elliott series. It is a particularly good Sitter
Present sitting, but was not chosen for that reason but rather for its
shortness. For the sake of brevity I give here only a summary of
the statements.
(1)
" You had an upset at home." Certainly not more than one
person out of every four has an upset at home at any given time.
I estimate the maximimi probability at 1/4.
(2)
" You are not worried because it is a relief." Very few
" upsets " are " reliefs "
;
say jj = l/10.
(3)
" It was hard on your Mummy." This really contains two
statements, first that the sitter had a mother Hving, second that the
upset was hard on her. The age of the sitter renders the first pretty
probable, say three to four, jj = 3/4 ; the second is also inherently
probable, most upsets in a home are liable to be hard on the mother,
say again 3/4, or combined say 1/2.
(4) The ostensible communicator " Couldn't do much, not only
270 A Method of Estimating the Supernormal [part
ill but couldn't use arms or perhaps legs." This again combines two
statements : first that the ostensible communicator was an invalid,
second that he couldn't use arms or legs. It is about seven chances
that any communicator, that is to say a person who has passed
over, had been an invalid in life, say p=lj2. That any invalid
should besides his illness not be able to use arms or legs, may be
fairly estimated at one in three, combined p = l/Q.
(5)
" Upset made you jolly busy." About even chance, j» = 1/2.
(6)
" You got young girl in house, when trouble comes she
collapses." Two statements are again combined, viz. the presence
of the young girl in the house and her alleged collapse. The modern
girl does not as a rule collapse under trouble, it therefore seems fair
to put this pretty high, say one in ten, for the combined statements,
p = ljlO.
(7)
" He appreciates Mummy's courage and all your courage.
Says you miss responsibility more than him, cause him feels him
wasn't much use to any of you." Most people are courageous under
difficulties, say three in four, p — i/i. It is not every invalid who is
not much use to his family, say even chances, p = lj2. Combined
say p=l/3.
(8)
" Him quite happy." Unverifiable.
(9)
" He was broad." There are roughly three possible descrip-
tions, that is, broad, medium and slight, ;2;
= l/3.
(10) " He was not tall." There are four possible descriptions for
height with Mrs. Elliott, very tall, tall, medium and short : say 1/4.
(11) " Him says hims passing was really lucky kind." The
communicator actually passed as the result of a stroke and not
from the paralysis from which he had suffered for many years. His
final illness was a short one. I estimate the maximum probability
of this statement about the passing being lucky, being true of any
person who has died at 1/4.
(12) " He is glad you did not go to a lot of expense for things."
People do not spend so much on mourning as they used. I estimate
this at p = lj3.
(13) " Sends his love to three people in youi' house." The
significant part of this statement is the number three. What
proportion of families consist of three persons ? I should say not
more than one in four, ^ = 1/4.
(14) " He was sort of ill, yet not ill, could have done things with
his head." The communicator had for years been paralysed in both
legs as the result of accidental injury to his hips, otherwise he was
well. In the above statement Topsy describes his condition very
well in her own peculiar manner. Such circumstances are unusual
and the statement would not be true of many invalids, certainly
not one in ten. Call ^^ = 1/10.
114] Content of Mediumistic Communications. 271
(15) " Used to read a lot." About even chance, j> = 1/2.
(16) " Somebody closely connected witb. you." Probably true
for any communicator, say ;p = 3/4.
Of tbe above statements (8) is unverifiable and is therefore
neglected. All the rest are correct with the exception of (6). We
have therefore :
1 correct of the value of ^ = 3/4
3
3
I
1
2
and 1 incorrect
Real score then is
(1-3/4) log 3/4-3 (1
-4(1-1/4) log 1/4
+ 1/10 log 1/10
=5-59166
The Standard Error is
(1
P=l/4:
p = llQ
p = l/10
J9
= l/10
1/2) log 1/2 -3 (1-1/3) log 1/3
1/6) log 1/6 - 2 (1 - 1/10) log 1/10
3/4 (1-3/4) [log 3/4]2+3/2 (1-1/2) [log 1/2]^
+3/3 (1-1/3) [log 1/3]--
+ 4/4 (1-1/4) [log l/4]2 + l/6 (1-1/6) [log 1/6]^
+ 3/10 (1-1/10) [log 1/10J2
= V^84861 = -9212.
-TT IT 1 pn-,i- Real Score 5-59166
Hence Value of bittmg = rT^ t
—t—r=,
= ^
* Standard Error -9212
= 6-2 (approx).
A reference to the Probability Integral tables shows that for
normal distributions positive deviations of magnitude equal to or
greater than the above (6-2 x S.D) would be expected to occur rather
less than once in a thousand million trials. I submit that this result
is such that the hypothesis that chance alone could have produced
this amoimt of veridicality is definitely excluded and that the margin
is sufficiently large to allow a substantial modification in the
estimation of the individual probabilities if it should be considered
that they have been put at unduly favourable figures.
01' IIIE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 115
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.^
By Dr Walter Franklin Prince.
On other occasions of this character, the snhject of Psychical
Research has been approached from the standpoint of eminent men
who were primarily philosophers, psychologists or physicists. That
rare combination, the poet and scientist, has been heard. There
has been the light but incisive touch of the litteratem-. The states-
man, the physiologist, the logician, the theologian, the classicist, the
physician, and the astronomer have spoken, likewise others who
have attained convictions of greater or less scope through experi-
mentation. I, the humble follower of this illustrious line, have one
chief passion, the essaying the solution of puzzles, and one chief
qualification, a lifetime of indefatigable practice.
Evolution of a Psychical Researcher.
I speak, then, from the viewpoint of one who likes to tackle
puzzles, and has from earliest recollection. All sorts of puzzles in
boyhood, mechanical, mathematical, verbal. Later puzzles as to
literary genuineness, the identity of handwriting, mooted points m
history, etc. Then puzzles in psychology. And finally puzzles in
psychical research.
The first piece of work of mine which furnished a slight addition
to human knowledge was to correct the statement in books on
American history that the so-called Blue Laws of Colonial New
England were forgeries by one Samuel Peters. I am one of those
who, in relation to psychical research, are suspected of a will-to-
believe. Since the view I came to take on that historical question
1 Delivered at a Private Meeting of the Society, 14 July 1930.
C
274 I)r Walter Franklin Prince [part
was as contrary to the prevailing one as any view regarding tele-
pathy, etc., is now to prevailing views, or prejudices of the scientific
world, and since it was held as passionately or dispassionately, I
have sometimes looked back on that early jjuzzle and asked if the
will-to-believe led the w^ay to its solution. Really that question is
irrelevant to the actual issue, which was decided by the facts and
the argument and is so accepted. But it is exactly as relevant as
it is to facts and arguments with which this Society is concerned.
Perhaps a previous entire conscious acquiescence in the then opinion
of historians that the " Blue Laws " were forgeries by Peters only
covered a subconscious opposition, but that opinion can be satis-
factory only to those psychoanalysts to whom advocacy and
opposition argue the same inward disposition, either openly in
operation or latent and masked by a defensive mechanism. Perhaps
the first and unsought discovery, embedded in the voluminous
Colonial records, of an actual statute whose existence had been
denied, was guided by a desire to find it, but that would seem to
imply seership. Since the prevailing view in respect to the " Blue
Laws " and Peters had never satisfactorily been shown valid, one
might think it would have been gratifying to amoKr-'propre to have
been the first to demonstrate that this account was true. Further
discoveries of obscure statutes substantially corresponding to Peters'
abstracts, and also of customs of the courts—the begiimings of an
American common law—likewise in correspondence, and finally of
a much earlier compilation from v/hich Peters directly derived the
most of his examples, would seem sufficiently to account for the
conclusion finally arrived at and to make the supposition of an
inward bent unnecessary.
This instance is analyzed because it presents an exact analogy to
subsequent studies of a dift'erent species. Puzzles in psychical
research presented themselves ; some unusual and striking fact,
apparently an anomaly, appeared, awakening ciiriosity, and
curiosity was the stimulus to examination ; there was the same
initial doubt, the same willingness either to establish or destroy as
developments directed, and the same tipping of the scales more and
more wdth accumulating evidence and its inexorable logic. Such,
in a nut shell, has been the story of my being drawn into psychical
research, and that of the most of us has probably not been far
dissimilar.
True, certain investigators, including one of our Presidents, have
confessed, nay proclaimed, that a desire to ascertain if there might
not be found proofs of survival, lay at the root of their investigations.
This desire need not cripple the spirit of rigid analysis and the logical
sense, and it emphatically did not in the case of Myers, whose
appraisement of cases could hardly be improved upon. Another
116] Presidential Address 275
President intimated that a desire to receive messages from deceased
friends must miderlie favourable interest in this field. To this I
emphatically demur.
In the first place there is earnest study of phenomena which do
not in the least seem to relate to the question of survival. But, it
may be urged, one feels that to. prove a wider extension of psychical
powers and relations renders more likely a still wider extension,
reaching even to communication with intelligences once embodied
on this earth. Then I fall back upon the assertion that it is quite
possible, and a possibility realized by some, to be so dominated by
intellectual curiosity as to the solution of puzzles that all other
emotions and considerations become insignificant. Not that
interest in, and curiosity about the question of survival need or can
be quite extinguished, either in ourselves or those who have contempt
for psychical research. That would be mental atrophy. But in all
the years of my experimentation with mediums, I have never asked
for a message from a deceased relative or friend, not because of the
adoption of any self-denying ordinance, but because not messages
but data from whatever purported source were the desideratum.
Furnished with but scanty information regarding the real puzzles
of psychical research, and no actual observation except of a few
examples of professional fakery, in the rash confidence of youth I
used to deliver lectures, "explaining " them all along the familiar
lines of hallucination, delusion, auto-suggestion, mass-suggestion,
mal-observation, memory-aberration, chance coincidence, and the
rest.
Later, the fact that certain distinguished representatives of the
sciences said to be in integral opposition to the validity of any of
these puzzles, in the presence of their contemptuous colleagues had
announced their conviction that some of them were, nevertheless,
valid, that is that they yielded only to what we provisionally call a
supernormal explanation, reduced me to a silence maintained for
years. If psychical research were indeed a rat-hole, it was a rat-
hole, to quote Lincoln, worth looking into. In other words, the
puzzles must be very hard, if such men could not find a solution on
the old familiar terms, and hard puzzles invite the puzzle-lover. It
might be that all the smoke hovering above alleged mental and
physical phenomena was merely smudge, but it began to look as if
under it all there might possibly be fire.
Years later, in the interval between the avocation of solving
certain historical and other puzzles, and that of attacking puzzles
of abnormal psychology, my curiosity was again attracted to those
of psychical research, and I undertook a course of intensive reading
of the literature most suited for the student, the Proceedings of the
S.P.R. After making all deductions that mental self-respect would
276 Dr Walter FranJdin Prince [part
allow, there remained many focal points in the mass of evidence of
one kind and another, for which the only escape from perhaps more
extreme theories of the supernormal was to adopt throughout the
logical technique of Podmore which itself involved a supernormal
theory stretched to the uttermost. Indeed, it seemed as if the lines
between the evidence and his farthest telepathic assumptions were
attenuated to invisibility.
Here active interest again subsided with the coming into con-
sideration of puzzles in abnormal psychology. Then, as late as
1912, it was re-kindled permanently by an incident comparatively
trivial, but which acted, as personal experience often does, as a
precipitant.
I had lately moved three thousand miles to California. No
biographical sketch had preceded or followed my advent in the little
city, no Who's Who or similar work was then available to give facts
regarding my parentage, and to not a soul there had there been any
occasion to allude to such. My wife and I were calling for the first
time, without previous notice, upon a young woman, wife of a. local
business man. I saw a planchette on the table and asked, " Do
you operate that ? " " We have done so a few times," she replied.
" Get anything 1
" " Mainly '
yes '
and '
no '
to questions. And
once we got '
Bill.' " Laughingly I said, " Suppose we try our
luck," and she, who was but languidly interested, and I, put our
hands upon the instrument. She did not cease talking with Mrs
Prince, nor look at the planchette, nor was she, I think, aware
that it was moving until the following words were drawing to a
close: "W.M. Prince. Your father, W. M. Prince." These, W.M.,
were my father's initials, and each of them might have been—of
course not all with equal chance—any one of twenty-five other
letters.
My hand was indeed on the board likewise, but I have never been
able to produce a single automatic jiggle with planchette, ouija or
pencil, usually my added hand stops or impedes the process of
another, and it never has evidenced helping. And, after she became
consciously interested, the lady, with or without me, got nothing
more of interest.
Comparatively a slight thing, but a puzzle, nevertheless. Not
offered as evidence for others, but to me, critically aware of all the
surrounding circumstances, it pointed the way for sustained inquiry.
Since then I have experimented with a multitude of persons. All
but a comparatively few have yielded nothing beyond possible
normal explanation. But these few, separated by a wide gap from
the rest, have been capable of producing, not at all times nor
with all persons, complex groups of correlated statements,
correct or approximately so, under conditions and to a degree
115] Presidential Address 211
not admitting, in my judgment, of any of tlie usual sceptical
explanations.
William James, in his Presidential Address, said that Mrs Piper
was the white crow of his experience. Mrs Soule (" Chenoweth "),
Sra de Z., Mrs King and the singular happenings in my own resi-
dence during many successive months, are the particular " white
crows " of my experience.
Mr Piddington gave his opinion, in a Presidential Address, that
it is impossible for a person to be as much impressed by evidence
in this field furnished by investigators who are, relatively to himself,
foreigners, as by the evidence of compatriots. I go farther, and
assert that it is impossible as yet for anyone to be so much impressed
by evidence furnished by aAy other man as by evidence of similar
cogency arising in the comse of his own experience. This emphasis
upon personal experience may be entirely without, or it may have
some justification. "With persons of untrained or uncritical men-
tality, it may mean nothing more than a deeper tinge of feeling, but
a person of aptitude for and training and experience in critical
investigation, no matter who he is, can never feel quite certain that
another of his own rank has not committed an inadvertence or
neglected a minute precaution, as he is quite confident that in a
particular case, he himself has not done.
Two comparatively brief (and I select them because they are
brief) concrete groups of medmmistic affirmations, occurring in my
own experimentation, would alone be enough to bring me to ap-
proximate certainty that information may be acquired by other
than the means universally recognized. Upon no other critical
person could they exercise an equally compelling force, since no one
else could be as certain as I that there were not inadvertently omitted
from the narrative circumstances which ought to have been taken
into account.
I refer (1) to Mrs King's 34 testable statements while an unseen
object was held between her palms, 33 of which were correct and 1
I partially so, ("Studies in Psychometry," Proc. A.S.P.R. xviii. 204-18),
and (2) Mrs Soule's " Story of Stephen," resurrecting almost in its
entirety and with wealth of detail, an incident of my boyhood
{Leonard and Smile Experiments, B.S.P.R. pp. 334-52). These two
incidents, united with the others contained in two reports alone of
the work of Mrs Soule and Mrs King, done under my eye, are such
that, being satisfied that no normal sources of information were
open, my mind revolts at the supposition that there could be con-
tained such a quantity, a proportion and a quality of coincidence
by chance.
And backed by experimental results in other personal quarters,
and by the ever-growing phalanx of results reported by other
278 Dr Walter Franhlin Prince [part
investigators whose astuteness and special experience are well-
attested, I have slowly, very slowly, been forced to accept types of
supernormal mental plienomena, to the number, in their external
description, of half a dozen. I will not say they are, to me, as
certain as that parallel lines cannot meet, as it appears that doubt
has been cast upon that proposition. But I will say, carefully
measuring my words, that they are to me at least as well established
as is the existence and career, in all its relations, of Socrates.
Mythical characters have been invented and believed in for cen-
turies, as likewise long narratives of purportedly historical but really
imaginary facts. Thus the hypothesis, wild though it be, is yet
conceivable, that Plato and Xenophon conspired to invent Socrates,
biography, personal description, conversations, addresses and all,
sheerly out of imagination, in order to play a huge practical joke
upon the gullible centuries to come, and that later copyists of the
classics, say in the first centuries of our era, aware of the shaky
foundations of the Socrates story, but interested in occultism and
hence in the " voice," altered other classics in copying them, intro-
ducing the casual references to Socrates which we find, and
obliterating denials. This would only be doing on a gigantic scale
and with more extraordinary skill what was actually being done,
likewise with an ethical motive, as witness the forged Gospels and
the interpolations in Josephus. A hypothesis so preposterous as
this I nevertheless find it easier to entertain regarding those facts
of which we have no original manuscript, than I do to apply any
suggested explanation or combination of explanations, and thus
deprive of their supernormal significance, certain complexes of facts
of several of the types to which we have given so long and pains-
taking study.
Some mechanical puzzles I can execute, and know just the
mechanical principles on which the at first apparently impossible
is really possible. But there are others which I have equally solved
as facts, but I yet do not understand the mechanical principles
involved, as a skilled mechanician might. We have an analogy to
this in psychical research, wherein we have established certain
categories of facts, concerning two or three of which we theorize
with more or less confidence, whereas we can as yet only vaguely
conjecture regarding the others.
The Will-to-Believe.
On the American side of the ocean, at least, there has been much
parroting of William James's expression, the will-to-believe, with
the intent of disjjaraging serious studies in psychical research whose
facts the critics knew not how to meet.
115] Presidential Address 279
There should be made a distinction between the will-to-l)elieve
and the will-to-prove. Of course so far as a man has arrived at
any conchision he has the hitter and should have. For him it is
important that the facts rather than the desire have produced the
will-to-prove, lest this be turbulent and unruly. But if it is not, if
its current is proportional to the cogency of the facts, then it is
quite irrelevant to the reader whether the author at any stage was
possessed by the will-to-believe or not. If the original material is
guaranteed (stenographically reported, et al.) then all the damage a
will-to-believe is capable of is in vitiating the interpretation of and
argument from the facts, so far as these are ventured. But the
basic material being guaranteed, to the extent that its interpreta-
tion and the argument thence emerging are valid, they are their
own vindication. All peeping behind the scenes to discover a will-
to-believe is silly.
Darwin while for many years gathering and examining facts
gradually saw his grand hypothesis rise and shape itself as the
procession of facts directed. More and more conviction grew in the
essential validity of his hypothetical scheme. At length he had the
will-to-prove which found expression in The Origin of Species. But
to the reader all that is important is whether his record of facts is
true and, granting that, whether his interpretation of the facts and
his general syiithetic conclusion are convincing. Probably no
reader in the seventy years since that book was issued ever troubled
himself with the question whether Darwin had the will-to-believe.
One sees in a moment, should the question be put, that it is irre-
levant and inane. Such an imputation is flung only at the authors
of studies in psychical research, and it has the value solely of an
epithet or a sneer.
But of course there is such a thing as a mischievous will-to-
believe, which leads to careless credulity, as there is a fanatical
will-to-prove which leads to intellectual dishonesty. How shall one
protect himself from the taint of either 1 Every intellectual
operation is accompanied by emotion, and if to be devoid of emotion
is a prerequisite, no scientific work is possible. The only way by
which the emotion may be made iimocuous, is by accustoming one-
self not to associate it wdth the outcome of a process but with the
process itself. It is the difference between a conscious or sub-
conscious " I ho2)e that this (or that) is coming out " and " I wonder
what is coming out." Exactly as an assayist presumably tests a
mineral specimen brought in by a cUent, or a chemist analyzes a
blood stain in connection with a criminal trial. I do not declare
that anyone can perfectly achieve this detachment, but think that
many are so constituted that by practice they can approximate the
mental habit of expending their emotion in the mere determination
280 Dr Wcdter FranJdin Prince [part
of the facts and tlieir relations, and of not caring before a particular
case is in the last stages of the process of investigation whether a
particular possible hypothesis will be confirmed or negatived.
Psychical Research De'mands Intellechtal Rectitude.
All scientific investigation demands aloofness from every ex-
traneous consideration. But the psychical researcher above all
others needs aloofness, devotion to truth, and moral courage. He
is subjected to temptations as no other type of investigator is to
any such degree, to inner urges, to outer pushes and pulls. The
chemist, the biologist, the physicist is subject to no appeal to regard
his subject matter emotionally, but there have been psychical
researchers who imdoubtedly have been influenced by liking, and
possibly some by disliking, for the human subject. The desire to
please a clientele inevitably spells a greater or less scientific dam-
nation. The psychical researcher must, in this relation, disregard
motives of fame, fortune, and favour, and put by his very hopes of
Heaven, that his intellect may function undisturbed. Perhaps it is
not needful for all investigators to go quite so far, but there is need
of those who can and will do it.
When a particular field or class of phenomena is under investi-
gation, and until its facts are independently determined, they should
be dealt with exclusively, and no considerations brought in from
another field of facts or claims which are themselves debatable
or which show no immediate connection with the facts under
inspection.
This is plainly seen when I refer to a religious sect in America
which holds that the Bible teaches that all men at death are virtually
annihilated until the Day of Resurrection. Viewed through the
medium of such a dogma no evidence of survival could make an
impression upon a man who holds it and will not for the time being
lay it aside. Such has been the effect in past generations of making
the Bible a text-book of astronomy, geology, and biology. Every
book of a past period which has professed to discuss a science, and
instead of viewing it in the light of its own facts has done so through
the medirmi of extraneous dogmas or sacred texts perhaps egregi-
ously misinterpreted is amusing reading to-day, to most religious as
well as to secular minds.
But so must religion, ethics, every extraneous consideration, be
left aside, when one is engaged in an assay of current phenomena.
This sounds cold-blooded, and a religious person might think it a
counsel of evil. It is not ; whoever doubts that any and every field
of phenomena, when viewed solely in the light of its own evidence,
will eventually yield truth in harmony with truths derived from
115] Presidential Address 281
other fields—lie it is who is the infidel, who doubts the miity of the
universe.
The vitiating effects of bias, of a desire to reach a foreseen end,
is illustrated perhaps nowhere more clearly than in biographies.
Formerly the most of them were panegyrics that were silent about
Cromwell's wart, and corrected Washington's occasional bad spell-
ing and too vigorous language. Of late may of them specialize in
warts and peccadilloes, and the last state is worse than the first.
It was your Boswell who first in the history of mankind, so far as
I know, enunciated clearly the true norm of biography, and magni-
ficently illustrated it in his Life of Johnson. He told the truth about
the man he admired, the truth in all its parts and varieties and
proportions. He was almost the discoverer of scientific biography,
and for this he deserves honour more than his detractor Macaulay,
for all the splendour of that political poem, the History of England.
And what was the result of Boswell's discovery that it was be.st to
tell the truth throughout? That Johnson is one of the best known
and best loved characters in English history, and that a whole group
of figures grouped about Johnson stand out as in a spot light.
It seems elementary to say that it is always best to tell the truth.
But this is not always the sole goal even in scientific investigation.
As Jared Sparks, old-time president of Harvard^, thought it would
not do to let the public know how human Washington was (and so
made him an imloveable graven image), as some pious folk would
balk the freedom of investigation lest it injure religion, so some
investigators pass by, cover up or cast on the ash heap the residual
scraps which annoy them. It is said, as you know, that when a
certain European announced his beautifully roimded theory and
was told that some facts were adverse to it, he replied, " So much the
worse for the facts." But do you remember that following the
death of a well-knov/n psychical researcher, not of your land, one
of his friends remarked in print, in substance, that he did not allow
such a thing as a little contrary fact to disturb him 1 There were
printed an epochal report and discussion of a case of dissociation,
but certain facts which puzzled and nauseated the psychologist
whom we all honour were entirely omitted. Probably he thought
he was doing right, that printing these unpleasant facts would foster
superstition. But it was not right nor was it truly scientific—the
facts should be told though the heavens fall. Perhaps one of the
keys to the interpretation was thrown away. Perhaps something
which harmonized with a factor of the Sanders Case, the Fancher
Case, the Doris Case, and the Mary Barnes Case, or with a puzzling
factor in some other group of cases, has been lost, whereas such data
are obtained all too rarely. No man of science any more than any
biographer, may rightfully quarrel with his facts or select certain
282 Dr Walter Franklin Prince [part
classes for exhibition and other classes for concealment, according
to his taste.
Dr Sadler is deserving of honour when in his book The Mind at
Mischief, in the midst of his warnings relating to fraud, delusion,
hallucination, illusion, etc., and his recital of cases which he found it
possible to explain by the principle of psychology, we find him
repeatedly saying, "But see Appendix." And we find that there
he reveals the fact that out of a hundred cases he has found one
which he has long studied and which does not yield to such a
solution. I parenthetically remark that I doubt if, had I not
exceptional opportunities for hearing of promising human subjects,
more than one in a hundred which I have met would have seemed
compellingly to demand some supernormal solution. But the point
here is that by telling the whole truth, Dr Sadler made his book a
well-balanced one ; not only did it warn against falling into the
one ditch of credulity, but it did not drive into the other of un-
reasoning incredulity.
Psychical Researches Ranked with the Historical Sciences.
By at least two Presidents you have been told that so far the
methods of psychical research are those of historical research plus
those of the courts, rather than those of physics and chemistry.
As one who has built two or three small bricks into the edifice of
history, and is aware what painstaking and critical processes may
be applied to the task of determining historical facts, I am not sure
that this leaves psychical research in an entirely lamentable state.
The facts, for example, of Nelson's life were not of a nature to be
established in a la,boratory, but that he was an admiral of the
English navy, that he was in command at the naval battle of
Trafalgar, that he won the battle, that thus Napoleon's plans were
shattered, that Nelson was killed in the battle, etc., are, I take it,
as little subject to doubt as the facts of chemistry and physics.
There is bad history as there is bad science. For a long time it
was believed that the first criminal code of Virginia was an impor-
tation by one of its governors of the code governing his army when
he was in the service of Holland. This was as erroneous as the
history of phlogiston, which was likewise long believed. Science
had to wait until certain methods had been improved and certain
intermediate discoveries made before the true nature of combustion
could be determined. History had to wait, perhaps, until certain
critical methods of approach had come to command before the
theory of the origin of the Virginia Code could be shown false. At
length the martial code of the English army in Holland was trans-
lated and foTind utterly incongruous with the claim. Then there
115] Presidential Address 283
was made a laborious examination of various proclamations posted
in Jamestowi in consequence of emergencies which arose in the
community life of the colony, and time sequences and verbal
identities were so constant and consistent that there remained no
doubt how many articles of the code did in fact originate. Tech-
nically the law of inverse squares may have a better standing, or
various uniformities which exist in the phenomena of electricity
and can be exhibited by experiment anew any day, but practically
a great range of historical as well as of scientific facts are certain.
Perhaps mathematically one of the fixed stars is more inaccessible
to our bodily presence than is the planet Mars, but we are entirely
convinced that we shall spend a vacation on neither.
In a very valid sense, too, we can repeat experiments in historical
investigation. The original experiment was to apply the various
critical tests, say, to the original and validitated documents and by
that process to reach certain conclusions. The documents are
materials as fully as are substances in a crucible or retort. And
thereafter, any qualified person may go to those documents and
repeat the experiment and, if the first conclusion was correct, he
will probably reach the same conclusion.
It may be said that what I choose to call historical science as
contrasted with mere amateur scribbling about history, while it
can, where its materials are adequate, fix the outstanding or surface
facts, when it tries to trace their ultimate reasons which are to be
found in the souls and half-concealed machinations of men, becomes
uncertain and utters conflicting opinions. But are not the natural
sciences in a similar situationf Do any of their experts expect,
any more than Newton expected, to reach the very bottom of the
riddles of nature and in their ultimate speculations do they not also
express opinions at variance with each other ? Of course, even
when the extant materials have been abimdant, historical scholars
have erred even in their major conclusions. Then it is the business
of other investigators to repeat the process by more careful methods
and correct the mistake. Exactly this is a frequent episode in the
history of the natu-ral sciences. Dr Bastian, for example, instituted
a series of experiments in heating certain infusions arid sealing them
as he supposed from the air, and he annoimced that life had ap-
peared and that he had demonstrated abiogenesis. Then Huxley
repeated the experiments, taking more pains to exclude the air, and
no life appeared.
But more than this. Certain of the natural sciences escape in
part or entirely from the laboratory, do not repeat their phenomena
before a class, have to be studied by what may be called field work,
in the spots where their exhibits happen to be found. This is true,
particularly of geology, which is what may be called an historical
284 Dr Walter Franklin Prince [part
science. There are in geology, and, for that matter, in anthro-
pology, all sorts of possibilities of getting temporarily astray in
by-paths, and donbtless never can these sciences become as tech-
nically exact as chemistry and physics, but does any intelligent and
cultured man doubt that we are making solid progress in tracing
the history of the planet and of the human race 1
By this time the analogy to psychica,! research has become
noticeable. We also have to go to places, that is in human ex-
perience, where the phenomena are found, and geologists and
anthropologists have to argue from their discovered facts much as
we do from ours.
Of course the exhibits of geology and anthropology, being
material, are visible, and many of them may be seen in museums,
whereas most psychical exhibits, being mental, are not tangible, and
continue to exist only as records. This is a disadvantage, but taking
into consideration the centi;ries to come psychical research has its
advantage. The available exhibits or visible evidences of say
geology, although immense, are yet limited, whereas in the centuries
to come the exhibits of psychical research, so far as they are genuine,
will repeat themselves in all their species indefinitely, here and there,
even though we may never be able to tell in advance just when and
where they may come, and the evidence will continue to pile up
until the facts become as incontestable as the major facts of history.
Volcanic eru]3tions are also generally temporary, and the evidence
of volcanology is largely in the form of personal testimonies and
records. And if volcanic eruptions can sometimes be foretold, this
is not true of the fall of aerolites. Very few if any scientific men
have ever seen one fall, and the where and when of their falling
cannot be controlled.
Dr Schiller remarked, in his Presidential Address, that the modern
mind tends to hold that "Historical evidence never suffices to
establish scientific truth." Very well, and two pages earlier he
truly told us that "the visions of Jeanne d'Arc, for example,
decisively checked the English conquest of France, and force us
to choose between a recognition of their supernormality and the
alternative that '
delusions ' may be the really important and
dynamic forces in human life." There is no lack of certainty that
Jeanne d'Arc did have these subjective experiences and that they
did influence Jeanne to certain acts whereby the tide of English
conquest was turned back. This evidence is purely historical, it
is not a part of established scientific truth, it is only truth, as well
as established in the convictions of mankind as any truth of the
laboratory can possibly be. It should be added that Dr 8chiller :
stated that he did not entirely agree with the dictum which he
quoted.
115] Presidential Address 285
Facts and Hypotheses.
A friend of mine and of psychical research remarked that the
mere collection of facts is not science, although a preliminary step
to it, and that science begins with the formation of a hypothesis.
And he said that it would not be science to set down, " Last night
I saw the moon," and morning after morning to repeat the record,
" I saw the moon last night."
We can all agree that to go no further than that would not be
science. And practically that, with few exceptions, is all which had
been done in relation to our field of phenomena, up to 1882. There
had been the telling of wonder-tales, little more. Examine any of
the periodicals devoted to psychical phenomena and issued prior to
the date specified, and see how many of the reports of incidents and
experiments carry with them any satisfactory guarantee of validity.
But the collection of facts coupled with testing of the facts, the
evidence of their validity, the analysis of the facts, the classification
of the facts, and the determination of the relations of the facts and
the conditions imder which the facts occiu", are a very large and
essential part of the scientific process, and that is what we have been
chiefly engaged in for many years.
What, is not the discovery of a new planet science ? Is not the
determination that it is a planet and not a mere comet science ?
Was not the marshalling of myriads of facts by Darwin to evidence
his theory a part of his scientific work not to be set apart from the
theory itself 1 Were not the laborious and ingenious analysis of
pitchblende by the Curies, the discovery of radiiim, the determina-
tion of its properties and its relations to other elements science ?
Yet all these are facts, and the work done in bringing them to
light is analogous to that which we are doing in a very different
field.
There is a very great difference between the facts which still,
after nearly half a century of collecting, psychical research continues
to collect and repeating over and over, " Last night I saw a moon."
No one, scientist or yokel, denies or doubts that there is a moon.
But our facts are still doubted and still denied. Who will have
patience to consider our hypotheses, so long as they discredit the
facts for which the hypotheses are framed 'i There is no way to
convince the scientific world of the facts except by multiplying them
and increasing the cogency of the proof and the number of competent
attestants.
Furthermore we do not simply reiterate facts of precisely the
same description. From time to time we note in some new case of
the same kind as often reported before a peculiarity which we had
not before observed or which had not been so strikingly exhibited,
286 Dr Walter Franklin Prince [part
some indication which, taken with others previously noted, has its
bearings upon the hypotheses which we are seeking.
For ages men said " I saw the moon last night " before they came
to know anything valid regarding it. The time came with the in-
vention of the telescope when they really began to see it. And
seeing it then a dozen or a hundred times did not exhaust the
possibilities of the extension of knowledge by seeing, for seeing it in
various aspects, and the continued study of what was seen, with the
aid of wondrous scientific processes, still continued productive.
With better and better telescopes, more is seen ;
by the aid of
photography still more fruitful is the seeing.
The sim has been seen by all men day after day from the dawn
of time, but still astronomers travel thousands of miles to see it just
before, during, and just after eclipse, and still they are unsatisfied,
for they continue to see and discover facts which are new or to
strengthen facts which were uncertain.
So it is in psychical research. From time to time there is recorded
an instance of a type of phenomena, which is unusually suggestive
of the process which lies behind so that, as in other species of inquiry,
there is always the zest of the unexpected addition of new light on
often-repeated facts of the same species.
I note a tendency on the part of some who have pursued psy-
chical research and some in other fields of investigation to think it
requisite to form a " working hypothesis," symmetrically outlined
as a lay figure, very early in the process of the collection of facts.
The danger of that, as it seems to me, is that the investigator may get
so attached to his hypothesis as, unconsciously, to cultivate a special
mental vision which will colour the facts. An analogous case is that
of Professor Berringer who, shown forged fossils differing but
slightly from types with which he was familiar, did not take into
consideration any hypothesis except that the story of their being
dug up in situ was correct and was thereafter led along by slow degrees
to credit wider and wider departures rmtil it reached the shores of
absurdity.
I have known of more than one stidden awakening from a hypo-
thesis dream, like the rude awakening of Berringer, in the field of
psychical research.
Especially where the facts are elusive, obscure, and problematical
almost beyond comparison, it appears to me better to put off for a
long time the confident espousal of any hypothesis, but to keep all
possible hypotheses constantly in mind, and to pursue the ledger
method of crediting and debiting to each as the facts seem to
warrant. Many items may have to be put down as equally favour-
ing two or more hypotheses at the same time.
I by no means intimate that there is no category of facts in
115] Presidential Address 287
psychical research in relation to which it is not now expedient to
frame and urge a hyi^othesis. I should say that the time had not
come for this in what is called psychometry, but that it is not too
early for the telepathic and spiritistic theories to be urged against
each other in relation to mediumistic " messages." The very fact
that there are these two opposing hypotheses, that psychical re-
searchers are not agreed in their theories of causation, has been
pointed to as a reproach.
Psychology is hardly situated so as to rejDroach us with dignity.
The psychological concepts of a Bergson or a McDougall are in
sharp conflict with those of a Watson, to whom psychology is little
more than dynamic physiology, a system of conditioned physical
reflexes. And the methods run all the way from that which em-
phasizes the value of analytical introspection to that which denies
that there is any value whatever to introspection. Physical science
might indeed cry " A plague o' both your houses," but on second
thoughts blush to do so, since its history contains many a chapter
of conflict, and in some quarters the smoke of battle has hardly yet
lifted.
It should remember that the two-fluid theory, the one-fluid theory,
and other theories of electricity were fought over for a century and
a quarter, imtil Maxwell turned them all out of doors. It should
remember that for ages " the doctrine that nature abhors a vacuum "
was a part of the scientific gospel, until the discovery with its
momentous consequence that the " abhorrence " ceases at a certain
height. It would do well not to forget its old theory of
" phlogiston " which reigned from Becker in 1680 until Romford
announced his molecular theory of heat in 1798, and did not receive
its final quietus xmvA Joule's researches forty years later. Even in
relation to evolution Dr Nabours has lately said :
" We are still in a
morass, it may as well be admitted, with regard to the ultimate
jjroblems." All we have is " a rough path, a sort of crude track in
the jungle."
With or without this becoming example, psychical research can
afford to be very modest. It is true that it has but obscurely
begun to trace some paths in the perplexing region which it is trying
to explore, and that not all its searchers are agreed that these are
the right ones. What else could be expected, when another " his-
torical " science, after more years and the labours of a hundred times
the number of investigators, must speak with such restraint of its
attainments.
A Plea for Sweetness.
Where persons dift'er in regard to facts or interpretation of facts
it is a pity that their exchange of views is not always carried on
288 Dr Waller Franklin Prince [part
with the calmness and good temper which befits academic dis-
cussion. I do not propose to give any instances nor do I propose
to construct any diagrams of " rows " and " friction " between
particular persons, as was attempted b}^ one of my friends. In the
first place, I do not think this a measure calculated to lessen the
evil, and in the second place his effort would not encourage me to
think I could make an accurate survey of two continents. To my
surjjrise I found by his graphic chart that I was supposed to be in
conflict with my friend himself and that I was also set down as being
in a " row " relation to a man with whom I had never conversed or
corresponded, and of whom I never had made mention in any
of my writings, in my life.
But it is a matter of history for the last eighty years, that investi-
gators in this field, particularly those of a cautious and conservative
type, have been frequently assailed in most bitter fashion by a
criticism which professes to penetrate their very souls, and dis-
cover therein various malignancies and moral delinquencies. Such
was the treatment of Agassiz sixty years ago, and how many other
instances coidd be given ! In fact, it would be hard to find cases
of scientific men of standing who, having consented to take part in
a psychical investigation, and having failed to reach conviction,
have not been attacked with ridicule and personal imputation.
The impolicy of such a course should have been evident all along.
Without doubt, it is eminently desirable that such men should be
induced to pay attention to psychical facts, so far as their other
duties permit, not for an hour or a week, but for years. But when
one is charged with moral obliquity and intellectual crime of which
he does not feel guilty, and held up as an object of scorn, is it any
wonder if there is added to his initial doubts a personal distaste, so
that he can never again be induced to interest himself in the subject ?
I doubt not that progress has been greatly deterred by such re-
actions which, if they were not otherwise objectionable, would at
least be short-sighted and impolitic.
I have always admired the degree to which the officers and
investigators of the S.P.R. have kept discussion upon a calm,
judicial, intellectual plane. Not only have all its Presidents, when
they had occasion to refer to species of phenomena which had not
yielded to the Society's investigations very satisfactory results,
urged that the investigation of these species should go on; not only,
in reporting such a case, has there seldom been lacking great care
to give due weight to all supernormal possibilities in connection
with doubtfxil phenomena ; but when representatives of the
Society have been fallen upon as though they constituted the
Guy Fawkes gang of Psychical Research, caught plotting to blow
up the whole edifice, they have still kept their tempers, controlled
115] Presidential Address 289
their pens, and replied in the terms of reasoning and not those
of emotion.
And since I deem it a duty to set forth my views as to the com-
parative evidential status to-day of physical and mental phenomena,
and some of the measures which seem to me desirable to adopt in
the future survey of both fields, I trust that all who hear or read
what is to come will at least credit me with sincerity, and that if
any discover errors of statement, they will convince me by the only
effective means, logic and evidence. It ought to be quite possible
for one honest investigator, whichever side of a question he espouses,
to listen to the differing views of another honest investigator,
with perfect equanimity.
Physical PJi enomena.
In view of the facts that (o) between persons generically known
as psychical researchers difference of opinion exists on a wider scale
in relation to physical than to mental phenomena, some going to the
extreme of disbelieving that any genuine examples of any type of
the former exist, while at the other extreme some maintain that
I there have been many genuine examples of several types; {h) this
disparity of opinion leads to unpleasant reflections, belief being
explained as due to insufficient experience of a special kind, sensory
deception, the beguilements of the art of magic, etc., and disbelief
imputed to obstinate prejudice, the baleful effects upon the pheno-
mena of inward opposition, etc. ;
(c) although organized attention
of one sort or another has been paid to physical phenomena for
I
eighty years, and although some varieties of manifestation have
almost disappeared, others have arisen to take their places, and
settlement of the original question is as far off as ever ;
and, most
to be emphasized [d), the disgust engendered in the minds of a host
of scientific and intelligent people by the numerous scandals of
spurious physical phenomena, which have been frequent for eighty
years and continue to this day, illogically but naturally extends also
to mental phenomena and goes largely to explain inattention to
and inability to appreciate at its true value the evidence for the
supernormality of certain mental phenomena, therefore : (f ) It is
supremely desirable that there should be a speedy settlement of
the question whether there are genuine physical phenonena, and,
if so, of what types and descriptions.
In view of the facts that, («) in general, the phenomena referred
to are concerned with tangible objects and their movements, either
the purported production of supernormal substances, variously
characterized, and their supernormal movements, or the super-
norr^'^l movements of normal objects, and (6) these phenomena are
290 Dr Walter Franldin Prince [part
capable of being repeated indefinitely, if not in all experiments, at
least in a large proportion of tliem :
(2) theoretically the deter-
mination whether a given type is genuine should be a matter of
comparative ease, not requiring a very long period of experimen-
tation. There must be some factor in this which makes it differ
from every other sort of physical experimentation.
In view of the facts that in other fields of physical investigation
the experimenter (a) has the full use of his hands, here not, [h) has
the benefit of the full use of his eyesight, is here wholly or partly
deprived of it, (c) has his sense of hearing unblocked, here frequently
more or less blocked, [d) the exceptions to the above rules being
wholly subject to the will, not of the experimenter but of the subject
or the subject's alleged spirit control, and (e) is free to employ all
suitable instruments and processes when and as seems best, but here
is utterly denied them, limited in the scope of using them or dictated
to as to the moment when they may be employed :
(3) it is fair to
conclude that the inability to make visible progress toward a
rapprochonent where theoretically this should be easiest, is due
to the senses being more or less blocked, and the means which science
and common-sense suggest more or less denied, as is the case in no
other department whatever of physical investigation, and to the
doubts inevitably arising relative to the possibilities of sensory
deception and the arts of conjuring. And it is well known that
these disabilities and inhibitions are imposed on the ground of a
set of alleged psychic laws. It would be rash to deny, antecedently,
that any of these asserted laws is not a valid one.
But, in view of the facts that («) to a marked degree in general
and particular, the alleged psychic laws of physical phenomena
correspond with the precautions which would be necessary to pro-
tect imposition, (b) many of them were first promulgated in connec-
nection with old-time mediums who afterwards became notorious
through exposure, (c) certain once confidently asserted psychic laws
have been discarded (e.g. the one declared by Thomas R. Hazard of
America and adopted by Alfred R. Wallace and others in England,
according to which, when a spirit is grasped, the medium is drawn
" swift as lightning " through bonds and bars, to " coalesce " with
the spirit, thus accounting for the medium's being found in the
hands of the grabber) ;
(d) the alleged laws show an occasional
singular mutability (as where in general the phenomena bear the
human eye but not white light, whereas in certain cases the pheno-
mena can bear white light but not the human eye) ;
(e) some alleged
psychic laws affront common-sense (as that a mysterious substance
capable of overturning furniture and administering blows to experi-
menters may not be touched, apart from warning and directions as
to time, place, and manner, with the tip of an investigator's finger
115] Presidential Address 291
lest it sufier damage) ; (/) yet some particular friend of tlie suliject
may violate a psychic law (as by turning on a light without per-
mission) and. no disaster such as others are warned against follow;
{g) although for eighty years obedience to the psychic laws has been
enjoined on the ground that infractions would endanger the subject's
I health or even life, there are records of hundreds of infractions, even
to the extent of purported spirits being violently seized by suspicious
Spiritualists and a fight ensuing, and not one case of death is
i recorded, nor is there in any case of indubitable evidence of damage,
given by a calm observer, amounting to more than a nose-bleed or
a bruise inflicted in a fray : (4) it is very doubtful if some of the
alleged laws relating to physical phenomena are valid, and there is
as yet no certainty that any of them are.
(5) If there are genuine physical phenomena, ectoplasm,
! materialization of full or partial human forms and the like, it is of
course very much to be desired that they should be proved as
physical entities, to the satisfaction of the most cautious. But, it
is to be feared, this cannot be until investigation is freed from its
bondage to mere dogmatic assertions which give no proof of their
validity. That freedom, if achieved, must be won by the efforts of
persons already convinced, for to no others will the subjects give
heed. Let me suggest, in no unkindly spirit, to advocates that
chiding those unconvinced by physical phenomena or certain types
thereof, and ascribing to them a malevolent disposition, have never
yet coiivinced any of them, and that it were far better, if they have
missed the truth, to clear away some of the obstructions on the path
to it. By way of examples, I further suggest:
[a) That they undertake to test the alleged psychic laws, as is
done in every other department of physical inquiry, rather than to
take them for granted. For instance, it might Vv^ell be, as is often
alleged, that psychic structures cannot, any more than photographic
plates, bear white light. But the photographer will dero.onstrate
this to your satisfaction, so here the parallel breaks. And the law
in the case of photography is consistent and unvarying, whereas the
alleged law on physical phenomena apparently breaks down in^
presence of the fact that photographs, when the word is given, may
be taken of alleged materializations and ectoplasmic structures by a
blinding flashlight, without any resultant disaster. It is time to test
whether a gentle beam of light directed by the experimenter at
moments when it would be of most advantage,[would really do harm
to anything besides imposition.
Study should be given to the question why'certain allegedjpsychic
laws do not act with any uniformity, as^a scientist would certainly
give if he foiuid that in certain places the magnet does not attract
iron, and that in the laboratory of chemist A hydrochloric acid shows
292 Dr Walter Franklin Prince [part
no affinity for lime as it lias shown in the laboratories of chemists
B, C, and D. In short the whole matter of psychic laws supposed
to govern physical phenomena should be carefully studied, with a
view of the retention of those only which are of demonstrated
validity, that investigation in this field may haply be brought nearer
to parity with the field of mental phenomena, wherein, with all our
best subjects, investigation is carried on absolutely untrammelled
by alleged psychic laws.
(6) Advocates should cease to lend their assent to the dogma that
inward doubt, or even disbelief on the part of an amiable and
acquiescent investigator, has the effect of preventing phenomena.
This is the mere remnant of an old dogma, now discarded, that
suspicion, although based on observed facts, actually summons bad
spirits to bring along with them deceptive paraphernalia. The
remnant of the superstitious doctrine should be repudiated, especi-
ally as it has been thoroughly disproved. Phenomena are not
inhibited by the presence of doubters and disbelievers whose identity
is not known or whose doubt or disbelief is not known ;
only where
they or their suspicions are known is there sometimes an inhibitive
effect, quite susceptible of a normal explanation.
(f) Advocates should insist that when, in a given case, a pheno-
menon, whether by happy discovery or inadvertence, occurs in a
state of improved conditions, as in the daylight experimentation for
that phenomenon, investigation should continue under these con-
ditions which promise to lead to a speedy determination, and not
revert to worse ones imder excuse of a psychic law already violated
with impunity. Exactly this sort of thing has often taken place,
experimenters smothering their intelligence and acquiescing.
{d) When there exists some simpler but surer instrument or means
of testing a physical phenomenon than that in use, and one which
manifestly lays no greater burden upon the subject, advocates
should not tolerate refusal to allow its use, simply on the statement
that the " Control " does not want it, or at least should not maintain
silence in regard to the sinister appearance of such refusal.
(e) Advocates should frown upon the doctrine which has foimd
adherents in their ranks, that it is rather to be expected that physical
mediums should sometimes practise fraud. No such doctrine
attaches to mental mediums on whose residts we lay weight, and,
although we do not make their bona fides a part of our evidence,
such a doctrine would seriously handicap the credit of our reports.
It should be impressed iipon the consciousness of physical mediums,
made to sink into their subconscious, and enjoined on their alleged
spirit controls, that any such instances of imposition must inevitably
affect the credit of valid instances, suggesting that in them the
imposition has merely been successful.
116] Presidential Address 293
(/) Advocates should discoinitenance the all Init imiversal prac-
tice of excluding from investigating groups persons whose conduct
has been unexceptionable, save that they have given expression to
doubt as to the validity of the phenomena. What would be thought
of a parallel course pursued by a physicist who claimed to have
discovered a revolutionary process or to have invented an apparatus
revealing a hitherto unknown property of matter ! What a method
of convincing an honestly unconvinced man ! Is truth afraid, and
must it shield itself from the most searching inquisition ?
[g) Advocates should resist any further encroachments upon the
liberty of thought, as by a rule that statements of facts made by an
experimenter and recorded at the moment of observation shall be
sacred against after-revision. Imiumerable instances have demon-
strated that a sitter may honestly make a declaration of fact and
afterwards discover that the fact was quite otherwise.
I It is to advocates, that is persons already convinced of physical
phenomena, whether now present or who shall hereafter read these
words, that I venture to make these respectful sample suggestions,
since known advocates are in the most favourable position to give
the suggestions, or the approved among them, effect. If some in-
vestigators have reached the goal of revolutionary truths in this
quarter, it is by following the lines of such suggestions that the
truths can best be brought home to their less fortunate fellows.
I trust that no one will read into the above rather lengthy passage
on the thorny subject of physical phenomena, any spirit or temper
which was not present in the writing of it. After a former address
before this Society, reporting the unsatisfactory results of a series
of experiments, a gentleman referred to what he called my " sar-
casm." I was appalled, and protested that I had studied to employ
the terms consistent with the facts least calculated to give offence,
had never used the word " fraud " in relation to the persons with
whom I had had unfortunate results, had employed euphemisms like
" normal causation." Here he interrupted me and said, " That is
what made it so funny." But what is a poor man to do ? And so
I hope that nothing I have said has seemed like sarcasm or covert
attack, but that I shall be visualized as bearing a very large olive
branch, and heard as expressing very real difficulties which I would
fain see removed. For, I repeat, it is useless to disguise the fact
that physical phenomena can never be established in the minds of
thinking men generally, until the shackles are taken off from in-
vestigation, and experimenters are permitted, without hostile
criticism for so doing, to pursue their inquiries untrammelled either
by dicta laid down in advance of an experiment, or prohibitions
enjoined in the course of it. It will be said that for the investigators
to arrange conditions will prevent phenomena. Very well, ex-
294 Dr Walter Franldioi Prince [part
perieuce will soon teach tliem what the necessary conditions are,
whereas dogmas can onlj^ prolong doubt. I quote the true words of
Sir Oliver Lodge, in his Presidential Address of 1902 :
" Full control
must be allowed to the observers—a thing which conjurors never
really allow. I have never seen a silent and genuinely-controlled
conjuror ; and in so far as mediums find it necessary to insist on
their own conditions, so far they must be content to be treated as
conjurors." 1 regret to add that, whatever the experience of others,
I have had the good fortune but once to be present when investi-
gators of mediimiistic physical phenomena were untrammelled
throughout, and that in this instance the results were entirely
disastrous to the claims advanced.
Alleged Phenomena of Nondescript Character.
By " nondescript " is meant that the alleged phenomena do not
easily classify as either mental or physical. I refer to such as the
following :
1. Astrology, a complicated set of assumptions come down from
remote antiquity as to the relations between movements, and loca-
tions at given moments, of the heavenly bodies, on the one hand,
and the characteristics of a person and the events of his life, on the
other. Utterly devoid as it seems to be of any rationale, yet
psychical research would be obliged to accept it, if the facts proved
compulsive. I myself, at the risk of appearing ridicialous even to
my colleagues, have for fourteen years held my archives open for
astrological evidence, and have collected many exhibits of what was
offered as evidence by supposed experts. In 1895 Mr F. W. H.
Myers remarked "I do not know on what evidence this belief is
based." In 1930 your speaker knows of no evidence which is not
the resixlt either of a forced application of the rules to human careers
already known, or of a careful culling of "hits " from preponder-
ating nimibers of " misses." I do not think that any psychical
researcher in forty-eight years has given attention to the claims of
astrology and has not definitely cast the pretended science on the
dust heap.
2. Palmistry, another set of irrational assumptions rooted in the
hoary past, to the effect that a relation exists between the lines,
protuberances, etc., of a person's hand, and the characteristics and
experiences of that person. Like astrology, these assumptions are
more or less accepted to-day by many thousands in many lands.
Mr Myers in 1895 also said, in relation thereto, " 1 have seen no
evidence of any value." Nor is there, I believe, an investigator of
standing in the forty- eight years of psychical research, who has been,
like myself, quixotically good-natured enough to solicit evidence for
115] Presidential Address 295
claims so absurd, and who has been more successful than Mr Myers,
or who has failed to assign palmistry to the ash-pile.
3. Numerology, a modern and protean species of Cabala, which
holds that the letters of which a person's name is composed exert
a profound influence over his character and his course of life. Like
I
astrology, this has a department devoted to it in a number of occult
periodicals, and is advertised in many Spiritualist ones, hence must
be credited by a large number of credulous people. I do not
I
remember that any psychical researcher of whatever grade has ever
said a word in its favour, nor do I believe that there is one who
could not, in one hour of application of its pretended principles,
blast its claims.
A query is in order. If, as some insinuate, there is no real
evidence for the validity of phenomena which have convinced a
great many of our investigators, and that what seems such is trans-
figured by the will-to-believe, then why has none of them accepted
astrology, palmistry, or numerology, also I
And a remark. Possibly psychical research has not done its full
duty toward an undiscriminating section of the public, by the way
of showing not only that these and other occult beliefs lack rational
basis, but also by the exhibition of tests proving that they do not
work out in practice.
Mental Phenoniena.
For nearly a half a century this Society (to confine our attention
to it for the moment) has been trying out claims to the acquisition
of knowledge by supernormal means, i.e. apart from the recognized
senses, more generally though apparently not always when the
human subject is in a more or less dissociated state of mentality
(abstraction, trance, dream), and with or without physical instru-
mentalities, as a writing implement, a scrying ball, an unknown
object held in the hands, or a dowsing rod. There were not wanting
at any time investigators who were ready to smash these claims as
those of astrology or palmistry. It was no doubt confidently ex-
pected by many onlookers that when such minds as became enlisted
got to work upon these problems there would be a speedy smashing
of them all. That none of the types of claims which I have in mind
has been smashed is in itself a momentous fact. It is profoundly
impressive considering that neither darkness nor any other em-
barrassing condition is demanded by these mental phenomena, and
inquirers are at liberty to employ every means of investigation that
common-sense and science suggest.
More than this, there have been no scandals in connection with
any of the cases of this description which the Society has published
296 Dr Walter Franldin Prince [part
as evidence, or with, any of the persons upon whose work they were
built, unless possibly once or twice in the first stage of telepathic
experiment. Not one of the dozen or more chief psychics whose
names are best remembered from your reports has ever been "ex-
posed," and, so far as I know, not one has ever been assailed by any
attempted evidence of intentional deception. The same can be
said of every medium for mental phenomena in America whose
work Dr Hyslop or his successor presented as evidence.
Still further, so far are Ave from explaining away those asserted
types of phenomena that we have brought some of them far on the
way to factual establishment. Probably all of our workers are and
have for years been convinced that telepathy is a fact, although
one only rarely capable of brilliant demonstration. Some of these
workers have not personally dealt with certain types, as for instance,
psychometry, and might be hesitant in regard to them, while those
who have had much experience Avith the same are generally agreed
that they present unassailable evidence of the supernormal. We
are not all agreed in theory as to mediumistic deliverances, some
holding that in them is found sufficient evidence for communication
from the dead, while others think it better to explain by a very
comprehensive and agile telepathy. But it is hard indeed to find
a person who has really given long and patient attention to the
study of mediumistic work of the highest class and who thinks that
the facts can be explained by normal knowledge or chance coinci-
dence. The claims that some coincidences of thinking between two
or more persons, some mediumistic " commimications," some
dreams, some ajiparitions and other hallucinatory impressions, some
psychometry, some previsions and predictions, and even some
peculiar mental phenomena associated with particular houses, con-
stitute supernormal facts or involve supernormal factors, are not
after nearly half a century of organized research put to confusion
like astrology, which takes its place with divination by entrails or
the flight of birds, and do Jiot remain evidentially just where they
were in the beginning, a matter of dispute, like most physical
phenomena, but are to-day on a far more solid evidential basis than
they were found, by the well-nigh unanim^ous verdict of experienced
psychical researchers, who have dealt at length with them.
It is also profoimdly interesting to note that at least some of the
types jiist mentioned have never been met by any theory which can
explain them in normal terms. Storms have indeed assailed them,
but they have been windstorms. Cases such as those reported by
this Society have not been met squarely and discussed fairly. I
have declared this again and again in print and named many hostile
writers and shown their methods of ciuibbling and evasion in detail.
It would be cruelty even to name again the learned American lady
115] Presidential Address 297
whose ambitious attempt the late Dr G. iStaiiley Hall hoped would
be "the turning of the tide." 8he touched nothing that she did
not mangle, and seemed incapable of making a correct abstract of
any incident as long as half a page. She was demolished by the
deadly parallels of Dr Hyslop, the calm reconstructions of the facts
by Mrs Sidgwick, and the irony of Andrew Lang. A friend of mine,
a psychologist, was for years visible to the public standing with
drawn sword before the threatened " laws of nature," which he
apparently thought were all finally identified and labelled, but the
only attention he paid to any report of actual facts was to dance
scornfully on some of its disjecta membra. For years I vainly
endeavoured to induce some learned sceptic to attempt the explana-
tion of one of our real cases, in its entirety, even if by a reasoned
theory that the investigators had been conspirators and romancers.
The only open opponent to promise such an attempt was furnished
with all the documents of the not lengthy case, and offered all
facilities for cross-examination, but unfortunately " has not had
time " in the eight years which have followed. The wiser doubters
have held their peace rather than betray their insufficient in-
formation or to sin against intellectual conscience by malpractice
on records.
Mr Podmore stands quite apart from the writers referred to, in
that while he opposed several possible supernormals, he did so by
recourse of another supernormal, telepathy, attempting to merge
them all in this. However some of us may think that he pushed
his argument far beyond the warrant of his data, and became highly
speculative at the end, he was intimately acquainted with the data,
and did really reason. The time has not come when we can afford
in our studies to leave out of account the theory that in telepathy
we have the solvent of all mental psychic phenomena ; Podmore
has presented it with the greatest labour and ingenuity, and we owe
him grateful recognition for so doing. Misrepresentation of the
facts, whether deliberate or blundering, sarcasm (of which even
Huxley was guilty) and dogmatic generalization, can do no good,
but any writer who conscientiously studies the facts and in terms
of logic attempts their appraisal, or works out to the uttermost a
theory of the process by which they came into being, no matter
what his verdict or his theory, confers a benefit upon psychical
research.
Summing up, the species of organized investigation which began
in 1882, and which has spread to various parts of the world, stands
far in advance of where it was at that date. If a part of the
area it was called upon to sm'vey proved to be desert, even to
learn that is a gain. If wider areas are still subject to earnest
debate, yet still other areas are by nearly all our experienced ex-
298 Dr Walter Franklin Prince [part
plorers therein pronounced fertile land. At least in one respect they
have advanced beyond the mere affirmation that certain classes of
phenomena demand supernormal explanations. They have reached
the point of affirming that instances of inmiediate sequences of
thought as between human minds have been observed in such
number and of sucli quality and under such conditions as to demon-
strate that thoughts can pass from one mind to another. This is
proved in the same sense that hypnotism was proved a number of
decades before the proof was acknowledged as valid by the scientific
world in general. Telepathy will ultimately duplicate the later
chapter of the history of hypnosis, by which the latter was defini-
tively recognized. Psychical researchers have done much to help
bring about those discoveries regarding the inner relations and
mechanisms of the mind which have transformed psychology within
the memory of the living. To show that a mind ca.n form outer
relations, reach out to other minds other than by the mediation of
the known senses, is to accomplish another revolution, and to open
up to possibilities of still further external relations to which no one
is yet entitled to fix a limit. Although it is possible to confront the
spiritistic hypothesis in cases where evidential material is received
regarding deceased persons, by the telepathic hypothesis, on the
other hand to prove telepathy tends better to establish the mind as
an entity in itself and strengthens the foundation for the hypothesis
of telepathic reception from minds disembodied.
Whatever we have ascertained, as Newton said, a great ocean of
undiscovered truth lies yet before us. Ours is a task not for years
but for centuries. We do not know, for instance, by what process
telepathy is accomplished. For that matter we are no nearer than
Newton in understanding the koio of gravity, unless Einstein has
showed it, and even then it is said that only about a dozen men can
understand it. We do not in the least know the process by which
certain astounding feats of psychometry were accomplished. There
are problems on every hand. But physics, a science centuries old,
can say the same thing ;
many of its solutions to-day are not what
they were yesterday, and some will doubtless be changed to-morrow.
The magic word " cryptesthesia " helps us not at all ; we might as
well employ the symbol X, or, it may be, x, y and z.
A few persons, popularly called mediums, when their normal
consciousness is more or less in abeyance, are able at times, in the
form of purported commimications from the dead to produce com-
plexes of correct or approximately correct factual statement, imder
conditions which prohibit normal knowledge of them, and to a
number and of a quality which make preposterous the notion that
they are the result of guessing or mere chance. The only two
theories which scientific procedure can take into account by way of
115] Presidential Address 299
explanation are the Spiritistic and Telepathic. The concept of a
Cosmic Reservoir of all human thought since time began has no
scientific standing whatever since it attaches itself to no known fact.
As well might we hypothesize that the psychic repeats what God
tells her, or that thoughts hang to the walls of the room and thence
fly to her brain.
Certainly the Spiristic theory has the simplicity of the Copernican
system, while the Telepathic theory has the complexity of the
Ptolemaic system. The former does not require us to believe that
the subconscious of mediums always plays a false part and the same
part, while, granting telepathy between the living and if the dead
do survive, mediumistic results might well be telepathic seepings
from discarnate consciousnesses, at times almost unmixed, at others
more or less mixed and obliterated with and by the medium's sub-
conscious thoughts. On the other hand, the telepathic theory would
accomit for nearly all examples of mediumistic material—for I
strongly think that there are a few exceptions—but only by positing
that the medium can filch both from the conscious and latent
thoughts of the sitter, resurrect long forgotten knowledge and reach
out to distant persons then busy and imaware of the experiment in
progress, and bring back facts to fill out the story ; at the same time
presenting the cxirious problem why the exercise of telepathy should
always suggest to the medium's consciousness relations with the
dead, when it never does so in our experiments for thought-
transference between the living.
Allow me for convenience to employ the term telepath, for human
subjects of experimentation for telepathy between the living, and
mediums for the human subjects of experimentation who purport
to transmit the thoughts of persons who once lived in the flesh.
We need facts, facts and yet m^ore facts from and relating to both.
Not facts simply as such, but facts with a difference, facts marked
by some peculiarity, facts carrying, so to speak, a co-efficient. We
need to know much more definitely than we now do whether and
to what extent sex, age, health, temperament, etc., affect the liability
to telepathic faculty, whether and to what extent such particulars
in combination between agent and percipient, as also relationship,
friendship, and similarity of tastes tend to affect results. We need
to study the internal characteristics of reactions of telepaths to
experiment. We need to vary the conditions of experiments and
the nature of what we attempt in them. There ought to be a re-
vival of interest in telepathic research, and first of all, necessarily,
an earnest search for favourable subjects. A similar course of
observational and analytical inquiry should be made in the case of
mediums on a wider scale than ever before, and the results on both
sides compared.
300 Dr Walter Franklin Prince [part
If the evidential " message " of a mediiim is based upon thoughts
telepathically received from spirits, I think the facts favour the
opinion that the spirits are capable of a better control of the process
on their side, have at times a better understanding of what is really
going on, however much they may be impeded by obstacles in the
medium's mind, than is the case with telepaths. If so, there might
well be differentiating indicia which if carefidly observed and studied
could help us to come to theoretical agreement. There seems to be
good evidence that thoughts upon which the agent is at the moment
concentrating, sometimes pass to another mind. There are striking
indications in the Doris Case, for example, that thoughts not at the
moment in the agent's upper consciousness, but which he had dwelt
upon a few hours previously may also pass over (if it be not merely
a case of later emergence in the upper consciousness of the per-
cipient). Whether facts not at the time of experimenting in con-
sciousness, and not thought of for a long time, can pass over to a
percipient, we have as yet little knowledge, or, if so, what law
governs their selection. If it should sometime appear that in such
case facts which in the past we had pondered deejDly and emotionally
have the right of way, that it is the precipitate of our own reactions
in the past to an event, rather than our pale recollection of what were
the reactions of another person to that event, which can get or is
likely to get expression in telepathy from our mind, we might have
at command a gauge of great value. For undoubtedly many
evidential purported commimications from deceased persons do
appear to bear the stamp of their point of view, their original
focussing of attention in the past, and their emotional reactions,
rather than our own. As I have stated in the book, Leonard and
Soule Experiments, after a great many true statements had come
relating to my wife's last days on earth, it quite suddenly struck me
that these to a large degree did not reflect my most vivid and
poignant memories of that last period but rather seemed to reflect
those particulars which loomed large in a sick mind which was kept
ignorant of distressing major facts and exaggerated the importance
of trifles. And after, as reported in the same book, the story of
Stephen with its host of correct particulars had been finished, it
struck me as peculiar, on the theory that the facts had been tele-
pathically filched from my mind, that there was so little regarding
that stage which at the time affected me most profoundly and has
since remained so vividly in my memory, and that there was such
dwelling upon the earlier stage at which I was not present, concern-
ing which I had so little information, but which was certainly for
my father charged with emotion at the time and must have remained
vividly in his memory. When we know more about the laws which
govern telepathy between the living we can better estimate whether
115] Presidential Address 301
such appearances in mediumistic deliverances are, or are not,
significant.
When I spoke of the need to collect facts with a difference
—
marked by some peculiarity, I had in mind such an incident as I
discussed on pages 103-5 of the Proceedings of the A.S.P.R. for
1923. Here is the appearance as of one intelligence persistently
trying to get through a word beginning with B (" Bossy," a calf), of
another intelligence (the sul)liminal of the medium ?) persistently
thinking that a rabbit is meant and trying to set down the word
"bunny" and being checked, the conflict continuing until the first
intelligence scatters the fixed idea of the second by a device precisely
like one I employ when over the telephone. Someone persistently
understands the name I give him as Pierce, and at last I, in despera-
tion, say " No, no. Prince, son of a king, Prince !
" I think that one
reading the incident in its entirety could hardly avoid the conviction
that it is an authentic subconscious exhibit, and one which does not
easily classify with what we know of telepathy between the living.
Elsewhere than in experimental telepathy and in mediumism,
incidents which present imcommon features should be studied with
special care. One such is where a woman in broad daylight had a
hallucination of seeing the face of an old schoohimte ivitli a bandage
around it, as formerly had been the case when she suffered from a
toothache, and then the face changed to that of a certain Frank ,
likewise bandaged. Later her husband, a commercial traveller, re-
turned from a trip, reported that he had been imexpectedly called
to a certain town, and while there attended the funeral of Frank,
and said " I don't know what was the matter but his face was tied
up in a cloth." Here was a mental mechanism eloquent with
meaning, even though it is yet uncertain what that meaning is.
Another incident is that of the man who at a moment of peril saw
the apparition of his father on the deck beside him, while his sister,
four thousand miles away, at about the same time, saw an appari-
tion of him and likewise the ap-parition that he saw. Both incidents
contain unusual features, and it is such differentiating features
which, when multiplied in number and variety, may prove very
posts to guide our way.
Concluding Reflections.
Whether one is a great scientist or only, to employ the language
of Professor Sidgwick, one who means to be as scientific as he can,
he is irresistibly urged to step across the line which separates
science from philosophy and choose between the opposing concepts
as to what factors constitute the imiverse. Some persons naively
suppose that materialism is peculiarly scientific, whereas of course
302 Dr Walter FranJdin Prince [part
it is a philosophical theory, exactly as is idealism or vitalism. One
must choose, else his scientific thinking at last becomes confused.
Haeckel chose materialism, and shaped his scientific theories accord-
ingly. Huxley and Tyndall, although I learn with surprise that
many regard them as very high-priests of materialism, were unable
so to choose. Huxley said that either from the hardness of his head
or his heart he could not identify mind with either matter or force,
as science understands force. Tyndall speculated on the possibility
that all matter has a mental side. It seems a strange moment, now,
when science is pursuing matter behind the curtain which is the aspect
that it presents to our senses, and finding its essence in the invisible,
for mind which has accomplished this feat to deny its own sovereign
entity. The mind can direct the very forces of nature. No more
work need be performed by the brain in blowing up an ammunition
depot and destroying a thousand lives than in setting the match to
the task of lighting a cigarette. In every generation myriads of
minds leap into fuller vigour and seek new adventures sheerly
through thoughts that originated in the brain of a Plato, a Shake-
speare, a Darwin, or some other thinker who uttered them yesterday,
a century or a millennium ago. Surely the retina is indifferent to
what characters lie on the printed x^age ;
only in the thoughts them-
selves do we find the efficient cause. I do not wonder that Wundt
in the ripened period of his life looked back upon that earlier one
when he pronounced psychology a branch or department of phy-
siology, with a sort of shame, and called it the season when he
sowed his wild oats. Probably the most of us here are impelled by
the sum-total of our studies to take a stand with Wundt and tluxley
and Carpenter and Ladd.
Very well, then : as physicists are studying a multitude of effects
which are shaping their views on the nature of matter, from the
centre of the so-called atom to the farthest range of the visible stars,
so psychical researchers are studying cert^ain effects to determine
whether or not they indicate that which is not set down in the text
books regarding the inmost powers and the external relations of the
mind of man.
It would not surprise me if science should some time be led to
regard that instinct, so to speak, by which every race of man from
the lowest to the highest stage of development, entertains religioiis
ideas, the one imifying element in which is the apprehension of
invisible spiritual energy with which human beings are in some sort
of contact, whether b)^ virtue of gods or God, devils or beneficent
daemons, or the spirits of deceased men, as a scientific datum, even
as it does gravity now. Anthropologists, as they com^e better to
know the most primitive tribes, are gradually relinquishing the
opinion that there is any quite withoiit it. Individuals or groups
115] Presidential Address 303
may cultivate insensibility to this integral trend, but like circus
performers wlio learn to walk on tbeir bands, tbey perish and leave
no dynastic successors. Science may not take into account the
interpretations which constitute the various religions, but it may
have to take into account the central fact out of which the inter-
pretations, so various, grow. But that time is not yet ; we are now
scientifically limited to empirical observation of facts, and to attempt
at their proper time to weave together the facts into a connected
scheme.
In a recent magazine article, a blind deaf mute has told how she
was taught the sign language. Speaking of the beginning of the
process she says :
" The doings of this teacher were certainly strange
to me at this time, especially the way she kept wiggling her fingers
in the palm of my hand. . . . The queer, meaningless way she
insisted on wiggling her fingers." If we are spiritual entities, it is
certainly within the range of theoretical possibility that there are
other spiritual entities as viewless to our senses as our own real
selves are, and existing in other relations than ours. And it may
be that many of the odd occurrences which occasionally take place,
which we cannot classify with the mass of our experiences, and
which we puzzle over, are, as it were, a wiggling of fingers in the
palms of our hands, to make us beings of imperfect senses under-
stand that external intelligence is trying to reach us.
If that view finally prevails and the fact of occasionally demon-
stratable telepathy from another sphere of being comes to be
generally accepted, I think it fortimate that this supreme result of
psychical research is likely to be reached only by slow steps and the
gradual accumulation of evidence.
Otherwise I should fear another wave of indiscriminating credulity
such as swept over parts of the United States in the latter half of
the nineteenth century, and carried thousands of bright men and
women from their moorings of common-sense, followed by a re-
action and the flats of incredulity in which most of their children
and grandchildren live to-day. Electricity, one of the most useful
servants of mankind, is terribly destructive when uncontrolled.
Popular self-government is a good thing, but there are peoples which,
if too suddenly it were achieved, would plunge into anarchy and
misery. There are truths which are dangerous if received too soon
or too suddenly. So there is an ancient text which says : "I have
yet many things to say mito you, but ye cannot bear them now."
If by some accident the radio could have come into existence a
thousand years ago, without the long course of discovery and
invention which prepared the way for it, it would have made the
world half mad. I think I see which way the finger is pointing in
psychical research, but before any such general agreement as I have
304 Dr Walter Franldin Prince [part us]
mentioned, even in the ranks of this Society, mucli preparatory work
is needed. All superstitions and every species of human imposition
which has invaded our field must be banished, discrimination and
moderation of exj^ectation must be taught, it must become fully
understood that if there are rifts in the separating curtain it does
not mean that the curtain is to be torn fully away, and that most
people will still have to take the facts on authority like the early
Christians who did not themselves see the apparition of Jesus.
So thinking, 1 quote, quite calmly, the words of William James.
" The facts are evidently complicated in the extreme, and we have
as yet hardly scratched the surface of them. . . . These earlier
observations of ours will surely be interpreted one day in the light
of future discoveries which it may well take a century to make. . . .
What we need is more and more observations."
Whatever the final issue, I refuse to believe that facts, however
some of them may elude the conditions of the laboratory, but which
do nevertheless perennially repeat themselves and force themselves
upon observation, will forever be denied recognition. I have too
much respect for human intellect to credit that there exists any
category of observable facts concerning which it will remain per-
petually in doubt. Their actuality and something of their workings
and their significance—and in no department of inquiry can we say
more—will at length be acknowledged.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 116
OCTOBER, 1930
ARTHUR JAIIES, EARL OF BALFOUR.
Lord Balfour was a ]\Iem.ber and Vice-President of
the Society for forty-eight years, and President in
1893. An appreciation of Lord Balfour's attitude
to^ psychical research was printed in the Journal
(xxvi. 59). We publish this portrait as a further
record of his interest in the Society's work from the
time of its foimdation to the time of his death.
SOME INCIDENTS OCCUERING AT SITTINGS WITH MES
LEONARD WHICH MAY THEOW LIGHT UPON THEIE
MODUS OPERANDI.^
By Mrs W. H. Salter.
This report consists of a number of incidents from trance sittings
with Mrs Leonard which appear likely to be of interest to students
of the modus operandi of such phenomena. One point upon which
some of these incidents have a bearing is as to the form in which
the knowledge shown by the entranced medium presents itself to
her consciousness, whether the language of the sensory images
which the control, Feda, habitually employs, is really appropriate.
Another point to consider is the way in which knowledge derived
from various sources, of which direct thought-transference from the
sitter may be one, but cannot be the only one, seems to be blended
into a consecution of ideas appropriate to the supposed commimi-
cator. This phenomenon, which is not uncommon at good sittings,
is obviously, and on any hypothesis, of psychological interest and
importance. Thirdly, there is the question whether the time at
which some piece of supernormal knowledge was acquired can be
determined. I have quoted two book tests in which it would seem
that the knowledge shown by Feda was obtained either during, or
very shortly before the sitting.
Some of the incidents I am about to relate are taken from my own
sittings with Mrs Leonard, of which I have now had a considerable
number, and some from sittings taken by other Members of the
Society who have sent us their records.
As to my own sittings—the purporting commimicators are my
parents, Dr and IVIrs A. W. Verrall, and during a part of the sitting
my father, to whom in his character of communicator I shall refer
by his initials, as A. W. V., frequently purports to control Mrs
Leonard himself. My father died in 1912, my mother in 1916 ;
my
first sitting was in January 1917, and I went to Mrs Leonard anony-
mously. After my fourth sitting it became impossible to conceal
my identity, as the Society was carrying out a series of experimental
A considerable part of this paper was read at a Private Meeting of the
Society on 9 January 1929.
306
Incidents Occurring at Sittings ivitli Mrs Leonard 307
sittings with Mrs Leonard, for the organisation of which I was
mainly responsible. I do not, however, in my own case attach
much importance to this question of anonymity, because nearly all
the interesting matter I have received at these sittings has been of
such a kind that knowledge of my identity would have availed Mrs
Leonard hardly at all towards obtaining the required information
from normal sources. It is noticeable that in all the sittings I have
had with her she has never once proffered the least scrap of informa-
tion of the sort easily obtainable in my father's case from books of
reference or in other obvious ways.
1. Concerning knowledge apparently derived from sensory impressions.
The first point I propose to discuss is the form in which the
various impressions registered at a sitting present themselves to
whatever entity is purporting to control Mrs Leonard at the time.
According to Feda her perceptions are definitely sensory ; she uses
such expressions as "he's building up," " he's showing me so-and-
so
'"
;
or, addressing the commmiicator, " say it again, Feda can't
hear," and so forth. But careful observation of IVbs Leonard's
phenomena has clearly shown that these statements are not always
to be taken at their face value. Lady Troubridge has called atten-
tion to this question in a paper on " The Modus Operandi in Medium-
istic Trance," published in Vol. xxxii of our Proceedings. She
writes (p. 369) :
" There are certain aspects of the Feda phenomena
which leave me very doubtful as to whether these simple sensory
terms convey any accurate analogy with the process really involved."
She goes on to report an occasion when Feda described " to Miss
Radclyfie-Hall with great accuracy and great detail a portrait of
Miss Radclyffe-Hall." But Feda, who according to her own state-
ment " sees this picture and is able to describe it at such length,
never apparently grasps the fact that the picture being described
by her is a portrait, and a striking resemblance at that, of the very
familiar sitter to whom she is speaking."
The same difficulty is dealt with by Mr Drayton Thomas, a
regular and long-established sitter with Mrs Leonard, in his paper
in our Proceedings (xxxviii. 49-100), and it has been clearly stated
by his communicators on various occasions that Feda's own opinion
as to how impressions reach her cannot always be taken as
accurate. For instance (p. 54) :
" If I then project a thought of
some concrete object, Feda may remark, '
I see so-and-so,' but
though she may seem to be seeing the object, it is really my thought
of it that has reached her." And again (p. 56) :
" For example,
she will say '
I hear the name Lily '
when actually a lily has been
pictured to her, or the idea of a lily impressed on her mind. She
308 Mrs W. H. Salter [PAET
says '
hear '
because she has given herself the suggestion of hearing
and fails to realise that she has not actually heard it. Expecting to
perceive ideas as soimd, she thinks they come that way, even when
they are coming by sight."
I will now quote from my own sittings some passages which seem
to show clearly that an impression represented by Feda as visual
was reaching her fragmentarily in some other way. At the first
sitting I had with Mrs Leonard on 29 January 1917, after some quite
appropriate talk which I interpreted as referring to my mother,.
Feda said :
" There's a gentleman with her with a beard, not a
very big beard, shortish at the sides, longer in front. He wants to
let you know they're together. He's a nice-looking man, he's smil-
ing all over his face." Almost immediately after this the sitting
came to an end.
The important point to note here is that the man said to be with
my mother, afterwards identified with my father, is described as
having a beard. My father did in fact v^ear a beard from early
manhood to the end of his life.
At my third sitting, on 29 May 1917, after remarks which again
seemed to refer to my mother, Feda said :
" She's got a gentleman
with her, a bit thin, a bit of a cough. His nose comes out, it's bent
down a little, it's a bit thin at the sides. The bone shows a bit.
He's been good-looking. The eyebrows are brown, a little arched,
the hair brown, the temples bare, have a bony look." Then after
some quite appropriate remarks as to the man described having
been in bad health for some time before he died " not able to get
about," Feda gave the letter " H or A " and then the name
" Arthur," my father's first name.
The above description is, as far as it goes, quite a good description
of my father as he was before his hair went gi'ey. Although there is
no mention of a beard this time, nothing is said which is inconsistent
with his having had one. At my next sitting, on 15 November 1917,
after some further references to "Mr Arthm-," I asked Feda if he
could " build up.'' She said : He's altered a bit, got yoimger-
looking, more towards the middle of life, hardly that. He's got
good features. The nose shows the bridge. It's narrow above,
round at the tip. It broadens a bit below. The mouth is a bit
large, the lips are pink, not red. The chin is more roimded. The
face is not quite oval. It's too broad to be oval, but it's not roimd.
The eyebrows are bro'wn, straight, going out a little at the corners.
The eyes are not prominent, the hair brovv^nish, shows the temples.
The forehead is good, a fine shape, an open, clever look. People
would say that was the finest part of the face. The bumps on the
temples stand out a little. There's a rather straight line between the
nose and forehead. The hair is a bit longer on the top. He brushes
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings ivith Mrs Leonard 309
it away from the face. There's a photograph, an old-fashioned one
in a low collar, a bit of hair coming forward."
Now this description, in which the communicator's face is ap-
parently viewed sometimes from the front, sometimes in profile
(see e.g. " there's a rather straight line between the nose and fore-
head "), is on the whole distinctly good, but it contains details
which seem to imply that the man described is beardless, the size
and colour of the mouth, the shape of the chin. It is impossible to
suppose that any one who was describing in detail a man visibly
present could be mistaken as to whether or no he had a beard.
Against the interpretation that Feda is seeing my father as a quite
yoimg man, clean-shaven, is first her own statement that he is
" towards the middle of life, hardly that," and secondly the fact
that at the sitting of 29 January 1917 the man afterwards identified
with my father is said to be bearded. My otvti interpretation of what
occurred is that Feda was not really seeing " anything, but that
on this, as on other occasions, she was receiving a series of mental
impressions which she translated into visual terms. Her statements
that my father had a rather large mouth and a face not roimded but
too broad to be oval, are in fact correct, as early photographs show.
Two years later, on 8 November 1919, when A. W. V. was pur-
porting to control Mrs Leonard himself without the intervention of
Feda, what seems to be an allusion to this mistake of hers was made
spontaneously :
" A mistake of Feda's, a great mistake. (Touches
side of face, a little below the cheekbone.) I can"t "understand how
she managed to make such a mistake without correcting it after ;
it's a most strange thing. It's a good thing I'm able to correct these
little things myself. Yet it has a very good point in a way, it cer-
tainly does not suggest that the medium has any Imowledge of me,
because if the medium had any knowledge of me whatever, such a
mistake would have been impossible.''
It is of course true that if Sirs Leonard had ever seen a photo-
graph of my father or had heard his appearance described, she
would have been most imlikely to describe him herself as beardless.
The incident is also an example, of which many others could be
found, of the powers of memory shown in these trance-phenomena.
Between the original statement and the correction of it, all but
two years elapsed, during which Mrs Leonard had sat with a great
number of other sitters and had presumably given some himdreds
of descriptions of supposed communicators and their friends. One
might have thought that all recollection of the incident of
15|November 1917 would have been obliterated from her mind. But
something, or somebody, seems to have remembered that a descrip-
tion had been given, which in one particular was wrong, and when
opportunity occurred, to have made the necessary correction.
310 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
Between November 1917 and November 1919 I had had six sittings
with Mrs Leonard myself. A. W. V. took control himself for the
first time on 24 October 1919, and again on 25 October 1919 ; on
neither of these occasions did he make any reference to his own
personal appearance.
I now quote from my first sitting with Mrs Leonard, 29 January
1917, some statements made concerning a communicator sub-
sequently said to be my mother. Many of these statements, as
will be seen from my notes, given below, are true ;
they contain,
however, an admixture of such errors as could hardly have arisen
had Feda's knowledge been derived from any clearly apprehended
image or series of images. Her words, though for the most part
they jjurport to describe something seen, suggest to my mind a
number of rather disjointed mental impressions, patched together
and occasionally eked out by a little guesswork.
Extract from sitting of
Feda. There's an elderly lady
with you, medium height, lost
her figure which made her look
broader, rounded cheeks but a
little sunk, the chin a little
fallen away, the mouth not full,
the lips not red, a little drawn
down, the nose rather straight,
the eyebrows brown, slightly
arched, the eyes blue grey. The
hair has been brown, getting
grey, the hair is done close back,
twisted up.
This lady was not well before
she passed out ; she was not
well for two or three years, not
an invalid. Feda thinks she had
an internal weakness for some
years ; she didn"t know, but it
caused her passing on. The
doctor would tell you she had it
for some time. About two years
before she began to feel ill, but
she kept it to herself. At the
end she got suddenly weak. To-
wards the end she got tired of
her physical body. . . .
29 Janv.anj 1917.
My mother v^as fifty- eight
when she died ; she was of
medium height, her figure a
little broad in later life, but not
at all stout. The description of
her features is correct except
that her eyebrows were decidedly
arched (though so lightly marked
as to be barely visible) and her
eyes were distinctly blue, a con-
spicuous feature in her face.
The statements about the hair
are true.
All the statements about my
mother's last illness are true.
She died of abdominal cancer,
which according to the doctor
must have begun some three or
four years before her death.
\
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings with Mrs Leonard 311
She was used to doing things
herself, she didn't like not doing
them. She used to do things
with her fingers a good deal, it
soothed her. (Motion of sewing
or knitting.)
You've got a photograph of
her, it shows the top part, almost
full face. It's not very nice of
her. She looked serious in it,
thoughtful, but when she smiles
she looks quite different. Her
face got a little haggard before
she passed on. She got so tired-
looking round the mouth. Her
cheeks are more filled out now.
Her hair was a pretty brown one
time, a warm brown. She looks
much yomiger now. That photo
doesn't do her justice. She says
something about an enlarge-
ment, there was an enlargement
made.
H. S. Yes.
F. She was pleased about it,
thinks it was rather good.
H. S. Yes.
F. She plumped down sud-
denly. She wanted to show
Feda she was sitting slightly
sideways, but you can see both
sides of her face. There's a
piece of furniture at one side.
One arm is stuck out more than
the other, on the side of the fur-
niture. She's got a dark dress
on, a black, Feda thinks. She
didn't like low necks. She's got
a band round the throat, a little
white band at the top. She's
f got a bodice, not a blouse, a
made bodice, fastened in front,
with little folds, pleats at the
side. There are bands round the
wrist. She's got an oval brooch
My mother did a good deal of
crochet-work during the last
year of her life.
I have a photograph of my
mother which is an enlargement
from a snapshot I took myself
about two years before her
death. References to enlarge-
ments of photographs are, how-
ever, so common at sittings with
Mrs Leonard and other mediums
that little evidential value can
be attached to this point. The
following statements are correct
in relation to this photograph
of my mother : she is looking
serious and thoii htful, the
photograph shows " the top part,
almost full face," my mother is
sitting slightly sideways, she has
a black dress on with a white
band at the throat. It is not
true that there is a piece of
fm'niture at one side, that one
arm " is stuck out more than
the other," that my mother is
wearing " a made bodice," " not
a blouse," that " there are bands
round the wrist." My mother
is wearing a black coat, not un-
IQve a bodice but open in front,
showing a white silk shirt. There
are no " bands at the wrists,"
which are not visible at all in the
phot^Q-raph, nor is there any
" oval brooch with a gold rim."
My mother possessed such a
brooch, but so, I imagine, did
most people of her generation.
The most distinctive feature of
the photograph, that my mother
is reading a large book held
312 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
with a gold rim, not quite oval, open on her knees, is not noted
rather old-fashioned. The out- at all.
side is like a rim. There's some-
thing different in the middle.
The general inference which I should draw from the above extract
is that a certain amount of veridical information about my mother
was woven by Feda into an imaginary picture of an elderly widow,
based on preconceived ideas of the appearance such a picture might
be expected to present. The " bands at the wrist are presumably
widow's bands, which my mother never wore. She was, in fact, a
widow at the time the photograph was taken.
I now give a group of extracts from my sittings, showing various
attempts, finally successful, to give my mother's maiden name,
Merrifield. These extracts afford a good example of the way in
which a sensory impression, in this case auditory, may be helped
out and brought to precision by association of ideas.
Extract from sitting of 15 JSovemher 1917.
Feda. Mar, he's trying to say
four letters. He wants to get a
liame starts Mar (Feda draws in
the air with her finger M a r s (?)
ten). And another name begin-
ning with M, some one on the
other side. The other name is
on the earth plane, and another
name in the spirit-world It's
the same name Marston. It
startiS Merry, but there's more
to the name.
H. S. I think I understand.
F. {sotto voce.) Deth, deth.
(Aloud.) Can't get it, starts
Merry and another syllable.
About four letters after Merry.
(She whispers w^hat is evidently
an attempt at Meredith.) Three
or four letters above the line.
There's a repetition of letters in
the name. Two letters are
doubled. It's not Meredith.
Merivale, more like that. It's
This first attempt is very con-
fused ;
possibly some confusion
was introduced by the fact that
my mother's Christian name was
Margaret ; this name had not at
the time been given at my sit-
tings, of which the sitting of 15
November 1917 was the fourth.
The name Marston means
nothing to me. Having got the
first syllable "Merry," Feda
proceeds to guess, and tries
" Meredith."
Feda then guesses again with
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings loith Mrs Leonard 313
not a name you know, not an " Merivale," a better approxi-
ordinary name like Smith or mation to Merryfield in sound
Jones. and sense.
Extract from sitting of 25 October 1919.
Feda. He wants to speak Flora is the Christian name of
about Flora. [In a passage my mother's only sister. Miss
which follows, not quoted here, Flora Merrifield. The name had
the name Maria was given.] been given quite appropriately
A word he's reminded of by at the end of the immediately
tallcing of Flora, can't get it, preceding sitting, 24 October
Maybank, Maybank. Not quite 1919, when A. W. V. was pur-
right, I get bank and M. A porting to control the medium
word bank at the end of it. . . . himself. The name Maria had
This name was not connected also been given at an earlier
with anjiihing in his own house, sitting ; it was the name both
When he got mto touch with the of my aunt Flora and of my
person or place of that name, he grandmother, Mrs Merrifield.
had to go away from his own
house for it. Marybanks, Merry- There follows another attempt
bank. M and bank is i W he can at Merryfield, which appears
give. now as " Merrybank."
Extract from sitting of 25 October 1919.
Feda. He's tallving about a
place called M, many years ago,
he was fond of a place called M
himself, a place with a long
fimny name, he thinks you know
the name.
H. S. I must think it over.
F. He says it isn't a name
you'll have to verify. It's a
long name, with three somids or
more.
H. S. Can he remember any-
thing about it ?
F. He'd lived in it.
H. S. I'm off here altogether !
F. It was not lately, not in
the late part of his earth life.
You've heard of it, Merryfield, The name Merrifield is here
Merryfield. correctly given, but is incorrectly
314 Mrs W. H. Salter. [part
H. S. I know that name, but
it isn't a place where Mr Arthur
lived.
F. Merryfield is a field where
peojile enjoys themselves. That"s
what it means.
said to be the name of a place in
which my father had lived.
There is a village called Merri-
field in Devonshire (the Merri-
fields were a Devon family), but
my father had no association
with the place himself. This
mistake Feda explains by refer-
ence to the meaning of the name.
This name would have associa-
tions for my father with the
earlier \^a,it of his life and with
the place in which he then livedo
Brighton.
With Feda's attempts at the name Merrifield may be compared
the similar attempts made to give the same name by Mrs Thomp-
son's Control, Nelly ; the incident is thus reported by my mother
[Proceedings, xvii. 208) :
" Merrifield was said to be the name of a lady in my family. The
name was given at fu'st thus :
'
Merrifield, Merriman, Merrythought,
Merrifield ; there is an old lady named one of those who,' etc.
Later, Nelly said :
'
Mrs Merrythought, that's not quite right ; it's
like the name of a garden,' and after in vain trying to give me the
name exactly, she said :
'
I will tell you how names come to us.
It's like a picture : I see schoolchildren enjoying themselves. You
can't say Merrymans, because that's not a name, nor Merrypeople.'
Nelly, later on, spoke of my mother a. '
Mrs Happyfield '
or '
Mrs
Merrifield,' with indifference."
2. A detailed description of an article which had belonged to
the ]nnyorting communicator.
An incident also presenting a curious problem as to the form in
which the knowledge shown, which was in some respects remarkably
exact and detailed, reached the medium's mind, occurred at a sit-
ting taken by a Member of the Society, Mr Alexander Graham ;
the notetaker was Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant Secretary to the
Society. Mr Graham [pseud.] had sat with Mrs Leonard before,
but there had been no previous allusions to the matters here dis-
cussed. I have included in my report another incident in the nature
of a " picture-test " which is not immediately relevant to the par-
ticular point I am now illustrating, because it seemed best that
these two incidents, occurring in the same sitting, should not be
divided.
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings with Mrs Leonard 315
Extract from sittih
Feda. She [the purporting
communicator, the sitter's wife]
feels you are going to be re-
minded of her to-morrow. That
it will be a nice condition, some-
thing rather beautiful, . . . that
there will be something happen-
ing to-morrow that will make
you think of her, bring her back
to you. She feels as if to-
morrow you are going to be re-
minded of a place tha.t you knew
when she was here with you.
You may be shown a picture of
it or see a picture of it, of a place
that she was very very fond of.
Wait a minute. Oh ! Rocky.
When she was here on earth do
you remember going to a very
rocky place ?
Mr Graham. Yes.
F. Because she giving me a
feeling of a very rocky place and
as if you were happy there. It
make me feel a rather happy
time, and yet though it was
happy there was something
occurred just about that time,
wait a minute, that was rather
worrying. A happy time in a
way, but something rather
worrying came into it. I don"t
know if you remember some-
thing like a little illness ?
A. G. Yes, I think I know
what she means.
F. Something began or was
worrying just about that time.
A. G. Yes.
F. It's that place that she
thinks you are going to have a
reminder of it again.
of 6 October 1928.
Notes by Mr Graham.
The sitting was on a Saturday.
Every Simday when I am in
London I attend a certain special
Church Service at which I in-
variably have the strong impres-
sion of being in very close con-
tact with my wife. There is
possibly a reference to that here.
The first years of our married
life VN'ere passed in the foothills
of the Rocky Mountains. We
had many happy recollections of
that time, and it is true that
" something rather worrying,"
" a little illness " occurred, as I
had an attack of pulmonary
haemorrhage which alarmed us
very much at the time, though
it did not recur, or lead to any
disabling incident.
On the Simday (the " to-
morrow ") I had no reminder of
the above place, but while read-
ing the Daily Express soon after
8 on the Monday morning, I
came across an article on a tour
in Canada with a picture entitled
" The Rocky Mountains.'" They
were not mentioned in the letter-
press.
I should fm'ther add that 8 Oc-
tober was the anniversary of our
wedding at Montreal, from which
place we proceeded to our home
near the Rocky Moimtains. This
amiiversary is referred to in an
earlier sitting of 22 October 1926.
316 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
It sliould also be mentioned that the Daily Express for 6 October,
the day of the sitting, contained under the heading " New Features
for Women a statement that on the following Monday would
appear the first article of a series entitled " The Truth about Life
Out There," giving an account of a woman's trip across Canada.
There is no mention here of the Rocky Moimtains. In reply to an
enquiry as to whether he was likely to have read this notice in
the Daily Express before his sittmg, Mr Graham writes (in a
letter dated 27 January 1930): "I am sv-re that I did not con-
sciously see in the Daily Express of October 6 the allusion to the
forthcoming articles on Canada previous to my sitting. At that
time I always on the morning before a sitting made a point of never
looking at a newspaper, being desirous of concentrating all my
attention on the coming sitting. ... Of course I may have suh-
consdously taken in the allusion, though I do not think so, as my
tendency was rather to avoid even a glance in the direction of a
newspaper that might be in the room. I searched several news-
papers on Oct. 7th (Simday) for a picture of anj^hing rocky that
might seem to fit in with the commmiication, but without success.
I was exceedingly surprised to come upon a picture of the Rocky
Mountains in the Daily Express of Oct. 8th, having given up all
expectation of finding anything v»^hich might seem to coincide with
the communicator's remarks.''
Mrs Leonard informs me that the daily papers she was taking in
October 1928 were the Daily Mail and the Daily Herald. There is
no reason therefore to suppose that she had seen the annoimcement
in the Daily Express at the time of Mr Graham's sitting. Nor, so
far as is ascertainable, had she any normal knowledge of his personal
association with the Rocky Mountains.
I will now quote a further extract from Mr Graham's sitting of
6 October 1928 in which a scent-bottle was described which had
belonged to the commmiicator. There was another allusion to
the matter at a later sitting on 14 January 1929 (see below).
Concernuag this scent-bottle Mr Graham writes :
" I was unable to
identify the object described at the time of either sitting. After the
first sitting I asked my wife's two sisters if either had a scent-bottle
of hers. One of them had none, the other a single bottle, which,
however, had never contained scent, and did not in the least
correspond to the article described, and finally I gave this latter
up as unidentifiable.
" In J uly 1929 I was inspecting at a furniture storage some things of
mine which I had not seen for three years, and there noticed a scent-
bottle which struck me as being possibly the object referred to at the
sittings. It was forwarded tome fromthestore in October 1929, and in
some important respects it seems to correspond with the description."
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings with Mrs Leonard 317
Extract from sitting of 6 October 1928.
Feda. And what was tliat
you had of hers in metal, open
at the top, unscrewed at the
top ; a small thing, not a big
thing you drunk out of, a little
tiny thing. You imscrewed the
top like a little tiny bottle. It
stUl exists.
Notes by Mr Graham.
Inaccuracies are as follows :
The top only of the scent-
bottle is of metal, the body is of
cut glass. It is not tiny, but
large for a scent-bottle, the body
of it being about three-fourths
the size of an ordinary water-
A. G. Have I got it still ?
F. A little tiny bottle. You
unscrew two things at the top
because when she undid one she
seems to be doing something
more to the top. It isn't plain
—
it got like engraving on it, like
a little fancy-work stamped on
it, and just round the edge of his
top got a little beading and on
the top part of it, the top part
it has got like little sprays of fiat
open flowers, round, very round,
just as round as pennies, only
tiny, like forget-me-nots, not
bottle such as one finds on a
washstand. Only the metal top
unscrews. Beneath it is a glass
stopper.
The apex of the top is stamped
with initials.
Correct.
This description is remarkably
accurate [see illustration].
318 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
like a closed rose, you know a
full flower. It is something that
she was fond of and used here.
She must have had it a long
time. Perhaps you will be able
to find it.
A. G. I don't think I've got
it now.
F. It still exists. If you
haven't got it, she thinks it
could be traced.
A. G. I think her sisters might
iave it.
F. She would be pleased if
you could lind it because it was
a little thing she was very fond
of. Some time, if it's easy, she
would like you to remember it
and verify it. Oh yes, oh ! she
smelled him ;
something she
smelled, like that she is giving.
A. G. Yes, I imderstand, I
think I know what it is.
F. Only she doesn't suppose
you will remember that parti-
cular pattern on it. As well as
the flat flowers there's something
rather streaky on it, long curv-
ing streaks on it. It s very
pretty, but no one is using it
now. It's just put on one side.
The bottle and contents were
a present from a valued friend.
My wife, though she only used it
seldom, was very fond of this
perfume and also of the bottle
containing it. She had had it
during the last seven or eight
years of her life.
I had no recollection of having
stored it. When my things were
stored I was recovering from a
severe illness and my capacity
for mental attention was sub-
normal.
Some cotton-wool inside the
metal top has a perceptible
perfume. The metal top with
the cotton-wool still in place was
sent to the Society for confirma-
tion.
Although I said " I think I
know what it is," I had no im-
pression in my mind of this
object. I was thinking of an-
other scent-bottle of my wife's
with a spraying apparatus, but
I am sure this had no metal top
at all similar. Anyhow it has
disappeared long since.
Quite accurate [see illustra-
tion]. I am one of the least
observant of mortals as regards
ornamentations on silverware,
etc.
Extracts from sitting of 14 January 1929.
Feda [aside). I think you [There appears to be some
told him before about the tiny doubt in Feda's mind whether
weeny bottle. the object here described is the
A. G. Yes, I could not get same as in the sitting of 6
iold of it yet. October 1928. The description,
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings with Mrs Leonard 319
F. Not that. She shows me however, is very similar, and the
BOW something partly of glass, small size of the bottle is again
very small and round, the top emphasised.—H. de G. S.]
screws on, a metal top with
engraving, very small, she thinks
you have it. It is not strictly
speaking a bottle, she says.
(Later in the sitting) :
Notes by Mr Graham.
F. What have you got of hers Correct,
that is so scented ? She is not
a lady who would use scent. I
like gallons of scent ! But she
didn't, as a rule, use scent. But
you still have something that There was about a quarter of
was strongly scented, and still an inch of scent remaining in it.
has the scent in it. It is about
the only thing that you have It is the only thing,
that is scented, aromatic.
The points as to which Feda shows a correct apprehension in
these two sittings are as follows :
(1) It is true that the communicator had a scent-bottle which
she valued during her life and that this bottle is still in existence,
but not in use.
(2) The metal top of this bottle is accurately described in con-
siderable detail.
On the other hand, at the sitting of 6 October 1928 no knowledge
is shown of the fact that the body of the scent-bottle is of glass,
and at both sittings the bottle is incorrectly described as very small.
(Feda's words rather suggest a bottle of smelling-salts.) Feda does
not anywhere definitely state that she is seemg the bottle, but the
words " when she undid one she seems to be doing something more
to the top " suggest a visual image of the commimicator holding the
bottle. But when we take into account the complete misapprehen-
sion as to the size of the bottle, it seems clear that we have again to
do with a series of disjointed impressions (some of them, e.g. the
impression of pattern on the metal top, perhaps visual) which Feda
pieces together and ekes out with some purely subjective additions.
.
3. Impressions derived from some person presefit at the sitting.
Various writers on Mrs Leonard's phenomena have called atten-
tion to the fact that according to statements made by the com-
municators a particular line of communication may be facilitated
by the fact that a certain word, or a certain tram of thought, had
been recently in the mind of some person present at the sitting. I
320 3Irs W. H. Salter [part
have noticed several incidents in my own sittings which confirm
these statements, and I think that this tendency to draw upon the
mind of the sitter or of the medium may occasionally lead to con-
fusion or irrelevance, because it may be that Feda herself does not
always know the source of her impressions and ideas which have
been accidentally gleaned from some living mind, ideas which are
" in the air," so to speak, may be wrongly associated with the com-
mmiicator. I will give from my own sittings two examples of what
I mean.
At a sitting on 8 November 1919, when A. W. V. was purporting
to control the medium himself, after what I interpreted at the time
as a reference to the fact of his having worn woollen cuffs in winter
to keep his wrists warm, he went on : "I don't think you'll xmder-
stand what I am going to say now, but it isn't given to many men
to wear two pairs of trousers (said with a laugh). Well, I did once,
I think you'll remember. Your mother remembers it well, you
knew about it too."
jSTow, although I cannot of course assert positively that my father
never at any time of his life wore two pairs of trousers, I can say
that I have no recollection of ever hearing such an incident reported.
But what interested me in the allusion was the fact that I had
spent the evening before the sitting at the house of the friend who
was taking notes for me, and in her and my presence another friend
had related an incident in her own experience when a man had worn
several pairs of trousers. I was at once reminded of this story by
what A. W. V. said.
Again, at a sitting on 1 November 1921, just as Feda was relin-
quishiug her hold upon the medium in order that A. \V. V. might
assume control, she ejaculated without any comment or explanation
the name Sylvester. Subsequently A. W. V. referred to the name
himself, thus :
A. W. V. Do you remember Feda saying Sylvester ?
H. S. Yes.
A. W. V. She got that from me. I suddenly thought of Sylvester.
It's the name of some one I knew, some one not on the earth, over
here with me. I wonder if you know you've reminded me of this
yourself, you've made it easy for me to say the name. Often I can
say a name if you've thought about it lately.
Now, in this case as in the preceding one, Ifcannot assert that my
father never knew a man called Sylvester,^ but I am not myself
1 Mrs Sidgwick and Dr C. D. Broad have both suggested to me that my
father is likely to have had some acquaintance with the well-known mathe-
matician Professor J. J. Sylvester (St. John's College, Cambridge). Sylvester
was associated in his work with Cayley, whom my father certainly knew ;
he died in 1897.
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings luith Mrs Leonard 321
aware of his having any close personal associations with that name.
On the other hand I can perfectly well understand the assertion
that I have made it easy for him to get the name by having it lately
in my thoughts. My husband and I had recently sold our London
house to an old acquaintance of my husband's family, Mrs Sylvester
Horne, and I had received a letter concerning this sale only a short
time before the sitting.
4. Three book-tests.
(a)
I propose now to quote, again from my own sittings, a book-test,
together with the context in which it was given. The incident is of
interest for two reasons : (1) the time at which knowledge was
probably obtained of the book seems to be definable within narrow
limits ; (2) the book-test and the context on either side are closely
linked together by a consecution of ideas natural to the ostensible
communicator, that is, my father. The sitting in question took
place on 4 October 1921, and I acted on this occasion as my own
notetaker.
Feda. He says he's met an old friend lately.
H. S. Yes?
F. But he means a man, not a lady ; some one who's passed
over recently, and he's quite an elderly man.
Stroke down and a piece on (draws P). It seems connected with
him, but as if this gentleman's interests, some important ones,
would be right away from here, from London and where you live
now. It's as if he had lived a good deal away from here. Now he's
giving a B connected with him, it's a place, a rather important
place coimected with him.
H. S. I think I know who this is, Feda.
F. He had been what J\Ir Ajthur calls an active man, but he'd
not been well for a good while before he passed over. But Mr
Arthur says he doesn't think up to a very little while before he
passed over that he was expecting to go just then. He said he
seemed rather surprised to find himself on the other side, and also
he had started, not exactly started, but attached himself to some
rather important work that he apparently intended seeing through.
This was not connected with his native place, or the place he actually
lived in. [There followed an allusion to a hospital, in which the
man in question was said to be interested.]
At home, IVIrs Nelly, you ought to have things that would connect
him with Mr Arthur. Get a feeling of^writing about him. You've
got a book with his name in.
F
322 3Irs W. H. Salter [part
H. S. Yes ?
F. Mr Arthur seems quite positive of that. One or two things
you should have that would connect him with Mr Arthur. Do you
know that they were spoken of together, linked up in a book ? Mr
Arthur's not sure if you see what he means by that at the minute ;
but as if this gentleman had done things that Mr Arthur would be
linked up with. He keeps saying a book which links them iip.
You've got the book.
H. S. I'll look.
F. He knows what the book looks like. It's so dark, the binding,
it looks black to Feda. It's a pretty thick book, about that thick
(indicates about 1| inches). And I should think it's a bigger book
altogether than the books about dukes and earls she [Mrs Leonard]
reads and thinks she'd like to write, a bigger book altogether. The
paper is not very smooth shiny paper, rather good quality, a little
bit rough. Is it letters in it, like printed letters ? No, extracts
from what different people have said. There's some extracts in it
of what different people had said. Like somebody writing a letter
and then printing pieces of it. That seems to be in this book.
[Then followed the book-test which will be discussed presently.]
He wants to say this friend of his and he will be doing some work
together, and Mr. Arthur was very pleased to meet him. Do you
know a name J that should be linked up with him ?
H. S. Yes.
F. I keep getting a big J. What's that ? Page, not in a book, a
name. Sounds like Page. He doesn't mean a page in a book, he
means a name. He seems to think that talking about this spirit
that's passed over should remind you of Page.
Another name beginning with J, not the one he mentioned before,
like Joyce-lin, Joyce and N at the end. Some one Mr Arthur knew
well here and who's also on the other side. He would be a link up
with the one who's passed recently.
The " old friend " I identified at the sitting as Professor Henry
Jackson, who had died in the latter part of September. My father
was associated with Henry Jackson during the whole of his life at
Cambridge, a period of over forty years. Both men were classical
scholars, both were Fellows of Trinity College, Cambridge, and for
many years members of the College staff. It is true of Jackson that
he was " quite an elderly man " (he was indeed an old man, over
eighty when he died). Although his health had been failing for
some years, he was at work until a short time before his death.
Of the three letters given by Feda, J is the first letter of his own
name ; P might well stand either for philosophy or for Plato
(Jackson was for many years famoiis as a teacher of Greek philo-
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings with Mrs Leonard 323
sophy, and Ms lectures on Plato and Aristotle were familiar to many
generations of Cambridge scholars) ;
B, " a rather important place
connected with him,"' I should suppose to be Bournemouth, where
his wife and family resided for many years and where Jackson
himself spent his vacations. But this habit of giving single letters
without any clear indication of the matter to which they are in-
tended to refer, I consider an imsatisfactory feature of mediumistic
sittings ; it leaves too much to conjecture. As to the statement
that he had started or " attached himself to some rather impor-
tant work that he had apparently intended seeing through," " not
connected with his native place or the place he actually lived in,"
it was stated in an obituary notice that he had been preparing a
collected edition of his papers, and it was hoped to bring this out
after his death. His papers would, of course, be connected with his
work at Cambridge, as distinct from his native place (somewhere in
the Midlands) and Bournemouth, his place of family residence. I
do not know of any special connection he had with any hospital.
There are several books in existence in which my father's name and
Jackson's are to some extent linked, and two of these are in my
possession. One of the two, Fasciculus J. W. Clark dicatus, to which
both my father and Jackson contributed together with many others,
seems to be ruled out by the fact that it is bound in a rather light
shade of brownish j^ellow, whereas the book described by Feda is
said to be so dark as to look almost black. But I have in my
possession a book in which my father and Jackson are l^inked more
closely and immediately than in the Fasciculus. In 1895 my father
brought out the first volume of his essays on Euripides the Ration-
alist. The dedication of the book rmis as follows :
" To Henry
Jackson, Litt.D., this book written in response to his suggestion is
ofiered as a small acknowledgement of many debts." The book is
bound in a very dark green, which looks almost black in a poor light.
Feda has rather overestimated its thiclvness (which is barely an
inch), but in height and width it is distinctly larger than the average
novel (9 by 6 inches). It is printed on rather good, heav}' paper,
but the paper is not rough. There are no letters in the book, but
my father's own writing is frequently interrupted by extracts from
other writers : e.g. there are one or two quotations from Paley,
several from Browning's Balaustion's Adventure, and throughout
the whole book very numerous quotations from Way's translation
of Euripides.
It was immediately after the reference to this book that Feda
interpolated the book-test (with which I shall presently deal). She
then returned to the subject of the " old friend " with the allusion
to the letter J and to the name Page. " He seems to think that
talking about this spirit that's passed over should remind you of
324 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
Page." This is an interesting point. In the year 1873 my father
was bracketed second in the Classical Tri2)os with Dr T. E. Page,
and in the following year he and Page and Henry Butcher were all
bracketed together for the Chancellor's Medals. The name Page
would therefore be closely associated in my father's mind with his
early years at Trinity and consequently with Henry Jackson.
At my next sitting on 1 November 1921 Feda referred again to
Page, and said this was the name of some one my father had known
who was " still on the earth." This statement was correct. There
have been no other references to Page in my sittings before or
since. In the reference to another name beginning with J, " Joyce
and N at the end," I think there is some confusion and that this is
an attempt at Jackson. I do not know of any name beginning
with J specially associated with Dr Jackson except his own.
I now turn to the consideration of the book-test, and I must
begin by explaining that on my way to Mrs Leonard's house (she
was then living at Oakleigh Park) I bought at Broad Street Station
a copy of the Strand Magazine for October to read in the train.
The magazine v/as bought at some time between 9.30 and 10 a.m.
and the book-test was given shortly after 11 a.m. On my arrival
at Mrs Leonard's house I laid the magazme closed on a chair. Mrs
Leonard was never alone with it and made no attempt to examine
it in my presence. After two or three minutes' conversation on
indifferent subjects, she passed as usual into trance. I now quote
again from my record :
Feda. Over on the chair, the book over on the chair. Your book
on the chair over there (indicates Strand Magazine).
H. S. In this room ?
F. Yes. Will you look about page foiu-teen ? Something there
should remind you of Mr Arthur's old haunts, old pursuits. He's
just thought of that and was afraid of losing it.
When I came to examine the Strand Magazine, I found, as was
to be expected, that it is numbered consecutively from the begin-
ning of the year. It has, however, been clearly laid down that at any
rate in the case of those book-tests for which my father is made
responsible the test is to be verified by comitmg the pages from the
beginning of the main reading matter of the book, irrespective of
the actual numbering of the pages. According to this reckoning
the fourteenth page of the October number of the Strand was^^the
page numbered 302. I could not find on this page anything to
suggest my father's old hamits in the local sense of the word ;
the
reference to his old pursuits is clear enough. Near the bottom of
the left-hand column (the Strand is printed in double columns) the
following passage occurred :
" It is all very well to excite pity and
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings with Mrs Leonard 325
terror, as Aristotle recommends, but there are limits. In the ancient
Greek tragedies it was an ironclad rule that all the real rough stufi
should take place off-stage, and I shall follow this admirable prin-
ciple." To my father's life-long preoccupation with Greek tragedy,
his many published works on Aeschylus and Euripides abundantly
testify, and it may be noted that this allusion is very aptly
interpolated in the midst of references to an old friend with whom
my father's classical interests were closely associated, the friend to
whom, as I have already mentioned, he dedicated the first of his
three volmnes of Euripidean studies, Euripides the Rationalist. The
reference in the Strand to Aristotle constitutes a further link with
Henry Jackson, whose lectures on Aristotle were a familiar
institution at Cambridge for many years.
As to possible sources of the knowledge displayed, I had not
myself at the time of the sitting read the story in which the quoted
passage occurs, but I caimot of course be certain that my eye had
not fallen on it in turning the pages. It seems, however, unlikely
that I should have made the mental calculation involved in refer-
ring to page 302 as the fourteenth page. Mrs Leonard, v/hen I
questioned her after the sitting, without giving a reason for the
question, said she had not read the October Strand, which on the
4th of October had only been out a few days, and the argument in
regard to calculating the page applies to Mrs Leonard as well as to
myself. She could, of course, have no motive for deliberately pre-
paring the test beforehand, for she could not possibly know that I
should buy the Strand that day and bring it with me to the sitting.
So far as my recollection goes, I had never done such a thing before.
I should like to add that throughout my acquaintance with Mrs
Leonard, extending now nearly fourteen years, I have always foxmd
her scrupulously honest in revealing any possible soiirce of normal
knowledge concerning matters referred to at a sitting.
I should like to point out that the whole consecution of ideas
shown in these passages from my sitting of 4 October 1921, passing
from allusions to Henry Jackson to the suddenly interpolated book-
test with its references to my father's connexion with Greek tragedy,
and then back again to Henry Jackson and the name Page (very
possibly helped to emerge by the immediately preceding allusions
to the page of a book) is a consecution of ideas perfectly natural to
the supposed communicator. I think this whole question of associa-
tion of ideas is interesting and important, because what we seem to
get in these trance sittings is not a clear stream of commimication
from any one source, but evidence of modifications and deflexions
of Mrs Leonard's mind having their origin in the influence of other
minds, possibly discarnate. Apart from all physical characteristics
a man's personality is chiefly expressed in the associations of ideas
326 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
which constitute his memory, and his reaction to any new idea or
image presented to him will be founded on these pre-existing
associations. At the sitting of 4 October 1921 we are given what
purport to be a particular commmiicator's reactions to two new
ideas, (1) the recent death of an old friend, (2) the passage from the
Strand Magazine with its allusion to Greek tragedy, and these two
ideas are linked together and combined with other ideas in a way
that would be natural to a mind that was built upon that com-
municator's memories.
(b)
As another example of a book-test which affords evidence of an
association of ideas more natural to the supposed communicator
than to Mrs Leonard, I will quote a passage from a sitting I had on
21 November 1919. The books on this occasion were chosen not
from my own house, but from the house of Lady Troubridge, who
was acting as recorder at the sitting. The books were said to be in
some shelves which, as Feda knew, had been specially reserved for
test purposes ; the position of these shelves in relation to the door
of the room was correctly given, and the height of the test-book
from the floor, as indicated by Feda, was found to correspond with
the uppermost shelf.
The first half of the test, which is confused and in part a failure,
I omit. Feda continued as follows :
Feda. Now he wants to go to the fourth book from the left, the
fourth from the end of the shelf, page six, two, sixty-two, also near
the top of the page, about a quarter of the way down, suggests
Arcadia to him, that'll be nice ! And lower down on the same page
he got the idea of drinking, something you could drink, or the act
of drinking.
The fourth book from the left in the shelf in question, as verified
by Lady Troubridge and myself, was The Bomb by Frank Harris.
I quote the first eight out of twenty-seven lines on the sixty-second
page :
" Between the acts Elsie told me that she was enjoying it
too, but she objected to Rosalind's dress. '
It wasn't decent,' she
said, '
no nice woman would wear it.' And she scoffed at the idea
that Orlando could take Rosalind for a boy, '
Unless he was a
gump ; no man would be so silly.' She did not lil^e Jacques par-
ticularly and the Court in the forest seemed to her ridiculous."
It is easy to understand how references to a performance of
Shakespeare's As You Like It, actually naming Rosalind, Orlando,
Jacques and the Court in the forest, might remind such a man as
my father of Arcadia. Arcadia, as witness amongst others Sir
Philip Sidney, is par excellence the literary name for the country of
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings loith Mrs Leonard 327
simple, sylvan life, as portrayed in As You Like It. Turning the
pages, for example, of Mr. J. B. Priestley's essay on the clown
Touchstone in his English Comic Characters I came on the sentence':
" Romance, however, having enticed him [Touchstone] into her own
green Arcadia. ..."
On the other hand, the association of Arcadia with As You Like
It is not one which seems to me likely to arise in the mind of jVIrs
Leonard. I questioned her as to her knowledge of the play, and she
told me that she had read it " probably many times over " as a
small child, but had never read it since and had never seen it acted.
She does not now care for Shakespeare.
(c)
I will now give another example of a book-test in which there is
some evidence as to the time at which knowledge of the books was
obtained. The sitter on this occasion was the Rev. W. S. Irving,
and the sitting took place on Thursday, 20 September 1928, the
notetaker being Mr N. C. Fonnereau. Mr Irving informs me that
the sitting began at 2.25 p.m. and the book-tests were given in the
earlier part of it, say, between 2.35 and 3.30 p.m. Two groups of
tests were given on this occasion, the first from my own house,
The Crown House, Newport, Essex, the second from Mr Irving's
house in Gloucestershire. It is with the first group that I am now
concerned, and it may conveniently be stated at this point that
neither Mr Irving nor JMrs Leonard has ever visited my house, from
which on one previous occasion a book-test presenting some features
of interest had been obtained at a sitting taken by Mr Irving,
After stating that the books were " in Mrs Nelly's house " (Feda
always refers to me as "Mrs Nelly"), she went on to give the
following indications for the identifying of the room :
" There are
several things of Mrs Nelly's father in the room ; there is a picture
of her father, a very good one. There's also a picture of another
man wearing a garment that her father always referred to by a very
humorous name. . . . It's rather a fmmy mixtiire of things in this
room. . . . There's a very funny contrast of things, things very new
and very old, close together ; and very serious things close to very
unserious ones . . . things more like playthings ; there are play-
things. '
I think these things must be recent additions,' she says."
The books were said to be " the first lot of books to the left as you
come in at the door." There was also said to be " a smaller book-
case " in the room, and "a set of shelves smaller."
The room at The Crown House from which these tests are taken
might at first sight be either the drawing-room or the study. On
the whole the indications fit the drawing-room best, especially the
reference to the " smaller bookcase." The three bookcases in the
328 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
study are all rather large and all about the same size. In the drawing-
room the largest bookcase—4 feet square—is to the left of the door
on entering ; there is a smaller case, 3| by 3 feet, opposite the door,
and to the right a still smaller one, 3|- feet by 1 foot wide. I did,
however, examine the books which would seem to be indicated on
the assumption that the test had been taken from the study, and
found nothing relevant. There are several things in the drawing-
room which belonged originally to my parents, e.g. a Persian carpet,
a Sheraton card-table, a clock, etc. There is not usually a portrait
of my father in the drawing-room (nor in the study, except some
photographs put away in a cupboard). But on Thursday morning,
20 September 1928, I was looking through some of the notes of my
early Leonard sittings with a view to the paper I had already begun
to write, and I came on a description of my father which reminded
me of a large framed " portrait-photograph " I have of him, which
was taken many years ago by Mrs Frederic Myers. It is considered
by people who knew him one of the best portraits of my father in
existence. This photograph was stored at the moment in my
dressing-room, and wishing to revive my recollection of it, I fetched
it down and stood it beside me on the drawing-room sofa. As near
as I can remember it was there from about 11 a.m. till a little before
1 o'clock. After that it was moved into the study.
The reference to the picture of another man is not clear. The
allusion to a garment my father called by a humorous name must,
I think, refer to the fact that my father used in domestic circles to
refer to a very old smoking-coat he wore at home as his " robe of
state." A reference to this was made spontaneously at one of my
own Leonard sittings some years before, and was acknowledged by
me at the time as a very good evidential point. But I cannot
connect an allusion to this with any " picture of another man "
either in the drawing-room or the study. In the btireau drawer in
the drawing-room there was at the time of Mr Irving's sitting a
snapshot I took of my father in his garden, wearing just the sort of
old coat he called a " robe of state," but if allusion was intended to
this photograph, there is some confusion ; it is not a picture " of
another man," but of the same man, namely, my father.
The allusion to " a funny mixture of things " in the room, " things
serious and miserious, playthings," is, I think, clear. Immediately
next to the case containing the test-books is a large oak " bible-
box." This bible-box was never in my father's possession, but it
has been in the family for a long time, and came into my possession
about a year ago. It now contains some of my little girl's toys and
books. Both the box and its contents are recent additions to the
room.
I turn now to the test itself. The first book chosen was the
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings with Mrs Leonard 329
second from the left in the lowest shelf, p. 95. On this page it was
said "there is a description of a place you and I [Mr and Mrs
Irving] Imew, were in ; an old-fashioned place, old-wprld, a village.
There's something given in the description which will point it for
you, place it. There's some characteristic there that is a strong
characteristic of a place we knew together. ... At the very begm-
ning of this book there were conditions referred to that would interest
]\Irs Nelly's father, conditions he was interested in, when on earth."
On p. 91 of the same book there is said to be something descriptive
of jMrs Irving, a rather personal characteristic.
The second book from the left in the lowest shelf of the bookcase
to the left of the door was a volume of Charles Kingsley's Poems
(Macmillan, 1872) ; pp. 91 and 95 are part of the text of a play
called " A Saint's Tragedy," which deals with the story of Elizabeth
of Bohemia. As the tests from this book were personal to Mr
Irving I sent the book to him for verification. He writes :
" On the page numbered 95 I foimd,
Monks ... we poor religious
Are bound to obey God's ordinance and submit
Unto the powers that be, who have forbidden
All men, alas ! to give you food and shelter. ...
Eliz. I'll go.
The above scene is described on p. 94 as '
A street ... at the door of
a convent. Monks in the porch.'
" About the year 1902, my wife and I, being very interested ui
monastic life, and hearing that there was a monastery of secluded
monks at Broadway in Worcestershire, cycled there and asked to
be allowed to look over the place. A foreign-looking monk who
opened the door could not speak English ; he tried to send us away.
We would not go, as we had come a long way to see the place, so
at last he admitted us. Presently angry and threatening voices
were heard, and a red-faced Irish priest rushed in shoutmg, ' Get
out, ladies are not allowed in the monastery.' He would not listen
to our explanations, so we had to go. Broadway is an old-world
village, an old-fashioned rural spot, as described. I still have a
photograph of the monastery chapel, obtained about the same time.
" On the page numbered 91, I found :
Your smiles are worth gold pieces.
My wife's gay smile was one of her greatest attractions. In a letter
which I still have, witten to me by a parishioner just after my
wife's death, is the following :
'
Her happy face and bright smile
always seem to do one good to see.' " ^
1 1 have seen this letter.—H. S.
330 Mrs W. H. Salter [part
With regard to tlie statement that right at the beginning of the
book there were conditions referred to that would interest my
father, I could not find anything that seemed altogether satisfactory.
On the title-page of the book appears the name " Andromeda," the
title of one of the principal poems, and the two parts of the " Proem "
to " A Saint's Tragedy," the first poem in the book, are called
respectively " Epimetheus " and " Prometheus." All these names
would have associations interesting to a classical scholar, but the
mere occurrence of the names hardly seems to fulfil the requirements
of the test.
I now turn again to the record of the sitting :
Feda. She says, " on the outside of a book close to this one [the
Kingsley Poems] is a name of her's, but she doesn't think it's Dora
[Mrs Irving's Christian name], but another name. It's on the out-
side. . . . Wait a minute ! She got a name like Watson, Watson,
Watson, on the outside of a book close here." Then she says, " It's
an ordinary name, but I picked it up rather personally, because it
fitted in, was a name of some one I knew rather well here on the
earth. . . . Watson."
The book standing immediately next to the test-book and three
other books in the same shelf were volumes of poetry by William
Watson, and in each case the name Watson appeared on the back
of the book. I am informed by Mr Irving that Watson was the
name of a married sister of J\lrs Irving's who died in the spring of
this year. The name has never been given at his sittings before.
I did not make Mr Irving's acquaintance imtil some years after his
wife's death, and I know nothing whatever of Mrs Irving's
family connexions except the irrelevant fact that her maiden name
was Whitehead. It will be seen that the statements made in this
part of the test seem to combine knowledge concerning the position
and title of books at my house (possibly derivable from my mind)
with knowledge of a personal link existing between the name
Watson and Mrs Irving, not derivable from me, nor, so far as can be
ascertained, normally possessed by the medium.
Upon this point Mr Irving tells me that Mrs Watson had never
visited him at his present home, nor were he and Mrs Irving in the
habit of discussing family matters with parishioners, so that the
name would not have been easily learnt by local enquiries. After
the allusion to Watson, the record of Mr Irving's sitting continues
thus :
Feda. " Now," she says, " go along this shelf, the seventh book
from the left." When she touched this book she wanted to say
'
How are the mighty fallen ! How are the mighty fallen !
'
That's
116] Incidents Occurring at Sittings with Mrs Leonard 331
what she kept saying. ... She says that book gave her such a
strong feeling on it that she wants to repeat these words. On the
book something on the book. She says, '
Mrs Nelly will probably
understand that, will, indeed, understand that before you do.
In the early part of this book, which proved to be The Thoughts
of Marcus AureUus (The World's Classics), there were said to be
geocrraphical comparisons," " plans and comparisons of distances,
and on p. 53 a reference to " rivers or streams, running water and
also to a special anniversary connected with Mr and Mrs Irvmg.
This part of the test is not satisfactory. The only point which
seems worth noting here is that on p. 52, which touches p. 53 when
the book is closed, are the words " all flow from the same fount.
Feda frequently alleges the liability of communicators to confuse two
adjacent pages. If we include the two pages adjacent to the test-
page in our range, we thereby multiply by three the possibi ity of
chance-coincidence, and a success of this kind has no evidential
value unless, as in this case, there is a fairly close correspondence
between the communicator- s statement and the printed matter.
Even so, the point should in my opinion be reckoned doubtful.
The words "How are the mighty fallen," which the communi-
cator emphasises in connexion with this same book, might easily
occur to the mind of a scholar or a student of the Roman Empire
in allusion to the fact that the death of Marcus Aurelius closes an
important and splendid epoch in the world's history ;
he was the
last of the great pagan philosophers and also the last of the great
Roman emperors. I will give two quotations from Frederic Myers
and Gibbon to illustrate my meaning: "And, finally the most
subtle and attractive of living historians has closed his strange
portrait gallery with this majestic figure [M. Aurelius] accounting
that the sun of Christianity was not fully risen till it had seen the
paling of the old world's last and purest star.' ^ And, it is
the design of this, and of the two succeeding chapters, to describe the
prosperous condition of their [the Roman] empire ;
and afterwards
from the death of Marcus Antoninus, to deduce the most important
circumstances of its decline and fall."
^
It is worth noting that throughout this group of tests my lather,
to whom the circumstances of Marcus Aurelms's life and times
were a matter of familiar knowledge, appears to be associated with
Mrs Irving, and that in reference to this particular test it is said
that
"
Mrs Nelly will probably understand that, will indeed uiider-
stand it before you do." The interpretation of the words How
are the mighty fallen," which I have given above, did m fact occur
1
F. W. H. Myers, Classical Essays, " Marcus Aurelius Antoninus," p. 177.
2 Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, ch. i.
332 Mrs W. H. Salter [part 116]
at once to my mind. But this point, again, is not a strong one ; it
suffers from the defect, all too common in book-tests, that the
meaning is not sufficiently obvious and on the surface ; too much
interpretation is needed.
Omitting a reference to something on the outside of another
book in the same shelf, the interpretation of which is doubtful, I
turn to the last test in the series, which is said to have been given
by A. W. V. with Mrs Irving's assistance.
Feda. He went on to the shelf above the one Dora was on ; ... he
took the third book from the right and he took page seven of that
book ; and on page seven was something very characteristic of the
Image. [Feda then explains to Mr Irving that " the Image " is
my little girl and continues.] There's something on that page that's
very much to do with the Image, that refers to the Image, and he
wanted it called the Image because of what's on that page.
The third book from the right in the shelf indicated was Gil-
christ's Life and Work of William Blake (1880), vol. i. Page 7 is
part of a chapter concerning Blake's childhood and the word
" childhood " appears as a chapter-heading at the top of the page.
I will quote from the bottom of page 6 : ..." and then unsophis-
ticate green field and hedge row opened on the [p. 7] child's
delighted eyes. A mile or two further through the large and pleasant
village of Camberwell . . . the sweet hill and sylvan wilds of rural
Dulwich . . . the fertile verdant meads of Walton-upon-Thames ;
much of the way by lane and footpath. The beauty of those scenes
in his youth was a lifelong reminiscence with Blake, and stored his
mind with lifelong pastoral images."
My daughter, just three years old,^ is called Imogen. At the
first sitting I had with Mrs Leonard after her birth I was told by
Feda that my father intended to refer to her as " the Image," and
she has habitually been called by that name at my subsequent sit-
tings. Whether Mrs Leonard has, or had at the time " the Image "
was first referred to, any normal knowledge of my daughter's name,
I cannot say, nor is the question material here. I take the reference
in the test to be to the country scenes and " the child's delighted
eyes.'' We live in a comitry village with fields and woodland all
about us, and the love of flowers, which is characteristic of most
small children, is very marked in Imogen. She usually notices any
new flower she sees on her walks and asks its name. It will be
observed that at the end of the paragraph from Gilchrist quoted
above the word " images " occurs, making a definite link with the
child's name. This I take to be the meaning of the words " he
wanted it called the Image, because of what's on that page."
^ This section of the paper was written in January 1929.
THOUGHTS ON MR SALTMARSH'S REPORT ON A SERIES
OF SITTINGS.
By the Rev. W. S. Irving.
In venturing to put down a few thoughts that have been suggested
to me by J\Ir Saltmarsh's comprehensive and stimulating " Report
on the Investigation of Some Sittings with Mrs Warren Elliott
"
{Proceedings, xxxix. 47 iJ.), I am emboldened to do so, not only
because he has on several occasions referred to sittings taken by
me, but also because it has been possible for me to compare his
results with a large number of my own sittings mainly taken with
Mrs Osborne Leonard.
On page 91 of his paper, Mr Saltniarsh says with regard to post-
mortem statements concerning the commimicator, " It is, of course,
impossible to say whether they are veridical or not." If, however,
we find that statements of a somewhat unusual nature are made by
two or more Controls, through different mediums, to independent
sitters, such statements may, I think, at least be said to be worthy
of consideration, and to have some small amoimt of evidential
value. And there would seem to be a correspondence of this kind
(with material given to me at a Leonard sitting) on page 86, as
follows :
" Him says him getting used to him's mind once more as
if him was young. It was something here in life that sort of robbed
him of something, and now him sort of learning . . . learning to use
him's mind . . . seemed as if him was child again and him couldn't
develop—growth ceased—and now him got all that to make up."
At a sitting with Mrs Leonard on 30 April 1925, my communicator
brought with her to commimicate a man who claimed to have been
someone I used to know. I was able to identify him quite definitely
as a former Vicar of mine who had also been Chaplain to the Coimty
Lmatic Asylum. At another sitting on 31 July 1925, my com-
municator referred to him again in Personal Control, and it is what
she said then that makes the correspondence with the extract from
the " X Case " : "... He's working very hard. (What's he doing ?)
V/orking for the poor demented. . . . There aren't any on our side
—those still on your side. . . . People aren't demented on our side,
but there are people who canH use their minds because they've got to
333
334 The Rev. W. S. Irving [part
learn to iise them. People who've been, what you call. '
out of their
minds '
find difficulty at first in using them, but it comes all right
in a little while."
On page 124 Mr Saltmarsh suggests that " Feda does receive a
good deal more of her information by means of symbols than
appears on the surface," and he illustrates this from an incident at
one of my sittings in which Feda says " the test is mackintoshes
and umbrellas test is."' To anyone reading the script I can see that
this may appear to be the interpretation of a symbol given by the
communicator. This was not, however, how it appeared at the
sitting. I took it to be simply a joke of Feda's—promptly squashed
by the communicator in the words, "No . . . water-tight." And
on tiurning to my index of those sittings I find the incident classed
among " Humorous sayings of Feda." Of course, my interpretation
may not be the right one, but there is not much use of symbolism
in my Leonard sittings, and when symbols are used care seems to
be taken by Feda to let us know. There was such an instance in a
recent sitting of mine with this medium, when it was desired to
give the name of a lady who had passed over, and it had not been
possible to give it. Feda said, " There's a name connected with
this lady I can only give symbolically. Very much connected with
fixes and burning, like as if a gentleman were called Mr Cinder, do
you see ? . . . Dora thinJcs of this lady in connection with tea and
cakes l
" By a process of elimination, I managed at last to identify
the person to my own satisfaction, as a JMrs Baker. It is seldom,
however, that instances of this kind have occurred at my sittings.
Humour by Feda is frequent, especially at good sittings, and tends
to lighten the strain, and I think improve the material.
On page 126, Mr Saltmarsh mentions the " great difficulty in
getting through proper names." Nevertheless, quite a number of
names have been given to me on occasion, through Feda, spontane-
ously, which I have been able to recognise, among them being
Jesson, Hadow [notetaker had Haddo], Sharp, Watson, and Miller.
And Topsy once described a communicator, said to be Mr Charlie
[Colonel Baddeley], as saying something about a Mrs Murbing.
" This gentleman says that he's met Mrs, like, Murbing, she's been
very good to him, and he likes her very mixch."
When one remembers Topsy's way of putting M's or N's on to
words, it is not so bad an attempt at my wife's simiame. The above
quotation is from a sitting on 4 February 1925 (Recorder : Dr
Woolley), and was taken nearly a year before the date on which
Mrs Elliott learned my name normally.
On page 107, Mr Saltmarsh alludes to " the numerous references
to Miss Newton's recent thoughts or actions obtained " by me,
through Mrs Leonard, and published in Proceedings. These he
116] Thoughts on Mr SaltmarsVs Report of Sittings 335
seems inclined to put down to telepathy or clairvoyance, acting
sporadically. It should be noticed, however, that it is by no naeans
the case that all these " Impression " tests were known to Miss
Newton. Even in those taken from the S.P.R. Rooms, there are a
number concerning things of which Miss Newton knew nothing.
Some of the best of these have not, as yet, been published, but a
few have, and the " cupid " case on page 197 of volume xxxvi is a
good example of what I mean. In this case my communicator said,
at a sitting with Mrs Leonard on 23 September 1924, that at the
" Psychical 'Searchers " she got the " word '
cupid '
coming to her
strongly." She thought " they must have that word written very
largely on something that has been discussed, or written there,
lately." Miss Newton's note on the above was :
" Mrs Ham, the
housekeeper at 31 Tavistock Square, showed me to-day (September
29, 1924) a white china cupid which had been given her by our
tenant's housekeeper,' when leaving, some time during the first half
of August. Neither Miss Horsell, Mr Dingwall, nor I knew anything
about this until Mrs Ham told me . . . when I enquired on September
29. ..."
In the same volume, some on pages 191-2, is a short series of
these tests that seem to have been found at the Rooms of the
London Spiritualist Alliance, and on pages 242-5 a longer series
from a house unknown to Miss Newton, and not well known to me.
Further tests of this nature, not yet published, come from a house
that is not known to me at all—though in this last case I under-
stand that the occupier has herself had sittings with Mrs Leonard.
These are from the house of the lady referred to in Proceedings,
xxxix, on pages 141-2. The telepathy, therefore, if telepathy it be,
can hardly be of a simple nature, directly from mind to mind, nor
would any direct form of clairvoyance meet the whole of these cases.
Concerning Apparent Discontintiity in Communications.
On page 132, Mr Saltmarsh speaks of the " disjointedness and
lack of continuity in the commimications. . . . The '
spirits '
do
not tell us what we should expect from them. The salient facts of
their history are frequently omitted, and trivial details given."
That this statement would be incorrect as regards Leonard sittings
at least, I venture to submit. To begin with, the memory of the
commimicator, through Feda, is extraordinary. Dora, for instance,
has alluded (practically without repetition) to most of the important
events of her life. At my last sitting she went back about 32 years
to find her subject for an interesting reminiscence. And there does
not seem to be overlapping in material given through different
mediums concerning the past.
336 The Rev. W. S. Irving [part
But perhaps Mr Saltmarsh is thinking of the apparently discon-
nected way in which incidents are brought forward at single sittings.
I mean incidents that seem to have no line of thought connecting
them with each other, but to have been given haphazard. As far
back as 20 September 1921, my commmiicator referred to this,
spontaneously, as follows :
" [Feda] . . . Sometimes when you're
tracing a thing through your notes, do you find she speaks of one
thing, goes on to another, and links up to earlier one ? She says,
'
I give Fact no. 1, Fact no. 2, Fact no. 3, and Fact no. 3 is a distinct
link up with Fact no. 1. I'm not always able to make Feda imder-
stand that.' " Bearing this in mind, I have from time to time been
able to trace the line of thought imderlying Leonard material and
to see the connexion that otherwise might have escaped notice.
This can be easily illustrated from recent sittings fresh in my
memory. On 23 April 1929, at a Leonard sitting, subject no. 2
was a reminiscence of an expedition taken many years ago, with
my wife, to look at some " big lumps of stone—very old," so that
we said, " Strange how long these must have been here." Subject
no. 3 had no connexion with the above. Subject no. 4 was a careful
description of the design on a round or oval brass article belonging
to my wife, which I still use but in a different way to the way in
which she had used it. This I recognised as a good description of
her brass afternoon tea-tray. At first sight there is no connection
between the subject no. 2 and subject no. 4. Nevertheless, through
the giving of the latter, I was able to place beyond doubt the identity
of the former. The brass tea-tray I gave to my wife when we went
to live at Leckhanipton, and the lumps of stone represent " The
Devil's Chimney " at Leckhamptou, though the visit referred to
was made, I thinli, many years before we went to live there.
Here is another example, from a sitting with Mrs Leonard on
Thursday, 19 September 1929. This is an attempt to show know-
ledge of what I had just been doing on my holiday, and continued
interest therein. Subject no. 1 describes my looking in a shop
window. Subject no. 3 is a description of a tea-shop to which my
wife used to go in Richmond, Yorkshire, with its surroundings
carefully described. Subject no. 4 describes a present that I gave
my wife for her to use and enjoy, and the statement is made it will
be brought into a book-test. This point is not definite enough for
certainty, as it does not state what the present is. I take it to be
another reference to the brass tea-tray mentioned above. Subjects
nos. 5-11 are not connected with the above. Subject no. 12 de-
scribes a room in my sister's new house at Richmond, Yorkshire, in
detail, and " something circular shape, in brass," is referred to.
These things seem disconnected—they are not. In the room de-
scribed in subject 12 1 decided to buy my sister a brass tea-tray like
116] Thoughts on Mr Saltmarsh's Report of Sittings 337
the one I bought my wife long ago. Subject no. 1 describes my
looking in London for trays in shop windows. Subject no. 3 shows
knowledge of where the place is where I have been staying
—
Richmond—and describes a shop, long since forgotten by me, where
my wife used to go for tea and cakes. This was identified by my
sister. I should add that the shop's description is very unusual, up
" a narrow turning upstairs " . . .
" old-fashioned place
"
..." steps inside dark," etc. That behind the scenes, as it were,
there is an acute intelligence, with considerable knowledge of the
past lives of myself and my wife, with the power, also, to plan
ahead, and arrange beforehand, the programme for the next sitting,
is, at least, a simple explanation of the phenomena. For an example
of this latter point, the power to plan ahead, I next give another
extract from my latest sittings of all.
A few days before leaving home for my summer holiday, on
2 September 1929, I had read in the paper by Mr Saltmarsh the
Warren Elliott description, in an Absent Sitter sitting, of my sister
in chuich, wearing a " shawl, buff with red check," and a hat " very
like a man's tall hat." I had thus been reminded of a plaid shawl.
On Monday, 16 September 1929, at a sitting with ]\Iis Leonard,
I noticed that she was wearing a lighter coloured shawl than the
one that she usually wears. In view of what was said at the sitting,
1 I asked to be allowed to look at the shawl afterwards, and foimd
that, in certain respects, it was rather like the description of the
supposed shawl belonging to my sister. It was part plaid, grey and
buff, near the edge, though the greater part of the shawl was grey.
This is important as showing what my subconscious mind may have
grasped, though the light was none too good, and consciously, I
noticed nothing of this before the sitting. The effect on my com-
municator is given below :
Extract from Sitting with Mrs Leonard, 16 September 1929.
Sitter : Rev. W. S. Irving, taking his awn notes, as the note-
taker left at the end of Feda's Control.
D. G. I. ... Will ! I've got a shawl on. [Control had been
fidgetting with the shawl, feeling it with her fingers.] Reminds me
'
of something—of a shawl I had. Not this colour—pale grey.
(Describe it.) Greyish, got something else on it, too, another shade
or colour in it too, I think. One I used while here—right towards
the end of my [life]. (You ought to remember more than that.)
Will, it's because there are other things. . . . Will ! Don't you
know, I"ve a special reason for reminding you of that shawl ?
(That shawl, or a shawl ?) That very same shawl. You've reminded
me of it. Not that same shawl—that's impossible—something you
G
338 The Rev. W. 8. Irving [PAET
were thinking of lately, quite lately, a few days ago. I didn't see
the shawl—that shawl. That shawl was linked with my passing,
and something happened about the shawl, vfhen I was here. Oh,
dear ! Oh ! That's the very thing I wanted to say. (Next time.)
Rather important. A bit worrying about the shawl. Rather
important shawl—bringing it for me. (That's right.) Getting it
specially for me. Fetching it for me. Putting it romid me. Oh,
dear ! It was this one [Mrs Leonard's] reminded me, but it wasn't
like it. Feeling it reminded me. Connected with a special time, the
shawl was. Do you remember about an anniversary connected
with it ? (No.) But I do,—an anniversary. I look back on that
shawl as something rather important. Briugmg it to me at an
important time. Fetching it, putting. Going away. Will ! I'm
losing (Try and bring it in next.). . . . [Sitting ends with farewells.]
My wife had a beautiful Egyptian scarf or shawl, which she
valued greatly and used up to the time of her death. It was bought
by her father, in 1911. After the sitting, I met one of my wife's
sisters, Mrs Savy, and asked her to describe the shawl for me in
writing. This was on the following Wednesday. I also wrote to
her mother, Mrs Whitehead, and asked her to tell me anything she
could remember about the shawl.
The following is the evidential part of Mrs Whitehead's reply
(26 September 1929) :
" It is interesting to know that Dora has
mentioned her Egyptian scarf. ... It was amongst the things you
allowed me to bring away . . . after the funeral. ... I remember
Dickie [Mrs Savy] had this particular article. ... Mr W. brought
six from Egypt—one each for the five girls and one for me. . . .
The colour of the scarf was cream bespangled with gold tinsel in an
artistic design. [But see below.] Its width about 24 or 26 inches
and length about 54 inches. ... It was given her on her father's
return from Egypt in the month of April 1911 . . . given them
unassociated with any anniversary of birthdays, etc.
Mrs Savy wrote (8 October 1929) :
" The following is a descrip-
tion to the best of my recollection of the Egyptian scarf or shawl
which belonged to my sister Dora and which was sent to me amongst
other personal things of hers, shortly after her death. A shawl
about a yard and a half to two yards long, and about half a yard
wide, made of net of a dull white, or more exactly greyish colour,
the net being interwoven with a design of silver-coloured tinsel."
My own recollection—and I saw the shawl much more often than
the others did—is that it was of pale mauve, or pale grey, heavily
weighted with silver. I do not know of any amiiversary connected
with it, save that it marked Mr Whitehead's return after many
116] Thoughts on Mr Saltmarsh's Report of Sittings 339
months' absence. The following April, however, was a very impor-
tant time for us.
Three days later, i.e. on 19 September 1929, I had another sitting
with Mrs Leonard. It must be noted that I had not been home
since leaving there on 2 September 1929, nor had I heard from
anyone at my Vicarage.
Extract from a Sitting with Mrs Leonard on 19 September 1929.
Sitter : Rev. W. S. Irving. Recorder : Mr N. C. Fonnereau.
Feda. Now she want to go home to some books. (Eight.) Mr
Bill ! She's going to an old place. (Good.) The shelves that she's
been to before. What's that, Dora ? . . . Now, Mr Bill ! She's
taking one—two. She's taking, IVIr Bill, the second shelf—second.
That's right ! Second. And she's going to the third book from the
left, and she's looking at the page sixty-three, and on it you'll find
a reference to something she was talking about at the end of the
last sitting here. Do you remember what I was talking about at
my Personal Control right at the end 1 (Yes.) There's a reference
to it there—words that would describe it. Page sixty-three. (About
a shawl ?) Yes, she says, yes. And, on forty-one, forty-one, of the
same book, there's another reference connected with the same thing.
Directly I got home, I asked my housekeeper to go with me to
my drawing-room, and in her presence I counted the books and
found those from which the tests were taken, i.e. the third and fifth
books from the left, second shelf up. The titles I wrote on a piece
of paper, which I gave to my housekeeper to keeji until a friend
could come in and question her on the matter, and properly witness
the books. The third book from the left, second shelf up, was The
Reproach of Islam, by W. H. T. Gairdner (London 1910). On page 63
I found, " Whence came it ? . . . the Islam of Mohammed." These
words were the heading of the page, and on the second line, not
coimting the heading. On page 41 I found :
" Whence came it ?
. . . the Ai'abian nation. ..." Also, between pages 40 and 41 was a
full-page picture entitled " Crossing the Desert." This picture
shows some Arabs crossing the desert on foot, and these appear to
be men. There is also an Arab on a donkey, and two Arabian
women riding on a camel. The last is particularly prominent in the
picture. Behind the women, on the camel, is a large bmidle of rich
merchandise,—it looks not milike a bimdle of shawls, or stuff of
that kind.
It should be noted that an attempt was made, apparently, to give,
through Mrs Mason, a book-test from this book on 30 July 1929,
so that this book was among some that I had recently handled.
On the other hand, the tests were then said to be on page 13 or 18,
g2
340 The Bev. W. S. Irving [PABT
not near the present test-pages, though I may have looked further.
And, of course, the subject of shawls had not then become to me a
subject of special interest. I take it that my communicator is here
trying to tell us that feeling Mrs Leonard's new shawl on her
shoulders, while controlling, reminded her : (1) Of her own Egyptian
shawl ; (2) That this is not the first time that she has recently been
reminded of it. I do not recall myself having thought of my wife's
shawl for months—if not years.
And then, again, there is another thing that would seem to be
evidence of continuity of thought : the occasional giving of addi-
tional material said to have been forgotten at a former sitting.
Here is an instance. At a Leonard sitting on 16 September 1929,
my communicator mentioned a number of minor trivial things that
she said she had recently seen or been reminded of, at home. On
19 September she again gave, through Feda, a few more. Later, in
the Personal Control on that day, she said as follows.
D. G. L ... Will ! Can you remember, were you thinking of any-
thing in connection with coins and pieces of money ? I got such a
strong feeling of coins before the last sitting. I tvas going to mention
it then, and forgot. In case you've forgotten, the coins should have
reminded you of me. Coins I knew when I was here, and touched
—
handled. It's the only reason they're important. I didn't want
you to think I meant some ancient and valuable coins. When I
passed over I loved them—left them—behind. . . .
I may just say, in passing, that years ago I used to collect coins,
old azad foreign. Shortly before leaving home for this holiday, I
came across, in a drawer, a chain bangle of my wife's to which she
had attached two coins annexed from my collection. They are not
of any value, a Jubilee Victoria token, and a Swiss coin dated 1880.
The interesting point is, of course, that this little bit of evidence
would seem to have been part of the former sitting's programme
that was omitted through forgetfulness at the time. It will be
noted that I had not been home between the two sittings.
Turning now to my Warren Elliott sittings, I find a similar state-
ment concerning the difficulty of getting things through in connected
order, to the one quoted a,bove given through Feda. It was given
on 19 November 1926, and runs as follows :
TopsY. She'm says that she'm always working hard. After one
talk she starts working very hard to collect her power, and lot of
sort of test things, to be able to shoot out next talk. Gets quite a
collection, and then chooses power according to what she can get
through. That's why things sometimes are so scattered, does you
understand ? .
-
.
,
116] Thoughts on Mr Saltmarsh's Report of Sittings 341
Nevertheless, the evidence for this, through this particular
medium, would not, I think, be strong were it not supplemented by
other things such as cross-correspondence with Leonard material.
Here, however, are two instances, of varying types, both apparently
concerning the same people, Mr and Mrs Y., who at one time figured
somewhat largely in tests given to me through Mrs Leonard (see
Proceedings, xxxvi. 239 ff.).
Extracts from a Sitting tvith Mrs Warren Elliott on 23 September
1925. Sitter : Rev. W. S. Irving. Recorder : Mrs Dingwall.
TOPSY. Doesn't you like potatoes ? Then why does she show
Topsy potatoes and laughs at you ? [This was item no. 33.
Items no. 34-38 concerned matters apparently having no con-
nection with the Y's. Item no. 39, however, runs as follows] :
Topsy. She keeps on saying she likes it better without table-
cloths. Do you know what she means ? (No.) You ask at home,
see what's meant.
After the sitting I was going to the Y's to dinner. On one of
the last occasions that I had dined with them there had been no
vegetables but potatoes, and this had been the subject of the
" shortage of vegetables " test (Leonard), published in Proceedings,
xxxvi. 244, and corresponding note on page 249. Further, the Y's
are almost the only people I know, just now, who do not use table-
cloths at dinner—a custom that my wife, in life, thought good
—
though we did not adopt it ourselves.
The other instance has, imfortunately, to be given at some length
as there is much confusion and extraneous matter, which, if omitted,
would make the case seem stronger than it is :
Extracts from a Sitting ivith Mrs Warren Elliott on 4 May 1927.
Sitter : Rev. W. S. Irving. Recorder : Miss Horsell.
Topsy. [Item 4.] . . . There's a lady crossed over where you is,
fairly young, got young children, doesn't know how long ago, but
she looking after lady crossed over rather young. Me thinks you
know her. . . .
[Item 13.] . . . You know that lady you spoke about crossed over ?
She's like downstairs from the hill, low down. . . .
[Item 1^6.] . . . Have you got garden and trees and garden ? . . .
No ! It's not those trees—it's somewhere that way where people
buried. She says. There's five new places below her, do you under-
stand ? (I've got an idea.) Well ! Something sad happened, and
one of those places somebody crossed over, and sad circumstances.
Me think there's two people bm-ied together. Me doesn't think it
342 '
•
- The Rev. W. S. Irving ' •
[part 1 16]
anything important your life, or her life, just to show you she
knows what's going on there. Looks like it was somebody young,
and somebody fairly old. . . .
[Item 21.] What fashionable crowd you get your Church now.
Something she amused about. It's new family, or new one, or two
families, look like older people, and some yoimg people. . . .
[Item 30.] You does understand how to comfort and help more
when you come face to face with sorrow, and she particularly think-
ing of people connected with that lady told you about at the
beginning. . . .
With regard to the above scattered items :
, [4.] About a year before this sitting, Mrs Y. had been taken
suddenly ill in London. She was brought to her father-in-law's
house about two miles from my Vicarage, and died soon after,
aged 34. She left one child, a small boy.
[13.] Mrs Y. was buried in my churchyard at Oxenhall. My
Church is on a hill, and the ground slopes down slightly from the
main door of the Church to the boundary wall. Mrs Y's grave is
nearest the wall.
[16.] Mrs Y's grave is next to that of my wife. She is the only
young married woman, according to our Registers, that has been
buried in this churchyard in very recent years. Unfortunately this
point is weakened in value because on 19 June 1926 a man who
had been killed by a bull, and his little boy, were buried together ;
and on 2 March 1926 and 2 June 1926 a woman and her grand-
daughter were buried near together. They had, however, no strong
personal touch with me beyond the fact that they were parishioners
well known. The Y's are personal friends.
[21.] On Easter day, 17 April 1927, only 17 days before this sitting,
Mr Y. attended at the 8.30 a.m. service at Oxenhall with a lady,
and at 11.0 a.m., on the same day, he brought a small party,
including his father, a lady, and, I think, his small boy, to my other
Church at Pauntley. As my own parishioners are mainly small
farmers and labourers, it is of interest when visitors from the big
houses in the neighbourhood come to owr chiirch.
REVIEW.
Upton Sinclair, Mental Radio : Does it Work, and How ? With
an Introduction by Professor William McDougall. London :
T. Werner Laurie, 1930. 8vo, pp. 207, 281 ill. Price 8s. 6d. net.
This book by the well-known American novelist and writer on
social subjects, Mr Upton Sinclair, is an important one. By Mental
Radio is meant telepathic communication between two minds, and
we have here a valuable addition to our evidence concerning experi-
mental telepathy. It contains a careful accoimt of experiments
carried out in 1928-1929 in which Mrs Upton Sinclair was the
percipient, and other persons, chiefly her husband, the agent.
Earlier experiences of Mrs Sinclair, spontaneous and other, are
described, but the main object of the book is to describe and discuss
experiments in the transference of rough drawings looked at by
the agent and which, without seeing them, the percipient attempted
to imitate, often with great success. The experiments resemble
some that have been described in the Proceedings of our Society
(especially the earlier volumes) and in Phantasms of the Living.
Out of 290 such experiments for which 38 drawings were supplied
by Mr Sinclair's secretary and 252 by himself he coimts 23 per cent,
as successful, 53 per cent, as partially successful, and 24 per cent, as
failures. No doubt individual opinions will differ somewhat as to
where exactly the line should be drawn between successes, partial
successes and failures, but we are given in the book a large propor-
tion of the drawings—agent's and percipient's—in the experiments
classed as successful, and a considerable proportion of those
classed as partially successful, so that readers can judge for them-
selves of the author's standard ; and they will not, I think, after
reading the book, or even the first two chapters, feel any doubt
that Mrs Sinclair's success is far beyond what chance could produce.
To the experiments in telepathy is added a chapter (Chapter IX)
on experiments in clairvoyance rather of the book-test order. These
are interesting and will, it is to be hoped, be continued. But
they do not appear to have been carried out, or at least are not
described, with the same care and minuteness as the telepathic ones.
Mrs Sinclair's experiments were all done in full consciousness,
without trance, and she is thus able to remember and give a careful
343
344 Review [part
analysis of the mental process, so far as she is aware of it, through
which she obtains the telepathic impressions, and of the technique
she has found useful in getting into the right state of mind. This
she does in Chapter XXI. An account of this kind by a person so
much interested, and so well able to express herself, greatly adds to
the value of the book, and will be useful to other experimenters.
Mrs Sinclair, however, would not maintain that there is only one
possible method, or that the kind of deliberate concentration she
finds useful is always necessary. She herself sometimes receives
with no deliberate effort both waking and dreaming impressions,
some of which are described in the book, of the thoughts and feel-
ings and doings of others, especially of her husband. Moreover,
we cannot assume that the same technique would always be the best
for all percipients.
Mrs Sinclair does not in this chapter about her method tell us
much about different individual impressions and the way they
developed in her mind, though she tells us something. Various
things may, however, be deduced from experiments illustrated and
discussed in the book. It seems clear, for instance, that, as has
been previously observed in similar series of experiments {e.g. Mr
Guthrie's, Proceedings, vol. ii), that it is sometimes the form of the
agent's drawing that influences the percipient and sometimes the
idea behind it. V/hen for a letter y in current writing the percipient
produced a capital Y as in print, it is clear that what was transmitted
was the idea or the name of that letter, not its shape (p. 79, no. 33).
And again when Mr Sinclair draws (very roughly, for neither agents
nor percipient are artists) a volcano with thick black smoke issuing
from the crater, and Mrs Sinclair draws an absurdly similar picture,
but calls it a black beetle—the black smoke representing the body
of an insect and the sides of the mountain its antennae—it is clearly
the form of the object, not its name, that is transferred (p. 70, no. 25).
Sometimes other telepathic ideas reinforcing memory associations
seem to intrude themselves into the percipient's impression. Mr
Sinclair calls attention to a case of this sort on p. 42 (no. 15). He
drew a football " neatly laced up." This was reproduced as a
" belly-band on calf." Except that the outline of the percipient's
drawing had a sort of projection at one point representing apparently
the calf's head, the two drawings are distinctly like each other.
Whence the idea of the animal ? While Mrs Sinclair was trying to
get the required impression it appears that her husband was reading
" a treatise on the feeding of cows," which may have telepathically
brought cows to the percipient's mind, and this with the draw-
ing of the football may have revived for her the idea of " a calf
sewed up like a football " which, as it happened, had been one
familiar to her as a child.
116] Review 345
In the particular experiments I have mentioned agent and per-
cipient were no further apart than adjoining rooms, but as Mr
Sinclair remarks (p. 11) telepathy " works as well over forty miles
as over thirty feet." Mrs Sinclair did five experiments with a
brother-in-law living forty miles off, as agent, which were all
successes or partial successes (Chapter VII). These experiments
were done on five different days at hours agreed on beforehand, the
drawings being compared later. They may be called single experi-
ments as distinguished from those in which Mr Sinclair was agent.
It is to be regretted that we have not more such single experiments,
but Mr Sinclair's usual plan was to prepare batches of six to twelve
(on one occasion fourteen) drawings at a time, which were then
placed beside Mrs Sinclair, each enclosed in an envelope or otherwise
arranged so that she should not see them. She went through the
whole batch one by one, holding each successively in her hand and
drawing what she mentally saw." The order in which she took
them seems to have been haphazard and not known to Mr Sinclair.
This plan of working through batches just prepared by the agent
is doubtless convenient, and a less severe tax on the agent's time
than single experiments. But it adds complications in some ways.
The agent presumably has the whole batch more or less in his mind
while the percipient is trying to get impressions. She holds one of
the batch in her hand, saying to herself, " I want the picture which
is on this card, or paper, presented to my consciousness "
(p. 174).
But it sometimes happens that the impression received corresponds
not to the drawing she is holding, but to one later in the series.
Several examples of such anticipations are given in Chapters XIV
and XV. It seems unlikely that they are in any real sense pre-
monitions, for the agent, as aheady said, has the whole batch in his
mind and any one might be transferred. A more difficult question
is why when, under these circumstances, a correct impression is
received, it is usually of the drawing held by the percipient ? Is
there clairvoyance supporting telepathy ? A very peculiar case of
this anticipation is no. 58, p. 101. Two drawings by a stranger to
the percipient had been inserted in a batch of drawings by Mr
Sinclair's secretary. The percipient failed to " get " the first of
these, " seeing " instead a grotesque figure which she described in
detail. The description corresponded quite remarkably well with
the stranger's second drawing, which came seven drawings further
on in the batch. What was the influence in Mrs Sinclair's mind
connecting the stranger's two drawings ?
The plan of working with batches of drawings has enabled Mrs
Sinclair to make an observation agreeing with what Miss Jephson
found in her experiments in clairvoyant card guessing. Her per-
cipients, it will be remembered, " guessed " in batches of five, and
346 Review [part 116]
she found a distinct tendency to greater success at the beginning than
at the end of a batch [Proceedings, xxxviii. 230 ff.). Mrs Sinclair
in her chapter on technique says (p. 185), " I found that, in doing
a series of several drawings, the percentage of successes was higher
in the first three attemjits. . . . This may have been due to the fact
that the memory-pictures of these first three experiments now con-
stituted a difficulty. So much attention had to be given to inhibit-
ing these memory-pictures, and in deciding whether or not they were
to be inhibited. Or it may be due to some other cause, such as
fatigue or boredom."
I have said enough, I think, to show that these experiments will
repay study, and I may add that Mr Sinclair is to be congratulated
on making a book on so dry a subject, not only useful to students,
but readable for the ordinary reader. For students I think the
addition of a chronological list in tabular form of all the telepathic
experiments in which drawings were used, with their divisions into
batches, might be useful ; but we are given so large a selection of
them in full, and so much information about them, that it seems
migrateful to ask for more.
I will end with heartily endorsing the final sentence of Professor
McDougall's interesting introduction. " Mr Sinclair's book," he
says, " will amply justify itself if it shall lead a few of his readers to
undertake carefully and critically experiments similar to those
which he has so vividly described." And that this effect should be
produced among the members of om Society is all the more to be
desired, because they have sent in so little work of this sort for so
many years. E. M. S.
I. THE VISIT OF M. PASCAL FORTHUNY TO THE SOCIETY
IN 1929.
By V. J. WOOLLEY.
The mediumsliip of M. Pascal Forthuny has been a subject of
interest to an increasing number of students of clairvoyance for some
years. Since, however, most of the accomits of his powers have
appeared in French it may be of interest if I give a short summary
of his development by way of preface to the description of our
London experiments.
On a few isolated occasions prior to 1920 M. Forthuny had
spontaneous supernormal experiences. One in particular has been
described by him : a vision of a coffin which caused him to return to
Paris from a long distance in time to see his mother before her
unexpected death.
In June 1919, however, he was overwhelmed by grief at the tragic
death of his son as the result of a flying accident, and about a year
later he began suddenly to produce automatic writing. These
writings purported to be in part messages from his son and in part
communications from a spirit guide. None of them, however,
showed any knowledge of verifiable facts which were not known to
M. Forthuny himself, and on Christmas Day, 1920, the writing
abruptly ceased and has never since recurred. He claims, however,
that this gift of automatic writing was replaced by a gift of clair-
voyance, so that he is now able from time to time to discover facts
relating to persons in whose company he is, these facts consisting of
details regarding their past history, present surroundings and even
their future.
This clairvoyance is said to be to some extent subject to his
conscious control so that he can direct it towards assigned individuals,
but it is most commonly demonstrated in large gatherings. Under
these conditions M. Forthuny says that he is aware of the direction
of the individual with whom his impressions have to do, but does not
know whether he is one of those near him or further away. A
number of descriptions of his successful demonstrations have
appeared in the Revue Metapsychique and other French journals.
Mr Besterman has also described ^ a private sitting at M. Forthuny's
^ Proceedings, xxxviii. 474.
H
348 Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society [part
house, and Mrs Brackeulniry and I have had similar private sittings,
and have also attended one of the pnblic demonstrations which were
held in a hall in Paris. In each case there seemed no doubt that M.
Forthuny had a knowledge of circimistances which he could not have
acquired normally, and the Council invited him to visit the Society
during the course of 1929 in the hope that he would be equally
successful in London.
During his visit we were able to arrange three meetings for those
Members and Associates who wished to be present, thus reproducing
as far as we were able the conditions of the public demonstrations
which M. Forthuny is accustomed to give in Paris. On the other
days of his visit he kindly agreed to give private sittings to those
whom we introduced to him for the purpose. As sitters we selected
for the most part those who had provided interesting material from
visits to other mediums, our aim being to compare these previous
results, of which we possessed the records, with whatever was
produced during the present series.
For purposes of classification it is perhaps convenient to divide
the records rather arbitrarily into three groups : A. The public
gatherings ; B. The private sittings ; C. Psychometric experiments.
A. The Public Gatherings.
Our aim in these meetings was to follow as closely as possible the
procedure to which M. Forthuny was accustomed in Paris. This
consists in his facing the audience, with the light behind him, and
relating to the various persons concerned the impressions which he
may receive about them and their affairs. All that was said was
taken down by a notetaker engaged for the purpose, but we found
an unexpected difficulty in securing the services of a French short-
hand writer, and the detail and accuracy of the records suffered in
consequence. A further difficulty lay in the fact that it is not always
quite certain who is the person about whom the impressions are
received. M. Forthuny is only able to locate his direction, and this
sometimes rather vaguely, so that he is rather dependent on his
impressions being claimed by the person whom they really concern.
Experience shows that difl'erent people vary very greatly in the
readiness with which they will claim an impression as relating to
themselves, and there is reason to believe that some evidential
matter was not recognised owing to the unwillingness of those
concerned to claim it.^
It is not easy imder these conditions to form an estimate of the
^ Thus, at one of the public meetings, M. Forthuny mentioned two Christian
names to a member of the audience who failed to recognise them, but I learnt
afterwards that these names were the names of the father and uncle of two ladies
sitting immediately in front of the person addressed, and that the father had
pur^Dorted to communicate at various sittings with other mediums.
117] Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society 349
degree of success attained in the demonstration as a whole. The
method suggested by Saltmarsh and Soal ^ for estimating the merit
of mediumistic communications does not seem wholly applicable to a
case like this in which purported communications from the dead
are hardly concerned.
On account of these difficulties it seems impossible to do more
than to give a few quotations from the records of the sittings,
together with the comments thereon of the people to whom the
commimications were made, and I have deliberately chosen those
communications which were admitted to be in part correct. I must
leave it to the reader to decide how far these correct statements
may be due to chance and how far such an explanation is excluded
by the detail involved.
The first meeting took place on 29 May 1929, and communications
were addressed to twelve different members of the audience. Some
of these were only a few sentences and some were of a kind difficult
to confirm or deny with precision, but I propose to quote in full
the commimications made to three people together with their
comments, which were added later to the written record.
1. F. Curieusement, Monsieur,
i'ai I'impression que vous avez
eu, il n'y a pas tres longtemps,
des relations d'affaires avec le
Monde Asiatique.
(Oui)
Quelqu'mi que vous connais-
siez bien en Asie est mort ici blesse
ou d'une maladie organique ?
[" Ici " in this question refers
to the upper part of the abdomen
and not to a locality.]
(I do not know exactly that he
was woimded here, but it was not
a natural death)
Ville de Hong Kong.
(I do not know the town)
Je vois ecrit ici £12,000. C'est
un chifire qui m'apparait comnie
ayant rapport avec vos relations
d'affaires avec I'Asie.
Correct psychically in general.
The Far East in particular for
three years.
My special friend " on the
other side " is a Chinaman who
was mortally wounded on the
Western Front in the War. He
was blown to pieces.
A gentleman sitting imme-
diately behind the one addressed
writes later that he had spent
many years in India, and that
towards the end of this time he
had remitted home sums amount-
ing to about the £12,000 men-
tioned.
1 Proceedings, xxxix. 266.
u2
350 Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society [part
2 . F.Le nom de Cecily, Cecilia,
revient. C'est ime sorte de
petite anarchiste de bonne qua-
lite. Ce n'est pas mie nature
domestique ni obeissante. Bile
declare qu'elle n'aime ni la con-
versation ni la compagnie des
femmes et ne les trouve pas
interessantes.
(Ceci est exact)
3. F. 1\ y & plus d'un an vous
vous etes trouve devant un jeune
liomme et vous avez montre
votre fermete de caractere et
vous Tavez abaisse dans son
orgueil ; est-ce exact ?
(Yes, it is true)
C'est un nom Juif. J'ai deux
perceptions. Vous etes tres con-
tent de la situation materielle
que vous avez, mais vous vous
attendez a une amelioration au
point de vue materiel dans cette
situation.
(Yes)
Maintenant dans cette situa-
tion il a ete necessaire pour que
vous reussissiez que Ton deplace
un gargon qui vous genait dont
le nom est Ricliard ?
(No)
_
Je vols aussi que vous etiez
fait pour tenir dans la vie une
autre situation plus noble et que
vous considerez que vous avez
manque votre vie.
(J'ai fait dans la vie ce que je
devais faire)
Je vous vols etudiant des lan-
ques etrangeres, portant des
papiers d'un caractere officiel,
diplomatique.
(Oui, j 'avals ete eduque pour
les Affaires Etrangeres et eleve
pour cela)
A near relative of the gentle-
man addressed states that her
relative had in fact been intended
from childhood for the Diplo-
matic service and had been
accepted as a candidate for it.
Only after taking his degree at
Oxford did he give up the idea
and take up his present pro-
fession.
117] Visit of M. Pascal Forthmiy to the Society 351
It will be seen that in each of the three communications I have
quoted there is a considerable proportion of truth. That can only
be attributed to one or more of three possible sources : {a) Chance
coincidence ;
(b) Conscious or unconscious knowledge obtained by
normal means ;
(c) Some supernormal faculty. I think we may
fairly argue that the proportion of accuracy in these three cases is
too high to be due to chance coincidence, and I am reasonably sure
that M. Forthuny neither had nor ever had had any normal know-
ledge of the facts he detailed. It follows that we are driven to assume
that his knowledge comes from some supernormal faculty, and it
seems reasonable to suppose that this faculty consists mainly in a
supernormal knowledge of what is in the minds of people present
with him, whether we call such knowledge telepathic or clairvoyant.
The other two public meetings took place on 4 and 12 June.
The results on the whole were inferior to those which I have already
quoted, and I do not think that anything would be added to the
evidence by giving the notes here.
B. The Private Sittings.
Nine of these were held, the sitters being invited mainly from
those whose records of sittings with spiritualistic mediums were in our
possession previously. In two cases the sitters took their own
notes, and in the others either we or the sitter provided a notetaker.
The French shorthand writer whom we engaged was unfortunately
quite inexperienced in taking notes of sittings, and the records
which were made by the sitters' friends were in fact more useful
for our purpose.
As regards evidence of a supernormal faculty these sittings are
in no way different from the public meetings. There is a certain
amount of accurate material mingled with a good deal which is
erroneous. Even in those sittings which showed apparently super-
normal knowledge there was curiously little in common with the
recorded results of sittings with other mediums. This is well
instanced by the record of the sitting with the two Misses X, one
of whom was the Miss X who had successful sittings with Mrs Warren
Elliott in 1928.^ Besides having sittings with Mrs Warren Elliott
this lady had had sittings with several other mediums, and on each
occasion had been given veridical details regarding the life and
character of her late father, though, as far as could be determined,
she had always gone as an anonymous sitter, and the mediums
concerned had no normal knowledge of her family affairs. In fact,
in all these sittings, the most prominent feature of the record is the
personality of her father and his " remorse for his unkindness and
a desire for forgiveness ".^
^ Proceedi7igs, xxxix. 80. ^ Proceedings, xxxix. 81.
352 Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society [part
Now in this Forthuny sitting the only allusions that might apply
to her father are of the vaguest sort and might equally apply to a
number of other people. On the other hand there are a number of
statements which I propose to quote, with annotations, which show
in my opinion a degree of accuracy which is collectively too great
to attribute to chance. It is particularly noteworthy that the first
remark, which opened the sitting, contained a statement of a fact
which was unknown to either of the two sitters and was apparently
a prediction. I have noticed in several cases that M. Forthuny's
opening remark is often the most striking " hit " of the sitting.
The sitting took place on June 5, and the notes were taken down
in English by the other Miss X, no other notetaker being present.
I must just tell you one small
thing that comes to me in con-
nection with you.
There is a lady whose occupa-
tion is sewing or dressmaking,
connected with clothes and
dresses, who has either made out
to you an inexact account or
taken or kept back some stuff
from you. It is in connection
with some business house. Yes,
a lady occupied with sewing.
I think it is over now but you
have been deceived or cheated.
It is not important but I am
giving it to you. You have been
cheated in some question of
dressmaking.
P, P, Paterson, Peterson ; is
there a street like that ? Any
street in London like Peterson ?
[Later in the sitting :]
Is November or December a
special month for either of you ?
A person, very much attached
to you, is coming from afar into
your house, and she will tell you
worries about her health. I see
her coming to you, and in her
secret thoughts she is more
worried than she lets j)eople
think.
We were unaware at the time
of the truth of this statement. I
was then having a ready-made
dress from Peter Robinson's
altered at that shop. Three days
after this sitting the dress came
home and I found that a pro-
mised half yard of the material,
left over from the alteration, had
not been returned with the dress.
I do not think I was wittingly
cheated as the assistant told me
afterwards it had been omitted
through the packer's oversight.
Is Peterson an attempt at
Peter Robinson ?
Our sister is expected from
the Argentine with her family in
December. She has lately been
worried about her health for the
first time in her life. She would
be anxious, but it would be her
nature to keep the worry to
herself.
117] Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society 353
Ma—Ma—Margery ? Mal-
LINS ?
She is more anxious tlian she
tells you, but perhaps you have
guessed how anxious she is. She
has had an example from a friend
who had had this same illness or
ill-health. She had a bad acci-
dent because of her illness : this
has frightened this person. She
has either brought flowers to you
or brought them from the coun-
try.
She has been forbidden many
kinds of food.
Has she not had in her owm
family some one who has had the
same trouble and this worries
her ? She is much more worried
about this trouble than she
allows people to think.
No.
She had several sharp attacks
of gall-stones. Strange to say,
my mother, for the first time in
her life had a very bad attack of
this same trouble. My mother
was so ill that a serious operation
was threatened, but mercifully
did not have to be performed.
It is quite possible my sister may
fear the need of an operation in
her own case if her trouble occurs
again.
This is quite true as she is on
the strictest diet.
See above.
The rest of the sitting consists of a fairly accurate character
delineation of the sitters and a number of statements, some of which
convey nothing while others are partly right and partly wrong.
In Mr Saltmarsh's report on the sittings with Mrs Warren Elliott
a good deal of veridical matter is noted in connection with what is
there called the A case.^
On June 8 A's father, mother, brother and sister-in-law had a
private sitting with M. Forthimy in order that we might be able to
compare his results with the previous ones. No notetaker was
present and the notes were taken by A's mother, who has added
her annotations. On the whole the results are less good than in the
Misses X case that I have described, but, just as in that case, there
is hardly any reference to A who came to the front so prominently
in the sittings with other mediums. Apart from a reference to a
young man whose photograph requires framing, whereas there was
at the time a photograph of A in a frame which required glazing,
there is very little to suggest him in the whole sitting. There were,
however, a certain number of accurate statements made regarding
past events and family connections which could hardly have been
known normally to M. Forthimy. I quote below some examples
from which it may be seen that they are of the same type and degree
1 Proceedings, xxxix. 66.
h3
354 Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society [part
of accuracy as those I have quoted in connection with the other
sitters.
1. There is a little dog who is dead. It had a little coloured
cushion. A dog was hurt : there were two difierent dogs : Pitty
. . . Petty ... A man of the church is standing near. You took
it somewhere where there was " une sorte de barriere ".
Now on July 15, 1926, A's mother had a sitting with Mrs Warren
Elliott. The following is extracted from the notes :
Him was fond of dog with long ears, does you know ?
(Yes)
ISTot very tall, sort of long and not very tall, but long with long
ears . . . There was an accident to that dog, does you know ?
(Yes)
You got white doggie or had white doggie when him here. Shows
Topsy white doggie. Got a little brown on him somewhere. Does
you know it ?
(Yes)
From the sitter's annotations it appears that A's family had
several different dogs in his lifetime. One was a dachshund called
Pattikin, in connection with which M. Forthuny's attempt at the
name " Pitty or Petty " seems a fairly close approximation, while
two other dogs were accidentally killed.
2. There is a lady who limps, she walked with two sticks and is
getting out again for the first time. There has been some recon-
struction of her house lately. She is elderly, has a very good head
and gives help to a great many people.
The sitter (A's mother as before) comments :
I have a friend who broke her hip over a year ago. She is not
" out again for the first time " but she is just beginning to walk
again without depending on a stick. She used two crutches for a
long time. Her house has been reconstructed lately, and a week
or two before the sitting she had been showing me over it. She is
an unusually gifted and clear-headed woman with a passion for
helping people less fortunate than herself. Her age is 65.
3. He shows a room with one window and a something built out.
Mauve and red flowers that recall something. Wa—White—
Waterley.
Comment : Our drawing-room has one window opening on to a
small balcony. A few days before the sitting there were mauve
117] Visit of M. Pascal Fortliuny to the Society 355
irises on the mantelpiece and on the piano a bowl of mauve and rose-
coloured sweet peas. When I put them there I remembered having
had the same flowers in the room the last afternoon A had been
at home in 1918. Waterley meant nothing to me at the time, but
afterwards I remembered that a Mrs Whatley had been here to tea
that same afternoon. This is written in my diary.
The remaining private sittings were of varying degrees of accuracy.
They all contained some " hits " as well as a good deal that was
quite inaccurate or unverifiable, and I do not consider that anything
is to be gained by quoting from them. The extracts already given
will serve as samples of the whole.
C. Psychometric Experiments.
There remain only the experiments in what is generally called
Psychometry and Object-reading. These were four in number.
The first was made at the second public meeting on 4 June, when
M. Forthuny was handed by the Rev. J. W. Hayes a box containing
a small Egyptian figure. Unfortunately he took out of the box the
small parcel containing the figure before saying much about it, and
thus, although he did describe it as Egyptian and very old, it is
impossible to be certain that this is more than could be learnt by
normal means. He added rightly that the object had been given
to Mr Hayes by a lady, but there was nothing accurate in what
he said about her.
The second experiment was made in private on 11 June. An
article in a closed packet was handed to him by Mrs Brackenbury,
who had no knowledge of the contents of the packet. No one else
was present. It is not worth while to quote what he said about it
because hardly any of it has any relevance to the object. It is
however of considerable interest to note that he concluded with
the statement, " I get the name Kathleen ". No other names were
given before this, and Kathleen is the name of the owner of the
article, a fact which was known to Mrs Brackenbury.
The third and fourth experiments were carried out at the third
public meeting on 12 June.
The first object consisted of an irregularly shaped piece of canvas
measuring roughly about 10 x 5 cms. It was in fact a piece of the
envelope of the Zeppelin airship which was shot down at Cuffley
on 3 September 1916. It was sealed in an envelope in one side of
which had been cut an oblong opening of about 3.5 x 2 cms. This
allowed one side of the canvas to be seen and touched but not the
other. The side which was thus visible showed a rough canvas
surface. The other side was covered with some waterproofing
composition. When I examined it myself before the meeting I
thought it was a piece of a bicycle tyre. .
356 Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society [part
On handling this object M. Forthuny said :
" Je marche dans une route eblouissante de soleil : je suis conduit
:
je domine les choses au dessus du monde. J'entende les noms
'
Michael ' . . .
'
Hardy '
. . . un nom qui finit par '
man '. Im-
pression d'un violent tonnerre, tournade epouvantable. Je ne peux
pas arriver a definir, je vais aller directement. Je vois un homme
combattant dans une bataille, tourmente. Le 17 Avril. Initiales
A—A."
The second object was a small irregularly shaped piece of alumin-
ium about 2.5 cms. long, contained in a sealed matchbox. In the
top of the matchbox was a roughly circular hole about 1 cm. in
diameter through which the object could be just touched and rather
indistinctly seen. This piece of aluminium had formed part of
another Zeppelin which was shot down at a later date.
M. Forthuny's impressions were as follows :
" Je vois quelqu'rm qui etoufie, qui arrache son col, qui defait
des boucles, qui se jette en avant et qui tombe. Theodore. C'est
une impression tout-a-fait semblable a celle du premier paquet."
These experiments seem to me to be the most successful ones of
M. Forthuny's visit, and the reports are worth considering in some
detail.
Both objects were provided by Mrs Brackenbury, who was present
at the meeting and who of course knew their histories. In the case
of the first one, the phrase " je suis conduit, je domine les choses au
dessus du monde " is very applicable to a member of the Zeppelin's
crew. The names " Michael " and " Hardy " are the names of two
people who were closely connected with Mrs Brackenbury's life
and with one another.
The " impression d'lm violent tonnerre, tournade epouvantable
"
is easily applicable to aerial fighting, as is the " homme combattant
dans une bataille ".
The accuracy of what is said about the second object is even more
striking, especially as there is nothing whatever to cause this
fragment of aluminium to be associated with any fatality. As I
mentioned above it formed part of a Zeppelin which was shot down
near London. Mrs Brackenbury was present in the course of her
duties as an ambulance driver, and in walking over the field she
discovered the body of one of the crew at some distance from the
wreckage. His back was broken, but his body was not burnt or
otherwise injured, and it seems clear that he threw himself out
before the airship came down.
Finally, I should like to call attention to M. Forthuny's concluding
remark that he received just the same impression from the second
object as from the first. It seems to me quite impossible to attribute
this to any normal observation. He had no knowledge even that
117] Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society 357
they were contributed by the same person, and there was nothing
whatever to suggest a common origin for the two.
CoNCLUSioisr.
I have tried to put forward those cases in which there seem to
me to be the best grounds for supposing the existence in M. Forthmiy
of some supernormal faculty. That the evidence is not stronger
and the cases more numerous is due in part to two causes. I have
already mentioned one, our difficulty in finding a competent French
shorthand writer. The other cause lies, I think, in the difficulty
which M. Forthuny felt in entering into the psychology of another
nation. Nearly all the sitters, both in public and private, were quite
unknown ground to him, and this brought about a very real though
largely unconscious inhibition of his powers. Besides this he also
felt a certain conscious restraint in a fear lest he might by accident
transgress some convention unknown to him.
The nature of that supernormal faculty remains obscure. In these
London experiments very little was said by him which had not at
some time been known to someone present, and we must assume
that his information was derived in some way from that person's
mind. What appears to me to be of interest is the fact that his
communications are very little concerned with supposed messages
from the dead, and in that way afford a marked contrast to the
commimications we are accustomed to receive from English mediums
although the verifiable details are of much the same type in both.
Finally, I must express to M. Forthuny the very warm thanks of
the Society and of myself for the willingness with which he lent
himself to our experiments and acceded to all our wishes.
11. THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP, AND THE LONDON
SITTINGS OF DECEMBER 1929.
I. A Criticism of the Method of Control.
By V. J. WooLLEY AND E. Brackenbury.
In December 1929 Dr L. R. G. Crandon of Boston gave three
demonstrations in the Society's seance-room of some of the pheno-
mena which he has described as occurring through the mediumship
of Mrs Crandon [Margery). The procedure was understood to be
the same as that employed in the sittings which usually take place
at Boston, and an examination of the method of limb control and
the phenomena occurring seems to be worth while in affording data
for an estimate of the mediumship as a whole.
The method consists in the attachment of the wrists and ankles
of the medium to the arms and front legs of her chair by a number
of turns of adhesive tape. The position of the tape is marked on the
skin by lines drawn over tape and skin in pencil. We do not think
it necessary to describe the method in any greater detail, since we
are in full agreement with Dr Crandon that his method does secure
the wrists and ankles firmly to the chair so that no movement is
permitted to the lower ends of the forearms beyond what is allowed
through the skin moving for a short distance over the underlying
muscles and bones.
In addition to this attachment of the wrists and ankles a cord is
tied at its centre to the back of the chair and the two ends are
brought over the shoulders and then under the arms, passed through
the back of the chair and tied behind. This arrangement limits the
position of the shoulders so that they cannot move forward more
than a short distance, and so limits to some extent the movements of
the head.
The table and chair used in the sittings were procured in London,
the table being specially made to the dimensions asked for by Dr
Crandon, while the legs of the chair were cut short in such a way that
the knees of the medium were just able to pass under the top of the
table, part of the table frame being specially cut away to allow of
this. It follows that a very slight raising of the knees is enough to
bring them in contact with the table and so to lift it off the floor,
358
PART 117] The Margery MecUumsMp and London Sittings 359
and it is impossible, when such a low chair is used, to adjust the tapes
round the ankles in such a way as to prevent this. We have
mentioned above that the tapes round the wrists prevent movement
of the lower ends of the forearms. It is however clear that the hands^
which are not secured at all, have a very considerable latitude of
movement, depending on the degree of flexibility of the wrist joints.
We have made experiments under this method of control, and
have satisfied ourselves that it is by no means difficult to move the
table about and to handle and lift up any objects placed upon it.
In addition to being ineffective the method has the further
disadvantage of being exceedingly uncomfortable for the medium.
It makes difficult or impossible the small changes of posture which
are essential for comfort, and the tightness of the tapes causes the
skin between the turns to become swollen and painful. Also, the
adhesive used is not water-soluble, and the tapes have to be dragged
off the skin by force at the conclusion of the sitting, a process which
is painful at the time and which tends to damage the skin if repeated
at too short intervals.
We have mentioned already that our own experiments have
satisfied us that it is possible for a person fastened in this way with
adhesive tapes to the chair used in the Crandon sittings to handle
and lift up objects placed on the table, and that on that account
we consider the method of control to be ineffective, but it is of
importance, in judging the value of the sittings in question, to know
if there is any definite evidence that the objects were in fact so
handled. It is the chief purpose of this paper to present what we
believe to be such evidence.
In order to make intelligible what follows it may be worth while
to describe the usual procedure at the Crandon sittings when the
personality known as Walter expresses his intention of making a
finger impression.
Two dishes are placed on the table in front of the medium, who
is secured to her chair in the way we have described. The dish to
her right is filled with water which is as hot as can just be endured
for a short time by the fingers. The dish to her left contains cold
water. These dishes are generally filled in red light. Lying on the
bottom of the hot water dish with its ends projecting over the edges
is a folded cloth or handkerchief. When directed by Walter, a
sitter puts into the hot water and on the cloth a marked cake of
Kerr dental wax. The red light is then extinguished. When this
wax is sufficiently softened by the hot water it is pulled out by means
of the cloth and an impression is made on it. As soon as the impres-
sion is made the wax is put into the cold water to harden. It is
alleged that all these manipulations of the wax after it is put into
the hot water are carried out by a supernormal structure made by
360 The Margery Mediumship and London Sittings [part
Walter for the purpose of manipulating material objects, and known
as his " terminal ". The chief argument used to support this
contention is the allegation that the medium is so efiectually
secured in her chair that she cannot herself handle the objects on
the table.
During the course of the sitting of 7 December 1929 a piece of
dental wax (which we will call A) was, by Walter's direction, broken
in two,^ and for clearness we may call these pieces Al and A2.
One of these two pieces, Al, was placed in hot water to receive the
impression of a digit from an alleged " visiting lady," but owing
to the water not being hot enough it showed finally only a small
surface depression with no skin-markings. This piece Al, which
remained in our possession, is only of importance as helping to ascer-
tain the weight of A2. The second half, A2, was then placed in hot
water, but this time the water was too hot ; the wax became
adherent to the handkerchief and finally rolled up in it and no
impression was obtained. It is with the fate of this second half,
A2, that we are mainly concerned. By Walter's direction it was
left as it was on the table, still rolled up in the handkerchief, until
the next sitting (on 8 December 1929) and at some time in the course
of that sitting it was squeezed up in one of the pieces of wax which
were softened during that sitting to receive impressions. This is
definitely proved by the weights of the cakes of wax used and of
the lump remaining at the end of the sitting of 8 December. To
decide this we weighed ten new cakes of Kerr wax, with the following
results :
^ .
Weight of lightest cake, 24.77 grams .
,
,
Weight of heaviest cake, 29.70 grams ,
r
Average weight of one cake, 27.00 grams. ;
Now the weight of the first half piece of 7 December, which we call
Al, is 16.58 grams, so that the weight of the other half piece A2 was
almost certauily between 8 and 13 grams and probably about 11
grams. The weight of the shapeless himp, which we believe to
consist of one whole cake and this half, is actually 38.96 grams, a
figure which fully confirms our belief. We think then that it may
be taken as certain, and we believe that Dr Crandon will agree with
us in this, that this lump remaining at the end of the sitting of
8 December 1929 was made by the joining together of the old half
piece, A2, from the night before with one of the whole new pieces
first softened during this sitting.
At the sitting of 8 December two new pieces of wax, one marked
with one notch, and hereafter called B, and one with two notches,
hereafter called C, were used. At the beginning of the sitting the
half-piece A2 was, as already stated, on the table.
'^Psychic Eesearch (New York 1930), xxiv. 260. '
: >
117] The Margery Mediumship and London Sittings 361
If we now turn to Dr Crandon's dictated notes of the sitting of
8 December we are met by the surprising fact that they contain
no mention of the softening of the first piece of wax B, which is only
referred to indirectly in Walter's statement that " the first piece was
spoiled oiving to the ivater being too cold ".^ To rectify this omission,
and to make the account of the sitting intelligible, we give below
our own notes of what occurred.
After " Walter says '
if we get a 'print, mind you, it may be a poor
one'",^ our notes continue: "Walter called for red light and
directed Lord Charles Hope to put some hot water in the basin and
Dr WooUey to put a marked piece of wax therein. Dr WooUey put
in the hot water a new cake of Kerr, marked with one notch [that
is, B], and the light was then extinguished. After a minute or two
Walter announced that it was no good ; the water was too cold.
" Lord Charles Hope asked where the spoilt piece of wax was.
Walter said that we could not have it now, or words to that effect.
" Then he asked for another piece [that is, C] to be produced and
directed Lord Charles Hope to pour more hot water into the dish
without the red light being turned on." ^
From this point Dr Crandon's notes continue as follows :
" Walter directs that later ivhen he so orders them, Dr Brown is to
stand and put his right hand on the psychic's left hand and similarly
when ordered, Dr WooUey is to stand and put his marked wax in afresh
dish of hot water and keep his hand on the psychic's hand, thus keeping
practical * control of both hands. . . .
" Under orders from Walter, Mrs Brackenbury takes Dr Crandon
out of the room. As Mrs Brackenbury had to take Dr Crandon out of
the room, Lord Charles Hojk attended to the gramophone, when it got
to the end of the record. He {Lord Charles) says, '
I moved across,
restarted the gramophone and sat next to the notetaker, jmtting both my
hands on her arm.'
" Dr WooUey dictates '
At Walter's direction, Dr Crandon and Mrs
Brackenbury left the seance-room and Dr WooUey and Dr Brown ivere
instructed to stand one on each side of the medium, Dr ]Voolley holding
the medium's right hand with his left, and Dr Broivn holding the
medium's left hand with his right, and the tivo joining their unoccupied
hands as far as possible awayfrom the medium.'
" Before doing this Dr WooUey had put a piece of wax into the dish.^
^ Dr Crandon's notes are printed in italics throughout the present paper.
^Psychic Research, xxiv. 261.
^ This was the only occasion during the series on which the red light was not
allowed while hot water was being poured into the dish.
* In the notes as pruited in Psychic Research this word has been altered to
" tactual ".
^ This piece of wax was marked with two notches.
362 The Margery MediunisMp and London Sittings [part
" After the expiration of some time Dr Brown was instructed to lift
up the iuax impression from the table by the side of the cold ivater dish .
He lifted first a lump of wax in a cloth which Walter said was the wrong
im,pression. Dr Brown later found what ivas said to be the right im-
pression on the table and handed, it to Dr Woolley and both resumed their
seats." 1
We then note that Mrs Brackenbury and Dr Crandon returned
to the seance-room.
Dr Crandon's notes continue, " Walter tells us that the first piece
was spoilt owing to the water being too cold, and that the piece which was
handed out as the p)roper result was the second jjiece of wax." ^
Our notes continue : "A few minutes after Mrs Brackenbury and
Dr Crandon returned Walter said, 'Here you are, Woolley', and
we heard a hard object fall on the floor." This object was picked
up afterwards by one of us (E.B.) and foimd to be the spoilt wax
already described as consisting of one and a half cakes of Kerr
squeezed together into a shapeless lump. Now this squeezing
together took place during the course of the sitting, and was com-
j^leted before the medium was released from her bonds. We thought
therefore that this lump was deserving of a very careful examination
for finger impressions, since any found ought to have been produced
by what is known as " Walter's terminal ". We were only able to
discover one impression on its surface, and this bore no resemblance
to the well-known Walter impression. On comparing it however
with the impressions of the medium's fingers which she kindly
allowed one of us (V. J. W.) to take while she was in London, we
found that it was quite certainly the impression of her right index
finger. Figs. 1 and 2 are enlarged photographs of this impression
on the squeezed lump and of the impression of the finger in question.
This seemed such an important fact that we communicated it to
Dr Crandon in a letter of 30 January, and on 17 February he replied
as follows :
" The spoilt and squeezed piece of wax was handled by the
medium in the presence of everybody after the sitting because, with
Scotch thrift, she wanted to retrieve the handkerchief from it.
This handkerchief you remember was the one put in hot water by
you at Walter's request. The water was too hot and wax and
handkerchief got completely stuck together."
It is clear that the sitting to which Dr Crandon refers in this letter
1 This " right impression " is an imprint of a thumb which Walter attri-
buted to an elderly lady and is referred to by Dr Crandon as the Old Lady
impression. The identity of this piece of wax, i.e. whether it was the first
piece, B, or the second piece, C, forms the subject of Part 2 of this paper.
^ Dr Crandon here adds the word " divided " which does not seem to us to
make sense, because neither of the two pieces softened on that evening was
divided. Each was a whole new cake.
117] The Margery Mediumship and London Sittings 363
took place on 7 December 1929, (a) because the squeezed lump
found after the sitting of the 8th had no handkerchief attached :
it was thrown on the floor as already described, (b) because on
8 December Walter complained that the water was too cold and not
too hot.i
Some further correspondence ensued, and on 28 March Dr Crandon
wrote " December 7 Walter instructed us to leave everything on
the table as it was. Just before the sitting of December 8, Margery,
impulsively and casually, picked up one of the pieces of December 7
wax which had been left on the table. You, Mrs Brackenbury and
myself all cried out to her not to touch it. If her finger mark is on
it that is the way it happened."
This second suggestion of Dr Crandon's seems to us to be even
less admissible than that put forward in his earlier letter. The
impression on the wax is in three dimensions, and it could only have
been produced while the wax was hot and soft. It could not possibly
have been done on the 8th before the sitting began since there was
not at that time in the room any hot water or other means of
softening the wax.
This was pointed out to Dr Crandon in the course of further
correspondence and he has now published the first suggestion,^ as
the true explanation of the finger impression, and gives four reasons
why its presence on this piece of wax is of no importance.
These are : (1) It was not a piece of wax which was a part of any
experiment. We submit that this piece A2 was a part of an experi-
ment on the 7th although no impression was obtained on it. It also
became part of an experiment on the 8th because it was on the table
when the sitting of 8 December began, left over from the previous day
at Walter's request, and remained there throughout the sitting of 8
December. Dr Crandon's contention seems to imply that only those
objects which show the desired result are to be taken into account,
while those that indicate a normal causation of phenomena are to
be neglected because their evidence is accidental.
(2) It was warm at the end of the sitting and would receive an
impression from anyone who touched it.
We have carried out some experiments on the time of cooling of
the wax used, and find that a whole cake of Kerr wax, heated in
water to the highest temperature which allows it to be manipulated
at all, then removed and made into a ball (in order to cool as slowly
as possible), is too cold to receive a recognisable imprint after 15
minutes in a warm room.
On 7 December only half a cake (or less) was used : it was not
squeezed into a ball ; and we may safely assume that the cooling
time was not more than this.
^ Psychic Research, xxiv. 262. ^ Psychic Research, xxiv. 260w.
364 The Margery Mediumship and London Sittings [part
Now the removal of the wax from the water is recorded in Dr
Crandon's notes ^ in the words " Something is heard coming out of
the water, and some wax as if it was hitting the table ". Unfor-
tunately no times are recorded, but after this note there takes place
a good deal of talk from Walter, the gradual rousing of the medium,
the examination of the adhesive strapping and rope, the examination
of the medium by Lady Barrett and the changing back of the
medium into her usual clothing. We are quite unable to believe that
all this could have been compressed into 15 minutes, which is the
longest possible time for the wax to have remained soft.
(3) The conditions of the sitting of 8 December (where WooUey
and Brown held the lashed hands throughout the experiment)
exclude the normal production of the prints.
This seems irrelevant to Dr Crandon's contention, since the hands
were in fact held only for a part of the experiment, namely from the
time that the second piece of wax was put in the hot water until the
old half piece, that is, "a lump of wax in a cloth " as mentioned
in Dr Crandon's notes, was picked up by Dr Brown. It is not clear
what prints are referred to since only one print (the Old Lady) was
produced at this sitting.
(4) Both of the " Walter " prints ^ and also the " Old Lady "
print show only the unique print desired.
This also seems irrelevant to the point vmder discussion, which is
the presence of the medium's finger impression on a quite different
piece, namely, the " squeezed lump." It would clearly be a great
advantage if we could establish with certainty from the wax itself
whether the impression is on the half piece A2 or the whole piece
(B or C : for argument see Part II) which were welded into one on
8 December. The appearances suggest that it is on the whole piece
which we believe to have been wrapped round the half piece so as to
enclose it more or less completely. It is not possible to be certain
on the point without softening the wax and we are unwilling to do
this at the present time. But even without this we consider that we
have sufficient evidence, from the wax and Dr Crandon's notes, to
make it reasonably certain that by some means or other an impression
of the medium's right index finger was made on the wax at a time
when she was secured to her chair with the adhesive tapes which
Dr Crandon habitually uses, and we consider therefore that that
method of control is ineffective in preventing the medium from
handling objects on the table, and thus useless for its piirpose.
^ Psychic Research, xxiv. 262. •
^ Both these Walter prints were made on 7 December. ;
'
117] The Margery MediumsMp and London Sittings 365
II. The Production of the so-called " Old Lady "
Thumb Impression on 8 December.
By V. J. WOOLLEY.
My original intention was to publish no further comments on these
sittings, which I regarded as exclusively Dr Crandon's investigation
at which I was merely an onlooker. In his report however he has
described one particular experiment in which I was allowed to take
a leading part, and it seems possible that some of his readers may
be led to believe that I endorse the account there given.
The experiment in question consisted in the making by Walter
of a thumb impression which was said to be that of a well-known
lady who had died recently, but whose name was not given. At
the sitting Walter announced that the impression would be made
while the medium's hands were held by Dr Brown and myself.
The account dictated by Dr Crandon at the time is so inadequate
that it even fails to mention, except quite indirectly, in reporting
Walter, the fact that two pieces of wax, which in Part I of this paper
were distinguished as B and C, were used during the evening.
In Part I of this paper has been given our own account of the
events of the sitting, and I will later consider how this can be checked
by reference to admitted facts. Before the sitting began I was asked
by Dr Crandon to provide myself with several pieces of Kerr wax,
each difierently marked. I marked three pieces by making deep
notches in the side. The three pieces were marked with one, two
and three notches respectively, and the notches could easily be felt
and coimted in the dark. I miderstood from Dr Crandon that I was
to keep these markings secret and not show them to any other sitter.
The first important event was the placing by me in the hot water
of the first piece of wax. I am quite confident that this was the
piece marked with one notch and distinguished as B. The red light
was then turned out, and after an interval Walter said that the water
was too cold and this piece was spoiled. Lord Charles Hope was
then directed to put hot water into the dish and Dr Crandon and
Mrs Brackenbury left the seance-TOom. I took the medium's right
hand, as described in the published notes, having first put into the
hot water the second piece of wax marked with two notches, and
distinguished as C.
After an interval Walter said that the impression was made and
directed Dr Brown to take the wax o& the table. Dr Brown first
picked up the old half A2 from the previous sitting which had been
on the table throughout, and then the piece which Walter said was
the one on which the Old Lady had impressed her thumb.
Later in the sitting a hard object fell on the floor, and when this was
366 The Margery MecUumship and London Sittings [part
examined afterwards it was found to consist of one and a half cakes
of Kerr wax squeezed together. It obviously consisted of one of tlie
two cakes softened during this sitting, together with the old half
cake from the night before. At the close of the sitting, when I
was able to examine in light the so-called Old Lady impression, I
found that it had only one notch, and therefore was the first piece of
wax softened and not the second.
There were only two possible alternative explanations of the facts
I had observed. The first was that I had made an inexcusable
bkmder and had miscounted my own marks on the wax, putting
the double notched piece C into the water thinking it was the single
notched one B. The second was that Walter was in error in his
assertions that the impression was made on the second piece of wax
and that the first piece was spoiled. In the bustle and excitement
of the sitting I saw no way to decide between these two alternatives,
and in fact it was some time before the matter became clear. As the
sequence of events is somewhat confusing I propose to give a brief
statement of that sequence in the form of numbered paragraphs.
1 . At the beginning of the sitting there is on the table a half cake
of wax, A2, which had been softened and squeezed together
on the previous day.
2. The first piece B or C is put into the hot water.
3. It is taken out of the hot water by Walter, who says the water
is too cold. (It is impossible to suppose that it was left in
the hot water dish, which had to be refilled, and where it
might adhere to and interfere with the second piece.)
4. The hot water dish is refilled : a second piece of wax, C or B, is
put into it and the medium's hands are held by Dr Brown
and myself.
5. Dr Brown is directed to pick up the finished impression. He
picks up the old half piece A2 which was on the table from
the previous day.
6. He finds what is said to be the right impression and hands it
to me.
7. The medium's hands are let go by Dr Brown and me, and Mrs
Brackenbury and Dr Crandon return to the seance-ioom.
8. After some remarks from Walter he says " Here you are,
WooUey," and something is heard to fall on the floor. On
being picked up after the sitting this is found to consist of
the old half piece A2 which Dr Brown had picked up fixst
and a whole piece C, the two being squeezed firmly into one.
Now if Walter is correct in saying that the impression was made
on the second piece of wax, it necessarily follows that the piece
squeezed up with the old half piece was the first piece which he said
117] The Margery Mediumship and London Sittings 367
was spoiled. But this first piece was taken out of the water (which
he said was too cold to soften it properly) in paragraph 3 above.
It ought to have been cooling on the table, or in the cold water,
through all the events detailed in paragraphs 4, 5, and 6, because up
to this point the half piece (which was afterwards squeezed up with
it) was still separate, and was picked up by Dr Brown. Actually
the combined one and a half pieces have been squeezed up when one
of them at any rate was very soft, as can be seen from the complete
obliteration of the original outlines. It would have been quite
impossible to squeeze so completely a piece of wax which had been
cooling for so long.
These considerations seem to me to make it quite clear that the
second alternative I mentioned was the correct one and that I had
not made any mistake in my marked pieces of wax.
At the time however I had neither the various data which have
accumulated since nor the time to consider what data I had. All
I could do was to dictate a very guarded note which I print below,
and which, so far as it goes, bears out my present statement that I
had noticed the notch on the wax and was not inclined to agree with
Walter's claim without further evidence :
" Dr Crandon was not in
the seance-room from the time that the second marked piece of wax
was put into the dish until the time of the picking up of the impressed
piece by Dr Brown." As soon as I was satisfied as to the fate of the
two pieces of wax I communicated my opinion to Dr Crandon by
letter of 30 January, at the same time that I informed him of the
presence on the spoilt wax of the medium's finger impression which
forms the subject of Part I of this paper.
I have given above a summary of the course of events during the
sitting and have tried to show that their time relations are incon-
sistent with the claim which Walter made. I have now to consider
how far that sequence is consistent with my view that the impression
was made on the first piece and not on the second.
I suggest that the first piece B was softened in the usual way and
was impressed with the thumb mark which it now bears. It was
then left on the table between the cold water dish and the medium,
there being also present near the dish the old half piece of wax A2
from the previous sitting. Walter then announced that the wax was
spoiled and that the second piece C would be impressed by the Old
Lady while the medium's hands were held. The second piece was
accordingly put in the hot water dish by me and remained there
until after the first piece B, bearing the impression, had been picked up
by Dr Brown and the medium's hands were released. At some point
after this the second piece C was taken out of the hot water and
squeezed up with the old half piece A2. From the fact that it now
bears the impression of the medium's finger I deduce that Walter
368 The Margery MediumsMp and London Sittings [part 117]
used the medium's right hand to squeeze it up. It was then thrown
on the floor very soon after the return of Dr Crandon to the seance-
room.
These suggestions seem to me to be consistent both with the
sequence of events and with the present condition of the pieces of
wax. The claim that the " Old Lady " print was made on the
second piece of wax seems consistent with neither.
In conclusion, it seems worth while to draw attention to one
detail in which the procedure at this sitting deviated from that
usually followed by Dr Crandon. It is usual, I believe, for the hot
water dish to be filled in red light : this is obviously more convenient
and safer. On this occasion complete darkness was maintained
from the time that the first piece was put into the hot water until
after Dr Crandon's return to the room. If I am right in suggesting
that the finished Old Lady impression was lying on the table at the
time when the hot water dish was being refilled for the second cake
of wax, there is sufficient reason for Walter's maintaining complete
darkness during that part of the experiment.
EEVIEW.
Henry Monnier, Etude medicate de quelques giierisons smvenues d
Lourdes. 8vo, pp. 67, 6 ill. Paris : Editions Medicales N.
Maloine, 1930. Price M fr.
The above work is a " these pour le doctorat ". Dr Monnier
(of Neuilly-sur-Seine) defended it before tlie Paris Faculty of Medi-
cine on 7 April 1930 with complete success (" Mention tres honor-
able "). This fact is perhaps as interesting in a way as the cures
themselves. We are not sure that it was the first time a physician
selected the Lourdes phenomena for his thesis ; but even granted
that Dr Monnier had predecessors in this respect, these must have
been very few indeed.
We heartily congratulate the learned Faculty on the toleration
and breadth of view manifested by it in admitting so unorthodox
a thesis ; in this we concur mutatis mutandis with a personality of
no less exalted rank than Pope Pius XI, to whom the writer—a most
devout Roman Catholic—sent a copy of his work, and who, in thank-
ing Dr Monnier, expresses the opinion in a letter signed by his Car-
dinal Secretary of State (which letter is reproduced in the volume
in facsimile) that the aforesaid admission is a " happy symptom ".
Dr Monnier's religious fervour is fm'ther attested by the fact of
his " study " being dedicated inter alia to Jesus " Christ, Saviour
and Master ", the Virgin Mary and the (Roman Catholic) Church.
This circumstance will possibly prejudice against him some of our
members. Though I can miderstand their standpoint, I prefer
welcoming the author's frankness and sincerity. I will also avail
myself of this opportunity respectfully to remind those members
that in the present phase of its existence Dr Monnier's Church by
no means views alleged contemporary " miracles " with undue
favour. It is true that the Lourdes phenomena seem to be privileged
in this respect (though belief in them is not defide), but the attitude
of that Church towards the Konnersreuth stigmatica, for instance,
is a proof of its present circumspection, a circumspection which in
some other cases has been akin to hostility. It would be therefore
unjust, I think, to regard the Roman Catholic fervour of Dr Monnier
as detracting from the value of his observations and deductions.
These deal with three cases : that of Mme Augault, born at Craon
369
370 Review [part
(Mayenne) in 1877, cured in August 1926 ; that of Charlotte
Renauld, born in 1874, cured in 1892 (this case was investigated by
the writer's father, Dr Louis Monnier) ; and that of Mile Emilie
Cailleux, specially observed by Dr Pierre Goret, cured in August
1921.
In the first case—the only one, so far as I can see, which appears
in print for the first time—we have to do with a fibroma, whose
existence is attested by four physicians ; in Charlotte Renauld's
case with a shortening by three centimetres of her left leg (this
shortening seems to have beg\m, by the way, in the patient's
fifteenth year : a circumstance which in the eyes of some may be
an argument in favour of its "hysterical" character); in Mile
Cailleux's case with Pott's disease and Paraplegia (besides Dr Goret
who specially investigated this case we have attestations of other
physicians too). All the three patients were cured at Lourdes, the
two first apparently instantaneously, the third more gradually, and
these cures appear to have been definitive.
There seems to be no reasonable doubt that viewed from the
standpoint of orthodox medicine they are " absolutely extraordinary
'
'
(Dr L. Monnier on the Charlotte Renauld case). Nature does not
produce such results even with time at its disposal, Dr Goret thinks
d propos of some particulars of Mile Cailleux's case.
Some readers will no doubt regret that only in the Augault case
has our author been to a certain extent (a very limited one) in
personal contact with the patient. (Mme Augault's ordinary
physician was Dr Faligant, who informed Dr Monnier in December
1929 that since her return from Lourdes he had not to attend her
at all). Whatever may be thought on that particular point, I for
my part do not hesitate to state that I am ready to accept these
three cures—as well as several others of the same character—on
their face value. I am willing to believe the medical evidence
adduced in this and some other cases adequate. I have almost no
doubt that the cures were effected by means of which we know little
—if anything—and which seem to be entirely, or almost entirely,
beyond our control at present. But more than this it does not seem
to me safe to assert.
Dr Monnier is no doubt right in showing (in the chapter entitled
" La cause de ces guerisons ") that suggestion, as he understands
it, had nothing to do with the results. Mme Augault, for instance,
" if suggestion had the power attributed to it by some, would have
died at Lourdes ", in consequence of what Dr Faligant had cate-
gorically stated to her. But of course only direct suggestion can be
meant here. Also more or less direct autosuggestion which the
writer also attempts to disprove (pp. 53-55). Emilie Cailleux, he
says, did not ask to be sent to Lourdes, she merely consented to go
117] Review 371
there. It is true that she seems to have had complete confidence in
the Virgin Mary (" Ces quelques lignes ne sont pour ainsi dire,
qu'mie repetition du mot : confiance "), but she had no initiative,
and merely let " events come ". As to Charlotte Renauld, " psycho-
logical documents " bearing on her case are missing, and so Dr
Monnier " abandons her to those who think that an act of her will
could have suddenly added the three missing centimetres to her
inferior limb "
(p. 55).
Here I cannot follow the author, I confess. And his line of
reasoning does not convince me. Primo : How does he know that
autosuggestion cannot produce in our organism profoimd modifica-
tions stich as have never been provoked nor are likely to be induced,
at least for a very long time to come if ever, by direct suggestion ?
Secundo : Why identify autosuggestion with the patient's conscious
will, conscious convictions or conscious expectations ? These may
help ; but why should they be indispensable ?
On the other hand : that stigmata a la Therese Neumann—to
return to her—may be due not to a " miracle ", that is to the
intervention of a superhuman entity, but to recondite psychological
and physiological processes will now be admitted even by many of
Dr Monnier's co-religionists. Out of some 300 stigmatised persons
known to history only a fraction have been canonised by the Roman
Catholic Church, which proves that even Roman Catholics are by
no means bound to regard stigmata -per se as of a supernatural
origin. It is true that from them to some of the Lourdes " miracles
"
there seems at times a very long way ; but may we not suspect that
the difference is not so much qualitative as quantitative ?
The more I think on these matters the more I am inclined tenta-
tively to postulate as a working hypothesis that religious faith may
be one of the most powerful factors in human existence. I will
compare it in this respect to the sexual instinct. The latter, which
is much more powerful, still creates life incessantly and everywhere.
Religious faith on the other hand is apt, we may suppose, to affect
living tissues, to fathom the depths both of the human psyche and
of the human physical organism, to produce in both radical changes
in a way of which we have barely an idea. Why can it tap in this
fashion the hidden energies of the ego ? We do not know. It is
one more mystery of Nature, but a mystery for whose reality there
is, I think, some little evidence.
Of course there must be limits to the power of religious feeling.
It will never cause a house or a mountain to move, any more than
it will bring a dead man back to life. I also strongly suspect that
if I have my right hand chopped off, no amount of faith will cause
it to coalesce again with my arm. But, barring these extreme cases,
I think that we should be very circumspect as to what faith, religious
372 Review [part
feeling, can or cannot achieve in a diseased human body, especially
in particularly appropriate surroundings (sucli as Lourdes), where
we may tentatively suppose there may have accumulated in the
course of years something like a huge reservoir of mysterious
psychical elements laden with latent potentialities. At times, in a
way of which we know as yet nothing, some of these elements, in a
moment of high tension (induced by a religious procession carrying
the Blessed Sacrament, for instance) will possibly " explode " —and
a sudden cure may be the resiilt. We have, of course, no evidence
that such a psychic reservoir exists, but I submit that its reality is
nevertheless much more plausible than for instance that of a cosmic
reservoir of memories in which some people are inclined to believe !
If we postulate such an hypothesis, faith direct and conscious
need not by any means be a sine qua non, though surely, as I said,
it may contribute to the cures. So much for Dr Monnier's assertion
that the three cases he has analysed had the " Christian Faith " as
their cause. Let us now turn to his conclusion (pp. 61-63).
In the first we are told that the malades in question, afflicted as
they were with various functional and organic troubles acknowledged
by their physicians to be either inc\irable or " very slowly curable
have been suddenly cured. As to this I have practically no doubt.
From which Dr Monnier draws two practical conclusions : (a) A
physician nmst not advise patients whose state can not be improved
by his methods and those of his confreres, not to go to Lourdes ;
(6) he is not to be blamed if he advised them to go there. Few of
us—and I least of all—will be inclined to dispute this.
On the other hand, I cannot agree with Dr Monnier when he
continues (conclusion 3, a) :
" If we call them (the cures) spon-
taneous, if we say that they have been caused by unknown natural
forces, we shall merely veil our ignorance with words, but shall not
exjDlain them."
I do not think we shall deserve this reproach if we postulate
tentatively, as I have done, that there is some evidence to show that
by itself religious belief—apart from its supposed " truth " ^
—is a
very potent factor not only of psychological but also of physiological
order, to whose operation limits should not be too hastily assigned.
In conclusion 3, b, we read inter alia that the malades had not been
submitted to any psychotherapeutic action which besides " could
not have cured them owing to the nature of their disease ". If here
suggestion in some form or other is meant the writer is very probably
right, but this is quite beside the point, as I have attempted to show.
In conclusion 4 Dr Monnier notes that the state of the three
^ Into the very interesting question why this evidence apjjears to be much
more abundant m the Roman CathoUc confession than in others I purposely
do not enter here.
117] Review 373
patients had been either stationary or had grown worse oxxtside of
Lourdes ;
" loin de la cause presumee pas de guerison " ; therefore
the " Christian faith " was the cause of the cures in question.
The last formula is—involiuitarily—far too vague, not to say too
diplomatic : for no intelligent agnostic—other agnostics do not
interest me—would, I think, refuse to subscribe to it, granting the
facts adduced to be real. It is obvious that, whatever the explana-
tion finally adopted, the " Christian " {i.e. Roman Catholic) religion
has something to do with the cures. But from this it does not
logically at all follow that the latter prove that religion to be the
true one. Now, though Dr Monnier does not say so expressis verbis,
he obviously had in mind something of the kind. His formula is
therefore inadequate from his standpoint.
I am not sure that the argument that the malades had not re-
covered outside of Lourdes (" Loin de Lourdes, ou d'un lieu equiva-
lent, aucune de ces malades ne gu6rissait avant longtemps, si tant
est que I'une d'elles eut gueri ", p. 59), is quite sound imder the pen
of a convinced Roman Catholic : for surely Dr Monnier believes
that his Church can work cures everywhere
In conclusion 5 we read (p. 63) :
" If it be objected to us that we
are here outside the domain of medicine, we shall answer that
science has no other limits than those of being : no truth is foreign
to the physician."
Bravo ! Let therefore the Lourdes " miracles " be investigated
in the same spirit in which all phenomena of Nature should be. Let
there be on one side due reverence, complete objectivity and
readiness to account any conclusion warranted by adequate obser-
vation, even if such a conclusion were peculiarly unpalatable to the
observers ; on the other side let there be willingness to acquiesce in
all reasonable conditions and to admit that the investigators have
the moral right to ask for criteria and tests of approximately the
same character as they would in any other sphere.
Conducted on such lines as these a scientific enquiry into the
Lourdes problem might be fruitful. Unfortunately I have my doubts
as to the possibility of such an enquiry.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
REPORT OF A SERIES OF EXPERIMENTS IN CLAIR-
VOYANCE CONDUCTED AT A DISTANCE UNDER
APPROXIMATELY FRAUD-PROOF CONDITIONS
I. Introduction, and Description of the Teclmique Employed.
By Theodore Besterman.
II. Statistical Analysis. By S. G. Soal.
III. Theoretical Analysis, with Suggestions for further Research.
By Ina Jephson.
[This paper is a sequel to Miss Jephson's paper on " Evidence for
Clairvoyance in Carcl-guessing " published in Proceedings, vol.
xxxviii. The objects of this further investigation loere to repeat the
experiment under stricter conditions in order to confirm, if possible.
Miss Jephson's results and perhaps to discover one or tvjo percipients
with outstanding clairvoyant powers. The reader must he ivarned before
troubling himself with details that the results have been entirely negat ive
in both respects. The present experiments do not afford evidence of
clairvoyance, nor do they exhibit what Miss Jephson called the "fatigue
curve " in series of guesses (Proceedings, xxxviii. 230 ff.). This curve
occurring as it did in the previous experiments with considerable
regularity with different percipients independently, and agreeing as it
seemed to do with the experiences of some experimenters in telepathy,
appeared to confirm the view that there was some regidar cause other than
chance at work in producing the figures obtained. The Committee of
Reference, when the present paper was referred to them, felt no doubt
that the. result should be reported to the Society, but they hesitated to
recommend the Council, especially in view of the expense involved, to
print in full detail this account of an experiment which had a purely
negative issue. The conditions, hovjever, have been thought out by the
investigators ivith so much care, and the result so carefully analysed,
that the Comrnittee believe the account will in itself be of value to future
investigators and moreover that as investigations into clairvoyoMce must
go on, it is important to know in detail about conditions in which it does
not appear to occur.~Hon. Ed.]
I 375
376 Theodore Besterman [part
I. INTRODUCTION, AND DESCRIPTION OF THE
TECHNIQUE EMPLOYED
By Theodore Besterman '
Cards I tel you . . . they are parlous beasts.
—Hay any Worke for Cooper, f. iii v.
In December 1928 Miss Ina Jephson published [Proceedings, xxxviii.
223-71) the results of a novel experiment in clairvoyance in the form
of card-guessing. The conclusions which that experiment appeared
to suggest were of considerable importance, but the percipients having
been uncontrolled, various difficulties (described below by Mr Soal)
arose. It seemed important, therefore, to repeat the experiment,
making use of a more evidential technique. Mr Soal's long-distance
experiments in telepathy coming to an end in February 1929, a
valuable opportunity presented itself to make use of his numerous
percipients for the purpose of repeating Miss Jephson's experiment.
Sanction was obtained from the Council, and the investigation was
undertaken by Miss Jephson, Mr Soal, and myself, jointly. The
experimental technique devised for the purpose of this experiment
is described in the present part of our Report. In the next part
Mr Soal will deal with the scoring and with the statistical analysis of
the results. Finally, Miss Jephson will analyse the results theoretic-
ally and make suggestions for further experiments.
It must first be explained that the experiments reported on in the
present paper consist of five distinct series. The first, forming the
main part of the experiment, produced 6,361 guesses. The second
consisted of a small series, producing 200 guesses, which was con-
ducted with the eight percipients in the first series whose scores
presented positive deviations greater than 2 x SD. The third series
was conducted with 95 members of the Boston S.P.R., producing
2,031 guesses. The fourth series was conducted by Professor
Gardner Murphy at Columbia University with 157 percipients and
produced 784 guesses. The fifth series was carried out by Professor
J. C. Flugel with 24 students of University College, London, pro-
ducing 120 guesses. For the sake of convenience and uniformity
these five series will be referred to throughout this paper as the
Joint, Supplementary, Boston, Murphy, and Flugel series, and Miss
Jephson's original experiment will be referred to by her name.
These particulars are tabidated in Table I.
118] Introduction, Description of Technique Employed 311
Table I
Name of Experiment.
No. of
Percipients.
No. of
Guesses.
Joint . . . .
Supplementary .
Boston
Murphy
Flugel
Total .
283
8
95
157
24
6,361
200
2,031
784
120
5671 9,496
Proceeding now to a description of the technique, it is necessary
to emphasise again at the outset a point to which attention has
already been drawn in the title of this paper : that the technique
devised for these experiments does not purport to be strictly fraud-
proof so far as the percipients are concerned ; nor do I believe that
it would be possible to devise such a technique. What himian
ingenuity could devise, human ingenuity could circumvent. As in
the classic illustration of this fact, the unsinkable battleship always
goes to the bottom in the long run, and the irresistible gun is resisted.
Our aim was not so much absolutely to prevent any possible fraud
on the part of the percipients, as to prevent the more or less innocent
forms of fraud due to thoughtlessness and to vanity, or to a misplaced
sense of humour. It was also intended to make fraud so difficult as
to make it probable that cases of successful fraud, if any, would be
so few as not to affect the cumulative result. And I may as well
say here, once and for all, that although we think we succeeded in
doing this, we have no reason whatever to suppose that any of our
percipients either wished or attempted to deceive us.
So far as the percipients were concerned, therefore, we were per-
force content with conditions that were only approximately fraud-
proof. But we introduced a novel feature into the experiments :
we devised means to make them to all intents and purposes fraud-
proof so far as the experimenters themselves, and their colleagues,
were concerned. In ordinary scientific experiments the integrity
of those conducting the investigation is assmned. Indeed, as
Professor Sidgwick pointed out in his fourth Presidential Address,-
it is taken so very much as a matter of course that the assimiption
passes unnoticed : it is nevertheless very real. A few cases are even
on record in recent years where this assimiption led to the acceptance
of dishonest work.
^ In this total the eight percipients who took part in the Supplementary
series of course appear twice.
* Proceedings S.P.B. {1884:), a. 155.
378 Theodore Besterman [part
In psychical researcli the position is different. The whole subject
matter of our researches is so doubtful and obscure, so widely
questioned, that where results have been published capable of a
normal explanation only by assuming the dishonesty of the investiga-
tor, that assumption has been made as the lesser of the two evils.
A good deal could be said as to the propriety of such an attitude,
but it is not my business to enter into that here. I have merely
to explain that we thought it worth while to see whether it is possible
to conduct such an investigation as the present one in such a way as
to make it impossible for those conducting the experiment to fake
the results. This we undoubtedly succeeded in doing, as will be
seen below, but only at the cost of so much unnecessary work and
misplaced ingenuity, that we should all be sorry to have to undergo
the experience again.
An important element in the technique employed was that of the
materials used, a point to which a good deal of thought and research
were devoted. The main objective was to discover a comparatively
fraud-proof and not too extravagantly costly method of sending
playing-cards through the post to a considerable number of per-
cipients in such a way that literally nobody should know what cards
were being sent to the percipient.
It was assumed for the purpose of the experiment (since the
possibility cannot be ruled out) that clairvoyance, if there is such a
thing, obeys the laws of normal vision. The first thing to do,
therefore, was to avoid anything that might interfere with the clear
vision of a playing-card enclosed in an envelope, supposing that
what takes place is that the card is seen through the envelope. Now
a normal playing-card has a more or less elaborately coloured design
on the back, and this would clearly prove a difficulty, an important
object of these designs being in fact to prevent the cards being seen
through while being played. A special supply of cards of strong
quality and with blank backs was therefore obtained from the
Universal Playing Card Company Ltd., Crown Point Works, Leeds.
The next point to be considered was that of the envelopes in which
the cards were to be enclosed. It was necessary that it should not
be possible, on the one hand, to open and reclose the envelope
without leaving distinct traces, and, on the other hand, to see
normally the playing-card while it was in the envelope. These two
necessities were met jointly thus : (1) An envelope was used of such
a size that the playing-card fitted into it exactly, giving it no free
play at all ; (2) the envelope was made of a strong but rather coarse
textured paper which offers a very good surface for adhesive pur-
poses, and which cannot be rendered transparent by strong light,
X-rays, water, alcohol, ether or the like ; (3) the envelopes used
were blue, so that the coloiir woidd not interfere with, or suggest,
The actual eolonr of tlie envelopes is rather darker and of the strip.
paper rather lighter.
Km;. 2
Thv actual coluur of the cmcldpcs ix i-atlicr darker and of (he strips of
pap<'i- i-a(her lighter.
118] Introduction, Description of Technique Employed 379
the red and black of the playing cards ; (4) round the envelope was
placed by the manufacturers a strip of figured paper such as is used
for cheques, the printing ink on such paper being liable to run if
submitted to excessive moisture ; this strip began on the closed
flap of the envelope and ran all round the envelope, projecting about
half-an-inch over the open flap of the envelope (see Fig. 1) so
that when closed the upper flap was pasted on to one end of the
strip and the projecting end also came down on the strip. The
colour of this strip was grey on white ; (5) when the envelope was
closed a piece of dark blue tissue paper was gummed on to the back
of the envelope, entirely covering the opening. This tissue paper
shows the slightest moisture and cannot be removed without leaving
traces ; (6) finally, the Society's relief stamp was impressed on the
envelope, marking both sides of it and consequently the card con-
tained in it (see Fig. 2). These envelopes with the strips attached,
ready for closing, were manufactured for us by Messrs Alfred H.
Atkins Ltd, Fetter Lane, London.
I now turn to the preparation of the envelopes for despatch.
The empty envelopes having been delivered at the Rooms of the
Society, Miss Jephson and I, with Miss Newton, Miss Horsell, and
Miss Carruthers, assembled in the Secretary's Room. A quantity
of playing-cards was placed face downwards on the table and the
cards were placed by us face downwards in the envelopes, having been
supplied already shuffled. The cards and envelopes were of course
all alike and, to all intents and purposes, indistinguishable. When
a sufi&cient number of envelopes had been thus filled, they were sent
to Mudie's Bookbinding Department, New Oxford Street, London,
and were there closed down with a specially prepared paste of a
particularly adhesive quality. They were then returned to us. At
this point already there was nobody who knew what any particular
envelope contained, unless one or more of the five persons who placed
the cards in the envelopes had been able, in the presence of the others,
to make a secret mark on one or more envelopes and now had the
opportunity (none of us in fact had) to search these out from the
parcels of closed envelopes returned to us by Mudie's. The envelopes
had been sent to Mudie's, and were returned by them, in no particular
order. Even if the course described had been possible it would have
been useless, as will be seen.
The next process was to stamp the envelopes with some identify-
ing mark to enable us to keep track of them. After much discussion
a combination of letters was decided on. Letters were preferred to
numbers so as to avoid any possibility of the percipient being influ-
enced in his guess by the number on the envelope. For the same
reason the letter A (suggesting Ace) was avoided. The identifying
marks thus were BB, BC . . . CB, and so on ; a number of three-
380 Theodore Besterman '
'
'
[paet
letter marks were also used as the two-letter combinations were
exhausted. Each of these combinations was stamped on five
envelopes, since a set of five guesses was to form the unit of the
experiment. In order to preserve the identity and sequence of the
envelopes in each set of five, they were distinguished by writing the
letters v, w, x, y, z respectively, on the backs of the envelopes.
At the same time a scoring slip for each set was stamped with its
identification mark.
At this point the only person who may have known the contents
of any of the envelopes was myself, for the whole of the stamping
was done by me. I was therefore the only one who had the oppor-
tunity, while stamping the envelopes, to recognise marks which I
might previously have made on them while placing the cards in
them. This knowledge, however, would have been of no use to me
unless I could now arrange for the marked envelopes or sets of enve-
lopes to be sent to specific percipients with whom I should have
arranged a conspiracy and whom I would then inform what cards
were contained in the envelopes they were about to receive. (So
far as I am aware I have not met any of Mr Soal's percipients
except in the most casual way.) All this was rendered impossible.
The appropriate scoring slip, instructions, and a stamped envelope
addressed to the Society, were placed with each set of five cards
and safeguarded with an elastic band. In the meanwhile, a set of
outer envelopes, in which the sets of five were to be sent through
the post to the percipients, had been prepared by Miss Carruthers.
These outer envelopes and the sets of five were then handed to
Lieut.-Colonel Maxwell Dick, M.B., B.S., LL.B., who shuffled both
the sets and the envelopes as he pleased, and who put the sets into
the envelopes, in the presence of Miss Carruthers. At this stage,
therefore, not only did nobody know, but nobody could have known,
what card was contained in any envelope (assuming, of course, that
there was no general conspiracy between the investigators, their
colleagues, and Cols. Dick and Hayward, for the latter of whom see
p. 384 below).
The instructions sent out with the first set were as follows (drafted,
it will be realised, to interest the percipients) :
" It has long been believed that there is some connection between
the mental faculties of Telepathy and of Clairvoyance or second sight.
" As our experiments in Telepathy are now coming to an end,
the opportunity seems a favourable one for testing the theory that
good telepathists are also good clairvoyants.
" I am therefore asking for your kind help in a few simple experi-
ments that can be carried out in your own time at any moment
when you are free. We hope to begin the experiments as soon as
possible after the Easter holidays. ; .
118] Introduction, Description of Technique Employed 381
" Briefly, the scheme is this : Five sealed envelopes, marked
V.W.X.Y.Z. [this should have been v.w.x.y.z.] will be sent to you,
each containing an ordinary playing card. You will be asked not
to open the envelopes but to return them with seals unbroken,
together with a record of your impressions of what each hidden card
is, within, say, the course of a week.
" The experiment (which will not tie you down to any fixed times
of concentration, as did the telepathy tests) will then be repeated
with 5 fresh envelopes during the following week, until three or four
such sets of results have been obtained.
" Will you kindly let us know, when sending in your last set of
Telepathy impressions, whether you are able to take part in this
additional experiment 1 We shall then send you detailed instruc-
tions [these were not foimd necessary]. As it will he one of the most
important of its hind ever attempted in Psychical Research, we shall
greatly appreciate your help."
With the second to the fifth sets the following form was sent :
" We are enclosing the [fourth] set of five envelopes for the
Clairvoyant Experiment, and would be glad if you would kindly
return them with your scoring slip and nimiber as soon as possible."
When the first sets had been returned, with the scoring-slips
completed, in the addressed envelopes supplied to percipients.
Colonel Maxwell Dick opened the outer envelopes, took out each set
of blue envelopes, examined it, and called out the identification
mark to Miss Carruthers, together with the identification number
of the percipient. Miss Carruthers then stuck the completed
scoring-slips, which had been prepared with a gummed edge, on to
the record sheets prepared for each percipient. In this way the
original record made of his own guesses by the percipient was pre-
served and formed the basis of the subsequent scoring (Fig. 3).
The sets of envelopes (except a few disqualified because of damage
in the post) were then added to the remaining stock, from which the
second week's set had in the meanwhile been sent out. The same
procedure was followed for the second, third, fourth and fifth sets of
five. WTien the great majority of the fifth set of five envelopes had
been returned by the percipients the time came to open the blue
envelopes (the contents of which were of course still unknown) and
to enter the actual card against the guesses made by the percipients
on their scoring-slips. The opening of the envelopes was conducted
with elaborate precautions. As Colonel Dick opened each envelope
and called out the card contained in it he was watched and checked
by one of the investigators (who took turn and turn about in this
and the other duties I am describing). The entering of the cards so
called out was done by Miss Carruthers, tmder similar supervision.
In this way, humanly speaking, no error can have been made.
382 Theodore Besterman [part
Name
Address
91
Date Imp Rcmaiks. etc.
Number Cj §
Date Sep Zj'f ICjUj^
Time
Btfon Guessing
First Card .
AA7 .
1 IME
Ajter Guessing
Last Card.
Ntimber Cj ^
EL.
Card Sccrz
w
^^^^
X Id HtM&
y
s
Be'iori GuJssing
First Card
After Guessing
Lest Card
Time
Number O ^
Date QiJ- b'^ ISi
1
(OSice uw onXj)
Nuttiber
DaU :fuda^ ^ /^tj
SCORR
( Office itae ofdy)
Time
After Guessing
Last Card
Nu«ibc-r ^' f
D. S,
'
Card Score
(OSice ii£s ofilyi
•a
X ,f^j It, if^s^
2_ UfMJLJ
5"H e^«Ji
Bcfort Gtt^sing
First Card.
TlUE
After Guessing
Last Card.
d.J
P.T.O.
Fig. 3
1 These headings have no significance, forms left over from a previous experi-
ment having been used. _ - . , ,j . ..
118] Introduction, Description of Technique Employed 383
When each envelope liad been opened and the card contained in it
recorded, the card was replaced in the envelope and the opened
envelopes with the cards in them were placed in a strong-box, locked
by Colonel Dick and deposited by him at the Westminster Bank,
Tavistock Square, where only he, accompanied by one of the
investigators, had access to it. There the envelopes and cards will
remain until the publication of this report, after which they will be
preserved in the Rooms of the Society.
When the whole of the percipients' sheets had been completed so
far as possible, from them were prepared, with the same elaborate
precautions, duplicate sets, independently compiled and checked,
of records showing the history of each set of five envelopes. A
section of these records is reproduced in Table II, in the third column
of which are shown the percipients who received the sets ;
thus, QO
was sent to percipient no. 519 the first week, to no. 120 the second
week, and so on. It will be seen also that percipient no. 529
received set QP the third week, and set QQ the fifth week.
Table II
QO V 5 Hearts 519
w 8 clubs 120
X 2 clubs 153
y 6 hearts 8
z 6 spades 424
QP V jack diamonds 175
w 2 diamonds 372
X 7 spades 529
y 7 hearts 122
z 8 spades 62
QQ V 6 hearts 335
w 5 diamonds 568
x jack clubs 478
y 6 diamonds 283
z 10 spades 529
Finally, each operation being again supervised and checked, the
completed sheets were dictated to a typist. These typed records
were prepared in three copies, which were independently scored by
the investigators, as described by Mr Soal below. The appropriate
part of one of these sets was eventually sent to each percipient.
This completed the actual work of the experiment. A specimen
record, that of the percipient shown on Fig. 3, completely scored, is
shown in Table III.
384 Theodore Besterman [paet
Table III
No. of
T*ftrpi Tti ATI 1".
_1_ \DL\jLVJL\JxX\Jt
Card Actual
Card.
Class. Score. Total.
98 7c Ih OR 3-78
4d 5d SR 19-89
Js Qh POR 16-45
31i 4h SR 19-89
Qli 6s POO 1-70 61-71
3d 2c OR 3-78
9d Qh OC 8-79
2s 4h OR 3-78
Jh 3d POC 8.67
Ic Qc OS 16-85 41-87
Jd 5s POO 1-70
10c Kh 00 •73
Ih Qc 00 -73
2s 2d ON 30-54
7d 9d SR 19-89 53-59
2s Jc OC 8-79
Kh 3c POO 1-70
7c lOh OR 3-78
5h 6c OR 3-78
9d 5h CR 11-84 29-89
2c 5s CR 11-84
7d 2c OR 3-78
Jd 6h POC 8-67
8s 8c NC 38-60
Ih 5h SR 19-89 82-78
Mean Score = 10-79 Total = 269-84
The same procedure was followed with the Boston series, with two
exceptions : (1) the sets of five, instead of being sent individually
to each percipient, were sent in bulk, already prepared and stamped
for the post (with U.S. stamps previously obtained), to Boston,
where they were put in the post ; and (2) that in the later stages of the
work of examining the envelopes, etc.. Colonel Dick was obliged by
pressure of other duties to give up this extremely lengthy, tedious
and laborious work, and was replaced by Lieut.-Colonel W. D.
Hayward, M.B. The Society's best thanks are due to these two
gentlemen, who put in a vast amount of work of the dullest and most
118] Introduction, Description of Technique Employed 385
boring kind imaginable, with the utmost conscientiousness and with
imrelaxing attention. The exhaustive reports prepared by Col.
Dick on his work are available for inspection in the Rooms of the
Society.
The conduct of the Murphy series can be easily gathered from the
following instructions, which were prepared by Professor Murphy :
1. Each subject receives a pack of 5 blue envelopes, held together
by an elastic.
2. The subjects are informed that each envelope contains a card
from an ordinary deck of 52 playing cards. Removing the
elastic, each envelope is to be held for a moment by the subject,
who is told simply to make a random guess as to what card it
contains and to record the guess, immediately, on the front
face of the envelope. The cards are to be guessed in the order
in which they come ; and it is important that, when putting
on the elastic again, they make doubly sure that the envelopes
are in the order in which they were received.
3. If the subjects take more than 30 seconds to do the series of
guesses, hurry them up, telling them " not to go into a trance,
but to guess at random.'"
4. When the guesses are all recorded, each subject returns his pack
of 5, in the right order with the elastic on it, to the instructor.
To this need only be added that the blue envelopes in this series
were separately obtained by Professor Murphy, and were not the
same as those used in the Joint, Supplementary, Boston, and Flugel
series.
The Flugel series was conducted in the same way as that of
Professor Murphy, except that our own blue envelopes were used.
II. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS
- •
By S. a. SoAL
We must speak by the card or equivocation will undo us.
—Hamlet, V. i.
1. Introduction. The Jephson experiment produced some inter-
esting results. The deviations from the expected numbers in the
categories of Colour, Suit and Value were so great as to make it
certain that some factor other than chance had operated in favour
of successful guessing. The following table gives a brief summary of
these important deviations.
386 S. G. Soal [part
Table IV
[No. of guesses = Q, 000.]
Deviation Deviation
Actual Number from Standard
fjcTtectftf] Expoctcd T)ftvifl,tinn
JL^ ^ V ^CU 11.. O Vailiyj-cLl. vJ.
Number. Deviation.
Colour p = 1 /2 nearly
Guessed correctly 3307 3000 + 307 ±39 8
Suit p = l/4 nearly
Guessed correctly 1832 1500 + 332 ±33 10
Value p = l/13 nearly
Guessed correctly 664 461 + 203 ±21 10
It will appear from the above table that the actual deviations
approximate to 8 and 10 times the theoretical standard deviations
and three factors of this magnitude are conclusive as regards the
existence of an extra-chance influence or influences. We have
therefore either to postulate the existence of a widespread faculty
of clairvoyance possessed by a large percentage of the human race
and hitherto unnoticed by science or else to envisage alternative
explanations. These alternatives readily suggest themselves. The
large majority of the persons who performed the Jephson experi-
ment did so in their own homes using their own cards and under no
supervision by the experimenter.
We may readily envisage one or more of the following possibilities
operating in favour of successful results. We may suppose :
(a) A considerable proportion of the percipients failed to carry
out Miss Jephson's instructions. Instead of making and recording
the five guesses prescribed for each sitting these percipients per-
formed many more than five, and either selected their best guesses
or waited till a run of success appeared before recording their five
guesses.
(&) A considerable percentage of the percipients used cards
whose backs were worn or soiled, and of such a nature as to lead to
unconscious associations of the face values with slight markings on
the backs.
(c) Careless manipulation of the cards coupled with hyperaes-
thesia of vision enabled certain percipients to glimpse and partially
or wholly to read the faces of the cards.
{d) Deliberate faking of results on the part of percipients.
I do not for a moment suggest that {d) operated to any serious
extent. I merely envisage it as a theoretical possibility. I would
118] Statistical Analysis 387
indeed be the last to take sucli a lamentable view of human nature
and I think it far more probable that conditions (a), (6) and (c) pre-
vailed in varying degrees. After reading Miss Jephson's paper I felt
it urgent that her experiment should be repeated under conditions
of control which would definitely exclude possibilities (a), (6) and (c),
and render (d) at least difficult. As described by Mr Besterman,
an opportunity to do this soon occurred and the present report is the
result.
2. System of scoring. This system of scoring adopted throughout
the present series of experiments is based on the revised scheme
given by Dr Fisher in an Appendix to Miss Jephson's first paper
(Proceedings, xxxviii. 269-271) thus :
Table V
Plain Card Said.
Picture Card Said.
[King, Queen or Knave]
Category (Score Category /Score
00 •73 POO 1-70
OK 3-78 FOR 16-45
oc 8-79 POC 8-67
CR 11-84 PGR 23-42
OS 16-85 POS 15-64
SR 19-89 PSR 30-39
ON 30-54 PON 27-50
NC 38-60 PNO 34-47
NS 46-65 PNS 41-44
The individual scores are so adjusted that the theoretical Mean of
n guesses is 11-18 and the Standard Deviation of the Mean of n
guesses from 11-18 is
Thus the Standard Deviation of the Mean Score of 25 guesses
= -^==2 and the theoretical distribution is approximately normal
for 25.
With a set of 25 guesses the Mean Score would by chance alone
fall outside the limits (7-18-15-18) {i.e. 11-18 ±4) about once in
20 sets.
3. Method of Scoring. The 6,361 guesses in the Joint experiment
were scored by myself between August and October 1929. They
were independently scored under Miss Jephson's direction, and about
two-thirds of the whole were also independently scored by
388 S. Q. Soal [part
Besterman. Each guess therefore has been scored independently
at least twice. On 17 September, by which date about 6,168 guesses
were available, the Committee met to compare scores and totals.
Each experimenter in turn read aloud the card categories, scores,
totals of 5 and complete totals from his set of the typewritten sheets
described by Mr Besterman (Table III), the two remaining experi-
menters following his reading from their own slips and stopping him
at any discrepancy. In this way any mistakes that had been made
were corrected. Between 17 and 25 September a few more sets of
envelopes were returned and these were scored by all three experi-
menters at a Committee meeting held on 25 September. A few
odd sets continued to arrive at intervals until 30 October, by which
date the whole of the 6,361 Joint guesses had been scored.
4. Incomplete and Multiple Guesses. In the very rare cases in
which a percipient gave two guesses for the same card the score was
allocated to the first of the two guesses in order of recording, the
second guess being ignored whether it was better than the first or
not.
In the case of a guess that was incomplete we made it a rule to
award the lowest score that was consistent with the data at our
disposal
Thus the following examples are scored as shown :
Table VI
Card guessed.
Actual
Card.
Class. Score.
diamond lOh POC 8-67
knave 3d POO 1-70
ace Kc 00 •73
red ace . 3h CR 11-84
44 such incomplete guesses occurred among the 6,361 Joint guesses.
It will be observed that in her analysis of card preferences Miss
Jephson quotes the total of the Joint guesses as 6,317. Since Miss
Jephson is only able to deal with complete guesses in her section of
the work, the difference between 6,361 and 6,317 is thus fully
accounted for by the 44 incomplete guesses.
5. The Scoring of the Boston Guesses. The scoring of the 2,031
guesses produced by the Boston experiment was done under Miss
Jephson's direction. A set of the typewritten slips bearing the
scores and totals was put into my hands and I have checked all the
scores, partial totals of 5 and page totals as also the grand total
score. These scores and totals have also been checked by Miss
Jephson herself. The counting of the number of guesses which fall
118] Statistical Analysis 389
within the categories of Colour correct, Suit correct, Value correct
and Card correct has been done independently by Miss Jephson's
assistant and myself, an agreement being arrived at for each
category.
6. Analysis of the Joint Experiment. 283 persons took part in
this experiment ; 276 of these were residents of the British Isles who
during the previous nine months had taken part in my mass experi-
ments in long-distance telepathy. The remaining seven were
members of M. Rene WarcoUier's group in experimental telepathy
and all of them had also acted as percipients in experiments with
my own group.
A considerable percentage of the 276 British percipients had in
September 1928 written letters to the S.P.R. in which they claimed
to have had spontaneous experiences in telepathy or clairvoyance
or to have been successful in card-guessing. A small number of the
percipients claimed to be automatic writers or spirit mediums.
The 283 sets of guesses sent in may be classified as follows :
Table VII
178 complete sets of 25 guesses each = 4450 guesses
25 incomplete ,, „ 24 „ „ = 600
6 „ 23 „ „ = 138
1 „ 22 „ „ = 22
3 „ 21 „ „ = 63
35 „ 20 „ „ = 700
6 „ 19 „ „ = 114
5 „ 15 „ „ = 75
3 „ U „ „ = 42
1 „ 13 „ „ = 13
8 „ 10 „ „ = 80
1 „ 9 „ » = 9
11 „ 5 „ „ = 55
283 sets
Total number of guesses ;
Total score on Fisher's System =
Theoretical Mean Score =
Actual Mean Score =
Deviation =
Standard Deviation from
11-18 for 6361 guesses
10
6361 guesses
: 6361
: 70832-08
: 11-18
11-14
-04
•12
Hence Actual Deviation = one-third of Standard Deviation.
390 S. G. Soal [part
Result is therefore negative and there is no evidence of the
existence of any extra-chance factor.
7. Analysis of Colour, Suit, Value and RanJc. We next proceed
to inquire if there has been any general ability to detect the Colour,
Suit, or Value of the card in the envelope or to recognise that the
card is a picture. The theoretical number of cases of Colour correct,
Suit correct, Value correct, and Card absolutely correct will be
obtained by multiplying the number of guesses (6,361) by 1/2, 1/4,
1/13 and 1/52 respectively.
Now, although complete packs of cards were used in filling the
envelopes it so happened that since certain percipients were more
punctual than others in returning their envelopes some sets of 5
were sent out to percipients more often than others. Taking as our
basis for calculation the numbers of " actual " cards occurring, under
each of the 13 values in Miss Jephson's Table ^ we find that there
is a distinct excess of kings and a deficiency of queens. Each
" actual " card ought theoretically to occur about 486 times with a
standard deviation from this mean of ±21. The numbers of all
the values except those of kifig and queen fall within the limits
486 ±2x21. But the king occurs 569 times and the queen 441
times.
The total number of actual cards of Red colour =3179.
The total number of actual cards of Black colour = 3182.
The difference between Red and Black is so small that we may
safely use the factor |> = 1 /2 in estimating the expected number of
colour correct.
Again the expected number of each suit among the " actual
"
cards is about 1590 with a standard deviation = ±34.
A glance at Miss Jephson's Table shows that the numbers for the
different suits all fall within the limits 1590 ±2 x 34. We may
therefore without serious error take j) = l/4 in estimating the
expected number of cards with suit correct.
The expected number of cases in which the " guess " and " actual
"
cards are both picture cards would theoretically be found by mul-
tiplying the total number of picture or P-guesses by the factor 3/13
= -2308.
Owing to the fact that the number of actual picture cards is
slightly in excess of the theoretical number I have thought it best
not to use this factor but to count the number of actual picture cards
and find the ratio this number bears to the total number of actual
cards.
1 This Table is not printed in the present paper, but will be available at a
later date, when certain investigations connected with it are completed.
118] Statistical .Analysis 391
I find :
Number of " actual " picture cards =1524
Theoretical number = 3 /IB x 6361 = 1468
1524
I tberefore take as my factor 73 = -—— = -2396
D.3ol
Now actual number of P-guesses
recorded by percipients =1487
Hence the expected number of cases in which both the " guess card
"
and the " actual card " are pictures = 1487 x -2396 = 356.
The Standard Deviation for each category is calculated from the
formula
8.-D.=JNp{l-p)
where iV* =total number of guesses = 6361 and p = l/2, 1/4, 1/13,
1/52, in the case of Colour, Suit, Value and " Card Correct " res-
pectively.
Table VIII. [Joint Experiment]
Number of Guesses = 6361.
Actual
Number.
Expected
Number.
Deviation.
Standard
Deviation.
Number of guesses with
Colour correct 3218 3180 + 38 ±40
Number of guesses with Suit
correct 1609 1590 + 19 ±34
Number of guesses with
Value correct 466 489 -23 ±21
Number of guesses entirely
correct 122 122 ±0 ±11
Number of cases in which
card is correctly divined
to be a Picture 343 356 -13 ±16
A glance at the last two columns of the above table shows that no
one of the deviations even approaches double the corresponding
standard deviation. In fact the highest deviations do no more than
barely exceed their standard deviations. The results therefore are
totally negative as regards any supposed faculty of clairvoyance.
8. Distribution of Scores of Complete Sets. Of the 178 complete
sets of 25 guesses there were eight sets with mean scores exceeding
*For the expected number of "Pictxire Card detected" guesses iV = total
number of P - guesses = 1487.
K
392 S. G. Soal [PABT
15-18, i.e. with positive deviations greater than 2 x S.D. Only two
complete sets had mean scores of lower value than 7-18, i.e. negative
deviations exceeding 2 x S.D.
There are therefore 10 sets with mean scores whose deviations,
positive or negative, exceed twice the standard deviation. But the
expected number of such sets = 178 x -0455 = 8. Hence the actual
number of remarkable scores is only slightly in excess of the theore-
tical number. The table which follows gives the details of these
exceptional scores.
Table IX
Identity number
of Percipient.
Mean Score. Remarks.
623 '
15-32
98 15-46 Percipient claimed to have had pre-
visional dreams and telepathic
experiences.
233 m
o
15-46 Percipient claims to have had experi-
ence of clairvoyance, prevision and
viati
psychic ability to diagnose disease.
256 15-47
16-02 JL dOlUlCliu UClltJVCO lllliiOCli llKJ UC WlUll
lositive
out any psychic faculties.
366 16-77 Lays claim to no special faculties or
qualifications except honesty.
112 17-01 Approximates to 3 x S.D.
118 17-96 Exceeds 3 x S.D. Percipient claims
occasional prescience of future
events and ability to " control
colour-formations " before sleep.
200
'-+3
'
7-15 Apparently has had no psychic experi-
ences but interested in scientific
research.
718
nega
6-79 Claims to have experimented success-
fully with telepathy under his own
roof.
We note that only one percipient (no. 118) obtains a positive
deviation exceeding 3 times the standard deviation, but another
(no. 112) obtains a deviation just less than 3 x S.D.
Theoretically we should expect such a deviation (exceeding
3 X S.D.) to occur on an average once in 370 complete sets. It may
well be therefore that the one deviation expected in the 370 sets has
118] Statistical Analysis 393
happened to fall in the first 178 of these and the result cannot be
considered in any way remarkable or significant.
We may note in passing that percipient no. 112 guessed colour
correctly 22 times out of 25, suit correctly 15 times and value
correctly only once. No card was absolutely correct. He clearly
scored on colour and suit.
Percipient no. 118 on the other hand obtained nothing remarkable
as regards colour or even suit, which were guessed accurately 14
times and 9 times respectively. But no. 118 guessed the value
correctly 6 times out of 25 including 2 guesses .which were entirely
correct (NS).
9. Determination of the Observed Mean and Observed Standard
Deviation for the Complete Sets. In addition to the 178 complete
sets of 25 there were 25 " nearly complete " sets of 24 and 6 " nearly
complete " sets of 23. An incomplete set of 24 often arose through
the percipient writing " Joker " as a guess and such a guess of course
could not be scored. In the work which follows I have affiliated
these " nearly complete " sets of 24 and 23 to the complete sets of
25 thus obtaining 178 + 25 + 6 = 209 sets of which I analyse the
distribution of scores. I therefore assume for the theoretical
standard deviation of each set a "weighted mean" a = 2-01, which
has been computed on statistical principles.
By the usual methods of statistical analysis I find for the 209
sets
Observed Mean of a single set =11-12
Observed Standard Deviation a'= 1-97
Hence we have Theoretical Mean =11-18
Observed Mean =11-12
Theoretical Mean - Observed Mean = -06
Standard Deviation of the Mean = -^ where
JN
iV^ = number of sets = 209 and a = theoretical standard
deviation of the mean of a set =2-01
2-01
Hence S.D. of Mean = 4== -14
s/209
,T Theoretical Mean - Observed Mean -06
H-Cnce .—;
— —
Standard Deviation of Mean -14
= 1 approximately.
Hence there is no significant difference between the Observed Mean
and the Theoretical Mean.
Again we have Theoretical S.D. = (j = 2-01
Observed S.D. = (!'= 1.97
. Hence ci' - cj = - 0-04
394 S. G. Soal [part
And for a normal distribution in which the number of sets iV is
large we have
Standard Error of a Standard Deviation
*^
Hence the Standard Deviation oi a =
J2N
2-01
J2 X 209
= -098
Hence ~ ( neSiirlvl
Standard error in a -098
Hence there is no significant difference between the theoretical
Standard Deviation and the value obtained by experiment.
We find in fact that the experimental distribution of mean scores
coincides very closely with the theoretical distribution based on
chance expectation. To save unnecessary expense of printing the
details of the above calculations have been omitted, but copies of
the tables connected with them will be lent to any person who wishes
to study them.
10. The Further Testing of Percipients with High Scores. Al-
though the number of complete sets with scores exceeding 15-18 did
not seriously differ from the chance expectation, it was clearly
advisable that all percipients with scores greater than 15-18 should
be asked to submit to an additional test of their powers. With one
exception the first eight percipients mentioned in Table IX each
performed an extra set of 25 guesses. The same technique was used
as in the main experiment. As before the experiment was spread
over a period of 5 weeks, each percipient receiving five sealed
envelopes per week.
Percipient no. 366 was not tested because the last set completing
his original 25 guesses did not arrive till the new experiment was well
under way. His total score in fact was discovered too late for him
to be included with the others.
Table X gives the mean scores of this new experiment and for
comparison the original high scores. It will be seen that not one
of the seven percipients gets a score approaching even 14. We are
thus confirmed in our view that these original high scores were merely
the extreme fluctuations of chance to be expected when a sufficiently
large number of sets is examined.
11. Additional Investigation. It has been suggested that if the
faculty of clairvoyance bore any analogy to an imperfect visualisa-
tion of the pips of the cards then it might happen that, although the
percipient was miable to obtain an exact impression of the number
of pips, he yet might be able to distinguish vaguely between a card
with many pips and one with few pips. He might, for instance,
118] Statistical Analysis 395
mistake an ace for a two or a three, a four for a five, or an eight for
a ten. The ordinary scoring system would of course give no credit
for such approximate guesses. To test this hypothesis I have con-
structed four tables taking as my basis the 6168 joint guesses which
were available by 17 September 1929. These Tables show [a) the
number of times each " Actual Card " occurs for each guess value,
(6) the expected nimiber of times each actual card should occur for
each guess value, (c) the standard deviations from expected numbers
for each " actual card " value and (tZ) the deviations for each actual
card value from the expected number. Each table contains 169
entries.
Table X
[Supplementary Series.]
Identity No. of
Percipient.
Original Mean Score
in Main Experiment.
Mean Score in New
Experiment.
98 1546 10-79
112 17-01 11-95
118 17-96 11-85
221* 15-10 11-94
233 15-46 12-73
256 15-47 9-27
319 16-02 13-03
366 16-77 Not tested
623 15-32 11-97
A careful study of these tables warrants me in asserting that the
present series of experiments show no evidence of any systematic
tendencies to mistake certain cards for certain other cards or to
approximate to the number of pips on a card.
The actual tables and analysis are, to save expense, not
printed, but may be examined by any person interested in the
question.
12. Analysis of the Boston Experiment. Ninety-five persons
took part in the experiment and the total number of guesses was
2031.
* No. 221 was tested again since his original score was only slightly less than
16-18.
396 ;S^. G. Soal [part
These may be classified as follows :
Table XI
52 complete sets of 25 guesses each =1300 guesses
5 incomplete ,, ,,24 ,,
= 120
1 „ set „ 23 = 23 „
18 „ sets „ 20 „ = 360 „
5 „ „ „ 19 „ „ = 95 „
4 „ „ „ 15 „ „ = 60 „
1 ), set ,, 14 ,, = 14 „
1 „ 11 = 11
2 „ sets „ 10 „ = 20 „
4 j> J) )) 5 ,, „ = 20 „
2 „ „ „ 4 „ „ = 8 „
95 sets Total 2031 guesses
Total Number of guesses = 2031
Total Score on Fisber's System = 22817-65
Actual Mean Score = 11-23
Theoretical Mean Score = 11-18
Deviation + •05
Standard Deviation from
11-18 for 2031 guesses
=^= .22
72031
Hence Actual Deviation = l/4 of Standard Deviation (approx.).
The result is therefore negative and there is no evidence of the
existence of any extra-chance factor.
13. Analysis of Colour, Suit, Value and Rank. As in the case of
the Joint series I have calculated the theoretical number of cases
with Colour correct, Suit correct, Value correct and Card absolutely
correct by multiplying 2031, the total number of guesses, by 1/2, 1/4
1/13 and 1 /52 respectively. The number of " actual " picture cards
was counted and found to be 478 as against 2031 x 3/13 = 469, the
expected number. Now 478/2031 = -2353 and as the number of
picture guesses recorded by the percipients = 515 we see that the
expected nimiber of cases in which both the " card said " and the
"actual card" are pictures = 515 x -2353 = 121. We thus obtain
Table xii.
Table XII shows that none of the deviations attain even to the
standard deviation and there are no indications of any ability to
detect any of the characteristics in question.
118] Statistical Analysis
Table XII
397
Actual
Number,
Expected
Number.
JJt) Vld/tlUli.
Standard
Deviation.
JNumber oi guesses with
Colour correct 1022 1015 + 7 ±26
JNumber oi guesses with bmt
correct .... 489 508 - 19 ±20
JNumber oi guesses with VaLue
correct .... 154 156 -2 ±12
Number of guesses entirely
correct .... 41 39 + 2 ±6
Number of cases in which
card is correctly divined to
be a picture 130 121 + 9 ±10
14. Combined results of Joint and Boston Series.
Table XIII
Total Number of Guesses =8392
Total Score =93649-73
Actual Mean Score = 11-16
Theoretical Mean Score = 11-18
Deviation from 11-18 = --02
Standard Deviation from
11-18 of 8392 guesses
10
s/8392
•11
Hence Actual deviation = about 1/5 of Standard Deviation.
Hence for the combined series the result is negative.
15. Analysis of Combined Series for Colour, Suit, Value, Rank.
A glance at Table XIV shows that in the combined series none of
the deviations are significant.
16. Distribution of Scores in the Combined Series. In the com-
bined series we have
230 complete sets of 25 g-uesses
30 " nearly complete " sets of 24 guesses
7 ,, <) J) 5) 23 ,,
Total 267 sets
398 S. G. Soal [part
Table XIV (8392 guesses.)
Actual
Number.
Expected
Number.
Deviation.
Standard
Deviation.
iNuniDer oi guesses witn
\jUIUIAjI L-UiltJL'u • >
4-94-0 4^1 Qfi 4- 4-4- 4-46
x\ uiuuer oi guesses wnjn ouu
coiiecu .... A
U _L AO
±
U-lllUd tJl i^U-t-'OotJo Wiull V U/ltlt/
correct .... 620 646 -26 ±24
Number of guesses entirely
correct (NS) . 163 161 + 2 ±12
Number of cases in which
card is correctly divined to
be a picture . 473 477 -4 ±19
We take as our theoretical Standard Deviation a " weighted
"
standard deviation computed to be c!' = 2-01, and proceed to find the
observed values of the mean and standard deviations of a single set.
We find Observed Mean =11-14
Observed Standard Deviation = 2-03
Hence Theoretical Mean - Observed Mean
= 11-18- lM4 = -04.
^1
V267"
Theoretical Mean - Observed Mean -04
And Standard Deviation of Mean: -12.
-12
~*
Hence
Standard Deviation
Again Observed S.D. - Theoretical S.D. = 2-03 - 2-01
= -02.
2-01
And Standard Error of the Standard Deviation
J2 X 267
= -09.
Hence
Observed S.D. - Theoretical S.D. -02
Standard Error of S.D. -09
= i (approx.).
Hence for the combined series the theoretical mean and Standard
Deviation agree very closely with the experimental values of these
quantities and the actual distribution is found to agree with that
expected on the assumption of chance. The details of the above
computations may be examined by any person who wishes to see
them.
118] Statistical Analysis 399
17. Note on Exceptional Scores [Boston Series]. Out of the 52
complete sets of 25 there were three sets with mean scores less than
7-18 and three sets with mean scores exceeding 15-18 making in all
six sets with positive or negative deviations numerically exceeding
2 X S.D. The number of such sets on the basis of chance expecta-
tion is about 3. These exceptional scores are shown below.
Table XV
(Boston Series)
Identity Number
of Percipient.
Mean Score.
944 15-95
1002 15-29
1114 16-15
915 6-97
967 7-10
1111 6-75
There is actually an excess of such sets as compared with chance
expectation. We have not however made further tests with these
few percipients.
•
18. The Murphy Series. In this series Professor Murphy informs
us 157 percipients took part. The total nvimber of guesses obtained
was 784, and the percipients with one exception did five guesses
each. These 784 guesses have been scored imder Miss Jephson's
direction with the following results :
Table XVI
Number of Guesses = 784
Ntmiber of Percipients = 157
Total Score =8150-92
Mean Score = 10-40
Theoretical Mean Score = 11-18
Deviation from 11-18 = --78
Standard Deviation for
784 guesses
= .36
n/784
In this case the actual deviation just exceeds twice the standard
deviation, but as this deviation is negative it is not evidence of any
positive clairvoyance.
400 S. G. Soal [part
In Table XVII we analyze tlie separate characteristics of tliis
series.
Table XVII
(Total = 784 guesses.)
Actual
Number.
Expected
Number.
Deviation.
Standard
Deviation.
Colour correct 371 392 -21 ±14
Number of guesses witb Suit
correct . . . 177 196 -19 ±12
Numberof guesses with. Value
correct .... 50 60 -10 ±7
Number of guesses with card
entirely correct 12 15 -3 ±4
Number of cases in which
card is correctly divined
to be a picture 48 56 -8 ±6-6
19. The Flugel Series. Finally a series of 120 guesses was obtained
by Professor Flugel. In this experiment 24 percipients took part,
each percipient making 5 guesses. These guesses were scored under
Miss Jephson's direction and the results were as follow :
Table XVIII
Number of Guesses = 120
Number of percipients = 24
Total Score =1291-86
Mean Score = 10-76
Theoretical Mean Score = 11-18
Deviation from 11-18 — --42
Standard Deviation for
120 guesses = ±-91
Hence results are negative.
Table XIX shows the analysis of Colour, Suit, Value and Rank
for this experiment.
Again it will be seen that the results tally closely with the chance
expectations. There were in this series no outstanding sets of
five.
118] Statistical Analysis 401
Table XIX
(Totals 120 guesses.)
Actual
Number.
Expected
Number.
±JG V loi uXUli*
Standard
Deviation.
umber oi guesses with
Colour correct ol 60 + 1 ±o-o
Number of guesses with Suit
correct .... 24 30 -6 ±5-0
Number of guesses with Value
correct .... 10 9 + 1 ±3-0
Number of guesses with card
entirely correct 2 2 ±0 ±1-0
Number of cases in which
card is divined correctly to
be a picture . 5 7 -2 ±2-5
20. Total Score for All Five Experiments. We give in this section
the total score for all the guesses at our disposal. We have :
Table XX
Series. Guesses. Score.
(a) Joint ..... 6361 70832-08
(6) Supplementary .... 200 2338-49
(c) Boston ..... 2031 22817-65
Id) Murphy 784 8150-92
(e) Flugel 120 1291-86
Total . 9496 105431-00
Total number of Percipients
who took part = 559
Total Score for 9496 guesses = 105431-00
Mean Score ' = 11-10
Theoretical Mean Score = 11-18
Deviation from 11-18 = - -08
'
Standard Deviation = ±-10
Hence the actual deviation is just less than the Standard Deviation
and the result of the combined series must be considered negative.
21. Conclusion. The present series of experiments provide no
confirmation of the hypothesis that the faculty of clairvoyance is a
402 8. G. Soal [part
normal faculty possessed in a slight degree by the majority of
civilised persons. Whether we should have arrived at different
conclusions if we had worked with 500,000 percipients instead of
559 it is of course impossible to say. So far as we have gone our
results are in agreement with those obtained by J. E. Coover ^ in
1917. Coover experimented with 105 percipients of normal
mentality working in conjmiction with 97 normal agents. Each
percipient made 100 guesses at playing cards drawn at random by
the experimenter from a full pack. In 5,000 out of the 10,000
guesses the card chosen was not seen by the agent or experimenter
until the percipient had recorded his guess. These 5,000 guesses
therefore were experiments in clairvoyance and Coover found that
the results obtained entirely conformed to the expectation of chance.
It has been objected to Coover's experiments that the conditions
were very unfavourable to the percipients who were allowed only
two minutes for each giiess with a minute's interval between suc-
cessive guesses. It might, I think, be urged legitimately that it was
asking too much to expect the delicate faculty of clairvoyance to
function at a moment's notice without regard to the mood of the
percipient or to his idiosyncrasies. Moreover the fact that the
percipient knew that he was to end his period of concentration on
the tap of the experimenter's pencil might have injuriously affected
the operation of spontaneous clairvoyance.
Now such objections will, I think, hardly be urged against our
own experiments in which the percipient was given a whole week
in which to record five guesses. He was able to choose both his
own time and place.
It will probably be suggested that in om' own series the enclosure
of the card in an envelope inhibited the facidty of clairvoyance.
Against this, however, I would point out that almost the only serious
experimental evidence for the existence of this pov/er is provided by
the gifts of M. Stefan Ossowiecki whose chief speciality is the divina-
tion of writing enclosed often in several sealed envelopes. In the
case of M. Ossowiecki at least the envelope does not inhibit clair-
voyance.
It will perhaps be contended with more reason that playing cards
do not possess sufficient emotional appeal to stimulate the supposed
latent powers of clairvoyance. Moreover, to request a person to
guess at a playing card will frequently have the effect of inducing
in his mind the image of his favourite card or of his lucky suit. This
image may be so persistent and spontaneous as to interfere with the
mental passivity which some claim is an essential condition for
clairvoyance.
^Experiments in Psychical Research (Stanford University, California),
pp. sojsr.
118] Statistical Analysis 403
The absence of emotional significance in the subject-matter of
experiment might be remedied by using a small set of cards on each
of which was inscribed a pictvire with a distinct and separate
emotional appeal. By performing large numbers of experiments
with this limited set the statistical advantages inherent in the use
of playing cards might be retained without the drawback of an
insipid subject matter. The possible inhibitory effect of mental
preference on the exercise of the supposed clairvoyance would how-
ever still remain.
In conclusion my special thanks are due to Dr E. S. Pearson of
the Statistical Department of University College, London, for his
very kind demonstration of a simple practical method of finding the
observed values of the mean and standard deviations.
III. THEORETICAL ANALYSIS, WITH SUGGESTIONS
FOR FURTHER RESEARCH
By Ina Jephson
It don't come out altogether as plain as to please me, but it's on the cards.
—
Bleak House, iv
When Mr Soal suggested that a further experiment should be made
with playing cards, using a more evidential technique than in the
Jephson experiments, I welcomed the suggestion for many reasons.
First, because it was essential that a control experiment should be
made with which the results of mine might be compared ;
secondly,
because the results achieved in past experiments with cards in
opaque envelopes (a few in the Jephson series and an interesting
collection by Professor Richet i)
gave plausible ground for hope that
a larger series might show some traces of the faculty in question.
That the results of the Joint experiment must be ascribed to
chance I found very disappointing, but before discussing the various
causes which may possibly account for the remarkable difference m
scoring in the free and the controlled experiments, there is one more
aspect of the results to be examined, and that is whether there is any
confirmation in the Joint series for the first or early guess success
observed in the Jephson collection, and whether there is any con-
firmation for the theory of fatigue put forward in my report.
1 " Further Experiments in Hypnotic Lucidity or Clairvoyance," Proceedings
(1889), vi. 66j5f.
404 Ina Jephson [part
For the reader's information I will recapitulate the conditions
of the Jephson experiment ;
^ 240 people took part, each guessed five
sets of five cards taken at random from the pack. Only a small per-
centage of experiments were witnessed, and as none of my percipients
knew what was expected I relied largely on the first or early guess
success as evidence of the unlaiown faculty and as evidence for true
recording. I was not sufficiently aware that I should be unable to
meet (except by a personal opinion) the criticisms made of this
method. Dr Fisher was the first to make clear to me—and it is a
perfectly fair criticism—that if my percipients waited to record their
results till chance gave them a success I should be given exactly the
effect of clairvoyance in the early guesses. This criticism did not
take into account that good corroborative evidence had been given
by the experiments made by Dr Estabrook in similar experiments
in " telepathy " and also by other experimenters, where selection
of results was not possible. Still, my own experiment was on a
large enough scale to have to make its own case and to meet criti-
cisms on its own merits. It is a legitimate demand that an investiga-
tor must meet objections not by reiterating faith in the bona-fides
of the experimenters but by the evidence of test experiments where
the sources of error have been excluded. The uncontrolled experi-
ments and the test experiments being exactly comparable in plan,
the analysis can be very simply stated, and the results compared,
with the view to discovering whether there is any confirmation for
my early observations.
The theory of fatigue put forward in my report was briefiy this.
I attributed the diminution of success which occurred in the results of
a total of 6,000 card guesses in the Jephson experiment (the 1200 first
guesses being definitely more successful than the 1200 fifth guesses),
to a fatigue of the faculty of clairvoyance. I assumed the faculty
to be a spontaneous one, and likely to be at its most successful in
the initial effort, before the conscious mind had time to interfere.
I therefore studied the results with a view to testing this, two
analyses being made, one of the amount of success in each guess from
the first of the little series of five to the fifth, and in the other I
counted each little set of five as a whole to discover whether the
earlier sets had higher average scores than the later sets.
I will begin by showing the analysis of the five consecutive guesses
in the Joint experiment and comparing it to the similar analysis
of the Jephson series. The scale on the left gives the score, and on
line A is recorded the average score for all 1st or A guesses, on line B
the average score for all second or B guesses and so on.
^ The Jephson series has been re-scored according to Dr Fisher's latest
aystem so as to be exactly comparable with the present experiment.
118] Theoretical Analysis, with Suggestions for Research 405
Table XXI
A B c D E
No. of
guesses.
Jephson X
Joint Y .
13-65
10-69
12-76
11-33
12-73
11-20
12-81
11-05
13-23
11-50
6,000
6,317
It will be seen that the curve in no way fulfils my hopes, in fact, it
is reversed, the last guess being definitely the best, and the only one
which even approaches the upper line of standard deviation.
If we examine the Boston and Murphy experiments on the same
basis, we find that in both there is deterioration in scoring from
first to last guesses in a set of five. The following diagram gives the
success from first to last guess in the two American experiments.
Table XXII
(Average Score for Guesses)
A or
1st
B or
2nd
Cor
3rd
D or
4th
E or
5th
No. of
card
guesses.
Jephson X
Boston Y
Murphy Z
13-65
11-24
11-14
12-76
10-94
9-60
12-73
11-42
10-40
12-81
11-56
10-22
13-23
10-99
10-63
6,000
2,031
784
118] Theoretical Analysis, ivith Suggestions for Research 407
(The marked variations in the Murphy experiment can be accounted
for by the fact that only a small number of guesses were involved.
With a larger number the averages tend to steady down to nearer
11-18.)
There remain the Supplementary and the Flugel experiments.
In the former a slight deterioration occurs from first guess to last,
but on this scale it is negligible, and most tmimpressive when com-
pared to the rise in scoring for the " D " guesses. In such a small
experiment again a very wide margin must be allowed for chance
variations.
In the same table below appear the results of the experiment done
by Professor Flugel with his class at University College, 24 per-
cipients.
Table XXIII
A B C D E No. of
guesses.
Supplementary . 10-78 10-60 12-33 14-63 10-38 197
Flugel 6-42 11-09 11-61 10-52 14-17 120
Both results must be considered pure chance results, and as in a
certain number of experiments the iiuctuations must be beyond S.D.,
the below and above S.D. results in Professor Flugel's experiments
are chance variations.
To sum up the results of the present experiments, so far as my
theory of deterioration from first guess to last is concerned, we get
the following results :
Table XXIV
Experi^nents in which deterioration occurs from first to last guesses
Boston 2031 guesses 11-34 to 10-99
Murphy 784 „ 11-14 to 10-63
Supp.
J97 „ 10-78 to 10-38
3012
Table XXV
Experiments where the effect is reversed
Joint 6317 10-69 to 11-50
Flugel 6-42 to 14-17
6437
So though if we count by experiments I am given a majority for
deterioration on the actual number of guesses the larger Joint
experiment swamps the effect, and we get the total curve :
408 Ina Jephson [part
Table XXVI
A B C D E
No. of
guesses.
(5 experiments
combined) 10-79 11-08 11-21 11-16 11-33 9449
whicli is definitely unsatisfactory from the point of view of my
theory.
If we now turn to the secondary analysis for deterioration to
discover whether we get confirmation for the more prolonged
deterioration observed in the Jephson experiment, which occurred
from the first set of five guesses to the last set of five guesses the
following is the result. It was not possible to make this analysis
in all five experiments because in Professor Flugel's and in Pro-
fessor Murphy's each percipient had only guessed one set of five,
but the following table gives the figures for the remaining three
experiments where the guessers had each tried five sets of five :
Table XXVII * (Sets)
1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th
No. of
Sets.
Joint 11-09 11-08 10-97 11-17 10-74 845
Boston 11-15 12-78 19-84 10-97 11-44 235
Supplementary . 13-23 11-31 12-71 9-01 11-58 40
1120
Or for clearness we can re-arrange the table thus :
Table XXVIII
Experiments where deterioration in scoring occurs fromfirst to last sets.
Joint 845 sets 11-09 to 10-74
Supplementary 40 „ 13-23 to 11-58
Experiment where there is no deterioration.
Boston 235 sets 11-15 to 11-44
Here we get a clear majority for a fatigue curve, and it is rather
tempting to imagine that it is a real sign of the increasing inhibition,
boredom or fatigue of the percipients. The diagram will show the
drop in scoring, compared to the similar deterioration which I had
observed in the Jephson experiment (see Fig. 6).
* Where my figures differ from those in other parts of this report, it is
becaiise I make use only of entirely complete sets.
118] Theoretical Analysis, tvith Suggestions for Research 409
Table XXIX (Sets)
1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th
No. of
Sets.
Jephson
Joint, Boston andSupp.
13-57
11-16
12-66
11-38
13-37
10-83
12-93
11-07
12-64
10-89
1240
1200
so
ini M I I M n I M M M M I
I M M 1^
r//£ S.D. FOR THE JEPHSON CURVE JS NOT SHOWN
AS IT IS ALMOST IDENTICAL WITH THE JOINT,
BOSTON AND SUPP. S.D.
Fig. (j
410 Ina Jephson [part
It is very doubtful whether, as in the present experiments all
scores lie well within the realm of chance, any significance at all can
be attached to them. Chance alone in a variety of experiments is
bound to give a certain number of like curves, and the result must
be considered quite inconclusive.
A subsidiary enquiry which had interested me in the Jephson
experiment and which I investigated again here, was whether
women had had more success than men, as that is what is convention-
ally expected where intuitive faculties are concerned. Seventy-
five per cent, of the women guessers were found to show fatigue
curves against forty-four per cent, of the men. Their scores were
slightly higher. This tendency to better scoring is confirmed in the
Joint experiment as the following table shows, thoiigh perhaps as
they are only superior by a decimal point it is hardly fair to call
attention to it.
Table XXX
Joint Series
101 men.
113 women.
Average score per set.
1st set of five 10-97
2nd ,, „ ,,
11-36
3rd ,, ,, ,,
11-16
4th ,, ,, ,,
10-92
5th ,, ,, ,,
10-62
1st set of five 11-20
2nd ,, „ „ 10-82
3rd ,, ,, ,,
10-80
4th ,, ,, ,,
11-39
5th ,, ,, ,,
10-85
The average total score for the five sets for men was 275-26, and for
women 275-4-1.
If we turn to the Boston experiment and study there the figures
for deterioration from first set of five to last, we find the last set
definitely the best, and in this case the men score considerably
higher than the women. The following table gives the result. I
have taken all those sets which were recorded as running consecutively,
but postal difficulties and in some cases unrecorded dates or doubtful
dates made it difficult to be sure in what exact sequence the sets had
been done. Therefore I have only taken those complete sets about
which there was no doubt, and this reduced the number consider-
ably. A certain number of percipients only recorded four sets,
which I do not record here.
118] Theoretical Analysis, with Suggestions for Research 411
Table XXXI
Boston Series
22 men.
Average score per set.
1st set of five 11-86
13-52
10-42
10-88
10-94
2nd „
3rd ,,
4th „
5th „
26 women.
1st set of five 11- 02
12- 37
9-19
11- 16
12- 56
2nd „
3rd „
4th „
5th „
The average total score for five sets for men was 252-73, and for
women was 229-35.
The Supplementary experiment I had examined with extra
interest. On the assumption that the highest scores were due to a
supernormal faculty a fatigue curve might be encouraging, and I
was delighted to discover the hoped-for effect. However, a fatal
industry led me to examine the results of the above-standard-
deviation group analysed in part II above, and I found there was
no drop from first to last guess but the reverse, and no deterioration
from first to last set but an improvement. I do not mean that by
these facts we can possibly decide whether the above-standard-
deviation scores were supernormally acquired or not, but merely
that on the particular analysis chosen the balance of evidence in
this small experiment is adverse to my suggestion.
Finally then, three experiments out of five give deterioration
from first to last guess. Two experiments out of three give deteriora-
tion from first to last sets.
This result is highly inconclusive, and when we also take into
consideration that the variations within the curve are more marked
than is the drop from first to last, it becomes more likely than ever
that we must ascribe the results to chance.
The main facts of the present experiments being now before the
reader, some attempt must be made at a summary, but I cannot do
so without discussing for a moment the criticisms on the Jephson
experiment. I am glad that everything which can be suspected of
my percipients can be suspected of myself in an even greater degree,
as my results figure among those recorded, and had I wished to avail
myself of it I had every opportunity of excluding such results as did
not tend to confirm my hopes. All the charges brought against my
412 Ina Jephson [part
collection are perfectly legitimate and Dr Fisher's objections are
particularly convincing. His explanation covers many of the facts
observed and explains the high scoring not by fraud but by the fact
that as I did not know exactly how many of my percipients had
failed to return their records, I could not meet the objection that
those who tried and were unsuccessful might have thought it not
worth while to send me their results. This alone would ensure that
the collection would be better than unaided chance would achieve.
It would be, in reality, a chance collection with the poorer results
weeded out of it. His second suggestion is that my unknown
guessers may not have begun to record their guesses until chance
gave them a success. As chance in the long run would tend not to
give two successes running, there woiild be a drop in score after the
first card, and thus automatically the effect of clairvoyant vision of
the first card is given. This criticism makes it quite impossible for
me to prove my theories on the experiment in question, but I still
cannot forget that the experiments which I witnessed gave the same
type of result as the unwitnessed, and how are we to account for the
fact that exactly the same effect of high scoring and early success
appears in Dr Estabrook's experiment in telepathy where there was
no scope for selection or for arranging the moment for beginning to
score ? All that the jury can decide is that selection and clair-
voyance give the same results, and though (as is obvious) common
sense and scientific respectability depend on accepting the most
normal explanation, I intend to consider the question still open.
For the sake of the revolutionary possibilities involved I will gladly
defer any claim to scientific respectability till I have done some
more exploring.
It has been assumed throughout this research that the test
experiments and the uncontrolled experiment were exactly com-
parable. But in what may be a most important divergence the
conditions were totally difSerent. My suggestion is highly theoreti-
cal and will reduce to despair those readers to whom the facts of
supernormal perception are delusion. But how can we be sure that
in using absolutely new cards as we did in the present experiments,
for the sake of uniformity, we are not taking away from the
percipients precisely the source of information whence they get their
knowledge ? I cannot see what else we are to do at this stage of
research than to accept at its face value the collected evidence of
experiences recorded by supposedly clairvoyant people. It is their
assumption that an object can carry with it impressions relevant to
it ; so that if they are in contact with an object they are also in some
way linked with the human experience with which that object has
been associated. The recent S.P.R. " Absent-Sitter " experiments
with Mrs Warren Elliot are the only experiments I know of under
118] Theoretical Analysis, with Suggestions for Research 413
control conditions which sought to test the theory that objects carry
some emotional influence. One cannot ignore the accepted tradi-
tion of many honest and intelligent sensitives, and the question
raised here is so fundamental that one is tempted to think that it is
the first problem which research should tackle. If we could get
information as to whether a clairvoyant gets an impression or
information direct from a material and physical object, we might
decide in that case that the faculty was in some form a material
one that ultimately could be classified (the analogy of wireless at
once occurs to one) on some wave theory. If, on the other hand,
a clairvoyant is only in touch with and can only report on thoughts
which have been associated with an object, the whole operation is
shifted on to a psychical or mental sphere. It would be interesting
to try experiments with mediumistic people, asking them to guess
alternatively absolutely new cards with which no thoughts are
associated, and then to try much-played cards. What, I wonder,
would happen 1 If it is only thoughts with which clairvoyants are
in touch the whole problem becomes definitely simplified. Under-
neath all our theories of telepathy is the assumption that a thought
somehow ceases to be dynamic once its moment is over. In tele-
pathy we picture an active thought impressing the passive mind of
the percipient. If we give up this assumption and picture the
thought as permanently dynamic (and here again we have normal
psychology on our side) telepathy and clairvoyance merge as it were
imperceptibly into each other and the same faculty is responsible for
both. In the case of telepathy the percipient gets the impression of
a thought simultaneously to the thought taking place in the mind
of the thinker, and in clairvoyance the percipient gets an impression
of a thought which may not be quite so recent.
The primitive and superstitious view which ascribes to relics a
real importance may have a grain of truth attached to it, apart from
normal associations. Any used card, such as those in the Jephson
series, we may consider, if we choose, as a relic, with its own appro-
priate image attached, and it may have been these images with which
the percipients were able to get into touch and which gave them
their information. As in the Joint experiment the cards were abso-
lutely new from the printers, it is arguable that they therefore had
no associative thoughts attached to them, so that in reality, when we
had sent out the envelopes containing the new cards, we had sent
out, from the point of view of the clairvoyant, exactly nothing at all.
We might just as well have sent the empty envelopes.
It will be quite rightly considered entirely premature to suggest
such wild and not even original speculations, and I am quite willing
to agree that it may quite likely be a normal reaction to scoring so
many thousand cards from several different points of view. I am
414 Ina Jephson [part 118]
tempted to speculate also perhaps, on accoimt of the more promising
nature of my new series where the experiments have been planned
so as to give the percipient the maximum of spontaneity, and to
eliminate as much as possible the use of the conscious mind.
Whilst I must acknowledge that on the analysis made the results
of the Joint experiment are chance results, I claim that it is too early
to consider the verdict of the experiment in any way final. We can,
and need only say, that under the given conditions, the experiment
was negative.
I cannot end without thanking on behalf of the three investigators
the chief people who helped in the prolonged work of the experi-
ments. Dr Fisher's help and advice were invaluable ; for at least,
whatever my theories, his scoring system and his supervision of the
statistics, enable the facts to be given without prejudice so that the
reader is free to come to his own conclusions. Professor Murphy
and Professor Flugel helped materially by contributing their most
welcome experiments, and the encouragement of their co-operation,
and the collaboration of many members of the Boston S.P.R. was a
most valuable addition to the experiment. Miss Newton and Miss
Carruthers were an ever-present help in times of toil, and Dr
WooUey's help in connection with the envelopes is gratefully
acknowledged.
REVIEW.
W. F. Prince, The Enchanted Boundary, being a Survey of Negative
Reactions to Claims of Psychic Phenomena, 1820-1830. 8vo,
pp. xi. 348. Boston Society for Psychic Research, 1930.
The difficulties encountered in psychical research are so many, the
opposition met with by the investigator so strong and usually so
uninformed, the criticism received even from those who are interested
in the subject often so irrelevant, that the active worker not seldom
feels despondent about the position and possibilities of the whole
subject. In such a mood Dr Prince's new book can be safely pre-
scribed as an effective tonic. Dr Prince is controversial, but in a
subject in which we are too inclined, from sheer weariness, to offer
the other cheek when buffeted on the one, it is highly suitable that we
should be able to return to our adversaries, though but vicariously,
one tremendous and irresistible blow. For, though Dr Prince's
pugilistic style is polished and though he imquestionably hits above
the belt, his very science makes his victory the more overwhelming.
The book opens with a reprint of Dr Prince's paper in The Casefor
and Against Psychical Belief. Next follows an article he wrote some
years ago, enlarged to well over 100 pages. Dr Prince assumes the
polite fiction that when otherwise able and learned men harry
psychical research an enchantment falls on them which prevents them
from seeing clearly. Hence the title of The Enchanted Boundary.
In this part of his book Dr Prince examines the criticisms of psychical
research published by a number of distinguished men, from Faraday,
Tyndall, Huxley, and Macaulay, to such lesser luminaries as Pro-
fessor Rine (an Adventist), the Rev. Charles Reynolds Brown (Dean
of Yale Divinity School), Mr Morris H. Turk (a theological writer),
and the Rev. 1. M. Haldeman (who has been described as " the
greatest prophet of the Lord now standing in any pulpit " in
America). It is impossible to question Dr Prince's claim that he has
established that none of these men has squarely faced and fairly
discussed the real evidence, that most of them are often guilty of
elementary blunders, that some of them quote incorrectly, that many
of them show ignorance of the literature, that they are guilty of
amazing solecisms in logic, that they exhibit " impatience, ' loathing,'
and other emotional aberrations," that they entrench themselves
415
416 Review [part
behind, the very scientific maxims which are in dispute, and that they
manifest a liking for what Dr Prince happily calls " technical
billingsgate."
Under the title of " Some Sample Explanations " Dr Prince then
deals with the Lehmann and Hansen theory of unconscious whisper-
ing, with Mr Salter's review of The Road to Endor, and with the
notorious, but elusive, mediumistic Blue Book.
The next chapter is a very important one. In it Dr Prince dis-
cusses the parallels and contrasts between the late Harry Houdini
and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Apart from the psychological interest
of Dr Prince's demonstration of the similarity of the mental pro-
cesses which led these two men to diametrically opposite conclusions,
Dr Prince's discussion should serve to give the final blow to two very
mistaken notions. One is that the creation of Sherlock Holmes was
evidence of superior detective ability in his creator ; those who are
inclined to believe this will find it useful to read pp. 150-151 of
Dr Prince's book. The other notion demolished by Dr Prince is that
skill in conjuring is sufficient qualification for investigating psychical
research. This is far too often alleged as a self-evident fact, whereas
it is one of those facts for which there is no evidence, however plaus-
ible they may seem at first sight. The best critical work in psychical
research has been done by men with very little or no knowledge of
conjuring, and some of the most expert conjurors have been notor-
iously tricked (as by Davey). It seems, indeed, that a conjuror's
resistance to the marvellous is capable of being more easily and more
completely broken down than that of the average person. It is
usually the conjuror who gives no serious attention to the phenomena
who remains militantly sceptical.
Dr Prince's next tilt is against the anonymous Essay on Capacity
and Genius of about 1820. In this work the usual sort of popular
account is given of the circumstances under which ghosts appear.
Dr Prince takes this account point by point and shows it to be almost
completely erroneous, so far, at any rate, as the S.P.R. material goes.
He deals in a similar manner with an address by Professor Persifor
Frazer delivered in 1875, and with Hibbert's Sketches of the Philo-
sophy of Apparit ions (1824).
The next chapter is a summary of Mr Piddington's comparison of
visceral hallucinations with those studied by psychical research,^ in
which Dr Prince refers very happily to Mr Piddington's " meti-
culosity "
(p. 203).
The whole of the remaining chapters are occupied by a discussion
evoked by a questionnaire sent out by Dr Prince to, it would appear,
all persons appearing in the American Who's Who. It is somewhat
to be regretted that this questionnaire is not printed in the book
^Proceedings (1905), xix., 267 flf.
118] Review 417
before us : it is often rather difficiilt to follow allusions to it. How-
ever, Dr Prince prints (p. 209) the particular question with which he
is most concerned, a selection of replies to it, and of his own answers
to these replies. Here is another cause for regret. Dr Prince has
" improved " his own letters for publication. Knowing what we do
of Dr Prince's accuracy, we can feel quite sure that his alterations
are only verbal and " literary." Still, it is a pity to expose oneself
to criticism in such a matter ;
nobody expects literary polish in
controversial correspondence of this kind.
The first chapter of this part of the book gives a number of specimen
replies to a request for a statement of the reactions of the persons
addressed to a very strong (supposedly hypothetical) case of super-
normal knowledge. The evasions produced by this question are
remarkable in their variety. Perhaps the most interesting is the
answer of a Professor of Bacteriology, who wrote amiably :
" You
f
will find '
Pancrobilin Pills, Plain,' Reed and Carnrick, a splendid
'
antidote ' "
(p. 211). It is an interesting illustration of American
standards that the precise religious denomination of the writers is
given in most cases ; these denominations range from Church of the
Brethren to Roman Catholic.
( The remaining chapters deal Avith replies alleging that belief in
psychical events is the result of pathological states, arguing from
negatived " premonitions," attributing the events to coincidence,
and so on. Under all these heads Dr Prince replies to his corres-
pondents with a courtesy equalled only by his forcefulness, putting
forth all the arguments of sweetness and reasonableness, though
seemingly w^ith but little effect on the minds of those addressed.
It would appear, indeed, that Dr Prince's labours will not benefit
those to whom the questionnaire was sent, but rather students of
psychical research, in the vivid light Dr Prince's discussion throws
on the psychology of the opposition to the subject by " scientific
"
and other " distinguished men.
A few points of special interest may be briefly referred to. In
answer to the question, " Do psychical researchers all agree that any
types of phenomena are supernormal ?
" Dr Prince cites four types
which he thinks all students accept. These are telepathy, veridical
apparitions, mediumistic deliverances, and psychometry. As to
telepathy Dr Prince is clearly right, and also in regard to veridical
apparitions. Dr Prince's explanation of the latter (p. 15) shows that
he has phantasms of the dying in mind ; but he does not say whether
in his view these demonstrate anything more than telepathy. The
same holds of mediumistic deliverances, which are hardly a type of
phenomenon in themselves. As to psychometry there can be little
doubt that Dr Prince is too optimistic in supposing there to be general
agreement about this phenomenon. I could name several psychical
418 Review [part 118]
researchers who do not accept it at all. Apart from this, it would
have been interesting to have been told whether Dr Prince believes
in any forms of psychometry beyond such as can be explained by
telepathy.
Dr Prince doubts (pp. 130-1) whether it will ever be possible to
put telepathy to the pragmatic test. But Dr Schiller has been
maintaining for many years that only by this very means will
telepathy ever come to be generally accepted.
In the letters quoted at pp. 304 if. Dr Prince is at some pains to
explain what is meant by the word supernormal. His correspon-
dents appear to think that the word is given a philosophical signi-
ficance. It cannot be too often stressed that in psychical research
supernormal is simply used to indicate that which is not accepted by
orthodox science, psychical research itself being the study of super-
normal faculties in man.
Our President, it will be obvious, has written a most valuable work,
one which will greatly stimulate all serious students of psychical
research and which will provide them with controversial material
for a long time to come.
Theodore Besterman.
ERRATA
Vol. xxxviii, pp. 409, 449, 450: for "Rondon" read "Kordon."
Vol. xxxix, p. 273, footnote: for "Private Meeting" read
"General Meeting."
p. 283, line 38: for "Huxley" read "Tyndall."
FORMER PRESIDENTS OP THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCBICAL RF.SI^ARGH.
Peofessor Henry Sidqwick, - 1882-84.
PaoFESsoR Balfour Stewart,
F.K.S., 1885-87.
Professor Henry Sidqwick, - 1888-92
The Earl of Balfour, K.G.
O.M., F.E.S., .... 1893.
Professor William James, - - 1894.95.
Sir William Crookes,O.M.,F.R.S ,
1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers, - • - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.K.S., - - 1901-03.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - - 1905.
Thk Right Hon. G. W. Balfour,- i90(i-07.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, - - - 1908-09.
H. Arthur Smith, - . - . i9io.
ANDREW Lang, 1911,
Rt Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., - . . .
Professor Henri Bergson, -
Fkofkssor f c. S. Schiller, O.Sc,
Professor Gilbert Murray,
LL.D., Litt.D.,
L. P. Jacks, LL D., D.D.,
Lord Rayleiqh, O.M., F.R.S., -
Professor W. McDouqall, F.K.S.,
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.. -
Camille Flammarion, -
J. G. Piddinqton. -
Professor Hans Driesch, pIi.D.
-M.Ll., LL.D. - - . .
Sm L.iWKBNOB J. Jones, Bart., -
W. Franklin Prince, Ph.D.,
1912.
1913.
1014.
1915-10.
1917-18.
1919.
1920-21.
1922.
1923.
1924-25.
1926-27.
1928-2:1.
1930.
OmCERS AND COU.NCIL FOE
president.
Dr Walter Franklin Prince.
vice-presidents.
1931.
The Earl of Balfour, P.C.
LL.D.
George B. Dorr.
Professor Hans Driesch, Ph.D.,
M.D., LL.D.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. PiDDlNGTON.
Professor F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc,
F.B.A.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
Sir J. J. Thomson, CM., F.R.S.
COUNCIL.
The Earl of Balfour, P.C., LL.D.
Sir Ernest N. Bennett, M.P.
W. R. Bousfield, K.C, F.R.S.
Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.
Professor William Brown, M.D.,
D.Sc.
Professor E. R. Dodds.
.T. Arthur Hill.
Professor Julian S. Huxley.
Miss Ina Jephson.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
G. W. Lambert.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E,
Professor W. McDougall, F.R.S.
T. W. Mitchell, M.B.
J. G. Piddington.
W. H. Salter.
Mrs W. H. Salter.
Profkssor F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc,
F.B.A.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt.,
LL.D.
W. Whately Smith.
S. G. SOAL.
V. J. Wool LEY, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
BON. TREASURER.
W. H. Salter, .31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. I.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
W. H. Salter, The Crown Hou.se, Newport, Ease.x.
HON. RESEARCH OFFICER.
V. J. Woolley, M.D., St Thoma.s's Hospital, London, S.E.I.
HON. EDITOR.
Mrs W. H. Salticr, ,31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
LIBRARIAN AND EDITOR.
Theodore Besterman, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. ].
SECRETARY.
Miss I. Newton, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
AGENTS FOR AMERICA.
The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
420 Members and Associates. [part
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
1931.
President—Dr Walter Franklin Prince.
Vice-Presidents.
The Right Hon. the Earl of Balfour, P.C., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking,
Surrey.
George B. Dorr, 12 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Hans Driesch, Ph.D., M.D., LL.D., Zollnerstrasse 1, Leipzig,
Germany.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, nr Salisbury.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
J. G. Piddington, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Professor F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, F.B.A., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Sydney C. Scott, 92 Westbourne Terrace, London, W. 2.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Honorary Members.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de Physique
Generale, rue Cuv^er 12, Paris, France.
Miss Alice Johnson, 111 Grantchester Meadows, Cambridge.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, rue Gachard 13, Ixelles, Brussels,
Belgium
.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Corresponding Members.
Professor Henri Bergson, Bd de Beau Sejour 47, Paris, France.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York, U.S.A.
Dr Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, Germany. ,
Professor Dr Freud, Berggasse 19, Vienna, Austria.
Professor Pierre Janet, rue de Varenne 54, Paris, France.
Dr C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E. Zurich, Switzerland.
Count Carl von Klinckowstroem, Agnesstrasse 44/°, Munich, Germany.
119] Members and Associates. 421
Maurice Maeterlinck, Villa des Abeilles, Nice, France.
Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Nauklerstrasse 23, Tubingen, Germany.
Dr Eugene Osty, Avenue Niel 89, Paris, France.
Dr Walter F. Prince, 346 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Charles Richet, rue de TUmversite 15, Paris, France.
Dr Rudolf Tischner, Ditlindenstrasse 18, Munich, Germany.
Carl Vett.
Honorary Associates.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex.
Eeden, Frederik van, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 63 Newbridge Road, Bath.
Gow, David, 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Grubb, Edward, 9 Sollershott West, Letchworth, Herts.
Hill, J. Arthur, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., Dyke End, Rotherfield, Sussex.
Sage, Prof. Charles M., rue de Coulmiers 33, Paris XIV°, France.
Stawell, Miss F. Melian, 39 Arundel Gardens, London, W. 11.
Tanagra, Dr A., Odos Aristotelous 53, Athens, Greece.
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
Abernethy, Mrs, 4 Branksome Gate, Bournemouth.
Acland-Hood, Lady Helena, 41 Cadogan Street, London, S.W. 3.
Adamson, T.
*Adlercron, Mrs Rodolph, Culverthorpe Hall, Grantham.
Agelasto, Michael A., 4-C, Hague Apt., 606 Fairfax Avenue, Norfolk,
Va., U.S.A.
Aglen, Sir Francis.
*Albemarle, Countess of, Quidenham, Norwich.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., 24 Brunswick Road, Withiugton, Manchester.
Allan, Miss J., Invergloy House, Invergloy, Inverness-shire.
*Allen, Professor H. J., c/o The National Bank of India, 26 Bishopsgate,
London, E.G. 2.
^Allison, Mrs E. W., The Beverley, 125 East 50th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
*Alvarez, Dr Juan, 25 de Diciembre, 804, Rosario, Argentina.
*Anderson, Lady, Ballydavid, Woodstown, Waterford, I.F.S.
Anderson, Mrs, Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Mrs Henry C, 20 Hermitage Drive, Edinburgh.
*Andreae, Frau Edith, Cronbergerstrasse 7-9, Beiiiu-Griinewald,
Germany.
Andrews, Dr Marion B., 73 Shrubbery Avenue, Worcester.
Anstey, Lieut. -Colonel E. C, R.A., Naval and Military Club, 94
Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Archer-Hind, Mrs, Little Newnham, Cambridge.
*Armitage, Miss D. M., Pennyfathers, Harmer Green, Welwyn, Herts.
422 Members and Associates. [past
Armstrong, Charles W., Mensajeros, Calle Fontenella, 10 y Estruch
38, Barcelona, Spain.
*Asslieton-Snutli, Lady, 30 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
*Auden, Harold A., The Research Institute, Great Burgh, Epsom,
Surrey.
Austen, H. W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Loudon, W. 5.
Bacon, Mrs Sewell, Gate House, Northwood, Middlesex.
*Baggally, Mrs W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baikie, W. S., Redroof, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
*Baker, Miss Mabel, P.O., All Saints, Idutywa, CP., S. Africa.
*Baldwin, Mrs, 1 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
*Balfour, Miss, Whittingehame, Haddington.
*Balfour, The Lady Ruth, Balbirnie, Markinch, Fife.
*Balfour, Right Hon. the Earl of, P.C., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking,
Surrey.
*Barber, Stanley S., Greengates, Little Marlow, Bucks.
Barkworth, Mrs, Empress Club, 35 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Barlow, Fred, 105 Springfield Road, Moseley, Birmingham.
*Barlow, James Arthur, The Old Court House, The Green, Richmond,
Surrey.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Barrow, J. R., c/o Grindlay and Co., 54 Parliament Street, London,
S.W.I.
*Bartlett, A. F., 1030 Euclid Avenue, St Petersburg, Florida, U.S.A.
Baruch, E., 1015 Lincoln Building, Los Angeles, CaL, U.S.A.
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S., c/o Lloyds Bank, 6 Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Battersea, The Lady, The Pleasaunce, Overstrand, Cromer, Norfolk.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1724 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Bax, Clifford, 72 Addison Road, London, W. 14.
*Beadon, Mrs, 11 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton.
*Beaty, Amos L., 17 Battery Place, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
*Bedwell, C. E. A., 5 De Crespigny Park, London, S.E. 5.
*Behrens, Major Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward.
^Benedict, Professor H. Y., 216 West 27th Street, Austin, Texas, U.S.A.
Bennett, Colin N., 21 Morrab Place, Penzance, Cornwall.
*Bennett, Sir Ernest N., M.P., 12 Prince Arthur Road, London, N.W. 3.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., 32 Wood Lane, London, N. 6.
*Benson, E. F., 25 Brompton Square, London, S.W. 3.
*Bentley, W. P., 4214 Swiss Avenue, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
*Berkeley, R. F., 127 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, CaL, U.S.A.
*Berry, Lady Dickinson, M.D., Bramblebury, Dunsmore, nr Wendover,
Bucks.
*Besterman, Theodore, 47 Great Ormond Street, London, W.C. 1.
*Besterman, Mrs Theodore, 47 Great Ormond Street, London, W.C. 1.
Bevan, Mrs Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
119] Members and Associates. 423
*Birkbeck, Mrs Edward, Elmham House, Norfolk.
Blacklock, Miss C, Lewie, Ditchling, Hassocks, Sussex.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
*Blennerhassett, Mrs Eichard, 52 Hans Place, London, S.W. 1.
Bligh, Stanley M., 19 Clareville Grove, London, S.W. 7.
*Bois, H. G., Billesley Manor, Alcester, Warwickshire.
*Bolton, Edward J., Rossett Hall, nr Wrexham.
*Bond, F. Bligh, 15 Lexington Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Bond, Mrs W. C, Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
*Bonus, A. R., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 38 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
*Bousfield, W. R., K.C., F.R.S., St Swithins, Norfchwood, Middlesex.
Bouwens, B. G., Old Manor House, Littleton, Shepperton, Middlesex.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, Hotel Richmond, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Earlham House, Norwich.
Boxer, Miss Cecile F., Firwood, Alum Chine, Bournemouth.
Boxer, Major H. C, Firwood, Alum Chine, Bournemouth.
*Bracht, Federico, Cangallo 466, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
*Brackenbury, Mrs, 39 Upper Marylebone Street, London, W. 1.
*Bradley, Miss A. A., Bradley Hill, Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 36 Fenchurch Street, London, B.C. 3.
Bray, F. E., Netley Park, Gomshall, Guildford, Surrey.
*Braye, Lady, Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
*Bret, Dr P. T., 23 Avenida Cinco de Outubro, Lisbon, PortugaL
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, London, W. 5.
*Brinton, R. S., Croft House, Kidderminster.
Bristowe, The Hon. L. S., Mahogany Hall, Chipperfield, Herts.
*Broad, C. D., Litt.D., Trinity College, Cambridge.
*Broch, Dr Leon, 76 Cuba Street, Habana, Cuba.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devon.
Brown, A. D. Burnett, M.C., Verdley, Burke's Road, Beaconsfield,
Bucks.
*Brown, Miss A. M., Trecarrel, Parry's Lane, Bristol.
*Brown, B. G., 16 Brookside, Cambridge.
*Brown, B. H. Inness, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Brown, Charles, M.B., Tinto Bank, Kirkcaldy.
*Brown, Guy B., Moorlands, Neva Road, Weston-super-Mare.
*Brown, William, M.A., M.D., D.Sc, F.R.C.P., 88 Harley Street,
London, W. 1.
^Browne, 0. H., 216 Gymkhana Road, Secunderabad, Deccan, India.
*Bulford, Staveley, 20 Baton Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,
Canada.
*Bulley, Mrs Arthur, Ness, Neston, Wirral, Cheshire.
Burnham, Mrs.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Burrard, Mrs Charles, c/o Lloyds Bank, Knightsbridge Branch,
Brompton Road, London, S.W. 1.
*Burt, Mrs William G., 1501 Asbury Avenue, Bvanston, 111., U.S.A.
Burton, Mrs. Harry, 25 via dei Bardi, Florence, Italy.
424 Members and Associates. [part
*Bury, Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Bury, Mrs Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Butier, Mrs Charles, Evendale, Falmouth, Cornwall.
*Butt, Lady, c/o Midland Bank, Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., 9 Huskisson Street, Liverpool.
Cadell, Mrs Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Caird, Mrs Henryson, 34 Woronzow Road, London, N.V/. 8.
Cairns, Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
*Campbell, Mrs, Arduaine, Lochgilphead.
Campbell, Colin E., 9 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Campbell, Mrs E. Kenneth, Millfield, Wittersham, Kent.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., 75 Marine Parade, Brighton, Sussex.
*Campbell-Lang, Miss, Craig Lora, Connell, Argyllshire.
Candler, H. A. W., 43 Gondar Gardens, London, N.W. 6.
Candler, Miss M. L, Shadipore, Aldeburgh, Suffolk.
*Carden, W. A., M.R.C.S., Korea, Trappes Street, Worcester, CP.,
S. Africa.
^Carpenter, Mrs, Withleigh, West Heath Road, London, N.W. 3.
Carrington, Hereward, Ph.D., 504 West 111th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Carruthers, Miss Helen, 10 King's Bench Walk, London, E.C. 4.
*Carruthers, K. St C, c/o National Provincial Bank, Warwick.
*Carter, Mrs H. A., Mena House, St Erth, Hayle, Cornwall.
*Carthew, Lieut. -Colonel T., D.S.O., 2 Mitre Court Buildings, London,
B.C. 4.
Case, Miss A. J.
*Cave, Charles J. P., Stoner Hill, Petersfield, Hants.
^Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
-Champion de Crespigny, Mrs Philip, Artillery Mansions, London, S.W.l
*Chance, Lady, Legh Manor, Cuckfield, Sussex.
*Chant, Stephen, Spring Cottage, Sanderstead, Surrey.
*Chapman, C. F., Downs House, Dukes Drive, Eastbourne, Sussex.
*Chattock, Arthur P., D.Sc, F.R.S., 5 Windsor Terrace, Clifton,
Bristol.
*Cheatham, Rev. Thaddeus A., Pinehurst, North Carolina, U.S.A.
*Chichester, Countess of, Stanmer, Lewes, Sussex.
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H., Orchard Cottage, Kinlet, Bewdley.
Chitty, Hubert, M.S., F.R.C.S., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton, Bristol.
Chubb, The Hon. Mrs Archibald, Lethbridge, The Drive, London,
S.W. 19.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
*Clark, Captain C. C, Kilrie, North Berwick.
Clark, Rev. F. H. H., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, The Ship Hotel, Crediton, Devon.
Clarkson, Mrs St John, 27 Ovington Street, London, S.W. 3.
Clay, The Hon. Mrs, 11 Tite Street, London, S.W. 3.
^Clements, P. H., 26 St Andrews Road, Earlsdon, Coventry,
elements, Mrs P. H., 26 St Andrews Road, Earlsdon, Coventry.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 206 The Shawmut, 2200 Nineteenth Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
119] Members and Associates. 425
*Clwyd, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., Leenane, Co. Galway, I.F.S.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
*Collins, George E., 4 Hawthorn Avenue, Wilmslow, Manchester.
Collins, Miss M.
*Constable, F. C, Grenville, Lansdown, Bath.
Conway, Lady, 47 Romney Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Conybeare, Mrs F. C, United Berkeley Club, 247 Knightsbridge,
London, S.W. L
Cooper, Rev. Canon F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Mrs P. H., 293 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
'
Cornford, Rev. Bruce, 43 Havelock Road, Portsmouth.
Cornish, J. Easton, The Water Co., Alexandria, Egypt.
*Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, London, W. 8.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Minister of State, 59 Koninginnegracht,
The Hague, Holland.
*Costopulo, Panos J., c/o Credit Commercial Hellenique, Calamata,
Greece.
*Cox, Lady, Lazytown Cottage, Fawley, Southampton.
Coxe, Henry R. H., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Crandon, L. R. G., M.D., 366 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Creasy, Mrs L., 15 Drayton Gardens, London, S.V/. 10.
*Critchley, Macdonald, M.D., F.R.C.P., 137 Harley Street, London,
W. 1.
*Cromer, Katharine, Countess of, 29 Marlborough Place, London,
N.W. 8.
Crook, A. H., 156, The Peak, Hong Kong.
*Crosfield, Miss M. C, Greensand, 78 Doods Road, Reigate, Surrey.
Crouch, H. N., Castelnau, 37 Lancaster Road, London, S.W. 19.
*Currie, Lady, Upham House, Aldbourne, Wilts.
*Currie, Mrs Algernon, Ultima, Bulkington Avenue, Worthing, Sussex.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 53 Romney Street, London, S.W. 1.
Daniell, Mrs Averell.
D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
*Davidson, Miss A. M. Campbell, Villa Mont Jean, Cavalaire (Var),
t France.
*Davies, Benjamin, Ty Tringad, Penparke, Aberystwyth, Cardiganshire.
*Davies, Powys, 9 Lansdowne Road, Bedford.
*Davison, Miss R., Branton, Bollin Hill, Wilmslow, Manchester.
Davys, Lieut.-Colonel G. I., O.B.E., I.M.S., c/o Messrs Grindlay &
Co., 54 Parliament Street, London, S.W. 1.
Day, Miss Mabel K., 15 Elgin Court, London, W. 9.
Dearmer, Rev. Dr Percy, 9 Embankment Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*De Brath, S., 13 High Park Gardens, Kew, Surrey.
De Jong. Dr K. H. E., Beeklaar, 356, The Hague, Holland.
*De Koven, Mrs Anna F., 1025 Park Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Deland, Mrs Lorin F., Kennebunkport, Maine, U.S.A.
De Traiford, Mrs Galfrid.
426 Members and Associates. [part
*Dewar, Lady, The Capite, West Grinstead, Sussex.
*Dewey, Rev. Sir Stanley D., Bart., Peak House, Sidmouth, Devon.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, Arlena Towers, Ramsey, N.J., U.S.A.
*de Zoysa Wickramasahie, G. A.
*Dick, Mrs. W., Westhaven, Castlehill Road, Knock, Belfast.
*Dick, Lieut.-Colonel Maxwell, M.B., B.S., LL.B., 24 Riverview
Gardens, London, S.W. 13.
Dickie, H. Blford, 16 Quai Duquay Troins, Nantes Loire Inferieure,
Prance.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., Stolarska Skola, Travnik, Bosnia, Yugoslavia.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
*Dickson, B. W. A., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
*Dickson, Mrs B. W. A., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
*Dingwall, E. J., Ph.D., 14 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
*Dingwall, Mrs E. J., 14 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
*Dixon, Edward T.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
*Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park Terrace,
Hillhead, Glasgow.
Doane, Mrs W. E., Burlington, New Jersey, U.S.A.
*Dodds, Professor E. R., 6 Sir Harry's Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Doe, George M., Enfield, Great Torrington, N. Devon.
*Donald, Mrs, AUandale, Creek Road, East Molesey, Surrey.
Donne, Mrs, c/o Messrs Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London, S.W. 1.
*Dowdall, Hon. Mrs, Melfort Cottage, Boar's Hill, Oxford.
Dowson, Mrs, Landhurst Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
Drew, Ringrose C, Kota Bharu, Kelantan, via Penang, Federated
Malay States.
Driesch, Profes.sor Dr Hans, Zollnerstrasse 1, Leipzig, Germany.
*Duckworth, G. A. V., Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Duff, The Lady Juliet, Coombe Court, Kingston Hill, Surrey.
*Duff, J. R. K., 100 Sunningflelds, London, N.W. 4.
*Dufiield, Mrs W. Geoffrey, Observatory House, Mt Strombo, Canberra,
Australia.
*Duncan, Mrs, Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunne, D. P., 137 Victoria Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
*Earl, Dr C. J. C, Tooting Bee Hospital, London, S.W. 17.
*Barle, Arthur B., Puddington, Wirral, Cheshire.
*Eckstein, Lady, 18 Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Edie, H. S. Ker, Longmead, Swaythling Lawn, Southampton.
*Editor, L^ice e Ombra, Via Carducci 4, Rome, Italy.
*Elder, Frederick, 21 Essex Villas, London, W. 8.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, London, S.E. 1.
Elliot, Mrs Gilbert, 10 Regent's Park Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, London, W. 3.
*Engelbregt, P. A. L., Flatgebouw Zorgvliet, Gogelweg 1, The Hague,
Holland.
119] Members and Associates. 427
*Enthoven, Mrs F. V., 44 Carlton Hill, London, N.W. 8.
*Evans, Miss Joan, 9 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W. 11.
*Evelyn, C. J. A., Wotton House, Dorking, Surrey.
*Ezra, Alwyn, 143 Esplanade Road, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Farone, Mrs, 56 Redcliffe Square, London, S.W. io. i
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Farrer, H. M., 81 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W. 1.
*Faustinus, F., Sondre Fasanvej 97", Valby, Copenhagen, Denmark.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, bn Montagu Mansions, London, W. 1.
Felkin, Mrs, 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
Ferenczi, Dr S., Nagy diofalltca 3, Budapest VII, Hungary.
*Fermor-Hesketh, Sir Thomas, Bart., Easton Neston, Towcester,
Northamptonshire.
*Fernald, Chester Bailey, c/o Brown, Shipley and Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.I.
*Fernald, Mrs C. B., c/o Brown, Shipley and Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London S.W.I.
*Few, Mrs, Coneyhurst-on-the-Hill, Ewhurst, Surrey.
*Findlater, J. W., Aydon, Cutenhoe Road, Luton, IBeds.
*Findlay, J. Arthur, Stansted Hall, Stansted, Essex.
*Fisk, George W., Wellclose House, Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts.
*Fitch, Hugh B., 31 Campden Grove, London, W. 8.
*Flagg, Don Perley, M.D., 3102 La Salle Avenue, Los Angeles, Cal.,
U.S.A.
*Fleetwood-Hesketh, Major C. H., Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham,
Rutlandshire.
*Fleming, Miss A. E., 3 Crossfield Road, London, N.W. 3.
*Fletcher, L. S., 3 Dr Johnson's Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
Flugel, J. C, 11 Albert Road, London, N.W. 1.
*Fonnereau, N. C, 7 Trafalgar Square, London, S.W. 3.
*Foot, Miss Katharine, 31 Brookfield Mansions, London, N. 6.
Footner, Mrs, 187 Ebury Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Forman, Josef, c/o Credit Commercial de France, 103 Avenue des
Champs Blysees, Paris, France.
*Forrest, Mrs L. W. R., Holkham, Wimbledon Common, London, S.W. 19.
*Foy, H. W., Caixa 3005, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
*Francis, Mrs Francis.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. ]
.
*Freeman, Rev. Canon, Bentley, Clifton Hill, Bristol.
*Frith, Mrs, 19 Philbeach Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Frostick, J. A., C.B.E., 381 Papanui Road, Christchurch, New Zealand.
*Fry, Miss Agnes, Kilne Court, Bridgwater, Somerset.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Gantz, Mrs, 25 Cheyne Row, London, S.W. 3.
*Gaskell, Mrs J. B., 15 Melbury Road, London, W. 14.
*Gatliff, H. B. C, Treasury Chambers, Whitehall, London, S.W.I.
Gay, The Hon. Mrs C. H., Higham Hall, nr Rochester, Kent.
Gellert, J. W., 38-40 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
*Gibbes, Miss B. B., 25 Jubilee Place, London, S.W. 3. •
•
428 Members and Associates. [part
*Giglio, E., 115 Old Broad Street, London, E.G. 2.
*Giles, B. v., Stinchcombe Hill House, Dursley, Glos.
Giles, Mrs, 19 Highfield Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Gibson, R. Gary, Quilters, West Chiltington Common, by Pulborough,
Sussex.
*Girdlestone, Mrs Frank, Three Corners, Forest Ridge, Keston, Kent.
Glasson, J. W., I.C.S., Glanusk, Soy, Kenya Colony.
*Glover, Captain A. C, College Arms Hotel, Hertford Heath, Herts.
Glover, Cedric H., 35 Albert Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Godsal, W. C, Haines Hill, Twyford, Berks.
*Goldney, Mrs A. Peel, Kenilworth House, Baton Road, Hove,
Sussex.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs Beni de. Lane End, Burchetts Green, Berks.
Gooch, G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W. 8.
*Goodden, Mrs Robert, 5 Kingsg9.te Street, Winchester.
*Goossens, Mrs F. W., 101 St Luke's Street, Montreal, Canada.
*Gordon-Tucker, Lieut.-Colonel E. F., M.B., 6 Staverton Road, Oxford.
Gough, A.B., Ph.D., Red Gables, Woodland Rise, Sevenoaks, Kent.
*Gover, J. M., K.C., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C. 2.
Graham, J. W., 149 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Grahame, Miss Helen, 8 Queensborough Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Grant-Suttie, Major H. F., A.G.6, War Office, London.
Green, Mrs Alan B., Acton Castle, Marazion, Cornwall.
*Greenwood, L. H. G., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Grew, J. C, Dept. of State, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
^Griffith, Mrs, 19 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
Grignon, Miss A. B., 41 Filton Avenue, Horfield, Bristol.
*Grinling, Mrs A. G., Oak Lodge, The Bishops Avenue, London, N. 2.
*Grinling, D. G., Oak Lodge, The Bishops Avenue, London, N. 2.
^Grisman, Instructor-Commander J. R., R.N., Royal Naval College,
Greenwich, London, S.B. 10.
Grottendieck, W. G., rue de Tlntendant 193, Brussels-Molenbeck,
Belgium.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., 22 Park Lane, Southwold, Sufiolk.
*Grugeon, C. L., The Chestnuts, Henley-on-Thames.
*Grundy, Professor W. W., Lerryn, Rhiwbina, nr Cardiff.
•^Gunston, Mrs Derrick.
*Gurdon, John.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
-
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, 10 Preonath Banerji Street, Calcutta,
India.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
*Hall-Smith, H., 5 Bakewell Road, Eastbourne. _ .
Hambro, Lady, 4 Norfolk Street, London, W. 1.
^Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, 25 St Edmund's Terrace,
London, N.W. 8. . ...
Hamilton, J. J.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland, Oregon,
U.S.A.
119] Members and Associates. 429
*Hanbury, D., Castle Malwood, Lyndhurst, Hants.
*Handley-Seymour, Major J. B., 1 Wadham Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
*Hannen, Mrs B., Great Surries, East Grinstead, Sussex. .
.
*Hare, Dr A. W., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
*Hargreaves, J. N. D., 78 Buckingliani Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Harriman, T. G., M.D., 37 68 American Avenue, Long Beach, Cal., U.S.A.
*Harrington, B. J., Greensand, Heath Road, Petersiield, Hants.
I Harris, Alan C, c/o Messrs Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place Vendome,
Paris, France.
Harris, Mrs W. F., The Willows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
Harrison, William, Shots Mead, Sandlands Grove, Walton-on-the-
Hill.
Hart, Mrs H. H., Belstone, Grange Park, London, N. 2L
Hart, General Sir Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O., 39 West
Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
Harvey, G. H., P.O. Box 254, Quebec, Canada.
*HasIam, Oliver H., Cairngill, nr Dalbeattie, Kirkcudbrightshire.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancashire.
*Hawkins, J. Gordon, 975 Sutter Street, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
*Hayes, Rev. J. W., Towerville, The Crescent, Loughton, Essex.
*Hayley, Guy W., Gravenhurst, Bolney, Sussex.
*Head, Mrs Geoffrey, 24 Charles Street, London, W. 1.
Heaton, Guy, 51 Westciiff Road, Bournemouth.
Heller, Rabbi James G., Isaac M. Wise Centre, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Hemenway, Mrs Augustus, Readville, Mass., U.S.A.
^Henderson, Miss Hester M., M.B., 25 Ferndale, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Henderson, J. J., Parkfield Cottage, Scone, Perth.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 49 Grosvenor Street,
London, W. 1.
Henrici, Max, Box 187, Coraopolis, Pa., U.S.A.
*Herrmann, Oscar, c/o American Express Co., rue Scribe, Paris, France.
*Hervey, H. L., 74 Hova Villas, Hove, Sussex.
*Hettinger, John, Broseley, 63 Drewstead Road, London, S.W. 16.
*Hichens, Mrs Cyril, The Almners, Lyne, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Hichens, Mrs W. Lionel, 15 Buckingham Palace Gardens, London,
S.W. 1.
*Hicks, Rev. F. E., St Peter's Vicarage, Rock Ferry, Cheshire.
*Hierneiss, Dr C. T. H., 1-4 Gt Tower Street, London, E.C. 3.
Hildyard, F. W., 14 Lambridge, Bath.
*Hill, Mrs C. A., 30 Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
*Hill, Miss Marianne, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford, Yorks.
Hillman, E. Haviland.
Hoare, Fred H., 37 Fleet Street, London, E.C. 4.
*Hockliffe, Mrs Ernest, Barrow Court Farm, Tickenham, Nailsea,
Somerset.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, The University of the Witwatersrand,
Johannesburg, S. Africa.
Holder, Henry L., Monkbarns, Wheatlands Road, Harrogate.
*Holdsworth, H. H., Amberd, Blenheim Road, Wakefield, Yorks.
*Hole, Rev. Donald, St James's Lodge, London, S.W. 6.
430 Members and Associates. [part
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
*Hollick, Captain A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
*Hollick, Mrs A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
Hollins, Mrs A. E., Dunsfold Rectory, Godalming, Surrey.
*Holt, Miss M. D., Little Bryan's Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Homan, C. H., Avenyen 3, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Home, Miss Georgina, St Peter's Vicarage, Elgin Avenue, London, W. 9.
Home, Miss Mary M.
*Hood, Miss P.
Hookham, Philip, Sliottery Cottage, Shottery, Stratford-on-Avon.
*Hope, Lord Charles M., Swinley Hurst, Ascot, Berks.
Hopkinson, Mrs, Ellerslie, Adams Road, Cambridge.
*Hoppe-Moser, Dr Fanny, Franz Josefstr. 19, Munich, Bavaria.
*Horsfield, H., 108 Everton Road, Chorlton-on-Medlock, Manchester.
*Hoseason, A. G., The Bungalow, Tanworth-in-Arden, nr Birmingham.
Hotblack, Frank A., Great Frenches Park, Crawley Down, Sussex.
Howden, Mrs, 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
*Howell, Mrs Philip, 5 Carlyle Square, London, S.W. 3.
Howgrave-Graham, Captain A., Randfontein, Transvaal, S. Africa.
Hudson, Miss Katie E., Tanglewood, Chalford, Glos.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., Mendip House, Headington Hill, Oxford.
*Humphreys, E. Noel, Y Fron, Gogarth, Llandudno.
Humphreys, T. H. A., Boulac, Dacroor, Egypt.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St Albans, Herts.
*Huxley, Professor Julian S., King's College, London, W.C. 2.
*Hyland, C. W., Ph.C, 300 Commissioner Street, Johannesburg East,
Transvaal, S. Africa.
*Hyslop, George H., M.D., 3447 80th Street, Jackson Heights, Long
Island, New York, U.S.A.
Imamura, Prof. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial University,
Kioto, Japan.
*Ingrams, William H., Junior Army and Navy Club, Horse Guards
Avenue, London, S.W. 1.
*Innes, Lady Rose, Kolara, Gibson Road, Kenilworth, Cape, S. Africa.
*Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, Glos.
Jacks, L. P., LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
*James, Lieut. -Colonel E. A. H., R.E., 1 Haig Road West, Catterick
Camp, Richmond, Yorks.
*James, Miss S. Boucher, 2 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. 1.
^Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, B. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Jaschke, W. K., Ebing b/ Bamberg, Bayern, Germany.
Jaye, William R., Beldornie Tower, Pelham Field, Ryde, I.W.
Jeboult, F. M., 9 Walbrook, London, E.G. 4.
*Jenkins, Mrs N. S., Battle Road, Princeton, N.J., U.S.A.
Jenkinson, W. E., Willow Hall, Sowerby Bridge, Yorks.
*Jephson, Miss Ina, Ladyoak, Flimwell, Kent.
*Jeschke, Harry Jewett, Sunset Blufi, North Shore Drive, Benton
Harbor, Michigan, U.S.A.
119] Members mid Associates. 431
*Joekes, Dr Theodore, 86 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
Johnson, Charles E., 3 Norwood Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnson, Miss F. C, 25 York Street Chambers, London, W. 1.
*Johnson, James MacNeill, Aberdeen, North Carolina, U.S.A.
*Johnston, Sir Keginald F., C.M.G., C.B.E., K.C.M.G., 4 Eversfield Road,
Richmond, Surrey.
*Johnston, Dr William B., Giverny, par Vernon, Eure, France.
*Johnston, Mrs W. B., Giverny, par Vernon, Eure, France.
*Jones, Professor B. Melvill, Engineering Laboratory, Cambridge.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
*Jones, Lady, 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Jones, Lawrence E., 15 Cleveland Gardens, London, W. 2.
*Jordan-Smith, B., Orchardlea, Grosvenor Road, Caversham, Reading.
*Judah, Noble B.
Judd, Mrs Sylvestre Dwight, 16 Bloomfield Street, Lexington, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Kahn, Albert, 102 Rue de Richelieu, Paris, France.
*Kakucs, Baroness de, United Berkeley Club, 247 Knightsbridge,
London, S.W. 1.
*Kellett, Mrs Kelsall, Hurst, Burwash, Sussex.
*Kellogg, Mrs Branton, 45 Carlton Street, Brookline, Mass., LT.S.A.
*Kellogg, F. R., 120 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Kelly, Miss Eleanor B., Kebars, The Lookout, Peacehaven, Sussex.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, I.F.S.
Kershaw, Mrs Ronald H., Seacourt, Hayling Island, Hants.
*King, Dame E. Locke, Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey.
*Kinglake, Mrs, Moushill Manor, Milford, Surrey.
*Kingsley, Mrs, 42 Oakwood Road, London, N.W. 11.
Kingston, Miss Gertrude, 73 Marsham Street, London, S.W. 1.
Kittermaster, Rev. Digby B., Dame Armstrong House, Harrow-on-the-
Hill, Middlesex.
Knight, Charles N., 7 Marlborough Buildings, Bath.
*Konig, Mrs F. A., 44 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
*Laine, Rev. E. R., Jr., St Paul's Rectory, Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Laing, R. M., " Ogilvie," 37 MacMillan Avenue, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, D.Sc, 65 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
*Lambert, G. W., 64 Onslow Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Lambert, Mrs Helen C, 270 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Lambert, Rudolf, Haigst 42, Degerloch bei Stuttgart, Germany.
*Langford, J. C. C, M.R.C.S., Cambridge Villa, Cambridge Road,
London, W. 4.
Latshaw, Allen, Berwyn, Penn, U.S.A.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Mrs A. H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss B. M., Leafield, Augustus Road, London, S.W. 19.
*Leaf, F. A., Lincoln House, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
^Leaning, Mrs S., Elmstead, Epsom Lane, Tadworth, Surrey.
*Le-Apsley, James H. M., M.D., 70 N. Judd Street, Honolulu, T.H.
432 Members and Associates. [part
*Leconfield, The Lady, Petworth House, Petworth, Sussex.
Ledyard, Mrs E. F. H., Owl's Nest, Lakeland Farms, Cazenovia,
U.S.A.
Lee, Blewett, 1215 Fifth Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Lee, Dr H. D. C, 32 New North Road, Huddersfield, Yorks.
*Lees, Norman D., A.I.C., Norton Hall, Norton-on-Tees, Co. Durham.
*Legg, W. A., 14 Victoria Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
*Le Lacheur, Mrs, Clare Lodge, 17 Fitzalan Road, Littlehampton,
Sussex.
Lenon, J. W., Wellington Club, Grosvenor Place, London, S.W. 1.
Leon, Mrs Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, London, W. 1.
*Leouard, Miss Margaret, Oakley House, Bromley Common, Kent.
Le Patourel, Miss M. L., 28 Stanhope Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Leslie, Rev. G. Lindsay, The Manse, Eddleston, Peeblesshire.
*Lester, Mrs M. C, Keynes Place, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
*Lester, Mrs, Whalebone House, High Road, Chadwell Heath, Essex.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., St John's Parsonage, Keswick.
*Lewis, David J., 10 South Center St. Cumberland, Maryland, U.S.A.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
Librarian, Public Library, Adelaide, S. Australia.
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, N.Y., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Studievereeniging voor " Psychical Research," Universi-
teits-Bibliotheek, Amsterdam, Holland.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library, Baltimore, Md., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Prussian State Library, Berlin, Germany.
Librarian, Public Libraries, Birmingham. . .
:
'''Librarian, The University, Birmingham.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Bombay, India.
Librarian, Boston Athenaeum, Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Brighton.
*Librarian, The University, Bristol.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Grosvenor Library, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Imperial Library, Calcutta, India.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, John Crerar Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, 5707 Woodlawn Avenue,
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, The University of Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Public Library, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Selskabet for Psykisk Forskning, Graabrodretorv 11, Copen-
hagen K., Denmark.
*Librarian, Iowa State Library, Des Moines, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, 102 Bath Street,
Glasgow.
Librarian, The University, Glasgow. .
,
119] Members and Associates. 433
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Haverford College Library, Haverford, Pa., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Sanatana Dharma College, Lahore, India.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Leeds.
Librarian, Hon., Constitutional Club, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, Dr Williams's Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C. 2.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 46 Lancaster Gate, London, W. 2.
*Librarian, Public Library, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
^Librarian, John Rylands Library, Manchester.
Librarian, Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, The University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
^Librarian, Bavarian State Library, Munich, Germany.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Yale University, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, New York, U.S.A.
*Librarian, General Theological Seminary, Chelsea Square, New York,
U.S.A.
^Librarian, Public Library, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Portland Library Association, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Norsk Selskap for Psykisk Forskning, Parkveien 49, Oslo,
Norway.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, Cal., U.S.A.
Librarian, The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Natal Society, Pietermaritzburg, Natal, S. Africa.
*Librarian, The University, Reykjavik, Iceland.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, P.ochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library Association, St Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
*Librarian, James Jerome Hill Reference Library, St Paul, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
^Librarian, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Penn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
Librarian, The University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
*Librarian, Legislative Library, Toronto, Canada.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Periodicals Division, Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
*Llewellin, Mrs W., Upton House, nr Poole, Dorset.
*Lloyd, Miss Edyth M., 27 Coleherne Court, London, S.W. 5.
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Hillside, Balsall-Common, nr Coventry.
*Lloyd-Jones, Mrs, 104 Draycott Avenue, Kenton, Middlesex.
Lodge, Miss E. C, Westfield College, London, N.W. 3.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, nr Salisbury.
Lubbock, Mrs Geoffrey, Glenconner, North Berwick.
Lunn, Arnold.
434 Members and Associates. [part
Lyon, Mrs, 49 Holland Park, London, W. IL
*Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs Alfred, G.B.E., 18 Great College Street, London,
S.W. 1.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, London, W. 1.
*MacDonell, Mrs.
*Machin, Mrs H. A. C, Kenora, Ontario, Canada.
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perth.
*Mackeson, Mrs Peyton, 1 Eldon Road, London, W. 8.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W. 2.
Madders, Mrs H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
*Magrane, Mrs Victor, 11 Grand Parade, Portsmouth.
*Mahony-Jones, Mrs, M.B., 1 Culverden Gardens, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
*Mallet, E. Hugo, 14 St James's Square, Bath.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
*Manning, Miss H. T., 102 Central Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Derwentwater, Claremont, Tasmania.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., 10 Sion Hill, Bath.
*Marsden-Smedley, Mrs, Lea Green, Matlock, Derbyshire.
Marston, Sir Charles, 4 Camden Park, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Marten, Miss A. R., Osbornes, Liphook, Hants.
*Marten, Rev. Canon G. H., St. Mark's Vicarage, Surbiton, Surrey.
*Marten, Mrs Humphrey, Artillery Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Mason, Miss, 211 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., LLS.A.
Mason, Miss M. H., 5 Vincent Square Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Maxwell, Dr Joseph, 37 rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., Pollok House, Pollokshaws.
Mayor, R. G., 36 Campden Hill Gardens, London, W. 8.
McAlpine, Sir Robert, Knott Park, Oxshott, Surrey.
*McCombe, John, M.D., St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada.
McConnel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
McConnel, Mrs H. W., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
*McDougall, Miss C. J., Appleton-le-Moors, York.
McDougall, William, F.R.S., D.Sc, M.B., Duke University, Durham,
N. Carolina, U.S.A.
McGusty, G. A., Eildon, Lansdown Road, Cheltenham.
McKeever, Buell, The Chicago Club, Michigan Ave. and Van Buren
Street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*McLagan, P. W., 4378 Western Avenue, Westmount, Quebec, Canada.
McLauchlan, G. M., c/o Dr J. J., Dunne, Port Alfred, Cape Province,
S. Africa.
Mead, G. R. S., 21 Ovington Street, London, S.W. 3.
Meek, Maximilian de, 27 Boulevard de Cessole, Nice, France.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg, Germany.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 49 Church Gate Street, Bombay,
India.
*Mellor, Philip S., Rehemet Manor, Warden Road, Bombay, India.
Merryweather, Mrs J. H., Sarras, Hulham, Bxmouth.
119] Members and Associates. 435
*Michaelis, Miss M., Crendon, Peaslake, Surrey.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
*Millar, G. R. M., c/o Barclays Bank, 5 Half Moon Lane, London,
S.E. 24.
*Millard, Mrs Almira B., c/o The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Mills, J. P., LC.S., c/o King, Hamilton & Co., 4 and 5 Koila Ghat
Street, Calcutta, India.
*Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr Tonbridge, Kent.
*Moncrieff, Captain M. M., The Cliffs, Nelson, New Zealand.
*Montague, Mrs, Penton, Crediton, Devon.
*Montaner, Sebastian, Calle de Sarria 74, Barcelona, Spain.
Monypenny, Mrs A. E. G., 20 Palace Court, London, W. 2
*Moore, His Honour Judge R. E., Eliot Vale House, London, S.E. 3.
Morris, Mrs E. R., Corner House, Laleham-on-Thames, Middlesex.
*Moss, C. A., 18 Clarendon Gardens, London, W. 9.
*Mounsey-Wood, Mrs, 41a Golders Way, London, N.W. IL
*Muir, Mrs W. E., Rowallan, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Mullens, Lady, 6 Belgrave Square, London, S.W. I.
*Mullins, Colonel W. B., Ambersham House, Midhurst, Sussex.
*Mulroney, John B., 215 South 7th Street, Fort Dodge, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Murphy, Professor Gardner, Ph.D., Columbia University, N.Y., U.S.A.
Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
*Murrell, A. W., 7 Lawford Road, London, W. 4.
Murrell, Mrs. A. W., 7 Lawford Road, London, W. 4.
*Musgrave, Geoffrey, Selukwe, S. Rhodesia, S. Africa.
*Myers, Mrs F. W. H., 12 Cleveland Row, St James's, London,
S.W. 1.
*Myers, Harold H., Ovington House, Ovington Square, London, S.W. 3.
*Myers, L. H., Twyford Lodge, East Grinstead, Sussex.
*Nash, Miss Diana, Point of Pines, Tryon, N. Carolina, U.S.A.
*Nation, Major C. F., R.E., Abbassia, Cairo, Egypt.
Neustadter, Louis W., 6845 Odin Street, Hollywood, Cal., U.S.A.
Newton, Miss F. E.
*Newton, Miss I., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
*Nicholl, Iltyd B., Wellington Club, 1 Grosvenor Place, London, S.W. 1.
*Nicoll, Mrs De Lancey.
*Nicolls, Brig-General B. G., C.B., Fir View, 13 Culverden Park Road,
Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
*Nisbet, E. T., Birnieknowes, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
*North, Sidney V., Ousedale House, nr Lewes, Sussex.
*Northcote, Rev. H., 46 Augusta Street, Redcliffs, Canterbury, New
Zealand.
*Odell, A. B., 10 Knights Park, Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
*Ogden, James R., 38 James Street, Harrogate, Yorks.
*01dfield. Miss F., 56 Heybridge Avenue, London, S.W. 16.
* Oldham, Miss L. M., 13 Priory Avenue, High Wycombe, Bucks.
*0or, Georges, 49 Dieweg, Brussels, Belgium.
*08borne, Miss H., 10 Empire House, London, S.W. 7.
436 Members and Associates. [part
*Osmaston, Mrs, Beacon Crag, Porthleven, Cornwall.
*Osmaston, Dudley F., Woodside, Bradfield, Berks.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
*Pagenstecher, G., M.D., 12a Monterrey 214, Mexico City, Mexico.
*Paley, G. A., Melton Wold, Victoria West, CP., S. Africa.
*Palmer, C. G., C.I.B., Duncan, Vancouver Island, British Columbia.
*Palmer, John W. G., 13 New Road, Brighton, Sussex.
*Palmes, W. T., I.C.S., c/o Messrs Scott & Co., Rangoon, Burma.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
Parsons, Karl, Ropewind, Shalbourne, Marlborough, Wilts.
*Parsons, Miss Llewellyn, 17 East 83rd Street, New York, U.S.A.
Parsons, N. M., 64 Chelsea Park Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*Parsons, Miss P. C, 95 Nether Street, London, N. 12.
*Patten, Henry J., Ill W. Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*Patterson, A. C, Academy Place, Castle Douglas.
*Pattinson, G. P., Eagley Bank, nr Bolton.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Payne, Mrs E., 28 Horbury Crescent, London, W. 11.
*Peake, C. W., Masonsbridge House, Earlswood, Surrey.
Pease, Mrs J. R., Sesame Club, 49 Grosvenor Street, London, W. 1.
*Pennington, Mrs Henry, 279 Trinity Road, London, S.W. 12.
Perceval, Hon. Mrs Dudley, 153 Church Street, London, S.W. 3.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/o Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Ltd., London,
W.C. 2.
*Perrott, F. D., The Abbey, Penzance, Cornwall.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Seighford, Mill Road, West Worthing,
Sussex.
Perry, Mrs T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Phillimore, Hon. Mrs, Kendals Hall, Radlett, Herts.
*Phillimore, Miss M., 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Phillips, Mrs, c/o Mrs Colin Gow, 42 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W. 10
*Pickard, Mrs Fortescue, 51 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Piddington, J. G., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
*Pierce, Mrs Theron, Pride's Crossing, nr Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Piercy, Major B. H., 94 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treen, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, London, S.W. 18.
Pithapuram, The Maharajah of, Pithapuram, Madras Presidency, India.
*Plant, Mrs, Carfax, Dilhorne, Stoke-on-Trent.
*Plowden, Mrs, Dawnedge, Aspley Guise, Bletchley, Beds.
*Polak, Mrs M. Graham, 34 De Vere Gardens, London, W. 8.
*Pollock, A. N., M.B., Ch.B., Malton House, Barlow Moor Road,
Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Lanes.
*Pontifex, Dudley D., 73 Alleyn Park, London, S.B. 21.
*Pope, Miss M. M., 7 Princes Buildings, Clifton, Bristol.
*Porteous, Wing-Commander H. B., R.A.F., M.B., Air Headquarters,
Valletta, Malta.
Portsmouth, Beatrice, Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
119] Members and Associates. 437
*Potter, J. W., 63 Catherine Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Powell, Mrs, 17 Sheffield Terrace, London, W. 8.
Powles, Lewis Charles, Rother Cliff, Rye, Sussex.
*Prebble, Mrs, Fairhaven, Upper Strickland Avenue, Hobart, Tas-
mania.
*Preedy, Kenelm, 1 Ashburn Place, London, S.W. 7.
*Preston, E. M., The Warren, Hayes, Kent.
*Price, Harry, Royal Societies' Club, 63 St James's Street, London,
S.W. L
*Pumphrey, Mrs, Hindley Hall, Stocksfield-on-Tyne, Northumberland.
*Putman, Miss Irene, 328 Walnut Avenue, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Pye, Leslie R., Penpergwm Lodge, Abergavenny, Wales.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Rabb, Albert L., 1422 Park Avenue, Indianapolis, Ind., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph.
*Radclyfie-Hall, Miss M., The Black Boy, Rye, Sussex.
Raikes, Mrs, The Mill House, Burford, Oxon.
*Rampling-Rose, Major W., The Llyndir, Rossett, Wrexham.
Ramsden, Miss, 16 Incognito Gade, Oslo, Norway.
'^Rand, Waldron H., Jr., 139 Gibbs Street, Newton Center, Mass., U.S.A.
*Ransoni, Francis, Newlands, Hitchin, Herts.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
*Rawitski, Dr Carl, Friederikstrasse 12, Bochum, Germany.
*Rawsthorn, Mrs, Calder Mount, Garstang, nr Preston, Lanes.
*Rayleigh, Lord, Terling Place, Chelmsford, Essex.
*Rayleigh, The Dowager Lady, 65 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Ready, Miss B. A., 300 Victoria Park Road, Leicester.
*Reece, Mrs, Rose Cottage, Peterston-s-Ely, nr Cardiff.
*Reeves, Mrs M. S., 31 Pembroke Square, London, W. 8.
Reid, Mrs, Crescent House, Effingham Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
Rendall, Rev. Dr G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
*Resch, F. X., Litt.B., 925 Pacific Avenue, Kansas City, U.S.A.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford, Yorkshire.
Richmond, Kenneth.
*Rickman, John, M.D., 11 Kent Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
*Riddle, Mrs, Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew, Surrey.
Ridley, M. Roy, Balliol College, Oxford.
*Rinehart, Dr Stanley M., 2419 Massachusetts Avenue, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
*Ritchie, A. J., Oriental Club, Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Riviere, Mrs Evelyn, 3 Stanhope Terrace, London, W. 2.
Rix, Rev. A. H., 37 St Paul's Road, Manningham, Bradford.
*Roberts, C. E. Bechhofer, Leylands Farm, Abinger Common, nr
Dorking, Surrey.
^Robertson, Mrs J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W. 1.
*Robson, Major J. S., Hales Place, Tenterden, Kent.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Friezewood, Rudgeway, Bristol.
438 Members and Associates. [part
*Romanes, F. J., The Brick House, Duton Hill, Dunmow, Essex.
*Ross, Mrs Halford, 136b Gloucester Terrace, London, W. 2.
*R6thy, Charles, Szasz Karoly Gasse 3, Budapest, Hungary.
*Russell, Mrs, Oaklands, Hook, Basingstoke.
*Russell, Mrs E. S., Castlefield, Presteign, Radnorshire.
*Rust, Dr Montague, Boyndie, West Newport, Fife.
*Ryan, Mrs E. M., Poste Restante, Tozeur, Tunisie, N. Africa.
*Ryley, Mrs Beresford, 37 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
*St Aubyn, Hon. Mrs Francis, 34 Ennismore Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*St John, Brig. -General G. F. W., C.B., Picton House, Llandowror,
St Clears, Carmarthenshire.
*Salter, F. R., Magdalene College, Cambridge. •
"
*Salter, W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Salter, Mrs W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Saltmarsh, H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
*Saltmarsh, Mrs H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
Samaldas, Hon. Sir Lalubhai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Sassoon, Mrs Alfred, Weirleigh, Matfield Green, Kent.
Savill, Mrs, M.D., 7 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, F.B.A., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
*Schofield, R. W., 53 Leyland Road, Southport.
*Scotland, Douglas C, L.R.C.P., Church Lane, Brighouse, Yorks.
Scott, Miss A. D., 60 Hornsey Lane, London, N. 6.
Scott, Rev. D. D., C.F., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New
Zealand.
Scott, Captain J. E., 39 Albany Mansions, London, S.W. 11.
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
Sellers, Miss R. A., Woodlands, West Virginia, U.S.A.
Seton-Karr, Captain H. W., 8 St. Paul's Mansions, London, W. 6.
*Sewell, Mrs C. H., Towerhurst, Leigh Woods, Bristol.
*Seymour, Lieut. -Colonel C. R. F., Ivydene, Park Avenue, Sandy-
mount, Dublin, I.F.S.
*Seymour, Miss E. F., Sunnyside, Pirbright, Surrey.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, London, W. 8.
Shastri, B. G., Kala Mehta's Street, Sagrampura, Surat, India.
*Shaw, Mrs Bernard, 4 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. 1.
*Shaw, Mrs B. Vidal, Kisumu, Kenya Colony.
*Sheldon, J. H., M.D., M.R.C.P., Airedale, Regis Road, Tettenhall,
nr Wolverhampton.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong.
*Sidgwick, Mrs Henry, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey. -
Simpson, Miss E. C. Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
*Sinclair, Miss May, 1 Blenheim Road, London, N.W. 8.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
*Smart, Rev. H. E., Holy Trinity Rectory, Exeter.
Smith, G. Albert, Rosedene, 7 Melville Road, Hove, Sussex.
*Smith, Harrison Bowne, Jr. c/o The George Washington Life
Insurance Co., Charleston, W. Va., U.S.A.
*Smith, Marion, 80-llth Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.
119] Members and Associates. 439
*Smith, Percy Kendall, Wintergreen Hill, Painsville, Ohio, U.S.A.
Smith, Rev. Canon Sidney M., 26 Clifton Road, Halifax, Yorkshire.
*Smith, The Lady Sybil, Mitford House, Lennox Gardens, London,
S.W. 1.
Smith, Rev. William J., The Manse, Bo'ness, West Lothian.
*Smith, W. S. Montgomery, 16 Kensington Hall Gardens, London, W. 1 4.
*Smith, W. Whately, 46 Queens Gate Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
*Soal, S. G., Scratton Lodge, Brook Road, Prittlewell, Essex.
Soley, Mrs, 66 Holbein House, Sloane Square, London, S.W. 1.
Southern, H., 3 Crescent Road, Beckenham, Kent.
*Spankie, W. M., 62 Alexandra Road, London, N.W. 8.
*Spears, Mrs E. L., 8 Little College Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Spears, John, L.R.C.S., 145 Merton Road, London, S.W. 19.
Spens, William, Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
*Spranger, John A., 4 Via Micheli, Florence, Italy.
*Stansfield, Mrs, 70 Northcourt Avenue, Reading, Berks.
*Steane, G. A., 10a Hay Lane, Coventry.
^Stephen, Dr Karin, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 50 Gordon Square, London,
W.C. I.
Stephens, Mrs, 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Stephens, W. F., Mahe, Seychelles, Indian Ocean.
*Stephenson, F. W., Winter Field, Melbury Abbas, Shaftesbury, Dorset.
^Sterling, Miss F. M., Home Wood, Hartfield, Essex.
*Stevens, Rev. W. H., Bankfield, Quarry Hill, Sowerby Bridge, Yorks.
Stevenson, A. Creery, Bervie, Wood Lane, Fleet, Hants.
*Stevenson, Mrs A. F. G., 72 Heath Street West, Toronto, Canada.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Stobart, Mrs St Clair, 7 Turner's Wood, London, N.W. 4.
Stoehr, Miss, Hotel Belvedere, Bordighera, Italy.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St Andrews.
*Strachey, Mrs J. St Loe, 39 St Leoriard's Terrace, London, S.W. 3.
*Stratton, Professor F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
*Strawson, A. H., 27 Norfolk Road, London, N.W. 8.
Streatfeild, W. H. R., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 18a Thurloe Place, London,
S.W. 7.
Strong, Rev. Charles, D.D., Concord, Barnato Grove, Armadale,
Melbourne, Australia.
Strutt, Captain Hon. A. C, R.N., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
*Sturdy, Edward T., Norburton, Burton Bradstock, Bridport, Dorset.
*Sturt, H. H., c/o Asiatic Petroleum Co., Singapore, Straits Settlements.
*Summerson, F. C, Langridge, New England Road, Haywards Heath,
Sussex.
*Suringar, Dr J. Valckenier, Wageningen, Holland.
*Sutton, Mrs C. W., 4002 Montrose Avenue, Westmount, Montreal,
Canada.
Swainson, Miss F. J., 24 Montpelier Square, London, S.W. 7.
*Swainson, Miss M., 42 Warrington Crescent, London, W. 9.
*Sweeney, H. J. P., 3 Plowden Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
Swinburne, Mrs, 16 Park Village East, London, N.W. 1.
*Swing, Mrs, Coconut Grove, Florida, U.S.A.
440 Members and Associates. [PAKT
^Symington, Howard W., The Paddocks, Market Harborough.
Tait, Mrs, 9 Aberdeen Court, London, W. 9.
Tait, Mrs W. J., LismuUen, Oriental Road, Woking, Surrey.
*Talbot, Lieut.-Colonel F. G., D.S.O., Glenhurst, Bsher, Surrey.
*Tarpey, Mrs Kingsley, 33 Buckingham Mansions, London, N.W. 6.
Tatham, Hon. Justice F. S., D.S.O., Parkside, Alexandra Road,
Pietermaritzburg, S. Africa.
*Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 42 Warrington Crescent, London, W. 9.
*Telling, W. H. Maxwell, M.D., 29 Park Square, Leeds.
*Thaw, A. Blair, 3255 N. Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Thaw, Mrs A. Blair, 3255 N. Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Thomas, Rev. C D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford.
*Thomas, John F., 4375 Buena Vista, West, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
^Thomas, Miss S. E., 368 Alexandra Park Road, London, N. 22.
*Thompson, Dr R. B., Fellside, Brixham, S. Devon.
*Thomson, Mrs Leslie, 9a St Mary Abbot's Place, London, W. 8.
*Thorburn, John M., University College, Cathays Park, Cardiff.
Thornley, Miss F. J., Bassett Rise, Roundham Head, Paignton, Devon.
Thornton, Mrs, 5 Belgrave Place, Edinburgh.
Thorp, Richard, 8 Colenso Avenue, Napier, New Zealand.
*Thurn and Taxis, H.LH. The Princess Mary of, Loucen, Nymburg,
Czecho-Slovakia.
Thurston, Rev. Herbert, S.J., 114 Mount Street, London, W. 1.
*Tillyard, Dr R. J., F.R.S., Canberra, F.C.T., Australia.
Tinnevelly, Rt Rev. The Lord Bishop of, Bishopstowe, Palamcottah,
S. India.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow, I.F.S.
*Traprain, The Viscountess, Whittingehame House, Whittingehame,
Haddington.
*Trautwein, Mrs M. Edith, Viktor Scheffelstrasse 11", Munich, Ger-
many.
*Trethewy, A. W., Artillery Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Trimen, Mrs, Bailey's Hotel, Gloster Road, London, S.W. 7.
*Troubridge, Una, Lady, The Black Boy, Rye, Sussex.
'''Tuckey, Mrs C. Lloyd, Ingarsby, Silverdale Road, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Tudor, Owen S., Fernhurst, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Tugwell, Mrs Arthur, Lanherne, Frant Road, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
^Turner, Miss J., B.A., 14 Endsleigh Street, London, W.C. 1.
*Turner, Miss M. E., 6 Clifton Road, London, N. 8.
Tuson, K. H., Lieut., R.E., G.H.Q., British Troops, Cairo, Egypt.
*Tyrrell, G. N., 15 Hartley Road, Bxmouth, Devon.
Ulman, Mrs Jacob A., Brooklandville, Baltimore County, Md., U.S.A.
*Vandy, G. E., 94 Essex Road, London, E. 12.
'''Van Dijk, H. M., Staalkade 7, Amsterdam, Holland.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam,
Holland.
*Vatcher, Mrs, 21 St Leonard's Road, London, W. 13.
119] Members and Associates. 441
*Vaughan, E. L., 8 Arlington Koad, Eastbourne.
! Verrall, Miss M. E.
*Vincent, Miss G. H. M. M., Carisbrooke Koad, Leicester.
*Vinen, Northcote H., 8 Park Mansions, London, S.E. 26.
*Vinton, W. J., 234 East 15th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Voss, Dr Vivian, Transvaal University College, Pretoria, S. Africa.
Vjrvyan, Mrs T. C, Poldhu, Rickmond, Natal, Soutk Africa.
*Wagstafi, Mrs, The Firs, Roundham Hill, Paignton, S. Devon.
*Wales, Hubert, Homewood Heath, Hindhead, Surrey.
*Waley, S. D., Littlebarn, Wildwood Road, London, N.W. 11.
*Walker, Mrs J. F., 26 St Andrew's Mansions, London, W. 1.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 49 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W. 10.
Walker, Miss May C, c/o National Provincial Bank, Piccadilly,
London, W. 1.
*Walker, Miss Nea, 13 York Road, Bdgbaston, Birmingham.
Walker-Munro, Mrs, Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
^Wallace, Miss Margaret, 18 Marlborough Place, London, N.W. 8.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
Wang, C. Y., 63 Szeming Street, S.D.A., Hankow, China.
*Warcollier, Rene, 79 Avenue de la Republique, Courbevoie, Seme,
France.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Moorings, Menai Bridge, N. Wales.
*Warner, Mrs W. W.
Warren, Mrs Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
*Warrick, F. W., 6 Raymond Buildings, London, W.C. 1.
=^Watkins, Mrs, Ock House, Abingdon, Berks.
Watson, Lady Milne- 73 Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Wedd, N., King's College, Cambridge.
*Weldon, Arthur, 23 Westminster Palace Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Wellesley, Sir Victor A. A. H., C.B., 20 St Loo Mansions, London,
S.W. 3.
*Wells, Mrs Thomas B., Green Bay Road, Lake Forest, 111., U.S.A.
Wemyss, Countess of, 62 Cadogau Square, London, S.W. 1.
*West, M., Cornerways, Baughurst, nr Basingstoke, Hants.
*Westcott, G. F., Science Museum, London, S.W. 7.
*Westray, Mrs, 25 Cavendish Road West, London, N.W. 8.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
*White, Miss A. E., Woodbine, Pemberton, nr Llanelly, S. Wales.
* Whitehead, Miss Mercia D.
*Whitmee, A. C, Homelands, Fortis Green, London, N. 2.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
Wild, Miss Ida, Old Larkshayes, Dalwood, Kilmington, S. Devon.
*Wilde, Mrs, Greenhill, Thorncombe, Chard, Somerset.
Wilkins, Mrs, 12 Braemar Avenue, Thornton Heath, Surrey.
Wilkins, C. F., Villa I'Horizon, Brunet, Toulon (Var), France.
*Wilkins, Rev. H. J., D.D., Redland Green, Bristol, Glos.
*Wilkinson, Mrs C, Ardanoir, Foynes, Co. Limerick, I.F.S.
*Wilkinson, Rev. D. H. D., 45 Clifford Road, New Barnet, Herts.
442 Members and Associates. [part 119]
Williamson, Mrs, The Copse, Brook, Godalming, Surrey.
^Williamson, John, M.D., Heathfield, 18 College Road, Epsom, Surrey.
Williams-Walker, Dr A., 5 Yardley Wood Road, Moseley, Birmingham.
Willis, Grant B., Leesburg, Indiana, U.S.A.
*Willock, Mrs C. J., Lanysoal, Maresfield, Sussex.
*Wills, Miss Mary Tappan, c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W. 1.
*Wilson, Mrs C. Stuart, Cairo, Egypt.
*Wilson, J. S., 24 Chapel Street, London, S.W. 1.
Wilson, Percy, 48 Clarendon Road, London, S.W. 15.
*Wilson, Miss Rosemary, 25 Oakwood Court, London, W. 14.
*Wilson, S. R. W., Lodge Farm, Wigginton, nr Tring, Herts.
*Wilson-Wright, L. A., Meer Hill, Loxley, Warwick.
*Winby, Lieut.-Col. L. P., 11 Trevor Square, London, S.W. 7.
*Winchilsea and Nottingham, Dowager Countess of. Dower House,
Ewerby, Sleaford, Lines.
Wingham, T. H., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
*Winterstein, Dr Baron Alfred von, Wattmanngasse 38, Vienna xiii,
Austria.
*Wodehouse, The Lady Isabel, Kimberley House, Wymondham.
*Wood, Rev. James L., 912 South 48th Street, Philadelphia, Penn.,
U.S.A.
*Wood, Richard, 7 Frankfort Avenue, Rathgar, Dublin, I.F.S.
*Wood, T. Eugene, Redcliffe, 14 Chine Crescent Road, Bournemouth.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, nr Tewkes-
bury, Glos.
Woods, Miss Alice, St Ives, Radlett, Herts.
Woods, Miss C. E., Graythorjje, Kingswood, Surrey.
*Woolley, Mrs Cornell, 950 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Woolley, V. J., M.D., 18 Freta Road, Bexley Heath, Kent.
*Workman, E. W., B.Sc, Rua Serpa Pinto 59, Oporto, Portugal.
*Worsfold, Mrs Basil, 3 Plowden Buildings, London, E.C. 4.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, London, S.W. 18.
*Wright, Dr A. F.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 86 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
*Yardley, R. B., The Birches, London Road, Cheam, Surrey.
*Yerburgh, Rev. W. H. B., The Rectory, Bredon, Tewkesbury, Glos.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, Currant Hill, Westerham, Kent.
*Zachystal, Dr Dominik, Havl. nam 6, Prague, Czecho Slovakia.
*Zeigler, Major C. H., Springfield, Breinton, Hereford.
*Zeller, Dr Gustave, Dettenhausen, bei Tubingen, Germany.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. 39.
For the sake of brevity sueli qualifications as " supposed,"
"alleged," etc., are omitted"from this index. It must, however, be
understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and doss
not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry is in
fact real or genuine.
A Case, the, in the Warren Elliott
investigation, 66-80.
Absent Sitter sittings, description of,
54-55.
" Akashic records," 181.
Aksakov (A. ^\.), on D. D. Home,
251, 252-253.
Alrutz (S.), 168.
Association, 113-114.
Astrology, 294.
Automatic writing, in the Tony
Burman case, 6, 34, 40.
Balfour (Arthur James, Earl of), note
on and portrait, 305.
Barrett (Su- W. F.), 249.
Barrett (Lady), 364.
Barthez (Dr), the letter of, about
D. D. Home, 247-248, 262-263.
Bazett (Miss), sittings with, in the
Tony Burman case, 7-8.
Besterman (Theodore), 347 ;
" Lib-
rary Catalogue (Sujiplement 1928-
1929)," 193-246 ; review by, 415-
418 ;
—, S. G. Soal, and Ina Jephson,
" Report of a Series of Experi-
ments in Clairvoyance Conducted
at a Distance under approximately
Fraud-proof Conditions," 375-414.
Booktests. 321-322.
Brackenbury (Mrs), 348, 355-356 ;
V. J. Woolley and, " The Margery
Mediumship, and the London
Sittmgs of December 1929," 358-
364, 365.
Broad (Dr C. D.), 170 172-175,
182, 320 n.
Brown (Dr W.), 361-367.
Burman (Anthony Hurdis [Tony] ),
the case of spirit-communications
from, 1-46.
Card-guessing, on the study of, 185-
192 ; experiments in, 375-414.
Carruthers (Miss), 380, 381, 414.
Chance in connection v,nth the
Warren Elliott sittmgs, 48-51, 145-
149.
Chenoweth [Soule], (Mrs), 277.
Clairvoyance, the hypothesis of, in
the Warren ElUott sittings, 157-
161 ; the investigation of, by card-
guessing. 185-192 ;
experiments in,
under approximately fraud-proof
conditions, 375-414.
Classification, modes of, in the
Warren Elliott investigation, 63-64.
Chches in sittmgs, 117-119, 134.
444 Index to Vol. XXXIX. [PARTS
Control, the need for, in investigating
physical phenomena, 290-294 ; in
the Margery mediumship, 358-368 ;
its inadequacy, 361-368.
Control- experiments in the Warren
Elliott investigation, 48-51, 145-
149.
Coover (J. E.), 402.
Cosmic consciousness, 180-181.
Crandon (Dr and Mrs), 358-368.
Crookes (Su- W.) on D. D. Home,
249, 253, 258-2.59.
Cyon (Dr E.), on D. D. Home, 251,
264-265.
Dallas (Miss H. A.), 248-249.
Davey, (S. J.), the experiments of,
258.
Deferred impressions, 101-103, 133.
Dick (Lieut. -Colonel Maxwell), 380,
381, 383, 384.
Dicksonn ("Professor"), on D. D.
Home, 249-250, 263-264.
Dingwall (E. J.), 54.
Dingwall (Mrs E. J.), 341.
Dowdall (Mrs), sitting with, 139-140.
Dowden (Mrs), sitting with, in the
Tony Bmman case, 40.
Dream consciousness, 99-100, 135.
Dunraven (the Earl of), investigation
of D. D. Home, 2.54-258.
Du Potet (Baron), on D. D. Home,
259, 264.
Einstein (A.), 172.
ElUott (Mrs Warren), report on the
investigation of some sittings with,
47-184, 269-271, 333-342, 412.
Emanations, the theory of, 168.
Estabrooks (Dr G. H.), 404, 412.
Eugenie (the Empress), D. D. Home's
connection with, 248, 250-251,
263, 264.
Exposure, the, of D. D. Home, 247-
265.
Feda, Mrs Leonard's Control, 1, 3, 20,
24, 25, 32, 43, 44, 120, 123-125,
141-142, 306-342.
Feilding (Hon. E.), 250.
Fisher (Dr R. A.), 187, 266, 268, 387,
404, 412, 414; "The Statistical
Method in Psychical Research,"
189-192.
Fleury (Comte), exposure of D. D.
Home by, 251, 264-265.
Flugel (Prof. J. C.), 376-414, passim.
Fonnereau (N. C), 327, 339.
Forthuny (Pascal), the visit of, to the
Society, 347-357.
France (Mabel), 2-41.
Fraud, the problem of, in the medium-
ship of D. D. Home, 247-265;
in clairvoyance, a technique to
prevent, 377-385.
Freud (S.), 125.
Garrett (Mrs), sitting with, in the
Tony IJurman case, 1, 4, 5, 8-19,
24, 31, .39, 42, 43.
Glossary of terms used in reporting
on the Warren Elliott investiga-
tion, 64-66.
Oraham, Alexander, report of sittings
taken by, 314-319.
Habits (preferences), psychological,
96-99.
Hall (G.' Stanley), 297.
Hall (M. Radclyffe-), 307.
Hall (S. C), 261.
Hayes (Rev. J. W.), 355.
Hayward (Lieut. -Colonel W. D.),
380, 384.
Heuze (Paul), on D. D. Home, 249-
2.50, 263.
Home (D. D.), on a probable ex-
posure of, 247-265.
Hope (Lord Charles), 361, 365.
Horsell (Miss E. M.), 314, 341.
Hypnagogic phenomena, 117, 135.
Hyslop (J. H.), 296, 297.
Impressions, deferred, 101-103, 133.
" Intrusion " at sittings, 115-117.
Irving (Rev. W. S.), 53, 124, 141,
158, 327-332 ;
" Thoughts on Mr
Saltmarsh's Report on a Series
of Sittings," 333-342.
Irving (Mrs W. S.), spirit communica-
tions from, 327-342.
Jackson (Prof. Henry), 322-325.
James (William), 277, 278, 304.
Jephson (Ina), 189-192 ;
" A Reply
to M. Sudre's article '
An Experi-
ment in Card Guessing,' " 184-
189 ; , Theodore Besterman,
and S. G. Soal, " Report of a Series
of Experiments in Clairvoyance
conducted at a Distance under
112-119] Index to Vol. XXXIX. 445
approximately Fraud-proof Con-
ditions," 375-414.
Johannes, Mrs Dowden's Control, 40.
Jones (Sir Lawrence), 101.
Jung (C. G.), 125.
Kant (I.), 172, 179.
King (]\Ir3), medium, 277.
Lang (Andrew), 297.
Leaf (Walter), 172-173, 182.
Leonard (Mrs), sittings with, in the
Tony Burman case, 1, 3, 19-39, 42,
43, 44 ; in the A case, 70-71, 72-73,
117, 141-142 ; incidents occurring
at sittings with, which may throv/
light upon their modus operandi,
306-332 ; notes on sittings by Mi"
Irving with, 333-342.
Levitation, D. D. Home's, 257 «.
Library Catalogue (Supplement 1928-
1929), 193-246.
Lodge (Sir 0. J.), 294 ; note on
Count Perovsky's paper on D. D.
Home, 262.
Lourdes, cures at, 369-373.
McDougaU (Prof. W.), 346.
Margery, the London sittings of, in
1929, 358-368.
Mason (Mrs), medium, 339.
Medium, psychology of the, 111-113.
Mediumistic communications, a me-
thod of estimating the supernormal
content of, 266-271.
Mediums : Bazett, Miss, 7-8 ; Dow-
dall, Mrs, 139-140 ;
Dowden, Mis,
40 ;
Elhott, Mrs Warren, 47-184,
269-271, 333-342, 412 ;
Forthuny,
Pascal, 347-359 ;
Garrett, Mrs.,
1, 4, 5, 8-19, 24, 31, 39, 42, 43 ;
Home, D. D., 247-265 ;
Kbig, Mrs,
277 ;
Leonard, Mrs, 1, 3, 19-39, 42,
43, 44, 70-71, 72-73, 117, 141-142,
306-342 ;
Margery, 358-368 ;
Mason,
Mrs, 339 ;
Ossowiecki, Stefan, 402
;
SouIe,Mrs, 277 ;
Thompson,Mis,314.
Mental phenomena, the status of the,
295-301.
Merrifield (F.), on D. D. Home, 254.
Monnier (Henry), Etude medicale de
quelques guerisons survenues a
Lourdes, reviewed, 369-373.
Morio de I'lsle (Baron), on D. D.
Home, 248, 250, 263.
Moses (Rev. W. Stainton), 259-260.
Murphy (Prof. Gardner), 376-414,
'passim.
Myers (F. W. H.), 249, 294, 295.
Mystical views of supernormal pheno-
mena, 180-181.
Name preferences, 96-98.
Nelly, Mrs Thomjjson's Control,
314.
Newton (Isabel), 53, 54, 107, 140-142,
160, 166, 171, 334-335, 414.
Nonsense names, 98.
Notetakers, psychology of, 107-108.
Numerology, 295.
Observation, the conditions of, of
physical phenomena, 289-294.
Osmosis and mediumistic psychology,
parallels between, 129-132.
Ossowiecki (Stefan), 402.
Osty (Dr E.), 156, 161-164, 167-168,
178-179, 182.
Ouija board, use of the, 2, 4, 5, 6, 68.
Page (Dr T. E.), 323-324.
Palmistry, 294-295.
Pearson (Dr E. S.), 403.
Perovsky- Petrovo- Solovovo (Count)
,
review by, 369-373 ;
" Some
Thoughts on D. D. Home," 247-
265.
Physical phenomena, the status of
the, 289-294.
Picture-test, 314-319.
Piddmgton (J. G.), 277.
Planchette, communication by means
of the, 276.
Playing-cards, guessing, the study of,
185-192 ;
experiments in, 375-414.
Podmoro (Frank), 247, 259, 297.
Preferences, psychological, 96-99,
117-119.
Present, specious, the doctrine of the,
170-172.
Presidential Address, 273-304.
Prince(DrW. F.), The Enchanied Boun-
dary, reviewed, 415-418; "Presi-
dential Address," 273-304.
Psychological analysis of the Warren
Elliott sittings, 93-142.
preferences, 96-99.
Psychology of the medium, 111-113 ;
of notetakers, 107-108 ; of sitters,
103-107.
Psychometry ia the Warren Elhott
sittings, 47-184, passim ; the func-
446 Index to Vol. XXXIX. [PARTS
tion of the object, 108-111, 114-
115 ; in the Forthuny sittings,
355-357.
Richet (Prof. C), 249, 403.
Roland Bonaparte (Prince) on D. D.
Home, 250, 263, 264.
Salter (Mrs W. H.), " Some Incidents
occurring at Sittings with Mrs
Leonard which may throw light
upon their modus operandi,'" 306-
332.
Saltmarsh (H. P.), 190 ;
" Report
on the Investigation of some
Sittings with Mrs Warren Elliott,"
47-184 ; , thoughts on, by the
Rev. W. S. Irving, 333-342.
•
and S. G. Soal, " A Method of
Estimating the Supernormal Con-
tent of Mediumistic Communica-
tions," 266-271.
Schiller (Dr F. C. S.), 284.
Scoring, method of, in the Warren
Elliott investigation, 36-64 ; as
applied to physical descriptions of
Communicators, 61-63 ; in card-
guessing, 185-192.
Selectivity, the operation of, in
mediumistic communications, 129.
Sensory impressions, knowledge in
trance sittmgs derived from, 307-
314.
Sidgwick (Prof. Henry), 377.
Sidgwick (Mrs Henry), 7 n., 262, 297,
320 n. ; review by, 343-346.
Sinclair (Upton), Mental Radio, re-
viewed, 343-346.
Sitter Present sittings, description of,
53.
Sitters, psychology of, 103-107.
Soal, S. G., 149; , Theodore
Besterman, and Ina Jephson,
" Report of a Series of Experi-
ments in Clairvoyance Conducted
at a Distance under approximately
Fraud-proof Conditions," 375-414 ;
, H. F. Saltmarsh and, " A
Method of Estimating the Super-
normal Content of Mediumistic
Communications," 266-271.
Society for Psychical Research, Lib-
rary Catalogue (Supplement 1928-
1929), 193-246 ; Presidential Ad-
dress, 273-304.
Soule [Chenoweth] (Mrs), 277.
Specious present, the doctrine of the,
170-172.
Spiritistic hypothesis, the, 299.
Statistical method, the, in psychical
research, 56-64, 185-192, 266-271.
Sudre (R.), on card- guessing, reply
to, 185-192.
Supernormal content of mediumistic
communications, a method of
estimating, 266-271.
Supernormal theories in regard to the
Warren ElUott sittings, 150-180.
Survival, the theory of, 172-180 ; in
relation to telepathy, 297-301.
Sylvester (Prof. J. J.), 320.
Symbolism, the use of, in the Warren
Elliott sittmgs, 120-127.
Table- tilting, messages by means of,
2-3.
Technique, a proposed, for the in-
vestigation of trance mediumship,
183-184.
Telepathy, the hypothesis of, in the
Warren Elliott sittings, 150-156;
in relation to the hypothesis of
survival, 297-301 ;
experimental,
343-346.
Thomas (Rev. Drayton), 124, 126,
176, 307.
Thompson (Mrs), 314.
Thornton, Isabel (Mrs Harry Bur-
man), 1-46.
Thouless (R. H.), 168.
Thumb-prints, the, in the Margery
mediumship, 358-368.
Topsy, Mrs Warren Elliott's Control,
55-158, pa-ssini ; 341-342.
Troubridge (Una, Lady), 307, 326.
Trumpet-sitting, 2-3.
Uvani, Mrs Garrett's Control, 1, 4, 10,
11, 12, 14, 15.
Verrall (Dr and Mrs A. W.), spirit
communications from, 306-314,
320-326, 332.
Wagner (Prof. N.), 261 M.
Walker (Nea), " The Tony Burman
Case," 1-46.
Walter, Margery s Control, 359-367.
WarcolUer, Rene, 389.
White case, the, 1, 41-43.
Will to believe, the, 278-280.
112-119] Index to Vol. XXXIX. 447.
Woolley (V. J.), 53, 414 ;
" The Visit
of M. Pascal Tortliuny to the
Society in 1929," 347-357.
and E. Brackenbury, " Tlie
Margery Mediumship, and the
London Sittings of December
1929," 358-368.
Word and subject preferences, 117-
119, 134-135.
X Case, in the Warrea Elliott in-
vestigation, 80-86, 351.
X (Mrs), 1.
rniNTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASCiOW
