{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V41 1932-33","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v41_1932-33.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V41 1932-33","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
• VOLUME XLI
I
(CONTAINING PARTS 1-26-132)
I932-I933
The responsibiiitj for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
\
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Acients for America.- THE P. \V. FAXON CO.,
3 Francis Strekt, Boston, Mass.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
CONTENTS
PAET 126.
The Society foe Psychical Research. By Mes Henky Sidgwick 1
Appendix : Classified List of the Contents of the Society's
Proceedings and Journal ....... 27
PART 127.
The Past and the Future. Presidential Address by Sir Oliver
Lodge 61
Psychology and Psychical Research. By Dr William Brown 75
PART 128.
On a Method of Silhouette Photography by Infra-Red Rays
FOR Use in Mediumistio Investigations. By Lord Ray-
leigh, F.R.S 89
A Behaviourist Experiment in Clairvoyance. By Ina Jephson 99
Review : Boston Society for Psychic Research, Bulletin
XVIII. By Mrs Henry Sidgwick 115
PART 129.
Report on an Investigation into Spirit-Photography. By Fred
Barlow and Major W. Rampling-Rose .... 121
PART 130.
A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings. By the Rev.
C. Drayton Thomas 139
Report of an Inquiry into Peecognitive Dreams. By Theodore
Besterman . . •
186
Visions and Appaeitions Collectively and Recipeocally Per-
ceived. By Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart . . . 205
Review : Josef Deutsch, Konnersreuth. By Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo 250
256804
iv ^
Contents , .,
_
Report of a Series, oi: Sitttkos. with.B-e.ei Sces-e-ider. By Lord
Charles Hops -iNiJ' :?'iai-,E:«s : . '•'i
'•
• . . . 255
PART 132.
Presidential Address. By the Hon. ]\Irs Alfred Lyttblton,
G.B.E . 331
An Experiment in " Clairvoy'ance " with M. Stefan Ossowiecki.
By Theodore Besterman 345
List of Members and Associates 354
Index to Vol. XLI 375
THE SOCIETY FOK PSYCHICAL RESEARCH^
A SHORT ACCOUNT OF ITS HISTORY AND WORK ON THE
OCCASION OF THE SOCIETY'S JUBILEE, 1932
By Mrs Henry Sidgwick
On the occasion of the Jubilee of the Society for Psychical Research
it seems fitting that some account of its foundation and history should
be given, and in this paper I propose to describe these briefly mainly
from what may be called the administrative point of view. There
are very few living now besides myself who have been cognizant
from the beginning of what was in the minds of the founders of the
Society, or who have been from the earliest days in the imier circle
of workers, and this makes it suitable for me to attempt this paper.
^
The idea of foimding a Society to investigate our subjects and the
energy which brought it to fruition were Professor W. F. Barrett's^
(Professor of Physics at the Royal College of Science, Dublin, and
afterwards Sir William Barrett, F.R.S.). After soimding those whom
he knew to be interested in the questions to be investigated, among
whom were Myers, Gurney and Sidgwick, he convened a meeting in
London in January 1882 to discuss the formation of a Society, and
got the Society finally established in February of that year. The
number of members and associates was small to begia with. In the
1 Read by Lord BaKour at a General Meeting of the Society, 1 July 1932.
2 In the first list of Members and Associates of the Society published in
September 1882, no name published in our last list 1930 appears except that of
Mrs F. W. H. Myers. My own name does not appear till January 1884. I do
not distinctly remember the cause of this delay, but I think it was due to my
holding in 1882 a responsible position in another youthful institution—Newn-
ham College (for Women) at Cambridge. It was probably not thought desirable
to risk associating the CoUege in the public mind with what was likely to be
regarded as a cranky Society. If this recollection is right it gives some measure
of the difference of the position of our subject of study then and now. Though
not technically a Member I was entirely cognizant of the doings of the Society
and its Council from the beginning.
3 He knew that there was no existing scientific society in the world willing to
take the subject up, and the British Association had refused in 1876 to publish
a paper of his concerning telepathy.
2 Mrs Henry Sidgivick rpART
L.
first printed list—September 1882—there are only one hundred
names. But the number increased rather rapidly as our existence
and work became known, and though later the increase became less
in proportion to the total number it continued fairly regularly, though
with some fluctuations, till we reached what I may call our peak
number in 1920. We began that year with 403 Members and 902
Associates—together 1,305. But in that year because of the greatly
increased cost of printing and other things after the war,
the guinea a year paid by Associates did not cover their share
of administrative expenses —printing, salaries, rent, etc. — and
it was decided to discontinue, at least for a time, the election of new
Associates. The number of Associates has therefore since then in-
evitably diminished, losses by deaths and resignations not being
replaced. The number of full Members paying two guineas a year
continued to increase but not so fast as that of Associates diminished,
so that at the beginning of 1931, we had 586 Members and 368
Associates—in all 954, and unfortunately at the beginning of the
present year, 1932, we found our numbers reduced to 501 Members
and 308 Associates. This serious reduction, which we hope is tem-
porary, is largely due to the prevailing financial stringency.
The usefulness of a Society, if it can get itself established and can
secure sufficiently the confidence of the public, is obvious in work
like ours. It provides a centre to which accounts of experiences and
experiments can be sent and compared, where documents can be
kept and referred to, where discussion can go on, information and
advice can be sought and obtained. The existence of a Society also
facilitates experiments, and inquiries of a statistical kind, of which
several have been conducted from early days of the Society and
recently. But perhaps the most important use of a Society is that it
can publish in Proceedings material collected and the results of work
done—and I do not think I shall be accused of boasting if I say that
our forty volumes of Proceedings are a valuable mine of information
and discussion on the subjects we deal with. And further, a Society
provides a local habitation for a Library, which for serious students of
the subject is, of course, important. We have had one from the
beginning of the Society, but it was a very small affair at first, and its
growth, depending as it largely did on gifts of books, was somewhat
irregular ; but now through the able management of our Librarian,
Mr Theodore Besterman, and with the immense assistance of a much
appreciated grant from the Carnegie Trustees, it is probably as com-
plete a special Library for psychical research as can be found any-
where, and provides for students of the subject most of the special
books that they may need.^
1 Members and Associates can read on the premises, and Members can also
borrow books.
126] The Society for Psychical Research 3
Anotlier advantage of a Society suitably housed is that it can have
a room or rooms for experiments, whether these experiments are
organised by the Council or by private Members with the consent of
the Council ; and also for discussion by groups of Members.
In securing through the Society the material advantages indirectly
aiding investigation of which I have been speaking, and also in
meeting the actual expenses of investigation, finance has always been
an important element. The membership subscriptions have never
furnished sufficient funds to meet the expenses necessary, or at least
desirable, in carrying on the Society's work. We have, however, had
generous help in gifts and legacies from our supporters, and the
Council has seldom appealed in vain when it felt that help was re-
quired. This help has come in money and in kind, as for example
when our seance-room was built and fitted up for us. And in 1902
and 1903 two gifts from Members of £750 and £250 respectively were
received towards an endowment fund which was duly established and
placed in the hands of trustees in that year. Other gifts have been
received, and in that same year (1903) Mr A. N. Alvsakov, a Russian
Member of the Society of long standing and a life-long investigator
into psychical phenomena, died^ and bequeathed to the S.P.R. a sum
of (in English money) £3,805. This generous bequest was added to
the endowment fund. The income from this fund was allowed to
accumulate for many years, and the fund now produces nearly £400
a year.
While we are on the subject of finance it may be remarked that we
have never paid for any cases we have received, or for literary con-
tributions to Proceedings or Journal ; we did, however, on at any
rate one occasion pay for the drafting of an ofiicial report of one of our
investigations. And also in rather recent years, the number of
foreign periodicals devoted to psychical research having gradually
greatly increased, and it appearing advisable to keep our Members
more or less in touch with them and through them with what is going
on elsewhere in connection with the subject, it was decided to pay a
Member for supplying us regularly with short reviews of their con-
tents for the Journal.
It should be mentioned that perhaps the most important thing
that has enabled us to carry on our work without larger funds
is the great amount of gratuitous work done for us not only by
honorary officers and members of the Council, but by others, in in-
vestigations and collection of material, not to speak of administrative
work.
The first Council—eighteen Members and President (Henry
Sidgwick)— were all earnest inquirers, and many of them (including
those who may be called the principal founders, Barrett, Myers.
1 See memorial notice of him. Journal, xi. 85.
4 Mrs Henry Sidgwick [part
Gurney and Sidgwick^) experienced investigators. But they differed
widely in their views ;
some, e.g. Mr Stainton Moses, beiag ardent
Spiritualists and others merely inquirers, sometimes tending to be
very sceptical inquirers. This mixture, both in the Society and its
Council, was deliberately planned, so as to keep the field available to
investigators as wide and their minds as open as possible. But of
course, it made it impossible for the Society to have any collective
view as a Society, and accordingly, in a preliminary note to the
Society's constitution it is " expressly stated that membership of this
Society does not imply the acceptance of any particular explanation
of the phenomena investigated, nor any belief as to the operation, in
the physical world, of forces other than those recognised by Physical
Science." This has continued to be the Society's attitude through-
out its fifty years of life, though it is not, I think, always understood,
even by Members, that it is of no use asking what does the S.P.E.
think about this or that. Individual members or groups of members
may, and do have views of course, but the only thing either the Society
or its CouncU collectively agree about, is that the questions raised by
psychical research are important and investigation desirable.
The Council began its w^ork by dividing the subjects to be investi-
gated roughly into five classes—Thought-reading (now included
under telepathy) ; Mesmerism ; Reichenbach's experiments ;
Ap-
paritions, Haunted Houses, etc. ;
Physical Phenomena of Spiritual-
ism ; —and by appointing committees to undertake each. There was
also a literary committee responsible for collecting existing evidence
and spontaneous cases.
Work has been published in our Proceedings in all the above men-
tioned departments. The plan of having standing committees
appointed by the Council to carry out investigations in each class did
not, however, last very long. It was felt that the Council would al-
most necessarily to some indefinite extent, become saddled with
responsibility for opinions or conclusions reached by its own com-
mittees, and that responsibility both for facts and reasonings in the
papers and reports published should rest entirely with their authors.^
It remained with the Council to decide before publishing a paper that
it was, so far as they could judge, bonafide, and its contents worthy of
consideration, and that it dealt with subjects within the range of the
^ For some account of their investigations before 1882 see Proceedings, vol.
iv, and Barrett's Reminiscences, Proceedings, vol. xxxiv. They were not of
course the only pioneers. They had, for example at their disposal the published
works on our subjects of Sir WUliam Crookes, of Lord Adare (afterwards Lord
Duiiraven) concerning D.D. Home, of Mr Stainton Moses (himseli a medium)
—
see Myers's account of him after his death in Proceedings, vol. ix ; and the
Reijort on Spiritualism of the Committee of the London Dialectical Society.
^ Proceedings, ii. 238 ; Journal, i. 223 n.
126] The Society for Psychical Research
Society's work. In this it followed the practice of the Royal Society.
The new arrangement did not and does not prevent the Council from
making, when funds permit, grants in aid of what seem likely to be
useful investigations, or even from undertaking such investigations
itself in special cases. The Council still has a committee of reference
by which all papers must be passed before they are admitted to
Proceedings.
The only standing committee that survived for some time longer
was the literary committee which was responsible for receiving and
examining cases sent in to the Society. The nimiber of accounts of
spontaneous experiences that came in was a surprise to us,^ and the
labour involved in getting the evidence in these cases into a condition
sufficiently complete for publication was considerable. It was ca,l-
culated that over 10,000 letters were written during the year 1883 in
the course of collection and verification of evidence.^ And besides
correspondence with informants they were as far as possible inter-
viewed. In the early days it was less clear, even to the investigators,
than it is now what further information was desirable or even neces-
sary to complete a given case. And consequently more trouble was
involved than now when our informants themselves understand
better what is needed and are also, I think, less shy than they were at
first of allowing their experiences, especially with their names, to
appear in print. But I regret to say that for a good many years past
the number of cases sent to us has been much less than it used to be at
first. This is no doubt partly because the more remote cases in our
informants' experience have already been sent to our Society or pub-
lished elsewhere, and probably still more because our standard has
risen. It is widely known now that the Council are very chary of
publishing any but accounts at first hand of experiences, and those of
experiences either of recent occurrence or recorded very near the
time they happened. Still I think more would be sent to us if it were
more generally realised that carefully recorded cases continue from a
scientific point of view to be very important and that the trouble in-
volved in getting them into an evidential form is well worth while.
Each new case not only adds to the evidence for the occurrence of
such experiences but may throw fresh light on their nature and
causes—on why and how they occur.
It was in the year I referred to just now, 1883,—the second of the
Society's existence—that it was decided to bring out a book on
Phantasms of the Living, of which Gurney, Myers and F. Podmore
were to be the authors. It was sanguinely supposed that this book
would be ready in the following year, but the evidence kept growing
1 It may be repeated that no pecuniary reward of any kind was ever oSered
or given for a case.
^ Proceedings, ii. 45.
6 Mrs Henry Sidgwick [part
oil our liaiuls, and it was not till 1886 that the book appeared. Some
of the meetings of the Literary Committee in the early days of work
on Phantasms of the Living took place at the house of Henry Sidgwick
and myself at Cambridge, and they were, as I well remember, always
interesting and often amusing, as anyone who knew Gurney, Myers
and Sidgwick will understand.
To facilitate study and comparison of the cases we received, they
were printed on separate sheets (at the expense of a Member of the
Committee) of which each Member could thus have a copy and make
his own observations on it. Copies were also kept at the Society's
office where other Members of the Society could, if they wished,
examine and comment on them. The great majority of these cases
were capable of explanation by telepathy between the living, mean-
ing by that term the influence of one incarnate mind on another
without the intervention of the senses, and so came imder the head of
what we have called Phantasms of the Living. But there were also
cases of phantasms of the dead, premonitions, and other kinds which
of course did not come into the book. All that seemed valuable
among them have, however, been dealt with in articles in the Pro-
ceedings or otherwise.^ At the end of 1884 the printing of cases on
separate slips was superseded by a monthly Journal for private cir-
culation among Members and Associates in which cases under con-
sideration could be printed and studied more conveniently. The
Journal was also intended to be a vehicle for communication from
the Coimcil to the Society, Reports of Meetings, etc., and, moreover,
to enable Members to contribute, if they wished to do so, letters or
brief articles, or otherwise to discuss matters bearing on the Society's
work. In short, it was intended for private communication between
Members, on matters not necessarily meant for the public. One im-
^ Thus a paper on phantasms of the dead appeared in Proceedings, vol. iii ; on
premonitions in vol. v ; on apparitions occurring soon after death in vol. v
( begun by Gurney and after his death finished by Myers) ;
" Recognised appar-
itions more than a year after death " by Myers ;
" Phantasms of the Dead from
another point of view " by Podmore ;
" Defence of Phantasms of the Dead "
by Myers. These last three papers, with discussion, are in Proceedings, vol. vi
;
" Telepathic Clau-voyance," vol. vti ;
" Alleged Movements of Objects without
Contact," two papers by Myers, Proceedings, vol. vii, " Indications of continued
Terrene Knowledge on the part of Phantasms of the Dead," by Myers,
Proceedings, vol. viii. In Proceedings, vol. xi, is an article by Podmore quoting
cases of poltergeists ; and at a much later date, there is a paper in Proceedings,
vol. xxxiii, in which are collected cases parallel to those in the book Phantasms
of the Living, received after that was pubhshed. A few obviously important
cases have been placed at once in Proceedings without waiting to be placed in
groups e.g. " The Pv-ecord of a Haunted House " in vol. viii ;
" Subconscious
Reasonmg " by Professor Romaine Newbold, vol. xii ; a note on Fisher's
ghost by H. Arthur Smith in vol. xiv ;
" Recent cases of Premonition and
Telepathy " by the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, vol. xxix ; and " The Will of James L.
Chaffin " in vol. xxxvi.
126] The Society for Psychical Research 7
jwrtaut reason for printing it for private circulation only was, and is,
that informants sometimes send us cases which they are not willing
should be published, at any rate immediately, though willing that
they should be privately printed for the use of the Society. The
Journal has been carried on in the same spirit ever since and has, I
think, served its purpose well.
It may be seen, not only from the book Phantasms of the Living,
but from a glance at the early volumes of Proceedings that telepathy
or thought-transference, experimental and spontaneous, occupied
more of the Society's attention at first than did other departments of
investigation. Accounts of important experiments in various forms
of telepathy are published in each of the first eight volumes of Pro-
ceedings, but after that similar papers will be found only in volumes
xi, xxi, xxvii, xxix, xxxi and xxxiv. This concentration at first on
telepathy was not, I think, the result of any deliberate plan on the
part of the Coimcil. Telepathy forced itself on the Society rather
than was sought by it. In far the greater part of the spontaneous
cases sent to us which seemed to afford evidence of some super-
normal process, the process was apparently telepathic, or at least a
telepathic explanation was consistent with the facts as reported ;
and opportunities of experimenting in telepathy presented them-
selves more than they have done in later years. When the Society
was founded Professor Barrett had experiments with the Creary
children actually in hand. Later came the experiments in which
Mr G. A. Smith was concerned either as percipient or agent, and
which went on in one form or another into the nineties ;
and the very
important experiments conducted at Liverpool by Mr Guthrie and
others with the young ladies employed in the drapery business
which was under his management. Valuable accoimts of experiments
were also sent to us from France through Professor Richet, and also
from Germany by Dr Dessoir and Dr von Schrenck-Notzing.
The idea of thought-transference was, as it were, in the air, in this
country at least, in the early eighties, because of an amusement called
the " willing game " which was in vogue both in private drawing-
rooms and on public platforms. Some action, often very complicated,
to be performed by one of the party, whom we may call the per-
cipient, was decided on during his absence from the room. The wilier
then held his hand or put his hands on his shoulders or forehead, and
if experimenting seriously, took pains to avoid giving any indications
while willing him to perform the prescribed action, which he very
often succeeded in doing. Then there was much discussion on the
cause of success. Was it thought-reading, or was it " muscle-read-
ing "—the conscious or unconscious interpretation of slight move-
ments made by the wilier.^ Occasionally some percipients succeeded
1 See note on muscle-reading by the Rev. E. H. Sugden, Proceedings, i. 291.
8 Mrs Henry Sidgwick [part
without contact at all, which gave strong snp])ort to the advocates
of the thought-reading explanation. AH this naturally stimulated
interest in the subject, and led to general talk, and may have
occasionally helped to reveal some percipients who really possessed
a thought-reading faculty.
Even in the Society's earliest days telepathy was not of course the
only subject to which the Society devoted attention. There were
reports from its various standing committees already mentioned.
Gurney, notwithstanding his preoccupation with Phantasms of the
Living, almost from the first did excellent experimental work on the
psychological side of hypnotism. Myers was already occupied with
the subliminal self, automatism and kindred subjects. These sub-
jects he discussed at intervals in papers in Proceedings, which were
afterwards to be incorporated in his book Human Personality and
its Survival of Bodily Death.
In 1884 Madame Blavatsky. the founder in 1875 (in the U.S.A) of
the Theosophical Society, visited England, and the principal workers
in the S.P.R. saw a good deal of her. Evidence which made a great
impression on them was offered by her and her friends. This evidence
included accounts of apparitions of themselves voluntarily produced
at a distance^ by persons in India, and of telekinetic phenomena
such as are said to occur in the presence of physical mediums. The
Council appointed a committee to examine into the matter, and a
preliminary report by them, more or less favourable, was actually
printed and distributed to Members of the S.P.R., though never pub-
lished. It was felt, however, that before any final conclusion could
be arrived at, a Member of the Committee must be sent to India to
examine into the alleged phenomena and so far as possible cross-
question the persons concerned on the spot. Mr Richard Hodgson,
scholar of St John's College, Cambridge, and a graduate of Melbourne
University, Australia, was selected for this work. He went out in
November 1884, returning April 1885, having spent three months in
India, and his report, jiublished in Proceedings, vol. iii, would, I
think, convince any impartial reader that the apparently marvellous
phenomena were all produced by trickery by Mnie Blavatsky and her
confederates. Before Mr Hodgson started, two of these confederates
at the headquarters of the Theosophical Society at Madras, Mr and
Mrs Coulomb, had turned against that Society and its founders, and
given a number of very incriminating letters, written to them by
Madame Blavatsky, to the editors of the Christian College Magazine
at Madras, who had published some of them. Mme Blavatsky de-
clared that they, or at least the incriminating portions of them were
forgeries.
1 We have of course in Phantasms of the Living and Proceedings good evidence
of such voluntary apparitions quite apart from the Theosophical Society.
126] The Society for Psychical Research 9
The question of their genuineness had, of course, to be h)oked into
by Mr Hodgson, which was very thoroughly done, and in the result
the letters no doubt were of material assistance in helping him to many
details of the conclusion he and, after him, our whole Committee
arrived at—namely, that there was a very strong presumption that
all the marvellous narratives put forward are to be explained as due
either to deliberate deception carried out by, or at the instigation of,
Mme Blavatsky, or to spontaneous illusion or hallucination, or un-
conscious misrepresentation or invention on the part of the wit-
nesses. And the testimony to these marvels was in no case sufficient,
taking amount and quality together, to resist the force of this
general presumption.
I have dwelt on this investigation at perhaps undue length, be-
cause I think it had a great effect on our understanding of the
difficulty of our work and of the care required not to arrive at con-
clusions prematurely.
From 1884 to 1887 much of the energy of the Society and a large
proportion of its printed matter in Proceedings and Journal was for a
time taken up by discussion and correspondence concerning the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism and especially by the slate-writ-
ing (writing on slates by alleged occult means) of William Eglinton,
who was probably (after the Dr Slade brought into notoriety by
Professor ZoUner of Leipzig) the best known professional medium of
his day—certainly the best known in England. The whole discus-
sion may be said so far as the S.P.R. is concerned to have culminated
in the demonstration by Mr S. J. Davey, an amateur conjurer, that
he could produce by purely conjuring skill phenomena similar to
Eglinton's and equally inexplicable to witnesses who described them.
I thuik all unprejudiced persons who study the Proceedings and
Journal of the time^ will agree that the results of our inquiry were
fatal to the idea that Eglinton's performance afforded any evidence
of the use of supernormal power. And this conclusion is supported by
the fact that he had on two previous occasions been detected in
deliberate fraud ; one when he was performing as medium and as
materialised form at a materialisation seance ; and another in con-
spiracy with Mme Blavatsky for the mysterious conveyance of a
letter supposed to be sent by one of that lady's Mahatmas.
The publication of Mr Davey's " demonstration " is perhaps one
^ See especially " Accounts of some so-called Spiritualist Seances " by Pro-
fessor Carvill Lewis and others, Proceedi»gs, iv. .338; "The Possibilities of
Mal-observation and Lapse of Memory from a Practical Point of View,"
Introduction by Richard Hodgson, Proceedings, iv. 381 ; and "Experimental
Investigation," by S. J. Davey, Proceedings, iv. 405 ;
" Mr Davey's Imitations
by Conjuring of Phenomena sometimes attributed to Spirit Agency," by
Richard Hodgson, Proceedings, viii. 253. This last article was written after
Mr Davey's death in 1890.
10 Mrs Henry Sidgwick [part
of the most useful and important works of our Society. Tliere are
two dangers to be guarded against in estimating any experimental
or indeed spontaneous evidence we may obtain concerning tbe sub-
jects we study. One is overestimating our powers of observation and
memory and the other underrating what chance can do and the
allowance to be made for it. The first danger occurs chiefly in the
case of the physical phenomena of spiritualism, and Davey has proved
the fact and given us a measure of it.
A similar demonstration as regards the physical phenomena
occurring at sittings to-day, has been attempted on a somewhat
different plan by Mr Besterman and described in a paper read to the
Society this year.^
Colonel Taylor's paper on an" Experimental Comparison between
Chance and Thought-Transference in Correspondence of Diagrams
"
in Proceedings, vol. vi, is, I think, our first " control experiment " in
judging the effect of chance coincidences, and the result was favour-
able to telepathy. We have had several similar comparisons of
chance and supposed supernormal faculty as regards, e.g. cross-
correspondences and book-tests.
2
To go back to 1884, Professor Barrett in that year visited Canada
and the U.S.A. in connection with the Meeting of the British Associa-
tion at Montreal. With his usual enthusiasm and energy he suc-
ceeded in creating some interest in psychical research, and addressed
meetings at Philadelphia, Boston and also Montreal. As a result an
American Society was formed in January 1885, Professor William
James being a leading member. In 1887 Dr Hodgson who had done
so much in connection with the Blavatsky investigation, and with
Mr Davey, became its secretary and continued in that position, when
in the same year the American Society on its own proposal was
merged with and became a Branch of the English Society. The com-
bined societies workedharmoniously together till Dr Hodgson's sudden
death in 1905, after which it was thought better that the American
Society should resume an independent existence, which it did under
the guidance of Professor Hyslop of Columbia University, New York.
When Dr Hodgson became secretary to the American S.P.R. at
Boston he almost immediately became interested, under the inspira-
tion of Professor William James, in the trance mediumship of Mrs
Piper. The study of this became his predominant interest and work for
^ Theodore Besterman, " Tlie Psychology of Testimony in relation to
Paraphysical Phenomena," Proceedmgs, vol. xl.
^ See Miss H. de G. Verrall on " The Element of Chance in Cross-Corres-
pondences " Journal, xv. 183, xvi. 34 ; Mrs Sidgwick, "A Note on Chance in
Booktests " Proceedings, xxxi. 379 ; an article on " The Element of Chance in
Book-tests " Proceedings, xxxiii. 606 ; Theodore Besterman " Further In-
quiries into the Element of Chance in Book-tests " Proceedings, vol. xl. And
W. H. Salter, " An Experiment in Pseudo-Scripts," Proceedings, xxxvi.
126] The Society for Psychical Research 11
the rest of his life. Mrs Piper allowed him to a great extent to manage
her sittings for her and arrange who her sitters should be, and he was
thus able to keep her trance utterances and her development under
more or less regular observation, A fuller record of trance medium-
ship has probably been published in the case of Mrs Piper than
in that of any other trance medium. Beginning with Proceedings,
vol. vi, there are ten papers, some of them very long, dealing pri-
marily with the exhibition in Mrs Piper's trance of knowledge
ajjparently supernormally acquired, and four papers discussing the
published evidence. At the begmning of vol. xxviii is a descriptive
list of these fourteen papers. A fifteenth paper occupying the whole
of vol. xxviii is intended to throw light on the working of her trance
consciousness from a psychological point of view. And in yet another
paper in vol. xxxv Sir Trethewy carefully examines the question
whether the claim of the Imperator Band of Mrs Piper's Controls to
be the same as Mr Stainton Moses's Controls can be substantiated.
Hodgson died quite suddenly in December 1905, in the middle of a
game of ball, and his unexpected removal from our sphere was not
only a misfortune for our investigations generally, but especially so
from the point of view of Mrs Piper's phenomena. For he is known
to have had views about their interpretation which he intended to
write about, but of which he left no record. We can only say that at
the time of his death he held to the conviction, slowly come to and
expressed in his second paper about her (vol. xiii), that there was
through her, at times, communication with the dead.
We have been following Mrs Piper over many years of the Society's
life, and I must now return to the earlier days. Phantasms of the
Livi'ng, by Gurney, Myers and Podmore, and especially Gurney,
which sums up the most important results of the Society's earliest
work, was, as I have said, published in 1886. In July 1888—the
Society's seventh year—an irreparable loss befell it in Gurney's
death, causing, as Sidgwick said in a Presidential Address on 16
July 1888 {Proceedings, v. 271), a chasm between its past and its
future work by " depriving us of the colleague and friend who had so
large a part in shaping the lines of this past ... I shall speak " he
continues, " of '
our '
work, but it will be present to your minds as to
mine how largely this is the work of a vanished hand—a hand whose
combined vigour and delicacy, and trained skill and indefatigable
industry, we must miss at every turn of the further labour that lies
before us. , .
." Gurney was really giving his life to psychical re-
search, treating it as a whole time job. He was delightful to work
with, keenly interested practically and theoretically, and he brought
to the work, as Myers says in an essay on him and his work {Proceed-
ings, V. 371), " a temper of which the leading notes were disinterested-
ness, precision, sympathy."
12 Mrs Henry Sidgwich [part
Gurney had been Honorary Secretary of the Society from 1883 on-
wards and also Editor. Myers and Podmore now jointly undertook
the duties of the former position, and Sidgwick the Editorship.
The subject of mesmerism or hypnotism was, it will be remem-
bered, one of those the Society set out to examine, and this, on the
psychological side, Gurney had made his own. Some eight papers by
him concerned with hypnotism will be found in Proceedings, vols, ii,
iii, iv and v, and his work on the subject was original and much
appreciated. I do not think Gurney hypnotised his subjects himself.
Certainly he did not generally do so, but entrusted the actual hyp-
notising to Mr G. A. Smith (for some time his private secretary)
while he himself directed and observed the experiments. Mr Smith,
when we first knew him, used to give successful public entertain-
ments as a mesmerist, obtaining subjects by simply inviting people
in the audience to come on to the platform to assist. He thus got
into touch with young men suitable both for Gurney's experiments
in hypnotism, and for thought-transference experiments.
Entertainments such as Mr Smith's were not uncommon in those
days, though now I think entirely abandoned, hypnotism being
quite properly no longer regarded as a subject to play with. It is for-
tunate, however, that in the eighties and early nineties, it was more
possible through these entertainments than now to find healthy
people hypnotisable and available for telepathic experiments. With-
out them I do not think we could have done as much as was done for
psychical research, though whether hypnosis is in itself a condition
favourable to telepathic receptiveness, or whether it merely prevents
boredom and inattention in a series of monotonous experiments, I do
not know.
Before the end of the last century hypnotism had passed from the
hands of the S.P.R. to those of the medical profession, and we as a
Society have done little systematic work on it since then. It was of
course, however, treated of by Myers in his book Human Personality,
and we have published in Proceedings various interesting papers and
reviews concerning it by, e.g. Dr Milne Bramwell in vol. xii and by Dr
T. W. Mitchell in vol. xxiv.
I think the so-called Census of Hallucinations may be regarded as
the next big piece of work undertaken under the auspices of the
Society. The authors of Phantasms of the Living had felt it necessary
in arguing against the theory of chance-coincidence as an explana-
tion of apparitions prima facie veridical, to try to estimate the pro-
portion of the population which has the experience of seeing a recog-
nised apparition and the proportion of these cases in which the ap-
parition was veridical. In order to arrive at this Gurney himself
attempted a census and succeeded in obtaining answers from about
5700 persons as to whether they had ever seen an apparition. But since
126] The Society for Psychical Research 13
veridical apparitions are rare and 5700 was too small a number of
answers from which to draw inferences directly as to the proportion
of apparitions which are veridical, Gurney had wished that a more
extensive inquiry should be undertaken, and this was accordingly
started in April 1889 (see Journal for April 1889). It was sanguinely
hoped by the promoters of this efiort that 50,000 answers might be
obtained. But statistical investigations of this kind are more
difficult and more laborious than the committee had realised, and in
the end owing to the reluctance of some to undertake the trouble of
collecting and of others to give information, they had to be content
with 17,000 answers collected by 410 collectors.
In August 1889 there was an International Congress of Experi-
mental Psychology at Paris, under the Presidency of Professor Ribot
and with Professor Richet as secretary, in which Members of the
S.P.R. took part. The Congress interested itself in the proposed
census, and under its influence it was decided to widen the scope of the
inquiry and bring out other facts which the investigation might
reveal about hallucinations, besides the numerical relation between
those that are veridical and those that are not. It was also decided
that the inquiry should be international, and Sidgwick was charged
by the Congress with the general superintendence of the investiga-
tion.
In 1892 there was again a Congress of Experimental Psychology,
held this time in London, and to this Congress Sidgwick was able to
present in an abridged form part of the report on the results of the
census. But it was not till 1894 that the final and complete report
could be published in Proceedings, where it occupied the greater part
of vol. X. The cause of delay will be appreciated when it is remem-
bered that among the 17,000 answers to the census question, 2,272
were in the affirmative, and that each of these afiirmative answers
had to be scrutinised as carefully as possible, and a large proportion
of the informants and collectors corresponded with and interviewed
concerning them. A good deal was also done in comparing census
cases with experiences otherwise brought to our notice. I venture to
think that any one interested in hallucinations, veridical or other-
wise, will find the report well worth study. I need hardly add, that
the conclusion already arrived at in Phantasms of the Living, " that
between deaths and apparitions of the dying person a connection
exists which is not due to chance alone " is fully confirmed.
It was in 1897 {Proceedings, vol. xui) that Sir William Barrett
published the first part of his study on the so-called divining-rod
—
the discovery of underground water and metals, etc., by dowsing.
The second part followed in Proceedings, vol. xv. There had been
interesting papers on the subject in volume ii by Professor W. J.
Sollas (as a geologist) and by Mr E. R. Pease and Mr E. Vaughan
14 Mrs Henry Sidgivich [part
Jenkins, but Barrett's two papers give a comprehensive account of
the subject historically, experimentally and practically. He does
not profess to have as yet furnished a complete explanation of the
process from a psychical point of view, though he inclines to think
that the dowser acquires by clairvoyance his knowledge of the
situation of the water sought. At the end of his life—he died in
May 1925—he revised, with the assistance of Mr Theodore Bester-
man, the substance of these two papers, which, with additional
matter, were published after his death in a book entitled The Divin-
ing-Rod : an Experimental and Psychological Investigation, London
1926. His interest in psychical research was widespread, and some-
thing from his pen may be found in our Proceedings concerning almost
every class of subject that the Society has investigated, but it was
dowsing to which he had, I think, devoted most time and attention,
making the subject his own, and to the end he retained the view that
clairvoyance of some sort was probably the explanation.
The turn of the century was a sad epoch for the Society owing to
the death in August 1900 of Henry Sidgwick, its first President and
constant leader and adviser, and the death in January 1901 of
Frederic Myers, its honorary secretary and its President at the time
of his death. Myers's zeal and energy, his remarkable powers of
exposition and readiness in speech, had been an invaluable asset to
the Society, never replaced. He had the subjects of our investiga-
tion so thoroughly in his mind, and I may say at his finger ends, that
he could at a moment's notice give an interesting discourse on almost
any department of our work. The main results of his studies have,
of course, been published in his book Human Personality and its Sur-
vival of Bodily Death, which fortunately he left in an advanced state
for publication. There was, however, still a good deal to do in detail,
and the book did not actually appear before 1903. When it did it
made a greater impression on the public than probably anything
hitherto published in our subject had done. The first edition of
1,000 copieswas exhausted, I believe, within a week or two of publica-
tion, and it undoubtedly gave a great impetus to our work.^
Myers's work as honorary secretary was carried on with energy and
efficiency by his fellow honorary-secretary, Mr J. G. Piddington.
Miss Alice Johnson had been Editor of Proceedings and Journal from
June 1899, and with their help the Society passed safely through the
crisis.
But it was most fortunate for us that Sir Oliver Lodge at that
critical moment consented to accept the Presidency, which he re-
1 Recently a Myers Memorial Lecture has been subscribed for and instituted
in honour of Myers. Its endowment enables the Council to arrange for a lec-
ture periodically, and from time to time to make grants for research work in
connection with it (see Journal, xxvii. 21-2).
126] Thk'^&hc%'s^yl\fpy/P,QycMcdly 15
tained for three years. It is, I think, largely to his influence and the
trouble he took fit ' that time and sijice:t9 keep, us together, and
stimulate, and himssir cotttiib.ute to. 1f.]je.Sbciety":sVwork, that we owe
our continued prosperous existence to the present date.
In 1898 Myers had become acquainted with Mr and Mrs Edmond
Thompson. She had psychic powers and was a trance medium, in
some respects like Mrs Piper, but never a professional medium.
Being interested, however, in spiritualism, she was willing to give
sittings for investigation to suitable persons personally introduced to
her, and some of their records are published in Proceedings, vol. xvii,
where may be found papers by six different witnesses^ with an intro-
ductory one by Sir Oliver Lodge. A further long and important
paper by Mr Piddington " On the Types of Phenomena displayed in
Mrs Thompson's Trance " will be found in Proceedings, vol. xviii.
These papers are a valuable contribution to any study of trance-
mediumship.
It was a few weeks after Myers's death that Mrs A. W. Verrall suc-
ceeded in cultivating in herself the power of automatic writing, in
which she had previously failed. An account by herself of her devel-
opment of automatism up to the end of 1904 and her relations to
other automatists occupies the whole of Proceedings, vol. xx. Mrs
Verrall's success was followed by that of others who with her formed,
from the investigator's point of view, a sort of group. There was her
daughter, now Mrs W. H. Salter ; there was for a short time Mrs
" Forbes " (pseudonym) a friend of hers and of Myers ; Mrs Holland
(pseudonym) who had not known Myers or his friends, but whose
interest in the subject had been stirred by his book Human Per-
sonality and who put herself into communication with Miss Alice
Johnson, then secretary of the Society ; Mrs Willett (pseudonym),
a very important member of the group, and also the " Macs
"
(pseudonym), strangers to us all, who had been obtaining automatic
script on their own account and were drawn into the group in 1908
through reading Miss Johnson's first report on Mrs Holland's
script in Proceedings, vol. xxi. This induced a change in the
character of their own script, which then instructed them to send
it to Mrs Verrall, whom they did not know. After a little hesita-
tion they did so, with striking results (see Proceedings, vol. xxix).
Mrs Wilson came into the group through trying telepathic experi-
ments with Miss Verrall. Then in 1912 Mrs " King " (pseudonym
for Dame Edith Lyttelton) developed automatism after the death
of her husband, the Right Hon. Alfred Lyttelton, and a little
later one or two others also joined. Joined, however, is hardly
the right word, for the group has no cohesion. The members of it
^ Myers, Dr F. van Eeden, Mr Piddington, Hodgson, Miss Alice Johnson,
Mrs A. W. Verrall.
1 6 : /Mf'f_Ee:kiii/ -Sidc^wiQ^
'
."Ci;
[part
do not all know each, other, nor have they met as a group. Nor are
there any special a-rrangesj^e^its: about writi&g. - As, a rule each auto-
matist writes aii the ^ncliRatipp. AX>me,y i,o. her.; sometimes with a
friend present and recording, but more often alone. With a recorder
present the automatic communication is sometimes spoken instead
of written.
It was noticed very shortly by the uivestigators that a sort of tele-
pathic connection seemed to exist between the scripts of the group
—
a tendency to refer independently to the same topic either literally or
cryptically. This we speak of as cross-correspondence. Of course
care was taken that members of the group should not see each other's
scripts, or that when, for any reason they did, an exact record should
as far as possible be kept of what each had seen. The general effect
produced by study of these scripts is that some intelligence behind
the communications is acting by design and to some extent inspires
the scripts though not always able to avoid confusion. The
supposed communicator when named, as he often is in the earlier
years of these scripts, is usually Myers or Gurney, though other
names appear.
Unfortunately much of the contents of these scripts is too private
for present publication, but a good deal has been published and may
be studied in one or more papers in each of the following volumes of
Proceedings : xx, xxi, xxii, xxiv, xxv, xxvi, xxvii, xxix, xxxiii, xxxvi.
Among these papers are to be found general reports on the scripts
of some of the automatists in question, particular instances of cross-
correspondence (including experimental attempts at cross-corres-
pondence between the group and Mrs Piper), also reports on com-
munication on special subjects, as " Some Recent Scripts affording
Evidence of Personal Survival " in vol. xxvii ;
" The Ear of Diony-
sius " in vol. xxix ;
" Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War," vol.
xxxiii ;
" One Crowded Hour of Glorious Life " and " The Master
Builder," both these last in vol. xxxvi. These scripts are very full of
literary allusions, the writers being cultivated persons with strong
literary interests. All the members of the group make a practice of
sending their scripts to Mr Gerald Balfour or Mr Piddington, by
whom they are carefully studied and annotated and preserved.
Of late years the rate of reception and number received has much
diminished. Mrs Verrall, from whom many scripts came, died in
1916, and other members of the group have ceased writing auto-
matically. Others write but seldom, though the receipt of further
scripts from them, even after long intervals, would not surprise the
investigators. The evidence from the whole set of scripts of this
group on the side of survival and of communication at times between
the living and the dead, is certainly strong—I think the strongest we
have published. I believe this is felt by all who have studied them
126] The Society for Psychical Research 17
with care. But it would be stronger for the public if we could pub-
lish the whole.
We have another automatist among our workers—Mr S. G. Soal
—
whose script shows no connection with that of the group of whom I
have been speaking, k report by himself and Mr W. H. Salter on
his automatic scripts purporting to be inspired by Margaret Veley, a
poet and novelist of some fifty years ago, which are to a considerable
extent verifiable and true, is published in Proceedings, vol. xxxviii.
Mr Soal had previously published elsewhere, imder the name of Mr V,
script purporting to come from Oscar Wilde. Of this a review entitled
" The Oscar Wilde Scripts " will be found in Proceedings, vol. xxxiv.
To return to trance mediums. The last I spoke of at any length
was Mrs Thompson. More recently much study has been given to the
mediumship of Mrs Osborne Leonard and various papers on the sub-
ject have been published by the S.P.R. The first paper published
was an important study and record of a series of sittings with her by
Miss Radclyffe Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge, in Proceedings, vol.
XXX. There have been further general reports on sittings with her in
vols, xxxii and xxxvi by Mrs Salter. There have also been papers
concerning her on " The Modus Operandi in Mediumistic Trance " by
Una, Lady Troubridge in Proceedings, vols, xxxii and xxxiv and by
Mr Drayton Thomas in vol. xxxviii, and on " Some Licidents at
Sittings with Mrs Leonard which may throw light on the modus
operandi " by Mrs Salter, Proceedings, vol. xxxix.
There has also been a good deal of investigation as to the evidence
for book-tests, which are rather a speciality of Mrs Leonard's medium-
ship. In a typical book-test the Communicator will tell the sitter to
look on a specified page of a book, in a particular place on a certain
shelf in a room, perhaps unknown to either medium or sitter, and
then to find a reference to some specified subject. If this turns out
to be correct and the coincidence is not clue to chance, it would seem
to afford evidence of knowledge acquired neither through the senses
nor telepathically, but clairvoyantly. This is important, as definite
evidence of the reality of clairvoyance has hitherto been scanty. Un-
fortunately the book-tests given do not always turn out to be fully or
even partially correct, and they are apt to exhibit a certain vague-
ness which makes it difficult to estimate their value, especially as the
probability of success cannot be calculated with exactness as in the
case of the guessing of cards or numbers. An examination of book-
tests (by me) appears in Proceedings, vol. xxxi, and as already said
(p. 10 footnote) two papers on the " Element of Chance in Book-
tests " have appeared in vols, xxxiii and xl. The last of these, by
Mr Theodore Besterman, is the more extensive and ambitious, but
both bring out a result against chance-coincidence being a sufficient
explanation of Mrs Leonard's book-tests.
B
18 Mrs Henry Sidgwick [part
In Proceedings, vol. xxxv, is an important report sent to us by
Mr S. G. Soal, on a series of communications received by him through
a professional medium, Mrs Blanche Cooper, with whom he had
sittings at the British College for Psychic Science. An interesting
feature in this series is that one of the alleged Communicators, an old
schoolfellow of Mr Soal's, communicating as a dead man, proved
afterwards to have been alive all the time, though entirely uncon-
scious of any communication. Moreover at the seances veridical
statements were made concerning this gentleman's past, his present,
and even his future, e.g. the arrangement of a house not then in his
possession. There are other interesting experiments and observa-
tions described by Mr Soal in the course of this paper.
A series of 142 sittings were held under arrangements made by the
Society with another trance medium, Mrs Warren Elliott in 1926, and
were reported on by Mr H. F. Saltmarsh in Proceedings, vol. xxxix.
" The Primary object of the experiment was to attempt to throw
light on the psychological mechanism of trance mediumship." The
report is of great interest, and for the possibility of carrying the
experiment through, the Society owes gratitude not only to a generous
anonymous donor, but to Mrs Warren Elliott herself for her willing
co-operation. In the course of the experiment sittings were held with
a view to eliciting communications for various particular persons who
were not however present and were not aware that the sitting was
taking place. No one was present except the medium and a note-
taker. To make a link with the absent sitter, an object belonging to
him or her was brought by the notetaker, who, however, was unaware
to whom it belonged. The possibility of direct thought-transference
with anyone present was thus eliminated.
In this connection " The Tony Burman case " by Miss Nea Walker,
also in Proceedings, vol. xxxix, should be considered.
Among the departments of psychical research which in 1882 our
Society proposed to investigate, that of the physical phenomena of
spiritualism is the one as to which, notwithstanding repeated efforts,
least evidence of genuineness has, as it seems to me, been found in this
or in any other country. But I must briefly refer to our experience in
this department. I have already mentioned the evidence obtained in
the early days of the Society concerning Eglinton, the slate-writing
medium, and the conclusion that his performances were tricks.
In 1891 we became acquainted with a gentleman—a near relation
of friends of some of us—who professed to be able to levitate tables
without touching them except on the upper surface. We took a good
deal of trouble about the case, which ultimately proved to be one of
pure deception throughout. The supposed medium was a professional
man in a good position and there was no pecuniary motive to deceive.
I fancy it amused him at first. Sidgwick gave an account of the
126] The Society for Psychical Research 19
case at a meeting of the Society in 1894 under the title " Disinterested
Deception ", which is printed in the Journal, vi. 275.
Deception by friends and acquaintances is of course peculiarly
painful, but apart from cases of the " poltergeist " order where the
performers are often children and sometimes not quite normal ones,
we have not encountered much trickery^ in the course of our investi-
gations except with professional mediums for physical phenomena,
among whom it is unfortunately common. Several cases of detec-
tion have been recorded in the Journal. See Journal, xii (1905-6), for
exposures of Chambers, of Craddock and of Eldred ;
Journal, xiv, for
exposure of Carancini—an Italian medium whom we invited to this
country for investigation ; and Journal, xv, for an exposure at our
Rooms of Charles Bailey, an Australian medium. Mr Everard
Feilding, in Journal, xii. 162, described under the title " The Haunted
Solicitor, an unfinished comedy ", a case which he carefully examined
on the spot and spent considerable time over, and afterwards re-
ported at a meeting of the Society. He classes it as a poltergeist case,
but grown-up people were concerned and trickery and conspiracy
there certainly were.
" A Report on Various Spiritualist Phenomena " by the late
Lieut-Colonel Taylor, for long a Member of the S.P.R. Council, was
contributed by him to Proceedings, vol. xix. It is an account of six
incidents at sittings between 1884 and 1904 of which four include
raps or movements of objects. They are selected from his own ex-
periences and were regarded by him as genuine, and the account is
based on notes written by him within a few hours of the incidents.
Colonel Taylor, who died in 1911, was a good observer, and this
report, like the first report by Mr Feilding and Mr Baggally on
Eusapia Palladino to which I am about to refer, must weigh on the
positive side for the genuineness of some physical phenomena of
spiritualism.
In 1906 Miss Alice Johnson, then our Research Officer, visited
Denver in the U.S.A. at the invitation of Dr Gower, a member of the
Society, who resided there, in order to have a series of sittings in a
private circle of friends of his, who received her most hospitably.
The phenomena, movements of tables without apparent contact
and raps, which she witnessed were interesting and striking, but
less so, in Dr Gower's view, than what he had witnessed with the
same friends in previous years. Miss Johnson unfortunately did not
^ There was one case published in Phantasms of the Living later discovered to
have been fictitious (see Proceedings, vol. xiv 14). There is also a rather heart-
less and elaborate case of fictitioiis messages in a private circle (see Journal,
xxi 306) under the title " A Fictitious Communicator." The case was reported
to us, and members of our staff were able to assist the victims to discover and
expose the deception.
20 Mrs Henry Sidgivick [part
witness them under what seemed to her crucial conditions. She •
believed in the honest intentions of all concerned, but in conclusion
could only say that it appeared to her " impossible to form any
decided judgment on the facts . . . and unprofitable to speculate
further about them till we can obtain more decisive evidence one
way or the other ". For her report on the whole case see Proceed-
ings, vol. xxi. 94.
In 1894 Eusapia Palladino was a leading medium on the continent,
especially for telekinesis. Professor Richet invited Sir Oliver Lodge
and Myers to meet her at his house in the south of France, and Sir
Oliver obtained phenomena (described in the Journal, vol. vi) in
circumstances which convinced him they were genuine, and I think
he has never wavered since. Professor Sidgwick and I joined the
party later and what we witnessed was certainly remarkable, though
there were suspicious circumstances. Myers invited Eusapia to
Cambridge for a series of sittings in 1895, but practically all that
happened at these was detected as trickery (see Journal, vol. vii),
and for a time we experimented no more with her.
Sidgwick, all the time he had to do with the Society, took the view
that if a medium were found consciously tricking no further investi-
gation with him or her should take place, its continuance being a
direct encouragement to fraud and a hindrance to progress in re-
search. However, this view was not shared by all Members of the
Council, and reports of Eusapia from abroad continuing favourable,
a Committee consisting of Mr Everard Feilding and Mr Baggally
(both Members of the S.P.R. Council), and Mr Carrington (officially
connected with the American Society) was sent in 1908 to Naples,
where Eusapia lived, to look into the matter again. They had a
series of sittings under what they considered very satisfactory con-
ditions. Their favourable and able report was published in Proceed-
ings, vol. xxiii. Unfortunately for Eusapia's reputation, however,
some further sittings conducted by Mr Feilding and others at Naples
in 1910 were again apparently pure trickery (see Proceedings,
vol. xxv).
In 1920 an attempt was made to get satisfactory evidence with
"
the celebrated French materialising medium called Eva C. (otherwise
Marthe Beraud). She and the lady with whom she lived, Mme Bisson,
were invited to London by the Society, and she gave us a series of
forty sittings, reported on in Proceedings, vol. xxxii. (An account of
the previous history of Marthe Beraud based on the many published
reports of her materialisations, etc., was compiled by Mrs Salter, then
Miss Verrall, and published in Proceedings, vol. xxvii). The Society's
own investigations were unfortunately inconclusive. The pheno-
mena observed were, so the investigating committee reported, " few
in number and poor in quality ", and, they say, " If we had not been
126] The Society for Psychical Research 21
acquainted with tlie work of previous investigators/ we might have
felt inclined to di-aw negative conclusions from our own observa-
tions " (Proceedings, vol. xxxii 332).
In the Journal, xx, is the report received from Mr Harry Price
of his well-known experiment with Mr Hope the " spirit-photogra-
pher " at a sitting held at the British College of Psychic Science. An
outcome of this and of the discussion that followed, was the offer by
Mr H. W.Pugh in June 1922, to contribute £100 towards an investiga-
tion by the Society of Mr Hope under conditions laid down by him
(Mr Pugh). Mr Hope and his coadjutor, Mrs Buxton (called " the
Crewe circle ") consented. All seemed satisfactorily arranged. Mr
Hope's representatives on the investigatiug committee had been
selected and an agreement drawn up and signed by them, when the
Crewe circle withdrew from the arrangements and the investigation
therefore never took place (see Journal, xxi. 111.)
In 1924 the Austrian medium, AVilly Schneider, was invited to
London and gave twelve sittings for telekinetic phenomena, under
the management of Dr WooUey and Mr Dingwall, in the S.P.R.
seance-room. They were reported on by Mr Dingwall in Proceedings,
vol. xxxvi. . Phenomena occurred at eight of the twelve sittings,
some of which, though they were inferior ia quality to those pre-
viously witnessed by Mr Dingwall in Dr von Schrenck-Notzmg's
laboratory at Munich {Proceedings, xxxvi. 33), impressed the experi-
menters as normally inexplicable.
Another investigation of physical phenomena carried out in our
seance-room by Dr WooUey and Mr Dingwall was with Mr Janus
Fronczek of Poland. The report on this is also published in Proceed-
ings, vol. xxxvi, and must be regarded as negative. I need not here
go iato details.
In the winter of 1924-25, Mr Dingwall went to Boston, U.S.A., for
the purpose of having a series of sittings with Mrs Crandon {Mar-
gery) . His going was generously facilitated by Mrs Augustus Hemen-
way of Boston. He had twenty-nine sittings, carefully described in
his report in Proceedings, vol. xxxvi. His failure, however, to obtain
phenomena under conditions as good, in his opinion, as those ob-
tained, e.g. in the case of Willy Schneider, evidently left him with
grave doubts as to the genuineness of the performance {Proceedings,
xxxvi. 153).^
1 [Recent disclosures, it must be remarked, have made it appear that less
weight can be attached to the work of these investigators than was thought at
the time this report was pubhshed.]
2 A propos of this it may be mentioned that in 1929 Dr Crandon borrowed our
seance-ioom. for purposes of demonstration of some of Margery's phenomena.
Our honorary research officer, Dr WooUey, attended the demonstrations as an
observer onlj-. It was proposed to obtain finger prints in dental wax of
22 Mrs Henry Sidgwick [part
In 1928 Mr Besterman undertook a four months' tour chiefly in
central Europe, largely financed by an anonymous donor, for the
purpose of observing mediums and making acquaintance with
investigators. His report will be found in Proceedings, xxxviii.
409-80. Among the fourteen mediums or psychics on whom he re-
ported several professed to be mediums for physical phenomena, but
of these he only had the opportunity of observing sufficiently to
report in the case of three—two mediums at Budapest and the well-
known Frau Maria Silbert of Graz—and unfortunately in each case
what he observed seemed definitely to prove trickery.
I think this completes the list of investigations into the physical
phenomena of spiritualism which have been described in our Pro-
ceedings or Journal. But of course there have been other attempts
by members of the Council or offi.cers of the Society, or others, too
inconclusive or futile to be worth printing accounts of. I do not
wish to give the impression that everything we hear about is pub-
lished. I am afraid that as it is many will feel that the time, trouble
and expense involved in examining this class of phenomena has left
us very much in the same position regarding it as we were fifty years
ago. There are now, as there were then, a few observations recorded
where it is difficult to believe that the investigators were deceived,
and many where deception or the attempt to deceive is practically
certain. The methods now employed by mediums for physical
phenomena are no doubt somewhat different from what they were in
the early days of the Society, but any change is not, I think, in the
direction of making satisfactory investigation easier.
A laborious line of investigation to which much time and trouble
has recently been devoted, is what we may call mass-experiments—
intended in the first place to discover whether such psychic faculties
as telepathy and clairvoyance are at all widely distributed in however
slight a degree, and in the second place possibly to reveal good per-
cipients.
An experiment of this kind in telepathy was made by Dr WooUey
with the kind assistance of the B.B.C. on 16 February 1927, and is
described in Proceedings, vol. xxxviii under the title " The Broad-
casting Experiment in Mass Telepathy ". He assembled a small
group of agents at the Society's office who endeavoured to transmit
telepathically ideas and images selected by him, and listeners-in
were asked to record what ideas came to them, and post the record to
deceased or absent persons. Margery^ s forearms were bound to her chair by a
method carefully described, but Dr Woolley's observation, and subsequent
experiments with Mrs Brackenbury acting the part of medium, showed that
the method of controlling the arms used was less effective than it was supposed
to be, and in fact would not have prevented the handling by the medium of
objects on the table {Proceedings, xxxix. 359 £F.).
126] The Society for Psychical Research 23
the Society. Sir Oliver Lodge acted frora the B.B.C. office as announ-
cer to inform the listeners when each attempt at transmission was
beginning. The number of items which the agents endeavoured to
transmit was five, looked at successively at intervals of five minutes.
The number of listeners who sent in reports of their impressions was
24,650. Unfortunately the result must, on the whole, be regarded as
negative—that is as not furnishing evidence of widespread telepathic
faculty under the given conditions. It has, however, revealed some
interesting results from a psychological point of view, e.g. as regards
number habits.
What may be regarded as a continuation of the " broadcasting
"
experiment has been carried out by Mr S. G. Soal (see " Experiments
in Supernormal Perception at a Distance ", Proceedings, vol. xl)
assisted by Mr and Mrs Fernald, Professor and Mrs Mackenzie, Mr
Odell, Miss Carruthers and others too numerous to be named here.
To begin with, he selected those who seemed most promising as per-
cipients among those who had sent in replies in the broadcasting
experiment. For these experiments and a discussion of various pre-
vious experiments, see Part I of Mr Soal's paper. After this first year
of experiment he decided to widen the scope and succeeded in arrang-
ing to work with some 579 percipients. " No such body of perci-
pients has ever in the history of psychical research taken part in
experiments extending over such a prolonged period as six months,"
Mr Soal tells us. The subjects to be transferred were now more-
over limited to material adapted to statistical computation. Un-
fortunately, though in both parts of Mr Soal's experiments there was
a small residuum of results suggestive of supernormality, the coinci-
dences obtained were not sufficiently striking or detailed to compel
belief in the operation of a supernormal faculty. Investigations
of this kind are very laborious and time-taking, and it is therefore
the more disappointing that the result of the inquiry should be
negative. It must not be supposed, however, that the work done
is useless. The negative answer to the inquiry is itself of course of
great importance, and Mr Soal's careful study and analysis suggest
various points of psychological interest.
Miss Ina Jephson has attempted similar mass experiments in
clairvoyance and published an interesting paper on them in Pro-
ceedings, vol. xxxviii. There appeared to be some success, but as
she is carrying the experiments further under different conditions I
need not go into particulars now.
Reports of experiments such as these do not provide light reading
or thrillmg sensations ; but they are obviously of great importance
because of the light they throw, or may throw, on the problems be-
fore us—and much more light than we yet have is required before we
can claim to understand, e.g. either telepathy or clairvoyance, and
24 Mrs Henry Sidgwick [part
the conditions under which they occur. If knowledge reaches an
autoiuatist (or shall we say more generally a sensitive ?) supernor-
mally, how and whence does it come ? We have made some pro-
gress. We have, I thinlv, convinced most of those who have really
studied the evidence we have collected, that telepathy exists. That
is a very big step. But it may be a long time before we can decisively
take the next step, whatever that may be, and in the meanwhile we
can only go on examining and analysing any facts and experiences,
spontaneous or experimental, that come our way, and be cautious in
adopting hasty assumptions to explain them. There is comparatively
little of theory in our publications so far, and general philosophical
speculation is, I think, almost confined to some of our Presidential
Addresses.
We are proud of our Presidents and have been fortunate in the
men who have honoured our Society by presiding over it. I will not
give a complete list but may say that besides those I have already
mentioned as founders, we have had Professor Balfour Stewart
F.R.S., the late Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., Sir William Crookes,
O.M., F.R.S., Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.—all distinguished in physical
science ;
the late Earl of Balfour, K.G., O.M., Professor William
James, Professor Henri Bergson, and Dr F. C. S. Schiller among
philosophers ; Professor Charles Richet, and Professor Hans Driesch
among biologists ; and Professor William James, Dr William Mc-
Dougall and Dr T. W. Mitchell among psychologists. And as many
others important in various ways and all helpful in our work and
interested in the Society. All the Addresses they delivered will be
found in our Proceedings.
It will be realised by anyone conversant with our Proceedings and
Journal that in this brief account of the history and activities of the
S.P.R. I have given a general sketch rather than any complete
story. Thus I have omitted mention of many important workers
and important papers.
^
1 For instance I have said nothing about crystal-gazing—an important sub-
ject because it appears to be, with some people, a ready method of inducing
hallucinatory visions which may turn out to be telepathic or clairvoyant (see a
paper by Miss X, Rliss Goodrich Freer, Proceedings, vol. v and other references,
especially by Andi-ew Lang). Nor again have I referred to phenomena of
Multiple Personahty (see the Ansel Bourne case by Hodgson, Proceedings, voL
vu ;
a paper by Dr Morton Prince, Proceedings, vol. xv and by Dr T. W.
Mitchell, Proceedings, vol. xxvi). The subject of the " Appreciation of Time
by Somnambules " experimented on by Professor Delboeuf and Dr T. W.
Mitchell {Proceedings, vol. xxi) and others, is also interesting. And I have not
mentioned Mr A. T. Fryer's account of the Welsh Revival {Proceedings, vol.
xix) nor a study of dreams by Dr F. van Eeden {Proceedings, vol. xxvi) and
papers by others on this subject, and by Mrs Leaning {Proceedings, vol. xxxv)
on hypnagogic phenomena. And there are other important papers, long and
short, in Proceediiigs and Journal which might have been mentioned. I^ave
126] The Society for Psychical Research 25
My reason for such omissions is merely tliat one cannot within
reasonable bounds call attention to everything, and my selection has
been roughly guided by the list of subjects for investigation published
in our early circulars. Nor do I profess even within that list of topics
to have called attention to all that we have published . I shall feel
that it has been worth while compiling this summary if it should lead
any one interested in our subjects to explore the information and
discussion concerning them to be found in our Journal and Proceed-
ings, and especially if it should lead to any one pursuing any branch
of investigation further. I think I may say without boasting that
our Proceedings will stand examination. The reader will very seldom
find that a statement or judgment has been published which after-
wards has had to be withdrawn ; for we have always tried to be care-
ful and cautious both in accepting facts and drawing inferences, and
have endeavoured to make each step secure as we go along. Of
course similar care is wanted in all scientific work, but ours has
special difficulties of its own. We are pioneers sailing as it were on an
uncharted sea and liable at any moment to come on hidden difficul-
ties and obstacles. And one of these is the apparent rarity of the
human subjects who possess the psychic faculties we are trying to
investigate. This makes it very difiicult to repeat observations or
experiments as much as is required to confirm them and to enable us
to understand them better than we do.
My friends tell me that I ought not to end my tale without saymg
what impression this retrospective survey of the Society's fifty years
of life and work—work in which I have shared—produces on my own
mind. I may say at once without hesitation that I feel now as I felt
when I first engaged in it, before the foundation of the Society, that
ours is some of the most important work in which we can engage for
the extension of knowledge and the benefit of mankind. And it is
work in which the support and help of the Society has been and is of
great value, for it acts as a centre through which interest in the sub-
ject may spread and knowledge of it accimiulate. Some 'complain
that our progress is slow. The term is relative and we can certainly
imagine progress quicker, but whether we ever had reason to expect
it to be quicker considering the obstacles that beset investigation is
another question.
I think it is probable that if more people of sense and intelligence
tried what they can do, more cases of psychic faculty, e.g. telepathy,
might be observed, and more learnt about conditions favourable to
it. There are indications, I thmk, that telepathy is, as it were, the
also not mentioned a number of papers and reports relating to alleged super-
normal phenomena among Eastern and uncivilized peoples ; a list of these is
given in Proceedings, xxxviii. 222.
26 Mrs Henry Sidgwick [part 126]
key, or a key, to other branches of our research. If for instance there
is, as I believe, occasional communication of an evidential kind
between the living and the dead—and some good evidence supporting
this has been published in our Proceedings—it is probably telepathic.
Clairvoyance again—that is perception of material objects other-
wise than through the senses—is thought by some to be probably akin
to telepathy ;
and of the existence of clairvoyance evidence also
seems to be accumulating. If I may be allowed to prophesy, I should
say that with patience and perseverance—and little good work has
been done in the world without these two qualities—we shall add to
the evidence in at least these three departments, namely telepathy
between the living (established in my opinion as a fact though there
is still much to learn about it), communication with the dead, and
clairvoyance, and probably in others.
And I look to our Society to continue this work with coiirage and
hope, undismayed by the difficulties in the way of progress. If it is
continued in the same spirit in which the S.P.R. has so far carried it
on, valuable success will, I feel sure, be its reward.
After reading the above paper Lord Balfour added : That con-
cludes the Address of your President of Honour. May I be allowed,
before we separate, to add one or two sentences of my own 1 Some
of you may have felt that the note of caution and reserve has pos-
sibly been over-emphasised in Mrs Sidgwick "s paper. If so, they
may be glad to hear what I am about to say. Conclusive proof of
survival is notoriously difficult to obtain. But the evidence may
be such as to produce belief, even though it fall short of conclusive
proof. I have Mrs Sidgwick's assurance—an assurance which I am
permitted to convey to the meeting—that, upon the evidence before
her, she herself is a firm believer both in survival and in the reality
of communication between the living and the dead."
APPENDIX
CLASSIFIED LIST OF THE CONTENTS OF THE SOCIETY'S
PROCEEDINGS AND JOURNAL TO JUNE 1932
The scope of psychical research is too undefined to allow of a strictly
logical classification. The method here adopted, and set out below,
is that likely to be most useful to the student. Considerations of
space have made it impossible to enter any item more than once and
there is therefore a good deal of overlapping, as for instance between
Automatisms and Cross-Correspondences. The order of the entries
within each section is sufiiciently chronological for practical pur-
poses ; as two distinct periodicals are involved an exact chronological
sequence is impossible. The following classes of material are as a
general rule excluded : classified cases, reprints from other sources,
very short contributions, reviews, obituaries, and business notices.
Abbreviations: V. = Proceedings ;
3.= Journal. Th.B.
I. General
i. General
ii. Theoretical
iii. Historical and Anthropological
iv. Miscellaneous
II. Mental Phenomena
i. General
ii. Automatisms
a. General
h. Cross-Correspondences
iii. Book-tests
iv. Clairvoyance
V. Premonitions
vi. Scrying
vii. Telepathy
a. General and Miscellaneous
h. Theoretical
c. Spontaneous
d. Experimental
28 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
viii. Trance Mediumship
a. General and Theoretical
h. Mrs Leonard
c. Mrs Piper
d. Mrs Thompson
III. Intermediate Phenomena
i. Apparitions
ii. Poltergeists and Hauntings
iii. Dowsing
IV. Physical Phenomena
i. General and Theoretical
ii. Slate-writing
iii. Spirit Photography
IV. Marthe Beraud (Eva C.)
V. Mrs Crandon (Margery)
vi. D.D. Home
vii. Eusapia Palladino
viii. Miscellaneous Phenomena and Mediums
V. Psychology
i. General and Miscellaneous
ii. Dreams
iii. Hallucinations
iv. Hypnotism and Suggestion
V. Multiple Personality
vi. Psychotherapy
vii. The Subconscious
I. General
i. General
H. Sidgwick, [Presidential Address], P. i. 7-12.
H. Sidgwick, [Presidential Address], P. i. 65-9.
H. Sidgwick, [Presidential Address], P. i. 245-50.
S.P.R., Circular No. 1 [General survey], P. i. pp. i-viii.
H. Sidgwick, [Presidential Address], P. ii. 152-6.
W. F. Barrett, The Prospects of Psychical Research in America,
J. i. 172-8.
W. Davies and F. W. H. Myers, Notes on Reports of the Society for
Psychical Research, J. i. 400-16.
Balfour Stewart, [Presidential Address], P. iii. 64-8.
American Society for Psychical Research, J. i. 265-74.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 29
Balfour Stewart, [Presidential Address], P. iv. 262-7.
J. G. Keulemans, Professional Mediumship, J. iii. 120-8, 170-3,
209-11.
H. B. Smith, On a Series of Experiments at Pesaro, P. v. 549-65.
H. Sidgwick, [Presidential Address], P. v. 271-8.
H. Sidgwick, [Presidential Address], P. v. 399-402.
Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, [Presidential Address], p. x. 2-13.
F. W. H. Myers, The Experiences of W. Stainton-Moses, P. ix. 245-
353 ; P. xi. 24-113.
W. James, [Presidential Address], P. xii. 2-10.
H. Gale, Psychical Research in American Universities, P. xiii. 583-8.
A. Alexander, Supernormal Phenomena observed during Hypnotic
Treatment by Dr Alfredo Barcellos, of Rio de Janeiro, J. viii.
88-95, 99-116.
F. W. H. Myers, Presidential Address, P. xv. 110-27.
F. C. S. Schiller, The Future of the S.P.R., J. x. 74-7.
Address by the Council to the Members and Associates of the Society
for Psychical Research, J. x. 85-92.
F. Podmore, F. W. H. Mvers and the Society for Psychical Research,
P. xvii. 29-32.
Sir 0. Lodge, Presidential Address, P. xviii. 1-21.
Lieut. -Col G. L. Le M. Taylor, Report on Various Spiritualistic
Phenomena, P. xix. 50-61.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Presidential Address, P. xxii. 1-18.
Sir 0. Lodge, Address to the Dublin Section of the S.P.R., J. xiii.
318-24.
A. Lang, Presidential Address, P. xxv. 364-76.
M. Sage, A French View of the S.P.R., J. xv. 3-12.
Gilbert Murray, Presidential Address, P. xxix. 46-63.
Lord Rayleigh, Presidential Address, P. xxx. 275-90.
G. E. Wright, Some Impressions of a New Associate, J. xix. 208-20.
Mrs W. H. Salter, The First International Congress for Psychical
Research, J. xx. 175-9.
C. Flammarion, Discours Presidentiel, P. xxxiv. 1-27.
Sir W. F. Barrett, An Early Psychical Research Society, J. xxi.
67-71.
Sir W. F. Barrett, Concerning Professor Richet's " Thirty Years of
Psychical Research," J. xxi. 139-43.
The Second International Congress of Psychical Research, J. xxi.
152-6.
Sir W. Barrett, Some Reminiscences of Fifty Years' Psychical Re-
search, P. xxxiv. 275-97.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, The Objects of the Society, J. xxiv. 30-2.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, The Paris Congress for Psychical
Research, J. xxiv. 132-8.
30 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
Sir L. J. Jones, Presidential Address, P. xxxviii. 17-48.
Th. Besterman, Report of a Four Months' Tour of Psychical In-
vestigation, P. xxxviii. 409-80.
W. F. Prince, Presidential Address, P. xxxix. 273-304.
W. H. Salter, The Recent Congress at Athens, J. xxvi. 107-9.
Mrs W. H. Salter, The History of George Valiantine, P. xl. 389-410.
Lord Charles Hope, Report on some Sittings with Valiantine and
Phoenix, P. xl. 411-27.
ii. Theoretical
Balfour Stewart, [Presidential Address], p. ii. 187-8.
F. Y. Edgeworth, The Calculus of Probabilities applied to Psychical
Research, P. iii. 190-9, iv. 189-208.
G. D. Haughton and F. W. H. Myers, On the Method of Research
pursued by the Society, J. ii. 25-32.
H. Sidgwick, The Canons of Evidence in Psychical Research, P. vi. 1-6.
0. Lodge, On the Difficulty of making Crucial Experiments as to the
Source of the Extra or Unusual Intelligence manifested in
Trance-Speech, Automatic Writing, and other States of ap-
parent Mental Inactivity, P. x. 14-24.
C. H. Tout, Some Psychical Phenomena bearing upon the Question
of Spirit Control, P. xi. 309-16.
T. Barkworth, 0. J. Lodge, and others, Spiritistic Horseplay,
'
J. vi. 200-7, 214-23, 232-7, 251-6, 265-72.
[A. Goodrich-Freer], On the apparent Source of Subliminal Messages,
P. xi. 114-44.
W. Crookes, [Presidential Address], P. xii. 338-55.
P. Z. Herbert, Criticism of Various Oases reported in the Journal of
the Society for Psychical Research, J. viii. 159-61, 173-7, 186-92.
C. A. Goodhart and Alice Johnson, The Value of Complex Coinci-
dences, J. viii. 183-4, 207-9, 212.
St G. Lane Fox, F. C. S. Schiller, C. C. Massey, and others, The
"Spirit Hypothesis", J. viii. 184-6, 203-6, 224-5, 231-2, 255-9,
273-7, 296-7.
C. Richet, On the Conditions of Certainty, P. xiv. 152-7.
Alice Johnson, Coincidences, P. xiv. 158-330.
F. C. S. Schiller, Psychology and Psychical Research, P. xiv. 348-65.
F. C. S. Schiller, On some Philosophic Assumptions in the Investiga-
tion of the Problem of a Future Life, P. xv. 53-64.
Sir L. J. Jones, 0. Lodge, F. Podmore, M. de G. Verrall, J. G.
Piddington, and others. On the Attitude of the Society for
Psychical Research towards the Spiritistic Hypothesis, J. x.
121-7, 144, 155-9, 175-6.
0. Lodge, [Presidential Address], P. xvii. 35-57, J. x. 255-6.
126] Society'' s Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 31
A. Lang, " The Nineteenth Century " and Mr Frederic Myers,
P. xviii. 62-77.
W. F. Barrett, [Presidential Address], P. xviii. 323-50.
C. Richet, La Metapsychique, P. xix. 2-49.
Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Presidential Address, P. xix. 373-96.
H. A. Smith, Presidential Address, P. xxiv. 330-50.
Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter, Presidential Address, P. xxvi. 2-23.
H. Bergson, Presidential Address, P. xxvi. 462-79, xxvii. 157-75.
F. C. Constable, Psychical Researchers and the Will to Disbelieve,
J. xvi. 6-14.
F. C. Constable, Personal Survival : the Form of Evidence, J.
xvi. 157-9.
F. C. S. Schiller, Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research, P.
xxvii. 191-220.
J. A. Hill, " Influences " and Survival, J. xvii. 170-4.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, On the Development of different types of Evidence
for Survival in the Work of the Society, P. xxix. 245-59.
L. P. Jacks, The Theory of Survival in the Light of its Context,
P. xxix. 287-305.
L. P. Jacks, On the Evidence for Survival, J. xviii. 122-6.
L. P. Jacks, Sir 0. Lodge, J. H. Hyslop, F. C. S. Schiller, and others.
The Personal Appearance of the Departed as described by Con-
trols, J. xviii. 187-91, 211-25, 235-6, 243-6, J. xix. 24-9, 60-5.
W. W. Smith, A Suggested New Method of Research, P. xxxi. 401-16.
T. W. Mitchell, Presidential Address, P. xxxiii. 1-22.
Sir 0. Lodge, A Text-Book of Metapsychics, P. xxxiv. 70-106.
C. Richet and Sir 0. Lodge, For and Against Survival, P. xxxiv.
107-29, J. xxi. 274-8.
J. G. Piddington, Presidential Address, P. xxxiv. 131-52.
R. A. Fisher, A Method of Scoring Coincidences in tests with Playing
Cards, P. xxxiv. 181-5.
A Fictitious Communicator, J. xxi. 306-14.
C. Richet, Des Conditions de la Certitude, P. xxxv. 422-44.
H. Driesch, Psychical Research and Established Science, P. xxxvi.
171-86.
D. Gow, Human Personalitv and the Proof of Survival, J. xxiv.
200-4.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, On some " Critical " Methods,
J. xxiv. 361-8.
Sir 0. Lodge, On the asserted Difficulty of the Spiritualistic Hypo-
thesis from a Scientific Point of View, P. xxxviii. 481-516.
A. W. Trethewy, " Life beyond Death with Evidence," J. xxv. 50-9.
C. Schroder, Concerning Method in Psychical Investigation, J. xxv.
73-6.
S. G. Soal, The Spiritualistic Hypothesis, J. xxv. 176-9, xxvi. 68-9.
32 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
R. A. Fisher, The Statistical Method in Psychical Research, P,
xxxix. 189-92.
H. F. Saltmarsh and S. G. Soal, A Method of Estimating the Super-
normal Content of Mediumistic Communications, P. xxxix.
266-71.
F. C. S. Schiller, The Spirit-Hypothesis, J. xxvi. 8-9.
H. F. Saltmarsh, Is proof of Survival Possible ?. P. xl. 105-22, 126-8.
Sir 0. Lodge, On the Difficulty of proving Individual Survival,
P. xl. 123-5.
A. W. Trethewy, Personalities of Controls and Communicators bear-
ing Ancient or Unknown Names, J. xxvii. 178-82.
E. 8. Thomas, E. B. Gibbes, and H. F. Saltmarsh, Is Proof of Sur-
vival Possible ?, P. xxvii. 222-4, 241-3, 276-7.
W. H. Salter, The Relation between Parapsychical and Para-
physical Phenomena, J. xxvii. 268-74.
iii. Historical and Anthropological
F. B. Matthews, An Account of an Outbreak of Religious Hallucina-
tion in the Bahamas, West Indies, J. ii. 485-7.
Photograj)hing Indian Conjurers, J. v. 84-6.
R. Hodgson, Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers, P. ix.
354-66.
A. Lang, The voices of Jeanne d'Arc, P. xi. 198-212.
A. Lang, Queen Mary's Diamonds, J. vii. 116-9.
H. A. Smith, Note on " Fisher's Ghost ", P. xiv. 111-4.
Mary H. Kingsley, The Forms of Apparitions in West Africa,
P. xiv. 331-42.
J. S. Part, A Few Notes on Occultism in West Africa, P. xiv. 343-7.
A. R. Wallace, A. Lang and F. Podmore, Clairvoyance and Polter-
geists, J. ix. 22-32, 37-45, 56-7, 91-4.
K. L. Parker, An Australian Witch, J. ix. 69-71.
A. Lang, The Fire Walk, P. xv. 2-15.
H. K. Beauchamp, Fire-Walking Ceremonies in India, J. ix. 312-21.
S. P. Langley, The Fire Walk Ceremony in Tahiti, J. x. 116-21.
A. Lang, Mr Langley on the Fire-Walk, J. x. 132-4.
A. Lang, The Poltergeist, Historically Considered, P. xvii. 305-26,
3.33-6.
F. Podmore, Remarks on Mr Lang's Paper, P. xvii. 327-32.
The Fire-Walk in Mauritius, J. x. 250-3, 296-7.
Sir A. K. Stephenson, Ghost Stories of 100 Years ago, J. xi. 214-20.
A. Lang, The Poltergeist at Cideville, P. xviii. 454-63.
An Account of the Indian Rope-climbing Trick, J. xi. 299-308.
M. Petrovo-Solovovo, Alice Johnson, and others, The Arensburg
Poltergeist, J. xiii. 30-2, 127-8, 144, 158-60.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 33
J. W. Graham, Vision during a State of Coma, J. xiii. 87-90.
W. Leaf, Vis-Knut, P. xxi. 136-48.
F. C. S. Schiller, War Prophecies, J. xvii. 185-92, 199-200.
Rev. H. Thurston, A Sixteenth Century instance of " Elongation ",
J. xix. 51-6.
The Indian Rope-Trick, J. xix. 124-7.
Rev. H. Thurston, The Phenomena of Stigmatization, P. xxxii.
179-208.
C. P. aiiUs, The Were-Tigers of the Assam Hills, J. xx. 381-8.
Th. Besterman, Savage Telepathy, J. xxiii. 2-5.
Gr. W. Lambert, The Psychology of Plotinus, and its Interest to the
Student of Psychical Research, P. xxxvi. 393-413.
The Fire Walk, J. xxiv. 278-84, 325-9.
Th. Besterman, Evocation of the Dead and Kindred Phenomena
among the Natives of Madagascar, P. xxxviii. 209-22.
A. R. Bonus, The Indian Rope-Trick, J. xxv. 179-80.
G. R. M. Millar, Fire-Walking in Perak, J. xxvi. 120-1.
W. F. Prince, The Aetiology of a "Psychical" Legend, J. xxvi.
148-57.
E. R. Dodds, On the Evidence for Supernormal Occurrences in
Classical Antiqiiity, J. xxvii. 216-21.
iv. Miscellaneous
W. F. Barrett, and others, Preliminary Report of the " Reichen-
bach " Committee, P. i. 99-100.
W. F. Barrett, and others, First Report of the " Reichenbach
"
Committee, P. i. 230-7.
W. F. Barrett, Note on the Existence of a " Magnetic Sense P.
ii. 56-60.
R. Hodgson, and others. Report of the Committee appointed to in-
vestigate Phenomena connected with the Theosophical Society,
P. iii. 201-400.
L. Marillier, Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne, P. vii. 100-10.
R. Hodgson, The Defence of the Theosophists, P. ix. 129-59.
F. W. H. Myers, Resolute Credulity, P. xi. 213-34.
F. W. H. Myers, Glossary of Terms used in Psychical Research,
P. xii."l66-74.
A Case of Double Misrecognition, J. x. 303-4.
F. J. M. Stratton and P. Phillips, Some Experiments with the
Sthenometer, J. xii. 335-9, 46.
M. Sage, The Alleged Miraculous Hailstones of Remiremont, P.
xxi. 405-35.
Rev. A. T. Fryer, Luminous Appearances in connection with the
Welsh Revival, J. xiii. 40-2.
c
34 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
P. Joire, On Experiments with the Sthenometer, J. xiii. 44-6.
E. BuUough and V. J. WooUey, The " Thinking " Horses of Elber-
feld, J. xvi. 98-102.
A Case of Stigmatism ?, J. xvi. 225-35, 259-63.
F. C. S. Schiller, On the so-called Thinking Animals, J. xvi. 244-8.
A " Thinking Dog," J. xvii. 99-104.
Mrs W. H. Salter, An Enquiry concerning " The Angels at Mons,"
J. xvii. 106-18.
P. Dearmer, and others, Nomenclature, J. xix. 104-5, 141-3, 180.
Sir 0. Lodge, Testimony to a Child's Impression of Fairies, J. xx.
63-70.
Th. Besterman, Library Catalogue, P. xxxvii. 1-367.
The Case of Theresa Neumann, J. xxiv. 247-55.
Th. Besterman, The Society's Proceedings and Journal in British
Libraries, J. xxiv. 335.
Th. Besterman, Library Catalogue (Supplement 1927-8), P. xxxviii.
101-207.
B. Lee, The Change in the Law of New York relating to Spiritualism,
J. XXV. 173-5.
Th. Besterman, Library Catalogue (Supplement 1928-9), P. xxxix.
193-246.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Resignation, J. xxvi. 45-52.
National Laboratory of Psychical Research, J. xxvi. 157-9.
Th. Besterman, Library Catalogue (Supplement 1929-30), P. xl. 1-58.
II. Mental Phenomena
i. General
C. Richet, Relation de diverses experiences sur la Transmission Men-
tale, la Lucidite, et autres phenomenes non explicables par les
donnees scientifiques actuelles, P. v. 18-168.
[A. Goodrich-Freer], A Record of Telepathic and other Experiences,
P. vi. 358-97.
A. T. Myers, An Account of some Experiments on Thought-Trans-
ference and Independent Clairvoyance at Munich, J. iii. 258-65.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, Some Experiments on the Supernormal Acquisi-
tion of Knowledge, P. xi. 174-97.
A. Le Baron, A case of Psychic Automatism, including " Speaking
with Tongues," P. xii. 277-95.
Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Some recent Cases of Premonition and Tele-
pathy, J. xvii. 126-47, P. xxix. 350-75.
Sir 0. Lodge, Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival, P.
xxix. 111-69.
A. MacLellan, A Group of Psychical Experiences, J. xix. 166-80.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 35
The Case of Miss Nancy Sinclair, J. xx. 294-327.
Case of the Will of James L. Chaffin, P. xxxvi. 517-24.
The Eev. Arthur Ford, J. xxiv. 357-61.
V. J. WooUey, The Visit of M. Pascal Forthuny to the Society in
1929, P. xxxix. 347-57.
ii. Automatisms
a. General
F. W. H. Myers, On a Telepathic Explanation of some so-called
Spiritualistic Phenomena [after Part I title changed to Automatic
Writing], P. ii. 217-37, iii. 1-63, iv. 209-61, v. 522-47.
H. Wedgwood and F. W. H. Myers, Planchette Writing, J. ii. 189-94.
H. Wedgwood, An Interesting Case of Planchette-Writing, J. iv.
174-9.
H. Wedgwood, Information given by Planchette-Writing, J. iv.
208-10.
T. Barkworth, Some Kecent Experiments in Automatic Writing,
P. vii. 23-9.
F. W. H. Myers, The Case of " Edina ", J. v. 100-5.
M. Petrovo-Solovovo, An Automatic Message conveying Information
previously Unknown, J. ix. 65-8.
M. Petrovo-Solovovo, Note on some Automatic Messages, J. x. 70-4.
Sir 0. Lodge, A Case of Automatic Intelligence, J. xi. 309-15.
C. Richet, Xenoglossie, P. xix. 162-94, 262-6.
Sir 0. Lodge, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Hon E. Feilding and Alice Johnson,
Discussion of Professor Richet's Case of Automatic Writing in
a Language unknown to the Writer, P. xix. 195-261.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, On a Series of Automatic Writings, P. xx. 1-432.
Rev. M. A. Bayfield and H. A. Smith, Discussion of Mme X.'s Greek
Script, J. xii. 233-42.
Alice Johnson, On the Automatic Writing of Mrs Holland, P. xxi.
166-391.
Sir 0. Lodge, Automatism and Possession, J. xiii. 180-6.
Automatic Telegraphy, J. xiii. 219-20.
Sir 0. Lodge, Possible Automatism of Young Children, J. xiv. 60-3.
Alice Johnson, Supplementary Notes on the First Report on Mrs
Holland's Script, P. xxiv. 2-10.
Alice Johnson, Second Report on Mrs Holland's Script, P. xxiv.
201-63.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, A New Group of Experimenters, P. xxiv. 264-318.
Alice Johnson, Sequel to the " Sesame and Lilies " Incident, P. xxiv.
319-28.
F. Podmore, Discussion of the Second Report on Mrs Holland's
Script, J. xiv. 317-21.
36 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
Alice Johnson, Some Points in the recent Reports on Automatic
Scripts, J. xiv. 345-53.
F. Podmore, On the Recent Automatic Scripts, J. xiv. 363-5.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, " The One-Horse Dawn ", P. xxv. 109-11.
Sir 0. Lodge, Evidence of Classical Scholarship and of Cross-Corres-
pondence in some new Automatic Writings, P. xxv. 114-75.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, Notes on Mrs Willett's Scripts of February, 1910,
P. xxv. 176-217.
Alice Johnson, Third Report on Mrs Holland's Script, P. xxv. 218-
303.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908, P. xxv.
320-37.
Alice Johnson, An Incident in Mrs Holland's Script, J. xv. 70-5.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, A Month's Record of Automatisms, P. xxvi. 24-56.
J. G. Piddington, Two Tennysonian Quotations in Mrs Verrall's
Scripts, xxvi. 245-50.
Musical Prodigies and Automatism, J. xvi. 56-64.
Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Some recent Scripts affording Evidence of
Personal Survival, P. xxvii. 221-43.
Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Note on the same Scripts, P. xxvii. 244-9, 318-32.
H. de G. Verrall, A Further Study of the Mac Scripts, P. xxvii.
250-78.
E. Mattiesen, The Phenomena of Frieda Gentes, J. xvi. 210-23.
H. Carrington, I. LI. Tuckett, and Rev. M. A. Bayfield, A Discussion
of the Willett Scripts, P. xxvii. 458-91.
Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, The Ear of Dionysius, P. xxix. 197-243,
270-86.
F. M. Stawell, The Ear of Dionysius : a Discussion of the Evidence,
P. xxix. 260-9.
Mrs W. H. Salter, Some Experiments with a new Automatist, P.
xxix. 306-49.
Sir W. F. Barrett, Evidence of Super-Normal Communciations
through Motor Automatisms, P. xxx. 230-50.
G. W. Lambert, Co-operative Aiitomatism, J. xix. 66-70.
A. Childe-Pemberton, The Case of William Gillam, J. xix. 112-24.
H. Ramsden, A Record of some Experiments in Automatism, J.
xix. 241-7.
Note on " The Case of Abraham Florentine," J. xx. 148-52.
W. H. Salter and J. G. Piddington, Elucidation of Two Points in the
" One-Horse Dawn Scripts ", P. xxxiv. 153-65.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, The " Oscar Wilde " Script, P. xxxiv. 186-96.
S. G. Soal, Note on the " Oscar Wilde " Script, J. xxiii. 110-2.
W. H. Salter and [S. G. Soal], Some Automatic Scripts purporting to
be inspired by Margaret Veley, Poet and Novelist (1843-87),
P. xxxviii. 281-374.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 37
J. A. Hill, Some Reincarnatioiiist Automatic Scripts, P. xxxviii.
375-87.
Canon H. B. Ottley, The Scripts of Oleophas, J. xxv. 89-91.
H. A. Dallas, The Veley Scripts, J. xxv. 138-8._
E. B. Gibbes, Miss Cummins's Automatic Writing, J. xxvii. 136-8.
b. Cross-Correspondences
J. G. Piddington, A Series of Concordant Automatisms, P. xxii. 19-
416.
A. C. Pigou, Psychical Research and Survival after Bodily Death,
P. xxiii. 286-303, J. xiv. 161.
F. Podmore, C. Lowes Dickinson, F. C. Constable, J. G. Piddington,
Sir 0. Lodge, Mrs A. W. Verrall, and others, [Discussion of
Cross-Correspondences], J. xiv. 3-30.
Sir 0. Lodge, A Reply to Professor Pigou's Criticism of Cross-Corres-
pondences, J. xiv. 134-6, 161-2.
J. G. Piddington, Supplementary Notes on " A Series of Concordant
Automatisms ", P. xxiv. 11-30.
Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Professor Pigou on Cross-Correspondences,
P. xxv. 38-56.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, Note on the Cross-Correspondence " Cup ",
P. xxv. 304-19.
Six 0. Lodge, [Imitation Cross-Correspondence], J. xv. 52-6, 75-80.
A. C. Pigou, Cross-Correspondences, J. xv. 66-70.
F, C. Constable, Note on Part Lxii of " Proceedings ", J. xv. 83-7.
H. de G. Verrall, The Element of Chance in Cross-Correspondences,
J. XV. 153-72.
J. Maxwell, Les Correspondances Croisees et la Methode Experi-
mentale, P. xxvi. 57-144.
Anna Hude, The Latin Message Experiment, P. xxvi. 147-70.
J. G. Piddington, Note on Mrs Hude's Paper, P. xxvi. 171-3.
J. G. Piddington, A Hitherto unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode
Question, P. xxvi. 174-220, 231-44.
Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Some Observations on the foregoing
Paper, P. xxvi. 221-30.
Alice Johnson, Coincidences in Pseudo-Scripts, J. xv. 291-6.
AUce Johnson, An Experiment in Interpretation, J. xv. 321-4.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Mrs A. W. Verrall, Alice Johnson, and J. G. Pid-
dington, Reply to Dr Joseph Maxwell's Paper on " Cross-
Correspondences and the Experimental Method," P. xxvi.
375-418.
H. de G. Verrall, The Element of Chance in Cross-Correspondences :
a Further Experiment, J. xvi. 34-41.
38 Classified List of ihe Contents of the [part
Alice Johnson, A reconstruction of some " Ooncordant Auto-
matisms ", P. xxvii. 1-156.
W. F. Prince, The " St Paul " Cross-Correspondences Reviewed,
J. xviii. 71-81, 112-21.
J. G. Piddington, Note on Dr Prince's Review, J. xviii. 81-3, 140-4.
H. Wales, " Cloudless Sky beyond the Horizon ", J. xviii. 203-9.
J. G. Piddington, Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type, P. xxix.
1-45.
J. G. Piddington, Fresh Light on the " One-Horse Dawn " Experi-
ment, P. XXX. 175-229.
Sir 0. Lodge, Note on Mr Piddington's Paper called " Fresh Light
on the One-Horse Dawn Experiment ", P. xxx. 291-5.
J. G. Piddington, A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note, P. xxx. 296-
305.
J. G. Piddington, " One Crowded Hour of Glorious Life ", P. xxxvi.
345-75 471-6.
A. F. Hall, One Crowded Hour of Glorious Life ", P. xxxvi. 455-70,
J. xxiv. 156-6.
J. G. Piddington, The Master Builder, P. xxxvi. 477-505.
W. H. Salter, An Experiment in Pseudo-Scripts, P. xxxvi. 525-54.
Sir 0. Lodge, On the Significance of Cross-Correspondences, J. xxiv.
151-2.
Th. Besterman, The Margery Cross-Correspondences, P. xxxviii.
399-408.
H. F. Saltmarsh, Non-Veridical Cross-Correspondences, J. xxv.
159-62.
iii. Book-tests
Mrs H. Sidgwick, An Examination of Book-tests obtained in Sittings
with Mrs Leonard, P. xxxi. 241-400.
The Reading of Closed Books apparently by Clairvoyance, J. xx.
179-88.
Two Book-tests, J. xx. 376-81.
On the Element of Chance in Book-tests, P. xxxiii. 606-20. •
•
Ina Jephson, A Pseudo-Book-test, J. xxvi. 98-9.
Th. Besterman, A Notable Book-test obtained at a Sitting with Mrs
Leonard, J. xxvii. 59-69.
Th. Besterman, Further Inquiries into the Element of Chance in
Book-tests, P. xl. 59-98.
iv. Clairvoyance
G. Wyld, " Clairvoyance," P. i. 156-7.
0. Richet, Further Experiments in Hypnotic Lucidity or Clairvoy-
ance, P. vi. 66-83.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 39
A. B. Balfour, Some Remarks on Professor Richet's Experiments on
the Possibility of Clairvoyant Perception of Drawings, J. iii.
348-54, iv. 7.
C. Richet, Further Remarks on Experiments in Clairvoyant Percep-
tion of Drawings, J. iv. 3-7.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Experiments in Apparent Clairvoyance, J. iv, 188-
90.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, On the Evidence for Clairvoyance, P. vii. 30-99,
356-69.
A. Backman, Experiments in Clairvoyance, P. vii. 199-220.
F. W. H. Myers, Notes on a Visit to Kalmar [to Dr Backman], P. vii.
370-3.
Further Information as to Dr Backman's Experiments in Clairvoy-
ance, P. viii. 405-11.
M. Petrovo-Solovovo, Account of some Experiments in apparent
Clairvoyance, J. vi. 296-302.
A. Bjarnason and H. de G. Verrall, An Icelandic Seer, J. xvii. 53-76,
78-82.
E. J. Dingwall, An Experiment with the Polish Medium Stephan
Ossowiecki, J. xxi. 259-63.
Ina Jephson, Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-G-uessing, P. xxxviii.
223-71.
Ina Jephson, A Reply to M. Sudre's Article, " An Experiment in
Card-Guessing ", P. xxxix. 185-9.
Th. Besterman, S. G. Soal and Ina Jephson, Report of a Series of
Experiments in Clairvoyance conducted at a Distance under
approximately Fraud-Proof Conditions, P. xxxix. 375-414.
V. Premonitions
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, On the Evidence for Premonitions, P. v. 288-
354.
Apparent Premonitions, J. xi. 141-7.
Rev. C. D. Thomas, Newspaper Tests, J. xx. 89-107.
J. G. Piddington, Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War, P. xxxiii.
439-605.
Sir 0. Lodge, Note on Mr J. G. Piddington's Recent Paper, J. xxi.
48-9.
Sir W. F. Barrett, A Remarkable Premonitory Crystal Vision, J. xxi.
157-64.
Rev. C. D. Thomas, A Recent Newspaper Test, J. xxii. 18-23.
A. W. Trethewy, Three Newspaper Tests, J. xxiii. 118-36.
Th. Besterman, A Prophecy in Old Moore's Almanack, J. xxvii.
182-3.
40 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
vi. Scrying
[A. Goodrich-Freer], Recent Experiments in Crystal-Vision, P. v.
486-521.
J. H. Hyslop, Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision, P. xii. 259-76.
Experiments in Crystal Vision, J. viii. 71-4.
Reminiscent Crystal-Visions, J. xiii. 298-301 ; J. xiv. 151-5, 321-4.
vii. Telepathy
a. General and Miscellaneous
W. F. Barrett, E. Gurney, and F. W. H. Myers, First Report on
Thought-Reading, P. i. 13-34.
W. F. Barrett, Appendix to the Report on Thought-Reading,
P. i. 47-64.
W. F. Barrett, On Some Phenomena associated with Abnormal
Conditions of Mind, P. i. 238-44.
Rev. E. H. Sugden, Note on Muscle-Reading, P. i. 291-3.
Pseudo Thought-Reading, J. i. 10-1.
0. Beatty, Thought-Reading with and without Contact, J. ii. 34-7.
A. T. Myers, On the Actions of Drugs at a Distance, J. ii. 58-62.
E. Gurney, Note relating to some of the published Experiments in
Thought-Transference, P. v. 269-70.
C. H. Pedley, Exposure of a Trick Code, J. ix. 61-4.
Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena, J. x. 177-92, 199-208.
F. N. Hales, A Case of Supposed Thought-Reading, J. x. 241-50.
Confessions of a " Telepathist " [D. Blackburn], J. xv. 115-32.
A Sitting with Zeno, J. xv. 268-71.
W. F. Prince, A Sitting with Bert Reese, J. xxvii. 249-54.
b. Theoretical
0. J. Lodge and A. Lodge, and E. Gurney, [On the calculation of
probabilities in telepathic experiments], P. ii. 257-64.
F. W. H. Myers, On Telepathic Hypnotism, and its Relation to other
Forms of Hypnotic Suggestion, P. iv. 127-88.
C. Downing, The Three Mental Conditions of the Minds of Telepathic
Agents, J. iii. 77-9, 109-12, 161-4.
E. Gurney, Hypnotism and Telepathy, P. v. 216-59.
G. Le M. Taylor, Experimental Comparison between Chance and
Thought-Transferenee in Correspondence of Diagrams, P. vi.
398-405.
H. Sidgwick, Involuntary Whispering considered in Relation to
Experiments in Thought-Transference, P. xii. 298-315.
126] Society''s Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 41
Messrs Hansen and Lehmann on the Telepathic Problem, J. ix.
113-20.
E. W. Roberts and W. R. Newbold, Premature Generalisations about
Telepathy, J. ix. 169-76, 197-200.
Sir W. F. Barrett, Note on Telepathy and Telergy, P. xxx. 251-60.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, On Hindrances and Complications in Telepathic
Communication, P. xxxiv. 28-69.
H. Cason, A Simple Test for Thought-Transference, J. xxi. 314-9.
F. C. S. Schiller, What is Wrong with Telepathy ? J. xxii. 91-4.
R. WarcoUier, L'accord Telepathique, J. xxiv. 319-23.
S. G. Soal, R. WarcoUier, and G. Murphy, Methods in Experimental
Telepathy, J. xxvii. 130-5, 206-13, 236-41.
c. Spontaneous
W. F. Barrett, and others. Report of the Literary Committee, P. i.
116-55.
F. W. H. Myers, Second Report of the Literary Committee, P. ii.
43-55.
A Diary of Telepathic Impressions, J. vii. 299-306, 311-9.
A. Alexander, Account of a Telepathic Dream, J. x. 33-8.
Sir J. Crichton -Browne, Report of a Co-Cognitive Dream, J. xii.
145-56.
E. Mattiesen, A Case of Telepathic Hallucination, J. xvi. 118-26.
A Telepathic Impression of the " Volturno " Disaster, J. xvi.
177-92.
H. Wales, A Report on a Series of Cases of apparent Thought Trans-
ference without Conscious Agency, P. xxxi. 124-217.
H. Wales, A Series of apparent Telepathic Communications,
variously manifested, J. xx. 134-43.
A Case of Thought-Transference, J. xxi. 170-5.
d. Experimental
Balfour Stewart, Note on Thought-Reading, P. i. 35-42.
Rev. A. M. Oreery, Note on Thought-Reading, P. i. 43-6.
E. Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, and W. F. Barrett, Second Report on
Thought-Transference, P. i. 70-97.
E. Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, and W. F. Barrett, Third Report on
Thought-Transference, P. i. 161-215.
M. Guthrie and J. Birchall, Record of Experiments in Thought-
Transference, P. i. 263-83.
E. Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, and W. F. Barrett, Fourth Report of the
Committee on Thought-Transference, P. ii. 1-11.
M. Guthrie, An Account of Some Experiments in Thought-Trans-
ference, P. ii. 24-42.
42 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
0. J. Lodge, An Account of Some Experiments in Thought-Trans-
ference, P. ii. 189-216.
E. Gurney, M. Eichet's recent Researches in Thought-Transference,
P. ii. 239-57.
M. Guthrie, Further Report on Experiments in Thought-Trans-
ference at Liverpool, P. iii. 424-52.
M. Dessoir, Experiments in Muscle-Reading and Thought-Trans-
ference, P. iv. 111-26, v. 355-7.
A. SchmoU, Experiments in Thought-Transference, P. iv. 324-36.
Rev. P. H. Newnham, " Will-Transference ", J. iii. 49-54.
C. Richet, Sommeil a Distance, J. iii. 150-2.
Mrs M. E. Shield, Experiments in Thought-Transference, J. iii. 178-
82 ; J. V. 189-91, 276-9.
Experiments in Thought-Transference, J. iii. 182-91.
A. SchmoU and J. E. Mabire, Experiments in Thought-Transference,
P. V. 169-215.
H. Sidgwick, Mrs H. Sidgwick, and G. A. Smith, Experiments in
Thought-Transference, P. vi. 128-70.
Experiments in Thought-Transference, J. iv. 33-7.
Baron von Schrenck-Notzing, Experimental Studies in Thought-
Transference, P. vii. 3-22.
0. J. Lodge, Some Recent Thought-Transference Experiments, P.
vii. 374-81.
A. B. Thaw, Some Experiments in Thought-Transference, P. viii.
422-35.
Mrs H. Sidgwick and Alice Johnson, Experiments in Thought-Trans-
ference, P. viii. 536-96.
Mr Kirk's Experiments in Thought-Transference from a Distance,
J. V. 21-30, 111-26, 182-4.
E. Selous, Experiments in Thought-Transference, J. v. 184-9.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Experiments in Thought-Transference from a
Distance, J. vi. 98-101.
H. G. Rawson, Experiments in Thought-Transference, P. xi. 2-17.
G. B. Ermacora, Telepathic Dreams experimentally induced, P. xi.
235-308.
A. S. Wiltse, Experiments in Thought-Transference, J. vii. 197-206.
Experiments in Thought-Transference at a Distance, J. vii. 234-8.
Experiments in Thought-Transference at a Distance, J. vii. 325-9.
Experiments in Thought-Transference, J. viii. 302-7.
Experiments in Thought-Transference, J. x. 260-3.
Telepathic Experiments with Dr Richardson, J. xi. 237-42.
C. Miles and H. Ramsden, Experiments in Thought-Transference,
P. xxi. 60-93.
C. Miles, Experiments in Thought Transference, J. xtii. 243-62.
Experiments in Thought-Transference, J. xiv. 392-9.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 43
Sir 0. Lodge, Report on a Case of Telepathy. J. xvi. 102-11.
J. E. Coover, Tliought-Transference—Experimental, P. xxvii.
186-90.
C. Miles and H. Ramsden, Experiments in Thought-Transference,
P. xxvii. 279-317.
Hon. E. Feilding and Alice Johnson, Report on some Experiments in
Thought-Transference, J. xvi. 164-7.
W. W. Baggally, Report on Experiments with " Amy Joyce ", J.
xvi. 168-73.
J. A. Hill, Note on the Experiments with " Amy Joyce ", J. xvi.
173-5.
H. de G. Verrall, Some recent Experiments in Thought-Transfer-
ence, P. xxvii. 415-57.
J. H. Hyslop, A Note on " Some Recent Experiments in Telepathy ",
J. xvii. 160-2.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Report on a Series of Experiments in " Guessing ",
P. xxix. 64-110.
F. H. Van Loon and A. A. Weinberg, A Method of Investigation into
Thought-Transference, J. xx. 4-23, 34-49.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Report on Further Experiments in Thought-Trans-
ference carried out by Professor Gilbert Murray, P. xxxiv.
212-74, 336-41.
R. H. Thouless, Professor Murray's Experiments in Telepathy, J.
xxii. 51-4.
Ina Jephson, A Report on Experiments in Thought Transference,
J. xxiv. 79-88.
V. J. WooUey, The Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-Telepathy,
P. xxxviii. 1-9.
I. C. Grondahl, A Sitting with Mme Kahl, J. xxvi. 43-5.
S. G. Soal, Experiments in Supernormal Perception at a Distance, P.
xl. 165-362.
Th. Besterman, An Experiment in long-distance Telepathy, J.
xxvii. 235-6.
viii. Trance Mediumship
a. General and Theoretical
H. Carrington, The Trance State, J. xiii. 204-8.
[Incidents at Sittings with Trance Mediums], J. xx. 122-32.
Some Incidents in Sittings with Trance Mediums, J. xx. 152-72.
(Una) Lady Troubridge, The Modus Operandi in so-called Medium-
istic Trance, P. xxxii. 344-78, J. xx. 290-1.
Col. C. E. Baddeley, On " The Modus Operandi of so-called Medium-
istic Trance ", J. xx. 238-43.
44 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
Rev. W. 8. Irving, Thoughts oii Trance Phenomena, J. xxi. 82-7.
S. Ah'utz, The Mechanism of the so-called Mediumistic Trance,
P. xxxiv. 166-80.
Una, Lady Troiibridge, Some further Consideration of the Modus
Operandi in Mediimiistic Trance, P. xxxiv. 298-309.
S. G. Soal, A Report on some Communications received through Mrs
Blanche Cooper, P. xxxv. 471-594.
H. D. Bradley, S. G. Soal, H. Carrington, and H. A. Dallas, An
Analysis of the Experiments of Mr S. G. Soal, J. xxii. 29-50,
55-61, 91-2.
Rev. C. D. Thomas, Concerning Errors of Transmission in Trance-
Conununication, J. xxiii. 61-4.
Rev. W. S. Irving, More Thoughts on Trance Phenomena, P. xxxvi.
555-72.
Rev. C. D. Thomas, The Modus Operandi of Trance Communication
according to Descriptions received through Mrs Osborne
Leonard, P. xxxviii. 49-100.
E. Mattiesen, A Reply to Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, J. xxv.
27-32.
Nea WaUcer, The Tony Burpaan Case, P. xxxix. 1-46.
H. F. Saltmarsh, Report on the Investigation of some Sittings with
Mrs Warren Elliott, P. xxxix. 47-184.
Mrs W. H. Salter, Some Incidents occurring at Sittings with Mrs
Leonard which may throw Light upon their Modus Operandi,
P. xxxix. 306-32.
Rev. W. S. Irving, Thoughts on Mr Saltmarsh's Report on a Series of
Sittings, P. xxxix. 333-42.
S. R. W. Wilson, Note on the Mediumship of Mrs Mason, J. xxvi.
74-5.
E. S. Thomas, Notes on a Sitting with Mrs Brittain, J. xxvi. 135-7.
A Series of Mediumistic Statements made to Four Sitters, J. xxvii.
,
78-84.
b. Mrs Leonard
Radclyffe Hall and Una Lady Troubridge, On a Series of Sittings
with Mrs Osborne Leonard, P. xxx. 339-554.
M. Radclyffe Hall, A Note on " A Series of Sittings with Mrs Osborne
Leonard J. xix. 183-6.
H. Wales, The Sittings of Miss Radclyffe Hall and Lady Troubridge
with Mrs Leonard, J. xix. 190-3.
M. RadclyfEe Hall, A Reply to Mr Hubert Wales's Letter, J. xix.
193-6.
Mrs W. H. Salter, A Further Report on Sittings with Mrs Leonard,
P. xxxii. 1-143.
126] Society'' s Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 45
M. Kadclyffe Hall, On some Evidence of Personal Identity in recent
Sittings with Mrs Leonard, J. xxi. 130-6.
Mrs W. H. Salter, A Report on some recent Sittings with Mrs
Leonard, P. xxxvi. 187-342.
Rev. W. S. Irving and Th. Besterman, Evidential Extracts from
Sittings with Mrs Leonard, P. xl. 129-61.
c. Mrs Piper
F. W. H. Myers, 0. J. Lodge, W. Leaf, and W. James, A Record of
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance, P. vi. 436-659.
R. Hodgson, A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of
Trance, P. viii. 1-167.
R. Hodgson, A Further Record of Observations of Certain Pheno-
mena of Trance, P. xiii. 284-582.
W. R. Newbold, A Further Record of Observations of Certain Pheno-
mena of Trance, P. xiv. 6-49.
F. Podmore, Discussion of the Trance-Phenomena of Mrs Piper, P.
xiv. 50-78.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Discussion of the Trance Phenomena of Mrs Piper,
P. XV. 16-38.
A. Lang, Reflections on Mrs Piper and Telepathy, P. xv. 39-52.
0. Lodge, Further " Reflections on Mrs Piper and Telepathy ", J.
ix. 212-20.
A. Lang, Mrs Piper and Telepathy, J. ix. 228-31.
J. H. Hyslop, A Further Record of Observations of Certain Trance
Phenomena, P. xvi. 1-649, J. x. 212-22.
The Newspapers on Mrs Piper, J. x. 142-3, 150-2.
F. C. Constable, Psychology of Mrs Piper's Trance, J. xvii. 195-9.
H. Carrington, Discussion of the Trance Phenomena of Mrs Piper,
P. xvii. 337-59.
J. H. Hyslop, Remarks on Mr Carrington's Paper, P. xvii. 360-73.
F. Podmore, On Professor Hyslop's Report on his Sittings with Mrs
Piper, P. xvii. 374-88.
J. H. Hyslop, Reply to Mr Podmore's Criticism, P. xviii. 78-101.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, An Incident in Mrs Piper's Trance, P. xxii. 417-40.
F. C. S. Schiller, Comments on a Criticism of Prof. Hyslop, J. xiii.
163-7.
W. James, Report on Mrs Piper's Hodgson-Control, P. xxiii. 2-121.
Mrs H. Sidgwick and J. G. Piddington, Note on Mrs Piper's Hodgson-
Control in England in 1906-7, P. xxiii. 122-6.
Sir 0. Lodge, Report on some Trance Communications received
chiefly through Mrs Piper, P. xxiii. 127-285.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Mrs A. W. Verrall, and J. G. Piddington, Further
Experiments with Mrs Piper in 1908, P. xxiv. 31-200.
46 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
H. de G. Verrall, Keport on the Junot Sittings with Mrs Piper,
P. xxiv. 351-664.
A. Lang, Open Letter to Dr Stanley Hall, P. xxv. 90-101.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, A Contribution to the Study of the Psychology of
Mrs Piper's Trance, P. xxviii. 1-657.
A. W. Trethewy, Mrs Piper and the Imperator Band of " Controls ",
P. XXXV. 445-65.
d. Mrs Thompson
0. Lodge, Introduction to the Reports of Sittings with Mrs Thomp-
son, P. xvii. 61-6.
F. van Eeden, Account of Sittings with Mrs Thompson, P. xvii.
75-115.
J. 0. Wilson and J. G. Piddiugton, A Record of Two Sittings with
Mrs Thompson, P. xvii. 116-37.
R. Hodgson, Report on Six Sittings with Mrs Thompson, P. xvii.
138-61.
Alice Johnson, Note on a possibly Automatic Incident observed in
the Case of Mrs Thompson, P. xvii. 162-3.
Mrs A. W. Verrall, Notes on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs Thomp-
son, P. xvii. 164-244.
H. Carrington and E. Westlake, Dr Hodgson's Report on his Sittings
with Mrs Thompson, J. x. 283-8.
J. G. Piddington, The Trance Phenomena of Mrs Thompson, J.
xi. 74-6.
J. G. Piddington, On the Types of Phenomena displayed in Mrs
Thompson's Trance, P. xviii. 104-307, J. xi. 259-60.
J. H. Hyslop, On the Types of Phenomena displayed in Mrs Thomp-
son's Trance, J. xi. 255-9.
III. Intermediate Phenomena
i. Apparitions
E. Gurney and F. W. H. Mvers, A Theorv of Apparitions, P. ii.
109-36, 157-86.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Notes on the Evidence, collected by the Society
for Phantasms of the Dead, P. iii. 69-150, J. iii. 69-71.
H. Wedgwood, " Phantasms of the Living ", J. iii. 82-5.
E. Gurnev and F. W. H. Myers, On Apparitions occurring soon after
Death, P. v. 403-85.
F. W. H. Myers, A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead, P. vi. 314-57.
F. Podmore, Phantasms of the Dead from another Point of View,
P. vi. 229-313.
126] Society'' s Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 4:1
F. W. H. Myers, On Kecognized Apparitions occurring more than a
Year after Death, P. vi. 13-65.
F. W. H. Myers, Are Apparitions Objective or Subjective ?, J. iv.
244-8.
T. Barkworth, The Origin and Nature of Post-Mortem Apparitions,
J. iv. 294-7.
F. W. H. Myers, On Indications of continued Terrene Knowledge on
the Part of Phantasms of the Dead, P. viii. 170-2-52.
Miss A. Johnson, A Case of Information supernormally acquired,
P. xii. 116-26.
Psychical Heredity [of the seeing of apparitions], J. viii. 264-8.
A. Alexander, A Case of " Spirit " Identity, J. viii. 281-95.
A. Lang, " Spirit Hands ", Suggestion and Dogs, J. xiv. 65-72. •
A Veridical Apparition, J. xx. 78-88.
Sir W. F. Barrett, The Genesis of Apparitions, J. xx. 112-5.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Phantasms of the Living, P. xxxiii. 23-429.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, A Phantasm of the Dead con-
veying Information unknown to the Percipient, J. xxvi. 95-8.
ii. Poltergeists and Hauntings
W. F. Barrett, and others. First Report of the Committee on Haunt-
ed Houses, P. i. 101-15.
F. S. Hughes, F. Podmore, and E. R. Pease, Second Report of the
Committee on Haimted Houses, &c., P. ii. 137-51.
F. S. Hughes, Report in the " Shropshire Disturbances ", J. i. 19-26.
Major G. L. Le M. Taylor, Report on the alleged Manifestations at
Arundel, Sussex, J. i. 57-62.
F. Podmore, Report on the Worksop Disturbances, J. i. 199-212.
G. A. Smith, Report on a Haunted House at Norwich, J. i. 313-7.
F. Podmore, An Accoimt of some Abnormal Phenomena alleged to
have occurred at B Lodge, W , J. ii. 196-207.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, A Haunted House, J. iii. 322-32.
S. Joyce, A Theory of " Haunting ", J. iv. 165-8.
R. C. Morton, Record of a Haunted House, P. viii. 311-32.
E. Procter, The Haunted House at Willington, J. v. 331-52.
[The Haunting of H House], J. vi. 52-74.
F. Podmore, Poltergeists, P. xii. 45-115.
Col. G.L. Le M. Taylor and F. Podmore, "Poltergeists", J. vii. 306-8,
323-4.
[A. Goodrich-Freer], A Passing Note on a Haunted House, J.
viii. 21-5.
The " Wasting Loaves " at Raikes Farm, Beverley, J. xi. 171-6.
Two Poltergeist Cases, J. xii. 124-42.
48 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
Hon. E. Feilding, The Haunted Solicitor, J. xii. 162-9.
W. G. Grottendieck, A Poltergeist Case, J. xii. 260-6, 294-6.
A. Lang, Hon E. Feilding, F. Podmore, and others, Mr Grottendeick's
Poltergeist, J. xii. 278-84, 294-5, 328-31.
Haunted House, J. xiii. 52-64.
A. Warndorfer, Report of a " Poltergeist " Case, J. xiii. 66-79.
W. F. Barrett, Poltergeists, Old and New, P. xxv. 377-412.
H. G. A. Moore, On Professor Barrett's " Poltergeists : Old and
New ", J. XV. 132-6.
N. J. Murphy, The Enniscorthy Poltergeist, J. xv. 150-2.
A Poltergeist Case, J. xv. 225-40.
F. J. M. Stratton, The Haunting of House, J. xvi. 274-97.
Sir W. F. Barrett, Investigation of a Haunted House in Worcester-
shire, J. xvii. 34-42.
A Poltergeist Case, J. xvii. 85-95.
Sir W. F. Barrett and T. Hesketh, The Folkestone Poltergeist, J.
xviii. 155-82.
A Supposed " Poltergeist " Case and its Explanation, J. xix. 95-9.
A. von Schrenck-Notzing, The Hopfgarten Poltergeist Case, J. xx.
199-207.
The Poltergeist Case at Ledaig, Argyleshire, J. xx. 375-6.
An Enquiry into a " Haunted House ", J. xxii. 83-8.
V. J. WooUey, Some Investigations into Poltergeists, J. xxvi. 104-7.
W. H. Salter, [On Poltergeists], J. xxvii. 91-5.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, A Case of Apparent Haunting in
Moscow, J. xxvii. 95-7.
iii. Dowsing
A¥. J. Sollas, Report on Wells sunk at Locking, Somerset, to test the
alleged power of the Divining Rod, P. ii. 73-8.
E. R. Pease, The Divining Rod, P. ii. 79-107.
W. F. Barrett, On the so-called Divining Rod, or Virgula Divina, P.
xiii. 2-282, P. xv. 130-383.
E. T. Bennett and W. F. Barrett, The Divining Rod and Uncon-
scious Muscular Action, J. viii. 151-8.
W. F. Barrett, A Novel Use of the Dowsing Rod, J. ix. 328-31.
The Divining Rod, J. xi. 86-94.
W. F. Barrett, The Dowsing Rod, J. xiv. 50-60.
W. F. Barrett, On the Detection of Hidden Objects by Dowsers,
J. xiv. 183-93.
W. W. Baggally, Dowsing Experiments with Mr J. E., J. xv. 243-9.
Count 0. von Klinckowstroem, The Divining Rod in Germany,
J. XV. 329-34.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 49
Sir W. F. Barrett, Dowsing and Unconscious Muscular Action, J. xv.
335-7.
Sir W. F. Barrett, The Psychical versus the Physical Theory of
Dowsing, J. xvi. 43-8.
Count 0. von Klinckowstroem, The Present Position of the Divining
Rod Question in Germany, J. xxii. 54-60.
Th. Besterman, The Present Status of Dowsing in the British Press,
J. xxiv. 152-5.
Th. Besterman, Dowsing in Bombay, J. xxv. 129-30.
Th. Besterman, Vicomte Henri de France, and Graf C. von Klinck-
owstroem, Towards a Theory of Dowsing, J. xxvii. 142-60.
IV. Physical Phenomena
i. General and Theoretical
Mrs H. Sidgwick, On Physical Tests, and the Line between the
Possible and the Impossible, J. i. 430-2.
W. F. Barrett, On Some Physical Phenomena, commonly called
Spiritualistic, witnessed by the Author, P. iv. 25-44 ; J. ii.
218-24.
BaKour Stewart, Note on the Above Paper, P. iv. 42-4.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Results of a Personal Investigation into the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, P. iv. 45-74 ; J. iii. 71-6,
95-6.
C. C. Massey, The Possibilities of Mal-Observation in Relation to
Evidence for the Phenomena of Spiritualism, P. iv. 75-99, 101-3,
107-8.
H. Sidgwick, [Discussion with C. C. Massey about the latter's
The Possibility of Mal-Observation], P. iv. 99-101, 103-6,
109-10.
E. Gurney and F. W. H. Myers, Statement of the Literary Committee
of the Society for Psychical Research, J. iii. 1-8.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, The Hallucination Theory as
applied to certain Cases of Physical Phenomena, P. xxi. 436-82,
512-5.
Alice Johnson, The Education of the Sitter, P. xxi. 483-511, J. xiv.
259-60.
Sir 0. Lodge, The Education of the Observer, J. xiv. 253-8.
Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Les Phenomenes physiques du
Spiritisme, P. xxv. 413-46.
Sir 0. Lodge, On the a priori Argument against Physical Phenomena,
P. xxv. 447-54.
50 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo and F. C. S. Schiller, The Con-
ditions of Control at Sittings for Physical Phenomena, J. xxv.
163-4, 175-6.
Th. Besterman, The Psychology of Testimony in relation to Para-
physical Phenomena, Report of an Experiment, P. xl. 363-87.
ii. Slate-Writing
H. C. Lewis, and others. Accounts of so-called " Spiritualistic
"
Seances, P. iv. 338-80.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Mr Eglinton, J. ii. 282-334, 356-7, 380-3, 439-40,
467-9, 474-84.
A. J. Lewis, How and What to observe in relation to Slate-Writing
Phenomena, J. ii. 362-75.
R. Hodgson, On the Reports, printed in the Journal for Jime [ii.
282-334] of Sittmgs with Mr Eglinton, J. ii. 409-.30, 461-7.
S. J. Davey, Mr Eglinton, J. ii. 430-8.
H. Wedgwood, Reply to Mrs Sidgwick, J. ii. 455-60.
R. Hodgson and S. J. Davey, The Possibilities of Mai-Observation
and Lapse of Memory from a practical Point of View, J. iii. 8-44 ;
P. iv. 381-495 ; J. iii. 153-4.
C. C. Massey, Mr R. Hodgson's Criticism of an Experiment in Psycho-
graphy, J. iii. 138-46.
S. J. Davey, Spurious Mediumship, J. iii. 199-207.
R. Hodgson, Mr Davey's Imitations by Conjuring of Phenomena
sometimes attributed to Spirit Agency, P. viii. 253-310 ; J. vi.
36-47.
A. R. Wallace, The late Mr S. J. Davey's Experiments, J. vi. 33-6.
An Experience with a Direct Slate-writing Medium, J. xi. 8-11.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, The Slate-Writing of Mrs
Francis, J. xiii. 293-5.
iii. Spirit Photography
Mrs H. Sidgwick, On Spu^it Photography, P. vii. 268-89.
M. Solovoy, Spirit Photography, J. v. 153-8, 177-8.
Mrs H. Sidgwick, Spirit Photography, J. v. 158-60, 178-9.
E. Selous, Spirit-Photography, J. v. 237-9.
Spirit Photography, J. vii. 165-71.
All Incorrect Version of a Case of supposed " Spirit-Photography ",
J. ix. 138-43.
Alice Johnson, D. B. McLachlan, W. F. Barrett, and others. Further
Discussion of a Case of supposed " Spirit-Photography ", J. ix.
177-94, 232-6, 251-2.
Hon E. Feilding, W. Marriott, and others, An Experiment in Faking
" Spirit " Photographs, J. xx. 219-23, 259-66.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 51
A Case of Fraud with the Crewe Circle, J. xx. 271-83.
Major E. E. E. Spencer, An Experiment with the Crewe Circle, J. xx.
335-8.
Sir 0. Lodge, On the Marking of Test Plates by previous Exposure,
J. XX. 370-2.
Observations on Mr Price's Sitting with Mr Hope, J. xxi. 4-10.
Concerning the proposed Experiments with the Crewe Circle, J. xxi.
111-4.
Rev. C. D. Thomas, and others. Concerning the " Price-Hope " Case,
J. xxi. 190-200.
iv. Eva C.
H. de G. Verrall, The History of Marthe Beraud (" Eva C"), P. xxvii.
333-69.
H. de G. Verrall, Dr Hyslop on the History of Marthe Beraud, J.
xvii. 82-4.
Report on a Series of Sittings with Eva C, P. xxxii. 209-343.
H. D. Taylor, The Phenomena exhibited by Eva C, J. xx. 340-4.
A. von Schrenck-Notzing, Concerning the Possibility of Deception in
Sittings with Eva C, P. xxxiii. 665-72.
V. Mrs Crandon
E. J. Dingwall, A Report on a Series of Sittings with the Medium
Margery, P. xxxvi. 79-158.
Hon E. Feilding, [The Margery Problem], P. xxxvi. 159-70.
[The Margery Mediumship], xxxvi. 414-32.
Statement by Mrs Crandon (Margery), P. xxxvi. 515-6.
W. F. Prince, Concerning the " Margery " Case, J. xxiv. 24-6.
L. R. G. Crandon, Some Critical Aspects of the Margery Mediumship,
J. xxiv. 186-93.
V. J. WooUey and E. Brackenbury, The Margery Mediimiship, and
the London Sittings of December 1929, P. xxxix. 358-68.
vi. D. D. Home
W. Crookes, Notes of Seances with D. D. Home, P. vi. 98-127.
W. F. Barrett and F. W. H. Myers, [D. D. Home], J. iv. 101-36,
249-52.
F. W. H. Myers, The Character of D. D. Home, J. vi. 176-9.
Mr Browning on D. D. Home, J. xi. 11-16.
A Sitting with D. D. Home, J. xi. 76-80.
Mr Merrifield's Sitting with D. D. Home, J. xi. 290-1.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, On the alleged Exposure of D. D.
Home in France, J. xv. 274-88.
d2
52 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
Earl of Dunraven, Experiences in Spiritualism with D. D. Home, P.
XXV. 1-285.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Some Thoughts on D. D. Home,
P. xxxix. 247-65.
S. De Brath, D. D. Home, J. xxvi. 77-9.
H. Carrington, In Defence of D. D. Home, J. xxvi. 109-11.
vii. Eusapia Palladino
0. J. Lodge, Experience of Unusual Physical Phenomena occurring
in the Presence of an Entranced Person (Eusapia Paladino),
J. vi. 306-36, 346-60.
F. W. H. Myers, and others, [Eusapia Paladino], J. vi. 336-45.
R. Hodgson, The Value of the Evidence for Supernormal Pheno-
mena in the Case of Eusapia Paladino, J. vii. 36-55.
F. W. H. Myers, 0. J. Lodge, C. Eichet, and J. Ochorowicz, [Replies
to Dr. Hodgson], J. vii. 55-79.
E. T. Dixon and M. Petrovo-Solovovo, on Experiments with Eusapia
Paladino, J. vii. 93-5, 111-2.
H. Sidgwick, Eusapia Paladino, J. vii. 148-59.
C. Richet, Eusapia Paladino, J. vii. 178-80.
J. H. Hyslop, Concerning Eusapia Paladino, J. vii. 210-2.
Hon. E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington, Report on a
Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino, P. xxiii. 306-569.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, M. Courtier's Report on the
Experiments with Eusapia Palladino, P. xxiii. 570-89, J. xiv.
115-32.
F. Podmore and F. C. Constable, The Report on Eusapia Palladino,
J. xiv. 172-7.
W. W. Baggally, Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, F. M. Stawell,
and Lieut-Col G. L. Le M. Taylor, Discussion of the Naples
Report on Eusapia Palladino, J. xiv. 213-44, 277-90.
Eusapia Palladino in America, J. xiv. 265-75.
S. L. Krebs, Trick-Methods of Eusapia Palladino : Major and
Minor, J. xiv. 297-317.
Sittings with Eusapia Palladino in America, J. xiv. 329-43.
Hon. E. Feilding and W. W. Baggally, Note on the Above, J. xiv.
343-5.
H. Carrington, Eusapia Palladino and Fraud, J. xiv. 370-2.
J. L. Kellogg, Does Eusapia Trick Unconsciously ?, J. xiv. 386-8.
Hon. E. Feilding, W. Marriott, Ooimt Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo,
Alice Johnson, and W. W. Baggally, Report on a further Series
of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino at Naples, P. xxv, 57-69,
'
J. XV. 17-32.
126] Society s Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 53
viii. Miscellaneous Phenomena and Mediums
W. Orookes, and others, Keport of an alleged Physical Phenomenon,
P. iii. 460-3.
A. R. Wallace, Account of a Spiritualistic Test, J. iii. 273-88.
The Fox Sisters, J. iv. 15-6.
F. W. H. Myers, On Alleged Movements of Ob]ects, without Contact,
occurring not in the Presence of a Paid Medium, P. vii. 146-98,
383-94.
An Exposure, J. viii. 33-7, 64.
Rev. E. R. Gardiner, Curious Knockings, J. viii. 233-8.
Rev. S. L. Krebs, A Description of some Trick Methods used by Miss
Bangs, of Chicago, J. x. .5-16.
An Alleged Case of Elongation, J. x. 104-9, 238-40.
N. W. Thomas, Report of an alleged Proof of the Passage of Matter
through Matter, J. x. 225-9.
The Mediumship of Mr C. Bailey, J. xii. 77-88, 109-18.
Sittings with Mr Chambers, J. xii. 197-203.
Exposure of Mr Eldred, J. xii. 242-52.
Exposures of Mr Craddock, J. xii. 266-8, 274-7.
I. Money, Rapping Magpies, J. xii. 343-5.
Alice Johnson, Report on some recent Sittings for Physical Pheno-
mena in America, P. xxi. 94-135.
Mysterious Lights, J. xiii. 8-13.
Some Mysterious Rappings Explained, J. xiii. 218-9.
W. W. Baggally, Some Sittings with Carancini, J. xiv. 193-211.
Sir 0. Lodge, On a Sitting with Mr and Mrs Tomson, J. xiv. 365-70.
H. de G. Verrall, The Case of Anna Buxton, J. xv. 140-7.
J. H. Hyslop, The Burton Case, J. xv. 190-2.
W. W. Baggally, Report on Sittings with Charles Bailey, the Aus-
tralian Apport Medium, J. xv. 194-208.
K. H. E. de Jong, The Trumpet-Medium, Mrs S. Harris, J. xvi. 266-
70.
Alice Johnson, Pseudo-Physical Phenomena in the Case of Mr
Griinbaum, P. xxvii. 400-10.
Hon. E. Feilding, Note on the English Sittings with Miss Tomczyk,
J. xvii. 28-31.
W. W. Smith, " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena ", P. xxx.
306-33.
Sir W. Barrett, Report of Physical Phenomena taking place at
Belfast with Dr Crawford's Medium, P. xxx. 334-7.
E. J. Dingwall, Physical Phenomena recently observed with the
Medium Willy Sch. at Munich, J. xx. 359-70.
E. J. Dingwall, Telekinetic and Teleplastic Mediumship, P. xxxiv.
324-32.
54 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, The Strange and Instructive
Case of Mr " Y ", J. xxi. 249-53.
E. J. Dingwall, The Case of the Medium Pasquale Erto, J. xxi.
278-80.
E. J. Dingwall, A Report on a Series of Sittings with Mr Willy
Schneider, P. xxxvi. 1-33.
V. J. WooUey and E. J. Dingwall, Luminous and other Phenomena
observed with the Medium Janusz Fronczek, P. xxxvi. 34-51.
V. J. Woolley, Lady Troubridge, and M. Radclyffe Hall, An Account
of a Series of Sittings with Mr George Valiantine, P. xxxvi.
52-77.
The Cases of Mr Moss and Mr Munnings, J. xxiii. 71-5.
H. Carrington and Lady Troubridge, Concerning " A Series of
Sittings with Mr George Valiantine," J. xxiii. 87-91.
H. D. Bradley, The S.P.R. Series of Sittings with Mr George Valian-
tine, J. xxiii. 148-54.
J. Parkin, Eleonore Ziigun and the National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, J. xxiv. 60-3.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Note on an Early Exposure of
Guzik, J. xxiv. 368-70.
Th. Besterman, Report of a Pseudo-Sitting for Physical Phenomena
with Karl Kraus, J. xxiv. 388-92.
R. Lambert, The Medium Frau Silbert, J. xxvii. 112-8.
Th. Besterman, The Mediumship of Rudi Schneider, P. xl. 428-36.
V. Psychology
i. General and Miscellaneous
Hon. R. Noel, Hallucination, Memory, and the Unconscious Self,
J. ii. 158-71, 195, 269-72.
E. W. Claypole, On Pseudo-Memory, J. iv. 328-30.
W. Ramsay, Partial Anaesthesia, P. ix. 236-44.
R. 0. Mason, Case of Hysteria, Catalepsy and Unstable Conscious-
ness, accompanied by Supernormal Perception, J. vi. 361-5.
W. James, Frederic Myers's Service to Psychology, P. xvii. 13-23.
N.W. Thomas, Reminiscence of a long-forgotten Language, J. xi. 16-8.
Unprejudiced Testimony, J. xi. 160-4.
F. C. S. Schiller, The Answers to the American Branch's Question-
naire regarding Human Sentiment as to a Future Life, P. xviii.
416-53.
E. Dunbar, The Light thrown on Psychological Processes by the
Action of Drugs, P. xix. 62-77.
Rev. A. T. Fryer, Psychological Aspects of the Welsh Revival :
1904-5, P. xix. 80-161.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 55
Rev. J. W. Hayes. Case of Trance with Ooiitiniious Memory, J. xii.
156-9.
J. A. Hill, Mrs Eddy, J. xiii. 169-76, 199-203.
E. BuUough, Mental Types : a Suggestion for Experiments, J.
xiv. 84-9.
F. C. Constable, Professor Bergson and Mind, J. xvi. 146-8.
Alice Johnson, A Further Report of Mr Griinbaum's Experiences,
J. xvii. 43-52.
C. G. Jung, The Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits, P.
xxxi. 75-93.
W. McDougall, Presidential Address, P. xxxi. 105-23.
M. Gheury de Bray, Hypnopompic Pictures, J. xx. 256-8.
Sir 0. Lodge, Brain and Speech, J. xxi. 264-9.
Capt. Q. C. A. Craufurd, Brain and Speech, J. xxi. 353-8.
F. E. Leaning, An Introductory Study of Hj^nagogic Phenomena,
P. XXXV. 287-411.
F. C. Constable, Memory, J. xxii. 23-6.
Hypnagogic Phenomena, J. xxii. 146-54.
F. E. Leaning, Hypnagogic Phenomena, J. xxiv. 19-24.
H. F. Saltmarsh, Notes on the Psychology of Nonsense Names, J.
xxvi. 5-8.
ii. Dreams
S.P.R., Circular No. 2 : On Dreaming and Allied States, P. i. 303-5.
R. H. Busk, Coincidental Dreaming, J. i. 226-37.
Cases of Subliminal Memory in Dreams, J. xi. 97-100.
Dream Romances, J, xiii. 90-6.
F. van Eeden, A Study of Dreams, P. xxvi. 431-61.
V. J. WooUey, Some Auto-Suggested Visions as illustrating Dream-
Formation, P. xxvii. 390-9.
L. P. Jacks, Dramatic Dreams, J. xvii. 178-83, 202-3.
F. C. S. Schiller, More about Dreams, J. xviii. 2-3.
E. S. Thomas, Dramatic Dreams, J. xviii. 4-6.
Alice Johnson, Dream-Analysis, P. xxx. 33-133.
iii. Hallucinations
E. Gurney, Hallucinations, P. iii. 151-89.
H. Sidgwick, The Census of Hallucinations, P. vi. 7-12.
H. Sidgwick, Ad Interim Report on the Census of Hallucinations,
P. vi. 183-5.
H. Sidgwick, Second Address on the Census of Hallucinations, P. vi.
429-35.
H. Sidgwick, Second ad Interim Report on the Census of Hallucina-
tions, P. vi. 661-4.
56 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
H. Sidgwick and L. Marillier, Tliiid ad Interim Report on tlie Census
of Hallucinations, P. vii. 259-67.
H. Sidgwick, and others, Report on the Census of Hallucinations,
P. X. 25-422.
H. Gale, A study in Spiritistic Hallucinations, P. xv. 65-89.
Case of Subjective Hallucination, J. xi. 127-31.
E. Westlake, A Traditional Hallucination, J. xi. 191-3.
J. Honeyman, On certain Unusual Psychological Phenomena, P.
xviii. 308-22.
J. G. Piddington, [Pathological and veridical Hallucinations], P.
xix. 267-341.
An Auditory Hallucination probably due to Association of Ideas,
J. xii. 23-8.
Hallucinations experienced in connection with Dying Persons, J.
xiii. 308-12.
J. G. Piddington, A Case of Hallucination, J. xiv. 136-43.
Case of Recurrent Hallucinations associated with Ill-Health, J.
XV. 90-5.
J. A. Hill, Fever Visions and Auditions, J. xvi. 235-40.
Hallucinatorv and other Experiences of a Young Child, J. xviii.
231-5.
G. H. Estabrooks, Two Cases of Induced Auditory Hallucination,
J. xxiv. 99-101.
iv. Hypnotism and Suggestion
W. F. Barrett, and others. First Report of the Committee on Mes-
merism, P. i. 217-29.
E. Gurney and F. W. H. Myers, Second Report of the Committee on
Mesmerism, P. i. 251-62.
Appendix to the Report on Mesmerism, P. i. 284-90.
W. F. Barrett and E. Gurney, Third Report of the Committee on
Mesmerism, P. ii. 12-23.
E. Guxney, The Stages of Hypnotism, P. ii. 61-72.
E. Gurney, The Problems of Hypnotism, P. ii. 265-92.
Mrs M. A. Pinhey, A Case of Mesmeric Rapport, J. i. 133-42.
E. Gurney and F. W. H. Myers, Some Higher Aspects of Mesmerism,
P. iii. 401-23.
Local Anaesthesia induced in the Normal State by Mesmeric Passes.
P. iii. 453-9.
F. W. H. Myers, Human Personality in the Light of Hypnotic
Suggestion, P. iv. 1-24.
E. Gurney, Peculiarities of certain Post-Hypnotic States, P. iv. 268-
323.
E. Gurney, Stages of H)^notic Memory, P. iv. 515-31.
126] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 57
F. W. H. Myers, Note on Certain reported Cases of Hypnotic Hyper-
aesthesia, P. iv. 532-9.
E. Gurney, Recent Experiments in Hypnotism, P. v. 3-17.
The Connection of Hypnotism with, the subjective Phenomena of
Spiritualism, P. v. 279-87.
Hypnotism : its Conditions and Safeguards, P. vii. 137-40.
J. Delboeuf, De I'Appreciation du Temps par les Somnambules, P.
viii. 414-21.
Account of a Hypnotic Subject, J. viii. 157-63.
J. G. Dill and C. T. Green, Dipsomania and Hypnotism, P. xi. 18-23.
C. M. Barrows, Suggestion without Hypnotism, P. xii. 21-44.
J. M. Bramwell, James Braid : his Work and Writings, P. xii. 127-66.
J. M. Bramwell, Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena, P. xii.
176-203.
J. M. Bramwell, What is Hypnotism ?, P. xii. 204-58.
A Case of the Cure of Warts by Suggestion, J. viii. 7-10, 40-1, 96,
226-7.
M. Prince, A Contribution to the Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis,
P. xiv. 79-97.
The Cure of Warts by Suggestion, J. ix. 100-4.
M. H. Mason, The Cure of Warts by Suggestion, J. ix. 225-7.
A. Alexander, A Cure of Paralysis by Hypnotism, J. ix. 238-41.
E. Greenwood, Some Experiments in Hypnotism, P. xvii. 279-89.
Case of the Cure of Warts by " Charming ", J. xi. 273-6.
The Cure of Warts by Suggestion, J. xii. 313-6.
T. W. Mitchell, The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules, P. xxi.
2-59.
Curing by Self-Suggestion, J. xiii. 191-2.
A. Warndorfer, A Cure by Suggestion, J. xiii. 302-8.
T. W. MitcheU, The Hypnoidal State of Sidis, P. xxv. 338-52.
G. Lowes Dickinson, A Case of Emergence of a Latent Memory under
Hypnosis, P. xxv. 455-67.
W. F. Barrett, Some recent Hypnotic Experiments, J. xv. 178-88.
Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Some Cases of the Removal of Pain and Induc-
tion of Sleep by non-Hypnotic Suggestion, J. xv. 298-308.
S. Wilkinson, Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice, P. xxvii.
370-89.
F. K. Girdlestone, A First Experiment in Suggestion, J. xvii. 220-30.
S. Alrutz, Problems of Hypnotism, P. xxxii. 151-78.
S. E. Hooper, An Experimental Study of the Appreciation of Time
by Somnambules, P. xxxiii. 621-64.
W. E. LesKe and S. Alrutz, Concerning Dr Alrutz's Hypnotic Experi-
ments, J. xxi. 177-84.
F. H. G. van Loon and R. H. Thouless, Report of a Demonstration
of Experiments on Hypnotism, P. xxxvi. 437-54..
58 Classified List of the Contents of the [part
V. Multiple Personality
F. W. H. Myers, French Experiments on Strata of Personality, P. v.
374-97.
T. Barkworth, Duplex Personality, P. vi. 84-97.
F. W. H. Myers, Multiplex Personality, P. iv. 496-514.
F. W. H. Myers, Further Notes on the Unconscious Self, J. ii. 122-31,
234-43.
R. Hodgson, A Case of Double Consciousness, P. vii. 221-57.
H. Gale, A Case of alleged Loss of Personal Identity, P. xv. 90-5.
M. Prince, The Development and Genealogy of the Misses Beau-
champ, P. XV. 466-83.
A. Wilson, A Case of Multiple Personality, P. xviii. 352-415.
W. McDougall, The Case of Sally Beauchamp, P. xix. 410-31.
Dual Personality in the Case of William Sharp, J. xv. 57-63.
T. W. Mitchell, Some Types of Multiple Personality, P. xxvi. 257-85.
T. W. Mitchell, A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality, P.
xxvi. 286-311.
T. W. Mitchell, The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality, P.
xxxi. 30-74.
W. F. Prmce, A Footnote to Dr T. W. Mitchell's Review of the Doris
Case, J. xix. 257-62.
vi. Psychotherapy
A. T. Myers and F. W. H. Myers, Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the
Miracles of Lourdes, P. ix. 160-209.
Rev. A. T. Fryer, The Holywell " Cures ", J. vii. 85-93.
Faith-Healing, J. xi. 49-52.
T. W. Mitchell, Some Recent Developments in Psychotherapy, P.
xxiv. 665-86.
The Case of Edith Ballard, J. xv. 308-12.
The Lourdes Cures, J. xxvii. 165-7.
vii. The Subconscious
F. W. H. Myers, The Subliminal Consciousness, P. vii. 298-355, viii,
333-404, 436-535, ix. 3-128, xi. 334-593.
Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time, J. v. 294-5, 308-10,
320-1 ; J. vi. 79-82.
F. Podmore, Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration ?, P. xi,
317-32.
W. R. Newbold, Sub-conscious Reasoning, P. xii. 11-20.
F. W. H. Myers, Pseudo-Possession, P. xv. 384-415.
F. W. H. Myers, The Range of the Subliminal, J. ix. 289-92.
Methods of Subliminal Mentation, J. x. 47-8, 61-2.
A. Glardon, Subconscious Reckoning of Time, J. x. 93-5.
]26] Society's Proceedings and Journal to June 1932 50
S. Freud, A Note on the Unconscious in Psycho-Analysis, P. xxvi.
312-8.
B. Sidis, The Theory of the Subsconscious, P. xxvi. 319-43.
C. E. Long, The Psychoanalytic use of Subliminal Material, P. xxx.
1-32.
T. W. Mitchell, Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis,
P. xxx. 134-73.
E. S. Thomas, The Registering of Sub-conscious Impressions, J. xix.
198-201.
W. F. Prince, A Case of Apparent Obsession, P. xxxviii. 388-99.
I
THE PAST AND THE FUTURE i
Presidential Address
By Sir Oliver Lodge
A Society is rather like an organism in that it has a continuity of
existence with constant changes in its individual members : and in
its lifetime there occur certain periods at which it is well to review
the past and contemplate the policy of the future. For it is well
known that an organism has to make changes so as to correspond
with and adapt itself to its new environment if the circumstances
of that environment are modified. I was not actually an original
member of the Society, but had been acquainted with its Foimders
before its initiation, and heard some of the preliminary discussions
about it. The conditions in which it took its origin were in many
respects much more difficult than they are now. The Foimders had
to encounter not only hostility, but a good deal of ridicule. Its
objects, however, as specified by Henry Sidgwick, were so entirely
sane and cautious as to make ridicule quite inappropriate. Htunour
of that kind was entirely wasted, and was only based on complete
ignorance of the scheme. But hostilitv was more serious, and some
of it has persisted to the present day. The most serious kind of
hostility was based not on ignorance but on disapproval, disapproval
of the slow and cautious procedure and of the stringent criticism to
which all narratives were subjected before they were accepted for
publication. From its early days there were, among the members,
some who were already convinced about many of the phenomena,
and who urged that so extremely cautious and dubious an attitude
was inconsistent with facts already known and tested, and that
the Society might proceed more rapidly to accept these as estab-
lished. The names of Alfred Russel Wallace and Stainton Moses
were prominent among those who had already been convinced of the
genuineness of certain extraordinary phenomena, either by a study
of the evidence or by their own first-hand experience, and they
showed a certain amount of impatience at the cautious and critical
attitude of the Founders. They urged that we were excluding or
refusing to accept a number of events which were actually taking
place, and were neglecting to study them for lack of sufficient and
cimiulative e\'idence. And some of them broke away from the
E
^ Read at a General Meeting of the Society, 29 June 1932.
61
62 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
Society on that account. This attitude of impatience has continued
to our own day, so that our Society has been called a Society for the
Suppression of Psychical Eesearch.
While sympathising with these objectors to some extent, I hold
that the policy of the Founders, which has been consistently followed
throughout the fifty years of our history, was entirely appropriate
to the then conditions obtaining in the scientific world and in the
strongly materialistic atmosphere of the nineteenth century. No
notion of the existence and interaction of a spiritual world with the
familiar world of sense could then be entertained by the average man
of science. And the few who were ready to uphold such a hypothesis,
and perceive evidence of spiritual interaction in all manner of pheno-
mena, were looked at askance, and were accused of returning to the
primitive superstitions of savages without anything like an adequate
foundation for their beliefs. The Founders, however, were aware that
many phenomena which superficially bore a spiritistic significance
rnight be accounted for by unexplored and exceptional human facul-
ties ;
and they did not wish to contemplate any further hypothesis
until the possibilities of this mode of explaining them had been
exhausted. Their object was to treat all phenomena submitted to
them in a purely scientific spirit. They aimed at founding a scientific
society, which would gradually take its place among other scientific
societies, each of which had chosen for its province a certain depart-
ment of knowledge, and to explore it by the same methods as had
already proved so fruitful in other departments. This aim has been
steadily kept in mind by the officers of the Society, and we have
been fortunate in our Secretary, Miss Isabel Newton, who has carried
on the old tradition with exemplary patience and suavity, and, more-
over, has exerted herself most competently to make the meetings
held in connection with the present jubilee celebrations a success.
This mode of regarding our work, and this cautious and critical
policy, was advocated by Henry Sidgwick in his early Presidential
Addresses to the Society. But the same view was held and sustained
by Myers at a later date, eighteen years later, right up to the end of
the nineteenth century, and is recorded in his great work, which
appeared five years after his death, his majestic treatise on Human
Personality. This is so large and comprehensive a book that many
people are probably deterred from entering on a study of it, and I
doubt if it is familiar even to our own members. Saturated with the
knowledge of abundant testimony from all parts of the world, and
prepared by his co-operation with Edmund Gurney in the pre-
paration of their joint book called Phantasms of the Living, he had
planned out a scheme for applying his idea of human personality,
its faculties and its possibilities, to all the salient facts of observation,
and accordingly sets them out under their respective heads. He
127] The Past and the Future 63
deals first with the cases of multiple personality, or what he calls
disintegrations of personality, studied by the medical profession
under the meaningless term " hysteria " ; then he goes on to a
remarkable treatment of genius ; then to sleep, and the amount of
lucidity to be detected in its dream phenomena ; then to the
artificial production of a condition akin to sleep known as hypnotism.
Thence he is led on to what he calls Automatisms, both sensory and
motor, which cover a great many of our more familiar non-medical
phenomena. Then he extends the idea of phantasms of the living to
phantasms of the dead, and so reaches the phenomena most specially
studied by this Society, in a chapter called " Trance, Possession,
and Ecstasy," where he allows himself to diverge from a rigid
scrutiny of the facts, and foreshadows a transcendental view of the
universe, with surprising eloquence, which he extends into a magni-
ficent Epilogue, with which the book closes ;
except that there are a
great number of appendices, one of which contains his comprehen-
sive scheme of human faculty classified from one end to the other.
That is the general plan of the book, but it is too bulky and in many
places too eloquent for ordinary readers. The whole scheme is
foreshadowed and led up to in Chapter I, which he calls an Introduc-
tion. And if this Introduction were mastered by our members, they
would have a much better idea of the aim and objects of our Society
and of the position and hopes of at least one of our Founders than
without that study they can be expected to have. For it must be
remembered that, although Myers was able and anxious to study all
the faculties and activities of the human personality for which there
was evidence, his main interest and motive power was concerned
with its survival of bodily death ; and to this day this must be
considered the question that interests most of our members. I will
make a few extracts from this Introduction for the purpose of show-
ing how a student like Myers, eagerly anxious for proof of survival,
proceeds on his task.
' The question for man most momentous of all is . . . whether or
no his personality involves any element which can survive bodily
death."
In approaching that question he advocates
" the method which our race has found most effective in acquiring
knowledge . . . the method of modern Science—that process which
consists in an interrogation of Nature entirely dispassionate, patient,
systematic ; such careful experiment and cumulative record as can
often eUcit from her sUghtest indications her deepest truths. That
method is now dominant throughout the civilised world ; and
although in many directions experiments may be difficult and
dubious, facts rare and elusive, Science works slowly on and bides
64 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
her time,—refusing to fall back upon tradition or to launch into
speculation, merely because strait is the gate which leads to valid
discovery, indisuptable truth.
" I gay, then, that this method has never yet been applied to the
all-important problem of the existence, the powers, the destiny of
the human soul."
He goes on to say that many learned minds hold the resolutely
agnostic view " ignoramus et ignorabimus The object of the
S.P.R., he says, is to break down that artificial wall of demarcation
which has thus far excluded from scientific treatment the problems
which stand in most need of all the aids to discovery. Yet he admits
that
" Any science of which I can here speak as possible must be a
nascent science—not such as one of those vast systems of connected
knowledge which thousands of experts now steadily push forward in
laboratories in every land—but such as each one of those great
sciences was in its dim and poor beginning, when a few monks groped
among the properties of '
the noble metals,' or a few Chaldean
shepherds outwatched the setting stars."
He next touches upon the religious objection to our researches,
—
that the doctrines of Christianity have rendered them unnecessary,
—
and shows why in a purely scientific investigation that great Tradi-
tion must not be appealed to. He admits that
" an event occurred which in the brief record of man's still
incipient civilisation may be regarded as unique. A life was lived
in which the loftiest response which man's need of moral guidance
had ever received was corroborated by phenomena which have been
widely regarded as convincingly miraculous, and which are said to
have culminated in a Resurrection from the dead. To those pheno-
mena or to that Resurrection it would at this point be illegitimate
for me to refer in defence of my argument. I have appealed to
Science, and to Science I must go ; —in the sense that it would be
unfair for me to claim support from that which Science in her strict-
ness can set aside as the tradition of a pre-scientific age. Yet this
one great tradition, as we know, has, as a fact, won the adhesion and
reverence of the great majority of European minds. . . . [So it was]
that the Christian religion, the Christian Church, became for Europe
the accredited representative and guardian of all phenomena bearing
upon the World Unseen."
The priests therefore were satisfied and sought no independent
evidence of a spiritual world. Yet such evidence from time to time
there was. Gurney made a study of much of its literature, and
Swedenborg had direct apprehension of a spiritual world as
" before all things a realm of law ; a region not of mere emotional
127] The Past and the Future 65
vagueness or stagnancy of adoration, but of definite progress accord-
ing to definite relations of cause and effect. For my own part I
regard Swedenborg,—not, assuredly, as an inspired teacher, nor
even as a trustworthy interpreter of bis own experiences,—but yet
as a true and early precursor of that great inquiry which it is our
present object to advance."
Then he goes on to say that Crookes was the first to apply the
methods of modern science to the spiritual world, and remarks how
often his (Myers's) own conclusions concur with conclusions to
which the scheme known as Modern Spiritualism had previously
arrived. And yet, he says, coming down to present-day contro-
versies,
" this work of mine is in large measure a critical attack upon the
main Spiritist position, as held, say, by Mr A. R. Wallace, its most
eminent living supporter,—the belief, namely, that all or almost all
supernormal phenomena are due to the action of spirits of the dead.
By far the larger proportion, as I hold, are due to the action of the
stall embodied spirit of the agent or percipient himself. Apart from
speculative differences, moreover, I altogether dissent from the con-
version into a sectarian creed of what I hold should be a branch of
scientific inquiry, growing naturally out of our existing knowledge.
It is, I believe, largely to this temper of uncritical acceptance,
degenerating often into blind credulity, that we must refer the lack
of progress in Spiritualistic literature, and the encouragement which
has often been bestowed upon manifest fraud,—so often, indeed, as
to create among scientific men a strong indisposition to the study of
phenomena recorded or advocated in a tone so alien from Science."
Here we come to the crux of the matter which concerns us now, the
differences between those in favour of Spiritualism as a religious
creed and those who regard psychical research as a branch of scien-
tific enquiry. The first group is that of the Spiritualists proper,
people who glory in the title, and apply the methods in their religious
worship. The attitude of Myers in this connection is instructive to
us to-day. He goes on to speak of the feelings and intentions of the
Founders of the Society in an instructive paragraph about the
attitude of the early founders in
" 1873~at the crest, as one may say, of perhaps the highest wave
of materialism which has ever swept over these shores—[saying that]
it became the conviction of a small group of Cambridge friends that
the deep questions thus at issue must be fought out in a way more
thorough than the champions either of religion or of materialism had
yet suggested. . . . What seemed needful was an inquiry of quite other
scope than the mere analysis of historical documents, or of the
origines of any alleged revelation in the past It must be an inquiry
66 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
based on the uniformitarian hypothesis ; on the presumption, that is
to say, that if a spiritual world exists, and if that ivorld has at any epoch
been manifest or even discoverable, then it ought to be manifest or dis-
coverable now."
He then begins his analysis of the Self, too long to quote further,
first contrasting the views of Reid the philosopher, and Ribot the
physiologist, as to the identity of a self or the nature of personality,
and begins his great doctrine of the Subliminal Self, and what part
this underground or subconscious portion of ourselves has to play
in the phenomena that are being studied.
" The '
conscious Self '
of each of us, as we call it,—the empirical,
the supraliminal Self, as I should prefer to say,~does not comprise
the whole of the consciousness or of the faculty within us. There
exists a more comprehensive consciousness, a profounder faculty,
which for the most part remains potential only so far as regards the
life of earth, but from which the consciousness and the faculty of
earth-life are mere selections, and which reasserts itself in its pleni-
tude after the liberating change of death."
He guards against the idea that he is speaking of any function of
the bram, distinguishing clearly between the mind and the brain.
He also guards against the American parody of his view, elaborated
by Thomson J. Hudson in a well-written and much read work, that
there are two correlative and parallel selves co-existing always within
each of us. In Myers's view our organism is not so framed as to
afford the whole self full manifestation. And he proceeds to show
how this subliminal self hypothesis may account for many of the
phenomena which had been thought to justify the immediate action
of an external spiritual world.
" We can afiect each other at a distance, telepathically and if
our incarnate spirits can act thus in at least apparent independence
of the fleshly body, the presumption is strong that other spirits may
exist independently of the body, and may affect us in similar man-
ner."
He thus leads direct into the controversy most active at the present
time, and seeks to hold a balance between the views of the extreme
spiritualists, on the one hand, and of the enquirers into psychical
faculty, on the other.
Before concluding the chapter Myers considers what changes have
occurred smce the research began, and what our present policy ought
" Ten years ago there was most evidence for telepathy between the
living ;
fiext most for phantasms of the dead ;
least, perhaps, for
that actual possession and control of human organisms by departed
127] The Past and the Future 67
spirits, which of all our phenomena is likely to be the hardest for
the scientific mind to accept,—since it carries us back to the most
outrageously savage group among the superstitions of the early
world. With the recent development of trance-phenomena, however,
this semblance of logical proportion has been quickly altered."
" It seems to me now that the evidence for communication with
the spirits of identified deceased persons through the trance-utter-
ances and writings of sensitives apparently controlled by those spirits
is established beyond serious attack."
" The point from which we started was an analysis of the latent
faculties of man. The point towards which our argument has carried
us is the existence of a spiritual environment in which those faculties
operate, and of unseen neighbours who speak to us thence with
slowly gathering power. Deep in this spiritual environment the
cosmic secret lies."
Finally he asks whether we can learn anything in this way on the
relation of spiritual phenomena to Space, to Time, to the material
world. As an illustration, he takes the physical law that action at a
distance is impossible.
"A body can only act where it is. . . . But once get beyond pon-
derable matter,—once bring life and ether into play, and definitions
become difficult indeed. The orator, the poet, we say, can only act
where he is ; —but where is he ? He has transformed the sheet of
paper into a spiritual agency. . . . Telepathy indefinitely extends
the range of an unembodied spirit's potential presence."
He then speaks of the influence of our new knowledge on the idea
of Time, our memory of the past and our possible precognitions of
the future, a subject which is attracting special attention still.
Finally he touches on the influence exerted by spirit on the gross
material world, in other words what we call psycho-physical
phenomena.
" We know that the spirit of a living man controls his own
organism, and we shall see reason to think that discarnate spirits may
also control, by some form of '
possession,' the organisms of living
persons,—may affect directly, that is to say, some portions of matter
which we call living, namely, the brain of the entranced sensitive.
There seems to me, then, no paradox in the supposition that some
effect should be produced by spiritual agency—possibly through the
mediation of some kind of energy derived from living human beings
—upon inanimate matter as well."
But he admits that the testimony in favour of such phenomena is
spoilt by the mass of worthless narratives with which they have been
in some sense smothered ; the long history of so-called investiga-
tions which have consisted merely in an interchange of creduHty and
E3
68 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
fraud ;
though there are a few well-attested phenomena which seem
prima facie to demand the physical intervention of discarnate
intelligences.
All this that I have quoted and much more is contained in Myers's
Introduction and in the Introduction only. I have called attention
to this chapter because it is well worthy of being reproduced in
accessible form. It is a kind of overture to the performance of the
rest of the book, an overture to all our researches since. The evidence
for physical phenomena has increased since his day ; but how much
of it is trustworthy it is hard to say. I myself am convinced of
telekinesis, by direct observation. It is the thin end of the wedge,
and may be the introduction to a multitude of semi-physiological
phenomena, which at present—though in many respects repellent
—
scientific men feel more inclined to investigate than they do the
better established psychical phenomena which Myers mostly dealt
with. But in admitting telekinesis, I have no adequate explanation
of it, only hypothesis, which has to run the gauntlet of criticism.
The scientific world in general does not yet admit the fact. It is
very liable to wait for some rational explanation before doing so.
We have learnt not to trust the evidence of our senses in directions
which seem either inexplicable or impossible or absurd. There are
experiments which are not worth performing, such as experiments
with goats on the top of the Brocken : and many scientific men con-
sider that attempts at telekinesis are in that category. Faraday said
that we must make up our minds as to what is possible and what
impossible. I don't agree, and yet I find myself doing it in some
cases. Sir George Stokes would not attend to Crookes's demon-
stration of an unsuspected force. There are traces of that irrational
kind of scepticism in all of us.
When I was recently in Bavaria, I was told in good faith, though
with some superlatives, about the powers of certain simply-living
peasants and monks and the way in which they could do miraculous
things. Their dowsing faculty seemed extraordinarily developed ;
and they had a theory that rays emanated from water and other
objects and operated on the rod. They went further, and said that
where two underground streams crossed, the rays were unhealthy to
human organisms, but that by burying certain substances in the
ground, these rays could be either deflected or rendered harmless ;
so that a place which had been deleterious became exceptionally
healthy. All this was more than I could swallow, although I was
told with an abundance of personal testimony. And yet it needs
investigation, if the result is only to find out what has caused these
strange and incredible beliefs. It requires an efiiort to keep one's
mind open ; but there is no doubt that the only right attitude for a
person with an open mind is the one which has been advocated
127] The Past and the Future 69
throughout by the Founders of our Society ; and I will again make
an extract from Myers, in Vol. II, page 304:, to emphasise it.
" To most of my hearers I doubt not that this forecast of a coming
co-operation between incarnate and discarnate spirits will have
seemed speculative and premature. . . . But one point is clear. . . .
We must maintain, in old theological language, that tlie intellectual
virtues have now becoDie necessary to salvation. Curiosity, candour,
care ; —these are the intellectual virtues ; —disinterested curiosity,
unselfish candour, unremitting care. These virtues have grown up
outside the ecclesiastical pale ;
Science, not Religion, has fostered
them ; —nay. Religion has held them scarcely consistent with that
pious spirit which hopes to learn by humility and obedience the
secrets of an unseen world. Here surely our new ideals suggest not
opposition but fusion. To us as truly as to monk or anchorite the
spiritual world is an intimate, an interpenetrating reality. But its
very reality suggests the need of analysis, the risk of misinterpreta-
tion ; the very fact that we have outgrown our sacerdotal swaddling-
clothes bids us learn to walk warily among pitfalls which call for all
the precautions that systematic reason can devise."
Myers goes on to specify the pitfalls more particularly.
" Upon a new scheme of beliefs, attractive to the popular mind as
the scheme which I prefigure, a swarm of follies and credulities must
inevitably perch and settle. Yet let those who mock at the weak-
nesses of '
modern Spiritualism '
ask themselves to what extent
either orthodox religion or official science has been at pains to guard
the popular mind against losing balance upon contact with new facts,
profoundly but obscurely significant. Have the people's religious
instructors trained them to investigate for themselves ? Have their
scientific instructors condescended to investigate for them ? Who
should teach them to apply to their '
inspirational speakers '
any
test more searching than they have been accustomed to apply to the
sermons of priest or bishop ? What scientific man has told them
enough of the hidden powers within them to prevent them from
ascribing to spiritual agency whatever mental action their ordinary
consciousness may fail to recognise as its own ?
" The rank and file of Spiritists have simply transferred to certain
new dogmas—for most of which they at least have some compre-
hensible evidence—the uncritical faith which they were actually
commended for bestowing on certain old dogmas, —for many of
which the evidence was at least beyond their comprehension. In
such a case ridicule is no remedy. The remedy lies, as I have said, in
inculcating the intellectual virtues ; —in teaching the mass of man-
kind that the maxims of the modern savant are at least as necessary
to salvation as the maxims of the mediaeval saint.
70 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
" Now here, I take it, lies the special, the characteristic duty of the
Society for Psychical Research. . . . Our own more special duty is to
ofier, through an age of transition more momentous than mankind
has ever known, that help in steadying and stimulating psychical
research all over the world which our collective experience should
enable us richly to bestow. Such function ought, I say, to be ours
indeed. We alone have taken the first steps to deserve it. I see our
original programme completely justified. I see our raison d'etre
indisputably established. I see all things coming to pass as we fore-
saw. What I do not see, alas ! is an energy and capacity of our own,
sufficient for our widening duty ; —enough of labourers for the vine-
yard so ripe for harvest. Aye. the competent labourers are still too
few and too old. Let us welcome those younger people who have
seriously entered on the task of exploration. The energy is with
them, the wisdom is doubtless growing. To them we must be con-
tent to hand on the torch and encourage them in their strenuous
and thankless task. Myers appeals broadly for sympathy and
understanding co-operation with equal confidence to savant and to
saint.
" To the savant we point out that we are not trying to pick holes
in the order of Nature, but rather, by the scrutiny of residual pheno-
mena, to get nearer to the origin and operation of Nature's central
mystery of Life. . . .
" To the Christian we can speak with a still more direct appeal.
'
You believe,' I would say, '
that a spiritual world exists, and that it
acted on the material world two thousand years ago. Surely it is so
acting still.'
"
And then he goes on with an eloquent and oft-quoted meditation
concerning the constantly asserted insignificance or triviality of our
phenomena.
" Out of the long Stone Age our race is awakening into conscious-
ness of itself. We stand in the dawn of history. Behind us lies a
vast and unrecorded waste—the mighty struggle humanam condere
gentein. Since the times of that ignorance we have not yet gone
far ; a few thousand years, a few hundred thinkers, have barely
started the human mind upon the great aeons of its onward way. . . .
The traditions, the intuitions of our race are themselves in their
infancy ; and before we abandon ourselves to brooding over them
let us at least first try the upshot of a systematic search for actual
facts. For what should hinder ? If our inquiry lead us first through
a jungle of fraud and folly, need that alarm us ? As well might
Columbus have yielded to the sailors' panic, when he was entangled
in the Sargasso Sea. If our first clear facts about the Unseen World
seem small and trivial, should that deter us from the quest ? As
well might Columbus have sailed home again, with America in the
127] The Past ayul the Future 71
ofl&ng, on the ground that it was not worth while to discover a con-
tinent which manifested itself only by dead logs."
I will quote no more. Let that suffice to show what the aim of our
Founders was, and what our continued duty is.
But now I must ask whether any change has occurred in our sur-
roundings during the thirty years that have elapsed since Myers
wrote, and whether any modification in the behaviour of our
organism can be wisely made, so as to adapt itself better to its new
environment. At the time of founding the Society, the scientific
world was actively hostile. I do not think it is equally hostile now.
A few individuals recently were actively hostile, but most of them
have now proceeded to a stage where presumably trustworthy in-
formation is more accessible, and where they probably find that they
were mistaken. Among the younger men, now, some respectful
interest is shown in our researches, though most of them are deterred
from entering on the enquiry from a feeling that their time and
energies are fully occupied in more immediately remunerative pur-
suits. The scientific world is very active now in all its branches, and
many feel that their energies are better expended for the moment in
following up lines of orthodox enquiry. But orthodoxy constantly
changes its outlook, and the folly of one generation is liable to become
the commonplace of another. It is our business to hold on steadily
in our course until in due time some approach to this stage is reached.
We cannot make ourselves responsible for the statement that such
and such a phenomenon really did occur : the most that we can say
is that such and such a scientific man was convinced of its occur-
rence. The weight to be attached to such conviction will depend
upon our other knowledge of the man himself and his position in the
scientific world : it is not possible for anyone to attain a high posi-
tion in that world without long continued experience in the percep-
tion of relevant facts. A report is never absolutely complete : no
scientific statement is ever infallible ; the body of accepted scientific
doctrine is always fluid and changing and alive, never rigid infallible
and dead.
We want to be courteous, not to scientific men only, but to all
co-workers, whether we are able to agree with them or not, so long
as they are honest. Take such a man as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
for instance ; he must have sacrificed something to enter upon an
unpopular enquiry. He was doing his best according to his lights,
and though he may seem to us deficient in judgment, he was abound-
ing in energy, and put some of us to shame. We need not accept the
results of such men or believe their doctrines, but I think we should
be careful not to alienate them, and turn them from criticising friends
into implacable enemies. I do not know that we are to blame for the
hostility of Conan Doyle towards the end of his active and vigorous
72 Sir Oliver Lodge [part
life ; but he was a simple-hearted bluff man, who, having begun by a
training in medicine and as an agnostic, ultimately became an almost
undiscriminating enthusiast for what he believed to be spiritual
truth, or what he conceived to be the truth, and devoted himself to
spreading a knowledge of it throughout the English-speaking world.
His methods of propagation may have been injudicious, they cer-
tainly were not ours ; and he was much more convinced of a spiritual
explanation of all our phenomena than we are. Individuals and
organisations may rightly emphasise different sides or aspects of the
subject, but they can work in harmony nevertheless. I am glad that
we of the S.P.R. work in harmony with the L.S.A. at the present
time, and am glad to reckon both Mrs de Crespigny and Mr David
Gow among our members.
There is a suggestion that I want to make, or rather put forward as
a subject for discussion concerning procedure in our changed environ-
ment. We have hitherto in our corporate capacity entertained no
corporate conviction, and reported no progress, unless indeed we
have committed ourselves to a corporate belief in telepathy. Many
of us are now similarly convinced of the reality of a spiritual world
and of its interaction with this world. I wonder whether it would be
premature to say so, and thus show that we are working not merely
towards some unknown and perhaps unprofitable end, but are really
in our own opinion making progress.
Our enterprise began with an enquiry into obscure human facul-
ties, but has gradually drifted, partly under Myers's guidance, into
an enquiry into evidences for survival. At first these evidences in
our published reports turned mainly upon those extensions of human
faculty with which Myers dealt in his book. But now we want to ask
whether our experience of trance-utterances and communications
received from departed members on the other side have not enlarged
our views and given us direct evidence that they are living and
active. For my part I believe that that is true, and the time will
come when we must admit the fact and say so ; thus doing justice
to their efforts at giving unmistakable proof of their continued
activity. I suggest that that time has now arrived, and that during
the next fifty years we might announce this as a verified hypothesis,
and use it as an explanation of occurrences in which it is evidently an
operative factor. For the way to verify a hypothesis which has some
modicum of uncertainty about it is to use the hypothesis in practice,
and test it by applying it in all suitable directions, so as to see if it
will stand the strain of confrontation with fact. In this particular
field I know no other hypothesis that will stand the strain and cover
the ground equally well.
But I know that there still are difficulties. Some of them have
been recently emphasised by Mr Soal. For instance, he has had
127] The Past and the Future 73
communications from apparently a completely fictitious character :
and again he has had messages from a man who turned out to be
living in the flesh, and who knew nothing about the sending of those
messages. Yet the strange thing is that the facts narrated in the
messages were veridical—that is, they were either true at the time,
or were going to be true in the near future.
For this anticipation of the future in some detail we find rather a
considerable body of testimony. Experience of the past, as if we
were present, is strange enough : as narrated in An Adventure and
similar works. But appearances or statements in the present which
are only going to be fulfilled in the future are still more incredible.
The nature of time and space are, it so happens, under discussion
among modern physicists to-day. Some of them hold that they are
subjective abstractions, having no objective reality. The question
of causality is mixed up with this discussion ; and the doctrines of
fixed fate, predestination, determinism, and free will, are all now
subject to debate, not only on the philosophic side, but even on
physical grounds. It seems to me that our researches are more
likely to give information on these topics than are more orthodox
facts. The question of our relations to space was raised by Myers, you
remember, in connection with telepathy and travelling clairvoyance.
Our relation to time is a still more difl&cult problem. Mr Dunne has
attempted an experimental attack upon it by means of dream
experience, and probably there is much more that can be done in
that direction. I am glad to say that our admirable librarian Mr
Besterman is giving us the benefit of his great knowledge and is co-
operating with Mr Dunne in this research. Prediction by inference
from the present is familiar enough. The other ordinary kind of
prediction is prediction by planning. Every instance of precognition,
should be criticised to see if there is more than can be explained by
either of these causes. I think there are some, and any that exist
must be profoundly instructive to those who study the subject.
Mr Dunne is by no means the only one who has attended to the
question of precognition. A church door and some other details
were mentioned as belonging to a house in which it was said I was
going to live, and in which I am now living. The prediction was
made at a time when I knew nothing of the existence of the house,
and when, as afterwards transpired, no door was there. A church
door was independently, and so to speak accidentally, added by the
landlord, who was not the landlord at the time of the prediction,
and who knew nothing about it. Nor did I know anything about
the house or enter into its occupancy until a period of some seven
years had elapsed. Incidents of this kind, of which there are several
in our records, can hardly be explained as prediction based on
inference. They may possibly be contemplated in terms of planning,
74 Sir Oliver Lodge [part 127]
but it would need to be a supernormal planning on the part of in-
telligences in a spiritual world. Either that, or our notion of time
must be overhauled, and the connection between past, present, and
future, radically reconsidered.
Our spirits seem to transcend space relations, as evidenced by
travelling clairvoyance. The question arises, Do they ever transcend
time relations too ? We have not yet solved the mystery of the Gor-
don Davis case.
Our enquiry has led us in many directions which at present are
puzzling, because we have not yet the clue. Yet who would wish it
otherwise ? The history of science is full of such quandaries, and
in many of them we have found that persistent exploration, though
it never removes all mystery, yet shifts it in a direction to which we
have grown more accustomed : and we thus get some kind of satis-
faction if we persevere.
In conclusion, I will take this opportunity of once more affirming,
what I have often assured bereaved persons of, that the human spirit
is not limited to its incarnation in the matter of this planet, but that
it has a cosmic and permanent existence quite apart from its dis-
carded material organism which it constructed and used for a time
as its instrument of manifestation. Although it can no longer mani-
fest itself easily to our earth-bound animal senses, and has therefore
gone beyond our normal ken, yet as an individual spiritual entity
it continues amid other surroundings, with its memory, character,
and affection intact ; a departed person still has a power to help
struggling humanity, and can occasionally communicate with those
left behind, either by their own receptive powers or by the vicarious
aid of some privileged person who is willing and able to act as a
receiver. We have still much to learn about the condition of what
we call the future life, on which we shall all enter at the appointed
time ; but we have testimony that people are freer and happier
when they have thus got rid of their bodily troubles ; that their
departure is not an event to be unduly mourned ; and that both we
and they may await reunion with a placid and equable mind :
meanwhile not ceasing from eiiort, but doing our duty and attending
to mundane requirements for the remainder of our earth life.
PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHICAL RESEARCH i
By William Beown, M.A., M.D. (Oxon.), D.Sc. (Lond.), F.R.C.P.
In beginning my lecture on the relationship of psychology to
psychical research I hope yon will allow me to be slightly autobio-
graphical. My interest was aroused in the subject of psychology in
direct relationship to psychical research by F. W. H. Myers's Human
Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death. That took me from
science to philosophy. It caused me as an undergraduate at Oxford
to give up my scientific work temporarily in order to do Classical
" Greats," and in the process to take up psychology as a special
subject in order to learn more about it and understand better what
F. W. H. Myers was writing about.
I should like the central topic of this lecture to be F. W. H.
Myers's theory of the subliminal self—which formed the background
of his own investigations in psychical research and continues to be
the background of the work of great researchers like Sir Oliver
Lodge and other experts in the science—and to compare and con-
trast it with the modern doctrine of the psychology of the uncon-
scious mind. These two theories are not identical, as Sir Oliver
Lodge pointed out in an aside in his Presidential Address to this
Society. It is true that when Myers began developing his theory he
had before him the work of such medical psychologists as Pierre
Janet and the early work of Breuer and Freud. But his own theory
of the subliminal mind aimed at giving an adequate explanation of
every type of abnormal phenomenon in regard to mental activity. It
sufficed to collate the facts of pathological psychology, especially
the most outstanding manifestations of hysteria and the causation of
hysterical symptoms ; and it also sufficed to give a preliminary or
suggestive account or explanation of supernormal phenomena,
including the phenomena of genius and of intellectual and artistic
inspiration. The modern theory of the unconscious mind, of course,
has different forms and has undergone a continuous process of
development at the hands of medical psychologists, but it is con-
cerned almost entirely with an explanation of subnormal pathological
disturbances of consciousness.
Corresponding with this dift'erence in aim, there is a difference of
implication. Whereas modern exponents of the doctrine of the un-
conscious look confidently to the time when they will be able to
^ Read at a General Meeting of the Society, 4 July 1932.
76 William Brown [part
correlate these unconscious mental mechanisms with physical
processes in some part or other of the brain, Myers certainly did not
envisage that possibility. Indeed, the driving idea in his theorising
was to explain manifestations that were apparently beyond the
possibilities of organised matter to produce. He felt, as so many
others feel at the present day, that all forms of genius transcend
mere physical activity, that the mind is ahead of the body, is in
advance of the brain, and all that the brain has to do in any activity
of genius is to preserve the after-efiects of that activity, to lay down,
as it were, the traces of the activity of genius fari passu with such
activity. Thus Myers's theory is distinctly a spiritualistic and ideal-
istic theory, which takes the mind as more real than the body, and
the theory in modern psychology that corresponds to that is such a
theory as I myself hold, of the mind being wider than the brain. It
may be said that the brain is related to the mind as the shadow of an
object is related to the object itself. Just as an object in three
dimensions can throw a shadow in two dimensions, and every point
seen in the shadow will correspond to some point or other in the
solid object, and any movement in the solid object is mirrored by
changes in the shadow, and yet nevertheless the solid object is
greater than the shadow, so, it seems to me, is the mind as compared
with the brain. The mind is a form of activity that involves at
least one more dimension than does the brain. That extra dimension
is free activity, though, of course, limited in its scope, and this addi-
tional dimension may eventually be correlated with further change
in our conception of the physical nature of the brain.
That is where the modern doctrine of space-time comes in. It is
sometimes considered and has often been suggested of recent years
that the advances made by the theory of relativity and the quantum
give us greater scope in explaining conscious activity, conscious
freedom, and the prediction of the future ; but I venture to suggest
that such a generalisation is rather premature. I had the oppor-
tunity of asking the author of the theory of relativity what was his
view as to the relationship between space-time and psychological
time, and I was not at all surprised when he replied that from
his point of view as a physicist there was no relationship. In
psychological time there is not only sequence of experiences but an
awareness of sequence, and such a relationship as that is not ex-
plained by the modern theory of space-time.
Nevertheless, I would venture to suggest that there is a relation-
ship between the two which will become apparent in years to come.
The consciousness is related to an extremely complex physical
structure, namely, the brain, and experience of time—present, past,
and future—seems to be boimd up with extremely complicated
physical processes. Whereas before the formulation of and the
127] Psychology and Psychical Research 77
theory of relativity the problem was to correlate the temporal
changes in space of physical bodies or particles with the experience
of sequence, the problem now is to correlate that experience of
sequence with the system of space-time events in the brain. In
any case, as far as physics and physiology go, the possibilities open
out before us of a further explanation of the mind in its relationship
to physical change—an explanation which will have to wait for still
greater discoveries, not only in physics, but in cerebral physiology,
before they can be regarded as solid additions to scientific knowledge.^
During the last fifty years—the period of existence of the Society
for Psychical Research—great advance has been made in the psycho-
logical study of the abnormal mind. We understand more clearly
the nature of the dissociation that occurs in hysteria and the relation-
ship between mental symptoms and the underlying causes of those
symptoms. We find that in the mind things are not always what
they seem, and that often an unintelligible mental symptom, such
as an obsession or a feeling of compulsion, is related to very early and
deep-seated events and experiences of childhood which have under-
gone repression and distortion in various ways. It is along those
lines that the conception of the unconscious mind has grown up to
explain the phenomena of hysteria and the phenomena of other
forms of psychoneurosis. It was inevitable that the relationship
should be noticed between hysteria as a functional disturbance of
the mind accompanied by dissociation and characterised by ready
hypnotisability, with the manifestations often found in medium-
ship. The medium has been regarded by many psychologists as a
case of hysteria with mental dissociation, the control of the medium,
often boasted of or possessed, being regarded as a split-ofi personaUty
of the individual, and in many cases as a regression or stepping-back
towards a more infantile reaction towards life. It is quite true that
that parallel did seem to hold on superficial glance. We have on the
one hand Morton Prince's most striking case of multiple personality,
that of Miss Beauchamp, where the Sally Beauchamp, the co-con-
sciousness, was in all probability a regression to a more infantile
type of reaction towards life. Sally corresponded to a care-free child
of 13 or 14, and when Sally disappeared eventually through the use of
hypnosis, she was got rid of by Morton Prince keeping her below the
threshold of consciousness and tying her up in that way, sending her
back whence she came, namely, to the infantile stratum of the un-
conscious.
Then we have a distinguished medium like Mrs Osborne Leonard,
1 In this connection reference should be made to the extremely interesting
phenomena of seeing the past and the future, respectively, described in
Adventure, Miss Moberly and Miss Jourdain, and in An Experiment with Time,
J. W. Dunne.
78 William Brown [part
possessing a control, " Feda," who is apparently of a childisli nature
and may psychologically be regarded as a regression in relation to
Mrs Leonard's adult consciousness. If I speak there as though I
agreed with this theory, I hasten to add that it is only a very super-
ficial way of describing and envisaging the facts, and what we have
to consider is the possibility that this relationship is not anything
like so close as those who have not made much direct study of
mediums are ready to believe.
In France during the war I was fortunate enough to be neurologist
to the Fourth Army on the Somme, and there I saw between 4,000
and 5,000 cases of severe nervous illness. Of these cases, 15 per cent
were of pronounced hysteria, with loss of memory and other forms
of functional dissociation. These men were easily hypnotisable, so
that I was able to hypnotise more than 600 cases in France, putting
them into a definite second sleep-like state, where they were quite
different from the normal, and would wake up with complete loss of
memory of what had been happening during their sleep, unless one
had suggested that they should remember. Quite a number of these
600 cases showed mediumistic or clairvoyant characters.'- I tested
this in a number of patients who on being hypnotised appeared
to become clairvoyant. They would pass into a dream-like state,
dreaming of events at the ordinary rate, not at the rate at which
dreams generally occur, but at the rate of waking life. I recall one
such case in particular. A man dreamed he was back in his native
city of Liverpool, where he saw his father and mother walking along
one of the principal streets in the evening on their way to the cinema-
house. He followed them and stood in the queue while they got their
tickets, following them also into the auditorium, and noticing the
title of the film on the screen. In this particular case verification
was not possible, because the man went down the line and replies to
my queries never reached me. In many other cases one got similar
results, and in certain of these cases I was able to get independent
evidence from the relatives at home as to what was happening at
that time at home. In some of the cases there was no correspon-
dence whatever, in others there was some amount of corres-
pondence. But these people were very definitely in a state of hyp-
nosis, definitely abnormal or pathological. They did not all show
this tendency towards apparent clairvoyance. Moreover, a certain
number of them seemed to have powers of telepathy as far as one
could test them, while others had not. Thinking over those past
experiences, I now consider that they indicated, not by any means an
identity between the hypnotic state and the state of mediumship,
but simply that a certain small proportion of hypnotisable cases
showed clairvoyant and telepathic powers.
^ Science and Personality, 1929, pp. 184-193.
127] Psychology and Psychical Research 79
Since then I have had the opportunity of seeing a number of
mediums at work frequently, and I have been able to go further in
my deductions. I am inclined now to think that in the cases of
successful mediumship there is very little evidence of hysteria,
though I think there is some such evidence. The procedure of going
into a trance is similar to the procedure of self-hypnotisation, and
the appearance of the control is similar to a procedure whereby
some infantile tendency emerges from the subconscious mind.
But the later effects, such as the messages which come through,
must be considered, too, for their own sake and on their own merits,
and the mere fact that there is this resemblance to hysteria, and
the further fact that so many hysterics have no powers of telepathy
or clairvoyance at all, mean that we must either regard the medium
as a special type of hysteric, or that the medium is a type distinct
altogether, with the characteristic of self-hypnosis as an additional
one. The latter is the view I hold at the present day, influenced
mainly by my experiences with Mrs Osborne Leonard. I have had a
large number of sittings with that lady. The first four sittings were
carried out through the kindness of Sir Oliver Lodge and his secre-
tary in such a way that Mrs Leonard did not know me at the time,
and the sittings were reported by a stenographer who did not know
me and whom I did not know. Those four first interviews afforded
an enormous amount of information. Mrs Leonard had apparently,
through Feda, got into touch with four people on the other side, the
only four people in whom I had felt any special interest. The whole
thing, of course, can possibly be explained in terms of telepathy ;
undoubtedly a good deal of telepathy was taking place, but here
again we are faced with another alternative, of the explanation in
terms of telepathy and in terms of agency of discarnate spirits.
If I may now turn to experiments on telepathy and the work done
by the Society for Psychical Kesearch, together with that of the
Boston Society in America, and other bodies during the last thirty or
forty years, I would point out that whereas in some of the earlier
experiments the evidence for telepathy seemed very abundant, so
that it was regarded as not only definitely proved but very wide-
spread, more recent experiments with larger groups of cases un-
doubtedly show that telepathy is not a widespread phenomenon.
I am thinking of the special work of Mr S. G. Soal,^ for the Society
for Psychical Research, in which he dealt with about 600 per-
cipients and used to the full the possibilities of statistical analysis
in drawing conclusions from his data. Those conclusions were
entirely negative. The conclusion to be drawn from that is, not
that telepathy is non-existent, but that when one takes a large
^ S. G. Soal, " Experiments in Supernormal Perception at a Distance,"
Proceedings S.P.R., xl. 165-362.
80 William Brown [part
munberof cases at random, or almost atrandom, the negative results
—
that is, the failures—swamp the successes to such an extent that the
results show nothing of the activity of telepathy. But we know from
statistical work in other domains of psychology—I am thinking of
the special work with mental tests—that the statistical method is
dangerous. It is two-edged. Although helpful from the mathe-
matical point of view, it must be combined with extreme care on the
material side—the side of the psychological material with which one
is dealing. If one tests people at random and tries to work out
correlation coefficients in different directions, carrying out the tests in
such a way as to encourage the action of chance as much as possible,
the correlation coefficients will be extremely low ; on the other hand,
if the material be selected in view of the problem being studied,
then the statistical results become much more precise. They begin
to show a helpful mathematical precision, and one can draw con-
clusions from one's data, as is now being done in Professor
Spearman's school.
In the same way further advance will be made, using statistical
methods, in investigating telepathy by a more careful study of the
individual case and a more careful selection of data. I am sure that
Mr Soal himself would be the first to agree with that, so we must not
contrast his results too readily with the results of earlier investi-
gators. The latter have been obtained rather along the lines of
intensive study of individual cases and the gradual accumulation of
corroborative evidence. This evidence appears in many of the Society's-
publications. All that cumulative evidence is unshakable, and
furnishes a sufficient scientific foundation for the theory of telepathy.
Fortunately, just at the moment when these more recent negative
results might discourage one, there comes from America some very
important work done with Mr and Mrs Upton Sinclair and Mrs
Sinclair's brother-in-law, Mr R. L. Irwin, which is described in.
Mental Radio and analysed carefully by Dr Walter Prince in one
of the latest monographs of the Proceedings of the Boston Society for
Psychic Research.^ Here the evidence seems to be overwhelming as
to the existence of telepathy in certain special cases. I will give one
example. The first correspondence that Mrs Upton Sinclair had.
with her brother-in-law, Mr Irwin, who was working thirty miles
away, was as follows. It was agreed that he should draw an object
and think of it for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, and that Mrs.
Sinclair should be lying on a couch in semi-darkness, making her
mind a blank, ready to receive the corresponding impression. The
impression which she received was that of a chair with horizontal
supports at the back, and, a moment later, of a chair with vertical
1 The Sinclair Experiments Demonstrating Telepathy. By the Research.
Officer. Bulletin xvi, Boston Society for Psychic Research, 1932.
127] Psychology and Psychical Research 81
supports, and then, feeling that the first chair was more probable
than the second, she thought that the chair with vertical strips at
the back was similar in appearance to the foot of Mr Irwin's bed. She
also gathered the impression that the drawing was on green paper.
The facts were that at that time Mr Irwin had drawn on green paper
the sketch of a chair with horizontal strips at the back, and had been
looking at the actual chair through the foot of his bed, which con-
tained vertical strips.^ If you analyse a correspondence like that
you will find that there are a large number of different elements, and
that the probability is against all those different elements simul-
taneously coming together. The probability against that occurring
by chance is simply enormous. Compound probability is estimated
through multiplication, so that, for example, if there is a one-tenth
probability of either of two events occurring, the probability against
both events happening is 100 to 1. That again illustrates the great
difficulty in experiments with large numbers. The difficulty is tc get a
unit of measurement so as to allow adequately for the correspondences.
Similar laboratory experiments have been done with playing
cards, to test the phenomenon of clairvoyance (Miss Ina Jephson),
and in very large numbers the results have been negative. The fail-
ures have more than wiped out the effect of the successes. But there
again the same argument holds good. Nevertheless it was important
that these investigations should have been carried out. If they had
not been carried out by the Society for Psychical Research they
would certainly have been carried out by those antagonistic to the
Society and held up as disproof of telepathy and clairvoyance. But
a closer study in the light of statistical theory shows that the results
by no means rule out the occurrence of telepathy and clairvoyance,
all that they do is to emphasise the rarity of such events under
experimental conditions.
These negative results are important, specially important to us,
because in recent years the tendency has grown up to explain away
all evidence for survival by citing telepathy and clairvoyance by the
living. When we have material brought forward claimed to be an
evidence of survival, the reply of the critics is that it is only tele-
pathy or clairvoyance. They are only too ready to bring forward
that explanation, as if the factors of telepathy and clairvoyance were
of very wide-reaching application. If we find, on the contrary, that
they are greatly restricted, that diminishes the probability that a
complicated telepathic explanation can be accepted for the evidence
of survival, and correspondingly increases the strength of the evi-
dence on the other side.
A few days ago I had an interesting example of telepathy, or at
least so it seems to me. I was talking to a man of high classical
1 Op. cit., pp. 9, 10.
82 William Brown [part
attainments, and we were discussing the " Prometheus Vinctus " of
Aeschylus, especially that phrase in the first speech of Prometheus
after he has been bound to his rock, the phrase, badly translated in
English as " many-twinkling smile of ocean," but more literally and
more elegantly " the innumerable laughter of the waves of the sea."
As I thought of the English translation there came to my mind the
(imaginary) Greek word TroXvyeXacriuLa—a reminiscence of a school-
boy howler I made many years ago. The actual Greek phrase is
irovTiwv T€ KU/mriTwi'
avi']piQfxov yeXucrfxa (U. 89-90).
But the first expression came to my mind, I did not articulate it, I
just thought it, and, a moment later, like an echo, there came from
this classical scholar the word TroXuyeXacriua. Immediately after-
wards he said, " I do not know why I said that. Of course it is wrong.
There is no such word." He is inclined to agree with me that it was an
example of telepathy. The alternative explanations would be either
coincidence, that we both thought of 7roXuyeXa<Tiu.a, which is improb-
able ; or that he made a mistake, as I made it when a boy, but then you
must remember that he was a classic who would certainly not make
that blunder ; and there is the further alternative possibility that I
whispered it, and he heard the involuntary whisper, but I think that
can be ruled out.
My own experience of telepathy has generally been with cases in
which I have been the agent, and not the percipient. The results
I got with Mrs Leonard were probably due to the fact that I was the
agent and Mrs Leonard the percipient. I get a number of examples
with nerve patients, who are receiving suggestion treatment,
while they are lying j^assive on a couch screened ofE from the rest of
the room, their muscles relaxed, and their minds in an empty state.
They frequently tell me that in such a state, in semi-darkness,
pictures come to their minds, and such pictures sometimes correspond
to events actually happening on the other side of the screen. One
special case so impressed a patient of mine who was receiving this
treatment that he wrote it down ready to be sent in to the Society,
but I had not time to complete the account. I will give it to you now.
The day after the treatment, when he came to me again, he asked
what I had been doing at the desk during the previous day's treat-
ment. He asked me whether I was reading a particular journal,
" Because," he said, " I had a vivid picture of a scientific journal,
with two columns, in the form of a letter signed at the bottom." On
reflection, I realised that I had been glancing at Nature, and my eye
had been caught by one of the letters there, because it was signed
over the address " King's College, London." I opened the copy of
Nature and showed it to him—not that particular passage—and he
looked through it, and found the identical letter. It was not that
127] Psychology and Psychical Research 83
he had been able to read the letter while he lay on the couch the
previous day, but the general picture of that letter had appeared to
his mind. He was convinced that it was a case of telepathy and I
am inclined to agree.
The fact that I am mainly the transmitter and not the percipient
may be explained on the ground that my work encourages just that
attitude of mind, in the same way as the work of the medium en-
courages the converse attitude, that of reception. Just as the typical
medium is a typical recipient, so the typical psychotherapist is more
likely to be a transmitter or agent. I just suggest that for further
possible investigations. It is not entirely in harmony with what
other people believe. My friend Dr T. W. Mitchell has suggested
that the sitter in a mediumistic seance is likely to be subject to slight
dissociation, and the medium can thus penetrate into his sub-
conscious, but that is not my general experience.
If we accept telepathy, as I think we must, we have to go on to
consider the conditions under which it occurs, and only when those
conditions are known and can be reconstituted is it really justifiable
to regard telepathy as a proved scientific fact, or at least that would
be a certain stage pending the time when we know certain general
conditions. I probably shall not arouse much opposition in my
audience if I suggest that one premised condition is passivity on the
part of the percipient and activity in the unconscious mind of the
agent. As a rule it is not conscious or voluntary activity on the part
of the agent that produces the best instances of telepathic communi-
cation, but a spontaneous surging up of feeling in the agent's mind,
which is not checked in other ways. If he does make a voluntary
effort he is likely to check the manifestation. I think this is suffi-
ciently probable to explain why in so many cases successes are
apparent at the beginning of the experiments and not later on.
When first a person finds he has apparently telepathic power he is
enthusiastic about it ; later on he is over-anxious to prove his power
and fails to do so. The law of reversed effort, which is so important
to note in suggestion treatment, is at work here.
I come now to the much more debatable class of supernormal
physical phenomena. These phenomena have been extremely
difficult to establish because of the great possibilities of fraud and
conjuring, and of collusion and conspiracy, which are less easy to
detect than in the case of mental phenomena.
Personally, I used to feel extremely sceptical of physical pheno-
mena until an event occurred in my own life that convinced me of
its possibility.^ The first death that occurred in my family was that
of a little child, two and a half years of age. He died in a nursing
home. On the morning of his death I happened to be looking at
1 Science and Personality, pp. 193, 194.
84 William Brown [part
a clock on the mantelpiece in rooms some distance away, when I
heard a loud noise behind me, a sudden bang, as the little boy's
portrait shot off the edge of the piano right across the room. I was
looking towards the clock at the time and I noticed that it was
twenty minutes to eight. Shortly afterwards a telephone message
arrived informing me that he had died. I told my wife of this cir-
cumstance on the way to the nursing home, and when we reached
the home I asked the nurse at what time the death took place, and
she said " Twenty minutes to eight." That happened many years
ago, and it is the kind of event one could not bring oneself to describe
at the time, as I ought to have done, and send in to the Society,
with proper testimony. But I feel no doubt whatever about the
reliability of my memory, and I am strongly convinced that the
event was significant, that it was not merely a chance coincidence.
Therefore I am prepared—more prepared perhaps than many other
scientists—to agree with the possibility of telekinesis.
I have been spending a little time with the medium Rudi
Schneider.^ I had been disappointed with negative results, but I was
fortunate at last to be present at a sitting where definite positive
phenomena occurred. I must testify here that at that sitting I was
convinced that the phenomena could not have been normally
produced by Rudi Schneider himself, and they seemed to be pro-
duced from within the curtained-ofE cabinet. There was no evidence
whatever to indicate that anyone else in the circle could have had a
hand in the production of the phenomena. The circle was a small
one, only seven people altogether, with all of whom I had a previous
acquaintance. Rudi Schneider was adequately controlled by the
sitter at one end, and I was at the other end of the semicircle. I had
on my right Rudi Schneider's fiancee, and I feel confident she was
adequately controlled. As I say, the phenomena occurred—the
appearance and disappearance of flowers and the movement of the
detachable top of a small table across the room—and they seemed
to me to call for a supernormal explanation. But it is one thing to
get a feeling of conviction, and quite another thing to have an intel-
lectual conviction. In order to have the latter and to be justified in
preaching the gospel about it and claiming the evidence as adequate
evidence of supernormal physical movement, one must have
adequate knowledge, and that is really the difiiculty. Subsequent
enquiry and investigation have supplemented my knowledge, and
strengthened my feeling that the phenomena were supernormal.
But further experiments are needed to produce intellectual
conviction.
There is no question here of my withdrawing or modifying what I
1 Through the kiadneas of Mr Harry Price, Hon. Director of the National
Laboratory for Psj'chical Research, to whom my thanks are due.
127] Psychology and Psychical Research 85
have previously stated, but, since I had not full knowledge and con-
trol, it is incumbent upon me to refuse to go further than my record
allows. All one can say is that the phenomena occurred, and one is
baffled and unable to explain why they occurred. Certainly in my
view the medium deserves to be the subject of continued investiga-
tion of the most stringent kind. I would suggest that the only kind
of investigation likely to convince a scientist with an established
reputation in other branches of science would be one in which a
number of scientists of established reputation sat again and again
together with the medium in a room of their own choosing, and with
apparatus of their own devising. And I venture to predict that if
they then got physically positive results, they alone would believe
such results, and other scientists would refuse to believe them.
Whien I related my own experience to one of the greatest scientists
in the world he simply laughed. He agreed that telepathy might
occur, because that was not so easily disproved, but that an object
should be moved at a distance was entirely beyond the bounds of
possibility.
You all know that Dr Eugene Osty^ in Paris has been obtaining
remarkable results with Rudi Schneider, using infra-red rays.
Apparently Rudi Schneider is able to project or build up at a dis-
tance an invisible substance which absorbs or reflects the rays, and
the degree of absorption oscillates at a rate double that of his breath-
ing. Rudi Schneider when in trance breathes at the rate of 150 to
300 times a minute, as compared with the normal breathing rate of
14 or 15 times. Any ordinary person would quickly get apnoea under
those conditions ; but he keeps it up on some occasions for two hours
at a time. Corresponding with that increased frequency of breath-
ing, there is an oscillation in the absorption of these infra-red rays.
There one has a definite physical problem which needs and will repay
investigation, and is likely to throw further light on the nature of
infra-red rays, if not upon the power of the physical organism to
produce changes at a distance.
If we may further venture to theorise, provisionally accepting the
facts of telekinesis, we have two general possibilities before us. This
power sent out by the physiological organism in a state of trance—
the power of telekinesis—may be a liberating thing, a signal sent
out which liberates a particular kind of force that has accumulated
about the object to be moved ; or it may transmit force. Those are
two quite distinct possibilities. In any case, although there has been
much fraud as regards physical phenomena and physical mediums,
yet a case like the one I have described leaves us still hopeful of
further discoveries of a genuine and psychically important nature.
1 Eugene and Marcel Osty, Les Pouvoirs Inconnus de V Esprit sur la Matiere
(Paris 1932).
86 William Brown [part
May I conclude by referring to the general motive that is the
driving force for most people in the investigation of psychical
phenomena, namely, the desire to prove spiritual survival of
bodily death ? It seems to me that at the present day the evidence
for survival which must have most weight with us is the evidence
from philosophical and religious considerations, from the nature of
the human mind, the nature of human values, and the extent to
which survival itself would make life and the whole world process
more rational. I do think that considerations such as these are
sufficient to produce in our minds at any rate an active pragmatic
conviction of survival. On the other hand, psychical research by
itself can go only a little way, even in its most successful manifes-
tations. If it were as completely successful as we hope it will be-
come, even if a sufficient amount of positive data were assembled,
this could only prove the continued existence of mind for some time
after the death of the body. It could not prove immortality, and it
could not throw very much further light on the nature of the future
life. But the opponents of psychical research are very ready to
accuse those who investigate it of a morbidly intense desire to prove
survival—a desire very intense, although partly subconscious, and
capable of producing an illusory feeling of conviction and to disturb
the powers cf observation and to falsify data. Actually, of course, it
seems to me that the scientific researchers are concerned rather with
getting scientific evidence to supplement evidence that they all
accept as really the fundamental groundwork in their religious and
philosophical beliefs. Nevertheless, I thinlc I range myself with our
President, Sir Oliver Lodge, in claiming for the evidence that has
been brought forward by the Society for Psychical Research during
the last fifty years that it is sufficient to make survival of bodily
death, scientifically speaking, extremely probable.
The Chairman (Sir Oliver Lodge) said : We thank Dr Brown
for his important communication. His opinion is likely to carry
great weight with the profession to which he belongs and with the
scientific world in general. He is very cautious, as you see, in his
pronouncements. He has had great experience of a kind which few
of us have had. He has had to deal with many abnormal cases, and
he is impressed with the powers of the subliminal, or whatever we
choose to call it, to produce mental phenomena. Recently he seems
to have been convinced of telekinesis. Well, I am convinced of
telekinesis too, and for somewhat the same reason. Though I have
seen more cases, I think, than he has, I have not seen Rudi Schneider.
But I agree with him that if six scientific men saw these phenomena
and tested them out to the full, while those six would believe in the
result, other scientific men would not. Why is this ? It is because
127] Psychology and Psychical Research 87
they are so convinced that physical action at a distance is impossible.
So am I. But I do not regard telekinesis as physical action at a
distance. If a thing moves, it is always because something is in con-
tact with it and is making it move. The point is to ascertain what
that something is. It may be an ectoplasmic emanation from the
medium, or from the sitter ; but the effect is not going to be con-
trary to the laws of physics. The laws of physics are all right ; it is
the laws of physiology that want explaining. We do not know every-
thing that an organism can do, we have got to find out, and it is
of no use shutting our minds to experiments which show that an
organism can do this sort of thing, by saying that it is physically
impossible. It is a physical efiect consequent on the presence of
a medium, the movement must be produced in accordance with
physical laws and conditions. What other laws there are applicable
to live things, we do not know. We are not aware of all the laws of
Nature. But there is some kind of energy available either in the
organism or outside the organism—it may be controlled by discar-
nate agency,—but there is some form of energy which has moved
that thing. It is a very simple phenomenon in itself, it is very easily
brought to book, it is more simple than a materialisation, and it is
one of the things which is most easily looked into. I think it may
be—I do not know how soon—the physical side of our subject that
the scientific world will begin really to study. I want the biologists
to take it up, especially the physiologists. Until they have had their
say, it is not for a mere physicist to speak. The whole thing is an
extension of physiology.
Well, that has nothing very much to do with the main subject of
the discourse to-night. There is one thing I should like to ask the
lecturer. He was talking of his experience in France when he had a
number of shell-shocked soldiers as patients, and he found they were
very easily hypnotisable. He could induce them to believe at any
rate that they had a clairvoyant faculty, and in one case he mentioned
the man was able to follow his father and mother in a distant city,
watch them go along the main street to the cinema, wait with them
in the queue, and observe the programme and the title of the picture.
I should like to know whether he verified that, and whether it was
true that that happened, that is to say, whether it was really clair-
voyance or all imaginary. If you have an imaginary case of that
sort, where the patient thinks he has got clairvoyance and has not,
how does Dr Brown account for it ? Would he say it was just
imagination, like dreaming without any cause, or would he say that
it was the result of reading somebody's mind ?
Dr Brown, in reply, said : I must thank you for hstening so
patiently to what I fear has been a rather disjoined discourse.
88 William Brown [part 127]
Actually I did wish to end it up by an emphasis upon one particular
factor that seems to enter into all this work, namely, as regards
communications possible with the other world. All the evidence
seems to point to the need of the feeling of love, that love is the
bridge—that if there is going to be any bridge that will take us from
this world to the next, it will be that feeling of love. I cannot help
thinking that in telepathy, too, there is very often a community
of feeling between the two people separated by a distance. That
feeling can fluctuate, and with it may fluctuate the power of relation-
ship between the one mind and the other.
Sir Oliver Lodge has asked me about the nature of the clair-
voyance observed in the war cases. In the particular case I described,
unfortunately, I was not able to get confirmatory evidence, simply
because the man went down the line, and the repUes never reached
me. He promised to write to his people and find out from them
whether those events had actually been taking place at that par-
ticular time, but he left the casualty clearing station before the reply
came, and I heard no more from him. Therefore I have to put that
case down as a negative one. One case which I did investigate fully
gave correspondence, speaking generally, to the extent of about 50
per cent, though I admit the unit of correspondence is very difiicult
to fix. My own impression was that the majority of these hysterical
patients dreamed to order under the influence of suggestion. They
became very suggestable in the hypnotic trance, and if you suggested
to them that they saw things at home they were likely to do so. But
in a minority of cases there seemed to be something more than this,
and my own feeling at the present time is that a certain small num-
ber of people have real mediumistic powers and are able to exert
those powers to the best advantage in a state of mild self-hypnosis.
128] Review 119
moving for a short distance over the underlying muscles and
bones. ..." " It is, however, clear," they add, " that the hands,
which are not secured at all, have a very considerable latitude of
movement, depending on the flexibility of the wrist joints." They
continue, " We [Dr WooUey and Mrs Brackenbury] have made
experiments under this method of control [Mrs Brackenbury
representing the medium] and have satisfied ourselves that it is by
no means difficult to move the table about and to handle and lift
up any objects placed upon it." They therefore concluded that the
method of control is ineffective. But it was felt to be important
" in judging the value of the sittings in question to knov/ if there
is any definite evidence that the objects were in fact so handled.
It is the chief purpose of this paper," they say, " to present what
we believe to be such evidence." As it is rather long and complicated,
however, I do not propose to summarise it here, though I agree with
the conclusion of the writers. Readers can if they like find it carefully
set forth in Proceedings, xxxix. 358-368. I may, however, say that
at the end of one of the sittings a lump of wax was found to have on
it an impression which, having regard to all the circumstances set
out in Proceedings, could only have been made during the time the
medium was tied up in the chair. " On comparing it with the
impressions of the medium's fingers which she Idndly allowed [Dr
Woolley] to take while she was in London we [Dr WooUey and Mrs
Brackenbury] found that it was quite certainly the impression of
her right index finger."
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
ON A xAlETHOD OF SILHOUETTE PHOTOGRAPHY BY
INFRA-RED RAYS FOR USE IN MEDIUMISTIC IN-
VESTIGATION
By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
In tlie present condition of research on mediumistic phenomena of
the physical kind, it is all-important to have objective records.
The opinion might almost be ventured that nothing else will be of
any use to advance the subject. The investigations of E. and M.
Osty ^ on Rudi Schneider's phenomena have given a strong lead in
the direction of using infra-red rays : it ajopears that these rays are
far less inhibitory of the phenomena than rays capable of affecting
the eye. In MM. Osty's work, the diminution of intensity of the
infra-red beam when partly intercepted by the psychic agency ^ has
been observed. This method, using a photo-electric cell as indi-
cator, has the great advantage of giving an immediate indication
of what is happening, as well as allowing a graphic record to be
made at the same time. The attempts made so far to combine this
with ordinary photography have given the valuable negative result
of showing that the medium was doing nothing suspicious, but have
not shown anything positive. It seems that a flooding of the room
with visible light has a prejudicial effect—at all events it was found to
cause the infra-red beam to pass again in full intensity. The obstruct-
ing agency had apparently melted away under the influence of light.
Great improvements in plates for infra-red photography have
recently been made by Messrs Ilford, and the idea readily suggests
itself of flooding the room with infra-red light instead of visual
light, and taking a photograph thereby.
It will be desirable to consider in the first place in some little
detail what is meant by infra-red light, and with what degree of
perfection it can be separated from visible Light.
The term infra-red is somewhat indefinite. If we examine a
source, such as a slit in the shutter through a prism, we shall see a
spectrum which is brightest in the yellow-green region, and less
bright in the red. The red itself gradually tails off into deep red,
and then into invisibility : but exactly where complete invisibility
sets in it is difficult to say. Much will depend on the particular
^ Les Pouvoirs inconnus de Vesiwit sur la matiere (Paris 1932).
2 It is not the object of tliis paper to discuss the nature of this agency,
but rather to indicate the details of a method of finding out more about it.
F 89
90 Lord Rayleigh [part
arrangement usetl : i'ur example, if we cut off the brighter parts of
the spectrum by using a red glass, we shall see the red of the spectrum
extending beyond the position at which it would otherwise be lost
:
again the extent of red which can be seen will depend on the bright-
ness of the source.
Careful experiments made by Helmholtz, with the conditions as
favourable as possible, led him to place the limit of visibility at
the wave length 8120 Angstrom units, but it is very difficult to see
as far as this, and conventionally wave lengths somewhat shorter,
say from the Fraunhofer line A of the solar spectrum at 7661
Angstroms, are spoken of as infra-red. It is to be understood,
however, that they are not absolutely invisible, unless the intensity
is low. On the other hand, if the intensity is low enough, any kind
of light will become invisible. We see therefore that the distinction
between red and infra-red light is not a very clear one.
The distinction is in practice still further blurred by the circum-
stance that we have no very efiective method of making a clean-cut
separation at any particular wave length.^ The resource available
in practice is to use colour filters, which transmit one v/ave length
and suppress another. Such filters can rarely be made to give a
very clean cut. There is an intermediate region of the spectrum
where transmission is partial. If we are too particular about cutting
off all the visible light from a source we may reduce the infra-red
more than is desirable.
The filter which has usually been employed in infra-red photo-
graphic work is cobalt-blue glass, and I do not think it is probable
that anything much better can be found. It will seem at first a
paradox to recommend blue glass, but the blue light transmitted
is readily cut off by superimposing a red glass upon it. The impor-
tant point is that cobalt glass cuts off bright red and transmits
deep red and infra-red. If we choose a judicious thickness, we shall
reduce the red to a very small amount, and leave the infra-red
without too serious a diminution. For example, if we take 1 cm.
thickness of Messrs Schott's blue glass B.G.3, the transmission as
given by the manufacturers' data is as follows :
1 It is possible to do this effectively for some purposes by means of a spectro-
scope, but this method sacrifices too much of the light which it is desired to
retain to be of general use in infra-red photography, except of the spectrum
itself.
Wave Length Angstroms. Fraction transmitted.
7000
7750
8500
9500
10500
0-0
0-343
0-817
0-538
0-122
128] On a Method of Silhouette Photograjjhy 91
We see that the infra-red transmission is a maximum at about 8500.
This is not very far from the region of maximum infra-red sensitivity
of the plate.
It is not practicable to reduce the visible light transmitted so far
that we cannot see, e.g. the filament of an electric lamj) through the
filter. Indeed, it appears that this is not desirable. The ini^ra-red
sensitivity of the plate has a " peak " value at about 8000 Ang-
stroms, and, as we have seen, visibility extends somewhat beyond
this point : so that if we made the source comjjletely invisible we
should sacrifice much of the best sensitivity of the plate, which
sensitivity is for a region venj nearly invisible. This is illustrated
by Fig. I, the ordinates of which show the sensitivity of the plate,
while the abscissae show the wave lengths. This curve has been
6,5 7p 7f 8p 815
9p
t
Fig. I.
The sensitivity of Messrs Iliord's infra-red plate. The arrow shows tlie limit
of visibility according to Helmholtz.
kindly supplied by Messrs Ilford. I have added an arrow showing
the limit of visibility according to Helmholtz.
Although we can see the filament of the lamp, we cannot see
anything illuminated by it. To illustrate by a more familiar case,
the stars themselves appear bright enough. Not so the landscape
illuminated by them.
It will be seen from these considerations that there are practical
difficulties in the way of flooding the room with invisible infra-red
rays of a quality that will allow us to take a photograph with short
exposure. The trouble is that the kind of infra-red rays to which
the available plates are sensitive are not separated from the rays
which are visibly red by a wide enough interval in the spectrum to
allow of a complete cut. To flood the room with infra-red rays of a
suitable quality will inevitably introduce an appreciable amount of
visible light along with them. If we wish to take anything like an
instantaneous exposure, the amount of visible light will probably
be greater than the general experience at mediumistic sittings
indicates as allowable.
92 Lord Rayleigh [PAET
It might seem at first sight as if we had arrived at an impasse,
but there is an alternative method. This is to take a silhouette of
the invisible substance as it invades the infra-red beam. We take
it from Osty's experiments that the infra-red of 10,000 A or less
can be absorbed and therefore screened o'K by the invisible sub-
stance to an important extent, and at the same time that this kind
of radiation can be tolerated. It appears probable therefore that a
silhouette can be obtained. The very great advantage of this
method is that the whole of the infra-red beam can be made to
enter the camera lens and contribute to the formation of a picture.
Contrast this with the more obvious method of photography by an
extraneous lens of an object bathed in the infra-red beam. In this
case we utilise the light diSusely reflected or scattered by the
invading object. The light is scattered in all directions. We could
put a number of cameras over a wide range of positions in the
room, and it is obvious that only a very small fraction of the
scattered light could enter any one of them. Hence the exposure
required is enormously longer than in the other case.
It is true that in this way we can only get the outlines of a uni-
formly opaque object, but at the present stage of the enquiry this
limitation may perhaps not be so very serious. A material, such
as a gauze fabric used for the fraudulent production of " ectoplasm,"
should show its structure as well by this method as by any other.
In order to realise the silhouette method with advantage, we must
make use of a field lens which will focus the radiant upon the
camera lens. The camera lens will be focussed upon the region in
front of the field lens, or upon the field lens itself, the two lenses
and the radiant being coaxial.
The diagram. Fig. II (not drawn to scale), shows the principle.
The radiant will not be seen upon the plate, being entirely out of
focus. The object will be seen in focus, provided that it is a reason-
able distance away from the camera lens. This requires that the
field lens should be of long focus, several times that of the camera
lens. One limitation of the method is that the field of view is no
bigger than the area of the field lens. A lens of very large size is
expensive, and may require the use of longer distances than an
ordinary room will allow of.
The lens does not require anything like the accuracy of figure
that must be given to a telescope objective ; nor is there anything
gained by making it achromatic, since for one reason amongst
others, only red or infra-red light comes into question. A simple
plate-glass lens of the common greenish-coloured plate-glass answers
all purposes. The ordinary methods of manufacture give an amply
good enough figure. I chose 1 foot diameter for a trial of the method.
The lens should be double convex, and it was decided to make the
On a Metliod of Silhouette Photog^'aphy
.source:
Fig. II. Field Lens
^' Object
Lens
IMAGE ON PLATE
94 Lord Rayleigh [part
focal length three times the diameter, i.e. 3 feet.^ The all-over
distance from source to camera lens must be (as a minimum) four
times the focal length, thus 12 feet.^
As regards the choice of a photographic lens, I have used a
doublet of about 5J inch focal length, of the kind commonly supplied
with quarter-plate cameras, and containing a shutter between the
component lenses. This gave an image of 0-9 inch diameter on the
plate. It is not desirable to make the image of the field lens larger,
by using a camera lens of longer focus, for if this is done the avail-
able light will be spread over a larger area, and the exposure will
have to be increased accordingly. It is better to enlarge the small
picture in printing.
As already mentioned, the light entering the photographic lens
is a beam of small cross section, the section of it being an equal-
sized image of the source. Since the source is small, the full aperture
of this lens is by no means utilised : in fact, we are virtually using
the lens as if it were heav 1/ stopped down.^ Owing to this virtual
stopping down of the lens, we get great depth of focus, and in fact
the silhouette of a hand or other object held three feet away from
the field lens (halfway towards the camera) is quite good, even if
the camera is focussed for an object close to the field lens. The size
of the field is, of course, greatest near the field lens. A coarse wire
gauze placed there is convenient for focussing.
The small picture of 0-9 inch diameter by no means fills a quarter
plate, and the camera should have what is called a repeating back,
allowing the dark slide to be slipped along so that three or four
pictures can be taken on the same plate.*
It remains only to give details of the source of light, and of the
infra-red filters. The source was an incandescent lamp placed in a
1 The cost of the lens was £5 10s.
^ If a much larger lens were to be employed, it would be advisable to con-
sider whether the focal length should not be made less than three times the
diameter. The advantage would be in avoiding such long distances. The
disadvantage would be a probable increase of cost, and a less satisfactory
concentration of the light of the radiant on a small area of the camera lens.
This would mean less depth of focus, or, in extreme cases, a failure of illumina-
tion over part of the field. On the whole it would perhaps be preferable to
use the longer focus, and to get over the difficulty of long distance either by
setting the lens in the door or wall between two rooms, or by using plane
mirrors to bend the rays through a right angle or an acute angle. Naturally
the best plan would depend on the architectural conditions.
^ For this reason a lens of large relative aperture f/4 or f/2, e.g. offers no
advantage in this work.
* If many pictures were to be taken at a sitting to record the successive
phases of phenomenon, it would be best to arrange for a long dark sUde taking
several plates end to end. Devices of this kind have been used by astronomers
in eclipse work, where it is important to avoid the loss of time in changing
plate holders.
128] On a Metliod of Silhouette Photography 95
wooden box, with a hole covered by the filter. It is desirable to
have a small area of radiant, and for this purpose the low voltage
lamps used for motor-car lights, etc., are best. They may be used
with an accumulator, or ofi the electric supply with a transformer
or series resistance, according to circumstances. I have used
twelve-volt lamps taking six watts, but there is, of course, nothing
special about this.
Fig. nr.
The filter, as already explained, consists of cobalt blue glass
combined with red glass. Any red glass of medium depth will do.
The cobalt blue that I have used is " blue uviol " (made by Schott
and Ges., Jena, Germany, BG 3 in their list), in thicknesses of
1 cm., 1-5 cm., and 2-5 cm. The greater thickness is appropriate to
the 30 watt lamp. This glass was used because it happened to be
at hand : but ordinary deep blue cobalt glass sheet ^ will do quite
well, superimposing several thicknesses on one sheet of red. The
appropriate number of cobalt glasses for the lamp used can readily
1 Obtainable from Messrs Hetley, 35 Solio Square. They will cut it
to size.
96 Lord Rayhigh [part
be determined by trial of the photograpliic efiect.^ The light and
filter are correctly proportioned when an exposure of from l/25th
to 1/lOOth of a second will give an adequate photograph.
Fig. Ill is an illustration of the kind of results obtainable. It
represents a hand holding a flower. With light suitable to exposure
times of 1/lOOth of a second, the hand or other object should be
absolutely invisible by diffused light if the person to whom the
hand belongs looks directly at it. It can, however, be faintly seen
in silhouette on the ground glass of the camera, owing to the con-
centration of the rays by the field lens into a small image. The
filament of the lamp can also be seen like a deep red star, if looked
at directly through the filter.
To adjust the apparatus, set up the field lens at a distance from
the lamp equal to about twice its focal length. Remove the blue
glasses, leaving the red in position, and find the image of the source
on a piece of paper. Place the camera so that this image falls on
the middle of the camera lens. It is important for uniform illumina-
tion that the whole of the light should enter the camera. Next
place a piece of wire gauze as a convenient object in front of the
field lens, and focus the camera so that the wire gauze is seen sharply
on the ground glass. The focussing adjustment made with red light
will be nearly enough correct for infra-red. Take away the gauze
and (without altering the focus) make any small movement of the
camera as a whole that may be necessary to get the field entirely
filled with light. Replace the cobalt glasses.
In the use of this arrangement a difficulty will be found which
does not present itself in ordinary photography : how are we to
know in the dark whether there is anything in the limited field of
view to be photographed ? As already mentioned, the shadow
picture can be faintly seen on the ground glass. A reflex camera
allows a picture to be taken inunediately after a view on the ground
glass, and would afford the simplest solution, where it is desired to
avoid the complication and expense of photoelectric apparatus.
The reflex camera might even in some respects be found better.
In a permanent laboratory or seance-Toom photo-electric apparatus
should no doubt be installed. In this case a second incandescent
lamjj may be placed in the same box and behind the same filter as
the lamp used for photography, but say two inches to one side.
The image of this lamp will fall two inches to the side of the other
image, and a thalofide cell or caesium photoelectric cell sensitive to
the infra-red may be placed to receive it (Fig. IV). The photo-
electric current is observed on a galvanometer, either directly or
1 Since writing the above I have seen the infra-red filters supjilied by
Messrs Ilford. They are not so good for our purpose as even the 1 cm. thick
cobalt glass.
128] On a Method of Silhouette Photography 97
o O Sources
3 Filter
Field Lens
r
I.
r.
r.
I •
I
;
I
:
I ;
,<=>0 Photo-electric
>
m
XI
>
Cell
98 Lord Rayleigh [part 128
after amplification. If any obstructing object invades the field of
the large lens, a diminished deflection results. One finger pushed in
at the edge is enough to produce a noticeable effect, though it only
covers a small fraction of the area. In this way a watcher at the
galvanometer knows that something is in view, and can give the
word for a photograph to be taken.
Since a shadow photograph can be taken in 1/lOOth of a second,
it is clear that the cinematograph camera is applicable, if it were
judged worth the expense of having infra-red cinema film specially
prepared. In this way the whole development of niediumistic
phenomena may perhaps be recorded, subject to the limitation of
the field of view.
To sum up, it is shown that instantaneous shadow photographs
can be taken by infra-red rays in what may be described as complete
darkness, the shadow-throwing object being absolutely invisible
when viewed directly. It is hoped that this method may be applied
to mediumistic phenomena of the physical kind.
A BEHAVIOURIST EXPERIMENT IN CLAIRVOYANCE
By Ina Jephson
At the risk of alienating the interest of sceptics, I use the word
clairvoyance as it is popularly used, to denote a supposed faculty
of perception through channels other than the usual channels of
sense. The word is not altogether satisfactory, as so much that is
legendary, unproven and fantastical is associated with it ; some-
times therefore I will call the supposed faculty " intuitive percep-
tion," which does not suggest vision, as does the word clairvoyance,
and so leaves the mind of the investigator free.
In planning this research it was essential to eliminate as much as
possible those mistakes in technique which had invalidated results
of much past work, and to try and avoid the two chief obstacles
which have so far prevented progress in experiments.
The first, and I think the lesser obstacle is fraud, conscious or
unconscious ; under this heading we can include selection of results
and practical joking. This charge of fraud is an inevitable charge
to be brought against successful experiments, the fact must be
faced and the possibility eliminated, however warm may be one's
personal faith in the integrity of one's collaborators.
The second difficulty is this. We have very limited information
as to the conditions under which the supposed faculty of clairvoy-
ance can work. There is one condition, however, which in the
majority of the recorded cases seems to be present, and that is that
the ordinary willed attention is in abeyance, and that the percep-
tion comes from unconscious sources. In experimental work, there-
fore, we seem to be in the paradoxical position of appointing a
specified moment for a sporadic event, and of trying, by the ordinary
methods of attention to induce a perception which most usually
occurs when attention is withdrawn. Possibly the fact that both
these difficulties have seldom been together avoided accounts for
the little progress which has been made. In experiments, for
instance, where fraud was eliminated, it almost always happened
that the attention of the subject was markedly engaged. It seemed
worth an efiiort to design, therefore, a research where both diffi-
culties could be met satisfactorily. In the present inquiry I have
endeavoured to do this by adopting the standpoint of Behaviourist
psychology, for though we may not agree with the theory of that
school, the method may hold new possibilities for studying the
phenomena investigated in psychical research.
100 Ina Jephsou [part
The behavioiirist approacli to j^sychological problems is this :
that we can only observe actions, we cannot observe mind or con-
sciousness ;
actions, therefore, are the proper subject matter of
psychology, and it is on these alone that observations should be
made. Adopting this view, we proceed to study the observable
responses which different situations evoke in living organisms, and
when we correlate our observations we can infer the nature (or at
least the reality) of the connections between situations and response.
A behaviourist research in intuitive perception would be made,
therefore, by confronting the organism, the human subject, with a
series of situations, and by observing the reactions which he makes
to them. Further, if we observe that a reaction takes place when
there is no possibility that the situation or stimulus can affect the
subject through any of the normal channels of sense, we must infer
that this relationship between stimulus and response is made
possible by some other form of perception. In order to make the
results susceptible to quantitative analysis, which is essential for
the purpose, 1 have again used playing-cards. Critics of experiments
with cards object that (even if the intuitive perception of cards were
a possibility) the dull and imemotional nature of a card is enough
to disqualify it as a stimulus. There is ground for this contention
in that most clairvoyant experiences seem provoked by events of
great emotional importance, but there is considerable evidence
(which I shall give shortly) that playing-cards are not completely
unemotional in their effect—so that if we suppose a clairvoyant per-
ception depends on the emotional disturbance associated with it,
we may expect to find, with traces of emotion, traces of perception.
Apart from the clear evidence of experiment, the likelihood that
the different card values are closely linked with symbolic meaning
is strong. All games are, in their nature, a " play " on conflicts and
situations which in real life are serious, and a system of symbolic
personalities and numbers, such as a pack of cards, which has per-
sisted without much change for so long, must be suspected of very
close association with deep-rooted tendencies, and to be psycho-
logically significant.
These natural inferences as to the emotional value of playing-
cards are borne out by the large-scale experiments in card-guessing
reported on from time to time by the S.P.R. It appears that some
cards are persistently preferred, or have more significance than
others, and it is this fact which enables a simple experiment on
behaviourist lines to be devised. For if a certain card regularly
arouses a certain reaction in the person contemplating it, and if we
then find that the same card rouses the same reaction ivhen normal
means of perception are excluded, we shall be forced to assume some
other form of interconnection between the cards and the person,
128] A Behaviourist Experiment in Clairvoyance 101
and that this interconnection can be explained by some hitherto
unacknowledged form of perception.
I can best illustrate the general plan of this research by compar-
ing two experiments. The first is an experiment in normal psycho-
logy, and the second is " intuitive psychology " (not yet an estab-
lished or respectable science).
In the normal psychological experiment the subject is asked to
draw a card at random from a pack of playing-cards which are
lying face upwards before him. The aim of the experiment is to
show that more often than not he will choose the cards which he
likes, that he responds and acts in a special way to special cards.
It is immaterial whether or not he is aware of the preferences
which influence his choice, the experiment will prove that he will
actually draw the cards he likes best.
In the " intuitive psychological " experiment the subject is asked
to draw cards from a pack, but on this occasion the cards will be
face downwards before him, and the opportunity of normal know-
ledge will be excluded. What will happen ? Will he again be found
to have drawn the preferred crds ? If intuitive perception is a
reality, I think we must expect that he will. And if we do find that
he has drawn a preponderance of preferred cards, we shall be forced
to the conclusion that he is unconsciously reacting to an uncon-
scious knowledge of the cards. He is ignorant both of the fact that
he has this knowledge, and that he has been using it, and the
capacity might go forever unnoticed, if we did not turn up the cards
and examine them for signs of a subjective bias.
The behaviourist experiment in intuitive perception ' resolves
itself into the simple task of collecting a large number of cards
drawn at random from packs face downwards, and the analysis will
consist in discovering whether or no preferred cards are drawn
more frequently than unpreferred cards.
It would not have been possible to collect a large number of
drawn cards simply by asking subjects to draw cards at random
from packs face downwards ; the monotony would have been too
great, and unless some pretext were devised the subjects might
have wondered why they were asked to draw, and possibly their
attention might have been on which cards they drew.
In the experiments which follow, therefore, some simple aim,
some pretext was given to occupy the players, sufficient to distract
their attention, and to prevent them from guessing the real aim of
the research.
As I was anxious for the experiment to be made in a rather care-
free mood, and not in a serious frame of mind, a series of parties
was organised so that the games which I devised might be tried.
I am deeply indebted to those people who gave parties so that the
102 Ina Jephson [part
experiments migtt be made, and to those who collected results for
me.
Mrs Worsfold, Miss Carruthers, Mr Foster, Dr Broad, all had
parties at which the games were played. Mr Thomas, the President
of Oxford University S.P.E.., kindly helped, and two parties took
place there. Professor Flugel at University College, and Professor
Murphy at Columbia University, contributed results, and three
parties were held at the Rooms of the Society for Psychical Research.
I made a collection from friends and members of the S.P.R., and
in this way 592 people drew cards from packs face downwards,
yielding a total of 33,995 cards ; an average of 574 cards per
person. To all these people I owe grateful thanks.
All the parties were run on similar lines. Card-tables or tables
without shiny surfaces were placed about the room, and usually an
appointed scorer sat at each table to record the results. When there
were not enough scorers the guests took it in turn to score for each-
other. The games being more or less fraud-proof, the scorers were
merely an added precaution, and an aid to accuracy.
As it is not necessary for the reader to know more than the
general principle of the games, I will here describe only one of them.
The principle of the games was the same throughout, different
games were invented simply to avoid monotony.
In the Card-pairing Experiment the player has a pack of cards
sorted into the four suits. Each suit is shuffled, and for the first
part of the game diamonds and hearts are used. The diamonds
are dealt face downwards in a group, and the hearts are dealt face
downwards in another group.
The player takes a card at random from the diamonds, looks at
it, and tries to find its pair from among the heart group.
The scorer records both cards on the scoring sheet provided (the
diamonds in the diamond column, the hearts in the heart colunm).
A scoring-sheet, filled in as it might be in play, is given below.
Table I
Card-pairing Experiment
Diamonds. Hearts. Spades. Clubs.
1st pair - 3 6 1st pair -
9 9
2nd ,
,
- 5 4 2nd „ -
8 Q
3rd „ - Q 5 3rd „ -
3 7
4th „ 2 1 4th „ -
2 J
5th „ - 10 K 5th „ -
K 3
Name - G. Smith
Scorer - D. Brown
Date - March 7, 1932
128] A Behaviourist Experiment in Clairvoyance 103
Five diamonds are taken in all, and five efforts are made to find
pair-cards from amongst the hearts.
After five couples of red cards have been drawn in this way, the
red cards are put on one side, and the experiment repeated with
spades and clubs.
The reader will realise, when he bears in mind the conditions of
experiment, that for the purpose of research it is only the diamonds
and spades which can be counted as genuine random cards.
The card picked up from the diamond group is a random card,
for the player has no conscious motive in choosing it, but as soon
as he has turned it up and knows what it is, his next card cannot be
a true random card as he now has a defined aim, and fraud or an
accidental sight of the cards may determine his choice of second
card or help him to success. The choice of the first card alone is
innocent of conscious motive and is, therefore, entirely suitable for
use as data. All cards drawn subsequent to the first are of doubtful
value for data, for in experiments where the cards are not replaced
the odds vary so rapidly and in such a complicated manner that
calculations are almost useless.^
In the later part of the game where the black suits are dealt out
we can only count the first spades as legitimate data, the clubs
(which are the second cards to be picked up) suffer from the same
drawback as do the hearts when the red suits are being tried.
The earlier part of the collection was made with fidl packs ;
later, with a view to simplifying the results, with the number cards
in one group, and the court cards in another.
" Distance " series were designed to eliminate the many sources
of error which occur when the cards are accessible to sight or touch
of the players.
The Report is divided into three parts, dealing respectively with
Card Preferences, Experiments with Accessible Cards, and Experi-
ments with Cards at a Distance.
I must first give the necessary information as to the subject of
card-preferences, for it is only when we have definite information
about these that we shall be able to tell whether similar preferences
can be observed amongst cards drawn.
^ It sometimes happened that the pair card had been drawn earlier in the
series of five, thus :
D H
1st pair - - Q 7
2nd „ - - 3 2
3rd „ . . 7
In such case the player is allowed to try for the next value either above or
below, i.e. either a 6 or an 8. It was quite immaterial as success in pairing
was not the aim of the experiment. The rule was made simply for the smooth
running of the game for subjects who were trying to pair the cards.
104 Ina Jepkson [part
These psychological habits are of great interest, I think, quite
apart from the use to which they are put in this research. The
information which we have, and the data which is used in this
research is derived entirely from card-guessing experiments made
by the S.P.R. and published in Proceedings. Three large-scale
experiments in card-guessing go to make up the total, consisting of
the following groups }
Jephson - 6000
Joint - - 9449
B.B.C. - - 38877
making a total of 54326 Card-guesses
In all these series the subject was asked to guess an unseen card,
and to write down his guess, and in this way a large collection of
recorded guesses was made. From the conditions of experiment
we can assume that in the majority of cases the subject wrote down
the card which first " came into his head."
We can also assume that the guesses were not influenced by
telepathy or clairvoyance. The results of the Jephson experiment,
which seemed to show signs of clairvoyance, were not done under
test conditions, and were not confirmed by the Joint Experiment.
No success was achieved in the B.B.C. series, and the remarkable
consistency of preference between all four suits and all three series
is such clear evidence of widespread and persistent mental habits,
that we can legitimately take the figures as representative, and use
them as our standard of comparison.
So that the reader may familiarise himself with the preferences
expressed in the recorded experiment, I print Table 11.
In almost all religions, in all mythologies, the numbers 3, 5, 7, 9
have considerable mystical or magical import. It seems inherent
in our very make-up to feel that certain numbers have importance
and meaning, and though we are quite ignorant as to the psycho-
logical roots of these preferences, it is not a very daring theory to
assume that they are probably closely linked with the very structure
of our being, and basic to human nature. In this particular series,
the preferences for 3, 5, 7, 9 compete with the usual values of the
cards from the point of view of play, so that the ten and the Court
cards receive comparatively little attention.
1 Ina Jephson, " Evidence of Clairvoyance in Card-guessing : a Report on
some recent Experiments," Proc. S.P.R. (1928), xsxviii. 223-71.
Theodore Besterman, S. G. Soal, and Ina Jephson, " Report on a Series of
Experiments in Clairvoyance conducted at a Distance under approximately
Fraud-proof Conditions," Proc. S.P.B. (1931), xxxix. 375-414.
V. J. WooUey, " The Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-Telepathy," Proc.
S.P.R. (1928), xxxviii. 1-9.
128] A Behaviourist Experiment in Clairvoyance 105
Table II
Cards said in Card-guessing Experiments.
All the Available Material.
Series taken as Standard for Card-preferences.
Ace
Ace
]
0
5
J 4656
9 4251
3 3897
K 3885
7 3424
10 3349
•)
2705
4 2199
6 2023
8 1798
54326
The suits are preferred in the following order :
Diamonds - - 15109
Hearts - - - 14102
Spades - - - 13839
Clubs - - - 11276
That is, 29,211 red cards and 25,155 black, a
^
surplus of 4096 red cards.
8
Diagram I.
Heavy line = Card preferences, Standard series. (54326)
Light line =rirst cards drawn in Accessible-cards series. (1937)
Dotted line = First cards chosen in Distance Experiment. (1496)
106 I)i,a Jephson [part
Briefly the ace is by far and away the most highly-preferred
number out of the thirteen values, and the odd numbers appear
more variable in the liking they inspire. The predominance of the ace,
therefore, and the preponderance of odd mimbers are the two charac-
teristics which we must look for amongst cards drawn as evidence
of the hypothetical faculty.
The following table shows the results of all the cards drawn in all
the games where the full pack was used.
Table III
All First Cards dra\¥n. All subsequent Cards drawn. Total.
3 - 170 1 - 1477 1 - 1636
1 - 159 K - 1465 K - 1624
K - 159 2 - 1456 2 - 1614
2 - 158 4 - 1450 3 - 1603
8 - 158 9 - 1435 4 - 1587
5 - 156 3 - 1433 8 - 1587
J - 153 Q - 1432 J - 1580
10 - 148 8 - 1429 9 - 1576
9 - 141 7 - 1427 7 - 1565
7 - 138 J - 1427 10 - 1563
4 - 137 10 - 1415 Q - 1558
6 - 134 6 - 1411 6 - 1545
Q - 126 5 - 1387 5 - 1543
1937 18644 20581
The ace, the most significant card in the standard series of
preferences, has the highest frequency amongst cards drawn. The
actual expectation of any one card in a total of 20,581 is 1583, so
there have been 53 more aces drawn than the actual expectation.
In the first cards drawn, the expectation in a total of 1937 is 149,
aces therefore exceed expectation by 10. This positive correlation
with the preferred cards in the standard series can be seen by look-
ing at Diagram I, where the light line shows the amounts drawn of
each card.
The figures are not beyond what might be expected by chance.
In both series, first cards drawn and total, there is a slight excess
of preferred cards.
TABLE IV
First Cards. Total.
Odd - 764 Odd - 7159 Odd - 7923
Even -
753 Even -
7161 Even -- 7896
Odd - 29 Even 2 Odd 27
15819
128] A Behaviourist Experiment in Clairvoyance 107
I submitted these tigures to Dr R. A. Fisher, F.R.S., whose
vakiable help liad made possible the statistical treatment of my
past experiments with cards, and asked what degree of agreement,
what correlation (if any) there was between the frequencies of cards
drawn and the preferences expressed in the standard series.
Dr Fisher replied as follows :
" I have come to the conclusion that the correlation method
makes a very artificial approach to your problem, since the 13
values in a suit cannot be really regarded as a random sample of
any objective population of possible values. It seems to me more
direct to consider whether the 13 frequencies observed differ signifi-
cantly from equality, a x' ^^^t with twelve degrees of freedom,
and if so, whether the particular component of deviation which is
proportional to the deviations of your standard preferences, is itself
significant, which reduces to a test with one degree of freedom, a
selected one out of the twelve available. For example, your series B
[Table III, first column] headed all first cards drawn scores 13-101
for the 12 degrees of freedom, the expected value being 12, and the
value observed not greater than would often occur by chance, so
that this series from 170 threes to 126 Queens is not more variable
than one would expect from 1937 cards drawn at random. This
includes all difierences in frequency, and not only those differences
which conform to the standard preferences. If we confine attention
to the one component which measures conformity with these prefer-
ences, we have a positive component contributing -6415 to the total,
the expectation being unity, the conformity is, of course, not signi-
ficant, although on the whole the preference cards have been drawn
more frequently than those not preferred.
" With respect to Table C [Table III, second column], the fre-
quencies are distinctly more equal than one ought to find in 18,644
independent drawings, for the 12 degrees of freedom is only
4-726, which is subnormal, and arises from the cards having been
drawn without replacement."
The next collection to be analysed consists of the games which
were played with the number cards alone, and a small series made
only with the court cards. I devised a simple game with the court
cards, as I thought it possible that the King might continue to be
drawn with a high frequency, and wished for further opportunity
to test this.
The results are as follows ; the odd cards are still leading. The
Ace, in the first cards drawn, keeps a perilous lead, beating an out-
sider, the 8, by only one card.
108 Ina Jephson [part
Table V
First Cards. Subsequent Cards. Total
Ace 38 3 400 8 427
8 37 8 390 3 424
2 36 9 389 9 423
5 35 6 387 5 417
9 35 7 387 7 415
7 28 10 383 Ace 413
A
o •^89
6 411
o 94 4- oo 1 2 408
6 24 Ace 375 4 407
10 21 2 372 10 404
303 3846 4149
Odds - 159 Odds - 1933 Odds -
2092
Evens -
144 Evens -
1913 Evens - OAK'?
Odds - ~I5 Odds - 20 Odds - 35
Court Cards : K - 395
Q - 386
J 382
1163
If we combine the results whicli we have just analysed with the
results of the first group of games which were played with a full
pack, we get the following groups :
Table VI
First Cards. Subsequent Cards. TotaL
Ace - 197 Ace - 1852 Ace - 2049
8 - 195 3 - 1833 3 - 2027
2 - 194 4 - 1831 2 - 2022
3 - 194 2 - 1828 8 - 2014
5 - 191 9 - 1824 9 - 1999
9 - 175 8 - 1819 4 - 1994
10 - 169 7 - 1814 7 - 1980
7 - 166 6 - 1798 10 - 1967
4 - 163 10 - 1798 5 - 1960
6 - 158 5 - 1769 6 - 1956
1802 18166 19968
Odd - 923 Odd - 9092 Odd - 10015
Even - 879 Even - 9074 Even - 9953
Odd - 44 Odd 18 Odd 62
~C;ourt Cards : King 2019
Jack 1962
Queen 1944
5925
128] A Behaviourist Experiment in Clairvoyance 109
Though all the results tended in the direction hoped for, that is,
a high frequency of aces and a majority of odd cards, none of them
are beyond chance.
The expectation for either odds or evens to be drawn in the
series of first cards is 901. The observed number is 92.3, giving a
deviation of 22. The standard deviation is 21.
The expectation in the total series for either odds or evens is
9984, the observed number is 10,015, a deviation of 31. The standard
deviation is 71.
Total, all Cards drawn in Accessible-cards Series.
2050
2000
1950
Diagram II.
25893 cards drawn.
If the results are examined to discover whether there is any
evidence for colour preference, that is, for red cards to have been
drawn more often than black, only 11,632 cards were recorded
which are analysable from this point of view, and we get a purely
chance result of a majority of 15 red cards drawn.
Distance Experiments.
These distance games were played at the end of the evening when
other games were finished ; the collection is not so large as I should
like, but the game was a dull one for the players, as it was seldom
possible to let the players know what success they had had in the
" given " aim. However, 8102 cards were drawn in this way, with
results which I shall describe.
In all these games the cards were out of sight of the players, and
110 Ina Jephson [part
chosen by tliem by position on a given plan. A " dealer " was ap-
pointed, who dealt out the cards face downwards on a similar plan.
The first of these games to be tried was the " clock " experiment,
twelve cards being laid out in the positions of hours on a clock.
Each player was given a score-sheet on which was printed a
series of spaces in the positions of the hours on a clock-face.
Before the experiment began it was explained that, out of sight,
the cards (six red cards and six black) would be shuffled and dealt
out at random on the plan shown in the score-sheet, no one knowing
in which positions any of the cards lay. The cards were the 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6 of diamonds and spades.
The players were asked to imagine that they could " clair-
voyantly " know how the cards lay, and to try and find pairs of a
similar colour. Each player was allowed to try for five couples.
He marked his first pair chosen " A " on the plan given to him,
and his second choice " B " " B," and so on.
As soon as the players have made their selections, the dealer
turns up the cards in their places, and marks them on his score-
sheet plan. Later, by using this key-plan, it is easy to discover from
the players' records, which cards were chosen by the players.
Thirty-three people took part in this clock experiment, and if we
analyse the first or " A " cards we get the following result
:
Ace - - 18
2 - - 14
3 - - 11
4 - - 8
5 - - 8
6 - -
_7
66
that is, 37 odd numbers and 29 even. Of these, 42 were red cards
and 24 black. In the total results, odds and evens were chosen
with equal frequency, and two more black cards drawn than red.
This result for the first cards drawn, showing all the tendencies
for which I hope, a high frequency for ace, odd numbers and red
cards, may seem hopeful, but unfortunately there may be a per-
fectly normal reason for the success, which is this. When a choice
is made from a series of positions on a given plan, we discover at
once that there is a defijiite tendency to prefer some positions to
others, and that this tendency is very general, and definite enough
to be observable even in a small number of choices. Their presence
will cause no surprise, and reasons for them can in many cases be
easily surmised. The reading habit with these subjects, for instance,
may determine that the first choice in a linear series be the first
position on the left-hand top corner, and so on.
128] A Behaviourist Experiment in Clairvoyance 111
It follows, therefore, that if chance has placed a preferred card
in a preferred position in a plan, that it will be more often chosen
than it would be by pure chance. To take a concrete instance, if
an ace happens to be dealt in the top left-hand position (the favoured
position in a plan), the choice of that position will automatically
ensure the choice of an ace, and numerous choices of that position
will ensure the choice of numerous aces. We can, of course, dodge
the difficulty by providing the players with enough deals to ensure
that chance gives a different card by turn in the various positions.
Unfortunately, it was never possible at the parties where the games
were played, to arrange that each player had a different deal from
which to choose, so in the bulk of the experiments, choices were made
on one deal, by groups of people numbering from 30 to 70 players.
In the clock experiment which has been described, we find on
examining the lay-out of the cards that Dr WooUey, who was dealer
on this occasion, though he shuffled the cards and dealt them out
at random (face downwards), began with an ace on the 12 o'clock
position, and dealt the red cards on the upper part of the plan. As
the natural instinct on choosing positions from a circular plan is to
start with the positions in the upper part of it, the frequency of
ace and red cards in the results can be easily explained.
The next experiment was made as follows, and was a slight im-
provement on the clock experiment, as there were a larger number
of deals from which choice was made.
It was called the " Distance Card-pairing Experiment," and was
closely similar to the card-pairing game which has already been
described in the section on accessible cards.
For this game first the two red suits and then the two black ones
were set out in four rows, three of three cards and one of four.
Again no one knew in which positions any of the cards lay.
The players were told that the cards had been dealt out, and were
asked to imagine that they could, after choosing at random a card
from the heart group, intuitively discover the pair to it in the
diamond group. They marked their first choice A in the diamond
group, and their second choice A in the heart group. Five diamonds
and five hearts were chosen in this way, and marked respectively
A A, B B, etc.
The players having recorded their choice, the dealer turned up
the cards in their places and recorded them on his score-sheet.
In this experiment 7398 cards were chosen, and chance favoured
the results in a remarkable way. We can count as valid for data
all the first cards which were drawn in each suit. In the card-
pairing experiment, where the cards were accessible, we could only
coimt the very first card which was taken in each^ pairing effort,
that is, the diamonds in the red suits, and the spades in the black,
112 Ina Je-phson [part
for in that game the players looked at the first card they picked up,
and then tried to find its pair, so normal knowledge might con-
tribute to the finding of the second pair. In the distance series the
problem is to find " likeness " amongst cards none of which are seen,
so neither fraud nor an accidental sight of the cards was possible.
Naturally the first card picked in each suit offers the most satis-
factory material from the mathematical point of view ; as the odds
are changed when cards are chosen without replacement.
The following tables give the information as to cards drawn in
this Distance series.
Table VII
A. First cards chosen B. First cards chosen
C. First cards.
All suits.
from diamonds and
spades.
from hearts and
clubs.
Ace 87 7 76 Ace 155
Q - 72 Ace 68 3 -
133
10 -
70 3 - 68 Q - 132
3 -
65 2 -
66 10 -
125
8 -
65 6 62 7 - 121
5 - 63 Q -
60 8 - 117
9 - 58 K - 56 9 - 112
J - 58 10 -
55 K -
108
K - 52 9 -
54 5 -
106
4 -
48 8 - 52 J -
100
7 - 45 4 -
46 2 99
2 -
33 5 - 43 4 - 94
6 -
32
748
J - 42
748
6 -
94
1496
D. All cards E. Total, all four suits.
subsequent first and subsequent
to first. cards1 combined.
7 - 569 7 - 614
K - 535 Ace - 608
10 - 524 10 - 594
Ace - 521 K - 587
9 - 518 8 - 578
J - 515 9 - 576
6 - 514 J - 573
8 - 513 3 - 568
3 - 503 Q - 566
Q - 494 5 - 551
5 - 488 6 - 546
2 - 485 4 - 519
4 - 471 2 - 518
6650 7398
128] A Behaviourist Experiment in Clairvoyance 113
These results are remarkable. The very close correlation between
the cards chosen and the Standard Preference Series is easily seen
by Diagram I, where the dotted line gives the cards chosen.
Dr Fisher reports on the results as follows : "In Table A 3 [Table
VII C] the frequencies difier much more than they would in 748
cards drawn independently ^ and at random. The twelve degrees of
freedom score 50-5267, and of this the preference component con-
tributes 24-1360, a very marked preference, nearly five times its
standard error, and quite clearly significant. Series A 1 and A 2
[Table VII A and B] are not positively correlated.
The cards subsequently chosen in Table A 4 [Table VII D] do
not diiler from random expectation. Their twelve degrees score
14-5468 and the preference component contributes 0-2594, a positive
preference of about half its standard error, though judging from
the' table for subsequent cards drawn in the Accessible Series I have
over-estimated the Standard Error owing to non-replacement of
the cards. However, the fact that the preference component con-
tributes less than a twelfth of the total shows that there is nothing
in it, apart from the fact that it is positive."
The significant figures achieved by the first cards drawn made it
necessary to analyse the conditions of experiment to discover
whether again the preferred cards by chance had occupied the pre-
ferred positions. It was unfortunately not possible to get informa-
tion as to all the deals involved in this group, as in some cases,
before the importance of the point had been realised, only those
cards which lay in positions which had been chosen were recorded,
and not (as should have been done) all the cards in all the positions.
However, the number of deals recorded, and the number of choices
made on them is enough to give sufficient data to illustrate how
chance could influence the results. Of the Table VII C, giving 1496
cards, 1352 had been made on the deals which I give the details.
(The 144 cards which make up the balance were chosen in experi-
ments where the deals were not always fully recorded.)
When the plans were examined it was found that the choice had
fallen very heavily on certain positions. On the top left-hand
position, for instance, ninety-two choices were made, as against only
five for the lowest right-hand position in the same little group.
Now, by chance, in the twenty-four deals made the ace was five
times put in the preferred position by five different dealers. The
seven was laid in the fifth position (another popular place) on five
different occasions. This purely chance arrangement led naturally
to a high frequency for ace and seven amongst the cards chosen,
and can account for the significant correlation with the Standard
Preference series which was achieved in this experiment.
1 As to independence, however, see below.
114 Ina JepJisov [part 128
The experiment, therefore, can only serve as a guide to designing
future experiments, and the method can be made satisfactory and
free from the drawbacks introduced by position habits if we arrange
that each player has a different deal laid out on the plan, from
which to make his choice. For in the long run, though position
habits would persist, chance must eventually place different cards
in the different positions, so that if the players continued to draw
preferred cards with a high frequency, it would be valid evidence
that Intuitive Perception was at work.
In conclusion, it is clear that statistically these experiments
provide no support for my theory, except where there were acci-
dental flaws in the procedure. From this conclusion there is no
escape. At the same time I still think that there is a prima facie
psychological case for the supposition that clairvoyance is to some
extent influenced by more or less subconscious preferences, and that
there is a case for further investigation.
Before I end I woidd like to make one point clear, and that is
that, though the research was made in cards, they were chosen
simply as a handy and statistical material on which to try the
hypothetical faculty. If the faculty is a reality it must certainly
be exercised in less trivial directions. If and when it is so exercised
it is logical to presume that preference again will determine the
facts perceived. The phenomena of mediumistic activity which
possibly most nearly resembles these experiments are " booktests."
Here relevance and significance either for the sitter or for the
supposed communicator are of the very essence of the event. If
we examine the recorded cases of spontaneous intuitive perception
(either clairvoyance or telepathy), the effective range of the faculty
seems again to be fairly narrowly determined by significance or
preference. In the majority of recorded cases the " seer " becomes
aware of some danger or difiiculty to someone with whom he has
strong ties of affection. A large assembly can be made of the intui-
tive discovery of lost valuables. Lost wills are found which in
every case, I think, benefit the seer.
I would again like to thank the many people whose co-operation
made this research possible, particularly Miss Newton and Mr
Besterman, who helped on many occasions in many capacities ;
Dr Fisher for his open-minded and patient consideration of my
rather eccentric problems, and for his statistical help ; and Mr Soal
for his help in statistical matters.
REVIEW.
The Boston Society for Psychic Research, Bulletin XVIII.
October 1932.
This Bulletin, of seventeen pages in double cohimns and iUustra-
tions, deals with finger-prints, or rather thumb-prints, obtained at
sittings with the medium known as Margery ^ on tablets of Kerr
dental wax, and claimed by Margeri/s Control " Walter " as his
own. He materialises his thumb, he says, as it was in life, and
impresses it, while the seance-room is dark, on the wax provided by
the sitters, which is softened to the necessary extent by them,
under " Walter's " direction, in hot water. " Walter " is alleged
to be Margery s brother who died in 1911 by an accident, and the
wax finger-prints, said to be recognised as his, are recognised by
comparing them with faint finger-prints on a razor handle belong-
ing to him, and put away by his mother among other small posses-
sions after his death. Some of those who have examined this two-
dimensional print on the razor handle, while accepting that it was
really made unintentionally by " Walter " when alive, consider it,
I understand, to be too faint and incomplete to serve efficiently as
a mark of identity of pattern with the wax " Walter " prints pro-
duced at sittings.^
The Bulletin under review contains three articles, all bearing on
the subject of " Walter's " thumb-prints, these thumb-prints hav-
ing excited considerable interest in the world of psychical research
ever since the experiments in their production began in 1927. The
first and longest of the three articles is by Mr E. E. Dudley, a
member of the American Society (A.S.P.R.), who had also for
several years been an active member of their research committee ;
he had published voluminously on the subject of the " Walter
"
1 Margery's (Mrs Crandon's) mediumship is doubtless well known by
reputation to most of our readers, and they will recall Mr Dingwall's investiga-
tion of it on behalf of our Society in the early part of 1926, of which a Report
was published in vol. xxxvi of our Proceedings. That was before the develop-
ment of wax impressions of " Walter's " thumbs.
2 I need hardly remind the reader that the skin patterns on our fingers and
thumbs are individual and identifiable for each of us. For no two persons
are they exactly alike, so that if two impressions of a finger or thumb corres-
pond exactly in details it must be assumed that they are both impressions of
the same digit. And so certain is this that the fact can be made use of in
criminal investigations.
115
116 Review [part
thumb-prints, and had assumed their genuineness. There were
long papers by him, alone or in conjunction with Mr Bird, then the
Research Officer of the A.S.P.R., in the journal of that society
during 1928 and 1929. It struck Mr Dudley that there ought to be
a record at the A.S.P.R.'s office of the finger-prints of sitters—at
any rate of frequent sitters at Margeri/s sittings—and he set himself
to collect them. Among finger-prints of recent sitters none resembl-
ing " Walter's " was found. But carrying the investigation further
back, Mr Dudley got into touch with a Mr Kerivin (pseudonym),
who has been present at a number of sittings prior to 1925, though
not recently, and who, when informed of the nature of the inquiry,
willingly pressed his fingers and thumbs on the back of a sheet of
his notepaper (p. 1). Mr Dudley had these prints developed and
fixed by an expert less than two hours after they were made. A
complete set of ink prints were made two days later, on March 9,
1932, and enlarged photographs of them compared with enlarge-
ments of wax prints of the right and left thumbs, respectively,
claimed as " Walters." These enlarged prints were immediately
(March 14) submitted to two experienced finger-print experts, who
promptly agreed that the identification had been established.^
A brief statement of the facts of this identification was submitted
to the A.S.P.R for publication by Mr Dudley on June 13, 1932
(p. 3). The A.S.P.R. did not publish this statement, but Mr Dudley
was informed that " the identification was being discussed . . .
;
that there were implications that the evidence was not authentic,
and that the writer [Mr Dudley] had an ulterior motive in presenting
the facts at all "
(pp. 3-4). Mr Dudley naturally felt that he must
defend himself against such charges, and most of the remaining
part of his article in the Boston Bulletin is devoted (pp. 4-9) to
evidence of the facts of the identification and authenticity of the
wax imprints said to be of " Walter's " thumbs, used by him (Mr
Dudley) in his statement.
Mr Dudley also referred his case to two members of the publication
committee of the American Society, who after investigation " soon
were forced to admit the truth of Mr Dudley's unhappy discovery
"
(p. 10), and one of them, Mr Arthur Goadby, a trustee of the A.S.P.R.
and also previously a believer in the genuineness of the " Walter
"
finger-prints, is the author of the second article in the Bulletin we
are reviewing, which gives a short but very clear account of the
matter under discussion (pp. 10-13).
1 This gentleman preferred that his true name should not appear in Mr
Dudley's statement for publication, but (see p. 2 of the Bulletin) made no
objection to its being filed with the trustees of the A.S.P.R.
^ I omit the tedious but important points in the examination and com-
parison of finger-prints.
128] Review 117
In the meanwhile the American Society's research committee had
received what Mr Goadby calls Mr Dudley's " certified and well-
documented report" for publication in their Journal. They did
not publish it, but in the number for July 1932 published " a
Statement on behalf of the Kesearch Committee." This statement,
intended by the Committee as a reply to a document which they do
not print, is regrettably vague and obscure, but the position seems
to be as follows :
1. It is no longer suggested that the prints submitted by Mr
Dudley as Mr Kerwin's were not in fact such.
2. It is contended that the " Walter " right thumb impression
with which Mr Dudley compares a Kerwin right thumbprint, is a
positive, the Kerwin print being, of course, a negative, and that
therefore the supposed identity fails. The Research Committee,
however, of the American Society, had hitherto classified this im-
pression as a negative.
3. It is contended that the " Walter " left thumb impression put
in evidence by Mr Dudley was " unique," other impressions of
" Walter's " left thumb not showing any resemblance to the Kerwin
left thumb-print. " Walter " has in fact only claimed to have made
four impressions of his left thumb (impressions of his right being
much more numerous). Three of these were made at one sitting,
on August 23, 1927. Of these Mr Dudley put in evidence one which
had long been accepted as authentic by the American Society's
officials. Now, however, that its authenticity was disputed it was
obviously important to compare it with one of the other two impres-
sions made at that sitting and afterwards given to sitters. It is
with this point that Mr Carrington deals in the third paper included
in the Bulletin. Mr Carrington, our readers may be reminded, was
the member of the Scientific American Committee who to a certain
degree dissented from the unfavourable verdict of his colleagues
concerning Margery's phenomena.
One of the sitters who had received a wax impression on August 23,
1927, was a Mr Hutchinson of Cincinnati, who was supposed since
to have died. Fortunately Mr Carrington found that he was not
only alive, but had carefully preserved the wax impression, and this
he forwarded to Mr Carrington. When examined it was found to
agree exactly with the impression put in evidence by Mr Dudley,
so that the suggestion put forward by the Research Committee that
the latter was unique or unauthentic appears groundless.
The Committee conclude their statement by saying that " despite
any discussion that may be indulged in by others in the meantime
they will make no further statement in regard thereto until the
investigation [which they are making] is completed and all the facts
covered in an adequate scientific report." So we need not expect
118 Review [part
an answer till some moment wlien it seems to them convenient to
send it.
Mr Carrington ends his article with the sentence (p. 17), "... for
six years, '
Walter '
has persistently claimed these as Ms own thumb
prints, whereas painstaking investigation has shown them to belong
to a living man—and the very man who supplied Margery with the
original Kerr, showed her how to make thumb prints in it, and gave
her three-dimensional prints of his own thumbs." I do not know
what Mr Carrington' s authority for the whole of this sentence is,
but it agrees well with the following in Mr Dudley's article (p. 2) :
" On March 14th the enlarged photographs were also shown to the
man whose ridge patterns had been duplicated in wax. It is doubt-
ful if anyone could have been more surprised. Quite naturally, he
was somewhat perturbed on learning that approximate replicas of
his right thumb print had been well-distributed over the world as
the prints of a ghost's thumb. ... In response to a question, he
stated that he had made his prints in wax (presumably of his thumbs)
for Margery, and in reply to a further question as to what had been
done with them, suggested :
'
You had better ask Margery what she
did with them.' Margery, while admitting that such prints had
been made, asserted that she had never had them."
It is obvious that if Margery ever had uncontrolled possession for
a short time of these prints she might have made from them casts
of plaster or other suitable material which would serve as " Walter's
"
thumbs, from which again wax models might be made ad infinitum.
It will be said here perhaps that adequate measures are always
taken at the sittings to prevent Margery having the free use of her
hands, and that without this no manipulation of the wax could be
done by her. This may be so at some times and not at others, or it
may never be so. An observation made by Dr Woolley and Mrs
Brackenbury in our own S.P.R. seance-room {Proceedings, xxxix
358) is of importance here. In December 1929 Dr and Mrs Crandon
(Margery) visited England and borrowed our seance-room for
demonstration experiments in the Ma.rgery mediixmship. Dr
Woolley and Mrs Brackenbury were invited to attend as observers.
The procedure in connection with the inquiry, arranged of course
by Dr Crandon, was understood to be the same as that employed
in the sittings which usually take place at Boston. It consists in
the main in the attachment of the wrists and ankles of the medium
to the arms and legs of the chair in which she sits by a number of
turns of adhesive tape. I need not here go into the further details
given in the article in our Proceedings, as the writers of it agree with
Dr Crandon " that his method does secure the wrists and ankles
firmly to the chair so that no movement is allowed to the lower
ends of the forearms beyond what is allowed through the skin
REPORT OF AN INVESTIGATION INTO SPIRIT-
PHOTOGRAPHY.i
By Fred Barlow and Major W. Rampling-Rose.
I. By Fred Barlow.
To the investigator spirit-photography offers certain advantages
over most types of psychic phenomena in that one can rule out
telepathic and subconscious theories and get to grips right away
with the question as to whether these photographic effects are
genuine or whether they are fraudulently produced. On the other
hand, there is at least one very distinct disadvantage in that for an
essential part of the experiment a dark room is necessary, so that if
one is up against deception it is more difficult to detect. An
additional disadvantage is that before arriving at the final results,
the photographic plates registering those results have to go through
so man}" different processes—in and out of boxes, in and out of dark
slides, in and out of the camera, in and out of solutions and so on,
and at every single step there is a loophole for fraud. Such being
the case, even an experienced photographer may be easily deceived,
and the majority of sitters are at the mercy of an unscrupulous
medium, although they may consider they are sitting under test
conditions.
I find myself in a somewhat unenviable position. As many
readers of this paper will know, I was at one time a very strenuous
advocate for what I thought was the reality and genuineness of
supernormal photography. After taking part in scores of experi-
ments and after the expenditure of a great deal of time and thought
I had reached the conclusion that there were such things as genuine
psychic photographs, and I felt it my duty to defend supernormal
photography and the mediums on every possible occasion.
To-day the position is altered. Instead of defending spirit-
photography I have cause to criticise it very adversely, and this, I
much regret to say, will bring me into conflict with many good friends
of the past. I cannot be accused of lack of experience or of having
reached a hasty conclusion, and I want to mention very briefly the
causes that have led to this change in my views.
About nine years ago a new spirit-photographer came into being.
His name was George Moss. After securing some remarkable
1 Read at a Private Meeting of the Society, 30 November 1932.
G 121
122 Fred Barlow [part
results at Manchester, his reputation became such that the British
College of Psychic Science felt justified in providing him with
permanent accommodation on their premises. Everything went
along very well ; no suspicions were aroused, and it was claimed
that the best evidence of his genuineness was that afforded by the
very large number of recognised extraneous likenesses that appeared
on his photographic plates. I wish to emphasise this point. You
will find many cases detailed in the College journal Psychic Science
in 1925, and it was contended that the percentage of recognised
likenesses obtained by Moss was higher than that obtained at Crewe
or through the mediumship of Mrs Deane. I had a sitting at the
College with Moss and secured what was apparently a supernormal
result. Everything appeared to be all right. The only snag was
that Moss claimed that it was necessary for him to have the sensitive
plates beforehand for " magnetisation ". So far as one could tell
at the time we came to use the plates, the packets had not been
interfered with.
Some photographic mediums claim that it is necessary for them
to have the photographic plates in their possession some days before
using them, in order that they may become impregnated with their
aura or magnetism—hence the expression
'
' magnetisation " . It will
be seen that this practice lends itself to trickery on the part of a
fraudulent medium.
Through the courtesy of Mr Hewat Mackenzie I was able eventu-
ally to arrange for Moss to pay a visit to Birmingham for experi-
mental purposes. Again everything seemed to go along all right
Moss was of a friendly disposition and appeared open and anxious
to co-operate in the investigation of these phenomena.
We tried numerous experiments with ordinary cameras and with
a cinema camera, but in no instance were we successful unless we
were using plates previously " magnetised " by Moss. Immediately
upon his return to London I began very carefully to examine his
results. The outer coverings of the boxes of plates we had used
had been kept on one side. In opening the packets I had cut them
down the centre so that I could examine them carefully at my
leisure. A careful examination of the plate-wrappings showed
that these had been very skilfully opened and re-sealed. All those
negatives on which extraneous faces appeared had the edge of the
plate abraded. On those plates that showed no results there was
no rough edge. I examined at the Psychic College a large number
of negatives produced by Moss, with the same result. The object
of the roughened edge of the plate will be obvious. It served as a
guide in inserting the plate in the shde the right way up, so that the
" spirit " should not appear on the photograph upside down.
Moss was taxed with fraud, and after attempting to bluff it out
129] Report of an Investigation into Spirit-Photography 123
he fuUv confessed." That was the end of his career as a medium.
He made one mistake in roughing the edges of his plates. If he
had not done this in every case, he might probably have got away
with it and have had a successful career as a photographic sensitive.
It was about this time (June 1925) that certain information was
divulged to me in regard to Hope, which, coming immediately after
the Moss episode, caused me very considerably to modify my views
on the genuineness of psychic photography. I do not feel I ought
at this juncture to publish any detailed statement, as the friend who
gave me this information is now dead. I can only say that my
informant, who was a professing spiritualist with considerable
experience in all aspects of psychic phenomena, observed certain
very suspicious circumstances at some sittings with Hope conducted
by my friend on his own premises. I have given to the officials of
the S.P.R. a full statement of what I learnt, together with a letter
from my friend's wife, confirming the fact of his discoveries.
You will readily understand that this information caused me some
concern, but I decided to continue my investigations quietly with
the Crewe circle in the hope of being able to obtain further definite
personal proof one way or the other.
Through the S.P.R. I was very fortunate in having as a colleague,
in some later experiments. Major Rampling-Rose, whom I already
knew as an expert in photographic matters. So as not to prejudice
Major Rose in any way I told him nothing of the suspicions aroused
in my mind by my friend's revelations. Major Rose will explain
our reasons for concluding that we have not obtained a single genuine
result during our joint experiments at Crewe. On the contrary, the
evidence suggests that all the results we have obtained are of a
fraudulent nature, and the views of Major Rose and myself on this
matter are in absolute agreement.
Our paper will deal principally with the Crewe circle because
they are by far the most noted mediums for these phenomena and
they have been practising for more than 25 years. I do not
know why it should be called the Crewe circle, for it simply boils
down to one individual—Mr WilUam Hope. Billy Hope, as he is
called, is an impulsive little man of about 70. I had always been
on very friendly terms with him up to the time of telling him
quite candidly our conclusions and offering him an opportunity
of proving that he could produce a genuine result. Needless to
say, he did not take this opportunity. Hope appears to be that
psychological curiosity—a man with a dual personality. On
the one side of his character there is the alert and witty north-
country man of genial disposition—a simple Salvationist who
would be considered the last person in the world to deceive. On
2 Cp. Journ. S.P.R. (1926), xxiii. 71-3.
o 2
124 Fred Barlow [part
the other side appears the bogus medium who uses his prayers and
psalm-singing as a cloak to cover his guilty operations.
There is a Mrs Buxton associated with Hope in this work. Usually
the sittings at Crewe take place in her home, as Hope has no con-
venience for this at his house. My personal view is that Mrs
Buxton firmly believes that Hope is genuine, and that nothing will
shake that belief.
It is imnecessary in this paper to give an historical survey of the
early days of spirit photography. This has already been done in a
very efficient manner by Mrs Henry Sidgwick in her paper published
in vol. vii of Proceedings (1891). Speaking generally, there have
been many accusations of fraud—some of which have been admitted
by the mediums, who, however, have still carried on their work after
the confession.
I am going to refer to the supposed supernormal results as
" extras "
—this is a non-committal word which I do not like, but
it is the name invariably applied by Mr Hope. Curiously enough,
it is of American origin, and is applied to fake faces superimposed
on a photograph or film.
There is no doubt that the whole fabric of the evidence for the
reality of psychic photography is based on the claim that on many
occasions sitters who were quite unknown to the mediums have
obtained " extras " of dead friends or relatives which could not
possibly have been prepared in advance. This claim I myself once
made, and if it could be substantiated the supporters of the reaUty
of psychic photography would be in an impregnable position.
Recognised likenesses have been produced, but in every single
case I have investigated, where there is no doubt as to the likeness,
the " extra " has been an exact copy of some existing photograph
or painting. The proportion of cases in which the identification of
the '
' extra
'
' is certain is very small—perhaps one in a thousand—but
even such a small percentage, or even one in ten thousand, if obtained
under conditions precluding fraud, would be sufficient to establish the
genuineness of psychic photography. In no instance that I have
investigated, where such definitely recognised " extras " have been
obtained, have I been able completely to satisfy myself that the
medium did not have an opportunity of faking the picture before-
hand.
Take my own case—the number of times I have been photo-
graphed by mediums for spirit photography and have secured
" extras "'
runs well into four figures. On two occasions only have I
obtained a result which I considered I could recognise. Of these
two occasions the first was when I thought I was fortunate enough
to secure through Mrs Deane a likeness of my father. This " extra
"
I still consider bears a remarkable likeness to my father, but I must
PLATE I
Fig. 1.
—
Thv vriled ti^^ure photoorapli taken at Crewe by W. Hope as
described in text. This was a previously prejiared plate, and tlie evidence
is to be found in the rt bate of the lightly printetl photograph which plainly
shows the double exposin'e.
PLATE II
Fici. 2. —The lower picture is tin' CrawiDril pliotograpli olitaiued liy
^^everal sitters from Belfast during a visit to the Crewe circle. There is no
tl<.)ubt that the handwriting is that of the late Dr C'rawford, but it will be
seen that the result has every appearance of having been produced by
cutting out letters and forming them up to make sense. The top result
ilhistrates this by means of a result in the handwj'iting of the late Major
R. E. E. iSpencer which Mr Barlow faked for him some time before his death
from some of his letters to show how simply this could be done.
129] Report of an Investigation into Spirit-Photography 125
frankly admit now that it is an equally good likeness of other
gentlemen I have known who closely resembled him. Moreover,
the same " extra ", identical in every detail has been obtained by
other sitters with Mrs Deane, such sitters being absolute strangers
to myself or family and, for all I know, they may think it a likeness
of a relative or friend of theirs.
The " extra " of my father which I obtained at Crewe is easily
explained. When I got the result from Mrs Deane I was so pleased
that I mounted the normal photograph alongside the supposed
psychic likeness and scattered these broadcast. I am pretty
confident that one of these went to Crewe, and in any case the
photograph was pubhshed in Light on 20 August 1921. It was
after that (on 7 October 1922) that I got the likeness of my father
at Crewe.
Some sitters, of course, get recognised " extras " every time.
The result satisfies them, but it would not satisfy an unprejudiced
critic. The likeness is probably a Httle indistinct, as most " extras
"
are, and bears a resemblance to someone they may have known at
some time or other. Into this vague resemblance they weave
the equally vague likeness that exists in their memory, and in a very
little while they do honestly consider the " extra " to be a perfect
likeness. I think you will find that your memories of dead_ friends
do not consist so much in remembering all their facial details as in
a 'general recollection of their individual personalities. My ex-
perience with Moss and other fraudulent mediums has satisfied
me that no scientific value can be placed on the vast majority of
these claims for recognised " extras." Experimental fake extras
of imknown people have been readily recognised as friend or relative
of people to whom I have shown them.
Now we come to the question of the conditions under which these
results have been obtained. As many readers know, I have been
much favoured by the mediums and have been granted tests and
experiments such as do not fall to the lot of the ordinary investi-
gator. A careful reconsideration of all such tests, in view of what
I know now, has satisfied me that I have never had one so-called test
sitting where there was not some loop-hole for fraud.
I will mention a personal example by way of illustrating how easy
it is to overlook some apparently minor but very vital point in these
photographic experiments. On numerous occasions in the past
I have referred to what I thought at the time was a perfect test.
The Society for the Study of Supernormal Pictures, of which I was
the Hon. Secretary, presented Hope with a new camera. Accom-
panied by two other members of the Society I took this camera
to Crewe.
Hope allowed me to load the shdes with my own plates and
126 Fred Barlow [part
to develop them afterwards. He was not in the dark room either for
loading or developing, and certainly did not interfere with the camera
in any way. On one out of four plates used " extras " appeared
(see pages 48-9 and 83-4 of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's The Case for
Spirit Photography). There appeared to be no opportunity for
trickery here, but after my experience with Moss, and the informa-
tion that had been given to me in regard to Hope, I went through
my various reports on sittings and in my account of this particular
sitting, signed by myself and the two who accompanied me, I found
that after I had loaded the slide, and taken it with me out of the
dark room, Hope went into an alleged trance during which he was
supposed to be controlled by his guide " Massa." " Massa " gave
instructions that the medium should be given one of the loaded
slides to keep in his left trouser pocket. It was the last slide used
and one which contained the plate with the "extras."
It is perfectly clear to me now that Hope printed the images on the
plate whilst the slide was in his possession. What I could not under-
stand was how I could possibly have overlooked such opportunity
for trickery. I certainly did not intentionally suppress this impor-
tant point, and can only look upon it as a subconscious suppression
caused by the " will to believe."
What happens in the ordinary way when a sitter goes to Crewe ?
He takes with him his own unopened packet of plates. After a
short service, he goes into the dark room to load the slides. In
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred Hope is in the dark room either
for loading the slides before exposure in the camera, or unloading
them before developing the plates—at some time or other he
handles the loaded slide or the plates. He once told me that he
considered this necessary as the power works " through his hands."
The dark room is a very small pantry with a high narrow shelf for
loading and developing, and the room is lit by a very feeble red
light. During some part of the proceedings Hope handles the
loaded slide and has ample opportunity to print an " extra " on
the plate without being detected. Major Rose will describe some
of these trick methods later. I incline to the view that most of
Hope's " extras " are printed by him on the plate immediately
after loading the shdes. Invariably, during this period, he is in an
excited and talkative condition.
At one time most of Hope's results appear to have been produced
on plates prepared beforehand, and the deed was apparently done
by substituting the plate or the loaded slide. After the sitting
with Mr Price, 1 who used X-ray marked plates without Hope's
knowledge, there was a marked change in the nature of the " extras
''
obtained at Crewe. Prior to that experiment the " extra " consisted
1 Cp. Journ. S.P.R. (1922), xx. 271 ff.
129] Report of an Investigation into Spirit-Photography 127
of a veiled face often occupying the greater portion of the plate.
Since Mr Price's exposure of Hope, substitution seems to have
become too risky, and most of the results now show a small face
identical in kind with what can be produced by flash-light apparatus.
Such flash-light apparatus can easily be palmed and used in the
dark-room or pocket without fear of detection. The apparatus
may vary in size from \" to 2" in diameter and from about ^" in
thickness. It consists of a small electric bulb with wires w-hich are
connected to a battery hidden about the person. In front of this
electric bulb is placed a small positive face and it is only necessary
to switch on the bulb for a second or so to print the positive on to
the sensitive plate where, of course, it will develop as a negative
image. One of the small types of flash lamps on the market can be
used for this purpose, but a fraudulent medium could equip himself
with something even smaller and so more easily concealed.
During the joint experiments of Major Rose and myself with
Hope, on the only occasion when we gave him the opportunity of
substituting the plate, we got one of these veiled faces (see Fig. 1),
but on every other occasion when we got a result this was such as
could be produced by a " switch," as the flashlight apparatus is called.
Where trickery was rendered absolutely impossible we got no result.
Now let us turn our attention to psychographs. Psychograph is
the name applied to a written message on the photographic plate,
possibly in the hand-writing of the deceased person from whom it
is supposed to come. What better proof of survival could we have
than this, if only we could be absolutely sure about it ? Curiously
enough I have never obtained a psychograph, although I have made
many attempts to get one. It may be that Hope thought it too
risky to attempt this with an experienced sitter. At the same
time, some sitters have secured messages on the plate in the hand-
writing of Archdeacon CoUey, Mr William Walker, Miss Scatcherd,
Dr Crawford, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, etc.
I know of no occasion where Hope has produced a message in
facsimile hand-writing from any persons with whom he had not
had correspondence during their life time. For instance, Hope had
many letters from J\Iiss Scatcherd. It is a simple matter to select
passages from such letters, cut them out, join them up and photo-
graph them. Supposing one did do this, what would happen ?
Unless it had been done with very great care we should see the
scissor markings. It would be necessary to cover each section
carefully with cotton wool or similar material and, where he was
stuck for a word or a few words to make sense, such a fraudulent
medimn would have to fill it in, in as close an imitation as he could
make of the hand-writing he was trying to copy. This seems to
be exactly the case with Hope's psychographs (see Fig. 2).
128 Fred Barlow [part
These psychographs are of somewhat rare occurrence and apart
from the actual hand-writing there is little enough in them of
evidential value. A psychograph once prepared, the next step is
to photograph it and then substitute the plate. Actually the result
can be obtained without substituting the plate. It is possible
by the use of the previously prepared transparency to get a psycho-
graph on a plate specially marked in advance, but it is simpler to do
the substitution trick.
In all good faith, we are told time and time again that " Hope
never touched the plates," but where an " extra " is obtained
there is always some short period of control by the medium, which
is often entirely unnoticed, but is quite sufficient to allow of the
trick being done. I have already indicated how easily one may
overlook some apparently minor but essential part of the experiment.
If the thing is genuine, it should be possible to get that perfect
test which would definitely settle the matter, but there are always
some "conditions," and it is these "conditions" that render the
test of no value. For example, on a number of occasions Hope
has been asked to submit himself for examination after an " extra
"
has been obtained, but I have never known him to agree to this on
the spot. On one occasion he did pretend to agree ; it was during
an experiment with a journalist named Moseley. After securing
an " extra " Moseley, who noticed a suspicious bulge in Hope's
pocket, asked Hope to let him search him. Miss Stead supported
this very reasonable request, but Hope very indignantly refused
and cleared out of the room. In a short time he returned and said,
in effect, to Moseley, " You can search me now." ^
I have had many letters from Hope, and there is scarcely a letter
in which he does not say, " I cannot give you any tests." The
following, for example, is from a letter received in July 1931 :
" If there is a man in the world I would do anything for it is Mr
Barlow but I have finished test work for all so whenever you do
come don't bring plates and tell these good people the same for I find
them and do the work myself. Please take me at my word for
I mean it."
If Hope is genuine, why should he write in that strain to one who
was his active supporter ? Of course, I did not take his remarks
too seriously. I tried to get a test at every sitting, but Hope
always appeared to take very good care to make some stipulation
which would render fraud possible. These conditions seemed so
harmless at the time that I considered them of no importance, but
eventually it was brought home to me that they were apparently
essential to the success of the experiment by providing the necessary
opportunity for trickery.
1 See John Bull, 18 April 1931
.
PLATE ITT
"Pio,. 3. —Xn. the experiment with Mrs Deane indicated by these illustra-
tions, a small stereoscopic camera was used simultaneously with an. ordi-
nary camera. An extra appeared on only one of the plates used, thus
showing that such " extras "'
are not objective as it is often alleged that
they are.
PLATE IV
129] Report of an Investigation into Spirit-Photography 129
To get back to tlie study of psychographs. Although autographed
messages all show " scissors and paste " effects, those psychographs
in copper-plate writing show no such effects. I have very carefully
examined most of the results in copper-plate script obtained by
I
Hope and in every case they bear a marked resemblance to Hope's
ordinary handwriting—far more carefully done, and, of course,
disguised, but I do not hesitate to assert that the two writings are
identical.
Apart from any other evidence, these psychographs in themselves
provide internal evidence which would be sufficient to obtain a
verdict against him in a court of law. The language is Hope's and
they contain mistakes in spelling and grammar such as he is in the
habit of making.
For example, I have a psychograph in which the word " present
"
is spelt " presant." Both before and after the production of this
psychograph I have letters from Hope in which the word " present
"
is mis-spelt in the same manner. In another of Hope's psycho-
graphs the word " beginning " is spelt with two g's and the prefix
" physio " is wrongly used instead of the prefix " psycho." I have
several letters of Hope's in which " psychograph " is spelt " physio-
graph." His photographic messages and his ordinary letters
contain the same type of spelling and grammatical errors. Another
psychograph I have commences, " We are sorry, very sorry ..."
I have also a letter from Hope in which the same phrase occurs,
" I am sorry, very sorry ..." Evidence such as this points very
strongly to the fact that these psychographs emanated from the
same person that wrote the letters.
I shall probably be asked, " What about the messages Hope gets
on the plate in foreign languages ?
" My reply to such a question
is that such messages are very few and far between and are invari-
ably in text-book phraseology such as anyone could produce.
Moreover, the same message occasionally does service for more than
one psychograph. In a very ordinary message in three languages
in one of Hope's early productions there is a sentence in French
which reads, " Je desire que vous usiez votre influence et la leur
dans cette affaire." The same sentence, word for word, forms the
substance of a psychograph obtained by Dr Haraldur Nielsson at
Crewe some years later (12 August 1921), a copy of which Dr Nielsson
sent to me.
There are so many aspects of this subject that to cover the
ground properly would take many pages, and in deciding what not
to include one is liable to become scrappy. But I propose now to
mention a number of items which are of importance, although more
or less disconnected, and to illustrate some of these items with
actual specimens.
130 Fred Barlow [part
When using two or more cameras simultaneously I have never
obtained an " extra " on more than one plate (see Fig. 3). I have
experimented with thousands of plates but have never secured an
" extra " unless the plate or the dark slide containing the plate has
been handled by a photographic medium.
Many " extras " have been taken from newspapers or magazines.
They are exact copies of printed publications and show stipple
markings and scissor cuts (see Fig. 4). The same " extra " is
occasionally used for different sitters and, what is more important
still, the drapery is at times dupUcated thread for thread with
different faces stuck in the centre.
White cotton wool and drapery effects are often described as
ectoplasm. As there is no question of an objective materialisation
I do not see why in any circumstances this should be ectoplasm.
It appears obvious that the cotton wool and drapery effects are
simply used to disguise the cut-out edges of the " extra." In fact,
a draped or cotton wool " extra " is to me an indication of trickery.
Many spirit photographs show background markings. For
example, the " extra " is set up and photographed separately so
that when the same plate is used with a sitter, backgroimd markings
show through. Accidents sometimes happen in the production of
these spirit images, and several of the negatives I obtained during
one experiment show a very ordinary enamel washing-up bowl on
the corner of a kitchen table beneath some very attractive " extras."
This bowl was in full view when the first, fake, exposure was made,
without the medium noticing it.
Lots of negatives obtained by Hope, before the Price experiment,
clearly showed double exposure markings down the edges of the
plate, and on some of these the film has been scraped away from
the glass to remove this evidence of double exposure. What is
meant by double exposure is that a plate is inserted in the slide and
a face is then photographed on it. The same plate, with the face
on it, is again inserted in the dark slide when it is used for photo-
graphing a sitter. Dark slides are made large enough to take the
plates easily, with the result that no plate occupies identically the
same position in the slide on each occasion. The plates are sheltered
at the edges, by the shde rebates, from the light entering the camera,
so that there is upon development a distinct hne down the margins
of the plate showing the unexposed portions. When the plate
has been inserted twice in the dark slide these tell-tale markings are
doubled and, of course, they are proof positive of double exposure.
The claim has been made that the Crewe Circle are not pro-
fessional mediums because they do not charge a fee. Although they
•do not specify a particular fee, they have always accepted fees from
myself and all other sitters I have known. They were, of course.
129] Report of an Investigation into Spirit-Photography 131
entitled to fees if genuine, but the sitter is also entitled to reasonable
assurance that what he is getting is genuine.
People say that if Hope is a fraud he must be remarkably clever,
but no great skill is required. A fake mediimi gets plenty of
practice, and imlike a conjuror he has not got to bring off the trick
at a given moment every time. The only risk he runs is that he
might be seized and searched, but I have never heard of this being
done.
In the Mariott-Douglas case, Mr Mariott, the magician, produced
fake effects with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Mr James Douglas,
without being discovered, under conditions far more stringent than
those obtaining wnth Hope at a test on a previous occasion.^
I have made very little reference to Mrs Deane in these experi-
ments. Through the courtesy of Miss Estelle Stead, Major Rose and
myself were able to have a number of sittings with Mrs Deane at
the Stead Bureau. Major Rose will refer to these results, but in
fairness to Mrs Deane I wish to make reference to a result I obtained
on the last occasion but one on which I sat with her. Unfortunately,
on this occasion Major Rose had made a mistake in the date so I
took the sitting alone with Mrs Deane. I was the first sitter on
that day and, using a box of plates provided by Miss Stead, I secured
a very clear " extra." I very carefully followed all the proceedings
without detecting anything in the least degree suspicious on the
part of Mrs Deane. After developing the plate I said to Mrs Deane
quite frankly, " Look here, I have got an excellent result. Now I
want to examine the whole of the place thoroughly." She raised
no objection whatever, and I went through the whole of the small
studio, top to bottom, through all the drawers and Mrs Deane's
bag, and I searched Mrs Deane herself as well as I could. I could
not discover the least trace of anything suspicious. At the end of
the search Miss Stead happened to come into the studio. I told her
what I had done.
The only loophole so far as I could see was that I had not used
my own plates. I have not the least shadow of doubt as to the
integrity of Miss Stead, but it may be argued that Mrs Deane had
access to the plates and could have faked a result beforehand. It
is perhaps unnecessary to add that I did not recognise the " extra
"
obtained. I very much regret to state also that this particular
negative shows the double exposure markings to which I have
already referred, so that the inference is obvious.
I should like to refer very briefly to some experiments conducted
with Hope by Dr Higson, an expert chemist, on behalf of the British
Photographic Research Association. The first report of the
Association, dated 1 September 1920, signed by Dr Higson, suggested
1 See Journ. S.P.R. (1920), xx. 219 g., 259 fi.
132 Fred Barlow [PAET
that in at least one result the shutter of the dark slide had been
partly withdrawn and the " extra " printed on this by normal means
immediately after the slide had been loaded. The Association
gave it as their considered opinion that all these alleged supernormal
results were produced by a small flashlight apparatus, and their
report goes on to say, " We have proved to our satisfaction that
phenomena, exactly similar to those produced by Mr Hope can be
produced on plates by purely normal means . . . without any great
fear of detection."
Further experiments were made in which it was noted that Hope
put the dark slide into his left pocket immediately after it had been
loaded and kept his hand there. ^ This loaded slide was actually in
Hope's possession for about a couple of minutes when Dr Higson
succeeded in substituting another loaded slide in place of it, without
Hope being any the wiser. The report proves that the loaded slide
which had been in Hope's possession for only two minutes and
which had never been inserted in a camera, contained a plate on
which an " extra " had been printed by Hope by means of this
flashlight apparatus. Naturally, Hope, who did not know of the
substitution of the plate, expressed great surprise when no " extra
"
appeared on the plate on development. In the full report by Dr
Higson and in subsequent correspondence from Dr T. Slater Price,
the Director of Research, it is stated quite conclusively that they
have no doubt whatever that Hope did fake the results by means
of some simple form of flashlight apparatus.^
My experience has been such that no photographic effect would
carry any weight with me again unless I could be absolutely sure
that fraud was entirely ruled out of court. To get this confidence
I am afraid I should have to be present at the experiment, because
I have been told so often in the past that fraud was impossible,
when a little cross-examination had proved that there was ample
opportunity for trickery.
At the same time one could devise fraud-proof conditions even
to the extent of allowing the medium to handle the plate, but it
seems impossible to get a present-day medium to submit to such
conditions.
I want to make it quite clear that I am not claiming that no
photographic medium has ever produced a genuine " extra."
What I do feel, however, is that the information Major Rose and
myself are placing before you in this paper indicates a very unsatis-
factory state of affairs in regard to this question of spirit photo-
graphy. To carry conviction the evidence for what are claimed to
^ See also p. 126 above.
^ This report has not been published, but a copy of it, with correspondence
relating to it, has been deposited at the Rooms of the Society.
PLATE V
Fig. 5. —Typical photooraplis of the Hash-lamp method taken at Ch'ewe by W. Hope
two isolated faces are taken from the same negatives and printed darker to show the
copying from an old photocraph.
Fig. 0. —Imitation Hash-llLiht " exti'as " produced under exactly the
same conditions as those shown in Fit;', o.
PLATE VI
129] Report of an Investigation into Spirit-Photography 133
be genuine results would have to be far more definite than anything
we have come across up to the present.
In concluding these remarks let me sum up the evidence against
Hope.
1. There is the Price experiment which most definitely proved
plate substitution.
2. There is the evidence of my friend, a well-known investigator,
concerning the very suspicious circumstances he observed at sittings
with Hope.
3. There is my considered statement to the effect that every
definitely recognised " extra " I have seen of Hope's is a copy of a
normal photograph, or such as could have been prepared from an
ordinary photograph.
4. There is the definite evidence of double exposure on Hope's
negatives.
5. There is the evidence showing that Hope's psychographs or
photographic messages, in themselves, provide internal evidence of a
very suspicious character.
6. There is the evidence of the British Photographic Research
Association and their definite conclusion that Hope produces his
effects by trickery.
7. There is the fact that in every so-called test sitting I have
conducted, or have heard of, I know of no instance where Hope
has got an " extra " which could not be produced in identical
circumstances by normal means.
8. There is the evidence of our own common-sense which rejects
these cut-out faces, block markings, magazine illustrations, cotton
wool and muslin effects, and which tells us that these things are just
as suspicious as they look.
Postscript.
Before the publication of this paper, Hope, in anticipation of
these criticisms, in a weekly Spiritualist paper attempted to give
some account of our sittings, and of his (Hope's) subsequent visit
to Major Rose at Chester. This account consists of a series of mis-
statements, so even if we had any doubts whatever about his
genuineness they would have been removed, since naturally a
person who does not adhere to the truth would not be above cheating
when the opportunity occurs.
II. By Major W. Rampling-Rose.
I should like first of all to pay a tribute to Mr Barlow for his moral
courage in writing what he has written above.
134 Major W. Eamplmg-Bose [part
My contribution will be largely technical. The pictures repro-
duced are those which were taken of Mr Barlow and myself—and
on two occasions a third person was included in the picture.
I will deal with those taken at Crewe with Hope first. The plates
and films which were used I brought from Chester myself, except
on one occasion which I shall describe presently. The method of
procedure was this : We met Hope at Mrs Buxton's house in
Market Street, and we held a rehgious service (the four of us) in the
front room, hands on table, plates, etc., in the middle. Then I
carried the material into the dark-room (a cupboard or hidey hole
under the stairs in the next room). Hope went in first, self next,
then Mr Barlow. Mrs Buxton never came in—the reason being
mainly physical, because when the three of us had crowded in, there
was no room for anyone else, especially a stout person like Mrs
Buxton. I undid the plates. Hope produced a wooden double
dark slide—two plates were loaded into this, I initialled them, and
out we all went into a sort of lean-to wash-house. The camera
used was an old-fashioned Lancaster's Instantograph about forty
years old—no cap or shutter on lens—exposure was made by the
simple process of pulling up the shutter of the dark slide and
pushing it down again when Hope thought the plate had received
sufficient exposure. Meanwhile, Hope and Mrs Buxton held hands
over the camera.
When the two plates were taken, we went back into the dark-
room—Hope leading the way. I unloaded the dark slide, reloaded
it with fresh plates, the exposures were made, and in all we generally
took six (I carried the exposed plates in my pocket). These were
then developed in the dark-room—three half-plate dishes were used
and about three ounces of pyro soda developer was poured from
dish to dish until the image was developed.
On three of the plates an " extra " would appear. The other
three had only the photographs of ourselves. The " extra
"
usually appeared on every second plate exposed. These " extras
"
completely puzzled me on at least two occasions, and I really
thought there was something supernormal after all. Mr Barlow
wanted me to be unbiased in my opinion, and he himself appeared
inclined to beUeve that the phenomena were genuine and super-
normal. The religious atmosphere and the earnestness of the
whole thing were most disarming. During the service, Hope
always said an extempore prayer and used such words as " Vouch-
safe, 0 Lord, a manifestation of thy Divine presence," etc., etc.,
so I can well understand how the casual visitor would be deceived.
On reading over my notes which I made directly I got home, I find
that I said, " The plates and shdes were under observation all the
time and yet extras appeared." Well, I was mistaken. I missed
129] Report of an Investigation into Spirit-Photography 135
out an obvious interval of a second or two, which was sufficient
time for Hope to put the " extras " on the plate in a natural way.
There are many ways of doing the same thing, and it is all a matter
of simple conjuring of the sleight-of-hand variety.
[At this point Major Rose, when reading this paper to the Society,
took an ordinary wooden double dark-slide, loaded with plates,
and from under the lapel of his coat he took a small flashlamp,
on the top of which was the positive image of a face. He showed
how simple is was to open with the fingers the easy fitting shutter
of the dark slide about an inch or so, and to place the flashlight in
contact with the plate. Then he switched on the light momentarily
and thus impressed an " extra " on the sensitive emulsion.]
It is the most natural thing in the world for the photographer,
when he has exposed two plates, to invite the sitters to come with
him into the dark-room and develop the plates or change them as
the case may be, and it is then that the photographer (whilst leading
the way into the dark-room and with his back to those who are
following him) has such a good chance to put the " extra on the
plate as shown (see Figs. 5, 6).
Another way of doing the same thing with a flashlamp was
under the focussing cloth when the dark slide was in position in
the camera. Mr Barlow has such photographs, which show a slight
fog patch where the daylight has got under the cloth and affected
the plate while the " extra " was being exposed. The photograph
plainly show^s how far the shutter was withdrawn. There is less
risk of fogging the plate, however, if the photographer uses the flash-
lamp when just entering the dark-room, taking care to keep the
slide close to the body and expose the bottom plate.
Yet another way is to work the same trick with a dark-slide in
the pocket, or when the plates are being marked by the sitter in
the dark-room after they have been inserted in the dark-slide. I
suggest that along these lines is the explanation how these " extras
"
were put on the plate.
There is, however, another method occasionally employed by
Hope—namely plate substitution. This happened in only one
case out of the dozen or more joint sittings we had at Crewe. Under
the usual method of procedure, there was little or no chance for Hope
to substitute a prepared plate for one of mine. One day, however,
when we were holding the usual service, Mr Barlow said, " Billy,
why not use one of your own plates and see if we can get a veiled
figure.'' After some further persuasion, Hope left the room, and
in due course, returned with a double dark-slide loaded with two
plates.
Referring to my notes on this occasion, I find the following,
" The reason why B. pressed Hope to use his own plates was (as
136 Major W. Rampling-Bose [part
lie told me afterwards) that in sucli cases a draped figure generally
appeared. Evidently, therefore, these prepared plates are kept
ready for visitors." Well, sure enough a draped figure did appear
on one of the plates (see Fig. 1).
I want to draw attention to these points : The face is cut out
from some printed matter—the fine dots of the screen can be
plainly seen. The pattern of the drapery is visible too, and the
grain indicates either cheese cloth or butter muslin. If anyone still
thinks that this is supernormal, I call their special attention to the
margin, where will be seen undoubted evidence of double exposure.
Hope did not want me to take this plate away with me. All
previous results I had taken away with me without his raising his
objection, but not this time. However, I promised to return it in
two days, together with an enlargement and a lantern slide. This
I did. I also took several contact prints from it for my own satis-
faction and study. The one partly shown here is very lightly
printed, so as to show the double rebate as can plainly be seen.
Some fortnight afterwards, Hope wrote to Mr Barlow and said
that he had not received the photographs as promised. I said that
I had certainly sent them, but as I had not put my name and
address on them, I could do nothing.
Some time after this, a lady from Chester went to Crewe. Hope
showed her this photograph, saying it was my mother, and that
I was a doctor (as a matter of fact I studied medicine when young).
The lady told Hope who I really was, and this knowledge, coupled
with the fact of some correspondence with Mr Barlow, brought
Hope to Chester. He turned up at my works this summer (1932),
and at our interview he mentioned this photograph and said to
me, " You know very well it's a spirit photograph of your dear
Mother." I laughed, and told him that my Mother was alive.
She is, by the way, as vigorous as a woman of 40, and although
over 80, her sight and hearing are as good as ever. She is, perhaps,
more outspoken than she used to be. I showed her this result
and told her about it, and how it was supposed to be a spirit photo-
graph of herself. She said a few words, forcible and to the point.
I smile now whenever I think of them.
Note, however, that Hope did receive the photographs I sent to
him : otherwise he could not have shown them to the lady. I told
Hope when he was in my office that I had enough evidence (if it was
a murder case) to convict him. Amongst other things said by
him was this, " If you will say the word, I will never take another
photograph again." My reply was that his future actions had
nothing whatever to do with me, and I did not want to control
them.
He offered to come over and give me a sitting in my works, but
PLATE VII
Fig. 8.—An enlargement of the extra seen in Fig. 7. Xote the
characteristic cotton -vvool effect.
PLATE VIII
I29j Report of an Investigation into Spirit-Photography 137
I refused unless Mr Barlow was present. In any case, it was quite
evident that all the results we obtained at Crewe were fraudulent,
so it was really not worth while wasting further time.
In addition to these experiments with Hope, I also tried to get
results on roll films, filmpacks, and plates that were left in the box,
and which had not been put into Hope's slides. I took all this
exposed and unexposed sensitive material back to my works, and
had them developed there—not specially—but in the ordinary
way, and in no case was there anything abnormal.
More than that, Mr Warrick, who believes both in Hope and Mrs
Deane, took the trouble to send over one of his travellers (also a
believer) to Crewe with a special fitment for Hope's camera contain-
ing a half-dozen plates. These Hope exposed in the ordinary
course, and the traveller arrived in Chester with the undeveloped
results. He was very earnest and emphatic in his assertions that
Hope had had no access to the plates, and that they had never been
in Hope's darkroom. Again nothing abnormal appeared.
So much for Hope, and now for Mrs Deane. The same religious
atmosphere, except that the prayer was the Lord's Prayer, and not
an extempore one. We sang a hymn chosen from a book. We
paid several visits, and together only obtained two results in which
a face appeared. Markings in other cases frequently happened.
I believe these to be of a chemical origin, and anyone could obtain
similar markings by purposely rubbing the emulsion with a finger
on which was an alkali of sorts. There is a distinct evidence of
fluid marks. We can dismiss these and come to the faces (see
Figs. 7-8).
Here we have undoubted and certain proof of the substitution of
a previously prepared plate. I have printed both these plates on
one piece of paper, giving the same exposure and, of course, both
sides developed, etc., together. I desire to make the following
points :
1. The two plates were supposed to be the same make (Wellington
Anti-Screen).
2. They both received the same exposure (31 sees.) and the light
conditions were identical.
3. Both plates were marked with a pin point drawn across the
corner—but only one scratch shows.
Mrs Deane asked somewhat anxiously whilst I was unwrapping
the plates in her dark-room, " These plates are not marked, are
they ?
" I said, " No," and that was true at the time, but as I
handed them to her one by one I scratched across the corner of
each with a pin.
4. They were developed together in the same dish for the same
length of time.
138 Major W. Rampling-Rose [part 129
5. They were fixed together.
6. The resulting negatives are very different, as can be seen,
because obviously the background of the " extra " one has received
more exposure than the other.
7. Hence the faces are " flatter."
8. The marginal rebate of the " extra " plate plainly indicates
two exposures.
9. The speed of the plate is different, as also is the density curve.
10. It is fogged at the top. This happened in many of Mrs
Deane's negatives that I have seen on which " extras " appeared.
There is a very simple explanation for this which I will not go into.
Fig. 8 is an enlargement of the " extra " on Fig. 7, and I want
to draw your attention to the cotton-wool effect. Many of Mrs
Deane's effects that I have seen are like this.
In Fig. 9, which was taken when Mr Barlow was by himself, as
he has already explained, you will notice the following points :
cotton wool, fogged top, and double rebate, and there is the same
evidence here as in the preceding one of the use of a previously
prepared plate.
In conclusion, I should like to add a personal note : For more
than thirty years I have been engaged in the photographic trade,
and during this time my work has been to track down defects (a sort
of detective, really), and to invent or devise methods to overcome
them.
I am always in touch with experts on matters photographic, and
my yearly output in business runs into milUons of photographs.
I have taken photographs in almost every part of the world, and
during the war I had four years' aerial photographic experience.
I mention these facts to emphasise and underline the following
statement
:
I do not remember ever seeing a single abnormal photograph of
all those which have passed through my hands that could not be
explained by purely natural means. If anyone doubts the fraudu-
lent nature of all the results and can find a reasonable supernormal
explanation, I shall be glad to hear it.
It will not be profitable to discuss results that others have ob-
tained, and in any case, it is only by making a series of experiments
that a satisfactory conclusion can be arrived at. Photography is
still a very mysterious thing to the large majority of people and
the ways of faking results are endless, even in the hands of those
who have only an elementary knowledge of it.
A CONSIDERATION OF A SERIES OF PROXY
SITTINGS.!
By the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas.
Readers of Miss Nea Walker's book, The Bridge, will be familiar
witli proxy sittings. They take us one step further in the study of
trance phenomena. During recent years I have sat with Mrs Osborne
Leonard on many occasions when her Controk Feda, has given infor-
mation of an evidential kind for persons who were not present and
who were unknown to the medium. Some of these I knew, some
I had met but once, of others I knew no more than was to be gathered
from their letter of appeal for help. These applicants for a message
from deceased friends represented many types of mind, varying
degrees of education, and diverse social positions. Those they de-
sired to hear from ranged from little children to aged people. In
perusing my records I find failures, several striking successes, and
indeed a rather bewildering variety of results. This is interesting
on any hypothesis of what actually took place ; for the conditions
were, so far as can be judged, identical for medium, Control and
sitter. I was not personally interested beyond a desire to help
people who were in sorrow, and to discover indications of what was
happening behind the scenes.
It may have been an advantage that I am a convinced Spiritualist
;
for it enabled me to act my part with sincerity both during the
sitting and when preparing for it at home. Yet I remained all the
time, as I hope and believe, a cool-headed psychical researcher,
always alert for possibilities of information leaking into the experi-
ment by normal channels and anxious to judge with precision the
value of each message.
It will naturally be suggested that no persons were likely to make
this kind of appeal unless they were inclined to believe in the possi-
bility of communication from the other world, and that, therefore,
they would be predisposed to accept the result with a somewhat
indiscriminating readiness, if not with so great a will-to-believe as
would render their supposed verifications valueless.
To guard against this I have made a point of ascertaining from
the applicants why they considered such and such items to be
evidential. They have supplied me with the requisite information,
so that the statement made during the sitting can be paired with
the relevant facts. With records thus completed I have obtained
the kind assistance of Mrs W. H. Salter and of Mr H. F. Saltmarsh
1 Read at a Private Meeting of the Society, 30 September 1931.
H 139
140 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
CHART OF CASES
This Chart of twenty-four proxy cases is so arranged as to present
substituted for personal names in deference to the wish of a minority
placed in the order of merit agreed upon by those who undertook
of
Ide
Fair
o
thai
O
de: an
Evi 4^
M
<U
-1-2
-f^ i-i
<X> o
-Q o
!h
o
f-l
Rs Poo
Date of
Sitting.
Feb. 1917
Feb. 1929
March 1922
April 1931
July 1931
Feb. 1921
Jan. 1930
Oct. 1927
March 1930
Jan. 1928
April 1930
March 1929
Aug. 1930
April 1929
Sept. 1922
May 1928
March 1929
April 1929
Dec. 1930
Jan. 1928
March 1931
Oct. 1929
Dec. 1930
Jan. 1929
Case.
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
J
K
L
M
N
P
Q
R
S
u
V
w
X
Y
Age and Sex of
Communicator.
Man 24.
Man elderly.
Boy 8.
Girl 19.
School boy.
Man 20-25.
Boy 161.
Man under-
graduate.
Man 20-25.
Lady elderly.
Lady 23.
School boy.
Lady mid-age,
Man 47.
Lady elderly.
Lady mid-age.
Lady young
iJTarried.
Girl 8^.
Girl 7.
Lady 53.
Lady mid -age.
Man elderly.
Senior school
boy.
Ladv elderly.
Relatives
expecting
or hoping
for
Message ?
No.
No.
Yes.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Relatives
known to
Sitter ?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
No.
No.
No.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
No.
No.
No.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 141
TO BE DISCUSSED.
at a glance the points in which they differed. Letters have been
that the family name should not appear in print. The cases are
the work of valuation.
By whom
How Sitter made the Subject Communicator said By whom Messages
request for Message.
n7£iQ riT'rtnr'nprl were said to he given
at the Present. to Feda.
Sitting.
Mentally. Feda. Present. Himself.
Mentally. Sitter. Present. Etta (my sister).
Mentally. Feda. Usually absent. Etta.
Asked previously. Feda. Present. My father.
Asked previously. Feda. Present. Etta.
Volunteered by my Feda. Present. Etta controllmg and
father and Etta. Himself.
Mentally. Sitter. Present. Etta and Himself.
Mentally. Feda. Present. Himself.
-
Mentally. Feda. Present. Himself.
Mentally. Sitter. Present. Herself.
4sked Tireviouslv Feda. Present. Etta.
Mentally. Feda. Absent. By " H " a previous
communicator.
Mentally. Feda. Present. Herself.
Mentally. Feda. Present. Himself.
Asked previously. Sitter. Usually absent. Part herself. Part
by my father.
Mentally. Sitter. Present. Herself.
Asked iireviouslv Feda. Absent. Etta.
Asked previously. Feda. Present. Herself and by my
father.
Asked pre\'iously. Feda. Present. Herself.
Mentally. Feda. Present. Herself.
Asked previously. Feda. Present at one of Herself and by my
tAvo sittings. father.
Asked previously. Feda. Present. Himself.
Asked previously. Sitter. Present. Himself.
Asked previously. Feda. Present. Etta.
142 The Rev. G. Drayton Thomas [part
and his friend Mr H. Mallet. These have studied the records and
assigned to each its value from an evidential point of view. I am
indebted to the above for their kindness in valuing the whole series,
and to other of our members for studying a lesser number and giving
their opinion as to evidential values.
The examiners were in fairly close agreement and classify the
cases thus :
Good prima facie evidence of identity - - - - 4
Fair prima facie evidence of identity - - - - 4
Poor to fair prima facie evidence of identity - - 7
Inconclusive or failures ------ 9
In this arrangement no case has been given the benefit of a doubt.
Where, for example, a case has been classed as " good " by two
examiners and " fair " by the third, it has been placed among the
" fair," on the principle that it is preferable to under-estimate and
thereby make the argument based upon these cases more sure.
The above values indicate that, in these proxy sittings, we have
material worth discussing. Since several attempts failed completely
we find the two extremes of success and failure, and there are inter-
mediate cases making a gradation of results passing from failure at
one end to success at the other.
The chart on pp. 140, 141 shows at a glance the relative conditions
to which allusion will be made in discussing the significance of
twenty-four proxy sittings. As will be shown later, the variation
in conditions led to no conclusion : this in itself is a point of some
importance.
Some idea of the types of evidence given may be obtained from
the following examples. Commencing with the 4th, the poorest, we
take others from the 3rd and 2nd, and finally from the 1st class.
Case " Wr ^"^'^
After receiving notes of this sitting, the applicant sent for my
inspection the photograph of an oil painting, representing his father,
an elderly German aristocrat, attired in a costume which would
strike English eyes as peculiar. This was especially so of the head-
gear. I do not recollect having seen anything quite like it.
The accompanying letter said :
" The original portrait hangs in
a room in my sister's house. The picture is a painting representing
my father, the peculiar cap is a Spanish boina. Nearly all the things
in that room are connected with my late wife : she occupied the
room for some months in 1928."
I now quote the paragraph in the proxy sitting to which the
above would seem to refer :
Feda. There is a room with a picture of a man with a peculiar
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 143
cap. The man in the picture is elderly and seems to be in an alto-
gether unusual costume which is expressed particularly by the head-
gear. In this room are several things connected with the lady who
has passed over.
Items correct
:
1. In room containing articles connected with the applicant's wife,
2. is picture of elderly man,
3. in unusual costume,
4. and a peculiar cap.
Case " r."
I was subsequently informed that this schoolboy had, five months
before his death, spent a holiday in Switzerland with his head master.
This holiday was spoilt by an accident in which the boy sprained his
ankle and was obliged to spend several days in the chalet instead
of making excursions with his companions.
The father had insured his son's life. On the boy's death this
money was devoted to his memorial in their church. The Christmas
after his death all the family were together in the old home with
the exception of a married daughter and her husband. As the date
of this sitting was Christmas Eve, the family gathering must have
already assembled.
Feda. He was a boy full of life, but he had something a few months
before he passed over which annoyed him, because it happened at
a time when he wanted very much to do something, and that im-
pressed it on his mind. I don't get much link between that and
his passing ; I get the feeling of a place he was fond of. It is all
up and down, you could not walk very far along the roads without
having to go up hill or down. He was there. It was not his home,
he was doing something there, I get a name " S " connected with
the place, it is not a short name, he tries to give me an impression
of it as if there were a lot of letters in it.
There was a sheet of paper with printing on it which seemed to
refer to money, or money's worth, I felt you could hand this paper
over and get some money for it, it is a numbered paper. It is some-
thing he had here in his earth life and did not use, anyhow, it be-
longed to him, it was for him and he had not intended using it for
some time. His people felt they would like to use it for some special
purpose.
He says, I shall be with those who are going to be together at
Christmas, but they will be thinking about two other people who
cannot be with them.
Items correct
:
1. Annoying accident a few months before his death.
2. He was in " S " (longish place-name) uphill and down.
144 The Bev. C. Drayton Tliomm [part
3. There was a nixmbered paper referring to him for which money
could be obtained.
4. His people wished to iise this money for a special purpose.
5. Two absentees from the family Christmas gathering.
Class III.
Case " J."
This communicator was one of four children who, when quite
small, had each received from an aunt in Australia an Australian
sixpemiy piece. When the communicator emigrated to Australia,
his sixpence was added to his father's coin collection and forgotten.
While at school the Communicator had among his treasured pos-
sessions a puzzle money box. At the time of my sitting this was
in England, in a case, still unpacked since a recent change of family
residence. Some weeks after the sitting I was shown this box. I
failed to open it, and then noticed the relevancy of the phrase used
by Feda, " pushing it to see if it would come open " ; for in the
process of opening this box it is necessary to push one part against
another part. It was not, as Feda thought, made of metal, but of
hard dark wood.
Feda. " Sixpence . . . sixpence " (the word was twice whispered
softly). Such a silly little thing, he feels he has to apologise for
naming it, but he thinks they found a sixpence belonging to him
in an unexpected place. They knew it was his sixpence. He thinks
they will remember about it because it was rather out of the ordinary.
Tell them they found a funny little box but did not know how to
open it, it puzzled them. He is amused about it, it is a most awfully
difficult thing to open—knocking it and pushing it to see if it would
come open. It is something he had a good while before he passed
over, not a new thing.
As the parents did not trace the reference to a sixpence, I re-
ported at my next sitting that this point was a failure. My father
replied that the Communicator had been very definite about it, and
therefore suggested that the parents would probably remember later,
as the boy seemed so certain. This expression of confidence is in-
teresting in view of the fact that although the parents assured me
that they had no knowledge of any special sixpence, yet some weeks
later I received a letter from them saying that it was found, and
when I called on them they told me the above facts.
Ilenis correct :
1. Parents have a special sixpence which belonged to Communi-
cator.
2. And a puzzle Ijox he possessed long ago,
3. which must be " pushed " to open.
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 145
Case " g."
Feda. There may have been something the matter with her head
or mind. Your father has seen her and she kept expressing regret,
he must even term it sorrow and regret. He would say quite defi-
nitely that her mind was in a very peculiar condition. She says
she was aware of that herself without realising the danger. He keeps
repeating, " Not accountable for actions. I will say that quite defi-
nitely." She kept saying to him, " What would her husband think ?
"
She spoke of Enid. The lady has relatives known to her husband
who lived abroad.
I was later informed by the husband that for some time, before
passing, the Communicator had a troublesome chronic condition of
the arteries ; also a degree of mental failure which led to erratic
behaviour. Also that a niece to whom she was much attached was
named Enid : and that a stepsister and family reside in India.
Items correct :
1. Mental failure for some time before passing.
2. Enid.
3. Relatives living abroad.
Class II.
Case " i/."
This Communicator's father, a vicar, resided two miles from a
northern town, C . For some years there had been talk about
a proposed enlarging of the vicarage ;
the final decision to enlarge
was reached twelve months before the Communicator's death,
although commencement was postponed on account of illness.
Feda. He gives Feda the feeling that a house or place he knew
very well, and of which he would be thinking when on earth, was
not quite in the town but on the outskirts. It was near the town.
He builds a letter " C " for near where he lived.
A little before he passed his people had been talking about building
or erecting something in which they all were interested.
The Communicator was killed while returning to his university
by motor cycle. It had been originally planned that he should
return on the Saturday afternoon, but at the last moment he re-
ceived an invitation to a tennis party on that day, and after some
doubt and discussion it was decided that his departure should be
postponed until the Simday morning. This postponement has been
a matter of regret ever since ;
for, had the journey been taken on
Saturday, as originally planned, the collision which killed him would
not have occurred.
Feda. He wishes to tell his parents that he had made an alteration
in the time of going and that that caused him to be just at the spot
where the accident happened.
146 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
Items correct
:
1. Lived near town C .
2. Interested in building which was talked of.
3. Alteration in time of starting led to death. " "
Case "E."
Fcda. There is something that his mother has been looking at and
handling, it is a round metal disc with a hole in it, something he
used to use and play with. I can't see what it is for. I should
imagine it is really some loose part of something he had been fond
of and that he would have been using and playing with up to a
short time before he passed over.
The mother of this boy writes that after his death she took out
of his coat pocket a metal disc with a hole in it.
Fcda. He wants to say that he was entrusted, that he was rather
pleased with himself because he was entrusted with locking some-
thing up, entrusted with keys in a rather peculiar way. It is some-
thing he was rather proud of and was taught and allowed to do.
" We always trusted him to lock up the flat and to meet us for
a jaunt in town, and he always '
held the fort ' when we could not
take him with us. Locking up carefully and seeing to everything.
He was very proud of that."
Items correct
:
1. He played with a round metal disc with hole in it.
2. His mother handled this after his death.
3. He was trusted with keys and locking up.
4. He was proud of that.
Class I. •
Ca.se " C."
Throughout this case, which spread over several sittings, my sister
Etta gave the messages for and about a young boy, presumably too
yoimg to communicate direct. It emerged, in the course of the
sittings, that he had always looked forward to the arrival of a weekly
paper. It was the comic section of this paper which interested him.
For test purposes, at my request, the parents put away copies of
this paper and I eventually learned that they were placed in a linen
box under the china cabinet where plates were kept.
Feda. About Willie's home . . . they have a paper there, one that
they get weekly ... a large " C " on the top of this paper. ... It
has pictures which Willie used to like looking at. Etta wants to
suggest that copies should be kept so that she and WiUie may try
to get little tests from them. Willie, who is playing about while
she speaks, remarks that the papers will be " put in a place where
plates are."
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 147
Willie had lived in Regina, Canada, and went to a school called
" Strathcona." Around the school swings there were railings which
Willie often climbed against orders.
Feda. He seems to like some particular place where there was a
kind of railing which he used to climb over ; he ought not to have
done this, but she understands that he certainly did and very often.
A place quite close to where he lived, rather a long name S ,
was one that he would know well and be fond of. It may have been
a house or an estate, some place of that sort.
I learned later that Willie's mother often made backstone cakes,
flat pieces of paste. Willie was particularly fond of these ;
his
mother made them regularly for years.
Feda. " No hot cakes here," he says, but he does not want them.
Etta understands there were some cakes which were eaten hot at
his home. Do they make their own bread ? because Willie described
how on a certain day there was a good deal of baking going on.
He was interested not in the loaves of bread but in the small flat
pieces of paste, looking like bread mixture and arranged on flat
sheets of tin . . . apparently it is something they do regularly.
Early in November 1922, Willie's father, accompanied by a friend,
called at the Stock Yards to see some horses ; while there the con-
versation turned on the cutting of ice, which is done on a large scale
in that part of Canada, thousands of tons being cut and stored for
the summer. The boy's father is an engineer.
Feda. Tell his father that Willie accompanied him on a journey,
quite lately ; a name " S " to do with the place, rather a long name.
While there Willie went to look at some animals and was very
interested in horses.
His father was talking about cutting operations, as if he were
going to do cutting and trimming on a rather large scale.
A comparison of dates shows that this visit and conversation was
but a few days before the particular sitting at which it was men-
tioned.
My sister Etta sometimes alluded to deceased relatives of Willie's
mother, of whom apparently she had heard in the Beyond, or
possibly met there. Among these she mentioned one, William, a
connection of Emma's (Willie's mother), and I later learned that
Emma's cousin, this William Jones, had passed over about four
years previously. He was a sea-faring man, a marine engineer, fre-
quently sailing from Cardiff and Barry. His ships used to go to
northern Russia for grain. His wife was Isobel. His passing was
sudden.
Feda. There is a William closely connected with Emma, con-
nected not with Canada and not near London, but away in the
provinces. Ships . . . ships . . . someone closely connected with
148 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
Emma who all his life was connected with ships. He passed over
suddenly. He had when here connections with the north. One
closely connected with him was called Isobel.
Correct items :
1. Weekly paper C , with pictures interesting to the child.
2. Kept where plates are.
3. He climbed railings, against orders, at a place
4. S (long name) he was fond of.
5. Had small, flat, hot cakes on certain days.
6. Recent journey to " S "
—where were horses, ,
7. and talk about catting operations on large scale.
8. William, a relative of the boy's mother passed suddenly, and
9. was connected with ships and with the north,
10. and with Isobel.
This case included some fifty correct evidential items.
Case Dr
Among the evidential items given by this girl, who had died as
the result of a motor accident, I select the following. It refers to
the motor accident which was caused by swerving in order to avoid
children who suddenly ran into the road from a cottage. She and
her sister had been away for the night. Their intention of returning
home on the Sunday was revised and they lunched with friends in
another direction on Monday ;
thus their originally planned route
homeward was changed. A smaller detour occurred through an
error by which they missed a loop road which would have avoided
the village in which the accident happened.
The mother's letter runs :
" The whole story, briefly, is this. . . .
L and M were to spend Saturday night with friends. This plan was
extended to staying over the Simday night : first alteration in pro-
gramme. They had this very Monday a luncheon engagement with
friends near S . To this already crowded programme they then
added the fetching of their sister from the railway station in the
early evening. Now the direct route would have been via B
and not via S ,
but alteration No. 2 entailed this latter route.
Then at the loop avoiding C village, they mistook the rather
confusing signpost and instead of taking the by-pass, as was their
intention, they went on the old road through the village. Just
before the two roads join again the children ran out. They were
'
awkward obstacles.' It was the swerving to avoid them which
caused the car to overturn."
Feda. She was going somewhere, a little journey, when she passed
over, and making a detour, a change from the original intentions.
I gather (said my father who was transmitting this) that there had
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Siftings 149
been one or two alterations in the programme that she was going to
carry out just before her passing—and obstacles, awkward obstacles.
This was the indirect cause of her death.
After the accident she lingered for several days, being nursed by
her mother and an Austrian friend, attended by two Austrian maids.
Two Swiss cousins had been staying with the family for some weeks
previous to the accident.
Feda. She had just been with and thinking of foreign people,
people from abroad. I understand that she had been thinking about
those who spoke broken English or another tongue.
Items correct :
1. A detour on a little journey.
2. One or two alterations to the programme.
3. Awkward obstacles indirectly caused death.
4. With foreigners.
These examples lose in impressiveness by being presented apart
from their context, and by being thus seen in isolation and not
surrounded with a group of subsequently verified statements, as was
the case with the majority. But our present purpose will be suf-
ficiently served if they should satisfy the reader that statements
were made, not easily attributable to chance, which were found to
agree with facts.
Needless to add, I knew nothing of their relevancy, accuracy or
likelihood, when recording them at the sitting. After sending a copy
of my record, I had to wait the applicant's reply before learning
whether anything was recognised.
I have not given examples from my two best cases, " A " and
" B," and have included some from the poorest cases of the series.
AVhence came the veridical information ? From the applicant, or
from the deceased person we desired to hear from, and whom it will
be convenient to term " the Communicator " ? Let us discuss each
alternative, and firstly the probability or otherwise of the veridical
information having had its source in the mind of the applicant.
Now the outstanding feature of this series is the wide variation
of result extending as it does from total failure to unquestionable
success. If there were telepathic contact between the applicant and
the medium, why did it fail with one and succeed with another ?
The Telepathic Hypothesis.
In trying to visualise this telepathic hypothesis, we may suppose
either that the applicant's unconscious broadcasting is caught by
the medium direct, or (which complicates the picture, but possibly
adds to its interest) we may conceive that the applicant, having
written to me, and so having me more or less in mind, subconsciously
150 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
supplies me with the information. Then, all unaware of the cargo
that I carry, I attend the sitting and pass on the information to
the medium, subconsciously of course. It is an intriguing picture,
and vastly important if correct ; but is it true to fact ?
I return to the question which must run like a theme through
this paper : Why should the results differ so widely ? If the medium
finds information in my mental field, why does she fail to voice it
in one case, and yet succeed in another ? It might, of course, be
suggested that in the case of successes there was greater telepathic
force when the applicant turned his thoughts to me, and that the
failures occurred with applicants who were lacking the requisite
degree of telepathic energy. Let us, therefore, ask, might variation
in telepathic energy among the applicants account for the success
of one and the failure of another ?
I cannot think that this is a satisfactory explanation. For, in
scanning experiences of fifteen years with the same medium, I notice
that a number of evidential messages have been given as if from
people recently deceased, whose relatives had neither appealed to
me nor expected to hear either from me or the departed.
Most of these messages contained information which had been
unknown to me and which I later discovered to be correct.
An outstanding instance occurred on my first visit to Mrs Leonard,
when a man who had fallen in the War six weeks previously gave a
long and accurate list of identity items. This case " A " (see chart)
is placed in the best class by each of the examiners ; items of infor-
mation were given which had never been within my knowledge, and
included descriptions of his last days which were confirmed by letters
from his ofiicers.
Although his parents were known to me, it is to be noted that
they expected no message and were unaware that I was investigating
mediumship. Their thoughts had not turned towards me in their
sorrow. Yet this case is outstanding for its multiplicity of accurate
detail.
As previously stated there have been similar successes in con-
nection with deceased acquaintances of my own, in none of which
had the relatives any reason to think especially of me or to expect
information from the deceased through me. In short, there was no
reason why their telepathic thought should supply me with informa-
tion. Notwithstanding that, the evidential matter was good, in-
cluding what was unknown to me as well as what was familiar.
Fiu'thermore, I have had some complete failures when the appli-
cant had not only definitely asked me to obtain messages, but had
agreed, both by correspondence and also in interviews with me, to
be thinking strongly of the deceased and to make mental request
for a message to be given at my sitting—of the date and time of
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 151
which I informed him. I am thinldng particularly of a doctor who
desired a message from his wife. Not only did we fail, but we
failed in repeated attempts. That does not look like telepathy from
the applicant reaching my mind and passing thence to the mediimi,
although there is a possibility that the doctor's strong desire may
in some way have inhibited his subconscious activity. I admit the
possibility because the conditions which facilitate telepathy between
human minds are so elusive that little is known about them.
It is further to be remembered that in this and similar cases there
was present in the applicant that strong emotional element which
is generally believed to facilitate telepathy.
With the above failure of the doctor, who was certainly thinking
of me and of my sitting with Mrs Leonard, compare the result in
cases where the applicants were not informed that I proposed to
make the attempt, where they did not know the dates of my sittings,
and, if they knew IVIrs Leonard by name, that would be the extent
of their knowledge (see cases A, B, E, J).
Yet for these people I succeeded, while for the doctor I failed.
It does not seem probable that telepathy from the applicants, had
it been an active factor, was likely to have failed in the one case
where all conditions seemed favourable and to have succeeded in
the others where conditions, so far as one can judge, were weighted
against success. However, it may be worth noting that this case
of the doctor's is the only one in the series where the person asked
for had died several years previously. Could this lapse of time have
presented an additional difficulty ? We do not know.
Again, if telepathy from applicants were an active factor, it should
have been facilitated in instances where I personally interviewed
the apphcant shortly before taking the proxy sitting. I had such
interviews in several cases. Were those results at all superior ?
They mostly failed. Had mental radiation, or telepathy, or thought
transmission—call it what we may—-been in action, one cannot but
think it would at least have saved a majority from failure.
Although applicants usually hoped for or expected success, we
find that some of the best cases were exceptions, while in all the
failures there had been expectancy. This result seems to indicate
that expectancy on the part of relatives was not a factor in success.
Let us proceed to the alternative hypothesis and suppose that the
information passed telepathically from the applicant direct to Mrs
Leonard. I put this question : Why, if that be so, do we find such
wide difference in the results ?
Some of the most likely cases—(I mean cases Kkely to be specially
successful if this telepathic hypothesis represents what actually takes
place)—some of these most liiely cases fail, while others much less
likely achieve success. I think, for example, of a member of the
152 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
Society for Psychical Research who wrote to me, hoping for a com-
munication from his wife. He had already written out certain
particulars and sent them to the officials of this Society. In his
letter to me he said, " The unusual nature of what took place, known
only to a few friends and to the officials of the S.P.R., would, I thiixk,
make such an experiment a valuable one to try. The matter has
been so much in my mind that, if I were the sitter, the explanation
of telepathy would be hard to resist." I promised to try, and he
had all the advantage I was able to offer him. Just before my sitting
he wrote, " I will do my best between now and Friday along the
lines you suggest to ask my wife to attend the sitting. It may be
useful for you to know her Christian name, and I have accordingly
enclosed it in a separate envelope, which you will open or not, as
you think best."
I have quoted the above (Case " R ") to show that the conditions
appeared to offer a fair opportunity for telepathy. The result was
failure. The best he could say of it was, " It impressed me, as,
though there are no striking pieces of evidence, yet the description
of my wife's character, the reference to the chest and our station
in life, and most of all the remark about being friendly with doctors,
all seem to me to be close to the mark."
According to my standard of what constitutes success I class this
result as much too meagre to rank as anything but failure. Why
should it have failed when, on the telepathic hypothesis, everything
seemed to favour success, including emotional urge, full informa-
tion about the medium and the time of my sitting, as well as a belief
in the possibility of communication ? Why did this case fail when
certain others succeeded, cases in which such favouring conditions
were absent, and where there was no link with me or with the
medium, nothing save one letter of appeal which had reached me
from a total stranger ?
No case in the series offered more scope for telepathy than that
of " W." It was passed on to me by Miss Nea Walker after she had
tried unsuccessfully with mediums.' The husband, a German noble-
man, was ardently desiring to hear from his recently deceased wife,
and he readily agreed to do all I suggested with a view to informing
her of the opportunity offered by my sittings. Many letters passed
between us, one of which I read aloud to the medium before her
trance. The man's earnestness and strong emotion were manifest,
and yet two messages only were given in seven sittings. These were
evidentially weak, and the result is placed low among failures. Dis-
tance could not have been the hindrance ; for in the successful cases
" C " and " G " the applicants were in Canada.
Further, if the information goes from the applicant to the medium,
how are we to explain the fact that the messages are expressed as
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 153
from the Communicator's natural point of view, and not from that
of the applicants ? One could understand telepathy from the appli-
cant emerging in the medium's mind as a list of disconnected tacts,
some relating to the deceased and many others having nothmg to
do with him ; but we find, on the contrary, in these messages, the
warm vital glow of one who speaks feelingly, as from the other side
of death, to those left behind. I behave this point merits more
consideration than it usually receives. _ .
Very illuminating in this connection was a series ot sittings m eacn
of which I hoped to obtain from the recently deceased wife ot a
solicitor some messages for her husband (Case " Q "). They came.
They were characteristic of her. They revealed facts, mcluding
names of relatives and their doings, all of which were unknown to
me •
for I had never met the lady although knowing the husband.
But he was not satisfied. I found that he was waiting for reference
to one particular thing about which there had been some difference
of opinion between his wife and himself. It was not mentioned.
Finally I put a guarded question which the husband had prepared.
He was not satisfied with the result. What he wanted to hear was
not said. I could not pry into this old disagreement between hus band
and wife, but I did gather from his disappointment that, even in
the Land Beyond, she kept her own opinion still. I may add, that
finally I took him to sit with the medium. The result was the same ;
there was no advance in the dkection he desired. Nor did 1 see
any indication that the Communicator did better evidentially m his
presence than she had done with me alone.
We are for the moment inquiring whether telepathy from the
applicants might explain the undoubted production of veridical in-
formation, and I have indicated some observed facts which seem to
show that distant telepathy was not the operating cause.
In studying the successful proxy cases it is to be noted that their
information is presented in a form markedly different from that
with which one is familiar in cases of telepathy or even m what is
termed " psychometry." For we find from these Commumcators,
not a mere succession of cold statements, nor catalogues of things
or of actions, but, on the contrary, a something hving. Their remarks
are not at all suggestive of oddments extracted from a bundle ot
sloughed off earth memories, nor of contact with a fading " psychic
trace," but a hving personality is revealed. Someone is thinking
about those once loved and loved still.
Dr W^alter Prince has analysed such typical differences m a note-
worthy paper. It is entitled " Certain characteristics of veridical
mediumistic phenomena compared with those of phenomena gener-
ally conceded to be telepathic." It was read before the Copenhagen
Congress of 1921. In that paper Dr Prince enumerates thirty dis-
154 The Rev. G. Drayton Thomas [part
tinctions between telepathic and mediumistic messages ; some of
these may be of slight importance in themselves, but others are
impressive. We find at least a score of contrasts by which the two
classes of message may be certainly distinguished. The whole of
Dr Prince's paper is worthy of careful study ; much of it is relevant
to this discussion, and I quote the following passages (see pp. 112-4
of the Report, International Psychical Research Congress at Copen-
hagen, 1921).
" In telepathy the great bulk of experimental and spontaneous
data show that there is a pre-established rapport between recipient
and agent, either because each knows that he is experimenting with
the other or because of a strong sympathetic bond between them.
Also, usually, although the testimony is not uniform on this point,
success is aided by the two being near each other. But the theory
that the best and most evidential cases in Spiritist communications
are of the same nature, in that the medium derives her information
from the living by telepathy, often requires that—(1) either from
the medium's mind must go out something, not only to the sitter,
but also, directly or indirectly, to persons unknown to her and per-
haps to the sitter likewise, irrespective of distance, and bring back
information from various quarters and directions, selectively adapted
to the subject in hand. Or (2), that somehow telepathic waves must
originate with these various persons in various places, at various
distances, which go to the mind of the medium and deftly fill up
lacunae in the memoranda drawn from the sitter.
" We have remarked that the data indicate that the telepathic
correspondences if they are not due to contemporaneous thoughts
of the agent, seldom seem to go back further than one day. But
the telepathy required for such Spiritist cases as we have just alluded
to must be even more transcendant than thus far pointed out. For,
while one needful or convenient fact for a mediumistic communica-
tion might, if there is means to do it, be procurable from Aunt Mary
50 miles away westward, another fact from Grandfather Brown
300 miles away eastward, another fact from a man living in the
neighbourhood where father was born 1000 miles away southward,
and still another fact from one of several persons somewhere in the
world acquainted with an excessively rare book in which it is re-
corded, it cannot be supposed, especially as the incident may be one
of thirty years ago, that all these persons were either mentally
engaged upon their several facts contemporaneously with their re-
hearsal by the medium, or that they have all thought of them for
months or years. Thus it must be admitted, we would have a tele-
pathic maze in type, range and complexity far beyond anything
indicated within the circle of telepathy of which we have present
knowledge."
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 155
So far Dr Prince. Resuming our search for the originating mind
in the successful proxy cases, we may inquire whether there existed
any vahd reasons for anticipating that we should find that telepathy
from applicants had been, in play. It may be said that, on rare
occasions, telepathic experiments between distant persons have
succeeded in transmitting information, but it should be remembered
that the few and meagre records of successful experiment in distant
telepathy show merely that, occasionally, there have been trans-
mitted mental pictures of objects, or a list of nouns with an occa-
sional verb to help out the meaning, or some vague feeling whether
of unrest or of satisfaction.
The transmission of sentences has been rare indeed, and I doubt
whether in all the records of psychical research, telepathy has ever
achieved anything comparable to the completeness and accuracy of
the best mediumistic messages. // the better of my proxy cases are
the result of telepathy from the applicants, they certainly represent
an achievement without parallel in hnown records of experimental
telepathy.
Compare them with Dr Coover's prolonged and multiplied experi-
ments, totalling 14,900, with all variety of Agents, and the result a
total failure. (See Experiments in 'Psychical Research at Leland
Stanford Junior University, California, J. E. Coover, 1917.)
Recall the failure of the broadcasting experiment conducted by
the Society for Psychical Research and the B.B.C., and, finally, of
that long-continued and finely planned experiment which Mr S. G.
Soal and his friends conducted recently for this Society. (See Proc.
S.P.R., April 1928 and April 1932.)
With such failures in mind we realise how great a contrast is pre-
sented by the flow of veridical information which the better of these
proxy sittings afford. Most certainly there was some cause operating
in the latter which was inoperative in all the former. It should be
noticed also that, while the above-mentioned experiments failed,
some at least among the proxy sittings achieved undoubted success
under conditions which would seem far less promising ; for the
applicants did not know me, they did not know the medium, and
there was little or nothing to assist them in directing their thought
consciously or subconsciously. Few of them knew the day on which
I proposed to make the attempt, some of them did not even know
that I proposed to try. To have achieved the transmission of so
much accurate information under these conditions is a triumph
which surpasses, so far as I am aware, every extant record of tele-
pathy at a distance. And this superiority in proxy messages, for
unknown p)eople from unknown Communicators, not only exceeds tlie
fragmentary success of conscious telepathic effort, but also, I believe,
of the very best instances of spontaneous telepathy.
156 The Rev. C. Drayion Thomas [part
I am, therefore, compelled to the conclusion that there is
no evidence to show that telepathy from the applicants played
any part in providing the information found in these proxy
sittings.
It may be said, and quite truly, that little is known of the con-
ditions under which thought-transmission can take place between
persons separated by distance. Nor are we likely to extend our
present knowledge until we succeed in effecting telepathic trans-
mission under conditions which lend themselves to experiment. We
cannot rest satisfied with proof of the fact, we need to discover its
modus oferandi. At present we have hypotheses, but not know-
ledge : indeed, so great is our ignorance that some serious students
question whether telepathy happens apart from some degree of dis-
carnate co-operation. They point out that the psychic energy of
the transmitter, or the receptive sensibility of the receiver, may
perhaps be heightened to effective point by the proximity of a dis-
carnate Guide or Control ;
or, alternatively, that such discarnates
may actually convey the impression or message which the recipients
assume to have been telepathic. Without expressing an opinion
upon this hypothesis, we may say that, so far as the study of re-
corded telepathic experiences "takes us, it provides no data upon
which our proxy successes can be attributed to thought-transmission
from minds on earth.
Hypothesis of the Mediurns Cryptesthesia {Richet),
or Metagnomy {Osly).
We must now ask whether the veridical information was obtained
from the apphcants by the medium. We have pictured the latter
passively receiving information which arrived telepathically, but let
us now think of her as reaching out, in some mental or psychic way,
to search for appropriate facts.
The foregoing argument against the telepathic explanation may
be used here also quite effectively.
Again we are faced by the wide difference in results, many cases
fail, others achieve success. If the medium's own activity obtained
the information, it should have been more uniformly successful.
There were some complete failures just where success should, on
this hy])othesis, have been most likely, namely in those instances
where I had interviewed the applicant shortly before the sitting.
Such personal intercourse showed no superiority over the cases where
no interview had taken place.
One can visualise this hypothetical working of the medium's
faculty thus : it enables her to perceive that I hope for messages
applicable to the deceased relative of the latest applicant : as I had
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 157
received a letter from that applicant his whereabouts can be dis-
covered through me : the medium finds him, sets to work iipon him,
and apposite information is obtained. That is a series of supposi-
tions placed like stepping stones over a stream. Can we safely trust
them ?
Granting that successes might be thus hypothetically attributed
to the medium's own unaided faculty, what are we to think of the
many failures ? There were several bad failures in cases where the
applicant and I had been particularly eager to ensure success by
giAdng the most favourable conditions. In two instances I took the
applicant's letter to the sitting. In another I went so far as to read
aloud the letter of appeal immediately before the mediimi went into
trance. Such procedure might be expected to stimulate any
mediumistic faculty capable of procuring informati on ;
yet those
three cases failed completely.
On several occasions I changed the procedure by asking my
regular Communicators, my father and my sister, to try and find
the person named in an applicant's letter. This I did during a
previous sitting. If, therefore, the medium herself obtained the
required information, there would, in these instances, have been
two weeks at least in which to do so, and one might have expected
improved results. Here is what we find :
Asked for at previous
sitting : Good to fair 2. Poor 2. Failure 7.
Not asked for : Good to fair 6. Poor 5. Faihu-e 2.
The cases asked for mentally at home were more successful than
those asked for verbally at a sitting, and the two weeks' interval
failed to ensure success in the majority of the cases which had that
advantage.
But was it an advantage ? I find no cause for thinking so ; and
that makes a further point against the medium's own exploring
faculty being the explanation of proxy messages.
If the medium herself could obtain information from a distant,
and, to me, an unknown applicant, much more might she be expected
to obtain information /rom me on those occasions when I was re-
ceiving messages from some deceased acquaintance of my own ;
for,
in such instances, my mind was stored with information which would
afford material for highly veridical remarks. Fishing in my memory
stores might be expected to produce an extraordinarily good catch
under these conditions if such fishing really took place. It is, how-
ever, a rare event for communications from my own acquaintances
to excel in veridical material that obtained in the best class of proxy
sitting for complete strangers.
From this I argue, with some confidence, that the medium's own
158 T}}e Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
faculty is not the factor to whicli we can attribute these proxy
results. If my richly stored memory yielded so little when I was
sitting in the medium's presence, is it likely that the minds of dis-
tant and unknown persons would yield as much ? And yet one or
two of the proxy cases have not only equalled, but have surpassed
in evidential richness the majority of communications received from
my own deceased acquaintances.
A review of the whole series prompts the following question. How
are we to explain the striking avoidance of all statements which
would have been inappropriate to the required communicator ? I
speak of the successful cases. Had the applicant been the source
from which the information was sent out, or obtained, could the
medium in some semi-omniscient fashion have discriminated be-
tween material which related to the deceased and other material
which did not relate to that particular person ? It is indeed striking,
to those who receive these messages, to find a selection of material
which can be recognised as having been within the knowledge of
the deceased, and an avoidance of everything that was not within
his knowledge.
Imagine a control experiment thus : Say that I visit the applicant
before the sitting and am shown over the house where the desired
Communicator had lived. I notice, infer and guess. Then I proceed
to write down some twelve to twenty items about the deceased which
I consider likely to be correct. Doubtless I should make some good
hits, but the question of interest is, would I have avoided grossly
inappropriate statements ? It is most significant that in the better
proxy messages there is absence of the inappropriate.
The proxy case " A " which heads the list was asked for mentally
by me while at home on the day before my first sitting with Mrs
Leonard. There was neither application nor expectation on the part
of the relatives ;
they did not even know that I was sitting with a
medium. These non-application cases might be extended were I to
include instances where recently deceased acquaintances of my own
spoke at my sittings without being requested or expected by me :
the initiative in such cases being entirely theirs.
In this connection it should be noted that several acquaintances
whom I expected and hoped for have never manifested in my sittings.
Clearly this looks like the action of personal choice on the part
of the deceased. I have had no compelhng power ; some came
unasked, some responded to invitation, while others made no
attempt.
Guided by the valuations shown in our chart we may look to see
whether any of the following variations in procedure led to increased
success.
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 159
The cases may be divided into groups :
1. In which I personally knew both applicant and Communicator ;
2. Where I had met the applicant before the sitting ;
3. Where both appUcant and Communicator were unknown to me.
Successes and failures are found under each of these conditions.
4. Cases transmitted by my father for the Commimicator ;
5. Those transmitted by my sister for the Communicator ;
6. Those transmitted by Commimicator for himself.
Here again there are best and worst results under each condition.
7. Cases first introduced by Feda without a word from me ;
8. Cases where I simply inquired whether any visitors were
present
;
9. Cases which I had asked for at some previous sitting.
Again we find best and worst results under each of these condi-
tions. In short, there is no indication that any of these variations
influenced results, as they should have done had the medium's
unaided activity acquired the information.
In nine instances the first sitting seemed to call for a continuance
of the attempt, either because it was specially good, or because, for
the sake of the applicant, I was particularly wishful to succeed. In
no case did the subsequent results differ in quality from the first
;
the evidence may have been less or more in quantity, but the Com-
municator did not surpass the earlier attempt. Case " C " extended
over eleven sittings and the standard of evidence was maintained
throughout. These facts are significant and, in my opinion, are
adequately accounted for by the hypothesis that each proxy case
had its own Communicator.
Does the sitter's link with applicants favour success ?
Do we find that when I had some knowledge of the apphcants
there was more success than at other times ?
At first glance it might seem that acquaintance favoured good
results ; for of the five best cases, I had, in two instances, been
introduced, while in two others I knew the relatives intimately.
On the other hand, consider the nine failures, " R " to " Z," in five
of which I had met the applicant.
The twelve cases, "A" to " M," are equally divided between
known and unknown. Apparently these numbers tell us nothing,
and we are more likely to discover the answer to our question by
studying individual cases. This we have already done when dis-
cussing the likehhood of telepathy from the applicant being an active
factor in success.
Does the series show improvement as time went on ?
IfiO The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
Cases. Class. Number of Sittings. Date of First Sitting.
A - I - 2 - Feb. 1917
F - - II . 2 - Feb. 1921
C I - 11 - March 1922
Q - - Ill 4 - Sept. 1922
H - - II - 1 - Oct. 1927
V - - IV - 1 - Jan. 1928
K - - Ill - 1 - Jan. 1928
E - - IV - 1 - May 1928
Z - IV 1 - Jan. 1929
B I 2 - Feb. 1929
M - - Ill 1 - March 1929
S - IV - 2 - March 1929
T - IV - 1 - April 1929
P - Ill 1 - April 1929
X - - IV 1 - Oct. 1929
G - - II 1 - Jan. 1930
J - Ill - 1 - March 1930
L - Ill 1 - April 1930
N - Ill 2 - August 1930
TT
U iV i - JJec. i9oO
Y - -
IV - 1 - Dec. 1930
W - - IV - 2 - March 1931
D - I 2 - April 1931
E - - II - 1 - July 1931
It will be seen that success and failure bear no relation to dates ;
there was neither steady improvement nor gradual deterioration.
Surveying the entire series one discovers nothing to suggest that
the medium herself obtained the veridial matter which was spoken
through her hps. Neither telepathy passing to her, nor mental ex-
ploration exerted by her, can be held to account for what happened.
No effective hnk is discoverable between medium and applicant.
Where I personally knew the applicants the results as a whole were
not superior, nor when I took with me to the sitting the letters of
appeal, nor when I asked at a previous sitting for messages. None
of these variations in approach showed any advantage in result, as
probably they would have done had either telepathy or the medium's
own faculty been the factor in play.
Those who valued these sittings were alert to the possibility of
clairvoyance by the medium, but instances where physical objects
or articles were described seem sufficiently offset by the numerous
allusions to facts about which clairvoyance could not have assisted
the mediimi.
To sceptical minds it may seem that in argiiing against other than
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 161
spiritistic explanation of the facts I have failed to prove a negative.
They may suggest that causes at present unknown may have been
in operation, for which I have not made allowance.
It would be helpful if such persons would outline some hypothesis
which, based on knowii facts, might compete successfully with that
which I have offered. It will obviously be futile to say that " tele-
pathy explains," or that " Cryptesthesia can discover anything
known to any human mind," or that " Metagnomic faculty is ade-
quate to all demands." Such assertions are valueless unless those
who make them can show in what manner they cover all the facts.
It is as easy as vain to suggest that the subconscious activity of a
medium can acquire apposite information from any particular person
among the world's population who happens to possess it. On what
foundation is such a theory based ? Has the feat been done apart
from spiritistic conditions ? Is it certain that the information
obtained was not brought by those who usually in such cases claim
to bring it ? Where is the force of suggestions resting " in air," as
against the explanations of the messages themselves, fortified as they
are by identity evidence in favour of the one person who, of all
others, would be most Ukely to know ?
Let the sceptic explain how it is that a proxy sitting can produce
more exact information than has ever been attributable to telepathy
between human minds, whether that telepathy was spontaneous or
experimental. Should he reply that mediumistic telepathy is sui
generis and its limits unknown, then one may inquire why it should
be couched in terms befitting the desired Communicator (about
whom the sitter knows riothing) ;
why it should be expressed as
from his particular point of view, and be harmonious with his earth
memories while avoiding everything opposed thereto 1 Let it also
be explained why this mediumistic telepathy, when emanating from
one Communicator, consistently succeeds in being veridical, while
from another it largely fails.
I do not propose to consider in detail hypotheses far fetched and
fanciful, such as :
1. Memory-traces left behind by the deceased.
2. Akashic Records, the modern synonym for " the mind of God."
[ 3. Some other super-mundane Being, angel or devil.
S
1 . The memory-trace hypothesis is ruled out by the fact that the
source of information usually gives inter alia facts relating to events
in his family circle subsequent to his decease. One of my proxy
communicators has been conspicuously persistent and successful in
thus showing his people that he keeps himself au courant with the
family happenings.
I 2. To attribute the evidential matter to Akashic Records, or to
162 The Rev. C. Drayton TJioinas [part
the Mind of Deity, is to abandon the inquiry in sheer despair or
intellectual laziness. For granting that there might be marvellous
thought-impressions remaining upon ethereal fields of sensitivity
surrounding earth, and without questioning the all-embracing
memory of the Omniscient Being, we have no reason for guessing
that the former, if interpreted, would take a personal form, or the
latter a deceptive and impersonating presentation. That this could
not be, one does not say, but that it is so, no one has the slightest
ground for suggesting.
3. As to unknown super-mundane impersonators, we are similarly
placed. Unless there be some definite reason for supposing such a
source or sources, it is unnecessary to debate the point. Not unless
we fail to discover some really probable origin for the information
given in these proxy sittings should we be justified in leaving the
problem unsolved ; and to attribute it to the unknown and the
unknowable is to relinquish the search.
The most probable source of the information will be the mind
which is known to have been in possession of it. There are two
such minds. One is the applicant, whom we have examined and
acquitted of being an accomplice. The professed Communicator is
the other.
Did the veridical information cmnefrom the desired Communicator ?
It is impossible within the scope of this paper to discuss separately
the evidence for identity given in the various sittings.
I have mentioned the rather unexpected and remarkable diversity
in results. No one can study the sittings without realising that they
were originated by intelligent mind. Why did that mind differ so
greatly between one sitting and another ? We have agreed to term
the originating mind " the Communicator " ; can we find any
common feature in the several successful Communicators ? Can we
find any feature in which those who failed were alike ?
A review of the whole series reveals wide difference in ability to
conceive and express clear-cut ideas. One Communicator can do
this, while another fails. It is exactly the difference which we
observe among people around us in daily life.
When studying my growing collection of proxy material it pre-
sently became apparent that neither children nor aged persons had
been particularly successful, but that the honours went to those who
had passed over in early maturity. So far as I could ascertain these
had all been well educated, intelligent and keen. Since most of the
failures occurred with middle-aged or elderly persons, I had drawn
the tentative conclusion that old age made success unlikely, perhaps
on account of that fixity of mind and habit which often accompany
increasing years.
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 163
Yet, if this were so, then au alert ijitellect, even if of advanced
age might be expected to communicate as well or better than youth.
This conclusion was later supported when a man of somewhat
advanced age proved a particularly effective Communicator. His
record is one of the best. It is case " B."
Throughout his earth Ufe this man had been highly intellectual
and he was, for many years, a leader of thought, and the editor of
an important journal. This Communicator put through his intimate
personal or pet name known only to his wife and himself as if he
realised that such an unusual, indeed perfectly unique name, would
be first-class evidence. Further, there has since been discovered
among his published writings a reference to psychical research in
which he stated that, in his opinion, the diificulty of proving per-
sonal identity could be overcome by the giving of an intimate per-
sonal name through a medium.
Consider another case, H," which is valued at 125,000 chances
to one ; in other words, were we to write off a series of items which
we judge might fit the circumstances of the unknown deceased, then
in 125,000 tries we might hope to find that just one of them was
as apposite as this proxy sitting !
In several of my subsequent sittings with Mrs Leonard this Com-
municator gave evidential messages for his parents, and when they
sat with Mi's Leonard at a later date he gave further and extensive
evidence of his identity.
Eighteen months after first speaking at my proxy sitting he played
the part of transmitter to Feda for a young public schoolboy, and
while doing so managed to introduce a small identity test for his
parents. He is called Rafe. I quote an extract from the sitting,
showing how the proxy portion was introduced and the part played
by Rafe therein.
C. D. T. No less than four people have written asking if I can
get a message and I have been wondering whether we could obtain
one for either of them this morning.
Feda. Rafe is here.
C. D. T. One of those whose mother hoped he would send a
message is a young man probably very much hke Rafe ; for the
letter that his mother wrote was so like the one I received about
Rafe two years ago. I wondered whether Rafe would know and
would help this boy.
Feda. Rafe had been here all the time. He says, " I know who
you mean, and I know what you mean."
C. D. T. But you don't know the boy, do you, Rafe I
Feda. Yes, he says, I do ; that is what I want to explain. He
says, I have only just got to know him.
As the sitting continued, a number of messages were given.
164 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
Suddenly Feda said, " Bird name. Rafe says the name of a bird
is very important in his family. He wants you to make a note of
this bird name."
Inquiries at Rafe's home elicited the fact that their old family
nurse, much beloved by all through many years, was invariably
called, by Rafe, either one of two names. It might be " Joey," a
name taken from the well-known Parrot Bird that had featured
largely in the comic paper he had loved as a child ; the other name
was " Birdy." Here I quote verbatim from a letter :
" It was
always one of these two names he called her, up to the last time
he ever saw her a few weeks before his death ; never anything else.
Nurse was a tremendously valued friend of our family. We love
her like one of ourselves, and Rafe always kissed her right up to
the end, as he used to do when a baby. On his wreath nurse wrote,
'
From Birdy.'
"
The foregoing is a contribution towards proof of Rafe's identity.
My next quotation from the same sitting shows Rafe as a mentality
distinct from the boy for whom he was speaking, and also from Feda,
who, as we shall notice, criticises him.
Rafe, still transmitting for the boy communicator, said, " His new
shoes hurt him, they had been uncomfortable, and I think he had not
been able to wear them. He has told me about his shoes and his
hat. What the deuce does his mother want to know about his hat
and shoes ?
" Feda here sedately remarked, with reference to the
day, " It is Good Friday, Rafe."
Rafe, ignoring her interru])tion, continued, " He kept on saying
—
'
Well, it is true, so you tell her.' But, you know, my mother would
have wanted to know more, whether I was happy or whether I
wanted to speak to her, and whether I wanted to send my love to
her." Here I remarked that it was important to establish identity,
and that the mother would require several homely touches before
she could be satisfied that it was really her boy who had been speak-
ing. Rafe replied, " I do agree with part of my brain, but it does
seem '
piffling '
to the other part of my brain."
This Communicator, Rafe, showed himself to be exceptionally
able in putting through his meaning to Feda ; also he gave evidence
of identity which was good and extensive.
But why should this case excel so many of the others ? If the
Communicator were the person he claims to be we have a satis-
factory explanation ; for he was an Oxford undergraduate, very
alive, and very mentally alert when cut off by sudden accident.
Consider another case which the valuers place in the highest class,
that of " D."
Subsequent to my proxy sitting with Mrs Leonard, the mother
visited Mrs Bnttain several times. I have records of those sittings,
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 165
the best one of which Mr Saltmarsh kindly valued for me. For that
Brittain sitting he gives a mark considerably less than that of the
proxy sitting. Thus, although the mother was present at the Brittain
sitting, it failed to achieve so high an evidential value as when I took
the proxy sitting for a total stranger, and upon the strength of a
single letter of appeal.
Further, in one of the Brittain sittings " D " remarked that they
would find in her little camera three films as yet imexposed when
she died. No one knew anything about it, but examination revealed
the fact that three films remained unexposed. That is useful addition
to the evidence given by the Commimicator to prove that she was
really the girl " D." Knowing nothing of that camera incident Mrs
Salter had marked the proxy sitting, " Good prima facie case for
identity of Communicator."
In order to make out a full case for the identity of these Com-
municators with the two deceased persons from whom their friends
hoped to hear, it would, of course, be necessary to present much
more detail. Sufiicient has perhaps been given to indicate that the
assumption of their identity fits the facts all round with a neatness,
smoothness and a cogency which is not to be foimd in any alter-
native hypothesis.
There is, as previously mentioned, a conspicuous absence, in all
the better cases, of any statement which would be inappropriate as
coming from the deceased, but there is also the very significant fact
that the messages and evidential items were uniformly in harmony
with the personality, characteristics and memories which had been
the Communicator's in earth-life. The one exception being that
there was revealed in some cases an intimate knowledge of what
had been happening in the old home since the Communicator's death.
For illustration of this feature I take the following incident from
the Eafe (Case " H ") records.
Four months after my " H " proxy sitting, conversation with my
usual communicators was interrupted by Feda's remark that Rafe
was again present. Several messages were then given by him with
the obvious intention of letting his parents know through me that
he was able to keep in touch with them. Among these came the
following :
" Ask my mother if she has been thinking of a pillow ?
I got her thought about a pillow as if it were in some way connected
with me."
In replying to my letter the mother wrote, " When he passed I
took the pillow he had slept on till the day he left and have since
slept on it myself. When we left home some weeks ago I carefully
placed it in his Oxford trunk so that no one else should use it. Since
returning I have often thought of taking it out, but postponed doing
BOj as opening his trunk and seeing aU his belongings would break
166 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
me down. However, at the beginning of last week I felt I would
be brave and take it into use again. I did so and have been sleeping
on it since."
The date of this reference to the pillow was given some six days
after the mother had taken it into use again ; it was my first sitting
after the event. That it was more than chance coincidence is shown
by the facts, (1) that although this was my 209th sitting with Mrs
Leonard it was the first time that a pillow had been mentioned ;
(2) this reference to a pillow was accompanied by three other de-
scriptions, each perfectly correct, of things recently attracting the
notice of his parents. Needless to say I was entirely ignorant of
these incidents.
Should it be argued that the very fact of an inclusion of present-
day doings in the household of the applicant proves that the infor-
mation coiild not have come from the ostensible Communicator, I
am prepared to dispute such a conclusion. For in the long years
during which I have been conversing with my father and with my
sister, through Mrs Leonard's mediumship, they have given me
scores of ingeniously devised proofs that they are able to ascertain
such information. Indeed they have devised an ingenious method
by which they inform me of things not within my knowledge, or
that of anyone else, which yet prove to be accurate. I refer especially
to the so-called newspaper test experiments.
Here, then, is my answer to the question. Why so much diversity
in these proxy results ? It is the natural outcome of their being
given by different Communicators.
In searching for the cause of this diversity in result it has been
necessary to consider the ^possibility of its being accoimted for by
differences in the applicants, or variations of condition between one
sitting and another. In regard to the applicants I recognised the
possibility that some might be lax and others severe in estimating
the relevancy of the messages, and so far as possible I guarded
against this by obtaining detailed reasons for the acceptance of any
items as correct. This material has been available to those who
assisted me in comparing and valuing the records.
As to variation in the condition of my sittings from time to time,
it may of course be said, strictly speaking, that no one remains
exactly the same physically and mentally from day to day, and that
slight changes in Mrs Leonard or myself may have affected some
sittings favourably and others adversely. Yet the general level of
excellence in my sittings has rarely varied, and during the period
over which proxy messages extend there has been no noticeable
change. Furthermore, it is significant that where a Communicator
failed at first attempt there has never been a marked success when
a second attempt was made. While, on the other hand, four Com-
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 167
municators whose first messages receive a high mark from the
examiners of these records, gave excellent evidence on subsequent
occasions.
The wide contrasts observed in the evidential value of these proxy
messages would be accoimted for by supposing that the persons who
originated them were dissimilar in mental endowments and training,
some being clear thinkers and adaptable, while others were not. To
those who are prepared to admit the possibility of human survival
and communication, I ask. Is it not natural that some should have
greater aptitude than others for the difficult and delicate operation
of transmitting their thoughts through an intermediary, and of
making suitable selection of evidential matter ? We know how
widely aptitude for selection and expression of ideas is found to
vary in mankind. Some can select with finer judgment and can
express themselves with greater precision ;
this being so on earth,
one is not surprised to find indications of it in communications from
the discarnate. And further, few of us can have failed to notice
how widely people differ in their regard for relatives. Not all feel
the same urge to set at rest the minds of friends who may be anxious
about their welfare or desirous of hearing from them. Such differ-
ences may quite naturally persist in the life after death, some being
very desirous of commmiicating, others much less so.
In this diversity of mental ability I find a cause for the wide
difference shown in my series of proxy sittings, a difference ranging
from comjilete failure to clear-cut success. Everything looks as if
actual Communicators had been present, and that they varied in
ability to make successful use of the opportunity.
Psychic Suitability.
It would appear that the Communicator's mental ability during
life is not sufficient by itself to ensure clarity and accuracy in com-
municating : for in the list of failures, it is noticeable that the three
lowest of all, viz. '
X," " Y " and " Z," ought to have been suc-
cessful had the possession of intelligence been the one necessity.
" X " was elderly, but he was a King's Counsel. " Y " was an alert
pubhc schoolboy, and " Z " a conspicuously intelligent lady.
Each of these succeeded in putting through a few indications of
identity, but their average of success was spoilt by the amount of
unrecognised material. I believe that in each of these cases I was
in touch with the person desired : their failures I cannot explain
save by supposing that their messages were blurred in transmission.
Experience has gradually led me to the opinion that, just as all
sitters do not suit all mediums, so all Communicators do not suit
all Controls. There may well be some subtle disharmony of dis-
position which hinders psychic intercourse. Do we not sometimes,
168 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [PAET
when conversing with oxir fellows in daily life, experience a sense of
distance which resists all our efforts to overcome it ?
The superiority of some Communicators over others is remarked
on by Mrs Sidgwick when referring to one of Mrs Leonard's sittings
(see Proc. S.P.R. (1921), xxxi. " An Examination of Book Tests ") :
" There seems, so far as we can judge from eight sittings, to have
been a proportion of success considerably above the average in the
book-tests received by her "
(p. 265).
And in Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxii, 612-3, the Editor comments
upon the same subject :
" Some Communicators appear to have a
much greater success in carrying out book-tests than others. ... If
chance were the only factor in the Leonard results, there would be
no reason why one Communicator should have more success than
another. . . . Tests given in association with one supposed Com-
municator show a much higher percentage of success than those
given in association with another."
It is certainly striking to find in proxy sittings a repetition of this sig-
nificant difference in result ;
proxy messages, like book-tests, are more
evidentially successful with some Communicators than with others.
On page 265 of the above paper Mrs Sidgwick remarks :
" The
fact . . . that each sitter has his or her special Communicator and
that for book-test purposes they form an inseparable pair prevents
our being able to judge whether a higher average of success ... is
due to qualities in the Communicator, or the sitter, or the com-
bination of the two."
In the proxy sittings now under consideration this difficulty is
removed ; for in every instance the sitter was the same. I think
it may, therefore, be assumed, with some confidence, that the high
average of success in several of my cases results from their originat-
ing with Communicators who were better able than others to over-
come the difficulties incident to the task.
These difficulties were twofold, first the selection of evidential
material and secondly its transmission. My constant Communi-
cators, who are my father and sister, would appear to give a certain
amount of assistance in the transmission ;
sometimes, indeed, one
or other of them gives the messages to Eeda, despite the fact that
the desired Communicator is said to be present. They explain that
in such cases they considered that there was much more hkelihood
of the messages being accurately transmitted if given by them than
if the novice should attempt it. Meanwhile the presence of the latter
gives them some assistance in recollecting the agreed-upon messages
and evidence. That such an aid might be useful is not difficult to
beheve ; since the amount of detail pxxt through is frequently more
than one would cheerfully volunteer to remember accurately without
some sort of assistance.
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 169
It sometimes happened that a Communicator who, while not wholly
failing, was far from achieving a satisfactory result, yet managed to
put through one or two items of evideiice which rather redeemed
the performance. It was the kind of thing which suggested that
the hoped-for Communicator may very well have been present, even
in those sittings which failed completely, and perhaps doing his best
under difficulties which he could not surmount.
Concerning the difficulties of Communication.
Why do we find vagueness and confusion alternate, in some Com-
municators, with excellent evidence ? Why do we find the omission
of what one would have expected, and occasionally one glaring in-
accuracy in the midst of a long and otherwise accurate description ?
These are questions which apply to mediumistic communications in
general, but are especially pertinent to our discussion of proxy cases
in which we can rule out at least two of the suggested explanations.
We can, I think, safely take for granted that (1) in proxy sittings
there is no telepathy from the sitter, and (2) no other means (psycho-
metric, clairvoyant, community of sensation, etc.) whereby the in-
formation is provided by the sitter. Thus we need not discuss the
hypothesis that vagueness and omissions are to be attributed to a
medium's imperfect perception of what is in the sitter's memory or
conscious thought.
The uniform testimony of my Communicators is that they are not
at their best when entering the conditions essential to the medium-
istic transmission of their thought. Those who are capable of nice
distinctions aver that the difficulty relates to their surroundings
and not essentially to themselves. Their favourite illustration is
that of the diver : when under water in his diving suit the man is
limited by his conditions, although remaining perfectly himself. All
he achieves must be done while he is fettered by the very apparatus
which makes his stay in the waters possible. He handles articles
but clumsily through his thick fabric covering ; he walks heavily
with weighted soles, his vision obscured by helmet and the dim
underwater gloom. The illustration may be still more apposite if
we picture the latest deep-water diving apparatus.
The Italian salvage ship, Artiglio, in 1932 recovered treasure from
the bullion room of the sunken P. and 0. liner Egypt, which lay
130 yards down on the floor of the Bay of Biscay. Divers could
work only in favourable weather. They were lowered in heavy steel
shells or cases provided with windows 12 inches thick to withstand
the immense pressure of the deep water. They could do little more
than peer into the gloom and telephone directions to their comrades
for moving them up and down, back or forward; for the placing of
explosive charges, and, later, of the grabs by which the treasure
170 The Rev. C. Drayton Tliomas [part
was lifted. Their efforts to reach a favourable position from which
to enter the wreck, or to place explosive charges upon it, were often
frustrated for hours at a time by the force of the ever shifting
currents.
With this illustration in mind we may note what was said by
Rafe (Case " H "), who gives the impression of being an acute
observer.
Rafe. If sitters had better memories they could help us a great
deal. To begin with they might often help us to sift out, in these
rather difficult conditions, many things that, without meaning to,
we make rather a muddle of. It would help us, in a way I find it
rather difficult to exjDlain, if people would say that we spoke of
so-and-so last time, but that this and that were not quite right.
We might then sort out our impression in this condition.
C. D. T. You find the conditions of a sitting difficult ?
Rafe. I find it difficult sometimes to know if I am giving the
details correctly. I think I have something to say, but while I am
getting my facts ready, I often forget which I have already given.
I am not quite sure, and I may have a little difficulty in getting it
again. But if someone would remind me and tell me something
about it which would not spoil the evidence in any way, that would
be of very great assistance.
C. D. T. Now, as a medical student with some knowledge of
psychology, how do you explain this bewilderment that comes over
people when they communicate ? I take it that you do not feel it
in yom" own sphere. What is the cause of it ?
Rafe. I do not think it is anything in themselves. I think it is
that they are, what you might call, at sea. It is a physical con-
dition, as I understand it. You might put it in this way : a man
on a platform—I am speaking of the earth now—feels and speaks
all right. The same man with the same qualities goes up in a balloon,
or on the top of a mountain, or in an aeroplane, to a certain altitude
where the conditions of the atmosphere, which are physical con-
ditions, afl^ect him mentally. They so affect him that probably he
will have difficulty in thinking ; I have heard of such cases where
people could not think. Then again, what is an anaesthetic ?
Something that interferes with your thinking apparatus. It is a
physical thing again. Yet, what does it do to a man ? The same
man who was previously quite clear headed is now prevented from
thinking clearly. There is something which is, in a way, analogous
in the physical condition or atmosphere of the sitting which affects
our consciouness. Your Father terms it " the power."
C. D. T. Do you never get any such feeling in your own sphere ?
Rafe. Oh dear, no.
That some Communicators could not overcome the obstacles and
130] ^-1 Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 171
so avail themselves of the opportunity afforded by the proxy sitting
was, I think, neatly shown when I took applicants to sit with Mrs
Leonard. I did this with the three cases, " V," " Q " and " L,"
because these Communicators had more or less failed, and I still
hoped we might achieve success. I was also wishful to discover
whether the Communicator would be able to do better when the
applicant was present.
In considering the results I was led to the conclusion that the
presence of the applicant at the sitting made but slight difference
to the quality of communication received. The material was usually
more, but not better ! My impression was that, in each case, the
Communicator felt additional interest in the occasion, but was
unable to make his achievement equal his intention.
Where the failures were complete I may have been unsuccessful
in my attempt to attract the attention of the required persons,
and if, in such a case, I asked my father or my^sister to help, they
may have failed to find the right person.
It must be remembered that I had but httle clue to give ; a mere
name is not much guide when seeking a person in a far-stretching
land.
There is, in the opinion of my Communicators, a real possibility
of their bringing the wrong person. When introducing case " D,"
one of the best, doubt was expressed as-to whether they had brought
the one for whom I hoped.
During my years of study with Mrs Leonard, I have given close
attention to everything calculated to throw light upon the pro-
cesses which lead up to the spoken message. Always the sitting
proceeds exactly as if Feda, the Control, were receiving information
from another person and doing her best under difficulties to catch
the meaning clearly and then pass it on through the medium's vocal
organism.
She often stops to say, " A\Tiat ? I have not got that !
" or she
will say, " Wait, I lost something then, come a little nearer." At
times she seems to be catching the speaker's actual words, at other
times it is as though she caught only an idea, but an idea which is
progressively clarified point by point till all is plain.
When she cannot catch words, or ideas, from the Communicator,
she tells me that she is " getting things from him "'
; but this pro-
cess of " sensing " is as a rule much less accurate.
So far as I am aware this explanation of the modus operandi, like
that of the reahty of the Comnuuiicator, fits the facts in every way.
It will be noticed that whether Feda received the messages from
the desired Commimicator direct, or from my father or sister speak-
ing for that Communicator, the result was unaffected. Each m.ethod
had its failures and each had its successes. Perhaps the record
K
172 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
points to greater likelihood of success when the Communicator does
not personally undertake the difficult task of giving his messages
direct to Feda ; for it will be observed that the best cases were
given, in whole or part, through my father or my sister. What they
have to say about the advantages of this arrangement may be read
in extracts from their conversation ; the following are quotations
or, in some cases, summaries of their remarks. Some of these were
volunteered in the course of the sittings, others were given in reply
to questions. These explanations seem to me logical, consistent,
and in no way contrary to any real psychological knowledge we
possess.
How do my Communicators account for the presence at the
sittviig of the 'person from whom I desire to hear ?
Two extracts from the records will supply the answer. I take
them from cases previously mentioned, Rafe the Oxford student
and Miss M .
Rafe {Case " H "). Three hours before attending the sitting I had,
in my study, re-read the letter of appeal and had mentally called
the boy, asking him to notice his mother's wish to hear from him,
and saying that I would give him the opportunity that afternoon.
I asked him to notice if my father and sister were present with me
in my study, and, if he saw them, to ask them how to proceed.
Very soon after the sitting commenced, Feda suddenly said,
" Have you been asked to help a boy ? There is one here, he was
in a rush to come." Having given a number of evidential points,
the Commimicator said (while transmitting through Feda, the Con-
trol), " Please give them my love and say that I am all right and
quite happy now, and that I knew they were going to write to you.
I followed it up and got your thought and followed you here. I
could not make her hear me in that—what ? (exclaimed Feda) It
was no use going there. He says, she was washing her hands in a
bathroom when you came. But (interjects Feda) she would not
know ! He could not make her understand, so came on into this
room with you."
Towards the close of the sitting I inquired whether the Communi-
cator had noticed my call in the study, or if he had come to the
sitting on his own initiative ? Feda replied, " Your father and
sister were in your room when he went there, and they brought
him here with them. Your sister says. We told him to get close to
the medium, and that is why he went to her on arrival when she
was in the bathroom."
Later still in the sitting, while my father was controUing person-
ally, I asked how he had come in touch with this youth. He rephed
130] A Consideratio7i of a Series of Proxy Sittings 173
that it was in my study, and added, " We did not know why he
was there, but gathered that later." I asked if he had been able
to see the youth both in the study and during the sitting. My
father replied that he had been able to see him in the study more
easily than during the sitting.
Miss M {Case " D "). The case " D " is the only one placed
in the best class which I had mentioned at a previous sitting. What
I had then said was as follows :
C. D. T. Now here is another case. A lady writes about her
daughter, who was killed in a motor accident. Two children rushed
out and caused the accident which resulted in her death. The
mother writes that it would help a great deal if she could get a
message from her daughter. Shall I attract her to the study ?
Feda. He thinks that would be a very good thing to do. He will
have a look round. He will try what he can do.
I now add extracts from the sitting of two weeks later.
Feda. Mr John [i.e. my father) says he wonders if he has found
the right girl, he calls her a girl, Feda calls her a young woman.
He has forgotten if you mentioned anything, but this girl is about
19 or 18.
C. D. T. I had her age as 18|. How did you find her ?
Feda. He says in the study.
C. D. T. Good, that is where I tried to attract her attention.
Feda. He says, she felt the study. And your thoughts must have
acted like a paper trail—Etta says that—like a paper trail.
C. D. T. Or like a telephone call ?
Feda. Yes, but something more than that because, Etta says, a
telephone call does not show you the way. You do something more
than that with your thought when you direct it from your side to ours.
C. D. T. They can be attracted by the thought, and then they
can follow the thought to its source. Is that the statement ?
Feda. Yes, Mr John says, if you could throw a very long line to
us, and we catch hold of the end and follow it hand over hand.
Your thought is like a line.
C. D. T. What I can't understand is, how my thought reached
the girl.
» Feda. He says, it is something more than thought, as you under-
stand thought. You say to yourself, " I miderstand so little about
this girl, I know so little of her. How can I think of her strongly
enought to attract her to me in my house of which she knows
nothing ?
" Well, there is something more in it than that. It is
your intention, the natiu"e of your thought, more than the actual
defined form in which you put your thought. I wish I could find
a word to describe this something at the back of thought—the
thought at the back of thought. I think you will guess what I mean.
174 The Bev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
(Feda interjects, " I don't think anybody could, Mr John.") He
says, Well, you know what you are trying for, you know you are
trying to help a girl to get in touch with her mother. The mother's
thought is also definitely centred on the girl. She may have even
told her in thought that she wants a message through you. That
helps, but apart from the mother doing so, your intention is felt.
You need not define the thought, the inner thought. The thought
that matters is there, and is picked up.
C. D. T. I wonder if you could clear up this ? My thought goes
out, the girl catches it, but where does my thought go 1 To her only,
or does it go out in all directions like the shout of a voice, or a radio
message, or the light of the s\m, so that she would have caught it
wherever she might be 1
Feda. He says, Not quite so easy to catch it wherever she hap-
pened to be, but in this case I think she did catch it where she
happened to be, and found her way to the study. But if she hap-
pened to be in the neighbourhood of the study it would make it
easier.
C. D. T. Well, then, the thought goes out like radio and it hap-
pens to attract her attention, and she is able to feel from what
direction it comes.
Feda. Yes, unless other sounds (thoughts ?) are crossing. There
is a difficulty we are very much up against. Now, he says, I did
not know much about this radio when I was here, but it is analogous
to the thought-commimication between your world and ours ; and
undoubtedly, just as you get, I know from observation, a cross inter-
ference, muddles, interminglings of a perplexing kind, in that, so can
you in this communication by thought from your world and ours.
We who make a definite study of this communication are less
likely to be confused because by practice we become experts in
transmitting and receiving. You may become a good transmitter,
as we are good receivers ; we respond quickly, and easily distinguish
your call from the others. Of course, when you try to get in touch
by thought with a new person, a new receiver, then it nearly all
depends on you, but even so, it depends partly on the nature, tem-
perament, and natural ability, the receptive and intuitive qualities,
of the new receiver. If this girl had happened to be a dense, unre-
sponsive, unsympathetic, stupid person, you would not have got the
response you have.
C. D. T. That is very interesting.
Feda. And, he says, here again we come into our old subject, my
favourite one, the importance of developing the soul- qualities before
you arrive.
(Later in the sitting and while messages were being transmitted) :
Feda. The girl is here, but Mr John is giving it.
130] A Considerafion of a Series of Proxy Sittings 175
C. D. T. He is getting it from her as he gives it ?
Feda. Yes, he says, he was afraid of trusting to his memory re-
garding almost a stranger.
This, as I have said, was one of the two successful cases in which
I had asked my father and my sister at the previous sitting to assist
in bringing the desired Communicator. The resiilts demonstrate
that they succeeded in the quest.
The following paragraphs contain remarks made by my father and
sister about these proxy commimications. For economy in space
I have frequently abbreviated.
My sister Etta once remarked, " Sometimes when you ask us to
try and get in touch with so-and-so, we have to say that we do not
know if we can, we will do our best, but are not sure of success."
Sept. 1929. Most of those whom we bring have been to some
extent coached beforehand. We ad\'ise them to get their material
in order, points first, second, third, etc. Now, if they are asked a
question in the midst of their communication it will quite possibly
lead to confusion, a mixture of two or three separate things ;
so that
it is wisei to take what is said and leave questions until afterwards.
April 1930 {Case "i ").
Feda. They have been doing their best to obtain information
from the girl for whom you ask, and they have also brought her
this morning. She has talked to us about her evidence, and Etta
will now give it, endeavouring to remember what she has been told.
Etta says, I will supplement my memory with what the girl may
tell me here and now, but if she tells me anything that disagrees
with what she told me previously, I shall have to inform her that,
in this confusing condition of the sitting, she is not recollecting
clearly.
You see I am able to remember somewhat better than a newcomer
can be expected to do.
July 1931 {Case " E" a young boy).
Feda. Etta is now giving what she has been told by this boy, and
further, she adds some things which she has sensed from him.
C. D. T. You mean that the boy has told part and Etta has felt
the rest 1 Is that a safe way of obtaining it ?
Feda. It is the only one with children because they can't express
themselves and tell you everything completely. Etta says she would
hesitate to adopt this method with an adult, but ^vith a child she
finds it best to get some information from them and then add things
she had observed and obtained herself.
July 1931. My Communicators explained that in these proxy
sittings they sometimes deemed it best that they should themselves
transmit information obtained from the desired Communicator
although the latter might be actually present in the sitting.
176 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
On some occasions the Commnnicator was not present at the
sitting, while at others he was not only present but himself giving
his thoughts to Feda. I therefore inquired why different methods
were adopted. The following was the reply :
Father. Sometimes we find the person would not be a good Com-
municator. Some are much better at the task than are others, and
if a person is a poor communicator his presence at the sitting would
be more hindrance than help. In such cases we conclude to give
what we can in his absence.
We may, of course, be mistaken and underestiniate a person's
capabilities ; that is quite possible because we are dealing with
people about whom we know little or nothing, and we have to judge
as you would judge the caj)abilities of a person who applied to you
for a post of some kind.
There have been occasions when a Communicator, whom we had
concluded would do well, has found the conditions of the sitting too
baffling for him. You must remember that in the majority of these
cases it is a first-time experience for the Communicator ; and not
only have they never made the attempt before, but during their
earth life they were unacquainted with this subject. Even when
they have the making of a good Commimicator, inexperience in the
task causes many gaps in their communication ; as you will have
noticed in such cases, we have sometimes helped them through and
added to their statements.
In view of the many difficulties which arise in bringing novices,
it may be said that on the whole the most reliable method would be
for us to obtain the material and ourselves give it to Feda. This
would usually result in a more faithful reproduction of what the
person wished to give than if he were trying to give it himself ; but
there is one thing which we could not give so well, and that is the
idea of his temperament and character. Feda usually obtains this
very faithfully when a Communicator is transm.itting to her. There
is a further disadvantage when we transmit on behalf of the Com-
municator. It is that it prevents the possibility of his warming to
the task as he proceeds. When a Communicator can do this the
probability is that he finds several things occurring to him cpite
natm-ally, good, evidential points that easily slip from him to
Feda. I think it is only the good Communicators who warm to the
task ; those of inferior capacity remain cold and restrained. It is a
condition very much like that of nervousness in public speaking."
At this point my father referred to one of the younger proxy
Communicators, the medical student who has been uniformly suc-
cessful, and remarked of him, " he was vital and warm."
Continuing, my father added, " Sometimes you have had an older
person who has lived many years on earth with self-contained and
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 177
restrained habits of thinking and acting. That person is not so
Ukely to warm up, especially in the early stage of communicating.
He will be cautious and self-restrained and rather over anxious ;
because these are the habits to which he has accustomed himself.
The conditions around the medium are rarely stationary. There
is something always fluctuating, ebbing and flowing, in these sittings.
When I have been speaking for some time Etta may suddenly per-
ceive that the condition of the power is one that she can use much
better than I, and if she notices that I am losing my hold on the
hne, so to speak, she will seize it.
C. D. T. I have noticed that in proxy sittings Etta has acted as
interpreter for several while you have rarely acted that part.
Father. There is a good reason for that. I think I might have
acted as interpreter, but Etta was specially gifted for the role. Not
only had she studied this subject before passing over, but had been
naturally a good intermediary between people when on earth. She
had the gift of bringing people out of themselves, of talking easily,
and yet was very sensitive. In many ways she was more adapted
for this work than I had ever been. I know that I could act as
interpreter in these proxy sittings, but I think Etta would naturally
do it better.
I had asked my father how he explained the failure of some of
my proxy attempts.
Father. In view of my present knowledge I should suggest several
possible explanations. Firstly, we may have contacted the wrong
person ;
for, as you know, there are usually several people waiting
to send messages through you. There may be points of similarity
between two of them, and we do not receive much clue as to the
one who is required. We often have to do a considerable amount of
probing before we are satisfied that we are in touch with the right
person, and we have sometimes proceeded a considerable way before
discovering that we have been on the wrong track.
Still, I think the more we can obtain upon the least clue you give
us, the more satisfactory it will be.
Now the second reason for failure is the unquestionable difficulty
in transmitting to you the information we receive. It might be as
well to mention in this connection that when we meet the right
person and talk to him in your study, we may possibly catch some
ideas coming from the minds of others around you there, I mean
other would-be Communicators. In our conversation with the one,
while in your vicinity, we may involuntarily receive thought that
do not belong to him, and so father them upon the wrong person.
I think this is quite possible, although I hope it is unlikely. It
would be entirely unlikely to happen were we speaking with the
Communicator on our own plane, but you must always remember
178 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
that when we are in the earth condition, which is not onr own, no
matter how accustomed we may have grown to it, we are liable to
certain errors we could never make in our own sphere.
C. D. T. Might we assume provisionally that the successful proxy
cases were those in which you met the Communicator on your own
plane and that the failures were those in which you met him only
in the earth conditions ?
Father. I do not think you can adopt that as a certain rule,
although there is something to be said for it broadly and generally.
Feda. Etta says, the lady you are asking for is here, but I am
speaking for her, it is best for me to hold the line.
C. D. T. I remarked to my father that in stiidying the proxy
sittings I found that the Communicators who succeeded seemed to
succeed uniformly ; that if they had a second opportunity they were
again successful, while those who failed, failed again if given a second
opportunity.
Father. That is interesting and helpful to me, and it agrees with
what I have always thought, namely, that some Communicators are
more fitted for the work than are others. Some people would not
acquire facility for the task until they had been over here a con-
siderable time, or until they had had much practice.
Etta. I am sure that much is explained by a difference of tem-
perament or habit of thought.
C. D. T. That would be a satisfactory conclusion in the case of
those who came and spoke direct to Feda, but it is not easy to
harmonise with the failure of several cases where you first obtained
the information and then yourself transmitted it to Feda.
Etta. I have often been in touch with a would-be Communicator
before the sitting and have obtained information from him, but you
will recollect what we have often said about the difficulty in re-
membering even our own affairs in the conditions of the sitting. It
is more difficult to remember someone else's, much more difficult
;
so I often ask Communicators to come with me, if possible, in order
to reinforce my memory of what they have told me. If they can
do that and do it well, then I am on fairly safe ground, but if they
cannot, I am on very unsafe ground indeed.
I think we have had a considerable amount of success, but it has
been a difficult thing to do. It is probably one of the most difficult
branches of this work.
C. T). T. I understand you to say that, if you are giving it on
behalf of the Communicator and the latter is present in the room,
then his presence reinforces your memory. Am I to understand that
the Communicator is listening to what you say and will correct you
should you make a inistake ?
Etta. He may be listening, but even his hstening powers are some-
130] A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings 179
what blurred while in this condition. If you can imagine the sitting
taking place on our own plane then he could easily say, " Stop, that
is not correct.
'
' When father and I are speaking through the medium
here, even we cannot always check each other.
In Leonard WooUey's fascinating book, Digging up the Past, he
says :
" The prime duty of the field archaeologist is to collect and
set in order material with not all of which he can himself deal at
first hand. In no case will the last word be with him ; and just
because that is so his publication of the material must be minutely
detailed, so that from it others may draw not only corroboration
of his views but fresh conclusions and more light. Should he not
then stop at this ? It might be urged that the man who is admirably
equipped to observe and record does not necessarily possess the
powers of synthesis and interpretation, the creative spirit and the
literary gift which will make of him a historian. But no record can
ever be exhaustive. As his work in the field goes on, the excavator
is constantly subject to impressions too subjective and too intangible
to be communicated, and out of these, by no exact logical process,
there arise theories which he can state, can perhaps support, but
cannot prove ; their truth will depend ultimately on his own calibre,
but, in any case, they have their value as summing up experiences
which no student of his objects and his notes can ever share. Granted
that the excavator is adequate to his task, the conclusions which
he draws from his own work ought to carry weight, and he is bound
to put them forward ; if they are palpably wrong them his observa-
tions also may justly be held suspect."
It is in this spirit that I here record my impressions. The appeal
from earth brought response from those who had left earth. They
did what they could to prove their identity. Several succeeded and
so brought to their sorrowing relatives much comfort. Others were
less successful. Such variations in ability to communicate success-
fully, though medium and sitter were the same for all, I attribute
chiefly to wide differences in the mental ability of the several Com-
municators. Besides which, there were probably differences of other
kinds, in some cases, perhaps, a pre-occupation in post-mortem
activity ; for it may be doubted whether all would feel an equally
urgent wish to speak with those left behind.
I attribute the veridical information to the actual persons from
whom their friends desired to hear ; for although I kept an open
mind for the possibility of intrusion from other sources, I found no
evidence for anything of the kind.
These conclusions are based on my experiences with Mrs Leonard ;
one cannot say positively how far they may, or may not, apply to
other mediums and to other methods of experiment.
180 The Rev. G. Drayton Thomas [part
APPENDIX.
Case "A." Ralph Gould.
This is a case where the relatives of the deceased were not expect-
ing messages from him, and were unaware that I was sitting with
mediums. i
. -w''
I had been twice to the Gould's house, but that was some eight
years before this sitting. I knew the three sons slightly, but had not
seen Ralph, who is the subject of this incident, for some years.
Ralph went to the war. Just after Christmas, 1916, it was
reported that he had been killed. A short account appeared in the
Methodist Recorder which ran thus :
" Our church at Beckenham has suffered a heavy loss in Second
Lieut. Ralph B. Gould, who died in Mesopotamia of wounds received
in action, on Dec. 20th. He was the eldest son of Mr and Mrs
Gould, Croydon Road. In the summer of 1915 Mr Gould received
a commission, and was gazetted to the South Wales Borderers.
In September of that year he was drafted to GalUpoli, and was present
at the evacuations of Suvla Bay and Helles Point, at the latter
place being wounded. After a short period in Egypt he was sent to
Mesopotamia, and took part in the actions before Kut in the attempt
to relieve General Townshend. Mr Gould was loved by all who knew
him. Previous to joining the Army he was a member of the choir
and a most valuable worker in the Svmday School, being assistant
secretary and then secretary for several years."
My first sitting with Mrs Leonard, to whom I was a perfect stranger,
was on 3 February 1917.
Before going to this sitting I had earnestly thought of two or three
people whom I hoped might take the opportunity of speaking with
me there. One of these was Ralph Gould ; I was exceedingly sorry
for his parents and felt that it might comfort them if I were able to
prove that Ralph had spoken 'ftith me.
Early in the sitting Feda said :
" A young man wants to speak. He is not very, very tall, yet
above average height ; well built, not stout, fine figure, rounded
cheeks somewhat narrowing towards chin ;
good character, medium
mouth, nose slightly bridged otherwise straight ;
eyes medium
brown, eyebrows dark brown ;
strong good forehead ; short hair
that sticks up a bit in centre of front, brushed away from front and
cut close at sides."
All perfectly accm-ate with the possible exception of nose and eyes.
His parents think there was no bridge, although they themselves
both show it. As for the eyes they were not sure of the exact
colour.
130] Appendix. Case "A." Ralph Gould 181
" He passed over suddenly. Not much pain. There was a quiek
dizzmess and choJving feeling, not actual pain. He was full of lite
to the last day, cheerful and full of life."
As the War Office cable, received on Christmas Day, merely said
" Died from wounds, bullet wounds in head," it had been assumed
that Ralph died in hospital. Not till the morning of the day on
which I took this sitting did his parents receive the letter from his
Officer stating that Ralph had died in action. On the evening of
the same day came a letter from the Chaplain saying, " Throughout
the march, which commenced at 3 a.m., we were together and indeed
we used my mount to carry our gear as we walked together. When
firing commenced we were under some sort of cover and out of danger
except for stray bullets, one of which struck him in the neck, and
before I could catch him up (I had remained behind to water my
horse), he was dead."
Feda continued :
" There were two sides to his mentaUty, the serious and the jolly."
This was very true, much more true of Ralph than of the majority
of young men.
" There was a rushing noise in his ears before he, what you say
'
died '
; the last he knew was that he felt dizzy and choky, but he
was quickly unconscious."
The family doctor stated that the symptoms here described would
be just what one would expect to follow a shot in neck or head.
" At the time he had been standing on something uneven, it seems
to Feda like scrambling up something."
This is perhaps the most interestingly evidential statement of all
;
for it was unknown to anyone in England, and many months elapsed
before its verification was possible. The Chaplain did not mention
it in his letters to the family. After the War I interviewed him.
He said that their company had been progressing along the bed of a
stream and " Gould was a bit up one side the bank when he was
struck by a stray bullet."
" He walks round you and puts his hand on yotu- shoulder. Per-
haps he means that he used to do that."
His mother says that he always did so when wishing her good-bye.
The others recollect this habit of his.
" He says '
R '
and '
E,' '
C No it is '
G,' and close to that '
G '
there is '
R '
and '
E.'
"
Feda, as I have often observed in later years, easily mistakes
certain letters. This '
E '
is wrong ;
Ralph's initials were R. B. G.
" He could not believe that he had passed over when he woke,
thought he was in hospital. (In whispers) Whd,t do you say ?
What ? TeU me carefully."
" At first he thought that he had been huxt, that he had been
182 The Rev. G. Drayton Thomas [part
wounded, and he wondered whether others knew what had happened.
He saw people walking round him and touching , him and making
passes over him. He felt some difference in the air, something
different too in his surroimdings. He asked whether he would be
there long l And they said, '
You are all right now.' They said,
'
Sit up,' and I felt well, but hazy and unable to remember about
things as I ought to do and as I wanted to do. They said, '
You
have passed and are in the spirit world.' I could scarcely believe it
at first. I had expected something different, not so solid, or so
familiar. I was disappointed at first, hxxi am not disappointed now.
It is all so interesting."
" He thinks he told you this before through someone else. He
thinks through a woman, middle aged and rather dark ; that is his
impression. He could not get much through. He gave some
name, but he felt muddled and could not do it ; said that he was
happy and was getting on well."
" He has seen you with a man who is elderly, spare in build, grey
moustache, who seemed a little nervous and was psychic. A pale
man, drawn and even haggard. This man worried him because of a
funny, abrupt manner, so that one wondered if something were
wrong. He doubts if he got through. Yet it was better, more likely
to have succeeded, than with the woman. The woman was two or
three months ago, say three."
I was unaware of any such attempts, but my father, who came
through unmistakably at this same sitting, had succeeded in
manifesting his presence through Mr Vout Peters with whom I sat
on 15 and 29 January. Since Ralph came with my father to this
first Leonard sitting, it is quite possible that he made unsuccessful
attempts at those two sittings with Peters. If so, he was wrong
in supposing that the first attempt was with a woman medium, and
he is rather wide of the mark as to the time which had elapsed since.
Note that he " felt muddled," and that the description of the second
attempt is strikingly like Vout Peters as he then was, when a period
of ill health made his work difficult. Since Gould's death my only
sittings had been those two with Vout Peters.
" His age would be somewhere about 24 years."
I should have thought of him as " over 20," but learn that he
was then twenty-four.
" His mother is elderly, is living, but not in London.".
This was correct.
His appearance suggests that he passed within a year, or within
a few months."
Actually it was less than two months. As I was still quite
uncertain of the communicator's identity, I asked for his name.
Feda replying said, " He builds a '
C "
130] Appendix. Case "A." Ralph Gould 183
" He had been a journey before tie died. It was taken in three
stages. He had gone a shorter journey before the end."
Gould's three stages in the War were Gallipoli—Egypt—Mesopo-
tamia. Then going up the Tigris he fell, some miles north of
Kut. •
I was unaware at the time how perfectly applicable was all the
above to Ralph Gould ; and so, wishing to ascertain if the com-
municator might be Gould, I asked if he could say where he had
lived. My expectation was that, if Gould were speaking, he would
at once say " Beckenham," for I was then unaware of the difficulty
which names present to a communicator. Feda repeated my
question in a whisper. This was followed by further whisperings,
and then the word " suburbs " was spoken hesitatingly. Feda
then continued :
" Outside the suburbs. He lived in a proper house with a garden.
The house stands alone, or with not more than one joined to it.
There are two stories. It is not quite square. (Here followed
an endeavour to describe the roof, conveying to me the impression
of a roof broken by some architectural device into two levels.)
Not very new. There is a garden gate and Feda sees its pillars. A
path, not quite straight, leads from gate to house, with green beds
each side of it. The entrance hall is wider than a mere passage ;
on entering it there are doors on either side, then comes the staircase,
and the passage past the stairs. He was fond of this house and goes
back in thought to it."
All the above is absolutely accurate. I now felt fairly sure that
Ralph Gould was speaking, because I recognised that some at least
of these items were descriptive of his home, viz. Outside suburbs
—
proper house—standing alone—garden—two stories—not very
new—doors both sides passage.
" A river or some water is not far off, though this may not be
anything considerable. The ground seems to slope up before the
house, and behind it looks to go up as if it became a little hilly."
I believed at the time that these three items were incorrect, and
was much surprised to discover later that they were perfectly
accurate. The water is invisible from the highway, being a stream
and lake in the grounds of Ralph's old school, which is situated not
many yards from his home. In front the ground slopes gently
upward to a ridge which looks even higher than it is because crowned
by trees. At the rear rises Sydenham Hill, with the Crystal Palace
well in view.
" There is a window that goes down to the floor, a '
French
window '
; in the room where this window is he used to like to be."
Even had I remembered this French window, which I did not, I
could have known nothing of Ralph's preference for that room.
184 The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas [part
His mother says that he would go there directly on returning home
and play the piano there by the hour.
"What do you say? " (This was said softly and followed by
whisperings.) " He was fond of a ball game, a small hard ball.
Hitting it, and, he says, '
pushing.' He laughs about this pushing,
it is some joke. He hit the ball by swinging his arm like that."
(Medium's arm swings freely.) " He played it a good deal, and
he still does so. He thinks it wonderful that he can. He says
it is a compensation ; he likes to be able to play the same game
still."
Knowing nothing of Ralph's recreations I supposed this meant
golf. But his parents recognised an allusion to his two games,
billiards and tennis. He was very fond of the former, and was a
fine, free-swinging tennis player.
" He tries to give '
P,' a name. Tries . . . (Here came several
whispered attempts, apparently not satisfactory ; then tentatively
came Peterson ? Patterson ? More tries and then given up.) It
is a two-syllable name, with initial ' P '
; it has several letters, quite
six and perhaps more."
This was the only occasion, in a sitting at which several communi-
cators were introduced, where a whole name was attempted.
Ralph's parents and friends were much interested on hearing this
name, because Mr Patterson was a very old friend, whose son had
been Ralph's playmate in childhood. The boy had been recently
killed and a letter was sent to inform Ralph of the fact.
" He repeats that he had been going a journey before he passed
over. He had been to a town by the sea some months before he
passed on."
Yes, he had stayed for two weeks at Port Said.
It is remarkable that in so long a series of evidential items there
should have been so little error.
It may be convenient to set out in brief the items known to me
at the time of this sitting and then those which were unknown.
Facts within my Knowledge, and recognised as Correct
when once I had realised that the communicator was Ralph Gould.
Personal description.
Cheerful and full of life, very boyish.
Two sides to his mentality, etc.
Approximate age.
Mother elderly, living out of town.
Three stage jom'ney.
Parts of the description of his home.
130] Appendix. Case "A." Ralph Gould 185
Facts which I did not recognise as Correct
until making Inquiries and inspecting the House.
House not quite square.
Roof not quite all on one level. . ^
;
Garden gate lias pillars.
"'
.,
'x"-.-,
".
Path to house not perfectly straight. j. .
,
,
.
Path bordered by grass beds. .
.'
. ;
^
River and water not far off.
Ralph liked to be in a room which has French windows.
He had a habit of putting his hand on one's shoulder.
Ground sloping upward before the house, and a hilly rise behind it.
Ralph's ball games.
The name Patterson associated with the family.
Items which I could not possibly have known
at the Date of this Sitting.
He passed suddenly.
Not much pain, but a quick dizziness and choking, with rushing
noise in ears.
Full of life to the last day, was quickly unconscious.
Standing on something tmeven, . . . like scrambling up something.
REPORT OF AN INQUIRY INTO PRECOGNITIVE
DREAMS.i
By Theodore Besterman.
[It was Mr Besterman's original intention in planning this series of
experiments that they should be a. test of the claims concerning the pre-
cognitive element in dreams put forward by Mr J. W. Dunne in his
book An Experiment with Time, and with this object in view Mr
Besterman sought Mr Dunne's help and advice in determining the con-
ditions to be observed. In the course, however, of considerable corre-
spondence which took jilace between them over a period of nearly twelve
months, a tvide divergence of method became apparent ; in particular,
Mr Dunne did not regard the instructions sent out to the persons taking
part in the experiments as entirely satisfactory, and for this and other
reasons objected to the results obtained by Mr Besterman being regarded
as any test of his own claims.
In these circumstances it seems best to limit this report to a statement
of the results obtained ivithout attempting to relate them in any way to
Mr Dunne's opinions. Our thanks are due to Mr Dunnefor his willing-
ness to co-operate in the experiments and for the time and trouble he
exj^ended.—Hon. Ed.]
1. Introduction.
The book An Experiment with Time, by Mr J. W. Dunne, is probably
known to many readers of this report.- In this book Mr Dunne gives
an account of certain personal precognitive experiences in dreams.
So far there is nothing particularly novel in what he describes. It
has long been regarded as a possibility that precognition sometimes
occurs, and the Society has collected and published a good deal of
material bearing on this possibility.^ What was new and striking
was Mr Dunne's conclusion that precognitive dreams are as normal
and as much to be expected as dreams of the past.
This suggestion goes far beyond previous notions on the subject,
and, at the suggestion in particular of Dame Edith Lyttelton and
Rear-Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, it was decided to make some
experiments of the precognitive element in dreams.
1 Read at a Private Meeting of the Society, 4 January 1933.
It was reviewed by Mr S. G. Soal in the Journal, xxiv. 119.
^ Mr H. F. Saltmarsh has been studying this material for some time and
tells me that about 3.50 cases of supposed precognition are printed in the
Society's Proceedings and Journal,
186
PART 130] Report of an Inqiiiry into Precognitive Dreams 187
2. The Experiment : First Series.
It seemed best to experiment in the first place with persons of
known critical outlook, psychological knowledge, or other appro-
priate qualifications. A limited number of members of the Society
were accordingly invited to take part in the experiment and 25 (the
number aimed at) consented. To these subjects were sent the
following instructions, which were revised and approved by Mr
Dunne, though he made the reservation that in his opinion the
request for independent corroboration was an unnecessary pre-
caution.
" One of the outstanding characteristics of dreams is the rapidity
with which they are forgotten. Therefore make a point of trying
to remember your dreams as soon as you wake up, the moment you
recover consciousness. Keep the copybook and pencil mentioned
below within easy reach of your hand, and as soon as your dreams
begin to come back to you write them down. Don't wait for them
to take on shape or meaning but write down what you remember
as you remember it, bearing in mind that it is impossible to know
in advance which detail may be the important one. Be careful to
write down what you actually experienced in your dream as well
as your interpretation of it ;
e.g. if you found yourself in a big
building you thought was a church, you should describe it, and add
'
which I supposed to be a church.'
" Having written down your first memories, additional details may
come back to you. If so, write these down also, but distinguish
clearly (by drawing a line across the page, for instance) between
first memories and later ones.
" A copybook and pencil are being sent to you herewith to enable
you to keep a copy of your notes. Please use this indelible 'pencil,
and please remember that your notes should be completed and for-
warded (i.e. go out of your possession) before you read your paper or
letters or do anything else. Please send the perforated page or pages
forming the top copy to me at the Society for Psychical Research,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, and keep the carbon copy
forming part of the book (you will find the carbon at the end of the
book). Continue this procedure for three weeks, making a record,
if possible, each morning. If you are unable to do so, continue until
you have made twenty-one records.
" If anything occurs which you regard as a confirmation of one
of your dreams (as a whole or in part), please write an account of it
at once (not of course in the copybook) and send it to me. If the
occurrence is easily verifiable (e.g. something in the newspapers), it
is only necessary to send the relevant cutting. But if the event is,
e.g. a passing occurrence in your immediate environment, it is im-
L
188 Theodore Besterman [part
portant to have it independently confirmed. The simplest way of
doing this is to have your account read and signed by a witness of
the occurrence. Should it be impossible to obtain such corroboration
please send your account nevertheless.
" As dreams are quickly forgotten even when they are written
down, it will be advisable for you to re-read your account for the
last two days carefully each evening in case you have overlooked
some detail and to re-read the whole of your records once a week.
All such reading should be done very slowly and with frequent
pauses for consideration, since a dream incident may have a setting
which differs entirely from the background of the real, waking event
which is dreamed of, and this may militate against immediate
recognition of the connection.
" It should be noted that the connected waking experience may
be your reading of the incident in a book, or seeing it in a play,
provided, of course, that such book or play is entirely new to you.
" All records will be regarded as confidential and no names will
be published without permission.
Theodore Besterman."
Five members then dropped out. The remaining 20 sent in the
records of a total of 265 dreams, covering nearly a thousand pages.
These were carefully endorsed, studied, and filed, and they were all
re-read once a week during the eight weeks for which the experiment
was allowed to continue. At intervals letters were sent to the sub-
jects ui'ging them to continue their efforts and to keep a good
look-out for confirmatory events.
This number of 265 dreams from 20 subjects represents an average
of 13-25 dreams per subject, or very nearly the number aimed at,
fourteen, twenty-one having been asked for to make sure of getting
the smaller number. The results obtained were as follows : 20 sub-
jects sent in dreams, 14 advanced no precognitive experiences, and
the remaining six recorded 7 such experiences (about 2-6% of the
whole number).
We must now proceed to examine the seven cases put forward
by the subjects, in order to see what their evidential standing is.
As the cases are so few they will be presented in full.
(1) Subject 4 writes as follows in his second record (24-25
March, 1932) :
" A series of little action pictures on a ship which
seem to show all that goes on in the early part of the morning.
These pass rapidly before me as if I am being given a resume of the
activities of the ship's company and I remember best shaking out
more canvas to catch the early morning breeze and the decks being
swabbed down.
" Then I find myself, as one of the crew, lying on the deck up in
130] Report of an Inquiry into Precognitive Dreams 189
the bows. The day is very bright, the sea very blue, and the deck
beneath me vividly warm with the sun's rays. No land is in sight
though I feel we are not far from land. I am wearing clothes, not
unHke the uniform served out to British Naval ratings in warm
cKmates and yet subtly unlike as if the uniform were foreign.
" Now—being awake—I for some reason interpret this as Greek
Naval imiform and the scene as being on the Aegean, but I do not
know why.
" Attracted by some bread I have a host of small gulls, are swoop-
ing round me and the word '
Kittiwake '
comes to me strongly in
the dream. But one of the gulls is very much larger and greedier
than the others. It has something peculiar about, or wrong with,
its head ; I cannot clearly see what.
The subject comments (26 March, 1932) :
" On Friday evening
[25 March], being in London and having nothing to do, I went to
the Rialto Cinema Theatre in Coventry Street at 6 p.m.—when its
doors opened. The first film shown was a review of British Sport
entitled '
Be a Sport ' and contained—among much relating to other
Sports—some pictures of yacht racing showing the Britannia com-
peting with other yachts. The photographs were, several of them,
taken from amidships looking forward over the bows of one of the
competing yachts and showed in the foreground a part of the deck,
tackle, and the curve of the sail, with some of the crew lying on the
deck.
" Beyond all this could be seen stretches of bright, sunlit sea and
some of the other yachts—but no land.
" All this bears some resemblance to my dream of Friday morn-
ing : The boats were of about the same size as the one in my dream.
The weather and sea were the same. The uniforms of the crew were
similar as also was the view of the forepart of the boat. There was
a photograph of putting out more sail.
" On the other hand the view of the bows of the boat was not
more than similar. In my dream I had been alone up in the bows
and had been surrounded by gulls of which I did not see one in
the fikn.
" Your circular letter invites me to write if I regard an incident
as confirmation of my dream. This is to put on me an onus that
should, I think, be partly borne by you since you are collecting the
records of these experiments. I should not call the above events
confirmatory but if I were keeping a series of records I should note
such occurrences and begin to be impressed if they were frequent.
" This letter will be signed and each page of it initialled by [name
and address omitted] who was with me on the evening concerned.
" Before I close I will add that I rarely visit a cinema and have
not done so for nearly two months. Also that I have not passed
190 Theodore Bestermmi [part
the doors of fclie Eialto for over a week and as far as I can determine
no pictures of this particular film were on view at the doors. How-
ever, I often do pass the Rialto, and some such pictures may for-
merly have been exhibited there. Moreover, I am told that this film
has recently been shown in another, —and therefore, perhaps, in
several others—West End cinemas. I am often in the West End
and might have unconsciously seen advertisements of it.
" Yet I do not think I have done so."
This statement is endorsed by the above-mentioned witness : "I
agree entirely with this written account of the Film shown at the
Rialto on Friday March 25th."
This subject states the case very fairly himself, and there is no
need to add anything to his own remark, " I should not call the
above events confirmatory."
(2) Subject 7 writes in his first record (23-24 March 1932) :
" I
dreamt I saw a letter for me on the breakfast table. It was poised
on a cup. The address, which was written, was slightly smudged
at left hand side. The envelope was foolscap size, inscribed '
On
His Majesty's Service '
but white in colour. I remember thinking
'
It's a wonder they didn't register that letter.' I did not actually
see the address although I knew the letter was for me. There was
no one in the room when I walked in and saw the letter.
" I seemed to know that the letter related to the conversion of
some National Savings Certificates."
The subject comments (31 March 1932) :
" I received yesterday,
30 March 1932, a letter endorsed '
On His Majesty's Service '
(see
Dream dated 24 March 1932) and I append a comparison between
the various statements in the dream and what actually happened.
There does not seem to be much of interest in the comparison, but
I take it you want anything that may seem, even remotely, to have
a bearing on the dreams. [I have added the numbers in square
brackets.— Th. B.] (See pp. 192 and 193.)
Geyieral Notes.
1. This was my onlj^ dream about these certificates.
2. The coincidence of dates :
Dream : Night of 23rd.
Communication : 22nd (altered to 24th).
3. Letter not registered. But
4. Of course the receipt of some communication relating to the
conversion of the certificates was inevitable, sooner or later.
5. The fact that a month had elapsed since the date fixed for con-
version made the receipt of a communication probably imminent."
Here again the siibject has provided an admirable commentary,
130] Report of an Inquiry into Precognitive Dreams 191
to which nothing need be added. The coincidence of dates is of
course significant, since if the incident were in itself sufficiently
striking to merit further analysis, it might be attributed to
telepathy.
(3) The same subject writes in his sixth record (30-31 March
1932)
:
" I was expecting, in my dream, a registered letter. It did not
come. I thought '
The postman, finding no-one at home, has just
put the letter in the letter-box and signed the receipt himself.' I
went to the Luton General Post Office to inquire. I was told the
letter had been delivered and that they had my signature to that
effect. I repHed :
'
Before we go any further you had better take
my signature for comparison.'
"
The subject observes (31 March 1932) :
" A registered letter did
arrive for me this morning. My housekeeper signed the receipt."
Clearly there is only a feeble amount of coincidence.
(4) Subject 13 writes as part of his ninth record (3-4 April 1932) :
"... Another, larger, lake among pinewoods, which an American
companion would call '
jungle,' to my annoyance. A boat laid up
on a sort of floating dock. Another boat, a small steamer, came to
a landing-place. Someone told me that the steamer would call both
sides of the lake as long as the other boat was laid up."
The subject comments (4 April 1932) :
" When I saw (8.45 a.m.)
in to-day's Times the obituary of D. H. MacBrayne, on whose
steamers I have often travelled, I thought of the last part of last
night's dream [i.e. because the scenery of the dream was associated
by the subject with the MacBrayne steamers]. But I had a sus-
picion that I had seen of the death before and find it was in Satur-
day's [2 April 1932] Times (death-column)." Again no further
comment is required.
(5) Subject 14 writes in her first record (24-25 March 1932) :
" I dreamt I was out walking with my M., and a governess who
appeared to be a foreigner. I am not sure whether I. (my daughter)
was there or not. M. fell over the edge of a small pond which was
concreted round. There was only about a foot of water in the pond
and I was in no fear of his drowning, but thought he might hit his
head. I jumped into the pond myself, getting my feet wet, and
handed him up to the governess. We then started to go home and
'
I woke."
The subject comments (25 March 1932) :
" It is perhaps just
worth noting that w^hen I came back from Frinton in the late after-
noon of that day I. told me the nursery party had all been '
in the
I
marshes '
and got into the mud '
M. too.' This is the first time this
year they have been there (it is not a winter walk) and the first
time M. has ever been there on his own feet. I had no reason
192 Theodore Besterman [part
Co
ft:?
^•2
o
<Ci (X>
4-1
O
o3
cc si
^ go
HO OJ
"
Ph
Ph
o
fin
O
O ^ ^ TO
> 40 C3 IB
" Oi !1> <^
O CD t^--*^
o
^ S 2 o
^ X ^
CO
«!«>
10
CD
t3
CD
_o
'-3
o
• I—
I
Pi
a
a
o
O
(M CM
CO CO
o o
c3 c3
O
g .
. . CM
^ a
.2 Ph
> ^
W CM
o
bjo
a
o
cm
P
o
+2
o
P-(
O
o
CM
CM
CO
r—
I
o
f-H
CO
<M
O
0)
-1-3
!^ CO
Ph
a)
o3
^
S 25 P-i
1 S §^
I—I ^ P
p
a p-(
be
CO
CO
<D
03
<D
JH
c3
0) 40
^ 03
bD
r—
CO 5
Pm
o3
o
CO
CO
c3
P
O)
(i>
-P
cn
CO
CO
CO
t3
o
CO ,
.a
lo" !>
I—J ^-1
CD
m
130] Report of an Inqniry into Precognitive Dreams lOo
q=i o X o ?^
r3 O) c:! OJ
^
> >
^ 'P ;h I—I
^ m
-tJ O cS
^ ^ ^ I i ^ ^ g s -I,
J ro ^ cIL Ji! i*-^
be
o
cS <-<
<u '23
^ ^'
<U CD
. 2 ^ S
H "5b
g O OJ
-1^
o
M
4^
4^
4^ -(-^
HH yz; .t;
o
o
O
o
f-i
o
O
o
CD
4^ 4^
1
—
I
"bb
^ Cj
4^ 4^
g ^
I—1^ ^
O c5
l=i
m i—
I
2 a
00
2
O <D
M I—
I
4^
O) 4^
o o
O
to
O CO
O)
4^
?-i 4^
(D m
> 03
bC
2>
4^ oS
m
104 Theodore Besterman [part
to anticipate their going. The connection with my dream is
however very sKght. There is no pond in the marshes and no
concrete."
(6) Subject 16 wi'ites in her eighth record (11-12 April 1932) :
" I was at a co-education college but I was older. A self govern-
ment committee of students decided everyone should go naked.
The majority did so. I was uncertain but did, only I was embar-
rassed and kept my arms crossed and remained sitting."
The subject sent a cutting from the Daily Herald of 12 April 1932,
which she regarded as " the only possible bit of evidence." The
message in the paper is headed " Clothes Drown Girl Nudist," and
reads as follows :
" Mile. Madeleine Boucher, a pretty 20-year-old member of the
nudist colony at Physiopolis-on-Seine, near Paris, was drowned
yesterday because she was too well clothed.
" Mile Boucher, who was in a canoe with M. Paol, another young
nudist, had dressed to leave the nudists' island sanctuary for the
mainland.
" When they were in midstream the canoe capsized, and the girl
was carried away by the current and drowned.
" An investigation disclosed that her water-logged clothes were
responsible for her death."
Here the sole point of contact is the reference to nakedness. The
cutting might indeed be more plausibly regarded as a confirmation
of a passage in the same subject's first record (27-28 March 1932) :
" Dream of a river with a strong current, we played a game of being
swept away. One girl was swept away."
(7) Subject 20 writes as part of her third record (27-28 March
1932)
:
"... I called on a mother and daughter (imknown and cannot
describe). They were living in a very new house—woodwork was
all quite un])ainted. I was having tea (or coifee) out of blue and
white cups, blue came in alternate stripes and was a dark sort of
Crown Derby blue. Somehow we went upstairs, with cups in hand,
to look at the house. At the top the stairs stopped short before a
top landing. There was a i^ery wide dark board bridging the chasm
l)ut I hate heights and planks, and my cup crashed to the floor in
the hall, and I went downstairs refusing to look at top flat. I picked
up the cup, which was not much damaged and looked at base for
name of maker to replace. Got it, but can't recall, except it was
one name and a place-name. Found the handle was intact and a
curious flat square shape pressed against the cup. ... In fact I don't
know what broke at all about the cup. Talk of replacement and
I woke."
130] Report of an Inquiry into Precognitive Dreams 195
The subject writes (5 April 1932) :
" Last evening, 4th April, I went to play bridge with friends
nearby. Our coffee was served in cups each of which was different
from the other. I had never seen these cups before, and my friend
said she had had them five years but had never used them till
yesterday. They w^ere good ones, and Worcester china. Two of
them were dark blue ground with gold inside the cup. The third
was blue and white, in stripes, the blue being the sort of dark blue
I had seen in my dream. But, at first I did not notice the resem-
blance because the shape was different, it was a straight shaped cup,
not the more '
basin '
shape I had seen, and the stripes were even
in width, whereas the ones in the dream had been wider at the top
than at the base. Also there was a little gold pattern (conventional)
over the blue stripes which I had not noticed in my dream. Also
the handle of the cup was quite an ordinary shape, gold, not Kke
the one in my dream, which had seemed a feature. We did not go
upstairs, it is not a very new house, and there is no mother and
daughter there, but a husband and wife. I did not break one of
the cups either. But I did, before I noticed the resemblance, pick
up one of the other cups and look at the base for the 2iame of the
china. This was because I made a remark about the three cups as
very pretty, as soon as I saw them. The other two were quite
unlike the striped one, it stood alone. It was also bigger, and the
cup I had seen was a good size. I should say bigger than the one
last night.
" I don't suppose this is of any value, but had better send it for
what it is worth."
This concludes the description of the incidents put forward by the
subjects themselves as possibly of precognitive interest. Case 4 is
clearly a case of cryptomnesia. In cases 3, 5, 6 and 7 the amount
of coincidence is so slight that it would be improper to assume the
presence of any element of precognition. This leaves two cases,
Nos. 1 and 2, in which there is a prima facie case for precognition.
Neither of the cases is of more than moderate value.
3. The Experiment : Second Series.
Mr Dunne suggested the possibility that the age of the S.P.R.
subjects (averaging roughly 45-50) had militated against success,
and the experiment was therefore continued with a group of Oxford
undergraduates. Mr H. H. Price, Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford,
and Lecturer in Philosophy, kindly co-operated and a group of
twenty-two undergraduates undertook to record their dreams. They
received the same instructions as the S.P.R group, and, in addition,
Mr Dunne addressed them on the subject. They sent their records
196 Theodore Bestermnn [part
in closed envelopes to Mr Price each morning, who forwarded them
unopened in a covering envelope to me. They were then treated
in the same way as the S.P.R. records.
The Oxford undergraduates proved somewhat less persistent than
the S.P.R. group, partly owing to the incidence of examinations.
The twenty-two subjects produced a total of only 148 records (an
average of under seven), only one of them completing the course
and sending in the full number of twenty-one records. On the other
hand, the Oxford group claimed many more precognitive dreams
than did the S.P.R. subjects. Of the twenty-two Oxford subjects
ten did not claim any such dreams ; the remaining twelve included
most of the persistent subjects and sent in 1 13 records. These twelve
subjects claimed 32 precognitive dreams between them ; to this
number has to be added one apparent precognition not noticed by
the subject, and pointed out by Mr Dunne. Not by any means the
whole of these 33 dreams are put forward very seriously as pre-
cognitions. A number of them were merely sent in as possibly of
interest. I do not therefore propose to take up the space that would
be required by describing the whole of these cases in full, and I will
merely summarise them.
(1) Subject 03 describes in his first record (19-20 May 1932) a
dream in which he saw a map of Northern Europe, with Finland
and North Russia prominent ; there were other details. On the
afternoon of 20 May he walked into the room of a friend who had
open before him a map of Scandinavia and Finland ; none of the
other details was confirmed. The incident is corroborated.
(2) Subject 04 in his eighth record (31 May-1 June 1932) gives a
full description of a complicated dream. A few points in this are
referred to by him in the following passage :
" On Wednesday
[? Tuesday, 31 May] night I had a discussion with someone about
the pre-Raphaelites. Afterwards I dreamed that I was in Trafalgar
sq. and went down some steps till I saw a notice up to the Lyall
galleries. When I sent in the result the record of the dream I put
'
Tate and Lyle '
in brackets. On Friday I read in the Times that
'
Leonard Lyle of the famous firm of sugar refiners '
had received a
knighthood. ..."
(3) Subject 05 describes in his second record (19-20 May 1932)
among a number of other things a car and children meddling
with it. He writes that on the morning of the 20th he received
a letter with news of a motor accident. " Details were quite
different."
(4) Subject 010 writes in his first record (23-24 May 1932) :
" I
dreamed a date, 1917, and a figure, 65, were mentioned to me signifi-
cantly." This subject sends a cutting from the News Chronicle of
24 May, 1932, on the front page of which is a long article, during
130] Report of an Inquiry ivto Precognitive Dreams 197
the course of wliich, among other figures, and widely disconnected,
occur " £6,500 " and " 1917."
(5-17) These all occur in the records of Subject Oil, twelve of
them put forward by herself and one by Mr Dunne. This subject's
records are the best in accuracy and thoroughness of recording of
any of those who took part in the two series.
(5) In her fourth record (29-30 May 1932) Subject Oil describes
the opening by a friend of a parcel by slipping the strings round the
corners. On 30 May she herself opened a parcel of the " same size
"
by slipping the string round the corners. Actually the size is not
mentioned in the record.
(6) Later in the same record the subject writes of some friends
learning German and of a small boy, who does not know French,
learning German by gramoj)hone. On the evening of 30 May it was
suggested to a friend, in this subject's presence, " that she should
learn German and then she should do some more French, in that
order." Corroborated by two witnesses.
(7) In her seventh record (1-2 June 1932) Oil goes to see some-
body in her room in college about some money matters which are
not quite straight. Three weeks later the subject settled some
financial matters with the President of the Junior Common Room.
(8) In her tenth record (4-5 June 1932) this subject describes a
series of incidents in which honeysuckle plays a part. On 5 June a
friend with whom the subject was walking thought she smelt honey-
suckle. " Later in the day we passed a cottage with honeysuckle
in full bloom by the door. It was the first I have seen this year
and had the same yellow and purpUsh colours as the '
honeysuckle-
seed '
of the dream." Corroborated by the friend in question.
(9) In the same record Subject Oil describes a dream in which
she was dining at high table, saw the Principal coming in in a grey
dress of a material like georgette, and took soup flavoured with
tomato. On 14 June " the Principal [of Somerville College] wore
for dinner a grey georgette dress which she had not worn before.
The soup was not flavoured with tomato ; but tomatoes were served
as a vegetable." The grey dress is corroborated by the Principal.
I (10) In her eleventh record (6-7 June 1932) the subject writes in
part :
" Find myself in a small room as though hastily arranged for
a meeting. I am sitting in the front row in a low chair. M. R. H.
is on my left in a high one. There are railway posters on the left
wall of a room. A man comes in to speak. He is sunburned and
wears a dressing gown. He says he is a railway director and has
been to Chelsea for a holiday. . . . My mother gives me some tea
knives to polish and to put away. ..." On 7 June the subject " was
present at a conversation which turned largely on holidays. Later
in the same conversation someone mentioned the Polytechnic at
198 Theodore Besterman [part
Chelsea. 1 do not think I had spoken or thought of Chelsea for
some time. . . . During the conversation I was sitting to the right
of [M. R. H.]. I was sitting on a chair much lower than hers. A
large picture in the room was more than once referred to as a poster.
Just before the conversation she had borrowed two of my tea knives.
Afterwards I put the knives which had been used together on a tray
on the table." Corroborated by M. R. H.
(11) In the same record the subject writes :
" As I woke I heard
very clearly the phrase, '
The Times, dreams of four men.' " The
subject writes :
" Mr Dunne has pointed out to me that this is
probably connected with John Buchan's latest book, The Gap in the
Curtain, which is based on An Experiment with Time and deals with
the successful efforts of four men to get a provisional glimpse of a
page of the Times." In a letter dated 7 September 1932 Mr John
Buchan states that his book was first published and reviewed on
7 July and that it was " largely inspired " by Mr Dunne's book.
The subject states that she first read the book at the beginning of
August.
(12) In her fifteenth record (10-11 June 1932) Subject Oil says
to J. B. that she thinks a certain language may be Norwegian or
Finnish. She writes :
" In the course of conversation with her
[J. B.] on June 11, I said I hoped that she had been working hard
at Norwegian grammar. The remark was unusual as it was purely
a slip of the tongue. I meant Old Norse." Corrborated by J. B.
(13) In the same record the subject writes :
" I look for letters.
There are some folded forms in the pigeon-hole, a book of stamps
and a number of photographs. Coloured photographs are also pinned
round the pigeon-hole. One of the forms is addressed to Miss Lee
and I wonder why it should be in the H pigeon-hole." This sub-
ject's name begins with H. She comments :
" On June 11th there
were a number of notices round the pigeon-hole, one of them bright
orange. It was a notice that unstamped letters should not be put
in the letter-box. I found a note addressed to Miss Richmond and
wondered, as in the dream, why it should be in the H pigeon-hole."
Corroborated.
(14) Still in the same dream the subject saw, with various details, in
a play or film, a number of people she supposed to be prisoners in a
large building like a church. During a conversation on 12 June " the
subject of church services in prisons was discussed." Corroborated.
(15) In her sixteenth record (11-12 June 1932) Subject Oil writes :
" Look out of the window and see a small boy dressed as a Red
Indian. He is practically naked and his skin is coloured. More
small boys come to meet him—normally dressed. ... I look into a
garden and see a kind of bridge which they have made. I wonder
where they have got so much wood. The handrail is formed of very
130] Rejjorf of an Inquiry iyito Precognitive Dreams 19U
long pieces and is split in places. I lift up the separate pieces one
by one." The subject comments that on 12 June " I crossed a
bridge over a small creek. It was very roughly made of long and
rather thin pieces of timber. It had a handrail on each side. The
bridge itself was Hke the handrail in the dream. The different pieces
fitted very badly and moved under my feet as the rail in the dream
did when I hfted the various pieces. Shortly after crossing the
bridge I saw a number of small boys bathing in the river."
(16) In the same dream the subject is going to a concert at BaUiol
and wonders what to wear. She thinks she must put on a big coat
if she wears a thin dress, as it is very cold. The subject writes :
" On June 12th, my friend [G. H. J.] discussed with me what she
should wear for a concert. She said that earlier in the Term she
had always worn a fur coat to go to the Balliol concerts as it had
been so cold." Corroborated by G. H. J.
(17) In the same dream Subject Oil sees a lady moving a table
and chair so that they stand in the sunlight. The subject writes :
" On June r2th I washed my hair and wished to sit in the sun to
dry it. I moved first my table so that I could sit by it in the sun
and then took a low chair over to the window and sat in it in a
patch of sunlight."
(18-21) occur in the records of Subject 014.
(18) In his third record (24-25 May 1932) this subject refers to a
" small curtained cell " connected with phrenology. Six weeks later
the subject went into a palmist's tent which was " an almost exact
replica " of the dream cell. This however is not described in the
record.
(19) Later in the same dream this subject describes a room, a
few of the details of which he thinks were confirmed about three
months later. In view of the long interval and the small degree
of concordance it is unnecessary to go into details.
(20) The same remark apphes to a description in this subject's
fifth record (5-6 June 1932) in which a canoe with a canvas cover is
described, and which the subject thinks was partly confirmed about
two and a half months later.
(21) In his sixth record (16-17 June 1932) Subject 014 writes :
" Dream I was saihng alone in a small boat constructed out of a num-
ber of cartwheels cut in half, with planks nailed along and tarred.
When I stood up the boat upset and I found myself swimming in
rather muddy water— in a bathing dress." On 14 July 1932, nearly
a month later, this subject writes to say that he had seen an object
200 Theodore Besterman [PAKT
" precisely the same as that seen in my dream." He encloses the
following corroboration from the Vicar of C. : "I "witness having
observed—in company with subject 014—a curious object of the
shape drawn below—being carried by a man up the hill outside the
vicarage, C, on Thursday July 14th at 4.10 p.m. (3 half circles of
wood joined together with slats of wood)."
(22-25) occur in the records of Subject 015.
(22) In his first record (19-20 May 1932) this subject dreamed of
a person lecturing, which was of course confirmed the next dav.
(23) In his third record (23-24 May 1932) he writes of a conver-
sation about the Oxford Group. This was confirmed the next day.
Corroborated.
(24) In his fifth record (27-28 May 1932) the subject dreamed that
the furniture in his rooms had been moved. The next morning he
mentioned this dream to the friend with whom he shares his rooms.
Later in the day he found that the table in his room had been moved.
Corroborated.
_
(25) In his sixth record (29-30 May 1932) 015 dreamed of an open-
air meeting of the Oxford Group movement led by the Vicar of
St Aldates. Ten days later he saw the vicar of St Aldates leading an
open-air meeting not connected with the Oxford Group movement.
(26) In his first record (19-20 May 1932) Subject 017 dreams of
a stout lady arriving in a grey Austin 7. On the following day he
heard that some relations of a friend had arrived in Oxford in a
blue Austin 7.
(27-29) occur in the records of Subject 018.
(27) In his first record this subject describes a dream in which
he realised with a feeling of frustration that he was late for an
engagement. He vaguely remembers a sequel in which he was
apologising to his brother for the error. The following day he
suddenly remembered with the same feeling that he was late for a
meeting of a discussion group, to which he made an apology which
he had been meditating for the past week. Corroborated.
(28) In his third record this subject describes a dream generally
connected with the Oxford Group movement. This was vaguely
confirmed the next day.
(29) In his fourth record 018 writes, among other things, of " two
screen vamps." The following day he had a conversation on the
subject of impurity and moral delinquencies.
(30) In his first record Subject 020 describes a scene which was
confirmed by something he saw the following day in a film. Unfor-
130] Report of an Inquiry into Precognitive Dreams 201
tunately the main point in the incident was not included in the
record, so that it is not necessary to go into details.
(31) The same subject writes to say that a number of minor points
in his fourth record (24-25 May 1932) were afterwards confirmed.
'Ue of these points is worth describing in detail.
(32) Subject 021 in his second record (20-21 May 1932) writes of
a sports ground with tiers of seats. He sends a cutting from the
Suv^' Pictorial of 22 May, a photograph of the interior of the
Albert Hall while in use for a gymnastic display.
(33) In his second record (21-22 May 1932) Subject 022 dreamed
of a " schoolgirl of about 16, with long hair." The following day
he saw such a girl, though he does not know her age nor whether
she is a schoolgirl.
Of these 33 cases it is clear that 21 (Nos. 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 16,
17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33) must be ruled out as
of no value. Of the remaining twelve cases ten may be described
as poor or indifferent (Nos. 1, 4, 8, 9, 14, 15, 20, 21, 24, 25,) and two
as good (Nos. 10 and 11). It will probably be agreed, however, that
neither of these cases is " conclusive." No. 10 has ample detail and
was confirmed within a day, but not with great exactness. No. 11
has little detail and was confirmed only in a month in general and
in two months so far as the subject is concerned, since she first read
the book at the beginning of August. Thus, out of the 148 dreams of
the Oxford Group we have a total of 12 apparent precognitions (just
over 8%), including two good ones, but no " conclusive " instance.
4. The Experiment : Third Series.
At the same time as the second series was begun, I invited Mr
Dunne to send in a similar series of records himself, in view of the
possibility that the successes recorded in his book might have been
due to some special " faculty " in himself. Mr Dunne pointed out
that it was a long time since the precognitive dreams recorded in
his book occurred and that there was clearly no guarantee that he
would be able to repeat those results. Nevertheless he agreed to
make the attempt. Unfortunately he found that he now had con-
siderable difficulty in remembering his dreams, and accordingly the
seventeen excellent and detailed records he sent in were spread over
a considerable period, 16 May to 30 September 1932.
Mr Dunne put forward five cases of precognition, and I will quote
these in full in his own words.
(1) In his second record (22-23 May 1932) Mr Dunne wrote :
" A
bishop had written to me suggesting that my wife and I be recon-
firmed. Had forgotten to reply. Met him some ten days later. He
tackled me on the subject. We talked, both leaning on the window-
sill of a window looking over gardenlike scene. I seemed sometimes
202 Theodore Bestennan [part
to be leaning on a table in the window and sometimes on the sill
itself. I apologised for not having replied. He wanted me to accept
his offer at once as he would only be there for another ten days.
I tried to draw a red herring."
Mr Dunne writes that one to four days later he " was asked to
tea to meet the Bishop who married me over four years ago. Had
not seen or heard or spoken of him for two years. It is a joke
between my wife and myself that we would like to have our wedding
over again, and I should never have missed saying that to the
Bishop had I met him. I accepted the invitation, but illness pre-
vented me from going."
(2) In his fifth record (28-29 May 1932) Mr Dunne writes :
" Was
standing on a high terrace or roof-garden. A new Dunne-type aero-
plane appeared in the sky, very noisy and climbing at a tremendous
rate. It had the usual arrowhead shape, but almost everything was
placed above the wings instead of, as usual, below them. The effect
was as if it were flying upside down. It had been built by a foreigner.
Was told that it was one of a number of aeroplanes which were out
searching for a missing airship."
Mr Dunne writes :
" The '
Dunne '
aeroplanes were the first of
the tail-less machines, and came to an end about 1916. In about
1924 this type was revived by Lieutenant Hill under the name of
the '
Pterodactyl,' built from my patents and with my consent and
assistance. At the time of the dream I knew of only two machines
of this type : the '
Pterodactyl '
and one built by a German. On
June 18th I saw in a hairdresser's shop a picture of, apparently, a
new '
Pterodactyl '
(cutting enclosed), and in the '
Morning Post
'
of June 24th I read that this machine, piloted by Lieutenant Stain-
forth (who holds the world's speed record) was going to join with
others in a '
balloon stunt ' at Hendon. I enclose several press cut-
tings referring to this incident, from which it will be seen that Stain-
forth beat the other craft engaged and shot down the monster-
shaped balloons. One cuttmg says that he amazed the crowd by
his evolutions around the monsters as he brought them down. Such
'
evolutions '
would naturally suggest '
looping,' the commonest
feature of aerial fighting, but a feat which the old-time '
Dunnes
'
were unable to accomplish, and so of particular interest in any dream
of a '
Dunne.' The speed was also of interest, for the old '
Dunnes
'
were slow. The noisiness remarked in the dream might be accounted
for by the revolver shots."
(3) In his eleventh record (21-22 June 1932) Mr Dunne wrote
briefly all that he " could recall from a long series of dreams " :
" My [relative] in America had broken his leg (later, his neck), by
walking on a ledge which had given way."
Mr Dunne writes :
" On the morning of Jime 25th I received a
130] Report of an Inquiry into Precognitive Dreams 203
copy of a letter from the British Consul at Los Angeles stating that
my [relative] in America was stranded penniless in that town and
would probably be deported unless funds for his maintenance were
forthcoming. 1 spent most of the day writing letters about this
affair. In the evening I read in a '
shocker '
{Tale of Two Murders,
by H. C. Asterley, published by Jarrolds) of a man who had fallen
from an ornamental ledge which ran along the side of a house. The
book describes him (page 62) as '
lying there on the pathway with
his left leg twisted up under his body in a sickening, horrible manner,'
but the reader is left in doubt as to whether the man is dead. If he
were, it would mean that the hero's best friend, who caused the fall,
had committed a murder—which I considered a very unlikely
development. However, on the next page, it is stated that some-
one approaches the man and finds that he is, in fact, dead.
" At first (as usual) I regarded this as a minor result, but on
thinking it over, it seems to me to be a perfect example of a blend
between two experiences, both future. I enclose the copy I received of
the Consul's letter, together with the dated letter of the sender of this.
"
(4) In his twelfth record (22-23 June 1932) Mr Dunne writes :
" Was on a road in a town—a road at a higher level than the houses
on one side—fifty feet to seventy feet higher. Was looking down
on a small cinema. The content's bill over the door showed that a
film based on a story by Owen Wister was being shown. This story
was not '
The Virginian '
but was a similar cowboy story about one
of the Virginian's friends. The name Evans came into the title."
Mr Dunne writes : "On June 26th Mr Fitzgerald of Wroxton
came to lunch. He began talking about revolver shooting, and, to
illustrate a point, asked me if I had seen the film of Owen Wister's
book '
The Virginian.' I cannot recall that I had ever heard of such
a film having been made, though I have a dim notion of something
connected with that subject having occurred at Hastings last wmter.
Films are rarely spoken-of in this house."
(5) In his fifteenth record (17-18 July 1932) Mr Dunne wrote :
" Was in a building full of small school dormitories. It had four
floors, with a separate staircase to each floor. The bedsteads were
of iron. I began to wonder how I would get out if there was a fire,
and contrived some plan which involved jumping from bed to bed.
Presently there either was a fire from which I was escaping, or else
I was rehearsing my planned escape.
" The scene got mixed up with a school rag in which someone
was using a long wooden bench as a weapon.
" Was outside the school looking at a small oblong building ol
dull gray brick. It bordered a deep gully on the right as I faced it.
The gully was crossed by a bridge on my right. There was a noise
of trains. The building had been erected as a memorial of someone
M
204 Theodore Besterman [part 130]
and had an inscription (small) on the gidly side to that effect.
Thought the inscription was to the memory of Chevasse. {N.B.—
That seems to be a clear reference to the past, as I saw a memorial
pulpit unveiled to Chevasse, lately)."
Mr Dunne writes :
" Visited the '
Bluecoat School ' (Christ's
Hospital) at Horsham that day [18 July]. Saw the bridge on my
right crossing the gully at Guildford, en route. Was lodged in the
small house of dull grey brick (but with a red tiled roof). It was
at the bottom of another gully and beside another bridge crossing
this, but on the wrong side. A railway line passed twenty yards
from the door ; but I was told that no trains ran at night so that
I would not be disturbed. This was a mistake. Trains thundered
by apparently every half hour during the night and woke me re-
peatedly."
Of these five cases it will probably be agreed that number 5 must
be rejected as showing no evidence of precognition, and that the
remaining four eases offer fair or moderate jyrhna facie cases for
precognition.
5. Conclusion.
We may now sum up these three series as follows : forty-three
subjects sent in 430 records of dreams, an average of ten each.
Since I was endeavouring to test the claim that precognitive dream
experiences are shared by everybody, there can be no objection to
treating the entire body of dreams received as a whole for statistical
purposes, even though a number of the subjects did not send in
the full complement of dreams. These forty-three subjects, then,
put forward forty-five events in their dreams as being possibly pre-
cognitive, or an average of just over one apiece. Of these forty-five
cases ]; regard eighteen as having a frima facie case, of which two
have a good case. I do not regard any of these eighteen cases as
capable of being regarded as conclusive instances of precognition.
These figures are of course merely a personal estimate. With
" free " material such as this, where one has no certain basis for
statistical evaluation, there must always be room for difference of
o])inion. I believe, however, that my estimate will not be seriously
contested in a more optimistic direction.
At the same time some points of interest have been brought out
and a suggestive line for future research has been emphasised. I
must express my hearty thanks to all the subjects, and particularly
the Oxford Group, on whom we had no claim, for the time and
trouble they took in recording their dreams for the purpose of this
experiment. We are indebted also to Mr H. H. Price for the trouble
and care he took in collecting and forwarding the dreams of the
Oxford Group.
VISIONS AND APPARITIONS COLLECTIVELY
— AND RECIPROCALLY PERCEIVED
.... ,, : .!: !
: , ,
By Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart :
Apparitions are of central interest in connection with certain
problems of psychical research. Normally, likenesses of persons
appear in memories, in dreams, and in imaginative experiences in
general. Less ordinarily they appear in crystal visions, hypnotically
induced hallucinations, and in perception of apparitions. In the
present study we have undertaken the collection of the best evi-
denced available cases of certain crucial types. All authenticated
instances in which two or more individuals have seen the same
apparition at the same time, have been sought for. In addition,
search has been made for the best-proved cases of reciprocal dreams,
of cases where an apparition of a hving person has coincided with
a parallel dream by the appearer, and of cases where apparitions
have resulted from deUberate attempts at " projection " by the
appearer. From among the cases located, all those have been elimi-
nated where it has seemed to us that such hypotheses as mistaken
identity, normal suggestion, or sleep-walking might be advanced
with any plausibility. Reports of professional mediumistic seances
have not been included in this study.
The evidential standards set for inclusion in this study are as
follows. In cases accepted as of primary evidential value, the
accounts must have been written out by two or more of the per-
cipients, or must have been approved in writing by both of them,
within one year of the date of the occurrence. The accounts must
contain internal evidence that each percipient had a clearly in-
dependent experience of the phenomenon, and did not merely
endorse or assent to an experience alleged by another percipient.
Cases conforming to these primary standards are given numbers
preceded by the letter p. In addition to these, however, secondary
examples will be cited, with numbers preceded by the letter s.
Among evidential considerations to be taken into account in con-
sidering the value of these additional cases are the number and
known character of witnesses, the previous existence of records
written at or near the time of the occurrence, but which were not
available to the investigator reporting the case, and the testimony
of persons to whom the case was reported immediately after the
occurrence, particularly when the report was made in reciprocal
cases before the verifying information was received by the percipient.
Besides the primary and secondary cases, a number of tertiary
205
206 Horn ell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
evidential quality have been included, and designated by tbe letter
t. This group includes in general all cases cited in which the in-
dependent testimony of two or more percipients was not secured.
The cases have been collected by search through the Proceedings
and Journal of both the S.P.R. and the American S.P.R. ; Phantasms
of the Living ; Human Persoyiality and its Survival of Bodily Death,
by F. W. H. Myers ; Noted Witnesses for Psychic Occurrences, 1928,
and Human Experiences, 1931, both by Walter Franklin Prince,
and other books as noted.
In studying these cases, facts have been sought bearing on the
answers to the following questions. (1) How well authenticated
are cases where two or more persons have perceived the same
apparition (or dream-shape of a person) imder conditions not
favourable to the hypothesis that one of the percipients may have
induced the experiences in the others by normal suggestion ? (2)
How closely identical have the experiences of the different per-
cipients been ? (3) In what respects have the apparitions con-
formed, or failed to conform, to the appearance of normal persons ?
(4) To what extent have the apparitions and the dream-shapes of
persons here involved been self-conscious entities, and to what
extent have they been mere simulacra ? (5) In what respects have
the apparitions fitted themselves into the space-time environment,
and in what ways have they transcended the ordinary laws of matter,
space and time ? (6) At how great distances from each other have
the agents and the percipients been when reciprocal or coincidental
apparitions have occurred ? (7) What emotional and intellectual
linkages have been apparent among the percipient, the appearer,
the emotional crises or intellectual focuses of either, and the place
of appearance ? (8) What evidence have collectively perceived
apparitions of the dead given as to whether they represented sur-
viving personalities ?
Instead of attempting to present the evidence bearing upon each
of these questions separately, clarity will be served by simimarising
all the authenticated cases found, of each of several general types,
and then discussing their interpretation.^
Collective Crystal Visions and Allied Phenomena
Like reciprocal dreams, and like collective perceptions of apparitions,
collective crystal visions usually involve the perception of persons
not present in the ordinary space-time way. Unlike dreams, in
crystal visions the focus of the observer's consciousness seems to be
outside the scene rather than in the midst of it. And unlike the
1 Among previous discussions of collective cases the following may be
mentioned Phantasms of the Living, ii. 168-70 ; F. W. H. Myers, Human
Personality, ii. 260-5.
130] Visions and Apparitions 207
perception of apparitions, the figures seen in crystal visions seem
to be in an environment of their own, not in the surroundings of the
percipient. The first two cases below are collective crystal visions
proper.
p 1. In or about 1897 a Miss Rose called on a Miss Angus, to ask
the latter to look in a crystal for her. The two looked in the crystal
alternately. Both saw a bed, with a man lying on it, apparently
dead, and a lady in black sitting beside it, or at least present in the
room. The case was reported to Andrew Lang by Miss Angus
within a day or two of its occurrence, and it was then confirmed to
him verbally by Miss Rose. In December, 1897, each of the ladies
submitted an independent written account. The accounts disagree
as to which looked in the crystal first. It is clear that they announced
to each other what they saw, so that the influence of verbal sug-
gestion cannot be ruled out.^
p2. On 24 June 1901, Miss B. H. Grieve and Miss Catherine
Goad (who were attending college in Worcestershire) both looked
into the same crystal ball at the same time. Both of them saw
pyramids—a large one in front, and two or more behind ;
both saw
a train of camels passing from left to right ; both saw that one or
more of the camels carried a rider, while others were led ; both
noted that the train disappeared behind the pyramid.
Independent written accounts from the percipients were received
on 11 October 1901. Upon inquiry. Miss Grieve declared that each
of the percipients had written down descriptions of the vision as it
occurred, and that they did not speak while the vision lasted.
^
In addition to these two primary cases is the following tertiary
one :
t 3. Sometime previous to 1871, Miss A. Goodrich-Freer and a
friend looked together into a crystal and both saw an improbable
scene, which, when they returned home they found to have been
veridical.^
The above three cases all involve visions seen in crystals. In the
following cases crystal balls were not employed, but the visions
were referred to special gazing places, and were not regarded as
being in the normal environment. They are therefore included here
with the crystal visions.
s 4. On 5 April 1873, Captain Towns died in N.S. Wales. About
six weeks after his death, his wife, accompanied by a Miss Berthon,
saw the image of the dead man apparently reflected in the polished
surface of a wardrobe. Only the head, shoulders and part of the
1 Andrew Lang, The Making of Religion (1900), pp. 90-2.
2 Jowrw. ,S.P.i?. (1901-2), X. 134-6.
3 Theodore Besterman, Crystal-Gazing (1924), p. 124; from A. Goodrich-
Freer, Essays in Psychical Research (1899), pp. 127-8.
208 Hornell Hart avd Ella B. Hart [part
arms were showing. The face appeared wan and pale, as before his
death, and he wore a grey flannel jacket, in which he had been
accustomed to sleep. No portrait was present from which this
coiUd have been a reflection. Six persons, closely connected with
the deceased, then came or were called in succession into the room,
and each without suggestion from the others, recognised the image
as that of Captain Towns. Finally it faded gradually away.
An account of this case, dated 3 December 1885, was signed by
two of the percipients.^
p 5. In May 1904, in Switzerland, four ladies sat in front of a
mirror in company with a friend who was a non-professional medium.
The four percipients were Mrs A., her sister Mrs P., her daughter,
Miss A., and a Mrs H. All four of them saw in the mirror a vision
of the father of Mrs A. and Mrs P. The three who were acquainted
with him recognised him ; the other notes that the vision was
recognised by the others. The face of the vision formed over the
reflection of the medium, according to the accounts of all but Mrs
H. ; she saw it in a corner of the mirror, apart from the medium.
Miss A. says that the apparition smiled and nodded at them when
it was recognised. Mrs A., Mrs P., and Miss A. all saw a vision of
the sister of the two married women who had died three months
before. Mrs A. says that she saw this face two or three times,
smiling and looking intently at the percipients. Two other ap-
paritions are mentioned as having been seen by one or two of the
percipients.
The last vision was more elaborate. Three percipients agree
that they saw a hall, opening into a room, or a bay window, brilliantly
lighted ; the fourth refers to it as a ballroom brilliantly lighted.
All saw people moving about. Mrs P. and Mrs H. were unable to
recognise any of these, but both Mrs A. and Miss A. recognised the
figure of Mrs A. hejself, and of her son E., who was at that time in
London.
All four percipients submitted written accounts before the end
of the year.-
Collectively Perceived Apparitions of Living
Persons
In the crystal vision cases, perceptions of living and of dead persons
have been grouped together. The cases of collectively perceived
apparitions will be found in four groups : those of persons ascer-
tained to have been living at the time of the apparition ; those of
persons ascertained to have been at or near the point of death ;
^ F. W. H. Myers, Human Personality, ii. 62-3 ; from Phantasms of the
JAving, ii. 213-4.
2 JoNr>K S.P.R. (1905), xii. 17-21 ; Proc. 8.P.R. (1908-9), xxi. 463-7.
130] Visions and Apparitions 209
those not positively identified ; and those ascertained to have been
dead.
s 6. On 5 September 1867, Mr R. Mouat of Barnsbury, and his
friend, Mr R., both saw the apparition of a Rev. Mr H., who, at
the time, was in another part of the town. Both of them saw him
in the same part of the room ; both noted the melancholy look on
his face ;
both assumed that he was simply his ordinary self. But
after Mr R. had left, while Mr Mouat was looking at the apparition,
a clerk mentioned Mr H.'s name, whereupon the figure disappeared
in a second. The clerk then denied that Mr H. had been in the
office that day. This was later confirmed by Mr H.
It is stated that Mr Mouat wrote down his account of this
case " soon after the occurrence," and that Mr R. supplied to the
S.P.R. committee independent and precise corroboration of the facts
stated.^
While the above and case s 55 are the only reports of collectively
perceived apparitions of persons known to be living which fulfil
even the secondary standards of evidence, a number of tertiary
cases have been reported. These are presented in approximately
chronological order.
t 7. One evening, in or about the year 1858, in Montserrat, West
Indies, the apparition of Mr George Habershon was seen by Mrs
Annie Sturge and another young lady after he had left the house
and the door had been locked. At about the time the apparition
was seen he had been arguing with himself whether to go back to
the house.
Mrs Sturge wrote the account in 1884, with indirect confirmation
from Mrs Minnie Semper.
^
t 8. Mrs Sarah Jane Hall stated in writing in 1883 that in 1863
her own apparition was seen by herself, her husband, and two other
people.^
t9. In Cairo, in 1864, Mrs E. H. Elgee and a young woman
sleeping in the same room each independently at the same time saw
the apparition of an old friend of Mrs Elgee's, who at that time was
in England. Every detail of the figure's dress was noted. The
apparition pointed at Mrs Elgee's companion, who appeared terror-
stricken, and then retreated until it seemed to sink through a
closed door which was blocked by a settee. The companion next
day described the apparition as Mrs Elgee had seen it.
Four years later, the appearer was encountered, and recalled
that he was wishing intensely to talk with her at the tune she saw
his apparition. The account was written by Mrs Elgee in 1885.*
1 10. Mr R. P. Roberts, of Manchester, England, reported in
1 Phantasms of the Living, ii. 211-12 ; Proc. S.P.R. (1882-3), i. 14.5-0.
2 Phantasms of the Living, ii. 625-0. ^ Id., p. 217. * Id., pp. 239-41
.
210 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
1882 that when he was an apprentice his apparition had been seen
by three persons at a moment when he was actually at home eating
dinner. Just before his apparition was seen at the shop his employer
had wanted his presence there urgently, while he at the same time
at home had looked at the clock and had been startled to see (in-
correctly) that it was already time for him to be back.^
Collectively Perceived Apparitions of Persons
AT OR NEAR THE PoiNT OF DeATH
Here, as in the preceding group, no primary cases have been
found, and only one secondary case is available.
s 11. On 11 July 1879, fifty miles south of Indianapolis, Indiana,
Samuel S. Falkinburg and his five-year-old son, Arthur, both saw
the face of Falkinburg's father between them and the joists of the
ceiling. Within a few minutes of the time of this vision, the father
died suddenly in IndianapoHs, just after having been talking of his
son and grandson. Falkinburg submitted a signed statement in
1884, supported by an independent signed statement from his wife,
who had been present and had heard her son's exclamation at seeing
his grandfather's face.^
Here, again, less adequately evidenced cases are more numerous.
t 12. About 1840, according to a statement submitted by Mr C.
Colchester of Herts about 1882, he and his brother (then aged about
six and five years) saw an apparition of their grandmother in Mon-
treal, C'anada, on the same evening when she died in England. They
were not told until years later of the fact that their mother also had
seen an apj^arition of the grandmother on that same evening.^
1 13. On IG April 1845, Phillip Weld, nephew of Cardinal Weld,
was drowned in Hertfordshire. At the very hour when this fatal
accident occurred, the boy's father and sister both saw an apparition
of Phillip, accompanied by two other figures, one of which was later
identified from a picture as St Stanislaus Kostka. The father
observed that the apparition of his son was transparent.
An account of this case was written about 1868 by the sister.
A quite independent account, derived from the man who broke the
news of the boy's death to the father, was written out in 1872, and
agrees in essential points.*
t 14. At Clapham, at a date not stated, a young woman, her
mother and her brother all saw what appeared to be the absent
sister of the two young people. The narrator pursued the apparition,
1 Proc. S.P.R. (1882-.3). i. 1.35-6. - Phantasms of the Living, ii. 248-50.
^ Proc. S.P.R. (1882-3), i. 130.
^ Phantasms of the Living, ii. 241-4 ; Frederick George Lee, Glimpses of the
Supernatural {lal^y),
130] Visions and Apparitions 211
noted details of her costume, finally overtook her, tried to grasp her,
but took hold of nothing. Next day it was learned that the appearer
had drowned herself at about the time her apparition was seen.^
Unidentified (or Doubtfully Identified) Apparitions
Collectively Perceived
Several of the individuals represented by the apparitions whose
identity was unknown or only surmised, were presumably dead at
the time of the appearances recorded in this group. Others may
have been living. In order to avoid any question as to classification,
these collective apparitions of persons whose vital status is doubtful
have been grouped here.
s 15. During a midday dinner in 1884, a mother and daughter,
Mrs Greifenberg and Mrs Erni-Greifenberg both saw a large white
Angora cat with green eyes under the table. The cat marched round
the table, went noiselessly out the door and half-way down a passage,
turned, stared at the two women, and then dissolved away under
their eyes. The same apparitional cat went through the same
performance a year later in Leipzig.
A statement written by the daughter and signed by both per-
cipients was filed in 1890."^
p 16. On 16 May 1888, Miss A. Goodrich-Freer, who had published
a report of some systematic experiments in crystal vision in the
Proceedings, and who had been making some systematic experiments
in telepathy, was present at an evening entertainment with Miss
H. Late in the evening Miss H. was seized with faintness. Miss
Goodrich-Freer followed her into another room, and was soon seated
on the floor, holding her unconscious head on her knee. After some
minutes of unconsciousness. Miss H. seized her hand and uttered a
sudden exclamation. Following the direction of her eyes. Miss
Goodrich-Freer saw a figure, standing a few feet distant, directly
facing them and looking down at H. The figure was not in evening
dress, as all the guests at the entertainment were. The vision lasted
only a moment.
Nothing was said at the time by either Miss H. or Miss Goodrich-
Freer, and the subject was not even alluded to until some months
later. On 9 November following, Miss H., without any remark,
handed to Miss Goodrich-Freer a portrait of the subject of the vision.
Miss Goodrich-Freer immediately exclaimed, Just so, the broad
forehead." Miss H. wondered what this meant, but said nothing.
Some few weeks later Miss H. narrated her experience of 16 May
to Mr Myers, and then Miss Goodrich-Freer, in the hearing of Miss
H., described the apparition, and said :
" The broad forehead
especially struck me." Each percipient drew independently a plan
1 Plmntasms of the Living, ii. 615-6. 2 p^^c, S.P.R. (1894), x. 30.5-6.
212 Horn ell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
of the room, showing the position of the figure to have been exactly
the same in both visions.
Miss Goodrich-Freer kept a diary, in which cases of this sort were
recorded. The account from which the above is taken, appeared
in an article of hers published on 25 October 1889. Miss H. also
made a written statement of her part in the experience. Whether
the appearer was living or dead was not stated.^
p 17. On 19 April 1890, in Manchester, England, Mr and Mrs
Barber were approaching their own house at about sunset, while
the light was still good. When they were about six yards from the
gate, Mr Barber saw a woman pass through it and walk up the path
to the house. Mrs Barber saw the figure when it was about a yard
inside the gate. Almost simultaneously they exclaimed :
" Who
is that ?
" The figure appeared entirely natural, commonplace and
substantial. Mrs Barber observed that the woman had on a grey
dress ; Mr Barber noted a plaid shawl and a grey-black bonnet
with a bit of colour in it. The figure moved quietly up the walk
and then up the two steps to the door. Mr Barber hurried forward
with his latchkey, but when he was within four yards, the apparition
disappeared through the locked door before their eyes. Mr Barber
then unlocked and opened the door, and they made a careful search
of the house (for which the natural daylight was still sufficient).
Nothing could be found. The figure was not recognised.
Independent written accounts were submitted by Mrs and Mr
Barber on 21 and 30 January 1891, and F. W. H. Myers interviewed
them on 1 August 1891.^
s 18. In, or about, 1892, Lady B. and her daughter were sleeping
in the same room in London. In the middle of the night both ladies
suddenly started up wide awake, and saw a female figure in a white
garment with dark curly hair hanging down the back. The figure
was standing in front of the fireplace, over which was a mirror.
Lady B. saw the face in quarter profile, the head intercepting its
own reflection in the mirror. Miss B. saw the back of the figure
and its long dark hair ; the face was not visible directly, but was
clearly seen reflected in the mirror. Both percipients immediately
sprang out of bed to the doors, which were found locked. On
turning round again, the figure had disappeared.
Both of these percipients, and a cousin, stated that when sleeping
in a room adjoining the one just mentioned they repeatedly heard
footsteps as of a person approaching the door, the door handle
would be turned or shaken, and the footsteps would proceed up-
stairs. Persistent investigation could find no normal explanation
for these noises.
1 Proc. S.P.R. (1889-90), vi. 370-1.
^Jmirtt. S.P.R. (1893-4), vi. 22-5 ; Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxiii. 372-3.
130] Visions and Apparitions 213
The accounts of these percipients were signed by them as taken
down by Mr T. Barkworth, in 1893.1
s 19. On the night of 1 November 1889, between 9.30 and 10 p.m.,
three Du Cane sisters all saw the apparition of a man. They had
entered their bedroom and were searching for matches to light the
gas when all three of them saw the figm'e and cried out at the same
moment. Louisa Du Cane described the appearance as that of a
young man, of middle height, dressed in dark clothes and wearing
a peaked hat. His face was very pale, and his eyes downcast as
though deep in thought. He had a dark moustache.^ Although
the room was too dark for the sisters to see each others' faces, that
of the apparition was slightly luminous, so that the features could
be distinguished clearly. Louisa's two sisters first caught sight of
the apparition in a mirror, but it glided within a few inches of them
and suddenly vanished. A fourth sister had her face turned away
and did not see the apparition, but all four agree that they distinctly
felt a cold air which seemed to accompany it. The figure was not
recognised.
Louisa wrote an account of this experience on 31 July 1891,
which the other three sisters signed. Mrs Sidgwick later called on
them to investigate the case.^
p20. In August 1891, Agnes McCaskill and her cousin. Miss
L. v., were sleeping in a room in Cassel, Germany. The room was
supposed to be haunted by an old German knight who had hanged
himself there, and whose portrait in stained glass formed one of the
windows. The apparition was supposed to come once in ten years,
and this night was supposed to be one of the decaimiversaries. At,
or a little after midnight, Miss V. saw a strange light appear, and
then there seemed to emerge from the wall or the stained window
a very tall figure, completely draped in white, with no part of the
face exposed except green glittering eyes. Miss V. screamed, and
Miss McCaskiU turned and saw the figure. The apparition was
clearly defined, but the wallpaper and other objects could be seen
through it. It moved over to Miss McCaskill's bed, making no
sound on the polished floor. As it came close to her bed she seized
it. She seemed to take hold of something soft, fike flimsy drapery,
but whatever it was seemed dragged from her and the thing
literally sank into the floor, about an arm's length from the bed.
Both percipients submitted written accounts in July 1892.
Investigation by Miss Johnson seems to support the written accounts
in ruling out the possibility that some human being other than the
percipients could have been in the room.^
^ Journ. iS.P.B. {ISmA), Yi. U5-6.
2 Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxiii. 367-70.
3 Joiirn. S.P.R. (1893-4), vi. 135-6.
214 Horn ell Hart a nd Ella B. Hart [part
While the above case fulfils the technical requirements for in-
clusion in the primary group, it strikes the writers as being less
plausible than case s 19 and other secondary cases.
p 21. On 7 May 1892, about quarter to six in the afternoon, near
St. Boswells, England, Miss Louisa Scott was walking along a road
between two very thick hedges, with wide fields on either side.
She saw advancing towards her a tall man, dressed in a long black
coat, whom she took to be a clergyman. She looked away for a
moment, and on looking back was greatly surprised to find that he
had gone from sight. There was no place for him to have gone, and
she stood for several minutes looking backwards and forwards into
the fields and in all directions. She then was surprised to see her
sister, Miss M. W. Scott, turn the corner a little higher up the road
and commence running down a little hill which was there. Almost
immediately she came to a sudden halt, and Louisa saw her begin
searching around, as she herself had done. Then she approached
Louisa and said : Where on earth is that man who was standing
only about ten feet from you ?
"
It developed that Miss M. E. Scott had started to run, because
she was a little late, but had perceived a tall man dressed in black
walking at a moderate pace, and not wishing to run past him, had
stopped. The figure turned the corner of the road, but was still
distinctly defined between the hedges. Then, while she was looking
directly at him, he instantly vanished. It will be noted that the
sisters saw the figure successively, not simultaneously.
Toward the end of July, at about the same hour, Miss M. E. Scott
was traversing the same spot with another sister. The former
observed a dark figure approaching, and exclaimed :
" Oh, I do
believe that is our man. I won't remove my eyes from him !
"
She saw the entire figure. It was dressed wholly in black garments,
consisting of a long coat, gaiters and knee-breeches. The legs were
very thin. Round the throat was a wide white cravat ; on the head
was a low-crowned hat. The face, of which only the profile was
seen, was exceedingly thin and deadly pale. The sister saw only
the head and to below the shoulders. Both kept their eyes on the
apparition until it seemed to fade away towards the bank on the
right side of the road. " Frantic " search failed to discover any sign
of the vanished figure.
On 12 June 1893, Miss M. E. Scott saw it again, but this time she
was alone. Thinking at first that the figure was a woman she wanted
to see, she hurried after it. Finding that it was the now familiar
apparition, she pursued it boldly, but although the man appeared
to be walking slowly she could get no closer than within a few yards,
for he seemed to float or skim away. Presently he stopped, turned
and gazed at her with a vacant expression. He was dressed as
130] Visions and Apparitions 215
before, with the same pallid features. She noted that he had on
black silk stockings and shoe-buckles. Finally, he moved on and
faded from view at the usual spot by the hedge on the right.
Miss Scott reported that at about the same time when she and
her sisters had their experiences, two girls from the village, stoppmg
by the road to pick berries, had seen an apparition of exactly the
same description gazing intently at them. They fled in terror, but
looked back and saw the figure gradually fade away. Accordmg
to their account his garments were enveloped in a white filmy sheet
or vapour. Two years previously two boys were reported to have
had a similar experience. Legend told of a child murdered close by.
The costume of the apparition was found to be that of a clergyman
of the previous century.
Written accounts were submitted within a year of the collective
experience by Miss M. E. and Miss Louisa Scott. The other sister
approved the account in which she was involved, but felt that a
written statement from herself would not be worth while. The
apparition seen on 12 June was reported on 14 June of the same
year.^
In addition to the foregoing, the following less adequately authen-
ticated cases may be recorded. .
t 22. In 1853, the Rev. and Mrs D. W. Gwynne, awaking m their
locked room, both saw a draped phantom figure passing across the
foot of the bed. When the Phantom raised its arm, the mght-light
went out, but Mr Gwynne still saw the figure. Mrs Gwynne heard
its garments rustle.
The two percipients each submitted an independent signed
account in 1884.^
t23. In 1857, in Prince Edward Island, two women saw an
apparition of a woman with a check shawl crossed over her bosom,
holding a baby and surrounded by a supernormal light. In 1858,
a Mrs Pennee and her little daughter saw the same apparition.
In 1877 Mrs Pennee was consulted by the bishop of that locality
relative to a similar apparition seen by the then occupants. Super-
normal shrieks and moans were also heard collectively in the same
house.
A written account of these phenomena was recorded by Mrs
Pennee in 1884.3
Collectively Perceived Apparitions of Persons
Known to be Dead
In case p 5, at least one of the apparitions seen collectively m
the mirror was that of a person known to have died previously. In
1 Jo^irn. S.P.R. (1893-4), vi. 146-.50. - Phantasms of the Living, ii. 202-3.
^Proc. S.P.R. (1889-90), vi. 60-2.
216 Hornell Hart mid Ella B. Hart [part
case s 4, the apparition seen in the polished surface of the wardrobe
represented a person known to be dead. In case t 13, the figure of
St Stanislaus (who of course was dead) was alleged to have been
collectively perceived with the figure of the boy who was drowned.
Among the unrecognised or doubtfully recognised cases (numbers
s 15 to t 23) it is probable that several represented persons who were
dead. In the following cases, only apparitions of persons known to
have been dead at the time are included.
s 24. In September 1839, Corporal McQueen and Private Watson
were both sleeping in the same quarters in Gibraltar. Watson saw
someone sitting on the foot of McQueen's bed, and called out that
fact to him. McQueen saw the figure rise and come to the head of
his bed. He recognised it as the figure of the wife of a comrade,
dressed in the grave clothes in which he had laid her in her colfin.
The apparition gave him evidential information in proof of her
identity and made him promise to warn her husband against an
evil course he was pursuing. She then gradually faded out.
The story of this event became current in the barracks early the
next day. The Rev. W. Brown and Captain M. Emmett called
McQueen and Watson separately, and cross questioned each strictly,
and felt satisfied of their sincerity. The captain took notes of the
inquiry, from which in 1854 he wrote out a full account which was
submitted in evidence.^
s 25. In March 1846, the wife and two adult daughters of Dr R.,
in their home in West Philadelphia, Pa., all saw at the same time
an apparition which they instantly and independently recognised
as Dr R.'s mother, who had died ten years before. The apparition
conformed with a promise made by the old lady before her death,
and coincided with the purchase of a house by her son along lines
which she had advised.
That same evening the ladies related their experience to the Rev.
Y. He later told the story to Robert Dale Owen. Mr Owen then
secured an account of the story direct from the elder daughter, and
afterwards secured confirmation from the mother. The direct
accounts from the percipients tallied exactly with the story as it
had been told by Mr Y. Both the mother and the daughter re-
collected the precise dress of the apparition and their accounts
agreed entirely that the apparition had crossed the room, approached
a portrait of Dr R., fingered to look at it, recrossed to the door, and
inexplicably vanished.
^
s 26. On Christmas Eve 1869, after having locked their bedroom
door and retired, both Mr and Mrs P. saw an apparition of a naval
1 Joum. 8.P.R. (1893-4), vi. 179-81.
2 Robert Dale Owen, The Debatable Land (1871), 404-8; Proc. S.P.R.
(1889-90), vi. 32-3.
130] Visions and Apparitions 217
officer, whom Mr P. recognised as his father. The apparition spoke
his son's name reproachfully, cast a deep shadow as it moved past
a lamp, and " disappeared, as it were, into the wall." The door of
the room was found to be still locked. Mr P. later admitted to his
wife that at the time when the apparition occurred he had been
intending to take the advice of a man who would certainly have led
him to ruin or perhaps to disgrace.
Mrs P. wrote an account of this experience in 1885, which Mr P.
certified. Two friends signed a statement that Mrs P. had told
them the same narrative some years previously.^
s 27. On one day in December 1884, three children (all aged
between 10 and 12) twice saw collectively an apparition of a tall
woman dressed in black. In July 1885, a sister of two of these
children saw the apparition and recognised it as the dead wife of an
uncle who was living in the house. She saw the apparition repeatedly
afterwards, and it was seen individually also by two other members
of the household. Collective auditory hallucinations were also
reported. The apparition was generally seen, and the noises heard,
in or about the uncle's bedroom and dressing-room, and they ceased
about February 1886, when he moved away from the house. In
July 1886, when he was again visiting there, the children again
reported seeing the aunt's apparition, and their mother and grand-
parents confirmed their accounts.
Written statements were secured from all the percipients in or
about November 1891. Sir Oliver Lodge interviewed the principal
witnesses in October 1891.^
s 28. In 1886, in Rio de Janeiro, Senhor Ulysses J. C. Cabral
upon lying down after nursing a friend, had a feeling of unbounded
joy, and felt as if some one were holding his head and placing
something around it. Donna Fehciana Dias, sitting where she
could not see him, in the next room, said : "I see at your bedside
a spirit child clothed in white. She places on your head a crown of
roses. She says her name is Deolinda, and she comes to thank you
for the kindness and charity with which you behaved to her." Only
then did Senhor Cabral recall that that day was the anniversary
of the death of a child named Deolinda, whom he had befriended,
unbeknown to any of his friends.
The above facts were given in a letter by Senhor Cabral to Pro-
fessor Alfred Alexander, at the request of the latter, in 1892. Con-
firmatory letters were written in that year by three other members
of the household who were conversant with the event. Professor
Alexander also interviewed Cabral and the others personally.^
s 29. Julia Murray died in Yonkers, N.Y., on 23 March 1901.
^Proc. S.P.B. (1889-90), vi. 26-9. ^ Proc. S.P.P. (1894), x. 353-6.
3 Id., pp. 383-5.
218 Horn ell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
At about 3 a.m. the next morning, seven relatives and friends (all
Catholics) each saw and recognised an apparition of the deceased
which came into view near a picture of the Virgin Mary, on the wall
of a room next to the one where the body lay. Katie Cain, Rose
Kearne and Mrs Corbalis, when interviewed separately, all agreed
on the following facts : a wreath or crown (of " flowers," " leaves
and flowers,"' or "evergreens") was on the head; rosary beads
hung from the hands, which were crossed on the breast or in a
position of prayer, or both successively ; the figure wore a robe
which ended at the bottom in clouds. Points mentioned by two,
but not all three of the percipients interviewed were as follows :
The apparition was seen in profile ; the hair was hanging down the
back ; the robe was white ; the figure appeared to be solid (or was
seen as plainly as in life) ; it faded toward the ceiling, or disappeared
slowly through the ceiling.
The newspapers made a great sensation about these events.
James H. Hyslop heard about it and interviewed Mrs Corbalis on
30 March, and Katie Cain and Rosie Kearns on 5 April 1901, but
did not secure signed statements from them.^
p 30. On Sunday, 28 June 1903, a little boy lay dying in a York-
shire town. His mother had died some years previously. At the
foot of the bed watched his eldest sister and a friend of his mother.
At about 9 o'clock the boy was unconscious. Suddenly the friend
saw the mother distinctly, bending over her boy with a look of
intense love and longing, but not seeming to notice the two watchers.
The apparition was in her ordinary dress, as when living, and was
entirely natural in her appearance. After a minute or two she
quietly and suddenly was not there.
The friend said nothing to the sister at the time. Two days later
the boy died. After they had performed the last offices to the body,
the sister and friend were standing as they had two days before.
The friend said, " I had a strange experience on Sunday evening
here." The sister quickly replied :
" Yes, mother was here ; I saw
her." (According to a somewhat earlier verbal account she said :
" Yes, I know, you saw mother. I saw her too ; she came and kissed
Hughey.")
The above account is based on a written statement by the friend
on 9 December 1903, and signed by both her and the sister. On
29 November the Rev. Alfred Holborn had reported the case as it
had been related to him by the friend in substantially the same
form. 2
s 31. Horace Traubel, poet and intimate friend and biographer
of Walt Whitman, died on 8 September 1919, at Bon Echo, Ontario.
1 Jourri. Amer. S.P.R. (1914), viii. 584-92.
-Jo«™. -S.P.i?. (1903-4), xi. 185-7.
130] "Visions and Apparitions 219
About 3 a.m., two days before his death, Lt.-Col. L. Moore Cosgrave
noticed that Traubel's eyes remained riveted on a point some three
feet above the bed in a dark portion of the room. Slowly a light
haze appeared there, spread until it assumed the form of Walt
Whitman, standing beside the bed, a rough tweed jacket on, an old
felt hat upon his head and his right hand in his pocket. He was
smiling down at Traubel. He nodded twice. Traubel said : "There
is Walt !
" The apparition then passed through the bed toward
Cosgrave. It appeared to touch his hand (which was in his pocket)
and Cosgrave distinctly felt as tliough he had touched a low electric
charge. The apparition then smiled at Traiibel and passed from
sight.
Cosgrave and Traubel both told this experience, on 6 September,
to Mrs Flora MacDonald Denison, who made an entry that same day
in her diary. A copy of this entry was submitted in evidence.
Colonel Cosgrave also made note of the experience. In June 1920
he wrote two letters to Walter F. Prince, giving the details embodied
in the above account.^
s 32. On Easter Monday, 1920, a State Tax Commissioner in a
New England State committed suicide. He had been greatly
devoted to a church of which he was senior warden. On the next
Sunday morning, when the offering was brought to the chancel
steps by the new warden and his associate, the rector and two
parishioners, in widely separated parts of the church, saw an ap-
parition of the suicide at his usual place near the other two wardens.
He was as life-like and realistic to each of the three percipients as on
any Sunday of the thirty years during which he had officiated there.
One of the Parishioner percipients wrote out an account, some
seven or eight years later, and this account was assented to as
correct by the rector.^
s 33. On 12 October 1927, at about 7 p.m., a young man passed
a stile near a site where a house had stood in which a reputed miser
was supposed to have buried his money. The miser had died in
1900, and the young man knew that two youths had been reported
to have seen his apparition sitting on the stile. On this evening
the youth himself saw the apparition, and when he passed a quarter
of an hour later with a young lady friend, they both saw it, but the
girl did not know whom it represented until told later. The young
man saw the apparition again within a month. The independent
accounts of both the youth and the girl agree that they saw an
extremely short man, with grey or white hair, wearing a felt or
slouch hat, and holding a stick in his hand.
The two main percipients were known personally to Mr and Mrs
1 Walter F. Prince, Noted Wittiesses, 144-50.
"Journ. Amer. 8.P.R. (1928), xxii. 429-30.
N
220 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
W. H. Salter. Mr Salter interviewed them and obtained their
independent written and signed accounts. Witnesses, to whom they
told their experience immediately after it occurred, confirmed that
fact. The possibility that some normal person was sitting on the
stile was regarded by Mr Salter as being ruled out by the fact that
the night was too cold for anyone normally to be there.
^
p 34. In June 1931, a chimney-sweep named Samuel Bull died
of cancer in Ramsbury, Wilts., England, leaving an aged invalid
wife and a grandson, James Bull, twenty-one years of age, living
in the cottage where he died. In August 1931, a married daughter,
Mrs Edwards, came with her five children and her husband to live
with them.
Sometime in or after February 1932, Mrs Edwards saw the de-
ceased man ascend stairs and pass through a door, which was shut,
into the room in which he died, and in which his widow had been
lying for some time, but which was then shut up and unused. Almost
immediately after Mrs Edwards saw the apparition, James Bull also
saw it.
Later all the members of the family together saw the apparition.
Even the smallest girl (aged 5 ?) recognised it as " grandpa Bull."
The appearances continued at frequent intervals from that time
until about 9 April. Whenever the apparition was seen, all the
persons present were able to see it.
The apparition seemed solid, and twice laid his hand on the brow
of Mrs Bull. Once she heard him call her " Jane." On one occasion
the figure was visible continuously for a period thought to have
been a half-hour. It always appeared to be quite life-like. The
features were clearly recognised. Mrs Edwards spoke of noting the
appearance of the hands, with the knuckles seeming to be protruding
through the skin. He was dressed as he usually had been in the
evenings when he had finished work. A muffler which he was
wearing was noted as being different in colour from the rest of the
clothes. Apparently the figure was self-luminous, though contra-
dictory statements were made on this point. He was seen in day-
light as well as by artificial light.
The case was originally reported by the local vicar, the Rev. G. H.
Hackett. Through him Lord Selborne and Admiral Hyde Parker
heard of the case as early as 3 April 1932. Sometime between 7
and 11 April the vicar, at Admiral Parker's request, visited the
family and put to Mrs Edwards a series of questions covering the
reported phenomena, which she answered perfectly consistently
with earlier statements made by the family. On 14 April, Admiral
Parker, Mr Hackett, Lord Balfour and Mr Piddington called at the
cottage and interviewed Mrs Edwards and Mrs Bull, who confirmed
1 Journ. S.P.R. (1928), xxiv. 227-31.
130] Visions and Apparitions 221
the information previously supplied. On 31 May 1932, the vicar
visited the family and secured the signatures of Mr and Mrs Edwards
to the statement of facts which he had previously secured from
them.^
The tertiary cases of this type are as follow :
t 35. In 1864, Miss Harriet Pearson was on her death bed in the
house in which had died in 1858 her sister Ann, to whom she was
greatly attached. On the night before Harriet died, an apparition
of Ann, wrapped in an old shawl and wearing a wig and an old
black cap was seen jointly by three women who were staying in the
house and also by the dying woman. One of the percipients wrote
an account in 1888. A servant who was present in the house when
these events occurred, signed a confirmatory statement.^
t 36. In 1874, in Silima, Malta, an apparition of Julia H. was seen
on the night following her burial by her thirteen-year-old daughter,
her husband, and a nurse. The appearance was that of the mother
as she usually came to see her daughter the last thing at night,
dressed in a white flannel dressing-gown trimmed with a band of
scarlet braid, and her long hair loose. The daughter wrote an account
in 1889, and her stepmother signed a statement that she had heard
the same story from the girl's father.^
t 37. On 1 July 1893, Miss F. Atkinson and a friend saw in a
church an apparition of an old man whose grave they had just
visited. They had just been commenting on the failure of the old
man's executors to put in a memorial window for which he had
provided. Miss Atkinson did not believe in apparitions, but she
saw the details of his person and costume with complete distinctness,
and then saw him vanish while her eyes were still directly fixed on
him. The friend told Miss Atkinson that the same old man had
been haunting her family in a very persistent and troublesome way.
The above facts were stated in letters written by Miss Atkinson on
5 and 9 November 1893. The friend declined to give an independent
account.*
t 38. In 1906, in Lyons, France, Monsieur Ballet-Gallifet and
his wife both saw an apparition of her father. The dog seems to
have seen the figure first. The apparition limped as the father had
done. A gas light was feebly visible through the figure. Monsieur
Ballet-GalUfet sent his written account of this experience to Flam-
marion in 1921. A month later, Madame T. Eougier secured a
spontaneous verbal statement from him which agreed with the latter,
and later she also secured verbal confirmation from the wife.^
1 Journ. S.P.R. (1932), xxvii. 297-303. ^ p^^c. S.P.R. (1889-90), vi. 20-2.
3 7tZ. (1888-9), V. 440-1.
*Jour>i. S.P.R. (1893-4), vi. 230-1 ; Proc. S.P.R. (1894), x. 320.
^ CamiUe Mammarion, Death and its Mystery : After Death (1923), 17-19.
222 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
t39. On 7 Septembor 1927, Mr D. L. Dadirrian, who is nearly
blind, heard footsteps passing along a path around the porch of
his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., at the same moment when
his cousin heard nothing but saw an apparition of Mr Dadirrian's
dead wife along the path where the husband was hearing the foot-
steps. Malcolm Bird secured Mr Dadirrian's assent to his account
of these facts, and a servant testified that the cousin had told the
experience in terms corresponding with it.^
Apparitions Corresponding with Deliberate
Attempts to Produce Them
Thus far in this study, only apparitions perceived by two or more
other individuals have been included. In these cases, it may be
said that each of the apparitions was seen from the outside by two
or more people. Cases will now be presented in which given appari-
tions were perceived both from the outside and the inside—where
the apjDearer as well as the percipient was aware of the appearance.
This awareness varies greatly in degree ;
marginal as well as full-
fledged cases will be cited.
s 40. In 1878, a friend of W. Stainton Moses, without informing
him in advance, succeeded in projecting an apparition of himself
into a chair in Moses's room, some miles distant in London. The
apparition was in ordinary garments ; it remained for some time
and then faded away. A few weeks later, again without warning,
the experimenter produced his apparition. This time Moses ques-
tioned the figure on a subject which was under warm discussion
between them at the time. In neither of these experiments was
the appearer able to recall having been conscious of his own presence
in Mr Moses's room.
The account of this experiment was written down by the appearer
about one year after it occurred. The percipient pronounced it
correct four years later, although unable to locate notes which he
thinlvs were made at the time.^
s 41. On a certain Sunday evening late in 1881, Mr S. H. Beard
determined " with the whole force of his being," that he would make
his spiritual presence perceptible in the front bedroom on the
second floor of a house in London in which slept two ladies of his
acquaintance. Miss L. S. and Miss E. C. Verity. He was living
about three miles away. At that hour the elder of the two ladies
(aged 25) was much terrified by perceiving Mr Beard distinctly
standing by her bedside. When the apparition advanced towards
her she screamed :
" There is S." This awakened her sister (aged 11)
who also saw the apparition. Both sisters were certain that the
1 Joimi. Amer. S.P.R. (1928), xxii. 430-32.
'^
F/uDtiusms of the Living, i. lOS-4:.
130] Visions and Apparitioris 223
figure was in eveuiiig dress, and that it stood in one particular spot
in the room. The gas was burning low, and the phantasmal figure
is reported to have been seen with far more clearness that a real
figure would have been.
The elder sister spoke of her experience spontaneously to Mr
Beard when he called four days later, and before he had mentioned
his experiment. He made an entry in an almanac diary within a
week or so, and submitted a written account based on it later. The
two sisters who saw the apparition, and a third sister whom they
awakened to tell about it, all submitted signed statements of their
experience about 14 months after the event occurred.^
p 42. On 1 December 1882, at 9.30 p.m., in Southall, England,
Mr S. H. Beard sat in a room alone and endeavoured strongly to
fix his mind upon the interior of a house at Kew, in which resided
his friend. Miss Verity, and her two sisters. He fell into a " mes-
meric sleep " in which he continued to be conscious, but could not
move his limbs. When he had regained his normal state at 10 p.m.,
he made a written memorandum of his experiment, including the
statement that while concentrating he seemed to himself to be
actually in the house.
When he went to bed on this same night, he determined that he
would make his spiritual presence perceptible to the inmates of the
front bedroom of the above-mentioned house.
The next day he visited his friends in Kew, and fomid there a
married sister of Miss Verity—Mrs H. L., whom he had met only once
before, two years previously, and then very briefly. During the con-
versation, although he had asked her no question on such a subject,
she told him that she had seen him distinctly twice on the previous
night. She had slept in the front bedroom. At about 9.30 she had
seen him walking before her down a hallway. At about 12 o'clock,
while she was still awake, the door opened, and he entered, walked
round to the bedside, and there stood with one foot on the ground
and the other knee resting on a chair. He then took her hair into
his hand, after which he took her hand in his, and looked very
intently into the palm. She said to him :
" You need not look at
the lines, for I never had any trouble." She then awoke her sister,
and told her of the apparition.
Immediately upon hearing this account, Mr Beard took from his
pocket the memorandum which he had made the night before, and
showed it to some of the persons present. Independent statements
were written and signed by Mr Beard, Mrs L., and the sister. Miss
Verity, who was awakened after the apparition . All the accounts agree
.
They appear to have been submitted within a year of the occur-
rence, although, as given in the printed account, they are not dated.
1 Phantasms of the Living, i. 104-6. ^ Id., i. 106-8.
224 Hornell Hart and Ella. B. Hart [part
p 43. On 22 March 1884, Mr S. H. Beard posted a letter to Mr
Edmund Giirney, stating that he was going to attempt, on that
night, to make his (spiritual) presence perceptible at the home of
his friend. Miss L. S. Verity. Part of his intention was to produce
the impression of touching the percipient's hair. On 2 April he
called upon Miss Verity, and she volunteered the information,
without any suggestion on his part, that on 22 March, at about
-midnight, while she was quite widely awake, she had seen a most
vivid and unmistakable apparition of him come towards her and
stroke her hair. Thereupon she dictated and signed a statement
describing her experience. Her sister also signed a statement to
the elfect that she remembered L. S. telling her, before Mr Beard
called, that she had seen Mr Beard and that he had touched her hair.^
The Mr S. H. Beard of these experiments was a member of the
Stock Exchange, well known to Sir Wm. Barrett and to friends of
W. T. Stead as a man of high character.^
p 44. The Rev. C. Godfrey, of Eastbourne, England had been
reading a first edition copy of Phantastns of the Living. On the
night of 15 November 1886, he determined to appear if possible to
his friend Mrs —. He had never dropped the slightest hint of any
such intention, and had not even mentioned the subject to her. He
set to work, with all the volitional energy which he possessed, to
stand at the foot of her bed. He endeavoured to translate himself,
spiritually, into her room, and to attract her attention while standing
there. After sustaining this effort for perhaps eight minutes, he
fell asleep. He then dreamed that he was meeting the lady on the
next morning and asking her if she had seen him last night. She
replied in the dream that she had, and that she had been sitting
beside him. He then awoke and found that it was 3.40 a.m. He
immediately made a brief written memorandum.
On 17 November, Mr Godfrey went to see someone residing in
the same house as Mrs —. As he was leaving she called out from
the window that she had something special to tell him. Later in
the day she called, and with no prompting gave him an account of
the following experience. At about half-past 3 o'clock on the
morning of 16 November, she awoke with a start and with the idea
that someone had come into the room. She heard a curious sound,
but fancied it might be the birds in the ivy outside. She felt so
restless that she lit a candle and went downstairs for some soda-
water. As she returned, when she reached the bottom of the stairs,
she saw Mr Godfrey's figure, on the landing, about eleven steps up.
It was quite distinct and life-hke at first, though she remembered
1 Phantasms of the Living, i. 108-9.
2 W. T. Stead, Meal Ghost Stories (1921), p. 72 ; Barrett, Threshold of the
Unseen (1918), 153.
130] Visions and Apjxirifions 225
noticing only the upper part of the body. He was dressed in his
usual style, and with an expression on his face that she had noticed
when he had been looking very earnestly at anything. He stood
there, and she held up the candle and gazed at him for three or four
seconds. Then, as she passed up the staircase, the apparition grew
more and more shadowy, and finally faded away. Soon after she
got upstairs again, the street lamps were put out, which usually
occurred at about 3.45.
Mr Godfrey wrote out an account of his experience in a letter to
Mr Podmore on 17 November 1886, including a written account
by the percipient.^ On 22 November 1886, Mr Podmore interviewed
both the appearer and the percipient, and noted their viva voce
account. Details from these different accounts have been combined
in the above version.^
p 45. On 7 December 1886, at the suggestion of Mr Podmore,
but without giving Mrs — any reason to expect it, Mr Godfrey
repeated the experiment. While undressing, he concentrated his
attention on the percipient. Then, for some ten minutes after
getting into bed, he devoted intense effort to transporting himself
(spiritually) to her presence, and to making his presence felt both
by voice and by placing his hand upon her head. He then fell asleep,
and, as in the case previous, dreamed that he met her on the next day,
asked her if she had seen him, and was told that she had seen hmi
indistinctly.
Next morning, her first words on seeing him were (laughmgly)
" Well, I saw you last night anyway." According to her written
account, she retired at 10.30 on 7 December. Suddenly she heard
a voice say " Wake," and felt a hand rest on the upper side of her
head. She became wide awake in a second and distinctly saw a
figure leaning over her. The only light in the room was from the
street lamp, which made a long line on the wall over the wash-
stand. This fine of light was partly obscured by the figure. She
turned round and the hand seemed to slip from her head and rest
on the pillow. There seemed to be a mist before the face of the
apparition, but she saw its outline and recognised it and the appear-
ance of the shoulders as being those of Mr Godfrey. During the
occurrence, she heard a curious sound, something like a Jew"s harp,
and felt cold air streaming through the room. The time when the
apparition occurred was about 12.30.
Written accounts by both the appearer and the percipient were
sent in on 8 December 1886.^
1 The text gives this date as 16 November, but that is inconsistent with
the letter itself.
2 Pluiiitasiiis of the Living (1886. Late copy of lirst edition), i. Ixxxi-lxxxiii.
* Phantasms of the Living (1886. Late copy of first edition), i. Ixxxiii-
Ixxxiv. These cases appear also in Myers, Human Personality, i. 688-9U.
226 Hotiiell Hart mul Ella B. Harl [part
s 16. On 5 July 1887, Mr B. F. Sinclair after undressing, but
before going to bed in New York City, " willed " himself to be in
Lakewood, N.J., at home to see if lie could see his wife and make her
see him. After a Kttle he seemed to himself to be standing in her
room before the bed, and saw her lying there. On that same night,
between 8.30 and 9.0 p.m., his wife, just before retiring, saw him
standing " as plain as could be "in front of the bed. The apparition
was not in night clothes, but appeared as if dressed in a suit of clothes
which actually was hanging in the closet at home. His face was set
as if he were either dead or trying to accomplish something which
was beyond him.
In the morning the wife related this experience to her son. When
the husband returned, she told him about it before he mentioned
his experiment. Independent written accounts by the husband,
wife and son were filed in 1894 ; Dr M. L. Holbrook asserted at that
time that he had known about it " for years." ^
s 47. At least seven years before the record of the following
experience was written out in 1907, the man who wrote it was away
from home. He wakened at one a.m. and saw his wife standing at
the foot of his bed, in the dress which she ordinarily wore about the
house in the mornings. She seemed perfectly normal. He exclaimed,
" What are you doing here ?
" She replied, " I thought I would
come out and see how you are getting along." She walked around
from the foot of the bed, bent over, kissed him, and disappeared.
He related the experience to a friend in the morning. On his
return home, she began qiiizzing him about his sleep that night,
and then, without hearing his accomit of his experience, confessed
that she had fixed her mind upon the intention of appearing to him.
Her determination was to awaken him from sleep, to attract his
attention to herself while she was on the opposite side of the room,
to walk over to his bedside, and to kiss him. Her written account
agrees essentially with his, except that according to her recollection
she appeared at 11 p.m., whereas she had determined to appear at
1 a.m."
In addition to the primary and secondary experimental cases just
cited, the following tertiary cases may be considered.
t48. Some time before 1819, Councillor H. M. Wesermann, in
Diisseldorf, claimed to have succeeded in four attempts to produce
dreams along definitely specified lines in the minds of sleeping friends.
Each of the experiments was directed at a different friend. In
three of the dreams he himself appeared. The distances between
him and the sleepers varied from one-eighth mile to five miles.
In a fifth experiment, at a distance of nine miles, he intended
' Jouni. S.P.R. (1895-6), vii. 99-lUU ; Myers, Human Personality, i. 697-8.
'^Jourv. Amer. S.P.R. (1907), i. 596-602.
130] Visions and AiJparitions 227
that a Lieutenant N. sliould see in a dream, at 11 o'clock, a lady
who had been dead five years. But the Lieutenant was awake, and
he and a friend both saw an apparition of the lady.
The testimony of the two percipients is not presented except
indirectly.^
t 49. Mr John Moule of Codicote, England, determined in 1855
to try to appear to a mesmeric subject of his. He concentrated and
dreamed vividly of appearing to her. She later spontaneously
confirmed his account of the apparition in some detail.
The narrative was written down by Mr Moule some years later
(about 1883).2
t 50. In April 1859, Mrs H. R. Russell, who was living in Scot-
land, suddenly made up her mind to go to Germany to see her
mother and sisters, and determined to attempt to make her own
apparition notify them. For about ten minutes she thought most
intensely of her sisters, and felt that she was half present at home,
and could see her people.
When she arrived she found that, at the time she had concentrated,
one of her sisters saw her quite clearly entering the room by one
door, passing through it, opening the door of another room where
their mother was, and shutting the door behind her. The sister
rushed after what she thought was Mrs Russell, and was " quite
stupefied " when no trace of her could be found.
The account by Mrs Russell was dated 8 June 1886. She wrote
to the sister asking whether she remembered the occurrence, and
received this reply, " Of course I remember the matter as well as if
it had happened to-day. Pray don't come appearing to me again !
"
t51. An able and respected professor in Harvard University,
who was a colleague of Wilham James, reported to him the following
experiment. In 1883 or 1884, this professor resolved to try to
project his astral body to the presence of a friend, without telling
her of his intention. At the time when he was trying to wish himself
into her presence, half a mile away, she thought she saw him looking
through a crack of the door. This account was told verbally to
Professor James, shortly after it happened. The written account
was made at his request in 1903, and talHed exactly with his memory
of the earher story.*
t 52. Some time between 1888 and 1890, Alma Radberg was
hypnotised unpremeditatedly in Kalmar, Sweden, by Mr Alfred
Backman. She was instructed to go to Stockholm to the Director-
^ Phantasms of the Living, i. 101-2.
2 Proc. S.P.R. (1885), iii. 420-1 ; Phantasms of the Living, i. 110.
^ Phantasms of the Living, ii. 675-6.
* Noted Witnesses fur Psychic Occurrences, 30-1 ; from Journ. Atner. S.P.R.
(1909), iii. 253-4.
228 Homell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
General of Pilotage. She reported that he was sitting at the writing
table in his study. The hypnotist told her repeatedly to rattle a
bunch of keys which she said were on the table, and to put her hand
on the Director's shoulder. She reported that he really observed
her. He, although he had no idea that the experiment was taking
place, reported later that at the time specified he was at the desk,
had his attention attracted to the keys, and twice thought he caught
a glimpse of a woman, though no one was there. The account is
taken from an article by Dr Backman, published in 1891.^
In addition to the above strictly experimental cases, the appearer
is reported to have been concentrating his attention on the per-
cipient, or on the percipient's environment, in cases t 7, t 9, 1 10
and s 11.
Apparitions Corresponding with Dreams or
Hallucinations in the Appearers
The following cases are similar to some of the experimental cases
in that the appearer is conscious of the percipient and of the per-
cipient's surroundings. In some of the present group of cases, more-
over, it seems clear that concentration of attention occurred, similar
to that employed in the experiments.
Cases in the present group are like reciprocal dreams in that two
percipients share closely similar hallucinatory experiences. The
chief difference is that in each of the following cases, one percipient
experienced a dream, or vision, containing elements of the situation'
in which the second percipient was awake, and that this second
percipient (visually or otherwise) perceived the presence of an ap-
parition of the dreamer in these surroundings.
s 53. In 1854, the Rev. P. H. Newnham, then a student at
Oxford, had a vivid dream that he was stopping with the family of
the lady who later became his wife. He rushed upstairs, overtook
his fiancee on the top step, and passed his two arms round her
waist, under her arms, from behind. On this he woke, and a clock
in the house struck ten almost immediately afterwards. He wrote
a detailed account of this the next morning to his fiancee. Crossing
his letter came one from the lady, telling that about ten o'clock
on the night when the dream occurred, on reaching the landing of
the stairs she heard the footsteps of the man to whom she was
engaged quickly mounting the stairs after her, and then felt him
put his arms round her waist.
Some years later Mr and Mrs Newnham read over the two letters,
noted that their personal recollections " had not varied in the least
degree therefrom," and then destroyed the letters. Both parti-
cipants filed independent written accounts in 1884.'^
1 Proc. 8.P.R. (1891-2), vii. 206-7. ^ phantasms of the Living (1886), i. 225-6.
130] Visions and Apparitions 229
s 54. On 3 October, 1863, Mr S. R. Wilmot sailed frora Liverpool
for New York, on tlie steamer City ofLimerich. His wife and children
were in Watertown, Conn. Toward morning on the night of Tuesday,
13 October, he dreamed that he saw his wife come to the door of
the stateroom clad in her nightdress. At the door she seemed to
discover that her husband was not the only occupant of the room,
hesitated a httle, then advanced to his side, stooped down, kissed
him, and after caressing him for a few moments, quietly withdrew.
In the morning it developed that Wilmot's fellow passenger (whose
berth was above his but set farther back) had, while awake, seen
a lady enter and act in a manner corresponding exactly with
Wilmot's dream of his wife's visit.
The wife did not meet the steamer at New York. Almost her
first question, when they were alone together in Watertown, was,
" Did you receive a visit from me a week ago Tuesday ?
" "A
visit from you ?
" Wilmot asked ; "we were more than a thousand
miles at sea." ffis wife then told him that she had been worried
about him on account of the going ashore of another ship, the
Africa. On Tuesday night she had lain awake thinking of him, and
about four o'clock in the morning it seemed to her that she went
out to seek him. Crossing the stormy sea, she came to a steamship.
Descending into the cabin, she passed through it to the stern until
she came to his stateroom. (Although she had never seen the ship,
she described it correctly in every particidar.) She noted the upper
berth, set back farther than the lower. In it she saw a man looking
at her, and for a moment was afraid, but soon went up to the side
of his berth, bent down and kissed her husband, embraced him,
and then went away.
This experience was written out by a man to whom he told it,
and the manuscript was corrected and signed by Mr Wilmot about
1885. Mrs Wilmot confirmed the experience in writing in 1890.
Mr Wilmot's sister, who accompanied him on the voyage, wrote
and signed a statement telling of having discussed the experience,
at the time and also three years later, with the man who had been
in the upper berth. The facts about the sailing of the Cihj of
Limerick and the going ashore of the Africa have been verified from
newspaper accoimts published in 1865.^
s 55. One night in November 1875, in Nebraska, Mrs Mary M. G.
Manning woke from a dreamless sleep, wide awake, and yet to her
own conscious feeling as if she were back in her childhood, left alone
in the darkness by her elder sister, Jessie, who used to care for her.
She sat up in bed, and called with all her voice, " Jessie ! Jessie !
"
This aroused her husband, who spoke to her.
The experience was so vivid that she wrote next day to her sister,
1 Proc. 8.P.R. (1891-2), vii. 41-4 ; Myers, Human Persoiiulilt/, i. 683-5.
230 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
who was living 300 miles away, in Omaha. In a few days she re-
ceived a letter from her, written on the same day her own was
written, and teUing that on the night in question she had been
awakened by Mary's voice calling her name twice. The impression
was so strong that her husband had gone to the door to see if Mary
possibly could be there.
Both sisters, and their husbands, submitted signed statements
about their parts in this experience in 1894 ; the letters were not
preserved.^
p 56. On 10 June 1883, Miss Constance S. Bevan dreamed, in
London, that someone had told her Miss E. Elliott was dead.
Instantly, in her dream, she rushed to Miss Elliott's room, entered
it, went to her bedside and pulled the clothes from off her face.
Miss Elliott was quite cold ; her eyes were wide open and staring
at the ceiling. This frightened Miss Bevan so that she dropped at
the foot of the bed, and knew no more until she found herself half
out of bed in her own room, and wide awake. She then heard the
clock strike five.
Miss Elhott wrote that she awoke on this same morning and was
lying on her back with eyes fixed on the ceiling, when she heard the
door open and felt someone come in and bend over her. Miss
Elliott did not move, but instead of kissing her, Constance went
and crouched at the foot of the bed, moving the bed-clothes from
Miss Elliott's feet. When the apparition touched her bare foot,
Miss Elliott knew nothing more till she found herself out of bed
looking for Constance. She never doubted that she had really been
there until she saw both doors fastened on the inside. She looked
at her watch and found that it was a few minutes past five.
Both participants wrote independent accounts in February 1884.
Before leaving her room on the morning in question. Miss Bevan
had told the dream to her sister, who sent in a signed statement to
that effect.
2
p 57. About the end of October 1884, Jno. T. Milward Pierce
was trying to catch a horse on a ranch in Nebraska. The horse
kicked him in the face, splitting two teeth, but leaving no visible
surface injury. He backed away to avoid the next kick, and leaned
against a stable wall. A moment only had passed when he saw on
his left, apparently quite close, what appeared to be the young lady
to whom he was engaged, but who actually at that moment
was 25 miles away, in Yankton, Dakota. She was pale, and her
eyes looked troubled. Her whole form appeared, looking perfectly
material and natural. The vision lasted, perhaps, a quarter of a
minute. Pierce's attention was distracted by someone who asked
1 Myers, Hummi Personality, i. 417-8 ; Journ. S.P.B. (1895-6), vii. 100-1.
^ Phanlasvis of the Living (1886), i. 318-20.
130] Visions and Apparifio7is 231
whether lie was hurt. When he looked back, she had vanished.
Pierce's mind was entirely clear, for he went at once to his office
and drew plans and specifications for a new house.
He was so haunted by the appearance that, next morning, he
started for Yankton. The first words the young lady said when he
met her were, " Why, I expected you all yesterday afternoon. I
thought I saw you looking so pale, and your face all bleeding." He
asked when this happened and she said, " Immediately after lunch."
It was just after his lunch that the horse kicked him.
The account from Pierce was dated 5 January 1885. He stated
that he had taken down the particulars at the time they happened.
Before verification directly from the young lady could be obtained,
she underwent a severe illness, and her recollection of details was
rather vague. In a letter written 27 May 1885, Pierce said that she
wished him to say that she recollected the afternoon in question,
remembered expecting him (though it was not his usual day for
coming) and recalled that she was afraid something had happened
to him. On 13 July 1885 she sent a signed statement saying that
she remembered feeling sure some accident had happened, that she
had told Mr Pierce at the time everything unusual that she felt, and
that subsequent events had effaced all clear recollection of the
further facts.^
p58. On 20 June 1905, Captain Frederick Ward drove Mrs
Ellen Green to the home of Mr and Mrs John Berwick, near Cardiff,
where she was to spend a couple of days. He then returned to his
own home, about two miles distant. On the way the horse upset
the trap, and Captain Ward was badly bruised and shaken. The
next afternoon, between three and four o'clock, he was lying on a
couch in his sitting room, wondering what Mrs Green would think
if she knew of the occurrence. On that same afternoon, about half-
past three, Mrs Green was sitting alone in the drawing-room of Mrs
Berwick's house. Happening to look up, she saw Captain Ward,
dressed in his usual clothes, standing at the bay window and looking
at her as though he desired to speak to her. She rose hastily and
went toward the window caUing to him and waving her hand to him,
partly in greeting and partly as a sign for him to go to the hall door.
When she reached the window she was surprised not to see him.
She hurried to the door, but he was not there, nor was anyone
anywhere near the house.
Meantime Captain Ward, at his home, suddenly heard Mrs
Green's voice outside the house. He managed with difficulty to
get to the window to call her in, and was greatly amazed not to see
her, and to find no one there.
Shortly after seeing the apparition, Mrs Green told Mr and Mrs
^ Phantasms of the Living, ii. 156-8.
232 Horn ell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
Berwick about it. Next day Captain Ward came over to take her
to the station, and told of his experience. The two percipients and
Mr and Mrs Berwick signed a joint statement of the experience on
26 July 1905. Captain Ward sent in an independent statement on
2 August 1905.1
s 59. The following case was reported to Hyslop by Dr Albert
H. Eoler of Chicago, sometime between 1906 and 1909. The
doctor's mother, on comparing notes with him " a few weeks " after
the event, told of having had a vivid " nightmare " between 2 and
3 a.m. on 17 July. She dreamed that she was in the bedroom where
her husband had died the previous spring, in Dr Roler's home,
300 miles distant. She thought she saw her husband lying on the
bed, as he had between his death and his funeral, but in her dream
he moved and made an effort to rise. Startled, she rushed into the
next bedroom, where Dr Roler slept, and called " Bert, oh Bert !
"
At that instant she awoke, looked at her watch, and was unable to
sleep again for some time because of the vividness of the dream.
On the same night, at the same hour, her son dreamed that he saw
her standing, much agitated, in the doorway of the bedroom where
his father had died, and he awoke hearing her call " Bert, oh Bert !
"
The experience was so vivid that he woke his wife, told her the
dream, and could not sleep again for some time. Dr Roler offered
to provide Dr Hyslop with affidavits from his mother and his wife,
but these are not published with the account.^
p 60. On 11 February 1912, Mrs Barnard was up nearly all night
with two sicii children. Her two other children were away at school,
and both had measles. One of these, named Francis, was much on
her thoughts on this night. Twice during the night Mrs Barnard
dreamed that he wanted to put his head on her shoulder and could
not because baby Betty, whom she was holding, was in the way.
Each time she woke up to find herself telling Francis to be careful
of the baby. Although no one had told her that Francis was not
in his own room during his illness, she became aware that he was
in the big dormitory, in the third bed on the door side.
On this same night Francis was very ill in the bed just specified.
Both when asleep and when awake he felt his mother close beside
him. He wanted to put his head on her shoulder and could not
because she was holding the baby in her arms. He wrote her of
this experience ten days later, asking if she had been thinking of
him. Signed statements were submitted by Mrs Barnard on 21
February, by her husband on 2 April, and by Francis on 15 April.
^
The haziness of the line between shared dreams and apparitions
projected out of dreams is illustrated by case p 60 where the boy,
^Journ. S.P.R. (1905-6), xii. 193-6. ^Joiirn. Amer. /S.P.i?. (1909), iii. 615-6.
^Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxiii. 415-7.
130] Visions and Apparitions 233
both when he was asleep and when awake, " felt " the presence of
his mother and noted that she was holding the baby ;
and by case
s 59, where the apparition of the mother was seen in the son's dream
in the room where he was actually sleeping, and her cry was heard
as he was waking up. Strictly speaking, case s 59 should probably
be classed as a shared dream, or as a transitional form.
p 61. On the night of 5-6 March 1912, in Brighton, England,
Miss Emma M. Steele awoke to find herself standing in the middle of
her bedroom, answering, " All right, I'm coming," to a Mr Claude
Burgess, whom she thought she had heard call, " Miss Steele !
Miss Steele ! Miss Steele !
" Mr Burgess was an invaUd who had
been staying at her private hotel, but three weeks previously he had
moved to another address in the same city. By the time she had
put on her dressing gown, she recalled that he had gone ;
she looked
at her clock and noted that it was exactly 3 a.m. Later in the day
she received the following letter from him :
" Dear Emma, I had a
funny dream about you last night. I dreamed that you appeared
at about 3 a.m. Just a glimpse of you. It's funny, isn't it ? Yours,
Claude Burgess."
In response to inquiries. Burgess stated that he woke up and then
saw an absolutely distinct apparition of Miss Steele standing at the
door of his bedroom. He had closed the door, but she appeared to
have opened it. She was attired in her ordinary dress. Although
the room appeared dark, Miss Steele looked just as she would have
appeared in daylight.
Miss Steele wrote out and sent in her account on 13 March 1912.
The original letter from Burgess was placed on file with the Society
for Psychical Research. Signed corroborative statements were
secured on 13 March from Miss Steele's cook (to whom she told her
experience before receiving the letter) and from the man who carried
the letter ; on 27 April signed statements were filed by a husband
and wife to whom the events were related on the evening of the day
when they occurred.^
s 62. In 1918-9, in Hartford, Conn., Mrs BX. roused one night to
a state which seemed to be neither waking nor sleeping. She could
see the objects in the bedroom, but felt as if she were in a trance.
Her husband was sleeping beside her. She was gradually aware
that he seemed to be rising in a position parallel to his physical
body, and to be floating a few feet above her. This floating body
she sensed rather than saw, and yet with pecuUar intensity. The
floating body approached the window. The wife then put out her
hand to touch the physical body of her sleeping husband beside her.
He gave a long sigh and awoke. " I had a strange dream," she said.
" So did I," he returned. He then told her that he had been dreaming
1 Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxiii. 398-9 ; Journ. S.P.R. (1912), xv. 259-62.
234 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
that he was disembodied and that he was floating ont of the window,
when her touch seemed to pull him back, and he awoke.
Independent signed statements were submitted by both Mr and
Mrs BX. in February 1 930.
^
The following tertiary cases of dreams or visions coupled with
apparitions of the dreamers add certain interesting considerations
to those presented in the primary and secondary ones.
t 63. In 1754, in England, the Rev. Joseph Wilkins, when about
100 miles from his parental home, dreamed " very perfectly " that
he visited it, tried the front door, entered the back, and conversed
with his mother. On the same night the mother heard him try the
front door and enter the back, and heard the spoken words of his
dream. In his account, written some years later, Wilkins describes
a letter written by his father about this event immediately after it
occurred.^
t 64. Mr Crowell F. Varley, chief engineer of the electric tele-
graph in England testified before the London Dialectical Society in
1869 that on one occasion when he was in danger of being asphyxiated
from the fumes of a chloroform sponge which he had used to put
himself to sleep, his apparition succeeded in rousing his wife, who
was sleeping in another part of the house. He was able gradually
to recall having seen himself with the sponge on his mouth, unable
to move, and having exerted all his will to make his danger clear
to his wife.^
Reciprocal Dreams
In the group of cases just presented, there are several examples
of apparitions coinciding with dreams in which the appearer saw
the percipient and the percipient's surroundings. Reciprocal
dreams proper involve the reciprocal perception of each other by
two or more percipients, in a common dream environment. In-
cluded here also, however, are authenticated cases of dreams
paralleling each other in various respects, even where the dreamers
did not dream of each other.
p 65. In July 1887, a Mr and Mrs H., both on the same night,
dreamed that they were walking in Richmond Park with their
friend J. They were discussing an invitation to a party, to be given
by Lady R. (In her dream the invitation was prospective, in his
dream it had already been received.) They were talking of the
difficulty of getting home, when J. remarked, " Oh, I will manage
that for you." Mrs H.'s dream, as presented, contained the addi-
1 Walter Franklin Prince, Human Experiences (1931), 210-1. "
^ •
2 Proc. S.P.R. (1882-3), i. 122-3 ; Robert Owen, Footfalls on the Boundary
of another World (1860), 184-7 ; from Abercrombie, Intellectual Poivers, 215-6.
= London Dialectical Society. Report on Spiritualism (1873), 162-3.
130] Visions and Apparitions 235
tional details of seeing notices of the party posted up on trees, and
of a carriage driving up when J. struck a blade of grass with his
stick. An account written by Mrs H. was signed by both dreamers
and sent in the following months
s 66. Two young men were sleeping in the same bed one night in
1891. They had often discussed the marriage which one of the boys
planned, but which his parents and the other young man opposed.
On this night, the youth who contemplated the marriage dreamed
that the ceremony was about to occur in the dining-room, but that
his friend came rushing into the house, in shirt-sleeves, and insisted
that it must not take place. The friend dreamed on the same night
that he hurried off, coatless, to the place where the marriage was
about to take place, that he found his friend in a back room, where
his father was trying to get him to change his mind. He dreamed
that he called the prospective groom aside and tried fruitlessly to
talk him out of the plan, and then went home in disgust. In-
dependent accounts were written in Lehmann's, La., by the two
dreamers in 1893, and the father also testified at that time that his
son had told him of the dream the morning after it had occurred.'^
p 67. In Elmira, N.Y., on 26 January 1892, between 2 and 3 a.m.,
Dr Adele Gleason dreamed that she stood in a lonesome place
in dark woods, that great fear came over her, that the presence
of her friend, J. R. Joslyn came to her and shook a tree by her, and
that its leaves began to turn to flame. On the same night, at the
same hour, Joslyn dreamed in another house in Elmira, that he
found Dr Gleason in a lonely wood after dark, apparently paralysed
with fear, that he went to her side and shook a bush, when the falling
leaves turned into flame. Both dreamers submitted written ac-
counts within a month of the occurrence. The accounts agree that
when the two dreamers met, four days after the event, she mentioned
having had a strange dream, but that he at once stopped her and
related his own dream first, without suggestion from her. Dr
Hodgson made written inquiries and found that Dr Gleason had
made a record of the dream in her notebook the morning after it
occurred, and before she saw Joslyn.^
s 68. In 1897, a Mr Davis dreamed one night that he was helping
two ladies across the ruined planking of an old saw-mill, built over
black, stagnant water. Something white, glimmering below, proved
to be the face of his wife, just showing above the water, with her
eyes looking into his. but without a motion or sound. Mr Davis
dreamed that he immediately jumped into the water and caught
her round the shoulders and neck to support her. At that instant
^Journ. S.P.E. (1889-90), iv. 220 ; Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxiii. 355.
^Journ. S.P.R. (1893-4), vi. 169-70; Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxiii. 355-6.
^Journ. S.P.R. (1895-6), vii. 104-5; Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxiii, 417-9.
o
236 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
iie was roused from sleep by a smothered cry from Mrs Davis at
his side. He shook her to waken her and asked what she had
dreamed to frighten her. She had just been dreaming of finding
herself sinking in a pond of water by the roadside, of throwing up
her arms above the water, and trying to scream for help. Just as
she felt her hand grasped by someone, to help her, Mr Davis spoke,
and she awoke. Both dreamers wrote independent accounts (in
New York City ?) about two years after the occurrerice.^
p 69. In the small hours of the morning of 7 October 1900, an
associate of the S.P.R. awoke with a painful conviction that his
wife, who was that night sleeping in another part of the house, had
burst a varicose vein, in the calf of her leg, and that he could feel
the swelled place, three inches long. He wondered whether she
would be able to bandage it and come upstairs to where he was
sleeping. She also awoke, at 2.15 that morning, with a vivid im-
pression that a vein had burst, and that her husband was there and
called her attention to it. She thought she felt the blood trickling
down her leg. When she became fully awake she found that her
leg was in its usual condition and that no break had occurred. She
wondered then whether she would have been able to bandage it
and go up to him. Both participants wrote independent accounts
of their experience on the same day when it happened. It will be
noted that at least part of the coincident experience occurred in a
half-awake or wide-awake state, though both of them were in a
dream-like condition when the experience began.
^
p 70. In January 1901 (somewhere in America ?), a man and
his wife both dreamed that his mother (who was dead) came into
the room and stood at the foot of the wife's bed. The wife's dream
included hearing the mother say that the wife's mother would not
live three months. The dreamers told each other at breakfast. The
husband sent a written account two days later, and the wife replied
to an inquiry that she had nothing to add and no change to make in
the statement made by her husband. The wife's mother (who was
83 years old, and seriously ill at the time of the dream) actually
died six months later.
^
p 71. In October 1907, in Baltimore, Md., Carl A. Jacobson
dreamed very realistically that his wife's sister Ada had one of the
epileptic fits to which she was subject, and that he worked with her
to get her out of it, but that she died. Her hfeless form lying there
in his dream was very realistic.
When he awoke in the morning, he told his wife Mary what he
had dreamed. She then told him that she also had dreamed that
1 Journ. S.P.R. (1907), xiii. 119-20 ; Proc. S.P.R. (1923), xxxiii. 357-8.
^Journ. S.P.R. (1899-1900), ix. 331-2.
^ Journ. S.P.R. (1907), xiii. 118-9 ; Proc. S.P.R. (1923), .xxxiii. 358-9.
130] Visions and Apparitions 237
Ada had an epileptic fit, and that she died. The body lying there
in her dream was such a gruesome sight that she could not stand to
look at it, but went out of the room.
These simultaneous dreams made such an impression that the
following day Mary wrote to her other sister, telling her about them
and requesting her to tell Ada to be careful. Ada laughed when
she heard it, and said, " It's funny they bother so much about me."
About three weeks later, on 11 November, Ada was struck and
killed at a grade crossing in York, Pa. Presumably she was just
going into one of her seizures, and could not move as the train bore
down upon her.
On 14 November 1907, Jacobson made a note in his diary of
the coincidental dreams and the correspondence with the sister.
A photostat of the page containing this record was submitted in
evidence. Dr Jacobson (who had been awarded his Ph.D. degree
in the meantime) wrote an account of this experience for Dr Prince
in 1930, and his wife wrote an account of hers in 1931.^
p 72. On the night of 3 July 1916, a man found himself lying
on the floor, feeling very ill, unable to move or to call for help.
About 3.35 in the morning he managed to call the cook, saying,
" Come quickly, I am very ill." The cook sent the housemaid for
some whiskey ;
they poured some into his mouth and then, with
difiiculty, got him into bed. He revived a little and said, " I am
feeling very ill. I think I am dying."
On this same night this man's brother-in-law dreamed very
vividly that he saw him lying unconscious and ghastly on the floor.
In the dream he lifted him with difliculty to the bed. He then tried
unavailingly to get assistance. A woman promised to get some
whiskey, but did not come back.
On this same night the daughter of this dreamer also dreamed
that her uncle had said " I am very ill
" and had left the room, that
she then found him lying unconscious, and that neither she nor
others were able to go to his assistance.
The two dreamers, the cook, and the physician who treated the
sick man, all signed statements covering their experiences. The
father told his dream to the daughter before she related hers. It
was not until the following day that they obtained from the uncle
the information corresponding to their dreams.^
p 73. A woman called Ann Jones awakened from an unusually
deep sleep at 7.45 on the morning of 28 December 1919. She carried
over from her dreaming consciousness a vision of heaven as an
immense, dark, blue-purple-violet globe, with a segment open,
from which radiance and strongly stressed music issued. Trying
1 Walter Franklin Prince, Human Experiences (19.31), 177-8.
2 Jow«. S.P.i?. (1917), xviii. 25-9.
o2
238 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
to arouse herself, she turned and saw (normally) a white toy elephant
which stood in the room. This sight banished her vision and the
sound of the music. She told no one about it until she related it to
her brother in the afternoon. Just after he left, and without having
seen the brother, their sister, E., came in, and spontaneously told
of dreaming that morning that she saw Ann walking up an incUne
into a mound which was heaven. In a few moments she perceived
in her dream that Ann reappeared from behind the mound in the
form of three small white elephants. E. then awoke, to find that
it was 7.45. Both participants signed independent accounts of
these experiences, which were filed within three months of the
occurrence. The brother also signed a statement that he remembered
his sister having told him a dream on this occasion.^
p 74. On a morning in February 1924, a man dreamed that a
long-necked bird (something like a cross between a turkey and a
pheasant) was rubbing his wife's eyes with its beak, and that he
warned her to be careful with her eyes. In his dream he heard her
Bay that it would be all right. She, at the same time, dreamed of
a swan coming up out of the sea and attacking a dog. In her dream
she crouched down, with the swan's neck over her. She kept quiet
and said to her husband, in the dream, " I suppose it could hurt me."
He replied, "Oh, rather ! It could have your eyes out." A joint state-
ment of these dreams was written out immediately after the partici-
pants had related them to each other, and signed by both of them.^
p 75. On the night of 7-8 June 1925, in London, Theodore
Besterman dreamed that he was in a room with an elderly woman
and two men. He was aware that the woman suffered from devil-
seeing delusions. She thought he was a devil, and charged at him,
full tilt. The two men held her back, but she seemed at the point
of breaking loose. He then dreamed that he fainted because her
movements and featiires became so horrible. When he recovered
from the swoon, he was in icy terror, but at this point he was
awakened by the screams of his wife. She had just been dreaming
that she was with men friends visiting other people. She became
convinced that one man, with a black eye, was a devil. Friends,
who were standing behind her, urged her to sing a song, in which
she pointed him out as a devil. His eyes then blazed up horribly,
and he seemed about to descend on her. She awoke screaming.
Mr and Mrs Besterman each wrote out their own account of the
dreams on the following day.^
In addition to the eleven cases which fulfil the primary or second-
ary conditions of authentication, the following are worth notice,
though the evidence is not so well supported as in the first group.
1 Journ. S.P.R. (1924), xxii. 350-2. ^ Id. (1924), xxi. 349-50.
3 id. (1925), xxii. 123-5.
130] Visions and Apparitions 239
t 76. In 1869, Henry Armitt Brown, a brilliant lawyer, dreamed
in New York City that he was lying on his back in a narrow street,
in the grip of a low-browed, thick-set man with unkempt hair and
grizzled beard who was trying to choke him. The dreamer saw two
horror-stricken friends rushing into the street to save him, but
before they could get there the assailant crashed through Brown's
forehead with a hatchet. The next morning the man who had
been the foremost rescuer in the dream told spontaneously, and
without prompting, of having dreamed his part in the drama in
great detail, corresponding accurately with Brown's dream. Within
a week the second dream-rescuer also spontaneously told of having
dreamed his part also. The written account, by Brown, was dated
four years after the dreams occurred.^
t 77. In 1905 to 1907 Miss Irene A Wright was city editor of the
Havana Telegrajjh. One night she dreamed that the editor had done
her a grievous wrong. She dreamed with extraordinary clarity
that she proceeded to the editor's room, floated upstairs, and in
great fury stabbed him repeatedly.
Next morning when she entered the editorial room her friend
greeted her, " Last night you appeared to me in a dream . . . You
were a fury !
"
Miss Wright's account was dated 11 April 1929. No account was
secured from the editor.^
t 78. Carrington, in 1931, reported a case in which he and two
other persons all had on the same night a dream of a black baby
(or, in one dream, a black bear) which fell from a height and was
smashed below with a peculiar " plot " sound. The dreams differed
in details.^
t 79. In her recent autobiography, Mrs Osborne Leonard de-
scribes what she believes to have been her explorations of the spirit
world in her astral body. She says that she and Sir Walter Gibbons
compared notes about their astral journeys to the same place, and
verified each other's experiences. She has not presented an in-
dependently written account by Sir Walter, and the latter has not
replied to a letter from the present writer, asking for confirmation
of the experience.*
The degree to which the pairs of participants in the above cases
actually shared in each other's dreams, as distinguished from a mere
sensing by one of some aspects of the other's dream experience, is
difiicult to determine, but apparently varies widely. In cases,
^Walter Franklin Prince, Noted Witnesses for Psychic Occurrences (1928),
61-4.
2 Walter Franklin Prince, Human Experiences (1931), 211-2.
3 Journ. Amer. S.P.R. (1931), xxv. 404.
4 Mrs Osborne Leonard, My Life in Two Worlds (1931), 95-100.
240 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
p 65, p 67, p 69, p 75, t 76 and t 77, both dreamers in each instance
were conscious of the other, in settings which corresponded in some
major points. In p 70, the husband noted that the dream apparition
of the mother went to his wife's bed, implying a consciousness of
his wife's presence. The account of her dream does not mention
the husband or even his bed, but the setting obviously was the same.
These eight cases, then, may be fairly classified as shared dreams.
In case s 66 it is not clear whether the young men reported vaguely
a genuinely shared dream, or whether merely telepathic or accidental
likenesses were involved. In cases s 68 and t 78 the dreams differ
too much from each other to be regarded as shared, p 72 is really
a double telepathic dream, in which both dreamers appear to have
shared experiences of the sick man or of those near him, but in
which neither dreamer was conscious of the participation of the
other. In p 73 E. seems to have shared, in a somewhat altered
fashion, certain aspects of Ann's half-awake experience. In p 74,
the dreamers each dreamed of the other, and the central trends of
the dreams are alike, but the details are too different to consider
the case a truly shared dream.
The extent to which experiences on the borderline between
sleeping and waking entered into cases p 69, p 72, and p 73, is worth
noting. The line between dreaming and waking experience is not
a clear one, as had already been pointed out in connection with
cases s 59 and p 60.
What are the Probabilities that Phenomena of the
Types Herein Reported Actually Occur ?
What is the probability that apparitions located in space-time are
actually perceived collectively ? If a single case were absolutely
proved, it would be necessary to admit that collectively perceived
apparitions actually occur. But the sceptic may raise the question
whether any given instance may not be the result of a conspiracy
to hoax, or the product of a combination of errors, delusions and
coincidences. How strong a case is built up by a collection of the
sort presented in this study ? What is the approximate probability
that in this collection there is no single valid case ?
Cases s 6 to t 39 inclusive and also s 54—a total of 35—involve
reports of collectively perceived apparitions. If all of these cases
had been reported to have happened in London in 1884, or in
Washington in 1925, the presumption might arise that an epidemic
of hoaxes had arisen—that one story had inspired others, and that
therefore the whole group as a unit should be regarded with sus-
picion. Actually, however, the alleged occurrences range in date
from 1839 to 1932—a span of 93 years. In location, about half
130] Visions and Apparitions 241
occurred in the British Isles, a smaller number in the United States,
and the rest in places scattered about the world. In view of the
very wide chronological and geographical spread of the cases, it
seems reasonable to assume that their probabilities are fairly in-
dependent of one another.
The probability that every one of a collection of independent
cases is false is equal to the product of the probabilities that each
individually is false. Judgments as to the veracity of a given case
will vary widely. But in order to illustrate the order of probability
established by this collection, the writer will assume that the
probability of falsity of each primary case is -3, of each secondary
case -5, and each tertiary case -7. The collection of reports of collec-
tively perceived apparitions includes 6 primary cases, 15 secondary,
and 14 tertiary. Under the assumption just stated, the probability
that all of the primary cases are false amounts to the sixth power
-3 which equals -000729 ; the probability that each of the secondary
cases is false amounts to the 15th power of -5, or -000030 ;
the
probability that all the tertiary cases are false amounts to the lith
power of -7, or -006782. The probability that every case in all three
groups combined is false amounts to the product of these three
probabilities, which is -00000000015, or one chance out of ap-
proximately 6,770,000,000.
Judging the original probabilities of truth in the case reports as
b>eing better or worse than that assumed above will, of course,
affect this combined estimate. Suppose, for example, one made
the sceptical assumption that there were 9 chances in 10 that each
case, taken by itself, was a hoax. Under that assumption there
would still be only about 1 chance in 40 that every case in the 35
was a hoax.
In estimating the probable truth or falsity of the individual case
reports, it is important to remember that the seeing of apparitions
is not in question. Even the most conservative psychologists accept
the fact that some people, under certain circumstances, believe that
they are seeing persons who, according to ordinary tests, are not
there. Neither is the seeing of veridical apparitions to be judged
exclusively or even mainly on the basis of the evidence herein
.adduced. Scores, if not hundreds of other cases have been re-
ported in which the occurrence of apparitions has been alleged to
iave coincided with related events not normally known to the
percipients. The question at issue in relation to the present 35 cases
is this : granted that people do see apparitions, and that some
apparitions may coincide, in ways not expUcable by chance, with
events not normally known to the percipients, what is the probability
that these reports of the same apparitions being seen at the same
time by two or more percipients are genuine ?
242 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
Moreover, in seeking the absolutely most probable estimate of
the truth of such accoimts as we have been considering, it is necessary
to contemplate not merely the records of experiences actually
assembled here, but the probable collection which would have
resulted if an exhaustive study could have been made. Obviously,
only a small fraction of actual accounts of seeing apparitions have
ever been published. The present writers cannot hope to have made
an exhaustive collection of even the published cases. In view of
the strong probabilities established by the present cases, it seems
clear that a truly exhaustive collection of the evidence which already
exists, or has existed, would establish overwhelmingly the proposition
that collectively perceived apparitions of types more or less similar
to those covered in this study do occur.
What is the j)rohahility that apparitions have been produced ex-
perimentally ? Of apparitions corresponding with deliberate
attempts to produce them, 13 cases are recorded. These cases
involve 11 different experimenters who reported a total of 19
different successful attempts to project apparitions of themselves.
The cases range in date from 1819 to 1900. Eight occurred in the
British Isles, 2 on the Continent, 2 in the United States, and one is
not localised. There is somewhat more tendency for these cases
to be clustered than the examples of apparitions. Five of the
experimental cases occurred in England during the years 1881 tO'
1886, and at least three of these experiments were stimulated by
reading about other attempts. Whether this reduces or enhances
the reUabiUty of the reports may be left to the judgment of the
reader. But one additional source of strength in these reports is
the fact that in two cases (p 43 and p 45) the experiments were
made with the advice and foreknowledge of eminent psychical
researchers.
Of the cases in this group, 4 are primary, 4 secondary, and 5
tertiary in evidential quality. Assuming that the probabiUties of
hoax, misreporting, and the like are -3 for primary cases, -5 for
secondary and -7 for tertiary cases, the probability that all 14 cases
are falsified would be -000853. Assuming that the chances of hoax
or credulous misreporting is -9 for every case, the chances that all
13 are false would be about 1 in 4.
Another way to approach the question of the probability that
experimental projection of apparitions is a demonstrated pheno-
menon, would be to ask what would be the attitude of physicists,,
chemists or biologists, toward an hypothesis with respect to which
20 successful crucial experiments had been reported, assuming that
the reports varied in their authentication as these 20 vary.
Whatever may be the answers given by different readers to these
questions, it may certainly be said, with all due scientific caution^
130] Visions and Apparitions 243
that a sufficiently strong case has been made out for this type of
phenomenon to justify exploring the corollaries which follow if
experimental projection is possible.
What is the probability that apjMritmis sometimes correspond, and
hate causal connections, ivith dreams ? The 12 reported cases of this
type string out from 1754 to 1918. Seven occurred in England ;
4 in the United States, and 1 on the Atlantic. As to evidential
quality, 5 are primary, 5 secondary, and 2 tertiary. If the probabili-
ties of falsity are taken as being -3, -5 and -7 respectively, the odds
against all of these cases being hoaxes or credulous misreports is
1 in about 27,000 ; if the odds against each individual case are
taken to be 9 to 1, the odds that the 12 cases as a group are all false
become 1 in 4.
What is the probability that genuine reciprocal dreams occur ?
Of this type of phenomenon, 15 cases have been reported in this
study, ranging in date from 1869 to 1925, and about evenly divided
between England and the United States. The fact that 9 of the
cases are of primary evidential quality (in addition to 2 secondary
and 4 tertiary) raises the authentication of this group to a high
point. The probability that all the cases are spurious (under [the
•3, -5, -7 assumption) is -00000119, or 1 in about 840,000. Under
the 9 to 1 assumption for individual cases, the odds for the group
become 1 in 5
.
Summary for cases as a whole. When the crystal visions are
included, a total of 79 cases have been summarised in this study.
Of these, 27 are primary, 26 secondary, and 26 tertiary. They
range in date from 1754 to 1932. About one-third occurred before
1880 ; about one-third after 1900. About half of them happened in
the British Isles, chiefly in London and its environs. About one-
fourth came from the United States. The rest were scattered
widely over the earth. In a word, even with the very inadequate
efforts at collection which psychical research agencies have thus
far been able to make, the reporting of collective and reciprocal
apparitions and visions has been persistent and world-wide. It
seems overwhelmingly probable that these reports have some basis
in actual fact : the reality of jointly and reciprocally perceived
apparitions may be taken as demonstrated.
'
In What Respects are these Apparitions
" Objective " ?
Meaning of the term " objective^ To say that an apparition is
purely subjective means that it has no existence independent of
the percipient. But when the attempt is made to set up tests of
objectivity, the distinction becomes rather elusive. Ultimately,.
Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [paet
the objective reality of an experience is to be measured in the
degrees to which it is capable of being shared with other people
and the degrees to which it enters into working relations with the
re3t of one s experience. Specifically, the following tests, while
not conclusive help to illuminate the degrees to which apparitions
described m these 80 cases partook of objectivity. j
To what exterd did these apparitions affect m.ore than one senjjl-
Mucii the most frequent type of apparition among those described
m these cases is the purely visual. But both visual nw i
experiences were combined in cases s 24, s 26, s 40 ([„ 'Ib
p 65 and p 74. Tactile as well as visual sensations were proauced
by the apparition m p 42, p 43, s 53, s 54, p 56, p 60, s 68, and p 69.
Visual, aiiditory and tactile impressions were all involved in cases
^
AK \ u T '^^^sa^ioiis of cold were induced in cases s 19 and
p 45 It will be noted that these lists include 10 primary, 8 secondarv
and 1 tertiary cases.
^'
In case t 39, one percipient experienced auditory hallucinations
and the other visual ;
in case s 28 the apparitional experience of
one percipient was tactual, while that of the other was visual and
auditory. In s 24, the account indicates that the voice was heard
subjectively. The vision itself was stated to have been subjective
m s b., and both vision and voice seem to have been subjective
111 s Zo.
How consistently did independent percipients perceive the appari-
tions^ lins IS the most usual common sense test of objectivity
you see what I saw ?
" asks the incredulous observer In
case s 6, both Mr Mouat and Mr R. saw the apparition of Mr H
standing opposite Mr Mouat at the corner of the table, looking
tTe nttp?/- \
^^^g^^'^^ called
t tZ Tl i ^^'^ ^'^^^ the%osition which
fl6 M P
' ^^.^^'l^^^'^^d/h^t they were phantasmal. In case
fit: ,T
' ^°°drich-Freer followed the eyes of Miss H., and saw
Win ?.P'Y;^^°^^ r^^i^^ both agreed later stood in the same
CoId Irl
' ^ ""''u
^^^^^^ the apparition of
the old lady go up the walk to the door of their house. In s 18, the
mother and daiighter saw the apparition in the same place in the
weT^W ^'°i
^g^'^' reflections in the mirror
stand^^^l T^^^^'.^^'f "^^^ ^ " ^^^1 " P^^^o^ been
standing there. In s 19, the origmal account makes it clear that
movp;^'lf'T.?^'
^^onsistent impressions of the location and
movements of the apparition ; the position as first seen m the
rmrror was consistent with the position as directly observed. In
Ld .^^V^f'?'''^'
apparition sitting on the foot of the
Bed and both observed it rise, go up to the head, and bend to speak
to the corporal. In s 25, the three percipients all saw the apparition
130] Visions and Apparitions 245
enter, pass through the room, contemplate the same pictm-e, and
depart. In p 30, both percipients saw the figure of the mother
bending over the bed of the dying boy. In s 31, the Colonel followed
the eyes of the dying man to the spot where they both saw the
apparition of Walt Whitman. In s 32, the rector and the two
"idely separated parishioners all saw the church warden apparition
'...ending before the altar. Here then are eleven cases, in each of
which two or more percipients (as far as their accounts relate the
ies of w the same figure in the same special location, wearing the
igainst ;
j.^^, with the same facial expressions and doing the same
thmgs. Although these are perhaps the most striking cases, much
the same thing might be said of the other collective perceptions of
apparitions. If these experiences were subjective, they were
collectively subjective, and were consistent in their relations to
the material environment.
To what extent did the apparitions jJroduce effects upon the material
enviroyiment ? In reports of other psychical phenomena it has
frequently been alleged that apparitions or materialised spirits
have opened doors, moved flowers about, left imprints on gravel
walks, on dental wax, on smoked paper, and on photographic plates,
made paraf&n moulds of hands, feet or other members, and produced
other lasting modifications in the material environments in which
they appeared. The nearest approach to such phenomena which
have been noted in these cases are the mirror reflections in s 18
and s 19, the casting of a shadow in s 26 and p 45, the oj^ening of
the door in t 50, the trying of the front door in t 64, and the ex-
tinguishing of the light in t 22. Most if not all of these may well
have been subjective impressions. If collective observations in
.seance rooms were included, far more data would appear on this
point, but the difficulty of demonstrating to sceptical investigators
the absence of fraud in such phenomena makes it necessary to treat
\
professional mediumistic seances as a special category, and to confine
the present study to spontaneous and wow-seance experimental cases.
In what ways did the apparitions transcend ordinary space-time
.conditions ? Distance has been transcended radically in many of
these experiences. In cases t 50, t 52, s 54, s 59 and t 63, the
distances between appearer and percipient were measurable in
hundreds of miles ; in case t 9, thousands of miles are reported to
have been transcended.
The apparitions were observed in a number of cases to pass
through material obstacles. In case s 31, the apparition of Whitman
was seen to pass through a bed ; in s 26, the apparition of the naval
officer was seen to pass through the wall ; in t 23 the woman and
baby did this ; in p 20, the figure sank through the floor ; in t 9 it
.sank through the floor and locked door ; in s 29 it went up through
246 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
the ceiling. In cases t 22, s 26, and p 56, the apparitions were
discovered in rooms known to have been locked. In case 1 14, the
percipient attempted to catch hold of the apparition, but could get
hold of nothing. In p 20, the percipient caught hold of something,
but it was dragged away as the apparition sank into the floor.
(Yet in the various tactile cases, the apparitions became tangible
in certain respects.) The apparitions were transparent to at least
one percipient in t 13 and t 38. They took form gradually in p 5
and s 31. They faded gradually from sight in s 15, s 21, s 24, s 29,
s 40 and p 44. They vanished suddenly under the eyes of the
percipients in s 6, s 19, p 31 and t 37. The apparitions were seen
in normally impossible positions in two cases—on the ceiling in s 11,
and on the wall in s 29. The visions were self-luminous or carried
their illumination with them in s 19, t 22, t 23, s 29, s41, and
probably in some other cases.
Summary. Apparitions, in the above cases, typically transcend
spacial separation even of hundreds of miles, and typically pass
through ordinary matter. Yet they may produce effects on the
senses of touch and hearing at the same time as that of sight, and
they have frequently been seen by two or more observers, whose
reports of their appearance, facial expression, costume, position,
movements, and other details, correspond so closely as to indicate
that the experience was shared to a degree approaching that of
ordinary sense experience.
To What Extent were these Apparitions Conscious
Personalities
Conscious a-pfaritions of living persons. In 10 of the cases cited,
a definite dream, vision or clairvoyant experience corresponded
closely enough with the setting in which the apparition occurred
to justify the inference that the focus of consciousness of the appearer
was in the apparition. These cases are s 46, t 52, s 53, s 54, p 56>
s 59, p 60, s 62, t 63, and t 64. This list includes 3 primary, 5
secondary, and 3 tertiary cases. (In case p 57, the conscious
memory of the appearer terminated before the apparition completed
its activity.) In addition, 5 cases (of which 4 are primary) include
suggestions that some vague consciousness existed. In t 50, the
appearer " felt in her thoughts she herself was half present at home,
and could see her people," but gave no evidence that this conscious
experience corresponded with what actually happened at home at
the time. In p 42, Mr Beard made a memorandum that " while
concentrating he seemed to himself to be actually in the house."'
In p44 and p 45, Mr Godfrey had dreams in which the experiences
of the percipient were reported to him in a way possibly suggestive
of sub-conscious knowledge on his part of what had taken place.
130] Visions and Apparitions 247
In p 57, the appearer thought she saw her fiance looking pale and
with his face bleeding at the time when he was kicked in the face
and when she appeared to hini. His face, however, was actually
not bleeding.
In two cases—p 5 and t 8—the appearer and the percipient were
the same person. In two others—s 40 and t 51 —it is stated specifi-
cally that the appearer had no memory of the experience of ap-
pearing. Presumably this was true also in other experimental and
collectively observed cases where no statement on this point is made.
In case t 64 the memory of the experience was recaptured only by
persistent effort. It would be exceedingly interesting to discover
whether hypnotism or other methods of tapping the sub-conscious
could elicit suppressed memories of apparitional experiences in
such cases. In the absence of data of that sort, it can only be said
that some apparition of living persons seem to have been self-
conscious personahties, while others seem to have retained only
vague memories, or no memories whatever, of their having appeared.
As far as can be judged from the cases at hand, these unconscious,
or partly conscious (or perhaps forgetful) apparitions were of much
the same types as the fully conscious ones. They spoke (p 45 and
s 40), touched the percipient (p 43 and p 45), made apparently
intelligent adaptations of their movements to their physical sur-
roundings and the people in them (p 5, s 40, p 42, p 45, t 50, and
t 51), and showed much the same tendency to appear to loved
persons, as the conscious apparitions did. It may possibly be
significant that the apparitions in s 40, p 44, and p 45 showed
tendencies to take shape slowly, be misty or dissolve gradually,
whereas this characteristic is not reported for any of the fully
conscious apparitions. It may also be worth noting that four of
the conscious cases are reported to have occurred at distances of
100 miles or more, between appearer and percipient, while only one
of the vaguely conscious or unconscious cases were at such a distance.
Are the apparitions of the dead similar in observable characteristics
to the conscious apparitions of the living ? In 16 of the cases, ap-
paritions of persons known to be dead were collectively observed.
With these, probably, should be classed also cases p 20, p 21 and
t 23. In what reported aspects were these 19 apparitions similar to,
and in what reported aspects different from, the 11 conscious
apparitions of living persons ? Due to the method of selecting
cases for this study, all of the reported apparitions of dead persons
were collectively perceived. But of the conscious apparitions of
living persons, s 55 was also collectively perceived.
The self-conscious apparitions spoke to the percipients in cases
s 59, t 63 and t 64 ;
they touched the percipients in s 53, s 54, s 56
and apparently in s 60. Apparitions of the dead are reported to
248 Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart [part
have spoken to percipients in cases s 24, s 26, and s 28 ; in s 28
and s 31 they are reported to have touched the percipients. Con-
scious apparitions of the living are reported to have made intelligent
or apparently purposeful adjustments to physical objects or to
people in 7 of the 11 cases—s 53, s 54, p 56, s 59, s 62, t 63 and t 64.
Apparitions of the dead are reported to have made such adjustments
in cases p 5, s 24, s 25, s 26, s 28, p 30, s 31, s 32, p 43, t 36, t 37 and
t 48
—
i.e. 12 of the 16 cases. A conscious apparition passed through
a locked door in case p 56 ;
apparitions of the dead passed through
physical objects in p 20, t 23, s 26, s 29 and s 31 ;
they disappeared
suddenly in cases p 21, p 30 and t 37.
In the matter of taking shape or fading out gradually, of being
transparent, and of being self-luminous, differences occur. None
of the fully conscious apparitions showed any of these character-
istics, while 9 of the apparitions of the dead showed one or more
of them—namely, p 5, 1 13, p 20, p 21, t 23, s 24, s 29 and s 31.
However, apparitions of the living who did not retain conscious
memories of appearing showed tendencies to fading in s 40, p 44
and p 45.
The apparitions of the dead had it reported that they wore
ordinary clothes in 13 cases, but this was probably because of the
general expectation that they might wear something else. Of the
conscious apparitions, s 46 was reported to be wearing ordinary
clothing, and s 55 had on a night-dress.
The emotional connections between appearers and percipients
seem to have been much the same in the group of conscious appari-
tions as in that of apparitions of the dead. In the conscious group,
the relationship between appearer and percipient was husband and
wife, or betrothed, in 4, mother (or father) and child in 3, and friend
or near relation in 2 cases ; in only one case was the percipient a
stranger. For dead persons, there were among the percipients a
husband, wife, or betrothed, in 3 cases ; a son or daughter in 8 ; and
a close friend or relative in 14. In only 3 cases was the apparition
seen only by strangers, though this number would probably be
increased if full facts were available about doubtful cases.
Four of the apparitions of the dead occurred at a time of crisis
for the percipient or the person toward whom the apparition was
directed : in s 25 the old mother appeared at her son's portrait at
the moment when he was consummating a business achievement
along the lines which she had urged ; in s 26, the dead father ap-
peared to his son at a time of financial and moral crisis ;
in p 30
the mother appeared at the bedside of her son when he was dying ;
in t 35 the dead woman appeared in the house where her beloved
sister was dying. But conscious apparitions of the living also
tended to appear at times of crisis for the percipient. In s 46 the
130] Visions and Apparitions 249
husband, worried about his wife, appeared by her bed. In s 54,
the wife came in apparitional form to her storm-tossed and seasick
husband, about whom she had been concerned. In p 57, the ap-
parition of the fiancee was seen by the man who had just undergone
a painful accident. In p 60, the presence of the mother came to
the sick boy.
Except, then, that they show tendencies to be self-hmimous and
transparent, and to fade in or out, the collectively observed appari-
tions of the dead seem to be closely similar in character to the
conscious apparitions of the living.
: >. :. ^ ; :.t:. ".:'•>•(!:• ji .: rt;;;0 5>m: lutbj; od ;J?x'ta cH
: :
'; :'i;r'1 .!:-r';;- ill ; >; 'r;ii .^i .: "^J:.-;^ tG i:;:;:is .oojlwi;;
^ ^.-'^
REVIEW.
Dr Josef Deutsch, Konnersreuth in drztlicher Beleuchtung, 8vo.
pp. 80. Paderborn : Verlag de Bonifacius-Druckerei, 1932.
" Videant consules ne quid detrimenti capiat res catholica." These
are the words—barring a list of works of reference on pp. 78-9—with
which this little book ends (p. 77).
They show the writer's position with perfect clearness. Dr
Deutsch is both a learned surgeon, who for some thirty years has
been chief physician at the Trinity Hospital ofLippstadt (Westphalia),
and a devout Roman Catholic. He is also, as is obvious from several
passages, a profoundly believing Christian. And yet his attitude
towards Konnersreuth is one of undisguised scepticism.
Apparently he is no exception. For incidentally he tells us (p. 60)
that, as he can state authoritatively, all the Roman Catholic physi-
cians (of Germany) " with dwindling exceptions " are either viewing
Konnersreuth with very strong doubts, or reject it altogether. And
on p. 73 we read that in publishing his work—^privately circulated at
first—he was moved exclusively by the apprehension that through
Konnersreuth Roman Catholicism might some day find itself in a
position similar to the one it was once brought into by the Leo
Taxil hoax. Such pronouncements are characteristic enough.
Dr Deutsch's very valuable work has appeared soon after it has
become known that the Bavarian Bishops had decided to express to
Therese Neumann their wish that she should submit to a scientific
investigation in a University clinic—^at least in a " neutral " clinic.
^
To this very welcome decision the author refers in a Nachwort on
pp. 75-7. As was to be expected and quite rightly, he sees in it a
support for his position on the part of high ecclesiastical authority.
The Bavarian Bishops' decision became known in Germany to the
general public through the daily press on 16 October. I am writing
these lines at the end of December and it is not yet ofiicially known
what attitude the Neumann family have assumed towards the
Bishops' invitation. The information is rather contradictory and un-
certain, but in any case not satisfactory. Indeed Dr Deutsch even
says that he knows from an authoritative source that again Therese
^ That is in a clinic not of exclusively religious character.
260
PART 130] Review 251
Neiunaim's father has not consented to have his daughter placed
under observation. " Apparently it is the same story as before. To
people who view one more investigation as necessary she (Theresa
Neumann) will say, '
Yes ', but should the people be in earnest she
seeks refuge behind her father's refusal "
(p. 76).
It must be admitted that such a circumstance is highly to be re-
gretted, and Dr Deutsch is quite justified in saying that if Theresa
persists in such an attitude (it should be added that she is thirty-
four !) she will be unable to prevent outsiders from interpreting it in
an unfavourable sense. " They will come to this conclusion : there
is deception here, and the father who so obstinately refuses knows
about it "
(p. 76). As to which all sensible people will be of the same
opinion.
The unwillingness of the Neumann family to have the matter
properly investigated is the more unpardonable since, as pointed out
by Dr Deutsch, Therese's alleged abstinence from all food (barring a
fraction of a Host every day) would, if genuine, be a marvel in com-
parison with which the resurrection of Lazarus sinks into insignifi-
cance. In the latter case a miracle occurred onlv once, the organs of
the dead Lazarus merely resuming their natural functions. In the
case of Therese, ostensibly living for years without partaking of any
food, a new miracle must take place day after day, hour after hour.
And this violation of the laws of Nature such as the world has not
yet seen could be made patent to every man of goodwill without
much difficulty ! God's Almightiness could be demonstrated irre-
futably before millions of men !
" Why therefore does not this
happen ? Because Therese Neumann and her parents do not wish
it and view such an ordeal as too hard "
(p. 65).
Why, on the other hand, should a new investigation take place
outside of Konnersreuth ? Because, supposing Therese eats, drinks,
etc., notwithstanding her assertions to the contrary, " it is impossible
to keep the matter secret from the whole world without accomplices.
These possibly existing accomplices were not then^ under observa-
tion and this is a serious flaw in the former investigation. Such a
flaw can be eliminated only by remoidng Therese Neumann out of
her environment "
(p. 69).
Whilst entirely agreeing in this respect with the learned author I
am ready to go one step farther and to suggest for our researches
one more canon of evidence formulated somewhat as follows : We
must bear in mind that with some people conviction beyond a certain
degree of intensity is apt to engender at least " semi "-complicity.
To generalise such a statement would be highly unintelligent and
[Dr Deutsch has in view the sj'stematic observations carried out at Konners-
reuth from 14 to 28 July 1927 by four Franciscan nuns. These observations
were very conscientiously made, but in the author's opinion inconclusive].
252 Review [part
unjust, but to ignore the possible existence of such a frame of mind
and its consequences would be equally faulty and risky. Nor is there
any reason to doubt that intensely religious people can be also subject
to such a temptation—and even occasionally yield to it.
Meanwhile let us return to Dr Deutsch's work. It does not deal
either with the stigmata or with the other alleged " phenomena
"
such as the erhobener Zustand, Therese Neumann's claim to act as
" the voice of Christ on earth ", and the like. These omissions are
due, it appears, to the fact that here " it is not for the physician to
decide alone. Theology having also to say its weighty word "
(p. 73).
Some people, of whom I am one, will regret the author's discretion,
especially with regard to the stigmata.
Up to page 60 Dr Deutsch's book is devoted to a detailed disprov-
ing of the medical part of Herr Fritz Gerlich's work Die Stigrnatisierte
von Konnersreuth (Munich 1929). Here Herr Gerlich, who was a
Protestant when he wrote the two volumes in question, but who has
long since been an enthusiastic believer in Konnersreuth, had
attempted to show that in Therese there is no hysteria and that she
had in fact suffered before being " miraculously " cured from various
organic lesions and troubles.
Herr Gerlich, it should be added, is no physician. And his
diagnosis is mostly retrospective. Dr Deutsch systematically and
pitilessly demolishes it. Into the details of this process of demolition
I need not go. Suffice it for my purpose to reproduce the following
lines from p. 59 :
" In my opinion Gerlich's '
diagnosis '
may best be
summed up in the form of the following ' prescription '. Take a series
of the biggest possible improbabihties, mix them up with this or that
impossibility, savour it all with vivid fancy and a few quotations and
squeeze it all in the form of preconceived opinion—and here you
have a diagnostic which '
without erroneous conclusion and without
hypothesis '
explains everything directly by the law of cause and
effect."
The case is still sub judice. But gradually the scales are being
turned more and more against Konnersreuth and the Neumann
claims. In any case if the Bavarian Bishops' desire as to the stig-
matica being examined in a clinic is definitely not complied with,^
^ If on the one hand no one can compel Therese Neumann and her family
to comply with that wish, the Roman Catholic Church, as rightly pointed out
by Dr Deutsch, has on the other sufficient means to prevent Konnersreuth
from being henceforth looked upon as a place of pilgrimage. That Church
can forbid for instance, ecclesiastics such as Chaplain Fahsel to move from
one town to another preaching about Therese Neumann and attempting to
identify Konnersreuth and the Catholic faith, it can put an end to the pubh-
cation of writings which " under the cloak of piety " represent all disbelievers
in Konnersreuth as men without faith, bad Catholics, etc. " It could finally
leave Therese Neumann entirely to herself "
(p. 73).
130] Review 253
psychical researchers, I submit, will be most undoubtedly entitled to
conclude that the Konnersreuth " phenomena " had better be left
severely alone. In which conclusion they are sure to be supported by
several learned Roman Catholics, both priests and laymen, Dr
Deutsch being one of the most prominent among them. We are
happy to see him in this protracted and tedious struggle between
creduUty and bigotry on one side and on the other the purely scien-
tific standpoint—which in this case at least is completely free from
all anti-religious bias—championing the cause of unmitigated Truth.
P.-P.-S.
REPORT OF A SERIES OF SITTINGS WITH RUDI
SCHNEIDER.
•I. Introduction.
By Lord Charles Hope.
The following report is based on a series of experimental sittings
held with Rudi Schneider in London during October, November and
December 1932.
I had already been present at some thkty-five sittings with Schneider
while he was employed by the National Laboratory of Psychical
Research in 1929-30 and early in 1932, and at three sittings in Paris
in the autumn of 1930 at the Institut Metapsychique. In view of the
interesting report Les Pouvoirs inconnus de VEsprit sur la Matiere
issued by Dr Osty (Director of the Institut Metapsychique of Paris)
and his son M. Marcel Osty on experiments conducted by them with
Rudi Schneider in October 1930 to December 1932, I was anxious
to arrange a series of sittings with this medium, and, if possible, to
repeat the absorption effects of infra-red rays noted by Osty as
taking place in Schneider's presence when he was in trance.
As one of the criticisms raised against Dr Osty's report has been
his omission to publish the names of most of the sitters present during
his experiments, the names of those present at the sittings mentioned
in detail in this report will be found in the notes of the sittings.
As far as seemed possible, I got those people to help me whose
chief interest lay in the question of whether or not the phenomena
produced in the presence of Rudi Schneider could be accepted as
genuine or not. By the term " genuine " I mean produced in some
way other than by fraud. Unfortunately, as most people interested
in this subject from a scientific point of view are extremely busy men,
it was clearly impossible to make them responsible for the conduct
of the experiments, but I was able to obtain competent assistance
in the matter of the apparatus used at some of the sittings, and at
all times I tried to coiiform to any suggestions made by responsible
persons as to the control, etc. of the medium during the experiments.
I was fortunate enough to enlist the interest of Lord Rayleigh in
the sittings and he kindly lent a considerable proportion of the
apparatus used for the experiments with infra-red rays, details of
which are given in this report. Comments by Mr C. V. C. Herbert,
Lord Rayleigh, Professor Eraser-Harris, Dr William Brown, Mr
C. C. L. Gregory, Mr Gerald Heard and Dr B. Wheeler Robinson,
as to their impressions of the phenomena witnessed by them and the
p 255
266 Lord Charles Hope [part
conditions under which, these phenomena were produced, will be
found in this report.
My special thanks are due to the Dowager Lady Eayleigh, who
very kindly allowed her drawing-room to be used for sittings ; to
Mr C. V. C. Herbert, who made himself responsible for the smooth
working of the apparatus employed, a task entailing much time and
trouble ; to Captain the Hon. Victor Cochrane-Baillie, who made
himself responsible for taking the notes ; and to another friend of
mine who bore a considerable share of the expenses entailed.
Thirteen sittings took place at 65 Cadogan Gardens, the residence
of the Dowager Lady Eayleigh, and fourteen at 16 Queensberry
Place, in a smnce-room which I had hired exclusively from the London
Spiritualist Alliance.
It was at first intended to hold as many sittings as possible at 65
Cadogan Gardens, but when I realised that the phenomena in
question were becoming increasingly weak and sporadic I determined
to see if a change of rooms would make any apparent difference.
The room at 16 Queensberry Place was considerably smaller and
empty of superfluous furniture. What seemed more likely to help
was the psychological factor that the medium had given successful
sittings in the same room on his fijst visit to London during 1929.
The first sitting was held at Queensberry Place because the other
room was not yet ready. The second to the tenth sittings held at
Cadogan Gardens were chiefly iitilised for experiments with photo-
graphy by infra-red rays. Although fairly frequent absorptions of
the ray were registered, nothing appeared on the plates. Possible
explanations of this are dealt with by Mr Herbert in his report.
The control of the medium, both manual and by means of muslin
screens, quite excluded the possibility of the medium having placed
some material object in the ray and withdrawn it before a photo-
graph could be taken. The effects on the photo-electric cell of the
absorptions of the rays sometimes persisted considerably longer than
it took to expose the plates.
At no time had the medium access to either of the rooms used
except while the sittings were being held, and he was then never left
alone in the room.
On the whole, the phenomena noted were weaker and less frequent
than those reported as having taken place with the same medium
elsewhere, but the results obtained go far to support the claims put
forward by Dr Osty in his report. His experiments lasted fifteen
months, whereas ours covered only eleven weeks.
It will be noted that at Cadogan Gardens fairly frequent absorp-
tions in the infra-red rays were noted at most of the sittings held
there, whereas most of the movements of objects took place at
Queensberry Place.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 257
As may be seen in the table at p. 278, at only ten sittings out of a
total of twenty-seven were both ray absorptions and movement of
objects noted. This includes three sittings at which the ray absorp-
tions were very small and infrequent.
Although it would be dangerous to jump to hasty conclusions in a
question seemingly affected by so many dissimilar factors, the impres-
sion given me was that the medium found it easier to achieve absorp-
tions in the ray than the movement of objects. This supposition
was supported by his successes in ray absorptions when the muslin
panels were in place between him and the ray, whereas under similar
conditions no movements of objects took place. (N.B.—Dr Osty
reports that at some of his sittings objects were moved which had
been placed behind muslin curtains.)
Another suggestion which may tentatively be made, judging
from the results obtained, was that a success in. one direction usually
ended in a failure in the other. This, however, may have been
caused by the medium's apparent preference for success with
material objects rather than with the rays, and so lack of success
with the former may have led to more attention being paid to the
latter when his powers were at a low ebb or in some way misdirected.
The medium was always controlled by one of the sitters sitting
opposite to him and holding him by the wrists or across the palms
of his hands. The sitter immediately to the left of the controller,
the sub-controller, put his or her right hand on the medium's right
hand or between his hands.
The controller placed his feet outside the medium's feet. Person-
ally, when controlling, I always placed my feet against the front legs
of the medium's chair.
The remaining sitters joined hands, and the sitter on the exteme
left passed his hand across to the next sitter. The incident of the
white light being shone during the sitting on 25 November was of
special interest inasmuch that it happened accidentally. The effect
which the white light apparently had upon the medium was con-
siderable, and the incident therefore enabled an experiment to be
made on him which otherwise would have been impossible without
forfeiting the confidence of his trance personality, " Olga." The
sitters who by their positions adjacent to the medium were best
able to judge of the sequence of events and the general effect on the
medium have made special mention of this in their reports.
When the medium had regained his normal state he appeared not
to know that anything unusual had occurred. He did not complain
of feeling any ill effects either then or later. As far as I could judge
from what was said by the medium just after the incident and at a
subsequent sitting " Olga-Rudi " seemed disposed to blame " her-
self " more than us for the accident.
258 Lord Charles Hope [part
The notes were always taken during the sittings (except when
otherwise stated), and are substantially as at first written down
;
but small errors had sometimes to be corrected and these alterations,
together with a copy of the notes of each sitting, were sent to most
of the sitters as soon as possible after the sittings in question. A
few extra notes have been added by me from time to time, and these
additions are indicated in the report.
A word must be added on the subject of the " cold air " and
" cold breezes " frequently mentioned by the sitters and often
reported in the notes. This phenomenon was not checked in any
way, and indeed was impossible to check, but as the impression was
common to all or nearly all the persons taking part in the sittings,
it was duly mentioned in the notes. Although this feeling of " cold
air " was more frequently remarked upon by those sitting near the
medium, that was not, by any means, always the case, and accidental
movements, cramped positions or the perception of the breath of
the sitters do not seem to be a sufficient explanation. Sometimes
one sitter after another would remark upon this sensation as though
an area of cold air was passing along in front of the sitters. I do not
remember anyone complaining of cold air roimd the back of his
neck. On the whole, however, I am inclined to discount these
sensations as being purely subjective, although worthy of mention.
It would be useless to attempt to judge of the effect, if any, that
individual sitters had on the production of phenomena. I think the
evidence, such as it is, supports the theory that the medium alone
supplies all the " force " manifested by the movements of objects
and the absorptions of infra-red rays. Such, however, I believe, was
not the opinion held by the medium, who, both when normal and in
trance, seemed to think the sitters played an important part in the
production of the necessary " force." The medium, while in trance,
made almost continuous movements with his fingers along the arms
and legs of the controller and arm of the sub-controller, presumably
to gather this " force." Towards the end of each sitting a contrary
movement was made of giving back the " force " supposed to have
been collected from the sitters.
As the question has been raised with regard to the presence of
Fraulein Mangl at the sittings given by Rudi, her fiance, it is as well
to point out that she attended only eight out of the total of twenty-
seven, including the special sitting of 25 November, to which no
evidential value was attached. Also, although we had no specific
reason for suspecting her we always bore in mind the possibility that
she might try to help out the phenomena, and took suitable pre-
cautions. Neither she nor Rudi ever showed any desire that she
should be invited to the sittings.
Since the results being obtained were not as frequent as I had
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 259
hoped for, I refrained from varying the controllers more than seemed
necessary, as in my previous experience of the medmm it had seemed
to me that new controllers tended to upset him for a time or two.
" Olga-Kudi " at times showed an inclination to blame certain
sitters for the lack of phenomena, but I think it was nierely their
presence at poor or negative sittings that associated them in the
medium's mind with failure on his part.
Towards the end of the series of sittings I did not introduce any
fresh sitters, and for the last three sittings I had intended to ask only
those sitters who had, either at this or at previous series of sittings,
witnessed especially strong phenomena. For two sittings this plan
was adhered to, but without any apparent benefit. Then the sequence
was broken by " Olga-Kudi
"
's demand for an extra sitting, to which
all the sitters were unable to come. The conditions necessary for the
production of strong and frequent phenomena seemed as elusive to
" Olga-Kudi " as they were mysterious to us.
. t.
•
r
It may be useful if I add a brief note on the principles of the infra-
red apparatus used during these sittings. The visible spectrum
ends with red, but beyond it
" light " continues into the mfra-red.
The infra-red wave-lengths, though they produce no visible hght,
and thus are apparently less harmful to the medium and his " powers,"
are capable of being detected by appropriate apparatus, such as a
photo-electric cell. Therefore, if a beam of infra-red hght is directed
at such a cell and if the cell is connected with a recording apparatus,
it is possible to measure the amount of infra-red light that reaches
the cell. This, again, makes it possible to detect any interruption
(absorption) of the infra-red beam. It is on this principle that the
infra-red apparatus is based.
II. Individual Reports.
1. By C. V. C. Herbert, B.A., F.R.A.S.
During the autumn and winter of 1932 I assisted at a series of
experiments with the Austrian medium, Rudi Schneider. These
experiments were carried out by Lord Charles Hope, who had asked
me to be responsible for the scientific part of the work as regards its
physical aspect. The experiments were undertaken under consider-
able difficulties, chief among which were the following: lack of
experience ^
; lack of workshop facilities and skilled assistance ;
lack of funds. As regards the first, I feel confident that much better
results could be obtained in any future work in the light of the
1 This only apphed to the scientific side : Lord Charles Hope has had
considerable experience in the general conduct of sittings.
260 Lord Charles Hope [part
knowledge acquired during these experiments. The second difl&-
culty was a very real one. Anyone used to laboratory work knows
the troubles and waste of time inherent in the use of improvised
apparatus, particularly in the dark. We could not try many of the
experiments we would have wished owing to lack of apparatus,
which the third difficulty prevented us from buying or having made.
In spite of the generosity of many friends, little money was available
for the purchase of apparatus, and though we are deeply indebted
to various individuals and institutions who lent us instruments, it
was impossible to borrow all that we needed. Nor with our other
activities were we able to devote as much time to the work as we
would have wished. It is hoped that we have again demonstrated that
the subject is a sufficiently important one for future experiments to
be carried out under conditions in which these obstacles are removed.
Before the beginning of the present series of experiments, I had
had a number of sittings ^ with Rudi Schneider, at some of which I
had used an infra-red absorption apparatus, which had been specially
designed to exclude as far as possible the possibility of mechanical
fraud. Rather to my surprise, the instrument showed unmistakable
absorptions of the beam on the very first evening that it was used.
Schneider had had no opportunity of examining the apparatus
before the sitting, nor had he any clear idea of its construction.^
With these apparatus I noticed, independently of Dr Osty of Paris,
that the effect on the beam was at times oscillatory, having a fre-
quency of twice that of the subject's respiratory period.^
The experiments now to be considered were started with a view to
obtaining direct photographs of Osty's substance invisible,'^ by means
of an apparatus designed and constructed by Lord Rayleigh, who
very kindly lent the apparatus and superintended its erection and
use. Lord Rayleigh has already described his apparatus,^ and the
reader is referred to his paper for the details of its construction.
Here it will suffice to say that the method used is " instantaneous
"
silhouette photography by infra-red radiation, a photo-electric
arrangement being used to show when the occultations of the beam
are taking place. Ilford infra-red plates are used in conjunction
with a filter of cobalt glass. The apparatus worked excellently ; but
the plates obtained were all either complete blanks, or showed only
such trivial markings as might be due to defects in the emulsion.
Deflections were noticed in the galvanometer of the photo-electric
^ By the courtesy of Mr Harry Price, of the National Laboratory of Psychical
Research.
^ See page 264 for details of the construction.
' See E. and M. Osty, Les Pouvoirs inconnus de VEsprit sur la Matiere
(Paris 1932).
« Osty, op. cit. 6 p^oc. 8.P.R. (1933), xU. 89.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings tvith RucU Schneider 261
circuit, and plates were taken, often when the deflection was at its
maximum ; but no sign of any occulting substance could be seen
on the negatives. The substance invisible was invisible still. These
apparently paradoxical results can probably be explained by the
fact that the plate and the photo-electric cell were not accurately
matched as regards their frequency response characteristics. It
had been hoped that large deflections would be recorded, corres-
ponding to a diminution of the total radiation of the beam of 50%
or more. Had this occurred, it would have been impossible for the
occulting substance to escape detection by the plate. Unfortunately,
no large deflections were obtained : and it must be assumed that
7000 8000 9000 10000
ANGSTROMS
A. Cell and Tilter. B. Plate and Filter.
Fig. 1. —Rayleigh Apparatus : Response Curves.
those corresponding to the photographs taken were caused by the
absorption of the longer wave-lengths of the relative spectrum, to
which the plate was comparatively insensitive. Thus it was
computed that a complete cut off of the wave-lengths over 9000
Angstroms would have reduced the output from the cell by 25%,
while only reducing the effect on the plate by 2% (see fig. 1). The
figures are approximate only. A body of large area, absorbing only
the longer wave-lengths, might well have caused a considerable
galvanometer deflection, while producing so faint an image on the
plate as to be invisible.
The experiments thus tended to show that the diminution in the
intensity of the infra-red beam was due to the absorption of the
longer wave-lengths only.^ They also indicated that the absorptions
were not due to mechanical fraud.
^ Cp. Osty, op. cit., p. 84.
262 Lord Charles Hope [part
The general arrangement of tlie apparatus was as follows (see
Plate I) : tlie sources and filter were contained in a box screwed to a
rigid table ; a similar table, placed 12 feet away, beld the camera
and cell, wbicli were also screwed down. The large lens, 12 inches
in diameter and of 3 feet focal length, was held in a wooden mount,
screwed to a smaller table, placed midway between the source and
the camera. All three tables were screwed to the floor of the labora-
tory. An artificial flower was placed close to the large lens, on the
camera side, and the medium was asked to concentrate the " force
"
above the flower. The wires from the cell were led to a light-proof
cabinet, containing the galvanometer and illuminating apparatus,
and also, in most of the experiments, a drum camera for obtaining a
record of the deflections on a strip of sensitised paper. An observer
in the cabinet signalled to the operator at the infra-red camera when
a deflection took place. Later, a pneumatic release was employed,
so that the exposure could be made by the observer at the galvano-
meter. The camera operator had then only to change the plates,
which he did at a signal from the observer that a photograph had
been taken. When the plate was changed, the operator signalled
back that all was ready for another exposure.^ The galvanometer
used had a quick period, so that the danger of the occulting sub-
stance escaping before the photograph was taken was not great.
No trouble was experienced in the use of the apparatus, and a large
number of plates were taken.
In order to increase the spectrum range into the longer infra-red,
a few exposures were made on the new Eastman plates sensitised
with xenocyanin, in conjunction with a dyed gelatine filter supplied by
the Eadiovisor Company. The same cell was used. The sensitivity
curve of this plate and filter went deeper into the intra-red than that
of the cell. These plates were, unfortunately, much slower than the
Ilford plates, and had the disadvantage ofrequiring supersensitisation
before use, and of having to be stored on ice. The exposure was in-
creased from 1/lOOth or l/25th of a second to l/5th or 1/2 of a second.
Unfortunately, owing to some defect in the emulsion, the negatives
were so covered with spots and blotches that it was impossible to tell if
there was any image or not. A second batch of plates, said to be free
from this defect, did not arrive in time for use in the experiments.
After the failure of the Eastman plates, all attempts with the
Rayleigh apparatus were abandoned, and we concentrated on
obtaining graphical records of the infra-red absorptions, and on
experiments in telekinesis. Up till this time, the work had been
carried out in a room at no. 65 Cadogan Gardens, kindly lent by the
Dowager Lady Rayleigh ; but at this stage, a move was made to a
^ The signalling was carried out by means of small red lamps controlled
by bell pushes.
PLATE I.
The ]Medium's Cage, and the Muslin Screen ; the hitter shown raised
to give access to the " Cabinet and apparatus.
PLATE II.
Interior of Oalvanomctcr Caljinet at Ki (^ucen.sberry Place. On the
upper shelf are the variou.s control .switches, and at the far end the lead
anti-vibration table for the galvanometers. Below are the various
meters, and at the end on the left the thermioni<- amplifier. On the left,
hand wall is the rheostat controlling the " Cabinet " lamp.
131] Report of a Series of sittings with Rudi Schneider 263
smaller room. This new laboratory was set up in one of the seance-
rooms at the London Spiritualist Alliance, 16 Queensberry Place. It
may be objected that a scientific investigation should not have been
carried out in a spiritualistic institution ; but against this it must be
said that the room was hired by us for the full period of the experi-
ments, that we had the charge of the only key, and that the room
was inspected by a firm of builders ^ and was pronoimced to be free
from trap-doors, etc. Schneider was not allowed into the room
except during the sittings, and was never left alone in it. This room
made a very convenient laboratory, and adjoining it there was a
well-fitted dark-room for the development of the galvanometer
records, etc. The arrangements were similar to those at Cadogan
Gardens. A light-proof cabmet was built to hold the galvanometers
and apparatus, and the wiring was installed on a more permanent
footing than had been possible before (see Plate II).
The great disadvantage of this laboratory was that it was ex-
tremely susceptible to mechanical vibration.^ To overcome this,
the galvanometers were mounted on a heavy lead table, supported
on rubber sponges. The iafra-red projector and cell were also
mounted on sponges ; but even when this had been done, trouble
was sometimes experienced from vibration.
The apparatus most often used in this laboratory was a battery-
driven projector with a dyed gelatine filter,^ transmitting a beam
on to a caesium-on-silver cell.* The projector and cell were mounted
on blocks, screwed to a board, standing on rubber sponges. The
leads from the cell to the galvanometer cabinet were run in an
earthed lead-covered cable. The leads supplying the projector
were run along the ceiling of the room. The current for the projector,
galvanometer field, etc. was obtained from a battery of motor-car
accumulators contained in the galvanometer cabinet. The cell could
be connected directly to a galvanometer and battery, or the out-
put could be fed to a thermionic amplifier. This was of a tyjDe de-
signed by me for stellar photometry,^ and consisted of an arrange-
ment of paired triodes. Considerable amplification of the photo-
electric current was obtainable, and the apparatus was stable
enough for use in conjunction with a sensitive galvanometer. Good
results had been obtained with this instrument at Cadogan Gardens ;
1 Messrs White and Johnson, Ltd., whose report can be inspected, on
appUcation, at the Rooms of the Society.
^ The room was at the top of the house, which was situated close to streets
carrying heavy traffic. It was also above the lines of the Underground
railway.
* Supplied by the Radiovisor Company
* Type CM, General Electric Company
5 British Patent no. 373622, 1931.
264 Lord Charles Hope [part
but at Queensberry Place, owing to the residual vibration in the
laboratory, it was impossible to use it at anything like full sensitivity.
For this reason, the direct coupling of the cell to the galvanometer
was generally preferred. The galvanometer most used was a moving-
coil instrument of the Moll type, made by the Cambridge Instrument
Company.1 Its period was 1-3 seconds. It was used with a damping
resistance, and its sensitivity could be varied by means of a shunt-
box. A Tinsley moving coil was sometimes used.^ This was more
sensitive than the Moll, but had a much slower period.
The infra-red beam could be completely enclosed by means of
alternative wooden frameworks, covered with string netting or fine
muslin (see Plate III). The cell was moimted in a small box, with
a window of red glass, to absorb the luminosity from the cell.^
Records of the movements of the galvanometer were obtained with
the drum camera.* The times at which the drum was started and
stopped were noted, so that the exact times of any absorptions could
be computed by measuring the record. The paper moved at a speed of
12 inches an hour, which was fast enough for the Moll galvanometer.
Another instrument occasionally used was the original enclosed
infra-red apparatus,^ mentioned at the beginning of this paper. It
consisted of a box, covered with fine muslin, and furnished with a
tightly-fitting, muslin-covered lid. Inside were a battery-driven
projector, and a selenium cell and single-stage amplifier. The
latter fed a milliamperemeter, and also a relay, working an electric
bell. The whole apparatus, including the bell, relay and all batteries
(but with the exception of the meter), was contained in the box.
The circuit was arranged to exclude the effect of temperature on the
cell. By carefully controlling the leads to the meter, it was assured
that the apparatus could not be influenced, except by occulting the
beam. The apparatus was once used at Queensberry Place,^ when
small deflections of the meter were noted ; but the movement was
not sufiicient to ring the bell.' The deflections were, however, greater
than could have been produced by inserting a wire through the
muslin. The lid was sealed on, and the muslin was carefully ex-
amined by me, before and after the sitting, and was found to be
free from pimctures. The observers are confident that no attempt
^ Kindly lent by the Imperial College of Science.
^ Kindly lent by Lord Rayleigh.
^ Tbe luminosity was very noticeable in the dark. See Nature, 3 September
1932, p. 365.
* Also lent by Lord Rayleigh.
^ This was designed by Mr Gregory and myself, and constructed in the
workshops of the University of London Observatory.
« Sitting of 4 October 1932.
' About 50% absorption had to take place to work the relay.
PLATE III.
Infra-red Apparatus used at the sitting of 6 December I'.i.'iL'.
projector is to the right ; the cell to the left.
The
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 265
could have been made to affect the beam by such methods as blowing
in smoke, or inserting a fork of wires through the muslin. The box
was placed under a faint red lamp, so that the white surface of the
muslin was visible throughout the experiment. In my opinion, the
deflections were imdoubtedly produced by the medium by
paranormal means. The apparatus was also once used at Cadogan
Gardens, but on this occasion the lid was removed from the box.
The box was, however, so placed that it was impossible for the black
curtains of the
'
' cabinet
'
' to enter the path of the ray. Considerable
deflections were noted, and the bell rang twice. Vibratory move-
ments of the needle were also observed, having a period of twice that
of the medium's breathing.^
In addition to the above, other appliances were used ;
for example,
a projector consisting of a low-temperature source and a thermopile
detector. It was designed by Lord Rayleigh, who kindly lent the
necessary apparatus. The source was an electrically heated flat-
iron, whose radiation was received by a Moll thermopile ^ connected
to a small reflecting galvanometer.^ No deflections were observed.
The medium complained that the heat from the iron inhibited the
phenomena, and asked that the apparatus should not be used again.
A second photographic apparatus was also tried at Queensberry
Place, since there was not enough space in this laboratory for the
Rayleigh apparatus. It consisted of a low-voltage lamp with a small
bunched filament, which transmitted a beam on to an Ilford plate,
protected by a focal plane shutter. A dyed gelatine filter was used.
The method of use was as follows : a small artificial flower was
placed as near the plate as possible, and the medium was asked to
concentrate the " force " above the flower. The projector was
turned off, and the shutter opened. The photograph was taken by
switching the current to the lamp on and off by means of a key, at a
signal from the medium that the " force " was in position. The
definition with this camera was not so good as with the Rayleigh
apparatus, but trial exposure of fingers held above the flower gave
quite good images. Only a few plates were taken, and though one
showed a faint marking, it was not considered definite enough for
serious consideration. The others were complete blanks.
Results.
Having reviewed the instrumental equipment, it will now be
convenient to consider the results obtained. The infra-red photo-
^
Cp. Osty, op. cit. We had noticed the same thing independently, in a
former series of experiments in the spring of 1932. See p. 260.
* Made by the Cambridge Instrument Company.
* Supplied by Messrs GrifSn and Tatlock.
266 Lord Charles Hope [part
graphs, as stated above, were unsuccessful ; but a number of galvano-
meter tracings were produced, stowing very definite occultations of
the beam. Those made with the Rayleigh apparatus are not very
satisfactory ; as owing to the projector being fed from the electric
mains,^ the voltage of which was continually fluctuating, the path
traced by the spot of light is very irregular. But when observing
the deflections taking place, it was very easy to differentiate be-
tween the comparatively slow up and down movements due to the
voltage fluctuation, and the quick downward movements due to
occidtation of the beam."^ On the record, however, the occultation
movements are somewhat masked by the fluctuations. It is quite
easy to distinguish the larger occultations ; but the general ap-
pearance of the record is not very good. With the later apparatus,
a battery-driven projector was used, and the occultations stand out
clearly from a perfectly straight line of zero absorption. Occasion-
ally the apparatus was affected by mechanical vibration, chiefly
owing to the subsidence of the rubber sponges under the baseboard
of the projector and cell ; but movements due to this source were
always easily detectable, being of a totally different character from
the occultation movements. An excellent safeguard against vibra-
tion movements being mistaken for occultations existed in the fact
that the medium, in recovering from his hypnotic condition, strug-
gled violently—so much so that the whole room was shaken. If any
movement of the spot occurred during this period, the record was dis-
carded. Out of a total of sixty-eight strips, only three were rejected
for vibration ; and on each of these occasions, it was found that the
rubber sponges under the apparatus had subsided, so that the base-
board was making contact with the floor. Mechanical vibrations
also affected the suspension of the galvanometer, causing it to vibrate
very quickly. The only result of this was a slight thickening of the
line on the paper, the thickening being symmetrical about the line.
The movements were very frequent,^ but were of small amplitude
and did not interfere in any way.
In Plate IV is reproduced a portion of one of the records obtained
on 6 December. The projector and cell were protected by a closely-
fitting muslin cage, which completely enclosed the beam. The
apparatus is shown in Plate III. It was placed in front of the cur-
tains of the " cabinet," with the projector end nearest to Schneider,
1 The 200 volt D.C. lighting mains were used, the projector lamps being fed
through a resistance.
^ With the Rayleigh apparatus, the absorptions caused movements of the
spot from left to right : with the other apparatus from right to left ; one
paper moved downwards.
* Thoy were probably caused by the passing of the trains on the Under-
ground railway.
PLATE IV.
Portion of Galvanometer Record obtained at the sitting of 6 December
1932. Moll Galvanometer ; caesium cell ; no amplitication.
PLATE V («).
HRS. 19 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 2000 -041!
I I I I I I
' ' M I I I I I I I I I I I I ; I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
6cMS -1 |-'6cMS
4 9cMS-:i i i
23 November 1932. 2nd Section I.
PLATE V (b).
HRS. 20 09 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55
r I I I I I
i I I I I I
I I I 1 I I . ! , I I I I I I 1 I I I
I I I I 1 I
I
I I I
I I
I
?,CMS. 8,CMS.
U U IOO%ABSORBTIONHOCMS.
IT- 22"
23 November 1932. 2nd Section IL
Pvccords obtained during the sitting of 23 November 1932. Moll Gal-
vanometer ; caesium cell ; no amplification.
PLATE VL
I L_l I L_l I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
LJ I LJ I Lj L
HRS. 0,20 ,30 ,40 ,50
Record obtained during the sitting of 25 November 1932. Moll Gal-
vanometer ; caesium cell ; no amplification.
131] Report of a Series of Sittmgs tvith Rudi Schneider 267
who was held by Lord Charles Hope and Miss A. Eeutiner. The
other sitters were the following i
: Captain the Hon. Victor Cochrane-
Baillie, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Dr William Brown, ]\Irs William Brown
and Professor Fraser-Harris. I was in the galvanometer cabinet,
and Miss W. A. Shafto was taking the notes. There was a faint red
light above the apparatus. The notes taken during the period when
the deflections took place were as follows :
Time.
9.46. Medium :
" You must be cheerful." "
9.52. „ " Everyone count up to five." This is done.
10.7. „ " All count five again." This is done.
10.10. „ " A little darker until the power is stronger."
The red light is reduced in strength by means of the
rheostat in the galvanometer cabinet.
10.11. Medium :
" Ask the gentleman in the little house ^ if he
has seen something." Mr Herbert says " Not yet."
10.12. The medium pinches Lord Charles Hope.*
10.14. The medium pinches Lord Charles Hope.
10.15. Mr Herbert records very small movements.
10.16. Medium :
" I am in the rays now."
10.17. Medium: "Does my friend see something now?" Mr
Herbert reports that there was a larger movement just
before the medium spoke.
10.18. Medium :
" The power is going away from the box ^
towards the cabinet."
No other occultations were noted during that section of the
sitting. It will be seen that the occultations were predicted by the
medium. The last movement, which is the largest, represents an
absorption of 8% of the total intensity of the beam.
This record is typical of most of those obtained ;
the absorptions
being generally of about the same order of magnitude. At an earlier
sitting,^ however, very large occultations were observed, reaching a
maximum of 80% of the total intensity of the beam (see Plate V).
The apparatus used was not provided with a protective cover, and I
^ In the order in which they sat, the first being nearest the medium.
2 The medium spoke in German. His words were translated by Miss
Reutiner, and repeated to the secretary m EngUsh.
^ i.e. the galvanometer cabinet.
* This was generally a signal that something was going to happen.
^ " The box " is the infra-red apparatus.
6 23 November 1932.
268 Lord Charles Hope .
•
.
. [part
thought that the curtains of the cabinet had been introduced into
the beam by the " force." In order to test this, at the next sitting ^
an arrangement of threads was stretched across between the appara-
tus and the curtains. The galvanometer record obtained is shown
in Plate VI. At first, only small movements were recorded ; but
eventually the spot rose to a position of 78% absorption. Instead,
however, of returning to zero absorption, it only fell to 68%, where it
remained steady. It was obvious that the curtain had entered the
beam, and had become entangled in the threads. Then followed
several attempts by the medium to get the curtain out again. The
spot fell to 36% and then rose to 64%, where it remained steady.
Then it fell suddenly to 30% and came to rest at 60%. A little
later there was another downward movement, after which the spot
rose again to 60%. Finally, a small table, standing near the curtains,
was violently upset, and, in falling, dislodged the thread that had
been holding the curtain. ^ During this performance, the medium
was asked if any object had been introduced into the ray, and the
reply was that the absorptions were due to the " power " alone.^
As regards most of the telekinetic phenomena, it is undesirable
for me to enter into a discussion, as I was generally stationed in the
galvanometer cabinet, and was thus not an actual observer of the
movement of objects. On one occasion, however, an excellent
telekinesis took place when I was one of the sitters.* I was seated
directly opposite the red lamp, which illuminated a small table, on
which were placed the objects to be moved. The order of the sitters
was as follows : Professor Fraser-Harris and Mrs Fraser-Harris (both
holding Schneider), Miss Reutiner, Mr C. C. L. Gregory, Lady
Crosfield, Mr Herbert, The Hon. A. C. Strutt, Mrs P. Quilter, Lord
Charles Hope ;
Captain the Hon. Victor Cochrane-Baillie was taking
the notes. The small table was heard to move slightly , and eventually
fell over, coming to rest on its side, with one edge of the top on my
right toe. The legs were pointing towards the " cabinet." At this
stage, the red lamp was turned up, so that the table was clearly
visible. While I was watching it intently, it rose off my toes and then
descended on to them again. The total movement was of the order
of two inches. A little later this movement was repeated. During
both these movements, I could see all four legs very clearly, and I
1 25 November 1932.
^ The table, in falling, dislodged the filter of the projector, and allowed the
escape of white Ught. This brought the sitting to an abrupt end, as the
medium had fallen off his chair.
^ The medium, when in the hypnotic state, is incHned to be deceitful. His
normal character is unusually open and honest. It must be understood,
however, that the movements both of the curtains and of the table were
caused by paranormal means. The medium was held throughout.
4 11 November 1932.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 269
am positive that nothing touched the table on the " cabinet " side.
It might have been possible to raise the table by an arrangement of
fine black threads placed romid the legs ; but as the movement was
a vertical one, this would have involved the existence of some sort
of pulley fixed above the table. Such machinery was out of the
question, as it would have been impossible to fix it up and remove it
again during the sitting.^ There can have been nothing in the nature
of an extending rod, held by Schneider, such as is sometimes used by
fraudulent mediums, as, apart from the fact that Schneider was held
by Professor and Mrs Fraser-Harris, such a structure must have
been visible to me. Nor was there anything corresponding to the so-
called ectoplasm, described by some investigators. Granting the
integrity of the sitters on my left and right hand, it seems to me
impossible that the table could have been moved by normal means.
The abnormally quick breathing of the medium during his hyp-
notic state is a phenomenon to be discussed by physiologists ; but I
would mention that at our request gramophone records were made of
this by the Gramophone Company, Ltd. Two records were prepared
at a special sitting held at the Company's studios.^ I was present
in the recording-room during the making of the records, and can
testify that the breathing recorded was typical of that which occurs
throughout Schneider's hypnotic state.
In conclusion, I would wish to express my very best thanks to all
those who assisted me with the experiments. To Professor Pollard
for the loan of the Moll galvanometer ; to Lord Rayleigh for the
loan of a great deal of valuable apparatus, and for much active help
in the experiments ; and last, but by no means least, to my friend
Rudi Schneider, who cheerfully submitted to all our tests and who
bore without complaint all the indignities of being investigated by
suspicious scientists.
2. By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
Mr Herbert has already given an adequate account of those parts
of the investigation with which I was specially connected. I add
one or two remarks.
The apparatus for infra-red photography was not well adapted
for making records of galvanometer deflections : for the large area
of the lens can only be blocked by a large object : and if the absorbing
agency is of restricted linear dimensions, the change of deflection
1 Schneider was searched after the sitting by Professor Fraser-Harris and
Lord Charles Hope. Nothing suspicious was found.
^ Copies of one of these records are obtainable on apphcation to the Secretary
of the Society.
270 Lord Charles Hope [part
will only be a small fraction of the whole deflection, and therefore
difficult to distinguish from accidental disturbances. The photo-
electric arrangements which formed part of this apparatus were in
fact designed for the quite different purpose of giving an indication
of when a photograph should be attempted.
None of the photographs gave the slightest indication that a
defined object was interposed. This may be due, as Mr Herbert
supposes, to the fact that the photo-electric cell is sensitive further
into the infra-red than the plate, and that the absorption occurs only
in this further infra-red region. But two other possibilities remain
open, which I am inclined to favour. It is possible that the obstruct-
ing agency was in for so short a time on these occasions that it was
not caught on the photograph : I have verified by special tests that
this is a feasible explanation, it being possible to cause a movement
of the galvanometer by a movement of the hand across the beam,
so rapid that it cannot be caught within the " reaction time " of
the photographer. Lord Charles Hope thinks that some of the
deflections were too prolonged for this explanation to hold. He may
be right, but on the occasions when I was taking infra-red plates, the
recording drum was not yet in use, and we had nothing but the signals
from the observer at the galvanometer. Alternatively, the unknown
obstructing agent may be of such ill-defined outline that there is
nothing definite to be photographed.
In any further experiments on these lines, an automatic release
by amplifying devices should be tried. With the time and resources
available it was not possible for us to arrange this.
On the general arrangements for the experiments, it should be
remarked that the amomit of light allowed was too small to be of any
practical use, at least to me : though it may have been otherwise
with some of the younger observers. It was necessary therefore to
depend entirely upon the controller. A good deal has been said at
diff'erent times about Schneider being able to release a hand for the
fraudulent production of the phenomena. Even if there is evidence
that he has occasionally done this, I confess it seems to me absurd to
argue as if a man with each hand or arm firmly grasped by a hand
of a trustworthy controller in the prime of life might be regarded as
virtually free.
On one occasion when I was present there was a movement of the
curtains, as evidenced by the noise of the bells attached to them.
No one was there on that occasion whom I could regard as a possible
confederate of the medium. Apart from this I was not fortunate
enough to see anything of the telekinetic phenomena.
The rapid and noisy breathing of the medium is a most striking
phenomenon in itself. I am quite unable to imitate it for more than
a very short period.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 271
In conclusion, I regard this purely as an experimental researcli of
a difficult and laborious kind. Owing to practical obstacles, it is
hard to get results as well established as in other branches of inves-
tigation, or to make such rapid progress. The more need for patience
and perseverance, and for the avoidance of dogmatism.
3. By D. F. Fraser-Harris, M.D., D.Sc. (Lond.), F.R.S.E.
Through the kindness of Lord Charles Hope I was privileged to
be one of a number of sitters in a series of twenty-seven sittings, at
nineteen of which I was able to be present.
The general impression I received was that my fellow workers
were not so much concerned with spectacular experiences as with
investigating any phenomena which might occur in the course of
strictly scientific experimentation. I was particularly impressed
with the thoroughness of the precautions taken against fraud or
legerdemain. Those responsible for the technical arrangements—
•
Lord Charles Hope and Mr C. V. C. Herbert—^seemed to have antici-
pated every possible source of fraud.
Thus in Cadogan Gardens on five occasions the medium and con-
troller were seated inside a specially constructed cage of wood and
muslin, so that the medium was isolated both from the region of the
apparatus and from the circle of sitters.
Further, on several occasions, the path of the infra-red rays was
encased in a rectangular framework completely preventing any
voluntary or accidental himian interference with the rays. Several
times the whole space occupied by the curtains and the apparatus
was screened off from the medium and the circle by panels of muslin
fixed to wooden supports.
I understood from Lord Charles Hope that the main object of these
investigations was to confirm, and if possible extend, the results first
obtained by Dr Eugene Osty with the infra-red rays in the experi-
ments in Paris, October 1930 to December 1931. I was told that
photography by the infra-red rays was to be attempted, being carried
out in conjunction with a photo-electric cell and a galvanometer.
I leave it to those skilled in this very recently developed branch
of physics to speak of the disposition of the infra-red apparatus, but
as one who has used the galvanometer extensively in physiological
work, I should like to emphasise the scientific value of our having
obtained permanent photographic records by means of that instru-
ment.
What interested me as a physiologist was the very fast respiration
(hyperpnoea) of the medium in trance. Respiratory movements
having a frequency of all the following rates per minute were
Q
272 Lord Charles Hope [part
counted—75, 104, 108, 111, 115, 120, 136, 155 up to a maximum of
240.
It is very satisfactory to know that througli Lord Charles's enter-
prise, a gramophone record of this remarkable type of breathing was
obtained on two twelve-inch records. I am inclined to think that
this peculiar shallow though rapid breathing is of the type called
" superior costal." I am doubtful whether the diaphragm itself
rises and falls at the very fast rates just referred to. One would
have supposed this hyperpnoea, kept up as Rudi was able to do it,
at times for an hour or more, would have been fatiguing, but we
could detect no evidence that this was so.
I was controller throughout seven sittings, and in the eighth
during only the latter portion.
What struck me most in that position was the ceaseless muscular
efforts which the medium was making. He convulsed as many
muscles as possible, contorted his body, threw himself first to one
side and then to the other, writhed, groaned, pinched the knees of
the controller and the arm of the sub-controller in his intense efforts
to maintain muscular activity at a maximum. On ruore than one
occasion when my wife was sub-controller her right arm was black
and blue.
One decidedly interesting thing we noticed was that just before
some distinct levitation or telekinesis was about to be produced,
Rudi replaced these very energetic muscular movements by what
we came to call " light plucking." This manoeuvre consisted in his
ceasing to " draw power " (see later) and in his adopting a particu-
larly gentle style of either making light " passes " over the sub-
controller's elbow or of plucking at it in the gentlest way possible.
My wife and I particularly noticed that this technique had taken the
place of the usual vigorous " drawing power " a few seconds before
the violent telekinesis of 25 November occurred.
The expression " drawing power " refers to Rudi's stroking one of
the arms of the controller or of the sub-controller or a little of both.
These stroking movements he can keep up as long as a sitting lasts.
The stroking is always from shoulder to wrist. The reverse movement
is called " giving back power." These movements he performs with
his left hand, because that is the one free from the wrist, his right
hand being grasped by the right hand of the sub-controller.
Mrs Fraser-Harris, who was sub-controller on many occasions, and
frequently by request of " Olga " through the medium in trance,
declares that at no time during the " drawing power " was she
conscious of any power being taken out of her, nor of any power
being restored when " giving back power " was proceeded with.
" Olga-Rudi
"
's very frequent request for the sitters to sing and to
be " lustig " should be referred to here. Being " lustig " could not
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 273
mean more than talking brightly. This was sometimes decidedly
difl&cult, for after one had been sitting four hours or so in the dark
every topic that was not inappropriately serious had long before been
exhausted.
The criticism that has been made that this singing was for the
purpose of withdrawing our attention from the medium's " tricks
"
would have some weight if any " tricks " had ever been proved to
have been done ; but none have been.
Of less spectacular telekinetic phenomena I observed the follow-
ing : movements of the curtains (seen and also heard by the bells
ringing) ; movements of the table (only heard) ; movements of the
zither (only heard) ; one movement of the paper-basket, when it
seemed to be impelled forward and strike Lord Charles Hope's right
knee and afterwards roll on the floor between his and IMrs Fraser-
Harris's feet.
Our most remarkable experience should be related here. It was
at the close of the sitting of 25 November 1932, the sixteenth of the
series, when I was controller and my wife sub-controller. " Olga-
Rudi " had said the force was strong, and the medium was exerting
himself to a maximum when we noticed that he had changed his
drawing power from the vigorous stroking to the light plucking
movement already described.
All of a sudden and without any warning, the right-hand curtain,
with its bells ringing, was impelled forcibly outwards. Hardly had
we reaUsed what had taken place, for the curtain seemed to remain
blown out, than there was a loud noise followed by the appearance
of some white light low down to the left of the medium as we faced
him.
In another instant the medium, as though impelled by a force
acting between his shoulder blades, fell off his chair sideways towards
his own right and lay panting on the floor between the feet of the
sitters and the muslin frame. My wife at once felt for his wrist, and
ascertained that the heart was satisfactory. With Mr Gregory's
assistance, I immediately covered his head with the black cloth
kept in readiness to protect the medium's eyes from light in the
event of just such an accident. During the time the medium lay
on the floor, he was not breathing at the rapid rate characteristic of
his trance state, but neither could he be called normal. By degrees
we raised Rudi on to his chair, where the hyperpnoea was resumed
until in due time he came out of trance, but we noted that this pro-
cess occupied a very much longer time than usual and was performed
in about twice as many stages. On recovering consciousness, Rudi
declared himself quite unaware of what had happened and would
not admit that he was any the worse for the accident. I visited him
next morning and confirmed this. When the lights were switched
274 Lord Charles Hope [part
on, it was found that the table had been turned upside down
through 180°. In falling over, it had detached the filter over the
source of the rays and so exposed some white light.
4. By Professor A. F. C. Pollard, A.E.C.S., F.Inst.P., A.M.I.E.B.
By the kind invitation of Lord Charles Hope I was able to attend
eight out of the twenty-seven sittings with Eudi, and at five of these
I controlled him.
On all those occasions the infra-red apparatus was in operation,
and at several sittings apparatus was set up to secure infra-red
shadow photographs of any absorbing matter which might appear in
the beam affecting the photo-electric cell.
On nearly every occasion many movements of the galvanometer
coil were recorded, but no evidence of light absorbing matter was
afforded by the photographs which were taken by an operator
immediately after many of these movements.
From the curves of photo-electric cell and photographic plate
sensitivity, described elsewhere by Mr Herbert, it is apparent that
an interposed " substance " affecting the galvanometer circuit
would not necessarily cast a shadow on the photographic plate. It
is important to remember this, as otherwise the results obtained are
incompatible.
These movements of the galvanometer coil, which confirm Dr
Osty's discovery, are very remarkable and of greater scientific
value than the telekinetic phenomena, which in the present series
of sittings have not been instrumentally recorded.
In addition, as elsewhere described, the bell in series with a
selenium cell rang on two or three occasions, indicating an absorp-
tion of at least 50% of the infra-red radiation.
Whatever it is that affects the galvanometer or bell circuits appears
to emanate from Rudi, since the ray absorption sometimes syn-
chronised with his breathing and sometimes took place immediately
after he said it would. But this was by no means always the case.
It would require a somewhat tedious and lengthy statistical study
with more detailed observations to demonstrate a correlation between
these events. On one occasion while I was controlling, namely, during
the first session of the fourth sitting on 14 October 1932, it is inter-
esting to note that there was a considerable movement of the gal-
vanometer coil after the medium's head had fallen forward on my
arm during cessation of trance.
The smallest movements of the coil need not be confused with
movements caused by room tremors, since the tracings caused by
interference due to the medium are unilateral and can be picked out
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 275
from such tremors or irregularities imposed on the zero line of the
records by fluctuations of the voltage on the mains. Violent body
movements by Rudi or by those near the infra-red ray apparatus
could not be made to affect the galvanometer. No such questions
arise, of course, with the large unilateral movements of the coil. But
even if the smallest movements are rejected, the many records of
large movements definitely indicate a considerable variation of the
current in the galvanometer circuit, which cannot be due to any dis-
turbance other than the absorption of the infra-red radiation. In
view of the distance of the medium from the apparatus and the fact
that he was always under vigilant control, it would appear that this
absorption is due to some agency, at present imknown, emanating
from Rudi himself.
A number of telekinetic phenomena described in other parts of
this report were exhibited during these sittings, and all I can assert
about them is that those which happened during the sittings I con-
trolled Rudi were certainly not due to him in the ordinary sense, as
I was fully alive to the position of his body and to every movement
he made with his hands or feet throughout the sessions.
It might be mentioned as a somewhat noteworthy psychological
phenomenon that diiring the first session of the eighth sitting on
28 October 1932, while I was in control, the photo-electric cell
flashed, and the light fell on the medium's face, when he instantly
coUapsed and fell forward on to me. This flash of light apparently
weakened his trance state, for he did not completely recover his
usual vigour for the rest of that session. His trance state and rapid
breathing, apart from anything else, are remarkable conditions,
which cannot be said to be understood.
5. By C. C. L. Gregory, M.A., D.I.C., F.R.A.S.,
Wilson Observer in the University of London.
At the request of Lord Charles Hope, by whose kindness I was
invited to attend the experiments with Rudi, I write this account of
my impressions.
Owing to my usually being otherwise engaged on Tuesday even-
ings, I was present only at fourteen of the twenty-seven sittings.
EarUer in the year (1932), also through the kindness of Lord Charles
Hope, I attended a number of sittings with Rudi under the direction
of Mr Harry Price. With regard to these later sittings, I was im-
pressed by the scientific spirit in which the investigation was carried
out, involving much time spent and hard work on the part of the
investigators. To give one instance only, copies of each report of
what occurred were sent on the day following each sitting to each of
the investigators. These reports were written during the sittings,
276 Lord Charles Hope [part
mostly by Captain C. Baillie, and I hope they will be published
in full.
The following table is based on the reports, and is intended to give,
at a glance, a rough idea of the distribution of the phenomena ob-
served. Columns I and II give the serial numbers of the sittings ;
IV and V give the names of the controller (or controllers where a
change was made during a sitting) ; III gives the place and X the
number of times " cold air " was reported. This phenomenon is to
me, perhaps, the most interesting, because I have never experienced
precisely the same sensation when there has not been an alleged
medium present. The sensation is somewhat similar to that which
occurs when the hand is placed near to a block of ice or to the open
mouth of a iiask containing liquid air. The sensation appears to
arise at the surface of the skin, but this may be purely subjective.
It will be seen, however, from the table, that there is some correla-
tion between the number of times " cold air " is reported and the
total number of phenomena observed (given in columnXII). Column
VI shows the number of times the galvanometer indicated (appar-
ently) a partial occultation of the infra-red rays.
Mr C. V. C. Herbert did most of the work in connection with the
infra-red observations, and his report should be consulted for this
part of the work. Mr Herbert has worked with me for some years
at the University of London Observatory, and I have the greatest
confidence both in his ability for scientific research and in his relia-
bihty as an observer.
Coluran XI gives the number of times observers reported they were
touched by something. I had no such experience during the autumn
of 1932 sittings, but I had one during those of the spring of 1932.
It felt much as if the palm of a hand were placed on the top of my
head for about 5 seconds, during which time I moved my head a
little and had the impression of being in contact with an object
possessing some inertia ; the red light, at the time, was suificient to
enable me to see the people in my vicinity.
The total number of occasions on which objects were reported to
have been moved (shown in VII) amounts to 84. The actual dis-
placement of a number of objects during the sittings is imdoubted,
but the cause is entirely unexplained. I do not think the objects
could have been moved by any known mechanical or human means.
Objects were moved while Rudi was being controlled by Fraser-
Harris, Hope, Brown and Pollard, the average numbers on each
occasion being 5-3, 3-0, 24 and 1-3 respectively, half-weight being
given in the case of two different controllers at one sitting. It would
be interesting, on a future occasion, to try to obtain the movement of
an object entirely coated with soot, in order to see if any material
contact was made with the surface of the object.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 2,11
The next column (VIII) refers to sounds heard—the ringing of the
small bells attached to the curtains, sound of objects struck or moved,
and the unexplained tapping or scratching noises.
Although on only four occasions was anything unaccountable
reported to have been seen, I have put these in a separate column
(IX). Osty reports having seen, when Rudi was in " trance," a sort
of cloud near the ground, which moved from the bottom of the
curtains towards a table. Personally I have never seen anything
unusual (except the movement of objects without apparent contact
with a propelling agent) with the possible exception of an unusual
appearance on the ground-glass screen of the camera in 4. Sufficient
red light passed through the infra-red filter to be visible in the camera,
which was a " reflex." I had been for some time observing the red
disc visible in this way when I noticed it was covered by a number of
darkish filaments in fairly rapid movement. This may have been
due to my retina becoming tired, though I have not observed a similar
effect when viewing, for a long period, a luminous disc in a telescope.
It will be seen that the sittings (marked by a * ) at which I was
present, though only half the total number, included two-thirds of
the total phenomena recorded. This may possibly be explained as
follows : Rudi, while in " trance," requires his audience to be
"lustig"—in other words, to keep up an incessant flow of light chatter.
I think I contributed considerably in this direction, particularly
during no. 13, when I was third from Rudi in the circle.
It might be interesting on some future occasion to try some experi-
ments with some form of radiometer in order to see if this sensation
of very local cold arises from an upsetting of the balance of infra-red
radiation in the room. In fact it seems possible that the photo-cell,
used in the infra-red experiments, might have been acting in this
way—one might get " absorption " of the infra-red rays without the
special source of infra-red being used.
I will now give an account of the " incident " which occurred
during the eighteenth sitting exactly as I wrote it two days after-
wards, viz. on 27 November 1932. It was sent to Lord Charles Hope
the following day.
Report of an incident at the sitting on 25 November 1933.
" Rudi-Olga," while controlled by Dr Fraser-Harris, was moving
various objects, including the curtains of the cabinet. I then heard
a loud bump, which sounded as if the table in front of the cabinet
had been overturned. At the same instant the room was illuminated
by the lamp which was the source of the infra-red beam. (It was
afterwards discovered that the table had in fact been turned upside
down, and in so doing had jerked a thread which was attached to the
support block of the infra-red projector, causing the filter to fall ofl'.)
XIII Remarks.
"
White
light
hurts
force
not
medium."
Medium
in
muslin
cage.
Medium
in
cage.
Medium
in
cage
(roof
ofE).
XII Total.
<M O CO CO
1
—
1
CO
XI Obser-
vers
touch- ed. O O o o O i-i o o o o o o o
X
•
Cold
air
"
report-ed. <M O ^ o o o o o o CO o o
IX
S
0
m
e
-
tiling
para-normal
seen.
o o o o O (M ^ o o o o o o
VIII Sounds
(bells
etc.) heard. (N O o o o o o o r—i t-H
VII Re-
ports
of
ob- jects
moved. O o o CD CO O .-1 o o
VI Partial
Occult- ations of Infra-
red Rays.
CD O o o CO CO
F-H r—
(
00 <N
CO
00 lO 00
V Sub-Controller.
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Dr
W.
Brown
Mrs
J.
Huxley
Miss
Reutiner
C C
<v a>
m m
is
Miss
Reutiner
Mrs
de
Laszio
Mrs
de
Laszio
Mrs
de
Laszio
Miss
Reutiner
fill's
de
Laszio
filrs
de
Laszio
IV Controller.
Lord
C.
Hope
Prof.
Fraser-
Harris
Dr
W.
Brown
j'Dr
W.
Brown
]
Prof.
Fraser-
l
Harris
rProf.
Pollard
Prof.
Fraser-
1
Harris
(
Dr
W.
Brown
\
Prof.
Fraser-
V
Harris
Prof.
PoUard
/Dr
W.
Brown
\
Lord
C.
Hope
CO .
in
CD -D
so c
O O)
CO
* *
1—( lO
OS
o
Medium
in
modi-
fied
cage.
Medium
in
modi-
fied
cage.
o
1
—
1
CO CO
1
—
1
o
00
o O
o o o o o o o o o CO o O
lO o o o o <N O o o o
o o o o o o o o o r—
i
o o
o o o o o o -H O 1—
1
CO
o o
o o o o o o o o o CO
o o
CO C5
00
CO
1
—
!
not used
o o
Mrs
de
Laszlo
Lord
C.
Hope
Miss
Reutiner
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Miss
Reutiner
Lady
Craik
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Mrs
de
Laszlo
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Miss
Reutiner
Lady
D.
Hope
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Mrs
Fraser-
H
arris
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
fProf.
Pollard
1
Mrs
Fraser-
1-
Harris
1
Lord
C.
Hope
C.
C.
L.
(
Gregory
Prof.
Fraser-
Harris
f
Lord
C.
Hope
[Capt.
Baillie
1
Lord
C.
Hope
Prof.
Fraser-
t
Harris
Prof.
Fraser-
H
arris
rProf.
Fraser-
,
Harris
[Capt.
Baillie
Lord
C.
Hope
65
Cadogan
Gardens
16
Queens
-
berry
PI.
65
Cadogan
Gardens
*
00
*
05 o
*
1
—
(
1
—
1
(M
1—
1
*
CO
1—
1
*
1
—
1
00 1—1 i-HTt< OOi—IIO 00
<M CO r-< 1-1 I—
I
'r.
M X'
t«l
£
A
Table
upset.
Medium
falls
from
chair.
Muslin
cage
over
rays
:
occultations
photographed
gal-
vanometrically.
XII Total.
+
00
F-H
4-
co
1
—
I
o CO
1—
I
I-H
I-H
XI Obser-
vers
touch- ed. eq o o o o o o o
X
•
Cold
air
"
report-ed. o O o CO o o o
IX Some- thing
para-normal
seen.
o o o o o o o o o o o
VIII Sounds
(bells,
etc.) heard.
lO (M O o o CO o o o
VII
Re-
ports
of
ob- jects
moved. o o o O CO o * O 00 O
VI Partial
Occult-
of Infra-
red Rays.
not used
a a
o o Ol O CO O
V Sub-oontroUer.
Miss
Reutiner
Miss
Reutiner
Miss
Reutiner
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Mrs
Fraser-
H
arris
Miss
Reutiner
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Mrs
De
Gernon
j
Miss
Reutiner
-
Mrs
Fraser-
1,
Harris
IV Controller.
Lord
C.
Hope
r
Lord
C.
Hope
-
Prof.
Fraser-
[
Harris
j-Capt.
Baillie
I
Prof.
Fraser-
v
Harris
Lord
C.
Hope
Prof.
Fraser-
Harris
Lord
C.
Hope
Lord
C.
Hope
Ill Place.
03 P-l
03 .
©E!
...
03
II
No.
of
Sit-
ting.
<D t> 00 OS O ^ (N
I-H i—1 I-H 1—* (M (M
Date, 1932.
"M CO lO Ol (M
(N <M C<l <M
. . . . o
1—
1
1
—
1
CO
o
o o o o CO
lO
1—
<
o 1—
1
CO o m
o o o o o
a 1
—
1
00 (N <M CO
00
(M o (M o CO
O not used
1
—
1
CO
275
+
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
Miss
Reutiner
Mrs
Fraser-
Harris
(
Miss
Reutiner
Mrs
Fraser-
l
Harris
Lord
C.
Hope
Prof.
Fraser-
Harris
Prof.
Pollard
Prof.
Fraser-
Harris
Prof.
Pollard
an
CO XI
CO
* *
CO
O
ft
O
282 Lord Charles Hope [part
After an interval, whicli I fmd difiicult to estimate—but I should
say it was of the order of one second—I heard another crash almost
immediately in front of me. I at once rose from my seat, and
found Rudi quite limply on his side on the floor, and breathing very
gently, slowly and regularly. After covering him with some dark
material which I was given, I assisted in lifting him back to his chair.
During the whole of this period he made no movement of any kind,
and appeared to be completely unconscious.
In conclusion, I should like to sum up my impressions as a whole,
but I find this to be impossible. It must be understood that I took
no part in arranging definite experiments to test definite hypotheses,
nor, indeed, did anyone else appear to do so, the exception being
Lord Rayleigh's experiments in the infra-red, which gave a nil
result.
I think it may safely be stated that many of Osty's observa-
tions have been repeated, in some cases under improved con-
ditions as regards the preclusion of trickery, and of this, I may
say, there was never the smallest sign, so far as I could observe, on
the part of anyone ; nor did Rudi's ordinary self seem at all com-
patible with the suggestion of deception of any kind. On the other
hand, the " Olga " personaHty seemed much Like that of a conceited
child playing a game of " make-behef." It may well be that Rudi
suddenly becomes deeply unconscious (as he says he does) at the
commencement of his trance, and then, when he starts his very rapid
breathing, a type of cerebral activity begins of which we ourselves
have no experience. In this state, he may feel fully convinced he is
another person, " Olga," and then, just as we in ordinary conscious-
ness have to rationalise, so he has to act a part. Apparently the
more his audience enter into his rather crude acting, the more self-
assured he feels, and the better the phenomena, though how he
actually does them remains a complete mystery.
6. By Geeald Heard.
I attended the sitting held on Tuesday, 18 October 1932, at 8 p.m.,
at 65 Cadogan Gardens.
Dr William Brown controlled the medium. I spoke to him after
the sitting and also investigated before the sitting began the way in
which he held the medium. Lord Charles Hope showed me the manner
in which the cabinet in which the medium was placed was shut
off both from the sitters and also from the area in which the infra-
red ray was cast over the objects to be moved. I satisfied myself
A
131] Report of a Series of Sittings ivith Rudi Schneider 283
that this and the way Dr Brown held hun woidd prevent the medium
making physical contact with the area. During the sitting, which
lasted till midnight, I occupied at the various sessions a seat almost
opposite the photo-electric cell. Before the sitting, Lord Charles
Hope had shown me the screen which, when lowered, prevented the
sitters having access to the area covered by the infra-red ray. I
satisfied myself that this screen would prevent sitters from being able
to interfere with the infra-red ray. As the records of the sittings will
show, some readings on the moving drum were recorded at this sitting.
The other sitting at which I was present was on 8 November. At
this sitting, during one of the sessions, I sat in the observation cell
where the galvanometer is placed and saw some slight deviations
recorded on the drum through fluctuations in the galvanometer
beam.
7. By S. Wheeler Eobinson, M.A., Ph.D.
At the suggestion of Sir William Bragg, I was invited to attend the
sittings with the medium Rudi Schneider, organised by Lord Charles
Hope. With one exception, these sittings were held at 16 Queens-
berry Place. Having read Dr Osty's report, I was especially inter-
ested in the infra-red absorption phenomena which are there de-
scribed, and I spent most of my time during the sittings inside the
galvanometer room in company with Mr C. V. C. Herbert, watching
the indications of the recording galvanometer. I was unfortunate
in that on all the occasions when I was present no infra-red absorp-
tion was recorded ; but I was given every opportunity of examining
and testing the apparatus. As a physicist I am xmable to suggest any
normal explanation of the absorptions which did, in fact, take place
at other sittings, and of which records were shown me, if, as I have
every reason to believe, the apparatus was on these occasions
equally well protected against mechanical vibration and outside
interference.
I do not feel competent to give an opinion about the phenomena
of telekiaesis which were described to me, since this is my first
attempted experience of supranormal events ; nor about the remark-
able physiological behaviour of the medium, which seems to be an
objective phenomenon well worth more detailed investigation.
8. By William Brown, M.A., M.D.(Oxon.), D.Sc.(Lond.), F.R.C.P.,
Wilde Reader in Mental Philosophy in the University of Oxford.
Through the kindness of Lord Charles Hope I was able to take
part in seven of the sittings held with Rudi Schneider between
October and December 1932, acting as controller of the medium in
284 Lord Charles Ho'pe [part
three of them. The conditions of the investigation were arranged
with great scientific care, although full consideration was shown for
the special wishes and instructions of the medium and of his so-
called spirit Control Olga.
The trance into which Rudi passes is unusual, indeed imique, in
nature and is characterised by very rapid breathing, which is inter-
rupted at intervals and ceases to be apparent when " Olga " speaks.
It may be a genuine trance or it may be a simulation. I had no
reliable scientific means of deciding between these alternative possi-
bilities, although such very rapid breathing could probably not be
duplicated by anyone in a normal state—at least for any length of
time.
I found that Rudi's systolic blood-pressure fell temporarily by
10 mm. Hg. (from 140 to 130 mm.) between the moment just pre-
ceding trance and the moment of emerging from trance.
Slight movements of the right cabinet curtain, i.e. the one near the
medium, and of objects a short distance away occurred at rare
intervals during the sittings, and deflections of the galvanometer
needle were reported, indicating momentary partial absorption of
the invisible beam of the infra-red ray apparatus employed. But my
general impression was that the phenomena became less pronounced
when conditions were made more stringent, as. e.g., by enclosing the
medium and the ray apparatus in muslin-walled compartments.
As far as my own experiences of the sittings went, the results were
inconclusive, and neither proved nor disproved the possession by
Rudi Schneider of supernormal (or paranormal) powers of telekinesis.
Nevertheless the positive results actually obtained indicated the
desirability of still further research—research which might produce
results of definite scientific importance.
III. By Lord Charles Hope.
Since the sittings here reported on there has been published Mr
Harry Price's An Account of some further Experiments with Rudi
Schneider, being a report on twenty-seven sittings held in the
National Laboratory of Psychical Research from February to
May 1932. Readers of the present report will probably be glad to
have some comments on Mr Price's book.
The preface begins, " The Coimcil of the National Laboratory of
Psychical Research has pleasure in submitting to its Members . .
."
It would appear, however, from a joint manifesto signed by most of
the active members of Mr Price's Coimcil, which was published in
Light on 7 April 1933, and from a letter written the previous week by
H. G. Bois, the acting President, that these members were ignorant
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 285
of the charge of fraud to be made against Rudi, aud therefore
the responsibihty for the whole report must rest solely upon
Mr Price.
It must be clear to anyone reading the report that conflicting
opinions are in evidence. On the one hand all the notes made during
the sittings, both those where Mr Price was present and those from
which he was absent, tend, without exception, to confirm the genu-
ineness of the phenomena witnessed, such notes having all, I think,
been dictated by Mr Price, whenever he was present, while the sitting
was in progress. On the other hand all the comments, deductions
and conclusions by which Mr Price supplements the actual notes are
written in such a way as to throw the maximum of doubt on all the
phenomena witnessed during this series of sittings. Readers of the
report will ask themselves the reason for the divergence between the
impressiveness of the phenomena as recorded in the notes, and the
sweeping charge of fraud brought forward by Mr Price against the
medium.
It is evidently Mr Price's own wish that attention should be con-
centrated on the particular section of the report in which Rudi is
accused of fraud, if one may judge from the statements made by
him in the popular press just before the pubhcation of the report. I
will therefore go straight to that section.
f At the sitting of 28 April 1932 Rudi was controlled by Mr Price,
Mrs De Gernon acting as second controller and, though this is not
stated, as interpreter, Mr Price knowing little or no German.
The method of controlling Rudi during these sittings was the usual
one : the medium and the controller sit facing each other, the con-
troller holding the medium's hands with his own hands and clasping
the medium's knees between his own Imees. The second controller,
whose chief function is to connect the medium with the chain of
sitters, and who, like all the other sitters, also faces in the direction
opposed to that of the medium, holds the latter's right wrist in his
own hand. The medium's right hand is thus held by both controllers,
his left one by the chief controller alone.
Frequently, sometimes for many consecutive minutes, the medium
puts up his left hand, which continues to be held by the controller,
and strokes the arm or leg of one of the controllers to " gather the
force." From time to time, usually when a phenomenon is expected,
" Olga " (the medium's trance personality) asks the sitters to hold
tight. This request, though addressed to the sitters rather than the
controller, naturally makes all present " hand-conscious," the con-
troller as well as the sitters. The same reaction, in the case of care-
ful sitters, follows the announcement or actual occurrence of a
phenomenon.
In these conditions of control there took place during the sitting
286 Lord Charles Hope [part
of 28 April 1932, the following series of events, which I abridge from
p. 147 of Mr Price's report.
" 10.41. Rudi squeezing controllers' hand [apparently a misprint
for '
controller's hands '] very hard. . . .
10.44. [Various phenomena occurred.]
10.46. Olga tells us to hold tight—right curtain moving. . . .
10.49. [Various phenomena occurred.]
10.50. The flashhght has suddenly gone off—but a second flash
has gone off immediately after—evidently the second
bulb hung fire. . . .
10.59. Olga says that the power is getting stronger. . . .
10.0. Olga tells us to hold tight.
11.1. Again we are told to hold tight." ;
There were, to quote Mr Price (p. 145), " three cameras in position.
. . . All these cameras are exposed simultaneously if handkerchief
is moved by normal or supernormal means "—-that is, the cameras
stood with lenses uncovered ready to record whatever the flashlights
disclosed as soon as any movement of the handkerchief set off the
flashlights. Mr Price reproduces certain photographs (Plates
XVIII-XXI) stated by him to have been taken by the flashlight at
10.59. From these it appears that Rudi's left hand, which ought to
have been held by Mr Price, was, during one of the two flashes, un-
controlled and behind the medium.
These photographs were, to continue Mr Price's narrative (p. 152),
developed by him the following morning (29 April 1932) in Rudi's
presence. " When I removed them from the fixing bath I saw
immediately what had happened. When I confronted Rudi with the
evidence, he did not know what to say. ... I formally charged him
with having freed his arm and suggested his having moved the hand-
kerchief from the counterpoise himself. He made no reply. This
conversation took place in the presence of Miss Beenham, the
secretary."
Rudi denies that any charge was made, and in the conflict of
evidence between Mr Price and him, Rudi's denial is supported by
subseqiient letters from Mr Price to him, which I have seen, the tone
of these being hardly reconcilable with Mr Price's statement.
To the comments Mr Price makes and the conclusions he draws
from these photographs I will return later. I now continue the
narrative so as to gratify the reader's natural cmiosity as to whether
Mr Price's colleagues in this investigation formed the same opinion
as he did from these photographs, when he communicated his
discovery to them. The answer is that they formed no opinion.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 287
because 3Ir Price made no commimication about the photograplis
to them, then or for many months later. Not even ]\Irs De Gernon,
the sub-controller, was informed. Yet if the other sitters on 28
April had been shown these photographs soon after they were
developed, and questioned as to what exactly they had observed at
or about the time of the two flashes, some material fact helping to
elucidate the episode might have been brought to light.
Two further sittings of the same series were held. It was obviously
important that the persons present at those sittings should be
specially warned to be on their guard in case a si milar incident
recurred ; but no hint of any suspicious occurrence at an earlier
sitting was given them, nor was any attempt made to take further
photographs. Not even Captain Cochrane-Baillie, who had been
present on 28 April and was the controller at the sitting of 3 May,
was taken into Ish Price's confidence.
No hint was given to those who had financed the series of sittings
then closing of any suspicious incident ha\'lng recently occurred, and
later in the summer, when ^Ir Price again sought fixiancial support
from some of us for a proposed fm'ther series of sittings to be held
in the autumn of 1932, he omitted to mention the photographs in
question. Later those of us who subscribed towards the cost of the
pubhcation of his report were not informed that in it any accusation
of fraud was to be made against Rudi.
Most of the members of ]\Ir Price's Council learnt for the first
time of the charges to be brought in the report from a sensational
newspaper article appearing ten months after the sitting.
Not that ilr Price was silent as to the result of these sittings. In
several newspaper articles written by h im between the close of these
sittings and the publication of his report he wrote in eulogistic
terms of Rudi and his phenomena. In the Empire News for 8 May
1932 he says, " For three years he has been under laboratory tests
in England and France and has emerged unscathed from his very
strenuous ordeals," and again in Light of 20 May 1932 he writes,
" This is the third time he [Rudi] has been in England, and on each
occasion he has added, to his laurels. For three years Rudi has
been subjected to the most stringent laboratory tests in England and
France and has passed every one with fl}Tng colours." Other state-
ments by ]Mr Price to the same effect, some written more recently,
might be quoted.
In the autumn of 1932 Rudi returned to London for the sittings
reported in the earlier part of this paper, sittings held quite inde-
pendently of Mr Price. Early in 1933 I began putting together the
records of those sittings, and towards the end of February Rudi went
to Paris for a joint investigation by the Institut Metapsychique
and the S.P.R. : in this also Mr Price had, of course, no part. Then
E
288 Lord Charles Hope [part
and not till then did Mr Price spring his mine. The Sunday Dispatch
of 5 March 1933 was his chosen vehicle for informing his colleagues
and financial supporters of 1932, and simultaneously the uninformed
public, that ten months earlier he had caught Rudi faking
phenomena.
Mr Price cannot complain if in the circumstances stated above this
belated " exposure " is received with reserve. The lapse of time
prevents the recollections of the other sitters on 28 April 1932 being
usefully invoked to confirm or refute Mr Price's version of what
happened at it. This would be of little importance if Mr Price's
case were of the kind which carried in itself instant conviction. It all
depends on the photographic control installed by Mr Price, and
unfortimately this proved to be defective at the very same moment
that Mr Price's manual control was defective. The third camera,
too, failed to record the incident. Mr Price informs us (p. 150) that the
" plate in the overhead stereoscopic camera was fogged by the light
of the flash striking the lenses."
This is unfortunate, as it would perhaps have enabled us to judge
more accurately the position of the medium's free arm at the moment
of the flash ; in the existing photographs this is by no means clear.
Instead, therefore, of a clear and unambiguous photographic record,
we have, as Mr Price says (p. 150), " two photographs, the one super-
imposed on the other." This is certainly true, but he goes on to make
an assertion miwarranted by the photographs themselves, or any
other evidence. " The first flash caught Rudi's left arm as it was
held straight out behind him : the second flash ignited when the
mediimi had got into position again."
It is essential to Mr Price's case that he should establish that things
happened in that order. If it was the second flash which showed
Rudi's arm free, then the suggestion that he moved the handker-
chief with his free hand and arm, and in so doing set off the first
flash, falls to the ground. The photographic experts whom I have
consulted seem to be agreed that, where a plate has been subjected
to double exposure, it is impossible to tell with certainty from the
resulting negative which of the two images was taken first. When
Rudi is in a trance, he is, it seems, very sensitive to white fight and is
apt to give a sudden convulsive movement when any such light
shines upon him. In this case such a movement nfi^ght easily have
resulted in his tugging away his wrist from the controller's grasp.
Unfortunately, on that occasion, Mr Price, who, to quote his own
words (p. 151), " really was not in a fit state to control," was acting
as controller and his recollections, in the circumstances, can be of no
value.
The internal evidence of the photographs being ambiguous, we
must next consider what support Mr Price's view of the incident
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 289
receives from the notes of tlie sitting, the material parts of which I
have ahready quoted. It appears from these that at 10.41 Mr Price,
as controller, was definitely holding the medium's hands, and that
at 10.44, 10.46 and 10.49 he could hardly have helped knowing
whether or not he was holding the medium, since at those times there
were either phenomena or an injunction to hold tight. Neverthe-
less we are told that one minute later, at 10.50, the medium had got
his hand out of Mr Price's control without Mr Price's knowledge, and
had faked at least one phenomenon. By 10.59, or 11.0 at the latest,
Mr Price must again have become " hand-conscious."
Altogether phenomena were reported as occurring on at least
twenty occasions that evening, and Mr Price suggests they may aU
have been faked as, he alleges, that occurring at 10.50 was faked.
What was Mr Price doing with his right hand while all this was
happening ? It must be remembered that the usual method of
evading hand-control was not possible here, for there was nobody on
Mr Price's right, and hence nobody whose hand could be mistaken
for Rudi's. Are we to believe that twenty times during that evening
alone Rudi freed his left hand from Mr Price's right hand without
Mr Price knowing it, and that twenty times he succeeded in getting
it back into Mr Price's hand, also without Mr Price's knowing it ?
Or that Mr Price for minutes together, even hours, was holding
nothing in his right hand and making no effort to find Rudi's left
wrist ? I find either of these suppositions incredible in a man of
anything like Mr Price's experience.
Again, are the distances such as to make Mr Price's accusation
plausible ? The chair of the medium (A) and the position of the
table (B) on which was the handkerchief were as shown on this
sketch
:
The distance between the table and the nearest point of the
medium's chair is given on p. 192 of the report as 2 ft. 5| ins. The
position of the medium's chair was in no way fixed, but from a sub-
sequent examination of the room I am convinced that usually the
distance was at least 2 ft. 10 ins.
In any case, however, two inches must be added for the distance
the handkerchief was from the edge of the table. Rudi's legs and
knees were at the time of the movement of the handkerchief in their
normal position between the controller's legs : this is clear from the
photographs. Only the upper part of his body, therefore, was capable
B
[Not to scale]
A
290 Lord Charles Hope [part
of any appreciable movement. Rudi is rather below the average
height. Could he, while his legs were immobilised, twist sufficiently
round to enable his left hand to move an object at least 2 ft. 7^ ins.
from the right side of his chair ? And all this is supposed to have
been done without exciting the suspicions of either the principal or
second controller !
It must be remembered, too, that some of the phenomena recorded
as happening, both at the sitting of 28 April and at other sittings,
must have occurred considerably further from the medium's chair
than the handkerchief phenomenon could have been.
The suggestion made (p. 153) that at the sitting of 28 April the
medium was not " in an abnormal state " (meaning, presumedly, a
state of trance) need not be taken seriously, since Mr Price was
evidently in an unusual state himself, being (p. 151) " thoroughly ill
that evening and in agony with an abscess," and his powers of per-
ception must have been at a low ebb. Moreover nothing unusual as
regards the medi\un's state was recorded in the notes.
When (p. 155) Mr Price implies that Rudi could have faked the
results obtained at the Institut Metapsychique in Paris, by freeing
an arm, he can hardly expect to be taken seriously. The foolishness
of such a suggestion will be obvious to anybody who reads Dr
Osty's report Les Pouvoirs inconnus de VEsprit sur la Matiere, or
even Mr Besterman's summary of it in Proceedings S.P.R., xl. 433 ff.
To mention only one objection out of many, Mr Price does not even
allude to the clamped gauze screen, 5 ft. 6 ins. in height, which
separated the medium from the infra-red apparatus at many success-
ful sittings.
My own experience of Rudi's phenomena is entirely in favour of
their genuineness, but I realise that anyone whose experience may
be of a contrary kind is entitled to say so, provided he states his case
fairly and bases it on evidence that will bear scrutiny. Before,
however, Mr Price brought his accusation, no serious or detailed
charge of fraud had been brought against Rudi personally. He has
never been one of these mediums who are only willing to sit for par-
ticular patrons of their own selection, and his readiness to accept
any condition and submit to any experiment ought to make his
sitters particularly careful as to the evidence on which they base a
charge of fraud and to the manner in which they present their case.
I submit that neither the evidence Mr Price adduces nor his method
of presentation is such as to make his charges count for anything
against a medium with Rudi's record.
What does emerge damaged from Mr Price's report is his own repu-
tation as controller, conductor of investigations and critic. Mr
Price asks us to consider how much of Rudi's phenomena, produced
in different series of sittings, can, after this " exposure," still be
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with JRiidi Schneider 291
considered genuine. I am quite prepared to face that problem, but
what exercises me, and perhaps other readers of the report, still more,
is what weight is now to be attached to any report, whether positive
or negative in its conclusions, or any phenomena, produced under
Mr Price's direction or control or recorded by him ?
Addendum by Theodore Besterman.
As I may not have any other opportunity of expressing my views
in public, I desire here to say in the clearest terms that I cordially
agree with the criticisms of Mr Price's " exposure " of Rudi Schneider
made above by Lord Charles Hope, in the Revue Metwpsychique
(March-April 1933, pp. 110 ff.) by Dr Osty, and in Bulletin XX of the
Boston S.P.E,. (pp. 86 ff). by Dr Prince. Quite apart from other
and important considerations, Mr Price's report appears to me to
be in itself quite worthless as an exposure. It can have no effect
on Rudi Schneider's standing.
IV. Synopsis of Sittings.
4 October—16 December 1932.
Notetaher.—Unless otherwise stated, Captain the Hon. Victor
Cochrane-Baillie acted as notetaker at every sitting.
Apparatus :
(1) Infra-red box with bell. (See C. V. C. Herbert's report, p. 264.)
(2) Infra-red photographic apparatus designed by Lord Rayleigh.
(See C. V. C. Herbert's report, p. 260.) All the tables on
which this apparatus was placed were clamped to the floor.
(3) Small photographic apparatus used at Queensberry Place.
(See C. V. C. Herbert's report, p. 265.)
(4) Projector transmitting beam on to a caesium-on-silver cell
connected to a galvanometer. (See C. V. C. Herbert's
report, p. 263.)
(5) A drum camera used for obtaining records of deflections.
(See C. V. C. Herbert's report, p. 262.)
(6) Electrically heated flat-iron and Moll thermopile. Used on
one occasion only—6th sitting. (See C. V. C. Herbert's
report, p. 265.)
At some of the sittings a muslin-covered cage with movable back
and sides was used. This cage completely enclosed the medium and
first controller. (See plate 1).
Except at the 1st, 12th and 16th sittings there were strips of wood
nailed to the floor to prevent the medium's chair from moving.
292 Lord Charles Hope [part
At some of the sittings a muslin screen 6 feet high was interposed
between the sitters and the apparatus and cabinet.
Black curtains were drawn across the cabinet at every sitting.
Luminous strips were fastened to these curtains and six small bells
were pinned inside the right one.
At all sittings that infra-red photography was tried an artificial
rose was placed near the lens to act as a pointer. Rudi-Olga was
asked to place the power above it.
A small table, not fastened to floor, was used at most of the sittings.
On this table the objects placed for telekinesis were usually a small
handkerchief, an artificial flower and a hand-bell.
At all sittings a toy balloon was placed inside the cabinet. It was
placed in a bowl of water to prevent it being blown about by the
movement of the curtains.
At almost every sitting water was sprinkled on the floor inside
the cabinet and outside in front of the curtains. Rudi-Olga had
asked that this should be done at previous sittings on account of the
heat and it was thought advisable to continue the practice.
At most of the sittings a toy harp and waste-paper basket were
used, their positions on the floor being marked with chalk or
drawing-pins.
The small table used at all these sittings was 15" square, 20" high
and weighed 6J lbs.
The waste-paper basket (actually a small close-meshed clothes
basket) was 14" high and had a circumference of 34".
The toy harp was 16" long and 9" high.
To realise the direction in which objects were moved the reader
must imagine he is facing the " cabinet."
Measurements at 65 Cadogan Gardens for sittings with Rudi Schneider,
1. Taken from edge of top of medium's chair, nearest to lamp.
To nearest point of lens table, 24".
To centre of lens, 36".
To upper edge of lens round mount, 39j".
To flower on shelf of lens table over top, 52".
To flower on table round front edge of lens box, 42".
2. From medium's chair to nearest point of curtain, 18".
From centre of curtains (join) :
To flower, 20".
To edge of top of medium's chair, 44".
Width of curtains, each 5 feet.
Height of curtains, 10 feet.
3. Greatest depth of " cabinet," 3 feet.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 293
First Sitting. 3 Periods. 4 October 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Sitters. Front row. In order of seating. Lord Charles Hope
(cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.), Prof. Pollard, Mrs
Julian Huxley, Prof. Fraser-Harris, Mrs W. Brown, Mr Gregory.
Back row. Dr W. Brown, Miss Reutiner (interpreting),
Frl. Mangl.
At the Ammeter. Mr Herbert and Mr Evelyn.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Small red lamp, controlled by a
rheostat, suspended in front of curtains.
(This was the only illumination used during the sittings.)
Infra-red box (1),^ placed on the floor in front of cabinet.
Balloon and waste-paper basket.
1st and 2nd periods negative.
3rd Period.
10.45. Door locked. Key : Mr Herbert. Lights out.
11.10. Rudi-Olga asks for circle to be changed, as follows :
Front row. Prof. Fraser-Harris (cont.), Dr W. Brown
(asst. cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris, Prof. Pollard, Mrs Huxley,
Mrs W. Brown, Lord Charles Hope.
Back row. Mr Gregory, Miss Reutiner, Frl. Mangl.
11.28. Needle movement.
11.30. Rudi-Olga says she is going into the box. Needle moves.
11.42. Movement of top of curtain reported.
11.43. Rudi-Olga says she is going into the box. Needle moves.
11.45. Bells on right-hand curtain ring.
12.7. Rudi-Olga says she has gone into box. Needle moves.
12.10. Rudi-Olga says " Hush." Tapping is heard on the box,
seemingly on the side away from the medium.
12.25. Sound of water pouring on to floor.
12.35. Sitting ends.
Notes. Five movements of needle and two curtain movements
were reported during the 3rd period.
^ The numbers refer to the list of apparatus at the beginning of the synopsis.
294 Lord Charles Hope [part
Second Sitting. 4 Periods. 7 October 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W
.
Notetaker. Dr Fraser-Harris.
Sitters. Front row. Dr W. Brown (cont.), Mrs Huxley (asst.
cont.), Prof. Pollard, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Admiral Strutt, Mrs
Brown, Mr Gregory, Lord Rayleigh.
Seco7}d row. Lord Charles Hope, Miss Reutiner, Frl. Mangl,
Mrs Pollard, Mr Evelyn.
At the Ammeter. Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red photographic apparatus
used (2).
8.10. Lights out. Door locked. Key : Mr Herbert.
12.20. Sitting ended.
Notes. Negative sitting. Eudi-Olga said that it was a new room
and that it will be better next time.
Third Sitting. 3 Periods. 11 October 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W.
Sitters. Dr W. Brown (cont.), Miss Reutiner (asst. cont.), Dr
Fraser-Harris, Mrs W. Brown, Admiral Strutt, Mrs Fraser-
Harris, Mr Evelyn, Lord Charles Hope.
At the Camera. Lord Rayleigh.
At the Ammeter. Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red photographic apparatus ( 2 )
.
Small artificial rose placed on lens table. The right edge of the
right curtain is nailed to the wall in several places to prevent it
waving across the beam.
8.14. Door locked. Key : Mr Evelyn.
8.20. Lights out.
8.57-9.11. Five cm-tain movements and five needle movements
were reported. Three photographs were taken.
9.12. Ten minutes pause.
2nd Period.
9.30. Door locked. Lights out.
9.40. Rudi-Olga says the power is stronger.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 295
9.44-10.34. Fifteen needle movements were reported ranging from
6 mm. to 17 mm. Ten photographs were taken.
9.53. Dr Eraser-Harris takes control at Rudi-Olga's request.
10.41. Nine minutes pause.
3rd Period.
Door locked. Controller, Dr Fraser-Harris ; assistant
controller, unchanged.
11.0. Lights out.
11.43-11.44. Fotir needle movements were reported ranging from
8 mm. to 28 mm.
The curtain bells were heard to ring three times during
this j)eriod.
12.4. Sitting ends.
Note. With one doubtful exception all the photographs were
blank.
Fourth Sitting. 3 Periods. 14 October 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S. W.
Sitters. Prof. Pollard (cont.). Miss Reutiaer (asst. cont.), Mrs de
Laszlo, Dr Fraser-Harris, Mrs Fraser-Harris, The Hon. A. C.
Strutt, Lady Barrett, Lord Charles Hope.
At the Camera. Lord Rayleigh and Mr Herbert.
At the Galvanometer. Mr Gregory.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red photographic apparatus (2).
The path of the ray has been enclosed in cardboard (Essex
board) framed with wood from the projector to the lens box.
From the lens box to the camera the ray has been enclosed by
fine butter muslin stretched on a wooden frame. In this muslin,
on the side nearest the curtains, there is a flap door 24" x 10".
This door was left open during the sitting. Distance from
the medium to rose through the flap door about 48". Rose
on lens table. Harp under lens table. Balloon in cabinet as
usual. Rudi was not told that the ray would be enclosed before
the sitting.
8.14. Door locked. Key : Prof. Harris. Lights out.
8.35. Needle moves 5 mm.
8.36. Needle wobbhng.
296 Lord Charles Hope [part
8.39-9.12. Fourteen needle movements were reported and five
photographs were taken.
9.15. Pause.
9.25. Door locked. Circle reformed.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
At Camera. Mr Gregory and Lord Rayleigh.
9.34-10.15. Fifteen needle movements reported. Ten photos
taken.
3rd Period.
10.50. Door locked. Key : Mr Herbert. Circle reconstructed.
Prof. Fraser-Harris (cont.), Mrs de Laszlo (asst. cont.),
Miss Reutiner, Lord Charles Hope, Mrs Fraser-Harris,
The Hon. C. Strutt, Lady Barrett.
At Camera. Lord Rayleigh and Mr Gregory.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert. •
.
Lights out.
11.14-11.40. Three needle movements reported and two curtain
movements. Bells ring once.
12.13. Sitting ends.
Note. All the photographic plates were blank.
Fifth Sitting. 3 Periods. 18 October 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S. W.
Sitters. Front row. Dr W. Brown (cont.), Mrs de Laszlo (asst.
cont.). Lord Charles Hope, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Mr G. Heard,
Mrs W. Brown, Mr de Laszlo, Admiral Strutt.
Back row. Dr Fraser-Harris.
At Camera. The Hon. C. Strutt.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. A cage made of fine butter muslin
(6' X 5' X 38") completely enclosed the medium and first con-
troller. There is an aperture 15" x 9" to permit the entrance
of the 2nd controller's right arm. In addition to this an ad-
justable muslin screen, stretched on a wooden frame and nailed
to the floor, separated the sitters from the cabinet and appar-
atus. (See plate 1.)
131] Report of a Series of Sittings ivith Bitdi Schneider 297
The cardboard enclosing the infra-red beam not in use at this
sitting. Objects for telekinesis placed on small table. Balloon
in cabinet. Harp under lens table. Waste-paper basket on top
of lens case. Artificial rose as usual.
8.25. Door locked. Key : Admiral Strutt. Lights out.
8.54-8.55. Three needle movements reported and three photos
taken.
2nd Period.
9.29. Door locked. Key : Admiral Strutt. Lights out.
Circle as before. Controllers unchanged. Door of medium's
cage behind the controller left open on account of the
heat. Dr Fraser-Harris joins Mr Herbert.
9.56-10.30. Four needle movements and one slight curtain move-
I
ment reported,
i 10.30. Pause.
'
3rd Period.
Sitters. Controller changed to Dr Eraser-Harris ; assistant con-
troller unchanged. Dr Brown joins circle on left of Admiral
Strutt.
At Galvanometer. Mr de Laszlo and Mr Herbert.
10.47. Door locked. Key : Admiral Strutt. Lights out.
11.37. Slight needle movement.
11.47. Eudi-Olga says " Count ten " ; needle moves slightly on
" ten."
12.1. Sitting ends.
Notes. The photographic plates were blank. An examination of
the room after the sitting showed that the muslin had come away
from the bottom corner of the cage nearest to camera table and three
drawing-pins had been detached from the framework. It was thought
that this was caused by the violent movement of the chair as the
medium was coming out of trance.
Sixth Sitting. 3 Periods. 21 October 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W.
Sitters. Front row. Prof. Pollard (cont.), Miss Keutiner (asst.
cont.), Mr Gregory, Miss Baggally, Lord Charles Hope, Lady
Crosfield, Dr Fraser-Harris, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Mr Herbert.
At Galvanometer. Lord Eayleigh and Admiral Strutt.
298 Lord Charles Hope [part
Apparatus and Arrangements. In place of infra-red photograpliic
apparatus there was used an electrically heated flat-iron and
a Moll thermopile connected with a galvanometer (6). Waste-
paper basket, balloon and objects for telekinesis as usual.
Medium and controller in cage. Opening in cage for assistant
controller's arms enlarged to 20" x 35". An electric fan is on
the floor to the right of the controller's chair.
8.15. Door locked. Key : Admiral Strutt. Lights out.
Negative period.
9.9. Ten minutes pause asked for.
2nd Period.
9.32. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Prof. H. Levy joins
the circle and sits in back row with Dr Fraser-Harris.
Admiral Strutt has left. Controllers unchanged.
Negative period.
10. 3L Rudi-Olga says the electric fan in the medium's cage is
detrimental to the production of phenomena' as it is
playing towards the cabinet.
10.36. Pause.
3rd Period.
10.57. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Lights out. Prof.
Levy has left. Dr Fraser-Harris has gone back to front
row. Mr Herbert is observing ammeter connected to
infra-red box apparatus (1), which has been placed, with
lid off, touching right curtain at the medium's back.
From nearest point of medium's chair to the ray inside
the box, over top of muslin side, is 23".
Electric fan disconnected.
Panels at back of medium's cage have been removed.
11.34. Electric iron disconnected, Rudi-Olga having complained
of the heat.
11.41. Slight needle movements (ammeter connected to infra-red
box).
11.50. Three needle movements.
11.53. Needle movement 1-2 mm. Bell rings in box.
12.3. Needle movement 0-7 mm. to 1-8 mm. Bell rings.
12.11. Needle movement 0-5 mm.
12.11. Needle movements continued synchronous with medium's
breathing.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 299
12.22. Kudi-Olga says " Hush " and soft scratching noises are
heard coming from the direction of the cabinet.
12.46. Sitting ends.
Seventh Sitting. 3 Periods. 25 October 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S. W.
Sitters. Dr W. Brown (cont.), Mrs de Laszlo, Lord Charles Hope,
Mrs Julian Huxley, Mrs Lyttelton, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Mrs
W. Brown.
At the Camera. The Hon. C. Strutt.
At the Galvanometer. Mr Herbert and Mr O'Rorke.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red photographic apparatus (2)
connected with a Moll galvanometer and recording drum. The
muslin panels have been taken out of back of cage and net in
front of sitters raised. Small table was placed almost touching
lens table and touching the right curtain. It was about one
foot from the nearest point of the medium's chair. On it was
a small yellow handkerchief, a hand-bell and the artificial
camellia. Other objects for telekinesis as usual.
8.14. Door locked. Key: The Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
8.59. Small needle movements.
9.4. Ten minutes pause.
2nd Period.
9.20. Door locked. Key : The Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out. Ad-
miral Strutt has come in and joins Mr Herbert at galvan-
ometer. Mr O'Rorke sits between Hon. Mrs Lyttelton and
Mrs Fraser-Harris. Controllers unchanged.
9.55-10.10. Five shght movements of needle were reported.
Photograph taken.
10.28. Rudi-Olga asks for ten minutes pause.
3rd Period.
10.49. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Controller, Lord
Charles Hope, whose place was taken by Dr W. Brown.
11.10. Needle movement. Photograph.
11.15-11.51. Sixteen further movements reported.
11.52j. Table moves. Needle moves. Table moves.
11.52|. Needle movement.
300 Lord Charles Hope [part
11.53. Needle movement. Photograph.
12.1-12.15. Seven needle movements reported.
12.38. Sitting ends.
Notes. The small table which had been placed as described above
was moved two or three inches and also turned almost a quarter
round. The hand-bell was moved quite six inches towards the lens
table and away from the medium. The camellia had moved one
inch in the opposite direction and was found touching the handker-
chiefs, the position of which had remained unchanged.
Eighth Sitting. 3 Periods. 28 October 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W.
Sittees. Prof. Pollard (cont.), Mrs de Laszlo (asst. cont.), Mr
Gregory, Mrs Eraser-Harris, Lord Charles Hope, Lady Craik,
Mrs Pollard, Mrs Huxley.
At Camera. The Hon. C. Strutt. ,
At Galvanometer. Admiral Strutt and Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. The muslin panels are in at the back
of the medium's chair, and to half-way along sides of cage.
Muslin over top as at previous sittings. Muslin screen (see
plate 1) has been lowered between sitters and apparatus.
A miislin screen 6 ft. high has also been stretched from the
movable screen to the wall in front of the camera table. A
square aperture was made to allow the beam to reach the camera.
Another muslin screen 6 ft. high was stretched across the far
side of the cage to the corner of the room, completely separating
the projector table from the medium and sitters.
Waste-paper basket on top of lens box. Rose in usual posi-
tion. Toy harp below the lens table. Small table placed to
the right of lens table ; the position marked with chalk. The
nearest part of the table is 13" from the medium's chair and 6"
from the nearest wooden support of cage. On the table is the
hand-bell, at corner nearest medium, the camellia at the side
nearest to lens and opposite centre of lens box. Handkerchief
bunched up in centre of table. The positions of bell and camellia
are marked with drawing-pins. Balloon and water in cabinet as
usual. The recording drum was not used for the first period,
owing to a shortage of sensitive paper.
8.15. Door locked. Hon. C. Strutt takes key.
8.24. Circle formed.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 301
8.27. Muscular tremors starting.
8.30. Medium in full trance.
8.34. Medium breathing 25 breaths in 11 sees.
8.36. Medium gripping very tightly.
8.37. Needle moves.
8.38. Rudi-Olga, " Look out."
8.41. Rudi-Olga asks if anything has been seen. Mr Herbert
reports a small needle movement.
8.47. Needle moves.
8.49. Rudi-Olga, " Hold tight."
8.50. Rudi-Olga, " The power has been in the rays for some
time."
8.52. Rudi-Olga, " Sing Katharina."
8.57-9.12. Seven needle movements reported. Rudi-Olga says
the power is going to be very good. One photograph
taken.
9.14. Photo-electric cell flashes and shows a white light.
Medium falls forward.
9.15. Muscular tremors start again.
9.17. Olga returns. The circle apologises for the accident but
Olga says the power is destroyed.
9.19. Medium's movements weakening. Breathing 8 in 7i sees.
Movements very spasmodic.
9.21. Breathing 18 in 19 sees.
9.22. Controller reports that medium's movements have lost all
their vigour.
9.24. Rudi-Olga says the power is returning.
9.26. Needle moves.
9.27-9.29, 30. Seven needle movements reported. One photograph
taken. Rudi-Olga says she is going to make the power
stronger.
9.30. Needle moves.
9.30, 50. Needle moves.
9.33. Mr Gregory reports two successive strong puffs of cold air.
9.33, 5. Needle moves.
9.37. Olga-Rudi, " You must have a little more patience, then the
power will be very strong."
9.39. Needle moves. Medium squeezing.
9.40. Needle moves.
9.42. Rudi-Olga, " Look out, the table is going to move."
302 Lord Charles Hope [part
9.43. Needle moves as Kiidi-Olga says " Watch the rays."
9.44. Needle moves. Photograph taken.
9.46. Cold air felt by the circle. Kudi-Olga says, " The table has
moved several times. The power is now above the table."
9.48. Needle moves.
9.48-5. Needle moves.
9.49- 30. Needle moves. Medium gripping.
9.57. Rudi-Olga asks for ten minutes pause.
N.B. Notes given in full for first period only.
2nd Period.
10.13. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt.
Circle reformed. Mrs Huxley and Admiral Strutt change
places, Mrs Huxley goes to galvanometer. Lights out.
10.33. Rudi-Olga, " Look out."
10.34-10.37-40. Needle moves five times. Rudi-Olga says, " You
must watch very carefully, as the power will get stronger
and stronger."
10.39-10.25-15. Forty-nine needle movements are reported. Three
photos taken.
10.59-10. Mrs Fraser-Harris takes control at Rudi-Olga's request.
11.32. Rudi-Olga asks for ten minutes pause.
3rd Period. Mrs de Laszlo and Mrs Huxley leave. Door locked.
Key : Admiral Strutt. Circle reformed as follows : Mrs
Fraser-Harris (cont.), Lord Charles Hope (asst. cont.), Lady
Craik, Mr Gregory, Mrs Pollard, Prof. Pollard, Admiral Strutt.
Lights out.
11.55. Full trance.
12.0-12.2-30. Four needle movements.
12.10. Muslin curtain in front of apparatus raised.
12,16-12.38-10. Nine needle movements. One photograph taken.
12.52. Sitting ends.
Notes. The table had not moved from its original position. Photo-
graphic plates blank.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Eudi Schneider 303
Ninth Sitting. 4 Periods. 31 October 1932.
Special sitting at 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W.
Owing to shortage of sitters Captain Baillie sat in the circle and
the notes were recorded after each period.
Sitters. Lord Charles Hope (cont.), Miss Reutiner (asst. cont.),
Capt. Baillie, Frl. Mangl, Mr Gregory, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Mr
Herbert, Dr Fraser-Harris.
Arrangements and Apparatus. Infra-red ray and photographic
apparatus not in use. Rudi-Olga told that it was proposed, at
this sitting, to try only for telekinesis. Muslin panels and case
arranged as at the previous sitting. Muslin screen in front of
sitters raised to enable them to sit closer to the cabinet. Objects
for telekinesis arranged as at previous sitting.
8.25. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Circle formed.
Lights out.
8.33. Full trance.
8.34. Rudi-Olga asks for the infra-red photographic apparatus.
8.39. Ten minutes pause to prepare apparatus.
2nd Period. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Circle re-
formed as follows :
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
At Camera. Mr G-regory, Dr Fraser-Harris sits between Frl. Mangl
and Mrs Fraser-Harris. Controllers unchanged.
During this period there were small needle movements.
9.48. Pause.
3rd Period.
10.0. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Circle formed as
before. There were small needle movements during this
period. Rudi-Olga asked Lord Charles Hope and Capt.
Baillie to go into the cabinet. Dr Fraser-Harris took the
controller's place. They remained in the cabinet for 20
minutes but nothing happened.
11.30. Pause.
S '
304 Lord Charles Hope [part
4th Period.
11.40. Door locked. Key : Dr Eraser-Harris. Circle reformed.
Mr Gregory (cont.), Mrs Eraser-Harris (asst. cont.),
other sitters as before. No one in the cabinet. Small
needle movements reported.
12.15. Sitting ends.
Tenth Sitting. 3 Periods. 1 November 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W.
Sitters. Dr Eraser-Harris (cont.), Miss Eeutiner (asst. cont.), Lord
Charles Hope, Mrs Eraser-Harris, Lady Craik.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
At Camera. Hon. C. Strutt.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red (2). A new filter was fixed
over the projector which allowed less light to escape. The fight
that escapes is red. Cage arranged as at previous sitting.
Muslin screen in front of sitters lowered. Small objects for tele-
kinesis on table as before. Toy harp, balloon, rose and waste-
paper basket as before.
It was decided not to record small individual needle movements
in future reports as they are recorded photographically on the
drum.
8.15. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
8.36. One large needle movement about 20% of the total.
8.53-8.56. Two needle movements.
9.29. Rudi-Olga asks for ten minutes pause.
2nd Period.
9.47. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Circle and control as
before. The ray has failed and Rudi-Olga agrees only to
try for telekinesis during this period.
11.10. At Rudi-Olga's request Lady Craik to take assistant con-
troller's place.
Circle moves down one seat to make room for Miss Reutiner.
11.27. Pause.
3rd Period. Circle as before. Assistant controller, Mrs Eraser-
Harris.
11.44. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
12.20. Sitting ends.
131] Re-port of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 305
Eleventh Sitting. 3 Periods. 4 November 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W.
Sitters. Lord Ctarles Hope (cent.), Mrs de Laszlo (asst. cont.), Mrs
Fraser-Harris, Hon. Mrs Lyttelton, Major Courtauld, Mrs J.
Courtauld, Lady Craik.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
At Camera. Mr Gregory.
Arrangements and Apparatus. Infra red (2). Muslin screen and cage
with panels in place as at previous sitting. The ray from projec-
tor to lens was covered by cardboard tube as at 4tli sitting but
uncovered from lens to camera. Objects for telekinesis as usual.
8.46. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Lights out.
9.16. Rudi-Olga, " The power is in the ray."
9.17. Needle movement.
9.28. Needle movement. Photograph.
9.31. Large needle movement.
9.47. Pause. 10 minutes.
2nd Period. Circle as before. Mr Gregory and Mr Herbert change
places.
10.5. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Lights out.
10.24. Rudi-Olga, " Look out." Needle movement.
10.28. Rudi-Olga, " The power is in the ray." Needle movement.
10.42. Needle moves 4 mm. Photograph.
10.48. Rudi-Olga, " When I pinch the controller, look out."
Controller pinched, needle moves.
10.57. Controller pinched, needle moves.
11.8. Ten minutes pause.
3rd Period. Mr Gregory and Mr Herbert change places. Circle as
before. Controllers unchanged.
11.27. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Lights out.
11.37. Controller pinched, needle moves.
11.41. Controller pinched, needle moves.
11.44. Needle moves. Photo taken.
Constant small needle movements for ten minutes.
12.2. Needle moves. Photograph taken.
306 Lord Charles Hope [part
12.8. At Rudi-Olga's request the controllers are changed. Capt.
Baillie (cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.), Lord
Charles Hope takes notes, Mrs de Laszlo sits between
Mrs Fraser-Harris and Dr Fraser-Harris. Others same
order as before. Rudi-Olga says there will be something
on the photographs this time.
12.43. Three quick movements of the needle.
12.45. Four needle movements.
12.48. Two control photographs taken.
12.49. Sitting ends.
Notes. Rudi-Olga seemed to have the power much better in con-
trol at this sitting than at previous ones. Although the effects
registered by the galvanometer were not large, they were, in the
majority of cases, preceded by a warning from the medium and the
number of imrealised promises of " effects " to come was much
smaller than before.
Nothing appeared on the photographic plates. Hilger-Eastman
plates were used.
Twelfth Sitting. 4 Periods. 8 November 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W.
Sitters. Lord Charles Hope (cont.), Miss Reutiner (asst. cont.), Dr
Fraser-Harris, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Lady Craik, Mrs Huxley,
Mr Heard, Hon. C. Strutt, Lady D. Hope.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert and Admiral Strutt.
Arrangements and Apparatus. Photographic apparatus (2) not in
use. A new apparatus is installed consisting of a projector
moimted on a block of wood, which transmits a red beam on to
a caesium-on-silver photo-electric cell (4). All screens and
panels at back of cage in use as before. Objects for telekinesis
as usual. Positions marked in chalk.
8.15. Door locked. Key : Admiral Strutt. Lights out.
8.35. Needle movement.
8.47. Rudi-Olga, " Look out."
8.49. Needle movement.
9.7. Pause.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings ivith Rudi Schneider 307
2nd Period. Mr Heard and Admiral Strutt change places. Circle
and controllers as before.
9.21. Door locked. Key : Admiral Strutt. Lights out.
9.33-10.0. Several needle movements.
10.0. Circle and controllers changed at Rudi-Olga's request. Dr
Fraser-Harris (cont.), Lady D. Hope (asst. cont.), Miss
Reutiner, Lord Charles Hope, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Lady
Craik, Admiral Strutt, Mrs Huxley, Hon. C. Strutt.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
10.5-10.10. Several needle movements.
10.17. Pause.
3rd Period. Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.), Mr Heard changes
places with Hon. C. Strutt. Others as before.
10.35. Door locked. Key : Admiral Strutt. Lights out.
10.55. Needle movement. Rudi-Olga says " Hush." Several taps
are heard, seemingly on small table. Rudi-Olga, " The
power will be stronger."
11.0. Large needle movement.
11.17. Repeated needle movements.
11.36-11.47. Several needle movements.
12.5. Pause.
4th Period. Capt. Baillie has left. Notes recorded at end of period.
Circle changed to Dr Fraser-Harris (cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris
(asst. cont.), Miss Reutiner, Lord Charles Hope, Lady D. Hope,
Admiral Strutt, Lady Craik.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
12.25. Door locked.
1.0. Blank period. Sitting ends.
Notes. Needle movements in first three periods. Fourth period
negative.
308 Lord Charles Hope [part
Thirteenth Sitting. 3 Periods. 11 November 1932.
At 16 Queensherry Place, S.W.'L
Notes given in full.
'
Sitters. Dr Fraser-Harris, Mrs Fraser-Harris, Miss Reutiner, Mr
Gregory, Lady Crosfield, Mr Herbert, Hon. C. Strutt, Lord
Charles Hope, Capt. C. Baillie (taking notes).
Apparatus and Arrangements. No infra-red apparatus being used.
Position of table and harp marked with cbalk. Waste-paper
basket between table and cabinet, opposite curtain opening.
The bobbin is hanging between the red lamp and the cabinet,
with a balloon on the water. Handkerchief, hand-bell and
artificial flower on the table.
8.20. Door locked. Mr Gregory takes the key.
8.23. Trance commencing. Usual clonic movements.
8.25. Full trance. Usual greetings.
It is explained to Olga that the usual room could not be used
to-night.
8.30. Medium breathing 23 in 9 seconds.
8.33. Olga, " Look out."
'
'
.
'
8.37. Olga, " Watch the handkerchief."
8.38. Olga, " Sing Katharina."
8.42. Olga, " Have you seen anything at the handkerchief ?
"
Nothing reported.
Olga, " The notetaking light is too bright." This was put
out, and the notes put down at the first pause. Nothing
occurred. Olga, " Ten minutes pause."
9.16. Medium out of trance.
2nd Period.
9.31. Door locked. Mr Gregory takes the key.
A screen has been placed round the notetaker.
9.34. Trance commencing.
9.37. Medium in full trance. Usual greetings.
9.46. Olga asks Lord Charles to hold the handkerchief under the
red lamp. Lord Charles suggests it is better to use the
power on the curtains. Olga agrees.
9.47. The curtain bells are heard to ring repeatedly.
9.49. The curtain bells are heard to ring repeatedly.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 309
9.51. Tlie curtain bells are heard to ring repeatedly for a minute.
9.52. Olga, " Listen." Slight scraping noises are twice heard on
the floor.
9.53. Something is heard to fall.
9.55. Olga asks for applause and gets it.
9.59. The bells are heard to ring repeatedly.
10.1. Olga, " Look out." The table is heard to move. Right-
hand curtain moves very well and hits the bobbin. Cold
winds.
10.3. Lord Charles asks Olga if the Ught can be increased when the
power is stronger. Olga says " Yes."
Note. Dr Fraser-Harris thinks the curtain hit his right
hand, when it came out at 10.1.
10.11. Something is heard to move.
10.13. Curtain bells ringing. Lord Charles sees the right-hand cur-
tain moving.
10.15. A movement heard.
10.16. Cold air. The harp is heard to play.
10.17. Table is seen to move. Harp moves. Curtains move
strongly.
10.19. IVIr Herbert feels cold air on his right hand. Lady Crosfield
does not feel it on her left hand, which is holding his right.
10.21. Both curtains moving strongly and independently.
10.22. Olga asks Lord Charles to move the table nearer the curtain.
He asks Olga if he can leave it, as its position has been care-
fully marked. Olga agrees.
10.25. Olga asks the circle to close in to the cabinet. Very cold
air felt.
10.29. Olga tells the circle to close up still further, so that they can
see better. The table is heard to move.
10.30. Left curtain moves. Table jumps about for several seconds
and then is rocked. The bell is heard to fall olf.
10.32. Curtain moves. Table moves.
Olga, " Hush. " Table is scraped several times over the
floor, very noisily.
10.34. Olga asks for the medium's face to be wiped.
10.36. Table is heard to move towards its former position. Table
moving constantly.
Mr Herbert feels something on his left toe ; the table
falls on his right toe. The harp is by his left toe.
310 Lord Charles Hope [part
10.40. Olga, " You can increase the light." Table moves again on
Mr Herbert's toe. Table moves again.
10.41. Olga, " The gentleman (Mr Herbert) must look out."
10.42. Right-hand curtain bells ring.
10.43. Olga asks Lord Charles to hold the handkerchief under the
light. Lord Charles says he does not know where it is
and offers to produce another. Olga agrees.
10.45. Bells ring.
10.48. Olga asks that the light be slightly decreased.
10.50. Olga, " Count to ten."
10.52. Olga, " Please lower the light towards the floor."
It is explained that this cannot be done to-day.
10.55. Curtains moving. Table moving on Mr Herbert's foot.
10.56. Olga asks Lord Charles to hold the handkerchief nearer the
curtain.
11.2. Bells ring.
11.4. Medium limp
.
11.5. Olga, " It is best to have ten minutes pause, then I will
make a beautiful materialisation." The medium is too
hot. Olga asks for paper and pencil to be put on the table.
She is asked whether smoked paper for finger prints can
also be put there. She says " Yes."
11.9. Medium out of trance.
At second pause.
The small end of harp was found to have moved 40"
to the left, the harp lying on its side after being upright
;
the handkerchief is in the harp's place, and the table is to
the right, having been moved 15". The bottoms of both
curtains are wet, having been in the bowl of water.
Distances.
From medium's chair to right edge of right curtain, 26".
From medium's chair to left edge of right curtain, 64".
From medium's chair to the nearest part of table, 35".
From medium's chair to harp, 30".
Mr Herbert states that when the table was resting on his
toe, it moved when the light was good enough to allow him
to see all four legs and he could see nothing holding them,
or any other part of the table.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with RxlcU Schneider 311
3rd Period.
11.35. Door locked. Mr Gregory takes the key.
11.37. Trance commencing.
11.39. Full trance. Usual greetings.
11.42. Olga, " Will Lord Charles please put the harp and basket
under the table ?
" The basket is put under the table,
with the handkerchief on top. The harp is placed, with
Olga's approval, by the side of the table, as there is no
room for it underneath.
11.48. Olga, " Look out."
11. .57. Olga, " Look out under the lamp."
12.0. Olga asks for a change of assistant controller. Miss
Reutiner takes Mrs Fraser-Harris's place.
12.5. Olga, " Look out."
12.9. Olga, " The power will be stronger next time."
12.10. Olga, " I am getting all the power together."
Curtain bells ring.
12.12. Very powerful movement of right curtain. Left moved too.
12.13. Olga, " Look out. It is coming out of the cabinet under the
light."
12.14. Olga, " Please lower the light at first."
12.15. Olga, " Look out."
12.17. Olga, " Look out. It has been on the table. I think it is
going to be a hand."
12.18. Right curtain moves well. Cold air.
12.20. Table moves. Seen by Mr Herbert ; heard by all.
12.21. Bells ring. Left curtain moves. Both curtains move hard.
Olga, " Watch for the hand at the curtain opening."
12.22. Curtains moving.
12.24. Olga, " Try a little more Kght."
12.26. Olga, " Look out."
12.28. Right curtain moving.
12.30. Both curtains moving. Very cold air. Both curtains mov-
ing hard.
Olga, " The hand came out just now. You must look out."
Mr Gregory reported that the table seemed to get darker
at 12.30.
12.31. Both curtains moved while Olga was talking.
12.32. Bells ring. Both curtains move well.
12.33. Both curtains move. Table moves towards circle.
312 Lord Charles Hope [part
12.34. Table moves
:
12.35. A dark object with a straight edge reaching right across the
sheet of paper was seen to cover three-quarters of the
paper, and in moving back it swept the pencil and paper
on to the floor.
Olga asked for a description of what was seen. Mr Gregory
says it was dark, with a straight edge.
Olga says, " Next time I will make a hand."
(This was afterwards found, in all probability, to be the edge
of the curtain.)
12.39. Olga, " Look out."
12.42. Olga, " Please do not be cross, but I think I must close, as
it may be too much for the medium." She says the pencil
and paper are lying near the cabinet, and she has made a
slight impression on the smoked paper.
She says that the power is now in good form, and next time
she will make a lovely materialisation.
12.50. Mediimi out of trance.
After the sitting : paper is found on floor 12" from front right
table leg. Pencil f" from it. Flower between two right table legs,
5|" from front one. Table moved 4" towards medium from original
position at beginning of last period. No marks on writing paper.
Marks on right side of smoked paper pointing diagonally towards
cabinet.
Remarks
:
The medium was searched directly after the sitting by Lord Charles
Hope and Dr Fraser-Harris, with negative results.
As regards telekinesis, this was one of the best sittings in the series.
It should be noted that neither the infra-red apparatus nor the
muslin screen was used.
Both curtains moved freely and the bells on the right curtain
rang. Cold air, and occasionally very cold air, was reported. The
table was audibly and visibly moved, then upset and finally moved
when upset ; the harp was moved and played upon ; the movements
of the curtains were so extensive that one sitter (Dr Fraser-Harris)
felt the right curtain touch his right hand.
In evidence of this free movement of the curtains, attention may
be drawn to the entry in the notes where it is stated that the bottoms
of both curtains were wet, proving they had swung back into the
bowl of water. The small quantity of water sprinkled on the floor
at the beginning of the sitting was not sufiicient to have caused this
effect.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 313
At the close of the second part of tlie sittings, it will be noted that
" Olga " was asked whether smoked paper for finger prints might
be placed on the table ; this was permitted. On the lights being
turned up at the end of the sitting, it was found that instead of finger
prints on the smoked paper there were areas where the soot had been
completely removed and others in which it had been left in groups of
parallel lines.
After inspecting these markings, Mr Herbert came to the con-
clusion that they had been made by the edge of the curtain swinging
over the paper. Accordingly, after the sitting was over, he prepared
another piece of smoked paper and brushed its surface with the edge
of the curtain. The streaks made in this way are identical with those
made during the sitting.
The correspondence between the streaks made during the sitting
and those made on purpose afterwards is particularly close if one
scrutinises them imder a hand-lens.
Later the two pieces of smoked paper were shown to a finger-
print expert, who considered the marks all very similar.
Fourteenth Sitting. 3 Periods. 15 November 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W. . .
Sitters. Dr Fraser-Harris (cont.), ]\Irs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.),
Mrs de Laszlo, Lord Charles Hope, Miss de Zoete, Dr Zucker-
man, Mrs Huxley.
Back row. Lady Craik, Hon. C. Strutt, Mr Gregory, Capt.
Livens.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red apparatus ready but not in
use. Screens, cage and objects for telekinesis as before. MusUn
screen in front of sitters lowered.
8.19. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. Lights out.
9.5. Pause. Blank period.
2nd Period. Circle and control as before.
9.23. Door locked. Key : Mr Gregory. Lights out.
9.46. Rudi-Olga asks for infra-red apparatus to be used. Mr
Herbert goes to galvanometer.
10.32. Pause. Blank period.
3rd Period. Blank.
11.57. Sitting ends.
Notes. Negative sitting.
314 Lord Charles Hope [part
Fifteenth Sitting. 3 Periods. 18 November 1932.
At 65 Cadogan Gardens, S.W.
Sitters. Lord Charles Hope (cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cent.),
Miss Keutiner, Hon. C. Strutt, Lord Clive, Lady D. Hope, Mr
Wheeler Robinson, Mr Herbert.
Arrangements and ApjMratus. Infra-red apparatus ready but not in
use. Objects for telekinesis as usual. Muslin screen as usual.
8.16. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
8.29. Rudi-Olga asks for infra-red apparatus to be used. Mr
Herbert goes to galvanometer.
10.23. Pause. Blank period.
2nd Period. Circle and control as before.
9.15. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
10.23. Pause. Blank period.
3rd Period. Circle and control as before.
10.46. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
11.48. Sitting ends.
Note. Negative sitting.
Sixteenth Sitting. 3 Periods. 22 November 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Sitters. Lord Charles Hope (cont.), Miss Reutiner (asst. cont.),
Hon. C. Strutt, Mrs W. Brown, Lady Craik, Prof. C. G. Barkla,
Mrs Paget, Dr W. Brown, Lady D. Hope.
Back row. Mr Wheeler Robinson, Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red apparatus (4) ready but not
in use. Muslin screens in place shutting medium and sitters
from normal access to table, ray, etc. Objects for telekinesis
as usual.
8.25. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
8.42. Rudi-Olga asks for infra-red apparatus.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert. '
'
9.18. Pause. Blank period.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 315
2nd Period. Circle and control as before.
9.30. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
10.10. Prof. Barkla leaves.
10.38. Pause. Blank period.
3rd Period. Circle and control as before. Muslin screens have been
removed.
10.58. Door locked. Key : Hon. C. Strutt. Lights out.
12.3. Sitting ends.
Notes. Negative sitting.
Skventeenth Sitting. 2 Periods. 23 November 1932.
(Special.)
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Sitters. Lord Charles Hope (cont.), Miss Reutiner (asst. cont.), Frl.
Mangl, Capt. Cochrane-Baillie, Mrs Fraser-Hariis, Lady D.
Hope, Dr Fraser-Harris.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Owing to shortage of sitters Capt.
Baillie sat in the circle and the notes were written by Lord
Charles Hope and Dr Fraser-Harris after the sitting. Safety
stops had been fitted into the floor to prevent the medium's
chair from slipping. Muslin screens were removed. Infra-red
apparatus (4) in use. Objects for telekinesis on table. Toy
balloon in cabinet. Toy harp standing on floor ;
position marked.
1st Period.
6.15 to 7.0. Blank.
2nd Period. Circle as before. Controllers unchanged.
7.5. Door locked. Lights out.
At some point during this period Dr Fraser-Harris became
controller, changing places with Lord Charles Hope.
During the second period the first phenomenon was a bell tinkling,
evidently one of the six small bells on the inside of the right curtain.
There were four very considerable movements of the right curtain
and at least one seemingly independent movement of the left curtain
while the right was moving. There were at least four more slight
movements of the right curtain. The curtains did not appear to
fly out to any extent. Something was heard to fall, which was
probably the toy harp. This was found to have been moved about
316 Lord Charles Hope [part
4" and to be lying on its side, with tlie right curtain hanging
over part of it. The movement of the left curtain was noted by
me when I had changed places with Prof. Fraser-Harris at Rudi-
Olga's request. Before this change there had already been good
movements of the right curtain and good "effects" in the ray.
After Prof. Fraser-Harris and I had changed places there were some
very good and long deflections registered by the galvanometer just
after Rudi-Olga had said that she was about to bring the " power
"
out of the cabinet across the ray towards the sitters. In fact for
about half an hour during the second period Rudi-Olga seemed able
to get good " effects " in the ray almost whenever she wished, the
percentage of successes to total warnings from her being nearly
100 for a few minutes.
9.0. Sitting ends.
Notes. 1st period blank. 2nd period : Curtain movements.
Bells ring. Harp falls over. Needle movements.
Eighteenth Sitting. 4 Periods. 25 November 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Notes given in full.
Sitters. Capt. the Hon. V. Cochrane-Baillie (cont.), Mrs Fraser-
Harris (asst. cont.), Mrs De Gernon (translating), Mr C. C. L.
Gregory, Frl. Mangl, the Hon. C. Strutt, Admiral the Hon.
Arthur Strutt, Lady D. Hope, Prof. D. F. Fraser-Harris.
At Galvanometer. Mr C. V. C. Herbert.
Taking notes. Lord Charles Hope.
Apparatus and Arrangements. The arrangements are as for sitting
of 23 November except that two pieces of thick black cotton
have been fixed with drawing-pins, one across the whole front
of the cabinet curtains and one between the inside edges of the
wooden blocks on which stand the infra-red apparatus—these
are to prevent the curtains from swinging into the path of the
ray. As an experiment ice has been placed in the large bowl
inside the cabinet and a smaller bowl behind the medium.
The position of the smaller bowl has been marked. Inside the
cabinet behind the right edge of the right curtain two real
roses have been placed. The muslin screens, when in place, are
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 317
fixed with hooks on the inside. They reach from floor to ceiling.
On the extreme left there is a door of muslin, opening outwards.
A piece of muslin 35" high has been fixed in front of the sitters
from the wall on left to the support to left of medium, thus
leaving a space about 35" wide behind medium and in front of
both controllers.
8.30. Door locked. Admiral Strutt has key.
8.31. Circle all joined up. WHiite and red lights out.
Red light over table turned full down.
The muslin screens are out. The ray has not been turned
on.
Mr Herbert is sitting by notetaker.
8.34. Trance commencing.
8.36. Medium is limp.
8.38. " Olga " is here.
8.39. Olga says, " Gott ziim Gruss."
8.40. Olga is told of the ice being there and approves.
8.46. Olga says, " Look out."
8.48. Olga says, " Pay attention to the curtains."
8.50. Olga says, " Look out."
8.54. " Count to ten." Nothing seen.
8.56. "Pay attention to curtains." Nothing seen.
8.59. " Look out."
9.0. Olga says she is going into the ray. It is explained to her
that it has not yet been turned on.
N.B. Evidently " Olga " thought the ray had been on all
the time.
9.2. The ray is now on. Mr Herbert is with galvanometer.
9.4. " Count up to ten." This was done twice. No result.
9.8. " Look out."
9.9. Olga goes away.
9.10. She returns.
9.10J. Ten minutes pause.
9.11. Lord Charles Hope asks if Olga has seen the two roses he
has put in the cabinet.
9.12. Olga thanks him and says when she has them on the table
she will thank him personally for them.
9.13. Olga has gone. Medium limp.
9.14. Medium out of trance.
318 Lord Charles Hope [part
2nd Period.
9.30. Circle remade. Order of sitters and arrangements the same.
Eay turned on. Admiral Strutt has the key of the door,
which is locked.
9.32. Trance commencing.
9.33. Medium limp.
9.34. Olga arrives.
9.40. Olga says, " Sing '
Oh Katharina.' " Circle sings it.
9.42. Feeling of cold air reported by some sitters.
9.46. Olga asks if Dr Fraser-Harris feels anything. He says he
has not. Olga says, will he look out and say if he sees
anything.
9.50. Dr Fraser-Harris reports a distinct feeling of cold air round
his left knee.
9.52. "Sing." Circle oblige.
9.54. " Look out." Nothing seen.
9.55. It is suggested to Olga to ring the bells on the right curtain.
10.0. " Look out."
10.2. " Has anything been seen in the ray ?
"
Olga is told, " Not yet."
10.4. " Watch the table."
10.12. " Count to ten." Somebody thought a small scratching
sound heard.
" Again. Listen." Nothing heard.
10.13. Olga has gone.
10.13-|. Olga returns. She says she is coming in ten minutes with
her friend. She wishes ten minutes pause.
10.15. Olga has gone.
10.17. Medium out of trance.
3rd Period.
10.31. Door locked. Admiral Strutt has the key.
10.32. Circle remade. Lights out. Mr Strutt is with Mr Herbert
at galvanometer. Circle has closed up closer to cabinet.
Admiral Strutt is next to Frl. Mangl.
10.36. Trance commencing.
10.38. Olga arrives.
10.39. Olga is asked by Capt. C. Baillie to say if she wishes Lord
Charles Hope or anyone else to control instead of him.
Olga says all is well.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Eudi Schneider 319
10.46. Olga says she is going to make a proposition. The reason
for this is a very important one. She says Lord Charles
Hope is to go to Dr Eraser-Harris's place and the doctor
is to control. Capt. Baillie is to take notes. Frl. Mangl
is to leave the circle and sit by Capt. Baillie as some man
in the circle is thinking that she may be cheating.
N.B. There was no foundation for this thought on the
part of " Eudi-Olga."
11.7. Olga, " Talk if you want to, but it is not necessary."
11.11. Olga, " Have you seen anything in the ray ?
" A small
movement reported.
11.11-20. Another movement.
11.14. Curtain moves.
11.16. Olga, " The circle can come nearer."
11.17. Olga, " I am on the table."
11.19. Mr Gregory reports very cold air.
11.21. Olga, " I am going into the ray." Movement reported.
11.17. Several bigger movements.
11.32. Curtain bells ring.
11.34-7. Kecording paper being changed.
11.38. Olga, " Look out on the table."
11.45. Olga, " You must watch, as I have moved the bell on the
table."
11.51. Olga, " Eight minutes pause." Olga says she will only stay
for a few minutes afterwards.
Position of hand-bell found to be unchanged.
4th Period. Capt. Baillie has left. Mr C. Strutt acting as notetaker.
Miss Mangl sitting with Mr Strutt.
12.14. Trance commencing.
12.16-1-. Eull trance.
12.20. Mitzi (Erl. Mangl) to come into circle next Lord Charles,
says Olga.
She comes between Lord Charles Hope and Lady D. Hope.
12.24. Olga says she is in the rays : Herbert whistles.
12.30. " Must have patience." Herbert whistles.
12.301. "Hold tight."
12.35. Asks for " light " under table to be removed (luminous
paint). (An extra bit of ribbon with luminous paint had
been pinned on to bottom left corner of right curtain, the
T
320 Lord Charles Hope [part
better to show its movements. This omitted in beginning
of to-day's notes by an oversight.) Says it will be all
right if it is removed next time. If the power is not strong
enough it hurts (otherwise all right). It disturbs the
power as it comes out of the cabinet. Leave it now.
Something reported moving.
12.38. Lord Charles Hope asks, is it the small bowl of ice.
Olga says it is the harp.
12.39. Lord Charles reports hearing a movement.
Olga says power is on table.
12.40. Scratching noise. This was repeated. Thought by circle
to have been made on table ; but Olga says no, on the harp.
Olga says power going into ray : Herbert whistles ^ (re-
peatedly). Curtain reported moving (doubtful). Cold
air reported.
12.44. Whistling again by Herbert,
12.46. Olga says she will put more power in. A few seconds later
Herbert whistles to indicate increased power.
12.47. Curtain (right) came right out as far as cotton would let it.
This indicated by extra bit of luminous ribbon. Bells
ringing on right curtain.
Olga says, " Hold tight."
12.48. Accident. Medium has fallen over. Mitzi is upset—crying
out loudly and sobbing.
Medium is reported to have fallen on floor.
12.54. Eesumes fast trance breathing, though weakly.
12.56. Breathing improved.
12.58. Giving power back normally.
1.3. Olga says, " No damage has been done."
1.4. She will come on Sunday. Olga says the curtain was be-
tween light and the medium so he was not much hurt
(Olga means to indicate position of curtain, which was
flying outwards, had shielded the medium from the light.)
1.6. Olga, " Auf wiedersehen."
1.8. Trance ended.
At 12.48 it appears that power threw table over. The table on
falling struck the cotton thread which was stretched between the
transmitter and receiver of infra-red rays. The disturbance of the
transmitter shook ofi^ the filter over it and so gave out white light,
which affected the medium, who was thrown sideways on to the floor
—
^ " Whistling " to denote effects observed in the ray. To encourage the
medium.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Budi Schneider 321
so reports the controller, Dr Fraser-Harris. Actually the cotton
thread stretched between the blocks of wood supporting the infra-
red apparatus was not severed but the other piece of thread had been
dragged out of the wooden support for the muslin screen at back of
medium. (This may have been done by medium falling against the
support.) The support behind him next to wall was found loose
from the wall, a nail having been dragged out—or possibly by the
curtain movements, which were violent. The blocks of wood supporting
infra-red apparatus had been placed on rubber sponges to prevent
vibration and this facilitated the movement of the blocks, thus
causing the accident. The strip of muslin, as already reported, in
front of sitters, was removed after close of sitting and the position of
objects photographed, but it must be noted that before this was done
the position of the cm'tains (but not of the apparatus, table, etc.)
had been altered by Lord Charles Hope, who had pulled aside the
curtains. These, however, were put back into approximately their
original position, which was normal, and then the photograph taken.
Notes of last period taken by Mr C. Strutt and added to by Lord
Charles Hope shortly after the sitting ended.
Table was found completely reversed lying against the strip of
muslin dividing the sitters from the table, etc. About 21" from and
3" left of its original position. Harp lying 6" to 10" from its original
position. Small bowl of ice half turned roimd. The last two effects
may have been caused by the movement of the right curtain. The
hand-bell was on the floor to right, near table edge, and the flower
(camellia) and handkerchief under the table.
Objects placed inside the cabinet were found unmoved.
Nineteenth Sitting. 3 Periods. 27 November 1932.
(Special.)
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Controllers. Lord Charles Hope and Miss Eeutiner.
8 Sitters.
This sitting was arranged chiefly for the benefit of Mrs Osborne
Leonard, the well-known medium. Frl. Mangl, the medium's fiancee,
was also present. No infra-red apparatus or muslin screen was em-
ployed. No phenomena were observed except feeble movements of
the right curtain. Three of the sitters reported that they were
touched during the sitting. But nothing more definite took place.
Two days previously there had been the incident of a white light
shining accidentally during the sitting and this may have affected
the medium's powers.
Sitting started 5.21 and ended 8.38.
t2
322 Lord Charles Hope [part
Twentieth SiTTiNGt. 3 Periods. 29 November 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Sitters. Dr. Fraser-Harris (cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.),
Miss Reutiner, Hon. C. Striitt, Dr Zuckerman, Lady D. Hope,
Hon Charles Lyttelton, Lord Rayleigh, Lord Charles Hope.
At Galvanometer. Mr W. Robinson and Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red apparatus (4). The path
of the ray is covered by a net (3" mesh) stretched on a frame-
work. This made it impossible for the curtains to swing into
the path of the ray.
8.36. Sitting started.
12.25. Sitting ended. Negative.
TwENTY-PiEST SITTING. 3 Periods. 2 December 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Sitters. Lord C. Hope (cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.),
Mrs De Gernon, Hon C. Strutt, Prof. T. G. Barkla, Lady
D. Hope, Mr Gregory.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert and Mr W. Robinson.
Apparatus and Arrangements, Infra-red apparatus (4) with net cover.
Harp and toy balloon as usual. Objects for telekinesis on small
table.
8.25. Door locked. Key : Hon C. Strutt. Lights out.
9.14. A little crack is heard. Rudi-Olga, " It is the harp."
9.17. Rudi-Olga, " Lord C. Hope to say Peef, pafi, pouf five times."
At 5th " pouf " the harp falls over.
9.25. Right curtain moving hard ;
bells heard.
9.32. Rudi-Olga, " Has anything been seen in the ray ?
" Small
movement reported.
9.34. Rudi-Olga, " Did you notice a stronger movement ?
"
Slightly larger movement reported.
9.35. Ten minutes pause.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings ivith Rudi Schneider 323
2nd Period. Circle and control unchanged. Net cover for ray re-
placed by a muslin one.
9.55. Door locked. Key : Hon C. Strutt. Lights out.
11.7. Mr Gregory puts a handkerchief on his knee at Rudi-Olga's
request.
11.9. Handkerchief lightly pulled.
11.12. Handkerchief lightly pulled. "
'
11.14. Handkerchief flicked.
11.21. 12 minutes pause. ....
3rd Period. Circle and control unchanged.
11.40. Door locked. Key: Hon C. Strutt. Lights out.
12.12. ]\Irs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.) and Mrs De Gernon change
places at Rudi-Olga's request.
12.30. Sitting ends. 3rd period blank.
Twenty-second Sitting. Tuesday, G December 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S. W.
Notes given in full.
Medium : Rudi Schneider.
Sitters. Lord Charles Hope (cont.), iVIiss A. Reutiner (asst. cont.
and translator), Capt. the Hon. V. C. Baillie, J\Irs Fraser-Harris,
Mrs Brown, Dr William Brown, Prof. Fraser-Harris, Mr C. V. c'
Herbert (at galvanometer). Miss W. A. Shafto (taking notes).
Usual small table under red light. Hand-bell, camellia and small
handkerchief on table as usual. Harp standing on floor. Bowl of
water inside cabinet, toy balloon inside bowl. The same infra-red
apparatus is being used, with a muslin covering.
8.27. Door locked. Captain Baillie takes the key.
8.30. Trance begins.
8.32. Full trance. Usual greetings.
8.45. Olga, " I am trying to go into the rays."
8.54. " Look out. The power is going inside the box into the
rays."
8.55. " You must not go to sleep."
8.59. " Say '
Peef, paff, poof ' five times " (to Lord Charles Hope).
Nothing occurs.
324 Lord Charles Hope '
[part
" Sing '
Oh Katharina.'
"
Olga pats the controller's hands.
Olga gone away for a moment.
Trance ends.
Lights up. Door unlocked. (Interval.)
2nd Period.
9.34. Captain Baillie locks door as before and takes the key.
9.37. Trance commences.
9.39. Olga back again. Greetings.
9.46. Olga says, " You must be cheerful."
9.52. " Everybody coimt up to five." Nothing occurs.
10.7. " All count five again." Nothing occurs.
10.10. A little darker until the power is stronger.
10.11. Olga wants Mr Herbert asked has he seen something.
(Reply—Not yet.)
10.12. Lord Charles receives pinches from medium.
10.14. More and harder pinches.
10.15. Mr Herbert records small movements.
10.16. Olga says she is in the rays now.
10.17. Olga, " Does the friend see something now ?
" Mr Herbert,
" A movement just before she spoke."
10.18. It is going away from the box towards the curtain.
10.25. Olga, " You must be cheerful. You can talk, but it must not
be too serious. Lustig, lustig."
10.27. On being asked Olga does not wish singing.
10.31. Olga, " Look out for the curtain."
10.34. Olga has gone away for a moment.
10.35. Olga back again.
10.36. Olga, " The power will be better if you go away for a little
while and open the windows."
" Auf wiedersehen." Silence.
10.37. Lights up. Door opened. (Second interval.)
3rd Period.
10.55. Door locked. Light down.
10.57. Trance commencing.
11.0. Olga arrives. Greetings.
11.10. Sitters sing. .
9.5.
9.7.
9.15.
9.16.
9.18.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 325
11.15. Pinclies. The back of Lord Charles's hand is pulled along the
back of the arm of the other control.
11.16. Olga asks that the nextjady should change places with Miss
Reutiner because Rudi has used all her power. Mrs
Fraser-Harris changes places with Miss Reutiner.
11.18. Sitters sing.
11.33. Olga, "Watch. Lookout." . .
11.35. Olga asks for more light.
Olga, " Lustig, lustig."
11.45. " Look out for the curtain."
11.46. Olga, " All count ten."'
11.50. Movement of the curtain is reported.
Olga asks for an 8 minute pause. Olga would like to try
again and would not mind if the circle were smaller if it is
necessary for any of the members to go.
11.53. End of trance.
11.55. Lights up and door unlocked. (Third interval.)
4th Period.
12.4. Lights out. Door locked as before.
12.6. Trance commencing.
12.9. Full trance. Greetings.
12.20. Movement of curtains.
12.25. Fairly strong movement of curtains.
12.26. The breathing becomes very quick.
12.27. Olga says she hopes to do something great presently.
12.33. Olga, " Look out." Curtains move at the extreme right.
12.35. Right curtain moves again.
12.37. Quite strong movement of curtain.
12.42. Olga, " Look out. Watch on the table under the lamp.
Look out. Watch, watch."
12.43. Olga, "Watch. The curtain is moving."
12.45. Rudi's face being hit against Lord Charles's hand, as he
moves in his trance. .
12.47. More pinches. "Lookout."
12.48. " Look out on the left." •
-
12.52. Olga asks sitters to count five.
12.55. Sitters sing.
Olga asks that there shall be no more singing.
1.0. Sitters requested to count eight, . ; v 'v
326 Lord Charles Hope [part
1.3. Olga says something might come, but it is late and hot.
Lord Charles Hope suggests the sitting had better stop.
Olga, " Wait a moment."
1.6. Discussion with Olga as to next sitting, which is to be Friday,
and then another on Sunday at 5.30.
1.11. Medium out of trance.
1.14. Lights up. Door unlocked. ..
The harp is found to have fallen on its side and has been moved
several inches during the sitting.
The red light over the table had been turned down low all the
sitting and was of little value.
Twenty-third Sitting. 3 Periods. 9 December 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S. W.
Sitters. Lord C. Hope (cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.),
Mrs De Gernon, Hon C. Strutt, Mrs W. Brown, Mr A. D.
Mackenzie, Mrs Julian Huxley, Dr W. Brown, Miss Reutiner.
At Galvanometer. Mr W. Robinson and Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Usual objects for telekinesis on small
table. Harp, toy balloon in cabinet. Infra-red apparatus (4)
with muslin cover. Muslin screen in front of sitters.
8.17. Door locked. Key: Hon C. Strutt. Lights out.
8.56. Pause. Negative period.
27id Period. Circle and control unchanged.
9.10. Door locked. Key : Hon C. Strutt. Lights out.
10.10. Pause. Negative period except for doubtful sounds from
near the table. ...
3rd Period. Circle and control unchanged.
10.40. Door locked. Key : Hon C. Strutt. Lights out.
11.2. Harp is heard to fall over and right curtain moves for about
20 sees.
11.39. Small ray absorption.
12.7. Sitting ends.
Note. The harp was lying on its side two or three inches from its
original position. Probably the movement of curtain knocked it
over.
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 327
Twenty-fourth Sitting. 3 Periods. 11 December 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Sitters. Dr Fraser-Harris (cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.),
Mrs De Gernon, Prof. Pollard, Miss Reutiner, Mr Gregory,
Mrs Pollard, Lord C. Hope.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Apparatus as usual.
1st Period. Ray covered with net. Muslin screen in front of sitters.
8.17. Door locked. Blank period.
2nd Period. Net as before. Muslin panels of cage in place.
9.24. Door locked. Blank period. Ended 10.16.
3rd Period. Net replaced by muslin. Panels and screen removed.
11.49. Door locked.
12.23. Sitting ended. Negative sitting.
. Note. The medium was suffering from a bad cold and did not
seem well.
Twenty-fifth Sitting. 4 Periods. 13 December 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W
.
Sitters. Prof. Pollard (cont.), Miss Reutiner (asst. cont.), Mrs
Fraser-Harris, Mr Gregory, Mrs De Gernon, Lord C. Hope, Mrs
Pollard, Dr Fraser-Harris.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red apparatus (4) covered with
net. A new photographic apparatus has been installed (3).
Muslin screen removed. Waste-paper basket is upside down on
floor to right of table. The harp is on the top of it. Position
marked by chalk.
8.21. Door locked. Key: Mr Gregory. Lights out.
9.1. Pause. Blank period.
2nd Period. Circle and control unchanged.
9.14. Door locked. Key : Mr Gregory. Lights out.
9.35. Rudi-Olga, "Hush." Scratching heard. The harp is heard
to fall over. On being asked Rudi-Olga says it was done
with the curtain.
328 Lord Charles Hope [part
9.44. Scratching heard again.
10.0. Rudi-Olga, " You can take the photograph." Photo taken.
10.30. Pause. The harp was lying on its side near the new appara-
tus, the waste-paper basket on its side against the curtain.
3rd Period. Circle and control as before. Basket placed against the
curtain with base towards the medium.
10.52. Door locked. Key : Mr Gregory. Lights out.
The infra-red apparatus (4) is not in use during this period.
Mr Herbert sits in circle between Dr Praser-Harris and Mrs
Pollard.
10.59. Pull trance.
11.35. Rudi-Olga, " Count ten; at ten take photo." Photo taken.
11.58. Pause. Blank period.
4th Period. Mr Herbert at galvanometer. Circle and control un-
changed. Photographic apparatus taken away. Harp re-
placed in its usual position on floor. Basket is placed on table
with rose on the top of it. Muslin screens are placed in position.
Infra-red apparatus (4) in use.
12.19. Door locked. Key : Mr Gregory. Lights out.
12.26. Full trance.
1.18. Sitting ends. Blank period.
Notes. The photographs were unsuccessful.
Twenty-sixth Sitting. 4 Periods. 15 December 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Sitters. Dr Fraser-Harris (cont.), Mrs Fraser-Harris (asst. cont.),
Mrs De Gernon, Mr C. F. Leahy, Miss Reutiner, Miss Mangl,
Lord Charles Hope.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert. ^
Notetaker. Miss Shafto.
Apparatus and Arrangements. Infra-red apparatus (4) with net
cover. Muslin screens are all in place. Objects for telekinesis
as usual. Waste-paper basket on floor to right of table. Harp
on top of basket. Toy balloon in cabinet.
8.25. Door locked. Key : Dr Fraser-Harris. , . ,
131] Report of a Series of Sittings with Rudi Schneider 329
8.31. Full trance.
8.33. Medium out of trance. 12 minutes pause.
Note. The first period was unusually short, trance only lasting
about five minutes. Immediately before the sitting the medium had
heard one of the two records, recently taken, of his trance breathing.
He had been told that he could hear the second one later in the even-
ing. It seems probable that his anxiety to hear the second one had
shortened the first period of trance.
2nd Period. Circle and controllers unchanged.
8.49. Door locked. Key : Lord C. Hope. Lights out.
8.54. Full trance.
9.12. Rudi-Olga, " Has Mr Herbert seen anything in the rays ?
"
Not yet.
9.17. Very shght movements.
9.48. Pause.
3rd Period. Blank.
4th Period. Circle and control changed. Muslin panels removed
Lord C. Hope (cont.), Miss Reutiner (asst. cont.), Mrs Fraser-
Harris, Mr Leahy, Mrs De Gernon, Frl. Mangl, Dr Fraser-Harris.
11.30. Door locked.
12.11. Sitting ends. Blank period.
Note. With the exception of one small movement the sitting was
negative. ,
Twenty-seventh Sitting. 4 Periods. 16 December 1932.
At 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.
Sitters. Prof. Pollard (cont.). Miss Reutiner (asst. cont.), Mrs
Fraser-Harris, Lord C. Hope, Mrs Pollard, Mr W. Robinson, Mrs
De Gernon, Mr Gregory.
At Galvanometer. Mr Herbert.
Apparatus and Arrangements . Infra-red apparatus (4) with net cover.
No muslin screens used. Objects for telekinesis on table as
usual. Harp on top of basket as at previous sitting. Balloon
in cabinet. Some carnations placed under the small table ;
position marked.
8.22. Door locked. Key : Mr Gregory. Lights out.
8.26. Full trance.
330 Lord Charles Hope [part 13 1]
8.29. Lord C. Hope puts harp on table at Rudi-Olga's request.
End of harp flush with right edge of table.
8.40. Very slight movements in the infra-red.
8.44. Mr Robinson joins Mr Herbert.
9.5. Rudi-Olga, " I may be able to go into rays." Small move-
ment.
9.8. Pause.
Note. It is doubtful if these movements in the infra-red were of a
paranormal nature.
2nd Period. Circle and control unchanged.
9.31. Door locked. Key : Mr Gregory. Lights out. Harp still
on table with handkerchief in front of it.
10.26. Paiise. Blank period.
3rd Period. Dr Fraser-Harris joins circle between Mrs Pollard and
Mr Robinson.
10.48. Door locked. Key : Mr Gregory. Lights out.
10.55. Full trance.
11.0. Waste-paper basket hits Lord Charles Hope on right knee
and falls at his feet.
11.38. The basket rolls over at Mrs Harris' feet.
11.56. 12 minutes pause.
Note. The basket is lying 51" away from its original position. It
must have gone over or round the infra-red apparatus, to hit Lord
Charles on the knee. Prof. Pollard is certain that he had the medium
under full control all the time.
4th Period.
12.16. Door locked. Key : Mr Gregory. Lights out.
12.22. Full trance.
1.26. Sitting ends. Blank period.
4
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 132
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS ^
BY
The Hon. Mes Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.
When I looked down the list—the distinguished list of your Presi-
dents—and realised more acutely than before the eminence of those I
was invited to succeed, I confess I felt daunted. I have no claim
and no right to be in this position. I have had no scientific training,
I am neither a psychologist nor a metaphysician nor a philosopher,
and when I cast about for a reason why your Council appointed me,
I am at a loss. I have found an excuse for them though not a
reason, but an excuse which I do not fancy they ever thought of.
With the possible exception of Professor Gilbert Murray I believe
I ain the only one of your Presidents who has to admit that his or
her interest in psychical research is mainly due, not to a scientific
curiosity, but to the desire to explain certain personal experiences,
and to confirm or destroy the idea that he or she was possessed of
mediumistic powers. I can well imagine that most people would
feel such a qualification was not a qualification at all, but a dis-
ability. A great detachment and calm acceptance of any fact,
however disturbing to preconceived ideas, are not, they would say,
among the probable characteristics of a mediumistic personahty.
A President of this Society should be apart from any participation
in the occurrences and tendencies which it exists to study.
But I am not sure if I agree with this view, even though I freely
admit that the kind of dissociation of consciousness which medium-
ship involves would not seem to be the best mental equipment
for dispassionate study. Yet there is also perhaps some advantage
^ Delivered at a General Meeting of the Society, 27 September 1933.
T7
332 The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E. [part
to be gained from an inner acquaintance with the pitfalls, the
difficulties and, let me say at once, the limitations of mediumship.
In my own case, just because my powers, such as they are, are
very restricted and faint, I have found any glib and simple explana-
tion impossible to accept. When a medium has what is called a
special Control who purports to transmit messages from discarnate
personalities, and the medium completely believes in the separate
existence of the Control, the explanation is considered obvious and
simple. But my mediumship was, or I may still say, is not of that
kind. I have never felt as if I were being taken possession of by
another being, but I have often felt that someone or something
quite imknown to me is speaking to my innermost consciousness,
sometimes in words, but more commonly in pictures—inner mind
pictures. This kind of inner voice and inner picturing has been a
part of my being ever since I can remember anything, and it was
only when I was well over thirty that I realised the connection of
these experiences with any form of reality. Gradually, owing to
certain circumstances with which I will not bother you, I began to
suspect a consonance with the world I lived in, and a peculiar sense
of communication and perhaps of guidance from some other place.
Since then I have read and studied and experimented and have come,
for myself, to certain definite conclusions. It is of these I wish to
speak to-day, for they bear upon the work of this Society and might
possibly stimulate further study on certain lines.
Professor Richet pubhshed in 1928 a book which he calls Notre
Sixieme Sens, and followed it in 1931 by a further volume called
UAvenir et la Premonition. Professor Richet thinks we have a
sixth sense, and that some of the riddles of existence might be
solved or be nearer solution if we explored it. His hypothesis is
that what he calls " the vibrations of reality " reach and are felt
by the sixth sense of certain sensitive people, and are thus trans-
mitted to their consciousness.
He really has two hypotheses, for his " vibrations of reahty " is
one and his sixth sense is another ; in his view they are inter-
dependent. I will quote the final summing up of his conclusions
(page 247 of Notre Sixieme Sens) :
" The world of reaUty sends out
vibrations which surround us. Some are received by our senses,
others not perceptible to our senses are disclosed by apparatus ; but
there are still others not perceived by our senses or by our apparatus
which act upon certain human intelligences and reveal to them
fragments of reality."
He goes on to say that there are certainly more vibrations than
either our physical senses or our apparatus or our sixth sense can
discover, and that—I quote again
—" the world of atoms, electrons,
stars, planets, animals, microbes, chemical reactions, heat, electri-
132] Presidential Address 333
city are perhaps only a minute part of reality. Other forces of a
totally different order no doubt act upon us. Who knows if those
other non-material worlds do not control our destinies ? We shall
perhaps never know these forces ; our descendants will perhaps not
know them either. But that is no reason why we should deny their
existence." "It seems to me," he says finally, "that the sixth
sense is a small, an extremely small, window opening on to these
mysterious powers."
Eichet's hypothesis of the " vibrations of reality " I do not
propose to discuss—I am not competent to do so. But his demon-
stration of what he calls the sixth sense rests mainly upon incidents
and experiments with which we are all familiar and adds very little
to our knowledge, though it is naturally of deep interest to us that a
scientific man of Professor Richet's eminence should be so impressed
by the results of psychical research that he has been forced, as it
were, to account for them by the hypothesis of a new sense. At the
end of his book he hazards the suggestion that we may be witnessing
the beginning of a new stage in human evolution.
I do not think the phrase " sixth sense " is a very happy one, at
any rate in English, for the word sense is too much bound up with
our physical senses ; but it has one advantage, namely that it
gathers together all the many kinds of sensitiveness which we are
always investigating and recognises that they form one group of
phenomena. I am interested mainly in those which are mental, and
that is why I prefer to limit myself to-day to what I will call super-
conscious rather than supernormal faculty, because I mean the
perception of something of which the conscious mind is ignorant
and the term supernormal might include an extended but a conscious
range of one or other of the senses.
By superconscious power or faculty, then, I mean the acquisition
of knowledge which is not in the content of the conscious mind, and
cannot be obtained by any normal use of the senses, though any one
of them may form part of the mechanism of expression. I am
myself of opinion that almost all psychic faculty, as shown by an
extended use of the senses of sight and hearing, touch, taste or smell,
are mere mechanisms for expressing the knowledge of the super-
conscious mind. But I will return to this later. Under the
classification of abnormal mechanisms, telepathy of course_ takes
the largest place and is probably the dominating factor behind all
kinds of mechanisms which convey superconscious knowledge. I
need not here describe the kind of knowledge which we can call
superconscious, knowledge of events in the past or at a distance,
knowledge of conditions of health, of emotion, all unknown to the
conscious mind of the percipient. We are familiar with such
instances. But among these, incomparably the most important
334 The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, O.B.E. [part
as well as tlie rarest cases of superconscious knowledge have to do
with, the future, and come under the heads of precognition, pre-
monition, prophecy. I will return to this matter also later ; mean-
while I would draw your attention to what I cannot help feeling is
a significant fact. It is this : I have been at some pains to examine
the different mechanisms through which superconscious knowledge
is sometimes expressed—trance, automatic speech and writing,
mechanisms such as ouija boards, table-tilting, rappings, clair-
audience and clairvoyance, cryptaesthesia, mind pictures and so on
—
and I have found that the same kinds of verifiable superconscious
knowledge have been obtained by all these methods. Further, a
real knowledge of the future is occasionally shown and events have
been predicted which even the longest arm of coincidence cannot
reach, and which by no stretch of telepathic access could have been
foreseen. Here is the nodal point of the deeper mystery. The
intercommunication between mind and mind is obscure enough by
itself ; all work which tends to demonstrate telepathic power is
intensely valuable and important, but it is especially so when it
bears upon the baffling problem of precognition.
Some people have felt that the telepathic explanation of every
utterance of a medium, for instance, has been stretched to breaking
point, others that the implications of the existence of telepathy have
not yet been sufficiently worked out, and that there is no exhibition
of knowledge of the past, present or future which cannot be ac-
counted for by an imcanny power to explore the recesses of other
minds, even the unconscious hoardings, as well as knowledge, of
other incarnate minds, however far they may be removed in space
and however unrecognised the contact.
I have always, for myself, felt inclined to stretch this nebulous
explanation to its uttermost limit, although I am continually
surprised that its advocates, once they have accepted the enormous
powers of telepathy, should not have speculated more on the
explanation of this explanation. What exactly is the process of
telepathy and how is it used ? And still more, how does a medium
in trance or out of it explore another mind and discover facts
unknown to the owner of that mind, discriminate cleverly between
what is relevant or may be relevant, combine the nuggets of fact
with other knowledge, fuse them by some alchemy, and present a
connected communication ? Is it any wonder spiritualists feel that
the intervention of another form of life which they call a spirit is
the only explanation ? But then there is the disturbing considera-
tion that the spirits, if they be spirits, dramatise, lie, mislead.
Spiritualists explain this by saying that it is the mind of the medium
which intervenes and spoils the pure commimication. I think it
would be worth while to examine all recorded utterances of the
132] Presidential Address 335
direct voice, or apparent direct control of the medium by a recog-
nised personaUty, to see if these are freer than any other medmmistic
communication from invention and falsification. If that proved
to be the case it might support the spiritistic theories, and it there
proved to be no such immunity it would also be an interesting tact.
Some investigations now proceeding may throw light upon this
matter. .
I am digressing however. I said just now that i thought it very
significant that all forms of supernormal expression—I except
physical materialisations, for I have not studied them at all— but
otherwise all the different mechanisms which I have examined can
and do transmit information beyond the range of the conscious
mind of the medium, and in some instances beyond the range ot the
conscious part of any mind at all. Admittedly this is of rare
occurrence, but it has happened and it is still happening. I cannot
give the evidence here and at this moment for such a statement-
it would take too long—but that information beyond the range
not only of the medium's conscious mind, but of any other conscious
mind, comes through all abnormal mechanisms must be conceded.
I submit it is significant that all forms of supernormal expression
occasionally exhibit these powers. Of what is it significant ? And,
especially, what does the real knowledge of the future, shown now
and then, imply ?
i
•
i
Attempts are constantly made to explain say cryptaesthesia by
some hidden vibration, or some impalpable record left upon the
object ; or clairvoyance by traces left upon the ether ;
or to account
for the knowledge of impending danger by observations uncon-
sciously made. Of course the useful word telepathy is always
handy if the information could have been gleaned from any other
conscious or superconscious part of a mind. But if every kind of
superconscious knowledge can be conveyed to the conscious mmd,
by every form of abnormal expression, does it not look as if the
knowledge is not actually obtained by any physical means, but is
only conveyed to the conscious part of mind by their help ? The
supernormal forms of expression are very various and include the
apparent extended use of sight, sound, touch and so on. Is it
likely that in themselves these extended physical powers could
reach such differing forms of knowledge? When driven into a
corner people say that every acquisition of superconscious knowledge
is an example of telepathy and leave it at that.
But to say that superconscious knowledge has been acquired
telepathically is not to give an explanation, but merely throws the
explanation a little further back. In so far as it tends to establish
the idea of one faculty instead of several it may be an advantage.
But you do not solve one problem merely by presenting another.
336 The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E. [part
I contend that since superconscious knowledge of all kinds comes
through all forms of abnormal mechanism, a unifying hypothesis
is demanded. Further, that the content of the message obtained
is of far more importance than the method of obtaining it and that
every such message should be judged on its content, exactly as if
it were a normal utterance.
But to return, as I said I would, to the matter of precognition.
Knowledge is often loosely called knowledge of the future when it
may be no more than the result of tapping knowledge possessed by
another mind. We understand very little of the process called
telepathy ; we only know that it exists, and that it seems beyond
our conscious volition. A fictitious example of the wrongly called
knowledge of the future might thus be the prediction that a certain
person would arrive in a few days when no knowledge of the intention
of a visit existed. But the project might have been in the visitor's
mind and so discovered. There are cases, however, displaying a
knowledge of the future which could not be gleaned by telepathy
from the conscious or superconscious part of any living mind, and
could not even be deduced from knowledge superconsciously
acquired. In such a category are those strange flashes of knowledge
as to which horse is going to win in a race, or as to the number
about to be drawn in a secret ballot or lottery, or the order in which
five or six cards will be dealt foretold some hours before a shuffle.
The case of Miss Nancy Sinclair in vol. xx of the Journal is worth
study in this connection ; also those instances of prophetic state-
ment, foretelUng of events, important or trivial, disastrous or
successful, beyond the range of deduction. Such instances, well
attested, exist ; there is no denying the fact. I think it is Professor
Richet who says that even one undeniable occurrence of the kind
is significant of a mystery we have not fathomed,—and there are
many such. I am only dealing at this moment with the baffling
examples in which real knowledge of the future, the unpredictable,
the unforeseeable future, has been displayed. Admittedly these
examples are rare. They are, of course, owing to the requisite
condition of being unknown to any mind, mainly concerned with
accidents or games of chance, though detailed statements of events to
come in the future have been made and justified. Most of us know
of people who have been warned by some strange compulsion not to
go on a certain ship or travel by a certain train. And there are also
cases of an extreme triviality, which show real knowledge of a future
happening, of so meaningless a nature that the word prediction
would seem to crush them, yet they too have been foreseen. I have
collected a few of these in a book called Our Swperconscious Mind,
which develops at some length the point I am trying to make.
It seems that when we tackle the qixestion of foreknowledge and
132] Presidential Address 337
what it implies we are forced to entertain a different conception of
Time. Past, present, future, is to us a ceaseless movement, the
constant passing of moments into our ken, past it, and out of our
contact. Instead of talking as we do of past, present and future we
should reverse the order and speak generally of future, present and
past, since that is the procedure of Time as we know it. It comes to
us serially ; from the future it passes us and disappears into the
past. The habit of talking of it in the other sequence springs
perhaps from man's anthropocentric point of view. Because he does
not normally know the future he assumes that it does not exist,
except in relation to his own perception of it. The past he has
experienced, the present he is experiencing, but the future, in his
opinion, does not yet exist. What if it does % What if it is already
on the film being unrolled before our eyes 1 It may be that we can
cut and adapt or even remake the film, but still it may be there
already.
I cannot pursue this enquiry ; it is too baffling. But possibly
man's incurable anthropocentric attitude is, for all its crudity, on
the right line after all ; that instead of passing from the future
into our present and then into our past, Time is in reality our
property, our stuff, and that we mould it, often unconsciously, into
the future. Instead of standing at the point where Time passes us
we are perhaps gathering up past and present and making the future
ourselves. Some few of us become aware of what it is we are
making. However that may be, it seems we have to realise that
from some other angle, or on some other plane of being. Time is
different from the passing, evanescent, vanishing time we know,
and that occasionally we become aware of this.
It may be that there exists, even among human minds, a supreme
power of deduction, in most people unconscious and unexercised, a
power to see all the contributory influences, great and small, which
go to make the sum of the future. If such a power exists, it might
imply also the faculty to create and shape those influences, a power
of which man is very feebly conscious. I know all this is in the realm
of fantasy.
But leaving aside the question of the future, so soon as we have
to admit that the human mind is capable of these astonishing
expansions we have also to admit that many minds, and possibly
all minds, have potentially the power to gather knowledge and
counsel from other minds ; that this is usually an unconscious
process, and that we have not the faintest notion how it is done.
Psychologists and psycho-analysts have taught us a great deal about
ourselves, especially perhaps the latter, because they have burrowed
more into the obscu.re regions of our whole mental constitution and
rummaged among our dreams and fantasies and other disjecta
338 The Hon. Mrs Alfred LyUeUon, G.B.E. [PAET
membra of thought, and have discovered the strange co-relation
between the conscious and the unconscious parts of our being. But
neither can they describe how this co-relation is or can be brought
about.
The unknown regions into which these mental excursions pene-
trate must have significance for us when we are trying to form
some rational idea of our constitution. If one mind can tap the
content of an unconscious part of another mind and serve it up, as
it were, to an outside consciousness,—a relationship, a method of
communication is implied, totally different in scope and practice
from the usual one of speech and gesture, far more tenuous and
more subtle, and arguing some intercourse beyond that of our five
material senses. When joined to this indubitable experience we
find knowledge beyond the possibility of deduction by any mind,
such as knowledge of the winner of a race, or of the result of a chance
draw in a lottery, or the order in which cards will be dealt, or the
long detailed knowledge of several incidents in the future, we are
faced with the problem at its most mysterious : a problem far
exceeding in difficulty and import the comparatively simple one of
discovering how unknown incidents in the past are reproduced by
mediums.
I have sketched a familiar problem and I move again into the
realm of pure speculation. Starting from the idea that we are
ignorant of our own constitution and are surprised sometimes by
the emergence of an animal and primitive passion, but still more by
an unguessed power of divination or induction, I am inclined to
believe that we live, not only within the narrow confines of our
physical body, but have a life outside it as well, a life of which we are,
in the main, unconscious. Professor Richet is very contemptuous
when writing of his hypothesis about " vibrations of reality." He
says :
" Let us make this hypothesis and not admit the other, far
more fantastic, that the human soul travels about the universe
where she meets no obstacles, to seek and to find the distant reality,
and after this excursion reveals it to consciousness." " Travels
"
here is an unnecessary spatial metaphor. Mind no more travels in
groping among impressions than a wireless operator when he tunes
in different wave lengths. But in saying that a human being lives
another life than the one of which he is conscious it is not necessary
to imply a separate entity. Once the expansion of the powers of the
mind is admitted, as Richet unreservedly does, it is not ridiculous
to conceive that part of the mind sometimes receives impressions
from reality, or if you wish from vibrations of reality ; and indeed
Professor Richet's whole exposition rests on this possibility. The
confusion comes, I think, from the use of the words soul and sense,
instead of mind. At least the hypothesis of part of our mind being
132] Presidential Address 339
able to get into contact with influences from another region suffi-
ciently like that in which we live, for us to understand its language,
starts from something of whose existence we are aware. The
further step of demonstrating that knowledge is gleaned from
another field of existence is only possible if something can be gathered
which is utterly beyond the reach of any human mind, and yet can
be understood. There certainly are great forces, rhythms, ideas
which are beyond the understanding of even the most developed
men of our race, but there is at least one kind of knowledge which,
though far beyond our grasp, we can yet understand, and that is
the detailed knowledge of a future happening which cannot be
explained by deduction or by telepathy. Somewhere, somehow,
there appear to be intelligences which know minute, trivial, un-
interesting events, as well as great and important ones, in the
future. Spiritualists explain these foretellings by saying that
spirits of the dead know them and impart them to us. This may be
true, but I think it both more probable and more suggestive that
we ourselves (that developed portion of ourselves of which we have
been speaking) come into contact with influences from another field
of existence and gather information. It is to be noted that this idea
tallies with what we are told by the illuminated, religious, artistic
and psychical ; the mystical region reached after the dark night of
the soul is traversed ; the dreams of poetical and other genius : the
visions and intuitions of mediums. This idea has a relation also to
the theories of survival. If we can transcend our material senses
while still inhabiting a body, can gather information and can impress
other minds without the aid of the senses, it is not a very great step
to imagine that we may continue to do this when the body has
decayed, that is, without the physical body as we now know it. Be
all this as it may, I am convinced that our Society has been right to
devote itself strenuously to investigations into the expended powers
of the mind.
In the matter of communication with the dead I incline to the
idea that the superconscious part of a living mind may establish
contact with another plane of being, rather than that discarnate
spirits visit the plane on which we live, though I should be far from
saying this never happens. But, as a general rule, I am of opinion
that it is a part of our own mind which reaches out and, as I said,
makes contact with discarnate minds. Some of the absurdities and
incongruities of the purely spiritualistic theories are then dissolved.
The spirits of the dead need not be accused of fatuous complacence
or foolish mimicry ; need not be blamed for a pre-occupation with
uninteresting and trivial details ; it is that part of our own mind
still tied up with our conscious mind which plucks this and that
from their minds and weaves them together, much as mediums are
340 The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E. [part
supposed by critics to do through telepathy. We have ouly our-
selves to blame for any exaggerations and falsifications. We know
that part of our minds can gather knowledge from other minds,
sometimes unconsciously possessed, and precisely the same process
may perhaps be used to communicate with a discarnate mind.
So strong is the evidence for the existence of abnormal powers and
superconscious knowledge that people like Professor Richet invent
" vibrations of reality " and Professor Driesch talks of an entelechy,
and, I think, it is Dr Broad who has taken refuge in postulating a
temporary association of fragments of mind—called mindkins
—
which for a period after death coalesce and preserve memory, and
act as if they were coherent and identifiable. These entities would
resemble the " shells " of Eastern and theosophical doctrine.
These learned men have been driven to find some explanation of
strange happenings ;
they cannot believe in immortality, or even
survival, and imagine a mere temporary and shadowy existence, and
a kind of tentacle or filament which survives the jelly-fish of the
body for a time. These varying theories seem to me to be every
whit as empirical and unsubstantiated as any theory of the soul and
its survival. Let us, however, provisionally give a lodging to the
vibrations of reality, the action of entelechy, or of the mindkin.
We should make these little strangers welcome ;
they are sympto-
matic of the strength of the evidence which has to be accounted for,
and are perhaps the signs of a desperate struggle, like that of a man
trying to close the door against a hurricane of wind.
It appears then that long patient work on precognition and
premonition is called for. A good deal has already been done but
there is much more waiting the investigator. Lately, with the
kind co-operation of Mr Dunne, author of that suggestive book
An Experiment with Time, an investigation of dream prognostication
has been made. The result of several hundred dreams recorded
immediately, and of course therefore before any possible fulfilment,
did not demonstrate that precognitive dreams are common. But
that is very different from saying that no precognitive dreams
occur ; on the contrary it has long been known that they do, only
not with the frequency which perhaps Mr Dunne fancied. I joined per-
sonally in the experiment, but was quite useless : this fact was of
interest only to me, because I happen to have had many precognitive
experiences through mind pictures and automatic writing. Dreams
are apparently not the mechanism which suits my superconscious
mind. As I have already said, the different mechanisms and
automatisms can all convey the same kinds of superconscious
knowledge, and it is probably a question of fitting the instrument
to the operator. Each golfer has his own special putter, without
which he is lost when he has landed his ball on the green ; each
132] Presidential Address 34]
writer his special peu and paper ; and so each superconscious part
of mind, or whatever force it is that crystallises superconscious
knowledge into conscious knowledge, has its favourite instrument.
You must lay the blame, if you are bored, on the Council who
appointed me, but perhaps, in order to justify my speaking to you
at all on these subjects, I might be allowed to give you my own
experience of the process of precognition, because, not being, as I
explained at the beginning, a psychologist or a metaphysician, my
hypothesis has been founded on what I felt was the process. Of
course I am well aware that this is a trick of the mind, but it may
perhaps be of some interest if, having experienced these strange
flashes of knowledge about the future, I try to describe the process
of their acquisition. I have had experiences by two mechanisms,
mind pictures and automatic writing.
I have lately been looking at the studies made by Dr Yaensch
into what are called eidetic images among children, and like Monsieur
Jourdain's discovery that he had been talking prose, I have found,
without any notion that such careful and extensive investigation
had been made into what I imagined was a rather rare faculty, that I
myself belonged to a common type of eidetic subject, the integrated
type. These grand words only mean that certain people and almost
all children form images of thought, and that apart from after
images and memory images which are constantly objective, objective
images of ideas are often seen, especially by children. I have seen
objective images once or twice only, but eidetic images within the
mind occur to me constantly. I know I have no right to use the
term eidetic images as Dr Yaensch is only examining those which are
seen objectively. But my mind pictures are, I am convinced, of the
same nature as true eidetic images. I may be sitting idle thinking of
nothing, when some vivid picture seeming utterly irrelevant will
suddenly flash upon my inner vision. As I have already said, for a
great part of my life I was quite unaware that these mind pictures
had any relation whatever to events, or even to thoughts. But I
discovered through one very startling consonance that they some-
times had such a relation, and I began to watch them. What is
more, I found that I could induce them, and that if I could succeed
in completely inhibiting conscious thought while directing the
picture-making faculty on to a particular question, I could obtain
a relevant symbolic picture. Now there is nothing very mysterious
about this : it is only like a waking dream whose direction has been
decreed. But it is, I think, interesting that in this way I have often
obtained information beyond the reach of my conscious mind, just
as can an automatist or a trance medium. So far this information,
when it had to do with the future, has not in my experience been
wrong, though no doubt this method is subject to incursions from
342 The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E. [part
the conscious part of mind, and therefore to error, like any other
impression. I am not speaking at the moment of the unpredictable
future, such as a sudden accident, but the future which might be
foretold by an intelligence which could avail itself of facts unknown
to the conscious mind.
All this, so it seems to me, can come about without the inter-
vention of any discarnate mind or spirit. But I do not see how it
can come about unless the mind of man has greater powers than
those of which it is normally conscious ;
normally I could not
possibly know the outcome say of a certain anxiety ;
super-
consciously I am apparently able to foretell it. I have had many
experiences of this kind, as have a great number of people. The
most interesting thing about them is perhaps that I can sometimes
induce them.
The knowledge of the real future which could not be deduced
from any mind, conscious or superconscious, is probably rarely shown
in eidetic images, partly because they are so often symbolic in
character, and I have not personally experienced more than the
picture of a future event which might be gleaned from the super-
consciousness of some other mind and could therefore possibly be
accounted for without involving the dreaded appearance of deter-
minism.
Then as to superconscious knowledge coming through automatic
writing the essential for me is to empty my mind of all thought
whatever, not an easy process for an automatist who remains
completely conscious the whole time, and it was only attained after
long practice and under training, as it seemed to me, from an
intelligence outside myself. I was taught to brush my mind as it
were, and given exercises or dodges to help the effort. Now, unless
I am out of practice, I can empty my mind in a moment. Then it
seems like an absolutely still pool of water. I wait, and into it
drop isolated words and sentences which often have no meaning at
all for me. The impression is irresistible that I am Ustening to
something which I can only hear, and still less understand, with
extreme difficulty. If it had not been that I often found I had taken
part in some cross-correspondence of which I knew absolutely
nothing, I should never have persevered. In the midst of these
sentences or communications have come precognitions. A paper on
one particular series, written by Mr Piddington, has been printed in
Proceedings. Whether or not any of them can be called precognition
of a future not in the content of any living mind is not relevant at
this moment, for I am merely trying to give an account of the
mechanism. The sense of an amalgam—to use my simile—between
what was dropping into the pool of my mind softly like snow, and
my own conscious thoughts, was almost physical, and it may have
132] Presidential Address 343
given me tlie idea that part of my mind was talking to another part.
I may say in passing that quite as strong as the sense of fusion
between two parts of one's mind is the impression of moving out
into another region with part of one's mind. This is also no doubt
a fantasy, but the symbol of a definite experience. I could draw a
map of many of these regions, the vision or sensation being almost
objective. iBut that some of these communications were gleaned
from intelligences outside my own consciousness I have no manner
of doubt any more than that the intermediary was part of my own
mind ; the only question left is, how much was picked up out of
other Uving minds, and how much from minds which know things
beyond the reach of incarnated intelligences. I am, as is obvious
from what I have already said, of opinion that the gathering of
impressions by the superconscious part of our minds has its counter-
part in the transmitting of impressions by minds or parts of minds,
which belong to another plane of being, and in most cases have once
been incarnate here. Both processes may be either conscious or
unconscious. Or it may be that the mind and bram are hke sifters
and prevent the flood of perceptions from overwhelming con-
sciousness. T n 14-
Before winding up I should like to summarise very briefly what
I have been trying to state.
We know that many human beings have mental powers which
extend beyond their senses and their consciousness.
Sometimes these powers seem to bring us tidings from another
fleld of existence. . .
Spirituahsts believe that such communications come from spirits.
We are all aware of the deceptions and confusions which obscure
this question. .
I have been attempting to show that some of these disappear it
the hypothesis that in all communications spirits take possession
of a living organism and express through it is replaced by the
hypothesis that we ourselves can not only ransack other living
minds, as is admitted by all who believe in telepathy, but can
sometimes penetrate another field of existence and gather informa-
tion. This hypothesis conforms to the beliefs of religion and the
intuitions of genius.
No evidence of the identity of the dead will carry _
mteflectual
conviction of survival because of the immense ramifications of
telepathic power which are now recognised or conjectured. I stress
the word intellectual because I am purposely leaving aside the
conviction borne in upon an individual that he or she has been m
contact with a personality whose idiosyncrasies and methods are
well known and are reproduced in the communication. It is not of
any special interest what I myself think about this, but in order to be
344 The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E. [part 132]
perfectly honest and to remove any possible misconception I should
hke to say that I believe communication with the dead is possible
and that it occurs constantly though not often consciously. The
hypothesis I have been making that part of our mind can come into
contact with another region should support the idea that we are not
bounded by our physical bodies, and can survive them, and that
perhaps the regions of which we become aware are those where we
meet the surviving personalities of the dead. But the personality
oi a being who is dead can only be demonstrated and carry convic-
tion to one who has known the personality in life. For the general,
a reasoned logical conviction is needed. This could be produced if
evidence is
_
accumulated of a region which is sufficiently like the
one we live in for us to recognise, and is yet so different that we have
to realise the probability of another field of existence. Time is
serial in our life ; it does not seem to be so in other forms of life.
The future can be recognised in the present ; our superconscious
powers bring us tidings of this in our real premonitions and fragments
of true knowledge.
The idea that part of our own minds can reach out to other regions
in no way controverts the possibility of inhabitants of another realm
of life—spirits—etherics—discarnates—call them what you will-
influencing human minds.
Interaction is a word which denotes what seems possible ; inter-
action directed from beings in this life as well as from beings in
another life.
I commend to the Society further studies in the unknown region
already entered by such men as Richet, Maeterlinck, Osty, Dunne.
It seems to me that it might be possible to direct certain experi-
ments with cards, not using numbers of people and not with a view
to detecting clairvoyance, like Miss Jephson's extremely interesting
experiments, but merely precognition. I have not thought out any
procedure and am merely hazarding suggestions. Also people
might be asked to note any impression of a future happening which
came to them in whatever form—record the impression and have
it witnessed, and on fulfilment send in a statement. It would be
interesting also to know how many real impressions were not
fulfilled—say after a year or two. One wishes to inculcate the habit
among people subject to such impressions of recording and witness-
ing. The research into this obscure question will be long and
arduous, but that should not and will not deter the Society for
Psychical Research.
AN EXPERIMENT IN " CLAIRVOYANCE " WITH
M. STEEAN OSSOWIECKI.
By Theodore Besterman.
During the course of a visit to Warsaw ia the spring of 1933, in
company with Dr Osty, I made the acquaintance of M_. Ossowiecki,
well known as an amateur clairvoyant who has obtamed striking
successes.! it was not at the time possible for me to arrange an
experiment with M. Ossowiecki, as he was busy with one prepared
by Dr Osty. M. Ossowiecki kindly promised, however, that he would
attempt to " read " the contents of a sealed envelope if I cared to
send him one on my return to England. Immediately on my return
to London I accordingly, on 17 May, sent M. Ossowiecki a sealed
envelope. Receiving no reply I caused inqmries to be made and
finally in July, I heard from M. Ossowiecki that the envelope I had
sent him had been regarded as suspicious by the censorship and
had been opened by them. M. Ossowiecki suggested that I should
prepare another envelope and send it to M. Gravier, the President
of the Polskie Towarzystwo Badan Psychicznych, before which he
would then carry out the experiment. This I did, despatching the
second sealed envelope on 11 July to Madame Wodzmska, for passing
on to M Gravier, as I did not know the latter's address. There the
matter rested so far as I knew until the end of September, when,
knowing that Lord Charles Hope was going to Warsaw, with Miss
A Reutiner and I^Ir John Evelyn, both Members of the Society 1
asked him to make an effort to get the experiment carried out. This
he accordingly did, with the kind help of M. Gravier. Actually,
however, as I afterwards learned, there had already been two pre-
liminary and fairly successful sittings.
But before deahng with these preliminary sittings, I will describe
the sealed packet, which, with its contents, was prepared at, and
despatched from, my desk in the Society's rooms. Figure 1 is a
photograph of the paper I had prepared. ^Vhen folded it measured
93 mm. by a trifle over 107 mm. It was placed m a reddish orange
" Ensign " light-tight envelope (that is, not transparent to white
light) measuring 94 mm. by 119 mm. This envelope was m turn
enclosed in a black "Ensign" light-tight envelope, measuring
106 mm. by 130 mm. This black envelope was finally enclosed m
1
See, for instance, the report of the Warsaw Congress of 1923 pp. 201 ff
.
;
Dr G. Geley, UEctophsynie ei la CUirvoyance (1924), pp. 29 ff. ;
Stefan Osso-
wiecki, Awiat rnego Ducha (1933).
346
346 M. Stefan Ossowiecki [part
a large Manilla envelope doubled in two and thus measuring 114 mm.
by 152 mm. Each of these envelopes was closed in a special way
and bore private and invisible marks. The outer doubled envelope
was m addition sealed with surgical tape arranged in a special way
and signed by me. This packet was then further enclosed in a stout
outer envelope and sent to Mme Wodzinska, who remitted it direct
to M. Gravier. A statement from her to that effect follows in
Appendix Ai. M. Gravier retained the packet in his possession
until the beginning of the sitting described below. A statement
from M. Gravier follows in Appendix A ii.
I will now give an account of the two preliminary sittings, in the
form of a statement by M. Gravier, who writes :
After receiving your sealed envelope the contents of which were
to be detected by M. Ossowiecki, he and I had two sittings on 8 and
9 August 1933.
During these meetings the following was said.
On 8 August M. 0. : Sees Mr Besterman,—he sees that it is
between 6 and 8 o'clock in the evening and that Mr Besterman cuts
a picture from an illustrated English paper. Picture of the size of
6x7 centimetres. He sees four envelopes one in the other.
This meeting took place in my home.
The following day, 9 August, meeting at M. O.'s, who says :
It is not an illustration cut from a paper.
It is a drawing made on a big piece of paper, this drawing is
5x6 centimetres.
There are three envelopes—one exterior, the next black, the third
coloured,—it is neither yellow, nor blue, nor red, I think that it is
rose, but I do not see very well.
Besides the drawing there is something written :
It represents something like a goblet, closed with a cork, and there
IS something written, not on the goblet, but around it—I see a W—
I see a capital I,—I also see an S and something red and something
blue. That makes me confuse it with the letters.
Since then M. 0. was unwilUng to give any further sitting, saying
that he had thought it over and could not agree to continue if the
envelope was not afterwards opened before him.
When Mile Reutiner, Lord Charles Hope and Mr Evelyn came we
decided that they would take the responsibility of opening the
envelope on your behalf and that it should be opened immediately
after [the sitting].
You know the rest.
—
[Literal translation.]
[Signed] A. Gravieb.
132] An Experiment in " Clairvoyance
" 347
On 29 September 1933 M. Ossowiecki invited a number of friends
to his flat for tlie purpose of witnessing bis attempt to read " the
contents of tbe envelope. Lord Charles Hope writes :
" Soon after
M. Gravier's arrival at M. Ossowiecki's flat be banded tbe envelope
over to me and I kept it in my pocket. I watcbed tbe envelope tbe
whole time during tbe experiment and myself opened it at tbe
finish of M. Ossowiecki's '
reading '
of the contents. The lighting
of the room during tbe '
reading '
was dim, the only light actually
in tbe room being from two large candles near the medium, and
electric light in the adjoining room."
During the course of tbe experiment M. Gravier made a record,
in French, of what was said and done by M. Ossowiecki. I now give
a literal translation of this record, only inserting inverted commas
where necessary and reference figures within square brackets :
Warsaw, 29 September 1933.
Sitting at M. Ossowiecki s
.
Lord Charles Hope hands to Mr 0. a letter sent to M. Gravier
from London by Mr Besterman, to be " read " by M. 0.
Numerous persons [present]—we begin at 6 o'clock in the after-
noon.
Tbe piano is played :
[I] 0. says :
" I am already in
England—in London—[2] it is a
very big bouse, [3] in the centre
of L. —Not altogether in the cen-
tre, but on the right side—[4] a
grey bouse, [5] three or four
floors. [6] He lives at tbe bot-
tom. [7] I see Mr Besterman
dressed in black.
[8] In tbe next room (d cdte) a
gentleman in black—he goes
away.
[9] A lady dressed in a white
sweater returns into the room.
[10] There are a lot of books
about in tbe room.
[II] He approaches tbe table
—not that in bis room—but in
tbe room adjoining. [12] It is a
little salon. —
•
[Notes by Tb. B.]
[I] Yes, but M. Ossowiecki
knows that tbe Society's Rooms
are in London. [2] Moderately
large. [3] In the West Central
District. [4] No, tbe house is in
brick and stucco. [5] It has a
basement and four floors. [6] I
do not live at tbe S.P.R. [7] No.
[8] Possibly, as tbe adjoining
room is open to members.
[9] Possibly, see [8].
[10] Yes, it is part of the
Library.
[II] Yes, but in my own room,
not that adjoining, [12] which is
also part of the Library.
348 M. Stefan Ossowiecki [part
[13] I see a black envelope,
[14] and some black paper on the
table.
[15] Ditto a red envelope—no,
rose (rosatre).
[16] He intends to cut oixt a
drawing from one of the English
papers—something like an ad-
vertisement.
[17] It was between 4 and 5
o'clock.
[18] I see him again, he had
changed his mind.
[19] He takes a piece of white
paper and cuts it—[20] he has
pencils of three colours, blue, red,
black. [21] He takes the black
pencil, [22] it is a drawing.
He draws—[23] and then he
writes [24] in English,—unfor-
tunately I do not know the lan-
guage. I see some letters—[25]
it is just 4 o'clock. [26] He is
now alone.
[27] In the second room there
is this gentleman and this lady.
What is he drawing ?
Give me the pencil."
Ossowiecki takes the pencil.
He draws. Ossowiecki draws a
rectangle—above it a small rect-
angle. [Here follows a sketch by
M. Gravier of M. Ossowiecki 's
drawing ; this drawing is repro-
duced as figure 2. In his sketch
M. Gravier indicates that M.
Ossowiecki said, in regard to the
lines at each side of the lower
[13] Yes. [14] No.
[15] Yes, but actually a red-
dish orange. The outer envelope
sent to M. Ossowiecki on 17 May
similarly contained black and
orange envelopes ; it must be
assumed that this was known to
M. Ossowiecki.
[16] No ; but the envelope
mentioned in [15] contained an
illustrated advertisement cut
from a newspaper. This no
doubt was also known to M.
Ossowiecki.
[17] Yes.
[18] No.
[19] No. [20] Yes, though the
drawing was done in ink, not in
pencil. [21] See [20]. [22] Yes.
[23] Yes. [24] Yes. [25] It
was about 4.30. [26] I was alone
throughout.
[27] See [8] and [9].
132] An Experiment in " Clairvoyance
'
349
rectangle, [28] " There is some-
tting written," and of the single
line lower down and to the left,
[29]
" Something red."]
" He has drawn—[30] he puts
into a yellow red (orange) ^ en-
velope—[31] he gums [it]—
[32] He puts into a black en-
velope
[33] the gentleman comes into
the room.
[34] He gums the black en-
velope all round.
[35] The drawing is a bottle
—
no—it is like that. [Here M.
Gravier gives a sketch of M.
Ossowiecki's figure 2 (our figure
3), indicating that of the lower
left Une M. Ossowiecki said, [36]
" A rose line."]
I see—[37] there are two
words—[38] each letter is big
and each letter is by itself—[24]
it is Enghsh, there is [39] (on the
left) S W A (each letter written
apart) and also a fourth letter
which I do not understand—an
N, but I am not sure.
[40] Then there is (on the
right) I N
[28] Yes. [29] No, this line is
blue, it is the opposite one which
is red.
[30] Yes, but see [15]. [31]
Yes, though actually I used
paste.
[32] Yes.
[33] No.
^
[34] No, only at both ends.
[35] Yes. [36] No ;
see [29].
[.37] Yes. [38] Yes. [39] Yes ;
all four letters are correct and in
the right order.
[40] Yes ; both letters are cor-
rect and in the right order,
though the word is incomplete.
No, the drawing is a little bit
different." (0. again begins to
draw.) [Here M. Gravier gives
a sketch of M. Ossowiecki's
(final) figure 3 (our figure 4),
marking the line in the left hand
bottom corner A—B].
" Yes, that's right—I see very
well now—table, office, envelope,
black, rose." (It is 6.25).
1 [Lord Charles Hope writes :
" When medium was trying to describe the
colour of the innermost envelope he had suggested '
rosatre ' when M. Gravier
(the medium apparently not being satisfied with what he had himself said)
suggested '
orange '. The medium seemed to accept this suggestion but did
not repeat the word '
orange ' ".]
350 M. Stefan Ossoioiecki
[41] There is something red at [41] No; see [29].
A.B.—I cannot understand.
I have already finished
"
—
6.26.
•
It was after this that Lord Charles Hope opened the envelopes,
taking care of course not to destroy the sealing of the outer and
inner envelopes. The above account was signed by M. A. Gravier,
Miss Alice Reutiner, Lord Charles M. Hope, Mr John Evelyn, Prince
J. Woroniecki, and seven others.
On 3 October 1933 Lord Charles Hope handed to me, in London,
the original of the above account, M. Ossowiecki's drawings, and
the opened envelopes. I minutely examined the envelopes and
found that, with the exception of considerable wear and tear on the
outer envelope, they were all intact. The private marks which I
had made and which would have been inevitably disturbed on any
attempt to open the envelopes, were all in order. ^ I have no hesita-
tion in saying that none of the three envelopes was opened. I am
also satisfied that no effort was made, an effort which would not in
any case have been successful (because, among other reasons, of the
special folding of the paper), to render the contents transparent by
chemical means. The same is true of X-ray and similar methods.
It will thus be seen that M. Ossowiecki's clairvoyant reading (as it
may for convenience be called, thoiigh other supernormal theories
are not excluded) was almost completely successful. It would of
course have been more satisfactory if the envelope " read " had been
the one I had with me in Warsaw, or, failing that, the first packet
I sent. Still, the main point is clearly that the packet should not
have been tampered with ; and of that I am satisfied. Cordial
thanks are due not only to M. Ossowiecki himself for his brilliant
performance, but also to M. Gravier and to Mme Wodzinska for
their invaluable help.
A point of theoretical interest is this : the subject of the test
was deliberately of such a kind {e.g. " Swan ") as to be capable of
being symbolically " perceived " ; also the drawing was so dis-
posed that the folding of the paper completely destroyed the form
of the bottle and of one word, leaving the other word intact. None
of these things affected M. Ossowiecki's " reading," which is almost
an enlarged facsimile, except that in his second drawing there are
lines that might be taken to indicate the folding.
1 For obvious reasons I do not describe these private marks ;
they are known
to Mr and Mrs Salter and to Lord Charles Hope.
132] An Experim,ent in " Clairvoyance
"
351
APPENDIX A.
Statements.
In accordance with, your wish I certify having received your sealed
envelope and having remitted it intact to M. A. Gravier.
[Signed] Marie Wodzinska.
[10 October 1933.]
ii.
The envelope was preserved intact by me until the sitting held
in the presence of Lord Charles Hope, Mr Evelyn and Mile Reutiner.
[Signed] A. Gravier.
10 October 1933.
I
j
I
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESBARGB.
PE0FES30R Henry Sidqwick, - 1882-84.
Professor Balfour Stewart,
F R S.,
1885-87.
Professor Henry Sidqwick, - 1888-92.
The Earl of Balfour, K.G.,
O.M., F.R.S., - - - - 1893.
Professor William James, - - 1894-9o.
SIR William Crookks,0.11.,F.R.S., 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. MYERS,- - - 1900.
SIR Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., - I90i-0d.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - - 1905.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, - l90b-07.
Mrs Henry Sidgwiok, - - • 1908-09.
H. Arthur Smith, - - • - 1910.
ANDREW Lang, 1911-
Rt Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., ... - 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson. -
Phokessou F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc,
Professor Gilbert Murray,
LL.D., Litt.D.,
L. P. JACKS, LL.D., D.D.,
Lord Rayleiqh, O.M., F.R.S., -
Professor W. McDouqall, F.R.S.,
T. W. Mitchell, M.D., -
Camilie Flammarion, -
J. G. Piddinqton. •
Professor BUns Driesch, pi
M.U., LL.D ,
- -
-
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
W. Franklin Prinib, Ph.D.,
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt.,
LL.D.
SiK Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
.D,,
J
1913.
1914.
191.5-16.
1917-18.
1919.
1920- 21.
1922.
1923.
1921-25.
1926-27.
1928-20.
11)30-31.
1932.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1933.
PRESIDENT.
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.
vice-presidents.
The Earl of Balfour, V.L'.,
LL.D.
George B. Dorr.
Professor Hans Driesch, Ph.D.,
M.D., LL.D.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
COUNCIL
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. PiDDlNGTON.
Professor Y. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc,
F.B.A.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.E.S.
The Earl of Balfour, P.O., LL.D.
Sir Krnest Bennett, M.P.
W. R. BousFiELD, K.C., F.R.S.
Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.
William Brown, M.D., D.Sc.
W. Whately Carington.
Professor E. R. Dodds.
J. Arthur Hill.
Lord Charles Hope.
Professor Julian S. Huxley.
Miss Ina Jephson.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
G. W. Lambert.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.BE.
Professor W. McDougall, F.R.S.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
W. H. Salter.
Mrs W. H. Salter.
H. F. Saltmarsh.
Professor F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
S. G. SOAL.
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Miss Nea Walker.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
ACTING EON. TREASURER.
W. H. Salter, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
RON. SECRETARY.
W. H. Salter, The Grown House, Newport, Essex.
EON. EDITOR.
Mrs W. H. Salter, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
INVESTIGATION OFFICER.
Theodore Besterman, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
SECRETARY.
Miss I. Newton, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
AGENTS FOR AMERICA.
The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
354 Members and Associates [part
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
1933.
President—The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.
Vice-Presidents.
The Eight Hon. the Earl of Balfour, P.O., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking,
Surrey.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Hans Driesch, Ph.D., M.D., LL.D., Zollnerstrasse 1, Leipzig,
Germany.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, nr Salisbury.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
J. G. Piddington, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Professor F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, F.B.A., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Sydney C. Scott, 92 Westbourne Terrace, London, W. 2. '
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Honorary Members.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de Physique
Generale, rue Cuvier 12, Paris, France.
Miss Alice Johnson, 1 Millington Road, Cambridge.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, rue Gachard 13, Ixelles, Brussels,
Belgium.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
Corresponding Members.
Professor Henri Bergson, Bd de Beau Sejour 47, Paris, France.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York, U.S.A.
Dr Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W. 30, Germany.
Professor Dr Freud, Berggasse 19, Vienna, Austria.
Professor Pierre Janet, rue de Varenne 54, Paris, France.
Dr C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E. Zurich, Switzerland.
Count Carl von Klinckowstroem, Agnesstrasse 44/°, Munich, Germany.
132] Members and Associates 355
Maurice Maeterlinck, Villa des Abeilles, Nice, France.
Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Nauklerstrasse 23, Tubingen, Germany.
Dr Eugene Osty, Avenue Niel 89, Paris, France.
Dr Walter F. Prince, 719 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Charles Richet, rue de I'Universite 15, Paris, France.
Dr Rudolf Tischner, Ditlindenstrasse 18, Munich, Germany.
Carl Vett, 59 Stockholmsgade, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Honorary Associates.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 63 Newbridge Road, Bath.
Gow, David, 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Hill, J. Arthur, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., Dyke End, Rotherfield, Sussex.
Sage, Prof. Charles M., rue de Coulmiers 33, Paris XIV, France.
Stawell, Miss F. Melian, Littledore, 64 Sandfield Road, Headington,
Oxon.
Tanagra, Dr A., Odos Aristotelous 53, Athens, Greece.
Wereide, Dr Th., The University, Oslo, Norway.
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
*Adams, B. A., Aldwick, Queen's Road, Hampton Hill, Middlesex.
*Adlercron, Mrs Rodolph, Culverthorpe Hall, Grantham.
*Albemarle, Countess of, Quidenham, Norwich.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., 24 Brunswick Road, Withington, Manchester.
Allan, Miss J., Invergloy House, Invergloy, Inverness-shire.
*Allen, Professor H. J., c/o The National Bank of India, 26 Bishopsgate,
London, E.C. 2.
*Allison, Mrs E. W., The Beverley, 125 East 50th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
*Alvarez, Dr Juan, 25 de Diciembre, 804, Rosario, Argentina.
*Anderson, Lady, Ballydavid, Woodstown, Waterford, I.F.S.
Anderson, Mrs Henry C, 20 Hermitage Drive, Edinburgh.
*Andreae, Frau Edith, Cronbergerstrasse 7-9, Berlin-Griinewald,
Germany.
Andrews, Dr Marion B., 73 Shrubbery Avenue, Worcester.
Anstey, Brigadier E. C, R.A., 14 Lytton Road, Quetta, Baluchistan,
India.
*Archer-Hind, Mrs, Little Newnham, Cambridge.
*Ardron, G. H., c/o Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Co., 9 Gracechurch
Street, London, E.C. 3.
Armstrong, Charles W., Mensajeros, Calle Fontanella, 10 y Estruch
38, Barcelona, Spain.
*Arnold-Forster, Mrs H. C, Orchards, Dover Park Drive, Roehampton,
London, S.W. 15.
*Ashby, Mrs Thomas, 11 Chandos Court, Caxton Street, London, S.W. 1.
356 Members and Associates [part
*Assheton-Sniith, Lady, 30 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
*Auden, Harold A., The Research Institute, Great Burgh, Epsom,
Surrey.
Austen, H. W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, London, W. 5.
Bacon, Mrs Sewell, Gate House, Northwood, Middlesex.
Baggally, Mrs W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
*Baker, Miss Mabel, P.O., All Saints, Idutywa, CP., S. Africa.
*Baldwin, Mrs, 1 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
^Balfour, Right Hon. the Earl of, P.C., LL.D., Fishers Hill, Woking,
Surrey.
*Balfour, Miss, Whittingehame, Haddington. . ,,
*Balfour, Dr Margaret L, 14 Sylvan Road, London, S.E. 19. ,
; ;
./u,:)
*Balfour, The Lady Ruth, Balbirnie, Markinch, Fife. ; icj:^^
*Ball, Mrs J. H., 11 Nevill Park, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Barkworth, Mrs, Empress Club, 35 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Barlow, Fred, Drakeford, Pool Head Lane, Wood End, Tanworth-in-
Arden.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Barrow, J. R., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street, London,
S.W.I.
*Batchelor, E., 3 Glyn Mansions, London, W. 14.
*Bax, Clifford, G. 2, The Albany, London, W. 1.
*Beadon, Mrs, 11 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton. j .
*Beaty, Amos L., 30 Sutton Place, New York City, U.S.A.
*Behrens, Major Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
*Bell, Mrs A. H., Backwoods, Lindfield, Sussex.
*Benedict, Professor H. Y., 216 West 27th Street, Austin, Texas, U.S.A.
Bennett, Colin N., 21 Morrab Place, Penzance, Cornwall.
*Bennett, Sir Ernest, M.P., 12 Prince Arthur Road, London, N.W. 3.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., 32 Wood Lane, London, N. 6.
*Bentley, W. P., 4214 Swiss Avenue, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
*Beresford-Peirse, Lieut.-Col. N., D.S.O., R.A., Army and Navy Club,
St. James's Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Berry, Lady Dickinson, M.D., Bramblebury, Dunsmore, nr Wendover,
Bucks.
*Besterman, Theodore, 47 Great Ormond Street, London, W.C. 1.
*Besterman, Mrs Theodore, 47 Great Ormond Street, London, W.C. 1.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
*Blennerhassett, Mrs Richard, 52 Hans Place, London, S.W. 1.
Bligh, Stanley M., 19 Clareville Grove, London, S.W. 7.
Bois, H. G., Billesley Manor, Alcester, Warwickshire.
*Bolton, Edward J., Rossett Hall, nr Wrexham.
*Bond, F. Bligh, 15 Lexington Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Bond, Mrs W. C, Shaiesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 38 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
*Bousfield, W. R., K.C., F.R.S., St Swithins, Northwood, Middlesex.
Bouwens, B. G., Old Manor House, Littleton, Sheppert on, Middlesex.
132] Members and Associates 357
*Bovill, Mrs Karslake, 57 Marloes Road, London, W. 8.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, Hotel Richmond, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Barlham House, Norwich.
Boxer, Miss Cecile F., Firwood, Alum Chine, Bournemouth.
*Bracht, Federico, Cangallo 466, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 36 Fenchurch Street, Loudon, E.C. 3.
*Bret, Dr P. T., 23 Avenida C'inco de Outubro, Lisbon, Portugal.
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, London, W. 5.
*Brinton, R. S., Croft House, Kidderminster.
Bristowe, The Hon. L. S., Mahogany Hall, Chipperfield, Herts.
*Broad, C. D., Litt.D., Trinity College, Cambridge.
*Broch, Dr Leon, 76 Cuba Street, Habana, Cuba.
*Brown, B. H. Inness, 120 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Brown, Charles, M.B., Tinto Bank, Kirkcaldy.
*Brown, William, M.A., M.D., D.Sc, F.R.C.P., 88 Harley Street,
London, W. 1.
*Browne, 0. H., Fort House, Eastern Parade, Southsea, Hants.
*Bruck, Dr Carl, Prenzlauer Allee 25, Berlin N.O. 55, Germany.
*Bulford, Staveley, 20 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W. L
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,
Canada.
*Bulley, Mrs Arthur, Ness, Neston, Wirral, Cheshire.
Burnham, Mrs.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Burrard, Mrs Charles, c/o Lloyds Bank, 16 Brompton Road, London,
S.W. 1.
*Burt, Mrs William G., 1501 Asbury Avenue, Evanston, 111., U.S.A.
Burton, Mrs Harry, 25 via dei Bardi, Florence, Italy.
*Bury, Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Bury, Mrs Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Butler, Mrs Charles, Evendale, Falmouth, Cornwall.
*Butt, Lady, c/o Midland Bank, Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., 9 Huskisson Street, Liverjaool.
Cairns, Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
*Campbell, Mrs, Arduaine, Lochgilphead.
Campbell, Colin E., 35 Ebury Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Campbell, Mrs E. Kenneth, Millfield, Wittersham, Kent.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., Heatherdene, Fairwarp, nr Uckfield, Sussex.
*Campbell-Lang, Miss, Craig Lora, Connel, Argyllshire.
Candler, H. A. W., 43 Gondar Gardens, London, N.W. 6.
Candler, Miss M. I., Shadipore, Aldeburgh, Suffolk.
*Cannon, Alexander, K.C.A., M.D., Ph.D., etc., L.C.C. Mental Hospital
Service, Colney Hatch, London, N. 11.
*Carden, W. A., M.R.C.S., Korea, Trappes Street, Worcester, CP.,
S. Africa.
*Carington, W. Whately, Calandstraat 64, Rotterdam, Holland.
*Carpenter, Mrs, Withleigh, West Heath Road, London, N.W. 3.
Carrington, Hereward, Ph.D., 20 West 58th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Carruthers, Miss Helen, 10 King's Bench Walk, London, E.C. 4.
358 Members and Associates [part
*Carter, Mrs H. A., c/o Lloyds Bank, 6 Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Carthew, Lieut. -Colonel T., D.S.O., 2 Mitre Court Buildings, London,
E.G. 4.
Case, Miss A. J., Batheaston Villa, Bath, Somerset.
*Cave, Charles J. P., Stoner Hill, Petersfield, Hants.
^Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
*Champion de Crespigny, Mrs Philip, Artillery Mansions, London, S.W.l
.
*Chant, Stephen, Spring Cottage, Sanderstead, Surrey.
*Chapman, C. F., Fairlawn, Clifi Road, Sandown, LW.
*Chattock, Arthur P., D.Sc, F.R.S., 5 Windsor Terrace, Clifton,
Bristol.
*Cheatham, Rev. Thaddeus A., Pinehurst, North Carolina, U.S.A.
Chitty, Hubert, M.S., F.R.C.S., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton, Bristol.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
Clark, Rev. F. H. H., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, The Ship Hotel, Crediton, Devon.
Clarkson, Mrs St John, 27 Ovington Street, London, S.W. 3.
Clay, The Hon. Mrs, 11 Tite Street, London, S.W. 3.
*Clements, Mrs P. H., 26 St Andrews Road, Earlsdon, Coventry.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 206 The Shawmut, 2200 Nineteenth Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Clwyd, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
*Cochrane-Baillie, Captain the Hon. Victor A., 29 Chesham Street,
London, S.W. 1.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
*Collins, George E., 4 Hawthorn Avenue, Wilmslow, Manchester.
Collins, Miss M. ,
I
'
*Collins, Seward, 375 Park Avenue, New York City, U.S.A. .
"] .
*Constable, F. C, Grenville, Lansdown, Bath. '
'
Conway, Lady, 47 Romney Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Conybeare, Mrs F. C, United Berkeley Club, 247 Knightsbridge,
London, S.W. 1.
*Cooke, P. A., 7 Foulser Road, London, S.W. 17. '
'
Cooper, Rev. Canon F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Mrs P. H., 293 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
Cornford, Rev. Bruce, 43 Havelock Road, Portsmouth.
Cornish, J. Easton, Cutley House, Mustapha Pasha, Alexandria,
Egypt.
*Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, London, W. 8.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Minister of State, 59 Koninginnegracht,
The Hague, Holland.
*Cox, Lady, Lazytown Cottage, Fawley, Southampton.
Coxe, Henry R. H., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Craig, Mrs John Dickey, Bankers Trust Co., 501 Fifth Avenue, New
York City, U.S.A.
*Crandon, L. R. G., M.D., 366 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Critchley, Macdonald, M.D., F.R.C.P., 137 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
*Crosfield, Miss M. C, Greensand, 78 Doods Road, Reigate, Surrey.
132] Members and Associates 359
*Crunden, Mrs W. M., c/o Crunden & Martin Mfg. Co., St Louis,
Mo., U.S.A.
*Crunden, Miss Edwina, c/o Crunden & Martin Mfg. Co., St Louis,
Mo., U.S.A.
*Currie, Lady, Upham House, Aldbourne, Wilts.
*Currie, Mrs Algernon, c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W. L
Daniell, Mrs Averell.
D'Arcy, Kev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
^Davidson, Miss A. M. Campbell, Villa Mont Jean, Cavalaire (Var),
France.
*Davies, Benjamin, Ty Tringad, Penparke, Aberystwyth, Cardiganshire.
*Davies, Powys, 9 Lansdowne Road, Bedford.
Davys, Lieut.-Colonel G. L, O.B.B., LM.S., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54
Parliament Street, London, S.W. 1.
Day, Miss Mabel K., 15 Elgin Court, London, W. 9.
Dearmer, Rev. Dr Percy, 4 Little Cloisters, Westminster Abbey,
London, S.W. 1.
*de Gernon, Mrs, 16 Cheniston Gardens, London, W. 8.
*de Janasz, Robert, 40 Ennismore Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
De Jong. Dr K. H. B., Beeklaar, 356, The Hague, Holland.
*De Koven, Mrs Reginald, 1025 Park Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Deland, Mrs Lorin F., Kennebunkport, Maine, U.S.A.
*de Lara, Mdme A. S., 5 Hook Heath, Woking, Surrey.
de Trafford, Mrs Galfrid.
*de Vesme, C. B., 3 rue Lacretelle Prolongee, Paris XV, France.
*Dewar, Lady, Brookhill House, Cowfold, Sussex.
*Dewey, Rev. Sir Stanley D., Bart., Peak House, Sidmouth, Devon.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, Arlena Towers, Ramsey, N.J., U.S.A.
*de Zoete, Miss Beryl, 43 Russell Square, London, W.C. 1.
*de Zoysa Wickramasalne, G. A.
*Dick, Lieut.-Colonel Maxwell, M.B., B.S., LL.B., 24 Riverview
Gardens, London, S.W. 13.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
*Dickson, Mrs B. W. A., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
*Dingwall, E. J., D.Sc, 14 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
*Dixon, Edward T.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
*Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park Terrace,
Hillhead, Glasgow.
*Dodds, Professor E. R., 6 Sir Harry's Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Donne, Mrs, c/o Messrs Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London, S.W. 1.
*Dowdall, Hon. Mrs, Melfort Cottage, Boar's Hill, Oxford.
Drew, Ringrose C, Kota Bharu, Kelantan, via Penang, Federated
Malay States.
Driesch, Professor Dr Hans, Zollnerstrasse 1, Leipzig, Germany.
^Duckworth, Mrs Arthur, 43 Catherine Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Due-Petersen, Jens, Aabylille, Aabyhof, Denmark.
*Duff, J. R. K., 100 Sunningfields, London, N.W. 4.
*Dundas, Mrs. R. W., 30 Erta Canina, Florence, Italy.
360 Members and Associates [part
Dunne, D. P., 137 Victoria Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Dupre, Pierre V. C. W., The Firs, Spaniards Road, Hampstead Heath,
London, N.W. 3.
*Duveen, Mrs Henry, 5 Stanhope Place, London, W. 2.
*Earl, Dr C. J. C, Caterham Mental Hospital, Caterham, Surrey.
*Earle, Arthur B., Puddington, Wirral, Cheshire.
*Eason, Mrs Wellstood-, 163 Wimbledon Park Road, London, S.W. 18.
*Bckstein, Lady, 18 Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Edie, H. S. Ker, Longmead, Swaythling Lawn, Southampton.
*Edwards, Francis H., 3b Fulwood Park, Liverpool.
*Elder, Frederick, 21 Essex Villas, London, W. 8.
Elliot, Mrs Gilbert, 10 Regent's Park Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
*Elliott, Warren, 48 Basing Hill, London, N.W. 11.
*Enthoven, Mrs F. V., 44 Carlton Hill, London, N.W. 8.
*Evans. Miss Joan, 9 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W. 11.
*Evans, S. I. J., 3 Chancery Lane, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.L
*Evelyn, C. J. A., Wotton House, Dorking, Surrey.
*Ezra, Alwyn, 143 Esplanade Road, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Faustinus, F., Sondre Fasanvej 97", Valby, Copenhagen, Denmark.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5n Montagu Mansions, London, W. 1.
Felkin, Mrs, 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
*Fermor-Hesketh, Sir Thomas, Bart., Easton Neston, Towcester,
Northamptonshire
.
*Findlater, J. W., Aydon, Cutenhoe Road, Luton, Beds.
*Fisk, George W., Laxfield, Woodlands Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
*Fitch, Hugh B., 31 Campden Grove, London, W. 8.
*Flagg, Don Perley, M.D., 3102 La Salle Avenue, Los Angeles, Cal,U.S.A.
*Fleetwood-Hesketh, Major C. H., Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham,
Rutlandshire.
*Fleming, Miss A. E., 3 Crossfield Road, London, N.W. 3.
*Fletcher, A. B. W., Heatherdene, Jennings Road, St Albans.
Flugel, J. C, 11 Albert Road, London, N.W. 1.
Forman, Josef.
*Foot, Miss Katharine, 31 Brookfield Mansions, London, N. 6.
*Foy, H. W., Caixa 3005, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
*Francis, Mrs Francis.
*Fraser-Harris, Professor D. F., M.D., D.Sc, The Athenaeum Club, Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Fraser-Harris, Mrs D. F., Grove Park Lodge (3), London, W. 4.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Freeman, Rev. Canon, Bentley, Clifton Hill, Bristol.
*Frith, Mrs W., Rutherglen, Clarendon Road, Watford, Herts.
*Fry, Miss Agnes, Kilve Court, Bridgwater, Somerset.
Gantz, Mrs W. L., 10 Bywater Road, London, S.W. 3.
*Gatty, Oliver, 6 Lowndes Square, London, S.W. 1.
Gay, The Hon. Mrs C. H., Higham Hall, nr Rochester, Kent.
Gellert, J. W., 38-40 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
*Gibbes, Miss E. B., 25 Jubilee Place, London, S.W. 3.
*Giglio, E., 21 Mincing Lane, London, E.C. 3.
*Giles, B. v., Stinchcombe Hill House, Dursley, Glos.
132] Members and Associates 361
Giles, Mrs, 19 Highfield Road, Bdgbaston, Birmingham.
Gilson, R. Gary, Quilt ers. West Chiltington Common, by Pulborough,
Sussex.
*Glardon, Rev. Roger, 17 Avenue Druey, Lausanne, Switzerland.
Glasson, J. W., I.C.S., Glanusk, Soy, Kenya Colony.
*Godsal, W. C, Haines Hill, Twyford, Berks.
*Goldney, Mrs K. M., c/o Lloyds Bank, 6 Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs Beni de, Lane End, Burclietts Green, Berks.
Gooch, Dr G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W. 8.
*Goodden, Mrs Robert, 5 Kingsgate Street, Winchester.
*Goossens, Mrs F. W., 2069 St Luke Street, Montreal, Canada.
Gough, A. B., Ph.D., Red Gables, Woodland Rise, Sevenoaks, Kent.
*Grant, Malcolm.
*Grant-Suttie, Major H. P., A.G. 6, War Office, London.
*Green, Lady, Gotwick Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Green, Mrs Alan B., Acton Castle, Marazion, Cornwall.
*Greenwood, L. H. G., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
'
Grew, J. C, Dept. of State, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Griffith, Mrs W. S. A., 19 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
Grignon, Miss A. E., 41 Filton Avenue, Horfield, Bristol.
*Grisman, Instructor-Commander J. R., R.N., Selhurst, Gordon Road,
Camberley, Surrey.
*Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs Norman, 2 Upper Grosvenor Street, London, W. 1.
I
Grottendieck, W. G., rue de I'lntendant 193, Brussels-Molenbeck,
Belgium.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., 22 Park Lane, Southwold, Suffolk.
*Grundy, Professor W. W., Lerryn, Rhiwbina, nr Cardiff.
*Gunston, Mrs Derrick.
*Gurdon, John, c/o Midland Bank Ltd., 20 Eastcheap, London, E.C. 3.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, 12 Duff Street, Calcutta, India.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
*Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, 25 St Edmund's Terrace,
London, N.W. 8.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland, Oregon,
U.S.A.
*Handley-Seymour, Major J. B., 1 Wadham Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
*Hannen, Mrs B., Great Surries, East Grinstead, Sussex.
*Hare, Dr A. W., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
*Hargreaves, J. N. D., 78 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Harriman, T. G., M.D., 3768 American Avenue, Long Beach, Cal., U.S.A.
*Harrington, E. J., Greensand, Heath Road, Petersfield, Hants.
! Harris, Alan C, c/o Messrs Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place Vendome,
Paris, France.
[
Harris, Mrs W. F., The Willows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
Harrison, William, Shots Mead, Sandlands Grove, Walton-on-the-
i
Hill.
Hart, Mrs H. H., c/o Lloyds Bank Ltd., Cox's & King's Branch,
Bombay, India.
*Hart, Hornell, Ph.D., Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa., U.S.A.
362 Members and Associates [part
*Haslam, Oliver H., Cairngill, nr Dalbeattie, Kirkcudbriglitsliire.
*Hawkins, J. Gordon, 915 Franklin Street, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
*Hayes, Rev. J. W., Towerville, The Crescent, Loughton, Essex.
*Head, Mrs Geoffrey, 24 Charles Street, London, W. 1.
*Heard, H. F. Gerald, 28 Portman Court, London, W. 1.
Heaton, Guy, 51 Westcliff Road, Bournemouth.
Hemenway, Mrs Augustus, Reidville, Mass., U.S.A.
*Henderson, Miss Hester M., M.B., 25 Ferndale, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Henderson, J. J., Bogstone Farm, Beith, Ayrshire.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 49 Grosvenor Street,
London, W. 1.
Henrici, Max, Hildesheim, Box 187, Coraopolis, Pa., U.S.A.
*Herbert, Benson, Dunelm, Lostock Park, Bolton, Lanes.
*Herbert, C. V. C, 3 King's Mansions, Lawrence Street, London, S.W. 3.
*Herrmann, Oscar, c/o American Express Co., rue Scribe, Paris, France.
*Hettiuger, John, Broseley, 63 Drewstead Road, London, S.W. 16.
*Hichens, Mrs W. Lionel, North Aston Hall, Oxfordshire.
Hildyard, P. W., 14 Lambridge, Bath.
*Hill, Miss Marianne, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford, Yorks.
Hoare, Fred H., 37 Fleet Street, London, E.C. 4.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, The University of the Witwatersrand,
Johannesburg, S. Africa.
Holder, Henry L., Ferndene, Wheatlands Road, Harrogate.
*Holdsworth, H. H., Amberd, Blenheim Road, Wakefield, Yorks.
*Hole, Rev. Donald, St James's Lodge, London, S.W. 6.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1. .
*Hollick, Captain A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
*Hollick, Mrs A. J., Kelsall Lodge, Sunninghill, Ascot, Berks.
Hollins, Mrs A. E., Dunsfold Rectory, Godalming, Surrey.
Home, Miss Georgina, St Peter's Vicarage, Elgin Avenue, London, W.9.
Home, Miss Mary M.
Hookham, Philip, Shottery Cottage, Shottery, Stratford-on-Avon.
*Hope, Lord Charles M., Swinley Hurst, Ascot, Berks.
Hopkinson, Mrs, Ellerslie, Adams Road, Cambridge.
*Hoppe-Moser, Dr Fanny, Franz Josefstr. 19, Munich, Bavaria.
*Hoseason, A. G., The Bungalow, Tanworth-in-Arden, nr Birmingham.
Hotblack, Frank A., Great Frenches Park, Crawley Down, Sussex.
Howden, Mrs, 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
*Howell, Mrs Philip, 5 Carlyle Square, London, S.W. 3. ' '
'
Howgrave-Graham, Captain A., Randfontein, Transvaal, S. Africa.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., Mendip House, Headington Hill, Oxford.
Humphreys, T. H. A., Boulac, Dacroor, Egypt.
Hurwitz, W. A., Ph.D., White Hall 8, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St Albans, Herts.
*Huxley, Professor Julian S., King's College, London, W.C. 2.
*Hyland, C. W., Ph.C, 300 Commissioner Street, Johannesburg East,
Transvaal, S. Africa.
*Hynes, Miss G., 41 Haverstock Hill, London, N.W. 3.
*Hyslop, George H., M.D., 3447 80fch Street, Jackson Heights, Long
Island, New York, U.S.A.
132] Members and Associates 363
Imamura, Prof. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial University,
Kioto, Japan.
*Innes, Lady Eose, Kolara, Gibson Road, Kenilworth, Cape, S. Africa.
*Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, Glos.
Jacks, L. P., LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
*James, Mrs Bayard, 405 East 54tli Street, New York, U.S.A.
*Jaines, Lieut. -Colonel E. A. H., R.E., 1 Haig Road West, Catterick
Camp, Richmond, Yorks.
James, Henry, 36 West 44th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*James, Miss S. Boucher, 2 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. L
*Jameson, David.
*Janson, E. W., Balfour House, 119-125 Finsbury Pavement, London,
E.G. 2.
Jaye, William R., Beldornie Tower, Pelham Field, Ryde, LW.
Jenkiuson, W. E., Willow Hall, Sowerby Bridge, Yorks.
*Jephson, Miss Ina, Ladyoak, Flimwell, Kent.
*Joekes, Dr Theodore, 86 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
*Johnson, Mrs Allen E., Brixie Field, C4odalming, Surrey.
Johnson, Miss F. C, 25 York Street Chambers, London, W. 1.
*Johnson, Miss G. M., 17 Randolph Crescent, London, W. 9.
*Johnson, James MacNeill, Aberdeen, North Carolina, U.S.A.
*Johnston, Sir Reginald F., C.M.G., C.B.E., K.C.M.G., 4 Bversfield Road,
Richmond, Surrey.
^Johnston, Dr William B., Giverny, par Vernon, Eure, France.
^Johnston, Mrs W. B., Giverny, par Vernon, Bure, France.
*Jones, Professor B. Melvill, Engineering Laboratory, Cambridge.
*Jones, Ernest, 540 Hempshaw Lane, Stockport, Cheshire.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
*Jones, Lady, 39 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Jones, Lawrence E.
*Jordan-Smith, B., Orchardlea, Grosvenor Road, Caversham, Reading.
*Judah, Noble B.
*Kakucs, Baroness de, United Berkeley Club, 247 Knightsbridge,
London, S.W. 1.
*Kellogg, F. R., 120 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Kelly, Miss Eleanor B., Kebars, The Lookout, Peacehaven, Sussex.
*King, Dame E. Locke, Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey.
*Kingsley, Mrs, Pine Grove, Kingsdown-on-Sea, Kent.
*Kingston, Leonard J., 22 Spencer Park, London, S.W. 18.
*Kiralfy, G. A., M.B.E., 44 Campden Hill Gate, London, W. 8.
Knight, Charles N., 7 Marlborough Buildings, Bath.
*La Ricerca Psichica, Via Monforte No. 4, Milan, Italy.
Laing, R. M., " OgUvie," 37 MacMillan Avenue, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, D.Sc, 65 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
*Lambert, G. W., 64 Onslow Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Lambert, Mrs Helen C, 12 East 88th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Lambert, Rudolf, Haigst 42, Degerloch bei Stuttgart, Germany.
Latshaw, Allen, Berwyn, Pa., U.S.A.
364 Members and Associates [part
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Mrs A. H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey. i
Leaf, Miss B. M., Leafield, Augustus Road, London, S.W. 19.
*Leaf, P. A., West Acre, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
*Leaning, Mrs S., Elmstead, Epsom Lane, Tadworth, Surrey.
*Le-Apsley, James H. M., M.D., 70 N. Judd Street, Honolulu, T.H.
Lee, Blewett, 355 Peachtree Battle Avenue, Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.
*Lee, Dr H. D. C, 32 New North Road, Huddersfield, Yorks.
*Lees, Norman D., A.I.C., Norton Hall, Norton-on-Tees, Co. Durham.
*Legg, W. A., 16 Bardwell Road, Oxford.
*Leigh, Mrs, 10 Belbroughton Road, Oxford.
Lenon, J. W., Wellington Club, Grosvenor Place, London, S.W. 1.
Leon, Mrs Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, London, W. 1.
*Leonard, Miss Margaret, Oakley House, Bromley Common, Kent.
Leopold, Dr H. M., Oranjelaan 7, Hilversum, Holland.
*Lester, Mrs M. C, Keynes Place, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
*Lewis, David J., 328 Fayette Street, Cumberland, Maryland, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Adelaide, S. Australia.
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, N.Y., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Studievereeniging voor " Psychical Research," Universi-
teits-Bibliotheek, Amsterdam, Holland.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library, Baltimore, Md., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Prussian State Library, Berlin, Germany.
Librarian, Public Libraries, Birmingham.
*Librarian, The University, Birmingham.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Bombay, India.
Librarian, Boston Athenaeum, Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Brighton.
*Librarian, The University, Bristol.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Grosvenor Library, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, John Crerar Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, 5707 Woodlawn Avenue,
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*Librarian, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Public Library, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Selskabet for Psykisk Forskning, Graabrodretorv 11, Copen-
hagen K., Denmark.
*Librarian, Iowa State Library, Des Moines, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, 102 Bath Street,
Glasgow.
Librarian, The University, Glasgow.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Case Memorial Library of the Hartford Seminary Founda-
tion, Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Haverford College Library, Haverford, Pa., U.S.A.
132] Members and Associates 365
*Librarian, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Leeds.
Librarian, Hon., Constitutional Club, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, Dr Williams's Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C. L
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.G. 2.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 46 Lancaster Gate, London, W. 2.
*Librarian, Public Library, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
*Librarian, John Rylands Library, Manchester.
Librarian, Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, The University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
*Librarian, Bavarian State Library, Munich, Germany.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Yale University, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, New York, U.S.A.
*Librarian, General Theological Seminary, Chelsea Square, New York,
U.S.A.
*Librarian, Public Library, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Portland Library Association, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Norsk Selskap for Psykisk Forskning, Parkveien 49, Oslo,
Norway.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, Cal., U.S.A.
Librarian, The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.,
*Librarian, Free Public Library of Philadelphia, Middle City Station,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Natal Society, Pietermaritzburg, Natal, S. Africa.
^Librarian, The University, Reykjavik, Iceland.
*Librarian, Public Libraries, Rochdale, Lanes.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library Association, St Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
^Librarian, James Jerome Hill Reference Library, St Paul, Minn., U.S. A
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
*Librarian, Legislative Library, Toronto, Canada.
*Librarian, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
*Llewellin, Mrs W., Upton House, nr Poole, Dorset.
*Lloyd, Miss Edyth M., 27 Coleherne Court, London, S.W. 5.
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Hillside, Balsall Common, nr Coventry.
*Lloyd-Jones, Mrs, 104 Draycott Avenue, Kenton, Middlesex.
*Loach, Mrs, 4 Lansdowne Road, Bromley, Kent.
Lodge, Dr Eleanor C, C.B.E., b Fyfield Road, Oxford.
*Lodge, F. Brodie, The Lawn, Rugby.
*Lodge, Mrs F. Brodie, The Lawn, Rugby.
y2
366 Members and Associates [part
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Normanton House, Lake, nr Salisbury.
Lubbock, Mrs Geoffrey, Glenconner, North Berwick.
Lunn, Arnold.
Lyon, Mrs, 49 Holland Park, London, W. 11.
*Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs Alfred, G.B.E., 18 Great College Street, London,
S.W. 1.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, London, W. 1.
*Machin, Mrs H. A. C, Kenora, Ontario, Canada.
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perth.
^Mackenzie, Mrs J. 0., 15 Lyndhurst Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
*Mackeson, Mrs Peyton, 1 Eldon Eoad, London, W. 8.
Macklin, Miss H. E. . .
-
*Macnamara, Rev. A., St Edward's School, Oxford.
Madders, Mrs H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4. '
'
-
*Magrane, Mrs Victor, 11 Grand Parade, Portsmouth.
*Mahony-Jones, Mrs, M.B., 1 Culverden Gardens, Tunbridge Wells,
Kent.
*Mallet, E. Hugo, 14 St James's Square, Bath.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
*Manning, Miss H. T., 102 Central Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mansell, A. E., Bundella, Dromedary, nr Hobart, Tasmania.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., 5 St James's Square, Bath.
*Manuel, Alexander G., M.D., 110 William Street, New York, U.S.A.
*Marsden-Smedley, Mrs, Lea Green, Matlock, Derbyshire.
Marston, Sir Charles, 4 Camden Park, Tunbridge Wells, Kent. , ,
Marten, Miss A. R., Osbornes, Liphook, Hants.
*Marten, Ven. G. H., St Mark's Vicarage, Surbiton, Surrey.
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall, London.
S.W. 1.
*Maude, Mrs A., 14 Lancaster Gate, London, W. 2.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., Pollok House, PoUokshaws.
Maxwell, Dr Joseph, 37 rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France. ,
*Mayberry, J. B., 12 Place Denfert-Rochereau, Paris, France.
Mayor, R. G., 36 Campden Hill Gardens, London, W. 8. i.
McAlpine, Sir Robert, Knott Park, Oxshott, Surrey.
*McCombe, John, M.U., Shaughnessy Bldg., 407 McGill Street, Mon-
treal, Canada.
McConnel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
McConnel, Mrs H. W., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
*McDougall, Miss C. J., Appleton-le-Moors, York.
McDougall, William, F.R.S., D.Sc, M.B., Duke University, Durham,
N. Carolina, U.S.A.
McKeever, Buell, The Chicago Club, Michigan Ave. and Van Buren
Street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*McLagan, P. W., 4378 Western Avenue, Westmount, Quebec, Canada.
McLauchlan, G. M., c/o Dr J. J. Dunne, Port Alfred, Cape Province,
S. Africa.
Meek, Maximilian de, 27 Boulevard de Cessole, Nice, France.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg, Germany.
132] Members and Associates 367
Mehrji, M. H., M.D., 49 Church Gate Street, Bombay, India.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
*Millard, Mrs Almira B., c/o The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Mills, J. P., I.C.S., c/o King, Hamilton & Co., 4 and 5 Koila Ghat
Street, Calcutta, India.
*Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hope Meadow, Hadlow, Kent.
Monypenny, Mrs A. E. G., 20 Palace Court, London, W.2
*Moore, His Honour Judge R. B., Eliot Vale House, London, S.E. 3.
*Morris, Miss H. L., 6 Fore Hill, Ely, Cambs.
^Mortimer, Mrs Stanley, 4 East 75th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Morton, Dr Eva, 24 Park Crescent, Portland Place, London, W. 1. .
*Mosher, Mrs Howard T., 216 Alexander Street. Rochester, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Moss, C. A., 224 Hamlet Court Road, Westcliff-on-Sea, Essex.
*Mounsey-Wood, Mrs, 58 Elmhurst Road, Reading, Berks.
*Muir, Mrs W. E., Rowallan, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Mullens, Lady, 6 Belgrave Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Mullins, Colonel W. B., Ambersham House, Midhurst, Sussex.
*Mure, Lady Georgiana, 19 Cliveden Place, London, S.W. 1.
*Murphy, Professor Gardner, Ph.D., Columbia University, N.Y., U.S.A.
Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., Yatscombe, Boars Hill,
Oxford.
*Myers, Mrs F. W. H., 12 Cleveland Row, St James's, London, S.W. 1.
*Myers, Harold H., Ovington House, Ovington Square, London, S.W. 3.
*Myers, L. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
*Nash, Miss Diana, Point of Pines, Tryon, N. Carolina, U.S.A.
*Naumburg, Miss Margaret, c/o Messrs Straus & Kenyon, 51 East 42nd
Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Neustadter, Louis W., 6845 Odin Street, Hollywood, Cal., U.S.A.
Newton, Miss F. E.
*Newton, Miss I., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
*Nicholl, Iltyd B., Wellington Club, 1 Grosvenor Place, London, S.W. 1.
^Nicholson, Dr C. R., 37 Greystoke Lodge, Hanger Hill, London, W. 5.
*Nicoll, Mrs De Lancey.
*Nijinsky, Madame, c/o Mr Chaw, 50 Church Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
*North, Sidney V., Ousedale House, nr Lewes, Sussex.
*Odell, A. E., 10 Knights Park, Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
*01dfield, Miss F., The Glen, Farnborough Park, Kent.
^Oliver, C. R., 24 Glazbury Road, London, W. 14.
*Osborne, Miss H., 10 Empire House, London, S.W. 7.
*Osmaston, Dudley F., Lowfold, Wisborough Green, Sussex.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
*Palmer, C. G., CLE., Duncan, Vancouver Island, British Columbia.
*Palmer, John W. G., 13 New Road, Brighton, Sussex.
*Palmstierna, H.E. Baron, 27 Portland Place, London, W. 1.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
Parsons, Karl, 3 Carlton Road, London, S.W. 15.
Parsons, N. M., 65 Bedford Gardens, London, W. 8.
368 Members and Associates [part
*Parsons, Miss P. C, Old Farm House, Cave End, Reading, Berks.
*Patten, Henry J., Ill W. Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Payne, Mrs, M.B., C.B.E., 143 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
*Peake, C. W.
Pease, Mrs J. R., Sesame Club, 49 Grosvenor Street, London, W. 1.
*Pennington, Mrs Henry, 279 Trinity Road, London, S.W. 12.
Perceval, Hon. Mrs Dudley, 153 Church Street, London, S.W. 3.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/o Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Ltd., London,
W.C. 2.
*Perrott, F. D., The Abbey, Penzance, Cornwall.
Perry, Sir B. Cooper, M.D., Seighford, Mill Road, West Worthing,
Sussex.
Perry, Mrs T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Phillimore, Hon. Mrs, Kendals Hall, Radlett, Herts.
*Phillimore, Miss M., 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Phillips, Mrs, c/o Mrs Colin Gow, 42 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W. 10
*Pickard, Mrs Fortescue, 51 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Piddington, J. G., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
*Piercy, Major B. H., 94 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treen, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, London, S.W. 18.
Pithapuram, The Maharajah of, Pithapuram, Madras Presidency, India.
*Plowden, Mrs, Dawnedge, Aspley Guise, Bletchley.
*Pocock, Miss F. N., 34 Gerard Road, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
*Pollock, A. N., M.B., Ch.B., Malton House, Barlow Moor Road,
Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Lanes.
Portsmouth, Beatrice, Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
Powles, Lewis Charles, Rother Cliff, Rye, Sussex.
*Prebble, Mrs, Fairhaven, Upper Strickland Avenue, Hobart, Tasmania.
*Preedy, Kenelm, 1 Ashburn Place, London, S.W. 7.
*Price, Harry, Arun Bank, Pulborough, Sussex.
*Putman, Miss Irene, 328 Walnut Avenue, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Pym, Leslie R., Penpergwm Lodge, Abergavenny, Wales.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Rabb, A. L., 1350 Consolidated Building, Indianapolis, Ind., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph.
*RadclyfEe-Hall, Miss M., The Black Boy, Rye, Sussex.
*Raikes, C. S. M., Northlands, 124 College Road, London, S.E. 19.
Raikes, Mrs, The Mill House, Burford, Oxon.
*Rampling-Ro.se, Major W., The Llyndir, Rossett, Denbighshire.
Ramsden, Miss H., Sesame Club, 49 Grosvenor Street, London, W. 1.
*Ransom, Francis, Newlands, Hitchin, Herts.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
*Rayleigh, Lord, Terling Place, Chelmsford, Essex.
*Rayleigh, The Dowager Lady, 65 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*Rees-Roberts, J. V., F.R.S., M.D., 90 Fitzjohn's Avenue, London,
N.W. 3.
132] Members and Associates 369
*Reeves, E. A., F.R.A.S., 56 Hillway, Higligate, London, N. 6.
*Reeves, Mrs M. S., 31 Pembroke Square, London, W. 8.
Rendall, Rev. Dr G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
*Reutiner, Miss A. H., 38 Harley Street, London, W. L
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford, Yorkshire.
*Rickman, John, M.D., 11 Kent Terrace, London, N.W. 1.
*Riddle, Mrs, Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew, Surrey.
Ridley, M. Roy, Balliol College, Oxford.
*Rinehart, Dr Stanley M., 2419 Massachusetts Avenue, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
*Ritchie, A. J., Oriental Club, Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Riviere, Mrs Evelyn, 3 Stanhope Terrace, London, W. 2.
Rix, Rev. A. H., 37 St Paul's Road, Manningham, Bradford.
*Roberts, C. E. Bechhofer, Leylands Farm, Abinger Common, nr
Dorking, Surrey.
*Robson, Major J. S., Hales Place, Tenterden, Kent.
^Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
*Romanes, F. J., The Brick House, Duton Hill, Dunmow, Essex.
*Rothschild, Miss Miriam L., 4 Palace Green, London, W. 8.
*Rothy, C, 1 Zuhatag-Gasse 5, Budapest, Hungary.
*Rowntree, W. S., 15 Chatsworth Road, Brighton, Sussex.
*Rugg, Miss E. M., Baptist Mission House, Dinajpur, N. Bengal, India.
*Russell, Dr A. V., 4 Oaks Crescent, Wolverhampton.
*Russell, Mrs, Oaklands, Hook, Basingstoke.
*Russell, Mrs E. S., Castlefield, Presteign, Radnorshire.
*Rust, Dr Montague, Boyndie, West Newport, Fife.
*Ryan, Mrs.
*Ryley, Mrs Beresford, 37 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
*Salter, F. R., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
^Salter, W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Salter, Mrs W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Saltmarsh, H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
*Saltmarsh, Mrs H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
Samaldas, Hon. Sir Lalubhai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Sassoon, Mrs Alfred, Weirleigh, Matfield Green, Kent.
Savill, Mrs, M.D., 7 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, F.B.A., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
*Schofield, R. W., 53 Leyland Road, Southport.
*Scotland, Douglas C, L.R.C.P., Church Lane, Brighouse, Yorks.
Scott, Miss A. D., 60 Hornsey Lane, London, N. 6.
Scott, Rev. D. D., C.F., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New
Zealand.
Scott, Captain J. E., 39 Albany Mansions, London, S.W. 11.
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Bdwardes Place, London, W. 8.
Shastri, B. G., Kala Mehta's Street, Sagrampura, Surat, India.
*Shaw, Mrs Bernard, 4 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. 1.
370 31embers and Associates
*Shaw, Mrs B. Vidal, Kisumu, Kenya Colony.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong.
*Sidgwick, Mrs Henry, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Simpson, Miss E. C. Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
*Sinclair, Miss May, 1 Blenheim Road, London, N.W. 8.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpiir, Punjab, India.
Smith, G. Albert, Rosedene, 7 Melville Road, Hove, Sussex.
*Smith, Harrison Bowne, Jr., c/o The George Washington Life
Insurance Co., Charleston, W. Va., U.S.A.
*Smith, Marion, 80-llth Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.
*Smith, Mrs Newton, 33 Dale View Crescent, Loudon, E. 4.
*Smith, The Lady Sybil, Mitford House, Lennox Gardens, London
S.W. 1.
Smith, Rev. William J., The Manse, Bo'ness, West Lothian.
*Smith, W. S. Montgomery, 16 Kensington Hall Gardens, London, W. 14.
*Soal, S. G., Scratton Lodge, Brook Road, Prittlewell, Essex.
Soley, Mrs, 66 Holbein House, Sloane Square, London, S.W. 1.
Southern, H., 3 Crescent Road, Beckenham, Kent.
*Sowrey, Wing-Commander J., R.A.F., R.A.F. Station, Uxbridge,
Middx.
*Spears, Mrs E. L., 8 Little College Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Spears, John, L.R.C.S., 145 Merton Road, London, S.W. 19.
Spens, William, Cor})us Christi College, Cambridge.
*Spranger, John A., 4 Via Micheli, Florence, Italy.
*Stansfield, C. E., 70 Northcourt Avenue, Reading, Berks.
*Steane, G. A., 12 Warwick Row, Coventry.
Stephens, Mrs, 41 Harrington Gardens, Loudon, S.W. 7.
Stephens, W. F., Mahe, Seychelles, Indian Ocean.
*Stephenson, F. W., Winter Field, Melbury Abbas, Shaftesbury, Dorset.
*Sterling, Miss F. M., Home Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
*Stevens, J. A., Wroxham, Hayes Lane, Bromley, Kent.
*Stevens, Rev. W. H., Rydal Mount, Victoria Road, Padiham, Burnley.
Stevenson, A. Creery, Bervie, Wood Lane, Fleet, Hants.
*Stevenson, Mrs A. F. G., 72 Heath Street West, Toronto, Canada.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
Stoehr, Miss, Alexandra Club, Cape Town, S. Africa.
*Story, Mrs, 33e Hogarth Road, London, S.W. 5.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St Andrews.
*Strachey, Mrs J. St Loe, 39 St Leonard's Terrace, London, S.W. 3.
*Stratton, Professor F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
*Strawson, A. H., 27 Norfolk Road, London, N.W. 8.
Streatfeild, W. H. R., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 18a Thurloe Place, London,
S.W. 7.
*Strutt, Rear-Admiral the Hon. A. C, R.N., 65 Cadogan Gardens,
London, S.W. 3.
*Strutt, Hon. Charles R., Terling Place, Chelmsford, Essex.
*Sturt, H. H., c/o Asiatic Petroleum Co., Singapore, Straits Settlements.
*Sutton, Mrs C. W., 4002 Montrose Avenue, Westmount, Montreal,
Canada.
Swainson, Miss F. J., 24 Montpelier Square, London, S.W. 7.
132] Members and Associates 371
*Swainson, Miss M., Forty Five, Manor Way, Euislip, Middx.
Swinburne, Mrs, 22 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
^Sydenham, F., F.E.C.S., M.D., 48 Oalthorpe Road, Edgbaston,
Birmingliam.
Tait, Mrs, 9 Aberdeen Court, London, W. 9.
Tatham, Hon. Justice F. S., D.S.O., Laga House, Glenborrodale,
Acharacle, Argyll.
*Taylor, Miss E. W., Forty Five, Manor Way, Ruislip, Middx.
*Telling, W. H. Maxwell, M.D., 29 Park Square, Leeds.
*Tennant, Mrs B. V., Hams Plot, Beaminster, Dorset.
*Thaw, A. Blair, 3255 N. Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Thibodeau, William A., 20 Chapel Street, Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
*Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford.
*Thomas, John F., 4375 Buena Vista, West Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
*Thomas, Miss S. E., 232 Alexandra Park Road, London, N. 22.
*Thompson, Dr R. B., Fellside, Brixham, S. Devon.
*Thorburn, John M., University College, Cathays Park, Cardiff.
Thornley, Miss F. J., The Pantiles, Brean Don Avenue, Weston-super-
Mare.
Thornton, Mrs, 5 Belgrave Place, Edinburgh.
^Thurn and Taxis, H.LH. The Princess Mary of, Loucen, Nimburg,
Czecho-Slovakia.
Thurston, Rev. Herbert, S.J., 114 Mount Street, London, W. 1.
Tinnevelly, Rt Rev. The Lord Bishop of, Bishopstowe, Palamcottah,
S. India.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow,
LF.S.
*Traprain, The Viscountess, Whittingehame House, Whittingehame,
Haddington.
*Trethewy, A. W., Artillery Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Trimen, Mrs, 19 Wetherby Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
*Troubridge, Una, Lady, The Black Boy, Rye, Sussex.
*Tuckey, Mrs C. Lloyd, Ingarsby, Silverdale Road, Eastbourne, Sussex.
*Turner, Miss J., B.A., 14 Endsleigh Street, London, W.C. 1.
Tuson, K. H., Lieut., R.E., G.H.Q., British Troops, Cairo, Egypt.
*Tyrrell, G. N. W., 17 Randolph Crescent, London, W. 9.
*Vandy, G. E., 94 Essex Road, London, E. 12.
Van Deren, H. S., Hume Fogg Building, Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
*Van Dijk, H. M., Staalkade 7, Amsterdam, Holland.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 298 Heemraad-Singel, Rotterdam,
Holland.
*Varvill, Bernard, M.R.C.S., 92 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
*Vatcher, Mrs, 21 St Leonard's Road, London, W. 13.
*Vaughan, E. L., 8 Arlington Road, Eastbourne.
*Vincent, Miss G. H. M. M., Carisbrooke Road, Leicester.
*Voss, Dr Vivian, Transvaal University College, Pretoria, S. Africa.
Vyvyan, Mrs T. C, Poldhu, Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
372 Members and Associates [part
*Wagstaff, Mrs, 19 Princess Court, London, W. 1.
*Wales, Hubert, Homewood Heath, Hindliead, Surrey.
*Walker, Mrs J. F., 26 St Andrew's Mansions, London, W. \.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 49 Drayton Gardens, London, S.W. 10.
Walker, Miss May C, c/o National Provincial Bank, Piccadilly,
London, W. 1.
*Walker, Miss Nea, 13 York Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Walker-Munro, Mrs, Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
* Wallace, Miss Margaret, 18 Marlborough Place, London, N.W. 8.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
Wang, G. Y., 63 Szeming Street, S.D.A., Hankow, China.
*Ward, Hon. Mrs Cyril, Horton Court, Chipping-Sodbury, Glos.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Moorings, Menai Bridge, N. Wales.
*Warner, Hon. Mrs W. W., 4 Whitehall Court, London, S.W. 1.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
*Warrick, F. W., 6 Raymond Buildings, London, W.C. 1.
*Watkins, Miss K. E., 53 All Souls' Avenue, London, N.W. 10.
Watson, Lady Milne-, 73 Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Watts, Mrs James, Branton, Bollin Hill, Wilmslow, Manchester.
*Weldon, Arthur, 23 Westminster Palace Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Wellesley, Sir Victor A. A. H., C.B., 20 St Loo Mansions, London,
S.W. 3.
*West, M., Cornerways, Baughurst, nr Basingstoke, Hants.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
*Whitehead, Miss Mercia D.
*Whitmee, A. C, Homelands, Fortis Green, London, N. 2.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
Wilkins, Mrs, 12 Braemar Avenue, Thornton Heath, Surrey.
Wilkins, C. F., Villa I'Horizon, Brunet, Toulon (Var), France.
*Wilkins, Rev. H. J., D.D., Redland Green, Bristol, Glos.
Williamson, Mrs R. W., The Copse, Brook, Godalming, Surrey.
*Willock, Mrs C. J., Lampool, nr Uckfield, Sussex.
*Wills, Miss Mary Tappan, The Continental Hotel, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Wilson, Mrs C. Stuart, Cairo, Egypt.
Wilson, Percy, 48 Clarendon Road, London, S.W. 15.
*Wilson, S. R. W., Lodge Farm, Wigginton, nr Tring, Herts.
*Wilson, W. R., Indian Head, Sask., Canada.
*Wilson-Wright, L. A., Meer Hill, Loxley, Warwick.
*Winby, Lieut.-Col. L. P., 11 Trevor Square, London, S.W. 7.
*Winchilsea and Nottingham, Edith, Countess of, Dower House,
Ewerby, Sleaford, Lines.
Wingham, T. H., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
*Winterstein, Dr Baron Alfred von, Wattmanngasse 38, Vienna xiii,
Austria.
*Wodehouse, The Lady Isabel, Kimberley House, Wymondham.
*Wood, Christopher, 28 Portman Court, London, W. 1.
*Wood, Rev. James L., 912 South 48th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
132] Members and Associates 373
*Wood, Richard, 7 Frankfort Avenue, Rathgar, Dublin, I.F.S.
*Wood, T. Eugene, Redcliffe, 14 Cliine Crescent Road, Bournemouth.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, nr Tewkes-
bury, Glos.
Woods, Miss Alice, St Ives, Radlett, Herts.
Woods, Miss C. E., Graythorpe, Kingswood, Surrey.
Woollett, Lieut.-Colonel W. C, Grand Hotel, Gibraltar.
*Woolley, Mrs Cornell, 950 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Worsfold, Mrs Basil, 3 Plowden Buildings, Temple. London, E.C. 4.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, London, S.W. 18.
*Wright, Dr A. F.
*Wright, H. R., 15b St Mildred's Road, Lee, London, S.E. 12.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 86 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
^Yardley, R. B., 3 Paper Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
*Yerburgh, Rev. W. H. B., The Rectory, Bredon, Tewkesbury, Glos.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, Currant Hill, Westerham, Kent.
*Zachystal, Dr Dominik, Havl. nam 6, Prague, Czecho-Slovakia.
*Zeigler, Major C. H., Springfield, Breinton, Hereford.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. 41.
For the sake of brevity such quahfications as " supposed,"
" alleged," etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however, be
understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and does
not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry is in
fact real or genuine.
Adventure, An, 73.
Aksakov, Alexander N., his bequest
to the Society, 3.
American Society for Psychical Re-
search, 115, 206 ; its development
and connection with the English
Society, 10.
Apparitions, 4, 12-13 ;
collectively
and reciprocally perceived, 205-
249 : crystal visions and allied
phenomena, 206-208 ;
apparitions
of living persons, 208-210 ; of per-
sons at or near the point of death,
210-211 ; unidentified (or doubt-
fully identified) apparitions, 211-
215 ; of persons known to be dead,
215-222 ;
apparitions correspond-
ing with deliberate attempts to
produce them, 222-228 ; with
dreams or hallucinations in the
appearers, 228-2.34 ; reciprocal
dreams, 234-240 ; the probabilities
that the phenomena actually occur,
240-243 ; their objectivity, 243-
246 ; whether they are conscious
personaUties, 246-249.
Automatism, 8, 63 ; Mrs VerraU's
group for the investigation of, 15-
16; Mrs Lyttelton on, 334, 340, 342.
Baggally, Miss, 297.
Baggally, W. W., his investigations
with Eusapia Palladino, 20 ; re-
ceives automatic scripts, 16.
Bailey, Charles, medium, 19.
Balfour, Arthur J., Earl of, 24.
Balfour, Gerald W., Earl of, his re-
marks on Mrs SidgAvick's paper on
the history of the Society, 26.
Barkla, Prof. C. G., 314 ff.
Barlow, Fred, and Major W. Ramp-
ling Rose, " Report of an Investi-
gation into Spirit Photography,"
121-1.38.
Barrett, Sir W. F., his membership of
the first Council, 3 ; his study of
dowsing, 13-14 ; his part in the
formation of the Society, 1 ; of the
American Society, 10 ; his experi-
ments in telepathy, 7.
Barrett, Lady, 295.
Beauchamj), " Sally," a case of mul-
tiple personality, 77.
Behaviourist experiment in clair-
voyance, a, 99-114.
Beraud, Martlie, see Eva C.
Bergson, Prof. Henri, 24.
Besterman, Theodore, 114; on the
element of chance in booktests, 1 7 ;
376 Index to Vol. XLI [PARTS
" Classified List of the Contents of
the Society's Proceedings and Jour-
nal," 27-59 ; and The Divining-
Rod, 14 ;
" An Experiment in
'
Clairvoyance ' with M. Stefan
Ossowiecki," 345-351 ; Librarian
of the Society, 2 ; his investigation
of mediums in central Eurofie, 22 ;
on Dr Osty's results with Rudi
Schneider, 290 ; on Mr Price's " ex-
posure " of Rudi Schneider, 291 ;
on the psychology of testimony,
10 ;
" Report of an Inquiry into
Precognitive Dreams," 73, 186-
204.
Bisson, Mme J. A., her connection
with Eva C, 20.
Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna, and the
Society, 8-9.
Blood-pressure, the fall of, in Rudi
Schneider's trance, 284.
Bois, H. G., 284.
Booktests, 10, 114; Mrs Leonard's,
17.
Boston Society for Psychical Re-
search, 79, 80, 291 ; Bulletin
XVIII, reviewed, 115-119.
Brackenbury, Mrs, 118-119.
Bragg, Sir WilUam, 283.
Breathing, the increased rate of, in
Rudi Schneider's trance, 85, 269,
270, 271-272, 273, 275, 282, 284.
British Broadcasting Corporation, 22,
104.
British College of Psychic Science,
Ltd., George Moss's sittings at the,
122-123.
British Photographic Research Associ-
ation, its report on spirit photo-
grafihy, 131-132.
Brittain, Mrs, medium, the Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas's records of sit-
tings with, 164-165.
Broad, Prof. C. D., 340.
Brown, Dr WiUiam, 255, 267, 276,
282-283, 293 S. ; his sittings with
Mrs Leonard, 79, 82 ; his sittings
with Rudi Schneider, 84, 86, 283-
284 ;
" Psychology and Psychical
Research,"" 75-88.
Brown, Mrs WiUiam, 267, 293 ff.
Buxton, Mrs, spirit-photograi^her, 21,
124, 134.
Carancini, F., medium, 19.
Cards, playing-, experiments in the
clairvoyant perception of, 81, 100-
114 ; the possibility of experiments
in precognition with, 344.
Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, its
grant for the Society's Library, 2.
Carrington, Hereward, his investiga-
tions with Eusapia Palladino, 20 ;
on the Walter thumb-prints, 117-
118.
Chambers, C, medium, 19.
Carruthers, Miss H., 102.
Chance, the element of, in booktests,
10, 17 ; in corresjDondence of dia-
grams, 10 ; in cross-correspond-
ences, 10.
Clairvoyance, a behaviourist exjaeri-
ment in, 99-114 ; claimed by Mme
Blavatsky and Theosophists in
India, 8 ; the conditions for, 99,
114; an experiment with M. Stefan
Ossowiecki in, 345-351 ; the ex-
planation of, 334, 335 ; the influ-
ence of subconscious preferences in,
104, 114; in booktests, 14; in
dowsing, 14 ; in the hypnotic state,
78, 87, 88 ; in mediumistic com-
munications, 156-162 ; mass-ex-
perimeiits in, 22, 23, 81.
Clive, Lord, 314.
Cochrane-BailUe, Capt. the Hon. Vic-
tor, 267, 268, 276, 287, 291, 303 ff.
Colley, Archdeacon, 127.
Control, the adequacy of, in experi-
ments with Margery, 118-119
;
with Rudi Sclmeider, 84-85, 255,
256-259, 270, 275, 284, 285-291.
Controls, 156, 167, 332 ; William
Hope's, 126 ; Mrs Leonard's, 78,
139 If. ; Stainton Moses's and Mrs
Piper's, 11 ; Rudi Schneider's,
257 ff.
Control experiments, in telepathy, 10.
Cooper, Mrs Blanche, medium, 18.
Coover, Dr J. E., his experiments in
telepathy, 155.
Coulomb, Mr and Mrs, and Mme
Blavatsky, 8.
Courtauld, Major, 305.
Courtauld, Mrs J., 305.
Craddock, F. F., medium, 19.
Craik, Lady, 300 ff.
Crandon, Dr L. R. G., 118.
Crandon, Mrs L. R. G. [Margery), 21,
115-119.
126-132] Index to Vol. XLI 377
Crawford, Dr W. J., 127.
Creary children, Sir W. Barrett's ex-
periments in telepathy with the, 7.
"Crewe circle," the, 21, 122; Mr
Fred Barlow and Major W. Ramp-
ling-Rose on, 123-138.
Crookes, Sir William, 24 ; his demon-
stration of telekinesis, 68 ; on
Spiritualism, 65.
Crosfield, Lady, 268, 297 fE.
Cross-correspondences, 10 ; in the
automatic scripts of Mrs VerraU's
group, 16.
Davey, S. J., his imitation of Eghn-
ton'sslate-writing phenomena, 9-10.
De Crespigny, Mrs, 72.
De Gernon, Mrs, 285, 287, 316 ff.
De Laszlo, Mr, 296.
De Laszlo, Mrs, 295 ff.
De Zoete, Miss, 313.
Deane, Mrs, medium for spirit photo-
graphy, 122, 124-125, 131 ;
Major
Rampling-Rose on, 137-138.
Dessoir, Max, his experiments in tele-
pathy, 7.
Deutsch, Joseph, Konnersreuth, re-
viewed, 250-253.
Dingwal], E. J., 21.
Dissociation of personality, 63 ; and
mediumship, 77-78, 83, 331-332.
Douglas, James, 131.
Dowsing, Sir Oliver Lodge on, 68 ;
the study of, by Sir \\m. Barrett,
13-14 ;
by Prof. W. J. SoUas and
others, 13.
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, 127, 131 ;
and psj'chical research, 71-72 ; on
spirit photography, 126.
Dreams, 63, 73, 78 ;
reciprocal, 234-
240 ;
report of an inquiry into pre-
cognitive, 186-204, 340.
Driesch, Prof. Hans, 24, 340.
Dudley, E. E., on the Walter thumb-
prints, 116-117.
Dunne, J. W., his theory of precog-
nitive dreams, 73, 186, 187, 195,
201-204, 340, 344.
Ecstasy, 63.
Ectoplasm, 87, 92, 269.
EgHnton, Wilham, his conspiracy
with Mme Blavatsky, 9 ; as slate-
writing medium, 9.
Eldred, C., medium, 19.
Elliott, Mrs Warren, her trance
mediumship, 18.
Eva C. (Marthe Beraud), as medium
for materiaUsations, 20 ; the
Society's investigations of, 20.
Evelyn, John, 293 ff., 345, 346, 350,
351.
Fielding, Hon. Everard, his examina-
tion of a poltergeist case, 19 ; his
investigations with Eusapia Palla-
dino, 20.
Fisher, Dr R. A., his report on Miss
Jephson's cai'd-pairing experi-
ments, 107, 113, 114.
Flugel, Prof. J. C, 102.
" Forbes," Mrs, pseud., her automatic
wi'iting, 15.
Fraud, the detection of, 83, 85 ; in
the mediumships of Chambers,
Craddock, Eldred, Carancini,
Charles Bailey, 19 ; of Eusapia
Palladino, 20 ; of George Moss,
122-123 ; of two mediums at Buda-
pest, and of Frau ilaria Silbert of
Graz, 22 ; in spirit- photography,
121, 122, 131-133, 135-138.
, the possibility of, in clau'voyant
experiments, 99 ; in experiments
with Rudi Schiaeider, 255, 269, 270,
271, 273-274, 282, 285-291.
Fronczek, Janus, as medium for
physical phenomena, 21.
Genius, 63, 75, 343.
Goadby, Arthur, on the Walter thumb-
prints, 116-117.
Gordon Davis case, the, 74.
Gow, David, 72.
Gower, Dr T. H., on physical pheno-
mena in his sittings with friends,
19.
Gramophone records of Rudi Schnei-
der's breathing in trance, 269, 272.
Gravier, A., 345 ff.
Gregory, C. C. L., 255, 273, 293 ff. ;
his report on sittings with Rudi
Schneider, 275-282 ; a tabular
synoijsis of the personnel and
phenomena at, 278-281.
Gurney, Edmund, his attempted cen-
sus of veridical apparitions, 12-13 ;
as supposed communicator of auto-
matic scripts, 16 ; as member of
the first Council, 3-4 ; his death.
378 Index to Vol. XLI [PARTS
11 ; his experiments in hypnotism,
8 ;
joint author of Phantasms of the
Living, 5, 11, 62 ; his i^art in the
formation of the Society, 1 ; as the
Society's Honorary Secretary and
Editor, 12 ; his study of Spiritualist
Hterature, 64 ; a tribute to his
work, 11.
Hall, Miss RadclyfEe, her sittings with
Mrs Leonard, 17.
Hallucinations, a census of, by the
Society, 12-13 ; collective and re-
ciprocal, 205-249.
Hart, Hornell, and Ella B. Hart,
" Visions and apparitions collec-
tively and reciprocally perceived,"
205-249.
Harris, Prof. D. F. Eraser, 255, 267,
276, 277, 29.3 ff . ; his report on
sittings with Rudi Schneider, 271-
274.
Harris, Mrs Eraser, 267, 298 ff.
Hauntings, 4.
Heard, Gerald, 255, 296 11. ; his re-
port on sittings with Rudi Schnei-
der, 282-283.
Hemenway, Mrs Augustus, 21.
Herbert, C. V. C, 255, 256, 270, 271,
274, 283, 293 ff. ; his report on
sittings with Rudi Schneider, 259-
269.
Higson, Dr, his experiments with
Wilham Hope, 131-132.
Hodgson, Richard, as secretary of the
American Society, 10 ; his investi-
gations of the Blavatsky jjlieno-
mena, 8 ; on communication with
the dead, 11 ; his study of Mrs
Piper's phenomena, 10-11.
Holland,Mrs, her automaticwriting, 15.
Hope, Lord Charles, 345 ff. ;
" Re-
port of a Series of Sittings with
Rudi Schneider," 255-3.30.
Hope, Lady D., 307 ff.
Hope, William, as medium for spirit
photography, 21 ; Mr Ered Barlow
and Major "W. Rampling-Rose on,
123-138 ; his account of sittings
with Barlow and Rose, 133.
Hudson, Thomas J., on dualism, 66.
Hunum Personalittj and its Survival of
Bodily Death, 8, 12, 14, 62-63, 74,
206.
Huxley, Mrs Julian, 293 ff.
Hyperpnoea, in Rudi Schneider's
'trance, 85, 269, 270, 271-272, 273,
275, 282, 284.
Hypnotism, 4 ; Ed. Gurney's experi-
ments in, 8, 12 ;
passes into the
hands of the medical profession,
12 ; and mediumship, 78-79, 88 ;
in F. W. H. Myers's Human Per-
sonality, 12, 63; G. A. Smith's
entertainments in, 12.
Hyslop, James H., and the American
Society, 10.
Hvsteria, 63, 75, 78 ; and medium-
ship, 77-79.
Infra-red " light," the use of, for
silhouette photography in me-
diumistic investigation, 89-98 ; in
sittings with Rudi Schneider, 85,
89, 92, 255, 256-259, 260-284, 290,
291-3.30.
Institut Metapsychique, Paris, Rudi
Schneider's sittings at the, 255, 287,
290.
Irwin, R. L., his experiments in tele-
pathy, 80-81.
James, Prof. William, 24 ; as member
of the American Society, 10 ; his
study of the trance mediumship of
Mrs Piper, 10-11.
Jephson, Ina, " A Behaviom-ist Ex-
periment in Clairvoyance," 99-114 ;
her experiments on mass clairvoy-
ance, 23, 81, 104, 344.
Johnson, Alice, as Editor of Proceed-
ings and Journal, 14 ; her report
on Mrs Holland's script, 15 ; on
physical phenomena in sittings
with Dr Gower's friends, 19-20.
Konnersreuth in drtzlicher Beleuch-
tiing, by Josef Deutsch, reviewed,
250-25.3.
Languages, the writing of foreign, in
Hope's psychographs, 129.
Leahy, C. E., 328.
Leonard, Mrs Osborne, 321 ; her
booktests, 17 ; her sittings for the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, 139-185 ;
for Dr William Brown, 79, 82 ; her
trance mediumship, 17.
Levitation of tables, a case of decep-
tion in the, 18-19.
126-1321 Index to Vol. XLI 379
Levy, Prof. H., 298.
Light, 284.
Livens, Capt., 313.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 79 ; on Dr Wm
Brown's '"
Psychology and Psychi-
cal Research," 87 ; as President of
the Society, 1899-1902, 14-1.5, 24 ;
his Presidential Address, 1932,
" The Past and the Future," 61-74,
75 ; his sittings with Eusapia Palla-
dino, 20 ; on sittings with Mrs
Thompson, 15 ; his part in mass
telepathy experiments, 23.
London Spiritualist Alliance, 72, 256,
263.
Lyttelton, The Hon. Mrs Alfred, 186,
299 S. ; her automatic writing, 15 ;
her Presidential Address, 1933, 331-
344.
Lyttelton, The Hon. Charles, 322.
McDougaU, Dr Wilham, 24.
Mackenzie, A. D., 326.
Mackenzie, Hewat, 122.
" Macs," The, pseud., their automatic
writing, 15.
Maeterlinck, Maurice, 344.
Mallet, H., 142.
Mangl, Fraulein, 293 ff. ; her presence
at sittings given by Rudi Schneider,
84, 258.
Margery, see Crandon, Mrs L. R. G.
Mariott, John, magician, produces
" spirit " photograj^hs, 131.
Materialisation, 87.
Mediumship, Dr Wm Brown on, 77-
79, 82-85 ; Mrs Lyttelton on, 332-
344.
Mesmerism, 4.
Metagnomy, the hypothesis of, in
mediumistic communications, 156-
162.
Mental radio, 80.
Mitchell, Dr T. W., 24 ; on medium-
ship, 83.
Moseley, S., 128.
Moses, Stainton, his Controls, 1 1 ; his
membership of the first Council, 4 ;
his impatience with the Society's
caution, 61.
Moss, George, medium for spirit-
photography, 121-123.
Multiple personality, 63 ; and me-
diumship, 77-78', 83, 282, 331-
.332.
Murphy, Prof. Gardner, 102.
Murray, Prof. Gilbert, 331.
Myers, Frederic W. H., his work on
automatism, .8 ; as supposed com-
municator of automatic scripts, 16 ;
his membership of the first Council,
3 ; his death, 14 ; his appreciation
of Ed. Gurney's work, 11 ; his book.
Human Personality and its Surriml
of Bodily Death, 8, 12 ; his study of
hypnotism, 12 ; joint author of
Phantasms of the Living, 5 ; on the
method of psychical research, 63-
68 ; his sittings with Eusajsia Palla-
dino, 20 ; his part in the formation
of the Society, 1 ; on the objects
and policy of the Society, 62, 63, 64,
69-71 ; on spiritualism, 69-71 ; his
theory of the subliminal seK, 8, 66,
75.
National Laboratory of Psychical Re-
search, Rudi Schneider's sittings at
the, 84«, 255, 284-291.
Neumann, Therese, the " miracles
"
connected with, 250-252.
Newton, Isabel, 114 ;
Secretary of
the Society, 62.
O'Rorke, Mr, 299.
" Oscar Wilde Scripts," 17.
Ossowiecki, Stefan, an experiment in
" clairvoyance " with, 345-351.
Osty, Dr Eugene, 344. .345 ; his ex-
periments with Rudi Schneider, 85,
89, 92, 255, 260, 271, 274, 277, 282,
283, 290 ; on Mr Price's " ex-
posure " of Rudi Schneider, 291.
Osty, Marcel, his experiments with
Rudi Schneider, 89, 255, 256,
257.
Paget, Mrs, 314.
Palladino, Eusapia, as medium for
telekinesis, 20 ; the Society's in-
vestigation of, 20.
Paraphysical phenomena, 4, 9, 18-22,
67, 68. 83-84, 89, 98 ; in Rudi
Schneider's sittings, 258, 276-277,
284, 293 ff.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count,
review by, 250-253.
Phantasms of the dead, 6, 63, 66.
PJmntasnis of the Living, 5-6, 11, 13,
62, 206.
380 Index to Vol. XLI [PARTS
Photography, silhouette, by infra-red
rays, in mediumistic investigation,
89-98.
Piddington, J. G., receives automatic
scripts, 16, .342 ; as honorary secre-
tary of the Society, 14 ; on Mrs
Thompson's trance, 1.5.
Piper, Mrs, her trance mediumship,
10, 11.
Playing-cards, experiments in the
clairvoyant perception of, 81, 100-
114.
Podmore, Frank, joint author of
Phantasms of the Living, 5.
Pollard, Prof. A. F. C, 276, 29.3 ff. ;
his report on sittings with Rudi
Schneider, 274-275.
Pollard, Mrs, 300 ff.
Poltergeists, 19.
Possession, 63 ;
by spirits in trance
mediumship, 67, 343.
Precognition, in automatic scripts,
16 ; Sir Oliver Lodge's experience
of, 73-74 ; Mrs Lyttelton on,
334-344 ; F. W. H. Myers on,
67.
Precognitive dreams, Th. Besterman's
inquiry into, 73 ; J. W. Dunne's
theory of, 73, 186 ; report of an
inquiry into, 186-204 ; introduc-
tion, 186 ; the experiment : first
series, 187-190 ;
general notes, 190-
195 ; the experiment : second
series, 195-201 ; the experiment
:
third series, 201-204 ;
conclusion,
204.
Prediction, normal, 73, 76.
Premonitions, 6.
Price, H. H., collects the precognitive
dreams of Oxford undergraduates,
195-196, 204.
Price, Harry, 84)t ; his experiment
with Wm Hope, 21, 126-127 ; his
sittings with Rudi Schneider, 275,
284-291.
Price, Dr Slater, on experiments with
William Hope, 132.
Prince, Morton, and " Sally " Beau-
champ, 77.
Prince, Dr Walter F., on human ex-
periences and psychic occurrences,
206 ; on the distinctions between
telepathic and mediumistic mes-
sages, 153-1.54 ; on Mr Price's " ex-
posure " of Rudi Schneider, 291 ;
on the Sinclair experiments demon-
strating telepathy, 80-81.
Probability in relation to telepathy
and clairvoyance, 81.
Proxy sittings, consideration of a
series of, 139-185 : the cases, 139-
149 ; the hypotheses of telepathy
or clairvoyance, 149-162 ; of spirit
communication, 162-180 ; the case
of Ralph Gould, 180-184 ;
analysis
of the facts communicated, 184-
185.
Psychic Science, 122.
Psychographs, in spirit photography,
127-129.
Psychology and psychical research,
75- 88.
Pugh, H. W., contributes towards an
investigation of spirit photography,
21.
Quilter, Mrs P., 268.
Rayleigh, 3rd Baron, 24.
Rayleigh, 4th Baron, 255, 269, 294 ff.;
his apparatus used in sittings with
Rudi Schneider, 260-262, 265-266,
282 ; his report on sittings with
Rudi Schneider, 269-271 ;
" On a
Method of Silhouette Photography
by Infra-Red Rays for use in
Mediumistic Investigation," 89-98.
Rayleigh, the Dowager Lady, 256,
262.
Records, the importance of objective,
in research on physical pheno-
mena, 89.
Reichenbach's experiments, 4.
Relativity of space-time, theory of,
76- 77.
Retrocognition, 73.
Reutiner, Miss A., 267, 293 ff., 345,
.346, 350, 351.
Revue Metapsijchique, 291.
Richet, Charles, 24 ; and Eusapia
Palladino, 20 ; his hypothesis of a
sixth sense, 332-333, 336, 344 ; his
experiments in telepathy, 7.
Robinson, Dr Wheeler, 2.55, 314 ff. ;
his report on sittings with Rudi
Schneider, 283.
Rose, Major W. Rampling, Fred Bar-
low and, " Report of an Investiga-
tion into Spirit-Photography," 121-
138.
126-132] Index to Vol. XLI 381
Salter, W. H., his report on S. G.
Seal's automatic scripts, 17.
Salter, Mrs W. H., 139-140. 165 ; her
automatic writing, 15 ; her report
on the history of Marthe Beraud,
20.
Saltmarsh, H. F., 139-140, 165 ; his
report on the trance mediumship of
Mrs Warren EUiott, 18.
Scatcherd, Miss, 127.
Schiller, Dr F. C. S., 24.
Schneider, Rudi, as medium for tele-
kinesis, 84-85 ; Lord Charles
Hope's sittings with, 255-330 ; Dr
Eugene Osty's results with, 85, 89 ;
Mr Harry Price's experiments with,
284-291.
Sclineider, Willy, as medium for tele-
kinesis, 21.
Schrenck-Notzing, Baron von, his in-
vestigations with Willy Schneider,
21 ; his experiments in telepathy,
7.
Scrying, 206-208.
Sidgwick, Henry, his report on the
international census of hallucina-
tions, 13 ; his death, 14 ; as Presi-
dent of the first Council, 3,11,62;
his sittings with Eusapia Palladino,
20 ; his part in the formation of
the Society, 1 ; on the objects
and policy of the Society, 61,
62.
Sidgwick, Mrs Henry, her examina-
tion of booktests, 17, 168 ; her be-
lief in survival, 26 ; review by, 115-
119 ;
" The Society for Psychical
Research. A short account of its
historj' and work on the occasion of
the Society's Jubilee, 1932," 1-26 ;
on spirit photography, 124 ; on
telepathy, 24, 26.
Silbert, Frau Maria, medium, 22.
Sinclair, Miss Nancy, 336.
Sinclair, Mr and Mrs Upton, their ex-
periments in telepathy, 80-81.
Slate-writing, by William Eglinton, 9.
Smith, G. A., as hypnotist for Ed.
Gurney's experiments, 12 ; his ex-
periments in telepathy, 7, 12.
Soal, S. G., 114 ; his automatic
scripts, 17 ; on communications
through Mrs Blanche Cooper, 18,
72-73 ; his statistical experiments
in telepathy, 23, 79-80.
Society for Psychical Research, and
Madame Blavatsky, 8 ; its Census
of Hallucinations, 12-13 ; its con-
stitution, 4 ; its Council, 3, 4, 5, 6 ;
its Editors, 12, 14 ; its investiga-
tions of Eva C, 20 ; its finance,
2, 3 ; its foundations, 1882, 1-2, 61
;
its Founders, their objects and
policy, 61-62, 64, 68-69, 71 ;
gifts
and bequests to, 3, 21, 22 ; its his-
tory and work, 1-26 ; its Journal,
3, 6-7, 206 ; a classified Hst of the
contents of, 27-59 ; its Jubilee,
1932, 1, 62; its library, 2; its
mass experiments in card-guessing,
100, 104 ; in telepathy, 22-23, 155 ;
its members and associates, 1882-
19.32, 2 ; in 1933. 353-373 ; its
Officers and Council for 1933, 353 ;
its Presidents, 3, 14-15, 24, 331 ;
its Proceedings, 2, 206 ; a classified
list of the contents of, 27-59 ; its
pubHcations, 2, 5-6 ; its relations
to the American Society, 10 ; its
seance-room, 3, 21 ; its Honorary
Secretaries, 12, 14 ; its trustees,
3.
Society for the Study of Supernormal
Pictures, 125.
Space, our relation to, Sir Oliver
Lodge on, 73-74 ; F. W. H. Myers
on, 67.
Spirit photography, report of an in-
vestigation into, 121-138.
Spirit communications. Mrs Lyttelton
on, 339, 340, 343-344 ; in the Rev.
C. Dravton Thomas's proxy sittings
with Mrs Leonard, 142-149, 163-
165, 170, 172-179, 180-184.
Spiritualism, 64-66.
Statistical experiments, in clairvoy-
ance, 107, 113-114; in telepathy,
79-80.
Stead, Miss Estelle, 131.
Stewart, Prof Balfour, 24.
Strutt, Admu-al the Hon. A. C, 186,
268, 294 ff.
Strutt, the Hon. C, 296 fE.
Subhmmal seH, 86 ; F. W. H. Myers's
work on the, 8, 66.
Suggestion treatment, telepathic
transmission in, 82-83, 88.
Sunday Dispatch, The, 288.
Survival, evidence for personal, 16,
18, 26, 343-344.
382 Index to Vol. XLl [PARTS 126-1321
Swedenborg, Emanuel, on Spiritual-
ism, 64-65.
Taylor, Lieut. -Colonel G. Le M., on
chance coincidences, 10 ; his report
on various spiritualist phenomena,
19.
Telekinesis, admitted by Dr Wm
Brown, 84-85, 86 ;
by Sir OHver
Lodge, 68, 86 ; claimed by Mme
Blavatsky and Theosophists, 8 ;
by
Eusapia Palladino, 20 ; effected by
Rudi Schneider, 84, 256 ff.; theories
to exj^lain, 85, 87.
Telepathy, 4, 24, 25-26, 66, 67, 72 ;
Dr Wm Brown's experiences of, 81-
83 ; the conditions for, 83, 88, 156 ;
early experiments in, 7, 12, 79 ; in
cross-correspondences, 16 ; in the
hypnotic state, 78 ; mass-experi-
ments in, 22-23, 155 ; in medium-
istic communications, 18, 79, 81,
149-156, 3.34-335 ; the Sinclair ex-
periments in, 81-82 ;
spontaneous
cases of, 7 ; statistical experiments
in, 23, 79-80, 155 ; in cases of super-
conscious knowledge, 334-335 ; Col.
Taylor's " control experiment " in,
10 ; the " willing game," 7-8.
Theosophical Society, 8.
Theosophy, 340.
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton, " A Con-
sideration of a Series of Proxy
Sittings," 139-185.
Thomas, E. S., 102.
Thompson, Mrs Edmond, her trance
mediumship, 15.
Thumb-prints, the Walter, 115-119.
Time, our relations to, Dr William
Brown on, 76-77 ; Sir Oliver Lodge
on, 73-74 ; Mrs Lyttelton on, 337 ;
F. W. H. Myers on, 67.
" Tony Burman case," the, 18.
Trance Mediumship, 10-11, 15, 17, 18,
63, 257 ff. ; as a method of com-
munication with the dead, 67-68,
72 ; theories of physical pheno-
mena produced in, 85, 87.
Trethewy, A. W., on Mrs Piper's
Controls, 11.
Troubridge, Una, Lady, her sittings
with Mrs Leonard, 17.
" Unconscious mind," the, 339-340 ;
modern doctrine of, 75-76 ; F. W.
H. Myers's theory of, 75-76.
Veley, Margaret, 17.
Verrall, Mrs A. W., her automatic
writing, 15.
Walker, Nea, 152 ; on proxy sittings,
139; and "The Tony' Burnam
Case," 18.
Walker, William, 127.
Wallace, Alfred Russell, his im-
patience with the Society's caution,
61 ; his Spiritist views, 65.
Warrick, F. W., and Wm. Hope's
spirit photography, 137.
Willett, Mrs, pseud., her automatic
writing, 15.
" Willing game," 7-8.
Wilson, Mi's, joins group of auto-
matists, 15.
Wodzinska, Mme Marie, 345, 346, 350,
351.
Woolley, Dr V. J., 21, 22-2.3, 118-119.
Worsfold, Mrs Basil, 102.
Yaensch, Dr, on eidetic images, 341.
Zuckermann, Dr, 313 £E.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
