{"name":"Letter To Rev Stanhope Bruce","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1801__southcott___letter_to_rev_stanhope_bruce.pdf","mytitle":"Letter To Rev Stanhope Bruce","mylang":"de"}
D IV IN E A N D S P IR IT U A L
LETTERS o f PROPHECIES
Sent to Reverend Divines, and other spiritual good men
and women, that are now ordered to be put in print by
Divine commandfor the good of the public, and to try
the wisdom of mankind to what spirit they will allude
this strange revelation*.
To the Rev. S t a n h o p e B r u c e .
R e v . S i r , Exeter, Nov. 7 , 1 8 0 1 ,
IR e ce iv ed your letter, and was provoked and fur-
priled at the people who boalt o f fenfe without
reafon: and this depravity in the human creation hath
worked their ruin in every age of the world; as it did
that of the jews: for it was the ruin of them. Had
they ufed lenfe with their reafon they mull have
known it was impoflible for all the powers o f earth
or hell to work the miracles our Saviour wrought;
and they mull difhonour God, by judging him fuch
another as themfelves, to let an impoltor work fuch
miracles, to be worfhipped equal with the father,
and in and through his blood man to look for re­
demption, did not the Lord know this would follow
his miracles: and if they were not wrought by the
fpirit of God, and he was not, as he faid, the Son of
God, the Lord mull have given his honour to the de­
vil; by whom they erroneoufly faid the miracles were
wrought. But now I fhall call both jews and gentiles
together, when my writings are proved: and let the
A ( jews
Digitized by Google
jews bring their Belzebub with them to work the
miracles our dear Redeemer wrought, and I will give
it up to them. If not, let their mouths be (lopped,
and their tongues be (ilent; when I put a book into
your hands, when you are all afTemblcd together,
Inch as was never wrote before, nor fincc the foun­
dation of the world, nor ever entered into the heart
or thought of man. For though it is written the
faints mull judge the earth, they never underllood in
what manner. If it began with the woman, it mud
end with the woman.— If it began with the ferpent it
mull end with the ferpent.
( 50 )
Foi he awl I tlv (v.ufi- m
wft tiv :
1 lc 1ml me pluck ihr f»mi,
To know whcie tlitl ilic evil lay ;
Tlu*n now I’ll llukr the* root.
If I began 1*11 lo go on.
Ami pluck the ftuir all through,
'T ill do w n the on 11 all lhall u m ic ,
And man iho good Hull know,
\\ hen 1 begin lo aniwer man
In cv’rv ago ilull’s pall,
i know (hat iiionl man mull Hand,
And lu‘ll in lago mav bur11,
To for loo late I pliu k*d ho fate,
Ami do (he evil know:
You fay die fruit was plm k*d by me ;
Then TP turn hack die blow:
For w!ten the good fruit I hiought forth,
Men hung him on the tree;
And if I ’ve children now of worth
I ’ll turn it back on lie.
Now to he clear the ferpent here
Is now the lie 1 mean:
And let their lk-l/.ehub appear:
I'll mock the fons of men,
Uunlefs they’ll come, and will perform
The miracles that were wrought
By Relzebub they did maintain;
For fo the ferpent taught.
Vain fiinplc man to lay his plan,
For rcafon they had none ;
The type of He let mortals fee,
The brazen ferpent come.
Now
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
( 5 l )
Now I ’ll explain the my fiery
They did him fo condemn :
For as a ferpent on the tree,
You know they nail'd him up :
In brazen confidence to be,
A ferpen^in their thought.
The fpirit fpeaking in the woman lhews how men
always deftroyed the good fruit in every age, from
the blood of righteous Abel lo that of the apodles,
prophets, and martyrs; and now it is jult the fame.
O fimple and unwife! to think an impoiior would dif-
cover her fhame. If there was one deceit in me, the
very way I have ordered all to be done mud difeover
my arts, if I had any. What profit could it be for me
to fay you mull deal with me as you would with an im­
poiior, to go to the bottom of every truth? What ad­
vantage to me is your coming from London, and other
parts o f the kingdom, to clear my innocence; that I
have publilhed no cunningly devifed fable; but made
known to you the coming of our Lord Jefus Chrill?
and told you that when you meet together in his name
the fpirit of wifdom and underllanding (hall be given
you ? now if I had not llrong grounds to judge this
calling was from the Lord, I mud be a knave, and a
fool:— for I might have publilhed without faying it
mull be proved by every truth. But by the manner
in which I have publilhed and writen to you all, if I
am an impoiior you mud find it out: for you mud
deal with an honed woman as with a knave. If you
are carelefs how you believe me, no man will be-
.lieve you. I am forry the Rev. Mr. M------has dif­
fered the Devil to have the advantage over him, to
put his hand to the plough and draw back. Such
men I wilh to be prefent, to go to the bottom, that I
might clear my innocence before you all. As to fear­
ing the Bifhop in fuch a caufe as this, they that think,
fo mud think him a knave and fool, as they are. I
have already written to the Bifhop of ------, and he
never delired me to Hop my hand. I wrote lad chrid.
A 2 mas
Digitized by )L.ooQle
mas to the chancellor and archdeacon, and three other
minifters, faying, if they would prove the writings
were not of the Lord I would give it up; but they
were filent: not knowing what to judge. Now if this
prove of any fpirit that is not of Cod, every man o f
fenfe mult give you credit for your wifdom, to l'earch
to the bottom of what moll men of fenfe are at a lofs
to find out. They that judge it from the devil marvel
at his words, and they that judge it from myfelf mar­
vel that I have not Itudied away mv fenies; as they
lay I have fenfe enough to make myielf mazed. Now
all thel’c con fufed thoughts of men will be cleared up
by your coining: for I lhall affuredlv know then by
what fpirit 1 write: and if I find it is not o f the
Lord I will never puhlilh another book for the whole
woild. As to my gains by writing, people have erred
there: for I have fullered great lofs thereby:— but
this I do not value. The will of the Lord be done in
me, and by m e: and if it be not of God, your coming
will prevent my faying the Lord faith if he hath not
fpoken. If it he of Cod, it will be as the Rev. Mr.
J*------laid, to the laving of the nation from utter ruin.
Fatal are the. judgments pronounced againjl this nation,
i f troche, righteous men could not be found to fearch out
the hidden myjlery. But now I mull come to publilh-
ing the letters. Your letters, and your fon’s, which I
received this day, made me enquire in prayer: and I
was ordered to return you this anfwer— there is no­
thing hid but what mult he made known. •The letter
l lent you, with the names of the minifters I had
written to, mull go in print, perfect as 1 lent them,
with every man’s name in full. I will anfwer myfelf
for tlut aflair. It is the command of the fpirit I writp
by. Let them prove it is not from the Lord if they
can. The full letter I fent them in 1796, of the war,
will prove the truth.
As to Mrs. Bruce’s letters, if you fear men will
think it pride and vain glory in you to publilh them,
leave them to me: for I fear no man. I fhall print
what
C 5® )
Digitized by Google
Hop that, without they could prove my writings were
not from the Lord; which no man hath vet.donc.
I am, & c. JO A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
To the Rev. T homas W e b s t e r .
S I have put in print a mytiery about my bro­
ther, I fhall now give you the fenfe of it. In
1792 my brothers and biters being all againlt me on
account of my writings, I left vifiting them. My
brother Jofcph, feeing the ttrangenefs of my refent-
ment, faid, he did not know me; as he judged me o f
a temper to forgive any injury or affront offered me.
After that he went to Briftol, ami was married, and
fettled there. In 1798 I was ordered to go there, to
make known my prophecies; but did not know my
brother was there until a few weeks before I went.
When I ca^ne to Briftol I took lodgings, and went
to my brother’s wife in the market, and made myfelf
known to her. She faid my brother was coming into
town in the afternoon; as they lived about a mile
out o f town. I afked her to come with my broiher,
and drink tea with me; but defired her not to let my
brother know it was I : fhe promifed {he would not,
and kept her word; and told my brother they were
going to vifit a ftranger. He was quite furprifed to
find me the ftranger when he faw me, and faid it was
only the week before he thought all his brothers and
filters had forfaken him; as he had written to my
filter half a year before; and as to me, he thought
.me too much offended ever to write to him, and my
filter neglefted anfwering his letter; and now to his
furprife I had fent for him. He defired me to give up
my lodgings, and come to his houfe. I accepted of
his offer, and went to his houfe,find Itaid half a year.
I made known my prophecies to Mr. Brown, a book-
R ev. Sin, Exeter, Nov. 22, t8oi.
feller
Digitized by Google v
feller at Briftol; as he wi ll knew me, and my father
and mother, when his parents lived at Honiton. Some
months’after M r. Edgar, a young gentleman (of whofe
mother he rented his gardens) came to my brother
at Whitehall, and afked if he hrtcl not a tiller that
was a prophetefs? my brother aniwered, No. T he
gentleman laid Mr. Brown told him that he'had.
My brother anfweted it was a family at Getfom, nearly
the fame name, but not his filler: the gentleman laid
then Mr. Brown had told him wrong. When I came
in the evening, my brother told me what had palled.
1 told him he had finned in what he had done, in tel­
ling a falfehood : if he was alhamed ofmy prophecies
he might have aniwered, he had a filler whofe head
in 1792 had been filled with fome Orange ideas o f
prophecies, and file judged herfelf vifited by the
(pint of the I.ord: and though he, and all his bro­
thers and filters had tried to perfuade her out o f
it, they could not prevail. 11c might have faid with
rny filler Caiter, 1 might as well perfuade a tree that
is falling to Hand, as perfuade her out of*hcr prophe­
cies. If you wiih to know what grounds fhe has for
this IIrung belief, 1 will introduce you to my filler,
if you think proper. You may be a better judge o f
prophecies than I am. I . told my brother it he had
laid this he would have afcled wifely, and Mr. Edgar
would be his friend, but now he would be his ene­
my* This was at a time the gentlemen in Briftol had
put out public papers, that they would wager 300/. to
one, there would be a king on the French throne in
*799’ bY that lt10nth
> which I think was O ftobcr; I
then laid, if Mr. Edgar had faith to believe my pro­
phecies be might gain the 300/. for tI would wager
3000/. if I had it, no king would be there by the time.
My brother's wife laid to him, what lifter faith is a
wifer anfwerthan what ye n made; and had you fpoke
in that manner you would not have dilgraced your-
ielf; and Mr. Edgar might judge for himfelf, if he
thought
( 54 )
Digitized by Google
thought proper. My brother faid certainly it was a
wifer and better anfwer than he made; but he did not
think o f it to fpeak in that manner: and was now
forry for what he had done: but the young Mr. Ed­
gar was too worthy a gentleman to be his enemy. I
told him it was in vain to trult to a man whofe heart
was not influenced by the Lord; and Mr. Edgar
would not, as my brother had provoked the Lord
againd him. My brother faid he was lorry for what
he had done, and hoped he {hould be forgiven. But
now I fhall come to the purpofe. The gardens my
brother rented o f Mrs. Edgar had been fo beggared
out by the lad tenant, and fo over-run, and eat out
with weeds, that the ground he gave 8/. an acre for
did not pay him for Iced and labour; fo he was the
rent out of pocket, and was obliged to give the gar­
dens up, paying the rent home to the lad quarter, and
to leave the fruit trees and bufhes that he had bought in
the garden; which colt him 30/. for the lad quarter’s
rent. I told my brother he acted wrong, that he did
not go to Mrs. Edgar, to know iflhe would take them
for rent. I f fhe would not he would take them away.
My brother anfwered he fhould offend Mr. Edgar if
he d id ; that therefore he would leave it to the ho­
nour of the young gentleman. I told him.he might be
deceived, and he could not claim them after he left
them: and he was liable to be arreded for the lad
quarter’s rent; but my brother was confident in the
young Mr. Edgar, who would, know the value he left
was more than the rent, and would not fee him hurt.
So I left my brother at chridmas, and foon after I
received a letter from his wife, that Mrs. Edgar had
arreded my brother, and thrown him into prifon:
'that fhe went to the young Mr, Edgar, and he re­
filled to hear her, faying it was his mothet’s bufinefs,
and he fhould have nothing to fay about it. 1 he gen­
tlemen ofBri'dol, of the humane fociety, went'to Mrs.
Edgar in my brother’s behalf, but fhe would make no
ailow-
( 55 )
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
allowance for what was left; as he could not take therfi
away: he fhould abide in prifon till the debt was paid*
So the humane fociety paid one.part, and my filler
Carter the other part, to free him from prifon. So
iny prophecies, I told him before, were fulfilled ii>
him. And you lee what it is for man to truft in man,
and make fldh his llay. Here I have given you a
Uiort account of my brother, as it is in print, that
you may know the myfiery. Other particulars I
lha'il lend to the other minillers, as 1 have not time to
enlarge any more for the prelent. Hut this letter I
mult beg yon will bring with you when you come
down, as every one mull bring his letter with him
that is fealed with three leaks. And I lhall be glad
to lee you; and am happy to lee the will of the Lord
is done in you, ami by you. Time prevents me
from lin ing any more at prefent.— I am, with the
grcatell relpetl, vour humble lervant.
JO A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
To the Rev. T. P. Folky.
R kv Sir, Exeter, Nov. 27, 1801.
IReceived your letter, with the books, and am
happy to hear your faith and love were fo great
for the'Lord, as to leave the fettling o f your worldly-
affairs to come and join with other minillers ana
fpiritual good men, to do the work o f the Lord,
and you will find your labour of love is not in vain.
The myltery is beyond every thought o f man; o f
your printing the one thoufand, and my printing five
thoufand, both done by command of the Lord, and
both books fealed together, which are to be had in
evcrlalting remembrance till time is no more. Now
I lhall tell you fome of the myltery o f the; difobedience
of man and woman Handing in remembrance againll
their children unborn, and now it is come to their
redemption, the perfeft obedience of men and wo­
men mult Itaud the fame; as man was' drawn in by
the
( 5« )
Digitized by Google
the woman to difobedience, fo he is brought back by
the woman to true obedience; and thefe two books
being fealed together free man from the fall o f crea­
tion in Adam, and bring them back to the redemp­
tion in Chrift. Now mark in the book there are twenty
four letters, printed by five men; and at the 24th
page ftands the letter to the woman, and there you
fee the names o f two women,— there is one myftery
beyond your difcernment. At the 39th page you
will fee Mrs. Bruce’s letter ftand again: and when the
vifitation o f the Lord came fo powerful to me in 1792,
I was in the 39th year of my age,— this is another
myftery you cannot find out: but weigh deep where
Mrs. Bruce’s letter ftands. Therefore it was not in the
power o f the Rev. Stanhope Bruce to prevent pub-
lifhing them, as he wrote to me he wifhed not to put
them in print, fearing the world might mock him;
but you fee when the Lord hath wife ends in a thing
he taketh away thefe foolifh fears. The decrees o f
the Lord are as firm as the heavens, and will ftand in
everlafting remembrance. What myfteries are fealed
up together, (and what is fealed on earth is fealed in .
heaven,) and are to ftand for ages unborn. For what
Mrs. Bruce has done her children will call her blef-
fed, and her hufband will praife her. Strength and
honor are in her clothing: for her ftrength of faith
came from the Lord, and her honor from the Molt
High: But 1 fear (he will hear the fcorn o f fools,
who will be moved with indignation at her, and fay
like her dream, Wbat is Mrs. Bruce, to be adorned
with fo much beauties of mind above another ? Have
not many women given great bounties of charity ?
I grant it: but here is a charity in faith given to the
Lord, judging all came from him, and for his honor
and glory Ihe bath done a. thing through ftrength o f
faith, that no woman, hath done; and now you fee
the ftrength of faith'fealed up together o f two women
and five men. Now look to the 5th page, and weigh
B it
C 57 )
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
it deep, and fee what light you can draw from it;— the
whole lent by a woman to five men. You fay the
fixth came too late, but you have not forgot the gen­
tleman’s name to infert it in the book. So you may
fay there are fix gentlemen and one woman, that I
have written to, and the woman Hands alone: but
not alone, as her hulhand and father Hand in print
with het. The two lu ll letters began with'the father,
— the two la(t end with the father. Mark how this
hook Hands, and then mark how the Bible Hands.
.1 hope Mrs. Bruce will not mind the mock o f fools :
for wife men and good men will ever love her, and
her name will be had in everlafiing remembrance.
And had not the Lord regarded her file would never
have been permitted to do what file has done. Her
letter lhews the Hrong temptations from the powers
of darknefs to baffle her faith: and now I know from
her dream, the powers of darknefs will work in the
minds of fools to (peak againll her: but happy are
we to be purler tiled for well doing. W e mull go
through evil report and good report, through honour
and dilhonour, if we will be followers of that which
is good. Was I to regard the icorn and mock o f
fools my life would be niiierable. But we niuft look
to the crown which is let before us; and I am happy',
Sir, for your lake, when you come to be weighed in
the balance, you are not found wanting,— your labour
o f love will not be in vain with the Lord. Happy
are thole that put their hand to the plough and ,c!o
not drawback. I cannot promilc you will not find
tninifiers in Exeter that will try to oppofe yourjudg-
ntent, if they can find any arguments to prove thefe
wiitings came from the D evil: but if they try to prove
they come from niv own bead, or any cunning devif-
ed fable o f man, they will loon find themfelves foiled:
,for they are as far beyond any human being, or the
power of man, as the miracles our Saviour wrought
were: fo the wrong belief o f one is juft as blind'as
the
( 58 )
Digitized by Google
the other; and I cannot t.ll which is the blindeft,
Jews or Gentiles, now they are put to the trial of
their faith and wifdorn. But the Lord hath conclud­
ed all men in unbelief, that all men may be laved.
Darknefs hath covered the earth, and grofs dark-
nefs the eyes o f the people. Wonderous things are
done amongll them : yet in feeing they cannot fee,
nor in hearing can they underhand. Therefore, ye
have need to put on the whole armour of G od; to
quit yourfelves like men and he llrong. When you
come to Exeter plcafe to bring this letter with you.—
I am, & c. & c. JO A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
( 59 )
To W i l l i a m S h a r p .
H on. Sir, Exeter, Dec. 1, 1801.
IReceived vour box and valuable prefcnts, the 28th
day o f November. On opening the box you
furprifcd us all, to lee your valuable prints. I found
the thoughts of my heart true;— you arc Hill con­
ferring favors on me, and though I am forry my
frien Is Ihould put themfelves to fuch expenfe as they
do for me,— yet the prefents are o f luch a nature
tint 1 am compelled to look on them with pleafurc
and delight;— therefore mull return you my warmeft
thanks for your kind love, and the honour you have
done me, in Ihewing your love to God, which I value
you more for than a thoufand prefents. Thus is the
truth of my words verified:— The Lord would go
from heart to heart, as oil goeth from vcirel to veffd.
I fliall now come to the purpofc of the prints. T
think I told you, in my laft letter, what you was do­
ing was the will of the Lord; and that the glafs mult
appear and fee as face to face;, and as in a glafs dark­
ly we may fee face to face. I fliall now come to the
myltery of your prints, and give you the full expla­
nation when I have the honour and happinel* o f fee­
ing you at Exeter. But now I lhall give it in part,
B 2 . and
Digitized by Google
( 6o )
and begin with the Virgin Mary, and the heavenly
dear Child, whale beauty I admire; and now the time
is come to call his birth-day ftrong to our remem­
brances. When we refle6l on the birth-day o f our
Saviour, we are called together in his name to judge
the world in him, and by him, and through him. It
was ten years ago, that very day, when the vifita-
tion of the Lord came to me in a Itrange manner.
Let all men look on the heavenly dear Child in the
arms of his mother,— Let them view him ih the hands
of men, with the thorns planted on his head, and fee
if they can marvel at his love to woman! View
him in the arms of women, view him in the hands
o f men, and fee how his countenance is there dif-
figurcd! O, foolilh and fimplc men ! if thefe thorns
arc not planted on the ferpent’s head, they muft now
be planted on the heads of men. The Lord inclined
your heart to let this lively pitlure before mankind,
engraved in luch likenels as I have in my fixth book
let all before you. Oh! what a day! Oh! what a
meeting will his birth day be now unto man ! Mar­
vel not if you fee mankind plant all thefe thorns on
my head if they can. Now I (hall come to your
pi&ure that you faid was not worth a frame. Did
you fay it for me to pay you a compliment? For I
will not barely rely on my own judgment,— I thought
it extraordinary well done; but better judges than
I am, have faid the fame; and I (hall make fome
•remarks on its having no frame. I am forry to fay,
that an honeft worthy and upright good man is.fcarce
thought worth a frame in thefe days; and we bad
need of a candle and lantern to find hiin out: for they
are hid in the dark from the world; and it is the
candle of the Lord mufl find them out; and this can­
dle the world laugh at, as they did at hi n. But I {hall
here drop this fubjeft for the prefent. On looking
on Mr. Brothers’ and feeing my own face, I ,was
deeply Jlruck. I admire his innocence, and pity
bis
Digitized by ooQle
( 6i )
his bufferings; but hope the time is at hand for his
deliverance. I fhall give you a further explanation
o f this hereafter, and come to the myftery o f printing
my books. I make no doubt of your hearing of the
letter I fent to the Rev. Mr. Bruce, how the Rev.
. Mr. P- - ........was offended at my printing his name,
and blamed your judgment to think it was the
command of the Lord. I told him if the minifters
in London were fools, the minifters in Exeter were
****** ; if I was wrong, why had they not told me
fo when I appealed to them, and faid the curfe of God
would fall on the city for the minitter’s negled ? I f I
was led by a wrong Ipirit they had never told me fo
when I appealed to them, and offered to give it up to
the judgment of four minifters, laft Chriftmas, if they
could prove the writings were not from the Lord.
But Mr. P— ———’s anger was greatly heated by his
name being made fo public tlnoughout the book,
and affirmed it was the Devil that ordered me to do
it. It is fruitlefs to pen what I have buffered by the
anger of Mr. P .....; and weighing the condutl o f
all the minifters together in Exeter, I fbould judge
there was no religion at all in minifters, was it not for
the fake o f thofe few who have written to me. When
you come to Exeter I fhall lay the copies of all letters
I have fent them before you, and then judge between
men and me. But fhould they begin to touch your
.honour I will fhame all that fhame you, confound all
■’ that confound you, by the letters I have fent them.
Now I fhall come to the myftery of the names being
printed, every man’s name in full as they (land;— it
is for the fake o f the fealed book; for every man’s
name mutt be found in that book. Every man’sjudg­
ment, every man’s conduQ, muft Hand" in the fealed
books: for I muft feal the fix together. The five I
have printed,, and your book o f letters difcover the .
name o f the v hole. So it would be fatal for man was
I to blot out any o f their names; and you have done
wifely
Digitized by b o o g i e
wifely in printhig your names in full. It matters not
if you blot out all your names in the books you fell
before the time; but every man’s name muft appear
hereafter;— fo it is not a fin to blot out Mr. P-— —’s
name in the books that arc fold before the time: but I
do not villi you to blot out his name in all, nor fell
all, that fume may appear hereafter perfect as they
vere firIt printed. I lhall not difpolc of many o f
mine, till after C'lnillmas.
[’The above letter was not concluded but was laid
by, and on December 1801, it was continued with
paitiet:lars*of little ronlequence, when, after men­
tioning the accommodation that was provided, delir-
ing her friends to heat Kxeter fome days before the
time, which they gladly complied with, Ihc concludes
thus:]
I need not remind you the twelve are not all mi-
nillers. W e will fettle about printing the letters when
you come to Kxeter: but Mr. Btilby, I hope, will
take care of his letter, as that mull go in print, and
true you’ll find the words; there is no more wifdom
in man then there was in the clock that flruck fb long.
So you mull have laic in yourfolf, or you would be
carried away by every wind that blows. I muft con­
clude, though I have a thoufund things to fay, but
not time to mention one of them.
I am, with the greateft refpefct, your greatly obli­
ged and humble llrvant,
JO A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
To the Rov. T. P. Foley,
R ev. S ir, Exeter, Dec. it, 1801.
IReceived your kind tetter, and did not anfwer it
then, as you was gone into the. country. You
will hear from the Rev. Mr. Bruce, that the Rev.
Mr. P--------- was offended at. his name being made
‘ - fo
( 6 a )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
( 63 )
16 public; and I find he has wrote to the printer,
though I told him it was my fault: for they had done
it by my command as from the Lord. Mr. P-------
feemed heated and laid it was the order ofthe Devil. It
is fruitlefs to attempt to pen what I felt on account of
his anger. “ This is the beginning of forroxo, but the end
is notyet.’ * Be not miftaken, my brethren, concern­
ing the fiery trial, which is the trial of all your faith.
1 muft beg you to weigh deep the 174th page, and
judge for yourfelves. Be not like the dilcipies o f
old, when they faw the truth of our Saviour’s words,
they were afraid and fled; as not underflanding the
dangers they were to go through: and I fear this has
been your cafe. Have you difeerned deeply the1
trial would be great, and different paffions would
arife in men ? So your faith, courage, and, patience,
and paffions mufl be tried,—you muft go through evil re­
port and good report, through honour and difhonour, as
counted fools, yet making many wife. I have told
you my trial would be great, yet knew not what
would happen to make it fo ;— but he that fpoke the
words knew what would happen to make it fo; and
my obeying the commands of the Lord, to have the
names o f minifters published, hath kindled the flames
already;— the fhadow is begun, the fubftance, I ex­
pert, will follow. I have felt the feverett blow from
Mr. P--------- 1 ever did from any one in my life, as
it was not temporal but fpiritual. This went near my
heart, and I well knew the powers of darknefs prel-
fed hard on him or me. I was at firft jealous of
my.'elf, whether I had been wrong'led in giving the
order ; and fpent three days in the greateft agony of
heart and foul that heart could ever feel before I
received Mr. Bruces anfwer ; and then he confefTed
what hfe had done was in fpirit of anger on my pub-
lifhing his name. This gave me peace o f mind for
myfelf: but I muft fay, I feel for him j as I know in
ray writings he is fpoken o f as a man greatly to be •
bleftcd
Digitized by Google
bleffed, if he goes through to fearch out the truth:
but fatal are the judgment* pronounced againft him
if he draws back through unbelief. Thefe promifes
and threatenings Hand in my writings concerning
him; and now I feel for him as he is afraid of the
difpleafure of men: and thefe fears will never gain a
man honour in the fight o f God. And this is my fear
for him, as it was faid to me, for fome years agone,
a Judas he (hould be to me, if he do me deny, no
comfort in this world he’ll have, and tremble for to
die. Thefe threatenings and much more I lent him
for years pall, and now I find his fears begin, fear­
ing the difpleafure of men. Should he fall through
unbelief, and any thing fatal follow him, I ihall be
rnifcrable about him. It is remarkable how it (lands
in my writings between him and me. Great are the
blellings if he perfeveres; great are the threatenings
if he draws back. O h ! may the Lord keep him in
the hour of temptation! For I believe that men and
devils prefs hard upon him : for he told me, men
had mocked him on paying attention to my writings:
But if we fear the moclc of fools, we never (hall be fit
lervants of the Lord. His anger againft me,jin forbid
ding me from the facrament, and ordering his name
o be blotted out of the book, makes my foul tremble
for him: for deep is the myftery of that book : as I
was ordered to feal up one of each thoufand, and
your one makes the fixth thoufand, wherein it is now
•laid to me, that is the meaning of the book of life— the
perfeft obedience of the man and woman fealed to­
gether. And you will fee the explanation of the laft
chapter of the Revelations ift the 231ft page, in a let­
ter addreffed to a minifter ; which I was ordered to
fend him in Auguft : but fomething prevented my
fending it then, but I have fent it him now;— for
different paflions are burning in my bread, which are
love and anger. The Lord keep him and me. His
. faying I was led by the Devil provoked me to wrath
againft
( 64 )
Digitized by Google
againft the minifters in Exeter, when I thought of alt
the letters I had fent them, year after year, that they
would weigh them deep, and tell me from what fpirit
they judged it came; but after their filence to all
my letters and no.w to find fault, and blame the mi­
nifters that aft like chrijlians to come to the bottom
of every truth, to know from whence this wonderful
revelation comes; which they themfelves ought to
have done; and for that ncgleB fatal was the judgment
pronounced againlt the minifters:— if the fword o f
the fpirit did not begin as foon as the fword of the
war fhould end, fatal would it be for minifters, judg­
ing me to be led wrong, and not trying to convince
me. For they were condemned, in the manner fol­
lowing ;
( «5 )
Is this the way my flock is fed,
Left to the fhepherds care?
The wolf to drag them in the pit
And left to perifti there.—
Then who my anger now fhall blame,
I f it (hould heat and burn?
And like, the gofpel, fay to all,
T o England I (hall turn.
This gofpel was on the fall, ** Think, not theft Gali­
leans wereJinners above all. becaufe they fuffered thefe
things ? Ifay untoyou, nay.” In this manner I wrote
a letter to Archdeacon *******, for fome years paft ;
as he had kept filence to the humblelt of letters, I was
then ordered to write him a warm reproof; and all the
letters I have fent to minifters muft now be brought
forward. You fay you are but three minifters.—
Then know there are three that bear record in heaven:
and you three fhepherds muft bear record upon •
earth. Chrift compares himfelf to a fhepherd, that
careth for his fheep,— then now awake my fhep­
herds, faith the Lord, and put you on the whole
armour of God,— quit yourfelves like men, and be
ftrong. For know when the promifes o f God are
C made
Digitized by Google
r ee )
made great, he requires 1'omething great in men to
go through. You need not be fearful of getting the
twelve. Confidcr how many are foaled up. It
never Hood but fix minillers in my fealed writings
of the twelve. I know not how that miftake came,
to call them all minifters, when they were not. I
have written you a few things to judge for your-
felves; that you may not be foiled when you come to
Exeter, if you find fame of thcfe minillcrs thft are
fealed up try to oppofc yourjudgment. But this I can
allure you,— I can prove my writings have been true
for ten years pall. Then judge for yourfelves for the
time to come. What I fay unto you, I fay unto all.
Pleafe to bring this letter with you. And every one
mult bring his letter that has been fealed up with three
feals. I lhould be glad to have my books and let­
ters that arc printed made as public as polfible. If
you elude to conceal your own names till after, you
J»ay„ by doing as you have done for Mr. P ■ — ;
they were to be pi inti d on account of the fealed
book. All the m nillcrs names in Exeter nluft ftand
as printed except Mr. P ---------’s, as they have kept
filcnce before fo let them keep filence now; or ap­
pear to anfwer for themfelves, why they luffered a
woman to fay the Lord faith, if they thought he ne­
ver has fpoken; and why they fuffered fin upon their
brethren to do this great wickednefs, $nd fin againft
( od. If they judged fo, they ought to condemns
and if they judged it of God, they ought to obey.—
Therefore their mouths muft be Hopped, and all their
tongues mull be filent. None but Mr. P ....... Bhye
room to Ipeak.
1 am, with the greateft re'fpeft,
your humble fervant,
JO A N N A SO U T H C O T T .
For the Rev. Thos. P. Foley,\
Ji&ned with threefeals. / ^
Digitized by G o o g l e
To M r . W il s o H.
S ir , Exeter, December 16, 1801.
IReceived a letter from Mr. Bruce, wherein he en­
quired if you come to judge for yourfelf, whether
it was to be one of the twelve? I am told to return
yo u this anfwer: there are thirteen fealed up, to whom
I was ordered to fend the three feals: for no man can
be judged one of the twelve without them. And now:
I am ordered to fend you the three feals with thefe
words, the feven Itars are come to fourteen. But
who will fall if you do come I know not. But as you
w rote before the book was fealed, I was ordered to
write your name in it-; and as Mr. Bruce wrote of
your coming, I was ordered to fend you the feals, as
one o f the twelve, if you did come; for that feal dif-
covers the twelve. But fome will fall if you do ftand.*
There is a great blefling promifed to the twelve: for
it was faid to me, when they were firft mentioned.—
Here is the myftery ,in thel'e twelve men ; for of the
earth they are the firft redeemed; and their leaves
lhall be for the healing of the nations. That means
their writings and the teftimony they will bear of the
truth;— for ye know not what is before you,* I lhall
be happy to fee you if you can com e; and I have
•lhewed you the blefting is great. But time will not
give me leave to fay much for the prelent, as I have
a great deal to do in a little time. I am, with the
greateft refpe£t, your fincere friend and well wilher,
JO A N N A SO U T H C O T T .
I f you come, pleafe to bring this letter with you.
( *7 )
* It is extraordinary Mr. Bafil Bruce died the2 6 tb, at midnight,
ten days after this letter was wrote, who was one'of the fourteen here
mentioned, at the fame hour his worthy father fet out on his journey
to Exeter, and received an accpunt of his Ton’s death when at Exe­
ter. It is alfo foretold that another of her children will Ihortly
die.
C a To
Digitized by Google
To the Rev. T. P. Foley.
R ev. S ir, Exeter, Jan. 27, 1802.
IHave fent you a pair of gloves, as I was ordered,
being a token of love on account o f my father's
death, who died the 2ill of January: which you know
was compared to the fecond coming of Chrift. ■ And
it is laid to me, as the gloves are for the hand, fo this
is a fign unto you the hand of the Lord is in it; and
as clofe as a glove is to your hand, fo the fpirit o f
the Lord will he upon you when the writings are
proved: lo I wifh you to keep them till the time.
Now I beg you will weigh my letters to Mrs. Bruce,
how Mr. Bruce’s death was compared to the death o f
Chriftj as the father and fon were compared to the
Father and Son in heaven: fo flic had fent the
mourning as a type of Chrift’s death. In my fecond
letter to her, my father’s death was compared to the
fecond coming of Chrift,— and as they were both
placed, fo they both fell. I Ihall give you a fhort
account of the manner of my father’s death. Laft
Tuefdav I received a letter that my father was dying,
and defired me to come immediately if I wiflied to
fee him alive: but I was ordered not to go before
the next day. I then got a Angle horfe, which was
much given to ftart, tne worft I ever rode: yet I
• purfued my journey with him, as being promifed the
Lord would prote61: me. When I cahic to my father
I thought he could not live till the clofe of the day;
but it came ftrong to me he would live till midnight,
or cock crowing: but I wa$ to be particular to mark
what hour he died. He had convuliion fits from eight
at night till cock crowing: fo we thought he could
not live till ten at night. As foon as the cock crew
my father’s arms fell down,, having been fighting be­
fore, and he fell into a fwcct fleep. At this we were all
altoniflied. At half paft four his breath ftopt, and I
faid to a woman my father was gone: and to our afto-
, nilhment
( $8 )
Digitized by Google
nifhment he was; as he died afleep. I mult remark to
you the wind was very hard that night, and fo con­
tinued the next day, coming home— it teemed like a
whirl-wind, which frightened the horfe fo that I thought
he would have thrown me. When I came within one
mile of Exeter, a whirl-wind rofe and fo frightened the
horfe that he took head in fuch a manner that had no
one been prefent to flop the horfe and take me off,
I fear 1 fhould have been much hurt. So I fent the
horfe home by a perfon and walked home myfelf.
I have written the above particulars as they are all
explained to me in the following manner: “ The
whirl-wind of the Lord is gone forth in greatfury—
a cutting whirl-wind, andfhall fa ll gricvoufy on the
heads of the mockers for the chain is broken which
bound thy father and the nation together. He has
been bound in forrow, and fo has your land— he
ftruggled hard in the war of death,, and fo will your
land ftruggle hard in the war of their death: for fa­
tal death they are bringing on themfelves. Before
I begin how it is explained in verfe, I fhall write
the words I penned for years agone: “ When thy
father takes his flight the ruflling winds Jhall come"
The particulars you will find in the box of writings I
delivered to my friends: and when my father died the
wind roared like thunder. Now I fhall write thefol-
lowing in verfe as fpokcn to me.
( 69 )
Mark and fee the myflery
O f all was faid before:
The ruflling wind I faid would come
When he did difappear.
And ruflling winds, you all will find,
To all are haflening on ;
For now the clay, you all fhall fee,
W ill like the cup become.*
And broke in twain you all (hall find,
For now I’ll break the whole,
And as the cedars in the way,
I ’ll make the lofty fall. +
? f' Theft marks I Jhall explain in another letter,— not room
HtV> nor time,
' So
Digitized by Google
So all together now compare,
And let thy thoughts go deep,
For I {hall mock the naked fouls,
That now my word do mock.
The flormy winds, they all lhall find
Shall furious fall on man:
My fword was furely in the wind
That unto thee did come.
When thou waft near, the city clear
Was then before thy view :
And as the horfc the fright did take
Men like the horfe will do.
For hcadftrong horfes men will come*
Their riders for to throw,
And this I fhew’d thee long agone*
And men compared thereto.
So in thy way, I now do fay,
The man did take thee olF; .
And in the way, I now* do fay,
As men fo much do feoff,
I ’ll ai\ for them, as thou didft come.
And leave the horfe alone:
There was no rider then thereon,
That fafelv was brought home.
Then fafely ncrc can man appear ?
For every type goes deep:
Thefe headllrong horfes I’ll ftrip bare—
No riders they (hall keep.
For full as bare lhall man appear,
As thou the horfe return’d:
lie was not worth the woman’s care,
Nor fit. to fet thereon.
And fo is man the fame become—
Their headftrong folly here :
They’d thiow the woman, every one,
That now do fee it fair.
And off they’ll come, as thou-haft done,
And fay the’ll walk alone’ ;
And not be carried by fuch men,
That ffart at every wind. /
The type is deep, the Ihadow great ;
And great will he the end :•
Therefore fuch horfe I did ordain,
To {hew thy ftarting friends^:
For juft like he, mankind I fee,
And fo they’re frightened here ;
And deep they’ll find the myftery*
The horfe returned bare.
Digitized by Googk
( 7l )
And full as bare they'll all appear, "
That now dart at thy word :
Amongft the ftones thou didft appear,
And there thy dream occured.
The filh is dead, thy father's fled,
The fountain mull appear;
Becaufe thou know ft the ferpent's tail *
Was furely faften’d there.
So it mull go on as ’tis begun—
The tumult and the war;
To bring the ferpent's trial on,
And let his death appear.
Becaufe jn one they both did hang :
But now the fifh is fled;
And man thoul'tfee, will aft like me,
And ftrike the ferpent dead.
Now I'll explain another fign—* \
The midnight did appear;
Thy father's death, thou thought*!!: to find,
That hour to fee it clear.
But it went on, to all be’t known,
Until the cock did crow ;
Then man relent, and did repent,
That he’d deny'd me fo. .
Then pity he did find in me,
And pity did appear :
Thy fatner loft his agonies,
When that that hour drew near*
He fell afleep, no more to weep,
Ever to wake in pain:
And near the dawning of the day,
He broke his flavifli chain.
So now the dawning of the day
Is haftening faft for all;
And in that hour thou didft fee
The heav'nly vifion fall. *
Now think upon the time that's paft,
I fay in ninety-two,
The day-light then did early burft,
And bring all to thy view,
. fo r in that hour, thou faw’ft my power—
The dawning of the day—-
Thou wak'ft from fleep, and then didft weep, .
Miftaken, thou didft fay,
That thou haft been, and nothing feen,
Andfotheugav'ftitup;
l told thee then the night was gone.
The day would hafty drop.
So
Digitized by Googk
So mark the fign, keep thou in mind,
The winter doth appear;
The chain is from your nation broke,
The firfl month in the year.
My friends did come, it mtifb be known,
My death did then appear ;
Becaufc in Bruce it furc was known,
And fo I brought it there.
Then clofe you fee, the words from mb,
Thy father I did place
My fccond coming for to be,
And fo the die was cafh
Then now fee clear, all types are here,
Thy uncle’s now applied,
That I with Norris now compare —
The field is open wide.
His fcnfes gone are judged by man :
Thy unde’s were the fame;
Then every fhadow now is come,
But who do know my nJtne ?
That I am the man, the prince become,
Whom they’ve exalted high.
But if they fodo worfltipman,
Their prince lhall furcly die.
Norris was wrong in what he’d done,
I tell thee in the end,
When he did fix thy bounds with man,
It was never my intent,
That thou fhould’ft come to join with man
As any earthly bride ;
I faid like Bruce thou niuft become,
Or Bruce become like thee.
In heaven are your hufbands gone—
Let men begin to fee ; -
The type is deep, the myfiery great,
You woincrt do appear
Without ahufband toproteft,
But I am your hufband here;
So now let fhc become like thee,
And fix her heart on high:
lo r l have taken all from Ihe,
That robs her heart from me:
Bccaule you two are in my view,
Your hearts to have them xoholc;
That fo on high your hearts may fly —
Your hufbands there do dwell.
( 7* )
Digitized by Google
So if the myftery you weigh deep*
The footfteps here are plain :
So Bruce’s wife no more may weep,
She’s juft like thee become,
No earthly hufband to enjoy,
And thou art juft the fame;
And all your hufbands I’ll deftroy,
That now defpife my name.
So all {hall fee the myftery ;
For Bruce is now in heaven ;
And file is perfeft now like thee—
My fpirit here is given
As much to thee, they all fhall fee,
As Bruce did chiife the bride :
And perfeft fo I did chufe thee,
And fo the field is wide.
The ftandard’s plain I fix’d for man,
That they may fee it clear;
That Bruce and thee alike mufl be—
In heaven your hufbands are.
And as the children there are gone,
So thine are gone the fame:
’ For he thy child I call’d as one—
Another I {hall nafne,
That fooil (hall fly and dwell on high,
Which fhortly thou wilt hear;—
Another child muft fhortly die,
To make the myft’ry clear.
This I’ll explain another time,
When thou haft feen the end.
For every myftery here goes deep,
The fhadows all are plain Y
’Tis fruitlefs for my friends to wreep,
That they fhall heaven gain*
Inrolled above they’ll fee my love,
And never-fading crown,
In happinefs that none can move, .
M y faithful friends are found*
So let thy trial now come on,
For I have mock’d all here :
But were thy writings in'thy hand,
They’d make thee to appear,
And bring them all to the guildhall,
And fix the jury there; *
And place fuch men to me unknown*
The crowns o f gold to wear,
T o be redeemed from hell and fin,
As I did not approve:
D
( 73 )
Digitized by Google
But
( 74 )
But now the vi&ory I {hall win,
And chufe the men I love.
Therefore this thing I did ordain,
To have my friends appear ;
And in their hands to give to them,
Tlicjrec of knowledge there,
To mock them all when they did call,
That-did thy words defpife:
But to my children I’ve gave all.—
And Solomon is wife. *
Anil wife they’ll fee the end to he.
Here I mult break oft'from this fubjefh After I
had written thefe lines, and many more, I was com­
pelled to go to the council chamber at the guildhall,
to meet the major, and fome other gentlemen, to an-
fwer for myfelf, in putting out the hand bills: as they
faid it was blafphemy. Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Sim«
monds were with me, and a gentleman, a friend of
mine, had fo contrived that a counfellor, Tomkin,
fliould he there, that I might not be taken any advan­
tage of by them. But the gentlemen behaved very
polite— they only faid I had wrote blafphemy on my
hand hills.— I allured them I had nol, and they heard
me with patience repeat the manner o f the vifitation to
ine in 1792. The mayor defiled me to produce my
writings at the guildhall, that they might know what
was hallening on— I told them they were gone
to * • * * * * * * * * The Mayor
defiled riie to put into his hand the. events of another
year.— My anfwer was, I would truft to none
but my friends. The gentlemen faid they knew not
by what fpirit I was infpired. I told them the reafon
of tny printing the bills was to clear myfelf from an
advertii'ement, the Rev. Mr. P— put in the paper,—
fo they caft the blame on him. I fhall fend more
particularly in my next. I am, & c.
JO A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
To the Rev. S t a n h o p e B r u c e .
R ev. Sut, Exeter Jan. 18, 1802.
I H ave fo many things to write I know not where
to begin; Exeter feems in confufion, in war one
againlt another, about me. The Rev. Mr. P----- *
yGoogle
Digitized by >
and I have been at war ever fince: as he fays he can
go into no company without being called a prophet,
and upbraided for fupporting my hand. He came
to Mr. Taylor, four days out of five, to entreat his
name to be blotted out of the book of letters. I wrote
him'the fatal confequences of his name being quite
blotted out. He then conlcntcd it.lhould Hand with
the minifters. I then promifed he (bould have it
blotted out every where except from the third page:
to this- we both agreed, and he defired your direction,
to write to you which I luppofe he has: he laid he
was worried out of the coffee-houfe. I then wrote
a letter to clear him, and fent it to the coffee-houfe,
o f which I have enclofcd a copy for your perufal.
But he then judged I was murdering his charaffer
by fo doing; I was fetting his houfe on fire, and kil­
ling hint, and entreated me to have the letter away
immediately. I complied with his requelt. He then
took a paper out of his pocket, and defired me to fign
it, to clear him in the face of the world, by his put­
ting it in the newfpaper: but Mr. Taylor difputed
with him: as he never faid it w
ras an evil fpirit before
I printed his name: but my anf'wer was, as he faid fo
now, I would fign my name to oblige him: but
gravely anfwered him, if he advertifed I fhould like-
wife : as I had been ordered fo to do before. As foon
as the advertifement was public many thought I had
given up to Mr. P ----- ’s judgment. I then had a
thoufand hand bills printed, to difperfc in the city,
fome of which I have enclofcd to you, which I hops
you will difperfc amongfl my friends. You have not
wrote me whether the Rev. M r. Foley has left London
or not, but he is at liberty to go when he pleafes: for
I have a great work to do in Exeter before I come
to London. All that now is happening is the truth
of my writings. I mull beg to know how Mrs. Bruce
is, and fhould be hap^y to receive a line from her
hand. I hope fhe will not let the fhort reparation of
D s time
( 75 )
Digitized by Google
time from herhufband in this lifpblaftall her happinefs:
but know they will meet again in glory; and look upon
it only parted as friends part to crofs the ocean. You
will finilh your courfe with joy for ending in the faith
that Abraham began. So let not a family fo highly
favoured of God give way to fruitlefs forrow, becaufe
the Lord has parted you for a while— you will go to
him, but he cannot come to you. You will pleafe to
fend the directions where all my friends are difperfed:
for they and I have a *** to kindle before we meet
to fcal the peace. Deep'is the myllcrv of Mr. Nor­
ris: I fuppofe you have fecit his judgment, and my
anfwers to you all. But I have deeper myilcries lie
behind. I have written my letter on various fubjecls,
as I have not time to go through any thing regular.
I {hall now give you the advertiiement which Mr. P,
put in the paper.
(T O T H E PU B LIC)
“ To prevent any mifreprefentation of the Rev.M r.
P ------’s opinion of me or my writings, I think it ne-
ceflary thus publicly to acknowledge, that he ufed
every argument of reafon and religion to convince
me that my prctcnfions to prophecy were falfe, that
, I was influenced by a deluded imagination, by a de­
ranged flate of mind, or the evil fpirit, and that my
writings were full of blafphemy. T o contradiCl what­
ever may ever have been aliened to the contrary, I
fully make this public declaration.
JO A N N A SO U T H C Q T C 7 *
This is the advertifement which I hope you will
compare with the letter I fent to the coffee-houfe,
which he blamed. This is deeply explained to me
to reprefent the fall o f man, whp blamed the woman,
but did worfe himfelf. But this I (hall explain ano­
ther time, and give you part of the letter I fent to
Jiim yellerday.
C 76 )
Digitized by Google
(Copy of a Letter sent to the Rev. Mr. P ------.)
R e v . S ir, January 17, 1802.
A s you have paflcd your judgment on me and my
writings, as being from the devil, and I a deluded
woman drawn away by all his arts; forfaken of God,
and all that is good; following all the directions o f
the devil, and in perfect obedience to all his com-
mands for ten years pall; then I am loft in time,
and to all eternity. For by our own malters we muft
ftand or fall, and if the devil is mine I muft fall, and
none can pluck me out of his hand. Thus am I loft
if your judgment is true. But this judgment you
i>ever paft till the end of the laft year, to fav my wiit-
ings were from the devil; but always faid they were
not. This calls to my remembrance a letter I lent
you in 1801 at Chriftmas, that afflictions would follow
you bccaufe of your unbelief. Now you fay you
are afflicted in your family. Then if my writings are
from the devil, it is he that has afflicted you, becaufe
o f your unbelief of him. Now to remove that afflic­
tion I muft defirc you to remove the caufe: fo I beg
you will fend me back every letter I have fent you;
and every book you have of mine in your pofleffion —
let not my name abide in your houfe: have nothing
to do with the unfruitful works of darknefs: wafh
your hands in innocence, and fay to the world boldly,
you firlt tried to pluck me from the powers of dark­
nefs, but finding your attempt vain and fruitlefs, the
devil having too ftrong pofleffion of my mind and
heart, you could not pluck me out of his hand— now
you have given up your attempt, and return to me all
my deteftable letters and books: for fo they muft be
if they are from the devil. Now, fir, after your ad­
vertisement you cannot clear your character noi judg­
ment unlefs you comply with this requelt. Will a
religious minifter k-ep in his houfe the works of the
devil ?
( 77 )
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
devil? for fo you have publifhcd mine to be. You
are innocent of the blood of an unjuil woman—if it is
fo, I am the fool, ami mult be the full'erer, for tak­
ing fo much pains to pcriuade you that the fpirit of the
devil is the fpirit of the Lord. Oh what a curlV mult
fall upon my head if your judgment is true! have I
for fix years been wearying mvfelf with writing let­
ters to you. troubling o:hers to have them copied
out, that you nuy be aide to read them? have I (pent
inv time, pen, ink. and paper, to draw you into per­
dition with mvfelf, if I am drawn into perdition?
have 1 bv the di retdions of the devil gone to your
hcmle, when 1 bad rather have gone ten miles another
wav titan put mv foot within your doors?— for my
heart always tiembled, my legs always {hook when
ever I was ordered to go to you: lb I have fuffered
many things in vain, if they are vet in vain. But they
are not in vain to you if tliev are to m e: for you or [
mull fhine as the Hats in the firmament for ever, if
we do not make fhipwrcck of our faith, and a good
confcienee. So as your faith is llrong that my writ­
ings are from the devil, make no fhipwrcck of that
faith, to keep hack one of my letters, and I (hall not
trouble you any more. So do not fay I am {he that
troubles Ifrael, I only trouble you for mine own.
Render to Ctrlar the things that are Csefars, and un­
to (Jod the things that are God's. I mult conclude
with faying, I appealed to you as my judge: and I
fubmitted to your judgment, as Chrift did to Pilate's.
So what was done to him in the body is now done
again in the fpirit. Lor yc have crucified the Lord
afrefli, and put him again to an open Humic. So this
is my faith: two Iwords our Saviour laid were enough y
the one man drew againll him in Paradife, by calling
the blame on his Maker, which brought him on the
crofs; the other {word was for the woman, to cut
down the powers of darknefs; as {lie calt the blame
on the ferpent. And now thefe two fwords are pow­
erfully
( 78 )
Digitized by Google
crFully drawn by you and m e: and will you fay, with
the Jews of old, Chrill’s blood be on me and my chil­
dren ,'for I will draw my fword again!! him, that fatan
. m ay not be cut down P If fo, I fear for you, that you
will plunge the dagger back in your own heart in the
end, and find you have a God to deal with, and not
-a fimple woman. Here I have ended this letter to
M r. P------, and want to write one to the Rev. Mr.
F o ley, as I did not anlwer his lafl. I {ball write to
all friends foon, but have not time for the prefent.
Pleafe to give my greateff refpctl to all friends. I
m ull beg they will not forget the advertifement to be
put in the newfpaper. I am with refpeft to all,
JO A N N A SO U T H C O T T .
( Copy of a Letter to the Gentlemen ofthe Coffee-houfe.)
R ev. Sirs and Gentlemen, Exeter,Jan. 10, 1802.
As a prevailing report is among!! you in the coffee-
houfe, that the Rev. Mr. P------has ffrengthened my
hand in prophecies, I muff now beg to anfwcr for
myfelf. He was fo far from ffrengthening my hand
that he told me in 1796, if I did thefe things of myfelf
to fay, the Lord faith, if he hath not fpoken, I was
writing blafphemy, and bordering on the fin again!!
the Holy Ghoft. In this manner he has continued
ever fince, reafoning with me concerning the danger
I was in, if I was not clear my calling was of God,
which he could not fee. To convince him, I repeat­
edly put letters in his hands, informing him of what
would follow before; it came to pafs: and thefe truths
he only difputed might be my own fore-knowledge:
fo that he never ffrengthened my hand in one word of
prophecies in his life ; and only afted as all chriftian
miniIters ought to do, when they judge any one is
forging the name of the Lord. Had not my writings
been of God Mr. P— ’s wifdom and prudence would
have!fopt my hand for years agone; but when the Lord
doth trork there is no man can let; and my caking is
from
C 79 )
Digitized by Google
from on high. So Mr. P— mud have had more pdw*
er than the Moll High— if he could overthrow it.
What is of man will come to nothing; but what is o f
God no man can overthrow; and it is by a ftronger
power than man my writings have been carried on.
The world, the flcfh, and the devil have tried againft
me, but the power of God hath overcome all. Had
Mr. P— arted contrary to what he has'done, he muft
have arted contrary to the gofpcl of Chriit: for it is
written in the gofpcl that every miniller is to copy
after Chriit— to lend none empty {(Why, but give their
advice, as chriftian minifters, according to the beft
of their judgment: and this Mr. P------has always
done, as not believing the calling to be from God.
Hut this neglctl to me in other minifters proves the
truth of our Saviour’s words— the hireling careth not
for the Iheep; hccaufc he is an hireling. And fuch
our Saviour compared to dumb dogs that could not
bark. This is the rcafon affigned to me why the
judgments of God arc fo heavy upon our land. If
the miniliers pay no regard to the gofpcl how can the
heavers. I am forty the world has blamed Mr. P— ■.
Is a chriftian minifter to be mocked and defpifed for
paying re(pert to the laws of God and man? then
judge for yourfclvcs, if judgments follow us; fince
the laws of God and man arc thrown out of doors,
and they are blamed that pay refpert to them.
I am See. See.
JO A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
This is the letter I fent to the coffee-houfe.
( 8o )
To the Rev. S t a n h o p e B r u c e .
R ev. Sir, Exeter January 27, 180*.
YOU may be furprifed to receive a parcel from
me with gloves, which I have fent to my friends
as a token of love on account of my father’s death,
who
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
who departed this life the 21ft day of January; foon
after the death of your worthy fon. Perfect as
they were both placed, fo they both fell; weigh
deep the letters I fent to Mrs Bruce, and you will
there fee Mr. Bruce’s death was compared to the
death o f Chrift; and my father’s death to the fecond
coining of Chrift: but it was fpoken in myfteries that
forrow might not fill your hearts. In my 2d book,
ih the 54th page, it is written, Chrift would come
in glory as a lamb newly flain; and as a lamb your
worthy fon was flain. by all the arts of men and de­
vils, who fiudied IStow to poifon his mind. Laft Sun­
day was the firlt time I had ever the fortitude to hear
M r.B ruce’s letters read fince his death; and then Mr.
T aylor’s family was obliged to take them from one to
the other to read them; as tears flopped the utter­
ance o f their words. A gentleman prefent, that was
a friend of mine, faid, he never heard of fuch a wor­
thy man in his life; as he foretold his death in his
own letters. I {hall leave the particulars of our con-
verfation, and come to the purpofe of my father’s
death; which followed clofe after Mr. Bruce’s, per­
fect as they were placed, and perfeft as the Bible
Hands. For Chrift’s death was before his refurrec-
tion, and before his fecond coming, as a fign of his
fecond coming. I was ordered to fend the gloves to
you as a fure fign the hand of the Lord is in the
whole: and fo clofe as a glove is to your hand, fo
clofe will the fpirit of the Lord be upon you when
my writings are proved. So I have fent a pair to you,
Mrs. Bruce, Mr. and Mrs. Beecraft, (your fon and
daughter) the Rev. T . Webfter, Mr. Sharp, and
M r. Wilfon, as tokens o f love, and a fign to Mrs.
Bruce the hand of the Lord will proteft her fafe till
{he arrives at the refurre&ion of the juft, feated with
her happy hufband in the new Jerufalem, and the
glorious regions above, arrayed in white robes, fuch
as {lie fent to me. Deep was the type that her huf-
£ band
( 8i )
Digitized by Google
band was to be arrayed in robes of white in heaven,
while we wore the mourning for him on earth: and
though he be dead, by his letters he yet fpcaketh,
and may in the end turn many to rightcoufncfs, and
^ fhinc as the liars for evermoreJTNow 1 will tell you the
myflcry why he was chofen to judge of my writings,
and died at the time he Ihould have come to prove .
them, bccaufc every thing on earth mull bear a re-
fcmblanee to what is in heaven, that the feriptures
may be fulfilled, (fo what is foaled on earth is foaled
in heaven) to be a clear judge of what you was com­
ing to be a judge on earth: and what is loofed on
earth will be loofed in heaven, lie was then loofed
from the bitter pains of eternal death, and from all
the powers of darknels: and the time draws near
when von will be looled the lame hero upon the
earth: lor the church militant will loon join the
church triumphant; as he was joined with you and
lealed to the day of redemption, and his redemption
came that day fpiritual, and jour’s is battening on fall
fpiritual: for now 1 will tell you how it began by the
father and ended by the fon. While you was coming
in faith to prove the truth of Ohrid's peaceable king­
dom^ it ended with the fon being caught up to God
unto his throne; and knowing the promifes made to
me, now feeth face to face, without a veil between.
He is gone to plead the promifes before the Lord;
and to him will be given the key of the bottomlefs
pit: fo what begun by the fathers faith will be ended
by the Cons death, for the Lord will grant him his
petition, and give him his requclt. Thefe are my-
Itcrics I cannot fathom : but 1 write as it is indited to.
me by the fpirit. The following lines likewife tire
given to me by the fpirit in verl'e.
( 82 )
And by the fpirit now I’ll anfwer :
Heaven and earth agreed in one,.
To complete your full redemption:
lie's afeended to my throne.
Digitized by Google
nr
r
1 did leave my father’s glory,
To come down and dwell with men;
Myfleries I did lay before you.
Then return'd to heaven again.
To join with man on earth I came,
And then afccnd on high,
To join with angels Bruce is come,
And here's the myfiery.
For he’ll fulfil his father’s will,
And plead the promife there:
Thefe myfleries are beyond your (kill,
Now fee your Bibles clear,
That as a lamb was newlv (lain,
Man fure was (lain at firft;
When Satan to the woman came, .
And hell in rage did burfl:
And Abel’s blood has ever flood,
For vengeance to this day ;
And now I’ll make my promife good,
For Abel’s gone on high.
■* Abel he’ll be, you all (hall fee,
To gain the promife there,
As men on earth did join with me,
To bring my gofpel here.
So he (hall join the heavenly throng,
And they with him will join;
To have my glorious kingdom come;
And bring the peace to men. ,
So heaven and earth will join as one,
To make your blifs complete:
The martyrs ftahdbefore my throne,
And all with Bruce unite.
(
So all will fee a my fiery,
Elias mull appear:'
■ V For Bruce’s fpirit all will fee,
1 Defccnding in the air.
When I do come to refeue man,
And heaven and earth unite,
The trinity will join as one,
In whom I do delight.
That is with men I faid I ’d come— ■
Now fee the myft’ry clear.
That mjrdelight fhould be wih men ;
- And fo I fhall appear. —
This I ’ll explain another time,
But tell tnee of the moon;
There’s nothing done without a flgn,
The fhadows firft mull come.
E 2
( 8.3 )
u
Sa
Digitized by Google
C 8+ )
So muft appear the ftiadows there—*
The devil’s in the moon;
Or how could Satan To appear,
• For to he trodden down
Beneath your feet : the m) ft’ry ’$great ?
The moon is under there :
Then of what ufe could this produce,
(Now fee the liiyft'ry clear)
To have the moon beneath your feet,
If Satan was not there?
What to tread down ? The work was mine,
Could reaTon fo agree.
Did Satan not in it combine,
And fo to ticad down lie.
So now fee ch ai; the lign i- i}kmc,
O f Satan in the moon :
Beneath vom teet he mod appeal,
And like* tlu dull become*
Now von fro how every lign in placed in heaven,
and in earth, to fhow you plain it is the Devil
nuilt ho under your feet: which is laid the moon, and
the emblem of the devd is in the moon: but l fhall
drop this l’ubjcH for the preleut, as you muft fee it
clear, from the lign, it was meant the Devil ihould be
under her feet, though it is written the moon. I fhall
now come to the Rev. Mr. 1
J----- . It was not the
command of the Lord to me to blot out his name at
all,— hut as he daily pleaded the injuries it did him,
and wearied Mr. Taylor and me day after day, I
thought it no fin to blot it out where it flood fo pub­
lic ; as long as his name was not entirely blotted out.
So I Ihould give no offence to God or man. But you
are at liberty to do as you like. If you do not like to
Mot out any more, let it remain: and if he (hould
write to you on that fubjcfl, pleafe to return him this
aufwcr— you let it remain, being perfuaded fo to do.
Then you will confound him in his own words. For
when I wrote to him to return my letters, he went to
Mrs. Taylors, and faid he had burnt them. Mrs.
Taylor looked allonifhedat him. He faid he was per­
fuaded to it. Now if he follows perfuafions in doing
what
Digitized by Google
what I would not have done for 500/. then I have a
right to follow perfuafions the fame. W e are ftill at
war; you lhall hear from me again when it is ended.
Pleafe to give my duty to Mrs. Bruce, and prefent
the gloves unto her: and I lhall write to her as foon
. as I hear {he is better. It grieves me to the heart to
hear the forrows of her heart, and the pain of her
body; but if (he be well enough' to hear this letter
read, it mull give her heavenlyjoys, while {he is mixed
with earthly forrows. Pleafe to give my duty to Mr.
and Mrs. Beecraft, and fay the gloves are in token
. of love; which was the command of the Lord I ftiould
fend unto them. Had Mr. Bruce lived, he could not
have -been a man fo highly favoured of God as he is
by his death: for you know not the meaning o f our
Saviour's words, when he faid, “ YeJhallfce the-fon of
nan coming in the clouds, in power and great glory.”
This letter I'mu ft recommend to all my friends, as I
have not time to write to them for the prefent; but
.when I fend the books to London I hope to write to
all, and give the particulars of my father’s death, and
how it is explained; and how I was ordered to ap­
pear in the council chamber, to anfwer to my hand­
bills. But I muft fay they behaved exceeding'civil,
and faid they could not tell by what fpirit-I ‘was in-
fpired. You {hall hear more in my next. I am for-
ry I have not time to write to Mrs. D ix ; but if you
know her, pleafe to give my duty to her, and tell her
I lhall anfwer her letter, and fend it in the parcel
with the books. If you write before you hear from
me, pleafe to let me know if this be the Mrs. Field
that fent me the dreams. Pleafe to give my love to
the Rev. T . Webfter, Mr. Sharp, Mr. Wilfon, and
all my kind friends. I am forry I cannot write to '
them; but this muft include the whole.
J am, Sic. &c.
JO A N N A SO U T H C O T T .
( 85 )
Digitized by
/ Google
A C O M M U N ICA T IO N .
The following was explained to Joanna, on Sunday
the 4th day of July, 1802, in anfwcr to Mrs. Bee-
craft, who, on reading the 5th chapter of the Revela­
tions, laid, that the oth veife could allude onlv to our
Saviour, For thou wall fle.in, and had redeemed us
to Cod bv thv blood," iN
^c. This file judged was
differently explained in my writings; and it was now
explained to Joanna as follows:
Wiite out the parable of Moore and his fervant,
and I will explain the my Hew. 'Flic parable is as
follows: in ijoo I ient a letter with three feals to
the Rev. Archdeacon Moore, (in March) faying,
what harw !1 Ihould follow that year: but he was not
to break the feals till the eml of the \ear. W K n the
harvell was over, lome of her friends toic: the Arch­
deacon's leivant that the harxell had comepcifcil as
foretold in the letter to his mailer, and wiilied liio
mailer would break the feals tv) be convinced. The
fervant went home, and tried to perfuade his mailer
to open the lettet: but he at liril declined, and faid
lie was to keep it, and not break the leaks till the end
of the year. But his fervant did not leave off impor­
tuning his mailer till he granted him his lequelt, who
laid, as you folic it me lo much, I will break them:—
but liiuiihg he could not read them, I was informed
Ik lunnt them. Jhe following is the anfwcr of the
fpnii: 4<J will anfwcr, I will anfwcr thee. Perfetl
fo it is with Bruce and me:— he mult fblicit me, as
Moore s fn vaui did liis mailer, and I will grant him
his reguefl, as Moore did his fervant. But who
opined the leaks? not the fervant, hU the viajlcr.—
Pei fed fo it is with Bruce and tne:, tor Bruce and I
ai ajoined as Moore and his fervant.
For us the fludow doth appear,
In hiavcn the fubihmer now I'll clear.
For as bv Chapman* this was done,
In heaven by B ru ce it is the fam e.
* TheJervant'snamc. And
f 86 )
Digitized by Google
And as by Moore the feals were broke,
Juft fo by me it now is cut.
But as the hand he could not real,
Juft fo the whole is now decreed;
That none but I can now appear
To read the hand, and fhew it clear.
But as the flames the whole did burn,
Juft fo I fay the hearts of men
I will inflame, they all fhall fee,
In love or anger now to be.
For fuch as have no hearts to love,
I fay like Moore I'll furely prove;
Ana fay their hands I do not know,
And^ for the fire they all may go :
That is my anger fo fhall burn :
For now like Moore to all I'll come;
Becaufe my fervant doth appear.
Tftat I with Chapman now compare,
W ho with his mailer did prevail;
And Brudc’s words fhall never fail,
(I fay the fame) to influence me :
Like Moore and Chapman Til agree:
And fo my Bible I plac’d here,
(I mean to make the myft’rv clear;)
And fo that thing I did ordain,.
To fhew it to the fons of men :
And now the fons of men fhall fee
The likenefs is in Bruce and me.
So now men's anfvver thou muft gain,
I ’ll anfwer then the fons of men:
I f they fo Amply can appear,
To judge thy head all this could clear:
But how thefe things cou’dfl thou perform*
Llad I not order’d fhould be done,
For ends I knew which lay behind,
To bring the myfteries to mankind?
But now like Moore I fhall appear,
Thy hand they cannot read it here:
Without thy prefence ’twas in vain :
And now from Moore I’ll this explain.
For perfeft fo it is with me : •
I cannot come to read to ye;
For fo I fhall not now appear,
I tell thee I am juft like Moore :
And fo the things are in my hand,
I fay like Moore conceal’d do (land :
But as the likenefs doth appear,
In thy own htwcUhe truth I ’ll clear.
Digitized by Googk
The likenefs thou haft got below,
Thy hand like mine, they all (hall know,
Though I {hall never read thy hand,
No more than he did it command;
But yet I lay I’ll make it good,
And now to Moore I'll this allude*
lie did not lay that thou did'll lie,
Though lilencc he did keep that day*
And now I'll anlwer juft the lame,
My iilcnce proves the truth thou’il nam'd*
So now the mv(levies all may Ice:
I ’ve fhew'd the likenefs now from he.
For IVlcorc would loon confound thy hand,
If thou had11 lied he loon would fend
That no Inch letiers did appear;
. But he was lilem— man muft fear*
Here cntleth the letter which is to go in print, im«
mediately, perfect with the names as written. For if
men have already kept lilence, let them keep filence
lor ever, or appear to anfwcr for thcmfolves: and I am
ready to anfwcr for myfilf.
J O A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
A fecund anonymous letter from the fame perfon
has been received, but was not conveyed^ Joanna
until the 9th of July: and on the next morning T
h
ehad
the following anfwcr bv the fpiiit to thefe words—
they being part of that letter.
“ How is it that you dare fay if my deeds were
brought to light, I fhall be reproved? My deeds
will bear the invefiigation of the heavenlyfun-beam.
Again, I felt inclined to open my Bible. The firft
words that (truck me were thefe— And upon her
forehead was a name written, myfiery, Babylon the great,
the mother of harlots, and abominations of the earth.”
ToMeffrs. B r u c e , W e b s t e r , and F o l e y .
R ev. Sirs, July io, 1802.
IWas furprifed on the receipt of the anonymous
letter. Is it pollible for a man to be fo void o f
uuderitanding, real'on, and religion ? After reading
( 88 )
Digitized by Google
fay eighth book to be fo blind and ignorant, felf-con-
ceited, and confident? After hearing his letter read
in. the prefence of my friends, which caufed fome
diyerfion amongft us, feeing the old proverb was
verified,— « It is the way of fools to expofe their
folly:” — I went up Hairs, and was earneft in prayer,
that the Lord would anfwer it for his own honour and
great name’s fake ; asknowing with what confidence
he had taken in quellion the wifdom of the Moft
High. I was anfwered in the following manner—
which I was ordered to have put in print, with fouie
of the words in his letter, as I fhould be directed: but
not to fpend my time nor money, to wade my paper to
print fuch a long epifile of nonfenfe as he has written.
Here follows the anlwer:—
O proud, prefumptuous, vain, conceited, man;
void of reafon and religion! for though a fool is
bfuifed in the mortar, he will (till retain his folly.
He does not difccrn my Bible; and by fuch men will
thoufands be led to perdition. For while he fpeaks
great fwelling words of vanity, he allures through
much wantonnefs, through the lull of the flefh, thofe
that were clean efcaped from him. That meaneth, by
a wantonnefs of converfation, to find out whatfault
he can again!!: the words of God: and by that way
the words of the Lord are evil fpoken of. His re­
ligion is for ftrife and debate, and to finite with the
filt of wickednefs. Here is the pride of the heart,
and the luft of the eye: for his heart is lifted/up with
pride, and vain conceit, and his eye lufteth after va­
nity. He does not want tofearch out the truth: but
to cavil at every word he can: that the words of the
Lord may be evil fpoken of: and fuch were the Jew !
that crucified m e ; faying, this deceiver faid,he would
deftroy the temple, and in three days he would raife
it again. They did not look to the miraicles I wrought,
nor to the wondrous works which I performed, but
faid they were done by Beelzebub, the chief of the
F devils.
( 89 )
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
devils. And when they found one word to cavil at,
that word they took hold of to crucify me. Now*, I
tell tliee, the Gentiles are thefame. I ordained that
thing of thy father and Bruce to try the Gentiles, a)
I did the jews— and now I fee them like the Jews.
AW the truths in thy writings arc forgotten— the won­
drous manner they ate fpoken in is dclpifed; but if
they can find one word to cavil at, they are ready.
Now I tell thee plain this vox man that cavilled at
thee concerning thv father and Bruce, had he been
in my days he would have cavilled the lame, and laid,
I was a deceiver: fo /y fuck run, I lay, I was cruci­
fied; and now let fitch woi take cate: for if they
fav Inch temptations do not come front the Devil—-
then 1 anluer their own hearts are at enmity agaittll
God. Now let this boalling C'htiilian make his name
known; for this is mv anlwcr concerning him ; he is
o f his father, the Devil-'—,u:d his works hr dots. Ilis
heart that is lifted tip, is not right within hint; he. is
at etfmity again!! his God, however he has jollified
himfelf in thv light, he is defpifable i.i mine: he is a
liar, by denying what thou hall laid of thy father: he
is a proud vain boallcr, by felting himfelf up as a
God by the purenefs of his heart— that is like a nelt
o f unclean birds— who makes himfelf wifer titan his
Maker— and like the whited fepulchre, appears beau­
tiful without, but within is full of rotten bones, and
wi'l not come to the light, left his deeds fhould be
reproved, lie faith, thou dolt not know him ;— but
I that fearch the hearts and try the reins of the child­
ren o f men, do huaw what he is. And he lhall know
it is I, the Lord, that reprove him: for he is no doer
of th? law, but ajudge. And he fhall find I am his
judge, and I am thyjudge. The forrows o f thy heart,
I k'.cw, when I to'd thee thy’ father mult out-run the
me: I knew thy fears, and thy jealoufy, and how
h thou feareft to fay the Lords faith, if I had
:.o, b.oken. But I know thou wilt not contend with
thy
( 90 )
Digitized by Google
■ diy Maker, when I aflign myjvjl reafons why I fpeak
many things hard to be underitood, as it was of Bruce
and thy father. But this felf-righteous, confident
man hath braved the A lm igh ty to his face; and my
anger and indignation is kindled againft him. And
this is my command to thee and my dil’cipies,— that
this anfwer be put in print; and now I fhall anfwer
his words:—
Upon her head was written a name, myftery, and
here are myfteries great, that man fhould make him-
feif the mother o f harlots, and the abomination o f the
whole earth!— for lo I dircfited my Bible unto him!—
for out of his own mouth will I condemn him; for as
a harlot waiteth in the way to draw in and foil an up­
right man: fo he is lurking in the way to betray the
word of truth:— for his words are an abomination
unto m e ; but if he foileth my difciples, he cannot
foil his God. So now let his mouth be flopped, and
his tongue be blent: for he is the mother of harlots,
that is an abomination. But will he fay, a man can­
not be a mother? Then I anfwer the church can­
not be the bride. So now let this proud, vain, boafter
explain his m)jleries, and let this letter be put imme­
diately in print, with his felf-righteous confidence
Handing at the top. Now this is the anfwer to the
fecond anonymous letter. But how fhall I bring in
my kingdom to f'uch proud, prefumptuous, vain men,
as think themfelves wifer than their teachers, judging
they know every things and are blind and know no­
thing ? This I fhall anfwer more fully another time.
Rev. Sirs— This letter, by divine command, I was
ordered to put.immediately in print;— for men are
pulling down the day of vengeance upon their own
heads. In penning this letter I felt myfelf full o f the
fury of the Lord. But how can the creature dare to
contend with his C re a t or? I am loft in wonder
at the ignorance o f mankind, that pretend to wear
Cbrift’s livery, and who do the Devil’s drudgery—
F ft advocates
( 9l )
Digitized by Google
\
advocates for hell, and friends for the Devil. You
ihall have a clearer explanation to his letter hereafter.
I am, &c. &c. JO A N N A SO U TH C O TT .
( 92 )
To W i ll i am S h a r p .
I I on. S ir , Tu'tery Feb. 1, 1802.
I Propolcd aufwcring your lird Utter concerning
Mr. Norris, but tli.it 1 Hull leave for another
rppoMunity, and come to your lad letter, concerning
my l:\th hook. 1 dull write to you cxatPv as it
was anlwered to me fiom prayer,------ “ Whatever
mountains may be in the moon, or whatever figures
may there appear, SiU<u:'s feut is tlitre: therefore he
is calf d the Power of Paiknels, as the moon has
power to give light by night, but none by day : for
when the fun tiles, the light of the moon is gone : and
\\hut the Sun of Rightcouliicfs ariles with healing in
his wings, the powers of darknefs will he gone. The
prophet, St. John, did not underd uul the meaning
when he wrote the moon was under her feet, no
more than they umlerdood our Saviour's words, when
V
ie was looking at the beautiful buildings, and laid, I
will di drov this temple, and in thiee days I will raife
it up again: for which he was condemned: and fo
men condemn me for faying it is Satan that is meant,
Hull he under her feet; as it is written in the ferip-
tures, the moon. 'Phe firmament, (hows Cod’s handy
woik, and all that is there was placed by him. The
cartli and man were made by the Lord, and he had
pronounced all to be good; but, as the Devil inter­
fered with man to turn that good to evil; Id he in­
terfered in the firmament, to Ihine in darknefs: but
the darknefs comprehended it not— that all thefe
mountains mud be made a plain, and all thefe dark ap-
pcavatices tnud be done away. When the Lord begins
with power, to take the woman’s caufe in hand, whom
Satan’s arts at fird betrayed; then will the moon be
under her feet. The letters make it plain.
Digitized by C.ooQle
Man with the woman mud fubmit,
And take the M for man,
Then the two O O's you all will know,
The O for man is nrft:
The fecond O, you all {hall know,
Shall make the moon to burft.
So Til begin, and end with men,
And let the O ’s appear;
For the firft O to all is come,
And Satan’s O is near.
In heaven’s high court he firft was plac d,
And feated on a throne:
The firmament I fixed next,
And man I call’d my own.
But, Satan, he did find a way,
In both for to appear :
But when you fee the perfect day
You’ll find the Devil’s there.
As I have laid, be not mi fled,
You’ll find him in the moon,
And as the mountains there you fee,
So all muft tumble down.
When I do come to refeue man,
It all muft pafs away;
I faid I ’d make it all a nlain,
And all a plain fhalloe.
So ’tis in vain for to contend*
Satan’s beneath your feet:
I aik what ufe your crowns could be
To make your blifs complete,
To have the moon, or have the fun,
Beneath your feet to fall,
I f Satan’s ruin did not come,
How could I conquer all ? ^
To bring the mountains to a plain,
Which you allow are there ; ^
And in thefe mountains Satan reigns,
And fo you’re clouded here.
For mountains ftrong, hc’th been to ngan,
’ Which I (hall all deftroy ;
Butin the valley let them come,
Then man I will enjoy.
A valley’s low, you all {hall know,
Jehofaphat appear :
And in that valley let them come,
' And I’ll plead with them there.
So I ’ll contend, to plead with man;
But to my word Til Hand;
( 93 )
And all the mountain* in thcmocn
Are Satan's artful hand.
That he is there it doth appear,
And is a mountain llrong:
Men's minds he daily doth enfnarc,
And thousands build thereon.
Now I mult beg your attention to the Bible. I
faid I would gather men together at the valley of Je-
hofaphat-, and plead with them there: now a valley
is low, and let men become low and humble minded,
and I will plead with man: for now, he that humbles
himfclf lliall he exalted; but he that exalteth hitnfelf
fliall be abafed : for now I will throw down, and will
build up. All thefe mountains that are fecn in the
moon, Satan is in them. There is a avoild in the
moon, and in that world Satan dwells. But I have
laid the mountains (hall become a plain, and the bar­
ren mountains a fruitful held. Ye have all erred not
knowing the leiipiurcs. Now I (hall come to one
ci ror more of man, that is explained to me. Our
Saviour laid as Jonah was three days and three nights
in the whale's belly, lb lliall the (on of man be three
days and three nights in the heait of the earth: this
has been always undcrflood (by reverend divines) to
have be -n lulnllcd at our Saviour’s death; and I have
heard the Rev. Mr. P---- affirm it in his fermon it was
Jo ; as he was crucified on a Friday and rofe again
on the Sunday following, which was the third day.
Jlut I was told he erred in his judgment. From the
time our bluffed Lord was crucified on the Friday,
lie was in the fepulchre but part of that day: and the
angels came by night. 1oiled away the done, and took
him away before the morning on the third day. So
lie whs not in the fepulchre more than one whole day,
and one whole night— which denote his fecond com-
i;:g. For as Friday was flioitcncd in the day, and he
role from the fepulchre in the fecond night, before
the third day appeared, lo will the days be fhortened
before the 2000 years. The one Bands fure, which is
pad
( 94 )
Digitized by Google
pall already: but before the morning the ftones were
rolled away, and the feals broken. When they came
early in the morning he was not there, but was rifen.
O ! my friends deep is the myftery: the corner Hone
is rolled away, and the feals will be broken that are
I**# * # # * #4 y OU may fay of Mr. Bruce he is not
here, but is rifen. For as Ifaac was a type of Chrill
before his firlt coming, fo is Mr. Bruce before his
Mecond coming; for now cometh the end.') As Jonah
was three days and three nights in the whale’s belly
fo will the Son of Man be three days and three nights
in the heart of the earth. When the pillars of the hea­
vens will be Ihaken, and the foundation of the earth
will tremble, the fcas roar and make a great noife,
men’s hearts failing them for very trouble, becaufe they
have not known the vifitation of the Lord. And the"
reafon they do not know, is becaufe they will not know;
and all thefe mountains in the moon Satan lays be­
fore them. And all thefe mountains men will call to
fereen them from the prefence of the Lord, that now
defpife and mock his warning. So if you weigh my
letter deep, you will fee myfteries lay before you.
Confider my temptations were placed years for days,
then marvel not, if- Mr. Brothers’ imprifonment is
counted for years. A time, times, and half a time, a
myftery you cannot find out before my writings are
proved. Then every crooked path will be made ftraighc
before you. I {hall end my letter with a few parti­
culars o f Mr. Norris: he is a worthy good man in
himfelf, but under ftrong temptations when in Eveter,
but as the Devil could not complete his purpofes on
Job, before he had worked on his wife and friends to
complete his mifery : fo he worked o n ------ to com­
plete his: fo r------wrote me a letter himfelf, Tpeaking
the language of Job's wife, that any chriftian would
lhudder to read. Satan always works by inftruments:
and when he tempted the Lord o f life and glory in
the wilderiiefs, he foon entered the heart of Judas
( 95 )
Digitized by L , o o Q [ e
( s 5 )
and other men, to complete his deflgns. And this has
been the cafe of poor Mr. Norris, who fell .among
thieves. For I am truly convinced thefe men have no
delire for the glory of God and the ellablilhment of
his kingdom.—Their whole view is to the earthly
power of man. A fooli111 zeal without knowledge,
is like fire in the hands of a madman : and fo i s ------^
and thole men you mention; looking more to the
creature then the Creator; and are greater enemies ■
to Mr. Brothers then thole that put him in prii'on: for
they are provoking the Lord to bring judgments on
them(elves. But the other are like the children of
Ilrael, by Moles: who provoked the Lord to take
Moles from them and conceal his body, that they
might not worlhip him. And fuch madmen are Mr.
Brothers’ zealous friends: and was he lived to-mor­
row, and the Lord did not give him power to work
miracley, as they cxpcG, they would he the firIt to
condemn him. Such is the lierv zeal ofmen, that have
no rcalbn or religion in them ; and I do not care how
much they are my enemies: for bv my own mailer I
nutII Hand or fall. I fee the truth of my writings
battening on fall. 1 lhall write the particulars of
Mr. Norris in my next, to the Rev. Mr. Wcbller or
Mr. Willon, and then I lhall lend the particulars
concerning my father’s death.------ 1 limit conclude
with laying, pray for Mr. Norris, as you. know not
the uiyltery concerning him. Plealc to give my duty
to the Rev. S. Bruce, Rev. T . Webfter, Mr. Wil­
lon and all friends. I lhall write to all as loon as
pofliblc. I mult beg you will give them a light of
tins letter, for what ] fay unto one I lay unto all. If
they like to copy this letter,, I mult beg you will let
them.— I am, with the greatell relpcft, See. &c.
JOANN A SO u T H C O T T .
PiU N TED BY li. SPRAGG, 27, BOW -STREET, COVENT-GARDEN,
Hobeoh,
Sold by E. I- F o .1.0, No. 3, Broad-Court, I.ong-Acre; and Mr.W. Simmonds,
Gandy’s-Lauc, Exeter;— Price Nine-pence.
Digitized by Google
