{"name":"Animal Magnetism","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1801__winter___animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
ANIMAL MAGNETISM
HISTORY OF;
Its ORIGIN, PROGRESS, and PRESENT STATE
;
Its PRINCIPLES and SECRETS DISPLAYED,
AS DELIVERED BY
The Late Dr. D E M AI N A U D U C.
To which is Added,
DISSERTAl IONS
On the Dropfy; Spafms; Epileptic Fits; St. Vitus's Dance;
Gout; Rheuraatilm; and Conlumption
;
WITH UPWAKUS OF
One Hundred Cures and Cafes,
ALSO,
Advice to thofe who Vifit the Sick, with Recipes to
prevent Infeftion,
A DEFINITION OF
Sympathy; Antipathy; the EfFefts of the Imagination on
Pregnant Women ;
Nature; Hiflory ;
AND ON
The Refurre£lion of the Body,
BY GEORGE WINTER, M. D.
MEMBER OF THE LYCEUM MEDICAL SOCIETY, LONDON,
AND AUTHOR OF THE ELEMENTS OF AGRICULTURE.
Brlftol: Printed by GEORGE ROUTH.
LondonJ Sold by E. NEWBERRY, Corner of St, Paul's, & J. OTRIDGl^
in the Strand.
*
/Entered at Stationer's HalLJ
TO
THOMAS EVANS, Esct.
LLANGATTOCK, MONMOUTHSHIRE
;
SENIOR MAGISTRATE of that COUNTY.
Whofe Knowledge of the Law, and inflexible Integrity, are
comipin'd with the moft difinterefled Impartiality.
Whofc Zealous Patriotirm to his King and his Country,
is fully exemplified by his general Conduft.
Whofe confpicuous Virtues, and mofl exemplary Aftioas
THROUGH LIFE
CONSTITUTE THE SPLENDID PATTERN,
WORTHY
OF BEING IMITATED BY MANKIND.
THE FOLLOWINQ WORK,
IS,
RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED
By His very Humble Servant, and
moft AfFe6lionate Brother-in-Law
GEORGE WINTER.
Bristol, May, 1801.
ERRATA.
Page—Line—Read
57 1 ft Chorea.
95 17 my abfence from home about
a month.
122 13 advice to be obliterated.
175——2 Inftind:.
178 8 -third word, read lazy.
OMISSIONS,
OMISSIONS,
which ought to have been inferted as under,
viz.
After the Zth line in page 58, read
Mental difeafes fometimes arife from fpaf-
modic afFedtions, of v^^hich I have knovi^n
two inftances one of whom I cured about
6 years ago, and continues well.
After hlood in the I ith line page 106, read
when the corpulent are inclined to reduce
their corpulency ; walking, ringing a dumb
bell, or any other exercife whereby the whole
mufcular and nervous fyflems can be fully
exercifed, is more beneficial than riding.
—
But riding on horfeback is mofl: falubrious for
thofe of thin habits of bodies j for the rea-
fon inferted in the preceeding pages, &c.
Page
Page 145 line the ^tb after hat, read that I
might be indulged with a full view of his
countenance, by which I might be enabled
to difcover his difeafe.
«
INTRODUCTION.
the year 1778, the Author's very bad
state of health induced him to become a
pupil to a Professor of Chemistry, Natural
Philosophyy and Agriculture i the Instructions
he received were so pleasing, that he pro-
cured a chemical aparatus, and at his con-
venient hours has pradlised Chemistry ever
since.
The Author felt the strongest propen-
sity for Medical Studies ; soon after he be-
came a perpetual Student to two of the most
eminent Professors (Fellows of the Royal
College of Physicians,) in all the different
Sciences relative to Phyfic and Chemiflry
;
at the same time he became a Student to one
B of
2
of the most celebrated Anatomists in Lon-
don, for an acquirement of the knowledge
of the structure of the human frame. Those
regular instrudions in the different Medical
Sciences were then attended to, merely for
the benefit of the Author s own health, which
he deemed much more valuable thm any pro-
perty i]e possibly could p€)ssess. Soon after,
he commenced the pradlice of physic on
himself, his servants, and poor pt^ople in his
neighbourhood, and for upwards of twelve
years past, has apropriated certain hours
\ three days in the week to attend to poor peo-
ple, &c. Those who cculd afford to purchase
meaicines, he prescribed for, but to poor peo-
ple who could not afford, to such he gave me-
dicines. From the number of patients attend-
ing, his house frequently appeared more like-
a hospital, than a private dwelling-house, and
the great practice that he has had, in the
co!irse of seventeen years, in addition to his
regular medical instrucflions, enabled him to
cfFc6t the cures herein inserted, (which arc
only
3
only a very small part of what he has per-
formed.) But the limits of this work will
not permit his inserting the particular modes
of treatments and different formules, which
Jor the prtsent he is obliged to postpone to a
future period. The Author's hours of study
have generally been from five or six, to seven
or eight o'clock in the morning, and from
nine or ten, lo twelve and one o'clock at
night. The Author's thirst after knowledge
being never satiated, he had the curiosity of
even learning that science called Animal
Magnetism. The cures transcribed into this
work, are for the purpose of informing the
reader, that the Author could not cure, even,
one of those patients by Animal Magnetism,
but that such cures were effeded by the
powcis of medicines.
Medicines in the hands of the ienorant.
or smatterers in the knowledge thereof, have
too often proved similar to a keen edged
tool having cut a muscle or tendon, which
B 2 cannot
4
cannot be repaired. Hence, Medicine ought
to be exhibited only by the well-instruded
and experienced pradlitioner j agreeably to
the disease, age, and constitution, which
vary extremely, and ought to be most par-
ticularly attended to. The first step for re-
moving a disease, is to know its original
cause, and to attend stri(5tly to the effects
of the jMedicines exhibited, for no one me-
thod of cure whatever, will at all times
prove effectual, but the course must be
altered according to the difference of age and
constitution.
" The field is large in which we run our
career nor are the innumerable evils, with
which we are daily surrounded, to be re-
medied by any one method. The two great
pillars of Medicine are experience and rea-
son ; and he that has no confidence in the
latter, at least bids the fairer towards re-
lieving the sick, in proportion to his stock
of the former. But yet the business of our
pro-
5
profession requires the joint assistance of
both ; because a rational theory will teach
a man to apply his experimental knowledge
,to the various cases that occur."
—
Mead,
0'
HIS.
6
HISTORY OF
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ARAtELSUS Arecolus Philippus Theo-
phraftus Bombaftus de Hohenheim is to be
regarded as the inventor of the magnetical
lyftem. He was born at a village near Zu-
rich in Switzerland, in 1493, ^'^^
1 54 1. His profeffion was that of a phy-
iician, and he obtained great reputation by
the ufe of mercury and opium, medicines
that were unknown, or not employed by the
phyficians of thofc times. Van Helmont
was the immediate fucceflbr of Paracelfus in
the purfuit of the magnetical fcience, and
wrote an exprefs trcatife, De Magnetica Vul-
nerum Curatione. All the other perfons
enume-
History of Animal Magnetism, 7
enumerated, lived in the feventeenth century.
The p^iaiLipal authors were Paracelfus, Va^
Hehnont, Goclenius, Bur'gravius, LibaviuSj
Wirdi'g, Maxwell, Santanelli, Tentzel, Kir-
cher and Borel.
It is therefore certain, that the afTertions of
M. Mefmer, which are reprefented by him as
principles of his own, do not belong to him;
and that this theory, in the room of being an
attractive novelty, is an ancient fyflem,
abandoned by the learned near a century ago.
The fubjed of animal magnetifm excited
the extremefl attention in France, and had
for years filled their Journals and Mercures,
and had employed fome of their beil pens and
their brightefl: wits. By fome it had been
applauded as the greatefl; of philofophical dif-
coveries, and by others decried as the juggle
of an unprincipled impoflor.
M. Mefmer, who pretended to be the in-
ventor of the animal magnetifm, was a Ger-
B 4 man
8 History of Animal Magnetism.
man phyfician. The firfl: thing by which he
diflinguifhed himfelf, appears to have been
the publication of a Differtation upon the
Influence of the Stars on the Human Body,
printed at Vienna 1766, and publicly defen-
ded by him as a thefis in that univerfity. In
1774 father Hehl, a German philofopher,
flrongly recommended the ufe of the load-
flone in the art of medicine. M. Mefmer
became very early a convert to the principles
of this vmter, and adtually carried them into
pradice with diflinguifhed fuccefs. In the
midft however of his attention to the utility
of the loadftone, he was led to the adoption
of a new fet of principles, which he con-
ceived to be much more general in their ap-
plication and importance. In conformity to
thefe principles he laid afide the ule of the
loadftone, and proceeded with his cures in
the method which he afterwards publiflied to
the world. This apcftacy involved him in a
quarrel with father Hehl and the celebrated
Ingenhouz, by whom he had formerly been
patro-
4
History of Animal Magnetism. 9
patronized ; and as their credit in Vienna
was extremely high, and thiir exertions
againfl him indefatigable, his fyftem aimed
immediately funk into general difrepute.
To parry their oppofition he appealed in
1 776 to the Academy of Sciences at Berlin.
Here however his principles were rejected as
deftitute of foundation and unworthy the
fmalleft attention." Undifmayed by thefe
important mifcarriages, he made a progrefs
through feveral towns of Germany, ftill
pradilifing the methods of the animal magne-
tifm, and from time to time publifliing an
account of the cures he efFefted, which did
not fail to be followed by a detedlion from his
enemies. In the mean time, refolved, as it
fhould feem, if pofTiblc not to deprive his
country of the benefits of fo valuable a dif-
covery, he returned a fecond time to Vienna,
and made another elTay with no greater fuc-
cefs than the former. Decided in his con-
dud: by thefe uninterrupted defeats, he kft
Germany and arrived at Paris in the begin-
B 5 nijig
lo History of Animal Magnetism.
mug of the year 1778, where he met with
gre.uer fucccfs than ellevvhere.
M. Mefmer was from the firft delirous of
Submitting his fyftem to the examination of
the faculty of medicine ; but he would not
fubmit to a regular and authentic committee
appointed for that purpofe, apprehenfive as
he faid of the baleful eifeds of the foirit of
fcciety. This exception occafioned a mif-
underftanding between him and the faculty,
and the examination was never made.
In the mean time the new fyflem \vas by
no means deditute of enemies. Some of the
firft pens in France were drawn to oppofe it,
and among others that of M. Thouret, re-
gent'phyfician of the faculty. At length it
was thought to delerve the attention of go-
vernment, and a committee, partly phyficians,
and partly members of the royal academy of
fcicnces, with doctor Benjamin Franklin at
their head, were appointed to examine it.
M. Mefmer refufed to have any communi-
cation
History of Animal Magnetism, 1
1
cation with thefe gentlemen ; but M. Def-
lon, the mofl confiderable of his pupils, con-
fented to difclofe to them his principles, and
aflift them in their inquiries.
The commi'Tioners having convinced
themfelves, that the animal magnetic fluid is
capable of being p erceived by none of our
fenfes, and had nu adion either upon them-
felves or upon the fuhj<'j(!n:s of their fcveral
experiments ; being aflhrcd, that the touches
and comprefiions employed in its application
rarely occafioned favourable changes in the
animal oeconomy, and that the impreflions
thus made are always hurtful to the imagi-
nation; in fine, having demonllrated by de-
ciflve experiments, that the imagination
without the magnetifm t^rodaces convulfions,
and that the magnetifm, wi hout the imagi-
nation produces nothing ; they conckidcd
with an unanimous voice refpedHng the exif-
tence and the utility of the magnetifm, th:<t
the exigence of the fluid is abfolutely dcfli-
tude
I
1 2 History of Animal Magnetism^
tude of proof, that the fluid having no exif-
tence can confequently have no ufe, that the
violent fy mptoms obferved in the public pro-
cefs are to be afcribed to the compreflion, to
the imagination called into adlion, and to
that propenfity to mechanical imitation,
which leads us in fpite of ourfelves to the
repetition of what ilrikes our fenfes. And
at the fame time they think themfelves obli-
ged to add as an impor.;ant obfervation, that
the compre.Tions and the repeated ad:ion of '
the imagination employed in producing the
crifcs may be hurtful, that the fight of thefe
crifes is not lefs dangerous on account of that
imitation which nature feems to have impofed
upon us as a law, and that of confcquence
every public procefs, in which the means of
the animal magnetifm fhall be employed,
cannot fail in the end of producing the moft
pernicious efFeds.
The
History of Animal Magnetism. 1
3
The Names of the Commillioners*
Paris, the nth day of Auguft, 1784.
(Signed) B. Franklin,
Majault,
Le Roy,
Sallin,
Bailly,
D'Arcet,
De Bory,
guillotin,
Lavoisier."
Reports of Dr. Franklin, and the Commljjhners.
In the year 1788, Dr. De Mainauduc
arrived at Briftol, where he delivered lec-
tures on animal magnetifm, and was re-
ported to have cured difeafed pcrfons, e-ven
without the aid of medicines, ai^d of his
having the power of treating and cuiing
difeafed perlons at a didance; all which ap-
peared
-
4 History of Animal Magnetism.
peered to me to be very marvellous indeed,
and ridiculous in the greateft extreme. As I
had acquired the knowledge of phyfic by re-
gular inrtruftions and practice, 1 deemed
fuch reports to be only the refult of enthu-
iiaflic ideas, cheriQied and propogated by
a few deluded individuals, Simulated from
motives to ferve fome private particular
purpofcs; accordingly, I treated fuch reports
and the (cience with the greateft inexpref-
fible contempt, to every perfon, and at
every place where the fcience was men-
tioned : however, after -many folicitations,
I was prevailed upon to attend the Doc-
tor's treatments, which I muft confefs
appeared to me rather extraordinary. On
looking over the lift of Students that had
been, or then were under the Dodor's
tuition, it appeared that there was i Duke,
—
1 Dutchefs,-! Marchionefs,-2 Counteffes,-
1 Earl,— I Lord, -"3 Ladies,— i Bifhop, —
5
Right Honourable Gentlemen and Ladies,
—
2 Baronets,—7 Members of Parliament,— !
Clergy-
History of Animal Magnetism. 1
5
Clergyman,—2 Phyficians,-—7 Surgeons,
cxclulive of 92 Gentlemen and Ladies of
re Iped ability, in the whole 127.
Naturally fond of fludy, and my thirft
after knowledge being infatiabic, I alio was
allured to do myfelf the honour of adding my
name to the lift; and to inveftigate this
very extraordinary Science : and according
to the general terms, 1 pciid 25 Guineas to
the Uod:or, and 5 Guineas for the ufe of
the room; I alfo figned a bond for iccool.
and took an affidavit, that I would not
difcover the fecrets of the Science during ibe
Dotfors natural life.
I procured a paper book, &c. for the
purpofe of taking notes, as uiual wheii
attending ledlures ; to which the Dr. oh-
jeded; affigning it as a reafon, that fuch
notes might be loft, and by that means the
fcience, or at leafl part of it might be
difclofcd; to which regulation I was obli-
ged to comply. But however, as foon as
» each
i6 History cf Animal Magnetism,
each ledure was finidied, I immediately
retired, and entered minutes of fuch par-
ticulars as I then deemed to be mofl worthy
of attention. In the year 1789, Dr. Dc
Mainauduc repeated his courre of leiflurcs,
with additions, which 1 alfo regularly at-
tended. Hence, had an opportunity of
correcting and adding (uch information, as
I had before omitted, paffing over fuch
parts as appeared to me to be fuperfluous.
M. Deflon was a pupil of Mefmer's at Paris,
De Mainauduc was a pupil of Deflon's. In
the year 1785, Dr. De Mainauduc pub-
lifhed his propofals to the LaJies, for efta-
blifhing a Hygicine fociety, or fociety of
health, to be incorporated with that already
eftabli(hed at Paris. Dr. De Mainauduc was
a man-midwife, which may account for his
addrefiing the Ladies on the fubjeCt of this
becoming fajhionable practice ; and that when
twenty Ladies fhould fubfcribe 15 guineas
each, the day {hould be appointed for the
firft meeting at hi« houfe. The Dodor had
fuch fuccefs that he rofe his price to 25
guineas
I
History of Animal Magnetism. 1
7
guineas for one courfe, and 50 guineas to
perpetual Students. The original theory of
Mefmer's, was now laid afide. Dr, De
Mainauduc proceeded further into the
fcience, and added dignity to the Art ; for
Mefmer's method appeared to be fuper-
ftitious juggling in material things. Such
was the credulity of mankind, that amazing
numbers, myfelf included, were allured to
pradlife this new fcience, and attempt to
efFed; cures which could not be performed;
attempts by filly ridiculous geftures in put-
ting people to lleep, who did not want an
opiate; attempts to raife up hands off tables,
and other ufelefs actions (which I did not
perform) were fo extremely wanton and ab-
furd as moil; juftly to merit ccnfure. How-
ever, Magnetifers increafed in a moft incredi -
ble manner. Mefmer had taught his art to
upwards of 300 pupils; Deflon infl:ru(5ted
fo many hundreds, by which it was faid he
had cleared ioo,oooL Holloway, by his
lectures at 5 guineas each pupil, is faid to
C have
I
1 8 Hislory of Animal Magnetism.
have rcaliied 2,000]. Mifs Prefcott, Mrs.
Pratt, Mr, Loiuherbourg, Mr. Parker, and
Dr. Yeldal, were deemed to be (next to Dr.
De Malnauduc) the mod famous practi-
tioners and moll difinterefled, in treating
objed:3 who could not reward them for their
labours.
In the year 179c, I deem animal mag-
netifm to have been at its height : it was
credibly reported that 3,000 perfons, have
attended at one time, to get admiflion at
Mr. Loutherbourg's, at Hammerfmith; and
that fome perfons fold their tickets for,
from One, to Three guineas each.
FRIN'
19
PRINCIPI.ES OP THE SCIENCE,
AS PEMVERED EY
Dr. DE MAINAUDUC.
The earth is a globe furrounded by its
atmofphere ; it is conipofcd of fluids and
folids. That folids may by heat be converted
into fluids, and that fluids may by cold be
rendered folid, is well known. We will fup-
pole that the earth was foHd, and ccmpofed
of very minute particles of matter, of three
different forts, viz. earth, metals and ice: the
component parts of the earth and atmofphere,
are moil wonderfully arranged in ffratums,
which evidently appear in the fides of land
on the fea-coafls, and by digging deep pits;
alfo clouds in the atmofphere, paffing at
the fame time in contrary diredions. if
• the earth and atmofphere had continued in
C 2 a folid
20 Principles of Animal Magnctisvt.
a folid Aate, there would have been no
fluidity, for fluidity and heat are eflTentially
neceflfary to promote vegetation, for without
heat, thofe atoms could not have been fepa-
rated from each other, and which would
have continued in a contra<5led Hate by the
cold, and this, heat only could poflibly eifect.
Heat is produced by a(5lion and re-aclion
;
as it is increafed, the degree of heat is aug-
mented, by which the atoms of the heated
fubfl:ances are defl:royed and feparated from
each other, generating fire, flame and light;
but the ceffation of adtion and re-ad:ion,
again produces cold and folidity.
Boats employed in the whale fifhery, are
fet on. fire by the running out of the lines,
which is fixed to the harpoon. The natives
of India and other countries, produce fire by
rubbing two pieces of wood againfl: each
other. Flints and fteel generate luminous
globes of fire. Carriage wheels take fire,
when the axle trees arc not fufficiently
greafed to prevent fridion, &c. 5cc. This
Principles of Animal Magnetism. 2
This globe with others, fuch as the fun,
moon and flars, all of various fizes, are
placed by the Almighty Creator, in a bound-
lefs expance of atoms, all which are in
motion, and employed In their refpedlive
departments. And it is not improbable,
but this globe which we inhabit, may be a
luminary to the inhabitants of other globes
in the firmament. Whilfl: our globe polief-
fes a free* circulation, action and re-ai5licn is
employed in producing heat, for the prefer-
vation of fluidity and circulation, without
which, vegetation mufl: inevitably ceafe j
vegetables grow, and animals feed thereon.
Concluding that the earth became hrH:
fluid by a(fl:ion, re-a6tion and heat, we con-
ceive that the external limits of our atmof-
phere, are the bounds of the earth ; that tlie
atmofphere is compofed of atoms, fimilar in
their natures to the earth, but infinitely more
minute and delicate ; the earthy atoms arc
attracted by the heat of the fun, float in the
C 3 atmof-
2 2 Principles of Animal Magnetism.
atmofphere till florms of rain or condcnfed
vapours depofit theai on tiie earth, for the
wonderful purpofc of vegetation. Thofe
,
atoms are at all times in motion, that from
their fituation particuh&ly» fuch as floating
over low marfLy lands, which are generally
impure, as confining of animalcula?. genera-
ted on, or near flagnated waters, which are
inhaled by thofe who refide in fuch low fitu-
ation s, hence, become heteiopeneal to the
conflitution, and occaiion agues, fevers &c.
thus circumftanccd, ftorms of rain become
extremely ferviceable, for the difperfion or
purifying of fuch heterogeneal atmofphere.
The general atmofphere is that medium in
which human animal beings and vegetables
grow; all which are affemblages of thofe very
atoms which conftitute the earth and its at-
mofphere, and are not bodies compofed of
any other materials placed in that medium,
excepting fuch bodies as are altered in their
qualities by ad:ion, re-adion and heat, and
when mouldered into forms. A regular at-
tach"
Principles of Animal Ma^^netism. 2 3
iachmsnt univerfally exijh between all farUclcs
of a Ihiilar nature throughout the i^^b'Je uni-
ver/e, T^he mofs of atoms which compofs cur
globe or the earth, atmofphere, and inhabitants,
. levels all dijlin^ions amongfi them, and fully
co.-ifirrns, that an iiniverfai conneSiion does fub-
jy} between every particle and mafs of particles
contained within the bounds of that earth and
its atmofphere^ whether they are conceived to be
under the appellation of men, heafis, birds, ff.),
trees, or vegetables of any fpecies ; which are
all particles of the fame'original mafs, and are
all employed in regular rotation, m the work of
forming, nourijloing, decompofng, and of again
refufcitating jxich compofed bodies. The general
connection of atoms, are not dcilroyed by
the accumulation of fuch atoms into malTcrs,
but they retain the power of producing iiTi--
prejlions on each other, or of affediing flmi.-
lar atoms. h\\ forms compofed irf and of
any medium of particles, muft be inlluenccd
by whatever affefts that medium or f:;ts it ia
motion : for inihmce, take a quantity cf
C 4 fand.
24 Principks of Animal Magnetism.
fand, drop into different parts of it anygiim-
my folution, each of thefe drops will accu-
mulate a number of the grains into forms of
various (hapes, being an affemblage of atoms
into forms, which being in contadt with each
other, if one of the grains be put in motion,
it will ftrike thofe which furround it, which
will affed: the next, and the whole mafs,
muft accordingly become affeded.
Water, is alfo compofed of detatched
atoms, and the fiili it contains, are accumu-
lated maffes of atoms, generated from the
particles of that water. T^his water being
agitated, moft undoubtedly affedt the tifh,
fimilar to thunder difturbing, and caufing
eels to quit their original refidence, in quefl
of better fecurity, which is a circumftance
well known to fiOiermen, and the curious.
The mofb wonderful formation of the human
body, is compofed of pipes and pores, be-
yond conception, and formed of particles,
between which, the mofl: minute, and exten-
fiye
Principles of Animal Magnetism. 25
five porofity is admitted ; through which the
paflage of atoms and fluids of various de-
nominations, circulate in every dired:ion.
By a pore, we are to underftand, a fpace
formed between every two folid atoms in the
entire vegetating world, by the liquefixSlion
of the atom, which, when folid, filled up
that fpace. Pores were intended by the
Divine Creator, to allow, or admit the paf-
fage of fuperfluous fluids from every part of
the human bodv : for the obfl:ruction of
pores, muft terminate exiftance.
A bony foundation, formed of particles,
limits the fizc, and conflitutes the ground
work of his figure which is covered with fof-
ter fubflances, and by them moulded into
the mofl: beautiful fymmetry. Mufcles com-
pofed alfo out of atoms, pull the bones into
motion, all which is nouriihed by fluid
atoms, and from the proper aliments admit-
ted into the flomach. The component par-
ticles of man as an affemblage of atoms, will
appear
26 Prhicipks of Animal Mapiatism,
appe«nr to be extremely minute indeed. An
example of metallic minutenefs, will, I con-
ceive, fully convince us of it.
Let one fingle grahi of gold be melted
in one pound of Jitver; fuch grain will be
equally divided in the pound of filver, and if
fuch pound of filver be diffoivedin aquaefor-
tis, the 5,76pth part of pure gold will be
found at the bottom of the folution.
Mercury afTbrds another example. Quick-
filver divides fo minutely with different
fubilances by trituration, as to become invi-
ilble, and will pafs through the human
pores by fridion part will circulate with
the fluids, and pafs out again through the
pores, will whiten gold held in the mouth,
or filver or gold placed in the pockets ad>.
joining to the (kin,
Microfcopical experiments, from Lewen-
hock's obfcrvations, may give us an idea of
the porofity of animal flefh. One fquare or
cubic
Priiiaples of Animal Magnetism, 2 7
cubic inch of folid flefh exhibits two hun-
dred and fifty thourand orifices or blood-
veiTcIs, nine miUions of veffjJs called
Lymphatics, and three billions tv/o hun-
dred and forty-fuur millions of vcfifels, carry-
ing ferum only, without red particles ;
making in all, in that fquare inch of muf-
cular flcHi, three billions two hundred and
lifty millions two hundred and fifty thou-
fand orifices of pipes. This unlimited poro-
fity is wifely ordained to afford a free paffage
in every dired:ion for the atoms of the
general atmofphere; without which, the
fpaces between the atoms mud: clcfe, and
the fluids lofe all power of circulation.
Hence, adion mufl ceafe, heat mui'l become
de/troyed, and fatal decompofition mud
take place.
By the continual pafilng of the general
atmofphere through the fyllem, it is at all
times full of air. Sir Robert Boyle made
the fdlovv^ing experiments, by which he
found^
28 Principles of Animal Magnetism.
found, afiifted by the air pump, that, one
cubic inch of blood gave thirty-three inches
of air ; that chyle and milk contained ftill
a greater quantity : that one inch of fat
yielded eighteen inches of air : that bile
increafed in the exhaufted receiver, to ten
times its volume, and that faliva fwelled
to ten times its fize.
All bodies, whether animals or vegetables '
whilfl: living, are furrounded by their own pe-
culiar atmof]>here, at a certain diflance from
their bodies, which are full of pores; which
atmofphere compofe an elaflic covering ;
part is detached into the general atmofphere,
from whence is received back, a regular
fupply of atoms. It is well known, that
flowers, onions, &;c. &;c. as alfo animals,
and even minerals emit effluvias 3 for in-
ftance, brimftone emanates through the
pores of the body, tarnifhes filver in the
pockets, and lace on the cloathes : lead
proves injurious to painters and - plum-
bers.
Principles of Animal Magnetism. 29
bers, who frequently lofe the ufe of their
limbs. Hence, it appears that lead is
poifonous, and obftruccs the circulation in
the human body. Whereas, cooks, butchers,
and many other occupations, who live in
an atmofohcre faturated with nutritious fub-
fiances, they generally become corpulent,
and are healthy. A very great quantity of
air, mufl be continually pafhng, in and out
through the moft minute parts of the body,
and carry with it into the atmofphere, the
ufelefs and malignant particles, which if
obil:ru6led, mufl generate difeafe. By a pro-
per exertion, that atmofphere furrounding
the human body, may, by the volitio i of
the operator, when intended to relieve man-
kind of difeafe be attracted from, or ex-
tended to an unlimited diftance on any hu-
man being, that is known to be a valetudena-
rian, and the part of the body that is affedled;
for the porofity of the human body is fo
great, as to be adapted to receive fuch ema-
nations, as an experienced practitioner, may
pr u-
30 Principles cf Anijiial Magnetwfi.
prudently propel into the affedied parts of
the patient. All animate and inanimate be-
ings are attached to each other by fimilar
at'jms in their rerped:ive forms, and all thefe
attachments are formed by atmolpherical
conductors or nerves : for inftance, in ina-
jiimate fubftances, place two mufical inftru-
ments perfecStly in unifon, one at each end
of the room, and whatever is flruck on one
will be reported by the other, If the ktey
of A be touched on one inflrument, the
firing of A will vibrate on the other; if B
be touched on one inftrument, the other
imlrument will aifo vibrate B, and other fimi-
lar notes only will be anfwered. Hence, if
inanimate beings are fo afbonifhingly af-
fected by each other, how much lefs won-
derful is it, that man, an animate being,
(t ) whom the Creator of the whole uni-
verfe has given power over every thing that
moveth upon the face of the earth) ihould
afFed: another, when he intends doing good?
Sound is found to travel at the rate of a
(quarter
'
Principles of Animal Magnetism, 3
quarter of a mile in one fccond : in thunder-
ftorms, the ilaili explodes before the clap
commences. The flafh is conveyed to us at
the rate of one hundred and ninety thoufand
Aliiles in a fecond, but the thunder-ciap
moves on at the rate of thirteen miies in a
minute.
The velocity of a ball, fhot off from a
cannon, is at the rate of three miles in one
fecondJ but the Hght of the burning pow-
der is conveyed at the rate of one hun-
dred and ninety thoufand miies in ane
fecond.
The atmofplierical nerves of found arc
part of the auditory nerves of hearing in
mart.
The atmofpherical nerves of light fortii
the optic nerves of man and every animate
being in the univerfe. Mr: Boyle informs,
that a gentleman confined in a dungeon
where there was no light, began to difcover
light
32 Principles of Animal Magnetism.
lisht in a few weeks after his confinement,
o
which gradually increafed fo much, as to fee
rats run about. Many other perfons are re-
corded, for feeing and reading in the darkeft
nights, and that a man at Pila could fee well
in the darkefl nights, but very obfcurely by
day.
Animal magnetifm, has for its particular
principles, attention, intention and volition.
Attention, totally to abflrad: the thoughts
from every other idea whatever, than that of
attending to the difeafed part of the patient;
Intention and volition, are earnefl defires to
remove the difeafe, by a conftant intention
within you of doing good by a vigorous
exertion and the amazing powers of fympa-
thy, great operations may be effedled; which
is produced by the incorporation of the
atmofpheres, as each body has an atmof-
phere around it, they have a ftrongcr power
over each other, and the more they are
combined and exerted, the greater will
be
Principles of Amnal Magnetism. 33
be their force, and t],ie treatment the more
efFedual. The mental faculties in men, are
great beyond conception. It very frequently
happens, that when a perfon is fpoken of, he
is near, and foon appears, and when you
think on an abfent perfon, it frequently
happens, that fuch perfon is thinking on you;
fuch is the aftonifliing power of fympathy.
By the term treating, is meant a procefs
made ufc of by the operator to remove ob-
ftrudlions ; to reftore the natural adion and
re-a(5lion in any part of the body, and to
allift nature by imitating and re-eftablilliing
her own laws, when £he is become inade-
quate to the taik. The pores or velTels being
flopped, the fluids and general atmofphere
are prevented, a free circulation through the
alfedied part, hence, this flate of inadion,
occafioned by obftruftion, if not removed, is
a leading ilep to complete decompofition.
Let it be remembered, that the fluids and
folids of the human body continually fend
D forth
34 ' Principles of Animal Magnetism,
forth cmnniuions and atoms, all which are
fubjedl: to volition ; and by a fteady vigorous
exertion thereof, the well experienced opera-
tor is empowered to propel the particles ema-
nated from the operator's own body, and
force them againft and into the difeafed part
of the patient, and at any diflance.
It is evident to all medical men particular-
ly, that recent cafes, are much fooner re-
moved and cured, than thofe of long (land-
ing, which require, frequent long and judi-
cious treatment. Inexoerience, and diflur-
bances, divert the attention, which has been
an inducement to adopt fome mode of adion,
for the purpofe of ftri(Stly adhering to the
fubjeci we treat, hence, our hands are gene-
rally employed in the adl of treating, by
which our attention becomes more firmly
fixed, contributes to fapport this falutary in-
fluence, and render it irrefiftably powerful, fo
long only, as we perfifl: in vigorous exertions,
by combining the mufl fleady attention, and
regular
Principles of Animal Magnetism. 35
regufar intentioA to the mofl adtive volition,
and by concentrating the whole foul on the
part afflicted, theil the general laws of adlion
and re-adion wilT obey, and fooner or later,
according to the nature of the obflrud:ion,
the wifhed for purpofe will be effedled.
All forms fend forth atoms.
Ajtoms, indicate the fource of the dif-
eafe.
Atoms, are repelled and attraded by
volition.
Atoms, produce fenfations when attrac-
ted.
Atoms, vigoroufly propelled againft ob-
flrudtions remove them.
Atoms, are emanated from folids and
fluids.
Volition is the fpirit, that prefides over
atoms.
Animal nerves, are the inftruments of
volition.
Atmofpherical nerves, are the inflru-
ments of fenfations. Health
36 Principles of Animal Magnetism^
Health re-aflablifhed is obftrudtion re-
moved.
Difeafes are fimple and complex.
Simple difeafe is obftrudlion.
Complex difeafe is accumulated obflruc-
tion.
Treatment is a fpiritual procefs
And a motion of the hands, is an indi-
cation of attention, intention and vo-
lition.
The nerves arc the medium of fenfibility ;
in fome fubjedts they are weak and lax>
in others, they are flrong and elaftic. When
the body labours under difeafe of any kind,
the nervous fyflem muli be affedted, and the
fymptoms are agravated in fubjed:s whofe
nerves are inelaftic. When relaxed nerves
have loft their tone, or contractile powers
beyond the poflibility of re-inftatement, in
fuch cafe, they neither re-adl nor refift, the
formation of obftrudlions. Sometimes the
nerves are fo affedled as to curl up, and the
mufcles
Principles of Animal Magnetism. 37
mufcles to which they are conneded are con-
traded and pulled out of their natural atti-
tudes, which is termed fpafm, and a greater
decree of contraction bears the name of con-
vulfion. The pores are avenues to every part
of the body, and no internal part is deflitute
of nerves. To produce falutary effeds, the
fuggeftion muft be really pure and moral, and
the greateft attention muft be earneflly fixed
on the patient's difeafe, which when dif-
covered, we mull dired our whole attention
thereto hence, our emanations will by
means of the atmofpherical condudors, pur-
fue their courfe as diredej.
Human bodies in various refpeds, refem-
ble fpunges, and are adapted to receive fuch
emanations. When two human bodies are
fituated within each others atmofphere, the
emanations and atmofpherical atoms of each,
will be blended together, and received into
each others pores.
The
38 Principles of Animal Magnetism.
The particles emitted from difeafed per-
fons, are too minute to be difcovered by the
naked eye^ yet, the pcrfon v/ho receives
them foon becomes fenfible of their efFed:s,
which the practitioner mull: immediately
repel.
To difcover a patients difeafe fwithout
being informed thereofj by examination, the
examiner fhould ftand or fit in the moft eafy
pofition, oppofite to the body of the exa-
mined, and prefent the backs of his hands,
bent a little inwards ; he muft fteadily and
moft vigoroufly command the emanations
and atmofphere, attraded from that particu-
lar part, and attend to the impreffions pro-
duced thereon,—beginning with the head, and
treating the body regularly to the feet. Re-
courfe muft be had to the particles which
proceed from the examined perfon, for thofe
particles are fo immediately fubjedl to the
influence of combined fpiritual volition, that
they fometimes become mixed with the uni-
verfal
Principles of Animal Magnetism/ 39
verfal medium, give way to our exertions, to
puilue the courfe we dired: them, and con-
tinue unaltered, whilfl we exert our influence
over them.
Thofe emanating particles, are the inftru-
ments for conveying impreffions, which may
be attracted, repelled, or diredled by the com-
bined power of vigorous unremitted exer-
tion, attention, intention and volition. The
moft fteady and fixed attention is neceffary
for difcovering the difeafe, as the leaf! inat-
tention will entirely counterad: the examina-
tion and render it impoffible to acquire a
perfed knowledge of the difeafe. All other
ideas muft be detached from the examiner's
thoughts, excepting the objed attended to.
The examiner fbould be extremely delibe-
rate in giving his opinion, and fliould re-
peatedly examine the fame part, and not de-
cide till he has experienced the fenfatipns to
be fimilar after feveral trials, Philofophers
have compared the human body to an eledri-
D 4 cai
40 Principles of Animal Magnetism,
cal machine, the arms are fappofed to be the
condudors, the fingers the pointers, which
any perfon may experience by trying. Point
the fingers of either hand towards the pa-
tients heart, for fome tin:»e and you will
fcnfibly perceive the effcdls of eledricity on
the invalid's body ; but more particularly
attend to the difeafed part, for inflance, if
your patients arm or any other part of the
body is affeded with a rheumatic pain, which
is only an obftrudted circulation of the ani-
mal fluids ; to remove that obltrudion, let
your whole attention, intention and volition,
be earneflly fixed on the difeafed part fup-
poling that your patients arm is under the
prefTure of your hand, rub it down, even to
the tops of the fingers, to caufe a general cir-
culation of the arm. Continue this motion
in your own imagination, by very gently
moving your hand, which is only for the
purpofe of keeping your attention fixed, and
which you may do without expofure, by
putting your hand into your pocket, or under
a table,
Principles of Animal Magnetism. 4
a table, or in any manner, fo that the motion
thereof may not appear rediculous.
To be fuccefsful in your treatments, let
your mind be entirely abfl:rad:ed from every
other idea whatever excepting the fubjedt
you treat.
Secondly, Let your mind be filled with
sincere affeulion and benevolence, and let all the
energy of your foul be fixed on the relief of
your patient.
T^hirdly, Let there be a conftant intention
impreifed upon your mind ; be earneflly de-
firous to remove your patient's difeafc, and
generally fuccefs will follow.
In whatever cafe you operate, have
a proper confidence and do not be difcou-
raged; fhould your expectations be difap-
pointed at the firft treatment. Perfeverancc
js effentially necefiary ; it is praftice with
the inflrudlions given that will make the
operator
42 Principles of Animal Magnetism,
operator perfed; in the Science. The more
nervous and weak the conflitution, the fooner
will be the operator's effect produced.
Thofe are the principles of Dr. DeMainau-
duc'sledlures; however plaufible they may ap-
pear, I have not been able to fucceed in my ex-
pedlations. I have kept a regifter of up-
wards of one hundred cures, which I could
not effeiit by animal magnetifm, but were
performed by medicines.
DROPSY.
43
DROPSY.
TThE Dropsy is a preternatural colle<5tion
of watery humours, or an excels of fcrofities
in any part of the body. There are feveral
fpecies of dropfy.
Leuccphlegmatia or Anasarca, is tliat fpe-
cies when the accumulated lymph flagnates
in the cellular fyftem ; there is a foft inelaf-
tic fwelling or intumefcencc of part or the
whole body : Sometimes by Jong fianding
and negled, I have obferved that tiie abdo-
men became fo hardened and inelaflic to the
flrongeft compreffion, which admitted of no
impreffion.
Ascites^
44 Dropsy.
Ascites, when the water is collected in the
cavity of the abdomen, or when the water is
cxtravafatcd between the tendons of the tranf-
verfal mufcles of the abdomen, and the peri-
toneum.
Tympanites, is a flatulent tumor or fwel-
ling of the abdomen, very hard, equable and
permanent, whereby the fkin is ftretched fo
tight, when ftruck it gives a found like that
of a drum.
Hydrocephalus, is a preternatural diftention
of the head, to an uncommon fize, by a
ftagnation and extravafation of the lymph,
which when collected within fide of the
bones of the cranium, the hydrocephalus is
then termed internal ; (and which is feldom
to be met with, but in infants,) as it is ex-
ternal, when retained between the common
integuments and the cranium.
Hydrocele, is a dropfy, or colledlion of wa-
ter in the Scrotum, which fometimes grows
very
Dropsy. 45
very large, without pain, but exceeding
troubleiome to the patient.
Hydrops Uteri, or dropfy of the womb.
Dr. Mead obferved, "that there is nofoecics of
dropfy worfe than that of the Ovaries ia
women. For thefe organs firfh grow Schir-
rous, then they are inflamed, and at length
gangrened j they likewife fwell to a vafl fize,
being gradually Hiretched by the juices
ifiTuing out of their burfted lymphatics,
which are very numerous. Hence, this dif-
cafe is very feldom cured."
Hydrops teEiorh or hydrothoraxy dropfy of
the bread. This difeafe fliews itfelf by a
dyfpncea, pallid countenance, cedcmatous
fwelling of the feet, fmall quantity of urine,
difficulty of lying down, fudden and fponta-
neous roufing from fleep, with palpitation of
the heart, and water fludluating in the cheft.
Causes. —The Dropfy often times arifes
from drinking cold water, or very weak
liquors.
46 Dropsy.
liquors, particularly when the body is heated
by violent exercife, or from drinking ftrong
fpirituous liquors. It is a notorious obferva-
tion, that whoever drinks much, and doe»
not difcharge urine in proportion, may ex-
pert to encounter with a dropfy ere he dies
and that whoever attempts the cure of that
difeafe without diuretic medicines is by no
means properly equipped for his profeffion.
The want of proper exercife is frequently
the caufe of the dropfy. It is fometimes
occafioned by very poor living, fuch as
unwholefome food, and the ufe of vegetables
that do not produce nourifhment, alfo ob-
ftrudted perfpiration and circulation, that
generate an excefs of feroiities, which are
generally accumulated in the reticular or
cellular membranes. It fometimes pro-
ceeds from excefTive evacuations, fuch as
draftic purges too frequently repeated, and
particularly too copious bleedings. It is
frequently owing to an hereditary difpofition.
When application is made in time to an
experi-
Dropsy. 4 7
experienced phyfician, the dropfy may be
eafily and effedunlly cured.
The following are a few of the many drcp-
fical cafes which I have cured in the courfc
of my practice.
Miss Elizabeth JVarden, at Miss Pages,
milliner, in High-ftreet, Briftol, aged 23,
had been ill of a dropfical habit of body up-
wards of 2 years. On the 12th of June,
1791, file put herfelf under my care, when
fhe was afflid:ed with the dropfy (anasarca)
occ. within 3 months, I perfectly cured her,
—No relapfe.
Isabella Curtis, aged about 40, Seamftrefs,
Lamb-ftreet, near College-green, Briflol,
her difeafe the dropfy, (ascites) had been ill
upwards of 4 years, had taken great quanti-
ties of medicines, without elfedl, on the 24th
ofAuguft, 1791, flie applyed to me, and on
the 29th of November following, came to
return thanks, being cured.
Mrs.
48 Dropsy
Mrs, aged 38, wife of Mr. He?2ry Hatdtngf
fchool- mailer, St. George's, near the new
church, Kingfwood, Glocefterlhire ^ applyed
to me on the 22d of May, 1793, dropfy
(ascites) palpitation of the heart; a large
fwelling under the knee, extremely painful;
a great deflation from the head, of a very
fetid fmell.—On the ift of September fol-
lowing, came to return thanks, being pcr-
fedlly cured,
^nriy aged 33, wife of Ibomas Gary,
fhip-joyner. No. 19, Frog-Lane, Briftol
applyed to me on the 12th of June, 1794, a
dropfy [heucophlegmatiay^ 6 years, had taken
great quantities of medrcines ineffectually.
On Sept. 3d following, returned thanks,
cured. —No relapfe, and was perfedlly well
two months ago.
Mariahy aged 19, daughter of Mrs, Mar-
garet Price, Boar's-head yard, near College-
Green, Briftol I violent fpafms in her fide,
palpitation:
Dropsy. 4 9
palpitation of the heart, very coftive, tec.
dropfy fascitesJ had commenced j applycd
to me on the 22d of December, 1795, had
been ill
3 years, not able to do any work ;
on the 23d of February following, returned
thanks, perfedly cured.
Recent cases and cures,—Mrs, BurJ, a wi-
dow lady, aged upwards of 60, now living at
No. 8, Stoke's-Croft, Briftol ; fent for me on
Saturday night the 3d of June, 1799, her dif-
eafe the dropfy fascitesJ and gout ; her gouty
pains were fo extremely excruciating, that
I could clearly hear her groans at the bottom
of the flairs afcending to her room. Thefe
parts of both feet, from the articulations
containing the tendons of the extenfors of
the toes, were extremely enflamed and fwel-
Icd; her countenance pallid, lofs of appetite
and of fleep. The lady's legs and ancles
were alfo greatly fwelled and pitted, her
body was greatly extended by the water therein
contained, and as I conceived that one dif-
E eafc
5o' Dropsy.
cafe at one time was fully fufficient for a
patient to be informed of : Hence, I firft
attended to the gout ; the medicines that
jQie took gave her eafe, (agreeably to what
I informed her) within three hours after
being taken. On the Monday following I
attended the lady, who was perfectly free
from pains and able to walk a little. Find-
ing her pains alleviated fo well, I then ven-
tured to inform her of her other difeafe,
the dropsy, at which £he flartlcd ; however
I had taken care to provide the proper medi-
cines, and gave the necelTary dired:ions for
taking them : within one month after I per-
fedlly cured her of both difeafes, and at this
time flie enjoys an excellent flate of health,
has a florid complexion, and is as alert as any
young lady at the age of i6.
Mrs. Freeman, a widow, aged about 32,
at Mrs, Sbeppard's, Dighton-ftreet, Briftol,
applyed to me on the i6th July, 1799, her
difeafe a dropfy [dscites) \\2idi been ill upwards
of
Dropsy. 5 1
of 3 years, and had taken many medicines,
fhe foon found great benefit from the medi-
cfncs I prefcribed, but in lefs than 3 v/eeks
after (he applied, fhe was fent for to her
mother, who lived at Shrewlbury, lay dange-
rouflyill; flie took a fmall quantity of medicine
with her, which fhe found great benefit from,
^ but omitted fending for more.—On the 7th
of April laft, 1 8co, (he returned to Briftol
and again applyed to me, when her abdo-
men was diftended to a mofl enormous' fize,
and fo hard that the ftrongefl compreflion
could not make the leaft impreffion ; her
legs and feet were fwelled and pitted : fhe
alfo had the hemorrhoids, which with the
fwelling in her legs and feet I removed in
the courfe of about a month, but could not
reduce the fize of her body nor remove the
hardnefs. Although I had attended innumer-
able furgical operations, I could never ufe
the knife myfelf, therefore declined tapping
her ; in confequence, flic applyed to a fur-
geon, the mofl eminent in his profefTion,
E 2 pofielTed
52 Dropsy.
pofTelTed of the greateft humanity, and who
took every method to aleviate her pain.—On
Monday the 30th of June flie was tapped
between nine and ten quarts of a vifcid,
brownifh coloured matter was difcharged.
On Thurfday the loth of July, fhe was
again tapped, when 6 quarts was drawn off.
On Saturday the 2d of Auguft, (he burfted,
the quantity of vifcid humour was very great.
And on the Monday following, fhe died.
Hence, fhe fell a vidlim to her own impru-
dence, in difcontinuing the medicines fhe
had found fuch benefit from, for the purpofe
of attending her fick mother, which mufl be
acknowledged was extremely commendable;
yet, there was a duty fhe ought to have at-
tended to, that of re-eflablifhing her own
health.
Miss S. W, aged 17, of St. Augufline's
Parifh, Brlftol ; application was made to me
on the 5th of April lafl, (1800,) her difeafe
the dropfy, (ascites) occafioned from drink-
ing
Dropsy. 5 3
ing cold water, the firfl fymptoms appeared
about 13 months preceeding. Within 3
months I cured her, and fhe is now per-
fectly well.
r
E 3 SPASMODIC
54
32
SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS.
Spasmodic off'eBions, from the moft at-
tentive obfervations, I have experienced, that
fpafmodic affedlions are of different fpecies,
and arife from different caufes. When a muf-
cle becomes contracted, I deem it to be owing
to the want of a fufficient quantity of animal
fluid and vital heat tofeed and nourifli the muf-
cular fyftem, hence, lock'd-jaws, and what is
generally called cramp in the legs and thighs
originate,
Spasms, or cramp in the ftomach, fomc-
times arife from a vifcid humour or phlegm
being generated there, by eating fome fpe-
cies of vegetables, fuch as waxy potatoes,
carrots,
spasms. 5 5
carrots, mufhrooms, greens, and other forts
produced in the vegetable kingdom ; hjgh
iealbned and hard falted meats which do not
nourifli the conllitution, but often remain
a long time, particularly in cold flomachs;
hence are converted into a vifcid mucus,
which often times becomes a nidus for
w^orms that frequently feed upon the coats of
the flomach, when- they cannot be otherwife
nourifhed. Hence, I would recommend the
befhfrefh animalfood drefl in the plamefc man-
ner, with its own gravy freed from the fat,
which I deem to be the quintellencc of the
meat ; and fuch vegetables c?2fy as are the
eafiefl of digeftion, which the ftomach will
difcover ; as the conflitution is the grand
dictator, and by which wc ought to be
governed.
Spasms alfo, may fometimcs arife from a
vifcid mucus obflruding the junftion of the
bile with the chyle in the duodenum, hence
'
the bile produces jaundice. Sometimes the
E 4 bile
56 spasms^
bile is forced through the pylorus into the
ftopach, and difcharged at the mouth, but
*till fuch obftruclions are removed, fpafms
or pains will continue.
Spasms, fometimes arife from drinking
tea or diluting liquors too hot, or from an
exceffive ufe of fpirituous liquors, all which
tend to attenuate and diflipate that fine ani-
mal fluid, of which the nervous and muf-
cular fyftems are robbed of that food in-
tended for their nourifhment and fupport
hence, from the want thereof the nervous
fyflem becomes relaxed and debilited, and I
conceive that the mufcular fyftem becomes
contrai5led> fimilar to a (trip of leather,
which when deprived of its oleagenous -par-
ticles, becomes contracted and fhrivelled.
Spasms and palpitatmts of the heart, arc
very frequently produced by frights and
vexations. The patients I have bad of that
defcription are extremely numerous indeed ;
frights producing fpafms alfo produce con-
vulfions.
spasms. 57
vulfions, epileptic fits and chored san^l vitt
or St. Vitus's dance. The firfl year after I
had attended my firft anatomical initrudlions,
and when I refided in the country, I fhot a
crow, and only broke its wing which I divi-
ded at the articulation of the pinion, I lod-
ged it in a fmall room, with barley, water
and earth, it eat but very little. Sometimes
once, fometimes twice a day I went into the
room and harralTed it without touching it
died at the expiration of about 7 days. I
differed, and examined its inteflines in the
moft minute manner I poflibly could, but
difcovered nothing particular *till I opened
the heart, where I found in the ventricle a
worm of a blackitli colour, about the fize
and make of a very fmall grain of wheat.
Worms in the heart are oftentimes the caufe
of fudden deaths. Sphererius informs us that
a Florentine gentleman difcourfing one day
with a ftranger in the Duke of Tuscany r
palace, fell down dead on a fudden, his body
was opened on fufpicion of being poifoned
on
58 spasms.
on diffecling the heart, a living worm was
found therein. This cafe induced me to try
the experiment on the crow. Hence, I
conceive that fretting and vexations, arifing
from difappointments or frights, is the caufe
of that difeafe fimilar to the above and
which is frequently faid, that fuch a man
died of a broken heart.
Mrs. Bradleyy aged 64, kept a lodging
houfe in Frogmore-flreet, Briftol, on the
8th of Odober, 179 i, application was made
to me ; fhe had been extremely ill two
months, and particularly fo for the preceed-
ing fortnight, which confined her to her bed.
For the preceeding 23 years, fhe had a fixed
pain in her right fide and flomach,which all the
medicines fhe had ever taken did not remove,
By the ifl of November following, fhe was
perfedly cured, and had no relapfe during two
years, when fhe removed to a diilant part
pf tbe^city.
Extradt
spasms. 5 9
Extradt of a letter from /. H. Efq, Crutched
Fryers, London, dated the yth of De-
cember, 1 79 1.
** I now acxording to my promifc
and your kind requeft, tranfmit you the cafe
of the young lady 1 mentioned, when I lajft
had the pleafure to fee you.
About thirteen years ago fiie was firft
feized with violent fpafms in the pit of the
ftomach, after remaining there a confiderable
time, it flew to the left fide and afterwards
to the right. Whenever fhe has the fpafms
a violent pain in the back attends it, and (he
i« very fick. ; at prefent the pain is more in
the bowels coniidcrably lower than it ever
was before, and £he is worfe in the evening,
particularly every third day. Hot rooms
very much increafe her diforder, kinds of
acids difiigree, as do vegetables of every fort
except potatoes, all fpirits make her worfe.
Camphored juleps relieve the pain for a fhort
time. Laudanum has been taken in great
quantities
6o Spasms.
quantities without effed:. When at Bath
(he found benefit from the hot Bath, ' but it
weakened her fo much (he was obliged to
leave it off. Flowers of cardamoms have
been tried, but without fuccefs. She is at
prefent trying mephitic water, joined to all
this, {he has had the advice of every eminent
phyfician in London and Bath. She is now
quite willing to abide by your directions. "
As I did not deem this letter fufficiently ex-
plicit, I tranfmitted about twenty interroga-
tories to Mr. H. which were delivered to
the Lady Miss E. T. who fent mc a moft
explicit anfwer : the moment I read her let-
ter I underftood her cafe perfedlly well ; and
informed her that if fhc would ftridtly follow
my diredlions, I had no doubt of being able
to effedt a cure in about eleven or twelve
months. .Miss T'. began taking the medi-
cines fent, on the 2 2d of December, 1791.
And I cured her within 6 months.
Extradt from her letter dated London,
April 12, 1792. I think it is now about the
time
spasms. 6
time you were fo obliging to defire to hear
from me, I have taken the medicines as you
di reded ; and have the pleafure to inform
you that I am better than ever, PJeafe God
I keep well through this month, which has
always been the moft trying to my conftitu-
tion, I fhall believe myfelf perfectly cured."
Extract from another letter dated London,
June 13, 1792. It is impossible for me to
exprefs how greatly I feel myfelf indebted to
you for the wonderful re-eftablifhment of
health, I may at prefent with fafety fay J am
poffeffed of. The months of April and May
arc now over 5 two months which for twelve
years pad, have been particularly melancholy
to me, but this lall fpring, with attending
flridly to your prefcription, I have thank
God, overcome the relapfc with which I was
as ufual threatened. I have for above a fort-
night been perJeSily free from pain, and am
fo furprifmgly Wronger, that I can walk a mile
and a half without the leaft inconvenience,
when
62 spasms.
when formerly a quarter of a miles' walk
would have put me in agonies ; in fhort I
think myfelf completely blefled : and the
comfort I enjoy is evident to all my friends, *
for I have the pleafure to hear all my ac-
quaintance fay, who, or what miraculous
perfon has reftored you to fo much happi-
nefs ? why you look as chearful, and dif-
ferent as it is poffible. Indeed, with a
grateful heart I readily acknowledge the kind
perfon to whofe benevolence and indefatible
endeavours through the grace of Providence,
I am as it were created a new creature.
Extrad of another letter from Miss
dated London, Feb. 4, 1793, being eight
months after the preceeding.
Enjoying at prefent a perfeB re-efta-
blithment of health, I fhould think myfelf
very undeferving the great bleffing I have
received if I were to let you be unacquainted
with the good iutelligenee, from whofe in-
valuable
spasms* 63
raluable advice and benevolence, by the Al-
mighty's providence I have been fo miracu-
loully reftored. When firfl you did me the
, favor to ftudy my cafe, I muft own I thought
all your kind endeavours would be in vain,
to regain my long loft health, or even to have
moderated the complaint. I judged indeed,
from what you will allow I had fufficient
caufe; the feries of difappointnients I had
met with from all medical powers. Such a
recovery therefore as I now experience feems
a double proportion of happinefs conferred
upon me. E, T.*'
Miss T. was perfedly well on the 7th of
September, 1799.
Mrs, J. T. aged 30, lived with Richard
Bright, Efq. Briftol, applyed to me on the
9th of July, 1792, had been ill 11 months,
a violent fixed pain in the ftomach and back,
a fwelling on her abdomen about the fize of
a goofe's egg, which difperfed when lying
down; frightful dreams, ftartled in her fleep,
palpita-
64 spasms.
palpitation of the heart gravel, very coflivcy
fuppreffion of urine, &c. On the 3d of Sep-
tember following, fhe difcharged two large
tea fpoonfuls of gravel, of the fize of pins
heads; and on the loth of September fhe
was perfeclly cured.—Returned thanks.
In the month of Auguft, 1792, I break-
fafted with Mr, P, an attorney at law in
Cardiff ; by Mrs. P.'s countenance, I could
perceive that (he was afflidled with violent
fpafms, &c. &c. which I defcribed to Mr, P.
in Mrs, P.'s abfence, and requefted he would
enquire if my defcription was juft, if it was,
I could cure her. Accordingly Mr. P, did
enquire and informed me that my obferva-
tions were true, fhe had been afflidted up-
wards of four years ; fhe had taken great
quantities of medicines, ineffectually. Mrs,
P, aged about 30, put herfelf under my care.
On theiothof Augufl, 1792, I fent her me-
dicines, and within two months fhe was per-
fectly cured. She had been married feveral
years
spasms, '
G5
years to Mr. P, but no pregnancy. Within
twelve months after Mrs, P, was cured, fhe
was delivered of a very fine girl, who is now
alive and well.
Mr. Rees Else, gentleman, aged 48, Kingf-
down-parade, Briflol, applyed to me on the
22d of December, 1792 ; had been ill
5
years, during which time he had taken great
quantities of medicines, ineffed:ually ; his
complaints were pains in the back owing to a
fall ; violent fpafms, fometimes a round fwel-
llng in the fide about the fize of his fifi:,
which would difperfe, and return again
gravel, frightful dreams and fi:artled in hi^
fleep. On the 14th of February, 1793, in-
formed me that he was perfedly cured, and
has continued well ever fince.
Mr. H. P. aged 32, now living on the
Queen's-parade, Brifi:ol, applyed to me on
the 4th of May, 1793; informed me that
he had lived fometime at Jamaica, where he
had been feized with illnefs, that he had ap-
F plyed
66 Spasms.
plyed to Dr^. Lloydj Marshall-, Jepson; and
Reynolds, but without effed:. Agreeable to
Dr, Reynolds s advice, he returned to his na-
tive air at Chepftow, Monmouthfhire, where
he took great quantities of medicines 5 he
was confined to his bed, fuffered the moft
excruciating fpafmodic pains, frequently
delirious, and was prayed for in church
iinding no permanent relief, he came to Brif-
tol, where he alfo took great -quantities of
medicines before became to me; I under-
ftood his difeafe perfedly well, I prefcribed,
and gave him dire(5lions how to live, all
gratis, and defired that he would call upon
me every week, that I might be informed
how the medicines agreed with him, and for
the purpofe of making any necelTary alter-
ation. —In the courfe of about a fortnight
he called, and informed me that the medi-
cines agreed with him very well, (of courfe
wanted no alteration) that he was better,
but had loft my prefcription and defired to
have another, which I gave him; but he
never
spasms. 67
never called upon me fince to inform me of
the effects of the medicines, which was all I
required. About fix months after, I acciden-
tally met, and afked him how he was, he
faid that he was perfedly well, and had
cured himfelf by his own prescription. Such
grateful condud: of a man having laboured
under fuch an excellive heavy load of afflic-
tion, and who had been under the care of
many of the faculty, tneffeSiually, before he
came to me ; his behaviour gave me fuch a
difguft, as to go out of the houfe immediately,
and to have no further converfation with him
but curiofity induced me to go to the Chymift,
who fupplied him with the medicines, after
defcribing his perfon, I enquired if he had
had medicines there agreeable to my pre-
fcription, and for how long a time. They
informed me that he regularly continued
coming there with my prescription for about 2
months, but that they had not feen himlately.
It is really aftonifhing to me, and greatly to
be regretted that this very grateful and polite
F 2 gentleman
68 Spas?ns.
gentleman fliould not have cured himfelf be-
fore he had applyed to me!!! This circum-
ftance I will fubmit for the reader to refledl
upon, // he choses.
I have many times met illiterate perfons
whom I have cured, and enquired how they
were, their anfwers generally were, that
if they had not met me, they intended com-
ing as that, or the next day, to return thanks,
fuch condud from that clafs of people is
excufeable, as I impute it to their ignorance.
Miss W. aged 22, of the parilh of St.
Auguftine, Briftol, applyed the 15th of July,
1793, perfedlly cured of fpafmodic com-
plaints.
Mr. John Henwood, aged 25, gentleman,
St. Mitchell's, Cornwall, had been fubjeft
to violent pains in both his fides from his
infancy, had taken great quantities of medi-
cines ineffedually. On the 17th of Novem-
ber, 1796, M?', J» H. applyed to me 3 on the
iftof
spams. 6g
I ft of January, 1797, perfeclly curedj—no
relapfe.
Airs, Mary Pike, widow, aged 43, carrier,
at Cromhall, Glocefterfhire, applyed to me
on the loth of January, 1799, had violent
fpafms in the ftomach and fides, and con-
tinual belchings for upwards of 7 years, and
excefiive bad for the preceeding 12 months,
had taken many medicines inefFeitually.
On the 5th of June laft, Ihe came (being
the firll: opportunity) to return thanks, and
brought another patient with her.
Air. G. C. aged 40, farmer, at Charlton,
in Glocefterfhire, applyed to me on the 6th
of June laft, had bean for many years af-
flid:ed with violent fpafms in the fides, fre-
quent pains in his bowels, lofs of lleep, lofs
of appetite, and frightful dreams, had taken
great quantities of medicine ineffedually.
By the middle of December laft, was per-
fadlly cured,—no relapie.
EPILEPTIC
70
EPILEPTIC FITS.
William wood^fard, aged 20, fliop
man to Mr. McCarthyy tea-man, oppofite the
Exchange, Briftol, afflided from his infancy
with epileptic fits, which were daily increa-
fing ; applyed to me on the 5th of Au^uft,
1793 ; on the 25th of Sept. following came
to return thanks being cured fometime
after I met him in the ftreet, when he in-
formed me that he had had no relapfe: I
have never met him fince.
Sarahy aged 17, daughter of Sarah Chap-
man, Horfe-flreet, Briftol, applyed on the
27th of June, 1793, violent epileptic fits,
feveral in a day ; cured within 3 months.
No relapfe.
'John Rice, aged 33, Avon-ftreet, Briftol,
afflicted with epileptic fits upwards of two
years, had taken great quantities of medi-
cines inefFedtually, On the 15th of Odlober,
1774;
Epileptic Fits. 71
1794, he applyed to me; on the 12th of De-
cember follomng, returned thanks, —cured.
Sarah Lawrence, aged 2r, at Mrs. Hunt-
hysy grocer, Frogmore-flreet, Briftol, af-
flided with epileptic fits upwards of two
years, fometimes two or three in a day, and
increafmg in ftrength, on tHe 28th of April,
1796, fhe applyed to n^Cj on the iH of June
following, returned thanks, being perfedlly
cured : Since I commenced writing this cafe,
/lie has declared to me, that llie has not had
the leaft fymptom of a relapfe.
Mr, Joseph Toyd aged about 59, Tin-
plate-manufadurer, Maryport-flreet, Briftol,
had been afflicted with epileptic fits fince the
26th of 0(llober, 1760, being upwards of
36 years Handing, during which time he
took immenfe quantities of medicines with-
out relief, —On the 5th of July, 1797, he
applyed to me, within two months after I
cured him, and at this time enjoys a good
ftate of health.
One
72 Fits,
0?2e case was fo extremely particular as
perhaps never to have been read or heard of,
at leaft I never have. —On the 6th of March,
1793, a farmer, aged about 44, living in Sta-
plcton parifli, at the diflance of 3 miles from
Briflol, applyed to me, his information was,
that on every rogation eve, for the eleven
years preceeding, he was attacked with mofl
violent fpafmodic pains, which caufed a
kind of flupor and languor, that continued
fometimes fix, feven or eight weeks, and
thereby rendered him incapable of attending
properly to his bufinefs. During the time
from whence he was lirfl afflidted, he had
taken great quantities of medicines, had alfo
been magnatifed, by the late Dr. De Mai-
nauduc, but all proved ineffectual. —On the
24th of May following, he came to inform
me that he was perfedly cured. Mr. Shield,
near the French-prifon, at Stapleton, Glo-
cefterfhire, was a witnefs to the cure.
OF
I
73
OF THE GOUT.
The numerous Authors who have writ-
ten on the gouf fince the time of Hippocrates,
have in general materially differed in their
opinions relative to the caufe and cure of
that difeafe. It might at this period, appear
a moft prefumptuous adt, to introduce any
new fentiments on that difeafe, which I
would not attempt, did I not deem myfelf
fully juftified from the long experience,
ftrid: attention and obfervations I have made
on that difeafe, and my fuccessful mode of
treatment. It has been the general idea that
the gout is incurable, which has prejudiced
the minds of mankind fo much, that they
are
74
'
Gout.
are deaf to common reafon, grounded on the
moft philofophical principles. The general
opinion is, that the gout fliould be left to
nature, with the affiftance of patience and
flannel, and that by bringing on a regular fit
prevents other difeafes, which appears to me
to be abfurd in the extreme ; for would any
man endowed with common fenfe, willi and
fufFer his body to be faturated with vifcid
humours, when they could be eafily attenu-
ated and expelled, I have never yet had a
cafe of the gout, but what was accompanied
with either the fbone, gravel, dropfy, or the
jaundice. In fome cafes perfons are ren-
dered incapable by accidental events of ma-
king ufe of proper exercife, to caufe fudici^
ent perfpiration to carry off the morbific
humour. In other cafes I have known
young men who have had it in their power
to be cured by proper medicines and reafon*-
able, but not by exceflive modes of eating
or drinking to excefs nature mud be pro-
perly fupportcd, but they chofe to indulge
theic
GouL 75
tlieir own inclination to nurfe and Gheri(h this
genteel difcafe, by feeding it with brandy,
madeira and high feafoned meats. Hence, I
conceive that the gout is in general deemed
to be a genteel fmay I be -permitted also to add
a lazy) difeafe, and which by lome perfons is
deemed neceffary to conflitute the patient to
be denominated a gentleman,—17 years prac-
tice, ftrid attention andobfervation enables me
with the greateft confidence to fay,that when
there are no concrete maffes, commonly called
chalk flones, formed; which by degrees fluff
the joints, and deftroy their aftion ; or when,
the conftitution is not too much debilitated
by nourifliing and feeding this genteel dif-
eafe 'y I will with the greatefb certainty
affert, that it is eafier cured than three parts
out of four, of the difeafes that mankind is
incident to. The limits of this work does
not permit me at prefent, to give a minute
definition of this difeafe nor the different
prefcriptions or formules, but I will endea-
vour to prefent my ideas in as iliort and ex-
plicit a manner as I can. The
7 6 Gout.
The flomach is the fountain of ninetcnths
of the difeafes that mankind is fubject to;
the vibration of the pulfc of children is much
quicker than that of adults ; their Homachs
are alfo hotter, which enable them to digeft
half ripened fruit, &c. which adults cannot
fo eafily digcfl. As mankind advance in
years, the heat in their blood and ftomachs
gradually decreafe perfons who have cold
and phlegmy flomachs, frequently eat vege-
tables ; fome fpecies of which are very hard
of digeftion, and by lying long in the flo-
mach, generate vifcid acrimonious humours,
which are conveyed into the capillary arte-
ries and lymphatic veflels ; when this vifci-
dited fluid enters through the extreme parts
of the body, into the ligaments of the joints,
and the tendons of the mufcles fubferviant
to their motion, it becomes coagulated, it
irritates and frets them ; hence, an inflam-
mation and a moffc excruciating painful tu-
mour is formed, which is commonly called
the gout. Such pains are by no means to be
mitigated
GoiiL 7 7
mitigated by external remedies of any kind
whatever; for by fuch attempts the gouty
humours may be forced back upon the vital
organs in a moment, and the patient's life
put into the moft imminent danger. Hence,
every method fhould be immediately taken
to remove it into the extremities again.
Camphorated iEther or burnt brandy fpiced,
fhould at all times be kept in readinefs to dif-
pel this fiery adlive and tormenting foe.
My mode of treatment in general, but
adling according unto particular circum-
ftances, is to order abflinence from all vege-
tables, (excepting very few particular fpecies)
hard falted and high feafoned meats, fugar,
and all fweet things, which generate acidity
in the flomach, and moft particularly from
milk, or -any preparation therefrom, for
milk turns four in fome conftitutions and
.fills the body with wind. In other con-
ftitutions it curdles and generates vifcidity.
All vegetable acids are injurious, but mineral
acids
7 8 GouL
acids are falubrious. As much frefli animal
food may be taken as the ftomach can digeft.
Good nourifhing broths, the fat to be taken
off when cold, afterwards warmed and taken
when wilhed for. A flice of bread toafted
very brown with boihng water poured thereon
and immediately covered 'till cold, is what I
recommend to be drank at meals, as being
moft affimulating to chyle and promoting the
fpeedieft digcftion ; after, a few glalfes of ma-
deira or other wines, or more particularly wine
and water, or weak brandy and water j if
fweetened, clarified honey fhould be ufed as it
is penetrating, deterging; promotes expec-
toration, and cleanfes the kidnies of gravel,
by its diuretic properties. The pvimx viae
being cleanfed after, fuch medicines are ex-
hibited (according to age and conftitu-
tion,) as will attenuate and diffipate the vif-
cid humours by expelling them out through
the pores of the body. After, ftomachics and
corroborants complete the cure. Good
living, with temperance, and exercife as
much
GouL 79
much as the conftitution will admit of with-
out fatigue, are ellentially necefTary to pre-
vent a relapfe. Conftant exercile preferves and
confirms the health of induftrious artificers
and laborious hufbandmen, by expelling the
impurities and fuperfluous humours of the
blood; by friendly fweats and invifible tranf-
pirations that purify and purge its mafs and
which prevent obftrudions or tumours in the
fmallefl: glands. Proper exercife greatly con-
tributes to the flrengthening of the folids,
gives firmnefs to the nerves and mufcles, and
preferves a jufl and regular tention in the
fibres of the bowels. The whole fecret of
living long ; is good living, properly to
fupport nature, temperance and lahour, fo
as not to fatigue,
Mr, Richard Jenkins, aged 56, ca'rpenter
and timber-merchant, Frogmore-flreet, Brif-
tol, had been for 7 years preceeding, afflided
with the gout, and confined every year,
fometimes a month, five, fix, or fevon weeks.
On
So Gout,
On Monday the 27th of February, 1792,
he then had been confined about a month y
I mofl minutely enquired the flate of his
conflitution ; and after confidering the moll
expeditious and efFedlual mode of treatment,
and his promifing ftridly to attend to my
directions, I informed him that I had every
reafon to fuppofe that he would be out and
about amongfl his people on the Friday fol-
lowing being only the 2d of March ; accord-
ingly he did walk out ovi that day, gradually
recovered the ufe of his feet, and has never
fince been confined, and is now perfe(5tly well.
Mr, T. Cullimore, aged 50, cabinet-maker,
at Messrs, Courts, cabinet-makers and maho-
gany merchants, under the bank, Briftol,
had been afflidcd many years with the gout,
applyed to me on the ifi: of May, 1792, on
the 20th of the fame month cured and' re-
turned thanks.
Mr. Charles Margaret, aged 38, a mafter
free-ftone ^roafon, in Lamb-ftreet, Briftol,
applyed
Gout. 8
applyed to me on Monday the 7th of May,
1792, gout had commenced about 2 months
preceeding, moft excruciating pains in both
feet, on the 23d cured.
Mrs. Wife of Mr. T^ho, Skenfeld, aged 45,
at the Bell, on the Back, Briflol, gout in
her left foot upwards of a month, applyed
on December the 23d, 1792, perfedly cured
within 9 days.
Mr, James Pfhittington, aged 40, plumber,
at Wesley s Court, Horfe-fair, Briftol, rheu-
matic gout 7 years, applyed to me on the
37th of July, 1793, on Odlober following
cured.
Mrs, Stevens, wife of Mr, Tho. Stevens,
mafter carpenter, on Stoney-hill, Briftol,
gout in both feet, on May the 6th, 1796,
applyed to me; before the ift of June fol-
lowing was perfedly cured, and has not had
any relapfe.
G RHEUMATISM.
83
RHEUM ATI SM.
Rheumatisms a painful difeafe, nearly
a-kin to the gout. The acute is deemed to
be that which is attended with febrile fymp-
toms ; and the chronic, that which is without
fevers both which arife from obftrudled per-
fpiration and circulation of the fluids in the
parts affeded. The vehemence of the pain is
felt moft, when the affedled part is in motion,
or when it begins to get warm in bed. it often-
times attacks the young in the fame manner as
the old, though not fo violently. The difeafe
frequently arifes from being too fuddenly cooled
.after violent exercife, or great heat of the body
from
Rheumatism. 83
from any other caufe; an acrid ferum, or the
remains of the venereal difeafe. The fhoirl-
ders and arms arc frequently attacked with
this difeafe, by the bed cloaths being thrown
off, or when any particular part of the body
is affeded by wetted cloaths, when the cold
contrails the pores and nervous fyflem, by
which the circulation of the fluids become
obftrudted. The method of cure and diet
fhould be the fame as for the gout.
Rachael Hopkins, aged 29, wife of Thomas
Hopkins, prefTer, in Temple-ftreet, applyed
on September 23d, 1792; had been ill up-
wards of two months, violent rheumatic
pains in all her limbs, with a rafli or break-
ing out all over her body, had taken many
mcdicinesj on the 29th of Odtober following,
came to return thanks, being perfedly cured.
Samuel Putt, aged 25, labourer, at Mr.
Francis Sy Lewin's-mead, applyed on the 5 th
of December, 1792, had been ill 6 weeks,
G 2 violent
84 Rheumatim,
violent pains in the knees, feet, fhoulders
and ftomach; on the 23d of December came
to return thanks, being perfectly cured and
gone to work.
Robert Beatby aged 40, feafaring-man, at
No. 20, Horfe-ftreet, violent rheumatic pains
on the right fide; applyed on the 4th of
March, 1793; on the 15th came to return
thanks, cured.
M. E. aged 38, at Mr. ShiercUffes, book-
feller, on St. Auguftine's-back, Brirtol ; at-
tended on the 7th of February, 1795 ; rheu-
matic gout, confined to her bed 14 days
preceeding; on the ift of March was per-
fectly cured ; no relapfe, and is now well.
Mrs. Diana Beavan, aged 40, Temple-
backs, Briftol ; applyed on the 14th of May,
3797, the floop fhc came in from Ireland was
caft away, in confequence fhe was afflicted
with a violent cold, fore throat, and rheuma-
tic pains ; on the 3d of June fhe was relieved
of all her pains and cured. Captain
Rheumatism, 85
CaptainRichard Shaw, aged about 60, Pipc-
lane, Briftol, applyed to me November 10,
violent rheumatic pains in his fide and
back, which pains were removed within three
days after, and he gradually recovered his
ftrength, and is now well,
Mrs. W, aged about 48, living in Frog-
raore-ftreet, Briftol, applyed on December
24th, 1797, had for fome time preceeding,
been afflidled with excruciating rheumatic
pains in her fhoulders and arms, which flie
could not lift to her head, with a ftifFwry
neck; removed all the pains within a few
hours, and on the 27th of December, walked
out to vifit her friend. She was aeairi at-
tacked, on the 18th of June, 1799, I was
fent for, and within three days was again
perfedly freed from all her pains and cured ;
and has not been confined fince.
Virtue, aged 10 years, daughter of "johr,
Vowks, of Barrow-common, SomerfetiLire,
applyed to me Auguft 23d, 1797, ^^i-
G 3 month
86 Rheumatism.
month of April preceeding, fhe had been at-
tacked with the Chorea Sandii Viti, or Saint
Vitms dance, had taken many medicines, in-
cfFedually. She was perfedlly cured before
the month of November following.
Charles, fon of Mr, George Neat, No. ir,
Kingfdown-parade, Briftol ; a very fine boy,
aged near 8, was carried to my houfe on the
25th of September laft, could not walk, nor
even ftand without fupport, and had lofl his
fpeech. He had been attacked fome time
preceeding, with St» Vitus's dance ; had taken
medicines, but inefFed:ually. Within five
weeks after application was made to me, he
could walk near two miles without any affift-
ance, and could talk fo as to be underftood
he gradually recovered his fpeech and ftrength^
was cured within nine weeks, and now en-
joys a better ftate of health than he ever did
fince he was born.
OF
8;
OF A CONSUMPTION.
CoNSUMPTlON, is a word of very exten-
five lignification, implies all diforders that
produce any decay or wafle upon the conftl-
tution; as it proceeds from various caufes,
it is diftinguiflied by various denominations.
A consumption may be hereditary» natural, or
accidental if hereditary the taint is primarily
fixed in the conftitution of the embryo, and
interwoven with its firft principles of life.
A natural consumption may arife from the
flraightnefs of the thorax, or a particular ill
formation in fome of the vifcera.
When
/
88 Consumption.
When accidental denominated alfo fym-
tomatic confumptions; they derive their ori-
gin from various caufes Dr. Radcliffe vt^as
wont to fay " that pulmonary confumptions
in this and the colder countries, are gene-
rally scrophulous," for v^hich chalybeat waters
with antifcrophulous and pedtoral ingre-
dients which incide and cleanfe may be
exhibited.
>
The principal diagnoftics of scorbutic
consumptionsy are an eruption of fpots difpofed
on different parts of the body 3 a difcharge of
a vifcid faline pus from the jugular glands,
particularly in the morning.
For an asthmatic cofisumption, there is no-
thing better than a fine thin wholefome air ;
and for every fpecies of confumption, riding
on horfeback is the befl exercife, as will
hereafter be defcribed.
A consumption from the green sickness, and
a suppression of the catamcnia, with various
other
Consumption. 89
other difeafes, as from a diabates, Hypocon-
dr'tac and hysteric affeBions ; a gonorrhea, or a
Jluor albusy a salivation, dissentery, which have
nothing very peculiar in their manner of cure,
but what relates to their original difeafes, and
2^ phthisis in general.
Watching late, rioting, drinking wine, and
particularly fpirituous liquors, to excefs
-contribute often to that difeafe ; for they
injure the ftomach by relaxing its tone, and
deftroying its digeftive faculty, whence the
appeitite is depraved, and the aliment is fo im-
perfed:ly'concodted, that it conveys to the blood
crudities and an heterogeneal nourifhment,
which (licks in the glands of the lungs, and
obftrudls their p^ifTages. Sometimes, puru-
lent matter may be difcharged from the
glands, in the upper part of the Lirinx, or
wind pipe, when the lungs are found and un-
infedcd.
Air, impregnated with the emanations or
fumes of metals or minerals very frequently
prove
go Consumption^
prove extreniely injurious particularly to weak
lungs, by corroding and inflaming their
tender veflels which generate tubercles,
fuppuration, and foon terminate exiftence.
A fudden tranfition from a very hot, to a very
cold climate, produce obftrudied perfpiration,
fevers, &c. which if not most striBly attended
to, from refledlion, pradtice and obfervations,
muft terminate in confumption, and dilTolu-
tion of the human frame.
Lying in a damp bed, or fleeping with
difeafed confumptive perfons; their noxious
emanations are inhaled by the healthy, and
frequently terminate in death.
The body contains three large ftrainers,
the liveri the kidnies, and the lungs, which
are deflined for their feveral and important
ufes.
The liver was formed for the purpofe of
fining and depurating the blood, by filtring
from it the bile or choler, and carrying it
off by proper channels. The
Consumption, 91
The kidnies, by their peculiar glands, fe-
parate the fuperfluous ferum or watery parts,
and dilcharge them by the urinary parages
but fhould thefe fecretory glands become ob-
ftruAed by noxious particles, unapt for per-
colation and ejection ; hence, difeafes are
produced, fuch as tumours, ulcers, and jaun-
dice in the firft ; and in the laft, suppression
of urine, gravel, and stone.
The lungs are deflined by nature not only
to admit alternately the vital air by infpiration,
and excluding it by refpiration, but alfo
to feparate and difcharge the redundant pi-
tuitous parts of the blood. But when the
glands of the lungq are obftrutfled, and ker-
nels formed in both or either lobe, then the
difeafe appears out of its caufes, and now
m2iy justly be denominated a confumption in
its firfl ftage, which will continue longer or
fhorter, as thcfe green and unripe kernels
are fwifter or flower in growing ripe for
fuppuration, when they break and terminate
in
1
92 Consumption.
in an ulcer it is then the fecond flage com-
mences, and becomes a confirmed confump-
tion. The concomitant fymptoms thereof
are a ftubborn hollow cough, catarrhs, fre-
quent hoarfenefs, fick fits, lofs of appetite,
hedick fever, nodturnal colliquative fweats,
a propenfion to a flux of the belly, and a thin
lean habit of body. Perfons may be affliAed
many years with the various fymptoms that
precede and are preparatory to a phthisis, fuch
as hollow coughs, hoarfnefs, catarrhs, lofs of
fleep, ofappetite, &c. before the lungs are dan-
gerouflyafl?e6ted; and during this confumptive
difpofition, while no tubercles are yet formed
in the lungs, the difeafe is not begun; though
it may foon commence ; and the patient may
be in greatdanger of beingfoon attacked,while
the original caufe of the difeafe remain in the
blood, and produce only the complaints men-
tioned. The lobes of the lungs being hitherto
free from obflrudlive tumours, this is the proper
time for the patient to make ufe of the greateft
exertions, in taking every method to correal
the
Consumption* 93
the humours and purify the blood ;
by this
timely application, the fymptoms may be
reduced, the progrefs of thefe diforders may
be flopped, and the generating of tubercles
in the lungs may alfo be prevented. The
methods I have purfued, has firfl been to
exhibit gentle emetics (uuhen the Jlomach was
cold and phlegmyt but never when there was
the leafl indication of an inflammation in the
inteJlineSi which I have at all times moji parti-
cularly attended toJ and cathartics, to carry
dov^^n the impurities by ftool ; after, pectorals
and the bark, with fuch medicines as would at-
tenuate and purify the blood, and enable it the
more freely to circulate through the pulmo-
nary paflages. I have never been an advocate
for bleeding lince the following circumftance
happened.
JohnWiliia?nSy aged 31, journeyman baker,
applyed to me on the 3d of May, 1788,
lodged at Mrs. Richards Sy Mile-hill, Briftol
had been ill about 6 months, which ori-
ginated
94 Consumption,
ginated from a cold ; he had taken great
quantities of medicines, and inftead of getting
better grew weaker every day. On enquiry,
I found that he had been ordered a milk and
vegetable diet, which did not agree with him,
and aded iimilarly as upon two patients I
had attended to before : both died.
Williams's complaints were, a hectic fever;
a hollow cough expectorated white thick
vifcid pus, fometimes of a yellowilh hue
lofs of fleep and of appetite ; nocturnal fweats^,
very thirfty ; a great dejedtion of fpirits ;
violent pains in the ilomach and fides, and
thin flimy excrements. Refledting that I had
been twice difappointed by recommending a
milk and vegetable diet I then determined
to vary from the regular inftructions I had
received when I was a fludent.
Thefirft method I took, was toexhibitgen-
tle emetics and cathartics, and conceiving that
his lungs were not ulcerated, as his expec-
torations did not fink in water, &c. I exhibited
pev^torals.
Consumption, 95
pectorals, infufions of bark, vitriolic acid, &c.
and a change of diet to frefh animal food, and
every article that was nourifhing, which he
had an inclination for. As hecould not afford
to ride on horfe-back, I ordered him to
walk out in the moll: pure air, fo far as his
ilrength would admit of, fo as not to fatigue.
His drink with his meals to be water having
been boiled and poured on a llice of bread
toafled very brown ; as he was fubjed: to be
thirfly and fpirits depreffed, to take occa-
fionally aq. alexet, fimp. cum. fpir, nitr.
dulc. By purfuing this mode of treatment,
his convalefcence became very confpiciuous
every day, and in every refpedt. On the
20th of May, my private bufinefs requir-
ed my abfence from home ; about a month
before I fet off, I fent for my pati-
ent, informed him of my journey, and re-
queued moft particularly that he would at-
tend to my diredions, which he prc^mifcd
to do and that he would go to his father's
near Worceffer during my abfence, being
aware
96 Consimption.
aware that people in the country, are I'n
genera], very fond of vegetables and bleeding,
I cautioned him againft both ; for although
his fever was not entirely fubdued, but very
nearly fo, I ordered him particularly 'not to
fubmit to bleeding for that inflead of lofing,
his conftitution required an addition of* good
blood.—On my return to Briftol, I went to
my patient's lodgings and enquired for him,
when, I was informed that he was dead,
which aftonilhed me extremely, as I had
left him in a mofl: favourable and gradual
flate of convalescence,
I deemed it elTentially neceffary to have a
moft particular enquiry made, relative to his
condud: whilft in the country, and was in-
formed that he lived chiefly upon vegetables,
fbis father not being in affluent circumstances,
and the patient not haying recovered sufficient
strength to work, to enable him to buy animal
foody) adding to this, he was prevailed upon
to be bled, and within feven days after, he
was
Consumption. 97
was a corpfe. —Hence, 1 have not In any one
confumptive cafe recommended bleeding,
although it may be of great utility, when
the firfl: fymptom of a fever appears, or when
a (hortnefs or tightnefs of breath commences.
B/ood circulates through the veins, arteries,
and other vefTels of animal bodies ; ferves
for the fupport of life, and nourilhment of
all their parts. Blood is the great fource
from whence all the other liquids of the
body are derived. Blood is formed from
chyle by various and fucceflive degrees ; a
few hours after eating, the chyle is conveyed
into the blood, though not immediately
aflimilated. The formation of blood in the
human body depends chiefly upon the effi*
cacy of the circulation, by which the veffels
ad upon their contained fluids. Hence, in
the mofl robufl: perfons, the blood is reddeft,
and almoft black, in confequence of its fatu-
rated red colour, and becomes concreted in
a few minutes after being left in a ilate of
H reft.
9 8 Consumption.
reft. In acute difeafes, when the circula-
tion is increafed, all the parts are intenfely
red, and the ferum of the blood is converted
into a fciffible mafs. But in weak perfons,
in whom the efhcacy of the circulation is
lefs, all the parts are pale and languid,
whilft the blood is thin and hardly capable
of concretion ; but fuch perfons with pro-
per exercife, fo as not to fatigue, and proper
itmedies, the circulation may be increafed,
the red colour and a due cohefion of the
blood will return. An excefs of blood pro-
duces a plethora, lethargy, &c. Fevers are
the confequence of its too rapid motion.
Likewife living upon high feafoned meats,
drinking ftrong undiluted wine, and drinking
hot inflammable liquors, generate too great
heat and vifcidity of the blood, which pro-
duce various difeafes.
thickness of the bloody is another difeafe,
proceeding from a plethora, and diminution
of its motion ; from whence arife obftruc-
tionSy
Consumption. 99
tions, ^agnations, hyfteric and hypocon-
driac afFedlions, the incubus, or night
mare, &c.
The spitting of blood, fometimes arifes from
the immoderate motion of the blood, which
moves on with fuch violence from the heart
to the lungs, that for want of room it breaks
through fome of its channels, which are too
weak to fuftain the current.
Toung persons of florid complexions and
adlive difpofitions, are frequently fubjedl to
excefHve efFufions of this nature, and which
often happen from the hcemorrhoids and in
fevers ; when the blood is expanded and agi-
tated to an inordinate degree, becomes im-
patient of reftraint, and breaks through in
any veflel where it can mofl eafily be dif-
charged, which moil commonly are the
noflrils.
The flgns of a phthisis, or purulent con-
fumption of the lungs, or one of its lobes,
H 2 are
1 oo Consumptiolu
are a continual dry cough ; great third ; the
burfting of the vomica, or a fuppurated itn-
pofthume ; and fometimes a fufFocating dif-
charge of pus, or coughing up of matter,
which fmks in water, and is thick, foetid,
white, yellow, red, livid, or flreaked ; which
when put into the fire fmells fimilarly to
burnt flefli. Sometimes the vomica breaks
into the cavity of the thorax or breaft, which
is called an empyema.
When the purulent matter enters into the
bloo^i, refpiration becomes much injured; the
chyle and the whole mafs of blood are con-
verted into pus ; the ufual mode of nourilli-
ment is deftroyed ; the folids gradually wafte
away ; a hedtic fever appears, with nodurnal
fweats; fwellingof the hands, legs and feet,
and a diarrhoea of purulent cadaverous ftools,
which generally end in death*
Dr. Mead, I think, moft juftly obferves,
•* that fumigations with balfamics, fuch as
frankincenfe, florax, amber, and benzoin,
in
Consumption. loi
in order to corred and fweeten the acrid and
fait humours, is of vaft fervice in fome cafes
which is to be done by throwing the ingre-
dients on red coals, and receiving the fumes
through a proper tube diredlly into the win4
pipe and lungs. I am very feniible, that this
method of adminiflering balfamics is almofl:
entirely negledled, as ufelefs. But whoever
confiders the length of the way which they
rnufl make by the blood vefTels, before they
reach the lungs, and what a fmali part of
them comes to the place of their deflination,
will eafily fee, that this is the befl way of
communicating their virtue, if they have
any,"
" For the fame reafon, I have known tlie
fn>oke of balfam of tolu, fucked into the
lungs through, a proper tube, as we fmoke
tobacco, to be of fignal benefit, efpecially in
fpitting"of blood."
An hereditary consumption^ like the king's
evil, or lunacy, is a fatal entail on many
H 3 families^
102 Consumption^
families, and not e^fily to be extirpated. In
the ifland of Madeira, and probably in other
parts of Portugal and Spain, where great
quantities of fait fifli are eaten, fcrophulous
difeafes fometimes lie concealed, miffes the
father, but will appear in the grand fon.
The putrid feeds of this difeafe, are com-
plicated with the principles of life, and born
with the unhappy child, though they may
not difplay themfelves till he grows adult ;
and then they are unfolded, and fet at
liberty, by the ferments that accompany the
flower of age.
A glandulous consuniption generally. d4fco-
vers itfelf between the age of fourteen and
twenty five, but fometimes, though here-
ditary it begins to difplay its fatal fymptoms
at other periods of life. I remember having
read a cafe of a phyfician's being in promif-
cuous company, where the converfation tur-
ned upon this fubjedtj and obferving one of
the company look fat and florid ; the phyfl-
ciaa
Comumption^ 103
cian addreffed himfelf to him to this efFe<5t.
'* You, fir, are fo happy in a hail conftitution,
frefli looks, and mufcular limbs, that you
are falb enough from the difeafe we are dil-
coLirfing of. Sir, he replied, by all that
appears you may juftly be induced to be-
fpeak me in the manner you have done, but
notwithftanding that, I am well afTured,
that I have not a year longer to live, for it is
not known, that for feveral generations, any
one of my family has exceeded fbrty, but
generally they die about eight and thirty;
and, I now being turned of thirty feven, I
conclude I (hall live but a little longer. He
fpoke this with fuch a fedate and undifturbed
mind, that I could not impute it to" melan-
choly, or a fplenetick whimfey ; and I was
confirmed in my opinion, when in lefs than
fix months after he fent for me to give him
my advice, I found him ftriving with a (harp
and obflinate cough, attended with a fever-
ifh diforder, and a faded afpedt, and in de-
fphite of medicine, in lefs than three months,
H 4 to
104 Consumption.
to my great furprize, his diflempcr entirely
unravelled him, and he melted away."
There is another fpecies of confumption
called an atrophy, wherein the body does not
receive the necelTary nutriment, but wafte and
decay inceffantly. This is a difeafe proceeding
from the whole habit of the body, and not
from any diflemper of the inteftines. It is
generally attended with a hollow cough, a
hoarfenefs, lofs of appetite and of fleep ; is
either nervous, or arifes from the effects of
immoderate evacuations. A nervous atrophy
fometimes originates from the morbid flate
of the fpirits, or from a weaknefs of the tone
of the nervesi whence an univerfal confump-
tion of the body proceeds, for want of a due
affimilation of the nutritious juices ; there is a
defed: of appetite, and bad digeftion, arifing
from an imperfect elaboration and volatili-
zation of the chyle.
Riding on horfe-back, increafes the cir-
culation of the blood, attenuates and di-
vides
Consimption, 1
05
vides the fluids, confirms and flrcngthens
the membranes of the mefentery ;
pro-
motes a regular perfpiration asalfo a due fecre-
lion of all the humours; for it accelerates the
animal fpirits, and facilitates their diflribu-
tioninto all the fibres of the body, ftrengthens
the parts, prelerves the tone of the ftomach,
creates an appetit? and helps digefi:ion : Whence
it arifes that thofe who are accuftomed to la-
bour and exercife, are generally very robufl
and feldom fubje6t to difeafes. It has been
found by experience that perfons long afflicted
with an obfiinate fcorbutic flux or loofe-
nefs, which had eluded the force of celebrated
medicines, have been greatly relieved by
riding on horfe-back ; and mofl: men accufto-
med to that exercife, find that it invigorates
iind confirms the intefl:ines, and fometimes to
that degree, that they become collive to an
excefs. A man particularly of a weak habit
of body fhould not ride on a full llomach,
for when the flomach is diflended the con -
cuflions of the horfc is very troublefoiric,
H 5 fatigiiin-.
1 o6 Consumption^
fatiguing, and of courfe injurious to the con-
ftif.'ition. The mornings before dinner, or
flfrer digeftion is nearly hnifhed, are the moft
proper times for riding. The valetudinarean
{liould begin gradually and every day increafe
his exercife in proportion to his flrength ;
for nothing is more conducive to health than
moderate ; fo violent exercife attenuates the
fluids, diffipates the fpirits, debilitates the
body, deftroys the eleflicity of the fibres and
cxhaufts the fluid parts of the blood. Change
of air for confumptive conflitutions is mofl
cfTentially neceifary to be attended to. If a
patient be emaciated, thin and of a hot fe-
verifn complexion, and dwells in a clear air
and dry country, he fhould remove into a
flatter and moifter foil, where the air is
thicker and lefs ventilated. Confumptive
perfons that inhabit the vale fhould remove
to the purer air (which contains a vivifying
property) of the downs and the hills, where
the foil is dry, and fpontaneoufly produces
wild marjarom> wild time, and the like fweet
fee n ted
(Consumption. 107
fcented plants. The morning air is deemed
more refrertiing than that of the evening,
and air agitated v/ith breezes more than that
which is ferene and ftill. Stagnating air is
produdive of putrid and malignant diforders,^
as bilious fevers, dyfenteries, &c. and tluit.
which is too moid produces coughs, rheu-
matifms, inflammatory fevers, &c. " For all
nature is animated in a furprifing degree.
The air which we breath, the food which
we eat; all fluids efpecially, are full of ani-
malcula of very different kinds. Whence
it is poflible, that fome of thefe being re-
ceived into our bodies, and conveyed into
minute pafl^ages of the fofteft parts, as into
nefts, may there grow, as worms do in the
inteflines, to their proper fize. Hence, by
theobflrudion of the fmallefl; veflels, tumours
arife ; which being fupported by heat and
burfling, pour forth their foul ofl-spring in
the fhape of worms." Mead,
\ The general opinion is, that ades, goat?,
and cows milk, are efficacious for coiifunio-
r
tive
io8 Consumption, '
tive difcafes. I have experieriCed that fucK
milks are injurious to valetudinareans, for it
either turns four in the ftomach, or is gene-
rated into phlegm which opprefles the lungs,
it has no efficacy that flrikcs at the root of
this difeafe ; nor is it endowed with any con-
ftringent force proper to reflore and confirm
the fl:rud:ure of weak lungs, whofe tone and
firmnefs are depraved, and in a great mea-
fure loft. Affes, goats and cows milk,
which generally abound with acid humours,
curdle in the ftomach, or by ftieathing the
coats thereof palls the appetite and prevents
digeftion. The ftomach in the human body
is fingle, but many of the brute creation
have feveral ftomachs ; its veftels are arte-
ries, veins, nerves and lymphatics, its arte-
ries, called gaftricae, it receives from the
coeliac, the gaftric veins all run to the vena-
portae ; among thefe are obfervablc the vafa
brevia, which go off" to the fplenic branch,
and the vena coronaria which furrounds the
ftomach. Fowls that live upon corn have two
ftomachs I
Consumption, 1
09
ftomachsj the fir ft membranous, called the
crop'y the fecond carnous called gczard: Dr.
Gibson fays in his treatife upon anatomy,
*' that fuch quadrupeds as chew the cud have
four ftomachs, the firft whereof is called the
paunch', the fecond reticuhis-y the third ihtfeck;
the fourth the read,'' Hence, as the formation
of the ftomach of man is very different to that
of the brute creation, I conceive that the milk,
of each fpecie is befl: adapted to nourifh and
fupport its own particular fpecie. Milk is
prepared from chyle, whence every animal
confifts is nouriflied, and lives on its own
proper milk and from this prepares all the
other parts, both the folid and fluid, by
means of the vital actions. The human
milk is fweet and thin, and moil: nourifliing
for mankind ; the next is that of afTes ; then
that of goats ; and ladlv that of cows; and
according to the diverfity of animals and
their refpedllve foods, they are polfeiTed of
different and peculiar qualities. Womens'
milk for medicinal purpofes is preferable to
^ all
no Consumption.
all others for man. I recolleft having read
an account of a man who was cured of a
confumption by fucking his wife's breaft,
after having tryed all other remedies ineffec-
tually. *'
In ulcers of the lungs, phyficians
particularly recommend a milk courfe, as
having the double advantage of being food
and phyfic. But this practice is liable to
fome caution i becaufe fome people have a
natural averfion to milk. Moreover in head
aches, acute fevers, and cxceffive thirfl occa-
fioned by them ; and likewife in flatulencies,
in bilious loofeneffes, and very bloody flools,
milk ought always to be deemed a poifon,'*
Dr. Mead,
On the 30th of March, 1790, I arrived
at Saliibury, the lady whofe houfe I was at
informed me, that fhe had a fifler Miss J,
aged 20, whofe diffolution fhe expected
every minute ; {he had been ill 2 years in
London, her phyfician there ordered her to
Southampton to bathe, which made her
worfe.
Consimption. 1 1
worfe. —After, llie was taken to her fiftefs
houfe at Salifbury, fhe took great quantities
of medicines, inefFecftually ^ that lately, flie
was feized with three or four fits every day^
and every fit expeded to be her laft. Some-
times (he had no evacuation for fix or feven
days, at other times quite the reverfe for
as many days, and as her phyfician had given
her over, I was requefted to fee her : when
I went into her room (lie was in a fit, bol-
ftered up, and fupported by two females; fhe
was almoft a mere ficeleton, her feet were
then and had been a day or two preceeding as
cold as clay. I prefcribed for her and gave
the necefifary directions as to diet. Sec. I
received a letter, dated May i i, 1790, from
Miss IV,'5 fificr, wherein iLp fays, accept
our befl and grateful thanks, I know you
will rejoice to hear that my dear fifier is
wonderfully relieved." Another letter dated
the 4th of Augull, 1790, fays ** my fifi&r 1.-
mending very fafi indeed." However (he
had a relapfe from catching cold. She
ordered.
112 Consumption.
ordered to Briftol; where Ihe arrived on the
I ft of April, 179 1, and again put herfelf under
my care ; fhe was fo weak that flie could not
ftand without being aflifhed, her pains were
very violent. In about 14 days fhe could
walk a crofs the room without the leaft affift-
ance ; within three months fhe could ride a
fingle horfe from Mr, yohn Weeks's country-
houfe, at Felton to Briftol, and back again
in the courfe of the morning. She returned
to Salifbury, and in the year 1799 enjoyed a
sood ftate of health.
Mr. William Hahall, aged 22, watch-
maker, Broad-weare, Briftol ; applyed to m&
on the 1 2th of July, 1799, had been ill up*
wards of two years, his difeafe was a con-
fumption (atrophia) I particularly advifed
him to abftain from milk, excepting a little
with his tea, as alfo from vegetables; as
foon as he had acquired a little ftrength, I
recommended riding on horfe-back, and
change of air, which with proper medicines
cfFedted
Consumption^ &c. 113
efFe(9:ed a cure before the month of Fe-
bruary lafl.
George Lamb, aged 30, coachman to Rich-
ard Brighty Efq. Ham-green, near Briftolj
applyed to me on the 2d of June, 1791,
his difeafe, confumption; the atrophia. Cured
within 6 months, and is now well.
Consumption and Spasms*
JohnBREffERj pump and block-maker,
aged 30, No. 28, Horfe-ftreet, Briftol; feized
with illnefs arifing from a general chill of the
body, by fitting a pump in a damp well, in
the beginning of May, ijgi; which produ-
ced violent pains in his ilomach, fides, and all
his limbs, frightful dreams, lofs of appetite,
and of fleep ; he had taken great quantities of
medicines inefFedually. He applyed to me on
the 6th of. May, 1792 ; on the 30th of July
he went to work; and on the ifi: of Odober
following, he came to return thanks, being
cured,
I Rachael
114. Consumption,
Racbael Field, aged 41, lodged at Mrs^
Jfarrmgtonsy No. 30, Horfe-flreet, Briftol;
lived lafl in fervice with Mrs. Franks, at
Shirehampton; applyedto me 011 the 11th of
June, 1792; had been ill 2 years, confump-
tion ; exped:orated green and yellow pus
hedlic fever, night fweats, thirfly, debility,
could hardly walk acrofs the room, received
pay from St. Petcr's-hofpital. On the 23d of
June, Ihe was much better and able to walk
out when the weather was fine. On the i6th
of July following, freed from her complaints,
except expedlorating a little white froth ^ her
flrength reflored fo much, as to beableto walk
two miles without fatigue. A few days after,
file personally attended at the hofpital ; the
next day fhe kept her bed on enquiry, she
informed me, that she had been obliged to stand
near two hours in St, Peter s-church-yard, to
receive her pay that it rained during the whole
timCy which wetted her thoroughly, and be-
numed her, which produced such a dreadful re-
lapscy as obliged her to he taken to the hospital,
'where she died within 7 days, Miss^
Consumption. 115
Miss, aged 12, daughter of Mr. H» F.
RedclifF-ftreet, Briftolj application was made
to me on the 19th of April, 1794; her dif-
eafe was a confumption ; had been ill up-
wards of 13 weeks, during which time llie
had taken great quantities of medicines, but
without effed:. I cured her within 9 weeks.
Captain Edward Bullock, aged about 44,
College- ftreet, Briftol ; applyed to me on
February the 26th, 1798; his difeafe airophidy
or nervous consumption-, had taken great quan-
tities of medicines ineffedually. On March
the 8th following', fhrong fymptoms of con-
valefcence appeared : perfectly cured before
the month of Odtober following, and at this
time enjoys a good flate of health.
I 2 COVGU
COUGH AND ASTHMA.
JVlLLIAM CART, aged 72, by his wife
who applyed to me in a great hurry, about 4
o'clock in the afternoon, ©n the 26th of
February, 1792, informed me that he had
been bolftered up in bed about a fortnight,
his difeafe an afthma, that the throttles com-
menced about 2 hours before, could not then
fpeak, and fhc requefted to know, if I could
be of any fervice to him ; not a moment's
time was to be loft. I immediately gave her
a very ftrong emetic with diredions for its
exhibition 3 to go home as faft as poffible.
Agreeable to my directions, fhe came to me
about 8 o'clock, informed me that her huf-
^
band
Cough and Asthna. 117
band had been fo ill for the laft twelve
months, which had rendered him incapable
of working ; that he had taken great quan-
tities of medicines ineffectually. The emetic
I had given operated very well, he recovered
the ufe of his fpeech and by following my
diredlions was relieved fo far, as enabled him
to go to work on the 29th of March follow-
ing, and lived 'till last year,
Anrii aged 7, daughter of Mr. 'John Davies^
Ihoe-maker, Steep-ftreet, Briftol ; applyed to
•me on the 2d of Od:ober, 1792, diseasej a
violent dry cough, 3 years {landing, great heat
in her ftomach, 6cc. On the 15th of De-
cember following, was perfedly cured.
Lewis Murphy, aged 31, Bettington-lanc,
Briflol, carpenter; applyed to me on the 4th
of May, 1796, his difeafe, a violent cough,
pains in the ftomach and fides. On the 23d
of June following, came to inform that he
was cured, and returned thanks.
HOOPING
ii8
HaOPING COUGH.
Elizabeth, aged 4, daughter of Eliza-'
beth Spencer, at Mrs* Williams s, Baldwin-
ftreet; applyed to me on the 3®th of June,
1792; hooping cough, 3 weeks; her mother
was fimilarly difeafed. On the i ft of Auguft
following, returned thanks, both mother and
child were perfedly cured.
Susan, aged 4 years, and Elizabeth, 15
months, daughters of Susan T^homas, Tay-
lors'-court, Herfe-fair, Briftol; applyed on
February the 7th, 1795, feized with the
hooping cough the prcceeding November^ on
the 24th of March, came to return thanks s
cured.
William,
Hooping Cottgh, &c. &c. i i
g
tVilliam, aged 3, fon of Mr, WtUlam Daniel,
tyler and plaiflerer, Bifhops'-park, Briflol;
applyed on June the I3tb, 1796, had been
ill of the hooping cough, 2 months»—Cured
within I month.
Erysipelas, or Sf, Anthony s Fire,
J* W. aged 50, Park-ftreet, Briftol ;
erysipelas and bad habit of body many years
on February the 19th, 1798, applyed^ and
within 2 months was cured.
Sore Eyes,
Ann, aged 4 years, daughter of Mr, JVm,
Hood, cabinet-maker, Horfe-flrect, Briftol
applyed on Auguft the 15th, 1790, her face
very fcabby, her lips fwelled and cracked in
two places, great humour in her eyes, had been
a year and half ill. —Cured within 6 weeks.
William Parsons, aged 10, lived with Mrs,
Veldbunty No. 9, Trencher-lane, Briftol ; fore
I 4 cycfi
120 Sore Eyes^
eyes 6 months ; had taken many medicines
ineffeilually. Applyed on Auguft the 15th,
1792.—Within one month after, cured.
Airs, Matthias, aged 45, Church-lane, near
St. Michaels' Church, Briflol applyed on
November the 25th, 1792, great inflamma-
tions (commonly called hloodfliot) in both
eyes.—On December the 3d following, re-
turned thanks, cured.
Tinea or Scalld-Heady
Thomas caret, aged 45, (hip-joiner.
No. 19, Frog-lane, Briftol^ applyed on Jan.
the 4th, 1796 J ulcers and tumours on the
temples and all over the head, about the
fize of fix -pence, which difcharged ichor,
and dried into fcabs ; rheumatic pains in the
left knee, feverifli, thirfty, coftive, and vio-
lent palpitation of the heart ; had been ill
and incapable of working near 12 months j
had taken great quantities of medicines inef-
fedlually. —On February the 6th returned
thanks, cured. ULCERATED
121
ULCERATED LEGS.
Mrs. Mary fVestcott, aged 60, lived with
her daughter, Susannaf wife of Mr. T^homas
Way, in the Vidualling-officc, Plymouth ;
came to Briflol to fee her fon Mr. John
fVestcotf, aged 30, who I had then lately
cured of a very rapid commencing decline
in confequence, Mrs. W, applied to me on the
3 ill: of December, 1792 j £he had had two
large ulcers in her right leg, with a gceat in-
flammation in her left leg for upwards of
35 years, during which time flie had been
regularly treated, but received no permanent
relief, —ihe was alfo coftivc, very thirily,
lofs of appetite and ileep.—^On February the
oth.
12 2 Ulcerated Legs.
9tb, 1793^ catiie to return her sincere thanks,
being perfectly cured, and on the next day
returned to Plymouth.
yohn Bennett, aged 54, flioe-maker, >Den-
mark--f1:reet, Briftol; applyed to me on the
1 1 th of November, 1795, ^^^^> ^^^^ 35 J^^^^
preceeding, in going over a hedge near
Minehead, (where he then lived) a thorn
fluck in his right leg, and ulcerated, which,
on examination, I found it to have entered into
the outfide, about 6 inches above the articula-
tion of the fibula with the tibia. After, old
w omens' advice, advices, 6cc. were attended
to; the wound would frequently cicatrize, and
break out again which induced him to come
to Briftol for further advice, which duringthe
courfe of 12 months proved ineffedlual. He
was recommended to come to me, I informed
him that it was a furgical cafe, which I did
not practice; but he came well recommended,
having a wife and 5 children, which dif-
enabled him to pay any more money, I gave
him
Ulcerated Legs. 123
him leave to attend me.—In the beginning
of Nov. following came to return thanks
perfedly cured.—No relapfe.
Mr. benjamin Rowland, aged 39, officer of
Excife, Limekiln-lane, Briftol ; applyed to
me on the 23d of January, 1796 ; his right
leg was greatly inflamed; there were two
large ulcers on his left leg, which difcharged
a fetid matter, limilar in colour to muddv
water : this leg had been ulcerated upwards
of 16 years. He had been under the care of
feveral, but without fuccefs, excepting that
of healing up his wounds, for, perhaps a
week or a little longer time when his leg
would again break out. On the 4th of
April following, he came to inform me, that
he was perfedtly cured.
SCROPHULJ.
124
*«''*»ilL""k«'*?Uir""'t»*''«!,ll'"''"'*»*«<\il'"'V>*4
SCROPHULA.
JB. M. aged 33, at 5. /iT. Esq. (then in
Briftol for the winter feafonj applyed on
Feb. the 2 ill:, 1798 ; about 6 years pre-
ceeding, being extremely hot, flie plunged
her feet into cold water, which produced a
fcrophulous difcafe, all over her body;
thirily, feverifh, coftive, &c.—-Within 3
months fhe was cured.
Mrs. B. aged about 40, of B-ftreet,
Briftol, applyed to me on April the 'i 8th,
1796, afflided with a fcrophulous com-
plaint 16 years; had taken great quantities
of medicines ineffedually.—Within two
months was cured.
SWELLED
>
SWELLED LEGS
Mrs, patience STAIGHT, aged 59,
fhop-keeper, Milehill-fleps, Briftol, applyed
to me on the 4th of Auguft, 1792.—Swelled
legs with great itching, which fhe had la-
boured under many years, during which
time took great quantities of medicines, Oc-
tober the 29th, cured.
Mary Ellh^ aged 54, worked at Messrs,
Courts, upholders, ^&c. Briflol, applyed on
the 6th of Auguff, 1792, had been afflided
with fwelled legs upwards of 2 years, violent
pains in her ftomacl:^ fides, had taken
many medicines without relief. —November
the 6th following, came to return thanks,
cured. y^^fg
126 ' Swelled Leg-s.
'John Vafterson, aged 54, bright- fmitb.
No. 27, Thomas-ftrcet, Briftol; applyed to
me on the 13 th of Augjjft, 1800 ; fwellings
in his legs and thighs upwards of 10 weeks
preceeding, violent fweats had commenced in
May, fuppreffion of urine, and a general de-
bility of the conftitution ; had, previous to
his coming to me, taken great quantities of
medicines ineffectually; on the 26th of No-
vember following, went to work, perfe^ftly
well and on the 29th came to return thanks.
Mrs, S. aged 30, houfekeeper to Mr, N.
tV, Corn-ftreec, Briftol /lie applyed to me on
the 25th of February, 17933 her difeafes,
very painful fwellings in the face and gums,
pains in her head, teeth, and flomach, which
was cold and phlegmy, with lofs of appetite,
and of fleep, &c.—Had taken many medi-
cines without relief ; the 28th of March fol-
lowing quite hearty, all her pains and fwel-
lings ceafed. A relapfe commenced in May
following j but by a ftrid: attention and per-
feverance
Swelled Legs^ &c. &c. 1 2 7
Icxverance, on the i ith of Augufl following,
was p6rfed:ly cured. —No relapfe.
Angina, or Sore l^hroat,
Mrs. BUNABEJFJN, aged 40, Tem-
ple-backs, Bfiftol ; applyed to me on the 14th
of May, 1797 about 5 months preceeding,
had been cafl away on the coafl: of Ireland ;
her difeafe a fore throat, violent cold, fwelled
face, and a continual buzzing pain in the
head.—On the 3d of June following, per-
fedly cured.
Cholera Morbus,
Mrs. H, a lady aged about 56, College-
flreet, Brifl:ol,*fent for me on the 22d of Sep-
tember, 1 8ooj difeafe, cholera morbus. She
was free from all pain, and well before the
loth of Odtober following.
DJSTENDEI)
128
DISTENDED BELLY, &c.
On October the 17th, 1791, Susan, wife
ofJas, Taylor, tyler and plaifterer. Frog-lane,
Briflol ; brought to my houfe her little boy,
aged about 4 years, had been ill a very con-
fidcrable time his belly was fo greatly dif-
tended that he could not fee his own feet,
and fhone as if it had been rubbed over with
oil i his arms and legs but little more than
fkin and bones. Within 6 weeks the child
was perfedtly cured, and gradually regained
his ftrength.
Bloody Flux,
William, aged 8, fon of Edwd, Peterson,
feaman, Baldwin-ftreet, Briftol, applyed on
Auguft
Bloody Flux, &c. 129
Augufl the 20th, 1792; hard fwclled belly,
and bloody flux, curpd within 3 weeks.
Incontinence oj Urine,
Richard HOPKINS, aged 37, Taylor,
at the fecond houfe from the Bull's-head, St.
James's-back, Briflol ; applyed January the
9th, 1793, had been afflicted for a confider-
able time, with incontinence and bloody
urine, great thirft, violent pains in the loyns,
and gravel he had taken great quantities
of medicines, inefFedually. —On July the ift,
1793, came to return thanks, quite hearty,
and was perfectly well in the month of July
laft,. i8qo.
A, F, aged 35, cook to Mr, Park-
ftreet, Briflol; applyed on February the 20th,
1798 ; incontinence of urine for 7 years pre-
ceeding, coflive habit of body, &c.—On
May the 2d following, came to return
thanks, cured,
K GRAVELy
130
GRAVEL, &c.
JfoHN CORTER, aged 46, labourer, at
the old Brick-yard, near Temple-gate,
Briftol, applyed on Auguft the 10th, 1796^
troubled with the gravel, many years ; about
two months after came to return thanks,
cured.
Contr.adled Sinews.
Mrs. BURDy a widow lady, aged about
60, at Mr, Lawrencesy College-ftreet,
Briftol ; applyed on February the 19th,
1796 had been fubjed: to a gouty habit of
body for upwards of 26 years. About the
latter
Contra^ed SinezuSy &c. 13!
latter part of May, 1795, (he lofl the ufe of
her right hand, ariling from a contradtion of
the mufcular fyflem. She had taken great
quantities of medicines, inefFedually j within
fix months I perfectly cured her, and in the
month of July laft, 1800, declared that {he
then enjoyed as good a ftate of health, as fhe
ever did at any one period of her life fhe
really then was as alert as any young lady at
the age of fixteen, who enjoyed the moft
perfedt ftate of good health.
ylgUe, or intermitting Fever,
John SI'EFENS, aged i6, fervant to a
farmer, in the moors, Henbury-parifh,
Glocefterfhire, applyed to me on Odlober the
2d, 1786, had been afflid:ed with a quotidian
ague for a very confiderable length of time,
petfedlly cured him within feven days.
K 2 SCARLET
132
SCARLET FEVER, &c.
Thomas, aged Sarah, aged 5, children
of Thomas Morgan, at Mr, Stephens s, Glcfter-
lane, Briftol; had been ill 6 weeks of a fear-
let fever; applyed Oftober the 21ft, 1793*
cured within 18 days.
Ardent Fever,
£• HEATH, aged about 40, taylor. Nar-
row-alley, Frogmore-ftreet, Briftol ; applyed
to me, February the 7th, 1 794 a violent
fever, perfectly cured him within 7 days.
PUTRID
133
ioi9i(Si®|<SSSS>l9l9iei*i<
PUTRID and MALIGNANT
FEVER.
On the 19th of May, 1792 ; I happened
to be at the Red-L.yon, in Landilo, Carmar-
thenfliire, where ^il/wm, aged 15, (son of
Mrs, Brooks, the hostess,) had been confined
to his room and bed, about 4 days, with a
putrid malignant fever, and fore throat 5 I
immediately prefcribed for him, and on the
2ift, felt the greatefl fatisfadlion, at his rapid
convalefcence, when I went from Landilo
but left the neceflary diredtions how he was
to be treated, as alfo all the family in th^
house, who were in a flfght degree infe(5ted ;
and in about a week after, on my return to
K 3 Briftol i
I
134 Putrid and Malignant Fever
Briftol, 1 had the pleafure of receiving
a letter, informing me, that they were all
recovered, and that William Brooks's ftrength
was alfo returning as rapidly as could poffibly
be expeded.
Hardness of Hearing.
KlIZABETH, aged 9, daughter of Mr,
Richard Martin, failor. No. 4, Horfe-ftreet,
ill from her infancy hard of hearing fince
fhe was 3 years old ; pains in her ftomach
^nd head ; fpit blood ; breakings out on the
back part of her head ; fhe had taken great
quantities of medicines, but without cfFedl.
Application was made to me on the 24th of
July, 1792 ; fhe was cured within 3 months.
Mrs. Thomas, aged about 40, Bedminfter-
caufeway, near Briftol ; her hearing much
injured by a violent cold, applyed to me on
the 15th of May, 1799 cured within i
pionth.
CHLOROSIS
CHLOROSIS, or GREEN
SICKNESS, &c.
Miss c. aged i8, L-mead, Briflol ; her
mother, applyed to me on the 21II: of May,
'
1799; had been ill
3 years, —Cured within 2
months.
Nervous Head-Acb.
NLrS, E, BARNES, Shepton-mallett,
fchool-miftrefs, applyed on the i8th of May,
1796.—Cured.
BAD
136
-*»v.>c?o-pK::>«fl»«:;;;>::::x>A::<>«^---—
t
BAD EFFECTS
I^ROM DRINKING
COLD WATER.
Mrs. aged about 40, wife of Mr, yones,
carpenter, Trenchard's-lanc, Briftol ; had
been ill about 9 days, arifing from drinking
cold water, which occafioned a violent chill,
a great fwelling of the body, excruciating
pains, and very thirfly ; £he had taken fe-
veral bottles of medicines, inefFe<5lually ; on
the iith of Auguft, 1792, application was
made to me, and within 5 days after, fhe
was perfedly cured.
H/EMOPTOE
137
HjEMOPTOE,
O R
SPITTING OF BLOOD.
Ann THOMASy aged 21, daughter of
Mr. David Thomas, breeches- maker, had
been afHi(5led with violent pains in the fto-
mach and bowels; fpitting of blood and ob-
ll:ru(5led catanienia near three years ; had
taken many medicines, inefFedtually. She
applyed to me on the 13th of Auguft, 1792,
and was pcrfedlly cured before the 3d of
Odtober following.
Mrs. Elizabeth Parrott, aged 33, Hot-
wells ; ill 12 months, violent pains in the
rtomach, &c. &c. fpit blood; applyed to
me on the 13th of September, 1796. Cured
within two months.
BILIOUS,
138-
BILIOUS, &c.
Mrs. B, aged about 34, Temple-ftreet,
Briftol ; afflicfled for feveral years preceeding
with a bilious and coftive habit of body, a
conftant pain in the fides and back, and a
cold ftomach. Applyed to me on the I2tli
of September, J792 ; and on the 29th of
October following, was cured.
Tellow Jaundice.
Mrs, JENKINS, aged 33, Red-Iyon,
RedclifF-ftreet, Briflol ; applyed to me on
the 8th of Nov. 1797 i her difeafe the
yellow jaundice, pains in the ftomach, pal-
pitation of the heart, and tlyrfty.—Cured
within 6 weeks,
WORMS.
139
WORMS.
I^REDERICKy aged 2 years, fon of Mr,
E. S. CoUege-ftreet, Briftol ; application
was made to me, May the i4tb, 1800 his
difeafe, worms in the inteflines. June the
loth, cured.
Mr, JV, J, Thomas-flreet, BriAoI ; ap-
plyed tome on the 29th of May, 17965
worms, ascan'des; pain in the left fide, cof-
tive habit of body. Cured within 6 weeks^
JTCFL
140
ITCH.
Mr. H, N. St. Auguftinc's-parifh, Briftol
on the 9th of April, 1793, entertained a re-
lation and his wife, (who arrived that day
from London,) at his houfe; a very few days
after, it was difcovered that all the family
were affected with the itch, which relations
had been infected with, by lying, as they
fuppofed, in a bed (that was not clean,) on
the road. Application was immediately
made to me, and within 4 days I cured all
the family, and deflroyed the infection in
their clothes, without wafhing them.
Ami, aged 18 months, daughter of John
Edwards, carpenter, Queen-ftreet, Briftol
was afflided with the itch; on the 17th of
July, i793> application was made to me; I
alfo cured her within 4 days.
DOWN-
/
141
DOWN-FALLING
OF THE
ANUS, &c.
Hannah, aged 3 years, daughter of Mr,
R* H, mate of a fliip, belonging to Briftol
her mother applyed to me on the 20th of
Auguft, 1792; the difcafe a moft violent
pain in the bowels, and down-falling of the
anus, for the lafl: preceeding month. On
the 14th of September following, was
cured.
Down-falling of the Womb,
Mrs. E, P. widow, aged 34, of Briftol; ap-
plyed to me on the 5th of Aug. 1793. She
had been married at the age of 14; (he was
afflidled with' a great fwelling in her flomach
and belly, with great pain ; and a down-
falling of the womb.—Within 2 months I
cured her, CO.Y-
CONSUMPTION
RAPIDLY
Commencing.
In the month of Auguft, 1798, I took
a ride with a gentleman to his eftate,
about 5 miles diftant from Briftoh where
I obferved at the farmer's houfe, a very
decent young woman, who appeared to be in
a moft deplorable ftate of health I told her
all her complaints by phyfiognomy, which
(he acknowledged to be right.—-She in-
formed me that {he had not been well for
the laft 4 or 5 years, and particularly for the
laft 18 months, that fhe had taken mediciqes
which
Consumption rapidly commencing. 143
which did not relieve her ; that (he was or-
dered into the country for the benefit of the
air. She had been about a week in that
lodging, and was rather worfe than better,
and that (he was not then under the care of
any medical man. The fituation of her
lodging was in a low moor, full of ditches,
containing flagnated water, emanating a
fetid putrid effluvia. Having myfelf experi-
enced what illnefs was, and which induced
me to be inftrudted in, and to ftudy phy-
fic compaflion for the afflided, compelled
me to recommend her to quit that fituation
as foon as pofTible ; for, inflead of its being
healthy, it was extremely unhealthy for her
difeafe. I gave her my addrels, and my pub-
lic days of attendance to fuch as were not in
affluent circumflances ; that as I could tell all
her complaints byphyfiognomy. If flicfhould
'
think proper to put herfelf under my care,,
and would flri*5tly follow my direilions, 1
had no doubt (I would not be fo prefump-
tuous as to fay that I would) of bein? able
144 Consmnpiion rapidly commendn^:
to cure her in reply, flie informed me that
(he would on the next which was market day,
fend to her hufband to fetch her home. On
the week following, (he applyed to me, gave
heraddrefs, A/rj. F. aged 30, Avon-ftreet,
Great-gardens, Briftol; llie put herfelf under
my care on the 22d of Auguft, 1798 her
difeafe, a dry hoarfe cough, hedtic fever, vio-
lent pains in her flomach and fides, lofs of
fleep and of appetite, frightful dreams, palpi-
tation of the heart, and a general debility of
the conftitution I prefcribed for her ; fhe
^flridly adhered to my dired:ions. On Sep*
tember the 14th, her cough and hoarfcnefs
entirely gone ; all her other complaints al-
layed, gained llrength every day, and on the
2 2d of 0<flober following, was perfectly
cured ; and I have not heard of her having
had the lead fymptom of a relapfe.
On the i4lh of February, 1799, as I
paffed by Mr, C's, ware-houfe, he called me
in i
faid, that his partner, Mr. A, had not
enioved
Consump. rapidly commencing^ &c. 145
enjoyed a good ftate of health for fome years,
enquired if I could cure him ; Mr. ^. lives
in the parifh of St. Auguftine; being prefent,
I requefted he would take off his hat, which
he did, when I told him his complaints; I
prefcribed for and cured him ; and at prefent
he is polTelTed of a good flats of health.
Hdemorrhoides, or Piles.
An extraordinary case, Charlotte, aged 4,
daughter of Mr, J, H. St, James's-ftreet,
London; haemorrhoides from her birth. On
the 20th of Odober, 1799, (he was put
under my care. On the 27th of November
following, was perfedlly cured, and on the
2d of February, i8oo, when I returned to
Briftol, fhe had not the leaft relapfe.
Mr, S. S, aged about 48, Stapleton,
Glocefterfhire; haemorrhoides for fome time.
146 Hcemorrhoides, or Piles^ &c» &c,
on the 9th of February, 1801, applyed to
me, and within i month was cured.
Loss of Speech.
In the month of July, 1798, Mr. Figgins,
carpenter, (employed occafionally by Mr,
HairSy No. 29, St. James's -fbreet, London,)
when very hot, drank cold fmall beer, which,
not only took away his fpeech, caufed a ftop-
page in his nofe, but alfo affedled his hearing;
having taken many medicines, inefFedlually.
On Odtober the 31ft, 1799, he put him-
felf under my care; on the ifl; of February,
1800, the ftoppage in his nofe was entirely
removed, his deafnefs was almoft .cured, and
he had recovered the ufe of his fpeech.
Immoderate Flux of the Metises,
Miss E. S. aged 25, of Clifton-parifli,
near Briftol ; her difeafe, an immoderate flux
of the menfes, with which fhe had been af-
fiided
Immoderate Flu^< ofthe Menses^ &c. i^^f
Aided upwards of 4 years. Application was
madefor her to me, on the 20th of Odober,
1800, and within 3 months fiie was perfedly
cured.
Suppression ofthe Mense's,
Miss M, S, aged 30, St. Auguftine's-
parifh, Briftol ; her catamenia or menfes,
had been obftrudled upwards of 2 years ; had
taken many medicines without efFed. Oa
the 2d of December laft, 1800, applicatio:*
was made/or her to me. Within i o weeks[
perfectly cured lier.
"Lameness.
Mrs. udnn Davies, aged 30, came from
Monmouth, for better advice; fhc applyed
to me on the 14th of Odober lafl; ; for the
J 5 weeks preceeding, flie had taken great
quantities of medicines, was bliftered, &c.
L 2 &c.
148 Lameness.
Sec, inftcad of relieving, increafed her dif-
eafe. When (he came to mc, fhe was afflided
with violent fpafms in the ftomach and fides,
pains in the back and bowels, a dry cough,
and very lame, the right fide afFeded; on the
24th of January, cured.
I'be preceeding are a mall part of the cures
1 have effedled by medicines, but not even one of
them could 1perform by animal magnetism.
ADVICE,
149
Advice to those zuho visit the Sick.
Jt is better to be poor and well, than to
be rich and fick. Health and a found body is
much more valuable than gold, or the greateft
riches we poffibly can poffefs. There is no
wealth better than a found body, and no joy
greater than the joy of the heart ; therefore,
felicity is not to be meafured by wealth or
profperity, but by the foundnefs of the body
and of the mind for he only lives and is
well, that perfedly enjoys the benefit of both.
Advice to thofe who attend or vifit the
fick ; with inftrudlions to prevent infedion.
L 3 I have
150 Advice to those who visit the Sick.
I have already obferved that I deem the
ilomach to be the fountain of nine-tenths of
the difeafes that mankind is fubjed to;
hence, to prevent infed:ion, every method
fhould be taken to guard and fortify it
againfl danger. It is well known, that fome-
times contagious effluvias float in the atmof-
phere we breath in ; if our flomachs are
quite empty, the more liable are we to inhale
fuch infectious effluvias, which generate dif-
eafes; to prevent which, I recommend that
no perfon fliould go out of his houfe without
eating ; a cruft of bread and butter is what I
prefer ; for, butter being an animal oil, it
lines the coats of the ftomach and prevents
the inhaled noxious effluvia from penetrating
into the pores thereof ; the fkin anointed
with oil, will reflft poifon ; for if a cauflic is
fet thereon, it will not flick nor penetrate,
and when poifon is taken inwardly ; oil will
blunt the acrimony of the poifon ; will pre-
vent its entering into the pores and veins and
call it forth by vomit. Oil powered on wine
or
Advice to those who visit the SicL 151
or any other liquor, doth preferve it, that
it fhall neither grow dead nor be corrupted :
for it prevents any morbific, or other air,^
from penetrating; coriander feed, cloves,
cinnamon, zedoary, the rind of orange or
lemon newly cut; refined liquorice, camo-
mile flowers, gentian root ; either of thofe
that befl: fuits the inclination, are very falu-
brious. Swallowing a fmall quantity, wafli-
ing the mouth, temples, nofe, and fnuffing
up the fumes of prophylactic, or t&e vinegar
ofjour thieves 'y, or the vinegar of rue, have
been deemed good prefervatives againft in-
fedlion, being ufed before you enter the
room where the fick lie.
On entering fuch room where contagion
reigns, do not ftand between the patient and
the chimney, for the chimney draws, or at-
tracts the infedious effluvia from the patient
which you may inhale to your great injury.
When
152 Advice to those who visit the Sick.
When you alfo attend a fick perfon, do
vot ftand diredlly oppofite, but lideways, fo
as not to inhale the fick perfon's effluvia.
Whilft you attend, or vifit fuch fick per-
fon ; do not fwallow your fpittle, for it fre-
quently conveys the noxious effluvia into your
ftomach.
Nurfes who attend the fick ; ought fre-
quently to drink fmall quantities of brandy
or a ftrong decodtion compounded of gentian
root lefTer century and wormwood, with a
fmall mixture of fait of wormwood ; fuch
decodlion will deftroy the effeds of the in-
haled infedtious effluvia, and ftrengthen the
nurfes conftitution.
It is much better to guard againft, than to
be afflided with contagious difeafes.
J 1
STMPATHT,
153
»
SYMPATHY and ANTIPATHY
DEFINED.
I WILL now endeavour to define Sympa-*-
thy. Antipathy, the efFedls of Imagination,
and Nature :
Sympathy, is a natural inclination, a fellow
feeling, compaflion for another, or a confor-
mity of natural qualities, humours, tempera-
ments, &c.
Sympathy dQ^otts an indifpofition befalling
one part of the body, through the defedt or
diforderof another whether it be from the
influence of fome humour, or vapour lent
from
^54 Sympathyy and
from elfewhere or from the want of the
iniluence of fome matter necelTary to its
aftion.
Sympathy, between perfons nearly con-
ceded with each other, has had a wonderful
efFe«5t fuch as hufbands being a thoufand
miles diflant from their wives, have felt fen-
fations of their wives indifpofition. Lord
Verulam, who lived in the year 1625, obferves
in his writings j that being in Paris, two or
three days before his father's death, he
dreamed, that his father's houfe in the coun-
try, was plaiflered all over with black
mortar,
Antipathy, is a natural averfion or diflike,
or offence taken by one man againft another,
or thing, arifing fometimes from nature, and
fometimes from reafon.
There is a hidden and fecret property of
things ; fometimes, mankind at the firft in-
terview, become attached to each other by a
kind
Antipathy defined, 155
kind of sympathetic power. Sometimes, they,
take an Antipathy or aversion to each other,
and even without any particular reafon or
jufl caule ; I know not how to account for
it in any other manner, than that 1 conceive,
there is a kind of inftindl in the human frame,
when their complexions, or dilpofitions do
not accord j which I deem to be the caufe.
ENMITr
156
ENMITY amongst VEGETABLES,
•'X
iZ
Even the Vegetable, as well as the Ani-»
mal kingdoms do not accord with each other,
from which we may improve in knowledge,
for when we difcover that one thing does not
agree with another, we may juftly conceive,
phyfically; that one of them may be ufed as a
proper remedy againft the harms of the other;
for inftance, there is enmity between the Vine
and Coleworts, (Cokwort is a species 0} Brassi'-
C(jy Cabbage in botany, a genus of the tetradyna-
mia, seioquosa, class of plants,) for the Vine
winds itfelf with her tendrils about every
thing, excepting Coleworts, which fhe fhuns,
and turns herfelf another way, Coleworts are
good
Enmity amongst Vegetables. 157
good againft intoxication from the drinking
of wine, and a fmall quantity of white wine,
being mixed with the water, wherein Cole-
wort, or other greens are boiled, turn their
colour from a bright green to that of a bright
olive, and, let the very fame fpecies of greens
be boiled in fpring water only, they will re-
tain their bright green colour.
Ivy, is the bane of all trees, by twining
round them, and as it gradually gains
ftrength from nutriment and age, it incircles
the trunk, prevents the vegetable fluids and
juices from circulation, through the rine of
barks hence, the branchesare deprivcdof their
proper nourifhment, part of them wither and
decay.-It is alfo as great an enemy to Vines,
if not fubdued in proper time. Ivy, hedera in
botany, fis a genus of the pentandria monyginia
class of plants,) its qualities in medicines, are
drying, and aftringent, being taken inwardly
in great quantities, it becomes injurious to
the nerves and finews, by abforbing that
animal
158 Enmity amongst Vegetables,
animal fluid, intended by nature to nourifii
and fupport tbem. Plmy faith that the juice
of the berries prevent intoxication, and
helpeth thofe that fpit blood.
Rue, (a genus of the oBandria monogynia
class of plants,) is at enmity with hemlock.
Much rue being eaten, becometh extremely
hurtful to the conftitution, and poifonous,
when taken to excefs the juice of hemlock
corrects and expels it. Hence Vice Versa^
rue is good againft hemlock. (Hemlock is a
genus of the pmtandria, digynia class ofplants.
Numerous other Vegetables are at enmity
with each other. The influence of the Sun
and Moon over Vegetables, and indeed over all
other things, is inexpreffible. The Sun is the
governor of time, and the rule of life, every^
thing is perfected by the Sun, which is a
heavenly fire, and the light of life.
There is fuch a fympathy between the Sun
and plants, that the hcliotrophm or turnsole^
(a genus
Enmity amongst Vegetables. 159
fa genu? of the pentandrta monogymd class of
plantSy) openeth her leaves when the Sun
rifeth, and fliutteth them when the Sun
fetteth—fo, many other plants and flowers
follow the Sun, to receive its divine influ-
ence.
" Dr. Brooks informs us, that the Sun is a •
globe of liquid hre, is the centre of the uni-
verfe, is likewife the fountain of light and
heat ; the diameter of which, is equal to one
hundred diameters of the earth ; whofe
thicknefs, in plainer terms, is feven hundred
and ninety three thoufand miles; that its fur-
face is equal to ten thoufand times the fur-
face of the earth, and whofe folidity is a
million times as great.
The Earth is near eight thoufand miles in
diameter, and diftant from the Sun eighty-
one millions of miles.
The diameter of our Moon is reckoned to
be almoft two thoufand two hundred miles ;
her
i6o Enmity amongst Vegetables.
her magnitude, or rather her mafs, or th6
quantity of matter in her, with regard to the
Earth, is about one fortieth part.
The Moon which is but a fpeck, in com-
parifon of the other heavenly bodies, though
it feems fo near us, is two hundred and forty
thoufand miles diflant from us, and its fur-
face is about fourteen millions of fquare
miles. As the Moon is the nearefl to the
Earth of all the Planets, her motion is alfo
the quickeft, the complete revolution being
performed in about twenty-feven days, feven
hours, and three quarters. To this attendant
of the Earth, we are indebted for the flux and
reflux of the tides, twice in twenty-four
hours, which re-attended with fo many ad-
vantages, that mankind could hardly exiil
without them, fince the waters would then
become flagnated, and unfit for any of the
purpofes of human life."
The Moon is lefs powerful than the Sun,
but what with her own force, and the
ftrength
Enmity amongst Vegetables. 161
flrength which (he attracks from the Sun, (ho
works much, by reafon of her being neareft
to the Earth of all Planets. Antient philo-
fophers, remark, that trees and vegetables
planted during the increafe of the Moon,
grow flronger, and become more fruitful
than thofe planted in the wane.
V
That the Pomegranate will bring forth
fruit juft fo many years, as many days as the
Moon is old, when planted before the full.
If we cut our hair when the Moon is increaf-
ing, it will grow fafter than when the Moon
is in the wane.
M EFFECTS
l62
EFFECTS of IMAGINATION.
Imagination, is a power or faculty of
the mind, whereby it conceives, and forms
ideas of things, communicated to it, by the
outward organs of fenfe.
The late honourable Robert Boyle faid, that
there are many inftances of difeafes arising
from imagination, particularly where the dif-
eafe is greatly dreaded 3 adding, that he knew
a lady who had the fmallpox by this means ;
nor is it only in women, that imagination
has thefe efFeds ; for he tells us of a man
whofe hair was fuddenly changed colour,
from the fear of his going to be put to death.
Mr.
Effe^s of Imagination. 163
Mr. Boyle, alfo tells us of a lady, who wafhing
herfelf in a well, and fixing her eyes very at-
tentively upon the red pebble ftones in the
water, very foon after became pregnant, was
delivered of a child, whofe Ikin was plenti-
fully fpeckled with fpots of the colour and
magnitude of thefe ftones.
Damasceny (an Italian author) reports that
a woman having the hairy image of yohn the
Baptist in her chamber, was delivered of a
child that was all hairy. Hare lips, and the
different markson children, arejuftlyafcribed
to the imagination of the mother.
yacob was well acquainted with the force
of imagination, for to bring forth party co-
loured cattle. Jacob took him rods of greea
poplar, and of the hafel and chefnut trees ;
pilled white ftrakes in them, and made the
white appear which was in the rods. And
he fet the rods which he had pilled before
the flocks in the gutters, in the watering
M 2 troughs.
164 EffeEls of Imagination.
troughs, when the flocks came to drink
and the flocks conceived, and brought forth
cattle ring-fl:raked, fpeckled, and fpotted.
[Genesis, Chap. XXX.
Upon the fame principles, I conceive that
fwine and every other animal, when lodged
in fl:ies, or places with white roofs, and walls,
might be the means of producing a white co-
loured fpecies of its kind.
Helipdorus, (an ancient author) informs us
tkat an Ethiopean Queen, fa blackJ brought
forth Chariclea, a fair or white daughter the
caufe whereof, was fuppofed to arife, from
her having in her chamber, fome moft beau-
ful pictures of white people, which the every
day admired, with infinite pleafure and
amazement.
It is further obferved, that there was a
l^lack woman, who had a particular deflre to
be the mother of a Jair, or white fon for
which purpofe, {lie procured the image of a
white
EffeEls of Imagination* 165
*white boy, carved of marble, well proporti-
oned in every refpedt 5 her eyes and heart
were continually fixtuponitj fhe became
pregnant, and brought forth a son, alike to
the marble image. Many other fimilar cir-
cumftances are related, particularly, that the
Lacedemonians, when their wives became
pregnant, piSiures and images of the moft
beautiful and handfome young men, were
conftantly expofed to their views.
And which I humbly beg leave to fubmit
as a hint to my faircountry-women, for the
purpofe of the propagation of {ifpossible) a
more beautiful offspring.
M 3 NATURE
I
166
I
ssssi:riri I
NATURE DEFINED.
IN^ATURE, has feveral different figniiica-
tions j it being ufed for the author of nature,
whom fome fchoolmen call natura naturanSy
being the fame with God. By the nature ot
a thing, we fometimes mean its ellence, that
is the attributes which makes it what it is,
whether the thing be corporeal or not ; as
when we attempt to define the nature of a
fluid, or &c. Sometimes we confound that
which a man has by nature, with what accrues
to him by birth. Sometimes we take nature
for an internal principle of motion; as when
we fay, that a fione or any ponderous fub-
ftauce, thrown into the air, by nature falls
to
Nature defined. 167
to the earth. Sometimes we underftand, by
nature, the eftablifhed courfe of things.
Sometimes we take nature for an agregate
of powers belonging to a body, particularly
a living one ; in which fenfe phyficians fay,
that nature is ftrong, weak, or fpent; or that,
in fuch and fuch difeafes, natureleft to herfelf
will perform the cure. Sometimes we ufe the
term nature for the univerfe, or whole fyf-
tem of the corporeal works of God.
Nature, in which the works of the DI-
VINE BEING do fo confpicuoufly appear,
is the beginning of every thing, and whereby
all things confift.
Nature, is the mind or divine reafon, the
efficient of natural works, and the preferver
t)f things that be : which power can be af-
cribed only to God, and to Jesus Christ,
who is infeperably united with him. For, be
is the brightness of his Father s Glory, and the
express image of his person,
M 4 Zm
1 6 8 Nature defined.
Zeno Citticusy an ancient philofopher, held
two beginnings, viz. God and Matter ; the
one adive or efficient, the other the paffive
principle ; and I conceive, upon the founda-
tion, that, IN THE BEGINNING GOD
created the heaven and the earth, and the
earth being without form, and void, and dark-
nefs being upon the face of the deep, and the
Spirit of God moving upon the face of *
the
waters, muft have impreffed Zeno Ciiticus,
with the idea, that water was the paffivc prin-
ciple : For God, when by the Almighty
power of his Deity, had framed in due mea-
fure and order, the Heaven, the Sun, the
Moon, the Planets, the Stars, and the very
firft principle of things, the Elements; did
afterwards by the power of the Heaven and
Elements, ordain the different kinds of living
creatures, plants, and the innumerable vari-
ous fpecies of Mines, Minerals, and inanimate
beings every one in their feveral degrees,
that they might not be in the fame eftate and
condition with each other, that there was
^ given
Nature defined. . 1 6 ()
given to every living creature, its own difpa-
lition and natural inclination, that they n;ight
ad: in their different fpheres, agreeably to
will of the Divine Being. There was no
animated being, in tAis great univerfe, made
to be inadive or idle. Every thing was created
in the moft deliberate and Ikilful manner.
On the third day God faw that his handy
works were good, and on the fixth day, God
ended his work which he had made, and
beheld that it was very good,
[Hebrews, \st» V. —3^. C.
Every Plant, as alfo every Mineral, is pof-
feffed of its peculiar virtue. God has been
pleafed to make every thing proper for the
ufe of man, and even the fmallefl and mod
contemptible thing apparently in nature,
when minutely and attentively examined,
muft appear wonderful to a contemplative
mind. Whatfoever is contained in this huee
univerfe, and in Heaven, is indued with
a divine power for its peculiar operation ; ail
things
1 JO Nature defined.
things are moft admirably difpofed of in their
various fituations, and by a moft wonderful
viciflitude ; they all duly perform their dif-
ferent funftions and courfes in the moft re-
gular manner.
God enjoyned inferiors, to be ruled of
their fuperiors by a fet law j and was pleafed
of his infinite goodnefs and mercy, to tranf-
:mit by his divine and heavenly influence,
upon every thing, its own proper form, full
of much ftrength and activity ; and that there
might be a continual incrsafe amongft themi
he commanded all things : yielding feed to
produce it after its kind, the trees yielding
fruit, whofe feed was in itfelf, after its kind;
all the beafts, and every living creature upon
the earth, each after his kind.
God created man in his own image, and
after his own likenefs ; in the image of Gop
created he him : male and female created he
them. God bleffed them, and faid unto
them
Nature defined. 171
them, be fruitful and multiply, replenifh the
earth and fubdue it : and have dominion over
the fi(h of the fea, and over tfie fowls of the
air, and over every living thing that moveth
upon the earth. God gave every herb bear-
ing feed, and every tree in the which is the
fruit of a tree yielding feed, did he give, that
it fhould be for meat to man. And to every
beaft of the earth, and to every fowl of the
air, and to every thing that creepeth upon
the earth, wherein there is life, he gave every
green herb for meat. Hence it evidently ap-
pears, that a form of itfelf is not able to pro-
duce fuch effedls, but the reft alfo muft do
their part, yet are they not confounded toge-
ther, but they are fo knit among themfelves,
that one ftands in need of another's help
thus has the divine providence linked things
together in their ranks and orders, that all
things, might, by their due courfes, be de-
rived originally from God himfelf, and from
him receive their operations.
God
172 Nature dejined.
God was pleafed to create man, that he
might enjoy what had been given to him,
and that he fliould acknowledge God's di-
vine bounty, glorify his holy name, and fer-
vently, in the name of Jesus Christ, im-
plore God's affiflance, to take him under his
protection ; and to guide, govern, and di-
rect all his thoughts, words, deeds, and ac-
tionsi and to give him in this mortal life, fuch
things as might contribute towards a com-
fortable fupport and fubfiflence for himfelf
and family, alfo to enable him to affift the
afflided, and after his diflblution, for ever to
enjoy a ftate of eternal felicity.
God himfelf is invifible to us, human
mortals J yet by the world being fo wonder-
fully created ^ and the different fubftances
therein, moft miraculoufly formed ; teftifieth
by his works, that God may be both per-
ceived and underftood. And, as Cisero faith,
by the memory of things, fubtility of inven-
tion, quicknefs of motion, and by the ex-
ceeding
Nature defined. 173
ceeding beauty of virtue we know the force
of the mind, though we cannot fee it with
our eyes ; fo we perceive God, and that
eternal mind clearly by the works be hath
made, and efFedtually do we apprehend his
force and influence for his virtue is difFufed
through all things, and gives heat, fpirit and
life to all things.
The contemplation of nature, and her
works conveys fuch a variety of delights and
'
pleafures, by feeding and refrefhing our
minds and eyes, with fuch natural varieties,
as to raife our minds, to adore and glorify
God, our maker. If we revere men for
their heroic noble deeds and adtions ; how
much m.ore ought we to adore that Divine
Being, who protected fuch men in time of
battle, infpired them with wifdom to com-
mand, and fortitude to execute.
The Heaveriy Elements, rising and setting
of the Sun, Moony Stars, changes of day and
Right,
I
174 Nature defined.
night, the two equinoxes in Spring and Au-
tumn, by the revolution whereof, the mofl
beautiful flowers, and leaves of plants fade
and decay ; in the fucceeding Spring they
bud forth and refufcitate.
Thefearching out of things, fo far as our
comprehenfions will admit of, (but not to
dive beyond our reach, left we fhould be
loft) is extremely delightful, is the very
food of our fouls and minds, to enable us to
contemplate the works of nature. Let us
'
confider the internal parts of the human
frame, the powers of the natural faculties ;
the nerves arifing from the brain, the arte-
rial pipes from the heart, and the propagation
of the veins from the liver alfo the facul-
ties of the foul, whereby fhe doth perform
her functions, to which add, the iEtherial
fpirits, as the animal to the brain, the vital
to the heart, and the natural to the liver,
which nouiiftieth the body by its natural heat
and moifture; and affords flrength to per-
form
I
Nature defined. 1 75
form aaion. The body fhould therefore be
carefully and regularly refreflied with good
food, drink and fleep.
" For fleep is the fweet foother of our
labours, and the reftorer of our exhaufted
flrength. But the lofs of appetite and dif-
guft to our food, generally robs us of this
comfort.'* Dr, Mead.
All which, ftiould be ufed with modera-
tion, and the conftitution (which is very va-
riable in mankind) fliould be the grand dic-
tator in the ufc thereof.
Man being polTelTed of reafon, underftand-
ing and judgment, he is made capable of the
heavenly dodlrine and amongfl other ex-
cellent prerogatives, man obtained this privl-
ledge chiefly, that God having made other
creatures fpeechlefs, they are pofl'efl^ed of na-
tural jnterefl:, governed by their paflions,
without reafon or judgment. Man hath the
faculty of fpeech, whereby he can commu-
nicate
ij6 Nature defined.
nicate unto others, his mofl: fecret
thoughto ; and is thereby enabled to praife
and magnify his Creator. God wants
nothing that we pofTefs or enjoy, all that he
requires from us, is love, obedience to his
commands, and gratitude for what he has
beftowed upon us.
The earth next after God, is the parent
of all things 3 for the life of all things is de-
rived from the moifture and fertility fhe con-
tains. An univerfal connexion exifts be-
tween all particles of a firailar nature
throughout our globe the mafs of atoms of
which it is compofed, whether they arc
deemed to be under the appellation of men,
bcafts, birds, fiflies, trees or vegetables, they
are all particles of the fame original mafs,
and are all employed in their different func-
tions, in the work of forming, nourifhing,
decompofmg, and of again refufcitating each
other.
The
Nature defined: 177
The thlckeft flones of fruit trees, (which
I will denominate the body) mufl: die and
rot, before the kernels, (which 1 deem their
fouls) can arife from their graves, and produce
offsprings of their fame fpecies : the fame
with feeds and roots, and if feeds of diverfe
forts are fown together unmixed in the earth,
every f^ed after its kind, will again arife in.
its proper feafon, and in its own natural form.
All w^hich evidently points out the resur-
rection of the BODY from deatpi to
LIFE.
It is as natural for fome men to defirc
knowledge as bodily fuftenance, the one
being the food of the mind, as the other
is of the body ; and the appetites of both
being homogeneous to the principles from
which they proceed , their tendency to their
feveral objeds, is as eager as the faculty
which produces it, is ndive^ fo that though
both flow from the fountains of one and the
fame nature; yet the one refling in a natural
^ N repletion.
178 Nature defined.
repletiony muft be acknowledged more limited,
than the other, which admits of no bounds or
satiety.
But though knowledge be man's natural
defire ; yet it is not alike fought after by all,
but in different forts and degrees. Some,
whofe conftitutions have difpofed them to a
habit of long fenfuality, and others whom
continual difappointments have baffled into
a neutrality and indifferency, as to ad:ion i
think it fufficient for man to know, either
how to live with pleafure and. epicurean eafe,
or to die with affecfled haughtinefs and ftoical
apathy neither of the two regarding fuch
knowledges as to delight curiofity, or are
ufeful to the fociety of mankind.
Others again, whofe fpirits ajid contem-
plative ideas are refined, think their time ill
fpent, unlefs they can be fo able to anatomife
nature, as to defcribe the caufes of things,
which either never did exifl but in appearance,
or if they do, are far more profitably under-
ilood by their effedis than principles. Such
Nature defined. 1 79
Such therefore, whom age, learning, and
experience, have Hcentiated to be phyficians
of the mind, have taken fome latitude in pre-
fcribing diets, according to the various con-
ftitutions of men ; allowing thofe whom a
natural disposition inclines to the contempla-
tion^of fuch ftudies as may feed their curiofi-
ties. Mathematics, Chemistry, Anatomy, Phy^
siology, Physiogmony, Dietetics, and History,
all which, combimd togethery conftitute the
Phyfician«
N 2 msroRT
i8o
idi®i®|^|<CSuSS>l®l®i®i®i
HISTORY DEFINED.
BUT OF HISTORY IT MAY BE SAID, THAT
Omne iuJit fun5iumy 71am miscuit utile dulcu
Horace-
Itis fo pleafing and inftruAive to men of all
eftates, ages, qualities, fedls, and conditions i
fo agreeable to the inclination and fuitable to
the humour of all who thirft after knowledge;
fo delightfuHn the perufal, and profitable in
the retention, affording fatisfadion to the
aged, pleafure to the young, and experience
to both ; comfort to the difconfolate, refrefh-
ment to the weary, and eafe to difcompofed
minds 5
History defined,
'
181
minds fclacing the tedious hours of penfive
watching, or othervvife charming anxious
thoughts into a fweet and gentle repofe ^ be-
ing never out of leafon, whilftmen have life,
and the world a being; that amongft the ele-
gies it hath received from the learned pieces
of antient and modern writers, it may be
jurtly accounted^ rather the recreation than
the application of a fludious man; judg-
ing idienefs, the lethargy of the mind, no
ways to be fed, but to be cured by difcipline
and animadverfion. The faculties of the
mind, when fatigued and almoft exhaufted
with more internal employment, find adlual
repofe, are recruited and reftored to vigour
by Hiftory, which proves an agreeable amufe-^
ment, and relaxation to the mind.
By Hiflory we become acquainted with the
characters of men, the marks, fources, and
effeds of their paffions and prejudices, the
power and changes of their cuXloms which
lays a foundatiou not only for general pru-
N 3 dence.
i82 - History defined.
dence, but for that particular kind, which
the circumltances and fituation of each man
requires, and teaches us to make other men's
experience our own, to profit by it; and to
learn wifdom from their misfortunes.
Philofophy, pradlical Mathematics, Phyfic,
Chemiftry, and indeed all other Sciences, have
recourfe to Hiftory, for the force of demon-
flration is founded on experiments ; which
would make but a very indifferent figure, if
the afliflance of other men's experiments by
the means of Hiftory were excluded.
Hiflory, is that telefcope by which we fee
into diftant ages, and take up the anions of
our forefathers, with as much evidence as the
news of the lafl Gazette ; it is the mirrour
that reprefents the various tranfaftions of
times paft, and fhews us the drefs of antiquity
according to which we m^y redify or adjufl
our prefent fafhions ; it is the pande6ts of
gentle and eaiy inftitutions and laws, which
ought
History defined,' 183
ought to oblige us as much, if not more
flrid:ly to a conformity, than the preceptive
fand:ions of Kings feeing the authority of
the one does but inculcate our duty, and the
other gives us innumerable inflances of the
feveral rewards of virtue, and puniflnncnts of
vice; it is, in a word, the laft will and tefta-
ment of our deceafed progenitors ; which
though it does not exprefly leave us a parti-
cular legacy, yet it fhews us how we may be
polTefTed of their inheritance ; and according
as we follow their example, live in refutation
or ignominy,
*
The ruder ages of the world, who were
unacquainted with letters, and confequently
ignorant of refined Sciences, thought History
next to their religion, the only ufeful and
proper ftudy of mankind; and judging the
forming of the manners, and regulating the
adlions of man, to be the chief duty and care
of focieties ; they thought documents, pre-
cepts, and laws, too weak a means to work
N 4 fb
1 84 History defined.
fo great efFe6l, without they were confirmed
and ftrengthened by the examples of their
predeceffors ; to which prone nature, even
amongfl the moft barbarous, does willingly
render an implicit veneration : and therefore
feeing their libraries were their ?nemories, and
Kvords their chara^erst fo songs and rude-
rhlmesy were the only books whereby their
Bards and Druids inflruded their children
in the hiftory of former ages, making the
famous adions of their anceftors fo much the
more the pattern of their conduct and man-
ners, as it was the fubjedl of their innocent
melody and mirths
But when the SUPREME BEING was
pleafed to gratify the induflry of man with
'
the invention of letters no fubjeft feemed
to the ancients, fo worthy of the prerogative
of being tranfmitted to poflerity, as that of
Jlistory.
And indeed, the moil ancient that can be
found of their writings, is of that kind.
Whether
History defied, 185
Whether it was that they knew no immor-
tality but that of fame; or found no better
way to provide with fecurity for iheir off-
spring, in whom they were to live to pofte-
rity, than by handing down to them the me-
thods and honeft coarfes, by which fome at-
tained to honour wealth and command,
wiiilft others, on the contrary ways, lived
and died in obscurity, poverty, and contempt.
Whatever fatisfadlion dying men maj
have in the profpedl of a lading name, it is
certain, the living mull; reap great benefit
from the regifter of their aSiions for would
a king have meafures to govern ; a fubjcLl:
how to obey ; a flatefman how to give coun-
cil j a judge and magiftrate how to execute
juftice; a hufband and father how to com-
mand and cherifli a wife and children how
to love, honour, and obey; and indeed all
conditions of men how to perform mutual
good offices in every kind of fociety.
Tlhtoryy
1 8 6 History defined.
History^ and efpecially the trueft and moft
ancient of all, the Holy Scriptures, is that
repofitory from whence we may draw the
trueft maxims ; for all duties, exemplified
with the good or bad fuccefies of thofe who
have followed or tranfgrefiTed the fame.
One of the greateft arguments for the truth
of chriftianity, is drawn from the resurrec-
tion OF OUR SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST ;
the circumftances of which are handed down
to us in fo plain and diftindl a manner by
the Evangelifts, as alfo by Civil History, as
makes the evidence of this important truth
amount to a demonflration,
A nev/s paper in this Kingdom, known by
the name of Gazette, is deemed to be the only
authentic conveyance of real fads, fuch alfo
are the Sacred and Civil History we pofiefs.
In the History of our own country, it is re-
corded that King Charles the I. reigned in
the year 1622, and that he was beheaded in
the
History defined. 187
the year 1 648. That Queen Elizabeth com-
menced her reign in the year 1558, and in
1588, the S p a n i rti rmad a, deejned. mvincihle^
was defeated, and trophies lodged in the
Tower of London as a memento of luch
heroic actions. About the year of our Lord,
455, the Saxcn Heptarchy commenced, and
continued 372 years, all which 1 believe, no
man ever attempted to contradiift.
Civil or Simple History informs us, that in
the year, 3980, after the creation of the
world, OBavian Augustm Coesar, Juhus Cce^
sar's fifter's fon, reigned as Emperor of
Rome ; that in the 42d year of his Reign,
the Prince of Peace,- Jesus Christ, was
born, when was univerfal peace.
In the year of our Lord 17, Claudius Ti6e^
rius Nero, was ordained by Augustus for his
fuccelTor ; in his time the world's Saviour
was' crucified ; about five years after which
time, the Golpel was planted in Britain.
Hence
i88 History defined.
Hence have I endeavoured regularly, to trace
back the Civil, which is confirmed by Sacred
Hiftory, and leaves not a doubt remain of
the truth of our Saviour's History,
I
ON
ON THE
RESURRECTION.
T
XT has been, and is now difputed and be-
lieved by many, that every part of the body o£
every individual human being after death,
being converted into dull or earth, which
mixt withother innumerable different bodies,
can never be divided or feparated from other
dufts, fo as to appear materially in their owa
original folid form, endued with every prin-
ciple of life.
Again, they fay, that a man who has loR
a leg or an arm, at the diftance of four
thoufand miles or upwards from where he
was
I
.1 go On the Resurredlon.
was buried, or that his body being devoured
by various different fiflies, or fundry carni-
verous animals, how is it poffible that every
part of that man can be collefted, and re«
flored to his own original form and life ?
In anfwer, I will endeavour to refute fuch
delufive dccftrines, apparently^ to me, as be-
lieving in the exprefled words of our Saviour
Jesus Christ, which I will endeavour to
tranfcribe in regular courfe ; but firft, I
mufl: beg leave to introduce a few chemical
experiments, which are well known to every
perfon verfed in chemiftry, and which I
truft, will alfo prove the refurrection of the
body.
I mufl again fay, let one single gram of
gold be melted in one pound of silver, fuch
grain of gold will be equally divided in the
found of silver-, and become apparently killed
by, and buried in the silver; fimilarly I con-
ceive to a juft man*s body, made perfe^ft by
repentance and good works, who being dead
and
On the ResiirreBion. 191
and concealed from our fight by being buried
in the earth ; and if {nch poimd of st'iver be
diflblved in aquafortis, the 5760th part of the
fame pure gold, without the leafl diminution
ofweight, will be found at the bottom of the
folution : fuch is the great sympathy betvyeen
gold and siher, which blends them fo won.-
derfully and minutely together ; and upon
the fame principle, if one grain of gold be
melted in one hundred or more pounds oj silver,
they will become minutely blended with each
other, and by the above operation the grain
of gold can be feparated without the least di-
minution.
Again, lead when ufed for pharmacy and
painting, is prepared in the following man-
ner : melt lead in an unglazed broad earthen
vefTel, ftir it continually with a clean iron
inftrument, it firft is calcined into a erev
powder, which is called calx of lead-, flir it*
on in the fame manner, it will then become
yellow and is calfed masticot : after, let it be
put
192 On the Resurreclion.
put into a reverberatory furnace, it will fur-
ther calcine, and become of a fine red colour,
which is called minium or red lead.
From thefe experiments, may we not com-
pare lead to childhood ? after, when calx of
lead, to manhood ? after, when it becomes
masticoty to a declining ftatc of nature ? and
laftly minium, to a total diffolution of all
vital powers, commonly called death ?
Suppofing we fay, that minium or lead is
altered by the various operations of the fire,
as being in a moft extraordinary manner
changed, from its original and natural flate,
to ftates fo extremely different 5 and that we
can again reflore it to its natural flate as lead,
may not this appear equally as extraordinary
to the unbelievers of the Holy Scriptures, as
to thofe unacquainted with chemiftry ?
Minium, by the addition of a flux prepared
from the vegetable kingdom, and by the
fame degrees of heat by which it was killed
or decompofed, is reftored to life again and
to
On the Resurrecl'ion. 193
to its original purified ftate. HencCj another
proof of the Refurredion.
Take muftard feed, which is one of the
fmalleft of all feeds, mix and bury it with
various other feeds, they will all die or de-
cay ; and at the proper feafon they will arife,
each fpecie in its own original and natural
form.
Again they fay, that if all mankind will
be raifed from the dead on the day of Refur-
revftion, they will be much more numerous
than the blades of grafs upon the face of the
earth; in that cafe what is to be done with
them, or where are they to go to ? how can
Heaven be large enough to contain them ?
In anfwer, / conceive from our Saviour's
expreffion that the just only made so, by repen-
tance and good works will arise from the dead
and inherit the kingdom of Heaven, that
God having made the univerfe ; that as this
earth is only about eight thoufand miles in
O diameter.
I
ig4 On the Resurreclion,
diameter, and is diflant from the Sun about
eio;htv millions of miles 1!! and as new
planets have lately been difcovered, God can
deftroy this fmall, in comparifon to other
globes and planets, and erect others in fuch
an extent of fpace as eighty millions of miles
from the Sun ; for whatever God pleafeth to
do, he can perform. God is eternal and
free from decay ; he was pleafed to make us
after his image and likenefs, fo the sot^l of
man as partaking of the divine effence, is im-
mortal aiid shall never die the love of God
towards man, hath effe(5led fo much, that
all things are communicated unto us by
Christ, who was pleafed to fubmit himfelf
to be a man to fuffer death for us, and to ad-
mit us members of his body, of his flefh,
and of his bones. Hence, our condition is
(if we a5i properly) alike to his, and we are
coheirs with him : whence it is that what is
cxprefTed in Christ, ihall be exprefied in
man. Christ is eternal, and will fubfift
eternally, and man by him may obtain the
fame
On the ResurrcSlion. 195
fame privilege; Christ rofe and conquered
death, he being the Author, prince and firft
fruits of fo great a triumph, by virtue of him,
all jusi men made ferfeB will be raifed with
their bodies united to their fouls, to partici-
pate of the fame eternal felicity with him.
One thoufand fix hundred and thirty-five
years after God was pleafed to make the
world 'y he faw that the wickednefs of man-
kind was fo great, as to determine God to
deftroy whom he had created both man and
beaft from off the face of the earth, for it
repented him that he had made them. But
Noah found grace in the fight of the Lord>
and Noah v/alked with God, and God
looked upon the earth, and beheld that it
was corrupt and the Lord faid that he
would dertroy man whom he had created, and
every living thing upon the earth.
And God ordered Noah to make himfelf
an ark of certain dimenfions, fufficiently large
O 2 to
1 96 On the Resurreclion,
to contain Noah, andhisfons, and his wife^
and his fons wives ; and of every living thing
of all flefh, two of every fort, both male and
female to be taken into the ark, to keep them
alive, with food fufRcient for them accor-
dingly Noah a(fled agreeably to the com-
mands of God. Genesis, Chap. VI,
God was pleafed to inform Noah, that
after feven days, he would caufe it to rain
upon the earth forty days and forty nights
and that he would deftroy every living crea-
ture that he had made, from off the face of
the earth. After feven days, the windows,
or flood gates of Heaven, were opened. And
the rain was upon the earth forty days and
forty nights. The waters being increafed,
bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the
earth ; and all the high hills that were under
Heaven, were covered : and every living
creature was deftroyed, which was upon the
face of the ground, Noah only remained
alivCy and they that were with him in the
ark.
On the Resurreclion. 197
ark. And the waters prevailed upon the
earth an hundred and fifty days, fGenesis,
Chap. VII. J In this instance, did not God
by his Ahnighty power adl according to his
promii'e, and perform wiiat the whole uni-
verfe could neither refift nor counteracft ?. —
Was not his omnipotent power fimilar to a
potter, who worketh in clay, which when
brought into form, if he doth not like it, he
is able to deftroy and make other forms.
Or to a cafler of metals, fhould the form
not pleafe, cannot he break that form and
from the fame metal produce other forms
more pleafing ?
As God by his omnipotent power, was
pleafed to make the world and its inhabi-
tants; he had equally the fame power of de-
llroying them, when he fhould be pleafed
to deem it neceffary, and according to his pro-
mife which he fully performed. God prefer-
ved Noah and his family, &c. only; all other
living creatures upon the face of the earth,
G op was pleafed to deflroy, God
J gS On the Resurrection,
God eftablifhed with Noah, and his fens
after him, a covenant (Gen, ().) with them,
that there fhouid not any more be a flood to
deflroy the earth. That his bow, frainbowJ
Ihould be fet in the clouds as a token of fuch
covenant, for God's remembrance. Which,
as the rainbow frequenily appears, is a further
clear proof of the authenticity of the Holy
Scriptures; and that whatever God or his
Son Jesus Christ, who is the fame with
God, do promife, will be performed; and
that his power is irrefiftible, for with God,
all things are poflible.
When yob was afflicted with the mofl
miferable calamities, he comforted himfelf
with this certain hope ;
** I know that my
Redeemer liveth, and that he Hiall ftand at
the latter day upon the earth."
Job, Chap. XIX. Ver. 25.
And though after my fkin, worms deftroy
this body, yet iu my flefli ihall I fee God.
Ver. 26.
The
On the Rcsurredioiu 1 99
The Prophet Ifaiah fays, Thy dead men
fliall live, together with my body fliall they
arife. Awake and fing ye that dwell in
duft, for thy dew is as the dew of herbs,
tiiC earth fhall caft out the dead."
Isaiah, Chap. XXVI, Ver, 19.
Our Saviour Jesus Christ faid, when
he teached to feed the poor : Thou flialt
be bleffed ; for they cannot recompenfe thee,
for thou £ha!t be recompenfed at the refur-
redion." St. Luke, Chap. XIV. Vcr, 14.
Neither can they die any more : for they
are equal to the Angels and are the children
of God, being the children of the refurrec-
tion. ^
hiike. Chap. XX. Vcr. 36.
When Christ reproved the people flock-
ing after him, fiid, And this is the Father's
will which hath fent me, that of all which
he hath given me, I ilionld lofe nothing, but
fhould raife it up again at the lafl day.
St. 'John, Chap. V. Vcr. 39.
O 4 And
200 On the Rcsurredion.
*« And this is the will of him that fent me,
that every one that fceth the Son, and be-
lieveth on him, may have everlafting life :
and I v^ill raife him up at the lafl day."
Ver, 40.
" No man can come to me, except the
Father v^hich hath fent me, draw him, and
I will raife him up at the lafl day."
Ver. 44.
** Verily, verily, I fay unto you, he that be-
lieveth on me hath everlafting life."
Ver. 47.
When Christ inftituted his Supper, as
they were eating, **
Jesus took bread, and
bleffed it, and break it, and gave it to the
difciples, and faid, take eat, this is my body."
Matthew, Chap, XX VL Ver. 26.
And he took the cup, and gave thanks,
and gave it to them, faying, drink ye all of
it." Ver. 27.
For
On the ResiirreHion. 201
" For this is mv blood of the new tefta-^
ment which is filed for many, for the re^
miffion of fins." Fer. 28.
Jesus faid unto them, verily, verily,
I fay unto you, except ye eat the flefli of the
Son of Man, and drink his blood, ye have no
life in you. St, 'John, Chap. V. Ver, 53.
•
Whofo eateth my flefli, and drinketh my
blood, hath eternal life; and I w^ill raife him
up at the lafl day. Ver, 54,
For my fiefli is meat indeed, and my blood
is drink indefJ. Ver» 55,
He that eateth my fle(h, and drinketh my
blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him. Ver» c6.
As tc'= living Father hath fent me, and I
live by the Father; fo, he that eateth me,
even he fhall live by me. Ver. 57.
This is that bread which came down from
Heaven, not as your Father's did eat manna,
and
202 On the Resurredlion.
and are dead ; he that eateth of this bread,
fball live for ever. Ver. 58.
I am the hving bread, which came down
from Heaven : if any man eat of this bread,
he fhall live for ever : and the bread that I
will give is my flefh, which I will give for
the life of the world. Chap. VI. Ver. 59.
*' But I fay unto you, I will not drink
henceforth of this fruit of the vine ; until
that day when I drink it new with you in my
father's kingdom." Ver* 29.
** Whofoever fhall be afhamed of me, and
of my words, of him fhall the Son of Man be
afhamed, when he fhall come in his own
glory, and in his father's, and of the Holy
Angels." (S/. huhi Chap. IX. Ver, £6.
Alfo I fay unto you, whofoever fhall con-
fefs me before men, him fhall the Son of Man
sJfo confefs before the Angels of God."
St. Luke, Chap. XIL Ver. 8.
But
On the Resurredion. 203
But he that denieth me hefore men, fhall
be denied before the Angels of God. Ver, 9,
When Christ was crucified, one of (the
twoJ malcfadors which were hanged, fat
the same time) railed on him, faying, if thou
be Christ, fave thyfelf and us.
St. Luke, Chap, XXUL Ver, 39.
But the other anfwering, rebuked him,
faying, doft not thou fear God, feeing thou
art in the fame condemnation? Ver. 40.
And we indeed juftly for we receive the
due reward of our deeds 3 but this man hath
done nothing amifs. Ver, 41.
And he faid unto Jesus, Lord, remem-
ber me when thou comefl into thy kingdom.
Ver. 42.
And Jesus faid unto him, verily I fay unto
thee. To day (halt thou be with me in para-
dife. Ver, 43.
Froii^
204 On the Resurredlion*
"From these words of our Saviour, I verily
believey that nvhen good men die, their souh
are immediately transported into paradise,
where they enjoy great happiness, and which
will be completely eternalized on the day of
the resurre^ion,
Jesus, when he had cried again with a
loud voice, yielded up the ghoft,
,S/. Matthew, Chap. XXVIL Ver, 50.
And behold, the veil of the temple was
rent in twain, from the top to the bottom
and the earth did quake, and the rocks rents
Fer. 51.
And the graves were opened and many
bodies of Saints which llept, arofe, Ver, 52.
And came out of the graves after his refur-
redlion, and went into the holy city, and ap-
peared unto many. Ver, 53.
Which 1 believe to be a further cofifrmation
of the resurreBion of the bodies of men madejust
by repentance and good works. Now
On the Resurredion. 205
Now when the Centurion, and they that
were with him, watching Jesus, faw the
earthquake, and thofe things that was done,
they feared greatly, faying, truly this was
the Son of God. J^er, 54.
After Christ's refurredion from the dead,
then the eleven difeiples went away into
Gallilee, into a mountain, where Jesus had
appointed them.
St. Matthew, Chap, XXVIIL Ver. 16.
And when they faw him, they worjfhipped
him: but fome doubted. Ver, 17.
Thomas, one of the twelve, called Di-
dymus, was not with them when Jesus
came.
St, John, Chap. XX, Ver. 24.
The other difeiples therefore faid unto
him, we have feen the Lord. But he faid
unto them, except I fliall fee in his hands
the print of the nails, and put my finger into
the
2o6 071 the ResurreSlion,
the print of the nails, and thrull my hand
into his fide, I will not believe. Ver. 25.
And after eight days again his difciples
were within, and Thomas with them: then
came Je'sus, the doors being (hut, and flood
in the midfl, and faid, peace be unto you.
Ver. 26.
Then faid he to Thomas, reach hither thy
finger, and behold my hands and reach
hither thy hand, and thrufl it into my fide,
and be not faithlefs, but believing. Ver, 27.
And Thomas anfwered, and faid unto him,
my Lord and my God. Ver, 28.
Jesus faid unto him, Thomas, becaufc
thou hafl feenme, thou hafl believed; bleffed
are they that have not feen, and yet have be-
lieved. Ver, 29;
And many other figns did Jesus in the
prcfence of his difciples, which are not
written in this book. Ver, 30.
But
Oil the ResiirreElion: 207
But thefe are written that ye might be-
lieve that Jesus is the Christ the Son of
God, and that believing ye might have life
through his name. Ver. 31.
And Jesus fpake unto them faying, all
power is given unto me in heaven and in
earth. Ver» 18.
Let your light fo fhine before men, that
they may fee your good works, and glorify
your father which is in heaven.
St, Matthew, Chap, V. Ver, 16,
Whatfoever ye would that men fhould do
unto you, even fo do unto them : for this is
the law and the prophets. Chap, VII, Ver, 12.
While we have time let us do good unto,
all men 3 and efpecially unto them that are.
of the houfehold of faith.
Gallilcc, Chap, VI. Ver. 10.
The hour is coming, in the vvhich all
that are in the graves (hall hear my voice.
St, Johriy Chap, V, Ver, 28. And
2o8 On the Resurreflion,
And (hall come forth ; they that have
done good, unto the refurredlion of life ; and
they that have done evil, unto the refurrec-
tion of damnation, Fer. 29.
Verily, verily, I fay unto you, if a man
keep my faying, he fhall never fee death.
St. Jo/jn, Chap. Vni. Ver. 5 1
Heaven and earth {hall pafs away, but my
words fhall not pafs away.
St, Mark, Chap. XIIL Ver. 3 1
AUTHENTIC
209
—«i«>i®i®i®I<S2SS2*'l®i®'®i®'<='^
AUTHENTIC RELATIONS.
There is a Pillar eredted in the Market-
place at Devizes in Wiltfliire, with the un-
der-written infcription thereon> viz.
" The following authentic Relation is to
deter all perfons from calling down the
vengeance of God, or taking His Holy
Name in vain,
*' Thurfday, January the 7th, 1753, Ruth
Pierce, of Pottern, agreed with three other
women to buy a fack of wheat. One of the
three collecfling the money and difcovering
fome wanting, demanded it of Ruth Pierce,
who faid (he had paid her fharc, and raflily
wifhed file might drop down dead if flie had
not ! which fhe instantly did on repeating her
P wish^
210 Authentic Relations.
wish, with fome money concealed in her
hand ; to the amazement and terror of the
crowded market.'*
Dublin, April 4, 1799*
** A fingular circumftance recently oc-
curred, on a trial of a capital nature in Naas.
On charging the Jury, the Learned Judge,
with that humanity which the mild fpirit of
our laws inculcates, obferved that the vital
charge againll the prifoner refled on the oath
of a man whofe credibility was impeachable,
and as they could not remove doubt from
their minds, he inftru(fted them to acquit the
prifoner. The Jury however returned a ver-
di6l Guilty, and the Judge, who highly dif-
approved of the verdidl, began to expoftulate,
when the evidence, who remained in court,
appeared dreadfully {hocked, dropped dowa
;ind instantaneously expired.'*
^be Power of God,
HENCE, Can man perform fuch a^^s as
, the above ? No. Can
The Power of God. 211
Can man withold the rain or fnovv that
falleth, or caufe it to rain or fnow; or can
he withhold the rain from one city and caufe
it to rain upon another city? No.
Can man withhold frofl, or hail from fal-
ling; or caufe it to freeze, or make hail to
fail? No.
Can man prevent the wind from blowing,
or caufe it to blow : or can he chani^e the
blowing of the wind from Eafl to Well, or
from North to South or can he flill ftorms,
whirlwinds and hurricanes? No.
Can man prevent or caufe the rageing of
the fea, and prevent or caufe the ebbing and
lowing of the tide ? No.
Can man prevent or caufe the elements to
produce thunder and lightning ? No.
All thofe th ings and much viorCi God ciilyy
by his omnipotent, everiafting and irrefidibie
power, is able to perform.
P 2 Man
212 The 'Power of God,
I
Man is like to vanity: his days aj-e as 3
fliadow thatpaffeth away.
^0 Deists, Atheists, ^c,
Thofe with many other proofs which could
be added, with what I have feleded from
Sacred Hiftory, the truest and most ancient
"will, I truft, convince Deists, Atheists, and
Unbelievers of the Holy Scriptures [which
never were refuted) that there is a GOD,—
Jesus Christ his only begotten Son, Our
BlelTed Saviour and Redeemer, and the
Holy Ghost (the Third Perfon in the Tri-^
nitv) which I conceive is meant the Di-
vine Power and Spirit of God poured down
upon fuch as feek after it, which fandifies,
affifts, and influences them to perform thofe
fpiritual duties of fmcere prayer and thankf-
giving, whereby the faith, praftice of doing
good works, and obedience to the will of
our Maker, are Jdrengthened, confirmed
and made acceptable, and prove that God's
Omnipotent Power is irrefiftible.
FINIS.
INDEX.
A
A Page.
y± DVICE to those who visit the sick * - . 149
Ague, or intermitting fever 13'-
Aniynal Magnetism, history thereof ^
Animal Magnetism, an antient system^ abandoned by the
learned, near a Century ago., mm 7
Animal Magnetism, at its height - 18
Animate and inanimate beings attached to each other .... 30
Anus, down falling of ....... . 141
Antipathy defned. « 154
Angina, or quinsy 127
AscaridcSy sm.all. worms in the Anus . _ - 139
Ascites, a dropsical disease 44
Atmosphere composed of Atoms 21
Atmospherical nerves of sound , 31
Atmospherical nerves of light 3i
Atoms, uses explained 35
AtrophyJ
a consumptive disease 104
B
Balsam of Tolu, sucked into the lungs jqi
jBelly, distended ^. 228
Mrs. Diana Beavan, of the Rheumatism 84
Mrs. B Bilious complaint. .j, 233
^ John
214 Index,
Page.
7c/j« Bennett, an ulcerated Leg 122
Mrs. B Scrophula 124
Mrs. B ...... Jaundice 138
Belly, distended 128
Belly, distended. 128
Bilious disease 138
Bilious disease 138
Bleeding, when injurious 93
Blood, the support of Life 97
Blood, thickness of 98
Blood, spitting of 99
Bloody Flux 128
Black Q^ueen, brought forth a white Daughter l64
Black Woman, brought forth a white Son l65
Bloody Flux ^ 128
Blood, spitting of 137
Boney foundation 25
Sir Robert Boyle, his experiments 27
Bodies surrounded hy their peculiar ntmotpherfs . ....... 28
Mrs. Bradley, Spasmodic ajft6lions 58
John Brewer, Consumption 113
Mr. William Brooks, scarlet Fever and sore Throat . 1 . . 133
Captain Bullock, Consumption fatrophyJ 115
Mrs. Burd, contracted Sinews 130
Mrs. Burd, Dropsy and Gout 49
Mrs. Precilla Burgess, spitting of Blood .._ 137
C
Thomas Cary, scalled Head 120
Ann Cary, Leucophlegmatia, or a general swelling of the
zohoU Body,^ »-..- 43
Miss
V
I
Index. .
215
Page:
Miss C Chlorosis^ or green Sickness 135
Catavienia, or Menses obstruEled 1'17
G. C. Spasms ^2.
Sarah Chapman, epileptic fits 70
Cholera Morbus - 12-7
Chorea SanBi Viti, or St. Vitus's Dance 85—86
Cholera Morbus 127
Commissioners opinion of Animal Magnetism 11
Commissioners names 1^
Component particles of man defined^ 25
Contracted Sinews 13Q
Consumption, rapidly commencing 143
Colczi'orts prevent intoxication ,. 157
Contemplation of nature and her works 1/3
Consumption defined 8/
Consumptive cures effected 1 10—1 11 —112 —113
Cooks, Butchers, &c. how they become corpulent 2Q
Cough and Asthvia Il6
Cough, Hooping 118
^ohn Corier, Gravel 130
Thomas Cullimorc, Gout 80
Credulity of mankind ly
Isabella Curtis, Dropsy 47
D
William Daniel, Hooping Cough ^ \\g
Ann Davies, Lameness and Spasms 147
Ann Davies, violent dry Cough Wj .
Deslon consented to disclose the principles of Animal Mag-
netism 11
DemainauduCy when delivered Lectures in Bristol 13
P 4 Deslon's
V
2i6 Index:
Deslon's success in getting money 1/
Deafness — 134
Dropsy, dissertation thereon , 43
Dropsy, causes oj 45
Dropsy, cures of 47—48 4g
Dropsy aUd Gout 4()
E
Earth, next after God 1/6
M. E Rheumatism 85
Effects of Imagiyiation 1 62
EJluvias emitted by Animals, Vegetables and Minerals . . 28
Mary Ellis, swelled Legs and violent Itching 125
Mr. Rees Else, Spasms 65
Empyema defned. - 100
Enmity amongst Vegetables - 156
Epileptic Fits 70—71
Epileptic Fits, ajli^ed zvith 36 years 71
Erysipelas, or St. Anthony's Fire II9
Experiment 7, Sii- Robert Boyle's . . . a .. . ... - -i.....,, 27
Eyes, Sore up
F
Face and Gums swelled - - 126
Fever, Scarlet. --m —- 132
Fever, Ardent 132
Fever, Putrid and Malignant 133^
Rachael Field, Consumption 114
Miss F 115
Mrs. F ... Consumption - 144
Mrs, A, F.. ^^Incontinence of UrinCm .mtmmtm mm, m mm 129
Mr.
index^ 217
Page.'
Jllr. John Figgi7iSy Loss of Speech., ..77 146
Fits, remarkable cure of 72
Fire, how generated . 20
i'orm, of itselff must be supported by dhother's help 171-
Dr. Benjamin Franklin, at the head of the Committee to
examine Mesmer's system of Animal Magnetism .... 10
Mrs. Freeman, Dropsy 50
Fumigation, for diseased Lungs 101
G
Gold, incorporated zvith Silver 2d
Gout, defined -.
Gout, cured 79—80—81
Gravel 130
Green Sickness 135
Gums and Face iwelled. 126
H
Mr, William Halsall, Consumption 112
JWrr. H. Harding, Dropsy 48
Mrs. H. H. ... .falling down of the Anus 141
Mrs, H Cholera Morbus 12/
Hcnnoptoe, or spitting of Blood 137
Mr, John Henwood, Spasms OS
Mr, Robert Heath, Rheumatism 1, 84
Mr, E, Heath, Ardent Fever 132
Mrs. Elizabeth Hadden, Nervous Head-Ach 135
Hehl, introduced the use of the Load-Stone. - 8
Heart, palpitation of, how produced. 5g
Head-Ach^ iVcrfcw^ 135
Q Hccmorrhoids,
2 1 8 ' Index,
Page.
Hemorrhoids, from her Birth 145,
Hemlock, at enmity with Rue.. ..• 15S
Hereditary Consimption, described 101
History dejined 180
Hereditary Consumption, a remarkable case 103
History, is that Telescope by which we see into distant Ages 182
Hvlloway's success by Animal Magnetism 18
Hooping Cough 118
Ann Hood, Sore Eyes IIC)
Mr. Richard Hopkins, Incontinence of Urine .. ^ 129
Mrs. Rachael Hopkins, Rheumatism 83
Human Body, composed of Pipes and Pores ^ 24
Human Bodies resemble Spunges 37
Hydrocephalus defned 44
Hydrocele defined _ 44
Hydrops Uteri defined 45
Hydrops Pedoris, or Hydrothorax defined 45
I
jfaundice, how produced ............ ....m 55
Jaundice, Yellow 133
Mr. Richard Jenkins, Goat.... ^9
Mr. W. J Ascarides, small Worms in the Anus. . 139
Mrs. jfenkins, Yellow Jaundice .. .t.. m 133
Influence of the Sun and Moon described 15S1
Inferiors to be ruled of their Superiors , 170
Itch 140
Ivy, the bane of all Trees I57
K
Kidniis, their utility ««*»--•. . 91
L
Index. 2 1
L Page.
r J
• - .
147
LamenessJ
cured.
1 13
George Lamb, Consumption ^
Lezocnhock's observations on the Porosity of Animal flesh 2/
Leady emenations of injurious
Leg,, Ulcerated
121-122-123
LegSy Swelled and great Itching
Sarth Lawrence, Epileptic Fits 7^
Leucophlegmatia "
Ligh tening, the Flash conveyed 3'-
Light of burning Powder, its Velocity 31
Light, discovered in a Dungeon 31
Liver, its Utility 9^
Loadstone, recommended by Father Hehl 8
Lungs, their Utility 9^
M
Mdgnftisers, increased - ---r <
Jifan, hfing p^siesscd of Tlcu-son 1/5
Elizabeth Martin, Deafness 134
Mr. Charles Margaret, Gout..^ 80
Mrs. Matthias, Sore Eyes I19
Mrs. B. M.. Scrophula 124
Mercury, its minuteness 26
Mental faculties in Men G3
Menses, immoderate Flux of. 14(j
Menses, suppression of —._ 147'
Mercury and Opium, first used by Paracelsus (y.
Mesmer's assertions, contradiHed y
Mesmer's apostacy, discovered g
Microscopical experiments 26
Milk,
220 Index,
Milky ivjurious lOS
Milk, IVomans preferred to the Brute Creation IO9
Moon, described 160
T. and S. Morgan, Scarlet Fever 132
Lewis Murphy^ Cough and Asthma 117
Muscles, their Use ...^ 25
N
Nature defined 1 66
Charles Neat, St. Vitus's Dance 86
Nervous Head-Ach 135
Notes similarly answered, by two musical instruments in
unison 30
^.erves, the medium of sensibility 36
O
Opium and Mercury, Jirst used by Paracelsus 6?
P
Paracelsus, the Jirst Physician who^ used Mercury and
Opium 0
Party coloured Cattle produced. I63
Elizabeth Parrot, spitting Blood, &c 13/
Phthisis, signs of 99
Mr. H. P Spasms ...» 65
Mrs. P a Decline 64
William Parsons, Sore Eyes II9
John Patterson, swelled Legs, &c. 126
Pernicious effe£ls produced by Animal Magnetism ....... 12
Pore defned 25
Pores, avenues to every part of the Body 3/
Porosity of Animal Flesh 27
Praflisers
Index* ^21
Page.
TraElisers oj Animal Magnetism ,........•....»>..».• 18
Principles of Demainaudue's LcElures on Animal MagnC'
tism \Q
Maria Price, i)roj5»jy 4$
Samuel Putt. Rheumatism 83
R
Reports of Dr. Franklin and the Commissioners relative
to Animal Magnetism 12
Respiration^ A^w in/^re^ ......................... . 100
Resurrection of the Body. .- 18^
Rheumatism dejined.. 82
Rheumatism Cures 83—84—85
jfohn Rice^ Epileptic Fits
Riding on Horseback, its Utility 104
benjamin Rowland, Ulcerated Legs 123
Rue at Enmtty with Hemlock . 15^
S
Scalled Head - 120
Mrs. Stevens, Gout 81
Searching out of Things 17^4
Sore Throat, or Arigina 127
Sleep, is the sweet Soother of our Labours 175
Sound, the Travelling thereof 30
Speech, loss 14(>
Elizabeth Spencer, Hooping Cough .....j 118
Captain R. Shaw, Rheumatism. ..... m. 55
Mrs. Skenftld, Goutm.. * 81-
Spasmodic affections 54.
Spasmodic Cure, moft gratefully acknowledged . - 65,
Spitting
222 Index,
Page.
Spitting ej Blood, or Hamoptoe I37
St. Vitus's Dance 85—86
Stomach, the Fountain of Diseases 'jQ
Scrophula ]24
Stones of Fruit Trees.. 177
Students to Dr. Demainauduc 14
Sun d^Jined .....^ ]59
Sympathy dfjined ]53
Syrnpathy between the Sun and Plants 158
Mrs. Patient Straight, Swelled Legs 125
J^ohn Stevens, Ague.... J 31
Swelled Gurns and Face. 126
Miss E. S. ... Menses immodcrafe 1 46
T
Taylor, Distended Belly 129-
Temi, Treating explained 33:
Miss E. T's Case 6O—61—62—63
Thonret's Ofrj^sition. to rittimxzl M'»^rt.e4^i*M . - - IQ
Thunder Clap, the Travelling thereof 31
Mrs. Thomas, Deafness 134
Susan Thomas, Hooping Cough . , . . us
Tinea, or Scalled Head 120
Treating, Method used '.
40
Tympanites............ 44
Mr,- Joseph Toye^ Epileptic Fits 71
.
. U
Vanhelniont, Successor to Paracelsus in the Pursuit of the
Magnetical Science.. gr
Velocity of a Cannon Ball 31
Virtue
Index. 223
Page,
t'irtue Votvlcs, St, Vitus' s Danu
St. Vitus's Dance SS—SQ
UrineJ
Incontinence of 1 129
W
Water, composed of Atoms ^
Miss W Spasms j * - • -
Mrs, W. Rheumatism. - ..-«
Miss W. Consumption ^
Mrs. Mary Wescott, Ulcerated Legs.. 12i
Mrs. IV. Erysipelas, or St. Anthony's Fire II9
MissS. IV.. Dropsy 53
jfames Whittington, Gout SI
Mr. William Woodward, Epileptic fits 70
Miss E. Warden, Dropsy 4/
Womb, Down-Jailing of 141
Cold Water, the bad Effeds of Drinking 13S
Worm, in the Heart of a Crow 57
Worm, in Man's Heart, occasions sudden Death 57
Worms, 139
