{"name":"Illustration Of The Occult Sciences","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1795__sibly___illustration_of_the_occult_sciences.pdf","mytitle":"Illustration Of The Occult Sciences","mylang":"de"}
NEW
I L L u
AND
A
COMPLETE
s T R A T I .0 -N
0 F .T H E >.;'~,af,.,. ,.ff;/._.--._
/ ~
S C I E N C E S:
OCCULT
0 R, T H E
Art of foretel~ing future Events and Contingencies,
B Y T H E
AsPECTs, PosiTioNs, and INFLUENCEs, of the HJ;:AVENLY BODIES.
FOUNDED ON
Natural Philofophy, Scripture, Reafon, and the Mathematics.
IN FOUR P A R T S.
PART I.
AN Enquiry into, and Defence ot, Afirology; with an interefiing Difcourfe on Natural and Occult Pf1ilofophy-in which
the Wifdom and Omnipotence of God; the intelleclual Faculties of Angels, Spirits, and Men; the Order, Harmony,
&ympathy, and wonderful Properties, oftheCelefiial and Terrcllrial Worlds; the Signs, Inft4j:nces, and Effects, of the
Heavenly Bodies upon all animal, vegetable, and mineral, S'ubfiances; the Numberof the Spheres; the Method of eretl:-
ing the Horofcopc to call Nativities; and the Doctrine of Horary ~e!Uons; are clearly exen1plitied and explained.
P A R T II.
EXAMPLES for acquiring a Practical Knowledge of Aflrology, with Rules for calculating, reflifying, and judging, Na-
tivities; by which the Reader is enabkcl to dif£_ov~!:a..lriJh Prccilion and Accuracy, every materiallncident of his future
Life and Fortune. OJufirated liyaVidety·~ new, entertaining, and cmious, Q.uellions, lately refolved, upon every ma-
terial Occurrence in public and prh•ate Life. With a Collection of the mofi remarkable Nativitie& that have been tafi for
Kings, Princes, and other eminent Men, by the mof! celebrated Profcllors of this Science, in all Ages of the World;
with allonifhing lnllances of th< ir exact Completion. .
P A R T JII.
METEOROLOGICAL Afhology defined and explained: Wherein certain Rules are laid down for prejudging the Revo.
lutions, Viciffitudcs, and Misfortunes, with which every Part of the habitable ·world may be occalionally threatened.
General Effects produced b}· great Conjunctions, Eclipfes, Tranlits, Comets, Blazing Stars, and other extraordinary
Ph:rnomena; with the Art of calculating Eclipfes, Tides, and Weather, for any Number of Years to come. To which
is added, A Colleruon of improved TABLES, contrived to anfwer all the Purpofes of Altronomical Calculations.
P A R T IV.
THE Dillinction between Aftrology and the Diabolical Practice of Exorcifm ; in which the Methods ufed for railing up
and confultin~ Spirits are laid open, with various inllances of their Compacts with wicked Men. Account of Appa-
dtions and Sp1rits; including a gcueral. Difplay of the Myfieries of Witchcraft, Divination, Charms, and Necromancy.
Con:'J'iled from a Series of intcnfe Study and Application, and founded·on real Exampies and Expcrience•
.
Aurp.or ~. n"u~.to~ ''>''"~ ;
H IP("')'fi.O' U(•w•c~ r.m;"~·---ARGOL. AsTR. Lib. ii. c. 8.
Tlu Srm, Moon, t111d Stars, ltatlt God dijlriJJutrd unto all Nations und~r H~avm. Tluy tkc/ar~ lit~ Glory ofGod, andjlttw /ort4
!tis Handyworlt · Day a11d Ni!(lu do CD71tinually t~/1 of th~m, and their Voice is h~ard in a/J Lturguagts, and th~ir Words art
go•~ inlo tit~ £ .rdJ oftit~ E.,:ftlt.--Deut. iv. 19. Pfal. xi.x. 1-5.
By E BE N E Z E R S I B L Y, Fellow 6£ the Harmonic Philofophical Society at P A R 1 S.
Embellilhed with Curious ~ 0 P P E R - P L A T E S.
L 0 N D 0 N:
PRINTED FOR THE PROPRIETOR, AND SOLD BY C. STALKER, No. 41 STATIONER's COURT,
LUDGATE-STREET. MDCCXCV
I I ._, ·'
7t,
)-,
r.--
Digitized by Coogle
•,
,
1/:J'/~7e&f. Me. /(0-fr/Z.
~... /.lt-~i· IYW.-Mo~.V ;:~''?'h~ /7 . It 'EC. by
•
THE NEW YO'!U: -~
PUBLIC LIBRAP. Y,:
827266
.ASTOR., LENOX AND
TILDEN FOUNDATiON .;
R 1918 L
'· .. - l
.._
_
1
·'
, Digitized by Coogle J
._
_........~---------
·.:..·
D E D· I C A -
T I ·o N.
To the Ancient and Honourable FRATERNITY
of FREE and AccEPTED MASO~S~.
GENTLEME~ and BRETHREN~
T HE.. Anti~uity ~~your e~cellent Fraternity,. the
untverfal.J.ty of 1~ plan, and the moral reehtude·
2nd purity of its -~fign,. claim a decided pre-eminence.
over every other Bond of Society into. which mankind.
have ever formed themfelves, for the ~mutual welfare and
happinelS of each other. The stoblene~ of ~ut which
firft prompted t<l> its inftitution, an~ tbe benevolence of
heart which has ever fince prevailed throughout· all its
members, will remain a fubjcCl of lafting adm~ation t .
To you., therefore, as the promoters of liberal fenti.:: ,
ment, ·and the guardians of every.ufeful fcience, I com- ·
mit this venerable pile of ancient Aftrology ;_ a fabric
obvioufly conftru8:ed by the Great ArchiteCl of the
World, primeval with the drdination of nature, and in-
feparable t~om one of the grand fubj~£fs of your official
~onternplation.•
This Science, by being little known, and Iefs undcr-
ftqod, .inay meet with cenfure and difapprobation front
that dcfcription of learned, as well as· ofilliterate men,
whofe.
'
Digitized by Coogle
p E D I C A .T I 0 N.
whofe rule of faith uniformly keeps pace with their own
_
1lrbitl1!ry con~eptiQos.- But the difpaffi.anate part of man-
kind, with eve_
ry good Mafon, wiH candidly weigh the
evidence " by the balance of the San8:uary," and referve
their fentence till after a fair and_ impartial trial.
Sheltered, therefore, under the wing of your fraternal
regard, and patronized by every [Qber .admirer of the
fecret wor-ks of Nature, I fllall attempt to lay the Foun-
.dation Stone of an illuftrious Building, facred to Urania,
upon which fome more· able and ingcni~us Workmari,
fantlioned by your patronage and proteCl:ion, may here-
after raife the edifice to out-top the fides_, and, like Ja-
.cob,s ladder, pierce the ftarry regions, lea~ing the intet-
leB:uat:faculties of the foul to the moft fublime contem-
,- · plations of God and Nature.
: I have the honour to profefs myfelf, with unequivocal
-attachment and ·efteem,
Your Accepted.Bro~her,
And faithful Servan~,_
.E• ·s.I B.·L Y,
PoRTsMouTH CoMMOlf,
In the Year of Mafonary, 578..:.
Digitized by Coogle
I
j
T 0 THE
YOUNG STUDENT in ASTROLOGY. _
My FRIEND,
W HOEVER thou art, that fhalt with fo much
eafe receive the benefit of my laborious ftudics,
and doft in-tend to proceed in ac·quiring this heavenly
knowledge of the Stars, wherein the great and 3dmirable
·works of the invifible and all-glorious God are fo ma'ni-
feftly apparent, in the firft place confider and adore thy
omnipotent <;;REATOR, and be thankful unto him for
thy exiA:ence. Be humble, and let no natural knowledge,
how profound and tranfcendent foever it be, elate thy
mind, or withdraw thee from thy duty to that divine
Providence, by whofe all-feeing order and appointment,
all things heavenly and earthly have their conftant and
never-ceafing motion; but the more thy knowledge is
enlarged by this comprehenfive fcienc~, the more doth~
magnify the power and wifdQm oftheAlmightyGod, and ·
R:rive to preferve thyfelfin his favour; having in conftant
remembrance, that the mare holy thou art, and the
nearer thou approacheft to God in thy religious duties, ·
the purer judgment fhalt thou always give. · Be~are of
pride and fclf-conceit, yet never forget thy dignity. Re-
flea
_,
Digitized by Coogle
-
. I
t'
"-...~-' '
\
. ( •
Vl )
flea often on the primeval ftate of tby creatioa, .that
thou waft formed in the perfeCl: image of God, and that
no irrational creature durft offend Man, the Microcofm,
but did faithfully ferve and obey him, fo long as he was
mafter of his reafon and paffions, or until he fuffered his
. '
own Free-Will to be governed by the unreafonable part.
But alas 1when the firft father of us all gave up the reins
to his difobedient affeai~ns, and deferted his reafon
and his God, then every creature and be~ft of the field
became rebellious and difobedient to his command·. Stand
, faft then, 0 Man 1 to thy integrity, and thy religion.1
confider thy own noblenefs, and that all created things,
both prefent and to come, were for thy fake created; nay,
for thy fake, even God became man 1Thou art that crea-
ture, who, being converfant with Chrift, ·liveft and con-
verfeA: above the heavens. How many privileges and ad-
vantages hath God beftowed on thee I thou rangcft above
the heavens by contemplation, and conceiveft· the motion
and magnitude of the Stars; thou talkeft with -angels;
yea, with God himfelf: thou haft all creatures within thy
dominion, and keepeft the Devils in fubjeaion. Thy ca-
pacity for acquiring knowledge ·is unlimited by thy Ma-
ker; and the blelfednefs of an enlightened.mind will bring
thee the confolations of joy and.happinefs---Do not then;
for fhame, deface thy nature, nor make thyfelf unworthy
- of
Digitized by Coogle
(
..
vu )
of thefe celeA:ial gifts; do not deprive thyfelf of the power
and glory God hath allotted .thee, for the poffeffion of a
few imperfetl:, vain, and illufory, pleafures.
WHEN· thou haft perfetl:ed the contemplation of thy
God, and confidered the extent of thofe faculties with
which thou art endued, thou wilt be fit to receive the
following inftruB:ion, and to know in thy pratl:ice how
to condutl: thyfelf.---As thou wilt daily converfe with the
heavens, fo infl:ru£1: and form thy mind acc~rding to the
image of divinity. Learn all the ornaments of virtue, and
be fufficiently inftruB:ed therein. · Be humane, courteous,
familiar to all, and eafy of accefs. Affiia not the unfor-
tunate with the terrors of a fevere fate; in fuch cafes, in-
form them oftheir hard fortune with fympathetic concern;
di.retl: them to call upon God to divert the judgments im-
pending over them; to fummon up all their fortitude, and
to endeavour to remove the threatened evil, by a manly
exercife of that free-will with which the all-merciful God
hath endowed .them. Be mL)deft in converfation: and alfo-
ciate with the fober and learned. Covet not riches, _but
give freely to the poor, both money and judgment. Let
no worldly confideration procure an erroneous judgment
from thee, or fuch as may difhonour this facred fcience.
Love all thy _fellow-creatures, and cherilh thofe honeft
I
a men
Digitized by Coogle
·( ·vi )
men who cordially embrace this Art. Be fparing .i~ deli-
vering judgment concerning thy king and country, or of
the death of thy prin~e; for I know experimentally that
Regesfubjacent legibu_sJlellarum. Rejoice in the number
ofthy friends; and avoid litigious fuits and controverfies.
In thy ftudy, be lotus in tilts, that thou mayeft bejingu~
Ius ti:z arte. _
Be not extravagant _
in the defire of learning
every fcience; be not aliquidtantum in omnibus. Be faith...
ful and complacent; betray no one's fccrets, I charge thee.;
never divulge the truft either friend or enemy hath commit-
ted to thy faith. Infiruet all men to l~ve well; and be ·-
a good ~xample thyfelf. Avoid the fafhion of the times,
its luxuries, and lafcivioufnefs; but love thy country, and
be its friend. Be not difmayed, though evil fpoken of;
conftientiaprtejlat mille t'!flibus.
•
POETICAL
~
Digitized by Coogle
( vii )
POETICAL INVOCATION
T 0
u R A N I A.
D ESCEND, Urania, with prolific Flame,
And fpread the growing Trophies of thy Name;
Ditclofe to Man a Knowledge of the ~kies~
Whofe fpangling Bl:auties draw our wond'ring Eyes.
Inll:rua young Students in their Care· to know,
The ftarry Influence on all Things below;
Unveil to them the ftrange myfterious caufe
Of thofe Effects deriv'd from Nature's Laws ;
As fiery Meteors, Comets, Lightning, Thunder,
Eclipfes, Blazing Stars, at which Men wonder.
The boift'rous rolling of the troubled Sea;
The daily Tides, their fov'reign Regency. ..
Whirlwirtds, and Water-fpouts, which pleafi'ng iliow
The compound Colours of the heav'nly Bow;
With ev'ry occult Virtue a·nd Attraction,
The rife, the growth, decay, and putrefaction,
Of all Sublunaries that can be found,
From noble Birth, to Herbs within the Ground.
How Fire and Water, Air and Earth, agree,
When equipois'd, in focial Harmony.
That there's a Chain of Concord down defcends,
Fr'om Heav'n to Earth; then back to Heav'n afcends.
By Nature ihew to fober Men of Senfe,
Orion's Bands, Pleiades' fweet Influence; ·
Shew that the Stars.. which trim the heav'nly Spheres,
Are fet for Signs, for Seafons, and for Years ;
Which Day by Day to Man doth utter Speech,
And Night to Night this facred Knowledge teach s
That
Digitized by Coogle
.,
( X )
That there's a Time for all Things here below:
A Time to reap, to gather in, and fow i
A Ti_
me for Birth to Creatures God has giv'n,
A Time to View the great Expanfe of Heav·n.
What fuall befal us, if we're wife to look,
Is there contain'd, as in a facred Book;
What moves our Inclinations, what our Wills ;
What gives us Health, what fubjects us to ills i
What makes one wife; anotpe~ raving mad ;
Another thrifty, yet i';l rags is clad :
What makes one! born a Beggar; and his Fate
shall be to rife unto a great Eftate ;
Another, born in very high Degree,
Defcend therefrom, to abject Poverty.
What makes us merry, lovers of the Fair;
And others hate to come where'er they are.
What makes fome barren, as we daily fee,
While others fruitful are inclin'd to be. .
What makes one chufe to change a fingle Life,
Yet grafp much Mis'ry when he takes a Wife;
And why another fuall this Path purfue,
And·prove that one is not fo bleft as two.
What makes ~ne travel both by Sea and Land ;
While others hate to move from whence they ftand.
What makes one labour much for well-earn'd Praife,
While others, undeferving, wear the Bays.
What makes one Army, going forth to fight,
By one much fmaller quickly put to Flight. ,
Is it not plain the frarry Influence forces,
Ordain'd by Heav'n to act in confiant Courft>s?
Thefe Truths unthaken ftand within this Book,
Therefore, confider o'er the Leaves, and look;
Where Rules enough you'll find to Practice by,
In the pure Science of Aftrology.
Q._UESTIONS
Digitized by Coogle
___ _J
A N
I L L u s T R A T I 0 N
Of the C E L E S T I A L SCIENCE of
';7 /;' .
. . ;, . /fI ~ &.;:J
f•/l' ·· , :.7L- ·
A s T R o~ L o G· y~
p A R T THE F I R s T.
SENSIBLE as I art1 of the rooted prejudices of the times, againA:
the venerable fcience of Aftrology, and fenfible alfo of the reproach
and obloquy that will be levelled againft me by men of obftinate
and dogmatical principles; I thall neverthelefs venture, upon the bafis of
TRUTH and EXPERIENCE, to tnake this feeble effort towards refl:oring a
competent knowledge of that comprehenfive fcience, which in all ages
of the world was deemed the chief ornament of fociety, and the diftin-
guilhing excellence of enlightened tninds. It is therefore to be lamen~d
that the cultivation of it is become obfolete and unfaihionable; and thai,
• owing to the violent difturbances at the ·clofe of the laft century-to the
want of recent information ori the fubjeet, and to the too refined notions
of modern philofophers, its congeniaf rays have .been fo long withheld
from. Lhecf:ding their divine light upon thefe kingdoms. .
. .
· That an Aftrology in the H~vens does really exift, and was ordained of
God from the beginning of the world, for the immediate information and
.direCtion of his creatures here below, is obvioufly and incohteflibly proved
from various parts of thofe fac~d Books, which contain the unerring word
of God, and the perfect rule of faith for every good and fober Chriftian.-
To revive the gloomy days of fuperftition, or to impofe on the untaught
multitude, precepts of ignorance, is no part ofthe Author's defign.-His
aim is, to rempve the mote from the eyes of prejudiced men; and by juft
reafoning, and faif argument, founded on the principles of religion and
morality, to thew them thatGod is a God of order, and created nothing in
vain ;-that he framed -the world by number, weight, and meafure, and
fix~d the whole fyftem of heavenly and earthly things upon fo perfect and
inunutable a plan, that the whole doth work harm.oniou1ly and fympathe-
. . B ~~
Digitized by Coogle
·,
,·
AN ILLUSTRATION
tically together, fo as to anf~er all the various purpofes (or which they
were firft ordained ;'-that fuper1ors do un,iformly rule inferiors ; and that .
celeftial bodies fenfibly act upon a~d influence all earthly fubltances, whe-
.ther animal, vegetable; or mineral ; not by chance or accident, but by a
regular inherent caufe, implanted in them from the beginning, by the om-
nipotence of God. ·
It is a maxim with perfons of a contumacious turn of mind, to confider
every thing as impoffible, that do~s not immediately fall within the com-
pafs of their own trieas; forgetting that the operations of Nature are as un-
fearchable as they are curious, and that the ways of God furpafs all human
comprehenfion !-and fo warped are they from every fentiment of libera-
lity, that thofe who difcover, a willingnefs to receive inftruction, or who
differ from them in opinion, are condemned to ridicule and fcorn. But to
1hew how reprehenfible fuch conduct is, we need only reflect on the unbe-
lieving St. Thomas, and the pointed exclamation ofour Saviour, upon that
occafion. Men of this untowarddifpofition, will take up my book from
the impulfc of curiofity, 'till recolletl:ing themfelves, they will tofs it
with contempt intofome obfcurecorner, and upbraid its author perhaps in
terms -riot the moft liberal or pleafing. And yet, I am bold to fay, that
even fuch perfons, invulnerable as they may be to the force of reafon,
might foon be convinced of the purity and excellence of this Science,
would they but for a time diveft themidves of prejudice, and impartially
weigh the evidence brought in its fupport.-Nay, I have reafon to be-
lieve, that how much foever they appearexternally to condemn Aftrology,
they neverthelefs feel in their own mind, and vainly attempt to ftifle,
an internal conviction of its abfolute exifience. Would they but wifely
cultivate this internal evidence, and put on the folid reafoning of dif-
paffionate men, the· order of nature would then unfold itfelf to their view,
and the ftupendous works of Creation captivate their fenfes; 'till emu-
lous of attaining the moft exalted knowledge,. they would feek the vafi:
extent of fpace, and find the whole canopy of heaven expanded for their
contemplation. And thus familiarized in the wonderful properties of
heavenly and earthly things, they would no longer confider Afirology
as the parent of wicked compact and infatuation, or the child of impof-
ture, but- would be fenfiblc it contains the balfamic nutriment of Truth
and Wifdom. ·
Thofe who deny the being of Aftrology, have furely never contem-
plated the myfteries of their own exiftence, nor the common occurrences
t.laat are infeparable from it; many of which are inexplicable when abftract-
edly confidered. and only ceafe to ftrike us with wonder, becaufe they are
obvious
Digitized by Coogle
'
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G ·y•.
o~vious and familiar to our fenfes. If we recolleCl: that the moft trivial
incident in nature, cannot come to pafs without a caufe ; and that thcfe
caufes are inceifantly giving birth to a new fate, which at one time brings
us comfort, and at another overwhelms us with misfortunes ; that to-day-
gives us the full enjoyment of our willies, and to-morrow confounds
every imagination of our hearts; it is ftrange we iliould deny that fuch
caufes exift, when every hour's experience confirms the fad:, by the good
or ill fuccefs that confiantly attends all human purfuits. To illufi:rate
this obfervation more fully, let us attentively confider the ftupendous
frame or model of Nature, as laid down in the holy Scriptures, and en-
deavour to deduce therefrom the fubordinate dependence of one part upon
· another, from the interior heavens, to the minuteft fubftance upon earth.
Hence we may poffibly difcover the origin of thefe caufes, and prove that
Afuology does not exift in imagination only.
· ';fhe fubftance of this great and glorious Frame, which. the Almighty
created,.we call the world; and the world confifrs of the heaven and the
earth •. The model of it is, as the prophet Ezekiel defcribes it, in the
form of a wheelt; with many wheels .within the fame, involved one
within another: And thus we find it by mathematical demonftration;
for the earth is a wJieel or globe of fea and land, circumfcribed by the at-
mofphere, as within a greater wheel, which is globous too; and furrounded
by the heavens, as by many wheels involved one within another, encircling
the fun, moon, and ftars, and all the hoft of them. The power which
firfl: actuated and put thefe wheels in perpetual motion, was the fame
whifh called them into exiftence; the execut~oners of whofe will, are re-
prefented by the Prophet under the fimilitude of four living· creatures.
immeafurably endued with wifdom, courage, agility, and ftrength. Ancl
hence were life, and fpirit, llnd.power, and virtue communiCated to the
heavens, and ·from the heavens to the earth, an.d from the earth to man
and beaft, and to every plant and, herb1 and earthly fubftance. Hence
'alfo are derived the magnetic. powers, and wonderful properties of na7
ture; the virtues of fympathy and antipathy, the invifible effeCl:s of at-
traCl:ion and expulfion, and all the various influences of the ftars and
planets.
The proper agents of this noble il:rud:ure, are angels, and men; the
one ~ompofed of a pure etherial fpirit, and incorruptible; the other, in
his primary ftate, lefs pure, but incorruptible alfo, until his fal1, which
brought upon himfelf and offspring mortality and death. The angels are
eithergoodorbad,andultimatelyknow their reward or doom; but the work~
• .See Gen. i. '• i Ezek. i. rs. r6.
of
Digitized by Coogle
•
•
16 A N - I L L U S T .·R A T··y ·o N
of fallen man are yet upon the anvil, and time with us is 'ftill goingtort.
But man is now endued, as in his· primary ftate, with the agency of a
Free Will, and hath good and evil, for a teft of his obedience, continually
fet before him, with freedom to choofe either. And thus, unconftrained
either by the immediate hand of God, or by the operation of the planets.
as fecond caufes, fome embrace life, and others feek condemnation; and
hence follow virtue and vice, profperity and adverfity, ficknefs and. health,.
life and death, and all the viciffitudes of Fortune~ And though the rife
and fall of empires proceed from the virtues and vices of thofe men who
govern and inhabit them ~ and thefe virtues and vices proceed from the
free will or agency of thofe men ; and though ~e incidents .good and
bad of one man's life are innumerable, and the men who are the fubjeCl::s
of thofe incidents in one fingle age, are innumerable alfo; and though
the ages of men, fince the creation of the world, are innumerable too J
yet have all thefe multiplied incidents, whether trivial or important, come
to pafs by a regular courfe or concatenation of·caufes, origiDa!ly i.rn..
planted in the ·wheels or frame of nature. And with fuch minute per..
feCl::ion was this ftupendous· frame conftructed, that neither the.fall or
man, nor the tremendous .iliock which agitated the world upon ·that a£.
fliCl::ing occafion ; not all the wickednefs of mankind in after ages, nor the
defolations which have rent the earth in confequence thereof, have yet
impaired the wheels of this aftonilhing machine, or for ·a moment im..
peded its conftant and unceafing motion. And fuch was the a:muiug
forefight and providence of God, that perceiving, .at one view, all the
events 9f futurity, the turnings and windings of every man's will, and 'the
total fum ~nd uplhot of all virtue -
and vice,·he at once contrived the fates
of pr<?fperity and adverfity, of rewards and punilhments fo to come up;
as preclfely to anfwer the virtues and prayers of the righteous, and the
vices and profanenefs of the wicked, in all ages of the world, at .their
.fit and appointed ftafons.
NOW all mankind have each of them, moreor lefs, a certain 1hare of
wifdom, power, or wealth, wherewith they occupy in this life, and carry
forward all their undertakings. Thus we- fee fome men, by means of
riches, courage or contrivance, grow mighty, and purpofe, as if nothing
could impede the full accompliLhment of their defigns ; and yet we find
there are two things which confound the wifeft, the greatcft, and proudeft
of them all, in the very fummit of their glory ;-thefe are, Time, and
Chance-two mighty lords upon earth, which bring to pafs many ftrange
and marvellous events. Time is that motion of fpace which proceeded
out of etern'ity when'the world began, and holdeth on unto eternity, which
is to fucceed at the world's end. Out of_
this on<? long time, are engen-
dered
Digitized by Coogle
OF A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
dered. infinite fpaces of time, of a great variety of forts ; and thefe are
either general or fpecial, and each of them either fortunate, or unfortu..
nate. There is a time for every purpofe under heaven *; a time of plea..
fure, and another time of pain and grief; a time to rife, and a time to fall;.
a time to be born, and a time to die. There is a certain lucky time in
man's life, wherein if he go out to battle, though with but few men, yet
he carrieth the victory; and there is another time wherein, though he go
out ·with ever fo complete an army, yet 1hall he gain nothing but difgracet.
So alfo there is a time wheg, overtures ofmarriage 1hall be fuccefsful, but a
man's defire£ anfwer it not, and again there is a time when defires of mar-
riage fhall ftrongly urge, and all overtures yrove ineffectual ; but there is
a time alfo when defires and overtures 1hal exactly correfpond, and fuit
together. In .like manner, there is a time when profperity and riches 1hall .
offer themfelves, and be .attained, whether a man fieep or wake ; and by
and by, though he purfue them with wings, yet fo unlucky a time occurs,
as renders all his endeavours fruitlefs. Some men come into the world
in a lucky hour, fo that let. them be wife or fooli1h, they !hall be buoyed
up on the wings of fate in all matters of wealth or honour, and fucceed in
all that they take to; while wifer and better men, fmitten with an un-
lucky time of birth, 1hall be as undefervedly difparaged, and all their un-
dertakings 1hall prove unfuccefsful and unhappy. Some 1hall be lucky
in the van of their enterprizes, and as unfortunate in the rear ; and others
again contrariwife. And thus time feems to mock and fport with the
men of this life, and to advance, or counteract, all their ikill and contri-
vances, even to a d~gree infinitely beyond whatever we could reafonably
conceive or expect. And yet time of itfelf is but a dead thing, and a .
mere inftrument; but the wheels of the heavens turning upon it, imprint
riddles in its face, and carve and cut oqt the .various iliapes of profperity
andadverfity, upon the minuteft portion thereof. And wonderful it is to
obferve, that a child, the moment it draws breath, becomes time-fmitten
by the face of heaven, and receives an impreffion from the fi:ars therein,
which taking rife from the afcendent, fun, moon, and ether principal
fignificators, operate as the impreifors ftand, and point out, as with
the finger af God, the caufes whence the fate and fortune of the new-
born infant proceed; and whether it come before, or at its full time, or
in what part of the world foever it is born,.it matters not; for as the na-
ture of the fignificators are that afcend upon the horizon at tlw birth,.
{uch 1hall certainly be the fortune of the t native. This is a truth that
• Sec Eccl. iii. r, z, &c. t Chap. ix. 1 r.
t This a1l:onifhing property of nature will be illufirated more at large, in its proper place~
and the reader enabled, by plain and obvious rules, to make the experiment upon himlelf, upon
his own family, or upon any other fubjell:s he may think proper.-The event of his own obfcr-
vations will confirm the faa, and afford him an inexhauftible fund of moral and religious con-
templation !
c
..
ol
..
.
,. '
. ..
. . .
-
v. .t
....
·~.. ·..
·~ .
. .
~ . ~~..t
..
,• .
....
.• "
·.·• ..
•. ...
.- ·
.
..... .
,.. .~
·. '• .
•
Digitized by Coogle
•
·tS AN .ILL .USTRATI'ON
will bear the moll: minute enquiry, and will be found .the ordination of
an all-wife and indulgent Providence, for the {peculation andimprovement
.of his creature man. And thefe fignificators .reprefen_t, as it were, a feries
-of curious knots, which untie by courfe; and as every knot unties, dif-
ferent times feem to fly out, and perform their errands; and of thefe,
fometimes we may obferve two, or three, or more, lucky knots Qpening
together, and at other times as many th:rt are inaufpicious. Yet all times
.are !uautiful.in theirflafom, if men could hit them; but through the ma-
lignity of fin, and an intemperate purfuit of worldly pleafures, we often
lofe the favourable .time afforded us, of embracing the moil: fubftantial
b.appinefs•
.f:_ ·The fecond great lord over human inventions, is Chance. And thefe
)(ithances proceed from a great variety of rare and fecret operations of hea-
i ' v.~n, which throw in the way of men thofe. ftrange and fortuitous turns of
fortune, that furpafs all human fGrelight or conception. And yet there
is really no fuch thing as chance in nature; much lefs can there be any
thing that comes by chance, in refpeel: of God ; but all thofe curious hits
that {trike in between the caufe and its effeCt, we call Chances, as heft fui t-
ing human ideas, beca.ufe of the undefcribable properties of them. For
.in 1huffiing a pack of cards, or in calling the dice, it feems to us a meer
.chance what call: 1hall happen uppermofi, or what card will go to the
·bottom of the pack, and yet it is evident by experience, that there is a
.certain luck in nature, which pre.fi.des over all thefe adventures, fo that a
man iliall either win Dr lofe in a methodical courfe. . It alfo happens in the
time of battle_, and in every purfuit after wealth and honor, that chances
fall in upon us, and turn the .fcales by a fecret kind of fate, beyond all
that .could reafonably have been expeCted; and thus heaven breathes into
all human actions, an infinity of thefe _chances, that overturn the wifdom
and power, and all the greatnefs of man. Thefe chances are uniformly
managed by a certain kind of Juck, either good or bad, which drives the
nail; and this, by fome heavenly influence, that infufes a fccret virtue or
poifon into our aCtions, as courage into their hearts on one fide, or difmay
on .the other; and ik.ill into fome mens heads to purfue the right courfe
to be rich, or fc>lly into others, whereby they run headlong to mifery and
want; or e1fe fortunateth or infortunateth by miftake of words, fignals,
or acts, that turn to the heft or worft advantage, by ftrasge hits or mif-
carriages ; and thus it happens that a flight mifr.ake in battle begets an utter
ro~t,af.ter a victory made almoftcomplete, by the meer utterance of a wrong
word, or i}:eering an improper courie•. But which way foever it happens,
the whole mattec is wrought by a good or ill luck, and the hand of God
is at the bottom of it ; not by anv new contrived act, but by the fame
regt,~lar courfe ofnature, ordained from the beginning of the world•
Thus
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
Thus both Time and Chance are the fervants of nature, under whofe
"COmmands they fway the World, and Worldly men; but by her laWS are
-both of them difpofed. Time .meafures out the extent ofmens lives7 and
.fets bounds how long they may live by flrength of nature, and how much
of that time {hall be e«tenuated by means of fin; and it alfo carves out
limits to the particular fates of all mankind; and Chance aCts in obferv-
ance of thofe limits, and brings about the good and bad fuccefs of every
fate. And thus by the fervice of Time and Chance, nature performs all
.her great and.fecret operations, whether upon colleCtive bodies, or places,
<Or ~perfons. It may be thought firange that nature ilio'uld bring forth men
.and women at a great difiance of years, hours, and places, all defl:ined to
·-die at one time, and by the fame manner of death, either by war, plague,
· ~pefrilence; or thipwreck; and that time and chance '{hould pick them up,
.and draw them together, from a variety of different purfuits, to partake
:at lafr in .one and the fame defrruetive fate. Yet this is no more frrange
than true; for thefe things frequently happen, and that by the imper-
ceptible influences of thofe heavenly afpeCts and ftars, which in their
cfJurfts fought againfl Siftra*. And by the fame rule, as many men, wo-
men, and children, are, on the other hand, gathered together by a fimi-
lar force and virtue, to enjoy great and good fortune•
•
Some perhaps will contend, that thefe operations of nature are incom-
patible with the free agency of man's will. But if what has already
been premifed b~ attentively confidered, this fuppofition will immedi-
ately vani{h ; for God, who ordained the courfe of nature, certainly
forefaw the minutefr turn of .every man's will, and eventually contrived
his fate to correfpond therewith, fo as to admit its free and uncontrouled
-choice. And whoever denies this antecedent principle, or prefcience of
God in the confiruCl:ion of the world, denies one of his mofr e1fential
.attributes. The Will of man, without doubt, in a variety of infiances,
makes great ftruggles and wrefrlings with the ftarry influences, both
in good and in evil purfuits, and often prevails over them cxceedingly;-
for though a perfon be born under fuch benevolent or malignant afpeets,
as {hall point out his natural temper and difpofition, and indicate the
principal tranfattions, fortunate or unfortunate, that are likely to be the
difringuilhing marks of his life; yet does it depend entirely upon the
free uncontrouled will of that man, whether all thofe circumftances, fo
pointed out in his nativity, {hall come to pafs, or not; becaufe the free
will in every man, when fortified by habits of virtue and \vifdom, often
-enable him to over-rule thofe evil afpeCl:s, fo as to avoid the commif-
d!on of any criminal offence, and to guard him againft the misfortunes or
~ Judg. v, :zo.
.toifes
Digitized by Coogle
20- AN ILLUSTRATION
lofi'es impending over- him; while men of a profligate and brtle(s
habit, not only lofe the advantages of a promifing nativity, p.ut, ~f
born under malevolent afpeets, are often reduced to the laft ftage of di-
ftrefs, atld perHh under the very fame ftrokes of nature, w:hich: wifer
and better men, porn in the fame inaufpicious moments, have endured
with much eafe. And thu$ far fopiens dominabitur a)Jris, the ..wife man,
above the fool, may rul~h;.s ftars. But we muft not forget, t~t' J.Inder
thefe operations of fate, there are many ,influences fo powerful, that. no
wifdom of man can oppofe. Such are tfl'e fatal wounds of deatn, w~~n.
nat':lre's glafs is run out, and fuch the violent blows of excruciating.
_pain and ficknefs, .and the high tides of profperity and adv€rfity; in all
which cafes, we find by experience, a)Jra regunt homines, the fl:ars rul~.
and overpower men.- Yet neverthelefs, fuch ~ i~ th~. i~finite prefcience
and providence of God, that forefeeing the de.fires and deferts of all wife
and holy men, in their_ different ages and times, he alfo laid their fates
fuiting to tht:r ~Ctions.. He forefaw Jofeph's prayers and tears in his
captivity, and accordingly provided his advance in nature te correfpond
therewith*· He forefaw Hannah's fafting, andearncdl:prayer,andordained ·
her opening womb to bud forth in courfe of nature exaCtly anfwering
theretot. So that thewifdom and will ofman has its full free work, with-
out reftraint or controul ; and grace and virtue aCt by their own princi-
ples, as they are led by the Holy Ghoft; and yet nature,. as it was contrived
from all eternity_, aCts freely too. This is· the doCtrine we are taught by -
the word of God, which is confirmed by the evidence o( out own rcafon
and experience.
Now the fcience which we call :Aftrology, is nothing more ·than the .
ftudy or invefiigation of this frame or mo-del of nature, with all its admi-
rable produCtions and effeCts ; whereby we acquire a knowledge of the fe-
cret virtues of the heavens, and the .lhining luminaries therein contained~
It is a fcience which all may attain tp, by common diligence and applica-
tion; and the more we delight in it, the more readily do we forefee the .
motions of future evttnts, and the curiofities of chance and natural acci-
dents, and the courfes of luck by which both are governed, and the order
of fate, unto whi~h all of them are fubfervient; together With all the
moft curious aCts of attraCting and expelling, alluring and threatening,
encouraging and dilheartening, and all fuch like operations of nature,
rnoft fecretly and imperceptibly performed, beyond the reach of ima-
gination. And·as by a fkill in tliis ftudy we attain to fee _
and experience
things that are paft, fo by the Jame fkill we attain to a knowledge of
things which are to come; and, by knowing the time of our birth, are .
• See Gen. xxxvii. and :xli. 40, Pfal. cv. 1~, 19, zo.-t Sam. i. to, 11, &c.
, · enabled
Digitized by Coogle
--....
r .··~
....
t(
... 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 21
J
.~..·-~enabled to read in the h'eavens the ftory of our whole lives, our bleffings
t .; . .._ and croffes, honour and dilhonour, profperjty and adverfity, ficknefs and
· "' hea-lth, and all the years of our life, and time of our death, even as though
.
•lll
•
· • we had feen'them tranfacted and come to pafs in their fcveral times and
feafons. For God hath 2tfuredly given this knowledge unto the wife
man, lo knO'W tht time and the judgment, and the num6er '!{ our days, that
'f/Jt may 6e certflied how long we have to • lfve, with comfort and content;
that we may be timely prepared for all ftates ofprofperity and adverfity,
for a long and happy life, or a calamitous ·and fpeedy death; and that we
may fupport ourfelves with fortitude and refignation, in proportion to
our foreknowledge of· thefe events. And no man fo fit to foreknow
thefe, as he who is able to fay, Majorj'um quam cMipojfttfortuna nocere.
But many men will not belie'fe, that by natural means all or any of
this fore~nowledge can be fairly and lawfully obtained; or that the in-
fiuences attributed t0 the heavenly bodies have any foundation in truth.
It is therefore neceffary, before I enter upon the practical part of the
fcience, to bring fuch evidence in fupport of what has been already ad-
vanced, as will be found incontrovertible and d~cifive J and for this pur-
pofe I muft refer to the teftimony of tbofe facred writings, which con..
tain the revelation of God, and in which the dotlrine of this fcience is
{o demonftrably proved, that it will be difficult to believe the one, with- .
out admitting the other. Let us confider the account given by Mofes, of
the creation of the heavenly bodies. God faid, " Let there be lights in
the firnament of heaven, to divide the day from the night J the greater
light-to rule the elay, and the le1fer light to rule the night, and let them
be for. figns, a.nd for feafons, and for days and years."-Thefe then were
the purpofes for· which they were ordained, andirrevocably fixed by their
great Creator--.firft for lights; for had .they not a place in·the firmament,
br were- we deprived of their illuminating ·rays, we lhould be inftantly
overwhelmed with impenetrable darknefs. SecQndJy, theyare to divide the
dayfrom the nigbt; and this they never ceafe to do ; for when the fun,
the greater light, is funk five dcg.reea below our horizon, we call it night;
for then tho moouandftars appear, andlhed t~ir }effer light, and darknefs
in foase degree is fpread around, and every thing declares it to be the ftate ··
of nigh~. Buc when the fun, t-OOt glorious fountain of life, light, and
moti~n, begins to touch the eaftarn vetge of the horizon, darkncfs is
difpelled, light begins again to dawn, and the ftars which beautifully be-
fpangle our hemifphere, are foon obfcured by the fall blaze of day ; but
as <fays and nightsarc unequal, and never continue in one ftay, thefe celef-
tialluminaries diftinguilh their refpettive reig11s. Thirdly·, they arc for
No.2.
• ECcl. i. 5• Pfal. xxxix• .., S•
D figna
...
oigiti~ed by Coogle
22 AN ILI.;USTRATION
figns-not to brutes, for they have not the faculty ofonderftanding them:
nor to angels, for they continually behold the face of God, and obey· hi~
will in the government of the heavenly bodies, at his pleafure. There-
,fore when God faith, Let them he for figns, be muft fpeak in reference •
to man whom he formed a rational creature, capable of diftinguilhing one
fign from another, and-of improving by them. Nor are we to look upon
them as mere figns, like beacons upon a hill, or as only fetting bounds to
days, months, and years ;_but we are to confider them as figns and tokens
of thofe hidden events of futurity, which it concerns every wife and good
man to know; and which be may always forefec, by avirtuous and fober
ftudy of thefe intelligent figns, placed by God for that purpofe in the fir-
mament of heaven. And that this was the intent of them, is clearly de..
monftrated by the words of our Saviour, when he foretold the deftruction
of Jerufalem, and the final confummation of all things. His apoftles
afked him, What fuall the fign of tbefe things be? He replies, ·Earth-
quakes, famines, and peftilences; fearful fights in the heavens, and figns in
the fun, in the moon and in the • fiars. Such alfo was the fign by which
the Eall:ern Sages difcovered the birth of our Saviour, and the place of
his nativity; and num~rous other inftances may be adduced, both from
{acred and profane hiftory, in fupport of this doCtrine.-The fourth ufe
of thefe celeftial luminaries, is for feafons. This is allo obvious; for we
.find that heat and cold, and drought and moifture, are all guided and go-
verned by the heavenly bodies; and that not only fpring and autumn,
~nd fuminer and winter, bear teftimony of it; but we have it confirmed by
the evidence of our own conftitution and feeling; for when the weather
is heavy and lowering, we fin·d ourfelves dull and languid ; when bright
and radiant, we are s:hearful and merry; and, when unfettled and untea-
fonable, we feel it by indifpofition and melancholy; and this is all brought
about by the operation of thefe luminaries upon the feafons of the year,
in the due courfe of nature. The next ufe allotted them is fifthly for
days, and fixthly for years; and that thefe are meafured out, and governed
by them, is every way apparent; by the fun's circqit, and the moon's
energy.-The fun, like a ftrong man, rejoices to run his race; he rifeth
out of the chambers of the eaft, and with golden rays difpels the morn-
ing_ clouds, and exhales the pearly dew; chearing and refreiliing all na-
ture ~ith his prefence. Hence it is evident that thefe luminaries were
not only placed in the heavens to give light upon the earth, to govern.
the feafons, and to fet bounds to time; but alfo to communicate figns
and tokens to mankind, of things to come. We fuall now confider how
far it is fcripturaJ, and confonant to reafon, to. allcw them thofc infiu-.
cnces att.ributed to them by Aftrology. ~
~ Luke xxi. 61 7, aa, as, &c•.
That
Digitized b~Google
...
•
- .
.
- • "! •
OF ASTRQLOGY
That the fun, moon, and all the planets, have a direCt and obwous- influ...
upon earthly fubftances, no man of common obfervation will pretend
deny. The fun is the fountain of heat, and that heat is the nurfe o£
; and the moon is the fountain of moifture, which tempers the vio ~
lent heat of the fun, and modifies all his operations. But the fun and
moon, and all the planets, have each of them a particular fpecific pro-
perty, according to their own innate quality, and according to the nature
of that fign· or band of fiars under which they happen to be pofited..
This is a -fact eftablHbed by repeated obfervation and experience; for
when the fun enters the equinoCtial fign A1"ies, the fpriog begins to 1hew
herfelf, and aJl vegetative nature, by the moon's humidity and the fun's
temperate heat, feems to revive and flourifu, and, as it were, to rife from
the dead; whither the cold blafis of the hyemnal air, had before configned
it.. So, when his radiant beams enter the fign Taurus, they fi:ir up the""
benign influences of the Pleiades and Hyades; Ha:di being.then to the
north, and Orion to the fouth, and ArEturus finking below the horizon-;
and their cold and tempefiuous effdls begin to ceafe, as they are fuc·
ceeded by thefe benevolent confiellations which produce warm fouthern
winds, and gentle lhowers, repleni.fhing the earth, and caufing vegetation.
Again, when the fun rifes with the Dog-fiar, we find an influence which
«eaufes.vebemency of heat, contagion, and infirmity. Medicaments ad..
miniftered under this conftellation,. prove hard and obnoxious; and we
find dogs at this time are apt to run mad; the fea is troubled without any
apparent caufe, and all nature feems mere or lefs oppre1fed by it; and
yet thefe effeCts are never found to be equally violent in any two fummers,
whieh clearly proves an influence in the fi:ars, as well as in the fun. And
again, though the ·fun. keeps the fame conftant. and invariable courfe
through the twelv~ figns of t-
he Zodiac, for an-infinity of annual revo-
lutions, yet we never _find the feafons and weather exadJy correfpond,
which they doubtJefs would do, were it not that cold and heat, and wind
and rain,.are governed by the configurations the fun has with the planets
and fix.ed fiars; and this.alfo evidently proves the force of their influence.
It is likewife manifeft, that, whenever the planet Saturn is pafiing out ot
one fign into-anothc:r,. the weather. is.mor.e or lefs. turb.ulent.and.~nfettled.
But it is not the weather only, nor the inanimate part of the creation
alone, that is affeCted by the influences of the fun, moon, and planets;.
!or we find they operate upon the human fpecies, and upon all animate
natnre, in every part of the world. The fun,. and the quality of the
heavens about the torrid zone, naturally occafwn thole men who are born
and liv.e under it ·to be quite black, with iliort crifped hair, of a mean.
.ftature, and.hot conftitution, imbibing a fierce- and favag~ fpirit ;. and
this
r
Digitized by Coogle
•
A N· I L L. U S T R· A T I 0 N /
..ihis by reafon of the fun's •continual ftay and power in that fiery ·re··
lt is obfervable, that the inhabitants of the fouth, are of a better. a
quicker wit, and much more ingenious and traaable; and this is .·
counted for by their vertical point being . fituated near.er the zodiac,
·which the planet moves. So likewife the inhabitants of the north are
a ftrong body, but of rude mannars and condition, becaufe their vertical
point is placed at a great diftance from the fun's courfe; and therefore they
abound with cold ~nd moifture, and are of a phlegmatic conftitution, of
a fair complexion, taU, courageous, and ingenuous. Europe, being
.iituated in the north-weft part of the earth, is uhder Mars in Aries; and,
by reafon of this planet ruling in that triplicity, its inhabitants are na-
turally of a noble and magnanimous fpirit, given to martial exploits, and
.feats of war; of a generous mind, and courteous manners. And thus the
{uq, modified by the different figns and conllellations through which he
paffes, regulates the climates, and lheds his influence upon all mankind,
leaving behind him evident marks of his government and fway. Some,
indeed, have.attempted to account for the fwarthy and black complexion
.of the favage race, by a variety of other plaufible conjeCtures ; but none
are to be relied on, that do not attribqte its caufe to the intenfe heat and
power of the fun in thofe climates ; than which nothing can be more
confonant to reafon, fince we find, even in this country, that if we remain
long together in the fun, in the heat·offummer~ our complexions change,
and we become in a degree tanned.and fwarthy. ·
Confpicuous as are the influences of the fun, thofe of the moon ~re no
lefs fo. This is evinced by a confideration of that wondeJ-ful and never•
ceafing operation ofthe moon upon the ocean, fo as to occafion that per-
petual flux and reflux of the fea, which we call tides. Here we·fee the
waters of the vaft ocean, forgetful, as it were, of their natural reft, move
and roll in tides obfequious to the ftrong attraCtive power of the moon,
.and with an increafe or diminution of force, in proportion as the appears
in firength, or want of afpetl. This is an influence fo univerfally ad·
mitted, and fo peculiar to ·that luminary, that it eftablithes at once the
doctrine we contend f9r. But there are ~umerous other infrances of
the effefls .of the moon, no lefs common than extraordinary, and perfed:ly
well known. Thofe unhappy perfons who labour under a deprivation of
fenfe, and are affliCted with lunacy, have their fits more violent and ter•
rib1e, in proportion as the moon increafes or diminilhes in light and mo~
tion ; and, in all chronic and acute difeafes, her power and influence arc
vifibly and forcibly felt. Indeed every fubjeet of the creation is more or ·
lefs etfetled by the moon's energy ; the eyes of cats are obferved to fwell
or fall at the full and change of the moon; and even the thell-fi.th at the
bottom
.,. • >
. \
..
' .. ~
... .• ... • I
I
Digitized by Coogle
...
,
j 0 F A S T R 0 L_ 0 G Y. - 25
i -- 1e ocean, are known to feel the weight of her influence.
who fleep in the fields, or in any place expofed to the open air, by
ght, find their heads oppre1fed with water, and their fenfes inert
• ' heavy; and butcher's meat hung up, and expofed to the. moon-light,
H foon putrify. The gardener aHo brings us abundant teftimonies of
e influence of tpe moon upon the vegetable world~ If peas are fown A
the increafe of the moon, _
they never ceafe blooming; and, If fruits .,;z.-
ld herbs are fet in the wane, experience thews they are neither fo rich in
avour, nor fo !hong and healthy, as when planted during her increafe; fo
ines, becaufe they iliould not fpread too fall:, are ufually pruned in the
~ane. It is alfo remarkabJe that a pomegranate will. live only as many
years as the moon was days old ~hen it was planted ; and, in planting
ihrubs, or the like, if they are to ilioot up ftrait and tall, and to take little
root, they are fet when the moon is in an airy fign and increafing in light:
but contrariwife when they are to take deep root, and to lhike downwards.
And thus we may obferve flowers that are under the moon's influence
only open their blo1foms in the·night; whilft thofe which are peculiarly
under the government of the fun open every morning when he begins to
rife, and clofe in the evening when he finks below the horizon. Thefe
effeCts and influences of the moon are fo com·mon, and fo generaJly known,
that it were almofi needlefs to repeat them here, but for the purpofe of
drawing this conclufion, that, as one planet has a known and forcible ac-
tion upon fublunary things, it is natural to believe that all the others
are endued in fome degree with a fimilar fo•ce and virtue. Indeed moft
phyficians know that the planet Saturn rules all climac1erica1 years, as the
1un doth critical days, and the moon the crifis of all acute difeafes; and
that every ftventh year Saturn comes to the fquare or oppofition of his
place in the radix of every man's nativity; and that. after the re\'olutioil
of the: fun, he becomes the chid.ruler of criticJl days, and is.._often ob-
ferved, by his configurations with the moon, to fet afide the fatal crifis
of thofe defperate dilorders, over which the patient was not expected to
·Jive. From thefe phyfical reafons, we may fafely conclude that Saturn
is by nature cold and melancholy, as the fun is hot and chearful; and,
being thus oppofire to the i~n in quality and effeEl. fo is he in relation to
the figns and manfions of the heavens where he bears rule, an-
d therefore
inclines always to cold, as the fu·n does to .heat., Hence it follows, that
when the fun is in Aquaries, which is the proper fign of Saturn, and op..
pofite to his own fign Leo, the weather inclines more to cold than to heat;
and, at every conjunction, fquare, or- oppofition, of Saturn with the two
great luminilries, we always .fin.l the weather cold, moift, and lowering,
evt:n in the midft of the: fum mer, unle(s the rays of Jupiter or M.1rs inttr-
pofc, in whkh cafe thtfe cftt:Cts. are fomewhat ·lefs vifi b:e. Thus, wo
No. ·2. E may
Digitized by Coogle
~
26 A N I L L u s T R A T I 0 N I
may prefume to affirm, that the influences of the fun, m_oon,
nets, are efiabli1hed beyond contradiction.
But, befides thefe figniorities of the fun, moon, and planets, th
jlars have a]fo their principalities in the heavens. The Lord, who ga
the fun for a light by day, gave the ordinances of the moon and fiars alfo
for a light by night; and to thefe fiars hath he committed a certain rule
or dominion• over the day and night, and that promifcuoufiy. Now the.
fiars have no vifible operation upon us, befides that little Jight they ad-
minifter to our eyes in ;1 dark and clear night; and that i5 fo very fmall,
that all the fiars in heaven, befides the fuo and moon, are not to be com-
pared, in this refpeCl:, with the fmallell wax-light; and this little light
too is only to be had when the nights are ferene and unclouded. Can it
then be fuppofed that God made thefe glorious bodies, many of which
are bigger 'than the whole ·earth, and move in their orbs as fo many other
worlds in the heavens, merely for a twinkle in the night, and that only
when the weather permits? lo! every little dJify that grows upon the cold
ground has a fecret and infentible virtue wrapt in its leaves and flowers;
and have thefe celefiial bodies no injluences but what we now and then
catch with our eyes, as they occafionally fparkle their. dim glances upon
us? Yes, they have each of-them a fecret power and virtue, wherewith
they act upon all earthly things, as well by day as by night, and in cloudy
as well as in.clear weather. But, as their operations are not performed by
fenfible and palpable means, it follows that· they have a fecret and hidden
way of rule, whereby the influences are imperceptibly infufed into every
concern·of this life. And, as h avt: the fiars, fo alfo have the fun and
moon, a fecret and imperceptible aCtion, peculiar to themfelves; for it is
not the mere heat that gives life, nor the mere moifture that fufiains it;
for, if that were the cafe, then might man make living creatures artificially.
It is true that heat may hatch the eggs, but all the ingenuity of man can-
not make an egg that can be hatched ; for there is a fecret operatioQ. of
the fun and moon, independent of heat and moifture, neceffary to the pro-
duCtion of life, both in vegetive and fenfitive animals. And in thefe
fecret and infenfible operatiens, befides the light that they give, confifts
that rule which the fun, moon, and fiars, were ordained to exercife over
all the fons of day and night ; and herein are written all thofe ordinancu
of the moon and ftars, which are to be a law unto mankind, and to the
whole body of nature, fo long as the world t endures. Thus the ftars
have their natural influences, afligned to them in the frame of nature,
from the beginning of the world; and thefe influences are dift"ufed upon all
earthly things, as far as day and night extend their limits. And this God
• See Jeremiah xxxi. 3S• and Gen. i. 18. t Jeremiah xxxi, 35, 36.
him-
1
Digitized by Coogle
..
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 27
· · ~ ·rms, when he fays to Job, " Canft thou bind the fweet
'Mces of Pleiadu, or loofe the ·bands of Orion ?-Canft thou bring
. .r~azzaroth in hi's.fea.fon; or canft thou guide Arcturus with his f~ns•?"
"- 1cnce it is evident that the ftars called the Pleiades have their ordinances,
· is, their Jweet injluences, which no power of m~n is able to· reftrain.
• 1 the fl:ars of Orion have their ordinances, and binding faculty, by
t·, ~ers in fummer, and froft in winter, bringing fuch an hard and tough
t of armour upon the ground, as all the contriva(lces of man are not
! to prevent. Thus Mazzaroth, and t Arcturus with his fons, have
, their ordinances, and the whole hoft of heaven have their courfe, by ·,.
kh the purpofes of God, and all the events of this life, are uniformly
mght to pafs~ . ·
To this purpofe it is faid, by Deborah the prophetefs, 'That the jlars of
heavenfought in their couifes again}J Sfftra t, not by fword or fpear, nor
by thunder or lightning; b'ut by thofe fatal and malevolent i":ftuences,
wherewith Sifera and his hoft were marked from their cradle, and drawn
together, by the operations of time and chanf_e, to partake in one common
deftruction in the fame day. And to this dfeti the Almighty difcourfes
with Job, concerning the trea.fores of thefoow and hail, . which he has hid
againfl·the time iftrouble, and the day ifwar and§ battle. Now what can
we fuppofe the meaning of this hiding to be, but the order of thofe me-
teors, fo curioufiy lodged within die arms of the ftars, and withheld by
their influences, that they may fall by due courfe of nature, at fuch exaH
periods, as to effect the puniiliment of the wicked, and of God's declared
enemies, fuch as was Sitera, at the precife time when their' abominations
call forth the judgments of.an injured and incented Deity? Aod after the
fame manner the light and heat, the wind and rain, the thunder and
lightning, the froft and dew, are.all of them fo admirably contrived in
the pofition of the heavens, that. they come to pafs in their due and ap-
pointed feafons, and make the grafi to grow even in the wildernefi, where no
man 11 dwells. Now it muft be obvious to the meaneft underftanding,
that, if thefe things were regulated by a virtue immediately i1fuing from
the bofom of the Deity, then would the lightand heat, the wind and
rain, and all the reft of them, fall only where men and beafts dwell, who
may fee and enjoy the bleffings of them, and -adore and glorify Him who
fends them; but, fince they fall equally where neither man nor living
creature is to be found, it follows, that they fall by virtue of means, and
that in a continued courfe, wherever thofe means lead them, making the
• Job xxxviii. 31, 3z, 33· 1See Argol. Aftr. ante Ephem. Jib. ii. cal'. 8. Stella: tempef~
tuofae funt Orion, Arcturus, &c. pluriofa: Pleiades. t Judges v. 2o. § Job xxxviii. zz, 23,
z4-, zs, &~ UJob xxxviii. 26, 27. ·
earth
Digitized by G.oogle
'
AN ILLUSTRATION ~.
earth fertile and produCtive where eaters are not to be found as
where they are.
·~
Thus far both Scripture and Reafon unite, in confirming our belie
the ftarry influence; but, there are fo many other proofs of it, in the o
dinary productions of nature, that it would be highly unpardonable
I to pafs them over in filence. The loadftone affords us one very ftrikin
example, by its attractive and expulfive faculty, and by the magnetic vi
tpe it has a power of communicating to other difi:inCl: bodies. Thus we.
fee a needle, only touched with the loadftone, and placed in the compafs,
will conftantly point towards the north pole, and, though it be ever fo
far diftant, or though rocks anrl mountains, or even the earth's body, in-
tervene, yet it retains this direCtive property in fo extraordinary a. degree,
that it will continue precifely in the fame direCtion, unlefs violence be
ufed to prevent it; and, even after it has been removed by force, it will of
itfelf return to its former fituation, without the leaft fenfible difference.
The properties of the loadfrone in many other refpeas are fo very inex· .
plicable, that the experiments of our moft celebrated modern mathema.
ticians have not been able t'o afford us a fatisfactory definition of them.
This however is certain, that it could not poffibly imbibe thefe miracu.
lous properties without the aid of feme celefrial matter, which is com-
municated to it by the influence of the pole-frar, or fome other of the
heavenly bodies within the polar circles, from whence it is manifeft the
loadftone receives thete fecret and admirable qualities. Another afto-
nilhing effect of this influence may be obferved in the natural produc.
tion of life and motion; how it ftarts up and grows, and continues in the
lap of heat and moifture, proportionably conjoined, and perfect in all its
parts, beyond the utmofr of our comprehenfion whence it comes, or
which way it is maintained, unlefs by the operation of this fecret and in-
vifible influence.- And, if this be deni~d, I would wilh to aflc., Whence
the rote, furrounded by ill-fcentc:d weeds and .thift1es, derives its fragrant
fmell ? or how the plantane, by the path-way fide, acquires its admirable
virtue of healing fores ? or which way the lily, ftanding up to its middle
in mud a1~ d mire, receives its coat of many colours, fo beautifully wrought,
as many times we fee it is ? or how a grain of wheat, thrown into the'
cold earth, putrific:s and • dies, and then frarts up into new life, and mul- ·
·'tiplies into an ear of thirty or forty grains for one? Or tell me how the.
m.~tlt:r in an egg, by the fitting of the hen, is in a few weeks animated,
and converted into a chicken, that will eat, and walk, and chirp, the mo-
ment it emerges from the lhdl? Or by what means the feed in the womb,
without any art, or tkill, or knowledge of the mother, coagulates, and
• St. John xii. 3f.
turns
' Digitize byGoogle .
2
.....
.
, -
•.•
0 P .A ·s T R 0 L ·
o G Y. :39
.,.l&llln"i
·rn. .flelh a~· blood, receives life, and is fo admirably formed ihto
rfeCl:. child, that )earns to cry, and fpeak, and ca11 ? ,Y~u will fay..
, That this is the immediate workmanihip and effeCt of God.
is we·already know; the only quefiion is, how he does it.; whe-
thet by means, or without? If without means, thJn every ~hild that is
born, and every feed that grows oat ofthe ground, muft of neceffity come
to pafs by a new· creation J for to bring things ·into exiftence without
means, is the fame as to·produce them without matters and requires no
more; but for the Akr.tiglrty to fay, Let t~ere ~men, or, Le~ there be
leaves and Bower$; and-, as the Word fays,· they come to pafs. .But we
are certain there never was more than-one creation, which was at the ~
ginning·of the world, and_ever finee that time all things are come to
pafs by a· regular courfe of nature.; and hence it follows that there mu~
be a· natural and ·efficient mea11s for the prod\ltl:ion of all things. And,
if~, then mufi: thefe things· come to pafs by an earthly q1eans alone, · or
dfe by the aid and afi"ttlance of fome celeftial·influence. But by an earthty
·mea'ns alone, it is evident, they cannot come to pafs J for we know ex--
perimentally, that neitlicr fire, earth, air, or water,·ean of themfelves ift'-
fufe into the rofe its grateful and· fragrant frnetl; it muft therefore pro-
ceed from the agency of fomc fpirituaJ. or material fubftance, far fuperior
in efficacy and virtue to any earthly element. If it proceeds from a fpt-
ritual fubfi:ance, it is efFected either by the aflgels, or by the fou~ of dre
· world. But by the angels we know it cannot be.; for they have their pe-
culiar offices aHoted them iri another way; at\d, though they are. fubjceh
of the world, yet are they .no part of the great frame of nature, from
whenceaU things in their order are formed• .And~ if it be dretled by the
foul of the world, then certainly muft there be fuch a foul fomewhere e•
ifting, which at preknt is a matter in difpute among the learned.; and this
foul muft have a fpccial feat in the world, ,vortby ofit-fclf, from whenee it
may iRform and aCluatc every minute partie:Je of rhe creation. If tbis be
admitted-, then it undoubtedly dwdls among the celetl:ial matter, and from ,
t~en.ce fttppliC8 the -earth, through the medium of the:heavenly bodies.
wiJh all that power and virtue.; which ht-ings to paft that variety of fuape,
colour, fmell,-life, and increafe, which we daily fee come to pafs. But
ff this bypothefis be denied, and it is- infifted -
that the earth is fup-
pFied ~ith·all her fecret virtues by Corne·fupernatural material fubftancc;
then name any ono thing be6dk:s the heavenly matter, aad the ftars of
·heaven, that can be fuppofcd to form that fubtlance, and tl\e argument
ceafes; for either way·it proves an inftaence and aftTology in the hee.-v.cas,
beyoaid-contradiction, and tliere wiH remain. only one qucftion to be do-
..cidea• .'YJl~c;~ it,:Wht;tllet tb,c.(c qeletlial inftuenc.- create the fucceifio~ of
earthly things byan immediate power from Go.t, Ql wBcthcr ahcco cxi~s
; · ··No. 2. F a gene:-
(
Digitized by Coogle
- .....
~ ~
,._,..
....-
a general foul in the world, .through the means of which they come .a
pafs in a due order and courfe of nature ? Utrum .horum ma'Vis accipe; I
contend for no more. "In the beginning God created the heaven and
the earth; and the earth was without form, and void; and darknefs was
upon-the face of the deep, and the fpirit <;>f God moved upon the face of
the waters.''. Here, when there was nothing but earth and water, and
darknefs overfpread all, the fpirit of God maintained that chaotic mafs,
and managed- the earth by the water, and the water and darknefs by
h.imfelf. But now both the earth and water are under the face of heaven,
.and the light is upon this heaven, and tho-fpirit of God moveth upon the
A N I L I, U S T R A T I 0 N
face of the heavens in that light;. and, as he aB:uates the earth and the
waters 6y the_ heavens, {o doth he actuate the heavens by himfelf. . And
agreeably to this idea fpeaks the prophet Hofea, when he fays, God will
hear the heavens, and they jha/1 hear the earth, and the earth the corn and
'll)tize and oil, and they jhaU hear • Jezreel;. wherein he lhews us that, as
man lives by corn and wine, fo they by the earth. and the earth by the hea-
vens; and, if fo, then by the heavens is it that t~ .earth receives all its effi-
cacy and vi.rtue, whereby it brings .forth fmell,. colour, tafie, and life.
Mofes alfo tells us, that Godjha/1 open his gDod treafot:e the heavms, to give
rain unto the land, and to bllji all t works qf our hands; whence it is evi-
dent that there lodges in the celefii~l influences a faculty of fortunating
civil affairs, as well as of managing natural things ; ·and that the root of
all earthly bleffings is from heaven. Mofes fays again, that tbefon, moon.,
andjlars, God hatb d!Jiri6ut~d unto all nations under heaven; and the
Pfalmifi, fpeaking of the fun and heavenly bodies, fays, they declare the
glory of God, and jhewforth his handy-work; day and night do.conti1Z1Jally
tell if them, and their 'Voice i's heard i'n all languages, and their words are
g011e into the ends qf the § world; by.which we learn that the heavens,.
and all the ftars therein, are full of fuch virtues as the whole world hath '
need of; al)d that thefe virt\leS God hath lodged in the heavens, to be
dealt out for the comfort and happinefs of his creatures upon earth. His
JPirit (faith Job) hath garni'jhed the t heav(ns; and !Jy the jpiri't of his
mouth was the whole army ifheaven made.
The notion, or idea, that there is one general foul atluating the whole
world, as there is one foul informing every man's body, was not only the
opinion of the Platonifts and ancient philofophers, but alfo of many
learned men in later ages; and I muft confefs, it appears very reafonable to
believe, that the world has fuch a foul. For were there not one and the.
fame general living virtue, comprehending the whole fyftem of nature,
• Ho!'ea \t. 21, 22. t. Deut. uviii. u.
l Job XXYio 13. Pfal. uxili.J6.
§ Dcut. iv. 19• ffal. zix. ,,,, 3t 4, S•
from
Digitized by Coogle·
.
, .
·
•. 0 F ·A S T R 0 L 0 G Y
from tbe e%terior circumference of the heavens tb the inmoft' centre of tlie
earth,. how could the fympathies and antipathies of nature poffibly work.
fuch ct>mpliances and differences as we know they do, at the amazing
diftances we fee them, and without any .vifible or imaginable contact;
- unlefs fome faculty exifts in .the world, that is capable of fua:aining thia-
invifiblc corrdpondency between one cr~ature and another i Wher~ life
is, thefe things arc eafily effeCled; as the child in the womb i~ pourHhed
by the food the mother eats; but in the inanimate part of the creation.-
we are at a l{)fs which wayto account for it. · Now, admitting that there
really is. fuch an univerfal foul exifting, yet is it queftionable whether
this foul be intelled:ual, or merely vegetive. That there is an intelled:nal
power informing the whole world, a_
s the foul does the bod)', i& not to be
doubted ; for othcrwife the whole frame of nature would be inert and
motionlefs; but then, if we admit the foul of the world to carry this-in..
telled: in its own brain, it will follow, that this foul is a God; for an
intelleClual being, filling heaven and earth with its prefence, is an attri-
bute·of • Gods. Hence I conclude there is an univerfal. foul in the
world, but. that it is only vegetive, and not·intclled:ual; and that in &Ilia -
foul dwells the fpirit of Almighty God, who filleth the heavens and'the
earth with his prefence, and from hence garnilheth the heavens, and
c:aufeth the precious influences of the fun, moon, and ftars, to be diftri-
. buted into all parts pf the § world. And thus God rules immediately in
· &he heavens, but rules the world mediately by the heavens. lt is true,
indeed,. that God is equally well able to govern and maintain the world
without means, as he was at firft to conftitute and create the frame of na-
ture; but {uch is His divine will and pleafure, that he has thought fit to
bring all things to pafs by virtue of means, as ordained from the beginning
of the world. It is a com111on and tr.u~ maxim, that .God and nature-
have made nothing in vain;. and yet it is as true, that grafs and herba
grow where no- creatures liye to eat t them. Now, were the world go-
v~rned by God's immediate prefence only, then w.ouJd the produClion of
this '-gr.afs and herb be a wo·rk in vain; becaufc God's word brings.
forth all things at pleafure; and,-having a power of increafing or di~i­
nifuing its op~11t_i9n in a moment, would certaiQly .not have brought forth
this fer.tility in :an uninhabited anq d~folat~ country. But nature, running
her courfe. by a conftant and unchange~ble decree, has .no.power fo .ccafe
her work without a miracle, and therefore, though th~ grafs rn11y grow in
vain, yet ·qature's opePations are not in v.ain, fince by one and the fam4:. .
,;_
a\lfq it pro~uces veget~t~on in alf parts of the w~ld.. .
• See Jer. xxiii. 23; J.f.t 2S• § Aets xvii. as; ]<lb xxvi. l3i
t Job D~.Yiii. 26.
Deut. iv. 19;
Know~~:
Digitized by Coogle
A N I L ·L u ··s:T R· A T I 0 N
KtriJ'flllt tmlo GtJd ~We all his worlu,.ft-om tht !Jeginning'of the • 'WCrlil; and
t)erefore it woald be derogatory to the attributes of the Deity, not to be-
lieve that the minuteft events of this world were forefeen and pt'ovided·
for in that mt!>ft perfeCt ftame or model oF n-ature, whi:cb, as we have aJ..
ready fcen, may be compared'to the confirulftion ofa watch, confifting of
puny fmaU wheels, regulated by one mafter-wheel, or firft mover;' which
km1
g wound up at the creation, with the line of time, of a feeminglys
.infinite length, has ever fince been winding off, unto the pre(ent hour J-
and yet is there A:itl more line upon the wheel; but how much remains,
M only in the br.eaA: of. the Almighty. And-when thi~ line lhaU be en-
tirely wo~Rd' o6, thea .will the 'frame of' nature fi.nd its t period, an<J: all
fttbordiuate w~els \'till ceafe their motion. But until that time, there
is allotted ia. thi.s fram~ of nature, unto every one that comes into the
world,.. a certain Qrdcr or courfe of life, by which he r11-n8 th~:ough fick- ·
nefs and health, honour and dilhonour, and all the occurtencet of life,
from his cradle ~o the grave. F9r in!an is, as it were, a littl-e world within
himfclf.; and, though he A:and but$ one wheel in the frame of the great
world, yet within this one there (eems- many thoufands of wheels, ef,RC-
cialJy·in enterprifing people, which appear to move one within another
almoft 11d infinitum, till the thread turned on the outer wheel break, or ,
elfe be woand off, and there they make a ftop, and die. All thek things
God, who made man at the firft, per.fetl:ly knows, and foreknew from
the beginning of the world; and, by this order of man•s life, he perfectly
knows all the pa1fages of our lives. and even the moll fecret thoughts of
&ur hearts, both 1keping and :J: wakiag; and how one thought drives off
and brings on anot'her; afld continues fo.doing till th,e laft moment ofour,
life, when oor breath fails. Now ev'ery ~an being, as it were, a wheel
,fDf the great wwld, it will follow that all men move in a certain frame or
wheel above themfelves, by virtue of which the mafter-wheel of e'Very
man•a life .is pat in motion; ·and this wheel is fubordinate unto others,
aad thefc atfo unto the mafror-wheel of the whole world, which is the
high and mighty wheel of heaven, wherein the fun, moon, and ftars areil
{et, SO carry on the great works of nature, unto the end of time. And
hence comes the original of cv~ry man's nativity, and of aU natural qua-
Jitin, paffions, and incidents of our·livcs, except the motio8s of our f~
will and rcafon, whith may be allured and inclined by the works of Aa.;.
. ture, b\lt cannot be f~rc~ . by them. Now above-and beyond this great
wheel of natus:¢, .there i9 yet another {wheel; within which the heavens
themfelves arc turned;- anti herein is that·great and hidden line of tirno,
whereby rtbe 'Y~ole ~orl~, with, a.l! its depen_
dcnci.es,:.is _made, to h:o&d .on
and contmue 1ts mouon,~ unto the final end of a~l thmgs;. .an4 thia ltu•
'. • A~ xv. 11. t 2 Peter iii. t John ii. &.f.J 'S· § s Cor. xii. s, 3, 4-
pcndous
Digitized by Coogle
'·
· I r• •
0 F --A S T R 0 L 0 G Y'. '43
pendous wheel is G.od himfelf, \vlio.draws ou.t the line ol ~Ime, ~nd,fitt/ng
upon the circles of 'the earth, h~ flret~hes out the _
heaven_
s as a curtain, and
beho/deth all.the inhaoitants ofthe world·as grtifshtJppers 1111der h(s •.ftet;
and hence he difcerl)s, _
a _
s:it were, with o~e vie.w, all the World naked
before him, both _.l'aft, prefent, and to_
come. .· . . _- ·
· From what has been advanced, it appear-S obvious that every occurrence
· of our l~v~, and all the various produtlions pf nature~ however ftrange.
or incomprehenfible they rrtay appear, are .brought to pafs by a regular
and eftab1ilhed means, decr~~d .by the wifdom of GQd, at the, begin-
ning of the world; and .confequently, whatever happens by a contrary
e.ffea, niu£1:' of neceffity be produced by the immediate hand ofGod, and
confiitutes a miracle. Such was. the cafe when the Almighty made 'the
fun and moon fiand ftill ; and when, at the prayer of Ifaiah, he reverfed
_
its courfe, and 'Padeit retrograde. Such alfo were the works'of our Savi-
our, when he ra1fed the dead, and gave fight to men born blind. And fuch
was the work of God, when tbe fea made a lane for men to pafs through
.on dry ground; and when the fire had no power to fcorch nor tQ burn
thofe who walked in the midft of t it. Thefe miracles, it is true, had
no immediate dependance upon the works ·of nature;· and yet, as God
from the beginning faw the nec~ffity of them, and the occafion upon
which .they would be required, it is- reafonable to fuppofe he fet down in
his eternal mind the contrivance of thefe miracles, and fo ordained them
to keep pace.with the works of nature, and to come to pafs at ·their ap-
pointed Leafons,. without difturbing or deranging that univerfal frame of
the world, out of which all natural things proceed, and from whence all
-the hoft ·of heaven derive their faculty of influencing earthly fubfiances.
And that the heavenly bodies poffefs .thefe influences, in an infinitely
powerful degree, I bdieve will not be denied, fince both fcripture and
reafon, as we have now feen, fubftantially prove them. . The ancient .
philofophers were unanimous in fubfcribing·to this opinion, even with- .
out the teftimony of the facred "'ritings; and many very learned authors,.
in later ages, have fupported the fame doctrine. Milton gives us a very
.ftriking proof of his belief of the ftarry influence, in the following paf-
fage of his Paradife Lo~: · ·
To the blank moori
Her office they prefcrib'd; to th•other.five,
Their planetary motions· and afpects; - ·
In fextile, fquare, and trine, and oppofite,
Of noxious efficacy, and .when to join .
In fynod unbenign; and taught the _fix'd
. It Ifaiah xl. u, 23, &c. t See Jofh. x. rz, 13. 2 Kings xx. rl, Johnix: 6, 7• and xi. <f-'h53·
Exod. xvi. :a, u. J?an. iii. 27.
No. 2. G · Their.
' J
Digitized by Coogle
A N I L L U S T R A.T I 0 N
Their in.ff~ence malignant when to fitow!r ;
Which of them riling .with the {un, or falling,
Should pr.ove tempeftuous, &c.• ·
The ingenious Mr. Fergufon alfo proves, in a variety of inlt:ances, an
efficiency.and influence in tile fun and moon, thoughhedcniesthat any fuch
faculty exifts in the fixed ftars. And yet he has fitewQ, by very fatisfac-
tory obfervations, that " the fixed ftars arc fo many glorious funs, with
fyftems and worlds furrounding them fimilar to our own ;., and that
.. the Almighty would not have placed them at fuch diftances from each
~ther, . unlefs proper ~objeCts were near.enough to be benefite~ by their
Influences., Heace lt follows, from his own hypothefis, that the fixed
.ftars do each of them poffefs a natural t influence, homogeneal to the fun
and moon. But to what diftance the fixed fta~s, or any of the heavenly
_bodi.es, are capable of extending tQ-efe in1lue,nces, is beyond the power of
· the moft enlightened mind to determine; fince the celeftial matter flows
through a ooundlefs .and unlimited fpace,, and operates upori every fub-
. fiance that falls within the line·of its direction. And now, having made
it apparent, by an ~mion of ~onc.~rrent teftimonies, that the fun, ~oon;
and fi:ars, have the1r refpechve mfluences, and that an Aftrology m the
heavens does by confequence exift, it will he proper to confider how far
the fl:udy of this noble {cience is compatible with our moral and religi.;.
ous obligatio1is, and what degree of it i~ ~ttainable by the human under.
fianding. ·
That the ftudy and praCtice of Atlrology is a moral purfuit becomin&-
{ober and religious meo, may be colleCted from the cuftoms of the an.:. -
cients in all enlightened countries ; as well as from the heft and wifeft of
God's chofen people. And that our all-wife and beneficent Creator
criginally implanted in the frame of nature a means whereby mankind
may attain to the knowledge of fuch future contingencies as concern their
welfare and happinefs, is in no refpeet to be doubted, fince we obferve
in the brute creation, that even the moft inconfiderable creatures upon
the earth are more or lefs endowed with a gift of foreknowledge. Thus
the indufl:rious bee, -and laborious t arit, lay in their fummer fl:ore, to
!upply .the nece1fary wants of an inclement winter, which they foreknow
is-
• See Paradifu Loft-, b. x. J. 's6• t See Fergufon's Aftronomy, 6th edit. Se& ;f,-S, s, 9• 141.
J), &c. .
t Of all the race of reptifes, the ant, and fpider, and the tiee, appear to be endowed with,
the greatefi: lhare of fagacity. The wifdom of the ant is-confpicuous in forming themfelves-
into a kind of republic, and th,rein obferving, as it were, their own. peculiar laws and PO•·
Jicies. But the cunning of the fpider feems to exceed that of the rqofi: other infeCls; its various·
artifices tc. enfaare its prey are no lefs .remarkable than its coatrivance of a cell or ret~eat
behind its web, where it feafl:s upon its game in fafety, and conceals the fragments of thole
carcafcs it bas devoured, witbouc expofw&, to public view the leatt" l'Cmains of· its barbarity,
· whicb·
Digitized by G·oogle
.,
· 0 F. A S T 1t 0 L 0 G Y. 4S
' -
i& yet to come. The badger, ·and hedge-hog, and the mole, alfo pro·
vide themfelves a magazine of plants and herbs, which they foreknow will
enable them to lie concealed in theic holes, cturing the hard frofts of
winter, contented with their· prifon,. which affords them fafety. Their
holes are alfo confiructed with amazing art, and have generally two a.
pertures, that, in cafe one is befet by an enemy, they may efcape by the
.other. The doublings of the hare, and the tricks of the fox, to efcape
the bounds, are a)fo aftonithing indications of forefight and fagacity.
The feathered race are likewife endowed with a fimilar faculty, and often
foretel an approaching ftorm a-aonfidetable time before it appear•~ by re-
tiring in Hocks to their holes and hiding-places for lhelter and proteCtion•
.The birds of paffage feem to inherit this gift in-a moft remarkable de-
gree; fo~ they afiemble together in prodigious flocks, at an·appointed.
hour, and take their leave of us before the approach of winter, which
th~y forefee will.dell:roy the flies and other infcCl:s upon which their 'own
life depends, as they feed upon nothing elfe. And.it is no lcfs ex_
traor.-
dinary than.true,. that thefe birds return as early as the fun brings forth·
this clafs of infeCls into new life; and they have alfo the fagacity.to find out
.and repoffefs their fo~mer nefis and • habitations.. The fame provident
forec.aft, for felf-preferv.ation and fafcty, .is even ex.tended -to the innume-
rable inhabitants of the immenfe ocean, where we fe·
e the fi1hes, preffed
by; unce.afing hunger,, indifcriminately prey upon one another,. the large
upon the fmall even of its own fpecies; whence ~he · fmaller fith, .in re..
gular gradations, when in danger of being devoured, fly.for an afylum
.to the £hallow. wat~rs where they know their enemy cannot.or dares not
purfue them. And this purfuit of one fpecies of filh aft-er another, .is by
no ~ean·s _canfined to a tingle region; for ·we find · thoals of them purfu-
)ng,O()e another, from the vicinity of the pole even down to the equator;
·and thos' the cod, from. the bank of Ne\Vfoundland. purfues the whiting,
.wh~ch flies before it, even to the fouthern ihores of Spain. It is aftonifh'""
ing ~lio that herrings, which appear to.generate towards the north of Scotr
land, regularly . make their way, o~ce a year, to the Britifu Channel.
Their voyage is concluded with the utmoft reg_pladty ;. and the time of
.th_
eir departure is.fix.ed from the month of June to :Augull:: They alway$:
alfemble together. before they fet out,. and no ftragglers are ever found
-which might di"fiinguilb its place of abode, or create the leafi- jealoufy in any infell, that their
enemy was near. Into what hiftory can we look, to find people who are ~overned by.laws equal
to what we obfervc in the republic ofbees? What experience can we dchre beyond that we ob..
ferve in the cunning fpicler, to teach us to guard againfi- the artifices of thofe who lay fi1ares to
catch the thoughtleis and unwary ? Or what can exceed the indefatigable ant in teaching us Jef,
Cons offrugality·and indultry? ·Well might'thc wife man fay t() the ilothful ·and ignorant, Go, tho,.
)Juggard, to the a11t, confider her ways, and he wife.
• This bas been difcovered-by tying certain marks to their legs, or by cutting off a claw, &c:.
befere they, emi~rate. In the cnfuing fpring, if you prcferve their ncfts, you will find the
fame bi.rds will inhabit them, or-if you dellroy them they will rebuild in the .Lime place, .or
Aear it. ·
from
Digitize~ by Coogle
.,.
A N · I 'L L -US T '1. A 'r I ·o N
I
{tom the general t body. It i$ impciffiblc to affign any caufe for this
emigration, but it doubtl~fs-ly proceeds from the fame inftinCl:ive im.;.
·pulfe with which all orders of animate natu're are more or lefs endued.
Seeing then that tho fupreme Being, in his paternal regard for the mi-
nutoft part of hjs works; has .endued the roweft clafs of animals with a
gift of foieknowledge in what immediately concerns their· fc1fety and
welfare; .would it not be derogatory to the.equal providence of God, to
fuppofo he had not ordained, in an infinitely fuperipr degree, a means of
coinmunic;;ating foreknowledge to man, whom he hath gracioufiy formed
,in his own exprefs image and likenefs, and appointed lord over his vaft
·.creation ?-A creature whom he hath endowed with a rational foul, ca;..
pable of payinghim adoration and wodhip; and with an underftanding
.qualified to decypher the golden characters. he hath placed in the firma-
ment of heaven, for figns of'thofe hidden events-of futurity which are
yet to come? If we give the fcriptu'res an attentive perufaJ, we ihall
~nda variety of pa1fages to confirm this opinion, both in the old and new
·Tcftament. · And we may gather additional evidence; that tbe Almig~ty
intended we iliould fi~dy futurity, from the communications given to
Adam in Paradife by the angel Gabriel ; as well as from the commiffion Mi-
.chael the Archangel received from God, to thew him, in a vifion, ·the
principal events of futurity, from his fall, to the birth, refurreaion, an~ .
.afcenfion, of • Chrift. And I think I am warranted to fay, from the
authority of our Saviour•s own words, thal there appears only one event
concerning the human race, which the Deity .ever propofed to withhold
from their knowledge, and that is, the time of the la(l and terrible day
of judgment. But even of this awful and fecret event, we are promifed
fome previous intimations, by figns in the fun, moon, t and fiars ;
4Vhich are the common fignificators ofall inferior tranfactions of futurity.- ·
For this reafon we are told to watch, for no matJ k110Wet'h ·the .hour when
theft things jha/1 cpme ; therefore thofe who fiudy the fydereal fcience, by
their watcbfulnefs of the heavenly bodies, and their capability of difco-
vering fuch figns in the fun, moon, and ftars, whenever thetremendous-
fiat flull be paft, will be the firft to know that the vifitation of God is
at hana ; whilft thofe who condemn both the fci~nce and its profetfors,
.unprepared by any previous intimation, and folded in the -arms ·of
in~autious repofe, will find the fatal ·hour approach like a thief inlhe
t See .B'rookes:s Nat. Hift. 2d. edit'. umo. Yol. i. p. 25. Introd·. vol. ii. p. 168. vol. iii. p. 2,
-4• vol. vt. p. 9, .2o. · ·,
• See M ilton's Paradife.Loll, Books v. vi. vii. viii. xi. allP xii. Adam for this purpofe is faid
to be taken up to the top of an high hill, by Michael, who addrelfcs him in thefe lines :
Adam afcend
. This hill ; let Eve, (for I have drepch'd h.er eyes)
Here fleep below, while thou to fore/ight wak'ft;
1 As once thou lleptft, while fue to lit'e'was form'd.
t Matt. xxiv. 29, 36. Mark xiii. 24, 25, 3z. Luke xxi. zs.
. night;
Digitized by Coogle
O .F AS T R 0 L 0 G .Y' 47
. -
night§ ; when petrified and motionlefs, in bitter anguith and defpair,
they will t~o late repent their negligence and incredulity.
Now if we confider Aftrology, what it truly is, a legal and·virtuous
ftudy, we may eafily befieve_the ·accounts tranfmitted to us by Jofephus
and other 'hift?rians, ' concerning its antiquity and divine original. We
have already feen that Adam, previous to his expulfion from Paradife, was
inftruetcd in a foreknowledge of futurity, by the.exprefs command of
God, as a means of enlarging his mind, and alleviating his diftrefs, upon'
being turned adrift into the wide world. Jofephus, an hiftorian of cha-
rader and em~nence, who quotes the moll ancient authors of refpeClability
for what he a1ferts, confirms the fame thing, and further informs us, that'
Adam, before his death, inftruCted his fon Seth in this fcience, who after-
wards engraved th~ rudiments of it upon permanent pillars of ftone, which
endured through many generations, and were not entirely effaced tlJI fome
time atter the • deluge. We have it from the fame authority, that th'e
art was taught by Enos and Noah, who preferved it to the days of Abra-.
ham, and he increafed the knowledge of it by divine aids, teaching it to
the Chaldeans and Egyptians. Jofeph is alfo faid to have patronifed and
§ I would recommend a Cerious and attentive pe~ufal of thefe [c,riptures to every perfon . who
has doubts concerning the doctrine ?f A~rology. It is here pointed out, to the underfianding
of the moft unlettered part of manktnd, that the great and terrible day of the Lord, the day of
judgment, will moft affuredly come. Our Saviour's difciples enquire of him, When this day
lliall be ? He replies, '' Of that''day and hour knoweth no man, no not the ~ngels which are
"in heaven, neither the Son).. but the father only." They alfo afic, Whatfuall be the figns
hereof? They are told, " 'J. here fhall be figns in the furt, in the moon, and in the ftars; the
" fun (ball be darkened, and the moon lhall not give her_
light J ·and upon the earth ·difirefs of
" nations, with perplexity; the fea and the waves roaring ; with great earthquakes in divers
" places, and famines, and peftilences; fearful fights and great figns fhall there alfo be in tl1c
" heavens. Watch, therefore, far in an hour when ye think not filall thefe things COIJle ;.far
" as, in the days that were before the flood, they were eating and drinkiog, marrying and giv.-
" ing in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark; and they knew not, until the ftood
" came and took them away ~ fo alfo fhall the comint of the Son _of mari be. Then ihall be
" fend forth his angels, and fhall -
gather together his elect from the four winds, from the utter-
" moft part of the earth, to the uttermoft part of heaven ; then fhall two be in a field, the one
" fhall be taken, and the other left ; two women thall be grinding at the mill•. the .one· ihall be ta,.
" ken, and the other left. Therefore be ye ready, left, coming, he find you fleeping ; and what
" I fay to you, I fay unto all, WATCH." Now it is clear, from the above, that figns of great
· )lnd direful events are di{coverable not only by the celeftial bodies, but alfo by fearful fights in
the heavens ; by tremendous earthquakes; by total eclipfes of the two great luminaries, which
deprive them? for a time, of the power of giving light ; and by other extraordinary phenomena.,
which ihould always be attended to witb reverence and awe. Thefe figns our Saviour lnformet
his difciples iliould precede the defiruelion of Jerufalem ; and aftrologers, and other liiftorians;
have born record of the exact completion of this prophecy ; and it muft be {elf-evident to eve-
ry thinking mind, that the laft day will come to pafs exatlly in the way our Saviour ha5 dc-
.fcribed it. Thofe, therefore, who watch the heavenly configurations, and Jearn· to underftand
the figns our Saviour fpeaks of, will be timely informed of the approach of this direful day, and
found prepared; by repentance -a1.1d humility of heart, to be gathered with God's ele8; ; while on-
believini and impenitent mei!J given up to fenfual and care~fs habits, will be found lleeping
when the avenger.cometh. " In that day the ftouteft heart wall tremble, and the countenance of
the proudefi man will fall, befor.e the face of. an incenfed Deity." See Matth. xxiv.
Mark xui. andLukexx:. • See JoC. Am. lib. i. cap• .; i, n, ~t.
No:~. · H taught
.
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUST_RAT _
ION
taught it in Egypt, and is fuppofed by Otigen, Diodorus Siculus, and
·other ancient hiftorians, to have been the author of an afirological work,
called, The Aphorifms of Hermes the t Egyptian. Mofes afterwards
taught and profeffed it, independent of the gift of prophecy, which al-
ways came by divine infpiration, and confequently was ·only exercifed
upon certain extraordinary occafions. From Mofes, we are told, the pro-
phets _
and feers had it; and that it was afterwards particularly taught
among the tribe of Iffachar, ·who are on that acco~nt fiiled in the facred
writings, Men who had underjlanding in the t times, and were expert at re-
folving all queftions concerning futurity; and as this tribe were neither
priefis nor Levites, nor endued with the fpirit of prophecy, it follows
thai their underflanding in the timn, and their ability in foretelling future
events, arofe entirely from an acquired knowledge of the figns and influ-
ences of the heavenly bodies. For the fame reafon the Perfian aftrologers
were called mages, or wife men, who were fk.illed in the times; and the
Chaldeans termed their young ftudent"s in aftrology, Men jkilled in wffdom
and cunning §ftience, to learn the/earning ifthe Chaldeans. And, after the
Chaldean method -
of fiudying the fciencc of aftroJogy, Daniel, and Shad-
rach, and Mcfech, and Abednego, were infiruCl:ed by their tutor Melzar,
and became ten times more learned in all matters qfwffdom and undeij/atzding
· than all the ajlrologers in the realm, in confideration of which they were
elected members of the public • fchools at Babylon, which were founded
for the fiudy of this art; and Daniel was made, by the, king's decree,·
mafter over_the Chaldean U afirologers~ ·
-
In the days of Samuel, it appears to have been a common cuftom to go
to·the feers, or men of underftanding in the times,_ not only to be inform-
ed concerning future contingencies, but alfo to enquire after lofi goods•.
To this effect ·we find Saul and his fervants difcourfing, when they were
fent _
out to find the firayed affes of Kith, Saul's father; and, not being able
to find them, the fervant propofes to go and enquire of the leer, which way
the affes were gone, and where they may be found. Saul agrees to this, but
fk.s, What have we to give him? we have no bread left, nor have we any ·
tifjicient prifent. The fervant r~plies, I have a fourth part ofa jhelul'if
.filver; 1'1/ give him that. Saul anfwers; Well foid; let •• us go. This
paffages enables us to difiinguifu between the gift of ·prophecy, for the
purpofcs of efiablilhing God's true rfligion, and the art of anfwering ho-
rary queftions, and predicting future events. The one was evidently ef-
feCl:ed by fupernatural means, and promulgated to the people without
t Oriz. tom. in Gen. Diod. Sic.lib.i-. cap. s. t I Chron. xii. 3%. ~ Efth. i. 13. Dan. i.4.
In fome of thefe fchools Abram is faid to have been taught; and tbt Belus, the father of
Nimrod~ afterwards built the fchooJ.houfe where Daniel was inftruaedin this fcience. See
Jof. Ant. Jib. i. cap. 8•. Diod. Sic. lib. i. cap. 8.
1 Dan. i. 4, s, 1I, 17, 18, rg, 2o, u. 13. v. n.
I
~· 1 Sam. ix; 6, 7, 8, ro.
expence;
Digitized by Coogle
·· 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 49
expence; whiHl: the other, by being calculated for the benefit of refpec-
tive individuals, was always accomp,a!lied with money or prefents. In
the fame way we find David, when in Keilah, where he heard that Saul
was coming to 'befiege him, was defi.rous of knowing the truth, .whether
Saul was coming or not; and if he was, Whe~her the men if Keilah would
be true to him, or would betray him. And being informed they would
betray him into the hands of the enemy, who, were feeking his ·life, he
fled into the wildernefs of Ziph, and efcaped the danger that was im..
pending over t him. And in the New Teftament alfo, we have fre -
que~t c?nfirmations o~ the.meteoro]o~ical p~rt of this f~ience, from our
Sav10ur sown words, 1n h1s converfat1on With the phanfees, who wer~
all verfed in afirology. He addrdles them to this effet1 : " When it is
., evening. ye fay, it will be fair weather, becaufe the iky is red ; and
u in the morning it will be foul weather, becaufe the fky is red and
" lowering. And,. when a cloud arifeth out of the weft, Hraightway y.e
" fay, A 1hower cometh; and it is fo. And, when ye fee the fouth-wind
" blow, ye fay, There will be heat; and fo it .comes to pafs. Ye hy-
, pocrites, ye can difcern the face of then. iky, but the figns of the times
" ye cannot difcern." . And now, if we impartially c.ontemplate the
origin and antiquity of this fcience, and recollect that the betl: and wifefr
men in every age of the world were pr:ofeffors of it,_we muft admit its
pr~ctice to be highly confiftent ·with all our moral and religious duties•.
That the human undettl:anding is alfo capable of attaining to a very
high degree of knowledge in the hidden works of futurity, and in the
fecret operations of nature~ is likewife to be proved, beyond the power
of contradiaion. Indeed .the pa1fages already quoted from. the holy
fcriptures are a fufficient confirmation of it to every difpaffionate-reader i·
'but, as there a-re fome very extraordinary inftances of this prediCttive fa-
. c.ulty recorded by different hill:orians, I will juft mention a few. of
them~ by way of corrobating the evidence already brought in its fup•
port. 'I he Emperor Domitian required the profe1for Largius Proculua
to calculate his nat.ivi.ty, from the fuppofed time of his birth,_which was.
.done; and_ delivered into the emperor's own hands.. Afclatarius, a moft
famous afirologer· of thofe ti~es, procuring a copy of this nativity, rec•
1
tified it, and foretold the hour and manner of the emperor's death; which
when D.omi~:u1· heard; he commanded A{clatarius to be brought before
]i;im~ :w.hen .he affirmed his prediClions would .prove true. Domitian afk..-
.c~ him if he could foretel the manner of his own death ? Afdatarius- re.-
j>~ed~ That h~ 'k~ew ·he iliould 1hortly be torn ill pieces by dogs ; but, ~
confute ·th~ aftrologer, the .em.peror order~d him to be burnt .alive. The
cruel fentence was accordingly put in execution; his body was bound·and.
' .. . '
. ' . . .
t .1 Sam. uill. 10, u, x~, 13, 14. HSec:.Matth, xvi. ~ Luke xii. 2f, SSt s6, .
Jai.d
Digitized by Google
so
laid upon .the pile, and th'e fire kindl~d; but at that infiant there arofe a
dreadful fiorm of wind and rain, which drove the fpeaators away, and
extinguithed the fire; and Afclatarius was afterwards torn in pieces by
dogs, as he had foretold~ When Latinos informed the emperor of this
e-vent, he was greatly mortified, anrt very' melancholy; and, on the day his
afl'affination had been prediCted, he fdgned himfdf indifpofed, and locked
himfelf up in his chamber. Stephanus, the captain of his guards, went to
his door, pretending he had received fome important difpatches, which
he wanted to deliver to him; but, Domitian declining to admit him till a
certain hour was pafi, Stephanus perfuaded him it was then much later
than the time fpecifi.ed. The emperor, in confequence, concluding the
danger to h:ive paffed by with the hour, or looking upon the prediCtion a~ a
mere fable, teeing no confpiracy or danger abou(him, opened the door,
upon which Stephanus ftepped up to him with a drawn dagger, and ftabbed
him to the heart, in the very hour that had been predicted by the afl:ro-
loger, on the eighteenth day of September, the month he had ordered t~
be called • Germanicus. The fame writers add, that Apollonius Tyaneus
was at that infiant of time at Ephefus, fianding in the prefence of the -
magi(lrates, and in a kind of ecftacy cried out, 0 Stephanus, ll:rike the
tyrant; and after a paufe added, 'Tis well, thou haft killed him. This art
of rectifying nativities, a difcovery which brought the fcience _to ·very
high perfeCtion, and has enabled its profe1fors to be afi:oniiliingly exaCt in
prediCtions of confequence. Thus Lucius Tarutius Firmianus, by·the
aCts of Romulus's lite, and the time of his death, found that he was borp.
in the firft year of the fecond Olympiad, the twenty-third day of the
mor;ath about fun-rifing. And hence he difcovered that the building of
Rome was begun when the Moon was in Libra, theSun with Mercury, and
Venus in Taurus, Jupiter in Pifces, and Saturn with Mars in t Scorpio.
The Archbiiliop of Pifa confultc:d feveral different profetfors of aA:rology
concerning his d_
efl:iny, and they all calculated his nativity ·
at different
times, ·and without any communication with one another; but they all
foretold him he would be hanged. It feemed highly incredible at the
time, becaufe be was info much honour and power; but theevent j uftified
the predictions; for in the fedition of Pope Sextius IV. in the fadden
rage and uproar of the people he was feized and t hanged. Petrus
Leontius, aceJ.ebratcd phyfician and afi:rologer ofSpoletanum,caft~is own
n~dvity, anq foretold that his death would be .occafioned ~Y .'Y~te.~, ~nd
many years afte~watds he was found drowned m a pond, mto wfi1eh h~
·hacffatl~n th~-pr~.c~ding night, by miil:a~ing his~ way. Jo(e~·b~s tells.~
j}e caft t~e nadvtttes of VefpaCian, and hts fon T1tus, a,nd ·predt.Cted that
·they woQl'd " ~otb _be_emp~rors; and fo it turned out~· ; .R:· .Cervinus
• i . . ~ . ( • : , , : , ~ , ~ . ~. I . .
• Vid. Sueton. in bomitian. t Vid. Peucer de Divinat. {eel. de Aftrolog. t Vid. Annal. ..
flor0ft4in. ~Joviott £log. 35• , · · · .. • . .:h:: .1. . -
· · · calculated
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T ·R. 0 L 0 G Y. St
calculated the nativity of his fon Marcellus~ and foretold that he lbould
come to great preferment and dignity in the church ; and, his mother
afterwards entreating him to marry one Ca1fandra Benna, he very refo-
lutely declined it, faying, He would not with the bands of rpatrimony bind
himfelf from that better fortune which the ftars had promifed him if
he continued to live fingle and unmarried. And he was afterwards really
made Pope •. Picus Mirandula was a fevere writer againft Afi:rology,
infomuch that he was termed, Flagellum AftrologoruQl; and, to fi:op the
malignity .of his pen, Lucius Bellantius, and two other aftrolog~rs of
eminence, procured the time of his birth, and calculated his nativity, i,
which they afterwards fent him, with this preditlion inclofed, "That he
would die in the thirty-third year of his age:' This exafperated him fo
much, that he began to write a new tract, with inconceivable afperity,
againft the poor aftrologers, attempting to prove their calculations a mere
bubble, and themfelves a fet of impoftors. But, when the fatal ap-.
pointed hour arrived, he faw the folly of his own conceits; recanted his
opinion, and fealed by his death a ftanding memorial of the inerrabiJity
and truth of this fcience. Many· other extraordinary circumftances of
the kind might be related from different authors, were .it not already
fufficiently ob\'ious that the intellectual faculties of man, when culti-
vated by fludy, and improved by obfer:vation and experience, are capable
of attaining a very extenfive degree of knowledge and 1kill in this art.
We will therefore difinifs this argument, and endeavour to ex9lain what <
the fubjeCls are that the fcience of Aftrology naturally comprehends. ..
Aftrology is compounded of a~n~r, jlar, and >.e/Ou d!foouife, and literaUv ·
implies, 'Ihe doCirine if the)Iars; teachingbow to judge of their effcds,
and fecret influences, and to foretel future events, by the order of.'their
different afpeds, qualities, and pofitions; and alfo how to difcover their
energy and furce upon earthly fubftances, in rhe wonderful and abftrufe
operations of the nature. It·comprehends the moft excellent part of that
noble fcience called Phyfiology, or natural Philofophy, which is the doc-
trine of natural bodies in the conftrutl:ion of the works of nature. The
body natural may be conceived either generally.. as one perfeCl and entire
body; or fpecially, as it .may be divided into two, or fubdivided into
many thoufand component parts. This grand and perfect body of na-
ture is called the World, or the whole world, which is generally confi-
dered as making but one entire body ; but this general body ad.mit$ of
many fpecial divifions and fubdivifions; and is firft divided into twc. ·
• Vid. Thuan. 1. 1S· It is rematkable that this predicnon was ~rinted at Venice, and'ptlb-
lilhed by Curcius Trojanus, in a book of nativities written by Gauricus, upwards .of three
years before.M.arcelkis Cervinus was proclaimed Pope. And this is that Pope, who, when tRC
Leelurer, liS the cuftom was, read a certain portion of the .writinss of tbf Fadlers at dtnnl'f'-
time, faid, " He could not conceive how thofe wbo held fo h•gh a place could provide
for their own falvation." •
No. 3· I branches
.,
Digitized by Coogle
.52 ·AN LL ·L·U·S ·T.~R. A·.T I 0 ··N
branches, making one body natural called Celellial, ·and another canel
Terreftial ; and hence arifc two -diftinct fcicmccs, '.the .one termed .Ura-
nology, and the oth~r. Geol?gy.
· Geology is a'fci.ence treating of the .natural body calte.d the earth, and
·fpeaks either genera~ly of the whole earth, or fpecially of the parts, or fomc
, particular, part, thereof; and is either fpeculative, or praEUcal. Specu-
.Jative ..Geology ·coJifill:s in the fimple inveftigation of the earth, either
.in whole, or in part, and of the principles and affetlions thereof~ .and to
~ this purpofe it treats either of the common being of any earthly··tbing,
merely as it •s a being abftraCl: from all matter, whether intelligible, ~
fenfible; and as it operates thus, it is termed MetaphJflical or Preter..;
natural Philofophy. But, if it difcourfes.of a movabLe:being in matter,
and that as it is perfealy material, it is then called Natural Phi1ofophy.
Or, if it fpeaks ofthings converfant in matter intelljgiblc, but not fen-
fible, as they are the abftratls of matter, .it is named Mathematical or
Abftraa Philofophy. . Of this fort of fcicnce:the fubjetl is ~antity,
· and is either continued, or difcrete. .If,of' (COntinued quantity, it is
.ca11ed Geometry, or its fubordinate, PerfpeCl:ive 1 but if the quantity be
.difcrete, it is then termed Arithmetic,.orits {ubordinate, Mufic. Na-
tural Philofophy properly fo called, ,treats of terreftrial bodies, either
fimple or mixed. The fimple ~bodies confift of the four elements,
called Fire, Air, Earth, and Water, which occupy all places, from the
utmoft and inferior bodies .of {the heavenly matter unto the inmoft ccn-
·trc of the earth; ·fo that ·,vacuum no where e:rifts under the cope of
heaven. The mixed .\>odies are compounded of thefe four clements, and
.are divided into animate .-and inanimate bodies. And all animate bodies
are endued either .with a,vegctivc, .fenfitivc, or rational, faculty. Now,
while we ftudy the.dotlrine of ·this earthly body natural, the fciences of
Geography, ~Hiftory, and Chronology, naturally flow from it: the firft
of which defcrib~s .the fituation and boundaries of the different parts of
-the earth,; ;·the fecond relates the hiftory of whatever bas been fecn or
tranfacted ,upon it; and the third computes and adjufts·all the different
,zras and _
portions of time, from the creation of the world to the pre-•
fent·bour. And fubordinatc to thcfc arc Topography, or a defcription of
particular places, and Chronologies of certain diftind periods of time•
.Pr~_ctic~l Geology is that part 'of natural Philofophy which confifts in
.Speculation, for the profit and advantage of manki_nd ; 'and leaves a track
,or fruit of its operation remaining, when the ad itfelf is paft and gone.
And this is a fort of ftudy cla1fed under the denomination of Art, rather
than of Science. The fuhjetl of it muft be either Man himfelf, or fome
fubordinate fubftancc. If Man be the fubjed of inveftigation, then the
objcfi will be to teach him precepts of morality ; and this we call
Ethical
Digitized by Coogle
•
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. S3
2'tbical Philofophy; orelfe to inR:ruCl him in JhcArtof Reafoning, called
Lo&ical Philofophy ; or in the Art of Speaking, which we term Gr~­
matical or Rhetorical Philofophy. But, if the Speculation be upon any
{ubordinate fubftance, then the Earth itfelf, or the productions of ir,
become the fubjeR of invelligation. If it be the Earth, then the bu(l-
nefs we contemplate, is to improve and cultivate the foil, for the en-
c:reafe of ufeful vegetation, which is called Agriculture J but, if it be the
produCtions of the earth. then the R:udy muft be fo to prepare and manu-
fatture them, as to render them the e1fentials of Health, Wealth, Food,
- or CJoathing; or whatever elfe is condua:ive to the comforts or neceffi:..
1ies of mankind. And thefe arc fcverally diftioguia1ed by as many fig-
nificant Terms as there arc occupations or employments, by the inven-
tion and ufe of which all thefe things are produced.
Uranology is a Science which treats of the natural body of Heaven•
after the fame manner as Geology defcribes that of the Earth ; and fpeak•
either generally, of the whole Heaven; or fpecially, of fomc particular
or diftinCl: part of it. And, as ·uranology is a part of Phyfiology, {o bas
it the fame principles, whether internal, as Matter and Form ; or ex-
ternal, as the cau{es Efficient and Final; and thefc are Principles of their
own nature, as Chance and Fortune are Principles by accident. It hath
alfo affeCtions internal, as Motion and Reft, and Finity and Infinity J
and the fame external, as Time and Place. Uranology is alfo either
fpeculative or praclical. Speculative Uranology confifts in the fimplo
knowledge of the Heavens, either in whole or in part, and of their
various Principles and AffeRions ; and to this purpofe it fpeaks of thefc
things either mathematically or naturally. · Mathematically, it treats
of Aftronomy, or Uranometry, which is a fcience that points out the
magnitude, meafure, and motion, of the heavens, and of the ftars there-
in ; aad naturally, it defines the qualities, motions, afpects, and opera-
tions, of the heavenly Bodies, and all their apparent and infenfible in-
fluences. PraRical Uranology is that fublime Art, which, being once
perfeCtly known and rightly underftood, enables a man, by his fkill in
the affedions of the Heavens and heavenly Bodies, to unbofom there..
moteft tranfactions of futurity, and to trace the myfterious and mod
obfcure operations ofNatu.re to their fource; whence be defines the in-
nate principles and virtues of all animal, vegetable, and mineral, fub-
ftances, and- points their refpective ufes, for the lafting profit and, ad·
vantage of mankind.
Having thus lhcwn what the word Aftrology imports, and arranged its
component parts by the rules of Science, it will be feen that its colla-
teral branches are fo extcnfive and multitudioous, that moft men, ofany
3 learning
Digitized by Coogle
54 AN ILLUSTRATION
· Jearni:lg or ingenuity at all, are Come way or other converfant in allro-
logy, without appearing to know it. But the perverfenefs of human
nature is in this inftance moft .ftrikingly vifible, fince it leads mankind
to a choice of inferior (peculations, whilft they utterly neglect an invefti-
gation of thofe curious, indifcernible, infenfible, and impalpable, tracks
of nature, which open t~ a field of unbounded information, calculated to
reform the mind~ and enlarge the underftanding; and to extirpate the
feeds of atheifm, · by leading to the moft fublime and heavenly contem-
plations of a Supreme Being. The common objetlions againft engaging
in this' elevated .ftudy are equally abfurd and ridiculous ; but they pro-
ceed only from thofe men who wilfully neglect, or ob.ftinately perfift in
a di1belief of, Nature's fecret and imperceptible works; and yet her ope-
rations are fo manife.ft, and fo often confirmed .by fatal experience, that
it is aftonilhing mankind are not more frequently awakened by them.
rhus we fee a man infiantaoeou.fly taken off, by a violent and feverHh
diftemper, and yet no one c<m poffil>ly conceive how or from what caufa
it proceeds; nor can the moll able phyfician, byanydepth of medicalfkill,
point out its genuine cauft', Jo as to iliew. that another man under the
fame fymptoms fuall be feized with juft fuch another diforder. But
l<>ok into the fick man's nativity, by the rules of Aftrology, and there
YQP will moft apparently fee the root and caufe of his affiicl:ion : and
hence .we demonftrably prove, that it was not fo much . the effeCl: of
catching cold, or of any accident, which brought on the malady, but
the evil infiu~nce of fpme m~lignant afpecl, that unperceived and unfuf-
peBed gave the fatal blow, while a.cold, or fomc trifling.accident, were
but mere infiruments ; for another man iliall have a worfe cold, and
fcarcely find himfelf the leaft fcverith, or expofed to danger;
Thus we find Aftrology comprehendsevery operation that proceeds.out
()f the mafter-wheel or frame of Nature, and furnHhes us with a know-
ledge of the occult virtu-
es of all earthly fubftances, and of the nature and
end of every parti~le of God's Creation ; and, to minds that can relifu
enjoyments fuperior to thofe of fenfe, nothing can furni(h more noble
and exalted pleafurcs than a contemplation and ftudy of thefc immenfe
works ; while nothing furely can give greater prooJs of an abject and
contracted mind, than to be daily convcrfant with, and yet fiupidly in-
fenfible of, the amazing miracles of nature. The fun, moon, and ftars,
were not made by a wife and beneficent Creator, that the wonders of
them fuould open themfelves to eyes that fee not, or difplay their in-
fluences unregarded to the incurious inhabitants of the earth. It was in-
deed principally for the plea(urc of Him by whom all things exifr, that
they are and Wfre created; who rejoiceth in his works-in furveying that
firuHure which omnipotcn~e ~one could raifc; but they are Iikewife de-
figned
Digitized by Coogle
·,
.
0 F A S T R Q_ ~- 0 ·G Y.
.
51
figned to communicate wifdom and happinefs, and inteUeaual and mo-
ral improvement, to mankind. And to him, who is not barely fatisfied
with an .external admiration of things, they will fuggeft fuch refteetions
as will maktf him both .wifer and better ; for, at the f"me time that they
feaft his imagination, they will enlarge his underftanding, and meliorate his
heart. Whatever pai1ofthe•()C)ksofn~ttKe we caft our eyes upoa, we lhalt
nnd imprinted therein ample.le6bos of ioftrud:icn and improvement.
Would we comt~mpJate the inelepreffible greatne!s and majefty of God, let
ut but look up and furvey the heavens, which ue fpread over us likea cur-
tain;. thty declut the glo"! t?f GtJd, antifotw forth hi~ bandy wor.i-they vifi.
bly fuew it forth to the rude and iiJiterate J but the mind which ia fraught
with tbiscomprthenfive ftudy tna'y for ever e]Cpand itfelf in the immenfity
ofthe profpect. Even the irrational and inanimate part of the .creation
ate held forth by the wifdom of God to direct the Beings of Reafon in
the way that they filould go ; and our Saviour in his parables defcends to
the lifelc{s emblems of feed ~wn, of the fig-tree, and of a ftngte grain
of muibrd-fCcdl, toenlighten the uo.derftandingof mankind. Is it not then
the duty ~f every rational cr-eature to improve by this divhle example, and,
by a ftudy of that excellent part of AftroJogy called Mtu.ral philofophy,
to increafe.our imperfeCt knowledge in the fubjeas .of creation·? Such
knowledge as this lies open even to the way-faring man; it grows in every
field, and meets us in all our paths; and., as it is moft important to be
well undcrftood by the reader before any material progrefs can be made
io the .Aftrology of the heavens, I fllatl conclude thefe obfervations with
il iliort introduction tO tbe ftudy of Nature. ·
. ' ,
A Summary
Digitized by Coogle
A N I L L U S; T. ~ A T ' I 0 N
A Summary VIEW of the W 0 R K S of CIt E.AT I~ N,. in the
C 0 N S T R U C T I 0 N of NAT U·R E.
NATURE is that which God has ordained Emprefs over all· the
Works of his Creation, and over every part of the Celeftial and'
Terreftrial World. This world com·prehends both the Heaven and·
the Earth, and is·compounded of three feparate and diftind: parts, which
are alfo called Worlds, namely, an Elementary world,. which is the lo.w-
eft in dignity; a Celeftial world, . which is next above the ·elementary l
and an Etheria.I world, which ia the higheft of all·; and thefc three lefs·
worlds, make the one entire Great World. In the ord~r of Nature, the-
ail-wife and fupreme Being has ordained that every inferior iliould be
governed by its fuperior; and by ·this .eternal decree, the Intellectual
world aCluates and governs the Celefiial, which conufts of the fun,
moon, and ftars, and all the boil: of heaven ; and the Cclcftial world
actuates and governs the Elementary world, aod all elementary bodies,
whether animal, mineral, or vegetable. .. ·
The Elementary world is compofed of the four elements, Fire, Air,
Earth, and Water, of which all things peculiar to the elementary world
are generated; but thefe elements, in the fiate wecommonly iind them, are · .
_not pure, bu~intermixed with each other; and they often change one into
the other by nature, as fire turns into fmoke, and fmoke into air, and air.
jnto water, &c. Each of thefe elements has likcwife two fpecific qua.
lities, viz. fire is hot and dry, water is cold and moitl, air is hot and
moifi, and the earth is cold and dry ; fo that fire is inimical to water,
and air to earth. Thefe elements alfo po1fefs three e1fcntial proper-
ties inherent in themfelves, viz·. air has motion, thinnefs, and darknefs;
.fire has motion, brightnefs, and thinnefs ; water has motion, darknefs,
and thicknefs; and earth b"lS darknefs, thicknefs, and quietnefs ; {o that
fire is twice more thin than air, thrice more moveable, and four times
n1ore bright ; air is twice more bright, three times more thin, and four
times more moveable, than water; water is twice more bright, thrice
more thin, and four times more moveable, t}lan earth ; as thereforefire is
to air, fo is air to water, and water to earth; and 'Vice vujiz, as earth is to
water, fo is water to air, and air to fire. Three of thefe dements have
motion, and are active; but the earth is fixed and paffivc, aod only {up-
plies matter for the other elements to act upon; for as nothing can be
produced unlefs matter be fubminiftered, .fo of neceffity one element
muft fubminifter that matter for the operation of the others : and no
influence could be difpenfed by the heavens, unlds there were elementary
bodies
Digitized by Coogle
() _
F A S T ll 0 L 0 G Y. 51
bodies to receive their infl'uence; therefore every ad:ive principle muft of
neceffity be in motion, and -every paffive principle muft be at.refi:. And
accordingly, as the aCtive clements find the earth that thc=y act upon
to be pure, or impure, fo· will the work be that is produced. The
earth can bring forth nothing of itfelf, but is t-
he womb or ~latrix: into .
which the other elements difi:il or projeCt their feminal virtues ; and in
proportion as it is impregnated by their force and energy, it brings forth,
according to the due courfe of nature. The Earth alfo receives the ce4
Jefi:ial rays and influences of all the heavenly bodies, as ordained by God, .
to be the obj.cd:, fubject, and receptacle of them; whereby it not only
brings forth what i-s intended to be produced, but alfo multiplies what,
it receives, and feparates· the good from the bad, and the pure from the
impure. It likewife contains the feeds or feminal virtues of all elemen-
tary bodies, and hath a triplicity in itfelf, viz. mineral, animal,. and ve;. .
getiYe. It is the common fountain or mother from whence all things
fpring, whofe fruitfulnefs is produced by the three-fo!d operation of fire, .
air, and water. And, ·as thefe elementary bodies poffefs moft extraordi-
nary qualities, it will be proper to confider each of them diftinttly, and,
to expJaih their feveral proper_
ties more at large. ·
Fire, the firft active element, is an ehftic body, compofed of infinite..,
ly fmall particles, fcarcely, if at all, adhering.to each other, and a body in.
motion. It is in e1fc:Et, the univerfal inftrument of all the motion and_.
aCtion in the univerfe; without fire, all bodies would become immove-
able, as !n a fevere winter we actually fee our fluids become folid for want.
of it. Without fire a man would harden into a ftatue, and th·e very air
would cohere into a firm rigid mafs. Fire then is the fole caufe of all.
mutation or change ; for all mutation is by motion; and all motion by
fire. -Upon the abfence of only a certain degree of fire, all oils, fats,.
waters, wines, ales, fpirits of wine, vegetables, and animals, become,.
bard, rigid, and inert; ·and the lefs the degree of firt", the Cooner is this
induration made. Hence, if there were the greateft degree of cold, and.
a11 fire was abfolutely taken away, all nature would grow into one con-
crete body, folid as gold,. and hard- as diamond; bu,t upon the re-ap-
plication of fire, it would recover its former mobility. So that upon
this one element of fire, depends all fi:uiditf of humours and juices; alfo
all vegetation, putrefaRion, fermen.ra~ion, animal heat, and a thoufand.
other things. Fire is in itfelf but one, though it centers in divers places.
It centers . in the heavens, and is boundlefs, where it guards and pre--
ferves- nature, aad enlivens all the creation, giving life, light, and mo-
ti<>n, to all creatures, and fUrs theiJl up tQ te~undity and fruitfulnefs. It
centers· alfo in the ea11th, where it gentrates metals, minerals, and ftones;
~nd, by join\ng itfelf with the beams ofthe celetlial fun an.d moon, pro41
duces
Digitized by Coogle
A N ·I L L U ·S T R A T ' I 0 N
duces vegttation upon the forfaco of the earth. · It occaficnai that b~ ·
we fometimes obferve in fprings and fountains; and imparts a principle
of its own .into whatever it produces, {o that what(oever retaini life re•
tains it by virtue of its own inclofed heat; and, whenever this is exhauft. ·
ed or ctxtinguHhcd, it pcrithes and dies. And, as water purgetb, clean'=tb,
and diffolveth, all thing~; that ate not fixed, fo fire purgeth and perfetldh
all things that a.re fixed; and, as water conjoins all things that are dif..
folved, fo fire feparates aJI things that are conjoined; it caufos all feeds te
grow and ripen; and, when they are ripe, it expels them by the fperm
into divers places of the earth ; and, ai the fituation and temperature of
thefe pla.ces are, whether hot or cold, moift or dry, pure or impure, fo
will the diverfity of things be both in the bowels, and upon the furface of
the earth. But, amongft all the wonderful properties of fire, ' there arc
none more extraordinary than this; That, though it is the principal caufe
·of almoft all the fenfible effects that continually fall under onr obferva- ·
tion, yet it is in itCelf of.fo infinitely a fubtle nature, that it baffics or de-·
feats our. moft fagacious enquiries, nor ever c~mes within tbe cogoi-
.zance of our fenfes.·
Fire may be divided into three kinds or fpecies, viz. celeftial, fubterra-
.neous, and culinary. CeJeftial fire is that which is peculiar to the celeftial
·regions, where it exifts in the greateft purity and perfcClion, unmixed
with fmoke, or any of that grofs, feculent, or terreftial matter, found in
•Culinary and fubterranean fire·; but allowingfor this difference, the e.tfetts
·of the celeftial fire appear to be the fame as. thofe of the culinary. · Sub..
·terraneous ·fire is that which manifefts itfelf in bery eruptions of the earth.
·-volcanoes, or burning mountains, a~d is always found in the more central
parts of the earth, and often in mines and coal-pits. 9ulinary fire is tbat '
·whieh we employ in all chemical operations, and in the cotnmon occafwns
·of life. To afcertain the force and power of fire, the learned Boerhaav.
e
·made innumerable curious experiments, which enabled him to divide it
·into fix degrees.. The .fidl degree is that by which nature performs,the
· . · office of vegetation in plants, and by which chemiftry imita.tes ami doea
•the like. This commences f-rom the higheft degree of cold, which in.
Fahrenheit's thermometer is denoted by one~ and ends at eighty degrees.
<.f,nce .in this. wbo]e interval vegetables of one kind or other give indication
-of life and .growth·; fo that if all plants be examined by ,the degrees of
'heat contained within thefe limits; we flull find all of them come to ma-
;turity in one or.other of .thefe intermediate degrees. This heat is fuited
.to extrad:ing ·the native fpirits of.odorifcrous vegetables with oils, as that
_.· of rofes, jeffamio, and ·the like. Thus the fragrant fceht of.rofes may be
/ : ~communicated to oil, by putting·the ino:doroo-& and inlipid oil of olives ina .
· ' 'tall .clean .chemical_glaf•, and d~goftin_g i~.in a heal .of fif!y..fix .degrcea.
' .~itla
Digi~ized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
with the moll: fragrant rofes, gathered ju£1:: as they are opening in a morn-
ing; the applieation of a fimilar·degree of heat would alfo impregnate
alcohol with the pure£1:: fpirit of faffron. The fecond degree of fire may
be accounted that of the hu·man body in a healthy f\ate. Thjs degree is.
always greater than that of the ambient air, and may be fuppofed t-o
commence at the 40th degree of the thermometer, and end about the
94th. Within this compafs animals may live and fubfi.£1::, that is, if their.
juices be of any degree of heat within thefe bounds. !he eggs of inf(cts
fubfift unhurt during hard winters,. and hatch in the fucceeding fpring.
Filhes,. both of the fea and of rivers, live in water which is only thirty-
four degrees warm- and filhes.that have lungs, and all refpiring animals-
in a ftate of health, communicate to their humours.a warmth of ninety-two.
degrees ; and therefore the utmoft limits of this degree are fixed at thirty-
three and ninety-four. Within the compafs of this heat are included. the
vital aCtions of animals; the fermentation of vegetables, and the putre-
faCtion both of vegetables and animals ; and likewife the generation,.
breeding, hatching, birth, and nu.trition, of animals. This degree 'is alfo
employed by chemiO::s to prepare elixirs, volatile alkaline faits, and. tinc-
tures. The third degree of fire is that which extends from ninety-four
degrees of the thermometer to 212 ; at which Jaft, water u(ually boils.
This degree is req.uired in. the di(lillation of fimple and compound wa-
ters~ the effential oils of vegetables;. and will coagulate or confolidate the
feruin, blood, and other animal juices, and confequently deftroy life.
The fourth degree of heat may by reckoned from the degree 2 12 to 6oo;.
·within which limits all oils,, faline lixivia, mercury, and oil of vitriol, are·
difiilled; lead and tin will alfo melt and mix together., The oils, fahs.,
and faponaceous Juices,.of animals and vegetables, are rendered volatile and
acrid, and become more or lefs alcalefceot ;. their folid,parts are calcined.
and lofe their diftinguHhing qualities :and proper vi,tues;. and with this.
degree of fire, foffil fulphur and fal armoniac are fublimed. The fifth
degree is that _
wherein the other metals melt,. and which commences from
fix hundred degrees. of the thermometer, and ends where iron is held in a
ftate of fufion. In this degree moll bodies are deftroyed; but glafs, gold,.
fil~er,. coppei", and iron,. remain long unchanged; all other fixed bodies
grow red-hot in this degree,. and all the unvitrifiable ftones are calcined..
The fixth and higheft degree of fire hitherto known, is that of the bu-
rn-
ing lens, or fpeculu.m, by M. Villette, Tfchirnhaufen, Butfon, and others.
The focus of thefe lenfes will even volatilize what is called the metalline
or mercurial part of gold, and vitrify the more terrefirial. The utmoR:
degree of fire is the vitrification of fixed bodies, whic.h the·ancien.t magi,
or the aftrologers of the eafi,. difcovered; and they predicted the final
end of the world by fire, and its mutation into tranfparent glafs.
Air is the next attive element that engages our attention, and it is. di.
vided into proper or elnnentary, and co11tfllon or hett!rogene,us. Elementary
No.3· · L air,
oigitiz~d by Coogle .1'
.'
'6o AN ILLUSTllATION
.ai.r, properly fo called, is a fubtile, homogeneous, elaftit; ·matter; .thebafit ,
or fundamental ingredient of common air, and that which g.i.ves.it tho
denomination. It likewife enters into the-·co~pofition of moft ~r .Perhapt A
.all bodies, and exifts in them under a folid"'fromf deprived of tts elaf- i~ .
ticity, .and moft of its diftinguHhing properties, and {erving as the ce-
ment, and univerfal bond, of nature; but capable, by.certain procetfes, .
of being difengaged froq1 them, recovering its elafticity, and refelllbling
the air of our atmofphere. The peculiar nature of this aerial matter we .
'know but little of; what authors have advanced concerning it being·
chiefly con-jeaural. We have no way of altogether feparating itfrom the
other matter, with w1lich, in its pureft ftate, it is more or lefs combined,
.and confequently no way of afcertaining, with fatisfadory evidence, its
peculiar properties, a~ftradedly from thofe of other bodies. Philofophers
both ancientand modern maintain, with·great plaufibility, that itis the.fame
'With the pure ether, or that fine, fluid, aCtive, matter, diff'ufed through the
·whole expanfe Qf the.celeftial regions, and of' the interior heavens; and
is fuppofed to be a bodyfui generis, ingenerable, incorruptibl~, immuta-
ble, prefent in all places and in all bodies. · · . . . . -
·Common ·or heterogeneous air is a coalition of corpufcles of various
'kinds, .which together conftitute one common mafs, wherein we live and
moYe, and which we are continually receiving and expelling by refpiration.
The whole a1lemblage of this makes what we call the. atmqjphere; and
·wbere this air or atmofphere ends, there the pure ether is fuppofed to
commence, which is diftinguilhed from air, by its not making any fenfi..
-ble refraCtion of the rays of light, as air does. This common air, fays
:the ingenious Mr. Boyle, is the moft heterogeneous body in the univerfe; .Poit,;;:;,l
4-
and Boerhaave thews it to·be an univerfal ~haos, or.coUuvief: of all kinds JJ~4--:;.
of.created bodies. Befide the matter of light or fire, which continually t7
:flows in~o it from the heavenly bodies, and probably the mllgnetic efHuvia
of the earth, whatever fire can volatilize, is found in the air. Hence the
·whole foffiLkingdom muft bc.found in it; for all of that tribe, as faits,
.fulphurs, ftones, and metals, are convertible into ~ume, and thus c•pablc •
of being rendered part of the air. Gold itfe)f, the moft fUed of all na-
tu.ral bodies, is found to adhere clofe to the fulphur in mines ; and thus to
·be,raifed along with it. Sulphurs alfo make a confiderable ingredient of
:the air, on account of the many. •olcanoes, grottos, caverns, and other
..fpiracles, chiefly affording that mineral, dif~erfcd through the globe. All
parts of the animal kingdom muft alfo be m the air; tor, befide the co..
pious effluvia continually emitt~ from their bodies, by the.vital heat, in
the ordina~y . procefs of pcrfpiration, by means of which an animal, .in·thc
·courfe of its duration, 1mpregnates the air with many times the quantity
Q( itJ own bo~y; we find that any animal wbco dead, being cxpofed t<~
· -tkc air, ie.in ~-ecrtain .time whol!y incotpQm.cd .with it. This fad is
.proved ·
Digitized by Coogle
•
Ti!E i .SW YOR?
PUBLIC :..IBfU. :1Y
ASTOR., LENOX AND
T: i..Dl::N F Ci: N.:OA;IVi •
R 19iU L
'
Digitized by Coogle
OF ASTRO.LOGY. 6i
•provect'in a Yery ftriking manner, by an extraordinary efFect produced by
thofe dead bodie~ aftor they became filled with air, which were Dnfor-
tunately drowned in 'the Royal George at Spithead, on the 29th of
Auguft, 178~. This lhip was heled on her fide for the purpofc of
lome repair, when the water rufhed .into her lower port-holes, and funk
'her almoft inftantaneoully. She went down jn fourteen fathom water,
and fell upon her tide.. ae mas evident from her top-inafi:s, which remain-
ed above the water in an inclined direction. A confiderable·time after
:this fatal accident, lhe fuddenly right~, and her mafts becaane nearly
perpendicalar. Noone couldaccountfor this extraordinary circumftance.
till an anonymous writer publithed the following ingenious and correCt
J"olution of.it:-" By the muller-roll of this unfortunate ihip, it appears
that 495 fouls pe.rilhed between her decks .; and, as the bodies had no .
.way to efcape, they of courfe remained in that fituation. Now all bodies
·in a.ftate of putrefatlion ferment, and this fermentation generates large
,quantities crt air, fo that 1 putrifying carcafe, inflated by the generation
ofair, expands itfelf to a tizefar exceeding its original bulk, and becomes
lighter than water in a very high degree; and will confequently be prefi'ed
upwards towards thefurfacc with 1 powerequal to the weight of a quantity
of water adequate in bulk to the inflated carcafe; and would rife ilun\C-
dia.tely to the furface in a perpendicular line, if not obftrueted in .its paf-
fage. NO'W it is obvious that the 495 ~rcafes, whicb Jay between the
decks until fermentation and putrefaCtion commenced, would rife as foon
as the generated ai.r rendered them fpecifically lighter than fea-water : and,
as fermentation increafed their bulk, they would, by their expanfion, re-
move a quantity of water from between the deck11, on tbe loweft fide .
of
the Chip (to which by their gra•ity they would naturally .incline when
their breath firft left them),equal to their encreafed bulk; and, being then
aBed upon by the upward preffure of the water, would exert againft ·the
under,;.part of the decks, immediately over them, a power likewjfe equal
to fuch weight of water as equals their increa(ed bulk. The heavieft tide
()f the fhip, being thus 6rft lightened by the difplacing fo large a quan-
.tity of water, and exchanging it for air ; and then aCted upon by the
preflbre of the water upwards againft the under fide of the inflated carca-
fes, .lifting hard againll the decks on or beneath the center of the tbip .;
and farther by the preff.ure of the water upwards, againtl the underfide of
the bulls, m1fts, &c. together with the counterpoifc of a large weight
of water bet~n decks, on the higbt:ft fide, would caufe her to be.near- '
Jy.incquilibrio_
; andconfequently, the firft ftrong tide (as was the cafe)
.would fWing her on her keel, and right her.''
As to vegetables, none ofthat clafs can be wanting in the contribution Qf
.their effiuviato.the commonait, fince we know that all v~gctables, by pu..
.trefaaion~ beco~e: voJatile·
. The affociations, fcparatioas, attritions, dif-
.!olutions, and other operations, of one fort of matter upon another, may
· · · iike\\ i1e
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
Jikewife be confidered as fources of num~rous other neutral at' a.n~nymo us
bodies, unknown to the moll: inquifitive naturalift. Thus. air i&-· one of
!he moft confid~rable a;'ld oniverfal agents i~ all nature,. being concerned
tn the prefervat1on of hfe, and the producbon of moll: of the phenomena
relating to thts world. Its pr~p~rties and cfreas, iocludinga gr~at .part of
the refearches and difcoverjes of the moder¢ phi.lofopher$,· have~ in a con~
fiderable degree been reduced to precifc laws an4<k.m.onArations; in which
form they make'a very extenfive and impo~ant branch·of the mixed ma-
thematics, called Pneumatics ; for a more perfect knowledge of which,
I beg leave to recommend the curious reader to Dr. Prieftley's invaluable
Experiments and Obfervations on different kind~ of air. But I iliall julli
obferve further, that to the pre1fure of air we are to attribute the cohe-
rence of the parts of bodies. Breathing too., on which ·depends animaL
life, is owing to the prdfure and fpring of the air; and to- the fame
cJufe may be attributed the produttion of fire and flame, as appears fro!ll
the fudden exti ndion of fire when deprived of air. It is ,li.ke~ife necef-
1ary for the exiflence and propagation of founds, for tbe germination and
growth of plants, for conveying aU the v~riety of fmells,. and ·for re-
. ceiving and traAfmitting the rays and influence~ of the celeftial world tG
the terreftiaJ. Air aCts upon all bodies by its common properties of
weight and elafticity,.and by the peculiar virtues of the ingredients. where-
of it is compofed. Thc:fe properties ~f weight and elafticity in the air,
when engendered in large quantities in the bowels of the earth, and
heated by the fubterranean fire, occafion earthquakes, and other vehe..
ment commotions of nature. · An.d by fome late experim~nts of M. de la.
Hire, it is found that a certain quantity of condenfed air, if heated to a
degree equal to that of boiling water, would pr<:>duce an explofion fufli-
cient to tear afunder the folid globe. By means of a corroding acid, air
diffolves iron and copper, unlt:Cs well dc:fended by oil ; even gold in the
chemi!l:'s laboratory, when the air is impregnated with theeffiuvia ofaqua
regia, contrads a ruft like other bodies. lt fixes volatile bodies, and vo-
·}atilizes thofe which are fixed. From the different effiuvice diffufed
through the air proceed a variety of effects. Near miq~$ of copper, it
will difcolour filver and brafs ; and in L()ndon, where the air abounds
with acid and corrcfiveparticles,· mctalline utenfils ruft much .fooner tQan
jn the country. . Stones alfo undergo the changes incident to metals.
Thus Purbeck ftone, of which Saliibury cathedral ~s ~uilt,. is obferved.
to become grad~ally fofter, and to moulder away in ~he air; and Mr.
Boyle gives the fame account of Blackington frone.- It is very difficult
to obtain oil of folphur in a clear dry air,. as.its part~ a.re then more ready
to evaporate ; but in a moifr cloudy air it. may be obtained in abundance.
All faits melt moft readily in cloudy weather; and feparations proceed heft
in the fame ftate of the air. If pure wine becarried into a plac~ 'where the
air is full of the fumes of wine then fermenting, it wil~ begin to ferment
a-frdh. The wliolefomenefs and unwholefomenefs of air is certainly
2 owing
Digitized by Coogle
0 F I A siT. R OJ L 0: G Y.
ewiDg to tbe·clliletent eftluyia with which it abounds. The beft air ia to.
be found in open champaign coontriea, where the foil is dry, and fpon•
taoeoofiy. produces wild thyme, wild marjoram, and the like fweet-
fcented plants.. The morning air ia morerefretbing than that of the even-
ing, and air agitated with breezes than · that which ia krene and ftill.
As good ait colltribntes Jfeatly: to health, fo that which is bad or in-
fcBious is no kfs·prcjucbcial to it, as is evideat in contagious difeafes,.
plagues, murrains, and other mortalities, which an: fpread by an infeCted
air. . But this infetlcd air may be corrected, and the body preferved uom
its fatal dftd:t. by the alluvia of aromatic and 1\rong-fcented herbs and-
Sowe.is. From obG:rvatioos on blCc:ding in rheamatifma, and after tak-
ing.c:old, it:is CYidcot the air can· enter with all its qualities, and vitiate
the whole texture of the blood, and other juices. From palfiea, verti-
goes, and other nervous affections, caufed by damps, mines, &c. it is.
CYident lbat air thus qualified,. can relax and obftrud the whole nervous.
fyftem. And from the cholics, fluxes, coughs, and confomptioos, pro-
dticeds bf damp, moift, acd nitrous, air, it is evident it caa corrupt and
fpoil the noble organs of the whole human ftru·tture. Thus air is an
inftrument ·which natore is univerfally applying in all her works, con-
fequently a inowledge of its properties feems highly ncceifary not only
to the chemifr and phyficia.., but to the philofopher and divioe..-For
more on this impoctaot fobjctl ·fee Hales.'s Veget. Stat. ch•.vi. .Sic
lfaac Newloo!s•Optics, ~· 3L~ p. 371, · 372~ ~ft"on's Hift. Nat. Supp.-
vol. i.· M. de Ia Hire, Mem. de l'Acad. An... 1703. f.hil. Tranf. •ot.
l~i. p. 152, &c. Bacon, Nov. Organ. lib.· ii. app. 13. Lavoifier's Phy-
fical and Chemical Effays, vol. i. Black's. E1f. and Obf. Phyf. and Liter..
1101. ii~ Chamb. Cyclop. new Edit. Art. Air. And Prieftley on Air•
.. •( : ,. .
W-ater,. the ·third active element, is the meaftruum of the world, &nG
is o£ tw~ kioes;. ·firft~ Pure \\fatcr• .which is a limpid and colournefa }i.,
quor, without fmell or tafte, fimple and voJatik, and is peculiar to the.
celcftial regions. Secondly, Ga:ofs Water, whiC;h is·a pellucid .fluid, con-
-.ettible into ·ic:e by.cold, naturally pervading tbc 1lnta· of the earth., ·and
11owing on· its furfaeey and .with the body of the earth conlbitutes tho;
tcmiqueo.uk globe.; The fi!Ul'IC of the com~Dalt parts of water appean
to be finooth and fpherical, like tbofe of quckfilver ;~ whenec it bcc001ea
c.xtremely moveable and penetrating. Thus it readily enters the pores of
wood, leather, fltint, chords, and mu&al ftirmga, and is capable of
moving au agitating:.particles of mat= h:fa atlive than itfclf; and fo.
pro.-cu the more immediate pbyfical agent o£ fermentation, putrefution..
folution• aod the ~ike.; and thus it alfo conVCJf earthy aad faline mauer
through .filtr.cs of paper, ftone, &e. and even; raifes fome proportion of
them in diftillations. Its particles appear to be extremely minute, and
fo have a large ihare of ·furface. Hence water is admirably fitted for a
No. 3· M folvent,
Digitized by Coogle
A N ILL U S T R .A T. I 0 N
folvent, or for readily entering the pores of faits, and coming into full
contad with all their particles; and thus it will pafs where air cannot, 011
account of its-moifture, or lubricating power, whereby-it faftcns muci-
laginous matters, and will therefore ·foke through the clofe p()rcs o'f a
bladder. It penetrates the atmofphere .very copioufiy, by means of the
-
continual diftillations of the ocean and rivers, <
raifcd up by the heat of
the central fun, and draws along with it a warm unaious vapour, which
·Caufes a natural generation of whatever the earth, as a matris, is impreg-
nated with. Water always contains an earthy fubftance, and is found. in
the hardeft bodies, and in the drieft air. It is the proper menll:ruum;
of faits, . and, by the readinefs .with .:which it imbibes the dHFerent
kinds of air, is eatily rendered,. by a lately-difcovued chemicil proccfs, to
po1fe& the fame qualities and virtues of the moft efteemed mineral waters
hitherto difcovered. Water is alfo of infinite ufe in all the works both
-of natUf'e and art, as ·withoat it there could be ao generation, nutri..
tion, or accretion, perfQrmed in any of the animal, vegetable, mine-
ral, marine; or atmofpherical, regions. · The blood could not fiow in the.
-veins, the fap in the vefi"ela of vegetables, nor the particles of minerals.
·Concrete and grow together, without water. It is this.that makes the ·
largcft part of our blood, our drink, and other aliments. There could
be no corruption, fermentation, or diffolutioo, carried on without it; no:
brewiog, no diftilling, no wines, no vinegar, no fpir~ts, made without
it. We aUo meet with wat~r ·under a11 infinite.variety.of forms, and in an
·infinite variety of bodies, as that of air, vapour, clouds, fnow, hail, , ice,
fap, wines, blood, fielh, bone, horn, ·done, and other bodies, through'
aU which it ·feems to pafs unaltered, as aa agent or ioftrument that fuf-
fers no alteratioo by re-aCtion, but remains apab,
le of refuming ·the: form·
·of water again upon any occafton. In ita own common ftate, water ap-
. pears to be a combination of all .the elements together, as co~taining a
.quantity of fire, which keeps it fluid • . a qttantit)i of air, ana a quantity
of euth; whence it it not at all furprifing, th~ water alone, ·as it appears
t-o the fenfes, Lhould fuffice for vegetation in fome cafes, where little
-earth is wanted~ or for fupportiag .nimat and mioeral.lifc, .where no great
degree of nutriment is required, and hence it proves a glue·or.cement to
tOme bodies, a folveot. to others ; thus it confolidatca :br~ck, plaiftet.
of Paris, ftone, bone, anci '-the like; b~t ditro)ves falts, and fubtile earth
approaching to falts, and becomes the inftramental catife of their action.
Water· alfo COD\'eys nourHhmeot or a more fixed and.folid matte.- to the
,parts of vegetables, where haviaa depofitcd it. :the finer fluid perfpirea
into the atmofphere, which giver •• the phyftqal caufc of the dampnefa •nd
_.unwho)c(omcnef-a of woody countries, a:s they remarJc,ably find in America.
F.or all large -vegetables aa after the manner of forcing-pumps, continu•
.aU1 &awing in ltrge quantic.ies of water at their roots, and difcharging
it
Digitized by Coogle
0. F A S T 1l 0 L 0 _G Y.
it at their leaves, which intimates a method of colleaing water in dry
countries, aud likewife of making falt water frelh. It is alfo obferva-
bJe, that water in paffing through plants, after having deponted its more
terreftrial part, does not always go off pure, but impregnated with the
finer effluvia, or more fubtile particles, of the vegetable; thus making an
atmofpbere around every plant according to its nature, odoriferous oro-
therwifc, which fupplies us with a rule for procuring the odoriferous
waters of vegetables by diftillation. Bqt the particJest not fine enough
to go off thus along with the water, ar.
e left behind upon the furfacc of:
the leaves and Bowers of plants, being now thickened or ftrained {rom
their moifter parts, and remaining in the form of honey, manna, gums,
or balfams, according to the nature of the vegetable. And hence we
.deduce the phyfical caufe why plants prove more odorif('rous and fweet
when the air is both warm and moifi, as is the cafe immediatly after a
fummer lbower. Water is likcwife of the utmoft ufe in divers of
the mechanical arts and oei:afions of life; as in the motion of mills,
engines, fountains, aud all other machine& :which aa by the Jawa of
H ydroftatics.-For the furthcc .properties and eifeas of Watcr, fee;.
Defag. Exp. Phil. vol. ii. Cotes't; Hyd. and Pneum. Ledurea. Phil.
Tranf. No. 203,220, 887· Fergufon's LeCtures, 4to. p. 68, &c. Chamb•
.Cydop. Art. Water. Fluids, H1droftatics, &c.
The fout'tb clement, .which it pa.ffive and fixed, is Earth. and confitb
ofa 1imple, dry, and col.d, fubftance; and is an.ingredient in 'the campo~
ution of all natural bod1ca. It muft be obferved, that pure native earth
is a very dift"erent matter.from the earth whereon we tread, and this pure
earth is fuppoc.d to be the 'bafis or fubftratcm of, all bodiu, and that
wherein the other principles refide. It is all that is folid in an animal
or vegetable body, aU the l'Cal vifcular parts, the reft being juices. Thia
earth may be found in and feparated from all animal and vegetable fub.
1lanccs, and is the fame in aU, and it the bafis of all. It remains after
the feparation of the other principles, by chemiftry, from all animal and
vegetable fubftaoces, and neither coheres together, nor fuffers any change
in the fire. The aKayers acknowledge no difference between th~ euth of
animals ·and vegetables, but make their tefts for the niceft ufes equally of
both. · If water be pourcd.upon this earth, it requires fomc: dcgre~ of te-
nacity. fo _as to become capable of being formed into ve1fch; but. if oil
he added, it coheres into a much ftronger and more compact mafs ; hence
it appears thar oil and earttl ar~ the principles wbicb give confiftence and
tenacity to ,plaata. Thitt eil, as well as this carts, feems the.fame in all;
and poifdii:s nothing of the poifoooua or medicinal virtues of the plant,
or whatever it is extraCled from; they being all feparabJe by dccodion,
d.illillation. ud other proceifct of thac kind, and never remain either .in
the
Digitized by Coogle
66 AN ILLUSTRATION
the earth, or in this connecling oil. Long drying will diveft 'plant& of all
their virtues; {o that nothing but thefe pt'ineiples fhall remain in them,.
and thefe, giving folidity and figure, preferve the plant in its form-er ap-
pearance; but, thcfe only remaining,. it, poffeft"cs nono of its virtues..
This pure earth may be pro£urod by dr.awing off tbe fpirit, fulphor;
phlegm, and faits, of wine ; aad what remains will be a taftel'e£&. kcan-
- lefa, dufty, matter, not capable of heing raifed by diftillation,. or diftbfv,.
ed by folution, bat will prefervc $he fame ftate and form even in the fire;
and this is called pure earth, or cap11t W~Wtlllllll! It may a)fo be obtained
pure and unmixed from the common claf-s of vegetables and other bodies,
by letting the remaining mafs, after dil.tillation, ·be thoroughly calcined.
then boiled in feveral watetos to get out all its fait, and after this dried
in ·a clear fire, or in the fun; and tbia dried mafs will be pure earth.
Thus, from the difFerent qualities and operations of the four elements ·
upon one another,- we may obfervc, .that the fire preferves the earth
from being overwhelmed or dettroyed by water; the air prefenes the fire,
that it is nQt extinguithed ; and the water prokrves tl¥: earth, .that it :is
not burnt; but, ifeither of thefe adiv.e elements wero to beeome predo-
minant in a1;1y great degree, the world would be deftroycd J as was the
cafe at the time of the ~luge, by the predominancy of watcr.-For more
on this fubjed, fee Boerhaave's Cbemift. p;trt ii. p. 2 t. Shaw's Ledures,
p. 151, Phil.' Tranf. No. 3; Hill's Hifi:. of Foffils. Linn. Syfi:. Nat.
tom. iii. 1770. Da ~oft.a's Foffilsl p. 1 19, &c. ·Swcd. Mem; 176o.
Of thefe four elements the w&ole tcrrcirial world is compoled, with
all its produCtions and appendages; and over thefe Man hath the do-
minion, as God's vicegerent upoa earth, being compo\l(ded of tbe moft·
perfeCt and noble part of earthly matter, and formed after God's own
image and likenef!. H~nco man i! c~lcd1 the .Micr.ocofm, f~om ,..,-,..,
/ittk, and _,~, 'WfJrld. hc~tally figntfy~ng., tbt ~Nie 'IIIOrld. whrc~: is ap-
plied to Man by way of emmence, as bcmg. an ep1tomc of all that a excel-
lent. and wonqerful in Natu-rt>. If we aMcnt,ively confider the ftructure·
and faculties of man, we lhall- clearly perceive h.i' exi.lbanc:e upon earth,
in a ~harat\er fubordinate to-that- of angelt, is. only intended by. the Deity·
for aftate ~f probation ; and, as this cor.porcat lif~ fuall terminate, either
in aas of piety or prof~nenefs, fo iliall follow. the r~r-ibutiona of an im.
partial and juft Judge, in a future ftate of cverlaftiog duration. Man is
compofed of three diftinct eff'enccs., .S~irit, Soul, and. B.oc!f, as St. Paull
evinces when he fays, Ltt ysur Sptn .,, "&U/i;"and BotiMs, 6t lept 6/alllt-
ltfi at the coming of tbt·Lord J!fos Cllrf/J. And thefe.threc e6."ences aro
co~R~tytded· of the thrcc-left"er wor~:~'!e Soul of Man is formed of the·
~ilict~world ; t~ Spirit, of the . ~ ~orld.;. and the Body, of the
.elementary world. H·ence arc deducablc the anftuencea of the fun, moon,
and
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T It 0 L 0 G Y•
.an~ ftars, upon Man's body, becaufe he hath a microcofmical fun, moon,
and ftars, within him(elf, that bear ~ fympathy with the celeftial bodies~
and in the centre ofw:hiclt lhines the divine Spirit. For the fenfual, ce-
ldl:ial, part of man, is that whereby we move~ fee, feel, tafle, and fmell,
.and have a commerce with all material objed:s ; and through thefc the
influences of the divine Nature are conveyed to the more refined and
{enfible organs. This celeftiel fpirit aHuates and influences the elemen-
tary dfence, aod flirs it up to the propagation ofits like, and to every other
purpofe for which Nature defigned it. And this fpirit is evt-n difcoverab!e
in herbs and ftowers, which open when -the fun rifes, and clofe when he
fets ; which motion is produced by the fpirit being fenfible of theapproach
and departure of the fun's influence. Next to thefe, in Man, fuines that
.pure, etherial, angelic part, called the rational foul; which is a divine
.light or fiream Bowing immediately from the Great Creator, uniting .
.Man with God, and raifing him above all other parts of animated na-
ture. This Soul, when once it enters the body, runs parallel ·with
eternity ; ~nd joins in with the celeftial fpirit, through the fphere of the
planets; and is conduCted by a divine genius, to an hypoftatical union
with the elementaty body ; fo that there exill: two active principles in
the body of man to one paffive J and, as the Superior Rules in the celef~
ti~l world are fituated at the time of man's nativity, fo will his conll:i-
t'Ution and difpofition be framed. And here we derive the caufe of all
thofeaftonithing variations of temper, difpofition, andconftitution, which
are.JlOl only peculiar to different fubjeCls, but even to one and the fame
perfon ; for every o·ne will bear teftimony of this fact, th'at we find our-
.{elves fometimes chearful, and at other times melancholy; to-day in perfect
·health, and .to-lllPJrow in pain and angui!h; this hour compofed, affa-
_
ble, and compltlllht, and the next auftere, petulant, and peremptory;
and thefe contrarieties are evidently produced by the continual refiftance
and oppofition of the four elements in man's body, which alternately dif- .
.pofe him tq the various affeCtions difcoverable in human nature. The
.caufe of this is induced from the natural enmity of the elementary mat-
.ter.- viz. heat and cold, and drinefs and moifture; each of which occa-
_fionally predominates in. man's body, according to the motion and infiu-
.cnce of thofe heaven}y bodies_
, that rule, govern, and modify, the operation
.of the four elements, in and upon every terreftrial fubfiance.- Thus it is
evident, that the underftanding and intelleCtual faculties of Man are form-
ed of the ethereal world; the fenfitive powers of life and aCtion are derived
-from the celeftial world; and the grofs and corruptible part, the fiefirand
blood, confifts of the elementary world ; which are all fubordinate the
·one to th~ other. Under this idea of the workmanfbip and conftruHion
of Man, Job exclaimed, that. he was jeatjillly 11nd wondetjully made; in
.-itt poff'effing the thr~e-fold effences of fpirit, ~- and b!dJ.· '
, No. 3• . . N Sceptical
Digitized by Coogle
68 A N· · I t, L: U S;T· R A T ~I ·0 N
·. S·ceptioal and atbe-iftical writtrs, indeed, have attempted too'ferttirft tbil'
.fyftoem of nature in the conft!"\Jd:ion ·of man-, by deRying the immortality
of the foal7 and a future diftribution of rewartls and punilhments; con:..
fending that the foul is an indivifiMe part of the body, attd hM its ditTo-
lotion in the common courfe of morta-lity. But thefe tenets are fo·ex-
tremely abfurd, fo vague, an·d fo de1Htute of evidence, that ·the rational
mind is at o. lofs to conceive how fuch a:n inconfiftent doctrine coald hav.e
~been ·broached; for, the fame philofophical t"aafoning, thatenables us
to define the ~rature and eziftence of ·the body, will likewife prove the
nature .and ·exHience of the foul. It is only from the primary'Or eKential
'qUalities of body, its extenfion, and folidity, th~t we form any idea of
it; and why may we ne>t form the complex idea of a foul or fpirit, frGill
the operations of thinking, underftanding, willing, and the like, which
are experiments in ourfelves ? This idea of an immaterial fubftance is as
clear as that we .have of a -material one ; for, though the notion of imma.
terial fubftances may be attended with difficulties, we have no more
reafon to deny or doubt of its truth, than we have to deny <>~" doubt
10f the cxiftence of the body. That the foul is an immaterial fub-
ftancc, a.ppears from hence-that the primary operations of willing and
tthinking are not only unconnetl:ed with the known properties of body,
-but (~m ·plainly inconfiftent with fome of its moft effcntial qualities•
.For :the mind not only difco\'ers no relation between thinking and the
·moti0n and.arrangement of parts; but it' Jikewife perceives, ·thatconciouf-
.nefs, a fimple ad:, can never proceed from a compounded {ubftanca. c~
pablc of being •divided into many parts. To iJluftrate this, let us onty
fupJ>Ofe a fyfi:em of matter endowed with thought; then, either a11 the
_pai'lts of which this fyftem :
confifis muft think, wllifh would make it
not ·one, but a multitude of d~iftinct confc-ious beings.tits power of
thinlk.;ing muft arife from the con-neCtion f>f the parts one with an0ther,
their motion, and difpo·fition, which, all taken together, contribute to the
-produCtion ·of rhought. But it is evident, that the motion of parts, -
and
d:Je ·manner ·of combilling ·them,- can produce nothing but an artful fi:ru<.-. .
ture, ~nd various modes of -motion. Hence all machines, ho,vever aruul-
ly ·their parts a:re put toge•her, and however complicated their ftruc-
·ture, though we·conceive innamerable dii"erent motions, varioufly com-
·bined, and running one into another with en endlefs variety, yet ne..
ver produce any thing bu-t figure·and motion. If a clock, or watch, :tells
the hour and 1
minute,of the day, ·it is only by the metion of the ·ditfferent
!hands, pointing fugcofiivmy :at tbe different· figures marked upon the
Oial.plate for that purpofe. We -never imagine this to be the 'eWea. .of
'hOOght or ·intelligence, :nor conceive it poffil>le, by any refinement of
'rooure, fo ·to impro¥e ·the~ampofi.tion, as 1hat it dlall be-eom,e -ca-pable
of k.uowJcdge -and ~ookiou.fnefs '; -and the re'afon is pleia\ly this, that-
. dsought
'
Digitized by Coogle
. . . .
thought being fomethin~ altogether dHfere~t from motion and fi·gure,
without the Jeaft connecbon between them, 1t can never· be (uppof~d to.
refult from them. . This th~n being evident~ that intelligence C:Jrn.not
arife from an union or combination of unintelligent parts; if we fuppofe
it to belong to any fyftem of matter, we mufi neceff~rily a~tribute it to
all the parts of which that fyftem is compofed; whereby, inftead ~f orJe,
we lhall, as was before obferved, have a multitude of ditlinct confcious
beings. And becaufe m:ltter, how far foever we pu.rfue the minutenef.
of its parts, is ftili capable of repeated .divifions, even to infi.rlity, i.t it·
plain that this abfordi'ty wiU folk>w us through aU the fuppofitioos thal
make thought inherent in a maretja1 fubftance. Wherefore, aa confci- .
oufnefs is incompatible wtth the cohefion of folid feparable _parts, we arc·
nece1farily 1ed to place it in fame Dther fu1>fi.ance of dillinCl Nat-u~e and·
Properties-and this fubftance we call Spirit, which is altogether dilt.inct
from body, nay, and commonly pl_;lced in oppofition to it ; for which ·
· reafon, the being$· of this clafs are illled immaterial ; a word that im-
plies nothin·g of their true nature, but merely denotes its contrariety tO'
that of matter, or material fubftances.
As to the immortality of:the human foul, the arguments- to prove it
may be reduced to the foHowriog heads ; firll, The nature <>f the foul it-
felf, its defires, fenfe of moral good and evil, and gradaal increafe of
· k-nowledge-and perfe&ion; and feco-ndly, The moral attributes of God.
Under the forme-r of thefe confidera·tions, i-t is apparent rhat the foul, be.
ing an immaterial intelligent fubftance, as has been already ·proved, does-
not depend u-pon the body for its exiftence J and -therefore may, and ab-
foJutely muft, ~xifi after the body, unlefs annihilated by the fame power
which gave it a ·being at firft, which is not to be fappdfed, fince there arc
no ·inftances of annihi-lation in nature. This argument, efpecially if the
infinite capacity of the foul, its firong defire after immortality, its ra-
tional activity and advancement towards perfection, be likc:w-tfe confidered,
will ·appear perfectly cooclufive to .men of a philofophical turn ; becaufe
nature, or rathe£ the God of nature, does nothing in vain. But argu..
meots drawn from the moral attributes of the Deity are not only better
adapted to -convince men unacquarnted.with wbftraa reafoning, butequally
certain and conclufive with the former,; .for, as the juftice of God can
never fuffer the wiCked to efca-pe Utl'punilhed, nor the good to remain
ilways unrewarded ; therefore argtrments dra-wn from the manrfeft and
continual profperity of the.wicked, and the firequent misfortunes and un-·
happinefs of good and virtuous meu in this ~Jife, muft. cGmvince ever1
thinking perfon, -mat .fbere it a 1futm-e ·1bte wherein all·will be Jet right,
and God·s·attribuws o-f w-ifdom, goodnefs, and jufiice, 'fulJy v.indicaced.
Had the religious·and confcieutiens par·t of mank.,.d no ·hopes-ef·a future
ftate,·"thcy would be of all men the moll miferable; but, as this is abfo-
lutely
'oigitiZE?d byGoogle
A N I L L U S·. T. R A T I '. 0 N
Jotely inconfiftent with the moral charaeterer of the Deity, the certainty
·.pf fuch a ftate is clear to a demonftration.
Thus far we have cpnfidered the elementary world, whichis the lowell:
1n dignity; and man, the chief fubjea thereof. The cc:lc:ftjal world,
·which is next in eminence, is. confiituted of a body natu,ral, mofi timple,
fpherica1, clear, fluid, and moving confiandy ina circle, and this by virtu~
of an innate. power always within itfelf • comprehendibg and containing
~~e.fun, moop, 'planets, and llars, fixed in'dillinCl: orbs by the gr~at Ar7
.chitea of Nature, and bearing fympathy with aJI terreftrial fubfiances, as
being formed out of the fame chaotic mafs at the beginning of the world.
This celefi:ial heaven is what Mofes callsda.kzgn, the firmament, which was
·the work of the fecond day's creation, and -lit,
erU.ly lignifies an expanfl or
tltte'!fion; a term very well adapted by th.e-' pr<ipheft~ the impreffion
which the heavens make on our fenCes i whence in other parts of the
Scriptures. the heaven i~ compared t_o·a curtain, or a tent firetched out to
dwell in. Through the medium of this celeftial world, and the. heavenly
bodies therein contained, the fupreme Being rules, governs, and actuates,
the elementary world ; and this is apparent, becaufe that thing which we
term obe~ience is only to be found in elementary bodies. And fince mo-
tion is the caufe of all mutation and change, and as all mo~ion originates
with the heavenly bodies, by the revolutions of which even Time itfelf
is meafured out and divided, fo we find thefe celefi:ial influences prodl:lce
all the variations of heat and cold, drinefs and moifture, generation and
corruption, increafe and decreafe, life and death, and all the. viciflitudes
pf natnre, without even vary'ing themfelves, or being fubjeCl: to the Jeaft
change or alteratjon; whilll the elementary bodi,es are perpetually chang-
ing, and never continue in one fray. Hence it is apparent that thecelef-
tial bodies are a8ive, and the elem~ntary paffive; fo that the celeftial bo-
dies give the form and fiamp to all the productions of nature, and the ele-
mentary bodies fubminifier matter to receive this form. And as the pofi-
tions and affecti-ons of the-heavenly afpects are whc;n this form or framp
is giYen., and as the quality of the elementary matter 1ha11 be when fubmi-
niftered, fo will the nature and quality of the fubjeCJ: be, -that receives this
celeftial form or ftamp. Aod, were it not for this active and paffive prin-
cip_]e, then would all elementary things be alike, without a poflibility of
exifiing. It is, therefore, a perfeCl: knowledge of this mediate or celef-
tial world, its various affections and difpofitions, the nature, tendency,
and effect, of the luminaries, their motions, afpeds, and pofitions, which -
enable us to judge of future contingencies, and to difcover the fecret and
.abftrufe 9perations of nature. · But, to attain this knowledge in any com-
petent degree, we muft trace thefe heavenly intelJieencers through,eut_thc
wh.ole celeftial· regions, and acquaint ourfdves with their general and
. - e1fential
,'Ju,.IJ,.-,,~lf) m-f' .
Digitized by Coogle
·
,. ·o F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.'.
dentiat qualitie~. I thall for this purpofe, after treating of the ethereal
world, make this {peculation a leading clue t9 the art of calculating
ftativities. ·
The ethereal world, which is the fuperior, and the higheft in dignity,
i1 that which the infpired writers, .and the ancient philofophers, called.
the Empyrean Heaven, and is conceived to be the abode of Gad, and blef- ·
fed fpirits, of angels, and the fouls of the righteous departed; wherein.
the Deity is pleafed to afford a nearer and more immediate view ofhimfelf, .
a more fenfible manifeftation of his glory, and a more adequate percep-
tion of his attributes, than in the other parts of the univerfe, where he.
is likewife prefent. But the moft exalted conceptions we can poffibly.
form· of this blifsful abode, are extremely inadequate and imperfeCt • nor
is it in the power of the moft enlarged underftanding to frame fuitablc.
ideas of the Godhead, or of the angelic'hoft that perpetually furround his
throne. As much, however, as the human comprehenfion is ab)e to con-
tain, the Almighty has been gracioufly pleafed to reveal to us in the Scrip-
tures, by the infpired writers, particularly lfaiah, Ezekiel, and St. John
the Divine, who have given us very magnificent defcriptions of the hea-
venly manfipns, their ftruClure, apparatus, and angelic attendance. From
~is divine Revelation the Hebrew writers, and other )earned men, have
defcribed the Harmony of the Univerfe, and the nece1fary fubordination
and dependence of one thing upon another, from the interior heaven to
the remoteft corner of the earth. We fuall therefore prefume to (ollow
tbefe authors in fpeaking of God and-his angels; and whoever {ufficiently
contemplates the fubject wHl be fecure againft the impious doCtrines of
· Atheifts, of Free·thinkers, of immoral and irreligious men.
God is an immaterial, intelligent, and free, Being; of perfell good-
nefs, wifdom, and p.ower; who made the u.niverfe, and continues to fup-
port it, as well as to govern and direct it by his providence. By his im•
materiality, intelligence, and freedom, God is diftinguifued, from fate~
nature, deftiny, neceffity, chance,. and from all other imaginary beings.
In fcripture, God is defined by, I am that I am; Alpha and Omega; the
beginning and end .of all things. Among philofophers, he is defined a
Being of infinite perfeCtion; or in whom there is no defect of any thing
which we conceive might raife, improve, or exalt, his n~ture. Among
men, he is chiefly confidered as the firft caufe, the firft Being, who has
exified from the · beginning, has ·created the world, or who fubfifts
nece1farily, or of himfelf; and this knowledge of God, his nature,
atttibutes, word, . and works, with the relations between him and
his creatures, make the extenfive fubject of Theology, the 6ftcr:
fcience of A.ftrology.
. No. 4• · . 0 iir
Digitized by Coogle
.,a A N I. L .L U S T R. A T , I 0 N
Sir lfaac: Newton conlicle'rs and'defines God~ not as is uf~li1..S0ne, fro-It'
his perfellion, his nature, cxiftence, or the like; but from his-d~iaion.
The word Go~, according to him, is a relat~ve term, and has a r~gard ~
_fervants; it is true it deaptes,a Being eternal, infinite, and abfolutely pcr-
fea J b1H a Bei~tg, however eter·nal, in6aitt:, and abfohuely perfett, wi~h­
out dom_
inion, woald not _
be God. The fame author obferves, that th•
wotd G«Xi frequently fignifies Lorch btJt.cYety lord i& not God; it is the
dominion of a fpiritual being, ot lord, that conftitutes God; true dorrti-
nion, true God; fupreme, the fupreme; feigned, the falfe god. From
fvch true dominion it follows,. that the true God is living, int·elligen~­
and powerful; and from his other perfections, that he is fupremc, or
!upremely perfect: he is eternal, and infinite; omnipotent.. and omnifci-
ent; that is, he endures from eternity to eternity, and is prefent from
infinity to innnity. He governs all thittgs that exifi, and knows all things
that are to be known; he is not eternity, nor infinity, but eternal, and
infinite; he is not duration or fpace, but he endures, and is prefent; he
endures always, and is prefcnt every where; and, by exifting always, and
every where, he conftitutes the very thing, duration and fpace, eternity
and infinity. He is omniprefent, not only virtuaUy,. but alfo fuhftanti-
ally; for power without fubftan~e cannot fubflft. All things are contain-
ed, and mo•e in him, but withovt any m'utual paffion; he (uft"ers nothing
from the ,motions of bodies; nor do they undergo any refiftance from hia
emniprefence. It is copfe1fed ·that God exi1b neceffarily;. and- by the
·fame neceffity he exifis always~ and every where.. Hen~e, alfo,.. he mull
be perfealy fimHar;. all eye, all eat, all brain, all arm. all the power of
perceiving,. underftanding, and ad:ing;. but after a manner oot at all ~or-.
poreal, after a manner not like that ofmen, after a manner wholly to us
unknown. He is deftitute of all body, and all bodily fuape;. and there.
f.ore cannot be feen, heard, or touched; not ought to be wodhipped un-
tler the reprefentatioa of any thing corporeal. We hal'C ideas of the at-
tributes of God, but do not know the fubftance even of any thing ; we
fee only the figures- and colouts of bodies-, bear only founds, teuch cmlf
1he outward furfac:es,. fmell .only odours, and tafte.tafies; but do'not, can.
Dot, by any fenfe, or -any reflex act, know their mward fubftan~es ~ and
·much lefs can we have any notion of the fubiance of God. We kriow
him by his properties and attributet; by the moft wife and excellent
ftrudurc of things, and by final caufcs;. but we adore a~d wodhip him
cmly on account of his dominion"- for God, fetting afide dominion~ ptQ- -
:. Yidcn~e, uu1 final caufes~ ia nothing elfc but .fate and • natuJc. ,
The admir.ablc metaphyfic:ian asd divine, Dr. Clarke, hu demonftra~ed
tu bciDg ofa_ God, with that clcarnefa and force of rcafoniDg fgr which
~ See NcwtoR'& fhilof. Nat. Princi_p, Mash. iA calce.
j& Jle
Digitized by Coogle
. 0 P A s·T It" 0 L 0 G Y~
Jie it fO eminentlydHlinguUhed; by a (cries of propofitions, ~utually con-
neCted and dependent, aad forming a complete and unanfwerable arga-·
ment in proof of the attributes of the Deity. Something, be.fays~ hu·
cxifted from all eternity; for,_fince fometbiog now is, fomething alway•·
was : otberwife the things that now are muft have been produced out oi·
nothing, abfolutely and without caufe.,_ whiob is a plain consradiCl:ion ill
terms. There muft have exified from all eternity fame-one unchangeable
and independent Being; or elfe, there has been an infinite fucceffioll' of'
changeable and dependent beings, produced one from another in an endlefs~
progrcffion, without any original caufe at aU. For without, this feriea of.·
beings can have no caufe of its e~fi:ence, becaufe iS im:lude9 all things tbaer
'are or ever were in the univerfe; nor is any one/!,eing in thfs in6.nite fuc...-
.:effion felf-exiftent or necefiary, and therefore it can have no reafon of it,..
exH\ence within itfelf; and it was equally poffible, that from·eternitr
there fuould never have exHl:ed any thing at all, as that a {ucceffion of fuch~
beings fhouldhavc txifted from eternity. Confequently their exiftence
i• determined by nothing; neither by any neceffity in their own nature,.
bccaufe hone of them are felf-exiftent; nor by any other being,. becau!c.
no other is fuppofed to exift.-That unchangeable and independent Being,.
which bas e.xifted from eternity, without any external caufe of its exift-
ence, mufi: be felf-exiftent J it muft exift by an abfolute neceffity origi.-
aally in the nature of the thing itfelf, and antecedent in the natural order'
of our ideas to our fuppofition of its being. For whatever exifta,. muft:·
either come into being without a caufe; or it. muft have been produced.
by k>me external caufe ~ or it mufi: be felf-exiftent: but the two former ·
fuppofitions are contrary to the two firfi: propofitions. From this lafti
propofition it follows, that the only true idea of afeJf-exiflent or necef-
farily exHling being, is the idea of a being, the fuppofition of·whofe non-
exiftence is an e.xprefs contradiCtion; and this idea is that of a· moft. fimplc·
being~ abfolmely eternal and infinite, original ~d independent.- It fol--
lows alfo, that nothing ia fo ~ertain as the exiftence of a fnprcme inde--
pendent .fe; and likewife, that the material world cannot poffi·bly be:
the fitft and original being, uncreated, independent, and of itfclf eternal;.
becaufe it does not exift by an abfolute neceffity in its-own nature,..fo a&
that it muft be an exprefs contradiCtion to fuppofe it not to e)fift~ WiU.·
refped: bo.
th to its form and matter, the material world may.be concei¥ectl
not to be, or to be in any refped: diff'-erent from what it is without a con-
tradiction. The ·fubftance or effence of the fclf-cxiftent being is- abfo- ·
lutcly incomprchenfible by us; neverthelefs, many of the e1Tential att.ri-· ·
butes of his nature are ftriBJy demonftrable, as well as his exiftence.-··
The felf-exiftent being, having no caufe of its cx.iftence but the abfolutc..
aeceffity ofits own nature, muft of neceffity have exifted from everlat\-
ing, without beginning; and muft ofneceffity exift toeverlaftin~ without :
end.-The fclf.exiicnt being muft of nec;:efiity be iafinite-and .omnipre- ·
fonr;
•
Dig-itized by Coogle
A N ~1 L L U s T R A T t 0 N .
{cnt. Such a being muft be every where, as well as always ana:lterably'
the fame. It follows from hence, that the felf-exiftent being muft be a·
:mofi:. fi'mple, unchangeable, incorrup-tible, being, without parts,·figure.
motion, di-vifibility, and other properties of matter. which are utterly in· .
..confl.ftent·with complete infinity. The fe)f.exiftent being mufi of necef;.~
,uty be but one; becaufe in abfolote neceffity there can be no difference
or .diverfity of exiO:ence; and, therefore, it is abfolutely impoffible, that:
there lhould be two independent felf.exiftent principles, fuch as God and
matter........The felf-exifient and original caufe of all things muft be an in- ·
. <telligent being. This propofition cannot be demonftrated ftrialy and
w ~ ' properly.6 riori; but; atoflet:,.io_ri, the world affords undeniable argu-.
~~ ments to prove t at all tfimg's"'ar'e the effeas ofan intelligent and know.
-
~ -zv-- iog caufe. The caufe muft be always more excellent than the etfed:; ancf,
-
therefore, from the various kinds of powers and degrees of excellence and
-
perfection, which vifible objeCts potfcfs; from the intelligence of created
beings, which is a real difiinct quality or perfeCtion, and not a mere ef-
feCt or compofition of uninteJligent figure and motion; from the variety,
.order, beauty, wonderful contrivance, and fitnefs, of all things to their
.proper and refpective ends; and from the' original of motion, the felf-
.exifient creating being is dem~nftrated to be intelligent. The felf-exifti·
.~nt and original caufe of all things is not a nece1fary agent, but a b~ing en-
dued .with liberty and choice. , Liberty is a nece1fary coofequent of intel-
ligence.; without liberty, no being can be faid to be an agent, or caufe of
.any thing; fince to aH necdfarily, is really and properly not to ad: at all,
_but to be aCted upon. Betides, if the fupreme caufe be not endued with
. IJ_
bertf, it will follow, that nothing which is not could poffibly have
been; that nothing which is,.could poffibly not have been; and that no
mode or circumftance of the exillence of any thing could poffibly have
lleen in any refpetl otherwife than what it now atl:ually is. Farther, if
there be any final caufe i1t the univerfe, the fupreme caufe is .a free agent;
.and, on the contrary fup.po6tion, it is impoffible that any effeCt 1hould be
finite; and in every effeCt there muft have been a progreffion ~ caufes in
.itifinitum, without any original.caufe at all.-The felf-exi~ent being, the
fupr.
eme caufe of all things, muil: of neceffity have infinite power; fince all
.things wer.e made by him, and are entirely dependent'upon him; and all
tlu: powers of all things are derived from him, and perfeRly fubjea to
him; nothing can refill: the execution of his will.-The fupreme caufe
and author of all things muft of neceffity be infinitely wife. This fol-
lows from .the_propofitions already eftablilhed; and the proof apqfltriori,
of the infinite wifdom of God, from the confideration of the exquifite
perfection and confummate excellency of his works, is no lefs ftrong and
undeniable.-The fupreme caufe and author of all things muft of necef...
uty be a being of infinite goodnefs, jufiice, and truth, and all other moral
perfeCtions,; futh as become the !upreme governor and judge ~f the
world.
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 7S
world. The will of a being, infinitely knowing and wife, independent and
all-powerful, can never be influenced by any wrong affection, and can ne-
ver be mifled or oppofed from without; and, therefore, he muft do. al-
way,s what we know fitteft to be done; that is, he muft _act always ac·
cording to the ftritl:eil rules of infinite goodnefs, juftice, and truth, .and
all other moral perfeCtions; and more particularly, being infinitely and
neceffarily happy and all-fufficient, he mufi be unalterably difpofed to do
and to communicate good or •happinefs.
To this more abftrufe argument apriQri, for the exiftence of God, we
may add another, more generally obvious, and carrying irrefiftible con-
viction, which is deduced from· the frame of the world, and from the
traces of evident contrivance and fitnefs of things foe one another that
occur through all the parts of it. Thefe confpire to prove, that the ma-
terial worlel, which in its nature is originated and dependent, could not
have been the effetl: of chance or neceffity, but of intelJigence and defign.
The beautiful, harmonious, and beneficial, arrangement ofthe various bo-
dies that compofe the material !yftem; their mutual dependence and fub-
ferviency ; the regularity of their motions, and the. aptitude of thefe mo-
tions for producing the moft beneficial etfed:s ; and many other pheno-
mena refulting from their relation, magnitude, fituation, and ufe, afford.
unqueftionable evidences of the creating power and wife difpofal of an in-
telligent and almighty agent. The power of gravity, by which the ce-
leftial bodies perfevere in their revolutions, deferves our particular confi•
deration. This power penetrates to the centres of the fun and planets,
without any diminution of its virtue, and is extended to immenfe dif-
tances, regularly decreafing, and producing the moft fenfible and impor-
tant effects. Its aEtion is proportional to the quant-ity of foJid matter in
bodies, and not to their furfaccs_. as is ufual irwomechanical caufes; and,
therefore, feems to furpafs mere mechanifm. But however various the
phenomeWl that depend on this power, and may be explained by it, no
mechanical principles can account for its etfd:ts; much le(s could it have
produced, at the beginning, the regular fituation of the orbs, and the pre-
lent difpofition of things. Gravity could no' havedetermined the planets ,
to move from weft to eaft, in orbits nearly Qir.~.~lar, almoft in the f~me _
plane; nor could their power have projeCted t. comets, with all the va-
riety of their direCtions. If we fuppofe the. matter of the fyftem to be
accumulated the centre . by its gravity, no mechanical principles, with
the affiftance of this power, could feparate the huge and unwieldy mafs
into fuch parts as the fun and planets ; and, after CMrying them to their
ditfc;rent diftances, projetl: them in their feveral diredions, preferving fiill
th~ equality ofaction and re-action, or the ftate of the centre of gravity of
• See Clarke's Demonftration of the Being and Attributes of God.
No. 4· p the
-oigitized by Coogle
-
76 . A N ·I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
the fyftem. · Such an exquifite fl:ruCl.ure of things could only arife from
the contrivance and powerful influences of an intelligent, free, and moft
potent~ agent. The fame powers, therefore, which at prefent govern the
material world, and conduct its various motions, are very different from
thofe, which were neceffary to ,have produced it from nothing, or to have_
difpofed it in the admirable form in which it now proceeds.
. But we lhould exceed the limits of our plan, if, confining our obferva-
tion to the earth, our own habitation, we were to enumerate only the
principal traces of defign and wifdom, as well as goodnefs, which are·dif-
cernible in its figure and conftituent parts, in its diurnal_
and annual mo-
tion, in the pofition of its axis with regard to its orbit, in the benefit
which it derives from the light and heat of the fun, and the alternate vi-
ciffitudes of the feafons; in the atmofphere which furrounds it, and in
the different fpecies and varieti('s of vegetables and animals with which
it is repl~ni.fued. No one can furvey the vegetable produaions of the
earth, fo various, beautiful, and ufeful, nor the various gradations of ani-
.mal life; in fuch a variety of fpecies, all preferved diftinet, and propa-
gated by a fettled law,-each fitted to its own element, provided with pro-
per food, and with inftinets and organs fuited to its rank and fituation,
~nd efpecially with the powers of fenfation and felf-motion, and all more
immediately or remotely fubfervient to the government and ufe of man,
without admiring the fkill and defign of the original Former. But thefe
are more fignally manifefted in the ftrueture of the human frame, and in
the noble powers and capacities of the human mind; more efpecially in
the -moral principles and faculties, which are a diftinguilhing part of our
conftitution, and lead to the perception and acknowledgement of the ex-
iftence and government ofGod. In thofe inftances that have now been
recited, and a variety of imilar inftances fuggeiled by them, or naturally
occurring to the notice of the curious and retletling mind, contrivance is
manifeft, and immediately, without any nice or fubtle reafonin&, fuggefts
a contriver~ It ftrikes us like a fenfation ; and artful reafonings againft
it may puzzle us, without £baking our belief. No perfon, for example,
that knows the principles o~ optics, and the ftructure of the eye, can
oelieve that it was formed without fkill in that fcience; or that the ear
was formed without the knowledge of founds; or ·that tile male and fe..
male, created and preferved in due proportion, were not formed for each
other, and for continuing the fpecies. All our a~counts of nature are full
of inftances of this kind. The admirable and beautiful ftruclure of
things for final caufes exalts our idea of the contriver; and the unity of
defign iliews him to be one. The great motions in the fyftem, performed
with the fame facility as the leaft, fuggeft his ~}mighty power, which
gave motion to the earth and the celeftial' bodies with equal eafe as to
the minuteft particles; the fubtility of the motions and a..:tions in the
internal
Digitized by Coogle
· 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
'
77
internal parts of bodies, Olewt that his influence. penetrates-the inmoft
recdfes of things, and that he is equally aclive and prefent ev~ry where.
The fimplicity of the laws that prevail in the world, the excellent difpo-
fition of things, in order to obtain the heft ends, and the beauty which
adorns the works of nature, far fuperior tc;» any thing in art, fuggeft his .
confummate wifdom. The ufefulnefs of the whole fcheme, fo well con- ·
trived for the intelligent beings who enjoy it, with the internal difpofition ·
and 010ral ftrudore of thofe beings, thews his unbounded goodnefs..
Thefe are arguments which are fufficiently open to the vic;ws and capa-
cities of the unlearned, while at the fame time they acquire new ftrength
and luftre from the difcoveries of the learned. The Deity's aCting and in•
terpofing -in the univerfe, thew that he governs it, as well as that he form.
ed it ; and the depth of his counfels, even in conduCting the material uni·
verfe, of which a great part furpafies our knowledge, tends to preferve an
inward veneration and awe of this great Being, and difpofes us to receive
what may be otherwifc revealed to us concerning him. · His dfence, as
well as that of all other fubftances, is beyond the reach of all our difco-
veries; but his attributes clearly appear in his admirable works. We know
that the higheft c<;>nceptions we are able to form of them are lUll beneath
his real perfections; but his dominion o.ver us, and our duty towards him.
arc abundantly • manifeft.
Another fubftantial argument to prove the exiftence of God, as the
creator and governor of the univerfe, may be deduced from the univerfal
conft:nt of mankind, and the uniform tradition of this belief through
every nation and every age; it is impoffible to conceive, that a fallacy.
fo perpetual and univerfal, thould be impofed oa the united rcafon of man- .
kind. No credible and fatisfactory account can be given of this univerfal .
confent, without afcribing it to the original conftitution of the human
mind, inconftquence of which it cannot fail to difcern the exiftence of a
Deity, arid to the undeniable traces of his being, which his works afford.
Fear, ftate- policy, and the prejudices of education, to which the concur- ·
renee ofmankind in this principle bas been fometimes refolved, are founded
on this univerfal pFinciple, {uppofe its being an influence, and are actuated
by it. It is much more reafonable to imagine, that the belief of a God
was antecedent to their operation, than that it thould have been produced
by .them; and that it was didated by reafon and confcicnce, independent
of the paffion and policy of men. The uniform and univerfal tradition
of this belief, and of the creation of the world by the divine power, af-
fords concurring evidence both of the principle and of the tact·. '1 he
exi(lenceof God is alfo farther evinced by thofe arguments which have been
ufually alledged to prove, th..1t the world had a beginning, and, therefore,
• See Maclaurin's Account of Sir lfaac Newton's Phil. Difc. b. iv. chap. 9• Baxter in his
r:> ·~!,am, Ray, Nie~&wentyt, De la Pl11cbc ia bia Nature DJplayed, ~bamb. Cyclop. &c.
· · that
Digitized by Coogle·
-.
78 A N I L L U S T R A T I ' 0 N
that it mufi have been created py the energy of divine power. In proof
of this, the hifiory of Mofes, cpnfidered merelyas the moft ancient hifto-
rian, deferves particular regard. His tefiimony is confirmed by the moft
ancient writers, among the heathens, both poets and hiftorians. It may
be alfo fairly alledged, that we have no hiftory or tradition more ancient
than that which agrees with the received opinion of the world's begin-
ning, and of the manner in which it was produced ; and that the moft
an_fient hiftories were wr~tten long after that time. And this confidera-
tion is urged by Lucretius, the famous Epicurean, as a ~lrong prefump-
tion that the world had a beginning: t..-w
...·---
- Si nulla fuit genitalis origo .
Terrar-
um-& c~li, femperque :,Eterna fuere:
Cur fupra bellum Thebanum, & funera Trojre)
Non alias alii quoque res cecinere poetre?
Befides, the origin and progrefs of learning, and the moft ufeful arts,
confirm the notion of the world's beginning, and of the common :era of
its creation ; to which alfo may. be added, tpat the ~orld itfelf, being
material and .corruptible, muft have had a beginning; and many pheno-
mena occur to the obfervation of the aftronomer and mathematician,
which furnith a ftrong prefumption, that it could have had no long du-
ration, and that it now gradually tends to dHfolution. From thefe con-
:fiderations we may infer the abfolute being and providence of God;
which alfo detnonftrate the exiftence of his angels and miniftring fpirits,
who are the meffengers of his will, and tb·e proper inhabitants of the
ethereal wo~ld, ahd confequently the next fubjeds of our enquiry.
An Angel is. a fpiritual intelligent fubftance, and the firft in rank and
dignity of all created beings; though the word .Angel, A'n•'-oc, is not pro-
perly a denomination of nature, but of office; denoting a mejftnger, or
executioner of the wiJl of fome fuperior power or authority. In this fenfe
they are frequently mentioned in Scripture, as miniftring fpirits fent by
the Almighty to declare his will, and to correCt, teach, rewove, and com-
fort. God alfo promulgated the law to Mofes, and appeared to- the old
patriarchs by the mediation of angels, who reprefented him, and ·fpoke
in his name·~ The exifi:ence of angels is admitted iq all religions ; the
Greeks and ~atins acknowledged them under the names of genii .and
demons; and in the Alcoran we find frequent mention of them; the
profeffors of the Mahometan religion affigned them various orders and
degrees, as well as different employments, b_oth in heaven and on earth.
The Sadducees alfo admit their exiftence: witnefs Abufaid, the author of
an Arabic verfion of the Pentateuch; and Aaron, a Caraite Jew, i~ his
comment ~n the Pentateuch; both extant in manufcrip_
t in the king of
Francc'"s library. The heathen philofophers and poets were alfo agreed as
to the exiftence of intelligent beiogs, fuperior to man; as it iliewn by
St.
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S· T R '() L 0 G Y. 19
~st. Cyprian, in his treatife on the vanity of idols, from the tefi:imonies
.of Plato, Socrates, and TrifmegHlus. Authors are not fo unanimous
about their nature as of their exiftence ; Clemens Alexandrinus believed
they ·bad bodies, which was alfo the opinion of Origen, C:efarius, Ter40
tu11ian, and feveral others; but Athanafius, Batil, Gregory, Nicene,
Cyril, and Chryfoftom, hold them to be mer.e fpirits. Authors
are alfo divided as to the time of the creation of angels ; fome will have
it to have been before the creation of our world, or ever from eternity;
while others maintain that they were created at the fame time with our
world. The moll: probable conjetlure is, that they were created at dif..
ferent periods, whenever it pleafed the Almighty to call thein into ex:..
i'ftence. But, though we cannot (o clearly demonftrate the precife nature
and duration of angels, we may neverthelefs conclude, that, though they
are of an order highly fuperior ·to that of men, yet are they not complete
and perfect; for, had they been created thus originally, they could not
have fallen, as Adam did, nor have finned, which the fcriptures inform
us fome of them did, by rebelling againft the Almighty, and in contend40
ing with him for fupreme authority. For this reafon, as they are them..
felves imperfeH beings, they can in no one refpetl be confidered proper
objects of human adoration, which we are bound to pay alone to that
ONE SuPREME, who is omnipotent, immortal, infinite, the fource and
centre of every thing that is great, _
and good, and perfect.
Theo1ogi11:s hav~ divided angels into different ranks or fubordinations,
which they term Hierarchies, from uco,, holy, and "'PiC'I• rule, 6gnifying,
holy command, or to rule in boly things. Dionyfius and other ancient
writer& have efi:ablithed nine choirs or orders of thefe ce1eftial fpirits,
namely, feraphim, cherubim, thrones, dominions, principalities, powers,
virtues, angels, and archangels; and thefe they form into three Hierarchies,
appointing them .their refpeaive offices in the performance of adoration
and praife, and in executing the word and will of God. The Rabbins
and JewHb writers, who had obvioutly a more immediate knowledge of
the angelic hoft, by the infpiration of their prophets, and the revelation ·
of God's tr.ue relig·ion, have defined one rank of angels, or intelligent
beings, fuperior to all the foregoing, which anfwer to or are contained in
the ten diftinguHhing names of God, and are the pure effences of his
fpirit~ or ftream though which his will and pleafure is cornmnnicated
to the angels and bletfed fpirits, and through which his providence extends
to the care 3nd proteaion of all his works. The firft of thefe divine ef40
fences is denominated mrr, jehovah, and is peculiarly attributed to God
the Father, being the pure and fimple effence of the Divinity, flowing
through Hajotb Hakados to the angel Metratton, and to the minifi.ering
fpirit Refchith Hagalalim, who guides the primum mobile, and beftows
the gift of being upo.n all things. To this fpirit is allotted the office of
No. 4· Q_ bringing
Digitized by Coogle
So A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
bringing the fouls c;Jf the faithful departed into· heaven; ~nd by him'God
fpake to Mofes• . The fecCi>nd is li~ jab, and is attributed the pedon
of the Meffiah, or II.Gfou whofe power and influence defcends though the
angel Mafieh i-nto the fp]lere of the Zodiac. This is the fpirit or word
which actuated the ch~s, and divided the unwrought matter into three
portions: of the fidl: or moll: dfential part was the fpiritual world com-
pofed ; of the fecond was m~e the vHible heaveru and the luminous.
bodies ; and of the third or inferior part was formed the tcrrefiriaJ.
world, out of which was drawn the elemental quinteffence or firt\ matter.
of all things, which produced the four elements, and all creatures that
inhabit them, by the agency of a particular fpirit called lta~iel, whQ. was
the ruler· of Adam. 1 he third. is rr:iN, Ehjeh, and is attributed to. the.
Holy Spirit, whofe divine light is received by the angel Sabba.thi, and.
communica,ted from him through the fphere of Satutn. This is the prin-
dpium generationis, the beginning of the ways of God, or the manifefta-
t.ion of the Father and the Son's light iD the fupernatura.I geoc:ratioo.
And from hence flow down all living fouls, entering_ the inanimate body,
and giving form to unfettled matter. The fourth is '1~, El, throoga the;
light of whom flow grace, gpodaefs, mercy, piety, and mu.ni6cence,.
to the angel Zadkiel; and,. thence patling th·rough the fphere of jllpiter,.
·£a1hioacth the images of all bodies, bellowing clemeocy, benevolence,~
'nd juftice, on a:ll. The fifth is "m~, Elohi, the upholder of the fworcl
end left-hand of God, whofe influence penetrates the angel Geburah, and
thence defcends though tbe fpbere of Mars, giviDg fortitude in war and
afilittion. The fixth is 1'\,~~. 'l]i:baoth, wha beftoweth his mighty
power throug}l the angel Raphael into the .fphcre,of the Sun, gi.ving mo- .
tioo~. hea4 and brightnefs, to it, and thence producing metals. The fe-
veath is l""w, Eiz"o.n, who rules the angel Michael, and defcends though
the 1iphere of Mercury, giving benignity, motion, and intelligence. with,
elegance a~ confonaace of fpcech. The eighth is":!,~, AJoMi, whofo
influencte is receiYed by the angel Haniel, and coiDOlaoicateCil through the
fpherc of Venus, giving zeal, fervency~ and righ.tcounefs of heart, aod
producing vegetables.. The ninth is 'I-1W,.Shaddlli, whofe influence is con-
veyed by cherubim to the angel Gabriel, and falls iato the fphere.of the
Moon, caufing increafe and decreafe of all things, governing the ge~ and
, prot~ors of men. The tenth. is oli;~ Eiohim, who extends his bene-
ficence to the angel Jefodoth,. into the fpbere of the earth, and difpenfetb
knowledge, un.derftaodiog, and ·w:ifaom. Tbe three tirft of tllef• ten
names, viz. mri', Jehovah, rr. Jab. and miN, Ehj.eh, exprefe the
cffence of God, and are proper names J but the other fcven are only u;..
preffivc of his..attributes. The prin~ipal and only true name of the-God- ·
bead. according. both to the Hebrews and and Greeks, is ::Tr.n,~.
T-ea~., tbt 114/ne offo•r letteFS, with.which. the GodMad~e in moft
la.oiuag,es, is obferved to ba e.xprctfed 1 thus ia Helitrcw tho Sup.eQM
Being
' oigitizedbyGoogle
0 F A S 'f R 0 L 0 G Y. ~ · 8t
Bein'g is called m:i' Jehovah; in the Greek, e.of; in Latin, Deu1; i•
Spanilh, Dio1; in lta1ian, ldio; in French, Dieu; in the ancient Gaul- ·
}fh, Diex; in ancient German, Diet; in the Sclavonic, Buch; in Arabic,
Alia; in th~ PoliQl, Bung; in the Pannonian, l/111; in ·the Egyptian,
<Ienu; in the Perfian, Sire; and in the' language of the ancient Magi,
Orji. Thus God is conceived to work by the ideas of his own mind,
and tbefe ideas difpcnfe their feals, and communicate them to whatever
is.formed or created,. ·
In the exterior circle of the celcftial heaven, in which are placed
the fixed ftars, tbe Anima Mundi hath her particular forms, or feminal
conceptions, anfwea:ing to the ideu of tbe Divine Mind; and this fitu,.
ation, approaching neareft to the empyrean heaven, the feat of God, re..
c:eives the fpiritual powers and influCJKes which immediately proceed
from him. Hence. they arc diffufed through tbc fpherea of the planeta
aad heavenly bodies, and. commUDica5ed to the inmoft centre of the earth,
by meaas of the terreftrial elements. Thus. have the wife and learned
men amou.g the Jews. dcd.~~eed the c:onftrudion aDd barmoay of the world,
and thcwn that God performs all his fecret a.nd ftupendous works by the
medium of th~ cel.eftial bodies.. He aCl:s and governs iru.mediately by
himfelf~ but mediately by the bea.venly bodies. which are the inllruments
of hi$ Providence, and tbc {econdary caufes, by which the earth and all
fimiJar fyftcms·are regulated; and thefe, perhaps. ugulate one another.
by a reciprocal influence and fympathy, commanicated to them in.tbc
~dination. of natu~e. And hence comea the origiRal or ground-work
of all men's nativities, and all manner of Aatural queftions. and things.
and the ftory of a.ll that. may happen or proceed out of na.tural cauCcs. 'to
the full end af time. To. demonftrate this more !atisfactorily, we lhall
now define the natural properties of the c~leftial \~add, with its particu-
lar diyi1bns, quantity, motion, and meafwc, aa..laid do.wn by the rula
of Aftronomy; ud thia will lead II& lO the. dofuiac of natiNitics.
AN
Digitized by Coogle
..
S2 A N I L L U S T R. A T I 0 N
AN ASTRONOMICAL SURVEY of the CELESTIAL WORLD~
with the Places, Order, and Motions, of the HEAVENLY BoDIEs.
IT was formerly a fubjed: of difpute among Pbilofophers, whether the
earth or the Sun was the centre of the celeftial fyftem ; but the latter
opinion has been generally received fince the time of Copernicus, who aboU't
the year 1543 publitbed his fix books De Orbium Cwleftium Revolu-
tionibus, wherein he proves the Sun to be very near the centre ofgravity of
the whole fyftem, and in the common focus of. every one of the planetary
orbits. Next the Sun, Mercury performs his revolution around him 1
. next to Mercury is the orbit of Venus; and next to Venus, our earth,
with its attendant or fecondary the Moon, perform a joint courfe, and by
their revolution meafure out the annual period. Next to the earth is
Mars, the firft of the fuperior planets: next to him it Jupiter; and, Iaft
of all, Saturn. Thefe and the comets are the conftituent parts of the
Cppernican or folar fyftem, which is now received and approved as the
only true one, becaufe moft agreeab,le to the tenor of nature in all her ac-
tions; for, by the two motions of the earth all the phenomena of the
heavens are refolved, which by other hypothefes are inexplicable without
a great number ·ofother motions contrary to philofophical reafoning. It
is alfo more rational to ·fuppofe that the earth moves round the Sun, than
that the huge bodies of the planets, the ftupendous' body of the Sun, and
the immenfe firmament of ilars, ihould all move round the earth ever1
twenty-four hours. The harmony which runs through the folar fyftem
·wonderfully confirms this hypothefis, viz. that the motions of all the
planets, both primary and fecondary, are governed and re~ulated by one
and the fame law, which is, that the fquares of the per1odical times of
the primary planets are to each other as th~ cubes oftheir diftances from
the Sun; and likewife the fquares of the periodical times of the feconda·
ries of any primary are to each other as the cubes of their diftances froru
that primary. Now the Moon, which.., in the Copernican fyftem, is a fe.
cond.ary of Jhe earth, in the other hypothefis is confidered as a primary
·one; and fo the ru)c cannot take place, becaufe the periodical time ftated
as that ofa primary one does not agree therewith. But this fingle confi-
deration is fufficicnt to eftabliih the motion of the earth for ever! viz. if
the earth does. not move round the Sun, the Sun muft move with the
Moon round the earth. Now, the diftance of the Sun to that of the
· Mo.on being as Io,ooo to 46, and the Moon's period being lefs than twen-·
ty-eight days, the Sun's period wouJd be found no lefs than two hundre-
aod forty~two years; whereas, in fad, it is but one year. The Sun altv
being the fountain of light and heat, ~hich it irradiates through all the
1 . !yftcm
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
tyll:em, it mull: of courfe be placed in the centre, in order that the planets
may at all times have it in an uniform and equable manner. For, if the
earth be fuppo-fed in the centre, and the Sun and planets revolve about it,
the planets would then, like- th~ comets, be fcorched with heat when
neareft the Sun, and frozen with cold in their aphelia, or gre~teft diftance;
which is not to be imagined. But, if the Sun be fuppofed in the centre
of the fyftem, we then have the rational hypothefis of the planets being all
moved round the Sun, by the univerfal law or power of gravity arifing
from his vaft body, and every thing will anfwer to the laws of circular
motion and central forces; but otherwife we are wholly in the dark, and
know not how to define thefe operations of nature. Fortunately, however,
we are able to give not only reafons, but demonA:rable proofs, that the Sun
does poffefs the centre of the (vftem, and that the planets move about
him in the order above-mentioned. The fir(\; is, that Mercury and Ve-
nus are ever obferved to have two conjund:ions with the Sun, but no op-
pofition, which could not happen unlefs the orbits of thefe planets lay
within the orbit of the earth. The fecond is, that Mars, Jupiter, ·and
Saturn, have each their conjunctions and oppofitions to the Sun alternately
and fucceffively, which could not be unlefs their orbits were exterior to
that of the earth. In the third place, the greateft elongation or diftance
of Mercury from the Sun is about twenty degrees, and that of Venus
forty-feven degrees; whiCh anfwers exaHiy to their diftance in this fyf.
tem; but, in the other, they would be feen one hundred and eighty de-
grees from the Sun, in oppofition to him. Follrthly, in this difpofition
of the planet~, -they will all of them be fometimes much nearer to the earth
than at others; the confequence of which is, that their brightnefs and
fplendour. and alfo their apparent diameters, will be proportionally grea-
t-
er at one time than another; and this we obferve to be true every day.
Thus, the apparent dia~tcr of Venus, when greateft, is near fixty-fiJ:
feconds, but, when leaft, not more than nine and a half; of Mars, when
greatefi, it is twenty-one feconds, but, when leaA:, no more than two fe-
conds and a half; whereas, by the other hypothefis, they ought always
to be equal. The fifth is, that, when the planets. are viewed with a goon.,.
telefcope, they appear with diffi:rent phafes, or with different parts of
their bodies enlightened. Thus Venus is fometimes new, then horned,
and afterwards dichotomized, then gibbous, afterwards full, and {o en-
creafes and decreafes her light in the fame manner as the Moon, and as
this fyftem requires. Th~ fixth proof is, that the planets, all of them,
do fometimes appear direct in motion, fometimes retrograde, and at other
times ftationary. Thus, Venus, as 1hc paffes from her greateft elongation
weftward to her greateft elongation eaftward, will appear direct in mo-
tion, but retrograde as 1he paffes from the latter to the former; and,
when the is in thofe points of greateft diftance from tae Sun, the feems
No. 4• .. · · R for
Digitized by Coogle
AN• ILLUSTRATION
for fame time fiationary; all which is neceifary upon the Copernican by..
pothefis, but cannot happen in ~ny o,ther. The feventh is, that the ~a­
dies of Mercury and Venus, in their low conjunCtions with the Sun, are
hid behind the Sun's body, and in the upper conjunCtions are feen. to
p~fs over the Sun's body, or difk., in form ofa black round fpot, which is
neceffary in the Copernican fyft~m, but impoGible in any other. The
eighth is, that the times in which thefe conjuntlions, oppofitions, fta..
tions, and retrogradations, of the planets happen a.re not fuch as -they
would be ifthe earth were at reft in its orbit, but precifely fuch as
would happen were the earth to move round the Sun, and all the other
planets i~ the periods affigned them; and therefore this, .and no .other,
can be the true fyftem of the world.
But, the better to determine the ph~es of the celeftial bodies, end to
underftand the conftitution of the heavens more clearly, afi:ronomers have
conceived Qr defcribed feveral circles, called the circles of the .fphere, by
which the cclefi:ial world is divided and meafured out. Sam·e of thefe
are called great circles, as the equinotl:ial, ecliptic, meridian, &c. and
others fmall circles, as the tropics, parallels, &c. The equinoctial line
is a circle which we imagine to invefi: the whole world, and is fo caJied,
becaufe, whenever the Sun, in his progrefs through the ecliptic, come~ to
this circle, it makes equal days and nights all round the globe, as he
then rifes due eaft, and fets due weft, which he .never docs at any other
time of the year. This equinoCtial line is conceived .to be three hundred
and' fixty degrees in its whole circumference ; and each of thefe degrees
r
js divided into fixty minutes, or fixty equal parts of a degree, and thefe
again into as many teconds. The meridian is another great circle, con-
fifting alfo ofthree hundred and uxty degrees, extending from one polar
point to the other, and twice cutting the equinuctialline, compaffing the
.whole world from north to fouth, as the equinoB:ial does from caft to
weft, and terminates at the fame point where it began. The equinottial
line is fixed and immutable, and is of neceffity always conceived to be
in one and the fame place; but the meridian. is mutable, and may circle
:the world in any or in all degrees of the equator, as we may bav.e occa6on
to conceive or imagine; it muft, however, uniformly divide the fphere
into two equal parts, which are called hemifpheres. The. polar -points
are thofe two points in the immenfe ball of the world which are equi-
diftant from the equinoaial line,..the one in the utmoft northern, and the
other in the utmoft fouthern, point. The three hundred and flxty degrees
.ofthe equinodialline are called the longitude of the world, becaufe they
.are in order as -the Sun and ftars move in their circuits throagh the fpaci-
·ous heavens in their refpeHive orbs. But the three hundred and fixty de-
,grees .of the meridian .are called the latitude of the world, becaufc" they
·. mete
Digitized by GoogI
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
mete out that diftance wherein the Sun and all the ftars, in a certain
breadth one -from another, move in their circuits from eaft to weft.
Now the Sun, in his annual progrefs from weft to eaft, does not keep
the equinoCtial line, but declines from it at one part of. the year to the
· north, and at another part of the year to the fouth; and the planets alfo .
obferve the fame order in their progrefs, except that the Sun always keeps
the fame conftant t~ack, whereas the planets often vary in their declina-
tions from the equinoflial Jine. Hence another great circle is conceived
in the heavens, called the Zodiac, which is likewife divided, as all the
great circles are, into three hundred and fixty degrees ; but this circle·
being as it were the high road of the planets, and comprehending fo much
of the heavens as the Sun and planets fwerve in their declinations, is con-
ceived to be twenty degrees·broad; and it is confined to this fpace, be-
caufe none of the planets ever reach beyond ten degrees north, or ten de-
grees fouth, from the equinoClialline; and the Sun's path or track in the
Zodiac is caJled the ecliptic line, becaufe the eclipfes only happen when
the Moon is alfo in this line.
The Zodiac is alfo divided into twelve equal parts, called the twelve
Signs, or hot!fts o/hetrVen ; and, thefe beginning where the Sun enters the
equinoctial to the northward, the firft fign is named Aries, and the reft
in order are called Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio11
Sagittarius, Capricornus, Aquaries, and Pifces. Thefe figns confift of
thirty degrees each; and, being all of them divided into four equal parts,
determine the four {eafons of the year. Now, when the Sun enters into
the 6gn calJed Cancer, he is in his greateft north declination, and at that
time is diftant from the equinoctial line twenty-three degrees to the
north; which occafions another circle to be defcribed, calle~ the tropic .
of Cancer, the centre of which being the no·rth pole, it comprehends
as much of the extremity of the round .world as falls under twenty-
three degrees and a half from the equator to the northward. And, when
the Sun enters the fign Capricornus, he is in his utmoft fouth decli•
nation, and occafions another cir~le to be defcrib.ed, called the tropic
of Capricorn, as many degrees from the equator to the fouth as the
otlier tropic is to the north. At the difiance of forty-five degrees from
each of thefe tropics two other circles are imagined, called the artlic,
and antarctic circles, which, being but little more than twenty degrees ·
diftant from each pole, ·do likewife encircle Come fmall portion af the
extremities of the world. The inferior circles, called parallels, run
from eafr to weft, a~d ferve to divide the heavens into f~veral tpaces :be-
tween the greater circles.
Andent
Digitized by Coogle
•
86 AN ILL-USTRATI-ON
Ancient tradition has handed down to us the origin of that important
circle called the Zodiac, with the reafon why it is fo named, and the inge-
nious method which the firft men made ufe of to know exactly the line
which the Sun defcribes under the heavens in the perpetual chang.ings of
its place, and to divide the year into equal portions. This tradition 6
found in two ancient authors, the one Roman, the other Greek. The
firft attributes it to the Egyptians; the other, to the firft inhabitants of
Chaldea. They every day faw the Sun and the whole heavens turning
and, paffing from eaft to weft. In the mean time they obferved that the
Sun, by a mt tion peculiar to it, from day to day receded from fome cer-
tain ftars, and took its place under others, always advancing towards the
eaft. Whilft the Moon was making twelve times that revolution, the
Sun made it only once; but file began the thirteenth again before the
Sun had as yet completed its own. The habit of dividing the year into
pretty near twelve lunations made them wi(h :that they had twelve divi-
faons of a year perfeCtly equal, or.twelve months, which might be exaClly
·equivalent to the year itfelf, and which might, as it were, be pointed at
with one's finger in the heavens, by !hewing fome certain ftars under which
the Sun paffes during every one of thefe months. · Here is then the me•
·thod in which they divided the courfe of the Sun in twelve equal portions
or colleEHons of fiars, which are called afterifms or conftellations. Our
.aftronomers took a couple of brafs open ve1fels,· the one pierced at the
bottom, and the other without any orifice below. Having ftopped the
. hole of the firft, they filled it with water, and placed it fo as that the wa-
.ter might run out into the other vefl"el the moment-the cock fuould be
·opened. This done, they obferved in that part of the heaven where the
Sun has its annual courfe the rifing of a fiar remarkable either for its
.magnitude or brightnefs; and, at the critical inftant it appeared on the
horizon, they began to let the water flow out of the upper ve!fel into. the
other during the reft of the night, and the whole following day, to the
very moment when the fame ftar, being come to the eaft again, began to
.appear anew on the horizon. The inftant it was again feen, they took
away the under veffel, and threw the water that remaineci in the other
on 'the ground. The obfervers were thus fure of having one revolution
·of the whole heaven between the firft rifing of the ftar and its return.
The water, which had flowed during that time, might then afford them
a means of meafuring the -duration ot one whole revolution of the heaven,
an'd pf dividing that duration into feveral equal portions,; fince, by dividing
that water itfelf into twelve equal parts, they were fure of having the re-
W:~Iution of a twelfth part of the heaven during the efHux of a twelfth
part of the water; they then divided the water of the under vdfd int0
twelve parts perfeClly equal, and prepared two other fmall ve1fels capable
of containing exaaly one of tho£'e portions, and no· more. They again
1 ' _poured
Digitized by Coogle
-o F A S T R. ·o L G 0 Y.
poured into the great upP.er velfel the twelve parts of water aU at once,
keeping the vefTels thut. Then they placed under the cock, 1\ill ibut,
one of the two fm'llll ve1fels, and another near it to fucceed the Iirft as
foon as it lhould be full.
All thefe preparations being 'Peady, they, the next night, obferved that
part of the heaven towards which they had for a long while remarked that
the Sun, the Moon, and the planets, took their courfes, and (hid for the
rifing of the conftellation which is fince calJed Aries. The Greeks, per-
haps, gave that name to fome ftars different from thofe which went by lt
before the flood; but this enquiry is not nece1fary at prefent. The in-
ftant Aries appeared, and they faw the firft ftar of it afcending, they lefl
the water run into the little meafure. As foon as it was full, they re•
moved it, and threw the water out. In the mean time they put the other
empty meafure under the fall. They obfetved exad1y, and fo as to re-
member very weU, all the ftars that rofe during all the periods which the.
meafure took in fiJJing ; and that part of the heaven was terminated in
their obfervations by the ftar which appeared the laft on the horizon the
moment the meafure was juft full: fo that, by giving the two little vcil"els
the time nece1fary to be alternately filled .to the brim three times each
during the night, they h3d, by that means, one half of the .courfe of the
fun in the heaven, that is, one half of the heaven itfelf; and. that half
again was divided into fix equal portions, of which they might ihew at1d
• · diftinguilh the beginning, the dliddle, and the en){, by ftars, which, fran\.
their fize, humber, or order, were rendered tiiftinguiihable. As to the
6ther half of the be;tven, and the fix other ~;c>nftelladons whi~h the fuai
runs over therein, they were fbrced to defer the obfervation of them to
another feafon. They waited till the fun, being placed in the midtlle oF
the now known and obferved conftellations, lhould leave them at liberty
to fee the other during the night. ·
.
Dotibtlefs, fome precautions were neeeffary, not to iriifta1te 4a to the
· fall of the water, which mull: flow more flowly in ptopdrtion as itS mafs
is lefs high•. However, after having, by this or fome fuch means., made
themfelves fure of the great annual courfe which the fun faithfully fol..;
Jows·in the heaYens, and bf the equality (j( the (paces filled by the twelve
collections of ftars that limit that conrfe, the obfervers thougfn of giving
them n:tmes. They in general called thetn the ftation'S ~r the·hbti{e$ of
the fun, and afiigned three at them to each feafon. They th-en gaYe
each confteUation a peculiar ~arne, whofe prdperty did ilot on1y confitt
in milking it ·known again to all nations, but in declaring, at the fame
cirru:; the eircumlla.tJce C1f the year (which was of concertl to Jhankind)
.,rhen the- fob lhould arriv~ Itt tba conftellarion.
No 4~ s :Py
Digitized by Coogle
.'
88 A N I L L U S T R· A T I 0 N
By aparticular care of Providence, the darl)S of the flock commonly
happen to· be pregnant about the end of· autumn,; they bri-ng forth
during the winter and in the beginnin~ of the fprlng ; whence -~
happens that the young ones are kept warm under the mother during
the cold, and afterwards eafily thrive and grow -aCtive at the return of
the heat. · The lambs come the firfi, the calves follow them, and the
kids fall the laft. By this· means the lambs, grown vigorous and fil'ong.
tnay follow the ram to the fields, as the fine days come on~ Soon after
the calves, and at lafi the kids, venture abroad, ·~nd, by increafwg the
fiock, begin to augment the revenues oflheir mafier•
. · ·Our ancient obfervers, feeing that there were during the fpring no
produCtions more ufeful than lambs, calves, and kids,. gave the confiel-
lations, under which the fun pa1les during that feafon, the names of the
three animals: which enrich mankind molL The firft was named Aries•.
the fecond 'F~rus, the third the two kids, Gemini, the better to cha-
racterize· tbe fecundity of goats, which more commonly bring forth two
young ones thaQ one, and an abundance of milk more than· fufficient to
no'uriili them•
.,
.
' "'
The bulk of mankind had already very often remarked, that there was
a point to which the fun raifed itfelf in its coming towards them, but
which it ne.ver exceeded; and that it afterwards funk daily, in receding
from them, for fix mo~ths together' till it arrived at another point a great
way under the firft, but below which it never defcended. This retreat
of the Sun, made very flowly, and always backward, gave the obfervers
the occafion of diftinguithing the fiars, which follow the two kids, or
Gemini, by the name. of the animal that walks backward, viz. the crab.
When the fun paff'es under the next conftelJation, it makes .our climate
feel fultry heats, but chiefly the climates where men were at that time
all gathered together. When poets attribute to that conftellation the
fiercenefs .asd ·raging of the lion, of which it bears the name, it· is very
cafy to guefs at what might determine that choice from the beginning.
Soon after, the houfing of the hay and the corn is entirely over through..
out the eaft; .there remain on the ground only a few ears fcattered . here
and there, ·which they caufed to be gleaned by the leaft necdfary hands;
this work' is left to the youngeft girls. How then could they reprefent
the conftellation, under which the fun fees no longer any crops on the
ground, b_etter than by the name and figure of a young maid g_leaning?
The wings you fee her have in the fpheres are ornaments added of l:iter
date, after the introduction of fables. The virgin,, which follows the
lion, is certainly no other than a gleaning girl, or, if you will, a reaper;
and, left we iliould miftake her functions, ihe bdides has in her hand acluf,.
ter of ears; a very natural proof of the origin here attributed to her.
. The
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 0 Y.
_ The perfect equality of days and nights, which happens when th.e Sun
_quits the fign Virgo, ca_ufed aftronomers to give the next fign the name of
Libra,·that is, of a balance• .J'he'frequent difeafes which the Sun leaves
behin~ him, or caufes by his retiring, procured the next fign the name of
Scorpio; becaufe it is mifchievous, and drags after it a fting and venom.
Towards the end of autumn, the fall of the leaf expofes wild beafis, leav-
ing them Jefs covering: vintage and harveft are over; the fields are free;
and it ii of ill confequence to fu.tfer the propagation of beafis at the ap-
proach of winter. Every thing then invites us.to hunt, and the fign, in·
which the Sun is at that time, has from thence obtained the name of
Sagittarius; that is, the archer, or huntfman. What is the proper and
difiinttive charatter of the wild goat, or Capricorn, of which the firft
ftgn of winter has the name? it is to look for its food, getting from tho
foot of the mountains to the higheft fummit, and always climbing from
rock to rock: the name of Capricorn was then fit to inform men of
the time when the Sun, having reached the lowell: verge ofits courfea was·_
ready to begin to afcend again towards the lrigheft, and to continue to do ·
fo for fix months together. This is quite the reverfe of the crab (Cancer);.
and the happy concurrence of the oppofitc characters of thefe .two ani-
mals is a proof of what direaed the firft obfervers in the impofition of
all thefe names. Aquaries and Pifces, without any difficulty, mark out
the rainy feafon, and the time of the year when fithes, fatter and nicer than
in any other time, bring on again the profit and pleafure of fithing. . It
may be remarked_, that, of the twelve conftellations, there are ten the
names of' which are borrowed from feveral animals; which caufed aftro-
nomers to give the annual circle, which they compofe~ the name of Zo-
diac. It is as much as if you would fay, the circle ifanimals.
By this very plain indufiry, men acquired a new method .of. meafuring
time, and of regulating all their works. They already knew, . without
any trouble or care, how to regulate the order of their feafts and common
bufioefs. by infpeClion ollly of the phafes of the Moon. From the know- .
ledge of the Zodiac,_ they obtained an exaa knowledge of the year ; the .
confiellatio~s became to them fo many very fignificant figos, which,.
both by their names and refpeaive fituations, informed them of the or~ ·
der of their harvefts, and ot the cautions they were to take in order to
bring them about, openly and daily £hewing them how long they were 'to
ftay for them; the people were neither obliged to caft up the ~lays, nor
mark out the order of times, to regulate themfelves. Twelvewords, ap-
plied to twelve different parts of the heaven, which cve~y night revolved
before tbeir·eyes, were to them a part of knowledge no lefs convenient
and advantagevus than c:afy to·be acquired. When men, after the fctting
of the Sun, faw the ftars of the ·fign Aries afcend the oppofite horizon,
. and diftant from the Sun by one halt· pf the h~avcn, they ~h:n knew that .
· ilie
Digitized by Coogle
AN tLLUSTR.AT'ION
the fun was under the fign Lib~ which, being the feventh of the celef..
tial figns, was diftant from ,the fidl: by one whole half of the Zodiac.-
When at the approach of day they faw in the middle of the heaven, and
at an equal difi:ance from eafi: and wefi:, the fineft ftar of the fign Leo, they
eafity underftood that the fun, then ready to rife, was at the diftance of
thcee fign' from Leo, and removed towards the eaft one quarter part o'f its
circle. Thus, without feeing the ·ftars which the fun drowned· by his
hrightnefs as he came under them, they {aid, with a perfect a1furance, that
the fun is now in Scorpio ; two months hence we fuaU have the lhorteft
' day. 1 hey could, on fight of a fingle confte1lation, placed in the eaftern,
or middle, or we(lern, part of the heaven, immediately fay where the fl!n
was, how far the year was advanced, and what kind of work it was fit
they ibould bufy themfc:lves about. After this manner fuepherds and
farmers ftill regulate their works; and, if we at prefent are now ignorant
of the ftars, if we are not able to determine the diftance between one
.eoniellation thewn us and the aaual place of the fun, it is becaufe we
can read and write. The firft men perufed the ·heavens for want of writ-
ing; and it is on account _of tbe conveniency of writing that the gene-
rality of men now difpenfe with looking among the ftars for the know-· .
ledge of the operations and order of the year. But writing itfelf, that
fo ufeful inventi~n, is one of the produCts of afironomy; and it may be
.. eafily {hewn alfo, that the names given the twelve celefiial figns gave birth
to the in-vention both of painting and writing. The hiftory of the heavens
ftill promifes further novelty, and it will continue to inform us of the
helps Jor which we are indebted to the ftudy of nature.
Now, merely to know and to under~nd thofe divifions of the heavens
is nothing more than fpeculative aftrology, commonly called Aftronomy;
but, t~ attain to the knowledge of t\.ftrology in general, we muft be con-
ve,.nt i~ ':he ajfdlions and qualities ofthe heavenly matter, and of the pla-
nets and fixed tlars. It is generally imagined that the fixed ftars are faft.
ened in the eighth orb of the celeftial heaven, and only mo.ve as that orb
doth, and uniformly together, about one minute's fpace in a. whole year;
but reafon has not abfolutely determined this point, fo as to leave it quite
f.ltisfactory, or incontrovertible. The fixed frats are ob{erved t~ differ
from the planets by their twinkling or !parkling; whence philofophers
have conceived them to thine with their own innate light, the fame as the
fun· does. The number of ftars difcoverable in either hecnifphere is
not above a thoufand. This at firft may appear incredible, becaufe they
fcem to be without number; but the deception arifes from our looking
confufedly upon them, without reducing them into any order•. If we
but look ftcdfafUy upon a pretty large portion of the 1ky, aad count the
• See icta"faa!• AlroiKllllJ.. .sea. 355, "c. ftars ·
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
Lhrs in it, we lhall be furprifed to find them fo few ; and, if we confi-
der how feldom the moon meets with any ftars in her way, althougly'
there are as many about her path as in other parts of the heavens, ~
may foon be convinced that the ftars are much thinner fown than peo-
ple are aware of. The Britilh catalogue, which, befides the ftars vilible
to the naked eye, includes a great number which cannot be feen without
the affifiance o'f a telefcope, contains no more than three thoufand in both
hemifpheres. From what we know of the immenfe difi:ances of tpe tlxed
ftars, the neareft may be computed at 32,ooo,ooo,ooo,ooo of miles froo1'
the earth, which is farther than a cannon-ball would fly in [even mil-
lion of years! Thefe fi:ars, on account of th eir apparently various mag- I
nitudes, are difiributed into feveral claifl!s or orders; thofe which appear
largefr are called Jlars ifthejirjl magnitude; the next to them, in fize
and lufi:re, fiars qf the Jecond magnitude; 11nd fo on to th.ejixth, whic~
confiil of the fmalle!l; that can be feen by the naked eye. This diftri
bution having been made long before the invention of telefcopes,
ftars which cannot be feen without the help of thefe inftruments '
diftinguilhed by the name of telejcopic flars.
, For th.e fame reafon that the fiars within the belt or circle of
diac were divided into confi:ellations, fo have been thofe on
of it ; viz. to diftinguiili them from one another, fo that an
il:ar may be readiJy found in the heavens, by the help of ace
upon which the conilellations are fo delineated as to pu
marl~abie ftars into fuch parts of ,the figures which re
are mofi ealily iiftinguiilied; and thofe ftars which coul
into any part of thele f\gures are called unfcrrntdJlars.
the ancient conftellations is forty-eight : viz. upon the z
upon all that region of the heavens on the north-fide of
twenty-one ; and up >n the fouth -fide .fifteen mor ,; n akin i
whole forty-eight con{l:e1lations. But, oder P. 1H01
.and afirologians having added a nut of 4 t
down.in their proper or er.
TABLE of the Ancient N S.
'.rycho. Hevel. Flamll.
Urfa minor The Little'13-ear 7 12 24
Urfa maj'or The Great Bear 3.5 29 73 87
Draco The Dragon Jl 32 40 So
Cepheus Cepheus 13 4 51 35
£ootes, ArCiopbilax
.~~
18 52 54
'orona Borealis The Northern Crown 8 8 21
·Hercules, Engonajin Hercult:s kneeling · .. 29 28 45 113
~o. 5· I •
T ··~.. Lyra
.-. .
.,
.J
Digitized by Coogle
qt AN ILLUSTRATION
Ptoldmy. Tycho. Hml. Flamft.
Lyra The Harp JO 11 27 21
Cylinus., Gallina The Swan 19 18 47 81
Ca 1epea The Lady in her Chair I3 26 37 55
t Perfeus Perfeus 29 29 .46 59
Auriga The Waggoner 14 9 40 66
Serpentarius, Ophincus Serpentarius 29 IS 40 74
Sc;rpens The Serpent 18 13 22 64
j'.
Sagitta The Arrow 5 5 5 18
Aquila, Yultur The Eagle
} 15
12 23
Antinous Antinous 3 19 71
Delphinus The Dolphin 10 10 14 18
Equulus, Equifieli'o Horfe's Head 4 4 6 10
Pegafus Equus Flying Horfe 20 19 as 89
Andromeda Andromeda 23 2a 47 66
Triangulum The Triangle 4 4 12 16
Aries · The Ram J8 21 27 66
Taurus The Bull 44 43 51 141·
Gemini .The Twins 25 26 as ss
Cancer The Crab 23 15 29 SJ
Leo The Lion
} ·ao 49 95
Coma Berenices . Berenice's Hair 35 14 21' 43
Virgo'! The Virgin 32 3a so 110
Libra, Che/4 The Scales 17 10 20 51
Scorpios The Scorpion 24 10 20 44
Sagittarius The Archer 31 14 22 69
Capricornus The Goat 28 28 29 51
Aquarius The Water-bearer +5 41 47 108
Pifees The Fillies 38 36 39 113
Cetus The Whale 22 21 45 97
Orion Orion as 42 62 78
Eridanus, Flu'Vius Eridanns, the River 34 10 27 84
Lepus The Hare 12 I3 16 19
Canis major Great Dog 29 . 13 2I al
Canis minor Little Dog 2 2 1J 14
Argo The Ship 45 3 4 64
Hydra Hydra 27 19 3I 6o
Crater The Cup 7 3 10 ar
Corvus The Crow 7 4 9
Centaurus Centaur 37 35
Lupus The Wolf 19 24
Ara The Altar 7 9
Corona Auftralis Southern Crown 13 12
P.ifces Auftralis Southern Fi1h 18 24
The
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 93
The NEW SOUTHERN CONSTELLATIONS.
Columba Naochi
Robur Carolinum
Grus
Phcenix
Indus
Pavo
Apus, Avis Indico
Apis, Mufta
ChamreJion
Triangulum Aoftralis
Pifcis volans, Pajftr
Dorado, Xi'phias
Toucan
Hydrus
Noah's Dove
The Royal Oak
The Crane
The Phenix
The Indian
The Peacock
The Bird of Paradife
The Bee or Fly
The Carnelion
South Triangle
Flying FHh
Sword Filh
American Goofe
Water-Snake
10
12
13
IJ
tz
14
JI
4
10
~
6
9
IO
HEVELIUS's CONSTELLATIONS made out of the unformed Stars.
Lynx
Leo minor
Afteron & Chara
Cerberus
Vulpecola & Anfer
Scutum Sobiefki
Lacerta
Cameleopardalus
Monoceros
Sextans
The Lynx
The Little Lioo
The Greyhounds
Cerberus
The Fox and Goofe
Sobielki's Shield
Lizard
Cameleopard
Unicorn
Sextant
Hevel. Flamft.
19 44
2J
4
27
7
32
19
Il
53
25
35
Thefe conftellations, or groupes of fixed fiars, have doubtlefs their
diftinCt energy and inflence in the operations of nature; although we
have not means fufficient to diftinguilh them all, according to their
peculiar virtues. The nearer they are fituated to the ecliptic line, and
the zodiac. fo much the apter are they to operate in the common acts
of nature; and fo much the m,pre eafily allured into the opportunities
of our acquaintance. Of the firft magnitude we ·have extraordinary in..
fiances of that fiar in Leo, called Cor Leoni's, in twenty-five degrees of the
fign, to be of the nature of Mars and Jupiter mixed together .; and is a
ftar greatly contributing to noble qualifications, and kingly favour. Fa-
mous alfo is the knowledge of Spica Pi'rginis, a ftar of Virgo by conftella-
tion, but in thefign Libra: this ftar partakes both of the nature ofVenus
and Mars, and contributes greatly to ecclefiaftical preferments. After
thefe are very well known the ftars called .4/Jeoarr;n in Gemini, and
· J!ntare1
/
Digitized by Coogle
I
94 AN ILLUSTRATION
Antares in Sagittary, both ftars of the nature of Mars, provoking to
courage and magnani'mity, but inclining to violence and cruelty. Of
the fecond magnitude are the ·South Balanct, and the Head qf Pollux,
both ftars of a furious and violent nature. Of the third rnagnitud~,
the Head qfMedtiftl, or Algol, is famous for its mifchievous inclinations ;
and fo are the two 4/fes, ftars of the fourth magnitude. Of the fifth
magnitude are the Pleiades, ftars of remarkable influence, and celebrated
for their fweet and benevolent nature. Stars of the fixth magnitude
are very fmall ; yet, notwjthll:anding this, they are 'not withuut their
operations upon earthly things ; as in the breafi: of the Crab, called
Prteflpe, are feveral little ftars which appear only like a white cloud,
and yet the force of this confte1lation has been often felt in the affairs
of mankind. Thefe fixed fi:ars alfo often prove thei-r force in the change.
of weather, as they happen to riie, culminate, or fet, with the fun,
moon, and planets.
But the conftellations which form the twelve figns of the zodiac have
obvioufly the moil: powerful and mofr immediate operation upon man;
and the reafon is, becaufe they form the pathway of the fun, moon, and
planets, in all their peregrinations, and thereby receive from them a
more forcible power and energy. And, as thefe .figns 'f.orm a confiderable
part of the Science of Aftrology, we ihall confider .them under all their.
various qualities and atfeBions, both with refped to·their operations upon
man's body and upon the four feaf.ons of the year. Theie figns are
known or dittinguifhed by the following characters : ..
"" Aries !!l5 Cancer ~ Libra IJ:t> Capricornus
~ Taurus .n. Leo nt Scorpio = Aqua-ries
n Gemini 191. Virgo .t Sagittarius * Pifceb"'·
They are placed in this order, and divided. into fo;Pr equal parts, an-
{wering to the four quarters of the year, becaufe the equator cuts and
divides the circle of the zodiac at the point beginning with Aries, and ar
the oppofite point of Libra, dividing the .whole into two equal parts,
confill:ing of fix northern and fix fouthern figos. But the renfon why
the fun's courfe be-gins and is reckoned from Aries is, as tradition in-
forms us, becaufe the fun, when fidl: brought into exill:ence, was
placed in this fign. And this is not an onreafonable conjeCture, fince
the fpring quarter ~begins when the Sun enters Aries, and brings with
it increafe and length of drty.s, ana all nature begins .to .wulti,ply and
flo.urilh, and, as it were, to rite into new life. The fix nor.thern figns
terminate with Virgo, and the .
fix fouthern commence wit)l Libra; but
the northern figns <
have always been c:;Qllfidered of a more etlicac.ious and
noble nature than the fouthern.
Philofophers
Digitized by Coogle
. \
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 9S
Philofophers have alfo affign~d another reafon for this order and di-
vifion of the twelve figns ofthe zodiac, namely, That Nature works by
oppofition and contrariety, and thus brings about the four ftates of all
elementary bodies, viz. generation, confervation, corruption, and anni-
hilation. As therefore generation is the firft ftate, and is produced and
nourHhed by beat, they begin with the fiery flgn Aries. The next
quality being confervation, or durabiHty, they fignify the fame by
placing an earthy fign next in order, fince earth gives permanency and
fixation to corruptible bodies. The third quality being corruptible,
it is reprefented by an airy fign, becaufe air is known to be the fourcc
of putrefaaion. The laO: ftate of an elementary body is its final end,
or diffolution ;· and, as wat~r di1folves all corruptible bodies, fo have
they defcribed it by placing a watery fign the laft of all. In this ar-
rangement of the figns of the zodiac we may further obferve, that two
· paffive principles are placed between two aCl:ivc ones; and, as our all-
wife .Creator hath fo conftructed. nature, that the oppofition of one
thing 1hould occafion the exiftcnce or duration ofa~other, fo we may
obferve it in the divifions of the zodiac ; .for infrance, Aries, a fiery fign,
is placed oppofite to Libra, which is an airy fign; and in all refpects
refembles a man fitting before afire with a pair of bellows in his hands,
blowing to keep it burning: for, without air, fire is foon cxtingui1hed.
In the fame mann~r it is with the water and the earth J but, to make
thefe obfervations more ~pparent, we will arrange the figns of the zodiac
under all their different qualities and forms.
The Divifions of the Twelve S I G N S of the Z 0 D I A C.
Signs oppofitc arc the{¥ ~ u • a tiJt Northern and commanding.
lirft fix to the laft fix: 6 "1. .t J:t =M Soutnocn and obeying.
They are divided alfo accordingl~ie~~ ¥a~ ~~~an~ddry.
to their four 'Triplicities and A~r Y lS fiJI. Hot and rrft·
N · 1ry n .oo = o an mot •
ature . . Watery a ft1. * Cold and n1oi.O.
Some arc Mafculine, as ¥ u a 6 .t = Fiery and airy, mafculine.
Some are Feminine. as t$ ~ "l nt ,._, M Earthy and watery, feminine.
· Equinoctial ¥ 6 ·
Tropical • "J'
Fixed ;ts a "1. =
Common · u JJA ~ M
Moveable -•~ a • J:l.
No. S· U Thefb
Digitized by Coogle
96 · A N l L -L ·u S T R A T I 0 N
· Theft fighs are termed foeti, CfJ111111011, and mO'Uea/Jie, becaufe, when.
ever the fun is in anyone of them, it anfwers to ·the feafon of the ycu J
the weather being then· either moveable, or fixed ; en- between ltoth.
T
.. h . lfc d" ."d d fSpriilg quarter
.ey are _a 6 lVI e Summer quarter
mto the four qua~-1 Autumn quarter
ters of the year, as i.Winser quat=-
' '
D .
•
#
..
Aries begins the fpring quartet, for which rctfon all the revoluliontl
figures, either for the world or for particular ftttea, arc fet.from she
fun entering the nrll point of the c~uinootial h!D Aries.
- . .
Bicorporal or dcnJble} u
bodied · -1 # t;hc firft part of the fign cnly.
Fruitrul Signs a nt M
Buren o ·a •
.Humane'or courteous D • .. ·=
Muta ligns, or flow of fpcech a 111. K
Feralligns , · · _ ·"- t the laft part only.
Sfgns a( tigh·cor long afcerifioos a n ~ ;a. 1t1 · ·;. ~
Signs of lliort and oblique afcenfions tt :: M cr. ," n
,Signs broken n H
Signs whole '6
- n "t
-
Signs fortunate ¥ D A. 6
., •
Signs unfortunate 1f · a
""'
111. w H
Signs fweet D 6
-
-
Signs bitter CV' A ,
Signs weak cr , .,_,
Signa ftrong 'l. .. -
-
Some figns are controvertible in tbeif nature, according to their
accidental fituation in the heavens. as n and a in the eaft are hoc
. and dry, v and 191. hottith, # cold. and moift, '111 cold and dry. In
the weft u 1!l And "-' are cold and moift, ts cold, t hot and dry.
Thefe qualities are abfolutcly necefi'uy to be obferved in judging of the
weather.
When the moon,, or lord of the afcendant, is pouted, at anativity,
in·any of the figllS we term hot, the native will be manly and visorous, .
· and
~-
Digitized by Coogle
•
.H}Jj!)
•
-
·
Digitized by Coogle
'.
n:;:: NEW YOIIK
PuB.:.JC LIBRARY
ASTOR, LENOX
Tl L!..J E :~ 1· ~.~ U ! · :...~ . i' :,... ~J '",
••
•
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 97
and choler will abound in him 5 but, if any of thofe figna we term cold,
be will then be meek, womani!h, and effeminate; all which atfcClions
proceed from phlegm.
There are figns called quadrupedian, or four-footed, as Y' t~ a t ~.
becaufe thofc c:reatures from whence they lt'e named have four feet ;
and in a nativity, \\'here either of them afcend, they import that the con.
ftitution of the native partakes mueh of the nature of that creature they
reprefent; for inftance, if Aries .afcends, then he will be hot and .dry, and
partake of the qualities of the ram; if Taurus be lord of the afcendant,
he will be furious, as the bull ; if Leo afcend, he will be in net.ure bold
and magnanimous; if Sagittarius, be will be perfc:vering ~d intrepid;
if Capricorn, he will be luftful and libidinous, like the goat. So there
arc figns of humanity, ts u -.. .a:. =, and the firft part of l,; arid in
nativities where any of thefe figns a(ceDd, or in which ~he lord of the
afcendaat is placed, it fignifies that the native is oft fi'ieMly difpofition.
humane, affable, and courteous; of an excellent carriage, and engaging
behaviour. .Again, fome figns are called fruitful, as !!IS nt. )( ; ·and, if
the afcendant or hia lord, or the moon, be placed in any one of thefe, or
if the eufp of the fifth houfe has one of ~hefe upon it, or if his lord be
pofited in one of them, the native will have many children, or wiU be
of a prolific conftitution; .but, if ·barren figns poffefs the aforefaid places,
then, according to the plain courfe of nature, fierility and barrennefs
will follow. There are alfo fome figns termed mute, as s "l X. If
any of thefc afcend in a nativity, and 'Mercury, who is the general fig..
nificator of fpeech, be affliCted by the pJanet Saturn and lhe Dragon's
Tail in an evil houfe of heaven, and fhe afcendant alfo vitiated, the na..
tive will be born dumb ; if Mercury be free, and the afcendant only
affiieted, or if the afcendant be free, and Mercury affiieted, the native
~ill be g~n.era1Iy filent, and flow of fpeec.h. B?t, iffigns of voic7 ~fcend
·. lil a nativity, as u 1IJl. a t :::~, the nahve will po1fefs a volub1hty of
·.fpccch, and be a good orator. Again, fome figns are feral, i. e. brutilh,
·or favagc; fuch are ·&\. and the laft part of Sagittarius. Some arc .
termed hoarfe, or whiftl.lng, as T l:S st. ~; and whenever Leo, or the'
laft part of Sagittarius, aicend in a nativity, the native will be brutiilily
inclined, and poffefs an unfeeling and cruel difpofition. Thofe perfons,
in whofc nativity T l:S &\. ~ are horofcopicaJ, .have a conftant hoarfe-
nefs or whiftling in their delivery and fpecch, though otherwife quick
and folublc enoug~; andlhofe perfons are generally crooked, deformed,
or imperfeCtly born, who have ts. afcending, and Caput Algol pofited
in the afcendant. -
Thero arc alfo degrees which are termed mafculine, feminine, light,
dark, fmoky, pitted, azimene or deficient, and increating fortune ;
thefc are all exhibited at one view in the following table. :
A TABLE
Digiti ed by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE exhibiting the AFFECTIONS and SIGNIFICATIONS ol the
DEGREES in each SIGN of the ZoDIAC.
il a'~ s·oa ~ "ri
::O::l ;i'fl a a
g .•
..
; ~.¥ :;'a~ ~.f.~ l?i
1- 8'I'S---g 8 20 --;-t---:--;;- 6 11 t6 0 19
¥ ~ __!!_ _ 2
_9_ ~ ~ ~l-.:.
2~
3 ...:29z_.17-::-c;-l·-:;-;-::-ll
; - I I. Zl ) 17 1 r; 3 , O U · ) U 6 1 8 327
15
lS 30 ~+ 28 ~ ~ __.:Z:.1+'=-2::.:.;~5'--II-"-9_I_o-l~-----,.-
- . r6 s 22 ~ 1 0 16 2 12 17
n z6 ~ 22 .21_ ~ z63o
~ ....-;;- 8 12 12 2. 18 12 17 23 9 10 II
0 · II
I 2 J
.f. IS
a 23 30 .27 28 lof. 0 JO 26 JO 12 IJ
1-,~--~-~~~+~·~s~•-----
---~ 25" 61315 1827 257
&l. S 15 8 3o 10 zo 22 23 23 28 19
JO _!L -l--::-__;:_~-1·---1---
- - 8 8 .s 10 8 13 16 3 I+
..;, ·IZ 16 .-o 22 :Z7 21 2Z 0 2o
-.... JO ~ ~~- _:....,_i----1•---
---;;- . I' s 18 10 17 3 IS
6 5 ..s 2'7 21 o 30 20 30 . o 21
30 .o:7 -£.---- --=--;~.t--~-t-.=..:..;:-
- -..-
. 17 -rT" 8 I 1 2+ 14 ·9 Io 22 . 19 7 18
1'1. .J2.....; _!1_ -2!._ 30 - _!2._ 2J 27 ,____2_8~. 2<> .
-:- 2 .12 · 5 9 19 u 2J o 7 12 IS I 7 8 ., 21)..
+ 10 ' 2&. 30 2of. 27 30 18 Jn
1- ~~- 1 - -!-'-__..;...-__ "2.
If 10 7 22 IS 2) 7 17 22 :z6 27 u IJ
~ ~ ~ ~ .-3!!- 2+ 29 28 29 l.f. ~
_ . 5 n 15 zs · 9 21 ~
· zs 1 1:1 17 18 19 7 rtt
.:::_ 2:/_ ~ ~ J _+_ -- 2:& 2+ 29 17 20 '
)( 1023 20 u2:z .6'18 0 :zs + 9:&+ 0 1 •~
.·
30 · :z8 . 28 Jo :&7 28 J
· In th~ firft column againft ¥ you find 8. 15. go~ under the column of
mafculine degrees ; and under the column of ferninine, you have 9· 22,
·Which fuews that the firft eight degrees of Y af'e mafcuJine1 -ttnd the
ninth degree feminine; from 9 to 15 are mafculine, and from 15 to 22
feminine ; and from 22 to 30 are maiculine. The ufe of which is; that. if
the principal fignificator in a nativity be pofited in the degrees and .figns
rnafculine, be the native male or female, it argues, that be or 1he lhall
inherit a more mafculine temper and refolution than ordinary. But, if
the fignificator be in. feminine figns and degrees, then the native will be
more effeminate, timid, and lefs robuft. The fame obfervation holds
good with refpett to the other figns and degrees, as in the table they
ftand direCled. The fourth column points out that there are certain de-
grees in each fign; which are termed light; and, if either of thefe afcend
2 io
Digitized by Coogle
'
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 99
in a nativity, the native will be of a fairer and clearer complexion than
ordinary. The fifth column lhews that there are degrees termed dark or
olfcure; and, whenever thefe happen to be horofcopical in a nativity, they
declare the native to be of a.dark or fallow complexion, and, if he lhould
be bor.n deformed, his d~formity will be confiderably greater. The fixth
column thews which degrees of the zodiac are called Jmoky; and, if any
of them arife on the eall:ern fineter at the .time of birth, they declare the
native of a mixed complexion, neither fair nor fwarthy, but partaking of-
both ; and .fimilar to his complexion will be his underftanding. The
feventh column lhews which of the degrees of the zodiac are called void;
and, if the afcendant in the radix of any nativity be pofited in them, it
del~res an imbecility in the judgment and underftanding of the native;
and, the farther he enters into converfation or bufinefs, the more obvious
will this defeCt appear. The eighth column points out what degrees in
each of the twelve figns are called deep and pitted; and the(e, in a nativity,
fignify, that if the afcendant, his lord, or the moon. be fitu.ated in any of
them, the native will be of a hafty and imperfeCt fpeech, incapa~le of ex-
preffing his defi.res, o.r .of ~eclaring h_
is fentiments; a.nd will be ~Iway~ in-
Yolved in vexatious httgatwns and d1fputes ; and, like a man 1n a prt or
fnare, will want tbe affiftance of another to help him out. The ninth
column difiinguifi1es the azimene, lame, or dffici'ent, degrees; and, if in a
nativity any one of thefe afcend, or the lord of the afcendant, or the moon,
be in any ·of them, the n:atiyc will be crooked, lame, or deformed, or in
fome manner vitiated in ~he member or part of the body that the fign
governs in w~ich fuch a~imet~e degrees ~all happen to. be. This rule
is ·fo unexcepuonable and mvanable; that 1t ought to be V{ell confidered
in the judgment of every nativity. The ten~h column points out all the
degrees in the twelve figns that are augmentors or increafers of fortune;
and the knowledge to be derived from them is, that if, in a nativity,~the
cufp of t~e fecond houfe, o~ lord of the fe~~nd, Jupiter, or part of for-
tune.. be 10 degrees augment1ng, they 'hen 'f:.-come arguments of much
wealth ; and prefage that the native lhall, according to his capacity or
fituation iR life, attain to ftill greater hoo(i)ur, riches, and preferment.
But, befides thefe general -properties, each of the figns polfefs a parti-
cular efficacy and··virtue peculiar to themfelves, or to that part of the hea-
vens wherein they bear .rule. For, as upon earth all ground will oot
bring forth the fame fq~it, fo in the heavens all places or parts thereof
~ill not produc~ the fattl'\, effecl:s. Upon the earth, a man in his _journey
rtdes over ten m1ks, mQre or lefs, upon the fands; at ~mother tune, ·he
traces over as many miles more upon the clay; and, after that, he pro-
c~eds on another ten miles upon the marl and gravel. Similar to this,
by the moft correa obfcrvation, appears ~0 be the alternate variations of
No.5· X the
1oo A N · I L L U -S T R A T I 0 N
the heavenly matter. This we £hall render apparent, by examining the.
different and difiinct qualities of every fign throughout all the degrees of
the zodiac. And fidl:
Of ARIES, ..,. •
~his fign, obfervation and experience both inform us, is hot and
dry, like a high gravelly or fandy ground; and, when this fign afcends
at a birth, or if the fun or moon be·pofited in it, it ufually contributes
unto the native a dry body, Jean and fpare, firoog anq large bones and
limbs, piercing eyes, a fwarthy or fallow complexion, and (andy-co-
loured or red hair, and inclines him to be choleric, brutal, violent, and
intemperate; that is, this fi~n na-turally produces thefe effed:s. But, if
the phnets Jupiter or Venus be in the afcendant, or in this fign, it very
materially alters both the confiitution and complexion of the native for
the better; but, if Saturn or Mars·be pofited there, theri it is altered
confiderably· for the worfe *· For, as fome land will bear wheat, and
other land only rye, and yet, by adding compoft to it, or by ordering it
accordingly, the nature of the mold may oft~ntimes 'be changed, and
made to bring forth fruit contrary to its own nature :-juft the -fame it
is when the planets, or their afpects, fall ftrongly into a fign; they quite
change its nature and effed:; but,· if none of thefe happen, then the lign
Aries, and the reft, unalterably purfue their own nature.
Aries is an equinoctial~ cardinal, diurnal. moveable, fiery, choleric,
hot and dry, luxurious, violent, fign; eaftern, and of the fiery triplicity. ·
It is the day·houfe of Mars, and confifts of twelve ftars. The difeafes
_.,/"'produced by this fign are the fmaJJ-pox and falling ficknefs, apoplexies,
/ head-ach, megrims, baldnefs, and all difeafes of the head and face, hair-
lips, ring-worms, meafles, fevers, convulfions, and the dead palfy.-
The regions over which Aries pretides, are England, France, Baftarnea,
Syria, Palefiine, the Upper Burgundy, Germany, Switzerland, the Up-
per Silefia, the Le1fer Poland, Denmark, and Judea; the cities of Napies,
Capua, Ancova, lmolia, Ferrara, Florence, Verona, Lindavia, Brunf-
wick, Craconia, Marfeilles, Sarago1fa, Barganum, ~~farea, Padua, Au-
gufta, and Utrecht. In man, it governs the head and face; and the
colour it rules is white mixed with red.
T A' U R U S, ti •
Taurus differs greatly fr~m the preceding fign, being in natur·e cold
and dry, as if out of a hot and fandy foil a man were on a fudden to
enter into a cold deep clay country. If this fign afcends at a birth, or is
• See DoCl:. ofNat. lib. i. cap. 10. feel. 1.
2 pofited
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. lOI
pofited in the fun or moon's place, it ufually renders a perfon with a
broad brow, thick lips, dark curling hair, of qualities fomewhat brutal
and unfeeling; melancholy, and flow to anger; but, vvhen once enraged,
violent and furious, and difficult to be appeafed. Hence it follows· that
this is an earthy, cold, dry, melancholy, feminine, fixed, noCturnal,
_fign; fouthern, and of the earthy triplicity; the night-houfe ofVenus ;
and contains twenty-three ftars. The difeafes incident to this fign are,
cold and dry melancholic habits, fluxes of rheum, wens in the neck, fore
throats, king's-evil, quinfeys, and confumptions. The regions over
which it prefides are, Perfia, Media, Parthia, Cyprus, the iflands of the
Archipelago,. the Leifer Afia, White Ruffia, the Greater Poland, Ireland,
Lorraine, Helvetia, Rhetica, Franconia, and Switzerland; with the cities
of Mantua, Borronia, Parma, Sens, Terentia, Bythinia, Panorum, Heri-
opolis, Leipfic, and Nantz. In man, it governs the neck and throat;
and the colour h rules is red mixed ~ith citron.
G E M I N I, D.
Gemini is in nature hot and moift, like a fat and rich foil ; and pco- ·
duces a native fair and tall, of ftraight body and fanguine eomplex~on,
rather dark than clear; the arms long, but oftentimes the hands and feet
1hort and flefuy: the hair and eyes generally a dark hazle, of perfeCt
fight, and lively wanton look, the underftan~ing found, and judicious
in worldly affairs. Gemini is defined an airy, hot, moifi, fanguine,
double-bodied, mafculine, diurnal, weA:ern, fign, of the airy triplicity• .
It is the day·-houfe of Mercury; and confifis of eighteen fixed fiars.
The difeafes.produced by this fign are, all the infirmities of the arms,
thoulders, and hands, phrenzy-fevers, corrupt blood, fraBures, and dif...
orders in the brain. The regions over which it prefides are, the weft
and fouth weft of England, Brabant, Flanders, America, Lombardy,•
Sardinia, and Wittembergia; the cities of London, Mentz,. Corduba,
Bruges, Hasford, Norringberg, Louvaine, Mogontia, and Verfailles.
In man be governs the hands, arms, and thoulders; and rules all mixed
red and white colours.
CAN C E R, e.
This fign, like a watery moorilh land, is by nature cold and moift;
and, when it afcends at the time of birth, it yields a native fair and pale,
of a lhort and fmall ftature, the upper part of the body generally large,
with a round face, brown hair, and grey eyes ; of qualities phlegmatic
and heavy, effeminate conftitution, and finall voice; if a woman, inclin-
ed to have many children. Cancer is the only houfe of the moon, and
li
oigitizedbyGoogle -
1o2 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
·. is-the fir_~ fign of the watery or northern triplicity ; ' it is a watery, cold,
moifi, phlegmatic, feminine, nocturnal, moveable, fruitful, folfi:icial,
fign ; and comprehends nine fixed fiars. Peculiar to this fign are all. dif.
orders of the breall: and ll:omach, pleurifies, indigeftion, lhortnefs ·of
breath, want of appetite, cancers, coughs, phthi.fics, dropfies, furfeits,
impofihnmes, afihmas, and confumptions. The regions which are
more immediately under the government ofthis fign, are Scotland, Hol-
land, Zealand, Gre:nada, Burgundy, Numidia, Africa, Bythinia, Phrygia,
Cholcis, and Carthage ; together with the cities of Conftantinople, Tu-
nis.. York, St. Andrew·s, Venice, Algiers, Genoa, Amfterdam, Mag-
denburg, Cadiz, St. Lucia, and New.!York. In man, it governs the
breaft, ribs, lungs, liver, pleura, and ventricle of the ftomacq; and the
colour it rules is green and rufiet.
L E 0, n.
Leo ts the only houfe 'or the fun, by nature fiery, .hot, dry, mafculine,
choleric, barren, and ·commanding; eaftern, and of the fiery triplicity i
and claims twenty-feven of the fixed ftars. When this fign afcends in
a nativity, itdenotes that the nativ.e will be -of a large mafculine body,
broad lhoulders, and aufiere countenance ; dark or yellowilh hair; Jarge
commanding eye, fprightly look, and ftrong voice; the vifage ova), and
ruddy, or fanguine ; a refolute and courageous fpirit, afpiring mind, free
and generous heart, with an open, bold, and courteous, difpofition. It
tnuft however be remarked, that the beginning and middle of this fign
p_roduce all the above facultios in the greateft degree of ftrength ; and'
that, in 1he latter part of the fign, the native will be rather fpare and
thin, with light flaxen hair, and of a weaker conftitution and tempera-
ture. The difeafes produced under Leo, are all the. paffions and affec-
tions of the heart, as convulfions, fwoonings, tremblings, qualms, violent
fevers, plagues, peftilences, fmall-pox, meafles, yellow jaundice, pleu-
rifies, fore eyes, and all difeafes arifing from choler, and all pains in the
back, ribs, and bowels. The provinces under the rule of Leo are, Italy,
the Alps, Silicia, Bohemia, Phcenicia_, Chaldea, part of Turkey, and
Apulia; alfo the cities of Rome, Damafcus, Cremona, Prague, Linzi-
nus, Philadelphia, Syracufe, _ariftol, Crotona, and Ravenna. · In man, it
governs the heart· and back, the vertebra of the neck-, and pericranium.
It ru}~s the colours red and green. '
V I R G 0, '9{.
Virgo is an earthy, cold, dry, barren, feminine, fouthern, notlurna1,
melancholy, fign, of the ea-rthy triplicity, and the houfe and exaltation of
Mercury, confifting of twenty-four fixed ftars. When this fign afcends,
it
~igitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. IOJ
it perfonatea a decent and well-compofed body, flender, and above the
middle ftature, of a ruddy brown complexion, black or dark brown lank
hair, _the vifage !omewhat round, the voice fmall and fluill, a witty and
ingenious mind, fi:udious, but rather unllable; and., if the afcendant be
free from the malevolent afpeBs of Saturn, and this fign afcends with
1\:lercury therein, the perfon who hath them fo fituated at his birth wiJl ·
be an excellent orator. · The particular difeafes of this ftgn, are thofe
produced by worms, wind, and obllruRions; hardnefs of the fpleen, mo-
ther, hypocondriac melancholy, cholic, and iliac paffion. The regions
under the government of Virgo, are Babylon, Mefopotamia, Affyria, A-
chaia, Greece, Croatia, Corintbia, Crete, the Duchy of Athens, part of
Gallia Comata, part of Rhenus and the Lower Silefia; with the cities of
Jerufalem, Corinth, Navarre, Arethium, Brundufium, Padua, Touloufe,
Paris, BafiJ, Cratiflavia, Heidelburg, Sigina, Erphordia, and Lyons. In
man it governs the belly, bowels, fpleen, omentum, navel, and dia-
phragm ; and it rules the colour-black.fpeckled with blue.
L I B R A, rill.·
Libra is a fign aerial, fanguine; hot, and moill, ,dquinod:ial, cardinal,
moveabte, mafculine, weflern, diurnal, and humane; the day-houfe of Ve-·
nus, of tile airy triplicity, and confift:s of eight ftars. At a birth it pro-
duces one of a tall, ftrait, and well-made, oody ; of a round, lovely, and
beautiful, vifage, a fine fanguine complexion in youth, but in old age com-
monly brings pimples, or a very deep red colour in the face; the hair yel-
low, or fomewhat tending to flaxen, long and lank, grey eyes, of a cour-
teous friendly difpofition, with a mind juft and upright in all its purfuits.
The difeafes common to this fign are, the ftone, gravel, heat, wind, cho-
lic, and difeafes in the loins, impofi:h\}mes or ulcers in the reins, bladder,
or kidneys; corruption of blood, weaknefs in the· back, and gonorrheas.
The regions under its peculiar fway, are Baftriana, Cafpia, Seres, Oafis,
lEthiopia, -Sabandia, Alfatia, Sundgavia, Livonia, Auftria, Pannonia, Por-
tugal, and the Dukedom of Savoy. Alfo . the cities of Liibon, Spria,
Placentia, Lauday, Frielbury, Heilborn, Antwerp, Frankfort, Vienna,
Olyfiponis, Arafatum, Cajeta, Charles-Town, Sudfa, Argentum, Velk-
kirchium, aud Halafrifinga. In man it govern~ the reins, kidneys, and
bladder; and the colours under its rule are black, darkcrimfon, or tawney.
S C 0 R P I 0, trt·
Scorpio is a moift, cold, phlegmatic, feminine, noaurna1, fixed,
northern, fign ; the night-houfe and joy of Mars, and is of the watery
trigon; and includes twelve ftars. It gives a fhong, robuft, corpulent,
No. 5· Y IDody,,
oigiti~ed by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
body, of middle ftature, broad vifage~ brown complexion, and brown
curling hair; an hairy body, filort neck, and lhort thick legs, quick ia
bodily motion, but referved and thoughtful in converfation. The dif.
,eafes incident to Scorpio, are the ftone and gravel in the bladder, itrangu·
ary, and other imperfeaions in the ~rinal paffage; ruptures, fiftuJas, he-
morrhoids, venereal difeafe, running in the reins, priapifms, fcurvy, and
piles. It bears rule over the regions of Matragonitida, Commagepa, Cap-
padocia, Judea, Idumea, Mauritania, Getulia, Catalonia, Norwegia, the
Weft Silefia, and the Upper Bavaria, the kingdom of Fez, and Barbary;
together with the citi~s of Algiers, Valentia, J'rapizuntia, Aquila, Pof-
toria, Camerinum, Petavium, Meffina, Vienna of the Allobroges, Ge-
d~ndum, Crema, Ariminum, and Frankfort upon Oder. In man it go-
'verns the privities,· feminal vetfels, groin, bladder, and fundament i. and
prefers a brown colour•
. S A G I T T A R I U 8, t •
Sagittarius is afiery, hot, dry, mafculine, diurnal, eaftern, common, hi..
corporal, fign, of the fiery trigon; the houfe and joy of Jupiter; contain-
ing thirty-one ftars. At a birth ·it endows the native with a well-fanned ·
body, rather above the middle ftature; with an handfome com~ly couJJ...
tenance, a vifage fomewhat long, ruddy. complexion, chefnut-coloured
hair, but fuhjett to baldnefs; the body ftrong, adive, and generally makes
a good horfeman; ftout-hearted, intrepid,. and carelefs of danger. Th~
difeafes proper to this fign, are the fciatica, windy gout§, running {Qres,
heat of the blood, peftilential fevers, and diforders produced by intem.-
peratenefs, and falls from horfes. Tlie regions under its government ,.re
thofe of Arabia Felix, Tyrrhenia, Celtic~, Hifpaniob, Dalmati~, Sc;l'.f.-
vonia, Hungaria; Moravia, Mifnia, Provincia, Lyguria•. and Spain; th4
cities of Toledo, Mutina, Narbonne, Avignoo, Cologn..e, AgrippiQa,
Stutgardia, Rottemburgus, Cullen, Tuberinum Indcmburges, and Buda.
In man it governs the thighs,· hips, and os f~crum, ~nd rules tbe yeUow
green colour, tending to red.
C A P R I C 0 R N,. "-'•
CapricQrn is an earthy, cold, dry, m.
elancho)y, feminine, Jlocturna·J,
. moveable, cardinal, follHcial, domefiic, fouthern, quadrupedian, fign,
of the earthy triP.licity, the houfe of Saturn, and exaltation of Mars; and
contains twenty-~ight ftars. When this fign governs a nativity, it pro- .
duces a flender ftature, of a dry conftit~tit>n, Jon& thin vifagQ, fmall
beara, dark hair, long neck, and narrow chin and breafl; with a dif-
pofition colleCled, witty, and fubtle. Th~ difeefes pccc.lliar to Cltpri-
corn, are the gout, fprains, fraCtures, di11ocations, leprofy, itch, fcabs.,
and ··
Digitized by GoogI.e
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
;•A• a:ll di(ea{¢s of mdanclaoiy, ud hy.ftedcs.. The rcgians ever which it
bears fway, are tkofe of India, Ariana, Ma.oedooia. IHyria, Thr.;.aci.a, Bof~·
nia, Mexi-co, Bulga.ria, GI'!Cece, Mufcovy., Lithuania, Saxony, Morea., tho
Orca<ks, Stiria, Romaodiola, Marchia, Hel.iia, Teringia, and Albany.
Likewife the cities of Ju1iacum, Chevoaia, Berga, Mecklinbcrg, Gau-
danum, Vilna, Oxford, Brandenburgh, Augafi:a, Contlantia, Derrbona,
Fev.tntra, Fortona, and Pratum. In man it governs the bees .and hams ;..
and rules ·the :black or ciark browa colour.
A Q._U A R I E' S, -
-·
Aquaries is an hairy, hot, moift, rational, fixed, humane, diurnal, fan-
guine, mafculine, wefi:ern, fign; of the airy triplicity; the day-houfe ot
Saturn, and comprehends, in its degrees of the zodiac, twenty-four fiars.
In a nativity, it denotes a perfon of well-fet, thick, robuft, firoog, body,
long vifage, and pale delicate countenance; clear fan·guine complexion,
with bright fandy or dark flaxen hair. The difeafes common to this fign
are, lamenefs and'bruifes in the andes, fraCl:ures anddiflocations, corrup-
tion and putrefaction of the blood, gouts, cramps, a~~atifms. The.
regions under its government are, O:xiana, Sogdiana, ~the D~erts of Ara-
bia Petrea, Azania, Sarmatia, Great Tartary, Wallachia, Red'R.ufiia, Da-
nia, the fouth part of Sweden, Weftphalia, Moffelani, Pedemantum, part
of Bavaria, Croatia, Germany, and Mufcovy; with the cities of Hamburgh,
Breva, Montferrat, Trent, Pifaurum in Italy, Salifuurgus, lngolftadius,
Forum, Sempronium, and Bremen. In man it governs the legs and an-
~les i and rules the 1ky-colour, or blue.
P I S C E S:. *. I
Pifces is a watery, cold, moift, fe ninine, phlegmatic, nodurnal, com-
mon, bicorporal, northern, idle, effeminate, fickly, fruitful, fign, of the
watery triplicity, the houfe of Jupiter, and the exaltation of Venus ; and
confifts of twenty-four ftars. It produces;! native ofa lhort ftature, pale
complexion, thick fhoulders, brown hair, of a flelhy body, not very up-
right i round-fhouldered, with an incurvating of the head. The difeafes
produced by this fign, are gouts, lamenefs, and pains incident to the feet ;
fait phlt'gm, biles, pimples, and ulcers proceeding from putrified blood;
alfo all cold and moifr difeafes. The regions it governs are Phazonia,
N azomontidis, Garmatia, Lydia, Pamphilia, Silefia, Calabria, Portugal,
Normandy, Galicia, Lufitania, Egypt, Garomentus; and the cities of
Alexandria, Sibilia or Hyfpalis Componella, Parantium, Rhotomagum,
Normatia~ Ruilbonne, and Rhemes. In man it governs the feet and toes,
nd prefideiover the pure white colour.
2 It
Digitized by Coogle
to6 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
It may perhaps be thought, by fame of my readers,- that tbe foregoing
influences, attributed to the twelve figns of the zodiac, are merely con-
jeCtural and imaginary. But the artift, who~ver he be, that bas the
good fenfe · to determine for himfelf, by the ftandard of experience and
obfervation only, will carefully attend to all that has been ftated, as the
particular effeH and virtue of each refpeaive figo. For, wi_thout an
mtimate acquaintance with them, no correCt judgment can be formed
upon any nativity; but, on the contrary, if the foregoing are ftriaty at-
tended to,_ no one who tries them will ever find an error in his calculations.
Collfiderations
DigitizedbyGO gle
. 0 F A S T R 0 L '0 G Y.
ConfideratiOI)S on the Natural Properties, Influences, and Etfeas, of the
SUN, M 0 0 N, and PLANETS. .
T HE importance of thefe celefiial luminaries in the fcale of Nature,
and the force of their operations upon the animal and vegetable
fyfiems, require that they thould be thoroughly invefiigated, and their
properties well underfiood, before any advances are made in calculating
nativities, or refolving horary quefiions. We thall begin with Saturn,.
the moO: remote of the fuperior planets, and confider them individually,
in the following order :
Saturn
Jupiter I Ma_
rs l J
Luna »
And the central Sun 0 •
Venus
Mercury
t
If
There are alfo other charaflers which we lhall have oc~afion to fpeak
of. The Dragon's He~d g., the Dragon's Tail ~, and the Part of
Fortune ~. And .6rft,
Of S A T U R N, JJ.
Saturn is the moO: fupreme, or moft elevated, of a_ll the planets, being _
placed between Jupiter and the firmament, at about feven hundred and-
eighty millions of miles from the fun. It travels in its orb at the rate of
eighteen thoufand miles every hour.- and performs its annual revolution
round the fun in twenty-nine years, one hundred and fixty-feven days.
and five hours, of our time; which makes only one year to that planet.
And, though it appears to us no larger than a ftar of the third magnitude.
yet its diameter is found to be no lefs than fixty-feven thoufand .Englith
miles; and confequently near fix hundred times as big as the earth ! This
planet is furrounded by a thin broad ring, fomewhat refembling the ho-
rizon of an artifi<;ial globe ; and it appears double when feen through a
good telefcope. It is inclined thirty degrees to the ecliptic, and is about
twenty-one thoufand miles in breadth ; which is equal to its difiance
from Saturn on all fides. There is reafon to believe that the ring turns
round its axis, becaufe, when it is almoft edge-ways to us, it appears feme-
what thicker on one fide of the planet than on the other; and the thickeft.
edge has been feen on different fides at different times. But, Saturn ~av­
ing no vifible fpots on his body, whereby to determine the time of his
turning round his axis, the length of his days and nights and the pofition
of his axis are wholly unknown to us. He has two degrees forty-eight
minutes north, and two degrees forty-nine minutes iouth, latitud~. He
No. S• Z is
oigi.ized by Coogle
Io8 · AN ILLUSTR.ATION
· is retrograde one hundred and forty days, and ftationary five days b-
efore
and five days after his retrogradation. ·
Saturn is in nature col<l and dry, occafioned by his being fo far re-
moved from the heat of the fun ;· abounds in moift vapours~ and is a me-
lancholy, earthy, mafculine, folitary, diurnal, malevolent, planet; and
the greater infortune. His effe8s, when lord of the afcendant, or prin-
cipal ruler of a natiyity, with all his qualities, are as follow: he produces
a middle fiature, with a dark, fwarthy, or pale, complexion, fmallleer-
ing black eyes, brqad forehead, lean face, lowering brow, thick nofe
and lips, large ears, black ·or brown hair, broad ilioulders, thin beard,
with fmall lean thighs and legs. If this planet is well dignified at the
tim'e of birth, the native will be of an acute and penetrating imagination;
in his conduct, au(tere; in words, referved ; in fpeaking and giving, very
fpare j in labour, patient; in arguing or difputing, grave; in obtaining
the goods of this life, ftudious and -felicitous; in his attachments, either
to wife or friend, conftant and unequivocal; in prc:judice or refentment,
rigid and inexorable. But, if this planet be ill dignified at the time of
birth, the native will be naturally fordid, envious, covetous, miftruftful,
cowardly, O.uggith, out~ardly di1fembling, falfe, ftubborn, malicious,
and perpetually diffatisfied with himfelf, and .with all about him. When
Saturn is oriental, the human ftature will be lhorter than ufua), and, when
occidental, thin, kan, and Jefs hairy. If his latitude be north, the na-
tive will be hairy and corpulent ; if without any latitude, he will be of
large bones and ·mufcl'es; and, if metidional, fat, fmooth, and fte(hy ; in
his firft ftation, ftrong and well-favoured ; and, in his fecond ftation,
weak and ill-favoured. Thefe remarks likewife hold good with refpect
to all the other planets. It is aJfo to be remarked, that, when Saturn is
fignificator of travelling, be betokens long and laborious journeys, peril-
ous adventures, and dangerous imprifonment. Saturn governs the fpleen,
right ear, bones, teeth, joints, and retentive faculty, in man; and rules
every thing bitter, lharp, or acrid. His government and effects in all
other refpeEls are as follow: _
Difla.fes under Saturn.-All melancholy and nervous affedions, quartan
agnes, falling ficknefs, black jaundice, tooth-ach, leprofy, defluxions,
fiftulas, pains in the limbs and joints, gout, rheumatifm, hemorrhoids,
deafnefs, infanity, palfy, confumption, dropfy, chin-cough, fraCtures,
apoplexies, and all phlegmatic humours ; and, in conceptions, he rules
the firft and the eighth months.
Heros and plaJZts untkr Saturn.-Barley, fumatory, beech-tree, bifoil,
birdsfoot, biftort, buckthorn plantane, vervane, fpinach, bcarsfoot, wolf-
bane,
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A s· T R 0 L 0 G Y.
bane, fern, fage, box, poppy, angelica, tamarind, capers, rue, willow,
yew-tr~e, cyprefs-tree, hemp, pine-tree, wild campions, pilewort, c)ea..
vers, cloy.rns woundwort, comfrey, cudweed, cro1fwort, darnel, dodder,
epithymurn, elm-tree, ofmond royal, ftea.wort, ftix-weed, gout-wort,
1Hnking gladden, winter-green, hound's tongue, hawk-weed, hemlock.
henbane, horfetaiJ, knap-weed, k.not-grafs, medlar, mofs, mullen, night·
1hade, po1ypody, quince, rupture..wort, ruthes, Solomon's feal, yarrow,
cetrach, Saracen's confound, fervice-tree, tamarilk, black.thorn, melan-
choly thiftle, thorowax, tutfan, a£onite, afphodil, agnus callus, ftarwort,
orach, lhepherd's purfe, bltck hellebore, mandrake, opium. · In gather-
ing his herbs, the ancients turned their faces towards the eaft, in his.
planet:Jry hour' when in an angle, and effi!ntially fortifiedI with the moon
applying to him by fextile or trine.
Stones, nutals, 11nd minerals.-The fapphire, and lapis lazuli, or that
frone of which azure is made; likewife all unpolilhed black and blue
ftones 1 the loadftone, tin and lead, and the drofs of all metals.
Animals under Saturn.-The afs, the cat, the hare, moufe, dog, wolf,
bear, elephant, bafilifk, crocodile, fcorpion, adder, ferpenr, toad, hog,
and all cre~ping things produced by putrefatl:ion~ Alfo the tortoife, the
ed, and all kinds of fhell-filh. Among birds, the crow, lapwing, owl,
bat, crane, peacock, thrufh, blackbird, ofirich, and cuckow. .
Wtather and winds.-He brings cloudy, dark, obfcure, weather, with
cold biting winds, and thick, heavy, condenfed, air. Thefe are. his
general · effetl:s ; but the more particular and immediate alterations of
weather produced by this planet are only to· be known by his feveral
pofi tions and afpeCl:s with other planets, fortitudes, and debilities, "''f
which I fuall treat at large in my third book. Saturn delights in the
eaftern quarter of the heaveus, and caufeth the eafiern winds. He is
friendly to Jupiter, Sol_, and Mercury, but at enmity with Mars, Venus,
and the Moon.
'l'riplicity and figns.-He governs the fign Capricorn by night, and
Aquaries by day, and the airy triplicity by day~ Of the weekly days
he rules Saturday, the firft hou~ from fun rifing, and the eighth hour
of the fame day, and the firft hour of Tuefday night.
Regions under Saturn.-Bavaria, Saxony, Stiria, Romandiola, Ravenna,
Conftantia, and Ingoldfiadt. ·
rear.r.-Saturn's greateft.ycar is four hundred and fixty-five; his great
ia fifty-feven; his mean, forty·three and a half; and his leafi, thirty.
The fignification of which, in aftrology, is, that, if a kingdom, city,
· town,
•
Digitized by Coogle
uo A N I L L U S T R. A T I o· N
town, principality, or family, takes its rife when Saturn is e1fentia1Jy
and occidentally ilrong, and well fortif1ed, it is probable the fame will
continue in honour and profperity,. without any material alteration, for
the fpace of four hundred and fixty-fi..Y.e years. Again, if in a nativity
Saturn is well dignified, is lqrd of the .geniture, and not afHicted by any
crofs-afpects, then the native, accord.iog to the common courfe of na-
ture, may live fifty-feven years ; if th'e planet be but meanly dignified,
then the native will not live more th3.!l ·forty-three years; and, if he be
vyeakly dignified, he will not live m~e than thirty years; for the n·a-
ture of. Saturn at befr is cold and dry,· whjch are qualities deftructive to
health and long life in man. ··.
.. .
Orb.-Saturn's orb is nine degrees before and after any afped:; that 'is,
his influence begins to operate; when ei'ther he applies, or any planet ap-
plies to him, within nine degrees of his perfect afpetl; and his influence
continues in force until he is feparated nine degrees from the afpett partial.
JUPITER, ~ •
. Jupiter is the next planet below Saturn, and called the greaterfortune.
He appears to our fight the largeft of any ftar in magnitude except
Venus; and is of a bright refplendent clear afped:. .Modern aftronomers·
.have prove.d him to be four hundred and twenty-fix millions of miles fr9m.
the fun, and above a tboufand times bigger than our earth ; he goes in
his orbit at the aftoni1hing rate of near .twenty-fix thoufand miles an hour,
~nd his diameter Is ~omputed a~ eight~n thoufand Englifu miles, whic_h
ts more than ten umes the diameter of the ·earth. He conpletes h1s
courfe through the twelve figns of the zodiac in eleven years, three hun-
dred and fourteen days, and twelve hours. He is confiderably fwifter
in motion than Saturn; but to us his mean motion is four minutes
fifty-nine feconds; his fwifter motion·fourteen minutes. He has exaltation
in fifteen degrees of Cancer; fuffers detriment in Gemini and Virg9,
and receives his fall in fifteen degrees of Capricorn. His greateft lati-
tude north is one degree thirty-eight minutes ; and his greateft latiti.Uie
fouth one degree and .forty-minutes. He is retrograde one hundred
and twenty day~; and ftationary five days before and four days after his
retrogradation. His orb, or radiation, .is nine degrees before and after
any of his afpects.
Jupiter is a diurnal, mafculirie, planet, temperately hot and moift.
airy ·and fanguine; au thor .of temperance, modefi:y, fobriety, and juf-
-tice. He rules thelua gs, liver, reins, · blood~ digeftive virtue, and n'a..
2 tural
Digitized by Coogle
•
0 F A S ·T R 0 ·L O· G Y. 111
raJ facuhks.of man. Wboo he prefide, over a nativity, he gives ao ereCl
and tall ftature, a bandfome.rofy complexion, an oval vifage, high fore-
head, large grey eyes, foft thick b.rown hair, a well-fet comely body, thort
neck, large wide cheft ; robuft, ftrong and well proportioned thighs and
le&s, with long feet; his fpeech fob.cr and manly, and his c;onverfation
arave aod commanding. And, if ~11 dign~fied at the birth, this planet · '
betokens moft admirable manners and difpofition to the native. . He will
be in general magnanimous, faithful, and prudent, honourably afpiring
af~er high dcferts aftd noble actions, !i lover offair dealing, defiroos of ferv-
ing all men, j ufi:, hooeft, andreligi9us; ofeafy accefs, and· of a1fable man-
. ners and converfation , kind and aft"~Cl:ionate to hia family and frienes 1
charitable and liberal to the utm9ft extent of his abilities; wife, prudent,
and virtuous, hating all mean and fordid aCtions. But, if Jupiter be ill-
dignified, and afllieted with evil a.fpet.la a~ the time of birth, be then be-
tokeDa a profligat~ and carelcfs difpofi,ion, of mean abilities, and fuallow
underftanding J • bigpt in rcliciPJh ~nd oWHnate in maintaining crronc,.
OU$ doClrinee ; abandoned to ¢Vil qompany J eafily fcduccd to folly aod
estr.aYaganco·J a fycophaot to every one above him, and a tyrant in hie
own family. If the planet be oriental at the birth, the native will bo
more fanguine and ruddy, with larger eyes, and more corpulent body,
and genenlly gives a mole or mark upon tbe right foot• If occidental,
· then·it beftootvs a mo£1: fair an& lov4ly C<>mplexion, partic:ularly to a fe;.
male; the ftature fome-hat iliorter, the hair light brown, 9f appt9achin'
ao llaxcn, btU thin round the temples and fqrchcad•
•
Dijiilfls llllMr Jupiter.-All infirmiti¢a of the liver, obftrucuons, plu:..
rifics, apoplcxiee, in1lammation of tA~ ltJngs. infirmitic;s il) the left ear•
.plpitations of the heert, cramps, . ptins i.n Jhc ba.c~, difordera in tbf:
nins, proceeding from corruption, of blQ~; quiafies, windinefs, ;fevers,
:proceedring.lrom a fuP'rabuodim:o Qf bloe>d J. all griefs in the head, pulfo.,
feed; arteries, convulfions, pricking apd OlootiiJg it>. th~ body, and.pu..
trefatl:ion of the humours, In generation," he governs the fecond and the
.Uoth moadla.
. . .
Her!Js andplants~-Agrimony, Alexander, afparagus, aven$, bay-tree,
.e:JciCaropan, beets, betont~ .bCKrag~ bilberriea, ll~ilofs, chervil, colts- ,
foot, fwcet cicely, cinquefoil, alecotl, dandelion, docks, bloo~wort,
quickgraft. ~ndivc.. .buts tQOJbe, hyfop, llverwort, lungwort, fwect-
maudlin, Qak-tree, red rofcs, {age, faucealonc, fcurvy grafs, f-.~cpry,
cherries, lady's-thiftle, ·barberries, ftrawb'erries, liquorice, apples, mul-
.berrice. myrobolaas, olivfl. p~ch~$· pe•r-tree, felt~·heal,·wheat, ·madder,
·maftic:, fupr, hooey, rhubarb, vi<Jlets, pqmegrenate, Qlint, faff'ron, daify,
feYerfew, nutmegs~ gilly-fiowers, mace, cloves, Jlax, bahxb fqm.itGry, wild
· No. 6. . A a and
Digitized by Coogle
•
H!'l A ~ J:··L· L··
u ·s T R A ·r I 0 N ·
.and fweet marjoram, borrage, St. John's wort, almond-tree', hazel, 'ffg,;
··tree, goofeberry-tree, pine-tree, coral-tree, ivy, .and the vine.-Rul~
for gathering, the fame as und~r Saturn. ·
Slonu, mtla!J, and minerals.-The topaz, amethyll, marble, emerald.,
.~hryftal, fapphire, hyacinth, bezoar, and freeftone. Tin~ lead, and
_p~wter. •
Aminals.-The unicom, doe, hart, ftag, o-x, etephant, horfe, lheep,.
·and all domeftic animals, that do not fly the dominion of man.- Alf<t
the whale, dolphin, fea-ferpent, and ~eth-ti1h-. Among birds, ·the eagle,.
ftork, peacock, pheafant, partridge:. flock-dove, fnipe, lark, .&c. - ·
Wtatl;er and winds.-}n.pirer produces pleafant, healthful, -a_od ferene,.
·weather; and governs the north and north-eafi: winds; _
. He is friendly
with Saturn, Sol, Venus, Mercury, and Luna, but af enmity with Mar~
We can Thurfday his day; and he rules on Sunday night·. His infiuenc«
co01men~es an heur· aft-er fun-rife. and he governs t.he firft ho&K aad th~
·eighth. ·
Signs and triplicity.-He rules the celeftial fign Sagittary oy day, and
Pifees by night. The effed: of which is, that if Jupiter be 1ignificator
.in the revolution of any year, by· day, and in Sagittary, be-is fo much th~
more fortified ; and if in Pif~es, in a noEiurnal revolution:, the ei"e& ia
the fame. This obfervation extends to all the other planets. He pre-
ides over the fiery triplicity by night 1 fo that, if Jupiter be in twenty
degrees of Aries, or the tenth degree of Leo, in any diurnah:evolution, he
1hall be accounted peregrine, as not having any dignity therein,. being
neither in his houfe, e:xalt;ttion, term, tripli~it)1, or face ; but in a.noc•
turna/ revolution he would not be- accounted per.cgr.ine, for then he would
have triplicity in both tbefe figns.
Journeys.-When be is fignificator, he denotes pleafant.travelling,. gootl
ftlccefs., fafety, health, and mirth.. . · · . .
Countr"s under Jupittr.-Spaio, Hungary, Babylon, Perfia,.and CulleDr..
· Colours Under Jupiter.-Sea-gr~ea, blue, purple, aih-cotour, a mixed
1ellow and gr"D-·
. , · rears.~Jupiter's greateft y~r is four hundred and twenty-eight J the
-Jo.ngeft-year he gives-is feventy-nine 1 his mean year uforty-five; and hit·
kail y.ear is twelve. - ·
·. MARS·
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A. S T ·a· 0 L . o· 0 Y.
. . M A R S ,....
Mars is next located t~ Jupiter, and is the firll: planet·above the earCll
'And moon's orbit. His diftance from ~c fun is computed at one hun-
. dred and twenty:-five millions of mile' ; and, by travelling at the rate of
forty-feven thonfand miks every hour, he goes round the fun in fix hun~
dred and eighty-fix of our days, and four hours ; which is the cxaa
length of his year, and contains fix hundred and . fixty-feven days and
three q~arters ; · bu~ ev~ry day ~nd night together i~ forty minutes longer
than w!th ns. . H~& diameter IS four thoufand fo.ur hundr_c;d. and forty..
four mJles, wh1ch 1s but a fifth part fo.large as &he earth. He is of. a
deep fiery re~ colour, and by his appulfes to fome of the fixed ftars, feems
to be encompaffed by a very grofs atmofphere. His mean motion is
- thirty-one degrees twenty-fcven min.utes ; and his fwift motion from ,
thirty-two to forty-four minl1tcs. His exahation is in twenty-eight de..
!rees of Capricorn; his fall in twenty-eight d~grecs of Canc~r, and his
tletriment in Libra and .Taurus. His great-eft north-latitude is four ~­
gtees thirty-one minutes ; and his greateft fouth latitude fix degrees for.. .
- ty-feven minutes. He is retrograde eighty days, and ftationary two or
three days before retrogradation, and two days before direction•. I Hii orb
or r~diation is feven degrees before and after any of his. afpects..
. Marsis a mafcqline nocturnal planet. in nature hot and· dry, choleric
and fiery, the.le1fer infortune, author of quarrels, diifentions, ftrife, war~
and battle ; and rules the gall, left ear, he~d, faee, {~ell., imagination,
~ud attractive faculty of m~n. This_planet, prefiding at a birth, render-a
up a ll:rong weu.:.ret body; of £hort ftatu~e, but large. bone_s, rather lean
than fat; a brown ruddy complexion, red, fandy, flaxen, or light brown,
hair, ·round (ace~ tharphazle eyes, confident bold countenance, ad:i.ve and
fearlefs. . If well. dignified,. the ·native will inherit a courageous and in..
vincible difpofition; unfufceptible of fear or danger ; hazarding his life
o.n all occafions, and in_all perils; fubject to no reafon in war or conten-
tion ; unwilling to obey or fubmit to any fuperior; regardlefs of all things
·in comparifon of triumphing over his enemy or antagonift ; and yet pru-
dept in the maqagement and dircCl:ion of his private concerns. If the
·;planet be ill dignified, ·a~d afflicted with crofs afpect&, the party will then
grow up a trumpeter of his own fall;leand c~n{eql.iencc, without decency
or honefty ; a lover of malicious quarrels and -afFrays ; pTone to wicked-
nefs and flaughter, and in danger of committing murder, ·of robbing ori
.the highway, of becoming a thief, traitor, or incendiary; of a turbulent
(pirit, obfcene, ra1h, ~nbuman, and treacherous; fearing neither God nor
man, given up to every fpecies of fraud;·violence, cruelty, and opprcffion.
If the planet be oriental at the nativity, the native will be above the middle
ftatlire, very hairy, and of a clearer complexion. If occidental,.the native
1. will
.,
Digitized by-
Google
(J.f A N . I L L U,S T R A T l 0 N
will be fuort, of a more ruddy complexion, a !mall head, with yellow
flair, and a drf conft~tution. , . .
Difoafls.under Mars. Peftilental fevers, plagues, murrains, tertiac
tgues, m~grims, carbuncles, yellow jaundice, burnings and .fc:aldings,
ringworms, blifters, phrenzy fevers, all hot and feverith complaints in
the head, bloody flux, fiftulas, difea!es of the genitals.. wounds of every
defcription, ftone in the reins and bladder, the difuria, ifcuria, diabetes,
ftranguary, 6nall-pox, lhingles, St. Anthony's fire, choler, and.alJ cho.
leric difea(es, woaads, or bruifes by iron odire, overflowing' of the gall,'
and all eiFeB:s proceeding from intempera~ anger and paffion.
Her/Js andp16nts. Arfc.fmart, affarum, barberry-bu1h, broom, fweet ·
ba61, broom-rape, butchers broom, bramble, brook lime, betony, crow-
foot, ·madder, wake-robin, cranes biiJ, cotton..thiftlo, toad.flu, garlic,
burt-bulb, hawtborft, bops, ·mafterwort,. rocket, muftard, bedge.muftard,
cdione, dittany, carduus beneditlus, radi1h, horfe-radHh, rhubarb, rba.
pbontic. monks rhubarb, tbiftles, woolly tbiftle, ftar-thiftlc. trcacle-muf-
tard, dyers weed, wormwood, birthwort, camelion-thiftl~, danewort, eilue,
cornel-treo, euphorbium, fpear-wort, white hellebore, Cpunge, laurel fteel.
monks-hood, k~ks, kammony, colJoquintida, elaterium, devilsmilk. net-
tles~ ginger, pepper, red fanders, briers, cammoc, horehound, and all
uecs that are prickly and thorny.-Rulc for gathering, the fa~e aa before.
. Stones, metals, and minerals. The bloodllone, loadftone, jafper, touch.-
fiooe, adamant, ametbyft of divers colours; antimony, ftone-C..Jphur,
y.ermillion, white arfenic, &:c• .
Animals. The maftHF, wolf, tyger, cockatrice, panther, and aJI fuch
beafts as are ravenous and wild. Alfo th~ lhark, pike, barble, fork filh,
all ftinging water ferpents, and voracious filh. Of birds, the hawk, kite,
raven~ vulture, owl, cormorant, crow, magpye,· and all J:tirds of prey•
.' . Weather 4nd wind1. Ot Mars proceed thunder and lightning, fiery
meteors, peftilential air, and aU ftrange phenomena in the heaven. He
rule$ the weftern winds s and is friendly with all the pJanet6 except th~
moon. Tuefday is his day ; be rules the firft and the eighth hours, and
Friday nights.
Sign1 and triplicity_. AriC~ Is his day~houfe, and Scorpio his night.
He bears rule .ov.er the watery trigon.· viz. Cancer, Scorpio, ~nd Pifcca. ·
Rtgion1
'
Digitized by Coogle
.
0 F ·A S T · R 0 ·L -
o. -G Y•: ~tJ
Rtgionllltltkr· Mar.r.-Jerufalcm, the· Roman Empire, EYento, Saro.
matia, Lombardy, Batavia, Ferraria, Gotl)land, and the third climlte.
J.ourntys.-In journeys be portends danger of robbery, lo(s of life, and
all the odaer perils attendant upon. the traveller. . . . ·
. Years.-His greateft revolution-year is two hundred and fourteen ; his:
great ·year is fixty-fix; his mean year is forty ; his lcaft year is fifteen.
The M 0 0 N ».
The Moon is next· below Mars, being a fatelJite or at_
tendant ori the
earth, and goes round it from change to change in twenty-nine days twelve
hours and forty-four minutes; and round the fun with it every year. The
moon•s diameter is two thoufand one hundred and eighty miles; and her
diftance from the earth•s centre is two hundred anlJ fatlY thoufand n1ilcs.
She goes round her orbit_
in twenty-fcven days {even hours and forty-three
minutes, moving·about two thoufand two hundred and ninety miles every
hour; and turns round her axis exaCtly in the time that lhe goes round
the earth, which is the reafon of her always keeping the fame fide towardt
us, and that her day and night taken together is as long as our lunar
month. She is an opaque globe, like the earth, and lhines only by ro- .
fleBing the light of the fun ; therefore, whilft that half of her which is
towards the fun -
is enlightened, the other part' muftb~ dark and invifib)e.
_
Hence the difappears when the comes between us and the fun; becaufe her
-dark fide is then towards_us. When the is gone a little way forward, .we
fee a little of her enlightened fide 1 -which Jlill encreafes to our view as
lhe advances forward, until lhc comes to be oppofite the fun, and then her
whole enlig~tened fide is towards the earth, and the appears with a round
'illumined orb, which we call the full moon, .her dark fide ·being theal
turned away from the earth. From the full ilie feems to decreafe gra-
dually as the goes through the other half of her courfe, thewing us lefs ·
and lefs of her enlightened fide every day, till her ne~t change, or con•
junction with thefun, and then lhe difappears as before. Her mean mo-
tion is thirteen degrees ten minutes and thirty-fix feconds ; her fwift
·or diurnal motion often varies, but never exceC'ds fifteen degrees two mi-
-nutes in twenty-four hours. Her gre!lteft north latitude is nve degre¢S
·and fevcrnteen minutes; and her greateft fouth latitude is five degrees ~nd
twelve minutes, or thereabouts. She is: never ftationary nor retrograde,
but always dirc:d; though wh~n lhe is flow in motion, and gdes lefs than
thirteen degrees in twenty-four hours, the is confidcred eqa~ivalent to a
retrograde planet. Her exaltation is in the third degree of Taurus; her
detriment in Capricorn, and her fall in thr~ dcgrcca of ~orpio. · Her
No. 6. , B b . orb.
Digitized by Coogle
ii5 A N I;L:L :..U~"JS .~~!A ".T I 0 , N
t*h.<>or:taalifion,;18 twellvdldegrees:befl>to und!atterally. of ~lheraalpeSs 1
·# atid·.
:me·iu1es ovet'"allt1nfan·ts· uhrit the tf~voo1Iv,tal' J()f \hCic;ap., .: . :: : .
.. 'T'ne.•Mil6ri1s·fc'!minifte,· ·noau·
rnal{co1d,; moift,:.and- phlegmatic. (f~er
influence, in itfelf, is neither•fo'rtun~td ·norlonfortufinte, \but as;(ho;happeoa
to.fall in with the configurations of the other planets, and is then either
· tTialevoleht.or.dtM:rw~fe:&§!thofe.\\f~ett~happen1C!J be• .·An~ urlder-t.Mfe t:ir-
cumftances lhet>~d 'the 'mljft pb\llel'ful of:all the:bcavenly;bodic~ig;J\er
opentions, by reafon of her proximity to the earth, and the fwiftnefs of
her motion, by which lh~ receive~ and m:anfmits to us the light and iri-
fl~ence of all the fuperiors by her configur~tions with them. When lhe
:ffis ltuli'1ri ~r·n~t·ivity,.: lbe,pr•d-uoesl f.ull ~tu.1'te;-.with J.ai11 atl4:.ptlc:4!91D-
: ·~~~m,Hio\I'Ad•.f.tbe,:'g.rey -eyes, Joworiagt•bsow, ··v~ryJlairyll.lh,~rt ~rw...s,
·d\kk ba:·ndsJmdi feet,i '.fmooth!bod.y,, ·.inol~~ed ••to. be•.f.Jt, . ~Uqrpuk(lt,u:f\Od
pl'iJ~-gmatic. •: Jf:.fue-. bo.impcdited ·of.me,·.wn-at..the.,time .oLl>irJh,_ .~e
·~tel i bl&'l\Ml ;ot\11Qfl ncaJ:..the<· eye ; 1if~ 1he.. bej(J)pedit~d .Jn..fu.GQ~t
:1f0\\fes; ·fhi-lbleMifu wii!Jibe ·near·the .ay;. naltut. i~ with.iix~d.Jlar,s""..~c\,jn
·<tift'fcJPt!unftC)lla~-}es,~i thc - blemilh wlll::faltin.thc t:Ay.e~ ,anq.will af{eA:tbe
tJ8gbt. 4
.;Jfi thebe,-wclt di~nmed at:thc ilativit.y,.. tbe.n.a.tive.,wHLbe o(fo.ft
lij'ffg~~~Jtt:mners.· iflci• difpo1iti~, a·.J~en 4:>fi the_,·polite1at.~s, .aod..o(.~n
~~i«fus ttn;.~~narionJ foDd·..ofi rnw.clti~s,. and~ ·g·i'ten, to,: U,a;Ve}Jj~g,..,or
..AD1til~g~b()utt..fhe·oooutry ; unlbble, and.. providipg. only for ~h~.pre-
:c{erftl\iirhe}~nlctfi.IOf fututity 1 timorous, prodigJlp ~.n.dAafilylaffrighted; .
· •but.:k)vib!(~ei' a~:~d;.defir.ing t()J li.ve,fr:ee1 fr.&m (tht~a.res. ;apd .il.Q>f-~{ftic;s. pf
·fbt w~kl. . ;.If. rho native be ·bc:QJ,lghttJup~to~ a. Q\CWhalli~a~.iP~,P-~y~c;_~t,
· fb~·· ~il~'-ber{r~uoody tampcringwwid~ a<Nari~ty ~<of: Q;itfeJ:e.n~ tra.P<is,:•kPt
1pu~fuing~n~ ofldu:m.·lQDg .together. ~ . If.Ahe.-.MAOn.:be:, i]l:-(i~nifte~ ~ ,Mle
· lbihh,l.thenmi.ve ~illtchca..bc .OOIIhfula,t~indolerJt.: and.o£41~Ao{~Jlq: .ti~en
tup:·to A d'tmk~n.~ .Ufotdcrly, . b~avly.liie.,, hatipg . l.Cl~Qqr;,.,~, ~Y. k.inrt..of
•bufttida~·or t~rripkJ¥mcot•. ,,W:lJen;ariental, ~.th~ .inclin.eth,. mqre~t9,~9.r.pu­
·Jtace f-Uut\ aheoQlCCUIIIln.tal• ,ratheld.C'}n, aWr.ward.-..Jlo4_j.1J..:fQfVll\d. ·
·! 'JJifoa)U•dtr t~JJf4o.,..;..T~::p~fy.;..chQ}i~:Q001pla~'lt~ :of the:ll.ovr~Js,
··the ;fiene ·14nd grnel;>•ovcrflosvings.."OfcQbilru£tiAn& qft.h~t l~JllSai:d~oBfy,
·iflttXes ·and dyknll&ry-'): aU.:cold nand •umati~ . cQmpll'iots,...Yfwms, ~irbtlle
·belly; di.fordettS of:,the ·eyes, .:fU1'foiJs,:,~ugbs,...C<¥\:V~lijq.Qsa, fa.lH~& ifick-
•nefs,•- king'~·-ev.il, 1impofth.umestl::fmallJ-pox.c .JAthar,gy, qfl}~es,, ~~~­
•.:zies:~r.apoplme·st· voaig~ .lanac:y~J11116\JlU ' " hPJPP\lr~ iJJ:.~n~.~r~~-t<>f
·- t~: body. In conoc:ptlion JllQ.)rul~the faY.tntb~JUQht~; :.tP4rg~~~·~ ,JJtc
brain~: dudlomach;·,,:aawels, ,hJadder,~tb:e:J~ft·;WAJiiJ P¥)Di-f.~l.ln~b~~right
~-eye. ~-..~n, aandtthtlWholo.#puUivAJfl'tulty.
. :1.1~/u
Digitized by G·oogle
' ~ jo\ "" • '.A .• S T .!t'l '0' : .. 0 ... ~ . - '
,_ v I' • •. ·~. "4.1. lAX ••• • · 117
··:l}lt;ui f!~~el,pla~.r.;.....Add~r's t?ngue, calabages;:colewqrt, ducks-meat;
Wlter..flag,--)ily, ·.water lily,- 6~mt de·Ju~e,. lettuoe, '. fluellin, moonw.ort.
loofi-rife, moufe-ear, orpine, poppies, purfiane, privet, rattlegrafs, .turnips,
white roles, white and burnt faxifrage, wall-flowers, willow-tree, toadftool,
water plantane, wa ter agrimony, water betony, houfeleek, moon-herb,
l y[op, CUC.\l\n9er,_endive, . mulhr~qms, yop~!;s, ~i~?f.eed, rapefeed, and
all fuch herbs flS tnrn towards the moon; ar)ci int~eafe anti .decreafe as fhe
poth; ,t ~c pal:n-tr~ , w~ich fends fo<tn,a ~w~g_eyery ti~e the moon rifes,
af!d all fuFh trees and plants as partict.pate or fympathtze With her, attd
are juicy. a.nd full of fap. In gatheri'ng her'' herbs, 'the 'famc' rulers to be
obierved as with the'other planets. • · -l :;, • r e •
I .~ ~
Stones and mffa/s.-All ftooes that are white and green, the marcaG te,
the chryffal, the fen{1~ ite, ap"
d all foft fiones:· 'Silver,~ and a11 hard white
meta~~. Arid the colours ·white, pale gre~n, and pale yellow. ~ · '
I ;
A11imals under the moon.-~ll _
amphibious animals, or fuch as delight
in water, and all .that fympathize w'th the moon, as the carnelian, .dog,
hog, frog, hind, goar, baboon, panther, cat, the civet cat, mice, rats,
&c. Among fillies, the relurus, whoJ~ eyes increpfe and decreafe accord-
ing to the courfe of the moon, and aJl othe.( filhes of the ~ike nature; .the
t'Ortoi fe, the echeneis, tne eel, dab, 'oyfier, lobfier, cockle, mufcle, and
·all kinds of Chell filh. Among birds, the goofe,, fwan, duck, diYe:dap;.-
per, moorhen, the night-owl, night-raven,, bat, and all forts of water~ .
fowl. · · - .
,,Wt.•other:.and winds.~Sht; P.r9d.U:ces we~~h.e~ ~.fC.9J4ing_!o her confi~ura~
tions with other .planc;ts,., viz. with .Saturn, cold~ .mojft, a~d- cloudy; .\yea- .
ther; with Jupiter, warn} anq temP.era'te ~ir; wit4 Mars, winds, clouded
iky, and fadden fl:o/ms; with, tpe Sun,- f!l~ va~ie~ the~.we'at~er accai~ing
to the time of the year ;. with ,yenus, wa__rm and geptfe lJ:l~wers ; with
Mercury, ftormy winds, anq rain. '· B.u~)~ the third.. part of this wor'k_, ,
we lhall treat of this (ubjeCl: mgre P.~r,ticularly• . i:'h~ m<;>on always Qcca-
fions thofe winds figQified l,>y the p}ape ~o wlfich !J:te appl!es in, he~~ ~on- .
figurati~ns. · .,
Signs.tmt/ (ripjj;ity.-.Ofthe cele.{ijal figns, lhehas only Cancer allotted .
to her for her houfe: s·h~ ;ules the e~r'tny triphctty ~by night, v'iz.''i'"ah- .
rus, Virgo, ani} Capric;qrn. ,., She is. in.friend~ip with Jupiter> ..Soy.Ve- .
nus, and Mercury;. but at enmity with Saturn anU Mars. 0( tlie w ekly
days, ilie rules Monday, and 'fhurfday n_
ig!Jts. · · ' t '" • • • · ••
. ~egions.~She has dominio? o,ver ?enmark, . ~o}land, Z~aland, F}an- .
. den, .Non!lgberg, and Nortli 'Acpenca. · t 1 · 1 - • · • •
. . ~ •• . • I • • ' . ..... . Jtt'lrs.
,;'"
oigitize9 by Coogle
1.18 A N t·;L ct. .u·s T ·It A·.T I 0 N
I
·uars.....Her greatelby~.J·· three; hundred and twenty J hergreat is. ~ne
hundred and eight; her 1mean year is uxty-fix; and her lea_ft year ia
twenty-five. · •
, ..
V ·ENUS t.·
Vcnus is the ne~t planet below the earth and moon, having her orbit
within ·that of'the' earth. She is computed to be fifty-n·ine millions of
miles from the (un, and, by moving at the rate offixty-ninc tboofand milea
every hour, the paff'es through the twelve figns of the zodiac in two
hundred and twenty-four days fcventeen hours of our time nearly.. Her
diameter is feven thoufand nine handred and Six miles, a·nd.·by bet diurnal_
motion ilie is ·carried about herequator forty-three miles every hour, be-
ofides .the fixty-nine thoufand above-mentioned. When the appears weft
of the fun,. Ole rifes before him in the morning, and is called the llltJrning
Jlar; but when the appears eaft of the fun 1he 1hi.nes in the evening after
he fets, and is then called the -roening flar; and.conti,nues alternately for
the fpace of two hundred and ninety days in each of thefe fituations.. It
may perhaps be thought 'furprifing .at firft, that Venus .ihould continue
longer on ·the eaft.or weft fide of the fun tha~ the whole time of her .pe-
riod round him ; but the difficulty vaAifues when we confider that the
eart•h is all the while going round the fun the fame .way, though n0t fo
Quick as Venus.; and therefore her·relative motion to the earth m!ld: ~~\
ivery period be as m'u.ch·ilower than her abfolute motion in her orbit as
the earth during that time advar-&es forward in the ecliptic, which is two
hundre_
d and twenty degrees. To us the appears through the telefcopc in
all the variou§ thapes of the moon. · Her mean motion is fifty-nine mi-
nutes eight feconds • and her -daily or fwift motion is from fixty-two mi-
nutes 'to one degree twenty.;two miootes, but never greater. Her utmoft
latitude, either north or fovth, never exceeds nin-e degrees two minutes.·
Her ex~ltation is in twenty-feven degrees of Pilces ; her detriment in
Aries and Scorpio; and her fall in twenty·f~ven degrees.of Virgo. She
continues retrograde forty-two days,· and is ft.ationary cwo days before and
. «wo days after her ftate of.retrogradation. Her orb, or radiation, is feven
.degrees before and after any of her afped:s. In the .human Jlructorc fhe
governs the reins, back-bone, feed and feminal vefi"els; ~lfo ~e nec;k, throat,
.breafts, and expulfil'e faculty J and rul.es the light blue and white·colours.
. .
Venus is a feminine planet, temperateiy cold and moift, nocturnal, the
leEer fortune, author of mirth and conviviality, alluring to procreation
and to the propagation ofthe fpecies. When dle a(cends at.a..riativity,
~e g.i.ves a han~me, well.-formed, but not tall, ftature; comele"ion fair
.and lovely. bright fparkling eyes of a dark hazle or black, the tace round,
zegular, fmooth. and engaging; 'the hair light brown, haz1e, or 'chefnut,
!hining
Digitized by Coogle
, 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
1hiningand plentiful; the body regularand well-proportioned; and ofa neat,
{mart, and airy. difpolition; generally with dimples in the chteks or chin,
and often in both; the eye wandering, and naturally amorous; in motion
light aod nimble; in voice, foft, eafy, {weet, and agreeable, inclined to
amorous conver(ation, and early enga~ements in love. If well-dignified
at the time of birth, the native will be of a quiet, even, and friendly, dif-
pofitioo, naturally inclined to neatnefs, loving mirth and cbeerfulnefs, and
do1ightiog in muric; amorou1, and prone to venery, though truly virtuous,
if a woman; yet fhe will be given to jealoufy, even without caufe. If
the planet be ill-dignified, then will the native! be riotous, profl.igat~.
abandoned to eYil company and lewd women, regardlefs of reputatiou or
charaCter; a frequenter of taverns. night-houfes, and aU placet-.of ill-
fame; delighting in all the incitements to incetluous and adulterous prae-
.tices; in principle a mere atheift, wholly given up to the brutal paf-
fions of unbridled and uncultivated nalUre. If Venus be oriental at the
time, the ftature will be tall, upright, and ftraight; but, if occidental, thort
-and fi~ing, though comely and well-favoured.. If the be fignificator
in a journey, and well-dignified, fhe portends much mirth, pleafure, and
fuccefs, and protnifes fafety and good fortune by the·way.
Difta.fts under Yenus: ~11 diforders of the belly and womb, fuffoca..
· tion, palpitation; heart-burn. diflocation, priapifm. impotency, hernias, ,
·diabetes, all ftages of the venctreal complaint, arid all diforders of the ge..
· nitals, kidneys, reins, navel, back,. and loins. ·
B..erlu and plants. Ale-hoof, alder-tee(", apple-tree, £linking aracb,
alkakengi, archangel, beans, burdock, bugle, ladies• bed-ilraw, bifuop's-
weed, blights, chickweed, chick-peafe, clary, cock's head, cowflips,daities,
devil's bit, elder, etingo, featherfew, figwort, filapendula, fox-gleves,
· gromwe11, groundfeJI, kidneywort, lady's mantle, mallows, herb Mercury,
mint, mothetwort, mugwort, par(nip, penny-royal, periwinkle, primrofe,
ragwort, rofes; fow-thiftles, fpinach, tanfey, teafels, violets, vervain.,
maiden-hair, cor-iander, melior, daffodil, ftone-parfley, fanders, fatyrion,
wild thyme, muik, the fig-trce,- ,pomegranate. the cyprus, fweet-apple
tree. peach, myrtle, walnut-tree, almond-tree, apricots, the turpentine-
tree, ambergreafe, gum, laudanum, frankincenfe, and all fweet odori-
ferout plants, as the ·lily, rofe, &c. In gathering, the fame rule is to
be ob(erved as with the other planets. ·
:Animals under Pmus.· All fuch as a:re of a hot and amorous nature, as
~ the dog, ~ey, bull, Oleep, goat, calf, panther, and hart. Among tithes,
the pi1cbard; gihhead, ·whiting, ttab, dolphin, and tithymallus. And,
· amoag · birds, the fivan, water-wagtail, fwallow, pclicatJ, nightingale,
N:o. 6. C c, pigeon,
Digitized by Coogle
120 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
pigeon, fparrow, turtle-dove, ftock-dove, crow, eagle, burgander, par-
tridge, thruih, blackbird, pye, wren, &c.
Stones andmetals. The beryl, chryfolite, emerald, fapphire,·carnelian,
marble, green jafper, ztites, the lazuli, coral, and alabafier; alfo copper,
brafs, and filver. She governs the light blue, and white, colour.
Wea.ther·and.winds. She denotes gentle ihowers in winter, and tempe-
rate heat io fu~mer; and the rules the fouth wind.
· Signs and triplicity. Of the celeftial figns the hath for her houfes
Taurus and Libra. She .rules over the earthy triplicity by day, viz. Tau-
_
rus, Virgo, and Capricorn. She is friendly with Jupiter, Mars, Mercury,
and the Sun and Moon ; but is at enmity with Saturn. She prefides
over Friday, and Monday night.
nars. Her greate1l: year is one hundred and fifty-one; her great year
is eigbty-two ; her mean year is forty-five; and her leaft year is fifteen.
MERCURY 1.
Nextto Venus, and within the orbitsofall the other planets, is Mercury,
and of courfe the neareft of them all to the central fun. He completes
hit revolution, or traverfes through the twelve figns of the zodiac, in eigh-
ty-feven days and twenty-three hours of our time nearly; which is the
length of his year. But being feldom feen, on account of his proximity
to the fun, and having no fpots vifible on his furface or di1k., the time of
his rotation upon his own axis, and the length of his days and nights, are
-as yet unknown to us. His difi:ance from thefun is computed to be thir-
ty-two millions of miles, and his diameter two-thoufand fix hundred.
He moves round the fun at the rate of ninety-five thoufand miles every
hour; and receives from that luminary a proportion of light and heat al-
moft feven rimes as great as that of the earth. At the times he becomes
vifible, he appears of a bright filver colour, though generally faint and
du1k.Hh to the naked eye. His mean motion is fifty-nine minutes and
eight fcconds, and fomctimes fixty minutes J and his diurnal motion is
moft times one hundred minutes a day. His greateft latitude, both ~orth
an4 fouth, is three degrees thirty-three minutes. His exaltation is in ·
fifteen degrees ·of Virgo ; his detriment in Sagittarius and Pifces, and
his fall in fifteen degrees of Pifces. He is retrograde twenty-four days ;
and is 1l:ationary one day before and one day after retrogradation. His
orb or radiation is fevcn degrees before and after any afped. He prefides
over Wednefday,.and Saturday night J and governs t~ brain, tongue.
hands, feet, and mtelledual faculty, of man.
Mercury
·Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R o· L 0 G Y. 121
. Mercury is the Jeaft or all the planets, in nature cold, dry, and melan-
choly;. but author of the moft pointed wit, ingenuity, and invention.
He is occafionally both ma{culioe and feminine; and lucky or unlucky,
as his pofition in the heavens o1ay happen to be. When be is in conjunc-
tion with a mafculine planet, he is ma{culine; when with a feminine pla-
net• feminine; good and fortunate when joined with. the fortunes, but
evil and mifchievous when in conjunction with malevolent afpects. When
he governs a nativity, he renders up a tall, ftraight, thin, fpare, bo<ly,
narrow face, and deep forehead ; long ftraight nofe, eyes neither black·
·nor grey ; thin lips and chin, with but little beard;· brown complexion,
and hazel or chefnut coloured hair ; the arms, hands, and fingers, long
and fiender; and thighs, legs, and feet, the fame. If orientally pofited,
the ftature will be iliorter, with fandy hair, and fanguine complexion,
fomewhat fun-burnt; the limbs and joints large and well fct, with fmall
grey eyes. But, if occidental, the complexion will be quite fallow, lank
body, fmall fiender limbs, hollow eyes, ofa red caft, and ofa dry conftitu-
tion. If Mercury be well dignified at the nativity, the perfon will inherit
a ftrong fubtil imagination, and retentive memory; likely to become an ex-
cellent orator and logician•. arguing with much eloquence of fpeech, and.
withftrongpowersof perfuafion. Is generally given to the attainment ofaU
kinds of learning ; an encourager of the liberal arts; of a aurp, witty,. ·
and pleafant, converfation; of an unwearied fancy, and curious in the
fearch ofall natural and occult knowledge: with an inclination to travel
or trade·into fgreign ~ountrics. If brought up in the mercantile line,
will be ambitious of excelling in his merchandiz~, and will moil times
prove fuccefsful in.. obta-
ining wealth. But, be the planet ill-dignified,
then the native w.ill betray a difpofition to dander, and abufe the charac- .
ter of every one without diftinction ; he will be a boafter,. a flatterer, a
fycophant, a bufy-body, a tale-bearer, given to propagate idle tales .and
· falfe fiori~s ; pretending to all kinds of knowledge, though a mere ideot
in his intelle8uaJ faculty, and incapable of acquiring any folid or fub- .
ftantial learning; apt to boaft of great honefty,. yet v~ry much addicted.
to mean and petty thiev-ery.
Diftafuundtr Mercury.. All dilordera-of the brain, vertigoes, mad- .
nefs, defeCts of the memory, convulfions,.. afthmas, . imperfections of the
tongue, hoarfeoefs, coughs,. fnuffiing in the nofc, ftoppages in the head•.
dumbnefs, and whattver impair& the inteUetlual faculty; alfo gout in .the
hands and feet. In conceptions he governs the fixth month.
Htr!Js tmd plants. Calamiot, carrots, carraways, champ,ignon,... dill,
. fern, fennel, bogs-fennel, germander, hoarhound,.hazel-nut, liq~odce,
fweet marjoram, mulberry-tree~ oats, par1ley, pellitory. of the wall,
1 famphire;·,
Digitized by Coogle
t 22 A N ,I L L U S T R A T I .a-· N
famphi..e, favory, (mallage, fouthern-wood, trefoil, valerian, ho_
ney-lac-
kle, annH, columbine, juniper-tree, piony, the herb Mercury, lugwort,
dragon-wort, cubebs, vervain, hiera, treacle, and diombra wallnuts. In
gathering, the fame rules are to be obferved as with the other planets.
Stones and metals. The emerald, agate, red marble, topaz, mill-ft9ne,
marcafite, and fuch as arc·of divers colours. Alfo, quickfilver, block•
tin, and filver marcafite•
.Animals. The dog, and all fagacious animals, and fuch ,as do not fty
-
the dominion of man ; the ape, fox, weazle, hart, hyena, mule, hare,.
-civet-cat, fquirrel, fpider, pifmire, ferpent, adder, &c. Among fithc5,
the trochius, the fox-fifu, the mullet, the pourcontrc:l, and tbe fork-
fifu. And among birds, the linnet, parrot, popinian, {wallow, martin,
pye, and bulfinch.
Weati.Jtr and fJJintls. He ufuatly cnufes rain, hail-ftones, thunder,
·lightning, &c. according to the nature of the planet he happens to ~c
in configuration with. He delights in the norther{) quarter of the hea..
vens, and produces·fuch winds as are tignified by the planet to which he
. applies in afpecl. '
Signs ttnd triplicity. He bath for his houfes the celelHal .figns Gemini
and Virgo; and he rules the airy triplicity by night, namely_ Gemini,
Libra, and Aquaries. ·
Regions. Flanders, Greece, Egypt, and .the Eaft and Weft Indies•
.rears. His greateft year is four hundred and fifty; his great is feven-
ty-fix; his mean year is forty-eight; and his leaft year is twenty.
S 0 L <:>.
'Sol, or the Sun, is an immenfe globe or body of fire, placed in the
-common centre, or rather in the lower focus, of the orbits of all the
planets and comets; and turns round his axis in twenty-five days and fix
hours, as is evident by the motion of the {pots vifible on his furface. His
-~iameter is computed to be {even hundred and fixty-three thoufand miles;
and, by the various attractions of the circumvolving planets, he is agi~
. ·tated by a fmall motion round the centre of gravity of the fyftem. He
,pa1fes through the twelve figns of the zodiac in three hundred and fixty-
·five days, five hours, forty-eight minutes, and fifty-feven tcconds, which
·forms the tropical or folar year, by which ftandard all our periods.of tim•·
.arc meafurcd. Hie mean moaion is fifty-nine minutea and eight fccoods ~
· but
Digitized by Coogle
•
0 F · A S T R 0 L .0 G Y.
but his {wift or diurnal motion is fixty minutes~ and fometimes fixty-onc
minutes fix feconds.. He conftantly moves in the ecliptic, and is there-
fore void of latitude; and, for the fame reafon, is n(fver ftationary or retro-
grade. His exaltation i·s in ninete~n degrees of Aries ; his detriment in
Aquaries J and his fall in nineteen degrees of Libra. His orb or radiation
is fifteen degrees before and aft~r all his afpects. In man, he governs the
heart back, arteries, the right eye of the male, and left of the female ;
and the retentive faculty. He prefides over Sunday, and Wednefday night~
He is friendly with Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, and the .Moon;
but is conftantly at variance with Saturn.
The Sun is in nature mafculine, diurnal, hot, and dry, but ntore tcm.
perate than Mars; and, .if well dignified, is always found equivalent to on~
-of the fortunes. When he prefides at a birth, the native is·generally of
a. large, boney, ftrong, body, of a fallow fun-b~lrnt complexion, large
high forehead, with light or fandy curling hair, but inclined to be foon
bald·; a fine, full, piercing, hazel eye; and all the limbs ftraight and well
proportioned. If he is well dignified, the native will be of a ooble,
magnanimous, and generous, difpofition; high-minded, but very humane;
of a large and benevolent heart, affa:ble, and courteous; in friendlhip,
fatthful and fincere; in promifes, flow, but punctual. 'l'he folar man i.s
not of many words ; but, when be fpeaks, . it is with confidence, and to
the purpofe ; heis ufually thoughtful, fecret, and referved • his deport-
ment is ftately and majeftic ; a lover of fumptuoufnefs and magnificence ;
and po1fetfes' a mind far fuperior to any fordid, bafe, or dHhonourable,
_praaices. If th~ ~~n be. ill-di~nified, then will the nativ~ b~ ~orn of
a mean and Joquac1ous dtfpofitiOn; proud and arrogant; dtfdammg. all "
his inferiors, and a fycophant to his fuperiors ; of thallow underftand-
ing, and impc:rfetl: judgment i reftlefs, troub)efome, a.nd domineering; of
uo gravity ·in words, or fobernefs in actions ; prone to mifchievoufnefs,
aufterity, uncharitablenefs, cruelty, and ill nature.
: Diftafts r!fthe Sun. All palpitations and trembling of the heart, faint-
ing and fwooniHg, weaknefa of fighc, violent fevers, choler, diforders of
.the brain, tympanies, cramps, foul breath, all diforders of the mouth
·and throat, catarrhs, 'defluxions, and king's avil. In conception, he pre-
·fi~es over ih~ fourth month. . .
Herbs atul plants. Angeli~a, avens, afu-tre~, balm, one-blade, lo-
vage, ·burnet, butter..:bur, camomile, ·celandine, eentatlry, eyebright,
fig-tr:ee, s~. Jqhnj$ w,ort, m.ari~qhts, qli~atoe, p~oy, Pcte~·s \fOrt, pim-
P.~Nrpel~c r~f¥D;~ r~f~ f<;»~is, rofe,~arx. ~u.~-1. fatfro~, ·tOI'mcntil; tu~fole,
.. , o. 6. D d v1pers·
Digitized by Coogle
·1'24 A N I L L U 5 T .R A T I 0 N
vipers-buglo(s, wallnut-tree, cloves, mace, nutmegs, fcabions, {orref;
wood-forrc1, barrage, gentian, ivy, lavender, bay-tree, myrtle', olive-
tree, mints, date~tree, oranges, citrons, thyme, vine, zedoary, myrrh;
frankincenfe, aloes, lapis calaminaris, lemon-tree, rhufk, f\veet marj~
ram, ginger, vervain, cinquefoil, barley, and pepper··h,oney. In gather-
ing thefe herbs, the cufi:om has been to do it in the fun's proper hour,
which may be found by the table calculated for that purpofe, in thit
work, when he is in an angle, we1l fortified effentiatly, and no way im-
peded ; and let the moon apply to him by trine or fex.tite.
• I
Stones and metals. .IEtites, the ftone called the eye of the fun, becaufe
it is like the apple of the eye in form, the carbuncle, chryfolite, the ftonc
called Iris, the heliotropion, hyacintp, topaz, pyroyphylus, pantaurus,
pantherus or pantochras, the ruby, and diamond. Alfq pure gold, and
all yellow metals.
Amma!s. The fun r.ules all fiately, bold, ftrong, furious, and invin..
cible, animals, as the lion, tyger, leopard, hyena, crocodile, wolf, ram,
boar, buU, horfe, and baboon. Among fiihes, he rules the fea-calf,
whofe nature is to refill: lightning ,; all ihell-filh, the ftar-filh for its re-
111arkable heat, and the filhes called flrombi. . Among birds, the eagle,
phamix, fwan, cock, hawk,. buzzard, lark, and nightingale.
Weather and winds. He produces weather'according to the proper fea-
fon of the year i in the fpring, warm and gentle thowers i in fummer,
if in afpect with Mars, extremity ot heat ; in autumn, fogs and mills ;
and, in winter, fmall drizzling rain. He delights in the eaftern part o£
the heavens, and brings eaftern winds~
Signs and triplicity.-Of the celellial figns, he has only Leo for his
houfe. She rules the fiery triplicity by day,. viz. Aries, Leo, and Sagit-
tarius. ·
Regions. He rules the fourth climate, Italy, Bohemia, Sicilia, Chal-
dea, the Roman Empire, and North and South America.
rtart. His greateft year is one thoufand fix hundred and forty ; but
others fay, only four hundred and fixty-one,; his great year is one hun-
dred and twenty ; his mean year is fixty-nine ; and his leaft is nineteen.
The DRAGON's HEAD &l, and DRAGON's TAIL e •
.The Head of the Dragon is mafculine, partaking of the nature both
•f Jupiter and Venus; but the Dragon•s 'fail is feminine, and of a di-
re~
Digitized by Coogle
:oF AS T R 0 L ·o ·a· v.
re~ oppoute quality to the head. The{e are neither figns nor conftella-
tions, but are only the nodes or points wherein the ecliptic is interfetled
by the orbits.of the planets, and particularly by that of the moon; making
with it angles of five degrees and eighteen minutes. One of thefe points
looks northward, the moon beginning then to have northern latitude f
and the other points fouthward, where fhe commences her latitude fouth~
But it muft be obferved, that thefe points do not always abide in one place,
but have a motion of their own in the zodiac, and retrograde~wi{e, three
minutes and eleven feconds per day i completing their circle in eigh•
teen years and two hundred and twenty~five days; fo that the moon can
6e but twice in the ecliptic during her monthly period ; but at all other
times the will have a latitude or declination from the ecl.iptic. The head .
of the Dragon is contidered of a benevolent nature, and almoft equivalent
to one of the Fortunes i and, when in afpetl with evil planets, is found
to leffen their malevolent effects in a very great degree. But the Dragon'•
Tail I have always found of an evil and·unhappy tendency, not only add-- .
ing to the malevolence of unfortunate afpects, when joined with them;.
but letfening confiderably the l>eneficial influences of the Fortunes, and
other good afpeds, whenever found in conjuntlion with them.
Should the reader be defirous of more particul:rr information on the pia•
netary fyftem, I beg leave to. recommend to his attentive perufal the:
aftronomical works of the ingenious Mr. Fergufon. And, in order to
bring all the foregoing particulars, concerning the periods, difiances, .
~ulks, &c. ofthe pJanets, into one point of view,. I fubj~in his follow..~
mg comprehenfive Table. ·
' •
.. ~") .
)
i
I
•
Digitized by Coogle
,.
,
0
<0"
;:::;:
N.
<D
0..
~
C)
0
~
,._
rv
L. - . -
A TABLE of the PERIODS, REVOLUTIONS, MAGNITUDES, &c. of the PLANETS,
~
'
As formerly computed by Afironomers.~For their nearly true Difiances from the SuN, as determined from 1
Obfervations of the Tranfitof Venus, in the Year 1761. '.i'
0 . Diame- 1 Mean ~· Mean dif- Excellti-i.:. -Axis Orbit Place of Propor p Pro. of Propor
'ISuN and A~dual pcd t~unal T?- ter in .diam. as tance from city of its indio- inclin. Place of its its Af- tion oft' rop~f Gravity tion of,
Planets. rho soun tatt~?n ltSIEnglilh feen from the Sun in Orbit in ed to toE- Aphelion. cending diame- IBnlk on the Denfi-
t e un. ts. miles. the Sun.'Englilh miles. miles. Orbit. cliptic. Node. ters. u • furface. ,ty.
-------- - ------- -- --
SuN - - - 2Sd. 6h. 76JCOO - - - - - - So o' - - -, Ioooo Sn6so '24 2Sf
~;crcury 87d 23h Unknown. 26oo 20" 3z,ooo,ooo 6,72o,ooo Unkn. 6° 54' t 13° 8' ~ 14°43' 34•~ h Unkn. Unkn.
Venus 2z4d 17h 24d. Sh. 79c6 30" 59,ooo,ooo 413,ooo 75° o' 3° zo' :: 4° 2o' n 13°59' 103{- I Unkn. Unkn.
II arth 365d 6h 1d. oh. 7970 21:' S2,ooo,ooo r,377,ooo Z3° 29: o0 o: ~ 8° r' 104i r 1 _ Ioo
·~oon 365d 6h29d. ufh. '2180 6' 82,ooo,ooo 13,ooo '2° 10 5° IS -----Variable. '28} h y3rs\ I2J~
\ur~ 686d 23h 24h. ,..om. 4444 t " IZ),ooo,ooo 11,439,000 0° o' r0 52' 1IJI. o0 p'. ~ 17° ti sRi + Unkn. Unkn.
luptter 4332d 12h 9h. s6m.l Srooo 37" 4'26,ooo,ooo zo,3sz,ooo 0° o' 1° 20' ~ 9° 10' 2D 7°'29' I06J-j 1049 2 19
'3at1Jrn ro759d 7h Unknown. 67ooo 16'' 78o,ooo,ooo 42,735,ooo Unkn. '2° 3o' t '27° 5o'2D 21°13' 878~ 586 rf l_!i
. . . . . . . ··~ ;s::C/)1
g~. Periods round g 2 Periods round
Would fall to II~~ Jupiter. ;;: a Saturn.
Propo,Propor Hour- Hour-
tion o tiona! ly mo- ly mo-
SPJN ~d~ Light quan- tton in ttOn of
Cubic miles in folidity.
Square miles in
furface.
ant> • and tity of its Or- its E-
Heat. Matter bit. quater
the Sun in · V>~ • V>~
No., D. H. M. ,,No., D. H.M.
---k--_______ - 11-, - ,--,-·----
SuN 45010'227)00- 3818 r,828,grr,ooo,ooo 232,577,II5,1J7,000,oooclays hrs. r~
Mercury 6~ Unkn. 95000 Unkn. 21,236,8oo 9,1951SJ4,500 IS 13j' ~-g
Venus Ij- Unkn. 69000 43 691,361,300 258,so7,8J2,200 '39 17 ~ e
Earth I I 58000 1042 . I99,859,86o • 26),404l598,o8o 64 10 'Ee::
M()on J= ~~ '2200 9~ If,898,7SO ' s,4o8,246,ooo 64 10 '['il
Mars ~ Unkn. 47ooo 556 62,oJ8,24o 45,969,335,840 ut o ., ~
!!Jupiter h 220 25oool 259zo 2o,6o3,97o,ooo 77S,rs3,5951ooo,ooo 290 o .;: i=
pSaturn ill 94 r8ooo Unkn. J.j.,Io:z,s62,oco 155, r'28,I8:z,ooo,ooo 767 o L!:::
I I 18 36 I I 2I 19
2 3 I 3 I 5 2 :Z I 7 40
3 7 3 59 3 4 12 25
4 16 18 30 4 I 5 22 41
Ifthe Moon's projec-1 5 79 7 f8
tile force were deftroyed, the would fall to the
earth in four days twenty-one hours.
~
I>)
~·
)>.
z
~
~
~
c::
en
~
~
>
~
.....
0
z
0 F A S T R 0 -'L 0 G Y•.
twelve figns being divided into four triplicities, the fourth column ihews
which of the planets, both night and day, govern each triplicity. · For
intl:ance, oppofite to Aries, Leo, and Sagittary, are the Sun and Jupiter;
which imports, that the Sun governs by day, and Jupiter by night, iu
that triplicity. Oppofite Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, are Venus and
the Moon, which thews that Venus has dominion by day, and the Moqn
by night, in that triplicity. Oppofite Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries.
are Saturn and Mercury, by which it appears that Saturn rules by day,
-and Mercury by night, in that triplicity. Oppofite Cancer, Scorpio, and
Pifces, ftands the planet Mars, who rules in that triplicity both night
and day. In the fifth, fixth, fc:venth, and eighth, columns, oppofite Aries,
ftands 1.$. 6. ~ 14. &c. which imports that the firft fix degrees of Aries are
the terms of Jupiter; from fix degrees to fourteen, are the terms of Ve'nus,
and fo on. In the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, columns, oppofite Aries, ·we
find ~ 10. 0 20. !l 30. which lhews that the firft ten degrees of Aries are
the phafes of Mars; fr?lll ten to twenty 9egrees are the. phafes of the Sun 1
and "from twenty to th1rty the phafes of Venus. In the thirteenth co-
lumn, in a line with Arh:s, ftands Venus in.detrilJlent ; which (hew,s th.1t
Venus, being in Aries, is in a fign direclly oppofite to one of her..o·~.n
houfes, and is therefore faid to be in detriment. In the fourteenth column,
. in the fame line with Aries, ftands Saturn in fall; which £hews tha~ Sa.
t~~n, when he is in ·Aries, is oppofi t~ to Libra, his ·houfe of exaltatio~,
·and fo becomes unfortunate, and is hence {aid to have his fall in that
· fign. . . J ' t·
The effetls produced by the planets under thefe fituations, are as ·fol-
.)ow: If the pJanet, which is principal fignificator, be pofit.ed in hi~ own
houfe, in any fch.cine or calculation whatever, it indicates profperity and
fuccefs to the perfon lignified, ~o the- bufiocfs in han~, or to whatever
dfe may be the fuhjeCl of enq,uiry. . .If a planet be in· his exaltation, it
denotes a perfon of 1najefiic carriage, and lofty difpofition, high mind~d,
aufrere, and proud. If a planet be in his triplicity, the perfon wiH ~e
profperous and fortunate in acquiring the goods of this life ; no matter
whether we11 or ill defcended, or born rich or poor, his condition and
·. circumfiances will notwithfianding be pr.omifing and gooq. ifa planet be
in his terms,· it betokens a perfon to ·particiHate rathe~ in the .nature and
quality of the planet, than in the wealth, power, and dignity,,indicated
thereby. If a planet be in his phafes, and .no otherwife fortified, though .
fignificator, it declares the perfon or thing fignifie.
d to be in great dif-
trefs, danger, .or anxiety. And thus in all ca{es,judgment.is to be given:
good or bad, according to the ftrength, ability, or imperfeClion~ of the
,pgliificator.
TABLE
Digitized by Coogle
t 3o A N. I L· L ·u S T R A T ·I 0 N·
T A B L E atewing the F 0 R T I 1' U D E S and D E BI LIT IE S
. . of the PLANETS.
Esn:·NTIAL DIGNITIEs.
A' Planet in his own houfe,
or mutual reception by
houfe, lha:Jl havedignities S
In exaltation, or reception by
exaltation · 4
In triplicity 3
In terms 2
In d~cant or phafis 1
AcciD.
ENTAL FoRTITUDEs.
'
·In medium creli or afcendant S
In the 7th, 4th, or uth, houfe 4
In the 2d or sth houfe ~ 3
In the 9th houfe --- - --- - 2
ln the 3d houfe -- - . - · 1
'DireEt---~
· 4
In hayz - -·-.
--- 1
:Swift in motion -.-.. _ 2
; lJ 11- or t oriental - -- ~ 12
:~ ~ or the: ) occidental r-----2
Free from combuftion ·--- 5
.In cazimi or in the heart of<:> --.5
Befieged by 11- and t - ·- S
Partial conjund:ion of the~ --4
In partial conjunt1ion with
"14- or 8 • -:- -- , ---5
In partial trine of'll. or ~ · ~- ----4
In parti~l {extile of~ or _
t · -------3
In conjunctio'n with Cor Leonis;
in ·25 degrees of st ~ 6
In conjunCtion with Spica Virgi-
nis, in 18 degrees of A -- - 5
.ln the terms ofll- or t - --- -- - 1
I
· DEBILITIES.
In detriment
In fall
Peregrine
ACCIDENTAL DEBILITIES.
s
4
5
In the 12th houfe, s
In the 8th or 6th houfe ~- -=--=+
Retrograde -- - - ---- - - -- --s
Slow in motion 2
Jp ll- or ~ occidental · 2
t or't oriental 2
»decreafing in light -.2
Combuftion ofthe 0 · s
Under the Sun's beams------4
Befieged by lJ and 1 6
Partial conjunction•of 8 4
Partial conjunt1ion with lJ or I- 5
Partial oppofition of 'FJ or 1 ---- - 4
Partial quartile of 1) or I - -- 3
In conjunction with Caput Al-
gol, in 2 t degrees of ts or
within Sdegrees ----s
In the term of ~ or 1 - ,. 1
.
TABL!'
Digitized by Coogle
- I
0 F AS T ll 0 L 0 G Y. 131 .
TABLE o( the FORTITUDES and DEBILITIES of the PART of
FORTUNE.
DIGNITIES.
The Part of Fortune in ~ or x 5
In .a. t n. !!D -------Jt
In n 3
In ~ 2
In the afcendant or medium cceli 5
In the 7th, 4th, or 1 uh, houfes 4
In the 2d or 5th houfe 3
In the 9th houfe - - - - - 2
In the 3d houfe 1
In coojuntl:ion of 11. or ~ ---5
In trine of 11. or ~ 4
In fextile of 11. or ~ 3
In conjunHion of the &~ ----2
In conjunction of Regulus in 25
degrees of Leo · ..6
In conjunction of Spica Virginis
in 19 degrees of 6 - ----- 5
Not combuft 5
DEBILITIES.
In nt '11' ·
:::: 5
In the 12th houfe 5
In the 6th houfe - -4
In the 8th houfe 4
In conjunCtion of r, or ~ S
. In conjunction of 5 · 3
1 In oppofition of '11 or ~ .~ 4
1 In quartile of "b or ~ - --· 3
I In terms of '11 or t . 2
: In conjunction of Caput Algol .
! in 21 degrees of ts _ 4
Combuft ~
The )) in conjunaion or oppofition of the 0 ~ ~ or the ~is impe-
ded two days, viz. one day before, and one day after.
The )) in quartile of the 0 h or ~ is impeded tWelve hours before
and after.• ·
To arrive at a proper degree of correctnefs in our refearches into futuri- .
ty, we muft be well verfed in the true nature and ftrength of the planets'
fortitudes and debilities, fo as to give them their due weight in the
fcale of nature,' according to the experienced rules of this fcience, and
no further. For the more a man endeavours 'to ftrain a judgment be-
yond the natural tendency of the planets, and the more he fwerves from
truth in putting down their ftrength or debility, the more he augment$
his error, and betrays his inexperience. To avoid this, let the ftudent
acquaint himfelf perfeCtly with thefe tables; and in practic;e, whenever he
has occafion to colleCt the fortitudes and debilities either of the planets or
part of fortune, let him fubtraCl: the lefs number from the greater, and the
remainder will be the planet's excefs of fuperiority, or debility; accord-
ing to which will be its operation upon the fubject of his inveftigation.
No.7· Ff Of
Digitized by Coogle
I ---..
A N I ·L L U S T It A T I 0 N
Of the PLANETARY HOUSES, and their. EF?ECTS;
To give a more fubftantial idea of the nature and ~rrangem.ent of the
twelve houfes of the planets, we 1hall confider them accordmg to the
following diagram:
'"'
In this fcheme Cancer and Leo have affigned unto them the two
great luminaries, Sol and Luna; becaufe they are agreeable to each other
in nature; for the Sun, being naturally hot and dry, £hews his effeCl:s·more
forcibly when pofited in Leo than he doth in eith~r Aries or Sagittarius.
And the Moon, for the fame reafon, hath Cancer allotted to her govern-
ment, becaufe lhe is cold· and moift, and of the nature of this fign; and
being the firfl: of the watery triplicity, ~nd next to the Sun's houfe, file
receives her light from him; and all things are generated by their joint·
influence. ·
Saturn is naturally cold, and therefore an enemy to he:lt; and, being the
higheft and moft remote from the luminaries of all the other ·planets,
has for his manfion the figns Capricorn and Aquaries; which are the
oppofitc figns to Leo and Cance·r, and are confequently cold and moift.
Saturn is accounted the m:oft obnoxious and moil: ma1evolent of all the
planets, becaufe he oppofes the two great luminaries, w~ich are the
fountains of life, light, and nutrition.
Jupiter
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. ljJ
Jupiter is placed under Saturn. and has the two figns that go before .
and after Capricorn and Aquaries allotted for his houfes. namely, Sagit-
.tary and Pifces, whic:h are in trine to the houfes of the two luminaries;
Pifces, his night-houfe, is in trine to Cancer, the houfe of the nocturnal
luminary, and Sagittary, his day-houfe, in trine to Leo, the houfe of the
diurnal luminary. Jupiter being naturally temperate, and having thefe
· amicable afped~, is deemed the moil: benevolent of all the planets to
mankind, and the gre11terfortune.
· Mars next in order follows Jupiter, 6eing placed under him; and
therefore thofe figns that go before and after the houfes of Jupiter are
allotted to Mars, viz. Scorpio and Aries, which arc in quartile to the
. houfes of the Sun and Moon, as Aries his day-houfe is to Cancer, and
Scorpio his night-houfe is to Leo. And. fince a quartile is found to be
an afpeCl of enmity, he is accounted malignant and unfortunate in an.
inferior degree to Saturn, who beholds the luminaries with an oppofition~ .
therefore he is called the ldfor infortune.
Venus, a mor~ temperate planet, ·hath appointed unto her thofe houfes
that go before the houfes of Mars, viz. Libra and Taurus, which arc in
a fe~tile to the houfes of the two luminaries, and form an afpect of .love
and amity; but, becaufe a fextile is not fo £lrong and perfect an afpeCl as
a trine, fhe is accounted the iejferfortune.
Mercury being fituated within the orbits of all the other planets, has the
figns allotted him which precede the two houfes of the great luminaries,
namely, Gemini and Virgo; and, becaufe Mercury is never difi!lnt from the
Sun above one fign, he naturally inclines neither to good nor evil, but
participates either in the good or evil influences of whatever planet he is
joined with in afpeCl.
The EXALTATIONS and FALLS of the PLANETS.
The· Sun, which is the fountain of life, takes his exaltation in nine-
teen degrees of Aries, becaufe he is then in the higheft northern point
of the ecliptic, making all things to fpring and flourilh, and producing
£ne warm weather, and length of days. And he is faid to have his fall
in Libra, bec.Jufe it is the oppofite fign in the he::avens to Aries, in which
the Sun .declines to the utrnofl: fouthern point, and occafions lhort.ne::fs
of days, and cold winterly blatls, de!lruttive to the fruits of the earth.
Now the Moon$ being co-partner and co-temporary with the Sun, and
receiving all her light from him, which enables her to be vifible to us firft
in Tauru~, and, becaufe it is the firft fign wherein £he has a triplicity, her
exaltation takes place in Taurus, wherein £he increafes in light and mo-
tion.
Digitized by Coogle
\
J34 AN ILLUSTRATION
tion. But Scorpio being the fign oppofite to Taurus, in which the de4
creafes in light, it is hence allotted for her fall, being the fign immedi-
ately after Libra, and oppofite to Aries, the hou(e of the Sun's exaltation.
Saturn, the moft remote planet, is the author of cold, as th.e Sun is ~f
heat, and is therefore exalted in .that fign wherein heat is diminiihed
and c·old increafed, viz. Libra; and his fall takes place in that fign where
cold ·is diminilhed and heat increafed, viz. Aries; which are quite con-
trary in nature to the Sun.
Jupiter is exalted in Cancer, and has his fall in Capricorn; for Jupiter
delights in the northern part of the heavens, where he ftirs up northern
winds, which increafe fertility and vegetation; and, his greateft declina-
tion nortbwards being in .Cancer, _he is therein exalted. For the con-
trary reafon he has his fall in Capricorn.
Mars is naturally hot and dry; and becaufe his influence and effed:s
are moft powerful in Capricorn, a fouthern fign, where the Sun is gene.
ralJy hotteft about noon, he is for this reafon exllted therein; and he
takes his fall in Cancer, quite contrary to the nature of Jupiter; for
Mars is hot and violent, and Jupiter cold and temperate.
Venus is naturally moift,. efpecially in Pifces, in which fign the fpring
is moifiened and forwarded in the increafe and ftrength of nature; and
therefore 1he has, the fign Pifces for her exaltation ; and, as Venus is the
mother of generation and procreatioq, lhe has her fall in Virgo, in the
autumn, when all things wither and fade.
Mercury, becaufe he is dry, and contrary in nature to Venus, is ex-
alted in Virgo, and has his fall appointed him in Pifces. Virgo is both
his houfe .
and joy. ·
The TRIPLICITIES of the PLANETS.
A Triplicity means three figns of the Zodiac, of one and the fame
nature, making a perfect triangle; and of thefc triplicities among the
figns there are four, anfwering to the four elements: viz. the fiery tri-
plicity, which confifts of Aries, Leo, and Sagittary; the airy triplicity,
confifting of Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries; the watery triplicity, con- .
taining Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifccs; and the earthy triplicity, which
includes Taurus, Virgo, and·Capricorn. Thefe figns apply to each other
in a trine, in the fame manner as a planet in a fiery fign applies to another
planet in a fiery fign (if in the fame number of degrees) in a trine; and
, 2 thus ·
Digitized by Coogle
. · 0 F A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y. 1·as
thus a planet in an airy fign beholds- another planet in an airy fign with
a trine; and fo the watery and earlhy figns apply in the lame manner;
and each of thefe trine afpeCl:s con~fts of one hundred and twenty degrees.
The Sun and Jupiter have dominion over the fiery triplicity; the Sun
by day, and Jupiter by night. The Sun by <lay, becaufe he is hot and
fiery, and of the nature of thefe figns; and Jupiter by night, becaufe he·
is temperate, and moderates the extremity of heat. This is called the
eaftern triplicity.
Saturn and Mercury have aominion over the airy triplicity, which is
weftern; Mercury by night, and Saturn by day. But as Libra is the
exaltation of Saturn, and Aqu!lries the boufe and ,fign wherein he has moil
joy; and as Gemini is only the'houfe of Mercury ; it follows that Sa-
turn has the principal government in this triplicity.
· Mars both night and day governs the watery triplicity, which is nor-
thern; and it feems that Mars ~as appointed to this triplicity to tem-
per and abate his violent heat; for we find he is more powerful in his
malignant effeCl:s in the fign Leo than he is in Cancer; therefore he has
his fall appointed him in Cancer, though h~ is peregrine in Leo.
Venus and the Moon bear rule over the earthy triplicity, which is fe..
minine and fouthern, cold and m~i~.., producing fouth-eaft winds, and
cold moift air; hence this triplicity js affigned to the care of feminin~
planets. ·
The TERMS "of the .PLANETS.
A Term is a certain number of degrees, in each boufe or fign of the
Zodiac, wherein the planets Saturn,. Jupiter, Mars, Venus, and Mercury,
have a certain priority; but ,the Sun and Moon have no terms. Tbefe
degrees are called terms, ends, or bounds ; for the planets have each their
proportions fo allotted therein, that at the en.d of a certain number of
degrees, the terms .of one planet ceafe, and thofe of ahother begin~
For inftan'ce, from the firft degree of Aries to the fixth, are the terms
of Jupiter; from the fixth to the .fourteenth, are the terms of Venus; -
and fo of all the reft. Ptolemy, Albumazer, and Bonatus, have all
1hewn that the greater years of the planets are difcovered by their feve•
raJ terms or bounds through the Zodiac J which is done by finding what
number of degrees each of the planets have allotted them in each fign;
and then, by adding them together, the fum will be the number of each of
their great years, as will appear more obviou11y by the following example:
No-. 7· Gg TERM.S.
Digitized by 00gle
s3s AN ILLUST .RATION
T E R M s.
lJ;: ~ ' I : ' ~ : I!
In the Sign ~cit; .4. 6 5 8 7
rt~l 2 7 6 8 7
[n: 4 6 6 7 7
- 8 7 6
z 7
;
6 6 s 7
{ll
,.
,..., 6 .s 6 '6 7
I"A
!.a. 6 8 6 5 5
:nt
~
8 6 7 6
f.tl 8 5 6 5
:J:t> 6 7 5 6 6
,_. 6 s s 8 6
~, -
' )E
5 6 s 8 6
~ \oO
- - - -
Great years 57 79 66 82 76 •/
- - - -
Thefe great years being added together, make juft three hundred and
:fixty degrees, being the whole extent or circumference of the Zodiac. ·
'
. · The degrees are. in this manner divided into terms, to 1hew what pla-
net has moft dignities in ·a fign, wltether b,t eJCaJt.ation and houfe, tripli-
. city and houfe; or houfe, exaltation, or triplicity, alone; and to that
df.planet which . has two or mo.re dignities, we affign the .firll: term, whe-
ther he be a fortune or an infortune. If an infortune has not two dig-
/ , nities in a fign, be is .placed laft, and the firft term is given either to the
1 lord or the exaltation, or to the lord of the triplicity, or to the lord
of the .houfe, uniformly preferring that planet which has two ·dignities
to th'ofe that have only one. But an e~ception to this rule extends to the
1igns Cancer and Leo; for Cancer being the oppofite fign to the exalta-
tion of Mars, which is in Capricorn, occafions the firtl: term of C-ancer
to be affigned to Mars; and, becaufeLeo is theoppofite fign to the boufe
and joy of Saturn, the firft term of Leo is for this reafon given to Sa-
turn. To the infortunes are allotted the laft degrees of all the figos, ex-
cepting thofe of Leo, wh!ch are given to Jupiter. The quantity of terms
are divided according to the following met~od; when Jupiter and. Ve-
nus have not two dignities in the fame fign, nor in the fecond:, third; or
fourth, houfe, they have feven degrees allotted for their terms-. Saturn
and Mars, becaufe they are infortunes, (except in their own ho~:~fes,) have
but five, and fometimes only four, three, or two, degrees each. Mercu-
ry, becaufe he is of a mixed nature; has ufually fix degrees allotted him;
but, when any of the planets are e1fentiallydignified, they claim each one
degree more; as Venus in the firft term of Taurus has eight degrees, and
Saturn
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R .0 L· 0 G Y.
Saturn in the firft term of Aquaries claims fix. But, becaufe Venus ha~
eight degrees in Taurus, Saturn has only two, being very weak in Tau.
rus; and again, in Sagittary, Jupiter is increafed one degree, becaufe he
is 11:rong, and Mercury is diminitbed one degree, becaufe he 'is weak; {o
that Jupiter takes·eight degrees, and leaves Mercury but :five.
It is alfo nece1fary to obferve, that a planet in his own term is (l:rong;
.and that, the more dignities he gains therein, the fironger will his influ-
ence be; for .example, Jupiter in the firft term of Sagittary is ftronger
and mor~ powerful than in the firft term of Aries, though they are
both equally his terms ; and the reafon of this is, becaufe the fign Sa-
,gittary is both his houfe and triplicity,· and Aries is his triplicity only,
wherefore be has the firft eight degrees <;>f Sagittary fqr his term, and
only fix in Aries. Hence it becomes apparent, that, the nearer a planet is
in nature to the, place of his term, the fironger will his influence be
therein. Jupiter, being hot and moift, has but five degrees for his term
in Virgo, which is a cold and dry fign; but in Gemini, which is hot
and moifi, he has fix degrees, becaute it agrees with his nature; and yet
in Cancer, which is cold and moift, he poffe1f-:s feven degrees, although
it does not agree with his nature; and the reafon is, Cancer is the houfe
of Jupiter's exaltation, and therefore the greater term is allotted him.-
In like manner, if a planet that is cold and dry be pofited in a term of
the fame temperature, his coldnefs anq drynefs will be greatly increafed
thereby, and he will opera~e the more powerfully in. his influences. The
fame rule holds good in refpea fo all the other qualities of the planets;
and it muft be remembered, that a planet is always increafed in ftrength
by being fituated in hoafes or places of his own temperature and quality.
Thus a planet that is hot and dry lofes much of his natural vigour in a term
that is cold and moifi~ and a planet that i~ cold and moift lofes confi-
derably of its nature in a term that is hot and dry. And in like manner,
if a plan~t that is a fortur1e be pofited in a fortunate term, his beneficent
effects are the more increafed, and he is fortified with greater power and
firength to operate upon whatever fubject he is the Jign~ficator of. And
on the contrary, ifan evil and malevolent planet be in an evil ilgnand term,
· its eff.:{ts will be therebv rendered ftill more mifchievous. And the lord
of a term when pofitcd ·in that term, be the fign what it may, has more
power therein than the lord of the fign, or thim the planet that has the
fign for its exaltation. Again, if the l9rd of any term be pofited in his
. term; and the lord of the i1gn be fituated in another fign in afpect with
him, the lord of the term will have more power in the fi~n- where he is
than the lord of the fign, and thall be the principal fignificator; but, if
.the lord of the term be pofited in his own term and iign alfo, then his
firength and energy will be fiill more confiderable. It may alfo be ob-
2 ferved,
Digitized by Coogle ·
--
A N I L L U S T R A' T I 0 N
·fc:rved, that, when a planet is weak in a fign, his debility would be very
much ]e1fened lhould he chance t? be fituated in that part of the fign
wherein he bas terms. Whenever a planet is pofited in a term and fign
both of his own nature, it is a very thong and fortunate afped:.
The P H A SE S of the PL A N E T S.
The planets' Phafes confift of the twelve figns of the Zodiac, divided
each into three equal parts ; fo that one phafis contains ten degrees, and
every fign three phafes. They are called phafes, becaufe they fignify or
I reprefcnt the forms, natures, and inclinations, of the feveral planets ap-
propriated to them. A planet's term divides a phafis.J a phafis divides a
iign; a fign divides a triplicity; and a triplicity divides the whole Zodiac.
To afcertain the' proper phafes of each planet, we begin with Mars,
in the equinoctial fign Aries, becaufe it is the houfe of this planet;
wherefore the fir.ft ten degrees confl:itute the phafis of Mars; the fecond
ten degrees are the phafis of the Sun; and the third, which make up the
whole thirty degrees of Aries, confiitute the phafis of Venus. . The
firft ten degrees of Taurus make the phafis of Mercury; the fecond ten
degrees are the phafis of the Moon; and the third ten conftitute the phafis
of Saturn. T~e firft ten degrees of Gem~ni make the phafis of Jupiter;
the fecond ten, the phafis of Mars; and fo on in the following order,
throughout the twelve figns of the Zodiac. ·
'
·Mars hath the firft phafis in Aries, which is the phafis of ftrength,
magnaaimity, and courage; of refolution, confidence, and intrepidity.
The Sun hath the fecond phafis in Aries, and this is the phafis of re-
nown, majefiy, and might ; of candour, generofity, and noblenefs of foul;
and herein the Sun has his' exaltation. Venus hath the third phafis:in
Aries, which is the p~fis of effeminacy, and wanton merriment; ofjoy,
fport, and play.
]n Taurus, the firft phafis is attributed to Mercury, and it is the p·bafis
of mechanical arts, agriculture, and learning; of refined wit, logic, and
oratory. The Moon has the fecond phafis in Taurus, and it is the phafis
of power, ambition, and authority; of .violent force, compulfion, and ar--
bitrary fway. Saturn has the third phafis in Taurus, which is the phafis
of cruelty, oppreffion, and bondage; of poverty, fervitude, and menial
occupations. ·
Jupiter hath the firft phafis in Gemini; and this is the phafis of nume-
ration, algebra, and all figures ; of decyphering hieroglyphic charaCters,
writings,
Digitized by Googl~
0 F · A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 139
writinga, and fculptures, Man: has the fecond phafis in Gemini: which
is the phafis of ftudy, perfeveraAce, and labour; of trouble, grief; an4
painful anxiety. The Sun has tha third phafis in Gemini: and·it is the
phafis of boJdnefs, contempt, and difdain; of indolence, forgettfwlnefs.,
and ill manners.
The.firfi: phafis in Cancer belongs to Venus : it ·it the phafis (i)f a goGd
underfianding, mirth, and wit; of dieerfulnefs, complacency, and love.
, The fecond phaGs in Cancer belongs to Mercury: it is t~e phafis of
wealth, honour, and preferment; of fruitfulnef6, fertility, and fuccefs in
bunnefs. The third phafis in Cancer belongs to the Moon; and it is .
the phafis of fuccefs in arms, law, and oppofition J of travelling, perfe-
verance, and ftrc:ngth.
Saturn has the £rft pbafit in Leo: it is the phafis of v~le~ce, rage,
and tyranny; of lufi, cruelty, and mifchievoufnefs. Jupiter has the fe-
cond phafis in Leo: it is the phafis of difputation, contention, and ftrife;
of hoftility, violence, and battle. ' Mars hath the third phafis in Leo:
which is a phaGs of efteem and friendlhip, of union in the publ~c caufe,
and of fuccefs in arms.
The Sun has the firft phafis in Virgo: it is the phafis of riches, pro-
·.perty, and wealth; of ·ioduftry, improvement, and cultivation. Venu~
hath the fecond phafis in Virgo: it is the phafis of avarice, covetouf-
nefs, and fo'rdid .gain; of meannefs, peilurioufnefs, and par,fimony~
Mercury has the third phafis in Virgo: and it is the phafis of advanced
age, infirmity, and weakncfs; ofgradual decline, diffolution, and decay.
The Moon has the firft phafis in Libra: it is the· phafis of juftice,
mercy, and tru~h; of humanity, liberality, and benevolence. Saturn has
the fecond phafis in Libra: it is the phafis of advantage, emolument, and
gain; of watchfulnefs, labour, and fubtilty. Jupiter has the third pha-
fis in Libra: which is· the phafis of lafcivioufnefs, luxury, and licenti•
oufnefs; of diffipation, drunkennefs, and depravity.
' '
Mars has the firft phafis in Scorpio: it is the phafis of violent ftrife~
contention, and 1laughter; of thieving, murdering, and robbing. The
Sun has the fecond phafis in Scorpio: it is a phafis of injufiice, deceit-
fulnefs, and envy; of difcord, malice, and detraction. Venus hath the
third phafis in Scorpio: ·aad it is a phafis of lewdnefs, fornication, and
adultery; of flattery, feduetion, and deceit. ·
· Mercury p<?1Teffes the firft phafis in Sagittary: it is a phafis of ftrength,
valour, and jntrepidity; of jollity, opcnne(s, and fcftivity. The Mo.on
No. 7• . H h . ha&
Digitized oyGoogle
'
• I
AN ILLUSTRATION
has the {econd phafis in Sagittary: it is the phafis of affliction, forrow, '
and perturbation of mind; of internal woe, fufpicion, and miftruft. Sa-
turn has the third phafis in Sagittary: · and it is the phafis of obftinacy,
obduratenefs, and tyranny; of wilfulnefs, mifchievoufnefs, and cruelty.
Jupiter has the ftrft phafis in Capricorn: it is the phafis of h,o(pita-
lity, benevolence, and honeHy; of conviviality, merriment, and fport.
Mars hath the fecond phafis in Capricorn: it is the phafis of inordil)ate
.defires,-of unbridled paffions, and intemperate tufts; of difcontentednefs,
peevifhnefs, and ·difappointment. The Sun has the third phafis in Ca..
·pricorn: and it is a phafis of exalted underfi:anding, manlinefs, and wif-
dom; of fobriety, integrity, and honour.
Venus hath the firft phafis in Aquaries: it is a phafis of continual
anxiety for gain, of laborious toil, and unwearied application; of difap-
pointment, misfortune, and lofs. Mercury has the fecond phafis in Aqua-
ries: it is the phafis of modefty, clemency, and good nature; of gen-
tlenefs, mildnefs, and compl~cency. The Moon hath the third phafis in
Aquaries: and it is the pbafis of di1Tatisfa&ion, repining, and difc9ntent;
of jealoufy, ingratitude, and envy. _
Saturn hath the firft phafis in Pifees: it is a phafis of thoughtfulnefs,
fcdatenefs, and temperance; of fobriety, reputation, and fuccefs in bufi-
nefs. ']t1piter hath the fecond phafis in Pifces: it is the phafis of aufte-
rity, haughtinefs, and ambition; of pride, vain-glory, and felf-concdt.
Mars hath the thi-rd and taft phafis in Pifces: and it is the phafis of con-
cupifcence and loft; of debauchery, lewdnefs, and.profligacy. .
. '
The advantage to be derived by a perfect knowledge of the planets'
phafes will hereafter appear in the judgment pf a nativity; for, if the
afcendant on the cufp of any perfon's nativity be found in thefe phafes,
then will_ the native's natural difpofition, manners, occupation, and gene-
ral purfUJts, be regulated_by them, according to the firength or debili~y
· of the other afpeCts; for, if the lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, ·or
planet applying to the afcendant in afpect, or beholding the lord of the
afcendant, or Moon, are both pofited in phafes of the fame nature; then
will their effects upon the native be m~ft powerful and efficacious.
,The J0 -
y S of the P L A N E T S.
The planet~ arc faid to be in their j,oys, when they .are pofite.d in thole
-houf" whercm tbey are moft ilrong and powerful,; as, ·
· The
Digitized byGoogl~ .
OF ASTROLO .GY.
The pTanet .r,
'lf.
~
e
'l'
)
joyetb
.f!
In 1·~
.IIJt
t22S
J.f=l
It may, perhaps, be enquired, why.Saturn joyeth not in Capricorn, as-
well as in Aquaries, fince both thefe ligns are his houfes? ·The reafon
·is, that in Aquaries he has both houfe and triplicity, and is therefore bet-
ter dignified, and more potent, in Aquaries than in Capricorn. So like-
wife Jupiter joyeth in Sagittary, and not in Pifces, 'becaufc in the former
1ign he has both houfe and triplicity, but in the latter.he has houfe
only. . The fame obfervation extends to the other planets. ·The Moon,.
indeed, has no triplicity; but the joyeth in Cancer, becaufe it is a"fign
ofher own quality and nature. Hence it appears that Saturn, though .ftrong
and well dignified in Capricorn, is much ftronger, and .has m·ore digni-
ties, in Aquaries; Jupiter alfOf has ftrong influences when pofited irr
Pifces, but much fironger in Sagittary ; Mars is potent in Aries, but
infinitely more fo in Scorpio; Venus has great operation in Libra, but
in Taurus her effeCts are more powerful; and Mercury, fo~ the fame
caufe, operates much more forcibly in Virgo ·than he ·does ·in the fignt
Gemini. The efficacy of thefe rules having been proved.by repeated
experience, it is nece1faa:y for every fiudent to confider them with at-·
tc:ntion.
'
The A N TIS C I 0 N S of the P LA NETs:
A planet's Antifcion is a certain virtue or influence it acquire's by be- ·
ing pofited in conjunction with any ftar or planet, in degrees equally dif- ·
rant from the two tropical figns, Cancer and Capricorn, in which degrees. ,
the Sun, when it arrives, occafions equal day and night all over the world.-
For exar:nple,. when the Sun is in the tenth degr~e of Taurus\ heJs as far
diftant from the firft degree of Cancer as when 10 .the twelftll\ degree of
Leo; therefore, when the Sun, or any planet, is pofited in the tenth degree .
of Taurus, it fends its antifcion to·the twentieth degree of ·Leo; that
' is, it gives additional force and virtuC? to any planet at.that·time in th~.
. •..Jame degree by. conjunCl:ion, or that ca~th any_
afpe~ to 1t. The planets ·
ant~fcions may, at all times, be found by the followmg table.
ATA-
/
.Digitized by Coogle
,~ · A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
A TA·
BLE of the ANTISCIONS of the PLANETS•.
Deg.: into deg. Min. into min.
T into "l 1 29 1 59
~ St. 2 28 2 58
n !23
3 27 3 57
J;> .t 4 26 ·4 s6
- nt. 5 25 s · 55
...
)( .0. 6 24 6 54
. 'The foregoing table ihew.s, that a planet, fituated in' one degree one
minute of Aries fends his antifcion into twenty-nine degrees fifty-nine
minutes of Virgo; a planet in two degrees two minutes of Taurus, into
lW~nty-eight degrees fifty...eigbt minutes ~f Leo, and fo on through the
.table. Tbefe antifcions are confidered, in the rules of aftroJogy, equi-
valent ·to a fextile or a .trine, particularly if the planets arc of the
benevolent oc fortunate kind. Tpefe planets have alfo their cootra-anti-
fcioDs, which are of the nature 9f a quartile, or oppofition. To know
,·where .thcfe fall, it only requires to find the antifcion, and il'l the oppo-
1itc fign to ~t will be the contra...anti.fcion. For infrance, fuppofe Ju- .
piter io one .deJrcc of Aries~ his antifcion will then fall in twenty-nine
degrees of. Virgo, aad his contra-~ntifcion in twenty-nine degrees of
Pifces~ bccaufc; Pifcea is the fign immediately oppofite to Virgo, where
the an~ion falls. ·
The AS P E C T S o£ the P LAN E T S.
The ftrongeft or moft forcible rays, afpeets, or configurations, pecu..
liar to the planets, are the foJlowing: a conjunction, denoted by this .
charaCter, cS l a trine, A; a quartile, c; afextile, • J and an oppotition, 8.
A C:onjunc9:ion~ cS, n not properly an afpea, though frequently Co-call-
ed; for, when two planets are both in the fame degree and minute of a
fign, they are faid to be in conjunction, confcquently cannot at that time
be in afpc:Cl: to each other. The effeas of conjunCtions are either good
jilt or bad according to the nature and -quality of the planets that compofe
them, or as the planets in conjunCtion are friends or enemies to one
another, or to the fu-bjefi then under confideration.
A fextile afpeCl:, *,implies two of the heavenly bodies ·pofited at the
diftance of £xty degrees in longitude, or one £.x:th part of the Zodiac,
• The Antifcions, according to the fyftem of Argo} and Morinus, are followed here, though
difcontinued by fome modern profdfors. The Placidean method, however, will be 1iven in the
-.:oufc of the work. ·
from
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T It 0 L 0 ~ Y.
from each other; for which reafon it is fometimes calied a fexangular
a{peel:, or an hexagon. The fextile is termed an afpect: of imperfett Jove,
amity, or friendiliip; becau_fe when two planets, or fignificators, are in
fextile to each other, they import that any matter in difpute, treaty of
marriage, or other fubject of enquiry, may be happily terminated, or
brought about, by the intervention of friends; or that for want thereof,
the contrary may happen. And, though the fextile afpetl is fometimes
over-ruled by the more powerful influences of malignant ones, yet it
is generalJy confidered. an omen of the favourable kind.
· By a quartile afped: o , 'two planets' aro underfiood to be pofited at
.Qinety ~egrees, or one fourth part o~ the circJe of the Zodiac, fr~m each·
other; 1s confidered an afpea of Jrnperfett hatred, and ad.s 'l)tCt 'Vt':fo
with the fextile, inclining rather to malignancy, contention, and mis-
fortune, as the other does to friend1hip, harmony, and good fortune.
A trine afpeel: A, imports the planets to b~ fituated at the difiance of
one hundred and twenty degrees, or one tbird part of the circle of the.
Zodiac, from each other; and is fometimes called a trigonal afpect, or
a trigonocrater, implying rule or dominion in a certain trigon or tripli-
city. This is an afpett of the moft perfett unanimity, friendlhip, and
peace; and it is fo conlidered, becaufe when the planets are in a A afpea,
they are pofited in figns precifely of the fame triplicity and nature; that
is to·fay, they are both in an earthy, airy, fiery, or watery, fign; and
confequently both col)tribute the f~e influences unimpeded. .Qut in a
'*, which is ~an afpea of imperfetl amity~ the planets are pofited in
Jigns of only a partial nature, viz. fiery with an airy, or an earthy with a
watery, fign; and as the fiery fign is hot and dry, and the airy hot and moifl;
- the earthy cold and dry_, and the watery cold and mDt]l, fo the planets
thus pofited, agreeing only in one point out of two, give but an imperfect
influence. Thus the diftipctions between a* and a A afpcet, and between
a o and 8 , are founded in.rcafon and experience•
. The oppofition 8 of two planets, lignifies .their being pofited at one
hundred and eighty degrees, or juft half the diftance of the Zodiac, apart.
which places them in a diametrical radiation. This is confidered anafped:
of perfect hatred, or of inveterate malice and enmity, as malignant in
its effeas, as the trine is benevolent; and of double the deftructive ten-
dency of the i:l afped:. To infiance this, let us fuppofe two kingdoms,
ftates, focieties, or private gentlemen, at variance, and it is enquired whe-
ther the caufc o( difputc may be amicably adjufted? If a figure be erected
No. 7. · I i . for
Digitized ~YCoogle
_
,.,.
),f.
1/ '
A' N I.LLUS'TRATION
for the pofitioAs of the bca;venly bodies, and the two ·fignificators, reprc-
·fenting the two adver{aries, be in a quartile afpeCt, I fuould infer, that
notwithfianding .the then fubfifiing enmity of the parties, with all the
threatened mifchiefs attending it, harmonr may be reftorcd, if proper
means were ufed for that purpofe. But, i the fignificators are found in
aCl:ual oppofition, the difpute in quefiion would mpft probably occafion
hoftility,. war, litigation, or duel, or be attel)ded with fome alarming con..
fequences, before the matter would fubfide. Wherefore an 8 is juftly
termed an afpeCl: of perfca: enmity.
Thefe afpeets arc all divided, for the fake of pe~fpicuity, into partik
and platic afpetl"s. A partile afpeet confiders two planets exactly fo many
degrees from each other as make a perfect afpeCt; that is, if Venus be
in nine degrees of Aries, and Jupiter in nine degr-ees of Leo, they are in
partile trine afpect. Again, if t~e Sun be in OQe degree of Taurus, and
. the Moon in one degree of Cancer, they are in a partile fextiJe a.fpetl; fo
thatall perfea: afpea:s are partile, and imply the matter or thing threat-
ened, whether g9od or evil, to be near at hand. .
· By a platic afpetl, we are'to underftand two planets fo pofited, · as to
adm.it half the degrees of each of their own rays or orbs; for mftance,. ,_
if Saturn be pofited in fixtccn degrees of Aries, and Jupiter 'in twenty- ···
four degrees of Gemini, then Saturn would be in a platic !extile afpect ·
to Jupiter, becaufe Saturn would be fituated within the moiety pf both
their orbs, which are nine degrees each. The fame circumfiance ap- . ·
plies to the afpeets of all the planets; for jf their diftance from each other
brings them within one halfof each of their orbs or radiations, when add...
· ed together, they will then form a platic afpect. It muft alfo be care- ·
fully obferved in ·thefe platic afpecl:s, whether the co-operation of the
two planets ie going off, or coming on. In the above example, the ef..
fed: of Satu.rn'.s platic fextile afpect with Jupiter was $Oing ·off'J but if
we reverfe t.heir fituations, and place Saturn in twenty-four degrcee of
Gemini, and Jupiter in fixteen degrees of Aries, then the afpeCt would
be comiQg on with all its force and infiucace, and would proportionably
affeCt the iubjea, whatt'Yer it be, under confideration.
To enable the reader to find the platic afpects more readily, I fubjoin
the following table of the planets' orbs, mean motion, and latitude.
TABLE
•
Digitized by Go&
·gle
•
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G .Y. 145
TABLE of the ORBS and MEAN MOTION of the PLANETS.
ORBs. MEAN MoTioN.
Saturn 10 degrees 2 minutes 1 fccond
Jupiter 12 degrees 4 minutes' 59 feconds
Mars 7 degrees. . 31 minutes 27 feconda
Moon 12 degrees 30 min. 13 deg. 10 min. 36 fee•
. Venus 8 degrees 59. minutes 8 feconds
Mercury 7 degrees 30 min~ 59 minutes 8 feconds
Sun 17 degrees 59 minutes 8 feconds
T A B L E of the P L A N E T S' L A T I T U D E.
North Latitude. South Latitude.
D. M. S. ·D. M. S. '.
Saturn 2 48 o 2 49 o·
Jupiter 1 38 o 1 40 ? ·
Mars 4 31 o 6 47 · .o
Moon s o 17 5 o . 1 2
Venus 9 2 o 9 2 o
Mercury • 3 83 o 3 35 ·' o ·
The Suo, always moving in the ecliptic, can have no latitude.
/ ' . ·.
---1:. Now it muft be obferved, that thefe afpects of the pl~nets arc project-
! ed or caft contrary ways, either onward -in a line progreffively with the
.' figns of the Zodiac, which are termed fini~er afpec~s; or elfcs backward, ·
in a line reverfeways to the order of the Zodtac, wh1ch are termed dexter
a{pects. The whole of thefe appear at one view in·the following table.
TABLE of the RADIATIONS, or SINISTER ~d DEXTER AS~
PECTS, of .all the PLANETS.
* C A 8
I* c A .:L * c_ .~ 8
---
Dexter ¥
::'dt
~
utscv-_
t
tOttiJI.'l.
Sinifter
.00
.O.ftlt-
u
II !liS\, =xcv-
--- -- - I.
Dexter *=~
• iZSIIt$ 1Jlt0t"J
Sioifter
t$
G.stiiJt"l nt.t'l-.fM
"' a
MCW'll
- - 1- -
Dexter cv-M= .n,en
- .tnt.,o;
Sinifi:cr
n
&l.#JttOtt
A 'V'
-T~UJ-J'
.t'l';f=
- --~
- -
'xter
~:='~';~
ll)l'l,!lil
*
".~' t .111. Ill
ifter
D 111. J!t=MH ~IIS!2J
•
--- --1-
• 'fC C A 8 * .
c A 8 * C A 8
In
Digitized byGoogle
A N I L L. U S T R. A T I .0 N
In the foregoing table, at the top of the third column, note the cha..
racters of the afpects fextile *, quartile o, trine A, and oppofition g,
as placed over the figns of the Zodiac. In the firft column obferve the
words dexter and finifter, and in the fecond column the fign Aries r.
Thefe are intended to thew, that a planet, pofited in Y', would fend his
fextile afpect, dexter to Aquaries, and finifter to Gemini; his quartile,
dexter to Capricorn, and finifter to Cancer; his trine, dexter to Sagittary, ·
and finifter to Leo; and would be in oppofition to a planet pofited in
equal degrees of Libta. The fame rules apply throughout the table; but
it mufi: not be forgot, that .finifter afpects go in the fame order with the
figna of the Zodiac, and dexter contrariwife; and that the ·dexter
afpect~ are more fi:rong and powerful than the finifi:er. And thus, .ac-
cording to the operations of the planets and fi:ars, · are the natures of all
men, as the planets have predominancy in them; and fuch are the na.
tures of aU manner of herbs and plants that grow in the field. Some
are influenced by Saturn, and thence are cold. and dry; others by
Jupiter, and thence are hot and moifi:; one by an order of Mars draws
JlOthing but poifon to its roots; and another by the fweet influence of
Venus fucks nothing but the fweet fap of the earth into aU it fibres.
If Saturn t>r Mars rife with a birth, it is ten to one but the child dies
. ·· that year, unlcfs Jupiter or Venus· interpofe, by throwing their friendly
iniiuenc~s fi:rongly into the fign. ~nd in thefe refpects we have as in-
! contefi:ible proofs of the truth of what we advance. as the phyfician has
of the nature of herbs when he tafi:es them; he, from that demonfi:ra-
iion, declares them to be hot or cold, and good either to cure or kill;
. but we can afcertain .this without tafi:ing them, becaufe we know the
· fource from w~ence th~ derive thefe oppofite qualities.
It were needlefs for me to dwell longer upon an explanation of the
different virtues and effects of the planets and figns.. Sufficient has now
been faid to point out their operations and natural influences to the
underftanding of the moll: limited capacity. It therefore only .remains
for my readers, or. fuch of them as intend to make any progrefs in the
ftudy, to familiarize themfelves with the fubject, by a frequent perufal of
it; and particularly to ~cquire a correct knowledge of all the charac-
ters by which the figns, planets, and afpects, are feverally difi:inguithecf.
It will then be proper to underfi:and the following terms peculiar to this
Art.
'e. E.XPLA..
Digitized by Coogle
0 F .A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y. 14-
7
EXPLANATION of the TECH_
NIC 'AL WORDS and
T E R M S of A R T ufed in A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
DIRECTION fignifies a planet moving on in its natural courfe,
from weft to ctafi, according to the fucceffion of the figns in the
Zodiac; thus, a planet is direct, when it moves in conflquentia, from
Aries to Taurus, from Taurus to Gemini, &c. Direction is·alfo a cal-
culus, whereby to find the time of any accident or remarkable event that
will .happen to the perfon who propounds a quefiion, or has his nativity
cafi. For infiance, a perfon enquires how many years he may Jive, by
the courfe of the planets at the time of birth?. Having·e!lablilhed the
Sun, Moon, or afcendant, as fignificators of life, and Mars or Saturn as
promittors or portentors of death, the diretlion is a calculation of the
length of time in which the fignificator will be in meeting the promittor;
and this refolves the quefiion. In thefe calculations, the fignificator is
fometimes termed apheta, or giver of life, and the promittor anareta, or
giver of death•. The directions of all the principal points of the heavens,
planets, and fixed fiars, as the afcendant, mid-heaven, Sun, Moon, arid
Part of Fortune, are worked by the fame rule.
STATIONARY is underftood of a planet, when, to the eye or.fenfes of
a beholder here on earth, it appears to fiand frill, without any progreflive
motion in its orbit. Not that a planet ever is or can be naturally in this
ftate, but is only rendered fo in appearance, by the inequalities which
arife from the po.fitions and motions of the earth; for, were the plane~s
to be viewed from the Sun, or centre of the fyftem, they would always
appear uniform and regular.
·RETROGRADATION implies an apparent ·motion in the planets,
whereby·tbey feem to go backwards in the ecliptic, and to move in ante-
cedentia, or towards the antecedent figns, viz. from eaft to weft, contrary
to the order of direction and to the fucceffion of the figns of the Zodiac.
This alfo is a·n appearance produced by an oppofite motion of the earth to
that of the planets. · · · •
APPLICATION lignifies the approach of t-wo planets together,_either
by conjunction or afpeCl, and is of three kinds: the firft is, when a pla-
net, fwif m otion, applies to one of flower progrefs; for example, fup-
pofe Mercury pofited in fixteen degrees of Gemini, and Mars in twenty•
one ~rees of the {ameilgn, both being direct in motion; Mercury, by
havin t -e greater apparent projectile force, would overtake and form a.
No. • K k con•
~igitized by Coogle
AN,ILLUSTRATION
conjunB:ion with Mars, which is termed a direel application. The fe.
cond kind is formed by two retrograde planets; as, fuppofing M~rcury
in fixteen degrees of .Gemini, and Saturn in fift.een degrees of the fame
fign, both retrograde, Mercury, being the lighter planet, applies to the
body of Satu.rn, a more ponderous planet, by retrogradation; and this is
termed a retrograde afplication. . The third kind is occafioned by one
planet going direct in motion, and meeting another planet that is retro-
grade; for inftance, fuppofe Mercury retrograde in fixteen degrees of
Gemini, and Saturn · direa in twelve degrees of the fame fign; here
Mercury, being the lighter planet, applies to a conjunction of Saturn by
a retrograde motion; and thefe two laft are deemed evil applications. It
muft alfo be obferved that the fuperior planets never apply to the inferior
but by a retrograde motion; whereas the inferior planets apply both ways.
SEPARATION .is rinderftood of two planets that have either been in
partite conjunction or afpeCt, and arc juft departed or feparated from
Jt. · Thus, if we fuppofe Saturn in twelve degrees of Sagittary, and Ju-
piter in thirteen degrees of the fame fign, Jupiter will be then feparated
one degree from a perfect or partite conjunction with Saturn~ but they
would ftill be in a platic conjunction, bec;aufe they are within the moiety
of each other's radiations, which is four degrees and a half each, confe-
quently thefe planets would continue in platic conjunCtion until they
were feparated nine degrees, and then the afpect would entirely ceafe• .
The exatl knowledge of every degree of the feparations of thefe afpcfls
is of the utmoft confequence in. giving judgment upon various impor-
tant occafions. ·For inftance, fuppofe it were demanded whether a cer-
tain treaty of marriage would take place or not? When all the -afpects
are. collected upon t~e horofc,ope, and the two planets, that are fignifica..
tors of the parties, are found applying to each other in a conjuncti~n,
and in common or fixed figns, the marriage may probably take place in
fome length of time. If the fignificators are pofited in moveable figns,
angular, and approaching fwift in motion to a conjunction, it may then
be confummated in a very ihort time; but, if the fignificators are fepara-.
ted from a conjunction only a few minutes of a degree, one may fafely
conclude that there has been great probabili~y, only a few days .befoce,
that the wedding_would have taken place; but by this afpea the parties
appear to be hanging in fufpence, and fome diflike or change of fenti-
ment feems to have taken place : and, as the fignificators gradually. (epa-
rate from the partile and· platic conjunCtions, in ·the fame gradation will
the treaty and affeCtions of the parties alienate and wear . ·
the c_ompara~ivc time that the afpefl: will occupy ~fife it
fo wdl the t1me be fo many weeks, months, or yearn
thall wholly rclinquilh the connexion. ~:>
2
,.
oigitizedby Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
PRoHIBITION indicates the fiate of two planets that are fignificators
of fome event, or the bringing of fome bufinefs to an iffue or conclufion,
and are applying to each other by conjunction; but, before fuch conjunc-
tion can be formed, a third planet, by means of a fwifter motion, inter-
pofes his body, and defiroys the expected conjunaion, by forming an
afpeet himfelf; and this indicates that the matter under contemplation
will be greatly retarded, or utterly prevented. For example, fuppofe
Mars was pofited in feven degrees of Aries, Saturn in twelve degrees,
and the Sun in fix degrees, of the C1me fign; Mars is the fignificator of
the bufinefs in hand,_and promifes the ilfue or completion of it fo foon ·
as he comes to a conjunction with Saturn; but the Sun, being fwifter in
motion than Mars, pa1fes him, and prevents their conjunction, by forming
the afpea himfelf. This indicates, that whatever was expected from the
approaching conjunction of Mars and Saturn is now prohibited by the
Sun's firft impediting Mars and then Saturn; and this is termed a conjunc-
tional or bodily prohibition. There is alfo· a prohibition by afpea, either
fextile, quartile, trine, or oppofition; and this happens when two pla-
nets are going into conjunCtion. Suppofe Mars to ,be in feven degrees of
Aries, Saturn in thirteen degrees of the fame fign, and the Sun in five
degrees of Gemini; the Sun, being fwifter than Mars in his diurnal mo-
tion, will quickly overtake him, and pafs by the fextile dexter of Mars,
and form a fextile dexter with Saturn, before Mars can reach him; by
this means their conjunaion is prohibited.
FRUSTRATioN imports a fwift or light planet approaching to an
afpea with one more flow and ponderous; but, before they can approach
near enough to form that afpect, the weig~ty planet is joined to fome
other, by which the firft afpect is fruftrated. i To inftance this. fuppofe
Saturn pofttcd in fixteen degrees of Gemini, ]upiter in fifteen degrees of
Leo, and Mars in eleve~ degrees of the fame fign; here Mars applies to
a conjuntlion with Jupiter, but, before he can reach it, Jupiter meets
a fext)le afpea from Saturn, which fruftrates the conjunCtion of Mars~
and, in pradice, utterly deftroys whatever was promi{ed by it.
REFRANATION is the ftate of a planet in direct motion, applying to
an afpcct or conjunBion with another planet, but before they can meet
becomes retrograde, and thus refrains to form the afpeCl: expeaed. Sup-
pofe· Jup" :e in the tW!!lfth degree of Gemini, and Mars in the eighth;
hc:re .a.1ars, dlefwifter planet, romifes very foon to overtake Jupiter, and
form a conjunaion with him; but juft at the inftant falls retrograde,
and t' frains from the conjun ion, by taking an oppofite courfc from
Jupi
T&ANiLATION
Digitized by Coogle
f
~ 150 A N I L L U S T R .A 'r l 0 .N
""-~~ · · T.R.,ANSLATION of LIGHT and NATURE. This happens when a light
'\i{ planet feparates from a weighty one, and joins with another more pon-
~ derous, and is effeaed in this manner: let Saturn he placed in twenty
'l. 1 .degrees of Aries, Jupiter in thirteen degrees, and Mars in fourt~en de-
)~ ~ grees, of the fame fign; here Mars feparates from a conjunCtion with Ju-
~ piter, and tranflates the light and nature of that planet to Saturn, to whom
" he next applies. The effect of this in practice will be, that,. if a matter or
· ~ thing be promifed by Saturn, then whoever was reprefented by Mars
~ . iliall procure all the affiftance that the benevolent planet Jupiter could
~ befrow, and tranflate it to Saturn, whereby the bufinefs in hand would be
~,
:~
~ the better effe?l;ed, and more happily concluded; and this, being a very
\~ fortunate pofition of the planets, is very proper to be known, fince it pro..
JDifes much ~n law-fuits, marriages, and all other queftions of the kind.
....
RECEPTION is when two planets, that are fignificators in any queftion
or nativity, are pofited'in each other's dignity, as the Sun in Aries, and
Mars in Leo, which is a reception by houfes, and is deemed the mofi:
~werful and efficacious of all receptions. But reception may be by ex-
change of tripJicity, term, or phafe, or by any effential dignity; as Venus ·
in Aries, and the Sun in Taurus,.is a reception by triplicity, if the quef-
tion Ot" nativity happen by day. Or if Venus be in the twenty-fourth
degree of.Aries, and Mars in the fixteenth .degree of Gemini, it is are-
ception by terms. The u{e of thefe pofitions, in praCtice is confiderable .i.
for, fuppofe the event of any queftion required be denied by the afpeCts;-
or the fignificators arc in no afpeCt with each other; or it is doubtful
what may happen from a quartile or oppofition of the fignifi.cators; yet.
if the pr~ncipal fignificators are found in mutual receptio~, th~ .thing
defired w1ll fhortly come to pafs, and probably to the fattsfacbon and
content of all the parties concerned. ·
P~REGlUNATlON defcribes a planet to be fituated in a fign; or in
fuch certain degrees of a fign, where it has no effential dignity, either
by houfe, exaltation, triplicity, term, or phafe; as Saturn in the tenth
degree of Aries, is peregrine; and the Sun in any part of Cancer, is
peregrine, having no dignity whatever in that fig'n. In all quefi:ions of
theft, it is very material to know the peregrine.planet; for it has been
uniformly found, by almoft every regular profeffor of this Art, that the
!hief may be al~oft conftantly _
difcovered by the peregr·n met pofited
'ln an angle, or 1n the fecond boufe.
CoMBUSTION is the ftate of a planet, hen fituated wit11n dght e-.
grees ~irty minutes of the body of the Sun, either be~J•.!< ·h'~"vC him.
Suppofe Mercury jn the twenty-firft degree, the Sun in the y-fifth"
degree.:
_
\
c
0 F' A ·s T R 0 L 0 G Y.
degree, and Venus in the twenty-(cventh degree of Aquaries; here
Mercury and Venus would be both combuft; but Venus would be
more affeth:d by it than Mercury, becaufe the Sun applies to or moves
towards Venus, and recedes from Mercury, whereby his rays affiitt her
more forcibly on his nearer approach, and become weaker upon Mercury
by his reeds from him.
CAZIMI reprefents a planet in the heart of the Sun; that is, if a planet
be only feventeen minutes before or after the Sun, as if the Sun were in
fifteen degrees thirty minutes of Taurus, and Mercury in fifteen degrees
twenty minutes of the fame fign, Mercury would be then in cazimi, or
in the heart of the Sun. All authors agree that a planet in dzimi is for-
tified thereby, and is of greater efficacy; whereas a planet in combuftion
is of a malignant nature. If the fignificator of a querent, or perfon pro-
pounding a quefti_on, be combuft, it thews him or her to be under fearful
apprehenfions, and threatened to be over-powered, or greatly injured, by
fome fuperior perfon. It fhould be carefully obtcrved, that all planets
may be in combuftion _with the Sun, but the Sun cannot be in combuftion
with any planet; and that combuftion can only be by perfonal conjunc-
iion in one fign, ·and not by any afpeet, either fextile, quartile, trine, or
oppofition; the Sun's quartile or oppofite afpetts are affiiHing, but they do
not combure, or render the planet combuft. A planet is always confi..
dered under the fun-beams, until he is elongated feventeen degrees before
or after his body.
VoiD oF CouRsE, is when -a planet is feparated from another planet,
and does not, during its continuance in that fign, form an afpett with any
other. This moft ufually happens with the Moon; and in practice, it is
obferved, that, if the fignificator of the thing propounded be void of
courfe, the bufinefs under contemplation will not fucceed, nor be attend--
ed with any fatisfaCl:ory or pleafing confequences.
BESIEGING, lignifies a p!anet fitu~ted betwixt the two ~alevolent pla...
nets Satur~ and·Mars; for mftance, 1f Saturn were placed m the twelfth
degree of Aries, Mars in the fixteenth, and Jupiter in the fourteenth, de-
gree1 Jupiter would then be befiegcd by Saturn and Mars.
. .
-lNCREAStNC IN LIGHT, is when ·a planet is feparating from the Sun
or the Sun from a planet; thus the Moon, at her greateft diftance_ from
the Sun,•appears with the greateft degree of light, having her whole
Qrb illumined.
No. 8, L 1 ORIENTAL
I
Digitized by Coogle
..·
AN ILLUSTRATION .
ORIENTAL and OcciDENTAL. A planet, when oriental, rifes before
the Sun; and, when occidental, fets after him, and is feen above the hori-
zon after the Sun is down; confequently, when a planet is oriental, it is
pofited in the eaft, and when occidental, in the weft.
SuPERioRs and INFERIORS. Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, are difi:in..
/ guithed by the name of the fuperior, ponderous, and more weighty, pla-
,1
;;i nets; and Ve,nus, Mercury, and the Moon, are called the inferior planets.
4 A fuperior always governs or over-rules an inferior; this is an obferva-
.
. tion that holds good throughout the whole fyfiem of nature•
SwiFT oF CouRsE, is when a planet moves farther than his mean
motion in twenty-four hours; and he isjJIJw qfcour.fo when he moves lefs
than his mean moti~n in the fame portion of time.
ALMUTION, fignifies a planet that bears principal rule in a fign or fi-
gure; which planet mufi. confequently have the moft e.lfential dignities.
HAvz, impli,es a mafculine diurnal planet to be fituated above the
horizon in the day-time, or a feminine nocturnal planet pofited below the
horizon in the night-time; which is an accidental fortitude the planets
delight in, and gives a favourable omen in all figures wherever they are
fouad. -
LoNGITUDE and LATITUDE. The longitude of any ftar or plar:tet,
is the degree of the ecliptic or Zodiac in w.hichi they are £ound,.numbered .
from the firft point of the f~gn Aries. TIH latitude of a ftar, or planet,,
is its difian(:e north or fouth from the Sun's path or- ec},j.p.tic line, nu.m-
bered by the degrees of the meridian.
DEcLINATION, is the difiance a planet fwerves either north or fouth.,.
from the equator or equinoCtial line, in his circuit through the twelve
ftgns of the Zodiac. ·
RIGHT Asc:ruuitON, is the number of degrees and' minu.tes of the
equinoCtial line,.. reckoned from the· beginni.og .of Ar.ics, and. comes to.
the meridian with the Sun, Moon, ftar, or planet, or any portion of the
ecliptic. , .
0BLIQ.!JE AscENSION, is the degree and minute of the equinoCl:ial
·Jine, that comes to, or rifes with, the degree of longitude of any &ar or
planet in the horizon; or it is the degree of the equinoctial line that
comes to the horizon with any ftar or planet in an oblique fphere.
. OBLIQYE
Digitized by Googl~
OF · A -STROLOGY. 153
OBI.IQ.YE DEsCENSION, is the degree of the equinoCtial line that fets
in the horizon, with the degree of longitude of any ftar or planet, in an •
oblique fphere; rmking an obliqoe angle with the horizon.
AscENSIONAL DtJ'J'EXE-NCE, is the _diftiodion between fhe right and
oblique afcenfion of any planet or fi:ar, reckoned in the equator.
PoLE oF PosiTioN, :lignifies the elevation of the pole& of the worJd
above the circle of pofition of any fi:ar or planet. .
CIRCLES OJ' PosiTrON, are' circles JYclffing throngh the common )D•
terfeetions of the horizon and meridi<m, and through any degree of the·
ecliptic, or the centre of any fiar, or other point in the heavens; and are
ufed for finding the fitua&ion or pofition <:>f any ftar or plane-t..
HoitoscoPE, is a figure or fcheme of the twelve houfes of heaven,
wherein the planets and pofitions of the heavens are colleCted for any
given time, either for the purpofe of caiGUlating nativities, or anfwering
horary queftions. It alfo fignifies the degree or point of tlre heavens; ri-
fing above the eaftern poj.nt of the hori~on, at any givcur time when a
prediaion is tli> be made of any futute event; but this is aow- moft com-
monly diftinguiihed by the name of the Afcendant.
CoLouRs. The colours given by, c:>r peculiar to, each of the planets
and figris, ·is of great importance in the determination of all quefi:ions
where the complexion of a p~rfon or the colour of a thin~ is nccetfary
to be known. The-mder mutt therefore be c:rreful to· tetnem~tr, that of
the planets, Saturn gives a black colour; Jl!-piter, red mixed with green;
Mars, a red fiery colour; the Moon, all white fpotted, or light mixed
colours; Venus, white and purple colours; Mercury,. light blue or
azure colour; the Sun, all yello.w colours, or inclined to purple. Of the
twelve figns, Aries gives a white mixed with red; Taurus, white
mixed with citron; Gemini, white mixed with red; Cancer, green
or tu.fkt; f.~, red' or gretn; Virgo, black fpeekfe& with· blue·; Li-~
bra, black or dark crimfon, or· fwarthy eotour; Scorpio, dark brown; Sa-
gittary, yellow, or a green fanguine colour; Capricorn, black or ruf-
fet; Aquaries, ·light blue or fky-colour; Pifces, a glillening light co-
lour. Thus, by knowing the aolour .or comple~on attribtited to each
of the planets and figns, it is eafy to aetermine the complexion of the
native, or of any perfon or thing enquired after; for, as the complexion
or colour of the lord of the afcendant, or the fign, or fignificators, are, :/=
that »eprefont the party, fuch will be their colour or complexion. So if
it be a1ked concerning two cocks jull going to pit, Which fuall be the ./
· 2 . winner ? '
o;gitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
. ·winner? Erea the figure, and the two planets reprefen~ing the diilin-
guithing colours of the two cocks filall be their .fignificators, and that
planet which is the fuperior, or has the mofi: e1fential dignities, and is
moft ftrongly fortified, £hall by his colour point out the cock that ihall
win his battle. So of any other queftion determinable by colours.
Abd fince this Art cannot be underftood, nor the work read with any
pleafurc or improvement, without a perfea and familiar knowledge of
all the charaEtcrs peculiar to the figns, planets, &c. I llull illfert them
in this place all together, that they may be at any time referred to with ·
eafc; recommending at the fame time to all my readers, not to proceed
any fur-ther till they have learned them by heart.
CHARACTERS reprefenting the TWELVE SIGNS of the ZODIAC
DRAGoN's HEAD, DRAGoN's TAIL, and PART of FoRTUNE. •
. .
Aries
Taurus
Gemini
Cancer
Leo
Virgo
Libra
;"i' I Scorpio
r 1:S ISagittary
!n Capricorn
a Aquaries
st. Pifces
-~ I Dragon's Head
·.a. Dragon's Tail
The Part of Fortune .~.
-
-
CHARACTERS ~ ~ PLANET~
Saturn·
Jupiter
Mars
!". I
:11-
-~
The Sun
Moon
Venus
Mercury
e.
:»'
l :
C H A R A C T E R S diftingui£hing the fcveral AS P E C T S of the
. PLANETS.
Sextile :* I Trine
~artile o Oppofition
And the ConjunCtion .s •
EXPLANATION
Digitized by Coogle
OF ASTROLOGY. ik,
EXPLANATION of the-TWELVE HOUSES o£ HEAVEN, with·-•...,,_
· DIRECTIONS for erefling the HOROSCOPE. ' ...._
HAVING thewn whet the efi"ential qu21itiea are1 which the planets
and heavenly matter ~erive from an inherent priDCiple of nature. it
follows that I lhould explain the accidental qualities they receitf by their
different pofitions in the twelve houfes of heaven; for,.as. the heavens
are perpetuaUy in motion, either afcending or dcfcellding, ·.and Goa; it is
beyond the reach of human pcnetr.ation to define what fiar or planet lhall
afcend at the nativity of children yet u-nborn, fo, in reference to human
ideas, it is purely accidental wlat djgnities the planets filall atquire, or
what houfes th~y ihall be pofited in at the time of birt~ · · .
That the reader may form a competent idea of what is meant by the
.twelve houfes of heaven, let ua fuppofe the whole celeftial globe, or
fp~ere of heaven, divided into four equal parts by the horizon and meri-
dional lioe, and each of tbefe into four quadrants, and eacb quadrant
into thr~e equal ;>.arts, by lines drawn from points ctf fecHons in ·different
parts of the honzon a.nd meridian equi-diftant from eaeb other. By ~his
operation, the whole globe or fphere will be apportioned into twelve
equal parts, which conftitute what we call, th~ twefut hol!ft.stf heaven.
And thefe houfes, as obfervation and experience abundantly filew, make
up that grea~ ~heel of nature, whereon depends the various fortunes con..
tingent to all fublunary matters and things.
In this divifion of the heavens, the.flrft quadrant is defcribcd by a pa-
rallel line, drawn from the point of the eaft angle to the fouth, or mid-
heaven; and contains the twelfth, eleventh, and tenth, houfes, called the·
oriental. vernal, mafculine,· fanguine infant quarter. . The fecond qua-
drant is defcribed by a fimilar line, r~nning from the exterior point of the
midheaven to the point of the weftern angle, and contains the ninth,
·eighth, and feventh, houfes, called the meridian, eftival, feminine,
youthful, choleric:, quarter; The third quadrant is .formed by .a parallel .
Jine running from the u:treme poiot of the eighth houfc to the riord;l
a.ogleJ and CQntains the fixtb, fifth, aod fourth, boufes, .called th~ oeci,.
demal, autu~nnal, mafculine, melancholic, manly, celd and dry, qua.r..
ter. Tbe f~rth quadrant is defcribed by a lioe drawn from. the extreme
poin.t of the north an,te to tbe e~tre01ity of the line which defcribes·
the firtt quadr~ot, . both moeling in theeaft angle Qf the heav.t:ns_
, and con...' ··
rain$ tb<: l.hird, fecond, and firft, houfes, called tbe northern, wintery,
feminine. pblcgmatK, qp•rter, the feat of old ag.e, decrepitude, and
decay. The lin~s tbue drawn defcribe chc following figure, or horo..
fcop~, inlo whicb tbe ugns and plan~t• are fcve.-.ally introduced, and r~
No•.8. . M ~ . . pre.G:n&ed
Digitized by Coogle
..
AN ILLUSTRATION
prefented as,in their ttue places in thebeav:ns, before any queftion can be
tolved, or nativity cal,culated. The fpace m !he ce?tre, were the figure
drawn circular, migh.t reprefent the vacuum m wh1ch the earth moves;
but it is generally ufed to write down the day, year, and hour of the day,
when the figure was erected, with the purpofe of it, whether for a nat~~
•ity or cpeftion refolved. . . .
FIGURE of the HOROSCOPE. or TwELVE HousEs of HEAVEN••
~"' '/ ;,_,\ /
~~ - ·
\5>
~~
" -· .t
'
~~ . ?--"
.~ ,.~ .
:
,"· ..../
1:
'
-to
~
\F~
I~ "'~.
~
'fhefe twelve houfes are each. diftinguilhed by their refpective figures,
and 11re either angular,fuctedent, or cadent. The angular houfes are four,
called the afcendant, midheaven or medium c~li, the feventh houfe, and
1he bottom of the heaven; thefe arc deemed the mofr powerful and moft
for&unate houfes. The fuccedent houfes arc the eleventh, fecond, eighth,·
and fifth; and arc ranked next in force and virtue to the angles. The
third clafs, or cadent houfes, arc the third, twelfth, ninth, and fixth; and
arc confidered of the lcaft efficacy of them all. But, notwithftanding they
are divided into only three cla1fes, or orders, whereby their force and ef..:.
ficacy are eftimated, yet there is .a regular gradation in this refpett running
through the whole, whereby one houfe is fubordinate to the other, froa1
firft to laft. Confidered in this order, they ftand thus:
I 10 7 4- I I 5 9 3 2 8 6 12
According
Digitized by Coogle
OF A·STROLOGY.
According to this rule, if we find two planets, equally ftrong and ,
of the fame dignities, one p'ofited in the firft houfe and the other .in the
tenth, we judge the ·planet in the firft houfe, or afcendant, to have fupe-
ricrity over the planet in the tenth.houfe; and, in practice," we infer, from
fuch a pofition, that the perfon, whofo fignificator was in the firft houf=,
would get the better of his opponent, whofe fignificator was in the tenth
honfe; but, both being fo nearly equal in point of dignity, great flrug:.
gles and difficulties would intervene, as the nature ·of the cafe in point
may' happen to be. This rule holds good from the, tenth houfe to the
feventh; the feventh to the fourth, and fo on through the whole; but
it fuould always be remembered that planets in angles, that is, ·thofe
whi!=~ are feated in the angular houfes. are the moft forcible andpotent in
their operation. ·
The firft houfe,.. which is denoted by the figure I, is called the afi:en-
Jant, becaufe, the point of its angle being level with the horizon, what-
ever planet afcends from under the earth muft afcend upon this line, and
become vifible firft in this houfe. The line upon which the planets
a{cend, or move, is.caiTed the cufp of the 4oufes; and that of the afcen-
dant is generalJy rec ed o extend about five degrees above the earth
and twenty-five degrees beneath, ready to afcend. But, if figns of long
afcenfions a(! end, then half five d grees above the earth, and thirteen be-
low, aliri
·'utm.oft limits. If figns of fuort afcenfions afcend, then five
degrees ove the horizon, and fifty degrees below, are ufually allowed. ·
Now t quality of whatfo~ver part of the heavens occupies or fills up the
degree f this houfe, carries along with it the health, life, and nature, of
every infant or thing that is conceived or brought fo~th within its jurifdic-
tion. -
And hence hath this point of t·he heavens a faculty of attraCting ot
receiving the virtues of the celeftial matter that is accidentally afcending
in that part of heaven at the birth; and alfq of the planets and fixed ftars
in their tranfits; and all the rays of the planets, in their afpeCts and con-
junCtions, are· attracted into this part of heaven, in order to the formation
ofthe lhape, ftature, temperature of the body. quality of the mind, and all
accidents and contingencies which lhall befal the native's body, or health,
or .life, unto his dying day;· fuch a fympathy i& there between this part
of the heavenly frame and of· every act and thing that is produced or
· ·that receives life under it. For, as the feed in the ground, after it has
taken root,- buds forth, and appears above ground, fo the heavenly in-
telligencers, after they have framed the embryo, and the temperament
thereof, under the earth, give it life and being of its own, putting forth
.level with them juft as they afcend. We do not however fuppoie, that
the temperature and qualities of the natiYe were wholly framed at the exact
1 'time
Digitized by Coogle
~·
AN ILLUSTRATION
t
time of birth, although the fituation of the heavens-at that time never
fails exaCtly to defcribe them J we have every rcafon tt~)bclieve, that the
temperature and qualities of the body, and the di{pofition: of the mind.
are formed in regular gradations from the conception to the time of birth;
but that the birth defcribes them is indifputably clear, becaufe it can.
not happen at any moment of time, io any part of the world, but it mutl
fall eve'n with that part of the heavenly matter afcending from the lower
unto the upper horizon, which is intereA:cd in, and therefore points out,
thofe temperatures and qualities. .For any man to be fatis6ed in this
point, Jet him but note what the nature of this afcending point of bea.
ven is, with all the ftars and planets pouted therein, or having afpeCl:
with them from other houfes, giving each of them their due weight and
influence, according to their nature and dignity, neither ftrained-ooe way
nor the other; and, j uft as thefe are found at the time of birth, jull.fo
lhall be found the qualities and endowments of that native, with the
principal aRions and ev~nts C?f hi~ life,, which this point akending takes
!_11e charge of. An~ 1n th1s trtal wdl the reader find more fubllttntial
proofs of the truth and exillence of Afttology than fhe molt: aeute argg.
ments can infiil into his mind. ·
Now, fince the 6rft houfe, or a(cendant, gives birth and lif.e to the Dl• •
tive, it follows that thofe houfes which are the attendant• oa atad up.
h.olders of life, thou1d bejoined with it; and, as children, or ~e native's
offspring, are ~·he upholder$ of life in this world, and religion and learn-
ing the grand means of upholding it unto eternity in tho other world, {o
the houfes, which contribute thefe bleffinge to the life already ginn; arc
. joined in an harmonious trine with the firtl: houfe, making up that thrcs.
fold cord, which, as Solomon !aitll, Clll'l ntvtr !Je 6roken; the one is a
fuccedent houfe, called the fifth houfc, and th• other a cadent houfe.,
called the ninth houfe ;- and,.to be convinced o( the eft'e~s of tbis fifth
houre; note the heavenly matter, planets, ftars, and afpcth, therein po..
fited at the time of birth, according to the rules h~re laid down, and they
lhall truly r~prefent the number and ftate of the native•a offspring, and
all other particulars relative to children, and to breeding or barren women.
,~-So alfo examine the ftate of the~ houfc; and, as that reprefenta.
{o lhall the native be in refpett o(.:;lligion and fcien~ s far the heavenly
' _ mat.ter, planets, ftars, and afpech therein, fualllhew what and hDw the
man iliall proye, whetaer wife or foolilh, ·dcvaut or fchi(matical, and
what 1\udy or occupation he fuall be inclined tO follow: and thefc fur..
niili matter for grace Jo work upon; but, as for grace itfelf, natu~ can
have no power over it; grace may rule nature, but natare cannot {way
grace..
The
Digitized by Coogle
.
,.
OF ASTR.OLO.G'Y.
Th~ fecond angular poin~ of the houfes of heaven is called the mid-
heaven, which is that point which culminates, being the very top or
higheft point of the heavenly frame. And, whatever part of the heavens
happens to be culminating in this point at the birth of any perfon or
thing, that takes charge of, and carries along with it, ever after, the pre-
ferment, honour, profeffion, fituation, and authority, of th~· native; and, '
as the nature of the planets, ftars, afpetb, and heavenly matter, happens
to be, that are fituated in this point, or in the degrees pertaining to it, '
fo 1hall the nat[ve·prove in his life-time, in point of dignity, adv~ncement,
and reputation, in this world, whether high or low, fortunate or unfor-
tunate, favoured or difgraced. The attendants upon, and upholders of~
man•s honour and dignity, as the Scriptures and every day"s experience
perpetually fl1ew us, are wealth and fervants. The firft of thefe is at-
.tached to the tnidheaven in a fuccedeot houfe, called the fecond houfe of
heaven; and the other in a cadent houfe, called the fixth houfe of heaven;
and thefe two are fituated in an harmonious trine with the angular point
of the midheaven. And now well obferve what the planets, ftars, af-
pell:s, and heavenly matters, are in either of thefe houfes at the time of
birth, and fuch fiull the . native•s fortune prove in point of riches and
fubordinate dependants; in the firft of thefe houfes for wealth, and in
the other for fervan~s or dependants.
The third angl~ of the figure of heaven is the feventh houfe, or point
of ~he heavens and deg_rees contingen~, which are always deften1ing,.or
fettmg out of our horizon, and finkmg under the earth; and thts pomt
is d1rell:ly oppofite to the eaftern angle or afcendant. Now, as the rifing
heaven, or afcendant, is the beginning and conduit of life, fo this fet-
ting heaven, level with the afcendant, is the bringing all mundane
affairs level with life, fuch as our entrance into the ftate of marriage;
our contracts and enterprifes in bufinefs, war, and travel; and our con-
nections and fuccefs therein, whether with friends, ftrangers, or enemies;
and thefe whether honeft men, parafites, or thieves. And the heavenly
matter, planets, .fiars, and afpell:s, fituated in this angle at anativity, appa-
rently 1hew ho·w a man 1hall fare in refped: to wives, more or lefs, any or
none, good or bad; and, in matters of bufinefs or adventure, how fortu-
nate or unfortunate he may be likely to prove; and, with enemies or
thieves, how far he is likely to be injured by them. Nece1fary upholders
of marriage, fupporters in trade and travel, and defenders againft thieves,
;lunderers, and enemies, are friends, relations, and neighbours. And
tbefe, jn a trine to the feventh houfe, are brought forth, the firft out of
the eleventh houfe of heaven, a fuccedent houfe, and the other out of the
third houfe of heaven, a cadent houfc. The eleventh houfe, by the pla-
No. 8. N n nets.
Digitized by Coogle
J6Cil .AN . ILL·USTR·A-TlON
nets, llare,. afpects, and he~venly matter_. . therein. points out the ftare-of
a man's friends and hopes in th-is life; -and the thlrd houfe defcribes, by
the fame means, how h~ppy or unhapp7 a man 1hall prove in hi' rela-
~ions, connedions, ·aod neighbours. . · . ·
The lail: angle of heaven is the fourth hoafe, called the bottom of
heaven, and reprefents that point which in our conception feems to hang
at th¢ very bottom or the round ball of the eclelHal world, being diame- .
trically oppoftte to the exterior, or midheaven-. And, as that thews. whac
a man in the courfe of nature fuall rife to in ·the world, this, on the con~
ttary, declares what and when iliatl be hls fall, decay, and death. This
houf~ has therefore 1ignification of the end of every worldly concern.
and, amongft othCf" ends, of the grave, which is the end of all men liv.
ing, ~owever dignified or great. And the planets, ftars, and a{pech.. po-
uted in this houfe at the time· of birth, never fail to lhew.what kind or
end the native i~ likely to.find; for, as the twelve figns have each their
partitular and vifible effects upon _and over eve_ry part of man's body, and
as the planets and th~ir afped:s thew in what fign the native ihall be im-
ledited, that is, in what part of the body the root of his natunl infirmity
filall be placed, and what accidents fuall befal him during life:. fo is it
an eafy procefs to point out the manner of his death, and whether natural. .
honourable, or ignominious. The upholders of this angle are the houfes
of tribulation and death; .the one a fuccedent houfe, called the eighth
houfe, or boufe of death; and the other a cadent houfe, called the twelfth
houfe. And now let it be carefully obferved what planets, Aars, aipeds,·
and heavenly matter, occupy thofe houfes at the time of nativity; and
tbey iliall point out, in the twelfth houfe, all the principal misfortunes,
afiliEHons, and tribulations, of the native's life., and .in the eighth boule
'the time and manner of his death. . · ·.
.Independent ot the faculties hitherto fpecinecl, each o'f tbefe.houfes of
heaven have other 1ignificators and effeCts, which they demooarate 'in
various other ways- . For inllahce, the aicendant re.pr-efents the native
coming into the world, and the fourth houft at .the fame t'ime repre~
fents the parents_of the native ;goif\& out.; for onegeneration goes ojf, antl
.another always comes inf, according to the courfe of nature. Of thefe
parents~ the father is more efpeci~lly f.lgnifie~d Qy the fQurth houfe,
and then, .fecondarily, but not {o fordb~y, the mot'her of the native is fig-
nified by the ·tenth boufe, a~d the grandfather by the feventh.; abd uncle$,
aunts, aod relatioaa, on the fatlaer's fide, by the iixth; and uncles,&unts.
• Digitized by Coogle
"Q: F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
and rolati'ons, on tbe mother•s fade, by the twelfth. Hence al(o itcames
to pafs, that by the fourth hoafe ace fignified boufes and lands,and all de.-
gcees of patrimony, left by the fAther; and by tbceightb houfeare.lhewn
aU goods and legacies ieft by will of the deceafed. The fecond and fixth
houfes in half-trine to the boule of the grave, and in oppofition to the
e.ightll and twelfth. have a fecondary 6gni6catioo of fickneft and dath.
Such are the qualities and pPU.atioos of the twelve houfes of heaveo
in the oommon coucfc .of natllt"C; but thefe qualities arc .tOmetimes 184..
t.eria1ty altered, aoochan_ged for the better« worfe, by means either of
th·e Moon or fomc other of the celclHal'motions or affeCtions. It is cer-
tain that the Moon circleth the earth once in every twenty-eight days; but
in this perambulation lhe neither keeps the Sun's pathway in the ecliptic,
nor c.oatinues 4er ®Ur(e oooftantly -oR the fame fide of it; but once in
every fourteen days file croffes the ecliptic, aJurnatcly to her north. and
fouta declination; Uld it.is found by long and coJTed: obicrvati.on, thac
the point in the heavens where lhe crofies this line is very fi:roogJy af.
fed-eel by he£ motion. The Moon is the greet body of lif~ and growth;
aad. whea fue pa«es the ecliptic to the north~ which brings her cearcr
iRto.,his northern workf:, Qx UlCil gives BDextraormaary degree of frQi(.
fulaels~ which woadccfuUy ftr.ea-,tbena with its ilaiuema: w.ha~'et'
h~s withia tae line <>f its jurifdid:ion. And thia poitu, wbere11-er it
faUs. is caUed t·bc Mooa's north node, but ia ·ditl:inguUbcd in aftr.ological
W«ks by the name of the Dragon~·s Head, as already ex,lained ia page
J 25. If this point ha.ppcns 10 afcend in a nativity~ it R~tacas life with
a r.a.buft and lively OGD.ttitutia.a; if it falls in the midbca¥en; it promues
great honoUl' and .pre.f.ermeot; if in the eJevcath ho.ufc, prefperity aad
riches.. l.f Ju:piter or Venus:happen to be ia thcfe degrees, it makes them
much £k0»ger aDd more dicaciou-a ia their bene\'.o.leat ~ations; but..
if .Sat-urn or Mars be pcill.ted there, it gi~ea them, on the contr,ary. a
ftronger .inclination ·to prevc mifchicvous &ud ufortuaatc. Wae.a tla
Moon .intcrfcCtii the ~iptic line to ·her foutherJl dccliaatio.D. fue iea.-ea
that point of .the acallcns ·wher-e ~ croff~s i.t. w.hic.R is termed the Dra-
gon's Tail, as barren to all intents and purpofes as tqc other was fruitful. ,
Hence .(his peint afcending .at a ·naLi-vjty Wemdhes Jif.e. ami leaves a ftain
upon it• impairs hom>Ur and ad¥ancement in ~be midllea.ven, .and ~waftea
riobes, and br-ings .advc-.rfitf, ia the elewmth houfe; and ·it wea.k-elli as well
. the benevolent a .ufpicca Gf J.upi~r &llG Venus u ·the ·evil -io.clinations ~
SataJ\11 and .Mar~. How ,thcfc circomftances operate bcyonu the,equ•n~­
tial, cKpet~oc it 1et filcnt; but it fecms reafonablc ·to fuppofe that the
Dngoo':S Tail.is ·there ~c f.r.uilful pDint, aod the Head ·the bauen ·point.
fiDDC, when the Moon is:goiag·o1f fmm.us,ltar.wlu~Ciauft Pc,.coQlin.c /
011 with them.
· Next
Digitized by Coogle
t62 AN ILLUSTRATI"t>N
Next to the nodes, the Part of Fortune has its operation~ upon thefe
twelve celeftial houfes. The point, which we term the Part of. Fortune,
is the diftance of the Moon's place from the Sun's, added to the degrees
of the afcendant; and the nature of it is, as conftant obfervation afcer-
tains, that, if this point falls among fortunate ftars, or in afortunate part
of the heavens, theh it promifes great fuccefs in health or.wea~th, honour
or <?ffspring, or any other fpecies of profperity, according as it is feated .
either in the firft, eleventh, or fifth, houfes, or in any others.. The rea-
fon of this appears to be, that the Sun, Moon, and Afcendant, being tbe
prime conduits through which the ftream of life flo~s, this feat of the
Part of Fortune is the harmony o! all three concentering and uniting in
the fame aCts of benevolence.
Now, befides thefe, there are yet other qualities, accidentally affected,
which concern either particular perfons or times. Thus, the places of
Saturn, or Mars, or the Tail of the Dragon, in the vernal figure, are un-
fortunate in the higheft degree for the whole of that year; or, if they
happen in any of the quarter figures, they portend afHiCl:ion and mif- -
fortune for that quarter. But the places of Jupiter and Venus in aver-
nal figure are as fortunate as the others are unfortunate for the fame time.
The places of an eclipfe of the Sun or Moon, and of the ·comets, arc alfo
fortunate or unfortunate, as their fituation may be, or as perfons, coun-
tries, or ftates, may be concerned in them. The place of Saturn or Mars
in a man's nativity proves unfortunate to him all the days of his life; and
the place in either of them in a revolutional figure is equally bad for that
year. .But the place of Jupiter or Venus in a nativity, or in a revolu-
tional figure; is always as fortunate, either for a man's life-time, or for
the year, as the other is unfortunate. Alfo the places of the twelfth
houfc, or eighth, or fixth, as they were in the native fchome, have always
bad fignifications unto a man, whenfoever they come up upon any of his
concerns. And the places of the tenth houfe, of the eleventh, of the
afcendant, and of the fccond houfe, generally promife as much good ~s
the other houfes do evil upon all the·common occafions of life.
Thus far we have feen the operations of the twelve houfes of heaven,_
as they appertain to the time and circuanftances of a nativity. We fuall
now explain their .properties in that fyftem of nature upon which the
doilrine of horary queftions is grounded. And fuch has been the induf-'
try :md indefatigable labour of our forefathers, in bringing this fcience to
maturity, and in difcovering and diftinguifuing the particular fignifications
and effeCts of all pofitions of the plagets in thefe twelve houfes of bc;aven.,
that whoever takes·the pains to inform himfelf fufficicntly of them will
1 on
Digitized by Coogle
OF A S -T R 0 L 0 G Y.
not be in want of competent grounds whereon to judge, or give ration~l
anfwers to every interrogation or quefiion on the common occurrepces of
, life, or any contingent accidents or uqdertakings, with the confequ~:nces
and fuccefs of them.
The 'fidl: houfe bears lignification of the life of man, and ·of the fta• .~
ture, colour, complexion, form, and lhape, of him who propound's a q uef- ~
tion; and, as all the viciffitudes· of nature depend upon the periods of
man's life, fo all queftions are refolved by this houfc that relate to fick- ~
nefs, health, or long life; and alfo all accidents by which life may be en. "-~
dangered or impaired; what part of one's days will be the moll: happy ~.
CJnd profperous; whether any abfent friend or relation be living or dead;"-.~ '
or whether any journey, voyage, or lhip at fea, will he attendtd with fuc- ~
cefs and fafety, or meet with any accident fatal to life, or defirutl:ive to
the ihip. In lhort, all quefi:ions relating to circumft,,nces that
atfeet life are to be anfwered from the firft houfe. In ftate-afirology,
and jn eclipfes, great <
:onjunCtions, appearances of comets, and other lu-
minous and extraordinary phenomena in the heavens, and upon the Sun'~
annual ingrefs into the equinoClial fign Aries, the firfi hou'e bears figni.:
fication of the community at large, or of that ftate, empire, or kingdom,
whue the figure is ereBed. Of colours, ·the firfi: houfe gives a white; -
from which is to be underfiood, that, if a plan·et be pofited in this houfe
that-governs a light colour, and a qu::fiion be propounded from any party
relative to a perfon, matter, or thing, where colours are concerned, and
this planet be the ugnificator thereof, then the perfon's complexion and
hair, or, if cattle, then their colour, lhatl be of a white, pale, or lightilh,
kind; and, though this may appear ridiculous and infignificant. to the un-
derfianding of fame readers, yet the fact fi:ands unlhaken in practice. Now,
as every one of the twelve houfes of heaven have their fignificators, (()
have they alfo their co-fignificators, which have frequent ope'ration, and
therefore ought to be confidered. A co-fignificator is a planet either
fallen into-conjunction or joined in afpeCl: with the principal fignificator;
in which cafes the planet either affifis or oppofes in the matter under con...
"1ideration; if it be joined with a benevelent planet) it imports good; -
but, if it h~ppens to the contrary, it either deno~es deftrud:ion to the fu·b-
jett of enquiry, or great difturbance in the effeCling it. The co-fig-
nificators of this houfe are Saturn and Aries; and, if Saturn is moderately
well dignified in this houfe, and in any benevolent afpei:l with ] upiter,
Venus, or the Sun or Moon, it promifes a good faber conll:itution cff body,
and generally gives long life. If Mercury is lord of this houfe, and well
_dignified, the perfon lhal.l be a powerful and good fpeaker.
No.8• . Oo From
Digitized by Google-
..
AN ILLUSTRATION
· From the {econd houfe we form judgment upon aU queftions relating
to wealth or poverty, profperity or adverfity. and Jofs or gain in any un-
dertaking that may be propounded by the quetent; and alfo concerning
moveable goods, money lent, or employed in (peculation. In fuits of
.Jaw or equity, it {hews a man's friends or affiftants; in private duels, it
defcribes the querent's fecond; in eclipfes, it thews the growing profpe-
rity or adverfity of a ftate or·people; and, at the Sun's entrance into Aries,
it expreffes the ftrength of the empire where the figure is ereCl:ed, in iis
jnternal refources, in its allies, and in all other requifites of war, or !elf-
defence. It gives a green colour, of which a fimib.r ufe is to be ma<;te
as is defcribed in the firft houfe; and the fame obfervation will hold
.good in all other houfes. and in queftions that relate to colours. The
co-figoificators to the fecond houfe are Jupiter and Taurus; for, if Jupiter
be placed in this houfe, or is lord thereof in full dignity, it implies the
acquiution o.f an eftate or fortune; but the Sun and Mars never promife
good in this houfe; either of them indicate difperfion of fubftance, at-
cording to the capacity and quality of him who propofes the queftion.
The third houfe having fignification of brethren, fifters, kindred, and
Jleighbours; and of all inland journeys, and of removing one's manu-
faaure or bufinefs from one pbce to anoiher; fo aU queftions that are
founded upon any fubjeas relative thereto are anfwered from the pia..
nets fituated in· this houfe. Its co-fignificators are Mars and Gemini •
which is one rea-fon why Mars, unlefs joined with Saturn, is not found
fo generally unbenevolent in this houfe as in the others. If the Moon-
be po'fited here, his always an argument to the querift of much reftleff-
mefs. travelling, and change of fituation. This is a'fuccedent boufe,. and
gives a yellow,. red, or forrel, colour.
From the fourth houfe we rdbtve aU queftions in any way relating to.
or concerning the father of the querift. Alfo all enquiries reiating to
lands, houfes,. or eftates; or to rowna, citie-s, caftles, or intrenchments,.
befieged; of treafures hiddell in the groond, and aU other queftions re-
lating to the earth; are anfwered out of this houfe, which is called the
imum cteli. or the angle of the earth. Its co-fignificators are the Son and
Cancer; and therefore, if the Sun be pofited in this houfe, it denotes the
father of the querift to be of a generous and noble difpofttion. It go-
'Verns the red colour.
By the fifth houfe we form all our predictions relative to children, and
to women in the fiate of pregnancy; alfo, all queftions concerning the
prefent health of abfent fons or daughters, or the future health of thofe
at howe• enq_uiries relating to the real and perfonal e1feds of one's fa-
1 tber~
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. · .
ther~ o_r concerning t~e fuccefs of ~e~en~; ambaffadors,. -or plenipo-
tenuanes; or refpecbng the ammumtton or mternal ftrengtb of a place
be1ieged; are all anfwered from this houfe. Its co-fignificators are Ve-
nus and Leo, and therefore unfortunate when occupied either by Saturn
or Mars, both ·of which indicate bafe and untoward chitdren to the en-·
quirer. It indicates a mixed black and white or fangoine colour.
The fixth houfc refolves all queftions that in any refpeel: appertain to
fervants or cattle. Alfo enquiries concerning the ftate of a fick per-
fon, whether curable or not; the nature of the difeafe, and whether of
Otort or long duration; particulars relariog to uncles and aunts, and all
kindred on the father''S fide; alTo concerning one's tenants, ftewards,
or the like; are refolved ·by the difpofition of the ftars and planets fituated
in this houfe. Its co-figni'ficatars arc Mercury arJd Virgo J and, when
Mars and Jupiter are found in _conjunCtion here, it is a llrong argument
of a good fhyfician, whenever it comes up upon a quefiion propounded •.
in behalf o a patient who is vifited by a gentleman of the facu.Jty. This
houfe, having no afpeet with the afcendant, is always deemed unfortu-
nate. It gives a black or dark colour.
By the feventh hoofe, we are enabled to refolve a11 queaions on love-
affairs and marriage, and to defcrit>e the perfon of either the man or
woman that the querift will _
be joined with in marriage. It likewife
an.fwers all enquiries of the defendaut in law-fuits and litigations; or
concerning our public enemies in time of war. In tbefts, it enables u&
to defcribe the perfon of the robber, by his thape, ftature, compterion,
and condition of life. In an annual ingre.fs, it ufually indicates. whether
peace or war .may be cxpecSied; and, prior to aa engagement, betokens
'Which fide Dlall prove viCtorious; it difcovers fogitivcs, out-tawed men,
and offenders dcaped from ju-tbice. The co-fignificators to this hoafe
are tbe Moon and Libra;. and, when Saturn or Mars are found herein, it
is deemed an unfavourable omen, produttive of great forrow and wretch-
ednefs to the querift in any matrimonial engagement. It gives a dark
blue, black, or brown, colour.
From the eighth houfe we folve all quetlions concerning deat~, its-
time, quality, and nature~ with all matters relating to legacies, wills,.
and lafi: tefl:amentSJ or who £hall inherit the fortune and eftates Of the
deceafed. Enquiries on the dowry or portion of maids or widows; in,
duels, concerning the adverfary•s fecond; in }aw-fuits, relative to :the
defendant's fuccefs and friends; and quefiions on public 011 .private ene-
~ies.. or concernina the fubfi:ance and fecurity of thO'fe we conneet our-
fclJcs witbt in bufinefs ~ arc all an!wered by the fituation ·of the planets in.
· th.is.
Digitized by Coogle
J66 AN ILLUSTRATION
Digitized by Coogle -~
OF AS T R 0 L 0 G Y.
perfec1,1tion, malice, (ecret enemies, fuicide, treafon, con{piracy, aiTaf.
fination, and every thing appertaining te the misfortunes and affliCtions
of ~ankin~. ~ts co-fignifi~ators ar~ Vel')US and Pifees; and Saturn great-
. 1y JOyeth m thts houfe, bemg the parent of malevolence and malignity.
The colour i.t gives is green.'
From the foregoing- circun.
1fbntial furvey of the twelve 'houfes ofhea-
ven, I trull the reader will be enabfed to form fuch an idea of the nature
of predicting by the horofcope, as will enable him not only to proceed to
place the tlars and planets therein with corrednefs and precifion, but alf->
to form :111 accurate ~nd dill:inet judgment of their power and influence,
undt:r whatever afpcCts or pofitions he may occafionally find them; for
until he can accompli{h this, it will be in vain for him to attempt ~ny
examples in the doctrine of hor.:ry quell:ions or nativities, which will be
the next object of cur plan, after explaining the tables for finding the
places of the planets every hour and minute of the day, and di:-ecting the
reader how to place them in the horofcope. But I cannot di(mifs this
fubjeet, without giving my readers the definition of the twelve houf~s of
heaven, from the works of the learned and much-elleemed philofopha and
aftrologian, Morinus; and in doing this, I fhall adhere as much to the
fpii-it and letter of. the author, as the nature of a tranfiation will admit.
" It is a faCt, fays this excellent author, which preponderates in the ba-
lance of reafon, and highly claims our fober confideration, that the life of
man is refolvable into four difiintt periods or ages; namely, infancy,
youth, maturity, and old age; though it may be faid with firitt truth,
that' fcarcely half the human race attain to the conclufion ofonly tqeir third
period. In the conftruclion of man therefore, we difcover four afft:tl:ions,
into which all other things appear to be reducible, as it were ta their firft
beginning; namely, life, aCtion, marriage, and paffion. Theie agree with
the rife, perfeCtion, declination, and termination, of all things, and com-
prife the whole effects and operations of nature. For man is truly f.aid,
to rjfe into the world the moment he receives refpiration and life; to be
in perfeRion when he attains to manhood and maturity~ and to the pro-
pagation of his fpecies; to decline, when he begins to Jofe the innate
radical principle of heat and moifture; and to fullain the lall paffion of
life, when he ceafes to breathe, and filently finks into the grave. The
·life, action, marriage, and paffions, of men, are therefore governed by the
fame celeftial principle, which regulates the birth, perfection, declina-
tion, and diffolution, of all other things. Wherefore life, in the fyll:em.
of nature, is regulated by the eall angle of the heavens, called the ~fccn­
dant ; action, by the fouth angle, or. midheaven; marriage, by the weft
angle; and pa11ion, by the north angle of the ·heavenly frame. And henc~
No.·8. P p arif,;
~igitized by Coogle
I
J68 A N ILL U S T R A T.I 0 N
arife f~ur triplicities of the fame genus or generital nature, and twelve
houfes, as heretofore defcribed. The fidl. triplicity is of the eafi.ern an-
gle, or afcendant, attri~uted to infancy, and called the triplicity of life,
and includes the firft, ninth, and fifth, houfes, which behold each other.
in a partite trine in the equator, where this rational divifion of the twelve
houfes is made.
" Man either does, or ought to, live in a three-fold refpeel, in himfelf,
in God# and in his pofterity; for the great ends for which he was created,
are to wodhip and glorify his Maker, and to propagate his fpecies. The life
of man in himfelf is therefore the firft and prime objeCt in the order of
nature; for, without this, all other parts of the creation would be vain,
being madefor man's ufe and benpt. For this caufe, the life of man ap-
pertains to the firft and principal houfe in the divifion of the heavens.
But man's life in God, confifiing ~n his image of the Divinity, in the ra-
tionality of his foul, and in the purity of his morals, claims, for this rea-
fan, the ninth houfe, according to the motion of the equator, which is
the hou(e of piety and religion. And as man's life is continued in his
pofierity, according to one and the fame unchangeable law prefiding over
all nature, fo the houfe of infancy and children, which is the fifth houfe,
is appropriated for this purpofe. And thefe three concerns being con-
feffedly the grand objeH of man's life, the three houfes of heaven, under
which they are refpettively nourithed and foftered, form a trine with each
other, in a chain of mutual harmony and concord.
" The fecond triplicity confifis of the angle of the midheaven with
the fixth and fecond houfes. This triplicity wholly appertains to the
fecond fiage of man's life, namely, that of vigour and ad:ion; and there-
fore comprehends all worldly attainments, with the advantages flowing
from them; for every thing that worketh phyfically worketh for fome
phyfical good; and, as the motion of the equator is from the eaft angle to
the midheaven, fo is the progrefs made in all our earthly acquifitions.
The higheft degree of man's elevation in thi~ world, is to that of majefty,
power, honour, dignity, preferment, or magifiracy, or to any of thofe fi-
tuations by which he acquires fuperiority and affiuence. Thefe confill:-
.ing of immaterial matter, and forming the firft order of earthly dignity.
claim the angular houfe of this triplicity, or the midheaven. The fc:-
cond degree of worldly honour, is conceived to arife from fubjet.l:s, {er-
vants, tenants, vaffals, and domefiics; and thefe, being formed of mat-
ter material and animated, are placed under the fixth houfe. The ·third
advancement to earthly grandeur, is by matter material and animate, fuch
as gold, jewels, and other valuable effects, accumulated by induftry and
Jweat qfthe brow; which being under t~e fecond houfe, thefe three houfes
2 are
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
are alfo joined by fympathy in a partite trine, applying to each other in
concord and unanimity.
" The third ~riplicity comprehends worldly connections, whether by
marriage, cocfanguinity, or friendlhip, and thefe holding on in the or-
der of J)ature, even .as the progrefs is made from the midheaven to the
wefiern angle, apply to the progreffive tendency of youth to manhood and ·
maturity. In this ftage of life, man is joined in a three-fo'ld tie or obli-
gation; in body, in blood, and in friendfilip. Firll:, he is joined in body,
by ·the molr facred of all earthly ties, matrimony; (andioned under the
feal of God's primary command, "increaje and multipiy." Secondly, he
is joined in confanguinity, not only by the propagation of his like, but
. by all orders of his kindred in blood. Thirdly, he is joined in friend-
fhip under that facred bond of benevolence and love, which the Almighty
commands every man to exercife towards his neighbour. This is the
very cement of fociety, and medicine of life, performing thofe good offi..
ces in c'ivil life which the tree of life promifed in our more perfect fiate;
and thefe are the fentiments of friendihip which alone can give a true
reliili to every enjoyment of this world. The moft important of thefe
oblioations, being marriage, is for that reafon placed under fanction of the
ang~lar or fuperior houfe; the fecond tie, being that of blood, claims the
government of the third houfe; and the eleventh houfe, which perfects
this triplicity, is facred to friendiliip. Thefe three houfes, from an
union of nature, behold each other in a partile trine, according to the mo-
tion of the cqu~tor.
" The fo.urth and ]aft triplicity -is. that of paffion, which comprehends
the three clatfes of human afflictions. The firft or angular houfe of this
triplicity, in allufion to its pofition in the lower horizon, is termed the
dark angle, the depth of night, and bottom of heaven; the den and cave
of the ftars and planets. To this houft: is committed the firft order of our
woes, agreeable to the courfe of nature. Thefe are, infupportable mif-
fortunes, and vifible decline of life; the firfi: confequences of original
fin, by which man is devoted to corruption and decay, and to all the infir-
mities of nature. The fecond order of human affiidions, is tribulation,
forrow, and difeafe; arifing either from tbe treachery and perfecution of
enemies, from the chains of fervitude and bondage, or from poverty and
want. Thefe, with a long train of confequent miferies, are appropriated to
. _. the twelfth houfe. The laO: !hock that can be fufiained by human na-
ture!, is death, the final end of all men. This is under government of
the eighth houfe,. termed, on this account, the houfe of death. And thefe
boufes Hkewife, from the conformity of their nature and qualities, con-
ftitutc a partile trine in the equator. ·
"Thus
oigitiz~d by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
"Thus the termination of this temporal life is the beginning of life
eternal. For nature knows no annihilation. All the works of Omnipo..
tence are refolvable or changeable from one ftate to another; but God,
having created nothing in,vain, fuffers l}othing to be annulled ~ \Vherc-
fore according to the fecond motion of the planets, which is from weft to .
eaft, an entrance is made out of the eighth into the ninth hcuf~ which
is the houfe of life in God, wherein man is taught by the revelation of
the SUPREME WILL, that he lhall pafs, by the fecond motion of the
· foul, which is attributed to the mind or reafon, as the firl1: or wrapt foul
or fenfitivc appetite is to the body, from this life of anxiety and peril,
to an eternal life of peace and rell:. And therefore, whatever is firll: irt
dignity in the order of nature, polfei1es the firll: and1nore'noble houf~s in
thefe triplicities, in regular fubordination, according to the motion of
the ecliptic and planets. ·
· "And now, WHAT MAN IS HE, who, confiding in the il:rength of his
own wifdom, will dare to meafure the works of his CREATOR by the
il:andard of his own comprehenfion? or will venture to affirm, that the{e
operations and divifions of the .twelve celefiial houfes, conjoined with
fuch wonderful harmony, contrivance, and concord, are the effects of
. chance oraccident? or that will Cay, fuch admirable confents, fo excelJentJy
formed, and mutually dependent on each other, are cafually found in
things fo complicated and abftrufe? If he obil:inately perfifts that thefc
are altogether fittious, let him point out the thing wanting to complete
the evidence in fupport of the natural foundation and excellency of them ?
But he can do neither; and therefore, as this divifion of the heavens is
founded in reafon, and obvioufly contrived by fupernatural wifdom and
, prefciencc, it comprehends genethliacally all things that in the courfe of
· nature can poffibly be enqu.ired of or concerning the works of man.
For as much as the knowledge of contrarieties is univerfally the fame, fo
an affirmative, or a negative, may be fought out, and found to be co~prifed
in the twelve houfes of the Zodiac, anfwering to the divifion."
DIRECTIONS
oigitiz ,d by Coogle
0 F A 5 T It 0 L 0 G Y..
DIRECTION'S for erel\:ing the FIGURE 9f HEAVEN, and placing
. ' '
the PLANETS in the HOROSCOPE.
W ITHOUT being expert at fin~ing the true places of the _
planets
and ftars, at any hour or minute required, either by day or night
and without knowing how to·difpofe them in th.c horofcope, fo as to re-
prefent their exad: fituations in the heavens; nothing can poffibly be
known or predicted by Aftrology. This acquifition, therefore, is the
: next fiep to: be attained; and, though it may at firfi appear a tafk of lome
di~cY1ty and labour, yet by the help of a common Ephemeris; which is
publithed annually, and the following tables, which are .
calculated and
fubjoined for this p..u-po.fe.,. &he~' may in a. f~w bouts become peJfed
ma.fier of this very elfential part cf the {cience.
The EphemeriS', of wh~ Mr. Whit~s is the heft, is calculated to
1hew the exad places of the Sun,. Moon, and planets,everyday at twelve
o'c:lock; confequcntJy, by referri1lg t& it, a figure may be acctUately fct .
to that exact time. But it may f.eldom or (lever happen, that a figure is
wanted precifely at that hour~ a~d therefore it is neccifary the young prac-
titioner lhould know how to reCtify the daily motions of tbe planett, by
the number of degrees they move· every twenty-four hours, Co ae to erctt
the figure, and introduce the true places of tqe ftgns and planets, when-
ever required. This; by referring to' the Ephemeris for the ftatioos of
the.planets at noon, may be· done extreme}y eafy, by the common pro..
c:efs of figures; but. that every reader niay be enabled to do it without
trouble, I have fubjoined an eaf1 tablt!~ whereby the pl_all&tary motions
arc reduced to hours and minutes, and may be found for either day or
~ight.
It is likewife of importance to kno'll tho planetary boun, that is, the
hour in which every planet has- its particular rule; for hereby we are
enabled to determine various points, and to draw many ufeful conclu-
fions, either in our judgment on nativities or horary queftions. In ga..
tbc:ring herbs for medicinal purpofes, the planetary hour is ·Certainly
of confequence, however modern refinement :might have exploded·
. tho idea. In natare, the mofi: fimple remedies are frequently fouad to
pr~duce the moft falutary dfefl:s J and in e~rller timea, whe1,1 the art of
phyfic- was lcfs obfcured, and pra8:ifed more from QlOtivGS of benevo-
lenJ:e, the world was kfs afftieted · with d,ifcafe, and the period of bu- ·
man life lefs .contracted. The fupreme Being, in. his abund~nt mercies
to mankind; has furnifued ample remedies in the laboratory of nature,
were nature but adhered to. for the-removal of every curable diforder in-
No. 9• Q ct . ~idcat
. I
-
Digitized b; Coogle
,_:)
AN ILLUSTRATION
cident to tbe 'buman frame; for, notwithftanding all the parade of com-
,pound medicines the art of phyfic does not confift fo much in prepating
the remedy as in knowing how to apply it. Hence it happens that old
women, without education or experience, by the help of a fimple herb
gathered in the planetary hour, in which hourit imbibes its greateft degree
of ftrength ·and fpecific virtue, will fometimes perform very extraordi-
nary cures, in cafes where geptlemen of the faculty are abfolutely at a
Jofs how to treat them•. The planetary hours always begin at fun rif-
ing, and cjlch planetgoverns in rotation, according to th~ following table.
A TABLE of PLANETARY HOURS for every DAY in the Week,
beginning at SuN Rt.siNG.
Sunday Monday Tuefday Wcdnef. Thurfd~y Friday Satur.
Pia. H. Pia. H. Pia. H. Pia. H. Pia. H. Pla. H . Pla•.H.
. .
-
a I ) 1 I I I 1 11- 1 t 1 .fl 1
t 2 ll 2 a 2 , 2 I 2 I 2 11- 2
I 3 11- 3 t 3 ll 3 a 3 )
3 I 3
)
4
,, 4. I 4 1l 4 t 4
"' 4 a 4
'fl 5 G 5 )
5 I 5 I s 1f. 5 t 5
1f. 6
' 6 lJ 6 a 6 , 6 I 6 f 6
I '
k I 7 1f. 7 t
~
'fl
~
a 7
)
7
a ) 8 I 8 I 1f. t 8
" 8
,, 9 lJ 9 a 9 )
9 I 9 I 9 1J 9
• 10 1f. 10 t 10
"
10 a 10 , 10 I 10
) II I 11 I 11 ,. II t 11 lJ li ·a 1I
:& 12 0 12 ) 12 I 12 I 12 11- 12
'
12
11. 13 t J3
" 13 a 13 )) 13 I 13 ~ 13
I · 14 I 14 11. 14 t 14 'fj I4 0 14 ]) 14
a 15 ) 15 I . IJ ·If 1J 11. 1J t 15 l/. IS
'
16
" 16 a J6 ) t6 I r6 ~ t6 Jl. 16
I 17 11. 17
' 17' ~ J7 a 17 )
17 I .
;~
) 18 I tB I tB 1/. 18
'
18 'fl ' 18 0
" 19 a 19 ) 19 I 19
• 19 1J. 19 ~ 19
1f. 20
'
20 'fl 20 . a 20 ) 20 I 20 ~ 20 .
I 21 I 21 1/. 21 t .21
"
21· G 21 )) 21
.a 22 ) 22 I 22 I 22 1f. 22 t 22 b 22
t 23
'" 23 a 23 ) 23 I ' .23 I 23 11- 23
'
24 ~ 24 t 24 'fl 24 0 24 )) 24- I 24
Te~
• Altho~gh the autho~ ~not too fev~r~Jy cenfure die ambiguou~ gatS in wliiC:h the m~
dem praaice of _phyfic' 1s atttred, ytt he wtfhes not to•hurt· the foelmgs of tho&«: good me~
who(c )ivcs have been del'Oted to the ftudy ef udic:inc, and who moved,_like the &Pod Sama-
. . lttan;.
173
'to u·ndcrftand the preceding table, the reader mull recol1ed.that we
have already affigned to each planet his refpell:ive rule over every day in
the week; for inftance, .the Sun governs Sunday, the Moon. Monday,
Mars Tuefday, Mercury Wednefday, Jupiter Thurfday, Venus Friday,
and Saturn Saturday. Each planet begins his rule the moment the Sun
appears above the horizon; and continues for one planetary hour, at the
expiration of which the next planet in order commences his rule, and con..
tinties.the fame portion of time, and then the third planet in order governs,
.and fo on through the whole week. So that, ifI want to know what planet
rules in any particular hour of the day or night, I take the plan-et which
begint rule that day, and reckon in order till I find it. For example, on
Sunday the Sun rules the firft hour, Venus the fecond, Mercury the thirdr
the Moon the fourth, .Saturn the fifth, Jupiter the fixth, Mars the feventh,
the Sun the eighth, Venus the ninth, and fo on through the whole day
and fucceeding night, till the Sun riCes again, by which mode of reckon.
ing it will be uniformly found, that each planet will begin·his govern-
ment at Sun rifing, according to the order above defcribed, to the end~
of the world. This alfo.evidently appears by the table; for if we begin
with the firil column, and reckon down the whole twenty-foar ho~srs,.
we find the Moon begins her governm~t at the top of th~ fecond column'
on Monday morning, when the Sun rifes. If we reckon down the fecond
column, in the fame order, we find Mars begins his rule at the top·
, of the third column, on Tuefday morning. So the planets will be found
to obferve the fame regular order throughout aU the other columns,.
which take in the hours of every day and night throughout the week;
and for the enfuing week the·table begins ag.ain in the fame order, and
will {o continue without alteration or error, to the end of time.. By re-·
!erring to the fig.ures, whi~h reprefent .the refpective hour of every day ··
ritan, with bowels of~ompaffion,. 'adminifter balm to.tbe bleeding urues of their allieled bre•
thren. · The many invaluable difcoveries lateTy added to the Pharmacopceia, both from the
vegetable and mineral worlds, are ftrong arguments of the neceffity ofregular praCtice, and of
· profeftional education, in forming the phyfician. But were the bulk ot thofe gendemen to
confult a little more the planetary inBuences, both on vegetable and mineral fubftances, anti
aPP,Oftion them in their prefcriptions according to the nature and contlitution of the patient,
untfonnly confultin~ the effeCts of Saturn and the Moon in each crifis and critical day, I am
perfuaded that more 1mmediate relief, in moft caft:s where nature is not too far exhaull:ed, might
'be afforded to the lick and languifbing patient. Surgery too, which like a guardian angd fteps .
forward -to alleviate the per.ilous accidents of the unfortunate, would gain much improvement
-..ythe like confiderations. It is not therefore the regular-bred praCtitioners of either Phyfic or
Surgery that the author means .to, arraign; b~t that baneful defcription of empirics and'
11.uac~ wbo now pervade the kmgdom ; and, hke a fwarnvof locutts from the eatt,. prey.
~on the vitals of mankind. Tl\efe monfters in the thape of men, with hearts callous to every
fentime~t of comp~on, hC~:\CC only. fees in .view. ~o~erned by this fordid. pri~ciple, they
fport w1th hfe,. unmoved armdll the bttter anguiJh and p1ercmg groans of the defpondmg patient . .
till tao far gone for human aid to reftore, they abandon him to defpair and death. .For the fak;
of bumanit~ and the.bonour ofa.Clu:iftian country, lee the legifl4tive pow~r check thi.s growing
· CAOraUt! l
and
' '
. .\ ..
Digitized by Coogle
A N I ,L .L .\7 .S T • A T I. 0 ·N
. .
·'
and night throughout.the week,- the reader. may alwayt fee what ptmet
gov~rns in that hour, as its cbaraele~:.is pl~ced in the fame line with .the
figure. For 1
e.xample, fu.ppof.e I want . to koow . what pl&aet t\lles the
fifth hour on Sunday morningJ I look down the firft colqmn of the
·table, over which is placed $unday planetacy hour, and at the 5th hour,
I find Saturn governs. Again, fuppofe it be required to know what pl.,_
net governs the ninth hOur on Friday afternoon? Look down the column.
over which Friday planetary hour is printed, and in the 9th hour it will
be feeri that Mercury governs. Or if it be aiked, what planet rules the
nineteenth hC?ur on W ednefd.ay night.? Look down the column over which
\Vednefday planeta_
ry hour is prefixed, and at I 9, which :figni6ca the
19th hour, or the feventh hour aftet the Sun is fet, it will be found that
Mars governs ; and fo for any other time required.
But 'a planetary hour not agro.eing with the common diviuon of ·time,
and being peculiar t.o.afironoll\y and arftrolosy only; we ihall cxplaia it
more.fully. Tbc.pla~tary hours •re· r"koned from the time a£ the
Sun's rifing t& it& (ettiog, wbi~h fpacc gf sime is divided into swelt«&
equal parts, and tbo(e ar.c ~rmcd tbe twelve planetary hours of that day•
The·ri the time from the Sun's fetting to- its rifing the next morning is ·
in the fame manner dividod into twelve equal parts, and thefe can4itute
the twelve planetary hours for that night. Hence it is oh•ious, that.
w~en the days are lliort, a pla'!etary hoqr does not confift of above forty
miDutes, more or Jefs, a~cordmg to the twelfth part of the whole time
frQm the Sun's ri.fing to its letting J and, the nights being then lang, a
planetary hour by night may c:onfifi: ofan hour and tenor twenty mioutcs,
or m<?re; and fo 'Vi&e 'Vet:fa, when the days are long, and the nights ~ort;
{o that the duration of planetary hours, both by day and night, arc con-
tinually varying, and never agree wi~ the common mea{ure of time,
except OR thofe two days in every year when the Sun ·enters .Aries and
Liltra,--and then equal niaht and day is difpenfed to all parts of the world.
Therefore, to enable the reader ·to find the length of the planetary hours
without the trouble of calculating, I fubjoiJ! the following table, by
•hicb the] ma1 be found, both night and day, for ever.
TABLE ·
Digitized by Googl~ ·~--
:0 'F A S.T &- 0- I: 0~ G Y•
.'TA~LE of the PLANETARY 'HOUR.S for everyDAY and
NIGHT in the Week.
Length of the Length of the Plane- Length of the Plane-~
Day. tary Hours by Day. tary Hours by Night.
-- --- -·-
H. M. H. M. s. H. M. s.
-- - ...........,....._,.__.........,_
-
6 0 0 ao 0 - 1 30 0
6 ' ao 0 32 ao 1 27 30
7 0 0 35 0 1 25 0
7 30 0 37 30 I 22 30
g· 0 0 40 0 I 20 0
8 JO 0 42 30 I 17 30
9 0 0
. 45 0 I 15 0 ·
9 ao 0 47 30 1 1'2 30·
10 0 · 0 so 0 1 10 0 ·
JQ-
. 30 0 s~ ao I 7 3-0
II 0 0 55 0 1 5 0
ll ao 0 57 30 I 2 ao
12 0 I 0 0 l 0 0
12 . 30 1 2 30 0 > 57 ·. 30
13 -0 I .5 0 0 -- s5· 0
13
.. 30 l - ..•
7 ;. JO. o· . 52 3~
14
~
0 I lO 0 0 so 0
1:4 . JO J, . 12 30 0 47 aa
·15 0 I- I:S 0 0 . 45 0
15 go 1 17 . 30. 0 . 42 30
-
16 0 I ' 20 0 ()
. 40 - 0
:t6 .ao . I 22 30 0 37 ao
117 I
0 I 25 0 0 . 35 0
•
The firfi: £olumn of the ab~ve table is intcrid.ed to .thew the time be-
tween the rifing a.nd fetting. of the Sun, .from ·fix ·hours to feventeeo,
which takes in more than the Jongeft or fuorteft. days. Then fuppofe the
time from ~heSun"s rifing to its fetting be only fix hours; t~. planetary
hours that day would ·be each thirty minutes long, as fpcciticd in the fe-
cond colums, and the planetary hours the night folJow.ing would ~e
each one hour and thirty · minutes long, ·as expre1fed in the third co-
'lumn. Aga~n, fu.ppofe the time between the Sun·s rifing and fetting be
thirteen hours and thirty minutes,. wbat would be the length of the pla-
netary hours that day and night? Look in the iri column of the table ·
No. 9• R r foe .
Digitized byGoogle
~ ~A N :l L L U S)'rlRl A·T I 0 N
·fct thil1ten hours and thitty minutrJB; and.io the fame line in the *eo'ftd
. column ftand one hour fc:¥en ·minutes. 'tnd thirty feconds, which is the
.exact length of &ach ~y ~r dlat•t• aad ia the .!ame line in the
. third colufllfl ftand fifty-twQ mimrtes thirty feconds, which is the length.
of the·planetary hours·tbat-'.nigbt. ·.·By the fame rule the length of the
planetary ironrs may"be· eafily foumi in 'this table, eYery day and night
:through the year. Th~engtb of time between the rifing and fctting of
the Sun may always be found' in the Ephemeris. This table is calcu-
lated within thtrty-minutes of the Sun's real time every day, which is
!uffi~ieA\)y near 'fer all die pprpafes required. · · ·
. ~J • r I c. ~
TAS.LE- to re~u~e the 7v.r~~I'~N o(the PLlNETS ~o any H~ur of the
l · bay or Night. · ·
·-
\~9. ( i l ~9. 3:gI '
.g c: One Hour'e ac: One Hour's . ~c: Qne HoQ1''s
.... i--· 3 -·""
0 0
.Mvtion. 0
M~ion• 0 :s ) Motion.
:s ill)
':S ~ :s II) '
- -
' .
' ~
- - ..
O.or D. M. & D..or D. :M. .s. D.or D. M. s.
M. M. s. T.. ;M-r M. · S. T. M. M. s. ;'{'.
._,.__ !
-
. I 0 ' ··2 30 S2 0 ss 0 43 - 1_ 47 ao ·
I
0 !7 ao~ I so ; .0
2 o· 5 0 ~ 44
~: 3 0' ·.7 .ao . 24~ 1 ·o op 45 I· 52 .30
4 0 JO 0 .2--5 I· .z 301 46 1-:- 55 0
5 0 ~~ 30 s6 1 5 o. 47 .I 57 30
6 0 . J.5 g 2-7 I '1· 30· 48 ~ 0 : 0
' 7 0 17 30 1.8 1 I~ ·o: 49 2 2 .30
8 0 ao Q i'-9 I tJ2 30· so 2 5 0
·.
:'. 9 0 '22 30 ! ~o· l 15 0 51 ~ 7 ·30
10 0 25 e : ~1 I 17 30 52 2 JO 0
11 0 27 30 32 1 20 0 53 2 12 3tl
12 0 30 .C 33 I 22 30 54 2 .IS (l
" I7 go .
13 0 32 30 34 I 25 0 55 2
14 0 35 0 35 1 27 ao s6 2 20 0 ·
15 0 37 30 36 l 30 0 57 2 22 80'
16 0 40 0 31 I 32 30 sa 2 25 -(1
17 0 42 30 as I 3S 0 59 2 27 so
IB p 45 0 39 1 37 30 6o 2 JO 0
19 0 47 30 40 I 40 0 6r 2 32 30
20 p so' 3~l
41 1 42 ao 62 2 35 0
21 ()., 52 42 1 45 0 63 2 37 30
r
To
0 F. A 9 T..R. 0 L 0 Q y, '. :177
To find the true place of each planet, at any hour when we have occa•
fion to erea a figure, it only requires t9 turn to the Ephemeris for the pla- ·
nets' places at noen • thofc being foand, 'ote .bow. Qlany, degrees or mi-
nutes they move in the z~diac by twelve o'clock the next day, or from
noon the prec(ding dayJ and then, by the help ofthe f.regoin! table, it
will be feen how many d~gre•&., minute,, or feconds, they move in an
hour.. For example, fuppofe a planet moves one degree in twenty-four
hourt, how fat does it move in one hour 1 At the top of the firft column
is tM figure 1, and iJt the fame line of the fecond ·nlumn is t minutes
and )0 feconds; which lhews, that, if a planet be twenty-fout hours in
moving one degree, it fben moves at die rate of two minutes and go
feconds in an hour. Or fuppofc a planet only moves two minutes in
twenty-four hours; look into the tirff c6lutnn of the·table fC?t the figure 2,
oppofite, in the fecond column,. iland 5 feconds,·. which 1liews that, if a
planet movea·two minutes.in twenty-four hours, it then only moves five
feconds in an hour. Again, if a planet~s diurnal motion be thirteen mi-
nutes, what is its houtly motion i Look into tbe firft eolu.mn for I3,
an.d oppo.fite is 32, 30 J which i~icatet, th~t, ifa planet moves thir~een
m10utes 1n twenty-four hours, 1t moves thtrty-two feconds and th1rty
thirds in an hour. The (ame rules hold good for the lh6tions of all the
planets J it muft however be carefully obferved, that, if the·diUrnal mo-
tion of any planet be in degrees, then you muft enter the·firft column of
the table' under the dcnomi~ation of degrees, and the fecond column
with minutes and feconds; but, if the· diurnal motion of the planet be
only in minutes, then you muft•begin to reckon in: the firft-colurrin only
with minutes and in the fecond column' with feconds and thirds• .
This is indicated by the initial letters placed over each column, which
1ignify:degrees or minutes in the firft column, and,·in the· f~ond, degrees
and minutes, minutes and fecood&, (econds and thirds. Then fuppofe a
planet moves one. degreeaad thirtaen miDutd in twenty-four hours, how
fu does. it. move 111 an. hour ? R~fer- to the: table, aod fay,. • ··
One degree in ~4- hours is
Thirteen min. in 24 hours
2 mim so Cec. o thirds per hour~
is 0 miri. az fee. 30 thirds...
· · Anfwet 3 2 30
And thus any quantity of a planet'-s diurnal motion may' be reduced to
time in the fame manner.
But as no figure caa be eretted withoat the help of an·Eipherileris, and
tables to lliew the Sun's place in each of the twelve fig~s,: ,Unlefs by en-
tering into· long and tedious calculations, I dtall ther~fore infert in this
place die .two pages of White's Ephemeris for June 17-'84~ and-the tables
above-mentioned, with an ~xpJanation of the whole• .
(CO-
. .
Digitized by Coogle
fl
A.N ILLUSTRA.TION
(C 0 p Y.)
WHIT E •a E P HE M.£ R I S, :roa ]vlfa 1784.
JuNE bath XXX Davs.
Tbe LuNATIONs.
Full moon the 3d day, at 34 minutes paft 4 afternoon.
Laft quarter the roth day, at 28 minutes paft lt morning.
New moon the 17th day, at 6 min~;~tes pafl: 6 evening:
Firft quarter the 25th day, at 33 mmutes paft ro at.mght.
M. ]Sundays and other 0 0 0 ·~ ) '.s C[ rifes C Clocc
D. remarkable days rifcs fets dcclin. dcclm.l& fets fouth after<:>
.-Wiift-Tuefday NicOin 8'822n. II~ rmf iO'ili7 2 31
2 Ember Week 3 51 8 9 u I9 2.f. 1s z .I4 11 •s z 22
3 3 so 8 ro u z~ 'l7 2 ( rlfcs morn 2 u
4 K. Geo.IIJ. born 3. 49 8 JI 22 33 28 31o a 3 o 16 2 2
5 Pr.Ern.Aug. born 3 49 ~ i2 40 :z__:z~ 1 d ~
re Trinity Sunday 3 48 8 I% :zz ·~ 2.f. I8 II 22 2 2S I 4I
7 3 47 a -1322 sr •9 ssn 46 3 25 1· 3o·
8 3 +7 8 13 22 57 •+ 24 mora + 2o 1 19.
9 Oxford T~ begins 3 46 _8 1.p3 2 8 II o 4 s ro 1 1
1o Prs. Ameha born ~~..!_!f~ 2.-..f! ~~ .!.-.J.2
IJi St. Barnabas 3 45/8 15 23 10 40 47 e 2g 6 46 o #
12 3 45 8 •s 23 14 1o ss o· +• 7 32 o 31
C I Sund.aft. Trin. 3 44 8 r6 Z3 I7a6 28 o 55 8 r9 o '19
14 3 441 8 I6 2] 2021 9 I 1'1 9 8 0 6
l_L 3 .j4 8 16 23 22 24 46 I 3r 9 S9iobef. 6
'16 3 43 8 . 17 ~27'S 2 2 ro s·• ""0'19-
17 ~St. Alban 3 +3 8 17 23 1}. 28 I ( fets II 45 o 32
18 3 43 8 17 23 27 17 32 9a34 oa38 o H
~ 3 43 8 •7 23 28 as 44 1o 4 I 29 o sa
C 2 Suft. aft. Trin. 3 .u 8 17 23 28 22 47 10 26 2 I'7 1 u
~- ----~--.r.
:ar Longcft day 3 H 8 I7 23 28 J8 H lo 44 3 2 1 zs
22 3 43 8 17 23 2 8 14 19 Io 57 .3 45 .l 37
23 3 43 8 17 23 27 9 It II 8 4 25 I SO
•4 St. John Baptift 3 43 8 17 2 3 2 5 3 43 11 19 S 5 2 3
2( 3 4i _!__!? 23 2.f .!..!lZ II 28 ~ 2 16
26 3 # 8 J6 23- 2z i 40 i'i'3i 6 2~~
C 3 Sund. aft.. Trin. 3 # 8 16 23 !2 13 14u p 7 1 2 • 41
28 · 3· 44 a 16 23 Ic 18 24 mora 7 s 2 53
%9 St.Fcter 3 +58 IPJ 1322 sr 0 9 8 5 3 s
·3o Trinity term ends · H 8 · rs zJ 9 26 9 o 39 9· sr 3 r6
~ --
-= Day Length Helioc Helioc Hclioc Helioc Hclioc Helioc r,
..:._ ~..:... ~~ ~~'b long11- long I longS ong ~ long 1 ritts
I 8 31 16 7 I91:f31 25.::21 IJ'l,42
1
11J.t 30 26¥27 19"146 IO a53
7 8 42 16 26 19 4225 53 16 21 17 14 6 ~ 2 6 .t33 io 28
13 8 -f.6 t6 3c 19 53 26 2p8 59
1
22 s8 ts. 39 23 3 ro ~
19 8 50 1-6 3~ 2o •f-26 57 2J 38z8 42 25 17 Io . I 9 38
25 odec2 16 32201527 2924 IS4J:fS64ns6z8 159 . ·~
~igitized by Coogle
•
/
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
(C 0 p Y.)
W H 1T E' s E PH EM. E R I S, Fo& juNE 1784.
jUNE •
~ 8' ~ § 'f7 's 'll.'s ~ 's !l 's ~ 's
rifes fets rifes fets declin. declin. declin. declin. declin.
om4z O"as 3 m 9 97222"i""SZo "'9'553 23 n 917 n z6 23 n 5
0 ZO 10 51 3 I 8 401
21 23 9 4522 ]21!) 1921 '21
Jtas3 1o 36 2 57 rifes z1 27 9 4021 482o 53'9 41
11 29110 Z3 '2 54 3ID342I 319 3720 59ZZ 8,18 39
II . 4 IO 7 z 57 3 6L
11 36 9 38 2p 4 23 0 18 321
.No. 9• ~ s
179
Digitized oyCoogle
1!o A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
I. ·A : T A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
. by double Horary Times. ·
Sol in Aries.
A R Time lO · I 1 12 Afcendant 2 I 3
• · from Noon. Haufe. Houfe. Haufe. !liS Haufe. Haufe.
D.M. H. M. "t'. DHM DnM D. M. D.n.M D'lllM
- --
0 0 0 0 0 8 40 22 27 -26 42 12 49 2 33
0 55 0 4 I 9 46 23 21 27 23 13 20 3 22
I 50 0 7 2 10 52 24 IS 28 2 14 4 4 12
2 45 0 11 - 3 11 ·
5s 25 9 28 42 14 48 .,. 2
:>
3 40 0 IS 4 13 3 26 2 29 21 15 3I 5 52
4 35 0 18
~-
14 8 26 54 0 .st I I6 13 -6 42
s 30 0 22 15 I2 27 46 0 40 16 57 7 31
6 25 0 26 7 I6 16 28 38 I 20 17 as 8 21
7 2I 0 29 8
~~
19 29 29 2 0 t8 20 9 li
8 16 0 '3•3 9 22 0 !!D 2C 2 39 19 3 10 2
9.e,11 ·• 0 : 31~ 10 I9 25 I 10 3 19 19 46 10 52
6,.
28
10· 0 ' 40 ' li 20 I 59 3 59 20 29 11 43
J1 2 0 - ·44 12 2I 31 2 49 4 38 21 I3 I2 33
11 57 0 48 I3 22 34 3 38 s 17 21 56 •3 24
12 53 0 51 14 23 37 4 27 s 57 22 40 14 15
I 3 48 0 55 lS 24 40 5 16 6 36 23 23 15 . 6
14 44 0 59 16 25 421 6 5 7 15 24 .7 IS 57
IS 40 I 3 17 26 44, 6 53 7 55 24 so 16 4g
t6 31 '1 6 18' 27 46; ~ 4I 8 35 25 34 17 40
1~ 35 I IO I9 28 47 30 9 14· 26 18 18 31
1 27 I I4 20 29 48 9 t8 9 53 27 ' 2 19 22
19 2J I 18 2I 0 D49 lO 6 10 34 27 46 20 14
20 20 I 21 22 I 50 IO 55 11 12 28 30 2I 5
21 16 1 25 23 2 so 11 43 11 52 29 14 21 57
22 12 I 29 24 3 51 12 31 12 32 29 ss 22 49
23 9 1 33 25 4 51 13 I9 13 I2 0 'lll42 23 41
24 6 1 . 36 26 5 so 14 8 13 52 1 27 24 33
25 2 1 40 27 6 so I4 57 14 34 2 12 25 25
25 59 -- 1 44 28. 7 49 IS 43 15 24 2 57 26 18
26 57 1 48 29 8 48 16 30 15 51 3 42 27 li
27 54 I 52 ~ ao. 9 47 . 17 I6 16 31 4 28 28 4
- A.
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
A TABLE
· Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 5r Degrees 32 Minutes,
· double Horary Times.
------------------------------------------------
A. R.
D.M.
Sol in Taurus.
Time JO 1 11 I 2 IAfcendant 2 3
From Noon floufe•.Houfe. Houfe. &l. Houfe. Houfe.
H. M. ts 1
1D n M De;;M D. M. D IIJtM D J~RM '
I - .
---1------1---------- --
I 52 0 9 47 17 16 16 3w 4 2 812 a 4
27 54
28 51
2 9 49
JO 46
31 44
32 42
33 40
34 39
35 37
36 36
37 35
!38 34
39 33
40 32
41 JI
42 31
43 3I
44 JI
45 31
46 32
47 33
:48 33
:49 34
5° 35
sr a6
52 38
53 40
-5.4 42
55 44
s6 46
57 47
1 55 1 10 45 18 3 17 1 I 5 I 31 28 57
1 59 2. I 1 43 18' 51 17 5 5 59! .29 50
2 3 3 12 41 I 9 39 18 3I 6 141 0 ~ 43
2 7 4 13 as 20 26 1 9 12 7 2 9 I 37
2 li
6
5 14 35 21 I3 I9 52 8 14 2 JI
2 1 5 I 5 32 i 2 2 0 20 32 9 0 3 25
2 I9 · 7 I6 29: 22 47 2I 13 9 47 4 19
2 23 8 17 25: 23 34 21 54 10 34 5 I 3
2 26 · 9 r8 21)24 21 22 35 - Il 21 6 7
2 30· 10 19 17 2 5 7 2 3 •I 6 12 8 7 1
2 34 II 20 13 25 53 23 57 12 55 7 55
2 38 12 21 10 26 39 24 38 13 42 8 49
2 42 I3 22 7 27 26 25 19 14 ao 9 43
2 46 14 23 4 28 I 2 26 0 I 5 17 10 37
2 SO lS 24 0 28 SCJ 26 42 16 4 ll' 32
2 54 19 24 56 29 46 27 2 4 _16 52 12 2 7
2 58 17 25 52 oa33 28 6 •7 40 13 22
3 2 18 26 48 1 20 28 47 18 28 I 4 ·17
3 6 ... 19 27 45 2 7 29 30 19 161 IS 13
3 IO 20 28 42 2 54 Of7Jtl3 20 4 16 9 :
3 14 21 29' 39 3 41 0 55 20 52 17 6
3 I 8 22 o e;; 35 4 29 1 37 21 40 r8 2
3 22 23 I 30 5 I7 2 20 22 28 I8 57
3 26 24 2 26 6 6 3 2 23 I7 i 9 52
3 3I 2 5 3 2 I I 6 55 3 46 24 61 20 48
3 _. 35 26 4 I7i 7 44 4 29- 24 55 21 44
3 39 27 5 12! 8 33 5 12 . 25 45 22 40
3 43' .. 28 6 81 9 21 5 55 26 34 2J 36
3 47 29 7 .3i 10 . 9 6 39 27 24 24 32
3 51 _ 30 7 ss ro 58 7 22 28 14 25 2 9
Digitized by Coogle·
' .
AN ILLUSTllATION
A T A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees' 32 Minutes, by
double Horary Times.
Sol in Gemini.• •
Time 10 11 12 Afcendant 2 3
A. R. From Noon Houfe Hou{e Hoofe
• Houfe Houfe
D. M. H. M. u DsaM DstM D M DUAM DoM.-
. -- --
57 48 3 51 0 7 ss 10 5s 7 22 28 14 25 29
ss 51 3 55 I 8 54- 11 46 8. 6 29 4 26 25
59 54 4 . 0 . 2 9 49 12 35 8 so 2 9 55 27 21
·- ~
o~-i-6 28 18
6o 57 4 4 3 10 45 13 23 9 34
6~ 0 4 8 4 11 41 14 12 IO 18 1 36 29 15
6J'. 3 4 f2 5 12 38 15 I . I1
~ 2 27 0"1.l2
64 6 4 t6 6 13 34 IS 51 1I 47 3 18 I 9
6s 9 4 21 7 I4 30 16 40 12 31 4 9 2 6
66 13 4 25 8 . 15 26 I~ 30 13 x6 5 0 j 3
67 17 4 29 9 16 22 I 19 14 I 5 51 4 0
68 21 4 33 10 I~ 18 19 9 14 46 -6 +2 4 57
. 69 25 4 as 1I I 14 19 sB 15 31 7 33 5 54
70 29 4 42 12 19 10 20 48 16 16 8 24 6 51
46 21 38 -
7 4-8
71 33 4 . ' 13 ·20 7 17 I 9 IJ
72 as 4" 51 If 21 8 22 28 17 46 10 6 8 45
73 43 4 55 15 22 0 23 I9 18 32 10 57 9 .f-2
74 47 4 59 16 22 56 24 9 .19 17 II 4-9 10 39
75 52 5 3 I- 23 52 25 00 20 4 12 f1 11 36
I
76 57 5 8 18 24 47 25 51 20 49 13 32 12 33
78 2 s 'I 2 19 25. 43 26 42 21 ~5 14 24 . 13 ao
79 7 5 I-6 .20 26 39 27 33 22 20 IS 15 1-f. 27
8o 12 ~ 5 21 . -- 21 . 2~ 35 28 24 23 6 16 7 15 23
81 17 5 . 25 22 2 31 29 14 23 51 16 5s J6 20
82 22 5 ~9 .23 29 27 0 tfJt 5 24 37 17 so I~ ·17
sa 27 5 34 24 to~23 o 56 25 .2J I 8 42 1 14
84 33 5. 38 - 25 1 19 I 48 26 9 19 33 19 Jl
Bs 38 5 43 26 2 15 2 40 z6 .r•s 20 25 20 8
86 43 s 47 27
I! ';
3 32 27 41 21 17 21 5
s, 48 5 St .28 4- 23 '28 27 22 9 ~.2 2
gg 54 5 56 29 s 6 5 1.~ 29 13 23 1 22 5~
90 0 6 0 30 6 3 6 + ao 0 2 ~ 53 23 s6
. A
oigitizedb~Google
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
J -- . A TABLE l
10f Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 5I Degrees 32 Minutes, by
I . - double Horary Times. ·
Sol in Cancer.
A R I Time 1 10- 11 12 'Afcendant 2 3
• ·~From Noon.,Houfe. Haufe. Haufe. ~ Haufe. Haufe.
D. M.' H. M. I e D.n.M ~lllM,~ M. o~M,DIYLM
90 ol 6 0 0 . 6 3 6 4 0 0 23 53,23 s6,
91 51 6 4 1 7 o 6 56 o 47 24 451
1
24 53
92 I 1! 6 9 2 7 58) 7 48 I . 33 25 37 25 50
93 161 6 t 3 3 s 55/s- _
41 2 19 26 2826 47
94 221 6 I 7 4 9 52 9 33 3. 5 27 20 27 44
-95 271 6 22 5 10 48.10 25 3 51 2H II 28 40
96 321 6 26 6 1I 45!11 17 4 37 29 2 29 36
97 3s1 6 31 7 12 42;12 9 5 23 29 53 ot 3a
98 43 6 35 8 13 39:13 . 2 6 9 0 "l44 1 29
99 48 6 ' 39 9 14 36!13 54 6 55 I 36 2 251
IbO 51 6 44 10 15 33 14 46 7 40 2 26 3 21
tot 58 6 48 11 16 30 15 2
37 8 26 3 17 4 17
103 3 6 52 I 2 I 7 27 I 6 8 9 12 4 8 5 l 2
104 8 6 57 I 3 I 8 24 17 20 9 57 4 59 6 8
I 05 13 7 .I I 4 19 21 l 8 12 I 0 43 5 50 7 4
1o6 1i 7 5 IS 20 18 19 4 11 28 6 41 8 o
I 07 221 7 9 16 2 I I 5 19 55 12 14 7 31 8 56
108 26. 7 14 -
17 22 1220 46 12 59 8 22 9 53
109 3I 7 18 I 8 23 9 21 37 13 45 9 I 3 JO 50
110 35 7 22 19 24 622 28 14 30 to 3 11 46
111 39 7 27 20 25 3~3 19 1S 14 10 5312 42
112 431 7 31 21 26 0 24- 9 15 59 I I 42 13 38
113 471 7 35 22 26 5725 0 16 44 12 3114 34
114 51 7 39 23 27 5425 51 17 29 13. 2015 30
115 54 7 44 24 28 5126 41 IS 1414 916 26
116 57 7 48 25 29 4S127 32 18 ·,5s 14 58 1_
7 22
uS 1 7 52 26 oll4528 23 19 42 IS 4718 18
u 9 4 7 56 27 I 4-229 14 20 26 16 3619 1 4
120 7. 8 0 28 2 39 0 6 4 21 10 17 ~5 20 10
121 ..~,~ 8 s - 29 3 35 0 55 21 54 18 14,21 .5
122 2 s 9 3o 4 32 x 46 22 as 19 2 22 1
j No.9· - - T t A
•
Digitized by Google
AN ILLUSTRATION
A ~r A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
Sol in Leo.
Time 10 I[ 12 Afcendant 2 l
3
A. R.
From Nooo. Houfe. Houfe. Houfe.
. Houfe. Houfe.
.00
D. M. H. M. n D~M D.t!tM D. M. DlTLM DtM
- --
122 12 8 9 0 .4 32 1 46 22 ' 38 19 2 22 I
123 14 8 I3 1 5 28 2 36 .23 22 19 51 22 57
124 16 8 17 2 6 24 3 26 24 5 20 40 23 53
Iff 8
.
48 28
125 21 3 7 20 4 IS 24 21 24 49
126 20 8 25 4 8 16 s 5 25 32 22 I7 25 45
127 .22 8 29 5 9 12 5 54 26 t6 23 6 26 40
•
58
128 .24 8 34 6 10 8 6 43 26 23 54 27 35
129 2S . 8 38 . 7 I I 4 7 32 27 41 2'4 42 28 31
130 26 8 42 8 12 0 8 20 28 23 25 30 29 27 .
1JI 28 3 46 9 12 s6 9 8 29 6 26 J8 0 J:f 2~
132 27 8 so 10 •a. 52 9 57 29 4it'S 27. 6 I 18
133 28 8 54 11 14 48 10 45 0 "1.30 27 54 2 14
8 ss I
28
134 29 12 IS 43 I I 33 I 13 41 3 10
135 29 9 2 lJ t6 JS 12 2I 1 55 29 28 4 7
-
136 29 9 6 14 17 33 IJ 9 2 , 36 o t 15 5 8
137 29 9 10 IS i 8 28 I 3 . 57 3 t8 I 2 5 59
138 29 9 14 16 19 23 I4 44 4 0 I 48 6 55
139 28 9 18 17 20 18 15 3I 4 41 2 35 7 52
140 28 9 22 18 21 12 16 18 5 22 3 ~1 8 49
141 27 9 26 19 22 6 17 6 6 4 4 8 9 46
142 26 9 ao 20 2J 017 . 53 6 145 4 55IO 42
143 2 5 9 34 21 2J 54 r8 40 7 26 5 42!11 39
'44 23 9 JS 22 24 48 19 26 8. 6 · 6 28 12 35
145 22 9 41 . 2J 25 42 20 11 8 47 7 14 1J 31
146 20 9 45 24 26 3520 5'7 9 28 8 014 28
147 I8 9 49 25 27 29 21 43 10 8 8 47 15 25
148 I 6, 9 53 26 28 23 22 30 10 48 9 34 16 23
149 14 9 57 27 29 17 23 t6 IJ 29 JO 2·2 17 .~·
I SO Jl to 1 28 0610 24 2 12 9 li 9 18 I 8
151 9 10' 5 29 I 3 2 4 47 I~ so 11 ~6~ 16 I•
IJ2 6 lO 8 30 1 s62s 32 13 30 12 44 15
.
A I ~
Digitized byGoog~e
0 F A S T 1\ 0 L 0 G Y. tBs
A T A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51
by double Horary Times.
Degrees 32 Minutes,
Sol in Virgo.
A R ·· Time 1.0 I I 12 Afccndant 2 3
• ·From Noon. Haufe. Houfe. Houfe. "1. Houfe~ Houfe.
D. M. H. M. .., D.o.M D.o.M D. M. DIM DJoJ>M
- --
152 6 10 8 0 I s6 25 32 13 30 12 44 20 15
'153 3 10 12 1 2 ·+9·26 17 I .If. 9 13 31 21 13
IS+ 0 10 16 2 3 42 27 2 14 49 14: 19 22 ll
154 57 10 20 .3 4 35 27 47 ts 29 lS 6 23 10
155 54 10 24 4 5 27 2B 32 16 9 IS 54 24 9
156 51; 1"0 27 5 6 1 9~9 17 16 48 16 41 25 9
IS7 +8 10 31 6 7 11 0 "1. 2 17 "28 17 29 26 IO
zs8 45 JO 35 ·~
8 3 0 46 18 9 18 17 2~ II
159- 41 lO 39 8 54 I so x8 48 19 5 2 11
160 37 I·O 42 9 9 46 2. 14 19 27 19 ·..,;.3 29 lJ
161 33 lO 46 10 10 as 2 ss 20. 6 20 41 0:12:
162 29 10 so lt II 29 3 42 ·20 48 21' 29 I 13
163 25 JO 5+ 12 12 20 4 26 21 26 22 17 '2 14
164 21 10 57 13 13 12 s 10 22 5 23 s 3 15
165 17 li J. 1·4 14 3 5 $4 22. 45 23 53 4. 16
1,66 12 ti 5 IJ .1'4 55 6 37 2J 24 24 41 s t8
167 8 11" 9 16 · 15 45 7 21 ·2+ 4 25 30 6 19
168 3 11 12 17 16 3~ 8 4 -:24 43 26 19 7 21
168 59 II 16 18· 17 ... .. 8 47 ss 23 27 9 8. 23
--
169 54 11 20 19 t·8 17 9 30 26 2
=~
59 9 26
l70. 49 11 ~3 20 19 710 12 26 41 so 10 .ao
171 4-5 ·u 27 21 l9. ·57 JO 55 27 22 29 41 1l 34 :
172 40 II Jl 22 20 48 11' 39 28 J 0"' 32 12 37.
173 35 11 34 2J 21· JS 12 22 28 40 I 22 J3 41 .
174 JO 11 as 24. 22: 28 1.3 5 29. 20 2 14(4 +5 !
175 2 5 11 42 25 23 18 13 47 29 59 3 61 5 so:
176 110 11 4J 26 24 814 29 Ot39 3 s8ri6 s6 .
17~ 15 Jl 49 27 24 ss IS Il 1' l9 4 51 18 2 :
17 JO 11
~i
28
:~
4815 5~ 2 2 5 44 19 .8
·t79 5 11 19 3sl1.6 37 z 39 6 '38 20 14
t8o· o 1'2 0 80 27 28l7 21 3 19 7 3221 21 .
, A
Digitized by Coogle
'
J86 AN ILLUSTRAl'lON
A TABLE I
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
double Horary Times.
!)oJ in Libra.
A R Time 10 II 1 12 Afcendant 2 3
• • From Noon. Houfe. Houfe. Houfe. ~ Houfe. Houfe.
D. M. H. M·. .a. D~M D»t.M D. M. D"l:fM D:M
--- --
t8o 0 12 0 0 27 28 17 21 3 19 7 32 2I 21
180 55 12 4 1 28 J8 18 4 3 59 8 27 22 27
18 I 50 I2 7 2 29 8 18 46 4 40 6 22 23 33
I 82 45 12 I1 3 29 s6 19 29 5 20 10 17 24 40
183 40 12 IS 4 0 ttt45 20 1 I . 6 2 1
II I2 25 48
184 35 I2 IH 5 1 34 20 54 6 43 12 8 26 57
185 30 12 22 6 2 24 2I 37 7 24 13 5 28 6
186 25 12 26 7 3 13 22 20 8 5 14 I 29 t6
I 87 .20 12 29 8 4 2 23 4 8 46 I4 57 0 )( 25
I88 15 12 33 9 4 52 23 47 9 28 IS 53 I 35
189 I1 12 37 10 5 41 24 31 10 10 16 SI 2 45
190 6 12 40 11 6 30 25 IS 10 52 17 5C 3 55
191 I 12 44 12 7 19 25 59 11 35 t8 so 5 6
191 57 12 48 13 8 8 26 42 12 t8 19 51 6 I7
192 52 12 51 14 8 57 27 26 12 59 20 53 7 28
193 48 12 55 IS 9 46 28 10 I3 43 21 s6 8 40
194 43 12 59 J.6 10 35 28 53 14 26 23 0 9 52
195 39 13 3 17 p 24 29 37 IS 10 24 SII 4
196 35 I3 6 r8 12 ~ 0 t 20 IS 54 25 II 1
12 I7
I97 31 13 IO 19 13 2 I 4 16 39 26 I8 13 30
I98 27 I3 14 20 13 51 I 48 17 23 27 26ji4 43
199 23 13 18 2I I4 41 2 32 I.8 8 28 35 IS s6
200 19 13 21 22 IS 30 3 16 18 54 29 451
17 10
201 IS 13 25 23 16 1 9 4 I 19 39 0:.'5518 24
202 12 I3 29 24 17 91 4 46 20 26 2 619 39
203 9 I3 33 25 17 s8 5 JI 21 14 3 17 20 54
204 6 13 36 26 18 . 48 6 16 22 1 4 29 22 IO
205 3 IJ 40
=~
19 37. 7 I 22 49 5 42 2J 26
206 0 IJ 44 20 26 7 46 23 37 6 5624 42
206 57 13 48 29 2I 16 8 32 24 26 8 10,25 57
207 54 13 52 30 22 6 9 18 25 1S 9 25 27 13
Al
-
· Digitized byG~ogl~
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
- A T A B L E
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
double Horary Times.
- .
Sol in Scorpio.
i Time 10 11 12 Afccndant '2 3
A. ·R. From Noon. Houfe. Hou{e. Houfe. l Houfe. Houfe.
D. M. H. M. "1. DntM D.tM D. M. D=M DMM
. --
2~ 54 13 52 0 22 6 9 18${ 15 9 25 27 13
20 51 13 55 I 22 s6 10 5 2 5 10 42 28 JO
209 49 IJ 59 2 23 46,10 52 26 s6 12 0 29 46
210 46 14 3
(
3 24 37lf 39 27 47 13 20 1CV' 2
211 44 ~4 7 4 25 28.12 25 28 39 15 41 2 18
212 42 14 li 5 26 19'13· 11. 29 30 r6 4 3 35
213 40 14 IS 6 27 10:13 59 0.,. 24 17 J8 4 52
214 39 14 19 7 28 014 47 1 JJ 18 53 6 JO
14 8 28
I
J6 2~
2IS 37 22 5015 2 13 20 19 7
216 J6 14 26 9 29 401
16 26 3 10 21 47 8 47
217 35 14 JO IO 0 .t 31 l7 ~~ 4_ 6 23 16 10 s
,218 34 I4 34 11 I 22 18 5 3 24 46 11 24
219 33 '4 J8 I2 2 13 19 0 6 1 26 '17 12 42
220 32 14 42 I J, 3 419 sr 7 0 27 49 14 0
221 Jl 14 46 14 3 55 20 42 8 0 29 20 15 ·rs
,
222 Jl 14 so IS 4 47 21 34 9 2 ox s6 16 35
223 Jl 14 54 16 5 J8 22 25 10 6 2 13 17 53
224 Jl 14 ss 17 6 29 2J 17 1I 9 4 619 11
22S 31 ts 2 18 7 21 24 9 12 14 ~ 42 20 .29
226 J2 IS 6 I9 8 13 25 2 13 21 7 19 21 48
227 33 15 10 20 9 625 55 14 -29 8 57 23 6
228 33 1S I4 21 9 sB 26 49 IS 37 10 37 24 24
229 34 IS 18 22 10 St 27 441 J6 48 13 18 25 42
2JO 35 IS 22 23 I I 45 28 39 I7 s8 14 027 d
231 36 IS 26 24 12 40 29 35 I9 li IS 42 28 I~
232 3s IS 31 25 13 33 0~32 20 27 17 24 29 3S
233 4° lS 35 26 . 14 28 I 29 21 43 19 8 0 ts 52!
234 42 15 39 27 IS 22 2 26 23 3 20 54 2
jl~
i 285 44 1.) 43 28 16 17 3 24 24 24 22 31 8
J8
..
. 2J6 46 1.) 47 29 17 12 4 23 25 47 24 4 43
. ~87 4S 15 51 30 · rS 8 5 23 27 10 26 5 s 0
No.!)· Uu A
Digitized by Coogle
t88 AN ILLUSTRATION
I
SJQ
A T A B L E
OfHoufes calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes, by
douhle Horary Times. - I
I
Sol in Sagittarius.
A. R.
Time 10 I 1 12 Afcendant 2 3
From Noon. Houfe. Houfe. Houfe. J-j' Houfe. Houfe.J
D.M. H. M. t DtM DJ:t>M D. M. DxM D laM
--- -- ----
237 48 15 51 0 18 8 5 23 27 IO 26 5 6 0
238 51 15 55 1 19 4 6 24 28 37 27 51 7 I6
239 54 16 0 '2 20 0 7 26 o:: 6 29 38 8 32
24° 57 16 4 3 20 56 s 29 I 37 1rr 26 9 48
242 0 J6 8 4 21 52 9 32 3 I1 3 I5 I I 4
243 3 16 12 5 22 48 IO 35 4 48 5 51
I 2 20
244 6 t6 16 6 23 44 ll 38 6 27 6 s6r3 35
245 9 16 21 7 24 41 12 42 8 8 8 461
14 so
246 1 3 16 25 8 25 38 13 47 9 52 10 371
16 5
247 17 t6 29 9 26 35 14 53 11 40 12 27 17 20
248 21 t6 33 10 27 33 16 0 I3 30 14 16Jt8 34
249 25 16 38 11 28 31 17 8 IS 20 16 4.19 48
250 29 I6 42 12 29. 30 18 18 17 19 17 5Il21 I
251 33 t6 46 13 0 J-j' 30 tg 28 19 18 19 37!22 13
252 38 16 51 14 I 29 20 39 21 20 21 2123 25
2 53 43 16 55 15 2 z8 21 51 23 3C 23 424 36
1254 47 16 59 16 3 28 23 4 25 32 24 48'zs 47
I
255 52 17 4 17 4 29 24 19 27 44 26 31,26 57
2 56 57 17 8 18 5 30 25 36 28 ss 28 14 28 8
258 2 17 I 1 19 6 41 26 55 2 )( 17 29 57129 I9
17 16 20 7 33 z8 14 4 38
I
259 7 I ts 39 on 30
260 I2 17 21 21 8 35 29 34 7 0 3 20 1 41
261 17 17 25 22 9 37 o= 55 9 24 5 0 2 51
262 22 17 30 23 10 39 2 17 li 53 6 38 4 1
2.63 27 17 34 24 I 1 52 3 39 14 23 8 I 51 5 IC
264 33 17 38 25 12 45 5 2 16 59 9 51 6 19
265 38 17 43 26 13 48 6 27 19 30 II 27 7 27
266 43 17 47 27 14 52 7 53 22 5 I3 2 8 34
267 48 17 51 28 15 57 9 20 24 39 14- 36 9 40
268 54 I7 s6 29 17 210 49 27 20 r6 910 4t
270 0 t8 0 30 18 812 19 30 0 I7 I4 I I 51
A
. ;,
-
,;·
OF ASTROLo-a·v •.
- . A T A B L E . ~
Of Houfes calculated for the Latitude of 51 · Degrees 32Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
Sol in Capricorn. --- .
R Ttme 10 I I I 12 Afcendant 2 J
A. ·From Noon Houfe. Houfe. Houfe. CV' H oufe. Houfe.
D. M. H. M. J-.t D~M D:M D. M. DtsM 0 tt M 1
- -- I
270 0 18 0 0 1S 812 19 0 0 17 41 11 511.
271 6 18 5 1 19 14 13 so 2 37 19 10 12 s6'
272 12 18 9 2 20 20 IS 23 5 19 20 38 14
~I
r"273 17 18 I3 3 21
2r 57 7 55. 22 5 IS
274 22 18 17 4 22 3 18 32 IO 2Y 23 30 16 IJI
275 27 t8 22 s 23 4220 8 13 2 24 54 IT I7i
276 33 J8 26 6 24 so 2I IS 37 26 d~
I
45 17 20j
27~ 3~ -18 30 7 25 59 23 22 18 7 27 41 19 221i
27 43 18 35 8 27 9 25 0 20 35 29 4 20 24
279 48 t8 39 9 28 19 26 39 2J 0 o n26 21 251
28o 53 18 44. 10 29 28 28 20 25 22 I 46 22 26!
I
281 s8 z8 48 11 o.:=a8 0)( 2 27 43 3 523 281I
283 3 J8 52 12 I 48 1 45 30 0 4( 2" 24 30:
,J
284 8 18 57 13 2 59 3 2S 2 ~ 16 5 39 25 31:
z8s lJ 19 J 14 4 10 5 lO 4 27 6 54 26 32'
286 17 19- 5 IS 5 22 6 54 6 33 8 8'27 33!
287 22 I9. 9- 16 6 3+1 8. 89 8 39 9 20 28 38'
288 27 19 14. 17 7 46'10 25 10 43 ro 31 29 ·32;
289 31 19 't8 18· 8 59 12 12 12 42 11 41 0 211 301
t29° 35 19 22 19 10 12 13 59 14 40 12 so 1 291
!291 39 19 27 20 11 27 IS 46 16 31 13 s8 2 27
292 43 19 3,1 21 12 4~ 17 33 18 20 IS. 5 3 25
:293 47 19 35 22 13. 54 19 21 20 5 16 11 4 23
a94 51 19 89' 23 •s 82 I JO 21· 52 I7 17 5 20
295 54 . 19 44 24 16 22 23 0 2J 33 18 22 6 16
296 57 19 48 25 _1.7 37 24 so 25 13 I9 26 7 13
298 0 19 52 26 18 53 26 39 26 49 20 29 8 9
299 3 19 59 27 20 10 28 26 28 22 21 32 9 5
300 6 20 0 ..28 21 27 0¥12 29 53 22 34 10 2
301 6 20. s- 29 22 43 1 57 1 n 23 ~3 . 35 10 59
~02 I2 20 9 ao 24 0 3 . 4I 2 so 24 36ll 55 -
A
-
-- ...."•
'
Digitized oy Coogle
~go· A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
A TABLE
Of Houfes calculated for .the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
~ol in Aquaries.
Time 10 u I 2 Afcendant 2 I 3
A. R. From Noon. Houfe. Haufe. Houfe. Ii Houfe. Houfe.
D. M. H. M. = D=M D¥M D. M. DnM,DaM
_ _ ,____ 1 - - . '---11
3o2 12 20 9 o 24 o a 41 2 5o 24 361I 1 · 55 .
303 14 20 13 1 25 17 5 26 + 14 25 J6lt2 51
3o4 I 6 20 17 .2 26 34 7 I I
6
5
5
37 26 35 lJ 45
3o5 18 20 21 a 27 51 8 s6 8 · 27 . 331 4 39 .
J06 20 20 2S 4 29 8 10 40 8 17 28 Jl IS 32
307.22 2o- 29 5 OM2512 2S 9 33 29 2816 2'6
308 24 20 34 6 I 4314 10 10 49 Oa2417 19
309,25 20 J8 78 3 liS 5412 3 12018 IJ
~1026 20 42 41917 371314 2 t619 6
Jil 27 20 46 9 6s 37'9 22 14 24 3 1120 0
3I 2 27 20 so 10 55 21 4 IS 32 4 5 20 53
313 28 20 54 I1 8 1322 45 16 40 4 5821 46
314 29 2#' 5s 12 9 3124 24 17 46 s s122 39
315 29 21 2 1J 10 4926 2 18 53 6 4323 31
316 29 21 6 14 13 6-27 38 19 56 7 35,24 23
3I 7 2 9 21 1o rs 12 2429 13 2o 5s 8 2 7 2 5 14
~~s 2' 21 14 16 14 42 ots37 22 o 9 1826 5
319 28 21 18 17 16 o 2 · 10 23 o 1o 9 26 s6
J20 27 21 22 I8 17 19 3 42 24 0 11 027 4
3
.t
321 26 . 2I 26 19 18 37 5 11 24 5s u 5q 28 ,a
322 25 21 ao 20 19 55 68 40 25 55 12 40 20 29
323 24 21 34 21 21 ' 12 8 26 SI 13 29 0~20
324 23 21 as 22 22 29 9 35 27<$'- x4 ~~ 1 11
~25 21 21 41 2J 2J 46 It 1 28 \ 41 IS 6 2 1
J26 20 21 45 24 25 312 26 ~9 J6 IS 54 2 51
327 18 • 21 49 25 26 20 IJ 50 0ms29 16 43 3 42
328 16 21 53 26 27 3715 IJ I 22 17 Jl 4 32
329 14 21 57 27 28 5416 35 2 14 18 20 5 2J
33o 11 22 1 28 ocw-1217 s6~ 3 5 1 9 s 6 1 3
JJI ~ 22 S 29 I 29 I 9 16 J S6 I 9 S6 7 ~
JJ2 u U 8 JO 2 -47 20 34 4- -45 20 44 j_ 51
-- .. - ,. - - . A .
Digitizedb Coogle
. ...
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G·Y.
I . A TABLE . I
'of Hoafes calculated for the ~atitude of 51 Degrees 3~ Minutes. by
. . double Horary Times.
Sol in Pifces.
-
A. R.
Time ro· 11 . 12 2 3
From Noon Houfe Hou(e Houfe Afccndant Houfe Houfe
D. M. H. M. )( D¥M D~M D. 221M. D211M DaM
. ·- - - i
•
~ 332 . 6 2.2 s 0 2 47 20 34 4 45 20 44 ' 7 54
• ~33 3 22 1·2 I 4 3 21 so 5 35 :21 41 . 8 43
334 ·o 22 Ib !2 s 19 23 5 6 23 22 17 9.33
334 S'J 22 20 3 6 35 24 t8 7 12 '23 2 1
·0 23
335 54 22 24 4 7 51 25 30. 8 0 '23 47 ~ 11 13 :
: 336 51 .. 22 27 5 9 6 26 42 s 48 24 31 12 2
~ 337 48 22 3I 6 10 21 27 53 9 35 25 15. 12 51 ·
338 45 22 35 7 11 J6 29 3 lP 22 26 0 . 13 41
339 4~r 22 39 - 8 12 51 (0 n 12 11 7 z6'45 14 30 I
340 37 22 42 9 •4 6 1 20 I1 52 27 30 ·. 15 19
341 33 '22 46 IO •5 20 2 27 ._
1_
2 37 28 14 16 8
34Z 29 22 50 11 16 33 3 33 f3 23 28 sB I 16 57
343 25 22 54 12 ~~ 45 4 39 14 7 29 42 17 46
344 2I 22 57 1J I 57 5 44 '1} 54 0 .n. 25 ' tB 35
345 17' 23 1 14 20 9 6 48 1 35 I 9 ' 19 25
. 346 l.Z 23 5 IS 2I 21 7 51
.16 ··: 17 1 52 20 14 '
347 . 8 23 8 16 22 32 8 54 17 I 2 36 21 3
348 3 23 12 I7 23 43 9 56 '7 44 3 '19 21 52
348 59 2J 16 18 2+ 54 .o 5s 1& 26 4 2 22 41
26
.
4 46
• 349 54 23 20 19 5 II 59 I9 9 23 30
3.60 49 23 23 2p 2i 16 13 0 19 52 5 3° 24 19
1 351 45 23 27 21 2 26 14 0 20 33 6 14 25 8
1352 40 23 31 22 29 36 15 0 21 15 [Jfd 25 ss .
353 35 23 34 23 0 ~ 45 15 5-9 21 56 7 42 26 47
354 JO 21 J.8 24 1 54 r6 58 22
- ~
8 26 2~ g6
'~55 2 5 23 42 25 3 2 17 s6 23 9 10 2 26
~56 20 23 45 '26 4 10 18 52 23 59 9 '54 29 ~5
. ~S~ IS 23 49 27 s tS . 19 47 24 »' 10 J8 O"..t 4
lJS 10 23 53 28 6 26 20 40' 25 21 li 22 0 53
359 5 2J s6. 29 7 33 21 34' 26 2 12. s· 1 43
.
136Q c 24 0 JO 8 40 22 27 26 42 12 49 2 83
.a t'o. 10. .J~ X 1t
-
. . ,;
. \ - •
....
. ,
A N I L L U S T R A O
T I 0 N
I
d
0
It is no uneommon thing with many readers, and particularly thofe
not very converfant with figures. to pafs over all tables as intricate, or
difficult to underftand. But, fince no information can be obtained in the
praCtical part of this fcience wo
ithout them, it is proper to caution all my
readers again£\: this much miftaken notion; for every pc;rfon who can make
I
_ufe of a Ready Reckoner, or 'I'ratjer's Sure Guide, may with equal eafe un-
derftand all the tables calculated for this work.
o/
I
The ufe of the Ephemeris, in fetting a figure, is to point out the places
of the planets at noon, whenever required. For this purpofe, we refer
to the given day of the month, in the firft column of the right-hand page,
· and oppofite to it, in the fecond column, is the Sun's place or longitude
that day at' noon. So alfo, in the fame line of the fucceedi~g columds
through the whole table, are the places of the Moon, Saturn, Jupiter,
Mars, Venus, and Mercury, as fpecified at the top of each diftinti co-
lumn ; and thefe are the true -places of the Sun, Moon, and planets, •
every day throughout the year, precifely at twelve o'clock at noon.
Therefore, ifthe :figure be erected before that time, the diurnal motion
of the planets muft be deduCted in hours and minutes, in proportion to
the rate they move at per hour; but, if it be ereCted after noorl; then .fo
many. hours or minutes mull be added as w~ll bring them to the precife
time of erecting the figure. ·
The twelve tables of Hou{es are next to be referred to ; and tbefe ar~
calculated t<? thew what degrees of each fign poffds the cufps of the
twelve houfes of heaven when the figure is erected. They begin with
the Sun's entrance into the fign Aries, and 1hew his progrefs through
each degree of the twelve figns of the zodiac. 0
•
_ Now let it be required, by way of example~ to ereCt a figure for Fri-
day, the 11th day of June, 1784; at 11 h. 24 min. A. M. that·is, at .
, '0~ twenty-four minutes paft eleven o'clock in the morning. To do this, I
,~ " ·' refer .to the firft coJumn of the right-hand page of the Ephemeris for
'.~ ~~
-
'f June, and oppofitc the 11th dily of the month, in the fecond column,
1\ ~~~ which has 0 's longitude printed at the top, I find 21. 3~ 27, with the
; ( ' fign n prefixed at the fide of the firft range of figures. Th1s indicates,
\' ~ i th~t the Sun, at twelve o'clock that day, is i_n .twenty-om: de~rees three
0
- \ ,~' ~ mmutes and tWeQty-feven feconds of Gem101; Q!il the ~t~ aJ!d
~ feconds, when lefl·1han thir.!J, ~ rejeaed without fenfible ~r, _a~d,
-~ w~ m~ thantnirty, hav~ a! man~ added as will make them u~ e~n
~ degrees. I therefore turn to the table of houfes, and-in the page enti-
tled Sol in Qemini I look for the column that has the fign n a:t the
to_p, which ia -the third s I feck for .21 degrees, and in the colu.Qln on
/u/~1~,.._ f'"? /tJ1. the
Digitized by Coogle
0 F _A S ·T.lt O· L o··G Y,; ·
··ehele(t fide of it, entitled lJ'imefrom nD,n, I find, even with 21 degrees, \~ ' '
s.h. 21 min• . The hours and minutes thus fotsnd ar~ uniformly to be ~ '
added to the time or hour of the day when the figure is erected, un. . ·
. lefs it be precifely at noon, in which cllfe, as we have before obferved, ~ ·
the places of the Sun, planets, and figns, are to be fet down exatUy as '\ ~ ~ .
they·are found in the .Ephemeris, and tables· of hQufes. But, the pre- 1·~·,'"\ ·
:feot figure being erected j_uft thirty-fix: minutes before twelve o'clock, I -~ i'';.
arn to add this. time, reckoning from noon the preceding day, to the 1.~
. above 5 h. 21 min. and from thefe two fums added together I fubtrad : ~
;twenty-four hours, and the r.emainder will give the degrees of each of the~~
twelve figns, as then pofited upon the; cufps of the horofcope! thus: ~ { \~.
Time anfw~ring to 21 degrees of n
'fime from noon the preceding day
Addtd together, make.
Subtrafr
h.. mm. ~
5
:l3
21 .
24
45
0
Remaindet 4 45-
~.,:a~>~ ~~:k ~74-~~~~
I feek this remainder in the tablesof houfe~e~d ~- i..Q G~i, in·
the column of Timefrom noon; but, not finding 4• 45• I take the neare{l
· number to it, which is 4· 46; and oppofite this number,. in the next
column on the right, I find 13 degrees of Gemini in the tenth houfe,.
. which i-s denoted by loth hou{e n, at the top of th~ column; and there-
. fore I place thi.rtt?en degrees of Gemini in the line or c.ufp of the tenth.
houfe of the figure. This· done, I refc:r to the next column in rotation •
. to the right hand, and in the fame line with the twenty-one degrees of ~
Gemini I find 20. 7, and, looking to t-he top of the column, find it to· ~ •
be twenty degrees and [even minutes of the fign e, with 11 houfe over,
and therefore I, place twenty degrees feven minutes 4lf Cancer upon the
· eufp of the eleventh houfe. I follow the fame rule with the next co..
-lum n, where I find 21. i!!, and looking to the top find the fign ..51., 12 .;-
d
. houfe,_ and accordingly prac_
e twenty-one degrees thirty-eight minutes · ·
of Leo upon the cufp of the twelfth houfe in the figure. Then.I refcar
, to the next column, where I find 17· 1, and at the top the word 4fcen..i
.dant with the fign IIJt prefixed, which lignifies-that feventeen degrees one.·
.minute of Virgo occupy the firft.houfe or Afcendant, which. I place ac.- •,
.eordirigly. I then refer to the riext column, and even with the preced-
. jng figur~s ftand 9· 15, when, looking up. the column, I ob!erve the
ilgn .Do below IIJt, and 2 houfe at the top, which ilicws-that nine degrees
fifteen m_
inutes of Libra are to be placed on the.cufp of the fecond houfe•
. This done, I refer to the laft column, ~nd even with the former num-
2 b~S·
, oigitizedbyGoogle
·' ..
.. . ·..
..
I '
~,..
.. .
19f AN ILLUSTRATION
· .. hera I find 7. 48 ; and, looking up the column a~ ·~fore, 1-abferv e the.
ngn 1ft below 6, and 3 houfe over., which indicates that feven degrees
'forty-eight minutes of Scorpio are to be placed on the cufp -of the third
houfe. Thus the fix oris.etal houfc:i, namely, theten.th, eleventh, twelfth,
firft, fecond, and third, are furnilhed with the degrees of each fign then.
rifing upon them; and the fix occidental houfes. being oppofite to 'the
former, are always furnithed with the .fame .degrees and minutes"()[ the
oppofite figns ; thus.:
.. ..
...
' .
. I . -
.··...•
Houfes oppofite~ Signs oppofite.. •
4 10 y .0.
5 1.1 2$ "1.
6 12 .n t
I
~
a J-J>
.2 .n. -
-
3 9 f9l )E
So that -the 'tenth boufe is oppofite ·to the fourth~ and the fourth to
the tenth; the eleventh to the fifth, and the fifth to the eleventh; and
{o thro,ugh .the whole; the ufe of .which is .that, if on .the cufp of the
tenth houfe you find th·e fign· Arie'S, then·on the cufp of the fourth houfe
you.muft place the fign Libra; and, whatever degree and minute of Aries
po1fe1fes the cufp of the terith houfe, the fame degree and minute of Li-
,-bra muft be placed on the cufp of the fourth houfe; and the fame rule
muft be obferved with all ·the other houfes and figns, .vhich is univerfal
.and ever holds true. For example, in the prefent figure, we have placed
13 degrees of ·u on the cufp of the tenth houfe; now t being oppofite
to u , and the fourth houfe to the tenth. I therefore place 13 degrees of
't on the cufp '.of the fourth houfe. Upon the cufp of the eleventlt
houfe, 2o degrees 7 minutes of Cancer being already placed, and the
'fifth houfe being oppofite to the eleventh, and "-~ oppofite s, I there-
fore put 20 degrees 7 minutes of Jl:f upon the cufp of the fifth houfe.
The cufp of the twelfth houfe being a]fo occupied with 21 degrees 38
minutes of n, I place 21 degrees .JS minu~~ of the oppofite fign :::
upon the cufp of the fixth ·houfe, which is <>ppofite the twelfth. Upon
.the cufp of the fitft houfe, or afcendant, their is 17 degrees 1 minute of
IIJt, and the feventh houfe being oppofite to the firft, .and the figo )( to
..,.., !-accordingly 'place 17 degrees 1 minpte of M upon the cufp Gr line
of the feventh hQufe. Having alfo plac.ed 9 degrees I 5 minutes of .0.
·upon the cufp of the r~cond houfe, I plate 9 degrees I 5 minutes of the
·oppofite fign ¥ ·upon the cufp of t_
he eighth houie, whi<;h is oppofite to
the fecond. I then refer to ,thCillird hoafe, t'lpon the cufp of -which ate
,placed 7 degrees·48 minutes of ·"t; and the oppofite.houfc to this being
. .the
'
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 195
tbe ninth, and ~ ·the oppofite fign, I place 7 degrees 48 minutes of
Taurus upon the cufp of the ninth houfe; and thus the twelve houfes
are completely occup.ied with the twelve figns of the zodiac, with the
degrees afcending, at the precife time of eretl_ing the figure.
. Having fo far fucceeded, the n~xt thing is to place the Sun, Moon, and
planets, in the figure, agreeable to their pofition at that _
time inthe heavens,
and this is alfo to be done by the help of the right-hand page of the Ephe-
meris. For inftance, I again refer to the 11th of June, a~d oppofite
to it, in the column of the 0 's longitude, I find him in 21 degrees 3 •
minutes and 27 feconds of Gemini that day at noon. But as the figure is
erected thirty-fix minutes before noon, I note how far the Sun has moved
from noon the preceding day, and find he has gone at the rate of fifty-
feven minutes, which gives a difference of one minute and twenty-fcven
feconds for the time before noon, as follows : ·
_D.. min. {ec.
_Sun's place at noon, June 1 Ith 21 3 27
DeduCt for 36 min. before noon o 1 27
Remains 21 2 o
Thus I find the Sun's place at t_
wenty-four minutes after eleven o'clock,
in 21 degrees 2 minutes of Gemini; which fign being then upon ~he cufp
of the tenth houfe, I therefore place th~ Sun in that houfe, clofe to the
~
4•
.-'
' ~
..
• I •
. ~·
. ~ ..·
I' ~- -a..
.. :
..
.. ....
.. . . ; .,.
. .. .
.., ~ ..•.
.·.:: ..
,, ~.-
. .
. (; ·.
.
• ~ ·.·
" .
J!gn, with thefe degrees and minutes. I then refer to the Ephemeris for ·, _.;.·· ·-:-
the Moon's place, and in the ·column of her longitude, oppofite the I uh -~ :' ......
day of the month, I find her in 5 degrees 46 minqte' of cv-, at noon ; but, ·' ~ :;.. ~
to know her place thirty-fix minutes before, I note how much the goes
in an hour, and find her motion to be 35 minutes; then I dedutt 21 mi-
nutes for the time before noon, ancl find her true place to be in 5 ~•.,,.
25 minutes of Aries, which I accordingly enter before the cufp of the
eighth houfe clofe to that fign. I then refer to · t~e Ephenieris for the
planet 'F1 , and on the 1 I th of ·June I find him•retr<?_grade in 22 degrees
53 minutes of the fign J.:t, wherefore I place him underCapricorn,in the
fifth houfe, with an R prefixed, to denote that he is retrograde.-I refer
to the Ephemeris in like manner for the planets Jupiter, Mars, Venus,
and Mercury, which I alfo enter in their proper places in the figure, viz.
Jupiter in 7 degrees 36 minutes of M, Mars in 27 degrees 1 minute oi
,e, Ve~~s in 5 degrees 5 minutes of n, and Mercury retrograde, in 24
degrees 2 minut~s o~ the fame fign.
The planets being thus entered, I next refer to the top of the (econd
page of the Ephemeris, for the column of the Moon's node, which we
term the Dr~gon's Head, and I find on the 7th day of the month it is·
No. 10. Y Y. · in
oi~itized by Coogle
. 196 · ·A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
' ' .
M '9 f);..,,.;."!--in four degree&'tf Pifees; but, a's it move•·backward about three .minutest
.. per day, I deduct eleven minutes, to ·bring it to the iuh of June, and
I .
its place will then be in four degrees 8 minutes of Pifces; I therefore
enter it in the fixth houfe, under the fign M ; and, as the place of. the
Dragon's Tail is always oppofite to t'he Dragon's H~ad, I place it in the
fame degrees of the oppofite fign, which in this·figure falls in the twelfth
· houfe, which is oppofite to·the fixtb. '. .
j ~ The figure is now entirely completed, except putting in the P.art of
., <l t· Fortune, which is the diftance of the Moon's place from the Sun's added
~
. to the a(~endant• . The mode of determining this has commonly been by
firft findmg the true place of the Moon, then the true place of the Sun;
Jthen fubtracHng the Sun's place from the Moon's, and adding to there-
mainder the degrees of the afcendant; _
and this, if taken in 'the fpbere of
~ the Moon, gives the place of the Part of Fortune. But, a much· more
. ~ tl correct method having beeri':".adopted by the learned~/acidus, we recom-
l ~ mend. it in preference to any other; it is as follo~s : Firft note the fign
CJ • l and degree on the afcendant, and enter with the fame fign and degree in
~ ~t'¥ the table of oblique afcenfions calculated for this work, ir! _~he_lat~~~~
~ ~~rein_you ere~ y~~~-~g!:!r~; and in the common angle OT.mee~ing you
c( f WJ.11 nnd the number requtred. Then enter the fame table with the de-
Jgree of the Sun, and fubtratt the oblique afce~fion of the one from the
other, and the remainder will be th.e Sun's diftance from the t afcendant.
4 ~ Then take the right afcenfion of the Moon,· and.cnter the table of the·
_; \C Moon's righ~ afcenfion under the degrees of north or fouth latitude, as
OS' •t"'1h9 then happens to be-; -and, when the Moon's right afcenfion is found,
fubtraa it from the Sun's diftance from the afcendant, and the remainder
will be the right · afcenfion of the Part of FortWlc. · For example, in
··~·..~'·..>"' lhe·figure before us: · deg. min..
· The fign 1IJt has 17 deg. 1 min. upon the afcen· '
dant~ the oblique afce-n·fion of which is 16'1 33
The oblique afcenfion of the 0 (both being in
northern fign s, . nothing is added) is · 47 · 43
Which being fubtrad:ed from the othes, remains I 13 so
Then fubtraft the tight ,.a(cenfion of the Moon, 2 '52
· . . · · · Remains 111 ~
Which is the right afcenfion of the Part of Fortune. ;I refer for this-
fum to_the firft column of the preceding tables of h?ufe•., under A. R.
t In this operation always obferve, that, if the ·ftgn afcending be fouth~rn,. and the fign in
which the Su1.1is pofited be northern, then add the whole circle Of the zoc!iac, or three hundred
and fix~y de&rees, of the northern fico s ~nd viti 'fllrft,.if a DOrdacm fign afccmd, awl tho Sunbe ·
placed m a fouthern. . -
•, · which
' '
I •
Digitized by·Google
,
.0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
which lignifies Right Afcenfion, and in the fourth table, or Sol in Can-
cer, I find 1 J 1 deg. 39 min. which is only nineteen minutes !efs; and op-
pofite to this fum, in the third column of the table, ftands 20, with the
Jign !TJS at the top, and this denotes the Part of Fortune to be in 20 de-
,greet of Cancer; but, as nineteen minutes were wanting to make up the
number, I allow one minute more, becaufe fifteen minutes on the equator
is equal to I minute of time; and hence the true ·place of the Part ofFor-
tune falls in 20 degrees 1 minute of Cancer; and I accordingly enter it be..
low that fign in th:: fcheme, which is now completed, and ftands thus.
q-1.3 .
This figu~e includes all_ that is . ~equir~d. ~or the J?Urpofe of Judging
:horary quefttons, and the hke; but, 10 natlvttlcs, and m the more imme-
diate concerns of life and death, regard mull: be had to fhe fixed lbr.s
according to their magnitude, influence, and pofitions near the afcendan;·
. er its-lord, near the Moon, or the other figni6cators. And, becaute it is·
·cf importanee to know their natures,· qu.alities, and figniticators,. I 1hall
fubjoin a table of the mo{l confiderable fixed fi:ars in the northern he...
mifphere, and then lhew how to colled: fuch of them into the horo(copc
as may relate to the fubjcct at any tlme .under inveftigatioa.
• ·A TABLE
i'~
. Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of the principal FIXED STARS ne'ar the Ecliptic, !hewing
their true Longitude, Latitude, Magnitude, and Nature.
NAMES of the F.IXED STARS. I Longttude Lalltude. \l\1ag Nature
--=-=---.,..----- S D. M.D. M. D. .
""""S-ou-t.,..h-:-.E-:-
.n-:d-o-::f-t:-he....,.:-:-r:-a-:-tl-o~t-:the Whale <'f' o zs 2o ·47 S 2 Q
' • TheStarinthe -
Wil)gof Pegafus <>r 6 11 ~ 35 N z 3' ~
The Head of Andromeda <>r II 20 z5 ·42 N 2 1l- i
Whale's Belly <>(' I4 sS 25 I s 4 r,
The Girdle of Andromeda <>r 27 zz zs 59 N z ~
Bright Star in the Head of the Ram ~ 4 39 9 57 1 3 ~ 3
The left .Foot of Andromeda ~ I I I I 27 46 N 2 i
The Bright Star in the Jaw of the Whale ~ 1 r 29 1 z 37 S · :z Q
The Head of Al~ol Medufa ti 23 9 zz 22 N 3 ~ 'll-
The Pleiades ~ z6 o 4 3o N 5 3 l>
The middle Star of the Seven ~ 26 56 4- o N 3 3' l>
Oculus Taurus IT 5 25 z 36 S 3 i
Aldeb IT 6 45 5 31 S I 3
Rigelaran · · IT I3 ·s6·3I 11 S 1 'll-· 8
The fonner Shoulder of Orion , · u:~~ 17 531~·16 53. S 2 3' ~
Slie Goat. II ' •·8 55 zz 51 N I ~ t
.. : ' TFre.former Star in Orion's Belt • n t::9 I9 23 38 s z u }}
The middle Star in Orion's Belt IT 20 23
1
24 33 S z 'lJ. ~
The higheft Star in the Head of Orion n 20 40 13 26 s 4 u . ~
The Starin the Horn of the Bull IT 2 r 41 2 14- S 3 8
The following 'Shoulder of Orion n 25 41 r6 6 S 2 3 II!
Propus II 27 51 o I 3 S 4 t
The right Shoulder of ,r\lij'i~a n 28 2I zI 27 N 2 t II!
'· - The Bright Foot of G emim 2D '6 o 6 4-S S 2 t1 ·i
Caftor Apollo ms 17 Io Io 2 N z t ~ l7
Pollux Hercules !!iJ 20 1:z 6 38 N 2. t
The fmaller Dog Star a u 47 t 5 57 S 2 ~ ' ~
Praefcpe Sl. -4 1 s I I4 N Neb 3' )
North Aifellus Sl. 4 20 3 8 N 4 . 0' 0
South Aifellus Sl. 5 37 o 4- S + 0' 0
Cor Leonis, Regulus ,• Q. 26 z7 o 26 N 1 3'
Heart of Hydra ' ;. .Q. 24 12. 2z 24 N 1 r, !i>
Vindemiatrix 7IJt 6 sz I6 15 S 3 T:l i ~
The Back of the Lion ti.J1. 8 Io '4 20 N 2 r, ~
The Tail of the Lion ~ 18 32 rz 18 N I ~ ~ ~
Crater, or the Bottom of the Pitcher 7IJt 20 27 33 o S 4 '.l ~
ArCturus • .a. 19 7 I 30 N 1 'it. t
The Virgin's Spike, 'Arilla .a. 20 45 I • 59 N · 1 ~ ct.
The South Balance l'l, 1 z 6 o 2 5 N z T:l ~
The North Balance l'l, 16 17 8 35 · N 2 U ~
The left Hand of O_phincus l'l, 29 15 17 1·9 . N 3 t 'Q
Higher Star in the Forehead of the Scorpion .t o 5 1 5 N z ' 'Q ~
The left Knee of Ophinc11s .t 6 9 II 30 N 3. 8 'll
Cor Scorpio t 5 57 4 o S 2. 8 'li-
The Scorpion's Heart, Antares .t 6 42 4- 27 S 1 ~ t
The right Knee of Ophincus .t 14- .55 7 1S N 3 ~ ~
The Bright Star of the Vultur~ ~ 28 38 29 21 · N 2 r, ~
The Mouth of Peg_afus ::: 8 31 zz 7 N 3 ~ ~
The Tail of the Goat ::: 2o 28 2 29 S 3 J,
Marchab )( zo 25 19 z6 N z $ ~
Fomahaut )( o 4c 21 o S 1 !l ~
Scheat Pegafi )( 25 4-2 31 7 N 2 J,
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 199
The firft column contains the names of tJ'le ftars; the fecond coloma
fhews their longitude, or in what degree and minute of the twelve figns
they are fituated; the third column fhews the degree and minute of their
latitude, either north or fouth, which is denoted by the letters N. S.
The fourth column denotes their magnitude; and the fifth thews their
natural quality; for example, the ftar in the wing of Pegafus is in fix
degrees eleven minutes of Aries; has twelve degrees thirty-five minutea
north latitude, is of the fecond magnitude, and participates of the nature
and quality of Mars and Mercury. The fixed ftars may be found and
diftinguiilied in the heavens by their conjunCtions with the Moon, Qr by
obferving their order from any given point in the h~vens; thus begin
with the Pleiades, vulgarly called thefewn jlars, and next to them in
order, but fomewhat lower, is a large red fiar called Aldebaran, or the
fouth·eyc of the Bull; next follows Orion's Belt or Girdle, which are three
fi;ars in a rank thus, • ••, and are vulgarly caJled the Yard or Ell.
Next follo~s a ftar called the Grtat Dog, which is a large bright llaF,
fomewhat lower than the Girdlt of Orion. The next is called the head
- of Gemini, and is about the height of the Seven Stars; there are two to·
gether appear thus, ••; the largeft qf the ,two is the ftar here nomi-
nated. The next, which follows in order, is called South .A.J!ellus, no
great ftar, but of a red colour; there are two of them, near together anj.. _
alike, and fiand or appear thus, ••; the loweft of the two is tho ftar
here meant. Next in order. follows a ft.ar called the Head of Hydra,
lower than Affdlus, and of-« brightwhite colo.ur~ Then follows a ftar
in the flank of the Lion, very bright, and about the height of theSe-
ven Stars. Next to that the Yirgin's Girdle, a bright ftar, and lower
than the flank of the Lion. And next follows 'a curious ftar called·the
Pirgin's Spike, very large and bright; it is a ftar of the firft mag-
nitude, and appears a little lower or more foutherly than the Virgin's
Girdle. Next in order follows the ftar called .Ar&lurus, a very remarka-
ble bright red-coloured ftar, about the latitude of the Pleiades. Then
follows the ftar of the Crown, large ~nd bright, and higher than Arctu-
rus. Then the Right Shoulder of Hercules, of a pale white colour, near
the altitude of the Seven Stars. Then follows the head of Ophincus, of
a pale-white colour, and fomcwhat fouthward of Hercules. Then ap-
pears a ftar under the armpit of Sigittary, a bright ftar, but very low.
Next, the brig~t ftar of the Yulture, large, and lower than the Seven Stars.
The next ftar is'-called the Left Shoulder of the Water.!Jearer; about the
altitude of Orion's Girdle, of a pale-white colour. The next in order is
the ftar called Mf!rcha!J, being a ftar of a bright colour, a little lower than
the Seven Stars, but much bigger. Then follows the Southern ftar of
the Whale's 'fail; this ftar is of a pale colour, and about the height of·
the Son the: 1horteft day. Th,en follows a fiar c~lled the Girdle of A_n-
No. 10. Z z ·' . dromeda-,
Digitized by Coogle
.aoo AN . fLLUSTRATION
Jromeda. a bright glittering fiar, and much ·higher than the Plciadet.
Laftly, there is the bright ftar of the Ram, of a red colour. and lower
than the Seven Stars. Thofe that would be curious in thefe {peculations
thould fiudy the celefiial globe, and learn to be very expert in the ufe of
it, which is moft eafily attained, ,and alfo very entertaining.
Now, to know whether any of the fixed ·ftars fall into the figu;e ereCt-
ed, I note the fign and degree upon the cufps of the houfes, and then exa-
mine the fecond column of the foregoing table of fixed fiars, and, if I find
either of them afcending or defcending within five degrees of the figns
upon the cufps of the fe~eral houfes, they are then to be entered in the '
fame ma~ner as the plapets, and their qualities and infiuencea are to be
.duly weighed, according to the nature of whatever planet they corre-
fpond with, which is iliewn in the laft column of the table. In the fore..
going figure of the heavens, I obferve feventeen degrees one minute of ·•
upon the afcendant; then, looking down the twelve figns in order in the
fecond column of fixed fiars, I find 'lR 18. 32, and even with it in the fidl:
column, the tail of the Lion, which thews that this fiar is a)fo afcend- ,
ing within five degrees of the cufp of the firfi houfe, or afcendant; and
therefore I place it in the firft houfe of the figure, under the fign "l. I then
examine the other cufps according to their rotation, and, on the cufp of
the fourth houfe, I find t 13. o, and, i'n the table of fixed ftars, I find
,t 14. 55, and even with it the Right Kne~ of Ophincus, which
fuews that this fiar is within two degrees of the cufp of the fourth
·houfe, in which I accordingly place it. On the cufp of the fixth houfe
I fee :: 21. 38• and in the t~ble of fixed fiars I find Marchab Pegafi in
:: 20. 25; I therefore place it under the tign :: in the fixth houfe of the
figure. Upon the cufp of the eighth houfe in the figure is ¥ 9• 1 5,.
and in the table of fixed ftars I find the head of Andromeda in ¥ 1 1• 20 :a!.
I th~refore p~ace it jufi within the c~fp of the eighth houfc. Upon th; T
n1edaum creh, I find II 13. o, and an the tab]e I find the emineru fixecl·
ftar Rigel, of the firfr magnitude, in II I 3··s6, I therefore place him iD ,
the mid-heaven. Upon the ·cufp of the eleventh fiands _s 20. ·7, and
io the table I find the ftar Pollux in 221 20. I 2, which I enter within the·
cufp of the eleventh houfe. upon the cufp of the twelfth is .Q. 21. as.,
and in the t,able I find the ftar Hydra in .n. 24. 12, and tht!refore I enter,
him in twenty-four degrees of Leo in the twelfth houte; and thus lhavc .
collected the pofitions of all the planets and eminent fixed fiars, as they.
ftood in the heavens at twenty four minutes paft eleven o'cJ..pck, on Fri..
day the eleventh of June, 1784. As the fixed fi:ars·move on ~heirlon- ­
gitude at. the rate of _fifty feconds per year,.and of courfc vary in their po- .
titian. l have for this reafon calculated a table, by which their .fitu~tion.
may be: known at any g_
iven ti~e, pa.ft or to come.. '
.TABLE
Digitized by Coogle
201
•
TABLE, lhewing the Places of the FlX!D S"T Atts, at·aftY·Ti~, paft
or to come.
Years. degrees Min. Second~ 1 Years.jdegrees Min. 5eeond~
I 0 0 so 40 0 33 20
2 0 1 40 so 0 41 40
a 0 2 ao 6o 0 so - o.
4 - 0 3 2P 70 0 sB 20
s 0 4 10 I
bo 1 6 40
6 0 s 0 90 1 IS 0
7 0 5 so 100 1 23 20
8 0 ~ 40 200 2 46 40
9 0 7 30 aoo 4 10 0
10 0 8 20 400 5 33 20 I
I
20 0 16 40 soo 6 s6 40
I
30 0 2 _~ 0 6oo 8 19 0
Now, fuppofe it were required to know the fituarion of .Aidt6aran, twenty
years ago; I refer to the table of fixed ftars, and find him in fix degrees
forty-five minutes of Gemini, in this prefent year; I then enter the CO•
lumn of years in the above table, at No. 20, and even with it in the foJ.
lowing columns ftand o. 16. 40, which !hews that Aldebaran has moved ·
fix teen minutes and forty feconds in twenty years; and, this fum being .
deduCted from fix degrees forty-five minutes, his prefent place in Gemi-
ni,.thew& that twenty years ago he was pofited in fix degrees eighteen mi-
nutes and twenty feconds of this fign. This rule will hold good for any
other ftar, or for any number of years; only obferving, that, if it be re-
quired to know the {lar's place.twenty years hence, then the fixteen minutes
and forty feconds muft be added; and fo in proportion for any other length
of time. But,. fince the afpeCts of the planets at the time of ereCting the
figure conftitute the principal index of our judgment, I examine their
pofition in this refpect·
, and note them down under the title of the figure,
where the~ ftand as a.conftant guide t~ our judgment on the m~tter under.-
oopfideratlon.· · For anftancc, I examme the figure above projected; and
in 'thct mid-heaven I find th~ Sun in twenty-one degrees two .minutes of
Qemini, and Mercury in tWenty-four degrees two minutes of the fame:
fi.n, applying by his re.trogtade motion to a partile conjunCtion with the
Sun, which I note thus, cS' 0 ~ . Examining the other planet's, I find.
Venus-in five degrees five minutes o_f. G~mini,.and the Moon in ti\·e de-
grees twenty-five minutesof Aries; I then reckon from fivedegr.ees of Aries .
to five degrees of Taurus is thirty dc:grees, .and from five degrees of Tau--
rus to fi~e degrees of Gemini .is thirty degrees more; thefe, amounting to · ,
fi.xty- deg~ees, conftitute a partile fextile afpea,. which I thus note,
2- ;.*'>)., ..
, ., E
Digitized by Coogle
.AN I·LLUSTR.ATI ·ON
r,* .) t • Then I obfer~ Jupiter in fev-en degrees thirty-fix miftut-es of
.Pifces, and Venus in five degrees five mioutcs of Gemini, and, their dif-
tance from each other being reckoned as before, they are found to be ncar
eighty-eight degrees apart; and, as ninety degrees make a quartile, they
are now within each other's orbs, and are confequently in a plati.c a
applying·to a partile·afpe'Cl:, becaufc Venus is afwifter planet than Jupi...
ter; wherefore I ·note down this afped: ·a t 11-. Then I find Mars ill
twenty-feven degrees one minute of Cance~ , and Saturn retrograde in
twenty-two degrees fifty-three ·minutes of Capricorn , which being op-
pofite figns, and the planet's degrees within each other's o('bs, conftitute
a platic oppofition, which I note thus, 8 ·ll 1. Thefe being all
the afpecb, I range them together under the title of the figure thus,
6 G> 1 * » ·t -o t 11- 8 f) 1 • This figure is ereCted in the hour of
Mars, as may be {een by-
referring to.the table of planetary hours; I there-
fore fignify it thus, 1 hor. and, the lat-it~de .under which the figure is
.ereCted ·being that of London I enter 5-1. 32, that is, fifty-one degrees
.thirty-two minutes north latitude. But, as no figure can be eretled by
the foregoing tables of houfes for any other latitude than that of London,
·Without being rectified by the pofitions of the poles, I here_fubjoin a
table of the poles pofitions for the ele~th, third, twelfth, and fecond,
houfes, whereby a ngure may be ereete for any latitude from thirty to
fixty degrees. . .
TABLE of the Circles of Pofitions of th~ eleventh, third, twelfth, and
.fecoud, Hou_fes, from thirty-one to fixty Degrees of Latitude.
Afcen- 11 & 3 12 &: 2 Afcen- I J & ~ · 12 & 2
dant Houfes Houfes dant Houfe Houfes
D. D. M. D. M. D. D. M. D. M.
3' II 25 21 ss 46 19 28 35 9
32 11 52 22 47 47 20 7 36 8
33 12 19 23 35 48 20 49 37 .8
34 12 · 48 24 24 49 21 33 3H 10 -
35 13 17 25 13 so 22 17 39 . I~
36 13 48 26 4 51 23 4 40 16
37 14 17 26 55 52 2J St 41 20
38 14 49 27 46 53 24 40 4Z 26
39 15 20 28 38 54 . 25 34 43 32
40 tS 52 29 32 55 26 29 44 41
41 t6 25 JO 25 s6 27 25
.. 45 51
42 16 59 3I 22 57 28 24 47 0
43 17 36 32 t6
1
ss 29 26 48 13
44 t8 13 33 IJ S9 JO 30 49 26
45 t8 so 34 I 1 6o 31 39 so 42
Suppo(c
Digitized by Google
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 203
Suppofc it were required to find the poles elevation of the eleventh_
third, twelfth, and fecond, houfes for the latitude of fifty-three degrees,
I enter the table at No. 53, under the title afcendant, and right againft
jt I find under the eleventh and third houfes twenty-four degrees thirty
minutes, which is the poles elevation; and under the twelfth and fecond
houfes I find forty-two degrees twenty-fix minutes, which is the p()les
elevation for the twelfth and fecond houfes; and in this manner they may
be found for any other latitude.
. Now, by knowing the poles elevation for thefe houfes, a figure of the .
heavens may be ereCted for the nativity of any perfon born within thirty-
one to fixty degrees of latitude. For example, fuppofe a perfon born
in fifty-three degrees of latitude, on the firft of June, q84, 'at thirty-
fix minutes paft five o'clock in the afternoon, what would be the de-
grees of each fign upon the cufps of the twelve houfes ? to know this,
turn to the Ephemeris for the Sun's place on the firft of June, and it
will be found in eleven degrees thirty minutes of Gemini; then refer to
·the table of houfes for the Sun in. Gemini, and in the column under
toth houfe, I look down for 11. ao, but, finding no minutes, I look into
the column upon the left hand under time from nooa, where I find
4 h. 38 min. the next arch of time being 4 h. 42 minutes, !_divide
the difference for the thirty minutes. which makes the true time 4 h. 40
min. To this I add 5 h. 36 min, the time after noon, which added to-
gether make 10 h~ 16 min. which I feek in the column of timefrom
noon and in the next column on the right hand I find the figure 2,
with to houfe 'll at the top, which denotes that two degrees of Virgo
arc at .that time upon the cufp of the tenth houfe. Then, in order•to
know what figns po1fefs the other houfes, I look into the firft column of
the table, with A. R. at the top, which fignifies the right afcenfion of
. time. and even with the above number I find 154· o, which declares that
to .be the right afcenfion of the mid-heaven. To tltefe 154 degrees I
add3o, which make together .1 84 ; then I refer to the above table for
poles pofition in fifty-three degrees, and even therewith ftand 24. 40.
which is the pole of the eleventh houfe. I then refer to the table of
oblique afcenfioos, at the end of this work, for twenty-five degrees of la-
titude, and feek the number 184, which I find in the column under Li-
.bra, and J 2 min. over; then I look into the firft column of degrees in this
table, and. even .to 184 ftand 4; but thefe twelve minutes being too
much, I equate for them by the Sexagenary Tables, placed alfo at the end
of this work, by which I find that three degrees forty-three minutes of
Libraare to be placed on the cufp ofthe eleventh houfe. Then I add thirty
degrees to the above 184, for the twelfth houfe, which make 214. I re-
No. Jo. 3 A . fer
'
Digitized by Coogle
A·N ·I -
tLUS'tRATION
fer to the above table of poles pofition in the latitude of fifty~three de-
grees for the pole of the twelfth boufe, which I find to be 42. 26 ;- l re-
jea the 26, and in the table of oblique afcen6o~ for lat. 42 I feek 214
which I find under the column of Libra; and, looking into the firft co-
lumn of degrees, I find 27; but, equating by the Sexagenary Table for the
odd minutes, it gives twenty-fix degrees thirty•otle minutes of Libra for
the cufp of the twelfth hOufc. Then, for the firft houfe or afcendant,
I add to the-above 214 thirty degrees more, which make 244, and this
fum I feek in the above table under the pole or latitude of birth, which
is fifty-three degrees; I turn to the table of obHque afcenfions for fifty-
three degrees, which I find in the column under Scorpio, and even with
it in the fidl column of degrees I find 14, which fl1ews that fourteen
degrees of Scorpio are on the cufp of the afcendant. l then bring down
the above 244, adding thirty degrees more for the fecond houfe, and thefe
make 274; I then refer to the above table of poles pofition for lat. 53,
and even with it in the column under fecond houfe I find 42. 26.-I re-
ject the 26 as before, and refer to the tables of oblique afcenfions for
forty-two degrees of latitude, where I feek No. 274, and-find it in the
column under Sagittarius; and even with it in the firft column of de-
grees I find 14, which directs fourteen degrees of Sagittarius to be placed
on the cufp of the fecond houfe. Then for the·third houfe I add thirty
degrees more to the above t 274, which makes together 304; I then refer
for the pole's pofition of the third hou(e in the above table, and find·even
with lat. 53 the number 24. 42; but, as thcfe minures exceed thirty, I
1'Cfer to the table of oblique afcenftons for twenty-five degrees, where I
_feek 304, which I fin-d in the column onder Capricorn, and even with it,
in the tirft column of degrees, I find 21; but, by equating as before for
the odd minutes in the SexagenaryTables, !"-find that twenty-one degrees
twenty-nine minutes of Capricorn are upon the cufp of the thir~ hoofe.
Thus the fix oriental--howes are furnithed with the ·proper degrees ofeach
iign rifing upon them at the time require~, and ftand thu-s: -
Deg. Min.
On the cufp of the 1oth houfe
• 2 0
ltth houfc A
3 43
12th houfe A 26 3[
Afcendant, or I ft houfe "1. 14 0
2d houfe .t 14 0
ad houfe - ~ 21 29
t Nott-, that as often as thefe additions of 30 far each progremve fign exceed 36o, which is the
\\'hole numb~r of d~grees in the circle of ~e Zodiac, then the circle of 36o mtift be fubtraeled,
_
and tbe rcmamdcr will be the number requ1red of the tables ofoblique afceiUions.
1 And
,
Digitized by Coogle
· 0 F AS T ll 0 L 0 .·o ·Y.
· Aad by tbcfe, the fix occidental houfca arc to·bc furnHbed ia the fame
manocr, a& before direa~d, with tbe oppofitc ugns s but far tho fake of
plainnefs l ~ill ~gain ftate them.
r:l fM 2 0
¥ 3 43
·oppofitc ia ¥ 26 31
~r
ts 14 0
u 14 0
".1'-J a 21 29
In· this plain, eafy, and obvious, manner, may the fituation of the
be.tvens be fouDd for any latitude whatever. But, to make it mons eafy,
it is nec~ilary to explain what we mean by the poles pofitions, and the
equations of time. If we imagine twelve great circles, one of which ia
the meridian of any given place, to interfea each other in the two poles
of the earth, and to cut the equator in every fifteenth degree, they will be
divided by the poles into twenty·four femicircles, which divide the equator
into twenty·four equal parts; and as the earth turns on iu axis, the pl~nes
of tbefe femicircles come fucceffively after one another every hour to the
fun. And, as in an hour of time there is a revolution of fifteen degrees
of the eqaator, in a minute of time there will be a revolution of fifteen
minutes of the equator, and in a fecond of time a revolution of fifteen
feconds. Thus, to every place fifteen degrees eaftward from any given
meridian, it is noon an hour fooner than on that meridian, bccaufe their
meridian comes to the Sun -an hour fooner. And to all places fifteen de-
grees weftward, it is hour later, becaufe their meridian comes an hour
later to the Sun ; and fo on, every fifteen degrees of motion caufing an
hour•s difference of time. Therefore they, who have noon an hour later
than we, have their .meridiaA, that is, their Jongitude, fifteeft degree&
weftward from as ; and they1 who have noon aa hour fooner than we,
have their meridian or longitude fifteen degrees ·eaftward from ours ; and
fo, for every hour's difference of time, fifteen degrees difference of longi-
tude. And, as we lllall have.freq11ent occafion to equate the motions of
the equator with the hours and minutes of time, I hcre.fubjoin two table&
for that purpofe.
TABLES
Digitized by Coogle
AN ·1 L L u·s T RAT I 0 N
TABLES for converting mean folar Time into Degrees apd Parts of the
terrefiial Equat<;>r J and aHo for converting Degrees and Parts of the
Equator into folar Time.
If
Digitized byGoogle
. 0 F A S T It 0 L 0 o·Y.
If the reader in Table I. reckons the columns marked w'lth afteri11u
to be minutes of time, the other columns .give the equatoreal parts or
motion in degrees and minutes; if he reckons the afterilk. columns to be
{econds, the others give the motion in minutes and fcconds of the equa-
tor; if thirds, in feconds and thirds. And if in Table II. he reckons the
afteriik columns to be degrees of motion, the others give the time
anfwering thereto in hours and minutes; if minutes of motion, the time
is minutes and feconds; if feconds of motion, the correfponding time is
given in feconds and thirds. An example in each cafe will make the
whole ·very plain.
EXAMPLE I.
In 10 hours IS minutes. 24 fcconds 20 ·thirds, ~- How much of the
Equator revolves through the Meridian?
Deg. M. s.
Hours 10
- 150 0 0
Minutes IS - 3 45 0
Seconds 24 - 0 .6 0
Thirds 20 • 0 0 5
Anfwer 153 SI s
EXAMPLE II•.
In what time wil1153 degrees 51 minutes 5 feconds
revolve through the Meridian ?
o( the. Equator
H. M. s. T•
.Degrees{1so· .. 10 0 0· 0
. 3 - 0 12 0 0
Mmutes 51 0 3 24- 0
Seconds 5 - 0 0 0 .20
Anfwer 10 15 24. .20
For the convenience .of ·pcrfons. born in any part of England, who
may want to calculate their own nativity, I have added the following
table of the latitude and .longitude of the moft confiderable towns in
·the kingdom, which willlikewife· anfwcr for any other places of birth
that happen near them.
No. to. . 3 B ,. A TABLE
oigitizedb~Google ·
208 A N I L L U S T R A T·I 0 N
A T A_BLE .of the LATITUDE and ·LoNGITUDE ·of the principal
CITIES and TowNs in ENGLAND.
Long Lat. 1 Long., Lat.
Reading, Berkihire 22 30 51 23 Newcafile, Northumberland 21 sr H 58
Bedford, .Bedfordfhire · · ~ 22 ss 52 8 Nottingham, Nottingham!hire ,z2 14'p 57
Buckingham, BuckingbanUhire 2z. 57 sr 59. Oxford, 01'fordfuire '2z His1 -46
Cambri<lge, Cambridgethirc ~3 32 ~2 13 Oakham, Rutlandiliire 22 4oj52 -1-o
Ely, Cambrid_gefhir~ s3 40 sz 25: Shrewfbury, Shroplhirc 20 36 52 45
Chefier, Cbefhire · zo 21 53 14! Hrifrol, Somerfetiliire 1
•9 4rls' 27
I.auncefion, Cornwall 18 41 so 431 Bath, Somerfetlhire 2o ss1
sr 2z
Carlifle, Cumberland zo 36 54 57' 'Veils, Somerfetiliire zo 39·5' 1:&
Derby, Derbyfhire 21 H!sz · 571 Litchfieldt Staffordihire zt z91sz u
beter, Devonfhirc 19 38 so 42 lpfwich, ~ulfolk 24 42152 10
Crookhcrn, Somerfetfhire Zl 9l5o 4; Guildford, Surrey 2 z 54 Sr 12
Dorchefier, Dorfet1hire zo +7 so 40 Chichefrer, Sulfex 22 4o'so 47
Durham, Durham ~ o 54 46 Coventry-, W arwicklhire zf H'sz 27
Colchefrtr, Elfex 2<f. 25 S' 59 Kendal, Wefimorland zo 4'!IS+ u
Glouc~Gloucefterfhire Zl 7 s• sz Salifbury, Wilt!hire Zl z8 51 3
Winche Hamp(hjre zz 4 s1 z Worcefter, W orccfrerlhire 2 1 8 sz 13
Hertford, crtfordfhirc 23 zz s1 so York, Yorkfhire u z~·SJ 57
Hereford, HereforcUhire zo 3&;5s s Beaumarais, Anglefea 19 8 n 24
Huntipgdon, H~gdoalhirc '23 rz·sa ar Brecknock, Brecknocklbire 19 s6 51 59
Canterbury Keftt"' 24 4~5 1 18 Carmarthen, Carmarthenlbire 18 s )I ss
Rochdtcr, Kent Z4 7 Sl 24 Bangor, Carnarvonlbire 19 5S3 21
Lancafier, Lancaibire ao 3 54 6 'Cardigan, Cardiganiliire 18 34 S2 19
Leicefier, Leicefterfhire za 14l5z · 39 Denbigh, Denbighlbire 19 51 3 14
Lincoln, Linc:olnlhire u 5~U I St. Afaph, Flintfhire 19 +9 53 u
LONDON . 13 a6 s• 32 Llandaff, Glamorganfhire zO. a s• 32
Monmou.th, Monmouthfhirc zo 30 sr s• Montgomery, Montgomerylhire zo to 51. 37
Portfmouth, Hamplhire 2z z6 so so St. David's, Pembrokefhirc 17 s6 s• S9
Norwich, NorfoHc 24 4S ss Radnor, Radnorfhire zo 10 z so
Pererborouc.h, Northamptonfhire 23 7 sz .
Thus by proper attention to the rules and directions preceding, may..
any perfon, though of {mall abilities, ered: the horofcope and introduce
the figns, planets, and ftars, therein, at any given time required. This
is indifputably a confiderable advancement in the practical part of the
Science of Aftrology s though it muft be owned, that the mere know-
ledge of thus defcribing and arranging the planets in the horofcope, with-
out we add unto it the ability of defining, from fome certain and expe-
rienced rules, the meaning, e1fet.\s, and infiqences, of them, under what-
ever afpeds or fituations they ~flY be found, can be of but little or no
advantage. To make this apparent, let me but a.& the reader to turn to
the foregoing figure of the heavens, ere~ed for the 1 1 th of June
1784, and.,defcribe the natural meaning and indications of the figns and
planets we have taught, him to place therein ? A compliance with this
he finds impoffible, not having either by theory or practice attained to
them. As a key to this important acquifition, I lhall now Jay down·
fome experienced rules and aphorifms, which iliould be attentively-con-
1idered, and thoroughly underftood, before any further advances are made
in the ftudy. I iliall therefore begin with the following general Axioms.
1 I. That
,
Digitized by C:oogle
-o.F AS T R ·o L 0 o-v.
I. That enry 6gn, planet, and fixed ftar, bath a fpecific and particu-
lar dftB: 'in one houfe, or part of the heavens, difFerent from what they
·have in another.
II. That the Sun by himfclf in any houfe ef. a figure hath one eft"ea.
·the Moon another, Saturn another, Jupiter another, and fo on through
the whole. And that this holds good alfo in refped to the figns and
·fixed ftan.
Ill. Th-at, as a planet bath one effet't in himfclf, fo hath he another
·when joined in conjunction with another planet.; and by a fcxtile, quar-
tile, trine, and oppofition. ·
IV. That the quartile and oppofition of Saturn and Mars have oaie e£-
fct't; and the quartile and oppofition of Jupiter and Venus another.
V. That a planet hath one fpecial or fpecific eff'ed: when lord .of th.e-
firft houfc or afcendant ; another when lord of the fecond houfe; ano•
ther when lord of the third houfe; and, when lord of the fourth, -
ftill
another; and fo on through all the twelve boufes of heaven.
VI. That whatever-point of the heavens retains the San as figpi6cator
in any nativity retains a folar force and influence in refpcd to that native
·as long as he lives. The fame rule extends to the Moon, and to Sa-
.turn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus~ &c. wherefore the horofcope or afccndant
. in every geniture hath and doth contain a radical iniuence over the na-
.tive's life; the' mid-heaven over his at'tions and occupation; and each of
the other houfes over thofe particular events and viciffitudcs to which
they refped:ively appertain.
VII. 'That the fame poil)t in the heavens, which in one nativity is the
place of the Sun, may in another nativity be the place of Sat-urn, J upi-
. ter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, or the Moon. .
VIII. That every agent, acting by itfelf, acl:s only according to its own
. peculiar form and virtue. ·
IX·. That every patient fufFers according to its own proper nature; ·and
that whatever is received is received only in proportion to the capacity of
the receiver.
X. That ~he fame, always exifting, muft a!ways work the fame effect
in or upon lhc fame {&&bj~. Thefc being premifed, we fuall confider
· The
oigiti~ed by Coogle
•
- /
AN lL L.u ·s T 1l AT 1.0 N.
The Etreas of each PLANET in each of the t'WELVE HOUSES.
SATURN in the firft houfe. or afceridant, lhews melancholy, wJth maey
forrows; if near the afcendant, iliort life; if at a diftance, innumerable
troubles; in the fecond, deftroys the fuhftance; iri the third; lia.tred be-
tween.brethren, and danger and 1ofs.in journcym~; i~ t~ fourth,.death·
of father and mother before the nat1.VC. lofs of 1nhentance and fr1ends;
in the fifth, barrennefs, death of children, or difobedient ones if living;
in the fixth, much ficknefs, ·croffes by fervants, and lo1fes by cattle; in
1he feventh, an ungovernable ·wife, fuort and wretched life, with ·many
-public enemies; in the eigh~h, a violent death and lofs of ·legacies; ift
the.ninth, many loffes by fea; in the tenth,. diilionour, imprifonmeat,
lhort life to the parents, death by fentence of a judge; in the eleventh,
·dcfpair, falfe friends, death of children; in the twelfth, :foR'ow, trou~
ble, ·imprifonment, and.per(ecution, by private enemies•.- Thcfe.are the
common effeCts of Saturn, when fignificator, and weak or me~qly dig-
nified. · · · · .
.
JuPITER in the firft gives a good, happy, and long, life, .jufl: and ho-
neA: ; in the fecond, profufion of: riches; .in the third~ .friendaup of
brethren, and fortunate journeys ; in the fourth, lands and inheritances,.
:with·an :tlonourable life -and·end; in the fifth,. many children.obcdient
· ·and.viruaous; in the fixth, ·health ·aDd faithful fervants, profit.by deali-
.jog in t.attlc; in 'the:feventb, ·an honourable marriage, a good :wife, m
·bond}, wife, .difcreet, ·virtuous, woman; .in the eighth, a·natural deatb11
long life, Jegacie&J in'the ninth, a true Chriftian, ecclefiaftical prefer-
.ment, profitable fea-voyages·; in the.tenth, preferment, great and dura-
ble honours, and riches by trading; in the .eleventh, enc~e of richet,
faithful and great friends, the fulfulling of all his defires; in the twelfth.
profit by cattle, vitl:ory over private enemies: this if he be ftrong J if
~ak, the good will be much •bated. ·
. MARS in the firft houfe denotes. tbortnefa oflife, quarrelfomenefs, fears
in the head or face; in the fecond, poverty, want, and ·many troubles;
.in the third, evil b~cthren, danger in tra\lelling, atheift, -an ~l!godly
perfon ; in the fourth, thort life to th~ father, ftrife between -him aDd
the native, deftruetion to his inheritance• in the fifth, wicked children,
and of thort life, ·or fickly J .in the fixth, fevers, bad fervants, toft of .
cattle; in the foventh, qua.-rels, law.fuits, p11blic enemies, an -evil wife,
ficknefs, a follower of lewd women ; in the eighth, a.violent -deadt.
]ofs of fubftance, poverty; in the ninth, changing of religion, lofs at
fea by robbers, ·an·atbeift; ·in the •tenth, unfortunate honour, troables
from magiftratcs, fic-knefs to the -RlOther, ·martial·preferment; ·in) the
eleventh,
Digitized ~YCoogle
,
.() F .t. S T R. 0 L 0 G Y. . .2-u
!JMI~,, ~1£- .fMo4f, l.Q(a.Qf fubtlan.ce. lR Jb~ twolf~b, imprifonment_
J9!(i ~y f~r.yar)J~ MJd .~att~, ma.oy pt~VW$ ~(J)j~ J this if M-ars bc·weik
ftll_
d,•ittP.4 • ;rtlro,g, d1~(e ~vils i\b#o, -and {Q~timcs _
the ean~arf
~ ~' plac~. - . .- .. , . . ·· · · ·· . · · ·
.S-~1 in ~t~e fi.r!l giv~s h~nq~r! ~lo_~Y! ~~~ I<:>J?g. lif~... Ia th~ _fe~.ond:
~ flow of rJch.es conti~ually_, bot a .~o~_fump~_to.~ pf~~~ I~ t~-~ ~.htrd,, g9~~
~retJlren ~nd Jo.urneys! a ft!clde: tor b1s r~h,10n. }n·F~e fou~rt~, ~dP-<?~tr
sn _
ege1 a ~t-eat an~ ·n~ble tl}her~tan~~· {n th~-~-~~, -Tew ~~~l~r~.~:.Y~.tr't.c~
is will be'~ood and ;Vtr.toous. In .th_
e ~x_tb, a_.~e;af~~ or ~'Ji.e _
m,thd. ~~
t~e f~ven.th, ~ goo~i ~·f~, Jho.nou:~~le ~~v~~fan~s,; .~nd ft.C:~.n,efs. ·In t~~
e~ghth, a go~ ..J'?rtJon Wlth a -~~~~· ~ang_~r ~-f _a v~t~ent ~~~t.b: t? ~~~~~
nil)t~, truT7 reh~tous,, ~cclefia£.l\cal p.refer_~~nt! ._
ga!n by t~-~ ~ea~ ~n ,t~~
te~th, greatne(s, h~nour,. glory, an_d·pow:er, fr~m .~tn~s, .P.nnc,e_
s,N,l~ n.~.­
ble women, much exceedulg the quah~ .ofthe nattve's btrth, the fh~nd-
ihip of t>er.~ons of hi~lt 'degt~~.. ~n- t~.e el_e~~-~t~.;·great _an~ .~ohl~' _fr_ile.~:~s~
and very fat~hful, !h<: fulfil~m~ ?f ~pe~s ~?Pe~s~ l.n .th~ fWe~(t~, .l?O.~~,r;.
ful adverfanes; thts .
.1f ftron_g j l.f ~~a~; -·~· tn~ny t~_mg~ ~~e ~ont~ary.
s l • •
Venus in the firft gives health, but inclines to the pleafure of women.
In the f~<rHP~. :ri~~es i~: ~~m!aQ<;c .by .WQPl«m's ~~s. ~n th~ lhird.
~eligious ~av,iqg J>r~tbre~, g09djg~AAfs. ~P :-'he fq"~'p, ~~ ~1\h~ritance,
~qp_o~rable ,ql~ ~&,~r .In :t~e ~fi£t~, JlAAOY ~~ldr,c;Q, ~~.ro~\r•.9h~di~f\t, ~pd
v· . :1!1 :tl1elftx~~-' ft.c~~efs~fr!?nt v~<?~;ln~in~, f~~thf~l.pl~afipgJ~r-
~ ifll~~\l~~ttl;. )n.th~ ft;ven~h, ~n iqcq\1\pflr/'t>ly,gopd _
and
_
, ;a ,h~}' _ny1r~~ge~ _;md ~r.\ng_ bu~ f~yv ~n~mies. :
ln .the
. ,goop 4P~ry. ~ith .a.- ~ife, .a.~~:Ural d,eatlt. lp.~~e ~~n,h, ~~~}e.
. ~ .. . _pre(~~' ~,r~l ,r.e,l~ipJ.ts ,w~n, ,pr~~t,hy (ea. lP .,h.e.t~nth,
• hono~r:an.d 1pr__efer~ep.t ~y,wp~Fn';s mqa~s, , ~fle . (av.o~.r,of.gr~t ~.Qmen.
,
In t~e ~~~v~tp,,hpno~~aqle:¥\d 1ai~hf9J .(qm_a~eJ\~~pq.s. :lP.th~,t}Yc;lfth,
J!ro~t :b~ g~~(c.~t~l~, ._f~~Jrpm. ~he P~"::qr. qf .p.r:i~.~tpJ:.D,e.Ql~c;s J _
this if .
nrong ; 1f weak the contrary.
,Mercwy. in_
,the :ttril: giycs ncible thoughts, good inventioll, graceful
elocution, a lover af..atts .and faiences. In tbe.fecorid~' profit by arts and
fci~~~s, ·P9Qks, -~~it}n$~• ..apd, ~e; li~C:· 1
In t~e. third, a m~tp~atici.an,
fw1f~ and _pro(pero~s ,J?Urn~ys, _a ~cppl~, o~e of an ~x;celJept inv~ntion,
c!af~y brethr~n,_.a .~or.al PC:f.~on. tin ~he .f.our$, :the getting ~f ,an inhe-
rJ~a~~e by ~Q.11nmg or ,c;leceJt. .In.the lift~, -ipgc;nious.cr~~l~r¢n. .I.n the
fi_
xth, .f~i~vi~.fr(~~,qfs•.;4i~ea[~~~9fih~_~rea~~ ,apd b-~~ip. \I.n_
~~-e (eyeqth,
a fomei?~er of quarrels, vexatto.us law~i'u1ts; a d1fcr.eet ,w1fe. J~ the
eighth, an augmentation of eftate by ·will's and legacies; ~eathll?y a ~on­
f~_[l}p~iCj)n. In the ninth, an incomparable artift, and one that under-
. No. 1 lc 3 C ~da
f
Digitized by Coogle
~rs A N I L L U·S T R A T I 0 N
ftands all fciences1 even the nloft ob(care and occult things• a 6dder-oat
of many new and excellent btventions~ In the tenth, liberal prreferment•
or a fecretary to fome great perlbn. In the eleventh, inconftant fritndt.
In the twelfth, his private enemies will be of little eft"eCl. This if M'tr.;.
c:ury be ftrong a!ld not affi.id:ed ; if weak, the good will much abate.
Luna in the.1idl: lhc:Ws the native will travel; 'will gain fuperiority
and rule _
oyer others ; the favour of princes and nobl.e · women, .and
great . advan'tages thereby. . ln the fecond. fometime·s:riches, fometime~
poverty, 'an ~nftable fortune. In the third, many journeys. In the
fourth, ~ain..bY-.trav~ll~ng• . In ·the fifth, . m~n)' chil~ren. ~ntbe fix~h.
difeafes of the brain, good fervants, and gain .by fmall ca'ttle. In the fe~
'veiltp, ari hon·o~rable marriage. In 'th~ eighth, danger of drowning, but
~therw~fe .a ~oo~_·a.~~ healthfut life. In. the ninth, tra~els beyond (ea,
tnconftancy 1n rehg1o~, acquaintance _
wuh ~rts and fc1ences. In the,
ten~h_, . ~rcat ho~our unto ,t~e .native, .pr'pfit by f~-!oyages; the .f~vour ~
fome nob}~ _woman. In the_
eleventh. the fr1end1lup of great la~hes, and
noble friends. In the t,welfth, the common people :will be .his private
enemies. This if Luna be ftrong and free from- affliCtion ; if weak and
afllided~ the contrary.
Tile Dragon's Head in the firft ihe\vs honefty. In ·the fecond, a'good
eftate.. In the third, fortunate jourrleys and ·honeft 'kindred. 'ln ·the
fourth, gain ~y 'lan~ and travels. . In the fifth, long life; happy and·vir-
tu·ous childt.en. In the fixth, health, good-fervants. arid profit in cattle.·
In the feve!lth, an honeft· and virtuous wife. In the eiglith, ·inany Iega•·
des, ·and a D'atural death. In the ninth, fincere piety, profperity at'fs.
In the tenth, ·durability of·honour. In the eleventh, evertafting and
faithful ftlends. In the ttvelfth,\ open enemies; ·but the pofition ·of the
Dragon•a Tall ~n the fame places .fignifics the·contrary. The pofition of
the·Part·of ·Fortune gives fabftanc~ from 'all thofe ihihgs fignified by
that houfe in·which it is·pofitcd, unlefs affi.id:etl by the prefcnce or beam•
of a malevolent planet.
/
cncral E.tfeaa of. the PLANETS in eaeh of ·the T W·B L -v~E
.s·1 G N S of the Z 0 D ,I AC.
S.AT'uRN in his own hou'fe ·lignifies wifdom, prudence, an'd ftability
of f.ortune. 'In t_he houfe of Jupiter, a juft man, a~d one that will
be ~1ch, and acqu~te honour. In the h'?ufes of Mars, ~ ftrong ,body,·a~d
funous. In the hou{es ofSo~, greatnefs and honou~. ·In the houfes of
Venus, a fecret lover of women. In the houfes ofMercury, one that is
ftudious of arts and fciences. ·In the houfe· of .t.una, ·· il'lfirmities of the
breaft ~rid lunss.
· Jupiter
Digitized by Coogle
· 0 F AS T R O·L 0 0 Y.
. Jupiter in the boufes of Saturn ficnifies avui~ an4 contoufnel8_
living always in fear ofpovercy. In his own houfes, infinite riches, ho-
aours, and dignities, and that among great perfons, and clergymen. Iq.
the hou{es of Mars, the native may rife to honour by war. In the
houfe of Sol, thews honopr, glory, and tr~afure from Jdpga at)d great
perfone. In the hoofes of Venus, rk:bcs by wQillen, or @ hol)ourable
wife. In the ho~s of Mercury, a rood rhetorician. ln the houfe of
Luaa, encreafe of fubftaacc beyond cxpettatiol), with bopour all4 ,e..
nown; for Cancer ia not oaly the ex!l1tatiQ41 of jupiter, .but alfo alfo a car-
dinal fign,. and the northern tropic. ·
Mars in the houfes of Saturn ·
lhews a lofty and magnanimous lpirit.,
and wif~. In the houfes of Jupiter, it filews the acquaintance of kings,
princes, and noblemen. .In his -
e>wn houfcr.. a great aod _
ingen.iout-wit, a
mathematician. In the hollfe of So~ foreocfs ·of the eyes, danger of a
violent death. In tbe.ho~s of Veou~ luxuriou~cfa,- a boa{\er, giv~n to
faUhood, and a deluder of·w.omen. In the houfcs of Mercury, one in-
genious .in arts ·and foicnces. but .coveto.us, knavifh, and deceitful. In
the houfe of Luna, a wavering, ·furious, raih, mao, one:tbat may arrive to
honour, but will precipitate himfelf therefrom afterwards.
Sol in the houfes of Saturn 1hews a dejeaed forlorn man. In th.e hQu(es
of Jupiter, one that lhall attain honour and glory in the world, and ·be a.
companion of princes. In the hoafes of Mars, a great and eminent man.
a commander, captain, ol' general of a army l a fubtlc, crafty, politic,
ftatefman. In his own houfe, one that may attain th_e·height of lionour,
glory and renown, quod.capax, according to the qnality ofhis biJ:"th. In
the houfes ofVenus, one that will rife or fall by the means of women. In
the·houfes of 'Mercury, _a good engineer, a foldier, and mathematician. In
the houfe of Luna, honour by difFerent women, but·fuch as·he afterwards
1hall receive prejudice from. ·
--venua in the·hotifes of Saturn ·fignines hopes of honour and frien·ds,
many children,- and old ag~. In the houfes C)f Jupiter, 1hort journeys,
ficknefs, imprifonment or death. :In the boufes -of ·Mars, private and .
public- enemies, and manyjourneys; as alfo a' lover ofdUferentwomen. In
the houfes of Sol, a fincere lover of his friend and a lover of his children.
In·her own boufes, a healthful long-lived perfon, juft and religious• .In
the' boufes of Mercury, 'one covetous, but fickly, religious, yet an enemy
to himfelf. In the houfc 'of Luna, a traveller, and one that will arrive to
great honour and preferment.
Digitized by Coogle
.
2'l~ A N .. t· L L U·S T ll A T I 0 N
~ercory in tpe healcs ~f ·Satvrn. tbewt honour ·&ftlft traveUintg by (ea,
with mucb ·p1eafare, but ·fielmefs w-ithal. .Jn tthe h~u(es ·~f Ju.piter,
1:mds, :inheritanees, an'honourable wife, ana good fr~nds. lc '*boufCll
of:Mars, -private·enemiesJ ·ficknefs, •many joor.n6)'~ :and a 1oog tife. In
the -.boufes .of Sdl, lanas and 1nheritaoees,i ret .fubjcef. to imprit'onmaa~
and privat-e enemies... 1·n the houfes of Veous, muob woalth and riches,
travelling ~by fea, one -religions, .wjth fo.me fic~nefs. Ia ·his own hou!os,
wit and ingenuity, kn<>Wledge of;arts 1ln.d .fciences, honotH' and reQow.n•
and a lover of children. . In the 1
houfc of L"na, -many good .friends. and
many journeys by land. ·
. Luna·in 1be houm ofSaturn lignifies one religious, 1Hidhaving many
ailverlaries, as .alfo fwe~cyes. ln the .boufesrof jupiter, .a .fickly body,
but•one\that:1hall dtain ·honour, .glory, 1'enown, and;tbe favours 9f greac
men. ·In ·the •houfe8 of ·Mars, 1l lover of faiiends 2nd children. In the
houfe,of Sol, ·ODC·that.Blall be~rf rich through •his.own induftry. In
the houfo.s of Vsnus, a great ·lovor of children, and one that ili.all have
IJlQny .friends. In ·thD.houfca of Mercury, inberitanoes, ·lands,:.aod.pl!ivat'
enemies. "
.Jn her own houfe, :happincfs.and ·long·life.
General Eft"eas from the PosiTION of the LORDS of the HOUSES•
.The lord of the.afcendant .in the .a{cendant thew:s a (Qrtqp~~.e ~n~
~PJ?Y life, and one .that ·fuail .ovcr.com.e all ~is enemies. .In .the .fe.~ond,.
riches ~nd . wealth by .his ·?Wn.~uftry. In th.e third_. :Pl~~jo"rp~ys.
In .the :fourth, lands .and mhentanc~. In th~ fiftQ, ch•ldr~n, .ilQ~ oQe
given. to pleafure. · Jn the.lixth, .fi.cknc:{l!. 1P.thctf~_'{ent~, pqbticadver-
farie&, the .man will he.an ene113y.to.hitnfelf. .In th~_c;iifith, leg.ac_if;~.
In the ninth,.one~reljgious,Jc,rned,..and ;~_trav,~Uer into.foroig·Jl csn:Jpt~;i~~·
In. the tenth, . hono.ur,;.prefermcn~,. a~d:fayoqr o~pdnces•.ln:tb~ ~l.~ven~~...
fnends. In the tweltth, danger of 1mpnfonmen~. · .
The lord of.theJecond .in the fecond .im,ports gr~~t~w~tb; .ln-~e
third, wealth.~y .brethten.and travelli~g. In.theJQurtl~, ~y t~. fa~h.e~.
In the fift,q. by,_gaming. In tbe·fi.:uh, we~hh: .~y.slealiqgJri . c.~ttle. Jn
the feventh, _
.by.marri~e..and wom~kijicJ. .In the ei_Blltq, ;b.yJ.~g~c~,s.~
In. the ninth, \iy the. cbur.cb, >
arts and (cienc.
es, religion, ~a~ t)le.Ka. lJl
the tenth by bonoqr, preferment, .trad~. m~r~h~ndife. :In the.~leventq,
by friends.· In.the..twe1ft~. by -
gJ;"eat.(;a~de. .I.n the,q.fc.eAdaiJt, by binA,
or"good fortune. . · ·. . - . · · . .
The lord of the third in the third 1hews dFetiionate· brethren,
good journeys. In the fourth, gain by travelling. In the fifth, plea-
. fu~
-., oigi~ized by Coogle
0 F A S T . R 0 L 0 G Y. 215
fure in travelling. In the fixth, ficknefs in travelling, In the feventh,
thieves and robbers, and fometimes the native meets with a wife. In
the eighth, death in travelling. In the ninth, religious journeys. In
the tenth, for preferment, trade, and the like. In the eleventh, for
fiudy and improvement. In the twelfth, imprifonment in travelling.
In the afcendant, .for pleafure, .and in purfuit of ufeful difcoveries. In
the. fecond, for profit, wealth, and riches.
The lord of the fourth in the fourth, forelhews a good eftate or inhe.
ritance, a father of long life. In the fifth, that the efrate fuall go to tho
native's children. In the fixth, that an efl:ate may be acquired by phyfic. ·
In the {eventh, tha.t he may have an eftate with a wife.. In the eighth,
by'fome gift, legacy, or wife's portion. In the ninth, by merchandize,
by arts and fciences, or by the church. In the tenth, by fome office,
.dignity, or preferment. In the eleventh, by means of a friend. In the
twelfth, by dealing in great cattle. In the afcenaant; by inheritance.
In the fecond, by purchafe. In the third, by travelling, or by the
death of brethren.
The lord of the fifth in the fifth, indicates {hong, lively, and vir•
tuous., children. In the fixth, that his children iliall be indull:rious to
gain wealth,· and it may be by his fervants. In the feventh, that they
will travel, and that the native and they will difagree. In the eighth,
that they lhall poffefs the mother's dowry. In the ninth, that they ihall
be given to pleafure, and go to fea for th~ father. ·In the tenth, that
they lhall be fickly, and follow the father's'trade. In the eleventh, that
they fuall have many public adverfaries, and prove enemies to themfelves.
In the twelfth, that they lhall have many legacies, yet prove enemies to
their parents. In the afcendant, they will prove religious, and learntd,
and love their parents. In the fecond, they will prove honourable, and
poffefs the native's fubll:ance. In the third, that ~hey -fuall have many
friends, and fuch as will be of their own kindred. In the fourth, that
they will have many private enemies.
The lord of the fixtb- in the fixth, forefuews ficknefs, yet juft fer..
v.ants. In the feventh, ficknefs by women, and quarrellipg. In_the
eighth, danger of a violent death, and dangerous ficknefs. In the ninth,
.ficknefs.at fea. In the tenth, ficknefs from hard labour and employment
in Jome trade. In the eleventh, by lofs of fomc friend, or frufl:ration
of his expeCtations. ·In the twelfth, by vexation of private C:nemie£.
In the afcendant, by irregularity .of life. In the {econd, by lois of fome
eftate. In the third, by reafon of fome journey. In the fourth, by lofs
No. 11. 3D of
Digitized by Coogle
216 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
of inheritance or difappointment in trade. In the fifth, from vexatious
children and Joofenefs of life.
The lord of the feventh in the feventh, thews ficknefs or aeath to the
native; yet a good wife. In the eighth, danger of lofing the wife's for-
tune. In the ninth, the will be a firanger to· him, and a traveller. In the
tenth, lhe will be honourable, and poffefs a good inheritance. In the
eleventh, (be will be an entire lover of him and of his children. In the
twelfth, lhe will be his private enemy. In the afcendant, lhe will be a
very great lover of her hufuand. In the fecond, 01e will be the aug-
mentation of his ell:ate. In the third, lhe will be a lover of her huf-
band's kindred, a.nd defire to go beyond fea. In the fourth, 1he will be
very honourable, and the native lhall have land by her. In the fifth, a
lover of .the native's children~ In the fixth, the will be a great affliction
to the ·native and herft:lf.
The lord of the eighth in the eighth, thews the native iliall die a na-
tural death, and that he lhall have a rich wife. In the ninth, he will
be in danger of drowning. In the tenth, his death may .be by fentence
of the judge. In the eleventh, by the confpiracy of fame pretended
friend. In the twelfth, _by confpiracy of a private enemy. In the af-
cendant, by 'the native's own irregularity. In the fecond, by means of
fome moneys or goods. In the third, either by the confpiracy of fome
brother, kinfman, neighbour, or thief. ln 'the fourth, by means of
the lofs of an efiate, or fame grief. In the fifth, by drunkennefs and de...
ba~~hery. In the fixth, by ficknefs. In the feventh, by a public adver-
ary, or eminent grief.
f
The lord of the ninth in the ninth, thews good fea-voyages, k~ow­
ledge of arts and fciences, a religious perfon. In the tenth, that reli-
gion will be profitable and honourable, and the native lhall be famous
for his learning, In the eleventh, church dignity, and merchandize, by
means of a friend. In the twelfth, church lands, and that the native
will have clergymen for his enemies. In the afcendant, makes the na-
tive truly religious and learned; .and a merchant. In the fecond, riches
by -fea, arts, fciences, and the church. 'In the third, a fetlarian. In
the fourth, gain by the church. In the fifth, one of a loofe religion.
In the fixtb, honourable church p,referment; and yet that the native
may be a flave in his religion. • In the feventh, ·an enemy to the church.
Iu the eighth, death. or perfecution fer his religion.
The lord of the t~nth in the tenth, great honour, glory, and renown.
In the eleventh, by means of a friend. In the twelfth, through an
enemy.
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
enemy. In the afcendant, by the ~ative's own indullry. In the fe-
cond, by means of his money. In the third, by a brother, kinfman, or
neighbour, or by travel. In -the fourth, by his father. In the fifth, by
a wife. In the eighth, by a wife's fortune ; it may alfo lignify a vio-
lent death. In the ninth, by religion, arts, fciences., and navigation•
•
The lord of the. eleventh in the eleventh, denotes great friends. In the ·
twelfth, private friends. In the afcendant, friends indeed to the native. ·
·In the fecond, fuch as {hall augment the native's fortune. In the third,
fuch as are of his kindred or neighbours, or as he ihall find in travelling.
· In the fourth, his father. In the fifth, fome friends of his wife. In
the fixth, his fervants. In the feventh, his wife. In the eighth, fome
brother's fervant. In the ninth, a clergyman, merchant, or lover of arts.
In the tenth, kings, princes, nobles, or great perfons.
The lord of the twelfth in the twelfth, denotes fl:rong and powerful
private enemies. In the afcendant, fuch as are among his own family
or houa1old. In the fecond, fome perfon envying his fituation or eftate.
In the third, kindred and neighbours. In the fourth, his father. ln the
fifth, his children. · In the fixth, his fervants. In the feventh, his wife.
In the eighth, fome diflant relation. . In the ninth, fome merchant, fo.
reign dealer, or dignitary in the church. In the tenth, kings, princes,
or men in power. In the t-welfft,, fome particular reputed friend.
. .Ll;l,1/'(rlt/j'l.
G E N E R A L E F F E C T S produced by the A S P E C T S.
Of the C 0 N J-U N C T I 0 N.
The conjunRion of Saturn and Jupiter ihews inheritances of houfes
and lands, poffeffions, and many worldly profits arifing from cultivating
t~e earth and tillage, if Mars affiitt not, nor the evil beams of Sol. If
Jupiter is figni.ficator, the native is miftrufiful.
The conjunRion of Saturn and Mars lhews much evil, the nattve will
be affiiCted, and vexed, thall undergo many troubles, and go -through
great difficulties. If you would know the caufe of the good or evil, you
mufi confider the houfe in which the configuration happens, and what
houfe the · configurated planets are lords of, and accordingly you may
nearly fpeak to the particular matter or accident, be it good or evil ; for
things are much varied according to the diverfity of pofition and do-
minatio~ of the planets, by which you muft nece1farily vary thofe judg-
ments.
The
~igitized by Coogle
218 - A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
The conjunction .of Saturn and the Sun, iliews the lofs of inheritance.
danger of houfes being burnt, the.native likely to be cheated, to receive
much detriment, and, it may be, lofe all and become poor; except a
fortuf1ate planet be pofited in the fecond houfe.
The conjunction of Saturn and Venus iliews one libidinous, and that
he £hall marry a woman wholly of an oppofite temper and difpofition to
himfelf, get dilhonour among women-kind, be unhappy. in marriage.
and lead, by reafon of his wife, a very difconfolate life. If Venus be fig-
nificatrix, ilie is much a£Hiaed; but, if Saturn, then the conjunction is
beneficial ; and this is to be obferved in all fimilar cafes. ·
The conjunction o{ Saturn and Mercury thews craft, fubtilty, and
policy, that the native will dive into many fecret, deep, and occult, things,
find out myfieries, be covetous and. proud, mixed with a certain kind of
gravity. If Saturn be fignificator, the native has a good elocution; but,
·u Mercury, be has a great impediment in his fpeech. ·
'
The conjunction of Saturn and Luna iliews one poor and obfcure; i£
Saturn be fignificator, the man is changeable, feldom an hour in one
mind, often doing things, and then repenting of them again; but, if
Luna be fignificatrix, he is grave, cautious, malapert, over-wife and con-
ceited, .and for the moft part wilful in all things.
The conjunction of Jupiter and Mars, if Jupiter be fignificatar, makes
the native choleric, ha1y, angry, bold, proud, prefumptuous, and dar-
ing; gives him fome martial command, and glory and renown in war-
like undertakings; but, if Mars be fignificator, it makes him milder.
religious, good, j uft, gives him preferment in the law, or he becomes a
prieft, deacon, bilhop, or other dignitary in the church.
· The conjunction of Jupiter and Sol: if Jupiter be fignificator, he af.
flicts the native feverely, cads h~m into a deep melancholy or difpair,
feizes him with a fever or frenzy, brings the body to·a confumption, and
affiicts the eftate with confiderable lofs, even to his utter ruin and dc-
ftruEtion ; yet, when by direction Jupiter frees himfelf from Sol's
beams, thefe evils will ceafe; but, if Sol be fignificator, he fo debilitates
Jupiter, that the configuration can promife nothing; but it makes the
native religious.
•
The conjunction of Jupiter and Venus: if Jupiter be fignificator, the
native is fuperlatively happy (more efpecially if the configurations happen
in Pifces, the houfe of Jupiter, and ex~ltation of Venus); he increafes in
· wealth
'
\
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T 1l 0 L 0 G Y.
weak"h •nd (ubftanee, In honour and glory, in health ofbody, end tran-
quillity of mind, having in geoeraJ the love of woman-kind J but, if
Venus be tignincatrix, ·tbe oative·bas beauty, health. and riches, attaiftt
to great honour and renown, ia truly virtuous, pious, and re.ligiout,
and bas generally ecclefiaillcal or jurifprudential prefetment. Thit ia
one of the moft happy -configurations that can be. .
The conjunCtio~ of Jupit~r and Mercury, if Jupiter be fignificator,
makes the native virtuous, religious, Wife, of great knowledge, and of
good elocution, makes • general fcholar, ·•and gives· him the knowleC!ge
ofmoft arts and fciences ; he may prove to be trn: ambaaador of a prince,
or fueh-like; but, if Mercury be fign,ificator, the native is folid, ferious,
and grave, pious and religious, and probably may acquire a good eftate by
merchandize or fome ecclcfiaftical promotion.
~ .
The conjun€Hon of Jupiter and Luna: if Jupiter be fignificator, the
native proves a traveller, it may be beyond {ea; he is generally of a
chanpble and mutaWe mind, and, althou~h naturally of a very good hu-
mour aod condition, yet fometimes pett1th, froward. and p~evUh. 1£
Luna be figni6catrix, it sivcs great riches and treafur~s, according to the ·
native's capacity or birth. makes him prudent, wif~. religious, and ho-
riowable; 'ives him the acqYaiotance of great and worthy .men. clergy-
men, and fuch-like. and probably church preferment.
The conjunaion of Mars and Sol thews a bot and dry conftitu.tion,.
danger of thort life, and death by hecHe fevers, marafmos, or by fire
os J;glltnipg. If Mara be 6gnificator~ the n~ive bas the fa.vour of kiog&
and princ.es. and it may be their fr.owos too, to his v.tter undoing; bc-
ntay rife hafiily, ~ut ~rha.ps ~a ~ipice. If Sol be figni6¢ator, the
nuive proves valiant and wulike, attains folDC martial c:ommand or
prefet•at ; b'" ifhe~~ in\0 war he is .killed in .the battle, <lr at beft
cotnes off wo~, er with .tbe-loLi of a limt>. .
•
The c~u.aeti~n of Mar• Md VM~o~&: if Mus be ignifW*tor, tbena..
tive is given up to women, and retains the acquaintance of fuch as have
an ·infamous life and converfation; he is kind, gentle, and courteous,.
and, though fometimea bally, yet ofa good humour and difpofition, in..
femuch that his kindnefs is oftcntim~s his undoing; but. if Venus be
fignificatrix, ·the native is lufiful, Jafcivious, a fornicator, adulterer ;
given overto wicked and lewd courfes, ha!ty, raih, proud, inconfitferate,
qoarrdfomea and running him~lfinto man1 hazards, dangers, troubles,
and l<rlfes..
No. 11~ 3 B The
\
Digitized by Coogle
220 A N .. I L L U S T tt & T I 0 N
The conjunB:ioo of Mars and Mercury: if Ma~s be ligni&cator, he
makes the native pragmatical, talkative, a (matterc;r iq lear~ing, a bab-
bler, and deceiver, yet induftrious for t.hc prorpo,t-ion _
f)f .his own ends
and defigns; it gives nogreat prefer~ent, he may: be a knavilh apparator,
cheating petty-fogger, or pedantic pedagogue; but, if Mer~Qry be figni-
ficator, the native prov~s QQt; of harlh manners .~99 conYerft'tiqn, ofan ill
life, a thief, highwayman, felon, murderer,_traitor, &c.
_The conjunClion <?f Mars and ~u~a: if Ma_
rs·be fignifiC"ltor, the na-
tive is of evil manners and infamf?US converfation ; rifes to no great pre-
ferment; but, if it iliould fo chance that the fcale iliould turn, his rife
may b~ by means of fome great lady; but, if Luna be fignificatrix, ·the
native is bold, ralh, adventurous, quarrelfome, furious, given to cruelty
and bafe ac1ions,- may prove a thief, murderer, or traitor;. feldom lives·
long~ for this pofition fignifies a lhort life, and that the native may die a
violent death, by the means of .fire, iron, a fall, blow, wound, or by the
hands of the executioner. ·
The conjunction of Sol and Venus: if Sol be figni~cator, it makes ·
the manners of the native foft and eff'eminate, yet he is born to glory,
and to do and perform great aRions; he obtains the love of women, but
alfociates himfelf with fuch as are· bafe, obfcure, libidinous, infamous,
and much below his rank and quality. If Venus is fignificatrix, it thews
a lhort life, one aiming at glory, but not attaining it; the native is hec-
tic or confumptive, melancholy, meets with many cro.tfes, Io.tfes, and
vexatio~s, lives not out half his days. ·
The conjunction of Sol and Mercury: if Sol be fignificator, the na.
tive is adorned with wit, ingenuity, learning, arts, fciences, policy,
underftands languages, and the power of words ; and, bec:aufe Mercury
delights to be under the Sun-beams, not being there by hurt, as are the
other planeu, the native bas exc~llent elocution, and proves a good rhe-
torician and logician. If Mercury be fignificator, he bends all his wit,
craft,. and policy, for the accomplilhing of ·high matters, and·the at- _
taining of great things; he becomes the favourite of a king, prince, or
great man.
The conjunction of Sol and Luna: if Sol be fignificator, though he
generally gives a great and high fpirit, and aiming at magnificent things,
yet this configuration gives only mean and low acquaintance, and the fo-
ciety of the common people, makes the native mutable and changeable,
and his fortune as unftable. IfLuna be fignificatrix, the native iliall aim ·
at noble and gallant things, but not attain them s many cro1fes aiall bc-
fal him, and his life !hall be 1hort.
The
Digitized by Coogle
0 :F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 221
The conjuntHon of Venus and Mercury : if Venus be fignificatrix, it
gives a delicate beautiful body, adorned with wit, ingenuity, and elo-
quence, makes the native courteous and complaifant, furnilhes him with
variety of arts, and learning, and is a configuration of very good import J
if Venus be lady of the fecond, it giv~s a good augmentation .of fortLtne
through merchandize, or the ftudy of arts and fciences. If Mercury be
fignificator, it makes the native an orator, furnithes him with courtlhip,
{oft and effeminate words, makes him pleafant in all company, gives him
the fociety and love of women, and, if Venus be ftrong, of great ladies;
in a word, it I_Jlakcs him exceedingly happy. -
The conjunCtion of Venus and Luna, if Venus be fignificatrix, makes
the native mutable and changeable, a mere Proteus, yet with a deal of
pleafantnef~ and fatisfaclion to others; it makes him of many words, a
great promifer, but no performer; proud, lofty, conceited, and gives
him profit by the fea, and all lunar and moift commodities. If Luna
be fignifi~atrix, .the native is very effeminate and courtly, having a volu-
ble tongue, free language, and excellent difcourfe, inclined to the love of
women, which, if Venus be llrong, is onIy to fuch as are virtuous; de..
lights in mufic, dancing, and merry company, never thinking of Corrow,,
or laying any thing to heart. .
The co.njunction of Mercury and Luna, if Mercury be fignificator,
makes the native travel into foreign countries, defirous to fee new things. ·
fafuions, and places ; gives. him favour and efieem among the ladies, and
to be in great eftimation among the popularity, by tneans·of w~om he
rifes to a good fortune and to great profperity in the world. If Luna is
fignificatrix, it makes the native ingenious, and a lover of learning, feek-
ing after the knowledge of moll arts and fciences; chiefly the mathema-
tics, geography, cofmography, and navigation, by which he attains
credit and reputation; he delights in journex_s and embaffies, being of a
~utable and inconftant humour and difpofition. ·
Of the S E X T I L E and T R I N E•
•
The fextile and trine of Saturn and Jupiter, if Saturn be fignificator,
makes the native grave, fober, wife, religious, pious, and endows him
with riches and treafures of this life, gives him the favour and acquain..
tance of the rich and great, or the native becomes a merchant, and gains
confiderably by it. If Jupiter be fignificator, 'the native is more propenfe
to melancholy, is inclinable to dig and delight in the earth and follow
hutbandry ; fome eftate, inheritance, or houfcs, may fall to him ; and he
may be promoted to fame ecclefiaftical dignity for .his wouh, learning,
and virtue; however, Saturn fucws cowardice.
Tbe
Digitized by Coogle ""-
21t A N I L L u· S T 1\. A T I 0 N
The (eKtile or trine of Saturn and Mars: if Saturn M 6gni6cttor, .his
natural flownefs and warinefs turns into raJhne{& and boldnefe, (yet with
a kind of temerity s) he runa inta precipitate aetioas, and ft.range adven..
tures 1 it commonly gives .martial preferment. If Mars ia fignificator,
the ralhnefs and daringnefs of difpofition are much a.bat~d, and' the Dative
is guided by very confiderate and deliberate counfels • if lte proves reli-
gious, (as fuch feldom do,) he ii an abfolutc feaat'ian, followtng pertiu.
cioufly the fentimenta of his own mind: it thewa an cibte in land or
legacies.
The fextile or tdne of Saturn and th_e Sun: if Saturn .be fignificator,
the native has an aufiere countena~e. a ligbtith brown hair, large bones,
not very flethy, ftooping a little in hie going, he bas a fuow of ~erofity
and noblenefs in hts aaions, bllt paffionate and keking revenge, yet
with-out any great courage or valour if put to the trial ; he probably may
attain preferment at court. If Sol be fignificator, the man is mon::
corpulent, yet with a very decent body and a full round face; givCD to
boafting and oftentation, wilful and conceited, yet without aoy kind of
malice, fcarcely injuring any but himfclf, by his too much extrangaat
expence and prodigality. \), _
The fextilc o.r trine o f . and Venus: if Saturn be 6gnifica.tor,
the Dl\tive is comely, having brown hair, a delighte~ in womc:n•s compaoy,
walling his patrimony upon the female fex, fcarcely leaving any eftate'
behind for his fucce[ors, gi'vcm over to pleafure and volu.ptuoufnefs. If
Venu$ be fignificator, the native is modeft, ibamefaced, yet loving his
belly well, very affable and courteous, and in.clinable to few vicious ac-
tions ; gains by the dead, from ancient poople., and from ~be fruits and
profits of the earth ; be has a good repute and converfation, and fcarcely
marries till after thirty years of age,
The fextile or trine of Saturn and Mercury: if Saturn be fignilicator,
the.native is conceited, fuH of chimecas an.d whims, of plots and con-
trivances, yet not often with eff'eB, though carried on with. a grec;t
deal of ingenuity J he loves eurio.fities, and is ihwJious, fubtil, aud re-
fervcd. If Mer.cuty is fignib.catof, the native is peevHh. difc.onteo.lled.
and dejected in his own raio.d, has firaage fancies, and is v.ery wilful.
even fometimea to his .own ruin, yet aiven lo the ftwd.y of arts and !ci..
cncu. and finding out DWlY eurious iuvtlttions.
The fextile or trine of Saturn and Luna: if Saturn be .fi~nificator, the
natiYc is ·wilfuh though very tbangeable of clifpofition, (u.bJc&to jc:aloufy
and miftruft; if Saturn b.c well fortified, the oativ.c .bccomc:a popular
and
Digitized by Coogle
0 F. A S T R 0 L 0 G Y;·
aW .gaia! much wealth and eftimation bj the common. people ; ~ alCo
attains thp fa¥our of fome eminent lady, and becomes famous in. his ge-
neration. If Luna is fignificatrix, the native i.s cold by nature, and of ar1
ill compkxion. inclinable to fordid and mean aaioos, yet he is deliberate,
aod, if be. docs ill, he does. it with preconfideration; he is apt for invention,
bat very wilful in all things, concei~ed of liimfel£, fo that he thinks no-
thiD§ well·tlonc but what he docs himfclf~ ·
The {extile or trine of Jupiter and Mars : if Jupiter be figni6catbr,
it ihcws one of a free and noble difpofition, bold, valiant, and bonoura-~
\Jle. attempting and attaining brave and honourable exploits, generous to
bis friends, obligiag to hi& c:nemies, yet dcfiring and endeavouring to
rules bet. alfo refolute aud fabtle; if Mars is fignificator, the native is a
mao c.f a latgc foul, chcarful and merry, of a jovial difpofition, aaive, cou-
rageous, pious, and .a very juft man; ennobled with valour, vitlory, and
•irtuc, one of good fame,. and obtaining the favour and good-will of great
ud worthy perfons.
The fextile or trine of Jupiter and Sol.: if Jupiter be fignificator, it
1hews a ihong, tall, well-proportioned, body, of a freth ruddy com-
plexion, a noMe, genert>us, courageous, foul, :fnd. of a magnanimous
mind; oae attempting and amltieving ·Breat and honourable thiags ; ot
t.ccama the favowite of fome king, prince• or ~reat perfon, and rifes to
the top of pr-eferment. If Sol toe figniicatoc, the- native is born to bonouc.
arrd glory,~ and, fJIIod ~apiiX', arriYe&· to the hishea· of all wor~d.ly felici.
tie•; he is. a: man of great £pirit, pcrf«ma beneficent and. honourable
.ttiom J as Jupiter eodowrt him with a fund of trcafur~, fo the libe-ral
fpirit of Sol makes him watl:e it.b1 his too sreat genuofity. .
. .
The (extile or trine of Jupiter and Venus, if Jupiter be figniiica.tor-
gives a tall and complete perfon, of a pleafant, loving, courteous, difpo-
ition, kind to fhe female {ex,: of an exceeding good nature, and the pa-
tl'Oil of hofpitaaity J it is the afpea <>f ]ov~,: c~ncord,. a1reement, good
ilrtunc, and riches-;. the na~e ia preferred1 apd rifes to boaour.. If Ve-
DOS ~e figni6catrix, the- pcrfoo is C'Omdy and. k>vely. one scottoutly aif-
pcftd, aiming onl}t at things- braYe,- honourab~c,. vitrtuous,. and ~d ; it
ie· the: atpeth o£ V
·WtUe and.pie.ty,. of bQOour.·, peofermen:t; and vaff for-
Writs in the- worWI!; the native baa the acqua.intan~t of perfons of ahe
lrighe~ ccclcfiaftK:al order, and,. it may be, attains the like preferment
bimfcli. . .
The fe""ite or tr.ine!o£ Japi- ancl Mere01y·: if jupiter be:G.anificator.
it lliews a juft~ virtuous, good, man, ingenious, and of a very fubtlc ~it J
N'o.11. 3F it
Digitized by Coogle
~24 A N I L L' U S T R A T I 0 N
it is the afpea of ingenuity, eloquence, and learning; the native-is at.
fable, courteous, mild, and a general lover of learning, one who by hii
w<:>rth and virtue may be the fecretary or ambaffador to fome king or prince.
lf Mercury is fignificator, it thews one very ingenious, and whofe wit is
mix.ed with virtue and honefty ; of a deep underftanding, profound wif-
dom, found judgment, and fuccefsful in any enterprize; a perfon fit
to be the counfellor of a king, or manager of the a·ff.tirs of a kingdom or
commonwealth; generous, free fpirited, and perfectly trufty.
The fextile or trine of Jupiter ar.tl Luna: if Jupiter be fignificator, the
native is naturally good, Jufi, and virtuous, but of a very mutable mind,
changing his opinion with the leaft perfuafion J it is the afpea of popu.;
1arity and general applaufe, and he becomes famous in his generation,
and draws after him the love of the common people ; he is loquacious,
highly conceited of himfe)f, fortunate by water and women : if Luna
be fignificatrix, it Chews one of a generous, noble, juft, mind, aiming at
high and honourable things; he gains by the church and churchmen,
and is an exaCt obferver of juftice and truth; and a perfon who by his
good nature would oblige the whole world.
The fctxtile or trine of Mars and Sol ; if Mars be fignificator, the native
has a rifing fortune, proves great, famous, and eminent, in the world,
me~ts with preferment at court, or has the efpecial favour of fome king
or prince: it is the afpea of action and honour; he is witty, ingenious,
and trufty; faithful even to his adverfaries; of a nimble wit, quick fancy,
courteous, and friendly; hemayproveageneral or commander o(an army.
If Sol b~ fignificatrix, it is the afpeCt of valour and viaory ; th~ native is
of a high fpirit and courageous, attains military honour and preferment,
;loves warlike exercifes, appears a terror to his adverfaries, and rifes far
fuperior to his birth.
The fextile or trine of Mars and Venus: if Mars be lignificator, it ia·
the afpetl of liberty and love; if Mars be out of his dignities, the native
is vicious above meafure, loves gaming, wantonnefs, women, and all
-manner of lewdnefs and debauchery, he is ill-natured, unlefs among his.
own party, and waftes and fpends his fortune upon women; but, if Mar&
is in his dignities, it thews one witty, ingenious, a fearcher out of myfte-
Jies, and one who fuall gain a confiderab)e fortune in the world. If Ve-
nus is fignificatrix, it ia the afpect of pride, vanity, and vain-glory: the
native is comely, bold, rafu, adventurous, fearing nothing, aiming at
· great things, and promifing himfelf mountains, but perfetting little ;
and, if Venus is weak, the perfon is debauched., and guilty of many lewd
atlion~. . ·
The
oigitiz~d by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
The fextile or trine of Mars and Mercury: if Mars be fignificator, it
ie the afpctl of confidence and craft; the native has a pregnant fancy,
capable of any thing; prudent, fubtle, bold, very ingenious, eloquent,
and ftudious in moft arts and fciences, yc:t fomething hafty, and fubjeCt
to paffion, which being over, the man is good-humou:red again. IfMer-
cury is figni6cator, the native is valiant, courageous, ingenious, a lover ·
of military exercifes, phyfic, furgery, and chemiftry; and may probably
get a fortune by the fire, or dealing in martial commodities; the native
has generally a good opinion of himfelf.
The fextile or trine of Mars and Luna: if Mars be fignificator, it it
the afpea of loquacity and mutability; the native gets by the commolll
people, or by travel, often changing his ftation or place of dwdling; he:
is turbulent, furious, and ra!h, but as eafi.ly purfuaded again ro a compla-
cent humour. If Luna be fignificatrix, the native is paffionate, ambi~
tious of honour, afpiring to great things, ·and purfuing them even to a•
precipice; and, when attained, they feldom continue with him·; and the
reafon is, becaufe of the mutability and changeablenefs of his own na-
ture, mind, and difpofition, which beget a change of his fortunes..
. The fextile or trine ofSol and Venus : if Sol be fignificator, it is the
afpea of candour and geoerofity; .the native is exceedingly good-natured,.
ofan heroic difpofition, having nothing but gallantry in all hit atlioos r
he gets by women, and has the favour of fome rich lady, by whom he.
meets either with a good fortune or promotion ; he is witty, ingenious.-
and of an aCtive fancy. If Venus be fignificatrix, it is the afpea of g.rao·
· deur and magnificence,; the native meets with court preferment, or has
the favour of fome prince ; rifes to high honour and glory in the world,; .
of a good difpofition, yet a little pafiionate, foon angry, and as quickly
appeafed again; of a free, liberal, difpQfition, lofty, .and a little-given to
pride and vain-glory;. but in general a fociable, merry, good-humoured,.
pcrfon.
The fextile or trine of Sol and Mercury : if Sol be fignificato~, the na.. .
tive is proud, ambitious, conceitt::d, yet ·Very courteous, and without any:
.teeming refentment;. pa1fes over fmall affronts, left the taking notice of.
them lhauld be any prejudice to his grandeur ; he is nimble-witted,
loquacious, .and very good at invention. IfMercury be fignificator, the.
native feems to .rife in the world wholly by his own wit and ingenuity,..
and without doubt will attain to a degree of honour above that of hia ;
birth.and anceftors quality.
Digitized by Coogle
126 A N I L L U S T R ·A ,- I 0 N
. 'Tae Ce1tile Of trine of Sol and Luna : If' Sol ~ fignifi~at~>r, .it ia
the afp&Cl: of credit tl\d fam~. makes the native eminent in the world. ·
l>orn to great ~clions, and to perform extraordinary undertaking& aoa.ongfi:
•he eommon people 1 he is cried up for a god among the multitude; i£ '
be be a pri¢ft or a pbyf~eiaa, he has a vaft numbu of followers " he is
plea&nt, chcarful, and good~natured. If Luna is fignincatri:x, the na-
tive is J'l'oud• am-
bitious, coveting after honour and glory, aad generally
bora to eajoy a great moa(ure thereof, but ·very mutable in hi& r~lva..
and, if Luna be weak, he falls into dithonour again.
Tho fe¥tilc orVcnua and M.
erc:tuy : if Venus be figoificatrix, the auive
Mvery comely, wittf, ingenious, £ubtil, ud of a good nature, feld&l"b
JUilty of any -dHhonourable adioo, a good crat~, aad of aa afpiriog
faocy, yet fcldom bringing thiogs to perfeetioa.. If Mcrc~ry be fig-
oifi~ator, the native is of aft exceeding courtoous nature; amorotts, one
cielightiftg in women& company, by whom he meets either with for-
tunc or preferment J he is wife, prudent. juft, virtuoas, a lover of
learning, and cmbellilhcd with many excellent paras, both aataral aoe
acquired; b111.1, if Mercury is weak. and out of his dignities. the native
proves vicious inftead of virtuous.
Tbe fextile or trine of Venus and Luna : if Veaua be fignifiatrir, tlio
natin will certainly arrive to honour, and be: made great or rich, by
a.aat. of fome eminent lady J he alfo has the etlimation of $Be conmi011:
people<, and becomes very popttla.r; b1Z'C is one- of aD inc011ftaot. uafta:blc.
mind. by reafon of which he performs no great things; .he is a camdy
eo&agilflg per.fon, neat and genteel, and very apt to be taken with cc.oart..
1bip. If Luna be ugnific:atrix, the native is very effeminate and amGJtOIK,.
of'a gemde obliging difp~n:tion and temper, ~Re faber, jttfi:, and. having
the loYe of anoft women.that he c:&A-
verfC6 wt-th ; but, J..f Luna be weak.
aud otfacrwifc u.nfortuoate,._tiM naJive irndines to vice.
The fextile or trine of Mercury and Luna : if Mercury'be fignificator, .
the native is wittty and i•
ngenioua., a- lc:wer· of novctltie's and:all maAM'r of
new ii\ventiont· and fa-neies, and mutable· enel ohasgtaW. kJi. his mind,
refbi'IJtioi1, at\d in aU Ulldertakings·; a man pu'fe)f giwn: fGl fhCJ aiC
ofdittimullation s though a- pfeafane eompanien.. If i;UDQ be figDifia..
tri'a, the·nztiv.e·,divel! into artt- and1 fciences; if fu~'tltf, . crairy, covetoGi.,
a lt1.ero£ him!df, refervetf, and a·littfe ~'aneholy; if Luaa is-1boog,.
h~ maltet an exeellenr orator, a· good advocat~, and may be a·fecmary
to fome prince or nobleman; if Luna be weak, tie aarift i-s: a- CGMplcto
mafter of the art of deceiving.
Of
Digitized by Coogle
ft f _It s T R a ~ ~ q Yt
()f ~h~ ~V A l: T I ~ ~ and <> P r Q S I T I ~ 'tf.
TM qqa~tile or oppQtiti(?n of S~turn an~ J~piter: if Saturn be fig-
nific~or, i~ (hews trouble ~pd ve.xation; if t~e ~an be ~ fe8arian·, be' is
perfecuwd hy t~~ clergy, tprmente4, anc:l molefted ; if the conjunction
falls in the afcendant, twelfth, eleventh, tentb, or ninth, houfi:&, ·the mif-
chief fall& in. the fore part of life, and the native, thrpugh hi, own folly,,
Jftti:S .a ~~~t p~rt 9f_~U. fort~n~ or eft~te! If Jupiter is tig~~ficator, ~tis
the •fp~Ct of·~m=~14fiPg tr9uples ~nd '?ifedes. . The native is ~ c~ntinual
)pf~r. 11~• ~r~at Hoff~~' ~~ts wtth dtfgrace ;1nd con~empt, and, were·be
bprn tg A priQ~'s ~!la.~~' w~u1,4 be in dang~r of becomjng ~begg~r; the
n•tiv~ j§ qf a PP.<?r ~w fpi~i~, ~~ofs~. p~yifJl', ina.cti-ve, ~ull; mlfetable, and ·
.unfoJ:tt~QAte j)) JP!: w~~~~ .
· Tb~ qu_
artite or oppofition Qf Saturn and Mar~ : if Saturn ·
be 6g-nifica-
t9r, it rs ~e ar~a of c.:rueJty and murder i the ~ative -
ia bafe, trea-
' _c.Pe19?~-1 J>~rfid1.ous, envtqus, quatrel~, chc:Acnc, p~~.G,· fcocnfuJ;
un{octabl~, raih, ungrateful, and a very tli~natu-red pcrion, he bas good
ftore of wit, but it is only to do mifcbief with, and he him~lf meets .w;.th
_rp~y-.trpJfbJe~ .by war,; ~-f Mtrs.be ngnjf\cator, jt is the afpetl: of treafon
.and.:r~~Jlipn ,; Jh~ .n~~ive is ~i_if~i, .mdfncholy, (ubj_eei to m~ny linger-
~ AAP .ton.ti_n~in~ ~i.f~.a'fes, a_q~ ·wiH 'b~ in da1n~er pf an untimdy de_
ath
1p,Y ~•Jl.s, plp~s~ Jr.~a~h~_rY., Qr ,I?o.ifon _
; the na~~~e bas ~1'\ unha~py father,
J.n~.~ ,~.AAm ]\~ ~n p_
art .d~;1'1ves m.s ~urp\}'l~nt fp1rrt, wl)Ich ex-tremely burtt
lwt.b .h-l~felf ~u~d other~~ · · ·
. T.~~ -q-~~ttlp 9r op_pclfrtion of&tu.na antl the 8-t:tn : if S'"Ufn be b.gni-
-~~a~~_r, 1
_
t is the ·p._fpeEt of co.nter;npt.an~ infuny, it ~w.s .danF of a.vio-
l~QJ ·&ea.(~, an<l .it may 'be by the h~nd _
of Juftk:e ; ~he uati\Cc aims at ·high
·and "eat .t}\in~s, ·bu_
t a)ways· mi(fes his 1:~pectations, for ·his .v.cry' at-
. teinpt·s only are his ruin, both of: goods ·and <»\ate, anG may Joo1cti.met
coft his life. The native has a thew of boldnefs, couc.ag.e, .and .tev.enge.
_l>m ~s ,aJ~pr J~ h.ut -~ vapp~r. _I~ .th~ ~.~n be f~nificato~, it is the arpc::~
.Qf.tr~~op ~~P4 co~:~r_d_1ce; the ~attve IS 1nward:ly very fp1teful and mah-
~ ,cjou~, '{41(e ..¢v.~n- :to his _dear~ft friend, (lu~ying revenge.only -by ways oc-
. CJll,t',twlP .~9~~~~ly_; 'be }s witfu11 •fearful; ,at1d timorous, yet impUdently ·
~ b~fti~ 9f .·;r.~a,t.·~hirfgs, far ,above his {p,here, .capacity, · und~ritanding, .
.,9r :"~d.~~,ta'kil)~. . :· ·. · '
.· - TAe auart11,~ or oppofitiqn of Strtprn a~d .Yan_
us -
: if Satur.n be ifignifi-
--i~!l~o~:\t ~s ~he a_fp~·et of· i~f.n,y_ ,and._· vice. - ~~e na~i.v~ -l9"es "'-o~e~,
~efir~ upl_aw}pl tpmgs; 'hn ptrn~ge ·ts _ru~e~ -~u condu1on :hafe, gLYen
_) ·No.··x1. - · ' ·3 .G . _ · . ov~r
Digitized by Coogle
. .
.
. ·'·.·
A N -1 L L U S T ll A T I 0 N
over to lulls and pleafures of the fielh, inclinable to nothing but vicious
and fordid atl:ions, prodigal in his expences, wafi:eful to the confumption
of his fortunes. If Venus be figni.ficatrir, it is the afpea of deformity
and bafencfs ; the native is of a poor, low, bafe, timorous, fpirit, afttiCled
with the greateft of all misfortunes and cataftrophes, lofes by the fruiu··
and produBs of the earth, and is indeed a gainer by nothing. It is the
deftrufrion of the fignificatrix.
The quartile or oppofition of Saturn and Mercury: if Saturn be figni-
ficator, it brings many evils from mercurial men and things, and from
profecution and lawfuita ; gives the native an impediment in his fptech,
and makes him fiutter, or ftammer, dulls the fancy, · fpoils the inge-
nuity, and makes the native wholly intent upon mifchief, wickednefs,
deceit, che-ating, and ·thieving. If Mercury be fignificatdr, the native
will be unfortunate in all his ad:ions, perpetually poor, of a perverfe,
fclf-willed, evil, malicious, envious, treacherous, difpofition, and it may
-be a murderer, for Saturn llirs up mercurial men to all manner of wick-
cdnef& ; he will be deceitful above mcafure, of a dcjetl:ed mind, revenge-
ful, and bring nothing to pc:rfcClion. ·
The quartile or oppofition of Saturn and Luna: if Saturn be fignifi-
cator, it is the afpc:d: of travel and difcontent; the native is of an in-
different ftaturc:, dark or black hair, a difproportioned body, fometimes
crooked, a traveller, wanderer, or vagabond; one having the m~will and
reproach of all people, and not undefervedly ; a mere deceiver, and fubjett
to great and manifold misfortunes from the vulgar. If Luna ·be 6gni.6-
catrix, it is the afpeCl of jealoufy, fufpi~ion, and miftruft, the native is
crooked both in perfon and·.mind, malicious, deceitful, ftrongly vi-
cious, fcandalous, and debauched; he is afttid:ed all the days of· his life
with innumerable troubles, crofi"ea from advcrfaries, want of health,
wafting of his efiate, poverty, death of his mother, a lhort life, and
aanger of a violent death. . ..
The quartile or oppofition of Jupiter and Mars: if Jupitcr·be fignifi-
cator, it is the afpelt of fury and ingratitude; the native is ralh, furious,
adventurefome, quurelfome, choleric, and fometimes is vexed with ma~
Jigant fevers, is in danger of a violent death bJ a wound or blow; a
waller and deftroyer of himfelf, running headlong inro precipices, defi-
rous of rule, refolute, ill-natured, fubtle, and perpetually ungrateful to
all hi' friends, forgetting all their kindne1fes. If Mars is figni.ficator,
it is the afpett of atbeifm and infidelity; the native waftes ana.dcilroys
his fortune and fubftance; he is bold .iludacious, impudent, and ibcorri-
&ible; of a proud, fcornful, fcoffing, haughty~ info)ent, humour, a defpifer
2 of
Digitizeq by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y. 229
of religion, virtue, piety, and moral honefty; and is the abomination of
aU.good men.
The quartile or oppofition of Jupiter and the Sun : if Jupiter be fig-
nificator, it is the afpea of arrogance and vain-glory ; the native is
profufe and ~ioto':ls,. given to all_forts o~ exce~s and prodigality, and lofes
his expeaatton; thiS configuratiOn depnves htm of all manner of honour
and preferment: he is ooble, lofty, and brave, bu.t ollly in outward ap..
pearance, and ~oes nothin~ but t? be fee~ of men. If the Sun is figni..
ficator, the native waftes b11 patnmony, IS proud, lofty, and pragmati-
cal; a defpifer of the church and religion, and a great lover of pleafure
.and difiipation, to his own infamy and ruin.
The quartile or oppofi'tion of Jupiter and Venus: if Jupiter be fignifi•
cator, it is theafpeet offornication and luft; the native is given over to
debauchery, more efpecially if Venus difpofet of Jupiter. If Venus
be lady of the fecond, the native waftes his fortune and eftate, and will
become indigent and poor; he follows bafe and lewd women, and gets •
. an infamous name in the world. If Venus be fignificatrix, the native is
proud, pragmatical, conceited, given over to carnal pleafures, a·defpifer
of piety, virtue, honefty, and religion, one having a mere oudide, a :Bat-
.terer, deceiver, a wafter of his own fortunes and patrimony; he will
have many enemies created by his own evil ways, chiefly among thofe of
the church, and people of an honeft converfation.
The quartile or oppofition of Jupiter and Mercury: if Jupiter be fig-
nificator, it is the afpeCl: of firife and c_ontention ; the·native will be in-
volved in many tro~bles, controverfics, and perplexities, have many l.lw-
fuits and iocumbranes, !o his very gre~t preju~ice, and to the injury of
his healt~ as we!l ~sof hts ~ftate; he w11l be.raih,. humo~rfone, and very
unftablem all hts ways, betng generally decetvcd m all h1s e 1:peEtations ;
for Mercury, thus affiiCled, reprefents things wrong to the imagination.
If Mercury be fignificator, it is the afpect of folly and impudence, the
native is ovcr(een in all he undertakes, makes filly refolvcs, and as fool.
·Hhly repents of them to his prejudice; a repining fimple creature, given
over..to fimplicity and abfurdity, to his own ut.
ter undoing. ·
The quartile or oppofiton of Jupiter and the Moon : if Jupiter be Jig-
nificator, it thews a wafting and lofs of fubftance by many ordinary peo·
.ple, makes the native mutable, fooliih, without refolution, and one full
of words without any depth or reafon in them; it lhews alfo )ofs of
credit and eftimatioo, and brjngs many popular evils on him; if the
· Moon
Digitized by Coogle
·'
~so A N t L L U 9·T· R A T I 0 N
Moon be fignificatrix, the native is perplexed with unequal fortunes in
the world, many croifes and affiitl:ions befal him; falfe friends, and de-
ceitful confederates enfnare him, hi5 fubfiance is made a prey to merci..
lcfs enemies, and himfelf the obj~Ct of their cruelty.
The quartile or oppofition of Mars and the · Sun~ if Mars be iigoinca-
tor, it is the afpetl: of confufion and rain, the natiYe aima at great aocl
, high things, but falls at lafi: into an abyfs of trouble ;~.nd mii:ry; he
mifcarries in all his undertakings, heaps upon him(elf tor-rmtJ of .!of.
row, ,od forebodes a vio1ent death, which, ifthe Sun be lord of me 6xtb.;
feventh, or eighth, houfes, wi11 be by mean-s of a fall, .or of.a wouad
with a weapon ; but, if lord of the tenth, by fentence ofa judge. If the
S~n be fignificator. it is the.afpeHofvanity, fury, and madnefs; it fuews
danger of the lofs of an ey~, .v.iolen~ deatb, or death by a malignant fever J
the native is ralh .in all his aClions, fquanders away his fubftaace. and
makes his life and fortunes miferable ar.d defperatc.
The quartile or oppofition of Mar.s and Venus : if Mars 1M 6gni-6ca-
tor, the native is given to vanity, wicke'dnefs~ luftful plea!fttr«, .Ad alt
mooner of abominations of the flelh, gluttony, gaming, and dfiakmg ~
he is tr.eacherous., ill-natured, and very unfortunate ; ·when 'he .marries.
he commonly mar-rie5 a woman of ill-fame; be is muCh given to ltodl-
ing and -olf:entation. If Venus be fignificatrix, the natiYe is m6nitelf
wicked, a thief, felon, highwayman, or murderer ; takes tct aU manner
of vice and mifchief; unfortu~ate both to himfelf and others ; given to
ftrife, contention, and every kind of debauchery ana Wickedndii.•
. )
The quartile or oppofitian of Mars and Mereury: if Mars be 6gnifi-
cator, the native is bold, im,pudent, .bafe, -trcacheroue, deceitful above
meafure, even to his moft endeared friend; an atbeift, ·a defpifer of •
G.ad
and all goodnefs, afuperficia1, inconftant, unfettled, ·wretched, orcatu.c;
a lbifter up and down, a thief, and one that HYeS ·by dangerous <."'urfca.;
one ill brooking, and long retaining, the fenfe of :m inj.nry-
; ·h•moarf0n1e,
conceited, difficult to ·be pleafed, and trnfonnoate iu·&ll tbings. If Men-
cury be fignificator, the native is guilty ,of·rnany crimes, ijs of a ·VJcr'
wicked and evil nature, likely 'to 'be gultty ·of murdM or •robbery J a
ba:eeder of cgn.tention and mifchief, and a follower of almoft every diilio-
nourable pta~lice. ·
'The q.ua.rti1e or oppofhion of Mars -and ·the 'Moon ·: if Mal'S ;befiignifi-
(:~tor, the native is ill-tongued, a ·perfett i{cola, gives r.ming and bafe
. language in almoft all Hifcoul'fe, is ungrateful, ·and a .forgefter •of :lclind-
ne1fes,
oi itized by Coogle
0 F A S 'T R. o· L 0 G Y.
netfes, a wanderer; a vagabond, a defraaor from other men•s ·wortb, one
fhlpid, · and ·ofa fervile life, unfortunate-in alL his undertakings .• If th.e
Moon be fignificatrix, the native will oe in danger of lofing one of his
eyes, die a violent death, or :be fubjeCl to many cro1fes, troubles, and
affiiClions of fortune and juftice; he is fuhjeB: · to hurts, wounds, and
othe~ mifchiefs, an~ is mutable, ~aili, p_ailionate, _
ambitious, prodigal,
malicious, treacherous, and fubjeCl: to innumerable miferies.
' .
· · The qtiartile or oppofition of Sol and Venus ; if Sol be fignificator;
the native lives in a dilhonourable repute, .receives many great troubles
and··misfortunes by means of women; he is bold, ' confident, proud; .one
delighting in ftrife, contention, and oppofition, unfortunate ip moft of ·
his actions, and coming off in moft of his undertakings with dilhonour. ·
If Venus be fignificatrix, · the .native deludes himfelf_with v.aniries, an~
expeCtations of things which will never be; he is angry, paffionate,
and given up to pride, boafting, and Yain glory; receives much hurt by .
gt"eat men, an~ fo~etimes may be in danger of his life. by fentence of
the judge.
1·he quartile or oppofition of Sol and Mercury; if Sol be fignificator,.
the native is fubjeB: to many lo1fes and vexation~ by the law; or receives
hurt by mercurial men and things, .is unfortunate, and has an impedi-
ment in his fpeech, one that is deceitful, falfe, and not to be trufted• . If
Mercury ~- .lignificator, the native is of a middle ftature, dull fwarthy
complc:=xion, tanned or fun-burnt, with light.brown hair,. fu.ll face and.
eye, high nofe, hafty, choleric, proud; angry, ~nd infolen·t ; a bo~fter,
~bitious, h~ghly conceited of himfelf, and fubjeB: to the fro.wns of
princes and great men.
The quartile .or oppofition of Sol and Luna; .if Sol be fignjficator, the
native's fortune is mut_
able and unftable, he falls into contempt and re..
J>f:Oach among the common people, and merits .the hatred or difpleafure
of fome great lady or perfon ; .he is a cheat, de~eiver, .or impofi:or. If .
Luna be fignificatrix, the native is full-faced, of a clear vifage, and light~ .
coloured hair, very ambitious of honour, which flies from him like a
!harlow purfucd; one aiming at and attempting many great things with..
out fuccefs,' bu·t meets with .many cro1fes, lo1fc:s, troubles, forrows; and
obftructions., in his way to preferment.
The quartile or oppofi.tion ofV~nus and Mercury; if Ven.,:as be ·figni.
ficatrix, the native is crafty, fubtle, deceitful, and given t~ thiev~ry; he
-bas an impedime~t in his fpeech, is,of~u_ll u~der~an~ing, fro.ward,.telf-
No. ·12. 3 ~ wdled_.
-
Digitized by Coogle
232 AN ILLUS.TRATION
willed, crofs. and indeed a perfea knave, one whofc ill conditimt't and
bafe mind always keep hirt:1 poor. If Mercury he Ggnifieator, the na-
tive is def:e.itf•d, diilioneft, fiothful, gi-veo to indolence and eafe, and
delights in she company of lewd women ; a mere di1fcmbler, aDd one
t~ waftes and fpemds his fortune.in debauchery.
-
The quartile or oppofition of Venus and Luna; if Venus be fignifica-
trix, it fuews mutability, ftrife, contention, quarrelling, debate, one of
an ill tongue and a worfe.life, unfortunate in ma.rria~eand children, one
idle, indolent, and lazy, fubjeet to poverty and beggary. If Luna be ftg-
nificatrix, the perfon is of a bold, impudent, audacious, di.fpoGtion, given.·
up to Juft and lewdnefs ; a mere vulgar fordid creature, a wanderer,
fugitive, and vagabond ; 61ccei·tful, and fubjeet to a qaultitutle of misfor-
-tune&, efpecially from and amang women.
'lhe quartilebr oppotition of Mercury md Luna; if Mercury be qg-
nificator, the native is mutable, unfi:able in all his ways, foolifu, arro-
gant, void of reafon and good manners, loquacious, and very much con-
.ceited of himfelf; he lhall Illeet with many troubles and oppofitions,
and that from the commo~ people, lofe the favour of fome noble wo-
man,. and be reduces' to an ahjeCl: frate of poverty: the frowns of a
princze are not fo formidable as the hatred· of the common people, for that
fo precipitates a ma~ that it prevents him for ever from rifing again
without tome extr.aordinary aid : if Luna be fignificatrix. let the native
take what care and pains he will, he fuall never do any thing commenda-·
ble; it fignific:s a defect in the' tongue• and makes the ·native in eve[y
undertaking very unfQrtunate, and for the moft part e:x:pofed to contempt
:~nd infamy.
On the E F F E. C T S· of• the H 0 U S E S.
Firft h~ufe. Ifone or both ofthe infortunes viti-ate the degrees afcend..
ing, ·or the light of time be ectipfed.or affiided, or the lord of the afcen-
dattt combuft, or retrograde and peregrine, or the birth was exaCtly up-
on a new or full Moon; or Luna be in conjunCtion, quartile, or oppofi-
tion, of Saturn or Mars, or both, in the fourth, fi'(:th, eighth, or twelftfr•
houfe, or befieged of the infortunes; the. native will be of lhort life; but
contrariwifc:, if there be fignifications of long 1ife; that is, if the afcen·
. dant, planet th.erein, or its lord. or all of them, be in a good houfe of hea-
~en, eifentially. ftrong, and !ree f:om affliction, encreafing in number,
ltght, and mot1on.; the nat1ve will then have a. long and happy life-;
otherwife unhappy. Now the a1BiBing planet, By contidering what
houfe he is lord of, and pofited in, will iliew the caufe. ·
Second
DigitizedbyGO gle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 233
Second houfe.-The cu(p' of the fecon.d houfe, free from alBiaion, or
affified with the prefence or beams of fortunate planets, or part of for-
tune, or lord of the fecond; or the lord of the fecond ftrong, free from
affiictioa, and in a good houfe, or in conjunction, fextile, or trine, of
fortunate planets, or in conjunction of benevolent fixed ftars of the firtl
or fecond magnitude, are all evidcPt teftimonies of mu(;h wealth, and
great ric:hea ; buc, if the cufp of the fecond houfe, the planet therein,
or the loc:d thereof, be combuft, weak, affiicted by conjunction, quar4
tile, or oppofition, of the infortunes, decreafing in number, light, and
motion, or in an evil houfe, they are evident teftimonies of poverty and
extreme want.
Third houfe.-The cufp of the thiid, free from afRiClion, fortified
·with the dragon's head, or good planets, or their afpects, or the prefence
of its lord ; or the lord thereof ftrong and free from affiiClion, and in a
good houfe, in fextile or trine with good planets, or th.e Moon, thews
gt>od, plea{ant, and fafe, journeys; but, if the cnfp thereof or its lord be
afflicted wi-th the conjuBHion, quartile, or oppofition, of the infortune J
or the lord thereof be weak, peregrine, and in the {eventh or eighth houfe,
it indicatea misfortunes, and lo1fes by robbery or otherwife. . .
Fourth· ho~fe.-Tbe lord of the fourth, in the fourth, (and generally
.any planets there,) fuew an inheritance in land, if they are.fortunes, and
1lrongly dignified J ~r, if the cufp of the fourth, or its lord, be in fextile or
trine with Saturn or Jupiter, it denotes the fame; but, if infortunes, Ol' afw
fiided by the que4"tile or oppofitioo of any planet, chiefly Saturn or Mars,
or the lord of the foUt"tb be weak or retrograde, there is either' no in-
heritance, or elfe it is much incumbered, and in danger of being loft.
¥-iftb houf~-The angles and cufp of the .fifth, ~nd .6gn in which the
lord of the e~th is, being io fruitful figns, many planets in· the fifth,
efpecially Jupiter Venus, Mercury, and Luna; or thcty ca-tting their
erines to the fifth, or its Jcrd~ or if chere be anr tranfiation or reception,
or mutual pofition. betw-een·them and the lord o.f the fifth; or tl1e lord of
the fifth, an.d t-he loJ:d of the afuendalllt,.oc the planet- in the afcendant, or
dragon's head·,. IDe there; t!ie.fc are figniiacatoes of a plentiful i1fue : hut.
Saturn, ~rs,. Sol,. or dragon's taiJ, there, efpecial1.)l in· barren ftgns, and
Luna, and: the. lord o6 the afcrendant,_in barren figns aJ.f<>y and the lord ol
the afeendaot. ctr fifth, in qwrtite oc oppofit.ion o~ one anorher, or with
Saturn or Mars, are evident tettimonies·of oorrennefs.
· Sixth houfe.-1£ the lord of the fixth or planet in the 1ixth af.Hid:
not the afcendant or the lord' thereof, or the lord of the a.fcendant be not
in tlie futh,.or in its lord's dignities, or in. quarowc o.r oppofJ.titm- of Sa-
turn
Digitized by Coogle
,
234- A N I L L U S T -R A T I 0 N
turn or Mars; or cornbuftof Sol in'the fixth, feventh, or twelfth, houfes;
or the lord of the fixth, or any planet of his nature, be not in the afcen-
dant ; then will the native be healthful, and of a fl:rong body, and very
free,from difeafes ; and fo contrariwife. If the lord of the fixth or pla-
net therein be in quartile or oppofition of the lord of,the afcendant or fe-
cond, or planets therein, or exalted therein, or the lord of the fecond be
in the fixth in quartile oroppofition of the lord of the afcendant, or fixth,
the native's fervants will prove treacherous and .thievifu to him .; and fo
on the contrary.
Seventh'houfe.~If the ·Moon or any light planet tranfiate the light ·of
the lord of the afcendant or planet therein to the lord of the feventh
or planet therein, or there be any mutual reception between the figni-
ficators, either by houfe or pofition, or ·they apply one to anoth.er by
.conjunction, fextile, or trine, but efpecially with reception, or the Moon
~pply to the conjunClion, fextile, or trine, of the lord of the afcendant,
or planet therein, and the fignificators be in fruitful ngns, the native
will marry ; fo alfo, if lhe tranfiatcs the light of Mars to Venus ; and
.fo contrariwife. The lord of the afcendant near a partite afpeSt of many
planets, or the lord of the feventh and planets therein, applying jointly to
the lord of the feventh, many planets in the feventh, and ·they in good
afpeCt with Luna or Venus, or -lord of the feventh, are arguments of
marrying more than once ; and fo -contrariwife. The agreement between
both is difcerned from the quality of the application, reception, tranfla-
tion, pofition, and dignities, of the fignificators; and in thefe words the
whole bufinefsof public adverfaries is comprehended; fave that that fignifi-
cator which is tl:rongeft, freeft from affiitHon, moft affifted, and heft po-
.nted, -lhaU overcome, and that perfon £hall li-ve longeft~
·Eighth houfe.-The lord of the afcendant !lrong, or in a good houfe,
and in good afpeet with the lord of the eighth, or planets in the eighth;'
or if Jupiter or Venus be lords of . the eighth., or pofited in the cufp
thereo(, or Luna tranflates .the light of the lord of the eighth, or planet
in the eighth, to the lord of the afcendant, .or planets therein, by good
afpeas; or when the lord of the afcendant, the luminaries, lord ·of the
eighth, or cufp of the eighth, be in violent figns, the nati-ve will die a
natural death; but, if the ftgnificators of.death be effentially fortified, and
in the eighth, or in quartile or oppofition of the lord of the afcendant, Sol
and Luna, or planets in the afcendan.t, and in violent figns, or in oppo-
fition to the afcen'dant, the native wHI·be)n danger of dying a violent
.death. The cufp of the eighth adorned with fixed ft~rs of the firfr and
Jecond magnitude, or with the prefence of Jupiter, Venus, Sol, Luna,
.dragon's head, or part of fortune, or with the good afpeCtof the faid pla-
n.
ets ; or the lord thereof ftrong, free from affliCtion, and fortified with
the
oigiti~ed by Coogle
. 0 F A S T 'R ·o L 0 G Y. 2 35
the conjanaion, textile, or ttine, <>f benevo1cnu, are tigns ·of a good
dowry; and fo contrariwife. · ·
Ninth houfe.-If the lord of the ninth," or planets in the nintb, be in
mutual reception with the lord of the afcendant, or planets in the afcen-
dant, or the Moon or any light planet makes any tran1lation, or there be
any pofition or any application between rhe principal fignificators by
good afpeEt, the native will travel, prove a merchant, a fcholar, or cler-
gyman; and, if Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, 'J,.una, the P.ut of Fortune, or
Dragon's Head, be there, or the lor~ of the ninth, or planets therein,
being in good afpeel with any benevolent, the native will be truly religi-
ous, and gai~ much by any thing he undertakes. The lord of the ninth
in the afcendant, in trine to a planet in the ninth, the ume; but, ifSaturn,
Mars, or the lord of an evil houfe, or Dragon's Tail, be poLhed there; or
tbe lord thereof be weak, combuft, affiiCled, or retrograde ; it forebodes
o1u.ch evil, ·
Tenth'·houfe.-The only figns ofhonourare theftrengthofthelordsof
the afcendant, medium creli, and their difpofition either by good applica-
tiOA, pofitioo, reception, or tran1lation; or the prefence or good afpect of
Jupiter, Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna; or the. pofition of the Dragon's
Head or Part of Fortune in the tenth or deventh houfea; the contra,ry
afpects fuew dithonour, difgrace, lhame, contempt, and at length end.ut·
gera violent death.
Eleventh houfe.-The lord of the eleventh, or any o-
ther planet there"
t'hew friends; fo alfo, if they be in mutual reception, or pofition. or if
tbe.re be a:ny tranfiation or application between them and the lord of the
afcendant, or planets therein, or if Jupiter, Venus, Sol, Luna, or Dra-
gon's Tail, be there, they are arguments of great, noble, generous. and
faithful, friends ; but, if the fignificaton have malignant afpects, and
there be 110 tranflation, ~eception, nor pofition, or if Saturn and Mars
or the lord of the twelfth be pouted there, they thew either few or no
frien&, or _clfe very bad and falfe ·ones.
Twelfth houfe.-No planet in the twelfth, nor the Iord·thereof in
any afpect with the lord of the afcendant, or planets. in the afcendant, or
afcendant itfelf, or the lord of the afcendant not pofited in the twelfth.
,
or in afpea with the lord of the twelfth, are arguments of few private
enemies ; but, if the afcendant, its lord, or planets therein, be in conjunc-
tion ot evil afpeCl: with th~ lord of the twelfth, or Saturn and Mars, and
they lords of evil houfes, or if they be pofited in the afceodant, fevcntb,
or twelfth houfes, or in combuftion, the native will have many and great
.enemies, and be fubjeel to imprifonment, and many other troubles; but
No. 13. 3 I if
Digitized by Coogle
236 A N I · L L. U S T R A T I 0 N· ~
if inftcad of evil, the afpetb be good, with the tignificaton in bad·
. houfes, the native will be deluded and drawn into troubles through fair
pretences, and his priv~te enemies will always be fuch as outwardly ex-
prefs a kindnefs for him. -
f GENERAL JUDGMENTS to be inferred from DIRECTIONS.
'The lord of the '!ftendant to promi/!ors. To the afcendant, it figni..
· ik§.JDnch happinefs ; to the fecond houfe or its lord, it has lignification
of fubftance; to the third or its lord, of Journeys; to the fourth or its
lord, of inheritances ; to the fifth or its lord, of children ; to the fixth
or its lord, of ficknefs and fervants; to the feventh or its lord, wives,
public enemies; and law-fuits ; to the eighth or its lord, death and le-
gacies ; to the ninth or its lord, le~rning, ecclefiaftical preferment, mer..
chandize, g.oing· to fea; to the tenth or its lord, honour, preferment,
office, dignity, trading; to the eleventh or its lord, friends, hopes, and
cxpeaancies ; to the twelfth or its lord, imprifonment, and private
enemies. ·
'The lord oftht flcond to promflfors. To the fecond, a gre~~ c:~
Qf wealth and riches ; to the third or its lord, gain or lofs by Kindred,
neighbours, or travelling; to the fourth or its lord, ,gain or lofs by houfes,
lands, or parents ; to the fifth·or its lord, by children, or by gaming; to
the fixth or its lord, by fervants, or cattle; to the feventh or its lord,
by marriage, women, public enemies, law-fuits; to the eighth or its
lord, by death, or legacies ; to the ninth or its Jord, by learning, arts,
fciences, the fea, religion ; to the tenth or its lord, by trade, honour.
preferment, or dignity .; to the eleventh or its lord, by friends; to the
twelfth or its lord, by great cattle, private enemies, icriprifonment ; to
the afce.lldant or its lord, by the native's own induftry. · . .
'Iot lord ofthe third to promf§ors. To the third, many pleafan.t_jour-
neys; to the fourth houfe or its lord, gain by travelling, or to fee his father,
or fome eftate; to the fifth or its lord, travelling for pleafure, or ·on ac-
count-of children ; to the fixth houfe or its lord, journeys about fmall
cattle ; to the feventh or its lord, journeying on fome Jaw-fuit, public
adverfary, or woman • to the eighth houfe or its lord, concerning fome
legacy, or wife's portion ; to the ninth or its lord, for the fake of reli..
gion, merchandize, learning, or to fee foreign countries ; to the tenth
or its lord, for honour, preferment, trade, or to fee his mother; to the
eleventh or its lord, to fee a friend, or in hopes of advantage; to the
twelfth or its lord, becaufe of private enemies, or fear ofimprifonment;
to
· oigitizedbyGoogle
I
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 237
to .the afcendant or its lord, for health or plcafure; to the·fecond or ita
lord, for fubilance or wealth. ·
The lord if t!Je fourth to promfffors. To the fourth boufe, inheri-
tances; to the fifth or its lord, an efi:ate to fome ofthe native's children;
to the fixth or its lord, an·efi:ate to fall to the native from fome relations,
or undos and aunts by the father's fide; to the feventh or its lord, by
marriage, or the law ; to the eighth or its lord, by fome legacy or porrion
by a wife ; to the ninth or its lord, by learning, trading to fea, the
church, or wife's kindred ; to the tenth or its lord, by the wife's fa..
ther, or the king or fome noble or great man·,; to the eleventh or its
lord, by means of a friend ; to the twelfth or its lord, bydealing in cat-
tle; · to_!.h.~_or. its. Jor.d,-by..bis O~l_!-~n~_g(!ry; to the fecond or
its lora, by purchafe; to the third or its lord, by death of kindred.
·7'1Je lortl ofthe fifth to prom(ffors. To the fifth houfe, it gives to the
n,ative a child ; to the fixth or it$ lord, that his children may become
fervants to him ; to the feventh or its lord, that they may travel, or that
his wife may have another child; .to the eigh.!h_or it!J.o!~ _<!a_nger. of
death, throu~h fome excefs of e_leature; to the ninth or its lord, that
the native wit chiefly deligllt-in· religiOri, arts, fciences, or the fea; to
the tenth or its lord, ficknefs to the native's children; to the eleventh or
its Jord, the love of a fpecial fri,end, or the marriage of one of &is chil-
dren ; to the twelfth or its lord, the death ofa child, or danger thereof,
or a legacy left to it; to the ·afcendant or its lord, the love or hate of the
natiYe's children to him, or their travelling beyond fea; to the fecond or
its lord, that they fllall have honour and renown in the world,.. and have
fome gifts from their father ; to the third or its lord,. that the native
1hall take recreation in the c~untry, and among his kindred; to the
fourth or its lord, that the native's children may deal in great cattle, and
have man.v private enemies. ·
~!Je lord if the jixth to promfffori. To the fixth houfe, thriving by .
trade and hufbandry; to the teventh or its lord, danger of ficknefs
through fome women, or by quarrelling ; to the eighth or its lord, dan-
ger of mortal ficknefs .; to the ninth or its lord, ficknefs at fea, or from
too mach ftudy ; to the tenth or its lord, grief for fome diilionour, or
not attaining· the honour defired ; to the deventh or its lord, infeHion
among cattle, or grief of the native for fome fpecial friend's fake; to the
. twelfth or its lord, lofs of cattle by thieves, ficknefs, or infc::Ction ; ro
the afcendant or its lord, ficknefs through the native's own folly ; tq tho
{ecood or _its lor<!,_f~~-V!an.J_9Lmon~y~..-.or.Jo.fs._.of an eftate.; lo the third
or its lord, by reafon of fome journey, or uo~indoc:fs of kindred; to the
fourth or its lord, by reafon of his fa,her, or grief for lofs of inheri-
tance;
Digitized by Coogle
231 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
ta{lef! ; .tG the fifth or ita lord, from fame unlawful J*aiare, di!<N;odi-
ence, or death of a child.
~ /on/ o/ tht .fo'vt~tth tJJ prfJIIIiffors. To ~ fcY.eAdt boufe, fick.
nefs, or HIRefs to the nativ-e ; to the eigbtb or itt Jord, the wife.,I por-
tion ; t{) the niAth or its lord, dae ·goes into the cOMAtry,. 6r is oonccr.ncd
w·ith her kind-red ; to the tenth ot its lord, tab:s poB"dlion of an iaheri..
t-ance ; to the eleventh orits lord, the h16 .a .child. or comes more iota the
110:Cband's favour ; to the twelfth Ot' its lard, the is fickly, or {ome w.ay
c-oncerned with her hufb~tnd'sprivate enemies ;.to·the afcendaat or it~ lor.d,
4be and her hutband becomegr.eater frieftds .or.enemies thao fO!"merly; then
alfo 13'w-fotts either begin or end; to the tcc(}nd or its lord. a wife ·poli$ic
et~emy:, ~f. a w-fuit proves good ()r _ba_~ to the native's fubfi:ancs ; to the
third or ita lord, fhe either goes-beyond fea, or takes fome long joanaey i
to the fourth or its lord, flle brings him lands; to the fifth or its lord,
children and friends ; to the fixth or ita lord, 1he meets with priYate
enemie6.
'Iht lwd of the eighth 11 p,.o,ijjors. To ~h boufe, l.qfa"i.u;
to the ninth or its lord, k:gacies by fame of the wife'sbrettuco, oc by a
·clergyman J to the 'enth or its lord., ·by his wife•s father or his own mo-
ther ; :to the ele.enth or its lord, by fome friend.; so dlc twelfth Qr ita
lord, by fomc of his wi£e's uncles or aunts by the father's ude, or fo~cof
·his owft by the mother's tide ; to the afceridant or its lord., danger o£
death 1 to the fecond or its lorci, ceceiviog of the wife's portion ; to the
1bird or its lord, a ·kgacy by a brother or kiatinaa ~ to the fow-th ~ it$
lord, by a father J to the fifth or its I~ danger of death to a child, or
·the falling of ·an inher~tance to it ; to the fixth or its lo.-<1. a dangerous
fickRefs to the native • to ·the fcveotb or its lord. the wife's dowry, or
legacie~ by means of a wife.·
The lord of the ninth to promflfors. To the ninth houfe, good !11e-
.-cefs at Jea, church preferment J to the tc.ntb or its lord, preferment
and honour by means of learning, the fea, or the church ; to the eleventh
-or its'lord, -that the native geu many friends by his learning and fanaity;
1o the twelfth or its lord, many private enemies; to the afcendant or its·
lord, that the .Qative fhall attain to learning, arts, fciences, or eccleua..
.ftical prcfer!Dent through his own induftry; to_the.fe~ond ~ its lo~
means of h1~ wealth, and .that he.may get or lofC? fubftance ~; to
the third or its lord, that he may attain thofe things .bymcaiis ,of a bro-
ther, :kinfman. or neighbour, or may travel for improvement • to the
fourth or its lord, by means of a father or of an inheritance, or he may
.get an eftacc thereby ; to the fifth or its lord, that he 1haU be induftri- ,
a o~
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
ous, 2n4 delight in the education of his children ; to the fixth or its lord,
ficknefs .through too much fi:udy, or care for bufinefs; to the feventh
or its lord, church preferment by me<~ns of a. wife or woman; to the
eighth or its lord, by means of her fortune; or danger of death for fome
mifdemea11or. ·
'The lard of the tenth to promf/fors. To the tenth houfe, great and
~minent honour and preferment • to the eleventh -houfe or its lord, pre-
ferment through friends, and that he lhalJ attain honourable friends by
his preferment; if he be a tradefman, he will gain much thereby, through
his friends aod acquaintance, and..fo on, co'!fideratis co'!fiderandis; to. the
twelfth or its lord, difuonour and lofs, or danger of imprifonment by
means of a private enemy; tO the .~.f~~O~!Ql.Q.C. iu.JQr<J•.JJ~J).c;>_U.r~ .g_J~!YI.~Qf....•
~iJ:oiij', _
by_ll-!;.. -~~ ~-~.&J.1Jtri~~o the fecond or its lord, by means of
money ; to the third or its lord, by travel, kindred, neighbours, or the
like; to the fourth or its lord, by means of a father, or an inheritance;
to the fifth or its·lord, by means of children, or pleafant companions; to
the fixth or its lord, by .means of a {ervant ; to the feventh or its lord,
by a wife, or feme woman; to the eighth or its lord, by a legacy, or
wife's portion ; to the ninth or its lord, by the fea, merchandize, the
church, arts, fciences, &c. ·
'Ihe lord of the eleventh ht;uft to promlf!ors. To the eleventh hou.fe,
fure friends; to the twelfth or its lord, friendlhip from enemies; to
the afcendant or its lord, endeared friends for the native's own fake; to
t {econd or its lord rofitable friqnds ; to the third or its lord,
friend tp or indred, bret reo, or ne1g 6ours; to the fourth ot: its lord,
friends by means of an ell:ate; to the fifth or its lord, by mea.ns of jo..
vial companions, or children ; to the fixth or its lord, by means of a fer-
vant ; to the· feventh or its lord, by a wife, or the reconciliation of an·
enemy; to the eighth or its lord, legacies by means of a f-riend, aJfo
honourable friends; to the ninth or its lord, friendlhip by reafon of the
church, {ea, arts, fciences, merchandize, &c. alfo religious friends i to the
tenth or its lord, the friendfuip of the king, queen, or .fome nobleman;
honourable friends, and fuch as are frienda to him by reafon of his pro-
feffion, dignity, or greatnefs.
'Iht lord of the twelfth to promiffors. To the twelfth houfe. pri-
vate enemies ; to the a{cendant or its lord, danger of imprifonmcnt;
to the fecond or its lord, lofs or gain of fubftance by private enemies or
by cattle ; to the third or its lord, enemies amongfi: kindred or relations s
to the fourth or its lord, prejudice to inheritances ; to the fifth houfe
or .its lord~ ficknefs, falfity of children; to the fixth houfc or its lord,
No.·12. 3 K lofs
Digitized by Coogle
s4o AN ILLUSTRATION
lofs of -cattle by robbery or the like; to the fuenth or its Jord, aea~
of private enemies ; to the eighth or its lord, gifts Ot' legacies; to the
nint~ 2-r~ lord, enemies amonLchur~h!Den, me~..awl_.!slrPed
men; to t e tentli or its lord:tllenoticeofireat and noble mea, or
JO'lS'Of credit ; to the ele'venth or itS lord, lofs of friends, or that friends
may become enemies.
( Tbefe directions may either fignify good or evil to thofe things which
· we have fpecified them to fignify, according to the natQre and quality of
.the promiffor; for, if the direction was to the fextHe or trine of th~ pro-.
rni1for, without .doubt the things promifed by that direCtion may be
eminently good; if to the quartile or oppofition, very bad; and, if to .
the conjunction, then according to ~he nature ~nd qu_
ality o( the planet,
and the houfes he is lord of, be he good or ev1l.
As the a!cend~t fignifies the body, mind, and life ; the fecond; ef-
tate and fubftance; and the tenth, preferment, credit_
, trade, and favour of
grea~ ~nen ; fo alfo Sol, Luna, .
and the part of fortqne, bcfides what they
import by being pofited in or lords of any particular hotJfe, fignify the
body, mind, f~bftance, life, health, dignity, offices, affeCtions, ctbt~,
fortune, and friendlbip, of great perfons. Thefe things being under-
ftood, he that would truly jupge of the effdts ·of direEtions, ought
to confider the true ftgnificatioo of the fignificator, .of the promit.-
_tor, and of tbe houfe ;' firll-, what they fignify etfentially, and what ac-
~idcntaUy; fecondly, what by domination, apd what by pofition ~ for
thofe things fignified by the fignificator !baH c:ithcr be augmented or di-
. miniilied, pre(erved or deftroycd, ftrengthened or weakened, attained or
loft, according, firft, as the houfe or point where the. direCtion faUs is
fortified or vitiated, by the prcfence or beams of good or evil ftacs; fc.,
condly, according to the eminen~y of the fignifi.cator; al)d, laftly, p.s tha
promitfor is. good or bad, ilrong or weak.":Therefore the fignificator
ignifies the thing promifcd J the houfe in which the difeclion falls, ita
. relation or quality; and the pr~Ufor, the means of the a.coompliilirncat;
wherein mutt be confidered the radicat fortitudes of both, for accordingly
the effeCts of the direction will operate, and be durable, wh.ether good
or evil, till this or fome other figuificator meets with a.no~her promiffor,
& econtrario j wherein note, tha~, if the .fignificator pe ftrong, the thing
promifed will ~every _good and great; which, if the Eromi1for anfwers
Jn ftrengtb, in the diretlion will glorioufiy appear; but. It the promi1for be
weak or mean, the native may attain the thing Lignified, but not without
great delay, labour, care, and ~oil: but f;Ontraciwif~, if the fignific~tor be
· w-k·
"!'"!' lJ
~·
Digitized by Coogle
0 F· A S T R 0 L 0 G Y~
weak ; for then the matter will not be great nor eminent, leube promif-
10r be what it will. · ·
If the fignificator difpofes of the place of the direCtion, though an
evil one, the promHfot will not do fo much hurt as it otherwife would;
but,. i£ the 'promitfor be difpofer of the place of an evil direction, it will
then operate with double force, according to the greatnefs of its malig-
nity. But, if another planet difpofes of the place of the diredion, then~
according as that planet fympathizes with the fignificator, either by na-
ture, body, or beams, fo the· good or evil figqified by the diredion
'hall be increa(,d or dimini1bed. , ·
If Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, be tignificat9rs, they wilJ not be fo a'luch
impe4ited by evil promi1fors·as the other planets are; but, whenever they
.are promitfors, and affiicted by malefic afpects, they ~ff~a what they
portend with violence. · · · . .
. If two dir~ttio~s, the one good, the other evil, thall operate at one and
the fame ~»ne; unlefs th~y are diametrically opp9fite one to another, the ·
etfeas of both will app~ar, but that moft apparently \fhich coheres witb
th<: revolet~on of the y~r. · . _..,
The fignificfltor and promi1for thall fympathi~e together; and, 'jf the
good direction ihall fall in r~xtiJe to the radical pl~ce ?f th~ fignificato:~
or pear the body of an ~mmen~ fi.xed ftar, coherm& m nature; that dt..:. .
reaion will famo~,t.fi.y manif~ft its inJluenc~; for directions to the bodies
offixed ftars of the firft, fccend, or third, magnitude, according as they
in nature ~gree or difagrc~ with the fig.nificator, (o the1 will fudd~ly 3nd
uneJ'peetedJy_eith~r h~J·p or impede him, and chietly in and lly tho~e things
fignified by the bQ~t4; in whic~ t~ dir~tl:ion f.alls. · . · ·
J U D G M E N T S to be inferred from T R A N S I T S.
. .
Tranfits of good planets by good placea or pr()Q)iai::>rs fignify good, J,ut
by. evil _places, evil ; and fo contrariwife. And.whatfoever we have be-
fore {aid of directions, the fame things, io an inferior d«grec, ace to .be
underfi.ood of tranftt~, with this di1fercnce, that, whereas diredio ndig...
Rify the good f>r evil to be emineQt, tranfita .fignify much,fmallcr JDa.c~
ters ~f the fame kind. , and whereas the foJCe or effeCts of a djr.edipn lafi•
long, the effects of a tranfir are generally over ~~ [oon as the tranfit ; the
one oftentimes lafiing years, the other p\t.t days or weeks at anotl•
...-
Digitized by Coogle
242 A N I L L U S· T R A T ·"I 0 N
·But the tranfits of the_ fuperiors, as Saturn and Jupiter, are very emi-
nently to be confidered, for they never pafs without obvious effeCts, which
often Iaft a who!e year, be they good or evil.; for, if they be lords of ilt
houfes, or radically 'in an ill hoult>, if ·they tranfit the afcendant, the
..quartile, or oppcifition, or place of its lord, they threaten ·~ife; if th·e
fecond or its lord, the fubftance; if the third or its lord, journeys J ·if
-the fourth or its 'lord, danger to the father, ·or'lofs df inheritance; if the
fifth or its lord, lofs ·by gaming, and death ofchildren; if·the fixth or'its
lord, death of catfle; if t~e feventh or its lord, ficknefs ·of the wife;
.if the eighth or its lord, lofs of fubfi.ance, becaufe they caft their op-
pofition .unto the fecond ; if the ninth or its lord, ·}~fs at 'fea, robbing by
·land~ envy of churchmen ; if the tenth or i-ts lord, the king's difplea-
fure if a courtier, 'but'lofs of trade if a tradefman • <if the eleventh or its
·Jord, evil friends, or their affliCtion, the lofs of hopes; ifthe twelfth or
its lord, death, and lofs by cattle.
Obferve -on .what day the moon or other _
planets caft their trine or
fe:xtHe to the cufp of the fecond, or ·tranfit the trine or fe:xtile of its lord,
or planet near 'its cufp, or caft their trine or fextile 'to ·the part of fortune,
.for. thofe days wm be good to the nat!ve, and very profitab'le; and. if
he mind his ·bufinefs, 'he may then have-aftonitbing fuccefs; bot thofe
d~s -in which the faid planets tranfit the quartile or oppofition will be as
bad. wherein, if he ·tof.es not money, he is fure to get none.; and this I
have found ·more :than a thoufand times true; the fame if an evil planet
tranfits the conjunCtion of the 'lord of the fecond or part of fortune; but
;the tranfits of a good planet to their coryunHion are advantageous.
Saturn and Jupite~, .if they 'be lords of good lloufes, and tranfit the
good afpetl or corijuncHon of any fignificator, with whom they agree in
nature, or were radically in good afpeet with. fignify much good.
If .good planets .or the lord of the afcendant tranfit th~ medium c~Il,
-or place of its lord, or its fextile or trine, the native gets honour, or
trade, and, if he be in pur.fuit of any preferment, he attains ·it.
The lord of the afcendant, ·tranJtting the afcendaat or hit radical place,
1hews health to the native; the fecGnd, or the conjunCtion, fextile, or
t-rine, of its-lord, gain ; the third, QrconjunCtion, fextile., or trine, of its lord,
!OOd journeys, and the friend1hip of kindred and neighbours, &c.
The lord .of.the fecond tranfiti11g the-
cufp thereof, or his radical :place.
denote-
s gain; the third houfe, or the conjunction, {extile, or trine,·of its
.lor4, or .planet therein, iliews gain by travc:Jling, neig-hbours, kindred, &c•
., The
-
Digitized by Coogle
0 F 'A S ·T R 0 L 0 G Y.
. The tranfits of the Moon difcover all things, whether good or evil.
which happen to a man daily, through the whole courfe of his ·life; her
application to, or tranfits of, fextiles and trines, thew good ; of quartile$
and oppofitions, evil, concerning all thofe things fignified by that honfe
in which the tranfit is made; where, if lhe be fignificatrix, the good or
evil will alfo fall in part upon the things·lignified by her. according to
the houfe fue was lady of, or pofited in the radix; but, if not, the good
or evil will fall upon thofe things fignified by the fignificator which is
tranfited.
J U D G M E N T S to be inferred from R E V 0 L U T I 0 N S.
Thejudgments of a revolution are eafy to be determinied, by confider:.
ing in what houfe and fign in the revolution the radical fignificators are
pofited ; for according to thofe revoJutional pofitions and configurations
we are to judge. So that, if the lord of the fecond houfe be in the third, i~
ihews gain to come either by.travel, or by kindred, or neighbours; and, if
he be alfo in fextile or trine with the lord of the third in ·the radix, the
fame; if with the locd of the fourth. by a father; if in the medium ca!li,
or in conjunCtion, fextile, or trine, with his radical lord, gain by trade.
office, preferment, or noblemen. Hence it appears, that the fignificator of
fubftance in a revolution is not the lord of the fecond in the revolution,
but the lord of the .fecond in the radix; the fignificator of lands is not
the lord of the fourth in the revolution, but the lord of the fourth in the
radix; the fame is to be underO:ood of the reO:; but, if the fame fign whic~
afcended radically afcends in th~ revolution, its effeCts will bo the more
firm, becapfe the fignificators are the fame; the like, if the fame planets
which were lords of the feveral houfes in the radix be lords of the fame
in the revolution, though they potfefs not the fame fign.
. Whatfoever good or eyil is prefagcd unto the native, either by direc-
tion, tranfit, or revolution, we are to meafure the greatnefs thereof, ac-
cording to the radical ftrength or fortitude_
s of ~e fignificators, compar-
ed with their fi:rength or fortitudes at the tim~ of direCtion; where, if
tbey ·are radically fi:rong, the good or evil will be great and permanent,
the which is confirmed if they be ftrong alfo at the time of ~rection or
tranfit ; if radU:alJy weak, the good or evil will bu-t meanly manifeft it-
felf; and fcarcely at all, if weak at dw:'"t-ime of direction or traofit ; but,
if radically weak, and ftrong at the tim'e of the direCtion or tra9fit, the
effeCts thereof may appear much beyond the ex.peetation of the native.
_but will not be very durable.
No.Iz. The
•
Digitized by Coogle
~4>4 A N I L L U S T 1l A T I 0 N
. .
The S I G N I F I C A T l 0 N of feveral F I X E D S T AR S in
N A T I V I T l E S.
The figQificator of life or manners; joined to Caput Algol, makes the
·native 'fudy and c·holeric, and thews danger of Cadden death. To the
J>Jeiades, it thews wantonnefs, ambition, and fcorn. To Aldebaran,
courage in war, and a ma·rtial inclination; the lord ofthe afcendant and the
Moon or Saturn ·in:conjunctioo with this ftar, thews a murderer, or one
that bears a very wicked mind. To Hircus, thews curiofity, one defiring .
novelties ; yet a careful. and fi:ea.dy per~on. To Cin~ula Orionis, a fuarp ~
memory and underftandtng, one mdufi:rtous. To Syrtus, an angry, proud,
fancy, giddy, imprudent, perfon. To Hercules, fubtilty, craft, bold-
nefs, and cruelty. · To Regulus, greatnefs of fpirit, a generous and mag~
·nanimous mind, one ambitious of rule and dominion. To·Antares, an
unruly rath petfon, and one likely to ruin himfeJf:by his obftinacy. To
Arifta, a fweet, noble, g~nerous, foul, a lover of arts and fciences, and,
if Me"rcury be wlfh lt, ~ curious·i'nventor of rare things ; but; if Saturn,
a •iolent rigid fellow, and fometimes a fool. To Aquila, boldnefs, con-
·ndence, valour, ·but a wicked perfon. To Cauda·Delphina, one delight-
ing in\fp6rts, ~attics, thooting, hunting, and ·the like. Tbe.fignifrca-
tor of fubfi:ance, or tufp of the'feconH, part of fortune, or its ·difpofitor,
in conjunition with ·Re-gulus, or·with Arifta, fuew ·much ri~hes.
The fignificators of fubftance, ·part ·of fortune, or its lord, in conjunc-
tion with Aldeba·ran ·or Caput Algol,. thew l"ofs of eftate, and poverty.
The Sun or Moon wlth the Pleiades or Przfepe, .Antares, or Deneb,·t.he
native!will fuffer'fotne 'butt or <i"efeCl in 'his eyes ; und it ·is incurable if
that light'be angular. ~he 'Moon in:conjunCtion with Cingula Orionis,
"2nd combufi:, fliewsLblln'dnefs ofone·eyeat leaft. The ftgniticators ofho-
nour in conjunaion_, or with~n fi~e degrees of conjunCtion forward or back-
ward, with Aldebal'an, or·with ·H·ercutes, Regulus, Arifta, Lanx Bore- .
alis, or Antates, J 1hew ·gre:tt "honour an4. preferment. ·T'he San or·Moon
in conjun'Ction with the ·Pleiades, -or the 'Hyades, 'thews military prefer-
ine'rit:;·the fame· if t'hofe ft:tts cutrninare. 'Caput Algol clilmin1ting, ·give~
the natiVe authority over others ; {o·alfo Mdebaran, or Antares, in con-
junB.ion of"Sol or'Luna in dte·afcendant, or m~diam creli, give·tbe·native
honour, ·but with many di"t1ic'u1ties and cafualties. Arifta afceriding or .
culminating, gives· the ·native ·religious-preferment. Fomahaut an·d i Ri-
gel in the afcenaant, or-medium cceli, -give an immortal name. Regulus,
Araurus, or'Hl!ll1etus Orionis; in conjunition of. Sol, Luna, orJupi!er,
in the tenth, give ample fortunes, and very ·great preferment. ·Syrips~
or Procyon, in coojunHion with .Sol in the afcendant or tenth, gives r(?yal
preferment and favour.
•
Digitized by Coogle
'
0 F A 5 ·T R 0 L 0 G Y. 245
The iu~i1)1ries, one or both iB conjunction with Caput Algol,. or
with Aldebaran, Hercules,. Humerus Orionis, or Antares, prefage a vio•
lent death. Sol in conjunCtion with Caput Algol, in the e~ghth, and
his difpofitor in quartile or oppofition to Mars, the native will be in dan-
ger of lofi.ng his head; if the light culminates, he may die by fome wound.
Luna with Hereules, or Arcturus in the afc~odant, feventh or tenth, in
conjunction with Mars, the native will be' in danger of being fuffocated~
Luna with Antat'es, and Mars in .the· fourth, ·.fevcnth, clev.enth, or
twelfth, houfes, with Aldobaran, the native will die by the (word, or by
.' a blow, or ·a fuddea fall. Lunra wit.h Antares .in oppofi.tion of Saturn
with Aldebaran, dlcws, that, if the native be not hanged, he will at 1eaft
die a violent ·death. Saturn or Mars with Caput Algol, and Luna with
Deneb, 'he dies by the fencencc of the judge. The Moon ~ith Coc Hy-
dra, atHiaed by Saturn or Mars, he will be in danger of poilon, or of
drowning; and, ifthe infortune be angular, it,is:fo much the more certain..
The Moon with Procyon; and· Sol or Mars with Lucida Vulturis, or ~o­
mabau~. orUltima~in dorfo·Cepricorni, thews dang-er of being-bit by aven~
mo.us beaft. The Mo911 with Syrius and Saturn, or Mars with Ultima in
·ala Pegafi, a violent -death ·by the fu.ry of violent -bea~, or.martial m~n.
The Moon with ··Cingula Orioois and Saturn, or with Caput Hercules,.
or Antares,.thews the native will be in dangerof periihing by water,. or by
wicked perfoos. The Moon with cbe Pleiades,.and Saturn or Mars with .·
Regulus, iliews ·the lofs -ofone or both the eyes : and this judgment. is
confirmed, if Luna at ~e -{ame time be combuft. .
·The Pleiades in coojunCtion with Mars, and ·Regulus with Saturn,. are
eminent fignifications-of a violent and untimely death. Fixed ftars of
the firft magnitude ·near ·the cufp ,of the fevent~ iliew a good and rich
wife; but her conditions will much fJlllpathize with the nature of the
ftars. Significatorsjeined with fixed ilars of ~be fi-rft or.fecood magnitude,
near the ecliptic, ·lhew great preferment, and eminent hoooprs. Fixed
fiars of the nature of Saturn inconjunaion with Sal, involves.the native
in many miferies. Fixed ftars of the nature of Mars and S~l, or Mercury.
and Luna, give glory an4 renown; of the nature.of Jupiter.an.d Ven1,1s,or
Mercury aod V~nus, hoQour and wealth. Fixed ftars in angles, give
admirable preferment, and many g-reat gifts ; and ~levatc from poverty to .
an extreme height of fortune.
The SIGNIFICATION of:FIXED STARS in DIReCTIONS.
The af~eodatH, .a planet therein, or its lord, qiretted to Ultitpa in ala
-
Pegafi, .Oculus Ta.uri borealis, Lucida pedis Gemini, in femore Leonis,
1bew ~to . tbe native__go~ fortune, worldly bappinefsJ . with the love of
• ~ . . , . wome-n.
Digitized by Coogle
246 _A N I L ·L U S T R A T 1: 0 N
women. 'f.o the Pleiades, Hyades, Catlor., Poilu~, or Pr~fepe, w.oundt
or hurts in the face, arms., or eyes; im.prifonmeat, captivity, banithment.
or other obfcurity; the native has <>ften fore eyes U.pon thefe direaioDs .;
·falls into many troubles through haft; engages in .q11arrels, meets with
Jofs oft'eputation, and· fometimes death itii:lf. T~ dte Afelli, a· burn-
ing fever, lofs of eye..:6ght, efpecially the left eye, or [orcnefs of the
eyes through diftiHatio.ns · of . fharp rheum; hurts by fierce and violent
beafts or quarrels, malicious aanders, and .otlaerinconveniencies. To Cin-
gula Orionis, Lanx Borealis, Axilla Sagitarii, Cornu Capricorni Auftralis,
Tibia dextra Aquarii, denotes legacies by inheritance, gain by jovial men
and things, occa.fions inordinate love, and gives a kind of gravity. To Al-
debaran, Regulus, from Scorpio, Antares, Humerus prrecedens Orionis,
Humerus fettuens Orionis, honour and wealth in a large meafure, dlima-
tion among perfons noble and great; yet thefe directions fhew fome dan-
ger to the native•s health, and may give him acute fever, or othe_
r
violent difeafe. To Arifta, honour and r.enowa in the .church, ecclefi.afiical
preferment, applaufe and eftimation among all men~ :it makes the native
ingenious, induftrious, honourable, and beloved. To Cauda Leonis,
much worJtUy happinefs, hut accompanied with melancholy, troubles,
and difcootont. To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, GeAu Caftoris, Genu Pollucis..
Ventre Gemini, .or Cynofura, thews danger oflife. .honour•.or eftate, by
evil men, th·i<:ves, a.nJ the like.; ~t thefe d.ir.eclions cfte~ .give the native
po1fdfions, -inheritances, and legacies. To Luc!da Colli Leogis., Al3
Leonis, Dorfo Leonis, Lanx Auftralis, Genu & tibia dextra Ophinci,
Deneb, Ultima in Dorfo Capricorni, Sinifter humerus, & cubitus dexter
Aquarii, makes =the native .folidtous about_houfes, potfeffions, buildings,
mines, or the .like-; gi11es him much labour. care,. hazard, difturbance,
and VeKation, and a melancholy difpo4ition.; Wi.th difgrace, fiander, and
fcandl}l, through women.. To Hircu$, it makes the native eminent in
mar-tial affairs, and .dl:irs hi-
m tap to valour, ma.king him fubtle, witty,
and difcreet, bu:t a mere di1fembler; {pending and wafting himfelf upon
1ufts and ·wantonnefs, which ruins his credit and eftimation, reduces his
trade if he has any, and at laft brings him to.thieving, fwi~dling, robbing,
and the like defperate p.urfuit&. . -
The mediam creli, planets ther.ein, or its lord, direCted to Ultima in ala
Pegafi, Zona Andromeda, Pes Andromedz, Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lu-
.cida _pedis Gemini, iD femore Leonis, or Lucida Coronz, gives the native
honour, glory, and renown, a-nd makes his fortune generally rife by means
of women. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Humerus Orionis fequens & pre-
-cedens, C<sftor, Pollux, Procyon, or Przfepe, brings the native's honour into
.queftion, wounds his reputation; involves him in many troubles and contro-
~>erfic:s; portends dange~of a ftab, of imprifonmeot or of fume trag.ical end
1 • of
•
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L· 0 G Y-.
of his life. To the AfeUi, Capot Hercules. Marchab, Dexter humerus·
Aurigm, forefuew an everlafting wound in the native·s honour, and mo.re
efpecially if the Dragon's Tail be sear them; he then runs himfelf into
~ery fpecies of fin and wickednefs. To Cingula Orionis, Lanx Borealis,
Axilla Sagittarii, Cornu Capricorni Auftralis, Tibia de:x:tra Aquarii, Caput
Andromeda, Collo Serpentarii, ~ews honour, glory, renown, the favour of.
great men, clergymen, ecclefiall:ical preferment; and, if a tradefman or mer-
chant, a good trade, and happy returns from fea, with great profi.~ To Al-
debaran; Frons Scorpii, Antares., Hircu~, Syrius; thefe are profpero11s di-
rections, and exalt the native infinitely, both in wealth and honour; he
proves of ~n ingenio1o1s, magnanimous., aud noble., mind; gains favour from
princes and noblemen, and authority over others ; becomes govel"nor over
an army, town, fort, or -caftle; and performs great aaions.with honour
and applaufe. To Rigel, Arifta, Regalus, Arthsrus, Fomahaut; thefe
are the b.eft directions that can ev« happen to any native, for they not
only raife him to honour, glory, renown, and wealth, to the enjoyment
of pleafure and riches, and to the favour of kings, princes, prelates, and
eminent ladies.; to power, authority, and dominion, with a healthful
CDnftit.ution of bodv ; but alfo crown him with an immortal name. To
Cauda Leonis, Caput Algol, Cor Hydra, extreme danger by reafon of
murder, robbery, or fome fudden death, from the hands of others; or
the native aRing the fame upon others; thefe are v.ery evil direaions.
To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Cafi:Qris, Genu Pollucis, Veatre Gemi-
ni, Cynofura, finifter humerus & dexter cubitus Aquarii, Lucida Vul-
turis, Scheat Pegati, Cauda Ceti Auftralis, lhew unto the native many
troubles, ftrife, contention, much dithonour, the lofs of tile favour of
f0me great or noble man, or eminent friend; gives the native many ene-
, mies, and much difconten.t. To Lucida Colli Leonia. Ala,Leonis, .t,.anx
Auftralis, genu et tibia dcxtra Ophinci, Deneb, Ultima in DorfQ Capri-
-corni, foreatew ftrife aod contention with ai)cieat men, lofs of efi:ate,
<,>r good name.; the falfity of eminent and ancient friends, with many
other troubles, if not imprif.onment. ·To the fecond ftar in ala Stniftra
Leonis, Lucida Perfei, Dorfo Leonis. Vindemiatrir, honour and preferment
among fcholars, · learned men, and governon of towns or cities .; it may
be the native may become mafter of a fchool in the country, or fellow of
a'college in the univerfity, or a magiflrate in a city or t<>wn corporate.
The fecond hoafe, its lord, or planets therein, to Ultima in aJa Pegafi,
Oculus Tauri Borea!is., Lucida pedis Gemin.i, in femore Leonis. thew aa ·
increaf.e of the native's ftJbftance. To the Pleiades, Hyade~, Caftor, Pol-
lax, Przfepe, lofs of fubiance and eftate by quarrelling, contention, en-
vious neighbours, kindred or relations, tedious and vexatious law-:-fuits, and
whoredom. To the Afelti, thefe are the worfr of all direCtions.. for they
No. tz. 3 M ugnif1
Digitized by Coogle
/
' I
' . ; '
·, .~ -:~~
-- "!' ~~
: -...~.-=-- ...
.., -~
AN ILLUSTR: ATION
lignify the confumption of an efbte, th0ugh i~ confified 0-f mountarns .oY
gold. To Cingula Orionis, Lanx Borealis, Axilla Sagittarii, .Cofna. Ca-
pricorni Auftralis, tibia de:xtra Aquatii, an .ill'crca,£e IDf fubftance, gr.eat-
gains, gifts, legacies,. and augmentation of wealth,. by the means of gf'eat
ladies and henou.ra-ble women. To. Aldebaran, Regulus, Fr.on& Scorpii,
Antares, Humer.us pr.recedens Ori.onis, Humerus fequens Oiioqis:. an aug-
mentation of fubftance by honours, prefecmen&s, or fome office or dig-
nity, by the mearrs of great and uoble perfons; by military perfons, &c.
To Arifta,. an increafe ·of fo:bllan~e by .means of the .church,. eccleliaf-
tical ;pcrfdns, .or to ecdc:fiaiftical preferment by ingenuity, indu.llry, and
honoura.ble women.. To Cauda Leonis,. an iocreafe o£ weahh,. but w.itb
much care, labour, and £orrow »·if the direction happen nea.r the dragon's.
tail, or the ·quartile or oppofi.tion of Saturn or 1\tlars,. it proves· almoft:
fatal to the native's eftatc. To Lucida M~xilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Gem11
PolluC'is, Ventr.e Gemini, Cynofura, an .evil and hurtful time, a- time of ·
lofs,. of cares, df forrows, troubles,. and \lex.~t.ioos,.-thc nati~e's efiate w.aftes.
he knows not bow. q'.o Lucida CoHi.Leonis, Ala Leonis, Dorfo Leaoi~
Lanx 'Auftralis, ·genu & .tibia dextra Ophinci, Deneb, Ultimo in dar,fo
Capricomi,. finifter ·humerus .& cubi,us dexter Aquar.ii,. g.ain by houfes.,.
lands,, inheritances, ·by "buying and felling of them, &c. ¥Ct with caJe,.
pains, induftryt; and mu.cih labour.. To Hircus: this thews gain by mar-
tial men and things, arts, fcienccs,.and the like ; if the direCtion falls in.'
the -thi~d,. by ·kind:ted,. ncighboun, Jpiends,.tra\lels,. religious aff.air.s, &c..·
The Sub to the laft ftar in.Ala ~gafi, ·oculus 11'aur~ Borealis, Lucida.
Pedis Gemini, in femoJe Leonis., thew.s the beginning of good fo11tune,.
martial command, a'A:.d warlike horrour ;·, but in.tb!=·end the nativ.e lofos .aU
again. honou-r., dh,c, .anti libetty. T.o .the Pleiades, Hyades, Caftor,.
Pollux,. Pt·a!fepe,;dangerous·and. v.iolent.di{eafes, conun.tions., .quar.rellings,.
·he £ommits murders, t:lpes,. or other irtfolencies.; -he wiU. be in.dang.er of .
death by ·ihe iliot of a gun,. 'the caft of .a ftone, or a frab, .or may be be~
headed, or b:tli-iiletl, or wr-eaked-; I .ha\te known. thefe dire.itions..to caufe.
'
viclent fevctrs; anri Sol -to the Pleiades,. a peftilentul aifeafe of which the:
natru aft-eF'Watds died ;-. bu.t to PrrBJepe, danger of beiug .murd.er.ed ;. to.
the Afelli,. ficknefs, ·and lbarp b-urning fevers ; in. dang~r o£ fire;.. lofs .of
:hon.ottP .anti f0rtttnc;. mifchiefs from tnattial.:men.. ;. the native may he i_n. .
danger. of hanging, beheading,. or imprifon~ent.. To Cingula Or·ionis._
Lanx Borealis,. ~xilla Sagi:ttarii, Cornu.Capricorni ·Auftralis,. tibia.dex-
tta. Aq_uarii~- thefe iignify :jl noble,. ·healthful,. pleafant,. and profitable,.
time, and all t-hings go according to the nativ.e's ·delire.-.To Al-.
deharan,. Reg~lus,. 'frons Scorpio, ·Antares,. Humerus precedens ,~ .
f.el!ucns Orionis :: thefe ditettions prefag~ ·fieknefs to. the. native, it_.
rD1¥f·
Digitized by oogle
· 0 F A S T. R 0 L 0 G Y..
may·be rome violent or putrid fever~ they often exalt him to the. top of
bonour and pr~ferment. but make him faaious and proud, and thereby en-
danger. the lofs of all his happinefs. To Arifta: this ccr~ainty gives the
.llltive eminent honours, with a great augmentation of his fortune and
eftate.; if Arifta .culminates,. and the Sun comes to it by direction, it
1hews ecclefiaftical preferment, or fome eminent place under govern-
ment. To Cauda Leonia, though no very good direaion, yet it aug-
menu the native..s eftate, and raifes him to fome honour, but withal de- .
.ftroys it again, caufing mach melancholy, and difeafes from thence. To-
Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris,. Genu Polluc\s, Ventre Gemini,. .
Cynofura ~ thefe direaiom foreihew much evil co the native's body, ef- ·
tate, hono~r, and liberty; and betoken, if not the deftruction, yet the
injury. of them all, as ficknefs, lofs of money, fcandal, and danger ofim-
prifonment. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala Leonis,. Dodo Leonis, LanJt
Auftralis, genu & tibia dextra Ophinc:i, Deneb, Ultima in dorfo Capri-
corni~ Siniaer Humerus-, & Cobitus dexter Aq.uarii;. thcfe directions pre-
cipitate die natin's honour and credit, ~od make him go under many
evil reports, to hie great prejudice. To Hircus, it Olews martial prefer-
ment, honour in war, e:salts the native both in wealth and- dignity.
makes him ingeniout, and apt tG> findout many rare infCntions. -..
The Moon to the laft ilar in Ala Pegafi, Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lucid~\
Pedis Gemini, in fernore Leonis,. foi'Cthews a healthful time,.. with aug-
mentation of wealth and honour.. To the Pleiades, Hy~des, Caftoo, Pol-
lux, or Prafepe,. make the native fuft'"cr the fcandal of evil tongues,.
vexes and afHicts him with cr.ofs neighbours, Jaw-fuits. and ocher troU:.
bles. T-o ~the AfeJJi : ·thit direction afBicts the. body with many avils ;..
and',- if it-fall& near tbe oppo6tion of Saturn and M-ars,. or the Sun, it is
.much ifthe native be ·not blind ; or. ha¥e fome continual diftcmper in.
the eyes, or pains in the bead. To Cingula Otionis,,Lanx Borealis, Ax.. ·.
ilia Sagittarii, Cornu Caprieorni Aoftralis,. Tibia dcxtra Aq~arii, new
friends, the acquaintance of ladies and noble women, and gifts by.their
means. To Aldebaran, Regulus. Frons Scorpii, ADtares,. Humerus pre~
cedens ·& feq!JCnS Orionis ; thefe dil'ections forethew honour,. g'lory,.
renown,. and wealth.from the king ·and other noble perfon.s, giv~ the na-
t.ive a command over others,... and make him famous in his g.cmration.
To Ari&, honour,... glory,... and preferment both in church and ftatc, abe:
overco·ming of an a<J,yerfary ; dominion ·o~r the common people, anct
gain by them. To Cauda Leonis, gives honour,. and a good ell:ima-· "
tion.·11mong the vulgar, but withal threatens fcandal, lob,. and con-
tempt. To ·Lucida Maxilla Ceti, G~nu Ca.ftoris, G.enu Pollut.is,. Ventre:
Gemini~ Cyno:fura,··fcanda),. odium, and f(;orn even of the common-fort;.
the ill·will ~£ Come eminent lady or. W®lln..;. danger. of thieves., and..
. fuch.
Digitized by Coogle
:z5o A. N -~ L L U S .T -~ft~·A ~ r·~ 'N
fuch like perfon~. -To·Lucida colli Leonis; ala Leonis~ dorfo Leonis•
Lanx aufiralis, Genu & tibia dettra Ophiqci, Deneb, Ultima in dorfo Ca-
pricorni, finifter humerus & cu'11if-u_
s '~txter Aquarii; thefe are evil di- .
reHions, giving the native melanchbl."y difeafes, efpecialJy in thofe parts
iignified by the fign in whi~h the au.is ; he goes alfo· under fcandal and
reproach. To Hi-reus, is a very n~bl~ dire~ion, and may fignify the ad-
vancement of the native in all thing~•. chie~y in .miiiiary affairs; yet in-
-volves him in feveral vices and troubJes with women ; .and bids him .be-
\vare.of fome· fever~ wound by a faJJ,·~ blow, or il:ab. The fignificationa
"Ofthe.part. of fortune, being direaed _'in like manner, are altogether the:
lame with what we hinted in the _
direCl:ions of the fecond houfe. · ,
. •. ..
. ' .. .
· ln ~11 thefe&reCl:iGns we_ml~lbhave-great regard both ti> the fign and the
boufe. In direCtions which·-concer[\ the body, we have refpeet to the fign,
becaufe that moft commonly indicates tpe part affliaed ; fo alfo does rhe
h·oufe ;~or, if the direClioa falls in the afcendant, the affliCtion falls in the
head, as ·on the eyes, nofe, -
ears, or brain ; if in the fecond, in the throat,
..&c. · ;ln .direct:ion6 which concern the e.Ll:ate. honour, or fQrtun~ we
-chjefly take ·notice of the houfe, for that indicates.the means by which the
-thi~g thall be attained ; the natur.e -
of the ftar, the quality of the perfon •
.if. in the third, by a kinfm~n. or ~y travel; if in the feventh, by a wife,
«:.woman•
. 1n direaing any piaaei to thefe fixed ftars, confider wheth~r ~h~ ftar
lympathizes \Vith the f~gnificator .in nature and quality, or ~t; if it does,
._be direaion may be good, although it be to an evil frar; for.fweet to· fweet
is fweet.; like to like bre"ds no difcord ; an union and agreement ofnatures
takes away the. ev.il e-
ff'eas.; for, if the lord of the afcenda_nt was ;.Satuxn,
and he fhould be direaed to .Caud·a Leonis, a ftar of his own nature, this
.could be no evil direaion, nor any way _
afH_
ia the native either' in.bedy·
or eftate ; b1ilt wo-uld ha:v.e fampus and glorious ctfeas, both for health and .
wealth, according to .the .place it falls. in. .In thefe directions we arc
principally to regard tlle magnitude of the ftar; for ftars only,of th~ firft
magnitude prefage things eminently glorious . or dangcroufiy deft~uctive;_
and thofe which are·of the [econd.come very near them.. 1'hen: th_e pla~c.
<>f the direction is to be not~ ; for. if it fall~ in an angle, the direction .
will not only be famous and -eminent, but alfo manifeft itfelf with a great
.deal of life apd vigour, and that on a fudden ; i'n a fuccedent houfe, the
.effects will be more languid; in a cadent, not only weak andJlow, but it .
may be a queftion whether .they will ever operate at all. Regard muft
alfo be had to the latiuadc;_ foc ftan having foath latitude -· operat~ n~t :
{o much upon our northern hemifphere as . thofe which·have . north i\
thofe which have no latitude 1hew. their etfect, .be they good of. ev.il,.
1 : . ,with·
.Digitized by Coogle
•
0 F . A S T R 0 ·L 0 G Y.
wi.th llria equality; and thofe which have north latitude manifeft their
,force·with great vigour.· · ·
· The fign a]fo in which the fiar is pofited is much to be confidei:ed ; for
fixed ftars in ca~dinal figns exceed the others in power by fo much' as
, their plac.
e is more excellent and remarkable. And if a direet~on to ·any
eminent fixed ftar falls in fextile or trine to the places of a·ny of the·for•
tunes or of the luminaries, or coheres with any other eminent direCtion
at or near the fame time to the body or afpea of any planet of the nat~;~re
of the fame fiar, the effeCts will not only be indubitably .evipent; but
a)fo very ftriking and wonderful. . ·
The durability of their effect temains only to be confidered ; wherein
inuft be noticfd, whether there be·a continncd feries of direclions attend.
ing, of the fame purport and effect; for, if there be, and nothing contta•
d'itls their influence, the effects of them will, we may fafely conclude,
be durable and lafting. . ' ·
APHORISMS for guiding the JUDGMENT upon NATIVITIES and .
HORARY QyES1'IONS.
· Confider the degree aJcending, Sol and Lana;· and fee wh~tber they are
affiicted, or not; if they are~extremely afflicted, or either of them, it is an
argument of ilio.rt life, and therefore it will be in vain to form long di-
rections for fuch a nativity. Thefe points are faid to be afflicted or un- ~ y;.,
fortunate, when either the conjunction, quartile, or oppofition; of the Jj- 7r
infortunes vitiate their places, or when many violent fixed ftars of the
nature of the lord of the eighth afcend with the degree afcending or with
the luminaries. · · · · . · .
. Confider the lord of the afcendant alfo; for, if he be efl"entially .(l:rong,
freefrom the affiiCl:ion of the infortunes, not'combuil: nor retrograde, rio~
~mpedited ~y the lord of the fourth, fixth, eighth, or t~elfth, houfes, b'ut
encreafing in number, light, and motion, it thews long life. If the Sun
in a birth by day, or tht! Moon in a birth by night, be ftrong, free from
affiietion, and affifted by the fortunes, it thews long life; but thofe who
arc born exattly upon the very change or full of tbe Moon feldom live
lang; the Moon befieged between Saturn and Mars argues iliort life. .
. Tha.t plan~t w.hich has moft .Qignities e1fential -and accidental In a
figure.is the lord·of the geniture,. more efpecially if h~ be lord of the,
afcendant alfo•.
No. 13. 3 N The
Digitized by Goog~ e
252 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
The planet or planets in the afcendant are the chief fignificators ofman~
ners; but, if no planet be in the afcendant, then the planets from which
.the !doon feparates, or to which the applies, thall be the figniticators.
The fignificator of manoers in Aries, thews one witty; in Taurus, one
laborious; in Gemini, a lover of learning; in Cancer, inconfiancy; in Le<'•
fobriety and difcretion ; in Virgo, covetoufnefs; in Libra, inconll:ancy
and conceitednefs; in Scorpio, wifdom, fubtilty, and boldoefs; in Sagit-
tarius, valour; in Capricorn, Jafcivioufnefs; in Aquaries, complacency and
kindnefs ; in Pifces, a mere hypocrite.
1yiercury and Luna in conjunCtion, fextile, or trine, in any fign, thews
ingenious perfons; the quartile thews wit, but more turbulent; the op-
pofition lhews one feditious~ ftubborn, imprudent, and deftructive. Mer- .
cury in Taurus or Capricorn,·in a cadent houfe, and retrograde or com..
bull:, or affiicted by Saturn or Mars, thews the native to be fimple, and of
rude underftanding. Mercury in his own houfes, or in Aries or Aquaries,
in reception with Mars or Saturn, thews a lharp wit, and one of an admi-
rable invention. Mercury received of the Moon, either by ·houfe or ex-
. altation, gives a fertile ge~ius. Mercury in conjunction,· fextile, or trine,
of Saturn, fuews ~wary cqnftant wit; of Jupiter, an honeft up_
right mind;
of Mars, a confident opinion; of Sol, a proud heart; of Venqs,· a pleafant
wit; anG..of Lttna, a ready and piercing wit. · ·
· If many planets be ll:rong and effentially fortified, efpecially Saturn,
Jupiter, and Mars, .or Sol, the native will enjoy a manifeft and ample for-
tune, live nobly, and in great ell:eem, above the ordinary quality of his .
birth, managing the actions of his whole life with glory and fuccefs; and
this judgment will be more confirmed, if moft or all the planets be etfen-
tially fortified at the fame time. But, contrariwife, when moft of the
planets are in their detriment or fall, peregrine, cadent, retrograde, afflict-
ed, or combuft, the native is then continually involved in a thoufand mif-
fortunes, one upon the heels of another, and his whole life is nothing
but a vale of mifery. But a mediocrity.of tell:imonies thews a various for-
tune, fometimes miferable, fometimes extremely happy, according to the
times of evil or good directions. · ·
Saturn .hgnificator of fubftance lhews riches by building, hufbandry.
gardening; Jupiter, by the church, religion., government, truft, clothing~
Mars, by war, inll:ruments of war, law, forgery, or phyfic; Sol, by ho-
nour, command, ·office, dignity, or preferment; Venus, by friends, gifts,
or women; Mercury, by arts,. fciences, lea-rning, oratory, mercbandife;,
Luna, by navigation, by the common people, or women.
The
Digitized by Go·ogle
0 .F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y:
. The Moon fortunate in the afcendant gives wealth and eA:imatioo all
the life long. The Sun and Luna in trine, and he in his exaltation, free
Jrom the affiidion of Saturn or Mars, are ample teftimonies of a large
fortune ; the fame if Jupiter or Venus be in the fecond. The difpofitor
of the part of fortune in the eighth, or the lord of the eighth eifentially
fortified in a good houfc, promifes the native an efiate by the death of
friends. The Moon combufi, or in conjunCtion, quartile, or oppofition,
of Saturn, deftroys an eftate though never fo large, redu_
ces the native
to poverty ; the fame happens if the lord of the fecond be fo.
If the flgnificator of fubA:ance be eifentialJy fortified, well pofited, free
from affiiction, o.r in a fixed fign, the native's fubfiance will be firm and
durable all his _life. An infortune in the fecond, ftrong, iliews, that the
eftate may continue, but with great difficulty; butl> if weak, that it will
come to nothing ; if a fortune be there, the native's eftate will be firm.
If no planet be in the fecond, confider the lord of the fecond, and the dif-
pofitor of the part of fortune, and judge by them, and by their direCtions
to good or evil promiffors• . The fignificators of f~bftance oriental and
fwift in motion ibew the native will be rich quickly; but occidental, flow
in motion, or both, or retrograde, not till old age.
The Jords of the afcendant, and third houfe, in.good, afpe& or mutual
reception, thews concord among brethren, kindred, and neighbours, but,.
~f in evil afpect, the contrary. If Saturn or Mars be peregrine in the
third, or the Dragon's Tail be there, the native and his kindred will be at
perpetual variance, and by them he will receive many croffes and loifes!
If Saturn or Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, be in the third houfe, or in
conjunCtion, quartile, or oppofition, of the lord of the third, the native
lofes by travel, and will alway~ be in danger of thieves or robbers upon
_
the highway, and will have many evil neighbours.
The Sun or Moon in Via Lad:ea, afflicted with the conjunCtion, quar-
tile, or oppofition, of Saturn and Mars, or with nebulous ftars, portends
bindnefs, if both luminaries afflicted; ifthe Sun only be afflicted, it is
the right eye; if the Moon, the !eft. The fame if the Moon be in con-
junCtion, quartit(', or oppofition, with Sol or Saturn, with nebulous ftars,
or if Sol be in conjunCtion with Mars in the eighth•
. The Sun in good afpeCl with Saturn or Jupiter in a diurnal gen.iture,
or the Moon fo conjoined in a nocturnal, cfpecially in the fecond or fourth,
or if they have dominion in th<; fourth, fignify a good patrimony .to de-
fcend to the niltive, and an augmentation ot his paternal inheritance. But
the Sun affiictcd by Mars by day, or by Saturn by night, and not affified
by the fortunes o_r Luna by pight ; decreafing and affi1ded by Saturn or
2 _ · ... · Mars,
Digitized by Coogle
~54 A N I L 'L U S T R A T I 0 N
Mare, or both; or if the lord of the fecond, or the fourth houfe or ita
Jord, be aftliCled in like manner~ it thews the native will wafte his fatber'a
·eftate and bring it to notping. Th.e fame if Saturn be in conjunction
with the lord of the fourth in the twelfth; or the infortunes in the fourth
. in conjunction with the lord of the fifth ; fo it is alfo if Mars be in con..
junction with Sol, and peregrine. afflicting the fecond. · .
In a diurnal genefis, Sol and the lord of the fourth fignify the father,
and the Moon the mother; but, in a nocturnal, Saturn, with the lord of
the fourth, the father; and the Moon the mother. Now, if thefe behold
the afcendant or its lord by fextile or trine~ there will be a concord an.d
· love between the native and his parents; but, if by quartile or op-pofition,
much ftrife, difcord, and contention. The fignificators which caft the
beft or greateft afpec1 to. the afcendant or its lord iliew that the pcrfon
fignified by'them will lave the native beft.
Saturn ~n the fourth, in his l:to~fe or exaltation, direCt, fwift in mo-
tion, an'd in fextile or triae with Jupiter, Venus, or the lord of the fecond.;.
•the lord of tbe fourth in reception with either luminaries, and they in
'good afpea to the fourth or planets therein ; .thew an ample fortune by
managing quarries, mines of metal, coa~s, ftones, minerals, &c.
The lord of the afcendant in the fixth or twelfth, and he o.r the afce.n..
dant afBiEied by malefic planets, the\vs a fickly perfon. If the fign a_C..
cending and all the planets be in figos of one triplicity, the na-tive will
always be affliCted with 'difeafes of the nature and quality of that trigon;
if the fiery, with fevers and inflamma.tione; if the airy, furperftuities and
difeafes of tbe blood; if the watery, dropfy, and other watery difeafes,;
if~ eartJ;ty, confumptions, malancholy, and the like. .
The Sun in the fixth, feventh, eighth, or twelfth,. houfes, and afflicted
or afBiaiog the lord of the afccndant,. gives few years, with much fick-
nefs, and many afflictions. The Moon applying to conjunaion of Sol
ili~ws lean and infirm people, afHiaed with fuch difeafes as the _phyfician
can neither cure nor qifcover. The Moon affiiaed by the CODJUnd:ion,
quartile,_
or oppofition, of Saturn or Mars, in conjunction with the Dragon's
'l'ail in the afcendant or fecond, thews the falling ficknefs, or the native's
whole life to be fickly; and fixed fbirs of the nature of Saturn being join·
ed with the luminaries do the fame, m_
aking·the pet!fon alfo lean-and pale.
Mars in the af~endant ibews difeafes in the head-
, and fears and wound•
in the face; Saturn in the medium cmli, fudden hurts by falls, btuifes,
and the like, as alfo lofs of honour J but, in the afcendant, pains of tho
teeth. The Moon afflicted by the oppofition of Satl)rn, Man, or Mer- ·
~ory, thews Qladncfi or folly; the fame if Sacum and Mars be in partUo
op,OI.ition, or applying to it from angles.
· , If
Digitized by Coogle
G F · A S ·T: R 0 L 0 (f Y• ,, 2.55 .
.lf Mercury be lord of the fixth, or the planets in the fixth be firong, .
cfientially fortified, and in good afped: with the afcendant, or fecond, or
their lords, it fhews that the native's fervants will be honefi, jufr, and·
profitable to him ; the fame if the :fignificators be angular ; and fo con- ·
trariwife. A fortunate planet in the fixth or twelfth ihews good fervants,.
and profitable; but the Dragon's Tail, Saturn, or Mars, in the fixth, and.
peregrine, denote bafe, fordid, and thieviili, fervants. .. . .
Planets in the fifth; and the Moon .and Venus, or their difpolitors,free
· from affliCtion ; figos upon the afcendant and fifth, and figns in which
their lo~ds are, being fruitful, iliew many children ; the faqlC· .if Venus
or the Moon be in the afcendant; or Jupiter in the Jeventh. Jupher or
Venus, or the lord of the fifth, in trine to Luna, in humane or· fruitf"'l
figns ; all or mofr of the planets in fruitful figns, and in ~ood afpect to
the lord of the fifth, or planets therein, iliew a plentiful ilfue·. Saturn in
the fifth declares fiubborn and undutiful children; Mars, fuch as wiJI bo
bold and daring; but Sol in conjunction, quartire, oroppofition, ofSaturn
in the fifth or eleventh, iliews barrennefs; the fame if the lord of the fifth
be retrograde, or corpbuft, or in conjunction, quartile, pr oppofition, of
Saturn or Mars, and they peregri~e. Saturn or Mars, or both, peregrine
in the fifth or eleventh ; Sol in the fifth joined to an infortune; Sol, Sa..
turn, Mars, or Mercury, in quartile or oppofition of Luna in the medium
c~H; Jupiter in oppofition of Saturn or. Mars or both.; the lord of the
fifth in t~e eighth,. or twelfth; or in conjunction, ,quartile~ or· oppofition,
of 'Saturn or Mar.s ; .are all cer~ain arguments that the chil'dren will die. :.
In marriages, obferve the motio~ of the fignificators i for,· if they are
direct and fwift~ the native m~.rries ~rly .i but~ 'if. retrograde and ..flo\\;',
or fi~tion~ry,. they prolan~ the time very !muc~. .~he parti~ular tiqte-of
marnage 1s .d•fcerned by duect and conv_erfe duea1ons· of the ,rcenqant,
or medium ca:li, or their lords ; or the Sun or Moon to the conjunCtion,
fextile, quartile, or. trine, ~f the l~rd of the feventh~ or planets in the k-
venth, or by direCtions of the afcendant or medium .creli or 'th'eir lords
to the conjunttion, fextile, quartile, or tfine1. of Jupiter. Sol,. Venus,..or
Luna ; and, if any of them are in the feventh houfe, .or afcendant, con-_
jo.ined: to Jnany p~anets, t~y .iliew ~any wives·; .and.f~ alfo dc;>~s t~c-.Jprd
of the afcendant ·10 configllratton· With ~apy. Th~ Moon configura~ed to
one planet opJy, thews but one wife ; .and,...if the.Moon pc ftr.ongeft,.th~
~a_n out-lives hi& wife; bqt, if the planet with whom·the Mcxm is con-
joined be frrongeft, he ;<Lies fir~. . : ~ . . ; ,·· . · · ':· . ; ·
. . I . . . . f. ' : . ' ' • I . . I . . '\ ' • ' . •
.The M:oop_
.applying to Satu-rn, ~~117affected,. lhews a feriQus; lnduf-
t~•ous, faber, l~borious; WOillflll ; b~t, being ill-a1fc¢ted, ~ 'fulipicious,
No. 13. · 3 0 · . J "· • • •. • • crofs,
Digitized by Coogle
~56 A N t L L t1 9 T I{ A T l 0 ~
crofs, entJious, froward, woman, indolent and carelefs; applying to }ll;..;
pitcr well-affc:cted, a fober, hc.-aeft, godly, religious. 'chafte, and virtuous;.
woman, and a good houfewife; but, being ill·afft:Cted, the woman tnay
have ''irtues, but they are generally clouded ; applying to Mars welt.
affected, it thews one of a lofty, honourable, open, and generous, mind ;
_a true friend, yet fcorning to receive any afrront or injury, and one tha~
will detirc to be mafter ; but, being ill-affected, an e"Yil, quarrelfome,
protd, petulao:t, woman; applying to the Sun, being well-affdted, fl1ews
an. honourable and truly noble creature, full of generofity and humenity.-
atfdling high and gteat things ; bur, if ill-aft~ded, fhe will be idle;
vain, fooliili, proud, infulting, and domineering; to Venus well-aft~cted,
a beautiful, .fair, pleafant, civil, courteous, loving, good conditioned, and-
virtuous, woman ; but, if. m-aff'eCl:ed, the is an impuden't, bold, arro-
gant, prodigal, talkative, luftful, bafe, woman ; laftly, the Moon applying
tc> Mercury ·well.atfetled, thews a loving, neat, ingenious, pleafant, well-
1poken, careful, woman; but, if ill-affected, an intruding, prattling,
inconftanr, ditfembling~ turbulent, creature.
The lords o{ the tenth and feventh, orfecond and feventh in each others
houfes of the figure, or in mutt!al reception, lhew a good wife ; but the
_lords of the fixth or twelfth in mtrtual reception, or pofition with the
lord of the feventh, fhew a very mean, obfcure; ill-bred, woman. Sa-
turn or Mars in the feventh, v.
ery flrong, fhews a !OOd and rich wife,
yet h.er fu,bftance not attainable without trouble; if peregrine there, it
filews one of Jow birth, poor, and ill-conditioned·, if Jupiter, Sol, or
Venus, be the~e, the contrary. If the tignificators of man and wife be in
quartile or oppofition of one another, or in quartile or oppofition to the
Moo~, there will_
be many quarrels, and that upon very flight occafions ;
t~e ttontrary if they be in conjunaion, fextile, or trine, or in mutual re.
te~tion or pofidon; or if the MooQ makes any tranfiation between them
by good a(pett. The lord of the feventh in quartile or oppofition to Sa.
turn ·or Mars, fhews an evil woman, immodeft. and (hamelefs ; and, ifthe
lotd~ of the feventh be in the twelfth, although in trine with Venus, the
wo~an .wil~. profe .incohftant to her hutband.
·-IfMercuty and·Luna ·be in conjundion or reception, or the lord of
the ninth be in theafeendant~ or the lord of the afcendant be in the ninth,
·or Mercury or Luna-be in the- afcendant, third, or ninth, or mutual re•
ception of their lords, ·or conjuncHon with them, the native will tra-
vel beyond fca, or take many long journeys.- The 'Caufe of the journey
~.Ppean from the nature of the figoificator, and the houfe in which he is
p6fited·; ~f Satutn_be 1\g_nifi~~or, the ~ufe i_s fro~ fome inhcrita~e, le:-
gacy, e>r thibgs -and·coaunod1t1cs fatumme; 1f jup1ter, the caufe 1s_f~om ·
3 rel~gron,
-Digitized by Coogle
0 F. A. S T.R 0 L 0 G Y.
rdigiott; ecclefiafriC:al preferment, bonout:, or law; the like of the other
planets. If the fignificator be in .the afcendant, the native is polfdfed wiJ:b
!I natural defire of fc:cing ftrange countries; in the fecond, he travels for
a defign of· enriching himfclf; . aod fo of the other houfes.. .
Ifthe lord of the ninth b'e iQ the afceodant, the native will travel much;
if.in the fecond hou.fe, he will gain conCiderably by his travels ; if in the ·
third, he will cohabit with firange women, and often lhift his refrdence ;
'ifin the fourth, his parents will have fome occult infirmities, and he will·
tHe on his travels ; if in the fifth, he will have children in another coun- ·
try ; if in the fixth,. he will gain by. his Oaves or fervants, and his cat--
tle will fall fick in his. travels ; if in the feventh, he will obtain a good ·
and obedient wife. When the fignificators of journeys arc dfeotially ·
thong, well pofited, and free from affiidion, and in fextile or trine of·' '·
good planet, they denote honour, J>l:ofperity, and fecurity, in travels; guoJ
c~pax, according t~ the quality of the perfon J and contrariwife, if Sa-·
turn or Mars .afBia the _fignificators, it Chews, in the twelfth houfe, ·
danger of imprifonment ; in the {econd or third, treachery by kindred or
neighbours, or danger by -common thieves.; but, io this judgment, Saturn
ntcws rather poverty and want of money J ·Mars bodily wourid,. · The:
countries into which the native had beft travel, are chiefly thofe fubjea to
the figns of the afcendant, ftcond·; ·ninth, ·tenth, and eleventh ; or-thofe
figns in w~ich Jupiter, Venu-e* Part of Fortune, ·or Dragon's H~~d, are·
pofited; but thofe fubjed: to the figns in which the infortunes or· Dragon's ·'
Tail are pofited, will prove unfa-vourable to the'traveller; aad fo alfo_will
thofe that are fubject to the figns of the fourth, fixtb, feventb, eighth, .
or twelft~, houfc:s.
· Saturn, Mars; or th~ Dragon's Head, in th~ ninth, or saturn or Marsin
the third, oppofite ~o the ninth, Jupiter being peregrine, cadent, and af•.
flilled; lhews either pernicious feduies of no religion, or athcifts. -..But
Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's Head-, io che ninth, lhewsa truly .reli-
gious perfon ;' the .fame if Sol, Mercury, Luna, or Part of Fortune, be
there in fe:itite or trine with Jupiter .
or Vebus. lf no planets are in ~he:
ninth, confider iti tot"d and Jupiter;..if the.y or ejth~r of 'thell) be c1I'cu-
tia11y fortified and 1bl>ng, or -angular,. or in reception wi~h Sol or Luna~ .
or with the lord of the aftendant or planets therein, or ;pofited in the af-
cendant. the native will be truly pious, honcft, and reli1ious; a~d fo con-
trariwife. Saturn in the ninth,.e1I'entially.f\rong, ibew& ft.r.ong.zeal, cbaf.
tity, and faith ; Sol there, thews piety, and make$ an·e,~cll,epc preacher.
If Sol or Jupiter hath do~inion in the ninth houfe, or in the afccndimt,
-an~ hat~ ttignlttts ifi th~ plaaa of Mercur1 01 L\m~ .fl?.c w.~~. q~ ,the
native· wdl be likq onclcs. · : -.
'fhe
o.igitized by Coogle
·~ss AN ·I L L ·U· S 'T 'R A· T 1 ·oN
• The Jigriificators.of honour .in their houfes, exaltations, or mutual re,
ception or pofition with the ·tord of the afcendant, or angular, being al{o
free from affliction, befl:o~ on the natiye honour~' glory, truft, and com-
mand•. Jupiter, Sol, Venus, or Lun:~, in the me<liuw ,c<Eli, the fame;
more efpecially if they Are effentially fortified. The Sun and Moon in
.the degree of their exaltations, not aftllided,· lbew, quod cppax, the great-
eft preferment. ' The· light of time culminating, and in fextile or trine
with Jupiter and Venus, or· with the other light, thews great honour.
But. thofe who have neither of the luminaries angular, or in a mafculin~
fign, o; in fextile or trine of Jupiter or Venus., will all their days be ~b-
ject and poor; and of the vulgar fort.· . ;· , .
. - . . . . . . . . . . i.; . .
If the planet or planets which have dignities in Jhe places ofSol,. t,una,
or fign afcending, iliall be fl:rong and: efi"enti.
ally fortified~ and if it be
Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, oriental, or. jf it be v~.nQS .or Mercury oc-
cidental; the native thall raife himfelf,. though·. ]o~, to a vc.ry high
'COI)dition'. So ·alfo Sol culminating in Ades,. l,eq, or . Sagittar~us; or
Sol and Luna in reception, or in fextile, or trin~ .; or if t~~ Sun or light
of time be in·conjunt\ion with Aldebaran, Regulus, Arifta, Pleiades, An-
tares, Rigel, Hircus, Cor Hydra, Arcturus, -Fomahaut, or Marchab,
and more efpecially if tbofe ftars· culminate. 'lifo, the Sun,. M?_on, and
Jupiter. in trine with each other; .the Son :JDd ,MarS; .in ap~tual rec~~,tion,
or in trine from fiery figns; Jupiter, Venpl!1. an~ ~una, in,conjunctaon or
partile trine, efpecially in angles; Jupiter ~o4 Venus in conj'tlnelio,n in
any.angl~, but chiefly in the tenth, with the. D{ag9~'s H~ad .the~e:; ~~e.all
teftamomes ofeminent honour. ...(. :. ,,: ,.
The Sun in Cancer, the Moon in Scorpio in conjunaion with·Jupite~.
or ~n trine .with him from Pifees, are .'argumdnts ·Qf grqt pre(erm~nt• .
The Moori in 'the afcendant, near thef..ulJ, or in. oonjuntliq~, (c~ilC!, or ·
trine, with Jupiter, Sol, or Venus, or with·fixed ftars <>f theunature, and
. of the firft magnitude-, thews great encreafc of hQnour and preferme~e.
Sol or 'Luna· in conju"d:ion .with Regulus or Arifta; .or in.~onj~ncnon
with the'Dragon's H~ad and Jupitec in thc :tenth, :in tri~e H'f ·~~qi, 9f,to
Mars or Venus; will'rllife the·nati.vc from obfcurjty '~fit with prin<;~s~
WhatfoeVer prderment is fignified, ,if . S~turn )Of Mars rcall..th~·r quartil~
or oppofition·to :the tenth houfe, its lord, the Sun, <>;r Jupiter, it ,\f?ill 1,1~
loft again. If the lord·of thertenth:and afcendant· apply one t~ ,aw>th~r.
and are both oriental, and in their e1fential.fortitude5, th~ native will ,!;),
great, and be beloved. '.. . L : : ~ 1: ..11 , : l r l: :_. ; d : :. ; .· ; . ;. ;
, , ' • :... 1 • ' ' ' ' \ . ' • • I . 1 • • . • .; l • f
• .· • ~ • I • ! • J ' ~ 4 .• •• ; t I I ~! l, : . I. ! .. ' r1f...·• : . ~ ·l f i . ., J ! { ' . ~ r ...-' • i
· · ' 1Saturn in the tenth-never lets.· die:native~<bjO)'dhia : ~D'~~r 'Ploc:f P'~fer.~
ment long, but cafts him down headlong, when leal\·~peeted ; .frollf.
which
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y~
which deje4ip., he never rifes. The lord of the alcendaat in fextilc or
trine with the Sun. and oripntaJ, or in trine or·fextile w.i.th the- ·lord oi
th~ medium cmli, the native will attain to honour and.dignity, and be be-
loved of kings, princes, and noblemen. The lord of the afcendant in the
fign afcending, or in his own dignjties, he will rife to honour and efteem
by his own indufiry; more efpecially if he applies.to a planet angular and
in his own exaltation. The quality of the preferment is difcerned from
the planet or planets which apply to the luminaries,. or to which the lu-
minaries apply; if Saturn be that planet, preferment comes by means of
an efiate, inheritance, poffeffions, or favour of ancefiors; if Jupiter, by
means of virtue, honour, or learning, or honefiy, gravity, juftice, reli-
gion, or wealth. If Mars, by valour, or by merit as captain or general
in the army, or by being a phyfician, furgeon, chemift, &c. If Venus,
by courtlhip, pleafantnefs, or through the means of women. Jf Mer-
cury, by wit, judgment, oratory, or learning; by the law, merchandize,
&c. wherein alfo confider the houfe in which this planet is. If no planet
beholds the luminaries, or is beheld by them, then confider the planet in
the tenth, and the firongefi planet there, if there be many; if no planet be
in the tenth, confider the lord of the tenth, and difpofer of the light of
time, or that luminary which is either above the earth or firongeft, and
judge ut fopra, for if the planets lhewing the preferment be etfentially
thong, free from affliCtion, and affified by other planets in quartile or
trine. the native's honour will be permanent, otherwife not.
Mars in his detriment, and in oppofition to the afcendant, 1hews an un-
fortunate and infamous man. Mercury in quartile or oppofition to Sa-
turn, caufes an impediment in the tongue or fpeech; in conj~netion,
fextile, or trine,.to Jupiter, makes excellent orators, of great reafon, under-
fianding, and jufiice, and gives him great friends among churchmen and
lawyers i in afpea with Mars, he inclines to phyfic, furgery, chemifiry;
in quartile or oppofition of Sol, to coining money; in fextile or trine
with Luna, gives him a good underlbnding, and inclines him to the
knowledge of things to come, to arts and fciences, as philofopby, phi..
!..._1gy, mathematics, medicine, &c. if her application be in Virgo or
Scorpio, the native proves a lover of the mathematics. Mars in afpeet
with Sol, gives the native power, authority, and magifiracy, making him
famous. Jupiter, ol, Venus, or Luna, in the eleventh, eifentially forti-
fied, and in conjunCtion, fextile, or trine, with the lord of the afcendant,
1hews great and good friends, and contrariwife if Saturn and Mars be
there and weak. The Dragon's Tail in the eleventh always thews falfity
in friends, which is found never to fail; in the third the fame. Fortunes
ip the f1rfi, fifth, feventh, ninth, and eleventh, boufes, many friends; in-
fortunes in the twelfth or in angles, many enemies.
No. 13. 3 P Thofe
c gitizea by Google
J;.
26o A N I L L U S T R. A T I 0 N
· Thofe planets which are in· oppofitiQn to the.luminaries, lord of the af-
-cendant, or are potited in the twelfth houfe, fignify the native's enemies;
no planets in the twelfth or feventh, or in opp~fition of the luminaries,
.few or no enemies. The lord of the afcendant 10 the feventh or twelfth,
or the lord of the feventh or twdfth in the afcendant, argue many enemies.
Tbofe planets in feptima, or in oppofition of the luminaries, will difcover
. their malice openly; thofe in the twelfth or cadent, will aa their malice
c1ofe1y and cunningly. The lord of the afcendant either difpofing of the
fignificator of enemies, or much ftronger in effential dignities, and angular,
the. native overcomes all his enemies, and contrariwife. Significators of
enemies cadent, peregrine, retrograde, or combuft, argues mean perfons.
Either of the luminaries affliCted .by conjunflion, quartile, or oppoiition,
Saturn or Mars in angles, and difpofed of alfo by the faid infortunes, ar-
gues imprifonment; fo if Sol or Luna be in the twelfth in .conjunCl:ion
with Saturn. Saturn and Mars in conjunaion, out of their own digni-
ties, or dignities of the luminaries, the fame; the fame if Sol and Luna be
in conjunction in the eighth, in any fign, except Taurus, Cancer, or Leo. ·
The lorn of the afcendant combuft in the twelfth, imprifonment and ma-
ny farrows: in the tenth, death by fentence of a jud'ge: in the eighth,
forrows, and an infamous end. The lord of the afcendant in quartile or op-
pofition of the lord of the eighth, or any planet therein~ or in conjunciioa
with evil fixed ftars of the nature of the lord of the eighth, or in the
fourth, fixth, eighth, or tw.elfth, in conjunCtion, quartile, or oppofition,
of Saturn, .Mars, or combuft, and out of all his etre·ntial dignities, are
·all demonftrations of a violent death. If thefe configurations happen in
.·fiery figns, it may be by beheading; in airy figns, hanging; i"' earthy figns·,
by falls, blows, or the like ; in watery figns, by water or drowning; in
angles, the death will be more honourable; filccedenr~ by accidents •
in cadent, very ihamefuJ. If the figniijcators of manners ·be with Ca-
·put Medufz, the native wiJrbe of a violent ·nature, even to murder·or be
murdered; if with Aldebaran, he will be fierce an'd. given to warlike ac-
tions r if with the· Pleiades, he will be ambitious, turbulent.. and libidi-
nous; if with Cingula: Orionis, he will· be witty; of great underfianding,
and have a vaft memory;. if with Regulus, he will• be magnanimous.., no-
.hle, generous, and aiming at rule and dominion·; if with Antares, ·he
will be ralh, headftrong, without ru~e or government, obfiinate even to
his own deftruetion·; if with ;Hetc1l1~s~ he will be ra1h, bold~ impudent,
cruel, fubtle, crafty, with a thew of valour and honour; if with Arifia,
he is noble~ generous, and brave, of a gentle,. a~abte, and courteous, dif-
.pofition, juft, hon~ft, faithful, true-hearted; fiudious, and ingenious; if
with Lyr21, wanton and ·luxurious; but pr,etending to gravity and honcfiy;
if with Aquila, bold, confident; and valiant.· · · ·
3 · Saturn
.J
Digitized by Coogle
(): F A S 'F R 0 1:, 0 G Y.
Saturn oriental, or in the afcendant, gives aftature (ome~bat above the
middle fize; occidental, a mean ftature, inclining to brevi~. Jupiter ori-
ental gives a taU,. large,.and comely, perfon; occidental, middle lized, but
large boned and well fet. Mars oriental gives an indifferent large cor-
porature and {hong body; occidental,.one of a middle fize, ·but full body.
Sol .gives a large and comely corporature; V.enus oriental gives a tall,
ftraight, and fiender,. perfon; occidental, one thort and well fet; Mercury
oriental gives_acompleat,. tall, upright, and fleoder, body; occidental, one
low and fmaU. The Moon increafing gives a full, fat,.plump perfon,
inclining to tallnefs .s. decreafing, a fbort, low, fquat, body. Planets hav-
ing north latitude thew large and grofs bodies, but of a more dull and
lluggith nature; planets having fouth latitude fuew Jefs proportion, and
fuch as are nimble and a(live. Saturn thews a long vifage, fwarthy, black,
or tawny, and lowring; Jupiter, a fair, full, comely, vifage. Mars a full,
fun-burnt, or ruddy, vifage. Sol a full round face, high bold forehead,
and tawny complexion; Venus a fair beautiful vifage; Mercury accord-
ing as he is conjoined : of himfelf he gives a long fwarthy comple~don ;
Luna full-faced if increafing r. pale, wan, and long, vifaged, if near her
change. 1f Saturn is lord of the geniture, or in the afcendant, the na-
ti\'e is melancholy,. envious, fearful even of his own fuadow; if Luna
is in quartile or oppofition of him, he proves ambitious, and filJs his ful-
len-fancy with glorious conceits; bot, if Mars, it is much if he proves not
mad J if Mercury, an enthufiaft or diviner. If Saturn be in the medium ·
c~li, it deftroys the native's honour and fame~ though ever fo great, and
he ever fo deferving; fo much the more if he be in quartile or oppofition
to Sol or Jupiter; but, if Jupiter or Venus be there under fortunate di-
reaions, he may with much labour preferve it ; yet at laft it will be dt:-
.ftroyed. Saturn in conjunction with Luna in an angle, though the native
were ever fo rich, yet {ball he be reduced to poverty; fo the Dragon's Tail
in ·the fecond deftroys the native's eilate and fortune, be it never fo great,.
and he will be driven to many exigencies and wants ; and Saturn or Mars
retrograde, peregrine, and cadent, being in quartile or oppofi tion to the
-fecond houfe or its lord, makes the native perpetually poor. Saturn in or
lord of the afcendant in one man's nativity, being upon the cufp of the
feventh ih another's, forefhews perfect hatred, and the latter will be the
injured pcrfon. Saturn in the afcendant, in Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Ca-
pricorn, or Aquaries~ in good afpetl: with Mercury, makes fcl)olars and
learned men; with Jupiter, divines and lawyers; if he be in the eighth,
in a noaurnal geniture, he fore£bews a violent death. Saturn lord of the
feventh. makes. the native long before he marries; fcarcely before thirry,
unlefs Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, or Luna, be in the afcendant; or fome
of the other three, and the lo.rd of 'the afcendant be in good afpett of
Luna.. Saturn in quartile or oppofition with Sol·or Luna from angles,
por-
Digitized by Coogle
26! ·A N I t 'L U S T. ll A T I 0 N
. .
portetlfis blmdnefs; the fame if tbe luminaries be in quartile or eppofi•
. tion -of M:rrs.- Saturn in the imnm ·emli, a1tboogh in a fortuntte genefis,
forethews an evil end to the nati-ve, tholl'J;h he be a priace. '
. .
Jupiter 1ord ·Of the genitore, or'in the afcendant, makes the native of a
noble and brave fpirit, aiming at good and boneft things, without the .
knfe or kaft im~gination of evi-l.. But if either of the luminaries, or
Saturn or Mau, be in quartile or oppofition to him, he proves proud,
treacherous, and q peffed vilJain, who under the notion of fanCtity may
1hroud a thoufand enormities. Jupiter or Venus pofited in the afcendant
or medium ca:li, free from affliCtion, makes the native beloved of all forts
·of perfons. though his birth be ever fo mean ; and gives him a juft, up-
right, and honeft, foul. Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon:s Head, in the
· fifth; in a fruitful fig~, thews many children ; and, if Luna be in any good
afpect with them alfo, fue thews ftill the greater number.
Saturn or Mars in the ninth, and Dragon's Tail in the.afcendant, gene-
rally make~ the native an atheift in judgment, though a prieft by profef-·
fion. Saturn upon the cufp of the fecond, makes the native always poor,
let him have what affiftance foevcr; unlcfs he be eifentially fortified there,·
and in good afpcct of the fortunes.. Saturn and Mars in oppofition to
equinoctial figns, makes (if a king) a great tyrant; and, if they be in quar-
tile.with Jupiter, he may be an ohfcrver of law and r~Hgion, but it will
be for _his own ends. Saturn in oppofition to Luna, or Mars in oppofi-
tion to the afcendant, makes an abfolute knave and a traitor.
Mars lord of the geniture in the afcendant e1Tcn~ially fortified, makes
a courageous perfon, a good foldicr, furgeon, or phyfician, and one honour-
able in his profeffion. · Mars· ftrong in a nativity, and lord of the fc-
venth, in no good afpetl: to the luminaries or afcendant, the·native will
be unfortunate in war, controverfics, and law-fuits; for the feventh houfc
fignifies his enemies, and in this refpect they will be •oo powerful for
him. 'Mars in the medium ca:li brings fcandal and dilhonour to the
· native in many things, whet~er he defervea' them or not. Mars in· Aries,
Scorpio, or Capricorn, in thcafccndant of a nativity, makes the native .in-
vincibie; and this more efpecially if he be in good afpcCl of the lumina-
ries, or planets dfentially fortified. Mars in conjunction, quartile, or
oppofition, to Luna 11nd Saturn, in the fame afpeet: of Sol from angles,
filews a violent death. If fo pofited in violent hgns, though out of an-
gles, the fame• Mars and Sol in the fecond houfe, c1fentially fortified, the
native may have a good eftate, but will have ways enough to fpend it; but,
if th~y be weak, peregrine, or lffiitlcd, the native will be driven to want.
Mars
.
.. DigitizedbyG ogle
0 ., AS T .R 0 L..~ ~.·
Mate and Sol in.afcendant, in aereal or fiery figns, make prou~{f.orn­
ful, prodigal, perfons, conceited of themfelves. _M_ar~in ~tion to
Jupiter or Venus dellroy& the i1fue of the n,ative, tijltfgh ever fo great and
numerous.
Sol lord of the geniture, or fl.rong in the afcendant, makes the native
aim at fovereignty, rule, and dominion; who, quod capax, will b~ very.
famous ; the fame if Aries, Leo, or Sagittarius, afcend, and the Sun be
firoqg and in trine with Jupiter. Sol in the afcendant makes a great
boafter and very proud perfon; Mars there, denotes a notorious· liar, ro-
mancer, and inventor of fables, and a contriver of mifchief, given over to
perjury, violence, and cruelty. Sol pr Luna in quartile or oppofition to
Saturn or Mars from angles, chiefly the medium creli, thews a violent
death ; if to Mars on1y, and in humane fig ns, the native will be flain· by
the hands of his enemies; if to Saturn, he will either have a great faiJ.
be imprifoned, or fiarved to death in a prifon. Sol and Luna affiicted in
watery or airy figns aflliH the native greatly with the gout. Sol and Lu-
na in conjunction of Venus in Cancer or Capricorn give the native a great
fancy and a large underftanding. If Sol, Luna, or the mediuin creli, be
diretted to the conjunCtion, fextile, or trine, of Jupiter or Ven_us, the na-
tive, if in years, generally marries. Sol, Luna, or the afcendant, being
Hyleg, direCted to the conjunHion, quartile, or oppofition, of Saturn, and
the direction being in Aries, Cancer,. or Leo, the native rarely efcapes
death whc=n thefe direCtions come up, becaufe thofe f~gns reprefent the
mofi vital parts· in man's body, and Saturn in the oppofite figns has moft
power to do mifchief. Sol and Mercury in conjunHion in the third or
fourth makes the perfon fkilful in occult arts and fciences. Sol, Luna,
or the afcendant, in a geniture of iliort life directed to the Dragon's Tail,
generally proves mortal.
Venus, lady of the geniture, or {hong in the afcendant, makes the na·
tive a great lover of pleafure, of an upright, · juft. honeft, _
heart; but, if
{he be weak, and afflicted by Saturn or Mars, the native is libidinous,
fenfually and bcafiiy inclined, and will be afflicted with venereal dif-
eafes. VeAus and Mercury in conjunCtion in Gemini, Libra, or Aqua4
, ries in the afcendant, in trine with Jupiter in the ninth, make great
fcholars, and learned men. Venus and Mercury pofited in the medium
creli, either in Aries, Gemini, Virgo, or Scorpio, make the native very
eminent in arts-and fciences. Venus in the afcendant, and Mercury lord
thereof, ·in reception with her, denotes· a good underfianding, and a wor.
thy honefi man. V_
entl6 pofited in the medium cooli makes the native,
whether man or woman,. marry very advantageoufly.
No. 13. 3 Q_ Mercury
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
Mercury lord of the geniture, or fl:rong in the afcendant, gives the na..
tive an admirable fancy and great elocution; if he be in good afped with
Luna or Venus, or in reception with either of .them, he proves a famous
orator; if in good afpeCt or reception with Saturn or 1upiter, he makes
an excellent philofopher or divine; if with Mars, ·a good phyfician, fur.
geon, or mathematician. Mercury in cafimi, aod in his own dignitier,
makes the native a great orator, or fubtle counfellor, in the eQ:imation of
all men. Mercury in fquare or oppo(ition of Mars gives a lharp, but
a turbulent and troublefome, wit and undedlanding; one never content,
but always feeking out new things and firange inventions. Mercury in
an angle in Pifces, affiifted of Mars or Sol, and the Moon ~n an angle,
· affliCted of Saturn, makes a fool or a madman; for thefc: configurations op-
prefs the brain, and reprefent a thoufand fancies. Mercury in Cancer, re-
trograde, in fq uare to Mars and 1upiter, and they in oppofi tion to each
other in the nativity of a diYine, makes a great enthufiaft. If Mercury be
afflicted by Saturn in thofe genitures where Cancer, Scorpio, or Pifces,
afcend, the native is either dumb or has a very great impediment in
his fpeech; the fame if Mercury be with the Dragon's Tail; if affiieted hy
Mars in fuch a genefis, the native frammers very much. Mercury free
from affliCtion in genitures where Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Sagittarius,
or Aquaries, afcend, gives the native a graceful (peech and an excellent
elocution. Mercury and the Dragon's Tail in the afcendant in Libra, and
the Moon in Aries in the feventh, make the native a promoter of fcandal
and falfehood. Mercury in either of the houfes of Saturn gives a found
underfianding; and, if he be in fextile, trine, or reception, of Saturn, the
native comes into great repute by his ingenuity. Mercury in the houfes
of Mars, in good afpeCt of Luna and lord of the afcendant, gives an ex-
cellent undedl:anding.
Luna being lady of the geniture or firong in the afcendant, the native
lovt:s novelties, is fubject mutation, and defirous of travelling to fee dif-
tant countries; of a gentle nature and difpofition, and timorous; if lhc be in
afpect with Mercury, ,the native will be mafier of many languages. Lu-
na in conjunCtion with the Pleiades, and in quartile of Mars from an
angle, lhews great defeCts in the eyes, if not total blindnefs. Luna in
conju1.1Ction or oppofition of Sol i~ any genefis, ·lhews that the native
will live but a lhort time; unlefs the Moon has great latitude; for that
fometimes may make the conjunCtion or oppotition eight or nine degrees
difiant. Luna in conjunCtion of Saturn in a-
n earthy fign, and an earthy
fign afce-
nding, makes the native very melancholy and low-fpirited. Luna ·
in reception and trine of Mercury gives a good underfranding, and makes
the native able to overturn the arguments of moft men. Luna in the
twelfth, in quartile to- Caput Algol in the medium c~li, thews lofs of
2 honou~
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
honour, if not captivity, or death in prifon. Luna in Via Combufta, and
Sol in ·Via Lad:ea, denote great danger to the eyes; if the infortunes be in
the ·afcendant, or in oppofition thereto, it prefages blindnefs. Luna, SoJ,
or the afcendant, directed to the conjunCtion of Mars, fhew the frnall- ·
pox or meafies in children ; in men it denotes malignant fevers; and, in
elderly people, death. Luna in good afpecl of the almuten ·of the medium
c~li, and in the fame -with the lord of the afcendant, gives the native
eminent honour. Luna or Sol, or both, or the afcendant, affiided by
the body or parti1e afpeet of the infortunes, denotes that they will be of. .
avery fhort and fickly life.
Fixed fi:ars of the firft or fecond magnitude in the afcendant, or medium
c~li, give the native extraordinary fame and honour, make him eminent
and profperous, and one whom the world will admire. Fixed ftars of a
violent nature, upon the cufp of the medium c~li, and its lord pofited·
with {uch, thew defi:rutl:ion to the native's honour and fame. Fixed ftara
are to be confidered, in general pofitions or direCtions, in refpeet _
of their
afpects, as well as the planets.
The medium c~li affi.id:ed by the Dragon's Tail, and both the lumina.
naries affiieted by Mars, in a violent fign in the fourth, fl1ew a wretched
end, both to the honour and life of the native. The medium cceli we11
fortified gives the native not only great honour, but fuch as lhall be fixed
and durable ; though fometimes upon bad direet·ions it may be fubjeet
to interruptions. 'I he medium creli directed to promittors never kills,
unlefs in the genefis there be figns of a violent death.
All the planets, or moft of them, above the earth, make the native,
of whatfoever capacity, eminent and famous beyond it; and, if they lhall
be fo pofited in their dignities, he Dull, Jike a comet, out-!hine all others
in the place where he lives. All the planets in a nativity retrograde, and
under the earth, though the native be of great and noble birth, lhew him
not of a rifing, but of a falling, fame and fortune. The lord ofthe afcen-
dant ftronger than the lord of the feventh thews the native alwJys over-
comes his ad\'erfaries, and fo contrariwife. Aries, Leo, or Sagittarius,
afcending, and the lord of the afcendant in the medium creli, lhews
the native will always be aiming at things beyond the capacity of his
birth or prefent fortune.
The inferior planets many tin1es fhevv great honour to the fame of a
· native, but will not be of long continuance. The fortunes in the ninth
make famous churchmen, lawyers, and rich merchants; the fame, if the
benevolents trine the ninth or lord thereof. Many planets in the ninth,.
in
. / -
Digitized by Coogle
~66 · AN ILLUSTRATION
I ~ .
in the nativities of any clafs of perfons, gives them the higbefl: honour and
dignity in their pr~feffion. If Virgo afcend, the native is generally very
ingenious, unlefs Mercury be in Sagittarius or Pifccs; and then the native
is generally confident and conceited of his own abilities, though a mere
fool. The lord of the medium c~li in the twelfth, and the lord of the
twelfth in the afcendant, denote captivity or imprifonment ; the like if
th~ Moon or lord of the afcendant be pofited in the twelfth. The greater
t·he planets' dignities ar.,e,the more fplendid and glorious are the native't
honour and fortune ; the greater their debilities, the more o}lfcure will
be his. If the medium creli be directed to the body of Satura, he being.
pofited in the tenth _or eleventh houfe, the native will lofe all his honour
and offices, and will fcarcely ever rife again to preferment ; and, if in fuch
gene/is there be fignifications of a violent death, the aforefaid directio01
puts an inglorious period to the native's life.
A cont_inued feries of good direCl:ions make a bad nativity fometimes
very good ; but that good lafts not long. Two, three, or more, planets·
in the eighth, upon good diretii<?ns unto them, encreafe greatly the na-
tive's fubftance by wills and legacies of the dead. The eleventh houfe,
fortified by the prefence of good planets, thews many great and powerful
' · friends, but, by" the prefence of evil p1anets, and they ill-aff'eEl:ed, it
thews few and faithlefs friends. The lord of the eleventh ftronger than
the lord of the feventh declares the native's friends to be more powerful
than ·his enemies. .
All the planets under the earth, when they promife honour, dignity,
anQ fortune, which is chiefly when they are eifentially fortified in noc-
t~Jrnal genitures, generally perform it in the latter part of the native's life,
All the planets in a nativity out of their effential dignities, thew obfcure
perfons ; who, if they ever attain any honour, glory, or renown, in the
world, never long enjoy it. A fortunate planet in the eighth houfe always
denotes a natural death; the lord of the eighth in the medium crelifbews
the native will die by the fentence of a judge. Such as have a fatellium,
or croud of planets in angles, have at tome time or other of their lives
prodigious fuccefs or detriment,· according to the oc.curing direfl:ions.
Many planets in reception, or in good afpel:l of each other, give the native
.many and good friends. Planets fquaring or oppofing ead1 other from
angles and cardinal figns denote great misfortunes 'to the native, and that
at lafi: he (hall die a violent death. Cardinal figns poffeffing the angles of
a nativity make the native, if of any capacity, moA. eminent and famous in
hisgeneration, and to do fuch acts as that after-ages thall admire him~ Di-'
reClio~?s to the bodies or afpeas of planets the defcending part of heaven, ·
although they' denote the greateft happinefe, yet it proves not very durable•
. - · · In
· Digitized by Coogle
p F ASTR' O.L -OGY.
r
1n a feminine genefis, the lord of the feventh being pofited in the af-
·cendant, makes her govern over her hll!band ; and if the lord of the
afcendant be a fupcrior planet, and the ftgn thereof commanding, G1c will
·he a great virago, and bettor over him. Allowa·nce is many times to be
given in the mcafurc of time in direttions, when tranfits of weighty pla-
nets, contrary to the nt\turc of 'the direCtions, fluB near that time occu~r~
for good and evil directions may be either anticipated or continued by the
force of the tranfits. Some perfons, although they have bad genitures,
rife wonderfully, becaufe their gc:nitures fympathize with the nati·
vitic:s
of thofe by whom they are raifed. The greatc!l fympathy that can be in
any two nativities, is by having the fortunes in one upon the places of
the luminaries in the other~ and the luminaries in the latter upon the
places of the f<?rtunes in. the former. _
The ~reateft a_nti~at~y is, whctre
the infortunes m the one 1>offefs the places ot the tummanes m the other;
.and the luminaries in the latter poffefs the places o~ the infortunes in
the former; the fame happens if the lord of the afcendant in the one be in
oppofition to the lord of the afcendant in the other, and fo contrari-
wifc. The lord of .the afcendant in the radix in conjund:ion with the
lard of the eighth, in the revolution, and in the eighth houfe, will be
very dangerous to the life of the native.
. ' .
_ Mercury peregrine, and in detriment or fall, retrograde or combuft,
in quartile or oppofition of Luna from angles, flow in motion, cadent, or-
in via combufta, or affiicted by Saturn or Mars, lliews the native not to
be wife, but rather ftupicJ, and dull of underftanding, impertinent, trou...
blefome, a diffemblcr, and very filly creature; but the quartile or op..
pofition of Mars and Mercury caufes a turbulent and unquiet wit, and -
makes the native the author of many inventions.
RUDIMENTS of the DOCTRINE of HORARY QYES'{IONS.
Let the radix be drawn into a fpeculum, and, being fu11y and cotn.;;
pleatly directed with obfervations of all the current tranfits, Graw forth
the revolution alfo of the year. Then, confider the.matter about whiCh
the queiHon is propofed, whether it be tranfient or durable. Confider
alfo to what houfe the thing belongs, what planet is the fignificator
thcre<;>f, the afcendant and its lord, and the planets which may confirm,
impede, or defiroy, the bufinefs. What planets arc hurtful to the fignifi-
cator of the thing, and confequently to the qucrent, which are fuch as
the lords of the feventh or twelfth houfe, or fuch as are in quartile or
oppofition to them in the radix. Then if ,the lord of the afcendant come
by dired:ion or tranfit to the body or good afped: of the lord of the houfe
fignifying the thing, or planet pofited therein ; or they cootrariwife to
No. 13. - 3 R · the
Digitized by Coogle
.~~8. , .j A l-J .I L ~ tJ S T R. A T I 0 N · .
tllc g.Q.Od a.fpr& .~ tile kltd of the afcendant, tae..-ma.tter 1hal1 come ·to-
pafs, ~r u~ke· eict\. So .if a planet by dired:ion or tranfit hath latdy
feparated (roca the figaincators of the thing, and immediately app-lies
to the. ~onjund;~, fe¥til¢, or trine, of the lord 'of the afceodant, or pla-
net therein, it ~Aews· the fame. If the fignificators of the thing, or lord o.f.
.the fourth fJOm the h~ufe fignifying the fame, lhall tranfit the afcendanr,..
or ~ome by direction. thereto, ·it (hews good. ,If the radical and revoJu.-
tional figni.6cators apply .by good afpeet: in the Ephemeris: or arc in
·reception, or another planet makes a tranfiation or collection of their.
ligb.t, it fuews the perfetl:ion of the matter. If the aforcfaid tranfits o~
direaioos happen t.o be in mutual reception to th~ ·lords of their radical
plm;es, it fuews fo much the more eminent good. And, whether the fig.. .
nificator~ be ftrong or weak at the time of the di.reClion or tranHt, if.
they were fl:rong in the radix, their fignifications will be the more firm.
lf aoy planet colletts the light of both fignincatera, and at tbQt time tran-
fits tbc afcendant or houfe 6gnifying the thing, it pcrfetls the matter.
The fame if by djr~ion or tranfit they come to ooc another"s places io.
the reldix, or to any eminent fixed.ftar. upon the cufp of the eleventb
houfe, or mediurJJ .cceli,. · Confider what houfe the planet which tranf-
Jates or colJeB:s the light of the fignincators is lord of. and pofited in.,
for according to the nature of the things fignificd by tbofe hou(e$ aiall
the matter terminate. If the Sun• Moon, or Part-of FOrtune, tranfit tbe
medium cceli, or houfe fignifying the thing•. or come thereto by ·direc-
tion, it fignifica good. Uut, if there be neither direction nor tranfit,.
nor figqifica,ors of good or evil. i.t it rcquifitc to fufpend judgment to a
future day. · ·
Ifit be a weighty and durable thing_
which i• dclired~ it will {carcely
be performed .without a good direction or tranfit ; y,et you may judge
ther~f, according to the. next that come~ as it· is either good or e"il.
But, if the oppofite evil to what we have ftated 1hould happea, then judge
of it by the contrar1 rulo; but, if both good and evil happen, judge ac-
, cording to the more weighty and greater number of teft,imonies. And
whatfoever we have faid of the radix, if the fame.configurations happen
in the revolution; they import thefame, but not with fuch powerfuleffeC):.
· Laftly~ confider to what points in the revolution the 'radical tignifi-
catora approach by tnnfit or direCtion; or contrariwifc, to what points
in the radix the n:volutional fig~ificators apply; and accordingly, as .it
is- either good or evil, join all with the other configurations aforefaid.
and ac:cordingll judge. .
RUDIMENTS
Digitized Gy·Google
ltODIMENTS of the. DOCTRINE of RADICAL ELECTIONS.
If any thing &·e really intended· to he obtained, the tfmc of the be-
ginning and undertaking thereof ought to · be eleCl:ed from the radix
of life, and nothinB elfe. For at that time, once for all, the great God
deput~d ever}" fignificator to a- cer_tain purpofe or fignification, and firmly
efiabhfued the fame,.forever unalterable by-the power of nature.· There-
fore~ in making an election, firft. correctly learn what. planet i~ the true
and real figniticator of the thing· defired, for without the true knowledge
11bereof all' is in vein; tecondly, confider the nature and quality of the
thing, whether. it be proportional to ·the- capacity Qf him· who deures it,.
or.impoffible•
.Confider·alfo to what houfe of 11enen the fame doth· appq_
tain, and
what e~ioent fixed ftart were upon or near the cufp tbCTeof, 'and what
planets is· the radix beheld it by friendly·afpea. Note, likewife the-re-
volution,. what figJJ•ia upon·the cufp-of the fame boufe~ what p1anc;t is
lord thereof,. or beholds it by· good afped.. Confider the protni1for, .or
planet_.. or houfe fignifying that'or them, by or from ·whom the thing ·
hoped for is to be obtained :or pcrfotmcc:t. Then ·confuJer in every elec-
tion the fOurth houfe,. from the boufc fignjfying the thing. its·lord, and ·
pl=anet: po.6ted (if.any be)..·therein;. for that·hath fign'ification of tbc end
of the matter.. . , . · .
Let the mdix be- direaed witb.a-fpcculum completely fitted. thereby ·
readily to obferve,. with a: glance of the eye, all the tranfiu of every
fignificator, whether good or evil.. This done, obftrve at what time the
'gnificators come by dired:ion ortranlit to the body or good afpetl of the
promi1for in the radix,. or to the lerd ·Of the fourth. ·or·planet pofited
therein, or.eminent fixed ftar of the nature·of' the promitfor, ·or at what
time there is any tranOation made by· the promi1for, Sun, or Moon, by
good afpeit,. to·the cufp of the afc:endaot; ,lord thereof, or planet pofitec:t
tberei~ ;. u alfo at what time in the Ephemeris they come to any. good
afpe8_. and make your elcaio'n for·.the fame accordingly.· .
Obfenre wbcn thote radical fignifi~atora come. by direltiorr or ~ranfit
t• the body or good afpca of the aforcfaid revol~tional promi1I'ors.- ,
Ob.ferve alfo when ·the cufp of the fourth from the houfe fig~ifying the
t~ns,- or its· lord; by dirediion or tranfit comes to t~ body or good
afpett ef the afoendant or its lord, or tranfiatea the light of the fignifi-
cator or promHfor thereto; or comes to the houfe or lord thereof ligni-
fyiAJ dae thing. Note alfo; when the, revolutional figni6cators come
by tranfit to the body or good afpcet of the afore~id promifi'"ors, whet_her
3 rad1cal
Digitized by Coogle
2.,0 ·AN -I~L·L·U·S·T-R 1\ T ;I~ 'N
radical or revol.utionat. and whether there be no evil dircaion ortranfit at
abe fame time, neither· radical or revo~utional, ·accompanying the afore-
laid coafigurations. ·
Le·t the fignificator~, hut efpecially the promi.trors, he·effi:atiallr forti-
~e~, or in. conjuntl:ion,;f~xtile, or ttine, with their pla~es in the-radix, if
poffible. ·Let the med-ium c~li in the. radix, as alfo the .Sun and Moon
and lord of the eleventb, be free from all afflidion, and haftening by di-·
r~Cl:ion_ pr tranfit to fome good configuration. And Jet ·the fame fign .and
degree if pofiible afcend, at the undertaking, which did in the radix, for
then the ftgnifi_cators are the fame ; if that cannot be, let thofe upon the
cufp of the· houfe··fignifying the thing, afcend ·; or.let the Sun or Moon
be pofited in the houf-.: lignifying the thing, taking heed that the radica.l
i.nfortu.nes anay be. cadent if poffible, and nQt angular. ·Obferve if there
be any' reeeption between the radical fignificators and promitfors ; the
fame obferve in. the revolution ; or whether the radical and revolutional'
~gnj6cators are in receplion one with another at the ·time of the direCtions
or t~nfit_s, for that is very promifing; and thofe afpeC1s only are pr~pi·
tious to make eleCtions in.
Lafily, if the radical fignificators be weak or unfortunate, ·there,caa
be no- ftrong or firm election made for the native ; for what good· can be
expeeled to proceed from weak, afflicted, impotent, and unfortunate•.
promi1fors or helps? It is true there may be an accidental good, but that.
never can overcome the power of an c1fential or radical evil; yet, if an
elecl:ion be made for fuch a one, let the fignificators be e1fentia11y llrong
at-the time of the eleCtion, and if poffible in trine to their radical places.
Now, if the exaa time be required in which any thing fignified lhould.
come to pafs, that muil: be found by the direction of each fignificator to
their refpet\ivc promitfors both by progreffive and converCe operation; or
by drawinga fpecutum for the mundane afpects, which will at firft fight
point out the year, month, and day, in which all the material accidents of
human life 1hall·appear, and be made manifeft. Ifyou would know how
many children the native fuall have, you muft have confideration to the
fifth, feventh, ninth, eleventh, firfi:, and third, hou{cs, for thefe lignify
the native's children, for, as the fifth from the afcendant fignifies children,
{o it fignifies the firfi: and feventh child ; the feve~tb fignifies the fecond ·
child, for it is the houfe of brethren from the fifth; the ninth .figni6ea ·
the third .child, becaufe it is the third from the feventh, and fo. in like
01anner the eleventh.fignifies the fourth child; the firft, the ·fifth child J
the third, the fixth child; the fifth, the feventh child as aforefaid ; the
feventh, the eighth child; and fo on. The fcx of the infant is difcovered
by the nature of the fignificators.
. In
Digitized by Coogle
0 P A s ·T R o·L 0 G Y.
~ ,Ja regulating and afcertaining thefe judgments, the difcreet Aftrolo-
&ian muft J.ikewife underftand, that all tiery figns incline men to be cho-
leric, hafty, furious. quarrelfome, revengeful, proud, ambitious, impe-
rious, importunate, hardy, and ravifh; involving themfelves i.n many trou-
bles-and misfortunes; yet they are moftly ingenious, but often changing.. ·
their opinions·and purfuits.. . ·
Airy figns thew men ch~erful, a1Table, courteous, liberal, free-hearted.·
faithful, good-natured,_ and loving mirth, .fuch as finging, dancing, mu·:
fie, and afl civil recreations; of modeft deportment and manners, and..
of found ~eafon and undcrftanding. ·
Earthy figns denote perfons of referved thought, flaw in Jpeech,· antJ·
deliberate in all their undertakings, keeping clofe their counfel and in-
tention. They alfo frequently pr~ve to be very fraudulent, covetous,.
and fufpicious, fddom fo~getting or forgiving injuries; often forrowful
and low-fpirited; loving no man•s efteem but their own; for the mo~
part prudent and careful, but auftere andJurly. in .their manners anG.de--
portment.
Watery igl)s make diem·cowardfy, luxurious, wanton; mutable., dull~
and fiuggiili; with low, effeiuinate, whining voices., very timorous and
fearful,. having much deceit in them. They are ufually pretty much-
liven· to the febools and nut:fedes of Venus, which often prove a g~;eat ·
iojur.y to them., and !omcti&nC$: their total ruin.
It mull alfo -be remembered, that Saturn is extremely cold and dry~·
Jupiter .is remifsly hot and moift, Mars extremely bot-and dry, the Sun
is meanly hot and dry, Venus is hot and moift, Mercury is remifsly cold
and dry, the Moon is ·meanly cold and moift. If Saturn be in Aries, his
d-rinefs is ~ncreafcd, and his _
coldnefs abated., or. he is intenfely dry, or re-
~ilsly coJd; In Taurus he aas with a double force, viz. he is intenfely
cold and dry; in Gemini he is remifsly cold aod dry, in Cancer he is in- ·
tcnfely cold,.. fo that if Saturn afpea the afcendant from any -of .thefe-
tlgns, he varies ~his influence, according to the fign he is in. A planet ia-•
Jiis houfe, as the Sun in Leo, retains his own nature, and is well·affc::cted :
in his influence, but if in his detriment, as in Aquaries; he is then ill ··
afieeted or deprived. If he be only peregrine, he is meanly affech:d as to
good or evil, viz. neither ctfentially ftrong nor weak; if _in his·fall, he
11ags in his: motion, and is a man indifpoied and unea(y. Therefore a
planet in his fall or detriment eft"etls no good to the native, if. any,. it js ·
ilepraved, and confequently dangt::r.oua .or--pernicious..
A p1a-
...
Digitized by GoogI
,.
'12 A N I L L U S T .R A T I 0 N
: A phnet llrett andfwift in motion, or on the contrat>y;is asthofe .or,
terms import; therefore their celerity, orientality, and their pG6tion, if
fuperiors, fopra ttrram, makes them more manifoft and powerful. Aries
a{cendiog gives a martial wit and incJinatioq, but. if the Sun be in par-
die, u-i~e, or.{ex.tile, to it, f)r its lord, or in conjta:ndion of Jupiter, who
anay be in platic {extile or trine to eithu of them., then it is made folar
and jovial, but _
chiefly folar. U oderftand the like in other figns afccnd-
ing,·~corciing to their rcfpetlive nature', aad the Aatare alfo of thofe pla·-
·~teta that ~ld them.
'I'be .nature and ftate of every planet mufl be attended to ; for a pla-
aet may_be confidered in relation to the portents or fignification of any
'ga or man6on of heaven J thus, FirA: u to pofitien; fecood, dominion •
third, ex~ltation ; fourth, afpett; 6fth, c:rtp,pofition thereueto J as for ex-
ample, Saturn in Ariet mud be confidered as Martialized and SolaJized.
becaufe Aries is the houfe of Mars. and the ezaltation aad triplicity of
the Sun, and fo in others. The afcendant in any nauvity is to be ob-
ferved, alfe ·the lord of the afcendant and his po6tian, or a planet pofitett
therein; all which are to be confadered by the reader or ftudent as to the
porte..ts or figni6cation oftbe afcendant. The fix~b houfe fi,gni6es dif-
c~fes, but yet the twelfth filaU be. a configurator m · all corporal afftic..
tioas, as lteing in oppofition t~ereto.
. From the lord of tho afcendant, or.in any other houfe, preceeds the chief
virtue or moft powerful parts as to the fignification of that houfe, if Sa-
turn and the Sun be in conjunttion in Leo in the tenth. houfe, the latter
being neareft to the cufp thereof, the11 the native arrives ·to ·fome degr~
of dignity or honour from the analogy, pofition, dominion, or fortitude,
of the Sun, .as tlfo his propinquity to the cufp. But Saturn being of a
contrary nature, and adv.erfe to what the Sun portends, alfo hating the
place of his re6dence, and partly aflliCl:ing the Sun, will therefore caufe
{ome unhappy misfortune to arife, and cloud the glory promifed by tlte
Sun in the end.. Saturn in conjund:ion with Jupiter in Virgo is moil
powerful, and overcomes in his effeCts ; but, if they are conjoined ia
Aries. then Jupiter is ftrongcft,. and becomea vittor. This reciprecat'ly
by each being in his fall.
The luminaries are to 'be confidered aa more powerful and ftgni6cant
than the reA: of the planets; and therefore any of the fuperiors in conjunc~
tion with the Sun in Leo influences much power -and honour to the na-
tive by virtue of the Sun, &c. So if Saturn be in conjunction with Ju•
piter io Sagittary, the houfe of Jupiter, .then Saturn a~ls.io dependance
to his di!pofitor. Any planet ftron1 iD a goocl houfe ia of good 6gni6-
. · . catioD.
Digitized by GoogI.e
O ~ F AS T R O , L·O:o Y.
~etion, bu~ much better if the planet be a fortunate one· by natu..e. A
malefic planet, weak in the tenth houfe, .denies honour, if they behold ·
either the cufp or tbe lor~ thereof by. any malevolent afpetl: then many
impediments or obftrutlions prejudice or binder the native's advancem.ent.
Mars in the mid-heaven, ftrong, ufually portends ~ilitary preferment, .
dignity, or profefiion. _ . .
Saturn or Mars, ftrong in a'good boufe of a figure, are as difcords jn
mufic, corre&ed to effed a concord or harmony in foonds" for, being
well aff'eded, they caufe a perfect good, though it be attended with dif...:
6cult means oc methods to accompany it. In fine, their goad is always
tempered with fomething of evil, becaufe they are naturally more propcnfc:
to effed: evil than good as for example, Saturn in the fecond houfe, or·
lord thereof, and ftrong, gives riches by rapine and covetoufnefs; in the
feven-th he denotes the death of the wife. A malefic planet meanly af-
fcBed in a good houfe oftentimes obftrueb or prevents what is naturally
ugoified thereb-y, or at beft but meanly eft"etb a good. As for example,
Saturn meanly aff'ed:ed, viz. peregrine in the fecoad houfe, gives not
riches, yet retains them when gathered, by being fpariog aad penuriou,s.
Mars {o pofi.tcd and ill-eff'ed:ed, diffipates or defiroys an edate by prodi-
gality, and fuch other imprudent expenccs. Saturn, debilitated in the
eleventh houfe of a nativity, produces trouble with or by the means of
friends unrelated; and the analogy is aceording to the debility of the pla-
nets, and how they arc beheld, and mitigated by fextiles and trines, or
contrarily inftantod •by quarti)e' Ql' CJppofitictns. ·
An infortune in conjund:ion with a fortunate planet, is either impeded ·
or deprived of the good lignified; for, though the fortunate planet be in
his own houfe, yet he partakes fomething of the n~ture or analogy of
the malefic, wit~ whom he is conjoined. Three· planets or more in
conjuntlion, aa jointly ~nd feverally according to their refpedive na- .
tures, and to their heavenly ftates, bu.t principally according to the nature
and ftate of the moft ltrong and ruling planet. If an infortune, efpecially
Saturn, be placed between two planets which are in conjunction, he pre-
vents or ·retards the good promifed by the other two planets; the nature
or kind thoreof is difcovere~ by the houfe of heaven wherein fuch a con..
gre6 is made. ·
The lord of the afcendant·applying to the conjuntlion of the Sun ~n
·any nativity,· filewt the native apt, ot delights to conv~rfe with honour-
able perfons, grandees, and fuch-Iike; as alfo will be ambitious of fame.
honour, and dignity, &c. If he apply to Saturn, the native eft"eCl:s ~()
conver!e or a5ociate himfelf with perfoos·of an inferior rank, viz. ruf-
3 '"'-
•
Digitized by Coogle
:z7+.. A. N I L L u· S T R A T l 0 N-
.tics, plebeians, &c. .He is ·rnbjetl: to envy, fear, pentivenefs, and co-
vetoufnefs. Two planets in reception ad: or difperfe their intluen~ im
an amicabfe method, and, if benevolent by nature, their virtues are the
mo~~ powerful. Many planets in cardinaUigns in any geniture, always:
etfeft fome great things ; if in one houfe, the native receives or f':lfr"~rs
an excefs of good or evil, accordin3 to the nature.of that houfe. The
bennolent planets Jupiter, Venus, and Mercury alfo, retrograd~ in any
nativity, is of eminent import, adding to the felicity of a native, and this
is the more powerful if they are applying to the conjunRron of the.earth;
but the retrogradation of Saturn· or Mars in angles, is ever attended with
-difficulties and un~appine1fes, from which pofrtions I lhall always pray,·
Li6era na1, Dqmilll.
'
E N D o! the F I R S T P A R T.
AN
oigi~ized by Coogle·
-A N
1 L L U S T R A T· I 0 N.
.O .F THE
..CELESTIAL SCIENCE ·'
0 F
A S·T R 0 L 0 G Y.
:PART THE SECOND.
CONTAINTNG THE
DOCTRINE oF NATIVITlES,
AND THE
ART or RESOLVING HORAR Y Q....UESTIONS,
TOGETHER WITH
A CoL-LECTION of NATIVITIES of the moA: eminent and remarkable
Pz1uows, TwiNs, DwARFs, GrAwTs, &c.
, I
By E. ·s I lJ L Y, -M.D. F. R. H. S.
•
-PIUNTED JN THE YEA& M.DCC.XCllle
oi~itized byGoogle
_,
-·
'\
•
I .. oigitiz~d by Coogle
A- N ,.
I L L U S·T R A·T 1 0 N.
Of the C E L E S T I A L S C I EN C E of
A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y.
•
p A R ' T .THE SEC b N D.
The ART of RESOLVING H ORAR Y Q._U EST I 0 NS.
IT is an obfervation moll true, that all people endued with reafon are
felicitous to know their future eftate and condition ; but, as fome
perfons find it impoffible to procure the exact time of their birth, aftro-
Jogy fupplies that defect by the dotlrine of Horary Queftions. So that
from a queftion feriou11y propounded almoft as much fatisfaCl:ion may b€:
given the querent, upon many fubjetls of enquiry, as if his nativity were
actually known. For, as the nativity is the time of the birth of the body,
the horary queftion is the time of the birth of the mind ; and there are
few perfons living but are in fome way or other fubjetl to horary doubts,
which, being ferioufly propounded in the 1hape of aqueftion, may befatis-
factorily refolved. This doElrine feems to be founded upon that miraculous
fympathy in nature, which is admirably manifefted between the Moon
and the fea; by which that amazing body of water is conftantly drawn
after her, though no man fees, or can conceive, how. In thefe fympa-
thies there can be no doubt but the vegetive foul of the world invifibly
carries and unites a fpecific virtue from the heavens between one thing
and another, every where working thofe fecret effects, which no mortal
can fail to admire. And in the prefent cafe, who is to determine what
this foul cannot effect between the heavenly bodies and the animal
fpirit of man, working fuch fympathies, as that a queftion of impor-
tance. to our welfare cannot ftart from the mind but in a point of time
when the planets and figns governing the perfon's birth are acting up-
on the very fubject that engages his thoughts and attention. AndJ1ence
the birth of the queftion, like the nativity of a child, carries the .flory of
rhe
178 A N, I 'L .L U .S T It A T I 0 N
the whole m~tter in hand upon-ita forehead. ;And hence ~1(o foUowa
that flcill in natural predictions by which the artift is. enabled tQ demon•
.ftrate the particulars of the event requited J and this u well by the ftars ·
of heaven as Abiathar the prieft was of old·enabled to do by the fiars of
the ephod. . • · ; , ·
. .
But, however, the preditHons that are made from the queftionary way
are by no means fo .perfect and corred as thofe deduced from nativities;
and therefore I recommend all judgments of futurity to be made frorri na.
tivities, .when they can be procured, rather- than front horary· ·queaiotts.
But at the fame time I am very confidentthattheomnifdent Creatori~ not_
at all w&nting for any poffible care in his contrivance of the works of nature,
for the fupply of all ourmod~rate wants and enquiries. And, if it beef-
fcntial to man's welfare to be forewar·ned of the time and t!Jejudgment, as
Solomon declares it is, and that the w!ft man jha/1 Jmo.w it•, then it is
plain that God has afforded means to obtain this knowledge withoutami-
.-acle; and this means may furely be by .the ftan of heavcQ, refponding
our horary queftions; and experience continually affirms, day by day, that
it is fo. Not that I believe the tri¥ial ·~oncerna and accidents.of mankind,
·as lome writers have pretended, may be thus deduced, as ifa glove, loft or
hidden in {port and wantonnefs, tbould be fo watChed and au~oded by
the heavenly intelligencers, that they rnufl Meds point 9Ut · where this
piece of leather were to be found ; or that qu.ellions prQpoundc,d out of
mere curiofity or diverfion are to be refolvcd by them~ No; God's works
are ferious, and not to be made the fport and ridicule of the g~y and inc~
fiderate. For, ·although the heavenly contrivance may aptly re(pond ~f
ferious and important concerns, a.s when David anxiouQy de.tired to know
whether he jhou/d go up i11to any uthe cities qfjudah, aiuJ wh.idl ff lhtlfl 1
.yet that they thould as aptly fatisfy our j.otemperate deftres, and be fub..
fervient to our frolics, is too ridiculous to imagine. There ii no doub~ ~
but the heavens are able to thew us more learning than we mortals, i~ .
this ftate of frailty and corruption, can ever attain to undetftand J and j~
is a great bounty of God that we know fo much as we do ; therQf~re i~ "'
highly becomes every wife and ·good man to glorify the Mflker of all
things for the littl.e knowledge he can and doth attain, and t~ be CtarfftU·
how he fports even with_the leaft among· hia gracious works.
· All enquiries that a~e ferious, and that come tinder ·the denom.inatior,
ofan horary queftion, muft necetfarily relate ei'ther to things paft, pre-
flnt, or to come ; or to concer.ns that once were, now are, or may/Je here'!fier,
and the anfwer to fuch queftions muft be either e1fential or acciocntal"
The c1feotial anfwer is always one of the thrc:e things followin81 ~o wit.
• .Ecdcf. viii. n. and v. 6.
3 thac
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 L .Q G: Y•.
th:it tbe matter conc:«ning whith the enquiry is made, is fidl, I~ !J~, or·
not to. !Jt; fecond, either good or !Jad J and third, either trut or fa!ft.
'Therefore, if the queO:ion be rta·l, and the -matter rightly~ ftated~ the
ttue anfwer, which -is always lhorr, will be ea6.ly di{covered ~y the. f.ol.
)owing nsles. 1 he accidental anfwer is that which appertains to ·the
SR:cidents of the bufirrefs in hand ; and is ahvay& defined by when, 'Wilen,
htJ'W, or VJhJ. And· whoevrr attempt~ to extend his judgmel)t bcyoad
thefe limits, firains art beyond its bounds, and forces it to fpeak ·that
which it is totally incarable of, and by this means. many.prete.nders .t~
Aftrotogy f<~il egregioufiy in their undertakings. To avoid this, h:t ibC.
following queries be attended to. . ·. , ..
Q_U E R· Y I•. Is the Su!Jjefl of Enquiry To BE, or NoT To B!?
. ,
Here the fidl thing to be attended to is the fJtrfiSion or tldfruilim of
tbe matter under confideration. The perfection or completion of the
fuhjett of enquiry may be effc:Cled four feveral ways, viz. by the ap-
plication, tranjJati'on, reception, and pojition, of the· planets ; and thefe al'e
determined and defined by the proper and refpective /ignfficators of the
.fo!Jjt8s of enquiry, which ar~, fir!l, the lords of thofe houfes which re-
late to the matter in hand J fecondly, planets near the cufps of thofe
hou{es; thi'rdly, planets exalted or dignified th~rein J and f-ourthly, the
eonfignificators of tho(e houfes. The lords of the hDufes are thofe planets '
which are lords of the figns that happen to fall upon the cufps of the
houfes. The conjignfficators, of each houfe are as follow: of the firft
houfe or afceridant, Siltnrn and Mars; of the fecond, 'jupiter and Venus 1
of the third, Mars and Mercury; of the fourth, Sol and Luna; of the
fifth, Vc·nus and Sol ; ,of the fixth, Mercury alone; of the· feventh, Lu-
na and Venus; of th~ eighth, Saturn and Mars; of the ninth, Jupiter
alone; of the tenth, Mars and Saturn ; of the eleventh, Sol and Saturn 1
and of the twelfrh, Ventas and Jupiter. From hence it appears that
each houfe hath a primary and fecondary confignificator; the firft where-
of arifes fr.cm lbe ordcr of the planets, the other from the order of the
1igns. ·
Tb~ confideration of the matter propofed is takee from that hou(c:
which hath relation to, and fignific.ation of, the fame; and this 6gni-
fication of the houfes is either fimple or compoand. 1 he fimplc ligni-
fication of the houfes ~s that which hath relation fingly to the pcrfon
of the quercnt J compound fignification is that. which hath relation to
the matter or que6ted. The querc:nt is. he or the that alk.s the queftion J
the matttr, or quefited, is that about which the quefiion is propofed.
The fim~·le 6gnafications of the houfes are a& follow : the firft houfc
Jignifics che qucrcnc"s life and perfon; · 'he {econd, hia {&abfl:.locc 1 the
No. 14• · 3 U · third.
Digitized by (;oogle
•So A N.- I L 'L .U S -
T ll A· T l 0 'N
third,. his kiDdrcd. ncigbb«nars, ami fhort joUfoeys J the fou~th, his ''"'"•
father, ancllaods; the fifth, his plcafures and .offspring; the tix~b,. hia
6ckncfs, ftrvants~ ·and fmall cattle s the fcventh, his wife, ppb)ic ene.
_
mies, aod law-fuits J the eighth. his d~th, and legacies; th~ niath, hi~
s:rligion, loa$ voyages, and learning; the tenth, his mothe,r, trade, and·
honour ; the eleventh, his friends and hopes ; the twelfth, his private
mcmiet, great cattle, ·imprifonment, and crofi"es. The cort)poun4 figni..·
ficatioa is derived from the fimple, b.y con6dering what houfe that iS' .
which fignifies the matter or quefited ; and accounting that,. be it what--
fcerer .h.oufe it may, for its afcendant or firft houfe; ancl fo afcribing
the figni6cation of the firft houfe of the figure to it: doing in lik~ man:-
~ct to all the other houfes in order. So tha.t, if a quefi:ion relates to a bro-
_!; ther ~ re~t~n. we t~ird houfe is then his afc;endant or fidl: houfe, and
·/ ' 1ignifies his life and perfon; the fourth houfe (which is in this cafe .his
(e~oad) his fubftao~ or eftate; ·the fifth houfe {his third) his te.latioris
~nc:\ lilort journey$~ ~he fixth '(his fourth) his father;· the fev~nth his chll·
dren ·-the ~ightb ~is fi_
cknefs. the ninth his wife, &c. •nd the fame of an
otlle"- Tb~fe thi~gs beipg laid as a foundation, we now come to thew
. ~c p.erfettion of ~he matter by the different ~eC\ions of the afpetb•
. Application is "'!hen ~wo planet.s haften to coojunllion or afpe8. of one
l\Obthcr. The light planets only,apply to the more weighty. So Satu.rn
"PPiies to none.; Jupiter only to Satarn ;, Mars to Saturn and Jupiter;
Sol to Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars; Venus to Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and
Sol; Mercury to ~tu.rn, Jupiter, Mars, Sol, and Venus; and Luna to
· ·f,bem aM. But,. i( any of tbe higher planets be_
retrograde, they ma"y.then
~apply, to a lighter by, reu·ogradation. Thus Saturn may apply to Jupiter,
Ma~~ ~oJ, Venus, Mercury, or Luna; Jupiter to Mars, Sol, Venus.:
Merc~ry- or La~n~; Mars to SQl,, Venus, Mercury, or. Lt.ma; Venus to.
~ercury, 9r Lu~ ; anc:l Mercury to Luna, whc:o retrograde. In this
~pplic;ation the lords of each~ ho.ufe are not only to be con1idered, but aUo
the c;oofignificators of the fame; for, i( they alfo apply together by good
af~&, ~e may. give tQe m.
ore probable Judgmeqt. 'fhefe applications
I may be always difcerned by the Ephemeris ; wherein may not only. be.
.:;t: fcen when the Moon applies to any afped, but alfo w~en any of the other .
'· planeftS apply t~ oae another. • ·
TranAation is when a planet fepar,ates from th~ body or afpea of one
.plapet, and illl.lllediat~ly applic:s to the conjunCt4>n or afpect of another.
And the; planet tr~nfiating iJ. always lighter, except in.r.etrogradati9n,
tha.o &l)e plane.t~ fi:om or ·to whom the tranQ.ation.'i& made~ So Lun~
may.tra[_lOatc the light. o£ the other planets from ope to another; Mercuri
~ay tranJla~ t~ li.glat of Sac.urn, Jupiter, Mars. Sol, and Venus, from
· · one
Digitized by Coogle
tifte.to a'iM>th~; .Venus th! 1igl»t of Slturn~ ·t~ptter,·Mar•, •n<! Sol, from ·
one'to anotl\er; :Sot 't~·Jaght of SatUrn, •Jdptter, and Mars, from one,., -
anotheq,; Mars the lighf· of'&'ltli'th and 'jupiter from one to anothcq but:
Jllpiter and Satum:,_wi'fhout"1'etri>gr~dation, can make no tranfiation. Thi• ·
tranfiation is. to··be·tonfidere'd·between the lords of the houfes fignifying
the matter;. tile plaRets "near 'the cufps, and the configniticators of the ·
fame.. So~ if the -qu~lon bdong to the feventh houfe, and Sagittarius bo'
on -the,afcendant; .then Jupiter is lord of the afcendaAt, and Mercury of· ,
the feventb; ,:Satdrn is the firfi confignificator of the afcendant, and Matt ·
the fecond;; Luna is the firfl coafignificator of the feventh, and Venus is ...
' the fecond. And, if the ttanOation·be between Jupiter and Mercory, or
Satm:rr·aod Luna, or-Mars and Venus, it may poffibty perform thc·mat- ·
ter:; but,. if there be a tranfiation between them all, :as ·1llfo betweea
plan~ts pofited near the cufps of the hoafts, the ll\ing will u-ndol)ht- .
edly be brou~bt' to pa~, the fame as by application. A more weighty '
planet may· alfo make a tranOation by feparating. in ret'fogradati6& trel9
. a w~?ghticr. than himkJlf; -and ·ap_plying to' a lighter thao _himfelf•. So
Jupater, beang retrograde, may teparate from Saturn tH" htS afpetl, and, .
tranOate his light and virtue to Mars. Sol, Venus, Mercury.. er LBoa~
· Reception is either ringle « mutual. A iiogle ;eception is whe~ ·..
hut one of the fignifitators i'eceiYes the other into his dig·nities, viz. -his
houk, exaltation, or triplicity'; this is bat of ftnaU f~~. and is called
difpo(ltien. Mutual reception is when two planets arc in ea~h other•s
dign.ities; as Mars ift Gemini) anti M:ercury ih Aries• . This rcteeption .
i-s threefold, eithu by bouft=, exaltation, or triplicity. By bouft, when
Satur-n is in the boule~$ of Jttpiter, and Jupiter in the Jaou·ks -of Satttrn.
By exaltation, ~s when Saturn is in Aries, the exaltation of Meits ; and·· ·
Mars in l..ibta, the exaltation of Saturn. By triplicity, as \!theft Satt:Jrn ·
is in Leo, the ttiplicity of -Mar~, and Mtrs iB Taurus; the triplicity of
Saturn. 'Ihere is alfo another reception of dignities; and that is when·
one plaJlet ia i.n another pla~et'sboufc, and that ·plaAet· in the other's .
ex.aJtation or triplicity• A& Safurn in Taurus-, tho hou(e of Venus, and.
Venus in Libta, the. exaltation of' Saturn, or iR Virgo, his triplicity.·
Thefe reception$ are remarkably {hong and forcing,. i£ they fall either
in the antifcions of each other, or in or nea,. each other~&· feJuile.or trine•
•
Pofitipn is · when either the lords ef two ·houfes cencerned, or the ,
confignificators o( the fame, ·or· bot·h, are pofi·ted in e&clt- other~s- houfes; .
or the lord·of the·afcendant, ·or its confignificator·, or both, are pofited
in the houfe lignifying the thi~g; or, latl:ly, when the lord or configni-
ficators· of the 'houfe lignifying the thing _,e popted in dii: a{cendant. ,
So,)
•
Digitized by Coogle
I
a3'2 A ·N -·I ·L 'L !\1. :S.T 1!J. :
A. T f G N
So, if the q.';!Cftion "elongs to the ~it1m c~li, ·if the lord -of the afcen-
«<an• be found in the medium cceH, -01' lord of the medium cmli in the af:
cenct~nt, or in- mutual pofiuotl_. -it perfcd:t th~ th~ng- defired. This pofi:--
tion is emineat, and, if the. faid "fignific~tors - be poured .in the antifci~n~
·erother..digoit;ies of eacrh other, ur of th~ plctn~ts f·gnifyin~· ¢e..thi~?s,· it
abfPlu~ely de.ootes the full completion of •t; .more: elp~c.iaUy ·if the /aid
~gnifi.catCi>rs by· pofition are in fextile or tri-ne to each othe~_. 9r to Jupi·.
ter, SoJ,,or Venus, or to lords of goo1i houf-cs. '1 he powor·of antilci· ·
<>ns are equal to a fextile or trine, chic.:fly if tht"f fall nea-r thofe points,
or in 1he djgnities of their propt r planet, or borh . . :rhd'e antifcions arc
t_o ~e.confidered- in all the wa)S afore{Jid; to "'it, .iA a_,pl.iF.ltl_on, tr~llf·;
la:tion, reception, and po6tie>n, in which tht:Y .efi"c:Cl: much rnore than
Qtherwi fe could be imagin~·. -
If there be applkation of one <?r bpth fJg:-
nifi<;~tors, .though to no afped., but to,.the.an~i!cipn of the other.fi~n~-­
icators..: or reception by antifdon with. goed, afptd:, or a rea~ po.fi~i~~
~ an.ti.fcion of Jhe.on~, witt) a. good .tranOation to the oth~r fignificaro~•.
it perfecls tb.in..gs beyond r:~pe,tarion. rAr..d t~u~.. by any or all of. the~
~r~goiqg cir:cum.llancc:s, m~y· tbe.fu~j~ of tnquiry be brought to p•fs,
an4 compler~. _ ... J : , . • .i. , •...l.
The matter is .deftroycd by probibi~iQ~~. whiC.h is ~·hept tbe~fignifica­
tors are.applyiog to. an afpt"~, :and befQ~e ~h~y can come to ;that _afp~f.
tbcJigl)tef' Qr fRplyi9.g 'p{.;n.et comes.to t!Je c~nj~naion,or _afp~tl: o~ a9-o-:
~cr; wh-ich .pJanet ddlroys wJut is defired. Or by fruftration, which
is wh~n (lgniticatqrs are .coming to an afpeCl, the more weighty planet,
befo{"e ~h~y lean ma,ke that' alpctl:, ·meet& with th~ conjundiop or afp~c:t
of.•another planet, ~nd thereby fruftra~es ·the f~rll}.e.r atp\!~l:. . Or ~y. re•
.franatiol), which is when two figni6c.uor.s are_coruipg t9 an afpcCt,. ~nd,
before tb(y can. make that afpeCt, tho: apply.ing planet ·fa!ls retrpgrad~,
if dfrc;Ct,; or' .jfreuogr.adc, he becomes aired before he can make the laid:
afpeC\.
Things are al£o ddl:royed by' afpeff, which .is when: the '.fignifica~rs
- apply ~~ the qu·:-rtile or opp~fition of one another, without rc:ceptio.n ,..
or by the conjunction of the Sun, which is called combuftion. a~d i& the
greateft afH1d:aon of all. Alfo by feparatiQn, which is, w~cn the fignificatprt
of the qucrc:nt, and thing propofed, have latdy been in afpcct, and arc
newly ieparated, though never fo little , and this denotes the full and
•a.blolute ddlruttion of the mottter, which we: feldom or ev~r .find to tail.
The quality of the afpt.a hkt>wile thews the c~ndition of the thing pr mat-
ter l.tely pdfi~d. if it was good, ·good; if evil, .evil; and. at i~ eather
totally <Jt:tlru) c 1, or at leaft brought to pafs with much difficulty, if the
tran'fiation be made -by quartile or oppofition. But more cfpecially if
3 · aAOlhet
oigiti~ed by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L . 0 0 Y.
~notbet .planet et the fame time lhall tranflate the virtue or Hght of both
.Ugnifiqtors to Saturn or Mars, or to:the lords of evil houfes. ·
. If th.
ere be a tranfiation between the fignificators ~by quartile or oppofi¥·
tion, or by fextiteor trine, and, before the tranflation can be made, one-
·()f both of the fignificators lhall go into another · frgn, the matter will
.come to nothing. If there be prohibition, fruftratiob, ·refranation, evil
afpect, feparation, or evil tranfiation, by quattile or oppofition, without'
Ututual reception, it 'is enough to deftroy the matter, but more efpecially
if fome or all ofthem happen to be in fixed figns, and in a fuccedent or
cadent houfeof the figure, or from the houfe fignifying the thing. Move-·
~ble figns are Aries- Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn ; fixed. figns are 'fau·'
rus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquaries; common .figns are Gemini, Virgo,- Sa.;
gittary, and Pifces; angles are the firft, fourth, feventh, and ten~h; fuc¥
~edents are the fecond, fifth, eighth, and eleventh, houfes; cadenti
arc the third, fixth, ninth, and twelfth, houfes. ·
.. .
.
Q._U E R Y II. Is the lVIatter G 0 0 D or 1
E VI L t
Confider the hou(e to which the thing belongs, its lord, cu1;d planeta
therein; and the houfe fignifying the matter.of t~e end., its lord, and pia.
nets thereiq; and, if the houie fignifying the thing be fortified by the
prefence or beams of good planets,. or eminent fixed fiars Qf the firft or.
fecoh'd ·magnitude, or if the Dragon's Head ~e there, it .fuews good, but
the contrary, ·eviJ. The fame more particularly, ifthe lord of.the h.oufc
fignifying the thing be angular, ftrong, ancl effentially fortified ; or in
good afpcct~o the cufp of .that houfe fignifying the matter elf. the end, ita
lord, or planets pofited therein ; but the contrary, evil.
. . .
· Likewife fllUtutl pofition or reception, and the:frgnificators in good af-
pect with ~be {~perior planets, or planets ~ore weighty tha_n themfelyes,
are all telhmonaes of good. Bot ·the figruficator of the tbmg peregrme,
flow in motion, retrograde, or feparated from the lord or planet in.the,
lloufc.fignifyiDg the matter of the end, are all fignificators of evil. The ·
houfe fi~nifying the nratter of the end is always· that which rdates to the
thing or thing$ ·expected from the·queftion propofed; for example,·if the .
queftion was, Is ~t good to 1'Clllain ? here the ena of'the query is to be Ul_l·
derftood, whether it be for' health, wealth, preferment, or the like: iffor
health, the afcendant fignlfi.e.s the matter of.the end; if wealth, the fecond
lioufe·; if prcfetmeut, the:tentb, ana i'o on. . .
Q._U E R Y ill:. · -Is tht Repo1t T R :u E ·or -F A ·L S E .,
'Thefe judgments are . drawn from that hou(e, its lord, and planet
therein pofited~ figqifying the matter or thing concernin& which the re..
.No. 14. . 3 X pore
Digitized by Coogle
284 A N I Jj L U S T R· A T I 0 N
"' port is. So, if it be of a brother orotherrelation,judgment irdrawn from
the third; if of a father, from the fourth.; if of a child, from the fifth;
if of a fervant, from the fixth; if of a wife, enemies, or war, from the te-
venth ; if of a king or prince, from the tenth ; if a law_ver or "Clergy•
IDan, from the ninth; and fo on. If any planet whatfoever be in the houfc
fignifying the thing concerning which the report is, or the Dragon's
Head be there, or the lord of the fame hoofe be angular, or in conjunClion
Gr afpeel of any planet, the matter or report is true. But, · if the report
was good, and the faid fignificator or planet pofited in the faid houfe be
retrograde or flow in motion, or combuft, or peregrine, or in evil afpect
of a more weighty planet, or cadent, or in conjunCtion with the Dragon's
Tail, or the Dragon's Tail pofited in the faid houfe, it certainly fignifiet
the report is premature ; and fo contrariwife. . ·
The Moon angular generally lignifies the report to be true , more ef-
pe · if the report be evil, and the be in evil afped with malign pla-
nets ; good, and lhe be in good afped of the benign. The Moon
in a fix~d fign, and in conjunction of the Dragon's Head, filews truth ;.
but moveable, void of courfe, and in conjunction of the Dragon's Tail,
falfehood. Laftly, if it be concerning the furrender of a city, or conquefl
either by fea or land ; confider the afcendant of the given place, and up,-·
on what cufp it is pofited in the figure, and accordingly judge in all.re--
fped:s as ·if that houfe was the real and etfential fignificator of the thing
concerning which the report was made. Hitherto of the c1lC:ntial'aofwec
-of a queftion : we now come to the accidental.
Q._U E R Y IV. WHERE, or WHtCR WAY?
Wherever the fignificator is, there is the thing ; the houfe where the·
fignificator is pofited thews the quarter of heaven, or point of the com-
pafs, which way the thing may be. If the boule and fign cohere. this
JUdgment is fo much the more firm ; if they difagree, confider the pofi..
tion of the Moon, and with what 1he agrees moft, and give judgment
from her. If the Moon agrees neither with the fign nor houfe in which
the fignificator is pofited, then confider the part of fortune in the fame
manner as before you confidered the Moon, and accordingly judge. And,
if this anfwers not, confider laftly the difpofitor of the Part of Fortune.
and determine by .that. . · ·
The diftance is difcovered from the proximity or diftance of the fignifr..
cators to body or afpeCl, confidered as they may happen to be either an-
gular, fuccedent, or cadent, refpe:l: being had to their latitude, whether
little or gn:at,. north or fouth. Great latitude 1hc:ws obfcurity, ·and gr~at
, . difficultf
Digitized by Coogle
•
0 P A S ,
T R. 0 L .0 G Y.
lilficulty in. finding what is fought for: if the latitude be north~ it thews ·
difticuHy only, not impoffibility; ·but, if fouth, then all the labour of
feeking will be in vain, unlefs the fignificators be angular and near in a£:.
peet. Angles fignifying nearnefs; fuccedents farther oft'; and cadc:nts ·
beyond thought or imagination.
The fignificator angular and without latitude thews fome paces; if it•
hath north latitude, fome furlongs di!lant; if fouth, fome miles. The
fignificator fuccedent and . without Jiuitude 1hews fome furlongs J if it .
hath north latitude, fome miles; if fouth, fome leagues. The fignifica..
tor cadent and without latitude fuews fomc miles J if it hath north la-
titude, fomc leagues ; if fouth, fome degrees. But thefe rules are chiefly ·
to be confidered in things having life ; the former give the knowledge of
the way and difiance in general, and the latter meafure it out di!lindly··
by numbers. If it be required to know the true number of paces•.
furlongs, miles, leagues, or degrees,_of di!lance, confider the number of
degrees and minutes between the body or afpett of the fignificators,
and according to the number of degrees which are between the conjunc-
tion, {extile, quartile, trine, or oppofition, fo many paces, furlongs, miles, ·
leagues, or degrees, is the thing fought after diftant from the place from
whence it was loft, or f1om the perion making enquiry. And, fo many
minutes as adhere to the degrees, fo many fixtieth parts of the fame de~
non1ination of the meafure which one de&ree fisnifieth arc to bc-acc:oantec:l
and added to t.he former number... . .
Q_U E RY V•. WHEN, or IN WHAT TIME l'
The limitation of time is taken, firftJy, by houfe and fign J fecondJy, by
afpeet; thirdly, by tranfit; or, fourthly, by dirc:ction. The fitfi: threearO ·
ufed in horary queftions, or elections ; the two Jafi only in nativities
and annual revolutions. If the ·fignificator hath latitude, the meafure of
time hath its limitation from houte and fign. Whether things are to be
brought to pafs or deftroyed, the time, if it be lignified by the houfe and ·
fign, mufi be confidercd as the fignificator is angular, fuccedent, orca-
dent, having moveable, fixed, or common,. figns. Angles fignify the
{udden performance of the ;matter ; fuccedents, long time and with much ·-
difticulty; cadents, fcarcely at all, or at leaft when all hopes are pc1ft, and·
with care and vexation. Angles fignify, if they have moveable figns, ·
{omc days; if common _figns,. fome weeks; and, if. fixed figns, {orne· ·
months. Succedents tignify, if they have moveable figns, fome rnonths'J
ifcommon 6gns, fome years; and, if fixed figns, when all hopes are paft,
if at aU. If it be required to know the Ct'rtain number of days, weeks,
months~ · or.years, confider the number. of degrees and minutes between
the··
Digitize~ by Coogle
. I
~~6 A N I L L U 8 1" ·il A T ·l 0 N'
the'bo~y or arpca ofthe fignificatbrs, and according to th.e numbe~ orde-
grees which are between their conjunctio'n, fextile, qt;tartile, trine, or op.
pofitiem, fo many days, weeks, months, or ye~rs, flull it be before the
matter enquired after ihall be fully accon1pli£hed or quite deftroyed.
Great fouth latitude often prolongs the time beyond 'the former limita-
tiQn 1, riorth latit~de. of~en c~ts. it £?orter; but, if the qgni.ficators ba.v•
·11o latatude, the hmnauon ofttme IS made fi~ply by the afpect. . · -
. .
: Tht time ftgnificat.ors m'eet by afpect is found out in the Ephemeris $
to ~it, the tnonth and day thereof in which the fignifi.cators meet. Tran-
fits lliew the pr9gre(s of th'e mat'ter, whether the fignifi.
c.
ators have lati-
lt1de or not, and pofnt out the moft probable times in which the matter
inay-be forwaded or impeded. .
· In obfervatiotrs of tranfits, the figure 'mufl: be drawn into a fpecu1um.
Fil'td what con1igurati'ons, viz. w~t conjunttion or afped:, it is by
which the matter may be brought to pafs, or dellroyed; and, laftly, ob-
ferYeUn the Ephemeris vihen the .chief 'fi'gnificators come in 'the fame
figbj -degree, ·and minute ; for that is the time in which the matter: wiU
be coflilplcted-. And by the ·tranfits in 'the fpeculum may confhntly be
fo•nd theg6od and evil days that aWed the matter, until it is either per~
fcrtted or become fruftrate. · ·
' · . . 4 ( ..
.
Q...U E R Y VI. H 0 W or W H Y ? 1 . .
The planet~ whjch make _
th.e _pro~ibition or frufl:rati~n, whether by ·
good or evil afpeB:,'ire toe nurtiilg,'deihoying, or impediting, planets; to
w;t, the plan.e~s that.fignify he, . ilie, or that thing, which ataU h"in'der
~i dellroy the bJfinefs. The oian, woman, or thing, is difcovered from
the impediting pla'net, by ~onfidering what. houfes he is lor.d of, ancl
what. he is pofited" in. The ho'ufe he is lord of denotes the quality or
relation of the man, W()man, Or thing ; the houfe he is pofited in, tftC
inatte~) and the houfe i~ wbi~h . the prohibi~~on or fruftration happon~
the caufe or reafon.
lf'th~ impediting plan~t is lor~, of the (ceo~ houfe, it is a ·matter u
eftate-; if the third houfe, kindred, neighboul'8, &c. if of the footth
houfe, inheritances qr fathers ; if of the fifth. hou(e, gaming, pleafures,
children; ifof the fixth .houfe, ficknefs, fervantt, fmall cattle; ·ifJofllhe
. {eventh houfe, enemies, Jaw-fuits. wives • if of the ·eighth ·houfe., Mgal.
cies, wives portions, de;lth ; -if of.. tbe ointh houfe, -rel_igion, churcbtBto,
voyagtts at fea, arts, fcieoccs J~ ifof the tel1th hotSfe, mothers, grcWt.men,
trade, boa~, ofiites, cmployJncnrs $ ifof tho clcvent~ houfc,. Jaopes•
.3 friend•,
Digitized by Coogle
0 F . A S T R 0 L .0 . G y;. ·· 2g7
·:(~iends, acqttaintance; ··if of. the tweifth houfe, great c:a'tde, difcafes, :
private ~netnies·., imprifonment, &c. Then confider · whether the pla-
net is good or evil~ mafculine or feminine, or whether in ~ mafculine
cr feminine fign and houfe, and accordingly judge of the e1fed:s more· ·
remifs ·or exat.l; as they may be brought to pafs either by man, woman,
or thing; j~dging always inthis cafe by the·fuperior teftimonies. ·And:
obferve, )aftly, that, whatfoever has·been faid of the impediting or .hi:n..
dering planet, the fame is to be underftoQd of .the planet adjuvant, ·oc
helping. ·
The n.ext thing to be confider~d, is the prop~iety .of the quetlion pro-
pofed, and th'e· fincerity of the querent; for it foaidtimes happe·ns :that
queftions arc improperly and incorreclly ftated; .and at others, that ther
are put through knavery and impertinence, with aview to injure.and
. difgrace the· artift. In thefe cafes, the queftion not being radical:, .no
anfwer can be obtained; and theref-ore he whc> attempt& to refolve them1
will bring lhame upon himfelf, and· o·ifgrace upon the fcience. · Every
queftion, to be radical, muft:be fincere and natural; and, unlefs.they are
Co, ·they cannot be refolved. Therefore, to afcertain their fincedty ort
the one hand, and their fitnefs or unfitnefs on the other, the following
Jules moft be obfcrved. ·
EreCt the figure as before direCl:e~; and, if the fign afcending ant! the
planet in the afcendant defcribe exacHy the perfon of the querent, . the
quefi:ion is radical, -and fit to be judged. But, if either the very begin-
ning or extreme end ·only of the ftgn afcends, it wilt not be prop~r te
give judgment; for it denotes the querent to be a knave, and the queftion
. a forgery, propofed merely out of ridicule and intemperate mirth• . This ·_#.
rule I have often verified in praBice, by dired:ly charging the querent with ?/
(uch defign; ond the·etfeet this unexped.ed difcovery had upon them has
ufually produced ·an acknowledgment of it. .The fame thing is indicated
by the quartile or oppofition of the Moon with the lord of the feventh
houfe; or by the Moon being void of courfe, or combuft; which pofitions
likewife denote the queftion to be improperly and incorreClly ftated. Sa-
turn in the afcendant, impedited and afflicted, lbews the queftion propofed
to be either falfe; or without ground, or the Jubject of it paft hope; and
whenever the lord ofthe afcendant is found combuft or retrograde, it in-
dica~es ·the fame thing, and £hews the queftion is propofed to anfwer {orne
abfurd or knaviili purpofe, and therefore not to be meddled with.
· Any queftion may be deemed radical, when the lord of the afcendant
and the lord of the hour are of the f.•me nature and triplicity. Thus,
fuppo~ Leo afcends upon the horofcope at the time the queftion is pro.
~o. lf• · 3 Y pofed;
oi~itized by Coogle
\
28t A N 1 L' L U S 't· R· A T I 0 N
'
po(~d, ~nd ·M~rs happens to be lord of the hoar, t~ queftion wtll be-.
radical, becaufe the Son, which. is lord of the horofcope., and Mars~ arc
of one nature, Yiz. ~ot and dry~ So, if Jupit~r be lord of the hour,
the quell:ion will be radical, becaufe the Sun and Jnpiter are of the fame
triplicity ; and this obfervation extends to all the other planets, an duni-
.f~rml~ fuews the .q.uefl:ion .proper to be judged. But, whenever, the tef-
hmon~es or figmficato-rs 10 the :figure are found equally fl:rong for ·and
againft the matter propounded, it ought not.to be adjudget;l J for the.artift
knows not which way the balance may yield, and therefore judgement
1hould be deferred to a future time. ·
There is one rule by which the radicaJnefs of.a quefl:ion may be afcer-
tained with gr~ater ¢crtainty, or at leaft with lefs probability of mif
..
take, thi~ by any other ; and this is by the moles with which every ,
perfon is more or lefs marked•. It is really an aftonifuing fa~ and no
lefs extraordinary than true, that thefe moles or marks are aU uniformly
diftin&uifued by the figna and planets which pr~vaU at the tim~ of birth,.
'if not abfoluteJy produced by them. It was the truth and univcrfality
of this obfervation which firtl led to the ·difcovery of that aft"edion and
. government which the cdeftial fig~s have opon the different members of
mao's hody ; a faa fo obvious, that, notwithftanding all endeavours to
refute· the idea ~f planetary influence, yet this fact is annually recorded·
in etery almanac, and finds a place in almoft every other aftronomical
·publication.
According to this rule, whenever a perfon comes to propouoq a quef-
tion, let a figure of the twelve houfe& be erected for the querent: ·then
note what fign is upon the cufp of the afcendant, and in the part of the
querent's body which that fig~ governs, if the queftion be radical, the
querent will have a mole. For inftance, if Aries be .the fign afcending
at the time, the mole will be on the head or face; if Taurus, on the neck
or throat; if Gemini, pn the arms odhoulders; ifCancer, on tht breath
and fo UpOn any other part of the body which the fign afcending thall
govern. Obferve next, in which of the twelve houfcs the lord of the
afcendant is pofited, and in that part of the body the fign governs which
bappt:os to fall upon the·cufp of that houfe will the qucrent have another
mole. Next Qbfcrve the tign defcendiDJ on the cufp of the fixth houfe,
and in whatever part of the body that J1gn· governs the querent will find
another mole ; and upon that member alfo which is ugnified by the fign
wherein the lord of the tixth houfe is pofited will be found another.
Obferve alfo what ftgQ tbe Moon is pofitcd in, aad io.that part of the .
body which is governed ·by it fuall tbe,nativc or querent find ~nother
mole. If the pla~t Saturn be the fignificator, .the mole is either black
or
·oigiti;ed by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G ·Y~ ~9
'
cr of'a dati colour r if Mars bcdignificator, and in a fiery agn, it th-en re. #
fembles a fear, cut,. or.dent, in the fieili ; but in any other fign it is a red
mote,., If Jupi~r be'"tbe fignificator, the mole is of a purple or bluifu
caft ; if the Sun, it is of an olive or cbefnut_colour; If Venus, it is1e1.
low r if Mercury,. of apale lead colour; _if the Moon, it is whitilh, or
participates-of the colour of that planet with which file happens to ,be in
afpecl:. And, if the planet which gives the mole be much :impeditc.d or
afffict"ed-r thcr mark:. or mole will be larger .and more vifible.
If the fign and planet which gives· the mark or mole be mafc~1line; it·
is then ntuatcd on the· right ude of the body; but if feminine, on the .
~ft fide. If the fignificator. or planet which gives the mole be found·~­
bove the hori30n, that is,. from the cufp of the afcendant .to the cufp of·
the feventh, either· in the twelfth,. eleventh, tenth, ninth, eighth, or·fe-
venth, houfe, the mark· or mole will be Qn ·the fore part of the body; but·
if !he fignifieator be under tlie earth,. th~t is,. in ; either the. firft, kcond,
third, fourth,. fifth, or 6xtb,, houfe, it• wdl be fituatod on the back:.
or hinder part of the body. If only a few degrees ofthofign afcend upon.
tile horofcope, or defcend on tbe fixth ; or if the lord' ofthe"afcendant,
lord of the fixth, or the Moon, be pofited in the beginning of any fign J
the mole or mark will be found upon the upper part of the member thofe
fJgns govern. If half th~ degrees of a fign afcend, or the fignificators be
pofitcd in the middle of any fign, the mark·or mole will be in the middle
of-the member; but, if the laft degrees of a fign afcend, or the figninca-·
tors are in the latter degrees of a fign, the mark or mole wiU then be »··
tuated on the lower part of the member fuch fign governs. . .
If the queftion be radical, the time rightly taken, and the querent fin..:
eere, and of fufficien~' age, this rute will feldom or ever be fouod to fail. : "'
Ia afcertaining the exaCt time-of any perfon's nativity, I have found it of
excellent ufe; never having been once deceived by it in the fmaJieft de- ·
gree. In company I have frequently tried the experiment upon a llr.an-
ger, and ever found it correfpond, to the aftoni~ent of all perfons
prefent ; and it is an experiment which any reader may eafily make upon
))imfelf.or friends. B'ut in the months of November and December, .
when figns of Jhort afcenfions are upon the afcendant, great care mull; be
taken to be exaa in point_of time ; for in thofe months the Sm1 is f~­
qoently not. vifible, and clocks are not always to ·be depended upon; ;
therefore without proper care the right afcendant may eafily be miffed,
for Pifces·aad Aries both afcend in the fpace of fifty minutes, 'GDd Aqua-
ries and Taurus in little more than an hour; but, if the time be taken ex.: ·
ad:, no one need ever miftruft the certainty of thefe rules, and the· exatt
conf~rmily of the marks or moles to tile figns and planets which tepee·
· fent
Digitized by Coogle
190 A N · I L L U ·S T It .A T I 0 N
fent them. Thus, by looking at a perfon's nativ.ity, and attend~:to_tbe(e
rules, the reader may exactly point out and defcdbe the m~les in any part
ofthe native·s body,. though ·it be a perfon he never faw or converfed
'vith ; and, if he is corretl: :t& 'ti.me, he ·may fafel~ vootur.e his life upoa.
the matter. And by the fame kind of iimplc, eafy, and certain, rules; are
.a-11 prcdiftions in aftrology managed; fo rthat, inil:eruh)f calling in the aid
. of any fupernatural or ·infer.nal compact, it Ci>nly requires to be .correct to
time and calculation, and to know the true nature and influence of the
planets, and by. thefe alone are the events .and contigen.cies· of futurity
demontlrated and foretold. · '
, As thefe rules hold good upon the ·body of every querent, fo will they,;
mutatis m(ltandis, · upon _
the body of th~ quefited ; for example, Suppofe:
a perfon enquires c~ncerning a wife or fweetheart, then the ~eventh ho~fc
Will be her firft oraiccndant, and t~e twelfth her fixth ; and m thofe parts
of her -body which the ~gns upon the ~ufps of thofe houfes govern tha11_ ·
1he have moles ; and fo by the Moon aod other figni~cators. It Js alfo
found by oonfiant ohf~rvation, that an infortune ,pofited .in the a(cendant
always marks the face with a mole or.fear; for the afcendant orfi'rlt houfe
always reprefcnts the face, let what fign foever afcend • the fecond repre-
feots the neck, the third the arms and fi1oulders, the fourth th~ brea"ft, ·
and fo on_. every houfe and figo in order_. according to its fucceffion. It
_ is alfo obfervable~ that, if .the Moon be in corrjunHion or oppofition of the
·Suo, in a'n evil ilfpeet to Mars., apd in angular houfes, the querent has a ·
natural infirmity or blemilh in ~r near one of his eyes. Thus having
thewn how to difcover whether queftions are proper and radical, or not;.
we thall now direCt how to give judgement upon them.
Q.._U E S T I 0 N S proper to the F I R S T H 0 U ,S E.
The firft hoafe has fignificatiao of the life of every perfon, and expref-
fes the ftature and temperature of .the body; and in Horary ~eftions
l.hefe fallowing are proper unto it.: ·
· t. Ofthe lmgth ofthe ~erent's lift.
2. Ofthe good or roilattending lift. .
3· When or in 'lohat time jha/1 the native undergo a change 1 ·
4· What part oftbe ffl.yerent's lift is likely to he mojl pr~JJurous F
5· 'Toward what part ofthe world may he direB his '!!Jairs to prOJPer- in
them 1 · •
. 6. A pet:fon having a Jljire to.fpeak with another,jha/1/;e.findhimat home1
7. Ofan ab.ftnt party, ifdead or alive. - ·
S. Of11jhip atfta, herfofety or dejlru51ion.
. 3 'Ihife•
~igitized by Coogle
0 F -A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
l"he(e particulars~ being explained, will give Jight fufficient to the aftro-
Jogian, whereby he may judge of any other queftion proper to this houfe.
Of the Length if the ~erent's Lffi 1'
; To refolve this queftion, obferve the fign af~ending, the lord thereof,
and the·Moon ; and if they are found free from the malignant ·bcam.s of
the infortunes, ·or of the lords of the fourth, fixth, eighth, and twelfth,-
houfes, and not combuft, the querent's life will not be 1hort ;· and, if
the fignificators are not affliCted by the prefence of violent fixed 1l:a:rs, it.
may be ftill further prolonged; but if the lord of the afcendant be com-
buft and·retrograde, and .in an evil houfe of heaven, the qu.erent is not
likely to live long. When the fignificators arc unfortunatel.y af.pc:ded
from good places of the figure, or the benevolent planets interpofe their
rays, the malevolence threatened will be fomewhat abated ; but if 'it be
from evil houfes in the horofcope, and the benevolent planets afford no
help, danger of a ·1hort life is much to be feared. . . .
Of the Good or Evil attending Lffi 1
The good or e\'il that attends each perfon is diftinguilhed by the for-
tunate and unfortunate radiations in the· figure. When benevolent pla-
nets po1fefs the afcendant, or the principal places of the figure, they in-
dicate much good to the quercnt through the whole courfe of his life.
And if the lord of the afcendant and the Moon be friendly afped:ed by
the beams of the fortunes, although from malignant places of the fcheme,
yet it prefages good to the na~ive, inafmuch as an accidental evil canno.t
rebate or withftand an etfential good. But when the infortuoes polfefs
thefe places, or by evil afpea afflict the 1ignificators, the querent will be
fubjeH to a troublefome life. IfSaturn poffefs the afcendant, the quercnt
will be melancholy and penfive, and fubject to perplexities from aged
men. If Mars, he will be choleric, and liable to oppreffion by knaves
and fwindlcrs, and fometimes by the treachery of kindred; if the Dra-
gon's Tail be in the afcendant, he will never be free from fcandal and dif-
grace. When the affiid:ing planets are lords of unpropitious houfes,
the evil will be longer durable; but, when the affifting planets are lord$
of good houfes, the good will be the more permanent. Note alfo the
houfes thofc planets govern J for from thence is difcovered by_ what
.means the querent 1hall be fortunate or unhappy. And, as the malignant
beams of th~ evil planets prevent or eclipfe the good that is fignified; To
.the benevolent rays of the fortunate ftars reverberate much of the mif-
£hicf·portended : by duly confidering which, according to the ftrength of
tbc planets affifting or afflicting, the extent of the good or evil that at-
~i each querent'alifc may be.nearly afcertaincd. ·
No. 15. 2 Z In
Digitized by Coogle
A N J L L .U s- T R A T ~t 0 N
In 'What crime the Natjve may t1tpe8 a Ch411ge1
Whenever this quefiion is ferioully propounded, and the nativity of
the propo~nt not attainable, (for, if the nativity can be had, horary
quefiions are ufelef~,) ered the figure. and draw it.into a fpeculum, and
dired: the feveral fignificators to their promittors, as in a nativity. Find
the true diftance of each fignificator from its promittor, and turn it into
time, as in a nativity, and according to the e:ffeCts of the direction~ judge
of it. But this method is only to be taken when queftions of weighty
concern arc propounded; upon any trivial or ordinary bufinefs it is wholly
unnecelfary. In matters of little importance, it is fufficient to ob..
ferve the degrees of diftance between the fignificators, either of their
bodies or afpelts, which will point out the time correctly enough. When
fixed fiars of a violent nature occupy the principal parts of the figure,
the afcendant, mid-heaven, or place of the Moon, they prefage fudden and
unexpected mifchief; but, when fixed ftars ·of a noble and generous na-
tqre potfefs thofe places, they demon!l:rate ·fudden and perm~nent good
to the querent. ' ·
What Part of the f!}.yerent"s Life is likely to 6e m?Jl prifperousf
To refolve this queftion, it only requires to ohferve in what part of the
figure the fortunate ftars are; and according to their pofition judge of it.
If the propitious planets are in the afcendant, the twelfth or eleventh
houfes, the native will profper moft in his younger days. Ifin the tenth,
ninth, or eighth, in the middle part of his age. If in the feventh, fixth,
or fifth7 after his middle age. If in the fourth, third, or fccond, his
latter days will be the moft comfortable and happy. Tbc time is afcer..
tained by reckoning for every houfe fituated between the fortunate_
planets and the afcendant five years, if the fignificators of life be weak;
if moderately dignified, fix ; but, if the fignificators of life are remarka-
bly ftrong and well dignified, then feven years may be reckoned for every
ho\lfe.
'I'oward ·what Patt of the World lllllJ the §(Jttrmt dirttl his Cour.ft to
- pr~trf
It is a misfortune not very uncommon for perfons to undertake long
journeys and voyages, much to their prejudice and di{advantage; for, al-
though all places are alike lO him that made the earth, yet they are not fo
·to men that poffefs it; therefore it will be requifite for _thofe who judge
que!Hons of this kind to obferve the following rules, or at leail as many
of tpem a& may be necetfary. The whole canopy of the heavens is di-
2 ~~
Digitized by Coogle
· oF .ASTROLOGY.
vlded into four quarters J eaft, weft, north, and fouth ; and thefe.four
quarters are ag~in Jubdivided,. viz. the firfi houfe is full eaft, and th!
twelfth houfe, being in afcenfion next unto it, ia edt: by fouth; the e}e.
venth next unto that, fouth by eaft; and the mid~hec;ven fouth, &c.
Now according to thefe quarters of the heavens, thus divided and fub..
divided, look for·the benevolent planets Japiter, Venus, Luna, and the
part of fortune,· or the ~oft of them, and direCt the querent in his affairs
thither. For example, fuppofe thefe planets thall be in the mid-heaven,
that being fouth, ·direct the querent fouthward; if they be in the ninth, .
it is bell to go fouth-weft. If in the weft, it is his intereft togo full
weft; and (o of the reft. Confider alfo the nature ·of the querent's de-
fire, whether it be for health, riches, honour, friends, &c. that he en.
gages in his undertaking; for, by right1y underfiaoding the qud\:ion, the
querent•s defire ·{ball be the more readily arifwered. lf it be for health
be wou1d remoYe his habitation, obferve where or in what quarter the
lord of the afcendant and the Moon are pofited, and direa him that
way. If for riches, take notice of the lord of the fecond and the part
of fortune. If for honour, confider the Sun and the lord of the tenth._
If for friends, the lord of the eleventh; and fo of the other fignificatora.
A Ptrfon..having imparta11t Bz¢nefl 'liJith anathtr, fha/1 hefind him at Home I
The truth I bave always found in the anfwers to this queftion pri-nci-
pally induced me to give it a place here; for I have often tried the e~­
pfriment, both for myfelf and others, and have never known it to fail.
'Jhe rules are thefe:. If you would fpeak with a perfon that you have f-a-
miliar and confiant dealings with, but no way related, take the feventh
houfe and his lord to fignify him, th<lt is the feventh from the afcend~ntl
for the afcendant always fignifies the querent. If the lord of the fe-
~entb be.in any of the fo&Jr angles, viz. in the firft, fourth, feventb, or
Jenth, houf~s, the perfon you would fpeak with is certainly at home. If
the lord of the feveoth be in any of the{ucccdent houfes, viz. in the fc..
cond, fifth,. eighth, or eleventh, he is not then at home, but is near it,
and may with a little diligence be f.s>und; but if the lord of the feventh
he in any one of the. cadent houfcs, viz. the third. fixtb, ninth, or
twelfth, the party is far from home, and confequently cannot be fpoken
with if fought for. If the lord of the afcendant apply to the lord of the
feventh by a friendly afpeet at the time of enquiry, the querent may per-
haps meet the quefited, or accidentally hear of him by the way. Or, if
Jbe Mo~n or any other planet transfer the light of the lQrd of the fevcn:h
.to t~ lo~d of the afc:endant, it denotes the fame thing. The nature and
fe¥ of the pla,oe.
t transferring the light denoteJ what IIWIDCr of perfon.
lhaU give notice to.the qucrent of the pes:fon he enquires after, accord..
, ins
Digitized by Coogle
294 AN ILLUSTRATION
ing to the fign and quarter he is pofited in. But, if the perfon enqui-
red after be a relation, then the lord of the feventh is not to be taken,
but the lord of that houfe which fignifies fuch relation; as, if it be a
brother, then the lord of the third muft be referred to; if a father, re-
gard muft be had to the lord of the fourth; if a fon or daughter, obferve
the lord of the fifth, .and fo on; and, according to their poiitions, Judge
as above fpecifi.ed.
lf the Party lrmg a/'.fent !Je ~eat/ or alive 1
Herein alfo muft be confidered what relation the querent hath to the
party quefited, and take the figni6cator accordingly. But, if there be no
relation between them, then take the afcendant, his lord, and the Moon,
to fignify the party that is abfent; and judge thus: If the lord of the
afcendant, or the Moon, be in conjunction with the lord of the eighth, .
or a planet in the eighth, and no benevolent tt"fl:imonies concur, the ab-
fent party is certainly dead. Or when the Moon, and the lord of the
afcenda.nt, 1hall be in oppofition to the lord of the eighth, from the fe-
. cond and eighth, or from the fixth and twelfth, houfes, the abfent party
· is likewife dead.· If the lord of the afcendant be in the fourth, and the
Moon in the feventh, ·iri quartile to him, it iliews great danger to the
quefited, if not abfolute death. When an evil planet iliall tranilate the
light of the lord of the eighth unto the lord of the afcendant, or of the
lo.rd of 'the afcendant to the lord of the eighth, it is moft probable the
abfent party is dead. If the lord of the afcendant and the Moon be in
the fourth houfe from the afcendant, or in the boufe of death, and either
combuft, or in their fall, or joined with the lord of the eighth, the par-
ty quefited is undoabtedly deceafed;; but if none of thefe pofitions -hap-
pen, and on the contrary you find -the Moon, and the afcendant, and its
lord, ftrong and well fortified, the abfent party is alive and well. If the
lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, feparate from the lord of the fixth,
the abfent party has been lately fick s if from the lord of the eighth,
he .has been in danger of death; if from the lord of the twelfth, he has
been in prifon, and fuffered much anxiety of mind. And, by .thus vary-
ing the rule, his condition, according to the application and feparatioa
of the fignifu:ators, will be correCtly found.
Of a Ship at Be.11, htr Sqftty or DdJruflion1
This queftion, although attributed by the ancient Arabian and Latin
aftrologers to the ninth houfe, bec_aufe it relates to voyages, yet the
jadgment hei'C6lf being fuch aspropcrly .relates to the firft ho1.1fc or aken-
dant
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 295
dant, I have f~r that reafon referred it thereto. The parts of the ihip
are thus divided according to the figns of the zodiac•.
¥ The breaft of the tbip tDi That part above the breaft in
\'I U ndcr the breaft toward the the water
water 1lt Where the mariners abide
[:a The rudder or ftern t The mariners
a The bottom or floor J:t The ends of the lhip
'Sl, The top above the water ::: The captain or mafter
• The belly of the thip M The oars.
The afcendant and the Moon are generally fignificators of the dlip, and
the burden lhe bears; but the lord of the afcendant is fignificator of the
perfons that fail in her. And, if inaqueftion all thefeappearfortunate, they
denote profperity to the lhip; but, if on the contrary they are found im-
pedited and afflitl:ed, the velfel and all in her are in imminent danger, if not
abfolutely loft. When a malevolent planet, having dignities in the eighth
houfe, lhall be found in the afcendant, or the lord of the afcendant in
the eighth, in evil afpea with the lord of the eighth, twelfth, fixth, or
fourth, houfe, or if the Moon be combuft under the earth, all thefe are
indications of danger, and prefage the £hip either to be loft, or in a very
defperate condition. But when all the fignificators are free, and no way
impedited, it denotes the ihip to be in a very good and profperous con..
dition, and all the perfons and things on-board her. If the afcendant and
the Moon be unfortunate, and the lord of the afcendant {l:rong, and in a
good houfe, it indicates the thip to be in an ill condition; but the men,
&c. that are on-board her, will do well, and come home in fafety. But
if the afcendant in the Moon lhaH be fortunate, and the lord of the af-
cendant unfortunate, it thews that the vetfel will do well; or that it is in
fafety i but that her crew are in danger of being deftroyed by fome putrid
difeafe, or of being taken by an enemy.
If any perfon.enquires what fuccefs a lhip lhall have in her voyage
upon her fetting fail1 you muft then note the angles of the figure; and
if the fortunate planets and the Moon (for lhe is lady of the feas) are
found therein, and the unfortunate planets cadent, or in an abjeCt con-
dition, it forclhews the lhip and her lading will go very fafely unto the·
intended haven. But if the infortunes be in angles, or in fuccedent
houfes, the will meet with fome accident in her voyage; and the mif..
fortune will fall upon that part of the lhip, perfon) or thing in the fame,
• • Da Signum.¥, peaoribus n~vis; H, ei q_uo~ eft fub peelonous modicum vedus aquam; u,
gubernaculo nav1s; !!l5, fundo nav1s; .n., fumrrutatl nav1s qua: frat fuper equam; I!Jt, ventri nav~s;
~ ei quod fublevat_ur et d~pri~it d~ peetoribus navis .in aqua;. nt, loco u~i morant nauta; t,
ipfi nautz:; 1-J>, ~mbus extftentlbus &n· nave; :.::, maztftro nav1s; M, reiWs.-Haly de Judie.
Aftrol. parts tecna, cap•.I .f.. fol. IIS• ·
No. I S• . + A fignified
Digitized by Coogle
...
\
AN ILLUSTRATION
(Jgaifi~d by the Ggn wher~ the infartune ia pouted~ And, if .the infor..
tune threatening this danger fuall be Saturn, the vetfel will tither bo.
fplit or funk, and moll of the crew either drowned or fubjed: to many
hard(hip,, .But if th' iofortuoate be Mars, and he in 4ny of his etfential
dignities, or afpeCtiog a place where he h~th fhength, or pofitcd io an
earthy fign, \lo ppr-t~ndJ the fame rtlifchief, with the additinnal misfortune
of the crew being ~ithor t"keet by an enemy, imprifoned, or carried into
flavery. But if the fortupef caft their friendly beams. unto either of the
aforefaid p\3(:~l!•.and the lords of the angleli, particularly of the afqendant
and the difpofitor of thQ Moqn, be free, it denotes that, although the Olip
thall undergo much damage, or be loft, yet the major part of the men and
aQGd~ 1h~H he faved. Btu if Mar·s affii~ the lords of the angles, and dif-
PQUtP.~ 9.f ~hc. Mogn, the men and t~ iliip will be in danger of piratea,.
or of a publit ~1\ec:ny. And, if any other ovil a.ffed.iona appear in the figns.
there will he qQarrelli~g and cor\tention. or: fome dangerous mutiny, in
· the thip; ~nd this will ~hiefiy h~ppeo wheo the infor:tunes. are located in
thafe fign~whicb difpofe of t.he part$ in tho upper divifton of the ihip.
But, if Sa•QrQ affii.a in the fame mann~r as abo¥e Ncited of Mars, there
will \le ma.ny diftt,Jrbances in the iliipll but no bloodilied. And,. if the in-
f(lnunat~ fign.s fignify the bottom or lowet part of the iliip, it prefages
drowning \ly me~n.s of fome dangerou.s leak. If iery figns be in the mid-
heaven, tl~r ~iol®t- fixed fta,s,. 'nd Mars prove the afflicting planet, the
~p w.iU ~ bur~t, either by fome accident within he.r, or by lightning,.
or by tb.~ f<,iU\ng of {omQ in.fiamma.ble me.teo.r. Bu.t, if Mars. be in anhu-
1\10\1\' {ign, the butni~g oi the iliip w-
m be occafioned by fome engagement
whh ao enemy~ ~d. t.he danger will begin in that part of the lhip lignified
by t_he fign whe:rcin tbct infortune was placed in. the figure.. If Saturn he
the tb.r<:a~ni~g pl~u\e~ inftead oi Mars,. and pouted in the- mid..heaven.
th~ vdfel will b~ caft a:w$y,. or dam.a.ged by the motioa of violeftt ftwnu
atl~. 'tltinds.. or by reafon of leaks-~ or bad fails; arad the da111ge-r wiU be
either greater or lefs, in proportioo to, tb.e digwt:y- or po:we1 of abc infor..
tune, and his diftance from the beams of the benevolent planets.
If the lor.d of the a.fcend.ant in. the figu'e be fortunate,. th~. Chip {baU
return. with (afety: aod good fu.ccefs ;_bu.t, if he be;u.nfortu.oa.~c:. {he Gull
fgtfer JAUCh lof$ ao~ d<lmage. If the lord of the ei,htli\ ho.u-(~ thall a£..
fl.itt the lord o{ th~ afc~nciAot; Ot if .the lord of tb~ a[,endaat Qc: ip the
eighth, it deoot~s d1,e d~ath of the ca.ptaiQ. o~ utaiet of th.o LWp., 01: fomc
of tbte p~incipal oBic~rs b~loQgiog to her. Aad if tb~ Part.of Fortune
and p~r~ of (ubJl;~ncc;. and their lords~ 4hall be aftlidcd._ it.~c:o.~tes lob,
in the (ale of the goods that are in the ihip. But if, ~nflead of this affiic-
ti,on, .Sey lhaU 8c ia fCMluaatc poflti.Qn·l, it dcnotft m-=h gaitl, and' a
. .Profitable
Digitized by Coogle
,.J.__
.. '
0 F A S 't ll 0 L 0 G Y.
profitable Yoyage. When the lord of the a(cendant, and the difpotitor
of thtt Moon, fha11 be flow of courfe, the thip in all likelihood will make
a long and tedious voyage; more particularly if the lords of thofe places
be flow a1fo. But, if the ftgni6cators be quick in motion, the thip will _
make a lhorter or quicker voyage than may be expeeted. If in the figure
there be enmity in the pofttions between the lord of the afcendant and
the difpo'fitor of the Moon, and no reception between them, nor any aid
from benevolent planets;' the feamen will contend one with another, or
there will be difcord between the' captain, or mafter, and the crew; and·
he whofe fignificator is ftrongeft, {ball overcome: that is if the lord of
the afcendant be moft powerful, the feamen will prevail; but, if the
difpofitor of the Moon be heft fortified, the mafter or captain will ovu..
· come. If the lord of the fecond lhall be remote from his own houfe.
and the fecond honfe from the Moon, and the lord of the part of for-
tune, from the part of fortune, in cadent boufes, or in quartile or oppo-
. fition, it prefages want of necdfary.provifions; and, if they be found ia
aquatical figns, it fltews want of frdh water, arid great danger of death
by hunger and thirft. . · .
QgESTIONS proper to the SECOND HOUSE.
The fecond honfe being the houfc of fubftance, the quefiions prop~
to it are as follow~
1. S~al/ t!Jr ~ermt k rich or poor? ·
2. B] what J.,femz.rjhaHh~ attain Riche.r?
3. crhe Cf'ime when ?
4· Shall he ~btain the Goods or !ffoney lent ?
S· Sball he obtain tbe Wages or Stipend due to !Jim f'
Shall tbe ~erent !Je rich or poor 1
Jn refolving this queftion, obferve the figD _
of the fecond houfeand· itt-
lc!>rd, the planet or pJanets located therein, and caftrng their rays to the·
cufp, or the J.ard thereof; the part of fortune alfo, and its difpofitor; and•.
if aU thefe fignificatovs are free, and affit1:ed by the bodies or afpech of
the benevolent .pla·l'J'ets, the querent will attain a 'f~ry confiderable. for-
tune; ~ad Q\eU efea~~ But when the figmficators are aflltfred1
and the fortunate ftars afford them no affiftan·ce, it denotes the perfon in-
terrogating will be poor all his life-time. If the lord of the afcendant•.
or the Moon, bejoined' to the lord of the houfe of fubftance; or the lord
of the feventh. houfe to the lord of the afcendant; or if the lord of the
boufe of .fubltance be pofited in the afcendant; or if the lord of the af..
cendant and the Meon ~e in the houfe of fubftance; orif the Moon,
0~
..
Digitized by Coogle
AN' ILLUS1~RATION
or any other ·planet, transfers the light of the lord of the fecond houfe tG
the lord of the afccmdant, or of the lord of the afcendant to the lord of
the fecond houfe; the querent will attain riches, and live in good efieem,
according to his fituation or birth. But, if none of thefc poutions hap-
pen, then note Jupiter, the natural fignificator of fubfrance_
; or Venus,
who alfo is a fortune; or the Dragon's head, which always portends
good; and if they be free from the ill beams of the infortunes. or happen.
to be ,polited in the houfe of fubfiance, the querent will moft certainly be
rich, and will bear great (way in the place where he lives. When Saturn,
.Mars~ or the Dragon's tail, are pofited in the fecond houfe, or affiid: the
lord of the fecond, Jupiter, Venus, or part of fortune, it is an argument
that the quereot will not attain riches; or, if he were in a good capacity,
he will be reduced to a very mean fituation. The fignificators of Cub-
fiance fwift in motion, and in good parts of the figure, and free from af.
fliclion, fi1ew the quercnt will be rich of a fudden; but, if they are flow
in motion, though not affiiCled, the quercnt will attain riches but flow-
ly; particularly if the planets fignifying riches are ·ponderous, and in
fixed figns. ·
By what Means foal/ the ~ermt 11ttain Riches ?
The fignificators of fub£l:ance, their !evcral locations, and the houfes
tncy govern, arc in ·this quefrion to be particularly attended to; for
from thence is known by what means riches come. If the lord of the
{econd houfe., or the- other fignificators of fabftance, be fortunately placed
in the afcendant, the querent will attain great riches without much la-
bour, in a manner unexpectedly; but, if the lord of the fecond be in the
fecond, it thews· the querent will obtain an efrate by his own indufrry.
The adjuvant planets fituated in the afcendant, or the lord thereof, denote
the querent will advance himfelf by his own induftry. If the lord of the
fecond be in the fecond, he acquires wealth by merchandi~e, and by
properly managing his bufinefs; if in the third, or lord of the third, he
gains by brethren, kindred, or neighbours. The moft a1fured telHmonies
upon queftions of this nature, are thefe: If the lord of the firfr and fecond,
and Jupiter, be in conjuntl:ion either in the fecond, firft, tenth, fourth,
fcventh, or. eleventh, houfes; or if they apply by fextile or trine to each
other with mutual reception; but if they apply by quartile or oppofition,
with reception, the party will then alfo thrive. and have an eftate, though
with much labour and difficulty.
'.th4 '.time 'IJ?Den a Mllll may attain Riches 1
Confider ferioufly the applications of the Moon, or lord· of the afcen-
dant, unto the ·planet or planets Lignifying the fubftance of ~he querent;
foe
f
Digitized by_
Google
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
,
{ortheyden ote the time when the quercnt may acquire riches. Then
find the degrees of diftancc between the fignificators, and turn them
into time, which willlhew the true diftance of time in which riches, or
the goods of fortOne, arc attainable by the querent. Fixed figns prolong
the bufinefs; but corporal thew an indifferency, or that the time will
neither be long nor lhort. Moveable ~r cardinal figns haften the matter.
In all queftions that relate to time, the furefi way is, to take the right or
oblique afcenfion~ of the fignificators, and dired them to their fc:veral
promittors, as in a nativity; and thus the time of a mao's obtaining
riches may be exactly known; but, if the queftion be offmall confequence,
obferve the degrees of diftance; and, according to the figns they are in,
rneafure out the time in years, months, weeks, or days, as before d:.-
rected. ·
Shall the ~erent o!Jtain the Goods or Money lent F
In this queftion the lord of the afcendant,· and the Moon, are figni-
1 ficators of the querent; and the lord of the fc:cond denotes his fubftance.
,But the feventh houfe and its lord reprefent the perfon of whom you ,
enquire; and the eighth houfe, and the lord thereof, his fubftance. Ob·
ferve whether the lord of the afcendant or the Moon be joined to the
lord of the eighth, who is fignificator of the fubftance of the party en-
quired after; for if either of them be joined to, or in good afpect with, a
planet in the eighth houfe, and the planet therein happens to be a benefic
ftar, the querent fhall then obtain the goods or money enquired after.
And if it fhall fo happen, that an infortune be either in the eighth houfe,
or lord of the eighth, and receives either the lord of the afcendant or the
Moon, the perfon' enquiring fhall obtain what he expeds; but not . '!"
without reception. When the lord of the eighth is pofited in the firft or
fecond houfe, and the lord of the fecond lhall receive him, it denotes the
perfeaion of the bufioefs enquired after. But, if the lord of the feventh
or eighth ihall be pofited in the firft or fecond, and be not received by
either the lord of the afcendant, the Moon, or lord of the fecond, it
.thews the querent will not only go without his defire, but, if he purfues
the bufinefs, will fuftain much lofs and detriment. If the lord of the
afcendant or the Moon be joined to one of the fortunes, which have
dignity in the fign afcending, it denotes the 'difpatch of the bufinefs en- .
quired after,; or if either of them be joined to an infortune, having dig-
nities in the afcendant, and receives the lord of the afcendant, or the
Moon, it denotes the accompliihment of the matter or.bufioefs enquired
after. .And, if the f~rtunes be in powerful places of the figure, and
joined to the lord of the afcendant or the Moon, the matter 9C bufinefs
will be accomplilhed, although there be no reception.
No. 15. . 4 B lJ
o;gitized by Coogle
jOO AN ILLUSTRATION
Q the §l.yertnt jha/1 o!Jtain his Wages, Salary, Pe~fion, or Property, dut.
either from Government orfrom an Individual.
Behold the afcendant, the lord of the fame, and the Moon, for they
have fignification of the querent; and the fecond from the afcendant,
which is the querent's houfe of fubftance, and its lord. And note the
tenth houfe and its lord, ·which are the fignificators of the quefited. And
the eleventh houfe, and its lord, fignify the fubftance of him or them.
If in the figure the lord of the afcendant or the Moon be joined to the
lord of the eleventh, or to a fortunate planet in the eleventh houfe, with-
out let or impediment, the querent will certainly obtain the wages or
falary. And if it iliall happen that the Moon or lord of the afcendant
be joined to a malefic planet, and an unfortunate planet receives them,
the querent will then obtain his defire, although it will be after long
waiting and with many felicitations. But if there be no reception be-
tween the lord of the afcendant, the Moon, and the infortune, notwith-
ftanding any oppofition between them, )·et the querent wiiJ rarely ob-
tain his money or falary enquired after. If the fignificators are in friendly
afpetl: from good houfes of heaven, and this without impediment or hin-
drance, the querent will be fuccefsful; but, if infortunes impede the
ftgnificator of the querent•s good, confider what houfe he is lord of, and
that will point out the perfon or thiag that obftructs it.
JUDGMENTS proper to the THIRD HOUSE.
This houfe appertains to brethren, fifters, kindred, and neighbours; to
inland journeys, aod rumours; aod therefore thefe queftions are particu-
larly moft proper to it: ·
t. Sba/1 the ff<.!!erent and bis Brethren, &c. or Neigh/Jours, accord?
2. Ofthe Condition and Ejlate ofan aijenl Brother?
3. Shall the !l(gerent's inland Journeys /Je pro.JPerous ·F
4· Reports and Rumours, whether true orfo!P?
_
5· Ofthe .Advice ofa Friend, &c. ifgood or /Jad F
Many other queftions may be propounded, that properly pertain to this
houfe; but whoever undedl:ands the manner of judging thefe, may tvith.
cafe anfwer any other that may be propofed.
Shall the ~erent and his Brethren, &c. or Neigh!Jours, accord.?
The Moon, the afcendant, and its lord, are the fignificators .of the
querent; and the third houfe, and its lord, of the quefited. The q!Jefiion
is rcfolved thus: If the lord of the third houfe be a benevole.At planet,.
and
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
and in the a(cendant; or .the Moon be in good afpefl with a fortunate
planet in the third,- the querent and his brethren and neighbours will'
agree well. When the lord of the afcendant and lord of the third are in
fextile or trine to each other, and in mutuJl reception; or the lord of the
third cafis a fextile or trine to the cufp of the afcendant; and the lord of
the afcendant or the Moon cafis the fame to 1he cufp of the third houfe;
it is an argument of great unity, love, and concord, between them. When
a fortunate planet is in the afcendant, and the lord of the afcendant be..
. holds the cufp of the third, or applies friendly to the lord of the third, it
is an argument of agood difpofition in the querent, and fpeaks him willing
to accord with his brethren, kindred, and neighbours. And if a fortune
be in the third, and the lord of the third apply in harmony to the lord of
the afcendant, the brethren, kindred, or neighbours, are moil indulging.
Thofe perfons whofe fignificators do not apply are m0ft imperious, and
apt ta dif.1gree; and thofe, whofe fignificators make application, are flexi-
ble, willing, and yielding, and defirous of agreement and concord. When
Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, in fuch a queilion, thall be in the ,
afcendant, it denotes the perfon enquiring to be obfiinate, and averfe
to a fr-
iendly agreement; but if they, or either of them, are pofited in
the thir-d houfe, the brethren, neighbours, and kindred, are of a malicious
difpofition. And, if it happens that Saturn or Mars be peregrine, re-
trograde, or combuft, the malice and mifchief they threaten will be the
more dangerous. When Saturn or the Dragon's Head are in the third,
the neighbours are obfiinate, and the kindred covetous and fparing. If
Mar~. ~he kindred are treacherous, and the neighbours dithoneft. And
this is more certain, when they are out of their eifential dignities.
Of the Conditton and Ejlate qf an abfint Brother?
To refolve this queftion, confider the lord ·of the third houfe, for that
hath lignification of brethren; and the houfe where he is pofited, becaufe
that {hews the ftate and condition of the quefitcd. For if the lord of the
third be in conjunCtion, quartile, or oppofition, of the infortunes, ·or in
evil afpect of the loFds of the obfcure houfes, the c~ndition of the brother
is forrowful; but if on the E:ontrary he be in good afpect with the for-
tunes, and in propitious places of the figure, his condition is good·and
profperous. If the lord of the third he pofited in the fourth, in no evil
afpect of the m:lkvolents, the brother that is abfent hath an intention
tQ enrich himfelf in the place where he is; for the fourth houfe is the
fecond from the third. If the lord of the third be pofited in the fifth,
in conjunCtion with the lord of the fifth, with or without the reception
of the fortunes, it !hews the abfc:nt brother to be in he{llth and very happi-
ly fituated. But if the lord of the third houfe be in the fifth, void of coutfe,.
01'
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
or in. corporai conjuriClion, or malicious afpeet of the infortunes, and
this without reception, and the unfortunate planets themfelves im--
peded, it declares the abfent brother in a bad condition, indifpofed in
health, and not contented in the place where he is. But if he be found
in any of the obfcure puts of the figure, which are naturally evil, as the
fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes.. the abfent brother is not well, nor in
a ·profperous fituation. Wh!n the lord of the third is found in the eighth,
either in conjunCtion, fextile, or trine, of one of the fortunes, the abfent
brother is not well; or if the lord of the third be joined to evil planets
in the fixth houfe, or in conjunction with the lord of the fixth, he is
then in an infirm and fickly condition; and if the lord of the fixth be in
the third, except tho lord of the third be well difpofed, it denotes the
fame. Then note whether the lord of the third be in conjunCl:ion with
the lord of the eighth, or in combufiion; .for fuch a configuration· de..
clares he will die of the infirmity. But, if the lord of the third be in the
feventh, the brother is in the fame country he went into at firfi, and con-
tinues there; and his condition is neither well nor ill. If the fignificator
be in the eighth, the abfent brother is in danger of death, particularly
if he be combufi, or in conjunClion with the lord of the eighth, in con-
junction or afpeCl: of the infortuoes; for thefe are ll:rong arguments of
death. When the lord of the third is in the ninth, it denotes that the
abfent brother is removed from the place he firfi went to, and is gone
into a more remote country. And if he be in tl;le tenth, in conjunci:.ion
or good afpeCl of the fortunate planets, and with receptiqn, it denotes
him to have acquired fome honour, office, or preferment, in the place
where he lives. But, if he be in conjunction, quartile, or oppofition,
of the infortunes, combufi, or any other way infortunated, it is to be
feared the abfent brother is dead. If the lord of the third be in the
eleventh houfe, in conj unCl:ion, fextile, or trine, ·of the fortunes, or in
conjunCtion with the lord of the eleventh, it denotC'S the abfent brother
to be at th~ houfe or place of fome friend, where he is happy and welhs
but, if.he be malicioufly beheld of the unfortunate planets, he is not
plcafed with the fituation he is in, but is grieved and perplexed. The
fignificator of the abfent party, in the twelfth hpufe, in conjunCtion or
good afpeCl: of the fortunes with reception, and the fortunes themfdves
no way impeded, thews he will deal in merchandize, and gain riches;
but, if he be infortunated in the twelfth hon{e, either by the bad afpeds
of the malevolents, or by the lord of the eighth, or in combufiion, it
fuews the abfent brother to be difcontented, troubled, and perplexed, and
no~ likely to fee the land of his nativity again.
shall
Digitized by Coogle·
0 F A S T It 0 L 0 G Y.
Sht~/1 the ~trmt's inland JOIIrneys 6t prqjptrous r
Perfons who travel much in the country where they live. and have not
their nativities to direCt them, may have occafion to enquire the event of
lome intended journey ; for we know thofe that travel much fio not al-
~ays travel fafe; but fometimes are in danger either of thieves, ficknefs,
oraccidents, upon their journeys, that may occafion them to repent the un-
dertaking of them. Now, for the prevention of fuch accidents, and to en-
able the ~.eader to refolve quefiions of this nature, let the following rules
be obferved :-Give the afcendant and his lord, and the Moon, to the
querent; the thir~ houfe and lord thereof to lignify the journey.; and if the
1igni~cators be fwift in motion, or in the e1fential dignities of each other,
or in c~mjund:ion, fextile, or trine, to each other, in good places of the
figure, the journey will be good· and profperous. Or if the Moon be
in the third, in fextile to the afcendant, or the lord of the third caft a
textile or trine to the afcendant, or .be in the fame; and the lord of the
afcendant well dignified in the third; they alfo denote a: fafe and plea-
fant journey. If the lord o( the afcendant or Moon apply to any planet
in the third houf~, or the lord of the thir~ . to a planet in the afcen-
dant, it likewife denotes the journey enquired after to be pleafant. Or,
if Jupiter or Venus be in the third houfe, it lhews a profitable and de-
lightful ~~
1ey; particularly if they caft a fextile to the afcendant. The
Dragon·~-: · ·J.n.the third houfe 1hews the fame. When Saturn, Mars,
or the Dragon~, are pofited in the third houfe, or afflict the lord
thereof, or the Moon, it portends an unlucky journey to the querent, and
very ill fuccefs therein. Saturn fuews the querent to be melancholy and
penfive in his journey J Mars and the Dragon's Head lhcw him to be in
danger of thieves and robbers; and, if they are in human figns, oc fiery,
ir denotes him to be lamed or wounded in his journey.· When the lord
of the afccndant is retrograde, the qucrent will return again before he
hath gone to the place he intended ; and, if the fignificators be 11ow, ho
makes but little bafte or fpecd in his journey. If the lord of the fixth
afilid: the fignificators, the querent will fall fick by the way; if the lord
of the twelfth, he will be impeded by malicious people; and, if the lord
of the eighth be the afHid:ing planet, it lhews .danger of death J partifu-
larly if the fignificatora are near violent fixed ftars. ·
<r Rtports and Rumours, whtthtr trut orfa!ft 1 ,
This queftio~ may be anfwered thus :-Obferve.thc lord of the afcen-
dant and ·the Moon, and the difpofitor of the Moon, and fee if either of
them be in an angle or fuccedent houfe in a fixed fign, or in good af~ct
with Jupiter, the Sun, or Venus; for ufually, upon fuch configurations,
· No. 15. 4 C the .
Digitized by Coogle
. .
A N I L L U ·s T R A T I 0 N
th~ reports and rumours are true. But if the lord of the afcenqant or
the Moon be affiicted of Saturn or Mars, ·or cadent from ln angle, al-
though they be ftrong in the fign where they are, yet the rumour is falfe.
Rumours are alfo true and good when the angles of the figure an: fixed
figns, and the Moon and Mercury in fixed figns, feparating from the in-
fortunes; and applying to a fortune pofited in any of the angles of the
figure. So alfo when the angles of the tenth and fourth houfes are fixed,
and the Moon £hall be received in either of them, although the rumours
and reports be of an evil nature, yet they will hold true. If the fortu. A
nate planets Jupiter and Venus lhatl be in the afcendant, and the Moon,!>'
at the fame time unfortunate, Jet the rumours or reports be ever fo mif-
chievous and unlucky, they will be fure to prove falfe, and come to no-
thing. Mercury being retrograde or otherways afHitl:ed, 'declares ill ru·
·mours to be falfe ; the like doth the afBiB:ioo of that planet to whom
Mercury or the Moon appliea. If the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
fuall be under the Sun beams, the truth of the rumour is kept fecret by
men in power, and few £hall know the truth thereof. If the Moon be
void of conrfc, or in quartile or oppofition of Mercury; and qeitber of
them cafi: their fextile or trine afpeas to the afcendant, the ·news Ot' ru-
mour is vain and falfe, and may be fafely c:ontradifred.
ne .AJ.uice if a Friend, VJIJether good or ~ad I
It fometimea happens that neighbours or friends, in fundry-dlfJX11lt er
embarra1fed circumfi:ances, will advife and perfuade a per(oo. what he hall
bcft to do in fuch a cafe1 and, if it be required to know whether they in-
tend faithfully, or pcrfidioufly, by fuch advice, e~ed:. your figure· to the
moment of tiDM they irfi: drop their counfcl, and judge u follows :-Be-
held the mid-heaven, that being the houfc Lignifying advice, aod fcc if
there be any fortunate ftat or pJ.anct pofitcd therein l for then the CQUnfcl
or advice ia {erioaa and good, aod will be proper to follow. But, if ao
infortune be f~nd in the tenth houf•, the friends that pretend c:~t
ad 8eceitf~aUy, and intend knavi1hly. . _·'
JUDGMENTS proper to the FOURTH H.OlJSE•.
The fourth houfe gives judgment on po1feffions, inheritances, laods, or.
houfes; and of things loft and miflaid; of the father, &c. and hath 'thefc
quefi:ions proper to it, viz.
J. S/Ja/1 t!Je ~ermt t-rc!Jafl t!Je IltJUji Dr Lad J9rwl1 ·
2. Of tbe ~uo/ity, t/Mr«!f, andfoal/ tit, ~aerinl 'do·w,e/J. ttJ 141t rt1-
- 3r ff it 6e 6!/1fQr '"' to rt1111JtJt, ,,. ditk wllnre·hr is I
+· Of l!iJde11 'Ireilf~~re, if AUtliiUI!Ie I .
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T ·tt 0 L 0 0 Y,
J• If t&,t t(nt!fort hidd111 itr.tht- Plactfoppofld'
6. sbtzll tht ~trtnt tnjlj tiH B}J411 of his Father I
Thefe queftions, being once refolved, will lead the artift· to the under-
ftanding of any thing of the like nature.
. I '
S!Ja/ltht Jtutrtnl purchtife tht Hou.ft or Lana J¢rtd 1
' '
. To refelve thiJ qnftion~ gite tbe afcendant and his lord, and the Moon.
to r-.nify him that enqaircs J t~ tign of the fourth houfe and lord
thereof te fignify the thing quefit~. If the lord of t'be afc~ndant, or the
Moos, be in the .foutth boule, or the lord of the fourth in the firft, or if
eitbQr oftbem are mconjwn&ioh with tho lord of the fourth, or in fextile
or trine to him with reception, it . declare& the· accomplHhment of the
thing without impediment or hindranc:t. But if tfley ·are joined without
rcceptioo. or ia qvartile or oppofitioo wid1 ~feD reception, the C}\te-
tent !Jlay pofiibly obtain his defire. Or if the fignificators be not/•oined
toFthe.-,. citbcr by body or alpctt, yet, if thore be a tranftation o ligh1
bctwc~o the•,. either bJ!tbe Mooe or · a~ther planet,· it thews ·a · poe.
Jibility of the pur<:haft, tbo6gb' with much ditficuHy and trouble•
.The £ollo1rU.g.is a1fo a good method t<; judge fif this trueftion :-Gi.-o
tnc.figa aiceaciing. and the lord thereof, and the planet from whom the
Moon is 1epatated, to the que:rent or· partbafer; the feventh hoo{e and'
hie k)rd, ·the planet or planeu pofited tberei-flt, · and ~he Moen, tO' ftgoify
th• thing to·be bought or 'pllrdbafed J and the mid·beave~ to fignify the
pri€e shercof. And if in yo~ agore tho lord of the 11fcendant·behola the
lord 0f the fevcnth, and tlie lorct of the feventh apply to· t'he·lord of the
afceodant, the feller. hath a.great deUte. to deal with the buyC1' J and if they
chance to be in each other,s dignities, or any good tranfiation of light hap- ·
pen be~ween the~, o~ if ~hey app.ly to corporal c~njunction, the que-
reot Will agrtc w1th tbe f~11e't Wtthou~ much ctifli&alty or trooble.
But, if the application o~ tranfiation. of light be by quartile or oppoU.tioa~
the bttyer and ~llet will at taft agree; but it will 6e with. much labour
and lofs of tfme, and> after many probabiHties of breaking ofT. If the
lOJd--of the afccndant~ or the Moon, apply to the lord ef the.fourth; or if_
..
the ro1d d the ~ttth-, or the Moon, apply to the lord·of tbeafcendant •
or if the lord of the fourth aloll'C lhalf apply to ~he lord ~f the afcen-
datrt, and tbnc bo·a receptioft between tbcm; or ifthe lord of the afcen-
dana, or the Moon, ·be ift tbc fo\lrth, or lord of the fo'Urlh in the afcen-
dant J they denote the ~party enquiring O:lall buy or purchllfe the land or
inher-itance en~ red: after• . But, if neither. ot thefe happen·, yet, if the
M-oon thall.traJWfitr the light of oDe JignificatOI' to 'the othct, it denotes ·
. that
Digitized by Coogle
AN l L LUSTRA T·I 0 N
that the thing will be perfeaed by the mediation of friends, or by me~n­
gers. But, if there be no application, recepti~n, or tran.Ouion of light,
between them, then it is improbable that any thing thall be concl~;~dcd
between them. ·
. -
Ofthe ~uality ofthe Purchqft, and ~hether the ftuertnt do~s vul~ ttJ take it1
Ta·ke the fourth houfe to refolve this interrogatory; and if the two
unfortunate planets · arc pofited therein, either potent· or pe~grine, the
thing enquired afte£ will be ~a~ed by :.the buyer; and at:pretbnt_is io.no:
very good condition. If the lord of the fourth be infortu~ated, .either'
by retrogradation,. detriment, fall, or peregrination, it!denbta t~e-houfe
or land to be .bad, or fo encumbered: that. it •w~Jl. never conti'rlde 1J.ong·
with ·thc .pur.chafer. B~. if.the fdrtunate planet• or thei Drtagdo'lf Tai1'be·
in the fourth boule, it ili~ws the .bu6oefs enquired:aftec: co be goo!!';' and '
the buyer or purchafcr 1hall be a gainer thereby. Wpea· .the furtopate ·
•planets call: their benevolent rays ucuo .the fourth ·honfc, and the lotd of:
the fourth dlall be p9fited in ~ gpqd houfe, in fextile or trine to the fc-
c~nd houfe or its lord, it is an argument that t~c lrar'gain is .g.ood, and
the pu~cha£er 1hall be a gajnc:r.tbe.rf!by. If Aries,_Leo,. or _Sagittari~s, be
upon the cufp of t~e fourth houfe, it denotes an efhte to be hilly, ~3:rd, ~nd
dry. If. Taurus, Virgo, 9C' Capdcorn, the land is"level, . and very good.
If Gemini, Libra, or Aquaries, ~he ground is fome part high and fomc ·
low; and is in qu.ality neiJQer very good nor very bad. ,If Cancer, Scor-
pio, or Pifces, it abounds: 'Yith~ much water. ·An ·unfortu"'ate;planet in
the fourth, rctrograd~, · th~ws the laqd or h01lfe·will torn ~.out very un-
lucky, and not_b~ ':"Orth the t~kin.g, and will be accompanied with many ·
infelicities; but if a fortunate planet be pofited there thong, the land is
good, and may well invite the qucrcnt to go on, for he will have a good
b~r&~~· .. .: · ~
. . ' . • . • j • ·• ) • . . )
· ·. . .·If!Jejlfor a Peifon.to rtmiJ'IJe, 01: 11/Jide Jlil1&.e· he is?
In; this qu~fiion give the afcendant~ and·: th~ lord ~h;reof to ngnify ·.
the querent; the feventh houfe and lord thereof, t.o . fignify the pl·acc lJ
to which he would go; tqe fourt~. houfe and his ~9r,d,;ithe fuWI;ane• ·ef;;::-Jt;.,..) ,
•ll• ttttutats and the ten* boufe and 11~~ l9rd, th~ profit of removal. ~
The lord of the afcendant or fourth in .thcs fevCAlh, and tbc lord of the
afcendant aod feventb, fortunate planets, f~ift in mQtioo~ ftroag, and po- ·
tent where they arc, the queren~ then will do well _
to remain where he is,
and not remove. Butif the lord of thcr feventh be with a good planet, :
and the lord of the afcendan~ or fourth ~ifh; ~ ~vil ,one, tb:e qucrent had .
better remove, for he·wil~· get,litde by.~~in~Ji~g where he it. Fortu- .
·2 nate
· Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 30]
nate planets in the afc_endant or fourth may invite the querent to remain
where he is. -If the lords of thofe houfes are in conjunCtion or in good
afpetl: with fortu~ate frars, it denotes the fame. Unfortunate planets
in the afcendant or fourth 1hew the querent it is good to remove; and
if the lords of the.afcendant and fourth be affiicted by the malefics,
either by body or afpet1, it denotes the fame. Obferve the affiicting
planet or planets, and the houfe or houfes they govern, for from theneo
-the occafion of the mifchief that the querent fuftains is known; the
like obferve of the :tffiil.ing or friendly planets, whence a rational anfwer
to the queftion prop6fed will be eafily obtained. -
Of CJ'rea.fures hid, whether attainable or not?
It is opt uncommon for· penurious perfons to hide treafure in their
life-time, and go out of the world without informing their· heirs or
executors where to find it. Whenever this is fufp~Red to be the cafe.
and a quefrion- is grounded upon it, erea your figure, and confider what .
application, rccepti~n, tranfiation, &c. there may be between th~ lords
of the afcendant and fourth houft:. If there· be a friendly application
and reception, the perfon enquiring £hall obtain the treafure he enquires
after; but, if there be a quartile or,oppofition between the fignificators,
· without the reception, the treafure will rarely be found. When
the fignificators apply to each other corporally in a fixed fign, there are
great hQpcs of finding and obtaining the fame fpeediLy; particularly
if the ap'plication be in a good houfe. Both or either of the luminaries in
the afcendant no way unfortunate, or friendly beholding the fame,
argues a fpeedy recovery of the treafure hid; but, if they lhould
happen to be cadent, or in quart.ile or oppofition thereto, it gives
but fmall hopes. If the part of fortune be in the afcendant, beheld
by fortunate planets, or by the luminaries, the qu_erent will have a
fair profpect of acquiring his wilhes; .but, if the part of fortune and
the luminaries be cadent, particularly the Moon; and neither of the
lights call a friendly afpetl: to the part of fortune, or to the afcendant;
nor the lord of the afcendant beholding the afcendant; it is an argument
that the querent will not obtain the treafure hid. - I always find, in quef-
. · tions of this nature, when· fortunate planets are in the fourth, or
govern the fourth, that there is treafure; and, if the lord of the af-
cendant, or the Moon, be in good afpetl: with thofe planets, the que-
rent generally attains it by diligent fearch. But. on the contrary,
if infortupes be in the fourth houfe,· or the· luminaries weak 'thetein, it
is an argument of irrecovery;. or thews that it has been taken away be-
fore.
No~ IS. 4 D Is
'
Digitized by Coogle .~
AN ILLUSTitATIOM
Is_lht Cfrttifure hidden i11 the Pillet fopp~d1 .
· A qudHon being thus. in a general way propoukaedi' give the lord-. oi
the afceodant and the Moon to· the quec:ent for his ft~ni6cators; and
the fourth houfe, and the planet or planets pofited therein, wiU ti-gnify
the treafure enquired after. When Jupiter, Venus.,. or the Dragon's.
Head, are ia the fourth boufe, they declare the .treafui"e to be in th~
place fuppo.fed·;. and, if they be in their effential dignities, it is-very
certain that there is great value there. Or if any of the other planeta
are pofited in their own houfes, or in the fou~th houfe without impedi-
.meot, it £hews that there is treflfure in. the place fuppofod. But if .the
fourth houfe be infortunated with the Dragon's Tail, or Saturn or Mars
be there, and no way e.ffentially dignified; or if Saturn or Mars ca·ft a
quartile or oppofition thereunto; there is no treafure at aU. The _lord of
the fourth, or the Moon, feparati:ng from good planets, £hew that there has
been treafure hid in the p•ce fuppofed, but that it is gos:ae.
Shall the ~tr!_nt enjoy the E)/ate of his Father?
This queO:ion is oftentimes of gre~t importance to the propoacnt,. and.
therefore aught to be contemplated with more than ufual acucenefs~ If
in the figure, judicioufly eteB:ed, ·and correCt to time, the lord of the fe.
CQnd and lord of the fifth are found in the mntual digoitiea of each
other; or the lord of the fecond in the fifth, or ·the lord oi th.e fifth in
the fecond, the querent will enjoy the efiate of bios fittbcr. Bae i£ the.
lord of the fifth houfe be retrograde, or affiitl:ed by fame malevolent pla-
net, it prefages that much of the efi:ate which the querc:nt's father intend-
ed for him will be wafted,. or otherways difpofed of.. When the lord of
the fifth difpofes of the part of f0rtunc in the afceadut, or iecond
h'Oufe of the figure, there is no fear but the querent will enjoy what he
expeCts from his father. The lord of the afcendant, or fecond hou~,.
diipofing of the lord of the fifth, 1hews the thing enquired after to be fo
fc:cured to the querent that he cannot be deprived of it. The MOQO: traaf..
ferring the light of the lord of the fiftb by fextile or trine, to the howe of
the fecond, or lord of the afcendant, declares the quetl:i:on eaquircd af-
ter fuahl come to good; or if jupiter or Venus in.. the fifth ilall friendly
behold the lord of the (ccond, or a planet i~ the fecond, it figni6.cs the
fame. If the lord of tb.a fecond and fifth apply to a good afped:,. or a. cor-
poral conjunction by retrogradation,. the querent will re:cei-H.fame of
his fathel:'s eftate very thortly, and in his: father's. life-tUtu:: but if the
-lord of the fourth be in afped with an infortune, or an infortune in the
fourth, it denotes the father will DOt part with any thing till his death.
JUDG·
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y.
JUDGMENTS proper to the FIFTH HOUSE.
This houfe appertaiJSs to the birth of children, embaffies, metfengers,
&c. and hath thefc quefl:ions proper to it.
I. Whetjer 11 H'1fiiMI.fha/1e'Uer haw Children·?
2. In 'lllbat 'l'ic-e }bailjht cfJnceive ?
3· Whether a Womtm tllfJttiring be with Child 1
4· Whether foe 6t pregnaot VJith a BOJ or Girl?
5. Shallfhe btWe '['wins?
6. When willthe Birth hgppen?
7. Ofa Mdfengerflnt on an Em64fy f
And, by knowing how to refolve thefe queilions, the reader will be
able to anf~er any others belonging to this houfe.
; ·~
JIThtther a Woman foalJ f!#ller hti'Ve Children 1
-
To anfwer this queftion, carefully obferve the afcendant, its lord,
and the Moon; and, if either of them be joined to the lord of the fifth,
the querent lhall have children. But, if neither of thefe happen, note
whether any other planet transfer the light of the Jord of the afccndant .
to the lord of the fifth; for that is an argument that the querent may
have children. Confider alfo whether the fign upon the fifth be fruitful, of.,(~­
and whether the lord of the fifth, the Moon, the afcondant, and its "'jr~/ ~ --/
lord, are in1Rrolific- figns, for, if fo, it is an a1fured argument that the
quereg-t will have iffoe. If the: lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, be
pofited in the fifth houfe, the querent will have children; or, if the lord
of the fifth houfe be in the afcendant, it declares the fame. If neither
the lord of the afcendant, nor the Moon, apply to the lord &f the fifth,
yet, if there be a tranflation of light and virtue betweert t~m, the que-
rent need not doubt of having children. But if aU the fignificators be
in fterile figns, and in defettive deg~es of thofe fign·s, the querent wiH
rarely have 1.ft"ue. So alfo, if Venus, the general fiRnificatrix of childre'l\
or iffue, be affliCted, either by the prefence of Saturn, Mars, or the
Dragon'·s T ail, or combuft of the Sun, the querent will not .have chil-
dren. Saturn or the Drago_n's Tail in the fitth, or affiiBing the lord of
the fifth, generallv denies iffue; and if Saturn or Mars be in quanile o-r
oppofition to the fifth houfe, or its l'ord, it porteods the fame••La-fi~y,_
confider the planets Jupiter and Venus; and, if yott find either of them
in the fifth., third, ni,nth, or eleventh, houfes. free from all impedi- .
rnent, the q,uerent will certainly have children.
In
Digitized by Coogle
310 AN ILLUSTRATI 'ON
In what q'ime jhalltht Woman conceive f
Having before found a poffihility of iffu~~ it" may be afked when the
t_ime lkall be<; to anfwer which, obferve in what fign the lord of tb'e
· l1fth houfe is pofited, and ~hat planet or planets are in cogfigurat?On
with him; for, if h~! be in the afcendant;. fifth or ele\·enth houfes, in
fruitful figns, and with fr.uitful planets, the querent may fpeedily con-
';eive. If the l.ord of the fifth be in the firfi: houfe, -the querent may
conceive, in the fidl. year; if in t~e fecond, the {econd year; if in the
tenth, the third year; if in the (eventh, the fourth year; if in the
fourth houfe, the fifth year; .and fo on. Or, having noted the capacity
and condition of the- qucrent for conception, obferve the diftance be...
tween the friendly afpects of the l\t1oon, or lord of the afcendant, with
the lord of the fifth, and Jupiter or Venus, and judge of the 'time. thus:
If they are in moveable figns, their degrees of difi:ance fhew weeks or
· days; in common figns, . months or weeks; . in fixed figns, years or
months, &c• .as before direcl:ed in qaefiions that relate to time.
!fa Woman enquiring !Je with Cht1d?
It fometimes happens that a woman has reafon to believe· ilie is with
child; and yet, owing to. fome internal complaint, may be in doubt
about it,. and by that means be led to aik the queftion, whether fhe be
or not? The queftion is found by thefe rules: If the Jotd of the afcen-
dant, or the Moon, behold the lord of the fifth with any good a{pect or
tranflation; or they, or either of them,· happen to be pofited in the fifth
houfe; the woman enquiring is with child. And, when the fignifica-
tors apply friendly, or are pouted in fruitful figns, and in fruitful houfes
alfo, c1"S the fifth, eleventh, and feventh, the party enquiring is with
child. The lord of the afcendant, or lord of the fifth, afpetl:ing a pla-
net with reception in an angle, and the Moon in reception with a planet
effentially fortified in an angle, alfo fhews the querent to be. pregnant.
Jupiter, the natural fignificator of children, in the afcendant, fifth, fe-
venth, or eleventh, houfes, no way afflicted of the infortunes, denotes the
querent to be with child. But if Jupiter be afflicted, orcadent, thewo-
man enquiring is not with child. If the lord of the tenth, and the Sun,
,be in good places of the figure, and in friendly configuration with the
benefics, th~ woman enquiring is with child. Likewife, if the Moon,
and theJord,of the triplicity fhe is in, be well located in figns .of many
children, .as Cancer, Scorpio or Pifces~ the woman has conceived.
So alfo, if Jupiter and Venus be pofited in angles, free from the ma-
licious beams of the infortunes, the woman is certainly with child. But,
it the fignificators are affliCted of Saturn, Mars, .or the ~gqn's Tail,
the
•
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. ·
the woman is not ·with child, but is troubled with fome complaint
which lhe hath miftaken for conception. The pofitions of Saturn,
Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, in the fifth, likewife lhew non-conception;
but, if it happens that the teftimonies for her being with child are the
gn~arer in number, they then threaten abortion; and the fame when they
affiid either Venus, the Moon, or the lord of the fifth houfe, or the
afcendant.
Whethtr the Woman 6t pregnant with a Boy or Gir/1
To anfwer this queftion, obferve the afcendant, and ita lord, the fifth
houfe and the lord thereof, toget~9' with the Moon, and planet to which
1he applies; for, if they, or mottjthem, be in the mafculine figns, the
querent is with child of a boy J but, if in feminine 6gns, it is a girl.
The faid 6gnificators, though in feminine figns, yet if they are in afpect
with mafculine planets, and in hou{es mafcuJine, and with ftars .of a
mafculine nature and difpofition, the woman will have a male child.
Mafculine planets are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and the Sun; the fc:minine
are Venus and the Moon; Mercury is io its nature convertible, and is
either mafculine or feminine according to the planet or planets he is in
afped: with. Signs of a mafculine difpofition, or nature, are Aries, Ge-
mini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and Aquaries. And feminine figns are
Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Pifces ~ which being
well obferved, the {ex is eafily difcovered.
Shalljht IJII'Ut TflJins, or mort than ont 1
Confider the fign upon the a{cendant, and where the. lord thereof is
pofited, and what fign is upon the cufp of the fifth houfe; for, if the
1ignificators are in bicorporal or double-bodied figns, the querent will
"'ery probably have two children. If Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's
Head, be in a fruitful fign, either in ~he fifth or atcendant, it is poffible
for the querent to have three children; particularly if the Moon Ieoda
her affift.ance. But, if thefe planets are not pofited in the afcendant, or
bfth houfe ; yet, if they caft their friendly rays to either of them, it is
an argument that the querent will have twins. But, if fixed figns, or
moveable, poffe{s the cufpa of the afcendant or fifth houfe, and the Sun
or Moon be pofited therein, it is a certain argument that the woman is
breeding with but one child. .
WhenJ or i'n what ~imt, will tht Birth happen1
To refolve this queftion, regard muft be had to the figni6cators as well
ofthe child as of the perfon enquiring' and to the part ot" children alfo, (as
No. 16. 4 E will
/
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUS1.-RATIO'N
will be explained hereafter~) which muft be dired:ed by the oblique a{cen~
fions, &c. to the degree of the fifth houfe or its lord, or to Jupiter, or
to his good afpecb; and, by allowing a day to each degree of diftance, the
time of birth will be nearly found. This is difcovered by confidering
what direCtion or tranfit there may be either to the fifth houfe, or to Ju-
piter, Venus, or the Moon, for at that time the woman. may be delivered;
particularly if the; true tranfit or direCtion falls in the fifth, eleventh, or
afcendant.
Ofa Mejfengerflnt on an Em!Jajfy, or on any important Bt!finifs 1
When this queftion is propofed, give the afcendant and its lord to
him that fent the meffenger; the feventh boufe and its lord to fignify
him to whom the meffenger is fent; and let the Moon fignify the meffage
itfelf; and the lord of the fifth the meffenger, and his management or
ordering of the bufinefs. When the lord of the fifth houfe lhall feparate
from the lord of the feventh, and apply to the lord of the afcendant,
then judge the meffenger hath affeCted his bufinefs, and is returning again.
And, if he feparates from the lord qf the fecond, he then brings money
with him, Jet the fignificator of that houfe be either a fortune or infer-
tune. If the fignificator of the meifenger feparates from fortunate planets,
it is an argument he has been honeA:, and will bring good tidings of the
bufinefs ; but, if he feparates from the malevolents, ·it thews the mef..
{enger has done his bufinefs lamely, or has been hindered in the per-
formance of it•. If the fignificator of the meifenger applies to an infer-
tune by quartile or oppofition, and this before he can· feparate from the
lord of the feve1;1th, it .fignifics that the meffenger has met with fame
impediment in the bufinefs he went about from the party to whom he
was feot. But, if the fignificator of the metfenger iliall go to the quar-
tile or oppofi tion of either of the infortunes, after he is feparated from
the lord of the feventh; the meffenger will receive fome prejudice or
impediment in his way home. If there be found an infortune in the
ninth, the meffenger will not travel fafe, but will b.e in danger of high-
way robbery, and bodily hurt; but if, on the contrary, a benefic be·ia
the ninth, he will travel fc1fe. If the lord of the afcendant and lord of
the fifth are in receptiotl, or in good afpea from good places of t~e figure.
the mtfft:nger is faithful, ju{l, and honeA:; particularly if he be either a
fortune, or in good afpeet with a fortune. But, if there be no ~eceptio.n
or afpeH, and the configuration be with or in the dignities of an infortune,
the contrary ma.y be expected. If there happens a reception between
the lord of the feventh and the lord of the fifth, the meifenger will be
received ; and, if at the fame time the lord of the fifth or Mercury
tran1lates the virtue of the lord of the feventh to the lord of the afcen-
2 d~~
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
dant, the querent obtains whatfoever he hoped for by the mefiage; which
I have foond true in a variety of inftances.
JUDGMENTS proper to the SIXTH HOUSE.
The fixth houfe gives judgment on ficknefs, fervants, and fmall cattle,
&c. and the following qudHons are commonly attribated to it:
1. What Part ofthe Body is afflifledf
2. Is the Dfftaft in the Body or Mind, or both?
3· Shall the D!flemper !Je chronic or acute F
4· What is the Cauft ofthe D!flemper F'
5· Shall thejic-k Party recover, or die oft!Je Difeaft?
6. Of Servants, jha/1 they provejujl, or dijhonejl?
7· OfJma/1 Cattle, jha/1 the ~erent thrive by them or not F
In the former part of this work, I have ihewn what difeafes are attribu..
ted to each planet, houfe, and fign; which, in refolving the firft Qf the~
five queftions, thall be particularly noticed. ·
I
What Part ifthe Body is aff/ie/ed?
. Having ered:ed the.figure, obferve the afcendant, the fixth houfe, and
place of the Moon, f~r they are natu.ral fignificators of the difeafe; and
'then judge as follows: T~e horofcope affliCted by the prefence of an evil.
pl~net, or by the pofitio~ of the Dragon's Tai1, indicates that the diftem7
per lies chitfly in the head, and in that member or part of the bqdy re.,.
prefented by the fign afc~n.ding. If the Moon be afflicted by the infor-
.tunes, the fick party is indifpofed in that part of ~he body the afflicting
planet governs from his own houfe. If the afcendant be Scorpio, and
Mars and Venus be in the afcendant, or fixth houfe, the difeafe lies in the
head, bowels, and fecrets, becaufe Mars governs thofe members in eithe&:
place j ·which rule holds good with all the other figns and planets.
Is the Dfflaje in the Body or Mind, or in both?
The afcendant and the difpofitors of the Sun and th« Moon bear fignr-
fication of the mind, and the lord of the afcendant and the Moon of the
body. Now, if the afcenclant, its lord, the Sun, or the Moon, be af-
fiiCled, it ihews the diftemper hath feized the whole .body and mind alfo
of the fick party. · 1f the afcendant and the difpofitors of the Sun and
the Moon be afflicted, the difeafe impairs the mind; but, if the lord of
the afcendant and the Moon be afflicted, the difeafe affects only .the body,
and the mind is free. If Saturn afflict the afccndant, and the difpofitor
of
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATIO-N
()f the luminaries, and the Moon be at the fame time in quartile or oppo..
fition of him, or in quartile or oppofi tion of the lord of the afcendat:tt,
the fick party is aB!id:ed in mind, concerning the things of this world,
. and about lo1Tcs in his bufinefs or eftate. If Jupiter, by being lord of
evil houfes, ·affiid: the aforefaid ftgnificators, the querent is troubled in
tnind about ~ligious J~nets. If Venus, by difappointmenu io love; if
Mars, or. Mercury, by ~ too iotcnfc exercifc of tbc mind, by ftudy, or·
by application to {cience or philofophy.
Shall tht Dift":fo !Jt chrDnlc Dr acute I
To know this, confider the complexion of the perfon, his age, and the
time of the year ; for the knowledge of ~befe conduce much to the dif..
covery of the certainty of the matter propounded. Difeafes io autumn
and winter are ufually reputed chronical or long J but longer in winter
than in autumn. In fpring and fummer, acute or thort J but more acute
in fpring than in fummer. So infirmities afflicting young perfons, or
thofe in the firft half of their age, arc iliorter and lefs dangerous than
thqfc in elderly perfcm•, or thQfe tha~ are in the laft part of their age.
Likewife, melancholy and phlegmatic perfons are fubjeCt to chronical dif..
eafes ; but fanguioe and choleric perfons to acute. Saturnine difeafes,
which arc cold and dry, are ufually long and tedious; the Moon and
Venus are protratlers of the infirmity; Jupiter, Mars, the St.Jn, and
Mercury, fignify difea(es of no long continuance, but fuch aa may rc..
turn fpeedily; but, by being lords of evil places, or otherwife affiicted,
they may have 6gnification of chronic dife~fes. The figns poffdling the
afcendant, fixth houfe, or place of the Moon, being fixed, declare a
chronic difeafe J common figns lbew difeafes neither very long nor very
~ort 5 moveable figna denote the difeafc to terminate qui,kly, either
one way or the other. An infortune being lord of the fixth, and in the
fixtb, prefages a lafting ficknefs ; but, if a benefic be lord of the fixth,
· and in the fixth, the difeafe will admit of an immediate cure. The lord of
the afcendant, the Moon, or lord of the fixth, in conjuntHon, fextile, or
trine, of the lord of the tenth, denotes the difeafc to be of no long con-
tinuance; and if they be in conjuntlion, fextile, or trine, of the fortunes,
the fame. But if the faid ftgni6cators, or any of them, be in conjunc-
tion, quartile, or oppofition, of the infortunes, the difcafe will be ·bo~h
Joog and tedious J and, if this thall happen in fixed figns, it argues the
duratiop or continuance to be frill the longer.
What is the Caufl ifthe Diftemper 1
The cau(e of the diA:emper is known from the pofitiont of the fignifica.
tors of ficknefs, brforc defcribed, in either of the four trigona or triplici.
tin 1 for therein they ihew the humour that is predominant. If thcfe .
· ~gni6-tc~
Digitized oy Coogle
0 F A S T It 0' L. 0 G Y. 3t s
orthe mo~ of them aro poftted in fiery figns, they declare the diftemper to
have its origin from choler, whence fevers and all fuch-like difeafes pro-
ceed. But, if the·fignific:~ton be in airy:figns. blood·is then predomi..
nant in the body, and the difcafc ia thence caufcd J as gouts, leprofics.
&c. When the figoificators of frcknels ate in cattby 6gns, they declare
the cau'= of the difcafc to have its origin from melancholy, and thofc
difeafes are ufually long and tedious, aa confumptions, agues, &e. And
the fignificators of difcafee in watery figns denote th~ infirmity to pro-
ceed from cold and moift caufcs, u phlegmJ and thefe difeates principally
·are coughs, ·phthyfie, and all difeafes of the ftoa~h. When the pofitioris
of the fignific•tora do not thoroughly point out the nature of the diftemo~
per, note tho fixed ftars in the tigun; and they will afiift in the difcoYery
of the caufe of the difcafe.
Shall thtjici PariJ rtcfi'IJer, Dr au vtht Injirmiiy qffliSing.
If the Moon defiux from the infortunes, and apply to the benevaJents
without fruftrationt prohibition~ or refranation, there is great hopes- the'
infirm party will recover; {o the fignificators of ficknefs1 no-way ai-
Jiiaed, but itfC from the ill beams of the malevolents. declare great
hopes of the recovery of·the ficlt. If they. arc in fextile or trine of the
luminaries, or in any friendly reception with them, or either of them,
the fame. The Moon, encreafing in light and motion, and being pofited
in good houfee of hcaYen, in fcxtile or trine of the lord of the afcendant1
denotes great hopes of life; if the lord of the afcendant be an infortune
in this judgment, it will no-way affed: the fick.party. When th~Moon
ntall either be found·in the afcendant, or in any of her-dignities, or 1hall
c:aft a fextile or trine thereunto; it is a great. argument the fick will not
die of the difeafe affticting. The lord of tbe: af~endant and the Moon
c:ombuft of the Sun denote death, unlefs there be fome reception between
the Sun and them J and, if they iliall be in conjunll:ion with the lord of
the eighth, except Jupiter or- Venus interpofe their friendly beams, it
1hews.the fame. The lord of the eighth in·an angle, and die Moon and
lord of the afccndant cadent, or afHi&d:of the infortunes, prefage mor-
tality; the application of the lord•_
of the afcendant or the Moon unto
the lord of the eighth by e"il afpcet, dlews the·fame J' and, if he be all
iofortunc, it puts the m~tter paft .all.doubr. The lord' o£1 the afcendant
in th'e eighth, or lord of the eighth in the afoendant; d'eclares the irre•
covery of the fick. . If the IQrd·of the eighth be in the tenth·, and the
lord of the afcendant in the fourth, fixth, or fevt!nth, houfes, any-way
~icted, it portends death to the.fick party. The lord of the afcendant
and Moon with violent fixed ftau, according to thoir latitude, gentralJy
denote d~ath unto the fick..
. No. 16. 4 F - Of-
Digitized by Coogle
..
AN ILLUSTRATION
OjServants, jha/1 thty prfJVe jujl, Dr Jfjhonejl 1
When this quefi:ion is put by the mafter, give the lord of the afcendant
and the afcendant itfelf to fignify the querent.; the fixth houfe and its
'Jord to fignify the fervant. And, if the lord of the fixth commit his
·difpofition by any friendly ray to the lord of the afcendant, the fervant
will prove juft and honeft. If the Moon .transfe.r the light of the lord of
the fixth to the lord of the afcendant, by a good afped:, it fpeaks the ho-
neily of the fervant. The lord of the fixth in the dignities of the for-
tunes in fextile or trine to the afcendant, pleads for the honefty of the
{ervant. If he be near fixed ftars of a benevolent nature, the fame. .But,
if the lord of the fixth lhall be in conjWlction of the infortunes, and in
·quartile or oppofition to the afcendant or lord thereof, the fervant will
not prove honeft. The Moon in the fixth, in quartile to the lord of the
fixth in the fecond, iliews the fervant .to be a pilferer, and fuch a one as
~ the queren• will never grow rich by. If the principal fignificators are
void of all reception, and there be neither good application or tranflation
of light to be found among them, the fervant is not to'be trolled. When
Mercury, the natural fignificator of fervants, iliall be in the djgnities of
Saturn or Mars, and in quartile or oppofition to the afcendant or fecond
-houfe, or either of their lords, it gives great caufe to fufpect the fervant•
.If the Dragon's Tail be in the fixth, or doth affiict the lord of the fixth,
it denotes the fame.
OfJma/1 Cattle, jha/1 the §<.yertnt thrt"ve by them or not?
By fmall cattle are meant hogs, £beep, and the Jike.-If the lord of
the fixth and the lord,of the fecond are in conjunaion, in a good houfe
of heaven, the querent may thrive by them; or, if they be in fextile or
trine, the fame. The lord of the fixth cafting a friendly afpett to the
Part of Fortune, or being in good configuration with the difpofitor there-
,of, denotes much good to the querent by dealing in fmall cattle. The
lord of the fi:xth in the fecond, in the dignities of Jupiter or Venus,
and Jupiter or Venus cafting a fcxtile or trine to the fecond, or to the fe-
cond in conjun8ion with him, argues great gain to the querent by deal-
ing in fmall cattle. But if, on the contrary, the lord of the fixth be un•
fortunate, and in evil afpect with the lord of the afcendant or fecond, or
caft maligna~t rays to either of their cufps, ·the querent will lofe by deal-
ing in fmall cattle, If the lord ·of the fixth be in quartile or oppofi-
tion to the difpofitor of the Part of Fortune, or the Moon, the querent
cannot thrive by dealing in fmall cattle. The fame if the lord of the fixth
be affiitted either by Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail; or be found either
retrograde, combuft, cadent, or peregrine. The Dragon's,Tail and Mars
· ~ew
Digitized by Coogle
•
0 F A s T R 0 L 0 G Y
..
·Qlew much Jofs·therein by knaves and thieves, and ill bargains, &c. and
Saturn denotes much damage by the rot or murrain. ·
INTERROGATORIES proper to the SEVENTH HOUSE.
.
This houfc refolves queftions concerning marriage, partnerlhip,' law-
fuits, public enemic;s, war, &c. thefts, fugitives, and ftrays J which, be-
. . caufe they are of feveral diftinCl natures, are treated of under three diffe-
rent heads; and fidl, of'marriage.
I. Shall the ~uerent marry?
2. At what CJ'ime foal/ the ~erent marry?
3• Shall the ~erent marry more than once 1 .
+ What Manner ofPerfon foal/ the ff<gerent marry? ·
5. Shall they accord after Marriage?
6. Shall the Marriage !Je con.fommated or broken off?
Shall the ~trent marry?
J ~d
To know this, ~onfider the pofition of the lord of the afcen~ant~ the
Moon, and Venus,;i\AQ the pert ef maniage,..aAd theiF peati9A&-f for they
all have 6gnification of the party enquiring in this cafe. If all or the
greater part of them be in prolific or fruitful figns, it is a .great argument
that the party enquiring will marry. lf the Moon or lord of the afcen-
aant be in good afpea: with the Sun, or either of the fortunes, or ncar
fixed ftars of their natures, the party enquiring may marry. When the
Jord of the afcendaQt, the Moon, or Venus, are in the feventh houfe, 9r
in the dignities of the lord of ·the fevcnth, and the lord of the feventh
either in the afcendant, or in fextile or trine to the faid fignificators, the
querent will certainly marry. If none of thefe arguments appear, but
on the contrary all the fignificators of marriage are in fi:erile- figns, and _fi..vr..v,.... -
in quartile or oppofition to the lord of the feventh, or feven* houfe, the
party enquiring is averfe to marriage.
At what CJ'i'me foal/ the ~uerenl marry?
The fignificators of marriage applying to each other bya friendly afpeCl:~
or by conjunC\ion in the oriental or meridional parts of heaven, denote
the querent will be married fuddenJy; but, if in the occidental part pf
heaven, or feptentrional, it will be much prolonged, and a great while
before accomplilhed. All the fignificators above the earth, and fwift in
motion, accelerate or haften the matter, particularly if in moveahle figns;.
but, if they are under the earth, and flow in motion, the marriage wilt
be retarded. The degrees of diftance, either in body or afpeCt, between the '
3 ~~
Digitized by Coogle
AN . I·L·L US T R·A T I O'N
lord ot tbe·a{ceaclent and the-lord of the Gwent&. the Sun, or Veaus.,
·atew the time of marciag~ if there- happen a good tranfit to br.iag oo
the bufinef&. In this judgment. moveable figns give weeks or days; bi-
, corpocal gjve ·a.enths.or week&1- and fixed figns l~r& or IIIODUt8 : and,
if the fignificators are 1Iow in motion, and in fix'EO figns, the degrees of
a.t!bln~o wiilllte·fo maoy yeat"S'; if fat in motion. then fo many months;
fo: de caJtuis.
Shall the ~ermt lfiiJ1"f'! lllfJN tiNm ,OIIct 1
The fignificators of marriage in bi-corporat or double-bodied figns de-
clare the quercnt, be it.either man or woman, to marry more than once.
The fignificators of marriage in conjun8ion, fextile, or trine, with many
planets, portend ~arriage to the querent mor.e than once ; particularly
from the fifth, fovcnth, or eleventh, houfes. Many plane~ in the fcvcnth
Jioufe, in fextile or trine to the luminaries or lord ofthe afcendant, denote
the querent will be married more than once. But, 'if the fignificators of
marriage arc in fixed fig,ns, and in afped: with not above one planet, it
prefages that the querent will marry only once.
IY!Jat KindyPtt:fonfha/1 the Jtuermt marry, anti lmw ,_Ji.fodl
\ Obferve what planet the Jord of the afcendant, or Moon, is near-eft ia
a(pea with, and the fign he is in, and defcribe the perfon, either man
or woman, accordingly; for fuch a one the qucrent will marry. If the
lord of the afCCDda.ot or Moon be in conjunClion or. afpett with Venus,
the perfon is plcafant and afFable; if with the. Sun, he i! noble., of a
great fpirit, and imperious; if with Mars, the perfon is many times rath
and furious, and (ubjed to. choler and paffion ; ifwith Saturn, he is in-
diaable to melaocW,y, but prudent and gra.ve; if with Jupiter, the
ptrfon is Juft, honctl, and religious; if with Venus, {ubtil, cunning,
&c. Note the fixed ftan that are near the 1ignificators, for they often
alter the quality of the planets. By thus confidering the dignities and
debilities of the planet or planets aforcfaid, ..the lhape, qualification, and
temperature, of the perfon whom the qucre.nt-1hall.marry, may be known
-and difcovered.
Shall thty accord and ot happy ":{ttr Marriage I'
. .
The lord of the afcendant, or Moon, in conjund:ion, fextile, .or trine_
of the lord of the feventh or Venus, argues much pleafure. and delight
after marriage, and atews the parties (ball agree.well, and not quarrel;
but, if they are in quartile or oppofition unto each other, it 1hews much
quarrcllina
oigiti.zed by Coogle
.· 0 F A S T R. 0 L 0 0 Y.
quarrelling and contention after marriage; and, if they be in quartile,
conjunclion, or oppofition, of the infortunes, in,any pla~es of the figure,
.it4hcws the lame. Satum, Mus, or the Dragons Ta1I, m the afcendant,
Slews the que11e0t to be imperiout after marriage, and by his or her
obftinacy wiU occalion much difcontent and trouble. But, if they arc
pofitcd in the !t:.renth boufc, the pcrfon whom the querent marries will
be the.occafion of !the trouble and difcontent. Benevolent planets .potfefi"..
ift.g ·the fctcDth btnsk, and a friendly reception bet~een the lord of the
fiwentb and lord of tbe afceodant, denote good agreement after marriage.
If there happeu :to be a reception, tbrougll they are in quartile, it im..
plies the fame.
8haUtht Marrilzgt !Jt tffeStd, or !Jrokm D.ff.1
The perfo~~t who enquires concerQing the concludiog or breaking otf
an intended marriage, muft have the lord of the afcendant and moon for
fi&nificators; and the perfon quefited muft have the lord of the feveoth
and the planet from ~h!ch the Moon is feparated. If the l~rd of the af.. ' /
cendant or Moon be JOined to the lord of the feventh, 01' m fextile or
trine eo .him, in any of his efi"ential dignities, the ·marriage intended will
be brought to perfecHon, particularly if it be from good houfes of the
figure. If a quartile or oppofition happens between the fignificators,
and no reception, the intended marriage will be broken off, and come to
nothing. When there is no afpect between the fignificators, yet, if there
be any good trantlation of light between them, and this by a benevolent
planet, the marriage may be e1fcd:ed by a perfon reprefented by the houfC'
that planet is lord or governor of. So alfo, if the fignificator of both
parties apply to a friendly afped, and, before· the afpecl; be made, an in-
fortune interpofes his malicious rays, the marriage will be obftrud:ed by
a perfon fignified by the houfe the interpofing planet is lord of. If the
interpofing planet be lord of the third, a kinfman of the querent's, or a
neighbour or brother, thall break off the bufinefs J if he be lord of the
tenth or fo'urtb houfes, the father or mother of the querent ~ill obftrua
the marriage intended ; and to of the other houfes.
Of PARTNEJUHIP, LAw-SuiTS, WAR, &c.
The extent of this part will be better underftood by being digcfted
into the fgllowing particulars:
1. S'MIItwfJ Partners agree and !Jefoccefsful in their Partnerjhip 1.
2 . Shall the 5tuer~nt,' or his Advetjary, overcome in a Law-Suit P
· 3•·'Sbli/J a Peifon -returnfaftfrom War?
4• Shd/1 tbe City, Cajlle, w ]Jrong Hold, 6¢eged, !Je taken?
No. 16. 4 G ShaN
Digitized by Coogle
,
AN ILLUSTRATION
ShaD two Partners agru and 6efoccififu/ in their Partnerfoip 1
The lord of the afcendant and feventh, being friends according to na-
ture, and in reception or good: afpect with each other, declare the part-
ners fuall agree in their partnerlhip, and gain confiderably by their un-
dertaking. If they are enemies by nature, and void of good ray$ toward
one another, and in no reception, it is an argument that they will never
ag.ree, but will be perpetually jangling, and injuring each other. If the
lord of the afcendant. be a mor.e weighty planet than the lord of the
fcventh, and better dignified, it iliews the querent will thri~e heft in the
partneriliip; but, if the lord of the feventh be moft ponderous, the
quefited gains moft. Mars or Mercury lord of the fecond, afHiRing the
lord of the eighth, thews the querent will cheat his partner; but, if
either of them be lord of the eighth, and afHiR the lord of the fecond,
..the partner will cheat the querent. He, whofe fignificators are ftrongeft
and in good places of the heavens, will thrive heft in the partnerlhip; but
he, whofe figni.ficators are weak and in evil places of the figure,. will be
injured by the partnerlhip.
Shall ~he ~erent, or his .Advetfo'J:....~/.~~C.~"!.e;.~"~·J:Zw-Suit 1
If tpe lord .of the afcendant be more~ than the lord of. the fe..
venth~ -or the afcendant better fortified ilian the feventh houfe, either by
the gobd afpetts or the prefence of the fortunate planets, there is great
probability the querent will be fuccefsful in the fuit at law,. and overcome
his adverfary. But, if the lord of the feventh be more powerful in digni·
ties thah the lord .of the afcendant, and the feventh houfe better goaFded
by the prefence or rays of the fortunate ftars than the afcendant,. the ad-
verfary will overcome. If. the lords of the afcendant and feventh be af-
flicted by the infortunes, neither party will fucceed,. but both will be
injured,. if they go on with the fuit. If·they 1hould both be affifted by.
the fortunate. planets, poffibly fome friend will make up the breach be-
tween them.· Both fignificators in their dfcntial dignities, and in.angle&,;
1hew both perfons to be too high to hearken to a reconciliation. If the1
apply friendly to each other, the matter will be taken up among them·
{elves; and he,. whofe figni.ficator doth apply, will be the. firft to make
overtures of friendiliip and peace.
Shall a PerJon returnjaftjrom a Cruize or Campaign 1
The lo11,d of the afcendant ilrong and potent,. free from the evil beams
of the infortunes,. is an argumen~ of great fe~urity to the qper~pt, and
that he lhall return fafe from a cru1ze or campa1gn. If he be pofited w.ith
a good planet, in a.propitious houfe,. it thews chc fame. If the lord..of
thcr
Digitized by Coogle
OF AS'rROLOGY.
the a:{cendant be combuft or cadent, or in his peregrination, or. if ·Mars
be weak in the figure of the queftion, the querent will gain no honour
. or reputation in the war. If the.lord of the afcendant be ia afpea with
a good planet, and at the fame time the lord of the feventb be with,an
eYiJ one, he may return home again ; but he will fuffer great preJudi~
before his return. Saturn being in the firft, or with 1heJord of the litff~
prefages much lofs and damage to the querent by war. If Mars !hall be
with the.lord of the firft, either by conjunction, quartile, or oppofition,
and weak, and Saturn locally in the afcendant, the querent will be wound-
ed. But, if Mars or the Dragon's Tail lhould ill·dignify the afcendant,
the querent will be mortally wounded; and, if the lord of the afcendant
and the Moon futfer afllidion at the fame time, he will be killed Oll
the fpot. · ·
Shall the City,· 'l'o'IV11, Cajile, orjJrong Hold, ~rfieged, bt taken?
The afcendant and lord thereof reprefent the befiegers, and the fourth
lloufe the befieged; .the lord of the fourth, the governor ; the fifth and
its lord, the ammunition,. foldiery, and the affiftance they either ~ave
or may expect. If the lord of the afcendant be ll:rong and fortunate,
and joined to the lord of the fourth in the afcendant, or with the Moorr
or lord of the tenth houfe, in reception; it is an argument that the
befiegers !hall prove victorious. Or, if the lord of the fourth be in
houfes not beholding the fourth, or impeded of the infortunes, .it is
an argument that the garrifori will be taken, and the governor thereof
fubject to danger. If the unfortunate planets, or the Dragon'!t Tail,.
happen to be in the fourth houfe, and the fortunate planets interpofcs
not their benevolent rays, it will be taken by treache.ry and bafenefs in·a
fuort time. If the lord of the [ourth commit his difpofition and vir,tue
to the lord of the afcendant, 1t 1hews the gevernor has been tampered
withp and for a eonfideration will furrender. the garrifen. But if none
ef thefe afpects happen, and on the contrary the fourth houfe and its lord
fuall be fortunate, and free from all impediments, and the lord of the
fourth be in no reception with the lord of the firft, the garrifon, &c..
.then befieged, lhall be taken by the army that inveft& it. ·
, 0£ THEFTs, FuGITIVES, STlt.AYs, &c•.
1. Of Fugitives or Strays, foal/ they befound or not?·
.2.. Which Way are they g{)ne, and to what Diflance?
3• 'I'hings lqfl, ifrecoverable or not?
4• Who is the 'I'hief? '!'he Age and sex ift/;e ']'hiefl
5· Are there more than one concerned F
6. Be they Strangers or Familiars1
7. In 'UJhat 'l'i'mejhaU the 'Ihing jlokn 6e recovered1
We
Digitized by Googl~
AN - l L L .U 8 !" Jt·A·T t 0 N
. .
. w~ 4ha11 n~w .coaUder thefe in theN- order, and fo conclude ·_~he judg·
ments belongmg to the feventh houk. -
OfFugitives or Strays, foal/ they hefound or,11ot 1
· The Moon and Mercury are -:taturally fignificatora of fugitives and
ftrays -: but the fe~ent.h aDd its lord arc particularJy fignificators thereof,
ualcfs the tbio1 ftray.ed be a Juvfe, 6:c. If the lord of the feventh be
retr-ogrAde, the ·,perJon abfconded fitall ret-urn again of his own acco-rd,
before he goea far fr..om the querent's heefe. The lonl-of the a:fceodaat
or Moon in ~ood .ar,ea w-ith the_ lord of the feventh, and the lord of the ·
feventb in application, 'Cile.clares him to he «turning .home again. If the
fevendt.8o not apply, the ~uerent may fine -
him by enqui~y. But if the
fignificators behold eacb other by quartile or oppofition, or from no a{•
.pelt at all, it denotes the perfon will not return again. If the lord of the
·· feven'th be in the -Gird or ninth, -it-denotes the fame. If an horfe, ox, or
c:ow, be B.ra~, ob!erwe·thc lord of the twelfth, an~ if he be found re-
(r-OJrade, the ihay will -
return of his own accord; and obfervc the fame
rl
... rules u .above, only ~banging the lord of the houfe. If.the Moon tranf..
-dt. ~ fc:rs the llght of thc4eftt.-Q{ the fugitive or ftray to the lord of the afcen-
• ! daot, it argues hopes of recovering them again. If ·file transfers Mer-
cury'.slj_ght .or .vir.tue, it fignifiCI the fame. The Moon in good con-
figuc.ati.on with Jupi&er or Venus, or either of them .cafting a good afpetl
to the a.fceodant, or ita JOI"d, from good Jwufet-of the figure, thew hopes
of.r.ccovc:ry. The lord of the feyenth, either in the twelfth houfe of the
fwure, or .combuft, denotes the perion tD :be under bonds of reftraint,
perhaps in .prifon ; Mercury fo pofited argues the fame. When the pla- ·
net feparates from the houfe of the Moon, it lhews the ftray is taken in-
&.o caftody# and -driven away and .{old ; -and. if any planet be found to
-~ from the lord of the fecdnd, it .lh~ws the fame. If the Moon,
·or flJnificator of the :ftray, ;&c• .apply to the lord of the eighth from.his
af.ceridsnt, or be pefi.ted in the eighth, it ie dead. If the difpofitor of
tlae Moon, ·or fignificator oft~ ·beaft:, be pouted in the eighth houfe, ap- · .'
pi)ling to the quartile or oppofirion Df an .infortune in the fourtb, the
fame. The Jord of the iixth ;or twaelftb, pofitcd in tbe fixth or twelfth,
or in the ninth or tenth, argues the beaft ftrayed to be either in the pound
or in the cutl:ody -of fome per"n. The lord of the feventh, or fixth,
'fortunated by the g.ood beams of Jupiter or VeAus, in the fecond, fifth
or e!eventh, bou~. or die Sun caftiog 11 trine ·unto them, de~otes _they
are hkely to be found again.
Which IY_ay are tlley,gotu F a!Jil tp what DfJJ~e 1
The Moon, or flgnificator ofltbe f.~ive :« ftay, in the tcotb houfe,
, 4lcws they arc pe.-..:; in the ~h, welt.; m-
the -ieu~b~ north,;
2 in
Digitized by Coogle
0 P A S .T R 0 'L 0 G Y. ·
in the a{cendant, eaft. If' the Ggnificator of the ftray be in· watery fi~a,
they are northward, and in Come moift moori£h place. If in airy figns,
they are weftward, and in mountainous and high places. If in· earthy
tigns, they are fouthward, and i-n cop{es ·or woods. If in fiery figns, they
. are eaftward, and in the open fields. The Moon in the fame quarter with
the lord of the af~endant~ and not more than one fign diftance betweea
them, fhews they are near the place from whence they went;' but, if they
are diftant above niaety degrees, then they are gone far fr~m the qucrent'.
If the Moon. be d.iftant from the fignHicator of the fugitive or ftray, either
by body or afpeCl:, .only one degree in a moveable fign, they are diftant
ab.ove feventeen furlongs from the owner; if in common or fixed figns-,.
:flilllefs.; fo that the dillance is to be apportioned according to.the num-·
ber of degrees the Moon and fignificator ar~ from each other..
Of'l!hings lo/J, ifrecO'Uera!Jit or no~?'
. Fortunate planets in fextile or _trine to the lords of the afcendant or·
{ec:ond houfe, and the difpofitor of the part of fortune pofited in the afcen--
d'ant or fecond houfe, declare a recovery of the goods loft. Either of the
fortunes in the afcendant, having dignities in the fecond houfe, or the·
Moon in the.feventh, in fexti.le or trine to the lord of the afcendant, are:
very certain arguments of recovering the thfng or things loft. The Moon·
in the tenth·, in .trine to a planet in the fccond; or in the fecond,. in trine·
to the lord of the fecond; the difpofitor of the Part of Fortune or. the lord
Qf the afcendant, in the fecond; the luminaries- in trine to each other, or
in trine to the cufp of the fecond houfe;. or the lord of the fecond· in the·
eleventh·or fourth houfes.; are all arguments of recovery.. The lord of
.the eighth in the afcendant, or with the lord of the afcenclant, denotes-a.
.recovery o£ the goods loft;. arid Jupite&:; Venus-, or the Dragon's Head,.
in the eleventh houfe, gi.ve great hopes of the fame. The Moon, .the:
Part of Fortune, or its difpofitor, or the lord of the fecond, in the eighth•
houfe, are great arguments that tlie goods loft cannot be recovered•.
When both· luminaries are under the earth, the thing· 1oft~ is hard to be:
recovered; and, if the fecond houfC? or ~ts lord b.e any way afHiEted.. itr
·d·enotes the·fame. But the greateft argument'S of irrecovery are the pofi-·
-tions of Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, out of their effential digni•·
ties, in the fecond houfe; or the lord of tbe fecond in combuftion, or.·
in the eighth houfe; or the lord of the fecond in quartile or oppo~tion·
·with the lord of the eighth. If the lord of the feventh be·in conjunttion·
with the lord of the eighth; or if the lord of the fecond behold not the·
·firft boufe, ·or lord thereof;· or the Sun and Moon not afpecting each
other, nor the Part of Fortune; or if they are both:under the earth;.there·
6:an be no reftitution of the goods loft. · ·
~ No. 16. · 4. H IF.hfJi
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
'IYhD is the ~-hiifl~the .Age and Se11: 9/the ~hiif1
A prregrine .planet in an angle is to be taken for the figni'ficator or the
thief J par!icularly if the pereg~ine planet hath digni~if.f: i~tn;"'~eventh
houfe, or ts lord thereof; or .atfild:s the houfe of fubftanceA or tts lord;
cr the Part of Fortune, or it~ But, if no planet malicioufly afpeCl:s
the aforcfaid fignificators, tllen admit the lord of the feventh to fignify
the thief, becaufe he hath natural fignification of thieves. Or, if
the planet affiid:ing the fubftance, or Part of Fortune, or their lords, be
~regrine, or dfentially dignified, he will lignify the thief.-If the planet
affiiaing the fubfi:aoce, &c. be nlafculine, and in a mafculine fign and
qua~er, it -~notes the thief to be~ man. If the pla~t be. f~inine,
and m femmtne parts of the figure, at denote& the thiCf 1S femuune, or a
woman. Saturn fignificator of the thief thews him to be old, except in
the beginning of figos.J the Sun, Mars, aod Jupiter, about thirty or Come-
what more; Venus and Mercury, youthful; the Moon, according to her
age ; in the firft quarter lbe fignifies young; in her fecond, between
twenty and thirty; in her third, between thirty and forty-five; in her
fourth, between forty-five and fixty.
Are there more concerned in the 'l'hift thai} Dnt 1
Many planets aftlicting the fignificators of fubftance, whether pere-
grine. or not, thew many thieves, or more thieves than one. If the
flgnificator of the thief be in ·fextile or trine with other planets, and in
' double-bodied figm, there are more thieves than one, although· but one
be found to affiid: the fignificators of fubftance. The angl~s of the figure
fixed, and the fignificator of the thief fixed, in no afpeCl: with any planet,
except the lord of the fubftance, or the difpofer of tho Part of Fortun~,
whom he aftlicb,- denote that oQiy one perfon is concerned in the theft
er·robbery.
· Is the 'Ihift CfJIIIfllitted !Jy Strangers or Familiar1 1
· The luminaries beholding the afcendant, or its lord, or the lord of the
.firft in the firft, in conjunCl:ion with the lord of the feventh., denote the
thief to be a familiar, or one well known to the lofer. When the 1pmi-
."nar~es are in their proper houfes, or in the houfesof the lord of the afcen-
.dant, or in the triplicity of the lord of the afcendant, thoy .denote the
thief .well known to the querent or lofer. The fignificator of the thief
~lrong in the afcendant, denotes a brothe.r or kinfman, partic::ularly if he
ch~nce· to be Jord of the third : if the lord of the fevcntb ~e in t~ fe.-
vcnth, he is one of the family. The lord of .the afcendant, in the thir6
or
, I
Digitized by Coogle
. .
~".Q:P A.S T ll 0 L P G Y.
cr fourth houfe, denotes the thief to be afervant in the family. The
fignificator of the thief. in the third or ninth from his own houfe, lhews
the ~hief to be a ihange~ ~ and if the )ord of the ~fcendant and the fe-
venth, or fignificator of the th!ef, be not of one ~riplicity, it ~enotes the
{am~. :Mars or. Mercury, fignJficator of the th1ef,- prefage h1m to be a
common pilferer, unlefs they govern a houfe Df relation; which if they
do, they then pojnt out who it is. If the thief be a domeftic, he is
known thus; The Sun figojfies a father or mafter; the Moon, a mother
or miftrefs; Venus, a wife o.r a woman; Saturn, a fervant or a ihanger
coming there by chance; Mars,. a fon, brother, or kinfman; Mercury,
a yO\lth, f'ltlliliar, pr friend.
In what 'I'imejha/1 the 'l'hingflo/en 6e reco'Utred ~
If t~imonies of recovery appear in the figure, the time may be known ·
thut: Obferve the application of the two planets- fignifying recovery, ·
and confider the degrees of diftance between their body and afpefr, and
turn the diftance into time. If they happen to be in moveable figns,
then allow as many weeks or days as there are degrees of diftance for the
{pace of time in which it may be recovered ; if in common ftgns, allow
months or weeks; if in fixed figns, years or months. When the Sun
and Moon together behold the afcendant, the thing loft will fpeedily be
recovered ; for they fuffer nothing to lie long hid or ob{cured: and, if at
the fame time the lord of the fecond be in the afcendant, it will be had ·
again very fpeedily. The fignificatots increafing in light and motion,
and pofited in fortunate places of the figure, prefage a fudden recovery
gf the goods loft or miffing.
JUDGMENTS proper to the EIGHTH HOUSE•
. This is called the Houfc of Death•. becaufe we enquire from it con-
~erning death! and ~f the manner of it. It has al!o lignification of.thF /fK
dowry of a w1fe, bcmg the fecond houfe fropt the~hltr: The queft1ons cJU<-f""
proper to it are thefe :
I. Oftht tJ'imt ofthe Death qfthe §l~rent 1
2. What Man11tr qfDeathjha/1 he Jle1
3· Sht~ll thf ~ertnt olltain the H'ift's PDrtion 1
4• Sh11/l the ~erent or hisiYifi dit.ftd/1
And e.ach of thefe fhall be treated of particularly in a {eparate and dif-
~na fe&ion. · . . . ·
s . Of
Digitized by Coogle
326 .A·N ILL·USTRATION
Ofthe 'I'ime iftht Dtat!J iftht lzytrtnt 1
To anfwer this queftion, Jet the lord of the afcendant, tbe a(cendant
itfelf, and the Moon, fignify the querent; the eighth houfe, lord there-
.of, and the part of death, together with the planet or planets in the
eighth, fignify the death of the querent. If the lord of the afcendant
and the Moon be free from the beams of the infortunes ; or if no infor-
tune, nor the Dragon's Tail, be pofited in the-afccndant; they argue n•
danger to the querent., but thew him to be of a long life. If the faid
flgnificators, or either of them, be in conjunftion or good afpea of the
fortunes, or the fortunes pofited in the afccndant, and the part of life
free; they prefage the querent, according to na~ure, may live to a con-
:fiderable age. Thus, finding all the fignificators free, the querent will
live as many years as there are degrees between the conjunftion, quartile,
or oppofition, of the lord of the eighth houfe and the lord of the afcen..
dant. Or if, before the lord of the afcendant receives this affiiaion from
the lord of the eighth, he happens to be 'combutl of the Sun in the
fourth, eighth, twelfth., or .fixth, houfes, the degre¢s of diftanE:e between
the Sun and the fignificator ·will lhew the years the querent may live,
before he 1hall conclude this life. But, if the fignificators be affiiB-cd,
.either by the infortunes, or by the lords of the fourth, fixth, eighth, or
.twelfth, houfes, the querent's life will be of RO very long continuance.
In the -:neafure of time, aUow for degrees of·dill.ance, &c. in moveable
tigns, weeks ; in common figns, months ;. and in .fixed figns. years;
which will !hew the length, according to natu.ral caufes,. of the querent's
life. When queftions of this nature are propounded,. draw the 6gut.c
into a fpeculum, and direct the fignificators as in a nativity; and when
the .afccndant or Hyleg lhall come to any malicious direaion, according.
to the folar meafure- of ·rime, adjudge the perfon enquiring may be cut:
off from the land of the living. But this i& only to be done when. the
nativity of a perfon i's not to be· had; for no abfolute confidence can be
placed in prediCtions that relate to death, but fuch as are grounded upqt
the gencthliacal figure of ·birth, for reafons that win beteafter be given.:
What Manner #''Death foal/ the ~trent Jie.1
Either the lord of the eighth or planets· pof:tted in~ the eighth thew the~
lind of death the querent !hall be fubjea to, reference being had to the
planets beholding him or·.them.. If the fignifi~ator be Jupiter or Venus~
in their .efi"ential dignities, they portend a gentle death to the querent,.
except VIolent fixed ~rS: be.near them.. If Saturn. be fignificator, he·de-
notes death by fome fevere ague, dropfy, or confumption; Mars, by fel
1crs ot wounds;. the Sun,. by pleurifies,, or by fomc obftruction of the·
'Ntala:··
p
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
vitals; Mercury, by the pbthyfic, frenzy, madnefs, lethargy, &c. and tho
Moon by drowning, or by difeafes proceeding from cold and moiA:ure.
Sh61J the ~ermt o!Jtain his Wife's Portion 1 ,.
Every querent is fignified by the afcendant, and the fecond houfe fig- '·l
ni6es his fubftance; the quefited is fig~ified by the feventh houfe, and
the eighth houfe hath fignification ofA~'t. fubftance in this queftion.-
The lord of the eighth in the eighth, no way impeded or affliCted by the
unfortunate planets, declares the querent will have a good eftate with
his wife, and take pofi'effion of it without trouble. Jupiter, or Venus,
or the Dragon•s Head, pofited in the eighth houfe, or on the cufp of the
eighth, in the terms of the fortunes, the lord of the eighth being no way
impeded, argues the querent fuall have his wife•s portion without any
manner of trouble. Tbe part of fortune in the eighth houfe, in the
dignities of Jupiter or Venus, and they cafting their fextile or trine af-
peCl:s thither, argues not only that the querent tlull have the dowry of
his wife, but alfo thews it to be confiderable. If there happens a friendly
afpeCl: between the lord of the fecond and eighth, with reception; or, if
the lord of the eighth be in the fecond, or the lord of the fecond in the
eighth; they denote the querent will obtain his wife's dowry without
difficulty. But, if there be a quartile or oppofition between the fignifi-
cators, and no reception or tranflation of light; or if the lord of the eighth
be combuft or retrograde; the querent will not obtain the portion of his
wife without great trouble and difficulty. If Saturn or Mars be in· the
eighth, and peregrine, very little of the wife's portion will be obtained;
and, if any, there will be great and violent contention about it. the Dra-
gon's Tail in the eighth portends the fame. If a woman enquires concern-
ing the eftate of a man fhe expeCl:s to marry, thefe rules will ferve fullici-
entlyi for the afccndant reprcfents the woman, if a woman enquiresi and
the fevcnth houfc muft then be for the man, and the eighth for his etlate•.
Shill/ the Man or his J?ift diejirjl F
In this quefiion particularly note the ~ord of the afcendant,. and the
lord of the feventh, and obferve which of them goes toconjuntlion, quar-
tile, or oppofition, of the lord of the eighth houfe, or to combuftion of
the Sun, or to afpefrs of the unfortunate planets, and thence judge. If
it be the lord of the afcendant that firft fuffers that aHliCtion, the man,
if a man be querent, fhall die firft; if the lord of the feventh goes firft
to thofe aftliaions,. the women will die firft. But it is always to be ob-
ferved,. that the fignificator which is ftrongeft and mofi: powerful in the
figure denotes the party reprefented by him fualllive the longefi:. This
queftion, however, fhould never be decided but by infpeCl:ion of the na-
tivity of each of the parties, properly rectified and duly confidered.
No. x6. 4 I jUDG·
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUS1'RATION
JUDGMENTS proper to the NINTH HOUSE.
We judge of voyages at fea, their profperity or infelicity, of fcienctt,
&c. and of perfons and things religious, by the ninth houfe: and thcfe
queftions are the moft common unto it:
I. Shall the Poyage be projj>er(Jus or not 1
2. Will it be long or jhort 1
3· May the ~uerent pro/it by the Science intended1
4· Shall a Clergyman obtain the Benefice he enquires after?
Thefe quefiions properly explained and refoJved will give fufficient
light to enable the reader to refolve any others, of the like nature and im-
port, proper to this houfe.
Shall the Voyage 6e pr'!JPerous or not 1
When the .ninth houfe or its lord ihatl be unfortunately afpeCl:ed, it
denotes many hazards and dangers to attend the voyage. If Saturn be
the affliCting planet, the perfon enquiring will be fubjeet to ficknefs
and lofs of goods; but, if Mars or the Dragon's Tail affiiCl: either the
ninth houfe or its lord, they declare danger by enemies or pirates. If
the ninth houfe or its lord be fortunate and £hong, much good and
great fuccefs are promifed to the querent in the voyage, and that he thall
make a happy and fafe return. The lord of the afcendant and lord of
the ninth in conjunCtion, fextile, or trine, with each other, particularly
if there be any reception between them, or pofition in each others
houfes, argues an admirable voyage, and a propitious and fafe return;
but, if they be in quartile or oppolition, void of all reception, or if
there happen no good tranflation between them, the querent will have
an unaufpicious voyage, and, before he returns home again will have
reafon to with he had let it alone. If the lord of the afcendant or the
Moon be in conjunction with a fortunate planet in the tenth houfe.
that being the fccond from the ninth, the querent £hall gain great fiore
of wealth by the voyage he undertakes, and enjoy remarkable health of
body. But if the lord of the afcendant or the Moon bt: in abject
places of the figure, or with the lords of abjec9: hou(es, or in quartile or
oppofition to them, either peregrine or combufi: of the Sun, the perfon
will fall tick in the journey, and the voyage will be unfortunate to him ;
and, if they be with violent fixed ftars of the firft magnitude, it will be
worfe. ·
Will
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
Will the Yoyage be long orjhort?
The fignificators of the perfon enquiring; and of the voyage, fwift in
motion, ori~.·ntal, and in moveable figns, denote the voyage to be lhort
and quick; but, if occidental, they lhcw fome obftructions. When
·the lord cf the afcendant applies to the lord of the ninth, or the lord of
the ninth to the lord of the afcendant; or if a fortunate planet transfers
the light of the one to that of the other; they are good arguments of a
fafe rtturn, and a iliort and fpeedy voyage. The lord of the ninth in a
fixed fi.gn, and the lord of the afcendant and Moon in fixed figns, denote
a very long voyage to the querent; if in common figns, the voyage will
be indifferently good; if in moveable figns, he returns fpeedily. If the
lord of the afcendant be retrograde, or if either he or the Moon apply to
a planet that is retrograde, it fignifies the pcrfon that goes the voyage
wilt return home in a lhort time, or perhaps before he goes to the place
intended.
May the ftuerent profit by the Science intended?
Give the afcendant, its lord, and the Moon, to fignify the querent;
the ninth houfe, the lord thereof, and the planet pofited therein, to fig..
nify the fcience enquired after; and, according to their pol1tions and
configurations, judge of the queftion. The lord of the afcendant and
lord of the ninth in conjunCtion, or in fextile or trine unto each other,
either in or from angles or fuccedent houfes, give great hopes to the
querent that he iliall gain or profit by the art or fcience he intends to
follow. If fortunate planets poffefs the afcendant or ninth houfe, and
thence iliall friendly behold either the cufps ofeach houfe or the lords of
them, it is an argument that the querent will profit by the art or fcience
intended. If the Moon be pofited in the ninth, in fextile to the lord
of the afcendant or ninth houfe in the eleventh, particularly if a recep.
tion happen, there is no doubt but the querent will gain by the {cience
intended, and prove a good artift therein; but, if none of thefe things
appear in the figure, but on the contrary there happens a quartile or oppo-
fition between the fignificators, the party enquiring will not profit by the
art or fcience intended. When the unfortunate planets or Dragon's Tail
are pofited in the afcendant or ninth houfe, or affiitl: their lords, or the
Moon; or if an unfortunate planet happens to be lord of the ninth, and
po.fited in an evil place of the figure; the perfon enquiring will not gain
much by the fcience.
ShaN
/
Digitized by·Google
330 AN ILLUSTRATION
Shall a Clergyman o!Jtainthe Benefice he en'luire1 4fterI
Give the afcendant and its lord, and the Moon, to fignify ·the clergy-
man ; and let the ninth houfe fignify the living, or other ecclefiaftical
preferment, fought after. The lord of the afcendant or Moon, joined to
the lord of the ninth by body or good afJleCl:, gives great hopes that the
minifier or querent may obtain the benefice defired. lf the Moon or
lord of 'the afcendant be in the ninth, or lord of the ninth in the afcen-
dant, or in reception with each other, they are very good arguments
that the querent or minifter dtall obtain the parfonage or church-prefer-
ment defired. When the lord of the afcendant, or Moon, are joined to
the Sun or Jupiter; or in fextile or trine of either of them, in the af-
cendant or ninth houfe; it denotes that the querent will obtain the be-
nefice enquired after. If the principal fignificators be in fextile or trine
with reception, the preferment or benefice comes with little trouble; if
they be in quartile, and at the fame time in reception, the benefice may
be obtained, but it will be with great trouble and delay. The bufinefs
may alfo be brought to pafs by tranfiation of light; for, if a planet {epa-
rates immediately from the good afpect of the lord of the ninth, and ap-
plies to the lord of the afcendant; or if he feparates from the lord of the
afcendant, and applies to the lord of the ninth ; the benefice or prefer-
ment will be obtained, and by the means of a perfon fignified by the
planet that thus transfers the light of the fignificators to each other.-
But, if none of tbefe teftimonies happen, it will be a very difficult mat-
ter to obtain the benefice defired. The lord of tne afcendant retrograde,
combuft, or cadent, and be or the Moon in quartile or oppofition of the
infortunes, or of the lord of the ninth houfe, without reception, declares
the deftruction of the matter enquired after, and fucws that it lhall come
to nothing. Infortunes in the ninth houfet or in the afcendant, or afflict-
ing the lord of the afcendant or ninth houfe, or the Moon, fuew much
trouble and vexation to the perfon enquiring after the benefice, and an im·
pofiibility of obtaining the bufinefs at taft. Obferve that planet which
cafis a quartile or oppofition either to the lord of the afcendant or Moon.
and take notice of the houfe he is lord of; for by that means may be dif-
covered what or who will be the occafion of preventing the bufinefs from
,aking place. The affiicting planett being lord of the third, denotes a
neighbour to be the impeditor of the thing; if of the eleventh, fome
pretended friend ; if of the tenth, the patron hath no good opinion of
him; if of the feventh or fifth, .he is confidered a contentious and im-
proper perfon. Fortunate planets in fortunate places of the figure, be-
friending the fignificators, give hopes of the bufinefs enquired after; but,.
if malefic planets, in unfortunate places of the figure, afflict the fignifi-
~ators of the bufinefs, it will never come to any thing.
2 JUDG~ ·
Digitized by Coogle
I '
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 331
JUDGMENTS proper to the TENTH HOUSE.
The honour, office, dignity, and profeffion, of euh querent, are known
from the tenth houfe; and thefe interrogations·are common to it.
I. Shall the f<..!Jerent o!Jtain the ojjice or dignity d~jired ?
2. Sholl he remain in the employment he paJ!dJes?
3· What proft.JJion will !Je be.flfor any one tofo//(J'W ?
Thefe quefiions properly anfwered will infiruct the ingenious reader
how to judge of any other of the like nature.
. shall the f<..!Jerent obtai'n toe Q!Jice or Dignity dijired f
Still remember to give the afcendant, its lord, and the Moon, .to lignify
the querent, let him be a perfon either.of high or low condition; and the
tenth houfe and the lord thereof, and the Sun, becaufe he is the natural
fignificator of honour ·and dignity, to ·reprefent the office, honour, or
dignity, enquired after. If the lord of the afcendant or Moon be joined
to the Sun, or to the lord of the tenth, or if they behold the tenth by a
fextile or trine, the querent 1hall obtain the dignity fou-
ght after, by his
indufiry, and by the means he intends to ufe. If the lord of the afcen-
dant or the Moon be in the tenth, or the lord of the tenth, or the Sun be
pofited in the afcendant, and neither of them impeded, the querent lhall
.
obtain the ho~our or office he feeks after. The fignificators in fcxtile
or trine to each other, or a fortunate planet tranflating the friendly beams
of one to the other, give affured hopes·of fu~cefs to the querent. For-
tunate planets in the tenth, or in conjunction, fextile, or trine, of the
lord of the tenth, having dignities in the afcendant, declare the querent ·
will obtain the office or dignity defired. IfSaturn or Mars be ftrong in
the afcendant, and joined to the lord of the tenth, either by body or good
afpeft, it prefages hopes of the preferment fought after, and that it
will be gained, although with much trouble. A fortunate planet tranf-
ferring the lig~t of the lord of the tenth to the lord of the ~fcendant,
denotes the querent will obtain the dignity or honour fought after, by
the means of the perfon reprefented by that planet who thus transfers the
light of the lord of the tenth. If the Sun's light be fo transferred, it
portends the fame. But, if none of the aforefaid configurations re-
ceptions, or tranflations, happen among the fignificators, the honour and
preferment. fought after by the querent will not be obtained; although
~e m~y have the greateft promifcs, and· moft probable hopes that can
poffibly be touceived. · . ·
No. 17. 4 K . Shall
Digitized by Coogle
332 AN ILLUSTRATION
Shalla Petfon remain in the Employmtnt !Je pf!/foffes t
When a perfon is' in an employment, truft, or office, ~nd is jealous of
being turned out of the fame, obfe-rve·whether the lord of the afcendant
or_ Moon, and the lord of the tentb, are going to ~onjunction, or to any
friendly afped, as a fextile or trine; or if there be any reception between
the two chief fignificators: for, if fo, the qucrent lhall hold and keep the
employment he fotre1fes. If rhe lord of the afcendant be in fe~;tile or
trine to either o the two fortunes in the tenth houfe, and no.affliction
happen from the infortunes, .the querent will long enjoy the place he
po1fe1fes. The lord of the afcendant in· the tenth, or lord of the tenth
in the afcendant, denotes the fame.· But,. if the lord of the af-c~ant at-
the Moon be in quartile or oppofition with any planets, and the fame
planets ·in conjunction, fextile, or trine, with the lord of the tenth, or the
Sun, the querent willlofe the employment he po~1fes; and fuch per-
fons as are fignified by the planets in (oaju·nttio», {extHe;. or triac,.with
the lord of the tenth, or the Sun, are endea.vourittg to prejudice bim icl
the bufinefs. The lord of the afcendant retrograde, and combd of the
Sun, iliews the qrierent to have incurred the difpleafure of thofe tba:t
have power over him, and that they will therefore take awa.y tbe o~
or employment he hold-s. lf rhc M.oon or lorci of the a(¢endant be ill
quartile or oppofition with the lord· of the tenth or the Suo without re..
ception, it porten~s the querent to be. ir.·clangor of lofing the cBke or
employment he holds or po1fdfes. The Jorcl. of the afcendaot or elao
Moon feparating from die lord of thct rem or the Suo, declares tho
querent in danger of klfmg the offi~ or employment he holds; particu-
·!arly if from their feparation they apply to the malicious afpech Gi tho
mfortunes.
Wh11t PrifdJiQn will be kjJfor the ~erent tofollo'UJ T
This quefiion is only fit to be propounded by mechanics, and not f>y
thofe who live and move in a higher fphere ; and, when a proper perfon
propounds the queftion, he may be anfwered according to the following
rules. Confider the lord of the afcendant, and the Moon, for the perfon,
enquiring; and the lord of the tenth houfe, and the planets Mars and
Venus, for the trade and profeflion of the querent, and obferve the afpetls--
between the fignificators according to the figns they are pofited in, and fo.
judge of the profeffion of the querent. If the fignificators, or the great•
er part of them, happen to be in fiery figns, the querent will do well i01
any ptofeffion that relates thereunto, according to his capacity of birth;.
as a phyfician, chemift, futgeon, goldfmith, filvcrfmith, jeweller, apo•
thecary; or, if of a meaner condition, he may make a good cutler, tinitb.
baker, slats-maker,. ot the like.. The fignificators in aereal figns, ac-
cording.
Digitized by Coogle
.· 0 .F A S T R 0 L O.G-Y; . 833'
cording to the birth of the querent~ dono~ her will make a Jl()Od law-
yer, arithmetician~ ac:comptanr, furveyor, fcrivener, clerk, aftronomer,
_
&c. otherwife a good haberda.iher, milliner, painter; draper:, or one
• that may de3l in retail commodities. Bu.t, if the figni6cator.s. be in.'
earthy figns, the querent may make a good farmer or hu.fbandman, gar-
dener, grafter, coach-maker, joiner, carpenter., &c. The 6gnificators-of
trade or profeilion, in watery figns, denote th-e querent to do well. in
brewing, malting, or in. felling wines and fpirituous liquors. When
the lord.·of the afcendant is in .fextile or trine to either of the fignificators
of trade, and they are pofited in angles or other good houfes of the figure:,.
the quercnt may do very well in the trade or profeffion. he fo11ows-. If
the Moon be in the ~ike good configuration with any of them, it portends
the fame. But, if the ugnificators of trade be.affiicted in cadent places of.
the figure, and the lord of the afcendant or the Moon in quartile or op--
pofition to them, the querent will not thrive by the trade or profefiioo.
he it about to follow.
JUDGMENTS proper to the ELEVENTH HOUSE.
This houfe gins judg~nt relative to the friends of each q·uerent,.
their bafenefs or fidelity, and of hit hopes~ &c. The queftions that ate:
moft common to it are thefe ~
1 .. sluJII the Friends of tbe ~erent pro'Uefaii'hfol to.ii1»l
2. Shall tbt ~erent obtain w.bat bt anxioflj/y Jejires i
All other things particularly re.lating to thi& h~u.fe are cornprehcnd~di
llnder tbefc two..
shall the Frimds iftlJe ~uermt provefaitlful'to him 1
The afcendant and its ]ord reprefent the querent,. and the elevent!il
llovfe and its lord the friends of the querent. Now if any benevolent
afped is found between the lords of the afcendant and the eleventh hoofer
or ariy friendly reception or tranfiation of light between them, the friend
of the querent is not to be fufpeeted, ·but he will prove·faithful. 1£'.
the Moon be in friendly afpeCl: to the lord of the eleventh,. or there
happens any good tranflation of light or reception between them,. in
good places of the figure, the friend proves juft and faithful. The dif-
pofitor of the part of friends, in conjunCtion, fextile, or trine, or in good·
reception with the lord of the afcendant in good houfes, and configurated
with ftars of a benevolent nature, argues the querent's friend to be juft:
and faithful to him. The lord of the afcendant or the Moon in the
eleventh houfe,. and the lord of the eleventh in.the afcendant, thews a:
r.eciprocal
Digitized by Coogle
,.
334 A-N.· I L .L .U STRATI O ·N
.
reciprocal affeCtion between the querent and hisfriends. If either of the
fortunes. caft their friendly beams to them both at the fame time, it ar-
gues the fame. On the contrary, if the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
be in quartile or oppofition of the infortunes in the eleventh, or of the lord
of the eleventh, the friends of the querent are not faithful to him. If
there be no reception between them, this judgment is the niore certain.
The Dragon:s tail afHiCl:ing the eleventh. houfe, or the lord thereof, fuews
the friends of the querent to be very deceitful, let them pretend ever fo
fair. The fame if the lord of the eleventh be near violent fixed ftars,
as Caput Algol, Oculus Taurus, Serp~ntarius, the Ch::ele, &c. If the
fignificators of the querent and his friends be in quartile or oppofition
from fixed figns, and in angles, it declares the friends, or at leaft fuch as
pretend to be fo, faithlefs ; and that perpetually. If the natural fignifi..
cators of friendlh.ip, which are Jupiter and Venus, be polite~ in the af-
cendant, or caft a friendly afped: thereto, or to the lord thereof, or the
Moon, the friends of the querent will prove faithful. But, if they caft a
quartile or oppofition to the Moon, or lord of the afcendant, or to the afcen-
dant itfelf, it admonithes the querent to beware of pretended friends.
Shall the ff<..uerent outain.what he h~pesfor or dfjires? ·
When a perfon hath hopes of a thing, an~ is unwilling to decJare what
it is, yet would with to be refolved what the effect may be, and accord-
ingly propounds ~he above queftion, the ~fcendant and its lord are to figni-
.fy him, and the eleventh houfe and its lord, with the fortunate planets
therein, are to lignify the matter or thing delired. If the fignificators ·
are in reception, or in good afpeet with each other, the bufinefs or matter
hoped for is poffible to be obtained; or, if there be any good tranfiation
of light or reception in houfes, it argues the fame thing. If the lord of
the afcendant and lord of the eleventh receive each other in .angles, or
1hall be received of the fortunate planets in angles or in fuccedent houfes,
the thing that the querent hopes for 1hal~ be accompliilied. Either the
.lord of the afcendant or the Moon received in fixed figns, fuews the que-
rent lhall obtain the bufinefs that be hopes for, and that completely; if
in moveable figns, he will obtain very little or nothing of what he hopes
for; and, if in bicorporal figns, he will have only a part of what he de-
fires to obtain. But if on the contrary the fignificators are in quartile
or oppofition, and void of aJl manner of reception, having no good
tranilation of light, or if they be combuft, cadent, peregrine, or retro-
grade, or with fixed ftars of an evil influenc~, the matter defired will not
be brought to perfeElion. But, if the querent in propounding the 'luef-
tion tc:lls the particular thing he hopes to attain, then the fignificators
thereof mull: be taken from their pr.oper place, and .the rules varied as
the fubjeCl may require. ·
2 JUDG-
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T· R 0 L 0 G Y. !35..
JUDGMENTS proper to the TWELFTH HOUSE.
By this houfe we judge of private enemies, captivity, and imprifon-
ment; and the quefiions belonging to it are,
' · .
1. Hath the ~erent private Enemies?
2. Who are they, or how -
may he know them?
3· Ofa Prifoner or Capti-ve, when may he befreed?
Thefe quefiions being refolved, wilt enable the reader to anfwer any
others of a fimilar lhape and tenden~y.
Hath the ~uerent private Enemies 1
If th.is queftion is indifferently propofed, obferve what afpe8: there
be between the lord of the afcendant and twelfth houfe, and froin what
houfe of heaven it happens; and fo judge of the querent's private enemies.
If the afpect be by quartile or oppofition, and out of malignant houfes of
the figure, the querent hath private enemies; and .if the lord of the twelfth
be a fuperior planet, as Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, and any way dignified,
the enemies are the more to .be feared; but, if they are inferiors, they are
not fo dangerous; the more powerful the fignificators of the enemies are,
the more injury will the querent fufiain by them; the lefs powerful, the
lefs evil and mifchief will they be able to do him. If the lord ofany other
houfe befides the twelfth be in quartile or oppofition to the lord of the
afcendant or the Moon, or to the afcendant itfelf, from obfcure places ~f
the figure, the querent hath private enemies. But if the afcendant, and
the lord thereof, and the Moon, be void of the evil afpects of any planet
or planets, and are befriended by the good rays of the fortunes, and the
lord of the afcendant and the Moon in fortunate places of the figure, they
denote the querent hath no private enemies.
Who are his private Enemies, and how may he know them?
To refolve this quefiion truly, obferve the pofitions of the lords of the
afcendant and twelfth houfe; for, if the lord of the twelfth afflict the
lord of the afccndant, or the afcendant from the third houfe, the lord of
the third affifiing·, the querent's greatefi private enemies are thofe that live
near him, or are nearly related to him; that is to fay; either a brother,
kinfman, or neighbour. The perfon is to be defcribed by the p)anet af-
flicting, and the fign in which he is pofited. If the lord of the twelfth
affiitt the afcendant or his lord from the fourth houfe, the father of the
querent is his enemy j if in the fifth, his children or fame occafional
No. 17. 4 L viiitor
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
vifitor will prove his private enemy. If in the fixth houfe, his fervants,
or an uncle. If in the feventh houfe, his wife or partner 1hall prove fe-
crctly mifchievous to him. The perfon or perfons. lignified by that houfe
where the Dragon's Tail is pofited will be malicious and prejudicial to
the querent; particularly if the lord thereof afHiH the lord of the afccn-
dant, the afcendant itfelf, or the Moon, at the fame time.
Ofa Prfloner or Captive, whenjha/1 he befit at Liberty?
The lord of the afcendant or Moon, fwift iri motion, denotes freedom
'from imprifonment in a fhort time; if either of them commit their vir-
tues or difpoutions to any planet or planets in the third or ninth houfe, or
to the lords of them, not being pofited in angles, it argues a releafe from
imprifonment in a 1hort time•. If the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
be more potent in the .figure than the lord of the twelfth, or be feparating
from the ill afpeCl:s of the lord of the twelfth, or the difpofitor of the part
of irnprifonment, particularly in moveable figns, and thence immediately
applying to the friendly beams of the fortunate planets Jupiter or Venus;
the prifoner or captive cannot remain long in .the prifon where he is, but
will be releafed. The lord of the afcendint or the Moon in the fourth,
fixth, eighth, or twelfth,· houfes, or under the fun-beams, or retro-
grade, or unhappily afflicted of Saturn or Mars, 1hews the perfon under
reftraint. wi11 not be releafed from confinement for a long time. And, if
the infortune happens to be lord of the eighth, he will die in prifon. If
the lord of the afcendant or the Moon feparate from the lord of the
fourth, and immediately apply to Jupiter or Venus; or if the lord of the
fourth feparate from the lord of the afcendant; they argue gooc! hopes
that the captive or prifoner !hall not continue long in prifon. A fixed
fign afcending at the: time of the queftion, and the lord thereof a ponder-
ous planet, and in an angle, portends a tedious time of imprifonment.
If common figns, the aflH.Cl:ion will not be fo long; if moveable, it
will be very fhort; if the lord of the afcendant be cadent from his houfe
or exaltation, and the Moon happen to be in Scorpio or Aquarie~, it pre-
fages long imprifonment. If the lore! of the hour in which che prifoner
was taken be an unfortunate planet, and unfortunately placed in the .
heavens, it declares a tedious imprifonment, and very long captivity;
but, if he be a fortune, the imprifonrilent cannot be long. The only
way to difcover the length of time in which a prifoner or captive £hall
be releafed, is, by obferving the degrees of diftance between the fignifi-
cators and the fortunate planets, or the Sun; and according to the figns
they 1hall be found in, whether fixed, common, or moveable, meafure
the days, weeks, months, or years, of the prifoner's captivity, as here-
tofore directed.
Having
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 837
Having thus given rules and directions how t? folve any kind of quef-
tion proper to each of the twelve houfes, I fhall next proceed to illuf-
trate the!e rules further, by giving examples of a variety of true and re-
cent quefiions which I have refolved for different perfons, moft of whom
are now living, and ready to confirm ~ny fact that may be difputed by
the incredulous· reader. I fhall begin with fuch as ~;roperly belong to
the firft houfe, and fo pafs on reglllarly to the others, and give an exam-
ple o'r two from each of them.
QYESTION I. On the LENGTH of LIFE.
A gentleman of eminence and fortune in his majefty's navy, having an
inclination to lay out a fum of money on life-annuities, applied to me
with a \'ery preffing felicitation to inform him whether his life would be
long or fhort, that he might thereby determine whether fuch a purchafe
would be to his advantage. Not being able to procure his nativity, I
took down the time of the day when the quefi:ion was propofed, and,
having reCtified it by a correCt regulator, I immediately projeCted the
following fcheme.
Q£ERENT's LIFE
BE
LONG OR SHORT?
Aprilx6, IIthh.A.M. I78J.
0 hor.
"0 ""o
'o
co
'\ .
~ '\.q
~ ~~.~· ""'
o'
~
5
~ ~....
I' ,.
...
My
.
AN ILLUSTRATION
My firfi bufinefs was to examine the figure, to find whether it were
radical, and fit to be adjudged, which I found to be the cafe, becaufe
the lord of the afcendant and the lord of the hour are of one nature and
triplicity; and the fignificator of the querent exactly defcribed his perfon.
which is of a middLe ftature, fanguine complexion, and of an acute un-
derftanding, denoted by Mercury's pofition in the fign Aries, the houfe
of Mars. The Moon being in oppofition to the fun, thews him to have
a mark or fear near the left eye; which was alfo true; and therefore, as
I found all circumfiances to concur in proving the queftion to be well
and ferioufly grounded, and free from all impofition, I gave him my
judgment upon the figure as follows.
The princely fign Leo, the querent's fignificator, occupies the afcen-
dant; and the Sun, the lord thereof, and giver of life, is pofited near
his meridian altitude in the medium cceti, and in the fign Aries, his
houfe of exaltation, firong, powerful, and in full dignity, free from the
evil rays of the lords of the fixth, eighth, fourth, or fecond, houfes,
which neither impeditc the Sun nor the afcendant with any evil afpect.
But the Moon, lady of the twelfth, is in oppofition to the Sun, makin1
at the fame time a quartile mundane afpeCl: with the afcendant, and a fex-
tile afpeCl: with Saturn in the zodiac; from which pofitions I inferred the
following particulars.
The afHitlion of the lord of the afcendant. by the oppofition of the
Moon in Libra, the houfe of Venus, and Venus difpofitor of the Moon
in her own houfe, and in the feminine fign Taurus, going to a femifex-
tile with the Sun, denotes that he will receive fame confiderable·injury
from a female conneRion, now exifiing under the fpecious pretence of
friendlhip and fond attachment; and this is declared by the ~oon being
lady of the twelfth, the houfe of privat~ enemies, which difpofes of the
part of fortune, and thereby indicates that he willlofe fome part of his
fortune by her means.
The Moon,s mundane quartile afpeCl: to the afcendant, in an airy fign,
declares that he will be attacked with·a fevere fit of the wind cholic.
or fame dangerous complaint in the bowels and reins; but it will not
prove fatal to him, becaufe the Sun, the lord of his afcendant, is more
ftrong.and powerful, and in greater dignities, than the affiicring planets;
and therefore, according to natural efficient caufes, they will prevail over
~11 fubordinate effects.
From
Digitized by G_
oogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
·From a confideration of thofe parts of the figure which relate to the
circumfiunces of his pall: life, I informed him he had improved his for-
tune, and been fuccefsful in fome important voyage, becaufe the Dra-
gon's Head is fituated in his ninth houfe; but that he had lately futfered
greatly by a violent hurricane, that threatened defi:ruction or ihipwreck;
which is denoted by the oppofition of Saturn to the Part of Fortune, and
the Moon having.lately feparated from an oppofition with Mercury, lord
of the third houfe, where the Dragon's Tail is pofited. This circum-
fiance I had the pleafure of hearing him acknowledge to be true; and
that the ftorm arofe only eight days before the ihip came into port.
He requefi:ed me to afcertain the time when the above illntfs would
happen. I accordingly took the number of degrees between the Sun and
Moon, by fubtraeting the lefs fum from the greater; and found the .
diftance to be eleven degrees fifty-nine minutes. I then fought the
Moon's latitude, and found it one degree thirty·three minutes fouth,
which, added to the above, make thirteen degrees thirty-two minutes;
and, as the fignificators are in moveable figns, I computed the time by
weeks and · days, and predicted this illnefs would befal him about the
.2oth of July following; and that, after he ihould be reftored to health
again, he would go on, without fuftaining any other ferious indifpofition,
until the fixty-ninth year of his age J about which time I conceive the
functions of life will be naturally extinguHhcd, by a ~;omplication of in·
firmides.
I have lately had the pleafure of converfing with the gentleman on the
fubjetl: of this queftion. He informed me, that towards the middle of
July, 1783, he was attacked with a kind of bilious complaint in his
fiomacb, which brought on violeAt fits of the cholic. That, towards
the latter end of the fame month, he found an obfi:rutlion in his bowels,
and his phyfician declared it next to a miracle that his life was faved.
He now appears to be in perfect health, and has funk i confiderable fum
of money in life annuities, which he declares was done in confequence of
the verity be found in thefe prediCtions. ·
QlJESTION II. On the FATE of a SHIP at SEA.
In the year 1781, a gentleman called upon me who had a confiderable
1hare in a privateer, which- had been completely fitted out and fent to
fea a long time before, and the proprietors could not obtain the leaft·
information of her. He therefore requefi:ed me, if in my power, to give
him fome probable account of what had befallen her. After convincing
myfelf the queftion was radical, and no trick or impofition intended,
No. 17. 4 M which
• Digitized by Coogle
~40
AN ILLUSTRATION
which is always nece1fary to be carefully enquired into ~y the rules at-
ready laid down for that purpofe, I proceeded to give my judgment on the
following figure,_ red:ified to the precife time the queftion was propound..
ed. ·
~ 8. 21R
~ 9 • 8
'Y' 0 u ·4-0
..ro
<0 c, • t>to
~·
tb'\
... .
' • ...>)
0
A '
SHIP at 8 E A,
H E R
SAFETY or DESTRUCT ION.
April 12., 6th h. A. M. 1781.
'U hor.
'U dia. Lat. 51°. 32'.
Here the af.cendant and the Moon are fignificators of the '1hip; and
Venus, becaufe the fign Taurus, the houfe of Venus, is on the afcendant,
is fignificatrix of the crew; and Mercury, with the Part of Fortune,
denote her ftores and all the other materials on-board her. The lhip it-
felf appears well found and fubftantial, but not a fwift failer, as is demo~­
fl:rated by an earthy fign poffeffing the cufp· of the afcendant, ·and the
fituation of the Dragon's Head in five degrees .of the fame figo. The
planet Mars is fignificator of the enemy. ·
Now the Moon, which reprefents the ihip., ·being fituated in the eighth
houfe,. the houfe of death and difappointment, and at the fame time be-
fieged by the two malefic planets Saturn and Mars, denotes her to be
overpowered by the enemy. Mars, lord of the feventh, the houfe of'
opca
. oigitizedbyGoogle
/
;
·'
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. S4t
open enemies, being pofited with all his digni.ties therein; and ill re..-
ception of Jupiter, lord of the enemy's houfe of fubftance; and being
alfo difpofitor of the Moon, Mercury, and Venus, which reprefent the
lhip and.crew, obvioufly declares them to be in the hands of the enemy.
The fignificators, being pofited in fiery figns, indicate an engagement to
have taken place; but the fupcrior firength of the malefic rays of the
infortunes declare it to have been of fl10rt duration, and of very unequal
force. The crew being reprefcnted by Venus, who is difpofcd of by
Mars in the twelfth houfe, the hcufe of imprifonment and affiiRion,
plainly thews them to be imprifoned in the enemy's country. And as
Mercury is retrograde, and fituated alfo in the twelfth houfe, with the
Moon's fortunate node, it is apparent that- the thip and flores will never
be n:fiorecl to the owners, but will be appropriated to the ufe of the cap-
tors, or difpofed of for their advantage. The Moon's pofition in the
eighth houfe declares the fhip to have been taken at a confiderable qif-
tance from home: and Sagittarius poifeffing the cufp of the eighth, which
is a fouth-wefi fign, and fituated in the fouth-weft part of the heavens,
denotes the capture to have been made in a fouth-weft part of the world.
The querent left me with ftrong hopes of finding this judgment erro-
neous ; and appeared fo extremely averfe to believe there could be any
truth in it, (becaufe perhaps it operated fo much againft his own intereft,)
that I would not fuffer him to ·leave the room until he had pro~ifed
upon his hor;tour to let me know the refult. Accordingly, in about fix
months afterwards, I re\:eived a lhort note from him, informing me that
the owners had received advice from the captain of the privateer, that he
had fallen in with a French frigate of twenty-fo~r guns, which being
vaftly fuperior to him, he waa obliged, after a Jbort·refifiance, to fl:rike
his colours, and was carried prifoner, with the refi of the crew~ into
France.
QYESTION III. Of an ABSENT SON, whether DEAD or ALIVE.:
A poor woman applied to me iri the greateft diftrefs of mind, on. ac-
eount of her fon, who had turned out wild, and went to fea without the
confent of his friends. He had been abfent a confiderable time, with-
<>Ut ever once fo far reflecting on the difconfolate 1ituation of his parent,
as to be induced to addrefs a line to her, to remove her anxiety, or to
ftate his own profpetl:s and purfuits. It was the woman's conftant practice
to make enquiry after him among the feafaring people,. till at length 1he
heard an imperfeCt fl:ory of fome engagement abroad, in which her fon:
was
Digitized by Coogle
342 AN ILLUSTRATION
was reported to be killed. Upon this unpleafant news, 1he requell:ed
me to inform her, by the rules of Aftrology, whether her fon was dead
or alive, or whether the account the had heard was true or falte. Her
uneafinefs of mind was too apparent 'for me to doubt her fincerity, or to
fuppofe the queftion not fit to be adjudged, and therefore I ereCted this
figure, and gave my opinion thereon as follows :
AN
ABsENT s 0 N,
WHETHEr.
DEAD or ALIVE.
july9, Sh. som. A.M. 17h•
)) ella.
Sub, lat. 50o so'
In this figure Virgo rifes upon the afcendant, and Mercury, lord
thereof, and fignificator of the querent, is pofited in the twelfth houfe,
the houfe of affiiction and forrow. The fifth houfe of the figure is here
confidered as her fon's firft or afcendant, and Saturn, lord thereof, is
his fignificator, and is pofited in the fourth angle, or imum CCE)i, which
reprefents the grave and termination of all things. Saturn is alfo in
conjD:nClion with the Part of Fortune in the fourth, both or which are
difpofed of by Jupiter, and Jupiter by Mars; which malefic planet
po1fe1fes the fon's firft houfe or afcendant in his exaltation, and in oppo-
fition to the Sun and Venus in the !eventb, which is the houfe of open
enemies and war.
2 From
Digitized by Coogle
·O F A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y.· 843
From there configurations I drew the inferences following: That Mer-
cury, the quere::nt's ligni6cator._ by_ being pofited in the twelfth houfe,
plainly lhewed her fears were too wen grounded. That Saturn, figni-
ficator of the qnefited, and the Pa_rt'of F'ortune, being both difp~fed of by
Jupiter, and this planet difpofed of by Mars, indicates all their benevo-
lent effeBs to be detlroycd by, the malignant influence of' this infortune.
Mars being in the fon's. afcendant", in his exallfltion, and in oppofition to
Sol, is a {hong argument of .a. violent death; the kind and manner of
which are thus dekribed._ Saturn. his tignificator,··is pofited in the fiery
fign Sagittarius; and Leo, which Qccnpies the cufp of his eighth, and
Aries the ~ufp of his fourth, are alto of the fiery triplicity; the Sun,
the giver of life, and light of time, is pofited in the watery fign Cancer,
difpofed of by the Moon in the watery fign Pifces, and the Moon by
Jupiter in the watery tig~ Scorpio; and the whole of their influenc; s are
transferred to the fiery p~net Mars, in his a.fcendant. From thefe cir-
cumfi:ances it becam~ obv.ious to me that" the 'youth was no longer in ex-
iftence; and that his death happened upon the water, by means of fome
fatal warlike inftrument, and. in fome defperate engageme!lt with an open
enemy.
The querent then a1ked ine if I could give her any fatisfaCl:ory account
how long ago this happened. I tookdown the degrees and minutes of
the two principal_ fign}~~ator~. viz. the Sun -cand-·M<~rs, and fubtraBed
the one from the other, which gave four degrees five minutes for the re-
mainder; and this being ~onverted into time by the rules before laid
down for moveable figns, in which the above fignificators were pofited, I
informed her the accident had befallen her fon fomewhat more than a
month before the heard the news of it. Some time .afterwards a ihip ar-
rived with an account of this engagement, which happened on the coaft
.of France, and confirmed the: whole of this judgm~nt.
Q._U E 5 T I 0 N IV. On the Profpee\: of R I C H E S.
A gentleman called upon me to enquire, whether any remarkable
change of circumfi:ances would ever happen to him ·in refpeel: of riches,
and the t.ime when. Conceivi~g his defire to arife from a ftrong imp~lfe
of the mmd, I took the exad: tame of the day, and erected the followmg
figure to refolve this queftion. .
No. 17. The
,
' Digitized by Coogle
,
~0
·~
Shall the
Q._U ERE NT.
BE
RICH; and WHENt
March 5, 1oh. 31.1m. A. M. 1781
'f1 hor.
~
~
. • 0
The lord· of the afcendant, and lord of the hour, being of one nature<
and triplicity, thews the figure to be radical. And, as Gemini occupies
the cufp of the afcendant, Mercury is its lord, and the querent's fignifi-
cator; and being pofited in the eleventh houfe, in a -watery fign, and in
trine to Jupiter, lord of the feventh, who is here pofited in the nxth, is
a ftrong argument of riches by means of fervants, or of perfons in a Cub-
ordinate capacity. Th~ Moon, who is lady of.the fecond, being in her
(Xahation:, in trine afpeet to the Sun, and applying to a trine with Jupi·
ter, and a dexter trine afpeet with Mercury, declares a gre~t and fudde&
flow of riches to the querent, ·and that unexpededly. . .
Being much preffed to fpeak to the particular point of time when thia
good fortune 1hould come up, I confidered what might be the g~ntle­
man's occupation; and obferving Mercury to be his flgnificator, and po-
bted in a watery fign, I told him that I judged he belonged to the fea,
and had fome employment on !hip-board,. in a capacity where writing or.
accounts were principally concerned. ·This he acknowledged, by faying
he was captain·~ fecretary. I then.obfervcd that hii princjpal fignifica-
2' . l()~
. .
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 34S
tors of wealth and riches were alfo p~fited in watery figns, as the Moon
in Cancer in the fecond houfe, and Jupiter in Scorpio in the fixth, and
the Sun and Mercury in Pifces in the eighth, all in trine afpeCl:s of ea~h
other, which plainly indicated thefe riches were to come by the fea; and
as they-were to b~ fudden, and as it were inftantaneous, I concluded ~hey
would arife by the capture of fome rich prize, in a fouth-eaft direction
from London, which is denoted by the Part of Fortune being in the twelfth
houfe, and Venus, its difpofitor, in Aquaries, a fouthern fign: in quar-
tile afpect to the Part of Fortune; and the Part of Fortune being oppofite
to Jupiter, lord of the_
.feventh, the houfe of public enemies, alfo de-
clares the querent's fortune iliould come that way; which is rendered ftill
more apparent, by the Part of Fortune being in fextile to-the Moon and
Mercury. When I had mentioned thefe particulars, he frankly told me
his thip was under failiug orders, and he expected to l;x; called on-board
every hour. ·
'
To afcertain the time when thefe riches lhou1d be acquired, I parti-
cularly noticed the application of the Moon to tht lord of the afcendant~
and found them nineteen degrees diilant from'* p•rtile trine afpect. But
the Moon, being fwift in motion, with three degrees north latitude, and
Mercury having no latitude, I deducted three degrees from the Moon's
place, which I fet down at twelve degre~s; clod then by fubtraeting
twelve degrees .from.twenty-eight degrees three minutes, which is M<:r·
cury's place-, there remains fixteen ·degrees three minutes ; which, as
the Moon is in a moveable fign, and Mercury in a common fign, is equal
to fixteen weeks, or thereabout ; and therefore I concluded this- good
fortune wou~d happ~n to him in nearly that diftance of time. And I have.
fince had th~ fatisfaaion of hearing, from the gentleman's own mouth,
that this prediction was literally verified by the capture of a rich prize:
within the time fpecified.
QPESTION V. ·On the Saccefs of a JOURNEY.
Being applied to by a tradefman, ·who was going a journey on fome
particular bufinefs, to inform him whether it would be profperous and
fuccefsful; I took the time of the day, and projected the following
fchemc to torrefpond with it.
Here
oigitizedbyGoogle ·
•
AN ILLUSTRATION·
Shall the
<l!!ercnt's Journey
BE
PROSPEROUS?
.Aprll16, 6 h. 30m. A. M. 1784.
~db. .
~ bor. Lat. sr0 3:1'
0
Here I find four degrees fourteen minutes of.Gemini upon the cu(p of
the horofcope, and confequently Mercury is the querent's fignificator,
which being pofited in the twelfth boufe, the houfe of anxiety and dif-
appointment, cpmbuft of the Sun, and difpofed of by Mars, the impli-
cator of private enemies, in the querent's houfe of fubftance; which po·
fitions plainly !hewed the objeCl of the journey to be concerning the ad-
jutl:ment of fome accounts, or other money matters. The Moon, lady of
the third, fignifies the journey; and the feventh houfe and its lord, i. e.
Jupiter, reprefents the place and perfon the querent is going to.
Now the Moon having lately feparated from a partile conjunction of
her fortunate node and Jupiter, and applying to a quartile of Mars, and
then. to a conjunClion of Venus, tend to prove that his journey lbould
' be fafe and unimpeded; but at the fame time denotes that the objeCt of it
1hould not be accomplilhed, which is further confirmed hy the pofition
of Mars in the fecond houfe. I informed him that he would moll: pro-
bably meet with unplea1ant treatment from fome lady, refpeCting money
concerns, and that they 1hould part in anger, which would terminate to
hi&
Digitized by Coogle
0 R .AS T R 0 L 0 0 Y. · 347
his prejlldice; and this.I ronc.-eived from the application of the Moon to
a quartile_a(peCl: wirh :-Mars, followed by a conjunCtion with Venus. It
further app~red to me that h~ joorney would be far f(om pkafant or
agreeable; but that on the cootrary he would me~t with gr~ar. vc:xatioo.
trouble, and difappointment. · 1-his is indicated by the lV1'-'on's un ior-
tunate node;_. or-Dragon's :rail, being pofitcd in. the fifth, or houie of
pleafure·and delight, 'at .rhe__fa_~e time_ that the querent's figniilcator oc-
cupies the hqufe of difaptrointment and troubJ_
e. Hence I pcrfuade::d
him to poftpone his journey to a future.day, becaufe, if he did go, I was
perfectly fatisfied he would Jofe more than he ' would. gain, excluJive of
being difappointed in t~e principal objeCt of it. He then left me, and
went home with an undetermined mind; but has fince told me that his
neceffity got the better _
of his reafon_, and therefore ]l.&--<Vent thejourney
contrary to my advice, ~and found the even,., wi~ll its contiqgencies,
exactly as I had prediCted .them..
Some months after, he_
came to me ·again, fa_xing he wilhed to take
another journey on the fame bufinefs.; but, as my former prediction had
{o exaHly cor.refponded with the event, he was now determined to act
implicitly by my advice, and therefore requefted me to erect a figure to
know whether there were better hopes.-'Of {uccefs in his,'prefent under-
taking tha_
n ·in the former. To-:.o~lige hi~_l d~ew out the figure to
the exact t1me 1l(propofing t~. que!hon, an._d,_· nndulg the benevolent af-
peas all in the querent'·s-favour; r told him he_ had .no tim~ to lofe; for
that, if he ha(lencd ~way, fuccefs: would crown his labours . .He went,
Jnet the p~rti·es at home, fettled his accounts, ·and returned with his
pockets full _
of money, and hi& heart full of content; and a few days af..
~erwards he·thanked rile for my Cervices.
QlJESTION VI.' ·oa. PATERNAL INHERITANCE•
. A young ' gendeman 'in the navy, who had been rather wild, and·was
in ·tonf~que~ce_ un~er the difpleafu~e _
of his pareqts, having been threat-
ened to be dtfinhented, came the mftant he received this unfavourable
news, and enquired of me .whether h,e lhould, or lhot,~ld not, t;njoy his
lather's eftate. ~o rc{olve·bis dot1bts, l projected the figure following.
I :__ ,·
.i
\ •'' . ,.,
.
' .
The
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
Shall the
Q_U ERE NT
Enjoy his.
FATHER's ESTATE?
oa. :ao, ah. 4om. P. M. q8o
~ dia.
The afcendant and its lord repr.efent the.qu~rent, and, as Aquariec·oc:.
aupies the cufp thereof, Satu.rn is his fignificator.. The father is reprc-
fented by the fourth houfe, and ¥ercury,. t~e Jord t~ereof,, is his tig-
nificator. The fecond houfc anq 1ts lord fign•fies the querent s fubftancc;
and the fifth hou(e and its lord the fubftance of his father. Here we
find Mer~ury in cpnjpnClion with Jupiter in the cig,hth houfe. which:
is the father's foutth, and implies a fubftantiat fortune, particularly as
the fun is pofited in the fame houfe, with mutual re.ception between
the two fignificators of fubftance; whereby it. is evident that the fon will
inherit the father's eftate and fortune.
The conjunction of Jupiter with Mercury" the father'a fignificator,
is.alfo a ftrong. argument of paternal regard on the 1ide of the' father;.
and therefore I informed him that there appeared to me no dCilubt but:
he would fucceed to the oftate of his anf:eftors,. provided he aded at all
confifient. with the duty and obedience of a fon,. and. would ufe proper~
endeavours to regain his father's good will an~ forgivenefs, and aim to.
ltc more prudent and careful in fpending hie income J. for the po1ition o£
· ~ J[~itczr
oi.gitizedby Coogle
349
Jupiter declares him to be regardlefs of money among his companions
and a~quaintance, and extravagantly generous and good-natured. The
eanjuntlion of Mars with Venus likewife .lhews his defire after women,
and denotes that 'they will be a continual fource of misfortune and ex-
pence to him, and will help off pretty fall: with his money; but the
pofition of the fortunate node of the Moon in his fecond houfe fuffici..
eatly indicates that he will have a ~ompetent provifion during life.
Q!!ESTION VII. On a CHANGE of SITUATION.
A perfon had fome time been fettled in bufinefs, without meeting with·
{o much encouragement as he e.xpe8ed; and, an opportunity otft:ring of
{ettling in the fame line of bufinefs in another place, he came and req.uefi-
ed my advice upon the matter, whetlfer it would be moll: to his advantage
to embrace the prefent offi r, or to continue in his former fituation.- T~
!atisfy him in this particular, I ereCted the following figure.
Will the
Q..UERENT
GAIN OR I. 0 sE
By a change of Situation?
May ~o, 1oh. '-Jffio A.M. 1748.
'l(. dia.
I '
'"-------------- ---------------------
, -.
c git ,.ea by Go
--~---------'
...
35° AN ILLUSTRATI.O N
,Leo, being up.on the cufp of the afcendant, gives the Sun for the que-
rent's fignificator; the fourth houfe and its lord rtprefent his pre{ent
fituation ; and the feventh houfe ~~nd its lord the ·pl... e to which he has
thoughts of removing. Now the Sun, the querent's Jignificat0r, being
on the point of leaving a fixed fign, and entering u;.K,n a common figr.,
clearly implies a flrong inclination in the querent to travel, or to remove
from ~ne place to anoth.er; or rather, that he had almofi: determined in
his own mind to .change his prcfent abode for the one -under contem-
.plation ~ and, on putting the quefiion to him, he frankly confeifed it.
. .
The feventh houfe having no benevolent ~fpett, and Saturn, its lord,
neing pofited in the fixth, indicates affliction and prejudice by open
enemies, if he removed to the place intended ; and that he would fu.ffer
great lofs and injury thereby, if-he remr,vcd. But finding Mars, lord
of the fourth, in ti-ine afpeCt to the fourth, which reprefcnts his pre-
fent place of abode;· and Venus, lady of the tenth, the houfe of trade
and profeffion, ftrongly dignified therein, and applying to a fextile afpect
of Mars, denotes 3n encreafing and profperous trade to the quercnt,. pro-
Yided he remained in his prefent fituation; which for thefe reafons I
greatly preifed him to do. He took my advice, and has lately thanked
me·for it, having already fqund an incr.cafe of bufinefs. I told him he
need not doubt of ftill greater fuccefs; fo·r when the etfc:cts of the fex ti)e
afped: of Venus and Mars ihaH begin to operate, which will be about
the end of 08ober, as is demonftrated by the degrees between thefe
two fignifi.cators, at which time they will alfo be in a mutual reception,
his encreafe of trade will become more vifible; particularly as Venus,
the principal fignificatrix of bufi nefs, will then have feparated from a
-conjunction with Mercury, and will apply to a conjunction of the Sun,
the lord of the afcendant, and the figmhcator of the querent.
~EST!ON YIII. On CHILD-BEARING.
··A lady.having been fome time married, without having any reafon to
fuppofe herf~lf pregnant, and being very defirous of children, ·came to
enquire whether lhe lhould ev~r breed. Having eyery reafon to believe
the q ueftion firn;ere. and radical, I took down the preCife time of the day,
and ereCted this fig'urc to correfpQnd wita it.
No
Digitized by Coogle
·.· 0 F ·:ii·.S ,- R ~ L.!O ~q Yp ,., JS•
·.W: I • ,_
0
. . · .J
. .
Shall the
I If'
<;LU ~ :{{ E,NT-
l{ ,! Y E
cHI L.Il R.E N? I.
• L' ,,L 1
March l•'. roft:·P.'"M. 1j s3:'
J . • '
· ]) dia. ' t. -
I I.
,, >
+ .: ,.1
o ·
. ,o ,_
.A., . ..b .It
.. + 'q, ' • ~~ .• .
• ...., . .. ,o J"
~ ;.p ,.·~a..:~ ·.
~, l'f'o,v .
q,.
N~ pc>fi.t~on of the planets, _perh~_ps, could.~e ·m~~ fay_our~~1~, to tbc
~efires of the querent, than thofe m the above.fph~mc•.· .A~ ~abra d(es
ppon th~ afce~dant, Venus. is lady thereof, a~~.Jft_gnj~~a.tri~·!'.f the q~e­
nnt; and, bemg pofited m. the fifth houfe; 10 her ex.alt~tlon, having
the fruitful fign Pifees upon the cufp thereof,. is one infalliabJe proof
that the querent will have children. The Moon, which is the a.'uthor of
all radical moifture, is feparating from the conjunctior:t of the Sun, the
~ut~~r of all vital fpi.rit, .and appJies .to a fextile a(P.~ of Jupiter, a be-
nevolent and proli~c pla~ef, and from thence ~or~s a _
conjunction with
Venus, th~ quere.nt s figmficator; and then apphes to her fortunate node.
From thefe confiderations I hefitated not a moment to inform the que-
rent tha~_.fue would be.the mother of a large and numerous o1Fspring.
This is declared by the pofition of Venus in the fifth houfe, which
gives three chiJdrcn; and, being .lady of the afcendant; in conjunction
with the Dragon's Head, or fortunate node of the Moon, gives three
more. The Moon, being likewife. in conjunction with th~m, adds three
more, and makes the number nine. And, as thefe configurations are
No. t8. 4- P · all
Digitized by Coogle
,.
all pofited in the double•bodied fruitful fign Pifcea, it doubles the num-
ber, and declares-there 1hall be eighteen children. This judgment is
ftrengthened by Jupiter,s fextile afped: with the above fignificators,
and thereby adds two more to the number ; which induced me to in-
form the lady that file would in all probability be the mother of twenty
~~~. . .
/ .
.
. .
This is an extraordinary imftftce of the R9fit.ion of the heavens to
give fruitfulnefs tmd fecundity, and, what I ~ave rarely found. either in
genitures or horary figures; and, therefore, {would wilh the reader to
note, in order to enab'e him to judge of other'·queftions Gf .tbeflike na..
ture, that, if the lord of the afcendant be in the feventh houfe, or the lord
of the fifth in the firft, ofihe.lord of the firft in the fifth; or, if the lord
of the 6fth be in the feventb, 'or ·the lord of the feventh in the fifth, or
the Moon pofited with them, _
or good planets: in the afcendaat, or with
the lord of the fifth. or fituated in any of the mgles ; there is none of
thefe inftances any fort of doubt but that the lady will concehe. But.
when none of thefe teftimonies concur, and barren figns or evil planets
occupy the above-mentioned places of the figure, fhe never has nor ever
will conceive. When goQd and ·evil planets are promifcuoufiy joined
together, file, may .perhaps conceive,,. and ,have children, b t they will
not live, nor karcely·ever come to..maturity.-But to return :-the lady
then pre1fcd m to inform her hoW long l thought it might be before
file thould conceive with her- firft child. To fatisfy her on this head.
~ r.efe,rrc;d to the fig~re, and obferved the Moon within fix degrees fifty-
_one..miiju~s of a pa_
rtile conjunctipn with Venus,.the querent~$ fignifica-
trbc'; an'd,_the, Moon being in a common ~gn• I computed the ~ime to
be at fix wee'ks ·and two'days; and, de(iring her to take notice of the time;
had no ·doubt but ilie w()uld foon after have reafon to believe·herfelf
• • · • I i•
pregoant. , . ·'· ·· · •
I(is not le!s'·rem~rkabie than true, that exaet.Iy as I bad predided the
event turned out; for the lady. fo~e months after, very p6lite1y··called
to thank me for the information I had given her, an'd· declared, ner con~
ception ~o have ta~en place as near as poffible from the time I h~d men·..
tioned. During this converfation, file defircd ~e to inform· h~r whether
lhe was ~reeding with a bQy or a girl ; and, finding her fcrioui in the.
demand, I folved it by the following figure. · · . · ··
Here
Digitized by Coogle
O. P A S T R. 0 L 0 a·Y. 353
n ~ %) • 3z
~q
~ <,
lo.
CP~ "': .,.~· '\. ~
·If ~:o 0
q .,.~~o 1)1-n,.
~ . 0 ..'\.,.
. 0
..
0 -Ia.
~
:-'
(:,• Is the ~~
~~ Q...UERENT
($'
·~,
PlliGNANT WITH A
BOY OR GIRL?
-If July S• Jh. Jom, P, M. 178J, ~
,($' b'
·~, -b ..
o'f
Q
,...~ IQ$
~· .." + ....... ....
0, ~
• ,r'cf>
$ . .
"'<\ • ../'
'o lo
• ·f>..,e., •,._o,. 0
" ~
~rV't
' .
-
-
Here the firft thing to be confidered is the lord of the afcendant,
which fignifies the mother ; and the lord of the fifth, which reprefents-
the child; together.with the afpcds of the pJanets to the abo~"e fignifi-
cators, and the angles of the figure; and, whether mafculine or· femi-
.uine J ..and fo judge by the greater teftimonies. In the above figure the
angles are feminine; and the Moon, which is a feminine planet, is: .
pofited in .a feminine fi.gn, feparating ' from a fextile afpect with the Sun
in a fign of the fame nature,. and applying to an oppoiition· with·Mars:.
lord of the afcendant and fifth, in a feminine 6gn alfo,. at the fame time-
that the is forming a platic trine with Jupiter, who is alfa polited in a:..
feminine figo; Co that we have five teftimonies that the lady was pregnant
with a girl. And therefore,. as there are but three teftimonies in favour oi
a boy, viz. the fextile af Jupiter to Mars,. which is mafculine, the figB
upon the cufp of the fifth houfe, .which is alfo mafculine, and the lord
of the fifth houfe, which is the fame, I informed the lady the might reft
perfectly a.tfured of having a girl,. and fo the event proved~ for indeed
. ~e~
~···
Digitized by Coogle
,
AN ILLUSTR.ATlON
thefe rules have never been known to fail in dete_
rmining queiUons o£
this nature. -
But, for a more general mode o( afcertaining whether alady be preg-
nant with a boy ·or girl, take partjcular notice of the afcendant and its
lord, and of the fift~ houfe and its lord J and n.ote whether the figns
epon 'their cufp$ be ~ither Aries, Gemi1_1i, Leo,.,Libra, Sagittarius, or
Aquaries, for thefe figns always import a male ; but, the other:fix give
a female. If the lord of the afcendant be in a mafculine fign, -and the
lord of the fifth in a feminine, thon have recouJfe to the Mo~ and; if
file applies to a planet in a mafculine fign, ~e Jives a boy; b~i4 if a fe-
minine, a girI. AIways remembe~; that the.m.a(culine plan~~ Saturn,
Jupiter, Mars, and the Sun; and t~ fe,rnmme, Venus ~~l· Moon.
Mercury, as he happens to be pofite'd·either witli a mafcvline ..,.minine
planet, inclines accordingly;· but, when he is O,riental of the . b, he is
reputed mafculioc; and., when occiqental, femini_
Jle; 1
.'J
The querent will fometimes afk how long lha hattl. concel~• . To
tefolve this, have regard to the Moon, the lord of the fiftb,_
aqd tbe lord
of the hour, and note which is neared fram the feparation of any planet,
~nd from. what afpect this feparation was;. if fr~m atrine.~fp~, lhe !s
sn the thud or fifth month of her -conceptton ; 1f from a f~tde, lhe ts
either two or fix cnonths gone·; ifthe !eparation was -ff'om a quartile,
the is in her fourth month; if from aa oppofition,· the bath conceived
feven months; but, if from a conjunCtion, her conception bas been only
one month. '·
Q_UE S TI 0 NIX. On taking SERVANTS.
A merchaDt of my acquaintance having lately an occafion for an ap-
pcr clerk, to fuperintend a bufinefs of confiderable truft and impor--
tance; and; being recommended to a perfon for this undertaking, of
whofe ability and indufiry he was {omewhat in doubt, called to aik. my
advice and opinion on the mattec, whether he was likely to anfwer hia:
purpofe or not. ·
' '•
2 The
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y.
Shall thct
Q...UE.RENT
ENGAGE
The Servantpropofed ?
Aug. 30, gh.-40Ql. A, M. 1784.
-1{. bor.
3SS
The firft houfe reprefents the querent, and the firth the quelited...
Venus, who is the q.uerent'"s fignificator, is 1ituated in her own terms;.
and Mara, who is fignificator of the fervant,. is fituated in her own term~
of Jupiter, accompanied with the Part of Fortune, in the eleventh houfe.-
which is the houfe of confidence and truft, and of friends and friend£hip;.
and is an irrefragable argument of mutual concord and good faith. Mars·
is alfo lord of the querent's fecond, as well as of the fervant's fixth, and
denotes that great advantages !hall acc11ue to the mafter by the fervant's
means; Saturn, in the .third houfe, is in partileafped: to Mars, anddenotes·
that the .dealings which may be conducted by the fervant lhall be very·
beneficial, though attended with great labour and difficulty, as is evi-
dently demonftrated by Saturn's pofition in the fign of Capricorn. The·
oppofitioo of the Son and Jupiter in a watery fign indicates that fome
little incomu;niencies may arife by the fervant's drinking rather too.freely;.
but, as the Dr.agon'-s Head, or fortunate node of the Moon, is pofited
in the fourth 'houfe, which fignifies the end or termination of the bufi..
nefs, it is felf-evident that all matters entruftcd. to the cue and manage-
No. 18. 4 Q.... · ment
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTllATION
ment of this fervant will terminate to the mailer's fatisfat'Hon and ad-
vantage. I therefore advifed him by no means to hefitate in taking him
into his Cervice. ·
QYESTION X. On COURTSHIP and MARRIAGE.
A young lady having for fome time received the addreifes of a gentle-
man of fortune, during which a variety of circumftances had occurred
to put off the much-wHhed-for day of confummating their nuptials; and
being alfo in doubt whether her lover had not fome attachment to an-
other lady, who lhared in his affeCtions, and fought for his company,
~e was induced to .come to me for my advice and opinion, whether the
' above gentleman was re~lly fincer.e in his profeffions to her, aQd whether
their ~rriage· tbould ever be confummated, and when ? Finding her
perfealy fincere and earneft in her withes, and the queftion truly radical,
l gave her my judgment as follows:
Shall the
Q._UERENT
MARRY
THE
Gentleman lhe loves?
Jan. 1, 6h. 17m. P.M. q81.
Ia
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T It 0 L 0 G Y. .357
. In this 6gore tho SWl is fignifitato.r of the lady; and Satura; lord of · k.
the fcveotb boule, is figniftcatar af tbe gentleman. . It mu.ft alfo be <». -1-r--
ferved that in this, and in llU quoilioos relative tQ matrimony, Mars aed '·
~he Sun are the nat\lral fignificators of a womaa's marriage J and Venus
and the Moon arc thofe of a man's. Now Saturn, the gcnt.Je~aa's figai.
ficator, is .-emarkably well J>Qfiecd in tbc fifth houfe, and has Venw
within his or~, applying lO him by conjunCtion ; which is a .very p~w...
erful ~nd.cation that his aifed:ions are fincere and honourable, aAd that
his mind is fully b~nt to tho marriage-ftate. The Sun likewife, being
in a fextile afpeet wi~h Mars, the lady's fignificator o( marriage, plaialy ·
thews her inclination to matrimony to be ftrongly fixed, and her affec..
tions perfetl:l,y 1incerc. ·
The next thing to be confidered, is, whether there be any fruftra.tion,
or impediting afped: between thefe fignificators; and, I find t.he Moon
and Venus, the gentleman's fignificators of marriage, are applying to a
quartile afpea. with each other. This is an evident proof th~.t the mar-
riage is prolonged by the interference of fome other woman, of this ge.o.-
tleman's intimate acquaintance, becaufe the afpeet is mad<: in a feminiQC
fign .; but as the Moon, in feparatin~ from Ven~, ~ppl.i.es to a perft.Ct
trine with Mars, the querent's. principal fignifica,tor of m.arriage, and
· alfo to a fextile of the Sun, her natural fignificator in the figure, it totally
removes the evil effeas of the malefic afpeCt, aQd leaves th_e path free anci
unobftrud:ed to th,e gates of Hymen~ This opinion is gre~tly firengthen-
ed by confidering the mode iri which their fignificators ar~ feverally dif..
pofed. Saturn difpofes of the Sun, who is pofited in the term of Venus•
and Venus, Saturn, a~d the Moon, are all difpofed of by the benevol.~nt
plapet Jupiter, who is himfelf difpofed of by Mars, the principal figni-
ficator of this lady's marriage, and who thus triumphs over every obftacle
to the celebration of their nuptials. I therefore could not hefitate in de-
claring to the lady, in the fulleft and mofi fatisfactory terms, that the
gentleman who courted her bad a fincere and tender regard for her; and
that, though fome circttmftances might have happened rather unfavour-
able to her withes, yet the might refl perfectly a1fured that he was the
man allotted to be her hu1band.
Apparently well fatisfied with thefe declarations, the proceeded to en-
quire in what length of time this defirable circumfiance might come to
pafs. To gratify her withes in this particular, I referred again to the
figure, where the Moon, the gentleman's principal fignificator of mar-
'iage, wants upwards of eleven degrees of forming il perfect fex_
tile afpect
' 2 with
·, Digitized by Coogle
I
.
' · ' r
..
AN ILLUSTRATION
..
with tbe Sun..(the lord of ·the •afcendant~and the fame to Mars, her figni..
ficator of marriage ; and therefore, by converting the degrees into_
_
_
t~j~ ,
by the rule heretofore given, I fixed her marriage at about the end of
three months, ·affuring her it would not exceed that tiO)e. The event
has fully proved the truth of the predidion; the lady and gentleman have
both done me the hoaour of a call fincc the celebration of their nuptials.,
and I found they ·were married precifely at the time I had predicted ; I
have likewife the additional .pleafare .to find, that my a1furances to the
lady wer~ productive of frefh efteem and clofer attachment to the man of
her hearr, and they now live a pattern of conjugal felicity.
Q._U E ST I 0 N XI. On W A R and B A T T L E.
During the trial of a certain noble Commander in Chief, at the Go-
vernor's boufe in Portfmouth, a company of ge_
ntleman one day called
upon me, and requefted I would take down the pofitions ~f the planets
at the time that much-tal~ed-of action commenced, .and give them my
judgment upon it, according to the rules of planetary influence. Wil-
ling to oblige them in a matter which I conceived could· be of no pre-
judice to any party, fince no advantage could be taken from it; 'and alfo
deeming it a fit fubject whereby to manifeft the fublimity and excellence
of this art, I hefitated not to promife them every information in my
power. For this purpofe I erected my figure, not to the time this
quelHon was propounded, for, it related to an event that had long been
pa1fed by, .and not to any matter th~t was hereafter expected to happen;.
and therefore I projected the fcheme to correfpond with the exact time
when this extraordinary action commenced, and at which moment the
heavenly bodies were under the remarkable configurations delineated in
the following fcheme :
The
Digitized by Coogle
OF ·As · T-ROL .OGY~
AN
Engagement at Sea.
Which lh:~ll have
VICTORY?
Jnly 27, "I 1h. rsm. A. M. 1778.
Ulhant, Lat. 1-9·
The afcendant, the Moon and Venus, reprefent the Britifh fleet ;
Mars and Aries denote that of the enemy. The fir11: thing to be con-
fidered is the afpeCl: thefe two fignificators bear to one another, which is
a partile fextile, a well-known indication of imperfect love; and, as it
thews that Mars and Venus have not in themfelves an inveterate hatred,
, fo it imports that tpe two commanders in chief did not behold each other
in an afpect of perfeCt and direful malignancy and wrath. Venus, lady
· of the afcendant, ,js pofited with Jupiter in his fall, a benevolent planet
and a Jo\•er of peace; and as he is in this figure lord of the third houfe,
and within fifty degrees of the afcendant, it indicates that both com-
manders have a defire to promote peace, by atling principally upon the
defenfive, .
and by guarding and protecting their refpeCl:ive coafl:s, without
a defire of any clofe or decifive action, or of venturing to any great dif-
tance from home.
The coo], cautious, deliberate, planet Saturn, is fitu&.ed in the fir11:
houfe, and indicates nqt fo much a defire for hot and precipitate action,
No. 18. + R . aa
Digitized by Googl~
!160 AN ILLUSTRATION
as for fdf-prefervation. or the protection of national woalth·, and this is
plainly exemplified in the Britilh admiral•a watchfulnefs and care in
covering and proteCting the homewar~-bound India fleet; as well as in
the French admiral's retiring after he found his views upon that rich
and unguarded 1tota.were tompletely fruftrated. The pofitioll of Mer-
cury, being combuft of the Sun, and difpofcr of the Moon) Venus, anCI
Jupiter, and lord alfo of the twelfth houfe, the houfe of privattenmity
and malice, indicates private ra~cour and enmity in a fubordinate com-_
mander; and, as Mercury is pofited between the two fignificators, Venus
and Mars, evilly dignified, and combuft, fo ho denotes the perfon repre-
fented by him will infallibly be governed by malevoleat principles, and
ufe his influence to retard the object of the bufinefs in hand. The truth
of this indication has, I think, been too well eCt:ablilhcd·to need any fur..
ther illuftration from me.
The enemy, as I have before obferved, is teprefented by Mars, who
is pofited in the tenth houfe, the houfe of honour, and in the fign of
his triplicity, but in the dignities of Jupiter; and this lhews that the
enemy would as much as poffible avoid clofe action, but would take the
advantage to lhift from fighting; and Mars, being in his faU deprives
the enemy of their honour, and clearly proves, that if a clo(e and well-
connected action had been kept up, and continued without cealing, a
decifive viCtory would have followed on the part of the EnglHh, becaufe
Jupiter is in conjunCtion with Venus and the Moon, whicb difpofes of
Mars; but, as Mars has the watery triplicity affigned him, he lhews the
enemy iliould take the advantage of that element to run away.
We find alfo, in the above figure, a quartile afpect of Saturn and Mer·
cury, a configuration which' is always known to produce tempeftuous
weather and {hong winds, and this we find was the cafe off Ulhant at the
time of the above engagement. The pofition of Mercury in the firft,
where Saturn is fituated, plainly indicates thefe winds to be highly con..
ducive to'the fafety of the enemy, but of dangerous tendency to the
BritHh fleet, in cafe of a purfuit.
After duly weighing the natural influences and eff'ects of the configu-
rations in, this figure, which are the true and genuine ftate of the hea-
vens at the time of the engagement, I hefitated not to declare, that both
commanders had a ftronger inclination to preferve peace than to break it,
and that a clofe connected and decifive aB:ion was Aot to happen, owing
to Saturn being in the afcendant on the fide of the Englith, with two
much thought and deliberation; and to Mars being in his fall in the
2 digniti~•
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
dignities of Jupiter, on the part of the French, which declares their
watchfulnefs to run away. This judgment is likewife further confirmed
by the two principal fignificators not forming a warlike.afpect, but ope-
rating by one rather inclined to tranquillity and peace.
Whoever contemplates the pre~ding figure, and defines its afpeCls by-
the rules laid down in this or in any other 'Treatifc on Aftrology, will
find no point ftrained ta effect the tendency of the foregoi~ judgment.
The meaning put ~pon them here is uniform and natural• .and no more:
than what they are and have been allowed to b~ar from the earlieft ages,
and fuch as every profefi"or of the art muft allow to be confonailt to the
ftriCl:eft rules of the fcience. If this be admitted, I think it muft ftrike
the fenfe of every intelligent man, that this pofition of the planets, on
the famous 27th of July, could not have been configurated to def~ribe the
particular turns of that action, by mere accident,. nor without having.
fome infl~nce upon it.-A {l:rong proof of planet.1ry operations, as. weU
as of the moral certainty of preditling by their means.
Q_U E S T I 0 N XII. On T H E F T.
Being once on ajourney through the Weft of England, and particular
bufinefs detaining me in a fmall town where fome of my friends lived.,
an atrocious robbery and burglary·was during that time committed in
the neighbourhood, intthe houfe of a poot old blind decrepid man, who,_
by hard labour and rigid ceconomy in his younger days, had Caved up·
three hundred pounds to divide among his children at his death. This·
money was kept in a nrong cheft by the bedfide where the poor old man
1ay; when fome villains, watching an opportunity in·the abfence of h[S.
family, made their way into his apartment, broke open the chef~. and:
carried off all the money undifcovered. My friends hereupon made it
known that I had fome knowledge of the occult fciences, and, if applied'
to,_ might poffibly give fome account how the money went; in· confe-
quence of which I received a letter the next day from the poor man's
eldeft foo, earneftly entreating my affiftance in making a dif«;ovcry o{ '
the robbers,_ and to endeavour to get reftored to his father fome part at
leaft of the little all he had been years labouring to fave up for hia cbil-
dreA. Moved with compaffion at fo cruel a circumftance, I determined
to do my utmoft to ferve this diftrc1fed family. and for this purpofe pro-
jetted the following figure.
The
Digitized by Coogle .
.r
I
AN ILLUSTRATION
0 N
'I HE F cr.
March :u ,]h,Jom, A.M. 17g3·
Sub lat. 5°
The fign Taurus, occupyingthe afcendant, gives Venus forthequerent's
flgnificatrix; the Moon lady of the fourth, reprefents the quercnt's
father, and the feventh and tenth houfes are to denote the thieves; and ,
Ghe reafon I allot two houfes for them is, bec.mfe the feventh houfe of
the figure is the natural fignificator of thieves to the querent, who was
heir to part of the money, and had been promifed it y his father, and
confequently bore a fhare in the lofs; and the tenth houfe being the
father's feventh, reckoned from his fidl:, or fourth in the figure, natu-
rally denotes thieves to him; and therefore, as the fon is quereot, and the
father had the principal fhare in the lofs, both .thefe houfes mufi be well
coofidered, before any account can be given of the thieves.
Here I find Jupiter, the lord of the eighth and twelfth houfe, pofited in
the tenth, out of all his e!fential dignities, in his fall, and confignifica-'·
tor with Mars; wherefore I dec1ared two perfons to be concerned in the
robb~ry, and defcribed them according to thefe fignificators, viz. a mid-
ille ftature, with dark brown ha1r, pale complexion, of a furly difpo...
fi tioa
o gitzed by Goc)gle
J
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
ntion, one fomewhat ·thorter than the other; and appe1red to be fons of
a perfon who had worked with or fC?r the querent's father.
My next bufinefs was to confider what was dode with the money; ands
as there are two fignificators in refpeB: of the queftion, namely, the fe-
Yenth houfes and their lords, fo there muft be two to reprefent the dif-
pofal of the money i and thefe are the fourth houfes and their lords.
Accordingly I find the Moon, who governs the querent's fourth houfe,
pofited in Scorpio, a watery fign; and, being alfo underneath the fign, l
declared fome part of the money was buried underneath a rock or ftone
over which the tide flowed, and near the habitation of the thieves,·
which I judged was not far diftant from the fea fide. Again, I find Mars
lord of the father's fourth, pofited in Capricorn, a beftial fign, in con-
junc9:ion with Jupiter, who governs corn, and with Saturn, who ruleg
the fruits of the earth i and, as Mars is the lighttr planet, and applies to
Jupiter, and as Jupiter is in the term of Saturn, I concluded that an-
.other part of the money had been paid away to fome hufbmdman or far-
mer, who rcfided about the difta11ce of eight miles follth from the pkcc-
where the robbers lived. -
When thefe £ircumftances were all thrown together, aa-d each duly
confidered, fufpicion feel upon two p~rfnns, wh0 were brothers, in every
refpeCl: anfwering to this defc~i :·~wn, <411J who, u;,on ~1"\qutrv, they found
had paid one hundred pou·,,:; LU .1 t;,.rmcr thrtt days aftlr the robbery
was committed, who livc.i in tb~ fiHvtiOll above ddcribed, and who
had for fome time threatened the p.L
rti's with an action,. on account of
their backwardnefs or inability to pay him. Upon this I W.1s afked, if
the parties were take::n up, whether any of the money would he recovered?.'
To anfwer this, I referred again to the fi6ure, and noted the fituation
of the two luminaries, both of which are afflicted. The.light of time-
is.pofited ill the twelfth honfe, in conjunetwn with Venus, lc1dy of the
afcendant, and fignifi.catrix of the queu:nt, which affords one ftrong ar-
gument againft recovering the money. The Moon is alfo greatly afflict-
ed in the fixth houfe, and in no afpeH tither to the ,Sun or to the
afcendant, but on the contrary is applying to a trine of Mercury, lord:
of the fixth, and this to a fe.xtile of Saturn, lord of the father's fixth,.
and alfo the fignificators of the two thieves; all which pofitions give the:
firongeft proofs of an utter impofiibiliry of recovering. any part of the
property, particularly as both tbe fignificators of the querent and his;
father are great~y aftliCl:ed by accidental pofitions, as well as by the
part of fortune being in coojundion with the Moon.'$ unfortunate:
No. 1S.. 4 S node
,
~~~ Digitized by Coogle
AN ILL.USTRATION
node, or Dragon's tail~ wherefore I jud&ed the money loll beyond reco..
very.
Many circumftances, however, afterwards concurring, to confirm this
fufpicion of the two brothers above alluded to, they were in confequence
taken into cuftody, and examined before feveral of the county magi(..
trates, who found fuffident grounds to commit tbem for trial at tho
next affizcs. They were in confequence arraigned; but, though fuf-
picion fell heavy upon them, yet, as no pofitive evidence could be ad-
duced to.prove they were caught in the faa, or to identify the money,
they were both acquitted, notwithftanding the long train of well-con-
nected ~nd concurring circumftances, which came out upon the trial, left
them guilty in ~e eyes of all the court.
Q.U E S T I 0 .N XIII. On L E G A C I E S.
A per{on of afr.ee and convivial humour called upon me to eactttire coo...
cernigg a legacy which his wife's mother had oftc.a promi.fedtolca.e them
at her death J but, having fome high words, in confequence of his loofe
way of living, the had latdy refcinded her former promifes; and, as this
lay upon his mind, and had vexed him for fome days pafi, he was now
ddirous to know, by· the celeftial intelligeocers, whether this legacy
would be lefc him or not. Finding the man ftncere in- his wiihes, and.
deeming the queftion perfectly radical, I proceeded &o give my j:~
upon the ma~r a• follows. . .
./
" Mercury
· Digitized by Coogle
Mercury is here lord of the ~ndant, and l'ignfficator o( the q~ent;
he is fituated in the feventh houfe, and difpofes of Jupiter, the fignifi..
eator of his wife,. who is pouted in the fourth, his own houfe, firoog
and powerful, and in trine afpea to the Sun:. The Moon's fortunate»
node·likewife fails in the wife's f-econd houfe,. iR fextile afpeEt: to the part
of fortune in the· querent's fecond; aU wbkh are very powerful tefti•
monieB that the querent's wife would: not lok ~r inherit~mee•. · This
opinion is ali\? ftrengthened by tFle pdition of the benevolent planet'
Jupiteat, who is lord of Pifces and the wife's: fignificator, and! lord al{o
Gf the wifo~s tenth, and figni6cator cf the mother, viz.. the foort-11' Mule
in th« figure.r which evide.ntly 1hews a mutual low and attachment be•'
w.cen: the aaotJ~r and dasghter, that noth:mg· but de;llm can·elface, and1
»wbicb. inheritamce wi.U follow.
\
The querent's fignificator being in his fall in Pifces, a watery fign~
and in conjunC\:ion with Venus, thews him to be a man given up to
drinking and conviviality, and perhaps to other fpecies of intemperance,
~
Digitized by Coogle
A N ·1 L L U S T ll A T I ·o N
as is denoted by the quartile of Jupiter and Mercury; and farther ibew•
that it has in forne mcafure bten the means.of alienating the wife's atFec..
tions from him. And as Mercury is difpofed of by Jupiter, in a femi-
nine fign, and pofited with a feminine planet, and being alfo ~ontrover­
tible in his nature to the quality of any planet he is in configuratioll
with, plainly manifefts the querent to be of an df~minilte mind and fpi·
rit, content to give up all rule and government to his wife, Co he has
but the enjoyme~t of his friend and his bottle.
. The fituation of the Sun and the Dragon's Head in the wife's fecond,
or querent's eighth, denotes that he had heretofore received a legacy by
the death of his wife's father; which being mentioned, he readily con-
fe1fed that it was fo. This legacy he appears to have fquandered away,
as is manifefied . by the part of fortune being in conjonCl:ion with the
Dragon's Tail in the fecond houfe. And now, taking all the foregoing
afpects together, and noting that the Sun,· the natural fignificator of
fathers, is pofi ted in his exaltation, with the Moon's fortunate node,
and free from all fruftation or affiidion; and, notwithftanding the que-
rent bad fquandered away the fidl: _
legacy by the father, and bad lately
fallen out with the mother; yet I bcfitated not to declare, that, ~ccord­
ing to the heft of my .judgment, he would be certain of the legacy by
the mother alfo; not out of an.y regard or love to him, but purely
through her afFection and anxioufnefs 'for the welfare and happinefs of
her daughter. ·
Q...U EST I 0 N XIV. . On the Succefs.of a FLEET.
At the time Admiral Rodney fet fail for the Weft Indies,. with a
grand fquadron under his command, and a convoy of above three hundred
fail of merchant lhips, exhihiting at once the pride, the glory, and the
riches, of this great commercial empire, I was applied to by fome naval
gentlemen, who particularly r('queftt:~ me to give them my opinion OQ.
the fuccefs of the admiral's expedition, and the fafety of his fleet.
Many opinions had for fome time been in circulation relative to this
equipment, and many of the, firfi-rate connoiffeurs in .politics bad un-
dertaken to declare it too weak for the objeCt of its deftination, and that
it would faJl an eafy prey to the enemy J I was therefore the more readi-
l_y prevailed.upon to project a figure f'!r this queftion, upon which 1 dc-
hvered my ;udgment as,follows. ·
The
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A -
S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
~ 0. 46
)(
Fomahaut
Shall the
Well-India Fleet,
UNDE&
ADMIRAL RODNEY,
Prove SuccEssFuL?
December :~s, 1779·
Sub lat. so" ,o·
3-67
The watery fign Aquaries, falling upo·n the afcendant, gives Saturp for
thci admiral's fignificator; and, as Pifees · al Co falls intercepted in the
fi.lfl houfe, Jupiter, lord thereof, mufi have confignification of all thofe
that accompanied him. The ninth houfe reprefents the voyage, the firft
houfe or afcendant the port or fi:ation from whence they fet fail, the fe-
venth houfe the quarter to which they are de£Hned.. and the lord thereof .
denotes the obftacles or enemies they lhall meet with; the fourth houfc
reprefents the completion of the voyage, and the accomplilhment and
termination of the objeCt or bufinefs of the expedition; the whole of
which are to be feparately and difiinttly contemplated.
Saturn, the fignificator of the commaRder in chief, is pofited in the
medium cceli, the houfe of pe-rferment and honour; and, being at the
fame time in Sagittarius, a fign of the fiery trigon, and contrary to his
own nature, defcribes him to be a man of a free, generous, and noble,
fpirit, ambitious of glory and applaufe; and, having been lately in con-
junction with the Moon's unfortunate node, and now in the very degree
of its exaltation, thews him to have been under great anxiety and dif-
No. 18. 4 T trefs,
Digitized by Coogle
' . .
AN ILLUSTRATION
trefs-, in reg~rd to his private circumfl:ances. But this afBitlion appears ·
only as a dark cloud, which, when the frorm is over, quickly gives way
to the all-cheering and enlivening beams of the refrelhing Sun. And
this "is evinced by the admiral's fignificator having juft feparatcd -from
this malignant configuration, and afterwards forming a propitious fextile
afpect in the zodiac, and a mundane trine afpect to the fecond hot.tfe, the
. houfe of profperity, fortune, and riches, aided by Mars, the lord there·
of, who is fituated in the firft houfe, and in his own-triplicity.
In examining thefe lignificators, I find Saturn, who reprefents the
admiral, is difpofedof by Jupiter, lord of the tenth houfe, the honfe of
princes, which iliews his appointment came from the king himfelf.
Venus, lady of the enemy's houfe of fubftance, as well as an the fignifi-
cators of the enemy, and part of fortune a1fo, are difpofed of by Saturn,
Jord of the afcendant; and Mars, the natural fignificator of war, and
lord of the Britifu admiral's houfe of fobftance and riches, it pofited
in, the afcendant, in tl'ine to Scorpio, his own fign, in the ninth, the
houfe of fee-voyages; ·and, being alfo in his own triplicity, fhews that
this voyage lhall be profperous and important• . This judgmeat is greatly
· ftrengthened by the pofition of the propitious fixed ftar Fomahaut
in the firft houfe; which, being of the nature of Venus and Mercury,
and of the firft magnitude, and joined with Mars in Pifcet, declares
great riches,_ honour, and preferment, thould be acquired by this voyage,
and fuch as thould place the noble commander above the frowns and ma-
lice of both his public and private enemies. ·
The fign on the feventh houfe, and the intercepted figrl Virgo, thew
the defiination of the fleet; and the Sun and Mercury reprefent the
enemies they !hall meet with; and, as the lord of the fevcnth is pofited
in a fign that has more planets within its degrees than one, fo it points
out that the admiral iliall be engaged with more fleets than one. Here
is alfo a moft remarkable reception between Venus and Mars in exaltati-
on; Mars being pofited in the fign of the exaltation of Venus, and Venus ·
in the fign of the exaltation of Mars; and, as Venus is lady of the ene.
my's houfe of fubftance, this reception declares that the BritHh fleet will
capture many rich and noble prizes, and make great havock with the fub-
ftance or riches of the enemy. Mars being in fextile afpeet with the
part of fortune, and the Sun lord of the feventh, lhews thefe prizes
lhall be taken with much fighting. And that the victory lhall declare
itfelf on the fide of the Englilh, is manifefted by Venus, figni.ficatrix:
of the enemy"s fubftance, being difpofed of by Saturn, the lord of the
afcendant, and fignificator of the Britiili admiral.
After·-.
Digitized by Coogle
·0 ·F A S T R. 0 L 0 0 Y. 369.
After duly weighing the probable tendency of all the(e propitious
afpects, and reBeCiing that the Moon, whofe infl~ence is confiderable,
is pofited in the dignities of Saturn; and, that Jupiter and Saturn difpofc
of all the planets in the figure; and,. likewife that Jupiter and Saturn
are the grand -fignificators of the .BritHh admiral and fleet, I boldly af-
firme'd this expedition would prove fortunate and fuccefsful, crown.ing
its commanders, and all under them, with honour, glory, and riches,
and adding immortal fame to the annals of the Britiili page. This ia a
fad: that has accordingly happened, and fuch as comes within the cogni•
zance of every individual.
QlJESTION XV. On PLACES and PREFERMENTS.
A gentleman whohad for fome time been foliciting for promotion in
the army, and having met with feveral unpleafant rebuffs,. which made
him almoft defpair of fuccefs, came to a1k my opinion whether, if he
pcrfevered in his folicitations, he Lhould eventually obtain the preferment
he fo much deured. I gave my judgment of this 'iueftion from the fol·
lowing figure.
~
'"ir.
...,,.,.
~· 4\ 'tPt~
0 •
~40'¥.-., (' ~0 ~ q. ~~o'\ . 5
'b ~· of.).'\.(\ "
.;>
,.
... . '0--· .
ob
.""~ 0
~
Shall the
~UERENT
ATTAIN THE
Promotjon defired l
Ma.:.:as h
i ~ ho:.u · 53m. A.M. 113.a
dia
) • Sub. lat. so•so'
+
<, •
Here
....
oigrtized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
Here the celeA:ial Crab afcends upon the horofcope, and the Moon,
fignificatrix of the querent, is pofited in the fign Leo. The tenth houfc
bears lignification of the querent's honour and promotion; and the ele-
-venth denotes his friends and patrons. The Moon, lady of the afcend-
ant, being pofited in the fecond houfe, out of aU .hEr eifential dignities,
declares the querent to be in diftreifed circum~a~~ -~9~ that his failure
hitherto has been greatly owing to the want of rfloney. ·His patrons in
the prefent bufincfs are defcribed by 'Venus, who being pofited in the
1ign Pifces, in every degree of her exaltation, thews them to be of fuf-
ficient weight and intereft to accompliili his defires; and, as Venus is
atfo in a propitious fextile afpect with Mars, and in trine to th~ afcen...
dant, it indicates that his petition iliall be attended to, and his wilhes
gratified•
. This judgment is abundantly confirmed by the following confidera..
dons. The Sun is pofited in the medium cceli, the houfe • of his ex-
. altation; and the fortunate node of the Moon is conjoined with him
in the tenth alfo, which is an irrefragable arguO)ent of honour a~d pre-
ferment. It is alfo to be obferved, that the Sun is lord of the fecond .
houfe, and difpofes of the . Moon, the querent's fignificatrix: and thus
1hews that his preferment iliould be in the military line. And .as a
watery fign rifes upon his afcendant, and occupies the cufp of his ninth
... houfe, and as Mercury, lord of his third houfe, is pofited in his ninth,
it declares he lhctll be fubject to an employment upon water; and, being
in Scorpio, a fixed fign, denotes the qnerent lh.all be fu bjed to a long
continuance upon the water, and at a great diftance from home. Venus
being likewife in the fame fign, in the triplicity of Mars, and Mars in
the triplicity of Venus, and in fextile afpett of each other, dc:notes he
lhall hereafter meet with a number of friends, and prove remarkably
for_.tunate in his po(l.· This poft is reprefented by the 11tuation of the
Moon in Leo, and Mars in Taurus, and the Sun in Aries, to be a com-
mand on-board lhip, over foldiers or marines; and this he acknowledged
was what he had been foliciting for, and what I tola him he would cer-
tainly fucceed in.
He then requefted me to afcertain the length of time in which I fup-
pofed this comma~d would be given him. I took notice of the degree
the Moon was in, and what application lh.e had made. I obferved {be
bad lately been in trine afpetl of the Sun, which ftrongly prompted the
querent to pufu forward for promotion; and her next application, being
to a trine with her fortunate node, decJares this promotion ihall be
very 1hortly attained, though with difficulty, becaufe !he is at the fame
2 tiDne
/
Digitized by Coogle
.() _F·:· A. S·T R.. 0 L 0 G Y. · 37..-
time forming «qlJarti~ afpett: with M•rs, which 1hcws that fomo per..
Ion of confequence is endca.votning to exclude him,.·in order to make
way for another perfon. I further informed him that the men under
hj& command would provq faithful and obedient; and that he himfelf
would ~ iottuuate .and .fu~c~ftful in executing his c:ommiffion. and gain
confiderable honour and appla'*. T~. trt~th o£ Jhi8 .pred;Ction was·
very foon after exemplified in the rapid progrefs the querent made in
all the acquirements of honour and .profpirity;ana I ·ha.v~ frequently bad
Qe_pleaf11tC of rcceivJrag hia.thanks f~. the .information I gate. him ort
the a~Y¢ ocoafipn. .. . . · ·: · .: . · : · ·j . . • .
·;::_··.ti..v t·¥.ri~.o¥,,. xv.r~:·:.·9~·::i)\t~:~R r&;.o ~).1 ~NT~:...
, A ·paifou>o£ ktrcdit, ·during-'the bte:war,: boiiJr, taken up oa fofpicloti
Qf giving pa:ivace iM"o!imation to the tm:imy, . or of aiding and afliaing 1n
fo.ch a uaiteroos cor«!p~nce, ·was ·coaimi~terl foi t'riai at the enfuing
aftizcs; aiulbis wife,.>uudcr;all. ~he ~ortQrs-;of.dithcfs aad aBliCUosli:Oama
to enquin: of me bow tHt macter.wdbld.termiliae, wbtdJC'Zher bU11Dan4
would fuife~ death, ·or .be ~ue4 ~of :&Ire.tthne bid to hiit ·-chUge.-
The anxi~ry Of ~ poor.:WOdlan \?IU: ~ l\dficiett·c ptoof Qf the fm-ccrrit7
Gf l:lcr cleu~; .·and thtr_efote, b~~tii~S t&e.t dc>wta the preci~ tim~ af·the
day, I cretted the following khonJC) to. refGtvc dte queft~oll: " ·
.·.
:_ .•. be found
~lcNtT't; orlb~z.\siD P
' .,
t •• .
• .Jl. .
• . c,~ .
·~
4t .'
;,.~. . .: ' ®~
. ,.. ,J'J'. • ' • ~- ' 6- ;, .·
• J'cr· . . • . . ~ , e
-i', ' ~ . tit ' . .. . : •-'-
~ ,. • :p
-
No. 19. 4U Sagittarid's
Digitized by <:;;oogle..
372 A N I L L U S. T It:· A_, T '·l :o N
Sagittarius. being upon tba·tufp of the a·fcen(iaht., Jh~iter·· is 1ord
thereof, and the querenes fignificator, Gemini defcends· on the cufp
of the feventh, and gives Mercury as fignificator of the hulband; the
twelfth houfe fignifies the prifon, and the prifo~er's profecutors ; the
tenth hou.fe and its lord deftl>tes the judge J and the ·foutth houfe de-.
clares the trial, or termination of the matter.· · · : •' .·
.. Now Mercury, the lord of the feventh boufe, and fignificator o£ 'th6
hufband, is pofited in.the .twelfth, the houfc of imprifonment, and it
difpofed of by Mars, tne fignificator of private enemies, ·who is pofited
in the tenth ho~c or medium.~~li, Y(hich 1\ere . figQifi~~ the .houfe of
juftice and mercy. The afcendant denotes :the- ptifoner'i open enemies
or ·aecufers J and, as J~piter" i~ pcmted therein~ tHong~ and in conjunction
of Saturn, Jord of. the. fecond, -it thews his profecutors are perfobs of
rank and power, who are.po1fe1fed of every ability to carry oq the prole~
,cution againft. him. _The .Moon, lady of the houfe of death, being in the
fourth, in .tcine to thp .afcendant,· 1he.ws. that the accufation oc indict-
ment is of fuch.a natUre as threatens the prifoner's life. .But; finding the
Dragon's tail in the tenth, arid the part of fortune in .the fixth, difpofed
of by Venus, and at the fame time in oppofition to Mercury, the pri-
foner's fignificator, I waa clearly of opmion that the diftribution of
money amon~..t~ofe who ap~s.aF~~ .~o J>e his fricnd_s, would greatly
tend to favc h1s life, and facfihta~)l.1S enlargement. ·- - . •. ·
' Finding the Moon, lady' of tfe ~)ghth houfe of thlf!gor~, pofited
in the fourth, and going to an'oppofition of Mars and Venus, I hereby
imagined the prifoner woulg run -~ great hazard of his lifC' io attempting
to efcape ou(of prifoo, b3 being fired upOQ; a d ~his I found after-
wards happened, though no further mifchiet:"en'fued. I next confidered
the application of the Moon, afte.r her_feparatw~rorn the above afpetls,
and I find her going to a propitio.us trine afp~Cl: with Jupiter, the figni-
ficator of his enemies, and from thence applyi~g to an ORJ>Ofition of the
Suo, and to a fign of Saturn ; and as Saturn is lord b(,his eighth
houfe, and the Moon lady of his fecohd, I judged that h~p~ld cfcape
the hand of juft~ce, by being ~dm~~~~d:an. evidence, ~hic'h in(the courfe
of a ~ew months.'a~terwards .r~a~ly happened~, te t}:le·p~efervyion of hit
own hfe, a~d to the deftrucb~n of that of h1s accOillphce. ~lf ·
I . : ; • ~ ·. ..., . . . , . ~ -.4..
Thus have I ·given fufHcient _
examples of t'e verity and utility of
Aftrology in the qrie1lionary-.way; ,which; though~,ilot of fo much im-
portance, nor always attended with ·(o much certainty, as the geriethlia-
caJ, yet it is not·to be whollydifr~garded, fince in many c~fea, as we have
abundantly
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 873
abr.nd:fn.tly fhewn, it..may fafely be reli~d on. I thall· therefore difmifs
this part of the fcience, with once more obferving, that horary queftions
1hould never be made ufe of when the querent's nativity can be had;
as fo much ~ore certainty depends upon the one than upon the other,
and of courfe affords greater fatisfaCl:ion to every perfon who bends his
mind to the knowledge of futurity.
· Before I enter upon the management of nativities, it will not be im-
proper, in this place,. to give the rules, by which the reader may be
enabled to afcertain the kind of perfon each planet reprefents, when fig-
nificator, in all or any of the twelve figns of the zodiac. By the help of
thefe, it is eafy to determine what kind of perfon the new-born babe
wilJ be, when it arrives to years of maturity; and .we can alfo, by the
fame ·means, as truly defcribe the ftature, complexion, make, and dif·
pofttion, of a perfon we never faw, provided the true time of birth be
previoufiy known. Thefe rules are therefore abfolutely nece1fary to be
well underftood by every perfon who is defirous of calculating a nativity.
PERSONS defcribed by SATURN. in the TWELVE :SIGNS of-
the ZODIAC.
· SATURN. in the 6go Aries reprcfents a .perfon of a frelli ruddy com-
plc:xiqn, fpare, and large boned, full face,. deep voice,· dark hair, .with. ,
little beard; addiCted to (elf-commendation .and praife; and giv.
en to
boafting of valour and courageous undertakings., when_there. is but little
caufe; b~ing generally a contentious quarrelfome. bravado, .and confe~
quently very ill-natured.
Saturn in q'aurtts dcfcribes an uncomely .perfon, of a. heavy, lumpiili,
aukward, appearance, with dark hair, rough fkin, middling fi.ature, of
a rugg_ed uneven difpofttion, inclinable to vicious and ford_id atlions_
unlefs· tk~ortunate ftars, by their propitious rays, modify and temper
this otherwife baneful influence.
Saturn in Gemini reprefents a perfon of a moderately tall ftature, .of .a
dark fanguine complexion, oval. vifage, and well proportioned body, the
hair either dark brown or black. The native is generally very-ingenious,
.but unfortunate in moft of his undertakings; his difp~fition ia. naturally,.
perverfe, felfHh, and crafty, and therefore warily to bo deal~.with. .. .
Saturn in Cancer denotes one of a weak and infirm canftitution of
body, of a thin middling ftature, rather ill-proportioned, and fometimes ·· ·
1 crooked;.
/ ·•· l"
) '
Digitized by ..._bog~e-
37.f. A N t L L U S T R A T. I' 0 N
-
-crooked; a pale meagre countenance, fad brown hair, and languid ey•s )'
of a. morofe and jealous difpofi tion, leaning to vicious inclinatibns, and
very deceitful in his dealings·. /
Saturn in Leo gives a perfon of a moderate large fi:ature, broad round
thoulders, wide cheft1 light brown ha.ir, of a furly aufiere afpeEt, .ra-
ther lean, and hollow-eyed, large bones and mufdes, and bends or
ftoops forward in going. The qualities of the mind and difpofition are
tolerably good, and carry an a_ppearance of noblenefs and generofity J
though fo_
mewhat pafiionate, and eager of revenge, but neither courage-
()us nor valiant when put to the teft.
Sat•rn in Yirgo rcprefents a pecfon of a tall fpare body, fwar.thy com-
- plexioa, dark brown or black hair, and much of it; a loog vifagc, and
\; folid courattnaaee, but generally an unfortunate perfon, much indiaeti
\. to Qldancholy, and retaining anger long; a projeaor of maoy cwio-
\..fities to little purpofe i fiudious, fubtle, and referved; alld, ualef& foaw
"'\ther configurations of the planets contradict, is too much addit:1ed to
pilfering and indjreH dealing.
Saturn in Libra defcribes a perfon above the middle ftature, tolerably
,bandfome, brown ha~r, an oval face, a large nofe and forehead, a mode-
rately clear complesion, yet not beautiful; not willing to entertain low
nr mean thoughts of themfelyes, fomewhat prodigal in expcnces, ami
confequently rarely· leave any confiderable eA:ate behiJsd them for their
.children to enjoy; the}' are eafily moved to controvcrfy and <kbate, and
often come off viaors. ·
Saturn in Scorpio repre(ents a perfon of a middling ftature, a {quare
thick well-fet body, broad ilioulders, black or dark hair, and ufually
filort and thick; very quarrelfome and contentious, delights to create
mifchief, and to promote violent and dangerous atlions, though to his
.own detriment and infelicity.
Saturn in Sagittarius ufuaJly gives a full ftature, brown hair, .the
·body very conformable and decent, th~ complexion not mucb amifs; a -
difpoficion fufficiently obliging, not courteous, but moderately frugal,
rarely profufe, but fomewhat choleric, and by no means able to beu
an affront, yet willing to do good to all, and fometimes too apt to com..
ply, and raibly make fuch promifes as cannot conveniently be performed
without prejudice* a real lover of his friend, and merciful to an enemy.
.
. .
Saturn
Digitized by.Google
0 F A S T 1l ·0 L 0 G Y. ais
Saturn in Capricorn perfonates a lean raw-boned perfon, with -dark
brown or black hair, a rough 1kin, a middle ftature, rather inclined to
brevity than tallnefs, an obfcure falJow complexion, · tittle eyes, long
vifage, and an ill pofture in going ; for the qualities of the mind, Sa-
turn fo pofited, and fignificator, ufually gives a difcontented, melan-
choly, pcevilh, perfon, covetous of his goods of this life, not addiCl:ed
to ufe many words, a lover of the earth, and all things of profit pro..
duced from thence, fearful, . fubjecl to retain anger, and rarely ' wants a
reafonable portion of gravity. ·
,Saturn in AfJMarie.r .reprcfents a full ftature, a large head and (ace, the
body rather inclin1ble to ·corpulency than otherwife, dark brown hait, .
and a clear complexion, a fober graceful deportment, very affable and
rourtcous, of an ctcellent fearching fancy, and generally a very happy
proficient in what he labours after, whet~er it\ fciences 'or curious' arts;
apt to conceit and think well of his own ·powers and abilities, and
therefore fubjetl to no ill-becoming pride; but naturally a perfon of a.
very pregnane genius~
. .
Saturn in P!fces reprefents a perfon of a middle ftature, pale complex..
ion, with hair tending to blacknefs, a large head, and a full eye, fome;.
times the teeth ditlorted, not very comely, yet aaive, and too much in-
clined to diffimrilation, contentiou.s, malicious, and· ptone to many ill
actions, which aba~e as the perfott grows in years ; not loquacious,
J;ut Ytry d.Jliberate ; iri fine, it deno~ea an uncertain fickle perfon in moll
thingt, one that is able to prefent a good outftde,, but will prove in thb
.:nd fradulcnt and deceitful, and thcrtfote warily to be confided in.
PER~ONS reprefented by JUPITER in- each of the TwELVE SIGNS.
. .
Jupiser in .Aries defcr~bes a middle-ftatured perfon, of a ruddy com-
plexioo, with light btown or .flaxen hair, quick and piercing eyes, a
high nofe, and fometimes pimples in the face, an oval vifag.e, the body
rather loan than corpulent J but generally a perfon of a noble and free
difpofition, one that loves a good outfide, and to demean himfelf with
much generofity amongft his friends and a1fociates, and confequently
very obliging and complacent. _. ,
Jupit~r in.'Iaurus gites aperfon of a middle ftpture, well fet, a fwar~
thy complexion, brown rugged hair, fomewhat curling or frizzled, a
wcU•compaCted body, but not decent, the difpofition reafonably good.
No~ 19. 4 X the
Digitized by Google
I
AN I L L U S T R A .T I 0 N I - .
the judgment. found, and a perfon of no co~temptible .deportment; a
lover of ,the female fex, and generally good-natured, and free to fuch
objc8s as deferve charity and compaffion.
Jupiter in Gemini reprefents a decent ~ell~compofed body, with fan-
guine complexion, not very clear, a perfon above a middle ftature, -rather
tall than otherwifc, brown hair, full becoming eyes, a graceful deport-
ment, very affable and courteous, a gentle, mild, obliging, perfon, an
admirer of the female fex, efpecially tbofe of the moft refined wit and
beauty, a general lover of learning; but, if Jupiter be near violent fixed
fl:ars~ it renders the perfon raili and unftable in his aCtions, and confe-
quently inimical to himfelf, and unacceptable to others.
Jupiter in Canter gives a perfon·of a middle ftature~ a pale, unwhole-
fome, fickly, complexion, fiethy, or inclinable to corpulency, dark
brown hair, an oval face, and the body moftly difproportioned; a bufy
loquacious pcrfon, too apt to intermeddle with other men's affairs, con-
ceited and high, has no mean thoughts of his own abilities, ~great lover
of women; fortu·nate by water, and delights to be thereon, and yet a
perfon of very littl~ courage or valour, unlefs his fignificator be well
beheld of Mars. ·
Jupiter in Leo reprefents a {hong well· proportioned' body, tall of fta-
ture, light brown or yellowiili curling hair, ruddy complexion, full
eye, and a pe,rfon fufficicntly comely; in difpofition very noble minded,
-courageous, magnanimous, lofty ; delighting in valiant warlike aCtions
and atchievemcnts he proves a terror to his enemies, and a perfon that
fcorns to bend to an adverfary, but will encounter with any danger or
hazard for the fake of honour. ·
Jupiter in Pirgo gives a perfon of a reafonable full ftature, brown
hair tending to blacknefs, ruddy complexion, but not fair or clear, a
well-built perfon, and one we term handfome, having a due proportion
and conformity in all the members; in difpofition fomewhat· choleric,
and ambitious pf honour, inclinable to boafting, ftudious, yet covet-
·ous, and through rathnefs fubjeCl: to lo1fes in eftate; in fine, not eafily
wrought upon by_ any perfon.
-
Jupiter in Li!Jra perfonates a compleat body and inviting countenance,
a moft clear complexion, a full eye, an upright ftature, rather tall than
·otherwife, not grofs but flender, an oval face, light' brown hair, fame-
times
Digitized by Coogle
0 ' F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
times flaxen, fubjeCl: to pimples in the face; of a very mild difpofition
and winning behaviour, a great delighter in noble exerci{es and recrea-
tions, obliging to all perfons; and confequently gains much honour
and efteem.
Jupiter in Scorpio reprefents a perfon of a middle ftature, a well com-
pacted body, brown hair, a full .tlelhy face, a dull complexion; but,
in difpofition, a lofty, proud, ambitious, perfon ; one that defires and en- -
deavours to bear rule over his equals, refolute, and ill-natured, cove-
tous, and guilty of too much fubtlety in all his actions ; and therefore
ought warily to be dealt with by thofe- who 1hall be concerned with
fuch a perfon.
Jupiter in Sagittarius gives an upright tall ftature ·of body, chefnut-
coloured hair, oval face, ruddy complexion, much' beard, a good eye,
a perfon every way decently compofed; in difpofition very courteous
and affable, of a moft noble graceful deportment and behaviour, jaft in
~dl his atl:ions, and injurious to none, generally a great lover of horfes J
;Jnd, in fine, a moft accomplHhed perfon, deferving commendation and
more than ordinary refpea from all per1ons with whom he convcrfes and
a1fociates.
Jupiter in Capricorn gives a mean ftature of body, a pale complexion,
thin face, little head, not much beard, a fmall weakly perfol) generally,
yet ingenious; brown hair, forrietitnes the beard lighter of colour than
the hai.r of the head ,; in.qualities and.conditions not very commendable,
low-fpirited, peevHh, not very aaive nor fortunate in the world, unlefs
fome other teftimonies affift; in fine, a very helplefs, indigent, harm-
)efs, perf~n.
Jupiter in .Aquariu perfonates a middle ftature, brown hair, indif..
ferently well fer, a clear complexion, rather a corpulent body than .
otherwife, and well compacted; in difpofition chearful and affable, hurt-
ful to none, hut obliging to all, delights in decent and moderate recrea- .
tion, very juft and' merciful, even to thofe that are enemies; in lhort,
a very good-huo1oured, laborious, induftrious, perfon, rarely guilt:Y of
any extravagance, but generally of a very commendable difpofition and
deportmcnt. ·
Jupiter in Piftes defcribes a perfon of a middling ftature, of a dark
complexion,. fie1hy body, and light brown hair, a !larmlcfs creature, yet
1 ftudious
I
oigitized by Coogle
szi A N I L L U S T . R Pi. T I 0 N
...
~udioue iu profound·matters, and endowed with Yery ex~e1lent ·natural
parts and acq~iremcnts, fortunate upon the water, and one that gains
Jove frOQl ·~fe. he bath cQDverfation wi~h. fometimes proves a .reafon•
able good friend, arid delights in good company, if the Moon dart her
quartile or oppofite afpeCts. .
Jupiter u(ually·lignifies good teeth, as Saturn doth the contrary, and
fometimee: produces_fome appvent mark in the fore-teeth J Jupiter, itt
2$1 airy fign, gives· broad fore··teeth ; in a fiery fign, crooked, ·or dif..,
torted; in an earthy fign, foul teeth ; but, in a watery .fign, the teeth
decay fuddenly, and grow black and rotten; and this the more certain
if Jupiter be in any bad ·afpect of Saturn or Mars, or in conjunction
with the Dragon's tail. ·
. ' .
When Jupiter is fJgnificator, and pofited in·a watery fign, the per(oa.
Is fat and comely ; in an airy fign, more ftrong and corpulent, with a
~ecent CQmelinefs and .proportion of body ; in an earthy fign, aweJI.
~ompofed body, not fat.nor lean, but a mediocrity, ·provided he has not
mu~h latitude, and in no afpeet with other planets; but, if in 2 fiery fign,
the body is.r~thr::r fquare than corpulent. If Jupiter l?e 6gnificator, and
pofited in a watery fign, the perfon has fome impediment in hia fpeech,
or fpeaks with great deliberation; this is the more certain, if in quartile
or oppofition to Mercury. · · ' ·
:PERSONS def~ribed by MARS in eaoh.o( the TW.ELVE SIGNS.
:Mars in .Arits reprefents a .perfon· ~f"~iddl~; dature, ·of a fw~rthy
complexion, well fe't, large: bones, light hair, or fom~times ~ed and cur•
ling, and auftere cburitenance-; if Mars be occidental, the C<?mplexion is
more ruddy and the body more fmooth; if oriental, the perfon is talJer of
ftat~re, and the ~ompl.e.xion .not fo .f~arthy, and it readers: the:native
more comcty ·and valiant; in difpofi,tion, Mars in Aries ever ~ews ~bold,
confident, utidaunted, perfon, choleric, lofty, defirous to bear rule over
others, and fcorns to fubject himfelf to any perfon; ·a true lover of war,
and oft~n gains preferment and great advancement thereby. . . ·
. .
· Mars in 'Taurus gives a middle-1l:~tured perfon, .well 'Jet, rather thor~
than talJ, pretty corpulent, of no clear' complexion',· brown orbl~k rug-,
ged hair, a broad face, wide mouth, generally a well-fet body, fometimes
ruddy, ilnd marked-in the facer it reprefents a profligate perfup6 one that "
gives himfclf much libertY. in all ma~ner of vi~iOlli. actions,_ as gaming,
· · · · ·; · drinking,
Digitized by Coogle
.•
6 F .A S T ll. 0 L 0 0 Y,
-dFink.ing, wenching, ~c. and., in fine, a very trcacheroqs, debauched,
ill-natured, unfortunate, perfon, unlefs the fortunes interpofe their
friendly ray&. lf M~rs be ne.ar the Pleiades, this defcriptiQq is ag~
sravated.
I
Mars in Gemini perfonates a reafonably tall fiature, black. or brown
hair 1 the beginning of the fign gives it lighter; it: it falls near Alde-
baran, the complexion is tending to fanguine, the body well propQrti-
oned, and the ·members conformable, but a very unfettled perfon in
moll of his aElions, yet ingenious in many things, though unfortunate
in all ; and generally lives in fame mean condition, iliifting hare and
there, exercifing his wits for a l~velihood.
Mar.s in Cancer gives. a 1hort perfon, of bad complexion, brown hltir,
and much of it; a difproportioned body, fometimes crooked, and tho
condition of the mind for the mofi:, part as crooked ; a dull fottith per-
fan, of few or no commendable actions, unfortunate, always engaged ,
in fame fervile or mean employment, and is rarely capable of better.
Mars in Leo gives a fl:rong abJe..hodied perfon, of a fun-burnt com-
plexion, tall, with light flaxen hair, large limbs, and great eyes; a hafty
choleric perfon, whofe j>aflion too often overfways his reafon; delights
in warlike exercifes, as thooting, riding, .fighting, &c. but naturally a
noble generous free-fpirited perfon, efpecially to fuch as obferve him,
and endeavour to oblig..~ him. ·
Mars in Yirgo give a middle-llatured w~ll-proportioned body, black
or dark brown hair, the complexion fwarthy, and fometimes a fear or
blemilh in the face;_ a hafty revengeful perfon, too fubjea to paffion,
and apt to retain an injury a long time in h_is memory; very hnmourfome
and' difficult to be pleafed., conceited, but generally unfortunate in all.
or moll: of his aaions.
Mars in Libra gives a well proportioned body, fomewhat tall, light
brown hair, oval face, and fanguine complexio·o, a brifk chearful aC..
pea, a lover bf the f~male fex, conceited of his own abilities, inclin-
able to boafi:ing, delights in noble liecreations, loves neatnefs in his ap-
parel, ~nd is generally beloved of women, but often to his prejudice. ·
Mars in Scorpio gives a well-fet middle ftature, black curling hair.
broad face, corpulcn~ body, and· fwarthy comple.Jiion ~ in difpolitioo .a.
No. 1.9• 4 Y · · ver1
Digitized by Coogle
~.
380 A N I L .L U S T R A T I 0 N
very ill-humoured perfon, paffionate, quarrelfome, unfociable, ralh, re-
Yengeful, and ungrateful ; but, notwithfl:anding· his ill-nature, he has
fome good qualities intermixed with them;\ a perfon of quick and rea-
dy apprehenfion, and becomes excellent in any thing his aCtive fancy
leads him to the infpeCtion of.
' .
Mars in Sagittarius gives a tall perfon, with a well proportioned body
neatly compaCted, fanguine complexion, brown hair, oval vitage, quick
eye, a perfon of a large heart, and of a choleric hafty difpofition, yet
a chearful, merry, jovial, companion, active, courageous, loquacious, de-
lights in neatni:fs, and ·loves- to hear himfelf applauded by others, and
is in fine of no contemptible humour or temper. · ·
Mars in Capricorn gives a mean ftature, a lean body, an ill complexion,
and black lank hair, a thin face, little head, but an ingenious perfon, and
of a reafonably good difpofition, a penetrating fancy, and generally very
for'tunate and happy in moft of his undertakings.
Mars in Aquaries defcribes one of a well compofed body, reafonably
corpulent, reddHh or fandy-coloured hair, a moderately clear complexion,
middle fiature, but of a turbulent fpirit, too much addiaed to contro-
verfy, many times to the detriment of body and eftate, if other tefi:i•
monies do not occur.
Mars in Pflces gives a mean ftatured perfon, rather lhort and flelhy
than otherwife, no handfome body npr good complexion, a light brown
·Or fair flaxen hair, a fottilh kind of debauched perfon, very dull and
ftupid, yet a lover of women, a mere di1fembler, an idle companion,
aot a friend to himfelf or others.
If Mars be in conjuntlion, quarti1e, or oppofition of Saturn, or with
the Dragon's tail, and they in angles,· then the native is more fierce and
yioJent i in fiery figns he is choleric and hafty, and many times hath a ..
falling in of the cheeks;· in other figns the face is more full and flelhy;
Mars in earthy figns renders the native of a fullen temper, not courte-
ous or affable; in airy figns, more free and obliging; in watery figns,
fomewhat ftupid and fottith, unlefs he be well beheld of Jupiter, Sol,
or Luna; their friendly afpeas' do fomething meliorate the aforefaid
fignifications, which muft be warily confidered by the ingenious artift
in ~is judgment; as alfo the nature of thofe fixed ftars that are joined
to the patEicul'ar fignificators. · · · · · •
3 . _
pg.RSONS
Digitized by Coogle
-
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 8st-
PERSONS defcri,bed by the MOON in each of the TWELVE SIGNS.·
The Moon in Aries defcribes a perfon of an indifferent ftature or
body, a round face, light brown or _flaxen hair, reafonably corpulent or
fle(hy., and a moderately good complexion ; in difpofition a mutable
perfon, raili and paffionate,. ambitious of honour, and. of an afpiring·
fancy, but rarely fortunate, or at leall: continues' but a fuort time in fuch
a condition.
The Moon 1n T'aurus gives a well compofed body, of a middle ftature,
rather inclinable to brevity, a corpulent ll:rong body, of no clear com-
plexion, brown or black hair ; a perfon of a gentle difpofition and
obliging temper, of fober carriage and deportment, jull: in all Iris ac-
tions, and confequently gains refpect from all perfons he converfes with;
and alfo eafily attains preferment in the world, fuitable to his degree and
quality of birth•.
The Moon in Gemini perfonates a well compofed body, and tatl,
brown hair, good complexion, not fanguine or pale, but between both;
the members well proportioned, and the body very upright and comely;
the difpofition not commendable, but rather offenfive ; an ingenious.
fubtle perfon, ·remarkably crafty, yet generally unfortunate, unlefs other
teftimonies affill:. ·
The Moon in Cancer reprefents a middle ftatured perfon, well pro-
portioned and flefhy, a round full face, brown hair, pale dufk.ilh com-
plexion ; in difpofition flexible, jocular, and pleafant ; often addicted to
good fello":lhip, very harmlefs, and g~n~rally_ w~ll beloved; fortunate
in moft affaus, yet mutable and uncertain 10 h1s refolvcs, but free from
paffion or ralh actions.
The Moon in Leo denotes a perfon fomewhat above a middle ftature•
a well proportioned body, ftrong and, large boned, fanguine comple:xion•
light brown hair, full faced, large eyes ; in difpofition a lofty; proud,
afpiring perfoo, very ambitious of honour, defirous to bear rule over
others, but abhors fervitude or fubjection, and rarely proves a fortunate
perfon.
The Moon in Yirgo lignifies a perfon fomething abov() the middle fta'-
ture, brown or black hair, an oval face, fomething of a ruddy complex-
. ion~ in.difpofition an ingenious perfon, melancholy, very rcferved, co-
vetous, unfortunate,.. and rarely performs any commendable aClion.
Tb•
Digitized by Coogle
.:J"S~ A N I L L U S T R. A·. T l 6 N
Tho Moon in Li!Jra figniliei a well compofed body, neatly compa~..
~. moderately tall of ftature, fmooth light brown hair, and fanguina
complexion mixed with white j the difpofition no lefs pleafant, a very·
Jocund perfon, a lover of mirth an4 recreation, as alfo very well refpetled
of the female fex in general, If a woman, !he will be. admired, or at
leaft courted by many lovers; yet fubjeet t<> misfortunes, unlefs Venus _
be well placed, and in good afpeCt to the ~un, Mo~n, or Jupiter. ·
The Moon in Scorpio reprefents an ill-fafi)ioned perfon,. thick and
1hort, ftelhy, and of a very obfcure complexion, brown or black hai-r,
and in lhort a very ill-difpofed perfon, and ,rarely qualified with any
good humours; fottilh, malicious, and treacherous, uplefs alleviate~
with good education, or the Moon be in fome good afpea: of th_e fortunes ;
If a female, the rarely lives free from fevere cenfure, and not without
defert, except the Moon be befriended by fome benevolent configuration
of good planets.
The Moon in Sagittarius gives ·an handfome well proportioned body,
an oval face, bright brown hair, and.fanguine complexion ; ;1 generous ·
free-fpirited perfon, paffronate for a fuort time, ambitious, aiming at
great things, and ~nerally of an obliging temper, and, confequently
gains r~(pect of fuch perfons as he or !he a1fociates with-
•.
The Moon in Capricorn Lignifies a· perfon of a low ftature, and of. an
ill complexion, a fpare thin body and face, brown or black hair; lome-
times a defeCt or weaknefs in the knees, and at be1\ no ftrong bodied
pcrfon J one of fmall aaivity or ingenuity ; inclinable notwithfland-
ing to debau.chery and mean atlions, which. renders him. a perfon of
but low efteem; yet if the Moon receives the friendly rays of Jupiter,
tbc Sun, or Venus, from good places of the figure, the difpofitioa is
thereby much correaed.
'
The Moon in .Aquaries gives a perfon of a middle ftature, not tall nor
ihort, but ,between both ; the body well proportioned, but rather cor-
pulent, brown hair, and clear fanguine complexion ; an ingenious
perfon, of a very affable courteous difpofition, inoffenfive to all, l~ves.
curious and moderate recreatiWl, apt for invention, which confequently
Jhews an atlive fancy. a l'regnant brain, and is rarely guilty of any un.
worthy action, ·
The
Digitized by Coogle
·p ·p · h. S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
. 'l"he Moon in Pifte-1 defcribes a perfon of a mean or low frature of
body~ eAd the ~OJDple-x:i<;m rather pale than otherwife, the hair a bright ·
brown, -th.e bo.dy pl~mp or fat. a perfon not much delighting in acHoo,
unlefs U1ofe of the wort! kind, and ~nfortunate in moft undertakings.
neither good for himfelf .or others; the difpofition may be fomewha.t
meliorated, provided. the Moon be pofited in a good place of the figure,
and in afpe& with goQd and adjuvant planets, which muft alfo be con-
fider.ed of all the phu1ets in their particular fignifications, efpecially of
the difpofitions and qualities of the mind, throughout all the twelve
figns.
- .
PERSONS reprefented by VENUS in each of the TwELVE SIGNS.
'
Venus in .Aries gives a middle ftature, rather flender than grofs bo-
died, light hair, and ufually {ome marks or fears in the face; a good
complexion, but generally a very unfortunate penfive perfon, neither
lucky to himfelf or to any other he has concerns with; the reafon is·be-
caufe Venus receives her detriment in Aries•
. Venus in Taurus gives a comely perfon, ofmean (bture, a ruddy com~
plexion, but not clear, brown hair, and plump body, not grofs, but de-
cently compofed, a mild-tempered per(on, of a winning difpofition.
fortunate in moft of his aCtions; injurious to none, but rather obliging
to aU, thereby gaining a general refp.c6t from moft pcrfons he eon-
verfc::s with. ·
Venos in Gtmini ufually gives a perfon above a middle ftatore, rcafon-
ably tall, a flender, well-compofed, ftrait, body, brown hair, and -a mo.
derately clear.complexion ; in difpofition a good-humoua;ed loving perfon,
very liberal to fuch as appear fit objects of charity, and is eafily wrought
upon to do good, being a lover of all juft aCtions, and rarely guilty-ofany
thing which is di.fhonourable or unworthy. · , ·
Venus in Canctr generally reprefents a lhort ftature, round face, fick-
ly pale complexion, light colo.ured hair, and a rcafonabJy corpulent bo-
-· dy; in difpofit.ion ·an idle flothful perfon, too much addicted to good
felJowlhip and recreations -of the meaner fort; but· puts the beft fide
outward, and feems to be in earneft when he is not ; m fine, it thews a
very mutable inconftant perfon in moft of his atHons.
Venus in Lto gives a reafonably tall perfon, and the members well
compaCl:ed, clear complexion, round face, full ~ye, fometime freckles
No. 19. +Z in
Digitized-by Coogle
_/
384 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
in the face, light brown or flaxen hair, and many times of a (andy red;
in difpofition not to be difliked, moderately paffionatc;, foon angry, and
quickly pacified; of a generous free difpofition, a little addiC\ed to pride,
but not in the extreme ; often indifpofed in body, but not much pre-
. judiced thereby; a fociable good-humoured perfon in general.
\
Venus in Yirgo gives a tall well-proportioned body, an oval face, fad
brown or black hair, dark complexion, an ingenious perfon, and a good
orator, but fomewhat unfortunate in u1oft of his affairs ; a fubtle active
perfon, of an afpiring' fancy, but rarely attains his de.fires.
Venus in Libra gives an upright tall perfon, a decent-compofed bo-
. dy,- and a conformity in ali the members ; fanguine· complexion, brown
hair, fometimes freckles in the face, 'and dimples in the cheeks ; in dif-
pofition, a perfon of an obliging deportment, and generally well beloved
of moft he has any dealings or converfation with.
- Venus in Scorpio reprefeqts a well-fet body, reafonably corpulent, a
broad face, dufkilh complexion, a~d fad brown or black hair J but in
difpofition a very debauched perfon, too fubjefr to contention and -en-
vy; guilty of many vicious aaions, and this the rather if Venus hap-
pens to be in any ill afpefr with Saturn or Mars.
Venus in Sagittarius gives a· perfon rather tall than otheiwife, of a
moderate clear compl~xion, tending to fanguine, brown hair, oval
vifage, and a very pro·portionable body in general ; in difpofition very
generous, one that aims at no mean or bafe· things ; a commendable
deportment, fomething proud, and a little paffionate ; yet in general of
" good temper, and no way to be difliked, delighting in harmlefs re-
creations ; and, in fine, a very obliging fortunate perfon.
Venus- in Cap;icorn reprefents a mean ftature, rather inclining to
brevity than otherwife ; of a pale fickly complexion, thin faced, dark
hair, tending to black ; in difpofition none of the bell, a general lover
of women ; or, if a woman, a delighter in the co.urtiliip and dalliance
of men ; one that loves pleafur_
e ; not fortunate, but too fubjeH to
. change his ftation, and fuffer fudden cataftrophes in his affairs.
Venus ..in .Aquaries perfonates a handfomc decent compofed body,
reafooably corpulent, clear complexion, and brown hair generally, but
f~nie~imes of~ flaxen colour; in quality and. difpofition exce~ding good
2 and
oigitizedbyGoogle J
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y•
..
and commendable.; a very affable courteous perfon, inclinable. to few
or no vicious aCtions, one that loves civil rC'creation, a peaceable quiet
perfon, obliging to all, fortunate ~n his affairs, and well refpected b.f
his friends arid acquaintance in general.
Venus in Pfftu perfonates a middle·ftatured body, of a m9derate
good complexion, between pale and ruddy, a round face, brown hair
fometi me11 flaxen, with a dimple in the chin, a flefhy plump perfon;
in difp fition, a good-humoured creature, jull: in his aElions, very mild
and peaceable; ingenious, but fomewhat mutable in his refolutions, and
· moderately fortunate in the wo;ld.
PERSONS defcribed by MERCURY in each of the TwELVE SIGNs•
Mercury in Aries gives a body of a mean fiature, fpare and thin, an
oval face, light brown hair, fubjeet to curling; no clear complexion,
a very ill-d1fpofed mind, and much addiCted to theft, and fuch-like un-
worthy aElions.
Mercury in Taurus gives a perfon neither tall nor very ihort of
fiaturc, but a well-fet corpulent body, of a fwarthy fun-burnt com-
plexion, brown hair, ihort and thick ; in difpufition a very flothful
idle perfon, one that loves his eafe and his belly well, and takes pleafure
amongfr women to his own detriment and misfortune.
Mercury in Gemini gives a reafonably tall perfon, an upright fi:rait
body, every way well compofed, brown hair, and good complexion;
in difpofition very ingenious, a good orator, and fometimes becomes a
very cunning lawyer, or a perfon dealing in books, &c. In 1bort, Mer-
cury in Gemini gives a perfon that well underfrands his own interet1,
and is rar Iy overcome by the mot1 fubtle politician, or deluded by the
moft crafty knave that he may have occafion to encounter with; bue
generally out-wits the moft cunning fophifiry, efpecially if Mercury be
no way affiiaed.
Mercury in Cancer perfonates a ]ow or ihort ftature of body, of an
ill compl xion, fad hair, thin face, {harp nofe, and little eyes ; and in
difpofi tion a mere diifembler, a fottilh kind of pot-companion, aod
light nngered ; alfo an ill-natured pe1 fon, unlefs the Moon and Jupiter
be in good afpect with Mercury.
I I •
Mercury
./
Digitized by Gopgle
g86 ~N ILLUSTRATION
Mercury in UfJ gives a perfoo of a pretty large fiature of body, bat
no cl~ar complexion, rather fwarthy or ftm-bucnt, light brown hair,
round face, full eye, and a broad or high note ; in difpofition a hafty
cboleric proud conceited perfon, ambitious .of honou.r; a lloafter, and
too often fubjea to content~on.
Mercury in Pirgo defcribes a tall, fiooder, well-proportioned, perfon,
dark brown or black hair, no -clear comple"ion ; a long vifage, and an
auftere afped; in difpofition and qualities of mind a moft ingenious
perfon, a profound wit, and tearching fancy, capable of attaining divers
languages, befides other rare accomplifuments ; and this in a greater
degree, provided Mercury be free from affliCtion. But it muft be under-
ftood, that every perfon who has Mercury for their fignificator, and
fo pofited, muft not cxpecl fuch qualifications ; for the capacity of birth
p:~rents, and education, muft alfo be confidered, and guide every judi-
- cious artift in his judgment.
Mercury in Libra defcribes a decent ·compofed body, rather tall than
otherwife, light brown fmootn hair, ruddy or fanguinc complexion,
·the body reafonably corpulent; in difpofition a very juft and virtuous
perfon, prudent, a lover and promoter of learning. In 1hort, a perfon
moft happily qualified with both natural and acquired accomplifu..
ments.
Mercury in Scorpio gives a perfon of a mean ftature, well fet, broad
1houlders, fwarthy complexion, fad brown hair curling, with an ilJ-
compofed body ; fuch a perfon is very fubtle, a )over of the female {ex,
inclinable to company, and does many aas of good fe1Jow£hip, inge-
nious, and ftudio~s for the promotion of his own intereft.
Mercury in Sagittarius perfonates a tall fi:ature, a well-thaped body,
not corpulent, but rather large-boned and fpare, an oval face, brown
hair, ruddy complexion, and large nofe i for qualities and conditions,
paffionate, but foon appeafed i too rath in his atl:ions, which many times
occafion his own detriment ; but good-conditioned in general, and de-
.lights in noble things, yet rarely attains his ends. _
Mercury in Capricorn fignifies a perfon of mean fi:ature, thin face,
brown hair, and du1ki£h complexion, fometimes bow-legged, or fome
~efcct in thofe members; in difpofition peevifu, difcontented, and un-
fortunate, without other teftimonies concur; in fine, an impotent de-
jected perfon.
Mercury
•
Digitized by Coogle
·,. '0 ·F ·· A S T 1l 0 L 0 G Y•
. Mercury in .Atjuari'n denotes a perfon of an indiff"c:rent ll:ature of' body,
reafonahly corpulent and fieihy, a good clear complexion, brown hair, _
full face; in difpofiti.on an ing~nious obliging.perfon, inclinable to the
ftudy of acu and {cience&, of a pregnant wit', aod apt to find out JPany
curious inventions.
- Mercury in Pfftu ·gives a perfon of a low tl:ature, brown hair, thirt
face, of a pale or fickly complexion~ generally very hairy upon the
body; in difpofition a repining difconfolate perfon, yet a Ioyer of wo-
men, and addicted to drinking; and·.Confequently the greatet.l: enemy to
himfelf.
'
PERSON~ de{cribed by .thc.SUN .in each of the TWELVE SIGNS.
The Sun pofited in Ar~er, which is accounted his exaltation, defcrib~
a perfon of.a Teafonable. ftature of ·body, fl:rong and well compofed, a
good cc;)mplexion, though not very clear, light hair, flaxen, 0{ yellowith,
·a noble ·fpirit, very courageous and .valiant, delights in all warlike a<1-
tions, gains victory and .hono\lr thereby, appears a terror to his enemies,
an4 m_
akes hhnfelf fam.ous .in his generation, fometimes even beyond
his c~paci~y of birth. ' ·... . . . .
.
The Sun in· '1aurui ret>refents a: thort ·well-fet perfon·
, with br-owa.
hair, n~ very comely, a dark comp'texion, wide mouth, great nofe~
broad face, a good confident bold perfon, fufficiently ftrong, and not a
little pro\Jd, delightiog much in oppo~ng ~thers, and generally be~omea
·crurqueror.! · · ·. ·· · · · · ·
: ( I • ' • ~ 1 • •
The :~un · in Gemini repre(ents a -weil-proportioried body, of fangtiino
comp1exjoh, :above the middle ftature, brown hair, a perfon of a good
difpofition, affable and courteous to all, not very fortunate in any af- .
fairs, fubjef.l to the checks and controulment of others, and patiently
patfes over flig~t ~bufes, .whic~ !hews. him to be. a •very mi~d-temp.cred
·_perfun. '· · · · · · · , · 1 ·
: ; # . I : I • ., .
. . • . . • . . I
The Sttn in Cancer perfonates ot repre(enti a mean ftature,' of an ill
·complexi~, ·With fomc deformity ·in the face, ·very -
unhealthy afpeCt,
brown hair, and an -ill.;.propb_rtioned body, but .very harmlefs anq inno-
cent; chearful/arld -a lover of· the females; alfo an admirer of mlific,
dancing, and fu~h ~~\n~ of r~cre~~i~:ms ~ _
but .care.s not t~. follow ~n~. em·
ploymeilt,-to·all k:1nds·of which ·he appears undtfpoied and averfe: . 1 .
. NO. :19. · ··, s A. . .. . ' ·. ... 1Thc
Digitized b; Coogle
,I
'•
38~ A N ·t L L U S T R A T ·I 0 N
The Sun in L~D gives a llrong well-proportioned perfon, of a \'ery Cart•
guine comp1exi<?n, Jigh~ brown or yellowiih hair, full face, and large
eyes, fometimes a mark or fear in the face, a very honeft perfon, faith-
ful to his friends, punctual in the performance of his promife, yet de.
lights to ta-ke his pleafure, is ambitious of honour, whether in war or ·
oth~rwife; and ufually promotes all things in order thereto. .
j
: The Sun in rlrgo gives a perfoQ fomewhat above .!the middle ftature,
a well-proportioned body, not·corpulent, but rather flender; good com~
p1exion; the hair brown, and much of it; in difpofition an ingenio·us
(:bcarful perton, enjoying all dece01 recreations, particularly tbofe which
delight the ~ar and the palate.
The Sun in Libra gives an upright ftraight· bOdy, an oval face, aDd
rudJy chearfut complexion, light hair, full eye&, and fometim~s pimples
in the face. The Sun in Libra fignifies a very unfortunate perfon in all
or moft of his aCtions, efpecially in warlike aifairs; for .ther~in he is fur~
to c~me otf with di1honour, if he efcapes other dangers, unlefs his figni-
licator. be befriended by fome potent. benignant planet. . _
T~e Sun in s~orpi~ give~ a fquare body, full face! cloudy co~ple:r:ion.
· fun-burnt, brown hau, a very plump fieiliy body an general; m d•fpo-
.lition an ingenious perfon, but of a rugged nature; .ambitious ofhonour;
pne that would not wiiJingly admit of an. equal.; fortWlate upon the
fcas or in the pra8ice of phyfic•.
The Sun in Sagittarius gives a tall, well-proportioned, comety. perfon,
with an oval vifage, fanguine complexion, and light brown hair; for
quaHties and difpofition, a very lofty proud -fpi~ited pcr(on, aim.ing at
Jgreat things, and too fevere in the excrcife of his power ; yet folljle ho-
nourable exploits are performed by him, which add .much to. his com-
mendation, and render him confpicuo~s~ .
' ·'
. .
The Sun in Capricor!J ufually reprefcnts a mean ftature, a:fick~y com-
plexion, brown hair not curling, an oval face, a fpare thin body, not·
decently compofed,. but rather a difproportion in the meml?~s thereof;
in difpofition very juft in his adions, thereby gaining love and friend..
-'hip; fometimes paffionate, a favour.er of tbe .female .fex-. anq;~ g~~c~
a good-humoured perfon to;tbof~ he aath eon'!erfat~qn w®·· i .
Tho Sun fn .A'J~aries defcribes aperfon of ~. ~i_ddle. fl~t\lre,- .il corpu~
leDl eody,· dcct!ntly compofed, a round full face, Jjgbt brow~ hair, ·and
3 . generally
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S ·T R. 0 L 0 0 T. ·
generally a cl~r complexion J the difpofition moderately good, but feb-
jed: to oftentation, and defirous to bear rule, but free from malicious
aCtions againft any one•
..
The Sun in Piftes gives a perfon rather thort of ftature ; a round face,
and an indifferent good complexion ; light brown hair, fometimes flaxen,
a reafonably plump or corpulent body; a general lover of the female
fex, and of all kinds of pleafure ; addiRs himfelf to gaming and feall:ing_
many times to his own detriment ; yet a perfon very harmlefs to others>
and one who injures none but himfelf, which he often does by too much
e:xtravagance and prodigality.
Brief OBSERVATIONS in drawing a Defcription from the PLANET ·£
· that is LORD of the ASCENDANT. T
I. If no planet be in afpeR with the lord of the afcendant, then judge
of the native by the lord of the afcendant wholly, without any regard
to the fign in which he is pofited.
II. If the lord of the afcendant be retrograde, or in his fall or detri-
ment, then defcribe the native with due reference to the nature of that
lign in which he is fo pofited.
III. If the lord of the afcendant behold the afcendant at the time of
birth, then judge of the native by the quality of the fign upon the cufp
of the afcendant.
- IV. If two planets happen to be in afpeCt with the afcendant, take
your judgment from him who is mofr perfeCt in partile, and pofited in
his own houfe, rather than from him who is in his exaltation.-Thefe
.obfervations are to be confidered as well in regard to the difpofition and
qualities of the mind as in the defcription at;ld formation of the body.
The
·. Digitized-by Goog e
~
J9& A N I ·L L U S _.,. it A.1 I 0 N
The A R T ·ol C A L C U L A T I N G N A T I V I T I E S
made PLAIN and EASY.
AN ATIVITY, or Genitu~e, is the very moment of birth, or precife
time of the child's eoming into the world, and in which ·he is
made a vifible member of the creation. In this moment it is that the
11:ars begin to atl: and operate their influence upon the new-born infant,.
by the power or intervention of thofe angels who rule and govern the
confiellations then level with the hotizon," or that afc~nd upon the ho•
rofcope, according to that faying of St. Jerome, .in his comment upon·
the eighteenth chapter of St. Matthew, where he fays, Great is tht dig-
nity of.fouls, for roery one at their firfi coming into .the world have an an-
gel appointedfor their c'!flody and foftty. And, as it is from thefc confi-
g..urations that we arc enabled ·to point out the incidents of the native's
future life, .fo is it abfolutely ·neceffary.l~at the very infiant of birth
thould be well and minutely afcertaine~, in order to arriv.
e at correctnefs
and certainty in thefe (peculations. It mull: be obvious to every one
that the -celeftial ·bodios ·are in perpetual motion, and therefore every
quarter of an . hour mqft confiderably vary their pofition; as does alfo
different parallels from any one given poipt of the heavens;· and hence
it is that . the latitude, as well as the true time of birth, becomes fo
aofolu.tely. ·nece.tfc~ry in·calculating or bringing up the direelions of. a
nativity. . _ · . -
. .
By ~nowing the place of birth, the latitude is eafily afcertained ;
but tO determine ·the 'precife time of a native's emerging from the WOmb
is a circumiance that has been always· found difficult and precarious '
not only on account .of the inattention of nurfes and midwives to thia
moll:· interefiing event, but alfo by reafon of the difference and uacer-
tainty of almoft all clocks, watches, and dials, in· refere~ce . to the
Sun. Wherefore the ancient profeffors. of this art, to remove the
errors in the cornmon or eftimate time of birth, have contrived ·fe- .
veral ways of rectifying a nativity; and have given fuch rules for this
purpofe, that the true time of birth may be thereby correctly afcertain..
ed. This rectification may be effected three different ways ; firft, by
the Tr11tina• Hermetis, or Trutine of Hermes; fecondly, by the Ani-
moder of Ptolomy; and,· thirdly, by the natural accidents ifthe native.
Thefe three methods I iliall explain fully, when I come to treat of the
rectih.cations of nativities; futlice it here to fay, that t4e method moftly
in .ufe, and which is found liable to the le~ft error, particularly i!l the
/ • p~~
I
Digitized b~Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
geniturei of grown· perfons, i.s that .'of rea~fying by fuch accidents as
might have befallen them dunng the1r paftl1fe.
As the doarine of nativities is the very effence of Aftrology, and the
principal criterion by which mankind will judge of the utility and rea-
fonablenefs· of the fcience, it will be requifite for me in this place to be
as plain and circumftantial as poffible. It cannot be unentertaining, nor
wholly ufelefs, even to a common reader, mqoh lefs to tbofe who mean to
ftudy the heart, to know the true grounds upon which this part of the
fcience is founded ; together with thofe afpecb or configurations at
birth, from which our predictions are framed ; and the time alfo when
their influence and effeas will vifibly operate upon the body or affairs
of the native. In elucidating this fubjett, I ihall be principally guided
_ by the ~adripartite of the great Ptolomy ; the truth and excellency
of wbofc doctrine the experience of many ages, and the obfervations of
the mofi: intelligent profeffors of this art, have fully eftablilhed and
confirmed.
'
lt is manifeft to the mofi: fuperfjcial obfcrver, that a certain fecret
power is diffufed through all things that are near the earth, according·
to the nature and properties of the firmament, and circumambient
air, and to the power and influence of the luminaries and other ce-
lefiial bodies. The Sun being the {uperior Luminary and the foun-
tain of life, governs all things that bear relation to the earth, not only
by varying the feafons, and bringing to perfeCtion the feeds of animals,
and the fruitfulnefs of plants, the flowing 'of waters and the mutation
of bodies, but alfo the changes of the day, of heat ~nd moifture, of
drincfs and CQld, as it hath . refpeCl to the meridian, or mid-beaven.-
The Moon ~lfo, being ncareft to the earth, diftils down an amazing in-
fluence, by which things animate and inanimate are affected and changed.
Rivers arc augmented and dimini£hed according to her light; the tides
vary as fue rifes and fets; plants and animals, in whole or in part, ic-
.- creafe and decreafe with her. In the fame manner the fiars, fixed and
erratic, as they keep on their uniform courfe, caufc many appearances
around us, for they produce cold and heat, and wind and rain, by
which alfo things on earth arc fuitably governed; and their mutual con-
figarationa...as..their influences co-operate with or oppofe one another,
produce variations accordingly. .
The power of the Sun is on all hands admitted to be moft prtvalmt,
as it is obvioufiy mofi: univcrf~l. The other· heavenly bodies, according
No. 20. 5 B to
Digitized by Coogle
._;
392 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
to the variety of their afpects with the S~n, unite with, or refill, his·in-
fluence, agreeable to the nature and force of fuch afpects. This hap-
pens moft frequently, and moll: forcibly, with the Moon, at all the
changes. But thefe affections in the fiars operate more oQfcurely, and
employ longer time, according to their declination, or as they appear or
difappear in our horizon. Hence then, by the rules of nature, _
and the
tefiimony of our own reafon and experience, it mufi be admitted, that
of all the planets, the influ«Jnce of the Sun is the moft powerful; and
that the influence of the other planets have moft energy, when the
beams ·of the Sun co-operate with them. The Moon likewife, by rea-
Con of her {wiftnefs, and proximity to the earth, modifies and conveys
thefe influences to fublunary bodies, with a force fuperior to all the
other ftars. And thefe influences are always moft powerful, and moll:
vifible in their effeCts, when this mediation of the Moon is exercifed in
cohveying the influences of the ftars to the Sun, or of tbe Sun to the
other ftars, and thence to the earth. But, in defining thefe varying pro.
perties and effects, particular regard muft be had to the latitude, decli-
nation, riling, and fetting, of the ftars, both fixed and erratic, efpecially
thofe which approach neareft to the ecliptic.
Whoever contemplates thefe premifes, and attentively obferves the
afpefrs, will find that not only conjoined bodies are fnbject to the confi-
gurations of the ftars, but alfo the buddings and perfection of feeds arc
framed and formed according to the quality with which the heavenly
matter and circumambient air is endued. The obfervant hutbandman
and lhepherd preconjecture the proper feafons for feed-Cowing, planting,
and procreation of animals, by confulting the ftate of the winds and
the face of the fky. The fkilful mariner likewife prepares againft the
dangers of an approaching ftorm by fimilar obfervations ; but they are
frequently deceived for want of better experience, and an adequate know-
ledge of the .courfes and effeCl:s of the heavenly bodies, which, when ex-
acHy underftood, conduce to an almoft certain prefcience herein. For
it is found, that he who correCtly knows the motions of the ftars, and
their configurations with the Sun and Moon, and is not ignorant of the
times, nor the place, nor the afpecti, and is well lkilled in the fimple
ways of nature, can admirably foretel, in any feafon, the proper ftate
and temperature of the air; as that it will be hotter an"g:ai0''J or colder dlj.vt
or drier, according to the nature and properties of t e refpective rays
of the ftars and Moon configurated with t~e Sun. And, as tbefe fpecula-
.tions are founded upon the moft· umple principles of nature, as that the
Sun is hot and dry, and the Moon is cold and moift, and the obferva-
tiona
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 893
tiona deduced herefrom are feldom known to vary ; fo, by fimilar qua-
lities and obfervations, and by rules equally well founded, we obtain a
legal and an extenfive prefcience refpeRing man. For; from the natural
ftate of the ambie.nt and heavenly matte-
r at the time of: the conftruction
of the body, it is eafy to know in general, the quality and temparature of
each perfon born ; that fuch 1hall be the formation of his body, and
fuch the difpofition of his mind, and fuch the future events, advantage-
ous or difadvantageous, of his life, according to the ftate of the heavens
at that particular time, whether qualified for the production of fuch a
temper, or whether inimical to it. Thus, a prefage is not only poffible
by the laws of nature, but proper and nece1fary to the wifdom and well-
being of focieqr.
The errors of thofe who do not underftand the fundamental princi·
ples of this learning have doubtlefs afforded ftrong and plaufible reafons
to the bulk of mankind for difcarding it altogether, and for confidering
thofe events which others have more fuccefsfully afcertained, to be the
effeCts of mere chance. But furely a doHrine is not to be rejected, be•
caufe fome of its followers are vicious or ignorant. In this !peculation,
above all others, reafonable allowances £hould be made, as well for the
weaknefs of human comprehenfion, as for the great and undefinable ex-
tent of the contemplation. Much depends upon the ability of the phy-
fician, in modifying and proportioning his prefcription, no~ only to cor-
refpond with the ftate of the difeafe, but alfo with the temperature and
conftitution of the patient. In the fubject under confideration, a judg-
ment no lefs fagacious is abfolutely nece1fc1ry; becaufc:: the quality of the
heavenly matter is often conjectural, and the mixtures of different af..
pects and influences are fometimes fo_complicated, that the brighteft
underftanding can fcarcely arrange them with precifion. ·
But the confideration of Nativities, in points which relate to the par-
ticular temper and difpofition of refpective perfons, hath other caufes-
in nature too apt to be forgotten, or perhaps lightly paffed over as cir-
cumftances of no moment. But it is undeniably true, and muft be ad-
mitted on all hands, that the place of birth will often make confldera-
ble difference in thofe who are born ; and though the feed be the fame
fr.:>m which they are procreated, and though the conftitution of the
heavens be the fame, yet the diverfities ·of countries wherein they· arc
born will naturally produce a difference in their bodies and minds. Be-
fides this, a different education and cuftom will form a different difpo-
fition and manner of life; as does alfo the different fituation or cla1fes
1 m
Digitized by Coogle
39+ AN ILLUSTRATION
in which mankind are brought up, .and to which they are accuftomed.
Therefore he who does not attentively confider each of thefe diftinEHons,
and un~te them judicioufiy with the caufes produced by the ambient and
heavenly matter, will meet with great uncertainty in his concJufJons.
For, although the power of heaven is confeffedly the grearefi, and with
thefe all the others are conceived as adjuvant caufes, yet they do not al-
ways aifume the circumambient matter as a concaufe ; confequently
thofe who attempt to predict from the motion of the heavenly bodies
alone, without-due reference tO' thefe confiderations, will entail contempt
upon themfelves, and difgrace upon the fcience.
But that afirological preditlions are poffible, and to be defined with
great precifion, when properly managed, is an atfertion moll: true,
and which, I flatter myfelf, I have already made manifdl. It remains,
therefore, that we fpeak of the advantages of this benevolent difpenfa-
tion of Providence; for, if a foreknowledge be advantageous or necef..
fary to the fafety and future happinefs of the foul, what can be more fo in
refpeel of the body, fince it affords not only temporal .delight, happinefs,
and pJeafure, but ~nables us to underftand things both divine and hu-
man? Whatever happens in the courfe of nature, either neceffarily, or
accidentally that materially affeds our profperity or adverfity, and either
prolongs life or defiroys it, if they happen fuddenly -and unexpectedly,
confound with fear, or tranfport with joy; but, if they are foreknown,
they fortify the mind by fuch foreknowledge, and prepare it for fufl:ain-
ing the heft or worfi occurrences with ca1mnefs and ferenity. In what
rctpect therefore is man fuperior to the irrational part of the creation, if he
cannot bear to know the hour of his diffolution ? The terms of our ex-
ifience, as every day's experience repeatedly thews, are that we muft
fuffer death. Where then, to minds fraught with reafon and integrity,
can be the horror, the diffrefs, or calamity, of knowing the time when
that certain event ihall take place? To men of a virtuous habit, {uch
a knowledge muft be invaluable ; and to thofe of lefs fcrupulous prin-
ciples, it cannot be unwelcome, provided reafon or philofophy make up
any part of their coptliturion. To men of the moll: exemplary conduct,
it affords fit opportunity of adjufiing their temporal concerns, and re-
lieves them under the diftreifes and afflictions of this life, by afcertain-
ing the period of their fu1ferings, and by giving them hopes of retribu.. -
tion and reward in that which will fucceed. To the inconfiderate and
, worldly minded, it not only gives the fame advantages, but begets in
them a proper fenfe ofthe more important concerns of that endlets ftate
of exiftence, " from whence no traveller returns." For thefe grand
purpofea
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. "395
pU1"pofes c:biely, the all-wife and benevolent hand of .Provideece -feemt
to baYe pointed out to mankind the Art of Prefcience and PrediRion J
not to fay any thing of the innumerable lefs important concerns of bu..
man affairs, which may oftentimes afford fingular advantage and happi-
nefs to individuals, as well as to ftates and focieties, by being thus time·
ly forewarned of what thall hereafter come to pafs. And furely I need
not mention a ftronger inftance of the advantages of prefcience, tban
wh:at will naturally arife from the obfervation of every man of experience
when he looks back upon the occurrences of his paft life, and recolleCts
but half the lotfes and inconveniences he has fuftained, only for want of
that foreknowledge in worldly aff'airs which the art of prediction fupplics.
.. We are not however to believe, that the accidents and events of life -:rr
fo befal men, as though a law were fet over them by fomc inditfolublc
eaufe from above, by which they are of neceffity brought to pafs, no
other caufe being able to oppofe or prevent them. It were unphilofo.
phical and abfurd thus to imagine ; for the motion of the heavenly bo..
diet is immutable by divine Jaw, and the mutation of earthly thiags is
clifpofed of and revealtd by a natural ,generation and order, which the fu"
perior caufe follows by accident. It is alfo to be obferved, that many
things happen to man, not only by reafon of the natural and proper qua..
lity of the heavenly matter, but alfo by the operation of fome more uni-
verfal caufes; as by great mutations and mixtures of the elements, plagues
and pefiilences, and floods and con.ftagrations, are produced, by which
multitudes are at once {wept away, and perith under one common fata-
lity. Thus greater caufes always overcome the lefs, and the ftron~r
the weaker; and, whenever the ftronger power.prevails in any grea~ mu-
tation, the more general eff'etl:s we have been fpeakiog of happcn.--
Other things likewife happen to individuals; becaufe the natural proper-
ty of each is overcome by the contrariety of the circumambient matter,
whether the antipathy thereof be fmall or fortuitous. Now, this being
admitted, it becomes apparent that of thofe things which happen gene-
rally and particularly, be the accident whatever it may, whofe firft
caufe is ftrong and irrefiftable, and no other caufe having power to with-
ftand it, come to pafs wholly by neceffity. But thofe accidents
which have a weaker caufe are overthrown, if any other caufe, able to
withftand it, is found ; and, if fuch a refilling caufe appears not, then
thofe accidents happen agreeable to the nature and impulfe of their firft
caufe; and they are produced, not through the fi:rength of the caufe, nor
by 'Deceffity, but becaufe the antipathy by which it might have been
defiroyed is neither known nor · to be defined. Thus it happens to
all things ·that have a natural caufe and beginning, as metals, ftones,
No. 20. 5 C plants,
Digitized by Coogle
.396 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N.
plants, animals, wounds, ficknefs, affecHons, &c. fome of which work
nece1farily, and others not, except when fomething is found of fuffici-
ent frrength to oppofe their efficient power. Hence it is demonftrable,
that, though fimple caufes have natural properties peculiar to themfelves,
yet there are other caufes equally fimple, which·opcratc in contad with ·
thofe of the former, and by which the bare fimple nature of each is
changed by mutation into a third quality which differs in nature from
either of -the former; according to which fuch fimple natural proper~
ties are either partly or wholly changed, or otherwife frufi:rated or ai"':'
verted. As for example, in the weather, the Sun, in his own- fimple
nature, is the fountain of light and heat; but, being joined with Saturn~
never fails, if not prevented by fome other apparent caufe, both in win-
ter and fummer, to produce cold and cloudy weather. But, ifMars·hap-
pcns to be joined in configuration with them, the cafe is . altered, and,
infi:ead of cold, the weather will not fail, in fummer, to be hot and ful-
try, though at the fame time cloudy, corrufcuous, and diforderJy; and,
in winter, remarkably clofe and warm, though lowering and turbulent;
more efpecially if attended with a new or full Moon. Thefe are facts
founded upon a rational hypothefis, and proved by long experience and
conftant obfervation.
Thefe preliminaries being laid down, and confidered as the ground-
work of Aftrology, it fo1lows that thofe, who would wi£h to be proficient
in it, lhould learn topredid futurities after a natural way, by fuch prefd-
ence as nature .has pointed out, and not by an inconfiderate or vain opi-
nion that this fhall happen, becaufe it hath many great and efficient
caufes which it is impoffible to refift; or that this lhall not happen,
becaufe it.hath refifting affections. Calculators of nativities, therefore,
when th6y fpeak of thofe things which may come to pafs, can do it·in
no other way, conformable to truth and nature, but by the power and
effeHs of the circumambient matter or afpeas, which, being more or
lefs incJined to fuch a temperature, will produce fuch an accident, fta-
ture of body, or difpofition of mind. As when a phyfician a1ferts that
an ulcer will eat away or putrefy, or a naturalift that the loadftone will
atrraft iron ; not becaufe it is neceffary that the ulcer 1bould eat away
or. putrefy, or the loadfione attract; but, if the contraries are not known
nor their effeCts prevented, thefe circumfta.nces will alfure~ly _
happen,
according to the caufe and confequences of things, as they have been
from the beginning of the world. Thus it happens~ and thus we ought
to jooge, in the.calculation of nativities; for thofc events which per-
petually fall in upon all human affairs, are produced according to the
1~-ceffion of natur~l order, either becaufe things that may oppofe and
prevent
oigi~ized by Coogle
OF ASTROLOGY.• 397
prevent- are not found, or bccaufe they arc not··known. And again,
events known naturally, and according to order, and thofe things being
found which difagree and oppofe, they are then either wholly prevented.
or elfe come to pafs with very fmall effeCt, and are fcarcely vifible in
their operation.
· Now,·feeing there is both in generals and particulars fuch a confe.
quence, it is curious to remark, that -though many people believe in ·
generals, and allow it is poffible to prognofticate upon that' fyftem, and
alfo think it advantageous towards prefervation and health; yet in par-
ticulars tney will not allow the fame operations to have any force. For
many confefs they know the proper feafons, and the fignification of the
fixed fi:ars, and the afpecb of the Moon, and they obferve them for the
eftabli£hment of their health, and to reduce their conftitutions to a good
and regular temperature, in fummer by cooling medicaments, and in
winter by beating. They alfo obferve the fignifications of the fixed
ftars, for the purpofes of navigation; and they plant, and fow, and for-
ward vegetation, by obferving the different afpects of the Moon; and
no one fuppofes thefe general effeas either impoffible "Or ufelefs. But
in particulars, as of cold or heat, which increafe and decreafe in their
proper temper, and by the properties and mixtures of other matter, they
neither believe it poffible to foretel, or conceive that we may be pre-
ferved from, the confequences attending them. But the caufe of this
opinion, is the difficulty of knowing particulars, and the management
of them, with precifion and truth ; and becaufe men are feldom found of
fo penetrating a comprehenfion, that none of the contraries be hidden
from their view ; hence, the oppofing power of influence for the moft
part not being joined with a foreknowledge in the effe:t. produced by firft
caufes without impediment, they judge of things fimply, as though
immutable and impoffible to be prevented. But as in the art of predic-
tion its poffibility appears worthy of confideration, although it is not
altogether infallible, this prefervative part is certainly worthy of parti.
cular regard, fince it may bring relief to many, though not a perfect cure
toaJI. For this reafon the Egyptians, finding the efficacy of this art,
every when~ joined phyfic to prognoftic aftronomy; and hence it is ap·
parent, tha•, if they had thought futurities could not be removed or di-
verted, they would never have prefcribcd certain remedies and perfcrva.
tives againtl the effcel: of the ambient, prefent or to come, whether in
general or particular cafes ; they therefore fought out a method at once
advantageous and profitable, that by aftrology the quality of the fubja-
cent tempe~aments, and the accidents which come to pafs by the influ-
ence of the heavenly bodies, might be difcovered and known; but
J the
•
Digitized by Coogle
. 8
-39
•
AN IL. ~USTRATION
the -medic-al art, to difi:IngnHh the 6mpatbies and antipathies of each.
and to underftand the natural cure of prefent difeafes, and the true
mode of prefervation from future. For without this fpecits of aftro-
nomic knowledge the medical art is found in many cafes to fdi) ; though
.J am ready to allo~ that there are not remedies to be found for aU bodies
and difeafes.
Thefe obfervations become clear and obvious, from a confideration
of the planets and their afpech. The Sun is found by nature to caufe
heat and drinefs in a moderate degree. His power and influence is moft
vifible to our fenfes, by reafon of his magnitude, and the manifeft mu-
tation of the feafons; fer, by how much the nearer he approaches to
our vertical point, by fo much tile more he flirs up heat in us, and
fubjetts us to his nature. But the nature of the Moon is chiefly ~oHl­
ening; for, being nearer the earth, the exhales the Yapours of all moift
bodies, and thus evidently affeCts ,all moifi: things, and putrefies them;
but, becaufe of her analogy with the Sun, fue moderately participates of
heat. The planet Saturn cools and dries, becaufe he is far diftant from
the heat of the Sun and vapours of the earth ; but he cools moft abun..
dantly, and dries mofi: moderately. The other planets alfo receive
virtue according to the configurations they make with the Sun and
Moon. Mars ddeth much, and burns, becaufe of his hot and fiery na-
ture·; but the infiuence of Jupiter is temperate, becaufe he moves be-
tween the coldnefs of Saturn and the heat of Mars. Venus hath nearly
the fame temperature, but in a different meafure, becaufe of her vicini-..
ty to the Sun ; fue moifi:ens moft, as does the Moon, through the great~
nefs of their light, by which they a1fume the moifture of the vapours of
the earth. Mercury fometimes dries, and fometimes moiftens, according
•to his pofition and configuration with other fi:ars. Hence arife the four
principal humours, from whence all bodies are engendered. Two of
them are generative and at1ive, the hot, and the moift; for by thefe are
all things joined together, and increafed; and two are corruptive and
hurtful; the dry, and the cold; for by thefe all things are dHfolved,
and deftroyed. Wherefore two of the planets, viz. Jupiter and Venus, are
defined to be benefics, becaufe of their -benevolent temperature, and
becaufe heat and moifture equally abounds in them; and likewife the
Moon, for the fame reafons. But Saturn and Mars, being of an oppo-
fite nature, are defined to be of a malevolent and deftruetive influence, by
reafon of the extreme cold of the one, and the violent heat of the other.
But the Sun and Mercury, being of a controvertible nature, are found to
produce both thefe influences, according to the nature, force, and quality,
of the afpeets or configurations they make with other bodies.
As
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T ll 0 L 0 G Y. 399
As there are fo.ur diftiacft llumours or qualities incident to the }'lancte.
(o are there two primary foxes )ly which they are diftinguHhed, namely,
the mafculine and the feminine. The feminine plantts partake .prin•
cipally of moifture J thmfore the Moon and Venus are termed feminine,
b~aufe moifture thiefiy abounds In them. But Saturn, Jupiter. Mars,
and the Sun, are mafcaline• becaufe t~y heat and dry with the greater
energy. Mercury, in point of feM; is eoruidered indiff'ertntly, becaufc
he equally dries or moiftena as cx:cafion may be. · The fblrs ue likewifo
con6dered, as to fe1r• according ~o thtir pofitlon with the Sun. When
they ate oriental. and going before the ~"n• they become mafculine J
hut, when they are occidental, and foHcw the Sun. they are feminine.
The tWo apparent diftincft:iooa of time, called da.y and night• are alfo
divided into ftKei~o The day, becluf4 of its heat an4 aetivh,y1 is termed
mafculine ; and the night. becaufe of its moifture, and: cohveniency for
rei. feminine ; therefore the Moon and Venue arc nQC\urnal• .
and tho
Sun and Jupiter ciiurnal, but Mercury is in this refpea alfo indiff'eront.
diurnal when in iln eriental fituatioo~ and n<durQal when occidental,
But the two malevolent planets, Saturn and Mars, arc confidered diar..
nal and nocturnal, not according to their quality and nature, ·as heat to
heat. but· contrary; for a good temperament, taking ita like, meketh
the good greater J and unlike, mixed with evil, deftroys much 4>f ·that
eYil J therefore Saturn, 111 cold, is joined to the heat of the day 1 and
Mats, Ill dry, to the moifture of the night. So each ofthem, becoming
moderate in their infiuences, will appear confonint to the cenditiona
which give the tetnperameht. It is alfo to be remarked, that a planet it
1/it~rttal, when in a diurnal nativity above the earth ·and in a nOC\urnal
nAtivity under the earth; but 11oflttr11lll, when in a noCturnal nativity above
the earth or in a diutnal nativity under the earth,
Now ·the influences and effeas of the planets have fmaller or greater
lorc4, according to their afpeth and configuration with the Sun ; for
the Moon along her increatl:, from her firft appearance to the firfi:
quatter, is moiftening J frotn the firfi: quarter to her full, 1he warms ;
frnm the full to the laft quarter, file dries ; and, from the JaR: quar-
tet till 1he is hid, fhe is cold. The planets matutinc to the firft fta-
tion are more lhoift J . from tht: firft ftation till they rife at night,
they are more heating J frob) their rifing at night to the fecond ftation1
they dry more J and, from the fecond ftation, they cool more. The firft
ftation is when a planet begins to be retrograde J and the fecood ftation
when from retrogradation it becomes direct ; and they begin to rife at'
night when itl oppofition to the • Sun. Thus the power of thefc va-
rious
'-.' • ne rifing and fetting o( the fiars are thrce(Q}d ; cofmicaJ, achronicaJ, and heliacaJ.--
Cofmical rifing is, when a ftar or planet afcends the horizon with the faille degree and mi·
No. ao. sD nwc
Digitized by Coogle~
<{oo A N I L L lJ S T R A T I 0 N
rious affeaionB, being ·mixed among themfelves, produces many ditTe-
rences of quality in the circumambient matter which continually fur-
rounds us ; the proper and diftinct power of which, alternately prevail-
ing, is changed more or lefs by the force of other configurations. To
thefe effects, the operation of the fixed ftars in general contaibute not a
little. Thofe of the greateft magnitude are the moft powerful and ef-
ficacious ; and thofe in or near the ecliptic have more energy than thofc
remote from it. The bright ftars have more influence than the dull
and languid ; thofe of a red colour partake of the quality of Mars ;
thofe of a lead colour operate with fimilar effect to Saturn ; and fo of
the others, according to their affinity with the planets, as hath been al-
ready explained. Stars ·which have northern latitude and declinatioQ.
affect us moft ; and with South Latitude, the more fouthern. Thofc
fituated in the zenith influence more than thofe which are more re..
-mote ; and fuch as are in partile conjunction or antifcion of any planet.
or which rife or fet, or culminate, with any planet, have a more than
ordinary power and influence : but of ~themfelves the fixed ftars emit no
rays. '
.'.
. The four angles of the.horofcope, or cardinal houfes of heaven, froJU.
whence the general winds take their rife, muft likewife be confidered.
The oriental angle is pofi"effed of great drinefs; for, when the Sun ar-
rives there, thofe things which were moiftened by the night begin .to dry J
and the winds which blow from thence, commonly called eaft,.winds, arc
very dryiBg, and without moifture. The angle of the fouth is moll: hot,
becaufe the Sun, being there culminate, burns and heats with greater
energy, becaufc our mid-heaven declines to the fouth ; wherefore tho
winds proceeding from thence, commonly called fouth-winds, arc hot
and filling. But the occidental angle is moift, becaufe, when the Sun
arrives tber.e, thofe things which were dried .in the d~y begin to be
moiftened J confequently the winds blowing from thence, commoply
called weft-winds, are free from thickncfs or moifture. The northern
angle or point, lying towards the Bears, is moll: cold, becaufe the culmi-
nating Sun, in refpect to that part of the earth which we inhabit, declines
mo~ from it ; for which reafon, the .winds blowing from that quarter
~fe generally cold and freezing•. ~he ~erfect k~owledge of t.hefe things
ja very necefi"ary to enable us to-d1ftmgudh the mtxture of particulars; for
it
nute of the ediptic in which the Sun is ; and cofmical fetting is. when a ftar or planet fets exaaly
·when the Sun rifes. Achronical rifing is, when a ftar rifes above the horizonat Sun fetting ; and
achronical fetting is, when a ftar fets with the Sun. Heliacal riiing is, when a ftar1 whicb befor~
wa~> hidden by the rays ofthe Sun, begins toappear in the eaft ; and heliacal fenin& IS, whc;n a l,br,
llhich before was fecn, is hidden under the SWl-beams, and difappem.
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 401·
it is apparent, that, according to the conftitution of the {ea(ons, of ages,
and of the angles, the efficient power and influence of the ftars vary;
and, when there is no contrary conftitution, the ftars have a longer
influence, becaufe it is unmix~d ; for, in beating, they that are moft hot
are moA: powerful ; and, in moift confiitutions, thofe are the moft pow-
erful which are of a moiftening nature. But, when the conftitution is
contrary, they are weaker, by reafon of the temperament and mixture of
contrariety, atrctled by the heating ftars in cold conftitutions, and by
the moift in dry. In the fame manner each of the other conftitutions
have power, according to the proportions of their mixtures. To thefe
we may join the mutual properties of the twelve figns of the zodiac ;
for their general temp~ratures are agreeable to the feafons fubjea to each
ngn J and they obtain fome other qualities arifing from their analogy to
the Sun, Moon, and ftars ; and thefe confiderations of the agreement or
difagreement of the natures and mixtures of the various influences of the
ftars, figns, and parts of heaven, are of no {mall confequence in aftrolo-
gical contemplations. ·
Of the twelve figns, fome are termed tropics, fome equinoCtial, fome
fixed, and others bicorporal. The tropics are two; the firA: from the
{qmmer folA:ice, the thirty degrees of Cancer ; and the other from the
winter folftice, the thirty degrees of Capricorn. Thefe are called tro-
pics, becaufe, when the Sun is pofited in the beginning of thefe figns, he
turns back out of the courfe of latitude or declination to the contrar.ies,
making fummer by his entering into Cancer, and winter by his patfagc
into Capricorn. There are alfo two of the figns equinoCtial; one from
the vernal equinox, which is Aries ; the other from the autumnal
equinox, which is Libra. Thefe are fo termed, becaufe, wheneveYer the
Sun enters the beginning of them, he makes the days and nights equal
all the world over.
Of the other eight figns, four are fixed and four bicorporal. The fixed
are thofe which follow the tropical and equinoCtial ; bec:aufe, When the
Sun is pofited in any of thefe, the cold or heat, or drinefs or moif-
ture of the feafons, which began while the Sun was in the tropics o•
equinoctials, more ftrongly affeB:s us, and the conA:itution of the fea-
fons is more forcibly felt ; not becaufe their condition is naturally fuch,
but becaufe we, being no longer under fuch a conftitution, become more
fenfible of its power. The bicorporal follow the fixed ; and, becaufe
they are between the fixed and the tropics, they partake of the· nature of
both conftitutions.
1
•
Digitized by Coogle
. ·~
A N I L L tts T ·R AT I G N
•
~ain, fix ef the twelvt figns are named mlf~ullne and diurnal J add
~X r~minine and nocturnal. And becaufe the' night ·is alway~ o~xt to
the day, and the feminine is joined to the mafculine, they are placed
one after another by turns. The beginAing is taken from Aries,. be.
caufe the moifture of the fpring is tht heginning of the feafens ; and
btcaufe the mafculine virtue 16 predominant. ai'id the aCtive power before
the peffive , therefore the figni Aries and Libra are efteemed mafcu-
line and diurnal J for thefe defcribe the equinoCl:ial circle,; and the prime
mutation, and ftrongeft motion of all• is caufed by them. The ethct
figns are alternately placed one after another in their proper order ; and•
from the form and quality of them, {orne are termed four..footed, others
terreftrial ; fome commanding, and ethers fruitful. And, to renew them
in the mind of the reader, it mar not be improper to diftinguilh chem
mre. Aries, Gemini• Leo, Libra, Sagittarius. and Aquaries, are inaf•
celine and commanding. Taurus, Cancer, Virgo. Scot'pio, Gapri~n.
and Pifces. are feminine and obeying. Aries. Taurus, Leo, Sagittarius.
and Capricorn, are four-footed. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, ere
terreftrial. Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces, are fruitful. Again, Aries,
Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn, lre termed moveable. Tauras, Lto,
Scorpio, and Aquaries, fixed. Gemini, Virgo, S.
agittarius, and Pifces.
cotnmon. Aries, Taurus, and Gemini, vernal. Cancer, Leo, an4
Virgo, eftival. Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius, autumnal. Capricorn.
Aquaries, and Pifces, hyemnal. Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius. are hot.
dry, and fiery. Taurus, Virgo, and Captieorn, are cold, dry, and earthy.
Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries~ are bot; moift, and airy. Cancer,. Scotpi~
Pifces, Gemini, and Leo, ate moift and watery J apd Virgo is barten.
Now from this difpofition and temperature of the fighs are brought
about the great ends and purpofes of nature, by means of the afpeas and
pofitions of the planets configurated in them ; and. it is upon tbefe
afped:s and configurations that the art of predid:ing is grounded, and
the events of futurity fought out and known. Thefe afped:s are of two
forts, or cla1fes; viz. zodiacal and mundane. The principal zodiaeal
afped:s are the fextile, quartile, trine; and oppofition; and, though the
conjund:ion cannot properly be termed an afpeCl:, yet it may come un-
der the more general name of a familiarity, common to all the afpeCle.
1'he conjund:ion is formed by two planets being bodily joined, or meet-
ing in the fame degree and minute of a fign. The fextile is formed by
two planets when they are two figns, or fixty degrees, afunder ; thcf
quartile, when three figns, or ninety degrees, afunder J the trine, when
four figns. or one hundred and twenty degrees, afunder; and the. oppo-
fition. when fix figns. or one hundred and eighty degrees, afunder;
· which
Digitized by Coogle
0 P A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
~hich being jutl one half of the great cirde, places the planets exactly
facing one another. The fmaller or inferior zodiacal afpeas are the
{eriliquadrate of forty--
five degrees; the quintile, of feventy-two degrees;
· the fefquiquadrate, of one hundred and thirty-five degrees; and the
biquintile, of one hundred and forty-four degrees. And thefe are either
partile or platic; partile, when the conjuntHon or afped is made in
the fame degree and minute, and platic when. not configurated in the
fame degree and-minute, but only within the orbs of the afpecting pla~
net. Moreover, thefe afpech are either dexter or finifter; dexter, when
contrary to the fucceffion of the figns, as a planet in Leo cafts a fextile
dexter to another planet in Taurus. Sinifter afpeds are according to
the fucceffion of the figns; agreeable to which, a planet in Aries calls
his trine finifter to another in Leo; or one in Leo cafts a trine finifter
·to another in Sagittarius.
Mundane afpetls are thofe which are made in the meridional circle,
in reference t~ the earth, and confift of only the fextile, quartile, trine,
and oppofitiofr; though there are other familiarities which we call pa-
rallels, and thefe both muhdane and zodiacal. Of thefe familiarities,
the conjunction is good with benevolent ftars; but with malevolent bad.
The quintile, biquintile, ft:xtile, and trine, are alfo good and fortunate;
·but ·the femiquadrate, fefquiquadrate, quartile, and oppofition, are evil
and unfortunate. Thefe good and evil influences proceed more from the
· nature and quality of the ftars, than from the nature of the figns they
poff'efs ; for it is found that even good afpeas of malefic planets will pro-
duce mifchief, though not in fo great a degree as the evil configurations.
'·: Zodiaca·l parallels are what are commonly called Antifcians, and are
nothing more than paraiJels of declination, or two points in the hea- '
vens at equal diftances from the beginning of any of the tropics, or
equinotlial points. For example; one planet in ten degrees of Aries.
and another in twenty degrees of Pifces, are in zodiacal parallel to each
other; or, in other words, one planet in twenty degrees of Pifces cafl:s
its antifcian, or one parallel, to .cen degrees of Aries, and its contra-anti-
fcian, or another parallel, to ten degrees of LibrJ, But, in taking thtife,
particular attention mufl: be had to each of the planets latitude, for want
of which, great errors have been frequently made. For, fuppofe the
Moon to be pouted in twenty-two degrees of Taurus, with five 'degrees
of north latitude, her antifcian, or zodiacal parallel, taken in the com-
mon way, would fall in eight degrees of Leo, and her contra-antifcian
in eight degrees of Aquaries ·; whereas the true antifcian falls in ten
degrees of Cancer, which is no lefs than twenty-eight degrees from that
No. 20. 5 E obtained
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILI.;USTRATION
obtained in the common way, for there is exactly 'that difference be-
tween the eclipticallongitude of twenty-two degrees of Taurus, with-
out latitude, and twenty-two degrees of Taurus, with five degrees of
north latitude.
A planet thus confidered, as having latitude, hath four zodiacal paral-
lels ; one at its body, one at its antifcional point, and the other two at
their oppolite points. And hence, ac_cording to the example above
fratcd, the Moon's parallels at her body fall in twenty degrees of Ge-
mini, and at the antiici-onal point in ten degrees of Can<.:er; and their
oppofite points or contra- antifcians,_ f..dl in twenty degrees of Sagitta-
rious, and in ten degrees of Capricorn. Thefe antifCians, and contra-
antilcians, are always of a benign and friendly nature, when formed by
the benefic planets; but they are equally unbenign and unfortunate, when
made by violent and malevolent ftars. ·
As zodiacal parallels are only equal difiances from the tropical and
eq uinoB:ial circles, fo mundane parallels, by a parity of reafon, are no-
thing more than a like equal diftance from the horizontal or meridional
points or circles. For example, a planet on the cufp of the twelfth
houfe is in parallel to the cufp of the fecond houfe, becaufe it is exaCtly
at the fame diftance from the afcendant or horizon that the twelfth is ;
and likewife in parallel to the eighth houfe, as being exaCtly the fame
diftance from the tenth houfe or meridian that the twelfth i&. And, as
the zodiacal parallels are meafured by the circle of the zodiac, fo the
mundane parallels are meafured by the diurnal or nocturnal arches; for
juilio long as the Sun or any other planet will be in proceeding from
the cufp of the twelfth houfe to the cufp of the tenth, jufi: fo long the
£une Sun or other planet will be in proceeding, on the fame day, from
the cufp of the tenth to the cufp of the eighth houfe; and juft fo many
hours and minutes of time as there are between the fun-riling and noon,
jufi fo many hours and minutes are there, the fame day, between noon and
_ fun-fetting; hence the diftance between the Sun's riling and fetting is nc-
thing but the diurnal arch, which the meridian, or Sun's place at noon,
cuts into two equal parts; and the diftance between the Sun's fetting and
· rifing confi:itutes the nocturnal arch. Thefe mundane parallels have a
two-fold conlideration in directions; firft fimple, and according to natural
order ; and fecondly, according to the rapt motion of the earth, or pricnum
mobile, both ofwhich muft be attended to in the calculation of nativities.
Now there arc ftgns. di1fociatc and feparate; and thefe are fuch as
have no familiarity by any of the. ways before mentioned; for they nei-
ther
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R· 0 L 0 G Y.
. ther command nor obey, nor mutually behold each other, nor are of
·equal power; but they are configurated by one or five figns, and do not
at an partake of the afpects, either by oppofition, trine, quartile, or
ff'xti)e. Hence they are termed injuCI; for, being confisurated by one
fign's dill:ance, they are as it wae diftorted from each other; and thofe
which behold by five figns divide the wh >le circle of the zodiac into
umqual parts. The figns under this defcription, arc Ari .~s, G~mini,
Libra, and Sagittarius, which have no familiarity or afpects with Taurus
or Scorpio; and the figns, Cancer, Virgo, Capricorn, and Pifces, have
no familiarity with Leo or Aquaries. ·
But the planets have familiarity .with all' parts of the zodiac by
Houfes, Trigons, Exaltations, and Terms~ Cancer and Leo; approaching
· nearer to our vertical point than either of the others, and thereby pro- ·
ducing heat and warmth, are for that reafon defined to be the houfes of
the two great and primary lumin.lries : Leo is attributed to the Sun as
mafculine, and Cancer to the Moon as feminine. Hence the femi-
circle of the zodiac from Leo to Capricorn is termed folar, and from
Aquaries to Cancer lunar, in order that each planet lhould polfds one
fign for its houfe in each of its femicircles; the one bearing configuration
to the Sun, and the other to the Moon, according to the motion of the
fphere of each, and to their natural qualities. Saturn, therefore, beino-
in nature cold, and inimical to h~::~t, occupying the higheft orb, and
bei.ng at the greateft diftance fmm the luminaries, takes for his houfes
the figns which are oppotite to Cancer and Leo. namely, Aquaries and
Capricorn, becaufe thefe figos are by nature cold and wintery, and the
afpec1s which are made by oppofition do not co..'llbine to any good 0 r
benevolent purpofe. Jupiter, becaufe his orb is next below that of
Saturn, a1fumes for his houfes the two next figns, Sagittarius and Pi(ces
which are windy and fruitful, by reaJon of their trigonal refpeH to th~
luminaries, which is a fituation proper for the production of good.'
Mars, being next in order to Jupiter, and dry by nature, takes for his
houfes the two next figns, Aries and Scorpio, which are 6milar in their
effeCts to Mars, by having malefic and mifchievous radiations with the
luminaries. Venus, being temperate, has for her houfes the two next ,
1igns, Taurus and Libra, which are of a fruitful and prolific nature
and correfpond with the luminaries by a fextile ray, and is never mor;
than two fign~ ditlant from the Sun. ~erc~ry, being circumtcribed by
the orbs_. of aU the other planets, takes for h1s houfes Gemini and Virgo .
and !s r.•.•er more than one fign diftant from the central Sun, being th;
fi;ft planet next him.
Tho
Digitized by Coogle
,
~o6 · A N I L L U S T l\ A T t 0 N
. .
The familiarities by triplicity are next to.be confidered by calculator•
of nativities J for ~hereas a triplicity and figure of equal fides ob,ains
an agreement, fo the circle of the zodiac is circumfcribed by three
circles, the equinottial and the two tropics, and is divided into four
equilateral triangles, which confi:itute thefe triplicities. The firfi: is
formed by the three mafculine figns, Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius J and
it has for its lords, the Sun, Jupiter, and Mars; but Mars being of-a
contrary nature to the folar influence, he is excluded froin bearing any
government in this triplicity, and therefore the Sun has the rule by
day, and Jupiter by night. Aries occupies the equino&ial circle, Leo
the efiival, and Sagittarius the winter. This trigon is principally
northern, by reafon of the dominion of Jupiter; and it is windy and
fruitful. It is alfo north-weft, and receives a mixture of the north-weft
winds, becaufe it is the houfe of Mars, which planet fiirs up and governs
thofe winds.
The fecond triplicity, which confi£h of Taurus, Virgo, and Capri-
corn, is under the government of the Moon and Venus. The Moon
-governs by night, and Venus by day. Taurus is in the efi:ival circle,
Virgo in the equinoCtial, and Capricorn in the winter. This triplicity,
becaufe of the dominion of Venus, is fouth; for this fiar, being endued
with a warming and moifiening power, produces fouth winds; and be-
caufe Saturn has his houfe in Capricorn, in . this triplicity, it likewife
·partakes of a mixture of the eaft winds ; for Saturn, being familiar to the
oriental parts, by reafon of the condition of the Sun, produces and go-
verns the eaft winds.
The third triplicity is formed of the figns Gemini, Libra, and Aqua..
ries, three mafculine figns, and is placed under the government of
Saturn and Mercury; Saturn rules by day, and ~ercury by night;
Gemini is fituate in the fummer circle, Libra in the equiilotlial, and
Aquaries in the winter. This triplicity is chiefly eaftern, on ac..
count of the government of Saturn; but it becomes partly north-eaft,
by the influence of Jupiter, on which account it affumes a mixture of the
north-eaft winds.
The fourth triplicity, confifting of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces, is
_
chiefly under Mars, who derives an influence here, on account of
having his houfe in Scorpio ; bat, becaufe the figns in this triplicity are
feminine, the Moon by night, and Venus by day, rule jointly wirh
Mars, and intermix their qualities and influence together. Cancer is
fituate in the cftival circle, Scorpio in the winter, and Pifces in the
3 cquinoetial.
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
This triplicity is weftern, becaufe of the dominion of Mars and the·
Moon ; but, aff'uming a mixture by the rule of Venus, it becomes in
fome meafure fouth-wefr.
':fhe familiarities by exaltation are thus occafioned ; the Sun, when
he enters Aries, makes his tranfit into the high and northern femicircle;
but, when he enters Libra, he paff'es into the low and fouthern fcmicir-
cle. For this reafon, the Sun has his exaltation in Aries, in which the
days begin to lengthen, and the heating nature of the Sun begins to in-
creafe; and for the contrary reafon he receives his fall in Libra. Saturn,
being of an oppofite nature to the Sun, has an exaltation in Libra, and
his fall in Aries; fo'r, wherefoever heat is increafed, cold is diminilhed ;
and, where there is an augmentation of cold, heat is leff'ened. So the
Moon, becaufe lhe makes her conjuntlion with the Sun in Aries, and
makes the beginning of the increafe of her light in the firft fign of her
triplicity, _which is Taurus, that is affigned for her exaltation. So 1u-
piter, the producer of northern and fruitful winds, when in Cancer, be-
comes more northerly, and acquires a greater increafe of power; he
therefore takes Cancer for his exaltation, and Capricorn for his fall. And
.fince Mars is chiefly of a burning nature, and becomes moft heatin~ in
Capricorn, becaufe he is then in his moft fouthern declination, he hath
his exaltation in Capricorn, oppofite to that of 1upiter, and his fall in
Cancer. Again, Venus is naturally moiftening, but mofily fo when in
Pifces ; for which reafon ilie atfumes her exaltation in that· fign, and
takes her fall in Virgo. But Mercury being of an oppofite nature, and
moftly dry, takes the oppofite fign Virgo for his exaltation ; for then
autumn, the drieft part of the feafon, appears; and h~ has his fall in the
fign Pifces.
Familiarities by terms have been already largely ex'plained in the
former part of this work. But it is neceff'.1ry to remark, that the be-
ginning of the figns, and of the terms alfo, ought to be made from the
beginning of the equinotlial and tropical figns; and this is manifefr, be-
caufe we fee t:heir natures, and powers, and familiarities, have not any
other caufe, ·but from the tropics and equinoxes ; for, if other begin-
nings are ~ppointed, we iliall either be neceffitated to ufe the nature of
the figns no longer in the theory of judgments, or, if we do admit them,
we fhall commit error by corrupting the diftances, and dividing thofe -
from which influences are afforded them.
Betides thefe familiarities of the tl:ars and figns, they alfo poff'efs what
are called their faces, thrones, and the like. Their proper face is when
No. 20. s F each
Digitized by Coogle
/
..
408 AN ILLUSTRATION
each ftar keeps the fame figure with the Sun and Moon which its houfe
bears to their houfe. This is done when Venus makes a fexangular
figure to the luminaries ; to the Sun when £he is occidental, and to
the Moon when oriental, according to the fucceffion of houfes. They
are alfo faid to be in their thrones, when they have a power in the place
they po1fefs, according to the foregoing prerogatives, by two or more
tefiimonies; for then their energy and influences are increafed, becaufe
the familiarity of the ambient twelve figns co-operates therewith. They
are Jikewife faid to be in their joy, when, although they have no fami-
liarity with the ambient figns, yet are fo in refpeet to others of the fame
condition with them, and by which likenefs there is found a communi..
cation by fympathy. So again, when. they are found of an unlike and
contrary condition, much of their power is diminifued by a new and
mixed virtue arifing from the different temperature of the ambient figns.
Hence let it.be underfiood, that, when Mercury is one fign diftant from
the Sun, he is in his face; Venus, when two figns diftant; Jupiter,
when four figns diftant ; and Saturn, when five figns from the Sun.-
The fame obfervation holds good in refpeCl: of the Moon, but then the
rule muft be made in figns antecedent to her; as, if the Moon were in
Virgo, then Mercury woul'd be fo dignified in Leo, Venus in Cancer,
Mars in Gemini, &c. The thrones of the planets are thefe : Saturn's
throne is in Aquaries; Jupiter's in Sagittarius; Mar~·s in Scorpio; the .
Sun's in Leo; Venus's in Taurus; Mercury's in Virgo; and the Moon's
in Cancer.
The familiarities, by application and feparation, are likewife to be con-
fide red in the DoCtrine of Nativities. Thofe planets which precede
apply to thofe which follow ; and they that follow feparate from thofe
which precede. Thefe applications and feparations are likewife to be
confidered witla refpea to their latitude ; for the fmaller the latitude of
planets in conjunction is, the. more powerful will be their influence;
and, if two planets in conjunction have confiderabJe latitude of different
denominations, their influence will be thereby· much le1fened. This
obfervation likewi(e holds good in direaions; for, the nearer any pla-
net is to the ecliptic line, the greater will his influence be. Moreover,
their effeas are either ftrong or weak, in refpect of the horizon ; for,
·when they are pofited in the mid-heaven, or pafs into the place fucce-
dent to the mid-heaven, they are very {hong and powerful ; the fame
alfo if they are.in the horizon itfelf, or in any of the fuccedent houfes,
and more particularly when in oriental parts. But, when they are in the
imum cceli, or otherwife pofited under the earth, their influence is very
weak, and of but little effect. ·
1 From
Digitized by GoogIe
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
From all the foregoing confiderations, it is evident that the efficient
power of the ftars is deduced from their peculiar and natural afpeCls.
or proportional diftances, confidered in refped: of the Sui1, the angles,
and the quality of the ambient figns; and by the power and influence of
thefc afpeCls are all aftrological fpeculations governed. But how thefc
afpects were firft difcovered, and their virtues and proportions afcertained,
does no where app~ar; though it might be no difficult taik to account ~
for both upon philofophical and mathematical principles, fincc nature
every where, as well in the motions and effects of the heavenly bodies,
as in all other arithmetical and geometrical refpeCls, particularly cele-
brates thofe proportions above all others.o Picus, fpeaking of the afped:s,
thinks mankind were led to the knowledge of them by obferving the
different phafes of the Moon ; for, when the is new, horned, in her
quarters, gibboffity, or at full, her forms arc frill changed at thefc
proportioned diftances from the Sun ; betides which, it is to be obferved,
that in her annual revolutions the is conftantly found about the trine of
her own place in the beginning of the former year.
Other aftronomers, of eftablilhed reputation, have likewifc obferved,
that nature particularly points to every configuration, while w~ confider
the motions of the other planets. Abohazer judiciou.fly affirms, that
the two inferior planets, in their ftations, defcribc the arch proper to a
quartile afpea ; and Pliny alfo recommends to our obfervation the trine
afpett, conftantly formed by the ftations of three fuperior planets.
But, above all, it cannot be confidered without great admiration, how
wonderfully nature hath nobilitated all the afpeds in the motions of
Saturn and Jupiter. For, as their conjunctions are rare, and bappen but
once in twenty years, fo hath nature evermore difpofed thefe· conjunc-
tions in the moft remarkable parts of the zodiac, that is, in fuch figns
only as behold each other in an equilateral triangle infcrib~d. For, be-
tween any two great conjunCtions of Saturn and Jupiter, there are nine-
teen Egyptian years, three hundred and eighteen d:iys, and thirteen
hours, in which fpace of time thofe planets are moved from the place
of their former conjunCtions eight figns and almofi: three degrees; which
excefs of three degrees is the caufe why, after ten conjunctions, they pafs
from one triplicity to another, and one triplicity continues one hundred
ninety-eight equal years, two hundred fixty-five days, (the intercalary
day ofevery fourth year omitted,) and ten hours. But the revolution of
all the triplicities is finilhed only once in feven hundred ninety-four·
equal years, three hundred thirty-one days, and fixteen hours; or other-
wife in feven hundred ninety-four Julian years, one hundred thirty-
three days, and fixteen hours ; which, being doubled, amounts to ·one
thoufand
Digitized by Coogle
410 A. N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
thoufand five hundred and eighty-eight, which number of years · thofe
authors are thought to have refpeCted who confiaere~ the year 1588
from the birth of Chrift would prove fo fatal.
From hence therefore it is, and not without fufficient caufe, that
-they are termed great conjunCtions, both happening rarely, and abiding
in one triplicity almoft two hundred years together, and not compleat-
ing all the triplicities of t~e zodiac in much lefs than eight hundred
years: confequently they have not yet gone through all the triplicities
eight times fince the beginning of the world. Neither are the other
afpeBs formed by thefe planets to pafs unnoticed ; for whoever obferves
when Saturn and Jupiter behold each other by an oppofition or quartile
afpect, they will evidently perceive that they fiill carry fuch a regard
to the figns or plac~s of their preceding and next conjunctions, as ever-
more to irradiate the one and the other with an oppofition, fextile,
quartile, or trine afpect; which I think is a fufficient proof that nature
hath allured us to the confideration of the archs formed by thefe afpects
in the particular motion of each refpective planet.
To confirm the virtues and efFects of thefe afpects, we need only con-
, fider what phyficians are taught by experience, namely, that the crifis
.-"' of all acute difeafes has a .palpable and extraordinary fympathy with
~ all thefe five configurations of the Moon, made to her place at the be-
ginning of the difeafe. Or, as a further proof, we need only refer to
what has already been faid relative to the tides, which conftantly
obfefve the motions of the Moon~ their fpring and higheft floods al-
ways concurring with their conjunction and oppofition to the Sun, as
the neaps and lowell: tides always do to her quarters. And it is
equally remarkable that the feas, in their daily ebbing and flowing upon
every co.1ft, have refpect only to fuch azimuthal circles, as are in a
quartile pofition when the Moon patfes by them. Again, the Sun ·moil:
evidently manifefts great effects by the quartile afpect, fmce he modi-
fies and governs \he viciffitudes of feafons, or four quarters of the
year, by his ingrefs into the four equinoCtial and tropical points of
the zodiac.
The power of thefc afpects is not injudicioufly fiated by Julius
Firmicus, in the arithmetical obfervation which he makes of the num-
ber offigns agreeable to the afpects, 1, 2, a, 4t 6, anfwering in pro-
greflive order to the conjunction, fextile, quartile, trine, and oppofi-
tion ; for thefe numbers only, and no others, will divide the zodiac,
confifting of twelve figns.; for which reafon he makes th~m the only .
aliquot
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 411
aliquot parts of a circle. Ptolomy alfo added hot a little to the dignity
of thefc irradiations, when he firft difcovered the geometri.c,,J proper-,
tion which the fubtenfcs of each of thefe archs bear in retpel1 to the
diameter of a circle. Others again, with no lefs ingenuity, · have .ob-
ferved, that, .amongll: all regular or ordinate figures that may be inicrjbed
in a cir~le, though tht:.fame be infinite, there are none whofe fides and
angles carry away the prerogative at the circumference and centre, hut
thote whofe fides and angles are anfwerable to the fubtenfes and archs
of their afpeCts. For, amongft all ordinate planes that may be infcribed,.
there are no two whofe fides joined together have pre-eminence to oc..
cupy a femicircle, but the hexagon, quadrate, and equilateral triangle,
anfwering to the. fextile., quartile, and trine irradiated. · The fubtenfe
therefote of a fextile .a(ped confifts of two fig.ns, and, joined to the fub-
tenfe of a trine, CQmpokd of four, being regular aod equilateral, take
up fix .figns, which is a complete femicircle. In like manner, the
fides of a quadrate infc.ribed, fubtending three figos, and, twice reckoned,
alfo occupy the moiety .of a circle;. And what the foregoing figures are
- faid .to perform., either doubled or joined together, may alfo be found
in the afpeCt of oppofition..; for the .diametrical Jine which patfes from
the place of conjunCtion to the oppotite poin.t, divides a circle into two
equal parts, a ~ircumftance which cannot be found in any other infcripts.
For example, the fide of a .regular pentagon fubtends feventy-two de-
grees; of an octagon .but forty-five; the remainders of which archs, viz.
one hundred and eight, and one hundred and thirty-five, degrees, are not
fubtended by the (ides of any ordinate figure.
And thus, as the fubtenfes of thefe .afpel1s are the ferne with the fides
of the foregoing infcripts, and . only take up the circumference of a
circle; fo it is evident, that the angles at which they concur are the
fame wherewith the ordinate planes take up the whole fpace about the
centre. For, if we confider the angle of a fexti'le afpeet at the earth, it
is all the fame with that of an equilateral triangle confifting of fixty
degrees, and contains two-thirds of a rig~t angle; but fix times two
thirds of a right angle make four right angles; wherefore fix fextiles,
equal to fix equilat~ral triangles, fill the whole fpace about a point,
which is equal to four ,right .angles. Secondly, every angle 'Of a
quartile is a right angle, and the fame with the angle of a rettangle
quadrilater figure, four of which fill a whole !pace. Thirdly, the angle
which two ftars in a trine make at the centre of the earth, is meafured
by an angle of one hundred. and twenty degrees, which is equal to the
angle of a regular hexagon, confifting of a right angle and one-third;
and, tckcn three. times, makes four right angles; whereof three equila-
No. 21. 5 G teral
Digitized by Coogle
I
AN ILLUSTRATION
teral hexagons, or three trine afped•, alfo fill the whole fpace about the
centre. To thefe we may likewife add the afped: of oppofition; which
confifl s of two right angles, and therefore being doubled will perform
the like operatiOn with the refi; whilft any other figure of many angles,
_however joined together, will either fall fhort _
of four right angles, or
elfe exceed them. For infiance, the angle of a pentagon contains a right
angle and one fifth over, wherefore three fnch angles placed about a point
will fall fhort of four right angles by two fifths of a right angle; whilft
on the other hand fout fuch angles will exceed four right angles by
four-fifths. ·
Thefe fpecu1ations-rlrerefore duly confidered, it were fenfelefs to ima.
gine that nature hath fo many ways diftinguiilied thefe remarkable .irra-
diations of the ftars in vain, or admonithed us to a particular regard of
them, by fo many rare and fecret operations, as welt in the motion of
the planets, as in their eff~as and pmportibns, if they were not endued
with more force and virtue than any of the others. Hence it has. given
fcope to the ingenuity and abilities of the learned to affign a caufe, why
thefe fc:w configurations, above all the others, iliould be endued with
fuch extraordinary efficacy. Nor has any reafon yet been given, with
more apparent probability, than that thefe proportions. whereof the
afpeBs are-found to confift, are precifely the fame with thofe which are
found in harmonicaI concords; for which reafon it is fuppofed no lefs
probable, that the rays of the ftars in thefe proportioned diftances, lhould
powerfully affect the matter of aU fublunary things, by the fame rule
that the like geometrical fymmetry in founds and voices iliould ftir up
the fenfe and paffions of the hearer. And it is an efi:ablifhed obfervation
throughout the produdions of nature, that, where due proportion is
not wanting, there the never fails to endue all her effects wilh fuch an
height of perfeCtion, as cannot but firike the fenfe and underftanding of
every obferver. And thus it is even in artificial compofitions, and in
medicines ; for we know thefe only to be mofi: kind and fovereign,
which obferve a competent fymmetry or temperature of the active and
paffive qualities. With great propriety, therefore, and with every ap-
pearance of truth, moft of the learned agree with Ptolomy, that the caufe
of this wonderful efficacy in the foregoing afpeas. proceeds in a great
meafure from harmonica! proportion.
But more clearly to demonftrate this fimilitude or affinity between
the proportions of the afpeHs, and the like diftances obfetved in mufical
concords, we muft underftand that all harmony whatfoever originally
·fprings from three fuch terms gf numbers as refpeEt each other in fuch a
manner,
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R o· L o•G Y.
" manner, that their differences invariably retain the fame proportion as ·
is found between their extremes.. F•r inftance, in thefe three numbers,
6, 4, 3• anfwering to the figns of the oj>pofition, trine, and quartile
configurations, it is evident, if we compare the extremes with the mean,
that 2 will be the difference between 6 the fidl, and 4 the fecond,
number; and 1 is in like manner between 4' the middle or fecond,
and 3 the third, number; but 2 being·double in proportion to 1, there..-·
fore 6, the firft number, refpeCts 3• the third number, with the like
proportion. The analogy· of which proportions, as before ftated, is
found to be the bafis of all mufic,. arHing wholly from thefe three
flmple concording 'diftances, which by muficians are termed diape.nte•
conlifting of a fefquialter proportion, as 6 to 4 ; or, which is all the
fame, of three or two; diatdfaron, compounded of a fefquitertia, as 4
to 3; and diapa.fon, confifting of a double proportion, as 6 to 3• or 2 to
I ; and is equal to the two ·firft diftances and proportions put together.-·
For a fefquialter added to a fefquitertia, according to the rules of pro-
portion, will prod~ce a diapafon, or double proportion, exactly fuch as
is found between the former extremes cempared together, viz• .as 6 to
3· In like manner, by comparing the diapafon with beth thefc: parts,
that is, with the fefq~ialter and fefquitertia, according to the cuftomary
manner of fupputating proportions, we are brought·to the two other
compounded or imperfect concords, fo conftituting the five firft' and na-
tural diftances i~ barmonical founds, that, being diverfiy and judicioufiy
varied between themfelves, produce an infinite variety of all kinds of
melody.
After the fame manner we 'find it with regard to the light and in-
fluence of the heavens. For, although there are other afpe!:ts attributed
to the ftars, both zodiacal and mundane, yet thefe five were anciently, and
are even now. obferved as being moft apt to attion, and moll: powerful in
their effects, namely, the conjunCtion, oppofition, trihe, quartile, and
fextile; and there is nothing more certain, than that by the harmonica}
mixture of thefe proportioned beams, the generation and corruption of
this mortal world is infinitely varied and governed. Wherefore, as the
force of all harmony, fo likewife the effectual reafon of aU aCtion in the
influence of the ftars, is properly deduced from the aforefaid fymmetry
of thefe diftances. But, more fully to illuftrate that the angl& of th~·
afpech, compared between themfelves, concur with thefe harmonic pro.;.
portions in mufic, let it be remembered, that ftars in an oppofite or dia-
metrical afpeH are disjoined by the fpace of two right angles, which
are meafured with the arch of fix figns, or one hundred and eighty de •
~:rees of circumference; and that the trine, confilling of four tigns, or·.
OJlC~
Digitized by Coogle
\-
1
it_~
K
'-l
-
:t"<
~~+ AN ILLU·ST,ltATION
Cll~ hundred and tWenty degrees, confl:ituteS one right angfe and One
third of another; alfo, that the quartile afpect takes up one entire right
.u~ gle, and is fubtended with the arch of three figns, or ninety degrees ;
a~;d likewifc that a fcxtile is confiituted but of two figns, or fixty de.•
;,rces, which is two thirds -of a right angle. , This being admitted, if
~e no\v compare the two right angles of the opp.ofition, ta~en toge-
ther with the angles ·of the reO: of the af~ects, and e1tber the.tnne placed
between the oppofition and the quarule, or the quartile between
the oppofition and the fextile, we fuall find . either way three num-
bers which admit all the laws of harmonic propor~ion, as becomes evi.
dent by the following figures •.
8
180
A
120
0 8
J80 *
6o
~ The firft figure fufficieotly~~xplains itfelf; but in t.Jle fecond, Jet the
. oppofition be compared with'the fextile, aod it will be found to have a
~ triple proportion to the fame, compounded of a double and fefquialter
· " proportion, as diapente is with diapafon in mufic; and hence it is found;
-4 J - no fimple or perfeCt afpect, but exaCtly anfwerable to B flat,- the tirft
' T imperfect or compounded concord in mufic, being a fixth from G .fol re
ut; which is neverthelefs ·in fome refpeels efteemed perfea, becaufe it
bears the fame divifion, compared to D.folre, as the perfect concords do;
for it is half a fifth, dpd•fituate in the centre between r ut and D .foln.
Again, th.e fextile aipea compared with the trine, is juft one half there-
of, whi,c:h has1
been already proved to be in a fefquialter proportion to
the oppofi'tion, as D .fol re is tor ut, ·and therefore exaaJy correfponds
with th~ diapente io mufic, which I here take occafion to mention
~ '-·'
• The firft figure proves the three concords to have three perfeCt: afpecb; and the fecond
{hews the fextile to be an imperfeCt afpeCt, agreeable to diapentf'um diapnfon, that is, a triple pro--
portion, as 6o is to So.
again
oigitiLd by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
again, becau(c I may hereafter allude to it lVhen I come to fpeak of the
new afpects. What I have lllready faid will fuffice to fuew the p~ilo..
{ophical (peculation of thofe who have afcribed the efficacy of the pl.t-
netary irradiations to the harmonica! proportions which are found b~tween
them; and, fince it is obvious that thefe afpects do really bear the fame
mutua) refpect one towards another as all h~rmonical concords ~refound
to retain among themfclvcs, what reafon can be affigned, why nature'• •
operations in the lights and influences of the heavenly bodies fuould not
be governed by this_fymmetry of proportion, in the fame maQner as we
£.nd to be univerfally admitted_in the fcienc.e of mufic ?.
But all this rather ferves to illul\:rate a fimile, and to prove that nature ·
has indeed· diftinguiilied thefe proportions with extraordinary virtues.
above any other, than to fatisfy the miQd w!;y, in the infinite variety of
founds and lights, thefe proportions only fuould cortefpond fo fweetly
in mufic, and be moft effectual in the'operations of nature. Kepler,
with a fuew of plaufibility, has endeavoured to demonftrate, that God, in
the creation of the world, obferved the fame propPrtion in the magni-
tude and dtftance of the celeftial fphcres that is found in the regular
folids which in geometry have thqr origin from the ordinate planes ;
and therefore concludes, that the fll.Otions of the lleavenly bodies cor.-
refpond mot\: fweetly, ·and co-opcra~e moft powerfully together, wh~a.
the nature of fublunary thi~gs, cn4u¢d, as he fuppofes,. with a fenfitive
faculty, ~pprehends and r~ceives ~he beams Qf the ftars by their con-
cunence at the centre of t~ cart~ ; wl)ich anfwers to the ordinate
planes, from whence the regularity of thefe proportions is derived. as
the impreffed characters of that admirable fymmetry which God is faid
to have obferved in the creation of the world. And hence he fuppofes,
that, as often as any earthly fubftance meets with thefe proportions, it is
affected as it were by this idea, and exercifed in fuch a manner, that
wha.t it but ordinarily performs at other times it will now produce
with much mo,re effect. Not that thefe proportions work any thing of
themfelves; for, in Qlufic, it is neither the founds, nor the proportion
of the concords, .that work any thing of themfelves,. or beget any de-
light in the he~rer; but the foul, approaching to' the organs of fenfe.
there firft entertains th~ founds inwardly, then regards th~ir proportions,
and, finding the fame good and geometrical, )aftly exhilarates itfelf, and
moves the body wherein it is as with an object wherein it takes delight.
Such alfo is the fympathy between the heavenly influences and all fublu·
,nary matter, animate, or inanhnate. · ·
No. 21· sH
Digitized by Coogle
.(t6 A N I L L U S T R A ,T I 0 N
But, be this conceit of Kepler's as it may, we are not without {pffi-
.cient geometrical demonftration, to thew the reafon why thefe propor.
tions or irradiations of the ftars are more effeBual than any others. For.
fince it is admitted that an union of beams affords the greateft influence,
{o it is allowed that the conjunction and oppofition are, for this reafon, ·
the moft potent and powerful configurations of all ot~rs, as is lhewn
by the following figure, where we fiDd the beams, as well incident as re-
fl.ected, to be united.
P.or, Jet A be fuppofed in conjunction with B, it is lirft manifeft that
all the beams flowing from G and E, .the points of touch in the circum-
ference of A, fhall unite themfelves with the beams that are fent from
B to C, the earth's c.entre. Secondly, we are alfo to obferve, that in
this cafe the beams A C, or B C, coming from the centre of the llars•.
refteCl only into itfelf, as being perpendicular ; whereas thofe beams·
which are fent from the points E and G make an acute angle at C, and
retlect the one into the other at equal angles ; as G C reflect from C to.
E, and E C from C to G. LaftJy, the union that' happens in an oppofi-
tion is manifeft without any illuftration, where the beams fent from the·
opp.ofite ~oints make but one ftrair. line, as G F, and E H, in the
foregoing figure. .
In
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G 't. 41·1
In 1ike manner, in my contemplation, the configurations of the (ex-
tile and trine have a concurrence of their beams at the earth, .and a mu:.
tual reflection of the one into the other, and fo an union by refleCtion, .aa
ill the following figure is manifeft. ·
A
For, admit ABC to be three ftars, A and B in a fextile configuration,
and A C in a trine; then, for fo much as B F, the beam incident of the
fextile~ falls obliquely in refpect of A F, and makes an acute angle there-
with, it is evident, to any one who has the fmalJeft underftanding in
optics, that B F fuall reflect to C, and fo be united to C F, -the inci-
dent of the ftar C, which is in a trine configuration with A. For the
fame reafon, C F fuaJl reflect to the ftar in B, and be alfo united with B
F, ·the incident of the ilar at B. And hence arife the grounds of th.1t
familiarity in thefe arcbs of heaven, which Ptolomy has laid down as the
moft apt for the apheta of life; or the houfes of the figure.
-
But the quartile afpec.t, whofe beams only cut each other ad angulos
reSos, and fo reflect into themfelves, derives its principal virtue from
the exact proportion of its angles in taking up the centre of the earth ;
and hence the myftery of thefe configurations wholly conlifts in this, that
thefe irradiations only, and thofe that are derived from them,. are pro..
portionable unto all patible matter, and therefore moft effectual. For
that thefe irradiations only are every way proportionable, has been al-
ready abundantly proved, whether we refpect their taking up the circum-
ference, the power, and proportion, of their fubtenfes, unto the diameter,
or, laftly and principally, their occnpying of place at the centre of the ·
earth by their angles, whereby they muft need& thine upon an·etement 1ry
mat:er
.:6F·
.-f18 ·A· ·N l L L U S T It A T I 0 N
matter with a due and even mixture of light and influence. And, nneo
no other archs, fubtenfes, or angles, are found to enjoy thefe preroga..
tives, it is evident that thcfe, above all others, have that fymmctry of
proportion·which is neither defective, interrupted, nor redundant ; bu,t
fuch are the archs, fubtenfes, and angles, ofthefeirradiations, that thefe,
and no other, are exactly proportionable. Now as that which is defeCtive,
and wants equality of proportion, leaves the action fruftrate and with-
out effect ; fo that, which on the other band offends in excefs, muft needs
incnr the contrary fault, and overcharge that which either nature or art
intended to perform; whereby it wiJl necefi'arily follow, that, wherever
there is no defect, nor excefs·, but an equal and juft mixture of the in-
fluence of the ftars in tbefe irradiations, thcfe onJy can be apt and pro..
per to produce perfect and agreeable effects in the formation and tempe-
rature of all {ublunary things. For it happens in thefe effects which arc
produced by the mixture of light and heat, juft the fame as in chemi-
cal operations, where a defect of heat produces nothing ; while, on the
contrary, excefs will deftroy the whole, either by fublimation, vitrifica..
tion, eruption, or the like. ·
Having thus fatisfactorily fuewn how the points of the ordinate planes.
whereunto thefe cqnfigurations have been compared, often reiterated, do
take up pJace, I D:iall now fet forth how the beams of any two ftars in
any one of the former configurations fhall occupy more (pace than that
which is comprehended between theirincidents or beams oftrue motion;
and how by their beams, either incident, reflected, or oppofite, they
occupy and pofi'efs the whole centre of the earth at one inftant with pro-
portionable angles. To demonftrate this, in refpect to the conjunction
and oppofition. whofe force rather depends upon union than proportion,
I need only refer the reader to a view of the laft diagram but one, where
he wiJJ find that the united beams of fucb ftars as are in conjunction and
oppofition furround the centre, and all elementary matter whatfoever,
fubject to the actions of heaven. With regard to the quartile, whofc
beams incident and oppofite traverfe the centre of the earth at four right
angles, viz. at A F G, G F I, A F H, and H F ~; and feeing four
points of a rectangle quadrilater figure hath been already proved to occu.
py place; I likewife,nced no other proof, io this configuration, than that the
reader will in the ]aft figure obferve how thefe four right angles, made
by one quartile afpect, take up the,centre of the earth. But, concerning
the trine and fcxtile afpects, we have yet more to confider; for, fuppofe
two fiars, A and B, in the laft diagram, irradiate the earth with their
fexti1e beams; although it be true, _that, by protracting the oppofite
beam from B to F, the centre of the earth feems occupied with propor-
3 tionablc
'·
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
tionable angles, B F A being fubtend.!d by the ark of fixty degrees,
which is before declared to be the angle of an ordinate equilateral trian-
gle, arid fo leaves the outward angle B F I equal to the angle. of an ordi-
nate hexagon, fubtended here by the ark of one hundred and twenty de-
grees, which is the ark of a trine ; and the like being alfo found in the
angles made by the oppofite beams ad verticem ; yet, neverthelefs, we
rnuft here confider how the incident beam of B, viz. B F, reflects into-
C, and fo takes up the whole femicircle A B C I with three fextiles, viz.
A F B, B F C, and C F I. In like manner, if we fuppofe C to be in
a triangular configuration with A, it is evident that as the oppofite beam
of A, viz. F I, makes a fextile with the incident beam of a ll:ar at C, viz.
C F; fo C F, being the beam incident of the ftar at C, refletls a) fo to
the point B, and fo makes the fame three fextile afpech wherewith .the
aforefaid whole femicircle is occupied, as above demonll:rated. Thefe
confiderations wi11 undoubtedly fatisfy the reader how any two ll:ars, in
either of the afpech above alluded to, proportionably occupy the whole
centre of the earth in the fame moment of time, without reiterating th~.
fame angle.
I have hitherto only fpoken of what are termed the old configurations,
which are indifputably the moft excellent; but I !hall now mention
what are called the new ones, as introduced by the ingenious Kepler,
namely, the quintile confifting of feventy-two degrees ; the biquintile,
of one hundred and. forty-four degrees ; and the flfquiquadrate, of one
hundred and thirty-five degrees ; which afpects, being added to the for-
mer, make eight configurations, anfwering to the eight confonant fiopa
in a monochord. Thefe new additions are by no means improperly made,
fince many eminent praCtitioners of this fcience have experienced their uti-
lity in fpeculations on the weather and meteors ; as weJl as in bringing
up the acciden~s of a nativity. Neither is there any want of philofophi-
cal or mathematical demonfi:rations to fupport them; for as in mufic
there are but three perfect concords, nan~ ely, the diapafon, diapeote,
and diateffaron ; fo in aftrology there are but three perfect afpeets anfwera-
ble to them, viz. the oppofition, the trine, and the quartile; the fextile
having already been proved an imperfeCt afpect, anfwering exactly to B
fiat, the firft among the imperfect and compounded concords. Where-
fore, confidering that the firfi: three perfect concords are found to have
their perfect afpects anfwerable unto them, and that B flat, being an im-
perfe~t concord, is alfo found to agree exactly in proportion with the
fextile, being an imper-fect afpect, this undoubtedly gave Kepler fuffici-.
ent reafon to conceive that the other harmonica} proportions contained in
the fame monochord. might alfo have their afpects, namely, the quin-
No. .21. 5 I · tile,
Digitized by Coogle
..20 AN .ILLUSTRAT ..ION
tile, biquintile, and fefquiquadrate, which are precife1y found t() cor-
refpond with them, and are in a fimilar degree effectual in their mode of
operation.
Thus having explained what the afpects or configurations of the pla-
nets really are, and proved that their power and influences are grounded
upon philofophical and mathematical principles, I fhall now proceed to
fhew their applications in the iffues of human life, fr-om the conception
to the grave.
It is, I believe, univerfally admitted, that the beginning of human
generation takes place at the time of conception ; and therefore we ought
to be exact in afcertaining this time, and in confrdering the effective
power of the configurations of the fiars, as they then happen to be pofited,
and from thence contemplate the qualities of the mind and 'body. For
in the beginning, although the feed at once affumes a quality by the
communication of the circumambient matter, which at other times of
its formation and increafe becomes different ; yet naturally, as it in-
creafes, it retains its own proper matter, and is rendered more like the
peculiar nature of the firft quality, with which it was impreifc::d at the
time of conception. But, if it be of fome impcrtnnce to know the time
of conception, it is infinitely more fo to know the true time of birth ;
for by the firft, the accidents only before birth are known; but by the
fecond, thofe incident to our whole lives are to be difcovered. Where-
fore one may be called a beginning, and the other 11n after-beginning;
the firft, the generation of human feed; the fecond, that of man. For
in this ftate the infant aifumes many things which it had not when in the
womb, and thefe peculiar to human nature alone, and the formation of
the body. And although the properties of the celefiial and elemen-
tary matter feems to confer nothing at the time of birth in refpect to the.
formation ofthe child, yet it operates moft forcibly upon it in other re-
fpects ; for nature, after perfecting_the formation, difpofes the enfuiag
effect according to the ftate pf the former at the beginning. Hence it
is reafonable, in thofe whoie time of conception is unknown, that the
configurations of the fiars formed at their birth, fhould ~e fignificative ;
not that it wholly contains an effective power, but becaufe it neceffarily
hath a power by nature fimilar to the effective. But i't is always bell:, if
the time of conception can be had, to compare it with the time of birth;
for the time 6f conception fhews what £hall happen t~ the infant while in
·the \'I'Omb; as whetherit £hall be firong or weak, firm or infirm, perfect or
imperfect, male~r female, fingle or twins ; or whether it fhall arrive to
the full and perfect time of birth. But the occurrencesoflifeafterbirth
·are to be coniidered from the pofi tion of the heavens at the birth only.
2 Now
Digitized by G ogIe
OF ·ASTROLOGY,.·
Now, fince nothing can be prediaed in aftrology without this funda-
mental guide, namely, the radix, or lrue time of birth, Vi:\rious me-
thods ·bave been invented, in 'di1feretrt ages, for the purpofe -ef af~rtain­
ing this point with precifion, after the eftimate or fuppofed time is
given. And this is termed the retlification of nativities, becaufe the
time ufually hoted down by patents or midwives is feldom correCt, either
through inattention, or errors in clocks; but, by thefe rules, the diffe-
rence between the eftimate or fuppofed tinre, and the ·real, is difcovered
and corrected'. This reCtification -is done ·by v:trious ways; firft, by
the Trutine of Hermes; fecondly, 'by the Animoder of Ptolomy; and,
third~y, by accidents of the native's iife, whi·ch are alfo fivefold; firft,
according to Argot ; fecondly, accotding to Kepler; thirdly, according
to Motinus; fourthly, by the luminaries; and fifthly, by a new and
.more :correCl methoa.
By the Trutine of Hermes, ereCt the .figure to the eftimate time of
birth, and retl:ify the Moon's place thereto; then take her difl:ance from
the afcendant, i'f fhe .be under the earth ; or from the Jeventb houfe, if
above the earth, ·by fubtraaing the angles from the Moon's place; .
adding thereto the three hundred and fixty degrees of the zodiac, if fub- '
tratiion cannot pe made Without: then with the remainder enter the fol-
lowing table under lh:e column of Moon's diftance, 'and-even,with ir, in the
fecond -column, if the birth was in February ; in the third column, if in
January or December ; in the fourth column, if in April or September;
or in the fifth column, if in March, May, June, July, Auguft, onober,
.or November; will be found an equation of days to be added ·to, or fub-
tracted from, the day of birth, according to the letters A or· S, at the
tap of each refpeCtive column, whofe fUIU ·or difference gives the day of
the month in the month of c,onception ; always ·obferving, that, if the
year of birth be a leap-year, one day more ~uft be added.
Digitized by Coogle
~4a1 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
THE T A B L E.
D <Hfi
~/__:_: D difij
- - - --
AlA A A A A
I -- ol--:-- - -
0 0 3 2 1 01 6 1 2 3
0 13 2 I s
~I
5 17 I 2 3 4
. 0 26 1 s I • 5 4 2 3 4 5
..c ..c
.... - Sf!-;--;~
- - -
... I
ell
l 9 4 21 3 4 5 6
~
~
1 21 1 2 3 4 ~ 4 9 4 s 6 7
2 4 2 3 4 5 ~ 3 26 5 6 7 8
"- 2 17 3 4 s 6 ~ 3 13 6 7 8 9
~ I ~
~
----. ~ - 1 -
;::s - -
c::: 3 0 4 5 6 1 I c: 3 0 7 8 9 10
0
3 13 5 6 7 8 . 8 2 17 8 10
0 9 II
~ 3 26 6 7 8 9 \:g 2 4 9 10 11 12
~
4 9 7 8 9 10 ~ r 21 10 II 12 13
~ ._.._--- ~ . - 't:::t
- - - -
l
9i
- 4 21 8 9 10 I 1 1 li 12 lJ 14
5 4 9 10 11 12, 0 26 12 13 14 1.,
s 17 10 II 12 13 0 IJ lJ 14 15 16
6 0 l1 12 13 14 0 0 I4 IS 16 17
If the birth was in January, the month of conception was April; if
February, the month of conception was May; if March, June; if
April, July; if May, Augull:; if June, September; if July, October;
if Auguft, November ; if September, December; if October, January;
if November, February ; and, if December, March. Then bring the
Moon's place, the day of conception, to the fign, degree, and minute,
afcending, at the efiimate time, for the true time of conception. Or
thus: fubtraet the right afcenfion of the Sun at the efiimate time of con-
ception, from the right afcenfion at the eftimate time of birth, (taken in
the Table of Houfes right againft the Moon's place, under the afcendant,
adding the three hundred and fixty degrees of the zodiac, as before, if
fubtraetion cannot otherwife ·be made;) the remainder, -converted into
time, is the true hour and minute of conception. The degree and mi-
nute of the fign in which the Moon was pofited at conception is the
true degree and minute afcending at birth, accof(ding to the Trutine of
Hermes.
To
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S· T R 0 ~ 0 G Y.
To re<!Hfy by the Animoder of Ptolomy, ereCl: the figure as near as
poffible to the' eftirnate time of birth, and confider in what fign, and in
what degree of that fign, the new Moon happened that laft preceded the
birth ; or, if a full Moon more nearly preceded the time of birth than a
new, then note the degree of the fign wherein either of the luminaries
were pofited that were above the earth ; but, if one of the luminaries be
-exaftly riling, and the ot-her fetting, prefer that which is rifing. Th~n
ohferve which of the planets hath moft dignities by triplicity, houfe, ex-
altation, term, or configuration, in :the· degree of fuch preceding new
Moon, or in the degree of the luminary above· the earth, or that afcends
at fuch preceding full Moon; and alfo what fign and degree then afcend
upon the horizon, or that culminate or poffefs the cufp of the tenth
houfe; and .if the degree of the plariet, dignified as above, be fituated
nearer the degree afctnding than to the de~ree culminating, place the
' fame degree in number of the fign ·afcendmg upon the cufp of the
afcendant that fuch ruling planet poife1fed of the fign he was in. But,
on·the contrary, if the planet be nearer the degree on the cufp of the
tenth houfe or medium treli than to the afcendant, then the degreo .
culminating, or poffi:ffing the cufp of the midheaven, muft be made
the fame with the degree the faid planet was in; and fo, according to
the fign and degree · thus afcertained, muft the other houfes of the
figure be varied ; and thi~ ,.m be the true time of the native·s birth.
But, if it fhould happen that two planets bawe equal dignities in the
degrees aforefaid, prefer that which is pofited the neareR: to the afcen..
dant. Ptolemy further obferves, that what fign the Moon is in ·at the
time of birth is the very fign which afcertded at the conception ; and
again, whatever fign the Moon is in at conception, that, or the oppofite,.
will be the fign afcending at birth.
. . .
To reaify by accidents, according to the metho·d of Argot, fl:t the
fcheciie exactly tf,> the eftirnate time, and draw it into a fpecolum; then
run down the columns in the fpeculum belonging to the afcendant and
medium cceli, confidering what direCtions might mofi probably fignify
the acCidents given, obfetving the afcendant for accidents befalling the
body ; the mediur:n creU for things .relating to credit or reputation, as
trade·, honour, difhonour, preferment, &c. and convert the time of the
acdde.nt intO' an ardi o'f direttion, by Naibod·s meafure of time; and then,
finding the true, right, or oblique, afcenlion of the protniffor with lati..
tude, if he hath any, fr9m which fubtraeting the arch of direction, the
remainder will be the right afcenfion of the medium creli, or oblique
afccnfioA of the afcendant. If it be the oblique a(cenfio'n of the afct:n
~ant, fubtrac't n'inety 'degrees Jrom it, the remainder will be the righ
No. 21. 5 K afcenuo·
Digitized by Coogle
424 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
afcenlion of ihe medium creli corrected, between which and the right
afcenfion of the medium creli of the fuppofed time take the difference ;.
which add or fubtract to or from the fuppofed time, according as the rig~t
afcenfion of the medium creli did increafe or decreafe, and the fum or
difference is the true time of birth required.
Secondly, according to Kepler, gathel," a table of the Sun's place for
eighty, ninety, or one hundred, days, more or'lefs, immediately fucceed-
iog the day of birth; then, having the time of the accident,. number. (o
- many days of the Sun's motion as there were years elapfed from tpe
birth, making proportion for the odd days, and find the Sun's place at
that time, with the right afcenfion thereof, which fubtract from the
oblique afcenfion· of the promifi"or denoting the accident, added to two.
hundred and feventy degrees, the remainder is the right afcenfion of time
corrected; where note, that, having fet the figure· to the eftimate time,
calculate th~ Sun's place thereto, and find the difference between that
and his pJace.at noon the day of birth; which; if it exce~ds his place of
birth, fubtract ·the aforefaid difference from his place at noon, agreeing
with that day -lignifying the number of years in which the .accident
happened; but, if it be lefs, add; fo !hall the differen~e or fuill be the
Sun's direction for years coinplete; then, for the odd days of the acci-
dent, if any be, find the Sun's diurnal motion, in the {aid collection,.
againft the day lignifying the faid number of years, and fay, as three
hundred and fixty-five days .fix hours are to the Sun's diurnal motion,
io are the faid odd days to the odd minutes, which are to be added to the
Sun's direction aforefaid, which fum is the Sun's trae place at the time
of birth. But, to rectify it by an accident compared with the medium
cceli, fubtract the right afcenfion of the Sun, found by the former rule
for the year and day of the accident, from the right afcenfion of the pro-
mi.ifor, (by adding three hundred and fixty degrees, if fubtraction cannot
be made without,.) and the remainder is the right afcenfion of time cor-
rected. ·
Thirdly, according to Morinus, to rectify the a{cendant or medium
cceJi by a direction to the conjunction or oppofition of the promi1for of
any accident is exactly the fame with Argol; but, if it be to the textile.
quartile,. or trine, of any fuch promi1for, firfi find their latitude, and
then in all refpccts follow t,he fame method as is above siven in· the di-
rectionS' of Argol.
To rectify by the luminaries,-proceed as follows: If no direction of
either angles. will anfwer to the accident given. and it be eminent.
confider
-I
Digitized by Coogle
..
· 0 F AS T R 0 L 0 0 Y. 425
confider the pofition of the luminaries, and fee what direClion of either
of them might moft probably fignify the fame; which done, find the
luminaries pole of pofition exaaJy for its place in the efiimate figure,
under which pole directthe faid luminary to the faid probable promi1for,
and find tile difference between that and the time of the accident convert-
ed into an arch of .direction; then make a fecond fuppofition, at the
pole of pofition, working as before; and, noting the difference between
the arches of the two direCtions, fay, as .the difference of thefe two arches
is to the difference in the poles of pofition, fo is the firfi aforefaid dif-
ference to the difference between the firft fuppofed pole of pofitiotl
and the true pole of the luminary propofed; but it is nece1fary here,
that the eftimate time be given pretty exaCt. Thus, having found the
true pole of pofition, it gives the true oblique afcenfion or defcenfion of
the luminaries, with its difiance from the meridian ; by which may be
found the medium cceli correCt, and thereby the true time o.f birth.
Betides· thefe, there are feveral new methods of rectifying nativities-
by accidents. For infiance, fet the figure to the efiimate time, and
draw a fpeculum ·thereto·; in which, betides the afpeets -of the planets,
infert alfo the afpects which the afcendant and medium c<rli make with
every fign; this done, confider what promi~ors occur- to a conjunttion,
fextile, quartile, trine, or oppofiti~n, of the afcendant or medium c<rli,
and for every year account one day in ~he Ephemeris to the year current
in which the accident happened, find that promi1for's place (in that
day adhering to the year current) for the efiimate time of birth ;
· faying, as twenty-four hours is to the planet's diurnal mo~ion, fo are
the hours and minutes elapfed from noon to the minutes to be added or
fubtracted to or from the planet's place at noon that day according as
the faid planet was either direCt or retrograde; then, lafily, as three hun-
dred and fixty-five days fix hours are to that" promi1for's diurnal motion;
fo is the number of days elapfed from the birth (at the termination of
which the acciden~ fell out) to tne minutes to be again added or·fub-
tracted to or from the aforefaid place of the faid promi1for~ as he was
dirc:a or retrograde; to which very degree and minute the afcendant or
medium. creli mufi: be brought. But, if there be no direction of the
afcendant or medium creli to fignify that accident, confider what other
fignificator~ being direCted to any likely promi1for, might etfc:Cl: the
fame; and, in the Ephemeris, againft that day fignifying the number of
the years current, for the eftimate time of birth find the place of the faid
promi1for; then fay, as three hundred and fixty-five days fix hours are
to twenty-four hours, {o are the days elapfed (in which the accident
happened from the birth-day) to their proportioned part: fecondJy, n
twenty-four
Digitized by Coogle
....... .
..
4~6 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
twenty-four hours are to the fignificator's diurnal motion, fo is the afore·
f,,id proportional part to the minutes and feconds, which are to be fub-
dueted out of the place of the aforefaid promitfor; and the remainder is
the exaa place of the faid fignificator at the true time of birth. .In this
c.1ft! it will be neceffary to have the eftimate tim'e very near, and that
the Sun, Venus, Mercury, or the Moon, be fignificators; and Saturn,
Jupiter, or Mars, or their afpects, promiffors; otherwife, if the more
.weighty planets be fignificators, take the diurnal rnotion of the promiffor
and work as before; fubdutting thefe minutes and feconds from the
fignificator, and the remainder is the exact place of the promiffor at the
true time of birth. If yet no direCtion appears, which may fignify the
given accident, confider the Moon's direCtions on the right-hand page of.
the Ephemeris, againft the day fignifying the year current in whicli the
accident happened; and, allowing tWo hours for a tnonth, fubtract the
days elapfed from the birth-day frotn the hours and minutes, adhering
to the lunar afpect, and the remainder will be the hour and •minute of
birth corrected. The fame obfervation likewife holds good with, refpect
to the mutual afpects. ·
But the lhorteft, eafieft, and moft fimple, way of rectifying a nativity,
tlnd which includes all the perfections of the foregoing, provided the
efl:imate time does not exceed two hours of the real, is as follows.
HavingereCted the figure to the efiimate time, obferve whether either of the
luminaries be pofited in the centre of any one of the three prime angles,
namely, the afcendant, medium c~li,. or feventh ·houfe, or near them;
.and, if fo, bring either of them to the cufp o( the angle, and the
degree and minute they were in is the true time of birth. But, if '
neither of thefe are found 'thus centrically polite'd, not near the cufps of
either of thole anglc!s, then bring them to a right parallel from angles,
and that will be the true time. · lf their pofitions will fiO't admit of
this, obferve the tWo benefic planets Jtipiter and Venus, and note
whether either of them are fituated as above fpecitied, namely, in the
centre of the angles, or in a right parallel with either of the luminaries,
that is to fay, with the Sun by day, or tbe Mo6n by night;· and either
of thefe .brought to the cufps as before, will give the true tilrie of
birth. So likewife either of the malefic planets Saturn and M~rs, if
found pofit~d in the centre of the angles, or near their cofps, or in
parallel .to either of the luminaries as above, will be the prorogator of
life, and likewife lhew the true time of bit!h ; ·but thefe latt pofttions
.are rarely if ever fourrd in the. fchemes of grown petfon's ·nativities•
.becaufe their influences, if not corrected by the rays of bcnevoient
3 · · · · Jbts•
Digitized by.Google
o· F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
ftars, ar~ of (o deftrucHve a tendency, that they generally cut off life
il) a 1hort time, ~ither in infancy-, ·o·r at lea£1: in the prft ftage of life.
. . . .
Now, having brc:tught a nativity frQm its eftimative or fuppofed tim-e
to ~hat of the re;<~J, we ~re next to· confider its proper and contingent .
pa.rts and iignifications, fo far· as they relate to accidents before birth,·and
to thofe .afte.r th~ _fubject comes into the world; as alfo to parents;
brethren, and relations, of the native. ·The particular ·confiderations
before birth relate to fex, as whether the infant be male or female;
and _
like.w.ife rp ~':lr;n.~r, ::~.s whether there b.e tw.it:ls or nph The cau(es
of defo~~_ity, <;>f nl~~(l~rs, and of thofe which pe_rHh in the womb f~r·
w~nt 9f nou~i(h,mt:nt, arc al(o included in this _
part of the do¢trine of
na_tiv.~tles. .But .t~e particular {ubje~s .o,f ,en'jluiry af!.er bi!th relate t.o
~J:l~ ,l~n.gt~ ~f ,l,1.fe ~nd .f~rm of the body; to bodtly d1feafes, ~nd
accide,nttll hw:ts .!lt:l9 Q~~~i.lhe:s of the n:te.m,l;>ers ; to _the faculties of the
J;Dind and me.n~l ~1feCli9ns. They .li~ewjfe i'nclude th~ future fortune
9f th~ ,~a~ive, as w~ll in .po1feffiops as ~n d.ign~ties; and alfo in the
qu~lity ofh;is actions. T.~n co~cerning marriage -~d procr~ation; the
~aq~ony _
qf ,friends, ~nd an.im9fi_
ty of .enemies; n~xt .of travelling,
and, Jafrly, of .death.~Bnt the confider:a~iqn coocern~ng death is natu··
r~lly join~d to that- .which relates to the fpac~ ~f life, _fin~e it 1hews the
'!lualityand 1119~e. 9.(its tennin~tion. ·
It ·may .nat~rally be atked, .how .thefe even~s are fev~raUy aqd r.efpec-
tively_
drftingqithed_
? ~oexplam this, let it be ,alw~ys remembered, tbat,
for any particul~r _ev~nt, we are 'P.t:efer to fuch p~culiar place in the
zopi,ac as is prpper, ~9 th,~t fpecies .of ac~ion .in..the _
geniture concern-
iqg .which we are ~ppqt :to. enquire. A~d, what~ver tlar i.s found to
pave dop1inion in f,uch .place,, ejtber J?y .~riplicity, : hou(e, exa1~ation,
term, . Pr! CQrtfi,gpr.a~jon, (uch ftadhall h.a~e clo~i.ni9n of the 'event•.But,
if: ~~P or .mor.e fl:ars)hiill be fo_
un.d in thefe feveral pofit_
iqns, t~en tqat
frar which has familiarity by moft 'ways, namely, ~hat has rhe majority
·of dignities, 1ha11 be taken as ruler of the. event, ·and 1haU a1fum·e the
_
d9Jni,nion .acc;Qrdi"gly. ~.he. quality of.the event is always. kno)VnJJ:om
the.na~ure. pf tbefe ruling_~ars, .ad9ed to t_~at of ~he fi_gns jn which thofc
flars are pofited, and t.be .familiarities they h~ve with the other fi~nifi­
cant ,parts ~f t.~e Qc;;IY.fJlS• . ·The extent an.d iy.1pp~ranpe of .Jhe.event is
~n.own from the .lordipjps.and dominio~s 9f. t.h~fe r.uling .fi~rs, accor~'ng
~o their.ftrength or Wef~kp~fs in_r~fp~ct., of~heir afpects in the .wo~ld aQd
the -~genJt~re. ~bey .a,e ftrQng..m refpe~t of the world, .when th~y are
i~ J>!oper .p.l;I~~~~ ..9~ 9z:ieo~aJ, 9r au.gQ1ent~d_ i..and)n .refp~ct'~f. ~he_ge•
·AUture, when they make the1r tranij,t& on the angles, or fuccedent houfes;
No. 21. .s L but
Digitized by Coogle
428 A N I L L U $ T R- A ·T I 0 N
but particularly when they occupy the cu(ps of the afcendan_t or mid..
he_
aven; And they are deemed weak in rcfpect of the world, when they
are in occidental places, and flow, retrograde, and diminilhing their
courfes; but weak 'in refpect of the geniture, when they are in cadent
houfes, or falling from the angles. The general time of the event is
known from thefe ruling ftars being orientally ·o.r ocCidcntally pofited in
refpect of the Sun and th::: hoJofcope, and from their being in the angl~s ·
or fuccedent houfe:s; for, when they are matutine or angular, they are
quick ; but, when occidental or vefpertine, flow. · ·
/ Thefe things being pre~1ifed, it follows that the firft. confid.eration upoO:
;/ the face of a geniture is that which relates to the parents of. the .native•.
/ The Sun, therefore, and Saturn, repref'!rit the. perfon of the father; and
/ the Moon and Venus that of the. mother; and, as thefe are foun4
I .•
afflicted among themfel~es, or othcrwife~ fo we und~rftand the accidents.
appertaining to parer.ts will be. The (tars that are configurated with
the luminaries ihe.w what relates to t~eir fortunes and potfefliohs; for, if
they are fur rounded by the, beoefics, and by .fuch as are. of the fame
nature, and in the fan_
le figos; or .the fucceeding, their fortunes .will be .
illuftrious and fplendid; pa~ticularly if the Sun be configurated with
oriental ftars, or the Moon by occidental. If Saturn and Veri us.be ori~
entally pofited, or angular, they forelhew happinefs according to the par-
ticular circumilance~ of each parent. If the luminaries are void ofcourft,
and in no good afpect with the fortunate ftars, a low condition, or an
ignoble life, is prenoted: but, if the luminaries are varioufiy configu-
rated with good and evil .ftars, a mediocrity and in'equality in the fortunes
of the parents is. thereby demonftrated; as when . Mars afcends to the
Sun, or Saturn to the Moon, and the benefics in different conditions.
Again, if the part of fortune in the nativity is found in a good pofition,
with the ftars configurated with the Sun and Moon, the. affairs of the
parents will be profperous; but, if it be difcordant, and fituated in a bad
place of the figure, with mal~fic ftars, their concerns will turn out inju-
rious and unprofitabl~. ·
The length and thortne'fs of life mull: be confidered from other confi-
guratioos. If Jupiter or Ve,nus are any way joined in afpect with the Sun
or Saturn, or if Saturn hath an harmonizing configuration with the Sun,
that is, if they behold each other by a fextile or tri,ne, and ftrongly dig-
nified in other refpects, they promife long life to the father. But if
thefe pofitions are found weak, with Mars dignified above the Suo, and
Saturn in quartile or oppofition, the father. will be taken off in the early
part of his life. The diftinctions which relate to the mother are thefe.
3 If
Digitized by Coogle
., 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y•
If Jupiter is configurated to the Moon or Venus, or Venus alone beholds
the Moon by a fextile or trine afpett, the mother will enjoy health and
longevity; but, if Mars be pofited · in any of the angular or fucceedent
houfes, beholding the Moon or Venus with a quartile or oppofition; or
if Saturn is thus configurated with the 1\ioon, flow in motion, and de-
clining from angles ; they induce the direCt contrary effeCts, and pro-
claim a difeafed and iliort ·life to the mother. Thus from the nativity of
a child may the principJl concerns of the father and mother be fought
out, and alcertained; and fuch is the fympathy exilling by this bond of
nature and confanguinity, that little difference will be found, if com-
pared with the proper nativity of each parent•.
· But, to give judgment in fuch cafes with corre8nefs, {epar~te fchemes
muft be eretted for the father and mother, by the following rule. In·
the figure ereHed for the f:.ther, if the nativity be diurnal,, note the
degree in which the Sun is pofited in the child's nativity, and make that ,
the degree afcending upon the horotcope for the father; and conforma-
ble to that order the cufps of all the other houfes, by the rules hereto-•
fore laid down. If the figure be erected for the mother, then take the
degree of Venus, inllead of the Sun, and proceed in all other refpeets
the fame. But, if the nativity be nocturnal, take the degree of Saturn ·for
the filther, and that of the Moon for the mother. And in all thefe cafes
it muft be obferved, that the nativity .of the firft-born is to be pre-·
ferrc:d, then that of the feconc!, and fo on. And that whatever is pre-
noted in relation to the parents from thefe figures, is only futh as lhall
happen to them after the birth of the child, and not to any thing before.
The time in which any or each of ' thefe events will happen, is to be
fought out by ·the archs of direHion, or difiances of that llar which hath
the dominion in refpeCt of .the Sun and the angles of ,the world; and
this I thall make perfeCtly eafy to the meaneft underfianding, when I
come to treat of directions in general.
Now the next confideration in the native's geniture is the place of
brethren, and this ~s taken from the fign on the mid-heaven, and the
maternal place, which is the pofition of Venus by day, and ~he_ Moon by
nighr; for, as this can only relate to children born .of the fame mother,
this flgn, ar.d that. which fucceeds it, being maternal, naturally confii-
tutes the place of brethren. This place, therefore, being configurated by
benevolent ftars, denote$ plenty of brethren, becaufe the increafe of bro-
thers and .fillers happens according to the multitude of ftars, ancj from
their being fituated in double-bodied figns, or in thofe of one form.-
But, if the malefics have fuperiority in number or power, or are advede
by
Digitized by Coogle
41() ' A N l ·L ·L U S T R A T I 0 N
by oppofiti~n, pauc!tY of brethren will happe.n, particularly i{ ~nbe..
nign ftars tucumfcnbe the Sun. If the contranety of afpects be m an-
guhir ht>uf-es~ · efpecia11y in the afcendant, Satur.n ~iH procure thofe that
are firft nour'rtbed, and firft born.; and Mars wtU mduce to fewnefs and
de·ath. Moreover, if the 1hrs whi~h give brethren a-re well-affected ac-
coralng to mundane fitu'ations, the ge~ral fortu.nes of the h1-ethren will
be glorious an'd famous; but mean ~nd ?hfcu-re tf the contrary pofitions
happ-eb. If the maldics be fu'penor m n'Umbe-r ~nd ftreogth to the
fl:ars which git?e btetbten, their conftitutioos wilt be puny, and tlteir
IWes 'iliort.
And here alfo we may obferve, that from the geniture of one brother
the princ~pal incidents of ~~e life of another may be d~fcov.c.red, .by (l()n-
ftituting the p\ace of the g1-ven_
_
planet·as an horofcape, that ts, the 1
plao.et
which -
has prino~pa~ rule in the bo~fe o~ brethr~- whcth.er by day .or
night. The method is ·to place .thrs ruhng planet, wlth the fame de..
grce be is found in! upon the .afc~ndant, furni_lhing the cufps of .all the
ot·her houfes by ~h1S fianda~d, as ·before fiated m the cafe of .parent&. .It
mU-ft however always be reme~:bered, that. mafculine ftar·s :pr~d.uce
males, and feminine females. Alfo if the fiars which .denote br.ethren, .and
that ·whi<?h has nile in the houfe of brethren, ~gree ~y any harmonious
configuration, they will be well-affected towards each other, and -live ,in
friendlhip .and concord; buc, if thefe ftars are.found in contrars :pofi-
tions, ·and in figns inconj.unct, enmi~y and hate .w.ilLmark their ..condw:.t
toWBrds Cl!Ch other.
'The .foregoing fpaculation~ are• deduced :fr.0m an :inft:filigation of· the
j;ofitioo of tbe heavens at -tbe time of bi.rth:; but, :in.-omer·to•know whe-
tber' the -infant be· male .or .female, .dunng d~ ftatc :of p=gnaocy, ;the
· time <>·f·tenc~ptioh•onlymuft:be:confi'den:d. -For~this purpote, we:muft
partieu1arly- oofe'rte.the .pofition:of .both.the.lunii~~ies:.in··refpcct. to tae
horofcope at the ume of concept1on, tqgether .wuh :tbe:fituatroos:of
all the ftars which have ~-regard to .t~em J and whether the ruling ftars
are oonftituted 0f:1Htiafctalrm:.:Ur femulmcmature. :Fl»r.tbe production. of
males ·.Snd fe-malos :is- atoO'C!>rding to .the diftinaion :of m:tfc:ulinc..and:fc-.
minine .ilars, 7which :X. ha·~: already: fuewn :proceeds from thc:nature of .
the .figas in; which ·.they are:p~ficed, ~nd from their mutual .and mundane
refpect; for, -bcing-otiental; .the:y are mafculine.;: but, occidental, femi-
nine. The: fame likew-i'feuin ·rcfpect:co· the Sun;: for, beiogoriental, they
are referred to the m~e; ·and,:-otddental,·.co.tbefemale. 'l':herefore thole
whjch have the .greatt1ft:powerin tbtf~ refpctts at the. time of conception
-will give fufficlofit :~rouJU!s £to ·:COD3CC\~rc !.Qt meifu;:of. the infant:for
montbs:;brfore·1t ·is.-iJOI!n.
So
-. Digitized by Coogle
·8o Hkewl(e the (arne confiderations hold good, in fome refpeet:s, con-
cerning twins, or more J for herein we are principally to regard the two
luminaries, and the afcendant. For it happens through the mixtures ,
which are occafioned when thefe potfefs bicorporal figns, or when the
Toling planets are fituated in them, and many prolific ftars call their rays
co the fame, that it will be a plural conception. The number then
generated is known from the ftar which induces the propriety of the
·number; but the fex is determined by the ftars configurated with the
Sunh, Mhoo
1n, ~nd ~orofco.Pe· h For.dwhe find fcon~ obfc:rvation, thdat; whhen ft.
bot t e ummanes are m t e mt - eaven, twms are procreate ; w en
Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars,. have configuration with the affigned places
in bicorporal figns, three males are generated; but three females, when
Venus, Luna, and Mercury, are confifurated in the fame manner. Saturn,
Jupiter, and Venus, ·thns difpofed, produce two males and one female; but
Venus, Luna, and Mars, two fe~ales and one male. Thefe configu..
rations but rarely happening at the time of conception, render it a kind
cf phenomenon whenever they occur; and hence we generally find the
births that follow in confequence are ranked amongft the wonders of
the day in the public prints, though the caufe has a radical foundation
in nature. And hence too it is, that, as thefe configurations are more or
·Jefs imperfeCl:ly made, fo will be the quality of the conception, either
·bringing all into life uniform and perfect at the birth, or elfe bringing
·one with good conformation, and another with puny, imperfect, or mon-
.ftrous, members.
There are alfo certain configurations of the ftars, which abfolutely pro..
duce moles or monfters in every conception that takes place under
them. Thus it happens when the luminaries decline from angles, and
fall cadent, without any kind of afpea to the afcendant, and when the
cardinal houfes are ·occupied by the malefic planets. But, to defcribe
the fpecies of unnatural birth, it is necelfary, in thefe configurations, to
obferve the place of the )aft full Moon preceding the time of conception,
together with the ruler thereof, and the lord of · the luminaries ; fur, if
the places of thefe fignificators have no familiarity with the place of the
-{aid preceding full Moon, what is then generated will be of unnatural
conformation. If the luminaries are at the fame time pofited in four..
footed figns, and the two malefic planets in angular houfes, what is
then conceived will not be ·in human thape; but, if Jupiter or Venus in-
terpofe their benevolent rays, and give teftimony to the luminaries, then
\vhat is conceived will be of human conformation, but of a fierce and
favage nature. If Mercury correfponds with the luminaries, the dif..
pofition will ·be agreeable to ·nature, hut the forr:i1 of the body will be
No. 22. 5 M unnatural;
Digitized by Coogle
43·• A N I L L U S T It A T I 0 N
unnatural; or, if the luminaries be in human figns, and the ruling planet
-difcordant, then the offspring will be of proper conformatioon, but mon-
ftrous in quality. I( one of the maldic ftars give teftimony in any of
the foregoing pofitions, what is then generated will be irrational, or of
ungovernable qualities; but, if Jupiter or Venus give teftimony, the
()ffspring will naturally poffefs the mental accomplilhments, with an her-
D1aphroditical conformation. If Mercury alone gives teftimony to the
aforefaid pofitions of the luminaries, that which is procreated will be
deaf, and perhaps dumb, though intelleaually well qualified, and in-
genious. Thefe.Jpeculations are doubtlefs abftrufe, becaufe fuch con-
figurations feldom happen, and the refult of them is very little known;
but, to confirm their effect, I have only to recommend to thofe who
have their doubts, to be guided by obfervation, and to decide by there-
fult; for, the more we enquire into the pathlefs ways of nature, the more
readily we deduce a radical caufe for all her produaions.
But here I muft not omit to remark, that the time of conception, and
that only, is to be referred to for the conformation or accidents of the
child in the womb; and the time of birth for what £hall happen after;
notwithfianding there is always fuch a concurring. agreement between
the conception and birth, that whatever is produced by the former is
in a great meafure to be difcovered from the latter, though not wholly
correCt, or to be relied upon as infallible. Thofe therefore, who are
born in their natural lhape, and afterward become crippled and lame,
even to a monftrofity, yet, fince not brought into the world with the na-
tive, they fall under the defcription of blemilhes, or .bodily infirmities,
rather than the refult of monftrous and unnatural conformations.
Diftinet from this fpecies of conception, is that which, though per-
feCtly natural and well conformed, yet is void of ftamina, and hence -
termed an embryo not nourijhed. This kind of conception happens when
one of the luminaries, in an angular pofition, is joined with a malefi~
ftar, and that luminary giver of life. So likewife, if the parallel of
longitude between the malefic planet and the luminary be partile, or
according to a figure of equal fides, and none of the fortunes correfpond-
ing, and at the fame time the lord of the luminaries be pofited in a dif-
cordant place, what is then generated cannot be nourilhed, but decays
in the womb, or expires foon after the birth. Or, if they are not equi-
laterally configurated, but the two malefic planets nearly irradiate the
·places of the luminaries, a.ffiiding both, or only one of them, no matter.
whether the malefics be fuccedent or oppofite, fo one or both of them be
in partile configuration with the lqminaries; .for whatever is born under
3 f~ch
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y.
(uch ·iniluenc~s will be of no duration, ·fince the greatncfs of the power
of the malefics will deftroy wh~t lhould necelfarily conduce to the nou--
rilhment of life.
It is particularly to be ob{erved, that Mars afllias the Sun by fue-
ceffions,.and Saturn the. Moon ; but by oppofitions the contrary hap-
pens; for in thefe the Sun is aflliaed by Sat urn, and the Moon by. Mars;
and this aflliaion is the more eminent when the malefic fiars are fignifi-
cators, and by that means become fu perior both to the luminaries and
the horofcope. From thefe obfer:vations, fubordinate effects have been
afcertained; for, when there are two oppofitions of the tnalefic fiars, and
the luminaries fituated in angles, whatever follows that conception will
be ftill-born. But ifat this time the luminaries are feparating from the
benefic planets, or are in any other afpect with them, cafting their
beams at that time in a converfe direaion, the fretus will obtain anima-
tion, and be found alive and perfect at the birth; but will live only fo
many months, days, or hours, as there are degrees, minutes, or feconds,
of the folar motion, between the beams of the Apheta and the neareft
malefic planet. But i( the malefics caft their beams to the parts preced-
ing the luminaries, and the benefics to the degrees following, what is
born will futfl!r great afflictions, and firuggle much with infirmities, but·
lhall recover and live.
And hence the confideration that naturally follows regards the dura~
tion or fpace of life, which, taking in the whole compafs of human pur-
fuits, and the duration and viciffitudes of them, doubtlefs becomes the
mofi interefiing part of the doctrine of the fiars. The mode of afcer-
taining this important point, .namely, the fpacc or duration of the na-
tive's life, is de!fined from a comparifon of the aphetic, hylegiacal, or
prorogatory, places, with the killing oranaretical places in thegenethliacal
figure, at the time of birth. The aphetic place is the fituation of the
Apheta, Hyleg, Prorogator, Significator, or giver of life, for they have
all the fame meaning; and, the anaretic place is the fituation of the
Anareta, or killing planet ; and, whenever thefe !hall meet together, or
be conjoined in a bodily afpect, the native will find a termination of life;
confequently the length of time, in which the Apheta and AnaretJ,
as pofited in each refpective figure of a nativity, will be in forming a
conjunction, or coming together in the fame point of the heavens, is the
precife length of the native's life; and this period is afcertained hy what
we term arches of direction, equated by the folar motion, and reduced
to common time. The method of afcertaining thefe aphetical and
anaretical places, of finding the arches of direction, and of reducing
them
Digitized by Coogle
./
-·.t·!~ ·A ··ft ,·11, ·L U S T lt A T J 0 N
them to the common meafure of time, lbail be copioutly ex:plafned
sfter we have taught the mode of afcertaining the particular occurrence•
of the native's life, from the face of the ho~ofcope, or genetb1iacal
figure.
Of the FORM and TEMPERATURE of the BODY.
Ifthe fpace of life appears likely to exceed childhood, we ·are .next to
confider and define the iliape and figure of the native's body, according
to the rules heretofore laid down. The parts of the body are formed
before the foul ; and, becaufe it is infinitely more grofs, hath a connate
.and almotl apparent endowment of temper. _ But the foul, not being
communicated to the body till the entire conformation thereof be wholly
perfetl:ed, ma.nifefts by degrees an aptitude proceeding from the firfi:
.cauf" but much later than thofe of the external accidents ; and -
therefore
it requires fome length of time be~ore the nature and progrefs of this
mental aptitude can be known. As to the form and temperature; of the
body, that is generally defcribed from the oriental horizon, and from
fuch of the planets as bear rule in it, or have, the dominion thereof;
'-
together with their particular and refpective configurations with the
Moon ; for according to the quality of thefe two places, and the nature of
the ruling ftars, the formative virt~e, and the temperament in each fpe..
cies, with reference to the declination of the afcending fixed ftars, is the
particular formation of bodies defined.
To what has been already faid, concernin·g the effects of each planet
refpectively, in giving fhape to fuch infants over whofe nativities they
prefide, we muft likewife add the peculiar force and operative faculty of
theluminaries, with which they may then happen to be configurated.-
If the Sun co-operates, it contributes much towards the production of a
more comely and majefiic perfonage, and of a mild and good habit ;• and
the Moon, when the withholds her defluxion, caufes a more propor-
tionate, .O.ender, and moift, temperament; but varioufly, according to the
nature and qualities of her feveral quarters. Again, if the luminaries
correfpond with oriental rays, they add to comelinefs and fiature; or, if
ftationary, they make the native firong and robuft. But, when they
occidentally concur, difproportionate formatio!ls and evil temperaments
are commonly the refult. ·
In this fpeculation, the different effects of the four quadrants are
likewife to be confidered i that from the vernal equinox to the fummer
tropic
Digitized by Coogle
. 0 ,!1 A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 4lS
trop1c gives the native an excellent complexion, comely, of a good
fi'ature, abounding with heat and moiflure. But the quadrant from the
{ummer tropic to the autumnal equinox gives but an indifferent com..
plexion, though the body is well proportioned, healthy, and vigorous,
abounding with heat and drinefs. That from the autumnal equinox to
the wineer tropic gives a fanguine complexion, with a flender, lean,
and fickly, habit, abounding with drinefs and cold. The quadrant from
the winter folflice to the fpring equinox gives a dark complexion, witn
a moderate flature, fquare and !hong, abounding with cold and moif-
ture. .This is to be underfiood in reference to the figns afcending, and
in which the Moon and other fignificators refpetlively bear rule. But
it is more particularly to be obfervc:d, that the figns which are of hu-
man form, both in the zodiac and without it, make bodies of a moll:
excellent fymmetry and proportionJ while thofe which are not of hu..
man form aCl contrariwife, deranging the proper rules of proportion,
and influencing from the properties efi"ential to an elegant fuape to that
of difproportion and deformity.
Of the radical Caufe of B L E M I S H E s- and B 0 D I L Y
DISEASES.
From a fimilar hypothefis to the above, we derive the obfervation of
external blemHhes and bodily difeafes, with all the common accidents
ofthe human frame, to which the native is expofed during the courfe of
his life. The mofl approved mode of afcertaining and diftinguilhing ·
thefe is by regarding the eaftern and weftern angles of the horizon, but
particularly the weflern, and the part preceding, which is the fixth
houfe, for that is inconjunCl with the oriental angle. Thefe angles
being properly taken, we fuould next obferve the malefic ftars, and how
they are configurated; for, if both or either of them are pofited upon tho
afcending parts of the faid angles, either bodily or by quartile or oppo-
fition, there will be external blemilhes, or bodily infirmities, infe-
parable from the perfon then born. Or, if both the luminaries, or only
one of them, be angular, as above defcribed, either in coojunCtion or
oppofition, with a malefic ftar afcending, they will produce fuch infir-
mities or blemilhes as the particular places of the horizon and figns then
afcending, and as the nature of the malefic and ill-affected ftars, lhall
refpeElively manifeft; for in this cafe, as in all fimilar ones, the degree's
of the ligna which arc upon the affiicted part of the horizon will thew
the particular part of the body wherein the infirmity is, whether it be a
blemilh or difeafe, or both; and the nature of thofc ftars will likewifc
poin't out the caufc and quality of the fymptom. ·
No. u. 5 N BlcmHhea
Digitized by Coogle
··3~ A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
·Biernilhes and bodily hurts for ·the moft .part ba'p·pcn when the m~"'
£cs are oriental; but difeafes wheri occidental. And, as their caufe is
different, fo alfo is their etfeet ; for hurt or blemilh fuffers pain only
once, and is not prolong-ed; but a difeafe frequently comes by fits, or
·continually affeCts the patient, inducing a }Qng and lingering di110Ju..
tion, or confumptive habit. Thefe are geneNll confideration-s; but the
more particular doctrine of blemithes and difeafes hath another fpecu..,
lation of figures, by which, for the moll: part, fimilar accidents folJow;
For blindnefs of one eye is indicated, when the Moon is pofited in either
of the aforementioned angles by herfelf, or at ·the precife time of be.
coming new or full; or when the is con6gurated in a quartile a(petl,
and applies to any ofthe nebulous converfions in the zodiac. The fame
misfortune happens when Saturn or Mars~ being oriental, af~e.nd .to the
Moon, pofited in an angle; but, ·whenever they are thus configurated to
both the luminaries; either in o
the fame ·fign or in the oppofite, and
orientally pofited in refpectof the Sun, but occidental in retpea: of the
Moon, they caufe blindnefs in both the ey~. Mars ufually denotes
. blindnefs by the effeets of a blow or thruft, and by lightning, burning,
&c. but, if configurated with Venus,·it generally proceeds from an ac-
cident in play or e.xercile, or from -the; (udden attack -of a1faffins or def-
peradoes.
. Saturn produces blindnefs by catarath -and colds, or by pin and web.
and by fuch like accidents; but,·ifVenus be pofued in any of the above-
mentioned angles, particululy in the weft,. configurated or joined with
· Saturn, and Mars at the fame time elevated, or in oppofition, the males
then born will be incapable of propagaticsg their fpecies, and the females
either wholly barren, or fubjeet to abortion, or to the bringing forth of
ftill-born children, or to fuch as adhere to the womb, and are obliged to
be feparated by manual operation, or brou.ght away in pieces. This rnoft
commonly happens in the figns Cancer, Virgo, and Capricorn. But if
the Moon be at the fame time in the afcendant, configurated with Mer-
cury or Saturn, and applying to Mats, what are then born will partici-
pate in the natore of both fexes, and perhaps be void of a ,natural paf..
fage. lt is Jikewife found, that, if the Sun be config~ratcd 'with Mer-
cury, and both the luminaries difpofed after a mafculine manner, the
Moon decreafing, and the malefic ftars afcendi~g in the following de-
grees, the males will be deprived of the members proper for generation.
or be irreparably blemi1hed or infufficient in them, particularly in the
fig·ns Aries, Leo, Storpio, Capricorn, and Aquaries; and the females will
he·naturally barren all their lives.
3 Impedimenta
Digitized by Coogle
O- F AS T R 0 L 0 0 Y. 437
impediments or blemHhes in the fpeech are found to ariCe from ·the
configurations of Saturn and Mercury with the Sun, in the aforefaid
angles; particularly when Mercury is pofited in the weft, and beholds
the Moon either by an oppofition or quartile afpeet. And, if thefe con~
figurations happen to be made in mute fign~, as in Cancer, Scorpio, or ·
Pifces, the impediment will prove confiderably greater. Again, if the
malefic ftars are pofited in angles, and the luminaries afcend to them
either hy conjunHion or oppofition; or if the malefics afcend to the
luminaries, and the Moon be in her nC!Jde in hurtful figns, as Aries,
Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, or Capricorn, the defeCts of the body will be
by lamenefs, gibbofity, diftortion, or luxation. .If the malefic ftars are
in conjunRion with the luminaries, thefc a-Kettions will .take plaee from
the birth ; but, if they are fituated in the mid-heaven, elevated above the
luminaries, or in oppofition to them, they will ari1e from the c,oncur...
renee of various accidents, fuch as falls, blows, wounds, and the like,
during their progrefs through life.
Blemilbes happen for the moft part when the Moon is in tropical or
equinoRial figns. In the vernal figns they are .chiefly occafioned by
morphew; in the fummer, by tetters; in the autumn, by the fcurvy;
and, in the winter, by biles and other morbid eruptions. But difeafes
mofily happen,wlien the malefic fiars are configurated in the aforefaid
angles, but contrarily as to the luminaries, viz. occidental to the Sun,
and oriental to the Moon. In thefe pofitions Sa~a induces to unufual
coldnefs in the belly and reins, and fubjecb the native to phlegmatic
humours, bloody fluxes, jaundice, and the whole train of hyfterical
affeCtions. Mars occafions melancholy, difeafes ·of the lungs, fiftulas,
Lot ulcers, and putrefactions. If Mercury co-operates with either of
thefe ungracious planets, it is for the increafe of evil, addiag frelh vio-
lence to the diforder, and perhaps fooner inducing a fatal determination.
But the properties of fomc bodily difeafes arife from.the variety of
figns.which po1fefs the foregoing.configurations upon the two ,angles.-
For infiance, Cancer, Capricorn. and Pifces, caufe difeafes from putre-
fafrion, tetters, {curvy, or k.1.ng's.evil ; but Sagittarius and Gemini by
falls, epilepfies, falling ficltnefs, and the like. If the planets are in the
latter degrees:e>fthefe6gns, they produce bodily difeafesand blemilhes in.
theextremitics, .by-reafon of lux:ations or injuries, from whence arife
clephantiafis, gouts, cramps, and rheumatic complaints. And here it
mufi: be carefully noted, ·that, if none of the benevolent planets are con..
figurated with the.ma.lcfics which:po1fefs lh~ caufe of theie yarious difor-
. den,
Digitized ~y GoogIe
438 A N I L L U S T It A T I 0 N
ders, nor to either of the luminaries in angular pofttions, then the(s
bodily difeafes will be wholly incurable, and the blemilh~s never to be
removed ; but, if the benefics potfefs a confiderable lhare in the configu...
rations which induce the caufe, or overcome the malefic rays by an equal
or fuperior power, then the difeafes will be much more moderate, and
the blemilhes not fo obvious, ifmore than barely difcernible. It muft
here, as in all other cafes of the like kind, be .obferved, that the flronger
any ruling planet is, whether benefic or ma.leftc, the more eminent and
powerful its etfeas will be; and alfo that a planet is ftronger when ori-
ental than when occidental ; wherefore a malefic planet orientally pofited
gives blemi!hes J but an occidental, dffeafes. It is likewiie to be re-
marked, that, if the pofition of the planet inducing the caufe be very
~hong, the defed: will be from the birth; but, if weak, it will arifc
from fome accidc;nt after birth.
. .
Of the natural BENT and Q.U ALITY of the MIND.
Such is the doarine of bodily accidents, as deducible from the face of
a genethliacal figure; but the qualities of the mind, as rational and
-mental, are judged of from the confi:itution of Mcrcary with regard to
different iigns and planets. That which appertains to the fenfe alone,
,or that renders it irrational, is conftdered from the more corpOt"eal fi:ate
.of the luminaries; that is, of the Moon and ftars configurated by fepa-
r~tion or application. But,. fince the aaimal inclination is various, this.
{peculation is contemplated from many and divers obfervations, accord-
ing to the diverfity of figns -which contain Mercury and the Moon, or
the ruling fi:ars which have dominion in them, and that confer their in-
fluences to the temper and quality of the mind; together with the con-
figurations of thofe fiars which have refped: to the Sun and the angles
confidered as to the .proper and difiina nature with which each of
1hem ad: upon the mental motions of each individual. It is there-
fore generally tound that tropical figns render the native's mind highly
ingenious, full of invention, eager in the purfuit of moral and political
knowledge, and of great fortitude and perfeverance. Double-bodied
ligns agitate ·the mind with a variety of whimfical and very ufelefs pur-
fuits, _
lead the tongue to loquacious habits, and induce to negligence and
folly. Fixed figns fortify the mind with prudence and virtue, and give
a bias to ceconomy, chaftity, and temperance. Again, oriental confi-
gurations produce mental qualities of a ftrong and ingenious nature', free,
open, and undiffembled, quick of apprehenfion, conA:ant, judicious,
benevolent, and chafte s but the occidental ones act upqn the mind
in
DigitizedbyGO gle
·. o J1 · A·s-T·;.R. :0 ..~ Q:G Yt·I ~. c1J.9
·jn I Yeiyl)ppdite manner, ·indining .,~iare.to ~jaQ4 . intem•
.poruce, ,aftd impliriag.the:intell~ by a:n~tUTplly vici~Aiwo~t;p~. .
li.is likowife a· juft abfc~v-'i~n·,·that if.t~ tia~s ~~i~~.~~~ 4~tPipiop
ue poftted in good placet of ~c figure, &Sld ~U ·~OD~r~, t~)' .r~*
·tho mcnt$tlendewmonu.exquafitcly, perfeCt, and af.lP~e W. ~ gcqeral ~
fortune. ~his ·it··moll: reillarkablf ·d>vious. in ..tllqfp Jf,Dit.ure• wllicJt
have Metc~ry welt conngufl.atcd, and joined wi•• Jhe feP.~r•ti;q~ qr IJl.-
.plication of the Moe»n.· ·Bqt, if. Mercury and tl:le Moon are .J)Ot thqs
ellfpofi1d, or are aftlit\ed by the evil raye Qf tho malefic•, they will cvep
·then impr4nt tbe quality of their natures upon the (oul, ~q.gh n~t..(o
· fbo~gly, bat in .~ .)efs . olwious aod ·more ~bicqr~ degc;oe J .~ot tcncij~
·: f~ mu~h ·.te ~Qd fortune:and a;vtltC)emcnt, n• the to~41WQ CfOllCC(~s _qf
ltfe·. .Helite the- ·pr.ctpe~~ty of ·the ruling pla~t, .whedJe~. &oo4 or.. evij,
·infiJls.lt.a ewn nature into the aniaaal fpir.it, with a powtr aqd energy
.equal to ita pNdomioancy in the hcavcDa at the hoqr oi birth • an4 ·this
eDOrgy lt ·elther fi:ren!t~«d or.dimiaHhcd, ~cprdi.QJ .tot.~ force and
a&i0n of f.oboromuc!4t0ftfi~urati0Ds, ,; fo~ .tll~fe- wllo, ·by .~e~qn.o! ftr~g
·maleflc ~Y~• a~ pl'Qn4 t~vaolcaoc md iDJ ufti~e, hllv.e-qot. ~r V1C40~S lll·
' eUnat·ione bir.Hlered, uniC{s tbcfe evil rays are ()ppQfed. by f~JllC contrazy-
•cWca ; but, if a contrary afpett oppo-'ea this f"nili~fity <>f tbc malefic,..
. the eviJ inclinatioa is then. proportionably corre&ed, and. ~be mind i•
moPe cafily brought to a proper fe.Dfc of its intemperate plJrfuits. ~y
· the' fame rule, -thef~ who aro good and juft, bC!QI\qfe "orQ under a fami-
.Jiarily of bcnc.fk ftare; wiUingly' and chcarf"lly pur(~c, a. ~ifc <?tflftti..
.. tude an.d virtue- J and, being oaturilly fortunate, as wc.llaa prudent. their
· undertakings generaUy .prove advantageous and profitable; but,.if a con-
trary afpetl: oppowa this happy famUiari~ of tbc; bone~c~.
• either a lcfa
· exemplary condua, or a ~e. unprofitable purfQit.of W()rldly concerns,
· it fure to mark tho charadcr of the natiYQ thtoqg'- 'll the ,
c;ij.ffi:rqtt.
· ftagoa ef his life. . . .
Thus far we ha.e con.fiderod the inftucncee of Mcrcuty and the Moon
upoa the mind of man. ·i& .a general ·way, uaconnQC\e.d with the ope-
ration or e1fed: ofany particular planet, w.hich may happen to a1fu.me the
dc;>minion, and thereby imprint its own peculiar influences upon the
mental fac.\lhiea, in proportio!l to its fuperi01~t>: o.ver t~e other ·plaD:ets.
· Let us BOW turn ·oul' oblervat10n to that pro<hglous van,ety of aifcchqns
of the animal or intellc~ual part of man, which :each d.iftinel pll\ne·t is
feu~d · te produce, w·llen they alone goyern the min4 •t 'be l~m~. pf
l»irth. · · (
No. 22. s:o · Sa.tura
Digitized by Coogle
.440 A N.. I L L U S :T lt A ·T I 0 ' N
Saturn having alone the dominion of the mental faculties, and rulinr
· Mercury and the Moon, ifhe·be eligibly fituated in refpea ofthc world ·
and the angles, will induce tile native to an imperious and covetous
difpofition, remarkably fordid, felf-fufficicnt, and envious J but, if he
be but indifferently pofited in rcfpeB: to the angles and the world, he
difpofcs the mind to treacherous inclinations, fraught with fupcrftition,
cowardice, and meannefs. If he is fooad in a concordant familiarity
--with·Jupiter, arid both in good·pofitions of the figure, they qualify the
mind with better inclinations, and difpofe it to ach of benevolence,
'prudence, and magnanimity; but, if they are configurated in evil placet
of the figure, they work a c~ntrar:y effea, difp~fing the mind to turbu-
:lence and cruelty. and to vanous aas ofhypocnfy and fraud. .If Saturn
'be in good'afpeet with Mars, and well pofitcd in the figure, he difpofcs
·the inclination to great and arduous undertakings, remarkable for in..
trepidity and ·courage in war, and for a watchful, laborious, infiexible,
and collefled, mjnd, though much difpofed 'to aCts of violence, tyranny,
·and oppreffioiJ ; but, if they arc found in bad pofitioos of the figure, they
produce·a mind given up to every fpecics of fraud and impofition, and
-wholly abandoned to ·impiety and wickednefa. If united to Venus, iA
.elevated pofitions, he renders the mind libidinous a)id luftfpl, given to
diffipation and intemp~rance, but fubjeet to fufpicion and jealoufy in
·refpea ofwomen; but. if unhappily difpofed in the houfes of the figure,
he will induce the mind to the moft filthy uncleannefs, and to other atts
·of the bafeC. abd moft-roproachful k'ind. IfSaturn bath familiarhy with
- Metcury, in a good :pofition, he addiCls the·.mind to the fober ftudy of
·'thci polite ·arts, or bends the inclination to the purfuit of fQme particular
improvement or ·new difcovery in the {ciences; and in .general r:enders
the difpofition fedate, careful, and induftrious ; ·but, if th~y be c:onfi-
. gurated with each other in evil places, they incline to ' trca~h.etj and
· unfaithfulnefs; difpofe the mind to the recollectiQo of paft injuries, and
.urge to malice and premeditated revenge. This variety of mental af-
fections chiefly proceeds from the influences of Saturn, but they arc
moderated, and differently difpofed, according tp the natur.c and force
of thofe·rays, ·which, as we have feen, are. r~fpec:;tively contributed by
t,be pre~ence of' other planets. ·
• • • # ' • l .
· Jupiter having alone the dominion of the mind, and being well potited
in the figure, influences the animal foul to the moft noble and exalted
ideas of honoM and rectitude, difpofing to magn~nimity in the c~ufc of
·morality and virtue, and leading the . o~rative facu~tic~ to cv.ery p~aife­
worthyact of generofity and benevolence, but, if Jupiter is pofited in any
.eifcordaat part of the figure, his influences have lefs etfect ; for, though
l · they
Digitized by Coogle
·0-F A S- T R 0 L 0 G Y.
they. imprint the fame nat\8-al impu1le upon the mind, leading to all good
and moral:purfuits,. yet it is in a much more faint and obfcure manner,
being accompanied with a great degree of indolence and inaaivity. If'
Jupiter hath configuration with Mars in a good pofition, he produces a
fie~ and impetuous difpofition, bold, daring, and courageous, and given
to the purfuit of great and arduous enterprifes ; but, if evilly difpofed
with Mars in the figure, he induces to an unmerciful, feditious, and
.Wlftab)e, mind. prone to turbulence and faction, and given up to all the
irregularities of an evil and diffipated inclination. If Jupiter be in
familiarity with Venus, and well pofited, he difpofes the mind to fenti-
ments of liberality and juftice, gives ingenuity and perfeverance, and
11:rengthena the intellect by a capacious memory; but, if place~ in-
difcordant parts of the figure, he difpofes to the purfuit of fenfuat · and
Iafcivious pleafures, and gives a turn for loofe and diforderly converfation.
If Jupiter hath configuration with Mercury, and in good places, he
difpofes the mind to the purfuit of learning and wifdom, .and gives
thofe natural endowments of a refined intellect, which produce the moft
accomplHhed politicians, orators, poets, painters,. or .mathematicians 1 .
and is indeed one of the moft happy configurations. that aauate and
govern the men.tal faculties; but, if he hath an evil configur.ation with
Mercury, he induces the mind to vanity and enthufi.afm, leads to .felt-
conceitednefs and fuperftition, and gives.levity, loquacioufnefs, .and fu- -
perficial ideas.
Mars having alone the dominion of the mind, and well pofited in..the·
figure, produces a bold, confident, and intrepid, fpirit, given. to violence ·
.and war, impatient, tyrannical, and arbitrary, intermixed with an ex-
ternal fuew of rectitude and generofity; but, if unhappily difpofed, he
influences the m.ind to barbarity and malevolence, given to implacable
hatred and inhuruan ,reve~~e, and difpofes the foul to the p~rp~tratio·n.
of the·moft dark and mahc1ous atls of cruelty and fraud. Havmg fa-
miliarity with Venus, and happily fituated in the figure, he gives a
mind fraught with-liberality and chearfulnefs, difpofed to fincerity and :
. friendfhip, to circumfpeCtion and fobriety, and fond of mirth and p~ea-- .
(ure; but, if in an evil pofition of the figure, he inclines to drunkennefs .
and debau,:hery, and furnithcs a mind givea-to treachery, _deceit, and .
every fpecies of immorality. If Mars hath famili-arity with Mercury_in
a profperous ftation, he gives a mind happily formed for the condutHrig_
. of military or naval affairs, furnithcs the foul with a thirft for great. and .
.noble aCtions, and fortifies it with temper, deliberation,: coolnefs, con-
_fidence, and magnanimity J endowing the mind, at the fame time, with
. the fineft fc:elings ofhonour, genero.tity, humanity1 and benevolence; hu't,
·.i " . ·. . ~,£,
Digitized by Coogle'
:4-f,'l A N' l L L U s·. T· ll A T .;I 0 N.
:~f evilly difpofc~, h~ furni1hes •. carclefs and iaoonfta'!t mind, pteiDf to·
.'wicke~ and m1fch~evo~a p~chcca, aad toad of 4lfeord, .
1lrifil. •uul
feqitic:>n· · :
Venus ~l'?ne having gov•rnment of the intellelftual faeuhice, aJUI weU
·placed in the figure~ · ena~ws the mind with GGm~1~ency aad (oftacft,
repd~rs t.he fentlmeqts dehc~te, rpodeft, a~d well dt(potisd, and the IIWI·
~ers f\!e~t ·aqd ~ngaging; · bu~, contr~rily fituated, the iaduees to .._
tqn~~fs, flot~, and· ·~ffe~inacy, f~ught with oewardico 'aad pret;,.c;.
Havjng f~mil~arity with Mercury, a~d in a profpereus _pOfitioa, 1he1aaJ
~he ~ind ~o a rclith fot philofop~y aad fciellee~ ·give• el~uenoc and ia-
.g~puit,, ~nd ·for~~ an i.n~ellea 'for ~ivin~ty, law, or phyfic1 ltut, willy
-~~fRofl!d, ~~ sives a .lre~cherou~ and unftable raind, ·bent ·oa petftrti:llms
_'qpd c~n~~n~~~~~ a~~ ~iven, to fian~er,. hrpecrifr, an4 iucem~~ .
~f Mercury alone hath the dominion and gca•crnmeat of tho mlnd1 he
i~clinc;s ~t ~o the purfuit of prudence and wifdom, gives a turn for in-
genic~~ fpe~ulatio'ns, and ~ taftc fo.r p&ett-y aad fc:iencro; tho roteotive
;f~c':JltJ ~s gcn~rally flrong,. ~114 the wi& lively and po~tn&ing; but, if
he b~ po,fited m an unpropttsous part ~r the iguro, tie d1fpofea she mind
·~~ f9~getfulnef-s and indolenc:a. arid inftuencca so the pur.fuil of ~can aad
crafty ·objects; rendering the native: mutabl~ and ~aficady in mind aod
judgment, and in moft cafes ra1h, inconfiderate, and .fubjef.t to error. _
Th~. l~mi~aries Hkewife have their peGuliar oporaticms ppon tho mind
·a.~d ment~l faculties of the n~tive; fOr tho Moen, bliag 1n h04' groa~CJl
.north and fouth lat~tude, renders t~e motions of tbe aaiqlal foul more
yai'.OUS, crafty, and mutable; but, when 1he ia ia her DOrMS, 1he makes
th<:m more q_uick, aaive, and fprightly. In oriental pofitiona, and in-
creafi,ng in li~bt and motion,, 1he '-ive' a more open~ fr.o, and iagcauous,
mind; out, if de~rea{lng, 1he renaers the ~magination duU, laag.ukl, aDd
hea~y.~ a~.~ the ~mper chaog~ble and uncertain. The Sua co.ntribaaca
h.ia e1f~tls ~ccor~ing to the famiHarhy or configurat-ion he ~akes with
.·t~~. pl~n.et which ~~ ruler of the mental faculties. · If tho afpo& bo. goo4,
~nd in a fortu.n~te part of the fig,ure, hecon~ucos to fORD the mind more
.~QP9~~abJ.c~ ju.ft, ~od rr~; bu.t~ ~ ~h.~ cont~ary pofitigos, llo iDiaOI}CCS
t~ a.~wre ~b;e~, crue, and \lnwo~th)', d1fpofiuon. .
. J;"r<?~ ~he .~regoing pre~ifes, tho in$en.ioua fi:udcnt will roadily. infer,
~ha.t ~h_e quaht1es ·an~ af,fea1ons of the muui ar.c. con.(idcr4d, i:rft, from
~he places and pofitione of Mercury and Jh~ MOGG ;/ ~dly, tlom _.e
lords of the different places of the .figuro, tllircUy, frOQ} tho:DUW'e aud
conftitutioA
Digitized by Coogle ·
..
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. . 443 ..
conftitution of the planets with thofe places, or their refpect to ~he Sun
with their lords; fourthly, from their oppofition in refpeEl to the angles;
fifthly, from the nature and property of each ftar in conjunction with,
or beholding, thofe places; and, fixthly, from the power. or debility of
every fuch fignificator refpettively confidered. Nor ought the fixed ftan
of the firft and fecond mainitude, in or near the ecliptic, or that are
nearly vertical to the place of birth, and in conjunaion with the figni-
ficators, to be in any wife negleHed.
We may likewife add, that Mercury in conjunaion with the Sort
produces a mind fitly formed for the prudent and fuccefsful manage-
ment of any kind of bufinefs; but, if they irradiate each other at a dif-
tance of twenty or twenty-four degrees, the mind will be altog~ther
unfit for bufinefs, or any active line of life, but moftly difpofed to ftudy,
or to a fedentary calling. In equinoctial or tropical figns, Mercury has
the fame incitement to activity and public bufinefs as when bodily
configurated to the Sun; but in watery figns he aas contrarily, in other
1igns more varioufly, but always beft where heft dignified.
If Mercury be affiided with malevolent planets, the wit is alway•
dull, flow, and ftupid; if fwift in motion, he renders the mind quick,
but inconftant J if retrogade, dubious and unfixed; if under the Sun-
beams, the mind will lean to the purfuit of ufelefs and unprofitable (pe-
culations ; ifpofited in oriental houfcs, the difpofition will be open and
ingenuous; but, if in occidental, it will be wily, fubtle, and di1fembling.
If Mercury be better dignified and ftronger than the Moon, the reafon•
able faculties will be ftronger than the fenfitive, particularly if Mercury
be in figns of long afcenfion, and the Moon in thofe of thort afcenfion ;
but, if Mercury be in commanding figns, and the Moon in obeying, the
native's intelleCt will be naturally weak ·andimpaired; and, if the Moon
chance to be at the fame time irradiated by the afHicting rays of either
of the infortunes, the native will be irrational and a perfeCt ideot.
Of the NATURAL DISEASES incident to the MIN D.
· The affeCtions and properties of the mind are of a feparate and diftinCt
confideration from the Jfftafl.t of the mind, fuch as madnefs, infanity,
the falling ficknefs, and the· like; but are equally deducible from the
"face of the native's geniture. For this .purpofe we muft again refer tG
the configurations of Mercury and the Moon, and obferve how they aro
pofited in refpett of each other, and in reference to the angular houfes,
No. 22. 5 P and
Digitized by Coogle
- i
•"44 AN ILLUSTRATION
aruialfo to ·the .malefics. ·For, ifMercury -and the Moon are ·in -an in..
conjunct 1pofition in rofpecft of t~mf~lvcs, or the oriental horizon, and
are iflfadiarcd by contrary and malefic configurations, whereby fuperiors
rule or oppofe, they thUi ·conftitute various dif~afes in the qualities ofthe
mind; the particular fpClcies of which is known Jrop} the qualities of the
ftars which poffefs the places. Hence it is obvious th1lt the more .mo-
derate difeafes of the mind have their radical caufe from ·an excefs or
defect of thofe operations which induce the menaal qualities; for, the
predominancy of fuch qualities naturally promotes an excefs of evil, and
confiitutes a difeaf~, in proportion as the ambient matter is unmh•ed, and
above or oolow a proper mediocrity J but the more obvious and fat11ol
difeafe' of the mind arife from a difprQportion or defect of matter infinitQ
ly greater, and wholly befide nature.
, Thofe who ar~ born when Mercury and the Moon arc inconjuacft,
either in refpea of themfelves or .the orieatal:horizon, Saturn and Mars
being angular, and beholding the configur-ation, M-ars by night, and
Saturn by day, will be naturally,fubjea to the .falling ficknefs all theic
lives; but, if Saturn happens to take this pofition by night, and Mars by
day, the native will be fubjeH to phrenczy and madnefs, more efpedally
.if the afpect fall in Cancer, Virgo, or ·Pifces. Again, if the Moon,
.being in her pbafis, is overcome by malefic rays, namely, by the coo-
.currencc of Saturn when approaching co a new, or by Mars at her full,
either in the figns Sagittarius or Pifces, whe>ever is born under fuch con.
Jigurations will he fubjea to lunacy; ':fherefore the malefic ftar.s, over-
coming e>r predominating in any configuration, induce a variety of
mental difeafes, which are either remarkably violent, or obfcure and la-
·tcnt, according to the nature and energy of each rcfpc8ive rulin~ planet.
If the benevolent planets Jupiter and Venus h:we familiarity, in ori-
ental pofitions, and angular, with the malefics occidcntalJy poftted,.
thefe mental difeafes, though fuong and violent, will be curable; if
Jupiter prefides, they will be moved by medical help; but, if Venus,
by the natural ftrength of the mental faculties. But, if 'hefe pofitia1is
happen to be reverfed, the malefic ftars angular, and in oriental ftations,
and the benefics fetting, the difeafes will become more manifcft, and
be wholly incurable. Hence we derive the caufe of the ever-varying
-mutation of the animal fpirits, which are always more or lefs affeaed
in proportion as Mercury and the Moon are agitated by the good or evil ·
intluen(:e~ of other concurring and adjuvant c;aufes. .
Such
oigitizedbyGoogle · j
' 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
Sueh are the mor-bid aiFeaions in the atlive part of the ·rational foul,
produced by the planetary configurations, but the great change which
arifes in the patient, that is, in the irrational par-t of the foul•, is in~
duced chiefly from excefs or defect, according to the particular confor-
mation of male or female, in which they either exceed, or are deficient, in
the parts proper to their fex. For it is found, that, ifthe Sun be configu-
rated with the Moon in the place of Mercury, and Mars and Venus have
familiarity with them, the luminaries being in mafcnline figns, the
men will exceed in that which is naturaiJ having thofe parts in eJDCefs
that are proper to inan; and the woman. will have a conformation of
parts preternatural and mixed. But, if Mars and Venus Chould be one
or both conftituted with them after a mafculine manner, the men will
be fubjett to mixtures of fex, and the women to violent Jufi: and intem~
perate wantonnefs. If Venus alone be difpofed after a mafculine manner,
this fenfation will be lefs flrong, and the parties will conduEt themfelves
with more decency and modefty; but, if Mars and Venus both are fo
conftitutcd, they will be moved to carnal embraces by the mofi: violent
and irrefiftible fenfations.
If the luminaries alone are con figurated in feminine figns, the women
then born will be of immoderate conformation, and will have flroQg and
continual defires after men; but the men then born will be changed to
that conformation which is inferior to nature, and will inherit an effe..
minate and tender confi:itution of body and parts. And, if ;venus be
difpofed with them in a feminine manner, the women will be more la-
fcivious and prone to venery; and, in whatever line of life they chance
to glide, this paffion will always be prodominant, and moft probably
fubjed: them to difgrace and infamy. The men under this conftitntioa
are frill more effeminate and impotent; but, if Mars be thus confi:ituted
inftead o( Venus, they become robufi: and vigorous, and luft after women.
The oriental or diurnal configuration of Mars and Venus contribute
to a more mafculine and robuft conformation, but the occidental and
ve{pertine to their being more efteminate and debilitated. If Saturn
happens to be configurated with them, he contributes to mQre lufi: and
wantonnefs, but in an unnatural way; if Jupiter irradiates the ~fpeCl,
• To prevent the reader from being innocently led aftr-ay, and the defigning critic from ex-
.,laining away the author's meaning, it is juft neceffary to :remark, that what i& faid here of the
miAd and foul is not to be underfl:Ood of the ]up4rnatural foul, which lutur ditth., but of tbe
intdleCtual rational part of the animal fou~ which is formed, ruled,. an.d wholly governed,
by thefe Iupreme and fole fecond caufcs, under God, the ftars; but ptmc1pally by the Moon
and Mercw-r.
he
Digitized by Coogle
-~46 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
l1e conduces to more modefty and decency; but Mercury inijuences to a
greater mobility of paffion, to a frequent change of objef.ts, and to a con..
tinuallove ofvariety, whether the native be male or female.
Of W E A L T H and R I C H E S.
We have hitherto confidered onJy· fuch parts of the native~ geniture
as relate to the accidents of his body and mind, a_
nd the general qualities
incident to them, as well before as after the birth. From thefe the
!peculations natura1ly follow which regard the contingencies of them;
whereof thofe appertaining to temporal poffeflions feem peculiarly to
agree with what concerns the body, and thofe which relate to honour
and dignity feem more particularly to flow from the qualities of the
mind.
· To afcertain, therefore,· the kind and quality of worldly po1feffions,
in any rational degree, we are _to confider of the pofition of the Part of
Fortune, with the nature and firength of the planet which rules it, to-
gether with his configurations and pofitions in refpeCl: to other fiars. ·
For, whatever planet aff'umes the lordihip of the Part of Fortune, if firong
and .well dignified, he will aff'uredly contribute wealth and riches, but
more abundanty and lafiing when the luminaries give tefiimony to him
by irradiating the place of his pofition. It is to be obferved that Saturn
gives an increafe of wealth by the improvement and cultivation of lands,
or by buildings or navigation. Jupiter contributes riches by the con-
fidence ·and love of friends, which produce legacies and patrimony; alfo
by preferment in the church. Mars conduces to wealth by warfare, in·
trepidity, and good gerieraHhip. Venus, by friendihip, gifts, and mar•
riage. Mercury by fciencc, oratory, or perfeverance in bu1inefs.
Saturn having familiarity with the part of Fortune, and configurated
at the fame time with Jupiter, promifes lands and hereditaments; par-
ticularly if pofited in a fuperior angle, and Jupiter occidental in a double-
bodied fign., or in application with the Moon; for then, being adopted,
the native will become the heir of others. And, if thofe fiars, which are
of the fame nature with the fignificator of the Part of Fortune, give tefti-
mony of dominion, the poffeffion will remain with the native; but, ifthofe
of a contrary quality are elevated above the lord which has <tominion, the
'po1feffion will be of no duration, and future riche.s precarious. The ge-
neral time of thefe events is taken from the inclination of the fiars which
produce the caufc in refped: to the angles and fucceedents. It may alfo
a . be
Digitized by Coogle
447
be further.obierved, th~t if thefe _lords ofthe Part of Fortune, commonly
called figmficators of nches, are 1n an angular pofitton, the acquifition of
w~ahh wi!l happ_en in youth ; and, if on t~e cufps of thofe angular po-
fittons, 1hll earher. If they are pofited m fuccedents, the riches will
prefent themfelves at a middle age; if in cadent houfes, either late or
in extreme old age. The fame circumftances are likewife produced hy
oriental and occidental pofitions, in refpeet of the Sun and the World.
OF A S T R -o L 0 G Y.
. .
Of D I G NIT I E S and H 0 N 0 U R S.
Things which relate to honour and. dignity ar{deduced from the
difpofition of the luminaries, and the familiarity of the ftars by which
. they are furrounded. Wherefore, if both the luminaries at the time of
birth are found in mafculine figns, angular, and attended by the five
planets, the Sun by oriental ftars, and the Moon by occidental, thofe
perfoos will afpire to extraordinary power and dignity, and exercife au-
thority and dominion over.others, from whence great tribute and ho-
nour will .flow. And if thefe forrounding planets are angular, or con-
figurated to a cardinal houfe above the earth, they will be great and
powerful in a fuperior degree; but fi:ill more fo, if the attending planets
make a dexter configuration to the angles above the earth, with the Sun
in a mafculine fign, and the Moon in a feminine ; for then the native
wilJ arrive to a power like that of princes, having abfolute dominion and
government, difpofirlg, in a comparative degree, of the i1fues of life and
death.
But if the luminaries happen to be thus pofited, and none of the fur-
rounding planetsare in angular fi:ations, nor give tefi:imony to the angles, the
native will be great and honourable as a magiftrate or general, but not
as having dominion or princely dignity. So if the furrounding planets
are fome or mofi: of them in angular fi:ations, or configurated to the
angles, yet, if the luminaries are not in angular pofitions alfo, the nati•e
will not arrive to fuch illufi:rious preferment, and will but moderately
excel in dignity and honour. But, if neither 9f the attending planets is
configurated to the angles, the native will be obfcure, and pafs his whole
life without promotion or dignity ; and ifneither of the luminaries are at
the fame time found in a mafculine fign, nor angular, nor attended by
the benefic r,.ys of good planets, the native's life will be abjeCl and mife..
rable, and his fortune hard.
No. aa. Thua
Digitized by Coogle
448 AN ILLUSTRATION
Thus the general confideration and mritabi1ity of dignity and honour
is fought out and determined. But many things between the two ex-
tremes of -dignified fiation and abjeCt fervility mull: be taken into the
account, before any reafonable judgment can be formed from the native's
geniture ; for we mull: recolleEt, that every perfon born under the fame
propitious configuration cannot alike arrive to the felf-fame height of
dignity and honour, becaufe the difference of birth and ftation will at
once deftroy the poffibility of it ; not to fay any thing of crofs afpeas_
and other baneful familiarities, which may either cut the thread of .
Jife, or tend to leffen the grateful influences of benefic configurations.
It therefore follows, that we are not only to judge of perfonal honour
and dignity, under certain reftriEtions_ from the nature, quality, and
place of birth, but likewife from a due confideration of all occurring and
fubordinate rays, which may in any lhape be liable to affeCl: the fignifi-
cators of dignity. We mufl: not however forget, that_ when thefe fignifi-
cators are fo dignified in a nativity, that no evil rays_ either mundane
or zodiacal, or any fubordinateparallels, confpire to affiiCl ordiminiih their
good influences, <tnd the prorogator of life is {l:rong and durable_ be the
quality of birth what it may, and the obfcurity of the parents ever fo
remarkable, yet the infant thus brought into the world fuall be exalted to
a degree of eminence and grandeur infinitely beyond whatever could
have been expeCted. And it is juft the fame in refpeCl: of riches, plea-
fure, wedlock, children, friends, enemies, travelling, and all other
events.common.to human life; for, if the place of the nativity properto
either of them be thus firongly and happily configurated, the effeCl:s will
be produced in an eminent and glorious manner ; but, when there hap-
pen crofs and latent familiarities to oppofe and affiitl: the refpeCtive fig-
nificators, and particularly if there are tefiimonies of lhort life, death
will of courfe enfue, and all infc;rior or dependent incidents naturally
ceafe, and are prevented.
Of natural I N C L IN AT I 0 N S or P R 0 F E S S I 0 N S.
Since the confequences of the fall produced that unalterable decree of
beaven, that manjhould eat bread by the Jweat of hiJ brow; and fince the
increafe of mankind upon the face of the earth rendered a variety of
profcflions neceffary ; fo it is natural to belieYe, what obfervation has
long confirmed, that the bent of every man's mind is more or lefs dif-
poftd towards the purfuit of fome particular avocation, by which the caUs
of nature may be fupplied, and the decrees of heaven fully accomplilhed.
And hence it is that the ftars, as fecond caufes under God, derive the
- .:-: · power
Digitized by Coogle
-i-49.
power of influencing mankind to a natural choice of thefe profeffions J
our propenf1ties to which are fo deeply rooted, and fo ftrongly imprinted
on the mental faculties, that no human bias is able to counteract them,
nor the moll: elevated ftation in life, not even that of majefi:y itfelf, fuf-
ficient to repel the in~ination from an attachment to fome branch of me-
chanifm or fcience, by which an advantage might in fome meafure be de-
rived, either univerfally or individually. .
0 F AS T R 0 L 0 G Y.
To enter upon this fpeculation, we muft confider the lord of the
profeffion or planet that a1fumes the dominion, which is taken two
ways, either from the Sun, or the fign upon the midheaven ; where-
fore we ought to obferve the ftar that makes an oriental appearance next
to the Sun, or midheaven, but more particularly when approached by
the application of the Moon;. and if one and the fame planet pa1fes
both, or makes the nearefi: approaches to the Sun or mid-heaven, we
take that planet for lord of the profefiion. • But if one planet be pofited
before the Sun, and another in the mid~heaven, having familiarity with
the Moon, both are to be confidered, and that only preferred, as figni.fi-
cator, which is apparently the moft ftrong, and beft·dignified. In cafea
where no planet is found approaching the Sun,· nor pofited in the mid-
heaven, then that 1hall be taken which hath dominion, or is lord of the
mid-heaven.
To endeavour to afcertain the very profeffion or mechanical trade each
native will follow, is an idle and abCurd attempt, and favours of folly
and fanaticifm. For, though it is poffible to defcribe the kind and qua-
lity of the profeffion in refpefr to its general tendency and genus, .yet it
is impoffible to afcertain particularly whether a man 1hall be a common
carpenter, a wheelwright, or cabinet-maker. What we are able to dif-
cover is made known by the properties of the three planets, Mars, Ve-
nus, and Mercury, confidered in refp.::Et of the figns in which they are
pofited. Mercury influences to the love of literature, and the polite
arts; and, if he be lord of the profeffion, will naturally incline the active
qualities of the mind to fuch purfuits as are conformable thereto, and
which come under the various branches of the fciences and philofophy.
He therefore produces excellent orators, fi:udents in law, phyfic, or di-
vinity; eminent poets and hifi:orians; together with the whole train of
dependent and inferior avocations of this clafs, which are difcoverable
by the prefence or afiifi:ing rays of the other planetary configurations;
for, if Saturn gives tefrimony to Mercury, the profdiion will be of an
inferior order.; but, if Jupiter, they will be more e.xcellent aud ho-
nourable. ·
If
Digitized by Coogle
450 A N I L L U S T R A T· I 0 N
If Venus affumes the dominion of the profeffion, ~e will diipofe the
hative to the ftudy of flowers, and of botany ingeneral, and confequently
to the knowledge and preparation of unguents, tinaures, eifences, fpices.
aromatic waters, wines, cordials, and other produClions of herbs and
flowers, fome or other of which the native will probably deal in. If
Saturn gives teA:imony to her, the makes chemifts, apothecaries, dealera
in dyes and colours, or fuch as deal in wearing apparel, or the
materialsofwhich they are compofed. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony,
the native will afpire after fome eminent office, or place of truft under
government; or to fome poft of honour, or official department in the
fl:ate ; ot will obtain fome honourable profeffion in the navy or army by
a perfeverance in that line.
If Mars is ruler of the profeffion, and irradiated by the Sun, he leadt
to all thofe branches of the mechanics which are wrought by the
operation of fire; whence he produces all the artificers in brafs and iron,
and the workers and refiners of metals. But, being in conjunction with
the Sun, be influences to hufbandry, agriculture, and working in wood
and ftone. IfSaturn gives teA:imony to him, he carries the inclination
towards a feafaring life, or to a love of gain by travelling, or by traffic
in foreign countries, or by dealing in fiavea or cattle. If Jupiter gives
teftimony, the native's profeffion will be that of the army or navy, or
{orne place, office, or employment, dependent thereon.
tf Mercury and Venus are fo configurated in the gcniture as to be-
come joint rulers of the prq_feffion, they will produce excellent muu-
cians, and good compilers of mufical pieces; alfo, mufical inftrument
makers, compofers of fongs and glees, and admirable fingers; likewife
comedians, opera dancers, tumblers~ and all the tribe of exhibitionifts.
And, if Saturn gives teftimony, he will make jewellers, toymen, and
dealers in ornaments and precious ftones. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony
to them, he will difpofe the mind to the ftudy of politics, or of national
and conftitutionallaw ; or he will make the profeffion that of a teacher
or fchoolmafter, or the ruler and manager of fome public feminary of '
learning.
If Mara and Mercury are joint lords of the profeffion, they lead the
inclination to the choice of painting or drawing; to ftatuary, fculpture,
carving, engraving, and fuch-like ingenious arts. But, becaufe the hap-
PY configurations which confpire to the produttion of talents proper for
thefe purfuits are not often to be found in any geniture, without fomc
malevolenc
Digitized·by Google
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
malevolent or afiliainJ rays, whereby the native•s genius is impaired, it
feldom happens that we find vety ~igh perfection, or fuper-extfaordinary
merir, among the numerous profcffors and followers of the polite arts f
whence comes the foundation ~f the common faying, fo ftriClly confor..
mabie to truth and reafon, that painters, poets, and muficiansf mull: be
fo boril; that i~, muft inherit from nature a ftrong bias for either of
thefe profeffions, to make any extraordinary progrefs in them. And it
is remarkable, that, if Saturn gives teftimony to this joint rule of Mars
and Mercury, all the above ingenuity and tafie will be ddl:royed, and
the native become wbo11y untral:table and indolent, and giYen up to
theft, fwiru:Uing, ilia.rping, and ocher fpecie& and fraud and violence, for
the means of a fubfiftcnce.
If Mars and Venus jointly take dominion of the profeffion, they pro-
duce workers anchtealcrs--in various kinds of metals; likewife hu1band-
men, apothecaries, and pbj'Ucians, and all profeffions in the nature of
plants and het'ba. If Saturn givea teftimony to them, they will make
i!norant pretenders to ~nufic and divinity ; and, in all other profeffions
under this configuration, the native will betr~y a want of ingenuity and
capacity. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony, the contrary effects will hap-
pen; and, in whatever purfuit the native engages, proper to this mixture
of the ruling planets, he will haYc. the fatisfaetiorJ of deriving both ho...
nour and profit from his labours.
It muft alfo be obfcned, that the quality of the figns in which thefe
congreffes ~re made, and wherein the lord~ of the profcffion are pouted,
~ confers to the variety and advantage of fucli profeffion. Thofe of human
1bape conduce amazingly to the perfection of all thofo fciences and avo-
cations which are for the improvement and information of the mind.
Four-footed figns contribute to the greater perfeaion of metallic arts,
navigation, and architeCture. Tropical and equinotlial figns forward
the purfuits of hufbandry, agriculture, the mathematics, chemiftry,
and theology. Earthy and watery figns to tbe perfection of phyfic and
furgery, to the aTt of ·conftruetiog fuips, and to the profcffion of a
merchant. "
Again, if the Moon po1Teff'ea the place of the profeffion, having confi-
guration with Mercury, at her conjunaion with the Sun, either in
Taunas, Capricorn, or Cancer, ihc will conduce to greater fagacity aad
penetratioq in whatever profeflion the.native happens to follow. If this
configuration happens in' Sagittarius or Pifees, it conduces to a melan-
choly and timid purfuit of.bufioefs, and burthcna the mind with enthu,-
No. 23• 5 R · fiaftic
Digitized by Coogle
/
.f52 A N I L L U S 'I" R A T. I 0 N
fiafiic and fuperfiiti~us affe&iuns. If lt happens in Virgo or Scorpio, it
contributes profound wifdom and knowledge to the profeffion of phy-
ficians, lawyers, or divines; and to the followers of fcience or philofo-·
phy. If in Libra, Aries, or Leo, it makes enthufiafiic preachers, and
fills the mind with idle and immoderate ideas of gain by each refpeClive
bufinefs or avocation.
..
Thus the kinds and qualities of profeffions are to be fought out in a
general way, and dcfcribed accordingly',; bm the importance and extent
of them mull: be confidered from tQe firength and dignity of the ruling
fiars. For. being oriental or angular, th.ey make the profeffion eminent
and profitable; but, if occidental, or decl-tning from angles, .it will be
unimportant, mean, and unprofitable. If the benefics are fuperior, the
profeffion will be eminent, honourable, and conducive to great riches;
but, if the ·malefics are fuperior, it will be mean, inglorious, and wholly
unprofitable. Saturn is found to defi:roy the benefits of an aBive pro-
feffion by tardinefs, indifference, and inaCl:ivity : but Mars through
boldnefs, Joftinefs, and prefumption ; wherefore both aa in oppofition
to the fuccefs and advantage of the native's profeffion. But_the general
caufes of the failure or profperity of bufinefs muft be judged. of from
the difpofition and quality of the fi:ars which produce this effect;· and
this in reference to the oriental and occidental angles. The eaft angle
deno~es the beginning of life; the weft angle the end ; and the mid..
heaven the middle part, from about thirty to forty years : and, as the
fignificators are difpofed in the radical figure, fo will the effects thereof
be at the fet time of Jife c.onformable thereto.
•
It muft be ev~r remembered that the doCtrine of profeffions here l~id
.down, and the effe&s arifing from them, relates only to fuch as are fol-
lowed in confequence of the natural impulfe of the mind,; in which cafes
alone we are to feek for adequate fuccefs and perfe&ion in the profecu-
.tion of them. Among the obfervations we make of the common occur-
rences of life, we too often find youth configned to fuch employments,
by the will or caprice of their parents, as they are neither defigned for
by nature nor have the leaft inclination to follow. And hence it
is that fo many bunglers rife up in all trades and profeffions, who, finding
their bufinefs a contin-
ual load of oppreffion and perplexity, either aban-
don it altogether, or elfe become indolent, fotti£h,, and inactive, to the
utter ruin to their families and to the general annoyance of the more
indufi:rious part of mankind. From this confid'eration, parents and
guardians 1hould be careful to educate and bring up the riling generation.
es far as prudence will admit, according to the natural bent and genius
1 of
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 453
of their own inclinations, which is the only direa road to excellence
and perfeBion. This I think is a faa that needs no further illufi:ration, .
fince the obfervations of mofi: men will furnilh them with infi:ances of
perfons being regularly bred to fome profeffions, which even· at an ad-
vanced time of life they wholly abandon, in purfuit of fome other calling
more confonant to their nature and abilities, and in which they ofteB
fucceed, to the aftoniiliment to their competitors.
Of M A R R I A G E.
To \\'hat has been Jaid follows the confideration of marriage, or the
:fit conjunaion and living together of man and woman, according to the
divine ordinance of the fupreme Being. And, as this law was evi9ently
eftablilhed from the beginning of things,· as well for the propagation of
the fpecies as for the mutua) comfort and happinefs of the fexes, it were
fenfelefs to fuppofe human nature void of the impulfe of reciprocal love;
or that the involuntary aCtions of the foul, by which it is moved towards the
objea of its affetlions, have not a radical caufe in the order of n'ature.
If this be admitted, it cannot furely .be deemed a fubjeet of ridicule, to
believe that this, as well as the other important tranfaetions of our lives,
may be fought out by a contemplation of the celeftial bodies.
To invenigate this point, therefore, in refpetl: to men, let the pofi.
tions and confi:itutions of the Moon be particularly confidered. For,
when the is found in the oriental quadrants at the time birth* fhe
influences the native to the confummation of marriage at an e<lrly period
of his life J but, if pofited in the occidental quadrants, he will probably
live fingle till the approach of old age, and then marry a very young
woman. If the Moon be afHitled by 'the Sun-beams, and in configura-
tion with Saturn, in either of thefe pofitions the native will n::ver marry
at all. If lhe be found in a fign of one form, and making applicJtion to
one planet only, the native will marry but once; but, if pofited in a hi-
corporal or fign of many forms, and making application to feveral ftars
in the fame fign, he will be feveral times married. And, if the ftars
which receive the Moon's application, either by a conjun:iion, fexti-le, or
trine, are benefic, the wives will be good and virtuous; but, if the ap-
plication be made to malefic planets, and by evil configurations, they
will be altogether of an oppofite defcription. Therefore, if Saturn re-
ceives the Moon's application, it indicates a laborious, but fullen, fro-
ward, and ungovernable, wife. If it be made to Jupiter, £he will be free,
opeo, and generous, truly virtuous, and a good houfewife. If to Mars,..
fuc
~ -
Digitized by Coogle
454- A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N ·
file will be bold, ftubborn, and refrntlory. If to Venus, chearful,
complacent, affable, and chafle-. If to Mercury, wife, prudent, loving,
and confhnt.. But, if Mars irradiates the place, ~will be furly, ~:.
flonate, talkative, and unfi:eady.
For t~e particulars of marriage in refpeCl: of women, we are to confider
the pofitions of the Sun, inftead of the Moon ; for, if he be fituated in
the oriental houfes, at the time of birth, the native will either marry very
young, or elfe ~t an advanced time of life to a young mao ; but, if the
Sun be found in the occidental houfes, £he will marry late, or to a .man
far advanced in years. And alfo, if he be fituated in a fign of one form,
~e will marry but once; but, if in a tign of many forms, or configurated
to many oriental ftars, ihe will have more hulhands than one, who will
partake of !he fame natur~ and qualities as the ftars to which the confi..
gurations are made. Thus, Saturn, if configurated to ,the Sun, will
indicate fober, grave, and laborious~ hufbands, but cold and phlegmatic.
jupiter difpofcs them to more opennefs of mind, and generofity. Mara
makes them violent, warm, unruly, pa.Gionate, and arbitrary. Venus
foreLhews them to be indulgent, fond, good-natured, and haodfome.
Mercury difpofes them to be careful, .prudent, induftrious, and faithful.
But, if Saturn be joined with Mercury, they will be churlilh and rc-
ferved; if with Venus, they will be dull, four, and inconfi:ant: if with
Mars, quick, lively, luftful, and fond of variety. Thofc are here to be
confidered the oriental quarters in refpelt of the Sun, which precede the
oriental and ·occidental fign of the zodiac ; and, in refpetl of the Moon,
thofe from her new and full to her other quarters ; and the occidental
houfes arc thofe which fall oppofite to the foregoing.
As to events .that occur after marriage, that is a different (peculation,
and requires great attention to the following particulars. Wnenever the'
geniture of both ·huiliand and wife have the luminaries configurated in
mutual .agreement, that is, in trine or fextile to each other, they will
live together in comfort and harmony, and for a long continuance of
time, if the luminaries happen to be in mutual reception. And this du-
ration will ftill be more firm and lafi:ing, if the potition of the hulband•s
Moon agrees with that of the Sun in the wife's geniture. But, if tho
pofitions of the luminaries are placed in figns inconjunH, and configu-
rated by quartile or oppolitioo, they will either live together in difcord
and enmity, and be rent by violent jealoufiea and contention, or elfe be
fully and finally eftranged from each other.
•
Again,
oigHized.by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 4SS
Again, if the benefic ray• of the fortunate planets behold the configu-
rations of the luminaries in mutual reception, the marriage will be
durable, conftant, happy, and profitable; but, if the 'malefic planets
irradiate tbofe places, the marriage will be unhappy, contentious, and
· miferable. If the luminaries ·are not configurated in mu.tual reception,
yet if the benefics give tcftimony to them, the marriage will be mode-
rat-ely happy and durable; and, when ftrife and difagreements happen,
the fame will wear ofF, and reconciliation will take place between them ;
but, if the malefics give tetl:imony to the difcordant pofitions of the lu-
minaries, inconftancy and infidelity will en!ue, and the marriage will
be dHfolved with fcandal and difgrace. If Mercury be joined with the
malefics, the feparation will be for hatred and diflike, and by mutual
confent; but, if Venus gives teftimony to them, it will bo a divorce, by
due courfe of law, for infidelity and adultery.
Marriages, in other refpecb, are confidered from the familiarities ·and
connexions of Venus, Mars, and Saturn. For, if thefe are all three
configurated with the luminaries~ the marriage will be good, domeftic,
and profitable; by reafon of the affinity which the benefic planet Vent~s
hath with Mars and Saturn J with Mars, becaufe of youth and florid coun-
tenance, feeing they have .exaltation in mutual trigonal figns, as Mars in
Capricorn the triplicity of Venus, and Venus in Pifces the triplicity
of Mars ; or Mars in Pifces the exaltation of Venus, -and Venus in
Capricorn the exaltation of Mars. So likewife Capricorn and Libra are
common to Saturn and Venus; for Venus in Libra hath houfe, and Sa-
turn triplicity; and in Capricorn Saturn hath houfe·, and Venus tripli-
city; and hence file bears relation to Saturn by an older complexion,
feeing they have their boufes trigonal to each other. Wherefore Venus
with Mars conduces to make the inclinations more fond and amorous;
and Mercury, giving te{Hmony to them, qualifies the paffions, and keeps
the fenfual appetite within rational bounds. If Venus be found in any
of the above familiar and promifcuous figns~ the indicates marriages be-
tween kinfmen and-relations ; or, if the be witp the Moon in a mafcu-
line geniture, it prediCts that two fifters, or near relations, will be mar·
.ried to the fame man; but, if 1be be thus configurated to Jupiter, or the
Sun, in a feminine geniture, it fuews the woman will marry two bro-
thers,. or two men that are .nearly related.
It is likewife obfervable, that, in aU cafes where Venus is thus cori.
figurated to Saturn, in the place of marriage, the connubial ftate
will be blifsful and happy to the native ; and, if Mercury be joined
with them, he adds profperity i but, if Mars be f~bftituted in his place,
No. 23. · · · 5 S the
Digitized by Coogle
I'
456 A N I L L U S T R .A T I 0 N
the marriage will be altogether wretched, contentious, and unhappy.
If Mars be configurated to Venus, Saturn, and Mercury, the·native
marries with a perfon nearly of an equal age; but, ·if he be pofited in an
oriental or eaftc:rly ftation, the native marries with a perfon .much youn-
ger; and, if in an occidental or wefterly ftation, with a perfon much older.
If VemlS and Saturn be found in promifcuous figns, fuch as Capricorn
or Libra, the native will marry among his own kindred ; ~ut, if this
· configuration is made upon the cufps of the horofcope or mid-heaven, -
irradiated by the Moon, and the geniture be mafculine, the native will
luft after his own fifter, aunt, or mother-in-law; or, if the geniture be
feminine, the will have defire unto her own brother, uncle. or daugh-
ter's hufband. Should the Sun irradiate the place, inftead of the Moon,
then the males will have defire toward their daughters, or.{on's wife;
and the females to their fons, nephews, or fifter's hu£band.
Obfervation likewife proves, ·that, if Venus and Saturn are confign--
rated neither in a mafculine nor feminine fign, but in thofe of an oppo-
1ite quality, which are alike in fex, but contrary in nature; or in thofe
that are ruled by places ·of a contrary nature, as Capricorn is ruled by
Saturn.a~d Mars, and Pifces by Jupiter and Venus; the native will be
prone to .luft, of a loofe converfation, and immodeft carriage; more par-
ticularly if the configuration be made in the firft or latter degrees of
Aries, near the Hyades, in the latter degrees of Leo, -or upon the face
of Capricorn. And, if thefe planets. occupy the two principal angles,
namely, the afcendant or mid-heaven, thefe libidinous affetlions will be
the more firong, open, and oftenfive, making the party gtory, as it were..
in lafcivioufnefs and debaucheries; but it is a moft extraordinary cir-
cumftance, that the fame afpech in the northern and weftern angles not
only conduce to an oppofite difpofition, but render the native either
barren, deficient, or of evil conformation, in refpeC\ to the parts necct.
fary to generation. ·
The difpofition o( men, as to modeft or vicious habits, very much de-
·pends on the pofition and configuration~ of ~ars ;. for, if he be feparat-
Jng from Saturn and Venus, and applymg to Jupner, men bora at that
time will be difcreet and modeft, decent in their iatercoutfes with the
other fex, and difpofed only to the natural cfe. If Jupiter and Venus be
configurated to Saturn and Mars, the native will be eafily moved on, and
have a fecret d.efire to ad:a of venery; but will have an external thew of
chaftity. and labour to avoid the thame. If Mars and Venns are aloQe
configurated toaother, or if Jupiter bears tcftimony, the native will be
openly lafcivious, and indulge in the ofoft luxuriant enjoyments of the
oppolite
Digitized by Coogle
·o F A S T R ·0 L 0 G Y. 457
oppofite (ex. If one of thefe planets be ori~ntal, and the other occi-
dental, he will be difpofed towards men as well as ~omen; but, if both
are found configurated in the occidental quarters, the native's company
1hould be avoided, for he will burn with unnatural defires after men or·
boys; more particularly if the afped falls in mafculine figns, in which
cafe the inclination is moft aftonHhingly moved towards this infamous
and 1hocking practice. It is likewife to be remarked, that, if Venus be
alone in an occidental pofition, the native will for the moft part have
intercourfe with none but the meaneft and moft proftituted part of the
fex; but, if Mars be alone in this pofition.t he influences to greater delicacy
and faftidioufnefs, and marks the charaCter with a de1ire after married WO•
men, or to the more continent and modeft among the fingle ones.
Such are the caufes which vary the fenfual appetites of men; we will
now confider thofc peculiar to womcn.-If Venus be configurated to
Jupiter, and Mercury gives tefiimony, the native will be fober, pure,
and moderate in her defires after men; but, having familiarity with Mer-
cury alone, lhe will privately give herfelf up to fenfual embraces, though
remarkably coy and referved in public. So likewife, if Venus be con-
.figurated to Mars alone, the native will be wanton and lafcivious ; and, if
Mercury bas familiarity with them, ilie will be wholly given up to luft..
ful plcafures and proftitution. If Jupiter concurs in this afpetl, and
Mars be .combuft of the Sun, the native will be mean and abjea, fub-
mitting to the ufe of the moil. vulgar and lowcft clafs of mankind; but,.
if Venus be combuft intl:cad of Mercury, £be will fubmit with more re-
ferve and caution, and moftly with decent and genteel perfons. If the~
planets be configurated after a feminine manner, the fenfual appetite of the
native will be only pafiive; but, if.difpofed after a mafculioe manner, it
will be a&ive alfo. Saturn, having familiarity with tbefe configurations•.
adds to the great~r luft and licentioufnefs; but Jupiter to a greater ihare
of modefty. decency, and external decorum. ·
Of C H I L D R E N.
After the confideration of marriage follows that of children. This fpe·
culation is deduced from the ftars configurated in the midheaven, or
{uccedent, which is the eleventh houfe; but, if none of the planets are
found in thefe places, then the oppofite ones are to be confidered. The
Moon, Jupiter, and Venus, are rbe given of children; but the Suo,
Mars, and Saturn, occafion ftcrility, or paucity of ~hildren. Mercury,
as in all other cafes, contributes his influences according to the nature
and quality of that ftar or planet with which he is configurated; ad~ing
to the increafe of children when in the eaft, but to fterility and barren-
nels
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
nefs when occidental, or in the weft. Wh~n therefore thefe ftars which
are givers of children, are thus pofited, and by themfelves, they fore-
thew only one child to the native; but, if they are formed in double-bo-
died or feminine figns, they caufe the generating of twins : Co likewife, in
fruitful figns, as Pifces, Cancer, or Scorpio, they will produce two or
three children at a birth. If they are of a mafculine nature, by being
configurated to the Sun, and in mufculine figns, they caufe males ; but,
·if they are difpofed after a feminine nature, they give females. If they
are overcome by malefic planets,. and pofited in barren places or figns.
fuch as Leo or Virgo, they will give children, but not of any ftability
or duration; they will be naturally weak and puny, by being void of a
proper thare of vital heat and nourHhment. If the Sun and malefic ftars
jointly poff'efs the midheaven or eleventh houfe, in mafculine or fterilo
tigns, without either of the benefics concurring, they .indicate perpetual
barrennefs to the native, and thew an utter want of children? but, if they
be in feminine or fruitful figns, or aided by the benefics, they foreiliew
the 'produClion of children, but fuch as are either hurt or blemithed in
their bodies, or of a ihort and unhealthy life.
In all thefe cafes it muft be remembered, that whenever the malefic
fiars have the dominion, and .the benefics give teftimony, being configu-
rated in, or having refped to, proHfic figns, there will happen a rejeCtion
of children according to the excefs w.hich the ftars giving teftimony have
_
in each condition, either of all the children, or of a few, or moft, as they
are found more powerful, by being more oriental or angular, or moreele-
vated or foccedent. If therefore the lords of thofe figns, being givers of
children, are orientally po-fited, or in good places of the figure, the chil•
dren will be fortunate and afpiring, anc! will arrive at fingular fame and
honour.: but, i~ the pofition be occidental, ~r in evil pl~ces of the figure,
the cbJldren wtll be altogether mean and obfcure. Moreover, if they
agree with the part of fortune an4 horofcope, they forethew mutual love
and confidence, and a good underftanding always to exift between the
children and parents, and that they ~ill become the heirs and inheritors
of their fortunes; but, if thefe be found unconjoined ~nd difagreeing, the
children will be Yicious and incorrigible, lofing the efteem, and wearing
out the patience, of their parents, and thereby perhaps miffing the inhe-
ritance of their fubftance. If the ftars which a1fume the dominion of
children are agreeably configurated among themfelves, theyfore1hew love
, and harmony among brothers and fifters, and that they will help and
affift one another during their lives. But, as to other particulars rela-
tive to the fortunes and general purfuit of children, they are to be fought
out by placing the fign and degree in which the fignificator of children
1 h
olgitized by Coogle
. 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
is Found, upon the a{cendant, and making the figns upon the cu{ps of
all the other hou{es agreeable thereto, in the fame manner as if it was
the proper nativity of each child, and then judge of the difpofition of
· the figure, according to the rules heretofore laid down. .
. -Qf F R I E N D S and E N E M I E S.
The things which relate to friendfuip and enmity are confidered by
obferving the principal places of the geniture wherein the fignificators
thereof have familiarity or afpect, together with the weak~efs or ftrength
of them. The great and more durable familiarities or differences of thefc
ftars arc termed fympathies and enmities; and the fmall and temporary
familiarities are called focieties and contentions. To difcover thefe, we
muft carefully obferve the pJaces of the S~n and Moon, in refpea to the
horofcope and part of fortune; for, if thefe happen in the fame figns, or
if they change places when rifing.,and not more than feventecn degrees
diftant, they forefue~ long and faithful frie_ndiliip; but, if they arc in..
eonjuna, or pofited in oppofite figns, they produce great and impl.tcabJc
enmity and hatred·. If the luminaries are not found in any of thefe fi~
tuations, but ·are -only eonfigurated in figns, either by trine or fextilc,
!bey fuew 1lig~t .and precari?us friend£hip; bu!, if b~ quartile, fmall and
1mpotent enmtty. Hence 1t ~appens· that fncndaups ccafe and appear
as it were at an utter end, while ·the malcfics tranfit the configuration;·
and yet, when thefe are over, the friend£hip is again renewed, and
mutual civilities and good·offices take place, as if no fuch circumftancc
had happened. So in like manner the ·malicious objeCts of hatred and
enmity feem to ceafe·and lie dormant, when the benefic ftars arc making
their ingrefs upon the configuration; but are renewed with frcih ran..
cour foon after tbefe ingrefi"cs are at an end.
,
Fricnd1hip and enmity are therefore confidcred under th&:ee kinds ; for
men are obferved to be fo. difpofcd either by cled:io(l, or for profit, or
for forrow or pleafure; and when either all or moft of the forementionC?<{
places have familiarity with each other, friendlhip is confiitut¢d by tbefe
three kinds; but, if tbcfe places arc found unagreeable, then enmity arifes
in a fimilar manner. Wben the places of the luminaries alone have fa-
miliarity, ·friendfhip will arife from clcctioo, involuntary choicer, or na..
taral regard, which is the moft firm and lalling; but, if the places of the
luminaries are ~ontrarily difpofed, hatred is .in the fame manner pro.
duced, and is the moft inveterate and fatal. When the place of part of
fortane hath familiarity, or is otherwife found, tben thefe aifed:ions
No. 23• 1 ·T . atife
Digitized by Coogle
46o AN _IL .LUSTRATION
arife from motives of ie1f-intereft or gain; but, when they are from the
horofcope, they are produced by thofe aClions of the mind which arife
from melancholy and choler, or from vivacity and good humour. But
in all thefe cafes we mufi particularly obferve the fl:ars elevated above or
configurated with each of thefe refpeClive places; for that place thall give
a higher degree of friendihip or enmity than any other, to which the
elevation or fucceffion of fiars is the nearefi, whether in the fame fign
or the adjoining. But the place which pa11es the ftars in configuration,
if the ftars are friendly, denotes advantage and interefi to be the caufe of
friendiliip; or, if difcordant ftars occur, enmity will arife from interefted
mot· es, which will expire with the caufe of it. .
The foregoing obfervations are applicable to the mofi extravagant and
Jafiing inftances of friendlbip and enmity; but thofe which arife from
'more temporary and trivial ·cauf~s have a different fpeculation. The
common occafions of friend1hip or animofity, which arife in the general
purfuit of bufinefs or pleafure, or which arife from mixing with the
world, are only to he deduced fr()m the motion of tqe fi:ars taken in
both genitures, in order to find when the fignificatqrs in one nativity
thall come· to the fame point in the other nativity; for at fuch periods
there will arife particular friendthips or enmities, which will have du-
ration no longer than .the refpeHive familiarity or _connexion of thefe
.fi:ars exift. Saturn and Jupiter, coming in this manner to each other's
places, caufe friendlbip by meeting in focieties or company; or by agree-
ment in hufuandry and agriculture, or by the joint inheritance of for-
tunes. Saturn and Mars produce fi:rife and contention, and often fore-
fuew premeditated fraud and villainy. Saturn and Venus denote Jove and
friendiliip through the interference of kindred, but it hath no duration.
Saturn and Mercury produce friendiliip by converfation or connexion in
bofinefs, fcience, or confederacy. Jupiter and Mars produce enmity by
politics, improper perferment, or interefied mcafures of government.
Jupi~er and Venus occafion friendfuip through the interference .of wo--
.men, ecclefiafiics, or teachers; Jupiter and Mercury through mutual
attachment to literature, fcience, and philofophy; Mars and Venus
caufe friendthip by a like difpofition to lafcivioufnefs, .diffipation, and
intemperance; Mars and Mercury produce enmity by fimilar intcrefts
in bufinefs, or by the fame parties following the fame avocation; but
Venus and Mercury by means of jealoufy, learning, co~refpondence by
letter, or love of women. · .
The increafe or decreafe of friendfuip and enmity is difcerned from the
nature of the poife1fed places of each fi&nificator, · compared wi~h the
1 · · firft
Digitized by Coogle
OF AST.ROLOGY. 461
firft four principal places of the figures for, if they apply to the place of
the part of fortune, or to the luminaries angular, they render the friend-
1hip or enmity more confpicuous; but, feparated and disjoined, they·
make them obfcnre and fecret. To know whether thefe affed:ions 1hall
be more or lefs injurious or advantageous, we are to obferve the force
and power of the ftars which behold the above-mentioned places, and
judge according to their quality and difpofition either to good or evil.
But, if it relates to good or evil from fervants, the place of the ruling
difpofition in refpeEl of them in the figure muft be taken from the fign
in the twelfth houfe, and from the ftars which behold the place in the
geniture itfelf, with the ingretfes or oppofition; but more particularly ·
when the rulers of the figns have either familiarity with the principal
places of the geniture, or are contrarily and unhappily configurated;
fr9m which judgment muft be made accordingly. .
Of the Natural IN<;:LINATION for TRAVELLING.
The circumftances which relate. to travelling are confidered fro~ the
pofition of the luminaries in refpeEl to the angles, but chiefly ftom thofe
ol the Moon; for, if file be found in the feventh houfe, and declining
from angles, ilie denotes ~ continual difpofition for travelling, and perpe-
tual change of place, to .the native. Mars himfelf being occidental, or
declining from the midhcaven, and having an oppofite or quartile pofi-
tion to the luminaries, will proc!uce the fame inclination in a fomewhat
]efs d.egree. But, if the part of fortune falls in the fame fign with thtf
fignificator of travelling, the principal part of the life and actions of'
the native will be fpent in a foreign country.
Whenever the benevolent planets irradiate the above,.mentioned places
of the-luminaries, or Mars, or the part of fortune; or fucceed to them,.
the ·native·s •tr-avelling will be glorious and profitable, and his return
fafe and without impediment ; but, if the malevolent ftars behold or
fucceed, the contrary effeets will be found to happen. In all thefecafes,
however, the quality and temperament of the fmaller familiarities, asthey
add to or take from the power and force of their configurations, muft
be invariably attended to. If the luminaries incline or fall to the ori-
ental quadrants, the travelling will be towards the eaftern or fouthern
parts of the globe, confidered in refpcEl to the place of birth; but, if
they are found in the occidental quadrants, the peregrination will be to..
wards the north or weft. If the Jigns in which the fignificators of tra-
velling are pofited be of one form, either in refpeet of themfelves, or
of the ftars which have the lord1hip over them, the travelling will be
. far,
Digitized by Coogle
.... ....
462 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
far, but at intervals; but~ if the figns are double-bodied, or or two
forms, it will be perpetual, and of vaft extent. It muft however be
here obferved, that, though the caufes and fuccefs of travelling are in-
fluenced by Mars and the part of fortune, yet the quarter towards-
which the peregrination 1hall be is only to be known from the pofi-
tion of the luminaries. ·
If Jupiter and Venus are rulers both of the luminaries and places of
the figure which induce travelling, the journeys will not only be com-
pleted without danger, but they will alfo be pleafant, healthy, and
agreeable; for, by the good government of the countries .b~ vifits, and
the accidental meeting of friends, he will meet with hofpitality and kind-
nefs; the conftitution of the air, and the plenty of nece1fary accommoda-
tions, contributing at the fame time .to his health and prefervation; and,
if Mercury be joined to the aforefaid configuration, an additionallhare of
honour, profit, and information, will be derived from the journey; but,
if Sa,turn and Mars poffefs or govern the flaces of the luminaries, at a
great diftance from each other, they wil occafion great dangers and a
variety of ill fortune in the courfe of the journey. Being in moil\: figns,
they ~enote misfortune by thipwreck, or falling into defolate and ina~­
ceffible places; in fixed figns, by precipices, or tempeftuous and con-
trary winds ; in tropical- and equinoCtial figns, by want of provifions,
by a fcorbutic or epidemic diforder, or by a fickly temperature of the.air;
in human figns, by the fudden attack pf mountaineers and robbers, of
lavages, or ambufcades ;. in earthy .ligns, by the attack of wild and fe-
rocious animals, or by falling into pits, or fubterrancous places J but
if Mercury gives teftimony in any of the foregoing cafes, the danger
may arife from venomous creatures, or by poifon, or fome villainous
accufation. · ·
Thefe are the general confiderations J but the more particular, (ach as
relate to the peculiar advantage or injury of each event, mull: be deduced
from the nature and property of the principal places and fignificators of
profeffion and fubftance, of dignity and.honour, or of bodily and mental
endowments, according to the rules already premifed. But the know-
ledge of. the ti~es when thefe various.inci~ents are to happen is only to
be acqu•red from the refult of the d1recbons of each refpecHvc fignifi-
cator, by the method which we 1hall prefently recommend.
Ol
.~ .: ., ;.
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T It 0 L 0 G Y.
Of the APHETA, HYLEG, PROROGATOR, or SIGNIFICATOR
of LIFE, and the Places proper thereto. ,
The aphetic, hylegiacal, or prorogatory, places, are thofe particular
places of the figure, or of the heavens, from whence the apheta, hyleg~
prorogator, or fignificator of life, is to be ta
.ken• . Thefe appellation~
ltave all the fame meaniogt and fignify that planet or ftar which is lord qf' .
life. The firft is derived from the Greek, the fecond from the. Hebcew,.
and the latter from the Latin. .
. The hylegiacal or prorogatory places are in number five, viz, thq
~fcendan~ the feventh, nintbll tenth, and eleventh, houies, and are ta-
ken from the five degrcses next and immediately above the cufp of the
afcendant to the twenty-five dc:grees below the cufp of the fame., com.
puted by oblique afcen.fioo. In the fame manner the prorogatory places.
are. determined in tbe feve~th, ninth. tenth,. and. eleventh, h.oufes ; for
ioftance1 it is computed from the five degrees in _
the eighth houfe, tG
the middle of the eleventh houfe, towards the twelfth; which middle
is eafily found, by adding half the femidiurnal arch to the right afcenfion.
of the medium c~H, and where that ends is the middle of the eleventh
houfe; the part beyon~ which is not bylegiacal or prorogatory. · Now
thefe only are the places in ·which the planet who a1fumes the power of
hyleg or giver of Ji.fe' ca11 be ioumd ; fur wbatfocver is under the earth
is not fit for fuch dominion; nor ia: any pruition above the earth~ which
hath not configuration to the horofcope. The twelfth houfe, therefore,
which is called the ~il a11gel, is not prarogatory, becau~ it not ooly de-
clines from . the angl¢-, but alfo makes the infi.uence of the ftars potited
thereio of an evil tendency, fincc it diil:urbs? and &S it wer¢ ddlroys, the
t,hick Va_pQur proceeding from the moifi:urc- of the earth., whereby they
become· contrary to nature both in colour and magnitude. ·
If the native's birth be by day, the Sun thall he taken for hyleg, pro-
ro'-ator, or giver of life, if he be found in any of the foregoing hylegiacal
places;. if he b~ not,, then or,ferve whether the Moon be potited in either
<>f them,· an.d, if fo, then the £hall be taken for fignificator of life. But·
if neither of the lu~ninaries be fo found, tlhen any planet whatfoever, that
h~th moft dignities in the place of the Sun at the l'receding conjunction
With the Moon, a~d in the horofcope, ·fhall be preterred as 6gnihcator of
life. It rnuft however be remembered, that this planet muft be dignified
three ways or more, in one of the above-mentioned·plac~s, to be to pre-
ferred; but, if no ptaoet iliould be found fo d'igniJied, or, if dignified, not
.in an aphetica} place, then take the afcendan~ for giver of life.
If the ti~e of bi.rth ~appens ·to be by. night. the Moo':llhall be p.re-:
!-~rrc~ for g1ver of hfe, 1f the be pofited m any of the aphetical places of
No. 23. 5 U the
Digitized by Coogle
-¢+ A N l L L U S T R A T. I 0 N
the figure. If the be not, then the Sun fuall be preferred, if found in
any of thefe places; but, if neither Sun nor Moon be fo fituated, then any
planet whatever, which was moft dignified in the place of the preceding
full Moon, and in the place of the part of fortune, thall be preferred. If
none fuch are found in the geniture, the afcendant lhall be taken· for
giver of life, if a conjunaion preceded; but, ifit was a full Moon, then
the part of fortune muft be preferred. If both the luminaries, or feveral
of the planets which atfume the power of fignificator of life by the·.
above-mentioned conditions, are found together in thr. aphetical places,
and feem to contend for dominion of prorogation, then that Chall be pre-
ferred which is found in the mofi: principal place of the luminaries, whe-
ther it be the Sun, Moon, or any other planet whatever. The princi~
pal places of the luminaries are th~fe : nrft, in the medium creli; next,
in the afcendant ; then, in the eleventh houfe; next to that, the feventh;
and, lafi:ly, the ninth houfe. Accordiog to this order, therefore, by the
genethliacal figure at the time of birth, fuall the fignificator of life be
fought out and afcertained.
Of the ANARETICAL or KILLING PLANET, and of the
. Q!JALITY of DEATH. ·
The anaretic or killing places arc; tbe places of Saturn and Mars.
which kill according to the direClion of thehyleg to the fucceeding figns.
·when they meet either bodily, or caft their rays from any place of the
figure, whether it be by quartile or oppofition; and fometimes it hap-
pens by fextiles, when they proceed from figns obedient or beholding,
becaufe they have then the fame efficacy with the quartile or oppofition.
"So likewife a quartile, configurated from the foJlowing or fucceeding
figns to the aphetic place; and a)fo a fextile evilly affected, when .in
figns of long afcenfion • and even the trines, in 1hort afcenfions, have ·
fufficient force to kill, when unimpeded by benefic rays; as will alfo the
folar place, if the Moon be hyleg. But it muft be remembered that
thefe places are only. anaretic when they are evilly affected; for their
anaretic or killing power is impeded or deftroyed, whenever it falls in the
terms of a benefic ftar, or whenever the benefics caft a fextiJe, quartile,
trine._ or.oppofitional, ray to the very anaretical point, or to thofe points
· which follow. Hence life is generally found to be preferved, when Ju-
piter is not above twelve degrees difiant from the anareta or killing pla-
net; or when Venus is not more than eight. The zodiacal afpcets of
the anaretic or killing ftars will be Hkewife of little force, whenever the
latitude of the apheta, or giver of life, and that of the anareta, or de-
Jlr.oxer oi life, doth not correfpond.
When
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
. When the ~ffifting and anaretic rays are found two or more on each fide,
we muft obferve which of the~ exceed :noft in number and power, which
is ·to be underftood when the benefics or anaretas are fome of them in
proper places of the figure, and others not; particularly when fome are.
oriental, and others occidental, either in refpeel: of the Sun or the figure
itfclf; for in general no planet under the beams of the Sun hath power
to kill or fave, unlefs when the Moon is giver of life; in which cafe the
place of the Sun, being affiicted by fome malefic planet joined to it, and
receiving no help from benefic rays, will certainly produce death; but,
if any benevolent configuration irradiates the place, the native's life will
be preferved.
To define the caufe and quality of death, we muft confider whether it
.is likely to happen by means of the beams of the malefic fi:ars being caft
orientally ; for the place of the malefic or anaretical planet, if joined by
body, or, if not, the place of the afped, ought carefully to be obterved,
in order to judge of the quality of death. If thefe deftruetive beams flow
occidentally, confider the occidental place of the ftar .,. for, fuch as they
are which have dignities in the anaretic place, fuch will be the quality
of death; or, if no planet hath dignities therein, then fuch as before others
are carried by their motions to thefe ariaretic places are to be efteemed
~he caufers of death, and our judgment 1hou~ be regulated thereby; the
configurations of the ftars made thereto being likewife confidered, to- .
gether with the nature of the figns and the terms in which they fall. ·
Saturn, po1feffing the dominion of death, caufeth death by chronic
diftempers, phthyfics, fluxes, agues, difeafes of the fpleen, droplies~
iliac and hyfteric diftempers, and, in a word, by all thofe diforders
arifing from abundance of cold. Jupiter produceth death by the quinzey, ~
inflammation of the lungs, apoplexy, cramps, ~nd cardiac aff~Cl:ions, and
by thofe diforders which happen with vehement and ftinking breath-
ing. Mars caufeth death by continual fevers, femi-tertians, fudden ftrokes
and nephritic affeCtions. fpitting of blood and hemorrhage, by abortion
and birth, and St. Anthony•s fire, and by all diforders which arife from
abundance of heat. Venus induceth death by affeCtions of the fro-
mach and liver, ringworms, and bloody flux'; al!o by putrefaCl:ion and
fiftulas, and giving of poifon 1 and, in a word, by all thofe complaints
which proceed from ahu.ndance of moifture, or through want or wafting
thereof. Mercury deftroys life by madnefs, extafy. and melancholy;
falling ficknefs, coughs, and fpitting affeCtions, and by thofe which hap-
pen fimply through much drinefs, or a want thereof.. And thefe deaths
happen
Digitized by Coogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
happen ~aturally, when the rulers of death arc in their proper and natu-
ral quality, and none of the malefics concur. ·
Violent and remarkable deaths happen when both the malefics are
lords of the anaretic places, or when both or one of the two arc joined to,
.or fquare, or oppofe, or evilly affetl, both of the luminaries, or the Sun
alone, or the MOQn; for then the mifcbievot,~fnefs and violence of death is
produced by the evil affeCtions of the malefics. But the remarkablenefs
.and excraordioary cir<;umftances of the death proceed from the teftimony
of the lights; an4 its quality is known frQm the reft of the afpecHng
fiars, and the figns containing the malefi.cs. Saturn therefore ir~o quar-
tile or oppofition to the Sun, orientally, and in fixed fign~, caufeth death
by fuffocation, tumults of the peQp\e, or by hanging or ftrangling; in
like manner he doth the fame if he be occidental, and the Moon follow;
o.r, if he be in beaft-like figns or plac;es, ~ eaufeth to perilh by beafts;
and Venus, be~ng jointed to them, caufeth death by poifoo, or by the
treachery of women. If he is in Vifgo or Pifc:es, or in moifi figns, con-
fi.gl,lrated to the Mo_on, he will c~ufe de~th by water, by being futfocated
and drown~; if he be. a,bout Ar&o,. by fuipwreck; if he be in tropical or
equinoCtial figns. the Sqn being with him, or oppofing, or if Mars be
there, he will cauf~ death by the effe&s o£ a fall ; if they arc in the tenth
houfe, death will happen by precipitation ffom Of\ high,; thus Saturn
caufes tbefe c:ffcets, being configurat®. to the luminarie$. ·
Mars in quartile or oppofition to the Sun, and the Sun or Moon ori•
ental, in figns of human form, will caufe death by flaughter, either
civil or hoftile, or by laying violent hands upon himfelf. If Venus g.ivc
teftimony, death will enfue by means of women; if Mercury IDe configu..
rated to them, death will enfue. b.y robbers, and evil doers. and pirates.
If he be in mutilated or imperfect figns, or witb the Gorgon of
ferfc:us, he will induce to death by beheading, o& by the etf~ of a~pu­
tation. Being found in Scorpio or Taurus. he will caufe 4e~~h by me-
dical cutting and burning, or by contraCtioQ.S.; but.. if he.be found in the
midheaveo, or op~fite to the midh.eaven, he; ~.ill cau.fe death by.bauging ;.
particularly if he be foundabou.t Cepheus and. Andromeda•. If he be found
in the weft, or oppofite t.o the horQ{cope~ he will ca~fe deatb by fire .i
but, if be be foWld in fo~rfQoted !igns, he. will. ca~fe d~tb b}' flllling, or
by the breaking of lirubs. If Jupiter gives tcftimony to Man, a,nd he;
evilly afTeaed, death will happen through the anger of pri~ces, or by
condemnation. If the malefi.cs efpeciaUy agree together, aod both of
them evilly affeCt any !>f the faid places, they rnake the cruelty of the
death the greater. The quality of death, and the ruling thereof, always
' vvill
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
will be thewn by the ftar that is in the anaretic place; but death will
happen in firange places when the fiars which poffefs the anaretic point
fall from angles; and efpecially when the Moon is either found with, or
in quJrtile or oppofition to, the f~id places.
-Thus the caufe and quality of death are to be fought out, and the ex-
tent of life known, by the refult of the directions of each refpeaive fig-
nificator, either direct, , by which the anaretic point is carried to the
place of the giver of life; or converfe, by the hyleg being carried to .
the weft angle, which alone of all converfe direCtions hath power to
cut off life.
Of D I R E C T I 0 N S.
A direCtion, or an arch of direCtion, is the pathway or track defcribed
in the heavens by any planet that is fignificator, or that affumes the do-
minion or government of life, or any other incident or event peculiar
to the native, from the moment of birth to its meeting or forming an
afpea with the anaretas, or promittors, at which time the event, be
it what it may, that is indicated thereby, comes to pafs. For, as all the
heavenly bodies conftantly move in circles, their progrefs, whether for a
long or lhort time, will neceffarily form arches, the content or degrees of
which, being accurately found, and meafured, or equated by the folar mo-
tion, will defcribe the length of time,, whether it be years, months, or
days, which the fignificator will be in forming the arch of direction
· which produces the event. Now thefe directions are known by the
folJowing rules, and are of two diftinet clafft:s, the firft of which is zo-
diacal, or according to the circle of the zodiac; and the fecond, mun-
dane, or according to the motion of the plant:ts round the earth, or in re-
latio~ to their proportional d.iftance from the ieveral houfes of the figure.
Z 0 D I A C A L D I R E C ~T I 0. N S.
How to dirdl the SUN,. being- in or near the 1l!Iidheaven, nmwly, when he
is either on, or not more than three d~·greesfrom, the cu.fp ofthe Hntfl.
Firft, Take the right afcenfion of the Sun, and~hen the place of the
afpetl to which it is to be directl!d, viz. the right at(;cnfion of the afpeet,
whether it be a conjunCtion or oppo!ite; the latitude in this cafe is to
be neglected if he. hath not greater Lltitude than his oro; if he harh, it
is not to be neglcCied; this is the diff:rcnce between the horizontal (or
mundane) and zodiacal afpeds, becau(c they are made from the greateft
. No. 23. 5 X nearncfs
/'
Digitized by Coogle
468 A N I L L U S T R A .T I 0 N .
nearqefs to the greateft diftance of the ftan amongft themfdves; and
above the real path of them in the zodiac. The greatcft nearnefs hap-
pens in the fame partite longitude, although they are difrant and differ
according to latitude; unlefs, as I have {aid, the latitude, in either oppo•
fition or conjunction, exceeds the greatnefs of their orb; if it be greater,
then is the ·cenjunction or oppofition in the zod,iac of· f~all force; now
fubtra8: the right afcenfion of the Sun from the right afcenf10n of· the
planet's afpeB:, and the remainder in the arc~ of dire8:ion. As for ex-
ample, fuppofe the medium cceli, in eight degrees fifteen minutes of-Scor-
pio, and the Sun in eight degrees twenty-one minutes of the fame fign,
to be directed to the conjunCtion of Venus in twenty-two de$rees forty-
~ five minutes of Sagittary. The right afcenfion of the Sun is two hundred
fifteen degrees fifty-eight minutes, the right afcenfion of Venus is two
hundred and fixty-two degrees eight minutes; fubtraCl the right afcen-
fion of the Sun from the right afcen·fion of Venus, and there remains for~
ty-fix degrees ten minutes, which is the true arch of direction; and which,
if equated, or turned into time, according to the folar motion, by the rules
hereafter laid down, will thew the time when this afpetl will b(! formed.
How to diret1 the SUN, being near the Horoftope •or flventh Houft.
Take the oblique afcenfion of the Sun, in the latitude of the place, if
it be in the afcendant, apd near the cufp thereof; but, if near the cufp of
the feventh houfe, .his oblique defcention or the oblique afcenfion of his
oppofite place; then take the oblique afcenfion or .oblique defcenfion of
the afpeCts, under the fame pole, ftill neglecling their latitude if it be
not greater than their orb; then fubtraa the oblique aicenfion of the Sun
from the oblique afcenfion of the afpe~ and the remainder is the arch
of direCtion required. ·
How to. diret1 the SUN above the Earth, being far diflant from·ony if the
cardinal Houfls. 1f the Sun be aoove the Earth, and sbove three l)egrees
diflantfrom the Cujp tifthe cardinal Houfts, do thus:- ,
Take·the diftance of the Sun from the midheaven in rightafcenfion, and
from that fubtratt the right afcenfion of the nfpeCls, which we call the
£rft difiance J then get the fc:midiurnal arch of the Sun, and alfo of the
afpeCls, and by the rule of proportion fay, if the femidiurnal arch of the
Sun gives that right afcenfional difiance, what fhall the kmidiurnal arch
<>f the afpetl or promittor give? the product 1hall be the {econdary
.right
Digitized by Goog e
0 F A S T R .0 L 0 G Y.
right afcenfion; and, if both be made in the·afcending part of heaven,-
fubtra6t the fecon'dary afcenfion from .the primary, and the remainder is
the arch of direCtion.
Another Way.
Take the elevat~on of the pole of the Sun, and therein the oblique
afcenfion of the Sun, and likewife the oblique afceufion of the afped::
fubtraCl: one from the other, and the 'remainder is the arch of direCtion.
For this reafon, I have.fet the table of the eleventh, third, twelfth, and
fecond, houfes, from thirty to fixty degrees of north or fouth latitude.
How to take the Pole ifPqfition, commonly called tht Circle ifPqfition, ifth!
SUN or any other Sz"tnfficator.
·Firft obferve whether the fignificator be above or under the earth : if
above, get his femidiurnal arch~ if under, his feminotiurnal; . which,
being obtained, muft be converted into degrees and minutes, whereof
one third part is the pole of one houfe; then take the ftar's dilbnce from
the neareft houfe to which he is placed, and by the rule of proportion
fay, if the third part of the femidiurnal or feminod:urnal arch of the fig-
nificator gives the pole of the other hollfe, what Gull his dill:ance give ?
which if it falls in the third, fourth, ninth, or tenth, houfes, the remain-
.der is the pole of pofition; but, if it falls in the fidl, fecond, fifth,
fixth, feventh, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, add or fubtratl: it to or from
the pole of the fucceeding or preceding houfe; as for example: the
Moon's femidiurnal arch is eight hours fifteen minutes; a third part is
two boars forty-five minutes; which, convcrtedinto degrees, give forty-
one degrees fifteen minutes for the fpace of one houfe; the Moon's dif-
tance from the tenth houfe in right afcenfion is thidy-three degrees fifty
minutes, the pole of the eleventh houfe is twenty.:three degrees r then by
the rule of proportion fay, if forty-one degrees fifteen minut:s, being the
fpace of one houfe, give twenty-three degrees, the pole of the eleventh
houfe, what !hall thirty-three degree fifty minutes give ? It gives eigh-
teen degrees fifty-two minutes for the Moon's true circle or pole of pofi-
tion. But, bec~ufe it is near nineteen degrees, I take nineteen degrees
for her pole; and note, that; if odd minutes at any time exceed thirty,
accept of it as a whole degree; but, if they be under thirty, then rejeCt
them entirely.
!low
Digitized by Coogle
470 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
HrYr.o t:; riircrt th~ SU1V to any .AJpeE!, being under the Earth, in the Spau
qf 'T'loiligbt.
The Sun, being found in the fpace of twilight, ought to be direaed
above parallel circles to the horizon, and not above horary circles, as
when the Sur'l is above the earth. If the Sun be found in the morning
twilight, fidl: direC.~ the Sun to the degree of the afpect under the lati-
tude of the phce, although the Sun is not there, and afterwards take
the difiance of the Sun from the horofcope, in oblique afcenfion, which
call the Sun's primary difl:ance; and be careful that this diitance be, not
· greater than the parallel of twilight, which does not exceed eighteen de-
grees, for, if it be, the Sun is not in that parallel, and in this cafe.you mull:
work by the following rule; but, if the Sun be in the parallel of twilight,
then, with the diftance of the Sun from the horizon above taken, enter
the table of twilight under the htitude of the place, \'1\•hich is in the top
·of the table, and with the fign and degree in the head or foot of the table:
and in the angle of meeting. or body of the table, find the diftance of
the Sun from his riling, and obferve the degree of the parallel of twi-
light, which .tlie Sun pofrefies in the fidl: column, taking the proper-
tiona} part of the Sun's place to degrees; and under the fame parallel
look out the diftance of the direCtion, that is to fay, what difiance the
Sun is from the horofcope, in that parallel of twilight; and this diftance
call the fecondary difiance; then, if both the firft and fecond difiance are
equal, the true arch of direCtion is that which was firft taken in the
horofcope; but, ~f they are not equal, fubtratl the )efs from the greater,
and the remainder call the oriental difiance; and, if the ft·condary diftance
be greater than the primary, then fubtrati the oriental difiance from the
arch of direction, and the remainder is the true arch of direction, which
is to be equated as before. In feeking the primary difiance of the Sun
from the horofcope, in the tables of twilight hereafter inferted, it is
fufficient to take the proportional part of the degree only, rejecting the
minutes, which, when taken, note the degree of the depreffion or paral-
lel of t\vilight,. afld in the right line with parallel diilance find the
neareft proportional diftance, which when found by proportional parts,
the firft primary natural difl:ance of the Sun may be neglected, for it i~ not
necdfary to take the degrees and minutes of the depreflion of ·twilight, but
it is only the greatefi and the nearefi degree of the Sun's longitude with the
proportional part; as for example: the Sun directed to the quartile of
Mercury in no degree of Cancer, Mercury being in no degree of Aries at
birth ; at the fame time eleven degrees of Pifces afcend. In the latitude
forty...four degrees, the Sun being in Aries, fifteen degrees forty-fix mi-
nutes,
Digitized by GoQgl~
0 F . A S -T R 0 L 0 G Y.
nutes, the oblique afcenfion of. the afcendant in that. latitude is three
hundred forty-nine degrees forty-five minutes, the oblique afcenfion of
the fun, with the circle, is three hundred and fixty-eight degrees twenty-
eight minutes, the ditfaence is eighteen de5~ ees forty-three minutes;
enter the table of twilight in the latitude of forty-four degrees, and
there look for ·this diftan~e~ eighteen degrees forty-three minutes, an :l
alfo for fixteen degrees of Aries, which cannot be found; but there is ·
ten degrees and twenty degrees, which is near enough; now under ten de-
grees _
of Aries is eighteen degrees. thir-ty two minutes; Jnd under twenty
degrees, I find nineteen degrees one minute, the difft:rence is twenty-
nine minutes; then I fay, 1f ten degrees give twenty-nine minutes, what·
1hall fix degrees give? anfwer, feventcen minutes, which, being added to
eighteen degrees thirty-two minutes, make eighteen degrees forty-nine
minutes, and againft that in the firft column is the parallel of twilight
thirteen degrees required.
• I
Now the Sun's primary difiance, viz. eighteen degrees forty-three mi-
nutes, being negteaed as aforefaid, I take eighteen degrees forty-nine mi-
nutes; then looking out the afpeet, which falls in no degrees of Cancer,
under the latitude forty-four degrees, and thirteen degrees parallel of twi-
light, I find twenty-four degrees forty-five minutes, .which is the fecoit-
dary diftance, and is greater than the primary by five degrees fifty-fix
minutes; the oblique afcenfion of the·Sun is eight degrees twenty-eight
minutes, and the oblique afcenfion..of the afpcct is fixty-five degrees ten
minutes, and both underthelatitudeof forty-fourdegrees. Now Ifubtratl
the oblique afcenfion of the Sun from the oblique afcenfion of the af-
pe~t, and the difference is fifty-fix de.grees forty-two minutes. And, be-
- caufe the fecondary diftance .is greater than the primary, I fubtract five
degrees fifty-fix minutes from the afon:faid fifty-fix degrees forty-two
minutes, and ther~ remains fifty degrees forty-fix minutes, the true arch of
direction required, which is to be equated as before. If the Sun is to be
direCted at evening twilight, all things mu!l: be noted as before, but jull:
contrary in all the operations, or elfe taken in oblique afcenfion to all the ·
oppofite places.
tfo direci the ·sun, being found beyond the Parallel of Twilight, under the
Earth.
If the Sun be found under the earth, .whether oriental or occiden-
tal, out of the parallel of twilight: Firfi take his feminoaurnal arch,
and from thence fubtraCl his whole arch of twilight, and keep the re-
mainder, which is the obfcure arch; afterwards take the feminoclurn.1l
arch of the afpeB:, from whence fubtraCl his whole arch of twilight,
No. 24• ·5 Y · and
Digitized by Coogle
...
+7'- A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
and the 'remainder is the obfcure arch of the afpect. Next take the
difi.ance hoth of the Sun and afpect from the fourth houfe in right tftenfion;
then by the rule of proportion fay, lf.th.: whole arch of pbfcurity of the
Sun gives his difiance fr•An, the fourth houfe, what lhall the arch of
obf,urity of the afpect give~ which diftance being found, obferve the
fame rules as in directing the Sun above the earth, and 'onfider the arches
of obfcurity the fnme as the fetnidiu~nal or feminocturnal arches:
For Exampk; ·
Let the Sun, in eleven degrees forty-five minutes of Aquaries, be4"di-
, rcctcd to an afpect in twenty-two degrees thirty-five minutes of Pifces;
the feminocturnal arch of the Sun is feven hours feven minutes, the whole
arch of twilight being fubtracted, which is one hollr forty-three minutes,
the remaining .five hours twenty-four minutes is the ar~h of obfcurity;
the Sun's difiance from the fourth houfe, in right afceofion, is forty degrees
eleven mi.nutes. Now the feminocturnal arch of the afoect is fix hours cb-
ven minutes, and his archof twilight is one hour thirty-~ine minutes, which
being fu btracted from the {eminocturnal arch, leaves tour hours thirty-two
rninutc.:.s for t_he arch of obfcurity. The diftance of the afpect from the
fourth houfe in right afcenfio.n is feventy-nine degrees ten minutes; then
.by the rule of proportion fay, If five hours twenty-four·minutes give forty
degrees eleven minutes, what £hall four hours thirty-two minutes give?
thirty three degrees forty-four minutej, the arch of direction required•.
'Io direCI the Sun to Zodiacal Para/Ids, !Jeilzg found in any Part of tb~
Heavens.
Fidl find the declination of the promittors, with latitude if they have
any, and fee what degree and minute of the Ecliptic anfwers to.that
dec.lination, which is its parallel; if the Sun be near the cardinal houft:s;,
his direction l.s as aforefaid, but, if farther diftant, then direct under his
proper pole 9f pofition, as above fpecified.
To direCI a Signfficator, baving· Latitude, to any ConjunC!ion or AJPeB.
. .
As the Sun keeps his true courfe in the Eclipt~c, fo the reft of the
planets which have latitude, when they come to be directed to any
afpect, move in their own fpheres acconiing to their fucceffion of la-
titude. We calli~ fucceffion, becaufe it is not always the fame, but is
changed according to the greateft diftance or nearnefs that they are to-
the nodes; therefore it follows, that a Significator having latitude when
he is to be directed to any afpect, the latitude of the afpect is to be neg-
. lected,
•
· Digitized by Coogle
0 F A ·S T ' R .Q L 0 G Y. 473
leered, and the latitude which the fignificator hath at that place where
the afpeCt falls .is to be taken ; and- the direClions are the fame as the
others; only negleHing the rule of the Sun's dirccHon under the earth.
'To direEI a Significator, ~aving Latitude, to Parallels.
Firft find the declination of the ftar, to whofe parallel you would di-
reR a fignificator with latitude, which when found, enter the tables of
declination with the latitude the fignificator lhall have in that place, un-
til you come to' the degrees ·and minutes of the promittor's declination:
.As for Example.
·I w?uld di'reEI the Moon to the Parallel of Saturn..
Suppofe s'aturn to .be in thirteen degrees of Pifces, and his latitude one
degree fouth ; his declination will be found to be {even de-
grees thirty-
feven minutes, which in the Ecliptic anfwers to about ten degrees of
Pifces; the J'v1oon is in twenty-four degrees of Leo; now I entor the
tabh:s of di:clination under Virgo, the oppofite part, in that place where
the 1\ioon rJ:?Cets with this parallel. The ~con's north node is in nine-
teen degrees of-Cancer, fo in that place !he will have three degrees fifty-
three minutes north latitude, with which I enter the table of declination i
,
and againil: ten degrees of Virgo,· and four degrees north latitude, I find
eleven degrees thirty-three minutes, which is too ~uch; fo under the
faid four degrees of latitude I come to twenty-one degrees of Virgo, a..
g;~in£1: which I fi.nd [even degrees fifteen minutes, and under five degrees
north ·latitude I find eight degrees ten minutes, in which faid twenty-
one degrees of Virgo I tin.d what latitud~ the Moon will have, and by
her diflance from her node I find lhe hath four degrees twenty-.thret: mi-
nutes north latitude. Now the diffl!rence between {even degrees fifteen
minutes and eight-degrt:es ten minutes is fifty-five minutes; therefore·
I fctr, If fixty minutes give fifty-five minutes, what lhall twenty-three
give? anfwer, twenty-one minutes, which, aJJcd to fevcn degrees fifteen
minutes, will make feven degrees thirty-fi" minutes, which thews, that ,
twentf-one degrees of Virgo is the true parallel of Saturn.
How to direEI a Significator to his own proper .AfpeCis.
Firll: find his longitude, that is, the longitude of his afpect in the
Ecliptic, if it be the Sun; and according to her latitude, if it be the
Moon; always obfcrving the latitude that lhe hath at the place of her af-
pect, ·which is found by her diibnce fron~ her nodes, as before taught;
then
D.igitized by Coogle
.-
474-. A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 ·N
then take the rig~l't afcenfion or _
oblique afcenfion of the afpect, both in
latitude and longitude, and· work according to the former rules; but
note that neither the afcendant nor medium creli are to be directed to any .
of the plapet's afpects in the Zodiac, but to thofe in the world only; nor
to parallels in the Zodiac, but to thofe in the Horizon or world, and to .
thefe always di.rect, and n~ver converfe. '
Of M U N D A N: E D IRE C T I 0 N S.
The · afpects in the world are proportional dill:ances by their motion
about the world; for a fiar, that lhall be dill:ant from the Horizon a-third
part of his diurnal arch, flull call: hii fextile to the afcendant; and, if he
be half his diurnal arch, he \vill call: a quartile to the afcendant; and
two third parts of his arch is a trine, and his whole arch is an oppofition;
therefore the firft houfe is in fe~tile to the eleventh and thirp, and in
quartile to the tenth and fourth; in trine to the ninth and fifth, and in op-
pcfition to the feventh; and fo of the refi. And, although the diurnal and
nocturnal arches differ among th~mfelves, yet the houfes have no dif-
ti.netion, property, nature, or force, of themfelves, but what they re..
ceive trom the ll:ars, and in the divifion of the houfes hy double horary
ti_mes, accordiJ?g·to the method and rules of Ptolemy. The houfes have
no more refpect to the Ecliptic than if there were no fuch thing; for ·
they have only refpect to the femidiurnal and femino£:1u.rnal arches of the
·ftars; and the afpeels they make in the world, to any houfe or from any
houfe, have no refpect to the Ecliptic but according to their femidi-
urnal .and feminotlurnal a~ches, or according to their motion about the
world; which being rightly con6dered, and well undcrfiood, will render
the whole mundane art of direCtions very eafy.
To diretl the Mid-heavm or the Afl:endant to the Sexti'lr, ff<..yartile, or Tniu,
qf any Star.
If you would direa the mid-:heaven to a fextile of any fi~r that is
placed either in the twelfth, afcendant, or fecond houfe, you have onty
to do thus: take the oblique afcenfion of the cufp of the twelfth houfe,
under its proper pok, and under the fame pole the oblique afcenfion of
the promittor; fubtraet the one from the other, and you will have the
arch of direCtion. For: obferve, that, when the houfe is directed to the
b0dy of any planet, at the fame·time the n1id-heaven comes to the (ex-
tile, and., when the afcendant comes to the body of any fiar, at the fame
time the mid-heaven is directed ·to the quartile thereof; and, when the
cufp of the fecond houfe is direc1ed to the body of a ftar, then the mid-
heaven
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 0 Y. 475
hea\'en'comes to the trine; fo that, by always obferving this rule, it will
be impoffible to err; for thefe ~fpeCts in the world are not made by their
difl:ance in figns, degrees, and minutes, but by their difiance according
to the order or fucceffion of the houfes, which difl:ances are afcertained
by the femidiurnal or feminotlurnal arches.
The fame rule is alfo to be followed in direaing the afcendant as was
obferved in the mid-heaven; for, if it be required to direB: the afcendant
to a fextile, we have no more to do than to direct the cufp of the eleventh
houfe if the promittor be above the earth, or the cufp of the third
houfe if he be under the earth, to his body; in both of which cafes
the afcendant will be found to come to his fextile. If it be required to
direa the afcendant to a quartile, obferve whether the promittor be
above the earth ; and. if {o, direct the mid-heaven to his body; b1.H, if un-
der the earth, direCt the cufp of the fourth houfe to his body, either of
which operations will bring the afcendant to his quartile ; but, if the
afcendant is to be _direCted to a tdne, then, if the promittor be above
the earth, direa the cufp of the ninth houfe to his body; but, if under
the earth, the cufp of the fifth houfe, which will in the fa~e manner
bring the afcendant to his trine. By an attention to thefe rules, the
angular houfes may at all times be directed with fingular eafe and exatl:-
nefs; for, having found the cufp of the houf~ 1equired, we are to direct
under the pole of that houfe, let the pofition of the fl:ar be wh~re it will l
which if rightly done, the direaion will never fail of being true.
CJ'o direEI tke .AJcendani or Medium-cceli to tbe ConjunEJion or Opp~tion if
any Star. .
To direCt the medium-cceli to a conjunCtion or oppofition, take the
right afcenfion of the tenth houfe from the right afcenfion of the fl:ar,
with latitude; and after the fame manner the conjunCtion, with con-
trary latitude; the remainder is the arch of direttion fought. But, in di-
recting the afcendant to the conjunCtion of a fiar, fubtraH the oblique
afcenfion of the afcendant from the oblique afcenfion of the fl:ar, with
latitude, if any ; and in the fame manner for an oppofition, only with
contrary latitude, and the remainders will be the arches of diretlion
·required.
Another Way to dire81 the .Aflendant.
Subtract the femidiurnal arch of the fl:ar from his right afcenfion,
and from the remainder fubtraCl: the right afcenfion of the medium-
No. 24, 5 Z cceli,
Digitized by Coogle
476 .A N I L L U S T R A T l 0 N
cceli, and there will remain the true arch of direction of the afcendant.
as before. By the fame operation the afcendant may be directed to any
of the fixed ftars.
Another Way to dire8 the Medium-cteli, to a Sextile, ff<.gartile, or Trine.
Firfi: enter the tables of declination with the ftar's place, a~d take its·
declination according to -its latitude, obferving to what degree of the
ecliptic that declination anfwers ; if it be above the greateft obliquity,
,work by the tables of afcenfional difference, and find its femidiurnal
arch ; but, if the declination be within twenty-three degrees thirty mi-
nutes, enter the tables of femidiurnal arches, and look for the corref-
ponding degrees in the ecliptic, and againft it will be found the fcmi-
diurnal arch in hours and minutes, which mufi: be converted into degrees
and minutes of the equator, whereof two thirds make a ·fextile, which
mufi: be added to the right afcenfion of the ftar, if it be pofited in the.
occidental part ·of the heavens; but, if it be in an oriental pofition, then ·
fubtract the t~o-thirds of the equator: for example, fuppofe the right
afcenfion of the medium-cceli to be two hundred and twenty degrees,
which anfwers to twelve degrees twenty-feven minutes of Scorpio, and a
·planet were in twenty-eight degrees of Sagittarius, havingeleven minutes
of north latitude, his declination will be twenty-three degrees twenty
minutes, which anfwers to twenty-three degrees ofSagittarius; with this
I enter the tables of femidiurnal arches, under the latitude of the place,.
viz. fifty-two degrees, which I find to be three hours forty-fix minutes,
and, being converted into degrees and minutes of the equator, make fifty-
two degrees thirty minutes. Now two-thirds thereof is thirry-feven
degrees forty minutes; which, being fubtracted from two hundred and
fi:xty-feven degrees forty-nine minutes, the planet's right afcenfion, leaves
two hundred and thirty degrees nine mi.nutes for the right afcenfion of
the fextile of the planet; from whence the right afcenfion of the medium-
cceli being fubtracted, there will remain ten degrees nine minutes, the
true arch of direction to the fextiJe. The directions to a quartile or trine
are performed in a fimilar manner.
Another Way to direCI the Aftendant to a Sexti'le, ~uartile, or Trine, A.fpeB
ifany Planet.
If the afcendant is to be directed to the afpect of a planet above the
earth, divide the f~midiurnal arch of the planet into three equal parts,
and ad~ two of thofe parts to the oblique afcenfion of the planet, taken
under the pole of birth, and from that fubtract the oblique afcenfion of
the afcendant, and the remainder is the arch of direction to a fextile.
By .
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 471
By the fame operation the afcendant is directed to the quartile and trine
afpects ; only obferving to take four of thofe parts for a trine~ and the
whole femidiurnal arch for a quartile. It is proper juft to remark~ that
the afcendant and mid-heaven are never to be directed to zodiacal afpe~ts,
but to thofe only in the world.
Another Way to dirt8 the .Aftendant• .
Take one-third part of the femidiurnal arch of the planet from its
right afcenfion, and from the remainder fubtract the right afcenfion of
the mid-heaven, and the refidue is the true arch of direction to the {ex-
tile afpect, as before. If the third part of the femidiurnal arch of the
planet be added to its right afcenfion, and from that fum the right af-
cenfion of the mid-heaven be deducted, there will remain the true arch
of direction to a trine.
But it mull: be carefully remembered, that, in all cafes where directions
are to be brought to the afpects <?f planets under the earth, we are to divide
the feminocturnal arch of the planet into three parts, and to work by
the right afcenfion -of the fourth houfe, inftead of that of the mid·
-heaven,
but in all other refpects the operation is the fame.
Another Way to dirc8 the .Afccndant to a §(gartilt AJPeCI.
Take the oblique afcenfion of the planet, under the pole of birth,
with latitude if any, and ta that add its femidiurnal or feminocturnal
arch, according as the planet may be pofited, either above or under t·he
earth; from this fum fubtract the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant,
and the remainder is the arch of direction to the quartile afpect. By a
proper attention to thefe fimple and eafy rules, the whole myftery and
difficulty of the art of directions, which has fo long embarralfed modern
·aftrologers, will be ~ntirely removed.
How to dire8 tbe 4fcendant or Medium-cteli to a Semt'quartile, ~lint/It,
Sejquiquadrate, or Biqui'ntz"fe, .dJPecf.
The fame operation is to be followed in thefe directions as are given
above for the fextiles, quartiles, and trines, with this difference only,
that a femiquartile, heing only half the quartile, and the quintile onJy a
fifth part, are to be fubtracted in that proportion from the femidiurnal or
f:minocturnal arches ; the fdquiquadrate is the femidiurnal or feminoc-
~urnal arch, and half the fame added thaeto; and the biquintile is a
quintile doubled; as appears ful.ly and diftinctly by the tables of afpects.
which follow at the end of thcfe rules for directions. .
Th~
Digitized by Coogle
/
AN '
ILLUSTRATION
Tbe true 'ft!Ietb~d ofdireCli11g a Si'gnificator. to any AjjJt£1 or Promittr;r, eitht.r
d1i·cCI or conver.ft••
If the fignificator and promittor happen both to be pofited near the
cufps of houfes, ·what hath been obferved in the rules for directing the
afcendant and mid-heaven may ferve here ; for it only requires to bring
them both to the cufps of the houfes to which they are near, and it will
form the afpect that is bet~een the houfes. But in cafes where the fig-
nificator and promittor are differently pofited, the following rules muft
be obferved.
Suppofe a fignificat.or to be pouted in the tenth houfe, and to be di-
rected to.the fextile of a promittor in the twelfth or eighth houfe ; firft
take the diftance of the fignificator in right afcenfion from the tenth
houfe, which call the primary diftance; then take the diftance of the
promittor from the twelfth houfe, which referve ; next take the femi-
diurnal arch of the fignificator, and alfo of the promittor; add the two
arches together, and fay, by the rule of proportion, If two arches give
the diftance of the promittor from the twelfth 'houfe, what flull the
femidiurnal arch of the fignificator give? which when found, add it to
the primary diftance of the fignificator, and the fum will be the arch
· of direction required. But it muft here be obferved, that, if the fignifi-
cator had been placed beyond the cufp of the tenth houfe, or in the
ninth houfe, then the primary diftance muft be fubtracted from the fe-
condary, and the remainder will be the arch of direction. The fame
rule is to be followed for the quartile afpect, if the promittor be in the
atcendant; but, if the promi ttor be pofited either in the fecond or fixth
houfe, then the fame rule muft be'.followed for the trine, always remem-
bering to take the feminocturnal arch inftead of the femidiurnal, when
- the direction is to or from a planet under the earth•
.Another Way.
If a fignificator be pofited within three degrees of the mid-heaven, take
his right afcenfion, and the right afcenfion alfo of the promittor's body
?r oppofition, together with his latitude; but, if the fignificator be with-
m three degrees of the afcend:mt, then take the oblique afcenfion both
of the r;Jnificator and promittor, under the pole of the houfe, and Cub-
tract the fignificator from the promittor, regarding his latitude ifhe hath
any, and the n:mainder is the arch of direction.required; which_. if right-
ly performed, will never be found to err.
It
oi_
gitized by Coogle
0 F. A-.S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 479
It may here be remarked, that, if the fignificator and promittor he _
upon or within three degr!=es of the cufp of any other houfe, the-direc- ·
tion is the fame with the houfe, and may he directed under the pole of
that houfe, or by- right afcenfion if upon the mid-hea-
ven as before ;
but, if they ar.e in the defcending.part, then ufe the oppofite places. For
example: fu.ppofe the Sun were to be directed to a fextile of Jupiter, the
Sun being on the cufp of the ninth houfe, in five degrees of Leo, and
Jupiter in eighteen degrees of Cancer, the pole of birth being forty-four
degrees. Now I take the oppofite fign and degree, becaufe the Sun and
Jupiter are both in the defcending part of the heavens; the poles of the
ninth and third houfes are eighteen degrees, and the oblique afcenfion
of t~e Sun•s oppofite place is three hundred and fourteen degrees nearly;
from whence I fubtract fixty degrees, and the remainder, which is two
hundred and 6fty-fqur degrees, is the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant.
Now the oblique a_fcenfion of Jupit~r·s. oppofite place, under the pole of
eighteen degrees, IS two hundred mnety-feven degrees ; from whence I
fubtraCt the oblique.afcenfion of the afcendant, viz. two hundred and
fifty-four degrees, and there remains the arch of direEtion required,
which is forty-three degrees; becaufe, by the motion of the primum
mobile, when the afcendant comes to the oppofite place of Jupiter, the
Sun at the fame time comes to his fextile.
'Io diret1 a Sign!ficator, being above three Degrees d!Jiant from the Cu.JP if
any Hou.fo.
Find the femidiurnal arch of. the planet if above the earth, or the
feminocturnal arch if below the earth, with his diftance from the pre.
ceding or fuccee_
ding cufps of the houfes~ either of which will anfwer
the purpofe ; then take the femidiurnal or feminocturnal arch of the pro-
mittor, as his pofition either above or below the earth thall require; for,
if the afpcct be above the earth, the femidiurnal arch mull: invariably be
taken, but, if under the earth, the feminocturnal; and this may always
be readily known by the houfes themfelvcs; for the tenth houfe hath the
eighth and twelfth houfes in fextile, the firft and feventh in quartile,,and
the fixth and fecond in trine; and fo of all the reft, which is abfolutely
necetfary to be thoroughly underfi.ood, to render thefe mundane afpeas
familiar and intelligible, and therefore I mention it again here. Having
afcertained the arches as above required, fay, by the rule of propojtion,
If the femidiurnal or feminoaurnal arch of the Ggnificator gives his
diftancefrom the cufp of the.houfe, what thall the femidiurnal or femi-
noRurnal arch of the promittor give ? which when found, call it the
fecondary diftance of the promittor from the cufp of the preceding or
Ne. 24, · 6 A fuc-
Digitized by Google
.F
480 A N I L L U S T ·R A T .I 0 N
fucceeding houfe, accordiRg to which the fignificator .and promittor were
&k.en from; if they are both taken from houfes which precede, or follow,
then in either cafe fubtraCl: the lefs from the greater, and the remainder
is the arch of direction fought. But, if the fignificator be taken from the
cufp of a preceding houfe, and the promittor from the cufp of a fucceed.
ing, or vice verfa, then add the two numbers together, and the fum will
be the arch of direCtion required, as before.
'Io direfl a Significator to hi's own .A.JPeCir.
This is only applicable to the Sun and Moon, for no other fignifica-
tor can be directed this way; but when either of thefe happen to be the
fignificator, and come to their own afpeth, they are produEtive of very
remarkable effetls. The operation is quite eafy; for to bring up the di-
retl:ion of either the Sun or M~on to their proper fextile is no more than
finding the content of two third parts of their femidiurnal or feminoc-
turnal arches, according to their pofition either above or below the ho-
rizon, and that will be the true arch of direEtion to the fextile. For
the quartile, the tontent of the whole femidiurnal or feminoEturnal arch
is to be taken ; and, if a fifth part of the whole femidiurnal or feminoc-
turnal arch be added to the fextile, it will be the direCtion to the quintile
afpett; and thus, by taking fuch a proportion of thefe arches as corre-
fponds with each refpeEtive afpea, may the true arches of direction of all
of them be found.
To th'reCI a Significator to Paralkls in the World. _
Para1lels in the world fignify nothing more than the pofition of two ·
plapets, when equally diftant from any one of the four cardinal houfes;
for example, fuppofe one planet to be upon the cufp of the eleventh
houfe, and another upon the cufp of the ninth houfe, they are then in
exact mundane parallel, as being both equally diftant from the mid-
heaven, or tenth houfe. So likewife a planet upon the cufp of the ele-
venth houfe is in parallel with a planet upon the cufp of the third houfe,
being both equally diftant from the afcendant. Again, a planet, when
placed on the cufp of the eleventh houfe, is in parallel to a planet upon
the cufp of the fifth houfe, becaufe they are both equally diftaot from
the tenth and fourth houfes ; which rule will hold good with regard to
the other houfes. Now thefe }aft-mentioned are parallels by their po-
fition; but, if one planet lhould be pofited upon the niQth houfe, and
another upon the twelfth, they are not in parallel till ·by the motion of
the primum mobile they are brought to that eCJ_uai point of diftance,
that
· DigitizedbyGoogle
0 F A S T· R 0 L 0 G Y.
that one tba11 bejuft fo far paft the mid-heaven as the other wants to it.
and, when they are fo, they are in exact parallel. And, further, if two
planets are ;laced either in the eleventh Qr twelfth houfe, they will, by·
tbe motion of the primum mobile, be brought to that equality of difiancc
. fo as to be in exact parallel ; for, fuppofing them to be fituated one in
twelve degrees and anotherin fixteen degrees of the fame fign, when the
fourteenth degree comes to. be upon the cufp of the mid-heaven, tho
paraileJ is then made; becaufe both planets are then jull: two degrees
diftant from the mid -heaven. The fame rule is to be applied to all the
four angular houfes; but, becaufe directions to thefe parallels m~y be
fomewhat difficult to a learner, I {hall here give an example at large of
the eafiefi and moll: correCt metbod of taking them.
Find the declination of that planet which is neare~ to the angle from
which it is taken, with latitude if he bath any ; then obferve wh:Jt de-
gree ofthe ecliptic anfwers thereto, and take the femidiurnal or feminoc·
turnal arch, according as the ~Janet is 1ituated either above or ~elow the
horizon. Ufe the fame operatiOn with the other planet, which is fartheft
from the angle; and, having found the content of both their arche$, add
therp together ; ·then find the diftance from the angle, with this precau-
tion, that, if it be from the afcendant, take the dill:ance by oblique afcen- ·
fion; if frotn the feventh houfe, by oblique defcenfton, or by the oblique
afcenfton of the oppofite point ,; but. if the dillance he from the mid-
heaven, or the fourth houf.e, it mufr be taken by right afcenfion, and,
when found, call it the primary diftance; then take the difference of the
right or oblique afcenfion of th,e two planets, and by the rule of propor-
tion fay, If the two arches give that ditference of right or oblique afcen-
fion, what tl1all the femidiurnal ·or femit)oClurnal arch of that planet
give which is nearefi the angle? and the product {hall be the fe.condary,
right, or oblique, a{cention; which, if the planets are fituated one before
the angle, and the other after it, fubtract the primary dill:ance of that
which is neareft the angle from the fecondary dill:ance, and the remain-
der is the arcll ofdirection requirea ; but, if both planets fhou)d be po-
6ted ihort of the cufp of the houfe, then add the primary ditlance to the
fecondar,y, and the fum will be the arch of direction,, as before.
It may not be improper in this place to remark, that, when a fignifi-
cator comes to the parallel of Jupiter or Venus, in good places of the
figure, thefe parallels produce very powerful effects, and are nearly of
equal force witb their fextiles and trines; fo that, if a Iignificator, par-
ticularly the siver of life, comes to the parallel of the lord of either the
· fourth
Digitized by Coogle
4Sz A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
fourth or the eighth houfe, it mofl certainly produces death, unle(s tome
other direction, of an equally powerful but benefic nature, falls in. with it
at nearly the fame point of time, and impedes its malefic effett. By the
fame rule, if a fignificator comes to the parallel of the lord of any other
houfe, being evilly placed in the figure, it produces vexation and mis...
fortune, according to the nature of the houfes they govern ; and fo, on
the contrary, if the parallel be made in fortunate places of the figlJre, they
denote an increafe of profperity and happinefs, according to the nature of
the houfe chat the promittor is lord of. · Thefe parallels are always made
by the motion of the primum mobile from eaft to weft•
.Another Way o/direfling to Parallels in the World.
. .
, If the fignificator and pr.omittor are in parallel above the earth, take
their diftance from the right afcenfion of the medium cceli, . which call
the primary diftance,; then· by the rule of proportion fay, If the femi-
diurnal arch of the tignificator gives his diftance from the medium-cceli,
what fuall the femidiurnal arch of the promittor give ? which having
found, work by the fame rule before laid down for direHing the Sun a-
bove the earth in the zodiacal afpetts, and the refult will be the arch of
direHion required.
When the fignificator and prornittor are both under the· earth, their
diftance muft either be taken from the fourth houfe or from the horizon,
but the operation inall other refpeets is prc:cifely the fame as the foregoing;
but, if one planet be above the earth, and the other below, take the dif-
tance of the one from the mid-heaven, and of the other from the fourth
houfe, and work as before; or otherwife take the oppofite place of the
planet under the earth, in manner before fpecified. Great care muft
however always be taken, in bringing. up the direCtions, not to miftake
the femidiurnal for the feminoHurnal arch, but in all cafes to take the
femidiurnal arch if the planet be above the earth, and the feminotlurnal
when the planet is under the earth: for by thefe parallels in the world,
we conceive the fignificator to remain immoveable in the horary circle of
his potition, becaufe, in a nativity, the virtue of the fignificator as well as
the promittor in the {ame primum mobile is ·imprinted; and thefe virtues
are brought to by its motion from eaft to weft.
To direll the Sun, being under the Earth, to any .Ajpe8.
If the Sun be in the fpace of twilight. firft find the direetion of the
Sun to the afpeet of the promittor, whether it be a fextile, quartile, or
2 · trio~ ·
. bigitizedbyGoogle
0 F A S T R 0 L () G Y.
trine, in manner already taught, which arch call the feigned arch; then
fi?d·what. degree of th_e zodi.ac the Sun comes to ~t that- time,. by taking ·
h1s pole, and then h1s obhque afcenfion; to th1s add the fe1gned arch
above-mentioned, and the fum will be the oblique afcenfion of the degree
of the zodiac to which the Sun comes on .both fides. Then with the
Sun's primary difi:ance from the horizon, find what parallel of twilight.
he poffeffes, and therein his fecondary difi:ance, to which the feigned di-
reCtion ihall come; and by the rule ofproportion fay, If the feminoetur-
nal arch of the Sun give his fecondary difi:ance from the horofcope, what
1hall the femidiurnal or feminoeturnal arch of the,promittor give? the
fourth number thall be the fecondary diftance of the promittor from the
cardinal or any other houfe of the genethliacal figure, fror:n whence we
are to feek the proportional diftance, and thereby obtain the true arch of
direCtion required.
2"o dirtll tht Sun, out o/the Space ifTwilight.
Obtain the feigned place of the afped, as taught in the preceding rule, ·
. and find what degree of the ecliptic the Sun comes to by this direction;
then fay, If the arch of obfcurity of the Sun gives his primary diftance
from the fourth houfe, what ihaJI the obfcure arch of the ecliptical de-
gree give, which the Sun comes to by this direCtion? the produa will.
be the fecondary difi:ance from the fourth houfe. Now, if the Sun be
pofited in the third or fourth houfes, ufe this diftance; but, if he be in
the fecond or fifth houfes, fubtraH from this difi:ance a third part of the
Sun's feminoeturnal arch, and the remainder is the Sun's fecondary dif-
tance from the third or fifth houfes ; then fay, If the feminoCturnal arch
of the Sun gives his fecondary diftance from the determinate houfe, what
diftan·ce thaU the feminoeturnal arch of the promittor give from that
boufe alfo? which when found, proceed as in the foregoing rules for
the arch of direCtion required.
Method if direCiing a Significator to all .A.JPtCis c~nvtift, that are made i11
the Worltf.
DireCtions are eafily brought up to afpeas which are made converfe,
by confidering the promittor as fignificator; for, if a fignificator be pofi-
ted in the eleventh houfe, and the promittor in the twelfth, the fextile
will fall in the tenth houfc; and to direct a fignificator from the ele-
venth houfe into the tenth is contrary to the fucceffion of both houfes
and figns, wherefore the afpect is called conv.erfe. Now the beft way
to manage thefc afpects is certainly to direct the promittor to the figni-
No. 24. 6 B ficator
.
Digitized by Coogle
484 AN ILLUSTRATION
ficator in all cafes where the directions are converfe, which may be done
with the greateft exactnefs by the preceding rules, only obferving to take
the femidiurnal and feminocturnal arches of the promittor firft, inftead
of thofe of the fignificator, and perform the operation throughout as if
the promittor were fignificator. But remember that neither the afcen-
dant, mid-heaven, nor any other of the houfes, are ever to be directed
converfely; for they have no motion wha.tever to any preceding planet
or afpect.
How to equate the Arches of DireE/ion, rwherehy to aji:ertain the Length of
'I'ime in which the Events denoted hy them will he in coming to pafl.
The art of bringing up the directions of a nativity., from the difufe
which this fcience has for fome years pail: fallen into, is a matter that has
puzzled moil: of its prefent followers; and the method of equating thefe
directions when found, by a meafure that fhall in all cafes correfpond to
truth and nature, has been the fubject of many controverfies and difputes
among modern authors; arifing, I conceive, from their ignorance of the
plain and genuine fyftem handed to us by the immortal Ptolomy, and
from a want of reflecting that the revolutions of all the heaven}y bodies,
as well as the periods of all earthly events, are only reducible to one uoi-
verfal ftandard-meafure of time, namely, the Sun's geocentric motion in
the ecliptic. It is therefore furprifing that fo many inventions iliould
have arifen, and fo many errors in confequence adopt-ed, in equating di-
rections; fince it muft be evident to the moil: unlettered mind, and a fact
beyond the reach of contradiction, that the fame rule which efi:imates the
days, months, and years, of a man's life, from the moment of his birth,
likewife efiimates the progrefiive motion, in days, months, and years, of
every luminary within our cognizance, in the vail: extent of fpace! This
rule is nothing more than the Sun's apparent progrefs through every de-
gree and minute of the ecliptic, meafured by the degrees of the equator;
to which unerring fiandard every matter that refers to any defcription or
portion of time mufi: be ultimately brought, or all our labour, and all
our accuracy, wil1 prove abortive and premature. ·
According to the common adage, "when the difeafe is known, the cure
is half performed;" and fo we may fay of the meafure of directions; for.
when the fiandard is known, the procefs is eafily accomplilhed, as follows.
When the true arch of direction is found, by any of the foregoing rules.
and is to be equated, take the right afcenfion of the Sun's place at the time
of
C gil 'ed by G()()
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
of birth, and add the arch of direction to the Sun's right afcenfion; with
· this fum enter the tables of the right afcenfion, and find what degree and
minute of the ecliptic anfwers thereto; then take the Ephemeris for the
year of birth, and note how many days and hours the Sun will be; from
the time·of birth, in coming to that degree and minute of the ecliptic;
and for every perfect day, which is .twenty-four hours, account a year,
and for every two hours over and above the even days, a month, and f<>
in the fame proportion for minutes and feconds of time, and the -arch of
direction will be truly equated; as will be fhewn by repeated examples,
in equating the dir~ctiona of the following nativities.
I flatter myfelf that the rules given in this .fyfiem of directions, if
carefully attended to, will be amrly fufficient to familiarize any of my
rea_ders. in this impor~ant branch o the occ~lt fciences, without the aid of
which, little or nothing can be done in the calculation of nativities.
For . though it be admitted, that a ftudent may make great advances in
the knowledge of futurity, by acquiring an adequate. comprehenfion of
the nature and effects of the various configurations and familiarities of the
celefi:ial bodies, and of their particular influence both benefic and ma-
lefic upon the human race; and though we may by this means attain to
know that fuch and fuch events will certainly come to pafs; yet even
this acquifition in the fcience mufi: be confidered incomplete, without
the ability of pointing out, by fome fixed and certain rule, the precife
time when thefe events ihall happen. This is not to b~ attained by the
methods ufed in the vplgar Afrrology, as already laid down in the former
part of th~s work, where the common Aftrology is treated of, but with
great rilk and uncertainty, and was therefore only introduced for the pur..
pofe of anfwering horary queftions, where correctnefs, in this particular,
is little attended to by any modem profeffors.
This grand acquifition is therefore not to be obtained by any other
mode, than that of bringing up the arch of direction of each refpective
.ftgnificator in the native's figure of birth, to the afpect which denotes
each refpective event; and this arch of direction, as I have before ob-
fcrved, is nothing more than the track or circle in the heavens formed
by the fignificator in moving from that particular point in the heavens
where he is found at the birth; fo the precife point where he forms the
afpect with the promittor that indicates the even.t, which, upon his ar-
rival there, is to happen. It is confequently apparent, that if this track
or circle can bj:: found, :Jnd its content in degrees and minutes accurately
taken, and reduced into common time according to the motion of the
Sun, which regulates all our accounts of time, it will 1hew us at one
view,
oigit;zed by Coogle
4s6 AN ILLUSTRATION
view, the exact time when the event, according to the common courfe of
nature, !hall infallibly come to pafs.
In this procefs confifts the whole myftery of afcertaining the period of
man's life, which is thought fo wonderfula matter by fome, and confi-
dered altogether impoffible by others; and yet it is no more than a fimple
operation of nature, deduced from an intimate knowledge with fecond
caufes. For this is a rule that will never be found to fail., if our arith-
metic be true, that at the very time the principal fignificafor in a nativity,
that is, the giver of life, fuall arrive_ at the anaretical·point of the afpect
of the killing planet, the native iliall furely depart this life; provided
no benefic rays at the fame time irradiate the place, or in any afpect con-
cur to impede the killing force, which may always be known from the
difpofition of the benefic planets in the nativity. If t-his a1fertion be
true, which bas been proved by innumerable examples in all ages of the
world, and which I truft will be confirmed by the nativities following,
it is evident that we can, by the foregoing rules, bring up the directions
with fufficient accuracy to afcertain the precife length ·of time in years,
months# and days, in which the fignificator of life will be in·moving to
the anareticat or killing point; and juft fo long will be the life of that
native. Where then is the myftery or impoffibility of afcertaining the ·
·period of human life, and with extraordinary precifion? B~t this accu-
racy wholly depends ~pon the true time of birth being obtained; for a
failure here in the radica1 point will deftroy the whole calculation, and
nothing predicted therefrom can poffibly happen but by the effect of
chance. ·.
But it is here nece!fary to remark, that in fuch nativities as are vital,
and afford fufficient teftimonies of ~ ftrong and healthful conftitution,
one direction alone is feldom found to kill : for in fuch nativities there
is required a train of malevolent direHions to concur to death; and the
interpofition of one fingle direction of-the benefics, even if it be a quar-
tile or oppofition, irradiating the very anaretical point, will moft times
preferve life. But where feveral malevolent directions of the malefic
ftars concur together, without the aid or interference of the benevolent
planets, they never fail to deftroy life. And here it muft be obfcrved,
that in fuch trains of directions we are to diftinguiili betw,cen the killing
'plantt and that which is the caufer of the quality of death; for one pla-
net doth not iliew both. The (oremoft of the malefic train is the killing
place, and thews the time of death; but the following diN:ctions, though
benevolent, £hew the quality of it. If this train falls all together, and
none follow, then obferve thofe which precede, though at a diftance, ·
' · md
~igitized ~y c ·
oogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
and benefic, for th~ fJUil/ily of death~ for, though Jhe benevolent fiarS
contr~bute to the prefervatiol) of life, yet they frequently fpec~fy the dif-
~afe which is the caufe of death, as we have already abundantly thewn.
,And with thefe concur th~ col)figurating ll:ars, the quality of the fiars
and 4gns, and the terms in which the ruling planets happen to be pofited.
But in violent deaths the geneth)iacal pofitions of the lu~inaries are to
pe obferved; an<i how the mal~fi~s affect them, and are alto connected by
direCtions in the quality of death.
Of S E C 0 N D A R Y D ~ R E C T I 0 N S.
All the diret'tions hitherto treated of are termed primary direaions,
becaufe they are the firft and moft: important of any thing of the kind
in the doarine of nativities .; and without the aid of thefe, all all:rologi-
cal calculations would be vain and delufive, as muft appear obvious from
what has been already premifed. But flcondary directions are by no
Pleans of fuch an extenfive confideration; nor of any great utility in the
fcience, that I have as yet been able to difcover, particularly if accuracy
and truth are to be preferred in thefe [peculations. For, by the ufe of
the primary direaions in the calculation of nativities, we are not only
enabled to judge of the quality and influence of. the afpet'ts, but can
)ikewife trace them to the precife time of their operation ; whereas the
fecondary diret'tions at bell: only afford the artift: mltter for fuperficial en-
quiry and vague conjeHure. I ihall neverthelefs explain the nature and
ufe o( them in this place, fince it is the plan of this work to comprehend
every praaice hitherto introduced into the fciencc! of all:rology, with a
view to enable tbe reader to difiinguiili the ufeful and rational frol}l the
jnutile and redundant part of it.
By fecondary direCtions, then, we are to underftand thofe configurations .
and familiarities of the planets which arife daily from the time of birth,
.
and are applied to the prediction of events that are to come to pafs in the
fame fucceffion of years from the birth as correfpond with thofe days. For
example, all afpects ofthe fiars, both to the 1uminaries ~nd cardinal houfes,
that happen on the firll: day after birth, ;ue applied to the firll: year; fhofe
9f the fecond day after birth to the fecond year ; thofe of the third day ·
to the th~rd year); thofe of the fourth day to the fourth year.; and fo on,
in progreffive rotation, as far as this fpeculation can extend.
In the management of thefedirections, weare principally toobferve what
configurations the Moon has to the other planets ; for, if the be joined
with benefic ftars, or irradiated by their good afpects, or even by the
No. 2-4-. 6 C good
Digitized by Coogle
488 A N I L L U S T R A T ·I 0 N
good afpeB:s of the infortunes, it denotes a .happy, healthful, and pro(-
perous, year to the native, in nature and quality peculiar to the principal
fignificator in each configuration, and to the houfes and figns in which
they fall in the radical figure. But on the contrary, if the Moon be
joined .to malevolent ftars, or irradiated by them, or in parallel declina-
tion of the infortunes, it forebodes, to thofe years pointed out by .the
days in which thefe evil configurations happen, great afHiClions either
in mind, body, or eftate; and, if a primary direction fuould correfpond.
with them, of the fame malignant nature, a complication of temporal
misfortunes will moft probably enfue.
In the confideration of thefe diretl:ions, we are particularly to attend
·to the critical days and climatl:erical years ; for at thofe times the good
or evil configurations of the planets are moft powerful in their opera-
tion. If upon either of thofe occafions the.Moon be found in quartile
or oppofit.ion to the place in which ihe was pofited at the time of birth,
and an evjl primary direCtion of the fignificator of life correfpond there-
with, death is then at the door, or at that time very much to be appre-
. bended, even in the ftrongeft conllitutions. And fo likewife, if the Sun
or Moon in the fecondary direCl:ions are afflicted by the malignant rays of
inaufpicious configurations with an evil primary direction, with which
both the revolution and tranfit agree, it is confidered an irrevocable indi-
cation of death to the native.
Thefe fecondary di~ections, I underftand, have always been in reputa-
tion among the Arabs and Egyptians, who, in common practice, prefer
this method of predicting from the.genethliacal figure to the more com-
plicated and laborious mode of calculation by the primary directions.
The former practice has doubtlefs the advantage in point of expedition;
for by the ufeof it in thofe countries, they will, upon the blre infpect-
tion of a nativity, give an account of the general and particular incidents
during the whole courfe of the native's life ; and yet, by repeated trials
of it myfelf, I have found it in many infiances erroneous, and therefore
not to be adopted in the ferious invelHgation of nativities, where accuracy
and truth are to be defired. It it is a doctrine much on a level with that
. of horary 9ueftions, and may be ufed to give a general idea of the native's
figure of birth, and of his probable bent of fortune, where time or cir-
cumfiances will not admit ofparticular calculations.
But, upon delivering judgement upon either fpecies o~ directions, whe-
ther prinary or fecondary, it is abfolutely neceffary to pay the greateft
attention to the nature and quality of the afpects we direct to, as well
thofe
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
thofe in the world as thofe in the zodiac : for it often happens that a
zodiacal afpect may import much good, when at. the fame point of time
a malignant mundane configuration may come up, of fo {hong and pow-
erful a: nature as to frufi:rate all the beneficial effeBs portended by the
former. The want of attending to, or knowing, this, has frequently
confounded our modern praaitioners ; who, confiding in the benignant
tendency of fome extraordinary good afpetls in the zodiac, have promifed
an advance of fortune to the native, which has never come to pafs, becaufe
counter-afpeBs in the world, which have the fi:rongeft and neareft rela-
tion to fub]unary 'things, have confpired, at the fame infi:ant.of ti:ne, to
fuperfede the beneficial effeCts of the zodiacal configurations; and which
would perhaps have been felt in an extraordinary degree of malignity,
were it not that the ab. o~ve-mentioned falutary afpe~were o~pofed to
them. 11~ ac:u~ d.!'----~ /.1'7
Hence it mull: appear-to every rational mind, that the firitlefr caution·
and the utmoft deliberation are neceffary, in forming our opinion upon the
direHions of a nativity ; for, if at lafi we err in this, all 'our labour is loft,
and the unfortunate enquirer is deluded with vain expeCtations of a happy
run ofgreat good fortune, or terrified with the approach of fome dread-
ful catafi:rophe, neither of which, by the nature of the fiars, was ever
intended to happen. That this want ofjudge~nent has of late years been
too commonly praiJi.fed upon the public, cannot be denied, nor too fe.•
verely reprobated. But fiill, let not the relentlefs unbeliever of Afi:ro-
logy raife his exalted creft too high on this· occafiqn; nor infift, becaufe
thefe errors have been common, that the fcience of prediCtion has no ex-
iflence in truth and nature; his unbelief muft clearly arife from a want
ofinclination to contemplate the curious dfeCts of fecond caufes.
Brute creatures may perhaps enjoy the faculty of beholding vifible
things with a more penetrating eye than ourfelves; but fpiritual objetls
are as far out of their reach as though they had no being. Nearefi,
therefore, to the brute creation, are thofe men, who fuffer themfelves to
be fo far gov.erned by external objeBs, as to believe nothing but w~at
they fee, and feel, and can accommodate to their own 1hallow imagina- .,!./ ·
tions. Let fuch men doubt whether they have a foul in their body, be- ·-:-
caufe their eyes never faw it;. or that there are fiars in the fir·mament at·
noon-d~y, becaufe the appear not; or that it is not air in which they
breathe, becaufe nothing appears to them but an infenfible vacuity.
Surely all . that _know they poffefs a foul mull: of neceffity believe the
rule and government of angels, .which they {€e not; and,. if from no
other ground&, they muft, I think, from that apparent analogy which
· they
Digitized by Coogle
..
',.
490 A N I L L U S T 'tt· A T I 0 ·N
they cannot but· perceive between the greater and the lefa world J for,
as the little world r:han confifts of an outward vifible body, and an in.
ward fpiritual foul, which gives life and motion to the org~nical frame,
fo poffeffing all parts as to be wholly in all, and in each diftina part
wholly; fo muO: it be alfo in the great univerfe, the fenfible and mate..
rial part whereof hath being and motion from thofe fpiritual powers
which dwell in, and wholly fill and actuate, it: therefore the Aftrologian
regards nature with the eyes of St. Paul, 2 Cor. iv. 18. he looks not at
the things which are ften, but at the things which are notfien: for tht
things which are fien are tempor11/, but the things which are not ften art
eternal.
Having now completely laid down the rudiments of the Science of
.Aftrology~ in .as compre~n.[ive, plaw, a'\.d inte!Jigent, a manner as pof•
fible, I lhall immediately proceed to teach ~he application thereof, in
calculating the following nativities. It is my with to perform this talk
in fuch a manner as to enable the mo{t fuperficial reader to accompany
. · me through every minute procefs in the bufinef!, and to follow me in
..f,t· ~ringing up .every direetion.to their proper afpects, as the.y lhall refpec-
-'(1" t1vely occur 1n the genethhacal figures. If I can do thts, I have no
. doubt of foon convincing the moft obftinate unbeliever of the fcience,
- that it has both utility and truth on its fide; and that the beings of rea.
· {on, who bear the image of their beneficent Creator, are not wholly Jeft
without the .help of forefight and foreknowledge, in a very ample and
extraordinary degree, if they will but adopt the nece1I'ary means of ac-
quiring it.
The nativities that follow fall immediately under my own obfervation
and knowledge, and I have chofen them in preference to any that have
been before publilhed, or to thofe of perfons not now living, becaufe I
would avoid putting it in the power of any perfon to fay, that our calcu..
lations are at all founded upon enquiries into the people's way of life, of
their good 'or ill fortune, of their ficknefs or health, of the particular
incidents 9f their life patl, or of the external caufes of their death; for,
if the rules that I have laid down will not enable us to accompliih all
this from the fituation of the planets in the figure of birth, our fcience
is indeed a mere delufion, and its followers nothing better than jugglers
and impoftors•
.But, to make this enquiry eafy to my readers, and to fave them as much
as poffibl~ the trouble of long and tedious calculations, I lball in this
place introduce a fet of tables, which are fo contrived as to r~folve every
queftion
Digitized by Coogle
'' '
0 F - A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
• q~efiion that will arife in the management of nativities or horary q uef-
tions; as well in refpeet to the places and pofitioos of the planets and
their afpec1s, as to the bringing up their proper direCtions.. I 1hall
Jikewife add a thort explanation of each difiinct fet of Tables, and
reduce them to practice, in calculating the foJiowing nativities. in fuch
amanner as to make their ufe eafy and familiar; ~oping by this means
to remove, if pofiible, _
that fudden impreffion of difficulty and embar~
ra1fment, which is felt by mofi readers on the firft view of mathematical
Tables. I am perfuaded no difficulty whatever w~JI attend the acqui-:
fition of_ a competent knowledge of thefe,. if a proper attention be.paid.
to them ; .without which, little progrefs can be expeCted. The moll:
accomplifbed artifi of us all could never yet beftow the gift of infpira-·
tion ; and therefore, without fuitable endeavours, let none attempt the
intricate paths of fcience.
The Tables I 1hal1 introduce in this place, are thofe for finding the
femidiurual and feminotlurnal Arches ; Tables of Twilight ; of Mun-
dane Afpetls; of Right and Oblique Afceofions; of Declination, and
Afcenfional Differences; with _fome o.thers, calculated to make the ufe of
the above more comprehenfive and univerfal.
Of the T A B L E- S of S E M I D I U R N A L and S E M I ..
N 0 C T U R N A L A R C H E S.
After what has been premifed in the foregoing Treatife on Directions.
the neceffity of readily finding the fen1idiurnal and feminoCt:urnal Arches_
muft become obvious. I have therefore· calculated a Table of them to
every degree of the Ecliptic for the latitude of London.; which, being
mofi wanted, will of courfe fave the prat1itioner fome trouble. Under
the different latitudes in the other Tables, are fpecified the femidiurnal
arches of all the northern figns, proper to thofe latitudes ; as Aries,
Taurus, and Gemini, at the top of the Table; and Cancer, Leo, and
Virgo, at the bottom of the Table. But, to find the. feminoeturnal
arches proper thereto, it only requires to fubtraet the fem.idiurnal arch
from twelve hours, and the remainder will be the fewinoCturnal arch
fought.. So Jikewife the feminoeturnal arches for all the foutliern Ggns
are· placed ·under the different latitudes in the ~a~les., havi~g ~i~ra,
Scor.pip, and Sagittarius, at the, top of the columns ; and Capricorn,
.Aquaries; and· -
Pifes, at the bottorn; and, to obtain .the fcu'l'idiurnal.ar~hes
corrdponding ·with them, add the amount of the ft:(Il~not1urnal arch to
twelve hours, and the fum will be the femidiurnal ~rch; r~q.pi~e~ ; .many
examples of which will be 1hewn hereafter. ·
· No. 25. , 6 D But,
Digitized by Coogle
491 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
But, dlould the femidiurnal or feminodurnal arches be required for
any latitude not f~ified in the Tables, they may be found thus : Firft,
find the declination of the planet under the pole of birth ; and, if the
declination falls-in any of the fix northern. figns, add the difference of
Afcenfion to ninety degrees, and the fum will be the femidiurnal arch, in
degrees and minutes; if the afcenfional difference be !ubtracted from
ninety degrees, the r~ainder will be the femidiurnal arch. But, if the
ckdination tl\ould faU in either of the fix fouthern figns, then fubtraa
the difference of afcenfion from ninety degree&, for the femidiurnal arch •
and add the afcenfional difference to ninety degrees, for the feminoElur-
nal arch. If the arches thos found are divided by fix, they will give
the horary times, or t1"Ue length of the planetary hours ; and, if divided
by three, they will. give the true difi:ance of one houfe, by which method
the true divifion of all the houfes may be obtained, according to the
rules of Ptolomy _; two of which parts make a fextile, as appears more
obvioufly by the Table of Mundane Afpecls, wherein are fpecified aU the
afped:s that are made in the world.
Of the T A B L E S of T W I L I G H T.
The ufe of thefe Tables, in bringing up the arches of direB:ions, bath
been already mentioned ; it will tbetefote be fufficient in this place to
inform the reader how· to make ufe of them. The firfi: column on the
left hand contains the parallels of Twilight ; and the body of t·he Tables
ihews the diftance the Sun mull: be from the eaftern or weftern angles, that
is, from the afcendant or feventh houfe, to be in thofe parallels; therefore,
whenever thefe Tables are ufcd.for any calculations, the following me-
thod muft be ac!opted: Take the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant
under 'be pole of birth, from whence fubtratl the oblique afcenfion of
the Sun, and the remainder will be its primary difi:ance, which is to be
fought in the Tables as near as poffible to that degree which the Sun is
in; which being found, look in the column of Parallels of Twilight,
and fee what parallel correfponds with it, for under that parallel the
arch of Twilight muft be taken; examples of which will hereafter be
frequently given.
Of the T A B L E S of M U N D A N E A S P EC T S.
The firl\ column ·of thefe Tables contains the femidiurnal and femi-
nofturnal arches, from three to nine hours~ oalculated to every, fix mi-
nutes. In ·the next column, and oppofite to the(e arches, in' a direCl
Jinc, is the fpace of the houfe that the {cmidiurnal or !eminoClurnal
arches
Digitized by Coogle
0 F AS T R 0 L o·a Y. 493
,
arches refpecHvely give; and in the fucceeding col~mns are arranged all
the mundane afpecrs.anfwering th~reto, ,t~uly calculated to the very de-
gree and minute, which are fometimes twsce as much as at others; and
the reafon is, becaufe the lemidiurnal and feminoeturnal arches vary in
their content to full that amount. ·
. .
Of the T A B L E S of R I G H T A S C E N S I 0 N.S.
To find the right afcenfion of a ftar, the longitude muft be given,
with which enter the left hand column of the table; and under the fign
and latitude at the top of the columns, in the angle of meeting, is the
right afcenfion required. For example : Suppofe a planet to be pofited in
ten degrees of Aries, aod to have two degrees north latitude; onter the
tables of right afcenfion with ten degrees of Aries, i:n the Jeft:-hand
column, and in the angle of meeting, under two degrees of north lati-
tude, will befound the right afcenfion thereof, viz. eight degrees twenty-
three minutes. ·
Of the T A B L E S of D E C L I N A T I 0 N•
To find the €kdiAatioc of a planet, the longitude muft be given, with
which enter the table of declinations on the left hand ; and in the column
of longitude, againft the degree of longitude, is the declination fought. If
the ftar hath latitude, either north or .fou.tb, enter the tables under the
latitude, as the titles dired, alW:l:fS remembering that, if the ftar be h1
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libr~, Scorpio, or Sagittarius, the degrees of JoQgi·
tude to the left hand, begioning at the top of the tables, are to be
taken ; but, if the ftar be in Capricorn, Aquaries, Pifces, Aries, Taurus.
or Cancer, then the degrees of longitude to the right hand, beginning
at the foot of the table., muft be ret'O.rted to. Example: Suppoie a ilac
in teo def:rces of Virgo,, with one degree twenty-feven minutes north
"latitude; enter the table of declinations, finding Virgo in the head
of the table; and againft ten degrees under one degree of luitudc l
find eight degreca forty-feven minutes, and againft ceo degrees under
two degrees of latitude I find nine degrees forty-two-minutes; the dif-
ference is fifty-five minutes. Then, for the part proportional agreeing to
the odd minuteS of latitude., il fay, If fixty give fifty-five. what !hall
twenty-fcven give ? It gives twenty-fiv~; which, added to eight degree&
forty-feven minutes, leaves the declination of the point fought. nine de-
grees twelve minutes. But, if the ftar had been in twenty degrees of
Aries, I muft have entered at the foot of the table; and, having the
fame latitude, the fame declination would emerge.
Of
Digitized by Coogle
49-4 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 _N
0 f the T A B L E S of the A S C E N S I 0 N A L D I F F E-
R E N C E S of the P L A N E T S.
The aicenfional difference is a certain arch of diftance, ·between t)le
right and oblique afcenfions of any ftar or planet, in any degree of the
Ecliptic; and, to find it by the following Tables of Differences, obferve
the following rules. Enter with the degrees of d·eclination on th.e left
hand of the Table, and under the circle of pofition in th~· head, in the
common angle of meeting, with equation, will be found the afcenfional
difference required. Example : Suppofe a planet to have ten degrees of
declination, and his circle of pofition be fifty-one degrees forty-two mi-
nutes ; I enter with ten degrees on the left hand under the cirCle of fifty-
one degrees, and there I find . twelve degrees thirty-five minutes ; but,
having forty-two minutes more, I take the part proportional between
fifty-one degrees and fifty-two degrees, viz.
deg.
Declination ten degrees latitude. { ~~
deg.
12
13
min.
35
3
----------
Difference 0
Then I fay, by the rule of proportion, Iffixty give twenty-eight, what
~all forty-two, the odd minutes of the circle of pofition, give? It gives
twenty nearly; which, added to twelve degrees thirty-fivemin~tes, gives
the true afcenfional difference, twelve degrees fifty-five minutes of the
point fought.
Having obtained the afcenfional difference, the ufe of it, in the art of
directions, is as fo1lows : Firft, if the declination be north, fubtract
the afcenfional difference from the right afcenfion, and the temainder
will be the oblique afcenfion ; but, if you add it to the right afcenfion,
the fum will be the oblique defcenfion. Secondly, when the declina-
tion is fouth, add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and the
fum will be the oblique afcenfion; but, if you fubtract it from the right
afcenfion, the remaind~r will be the oblique defcenfion. And note,
that the afcenfional difference is only of fervicc when the planet or ftar
hath latitude. .
Of
-.J
_Digitize~ by Coogle
0 F · A~ S T R 0 L ~ 0 Y.. 49$
. . . .
· Of the T A B L RS o_f 0 B L I Q._U E A SC ~ N S I 0 N S for
the L A ! I T U p E of L 0 N D 0 N•
.Encer thefe tables with the ~gcees of loogitYde in the left·hand co-
lumn ; aod in the common area, under t~e fign in the top of the column.,
ia the true qblique afceofioa fought. For example, fuppofe the ftar to
be in teo tkcrec:s of Aries, and the latitudQ of birth fifty-one degrees
thirty·tWP &Dinutes, look fer ten dcg~ees in the fide column under Ariea
in the bead, and the oblique afcenJion will be four degrees ten minutes
of the point !ought. · . ·
To find the oblique defcenfions by thefe tables, obferve the following
rule: take the oppofite fign and degree, and, if it fall in any of the fix
northern figns, add ooe hundred and eighty degrees to the oblique afcen•
fion found, and the fum will be the oblique defcenfion ofthe point fought;
but in the fix fonthern 6gns fubtrattion muft be made, and the ob-
lique defcenfion remains. Example: in the latitude of fifty-one de-
grees thirty-two minutes, I would know the oblique defceofion of ten
degrees of Libra. Now I take the oppofite point Aries, which is nor-
thern, and add thereto one hundred and eighty degrees, -as follows:
Oblique afcenfion of ten degrees of Aries is
Add
deg. .min:
4 10
180 0
J8.j. 10
Thus the oblique defcenfion of ten degrees of Libra iJ one hundred
and eighty-four degrees ten minutes ; but, for the oblique defcenfion of
ten degrees of Aries, I take the oblique afcenfion of the oppotite point
Libra, which is fouthern, and fubtrad one hundred and eighty degrees
from it, as follows:_
Oblique afcenfion of ten degrees of Libra is
Subtrad
deg. min.
194 12
180 0
--
l.j. 12
Thus the oblique defcenfion of ten degrees of Aries is fourteen de-
grees twelve minutes ; and the fame rule will hold good in all fimilar
No. ~S. 6 E , operations
. ./
Digitized by Coogle
496 ·A N I L. L- U s·.T . R. A T I 0 N ·
operation• for the latitude ·of London. I thall likewife give a praxis f-or
.finding the oblique afcenfions and defcenfions of every other latitude, by
help of the aforementioned 7'a61u of.Aftt'!/iQna/ Df!trences.
. _It would be needlefs to enterinto any further ·explanadon, or to adduce
other exampies in this place, to thew the ~ature and u{e of the .following
fet of tables, fince we lhall hereafter havo frequent occafion to refer:10
them in· calculating and bringing ·up the direCtions of the following
Nativities, which will at once prove the facility and correctne{s with
which ·any calc~lations may be ·found· by them, and initiate the young
praaitioner into a more intimate knowledge of them• without labour or
embarra1fmeot• .What I have already premifed on the {ubject, .has been
.me~ely to demontlrate their general expediency, and to remove thofe fug-
geftions of difficulty and difguft, which are too frequently· felt by
· common readers. upon the firft fight of a coJJeaion of tables, from an
ill-founded apprehenfion that they fiull never be able to underftand
thdn ; and which confequently is apt to give a fatal b19)V to the further
progrefs of the ftudent. Now ~ the fame objetlions mig'ht be made with
equal propriety to the ufe of the Trader's Sure Guide, and the Ready
Reckoner, fince both of them confift of nothing but .tables, calculated
to lhew the value of any quantity of goods at any given price, and- arc
now un_iverfally made ufe of by perfons wholly unacquainted with the
theory of. figures. If, therefore, thefe books can be ufed with fo
much a4~antage for the above-mentioned purpofes, by p~rfons utterly
incapable of p.erforming the moft fimple rnles in addition or multipli-
cation, why may not the following tables be reforted to with fimilar
eafc:, for folving any queftions upon the fubject before us r the anfwcr is
obvious, and the utility of the plan unexceptionable~
A TABLE
o.igitized by Coogle
497
A T A B L E of Semidiurnal and Seminoaurnal A R C H E S.
Pote of44 degrees. , Pole of 47 de~t~ I Pole ot so degrees.
Srlnid. r-r i lS · II Shnid. r-r lS II lis1mid. ...,. ~ / I.I .-
s;;;n-::~7 Smzin..:-::---;-1Stmi11. : ~~--;-
------ r - - - - - - · ~- ~------ .
dcg. h. tn. · h.m. h.m. b. m. h.m. h.m. h. m. h.m. h~m.
I~ .-........... ---------1 . - . - - -
0 6 : o ~ 47 7 24 . 6 o 6 5• 7 341 6 o 6 s6.7 44 30
1 )6· · 2 6 481 25 6 3 6 53 7 3sl 6 2 1
6 ssl7 +s 29
2 6 . 4 6 -so7 26 b. . s 6 ss 7 a6 6 4 6 .s9~7 47 28
.3 6 6 6 51 7 27 6 7 6 57 7 37 6 6 7 J :7 48 27
+1 6 8 .6 52 7 28 6 9 6 59 7 as 6 8 7 3 1 49 26
5 6 . 9 6 54-7 29 6 10 7 0 7 39 6 9 7 57 so 25
. 6 6 .11 . 6 ss 7 30 6 . J 2 7 2 7 40 .· 6 Jl 7 7 7 51 24
7 6 13.6s67 31 614 7 4'741 6137 975223
s 6 14 6 5s.7 32 6 1 5 7. s'1 42 6 1 5 7 107 53 22
9 6 15 6 59? 33 6 17 7 77 43 6 17 7 127 54 21
10 . 6 16 7 07 33 6 19 7 8] 43 6 19 7 147 55 20
11 : · 6 18 1 27 33 6 20 17 ·97 44: 6 21 7 157 56 •9
1~ ~ 6 20 t '37 34 6· .22 ,7 •117 45: 6 23 7 177 57 1~
I~ ' 6 2 I 7 4 7.34 6 24 7 12 7 46 6 2 5 7 . I 9 7 58 17
I 4 ' 6 . 2 3 7 . 67.35 6 2 5 7 13 7 46. 6 .26 7 20 7 58 16
15 6 24 7 7 7 35 6 27 7 14 7 471 6 28 7 22.7 59 15
16 6 25 7 87 36, -6 29 71617481 6 JO 7 248 0 14
17 · 6 27 7 ro 7 36' ' 6 30 7 1,8 7 48· 6 32 :7 25 8 o r 3
IiS 6 29 7 11 7 371' : 6 32 7 19!7 ·491
6 34 !7 27:8 I U
19 . 6 3o 7 12 7 37 6 33 7 2ol7 49 6 36 1
7 :zs·s 2 u
2'0 6 · 32 7 13 7 3s 6 34 7 22 7 49 6 3s 7 3o s 2 1o
2 J 6 33 7 14 7 38 6 36. 7 2 3 7 5° 6 40 7 31 8 3 9
· 22 6 34 7 1 57 as 6 as 7 247 so 6 42 7 33 8 31 8
z3 6 a6 1 17 7 as 6 39 7 26 7 so 6 43 7 *~- 41
7
24 6 . 3H .7 18 7 3S 6 40 7 27 7 51 6 45 7 3-6 8 41
6
2_s. 6 39 7:.197 39 6 +3 1 2b7 s• 6 47 7 ·37g 4 s
26 6 4o 7 2o 7 39 6 -44 7 2y 7 51 6 49 7 38 d 4 4
27 6 42 7 217 39 6 46 7 -J07 sr 6 51 :7 408 •5 3
28 6 43 :7 22 7 39 6 48 7 31 7. 51 6 53 j7 4' S 5 2
29 6 45' :7 23 7 39 6 49 7 33 7 5' 6 54 17 43 g 5 !
30 6 47 1
7 2417 39 6 51 7 34 7 51 6 s6 1
7 44 s s o
. _ _ _ 1__..,.. - - . _ . . . . . . • - - - - -
:::::..::~ ~ Sm11a. ,_:I~....:_[semid. ~ .2__:_ide~.
Semifl. *I :: ~ ISemin. *! :: ~ isemin. * = ~ f
Digitized by Coogle
'
Pole' of 51 degrees. Pole of 52 degrees. 1 Pole of 53 degrees.-
ts ' D.
., .
St·mid. ¥ .n Semid. ¥ lS .n ., Se:lflid. It'
,____,__------ -..---.-----
St?mm. ~ na. t Snnin. rD= "1. t Smtin• .A -lll t ·
---!·- -·-----1---H--~-1-----l-
deg.. h. m. h.m. h.m. h. m. h.m. h.m. h. m•. h.m. h.m.
0 '
1
6 0 6 s87 48 6 . 0 '7 07 52 . 6- . lo, 7 . 37 57 ao
6 21 o7 49 6 2~7 27 54:·6 ( . 2;7~ s1 s8 29
2
3
'4
5
6
7
8
9
10
I I
12
13
14
IS
16
17
18
19
., 20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
:z8
29
30
Q 4 7 2 7 51 6 4 7 4 7 55 6 . '4 ~ . 7 8 0 28
6 6 7 4 7 52 6 6 7 6 7 56 6 6 ~ 9 8 1 2 7
6 8 7 6 7 $3 6 8 7 8 7 58, 6 8 7 I 1 8 2 26
6 10 7 . s, 55 6 10 7107 59 6 l07\138 + 25
6 12 7 9 1 56 6 .12 7 12 8 o 6 ~2 17 ~s s 6124
6 14- 7 11 7 57 6 . I 4 7 J 48 1 6 . '5 . 7 . 17 8 ' I 23
6 16 7 I 3 7 58 6 J 6 7 16 8_ 3' 6 ·17 7 I 8 8 8 2 2
6 .18 7 15 7 59 6 1 ~ 17 I7 8 4! 6 19 7 20 8 9 21
6 20 1 17 s o 6 20 7 19 8 s' ,6 21 7 22 8 10 20
6 22 7 I 8 8 1' 6 22 7 21 8 6: 6 23 7 2~8 11 19
6 24 7 2:> 8 2 6 24 7 23 8 7 6 25 7 26 8 12 I8
6 26 7 22 8 31 6 :z6 7 25 8 7 6 27 7 a8 8 13 I7
6 28 7 23 8 3f 6 28 7 27 8 8 6 30 7 J 8 14 16
6 29 7 258 4 1
6 30 7 z88 9 6 32 7 328 IS -JS
6 Jl 7 27 d 5 6 32 7 308 10 6 34 7 348 16 14- I
6 35 1 28 8 5 6 34 7 32 s 1 a 6 36 7 ass 17 13 I
6 37 7 30 8 6 6 36 7 34 8 I I 6 g8 7 37 8 17 12
6 39 7 32 8 7: 6 38 7 35 8 12 6 40 7 39 8 18 11
6 417 3318 7 6 40 7"378 12 6 42·741819 10
., +3 7 35 8 8 6 42 7 39 8 13 6 44 1
7 +3 8 19 9
6 45 7 37 8 s: 6 44 7 4018 13 6 46 7 44 8 20 8
6 47 7 38 8_ 81
1 6 46 7 42 8 I 3 6 48 7 46 8 20 7
6 49 7. 39 8 9 6 48 7 43 8 J 4 6 so 7 +8 8 20 6
6 5I 7 41 8 9 6 50 7 4.58 ·14 6 52 7 5c 8 21 5
6 53 7 42 8 9 6 52 7 47 8 14; 6 54 7 51 8 2I 4
6 55 1
7 43 8 10 6 54 ,7 48 8 I 5 6 57 7 52 8 21 3
6 s6 !
1 45 s to/ 6 56 7 5o 8 15 6 59 7 54 8 22 2
6 57 i7 46 8 l 0 6 58 7 51. 8 l 5 7 1 I' 55 8 2 2 I
6 s8 i7 48~'l. · ' ~~~.2._...2.:_~,8 22__:_
s•mid. .. ~__:_ :s.,~~..::.__:_~,..,~,~~~~ • deg.
Srmi'n. )( = Jj' semrn. )( = J1' ISemtll. )(I =r;;-
- ~~-~------~~;.--------~----~~~~~~~~~~
·~ . " · ·-.. ,
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 499
A ·T A B L E ·of Semidiurnal and Seminoaurnal A R C H E S.
Pole of 5+ qcgrees. I . Pol~"of 55 deg. Pole of s6 degrees.
Snnil/. 'Y' l tf II !Semid. 'Y' I tf u semid. ¥ ~. u I
- - ; , - . - - ----- ~-----
-· S~mirt·· 6~ t Semin. ~ "1. t Semin_
. .o. "1. t
-- - ----- ---
deg. h. m. h.m. h.m. h. m. h.m. h.m. h. m. h.m. h.m·.
- - ------- - ------ - - -----·1--l
o ·6· 0 l7 5 8 2 6 0 7 7 8 5 6 0 . 7 9 8 J 2 30
1 6': 2 l7 7 8 8 6 2 7 88 7 6 2 7 II 8 14 29
. 2 .6 5 17 9 8 5 6 · 5 7 1o1
8 9 6 5 7 14 8 15 28
3 6 7 7 11 8 6 6 7 7 12 8 lO 6 7 7 16 8 17 27
4 .6 . 9 l7 13 8 7 6 9 7 14 8 I 2 . 6 9 7 I 8 8 I 9 26
5 6 . 11 7 I 5 8 9 6 I 2 7 17 8 .J3 6 I 2 7 20 8 20 25
6 · -6 13 7'178 10 6 14 719815 6 14 7 228 22 24
7 .6· 15 7 I 9 8 I J 6 16 7 2J 8 16 6 16 7 258 23 .23
8 ·6 17 7 228 13 6 J8 7 238 17 6 19 7 278 25 22
9 6 19 l7 "24 8 14 6 20 7 25 8 18 6 2 I 7 29 8 26 21
6 22 7 26 8 15 6 22 7 27 8 19 6 23 7 321'8 27 20
6 24 7 28 8 16 6 25 7 29 8 20 6 26 17 348 29 19
6 26 7 3o8 17 6 27 7 318 21 6 28 7 36:8 3o 18
10
11
12
13
14
15
J6
6 28 7 32,8 18 6 29 7 33 8 22 6 JO 7 39i8 31 17
6 - 3• 11 33:8 19 6 32 7 3s8 23 6 33 7 41 s _
32 ·16
6 33 7 35 8 20 6 34- 7 37 8 24 6 35 7 43 8 33 15
6 35 7 37j8 21 6 36 7 39 8 25 .6 37 7 45 8 34 14
6 37 7 39i8 22 6 39 7 4' 8 26 6 39 7 48 R 35 1 3
6 39 17 41 8 23 6 41 7 43 8 27 6 41 7 so8 36 12
6 41 17 43 8 24 6 43 7 45 8 2~ 6' 43 7 52 8 37 II.
6 44 7 458 25 6 46 7 478 29 6. 4~ 7 548 37 ·IO
6 46 7 47 s 2 5 6 48 7 49 8 30 6 4·8 7 56iS. as 9
6 48!749825 6 5o!7·s183o 6 50758~38\ 8
6 so 7 so8 26 6 52 7 53·8 301 6 52 7 591
8 39 1
6 52 7 52 8 26 6 54 i7 54f~ 3I1 6 55 8 1 8 39 v
6 - 54 7 54 8 26 6 s6 7 568 311 6 57 s 38 39 5_
6 · 57 7 ss 8 27 6 · 59 7 s8 8 321
6 · 59 8 s8 40 4
6 59 7 57 8 27 7 l g 0 8 3:2 7 2 8 7 8 40 3
7 1' 7 59 8 27 7 8 8 2 8 33. 7 4 8 8 8 40 2
7 3 8 o 8 .27 7 6 ·8 4 8 34 7 6 8 to 8 ~P 1
7 5 8 2 8 27 7 7. 8 58 34 7 9 8 12 8 41 0
1---·•--a-·u----1---·d----1---
Semid. IIJl st. a semid. 11J a 110 Semid. 1r.1 .n. 2iJ deg.
Semi11. * ---;;--:; semin. ~-;-;;:-;; ,Semin. )( j" = 1-::-
6F
Digitized by Googlt'
soo A N · · 1. L L U S T R A T· I 0 N
A T A B L E.
Shewing the Semidiumal Arch to every decree of the EcliP«i£• ·
Calculated. for the Latitude of.s1 degrees 32 minutes.
Digitized byGoogle
-
. 0 f A S T ll 0 ·L 0 Q Y. IQI
A T f. ~ · L E,
Shewing the Semlooaurnal Arch to ~~rr ~ree ~f tlie ~clipt,c.
Calcql~co klr the Latituae of .s1 deJree.t ~2 ~in~t~s•
.,. ts · u a 1 a · I'll · ~ · ·~·- I _' ·Jo:f- .. ~ ~
lr-.......t--~-~~~ -~~~~~-
deg. h.m. h.m. h~tn· h.rp. h!lll• h,m. h..m~ h.~~ p.~, h,~m. h.tp. l'J~fll·
Digitized byGoogle /
502
--
A TABLE of TWILIG.HT for the·Latitude of 44 degrees. I
0 22110 20 0. SllO 20 0 IIJtlO 20 ao
- . . .
3 5 .9 5 6 4- 59 4- so 4- 41 4 30 4 22 4 16 4 13 4 10
·4 6 55 6 52 6 42 6 30 6 16 5 3 5 59 6 43 5 38 5 34
~ 8 42 8 39 8 26 8 11 7 52 7 34 7 _
19 7 9 7 2 6 s8
6 10 32 10 26 10 J 1 9 52 9 30 9 8 8 49 8 36 8 2718 21
712 2412 1711 5911'3611 910.4310 2010_ 4- 8 52 9 45
8 14- 1.9 14 1213 5113 22 12 5012 19111 52 H 32 11 181
11_ 9
916 1716 915 4415 1I 14 3213 5513 2413 .012 4412 83.
1018 1818 7 17 3816 S8I6 I41S 33 t4·s6
1
z4 29 141013 SH
Il 20 23 20 9 I 9 35 18 53 17 59 17 .12 I 6 30 15 59 15 37 15 23 '
1222 3122 1721 3820 4.S19 4718 5318 6jt7 3017. 416'48
13 24 45 24 28 23 45 22 46 21 37 20 35,19 4~119 118 3.2 17 IJ ;
1427 526 4425 1424 +423 30,22 19,21 1920 33120 1.19 39 ~
15 29 32 29 IO 28 101
26 49 25 2424 6122 59j22 .b 21 30 ~1 4 11
16 32 7 3x·45 ~o 32 28 s9 27 23 25 s4 24 as 23 4I 22 59 22 32
I7 34 46 34 27 33 2 3I 16 29 25 27 45~26 20 25 19 24 3023 59 ·:
I837 3237 1635 4033 38313029 3828 026 5526 325 26
I .
-- .10 In 20 xo o t$ 20 ..~ o -::-; --;;-1·o
0 AIO 20 0 tiL 10 20
--J---:1--t--:1--·t-- --1--1--·t--·1---
3 4 10 4 12 4 I 3 4 19 4 2.6 4 35 4 4-1 4 48 4 53 4 55
4 5 34 5 35 5 37 5 44 5 53 6 5 6 13 6 22 6 28 6 JO
s 6 58 6 ss 1 1 7 9 7 2.0 7 8+ 7 44 7 s6 s 3 8 5
6 8 21 8 21 8 25 8 84 8 47 9 3 9 15 9 28 9 39 9 40
J 9 45 9 44- 9 48 9 S6 I 0 I3 10 31'10 4-S I I 0 11 10 11 I a
811 911 7 11 1311 2111 39 11 59!12 14 I2 31112 4212 45
~12 J3il2 31 12 3612 46,13 . 413 251
13 4214 I 14 1J14 16
1013 5s1 3 55 x3 5914 l2l4 2914 521 5 u IS 3015 441s 48
IllS 2315 19 15 23 rs 35 IS 54 I6 17~6 4916 59'7 1417 is
1216 4816 43 t6 4716 59 t6 I9 t8 42~-~S 6 18 28 18 +3 18 47
IJ18 IJ 18 7 18 1018 2218 '4S 19 9·19 3219 S6 20 12 20 17
1419 89 19 31 19 33 19 46 20 12 20 36120 59 21 24 21 42 21 46
15 21 4 20 55 20 55 21 8 21 34 22 ll-22 2SI22 5I 23 9 23 1J
16 22 32 22 19 22 20 22 33 22 s51
2a 26 23 5~ z+ 17 ~4 36 24 42
1723 59[23 +l-23 44-23 5724 191~ 5125 1725 4426 326 7
18 25 26 25 9 25 . 8 25 20 25 432.6 15 26 42·27 10 27 30f27 37
__ · I ---.:..!--1:--1--••
30 f )( 20 IO 0 =20 I 10 0 I lo:J'20 . 10 0
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 .L 0 0 Y•.
;F A TABLE'of TWILIGHT for the Latitude of 47 degr~s.
~ ----~--.----.--~----~--~----~~~~~~---
_: o e1cl20 o st10 20 1 o ~J~.lo 20 go
3 s 33 s 31 s 23 s· 10 s o 4 49~ 4 38 4 33 4 26 + 2tt
. 4 7 3o 7 26 7 r6 6 5s 6 43 6 2 71 6 1 3 6 5 s sCJ s 59
s 9 29 9 24 9 10 8 47 . 8 27 8 61 7 48 7 3.~ 7 25 7 21
. 6 II 29 11 24 11 6 10 40 10 IO 9 46, 9 231
9 7 8 55 8 49
·71334132813 Sl2J4I~ 0112811 01 I039I02Sl01~
. 8 IS 4415 3$15 714 JO 13 so 13 ll IZ 38i12 -1011 SP 11 46
9 17 ss '7 4617 13.16 4915 .p '4 s6 14 17.13 .45 13 27 13_16
10::101520 319 2018 3117 '3416 4015 57151914 5914 45
:Il :12 40:12 26 21 37 zo 3619 JO r8 30 17 as 16 54 16 21 16 IS
•l2 25 10:14 54 24 0 22 46 21 30 20 20 19 20 18 29 18 4.17 45
:J327 5327 3026 2825 I2J 3322 13·21 . 420 719 39:19 16
1430 4530 1829 327 2025 ·3924 8Ez 5121 5021 10,2o 47
15 33 50 33 1931 46 29 47 27 50 26 6124 39 23 36 22 39 22 18
-r 6 37 20 36 37 34 43 32 20 30. 6E8 6126 26 1.5 18 24 17i23 so
1741 1740 2037 5835 9~a 2fs30 1028 2027 025 5725 23
·184~ 644 46413738 534 57'32 21,30 3129 327 3926 SO
r--t 30 ir 20 10 ,0 tS 20 :--;;-j 0 .. 20 --;;- 0
-· 0 .g. 10 20 !1'hliOi 20 I 0 1- t 10 20 30
3 4 24 4 25 4 28 4 4114 so 4 49: 5 9 5 16 5 18
4 5 53 s 54 5 57 6 13 6 2 616· 381 6 49 6 57 6 59
5 7 21 7 21 7 25 7 3~ 7 45) 8 0 8 IS' 8 29 8 39 8 41
6 8 49 8 49 8 so 9 4 9 17 9 34 9 51'10 8 10 2010 23
7\Io 18:10 1710 2010 3410 48 II 7:1J 2j1
11 45 11 5812 l
. 8•11 461I 441I 5012 Jl2 191% 50'13 2'13 201J 361J 39
9113 1613 1313 1913 3013 401410/14 361
14 5815 1315 17
·10114 45 14: 41 14 46_15 0 IS 19 I 5 431
16 9116 83 16 50 16 54
11116 1516 916 14-16 2816 4917 14-17 4018 718 25 d~ 29
1 2 17 45 17 37 17 4217 5718 18 t8 45l19 14:19 41 20 0,2.0 5
IJ 19 1619 719 Jl 19 2519 47%0 ISi20 45.21 14\21 33 21 40
14 2o 4720 3620 g82o 53121 1521 45122 1622 4723 723 13
1522 1822 422 522 2122 4+Z3 1523 4724 1924 3024 37
16a3 5o23 _3423 3423 49241024 4-425 1825 5o26 1026 19
17 25 23:25 4 25 0 25 17 25 41 26 I 326 48 27 21 27 24 27 50
IS 26 Si26 36 26 3020 45127 40 27 40 28 18 28 so29 16 29 24
--~ K20 10 0 :20 10 0 ~~o 10 o
No. 25. 6G 2
r
Digitized by Coogle
504 A N · I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
::P ATABLE of TWILIGHT for the Latitude of 50 degrees.
~ ----~--~------~--------~--~~~--~r---
_!: 0 .. 10 20 I 0 Iltl 0 20 0 ... 0 20 ao
3 6 9 6 5 5 54 5 40 5 25 5 Ia 4 59 4 so 4 40 4 40
4 s 18 8 15 s 1 7 3s 7 1? 6 5s 6 39 6 25 6 18 6 14
5 I0 a 3 10 27 I 0 9 9 39 9 I 0 8 46 8 21 8 0 7 43 7 4S
612 5112 43I2 1 II 40Il 710 3110 4 9 40 g 2S 9 20
' 7115 15!15 5I4 3313 491a 5.12 2ou 4911 2011 310 59
s!r7 4617 3316 s 16 o'1s 6!14 15 1a as 13 o I2 a912 30
14 5
Io2a 101
22 4921 5020a419 1718 6171016 2515 5415 4Q
1126 61
25 4124 J022 5921 2]20 619 118 S17 a317 16
12129 201
28 5027 2425 3323 40,22 1020 5519 5119 1418 52
131
35 5832 18 30 28 28 16 26 51'24 17 22 49 21 37 20 56 20 29
l4·1a7 s36 . 9 33 51 31 9 28 a41
26 26 24 46 23 28 22 as 22 7
1 5142 540 4s a7 as 34 .1 331 1o1
2s 4a26 46 25 r sj24 20 23 45
1649 li46 4843 5037 3733 55:at a28 5027 1026 82S 24
II 7 I 47 58 4I 28 36 S0j33 30 JO 57 29 3 27 53 27 3
. 18 1 46 ol4o 5:a6 4a3 7 3, 129 36 28 44
-- -~1 n 20 [ 10 0 ~--;;;:- o · 'Y' 20 10 o
1-- 0 _:~ 20 I 0 Ill I 0 20 0 t lO 2·~- 30
3 4 40 4 4 1 4 441 4 51 5 4 5 I 3 5 2 5 5 36 5 44 5 46
4 6 14 6 lSI6 J81 6 27 6 41 6 54 7 I 0 7 24 7 34 7 37
s 7 4S 7 4S, 7 sol S 3 8 19 8 as 8 54 9 11 9 23 9 27
6 9 20 9 201 9 261 9 3s 9 57!10 as 10 3s 10 5s11 10 u x7
7
1
10 5610 58jt1 o1
11 1311 a4111 5512 20I2 4012 58to 4
SJ2 J012 28112 30;12 4813 1013 34'4 114 2614 4414 51
9/14 514 o 14 6,14 2014 46i's 1015 4116 8 16 27 16 35
1o 15 4o 15 36j1s 401
15 5616 21 1
16 49 r7 21 17 5o 18 1018 18
11jl7 16 17 10;17 14 ~7 ao 17 5618 261S 59 19 ao 19 50 20 I
12118 52 zS 4418 4719 319 3120 020 as 2I c 2I a32I 40
1a1
2o 2920 1820 1620 3721 521 3822 1522 4923 1323 23
14i22 7 21 53 2I 54 22 10 22 39 23 ta 23 50 24 27 24 53 25 3
15i23 4523 2823 2823 4424 1324 4825 2825 sz6 3126 41
162'5 2425 425 025 1725 4]26 2327 427 4028 · 928 20
17127 3 :z6 40 26 36 z6 s• 27 2127 57 28 40 29 19 29 46 29 57
JS28 +428 1728 1028 242S 5
. 429 3130 1530 2B3I 23131 34
-- JO )(20 10 0 ::20~ IO 0 "J'20 10 0
Digitized by Coogle
. 0 ·F .A S. T R ·0 L 0 G Y.
A TABLE of TWIL1GHT for the Latitude of ·' t degrees.
0 G 10 ' 20 0 Q. 10 20 0 J!ll 0 20 30
1-· _ _ ,_ _,,___,___,____ ,___,___,_____,_ _,
3 6 20 6 19 6 •7 s 51 s 35 s 19 s. 6 4 s6 4 48 4 46
4 8 40 8 33 8 16 7 53 7 30 7 g 6 49 6 35 6 26 6 20
sI1 o to 51 to 29 9 5s 9 28 8 59 s 34 s 15 s 4 7 58
6 13 2f> 13 14 12 4612 6 11 28 1o 51 10 20 9 57 9 40 9 34
715 5915 4415 8141913 3112 4512 8II 4011 21JI JO
StS 3918 21173616 3715 37I4 4113 5713 2312 5912. 47
921 1821 62011 IS 5917 4616 4015 4715 714 3914 24
1o 24 28 24 1 22 53 21 25 19 59118 41 17 39 16 so 16 1916 I ·
1127 4427 0
1
1
25 4623 5922 1720 4519 33,18 3818 I 17 39
1231 2330 3928 5426 +324 4122 541
21 3020 2719.4419 18
1335.3034 3.),32 2029 3827 ui25 6jz3 2922 1621 2720 57
14 40 36 29 13 36 8 32 ·45 29 48 27 2o1
..es 31 24 8 23 u 22 37 .
1547 s8 3s 2340 3sr
a6 10 32 3o29 4427 j626 02457 24 17
16 46 28140 436 3532 1029 4527 5726 4425 59
17 so 043 4438 sr 34 48 31 ss 29 ss28 35 27 41
18 jso ss 42 28 37 3444 16 3' 5130 23 29,25
1-- I . I
30 . u 20 10 . o ~ 20 10 o I'Y'2o 10 o
0 _~101 20 0 h\IO 20 0 110 20 30
-; 4 46 ..;-;;1~~ 4 ss -;8 s 20 5 33 -;-:;; s s6 s s8
4 6 20 6 201 6 26 6 36 6 48 7 s 7 20 7 39 7 .so 7 53
s 7· s8 7 s8 8 .3 8 14 8 29 8 48 9 9 9 29 9 40 9 45·
6 9-34 9 33 9 39 9 SilO 1010 3510 s6u I8Jl lJli 371
7 1J. 1011 8 11 14 11 28 IJ 48 12 10 12 41 13 Sl3 2013 26
8 12 4712 4412 so 13 513 26 l3 53,14 2514 SIIS JO JS 1_511
914 24 14 2014 2614 41 xs 4 1 5 3316 7.16 3616 5617 1
10116 115 5516 ] 161716 4017 13117 49:1
18 2018 40,18 481
1117 3917 3117 3617 5318 2018 5019 30120 320 26-20 30!
12191819 8191019 2819 5720 3121 I021 4522 1022 I71
13 2o 57 20 44 2o 47 21 4 zi 331
22 9 22 5o'23 26 23 so 23 59,
1422 37 22 2122 23 23 39.23 9!23 46 24 29125 7 25 3425 401
lS 24 17 23 59 23 59 24 IS 24 45.25 23 26 7126 47 27 IS 27 23!
1625 5925 3625 3425 so:26 20/26 5927 4528 2628 551
29 41
17127 41 27 15 27 l I 27 26;27 561
28 36 29 231
30 530 351
30 44
..!.~,29 .2'5 28 54 28 47 29 1129 Jl 30 20 3[ 01
31 43,132 14 32 24
30 )( 20 10 30 := 20 10 0 l~20 10 0
Digitized by Coogle
·so6 AN ILLUSTRATION
;f A l'ABLE of TWILIGHT for the Latitude of 52 degrees.
!. o ~ 10 20 ~ o a to . 20 o ~ nJt 10 20 3~
3 6 4o 6 36 6 22 6 5 s 4 s 6 27 s r6 s 2 4 56 4 55
4 9 I 8 s6 8 3 8 10 7 44 7 1 9 7 6 44 6 35 6 3o
511 29111 2110 5410 20 9 45 9 13 8 48i ~ 27 8 IS 8 8
614- 4)'3 5213 1812 3511 solu 910 3610 11 9 ss 9 46
7 r6 46-16 Jll) 4iJ 14 5313 S7J13 7 1Z 2711 561 I g6II 25
8 i9 3719 1918 2517 1716 .91I5 814 2013 4213 1713 5
9 22 4-I 22 t8 21 10 '9 47 18 zslr7 10 16 1415 29 14 49 14 45
IO 26 0'25 28 2-f. 6 22 23 20 44!19 17 18 917 17 16 43 16 25
1129 4128 59127 1625 823 91u 2720 719 7!18 2818 ·s
1233 5432 s9i3o 4328 sj2s 40\23 4022 921 o2o 13 19 +5
1339 237 4034 3531 1628 2126 124 1322 54121 5921 26
14 46 3043 54 29 0 3'4 .45 Jl 11 28 24 26 '9 24 48123 46 2J s
15 46 50·45 4 38 40 34 13 30 55 28 go 26 45!25 35 24 so
J6 43 2337 31 33 3030 4528 4527 2526 36
17 49 4041 1136 2133 .530 4729 1828 21
18 ·. 45 26j39 203.5 3032 5531 1030. 8
-- so -:7ol 10 o ij 20 I 1o o · ¥ 20 1o· o
__ o ~~o zo j o ltJ..to zo o t io-~o ··ao-
3 4 53 4 54 4 s8j s· s s 17 5 29 s 45 5 58 6 7 ·6 10
\ . 4 6 so 6 31 6 361 6 45 7 0 '7 16 7 g6 7 53 8 5 8 9
5 8 8 8 8 8 I 3 8 24 8 43 9 2 9 26 9 +6P0 0 l 0 6
6 9 46 9 46 9 50 10 5 I 0 2 5 10 47 II 2 5 II 88p I 55;l2 0
7
1
11 2511 2411 golu 4412 712 31 13 o 13 28 13 46t13 55
8 I 3 4 l 3 0!I 3 8 13 2 3 I•3 48.J4 I 5 14 49 I 5 18 15 371 I 5 46
914 43'4 3914 4515 Ot5 2815 5716 31 17 517 26117 35
1016 2316 1716 23 t6 4017 717 3918 18 r8 so 19 .rs-19 25
11 IS 517 55 r8 o 18 t8 r8 4619 2020 .ozo j621 ·.2!21 zo
1219 44 '9 3419 3719 55 20 2520 1 2.[ 4422 1922" 4822 59
131
21 26 2I 31 21 IS 21 33 22 4 22 41 23 ·a6 24 5 24 ao24 45
14'23 28f22 5022 531
23 4023 4024 2125 725 4826 r6:z' 28
151
24 5024 3024 31,24 4925 2026 026 48 '2.7 3027 5928 JO
16!26 36261026 91
,26 2526 5727 3928 2829 :1;328 4029 55
1728 2127 5427 4928 o28 3599 1730 830 53 31 2531 37
~~30 819 3529 2729 41JO 13'30 55131 4832 3° 33 :!.~f.~
. ~0 )( 20 10 0 ='20 10 0 ~20 10) ·• ,
1
2.j
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A s·"t R 0 L 0 G Y.
'"t:
!:; A TABLE of TWILIGHT for the Latitnde of 53 d~rees.
~ 0 go 10 20 ·. 0 a 10 I 20 I 0 If)! 10 20 30
-; 7 6 6 sJ 6 38 6 17 s ss! s 36! s 20 s 9 s 3 ~
4 9 35 9 19 8 ss 8 29 7 s;l 7 31!7 11 6 54- 6 46 6 3~
. 5 12 1 I II 5011 23 IO 45 10 ~ 9 2H; 9 0 8 40 8 28 8 2C
6 14 55 I 4 34 l 3 56 I 3 6 I 2 I 3 I I 2 9 I 0 54 I 0 2 6 I0 10 10 0
717 4917 2416 3515 30I4 2613 3012 4H12 1411 521141
8 20 56 20 24 19 24 18 4 16 44 15 38 14 45 I4 4 13 3s13 20
9241823 3922 l320 4319 617 4616 43IS 5415 2215 4
1028 027 1325 3823 3021 2319 5718 40)7 +5 17 916 46
1132·17 31 1529 1026 2724 722 131
2o 45119 3518 5618 29
1237 3036 I J2 3929 4026 4924 3422 5I,'21 3420 4420 lj
1345 342 I837 3633 1329 4127 ol25 o,23 3422 3221 57
14 43 3737 1432 4629'3327 I025 3424 2423 43
15 57 31 42 o 36 7!32 15'29 29 27 34 26 17 25 28
16 48 23 39 5135 413I 50
1
29 3H z.8 I I 2? 16
17 44 1038 6;34 21314630 729 4
18 49 37 41 25 36 s6l33 ss 32 6 30 54
-- ~0 D 20 I 0 - 0 H 20 ·-;:-j 0 -:;;;; --;;- 0
0 .o. J 0 20 0 "1. J 0 20 0 t lO 20 30
~-----I----l----~1----~---1----I----1----1-----1----
3 4 59 4 59 s s 5 13 s 26 s 4I 5 55 6 10 6 21 6 2.6
4 6 39 6 39 6 46 6 55 7 10 7 31 7 so 8 8 8 20 8 28
5 8 20 8 19 8 26 8 37 8 57 9 20 9 43 10 4 ro 2I to 28 ;
61o o 9 59 to 7 1o 2010 4o11 sJ11 3oj12 012 r9 12 27 ·
71114111 3911 4712 on 2612 5513 25!13 54141514 24
8.13 2013 18 13 2.613 4314 914 4I IS 15 •s 4616 9 r6 1 9
9·15 4 14 5815 6 IS 2415 .s1 16 261 7 oi17 3618 o .s 11
1016 4616 3816 4617 417 34181018 49:19 2519 5020 3
1118 2918 19 t8 26tS 44•9 IS 19 5420 35,21 1421 40 21 54
12 20 13 2o o 20 . 6 20 24 20 56 21 37 22 20:23 1 23 31123 43
1321 57,21 4121 4522 4122 3723 1924 41
24 4¥2$ 1.8,25 Jl
14Z3 4023 2323 2623 441241725 125 4826 34'27 52718
1525 282$ 525 61.5 2425 5726 4027 3128 1728 541.9 5
16 27 16:26 481
26 48 27 4 27 37 28 23 29 13 30 l JO 36 JO 50
1729 4!28 3028 28'1.8 4429 1730 4130 5531 4432 2.032.35
-~30 ~4~30: 1_
6 30. 9 30 2~30 57 3I 44:J2 37 33 1.7 34 ; S 34 lf3
30 )( 20 10 o =
20 I 10 j Q ~20 ·to o
No. 25. 6 H .. 2
.
Digitized by Coogle
so8 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
'"t:j
~ ATABLE'of TWILIGHT for the Latitude of ~4 degrees.
Ill
j : - o 1 ~ 1o :20 o a 1o 20 o IIJI. 1G) 20 go
--- ----~---~------f-----~----t-----
3 7 l]:7 13 6 55 6 30 6 10 5 49 5 31 ' 5 J8 5 10 5 7
4 9 s6 9 4s1 9 23 8 so 8 17 7 4-8 1 22 7 s 6 54 6 49
5 12 4-01.2 Jl,I1 S? 11 1310 28 9 5c 9 17 '8 54 8 39 8 3o
6I5 3915 24,14 3813 4012 4411 5511 1410 4410 2510 ·15
7 ls 4818 261 7 28 16 1415 2!14 5 ·13 Jol12 3s 12 ult 5s
S 22 1021 44i2o 2918 5617 27,16 15 rs to 14 2713 5813 40
9 ZS 59 25 20~3 44 21 46 19 .57.28 27 I] 1516 21 I 5 46 I 5 26
10130 J829 25f27 t624 47~2 34:20 4419 1918 t-6t7 3417 ll
I 11
35 35 34 1631 I6 28 0 25 17-23 7 21 27 20 14 19 24 ·18 57
1214] 3040 39 35 58 J1 38 28 101
27 35 2J 37 2Z 14
1
21 17 20 4S
13 42 o1
3s 41 31 2028 1025 5024 IS 23 10 22 30
1 4 56 940 313_4 44'30 5428 u26 191
2s · 4 24 18
•s f46 s 938 311
33 463o 3628 26,26 49 26 s
16 . · 4z. s4\J6 so 33 6 JO 36 28 57 27 s8
r 7 48 2740 1535 4432 s• 3o 58 29 5o
t8 . 57
. 341
44 0 3_8 30,35 9 33 0 31 45
~- 30 . I n·20 10 · 0 ~ · I o o .,. 20 1o o
o .o:1o1 20 j o fi'LIO · zo o tlO 20 30
·3 s 7 s--;i.s· 10~ s 34-, s·so 6 8 6 zo 7 36 6 40
4 6 4-9 ,6 48, 6 54·' 7 5 7 29 7 44 8 6 8 26 8 40 8 49
·Sj 8 3P 8 31 8 381 :8 51 · 9 lO 9 Jf: IO 410 26 to 4510 54
6 10 1 5 10 • 4 ~;o 21 :Jo :~61o 58 ·1 • 2 7 11 58 12 2 5 12 4612 56
8 1 I
711 s 11 SSJfA 412 2012 44-13 1713 5014 2014 4514 55
B1 3 -+o '3 37 1 3 4sit+ 4J4 3o!''s ·6 IS 4416 1816 4416 54
9j'I5 2615 19 IS z6 15 47 16 1516 54 17 34 18 11 18 39 r8 so
101711l7 017 91
1]291759J84019i420 420342045
IJ!J8 5718 "f.6I8 50/19 1.019 44!20 2621 1~21 5422 2522 j8
1.220 4-420 2920 3420 5421 27i22 J()lJ 023 4524 1724 ji
13·22 30 Z2 14 22 161
22 36 23 101
23 57 24 47 25 34 26 7 z6 2:1
14'24 .s 23 5s2 3 59:24 ~t~ a4 5+2s 41 26 34 27 20 27 57 28 10
15!26 825 4-4-25 +126 C20 3627 2528 -1829 929 45 ·30 0
J.61
27 sB a7 28 27 25!27 40 28 t8!29 8 JO 3 30 55 Jl JO 3I +8
17,29 sc 29 J 5 29 8;29 as30 oao .SJ 32 47 32 41 33 19 33 $5
.
.
~~r 44 Jl 013° 5°3' , J1 40'3· 3433 3'34 .6 3S . 5
1
35 2~
. 30 >< .~[ 10 l o =20 Ito \. o l:f20 · to _ o ·
; s 11 1
Digitized byGoogle
'
0 F A 8 'r It 0 L 0 G . Y • .
;p
~ A TABLE of TWILIGHT for the L=ttitude of .u.degrees.
:- 0 D10 20 I() ·Sl..IO 20 0 tiJ!.1'() 20 ao
:~ 74° 7 34 7 16 6 ' 4"8 6 .2ol 5 59 5 40 5 26 -;-;s 5 14
4 I 0 3J 10 I 8 9 51 9 . 12 8 35 8 ~ 7 36 7 1'6 7 5 6 59
513 .2c 13 1012 3S1t 42·to · soto 8 9 30 9 8 8 54 8 44
f IU +1•6 19,15 2814 201113 1.1p2 l81I 34li 110 4-110 29
710 . 919 4o·t8 gos7 415 14l14 3113 37l2 5612 2912 16
B23 s9~3 2ol2t -+9Jt9 s6j1s 1216 46ts 4o&4 5214 2014 4
9.£S·~o!7 9625 24:23 Oi20 sot9 917 46lb 49'26 Il ts so
lq 33. 44 J2 :.U l29 27126, 18·!3 38 21 31 19 56 I 8 48 ·
18 5 17 :f7
1141 30 38 5034 14129 57\26 34 24 0 22 1020 4919 5719 26
12 46 24l34 5 29 46 z6 40 94 27 22 52 21 52 21 15
1 3 :as 56~3 10 2 9 ~6 26 48125 o 23 47 23 5
14 I.H 3037 332 2129 15127 925 4624 57
15 4l 3135 29 31 4~129 21 27 44 26 49
t6 47 6 38 54 34 28 Jl 38 29 49 28 44
. 17 s6 2542 4437 xR33 5931 52 3o 4°
18 - 47 1040 J8 36 26 33 55 32 3~
-~- r--·r---r---r---•---1-__.;,..-r-.--r
, ~o · u 20 .... 10 ..o _ -~ 20 to . o 'Y'20 io _o
o -~•o 2o o ·1nt.tto· 20. o 1 t lo. :io :Jo
~"' --- . -
8 4 14 5 4 5 21 sao 5 44 6 2 6 2o1
6 3s 6 5~ ·n ss
4 6 -+9 6 sH 1 6 7 8 7 s6 7 59 s 24! s 46 9 a 9 to
5' ~ 44 6· 42 8 52 9' 6 9 ~· 9 5410~4: 1¢ 5111111'1 19
610 3o 10 .28 1<>· 31 ro sa 11 18 r'J. 4S 12 22' 1·2 ss 13 16 '3 2s
712 1612 1412 2! 12 40 1~ 57 IJ 4114 2(;)114 ss 1S 19 rs 29
s14- .t! r3 581-4- 714 at> 14 56 IS 34 1·6 141 1~ 5217 ao ·7 31
9 .IS 50115 44 15 5 f 16 l t r6 3417 25 d~ 71
18 49 19 19 1'9 31
lQ '7 1417· 2~17'3617 s6 18 j019 14.20 0·20 4421 17;21 30
U1 9 l619' JS'jl 9 2.21 9 4120 7121 2'21 5t \2'2 3
·823 1j2j ~6,
12Zl 1521 0 '21 621 2622 5:22 sol23 421
24 312.5 8,25 221
13 23 5 22 46 22 5~ 2j I 1 23 39 24- 37 25 32 26 23 27 IJ
27 J.S
"t2'f. s7 24 342-4 36 24 5625 3, 2'6 24;27 2128 14 28 53:29 8
15 26 49 26 :z2 26 21 26 41 27 s. 28 1 1!29 9 30 4~o 4+:ao· 59
16 2B 44:28 11 28 &28 ~5 29 4 29 57i3o 57-31 5s32 35!32 S~
17 30 40,30 l 29 5J30 10 JO 49 31 441
3'2 44.3~ ·
.:p 3'4 24~
1 4 4~
..:~r ~3l 51 Jl 4-1 3t 55 39' 33 33 .zd34- 30 ~5 ~~ ~6 I 336 30
J:ao )( 20 10 I 0' . ::: ~?. 10~ 0 t1' :1.0 16 0 r
Digitized by Coogle
SJQ .A N · I L L U: S ·
'r Jl A T 1. 0 N
0 .0. 10 20 0 nt 10 20 0 20 . so
--l----l----l----l--------l----l----1----
..·1•.-.-
. --l~
..~---
. 3 $ 22 5 24 5 28 5 40 5 54 6 14 6 35 6 55 7 I l 7 I8 ;
4 1 10 7 10 7 16 7 . 30 7 49 8 15 8 41 9 7 9 271 9 35 ~
s s 5s s 5s 9 5, 9 21 9 4410 14 10 45 u 16 u 40 11 49 ,
610 4610 4510. 54!11 I211 3712 II 12 4713 22IJ 50:14 0 l
7 12 3'5,12 3212 4o'13 1 13 29 r4 ·s 1.4 47 •s 28 15 5sl''.<> ·9
sl14 25 14 2014 28 14 5o 15 211
16 4 16 47 17 29 18 · 5 18. IS ~
91r6 1s 16 816 15 •6 3s17 111
17 56/•8 4219 2920 6,2o 19 1
10 18 6 17 56 18 4 t8 26 19 1 19 49 20 39 21 28 2.2 7122 21 '
li 19 5719 4419 5020 1420 5021 41,22 3423 2724 7 24 21 '
1221 5021 3421 3822 122 3923 321
24-2825 2426 5 26 20 l
13 23 43 z3 24 23 25 23 49 24 28 25 22!26 20 27 18 28 1 28 17 1
1
.425 3825 1425 1425 3626 1627 121z8 1229 1029 5730 14 1
1527 3427 427 1:27 2428 429 lJO 231 531 5032 7 'I
16129 3228 5628 50291129 5IJO 49315232 5733 4534 ~- l
17131 31 JO 49-JO 391
30 5931 39 32 39 33 4234 5035 3635 52 l
~8~331:4 3:2
:32
1
:932
0
46 3~2
:6~ 3S
0
38 8:2~ 37
10
28 F04~
Digitized by Coogle
\ 0 F. ·· A:S TIt O · L.O G Y.
A T A B L E of M U N D A N E A S P E C T S.
SemiJi. Space oj Stmi- Sex- S{uin- ~uar· 'lrine. Sefqui· Bitjuin- Oppo-
urnalor . one quar- tile. tile. tilt. J,ua- tile. litton.
!Cminoc- Houfi. tile. rate.
turnal Smq; * Q.: o- 6 Sfq. Bq. 8
.A.rc!Jes.
r---....;.r-----1---1---I---1---1--- ---t---
~. · m. d. · m. d. .m. d. m. d. m.. d. m. d. m. d.. m. d·. m. d. m.
11-....._-1·-- -- ---·t---t-..:•;......t---.1---1--
3 0
3 6
3 12
3 18
3 24
;3 3°
3 36
3 42
'3 48
3 54
4 0
4 6
4 12
4 18"
4 '24
4 30
4 36
4 42
4 48
4 54
5 0
5 6
5 '"J 2
5 J8
5 24
5 30
5 36
5 42
5 48
5 54
-6 · 0
15 02·2 30 30 og6 of45 o6o of>J 3072 ogo 0
'5 3023 1531 oj37 12,¢ 3062 o69 4574 2493 o
16 o 24 o 32 o 38 24148- o1
64 o72 o 76 · 48 96 o. ·
16 ·3024 4533 ol
1
39 36j49 301
66 074 1.S79 1299 0
17 ' -025 3034 040 48!
51 o68 o76 3o81 36102 o .
17 30 26 ·15 35 0
1
42 o 52 3io o 78 45)S4 o 105 ()
18 · o 27 o 36 o 43 12 54 o 72 o 81 , o 86 24 1 o8 (l
18 3027 45b7 o'44 2455 3 74 o8a IS 88 4811 I 0 .
'9 · o28 30138 o'45 3657 o76 o8s 3091 12114 o
19 30 29 1539 ol46 48 s8 J0,78. . 0 87 45 93 36 1.
17 :o
20 · · o 30 o1'4o o1
48 o 6o oSo o9o · o 96 o 120 ·o
20 30 30 451
41 0 49 12 61 30182 0 92 I 5 98 24 I 23 0
21 . 031 3042 050 2463 084 094 30100 48 f26 0
21 30 32 15 43 o 51 36 64 30 86 096 45 103 12.1'29 o ·
22 o 33 o 44 o 52 48 66 o 88 o 99 o 105 36 132 o
22 30 33 45 45 o 54 o 67 30 90 o 101 15 roB o 135 o ·
23 034 3046 055 1269 092 0103 JO 110 24138 0
23 3035 1547 os6 2470 3°94 eros 45 l12 48 '41 0 !
24 036 048 057 3672 096 · oto8 0115 12144 o
24 go ~6 45149 os8 4873 3098 o11o 15117 36147 o.
25 037 30 )0 060 075 0 IOO 0112 30120 0150 0 .
25 3038 15 51 o61 12 76 3o 102 or 14 45 122 24153 o ·
.
26 039 052 062 2478 0104 0117 0124 48156 0 .
26 303945)3063 367930I06Gll9 15127 12i1590
27 0 40 '30 54 0 64 48 81 0 108 0 1% I 30 129 36 162 0
27 3041 15 55 o66 0 82 30110 0 123 +5 ·a~ 0165 0
28 0 42 0 S6 0 67 12 d4 0 1 J 2 o I 26 0 I J4 2 4 1 bH o
28 3o42 4557 o~8 2485 JOI14 ou8 15136 48171 ol
29 043 3058 :o69 3687 ou6 ·c130 30139 . 121
J74 o .
29 3044 15591o7o 4f>8S·. 3ou8 0132 45~41 · 3~:177 o .
30 · 045 · o{)ooQ,72: '090 ··o.I20•01J,S: 0144;. :0J1801<?.
No. 26. 6 1 2
Digitized byGoogle
·A TABLE of MUNDANE. ASPECTS.
$emidi-. Spac~ o)f,Semi-
k'rnal or ont quar-
!aminoc- Hoztft. tile.
'tunral Smq.
Arches.
Sex- W...ui11- .
tile. tile.
~arJ. Trine. Sefqui- IBiiJuin-ipppo-
ttle. qua- tile. jitt"on.
drote••
0 A Sfq. Bq. 8
---1---1---~---1---1--.....1---- _
t
m. d. m. d. m·. d. m, d. ro. d. mf~
h. m. d. m. d. m, d.m. d.
- - - --1--1--t- - -1 - - -
6 030 045 o~o Oj72 090 o 100 o I35 -.0144 P x8o o
'6 6 30 3045 45 I 073 12 91 30122 o I37 15 r¢ 24183 9
6 121
31 046 3~· 2 0~4 2493 0124 0139 3C 148 48186 ¢
6 181
31 3047 l~t63 0~5 36 94 30126 o 141 45151 12189 <>
1
6 24,32 048 064 c76 48 96 o 128 0144 o153 36192 0
16 "'l'i..Q2 3o 48 4565 o 78 O
f<}7 3~ IJO 0146 t 51t 56 0195 0
1
"6 ~j 049 3066 Ol9 12~ 0132 0148 30 Ig8 24198 f
A.42 33 30 so IS 67 0 So 2~ 100 30 134 pI so 45 160 48 201 p
tt'6 4834 o 51 o68 ~81 36102 o 136 o 153 o 163 12 204 b
i 0 5434 .30514569 8-2 4,8 103 30138 0155 15I65 36207 o
1 7 035 0523070~4 0105 OI400IS?JOI6 C210p
7 635 ~3o 53 r:s7r 85 . 12 to6 3d 142 o 159 45 17o 24 21 3 o
17 I~ 36 0 54 '0 72 86 24 108 0 144 0162 01
172 48 216 0
7 18 36 3054 4:673 0]87 36i09 30146 016415175 12219 0
7 2437 '0 55 J074 d.8 48 11 I 0148 0 166 30177 36 222 0
7 3037 3056 1575 olqo ot12 30150 0168 45 18o 0225 o
7 3638 057 0]60191 12114 0r1520171 ci822f22So
7 4~38 3c57 4577 092 24115 (3~154 Cl73 15184 482310
? 48 39 0 58 301
78 0 93 J6 117 o,l s6 0 175 30 r87 12 2J4 0
7 54 39 3° 59 J.S,79 094 48 u8 30 I s8 0 177 45 189 36 237 c
8 040 o 6o o1
8o o1
96 c 120 o,16
6o o 18o o 192 01240 c
8 640 30 6o 45181 097 12 J21 30l1 2 0 I82 IS 194 24243 0
8 1241 o6t 3082 ·098 24123 o164 o1S4 3or96 482}6 o
8 1&41 30 62 I siS3 0 99 '36 J 24 t3o!t66 0 I 86 45 199 I 2!249 0
8 24142 o~3 o84 o 100 48126 0168 o 189 o2o1 36 252 c
s 3o 42 3<>63 45:s5 0102 0127 3o)7o 0191 ts2o4 o~55 o
8 3643 o64 3086 ~103 12129 · 0(72 0193 30206 24258 c
8 4243 3o6s 1587 PH>4 2413o .3o(74 0195 45208 4b 261 c
8 48 44 .o66 o 88 p 105 36 1.32 or176 o 198 o,211 1{2 264 o
8 54 ·
1:4 13b66!4589 pro6 3~ I33 30178 0200 152I3 30267 ;o
9 045 ol67309o<Oio8 oJBS o~18oo2o23o216 <>27o1
b
. Digitized by Coogle
.,
,I
'I
-
-
-
-
I
I
-
I
'
I
I
-(
'
..0 .F .. A S. 't· R 0 L 0 0 Y. ....H3
~~~£-9! I~H~ . SCE:NS'9NS,~ .ort _atlt~, e.
~~ f R A N h L . d
0 I
- 2 ·a -
. -4 rT--,-
-·--n-· l
.__,,_
- - - _._
--- -
d. fll·. :d•.m:·
· - ~ - - ..
•. ' CV' ) d.:~·; ~. 10). ~. :m.•. d. ,m. d. m.~
. ' 1 ' ' ( I
.
"CWE:::U
·- - - ~
z51as8
..
3s7a71
~ :0 ~ 3!9 3Q 359 lJ 358 49 3.s:8 ...1
;1 .o 55 .-.o 3~ p .8 359 4t4 359 ~0 3£8 sf> 3£8 32
,:2 :I so ;1 2.7 II :-3 ..()
39 0 ~5 35.9 ,il 35.9 27
t8 12 ~5 :...2 ~ li s~ ·1 34 I 1.0 ..o 4:6 ..t:J 22
. - -
.--·--
- --
--·- ..
l4 \3 +O -~ ~7 12 $1 -2 ~9 ~2
t.s I <~P I 17
\ ,
.
..s ~4 3:5 A t.z 3 48 .3 ~4 ·3 .o : 2 3.6 ,2 12
...
~6 5 ao -:5 -~'7
448 A '1.;9 ·3 55 .3 Jl ·3 7
I
'1 ·6 ~s 16 :.2 .s as 5 \4 .·4 .5;0 A 86 4 2
. - . ...
-·· - - -
-
- ·- -
\~ '-7 ~I rA S7 ~.6 33 ,6 c9 ·.5 +5 ·5 21 4 57
'·9 )8 tl~
~~
l12 ')7 ~s ·.7 .A- J6 4-0 ·.6 16' :5 52
10. .:9 H ~n ,.8 ea !\7 69 -7 35 ·7 li •6 47
11 10 ~~6 :9 42 ·9 ~~ ..8 55 S 31 .S 7 7 43
- - - -
-- - ..
--... ..
- ~.2 !1 ~~ tl,O ss 1.9 1§1. \9 sz ~9 27 9 3 8 39
13 Jl $7 p ~8 tl 1_9 !O ~6 10 22 -9 5H 9 34
'4 .J~ 51 ,12 g9 l2 ..5 11 ~2 . H is 10 54 l'O 30
15 IJ J4-8 13 ?5 '13 --~ I ~2 .as 12 J4 11 so 11 26
- - .·
.- - - -- -
. -
-- .. ---- .. _
t6 l4 ~+ -~4 ~0 ·lj '$7 !3 34 l3 10 .I 2 46 12 22
~7 . '5 -.o J.s ~6 .14 -53 I4 JO ~4 .6 lJ 42 lJ 18
- .
18 .i!) :SI ~6 J~ !'$ t9 ,is .26 15 2 14- 39 14 IS
,~9 17 35 47 .~ :lp 4-S ;~6 22 ~-s -
ss IS 35 15 II
- . -L--~
--
- -·-.._·1---· -----· r-- -- - ---
20 .rH ~7 ~s 4
.~~ ·tl 17 J8 -16 54 16 31 16 7
21 19 ~3 l9 ,o 37 18 l4 17 51 ~7 28 17 4
22 ~0 ~0 .19 6.6 -
19 33 Il9 I I 18 4H IS 2,. IK I
.)
·23 ~1 i() z2° ·53 p.o :30 {20 ~ 8 J9 ff.S 19 22 IH s8
~~~;-r;; 5-;;
- ~--
~ -
., . ---·,r-· ·~ f-· - --··
.24 ~1 ~Z'J 21 .5 20 ~2 20 19 .19 55
zs ~3; 9 ., 22 47 2~ .?4 22 2 fZl ~9 ~I .16 20 52
.26 ~.* ;.() I9-3 A-+ ~3 21 ~2 .59 _
22 .J6 _¥2 ~3 21 so
.z::; ~5 )~ : 14 +t .+4 J .9 23 -57 2 3 34 ?-3 I 1 22 48
- - - r---=-: - -
~-- r-· ·-·
~ '~6 -~ ~S~· ~5 ~-~ :-~M 2-4 81 ~?+ ; 9 ~1 46
.29: ~·57 ?-f> 35i (1.6 13 ~5 ·51 .25 \29 ,:25 ~7: 24 44
·.30. ·e7 .5.4 .a7 ·831 -':1.7 11 ~ _:ta6 49 . zp f-7 ~6 -5 . ~~ 42
. . . - · - . ·- .
-
Digitized by Coogle
~ 514 A N ·I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
A TABLE of RIGHT AscENSioNs.-Sduth Latitude.
I 0 1 2 l 3 I 4 I 5 ll 6
-'Y'-d.~ -d-.-,-
n-: d. m~Td. m. l, d. m-:-1d. m-: d. m.
--0- --o-;;- o2;- 0 4-:; 1 I -;-I 1 3-; I 59 -2
3
2
1
3
1 0 55 I l 8 1 42 2 6 I 2 30 2 54 8
2 I so 2 13 2 37 3 I 3 25 3 49 I 4 13
3 2 45 3 ~ 3 32 3 56 4 20 4 44 5 8
--:---
4 3 4°
5 4 35
6 5 30
7 6 25
----,---
4 3 4 27 4 5I I 5 I 5
4 5s 5 22 5 46 6 Io
5 54 6 J8 6 42 7 6
6 49 7 13 7 37 8 1
s 39
6 34
7 3°
8 25
- ...- 1
----- ____,_____ -----1---1
----
8
9
to
11
7 21
8 t6
9 11
10 6
7 44
~ 40
9 35
10 30
8 8
9 4
9 59
10 54
8 32
9 28
10 23
II 18
9 20
JO IS
11 10
12 5
9 43
10 3H
II 33
12 28
--1
--------1
----------1----,---1
1
12
13
14 I
IS I
11 2
11 57
12 53
13 48
II 25
12 20
13 t6
14 12
II 49
12 44
1 3 39
14 35
12 I3
I3 H
14 3
14 s8
12 36
13 31
14 26
15 2t
13 0
I 3 55
14 so
IS 45
-1-;1_1_
4
_4~1-15--;- -~-5--3-0- -I-·5-5_3_1
-;6-1_6_1
--;6-_4_0_1
--;7--3-
17 I54o 16 2 1625 I648 17I1 1735 1758
18 16 35 1 6 58 17 2 1 17 44 I 8 7 J 8 30 I H 53
19 17 31 17 54 18 17 l 8 40 I 9 2 19 2 5 19 48
ll----:-----l----------·l
----l
---·:
-------l------
20
21
22
23
18 27
19 23
20 20
21 t6
18 so
19 46
20 42
21 38
19 13
20 9
21 5
22 I
19 36
20 22
21 28
22 24
I9 s8
20 54
21 so
22 46
20 2I
21 17
22 12
23 8
20 43
2I 39
22 34
23 30
--1------1-·--1---------
24
26
27
22 J 2
23 9
24 6
25 2
22 35
23 31
24 28
25 25
I25
~
-2-8-:--25-5;-1
-26-2-:;
29 26 57 27 I 9
30 27 54 28 16
22 57
23 43
24 so
25 47
26 43
27 40
28 37
23 20
24 16
25 12
26 9
23 42
24 38
2 5 34
26 30
24- 4
25 0
25 s6
26 52
24 26 1'
25 21
26 17
27 13
--,----1---1---
27 26
28 22
29 19
27 4
28 44
29 40
28 9
29 5
30 1
Digitized by Coogle
0 1' A- S T ll 0 L 0 ~ Y•
.A TA•L~ of RIGHT AscBNIIoNs.-N~th Latitude•
' o· ! . I
.·t 2: g ' 4: 5 · 6
- - -
ts d. m.. d.. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
-
·- - -
26 49 26 27 26
.;
0 27 54 27 88 '27 Jl 5 25 42·'
1 28 51 28 JO 28 8 27 51 2~ 25 27 3 26 40:
2 29 49 29 27 29 . 6 28 45 2 2J 28 I 27 38
8 ao 46 30 25 go 4 29 43 29 21 28 59 2~ 81.
. - - -
4- 31 44 31 2g 3' · z- 30 39 go 19 29 s8 29 46
5 32 42. 32 21 32 0 gi 41 gl '18 3° 57 3° 35
6 33 40 33 20 32 59 32 38 32 17 . Jl 56 31 34
7 34 38 34 18 33 58 33 37 .33 16 3Z 55 31 33
- - -
8 35 37 85 17 34 57 34 36 34 1 5 33 54 33 33
· 9 36 36 36 t6 35 56 35 36 35 IS 34 54 34 33.
10 37 3-4 37 IS· 36 55 36 3S 36 I,S 35 54 3S 33
J1 aa aa 38 14- . 37 54 37 35 37 ~5 36 54 J6 33
-~~- - -
12 39 33 39 14 as 54 38 35 as 15 3~ 55 37 34
13 40 32 40 IJ · 39 54 39 35 39 15 3 s6 3~ 35
14 41 Jl 41 lJ 40 54 40 35 40.16 39 57 39 36
I IS 4-2 3' 42 .l:J 41 54 41 -36 41. 17 40 .ss 40 38
43 31 143 13
- - -
J6 4Z 54 42 g6 42 18 41 59 •P 39
! . '17. 44 Jl 44 Jg . 43 '55 43 37 43 19 43 0 42 .40
. ·J8 45 31 45 14 ' +4 56. 44 as 44 20 44 ] 43 42
. 19 46, 32 46 I4 45 51 45 39 45 ·21 45 3· 44 44
- - ·-
'
·20 47 32 47 IS 46 58 46 40 46 23 46 7 45 46
21 48 33 4B 16 47 59 47 42 47 25 47 s 46 49
22 4~ 34 49 17 49 0 l48 44 48 27 48 9 4~ 52
. 23 5° 35' so J8 so 2'. 49 46 49 29 49 12 4 55
- ,
_
-- .
: 24 51 g6 5' 20 .
· St 4 so 48 so 32 so 1.); . 49 s8 -
25 52 38· 52 22 S2 6 sx 51 51 35 5' ~~ 51 . 2
26 53 40 53 24 53 9 52 54 52 38 52 22 sz 6
27' 54 42 54 27 54 12 53 51 53 42 53 26 53 .to
-
- -· -
28 55 44 55 29 55 .IS 55 0 54 45 54 JO 54 1 4
29 s6 46 s6 32 56- .1 8 .-. 56 3 55 49 55 34 55 18
30 57 48 57 35 57 21 57 7 56 53 s6 38 56 23
No. 26. · 6K 3
Digitized by Coogle
i16 A -N -I L L U S T R. A T I 0 N
A TABLE of RIGHT AscENSIONs.-South Latitude.
-
0 1 2 -3 4 5 6
- - - -
~ d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
•
- - -
0 27 54 2S 16 28 37 2S 5s 29 19 29 40 ao 1
I 28 51 29 13 29 34 29 55 30 16 3° 37 30 57
2 29 49 30 10 30 31 30 52 3I 13 31 34 31 54
3 30 46 Jl 7 31 28 31 49 32 10 32 31 32 51
-
4 31 44 32 s 32 25 32 46 33 7 33 27 33 47
.s 32 42 33 3 33 23 33 43 34 4 34 24 34 44
6 33 40 34 J a4 21 34 41 35 I 35 21 35 41
7 34 as 34 59 as 19 35 39 35 ss 36 tS 36 as
- - -
s 35 37 35 57 36 17 36 37 36 s6 37 '5 37 35
9 36 36 36 s6 37 15 37 35 37 54 as 13 3s 32
10 37 34 a7 54 38 13 as 33 3~ 52 39 11 39 29
l1 J8 33 38 53 39 12 39 31 39 5° 40 9 40 27
.
-- - - - - -
12 "
39 33 39 52 40 11 40 JO 40 48 41 7 41 25
1J 40 32 40 51 41 10 4' 28 41 46 . 42 5 42 23
14 41 31 41 so 42 9 42 27 42 "
45 -
43 3 43 21
15 42 31 42 so 43 8 43 26 43 44 44 2 44 19
-- ..........___ -
t6 43 31 43 49 44 7 44 25 44 43 4-5 0 45 17
17 44 31 44 49 45 6 45 24 45 42 45 59 46 15
J8 45 Jl 45 49 46 6 46 23 46 41 46 5s 47 14
19 46 32 46 49 47 .6 47 23 47 4° 47 51 48 IJ
I
-- -
20 4~ 32 47 49 4S 6 48 2'3 ..,s 39 4s s6 49 12
21 4 33 4K so 49 6 49 2a 49 39 49 55 50 II
22 49 34 49 so so 6 so 23 so as so 54 51 10
2J 5° 35 so 51 51 6 5' 23 51 38 5I 53 52 9
- - -
(
. 24 51 a6 51 52 52 7 52 2J 52 3s 52 53 53 8
25 si 38 52 53 53 8 53 24 53 38 53 53 54 8
26 53 4° 53 55 54 9 54 24 54 38 54 53 55 7
27 54 42 s4 s6 55 11 55 25 55 39 55 53 s6 7
I
---·
-- - - -
'
zS .56 ~6 s6 40
ss 44 55 58 56 12 s6 54 57 7
• 56 46 ss
-29 57 0 51 13 57 27 57 41 51 54 7
30 57 4S s8 2 sH 15 ss 29 ss 42 ss ~s 59 7
•
Digitized byGoogle
0 F .. A s·.T R·. O·L o· 0 Y. !t?
ATABLE ·of RtGRT AscE-NSIONs.-Nortb Latitude.
o . I 2 . 3 4 5 6
·- - - -
. ll d. m • . d• . m. d. _m• . d. _
m. d. m. d. m. d. m•
-"!'"
- - -
0 57 4s 57 35 57 21 57 7 s6 53 s6 as 56 2J
I. ss 5I 5s 3s 5s:24- 5s 10 57 57 57 42 57 28
2 59 53 59 41· S.9 ·27 59 14 59 1 ss 47 58 3a ·
3 6o 56 6o 44-~ 6o 31 6o tH 6o 5 . 59 52 59 3
w
-- - --
4 6l 59 6r 47, 61 35 61 22 61 xo 6o 57 6o 44
5 6J. 3 6z.. 51· 62 39 62 27 62 15 62 2 61 so
6 64- 6 6J- 55 6J 43 63 32 63·· 20 6g 8 62 s6
7 65 9 64-59 64 47 64 37 64 25 64 1J 64 ,.
- - - - - -
8 66 13 66 3 6s 52 65 42 65 ao 65 19 6s 8
9 67-17 67 7 . 66 57 66 47 66 '36 66. 25 66 14
', 10 68 ·21 • 68 11. 6S 2 '67 52 67 42 . 6~ 31 6~ 21
' ' 6 28
''ll .
69' 25 69 t6 69'. 7 68 57 68 48 6 38
- - - - - -·
12 ]0 -29 70 21 70 12 70 3 69 54 69 45 69 35
IJ 71: '34 71 26 '71 17 71 9 71 0 70 51 70 42
. 14 72 ]8 72 31 7Z .22 . 72 .IS 72 6 71 ss 71 49
15 73 43" 73 36 73 28 73 21 73 13 73 5 72 57
- - - -· --
t6 74 47 . 74 41 74 33 74-27 74 19 74 12 .· 74 4
17 75 52 75 46 75 39 75 33 75 26 75 19 75 12
. t8 76·.57 76 51. 76 45 76 39 76 33 76 27 76 20
19 78 2 77 s6 77 .)1 77 45 77 40 77 34 77 2S
-~- - - -
20 79 7 79 2 ,s 57 7S 52 78 47 ,s 41 7s· 36
21 So 12 ~0 8 go 3 ~9 59 79 54 ~9 49 79 44
22 S1 17 S1 13 81 9 1 5 81 1 o 56 ~0 52
23 S2 22 82 I~ IS2 15 82 JJ S2 s' 82 4 82 0
-- ,.. -- -
24 83 3S 83 24 '83 21 8J J 8 83 15 sa u 83 9
25 84 33 84 JO 84 27 84 25 84 22 84 20 8+ 17
26 8s JS Bs 36. Bs 33 ss 32 Bs 29 85 28 8s 25
27 86 ..44 S6 42 86 4-0 86 39 86 37 86 J6 86 34
--- - - -- -··
28 s, 49 a, +9 s,·46 ! 87 46 87 44 87 44 87 42 .,
29 88 55 88 55 88 53 I ss 53 88 52 88 52 88 SI
30 90 0 9o 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0
~igitized by Google
-stl A N 1: L t,r U: S 1
T -·& · A T I 0 N
A TABL~ of RIGHT AscENSioNs,-South Latitude..-
---
~-~-
6
1 2 3 4 5
n ~ -d. rn.
- --- -
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. .d. m.
- - - -
0 57 48 sB 2 s8 IS s8 29 s8 42 s8 55 59 7
1 s8 51 59 4 59 17 59 30 59 43 59 55 6o 7
2 59 53 6o 6 6o 19 6o 31 ,.6o 44 6o s6 6r 8
3 6o s6 61 8 6r 2I 6I 33 6I 46 6I 57 62 9
-
--- ,---
4 6t 59 62 II 62 23 62 35 62 48 62 5s 63 9
5 63 3 63 14 63 25 63 37 6J so 63 59 64 10
6 64 6 64 17 64 28 64 39 64 52 6s 1 65 II
7 6s 9 65 20 65 31 65 41 65 54 66 2 66 12
- ....- - - -
8 66 13 66 23 66 34 66 44 66 56 67 4- 67 13
9 67 17 67 27 67 37 67 46 67 s8 68 6 6B 15
10 68 21 68 30 68 40 68 49 68 59 69 7 69 16
11 69 25 69 34 6g 43 6g 5Z 70 I 70 9 70 17
- - 70 s-;r:;r -
12 70 29 70 38 70 46 3 7r 1r 71 19
I3 71 34 71 42 71 49 71 58 72 5 72 13 72 21
14 72 38 72 46 72 53 73 I 73 8 73 IS 73 23
15 I 73 43 73 5° 73 57 74 4 74 I 1 74 18 74 25
__,
- - -
16 74 47 74 54 75 I 7.5 7 75 14 75 20 75 27
I
17 75 52 75 s8 76 5 76 II 76 17 76 23 76 29
18 76 57 77 3 77 9 77 15 77 20 77 26 77 31
I9 78 2 78 7 78 13 78 18 78 23 78 28 78 33
- - - -
20 79 7 79 12 79 1 7 79 21 ~9 26 79 31 79 35
21 So 12 So 17 8o 21 So 25 0 29 So 34 Ho 3~
22 S1 17 81 21 S1 25 8I 28 SI 32 8I 36 8I 40
I
23 82 22 82 25 82 29 82 32 82 3~) 82 39 82 42
- - - - -
24 0 83 28 83 30 83 33 s3 36 83 39 83 42 83 45
25 84 33 s4 35 84 37 84 40 84 42 84 45 84- 47
26 ss 3~ 85 40 85 4r 85 44 85 45 s5 48 8s 49
27 86 44 86 45 86 46 86 48 86 49 86 51 86 52
,_--..---- - - -
- ----
' 28 87 49 87 so 87 so 87 52 8~ 52 87 54 87 54
;
29 88 55 ss 55 88 55 ss 56 s 56 88 57 88 57
30 90 0 90 0 go 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0
~
Digitized by Google
0 F · A S T .R 0 -
L 0 G Y. .P9
ATABL.E of RIGHT AscENSIONS.~~ortb Latitude.
1--~--o__l_.-~--~--2-··- _2__1 .4 - __
s---l--6--
: e d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. j d. m. d. m. d. m•
.------~----1----1 -1 _,______,
0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0
1 91 5 91 6 91 7 91 7 91 7 91 8
2 ·92 9 9212 9214 9214 9215 9216
3 93 t6 93 18 93 20 93 20 93 2 3 93 24
90 0
91 8
92 J8
93 26
:--t---1-----t----1---- - - 1 · - - - l - - - 1
4 94 22
5 95 27
6 96 J2
9-1- 24
95 30
96 26
94 27
9S 33
96 39
97 45.
94 28
95 35
96 42
97 49
94 30
95 as
96 45
97 52
94 35
95 43
96 so
98 0
1--1·---1----·--1- ---·---1---1
97 42
99 4 99 8
100 12 100 16
7 97 as
8 98 43 98 47 98. so
9 99 48 . 99 52 99 S7
ro too 53 roo ss .101 3
98 55 . 99 0
100 0 100 7
10[ 8 101 14
102 15 102. 20
IOI I 9 101 24
IO:Z 26 102 52
n 101 5s 102 4 102 9
r---·-----~------·~---~----·---·--:-----~----·11
12 103 3 103 9 103 IS 103 20 103 37 103 33 IOJ 40
13 104 8 104 14 104 20 104 27 104 34 104 40 104 48
14 lOS xa .lOS r 9 lOS 2 7 lOS 33 lOS 4o 10S 4-8 lOS s6
15 ~6 17 11o6 24 1o6 33 1~6 39 ~6 47 :_6_s_s_,~7
__
3_1
16 107 22 107 29 107 38 107 43 107 53 108 2 108 9
17 108 26 to8 34 108 43 zo8 53 108 59 109 9 109 18
18 109 30 106 39 109 48 109 57 110 s IIO IS 110 25
19 110 35 I 10 44 110 53 111 3 11 I 12 lli 22 Ill J2
•----t---~----~--~-·l-----r------t-------1-----1
111 58 112 s
113 3 113 1
13
114 8 114 8
liS 13 115 23
11 2 J 8 II 2 29 112 35
113 24 113 35 113 46
114 30 114 40 114 52
115 as us 47 115 ss
20 I II 39 11 1 49
21 112 43 112 53
22 Il3 47 113 57
23 114 5I IlS 0
ll----l------~---l------1------l------l------l·------l
24 115 54 116 5 116 17 116 28 116 40 116 5~ 117 4
25 u6 57 l17 9 ll7 21 IJ7 33 l 17 46 117 s8 u8 10
26 118 o u8 13 118 25 u8 38 118 ss 119 3 119 16
27 119 4 _ll9 16 119 29 119 42 119 55 120 8 120 ,22'
·-t---·~---t------1·---t----J.---1
28 120 7 120 19
29 121 9 121 22.
JO l22 12 J22 25
No. 26.
120 33 _120 46
121 36. 121 so
122 39 122 53
6 L
120 59 121 13 121 27
122 3 122 18 12a 32
12J 7 123 22 123 37
3
Digitized b
y-Google
52o: A N I . L L U S T R A T I 0 N
A TABLE of RJGHT AscENSIONs.;.._South Latitude.
- .. - .... -
··- ·-
1 -___:__J -
0 3 4 5 6
- - - - -
l!l! d. m. d. ·m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d• . m.
- - -- -
0 90 0 90 0 90 ·o 90 0 90 0 90 0 90 0
J 91 ·s 91 5 . 91 5 91 4 91 4 91 3 91 ..
.)
2 92 9 92 10 92 9 92 8 92 8 92 6 92 6
3 93 16 93 15 93 14 93 12 93 9 93 9 93 8
- - - - - ---
+ 94 22 94 20 94 19 94 J6 94 15 9+ 12 94 9
.s 95 27 95 25 95 23 95 20 95 18 95 IS 95 13
6 96 32 96 30 96 27 g6 24 96 20 96 18 96 IS
7 97 3i 97 35 97 3° 97 28 97 25 97 20 97 I8
-
- - - - - -
8 98 43 98 39 98 .35 98.J2 98 28 98 24 98 20
9 99 48 99 43 99 89 99 35 99 30 99 26 99 22 I
IO 100_53 100 38 100 43 100 89 100 34 100,29 100 25
11 101 5s 101 53 101 47 101 42 101 37 101 32 101 27 '
--- - - - - -
12 103 3 102 57 102 so 102 45 102 40 102 34 102 29
lJ- 104 8 104 2 l03 55 103 49 IOJ 43 I03 37 lOJ JO
14 lOS 13 105 6 I04 59 104 52 104 46 104 4'0 104 33
lS I06 17 to6 IO 106 3 lOS s6 ros 49 105 42 105 35
.. .- .
- - - - - - -
16 107 22 107 14 107 7 106 59 106 52 106 45 106 37
17. roH 26 to8 tH 108 9 to8 2 107 55 107 47 10~ 39
,
J8 108 57 I-08 49
109 31 . 109 22 109 14 109 5 10 40
19 t 10__3_
$_ IIO 26 IlO 17 110 8 110 0 109 51 J09 43
·--- - - - - -
20 111 J9 111 :jo Ill 20 111 9 Ill 2 I10 53 I 10 +4
21 112 43 I12 33 IJ2 23 112 IJ 112 4 III 54 III 45
22 I13 47 I13 37 ua 26 113 16 113 6 112 56 112 47
23 11~ _
5_1 114 40 I 14 29 114 19 114 8 11 3 58 113 48
- - - - - -
24 115 ' 54. 115 43 us 32 us 20 us 10 ll4 59 114 49
25 It6 57 116 46 I 16 35 II6 23 116 12 n6 0 115 so
26 118 0 117 49 [J7 37 117 25 Jl7 14 II~ 2 116 so
27 119 . 4 118 50 I I 8 39 118 27 118 IS I I 3 117 52
- - - -
28 120 .7. 119 '54 119 -f.O 119 29 119 t6 119 4 Il8 52
29' 121 9 I2o 56 120 43 120 30 · 120 1~ 120 5 119 53
30 122 12 121 58 I21 45 121 30 121 ·t 121 5 120 53
Digitized by Coogle
0 F Pi S· T R 0 · L O· G Y.. 521
A TABLE of RIGHT AscENSIONs.-North Latitude•.
2 1 3 4 s 1 6
Q. -d-.-;---d-.-m-:1-d.-m~-d. m. d. m.- d. _m.-~ d. m-:
0 I
--o-1 -12_2_,1_2_1~5 122 3-;122 53-123 7- 123 2;-1123 37
I 123 14 123 2S 123 42 123 57 1"24 9 124 26 124 42
2 124 16 124 30 124- 45 I2S 0 125 IS 125 30 125 46
3 125 tS 125 33 125 48 126 3 126 18 126 34 126 so
--11---------------- ----1--·-
4 126 2~ 126 36 126 so :127 6 127 22
5 127 22. 127 38 127 54 i12H 9 128 25
6 128 24 128 4o 128 56 !129 12 129 28
7 129 2 5 129 42 ~29 5s ~~o 14 _•ao 30
127 38 127 54
128 42 • 28 58
129 45 130 2
130 48 131 5
I 1 - - - - - - 1
131 50 132 8
132 53 133 11
133 55 134 14
134 57 135 J6
8 130 26 130 43 131 0 jtJI 16 i131 33
9 131 27" 131 44 132 0 IJ2 18 '132 35
10 132 28 132 45 133 2 133 20 133 37
11 133 28 133 46 134 3. '34 21 134 39
1--·t-----:----~----·- ------1---r--·-
12 134 29 134 47 135 4 135 22 135 40 135 59 136 18
- 13 IJS 29 135 47 136 5 136 23 136 40 137 . 0 137 20
14 136 29 136 47 137 6 137 24 137 42 13S I 138 21
15 137 29 137 47 138 6 138 24 138 43 139 2 139 22
1--1---,:---11----------1--- -
16 138 29 i38 47 139
17 139 28 139 47 140
18 140 28 140 46 141
19 141 27 141 46 142
20 142 26 142 45 143
21 143 25 143 44 144
22 144 23 144 43 145
6 139 25 139 44 140 3 140 24
6 140 25: 140 45- 141 4 ,.141 25
6 141 25 141 45 142 5 142 26
6 142 25 142 ·45 143 6 r143 27
- - ----~---
5 143 25 143 45 144
4 144 24 144 45 l4S
3 145 24 145 45 146
2 146 23 146 44 147
1
6 '144 27
6 14-S 27
6 146 27
5 147 2 7
23 ~45 22 145 42 146
11--1---J.-·--1'--·---- ---1------1
24 146 20 146 40 147 0 147 22 147 43 148 4 148 26
25 147 18 147 39 148 0 148 20 148 42 149 3 149 25
26 148 16 148 37 148 58 149 1 9 149 41 150 2 t 5o 24
27 149 14 149 as 149 56 15o 18 tso 39 151 1 151 23
--~---1------1---1----1---· ---
28 ISO 12 ISO 33 ISO 54 151 15 151 37 lSI 59 IS2 20
29 lSI. 9 151 30 ISI 52 152 13 152 35 152 57 153 22
~o 152 6 152 27 t.'2 49 153 9 153 33 153 55 154 18
Digitized by Google
:5J-a ·A N I ·L L ·u S T · It A ·'T 1 O·N
A TABLE- of RIGHT Asc~wuoNa.-South Latitude. ·
., I :0
-- 0
0 :
1 2
I 3 I ' 4, .s
jd. m.:_
- ~- I - -
st d. m. d. m.:_ d. m.:_ d m. d. m. d. m.
- -
a 122 12 121 ss 1~1 45 12I 32. 121 18 12I 5 120 53
1 123 14 123 0 I22 47 122 33 122 19 122 6 121 53
2 124 16 124 2 123 48 123 34 123 20 123 6 122 53
3 125 19 I2J 3 1'24 49 124 35 124 20 124- 7 123 53
' - '
---
-
125 36 1125 22
4 125 20 126 5 125 51 125 7 124 53 '
5 I26 22 127 7 126 52 126 36 126 21. 126 7 125 52
6 Iz8 24 128 8 127 53 127 37 127 i2 127 7 126 52
7 129 25 129 9 128 54 128 37 128 22 128 . 7 127 so
-- - - -
8 130 26 130 9 129 54 129 37 129 22 129 6 128 so
9 131 27 131 9 13° 54 130 37 IJO 20 130 5 129 49
10 132 28 132 10 131 54 131 37 131 20 131 4 130 48
11 133 28 133 10 132 54 132 37 132 2o 132 3 131 47
- - - - -
12 134 29 134 11 133 54 133 37 133 19 133 2 IJ2 46
. 13 135 29 135 11 134 54 IJ4 36 134 t8 134 0 133 45
•
'14 1136 29 136 1I 135 53 135 35 1 35 17 1 35 0 134 43
15 p37 29 137 10 136 52 136 34 136 16 135 ss 135 40
-1;-1;;8 29
- -
138 10 137 51 1 37 33 137 15 136 57 1 36 39
17 139 28 139 9 J38 so 138 32 138 1:4 137 $5 137 37
18 140 27 140 8 139 49 '39 30 139 13 138 53 138 35
19 141· 27 141 7 140 48 140 29 140 9 189 5° I 39 33
- - - - -
20 142 26 142 6 141 27 141 27 141 8 l40 49 140 30
21 143 24 14-3 4 142 25 142 25 142 6 141 47 141 28
21. I44 23 I44 3 143 23 143 23 I43 4 142 45 142 25
23 145 22 145 I 144 2J I44 20 144 2 143 42 14J 22
- -
24 146 20 145 59 1 45 89 145 19 144 59 144 39 144 19
'
25 147 18 146 57 I46 37 146 17 IfS s6 1 45 36 145 16
26 148 16 14~ 55 I47 35 147 l4 146 53 ·146 33 146 13
27 149 I+ 14 53 148 J2 148 9 147 5° 147 39 147 9
- - -
28 ISO 12 I49 so 149 29 149 8 148 47 148 26 148 6
29 151 9 1so 47 ISO 26 tso 5 149 44 149 23 1 49 3
~0 152 6 151 44 15I23 lSI 2 ISO 40 ISO 20 149 59
Digitized by Coogle
'
0 F A S T ll 0 ·L 0 G Y.
A TABL~ or RIGliT AscENS.IONs.-North Latitude.
0 I 2 3 4 I 5 (>
- - - -- -
• d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. · d. m-:-1 d. m. d. nt
-- - -- - - -
0 '52 6 152 27 152 49 153 IO 153 33 !xsa ss 154 18
. 1 153 4 153 26 153 47 154 9 154 30 '154 53 155 16
2 154 0 154 22 IS+ 44 155 6 •56 14
3 154 ss 155 19 ISS 40 156 3
1 s5 29 jts5 so
156 26 :156 49 157 12
41 155 5-; xs6 16 156 39 157 ; 157 2-; 157 4-; 158 1-;
s 1156 so x57 13 157 36 157 5s 158 20 '5~ 44 159 B
6 1157 48 158 10 asS 33 ts8 55 159 IS 159 40 J6o 5
7 1
ts8 44 '59 7 •59 30 '59 52j16o '5 •6o 38 161 2
l--8-1
159 40 t6o ,.; 160 .2-:; t6o 49 ·16I 1;- 161 3-;161 5-;
9 160 37 161 0 161 23 161 46 162 9 162 J2 162 56
10 161 JJ 161 S6 162 19 162 42 16J 6 16J 29 16J SJ
" •t6z zy_~• s• t3 '!.._ •63 3~ 164 ·~ 164- •s •6+ 4~
12 t63 2S 16J 48 164. 10 164 J4 164 s8 165 20 165 45
13 ,164 20 164 44 165 7 t6s 3o 165 54 166 xs 166 42
14 1t6s r6 165 40 166 3 166 ·26 166 so 167 14 t67 J8
IS t66 -J2 1
r66 35 166 59 \167_ 22 167 46 t68 10 168 34
- _.....,____ - - - -··-- -
16 167 7 167 JO 167 55 168 18 168 42 169 6 169 30
17 168 3 r68 27 168 so 169 14 169 as 170 2 170 26
18 168 58 169 23 169 46 170 9 170 33 170 S7 1]1 20
19 169 54 170 18 170 42 171 5 171 29 1]1 53 172 17
- - 1 - - - - - __..;__..I - - - - - - ---1
20 170 49 171 13 171 37 '
1
172 0 172 25 172 49 173 IJ
21 171 44 172 s· 172 32 172 56 173 20 173 44 '74 8
22 172 39 173 3 173 271173 ·SO 174 15 174 39 175 3
23 173 35 173 58 · 174 2·2 174 46 1175 IO 175 34 175 58
11
_2_4_
1
174 3-;;174 5-:; 175 l7 175 4;,.,6 ~ 176 29 176 5;-
'25 175 25 ji15 ·48 q6 12-176 ·36 !177 · c 177 24 177 4<i
26 ,76 20 1
176 43 177 7 177 3o !
1
177 56 •78 19 17d 43
27 '77 15 1
'77 38 ,,s 2 178 26 178 so 179 14 179 31)
·- --- - - ________, - .._. -
10 l178 33 178 57 179 20 j179 45 tHo 9 t8o 3:~
5 179 28 IJ9 52 180 16 1IHo 40 181 4 181 28
0 ! ~to 2J _
l80 47 _
181 10 lt8t 35 181 59 182 23
28 1]8
.. 29 179
30 !Ho
No. 26. 6M
Digitized by·Google
..
514 A N ·I L L U S T R A T I ·O .N
A TABLE of Ru)uT AscENSioNs.-South Latitude.
0 1 2 3 s . 6
- 1 - - · - 1 - - - - - - 1 - - - l l - - - 1 - - - - t - - · - - t l
1IA d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
____,______,______,______,______,______11------1----·~·
o· 152 · 6 151 44 151 23 151 2 150 40 150 20 149 59
1 153 ·4 •s2 40 152 20 1.Sl 59 •s1.38 151 16 ISO ss
2 1 54 0 I 53 38 I 53 17 I 52 55 152 34 I 52 12 I S1 51
3 154 s8 154 35 154 13 153 40 153 ao •53 8 152 47
---------------___,__,_,,___
4 ISS 54 ISS 32 155 10 154 48 154 26 154 4 153 43
.~ 156 so ts6 29 ts6 s 155 44 155 22 ISS 0 154 39
6 157 48 '57 25 157 3 156 40 156 ·13 us s6 ~:ss 34
7 IS~ 44 ts8 22 157 59 157 36 157 I+ 156 52 '5.6 ao
--~------------11-----1----1
8 1 59 4" 1 5
'9 18 1 58 55 158 32 •s8 10 r57 48 157 26
9 16o 37 16o 14· 159 so 159 28 159 6 158 43 15H 2()
to 161 52 161 10 t6o 47 t6o 24 t6o 2 159 39 159 17
11 r62 29 162 6 161 43 t61 20 t6o sS x6o 35 160 12
--:---1---1------1---1---·---
12 163 25 163 2 162 39 162 16 161 53 161 JO 161 7
1 3 164 20 163 5R 163 35 163 12 162 49 162 25 162 2
14 165 16 164 5~ 164 3o 164 7 163 +
4 163 20 162 57
15 166 12 165 48 165 25 165 2 J 64- 39 I 64 I 5 I 63 52
_..,..._._ -- -- -- -
J6 16] 7 166 44 166 20 165 57 16S 34 I6S 10 164 47
17 168 3 167 40 167 17 166 52 166 29 166 5 1-6s 42
J8 168 sH I68 35 t68 12 167 +7 167 24 167 0 r66 37
19 169 54 169 30 169 7 168 43 168 19 J67 55 t67 32
-----1--·--1---1----1---------
t68 27
J69 22
IJO 17
171 12
172 7
173 · 2
173 57
174 52
. DigitizedbyG ogle
. .
·
o .F A S T R 0 'L 6 G Y.
A TABLE of RIGHT AscENSIONs.-Nortb Latitude.
5
3 1 +
0 I 2
' --1--·-1---·t----
6 4
_____,___
.o. .d. m. d. m. d-
. in. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m•
.,___,____,____----------------
o 180 o 180 23 180 47 181 10 I81 a5 1
_
&1 59 182 2a
I 180 55 t81 :18 181 42 182 6 182 30 182 54 183 18
2 18 I 50 I82 I 3 I 82 ·a7 I 83 0 1
183 25 I 83 49 184 I 3
3. 182 45 IBa 8 183 32 183 56 184 eo d~4 44 185 s
11--t-·--1-----·-~---- --- ---·----1
4 18a 4o 184 3 ~184 27 :184 5o
j · 184 3~ 184 5~ II85 22 IH5 46
6 1Bs 3o 185 54 lt86 18 186 42
7 186 25 t&6 491187 13 187 37
-- -
8 187 20 187 44 it88 8 t88 32
(} 188 16 188 391189 3 189 27
10 189 10 189 3+ .189 5s 190 22
11 . 190 6190 2919053 19117
185 ts ·185 89 186 3
•86 10 . 186 34 •86 sH
187 6 : ,s-, 30 187 53
188 o t&S .25 188 4B
; ss s6 -;89 2o 1
-;89 4a
189 5o 1 9o 1 5 1
1 9o .-3s
190 46 191 10 119.1 33
191 40 192 5 192 28
'11---1---·-1---J--·---1--- ---1---·J---•u
12 191 2
J 3 191 57
14 192 53
15 193 48
,___
16 194 44
17 195 40
18 196 35
19 197 ao
25 191 48 192 13 il92 36. '93 0 193 23
20 192 43 193 8 193 JO 193 55 194 18
I6 193 39194 3 19426 · 19450 19513
12 194 35 194 5s 195·.20 195 45 196 8
195 7
196 2
r96 5s
197 54
195 30 ;95 :s3 ~96 16 -;;6 4~1;;, 3 ~7;.
196 ~5 196 4s 197 10 197 35 197 5s 1
7
197 2o 1..97 44 ·19~ 7 •98 30 19~ S3
198 17 198 40 199 2 199 25 199 48
20 ~-8-2-,-~;;·-8-5-o-1 199 131;99 36 ;99 58 ~o 20 ;~o 43 r
21 199 23 19~ 46 200 9 i200 32 200 54 201 16 !2c1 39
22 200 20 200 42 2C I 5 !201 28 20 I 50 202 IZ :202 34
23 :zo• .16 201 ·as 202 1 l2o2 24 202 46 zo3 s ·2o3 3o
12 ~·-2_3_5_ ;02 57 1~03 20 ~03 42 ~4 4 ;4 26
9 2o3 3o 203 53 204 16 204 as zo5 o 2o5 20 f
6 'lo4 129 2o4 5o 205 12 205 34' 2o5 56 206 17
2 Z05 25 205 47 206 9 206 30 206 52 ~07 J6
~---1--- -·-- ----1--- --- -·-----
2H · 205 ~59 206 22 · 206 +3 207 o 207 26 207 48 208 9
29 106 57 _
1.07 19 207 40 ,208 5 208 22 208 44 209 5
30 207 54 2C,8 16 208 37 :208 58 1.C9 19 20:) 40 210 0
Digitized by GoogIe
;z6 A N I L L U S T It ~ T I 0 N
A TABLE of RIGHT A&CENSIO'W&,-South Lat~tude.
.
I. 0 1 2
I 3 4 I 5 6
I --- - d~ m~jd. m. ~d.m.
I .00 d. ·m. d. m • d. m.
I
-- -- - - - -
0 180 0 179 37 179 13 178 49 178 25 178 0 177 37
1 180 ss t8o 32 d:So 8 179 44 179 20 178 59 1]8 32
2 rat so 181 27 18I 3 180 39 x8o IS 179•so 179 27
3 182 4-5 182 22 181 58 181 34 181' 10 J80 46 11)0 22
- ---- - -
4 t8J 40 183 17 182 53 182 29 1
182 5 181 40 t~H 17
5 184 35 184 12 183 48 183 24 183 0 _182 36 182 12
6 tBs 3o .s5 7 184 43 184 19 183 55 IRJ 30 t8J 7
7 tS6 25 186 2 1s5 3s 185 14 184 so t84 26 184 2
-.--- - - - -
s 1S7 186 57 1S6 33
I
•Bs 20 l84 57
20
186 9 ~5 45
9 188 J6 t87 52 r87 28 IB7 4 186 40 t86 16 185 52
lO t89 to JS8 47 188 23 187 59 187 35 1S7 10 1~6 47
11 190 6 189 42 189 IS t88 55 r88 30 t88 7 t87 4-3
- -
12 191 - 2 190 as 190 14 1S9 so 189 27 189 3 18~ 39
13 191 57 191 33 191 . 9 190 ...6 190 22 189 5s 1b9 34
14 1192-53 192 29 192 5 191 42 191 18 190 54 190 ao
IS II93 48 193 25 193 0 192 38 192 14 191 .so 191 26
-:6j';;4- 44
- - -
194 20 193 57 193 34 193 10 192 46 192 22
.17 '195 40 195 16 194 53 194 30 IQ4 6 1 93 42 igJ 18
I~ 196 35 196 12 195 49 195 26 195 2 1 94 39 194 15
19 197 JO 197 8 196 45 196 22 195 ss 195 35 195 10
- - -- -
20 198 27 191-) 4 197 40 197 IS 196 54 196 JO 196 7
21 199 23 1
199 0 198 37 198 14 197 5°• 197 28 197 4
22 200 20 1
199 56 199 33 199 -10 198 48 198 25 19H 0
23 20_
1 16 ;zoo 53 200 JO 200 8 199 45 199 22 ,9s 5s
- ----- - -
24 202 I 2 ~201 50 201 27 201 5 200 42 2CO 19 199 55
25 203 9 202 47 202 24 202 2 201 39 .zo1 16 200 52-
26 .204 6 1
:203 44 203 20 202 59 202 36 202 13 ~01 so
27 1205 2 204 40 204 19 203 57 2°3 34 203 10 202 48
-- - - --- - -
28 ·1205' 59 205 38 205 16 204 54 204 JO 204 9 203 46
29 1
2o6 57 206 35 206 13 205 so 20$ 29 205 7 204 44
jO '207 57 2°7 33 1.C7 10 206 49 206 27 206 5 205 42
- '
-
o igitizoo by Google
0 F A S .T R 0 L 0 G Y.
A TAnL-e of RIGHT A&cENSioNs.-North Latitude.
--------
._.____
o .
_I_ I . 1 2 ,_]__2__, 4 _:_ ~-~ 6 _
nt d. m. j d. m. Id. m. d. m. i d. m. d. m. d. m.
--- --~ . - --:-- - ' - --. -
0 207 54 '208 16 208 37 208 58 j209 19 20g 40 210 I
1 208 51 :209 13 209 34 209 55 1
210 I6 210 37 2IO 57
2 209 49 210 10 210 31 210 52 1
211 1J ,21 I 34 211 54
3 210 46 21( 7 211 28 211 49 212 10 :212 31 212 51
1 - -
4 '121 1 4;~2 5 212 2-; 212 46 213 -; 213 2.-:;·213 47
5 21,2 41 213 3 213 23 213 43 1214 4 214 24 214 44
6 1~u3 4o 214 1 214 21 21 4 41 215 I 215 21 215 41
1
__
1_1
214 3s 214 59 215 29 215 39 i215 58 216 18 216 3s
s!215 3-:; 215 57 ~~~6 1;- 216 37 1
1
216 56 217 1-; 217 3-;
9 1
216 36 216 56 .21 7 15 217 a5 217 54 218 13 218 3x
IO 1
217 34 217 54 '218 13 218 33 21H 51 219 II. 219 29
11 .218 33 21a 53 j••9 " 21 9 a• 21 9 5o 220 9 22o • 7
1-1 -- - . - -
12 1219 33 219 51 220 I I 220 JO 220 48 221 7 221 25
13 1220 JI 220 51 221 10 221 28 221 46 222 5 222 23
I4 221 31 221 50 222 9 222 27 222 45 22J 3 22J 21
IS 222 31 1222 so 223 8 \223 26 223 44 224 I 224 19
------- - - _.......__ -
16 223 31 223 49 224 7 !224 25
17 224 31 224 49 225 6 1225 24
18 225 JI 225 49 226 6 226 23
I9 22.6 Jl, 226 49 227 6 1
227 23
--- -·---,
20 227 31 227 49 228
21 228 33 228 49 229
22 229 34 229 50 230
23 230 35 230 51 231
6 1228 23
6 !229 23
6 1
;230 23
6 23 I 2J
224 43 225 0 225 17
225 41 ~25 59 226 15
226 4 I 226 58 227 14
227 40 227 57 228 IJ
---- ----1
228 39 228 56 229 12
229 39 229 55 2JO II
230 38 2JO 54 231 10
231 J8 231 53 2,12 9
1 - - ---1---·
1---1---1---r---r---
24 231 36 231 51 2J2 7 232 23 232 38 232 53 233 8
25 232 33 232 53 233 H 233 24 233 38 233 53 234 8
26 233 40 233 55 234 9 234 24 234 as 234 53 235 7 -
27 234 41 234 57 235 I I 235 25 235 39 2 35 53 236 7
-- --·-'------ --1--·-1---1--- .
28 z35 43 z35 5_s z36 13 236 26 236 40 236 54 237 7 _
29 236 46 237 0 237 l4 237 27 237 41 237 54 . 238 . 7
30 237 48 238 I .2$8 15 238 29 238 41 23H 55 239 7
No. 26. 6 N 3
/ -
Digitized by Coogle
.
5·~s A N l L L U S T R A T I 0 N
A. T AB~E of RIGHT AscENSioNs.-South Latitude.
0 · 1 .___:__! 3 4 5 6
- - - -·
1'lt . d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
- - - -
I
.
-
206 49 206 27 206
0 207 54 .20~ 33 '207 11 5 205 41
J 208 51 '20 30 :208 8 207 47 207 25 207 3 206 40
2 2.0 9 49 209 27 209 6 208 45 '1.08 23 208 1 207 38
'
3 j2IO 46. r.zro 25 ~10 4 209 43 .209 21 208 59 20~ 37
- - - - - - -
4 :ZI J 44 211 25 211 J 210 41 210 19 209 s8 209 36
$ ::ZI2 41 '212 21 1'212 0 211 39 211 18 210 57 210 35·
. 6 213 40 ·213 20 212 59 212 38 212 17 211 56 211 34
7 214 38 1
21.1- 18 213 ss 213 37 213 16 212 55 212 33
- - - - --
8 215 37 215 17 2 14 57 214 36 214 15 213 54 2I3 33
9 216 36 216 t6 21 5 56 . 215 36 215 l-5 214 54 2'14 33
IO 217 34 217 15 216 55 216 35 216 15 215 54 2 15 33
11 ·2 I 8 3~ 218 "4 21 7 54 217 35 217 15 216 54 2t6 33
-- - - - - - -
12 219 33 219 14 218 54 218 35 218 15 217 55 217 34
13 220 31 220 13 2 19 54 219 35 219 t5 218 56 218 35
14 221 31 221 13 220 54 220 35 220 J6 219 57 219 36
I 15 222 31 222 13 221 54 221 36 221 17 220 5~ 220 38
I
,_ - - --- - - -
r
' 16 223 3' 223 1'3 222 54 222 36 222 J8 221 59 221 39
17 224 31 224 13 223 55 223 37 223 19 223 0 222 40
18 225 3 ·1 225 14 224 56 224 as 224 20 224 1 223 41
19 226 3·1 226 14 225 57 225 39 225 21 225 3 224 44
-- -
~~~~6 5s - - -
20 227 J1 22~ 226 40 226 23 226 5 225 46
21 228 33 22 16 227 59 227 41 227 25 227 7 226 49
22 229 34 ~29 17 229 0 228 44 228 27 228 9 1
227 51
23 230 a~ ~30 18 230 I 229 46 229 29 229 1I 1
228 5~
- · - - - -
24 231 36 ~JI 20 231 4 2JO 48 230 31 230 15 229 5s
25 232 J8 232 21 232 6 2Jl 51 231 35 231 18 ~J I I
26 233 4.0 233 24 233 9 232 54 232 38 232 21 232 6
27 234 4·1 234 27 234 11 233 57 233 41 233 26 233 lO
-
- -- - - - -
28 235 43 235 29 2 35 15 235 o·1234 45 234 3° 234 14
29 236 46 236 31 236 18 2J6 3 1
235 49 235 34 235 t8
~0 2,'37 48 237 3 .; 237 21 237 1 23~ $3 2j6 38 2J6 21.-
Digitized by Coogle
"
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
A 'fABLE of RrGHT AscENSIONs.-North Latitude.
0 : I · 2 . 3 I 4 5 6
--r-----r--....,_. __.............._ -r----r---1
11
--t-
· _d_._m_._:_d_._m.:. d•. m_:_,_d._m_._I d. m. _,_d._m_:_1
_d._m,_.-1
0 237 4-8 ~38 I 238 15 238 29 238 41 238 55 239- 7
I I 2J8 51 239 4 239 17 239 30 239 43 239 55 240 4
2 239 53 240 6 240 19 240 3I 240 44 240 56 24 I s
3 z4o 56 241 9 241 2r 241 33- 24r 45 241 57 242 9
--4-r241~9 ~2 :-;- 242 2;-;42 35 1242 46- 242 sS1~43 9
5 24-3 3 243 14 243 25 1
243 37 243 48 243 59 .244· 10
6 244 6 244 I 7 244 28 244 39 244 50 245 1 1
245 II
___!__ 245 ~ 245 ~~ 245 3:._\245 41- 245 51_ 246 :..1246 11
8 246 t 3 246 23 246. 34 :2 ,11) 44 246 54 247 4 24-7 r 3 '
9 247 17 247 27 247 37 1
247 47 247 s6 24-~ .h 248 15
IO 248 21 248 3o 248 4o 248 49 248 58 249 7 249 16
11 249 25 249 34 1249 43 249 51 250 0 250 . 9 250 17
·------- ....._ - . ·-
12 250 29 250 38 . 250 46 250 55 251 3 251 1 r 251 19
1 3 2 51 34 2 51 4 r 2 51 49 2 51 58 2 52 5 2 52 1 3 252 21
14 252 38 252 46 252 53 253 1 253 8 253 15 253 23
IS 253 43 253 so 253 57 254 4 254 J 1 254 18 254' 25
1--·:--- ___,._________,____ - . ___,_____
16 254 47 254 54 255 1 25S 7 255 14 255 2o 255 23
17 255 51 255 58 256 s 256 1x 256 17 256- 21 256- 29
18 256 57 257 3 257 9 257 15 257 19 257 25 257 31
19 258 I 258 7 258 13 258 18 25ti 23 258' 28 258 33
20 !259 -:; 259 1-;259 1-:; 259 21- 259 26-.259. 31-259 3-;
2f !260 I I 260 17 260 21 260 25 26o 29 260 34 260 38
22 261 17 261' 21 261 25 261 28 261 31 261 36 261 40
23 262 21 262 2S 262 29 262 31 262 35 262 39 262 4I
_ _, _ _ _ - _! - - _ _ _ ;.,.._.__._
24 263 28 263 30 263 33 263 36 z63 39 263 41 . 263 45
25 ~64 3.l 264 35 264 37 264 40 264 41 264 45 264 47
26 265. as 265 40 265 41 26s 44 265 45 265 ' 48 :265 49
27 266 44 266 45 266 46 266 48 266 49 266 5I !266 51
,__,___,_____--- - - -'---
28~ 261 49 267 SO 267 50 267 5I 267 5J1 267 54 267 54
29 268 55 26t> 55 268 55 26~ 56 268 56 26H s7 26H 57
..a.-E. 270 0 27.0 0 270 0 270 0 270 0 27.0 0 270 0
Digitized by Coogle
530 A N I L L U S T Jt A T _
I C N
A TABLE of RIGHT AscENSioNs.-South Latitude.
l 0 1 2 3 4 I 5 I .6 .
1 --~-d.~~ d. m-:- d. m~..d. m. d. m~~ d. r:.-1d. m.
---;;237 48 237 a-;237 2-;237 -:; 236 sa ;236 3sl236 23
1 1238 5I 23S 38 238 24 238 I0 237 57 237 41 237 28
2 239 53 239 41 239 .28 1239 14 239 I 23H 47 238 33
3 24o 56 24o 44 24o 31 1
24o 18 :24-0 5 239 51 239 38
__,___ ---- - ._...
4 241 59 241 47 241 35 241 21 '241 10 1240 57 1
240. 44
5 243 3 242 51 24-2 39 24-2 27 1
242 15 242 I 1241 50
6 244 6 243 5s 24-3 43 24-3 31 1243 20 243 s 1
24-2 s6
7 245 9 244 59 244 47 244- 37 1
244 25 244 I 3 1244 2
.--..JI&- - - - - .-..,._._.. - - - - -
I
8 246 13 246 3
9 247 17 247 7
10 248 21 248 11
24.S 51- 245 41 1245 30
246 57 246 47 1
246 36
24-8 1 24-7 5 I 1
247 41
249 7 24H 57 !248 48
245 19 245 8
246 25 246 14
24-7 31 247 21
248 38 24-ff 28
11 249 24 249 16
._.-1-----J--._..- --·------
12 250 29 250 21 250 .l I
13 251 34 251 26 251 _l7
14 1252 38 252 31 252 21
IS 1253 43 253 36 253 28
--:6!254 4-;- 254 4-;254 33
17 1
255 51 255 46 2 55 39
zH 256 57 256 SI 2S6 45
I9 :258 1 257 56 257 51
20 259 7 259 1 258 57
2I 260 I 1 260 8 260 3
22 261 17 261 IJ 261 9
23 262 21 262 ~~ 262 IS.
250 3
251 9
252 IS
253 21
254 27
2 55 33
2 56 39
257 45
258 51
2 59 59
261 5
262 II
I - --
249 54 249 45 249 35
251 0 250 51 250 41
252 6 251 5s 251 49
253 13 253 5 252 57
- --
254 I9 254 11 254 4
255 26 _
255 19 255 1 l
256 33 :256 27 256 19 '
257 40 1257 34 257 2~
258 47 258 41 ~58 36
259 54 259 49 259 44
261 1 260 s6 260 52
262 8 262 4 262 0
u--1---·~--- -·--1--·- --- ----·--
24 263 28 263 24 263 21 263 18 263 IS 263 II 263 9
25 264 33 264 JO ·264 27 264 25 264 21 264- 19 264 I7
26 265 3s 265 36 265 33 265 31 265 29 265 28 265 26
27 266 44 266 41 266 40 266 39 266 37 266 36 266 J4
- - -- - - -
28 267 49 267 49 267 46 267 46 207 44 267 44 267 43
29 268 55 268 54 26H 53 268 53 268 51 268 SI 268 51
30 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 0
... . ...... , . . . ._;·
Digitized byGoogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
ATABLE ·of RIGHT Asc.xNsloNs.-North Latitude. f.
____
o__L_~---~--2- 3. 4 I .5 - -io--. :
. ~ d. m. d~ m. d. m-:- d. m-: d. ln:-1 .dJ,: m~ d. : ;
- - i - ~ -
0 270 . 0 27b 0 270 ' 0 ' 270 0 270 0 276 0 270 0
1 271 5 271 5 2 7x 5 271 ·4 . 2 71 4 2 71 . 3 271 3
2 272 1 J 27'2 to 27.2 to 27~ 8 272 8 27~ 6 272 6
3 273 16 27;3 15 273 14 27S 11 273 I I l273 9 '1.73 . 8
i . - - - · t - - - t l
4 ·
1274 21 274 19 274 19 274 16 27~ ·15 ·274 .11 274- ,11
5 275 27 275 25 275 23 275 ,20 275 I8 275 IS 275 .13
6 276 3I .276 30 276 ~ 27 276 .24. 276 21 276 t8 2]6 IS
1 . 277 38 277 3s ~77 a.' .277 ~a .277 25 . 2:77 2·1 ~77 18
1-----1---..1---..J---1--.-1---1---
8 278 43 278 39 278:35 278 31 , 278 28 278 24 I 278 20
9 279 4H 279 43 279 ·39 · 279 35 279 31 279 26 279 21
·1
.0 280· 53 2~0 48 · 280 :43 ~ 28o 39 · 2Ho 34 2-io 29 280 25
u 1
281 sH 281 53 . 281 47 · 28I 41 : 281 37 . 281 31 281 27
I _l - -
:'12 ,28'3 '3 . 282 57 282 SI 282 •45 282 40. 282 34 . 282 29
13 l284 8 . 284 t 283 55 2S3 :49 283 43 283 37 283 31
14 ·1285 13 285 · 6 · 284 59 · z84 ·sa .284 46 . 2H4 -40 z84 33
.IS 2B6· J7 , 286 IO 286 3 285 ;56 : 285 49 285 41 285 3S
-- ----·--·1---·1-----1"!!
-~----·--!l-~-
16 287. 21 287 14 287 7 · 286 59 286 51 286 45 : 286 37
17 z88 26 288 18 28'8 11 288 · 1 287 s-s 287 ;47 287 39
. r8 289 31 289 21 289 14 z89· .5 z88 57 288 49 . 28!S 41 ·
19 290 35 290 26 · 290 '17 290: 8 290. 0 289-51 289 43
--11---1---1--.....!·---1~---~--- ---
·20 129139 291 30 · 2(}1 20 ~ 291 11 .291 I 290 53 290 44 ;
· 21 292 ·43 · 292 33 · 292: 23 · 292 .13 292. 4. 291 SS 291 _
45 '
22 ·293 i+T 293 · 37 293 26 293 16 293 6 z92 56 292 47
1.3· 294· 51 - 294-·40 c 294 29 29:4 19 294. s 293 58 29,q .4s ·
--~~-----~-------1------J-----1---~-1--.-
.---1-------
295 21 295 ·10 •294 59 ·294 49
296 23 296 II 296 1 295 50
1.97 25 297 14 297 2 . 296 .·.s1 ;
298 _
27 298 ·rs : 29~ 3 297 .51 ,
24 295 54- 295 43 295 JI
25 296 51 i296 46 296 35
26 298 1 1297 49 297 37
.·.''.? 299 ;_f9s ·5~ 298 39 ·~-----~------~~
!8 JOO 71299- 54 299 41 299 29 299 16 299 4 , 298 52 .
29 J Ol 9 JOO 56 · JOO 43 JOO JO .~00 17 300 S;299 53
JO J02 1 I !301 58· ~OI' 45 J01 J1 JOI 18 JOI ·5 . JOO -53
; . a.
No. 27. 6 0 s..3... ... ··- ·
Digitized by Coogle
53~· A N I L L U S· T It A T l 0 N
A..TABLB of RIGH-T AscENsroNs.--SoUTH LATI TUJ)E.
0 1 3 4 5 6
u-~-r---·-1--- .......- - --1------1----~·-----IL
~ ~ d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d~ m. ~
;._-1·---t-·--- - - - -.....t----t.----t----11~~
.0 2'JO 0 270 0 270 o 270 0 270 0 270 0 270 o
i 271 5 271 6 271 7 27 I 8 27I 8 271 8 271 9
I ~ 272 ll 272 Jl 272 14 272 I'S l72 J6 272 16 272 1~.
3 273 16 273 '18 273 20 l73 23 273 23 273 24 273 26
--------------- ---·--·-1.----1
4 ~74 21 274 24 ~74 26 . 274 JI 274 31 274 31 274 34
.~ 275.27 275 30 275 33 175 aB 275 38 275 40 275 48
6 276 3'2 · 216 36 276 39 276 45 276 45 276 48 ~76 5I
7 277 38 277 ·4, 277 +5 1.77 51 277 SJ 277 s6 278 · o
11---r------......:--r----r----t-----1----1'---tf
8 278· 4:3 278 47 278 5I %78 59 278 59 279 4 279 8
9 279 4-8 279 51 279 57 280 6 280 6 280 11 280 16
10 2Bo 53 280 58 281 3 281 13 281 13 2fh z9 281 24
11 281 5s 282 4 282 9 282 20 282 .20 282 26 282 31
-----I---------II-----I----_.t-----~------l·----~-----
12 2S3 3
I 13 284 8
14 2&5 lJ
15 286 17
283 9 28-3 15 2S3 1t7 283 27 283 33 283 40
284 14 284 21 284 .34 28!4 34 284 41. 284 48
285 19 285 27 285 41 285 41 285 48 285 .s6
286 24 286 Jl 286 47 28.6 47 286 ss 28:7 3
'• .. r-.....-.-- -- - ,_.
'
16 287 21 ~87 ~ 2S7 3:8 28,7 54 28'7 54 288 I 288 Jl
1-7 288 26 288 34 . 28~ 43 289 17 289 0 289 9 289 18
, 18 289 g-1 289 39 ·289 48 2'0 56 290 6 290 15 z9o 2 5
19 290 35 ' 290 44 290 5~ 29·1 3 291 11 291 21 291 31 .
II•·- -t-------1--- ---·1-----1----~--!'
--
. -tl
, 20 29r 39 291 49 291 ss ~92 8
21 292 43 292 53 293 3 293 13
22 293 47 293 57 294 8 294 18
23 294 51 295 1 295 l·3 '29,5 23
fl92 J8
293 24
294 JO
295 35
292 29
293 35
294 41
295 47
%92 39
293 46
294 51
295 ss
·~---- -.(.__..........._ ..,_,....---1----+---·t---
-....
: 24 1.95 54 296 5 ·296 17 296 28 z¢ 40 296 53 297 4
25 296 s.7 297 ·9 297 21 1.97 38 297 45 297 ss 298 10
26 298 1 '298 ..t3 298 95 29.8 as 298 so.299 3 299 16
: 27 299 4 ~99 ·t6 299.29 299 41 299 55 aoo 8 ~00 a2
~-- -~
28 JOO 7 ~00 19 300 !J :30.0 46 !300 '59 JOI ; 3 ~I 27
Z9 go,r 8 3o1 21 301 36 301 so 1302 3 302 18 302 31
· 1Q ~02 11 ,<:J02 2\ ~02 g'9 · 302 53 303 7 iJ03 ·21 · !303 ,37; ·
..
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A s·T. R.: O: L O 'G Y.
A T·ABLB of RIGHT A.scENSIONs.-NoRTH LATI1'UDE.
0 I 2 3 I 4 s 6
. . - .-- .. . - t!' .•.• ... •. .. . . . .. . .. . ..
- d. ~· d. m~ d. Pl• d. Ph . d. m. d. m. . d. m.
- -
. ·- ~~ . . . - .. -··-- - . - -
- ·
0 302 u JOI ·$8 JOl .45 301 J1 301 t8 JOI
i ~00 52
I 303 J.f. 303 0 J02 47 3°2 33 302 19 J02 301 52'
2 JO+ 16 304 I J03 ··8 3°3 34 303 20 J03 6 1302 52
3 305 18 3°5 3 304 so ~4 35 304 21 304 7_ 303 52
- . .
- =:!> . -· . - - ···
-- ... .. . ···-- .. ...
4 306 20 ao6 s laos SI -JOS g6 305 21 305 7 1304 52
5 J07 21 307 7 .'ao6 51 306 36 J06 21 ao6 7 3°5 51
6 JOB 24 J08 .
8 1307 53 '30~ 3·
7 ~07 22 307 7 j3o6 51
7 J09 25 JQ9 9 lJ08 54 ao 37 J08 22 30~ 7 ,307 s•
- \
- ... -- -·-. . .. ·- -'1!-- . . . . - ~
n3~8 so
8 ~10 ()/) JlO. ).() ~09 54 f309 37 J09 2·1 ~9
9 Jll :27 .Jll ·19 ~~0 ·54 Jlo- 37 JlO 21 )10 309 49
IO Jl2 28 Jl2 11 JH 5J4. Jll 37 1311 2~1 ~H · 310 4l3
11 313 28 .J13 12 312 54 J12 37 Jl2 20 J12 3 JI.J 47
-· - . .
·--··-- ua . -••-- . ..
-
:Ia J14 29 314 11 313' 54 .313 .37 ~13 19 313 2 Jl-2 46
lt3 3!S 29 3'i ll 314 .54 314 -a6 .~14 t:B J14 '1 .13~3 4! '
14 316 :29 31 ~ ~ 1 315 ;58 315 35 315 1'7 JlS 0 JI-4 442
15 317 29 1317 10 I:JI6 51 J16 34 J16 t-6 315 s.8 3x'S 4Jl
...... -···· - ---- •··- .. . .
16 J18 29 318 19 31~ 51 3•7 33 ~17 15 3I6 S'J J J6 3.<} '
J 17 Jl•
9 28 319 9 31 5() 318 31 JI~ 1:4 317' 55 ~ 17 37
l$ 320 27 320 . .8 319 49 JI9 go 319 II 318 53 318 3J i
I
I
19 32'1 27 321 7 ~20 4,-8 320 29 .J-20 1:0 J19 3~
319 5"
..
- • ·
- -' ... -- -- .
20 J22 26 322 6 ~21 47 132~ 27 321 8 J20 49 J20 3;1
2;1 32-3 2S. 323 ' 4 ~:1.2 45 J22 25 322 6 321 4'J ~2I 28
2~ J24 23 32~ ' 3 323 43 3.23 .23 1323 4 ~22 45 .J22 2'S
23 .325 .22 32.5 : ;1 324 4-1 324 21 323 s• 323 4·1 323 2·2
. ' --- ..
IM --r -.. - . ·- ·· ---~~
24 326 20 31.5 59 j32s 39 325 19 1324 59 324 39 324 19 ~
25 1327 IS 326 57 J26 37 ~26 17 ~25 s6 ~25 36 325 16
26 j328 16 J2i SJ J-27 J.l 1327 '14 1326 53 326 33 •326 U!
2'J 329 !14 3-2 53 J28 3.1 32~ 11 327 so J27 30 13.27 10
1
. . ..
- . . - , . s_:e..-
28. 330 11 J29 so J29 29 ~29 8 J28 47 328 -27 J1l8 6
29 331 9 33° 47 330 26 33° 5 ~29 44 329 .23 ·329 3
JO 332 . 6 !JJI # 331 23 331 1 330 ·41 330 20 '3~ 59
.....
Digitized by Coogle
s~ A N' l L· L. U S T: R. A T I O·N
A TABLE ofRIGH.T A.~~EJU_~Ql!_s.--South Latitude_
.·
0 1 2 3 'I 4 5 .. - ~- .. I
=~:-:,.:.._ d. ~.:_ d. ,;,~~- m. Id• .;: d. m~~· _m. 1
0 J02 I 2 302 25 302 39 ;3~2 53 303 7 _303 21 ~OJ 37
1 303 14 303 28 303 42 303 57 304 11 304 26 304 41
2 3_04 16 304 31 304 45 305 - 0 305 :15 305 30 305 46
3 3<>5 t8 305 3'3 305 4-B J()6 · 4 306 18 306 34 306 so
__,_____ .. - - --- - - ~ .. --- - ..-::;;
' 4 '3o6 2o 3o6 3-6 3o~ s~ 3o7 ·6 367 21 307 38 3o7 ·54· i
s ~o7 22 307 as 307 54 308 9 308 25 ,308 4 1 3os 5 ~ l
6 J08 2 4 J08 40 ~8 56 309 I I 3o9 2 9 . J09 -45 ~10 l ,
j_ 7 ~09 2~ J09 4:.. JO'J 5~ JIO 14 ~0 .J1_ ~: 3_
11 _5_ l
' 8 310 26. JlO 43 ~ti . 0 ~II J6 ~it 34 J1i ':51 Jl2 8 _ ~
9 Jll 27 31l 44 312 1. 31~ .18 13·~ '35 Jl2 J4 1313 11 !
10 JI2 28 312 45 313 2 313 19 313 37 ~13 ,55 ~14 14 .
11 JlJ :z8 313 46 Jl4 4 J14 '21 '3_14 }9 ~1.{ '57 JI~~~?-= ;
••--I'2-
1
3r4 .29 314 46 315 · 4 -~rs ·~ 2:-3•s 4~ jt.5 's;-·.116 18 I
I3 3'5 29 .315 47 316 . s JI6 22 ~316 '41 317' 0 -~·7 '19. I
141316 29 J16 47 j31Y. 6. JI7 24 7117 '41 318. I !J•H 21 .
15 317 29 ~~7 ·47 318 6 3.H 24 ( jtS 4+ 319. 1 .1•9 21 I
-:6\ts 2-;318 4--;;;;-6--~-~9 ·2S · j;9.44. 320 4- 3:2o .,..4- ;
17 319 z,8 319 47 37.0 1 6 320 25 320 45 J21 · 4 321 25
xH · 31.0 ·27 j2o 46 -~2l · 6 ·1321 25 ·32t 45 ·1322 · 5 322 26.
19 J2I 27 321 46 J22 .· 6 ·J22 ·25 J22 ·45 323 6 J2J 27 !,
___,......;..__,...___.;..... . . - -----
20 ~22 26 322 45 J2J 5 3~3 ··25 J23 45 324 '6 324 27 I
2 I 323 25 323 44 324 . 4 J24 ~4 324 45 325- 6 325 27
22 324 z3 324 42 325 3 J2S ~4 :325 45 326. 6 326 27 .
23 325 _21 325 42 J2~ ' 1 J2.6 iz3 J26 r.t-4 327 '5 327 27
- - ·- - .,_..,..
24 326 20 326 40 327' I J27 21 j27 44 1328 4 328 26 .
25 327 IS 327 39 328 0 328 21 J28 41 J29 . 4 ~29 2S
26 J28 16 ~28 37 328 5s J29· 19 329 41 33o '1 330 24
27 329 14 ~29 35 329 s6 330 ;17 330 39 331 x ·331 24
--1r--- - - · ·- .....
28 aao 11 ~30 33 330 s+ J3l 15 331 37 j31 1
59 332 ~ ·
29" 331 9 331· ao ~31 SI 332 14 332 35 332 57 333 20
JO 332 .(j 332 ~?"'??2 49 333 I1 .3~3 34 333 55 334 _~_~"·
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 535
A TABLE of RIGHT AscENSIONs.-North Latitude.
o I 1
I
2 5 6
---;; d. ;.-j d. ;:- d. m=-d. m._I d. m.- d. m.- d. m-:
- i - - -
0 .
132 6 1
331 44 . 331 23 331 2 330 41 330 20 329 59
I 333 4 332 41 332 20 331 59 331 38 331 16 330 55
2 334 1 333 as 333 17 332 55. 332 34 332 12 331 st
'\ 3 334 sH 334 35 334 13 333 51 1
333 30 333 s 332 47
!~ 335 5~335 3;-;
335 1;;34 48 1334 26-1
334- ~i333 43
! 5 !336 5I 336 29 '336 7 335 44 335 22 !
335 0 \334 39
1 6 337 48 337 251337 3 336 40 336 1H 335 56 1
335 :34
7 338 44 338 22 337 59 337 36 337 14 336 52 ~36 30
- - I -. - . - -
8 339 40 339 J8 1
338 55 ,338 32 338 10 337 48 337 26
9 340 37 340 14 1
339 5I 339 28 339 6 j33~ 43 338 21
10 341 33 341 10 !340 47 340 24- 340 2 339 39 339 17
11 342 29 342 6 341 43 341 20 340 58 340 35 340 12
1--·-----1------1------1---·-
12 343 25 343 2 342 39 .342 16 341 53 341 30 341 7
r 3 34+ 20 343 58 343 35 343 12 342 49 342 25 342 2
14 345 16 344 53 344 30 344 7 343 44 343 20 342 57
15 3A6 12 345 48 345 25 345 2 344 39 344 IS 343 52
1--1---1--·-1------1--------t---1
16 347 7 346 44 346 21 345 57 345 34 345 10 344 47
17 348 3 347 40 347 17 346 52 346 29 346 5 ,345 42
18 348 s8 348 36 348 12 347 47 347 24 347 o 346 37
19 349 54 349 31 ~49 7 348 43 34~ 19 347 55 347 32
20 1
35o 4-;;35o 26350 2 3+9 38- 3+9 14- ~48 so- 348 27
21 1
3s 1 44 35 I 21 sso 57 350 33 350 9 3+9 +s ~49 22
22 352 39 352 16 35 I 52 351 28 351 4 350 40 350 17
23 353 35 353 11 352 47 352 23 351 59 351 35 351 12
11-----1----1----1
---1----1---1·---·
24 354 30 354 6 1353 42 353 18 852 54 352 30 352 7
25 sss 25 355 1 35+ 3H 135+ •4 353 so ~sJ 26 !353 2
.26 356 20 355 57 355 33 3s5 9 354 +5 354 21 lsss 57
27 357 IS 356 S2 356 28 356 + 355 4° 355 16 354 52
11
--28- ass 1-;;357 4-:; 357 1.3- ss6 s;-~56 35- 356 u 355 47
29 359 • 5 35H 42 358 18 ·357 54 57 JO 357 6 356 42
30 J60 0 359 37 359 13 358 49 358 25 358 1. 357 37
.No. 27. 6 P 3
r
Digitized by Coogle
53~ ~ N I L L U S T R ·A T I 0 N
A TABLE ofRIGHT AscENSioNs.-South Latitude.
. . 0 1 2 3 4 1 s 6
* d.--;:- d. m-: d. m-:--d. m. d. m. Id. m-: d. m.
11-- .,_. - -- -~ -
0 332 6 332 28 332 49 333 ti 333 33 313 55 334 18
1 333 4 333 25 333 47 334 9 334 31 :334 53 333 J6
2 334 1 334 22 334 44 335 6 335 29 1
335 51 336 14
3 33~ ss 335 19 335 41 336 '3 336 26 !336 49 337 12
--t-~....,-- - - - - -
4 335 55 336 16 336 39 337 1 -1
337 241337 47 338 JO
5 336 51 337 13 337 36 337 58 338 21 338 44 339 8
6 337 48 33~ 10 33S 33 33S 55 339 IS 339 41 ~40 5
7 338 44 339 7 339 ao 339 52 340 IS 340 38 341 2
•
---~ - - - - - - - t l
.8 339 40 340 4 340 27 340 49 341 12 341 35 341 59
9 340 37 341 o 341 23 341 46 342 9 342 32 342 56
10 341 33 341 s6 342 19 342 42 '343 6 343 29 ~43 53
u 342 29 342 52 343 15 343 as 1344 2 344 25 344 49
I2 343 25 343 48 343 li 344 34 r;;-;s345 21 345 45
13 344 20 344 44 345 7 345. ao 345 54 346 tS 346 42
14 345 16 345 40 3+6· 3 346 26 346 so 347 14 ~47 J8
I 5 1346 I 2 346 35 ~46 59 347 22 347 46 34S 10 34g 34
_........ - - -- - ----11
16 1
347 7 347 J1 347 55 348 18 348 42 349 6 349 30
.17 348 3 348 27 348 51 349 14 349 38 3.50 2 350 26
18 348 58 349 22 349 46 350 9 35° 33 350.57 351 21
.19 349' 54 350 I8 350 42 351 ,5 351 29 351 53 3.S2 17
----1 -- -
20 350 49 351 13 35I 37 352 l 352 25 352 49 353 .13
2I 35I 44 352 8 352 32 352 56 353 20 353 44 ~54 8
22 352 39 353 3 ~53 27 353 5I ~54 15 354 39 355 3
23 353 35 3.0 5~ H4 22 35+ 46 355 1o ,355 34 355 58
...,_ ----·
24 35+ 30 354- 53 ~ss 17 355 ·P 356 5 !356 29· ~56 . 53
25 35s 25 355 +8 356 I 2 as6 36 357 o 357 24 ~57 4H
26 356 20 356 43 357 7 357 31 357 ss ass 19 358 4
-
a
27 357 IS ~57 38 358 2 358 26 358 so 359 14 ~59 J8
-
2S ass 10 ~s8 33 3ss 57 359 21 359 45 36o · 9 36o 32 .
29 359 5 359 28 ~59 52 360 t6 360 40 ~61 4 J61 28·
~0 360 0 360 23 360 47 361 11 . 361 35 361 59 362 23
-
Digitized by Coogle
I
'
I
I
t
l
,
I
T A B L E S
S H ·E WI N G T H E
DECLINATIONS
0 F T H·E
P L A N· E T S.
Dig-itized by Coogle
•.
Digitized b~Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 .L 0 G Y. ·
ATABLE of DEC LIN ATIONs.-North Latitude.
o d.
0
m. Id.
1
m.
-1---:1---1---1----1----
2 3 4 5 6
d. m. d. m. d. m.· d. m. d. m. -
24 32 25 32 26 ~ 27 J2 28 32 29 32 30
24 Jl 25 31 26 31 27 Jl 28 31 29 31 29
24 31 25 31 26 31 27 31 28 3' 29 Jl 20
24 JO 25 JO 26 JO 27 30 28 JO 29 30 27
~~-;3-2-8-~--24-2;- 25 ~81-;6-;8T-;7_2_8_1_2_8_2SI 29 28 z61
5 23 2~ 24 26 25 26 26 26 27 26 28 26 29 26 25'
6; 23 23 24 23 25 23 26 23 27 22 28 22 29 22 24:
.2i 23 20 ~4 20 25 20 26 20 27 19 28 19 29 19 2J'
0 2J 32
1 23 31
2 23 31
3 23 30
--1---11---:.----- ---··-:
81 23 17 24 17 25 17 26 16 27 16 28 16 29 16 22'
9: 23 13 24 13 25 13 26 12 27 13 28 12 29 12 21:
IOl' 23 9 .24 9 25 9 26 9 27 8 28 8 29 8 201
11 23 4 24 4 25 4 26 4 27 3 28 3 29 3 191
I
-;;I 22 5-; 23 59 24 5;;~s 59 1-;6 59 27 ;8~8 58 1~
13' 2a 53 23 53 24 53 25 53 26 52 27 52 28 52 17
141 22 47 23 47 24 46 25 46 26 46 27 45 28 45 161
151 22. 41 23 41 24 40 25 40 26 40 27 39 28 39 151
- - - 1 - - - 1 - -
I
-1
J 6 22 34 23 34 .24 33 25 33 '26 33 27 32 2 8 J2 14
17 22 27 2J 27 24 26 25 26 26 25 27 25 28 24 13'
l.b 22 19 23 19 24 18 25 18 26 17 I 27 ~6 28 I6 12
~~ 22 ~~~-23_~~-2_4
__
9_,_:_s 9 26 s 27 7___2
__8_6_~
2Q 22 2 23 2 24 x 25 o 25 59 26 5s 27 57 10
21 ll 53 23 43 23 59 24 5l 25 sa 26 49 27 45 9
22. 21 43 22 43 23 42 24 41 25 40 26 39 27 3S 8
23 21 33 22 33 23 32 24.31 25 30 26 ~9 27 28 i
-1---'-__;,'-1-.__......----.......1---------1----'
24 21 23
25 :U 13
26 21 I
27 20 so
22 22 23 ~1 24 20 2 5 19 26 18 27 I 7 6!
22. 11 23 10 .34 9 25 8 26 7 27 6 s1
22 o 22 59 23 58 a4 57 25 s6 z6 ss 41
21.48 22 47 23 46 24 45 2.5 44 .26 43 :}
-·1---1---1---,1---------- 26 30 21
. 26 17 II·
26 4 0
6 nl
28 20-38
29 20 26
JO 20 13
j 0
21 36
21 23
21 12
l
22 35
22 22
22 10
2
23 34
23 21
23 9
3
6Q
24 33
24 20
24 7
4
25 32
25 19
25 6
s
Digitized by Coogle
540 A N I L L U S T R A T I . 0 N
· A TABLE of DEc~INATioNs·.-South Latitude.
0 I 2 . 3 4 5 6
2:3 d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
- - - - - 1-
0 23 32 22 32 21 32 20 ' 32 19 3~ 18 32 17 Jl so·
I 23 3I 22 31 21 31 · 20 31 19 Jl 18 31 17. 31 29
2 23 31 22 31 21 31 20 31 19 31 18 31 17 Jl 28
3 23 30 22 JO 21 30 20 30 19 53 18 30 17 30' 27 ,
--- - - - -
4 ' 23 28 22 28 21 28 20 28 19 28 18' 28 17 28 26
5 23 26 22 26 21 26 20 26 19 26 18 16 ~7 26 25
6 23 23 22 23 21 23 20 23 19 23 t8 23 ~7 23 24
7 23 20 22 20 21 20 20 20 '19 20 r8 20 17 20 23
- - - - -
8 23 17 22 17 21 I7 20 17 19 17 18 17 I '7 17 22
9 2J 13 ~2 13 21 IJ 20 13 19 13 18 13 .·17 13 21
10 23 9 22 9 21 9 20 9 19 9 18 9 ·17 10 20
11 2.,
.) 4 22 4 21 4 20 4 19 5 18 s 17 5 '9
- - - • - . -·
12 !U 59 21 59 20 59\ 19 S9 ' 19 0 18 0 17 0 t8
13 22 53 21 53 20 53 19 53 tH 54 17 54 16 54 17
j
18 +8 17 48 16 48 16
14 22 +7 21 47 20 47 : 19 47
15 22 41 21 41 20 41 1 19 41 18 42 17 42 16 42 '5
- - -- - -
16 22 34 21 35 20 35 ! 19 35 18 36 17 36 J6 36 14.
17 22 27 21 28 20 2~ 19 28 18 29 17 29 16 29 131
t8 22 19 21 20 20 20 19 21 18 21 17 21 16 21 121
19 22 ' 10 21 11 20 11 19 12 IS 13 17 IJ 16 13 ' 11 ,
r-- -- -- - -- ,-
20 22 2 21 3 '20 4 19 + 18 5 I7 5 16 s 10
21 21 53 20 54 19 55 18. s6 17 57 16 47 xs ss 9,
22 21 43 20 44 19 45 t8 46 17 47 16 37 IS 48 8:
23 21 33 2o 34 I 19 35 18 36 17 37 16 47 IS 3H 7
- - -· - - ~,
24 21 23 20 24 19 25 18 26 17 27 16 28 · 15 28 6·
25 21, J 2 20 I4 19 15 18 16 17 17 16 18 15 19 s
26 21 I 20 2 19 3 18 4 17 5 t6 7 15 8 +
t.7 20 so 19 51 18 52 17 53 16 54 15 s6 14 57 3
- --- - - - .
28 20 38 19 39 J8 40 17 41 16 42 IS# 14 45 2
29 2.0 26 19 27 18 28 17 29 16 30 15 32 14 33 1
JO 20 13 19 14 18 I 5 17 I 7 16 18 1S 19 14 20 0
0 1 2 3 4 s 6 ~ .
1
Digitized by Coogle
0 P A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
A TABLE of DECLINATiotrs.-North Latitude•
-
. · - -·.. ~ -· ~ ~ - ~ ~
0 l 2 3 4 5 6
n d. m. d. m. d. lll. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
- - - - - -
0 20 13 su ·~
22 10 23 9 24 7 2S 6 2(i 5 ao
I 20 0 ~0 59 :u 57 22 56 23 54 24 53 as .)! 29
2 19 47 20 45 21 44 22 42 23 40 24 39 2 5 37 28
3 19 33 2Q 31 ~I JO 22 28 23 2? 24 25 15; 23 27
- - - - --
4 19 19 ~0 17. 21 16 22 14 23 tl 24 11 25 ~9 a6
.~ 19 5 20 3 21 2 22 0 22 5s 23 s6 24 54 25
6 18 so 19 49 20 47 21 45 22 43 2J 41 24 39 24
7 18 35 19 34 20 32 21 29 22 27 2J 25 24 23 23
- - - - - -- --
8 18 20 19 t8 20 16 21 lJ 22 11 23 9 24 7 22
9 18 4 19 2 20 0 2o 57 21 55 22 53 23 51 21
10 17 48 18 46 19 44 20 4' 21 39 22 37 23 34 20
11 17 32 18 29 19 27 20 '5 2I 22 22 20 23 17 19
- - - - --
12 17 15 18 12 19 10 20 8 21 5 22 3 2,1 0 IS
13 t6 ss 11 55 11:{ S3 I9 51 20 48 ~ 21 46 22 43 17
14. 16. 41 17 as t8 J6 19 33 20 JO 21 28 22 25 16
15 16 2.f. 17 21 18 18 . 19 13 20 12 21 10 22 7 15
- - - -
-
16 16 0 17 3 18 0 18 57 19 54 20 52 21 49 14
17 iS 48 t6 45 17 42 18 39 19 J6 20 33 21 go IJ
r8 IS 29 16 26 17 23 18 20 19 17 20 14 21 11 12
19 IS 11 16 8 17 4 18 1 18 5~ 19 55 20 52 11
--
- -
20 14 52 15 49 16 45 17 42 ·~s 39 19 J6 20 33 10
21 14 33 IS JO 16 26 17 23 18 20 19 17 20 13 9
22 14 I4 IS II 16 7 17 4 18 0 t8 57 1 9 53 8
23 13 54 14 51 15 47 16 4-4 17 40 18 37 1 9 33 7
- -
- -
24 13 34 14 31 IS 27 16 42 17 20 1'8 17 19 I3 tJ
25 13 14' 14 II 15 7 16 4 17 0 17 57 t8 53 5
126 12 54 13 51 14 47 IS +3 16 39 I7 36 t8 33 4
~7 12 33 IJ JO 14 26 15 ~2 16 18 I7 IS 18 11 3
- -1-
-
28 12 I 3 I3 9 14 5 15 1 IS 57 t6 54 17 so 2
29 II 52 12 48 13 44 14 40 15 36 ·I6 33 17 29 1
JO 11 Jl 12 27 13 23 14 19 15 15 16 1l 17 7 0
0 I 2 3 4 5
. 6 ts
Digitized by Google
$4-~ A N I L L U S T R A T I' 0 ·· N
A TA:BLR of DECLINATioNs.-South Latitwde.
0 1 z 3 4 · I s 6
a d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. ~· d. m. d. m.
- - - - -I-
0 20 JJ 19 14 t8 16 17 17 16 18 15 20 14 21 JO
l 20 0 19 I r8 3 17 4 16 5 15 7 14 8 .a9
.2 19 47 IS 48 I7 so 16 51 IS 52 14 54 13 55 28
3 19 33 I z8 35 17 36 t6 38 15 39 I4 41 13 42 27
-- - -- - -
4 19 19 18 21 17 22 16 24 IS 26 I 14 27 13 29 26
5 19 5 18 7 17 8 16 10 IS 12 14 1,3 1J 15 25
6 t8 50 17 52 r6 54 ts s6 14 5s 13 59 13 1 24
7 J8 35 17 as 16 39 IS 4-1 14- 43 13 44 12 46 23
- -- - --
8 t8 20 17 22 I6 24 15 26 14 28 13 29 12 31 22
9 J8 4 17 6 J6 8 15 10 14 12 13 14 12 16 21
10 17 48 16 so 15 52 14 54 • 3 s6 12 ss 12 l 20
11 17 32 16 34- 15 36 14 as 13 40 12 42 1·1 45 19
-- .
---
12 17 15 16 17 IS 20 14 22 13 24 12 26 11 29 18
13 16 5s t6 0 IS 3 14- ~ IJ 8 19 10 lrl IJ 17
14 z6 41 IS 43 14 46 IS 4 12 .P 11 SJ •o s6 16
15 16 24 15 26 14 2~ 13 31 12 84 Il 36 10 39 15
- - -- -
16 16 6 15 8 14 li 13 14 12 17 1 I 19 10 22 14
17 15 48 14 so 13 53 12 s6 ll 59 ll l 10 4 lJ
~~ 15 29 14 32 13 35 . I2 as I I. •f.l 10 43 . .9 46 r:a
19 15 ll 14 14 I 3 17 12 zo 11 23 10 25 9 28. 11
- - - - - - ------ ...--
20 14 52 13 55 12 5s 12 1 II 4 10 7 9 10 10
21 14 33 13 36 12 39 ll 42 10 45 9 48 ~ Sl 9
22 14 14 13 Il I2 sao· 1I ~3 10 z6 9 39 8 32 8
ea 13 54 ~~ s 12 I
I J1 4 10 7 . 9 10 8 lJ 7
- -· - - - -r-
Z4 J3 34 12 -as u •P IO 44 9 48 8 51 1 54 6
~s 13 -
14 12 J8 Jl 21 10 24 9 ~8 8 Jl 7 35 s
~6 12 5+ u S9 11 I lO 4 9 8 8 u. 7 IS 4
~7 ~~ 33 H St> 10 39 9 48 '~ 47 7 so 6 54 3
- ...... - - -·- -~
28 ~~ J3 u 17 JO 20 9 ~4 · 8 a8 ..
' 3'
6 35 ~ -
B9 u S2 10 56 JO 0 9 4 s
' ~ u 6 ~5 t
30! J1
0
jJ to 35 9 39 8 4-8 7 +6 50 5 Sf 9
l 2 3 4 5 6 8
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S 1' R 0 L 0 -G Y. 54-3 .
A TABLE of DscLINA'TIONs.-North Latitode.
*" -· '" .
5 6
_I o _1.__
1·--1--2_,._ _
3 I 4
'~.J d. m. Id. m. d. m. d. m-:-1 d. m= d. IIi_:_ ·d. m=
I 3 23 14 19
1 3 1 1 3 57
12 41 r3 36
IS 15
14 53
14 32
14 10
17 7
16 45
16 24
16 2
12 19 13 14
--- ------~._~--~----~-----~------1------
0 11 31 12 27
1 11 9 12 5
2 10 48 II 45
3 10 26 I I 23
10 5 11I . I J I 57 13 -48
13 26
13 4
12 42
14 44 .
14 22
14 0
IJ 37
15 40
15 t8
14 55
14 33
12 5~
12 30
12 8
II 46
14 IO
1 3 47
•3 .24
13 0 .
9 43 IO 39 11 35
9 21· I 10· J 7 11 13 .
8 5s 9 55 _10 5 , 1
---t------·1----~~----·:------·~·----··------~------·
8
9
10
I1
8 36 9 32
8 J3 9 IO
7 5I 8 47
II 23
11 1
10 38
IO 14
12 19
u 56
JI 33
11' 9
13 14
12 52
12 29
12 5
10 28
9 6
9 42
9 J8
-----------1-------:---1---
7 28 8 23
7 5
6 42 .
9 51
. 9 28
10 .f6 I1 42
10 23 . II 19
10 0 10 36
9 37 10 33
12 37
12 14
11 51
ll 28
12
13
14
IS
6 19
s. s6
8 0
7 37
7 14
6 52
8 5'5
8 32
8 9
7 47
9 5
8 -1:2
-;(;-;-;;-•-6-2-;;l-7
-2:;·-s-
--1-;1-9
-~-
4-j~-~o-~-;~-~~--;-
17 5 9 6 s 7 0 7 55 8 .
so 9 46 10 41
I g· 4 46 S 42 6 37 7 32 8 2 7 9 22 I 0 I 7
19 4 22 5 18 6 1 3 7 s .8 3 s s8 9 53
- ----t-·--1----i-----1---.J----1---1
8 34
8 ]0
2 3 2 47
4 54
4 30
4 7
3 43
5 49
5 25
5 . 2
4 38
20 3 5s
21 3 35
22 3
_ 11 I
-- !--·
-·---
24 2 24
'25 2 0
3 19
2 55
2 Jl
2 7
4 14
3 so
3 26
3 2
6 44 ·
6 20
5 57
5 33
5 9
4 45
4 21
3 57
7 39
7 1 5
6 2
6 28
6 :;I
5 S0
5 10
4 52
7 47.
7 2 3
6.59
6 35.
<> 11
5 47 .
26 I 36
27 1 12
-~--------t---1-·--·------
0 48
0 24
0 0
· No. 27.
1 43
I 19
0 55
2 3s
2 14
1 -~0 .
3 33
3 9
2 45
6R
5 23
4 59
4 35
7 54
7 3°
7 6
6 42
6 t8
. 5 54
5 go
1
Digitize~ by Coogle
,.
~
544 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
.-
-til.
-0
I
2
'3
- 4
5
6
7
-8
9
10
11
-12
13
14
IS
-16
17
t8
19
-20
21
22
23
-24
25
26
27
-28
29
JO
'
.. .
A TABLE of DE<:LINATIONs.-South Latitude.
0 I
_I 2 3 I 4 5 I 6
- d. m.j·a. m.
d. m.. d. mj d. m. d. m. d. m.
- - -
6 ;;-I
Il 31 JO 35 9 89 8 43 7 46 5 54
It 9 IO 14 9 18 8 22 7 25 6 29 5 33
IO 48 9 53 8 57 8 ·1 7 4 6 8 5 12
10 26 9 J!l 8 35 739 6 43 5 47 4 5I
- - -- - -·
8 14. 7 18 6 22 5 26
10 5 9 9 4 3°
9 43 8 47 7 52 6 ·56 6 0 5 4 4 8
8 25 7 JO 6 34 5 38 3 46 '
9 21 . 4 42
8 5s 8 :3 7 y 6 11 5 15 4 19 3 23
- - .
8 36 7 4°. 6 44 5 49 4 53 3 51 3 l
8 13 7 17 6 21 5 26 4 30 3 34 2 39
7 51 . .6 55 5 59 5 4 4 8 3 12 2 17
7 28 6 32 537 4 41 3 46 2 so I 55
- - - - - ·-
7 5 6 9 5 14 4 18 3 23 2 27 J 3Z
6 42 5 46 4 51 3 55 3 0 2 4 1 9
6 19 5 23 4 28 3 32 2 37 1 41 0 46
5 s6 5 I 4 6 3 10 2 IS t 19 0 24
~
-- - --
5 33 4 38 3 41 2 57 1 52 o 56 0 0
5 9 4 I-4 3 19 2 24 1 29 0 33 0 24
4 46 3 5 1 .z 56 . 2 I 1 s 0 10 0 47
4 22 J-27 2 32 I 37 . 0 41 0 14- I 9
-- - - . -
3 s8 3 8 2 8 1 13 0 18 0 38 1 33
3 35 2 29 I 44 0 49 0 6 I .2 1 57
3 11 2 J6 1 21 0 26 0 29 I 25 2 20
2 47 ' 1 52 0 57 0 2 0 53 I 48 2 43
- - __,__
-
2 24 I 28 . 0 33 0 22 I 17 2 12 3 7
2 0 1 5 0 9 0 46 I 4-1 2 36 3 31
I 36 0 41 0 15 I 10 2 5 3 0 3 55
I I 2 0 17 0 39 I 34 2 29 3 24 + 19
-- - -- -
I -
0 48 0 7 J 3 1 57 2 52 3 47 4 42
0 24 0 jl l 27 2 21 3 16 4 lJ 5 6
0 0 o .H 1 so 2 45 3 40 4 35 It ,:;S ~0
-
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 54S
A TABLE of DECLINATIONs.-North Latitude.
-- ·--·
0 1 2 3 1 4 5 '6
d.m:~, d. -
~ d. m. d. m. d. m. m. d. m. d. m.
- - -
0 0 0 .0 55 1 so :1. 45 3 4° 4 35 5 3°
I 0 24 0 31 1 27 .2 21 3 I6 411 5 6
2 0 48 0 7 1 3 1 57 2 52 3 47 4 42
3 I 12 0 1 0 39 1· 34 . 2 29 8 24 4 19
- I
-
4 I 36 0 41 0 15 1 10 2 5 3 0 3 55
.~ 2 0 I 5 0 9 0 46 1 4I 2 36 3 31'
6 2 24 1 29 0 34 0 22 1 17 2 12 3 7
7 2 47 1 52 0 57 0 2 0 53 I 48 2 43 ·
- - -
. 8 3 1I 2 16 1 21 0 26 0 29 1 25 2 20 .
9 3 35 2 30 1 44 0 49 0 6 1 2 I 57
10 3 sB 3 3 2 B 1 13 0 18 o 38 1 33
11 4 2.2 3 27 2 32 I 37 0 41 0 14 1 9•
~
- - - - -
12 4 46 3 51 2 55 2 0 1 4 0 9 0 46
13 5 9 - 4 14 3 19 2 .24 I zB 0 32 0.:.23
14 5 33 4 as 3 43 2 47 2 52 o 56 0 0
15 5 56 5 I 4 6 3 10 2 15 I 19 . 0 24
- - - - -- -
16 6 19 5 24 4 29 3 33 2 3s 1 42 0 47
!~
6 42 5 46 4 51 3 55 3 0 2 4 I 9
~ 2~
6 9 5 14 4 I8 3 23 2 27 I 32
19 6 32 5 37 4 41 3 46 2 so I 55
- - - - - -
2.0 7 51 6 56 6 0 5 5 4 9 3 I3 2 18
21 8. I J 7 I 8 6 22 5 27 4 3I 3 3~ 2 40
22 8J6 7 41 6 45 5 5° 4 54 3 5 3 2
23 s 58 8 3 7 7 6 12 5 16 4 20 a24
- - - --- -
24 9 21 8 25 7 30 6 34 5 38 5 42 3 46
25 9 43 .8 47 7 52 6 56 6 0 5 4 4 8
26 10 5 9 9 8 14 7 18 6 22 5 26 4 3°
27 1o 26 9 31 8 36 7 40 6 43 5 47 4 51
.- - - - - -
z8 10 48 9 53 8 57 8 I 7 4 6 8 5 12
29 11 9 10 14 9 18 8 22 7 25 6 29 5 33
30 11 Jl 10 35 9 39 8 4~ 7 46 6 so 5 5.
r
Digitized by Coogle
M~- J:. N I L L U S-T-. R A T I·O N
A TABLE of DECLIN ATtoNs.~South Latitude. ·
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
- - - - - .....
,.0. d. m. d. m. d. m.. d• .m. d. m. d. m. d: m. -
- - - ---
0 0 0 0 55 I 50 2 45 3 40 4 35 5 30
1 l 0 24 , I 19 2 14 3 9 4 4 4 59 5 54
0 48 ' .
2 3~ 4 28 6 18 '
2 t I 43 3 33 5 23
3 I
1·12 2 7 3 .2: 3 57 · 4 52 5 47 6 4'2 .
- - - _,.. -
4 1 36 / 2 31 3 !26 : 4 21 ·5 ·•6 6 ll 7 6 :
s 2 0 2 55 3 so . 4 45 5 4° 6 35 7 30 ;
6 2 24 3 J9 _
4 14 5 9 6 4 '6 59 7 54 )
7 2 47 3 42 4 37 s 32 6 27 7 .2 8 17 .
- -- - - -
.8 3 11 . 4 6 5 I s·s6 · 6 Jl . 7 -46 8 41 .
9 · 3 35 4· 29 5 24 6 :19 7 15 ~ - 10 9 S :
ld .
3 s8 I 4 53 5 ..,.s . 6 43 7 39 8 34 ' 9·29 l
11 ~ 4 22 5 J7. 6 12 77 8 3 8 5s 9 53
- - - -
12 4 46 5 41 6 36 7 31 . 8 26 9 21 10 16
13 5 9 6 5 7 0 7 55 8 so 9 '45 . 10 40
14 5 33 6 29 7 24 8 19 . 9 14 10 9 11 4
IS s s6 6 52 7 47 8 42 9 37 10 33 J 1 28
. •·
-- - - -
16 6 19 7 14 8 9 9 5 10 9 10 56 II 51
17 6 41 7 37 8 32 9 28 10 23 11 19 12 14 .
IH 7 5 8 0 8 55 9 51 10 46 ll 42 12 37 .
19 7 2~ 8 23 9 18 10 14 Il 9 12 5 13 0
-- - - -- - ......._.
20 7 51 8 47 9 42 10 37 1I 32 12 28 13 23
21 8 13 9 g 10 5 11 0 11 55 12 51 13 46
I
2'2 8 36 9 32 I10 28 11 23 12 19 13 14 '4 10
23 s 5s 9 54 10 so 11 46 1 12 42 13 37 14 33
-- - - -
·"
24 .9 21 . 10 17 II 12 12 8 .13 4 14 0 14 55
25 ·9 43 JO 39 11 35 12 30 13 26 14 22 IS 1H
26 10 5 11 I l1 57 12 52 13 48 1 4 -44 15 40
27 10 26 II 23 12 19 lJ 1.1- 14 10 15 6 16 2
- · - - - - ·~
28 10 48 l1 45 12 41 13 36 . 14 32 J5' ~8 16 2·4
29 11 9 12 6 13 2 13 ss 14 54 15 so .16 -+6
~0 11 31 12 27 _
13_ 23 14 19 IS \15. 16 11 17 .7~~
oigitize.Q by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 L Q Q Y. : 5+7 -
A TA:.aLE of D&CLINATioNs.-North Latitude.
4 1 5 ___
6-
--1---1---1---1~-
3
0 1
"1. d. m. d. m. d. m. . d~ m. 4~ -m. ~- d·. m. d. m. ~
- - -1---1---1 ·- - -1---·11
0 11 ,31 10 35
1 II ·52 IO 56
9 :39
10 0
8 43 l 7 46 . 6 so 5 54
6 rs
9 4 8 7 7 II
6 35
6 55
2 12 13 . II I7 . JO -20
• 10 -4·0
9 24 8 2~ 7 31
. ,3 12 33 , ; I I 37 9 44 8 .48 7 51
-""!'--- - -~-
--
..
-.-.
..~
. -
.·!--·---1
·-· . . . . ----- -
-
·-
. .4 12 54 11 ,58 . . I 1 I . ; 10 ·4 . . 9 . 8
5 I 3 i4 12 J 8 , I I 2 I . IO 24 - 9 ,28
-6 13.34 12 -38 11 41 10 44 9 48 .
7 I I 3 .54 12 58 I 2 I II 4 i 1 0 7
11--_-
_-_ -·-
_
_
-_-_·1-.---
.. -· ·-·-
·-
·"· ---·--
8 14 . 14 I 13 I7 . I 2 20 li 23 . 10 2fj
8 11
8 JI
8 SI
9 10
7 IS
7 35
7 54
8 13
- - -.
-.1-
..-
... ------
8 29 . . 8 32
9 48 . 8 .51
10 7 9 10
10 25 .9 .28
9 14 33 . 13 36 12 39 ; 11 4_2 .10 45
IO 14-52.
1
_1355 1258 12 1 JI 4
I 1 I 15 I I 14 I 4 I 3 17 I 2 20 11 23
~-~-2-. ~s 29 14 ~J.;-r~3-_a5 ; --I~- 38. 1 I 41 ro 43 9 +6
- -· -1-----1
.l3 I I 5 4-8 .. 14 SO l 13 .SJ 12 S6 11 59 111 .
1 10 4
.14, 16 6 . 15 B. 1411 IJ14 . 1217.11 I9 I022 I
IS _}_6 24 1 15 2~ 14 _
2.9 _
-_•3_J_I_,__
I2_3_4~J-":""t-:-I
.-
- J-6-J--1·o
__3_9~
16 16 41 15 43 14 46 13 48 12 51 u s3 .Io 56
17 1658 : I6 . o 15 3 _14 .5 13-8 I21o .. It ·1J
IS 17 15 16 17 IS 20 -14 ~ -I3 _
24 12 .2P 11 29
.19 17J2 16]4 1536 I438 1340 1242 1145 !
11--_- -·--1-.-.--~·--
-- -----1.....--
20 17 48 I6 SO 15 52 14 54 IJ 56
21 18 4 I 7 6 I 6 8 15 _
1 0 l.j. I 2
22 18 20 _17 (2!2 ..I6 24 _
15 ,?-{> ' 14 2~
. ~[j: 18 3_
5 ~I7 87 16 '39 ..1 ~ 41 l.f. 43
24 ~~- ·so f~-7 s2 -:i6 57~1s ./6--;4 ss
-·--·-...___
__---1
12 5s 12 1
13 If ,12 16
13 29 12 31
1J .44 12 4~
-- .. .. _
_
, t
I
j
~13 5-9 .
_14 ._I 3
_
1.1- 27
.14 4:1
-13 1
,I 3 l 5
13 .29
'3 ·4,2
1.5 ' I 9 5 I 18 . :7 I 7 ' 8 16 10 I 5 12
26 19 19 \ 18 21 17 23 16 2.~ 15 26
, 27 ; 19 :3:3 _ .~183_5 .I7 .Jl6 .,16J8 ;l~J?
~- ·2s :19- 47-ri·s-~~s -=-;7 ;;;· ·-~-6 ·5=:~~s--s2 _1_+
___5.4..
-
- ~-3-
-s--s-1:
2 9 . 20 0 .I 19 I , 18 ,,'J I 7 4 I 6 5 15 7 I 4 . 8
10 20 1J I 19 14- ' 18 I6 . 17 __
1_7 16 !8 15 2.0 ·
14 21 •
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·
No. 2~7. --- ~ . . .. . -- . . ~ . 6 S .. - .. 2 ---
Digitized byGoogle
s+8 A N · 'I L L ·u S T ·rR A .T 1 0 N
A-T . . f D. A S~ th L .tude
·AB_!.! o E'CLIN~TI~N •'+ u att ... '"
-.~ -
6
0 1 2 3 4 5
--
1tl d. m. d. m. d. m. d. ~· ld, ·m. d. m. d. m.
.
:o 11 31 . 12 27 13 .z3 . 14 19 15 15 16 '1·1 : ' 17 7
I ll 52 12 48 13 44 14 40 . ~ IS 36 16 33 . 17 Z9
2 12 13 IJ 9 I4 5 15 1 • 15 57 . 16 54 1~ so
3 1~ 33 13 20 14 -25 15 21 ' . 16 .18 . 17 14' I 10
1--- -- I· .
4 12 S4 I8 s6 14 '46 ~ IS 42 ; 16 39 I . 17 35 18 31
.s 1-3 14 14 I I . 15 7 16 . J Iv ·o 17 ;s6 18 .52
6 18 34 14 31 IS 27 I6 24 ' 17 so J8 17 19 J3
- 7 13 54 14 51 15 47 16 44 17 40 I8 37 19 33
..
- · ..co.
· ·- -·
,g 14 14 I 5 ·l I 16 '. 7 I7 ' 4 18 ·o !18 57 19 53
: '9 I~ '33 IS 30 16 '26 17 23 t8 20 • . I9 ' 17 20 ·13
10 ' I4 52 IS 49 t6 45 . 17 42 t8 39' 19'36 20 33
11 ..15 1 I . ·I6 8 17 4 18 1 18 sH 19 55 20 52
1--:-
·f2 . IS 29 16 26 . 17 '28 . l 8 20 · I9 .17 l 20 I 4 21 t'l
13 "15 48 ·t6 45 17 .f-2 ·. :18 39' ' 19 J6 20 33 21 3o
.J4 I I6 6 .17 3 18 Q IS 57 1
'19 54 . :20 52 21 49
15 16 24 '17 2l : t8 18 19 ~"5 · '2o 12 2110 22 7
t6 16 41 17 ss t8 36 19 .33 20 30 21 .28 22 ~5
17 :16 58 11 55 '18 ;
53 19 51 . '20 _
+8 21 46 22 43
•.J'8 ~17 15 18 12 19 10 20 8 21 J '22 3 23 ·o
19 17 3:~ 18 29 . I 9 'J7 . 20 25 21 23 22 20 23 17
-·
--
20 - ~~ 48 18 46 1~ 44 20 41 21 39 22 37 28 34
2'1 l 4 19 2 2~ 0 20 57 . 2J 55 22 53 28 51
22 18 ~0 19 18 20 '16 '21 I 3 2% 1J 23 ,9 24 7
1$ 35 ·2o 3~ '
~3 19 34 '21 Z9 22 27 23 25 2+ 23
.
24 IS so 19 49 2e 47 21 45 ' 2Z 43 '23 41 2_
4 ..19
25 19 5 ' 2~ 3 ' 21 2 22 0 22 5s za 56 24 :S4
26 19 19 '20 17 21 16 22 14 23 12 24 li 25 .9
27 I9 'j3 20 31 "21 30 ~ 2Z 28. 23 26 24 25 25_ ~23
..
. .
28 , 19 47 20 45 21 44 '.22 42 23 40 _
24 .39 ' 25 '37
29 ·20 0 '20 59 21 47 ·22 56 23 54 24 5.~-
~
n jQ .2() 13 '21 1_
2. 3_2 10 23 '9 : 24 7 2 _~
Digiti .ed Coogle
. .
o.F AS T R 0 L O ·G Y.• 549
A TABLE of DECLINATI<>)Js.-North Letltude.
·-
0 I 2 3 4 5 I 6
..
- - -
...t d. m•. d. m. d. m. . d. m. · d. m. d. m. -~ d. m.
- - - ·-----
0 ~0 lJ 19 14 18 16 17 17 16 18 15 20 . 14 21
I 20 26 19 27 18 28 17 29 16 "30 IS 32 14 33
•
. 2 20 38 19 89 18 40 17 41 16 42: 1 5 44 14 45
3 20 so 19 sr 18 52 I7 58 16 54 IS· 55 14 57
- - - - -
4 21 1 20 2 . 19 3 t8 4 . 17 " 5 t6 7 15 8
5 . 2 x· 13. 20 IJ 19 IS 18 16 17 17 16 18 15 19 I
6 21 23 20 24 19 25 18 26 17 27 16 28 IS 28
7 21 33 20 34 19 35 18 36 17 37 16 38 ts ·as
- ·
-· - -- '
' :8 21 43 20 44" 19 45 18 46 1.7 .47 16 47 IS 48
: 9 - 21 53 . 20 54 19 55 x8 s6 17 s6 16 57 IS ss :
10 22 2 21 3 20 4 19 5 18 5 17 . 6 16 6
11 22 10 21 li 20 12 19 13 IS 13 17 14 16 14
-- - ~- -
12 22 19 21 19 20 20 19 21 t8 21 17 22- 16 i2
13 22 27 21 28 20 28 19 28 18 29 17 29 16 29
. 14 22 34 21 35 20 35 19 35 J8 36 17 36 . J6 $6
15 ·22 41 21 41 20 41 19 41 18 42 17 42 16 42
- -.. - -
16 22 +7 21 47 %O 47 19 47 18 48 17 -t8 .16 48
17 22 53 21 53 20 53 19 53 18 54 17 ' 54 16 54
t8 22 59 21 59 20 59 19 59 19 0 d~ 0 17 0
19 2"'
.) 4 22 4 21 4 20 4 19 5 18 5 17• 5
- - - . - ·-!
20 23 9 22 9 21 9 20 9 19 10 18 10 17, JO
21 23 13 Z2 13 21 IJ 20 13 . 19 14 18 14 . 17 14
22 2"J 17 22 17 21 17 20 17 19 17 J8 '7 I7 17
23 "23 20 22 20 21 20 ·20 20 19 20 18 20 17 2-0.
- ....... - - - -
%4 23 ~3 22 23 21 23 . 20 23 . 19 23 J8 23 17 2J
25 . 23 .® 222-6 21 26 20 z6 19 26 18 z6 17 -26
~6 23 2-8 22 ,g 21 28 20 ~8 19 z8 18 28 l7 28
27 23 ao . 22 30 21 30 20 "30- ·19 JO t8 30 ti "
30 .
- - ·- -
.28 . 23 Jl 22 31 21 31 20 31 19 31 ·. 18 31 17 JI
.29 · 23 31 22 31 21 JI 20 ji 19 Jl t8 31 17 3l
~0 2~ ~2 22 82 21 _3.2 20 12 19 32 J8 .32 17 32
Digitized by Coogle
550 AN ILL U S T R .AT I 0 N
/i TABLE of,DECLINATioNs.-South Latitude•. .
I 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
--- .......-
.t d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m •. d. m. d. m.
- -
'
0 . 20 lJ 21 12 22 10 23· 9 24 7 25 6 26 4
1 20 26 21 25 22 23 23; 22 24 20 25 19- 26 17
2 20 3s 21.37 22 36 23: 35 24 33 25· J2 26 JO
3. I 2o so _21 49 22 48 23 47 24 45 25 44 26 43
---- - 23 58 I24 57 I-;;-;~
4 21 I 22 0 22 59 26· 55
5 21 13, 22 ll 23 10 24 9 25 8 26 7 . 2]' 6
61 21 2J, 22 22 23 21 24·20 25 19 26 t8 27 17
7 21 33 22 32 2J J1 24 3~1....:5 30 26 29. -27 z8
--· -
I
8 21 43 22 42 23 41 24 41 2S 40 26 39 27 38
9 21 53 . 22 52 2J 5' 24 51 25 so 26 49 27 4H
10 22 2 2J I 24 0 25 0 zs 59 !26 5s 27 57
11 22 IO 23 IO : 24 9 25 9- 26 8 27 7 28 ·6
- - -.- -
24 :&.8
I
26 17 27 16
I 2 22 _19 I23 19 25 18 28 '5
iJ !· 22 27 23 27 24 26 25 26 26 25 27 24 28 24
14 I 22 3+ 23 34 24 33 25 33 26 32 27 Jl zH 3'
IS ! 22 41 23 41 24 40 25 39 26 39 27 J8 28 J8
--~--- - '
-
-
16 22 47 23 47 24- 46 25 45 26 45 27 45 28 44
: l7 22 53 23 53 . 24 53 25 52 26 52 27 52 28 5I
i~
22 59 J23 59 24 59 25 ss z6 s8 27 s8 28 57
19· 23 4 24 4 25 4 26 3 27 3 2~ 3 29 2
-- - - ---
20 23 9 . 24 9 25 9 26 8 27 8 28 8 29 7
I
25 26 13 27 J3 28
21 23 13 24 lJ 13 I2 29 12
2'2 23 17 24 17 25 17 26 .17 27 16 z8 16 29. I.6
23 23 20 24 20 _25 20 26 20 27 ~9 z8 19 29 1-9
- - - -
- -
24 23 23 24 23 - 25 23 26 23 27 22 28 22 29 -22
25 23 26 24 26 '25 26 . 26 2.6 27 25 . 28 25 29 25
26 23 2.8 24 2H 25 28 26 28 27 28 28 28 29 2!)
27 23 jO 24 JO 25 JO 26 3? 27 3.0 2~ 30 · 29 JO
-- - - -~
- -
28 23 31 24 JI 2 5 3! 26 31 27 •Jl 28 -31 29 31
29 23 31 24 31 25 31 26 31 27 31 28 '31 29 Jl
~0 23 32 24 32 I 25 32 26 32 27 J2 28 32 29 32
Digitized by Coogle
T A B L E S
.SHEWING TH&
ASCENSIONAL DIFFEREN·CE·s
D F T H E
P L .A N · E T- S•
•
. No. t'S.. 6T 3
Digitized by Coogle
,- .,
.·.
:.
-.
... 'l
)
DigitizedbyG ogle
: 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 -G .. Y. ·' -
553 '
, A TA111.E of AscEN'SIONAL DIFFERENCES to 6o Degrees of Latitude.
I ~'m.l ~'m.2 ~\ ~\ ~\ ~\ ~\ ~ :...8 ~·.._9, ~··;il
2 () , 2 0 4 0 6 0 8 0 10 0 13 0 I 5 0 17 0 19 0 211
3 o 3 o 6 o 9 o· -13 o 16 o 19 o 22 o 25 o 29 o 32
4 0 -~ 0 8 0 13 0 17 0 21 0 25 ' 0 so 0 34 0 3d 0 42
z. ~ .~ ~ ~; ~ ;~ ~ ~; ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ !~ ~ ;~ ~ 1~ ~ 5~:
7 0 0 15 0 22 0 30 0 37 0 44 0 52 0 59 1 7 l 14 ;
:> b () 8 0 17 0 25 0 3.1 0 42 0 51 0 59 I 8 I 16 1 25
9 0 9 .0 . 1<) 0 29 0 38 0 48 I 51
7 1 7 1 t6 I 26 1 36
- 10 0 I J 0 21 0 32 0 42 0 51 I·. '4 I 14 1 25 1 36 1 _ 47
- 11 0 1 '2 0 23 O· 3.' 0 47 0 58 I · 10 I 22 l 34 I 46 I 5!;1
I 2 o 1 3 o 2 5 o 3s o 51 1 4 1 17 1 30 1 43 1 56 2 9
~ 13 0 I~ 0 28 0 42 0 s6 I 9 I 23 I 37 i 52 2 6 2 20
14 0 15 0 30 0 4-3 I 0 J IS I 30 I 45 I 1 2 J6 231
-~ :S 0 16' 0 32 0 4b I 4 ·I 21 I 'J7 I 53 2 I 0 2 26 2 42
- I(: 0 I7\ 0 34 0 52 1 9 I 26 1 44 2 J 2 19 2 36 2 54
t j o I8l o 37 o 55 1 14 1 32 1 so 2 9 2 2ts 2 47 3 5
..J I ·: 0 19. 0 3:1 0 591 ~ 18 1 38 I S1 2 17 ·2 37 2 57 3 1 7
:.; 1 1
) 0 211' 0 41 l ' 2 1 23 ] 44 2 4 2 25 2 46 3 8 3 291
20 0 22 0 44- I 6 J 27 1 49 2 I 2 2 34 2 56 3 I 8 3 411
-~ 2i 0 23i 0 46 1 9 I 32 1 55 2 I9 2 41 3 6 3 29 .3 53
22 0 24' 0 49 I I 3 l 37 2 2 2 26 2 50 3 I 5 3 40 4 5
0 23 0 251 0 51 I 17 I 42 2 8 2 33 2 59 3 25 3 ·51 4 18
24 ·.o 2 71 o 53 1 20 I 47 2 r4 2 41 3 o .3 35 4 3 4 3o
25 0 28 0 s6 I 24 I S2 2 2o 2 49 3 17 3 45 4 14 4 43
·o 26 o 29 o 59 1 28 1 s7 2 27 2 s6 3 26 3 56 4 26 4 56
27 0 31 I 1 1 32 2 3 2 33 3 4 3 35 4 6~4 38 5 9
28 0 32 I 4 1 36 2 . 8 2 40 3 I 2 3 _
4-5 4 17 4 50 5 23'
'/') 29 0 33 1 7 1 40 2 . 13 2 47 3 20 3 54 4 28 5 2; s 37
~ 30 0 35 1 9 1 44 2 I9 2 54 3 29 4 4, 4 39 5 IS! 5 51
. 31 0 36 I 12 148 2 24 3 1 3 37 4 I414 51 5 2816 5
~ 32 0 37 I I 5 I 53 2. 30 3 8 3 46 4 24 5 2 5 41 6 20
0::: 33 0 39 I I8 I 57 2 36 .3 15 3 55 4 34~ 5 14 5 541 6 35
· J4 0 40 I 21 2 2 2 42 3 23 4 4 4 45, 5 26 6 !; 6 50
Q 3S 0 42 1 24 2 6 2 48 3 3I 4- I 3 , ·4 561
S 39 6 22 7 ,6
36 9 44 I 27 2 I 1 ·2 55 3 39 4 23 5 7 5 52 6 36 7 22
~ 37 o 45 1 30 2 I6 3 2 3 47 4 33 5 18 6 5 6 51 7 3H
38 10 47 I 34 2 ~ l 3 8 3 55 4 43 5 3° 6 I 8 7 6 7 55
Q 39 ' 0 49 1 37 2 26 3 15 4 4 + 53 s 42 6 32 7 22 8 lJ
40 0 50 I 41 2 31 3 22 4 13 5 4 5 55 6 46 7 38 8 31
41:0 52 . 1 44 ' 2 37 3 29 4 22 5 IS 6 8 7 I 7 55 8 49
42 , 0 54 1 I 48 2 42 3 37 4 3I .5 26 6 21 7 16 8 12 9 8
43 : o 56 1I 52 2. 48 -3 44 ·4 41 s 38 6 34 7 3~ 8 3o 9 281
44 : o ss · 1 s6 2 s+ ·3 52 4 st 5 so 6 49 .7 4-8 8 4-8 9 4s
45 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 . I 5 1 6 2 7 3 8 5 9 7 10 9~
Digitized by Coogle
5S4- ·A N ·I ·:L L U S T ·R. A T I 0 'N
A TABLE of Asc·ENSioN AL· Du'FERENCES,. &e.
I I J . 4 ~ 6 . 7 8 . 9 10
d. m. d. m. d. an. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. .d. m~ .; cl•• m. d. m.
46 I 2 2 4 . 3 7 4 9 5 12 6 15 7 1 H.. 8" 92 ; 9 2Y 0 Jl
· 47 I 4 2 9 3 J 3 4 .I 8 5. 23 6 28 7 34 .8 4'0 9 47 t 0 54
4H I 7 2 13 3 20 4-. 27 5 35 6 42 ,·7_50 8 5910 bu 1b
•
1
49i 1 9 2 19 3 27 4 37 5 47 6 .57 ~ ·-; 9 1•9 I 0 JC 11 •f2
5° I 12 22~ 335 447·559 7 · 1·1 · ~~2; 9. 3i 1 ~58J2 8
Z 51 !· I 14 2 28 3 43 4 .57 6 12 7_
'·Z"J ,8 4•310 · 0 II Ij' il 3 ~
·52. 17 2 34 3 51 s s ·6 26 ·7 4'4 ~9 ·a1L> 2211 42( 3 3
o 53 .1 2o 2 39 3- 59 5 I<J 6 .4c ·8 ·t 9 23 ro 4 5 12 ·.x,ra 3z
_54 123 245 4 8· 5 .31 6·55 8 :19 9 4~11 ca 3514 3
SS 126 2 52 418, S44 7 · 11 8 3810 611 3_~13 4.1435
t- s6 1. 29 2 5H 4 27 5·57 7;27 8 5~10 291 2 -2,3 35\15 s·
57 I321 ·3 5·4 3~16•11 7 44 9 .1910 54 12 3°1.~ 715 45
<( j8 I 36: 3 12 4.49: 6:26 8 2 9 4=~ II .20 IJ 014 41 ,16 2,
z 59 I 40 3 2 0 5 6 6 :4 1 , ·8 ; 2 2 1 0 4 II ..f8i ~3 32 I 5 IJ I 7 · 4
6o 1 44\ 3 28 5 21 6 57!
' ·8 43 to 29!12 17 14 515 55 17 47
- 6r I 48i 3 37 5 2S 7\15 9 510 s6·I2 48 14 4S1° 3bi8 33
62 I 53 J :4b 5 39 7 33 9 2H 1124 13 2l 15 2017 201 9 22
,_; C.3 I 5813 · 56 5:54 7 :53 9 53 II 5413 57 16 I 1 ~ 720 15
(.) 64 2 :
314 6 6:10 ~ 1510 2012 2714 3516 4518 5721 12
15 2 9 4 · 18 6 27 8 3710·4913 215 16•7 3219 51t2 13
~ /)6 ·2 r 5 4 3o 6 46 9 211201 3 a9 r9 118 2 4 zo 5c2 3 20
'7 2 21 433 7 6 9 2911 .H 14 2016 49,19. 2 ~ 21 5524 33
068 2 . 29 4- 57 7 2? <; SHt2 3or 5 s.r7 4 220 2123 S2S 53
-69 2 3-6 5 · 13 7 5110 3013 10•15 5318 3<)21 2C242327 21
_ ;.o 2 45 s 3o s 1711 s13 ss!•6 4719 t1322 4325 4~28 59
o 71 2 54 s 49 8 45 u 43 '4 43·17 4620 53 24 s27 13~o 48
72 3 5 6 10 9 -•7 i2 2615 3718 52~2 12 25 J829 10J2 32
-r. 73 3 t6 6 34 9 5213 1316 38 20 623 L1} 27 2231 1235 13
· 74 -a 29 7 c ,o 32 14 7 17 46 21 30;fs ~~ 29 21 33 3237 56
t::l 75 3 44 7 29 II 1715 ~ 19 3 23 ' t 27 10,31 38 36 1441 9
~6 4 1 8 ~12 b 16 17 ·;.:0 332<t 5629 38.341939 2645 I
>.tl 77 4 20 8 42 T3 7 f7 JH 22 I 6 27 ·' 32 8 37 3C 43 19 49 48
../ 78 4 43 9 27 14 H 19 12 24 18 29 38 35 17 41 23 48 1056 3
- i9 5 9'0 2( r5 31'.21 426 4532 44391046 1H54 ~465 7
~So 5 41111 25 17 17 23, 22 29 45 36 -3~44 81
52 5163 5590 o
8t 6 1912 4 19 I<j 26 12 33 32 41 35 50 50:62 3390 0
~ ~z 7 !:> q · 23 21 54 29 so ~8 3048 246o 33'90 c
sa1 8 cor6 3125 1t34 43 4s 27 ss S:l9o o
o_~4 9 34 19 24 29 ss 41 4 s6 21 90 o
85 I I 27 2] 31 36 49 53 0 90 0
861431~0584~2390 0
'i719 27414790 0
8~ 36 51 90 . 0
~~90 c
~igitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. sss
A TABLE of AscENSIONAL DIF-FERENCEs, &c.
Id. 1~-~ d.1
~. d. 1~. d:4m.,d.
1
;m. d.111
m
. l d!7
m. d
0
.'8m
1
.
9
1d
0.1 ~
2•1 /'C:O.
J 0 1 2 0 I 3 0 14 0 I 5 0 J 6 0 I 710 1 ' 0 2"2
21 0 2_1 0 25 0 :l8 0 ao: 0 32 0 34, 0 37 0 39 0 4:! 0 44
· "'31 o 35 o 38 o 42 o · 45! o 48 o 52' o 54 o 59 1 2j·1 6
/.: 4 0 47 0 SJ 0 56 1 o
: 1 4 I 9 I 14 I 18 1 2 3 1_ 2j
~ 51 o5K 1 4!r 9 1 15; I 21 ' 1 26 1 32 I 38 I 44! I 49
6 I 10 1 17 I 23 I 30;. I 37 I 44 I 50 1 57 2 4 2 12
_, 7 I 22 I JO 1 371 I 45i I 53 2 1 2 9 2 17 2 251 2 34
f:i I 35 1 43 I 52 2 o! 2 9! 2 IO 2 28 2 37 2 461 2 56
1:-- 91 1 A
. 61 61 6 6 8 8
.,. 1 s6! 2 1 2 1 2 26 2 3 2 43 2 r 3 3 1
~ 10 1 5s 2 9 2 20 2 31 2 42 2 s4 3 s 3 17 3 3o 3 41
I 1 2 10 2 22! 2 341 2 47 2 59 3 12 3 24 3 31 3 50 4 3
2: I 2 2 22 2 3sl 2 49. 3 2 3 t6 3 30 3 44 3 sH 4 12 4 26
'3 2 34 2 49! 3 3 3 t8 3 33 3 48 4 3 4 18 4 34 4 49
- 14 2 47 3 2 ·
. 3 18 ~ 34 3 so 4 6 4 22 4 39 4 s6 s 12
....:J I 5 2 59 3 16 3 Jj 3 50 4 7 4 24 4 42 5 O 5 I 8 5 361
16 3 12 3 30j 3 48 4 61 4 24 4 43 s 2 5 21 5 40 5 591
(.) 17 3 24 3 44· 4 3 4 2214 42 5 2 5 22 5 421 6 2 6 23
18 3 37 3 sB! 4 rs 4 39 s o s 21 s 42 6 4 9 25 6 4711
:il J 9 3 5° 4 121.4 34 4 55 s 18 5 40 6 3 6 26 6 49 7 12
~ 2~ 4 3 4 26, 4 ' 491 5 12 5 36 5 59 6 24 6 ..p 7 12 7 371
21 4 17 4 41 ~ 5 5' 5 3° 5 54 6 19 6 45 7 JO 7 36 8 ~
22 4 3o 4 S6
1
. 5 21 / S 47 6 IJ 6 ~9 7 6 7 83 8 0 8 2 7
-o 2 3 4 44 s 11 s 3i 6 s 6 32 6 59 7 27 7 56 s 24 8 sa
24 4 5s s 26 5 s4! 6 23! 6 51 7 2o 7 49 8 19 8 49 9 19
2 5 5 12 5 4 I 6 I 1
1
6 4 1 I 7 11 7 41 8 I 2 8 43 9 14 9 461 .
'f.l ]26 5 26 5 57 6 28 6 59. 7 31 8 2 8 35 9 7 9 40 ;O I4
'27 5 41 6 13 6 45 7 18 7 51 8 24 8 5~1 9 3210 610 411
t.ll ;28 5 s6i 6 29 7 3' 7· 37!8 11 8 46 · 9 21/9·57 Io 3311 9.
~ '29 6 II 6 46 7 21 7 51 8 32 9 91 9 45jl0 2311 Oll 38'
l30 6 2- 7 3 7 40, 8' 17 8 54 9 J2 10 10. IO 49 I 1 2812 8
:1(31 6 42 7 2C 7 S9: 8 37 9 16 9 55 10 35 II 16 I I 5612 38
i31. 6 59 7 38 8 18 8 58 9 38 tO ' t 9,JI 111 4312 25.13 9
C!> 33 7 rs 7 56 H 37 9 1910 110 44 u 2 7 12 u 12 5513 4o
:xl '34 7 3a 8 15 8 57 9 4110 2SII 9lu 5412 4013 2614 13
35 7 49 8 34 9 18.10 3 to 49111 35!12 22 13 9 13 .57 ·
14 46
A·36 8 7 8 53 9 3911o 26 • I 13;12 1112 so 13 3914 29 15 2c
;37 8 25 9 13 to 1jro so, 1 39'12 2913 ro 14 to •s 215 ss
!38 8 +4 9 3410 23~11 14 12 s '12 57 13 45 14 42 ts 36 16 3'
·a9 9 3 9 5510 4 II 3912 ·32.13 ~6l i4 2015 151-6 1117 S
1
40 9 23 10 16u to 12 513 0'13 _B.~ 1+ 51 15 49 r6 4811 47
~o. 28. . · 6 U
. · Digitized by Coogle
s56 A N I L L- U S T R A T I .0 N
A TABLE of A~CENsioNAL DrFF'ER F.NCEs, &c.
·--......·-·- .......................
- - --
· 11 -~ ~4 1~ ~9 ~~ 3·s ~~~ a·t/3 ~·8 ,d4 ·;·{J t5 r;, 1d6 ~·4 t, ~-5 1d8 2 7
'
.11 a · · I..J 14 I lS 16 17 -.a-- -~ 1 9 :&om.
}210 5 u 212 OI2581J58145Hrs5917 118 4'9 t.
. 43 10 27 .11 26 I 2 26 13 27 I.} 28 15 31 16 34 17 38 t8 44 19 5C
·z4410 49115112 53•13 5615 016 · 51710181719 -2520 35
' 45 I f I 3 12 t6 I 3 2I 14 28 1 5 33 t6 40 17 48 t8 58 20 8 2I 21
o 46u 37 12 43 13 5c 14 5s16 7 17 1018 27 19 4c zo s3 2~ 9
_ 47 12 21 3 111
14 2015 3o 16. 421
17 54 19 8 20 23 21 40 22 58
4812 2fh3 39114 5116 517 19,18 3419 5121 s .Z2 2923 51
.... 4912 5514 915 2416 4017 571
19 16,20 3621 5723 2024 45 ·
5o 13 24 14 40 15 ss 17 .•7 18 ~7~ 19 59;21 .22 22 47 24 ts 25 42
<C 51''3 53~5 1316 3417 5619 19120 44221123 3925 1026 43
. 52 14 24115 47 17 111
18 37 20 3 21 32:23 2 24 34 26 9 27 46
Z. .53 14 5716 2317 50!19 19 20 50:22 22:23 56 25 35 27 I 1 28 53
~-o~ 54-15 3117 118 32.20 4su 3823 1524 531
26 3428 17l3o 4
55 16 7!17 40 19 1,5 20 52 22 30 24 10_
25 53:27 39 29 2713I 19
~ s6t6 45 18 222c 121 422J 24 25 926 57128 4o 3o 42 JZ 39
' U 5717 2519 6 20_49 22 35 22 2226 1228 S JO 11
32 l 34 5
•sH 18 7119 52 21 41 2J 31 2 5 23 27 19 29 18 JI 201
33 26 35 37
~ 59 t8 S2 20 43 22 36 24 31 26 29 28 3oj3o 35 J2 44 34 58 3, 1?
6o 19 40\21 36 23 34 25 35 l7 391
29 47 Jl sH 34- IS 36 37 39 s
: 0 61 20 J2 22 23 24 37 26 44 28 541
31 9 33 28 35 53 38 25!41 3
62 21 37 23 34 25 4427 ss 3o 36132 3s3s 6 37 40 40 22j4a 12
._ 6322 2624 3926 5729 1831 441
34 1s36 5239 3742 3445 35
0 64 23 29 25 SO 28 15 JO 4-5 33 19'36 138 49 41 4t 4-4 541
48 16
6s 24· 38 27 71
29 ·P 32 10 35 437 s64o s~ 44 1047 36 51 19 ·
rJ 6625 5328 3131 1434 337 o4o 643 2246 5250 3954 so
67 27 15 30 3 JZ 57]35 58 39 8 42 3046 4 49 56 54 13 59 2
~ 6828 4531 4S34 5138 64' 3345 1349 1053 5258 2764 16
~ 69 10 25 33 37 36 58 40 30 44 16f48 2052 48 57 5063 47t71 28
. 7032 I 3 3S 44 39 22 43 141
47 24151 5957 8 63 1371 S 90 0
· ~ 7t,34 22 3H 7 42 646 2J 5 t 6s6 2362 37 70 4090 o
. 72·36 45 40 51 45 17 so ?Iss 3361 5770 1290 c
" 73!39 29 44 349 2 54 aBI61 13 69 42 90 · o
74'42 41!47 S0 53 37 6o 1769 8 90 o
~ 75 46 30~2 JO 59 3068 3190 0
0 76 51 14 58 2967 49 9o o
77 57 21 67 2 90 0
78 66 890 0
7990 °
Digitized byGoogle
Q F A S T R 0 L. 0 G Y~ 557
A TABLE. of AscENSION AL DIFFERENCES, &c.
I ~·~·3 ~·-;4 ~''"'25 ~~7 ~·sm;R •:~·9 •:'aI ';,li32 ~·:~Jf.do
3
;·5
2 0 46 0 49
1
0 55 0 '53 .0 56 0 S9 I l 1 4 I 7 I 9
z 3 I 9, I 13 I 17 1 20 1 24 I 28 I 32 1 36 I 40 l 44·
4 I . 321' I 37j l 42 1 47 1 52 1 57 2 · 3 2 8 2 13 2 19
0 5 I 55 2 2 2 8 2 14 2 20 2 27 2 33 2 40 2 47j 2 54
6 2 19 2 26 2 33 2 41 2 49 2 s6 3 4 3 12 3 20 3 29
~ 78 2 42 2 51 2 59 3 8 3 17 3 26 3 35 3 45 3·54.4 4
~ 3 6 3 15 3 25 3 35 3 45 3 56 4 61 4 17 4 18 4 39
9 3 291
3 4° a s1 4 3 4 '4 4 26 4 as 4 so s ,2 s 's
<e to 3 s3: 4 s 4 18 4 30 4 s3 4 s6 s 9 5 23 s 3s s 51
11 4 1 7 4 30 4 44 4 ·58 s 12 5 26 5 41 5 56 6 1' 6 27
z 12 4 11. 4 s6 s 11 s 26 s 41 s s1 6 •3 4 29 6 46 1 3
I:J 5 5 5 it 5 3H 5 54 6 1 J 6 28 6 45 7 3 7 .21 7 40
~ 14 s 3~1 s 47 6 s 6 22 6 41 6 59 7 18 7 37 7 s6 8 17
....J IS 5 54( 6 13 6 32 6 51 7 II 7 Jl 7 51 8 11 8 32 8 54
16 6 19. 6 39 6 59 7 20 7 41 H 3 8 24 8 .46 9 8 9 32
u 17 6 44l 7 o 7 27 7 49 8 1.: 8 35 8 58 9 2' 9 4S 1o 10
~ tt< 7 to' 7 33 7 56 8 191 8 43 9 7 9 32 9 56 10 23 10 49
19 7 36 8 0 8 24 8 49 9 14 9 40 10 6 10 33 I 1 0 I 1 28
0 2C 8 2 8 27 8 53 9 19 9 4610 14 10 41 II 9111 38 12 8
21 8 28 8 55 9 23 9 so 10 19 to 47 11 1711 4612 17 12 48
22 8 55 9 24 9 53 ro 2210 52112211 53 12 2412 561 3 29
1) 2J 9 22 9 531
10 23 10 54 II 25 II 57 12 29 13 3 13 3714 11
24 9 .~o 10 22 to 5411 26 11 59 12 33 i3 7 13 42 14 17 14 54
25 10 19 IO 52 II 25 II 59 12 34 13 9 13 45 14 21 14 59 I 5 87
r'-1 2610 47•11 22 II 57j12 3313 9 IJ 4614 2415 2jl5 4116 21
~ 2711 ·1711 5312 2913 713 4514 .2Jl5 3'5 4316 2417 6
2 8 I I 47 1 2 24 I 3 3 I 3 42 14 21 15 2 I 5 43 16 2 5 17 8 I 7 53
~ 2912 17 12 561 3 37 14 181 4 59 15 4116 2417 817 5418 40
J01~ 4813 2914 II 14 5415 3716 2117 617 53I8 4019 28
~ 3113 2014 314 4715 3116 1617 217 sotS 3819 2720 11
0 213 5314 37'5 23 16 9 16 561
, 7 45 a8 34-19 242019 21 9
3314 2615 1316 016 4817 38,·18 27i'9 20-201221 622 ·,
~ 3415 o1s 4Q 16 3s17 29 18 21 119 2120 6l21 121 57 22 55
. 3515 3616 2617 1718 1019 319 s82o 5421 5'122 5 ~3 51
0
Digitized by Coogle
sss · A N · I· L L U S T. R A T I 0 N
A TABLE of AsCENSIONAL DIFFERENCEs, &c.
**' :::z-
11 z~ l 23 2.4 I z; :~.6 l "7 1 :~.!l ~- ~9 Jv.
I :36 ,i; ~. ,; "'·4,~ ·~s ,8 ~a··~ ~s ."om4s,.~ ~4!•~ ~ ~3 "~s·~ ~:,!
I j3~ t6 4!J '7 44\18 3919 36l2o 3421 34~22 25:.23 3-;-iz4 41j25 471
I . 3gl'7 27 (8 24119 22 20 2I '2 I 22 22 24,23 2H1
.24 33125 40126 49,:
'
lz 89'B 619. 6zo 621 ~22 1123 1624 22:25 3o:26 401
27 52
l )40118 47'9 49i2o 521.1 5623 224 91
25 19:26 3ol27 43j2H 59'
0 !141 19 30120 34 21 39 22 46 23 53 zs s;26 17 27 32 2g tj.t''30 7
I ,4220 1321 20'22 2823 3824 5026 327 1838 3629 .s6JI Iy
- 43 20 59 22 8 23 19 24 32 25 46 27 5:28 '22 29 43 v 7 32 34
r-. 44 21 45 22 58 24 12 z5 20 26 45 28 6,29 28 ao 54 32 22 3a s3
· 4522 3423 5025 726 26z7 4829 tiiao 3832 733 4035 16
~ 46 23 26 24 44 z6 5 27 27 28 52 30 20.31 51 33 2435 2136 44
._ 47124 18 25 41 27 5 28 31'130 O.J I 32:33 7 34 46 36 2~ J8 I 5
z 4825 1426 402H 829 3831 11 :32 47i34 ~836 II 38 039 53
- 49 26 12 27 42 29 1430 4932 26'34 8,35 53 37 53 39 39 41 37
5° 27 1328 47130 2352 333 4635 3J37 2339 194r 2143 2 9
..-l 51 28 17 29 s6 31 37 33 2135 9'3-7 2i38 59 41 2 44· 1145 29
(.) 52 29 26 31. 8 32 54~34 44 36 J9j38 38 40 42 42 53 45 I2 47 39
53 3° 37 32 35 34 17136 13 38 14 40 2o 42 33 44 53,47 2ljso 1
~ 54 3r 5433" 47 35 45 37 48 39 -
s6 42 1°44 32 47 2 49 43 52 37
55 35 14 35 14 37 19,39 294I 45 44 0146 41 49 35:52 20 55 33
o 5634 ·P 36 4838 59!41 zb43 4446 1949 4'52 2
1
·55 1658 52
57361438 224o 49·43 1745 5~48 401
sr 41154 58.58 3662 45
~.o- 58 37 544° 17l2 4745 2747 1651 1QI54 37!sB 1 9,62 3°67 31
o 5939 4°42 1644 57.47 4950 5454 t61ss o'62 1 4/>7 1873 35
6°41 5°44 2547 1950 27 53 5257 39161 5767 ~4,73 4690 0
Cl'.l- 6I 43 50 46 48 49 $9153 26 57 36 6 I 3H 66 49 73 351
90 0
6246 12 49 27 52 5s56 5261 1 7 66 32!73 23 9o o
~6348 5352 2H56 256o 54661473 ul9o o
6451 '55 55 1 56o 2965 5472 5790 °
r.rJ 65 55 2 3 6o 3 i'J 5 21 72 +2 90 o
~6659 346.5 972 269o o
67 64 44 72 8 90 0
<.:;) 68 71 49 90 0
6990 0
:tJ 70
0
I
~ DigitizedbyGoogle
I
0 F A S T It 0 L 0 G Y. 5S9
' -'
Digitized by Google
/
s6o AN ILLUSTRA-TION
A TABLE of AscENSIONAL DIFFERENCEs. &c.
31 / 3~ l 3J - 34 35 36 37 38 39 •
312~ ~~2~ m312~ ~8 2d3 ~·sz~ s32~ s32d6 ss;s m.o;9 ~73~ ~7
3222 322 5923 s624 5625 5727 028 529 1330 243137
. 3322 5823 5624 5725 s927 328 929 183o 29314433 1
z 3423 5524 5625 5927 428 1129 2130 3231 4833 634 28
35 24 53 25 57 27 3 28 11 29 22 30 35 31 5° 33 10 34 36 35 59
0 3625 5327 o28 929 2130 3531 5233 1234 361
36 237 53
~ 37 26 55 28 S 29 18 30 32 31 5033 12 34 32 36 437 26 39 13
3828 029 1 33o z9 3r 45 33 1o 34 3636 137 36 39 15 4o s8
~3929 730 2j J1 4433 634 5336 237 3639 1540 5942 49
4030 17~1 37 33 1 34 28 35 5937 33 39 1340 5842 4944 45
<t:: 41 Jl 29 32 54 34 22 35 53 37 3° 39 1040 55 42 47 44 45 46 5°
z 42~2 45 34 1535 47 37 2339 540 5242 4444 4246 4949 .4
4334 535 3837 1638 594° 4642 3944 3946 4649 251 29
~ 44 35 28 37 7 38 5° 40 39 42 33l44 33 46 42 48 59 5I 27 54 8
4536 5638 4040 30142 2544 2646 3648 5451 2254 457 3
.....l 46 38 2940 1942 !61
44 18,46 2948 48 51 17 54 056 s760 20
u 4740 71
42 444 846 2048 4051 1153 55 56 486o 1664 8
48 41 5243 57 46 9 48 31isr 3 53 48 s6 49 6o 11 64 4 68 44
Cl.l 49 43 441
45 57 48 2o so 53 53 4o1
s6 42 6o 6 64 o 68 41 74 52
5°45 43.4H Bso 43s3 3°56 3459 5963 4668 3674 4990 o
o 5147 5450 3053 19s6 2459 5163 4868 31 74 4590 o
1, 52 50 16 53 7 56 I 31
59 42 63 40;68 25 7l42 90 0
t..... .5352 5356 159 31,63 31681974 3790 0
0
54 55 48 59 16 63 211
68 11 74 32 90 0
5559 663 1o68 274 269o o
:/J 5662 5967 5374 1990 0
576742741290 0
Cl.l ss 74 4 90 o
wS990 o
6o
~ \
I
,
: I
...
i·
' I
: il ...
r
I
,.
I
Digitized byGoogle J
0 F' A· S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
A TABLE of AscENSIONAL DIFFERENCES, &c.
I 41 ' .~ ' "lJ 44 4S 40 47 4~ 49 5..,
1d. m. <l. m. d. m. cJ. •· d. m. d. .1n. d. m. d. ~- d: m.. d. m.
I o 5~. A 5+ · o 56 o 58 1 o 1 2 1 4 1 7 1 9 I 12
1 2 .1 44 1 48 · 1 52 1 56 2 o 2· 4 2 9 2 13 2 1B 2 2 3
• 3 2 37 ' 2 42; 2 48 2 54 3 0 3 7 3 13 3 20 3 2 7 3 35
) Z 4 3 29 3 37 3 44 3 52 4 I 4 9 4 18 4 27 4 37 4 47
0 5 4 22 4 JI. 4 41' 4 51 5 1 5 12 5 23 5 35 5 471 5 59
) 6 5 15 5 26 5 37 5 50 6 2 6 I5) 6 28 6 42 6 ··57' 7 I2
:~ ~ : 7 (j 8 .6 ~I 6 34 6 49 7 5 7 I 8 7 .34 7 50 8 7 8 2 ~
E-t ~ 7 I 7 161 7 32 7 48 8 s 8 22 g. 40 8 59 9 18 9 3B
9 7 55 8 121 8 30 8 48 9 7 9 26 9 47 to 8 to 30 10 53
< l :O 8 49 9 8 9 28 9 48 10 9 10 31 10 54 11 18 II 42 12 8
~·I 9 4410 slto 2710 4911 1211 5iiZ 112 2812 5513 24
Z I210 J9ll 1
.2111 2611 5112 1612 4: 13 II 13 3~ 14 914· 40
I 3 I I 35 I2 0 I2 2 6
1
12 53 I 3 21 1 3 50 14 20 I 4 51 15 ·
.2 4 I 5 58
~.1412 3112 S81J 271 3 5614 2614 58IS 3or6 .si6 4~17 17
~ 1-5 13 2813 58 14 28.ts 0 IS 3216 716 42 '7 19:17 57 18 ~7
16 r4 2614 58 rs 3 r 16 5 16 4o r7 1617 54 18 34 19 1619 59
u I7t5 i 5 rs 5916 34171017 4818 2719 819 5120 362122
1816 24 17 l 17 3818 17 18 5819 4020 2J 21 9121 57 2147
~ 1917 2518 418 4419 2520 920 532I 4022 2923 1024 "j4
O 2o tS 2719 8 19 5120 35 21 2122 8 22 58 23 511
12·4 45 25 42
2119 3020 3020 5921 4622 3423 2524 1825 14~6 l227 14
2220 34 21 2022 822 5823 5o24 4~2 5 4o26 4o127 4228 47
'0 2321 39 22 2823 1924 1225 726 527 5 28 . 8;29 i.43o 23
2422 4623 3824 3225 28 46 2627 2728 3129 3830 4832 3
125 23 55 24 .S0,25 47 26 46 27 48 28 52 30 o 31 121
32 ~~ 33 46
CI':J z6 25 5 26 J-27 3 28 .6 29 1I 30 20 JI 3232 ·4834 ':8 35 :2
~ 27 26 17 27- 18!28 22 29 29 .
go 38!31 5133 -~
74 .~8 35 $,3 37 .23
28 27 31 28 36j:9 44 30 54 32 ,:7 3l 25 34 3 6 1,2 37 43 39 19
~ 2928 4829 s6jr 8J2 22,33 4035 2J6 ~8 8 :o~9 3741 ~1
jo 30 73 1 19 32 35 33 5335 ~636 43 38 15 9 5341 3743 29
~ 31~1 2932 4534 535 2836 5638 294o 71
41 5243 4445 44
~232 5434 1435 3837 ·738 4040 1942 443 5745 2748 8
O 33 34 22 35 47 37 :i 6 3B .$0140 30 42 ~6 44 .8146 9 48 so so 43
~ 3435 5337 2338 5940 3942 25:441846 20,48 3150 5353 4o
35 37 30~9 . s40 46 42 33 44 26;46 29 48 40~ ' .353 40 56 34
~ .!639 1040 5242 3944 3346 3648 48s' 11 3 4s(s6 4259 s9
3740 S5rt-2 4444 3946 4248 5451 17t53 555649!6o 663 +1
3842 4744 4246 4648 5951 2254 o·s6 4R1
6o 111
64 o68 36
3944 45~9 4949 251 27 54 3 s6 57~6o 1664 41
6s 4'174 49
401.116 col.t9 4'C1 29 54 81t7 . 4l6o 2o1
64 8168 44!74 c2!oo 0
1
/
Digitized by Coogle
5oz A N I L L U S T It· A T I 0. N
A TABLE of AscENSlONAL DIFFE&BNGlU, &c.
-·
f ..
- ,.'
. ... · ~
. .
Digitized by Coogle
. .
T A B L E S
~HEWING THE
OBLIQYE ASCE~SION of the PLA.
NETS,
For· the LATITUDE of L 0 N D 0 N.
No. 28. 6Y
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Go?gle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
A T A B L E of 0 B L I Q_U E A S C E N S I 0 N S,
'Y'
d.
0
I
2
3
4
s
6
7
8
. 9
IO
11
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitude.
o 1 2 - 3 I 4 ' 5 6
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. rn. d. m.
o ~-;8 27 1~6 ss 3ss 21 353 47 352 1~ 35° 3-;;
0 25 358 52 !
357 19 355 46 354 I 2 352 37 35 I 3
d 49 359 17 357 44 356 10 354 36 353 2 351 27
I IS 359 42 358 9 356 a5 355 .o 353 26 351 51
1 s9 o 7 358 53 356 59 1
ass 25 353 so 352 1 s
2 ;__o a1 358 ss ~7 23 ~5 49 \354 ~::._ 352 39 I
2 29
2 54
a 19
3 45
4 10
4 as
i-
0 57 ~59 ,23 351 49 356 14 354 4° 353 4
1 22 359 48 358 13 ~~s6 38 355 4 353 28
I 46 o 12 358 37 ro57 3 355 27 353 sr
2 12 0 a7' 359 3 357 27 355 17 354 14
-1~--
2 36· 1 2 las9 27 l3s1 so 356 14 354 37
3 0 1 26 :359 52 35.g_ J 5 356 39 355 1
-- - --- -
I
12
13
14
15
16
17
5 I
5 26
5 52
6· 17
6 43
7 9
a 25
a·so_
4 15
4 4a
5 8
5 34
1 51·
2 15
2 41
a 7
3 33
a 59
0 '7
o ·P
1 6
1 32
1 56
2 22
358 41 357 1
359 4 357 27
359 3° 357 51
359 55 358 17
0 19 358 41
0 45 359 6
355 27 .
355 so
356 15
356 39
357 2
357 27
- ---1-------·--1----1-·--1
---
18
19
20
21
22
23
~a:
8 28
8 54
9 22
9 48
6 0
6 26
6 52
7 J8
7 44
8 10
4 2 5
4 5°
5 15
5 ~P
6 7
6 33
2 27
3 I 3
a 38
4· 5
4 31
4 57
1 I I
1 36
2 0
2 26
2 51
3 '16
359 32 357 52
359 56 asH 17
0 20 358 41
0 47 359 6 i
J 12 359 29 l
1 37 359 54
1---- - · - - - · - - - - - -·--1----1--- ---
24 IO 15
25 JO 43
~6 II 10
2 7 u as
28- I 2 6
29 l 12 34
3° ~3 3
8 38
9 6
9 34
10 I
10 28
Io 58
II 25
7 1
7 28
7 55
~ 22
8 49
9 17
9 45
5 23
5 so
6 17
6 44
7 10
7 36
8 5
3 43
4 9
4 35
5 2
5 28
5 55
6 23
2 2
2 27
2 53
3 20
3 46
4 12
4 ar;
0 20
0 43
1 10
1 ..6
j
2 J
2 . 26
2 53
. /'
Digitized by Google
566 A N I L L U ·S ,T R A T I 0 N
I
i
A T A B L E of 0 .B L I Q._U E A S C E N S I 0 N S,
I
For.the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.-South Llltitude.
;
- 6
¥
Id. om.
1 2 3 4 5
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. · d. m. d. m. d. m. :
- - - - ---
0 0 0 I 33 3 5 4 39 6 I3 ~ 47 9 21
1. 0 25 1 57 3 32 5 3 6 37 II 9 46
2 0 49 2 22 3 57 5 2H 7 2 8 35 10 9
3 1 IS 2 +7 4 21 5 54 7 28 9 1 10 35
4 1 39 3 11 4 46 6 19 -~ 52 9 26 11 0
5 2 4 3 36 5 I I : 6 44 17 9 so Jl 24
- -
- 6 2 29 4 3 5 36 7 10
: +a
10 16 . Il 49
~
2 54 4 28 6 · I 7 35 lO 41 12 13
3 19 4.53 6 21 7 59 9 33 J1 7 12 39
9 3 +5 5 19 6 52 8 25 9 59 11 33 13 5
10 4 10 s +a 7 17 8 so IO 23 u 5s 13 30
11 4 35 ' 6 7 42 9 15 10 49 I2 23 I 3.55
- - - -
I2 5 1 6 35 8 7 9 42 II 15 12 49 14 21 .
13 5 26 6 59 8 32 10 8 lJ 40 I3 15 1 4 47
14 s 52 7 26 8 59 10 34 12 6 13 40 IS 13
15 6 17 7 52 9 26 11 0 12 32 14 7 1 5 39
16 6 43 8 IS 9 51 11 26 12 58 14 33 '16 5
17 7 9 8 +3 10 17 11 51 I3 24 14 59 16 31
- - ---
t8 7 35 9 10 10 43 12 I8 13 51 15 25 16 57
19 8 1 9 36 u 1o I 12 44 14 17 15 51 17 23 ·.
20 8 28 10 3 11 37 13 I1 14 45 16 19 1~' 51
21 8 54 10 30 . 12 .5 13 39 IS I3 I6 47 ~ 19
22 9 ·22 10 56 I2 32 I4 5 I5 39 17 13 18 46
23 9 48 . 1I 23 12 58 I4 33 t6 7 17 41 19 14
- "10 IS Ill 5-; - ----
24 13 25 15 1 I6 35 I8 8 19 42
25 10 43 l ~ I9 13 53 15 29 17 2 18 36 .20 9
26 11 I0 12 46 14 21 's s6 17 30 19 4 20 39
27 l1 J8 I3 14 14 so 16 26 17 59 1 9 33 21 6
28 12 6 13 42 15 17 J6 53 18 28 20 2 21 35 :
29 12 84 14 ll 15 46 17 21 18 57 20 31 22 5 :
~0 '3 3 14· 4_0 t6 15 17 .P 19 27 21 0 22 33 i
Digitized byGoogle
0 it ' A S T R 0 L 0 a· Y.
.. __
, ...::
-~=-$ ....:._;_=; .; ..
A T A B L E of 0 B L I Q_U E A S C E N S I 0 N S,
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitude.
---------~----------·~
- ----~~--~~-~---~~--~~·
1 d. 3m.\ d. 4m. d. 5m. d.
6
m.
~ '
d.
0 1
d. m. d. m.
~
d. m.
- ---·----...---
0
I
2
11 25
II 53
12 21
8 5 6 23
8 33 6 so
9 1 7 18
9 29 7 46
9 55 8 12
10 23 8 40
4 39
5 ' 5
5 31
s s8
6 '26
6 53
2 53
3 J8. ,
3 45 i
4 12 1
4 JS I
5 4
3
4
J
~3 3 i
I 3 31
14 0
14 JO
15 0
IS 29
- --~---1--- ---'---l---t---1---
12 49
13 I 8
IJ 48
9 45
10 13
JO 4l
I 1 I 0
u 3s
I'l 7
6 16 0 I 4 19 12 37
7 16 3I 14- 48 13 7
8 17 2 IS 19 IJ 37
9 1 7 35 IS so 14 8
10 I~ 4 16 21 14 39
10 59
I1 22
It 52
12 23
I2 54
IJ 25
9 9
9 38
lO 7
10 36
11 6
11 37
7 21
7 49
8 17
8 45
9 1 5
9 45
11 18 33 16 53 15 10
l
- ------·'---·1---1---1----
17 26
17 57
18 ao
19 3
19 3~
20 12
13 s6
14 26
14 ss
IS 31
t6 2
16 34
12 6
I 2 36
13 .s
13 39
14 12
I4 44
' 10 15
10 45
11 J6
II 47
12 IS
12. 4?
5 32
5 59
6 27
6 55
7 22 I
7 52 '
8 21
8 so
9 19. I
9 5l
IO 20
10 so
19 8
19 41
20 IJ
20 46
21 21 '
21 56
- ----1----------·---·-- -·--1
IS 41
t6 13
!6 '46
17 IS
17 so
18 24
18 22 31
19 23 7
20 23 42
21 24 I9
22 2 5 56
23 25 33
24 26 11
25 1 26 42
26 27 28
27 28 7
28 28 48
29 29 29
jO 30 10
No. as.
20 47
21 2 I
21 55
22 31
23 7
23 42
24 20
25 0
25 39
26 0
26 59
27 39
28 21
18 59
19 32
20 6
20 42
21 17
21 53
22 31
23 8
23 48
24 27
2 5 7
25 48
26 29
17 8
17 41
18 t6
IS 53
19 28
20 3
20 3s
21 -16
21 55
22 33
2J 1'l
23 51
25 32
6Z
11 23
11 55
12 26
12 59
13 33
14 6
14 39
IS IS
IS 51
t6 28
17 4
17 41
t8 21
3
Digitized by G.oogle
,.
.~t>S A N I L- ~ U S T R A T I 0 N
A T A B L E Qf 0 B L I Q...U E A S C E N S I 0 N S,
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min .-South Latitud~.
~
Id.om.
1 2. a
4 ~ 5
6
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.:_ d. · ID.
- -
0 1J 3 14 40 16 .15 I 17 51 19 27 21 0 22 a3
1 Ia al 15 10 16 .44 . 18 20 19 56 21 30 23 '2
2 14 0 ' IS J8 17 l5 I18 so 20 26 22 1 23 33
3 14 30 16 8 17 46 19 21 20 56 22 32 .24 5
4 IS 0 16 a7 18 15 19 51 2I 2] 23 2 24 as
5 IS 29 17 H 18 46 20 22 21 57 2 3 33 25 6
- - - - -
6 16 0 17 37 19 16 20 53 22. 27 24 a 2S as
7 .16 31 1H 7 19 47 21 25 22 59 24 '35 26 10
8 I] 2 18 40 20 19 21 57 23 32 25 7 26 42
9 17 33 19 12 20 51 22 29 24 5 25 39 27 14
10 1S 4 1 9 43 21 22 23 I 24 48 26 12 27 46
11 18 35 20 16 21 55 23 3a 25 10 26 46 28 20
- - - - _...,..__ -
12 I9 8 20 49 22 29 24 7 25 43 27 21 28 54
13 19 41 21 23 23 2 24 40 26 17 27 ss · 29 28
14 20 13 21 56 2a 36 25 14 26 51 28 27 30 2
IS 20 46 22 30 24 11 25 49 27 26 29 4 3o as
I6 21 21 23 4 24 44 26 24 2S 2 29 39 31 14
17 21 56 2a 40 25 19 26 59 2S 37 30 15 JI 49
- - - - - ._
t8 22 31 24 14 25 55 27 34 29 14 JO 51 32 26
19 23 7 24 49 26 a1 28 12 29 so 31 28 33 3
20 23 42 25 25 . 27 s 2S 49 30 27 32 5 33 40
21 24- 19 26 3 ·27 45 29 26 31 3 32 42 34 18
22 24 s6 26 39 28 21 30 3 Jl 41 33 20 ~4 57
23 25 33 27 17 2S 59 30 41 32 20 33 58 35 35
- - - -
24 26 11 2].56 '29 3~ 31 19 a2 5s 34 37 36 13
25 26 49 28 34 JO J 32 0 33 38 35 17 36 53
26 27 28 29 14 30 ss 32 39 34 28 35 57 37 33
27 2H 7 29 54 31 39 33 19 35 0 36 37 as ts
28 28 48 30 35 32 19 34 I 35 42 37 20 38 s6
29 29 29 31 I] 33 0 34 43 36 24 38 1 39 38
~0 JO 26 3, 58 33 42 35 25 37 6 as 44 40 JO
Digitized by GoogIe
0 F . ·A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
A TABLE of 0 B L I Q.U E AS C ENS 1 0 N·s,
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitude.
----
5 l 1i
d. o I 1
2 3 4
n d. m. d. m. - d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.:_
- - - -
0 30 10 28 21 29 29 24 32 22 34 20 27 18 21
1 30 52 ' 29 2 27 9, 25 12 23 14 21 7 19 0
2 31 36 29 45 27 47 25 52 ~3 52 21 47 19 38
3 32 19 30 27 28 33 26 35 24 35 22 29 20 f7
4 33 4 :l1 12 29 18 27 19 25 18 23 11 20 sH
5 33 4-8 31 57 30 2 28 4 26 2 23 14 21 42
-
34 3;-1 32 42
- - - -
6 30 46 28 49 26 45 24 JO 22 24
~
35 ~0 a3 28 '31 33 29 33 27 29 25 20 23 7
36 7 34 15 32 20 30 19 28 15 26 6 23 52
9 36 55 35 2 33 7 31 6 29 I 26 52' . 24 37
IO a7 44 :u 5° 33 s6 31 54 29 5° 2~ 39 25 25
i 1 3d 33 36 39 a4 44 32 43 ao as t 2 27 26 12
- -- - ---
12 a9 23 37 3° 35 34 33 a2 31 28 29 J6 26 59
13 40 14 as 21 36 24 3~ 23 a2 17 30 7 27 4S
14 ~P 6 39 Ia 37 14 35 15 33 7 3° 57 28 37
rs 41 59 40 6 38 7 36 8 34 0 31 49 29 29
r6 42 52 ·P 0 39 I 37 2 34 54 a2 41 30 22
17 43 '+7 41 54 39 56 37 s6 35 4H 33 35 a1 17
- -- - -
--;-6 43 134 3'
IS 44 42 42 +S 4° 49 38 51 az I 1
19 45 36 43' 44 41 47 39 45 a7 as 35 27 33 6
20 46 33 44 41 42 44 40 42 as 34 36 23 I 34 2
21 47 31 45 38 43 40 41 a9 a9 a3 37 19 34 58
22 48 29 46 as 44 as 42 a7 40 31 31 '7 as 56
23 49-28 47 35 45 as 43 a6 41 32 39 19 36 57
- - - - -
24 so 28 48 35 46 a9 44 a6 42 31 40 20 37 59
25 51 29 49 37' 4~ 41 45 40 43 33 41 21 39 0
26 52 31 so 40 4 43 46 43 44 a6 42 25 40 3
:~
53 34 5' 4'2 49 46 47 46 45 4° 43 2~ 41 '7
I
54 a7 52 46 so so 48 51 46 45 44 34 42 13
..29 55 41 53 5° 51 55 49 s6 47 51 45 4° 43 20
30 s6 +6 5+ s6 53 2 51 3 4H 55 46 48 44 :_9-
· oigitizedbyGoogle
51~ A N · 1 L ·L U ·8 T ·ll A 'l" I 0 ·N
-- . .. . .
i
A T A B k E of 0 B L I Q_U E A S C E N S I 0 N S,
I
' I
-
I
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 3~ Min.-South Latitude,
n I 0 I -- s I 6
I 2 3 4
d . d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. Id. m. d. m. d, m.
- -~.--. ...-1 - - - -
c 30 10 31 ss 33 42 35 25 37 6 38 44 40 20
I 30 52 32 40 34 25 36 s 37 49 39 26 41 3
2 31 36 33 21 35 9 36 51 38 32 40 10 41 47
! 3 32 I9 34 6 35 52 37 35 : 39 I6 40 53 -42 Jl
4 33 4 34 5° 36 37 38 20 j 40 0 41 3~ 43 15
I
5 33 48 35 36 37 21 39 5 ! 40 46 .42 24 44 I
I
- ___....._..~.
- -· - - -
i 6 34 34 36 2I 38 7 39 5° 4-1 3I 43 .I2 44 48
I 7 35 20 37 s 38 54 40 37 42 tH 43 s8 45 34
H 36 7 37 55 39 41 41 24 43 5 44 45 46 21
9 36 55 3~ 44 40 29 42 lJ 43 54 45 34 47 10
IO 37 44 39 32 4I r8 43 I 44 43 46 21 47 59
11 38 33 40 21 42 8 43 51 45 33 47 II 4S 48
- - - ----
12 39 23 41 12 42 s8 44 42 46 24 48 I 49 38
13 40 I4 4-2 2 .43 48 45 34 47 I 3 48 53 so 30
14 41 6 42 55 44 41 46 25 48 5 49 44 51 ~2
IS 41 59 43 47 45 33 47 17 48 5~ 5.0 37 52 '13
t6 42 52 44 41 46 28 4~ JI 49 SI . 51 30 53 6
17 43 47 45 35 47 22 49 5 so 44 52 24 53 59
- - - - --- - -
..
t8 44 42 46 31 48 18 49 59 51 40 53 19 54 54
19 45 36 47 27 49 14 so 54 52 35 54 13 55 49
20 46 33 48 23 so 9 51 49 53 JO 55 9. s6 43
21 47 31 49 19 51 5 52 45 54 25 s6 4 57 39
22 48 29 so 16 52 2 53 43 55 24
~~
I s8 36
23 '49 28 5I I 5 53 I 54 42 1 s6 22 0 59 34
- - - - ------
24 so 28 .)2 I5 54 0 55 42 5~ 21 58 ss. 6o 32
25 51 29 53 17 55 I 56 42 5 21 59 ss 6t Jl
26 52 31 54 I8 s6 I 57 43 59 21 6o 58 62 JO·
27 . 53 34 55 20 57 3 ss 44 6o 21 6x 5s 63 JO
2H I5+ 37 s6 23 s8 5 59 46. 61 23 62 59 64 31
29 ss 41 5~ 26 59 9 6o 49 62 25 64 1 6s 32
JO ~6 J6 s 31 6o 14 6I 53 63 29 6s 4 ' 66 35
oi.gitized byGoogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
( A TABLE of' 0 B L I Q_U E AS C ENS I 0 N S, I
For the Latitude 51 Deg. ·32 Min.-North Latitude.
!Zl5
d.
0 I 2 3 4 5 6
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
11---1---1---1---·1---·1------1---
0
1
2
3
. 4.
.5
6
7
8
9
10
11
s6· 46 54 56 53 2 51 3 48 59 46 48 44 29
s7 s2 s6 2 54 9 52 10 so 7 47 .~6 45 38
58 59 57 10 55 18 53 19 51 17 49 6 46 49
6o 61 58 18 56 26 54 28 52 26 so 16 47 59
6x I4! 59 28157 37 55 39 53 38 51 ~9 49 1 3
6~ 23 6o 37 ~8 47 s6 so 5~ 49 1~2 41 so 2~
· 63 33 6I 47 59 s7 sB I s6 ·. 3 53 s6 51 41
64 43 62 59 61 8 59 r4 57 x6 55 11 52 58
6s 54 64 9 62 20 6o 27 s8 29 s6 25 54 12
67 6 65 22 63 34 6x 41 59 43 57 41 55 30
68 1 9 66 37 64 5o 62 5s 61 o 59 1 s6 so
69 33 67 52 66 5 64 IS 1 6~ 18 6o I9 s8 10
7° 47
72 1
73 17
74 33
75 so
77 7
69 6
70 22
71 38
72 54
74 11
75 29
-- - --
67 19 65 33 63 37 6x 37 59 31
68 38 66 so 64 s6 62 57 6o 53
69 55 . 68 8 66 16 64 17 62 14
71 u 69 26 67 34 65 39 63 35
72 30 70 45 68 55 67 1 64 59
73 so 72 5 70 17 68 25 66 24
78 25 76 48 75 10
. 79 48 78 7 76 30
8I 2 79 28 77 52
82 21 So 48 79 13
83 41 82 9 So 36
s5 1 83 3o 81 99
73 26 71 40 69 46
74 48 73 2 71 I I
76 IO 74 26 72 37
77 32 75 49 74 2
78 55 77 IS 75 28
So 19 78 39 76 54
67 49
69 16
7° 43
72 . 9
73 36
75 3
No. 29•.
Digitized by Google
572 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
IA T A B L E of 0 B L I Q..,U E A S C E N S I 0 N S, I
For the Latitude 51 Dcg. 32 Min.-South Latitude.
d.
I o I 2 3 4 5 6
d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
-- ----_______,___,_______
0
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
56 46 58' 31 6o 14 61 53 63 29 65 4 66 35
57 52 59 36 61 ]9 62 57 64 39 66 7 67 38
58 59 6o 43 6z 25 64 2 65 39 67 11 68 43
6o 6 6r so 63 ·3 r 65 8 66 43 68 6 69 46
6r I4: 62 s8 64 39 66 IS 67 51 69 22 70 52
62 23f 64 7 65 47 67 22 68 57 70 28 71 57
I ----1-------1---.1--·-
63 331 65 15 66 54 68 ao 70 3 71 34 73 2
64 43' 66 25 68 3 69 38 71 I2 72 42 74- 10
65 54 67 34 69 rz 70 47 72 20 73 49 75 16
67 6 68 45 7° 23 71 :ss 73 27 74 56 76 23
68 19 69 59j 71 35 73 7 74 38 76 7 77 33
69 33 'jt 13• 72 4~~74 I~ _}_S_49
__
·7_7_I?__2_8_43_
12 ;o 47 72 25 74 o 75 29 77 o 78 27 79 52
13 72 I 73 39 75 12 76 -43 78 II 79 38 8r 1
I+ 73 17 74 53 76 26 77 57 79 23 So 50 82 12
1 5 74 33 76 7 · 77 39 79 9 So 36 82 1 83 23
16 75 so 77.28 78 55 So 23 8r 45 83 14 84 36
17 77 7 78 38 8o 10 Sr 3s 83 3 84 27 8s 48
- - _ _ _ _I 1----------
78 25 79 5618~ 26 s2 so
79 43 81 I 3 82 42 84 7
81 ··2 82 3z s3 5s ss z3
18
19
20
21
22
23
82 21 83 so' 85 15 S6 39
sa 41 85 9 H6 33 87 s6
8S 1 86 28 87 53 89 I5
84 18
8s 33
86 47
88 2
89 17
go 34
85 39
b6 53
~8 7
89 22
9° 37
91 54
87 0
88 14
89 27
90 40
91 55
93 10
,___,___,___,_;______,_.__,,________
24 86 22 87 47 89 11
25 87 42 89 , 8 90 3I
26 89 3 90 28 9I 51
27 . 90 24 91 4s 93 ]0
28 91 47 93 I 0 94 3I
29 . 93 11 94 32 95 51
3P 94 34 9S 54 97 17
go 32
91 51
93 10
94 29
95 49
97 8
98 27
2
91 51
g3 10
g4 28
95 46
97 4
98 23
.99 42
93 10
94: 26
gs 42
96 59
. 98 ] 8
99 36
I 00 _,4
94 26
95 ~P
g6 57
98 lJ
g9 31
100 49
102 6 '
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 573
l A TABLE of 0 B L I Q_U E AS C ENS I 0 N S1
For the Latitud.e 51 Dcg. 32 rviin.-·Nortb Latitude.
:. d. 0
m. Id. 1
m. d. 2
m. d. 3m. d. 4m. d. '.n. Id.
6
m.
~ 9+ 3+ 93 I~ <)I 4-:; 90 x8 88 48 f)7 'I2 I 8s 35
1 95 5S 94 35 93 I2 9 I 4 5 90 I & 8d 41 87 5
2 97 22 96 I 94 37 93 12 91 45 90 11 8.) 36
3 98 45 97 26 96 3 94 39 93 12 91 4I 90 8
4 too 8 98 5I 97 30 96 7 94 41 93 11 9I 39
I_2,IOI 3J 100 ~~~8 S.~/97 J~ 96 .:_ 94 4~~ 93 I 1_
I
6 .102 57 101 40 100 23 99 2 97 38 . 96 IJ 94· 43
7 l1o4 22 103 6 101 49 100 31 99 9 97.44 96 16
H l1o5 46 104 33 to3 I7 102 o roo 39 99 16 97 46
9 I07 II !05 59 104 44 103 39 102 8 100 46 99 21
10 lOS 36 ji07 25
1
106 IO 104 56 103 37 102 16 100 54
11 uo 2 jlo~ s3 1o7 3s to6 23 ~s 8 103. 47 ~~2 27
~~I 27!-;:o 19 ~~9 7 107 52 ro6 37 \ro5 19j1o3 59-
13 112 53l11 46 irro 34 109 20 108 6 106 4H 105 30
14 Il4 IH,liJ .12 112 2 [10 so 109 36 108 20 107 2
IS I IS 44,II4 37 II3 30 I 12 19 1 II s 109 51 I08_ 35
16 117 10 u6 4 11 4 5s 11 3 4s 112 36,11122 uo 7
2_ -~8 36 i117 Jl 116 25 !115 16 I 14 ~_/112 53 1111 40
18 120 2 l11s 5s II? 53 !
1116 46 us 36\I14 25 ll3 13
19 121 27 1r20 25 119 22 ItS IS Il7 7 115 57 114 4·6
20 122 54 121 51 120 49 1119 44 I 18 36 I 17 27 I 16 16
21 I2f 20 123 18 122 16 1
1121 II 120 6 118 57 117 .49
22 125·46 124 45 123 43 122 40 121 37 I20 29 119 21
23 127 I2 I26 12 124 II I24 8 I2J 6 !121 59 120 53
--;-I28 3;-)I 27 39 ;;6 39 ~;-37 -;:4 35 ~3 29 -;:2 24 ·I
25 IJO 5 ii29 6 128 7 127 6 126 4 124 59 123 54
26 131 31 ;130 31 129 34 128 34 127 34 126 30 I25 26
z7 132 57 ir 31 59 131 2 13o 3 129 3 128 o 126 5s
2H 134 23 133 27 132 29 f3l 31 IJO 32 129 29 128 29
zg 135 SO 134 SJ 1 33 S? 1 32 59 1J2 0 IJO 59 129 58
30 137 15 136 19 135 23 lj4 27 1,13 2C) q2 2Q 1.~ 1 2'1
/
Digitized by Google
574 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0. N
I A T A B L E of 0 B L I Q..U E A S C E N S I 0 N S, I
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min .-South Latitude.
0 6 .
~ I . 2 3 4 5
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
-1---~---I------------1--·-1
0 94 34
1 95 ss
2 97 2I
3 98 45
4 100 8
s 101 33
95 54 97 I 2
97 17 98 34
98 39 1 99 ss
roo o 101 17
101 24 102 40
102 48 104 2
98 27
99 49
[01 9
102 29
103 51
105 12
99 42 100 54
101 2 102 13
102. 6
103 24
104 42
106 I
107 19
108 37
I 02 22 103 32
103 42 104 51
105 2 1106 11
106 22 107 31
-1------:--- - -
6 102 57 104 12 ros 23 1o6 33 107 42 j1oS 51
7 104 22 105 35 106 47 107 55 109 4 110 12
8 105 46 106 59 108 9 109 17 110 25 111 32
9 107 11 Io8 23 109 33 110 40 Ill 46 112 52
109 57
I I 1 1-7
I 12 37
113 s6
IIS 16
116 37
10 108 30 109 471110 s6 112 ~ 113 9 114 13
II 110 ,2 Ill 11 112 19 113 26 114 30 115 34
-;;- 11 I 27 lu2 36 ·-;-;-3 43 -;-;4-_4_8_ ~-5_5_2_,_1_1-6_5_5_,_1_17-5·-8-t
13 112 53 114 2 115 7 116 II II7 13 118 17 119 19
14 114 18 115 26 u6 30 117 34 u8 36 119 39 120 40
15 115 44 116 5o 11 7 55 u 8 57 119 58 121 o 122 o
16 117 10 uS 16 119 I8 120 20 121 2I 122 22 123 20
I7 ItH 36 119 41 120 42 121 44 122 45 123 45 124 42
!
- _,___ - -1--- - ·---,---
: I 8 120 2
l 19 121 27
; 20 122 54
: 21 124 20
\ 22 125 46
1 23 127 12
,-;;- 128 39
25 130 5
26 131 31
2 7 IJ2. 57
28 134 23
29 135 so
jO 137 IS
121 s 122 7 123 7 124. 7 125 7 126 4
122 30 l23 31 124 31 125 30 I26 28 127 26
123 ss 124 56 125 ss 126 54 127 5o I28 48
125 20 126 21 127 19 128 17 129 I3 130 10
126 46 127 45 128 43 129 40 130 37 131 32
128 9 129 9 IJO 7 131 3 131 59 132 54
1-------!--------r------------1-----·-,•
129 35 IJO 34 131 31 132 26 133 21 134 16
131 2 132 o 132 56 •33 49 r34 45 135 as
IJ2 27 133 26 134 I9 135 IJ 136 8 137 I
133 ·54 IJ4 SO 135 43 136 36 137 JO 138 23
135 18 IJ6 13 137 6 138 0 138 53 139 45
136 44 137 36 138 30 139 24 140 16 141 8
138 8 139 1 139 .t;5 140 49 141 40 J4.2 31
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 575
lA TABLE of OBLIQ..UE A s c E N s I 0 N S, I . I .
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitude. { ·11
I :
~ 0 I 2 3 4 5 6
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
- - - - - -
0 137 1 5 136 19 IJS 23 134 27 133 29 132 29 131 29
1 138 41 137 46 136 51 135 54 134 57 133 ss 1 32 58
2 140 7 139 12 t38 17 137 22 136 26 135 28 134 29
3 141 33 14° 39 139 44 138 so 137 54 •a6 s8 •36 0
4 142 59 142 6 141 13 140 JO 139 23 138 27 137 ao
5 144 25 143 32 142 40 141 46 140 51 139 55 138 59
- - -
6 145 SI 144 ss 144 7 143 13 142 19 141 24 140 30
7 147 17 146 24 145 33 144 41 143 46 142 53 141 58
8 148 43 147 52 147 1 146 9 145 IS 144 22 143 27
9 rso 8 '49 18 148 27 147 37 146 44 145 51 144 57
10 151 34 1 5° 44 149 53 149 2 148 12 147 18 146 26
11 152 59 152 to 151 20 ISO 29 149 40 148 46 147 54
- - - - -
12 154 25 153 36 152 47 151 55 151 7 150 14 149 22
13 155 5° 155 2 154 13 153 22 152 33 151 42 ISO S'Z
14 157 16 156 28 ISS 38 1 54 48 153 59 153 9 152 18
IS 15H 41 157 53 157 5 156 t6 155 27 154 37 153 47
16 160 7 159 18 rs8 31 157 42 1 56 54 ts6 3 15S IS
17 161 3~ 160 44 159 57 159 9 158 20 157 31 156 43
- - - - -
18 162 5s 162 9 161 23 160 35 159 +7 15s 5s 158 9
19 164 23 163 36 162 so 162 2 161 14 J60 25 159 35
20 165 4s 165 2 164 16 163 29 162 40 t61 52 161 3
21 167 13 166 28 165 41 164 55 164 7 1163 19 162 30
22 t68 39 167 52 16~ 6 166 19 I6S 33 164 45 163 57
23 170 4 169 18 t6 32 167 45 t66 ,5s 1x66 ~2 165 24
- - -
24 171 30 17° 43 169 57 169 1
,1 168 24 167 38 166 so
25 172 54 172 7 171 22 170 35 169 49 169 2 I 68 115
26 174 20 173 33 172 47 172 I 171 IS 170 28 169 42
27 175 45 174 s8 174 13 173 27 172 40 171 54 171 7
28 177 IO 176 23 175 38 174- 52 174· 6 173 20 172 33
29 178 36 177 48 177 . 3 176 18 17.~ 32 174 45 J73 59
; 30 t8o 10 179 13 178 2<) 177 43 176 .n 176 II t7.S 25
-~No.2 •
9 7 B
Digitized by Coogle
576 A N I L L U S 1' R. A T I 0 N
I
TABLE of 0 B L I Q._U E A S C E N S I 0 N S,
lA
For the Latitude ·st Deg. 32 Min.-South Latitude.
191. 0 I 2 3 ~, 5 I 6
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. 411. d. m. d. m.
- - - - - -
0 137 15 138 8 139 . 2 139 55 140 49 141 40 I42 32
I l38 42 139 33 140 26 141 19 142 13 143 3 143 54
2 140 8 14o 5B 141 52 142 43 143 36 144 26 145 17
3 141 83 142 24 143 16 144 8 144 59 145 49 146 40
4 142 59 143 53 1# 42 145 32 146 22 147 12 148 5
5 144 25 14.5 17 146 7 146 57 147 46 148 36 I49 27
- -
6 145 52 146 42 147 32 148 21 149 12 150 0 ISO so
7 147 17 148 .7 14s 56 149 45 1S0 35 lSI 25 152 14
8 148 43 149 32 ·ISO 22 lSI 9 1Sl 59 152 49 153 as
9 ISO 8 ISO ss 151 47 152 35 1 58 24 1S4 13 155 2
10 ISI 34 152 28 153 12 153 59 15+ 49 1 55 37 ts6 25
11 152 .S9 153 48 154 16 155 24 156 13 157 1 IS7 47
-·
12 154 25 155 14 t56 · 2 IS6 so 157 87 158 25 '59 12
13 1 55 5° 156 80 157 27 158 J s 159 2 159 -49 t6o 35
14 157 16 158 4 158 52 159 40 t6o 26 161 13 161 59
IS xs8 42 '59 28 16o 16 161 4 161 so 162 37 1163 23
16 160 7 16o 54 J6J 42 162 .z8 t63 14 164 0 164 47
17 161 32 16% .19 163 6 163 52 164 3s 165 25 t66 I2
- - -
18 162 5s l63 45 164 31 t65 16 166 3 t66 49 16~ 35
19 164 23 165 10 165 s6 166 42 t67 27 t68 18 16 59
20 z6s 48 166 35 167 22 t68 6 168 51 169 38 170 24
21 167 13 t68 2 t68 46 J69 32 170 17 171 3 171 -4-9
22 168 89 169 25 170 10 170 55 171 42 172 27 173 13
23 170 -+ 170 so 171 85 172 22 178 6 178 52 174 37 :
24 171 30 172 15 173 0 173 46 174 31 175 t6 176 ~
25 172 54 173 4° 174 27 175 12 175 57 176 42 177 2
26 174 20 175 5 175 52 176 37 177 22 178 8 178 54
~i
175 45 •76 32 177 17 178 2 1i8 -48 179 33 t8o 19
177 10 177 56 1~8 -43 179 26 I 0 12 18o 57 181 43
29 178 36 179 22 1 o B 18o 5.2 1·81 37 181. 23 J83 10
30 180 o· J:8o 47 18 J 32 ·182 11_ I8_8_ 3 l83 49 t8_i ~j_
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
j A TABLE of 0 B L I Q_U E AS C ENS l 0 N S,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitude.
6 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
d. d. m. d. m. . d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
----------1---r---1------+1
0 180 0 179 13 173 29 177 43 q6 57 176 It '75 25
1 181 25 t8o 39 179 52 179 9 178 23 177 37 176 so
2 182 50 182 4 181 17 1t:l1 ·34 179 47 179 3 178 17
3 184 IS.,I83 29 182 43 t8o 58 I81 12 180 27 179 41
4 185 40 1184 55 IR4 8 183 23 t82 as 181 52 Jt:ll 6
~~187 6 186 20 ~~~:_ 184 48 184 3 183 1~ 182 32
6 188 30 I87 45 !187 0 186 13 185 29 I84 44 183 57
7 I89 56 I 89 10 188 2 5 I 87 39 l 86 S4 I 86 9 (85· 2'J
8 I91 21 190 35 189 50 189 S 188 19 187 33 186 47
9 192 47 191 59 191 14 190 29 189 43 188 57 189 II
10 194 12 193 25 192 39 191 54 191 9 190 22 1189 36
_::. 195 37 194 5~..J94 4 193 19 192 33 191 47 191 1
12 197 2 196 15 195 29 194 44 I93 57 193 ti ri92 25
13 19~ 28_ 197 42 196 54 196 8 1195 22, l94 35 193 49
14 199 53 199 6 198 19 197 32 196 46 196 0 195 13
zs 201 z9 2oo 32 199 44 198 56 198 10 197 23 I96 37
I6 202 44 .2oi s6 201 9 200 20 199 34 I98 47 198 1
17 204 10 ,203 22 202 33 201 4S 200 58 200 I I 1199 2 5 '
- ....... - - - -- ~
18 205 35 204 46 203 59 203 10 202 2J 201 35 200 49
. 19 207 1 ?06 12 205 24 204 36 203 47 202 59 202 13
20 208 z6 207 37 206 49 206 2 20S I 2 204 23 203 35 :
21 209 52 209 2 208 I 3 207 25 206 35 205 47 204 59 ,
22 211 17 210 28 209 38 208 51 208 1 207 II 206 22 '
23 212 43 211 53 211 4 210 IS 209 25 208 35 207 46
---·i------::---....... -------r-...._..--.r---~~---------·r------......-·11
212 29 21 I 39 2f0 49 210 0 209 10
213 53 213 3 212 14 211 .24 210 33
2t5 19' 214 28 213 ~8 212 48 211 ss
216 43 21S 52 2lS 1 214' II 213 20
2t8 9 2I7 17 216 24 215 34 214 43
219 34 218 41 2-
17 41 216 57' 216 6 . ;
220 59 220 5 2r 9 u · 218 20 217 29 !
24 21+ •9 213 I 8
25 215 35 214 43
26 216 59 216 10
2
27 218 27 217 36
8 219 53 ,2I9 2
29 221 I 91220 27
ao 222 46 221 52
Digitized by Coogle
578 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
I A T A B L E of 0 B L I Q._U E A S C E N S I 0
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-South Latitude.
N S,
I
".t . 0 ' I 2 314 5
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
- - - - - -
0 ,J 80 10 I 80 47 I 8I 32 I 82 I 7 I 83, 3 183 45
I 181 25 182 I2 182 57 183 42 184 28 r8s IS
2 J82 so 183 37 184 22 t8s 8 t8s 54 r86 40
3 l 84 15 I 85 2 185 47 186 3'3 I 87 20 188 6
4 1185 40 186 2] 187 13 . 187 59 188 45 189 32
5 1187 6 187 53 188 38 189 25 19o u 1
190 58
- - - -
6 t88 30 189 17 190 3 190 49 1191 35 192 22
7 189 56 r9o 42 191 28 192 JS 193 2 193 48
s 191 22 192 s 192 5+ 193 42 194 27 19.~ 14
9 192 47 193 32 194 19 195 5 195 53 196 42
10 194 12 194 58 195 44 •96 3z 197 2o 198 s
I I 195 37 196 24 197 10 197 58 198 47 199 35
12 197 2 197 52 198 37 199 25 200 13 201 2
13 198 2S 199 16 200 3 200 52 201 40 202 29
14 199 52 200 42 201 29 202 18 203 6 203 57
15 201 19 202 7 202 55 203 44 204 33 205 23
1.6 203 44 203 32 204 22 205 12 206 1 206 52
17 204 10 204 ss 205 47 206 38 207 27 208 18
- --
t8 205 35 206 24 207 13 208 5 208 53 209 46
19 20] 2 207 so 208 40 209 32 210 20 21 I 14
20 208 26 209 19 210 7 210 s8 211 48 212 42
21 209 52 210 4.2 211 33 212 23 213' 16 214 9
22 211 17 212 8 212 59 1213 521214 45 215 38
23 212 43 213 36 214- 27 215 19 216 14 217 7
- · - -
24 214 9 215 2 215 53 ,216 47 217 42 218 J6
25 215 35 210 28 217 20 218 I 4- 219 9 220 5
26 216 59 217 54 218 47 219 42 220· 37 221 33
j27 218 27 219 21 220 16 221 10 222 6 223 2
28 219 53 220 48 221 43 222 38 223 34 224 32
29 22•
1 19 222 14 223 9 224 6 225 3 226 2
.J.?_ 222 _46 223_.1~~4_aL._ 22j _33 226 32 227 32
•
6
d. m.
-
184 35
18-6 2
187 27
188 53
190 19
191 45
-
193 10
194 g6
196 3
197 30
198 57
200 25
-
201 52
203 IS
204 45
206 13
20] 42
209 9
-
210 38
212 6
213 34
215 3
216 33
218 2
219 30
221 2
222 go
224 0
225 32
227 2
228 35
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 579
I A T A B L E of 0 B L I Q_U E AS C E N S I 0 N S, l
For the Latitude 5I Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitrlde.
"1.
d.
3 4
d. m. d. m.
5 6
d. m. d. m.
d. :. d. :n.j d.
2
m.
___, ----1---·-------- --
0 222 461
221 szl220 59 220 5 219 11 1218 20 2J7 29
1 224 11,223 t6,222 24 221 JO 220 361'219 44 zt8 sr I
2 225 37;224_41:223 47 1222 54 222 0 221 711..20 I 5 1
3 227 3'226 6 225 JO 224 17 t23 24 222 30 221 37
4 228 291
227 33 226 35 225 41 224 47 223 .51 ;222 59
5 -229 55 228 58 228 o 227 4 226 11 225 15 ·224 2r
11--- - ---t---1--·-1 -
6
~
9
10
11
228 29 227 35 226 ,39 225 44
229 53 228 57 228 I 227 6
231 17 230 2-Q 229 23 22$.28
2 32 4 1 2 31 4 s 230 47 229 5o
234 5 2 32 56 232 10 2 3 1 11
235 29 234 30 233 31 232 34
--·- -----
231 21 230 25 239 26
232 47231 51 230 51
234 l4i233 14 2J2 15
235 40?34 fO 2 33 39
237 61236 5 235 4
238 33,237 30 236 29
- - - I
239 s8 238 55 237 53
241 241
240 19 239 18
242 _so;241 44 240 4 t
244 16243 10 242 s
245 411244 34 243 30
247 81
245 ss 244 53
2 36 53 235 53 2 34 s3 233 s6
238 16 237 15 236 IS 235 ·J8
12
13
14
15
.16
17
239 40 238 39 237 38 236 40
241 3 240 I 239 _0 238 0
242 26 241 24 240 21 239 20
243 49 242 47 241 43 240 4'
--- --- ----1---- ----1----
248 33 247 24 246 17 245 I I 244 8 243 5 242 1
249 ss 248 49 247 41 246 34 245 33 244 26 241 23
251 24250 13'249 4 247 57 246 51 245 47 244 44
252 49 251 37,250 27 249 20 248 14 247 8 246 4
254 14 253 11251 51' 250 43 249 35 248 28 247 23
255 3s254 z.s 253 13 252 5 zso 56 249 48 248 43
IS
19
9.0
21
22
23
11---1---1---l--- ---1---1--·- ---11
24
25
26
27
28
! 29
~0
257 3255 48 254 37
zsS 27 257 11 255 s8
259 512s8 36 zs7 20
261 151260 01258 43
262 39·261 21 260 5
264 3:262 43,261 26
265 26'264 6t262 48
No. 29.
253 27 252 t8
254 48 253 J8
256 9 ·254 s8
257 30 256 t3
2sH 51 2 57 3s
260 II 258 58
261 33 z6o 18
251 9 250 3
252 29 251 23
253 49 252 41
255 9 253 59
256 28 255 18
2 57 47 zs6 36 i
2s9 6 •2s7 .s4 \I
Digitized by Coogle
..
'
s8o A N I L L U S T R A T 1 0 N
IA T A B L E of 0 B L I Q._U E A S C E N S I 0 N S, I
For the Latitude 51 Deg~ 32 Min.-South Latitude.
; 1:-d._
0
_·m_._,__
d._
1
_m.:_1
__
d._2_~.:_.1__
d._
3_m.:_t-d_.
4
_m_._,__
d._
5
_!D_·-I--d._6
_m_._1
0 222 46 223 41 224 37 225 33 226 3' 227 31 228 31
I 224 11 225 7 226 J. 227 J 228 0 229 1 230 I
2 225 37 226 33 227 31 228 29 229 27 2JO 31 231 Jl
3 227 3 228 1 228 5s 229. 57 23:> 57 232 o 233 x
4 22:3 2~ 229 28 2JO 26 123 I 26 232 26 233 30 234 34
s 229 55 23o S4 231 53 232 54 'z33 56 z35 1 2 36 o
- - - - -------l----1---t----1·----l·---11
6 231 21 232 21 1
233 21 234 23 235 2S· 236 31 2·37 36
7 232 47 233 48 234 49 235 51 236 54 238 1 239 7
g 234 14· 235 IS 230 17 237 20 238 2J 239 31 240 39
9 235 40 236 41 2J7 44 238 49 239 54 241 1 242 11
10 237 6 238 6 239 I 1 240 16 241 24. 242 33 243 44
11 23H 33 239 35 240 38 241 45 242 53 244 3 245 14
-;;· 239 5;241 -;- 242 ;-· 243 1;-\244 2~1-2_4_5_3_5_1~;-
13 241 24 242 29 243 35 244 44 ;245 54 247 7 248 20'
14 242 so 243 56 245 1 246 11 247 24 24H 3~ 249 53
IS 244 16 245 2J 246 30 247 41 1
248 55 250 9 251 25
·16 245 4I 246 4s 247 5s 249 1q 25o 2.4 z51 40 252 ss
_::_1247 ~ 248 I~ 249 26 250 4~_1251 5~ 253 1:_254 JO
18 248 33 249 41 250 53 252 8 1253 2J 254 41 256 1
19' 249 s8 251 7 252 21 253 37 254 52 256 I3 zsi 33
20 251 24 252 35 253 so 255 4 256 23 257 44 l59 6
21 252 49 254- I 255 16 256 31 257 52 259 14 260 39
22 254 14 255 27 256 43 zs8 Q 259 21 z6o 44 .z-62 1I
23 255 38 256 54 258 11 259 29 260 5I 262 16 263 44
- - - - - - - ·
1---1·--- -
24 257 3 258 20 259 37 126o 58 262 22 263 47 265 17
25 258 27 259 44 261 4 262 26 263 51 265 17 266 40
z6 259 51 261 9 262 30 .z63 53 265 19 z66 49 .z68 21
27 261 1i. 262 34 .z63 57 265 21 z66 48 268 19 269. 51
28 :t6.z 39 263 59 265 23 266 48 268 IS 269 49 271 20
~9 264 3 265 25 .z66 48 268 15 269 44 271 19 272 55
30 265 26 266_ 49 268 lJ 269 4I 2']1 I I .272 48 274 25
3
Digitized by Coogle
o· F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 5st
I A T A B L E of 0 B L I Q_U ,E AS C. E N S I 0 N S.,
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latit,ude.
d1. d. 0
m. d.'m.J d. 2
m. d. 3m. d. 4m. d. 5m. d.
6
m
~ L-- -r------·
I
o 265 26 264 6 262 48 z61 33 260 18 2S9 61257 54
1 266 49 265 28 264 9 262 51 261 37 26o 24 259 11
2 268 11 1 266 50 265 29 264 I I 262 56 261 41 2,)0 29
3 269 34 268 I I. 266 50. 265 JI 26+ 14 l263 I 261 47
4 270 56 26g 31 z68 .9 '266 s~ 265 31 l264 1H 263 3
5 1
272 18 270 51 269 29 26S 9 1
266 5o 1265,. 34 1264 19
6:273 38 272 1.J 270 49 269 28 268 ;-1266 so 265 34
· 7.'274 58 273 31 272 8 270 4s 269 26 268 6 266 s.o
8 276 19 274 5I 273 27 272 4 270 43 269 2J 268 5
9 2 77 39 276 10 274 45 273 21 'l7 I 515 27o 38 269 20
10 27'J 5s 277 28 276 1 274 37 273 I3 271 53 270 33
I1 280 17 278 47 277 t8 275 s8 274 27 273 7 271 46
-r---t------r---··
--- ----
~2 281 34 280 4 278 34 277 8 275 41 274 21 273 0
13 282 53 281 21 279 50 278 .ZI 276 57 275 33 274 21
14· 2R4 10 282 27 281 . 5 279 37 278 I I 276 46 275 24
15 285 27 283 53 282 21 2~0 sI 279 24 277 59 276 37
16 286 41 285 . 7 2R3 34 a82 3 28o 37 279 10 277 48
17 287 s8 286 21 .284 4s 283 17 281 49 280 21, . 278• 59
--;8 2_8_9_1-;- 287 3-;286 · ~ 284 3;-1283 ~28-;-;;-1z8o 8
19 290 27 z88 47 ,287 11 285 41 !284 1r 282 43
1
1
281 17
20 ·291 41 290 I 288 25 2'~6 53 1
285 21 283 53 282 27
21 292 53 291 IS 1289 37 z83 ·s 1
286 33 2S5 4 .283 37
22 294 5 292 26 ;290 48. 289 13 \287 40 286 11 128+ 44
23 295 16 293 35 :291 57 290 21 z88 48 287 18 .285 so
- - - - - - -· - I
291 JO 289 57 l288 26 286 58
24
25
26
· 27
2S
29
30
I .
296 ~7 294· 45 ·293 6
297 37 295 54 294 I 3
298 46 297 I 295 21
299 54; 298 10 ~96 2'9
301 l 299 17 297' 35
302 8 300 24 298 41
101 q. 1301 29 299 46
292 3S 291 3 289 31 288 3
293 45 292 9 290 3~ 289 H
294 sr 293 17 291 44 290 14
295 58 294 21 292 46 291 17
297 3 295 27 293 5! 292 21
29~ 7 296 1 1 294 56 293 27
_ . o - -
Digitized by Google
5·82 A N I L L U S T. R A T I 0 N
'
I A T A B L E o£ o B L r o__u E A s c E N s I o N s, j
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-South Latitude.
6
d. m.
l Id.
0
m. d.
1
m. Id.
2
m. d. 3m• . d. 4m. ·d. 5m.
~~265 26 266 4;-1
268 Ir269 41 271 I-;--27-2-_-4·7-.+2-7-4-25-ll
1 ·266 49 .26S 14 269. 39 271 8 272 40 274 17 27s s6
2 1268 11 269 37 271 5 1272 36 274 9 275 47 277 28
3 12'69 34 271 1 272 29 1
274 I 275 35 277 15 2.78 59
4 270 s6 272 21 273 5' 1275 '2.5 277 1 278 43 280 ao
~1271 18 273 4:_ 2]5 1~1276 50 278 28 280 1~ 281 5~
6 273 37 275 8 276 40 278 IS 279 55 281 38
7 274 58 276 3o 278 3 279 41 281 21 283 6
8 276 19 277 51 279 24 281 ·s 2 )']. 45 2~4 32
9 277 39 g79 11 2Ho 47 282 28 284· 1I 28 5 sB
10 278 sB 28o 31 282 8 z8 3 5o 28s 34 287 23
I I 280 17 281 53 283 30 2S5 I I 2::>6 58 2~8 49·
283 28
2 84 57
286 24
287 SI
289 17
2 9° 44
______,______,,___.___,___
. I
12 281 34 283 I 1 284 50 286 34 288 20 290 14
13 282 53 284 31 2S6 1o 287 55 2~9 34 1
291 35
14 284 10 2S5 49 287 30 289 IS 291 5 292 59
15 285 27 287 6 288 49 z9o 3-4 .292 26 294 21
16 286 43 288 21 290 s 291 SI 293 44 295 43
17 287 sH 289 a.s 291 21 291. 10 295 4 297 3
292 II
293 36
295 I
296 25
2Y7 46
298 7
_,___------ -1 - _ ,.___
I 8 289 13 290 54 . 292 41 294 27 296 23 298 23 300 29
19 29° 27 292 8 293 55 295 45 297 4 1 299 43 30I 50
20 291.41 293 23 295 IO 297 1 299 0 300 59 JOJ 19
21 292 53 ~94 J8 295- 26 298 19 300 17 302 19 304 30
22 294 5 295 51 297 40 299 33 301 31 303 35 3°5 48
23 · 295 16 297 I 298 51 300 46 J02 44 304 49 307 3
- - - ----- ---
24 296 27 298 13 aoo 3 · ~01 59 303 57 306 4 aoS 19
25 297 37 299 23 301 13 303 10 305 11 307 19 309 34
26 298 46 3oo 31 302 23 304 21 306 21 308 31 310 47
27 299 S+ 30I 41 ~03 34 305 31 307 34 .]09 14 3I :;a I
28 301 I 302 50 304 41 306 41 J08 43 310 54 JIJ 11
2 9 3o2 s '303 s8 3os 51 307 so 309 53 312 4 314 21
J 30 30-3 14 l3os 4 306 58 3os 57 311 r 313 u <115 31
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
I A T A B L E of 0 B L I Q_U E AS C E N S I 0 N S, l
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitude.
l d. 0
m..:... d.
1
mJ d. ~n. d. 3m. d. 4m. d. 5m. d.
6
m.
0 303 14 30 I 29 299 46 298 7 2.96 3I 294 56293 25 l
• 1 304 I9 302 3.4 300 51 299 II 297 35 295 59 294 28
•2 ~0~ 22 303 37 301 55 300 14 298 37 297 1 295 29
3 ,306 26 304 40 302 57 301 16 299 39 298 2 296 30
4 1307 29 3°5 42 303 59 302 I7 300 39 299 2 297 30
5 !308 3I 306 42 304 59 303 I8 'JOl 39 300 2 ;298 29
- ------1------- ---------
6 309 32 307 45 306 0 304 I B 302 39 30 I 2 !299 28
7
8
~ 10 52 308 45 306 59 305 I8 303 38 J02 0 i300 26
311 3 1 3o9 44 3o7 58 3061 7 3o4 36 302 59 1
30124
9 3I2 29 310 41 308 55 3o7 u 3o5 35 3o3 56 302 21
10 313 26 31I 37 309 51 308 IS 306 30 304 SI 303 17
11 314 22 312 32 310 46 309 6 307 25 305 47 304 II
_,___, ---------.--1-------
12 )31S 18 313 29 311 42 310 I 13o8 20 3o6 4-1 305 6
13 1316 12 314 25 !312 38 3IO 55 ·309 IS 307 36 306 I
14 317 8 3I5 19 i313 32 3I I 49 JlO 9 308 30 ~o6 54
15 JI8 I 1316 12 '314 27 312 42 ]II 2 309 22 :307 47
16 318 54 317 5!31 5 19 313 35 311 55 .31o 16 ·3o8 3~
17 319 4o 317 5s !316 12 314 26 312 47 !311 7 :309 3o
~ 32o 37 31s 4sl31 7 ;- 315 tsl313 36 311 5;-1
310 2~1
19 ,321 27 319 39 317 52 316 9 1314 27 ]12 49 :311 12 '
9.0 J22 16 320 28 318 42 ]16 59 315· 27 313 39 312 I
21 323 5 321 16 319 31 317 47 [316 6 314 27 312 so
22 323 52 322 5 320 19 318 36 316 55 315 15 313 39
:: ;:::: ~:: :: 1::: 5: ::: ~: :::: :: :::: ~: ~~:: ::
25 326 12 324 24 :322 39 320 55 319 14 ·317 36 ~15 59
26 326 56 ]25 10 ]23 22 321 4o ]20 o ]IS 22 ·316 45
27 327 41 325 54 324 8 322 25 J20 44 319 7 1317 29
28 328 24 '326 38 324 51 323 9 321 28 319 .s:o ~18 12
29 329 8 327 20 1325 35 323 52 . 322 1 I 320 34 1~1S 57
~0 <29 so ,<p8 2 h26 J8 ~24 3.~ ~22 .~4 121 16 ·319 40 .
Digitized by Coogle
5s4 A N' I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
IA T A B L E of 0 B L I Q_U E A's c E N s I 0 N S, \
For the Latittrde 51 Deg. 32 Min.-South Latitude.
;:. Id.
0
m. do Im. Id.
2
m..:... d. 8m..:... d. 4m..:...l d. 5m. d.
6
m..:...
0 303 J 4
I 304 lQ
2 305 22
3 306 26
4 3°7 29
5 308 3I
3o5 14 3o6 58 3os .s7 311 1
306 10 308 5 310· 4 312 9
307 14 3°9 to 311 9 313 15
308 18 , JIO 14 312 14 314 20
309 20 311 17 313 17 j315 24
310 22 1
312 19 314 20 316 27
313 12
314 20
315 26
J16 32
317 35
J18 39
31 5 31
gt6 40
317 47
318 52
31 9 57
J21 0
I I
-------- ---------·1-----
6 309 32 311 25 1313 21 315 22 317 27
7 310 32 312 25 1
314 22 316 24 318 28
8 311 31 313 25 1
315 22 317 22 319 29
9 312 29 3'4 22,316 20 318 21 320 29
1o 313 26 315 19 317 16 319 18 321 26
11 314 23 316 J6 3I8 12 320 IS 322 22
Jl9 40 J22 1
320 41 :323 3
321 {2 324 4
322 •P 325 2
323 37 325 58
324 33 326 54
---·--'-'------- --·r---r---·1-~- ---
12 315 18 3J7 f2 319 II 321 10 323 17 325 29 327 49
13 316 12 3•8 6 320 4 322 4 324 12 326 25 32~ 4~
14 317 8 3'9 o 320 59 322 58 325 6 327 19 329 38
15 318 I 319 54 321 52 323 52~1326 01·328 II 330 31
16 318 54 320 47 1
322 46 324 45 326 52 329 .2 331 22
17 3'9 46 321 39 323 32 325 37 327 42 1
329 52 332 12
--. - - .,__ _
__,_ . -
J8 320 37 322 30 324 26 326 28 328 32 330 44 33'3 1
19 321 27 323 21 325 16 327 18 329 22 331 32 333 48
20 322 16 324 10 1326 4 328 6 330 10 332 21 334 35
21 323 5 324 58 326 52 328 54 330 59 333 ·8 1335 22
22 323 52 325 45 327 40 329 41 331 45 333 54 336 ' 8
23 324 40 326 32 J28 27 330 27 332 31 334 40 336 52
-·J---1---- __,___,___,__,
_,___
24 325 26 327 18 329 4 331 11 333 15 335 22
2 5 3z6 12 32~ 2 329 5s 331 56 333 58 336 6
26 326 56 328 48 330 42 332 41 334 42 336 49
27 327 41 329 32 33 I 27 333 25 335 25 337 31
lzs 328 24 330 15 332 II. 334 8 336 7 338 12
29 32 9 8 330 58 332 51 334 48 336 46 338 52
3'"' 329 5° 331 ,1Q .~13 31 335 28 337 26 339 32
337 36
338 18
339 2
339 42
340 22
3.4-J 0
341 32 -
:an
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S ,T R 0 L 0 G Y. ·sss
IA T A B L E of 0 B L I Q_u E A s c E N s I 0 N s,
·For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitude.
-
-
d.
0
d. m.
I
d. in.
2
d.· m.
3
d. m.
4
d. m.
s
d. · m.
6
d. m.
-1------------___,___---
0 329 50 328 2. 326 t8 324 -J5 322 54 321 16 319 40
1 JJO 32 328 42 327 0 325 l7 323 36 32 I 59 320 22
2 331 12 329 25 327 41 32_, so 324 18 322 40 321 4
3 331 52 330 6 32H 21 326 41 325 o 323 22 321 45
4 332 32 1
330 46 ' 329 2 ~27 21 '325 42 324 2 322 27
5 ~333 l I 13.'31 26 329 4.2 328 0 326 22 324 42 323 7
6!333 461332 ~ 330 2-; 328 41 327 2 325 2-; 323 4-:;
7 334 27 1
332 42 331 I 329 I9 327 40 3.2.6 2 324 25
8 335 4 333 21 331 39 329 57 328 19 326 40 325 2
9 335 42 333 57 332. 15 330 34 328 s6 327 1 s 325 42
IO !336 I8 :334 35 332 52 131 I l 329 33 32 7 55 1326 20
11 [336 52 ~35 I1 333 29 331 48 330 10 328 32 :326 57
1
.- .
12 ;337 2;335 4611334 5 33'2 26 330 46 329 9 !327 3~
13 1338 4 336 20 .'334 41 333 1 331 23 329 45 l328 I I
14 338 39 \336 s6 335 r6 333 36 331 sH 33° 21 1
328 46
r s 339 14 .337 30 335 49 334· I 1 .332 34 33° s6 329 22
16 339 47 l33~ 4 336 24 334 46 333 9 331 32 329 s8
17 340 19 !338 37 336 ss 1
335 20 333 43 332 s :330 32 .
--;8340 5;--339 1;-337-;1,335 52 33~;-332 3·;-,;~6 .
19 341 24 339 44 338 5 336 27 334 so 333 14 1331 47
20 341 s6 :340 17 338 38 336 59 335 22 333 48 7 32 14
21 342. 28 1
'340 40 339 9 337 31 335 55 334 21 332 46
22 342 59 341 2o 339 41 338 2 336 2R 334- 52 333 18
23 343 27 341 52 .'340 12 338 35 337 i 335 25 333 so
·---·--------1 ,,--·---------
24 343 59 342 .22 340 44 339 7 .'337 32 335 57 334 22 ;
I25 344 3l 342 52 34I I 4 339 38 33H 2 336 2 7 334 54 .
26 345 I 343 22 341 45 340 9 338 32 336 st) 335 25
27 345 30 343 52 342 14 340 39 339 4 337 28 335 55
23 346 0 344 22 342 45 341 10 339 34 337 59 .336 27
29 346 29 344 so 343 16 341 40 340 4 338 30 336 s.b ,
30 .H·6 sH .34.~ 2o 341 41 342 6 340 32 339 o 337 27
ra
I
Digitized by Google
..
sS6 A N . I L L U S T. R A T I 0 N
II A T A B L E of 0 -~L I Q__U E A S C E N S I 0 N S, J
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min .-South Latitude. ,
i !d.
0
m. d.
1
m. d.
2
m. d. 3m. Id. 4m. d. S
m.l d.
6
m.
0 1
329 5° 331 39 333 31 335 28 k~7 26 339 3;-j34 I 3-;
1 33o 32 332 21 334 12 .n6 9 1338 6 34o u !342 19
2 331 I 2 333 1 334 sz 336 48 -,338 45 340 49 '342 s6
3 33 1 52 1
333 40 335 32 337 27 339 24 341 27 1
343 32
4 332 32 ,334 21 336 12 338 5 340 2 342 5 1344 9
5 ;333 II 1335 0 336 52 138 44 340 fl 342 41 :344 45
-----------' - ------
6 1333 49 335 40 337 29 1339 22 341 18 343 17 ,345 21
7 334 27 336 18 338 7 339 57 341 52 343 52 13+5 54
8 335 4 336 53 338 42 340 32 342 27 344 26 34() 27
9 335 42- .337 29 339 18 341 7 343 2 :H5 0 347 I
10 33~ t8 3.38 5 1
339 54 341 44 343 37 345 34 347 34
.II 33'-\ 52 338 39 i340 28 342 19 344 10 346 7 348 5
- - - 1 - - - - - - - _ . . . . , _ .
12 337 29 339 12 341 I 342 52 344 f2 346 49 348 37
13 338 4 ~39 48 341 36 '343 26 345 16 347 12 349 14
1 4 338 39 ;340 22 342 10 343 ss .345 48 347 42 349 4°
IS 339 1 4 340 57 342 42 ~44 29 13+6 21 348 12 350 9
16 339 47 .341 30 343 14 344 21346 52 34S 44 .350 41
17 340 19 342 2 j343 47 345 34 347 24 349 .
15 1351 1°
·--;;- 34° 5-:;342 3;-,343 1;- 345 ~~1'347 5-;349 4~1351 3-;
19 34 1 24 343 7 344 so 346 35 348 22 350 15 j352 8
20 341 56 343 39 344 21 3+6 6 348 54 350 45 352 38
21 342 .z8 344 16 345 52 347 37 !
349 25 351 I 5 1353 5
22 1342 59 :144 41 345 22 347 8 349 52 351 42 353 32
23 343 27 345 12 r46 52 348 38 350 22 352 1 I 354. J
24 1343 so 345 4-;
1
1347 2-:;349 -:;350 5-;352 3-; 354 2S
25 1
344 31 346 12 347 52 349 36 351 20 353 7 354 s6 !
26 345 1 346 42 348 22 350 4 351 48 353 34 355 22
27 345 30 347 11 348 so 350 31 352 IS 354 355 48
28 346 o 347 39 349 19 350 ·s9 352 42 354 29 356 1 5
29 346 29 348 7 1349 47 351 27 353 10 354 55 356 42
3° 346 58 348 35 3so 15 _351 5L151 37 lH 21 157 7_
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y.
IA T A B L E of 0 B L I Q_U E A S C E N S I 0 N S, J
For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-North Latitude.
M 0 I 2 3 4 . 5 6
d. d. m. d. m~ d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
-1--·---·-1---1--·-1------ --·--~·
o 346 s8 345 20 343 45 ~42 9 340 33 339 o 337 27
1 347 26 345 49 344 14 342 39 34I 3 339 29 337 s6
.2 347 54 346 t8 344 43 343 7 34I J2 339 5~ 338 25
3 348 22 346 46 345 IO 343 34 342 I 340 27 338 54
4 348 so !347 14 ·345 39 3+4 4 342 30 340 s6 339 .21
.s 349 17 347 4' 346 7 344 3I 342 s8 341 24 339 5'
6.349 4-;1348 ;- 346 35.344 5-;343 25 34l s-; 340 IS
7 35° 12 1348 37 347 2 1345 27 343 53 342 I9 ~40 46
8 350 38 349 4 347 28 [34-5 ss 34-4 21 342 4.7 341 14
9 351 · 6 349 30 347 55 ~46 21 ~44 47 343 13 341 4I
to 351 32 349 57 348 23 346 49 345 r8 343 41 342 9
11 351 59 350 24 348 so 347 16 345 43 344 9 342 37
- ...... - ----1
12 352 25
13 352 SI
14 353 17
15 353 43
l6 ·354 8
2._1354 34
IS 354 59
19 355 25
.20 3SS so
2I 356 16
22 356 41
23 351 7
24 357 32
25 357 s6
26 3SS 22
27 ass 46
28 359 11
29 359 34
JO 360 0
No. 29.
3SO so 349 17 347 42 346 9 344 35 34-3 3
3Sl 17 349 43 348 9 346 _
J6 345 I 343 29
351 42 350 9 348 34 347 2 345 27 343 55
352 8 '350 34 349 0 347 28 345 53 ~44 21
352 34 351 1 349 26 347 54 346 2o H· 47
353 I 351 28 349 52 348 20 34-6 45 345 13
- -
353 25 351 53....~5o- Is 348 45 347 11 ~45 39
353 52 352 18 350 45 349 11 347 37 346 5
3S4 '7 352 43 351 10 349 37 348 2 3+6 30
354 41 353 8 351 35 350 1 348 27 346 55
355 7 353 34 l352 l 350 27 348 S3 347 21
3SS 32 353 59 :~2 25 ~0 521349 19 347 4:._
Jss s1 354 25 352 so las I 17 349 44 348 I 1
356 24 13.s4 49 353 16 last 43 350 10 34~ 36
356 49 355 I4 353 41 352 H 350 34 349 o
357 I 2 355 39 354 6 352 J2 350 59 349 25
357 38 356 a 35+ 32 352 58 351 25 349 s1
ass 3 356 28 354 s1 353 23 351 49 350 I4
.us 27 356 55 1
3H 21 35J 47 H2 1~ :iSO JQ I
7 c
oi.
gitizedbyGoogle -
5ss A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
A TABLE of 0 B L I Q._U E AS C ENS I 0 N S,
. For the Latitude 51 Deg. 32 Min.-South Latitude.
)( 0 I I 2 3 4 5 6
d. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
-; 346 sBI348 3-;13so 1-;351 55 353 3-:; 355 2-;357 -:;
1 347 26 349 4 laso 43 352 24 354 5 355 48 357 34
2 347 54 349 32 last 11 352 so 354 32 356 14 357 59
3 348 22 349 59 /351 38 353 z6 354 58 356 40 358 24
4 348 .so 350 26 352 5 353 43 355 25 357 6 358 so
5 349 1 7 35~ 54 352 32 354 to 355 51 357 33 359 17
Digitized by Coogle
P . R A X I .S,
ForJiitding·the Oblique Afcen.fions.or Defcenjions ifthe Planets,for imy La-
titude; 6y the help if.drtifit:ial Sines at~d f'a11gents;
FIRST, The planet's d.ec_lination is t~ be (ought,- , . ·
Secondly, The height of the pole wherein the planet ie pofi.tcd. · · -.
Thirdly., With this enter the Sines ·and ":fangents, and i~in the afcen•
nonal difference.
Fourthly, The right afcenfion of the planet ll}U(l: be.. fourul, either as
it is or without latitude. : · · .·_ · .
Fifthly, To this right afcenfion, add or fubtract the afcenfional dif-
ference, according to the declination of the planet,. whether it be north
or fouth., and the oblique afcenfion is found.
1f ·the declination of a fiar is north, fubtraCl: the afcenfional difference
from the right afcenfion, and the remainder will be its oblique afcenfion;.
but, if added together, the fum will be the oblique defo¢nfion.of the .fUr.,
If the declination of a planet is fouth,'add the afcenfional difference and
tight afcenfion together, ~nd the ful}l will be its t>blique afcenfion;. but~
if you fubtraa, lhe remainder will be its oblique defcenfio~·
- E ·x A M - P L E.
Suppofe it be required to find the oblique afcenfion of
Mars, as in the· figure page 197 of this work, under the
devation· of the pole of the eleventh houfe, which is
-twenty-three degrees twent,-nine minutes J pr9ceed.fbus:.
Firft .find the declination o Mars, which is t\''enty-two
degrees two minutes north; with this look into a table
of artificial fines and tangents, and feek the tangent an-
fwerable1 t~ tha~ degree and minute., which will be _
Th~n feek the co~tangent.an!wcrable to the ~levation of
the· p·o1e (or latitude), viz. twenty-thre~ deg_rees twenty-
.. niftc minutes, and i't will be . ' ~
Which co-tan.gcnt fubtrad: from the tangent by addinr
1o.oooo.oo to the tangent, otherwife fubtrattion cannot
be ma4e; and there remains -
-,__.,;.
Digitized by Coogle
A N_ I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
This remaining number feek in the column of fines, and it will an-
fwer to ten degrees eight minutes, which is called the afcenfional dif-
ference. ·
Then feek the right afcenfion of Mars, in the foregoing
tables of right afcenfions, with one degree feventeen mi-
nutes north latitude, which will be
The declination of Mars being north, fubtraCl: the af-
cenfional difference from the right afcenfion, and the af-
cenfional difFetence is - -
The remainder is the oblique afcenfion of Mars requi-
red, viz.
d. m.
119 21
JO 8
109 13
To find tbe oblique defcenfion of the planets, with latitude, work as
by the following example of the Moon in the aforefaid figure.
Firfi, The Moon's declination is to be fought, which is four degrees
twenty-nine minutes north latitude.
Secondly, With this declination find the tangent anfwer-
able thereto, and it will be - -
Thirdly, Find the Moon's pole, viz. forty one degrees
thirty-fix minutes, with which, feek the co-tangent an-
fwerable, and it will be
Which co-tangent fubtraCl: from the .tangent, by adding
to.oooooo which fubtraction cannot otherwife be made;
there will remain - -
Which number feek for in the column of fines at the top, and it will
be found anfwerable to three degrees fifty-nine minutes, which is called
the afcenfional difference.
The Moon's latitude being two degrees forty-two minutes north,
Seek the right afcenfion of th~ Moonwith that latitude,
and it will be - - · ~ · · · ·
To this add the afcenfional difference, becaufe the de-
clination is north,
And the oblique defcenfion- required will be
3 59
36 52
If
~ .: , I
.. ~ ""
. : Q ~ k
}
oig.itized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. sgr
If the declination of the Moon were fouth, the a1cenfional difference
muft then have been fobtrad:ed from the right afcenfion, and the remain-
der would have been the oblique defcenfion.-The fame roles will apply
to the calculating or finding the oblique defc~nfion of all the planets, in
every degree of latitude.
I (hall now fubjoin Tables of Logiftical Logarithms, for the purpofe
of finding the part proportional, either in time or motion, between any
two planets or fignificators; which will entirely complete this fet of
Afi.rological Tables, and render them an eafy and familiar guide to every
fiudent, in afcertaining the direCl:ions of all the planets, whether mun-
dane or zodiacal, ditetl: or ·converfe, that can poffibly occut in the cal-
culation of nativities, or horary queftions.
To make the ufe of them more obvious to the underftanding of .every
reader, I 1hall fubjoin a variety of examples, lhewing how to. afcertain
the daily and hourly motion of any given planet; and alfo to determine
the precife time when any two fignificators will meet in one and the fame
point of the heavens, or form any other afpect upon the horofcope or ge-
niture of any enquirer, in the courfe of praCtice~ ·
The expedition with which Nativities may be calculated, or Aftrolo-
gical ~eries anfwered, by the aid of this fet of tables, not to mention
the expedition with which the governing configurations are found, will
amply reward the reader for any time or trouble bellowed in acquiring a
competent knowledge of them; as will abundantly appear by the method
in which I lhall bring up the diretlions of the fubjoined nativity of my
learned friend Mr. Witchell, Mafier of the Portfmouth Royal Academy.
It may alfo be premifed, that the ftudent, well informed in aU the fore-
going rudiments of the fcience; in the nature and tendency of the pla-
nets, and their various configurations ; will, with pleafing aptitude, by
the ufe of thefc tables, find himfelf qualified for the calculation of his
own or any other nativity, precifely in the fame way as will be laid down
in the management of that above-mentionecl, which will prove a compe- .
tent example for all others. . .
Thefe tables of Logiftical Logarithms are of a triple or three-fold ex-
tent; the firft column appertains to motion, the fecond to abfolute num-
bers, and the third to a correa meafure of time, as fpeci.fied at th:: top
of each table refpeCtively.
I have thought it moft confiftent to let the tables precede, and the ex-
planatory examples follow; for it is impoffible to imprefs the mind with
• No. ao. 7 F a proper
t I i
-·' I
f •
~ 1
~ ,.,,
I , , ~ !'
1 7 .,
Digitized by Coogle
592 AN ILLUSTRATION OF ASTROLOGY.
a proper idea of the procefs, without often referring to thefe and the
other tables which compofe the fet, as will evidently appear by what oc-
curs hereafter.
It is not abfolutely neceffary that the reader ihould frudy the art of con-
firuCl:ing logarithms to undedl:and the ufe of the following tables, which
are here inferted for the mere purpofe. of references, agreeable to the fcve-
ral Examples that follow; it is fufficient for the reader to know, that ad-
dition of logarithms is the fame thing as multiplication in common arith-
metic, and fubtraCl:ion in logarithms the fame as divifion; therefore in
multiplication by logarithms, add the logarithms of the multiplicand and
multiplier together, and their fum is the logarithm of the produd; and
in divifion, fubtraet the logarithm of the divifor from the 1ogaritham of
· the dividend, and the remainder is the logarithm of the quotient. To
extraCt the roots of powers by logarithms, divide the logarithm of the
number by the index of the power, and the quotient is the logarithm of
~he root fought; to raife a number.to any power, multiply the logarithm
of the number by the index of that power, and the produCt is the loga-
rithm of the power to which the number was required to be raifed.
TABLE~
Oigitized by Coogle
T A B L E S
0 F
L 0 G I STICAL L 0 GAR IT H M s.•
For finding the Part proportional both to
T I M E and M 0 T I 0 N.
..-
Digitized by Coogle
_.
,,
.,
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. S9S
LOGISTICAL L 0 G A R l T H M :,.
l\tlinute. 2 3 4 5 6
q I 1
----1---.-- ---1---1-----1---
120 300
1
· 6o
1---: ----1-----~---~----1------1
Time.
m. f,
h. m. h. m. h.' m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
0 24 0 48 1 12 1 J6 2 0 2 24
-1---~---·--- -- ---1---!---1---
0 1 17782 11761
11743
II725
I 1707
I 1689
11671
0
1
2
3
4
5
I
I
2
24 35563 17710
48 J25531 I7639
12 30792 I7570
36 29542 17501
2 8573 17434
0
14771 13010
14735 I2986
14699 12962
I4664 12939
14629 12915
14594 12891
I0792
1°777
I0763
10749
I 0734
10720
- ---- ---1---
6
7
8
9
10
11
3
4
27782 I7368 14559 1286H I1654 I0706
271121 17302 14525 12845 11636 10692
26532: .17238 14491 I2821 11619 10678
26o2r J 17175 1445·7 I2798 Ir6ot Io663
25563i I7110 14424 12775 I I684 10649
-1---- 25•49l-17_o_5_o.1
_1_43_9_o _12_7_s_31-~-·1-66_6 _ro6_
3
_
5
12
13
14
IS
16
5
6
14357 I 2730 I I549
I4325 I 2707 11532
14292 I2685 11 515
1426:J ·12663 11498
14228 I 2640 11481
14196 I2618 I 1464
I062I
ro6o8
10594
1o58o
tos66
10552
10000
9988
9976
9964
9952
9940
9928
9918
9905
9893
9881
9869
9858
9~46
9834
9823
9811
98oo
I7
24771 16990
24424 16930
24102 16871
23802 168t2
23522 16755
23259 16698
-1---1--1--- --~ ----- ___,___
97881
97771
976sj
9754
9742
9731
18
19
20
21
22
23
7 12
36
8 0
24
48
9 12
23010
22775
. 22553
22341
22130
21946
--------
24
25 I 0
26
27
28 11
29
~0 I 2
No. 30.
36 21761
o 21 5s4
24 21413
4s 2' 249
I2121 09]
36 20939
0 20702
16642
165s7
I6532
16478
16425
16372
16320
1626Q
16218
t616~
I 6118
16069
t6021
14165
14133
14102
14071
14040
14010
___,
1~979
13949
139 19
13890
IJ86o
I3831
q8o2
12596 11447
I 2 574, I 143°
12553 11413
12531 11397
I2510 1t~8o
12488 ua63
12467 11347
12445 11331
12424 I I3 I 4
I2403 I 1289
12382 11282
12162 I I266
12341 11249
10 539
10525
10512
10498
10484
104711
10458
1°444 .
J0431
10418
10404
1039'
10378
97201
9708
9697
9686
9675
9664
96<2
-Digitized byGoogle
596 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
J L o G 1 s T 1 c A L L o G .-1. R I r H M s.
! Minute. o 1 2 ] 3 4 , 5· I 6
1
_ _---' _ _ _ ~-~--1z.;..o___1_8_o
___2_4_o_ 3oo 1
'_3
_6_o_
1
j1 imc.
im· f.
h. m. h. m. li. m. h. m.
I I 2 1 J6 2 0 2
-- 1---
h. m. h. m.
0 2410 48
16ozt \ 138oz
15973' 13773
I 59251 13_745
t 5s7si 13716
15332 13688
157t56 1366o
30 1
12 0
3I 24
]2 48
33 13 I2
34 I J6
.35 14· 0
20792
2c619
20jl ~~
20]781
202481
20122
12312 11249 103781
1232c 11233 I030Sl
I2JOO 11217 IC3521
I2279 11201 IOJ39
12259 11186 10326:
12239 1117::- 10313
9652
9641
9630
9619
9608.
9597
-- ------------ --------1---1
36 24
37 48
· l
30 15 I 2
39 J6
40 t6 0
41 24
- ·1---
20008 15740 13632 12218 11154 10]00
19ss1 1 5695 136o4 I21 9s u1 3s 10287
19765 i 5651 1 3576 12178 I1Iz3 I0274
196521 156o7 13549 12159 r 1107 1o26J
19542'\ I5.s63 13522 12r 39 11o9 1 1c2+f
19435 15520 13495 I21I9 I1076 10235
9586
9575
95b4
9553
9542
9532
-- -·-------1
---1---
!~ '7 ~~ 1
:~m :~:~~ :~:~~ ::~~~ ::~1~~ :~:~~ ~~~~ .
44 36 1912~ I53931 13415 12061 11030 10197 9499
45 18 0 19I 3J 15351 13] 81 I2010 I 1015 I0 I~5 948>
46 24 tE935 IS3JO 13362 12022 1091 10172 947~
47 48 I8H42 15269 13336 12~03 1098~ IOlGO 94b7.
48 19 ,12
49 36
so 20 0
-1--- ---1--------- ---1
---i---11
I
1S751 15229 IJJlO 11984 10969: 10147j
Sl 24
52 48
53 21 12
18661 15189 1328~. 1196_
) 10954' 101351
r8s73 15149 132ji,. 11.?46 109391
10122i
Ib487 15110 13233 11927 I0924!, 1011~~
18403 1507·1 1320~ !1908 10)091 1009151
18320 15032 I]I8J JI889 10894 100_
85
9+56
9446
9435
9425
9414
940-J
-1------ ---1---1---·------.-.-1-----
54 36 I 182'39
I 8J .S9
18o81
18oo4
I792 9
17855
17782
55 22 0
s6 ·24
57 48
ss 2 3 12
59 36
6o 24 o
14994.
14956
14918
14S8r
14844
14808
14771
13158 _I 1871
13133 11852
131031 J 1834
qo83 1181b
IJ059 ll797
13°34 117791
13010 11761
3
Io88o
1o865
Io85o
1os35
10:521
to8o6
10792
10073
1oo61
,I 0049
10036
10024
10012
10000
'
9393
93~3
. 9372
9362
935 1
9341
9.33~
Digitized-by Coogle
0 'F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
I
597
L 0 G I S t I C A L L 0 c; A R I T H .M S. .
_M_i_nu~1_ _
7___
s_( 9 10 11 12 ,.13 /
420 4So 540 6oo
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m.l·h. m.
_ m. f. 2 48 3 12 3 36j 4 o
0 0 933 I 8751 8239) 7782
I 24- 9328 ~74-2 8231 77741
2 48 9310 87$3 822 3 77671
3 1 I2 9300 8724 8215 77Go
4 I 36 9289 87!5 8207 7753
66o
. i
h, m. ih. m. h. m.
4 24 4 48 5 12
7368
7361
7354
73+s
73+1
7335
I
6990
6984
6978
6972
6966
6960
5 I 2 0 9279 8706 8 H)9 77+5
. - ---:------ ---
6 24 j 9'l-69 8697 8191 77381 7~28i 6954
7 48 9219 8688 8d~3. 7731, 73221 6948
1 8 3 12 9249 8679 817sl 772+ 731s 6942
1 9 36 9238 8670 8167 7717/ 73o9j 6936
I
I IO 4 0 9202! 8661 8159 77101 73021 6930
1 11 I 24 921sl 8652 8I 52 17o1 7296:_6_
92_4
1--;-;--1 48 92o8) 894-3 814.~ 7698 72891
13 5 12 91q8j 8635 8136 7688 72 S3
14 36 918 ,' 8626 8128' 768r 72761
I 5 6 0 9178 8617 8120 7674 72701
16 24 9168 86o8 8112 76671 7264·
17 48 91 s8 8599 8104 766o 72571
------1---l---,-,....:--_ ---
t8 7 12 9•48 8591 8097 7653
19 36 9138 Bs8z 8oS9 7646
20 8 o ~128 8573 8o81 7639
21 24 9119 8s6s 8o73 7632
22 4H 9109 8556 8o66 7625
7251
7244
7238
7232
7225
7219
23 9 12 909 , 8547 Hos8 7618
-\------ --- ---' ---1
---1
---
24 36 1 9089 8539 8oso1
1 7611j
I25 10 o 9079 8530 Ho43: 76o4l
26 24 9070 8522 8035 7597
I27 4H 9o6o 8513 8627 7590
2 S II I~ 905c 8504 8020 75831
29 36 9041 8496 8o12 TS7i
30 12 o 90.~I 847'7 8oo4 75701
. 7212 6847
7206 6S4,I
7-:oo 6836
7193 6830
7187 6824
7181 68t H
7175 . 6.81 2
Digitized by Coogle
598 A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
I -L 0 GIsT I cAL L 0 G A RIT H M s. 13 --I
· Minute. 7 8 J 9 10 11 1 2
- 420 48o ,-;;-- 6oo 66o 720 78o
·--- h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
2 48 j I 2 J 36 4 0 4 24 4 48 5 1S!
I~ime.
m. f.
~1 l----l--8--
8 _, __
8---l---- 68 6
JO 12 0 9031 407 004 7570 7175 12 471
31 24 9021 8489 7997 7563 7168 6807 6473
32 48 9012 8476 7989 7556 7162 68o1 64~7
33 13 12 9oo2 8462 7981 7549 7r56 6795 6462
3+ I 36 8992 8453 7974 7542 71491
· 6789 6451
35 ii4 0 8983 8445 7966 7535 714J 6784 6451
____,
36 24
37 48
38 15 12
39 I 36
40 16 0
41 24
- -1
·---1---11
8973 8437 7959 7528 71371 6778 6446
8964 8428 7951 7522 7•31 6772 6441
8954 8420 7944 7515 7124 6766 6435
8945 8411 7936 75o8 7118 6761 6430
. 8935 84°3 7929 7501 7112 6755 . 6425
8926 8395 7921 7494 7106 6749 6420
-1----·--1--1-- --1--
42 48
43 17 12
44 J6
45 z8 o
46 .24
47 48
89i7
8907
8898
8888
8879
8870
7100 6743
7093 6738
7087 6732
7o8x 6726
7075 6721
7069 6715
6414
6409
6404
6J98
6393
6J88
- · - - 1 - - - 1 - - - -----1--1---1--....,...
48 19 12
49 36
so
51
52
53 21 12
---
886r
8851
8842
8833
8824
8814
8337
8)28
8J20
8J12
8J04
8296
7869
7862
7855
7847
7840
7832
7447
7441
7434
7427
742 I
7414
1---~---1·--
7063
7°57
7cso
7044
7038
7032
6709 .
6704
6698
6692
6687
6681
54 36 88os 8288 7825 7407 7026 6676 6351
55 22 0 8796 8271 7818 7401 . 7020 6670 6J461
56 24 · 8787 8279 7811 7394 701 4 6664 6341!
s7 48 87-78 R263 7so3 -7387 7oo8 6659 6336!
I58 23 12 8769 8255 7796 7381 7oo2 6653 6331! .
59 36 8760 8t47 7789 7374 6996 6648 6J2~
6o 24 o 8751 8239. 7782 7368 6990 6~4~ 6aldl
.. :-.-~~~~~~~~~~~~.a...lliiiaiii....il
. oigitizedbyGoogle
I
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G V. 599
L 0 G 1ST 1 C A L L t> G A R 1 ·1· ·H M :.-,,
Minute. 14 15 lD 1 17 18 19 1 zo
'
840 goo . g6o j1o2o 108:> 1140 1200 i
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m.j h. m. ~;-h. m~ h. m.
m. f. 5 36 6 o 6 241 6 - 48 7 12 7 36l 8 o
- - 1 - - - - --~ • ___I , 1
0 0 6J20 6021 57401 5477 5229 4994- 4771 1
1 24 6315 6o 16 57361 5473 5225 4990 47681
2. 48 6310 6o11 57311 546~ 5221 4986 4764,
3 I 12 6305 6oo6 5727 5464 5217 4983 47601
4 36 63oo 6oo1 5722; 546o 5213 .4979 47.s7J
5 2 0 6294 5997 57181 5456 5209j 4975 4753
6 2-4 6:89 599 ' 57131 5452 5205 49711 475°
7 4~ 6284 5987 57991
· 5447 5201 4967 4746
8 3 12 6279 59)2 5704 544j 51 97 4964 4742
9 36 6274 5977 5700[ 5439 5193 4960 4739
10 4 o 6269 5973 s695 5435 51 89 4956! 4735
11 24 6264 5968 5691 5430 s1s5 4952 4732
6259 5963 5686 5426 5181 49491 4728
- -
12
13
14
15
!6
17
_,___,
18 7 12
19 36
20 8 0
21 24
22 48
6254 5958 56S2 5422 5177 4945 4724
6248 5954 5677 5418 5173 4941 4721
6243 5949 5673 5414 5169 4937 4717
6238 5944 5669 5409 5165 4933 4714
6233 5939 5664 5405 51611 4930 4710
6228 5935 566o 5401 51571 4926 4707
6223 5930 s65s s397 51531
49 22 47°3
6218 5925 5651 5393 5149 491b 4699
6213 5920 56+6 5389 5145 4915 4696
62oS 5916 SJ42 5384 5141 4911 4692
6203 59 11 5637 53so 51 37 4907 4689
--------L----1---1------1---i--~1-------:------1
23 9 I 2
24 36
25 10 0
26 24
=~ l1 i;
' 29 36
JO 12 0
6Jg8
6I93
6188
6183
6178
6J73
6q8
5906
5902
5897
s89z
5sss
5ss3
ss7s
s633 5376
5629 5372
5624 5368
562o 5364
s615 5359
s6 11 5355
56°7 5351
5133 4903 • 4685
5129 4900 ' 4682
5125 4896 4678
5122 4892 4674
s118 488g 4671
5114 4ss5 4668
51 10 4881 4664
Digitized byGoogle
6oo A N . I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
LOGISTICAL L 0 G A R I T H M S.
Minute. 14 15 16 17 I 18 19 20
840 900 g6o 1020 !1o8o 1140 I2CO
--
Time. h. m.. h. m. h. m. h. m. 1 h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 5 36 6 0 6 24 6 48 7 12 7 36 8 0
- _ _I
30 12 0 6r68 s878 s6o7 5351 5110 4881 4664
jl 24 6163 5874 s6o2 5347 5106 4877 466o
32 48 6t58 s869 5598 5343 5102 4874 4657
33 13 I 2 6ts3 sB64 5594 5339 5098 . 4870 4653
34 36 6t48 s86o 5589 5335 5094 4866 465o
35 14 0 6143 sss5 5585 5331 5090 4863 4646
- - I
--
36 24 6138 ~8sol ssSo 5326 5o86 +859 4643
37 48 6133 5846' 5576 5322 5082 4855 4639
38 15 12 6128 5841 5512 5318 5079 4852 4636
39 36 6123 s836 5567 5314 5°75 4848 4632
40 16 0 6II8 5832 ss63 53101 5071 4844 4629
•P 24 6113 5_827 ' 5550 5306 so67 4841 ,4~25
-·
42 48 I 61o8 5823 5554 5302 50631 4837 4622
43 17 12 6toa 5818 5550 5298 5059 4833 4618
44 36 6099 s8t3 5546 5294 5055 483o 4615
45 t8 0 6094 s8o9 5541 5290 50S I 4826 461 J
46 24 6o89 s8o4 5537 5285 5_048 4822 46o8
47 48 6o84 5800 5533 5281 5044 4819 4604
-48 19 I 2 6079 5795 5528 5277 5040 48rs 460t
49 36 6074 5790 5524 5213 5036 481I 4597
so 2~ 0 6o69 5786 5520 5269 5032 4808 4594
51 24 6o64 5781 ssr6 5_265 5029 4804 . 4590
52 48 6o59 5177 551 I 5261 5_025 4800 4587
53 21 12 6oss 5772 55°7 5257 5021 4797 4584
- --
5+· 36 I 6oso 5768 55°3 5253 5_017 4793 458o
55 22 0 6045 5763 5498 5249 5013 4789 4577
r6 24
6040 575H 5494 5245 5009 4786 4573
57 48 6035 5754 549° 5241 soos 4782 4570
.s8 23 12 6030 5749. 54~6 5237 5002 4778 4566
·59 36 6o25 5745 5+8 J 5233 4998 4775 4563
6o 24 0 6021 5740 -~477 5229 4994 4771 45_.59,
2
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y.
LOGISTICAL L 0 (; A R 1 T H M S.
Minute. 21 . 22 23 24 25 26 27
- 1260 IJ20 1380 . 1440 I500 l560 1620
.
-
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. ll). h. m. h. m.
tn. f. 8 24 8 48 9 I2 9 36 10 0 10 24 10 48
-
0 0 4559 4357 4164 3979 3802 3632 34-68
1 24 4556 4354 4161 3976 3799 3629 3465
2 48 4552 4351 4158 3973 3796 ' 3626 34-63
3 1 I2 4549 4347 41 55 397° 3793 3623 3460
4 36 4546 4344 4152 3967 3791 3621 3457
s I2 0 4542 4341 4149 3964 3788 3618 3454
.6
l
4539 4338 4145 3961 37';5 3615 3452
24
7 48 4535 4334 41f.l42 3958 3782 3612 3449
8 3 12 402 4331 4139 3955 3779 3610 3446
9 36 4528 4328 4136 3952 3776 3607 3444
IO 4 0 . 4525 4325 4135 3949 3773 3604 34·41
I1 24 4522 4321 4130 3946 377° 3601 3438
I
-
12 48 4518 4318 4127 3943 ' 3768 3598 3436
13 5 I 2 45 1 5 4315 4124 3940 3765 3596 3433
14 36 4511 4311 ' 4120 3937 . 3762 3593 '3431
IS 6 0 4508 4308 4117 3934 3759 359° 3428
16 24 4,)05 43~5 4114 393 1 3756 3587 3425
17 48 4501 4301 4111 3928 3753 3585 3423 .
--18 7 12 4498 4298 4108 3925 3750 ,3582 3420
19 36 4494 4295 4105 3922 3747 3579 3417
20 8 0 4491 4292 4102 3919 .3745 · 3576 3415
21 24 4488 4289 4099 3917 3742 3574 3412
22 48 4484 4285 4096 3914 3739 3571 3409
23 9 I2 4481 4282 4092 3911 3736 3568 3407
-
24 36 4477 4279 4089 3908 3733 3565 34°4
25 10 0 4474 4276 4086 39°5 3730 3563 3401
26 24 4471 4273 4083 3902 3727 3s6o 3399
I
27 48 4467 4269 4080 3899 3725 3557 3396
2H I I I2 4464 4266 4°77 3896 3722 3555 33931
29 36 4460 4263 4072 389'3 3719 3552 3391
.go 12 0 44.S7 4260 4071 ~890 3_716 3549 3388_1
.
Digitized byGoogle
AN ILLUSTRATION
L T I C A-L L 0 G A R I T
Minute. 21 22 ' 23
Time. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 9 I 9 36 10 0
30 12 0 4457 3890
31 24 4454 38
32 48 44 38
33 13 12 4447 3881
34 36 4444 3878
35 14 0 4440 3875
36 24 4437
37 48 443
38 15 12 443
39 36 4427
40 16 0 442
4' 24 4420
42 48
43 1'7 I 2
I
44 36
45 18 0
46 24
47 48
48 19 ] 2
49 36
so 20 0
51 24
52. 48
53
54
55
s6
57
s8
59
6o
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A S T R. 0 L 0 G Y.
I
L 0 G I S T I C A L L 0 G A .l_t I T H M S.
Minute. 28 29 30 31 32 33 34
_____,___,___ --1---J--1------.·
t68o l740 t8oo 186o 1920 1980 2040
-----1---:---1---·1---:------
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
_ m. ~ 11 12111 3612 o 12· 2412 4813 1213 36
I
0
1
2
3
4
5
33101 3158 3010 2868 2730 2596 2467
3307 3'55 3008 2866 2728 2594 2465
3305 3153 3005 2863 2725 2592 2462
3302 3150 JOOO 2861 2723 2590 2460
3306 3148 3002 2859 2721 2588 2458
3297 3145 2998 2856 2719 2585 2456
- -----1---1
6
~ 3
9
10 4
11
3294
3292
32891
3287
3284
3282
3143 2996 2854
3140 2993 2852
3138 2991 2849
3I 35 2989 2847
3133 2986 2845
3I 30 2984 2842
2716
2714
2712
2710
2707
2705
2583
2581
2579
2577
2574
2572
- -- ---1---:--1---1
12
lJ
14
IS
J6
3279 3128 2981 2840 2703 2570
3276 3125 2979 2838 2701 2568
3274 3123 2977 2835 2698 2565
3271 3120 2974 2833 2696 2563
3269 3118 2972 283I 2694 2561
3266 3115 2969 2828 2692 2559
2454
2452
2450
2448
2445
2443
2441
2439
2437
2435
2433
2431
17
_,___,,__,__,___,__ ,__
IS
19
20
21
22
23 9 12
-··---1
24
25
26
27
28 11 12
29 36
30 12 0
. ~. 30·
3264 31 I3 2967 2826 2689 2557,. 2429
3261 3110 2965 2824 2687 2555 2426
3259 31o8 2962 2821 2685 25s3 2424
3256 3105 2960 2819 2683 2551 2422
3253 3103 2958 2817 2681 2548 2420
325 1
1
_3_10_1 _2_95_5 _2815 _2_6_7_811
_2_5_4_61
_2_4_1_81
3248 3098 2953 2812 2676 2544 2416
3246 3096 2950 2810 2674 2542 2414
3243 3093 2948 2808 2672 2540 2412
3241 30QJ 2946 2805 2669 2538 2410
3 z3s 3s88 2943 2So3 2667 2535 2408
1
3236 3086 2941 2801 2665 2533 2405
3213 3033 2939 2798 2663 2531 2403
Digitized by Coogle
'.
6o4 AN ILLUSTRATION
L 0 G I S T I C A L L 0 G A R I T H M S.
Minute. 28 29 30 31 32 33 34
16~o 1740 18oo 186o 1930 1980 2040 .
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.l h. m. h. m.
m. f. 11 I 2 I 1 I 6 12 0 12 24 12 48113 12 I 3 36
3233 30R3 2939 27981 26631 2531 24b3 I
3231 3081 2936 2796 266o 2529 2401
3228 3o7b 2934 ·2794 2658 2527 2399
3225 3o76 2931 2792 2656 2525 2397
3223 3073 2929 2789 2654 2522 2395
J220 J0711 2927 2787 2652 2520 2393
30 12 0
31 24
32 48
33 13 12
34 36
35 14 0
---
36 24
37 48
38 15 12
39 36
40 t6 0
41 24
,---- -.,___.
3218 3069 2924 2785 2649 2)18
3215 3066 2922 2782 2647 2516
3213 J064 29"20 2780 2645 2514
3210 J06J 2917 2778 2643 2512
3208 · 3059 2915 2775 2640 2510
3205 3056 2912 2773 2638· 2507
23"<)1
2389
2J87
23~4
2382.
-·1---:---1·----------·1---11
42 48 I
.23Ho
43 17 12
44 36
4$ 1'8 0
46 24
47 48
_,___
48 19 I 2
49 36
so 20 0
51 24
52 48
53 21 12
_,___
54 36 I
55 22 0
s6 24
I57 48
ss 23 12
59 36
fio 24 o
J203
J200
3198
3195
3193
3190
jt88
3185
3183
3180
3178
3175
3173
3170
3168
3z65
3163
3160
315~
3054
3052
3049
3°47
3°44
3042
2910
2908
2905
2903
2901
2898
2771
2769
2766
2764
27f;2
276o
2636
2634
2h32
2629
2627
2625
2SOS
2503
2501
2499
2497
' 2494
1------1------
2J,.S
2Jj'6
2374
2372
2370
2368
2J66
2j64
2362
2 359
2357
. 2 355
3039~ 2896 2757 2623 2492
3037 2894 2755 2621 2490
3034 2891 2753 26J8 2488·
3032 288g 2750 26t6 2486
3030 2887 2748 2614 2484
3027 2884 27461 2612 2482
__._ ----..........._..,~,__-
3025
3022
3020
3018
3015
301]
3010
2882 2744 2610 2480
288o 2741 2607 2477
2877 2739 26os 2475
2875 2737 2603 . 2473
2873 2735 2601 2471
2870 2732 25~9 2469
2868 2730 2596 2467
. .I
2353
2351
2349
2347
2345
2343
~~
Digitized by Coogle
- 0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 6os
L 0 .G I S T I C A L L 0 G A R I T H M S.
Minute.
~ 36 1 37
as 39 40 41
- 2160 1 2220 '2280 2J40 2400 2460
- h. m.l h. m.
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. b. m.
tn. f. 14 0 14- 2414 48 15 12 l5 36 16 .0 16 24
I
- 221s1
0 0 2341 2099 1984 1R71 1761 1654
1 24 2339 2216 209:1 1982 t869 1759 1652
2 48 2337 2214 2096 1980 J867 1757 165o
3 1 I 2 2335 22.12 2094 1978 1865 1755 1648
4 36 2333 2.Z10 2092 1976 J86J 1754 1647
I
5 2 0 2J3L 2208 2090 1 974 J862 1752 1645
- 24 I 186oj
6 2328 2206 2088 1972 1750 1643
7 48 2J20 .2204 20~6 1970 1 s5s, 1748 1641
8 3 12 2324 2ZOZ 2084 1968 1856 1746 1640
;
I
9 36 2322 2200 2082 1967 1854 1745 1638
' IO 4 0 2320 2198 2080 1965 185z 1743 16J6
I1 24 2318 2196 2078 1963 185o 1741 1634
·-
12 48 2316 2194 ·2076 1961 1849 1739 1633
13 5 12 2.314 2192 2074 1 959 1847 1 737 1631
'
36 2312 2190 2072 1957 t845 1736 1629
' 14
rs 6 0 2J10 2188 2070 1955 I843 1734 1627
16 24 23c8 2186 2.068 1 953 1841 1732 1626
17 48 2J06 2184 2066 195' 1839 1730 J624
-t8 7 12 2304 .2182 2064 1950 1838 1728 1622
19 36 2J02 2180 20621 1948 1836 17271 1620
20 8 0 2300 2178 2061 1946 1834 1725 1619
21 24 2298 21761 2059! 1944 1832 1723 1617
22 48 2296 2174 2057 1942 1830 1721' 1615
23 9 12. 2294 2172 2055 1940 J828 1719 1613
,
24 36 2291 2170 2053 1938 1827 1711) 1612
25 . 10 0 22.89 2169 2051 1936 1825 1716 161cl
26 24 22~7 2167 2049 1934 t82J 1714 16o8
27 48 2285 2165 2047 1933 1821 1712 11 o61 ·
28 rI 12 22~3 2163 2045 1931 1819 1711 1605,
29 36 22til 2161 2043 1929 1•)17, 1709 16031
30 12 0 2279 215Q 2041 1927 1·~ I 6 1707, 1601.
/
Digitized by Coogle
6o6 AN ILLUSTRATION 1
L 0 G I S T --i C A L L 0 G A R I T H M S.
Minute. 35 36 37 38 39 40 41
- 2100 2160 2220 2280 2340 2400 2460
- --
ITime. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 14 0 14 24 14 48 lS 12 IS 36 16 9 16 24
-. --
30 12 0 2279 2159 2041 1927 1816 1707 1601
31 24 2277 2157 2039 1925 1814 1705 1599
32 48 2275 2155 2037 1923 1812 1703 1598
33 13 12 2273 2153 2035 1921 1810 1702 1596
34 i 36 2271 2151 2033 1919 18o8 1700 1594
35 114 0 2269 2149 2032 1918 18o6 1698 1592
- 20301
-
36 24 2267 2147 1916 18os J696 1591
37 48 2265 2145 2028 1914 J803 1694 1589
as 15 12 2263 2143 2026 1912 1801 1693 1587
39 36 2261 2141 2024 1910 1799 1691 158s
40 16 0 2259 2139 2022 1908 1797 1689 15~4
41 24 2257 2137 2020 1906 1795 t687 1582
-42 48 2255 2135 2018. 1904 1794 .1686 158c
43 17 12 2253 2133 2016 1903 1792 1684 1578
44 36 2251 2131 2014 1901 1790 1682 1577
45 18 0 2249 2129 2012 1899 1788 168o 1 575
46 24 2247 2127 2010 1897 1786 1678 1573
47 48 2245 2125 2009 1895 1785 1677 1571
-48 19 J 2 2243 2123 2007 1893 1783 167s 157C
49 36 2241 2121 2005 1891 1781 1673 1568
so 20 0 2239 21J9 2003 1889 1779 1671 1566
51 24 2237 2117 2001 t888 1777 1670 1s6s
52 48 2235 2115 1999 1886 . 1 775 1668 zs63
53 21 12 2233 2113 1997 lb84 1774 1666 1561
-54 36 2231 2IIJ 1995 1882 1772 J664. 15{~
55 22 0 2229 2109 1993 188:> 1770 1663 15.5
s6 24 2227 2107 1991 t878 1768 t661 1556
57 48 2225 2105 1989 1876 1766 I659 155.4
I
ss 23 12 2223 2103 1987 187s 1765 1657 1552
59 36 2220 2101 1986 1873 1763 1655 1551
6o 24 0 2218 2099 1984 1871 1_2_61, 1654 . 1 549
~
DigitizedbyGoogle __
0. F AS T R 0 L 0 G Y. 607
L 0 G I S T I C A L L. 0 G A R I T H M S.
Minute. 42 43 44 45 46 47
2520 258o 2640 2700 276o 28zo 288o
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 16 48 17 1217 36.18 o t8 2418 4819 12
- ___,_____ ....,__,___---·-~
--~---~-----1
0
' 1
2
3
4
5
I
2
1549
1547
1546
1544
1542
1540
---t--·--~----1
6
~ 3
9
10 . 4
11
1539
1537
1 535
1534
1532
1530
1447
1445
1443
1442
1440
1438
1 437
'435
1433
1432
1430
1428
1347 1249 1154 1o6a 969
1345 114H 1152 1059 968
1344 1246 I 151 1057 966
1342 1245 1149 to56 g6s
IJ40 1243 1148 1054 963
1339 1241 ll.46 1053 962
-----t---~t-----1-----il
l3J7 i240 ll45 1051 96o
i335 1238 1143 1050 959
1334 J 237 1r41 1048 95r
I 332 1235 I 140 104-7 95v
133r 1233i ll38 1045 954
IJ29 1232 1~37 1044 953
_,___,______,___ --- ---1----t---t--
12 48
13 5 12
14· 36
'5 6 o
16 24
17 48
1528
1527
. 1525
1523
152:2
1520
1427
1425
1423
1422
1420
1418
-1---11----1---
IS 7 12
19 36
9.0 8 0
21 24
22 48
1518
1516
1515
1513
1511
1510
1417
q.r.s
1413
1412
1410
1408
1327 1230 I 135 1042 95 l
1J26 [ 229 1134 1041 950
1324 1227 1132 1039 948
13'22 1225 1130 1037 947
1321 1224' 1129 1036 945
1.3191_.;...1_2_2_21
__
u_2_71
__
' o_3....
4t__9_4.-4
IJI7 1221 1126
IJ16 I 2 I 9 11 24
1 3I 4 I 2.17 II 2 3
1313 1216 1121
1311 1214 1q9
1309 1213 1 uS
1033
10JI
1030
1028
1027
1025
942
941
939
938
936
935
23 9 12
___,_________,_____1-----~1-----·1~-----1------t·--
· ·-
--~
24
25 10
26
27
28 11
29
3<? I 2
No. 30.
1508
1506
1504
1503
1501
1 499
1498
1407
1405
1403
1402
1400
1398
~J97
1308
1306
1304
1303
1301
1300
1298
1211
1209
1208
1206
1205
1203
1201
1116 1024
1115 1022
I 113 1021
1112 1019
1110 1018
1109 1016
1!~7 . 1015 .
933
932
93°
929
927 .
926
924:
Digitized by Coogle
668 AN ILLUSTRATION
I L 0 GIST lC A L L 0 GAR IT HM S.~
Minute. · 42 43 44 ' 45 46 47 4H ··
. .
2520 2580 2640 2700 2760 282o 2B8o
--
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 16 48 17 12. 17 36 18 0 18 24 18 48 19 12 .
- --
30 12 0 1498 1397 1298 1201 1107 1015 924
31 24 1496 1395 1296 . 1200 IIOS 1013 92 3
32 48 1494 1393 1295 1198 II04 1012 921
33 13 12 1493 1392 1293 1197 1102 1010 920
34 36 1491 1390 1291 u95 I 101' 1008 918
35 14 0 1f89 1388 1290 1193 1099 1007 917
-36 24 1487 1387 1288 .1192 1098 1005 915
37 48 1486 1385 I 287 li90 1096 1004 914
3!j 15 12 1484 1383 1285 J189 1095 1002 912
39 36 1482 1382 1283 1187 1093 1001 91l
40 16 l48J 1380 1282 n86 '
0 1091 999 9°9
41 24 1479 1378 128o J184 1090 99H 90H
-·
42 48 I 1 477 1377 12]8 1182 1o88 996 . 906
43' 17 12 1476 1375 1277 1181 1087 995 905
44 36 1474 1373 1275 1179 to85 993 903
45 18 0 1472 1372 1274 1178 1084 992 902
¥> 24 1470 1370 1272 1176 1082 99° 900
47 48 1469 1368 -1270 1174 1081 989 899
- --...---
48 19 I 2 1467 1367 1269 1173 1079 987 897
49 36 1465 q6s 1267 ll71 .1078 986 896
so 20 0 1464 t363 1266 1170 J076 984 89~
51 24 1462 J362 1264 n68 1074 983 893
52 48 1460 1360 1262 1167 1073 981 891
53 21 12 1459 1359 1261 u65 1071 980 ~90
-54 36 I 1457 1163
I
978 888
1357 1259 1070,
55 22 0 1455 1355 1257 1162 I068i 977 8~7
s6 24 1454 1354 1256 1160 1067 975 885
57 48 1452 1352 1254 1159 1o6s! 974 884 .
s8 2J 12 1450 1350 1253 1157 1064
9721 8~~
59 36 1449 IJ49 1251 1156 1062 971 88t
6o 24 0 .. 1447 lj47 1249 1154 ·to6I 969; 8~ .
2.
Digitized by GoogIe
0 F A S T R 0 L 0 G Y. 6o~
L 0 G I s 'l' I c A L L 0 ( _
j. A 1.{ I 'J' H M s. I
Minu~ 49 so j 51 I 52 53 54 55
2940 3000 I3060 3I 20 3180 3240 3300
- - - I •
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 19 36 20 o 20 24 20 48 21 I 2.21 36 22. o
- .,__;.,
' - --1 1,--1--
o o 8So 792 706 621 539 458 378
I 24 879 790 704 620 537 456 377 ·
2 48 877 789 703 619 ~30 455 375
3 1 12 s,s 787 702 6I7 535 454 374 .
4 36 874 786 700 6t6 533 452 373
_2l_2
__
o_l__
8_7_2,__
7_8_s,__6_9_9,__
6 r_sl__
s_3_21__
45_1 __
37_1
6 24 \
7 48
I 8 3 12
9 36
1 10 4 o
~I 24
I
12 48
13 5 I 2
14 36
J 5 6 0
16 24
17 48
---
t8 7 12
19 36
20 8 0
21 24
22 48
23 9 12
_ ,_ _ _1
10 0
871 78~ 697 613 531 45C 370
869 7821 696 612 529 448 369 -
8681 780 694 6to 52S 447 367
866 779 693 6o9 sz6 446 366
8651 777 692 6o8 525 44·4 365
8631
776 690 · 6o6 524 443 363
---- ----- ---
862 774 689 6os 52~ 442 362
86o 773 6)7 603 521 440 361
8s9 772 66P8
,s61· 6oz 52o 439 359
857 77o 6o1 518 4-38 35~ .
8s6 769 683 599 s•7 436 357
Bss 767 682 598 .s 16 435 356
_____,____, i----1----
8s3 766 68o 596 514 434 354 ·
R52 764 679 595 513 4~2 353
8so 763 678 594 512 431 152
849 762 676 592 51° 430 35°
847 760 675 5911 509 428 349
846 759\ 673 _5_9_o 507 427 348
844 757 672 588 so6 426 346
fLB 756 67o 587 sos 424 · 345 ·
841 754 669 sss 503 423 344 .
84o 753 668 5s4 so2 422 342
8as 75 1 666 5s3 .so1 420 341l
837 75~ 66s sSt 499 4t9 34°
835 . 749 663 sBo 498 418 339
Digitized by Coogle
,10 AN ILLUSTRATION
L 0 G I s T I c A L L () G A R I T H- \'1 s. I
I Mi:~ 4~- so 5' - . 52 I 53 54 -~
........_..............,._.__ _2940 _ 3000 • 306~, JI20 13180 3240 3300
Time. h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.l h. m. h. m. h. m.
_ m. f. 19 3620 o 20 =:!20 48,21 1221 36jz2 o
3o !12 o 835 749 663 sso1
1 49S 418 339
31 ~4 834 747 662 579 497 416, . 337
32 48 833 746 66r 577 495 415 336
33 13 12 831 744 6.59 576 494 414 335
341 36 83o 74_
3lJESH 574 493 412 333
35 14 o 828 741 656 573 491 411 332
.:= - ---· . 1
-;6 ~4 827 74~1 6ss
37 48 825 739 654
3s 15 12 8~4 737 652
39 a6 8~2 736 6s1
40 16 0 821 734 649
41 ~4 8t9 733 64S
572
570
s69
568
566
s6s •
490
489
487
4R6
484
483
410
408
407
406
404
4°3
331
32 9
J28
J27
326
324
- __..-====!r
..
,,,-
..........=-.........
.,.---r--- --·1---1·--·n
42
43
44
45
46
48
17 12
36
18 ()
24
48
8J 81
816
• 815
814
8t2
8u
73 1
730
729
727
726
724
647 5631 482 402
645 562 48o 400
644 s61 479 399
642 559 478 398
641 sss 476 396
Ji40 557 475 395
323
322
J20
319
Jl8
316
,__..__1---n
1 47
_,__-..-.... _____,..,__,,__
I
. 48 19 ]2
49 36
so 20 0
51 24-
52 48
r: 3 2 z t a
I -
/ 809
8o8
8o6
8os
8o3
802
723
721
720
719
71 7
716
6J8 sss 474 394
637 554 472 392
6'35 552 471 391
·634 551 470 390
633 s;o 468 ass
6J1 548 467 387
315
J14
31 3
311
31C
JGS
___._-"'-'- --·--= .-...----:--........-.---r·---- ------1---:·----1
\-;-- 36 801
799
798
796
795
793
792
55 2i 0
56 24
57 48
58 23 12
159 36
_6~- ~ ()
714
7 13
711
710
.709
707
706
63o 547 466 g86
628 546 464 J84
627 54~ 463 383
626 543 462 J82
624 541 460 J8l
623 540 459 379
621 539 458 378
Digitized by Coogle
OF ASTROLOGY. 6n
L 0 G. I S T I C A L L 0 G A R I T H M S.
Minute S6 57 sS • I 59
--l--3-3--6-o--l--3-4-2~ -;~~~-;-54-o--r
-----1-------~---- --- ---
Time h. m. · h. m. h. m. h.
m. f. 22. 24 22 48 23 12 23
-o
1
2
2~- ~·----~~~ !"':"',---:~~ ,---::~ I ~~
48 297 220 145 71
12 296 219 143 69
, 3 I
------____,_________,______
4
5
6
218 142 . 68
2 0 216 141 67
215 140 66
214 139 64
7
_______,____,____,_~----
8 3 12
9 36
10 4 0
I 1
213
211
210
209
137
136
1 35
134
63
62
61
6o
.,___,_____,____------------11
12 48 284 2o8 132 58
13 5 12 283 , 206 IJI 57
14. 36 2R2 2o5 130 56
IS 6 0 280 204 129 55
----·----1----------r---------1-------1---------11
16 24 279, 202 127 53
17 4H 278 201 126 52
I 8 . 7 I 2 2 76 200 I 2 5 5I
19 36 215 199 124 so
-------t----------r---------1--------1--------:-----------
20 8 .
21
22
274
273
271
270
122
121
120
I 19
49
47
46
45
2 3 9
·~------~-------l------~-----~---------·1----------·------·----
24 36 269 192
25 10 0 267 191
26 24 266 190
117
116
115
114
27 48 265 1H9
·~---~-------~-----~~---------~---------1---------
28 1l 12 264 t87
29 36 262 t86
3o 12 o 261 18 5
No. 31. 7 L
112
111
110
39
38
--~-6 I
lJigillzea oy ~ ~ og e~
612 A N I L L u· S T It A T I 0 N
L o G I S T I C A L LOGARIT H M S.
:\finut~: s6 s7_l_s8 59
-
3360 3420 1 3480 354°
- - -
Time h. m. h. m. h. m. h. m.
m. f. 22 24 22 48 23 12 23 36
- - -
30 12 0 261 185 110 36
31 24 260 184 109 35
32
I
48 258 182 107 34
33 13 12 257 181 to6 33
I
. I
-;fj- 256
-
.34 i t8o 105
\
31 I
35 14 0 255 . - 179 104 30
"6 24 253 177 103 I 29
j
37 4H 252 176 101 28
- - -
38 IS 12 251 175 100 27
39 36 250 174 99 25
40 16 0 248 172 9.8 24
41 241 247 171 96 23
- -
42 48 246 170 95 22
43 17 12 244 169 94 21
44 36 243 t67 93 19
45 18 0 242 166 91 tH
- -
46 24 241 165 90 17
47 48 239 - 163 ~9 t6
48 19 12 23fl 162 I 8_8 IS
49 36 1 237 16I - I 87 I3
-
so 20
2~ I 235
I 160 I 85 12
51 234 zs8 84 II
52 48 233 157 83 10
53 21 12 232
~~~
82 8
- - -
54 J6 230 155 8o 7
55 22 0 229 153 79 6
s6 . 24 228
I
152 78 5
57 48 227 151 77 4
-· - -
I
ss 23 12 225 JSO 75 2
59
\ 24
36 224 1'48 74 I
6o 0 223 147 7-3 ,.Q
Di 1tized b' '-3\J' ':J
g y • gle
0 F A .5 T R 0 L 0 G Y.
USE of the foregoing Tables of LOGISTICAL LOGARITHMS.
EXAMPLE I.
Suppofe, in refped: of motion, it be required to find the true place of
Venus thirty-fix minutes before twelve o'clock at noon, on the t Ith of
June, 1784. The operation is to be performed in the following manner.
Refer to page 179 of this work, and take _the place of Venus for the
eleventh and tenth days at noon, which will be found to be, ·
On the eleventh day at noon in Gemini
On the tenth day in ditto
Subtratl: the lefs from the greater, and there re-
lnains the diurnal motion -
3 53
2 41
I 12
Then by the rule of proportion, if twenty-four ho-urs ·give one de-_
gree twelve minutes, what will thirty-fix minutes of time give ? Apply
to the tables of logiftipal logarithms; and in the firtl column at the top
feek one degree, and in the fidl: fide column on the left hand find t~elve
minutes; the logarithm anfwering thereto will be found in the common
angle of meeting, which will be - .. 16990
In the fame manner feek for thirty- fi~ minutes 2218
Which fubtratl, and there will remain
This number muft likewife be fought in the table~ but, as• none is found
anfwering thereto nearer than 1477, look in the -top column, and this lo-
garithm ftands under 2 min. and even with o in the left-hand column,
which !hews the motion of Venus in thirty-fix minutes of time to be
two minutes; and, if this be fubtracted from the place of Venus that day
at twelve o'clock, the remainder will be the true place of Venus at thir-
ty-fix minutes before noon, as required, viz. in five degrees five minutes
of Gemini. ·
E X A M P L E II. ·
In refpeft ~f time, let us admit the Moon in twenty-four hours tq
move thirteen degrees five minutes, and it be required to know what i$
her motion in five hours twenty minutes? proceed thus; feek on the top
of the table for thirteen degrees, and five minutes in the firft column on
the left hand, and in the angle of meeting take the logarithm 6614;
then, in the third column on the top of the table, feek five hours twenty
minutes, but, findi!lg only five hours twelve minutes, we mull: therefore
3 have
Digitized by Coogle
614 , A N I L L U S T R A T I 0 N
have recourfe to the fecond column on the left hand, and feek 8 under
the character of min. and even therewith, in the angle ofmeeting, will
be found 6s32
To which • add the above number 6614
And the fum will be I 3I 46
For Which look into the table, and it will be found to give two degrees
.fifty-four minutes, which is the motion of the Moon in five hours tWenty
minutes . )
EXAMPLE III.
. If a part proportional betwee.n two numbers be required, as for in-
.fiance the oblique afcenfion of Jupiter, in feven degrees thirty-fix mi-
nutes of Pifces, in one degree fouth latitude, under the ,elev.ation of the
pole of 51 deg. 32 min. then refer to the table of oblique afcenfion in
page s88; in the firfi: column of the' left hand feek eight degrees,_and
under one degree on the head of the table, in the angle of meeting, will
be found 352 r6
Take the oblique afcenfion of {even degrees, viz. 35 r so
---
And fubtraet the lefs from the gr<;ater, and there will
remain o 26
Then feek the logarithm of twenty•fix minutes in the firft colnmn on
the head of the table, and the logarithm of thirty-fix in the fame manner,
which are the minutes bdonging to Jupiter, and the logarithm to each
will be found as follows 3632
Ditto 2218
Thefe are to be added .together -
The number fought for in the logarithms, and will be found to give fif-
teen minutes fixteen feconds, which muft .be added to the oblique afcen-
fion of (even degrees of Pifces, viz. 3S I so o
Part proportional belonging to thirty-fix min. is o .1S 36
Added together gives the true obliqwe afcenfion of
Jupiter in feven degrees thirty-fix minutes of
Pifct$ 352 S 36
E X A M P L E IV.
To find the time of the conjunction or afpect of any of the Planets,
take firfi: the diurnal motion, and places of the planets on the day the af-
• In all proportional demands, if th~ firfl: term be twenty-four or fixty, you are to add the two
given numbers i but, if it fhould be the Cecond term, then you are to fubtraa.
pect
Digitized by Coogle
OF AST.ROLOGY. 6rs
peel: will happe·n, and, if the planets are both direCt or both retrograde,
Jet the )efs diurnal motion be fubtratl:ed from the greater J but, if one be
direct and the other· retrograde, add their diurnal motions together, and
the aggregate is the diurn:~l <"Xcefs. Then take the places of the planets
from the Ephemeris on the day preceding the afpect, and fubtratl the·
place of the planet that is fwiftefi: in motion from the place of that which
is flower, and the remainder is the difi:ance in longitude,; this had, the time
thereof will be obtained by the following analogy; as the diurnal excefs
is to twc:nty-four hours, fo is 'the planets to the time of the afpea.
A P R A X I S.
To find the· quartile of the Moon, and Saturn on the twelfth of jl1ne-, ·
1784. Proceed thus: Refer to page 179 of this work, and on the twelfth
day at noon the Moon will be found in nineteen degrees feventeen mi...
notes of Aries, and Saturn in twenty-two degrees fifty minutes of Cap-
ricorn, retrograde. The diurnal motion of the Moon is thirteen degrees
three: mir.utes~ and the: motitm of Saturn three minutes. Now, a~ Satum
is retrograde, his motion is to be added to the Moon's, and then the di-
urnal exccfs makes thirteen degrees twenty-one minutes, with which
enter the table of logarithms ; in ·the top column feek thirteen degrees,
and in the firfi: column on the left hand fide feek twcntv-one minutes, and
in th~ angle of meeting will be found - • - 6527
In the fame manner feek the log;trithm to the diff.:rence
of longitude, viz. three degred three minutes, which
will be 12279
Subtract the lei's from the greater, and there-
mainder is
With which number enter the logarithms, and on cafiing the eye up-
wards will be found in the third column from the top fix hours, and in
the fecond column on the left hand will be found twenty-two minutes
twenty-four feconds. Thus, it is evident, the Moon came to the fexlilc
of Saturn on the twelfth day, at fiX' hours twenty-two minutes and twen-·
ty-four feconds, P. M. or afternoon; a~d in the fame manner may be
found the conjunction of any other planet, or afpect. · .
RULES to be obferved in directing a NATIVITY.
In order to find the arch of the c:qu~tor that is interfeCl:ed between
the fignificator and promittor, which is commonly called the ar~h of di-
rection, i_t is neceffary 'to obferve,
No. 31. 7 M I. Whe-
•
Digitized by Coogle
6t6 AN ILLUSTRATION
I. Whether the fignificator be on the cufp of the fir~ or feventh houfe;
and,. if fo, fubtraCt: the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion of the fignifica-
tor, with latitude, if any, from the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion of
the promittor under the pole of the houfei and the remainder is the arch
of direction, w"'hich is to be turned into years by the table.
II. If a fignificator be in the tenth or fourth houfes, fubtraCt the right
afcenfion of the fignificator, with latitude, if any, from the right afcen-
fion of the promittor. and the remainder will be the arch of direction,
which is to be turned into years by the table.
III. If a fignificator· be not pofited in the afcendant or mid-heaven·, or
in the oppofite houfes, then find the pole of pofition of the fignificator,
and, according whether it be in an oriental or occidental part of the hea-
1cens, take the oblique afcenfion or defcenficn of the promittor, under
the fame pole, and the remainder is.the arcb of direction fought, which
turn into years as before.
IV. If it be required to direct the promittor to the fignificator, con-
trary to the fucceffion of • figns, then, inftead of fubtraeting th~ oblique
or right afcen.fion of the fignificator from the promittor, fubtratl the ob-
Jique or right afcenfion of the promittor from the fignificator, and the
remainder is the arch of direCtion. ·
V. If the promittor is to be dired:ea contrary to the fucceffion of figns,
and is fituated in the mid-heaven or fonrth houfe, fubtratl the right af.
ccnfion of the promittor, with latitude, from the right afcenfion of the
ftgnificator,- and the remainder is the arch of direCtion, to be turned in-
to years, &c. by the table.
VI. If a promittor be oriental or occidental above the earth or under
it, yet not in the mid-heaven or fourth houfe, feek its pole of pofition,
and thereby gain its true obllque afcenfion or defcenfion with latitude,
and fubtract it from·the oblique afcenfion or defcenfion of the 6gniiica.;.
tor under the fame pole, and the remainder·is the arch of direEtion · re-
quired.
VII. When any plane~ .is to he direCted to the oppofite part of the
heavens, it mull then be directed with oppofite latitude.
VIII. No planet, except the Sun and Moon, can be directed to either
.a fe.xtile, trine, or quartile, of its radical place•
.a The Sun and Moon, and Venus and Mercury, can only be direaed converCely, that is, con-
trary to the fucceffion of figns, they being the only planets capable of the rapt motion. ·
· IX. The
Digitized by Coogle
0 F A 5 T R 0 L 0 G Y.
IX. The Sun moves in the zodiac only, and meets all bodies or afpeCls
therein, it being his unalterable courfe, that is, without latitude; but,
when he is directed to a planet or ~odiacal parallel with latitude, it is
then calJed a direClion in mundo; but, when direCted to a planet without
latitude, it is termed a zodiacal direCtion, and is either direCt or converfe,
as the motion of the planet is either with, or contrary to,· the fucceffion
of figns. ·
X. The Moon meets all rays in the circle of latitude in which file
conftantly moves, and that is always out of the ecliptic, except when
lhe is in her nodes; and therefore, when fue is direQ:ed, ~s .a fignificator
with latitude, to a promittor in the zodiac, the latitude of the Moon's
place muft be found. Under this latitude, the declination muft be fought,
which thews the oblique afceofion or dtf<;enfion under the pole of the
Moon i arid hence the arch of direction is corref:Uy found, by fubtrad:.-
ing the oblique afcenfion or defcenfton of the Moon onder her pole, not
forgetting that this oblique afcen{ion or defcenfion muft be taken ac-
cording to the latitude of her place at the hour of birth. This is'called
a zodiacal direCtion with latitude; but, when tlie Moon is direCted to .aa
afped without latitude, the place of .the zodiac where the afped falls
is to be taken without latitude, both in right afcenfion and declination;
and thus find the oblique defcenfion or afcenfion of the point under the
pole of the Moon; from which fubtraCl: the oblique afcen1ioo or defcenfion
of the Moon, taken according to the latitude £he had at the time of birth,
and the arch of direction is found, which is to be converted into years as
before.
XI. Directions are of two forts; zodiacal and mundane. · The Sun and
Moon are capable of being directed both ways J but the angles of a figure
can only be diretled in mundo, they being {ubject to the accidents and
divifion of no circles, but thofe which conftitute the meafure of each
quadrant, and are meafured by the parts of the diurnal and feminotl.urnal
arches; therefore they never meet any rays with latitude but bodies .and
oppofitions.
XII. The mid-heaven and afcendant are two different • circles. The
mid-heaven meets all rays, and meafures all afpeCts by the zodiac; but the
afcendant, by the rapt motion or horary circle; by which motion the di-
urnal circle is alfo meafured, the houfes of heaven divided, and the mun..
dane afpeHs proportionably meafured.
. .
• The zodiacal circle meafures thirty-fix minutes to an hour, but the rapt motion, or horary cir-
cle, is fometimes more or lefs, according to the length of the femidiurnal arch or planetary hour.
·3 The
Digitized by Coogle
tl
•
611 AN ILLUSTRATION
-The knowledge of equating the planet's places for difr~rent meridians he-
ing abfolutely necdfary for calculating the nativities of rho1~ perfoos who
wc:re born under the meridian of London, for which· latitude the Ephe-
merifes are generally calcubted; I £hall now teach how to calculate ei-
ther the mundane or zodiacal direelions for any other latitude, and how
a planet in one meridian· may be reduced to that of another, with the ut-
moft degeee of correclnefs and precifion.
For example, fuppofe it were required- to know the- difference between
-the meridians of London and Brifi:ol; refer to page 179 of this worlc, and
on the 111h of June, at twelve o'clock at noon, the Moon is in five
degrc(!S forty-fix minutes of Aries, under the meridian of London ;
hut, to reduce it to the meridian of Bri!l:oJ, purfue the following method.
See by the table, page :zoB, the longitude of London, and it will be
found _ 23 26
Subtraa the longitude of BriftoJ, which is "19 41
And there remains 3 45
With this difference, t.hree degrees forty-five minutes, look into the table
for turning the degrees of the equator into time, in page 2o6; then refer
to table the fccond, by which it will be found, that one degree gives four
minutes; and confequently, three degrees forty-five minutes, the dif-
ference of the two longitudes~ mull give fifteen minutes difference of
time in two meriditns; and, as Britlol is fituate well from London, the
Moon muil be in five degrees forty-fix minutes of Aries, fifteen minutes
before _
noon at Britlol, and at noon, viz. at twelve o'clock accordin_g to
.her own motion in an _
hour, gives for that time, going at the rate of
thirty-three minutes forty-feven feconds the quarter of an hour, eight
minutes twcnty-feven feconds, which, being added to five degrees forty-
fix minutes, make five degrees fifty-four minutes and tvrenty-feven 1e-
conds of the Moon in Aries, at twelve o'clock at Briftol. And here note,
that, if the place were fituate eaft from LonQon, then the difference of time
muft have been fubtraded from the meridian of London, which would
in the fame manner have iliewn the difference of the meridians.
END of -the FIRST VOLUME.
Digitized by Coogle
19 ASTROLOGY.- ibley's (E) Complete Illustration of the
Astrological and Occult ciences; comprehending the
art of foretelling future events by the Heavenly bodies.
TVith numerous curious copper-plates, ~nd ativities and
incantations; portrait. 2 vols. 4to, 'half calf. caret.
1795
'
Digitized by Coogle
