{"name":"The Aberree (IAPSOP)","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/aberree","mytitle":"The Aberree (IAPSOP)","mylang":"de"}
  The Aberree (IAPSOP)        About   Archives   Practices   Contribute   Contacts   Search

 &nbsp; &nbsp;     Periodical:  The Aberree</I>      

    Summary:&nbsp;  From Pat Deveney's database:

 Aberree, The.
 The Non-serious Organ of "The Infinites," a Universe of Being as Unlimited as the Name Implies / Recusant Voice of "The Infinities" for Earth, Mars, Venus, Saturn, Pluto, and Zydokumzrushkehen.
 Don't take it so damn seriously
 1954-1965  10 issues a year; at the dark of the moon, 6 to 12 moons a  year
 Phoenix, AZ, then Enid, OK.  Publisher: Agnes Johnson Hart, WFE, H.Kpr., SEC, etc. (wife, housekeeper, secretary, etc.).  Editor: Alphia Hart, HDA, HCA, B. Scn., F. Scn / Rev. Mr. Dr. Alphia Omega Hart, I-2, D.D., D.Scn., F. Scn., B. Scn., HDA, hCA, et al ad infinitum ad nauseum.
 1/1, April 1954-11/10, March 1965.  4-20 pp., originally typed and mimeographed and then printed, $1.67-$2.00 a year.

 This began as the 'zine of dissident Dianeticists/Scientologists who objected to the transformation of the loosely organized psychological techniques originally taught by L. Ron Hubbard into an authoritarian religion.  Hart had been an early follower of Hubbard and worked for the Hubbard Association of Scientologists then located in Phoenix and edited the Journal of Scientology.  He began to be disillusioned when an advanced course for "eligible" students (i.e., those with $800) failed to let him achieve "theta clear" and he (and many others) objected to the new religious and rigid organization of Hubbard's movement.  Hart colorfully described the changes: "The blue jeans and the bearded faces that showed self-determination and marked the early Dianeticist have given ground to charcoal black suits and medallions that compete with the ancient battle shields for size and design."  He was fired from the HAS and began this journal in Phoenix and then moved it to Enid, Oklahoma, where it became the clearinghouse for the complaints and discussions of dissident Dianeticians who, while rejecting what Scientology had become, still largely adhered to the techniques and ideas originally expounded by Hubbard.  The journal's title, Hart said, was a "defiant, tongue-in-cheek play on the word 'aberration' . . . to set the style and pace of what the magazine would be - were it to continue - fearless and non-conformist."  The journal continued to be a mine of information on the inner workings of Scientology until well into the 1960s but over time it also became the repository of comments on and advertisements for the myriad occult, New Thought, New Age, and fringe mages, movements and interests of the 1950s and early 1960s: Count Korzybski, Wilhelm Reich's Orgone, peyote, LSD (in 1954), LSD, A.E. Van Vogt and his wife Mayne, Aleister Crowley, Divine Science, Edgar Cayce, Max Freedom Long, physical immortality (Oloneticism), dietary regimes, mental healing, psychometry, astral travel, UFOs, questions on the sensitivity of plants, the tarot, the Lakhovsky Generator, Mystic Circle tapes, the Hypnotic Oscillator, a Cosmic Consciousness Machine (built on the turntable of a 78 rpm record player), Harold W. Percival, planchettes, Magic Magnetic Mirrors, services for recovering Past Life Memories and and finding Soulmates, methods and machines for achieving clairvoyance and telepathy, etc.  While the journal claimed in the 1960s to have a paying subscription of 1,150, it can scarcely have provided the Harts a living and they seem to have survived by running a lending library and letter service and doing job printing.  Regular contributions in the early issues by Professor Hilton Hotema and by Volney Mathison, an early science fiction writer and inventor of the electropsychometer, which became the E-meter of Scientology after a long series of fights between Hubbard and Mathison.  The journal regularly commented on science fiction and its relationships with the various movements featured in the journal and even carried a science fiction story by Mathison, "Galaxy T-8 Patrol Blocks Death Ray," whose details emerged, Mathison wrote, in an auditing session with Hubbard that "caused me to disclose - theta-wise - both to him and to myself, that I am one of the principal inventors of a weapon allegedly styled as a 'Facsimile One' machine, which I first developed in the T-8 Galaxy 42 trillion years ago, and which, as a member of the Eighth Invader Corps, I used 20 trillion, two and one-eighth years later to take over an entire system of planets in the Arcturus Area."  UCLA; University of California at San Diego.

 These materials, and more information about the , can be found at The Compleat Aberree's web site.      Issues:The Aberree Volume 1: April 1954-March 1955 The Aberree Volume 2: April 1955-March 1956 The Aberree Volume 3: April 1956-March 1957 The Aberree Volume 4: April 1957-March 1958 The Aberree Volume 5: April 1958-March 1959 The Aberree Volume 6: April 1959-March 1960 The Aberree Volume 7: April 1960-March 1961 The Aberree Volume 8: April 1961-March 1962 The Aberree Volume 9: April 1962-March 1963 The Aberree Volume 10: April 1963-March 1964 The Aberree Volume 11: April 1964-March 1965      </p>

  
IAPSOP materials are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License. 
 IAPSOP respects people's privacy and personal data rights.             </HTML>

[1] http://iapsop.com/archive/materials/aberree