{"name":"A Communication Given To Joanna In Answer To Mr Brothers Last Book","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1802__southcott___a_communication_given_to_joanna_in_answer_to_mr_brothers_last_book.pdf","mytitle":"A Communication Given To Joanna In Answer To Mr Brothers Last Book","mylang":"de"}
'■
r*1 r
. A
• %
COMMUNICATION
• GIVEN TO JOANNA,
In Ansiver to Ma. Brothers’s last Book, published
* the End of this Year, 1802.
»
• . . t
p •
’ .MYheart was deeply* wounded .te hear read the
blasphemy of this last book; as he makes' God to
.be the author of the temptations to Eve; Speaking
•through the serpent with a He; and then to pro­
nounce a curse on the serpent for obeying his voice;
and also a curse on the man for listening to what the
Lord had said. This blasphemy filled me with hor-
*ror.' But I was answered in the following manner:—
• _ _ As the sun is too strong for thy eyes, so is the
truth too’"
strong for thy senses: for, when they
■
brought thee strong progfeof the truth of thy wri­
tings, thou couldest not look into it. but withdraw
.thyself; pondering in'thy heart, if all was not <r
'delusion. As I said he was the prophet Jonah, for
Mvhdtn I ordered thee to write, that he might be
freed: and thou sayost in thy heart, ‘l will the Lord
-.free such.a mattes'.he, that hath so condemned Jiis_
God, and screened the devil, and who is making
A
- *
Digitized by Google
4 v
the' Lord worse than the devil, speaking in- the
serpent? first to tempt the Woman,— and then, for
obeying his voice, pronounced the greatest curse upon
him, above every living creature; and after, pro­
nounce a curse upon man for a sin that the Lord
tempted him to commit! Here he hath made his
Got! both the author and finisher o f every evil,
unholy, unjust; both the liar and the murderer!
and all my bible made false ; and judged his God
as a knave and fool, as speaking after the manner o£
men. First, to draw the serpent into sin, by
shewing myself in the serpent, speaking through
him ; that is full of deadly poison: then I must be
o f that nature! and as soon as I made man, whom
I pronounced good, to come in the form o f a
serpent to make him ev il! Then I must act like a
, man, to present you with a glass of wine, and put
poison in it, saying, “ I made it good, but put poison
to make it bad;” then where must the death be
alluded to, but to him who mixed the poisou with
his wine ? In this manner he has set forth his God to
the world,— what men call a complete knave. In
the second place, he hath made me a complete fool:
. to pass sentence of death on Mr son for the reme­
dy, and all m s followers to die with him, for
crimes that I templed him to ! O ye mad men anti
fools ! how do ye judge your God ! confess the
Woman true, or fatal now will it be for you all that
deny her words. “ I said I had left the man to
shew you Satan, and his every p l a n H e came
to the Woman, and found nothing in her, he then
went to the Man in the same disguise; and as he had
tried to turn the scriptures, and deceive the woman,
to cast all the. blame on the Lord, but could n ot; so
now he hath gone to the man, anil worked on him to
blind his eyes, to cast all on his Maker, making
his God, as the fallen angels did, worse than the
devil!
2
Digitized by Google
Because ’twas I who made man at the first, * .
And like the serpent then you say I burst,
With nought but poison in my mouth appear;
Then now I tell you, you shall feel my spear.
If like the devils, now, you judge your God,
Then like the devils you shall feel my rod
With indignation on your heads to turn ;
For like an oven shall my fury burn,
If you do not confess the Woman true.
1 Uft the man the devil's words to shew,
How he by every art doth work in man.
Had 1 not gave the Woman to his hand,
Satan would sought out man, andfound a way,
His innocence, like her’.*
, he*d sooiabetray ;
And then upon his God he’d cast the blame.
And said from me he knew the voice did come
Ant! so the man could not be%
good alone.
And now I ask you how I cnuld atone
For any crimes so artfully laid on me ?
And by such arts they nail'd me to the tree.
Then tor such arts I never could atone ;
It is the Woman's innocence alone,
That cast her guilt upon the serpent’s head,
And so 1 died, her innocence to plead,
That from the serpent I would set her free,
And he should bear his blame as well as me.
.But will men say, that I betray’d at first.
And like the serpent I to ber did burst ?
Then like the serpent I must now become.
And Satan claim this kingdom all his ow n;
And you, like fallen angels, must appear
Join'd with the devil now, I tell you here ;
Because the serpent you have now made me ;
The second timeyou’ve nail’d m e lo the tree !
And all my wounds you boldly open here.
You say I am the serpent and the spear,
So full of poison that did come to man!
And like the devil now you’ve laid your plan ;
To have the kingdom, and call it your own,
And me and all my heirs for to unthrone !
Because the serpent now you make of me,
Where the great curse was then pronounc’d to be:
And so you bring it on my guiltless head!
For like the devil now is all vour plead :
And s6 I see man is not good alone.
I’ll save the woman, and I’ll save my own,
Tnat with the woman they do now agree,
To cast the serpent, and their Maker free;
And say, the poisonous serpent came from hell;
3
Digitized by Google
r *
4
And fjtmtji tliei devil every lie tlicn fell ;*
And now the woman’s seed do strong appear,
T o p rove the serpent was the devil there ;
And noii I see the enmity is plac’d ; .
By Solaris arts the woman now is cast;
And, by my wisdom—man is cast the same, . %
To prove that wrong his Maker he does blame;
Because I let the devil speak in man.
To Shew you Satan, and his every plan, *
How with such arts he does mankind deceive ;
And therefore madly do mankind believe*;
Nor of their judgment they do not discern,
Nor in what manner I to thee do warn.
But now hip rflad believers do appear,
In words qf madness they no way can dear ;
Unless they now will turn the woman’s friend,
Confess their.folly,—to my sceptre bend ;
And with the woman's seed they'll now agree.
No other wav preserved man can be;
Because high treason they’ve pronounced here ;
Made me the serpent for to feel my spear !
Because the voice by whkh you were betray’d,
I tell thee now must fall up-.n his head :
Or else your bibles you must give the lie*
The woman’s seed will bruise his hedcl this way ;
And with the woman’s seed I now shall join.
I see old Adam now appear in man,
Upon your Maker for to cast the bkqne;
And that’s the way I’ll put you all to shame;
And if that way the prophet do appear,
I tell you, soon he’ll feel the furious bear :
For that’s the way he never sha^l turn back ;
The bear shall meet him, and his bones shall break ;
And he shall never see the promis’d land! .
The woman’s seed must every bliss command,
And ’tis by her that you must all be free :
She cast her blame on SATAN, not on me :
And in the end she now hath done the same.
Here’s Eve and Adam, as at first they came :
And now 1 tell you to weigh deep the fall;
For now the woman’s seed shall conquer all !
For now my h e e e they’ve surely bruis’d it hero,
To say a serpent I at first appear'd :
Then now I tell them I shall bruise his head.
You say my prophet did so wrongly plead ;
Then sure like Balaam he does now appear;
The simple ass reproves his madness here,
To tell you all, my sword is in the way,
I’ll send my angels, and your prophet slay,
Digitized by Google
c ' 5
If in this maimer you do still go on.
Ajw
I jiow {tell thee.wht 1 threaten'd man:
If, that the prophet th e/n o way would tfec,
Partakers of his sins they surely b e;
And on their.head* I,say will fall his guilt.
A Jonah's angeris in Brothers' felt 1
Far UPlP «ngef be,hath provok'd his God ;
Because that man hath laid m him such rod.:
So all together tills will tall on man*
r Once more I tell you all, the sword is drawn ;*
Therefore to justice he ought to appear,
And answer tor himself, the whole to clear :
Whether such writings e'er came from his hand.
And in what planner he did them command.
1 For prophecies can in no way appear,
But by my gospel, as Pvc told you here ;
That as the rtistljn£ 9f the winds do come,
Ye Jbear the sound, tut never can discern .
From whence it came,* npr whither it do go ^
But try the spirits^ and tfie truth you'll know f
And here the.spirit jf do bid men try, ..
And then yop’llknow if it came from GOD on high !
But thieves and robbers ^ou must all appear,"
If you another nay will enjter here,* . , . .
Than by the touchstone of my perfect word ;
Then try the spirit for to know' your God.
“ Now I shall cora'q to the purpose all men.
Prophecieshave ceased, in the maloner they were given
to the prophets of old, ever since my copying into
tire world. For then I .told them fhe^ ihould he
warned by the inward moving o f my. Spirit: and
by words being given, like the sound o f the wind,
that ye know not from whence it cometh,. or whither
it goetli; so would th£ Spirit visitthose to whom
he is sent. -But it is wfittqn,;by my.apostle, *• be­
lieve not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they
are of God or not.” . Then ye must try them by
the touchstone of inr words for, lie, that cometh
any other way, than is said in my gospel, is a thief
and a robber: ami like a thief and a robber hath he
put this last ’book in print; for they have robbed
he of my honour, and wrested the scriptures to their
own condemnation, and all mankind. If they make
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
me the serpent, all men are lost for ever; and there
can be no redemption for man. The promise was
made for man’s redemption, when the-woman’s seed
shall bruise the serpent's head; and the curse fall
on him above every man. The curse pronounced
on the seipcnt, as a beast, is but a type and shadow o f
the-devil: having no feet, fneaneth, Satan shall have
no footing here on earth, after his head is braised by
the Seed of tire Woman.
6
For 'tis the woman's conquering seed
Musi break and bruise the serpent's head;.
.And all his footing take away,
That now so close to man does lay;
For like the dragon now he's found,
And fast his feet to man abound,
1 say, to tempt to every ill,
To fie, to murder, men to kill;
- To pride, to envy, and debate.
He now hath got the dragon's feet;
But when his head is bruised here,
And I turn back on him his spear;
Then like the serpent he’ll become,
.And have no foot to stand upon;
Because his feet I'll take away.
And now, O man, hear what I say*:
The serpent he does lose his skin,
And here's a shadow deep for him ;
For so he now shall lose the whole ;
The serpent's skin fortells hisfall*
To circumcision next I'll come,
A thing I order'd to be done.
For man his wisdom he must lost,
When I begin to pay the cost;
And his foreknowledge take away ;
In circumcision all will lay,
And say their knowledge was not good;
They lost their wisdom as it stood ;
Ana then the mysteries you'll see clear.
The type's in nature placed here:
The moon is turned into blood,
And Satan's drowned in the flood;
The serpent's skin is Satan's fall;
Fie lost his footing, skin, and all:
For all this kingdom he will leave;
His skin behind shews he deceiv'd,
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
When here on earth he did appear ;
But like the skin, I tell you here,
You’Msee his body to be lost,
And say the serpent now is cast.
As from the Woman does appear,
Men’s wisdom hath deceiv’d them here;
For circumcised they must become, .
In heart and life, their wisdom gone,
That they profess'd to have before.
Weigh deep the words, I’ll say no more;
But with the Woman make an end ;
Because to nature all must bend :
And 1 have told you, by my blood,
1
*
1
1cleanse all nations in the flood :
That on the serpent all is cast,
And here’s the end, for all must burst.
7
“ Foras the serpent has no feet, and loseth his skin;
he is a type of the devil, that shall lose his footing
and power here on earth ; and shall run away, leaving
nothing.behiud that can hurt; only -shewing to man,
by his works, that he hath been here; as the ser­
pent sheweth you hy his empty skin, that lie hath
been where it is found, but no appearance of his
body near it :—this is a clear type of the Devil’s de­
struction, Circumcision is a clear type to m an: he
must be circumcised in heart and life, leaving all the
foreknowledge he had before of his own, and come
to the second resurrection from the dead: the first
dyeth, but the second quickeneth. Circumcision in
man is a sure sign to him that the fall shall be taken
a\yay from man, and be shall be quickened by my
Spirit. Circumcision is a. type of man’s redemption ;
the serpent is a type of Satan’s destruction; and the
w o m a n is a type ot m e , whose blood was shed tor
all men, to bring the fruits of the spirit to man ; for
as it is in nature, so it is in grace. The woman’s seed
must bruise the serpeut’s head. Now tlvj enmity is
placed between the woman’s seed and the man, who
is under the influence of the devil, to cast a lt on his
Maker, as Adam d id: but know, that in Adam all
Digitized by Google
died, and in Christ ye axe all .made aUyp; and that
that promise was made through the woman’s seed.
So he that looks for redemption in and through sir.
bi.ood must look to the woman phexe the type lias
stood!
8
For there’s no other way that ye can come#
But by the shceptbld as ’us plac’d for man;
And now old Adam does so strong appear,
I say, in Brothers, and his followers here.
That do so madly now wilh him believe.
With pride and envy Satan them deceiv’d,
To cast the guilt upon the Woman’s head ;
For just like Adam now is all their plead ;
The Woman and their Maker both they blame.
And now, O men, I’ll put you all to shame.
1 said that Brothers broke the ground all through ;
The heavy-loaded waggons so did-go.*
I said that Adam brought on it a curse ;
I said that Brothers would the same produce,
If in the prison you keep him alone:
His heavy load to me is surely known.
Loaded with sorrow*, and his load is sin :
He left his God, when man did him condemn {
And so like Adam He did fly from me.
And Satan closely then did follow he; .
And now my judgments he is pulling down.
His sins and sorrows soon will break the ground,
Ttell you all, to bring on Adam’s curse ;
For in the prison doth his angdr burst.
And now I’ll tell the mystery of the dream :
Thou read’st it o’er, but cannot see it plain ;
That on a hill of prophecies you stand.
A hill is high where }ou survey the land :
And different plaees on a hill you « e }
And different knowledge in you all must J>e:
When by my Spirit I do lift you up,
You see all round you; and you see and hope,
Thai ail these truths from me you can command :
And on the hill the waggons all did stand.
But well thou know’st thou goest a different way.
And now, O man, give ear to what I say:
J said that Brothers* waggon went before,
And broke the ground, which made thee look and fear.
And now the fu lness of the time is come;
If men of learning could the thing discern :
"• fk*e Strange Effects of Faith, page 60.
Digitized by L . o o Q [ e
They’d see that Brothers broke the ground aH through*
And the creation’s deep before you view.
For in the prison standsthe manalone,
And he like Adam unto mb was known ;
For to that man myself I bad reveal’d,
But took a bone that was from him conceal’d ;
Like Eve and Adam, but I plac’d apart,
To try them both, when Satan fix’d his dart:
To see their conduct how they’d both appear*
And the creation I have now brought here,
That all may plainly see the different road;
And different foot-steps by them both are trod ;
The man hathVast his blame upon his God,
The author of his guilt and fix’d the rod
To fall upon his Makeh all alone,
Begun by Adam, and went an by man ;
And now fromman this is the end, you see
A Jonah’s anger, and condemning me !
And all mankind, I say, they do the tame;
Mb and my bible they throughout do blame;
And just like Brothers they do aU appear !
And now the mountains, I do tell them here.
That I will surely bring them to a plain.
And here’s the perfect meaning of thy dream.
For'now the wheel-ruts they shall all go deep,
As with the waggons all the ground did sink;
And now 1 tell thee, all shall sink before :
He’th broke the ground, like Adam now appears:
And now the ground is cursed for his sake ;
<For like his anger 1on men shall break,
If they don’t call him to a just account;
Shew him his sins, and how they all amount,
To pull down vengeance from the Goo of H catch*
Confess his guilt that he may be forgiven:
Because the ground he now hath broke all through.
The ways of men throughout are in my view ;
Andjust like Brothers they do all appear:
That is the reason thou didst look and fear,
That all’s infusion, or some idle dream:
Because my Bible ’tis so wrongly plac’d
By men, a* wrong as Brothers plac’d the fall;
And here’s the waggons laden for you all,
That by my anger 1shall crush all through,
If men somindly do roy bible shew.
For just like Brothers cfomankind appear,
Make me the Bar and the murderer here !
Forall my bible they do give the lie.
And VrTougly plac’d ray prophet’s prophecy,
B
9
Digitized by Google
As wrong ns Brothers he did fclace the fall,
And said from ms he had the knowledge all!
But he shall know in it I never spoke ;
But as an angel SATA N came ana mock'd ;
As unto Eve be did with lies appear,
So the man he now hath entered there;
Confirm'd the lie, to cast it oil his G od.
Tremble, O man ! Solan shall feel my rod ;
Because fromfirst to last the lies he told:
But now in roan the serpent is more bold;
Because the blame he’th cast it all on hig h,
And loaded man with every infamy.
To make my fury on mankind appear,
I'll bring the mountains with the vallies here;
And all their lofty wisdom I'll bring down.
Deep are the wheel-ruts now by Brothers found;
Deep are the sorrows he would bring oti men,
Had I not sav'd them by the Woman's hand! *
I say, to help you out of every guilt.
And well thou knowest the fear by thee was felt;
When all my honour he had so pull'd down,
In blasphemy thou see'st his pen was found.
And thou didst fear then farther on to go.
That some delusion soon would bring thee low ;
As Brothers' folly thou saw’s! go before,
The prophet high in the deep ruts appear'd,
And all the ground before him it did. sink,
A^d 50 thou sawest destruction near the brink ;
So in confusion thou didst stand amaz’d,
And on his ruins thou didst stand and gaze ;
And so to follow thou didst stand and fear.
Before my. Spir it strong in thee appear’d,
And press'd thee on, and shew'd thee that die way,
1low all ll»e wheel-ruts did before him lie,
By Satan’s aits so high to load the man.
He shew’d his r6ck was placed on the sand, .
Ilia! was notfirm ; a load it cannot bear :
And now, ye mountains, you must all take care.
Or else, like Brothers, you will all fall down ;
Your sandy mountains will too soon be found ;
Like Brothers’ wisdom you do all go through :
He built upon the sand, and so do you;
For by his weight of. folly, all may see,
He’s pulling down of vengeance now from me !
I said together all they would pull down;
You read my words, but never judge the sound*
How both together 1 that time had plac’d ;
Then surely Brothers must join with the rest*
10
Digitized by Google
And so the vision you may new see plaip,
Hourall the mountains they must soon comedown.
But thou go on* and I'll direct the way:
I know the waggon’s laden now for thee,
And fast l know that ah is hastening on,
And so the horses will upon thee come;
Therefore I tell thee thou canst not draw back;
7 haresunk the others, and they'llfed the wrack ;
Unless their folly they’ll look back and see,
T h sunk in them as ’twas foretold by mb.
M% the two waggons are meant the wisdom of the
world, and the wisdom of Brothers and his followers,
whom Satan hath laded with indignation against thee.
The high hill is the height of their own wisdom ; for
every man’s ways are clean in his own eyes ; but I,
the Loan, weigheth the spirits. Now these two are
gone before thee, both sinking to the ground; fbr
soon they’ll find all their footing gone to the bottom;
and every mark of their wisdom washed away. The
wisdom of the learned fills thee with fear. They sa^
there is no God, that hath knowledge and power, as it
is recorded in holy writ, only a confusion of spirits
that are invisible; so they visited the prophets, and
they visited thee; this is one of the waggons that is
gone before thee, that will soon sink to tire bottom;
and their high hills will soon become a low valley,
and all be washed away. As this is one of the wag-
gons that is gone before; now cometh tire other, that
is so heavy laden, which is Brothers in prison ; he is
heavy laden with- the burden of his own mind ; be
iog in prison, the powers of darkness work hard upon
him, to load him with pride and envy against tnee,
fearing he sj^ll not be worshipped above all men on
earth, if thy prophecies are believed, that I am
coining to redeem ail men, and make them heirs of
tiod, joint heirs with myself, and reconcile the
world unto God, and give great gifts unto men.
Then he knows he must fall from that height he has
Stood in his own wisdom, and fall while others wilt
11
Digitized by Google
rise. For I shall not bring in my kingdom to raise ‘
one to be a prince, and the rest to be his subjects. N o !
ye must come every man in his order. The first
fruits must come first, and possess the land that I shall
give them; and they must become kings and priests
unto God. Then how can one man be the king
alone ? O ye simple and unwise ! Did I die to re­
deem one m aiv and exalt one man alone above
all mankind P Then where is my love to all tr.enr
This height of building must fall to the ground, and
sink like the waggons that went to the bottom, and
brought the mountains to a valley. Thus he hath
lifted himself up as a prophet almve all men, that
ever were, or ever should be. As I'told thee he
was, thou sawest his fall by his writings, and began
toje a r, as be was sinking, thou shouldest sink also, to
bear any testimony of him, when thou sawest himasa
prophet, come to prophecy by the devil; there,
thou sawest the waggon sink, the high hill broken
down, ami the man appeared no pmpher before thee,
and fears began to alarm thee ; but know, my Spirit
is always with thee, to guide and guard thee, to
keep and direct thee: thy waggon, thou knowest,
went in a different road from the other tw o; anti in
a different road they shall all find it. For thy road
is not like their road ; thy path is not like their path;
for they, likp Brothers, are going on the road of de­
struction ; but thy road is the road to redemption
and salvation, to be saved according to the pro­
mises made in my bible, with an everlasting salva­
tion ! Here is thy road, different from the other
roads; and here is my sp ir it to diicpt thee, and
my cjiosen men are the horses coming close upon thee;
$o 'thou camt not stand still nor go back: for in
thy dream thou hadst the reins of the horses in
thy hand, and thou couldest not get it out; and now
' thou hast led them bv the reins of my s p ir it ; thou
» ••• “ » i • __
12
Digitized by Google
as the horses that are joined to the team ate close
upon thee, to go forward, and thou must go before
them, it is my spirit pressetb you all forward, as
thou art going a different road from man.
13
And in a different road I've laid my plan:
And with the waggon thou went safely through.
The road behind thee thou dost little know,
Whether the wheels did break the ground or not
But now I tell thee plain what is the lot ~
Of every man that don't believe in thee;
1 tell them plain, they don't believe in me :
And like the wheel-ruts they will all tall down,
From Brothers* book let all men judge the sound ;
1 said that Brothers broke the grounu all through:
And now Jet all men judge what 1 shall do
To every soul, that does reject thy hand ;
In Adam's death I say they all do stand !
for just like Brothers do mankind appear.
Wrest all the scriptures to their ruiu here;
And like his waggons they will surely sink.
And find destruction now is near the brink.
And here's the perjcct meaning of the dream *
Let men of learning wake and see it plain ;
For all their wisdom I shall wash away.
Here's Eve and Adam both before you lie;
And back to the creation now you'll come :
Join with the Woman, or I'll tell your doom;
That you will surely die in A d am 's/ qII.
You know the Woman's seed must conquer all,
Or else to my bible you must give the lie
From first to last: and hear what John,did say,—
The spirit and the bride do bid you come.
Weigh deep my bible, O ye sons of men!
And thena prophet Jonah you may see :
He blam'd his God, and angry seem'd to be;
And perfed so does Brothers now appear ;
Weigh deep his books, his anger you'll see clear:
And back to Adam I do bid you come;
His nakedness must now be seen by man,
And nought but fig-leaves do to you appear,
He’th sew'd together—SATAN’* arts were there.
But different clothing he must now put on ;
The fruit asunder hath been broke by man:
And from the evil I'll the woman free,
Because her blame she did not cast on me.
Digitized by Google
■ - - From fiM T to last* then judge the woman’s hand:
But in old 4dam doth the mad prophet stand ;
And this thou know'sl I told thee of before,
• Though by his friend the word did not appear.*
But now 1 tell thee every man's hit foe.
To see his nakedness, and will not shew
What leaves together nc has sew'd up here.
That every one to pieces I shall tear.
For different clothing you must all put on :
He shew'd you plain the patch'd up leaves of roan/
When on his Maker he did cast nis guilt;
And anger in his heart was surely felt;
Against the Woman Satan made it burn ;
And perfect so old Adam now doth turn;
And now I say I'll turn it back on man.
If with the woman you'll not valiant stand*—
i Condemn the serpent, and your M aker free,.
Then your redemption you shall gain in ml.
So in one sheet these lines they roust appear
In public print, and then I say stop there;
No farther than one sheet thou now shall go.
And then the meaning you shall surely know.
As the two thieves with ml on Calvary died,
The one condemn'd, the other humbly cried,
That merev on him I should surely talcc ;
And now the likeness in mankind doth break :
The one with boldness does condemn his God,
And there I say they'll surely feel my rod ;
The other frees m e, and for mercy call,
That in my kingdom I'll remember all:,
And in my kingdom, I do tell you here,
I do remember, and your guilt I’ll clear ;
And you in Paradise shall surely come,
•And be with me in spirit both as one ;
That is, in spirit I’ll join with mankind,
Who look to me the serpent now to bind ;
And then a Paradise I’ll make for all,
That humbly now confess their every fall. *
14
“ Now I shall come to the two thieves on thecross.
He that condemned m e called for miracles to save
m y s e l f and himt though a thief; but the other up-
• In the Book of the Dispute with the Powers ofDarkness theword wasomitted
by Joanna's friend, who, contrary to tlie instructions, in thisone instance, *as not
obedient, as it was hia duty to be. N /
Digitized by Google
braided Atm foMt, and humbly nrayed for mercy;
and mercy I granted him ; and satu, he should be with
me in Paradise. Now here are the two different
men; the one upbraiding, and-calling for miracles,
to be saved in the midst of their scorn and contempt;
the other believed without miracles ; and I shall save
them as I did the thief; and like the thief they shall
find me their Saviour and R edeemer, ami they
sliall have a paradise here on earth. Now I tell
thee why I threatened the parliament, if they did not
free Brotliers from prison; because I knew, by his
being alone, Satan was working strong within him,
and it will befa ta l for man, if he is not freed, and
brought forth, to answer for his last book, by what
spirit it was written; and they will see whether he is
in his senses or not. •
From Adam’s fell I tell them now their lot;
For hasty now he’s bringing death on all,
■ That don’t reprove the madness of his fell;
Because with lies he’s forg’d the name of God;
He wrote from Satan every word he said.
So now to men I say they’ll tremble all,
If they from prison don't the prophet call;
For on their heads he's bringing now the curse.
Like Sampson’s fury, when his eyes were lost.
Though in the ruins he did perish there,
He slew his foes, and all alike did share:
The stately buildings he did then pull down;
He and his enemies fell to the ground.
And now I tell thee Brothers is the same j
He’th shook the pillars, and despised my name;
And so myJudgments he will now puli down ;
They’ll fina a Sampson’s in the prison bound.
And pulling vengeance on the heads of all.
Once more I tell you here is Adam’s fall;
And the last error much worse than the first.
Like Sampson's temple wHl your ruins burst,
If that to justice they don't take the-man,
And let him answer tor what he hath done.
By Satan's arts came every word he spoke.
And Satan strongly in the man did mock,
To cast the blame upon the Lor d o u H k i h ;
Just as he came to Eve and told the lie.
15
Digitized 6y C j O O ^ 1 0
Bui new f tell thee I will free the man,
Jf he’ll corifess-lic wrote by S{ITAbVhancf,
Ancfevery word there in he now will blame,
I’ll free the man,- and Satan put to shame ;
But rf in confidence he still goes on,
Then his last errurj must to all be known,
Worse than thefirst; 1 say, in Adam'sfall,
He and his followers they must perish all.
But offer'd mercy I shall give him free,
Before my judgments Til pronounce on he:
But on the serpent there shall come the curse
Of Jezebel; for now HE cannot miss.
Because the truth to me is surely known,
And he shall find my vengeance now shall come ;
Because the serpent he hath made of me,
That came to Eve with murder, and the lie !
And now like Jezebel he doth appear,
Who stole the seal to murder Naboth there;
And so, like her, he now hath stole my name, ♦
. And so, like her, he w
on? shall feel my flame
Of heat and anger ? it shall surely burn.
Upon his guilty head his lies I’ll turn :
And now like her I tell him he shall fall,
H c ’th stole my nam e, 1 tell you one and all."
This is the answkii of the Lord, to prove that
the last book, printed in the name o f Itichard Bro­
thers, was written under the influence of the devil,
who hath cast the blame always on the Lord, from
lirst to last.
*I am ordered to add to what has been before
written, to prevent an oath being taken, and so
will the Lord add to all our knowledge, that in
the end, all oaths may be done away, and our Savi­
our’s words be verilied,— “ Swear not at a ll!”
, And here I shall add the answer of the Lord to
Mr. Brothers’s saying,— “ The Lord leadeth us into
temptations.” “ Am I man, to be threatened?” Was
I to answer such prayers as lie made, and such mur­
muring and complaining, I should teach men to sin,
and lead them, into temptations; for this is the per­
fect meaning of mv words —wo man hath changed
. 16
Digitized by Google
1km* I said, they should pray*not to -be led into
temptation; and was I to answer prayers o f mur­
muring against me, when ye are buj-thened with the
cruelties of one another, I should lead you all into
temptation; and, instead of humbly praying, that I
will deliver you out of all your evils, ye would be
full of murmuring and complaining against your God,
for every cruelty that was done by m an; and ye
would charge your God foolishly. Did I not destroy
the children of Israel, when they murmured in the
wilderness? But-had I delivered them by their
murmuring, 1 must lead men into temptation; and
all men'in affliction, instead of praying, that I would
deliver them out of their evils and sorrows, they
would be murmuring and complaining, and com*
mitring sin, that they might be freed'from sorrow;
and, by such deliverance, I should lead them as
much into temptation as the devil leads men to
jm themselves out of sorrows, by thieving, stealing,
murder, and every other evil. If they want money
he places this evil remedy before them. So some
an themselves out of sorrows for a short time, tiU
a greater evil cometh upon them. And was I tq
deliver a man, because he murmureth against me,
I should lead all men into temptation the same.
How then could I justify man, that I had made
a better race tnan the fallen angels were?
How could I justify man in the day of judg­
ment, and condemn the devil and the fallen an­
gel, to chain him down in the great dat,
with all his hellish host, for ever? How. coaid I
give to man a never-fading crown, and fill him
with joy unspeakable, and full of gloiy, seated
with me in- my Father’s kingdom, with angels
and archangels in the very' height of happiness,
that no time could diminish, nor any enemy ever
• Joanna thooghk the words—" lend os not into temptation," had been changed
from the words—1
4leave us," &c.
C
17
Digitized by G o o g l e
destroy, if they had not shewed their love to me,
and died for m e , as I have died for them? And
how could I now bring in iny kingdom of peace for
man, and destroy all the works of the devil, if be
did not stir up men one against another, setting men
against those who are looking for m e and my king­
dom ? This is the very reason S A T A N shall be cut
off from the face of the earth, because he is work­
ing in the hearts of men against my coming. But
was every heart and soul upon earth looking for, and
hastening to, the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ;
then Satan must leave off tempting, and he could
never be chained down;—for then lie would be like
a man of war, when he seeth a strong army coming
against him, that he cannot conquer, and lays down
his arms to preserve his life— for, if he left off tempt­
ing men, they would leave off their persecution, when
Satan left off pursuing. How then could he lie like
Pharaoh pursuing the children of Israel, till he was
destroyed in the Red Sea? And so will Satan pur­
sue by temptations till he is destroyed and chained
down iu the great deep.— For all the waves shall now
cover him, in his pursuit, as they covered Pharaoh
and his host. So will I now destroy Satan and his
host, and make my people a free people, and a
rciUing people, iu the day of my power. Therefore
grieve not to see Pharaoh and his hbst pursuing you
ihrough unbelief. It is a sure and certain sign your
deliverance now draws near. No man would be
offended to hear of my kingdom being established,
and-Satan’s destroyed, if he did not pursue men, as
Pharaoh pursued the children of Israel.”
I shall add a few verses spoken, concerning M
r.
Brothers and myself, on the 29th of May, 1802.
“ And so like Pharaoh he shall fall,
And here’s his end I tell you all.
So m w in thee let all men see
Your Saviour to appear.
18
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
That I AM Id the woman’* form,
And (he true prophet here;
Then how shall man so simply come,
To swell above his God ?
I never will letdown myself,
Nor give him Moses* rod,
To work with man, for to perform
In any wonders here,
Until his God he’ll humbly own—
The serpent doth appear.
Now in his rod he judg’d his God
To be in every sound:
But all will see the mystery,
The serpent (here is found.
As he began, the man dpth end : _
. For strong temptation’s there:
If he could make the woman bend,
The fall you’d soon see clear.
For both would fall, I tell you all,
And ruin soon abound ; . .
For Satan now knows every call,
And trembles at the sound.
In arts from hell he now doth swell '
To overturn the whole :
And now his doom he doth know well,
This must bring on his fall.
For 1
*
1
1appear your Maker here, .
And reason strong with man:
From Sodom and Gomorrah here
I’ll shew the devil’s plan.
The man alone he’d soon unthrone,
By all his hellish lusts ;
But as the woman I did form,
Man’s happiness may burst,
For to bring m as I’ve begun
A whole creation new. —
So now fear not, my little flock,
My kingdom I’ll give you
And let these words be put in print,
That all may know their due.
For by thy hand they all must stand;
Then let thy hand appear ;
Then all will see the mystery,
There’s no impostor here.
Because thy hand shall ever stand
While earth doth now endure;
And when they gain the promis’d land,
The pealed shall be sure
19
Digitized by Google
*
1r
*
*
> H *»*
W \ m hi 1**r
^ t ' im ihOvi * tl
l t u h ^ u K 4 t« IU V l * »
'S/-rv/%* o4mr. I let* tfwe hfff,
r.‘*« f m i name will stand;
fvr a»i iheu offspring sealed are,
Thai now believe thy hand.
This PH explain another time.—
But how can man so simply come*
To think that in his form
1 e’er shall be reveal’d to mm ?
My gospel all would scorn.
“ The Saviour here doth now appear
The Jews would inslant cry,
That I a traitor was before.
And justly I did die.
" Now here’s the King/* would thousands sing,
•' AwH here’s the Prince of Peace;**
I never did perform such thing.
To make your jarring cease.
• For though my bl«xxi th* \ictuA stood,
And I the grief dkt bear ;
If unto man I now should come*
Then man #n croun must wear.
Ah, simple men, your thoughts ace vain,
You plac’d m i all in man ;
And from tAeJtu\ 1 tell you true,
Would soon be every plan;
Isaiah here they soon would clear,
The greatest prophet stixxl ;
And Moses there, they sttong would dear.
And all to man allude.
But as to me the mystery see,
No honour I could gain ;
For if I now should come in man,
You all would this maintain ;
For all mv bible you’d go through
And place it all in man ;
My gospel you did never know,
The way I said Pd come.
But now from Paul, Fll answer all—
The fulness doth appear,
And perfect in the Woman's form
You all shall find mb here ;
For to redeem from hell and sin
The fulness now is come;
Under the law, you all shall know,
Digitized by C a O C K ^ l c
The W«b m she must stand )
A mother here she must appear
Of all the living race j
And how my bible will you clear,
Your Lord for to disgrace?
But all shall see the mystery;
The Woman here I am made,
That heirs of God you all may be*
Oh, men be not misled !
When first I came it was as man#
And of a woman born;
Butas the sword went through her soul,
I now am in her form,
For to fulfil my Father's will,
And make your bliss complete »
I amthe helpmate he did mean,
The mysteries all are great.
The fall of man was known to him )
If angels he betray'd,
My Father knew he'd work, in man*
And so they’d be misled.
Then now you see the mystery (
I took from man a bone,
That in the end, was my intent;
His foe she should unthrone.
So now you see the mystery,
Why 1 the man did part ;
Because the bone I took from man
Must strike the fatal dart;
For broken she shall never be; .
My word I'll never break 1
I made the helpmate then for he.
And now I’ll make it grbat.
For I'll appear in her so clear.
And all her foes confound.
And soon you'll see a mystery,
To ages shall resound.
For man with man I did contend,
In every age that's past;
But now 'tis drawing to an' end,
I’ll in the Woman burst.
As water here did man appear.
And man 1 will redeem;
For man with man hath ever been
Contending to (his day;
And persecution ever seen,
And all in grief did lie.
Thenhowby man shall I begin
21
Digitized by GoogFe
To bring my kingdom near?
N o ! it is in the woman's form.
The mysteries I shall clear;
i And all my bible open wide, ‘
I'll now give by her hand; *
And all shall know 'tis by the bride
The bridegroom now shall stand.
No other way, to you 1 say,
Can you your Saviour prove;
No other way, to you, I say,
I'll ever shew my love.
So now see clear, the mystery here,
The Woman bore the Son;
But how can he bring in his heirs
Before the bride is come >
For just like man I’ve laid my plan,
And now let man appear,
And tell me how without the bride
He ever gain'd an heir ?
So now see plain, ye learned men,
The field is open'd wide;
And with your foes I’ll now contend.
But it shall be in the bride.
So princes here you may appear,
As I did say at first;
And as the door was open'd here,
So every truth shall burst.
For now you'll see the mystery,
My soldiers to appear,
With every weapon in their hands—
My glittering sword is near.
The victory they soon will see
In triumph to appear ;
Thou’st boldly launch’d, by my command,
To bring the vision near.
So let your warlike trumpets sound
The Marriage of the Lamb;
My echo it shall back resound—
* My sons and daughters come.
My sons from far shall now appear—
My daughters gladly come ;
Jerusalem’s low walls repair,
And build them up again."
22 • .
As the world have blamed my writings, from using
of simple types and shadows; I must recommend-
Digitized by Google
them to their bibles, and they will see m many
places, particularly in the 13th chapter of Jeremiah,
4th verse, what a simple type is used there; but the
meaning was to a great purpose; and all the bible
shews the same:—and yet, the Lord says—“ In me '
there is no variableness, nor shadow of turning.*
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
23
Dec. 6, 1802.
LONDON:
The Second Edition, printed by \V. itfarcl.ant, in July, 1815.
( Price Sixpence.)
Digitized by Google
