{"name":"Lives Of Ashmole And Lilly","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1774__ashmole_lilly___lives_of_ashmole_and_lilly.pdf","mytitle":"Lives Of Ashmole And Lilly","mylang":"de"}
Cell. tf*. IsririUiHs , JD^lzt/jI\,
THE
L I V E S
OF THOSE
EMINENT ANTIQUARIES
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Efquire,
AND
Mr. WILLIAM LILLY,
WRITTEN BY THEMSELVES;
CONTAINING, FIRST,
WILLIAM LILLY'S History of His
LIFE and TIMES,
With Notes, by Mr. ASHMOLE;
SECONDLY,
LILLY'S LIFE and DEATH of
CHARLES THE FIRST:
AND LASTLY,
The LIFE of ELIAS ASHMOLE, Efquire.
By Way of Diary.
With Several Occasional Letters,
By CHARLES BURMAN, Efquire.
LONDON:
Printed for T, Dav i e s, in Rufel-Strcet, Covent Garden.
MDCC LXXIV.
ADVERTISEMENT
T O T H E
READER.
ALTHOUGH we cannot, with juf-
tice, compare Elias Afhmole to
that excellent Antiquary John Leland, or
William Lilly to the learned and inde-
fatigable Thomas Hearne; yet I think
we may fairly rank them with fuch writers
as honeft Antony Wood, whofe Diary
greatly refembles that of his cotemporary,
and intimate friend, Elias Afhmole.
Some
( 4 )
Some anecdotes, conne&ed with affairs
of ftate ; many particulars relating to il-
luftrious perfons, and antient and noble
families ; feveral occurrences in which
the Public is interefted, and other matters
of a more private nature, can only be
found in works of this kind. Hiftory
cannot ftoop to the meannefs of examin-
ing the materials of which Memoirs are
generally compofed.
And yet the pleafure and benefit re-
fulting from fuch books, are manifeft to
every reader.
I hope the admirers of the very labo-
rious Thomas Hearne will pardon me, if
I fhould venture to give it as my opinion,
and with much deference to their judg-
ment, that William Lilly's Life and Death
of Charles the firft, contains more ufeful
matter of inftruflion, as well as more
plendid and ftriking occurrences, than
are to be found in feveral of thofe monk-
ifh
( 5 )
ifh volumes publifhed by that learned
Oxonian,
Lilly affords us many curious parti-
culars relating to the life of that un-
fortunate Prince, which are no where elfe
to be found. In delineating the cha-
racter of Charles, he feems difpaffionate
and impartial, and indeed it agrees per-
fectly with the general portraiture of
him, as it is drawn by our moft authentic
Hiftorians.
The Hiftory of Lilly's Life and Times
is certainly one of the moft entertaining
narratives in our language. With refpedt
to the fcience he profefled of calculating
nativities, calling figures, the prediction
of events, and other appendages of Aftro-
logy, he would fain make us think that
he was a very folemn and ferious Believer,
Indeed, fuch is the manner o£ telling his
ftory, that fometimes the Reader may
poffibly be induced to fuppofe Lilly ra-
ther an Enthufiaft than an Impoftor. He
relates
( 6 )
relates many anecdotes of the pretenders
to foretell events, raife fpirits, and other
impoftures, with fuch feeming candor,
and with fuch an artlefs fimplicity of
flyle, that we are almoft perfuaded to take
his word when he protefts fuch an in-
violable refpeft to truth and fincerity.
The powerful genius of Shakefpeare
could carry him triumphantly through
fubjedts the moll unpromifing, and fa-
bles the moft improbable : we therefore
cannot wonder at the fuccefs of fuch of
his plays, where the magic of witches,
and the incantation of fpirits are defcribed,
or where the power of Fairies is intro-
duced ; when fuch was the Credulity of
the times refpefting thefe imaginary Be-
ings, and when that belief was made a
fcience of, and kept alive by artful and
fuperftitious, knavifh and enthufiaftic
teachers ; what Lilly relates of thefe peo-
ple, confidered only as matter of faft, is
furely very curious.
To
( 7 )
To conclude ; I know no Record but
this where we can find fo juft, and fo enter-
taining a Hiftory of Do&or Dee, Doftor
Forman, Booker, Winder, Kelly, Evans,
(Lilly's Matter) the famous William Poole,
and Captain Bubb Fifke, Sarah Shelborne,
and many others.
To thefe we may add,' the uncommon
effects of the Cryftal, the appearance of
Queen Mabb, and other ftrange and mi-
raculous, operations, which owe their ori-
gin to folly, curiofity, fuperftition, bi-
gotry and impofture.
T. D
THE
LIFE
X> F
WILLIAM LILLY,
Student in astrology.
Wrote by himfelf in the 66th Year of his Age,
at Hersham, in the Parifh of Walton
upon Thames, in the County of Surry.
Propria Mann.
I WAS born in the county of Leices-
ter, in an obfcure town, in the north-
weft borders thereof, called Difeworth,
feven miles fouth of the town of Derby,
one mile from Caftle-Donnington, a town
of great rudenefs, wherein it is not re-
membered that any of the farmers thereof
did ever educate any of their fons to learn-
ing, only my grandfather fent his younger
B .
'
fon
2 Mr. Lilly's History
fon to Cambridge, whofe name was Ro-
bert Lilly , and died Vicar of Cambden in
Gloucefterihire, about 1640.
The town of Difeworth did formerly
belong unto the Lord Seagrave, for there
is one record in the hands of my coufin
Melborn Williamfon, which mentions
one acre of land abutting north upon the
gates of the Lord Seagrave ; and there is
one clofe, called Hall-clofe, wherein the
ruins of fome ancient Buildings appear,
and particularly where the dove-houfe
ftood ; and there is alfo the ruins of de-
cayed fifh-ponds and other outhoufes.
This town came at length to be the inhe-
ritance of Margaret, Countefs of Rich-
mond, Mother of Henry VII. which
Margaret gave this town and lordfhip of
Difeworth unto Chrift's College in Cam-
bridge, the Mafter and Fellows whereof
have ever lince, and at prefent, enjoy and
poflefs it.
In the church of this town there is but
one monument, and that is a white mar-
ble ftone, now almoft broken to pieces,
which was placed there by Robert Lilly,
my grandfather, in memory of Jane his
wife, the daughter of Mr. Poole of Dal-
by, in the fame county, a family now
quite extinguifhed. My grandmother's
brother was Mr. Henry Poole, one of the
Knights of Rhodes, or Templars, who
of his* Life and Times. 3
being a foldier at Rhodes at the taking
thereof by Solyman the Magnificent, and
efcaping with his life, came afterwards to
England, and married the Lady Parron
or Perham, of Oxfordshire, and was cal-
led, during his life, Sir Henry Poole.
William Poole the Aftrologer knew him
very well, and remembers him to have
been a very tall perfon, and reputed of
great ftrength in his younger years.
The impropriation of this town of
Difeworth was formerly the inheritance of
three filters, whereof two became vota-
ries j one in the nunnery of Langly in
the parifh of Difeworth, valued at the
fuppreflion, I mean the whole nunnery,
at thirty-two pounds per annum, and this
fillers part is yet enjoyed by the family of
the Grayes, who now, and for fome years
paft, have the enjoyment and poffeffion
of all the lands formerly belonging to the
nunnery in the parifh of Difeworth, and
are at prefent of the yearly value of three
hundred and fifty pounds per annum.
One of the fillers gave her part of the
great tithes unto a religious houfe in Bre-
don upon the Hill ; and, as the inhabi-
tants report, became a religious perfon
afterwards.
The third fifter married, and her part
of the tithes in fucceeding ages became the
B z garl
4 Mi'. Lilly's History
Earl of Huntingdon's, who not many
years nnce fold it to one of his fervants.
The donation of the vicarage is in the
gift of the Grayes of Langley, unto whom
they pay yearly, (I mean unto the Viear)
as I am informed, fix pounds per annum.
Very lately fome charitable citizens have
purchafed one third portion of the tithes,
and given it for a maintenance of a preach-
ing minifter, and it is now of the value
of about fifty pounds per annum.
There have been two hermitages in this
parifh the laft hermit was well remem-
bered by one Thomas Cooke, a very an-
cient inhabitant, who in my younger years
acquainted me therewith.
This town of Difewr
orth is divided into
three parifhes ; one part belongs unto
Lockington, in which part ftandeth my
father's houfe, over-againft the weft end
of the fteeple, in which I was born: fome
other farms are in the parifh of Bredon,
the reft in the parifh of Difeworth.
In this town, but in the parifh of Lock-
ington, was I born, the firft day of May,
1602.
My father's name was William Lilly,
fon of Robert, the fon of Robert, the foil
of Rowland, &c. My mother was Alice,
the daughter of Edward Barham, of Fif-
kerton Mills, in Nottinghamfhire, two
miles from Newark upon Trent: this Ed-
ward
or his Life and Times. $
ward Barham was born in Norwich, and
well remembered the rebellion of Kett the
Tanner, in the days of Edward VI.
Our family have continued many ages
in this town as yeomen ; befides the farm
my father and his anceftors lived in, both
my father and grandfather had much free
land, and many houfes in the town, not
belonging to the college, as the farm
wherein they were all born doth, and is
now at this prefent of the value of forty
pounds per annum, and in poffeffion of
my brother's fon ; but the freehold land
and houfes, formerly purchafed by my an-
ceftors, were all fold by my grandfather
and father; fo that now our family depend
wholly upon a college leafe. Of my in-*
fancy I can fpeak little, only I do remem-
ber that in the fourth year of my age I
had the meafles.'
I was, during my minority, put to learn
at fuch fchools, and of fuch matters, as
the rudenefs of the place and country af-r
forded ; my mother intending I (hould be
a fcholar from my infancy, feeing my fa-
ther's backflidings in the world, and no
hopes by plain hufbandry to recruit a de-
cayed eftate j therefore upon Trinity Tuef-
day, 1 6 1 3, my father had me to Afhby de
la Zouch, to be inftrufted by one Mr.
John Brinfley; one, in thofe times, of
great abilities for inftru6tion of youth in
B 3 the
6 Mr. Lilly's History
the Latin and Greek tongues ; he was ve-
ry fevere in his life and cqnverfation, and
did breed up many fcholars for the uni-
verfities : in religion he was a ftrift Puri-
tan, not conformable wholly to the cere-
monies of the Church of England. In
this town of Afhby de la Zouch, for many
years together, Mr. Arthur Hilderfham
exercifed his minillry at my being there
;
and all the while I continued at Afhby, he
was filenced. This is that famous Hil-
derfham, who left behind him a commen-
tary on the fifty-firft Pfalm -
} as alfq many
fermons upon the fourth of John, both
which are printed : he was an excellent
textuary, of exemplary life, pleafant in
difcourfe, a ftrong enemy to the Brown-
ifts, and diflented not from the Church
of England in any article of faith, but
only about wearing the furplice, baptiz-
ing with the crofs, and kneeling at the
facrament ; moft of the people in the
town were directed by his judgment, and
fo continued, and yet do continue prefby-
terianly affefted ; for when the Lord of
Loughborough in 1642, 1643, 1644, and
1645, had his garrifon in that town, if
by chance at any time any troops of horfe
had lodged within the town, though they
came late at night to their quarters ; yet
would one or other of the town prefently
give Sir John Gell of Derby notice, fo
2 that
OF HIS LlLE AND TlMES. 7
that ere next morning mod of his Maje-
fty's troops were feized in their lodgings,
which moved the Lord of Loughborough
merrily to fay, there was not a fart let in
Afby but it was prefently carried to Derby,
The feveral authors I there learned were
thefe, viz. Sententise Pueriles, Cato, Cor-
derius, iEfop's Fables, Tully's Offices,
Ovid de Triftibus ; laftly, Virgil, then
Horace ; as alfo Camden's Greek Gram-
mar, Theognis and Homer's Iliads : I
was only entered into Udall's Hebrew
Grammar; he never taught Logick, but
often would fay it was fit to be learned in
the univerfities,
In the fourteenth year of my age, by a
fellow fcholar of fwarth, black complexion?
I had like to have my right eye beaten
out as we were at play ; the fame year,
about Michaelmas, I got a furfeit, and
thereupon a fever, by eating beech-nuts.
In the fixteenth year of my age I was
exceedingly troubled in my dreams con-
cerning my falvation and damnation, and
alfo concerning the fafety and deftruc-
tion of the fouls of my father and mo-
ther; in the nights I frequently wept,
prayed and mourned, for fear my fins
might offend God.
In the feventeenth year of my age my
mother died.
B 4 In
8 Mr. Lilly's History
v
In the eighteenth year of my age my
mafter Brinfley was enforced from keep-
ing fchool, being perfecuted by the Bi-
fhop's officers, he came to London, and
then lectured in London, where he after-
wards died. In this ye^r, by reafon of
my father's poverty, I was alfo enforced
to leave fchool, and fo came to my father's
houfe, where I lived in much penury for.
one year, and taught fchool one quarter
of a year, until God's providence pro-
vided better for mp.
For the two laft y^ars of my being at
fchool, I was of the higheft form in the
fchool, and chiefeft of that form ; I could
then fpeak Latin as well as Englifh ; could
make extempore verfes upon any theme
;
all kinds of verfes, Hexameter, Pentame-
ter, Phaleuciacks, Iambicks, Sapphicks,
&c. fo that if any fcholars from remote
fchools came to difpute, I was ringleader
to difpute with them ; I could cap ver-
fes, &c. If any minifter came to exa-
mine us, I was brought forth againft him,
nor would I argue with him unlefs in the
Latin tongue, which I found few of them
could well fpeak without breaking Prif-
cian's head • which, if once they did, I
would complain to my mafter, Non bene
intelligit linguam Latinam, nec prorfus loqui-
tur. In the derivation of words, I found
moft
of his Life and Times. 9
moft of them defective, nor indeed were
any of them good grammarians : all and
every of thofe fcholars who were of my
form and ftanding, went to Cambridge
and proved excellent divines, only poor I,
William Lilly, was not fo happy ; for-
tune then frowning upon father's prefent
condition, he not in any capacity to
maintain me at the univerfity.
Of the Manner how I came unto
London.
Worthy fir, I take much delight to
recount unto you, even all and every
circumftance of my life, whether good,
moderate, or evil ; Deo gloria.
My father had one Samuei Smatty for
his Attorney, unto whom I went fundry
times with letters, who perceiving I was
a fcholar, and that I lived miferably in
the country, lofing my time, nor any
ways likely to do better, if I continued
there ; pitying my condition, he fent word
for me to come and fpeak with him, and
told me that he had lately been at Lon-
don, where there was a gentleman wanted
a youth, to attend him and his wife, who
could write, &c.
I acquainted my father with it, who
w^s very willing to be rid pf me, for I
could
io Mr. Lilly's History
could not work, drive the plough, or
endure any country labour; my fa-
ther oft would fay, I was good for no-
thing.
I had only twenty {hillings, and no
more, to buy me a new fuit, hofe, dou-
blet, &c. my doublet was fuftian : I re-
paired to Mr. Smatty, when I was ac-
coutred, for a letter to my matter, which
he gave me.
Upon ft/Tonday, April 3, 1620, I de-
parted from Difeworth, and came to Lei-
cefter : but I muft acquaint you, that
before I came away I vifited my friends,
amongft whom I had given me about
ten fhillings, which was a great comfort
unto me. On Tuefday, April the 4th,
I took leave of my father, then in Lei-
cefter gaol for debt, and came along with
Bradfhaw the carrier, the fame perfon
with whom many of the Duke of Bucking-
ham's kindred had come up with. Hark
how the waggons crack with their rich
lading ! It was a very ftormy week, cold
and uncomfortable : I footed it all along
;
we could not reach London until Palm-
Sunday, the 9th of April, about half an
hour after three in the afternoon, at
which time we entered Smithfield. When
I had gratified the carrier and his fer-
vants, I had feven fhillings and fix pence
left, and no more ; one fuit of cloaths
upon
of his Life and Times. ii
upon my back, two fhirts, three bands,
one pair of fhoes, and as many ftockings.
Upon the delivery of my letter my mafter
entertained me, and next day bought
me a new cloak, of which you may ima-
gine (good Efquire) whether I was not
proud of ; befides, I faw and eat good
white bread, contrary to our diet in Lei-
cefterfhire. My matter's name was Gil-
bert Wright, born at Market Bofworth
in Leicefterfhire ; my miftrefs was born
at Afhby de la Zouch, in the fame county,
and in the town where I had gone to>
fchool. This Gilbert Wright could nei-
ther write nor read; he lived upon his
annual rents, was of no calling or pro-
feffion ; he had for many years been fer-
vant to the Lady Pawlet in Hertfordfhire
;
and when Serjeant Puckering was made
Lord keeper, he made him keeper of his
lodgings at Whitehall. When Sir Tho-
mas Egerton was made Lord Chancellor,
he entertained him in the fame place ; and
when he married a widow in Newgate
Market, the Lord Chancellor recom-
mended him to the company of Salters,
London, to admit him into their com-
pany, and fo they did, and my mafter in
1624, was mafter of that company; he
was a man of excellent natural parts, and
would fpeak publickly upon any occafion
very rationally and to the purpofe. I
write
12 Mr. Lilly's History
write this, that the world may know he
was no taylor, or myfelf of that or any
other calling or profeffion : My work was
to go before my mafter to church ; to at-
tend my mafter when he went abroad
;
to make clean his fhoes ; fweep theftreet;
help to drive bucks when we wafhed;
fetch water in a tub from the Thames :
I have helped to carry eighteen tubs of
water in one morning, weed the garden
;
all manner of drudgeries I willingly per-
formed ;
fcrape trenchers, &c. If I had
any profeffion, it was of this nature : I
fhould never have denied my being a tay-
lor, had I been one ; for there is no cal-
ling fo bafe, which by God's mercy may
not afford a livelihood ; and had not my
mafter entertained me, I would have been
of a very mean profeffion ere I would
have returned into the country again
;
fo here ends the aftions of eighteen years
of my life.
My mafter married his fecond wife for
her eftate ; flie was competently rich y
fhe married him for confiderations he
performed not, (nofturnal fociety) fo
that they lived very uncomfortably ; fhe
was about feventy years of age, he fixty
fix or more ;
yet never was any woman
more jealous of a hufband than fhe ; in-
fcmuch, that whenfoever he went into
London, fhe was confident of his going
to
of his Life and Times. fc
rj
to women; by thofe means my life was
the more uncomfortable, it being very
difficult to pleafe two fuch oppofite na-
tures : However, as to the things of this
world I had enough, and endured their
difcontents with much ferenenefs. My
miftrefs was very curious to know of fuch
as were then called cunning or wife men,
whether fhe fhould bury her hulband ?
She frequently vifited fuch perfons, and
this occafion begot in me a little defire to
learn fomething that way, but wanting
money to buy books, I laid afide thefe
motions, and endeavoured 4
to pleafe both
mafter and miftrefs.
Of my Miftrefs' s Death, and Occa-
fion thereof by Means of a Can-
cer in her Breaft.
In 1622 fhe complained of a pain in her
left breaft, whereon there appeared at firft
a hard knob no bigger than a fmall pea
;
it increafed in a little time very much,
was very hard, and fometimes would look
very red; fhe took advice of furgeons,
had oils, fear-cloths, plates of lead, and
what not: In 1623 it grew very big, and
fpread all over her breaft ; then for many
weeks pultices were applied to it, which
in continuance of time broke the fkin,
and
14 Mr. Lilly's History
and then abundance of watery tliin fluff
came from it, but nothing elfe ; at length
the matter came to fuppuration, but never
any great ftore iffued forth it was ex-
ceeding noifome and painful; from the
beginning of it until fhe died, (he would
permit no furgeon to drefs it but only
myfelf ; I applied every thing unto it, and
her pains were fo great the winter before
fhe died, that I have been called out of
my bed two or three times in one night
to drefs it and change plaifters. In 1624
by degrees with fcifiars I cut all the whole
breaft away, I mean the finews, nerves,
&c. In one fortnight, or little more,
it appeared, as it were, mere flefh, all
raw, fo that fhe could fcarce endure any
unguent to be applied. I remember there
was a great cleft through the middle of
the breaft, which when that fully ap-
peared flie died, which was in September
1624 ; my mafter being then in the coun-
try, his kindred in London would wil-
lingly have had mourning for her ; but
by advice of an efpecial friend of his I
contradifted them ; nor would I permit
them to look into any cheft or trunk in
the houfe : She was decently buried, and
fo fond of me in the time of her ficknefs,
fhe would never permit me out of her
chamber, gave me five pounds in old
gold, and fent me unto a private trunk of
hers
of his Life and Times. 15
hers at a friend's houfe, where fhe had
one hundred pounds in gold ; flie bid
me bring it away and take it, but when
I opened the trunk I found nothing there-
in ; for a kinfman of hers had been there
a few days before and carried all away
:
She was in a great paffion at my relating
thereof, becaufe fhe could not gratify my
pains in all her ficknefs, advifed me to
help myfelf when fhe was gone, out of
my matter's goods, which I never did.
Courteous Efquire, be not weary of
reading hereof, or what followeth.
When my miftrefs died, ftie had under
her arm-hole a fmall fcarlet bag full of
many things, which, one that was there
delivered unto me. There was in this
bag feveral figils, fome of Jupiter in Trine,
others of the nature of Venus, fome of
iron, and one of gold, of pure angel-
gold, of the bignefs of a thirty three
(hilling piece of King James's coin. In
the circumference on one fide was en-
graven, Vicit Leo de tribu "Judce lietragram-
maton -}-, within the middle there was
engraven an holy lamb. In the other
circumference there was Amraphel and
three 4-. In the middle, Sanftus Petrus,
Alpha and Omega.
The occafion of framing this figil wr
as
thus; her former hufband travelling into
SufTex, happened to lodge in an inn, and
to
16 Mr. Lilly's History
to lie in a chamber thereof ; wherein, not
many months before a country grazier liad
lain, and in the night cut his own throat
;
after this night's lodging hewas perpetually,
and for many years, followed by a fpirit,
which vocally and articulately provoked
him to cut his throat ; he was ufed fre-
quently to fay, ' I defy thee, I defy thee/
and to fpit at the fpirit ; this fpirit foU
lowed him many years, he not making
any body acquainted with it ; at laft he
grew melancholly and difcontented ; which
being carefully obferved by his wife, fhe
many times hearing him pronounce, <
I
defy thee/ &c. fhe defired him to acquaint
her with the caufe of his diftemper, which
he then did. Away fhe went to Dr.
Simon Forman, who lived then in Lam-
beth, and acquaints him with it; who
having framed this figil, and hanged it
about his neck, he wearing it continually
until he died, was never more molefted
by the fpirit : I fold the figil for thirty
two millings, but tranfcribed the words
verbatims I have related. Sir, you mail
now have a (lory of this Simon Forman,
as his widow, whom I well knew, re-
lated it unto me. But before I relate
his death, I fhall acquaint you fome-
thing of the man, as I . have gathered
them from fome manufcripts of his own
writing.
Of
of his Life and Times.
Of Dr. Simon Forman.
He was a chandler's fon in the city
of Weftminfter* He travelled into Hol-
land for a month in 1580, purpofely to
be inftrlifted in aftrology, and other more
occult fciences % as alfo in phyfick, tak-
ing his degree of Doctor beyond feas : be-
ing fufficiently furnifhed and inftrufted
with what he defired, he returned into
England towards the latter end of the
reign of Queen Elizabeth, and flourifhed
until that year of King James, wherein
the Countefs of Effex, the Earl of Somer-
fet, and Sir Thomas Overbury's matters
were queftioned. He lived in Lambeth
w7
ith a very good report of the neighbour-
hood, efpecially of the poor, unto whom
he was charitable. He was a perfon that
in horary queftions (efpecially thefts) was
very judicious and fortunate ; fo alfo in
fickneffes, which indeed was his mafter-
piece. In refolving queftions about mar-
riage he had good fuccefs : in other quef-
tions very moderate. He was a perfon of
indefatigable pains. I have feen fome-
times half one fheet of paper wrote of
his judgment upon one queftion ; in
writing whereof he ufed much tautology,
as you may fee yourfelf (moft excellent
Efquire) if you read a great book of Dr.
C • Flood's,
i8 Mr. Lilly's History
Hood's, which you have, who had all
that book from the manufcripts of For-
man for I have feen the fame word for
word in an Englifh manufcript formerly
belonging to Doctor Willoughby of Glou-
cefterihire. Had Forman lived to have
methodized his own papers, I doubt not
but he would have advanced the Jatro-
mathematical part thereof very compleatly
;
for he was very obfervant, and kept notes
of the fuccefs of his judgments, as in
many of his figures I have obferved. I
very well remember to have read in one of
his manufcripts, what followeth.
' Being in bed one morning' (fays he) ' I
' was defirous to know whether I fhould
' ever be a Lord, Earl or Knight, &c.
/ whereupon I fet a figure ; and thereupon
' my judgment / by which he concluded,
that within two years time he (hould be
a Lord or great man : f But/ fays he, ' be-
' fore the two years were expired, the
/ Doclors put me in Newgate, and no-
.* thing came/ Not long after, he was
defirous to know the fame things con-
cerning his honour or greatfhip. Ano-
ther figure was fet, and that promifed
him to be a great Lord within one year.
But he fets down, that in that year he
had no preferment at all ; only *
I became
' acquainted with a merchant's wife, by
' whom I got well/ There is another
figure
of his Life and Times. 19
figure concerning one Sir Ayre his
going into Turkey, whether it would be
a good voyage or not : The Do<5tor re-
peats all his aftrological reafons, and
mufters them together, and then gave
his judgment it would be a fortunate
voyage. But under this figure, he con-
cludes, ? this proved not fo, for he was
:5 taken prifoner by pirates ere he arrived in
' Turkey, and loft all.' He fet feveral
queftions to know if he fhould attain the
philofophers ftone, and the figures, ac-
cording to his ftraining, did feem to fig-
nify as much ; and then he tuggs upon,
the afpe£ts and configurations, and elected
a fit time to begin his operation ; but by
and by, in conclufion, he adds, < fo the
< work went very forward ; but upon the
' of d the fetting-glafs broke, and I
' loft all my pains v He fets down five or
fix fuch judgments, but ftil] complains
all came to nothing, upon the malignant
afpefts of 7? and <? . Although fome of
his aftrological judgments did fail, more
particularly thofe concerning himfelf, he
being no way capable of fuch preferment
as he ambitioufly defired ; yet I (hall re-
peat fome other of his judgments, which
did not fail, being performed by con-
ference with fpirits. My miftrefs went
once unto him, to know when her huf-
band, then in Cumberland, would return,
C 2 he
20 Mr. Lilly's History
he having promifed to be at home near the
time of the queftion ; after fome confidera-
tion, he told her to this effect :
1
Margery/
4
for fo her name was, thy hufband will not
* be at home thefe eighteen days ; his kin-
* dred have vexed him, and he is come
' away from them in much anger : he is
* now in Carlifle, and hath but threepence
* in his purfe.' And when he came home
he confeffed all to be true, and that upon
leaving his kindred he had but three pence
in his purfe. I fhall relate one ftory
more, and then his death.
One Coleman, clerk to Sir Thomas
Beaumont of Leicefterfhire, having had
fome liberal favours both from his Lady
and her daughters, bragged of it, &c.
The Knight brought him into the ftar-
chamber, had his fervant fentenced to be
pilloried, whipped, and afterwards, dur-
ing life, to be imprifoned. The fentence
was executed in London, and was to be
in Leicefterfhire: Two keepers were to
convey Coleman from the Fleet to Lei-
cefter. My miflrefs taking coniideration
of Coleman, and the miferies he was to
fuffer, went prefently to Forman, ac-
quainted him therewith ; who, after con-
lideration, fwore Coleman had lain both
with mother and daughters ; and befides
faid, that the old Lady being afflifted
with fits of the mother, called him into
her
of his Life and Times. 21
her chamber to hold down the fits with
his hands ; and that he holding his hands
about the breaft, fhe cried « Lower, lower/
and put his hands below her belly ; and
then He alfo told my miftrefs in what
pofture he lay with the young Ladies, &c.
and (aid, * they intend in Leicefter to whip
< him to death; but I aiTure thee, Mar-
* gery, he fhall never come there % yet they
* fet forward tomorrow/ fays he ; and fo
his two keepers did, Coleman's legs being
locked with an iron chain under the horfe's
belly. In this nature they travelled the
firft and fecond day ; on the third day
the two keepers, feeing their prifoner's
civility the two preceding days, did not
lock his chain under the horfe's belly
as formerly, but locked it only to one *
fide. In this pofture they rode fomc
miles beyond Northampton, when, on a
fudden, one of the keepers had a necef-
fity to untrufs, and fo the other and
Coleman ftood ftill ; by and by the other
keeper defired Coleman to hold his horfe,
for he had occafion alfo : Coleman im-
mediately took one of their fwords, and
ran through two of the horfes, killing
them ftark dead; gets upon the other,
with one of the r fwords ;
c
Farewell, gen-
* tlemen/ quoth he, * tell my mafter I have
* no mind to be whipped in Leicefterfhire/
and fo went his -way. The two keepers
c 3 in
22 Mr. Lilly's History
in all hafte went to a gentleman's houfo
near at hand, complaining of their mif-
fortune, and defired of him to purfue
their prifoner, which he with much civi-
lity granted ; but ere the horfes could be
got ready, the miftrefs of the houfe came
down, and enquiring what the matter
was, w^ent to the (table, and commanded
the horfes to be unfaddled, with this
ftiarp fpeech
—
c
Let the Lady Beaumont
* and her daughters live honeftly, none of
' my horfes fhall go forth upon this oc-
' cafion.'
I could relate many fuch ftories of his
performances ; as alfo what he wrote in
a book left behind him, viz. ' This I made
* the devil write with his own hand in
f Lambeth Fields 1596, in June or July,
* as I now remember/ He profefled to his
wife there would be much trouble about
Carr and the Countefs of Effex, who
frequently reforted unto him, and from
whofe company he would fometimes lock
himfelf in his ftudy a whole day. Now
we come to his death, which happened as
follows ; the Sunday night before he died,
his wife and he being at fupper in their
garden-houfe, fhe being pleafarit, told
him, that fhe had been informed he could
refolve, whether man or wife fhould die
firft ;
< Whether fhall F (quoth (he) ' bury
' you or no .
?> ' Oh Trunco/ for fo he called
of his Life and Times. 23
her, * thou wilt bury me, but thou wilt
* much repent it/ *
Yea, but how long firft?'
* I fhall die/ faid he, < ere Thurfday night/
Monday came, all was well. Tuefday
came, he not fick. Wednefday came,
and ftill he was well ; with which his
impertienent wife did much twit him in
the teeth. Thurfday came, and dinner
was ended, he very well : he went down
to the water-fide, and took a pair of
oars to go to fome buildings he was in
hand with in Puddle-dock. Being in the
middle of the Thames, he prefently fell
down, only faying, An impoft, an impoft/
and fo died. A moft fad ftorm of wind
immediately following. He died worth
one thoufand two hundred pounds, and
left only one fon called Clement. All
his rarities, fecret manufcripts, of what
quality foever, Dr. Napper of Lindford
in Buckinghamfhire had, who had been
a long time his fcholar ; and of whom
Forman was ufed to fay he would be a
dunce : Yet in continuance of time he
proved a fingular aftrologer and phyfi-
cian. Sir Richard now living I believe
has all thofe rarities in poffefiion, which
were Forman's, being kinfman and heir
unto Dr. Napper. [His fon Thomas
Napper, Efq; moft generoufly gave moft of
thefe manufcripts to Elias Afhmole, Efq;]
I hope you will pardon this digreffion.
C 4 After
24 MR - Lilly's History
After my miftrefs was dead, I lived
moft comfortably, my mafter having a
great affeftion for me.
The year 1625 now comes on, and
the plague exceeding violent, I will re-
late what I obferved the fpring before
it broke forth. Againft our corner houfe
every night there would come down, a-
bout five or fix of the clock, fometime
one hundred or more boys, fome play-
ing, others as if in ferious difcourfe, and
juft as it grew dark would all be gone
home j many fucceeding years there was
no fuch, or any concourfe ufually, no
more than four or five in a company
:
In the fpring of 1625, the boys and
youths of feveral parifhes in like num-
ber appeared again, which I beholding,
called Thomas Sanders, my landlord, and
told him, that the youth and young
boys of feveral parifhes did in that na-
ture affemble and play, in the beginning
of the year 1625. ' God blefs us/ quoth
I, ' from a plague this year/ but then
there fucceeded one, and the greatefl that
ever was in London. In 1025, the vifi-
tation encreafing, and my mafter having
a great charge of money and plate, fome
of his own, fome other men's, left me
and a fellow-fervant to keep the houfe,
and himfelf in June went into Leicefter-
fhire. He was in that year feoffee col-
leftor
of his Life and Times. 25
lcflor for twelve poor alms-people living
in Clement-Dane's Church-Yard whofe
penfions I in his abfence paid weekly, to
his and parifh's great fatisfaction. My
matter was no fooner gone down, but I
bought a bafs-viol, and got a mafter to
inftruft me ; the intervals of time I fpent
in bowling in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, with
Wat the cobler, Dick the blackfmith, and
fuch like companions : We have fome-
times been at our work at fix in the morn-
ing, and fo continued till three or four in
the afternoon, many times without bread
or drink all that while. Sometimes I
went to church and heard funeral fer-
mons, of which there was then great
plenty. At other times I went early to
St. Antholine's in London, where there
was every morning a fermon. The moft
able people of the whole city and fuburbs
were out of town; if any remained, it
were fuch as were engaged by parifh-
offices to remain ; no habit of a gentle^
man or woman continued ; the woeful
calamity of that year was grievous, peo-
ple dying in the open fields and in the
open ftreets. At laft, in Auguft, the
bills of mortality fo encreafed, that very
few people had thoughts of furviving the
contagion : The Sunday before the great
bill came forth, which was of five thoufand
and odd hundreds, there was appointed
a facra-
26 Mr. Lilly's History
a facramest at Clement Dane's ; during
the diftributing whereof I do very well
remember we fang thirteen parts of the
one hundred and nineteeth Pfalm. One
Jacob, our minifter (for we had three that
day, the communion was fo great) fell
fick as he was giving the facrament, went
home, and was buried of the plague the
Thurfday following. Mr. James, ano-
ther of the minifters, fell fick ere he had
quite finifhed, had the plague, and was
thirteen weeks ere he recovered. Mr.
Whitacre, the laft of the three, efcaped
not only then, but all the contagion fol-
lowing, without any ficknefs at all;
though he officiated at every funeral, and
buried all manner of people, whether
they died of the plague or not. He was
given to drink, feldom could preach more
than one quarter of an hour at a time,
&c. In November my matter came home.
My fellow-fervant's and my diet came
weekly to fix (hillings and fix pence,
fometimes to feven {hillings, fo cheap was
diet at that time.
In February of that year, my matter
married again (one who after his death
became my wife). In the fame year he
fettled upon me, during my life, twenty
pounds per annum> which I have enjoyed
ever fince, even to the writing hereof.
May
of his Life and Times. 27
May 22, 1627, my mafter died at the
corner houfe in the Strand, where I alfo
lived fo long. He died inteftate ; my
miftrefs relinquifliing the adminiftration,
it came to his elder brother, who affigned
the eftate over to me for payment of my
matter's debts ; which being paid, I faith-
fully returned the remaining part unto
his adminiftrator ; nor had one penny of
the eftate more than twenty pounds per
annum, which was allowed me by con-
tract, to undertake the payment of my
matter's debts,
Of my Marriage the firft Time.
My miftrefs had been twice married
to old men, was now refolved to be cou-
?ened no more; fhe was of a brown
ruddy complexion, corpulent, of but
mean ftature, plain, no education, yet a
very provident perfon, and of good con-
dition : She had many fuitors, old men,
whom ftie declined ; fome gentlemen of
decayed fortunes^ whom fhe liked not,
for fhe was covetous and fparing ;
By my
fellow-fervant fhe was obferved frequently
to fay, fhe cared not if fhe married a
man that would love her, fo that he had
never a penny ; and would ordinarily talk
of me when ftie was in bed : This fer-
yant
2S Mr. Lilly's History
vant gave me encouragement to give the
onfet : I was much perplexed hereat, for
fhould I attempt her, and be flighted, fhe
would never care for me afterwards ; but
again, I considered that if I fhould at-
tempt and fail, fhe would never fpeak
of it; or would any believe I durft be fo
audacious as to propound fuch a quef-
tion, the difproportion of years and for-
tune being fo great betwixt us : However,
all her talk was of hufbands, and in my
prefence faying one day after dinner, fhe
refpecled not wealth, but defired an ho-
neft man ; I made anfwer, I thought I
could fit her with fuch a hufband ; fhe
allied me, where ? I made no more ado,
but prefently faluted her, and told her
myfelf was the man : She replied, I was
too young; I faid nay; what I had not
in wealth, I would fupply in love ; and
faluted her frequently, which (he ac-
cepted lovingly ; and next day at dinner
made me fit down at dinner with my
hat on my head, and faid, fhe intended
to make me her hufband ; for which I
gave her many falutes, &c.
I was very careful to keep all things
fecret, for I well knew, if fhe fhould take
counfel of any friend, my hopes would be
fruftrated, therefore I fuddenly procured
her confent to marry, unto which fhe
affented ; fo that upon the eighth dav
of
i
of his Life and Times. 29
of September 1627, at St. George's church'
in Southwark, I was married unto her,
and for two whole years we kept it
fecret. When it was divulged, and loose
people blamed her for it, (he conftantly
replied, that (lie had no kindred; if I
proved kind, and a good huiband, flic
would make me a man ; if I proved
otherwife, fhe only undid herfetf. In
the third and fourth years after our mar-
riage, we had ftrong fuits of law with
her firft hufband's kindred, but over-
threw them in the end. During all the
time of her life, which was until Oftober
1633, we lived very lovingly, I frequent-
ing no company at all ; my exercifes were
fometimes angling, in which I ever de-
lighted : My companions, two aged men.
I then frequented lectures, two or three
in a week ; I heard Mr. Sute in Lombard-
Street, Mr. Gouge of Elack-Fryars, Dr.
Micklethwait of the Temple, Dr. Oldf-
worth, with others, the moft learned men
of thefe times, and leaned in judgment to
Puritanifm. In October 1627, 1 was made
free of the Salters company in London.
How I came to ftudjr Aftrology.
It happened on one Sunday 1632, as
xnyfelf and a Juftice of Peace's clerk were,
before
30 Mr. Lilly's History
before fervice, difcourfing of many things,
he chanced to fay, that fuch a perfon was
a great fcholar, nay, fo learned, that he
could make an Almanack, which to me
then was ftrange : One fpeech begot ano-
ther, till, at laft, he faid, he could bring
me acquainted with one Evans in Gun-
Powder -Alley, who had formerly lived in
Staffordfhire, that was an excellent wife
man, and ftudied the Black Art. The
fame week after we went to fee Mr. Evans.
When we came to his houfe, he having
been drunk the night before, was upon
his bed, if it be lawful to call that a bed
whereon he then lay ; he roufed up him-
felf, and, after fome compliments, he was
content to inftruft me in aftrology ; I
attended his beft opportunities for feven
or eight weeks, in which time I could
fet a figure perfectly : Books he had not
any, except Haly de judiciis Aftrorum,
and Orriganus's Ephemerides ; fo that
as often as I entered his houfe, I thought
I was in the Wildernefs. Nowfomething
of the man : He was by birth a Welfh-
man, a Mafter of Arts, and in facred
orders; he had formerly had a cure of
fouls in Staffordfhire, but now was come
to try his fortunes at London, being in a
manner enforced to fly for fome offences
very fcandalous committed by him in
thefe parts, where hu had lately lived.;
of his Life and Times. 31
for he gave judgment upon things loft,
the only fhame of aftrology : He was the
moft faturnine perfon my eyes ever be-
held, either before I pra&ifed or fmce
;
of a middle ftature, broad forehead, beetle-
browed, thick fhoulders, flat nofed, full
lips, down-looked, black curling ftiff
hair, fplay-footed ; to give him his right,
he had the moft piercing judgment na-
turally upon a figure of theft, and many
other queftions, that I ever met withal
;
yet for money he would willingly give
contrary judgments, was much addifted
to debauchery, and then very abufive and
quarrelfome, feldom without a black eye,
or one mifchief or other : This is the
fame Evans who made fo many antimo-
nial cups, upon the fale whereof he prin-
cipally fubfifted ; he underftood Latin very
well, the Greek tongue not at all: He
had fome arts above, and beyond aftro-
logy, for he was well verfed in the na-
ture of fpirits, and had many times ufed
the circular way of invocating, as in the
time of our familiarity he told me. Two
of his aftions I will relate, as to me de-
livered. There was in StafFordlhire a
young gentlewoman that had, for her
preferment, married an aged rich perfon,
who being defirous to purchafe fome
lands for his wife's maintenance ; but
this young gentlewoman, his wife, was
defired
32 Mr. Lilly's History
defired to buy the land in the name of a
gentleman, her very dear friend, but
for her ufe : After the aged man was
•dead, the widow could by no means pro-
cure the deed of purchafe from her friend;
whereupon {he applies herfelf to Evans,
who, for a fum of money, promifes to
have her deed fafely delivered into her
own hands ; the fum was forty pounds.
Evans applies himfelf to the invocation
of the angel Salmon, of the nature of
Mars, reads his Litany in the Common-
Prayer-Book every day, at feleft hours,
wears his furplice, lives orderly all that
time ; at the fortnight's end Salmon ap-
peared, and having received his com-
mands what to do, in a fmall time re-
turns with the very deed defired, lays it
down gently upon a table where a white
cloth was fpread, and then, being dif-
miffed, vanifhcd. The deed was, by the
gentleman who formerly kept it, placed
among many other of his evidences in a
large wooden cheft, and in a chamber at
one end of the houfe ; but upon Salmon's
removing and bringing away the deed, all
that bay of building was quite blown down,
and all his own proper evidences torn all to
pieces. The fecond ftory folioweth.
Some time before I became acquainted
with him, he then living in the Mino-
ries, was defired by the Lord Bothwell
and
of his Life and Times. 33
and Sir Kenelm Digby to fhow them a
fpirit. He promifed fo to do : the time
came, and they were all in the body of
the circle, when lo, upon a fudden, after
fome time of invocation, Evans was taken
from out the room, and carried into the
field near Batterfea Caufeway, clofe to the
Thames. Next morning a countryman
going by to his labour, and efpying a man
in black cloaths, came unto him and
awaked him, and afked him how he came
there ? Evans by this underftood his con-
dition, enquired where he was, how far
from London, and in what parifh he was
;
which when he underftood, he told the
labourer he had been late at Batterfea the
night before, and by chance was left there
by his friends. Sir Kenelm Digby and
the Lord Bothwell went home without
any harm, came next day to hear what
was become v * him; juft as they in the
afternoon came into the houfe, a meffen-
ger came from Evans to his wife, to come
to him at Batterfea. I enquired upon
what account the fpirit carried him away
:
who faid, he had not, at the time of in
vocation, made any fuffumigation, at
which the fpirits were vexed. It hap-
pened, that after I difcerned what aftro-
logy was, I went weekly into Little-
Britain, and bought many books of aftro-
logy, not acquainting Evans therewith.
D Mr.
34 Mr. Lilly's History
Mr. A. Eedwell, Minifter of Tottenham^
High-Crofs near London, who had been
many years chaplain to Sir Henry Wot-
ton, whilft he was Ambafiador at Venke>
and aflifced Pietro Soave Polano, in com-
pering and writing the Council of Trent,
was lately dead ; and his library being
fold into Little- Britain, I bought a-
mongft them my choicefi books of aftro-
logy. The occafion of our falling out
was thus : a woman demanded the re-
folution of a queftion, which when he
had done, Are went her way ; I {landing
by all the while, and observing the figure,
afked him why he gave the judgment he
did, fince the figmfication fhewed quite the
contrary, and gave him my reafons ; which
when he had pondered, he called me boy,
•and muft he be contradicted by fueh a
novice ? But when his heat was aver, he
laid, had he not fo judged to pleafe the
woman, fixe would have given him nor-
thing, and he had a wife and family to
provide for ; upon this we never came
together after. Being now very meanly
introduced, I applied myfelf to ltudy thofe
books I had obtained, many times twelve,
or fifteen, or eighteen hours day and
night ; I was curious to difcover, whe-
ther there was any verity in the art or
not. Aftrology in this time, viz. in 1633,
was very rare in London, few profeffing.
of his Life and Times. 35
it that underftood any thing thereof.
Let it not repent you (O noble Efquire)
if now I make a fliort digreffion of fuch
perfons as then profefled aftrology, that
pofterity may underftand in what condi-
tion I found it, and in whofe hands that
little that remained was lodged.
There lived then in Houndfditch one
Alexander Hart, who had been a foldier
formerly, a comely old man, of good
afpeft ; he profefled queftionary aftrology,
and a little of phyfick; his greateft fkill
was to eledt young gentlemen fit times to
play at dice, that they might win or get
money. I went unto him for refolutions
for three queftions at feveral times, and
he erred in every one. To fpeak foberly
of him, he was but a cheat, as appeared
fuddenly after; for a ruftical fellow of
the city, defirous of knowledge, con-
tracted with Hart to affift for a confe-
rence with a fpirit, and paid him twenty
pounds of thirty pounds the contraft.
At laft, after many delays, and no fpirit
appearing, or money returned, the young
man indi£ls him for a cheat at the Old-
Bailey in London; the Jury found the
bill, and at the hearing of the caufe this
jell happened : fome of the bench enquired
what Hart did ? * He fat like an Alderman
* in his gown/ quoth the fellow 5 at which
D 2 the
36 Mr. Lilly's History
the court fell into a great laughter, moft
of the court being Aldermen. He was
to have been fet upon the pillory for this
cheat ; but John Taylour, the Water Poet,
being his great friend, got the Lord Chief
Juftice Richardfon to bail him, ere he
flood upon the pillory, and fo Hart fled
prefently into Holland, where he ended
his days. It was my fortune, upon the
fale of his books in 1634, to buy ArgolFs
Primum Mobile for fourteen {hillings,
which I only wanted.
In Lambeth Marfh at the fame time
lived one Captain Bubb, who refolved
horary queftions aftrologically ; a proper
handfome man, well fpoken, but withal
covetous, and of no honefty, as will ap-
pear by this ftory, for which he flood
upon the pillory. A certain butcher was
robbed, going to a fair, of forty pounds
;
he goes to Bubb, who for ten pounds
in hand paid, would help him to the
*hief ; appoints the butcher fuch a night
precifely, to watch at fuch a place, and
the thief fhould come thither -> command-
ed him by any means to flop him ; the
butcher attends according to dire<5tion.
About twelve in the night there comes
one riding very fiercely upon a full gal-
lop, whom the butcher knocks down,
and feized both upon man and horfe
:
The
of his Life and Times. 37
The butcher brings the man and horfe
to the next town, but then the perfon
whom the butcher attacked was John,
the fervant of Dr. Bubb ; for which the
Captain was indifted and fuffered upon
the pillory, and afterwards ended his
days in great difgrace.
There was alfo one Jeffry Neve, at
this time a ftudent in phyfick and aftro-
logy ; he had formerly been a merchant in
Yarmouth, and Mayor of the town, but
failing in eftate, went into the Low-
Countries, and at Franecker took the
degree of Doctor in Phyfick ; he had
fome little fmattering in aftrology ; could
refolve a queftion of theft, or love-quef-
tion, fomething of ficknefs ; a very grave
perfon, laborious and honeft, of tall fea-
ture and comely feature ; he died of late
years, almoft in the very ftreet near Tower-
Hill : He had a defign of printing two
hundred verified queftions, and defired my
approbation ere they went to the prefs ;
that I firft would fee them, and then
give teftirriony. When I had perufed
the firft forty, I corrected thirty of
them, would read over no more : I
ihev/ed him how erroneous they were,
defired his emendation of the reft, which
he performed not. Thefe were after-
wards, in R. Saunders's cuftody, bought
D 3 by
38 Mr. Lilly's History
by him either of his fon or of a ftati-
oner: (a)
There was then William Poole, g.
nibler at aftrology, fometimes a gardener,
an apparitor, a drawer of linen ; as quoifs,
handkerchiefs; a plaifterer and a brick-
layer ; he would brag many times he had
been of feventeen profeffions ; was very
good company for drolling, as you your-
lelf very well remember (moft honoured
Sir) ; (b) he pretended to poetry and
that pofterity may have a tafte of it, you
(hall here have inferted two verfes of his
own making; the occafion of making
them was thus. One Sir Thomas Jay,
a Juftice of the Peace in Rofemary-Lane,
iflued out his warrant for the apprehen-
fion of Poole, upon a pretended fuggef-
tion, that he was in company with fome
lewd people in a Tavern, where a filver
cup was loft, Anglice ftolen. Poole
hearing of the warrant, packs up his
little trunk of books, being all his library,
and runs to Weftminfter ; but hearing
fome months after that the Juftice was
dead and buried, he came and enquired
(a) But firft offered to be fold to me for twenty
(hillings. When Mr. Saunders died I bought them of
his fon for Iefs. —E. A .
(b) 17 December this William Poole was married
to Alice How, at Sr. George's Church in Southwark.
Mr. Lilly gave her to him.
where
of his Life and Times, 39^
where the grave was ; and after the dif-
charge of his belly upon the grave, left
theft two verfes upon it, which he fwore
he made himielr r
Here lieth buried Sir Thomas Jay, Knight,
Who being dead, I upon his grave did (kite.
He died about 1651, or 1652, at St.
Mary Overy's in Southwark ; and this
was part of his laft will.
' Item; I give to Dr. Ardee all mybooks,
* and one manufcript of my own, worth
< one hundred of Lilly's Introduction.'
i Item ; If Dr. Ardee give my wife any
* thing that is mine, I wifh the devil may
« fetch him body and foul/ The Doftor,
terrified with this curfe, gave me all the
books and his goods, which I prefently
gave to his widow,
—
Ititej-dum feria jocis*
Now alfo lived this Dr. Ardee, but his
true name was Richard Delahay, formerly
an Attorney; he ftudied aftrology and
phyfick, being in neceffity, and forced
from Derbyfhire, where he had lived,
by the old Countefs of Shrewfbury; he
was of moderate judgment, both in altro-
lo.gy and phyfick. He had formerly been
well acquainted with Charles Sledd, (a)
(a) Of this Charles Sledd, there is mention made
in Dr. Dee's book of his difcourfe with f^irits, fet forth
by Dr. Caufabon, page 17.
D 4 an
40 Mr. Lilly's History
an apothecary, who ufed the cryftal, and
had a very perfeft fight. This Dr. Ardee
hath many times affirmed unto me, [efto
fides) that an angel, one time, appeared
unto him, and offered him a leafe of his
life for one thoufand years : he died about
the age of fourfcore years ; left his wi-
dow, who married into Kent, (a) worth
two or three thoufand pounds, and Wil-
liam Poole's eftate came to four or five
pounds.
In the years 1632, and 1633, John
Booker became famous for a prediction
of his upon a folar eclipfe in the 19th
degree of Aries 1663, taken out of
Leovitius de magnis conjun&ionibus, viz.
Oh Reges & Principes, &c. Both the King
of Bohemia, and Guftavus King of
Sweden, dying during the effefts of that
eclipfe.
John Booker was born in Manchefter,
of good parentage, in the year 1601 ; was
in his youth well inftrufted in the Latin
tongue, which he underftood very well
:
He leemed from his infancy to be defign-
ed for aftrology ; for from the time he
had any underftanding, he would be al-
ways poring on, and ftudying almanacks,.
He came to London at fitting years, and
ferved an apprenticefhip to an haber-
(a) To one Moreland.
daflier
of his Life and Times. 41
dafher in Laurence-Lane, London ; but
either wanting ftock to fet up, difliking
the calling, he left his trade, and taught
to write at Hadley in Middlefex feveral
fcholars in that fchool: He wrote Angu-
larly well both Secretary and Roman,
In procefs of time he ferved Sir Chrifto-
pher Clethero, Knight, Alderman of
London, as his clerk, being a city Juf-
tice of Peace : He alfo was clerk to Sir
Hugh Hammerfley, Alderman of Lon-
don, both which he ferved with great
credit and eftimation ; and by that means
became not only well known, but as well
refpefted of the moft eminent citizens of
London, even to his dying day.
He was an excellent proficient in aftro-
logy, whofe excellent verfes upon the
twelve months, framed according to the
configurations of each month, being blef-
fed with fuccefs according to his pre-
diftions, procured him much reputation
all over England : He was a very honeft
man, abhorred any deceit in the art he
ftudied ; had a curious fancy in judging
of thefts, and as fuccefsful in refolving
love-queftions : He was no mean profi-
cient in aftronomy ; he underftood much
in phyfick ; was a great admirer of the
antimonial cup; not unlearned in chy-
miftry, which he loved well, but did not
pra&ife. He was inclined to a diabetes
;
ar.d
42 Mr. Lilly's History
and in the laft three years of his life was
afflicted with a dyfentery, which at laft
confumed him to nothing: He died of
good fame in 1667. Since his deceafe I
have feen one nativity of his performance
exaftly directed, and judged with as much
learning as from aftrology can be ex-
pefted.
His library of books came fhort of the
worlds approbation, and were by his
widow fold to Elias Afhmole, Efq; who
moft generoufly gave her [a) far more
money than they were worth ; but out of
his refpefts unto the deceafed and his
memory, he moft willingly paid her the
money. He left behind him two fons
and two daughters. He left in writing
very little but his annual prognostications.
He began firft to write about the year
1630 ; he wrote Belliim Hibernicale, in
the time of the long parliament, a very
fober and judicious book : the epiftle there-
unto I gave him. He wrote lately a
fmall treatife of Eafter- Day, a very learned
thing, wherein he fhewed much learning
and reading. To fay no more of him,
he lived an honeft man, his fame not
queftioned at his death.
In this year 1633, I became acquainted
with Nicholas Filke, licentiate in phyfick,
(a) They ccft me 140 pounds.
who
of his Life and Times. 43
who was born in Suffolk, near Framing-
ham (b) Caflle, of very good parentage,
who educated him at country fchools,
until he was fit for the univerfity ; but
he went not to the academy, ftudying at;
home both aftrqlogy and phyfick, which
he afterwards praftifed in Colchefter;
and there was well acquainted with Dr.
Gilbert, who wrote De Magnete. He
came afterwards unto London, and exer-
-cifed his faculty in feveral places thereof.
(For in his youth he would never ftay
iong in one houfe.) In 1633 he was fent
for out of Suffolk by Dr. Winfton of
Grefham College, to inftiuft the Lord
Treafurer Wefton's fon in arithmetick,
aftronomy upon the globes, and their
ufes. He was a perfon very ftudious,
laborious, of good apprehenfion, and had
by his own induftry obtained both in
aftrology, phyfick, arithmetick, aftro-
nomy, geometry and algebra, lingular
judgment : He would in aftrology refolve
horary queftions very foundly ; but was
ever diffident of his own abilities : He
was exquifitely fkilful in the art of direc-
tions upon nativities, and had a good
genius in performing judgment thereupon,
fiut very unhappy he was, that he had
(b) There is no fuch place in Suffolk, it being
fnifhfcen for Framlingham in that county,
no
44 Mr. Lilly's History
no genius in teaching his fcholars, for
he never perfefted any: his own fon
Matthew hath often told me, that where
his father did teach any fcholars in his
time, they would principally learn of him
;
he had Scorpio afcending, and was fe-
cretly envious to thofe he thought had
more parts than himfelf; however, I
muft be ingenuous, and do affirm, that
by frequent converfation with him, I
came to know which were the beft au-
thors, and much to enlarge my judg-
ment, efpecially in the art of dire&ions
:
He vifited me moft days once after I
became acquainted with him, and would
communicate his moft doubtful queftions
unto me, and accept of my judgment
therein rather than his own : He lingu-
larly well judged and dire£ted Sir Robert
Holborn's nativity, but defired me to
adjudge the firft houfe, feventh and tenth
thereof, which I did, and which nativity
(fince Sir Robert gave it me) came to
your hands, and remains in your library
[oh learned Efquire] he died about the
feventy-eighth year of his age, poor.
In this year alfo William Bredon, par-
fon or vicar of Thornton in Buckingham-
shire, was living, a profound divine, but
abfolutely the moft polite perfon for na-
tivities in that age, ftriftly adhering tQ
Ptolomy, which he well underftood; he
of his Life and Times. 45
had a hand in compofing Sir Chriftopher
Heydon's defence of judicial aftrology,
being that time his chaplain; he was lo
given over to tobacco and drink, that
when he Jiad no tobacco, he would cut
the bell-ropes and fmoke them.
I come now to continue the ftory of
my own life, but thought it not incon-
venient to commit unto memory fome-
thing concerning thofe perfons who prac-
tifed when firfl- I became a ftudent in
aftrology ; I have wrote nothing concern-
ing any of them, which I myfelf do not
cither know, or believe to be true.
In Oftober 1633 my firfl: wife died,
and left me whatever was hers : it was
confiderable, very near to the value of
one thoufand pounds.
One whole year and more I continued
a widower, and followed my ftudies very
hard ; during which time a fcholar pawn-
ed unto me, for forty fhillings, Ars
Notoria, (a) a large volume wrote in
parchment, with the names of thofe an-
gels, and their piftures, which are thought
and believed by wife men, to teach and
inftruft in all the feveral liberal fciences,
and is attained by obferving elefted times>
(a) Among Dr. Napier's MSS. I had an Ars No-
toria, written by S. Forman in large vellum.
and
46 Mr. Lilly's History
and thofe prayers appropriated unto the
feveral angels.
I do ingenuoufly acknowledge* I ufed
thofe prayers according to the form and
direction prefcribed for forne weeks, ufing
the word aitrologia for aftronomia ; but of
this no more : That Ars Notoria, inferted
in the latter end of Cornelius Agrippa
fignifieth nothing ; many of the prayers
being not the fame, nor is the direction
to thefe prayers any thing confiderable.
In the year 1634, I taught Sir George
Peckham, Knight, aftrology, that part
which concerns ficknefs, wherein he fo
profited, that in two or three months he
would give a very true difcovery of any
difeafe, only by his figures : He praftifed
in Nottingham, but unfortunately died
in 1635, at St. Winifred's Well in Wales ;
in which well he continued fo long mum-
bling his Pater Nojlers and SanSia Wini-
frida ora pro me, that the cold {truck into
his body and, after his coming forth
of that well, nevef fpoke more.
In this year 1634, I purchafed the
moiety of thirteen houfes in the Strand
for five hundred and thirty pounds.
In November, the 18th day, I was
again the fecond time married, and had
five hundred pounds portion with that
wife; fhe was of the nature of Mars.
Two
of his Life A'nij Times. 47
Two accidents happened to me in that
year fomethin-g memorable.
Davy Ramfey, his Majefty's clock-
maker, had been informed, that there
was a great quantity of treafure buried
in the cloyfter of Weftminfter-Abbey >
he acquaints Dean Williams therewith,
who was alfo then Biftiop of Lincoln
;
the Dean gave him liberty to fearch after
it, with this provifo, that if any was
difcovered, his church fhould have a
fhare of it. Davy Ramfey finds out one
John Scott, (a) who pretended the ufe of
the Mofaical rods, to affift him herein : I
was defired to join with him, unto which
I confented. One winter's night Davy
Ramfey, with feveral gentlemen, myfelf,
and Scott, entered the cloyfters ; we
played the hazel-rod round about the
cloyfter ; upon the weft-fide of the cloy-
fters the rods turned one over another,
an argument that the treafure was there
:
The labourers digged at leaft fix foot
deep, and then we met with a coffin ;
but in regard it was not heavy, we did
iiot open, which we afterwards much
repented : From the cloyfters we went
into the Abbey church, where, upon a
fudden, (there being no wind when we
(a) This Scott lived in Pudding- Lane, and had
fome time been a page {or fucli likeJ to the Lord
Nonis.
began)
48 Mr. Lilly's History
began) fo fierce, fo high, fo Muttering
and loud a wind did rife, that we verily
believed the weft- end of the church would
have fallen upon us ; our rods would not
move at all ; the candles and torches, all
but one, were extinguifhed, or burned
very dimly : (a) John Scott, my partner,
was amazed, looked pale, knew not what
to think or do, until I gave directions
and command to difmifs the Daemons;
which when done, all was quiet again,
and each man returned unto his lodging
late, about twelve o'clock at night; I
could never fmce be induced to join with
any in fuch-like aftions.
The true mifcarriage of the bufmefs,
was by reafon of fo many people being
prefent at the operation ; for there was
above thirty, fome laughing, others de-
riding us ; fo that if we had not difmifTed
the Daemons, I believe moft part of the
Abbey church had been blown down;
fecrecy and intelligent operators, with a
ftrong confidence and knowledge of what
they are doing, are beft for this work.
In 1634, or 1635, a Lady living in
Greenwich, who had tried all the known
artifts in London, but to no purpofe,
came weeping and lamenting her con-
(a) Davy Ramfey brought an half quartern fack to
put the treafure in.
dition,
of his Life and Times. 49
dition, which was this : She had per-
mitted a young Lord to have the ufe of
her body, till (he was with child by him
;
after which time he could not or would
not endure her fight, but commanded his
lacquies and fervants to keep his doors
faft (hut, left ftie fhould get into his
chamber ; or if they chanced to fee her
near his lodging, to drive her away, which
they feveral times had done. Her defire
unto me was to allift her to fee him,
and then fhe fhould be content; where-
upon I ordered fuch a day, fuch an hour
of that day, to try her fortune once more.
She obeyed; and when {he came to the
King's Bench, where the Lord there was
imprifoned, the outward door flood wide
open : none fpeaking a word unto her,
fhe went up flairs, no body molefting her ;
fhe found the Lord's chamber door wide
open: he in bed, not a fervant to be heard
or feen, fo fhe was pleafed. Three days
after fhe came to acquaint me with her
fuccefs, and then drew out of her pocket
a paper full of rat{bane, which, had fhe
not had admiffion unto him that day
I appointed, {he would in a pint of
white wine have drank at the flair's foot
where the Lord lodged. The like mif-
fortune befell her after that; when the
Lord was out of the prifon : then I or-
dered her fuch a day to §0 and fee a play
E
50 Mr. Lilly's Historv
at Salifbury-Court ; which fhe did, and
within one quarter of an hour the Lord
came into the fame box wherein fhe was.
But I grew weary of fuch employments,
and fmce have burned my books which
inftru&ed thefe curiofities : For after that
"ime melancholiy, very much affli&ed
he hypocondraick melancholiy, grow-
ing lean and fpare, and every day worfe ;
10 that in the year 1635 my infirmity
c >ntmuing, and my acquaintance increa-
sing, I relblved to live in the country,
and in March and April 1636 removed
my goods unto Hermam, where I now
live; and in May my perfon, where I
continued until 1641, no notice being
taken who, or what I was.
In the years 1637 and 1638, I had
great lawfuits both in the Exchequer and
Chancery, about a leafe I had of the an-
nual value of eighty pounds : I got the
viftory.
In the year 1640 I inftructed John
Humphreys, mafter of that art, in the
ftudy of aftrology : upon this occafion,
being at London, by accident in Fleet-
Street, I met Dr. Percival Willoughby of
Derby ; we were of old acquaintan c, and
he but by great chance lately '.ome to
town, we went to the Mitre-Tavern in
Fleet-Steeet, where I fent for old Will
Poole the aitrologer, living then in Ram -
Alley :
of his Life and Times, 51
Alley : being come to us, the Doctor pro-
duced a bill, fet forth by a mafter of
arts in Cambridge, intimating his abilities
for refolving of all manner of queftions
aftrologically : The bill was fhewed, and
I wondering at it, Poole made anfwer,
he knew the man, and that he was a
filly fool j
«
V quoth he, * can do more
k
than he ; he fees me every day, he will
c
be here by and by / and indeed he came
into our room prefently: Poole had juft
as we came to him fet a figure, and then
fhewed it me, defiring my judgment;
which I refufed, but defired the mafter
of arts to judge firft; he denied, fo I
gave mine, to the very great liking of
Humphreys, who prefently enquired, if
I would teach him, and for what ? I
told him I was willing to teach, but
would have one hundred pounds. I heard
Poole, whilft I was judging the figure,
whifper in Humphreys's ear, and. fwear
I was the beft in England. Staying three
or four days in town, at laft we con-
tracted for forty pounds, for I could
never be quiet from his folicitations ; he
invited me to fupper, and before I had
fhewed him any thing, paid me thirty five
pounds. As we were at fupper a client
came to fpeak with him, and fo up into
his clofet he went with his client ; I called
him in before he fet his figure, or refolved
E 2 1 the
52 Mr. Lilly's History
the queftion, and inftantly acquainted
him how he fhould difcover the moles or
marks of his client ; he fet his figure, and
prefently difcovers four moles the que-
rent had ; and was fo overjoyed there-
with, that he came tumbling down the
ftairs, crying, 6
Four by G—, four by
' G—, I will not take one hundred pounds
* for this one rule:' In fix weeks time,
and tarrying with him three days in a
week, he became a moft judicious perfon.
This Humphreys was a laborious per-
fon, vain-glorious, loquacious, fool-hardy,
defirous of all fecrets v. hich he knew not,
infomueh that he would have given me
two hundred pounds to have inftrufted
Km in fome curiofities he was perfuaded
I had knowledge of, but, Artis ejl celere
6>rtcw> eipecially to thofe who live not in
the fear of God, or can be mafters of
their own counfels : He was in perfon
and condition fu.ch another as that mon-
fter of ingratitude my quondam taylor*
John Gadbury.. After my refufal of
teaching him, what he was not capable
of, we grew (trange, though I afforded
him many "civilities whenever he required
it ; for after the fiege of Colchefter he
wrote a book againft me, called Anti
IVlcrlinus-Anglicus, married a fecond wife,
his firft living . in Cambridgeihire, then
praftiLed phyiick by a contrary name,
: L - .
* having
of his Life and Times. 5^
having intentions to pra£tife in Ireland-
he went to Briftol, but there underftand
;
ing the parliament's forces had reduced
that kingdom, he came back to London,
but durft not abide therein but running
from his fecond wife, who alfo had ano-
ther hufband, he went to fea, with in-
tention for Barbadoes, but died by the
way in his voyage. I had never feen
John Booker at that time ; but telling
him one day I had a defire to fee him,
but firft, ere I would fpeak with him, I
would fit myfelf with my old rules, and
rub up my aftrology; for at that time
[and this was 1640] I thought John
Booker the greateft andmoft compleataftro-
loger in the world. My fcholar Hum-
phreys prefently made anfwer, < Tutor, you
4
need not pump for any of your former
* knowledge, John Booker is no fuch
* pumper ; we met/ faith he, f the other
* day, and I was too hard for him myfelf,
f upon judgment of three or four quef-
< tions.' If all the tranfaftions happen-
ing unto that my fcholar were in one
volume, they would tranfcend either Guz-
man, Don Quixote, Lazarillo de Tor-
mes, or any other of the like nature I
ever did fee.
Having now in part recovered my
health, being weary of the country, and
perceiving there was money to be got in
E 3 London,
54 Mr. Lilly's History
London, and thinking myfelf to be as
fufficiently enabled in aftrology as any
I could meet with, I made it my bufi-
nefs to repair thither ; and lb in Septem-
ber 1 641 I did; where, in the years
1642 and 1643, I had great leifure to
better my former knowledge : I then
read over all my books of aftrology, over
and over ; had very little or no practice
at all : And whereas formerly I could
never endure to read Valentine Naibod's
Commentary upon Alcabitius, now hav-
ing ferioufly ftudied him, I found him
to be the profoundeft author I ever met
with ; him I traverfed over day and night,
from whom I muft acknowledge to have
advanced my judgment and knowledge
unto that height I foon after arrived at,
or unto: A moft rational author, and
the fharpeft expofitor of Ptolomy that
hath yet appeared. To exercife my ge-
nius, I began to collect notes, and
thought of writing fome little thing
upon the 6 of T? and v then approach-
ing : I had not wrote above one fheet,
and that very meanly, but James Lord
Galloway came to fee me 3 and, by chance,
cafting his eyes upon that rude collec-
tion, he read it over, and fo approved
of it, yea, fo encouraged me to proceed
farther, that then, and after that time,
I fpent moft of my time in compofing
thereof
of his Life and Times. 55
thereof, and bringing it, in the end, into
that method wherein it was printed 1
044.
I do ferioufly now profefs, I had not the
afliftance of any perfon living, in the
writing or compofing thereof. Mr. Fifke
fent me a fmall manufcript which had
been Sir Chriftopher Heydon's, who
had wrote fomething of the conjuftion
of T? and 1603 ; out of which, to
bring my method in order, I tranferibed,
in the beginning, five or fix lines, and
not any more, though that gracelefs fel-
low Gadbury wrote the contrary ; but,
Seme/ & femper nebula & mendax. I did
formerly write one treatife, in the year
1639, upon the eclipfe of the fun, in the
nth degree of Gemini, 22 May 1639:
It confifted of fix fheets of paper. But
that manufcript I gave unto my moft
munificent patron, and ever bountiful
friend William Pennington, of Mun-
cafter in Cumberland, Efq; a wife and
excellently learned perfon * who, from
the year 1634, even till he died, conti-
nued unto me the moft grateful perfon I
ever was acquainted with. I became
acquainted with him by means of Davy
Ramfey.
Oh ! njoft noble Efquire, let me now
beg your pardon, if I digrefs for fome
fmall time, in commemorating his boun-
ty unto me, and my requital of his
E 4 friendfhip,
56 Mr. Lilly's History
friendfhip, by performing many things
fuccefsfully for his advantage.
In 1639 he was made captain, and
ferved His Majefly in his then wars a-
gainft the Scots ; during which time a
farmer's daughter being delivered of a
baftard, and hearing, by report, that he
was flain, fathered the child upon him.
Shortly after he returned, moft woefully
vexed to be thus abufed, when abfent.
The woman was countenanced by fome
gentlemen of Cumberland, in this her
villany againft him ; fo that, notwith-
ftanding he had warrants to attach her
body, he could never difcover her : But
yet, hunting her from one place to ano-
ther, her friends thought it moft con-
venient to fend her to London, where
{he might be in moft fafety. She came
up to the city, and immediately I had
notice thereof, and the care of that mat-
ter left unto me. I procured the Lord
Chief Juftice Bramfton's warrant, and
had it lying dormant by me. She had
not been in the city above one fortnight,
but that I, going cafually to the clerk of
the affizes office for Cumberland, faw
there an handfome woman ; and hearing
of her fpeak the northern tone, I conr-
eluded the was the party I did fo want.
I rounded the clerk in his ear, and told
him I would give him five fhillings to
of his Life and Times. 57
hold the woman in chat till I came
again, for I had a writing concerned
her. I hafted for my warrant, and a
conftable, and returned into the office,
feized her perfon before the clerk of the
aflizes, who was very angry with me :
It was then feffions at Old-Bayley, and
neither Judge nor Juftice to be found.
At night we carried her before the Re-
corder, Gardner. It being Saturday at
night, fhe, having no bail, was fent to
Bridewell, where fhe remained till Mon-
day. On Monday morning, at the Old-
Bayley, fhe produced bail ; but I defiring
of the Recorder fome time to enquire
after the bail, whether they were fuffi-
cient, returned prefently, and told him
one of the bail was a prifoner in Lud-
gate, the other a very poor man : At
which he was fo vexed, that he fent her
to Newgate, where fhe lay all that week,
until fhe could pleafe me with good fure-
ties ; which then fhe did, and fo was
bound over to appear at the next aflizes
in Cumberland ; which fhe did, and was
there fentenced to be whipped, and im-
prifoned one whole year.
This aftion infinitely pleafed Mr. Pen-
nington, who thought I could do won-
ders y and I was moft thankfully requited
for it. All the while of this fcandalous
fcufmefs, do what he could, he could not
difcover
58 Mr. Lilly's History
difcover what perfons they were that fup-
ported her ; but the woman's father com-
ing to town, I became acquainted with
him, by the name of Mr. Sute, mer-
chant; invited him to a dinner; got
George Farmer with me; when we fo
plied him with wine, he could neither
fee or feel. I paid the reckoning, being
twenty two (hillings. But next morning
the poor man had never a writing or
letter in his pocket. I fent them down
to my friend, who thereby difcovered the
plots of feveral gentlemen in the bufinefs ;
after which, Mr. Sute returned tp his
pld name again.
Mr. Pennington was a true royalift,
whom Charles the Second made one of
his Commiffioners of Array for Cumber-
land. Having directions from me con-
tinually how matters did and would go
betwixt the King 'and Parliament, he
afted v^arily, and did but fign one only
warrant, of that nature, and then gave
over. When the times of fequeftrations
came, one John Mufgrave, the moft bold
and impudent fellow, and moft aftive of
all the north of England, and moft mali-
cious againft my friend, had got this
warrant under Mr. Pennington's hand
into his cuftody ; which affrighted my
friend, and fo it might, for it was caufe
enough of fequeftratiqn, ai;d would have
done
of his Life and Times. 59
done it. Mufgrave intending and pro-
mifing himfelf great matters out of his
eftate, I was made acquainted herewith.
Mufgrave being in London, by much
ado, I got acquainted with him, pretend-
ing myieif a bitter enemy againft Pen-
nington, whereat he very heartily re-
joiced ; and fo we appointed one night
to meet at the Five Bells, to compare
notes; for I pretended much. We did
meet, and he very fuddenly produced upon
the table all his papers, and withal, the
warrant of array unto which my friend
had fet his hand ; which when I faw, c
I
marry/ faid I, ' this is his hand I will
f fwear \ now have at all ; come, the other
f cup, this warrant fhall pay for all/ I
pbferved where the warrant lay upon the
table, and, after fome time took occafion
ignorantly to let the candle fall out, which
whilft he went to light again at the
fire, I made fure of the warrant, and
put it into my boot ; he never miffing it
of eight or ten days ; about which time,
I believe, it was above half way towards
Cumberland, for I inftantly fent it by the
poft, with this friendly caveat, * Sin no
f more/ Mufgrave durft not challenge
me in thofe times, and fo the bufinefs
was ended very fatisfaftory to his friend,
and no lefs to myfelf.
He
66 Mr. Lilly's History
He was, befides, extreamly abufed by
one Ifaac Antrobus, parfon of Egremond,
a moft evil liver, bold, and very rich ; at
laft he procured a minifter of that coun-
try, in hope of the parfonage, to article
againft him in London, before the com-
mittee of plundered minifters. I was
once more invited to follicit againft An-
trobus, which I did upon three or more
articles.
I. That Antrobus baptized a cock, and
called him Peter.
II. He had knowledge of fuch a wo-
man and of her daughter, viz. of both
their bodies, in as large a manner as ever
of his own wife.
III. Being drunk, a woman took a cord
and tied it about his privy members unto
a manger in a ftable.
IV. Being a continual drunkard,
V. He never preached, &e.
Antrobus was now become a great
champion for the Parliament ; but, at
the day of hearing, I had procured abun-
dance of my friends to be there ; for the
godly, as they termed themfelves, fided
with him ; the prefent Mafter of the Rolls
was Chairman that day, Sir Harbottle
Grimfton.
Who
of his Life and Times. 6%
Who hearing the foulnefs of the caufe,
was very much afhamed thereof. I re-
member Antrobus, being there, pleaded
he was in his natural condition when he
acted fo ungracioufly.
'
What condition were you in/ faid
the Chairman, ' when you lay with mo-
* ther and daughter ?'
* There is no proof of that/ faith he.
* None but your own confeffion/ faid
the Chairman, '
nor could any tell fo
< well.'
' I am not given to drunkennefs/ quoth
he. * He was fo drunk within this fort-
*
night' quoth I, ' he reeled from one
' fide of the ftreet to the other ; here is
* the witnefs to prove it
:'
who prefently,
before the committee, being fworn, made
it good, and named the place and ftreet
where he was drunk. So he was ad-
judged fcandalous, and outed of his be-
nefice, and our minifter had the parfo-
nage.
You cannot imagine how much the
routing of this drunken parfon pleafed
Mr. Pennington, who paid all charges
munificently and thankfully.
But now follows the laft and greateft
kindnefs I ever did him. Notwithftanding
the committee for fequeftrations in Cum-
berland were his very good friends, yet
the fub-fequeftrators, of their own heads,
62 Mr. Lilly's History
and without order, and by ftrength of
arms, fecured his iron, his wood, and
fo much of his perfonal eftate as was
valued at feven thoufand pounds. Now
had I complaint upon complaint : would
I fuffer my old friend to be thus abufed ?
it was in my power to free him from thefe
villains.
I hereupon advifed what was beft to
do, and was counfelled to get Mr. Speaker
Lenthall's letter to the fub-fequeftrators,
and command them to be obedient to the
committee of the county.
Whereupon, I framed a letter myfelf,
unto the fub-fequeftrators direfted, and
with it, myfelf and Mr. Laurence Mayd-
well (whom yourfelf well knew) went
to Mr. Speaker, unto whom we fuffi-
ciently related the ftubbornnefs of the
officers of Cumberland ; their difobedience
to the committee ; and then fhewed him
the letter, which when he had read
over, he moft courteoufly figned, adding
withal, that if they proceeded further in
fequeftring Mr. Pennington, he would
command a Serjeant at Arms to bring
them up to anfwer their contempts : I
immediately pofted that letter to my
friend, which when the abfurd fellows
received, they delivered him poffeflion of
his goods again; and, for my pains,
when he came to London, gave me one
hundred
of his Life and Times. $J
Ixundred pounds: He died in 1652, of a
violent fever. I did carefully, in 164a
and 1643, take notice of every grand
a£tion which happened betwixt King and
Parliament, and did firft then incline to
believe, that as all fublunary affairs did
depend upon fuperior caufes, fo there
was a poffibility of difcovering them by
the configurations of the fuperior bodies ;
in which way making fome effays in thofe
two years, I found encouragement to
proceed further, which I did ; I perufed
the writings of the ancients, but therein
they were filent, or gave no fatisfaftion
;
at laft, I framed unto myfelf that me-
thod, which then and fince I follow,
which, I hope, in time may be more per-
fected by a more penetrating perfon than
myfelf.
In 1643, I became familiarly known to
Sir Bulftrode Whitlocke, a member of the
Houfe of Commons ; he being fick, his
urine was brought unto me by Mrs.
Lifle, (a) wife to John Lifle, afterwards
oiie of the keepers of the Great Seal j
(a) She was afterwards beheaded at Winchefter,
for harbouring one Nelthrop, a rebel in the Duke of
Monmouth's army 1685. She had made herfelf re-
markable, by faying at the martyrdom of King Charles
I. 1648, * that her blood leaped within her to fee the
4
tyrant fall for this, when me fell into the ftate trap,
fhe neither did nor could expect favour from any of that
martyr's family. D. N.
having
64 Mr. Lilly's History
having fet my figure, I returned anfwer,
the fick for that time would recover, but
by means of a furfeit would dangeroufly
relapfe within one month ; which he did,
by eating of trouts at Mr. Sand's houfe,
near Leatherhead in Surrey. Then I
went daily to vifit him, Dr. Prideau de-
fpairing of his life ; but I faid there was
no danger thereof, and that he would
be fufficiently well in five or fix weeks
;
and fo he was.
In 1644, I publifhed Merlinus Anglicus
Junior about April. I had given one day
the copy thereof unto the then Mr. Whit-
locke, who by accident was reading there-
of in the Houfe of Commons : ere the
Speaker took the chair, one looked upon
it, and fo did many, and got copies there-
of; which when I heard, I applied my-
felf to John Booker to licenfe it, for then
he was licenfer of all mathematical books ;
I had, to my knowledge, never feen him
before ; he wondered at the book, made
many impertinent obliterations, framed
many objections, fwore it was not pof-
fible to diftinguifh betwixt King and
Parliament; at laft licenfed it according
to his own fancy ; I delivered it unto the
printer, who being an arch Prefbyterian,
had five of the miniftry to infpeft it,
who could make nothing of it, but faid
it might be printed, for in that I meddled
1 not
of his Life and Times. 65
not with their Dagon. The firft im-
preffion was fold in lefs than one week j
when I prefented fome to the members
of Parliament, I complained of John
Booker the licenfer, who had defaced my
book ; they gave me order forthwith to
reprint it as I would, and let them
know if any durfi: refift me in the re-
printing, or adding what I thought fit;
fo the fecond time it came forth as I would
have it*
I mull confefs, I now found my fcho-
lar Humphreys's words to be true con-
cerning John Booker, whom at that time
I found but moderately verfed in aftro-
logy; nor could he take the circles of
pofition of the planets, until in that
year I inftrufted him . After my Introduc-
tion in 1647 became publick, he amended
beyond meafure, by ftudy partly, and
partly upon emulation to keep up his
fame and reputation ; fo that fince 1
647,
I have feen fome nativities by him very
judicioufly performed. When the printer
prefented him with an Introduction of
mine, as foon as they were forth of the
prefs ;
€
I wifh/ faith he, ' there was ne-
* ver another but this in England, con-
6
ditionally I gave one hundred pounds
4
for this/ After that time v/e w&re very
great friends to his <Iying day.
F In
66 Mr. Lilly's History
In June 1644, I publifhed Supernatu-
ral Sight ; and, indeed, if I could have
procured the dull ftationer to have been
at charges to have cut the icon or form
of that prodigious apparition, as I had
drawn it forth, it would have given great
fatisfa6tion ; however, the aftrological
judgment thereupon had its full event in.
every particular.
That year alfo I publifhed the White
King's Prophecy, of which there were fold
in three days eighteen hundred, fo that
it was oft reprinted : I then made no
commentary upon it.
In that year I printed the Prophetical
Merlin, and had eight pounds for the
copy.
I had then no farther intention to trou-
ble the prefs any more, but Sir Richard
Napper having received one of Captain
Wharton's Almanacks for 1645, under
the name Naworth, he came unto me :
' Now, Lilly, you are met withal, lee
6
here what Naworth writes/ The words
were, he called me £
an impudent fenfe-
* lefs fellow, and by name William Lilly.*
Before that time, I was more Cavalier
than Roundhead, and fo taken notice of;
but after that I engaged body and foul
in the caufe of Parliament, but ftill with
much afFe£lion to his Majefty's perfon
of his Life and Times. 67
and unto monarchy, which I ever loved
and approved beyond any government
whatfoever; and you will find in this
ftory many paffages of civility which I
did, and endeavoured to do, with the
hazard of my life, for his Majefty : But
God had ordered all his affairs and coun-
fels to have no fuccefTes ; as in the fequel
will appear.
To vindicate my reputation, and to
cry quittance with Naworth, againft
whom I was highly incenfed, to work
I went again for Anglicus 1645; which
as fooii as finifhed I got to the prefs,
thinking every day one month till it was
publick : I therein made ufe of the King's
nativity, and finding that his afdendant
was approaching to the quadrature of
Mars, about June 1645, I gave this un-
lucky judgment; ' If now we fight, a
* viftory ftealeth upon u§V aiid fo it did
in June 1645, at Nafeby, the moft fatal
overthrow he ever had.
In this year 1645, I publifhed a trea-
tife call the Starry Meflenger, with an
interpretation of three funs feen in Lon-
don 29 May 1644, being Charles the
Second's birth - day : In that book I
alfo put forth an aftrological judgment
concerning the effefts of a folar eclipfe,
vifible the nth of Auguft 1645. Two
days before its publifhing, my antagonift,
F z Captain
68 Mr. Lilly's History
Captain Wharton, having given his aftro-
logical judgment upon his Majefty's pre-
fent march from Oxford j therein again fell
foul againft me and John Booker: Sir
Samuel Luke, Governor of Newport-
pagnel, had the thing came to his gar-
rifon from Oxford, which prefently was
prefented unto my view. I had but
twelve hours, or thereabout, to anfwer
it, which I did with fuch fuccefs as is
incredible; and the printer printed both
the March and my anfwer unto it,
and produced it to fight, with my Starry
Meflenger, which came forth and was
made publick the very day of the Parlia-
ment's great viftory obtained againft his
Majefty in perfon at Nafeby, under the
conduct of the Lord Thomas Fairfax.
That book no fooner appeared, but
within fourteen days complaint was made
to the committee of examinations, Miles
Corbet then being Chairman, my mor-
tal enemy, he who after was hanged,
drawn, and quartered, for being one of
the King's Judges ; he grants his war-
rant, and a meiienger to the Serjeant at
Arms feizeth my perfon. As I was going
to Weftminfter with the melTenger, I met
Sir Philip Stapleton, Sir Chriftopher Wray,
Mr. Denzil Hollis, Mr. Robert Reynolds,
who, by great fortune, had the Starry
Meiienger meet by fheet from me as it
came
of his Life and Times. 69
came from the prefs. They prefently fell
a fmiling at me ;
' Miles Corbel, Lilly,
f
will punifh thee foundly ; but fear no-
' thing, we will dine, and make hafte
' to be at the Committee time enough to do
' the bufmefs and fo they moft honour-
ably performed ; for they, as foon as they
came, fat down, and put Mr. Reynolds
purpofely into the chair, and I was called
in ; but Corbet being not there, they
bid me withdraw until he came ; which
when he did, I was commanded to ap-
pear, and Corbet defired to give the caufe
of my being in reftraint, and of the
Committee's order. Mr. Reynolds was
purpofely put into the chair, and con-
tinued till my bufinefc was over.
Corbet produced my Anglicus of 1645,
and faid there were many fcandalous
paflages therein againft the Commiffioners
of the Excife in London. He produced
one paffage, which being openly read by
himfelf, the whole committee adjudged it
to fignify the errors of fub-officers, but
had no relation to the Commiffioners
themfelves, which I affirmatively main-
tained to be the true meaning as the
committee declared.
Then Corbet found out another dan-
gerous place, as he thought, and the
words were thus in the printed book
—
' In the name of the Father, Son, and
F 3 < Holy
jo Mr. Lilly's History
'
Holy Ghoft, will not the- Excife pay
< the foldiers ?'
Corbet very ignorantly read, ' will not
e
the Eclipfe pay foldiers V at which the
Committee fell heartily to laugh at him,
and fo he became filent.
There was a great many Parliament
men there ; the chamber was full. * Have
* you any more againft Mr. Lilly ?' cried
the chairman.
' Yes/ faith the Sollicitor for the Ex-
cife, ' fince his Starry Meffenger came
' forth we had our houfe burnt, and the
1
Commiffioners pulled by their cloaks in
« the Exchange.' ' Pray, Sir, when was
6
this/ alked old Sir Robert Pye, f that
' the houfe was burnt, and the Aldermen
' abufed ?' 'It was in fuch a week/ faith
he. * Mr. Lilly, when came the book
* forth V ' The very day of Nafeby fight/
anfwered Mr. Reynolds, * nor needs he
' be afhamed of writing it : I had it
* daily as it came forth of the prefs : It
* was then found the houfe to be burnt,
6
and the Aldermen abufed, twelve days
'
before the Starry Meffenger came forth/
* What a lying fellow art thou, ' faith
Sir Robert Pye, ' to abufe us fo P This
he fpoke to the Sollicitor. Then flood
up one Baflell, a merchant : he inveighed
bitterly againfl me, being a. Prefbyterian,
and would have had my books burnt.
J
You
of his Life and Times. 71
c
You fmell more of a citizen than a
* fcholar, ' replied Mr. Francis Drake.
I was ordered to withdraw, and by and
by was called in, and acquainted the
Committee did difcharge me. But I cried
with a loud voice, < I was under a mef-
* fenger whereupon the Committee or-
dered him or the Serjeant at Arms not
to take any fees y
Mr. Reynolds faying,
* Literate men never pay any fees/
But within one week after, I was likely
to have had worfe fuccefs, but that the
before-named gentlemen ftoutly befriend-
ed me. In my Epiftle of the Starry Mef-
fenger, I had been a little too plain with
the Committee of Leicefterfhire ; who
thereof made complaint unto Sir Arthur
Hazelrigg, Knight for that county ; he
was a furious perfon, and made a motion
in the Houfe of Commons againft me,
and the bulinefs was committed to that
Committee, whereof Baron Rigby was
Chairman. A day was affigned to hear
the matter ; in the morning whereof, as
I paffed by Mr. Pullen's fhop in St. Paul's
Church-yard, Pullen bad God be with
you, and named me by name. Mr. Sei-
dell being there, and hearing my name,
gave direction to call me unto him,
where he acquaints me with Hazelrigg's
humour and malice towards me, called
for the Starry Meflenger, and having
F 4 read
72 Mr. Lilly's History
read over the words mentioning that
Committee, he afked me how I would
anfwer them ? I related what I would
have faid, but he contradifted me, and
acquainted me what to fay, and how
to anfwer. In the afternoon I went to
appear, but there was no Committee
fet, or would fit ; for both Mr. Rey-
nolds and Sir Philip Stapleton, and my
other friends, had fully acquainted Baron
Rigby with the bufinefs, and defired not
to call upon me until they appeared
;
for the matter and charge intended againft
me was very frivolous, and only prefented
by a cholerick perfon to pleafe a com-
pany of clowns, meaning the Committee
of Leicefter. Baron Rigby faid, if it
were fo he would not meddle with the
matter, but exceedingly defired to fee me.
Not long after he met Sir Arthur, and
acquainting him what friends appeared
for me, faid, ' I will then profecute him
' no further/
All the ancient aftrologers of Eng-
land were much ftartled and confounded
at my manner of writing, efpecially old
Mr. William Hodges, who lived near
Wolverhampton in Staffordfhire, and
many others who underftood aftrology
competently well, as they thought. Hodges
fwore I did more by aftrology than he
could by the cryftal, and ufe thereof,
which
of his Life and Times. 73
which indeed he underftood as perfedlly
as any one in England. He was a great
royalift, but could never hit any thing
right for that party, though he much
defired it : He refolved queftions aftro-
logically ; nativities he meddled not with
;
in things of other nature, which required
more curiofity, he repaired to the cryf-
tal: His angels were Raphael, Gabriel,
and Uriel : his life anfwered not in ho-
linefs and fan&ity to what it ftiould,
having to deal with thofe holy angels*.
Being contemporary with me, I fhail re-
late what my partner John Scott, the
fame Scott as is before-mentioned, af-
firmed of him. John Scott was a little
fldlful in furgery and phyfick, fo was
Will Hocjges, and had formerly been a
fchool-mafter. Scott having fome occa-
fions into SUfFordfhire, addrefled himfelf
for a month or fix weeks to Hodges,
affifted him to drefs his patients, let
blood, &c. Being to return to London,
he defired Hodges to fhew him the per-
fon and feature of the woman he fhould
marry. Hodges carries him into a field
not far from his houfe, pulls out his
cryftal, bids Scott fet his foot to his,
and, after a while, wifhes him to infpett
the cryftal, and obferve what he faw
there. 1
I fee/ faith Scott, * a ruddy com-
< pjexioned wench in a red waiftcoat,
' drawing
74 Mr. Lilly's History
4
drawing a can of beer/ * She muft be
* your wife, ' faid Hodges. * You are
c
miftaken, Sir, '
faid Scott. 4
I am, fo
' foon as I come to London, to marry a
* tall gentlewoman in the Old-Bailey/
' You muft marry the red waiftcoat,' faid
Hodges. Scott leaves the country, comes
np to London, finds his gentlewoman
married : Two years after going into
Dover, in his return, he refrefhed him-
felf at an inn in Canterbury, and as he
came into the hall, or firft room thereof,
he miftook the room, and went into the
buttery, where he efpied a maid, defcribed
by Hodges, as before faid, drawing a
can of beer, &c. He then more nar-
rowly viewing her perfon and habit, found
her, in all parts, to be the fame Hodges
had defcribed ; after which he became a
fuitor unto her, and was married unto
her; which woman I have often feen.
This Scott related unto me feveral times,
being a very honeft perfon, and made
great confeience of what he fpoke. Ano-
ther ftory of him is as foiloweth, which
I had related from a perfon which well
knew the truth of it.
A neighbour gentleman of Hodges loft
his horfe; who having Hodges's advice
for recovery of him, did again obtain
him. Some years after, in a frolick, he
thought to abufe him, acquainting a
neighbour
of his Life and Times. 75
neighbour therewith, viz. That he had
formerly loft a horfe, went to Hodges,
recovered him again, but faith it was
by chance ; I might have had him with-
out going unto him :
c
Come, let's go, I
* will now put a trick upon him ; I will
* leave fome boy or other at the town's-
€
end with my horfe, and then go to Hodges
<
and enquire for him/ He did fo, gave
his horfe to a youth, with orders to
walk him till he returned. Away he
goes with his friend, falutes Mr. Hodges,
thanks him for his former courtefy, and
now defires the like, having loft a horfe
very lately. Hodges, after fome time of
paufing, faid; * Sir, your horfe is loft,
* and never to be recovered/ * I thought
' what fkill you had/ replies the gallant,
* my horfe is walking in a lane at the
' town's-end/ With that Hodges fwore
(as he was too much given unto that
vice) « your horfe is gone, and you will
f never have him again/ The gentleman
departed in great derifion of Hodges,
and went where he left his horfe 5 when
he came there, he found the boy faft
afleep upon the ground, the horfe gone,
the boy's arm in the bridle.
He returns again to Hodges, defiring
his aid, being forry for his former abufe.
Old Will fwore like a devil, * Be gone, be
t.
g°ne '> go look your horfe/ Tl^is bufmefs
ended
76 Mr. Lilly's History
ended not fo ; for the malicious man
brought Hodges into the ftar- chamber,
bound him over to the affizes, put Hodges
to great expences : but, by means of the
Lord Dudley, if I remember aright, or
fome other peffon thereabouts, he over-
came the gentleman, and was acquitted.
Befides this, a gentlewoman of my
acquaintance, and of credit, in Leicefter-
fhire, having loft a pillion-cloth, a very
new one, went to defire his judgment.
He ordered her fuch a day to attend at
Mountforrel in Leicefterfhire, and about
twelve o'clock fhe fhould fee her pillion-
cloth upon a horfe, and a woman upon
it. My friend attended the hour and
place ; it being told, fhe muft needs
warm herfelf well, and then enquired if
any paffengers had lately gone by the inn ?
Unto whom anfwer was made, there
pafTed by whilft fhe was at the fire, about
naif an hour before, a man, and a wo-
man behind him, on horfe- back. Inquir-
ing of what colour the pillion-cloth was
of , it was anfwered, direfrly of the colour
my friend's was : They purfued, but too
late.
In thofe times, there lived one William
Marfh in Dunftable, a man of godly life
and upright converfation, a Recufant. By
aftrology he refolved thievifh queftions
with great fuccefs ; that was his utmoft
fole
of his Life and Times. 77
fole practice. He was many times in
trouble ; but by Dr. Napper's intereft with
the Earl of Bolingbroke, LordWentworth,
after Earl of Cleveland, he ftill conti-
nued his praftice, the faid Earl not per-
mitting any Juftice of Peace to vex him.
This man had only two books, Guido
and Haly bound together : He had fo
mumbled and tumbled the leaves of both,
that half one fide of every leaf was torn
even to the middle, I was familiar with
him for many years : He died about
1647.
A word or two of Dr. Napper, who
lived at Great Lindford in Buckingham-
fliire, was parfon, and had the advowfon
thereof. He defcended of worfhipful pa-
rents, and this you muft believe ; for when
Dr. Napper's brother, Sir Robert Nap-
per, a Turkey merchant, was to be made
a Baronet in King James's reign, there
was fome difpute whether he could prove
himfelf a gentleman far three or more
defcents. * By my faul/ faith King James,
* I will certify for Napper, that he is of
* above three hundred years {landing in
* his family, all of them, by my faul,
* gentlemen,' &c. However, their family
came into England in King Henry the
Eighth's time. The parfon was Mafter of
Arts ; but whether doftorated by degree
or courtefy, becaufe of his profeffion, I
know
yS Mr. Lilly's History
know not. Mifcarrying one day in the
pulpit, he never after ufed it, but all
his life-time kept in his houfe fome ex-
cellent fcholar or other to officiate for
him, with allowance of a good falary
:
He out-went Forman in phyfick and
holinefs of life ; cured the falling-fick-
nefs perfeftly by conftellated rings, fome
difeafes by amulets, &c.
A maid was much afflifted with the
falling-ficknefs, whofe parents applied
themfelves unto him for cure : he framed
her a conftellated ring, upon wearing
whereof, fhe recovered perfeftly. Her
parents acquainted fome fcrupulous divines
with the cure of their daughter :
* The
* cure is done by inchantment,' fay they.
* Caft away the ring, it's diabolical ; God
* cannot blefs you, if you do not caft the
* ring away.' The ring was caft into the
well, whereupon the maid became epi-
leptical as formerly, and endured much
mifery for a long time. At laft her
parents cleanfed the well, and recovered
the ring again ; the maid wore it, and
her fits took her no more. In this con-
dition fhe was one year or two ; which
the Puritan minifters there adjoining hear-
ing, never left off, till they procured her
parents to caft the ring quite away
;
which done, the fits returned in fuch
violence, that they were enforced to ap-
ply
of his Life and Times. 79
ply to the Doftor again, relating at
large the whole ftory, humbly imploring
his once more affiftance ; but he could
not be procured to do any thing, only
faid, thofe who defpifed God's mercies,
were not capable or worthy of enjoying
them.
I was with him in 1632, or 1633, upon
occafion. He had me up into his library,
being excellently furnifhed with very
choice books : there he prayed almoft
one hour he invocated feveral angels in
his prayer, viz. {a) Michael, Gabriel,
Raphael, Uriel, &c. We parted.
He inftrufted many minifters in aftro-
logy, would lend them whole cloak-bags
of books; prote&ed them from harm
and violence, by means of his power with
the Earl of (b) Bolingbroke. He would
confefs my mafter Evans knew more than
himfelf in fome things : and fome time
before he died, he got his coufin Sir
Richard to fet a figure to fee when he
fhould die. Being brought him ;
* Well/
he faid, * the old man will live this win-
* ter, but in the fpring he will die ; wel-
* come Lord Jefus, thy will be done/
(a) The collect read on Michaelmas day, feems to
allow of praying to angeis. At fome times, upon great
occafions, he had conference witli Michael, but very
rarely.
(b) Lord Wentworth, after Earl of Cleveland.
He
8o Mr. Lilly's History
He had many enemies : Cotta, Doftor
of phyfick in Northampton, wrote a
fliarp book of witchcraft, wherein, ob-
liquely, he bitterly inveighed againft the
Doctor.
In 1646, I printed a colleftionof Pro-
phecies, with the explanation and verifi-
cation of Aquila, or the White King's
Prophecy ; as alfo the nativities of Bifhop
Laud and Thomas Earl of Strafford, and
a moft learned fpeech by him intended
to have been fpoke upon the fcaffold.
In this year 1646, after a great confi-
deration, and many importunities, I be-
gan to fix upon thoughts of an Intro-
duction unto Aftrology, which was very
much wanting, and as earneftly longed for
by many perfons of quality, fomething
alfo much occafioned and haftened the
impreffion, viz. the malevolent barking
of Prefbyterian minifters in their weekly
fermons, reviling the profeflbrs thereof,
and myfelf particularly by name.
Secondly, I thought it a duty incum-
bent upon me, to fatisfy the whole king-
dom of the lawfulnefs thereof, by fram-
ing a plain and eafy method for any
perfon but of indifferent capacity to learn
the art, and inftruft himfelf therein,
without any other matter than my In-
trodudlion ; by which means, when many
underftood it, I fhould have more partners
of his Life and Times. 8i
and afliftants to contradict all and every
antagonift.
Thirdly, I found it beft as unto point
of time, becaufe many of the foldiers
were wholly for it, and many of the In-
dependant party ; and I had abundance
of worthy men in the Houfe of Com-
mons, my affured friends, no lovers of
Prefbytery, which then were in great
efteem, and able to proteft the art ; for
fhould the Prefbyterian party have pre-
vailed, as they thought of nothing lefs
than to be Lords of all, I knew well they
would have filenced my pen annually,
and committed the Introduftion unto
everlafting filence.
Fourthly, I had fomething of con-
fcience touched my fpirit, and much ele-
vated my conceptions, believing God had
not beftowed thofe abilities upon me, to
bury them under a bufhel; for though
my education was very mean, yet, by
my continual induftry, and God s great
mercy, I found myfelf capable to go for-
ward with the work, and to commit the
iffue thereof unto divine providence*
I had a hard tafk in hand to begin the
firft part hereof, and much labour I un-
derwent to methodize it as it is.
I ingenuoully confefs unto you (Arts'
great Meoenas, noble Efquire Afhmole,)
no mortal man had any fhare in th$
G cpijipo-
, 82 Mr. Lilly's History
compofition or ordering of the firft part
thereof, but my one only felf. You are
a perfon of great reading, yet I well
know you never found the leaft trace
thereof in any author yet extant.
In compofing, contriving, ordering,
and framing thereof (viz. the firft part)
a great part of that year was fpent. I
again perufed all, or moft, authors I
had, fometimes adding, at other times
diminifhing, until at laft I thought it
worthy of the prefs. When I came to
frame the fecond part thereof, having for-
merly collected out of many manufcripts,
and exchanged rules with the moft able
profeflbrs I had acquaintance with, in
tranferibing thofe papers for impreflion,
I found, upon a ftrift inquifition, thofe
rules were, for the moft part, defective
;
fo that once more I had now a difficult
labour to correft their deficiencv, to new
reftify them according to art ; and laftly,
confidering the multiplicity of daily ques-
tions propounded unto me, it was as hard
a labour as might be to tranferibe the
papers themfelves with my own hand.
The defire I had to benefit pofterity and
my country, at laft overcame all difficul -
ties ; fo that what I could not do in one
year, I perfected early the next year,
16475 and then in that year, viz. 1647,
I finiftied
of his Life and Times. 83
I finifhed the third book of {a) nativities,
(6) during the compofing whereof, for
(even whole weeks, I was fliut up of the
plague, burying in that time two maid-
servants thereof; yet towards November
that year, the Introduction, called by the
name of Chriftian Aftrology was made
publick. There being, in thofe times,
fome fmart difference between the army
and the Parliament, the head -quarters
of the army were at Windfor, whither I
was carried with a coach and four horfes,
and John Booker with me. We were
welcome thither, and feafted in a gar-
den where General Fairfax lodged. We
were brought to the General, who bid
us kindly welcome to Windfor ; and, in
effeft, faid thus much :
' That God had bleffed the army with
' many fignal viftories, and yet their work
* was not finifhed. He hoped God would
* go along with them until his work was
' done. They fought not themfelves, but
* the welfare and tranquillity of the good
' people, and whole nation ; and, for
< that end, were refolved to facrifice both
' their lives and their own fortunes. As
(a) The name of the perlon whofe nativity is directed
and judged, is Mr. Thompfon, whofe father had been
fome time an inn-keeper at the White-hart in Newark.
(b) L devifed the forms and fafnions of the feveral
fchemes. E. A.
G z ' for
$4 Mr. Lilly's History
* for the art we ftudied, he hoped it was
* lawful and agreeable to God's word
:
'
He underftood it not but doubted not
4
but we both feared God ; and therefore
* had a good opinion of us both.' Unto
his fpeech I prefently made this reply
:
* My Lord, I am glad to fee you here
4
at this time.
4
Certainly, both the people of God,
4
and all others of this nation, are very
* fenfible of God's mercy, love, and fa-
* vour unto them, in directing the par-
* liament to nominate and eleft you Ge-
* neral of their armies, a perfon fo religi-
* ous, fo valiant.
* The feveral unexpected victories ob-
' tained under your Excellency's conduct,
4
will eternize the fame unto all pofte-
< rity.
4
We are confident of God's going
4
along with you and your army, until
4
the great work for which he ordained
4
you both, is fully perfected ; which we
* hope will be the conquering and fub-
* verfion of your's and the Parliament's
* enemies, and then a quiet lettlement
* and firm peace over all the nation, unto
4
God's glory, and full fatisfacftion of ten-
* der confciences.
c
Sir, as for ourfelves, we truft in God
;
' and, as chriftians, believe in him. We
4
do not ftudy any art but what is lawful,
4
and
of his Life and Times. 85
* and confonant to the fcriptures, fathers,
* and antiquity ; which we humbly defire
* you to believe/ &c.
This ended, we departed, and went to
vifit Mr. Peters the minifter, who lodged
in the caftle, whom we found reading an
idle pamphlet come from London that
morning. * Lilly, thou art herein,' fays
he. * Are not you there alfo ?' I replied.
' Yes, that I am,' quoth he. -The
words concerning me, were thefe
:
From th' oracles of the Sibyls fo filly,
The curfi: predictions of William Lilly,
And Dr. Sybbald's Shoe-lane Philly,
Good Lord, deliver me.
After much conference with Hugh
Peters, and fome private difcourfe betwixt
us two, not to be divulged, we parted,
and fo came back to London.
King Charles the Firft, in the year
1646, April 27, went unto the Scots,
then in this nation. Many defired my
judgment, in time of his abfence, to
difcover the way he might be taken : which
I would never be drawn unto, or give any
direction concerning his perfon.
There were many lewd Mercuries printed
both in London and Oxford, wherein I
was fufficiently abufed, in this year 1646.
I had then my afcendant ad <s , and C
ad praprium. The Prefbyterians were, in
G 7 their
86 Mr. Lilly's History
their pulpits, as mercilefs as the Cavaliers
in their pamphlets.
About this time, the moft famous
mathematician of all Europe, (a) Mr.
William Oughtred, parfon of Aldbury in
Surrey, was in danger of fequeftration
by the Committee of or for plundered
minifters; (Ambo-dexters they were;)
feveral inconfiderable articles were depofed
and fworn againft him, material enough
to have fequeftered him, but that, upon
his day of hearing, I applied myfelf to
Sir Bolftrode Whitlock, and all my own
old friends, who in fuch numbers ap-
peared in his behalf, that though the
chairman and many other Prefbyterian
members were ftiff againft him, yet he
was cleared by the major number. The
truth is, he had a considerable parfonage,
and that only was enough to fequefter any
moderate judgment: He was alfQ well
known to afFeft his Majefty. In thefe
times many worthy minifters loft their
livings or benefices, for not complying
with the Three-penny Directory. Had
you feen (O noble Efquire) what pitiful
ideots were preferred into fequeftrated
church-benefices, you would have been
grieved in your foul ; but when they
came before the claffis of divines, could
(a) This gentleman I was very well acquainted with,
having lived at the houfe over-againft his, at Aldbury
in Suirey, three or four years. E. A.
thofe
of his Life and Times. 87
thofe fimpletons but only fay, they were
converted by hearing fuch a fermon, fuch
a lecture, of that godly man Htigh Peters,
Stephen Marfhall, or any of that gang,
he was prefently admitted.
In 1647, I publifhed the World's Ca-
taftrophe, the Prophecies of Ambrofe
Merlin, with the Key wherewith to un-
lock thofe obftrufe Prophecies alfo Tri-
themius of the Government of the World
by the prefiding Angels ; thefe came forth
all in one book.
The two firft were exquifitely tranflated
by yourfelf, (moft learned Sir) as I do in-
genuoufly acknowledge in my Epiftle unto
the Reader, with a true character of the
worth and admirable parts, unto which
I refer any that do defire to read you
perfectly delineated. I was once refolved
to have continued Trithemius for fome
fucceeding years, but multiplicity of em-
ployment impeded me. The ftudy required,
in that kind of learning, muft be feden-
tary, of great reading, found judgment,
which no man can accomplifh except
he wholly retire, ufe prayer, and accom-
pany himfelf with angelical conforts.
His Majefty Charles the Firft, having
entrufted the Scots with his perfon, was,
for money, delivered into the hands of
the Englifh Parliament, and, by feveral
removals, was had to Hampton-Court
about July or Auguft 1647; for he was
G 4 there,
88 Mr. Lilly's History
there, and at that time when my houfe
was vifited with the plague. He was
defirous to efcape from the foldiery, and
to obfcure himfelf for fome time near
London, the citizens whereof began now
to be unruly, and alienated in affeftion
from the Parliament, inclining wholly
to his Majefty, and very averfe to the
army. His Majefty was well informed
of all this, and thought to make good
ufe hereof -
y befides, the army and Parlia-
ment were at fome odds, who fhould
be matters. Upon the King's intention
to efcape, and with his confent, Madam
Whorewood (whom you knew very well,
worthy Efquire) came to receive my judg-
ment, im. In what quarter of this na-
tion he might be moft fafe, and not to
be difcovered until himfelf pleafed.
When fhe came to my door, I told
her I would not let her come into my
houfe, for I buried a maid-lervant of the
plague very lately, f I fear not the plague,
* but the pox,' quoth fhe; fo up we
went. After ereftion of my figure, I
told her about twenty miles (or there-
abouts) from London, and in EfTex, I
was certain he might continue undif-
covered. She liked my judgment very
well ; and, being herfelf of a iharp judg-
ment, remembered a place in Efiex about
that diftance, where was an excellent
houfe, and all conveniences for his re-
ception.
of his Life and Times, 89
ception. Away fhe went, early next
morning, unto Hampton-Court, to ac-
quaint his Majefty; but fee the misfor-
tune : He, either guided by his own ap-
proaching hard fate, or mifguided by (a)
Afhburnham, went away in the night-
time weftward, and furrendered himfelf
to Hammond, in the Ifle of Wight.
Whilft his Majefty was at Hampton-
Court, Alderman Adams fent his Majefty
one thoufand pounds in gold, five hun-
dred whereof he gave to Madam Whore-
wood. I believe I had twenty pieces of
that very gold for my fhare.
I have fomething more to write of
Charles the Firft's misfortunes, wherein
I was concerned ; the matter happened in
1648, but I thought good to infert it
here, having after this no more occafion
to mention him.
His Majefty being in Carifbrook-Caftle
in the Ifle of Wight, the Kentifh men,
in great numbers, rofe in arms, and joined
with the Lord Goring ; a confiderable
number of the beft fhips revolted from
the Parliament ; the citizens of London
were forward to rife againft the Parlia-
ment j his Majefty laid his defign to efcape
(a) This Afhburnham was turned out of the Houfe
of Commons the 3d of November, 1667, for taking a
bribe of five hundred pounds of the merchants. I was
informed heieof 26 November, 1667.
out
90 Mr. Lilly's History
out of prifon, by fawing the iron bars of
his chamber window ; a fmall fhip was
provided, and anchored not far from the
caftle to bring him into Suffex; horfes
were provided ready to carry him through
Suflex into Kent, that fo he might be
at the head of the army in Kent, and
from thence to march immediately to
London, where thoufands then would
have armed for him. The Lady Whore-
wood came to me, acquaints me herewith.
I got G. Farmer (who was a raoft inge-
nious lock-fmith, and dwelt in Bow-lane)
to make a faw to cut the iron bars iu
funder, I mean to faw them, and aqua
fortis befides. His Majefty in a fmall
time did his work ; the bars gave liberty
for him to go out ; he was out with his
body till he came to his breaft ; but then
his heart failing, he proceeded no farther :
when this was difcovered, as foon after
it was, he was narrowly looked after, and
no opportunity after that could be devifed
to enlarge him. About September the
Parliament fent their CommiHioners with
propofitions unto him into the Ifle of
Wight, the Lord William Sea being one
;
the Lady Whorewood comes again unto
me from him or by his confent, to be
directed : After perufal of my figure, I
told her the Commiifioners would be there
fuch a day; I ele&ed a day and hour
when
of his Life and Times. 91
when to receive the Commiffioners and
propofitions -
y and as foon as the propo-
fitions were read, to fign them, and
make hafte with all fpeed to come up with
the Commiffioners to London. The army
being then far diftant from London, and
the city enraged ftoutly againft them, he
promifed he would do fo. That night
the Commiffioners came, and old Sea and
his Majefty had private conference till one
in the morning : the King acquaints Sea
with his intention, who clearly diflwaded
him from figning the propofitions, telling
him they were not fit for him to fign
;
that he had many friends in the Houfe of
Lords, and fome in the Houfe of Com-
mons ; that he would procure more, and
then they would frame more eafy pro-
pofitions. This flattery of this unfortu-
nate Lord, occafioned his Majefty to wave
the advice I and fome others that wifhed
his profperity had given, in expectation
of that which afterwards could never be
gained. The army having fome notice
hereof from one of the Commiffioners,
who had an eye upon old Sea, hafted
unto London, and made the citizens very
quiet; and befides, the Parliament and
army kept a better correfpondency after-
wards with each other.
Whilft the King was at Windfor-Caftle,
one walking upon the leads there, he
looked
92 Mr. Lilly's History
looked upon Captain Wharton's Alma-
nack ;
* My book,' faith he, ' fpeaks well
' as to the weather:' One William Allen
{landing by ;
< what,' faith he, < faith his
antagonift, Mr. Lilly ?' * I do not care
< for Lilly,' faid his Majefty, he hath
* been always againft me, and became a
c
little bitter in his expreffions.' (
Sir/
faid Allen, ' the man is an honeft man,
f
and writes but what his art informs
' him.' *
I believe it/ faid his Majefty,
' and that Lilly underftands aftrology as
' well as any man in Europe.' Exit Rex
Carolus.
In 1648 I publifhed a Treatife of the
three Suns, feen the winter preceding
;
as alfo an Aftrological Judgment upon a
Conjun&ion of Saturn and Mars 28 June,
in 1 1 degrees 8 minutes of Gemini.
I commend unto your perufal that book
and the Prophetical Merlin, which feri-
oufly confidered, (Oh worthy Efquire)
will more inftruft your judgment \De
generalibiis contingentibas Mundi) than all
the authors you yet ever met with.
In this year, for very great confidera-
tions, the Counfel of State gave me in
money fifty pounds, and a penfion of
one hundred pounds per Annum, which
for two years I received, but no more :
upon fome difcontents I after would not
or did require it. The caufe moving them
was
of his Life and Times. 93
was this ; they could get no intelligence
out of France, although they had feve-
ral agents there for that purpofe. I had
formerly acquaintance with a fecular prieft,
at this time confefibr to one of the Secre-
taries ; unto him I wrote, and by that
means had perfeft knowledge of the
chiefeft concernments of France, at which
they admired ; but I never yet, until this
day, revealed the name of the perfon.
One occafion why I deferted that em-
ployment was, becaufe Scott, who had
eight hundred pounds per A?inum for in-
telligence, would not contribute any oc-
cafion to gratify my friend : And another
thing was, I received fome affront from
Gualter Front their Secretary, one that
was a principal minifter belonging to the
Council of State. Scott was ever my
enemy, the other knave died of a gan-
grene in his arm fuddenly after.
In 1648 and 1649, that I might en-
courage young ftudents in aftrology, I
pubfickly read over the firft part of my
Introduction, wherein there are many
things contained, not eafily to be under-
ftood.
And now we are entered into the year
1649: his Majefty being at St. James's
Houfe, in January of that year, I begun
its obfervations thus
:
" I am
94 Mr; Lilly's History
" I am ferious, I beg and expect juf-
" tice ; either fear or fhame begins to
" queftion offenders.
" The lofty cedars begin to divine a
" thundering hurricane is at hand ; God
" elevates men contemptible.
" Our demigods are fenfible we begin
to diflike their aftions very much in
" London, more in the country.
" Bleffed be God, who encourages his
" fervants, makes them valiant, and of
" undaunted fpirits, to go on with his
" decrees : upon a fudden, great expec-
** tations arife, and men generally believe
u a quiet and calm time draws nigh.
,>
In Chriftmas holidays, the Lord Gray
of Grooby and Hugh Peters, fent for me
to Somerfet-Houfe, with directions to
bring them two of my Almanacks.—
I
did fo ; Peters and he read January's Ob-
fervations.
* If we are not fools and knaves/ faith
he, ' we fhall do juftice :' then they whif-
pered. I underftood not their meaning
till his Majefty was beheaded. They ap-
plied what I wrote of juftice, to be un-
derftood of his Majefty, which was con-
trary to my intention ; for Jupiter, the
firft day of January, became direft ; and
Libra is a fign fignifying Juftice ; I im-
plored for juftice generally upon fuch as
of mis Life and Times. 95
had cheated in their places, being trea-
furers, and fuch like officers. I had not
then heard the leaft intimation of bring-
ing the King unto trial, and yet the firft
day thereof I was cafualiy there, it being
upon a Saturday 5 for going to Weftmin-
fter every Saturday in the afternoon, in
thefe times, at Wjiite-hall I cafualiy met
Peters ; ' Come, Lilly, wilt thou go hear
« the King tried ?' < When?' faid I. < Now,
' juft now ; go with me/ I did fo, and
was permitted by the guard of foldiers to
pafs up to the King's-Bench. Within one
quarter of an hour came the Judges,
prefently his Majefty, who fpoke excel-
lently well, and majeftically, without im-
pediment in the leaft when he fpoke. I
faw the filver top of his ftaff unexpectedly
fall to the ground, which was took up by
Mr. Rufhworth : but when I heard Brad-
fhaw the Judge fay to his Majefty,
* Sir, inftead of anfwering the court,
* you interrogate their power, which be-
* comes not one in your condition/
Thefe words pierced my heart and foul,
to hear a fubjeft thus audacioufly to re-
prehend his Sovereign, who ever and
anon replied with great magnanimity and
prudence.
After that his Majefty was beheaded,
the Parliament for fome ye^rs afFetted
nothing either for the publick peace or
tran-
96 Mr. Lilly's History
tranquillity of the nation, or fettling re-
ligion as they had formerly promifed.
The interval of time betwixt his Majefty's
death and Oliver Cromwell's difplacing
them, was wholly confumed in voting for
themfelves, and bringing their own re-
lations to be members of Parliament,
thinking to make a trade thereof.
The week, or three or four days before
his Majefty's beheading, one Major Syden-
ham, who had commands in Scotland,
came to take his leave of me, and told
me the King was to be put to death,
which I was not willing to believe, and
faid, ' I could not be perfuaded the Par-
* liament could find any Englifhman fo
* barbarous, that would do that foul
< a&ion/ ' Rather/ faith he, < than they
c
fhould want fuch a man, thefe arms
* of mine fhould do it/ He went pre-
fently after' into Scotland, and upon the
firft engagement againft them, was llain,
and his body miferably cut and mangled.
In 1 65 1 I publilhed Monarchy or no
Monarchy, and in the latter end thereof
fome hieroglyphicks of my own, com-
pofed, at fpare time, by the accult learn-
ing, many of thofe types having repre-
fentations of what fhould from thence
fucceed in England, and have fince had
verification,
I had
of his Life and Times. 97
I had not that learning from books,
or any manufcript I ever yet met withal^
it is reduced from a cabal lodging in aftro-
logy, but fo myfterious and difficult to
be attained, that I hive not yet been ac-
quainted with any who had that know-
ledge. I will fay no more thereof, but
that the afterifms and figns and conftel-
lations give greateft light thereunto.
During Bradfhaw's being Prefident of
the Council of State, it was my happi-
nefs to procure Captain Wharton his
liberty, which when Bradfhaw underftood,
faid, * I will be an enemy to Lilly, if ever
* he come before me.' Sir Bolftrode Whit-J
lock broke the ice firft of all on behalf
of Captain Wharton : after him the Com-
mittee, unto whom his offence had been
committed, fpoke for him, and faid he
might well be bailed or enlarged : I had
fpokeri to the Committee the morning
of his delivery, who thereupon were fo
civil unto him, efpecially Sir William
Ermin of Lincolnfliire. who at firft won-
dered I appeared not againft him * but
upoti my humble requeft; my long con-
tinued antagonift was enlarged and had
his liberty.
In 1 65 1 I purehafed one hundred and
ten pounds per Aiinum in fee-farm rents
for one thoufand and thirty pounds. I
paid all in ready money ; but when hii
98 Mr. Lilly's Histo&V
Majefty King Charles the Second, 1660,-
was reftored, I loft it all again, and it
returned to the right owner ; the lofs
thereof never affli&ed me, for I have
ever reduced niy mind according to my
fortune. I was drawn in by feveral per-
fons to make that fimple purchafe. The
year I bought it, I had my ascendant
directed into a Trine of Jupiter firft, and
in the fame year into the Cauda Draconis
—my fortune into a quadrant of Mer-
cury, When Colchefter was befieged,
John Booker arid myfelf were fent for,
where we encouraged the foldiers, allur-
ing them the town wr
ould very fhortly be
furrendered, as indeed it was : I would
willingly have obtained leave to enter the
town, to have informed Sir Charles Lucas,
whom I well knew, with the condition of
affairs as they then ftood, he being de-
luded by falfe intelligence : at that time
my fcholar Humphreys was therein, who
many times deluded the Governor with
expe&ation of relief; but failing very
many times with his lies, at lafl he had
the baftinado, was put in prifon, and in-
forced to become a foldier; and well it
was he efcaped fo. —During my being
there, the fteeple of St. Mary's Church
was much battered by two cannons pur-
pofely placed : I was there one day about
three of the clock in the afternoon, talk-
ing
of his Life and Times. gg
ing with the cannoneer, when prefently he
defired us to look to ourfelves, for he
perceived by his perfpeftive glafs there was
a piece charged in the caftle againft his
work, and ready to be difcharged. I ran
for hafte under an old afh-tree, and im-
mediately the cannon-bullet came hiffing
quite over us. * No danger now/ faith
the gunner, * but begone, for there are
* five more charging/ which was true
;
for two hours after thofe cannons were
difcharged, and unluckily killed our
cannoneer and matrofs. I came the next
morning and faw the blood of the two
poor men lie upon the planks : we were
well entertained at the head quarters, and
after two whole days abiding there, came
for London.
Bat we profecute our ftory again, and
fay that in the year 1652 I purchafed my
houfe and fome lands in Herfham, in the
parifh of Walton upon Thames, in the
county of Surrey, where I now live; in-
tending by the bleffing of God, when I
found it convenient, to retire into the
country, there to end my days in peace
and tranquillity ; for in London my prac-
tice was fuch, I had none or very little
time afforded me to ferve God, who
had been fo gracious unto me. The
purchafe of the houfe and lands, and
building, flood me in nine hundred and
H 2 fiftj
ioo Mr. Lilly's History
fifty pounds fterling, which I have very
much augmented.
The Parliament now grows odious unto
all good men, the members whereof be-
came infufferable in their pride, covet-
oufnefs, felf-ends, lazinefs, minding no-
thing but how to enrich themfelves. Much
heart-burning now arofe betwixt the Pref-
byterian and Independant, the latter Tid-
ing with the army, betwixt whofe two
judgments there was no medium. Now
came up, or firft appeared, that mon-
itrous people called Ranters : and many
other novel opinions in themfelves here-
tical and fcandalous, were countenanced
by members of Parliament, many where-
of were of the fame judgment. Juftice
was neglected, vice countenanced, and
all care of the common good laid afide.
Every judgment almoft groaned under the
heavy burthen they then fuffered ; the
army negle&ed; the city of London
fcorned -
y the miniftry, efpecially thofe who
were orthodox and ferious, honeft or vir-
tuous, had no countenance ; my foul be-
gan to loath the very name of a Parlia-
ment, or Parliament-men. There yet re-
mained in the Houfe very able, judici-
ous, and worthy patriots ; but they, by
their filence, only ferved themfelves : all
was carried on by a rabble of dunces,
who being the greater number, voted
what
of his Life and Times. iof
what feemed beft to their nonintelligent
fancies.
In this year I publifhed Annus Tene-
brofus, which book I did not fo entitle,
becaufe of the great obfcurity of the folar
eclipfe, by fo many prattled of to no
purpofe, but becaufe of thofe underhand
and clandeftine counfels held in England
by the foldiery, of which I would never,
but in generals, give any knowledge unto
any Parliamant man. I had wrote pub-
lickly in 1650, that the Parliament fhould
not continue, but a new government
ihould arife, &c.
In my next year's Anglicus, upon ra-
tional grounds in aftrology, I was fo
bold as to aver therein, that the Parlia-
ment flood upon a tottering foundation,
and that the commonalty and foldiery
would join together againft them.
My Anglicus was for a whole week
every day in the Parliament Houfe, peep-
ed into by the PrenSyterians, one difliking
this fentence, another finds another fault,
others mifliked the whole ; fo in the end
a motion was made, that Anglicus fhould
be infpefted by the Committee for plun-
dered minifters ; which being done, they
were to return them to the Houfe, viz.
report its errors.
A meffenger attached me by A warrant
from that Committee; I had private
H 3 notice
102 Mr. Lilly's History
notice ere the meflenger came, and hafted
unto Mr. Speaker Lenthall, ever my
friend. He was exceeding glad to fee me,
told me what was done ; called for Angli-
cus, marked the paffages which tormented
the Prefbyterians fo highly. I prefently
fent for Mr. Warren the printer, an af-
fured Cavalier, obliterated what was moft
offenfive, put in other more fignificant
words, and (Jefired only to have fix a-
mended againft next morning, which very
honeftly he brought me. I told him my
defign was to deny the book found fault
with, to own only the fix books. I tojd
him, I doubted he would be examined.
€
Hang them/ faid he, * they are all
9
rogues. I'll fwear myfelf to the devil
c
ere they fhall have an advantage againft
* you by my oath/
The day after, I appeared before the
Committee, being thirty fix in number
that day ; whereas it was obferved, at o-
ther times, it was very difficult to get
five of them together, At firft they
fhewed me the true Anglicus, and alked
if I wrote and printed it. I took the
book and infpe&ed it very heedfully;
and, when I had done fo, faid thus :
' This is none of rny book, fome ma-
<
Hcious Prefbyterian hath wrote it, whQ
* are my mortal enemies ; I difown it/
The Committee looked upon one ano-
ther
of his Life and Times, 103
ther like diftracted men, not imagining
what I prefently did ; for I prefently
pulled out of my pocket fix books, and
(aid, ' Thefe I own, the others are coun-
* terfeits, publifhed purpofely to ruin me/
The Committee were now more vexed
than before : Not one word was fpoke a
good while; at laft, many of them, or
the greateft number of them, were of
opinion to imprifon me. Some were for
Newgate, others for the Gate-Houfe;
but then one Bro\yn of Suflex, called
the Prefbyterian beadje, vwhom the com-
pany of Stationers had bribed to be my
friend, by giving him a new book of
Martyrs ; he, I fay, preached unto the
Committee this doctrine, that neither
Newgate or the Gate-Houfe were prifons
unto which at any time the Parliament
fent prifoners : it was moft convenient
for the Serjeant at Arms to take me in
cuftody.
Mr. Strickland, who had for many
years been the Parliament's Amballador
or Agent in Holland, when he law how
they inclined, fpoke thus :
(
I came purpofely into the Committee
* this day to fee the man who is fo fa-
' mous in thofe parts where I have fo
f long continued : I allure you his name
* is famous all over Europe : I come to
* do him juftice. A book is produced by
ff 4 us.
ie>4 Mr. Lilly's History
t us, and faid to be his he denies it ;
* we have not proved it, yet will commit
' him. Truly this is great injuftice. It
f is likely he will write next year, and
' acquaint the whole world with our in-
f jufticg ; and fo well he may. It is my
f opinion, firft to prove the book to be
f his, ere he be committed/
Another old friend of mine, Mr. R.
fpoke thus
:
* Yqu do not know the many fervices
f this man hath done for the Parliament
* thefe many years, or how many times,
* in our greateft diftrefles, we applying
* unto him, he hath refrefhed our lan-r
* guiftiing expectations ; he never failed
f us of comfort in our moft unhappy
* diftrefles. J aflure you his writings have
* kept up the fpirits both of the foldiery,
t the honeft people of this nation, and
t many Qf us Parliament men ; and now
* at laft, for a flip of his pen (if it were
4
his) to be thus violent againft him : I
4
muft tell you, I fear the confequence
'
urged out of the book will prove ef-
* fe&ually true. It is my counfel, to
f admonifh him hereafter to be more
* wary, and fqr the prefent to difmifs
! him/
Notwithftanding any thing that was
fpoken on my behalf, I was ordered to
ftand committed to the Serjeant at Arms.
of his Life and Times. 105
The meffenger attached my perfon, faid I
was his prifoner. As he was carrying
me away, he was called to bring me
again. Oliver Cromwell, Lieutenant-
General of the army, having never feen
me, caufed me to be produced again,
where he ftedfaftly beheld me for a good
fpace, and then I went with the meffen-
ger ; but inftantly a young clerk of that
Committee afks the meffenger what he
did with me, where's the warrant ? un-
til that is figned you cannot feize Mr^
Lilly, or fhall. Will you have an aftion
of falfe imprifonment againft you ? So I
efcaped that night, but next day obeyed
the warrant. That night Oliver Crom-
well went to Mr. R. my friend, and faid,
* What never a man to take Lilly's caufe
4
in hand but yourfelf ? None to take his
' part but you ? He fhall not be long there.*
Hugh Peters fpoke much in my behalf
to the Committee ; but they were refolved
to lodge me in the Serjeant's cuftody.
One Millington, a drunken member, was
much my enemy ; and fo was Cawley and
Chichefter, a deformed fellow, \mto whom
I had done feveral courtefie-s.
Firft thirteen days I was a prifoner;
and though every day of the Committee's
fitting I had a petition to deliver, yet
fo many churlifh Prefbyterians ftill ap-
peared/ I could not get it accepted. The
laft
jp6 Mr. Lilly's History
laft day of the thirteen, Mr. Jofeph Afh
was made Chairman, unto whom my
caufe being related, he took my petition,
and faid I fhould be bailed in defpite
of them all, but defired I would procure
as many friends as I could to be there.
Sir Arthur Hazelrigg, and Major Sallo-
way, a perfon of excellent parts, ap-
peared for me, and many now of my old
friends came in. After two whole hours
arguing of my caufe by Sir Arthur and
Major Salloway, and other frienda, the
matter came to this point; I fhould be
bailed, and a Committee nominated to
examine the printer. The order of the
Committee being brought afterwards to
him who fhould be Chairman, he fent
me word, do what I would, he would fee
all the knaves hanged, ere he would ex-
amine the printer. This is the truth of
the flory.
The 1 6th of February myfecon4
wife died ; for whofe death I fhed no
tears. I had five hundred pounds with
her as a portion, but fhe and her poor
relations fpent me one thoufand pounds.
Gloria Patri, & Filio, & Spiritui Sanclo :
jicut erat in principio & nunc & Jemper, &
in facula faculorum : For the 20th of A-
pril 1655, thefe enemies of mine, viz.
Parliament men, were turned out of doors
by Oliver Cromwell. A German doftor
of his Life and Times. 107
of phyfick being then in London, fent
me this paper
:
Strophe Alcaica: Gazerofo Domino Gulielmo
Lillio AjlrologOy de dijjhluto nuper Par*
liamento.
Quod palculafti Sydere prgevio,
Miles peregit numine confcio,
Gentis'videmus nunc Scnatum,
Marte Tog q; gravi levatum.
In the time of my imprifonment, Mr,
Rufhworth came to vifit me, and told
me, the army would do as much as I had
predicted unto the Parliament.
In Oftober 1654, I married the third
wife, who is fignified in my nativity by
Jupiter in Libra ; and fhe is fo totally in
jier conditions, to my great comfort.
In 1655, I was indifted at Hicks's-HalJ
by a half-witted young woman. Three
feveral Seffions fhe was negleCted, and the
Jury caft forth her bill ; but the fourth,
time, they found it againft me : I put
in bail to traverfe the indictment. The
caufe of the indiftment was, for that I
had given judgment upon ftolen goods,
and received two (hillings and fix pence.
1
—And this was faid to be contrary unto
an Aft in King James's time made.
This mad woman was put upon this
aftion againft me by two minifters, who
had
io8 Mr. Lilly's History
had framed for her a very ingenious fpeech,
which fhe could fpeak without book, as
lhe did the day of hearing the traverfe.
She produced one woman, who told the
court, a fon of hers was run from her
;
that being in much affli&ion of mind for
her lofs, fhe repaired unto me to know
what was become of him; that I told
her he was gone for the Barbadoes, and
fhe would hear of him within thirteen
days ; which, fhe faid, fhe did.
A fecond woman made oath, that her
hufband being wanting two years, fhe
repaired to me for advice : That I told
her he was in Ireland, and would be at
home fuch a time ; and, faid fhe, he did
come home accordingly.
I owned the taking of half a crown
for my judgment of the theft ; but faid,
I gave no other judgment, but that the
goods would not be recovered, being that
was all which was required of me : the
party, before that, having been with feve-
ral aftrologers, fome affirming fhe fhould
have her goods again, others gave con-
trary judgment, which made her come
unto me for a final refolution.
At laft my enemy began her before-
made fpeech, and, without the leaft Hum-
bling, pronounced it before the court
;
which ended, fhe had fome queries put
unto her, and then I fpoke for myfelf,
of his Life and Times. 109
and produced my own Introdu&ion into
court, faying, that I had fome years be-
fore emitted that book for the benefit of
this and other nations ; that it was allow-
ed by authority, and had found good ac-
ceptance in both univerfities ; that the
ftudy of aftrology was lawful, and not
contradicted by any fcripture; that I
neither had, or ever did, ufe any charms,
forceries, or inchantments related in the
bill of indictment, &c,
She then related, that fhe had been
feveral times with me, and that afterwards
ftie could not reft a nights, but was trou-
bled with bears, lions, and tygers, &c.
My counfel was the Recorder Green, who
after he had anfwered all objections, con-
cluded, aftrology was a lawful art.
' Miftrefs,' faid he, * what colour was
? thofe beafts that you were lb terrified
< with ?'
* I never faw any/ faid (he.
* How do you then know they were
* lions, tygers, or bears/ replied he.
—
* This is an idle perfon, only fit for Bed-
f
:
lam/ The Jury who went not from
the bar, brought in, No true Bill.
There were many Prefbyterian Juftices
much for her, and efpecially one Roberts,
a bufy fellow for the Parliament, who
after his Majefty came in, had like to
have loft life and fortune.
I had
u6 Mr. Lilly's HistorV
I had procured Juftice Hooker to fee
there, who was the oracle of all the Jus-
tices of Peace in Middlefex.
There was nothing memorable, after
that happened unto me, until 1650, and
the month of Oftober, at what time
Captain Owen Cox brought me over from
his Majefty of Sweden, a gold chain and
medal, worth about fifty pounds- the
caufe whereof was, that in the year 1657,
^nd 1658, I had made honourable men-
tion of him : the Anglicus of 1658 being
tranflated into the language fpoke at
Hamburgh, printed and cried about the
ftreets, as it is in London.
The occafion of my writing fo honour-
ably of his Majefty of Sweden was
this: Sir Bolftrode Whitlock, Krtight,
upon the very time of Oliver's being made
Prote&or, having made very noble articles
betwixt Chriftina then Queen of Sweden*
and the Englifh nation, was in his being
at Stockholm vifited frequently by Charles
Guftavus, unto whom Chriftina refigned
during his abode, and ufed with all man-
ner of civility by him, infomuch as fome
other Ambaftadors took it ill, that they
had not fo much refpeft or equal ; unto
which he would reply, he would be kind
where himfelf did find juft caufe of merit
unto any. He was a great lover of our
nation 3 but there was fome other caufes:
alfo
of his Life and Times. in
alfo moving my pen to be' fo liberal, wsj
The great hopes I had of his prevailing,
and of taking Copenhagen and Elfmore^
which if he had lived, was hoped he
might have accomplifhed ; and had affur-
edly done, if Oliver the Protestor had
not fo untimely died ere our fleet of fhips
returned ; for Oliver fent the fleet on
purpofe to fight the Dutch; but dying,
and the Parliament being reftored, Sir
Henry Vane, who afterwards was be-
headed, had order from the Council of
State to give order to the fleet what to do
now Oliver was dead, and themfelves re-
ftored. Vane, out of ftate-policy, gave
the Earl of Sandwich dire&ion not
to fight the Dutch. Captain Symons,
who carried thofe letters, fwore unto me,
had he known the letters he carried had
contained any fuch prohibition, he would
have funk both fhip and letters. Oliver
faid, when the fleet was to go forth,.
* That if God blefied his Majefty of Swe-
' den with Copenhagen, the Englifh were
* to have Elfinore as their fhare ; which
* if once I have/ faith Oliver, '
the Eng-
* lifh fhall have the whole trade of the
* Baltick Sea : I will make the Dutch find
* another paffage, except they will pay
* fuch cuftoms as I fhall impofe.' Con-
fidering the advantages this would have
been to our Englifh, who can blame my
pen
112 Mr. Lilly's History
pen for being liberal, thereby to have ert-
couraged our famous and noble feamen,
or for writing fo honourably of the Swe-
difh nation, who had moft courteoufly
treated my beft of friends, Sir Bolftrode
Whitlock, and by whofe means, had the
defign taken effeft, the Englifh nation
had been made happy with the moft be-
neficial concern of all Chriftendom* I
fhall conclude about Oliver the then Pro-
testor, with whom obliquely I had tranf-
aftions by his fon-in-law, Mr. Cleypool;
and to fpeak truly of him, he fent one
that waited upon him in his chamber,
once in two or three days, to hear how
it fared with me in my feffions bufinefs
;
but I never had of him, directly or in-
dire&ly, either penfion, or any the leaft
fum of money, or any gratuity during his
whole Proteftorfhip ; this I proteft to be
true, by the name and in the name of the
moft holy God.
In 1653, before the diflblution of the
Parliament, and that ere they had chofen
any for their Ambaffador into Sweden,
Mr. Cleypool came unto me, demanding
of me whom I thought fitteft to fend
upon that ambafly into Sweden : I no-*
minated Sir B. Whitlock, who was chofen,
and two or three days after Mr, Cleypool
came again : 1 I hope Mr. Lilly, my fa-
* ther, hath now pleafed you : Your friend
2 (
Sir
of riis Life and Times, uj
* Sir B. Whitlock is to go for Sweden.'
But fince I have nlentioned Oliver Croirn
well, I will relate fomething of him,
which perhaps no other pen £an, or will
mention. He was born of generous pa-
rents in Huntingdonshire, educated fome
time at the univerfity of Cambridge : in
his youth was wholly given to debauchery,
quarelling, drinking, &c. quid non ; hav-
ing by thofe nieafis wafted his patrimony,
he was enforced to bethink himfelf of
leaving England, and go to New-Eng-
land : he had hired a pafTage in a fhip,
but ere fhe launched out for her voyage,
a kinfman dieth, leaving him a confider-
able fortune; upon which he returns,
pays his debts, became affe&ed to reli-
gion; is elefted in 1640 a member of
Parliament, in 1642 made a Captain of
horfe under Sir Philip Stapleton, fought
at Edge-Hill ; after he was made a Colo-
nel, then Lieutertant-General to the Earl
of Manchefteiy who was one of the three
Generals to fight the Earl of Newcaftle
and Prince Rupert at York : Ferdinando
Lord Fairfax, and Earl Leven the Scot,
were the other two for the Parliament
:
the laft two thinking all had been loft at
Marfton-Moor fight, Fairfax went into
Cawood Caftle, giving all for loft: at
twelve at night there came word of the
Parliament's victory ; Fairfax being then
'I laid
ii4 Lilly's History
laid down upon a bed, there was not a
candle in the caftle, nor any fire : up
rifeth Lord Fairfax, procures after fome
time, paper, ink, and candle, writes to
Hull, and other garrifons of the Par-
liament's, of the fuccefs, and then flept.
Leven the Scot afked the way to Tweed :
the honour of that day's fight was given
to Manchefter, Sir Thomas Fairfax's
brigade of horfe, and Oliver Cromwell's
iron fides ; for Cromwell's horfe, in
thofe times, ufually wore head-pieces,
back and breaft-plates, of iron. After
this viftory Cromwell became gracious
with the Houfe of Commons, efpecially
the Zealots, or Prelbyterians, with whom
at that time he efpecially joined; the
name Independent, at that time, viz.
1644, being not fo much fpoken of.
There was fome animofity at or before
the fight, betwixt the Earl of Newcaftle
and Prince Rupert ; for Newcaftle being
General of his Majefty's forces in the
North, a perfon of valour, and well
efteemed in thofe parts, took it not well
to have a competitor in his concernments
;
for if the victory fhould fall on his Maje-
fty's fide, Prince Rupert's forces would
attribute it unto their own General, viz.
Rupert, and give him the glory thereof
:
but that it happened, Prince Rupert, in
that day's fight, engaged the Parliament's
forces
op his Life and Times. 115
forces too foon, and before the Eari of
Newcaftle could well come out of York
with his army ; by reafon whereof,
though Rupert had abfolutely routed the
Scots and the Lord Fairfax's forces ; yet-
ere timely affiftance could fecond his ar-
my, Sir Thomas Fairfax and Cromwell had
put him to flight, and not long after all
Newcaftle's army. Amongft themoft memo-
rable aftions of that day's this happened,
that one entire regiment of foot belong-
ing to Newcaftle, called the Lambs, be-
caufe they were all new cloathed in white:
woollen cloth, two or three days before
the fight. This fole regiment, after the
day was loft, having got into a fmall par-
cel of ground ditched in, and not of eafy
accefs of horfe, would take no quarter
;
and by mere valour, for one whole hour,
kept the troops of horfe from entering
amongft them at near pufti of pike : when
the horfe did enter, they would have
no quarter, but fought it out till there
was not thirty of them living : thofe
whofe hap it was to be beaten down upon
the ground as the troopers came near
them, though they could not rife for their
wounds, yet were fo defperate as to get
either a pike or fword, or piece of them,
and to gore the troopers horfes as they
came over them, or palTed by them. Cap-
tain Camby, then a trooper under Crom-
1 1 6 Mr. Lilly's History
well, and an actor, who was the third or
fourth man that entered amongft them,
protefted, he never in all the fights he
was in, met with fuch refolute brave
fellows, or whom he pitied fo much, and
faid, ' he faved two or three againft their
* wills.'
After the fight, Manchefter marched
flowly fouthward, &c. but at laft came
with his army to Newbery fight ; which
ended, he came for London, and there
he accufeth Cromwell, being his Lieute-
nant, to the Parliament, of difobedience,
and not obeying his orders.
The Houfe of Commons acquaint
Cromwell herewith, and charge him, as
he would anfwer it before God, that the
day following he fhould give them a full
account of Manchefter's proceedings, and
the caufe and occafion of their difference,
and of the reafons why Manchefter did
not timely move weftward for the relief
of Eflex, then in the weft, who was
abfolutely routed, inforced to fly, all his
foot taken, and all his ordnance and
train of artillery, only the horfe efcaping.
Cromwell the next day gave this ac-
count to Mr. Speaker in the Houfe of
Commons—by way of recrimination.
That after God had given them a fuc-
cefsful victory at Marfton over the King's
forces, and that they had well refrefhed
their
of his Life and Times. 117
their army, Manchefter, by their order,
did move fouthward, but with fuch flow-
nefs, that fometimes he would not march
for three days together; fometimes he
would lie ftill one day, then two days
;
whereupon he faid, confidering the Earl
of ElTex was in the weft, with what
fuccefs he then knew not, he moved
Manchefter feveral times to quicken his
march to the weft, for relief of EfTex, if
he were beaten, or to divert the King's
forces from following of Eflex ; but he
faid Manchefter ftill refufed to make any
hafte ; and that one day he faid, *
If any
' man but yourfelf, Lieutenant, fhould
* fo frequently trouble me, I would call
ft
him before a Council of War. We
* have beaten the King's forces in the
* north ; if we fhould do fo in the weft,
* his Majefty is then undone : He hath
4
many fons living $ if any of them come
* to the Crown, as they well may, they
* will never forget us/ This Major Ham-
mond, a man of honour, will juftify
as well as myfelf. After which he march-
ed not at all, until he had order from
the Committee to haften weftward, by
reafon of Eflex's being loft in Corn-
wall, which then he did; and at New-
bery fight, it is true, I refufed to obey
his directions and order : for this it
was ; his Majefty's horfe being betwixt
t 3 four
n8 Mr. Lilly's History
four and five thoufand in a large com-r
rnon, in good order, he commands me,
Mr. Speaker, to charge them; we hav^
ing no way to come at them but through
a narrow lane, where not above three
horfe could march abreaft ; whereby
had I followed his order, we had been
all cut off ere we could have got into
any order. Mr. Speaker, (and then he
wept; which he could do toties quoties)
I confidering that all the vifible army
you then had, wac by this counfel in
danger to be loft, refufed thus to en-
danger the main ftrength, which now
moft of all confifted of thofe horfe un-
der my command, &c. This his re-
crimination was well accepted by ihe
Houfe of Commons, who thereupon,
and from that time, thought there was
none of the Houfe of Lords, very fit to
fae entrufted with their future armies, but
had then thoughts of making a com-
moner their General; which afterwards
they did, and elefted Sir Thomas Fair-
fax their General, and Cromwell Lieu-
tenant- General ; but it was next fpring
firft. Upon EfTex's being loft in Corn-
wall, I heard Serjeant Maynard fay, ' If
* now the King hafte to London we are
' undone, having no army to refift him.'
His Majefty had many misfortunes
ever attending him, during his abode at
2 Oxford j
of his Life and Times. 119
Oxford; fome by reafon of that great
animofity betwixt Prince Rupert and the
Lord Digby, each endeavouring to crofs
one another -
9 but the worft of all was
by treachery of feveral officers under his
command, and in his fervice ; for the
Parliament had in continual pay one
Colonel of the King's Council of War
;
one Lieutenant-Colonel ; one Captain
;
one Enfign; one or two Serjeants; feve-
ral Corporals, who had conftant pay, and
duly paid them every month, according
to the capacity of their offices and places,
and yet none of thefe knew any thing of
each other's being fo employed. There
were feveral well-wifliers unto the Parlia-
ment in Oxford, where each left his let-
ter, putting it in at the hole of a glafs-
window, as he made water in the ftreet.
What was put in at the window in any
of thofe houfes, was the fame day con-
veyed two miles off by fome in the ha-
bit of town-gardeners, to the fide of a
ditch, where one or more were ever ready
to give the intelligence to the next Par-
liament garrifon : I was then familiar with
all the fpies that conftantly went in and
out to Oxford.
But once more to my own aftions. I
had in 1652 and 1653 and 1654 much
contention with Mr. Gatacre of Rother-
hithe, a man endued with all kind of
I
4 learningf
i2o Mr. Lilly's History
learning, and the ableft man of the whole
fynod of divines in the Oriental tongues.
The fynod had concluded to make an
expcfition upon the bible; fame under-
took one book, fome another. Gatacre
fell upon Jeremy. Uppn making his ex-
pofition on the ^d verfe of the ioth
chapter,
(
Learn not the way of the heathen,
* and be not difmayed at the figns of
* heaven, for the heathen are difmayed at
' them/
In his Annotations thereupon, he makes
a fcandalous expofition; and in exprefs
terms, hints at me, repeating verbatim^
ten or twelve times an Epiftle of mine
in one of my former Anglicus.
The fubftance of my Epiftle was, that
I did conceive the good angels of God,
did firft: reveal aftrology unto mankind,
&c. but he in his Annotations calls me
blind buzzard, &c.
Haying now liberty of the prefs, and
hearing the old man was very cholerick,
I thought fit to raife it iip — and only
wrote —I referred my difcourfe then in
hand to thp difcufTion and judgment of
fober perfons, but not unto Thomas Wife^
acre, for Series bis pueri : Thefe very words
begot the writing of forty-two fheets
againft piyfelf and aftrology. The next
year I quibbled again in three qx four
of his Life and Times. 121
lines againft him, then he printed twenty-
two fheets againft me. I was perfuaded
by Dr. Gauden, late BHhop of Exeter,
to let him alone ; but in my next year's
Anglicus, in Auguft obfervations, I wrote,
Hoc in tumba jacet Presbyter & Nebulo, in
which very month he died.
Several divines applied themfelves unto
me, defiring me to forbear any further
vexing of Mr. Gatacre ; but all of them
did as much condemn him of indifcre-
tion, that in fo fober a piece of work as
that was, in an Annotation upon a
facred text of fcripture to particularize
me and in that dirty language: they
pitied him, th^t he had not better con-
fidered with himfelf ere he publhhed it.
Dean Owen of Chrift's-Church in Ox-
ford, £lfo in his fermons had fharp in-
veftives againft me and aftrology; I
cried quittance with him, by urging Abbot
Panormitari$ judgment of aftrology con-
trary to Owen's, and concluded, *
An
' Abbot was $n ace above a Dean.'
One Mr. Nye of the alterably of di-
vines, a Jufuitical Prefbyterian, bleated
forth his judgment publicldy againft me
and aftrology: to be quit with him, I
urged Caufinus the Jefuit's approba«r
tion of aftrology, and concluded, Sic
canibus catu/os, &c.
In
. 122 Mr. Lilly's History
In fome time after the Dutch Ambaf-
fador was offended with fome things in
Anglicus, prefented a memorial to the
Council of State, that Merlinus Anglicus
might be confidered, and the abufes againft
their nation examined ; but his paper was
not accepted of, or I any way molefted.
In Oliver's ProteCtorfhip, I wrote freely
and fatyrical enough : he was now become
Independant, and all the foldiery my
friends for when he was in Scotland,
the day of one of their fights, a foldier
flood with Anglicus in his hand; and
as the feveral troops paffed by him, ' ho,
' hear what Lilly faith ; you are in this
« month promifed victory, fight it out,
* brave boys, and then read that month's
« prediction.'
I had long before predicted the down-
fall of Prefbytery, as you (moft honoured
Sir) in the figure thereof, in my Intro-
duction, may obferve ; and it was upon
this occafion. Sir Thomas Middleton of
Chark Caftle, enemy to Prefbytery, feeing
they much prevailed, being a member of
the Houfe, ferioufly demanded my judg-
ment, if Prefbytery fhould prevail, or
not, in England? The figure printed in
my Introduction, will beft give you an
account, long before it happened, of the
finking and failing of Prefbytery ; fo will
of his Life and Times. 1
23
the fecond page of my Hieroglyphicks.
Thofe men, to be ferious, would preach
well; but they were more lordly than
Bifhops, and ufually, in their parifhes,
more tyrannical than the Great Turk.
Of the Year 1660; the A&ions
whereof, as they were remark-
able in England, fo were they
no lefs memorable as to my par-
ticular Fortune and Perfon.
Upon the Lord General Monk's return-
ing from Scotland with his army into
England, fuddenly after his coming to
London, Richard Cromwell, the then
Prote&or's authority was laid afide,
and the old Parliament reftored; the
Council of State fat as formerly. The
firft act they put the General upon was,
to take down the city gates and port-
culluTes, an aft which, the General faid,
was fitter for a Janizary to do than for
a General ; yet he effe&ed the Commands
received, and then lodged in the city
with his army. The citizens took this
pulling down of their gates fo heinoufly,
ihat one night the ruder fort of them
procured all the rumps of beef, and
other baggage, and publickly burnt them
ill the ftreets, in derifion of the then
Parliament,
124 MR * Lilly's History
Parliament, calling them that now fat,
The Rump. This hurly-burly was ma-
naged as well by the General's foldiers
as the citizens. The King's health was
publickly drank all over the city, to the
confufion of the Parliament. The mat-
ter continued until midnight, or longer.
The Council of State, fitting at White-
Hall, had hereof no knowledge, until
Sir Martin Noell, a difcreet citizen, came
about nine at night, and then firft in-
formed them thereof. The Council could
not believe it, until they had fent fome
minifters of their own, who affirmed
the verity thereof. They were at a ftand,
and could not refolve what to do ; at laft
Nevil Smith came, being one of them,
and publickly protefted there was but one
way to regain their authority, and to
be revenged of this affront, and to over-
throw the Lord General Monk, whom
they now perceived intended otherways
than he had pretended ; his counfel was,
to take away Monk's commiffion, and to
give a prefent commiffion to Major-Gene-
ral Lambert to be their General ; which
counfel of his, if they would take and put
it fpeedily in execution, would put an end
unto all the prefent mifchiefs. The
Council in general did all very well ap-
prove Nevil Smith's judgment ; but pre-
sently up ftarts Sir Arthur Hazellrigg,
of his Life and Times. 125
and makes a (harp inve&ive againft Lam-
bert, and concluded, he would rather
perifh under the King of Scots power,
than that Lambert fhould ever any more
have command under the Parliament.
The Lord General fuddenly after brings
in the long excluded Members to fit in
Parliament, being perfons of great judg-
ment, and formerly enforced from fitting
therein by the foldiery, and connivance
of thofe who filled themfelves the godly
part of the Parliament. Thefe honour-
able patriots prefently voted his Majefty's
coming into England, and fo he did in
May 1660. But becaufe Charles the Se-
cond, now (1667.) King of England,
Son of Charles the Firft, grandchild to
James the Firft, King of Great Brit-
tany, was fo miraculoufly reftored, and
fo many hundreds of years fince prophe-
fied of by Ambrofe Merlin, it will not
be impertinent to mention the prophe-
cies themfelves, the rather becaufe we have
feen their verification.
Ambrofe Merlin's Prophecy wrote
about 990 Years fince.
He calls King James, The Lion of
Righteoulhefs ; and faith, when he died,
or was dead, there would reign a noble
White
126 Mr. Lilly's History
White King ; this was Charles the Firft.
The prophet difcovers all his troubles,
his flying up and down, his imprifon-
ment, his death ; and calls him Aquila.
What concerns Charles the Second, is
the fubject of our difcourfe : In the La-
tin copy it is thus :
Deinde ab Aufiro veniet cum Sole fuper
ligneos equos9 & fuper fpumante?n inunda-
tionem maris, Pullus Aquilte navigans in
Britanniam.
Et applicansftatim tunc altam domum A*
quilceJitiens, & cito aliamJitiet.
Deinde Pullus Aquilce nidificabit in fumma
rupe totius Britannice : nec juvenis occidet,
nec adfenem vivet.
This, in an old copy, is Engliflied
thus
:
f After then, fhall come through the
' fouth with the fun, on horfe of tree,
* and upon all waves of the fea, the
' Chicken of the Eagle, failing into Bri-
* tain, and arriving anon to the houfe of
4
the Eagle, he fhall fliew fellowfhip to
* them beafts.
• After, the Chicken of the Eagle fhall
* neftle in the higheft rock of all Britain
;
*
nay, he fhall nought be flain young
* nay, he nought come old/
Another Latin copy renders the laffc
verfe thus :
X)einde
of his Life and Times. 127
Deinde pullus Aquila nidificabit in fummo
rupturn, nec juvenis occidetur, nec ad fenium
perveniet* There is after this, pacificato
regno, 0?nnes occidet ; which is intended
of thofe perfons put to death, that fat as
Judges upon his father's death.
The Verification.
His Majefty being in the Low-Coun-
tries when the Lord General had re-
ftored the fecluded Members, the Par-
liament fent part of the Royal Navy to
bring him for England, which they did
in May 1660. Holland is Eaft from
England, fo he came with the fun ; but
he landed at Dover, a port in the fouth
part of England. Wooden-horfes, are
the Englifh fhips.
"Tunc nidificabit in fummo rupium.
The Lord General, and moft of the
gentry in England, met him in Kent,
and brought him unto London, then to
White-hall.
Here, by the higheft Rooch, (fome wjite
Rock,) is intended London, being the
metropolis of all England.
Since which time, unto this very day I
write this ftory, he hath reigned in Eng-
land, and long may he do hereafter. 1 o
December 1667.
6ad
128 Mr. Lilly's History-
Had I leifure, I might verify the whole
preceding part concerning King Charles.
Much of the verification thereof is men-
tioned in my Collection of Prophecies,
printed 1645. But his Majefty being
then alive, I forbore much of that fub-
je£t, not willing to give offence. I dedi-
cated that book unto him ; and, in the
conclufion thereof, I advifed his return
imto Parliament, with thefe words, Fac
hoc & vives.
There was alfo a Prophecy printed
1588, in Greek chara6lers, exaftly de-
cyphering the long troubles the Englifli
nation had from 1641 until 1660; and
then it ended thus
:
* And after that fhall come a dreadful
* dead man, and with him a Royal G/ [it
is Gamma in the Greek, intending C.
in the Latin, being the third letter in
the alphabet,] 1
of the beft blood in the
* world, and he (hall have the Crown, and
€
(hall fet England on the right way, and
* put out all herefies.'
Monkery being extinguifhed above
eighty or ninety years, and the Lord
General's name being Monk, is the Dead
Man. The Royal G. or C. is Charles
the Second, who, for his extraction,
may be faid to be of the beft blood in the
world,
Thefe
of his Life and Times. 129
Thefe two Prophecies were not given
vocally by the angels, but by infpe&ion
of the cryftal in types and figures, or by
apparition the circular way, where, at
fome difhmce, the angels appear, repre-
fenting by forms, fhapes, and creatures,
what is demanded. It is very rare, yea,
even in our days, for any operator or
taafter to have the angels fpeak articu-
lately ; when they do fpeak, it is like the
Irifh, much in the throat.
What further concerns his Majefty,
will more fully be evident about 1672 or
1674, or, at fartheft, in 1076. And
now unto my own aftions in 1660.
In the firft place, my fee- farm rents,
being of the yearly value of one hun-
dred and twenty pounds, were all loft
by his Majefty's coming to his reitera-
tion 3 but I do fay truly, the iofs thereof
did never trouble me, or did I repine
thereat.
In June of that year, a new Parlia-
ment was called, whereunto I was un-
willingly invited by two meflengers of the
Serjeant at Arms. The matter where-
upon I was taken into cuftody was, to
examine me concerning the perfon who
cut off the King's head, viz* the late
King's.
Sir Daniel Harvey, of Surrey, got the
bufineis moved againft me in great dif-
K pleafure,
130 Mr. Lilly's History
pleafure, becaufe, at the eleftion of new
Knights for Surrey, I procured the whole
town of Walton to ftand, and give their
voices, for Sir Richard Onflow. The
Committee to examine me, were Mr.
Prinn, one Colonel King, and Mr.
Richard Wefton of Gray's-Inn.
God's providence appeared very much
for me that day, for walking in Weftmin-
fter-Hall, Mr. Richard Pennington, fon
to my old friend Mr. William Penning-
ton, met me, and enquiring the caufe
of my being there, (aid no more, but
walked up and down the hall, and re-
lated my kindnefs to his father unto very
many Parliament men of Chefhire and
Lancafhire, Yorkfhire, Cumberland, and
thofe northern countries, who numeroufly
came up into the Speaker's chamber, and
bade me be of good comfort : at laft he
meets Mr. Wefton, one of the three un-
to whom my matter was referred for
examination, who told Mr. Pennington,
that he came purpofely to punifh me, and
would be bitter againft me; but hearing
it related, viz. my Angular kindnefs and
prefervation of old Mr. Pennington's
eftate, to the value of fix or feven thou-
fand pounds, 4
I will do him all the
* good I can,' fays he. * I thought he
* had never done any good ; let me fee
' him, and let him ftand behind me where
I fit
:'
of his L*fe and Times. i 3
1
'
I fit I did fo. At my firft appearance,
many of the young members affronted
me highly, and demanded feveral fcurril-
lous queftions. Mr. Wefton held a pa-
per before his mouth ; bade me anfwer
nobody but Mr. Prinn ; I obeyed his
command, and faved myfelf much trou-
ble thereby ; and when Mr. Prinn put
any difficult or doubtful query unto me,
Mr. Wefton prompted me with a fit
anfwer. At laft, after almoft one hour s
tugging, I defired to be fully heard what
I could fay as to the perfon who cut Charles
the Firft's head off. Liberty being given
me to fpeak, I related what follows, viz.
That the next Sunday but one after
Charles the Firft was beheaded, Robert
Spavin, Secretary unto Lieutenant-Gene-
ral Cromwell at that time, invited him-
felf to dine with me, and brought An-
thony Peirfon, and feveral others, along
with him to dinner: That their prin-
cipal difcourfe all dinner-time, was only,
'
who it was that beheaded the King ; one
faid it was the common hangman ; ano-
ther, Hugh Peters ; others alfo were no-
minated, but none concluded. Robert
Spavin, fo foon as dinner was done, took
me by the hand, and carried me to the
fouth window : faith he, < Thefe are all
• miftaken,_they have not named the man
' that did the fa& ; it was Lieutenant-
K 2 Colonel
^32 Mr. Lilly's History'
'Colonel JO ICE;. I was in the room
* when he fitted himfelf for the work,
4
ltood behind him when he did it;
*
when done, went in again with him
:
* There is no man knows this but my
' mafter, viz. Cromwell, Commiflary
'
Ireton, and myfelf.' ' Doth not Mr.
' Rufliworth know it?' faid I. < No, he
* doth not know it,' faith Spavin. The
fame thing Spavin fmce had often related
tinto me when we were alone. Mr.
Prinn did, with much civility, make a
report hereof in the Houfe yet Norfolk
the Serjeant, after my difcharge, kept
me two days longer in arreft, purpofely to
get money of me. He had fix pounds, and
his Meflenger forty fhillings ; and yet I was
attached but upon Sunday, examined on
Tuefday, and then difcharged, though
the covetous Serjeant detained me until
Thurfday. By means of a friend, I cried
quittance with Norfolk, which friend was
to pay him his falary at that time, and
abated Norfolk three pounds, which we
fpent every penny at one dinner, without
inviting the wretched Serjeant : but in
the latter end of the year, when the
King's Judges were arraigned at the Old-
Bailey, Norfolk warned me to attend,
believing I could give information con-
cerning Hugh Peters. At the fefliohs I
attended during its continuance, but was
never
of his Life and Times. 133
never called or examined. There I heard
Harrifon, Scott, Clement, Peters, Hacker,
Scroop, and others of the King's Judges,
and Cook the Sollicitor, who excellently-
defended himfelf ; I fay, I did hear what
they could fay for themfelves, and after
heard the fentence of condemnation
pronounced againft them by the incom-
parably rnodeft and learned Judge Bridg-
man, now Lord Keeper of the Great
Seal of England.
One would think my troubles for that
year had been ended ; but in January
i66t, one Everard, a Juftice of Peace in
Weftminfter, ere I was ftirring, fent a
Serjeant and thirty four mufqueteers for
me to White-Hall : he had twice that
night feized about fixty perfons, fup-
pofed fanaticks, very ddpicable perfons,
many whereof were aged, fome were
water-bearers, and had been Parliament -
foldiers ; others, of ordinary callings : all
thefa were guarded unto White-Hall, into
a large room, until day-light, and then
committed to the Gate-Houfe : I was had
into the guard-room, which I thought
to be hell \ fome therein were fleeping,
others fwearing, others fmoaking tobac-
co. In the chimney of the room I be-
lieve there was two bufhels of broken
tobacco-pipes, almpil half one load of
allies. Everard, about nine in the morn-
K 3 ing,
134 MR - Lilly's History
ing, comes, writes my mittimus for the
Gate-Houfe, then fhews it me : I muft
be contented. I defired no other cour-
tefy, but that I might be privately carried
unto the Gatc-Houfe by two foldiers
;
that was denied. Among the miferable
crew of people, with a whole company^ of
foldiers, I marched to prilbn, and there
for three hours was in the open air upon
the ground, where the common houfe of
office came down. After three hours, I
was advanced from this (linking place up
the ftairs, where there was on one fide a
company of rude fwearing perfons $ on
the other fide many (Quakers, who lo-
vingly entertained me. As foon as I was
fixed, I wrote to my old friend Sir Ed-
ward Walker, Garter King at Arms,
who prefently went to Mr. Secretary Ni-
cholas, and acquainted him with my con-
dition. He ordered Sir Edward to write to
Everard to releafe me, unlefs he had any
particular information againft me, which
he had not, He further faid, it was not
his Majefty's pleafure that any of his
fubjefts fhould be thus had to prifon
withqut good caufe (hewed before. Up-
on receipt of Sir Edward's letter, Eve-
rard difcharged me, I taking the Oaths
of Allegiance and Supremacy. This day's
work coft me thirty feven (hillings. Af-
terwards Everartf ftood to be Burgefs for
Weftmii}-
of his Life and Times. 135
Weftminfter; fent me to procure him
voices. I returned anfwer, that of all
men living he deferved no couitefy from
me, nor fhould have any.
In this year 1660, I fued out my par-
don under the Broad Seal of England,
being io advifed by good counfel, becaufe
there fhould be no obftru&ion ; I paffed
as William Lilly, Citizen and Salter of
London ; it coft me thirteen pounds iix
{hillings and eight pence.
There happened a verification of an
aftrological judgment of mine in this
year 1660, which becaufe it was pre-
difted fixteen years before it came to
pafs, and the year exprefly nominated, I
thought fit to mention,
In page 1 1 1 . of my Prophetical Mer-
lin, upon three fextile x^fpects of Saturn
and Jupiter, made in 1659 and 1660, I
wrote thus
—
' This their friendly falutation com-
* forts us in England, every man now
* poiiefles his own vineyard -> our young
* youth grow up unto man's eftate,
* and our old men live their full years
;
* our nobles and gentlernen root again ;
* our yeomanry, many years difeonfolated,
' now take pleafure in their hufbandry.
* The merchant fends out Ihips, and hath
4
profperous returns ; the mechanick hath
i qqick trading : Here is almoft a new
K 4 * world
;
136 Mr. Lilly's History
4
world; new laws, new Lords. Now
' my country of England fhall fhed no
* more tears, but rejoice with, and in
' the many bleffings God gives or affords
1
her annually.'
And in the fame book, page 118,
over-rigainfl the year 1660, you fhall
find, A Bonny Scot a£ts his part.
The long Parliament would give Charles
the Second no other title than King of
Scots.
—
I alfo wrote to Sir Edward Walker,
Kt. Garter King dX Arms in 1659, he then
being in Holland
—
*7V, Dominufqi vejler videbitis Angliam,
infra duos Annos.—For in 1662, his moon
came by direction to the body of the fun.
But he came in upon the afcendant
direfted unto the Trine of Sol and antif-
cion of Jupiter.
—
And happy it was for the nation he did
come in, and long and profperouily may
he reign amongft us.
In 1663 and 1664, I had along and
tedious law-fuit in Chancery, M. C. com-
ing to Quartile of Saturn and the oc-
casion of that fuit, was concerning
houfes ; and my enemy, though aged, had
1*0 beard, was really faturnine. We
came unto a hearing Feb. 1661, before,
tlje Matter of the Rolls, Sir Harbottle
Grimftonj
of his Life and Times. 137
Grimfton, where I had the victory, but
no cofts given me.
My adverfary not fatisfied with that
judgment, petitioned that moft juft and
honourable man the Lord Chancellor
Hyde, for a re-hearing his caufe before
him.
It was granted, and the 13 June 1664,
my M. C. then directed to Quartile of
Venus and Sol. His Lordfhip moft judici-
oully heard it with much attention, and
when my adverfary's counfel had urged
thofe depofitions which they had againft
me, his Lordfhip flood up, and faid,
* Here is not one word againft Mr.
« Lilly.—
I replied, f My Lord, I hope I fhajl
4
have cofts/
* Very good reafon/ faith he; and fo
I had : And, at my departure out of
court, put off his hat, and bid God be
with you.
This is the month of Dec. 1667, where-
in, by misfortune, he is much traduced
and highly persecuted by his enemies : is
alfo retired, however not in the leaft
queftioned for any indire£t judgment as
as Chancellor, in the Chancery -
y [but in
other things he hath been very foul, as in
the articles drawn up by the" Parliament
againft hirn, it appears. Which articles
I pre-
138 Mr. Lilly's Hjstort
I prefume you have not feen, otlierwife
you would have Seen of another mind,
A W] for there was never any perfon
fat in that place, who executed juftice
with more uprightnefs, or judgment, or
quicknefs for difpatch, than this veiy noble
Lord. God, I hope, in mercy will pre-
ferve his perfon from his enemies, and
in good time reftore him unto all his
honours again : From my foul I wifh it,
and hope I {hall live to fee it. Amen:
Fiat oh tu Deus jujliticc.
In 1662, and 1664, I was made church-
warden of Walton upon Thames, fettling
as well as I could the affairs of that di-
ffracted parifh, upon my own charges ;
and upon my leaving the place, forgave
them feven pounds odd money due unto
me.
In 1664, I had another law-fuit with
Captain Colborn, Lord of the manor of
Efher, concerning the rights of the pa-
rifh of Walton. He had newly pur-
chafed that manor, and having one hun-
dred and fifty acres of ground, formerly
park and wood ground lying in our pa-
rifh, conceived, he had right of com-
mon in our parifh of Walton : There^
upon he puts three hundred fheep upon
the common ; part whereof I impounded :
He replevins therp, gave me a declara-
tion. I anfwered it, The trial was to be
tit
of his Life and Times. 139
at the Affizes at Kingfton in April 1664.
When the day of trial came, he had not one
witnefs in his caufe, I had many ; where-
upon upon conference, and by mediation,
lie gave me eleven pounds for my charges
fuftained in that fuit, whereof I returned
him back again fifty (hillings : forty {hil-
lings for himfelf, and ten (hillings for
the poor of the parifh he lived in.
This I did at my own coft and charges,
not one parifhioner joining with me. I
had now M. C. unto Quartile of Venus
and Sol—both in my fecond, Ergo, I got
money by this thing, or fuit. Sir Bol-
ftrode Whitlock gave me counfel.
Now I come unto the year 1665, where-
in that horrible and devouring plague fo
extre&mjy raged in the city of London.
27th of June 1665, I retired into the
country to my wife and family, where
fince I have wholly continued, and fo in-
tend by permiffion of God. I had, before
I came away, very many people of the
poorer fort frequented my lodging, many
whereof were fo civil, as when they
brought waters, viz. urines, from in-*
fected people, they would ftand pur-
pofely at a diftance. I ordered thofe in-
fected, and not like to die, cordials, and
caufed them to fweat, whereby many re-
covered. My landlord of the houfe was
.afraid of thofe poor people, I nothing at
1 all,
140 Mr. Lilly's History
all. He was defirous I fhould be gone.
He had four children : I took them with
me into the country and provided for
them. Six weeks after I departed, he,
his wife, and man-fervant died of the
plague.
In Monarchy or no Monarchy, printed
1 65 I had framed an Hieroglyphick,
which you may fee in page the 7th, re-
prefenting a great licknefs and mortality;
wherein you may fee the reprefentation
of people in their winding-fheets, per-
sons digging graves and fepultures, cof-
fins, &c. All this was performed by the
more fecret Key of ^ftrology, or Pro-
phetical Aftrology.
In 1666, happened that miraculous
conflagration in the city of London,
whereby in four days, the moft part
thereof was confumed by fire. In my
Monarchy or no Monarchy, the next fide
after the coffins, and pickaxes, there is
reprefentation of a great qty all in flames
of fire. The memorial whereof fome
Parliament men remembering, thought
fit to fend for me before that Committee
which then did fit, for examination of
the caufes of the fire ; and whether there
was no treachery or defign in the bufinefs,
his Majefty being then in war both with
the French and Dutch. The fummons
tQ
of his Life and Times. 141
to appear before that Committee was as
followeth.
Monday, 22d O&ober, 1666.
At the Committee appointed to enquire
after the Caufes of the late Fires,.
Ordered,
That Mr. Lilly do attend this Com-
mittee on Friday next being the 25th of
October 1666, at two of the clock in the
afternoon in the Speaker's chamber; to
anlwer fuch queftions as fhali be then and
there aflced him.
Robert Brooke.
By accident I was then in London,
when the fummons came unto me. I was
timorous of Committees, being ever by
fome of them calumniated, upbraided,
fcorned, and derided. However I muft
and did appear ; and let me never forget
that great affection and care yourfelf (Oh
moft excellent and learned Efquire Afh-
mole) (liewed unto me at that time. Firft,
your affection in going along with me
all that day ; fecondly, your great pains
and care, in fpeaking unto many worthy
Members of that Committee your ac-
quaintance,
142 Mr. Lilly's History
quaintance, that they fhould befriend me>
and not permit me to be affronted, or
have any difgraceful language caft upon
me. I muft ferioufly acknowledge the
perfuafions fo prevailed with thofe gene-
rous fouls, that I conceive there was
never more civility ufed unto any than
unto myfelf ; and you know, there were
no fmall number of Parliament men ap-
peared, when they heard I was to be
there.
Sir Robert Brooke fpoke to this pur-
pofe
:
f Mr. Lilly, This Committee thought
* fit to fummon you to appear before them
* this day, to know, if you can fay any
* thing as to the caufe of the late fire, or
* whether there might be any defign
' therein. You are called the rather hi-
' ther, becaufe in a book of yours long
* fince printed, you hinted fomef fuch thing
* by one of your Hieroglyphicks/ Unta
which I replied,
May it pleafe your Honours,
* After the beheading of the late King;
* confidering that in the three fubfequent
*
years the Parliament a6ted nothing which
4
concerned the fettlement of the nation
* in peace ; and feeing the generality of
* people diffatisfied, the citizens of Lon-
'
don difcon tented, the foldiery prone to
* mutiny,
of his Life and Times. 145
c
mutiny, I was defirous, according to
* the beft knowledge God had given me,
*
to make enquiry by the art I ftudied,
4
what might from that time happen unto
4
the Parliament and nation in general.
4
At laft, having fatisfied myfdf as well as
' I could, and perfected my judgment
* therein, I thought it mod convenient
* to fignify my intentions and conceptions
' thereof, in Forms, Shapes, Types,
* Hieroglyphicks, &c. without any com-
* mentary, that fo my judgment might
' be concealed from the vulgar, and made
* manifeft only unto the wife. I herein
4
imitating the examples of many wife
' philofophers who had done the like/
* Sir Robeit/ faith one, ' Lilly is yet
4
fitb vejtibulo'
I proceeded further. Said I, « Having
* found, Sir, that the city of London
* (hould be fadly afflifted with a great
* plague, and not long after with an
* exorbitant fire, I framed thefe two
* hieroglyphicks as reprefented in the
4
book, which in effect have proved very
4
true.'
* Did you forefee the- year/ faid one?
4
I did not,' faid I, '
or was defirous
:
* of that I made no fcrutiny/ I pro-
ceeded
4
Now, Sir, whether there was any de-
4
fign of burning the city, or any em-
4
ployed
144 MR - Lilly's History
' ployed to that purpofe, I muft deal iit-
' genuoufly with you, that fince the fire,
*
I have aken much pains in the fearch
i thereof, but cannot or could not give
* myfelf any the leaft fatisfa&ion there-
* in. I conclude, that it was the only
€
finger of God ; but what inftruments
* he ufed thereunto, I am ignorant/
The Committee feemed well pleafed with
what I fpoke, and difmifled me with great
civility.
Since which time no memorable aftion
hath happened unto me, my retirement
impeding all concourfe unto me.
I have many things more to com-
municate, which I fhall do, as they offer
themfelves to memory.
In Anno 1634, and 1635, I had much
familiarity with John Hegenius, Do£lor
of Phyfick, a Dutchman, an excellent
fcholar and an able phyfician, not meanly
verfed in aftrology. Unto him, for his
great civility, I communicated the art of
framing Sigils, Lamens, &c. and the ufe
of the Mofaical Rods :
— and we did
create feveral Sigils to very good purpofe.
I gave him the true key thereof, viz.
inftrufted him of their forms, charac-
ters, words, and laft of all, how to give
them vivification, and what number or
numbers were appropriated to every pla-
va j i net
:
of his Life and Times. 145
rt€t : Cum multis aliis in libris veterum
latentibus ; aut perfpicue non intelleffiis.
I was well acquainted with the Specu-
lator of John a Windor, a fcrivener,
fometimes living in Newbury. This
Windor was club-fifted, wrote with a
pen betwixt both his hands. I have feen
many bonds and bills wrote by him. He
was much given to debauchery, fo that
at fome times the Daemons would not
appear to the Speculator ; he would then
fuffumigate : fometimes, to vex the fpirits,
he would cUrfe them, fumigate with con-
traries. Upon his examination before Sir
Henry Wallop, Kt. which I have feen,
he faid, he once vifited Dr. Dee in Mort-
lack ; and out of a book that lay in the
window, he copied out that call which he
ufed, when he invocated
It was that—which near the beginning
of it hath thefe words,
Per virtutem illorwn qui invocant nomen tuum9
Hermeli
—
rnitte nobis tres Angelos^ &c,
Windor had many good parts, but was
a moft lewd perfon : My mafter Wright
knew him well, and having dealing in
thofe parts, made ufe of him as a fcri-
vener.
Oliver Withers, fervant to Sir H. Wal-
lop, brought up a Windor's examination
L unto
146 Mr. Lilly's History
unto London, purpofely for me to pe-
rufe. This Withers was Mr. Fiike's
fcholar three years more or lefs, to learn
aftrology of him ; but being never the
\vifer, Filke brought him unto me : by
fhewing him but how to judge one fi-
gure, his eyes were opened : He made
the Epiftie before Dr. Neve's book, now
in Mr. Sander's hands, was very learned
in the Latin, Greek and Hebrew tongues.
Having mentioned Dr. John Dee, I
hold it not impertinent to fpeak fome-
thing of him; but more especially of
Edward Kelly's Speculator.
Dr. Dee himfelf was a Cambro Briton,
educated in the univerfity of Oxford,
there took his degree of Doctor after-
wards for many years in fearch of the
profounder ftudies, travelled into foreign
parts : to be ferious, he was Queen Eli-
zabeth's intelligencer, and had a falary
for his maintenance from the Secretaries
of State. He was a ready witted man,
quick of appreheiifion, very learned, and
of great judgment in the Latin and Greek
tongues. He was a very great invefti-
gator of the more fecret Hermeticai
learning, a perfeft aftronomer, a curious
aftrologer, a ferious geometrician ; to fpeak
truth, he was excellent in all kinds of
learning.
With
of his Life and Times. 147
With all this, he was the moll ambi-
tious perfon living, and moft defirous of
fame and renown, and was never fo well
pleafed as when he heard himfelf ftiled,
Moft Exellent.
He was ftudious in chymiftry, and at-
tained to good perfeftion therein; but
his fervant, or rather companion, Kelly,
out-went him, viz. about the Elixir or
Philofopher's Stone ; which neither Kelly
or Dee attained by their own labour and
induftry. It was in this manner Kelly
obtained it, as I had it related from an
ancient minifter, who knew the certainty
thereof from an old Englifh merchant,
refident in Germany, at what time both
Kelly and Dee were there.
Dee and Kelly being in the confines of
the Emperor's dominions, in a city where
refided many Englifh merchants, with
whom they had much familiarity, there
happened an old Friar to come to Dr.
Dee's lodging. Knocking at the door,
Dee peeped down the flairs. * Kelly/
fays he, ' tell the old man I am not at
* home/ Kelly did fo. The Friar faid, * I
* will take another time to wait on him/
Some few days after, he came again.
Dee ordered Kelly, if it were the fame
perfon, to deny him again. He did fo
;
at which the Friar was very angry, ' Tell
L 2 « thy
I
148 Mr. Lilly's History
4
thy mafter I came to fpeak with him and
' to do him good, becaufe he is a great
* fcholar and famous ; bat now tell him,
* he put forth a book, and dedicated it to
* the Emperor : it is called Monas Hiero-
* gliphicas. He underftands it not. I
* wrote it myfelf, I came to inftruft him
* therein, and in fome other more pro-
* found things. Do thou, Kelly, come
* along with me, I will make thee more
* famous than thy mafter Dee.'
Kelly was very apprehenfive of what
the Friar delivered, and thereupon fud-
denly retired from Dee, and wholly ap-
plied unto the Friar ; and of him either
had the Elixir ready made, or the perfect
method of its preparation and making.
The poor Friar lived a very fhort time
after : whether he died a natural death,
or was otherwile poifoned or made away
by Kelly, the merchant who related this,
did not certainly know.
How Kelly died aftenvards at Prague,
you well know : he was born at Wor-
cefter, had been an apothecary. Not a-
bove thirty years fmce he had a fifter lived
in Worcester, who had fome gold made
by her brother's projedion.
Dr. Dee died at Mortlack in Surrey,
very poor, enforced many times to fell
fome book or other to buy his dinner
with, as Dr. Napier of Linford in Buck-
inghamfhire
of ins Life and Times. 149
inghamfhire oft related, who knew him
very well.
I have read over his book of Confe-
rence with Spirits, and thereby perceive
many weaknefles in the manage of that
way of Mofaical learning : but I con-
ceive, the reafon why he had not more
plain refolutions, and more to the pur-
pofe, was, becaufe Kelly was very vicious,
unto whom the angels were not obe-
dient, or willingly did declare the quef-
tions propounded ; but I could give other
reafons, but thofe are not for paper.
I was very familiar with one Sarah
Skelhorn, who had been Speculatrix unto
one Arthur Gauntlet about Gray's-Inn-
Lane, a very lewd fellow, profefling phy-
fick. This Sarah had a perfeft fight, and
indeed the beft eyes for that purpofe I
ever yet did fee. Gauntlet's books, after
he was dead, were fold, after I had pe-
rufed them, to my fcholar Humphreys:
there were rare notions in them. This
Sarah lived a long time, even until her
death, with one Mrs. Stockman in the
Ifle of Purbeck, and died about fixteen
years fince. Pier miftrefs one time being
defirous to accompany her mother, the
Lady Beconsfield, unto London, who
lived twelve miles from her habitation,
caufed Sarah to infpect her cryital, to
fee if file, yiz, her mother, was gone,.
t 3 yea
150 Mr. Lilly's History
yea or not : the angels appeared, and
fhewed her mother opening a trunk, and
taking out a red waiftcoat, whereby fhe
perceived fhe was not gone. Next day fhe
went to her mother's, and there, as fhe
entered the chamber, fhe was opening
a trunk, and had a red waiftcoat in her
hand. Sarah told me oft, the angels
would for fome years follow her, and
appear in every room of the houfe, until
fhe was weary of them.
This Sarah Skelhorn, her call unto the
cryftal began,
• Oh ye good angels, only and only,' &c.
Ellen Evans, daughter of my tutor
Evans, her call unto the cryftal was this :
O Micoly O tu Micoly regina pigmeorum
veni, &c.
Since I have related of the Queen of
Fairies, I fhall acquaint you, that it is not
for every one, or every perfon that thefe
angelical creatures will appear unto, though
they may fay over the call, over and
over, or indeed is it given to very many
perfons to endure their glorious afpefts
;
even very many have failed juft at that
prefent when they are ready to manifeft
themfelves ; even perfons otherwife of
undaunted fpirits and firm refolution, are
herewith aftonifhed, and tremble ; as it
happened not many years fince with us.
A very fober difcreet perfon, of virtuous
of his Life and Times. 151
life and converfation, was beyond meafure
defirous to fee fornething in this nature.
He went with a friend into my Hurft
Wood : the Queen of Fairies was invo-
cated, a gentle murmuring wind came firft
;
after that, amongft the hedges, a fmart
whirlwind; by and by a ftrong biaft of wind
blew upon the face of the friend,—and
the Queen appearing in a moft iiluftrious
glory, '
No more, I befeech you,' (quoth
the friend:) 'My heart fails j
I am not
4
able to endure longer.' Nor was he : his
black curling hair rofe up, and I believe
a bullrufh would have beat him to the
ground : he was foundly, laughed at, &c.
Sir Robert Holborn, Knight, brought
once unto me (a) Gladwell of Suffolk, who
had formerly had fight and conference
with Uriel and Raphael, but loft them
both by carelefihefs ; fo that neither of
them both would but rarely appear, and
then prefently be gone, refolving nothing.
He would have given me two hundred
pounds to have aflifted him for their
recovery, but I am no fqch man.—Thofe
glorious creatures, if well commanded,
and well obferved, do teach the matter
(a) Mr. Gilbert Wakering gave him his berril
when he died ; ii was of the largenefs qf a good big
orange, fet in ftlver, with a crofs on the top, and ano-
ther on the handle ; and round about engraved the
names of thefe angeis, Raphael, Qabrjel, IJnel.
h 4 ^ny
152 Mr. Lilly's History
any thing he defires ; Amantfccreta, fugi-
unt aperta. The Fairies love the fouthern
fide of hills, mountains, groves.—Neat-
nefs and cleanlinefs in apparel, a ftrift
diet, an upright life, fervent prayers unto
God, conduce much to the affiftance of
thofe who are curious thefe ways.
It hath been my happinefs to meet
with many rarities in my time unex-
pectedly. I had a fitter lived in the
Minories, in that very houfe where fcav
merly had lived one Evans, not my tu-
tor, but another far exceeding him in
aftrology, and all other occult learning,
queftioned for his life about 16 12. I am
fure it was when the prefent Earl of
Manchefter's father was Lord Chief Juf-
tice of England. He was found guilty
by a peevifh Jury : but petitioning King
James by a Greek petition, as indeed he
was an excellent Grecian ; f By my faul/
faid King James, ' this man fhall not
c
die ; I think he is a better Grecian
* than any of my Bifiiops :'
fo his life
was fpared, &c. My filler's mafter when
new modelling the houfe, broke up a
window, under which were Evans's fecret
manufcripts, and two moulds in brafs ;
one of a man, the other of a woman.
I bought the moulds and (a) book for
(a) From thefe manufcripts he gained his firft
knowledge.
five
of his Life and Times. 153
five (hillings; the fecrets were wrote in
an imperfect Greek character ; but after
I found the vowels, all the reft were pre-
fently clear enough.
You fee, moft worthy Sir, I write
freely; it is out of the fmcerity of my
affection, many things wrote by me hav-
ing been more fit for a fepulture than a
book : But,
§>uo major eft virorum frajlantium> tui
fimiliwn inopia ; eo mihi charior ejl, & effe
debet & amicitia tua : Quam quidem omnibus
qfficiis, &Jludiis, quce a fumma benevole?itia
pojjunt, perpetub colam : However, who
ftudy the curiofities before-named, if they
are not very well verfed in aftrology,
they fhall rarely attain their defired ends.
There was, in the late times of troubles,
one Mortlack, who pretended unto Spe-
culations, had a eryftal, a call of Queen
Mab, one of the Queen of Fairies ; he
deluded many thereby: at laft I was
brought into his company ; he was de-
filed to make invocation, he did fo ; no-
thing appeared, or would : three or four
times in my company he was put upon
to do the work, but could not; at laft
he faid he could do nothing as long as I
was in prefence. I at laft fhewed him his
error, but left him as I found him, a
pretended ignoramus.
I may
154 MR - Lilly's History
I may feem to fome to write incredibilia ;
be it fo, but knowing unto whom, and
for whofe only fake, I do write them,
I am much comforted therewith, well
knowing you are the moft knowing man
in thefe curiofities of any now living in
England ; and therefore it is my hope,
thele will be a prefent well-becoming you
to accept.
Prceclara omnia quam difficilia Jint, his
prtefertim temporibus .
(
Celeberrbrie Armiger, )
nan te fngit and therefore I will acquaint
you with one memorable ftory related
unto me by Mr. John Marr, an excellent
mathematician and geometrician, whom
I conceive you remember : he was fervant
to King James and Charles the Firft.
At firft, when the Lord Napier, or
Marchifton made publick his Logarithms,
Mr. Briggs, then reader of the aftrono-
my lecture at Grefham-College in Lon-
don, was fo furprized with admiration of
them, that he could have no quietnefs,
in himfelf, until he had feen that noble
perfon the Lord Marchifton, whofe only
invention they were : he acquaints John
Marr herewith, who went into Scotland
before Mr. Briggs, purpofely to be there
when thefe two fo learned perfons fhould
meet. Mr. Briggs appoints a certain day
when to meet at Edinburgh : but failing
thereof, the Lord Napier was doubtful he
would
OF HIS klFE AND TlMES. I
55
would not come. It happened one day
as John Marr and the Lord Napier were
fpeaking of Mr. Briggs ;
f
Ah, John/
faith Marchifton, ' Mr. Briggs will not
' now come:' at the veryinftant one knocks
at the gate ; John Marr hafted down, and
it proved Mr. Briggs, to his great con-
tentment. He brings Mr. Briggs up into
my Lord's chamber, where almoft one
quarter of an hour was fpent, each be-
holding other almoft with admiration,
before one word was fpoke : at laft Mr.
Briggs began.
* My Lord, I have undertaken this
* long journey purpofely to fee your per-
* fon, and to know by what engine of
' wit or ingenuity you came firft to think
* of this moft excellent help unto aftro-
' nomy, viz. the Logarithms ; but, my
* Lord, being by you found out, I won-
* der no body elfe found it out before,
* when now known, it is fo eafy.' He
was nobly entertained by the Lord Na-
pier, and every fummer after that, during
the Lord's being alive, this venerable man,
Mr. Briggs, went purpofely into Scot-
land to vifit him. Tempora nunc mutantur.
Thefe two perfons were worthy men in
their time ; and yet the one, viz. Lord
Marchifton, was a great lover of aftro-
logy, but Briggs the moft fatirical man
againft it that hath been known : but the
reafon
156 Mr. Lilly's History*
reafon hereof I conceive was, that Briggs
was a fevere Prefbyterian, and wholly
converfant with perfons of that judg-
ment; whereas the Lord Marchifton was
a general fcholar, and deeply read in all
divine and human hiftories : it is the
fame Marchifton who made that moft feri-
ous and learned expofition upon the Re-
velation of St. John ; which is the beft
that ever yet appeared in the world.
Thus far proceeded Mr. William Lilly
in fetting down the account of his life,
with fome other things of note. Now
fhall be added fomething more which
afterwards happened during his retire-
ment at his houfe at Herfham, until his
death.
He left London in the year 1665, (as
he hath before noted) and betook him-
felf to the ftudy of pbyfick; in which,
having arrived at a competent degree of
knowledge, affifted by diligent obfervation
and practice, he defired his old friend
Mr. Afhmole, to obtain of his Grace Dr.
Sheldon, then Lord Achbifhop of Can-
terbury, a licenfe for the practice of phy-
fick ; which upon application to his Grace,
and producing a teftimonial [O&ober 8.
1670,] under the hands of two phyficians
of the college in London, on Mr. Lilly's
behalf, he moft readily granted, in the
manner following, viz. 'GIL-
of his Life and Times. 157
• G I L B E RTUS Providentia Divina
' Cantuarienfis Archiepifcopus totius An-
* glise Primas & Metropolitanus, Dilecto
4
nobis in Chrifto Gulielmo Lilly
* in Medicinis Profeflbri, Salutem, gra-
' tiam, & benediftionem. Cum ex fide
* digna relatione acceperimus Te in arte
* five facultate Medicinae per non modi-
* cum tempus verfatum fuiffe, multif-
* que de falute & fanitate corporis vere de-
« fperatis (Deo Omnipotente adjuvante)
* fubveniffe, eofq; fanaffe, nec non in
* arte predifta multorum peritorum lau-
< dabili teftimonio pro experientia, fideli-
* tate, diligentia & induftria tuis circa
* curas quas fufceperis peragendas in hu-
f
jufmodi Arte Medicinae merito commen-
« datum efle, ad prafticandum igitur &
« exercendum diflam Artem Medicinae in,
* & per totam Provinciam noftram Cant'
' (Civitate Lond' & circuitu feptem mil-
* liarum eidem prox' adjacen' tantummodb
* exceptis) ex caufis praediftis & aliis nos
* in hac per te jufte moventibus, praeftito
* primitus per Te Juramento de agnof-
* cendo Regiam luprernam poteftatem in
* caufis ecclefiafticis & temporalibus ac
* de renunciando, refutando, & recufando
* omni, & omnimodae Jurifdiflioni, Pote-
' ftati, Authoritati & Superioritati fora-
* neis juxta vim formam & effeftum Sta-
* tui Parliament hujus Inclyti Regni
* Anglic
1^8 Mr. Lilly's History
' Angliae in ea parte editi & provifi quan-
* turn nobis per Statuta hujus Regni
' Angliae liceat & non aliter neque alio
f modo Te admittimas & approbamus,
* Tibiq; Licentiam & Facultatem noftras
in hac parte, Tenore praefentium quam-
* diu Te bene & laudabiiiter gefleris be-
' nigne concedimus & elargimur. In
' cujus rei Teftimonium Sigillum (quo
4
in hac parte utimur) praefentibus ap-
' poni fecimus. Dat. Undecimo Die
4
Menfis Oftobris, Anno Domini 1670.
* Noftraeque Tranflationis Anno Oftavo/
Sigillum Radulph. Snowe
ET
Edm. Sherman
Regiftrarii.
S. Rich. Lloyd, Sur.
Vicarii in Spiritualibus Generalis
per Provinciam Cantuarienfem.
Hereupon he began to pra£tife more
openly, and with good fuccefs ; and every
Saturday rode to Kingfton, where the
poorer Yort flockt to him from feveral
parts, and received much benefit by his
advice and prefcriptions, which he gave
them freely, and without money. From
thole that were more able, he now and
then
of his Life and Times. 15^
then received a fhilling, and fometimes
an half crown, if they offered it to him,
otherwife he demanded nothing ; and, in
truth, his charity towards poor people
was very great, no lefs than the care and
pains he took in confidering and weighing
their particular cafes, and applying proper
remedies to their infirmities, which gained
him extraordinary credit and eftimation.
He was of a flrong conftitution, and
continued generally in good health, till
the 1 6th of Auguft 1674, when a vio-
lent humour difcovered itfelf in red fpots
all over his body, with little pufhes in
his head. This, in the winter [18 De-
cember] following, was feconded by a
diftemper w7
hereof he fell fick, and was
let blood in the left foot, a little above
the ancle.
The 20th of December following, a
humour defcended from his head to his
left fide, from eight o'clock at night till
the next mornii>g; and then flaying a
while in the calf of his leg, at length
defcended towards his toes, the anguifh
whereof put him into a fever. This hu-
mour fixed in two places on the top of
his left foot (one in that where he was
let blood two days before) which (upon
application of pledgets) growing ripe, they
were [28 Dec] lanced by Mr. Agar of
Kingfton, his apothecary (and no lefs a
fkilful
l6o Mr. Lilly's Historv
fkilful Surgeon :) after which he be-
gan to be at eafe, his fever abated, and
within five months the cure was per-
fected.
The 7th of November 1675, he was
taken with a violent fit of vomiting for
fome hours, to which a fever fucceeded,
that continued four months : This brought
his body exceeding low, together with a
dimnefs in his eyes, which after occafioned
him to make ufe of Mr. Henry Coley, as
his amanuenfis, to tranfcribe (from his
dictates) his aftrological judgments for
the year 1677; but the monthly obfer-
vations for that year, were written with
his own hand fome time before, though
by this time he was grown very dim-
fighted. His judgments and obfervations
for the fucceeding years, till his death,
(fo alfo for the year 1682,) were all com-
pofed by his directions, Mr. Coley com-
ing to Herfham the beginning of every
fummer, and frayed there, till, by con-
ference with him, he had difpatched them
for the prefs ; to whom, at thefe oppor-
tunities, he communicated his way of
judgment, and other aftrological ar-
cana's.
'»
In the beginning of the year 1681, he
had a flux, which weakened him much,
yet after fome time his ftrength encreafed;
but now his fight was wholly taken from
him,
of his Life and Times. 161
him, not having any glimmering as for-
merly.
He had dwelt many years at Herfham,
where his charity and kindnefs to his
poor neighbours was always great and
hearty; and the 30th of May 168 1, to-
wards the evening, a dead palfy began
to feize his left fide. The fecond of
June, towards evening, he took his bed,
and then his tongue began to falter. The
next day he became very dull and heavy
:
fometimes his fenfes began to fail him.
Henceforward he took little or nothing,
for his larinx fwelled, and that impeded
his fwallowing.
The fourth of June, Mr. Afhmole
went to vifit him, and found he knew
him, but fpake little, and fome of that
Icarce intelligible ; for the palfy began
now to feize upon his tongue.
The eighth of June he lay in a great
agony, infomuch that the fweat followed
drop after drop, which he bore with
wonderful courage and patience (as in-
deed he did all his ficknefs) without com-
plaint ; and about three o'clock the next
morning, he died, without any {hew of
trouble or pangs. Immediately before his
breath went from him, he fneezed three
times.
He had often, in his life-time, de-
fired Mr. Afhmole to take care of his
funeral, and now his widow defired the
M fame:
162 Mr. Lilly's History
fame : whereupon Mr. Afhmole obtained
leave from Sir Mathew Andrews (who
had the parfonage of Walton) to bury
him in the chancel of that church.
The ioth of June, his coarfe was
brought thither, and received by the mi-
nifter (in his furplice) at the Litch-Gates,
who, paffing before the body into the
church, read the firft part of the Office
for the Burial of the Dead. In the read-
ing defk he faid all the evening fervice,
and after performed the reft of the office
(as eftablifhed by law) in the chancel, at
the interment, which was about eight
o'clock in the evening, on the left fide of
the communion table, Mr. Afhmole af-
fifting at the laying him in his grave;
whereupon afterwards [9 July 168 1 .] he
placed a fair black marble ftone, (which
coft him fix pounds four fhillings and fix
pence) with this infcription following.
Ne Oblivione conteretur Urna
GULIELMI LILLII
ASTROLOGI PERITISSIMI,
QJJI FATIS CESSIT
Quinto Idus Junii Anno Chrifti Juliano
MDCLXXXI.
Hoc Illi pofuit amoris Monumentum
ELIAS ASHMOLE,
A R M I G E R.
of his Life and Times. 163
Shortly after his death, Mr. Afhmole
bought his library of books of Mrs. Ruth
Lilly, (his widow and executrix) for fifty
pounds : he oft times, in his life-time, ex-
prefled, that if Mr. Afhmole would give
that fum, he fhould have them.
The following Epitaphs (Latin and
Englifh) were made by George Smal-
ridge, then a fcholar at Weftminfter,
after Student of Chrift-Church in Ox-
ford.
In Mortem Viri Do&ifiimi Domini Gulielmi
Lilly, Aftrologi, nuper defun&i.
OCcidit atque fuis annalibus addidit atram
Aftrologus, qua non triftior ulla, diem
Pone triumphales, lugubris Luna, quadrigas*
Sol masftum picea nube reconde caput.
Ilium, qui Phcebi fcripfit, Phoebefq; labores
Eclipfin docuit Stella maligna pati.
f
Invidia Aftrorum cecidit, qui Sidera rexit
Tanta erat in notas fcandere cura domos.
Quod vidit, vifum cupiit, potiturq; cupito
Coelo, & Sidereo fulget in orbe decus.
Scilicet hoc nobis praedixit ab ane Cometa,
Et fati emicuit nuncia Stella tui *^
Fallentem vidi faciem gemuiq; videndo
Ilia fuit vati mortis imago fuo,
Civilis timuere alii primordia belli
Jejunam metuit plebs ftupefata famem
Non tantos tulerat bellumve famefve dolores
:
Aufpiciis enent haec relevanda tuis.
In cautam fubitus plebem nunc opprimat ends,
Securos fati mors violenta trahat.
Nemo eft qui videat moneatq; avertere fatum,
Ars jacet in Domini funera merfa fui
M 2 Solus
164 Mr. Lilly's History
Solus naturae refervare arcana folebat,
Solus & ambigui folvere jura poti.
Luftrafti erantes bene Ana mente Planetas
Confpeclum latuit ftellata nulla tuum
Defeiibs oculos pensarunt lumina mentis
Firefias oculis, mentibus Argus eras.
Cernere, Firefh, poteras ventura, fed, Arge,
In fatum haud poteras fat vigil efte tuum
Sed vivit nomen fern per cum fole vigebit,
Immemor Aftrblogi non erit ulla dies
Sa?cla canent laudes, quas ft percurrere cones,
Arte opus eft, Stellas qua numerare foles
Haereat hoc carmen cinerum cuftodibus urnis,
Hofpes quod fpargens marmora rore legat.
" Hie fitus eft, dignus nunquam cecidifie Propheta ;
** Fatorum interpres fata inopina fubit.
*' Verfari aethereo dum vixit in orbe folebat
:
" Nunc humilem jaclat Terra fuperba virum.
" Sed Coelum metitur adhuc refupinus in urna
" Vertitur in folitos palpebra claufa polos.
" Huic bufto invigilant folenni Jampade Muiae,
" Perpetuo nubes imbre fepulchra rigant.
c<
Ille oculis movit diftantia Sidera ncftris,
" Illam amota oculis traxit ad aftra Deus."
An Elegy upon the Death of William
Lilly the x^ftrologer.
OUR Prophet's gone ; no longer may our ears
Becharm'd withmufickof th' harmonious fpheres.
Let fun and moon withdraw, leave gloomy night
To (hew their Nuncio's fate, who gave more light
To th' erring world, than all the feeble rays
Of fun or moon ;
taught us to know thole days
Bright Titan makes ; follow'd the hafty fun
Through all his circuits ; knew th' unconftant moon,
And more unconftant ebbings of the flood ;
And what is moft uncertain, th* fa&ious brood,
Flowing
of his Life and Times. 165
Flowing in civil broils : by the heavens could date
The flux and reflux of our dubious itate.
He faw the eclipfe of fun, and change of moon
He faw, but feeing would not (hun his own :
Eclips'd he was, that he might (bine more bright,
And only chang'd to give a fuller light.
He having view'd the fky, and glorious train
Of gilded ftars, fcorn'd longer to remain
In earthly prifons : could he a village love,
Whom the twelve houfes waited for above?
The grateful ftars a heavenly manfion gave
T' his heavenly foul, nor could he live a flave
To mortal paflions, whofe immortal mind,
Whilft here on earth, was not to earth confin'd.
He muft be gone, the fLrs had fo decreed ;
As he of them, fo they of him, had need.
This meflage 'twas the blazing comet brought
;
I faw the pale-fac'd ftar, and feeing thought
For we could guefs, but only LILLY knew)
t did fome glorious hero's fall foreftiew :
A hero's fall'n, whofe death, more than a war,
Or fire, deferv'd a comet : th' obfequious ftar,
Could do no lefs than his fad fate unfold,
Who had their rifings, and their fettings told.
Some thought a plague, and fome a famine near
;
Some wars from France, fome fires at home did fear:
Nor did they fear too much : fcarce kinder fate,
But plague of plagues befell th' unhappy ftate
When LILLY died. Now fwords may fafely come
From France or Rome, fanaticks plot at home.
Now an unfeen, and unexpected hand,
By guidance of ill ftars, may hurt our land ;
Unfafe, becaufe fecure, there's none to (how
How England may avert the fatal blow.
He's dead, whofe death the weeping clouds deplore
I wifh we did not owe to him that fliow'r
Which long expected was, and might have ftill
Expected been, had not our nation's ill
Drawn from the heavens a fympathetick tear
:
England hath caufe a fecond draught to fear.
We have no fecond L I L LY, who may die,
'
And by his death may make the heavens cry.
M 3 Then
i66 Mr. Lilly's History
Then let your annals, Coley, want this day,
Think every year leap-year ; or if 't mud ftay,
Cloath it in black ; let a fad note ftand by,
And ftigmatize it to pofterity.
Here follows the Copy of an In-
dictment filed againft Mr. Lilly,
for which fee Page 104 of his Life.
THE jurors for the Lord Proteftor of
the commonwealth of England,
Scotland and Ireland, &c. upon their
oaths do prefent, that William Lilly, late
of the Parifh of St. Clements Danes, in
the County of Middlefex, Gent, not hav-
ing the fear of God before his eyes, but
being moved and feduced by the inftigation
of the devil, the 1 oth day of July, in the
Year of our Lord, 1654, at the Parifh a-
forefaid, in the County aforefaid, wick-
edly, unlawfully and deceitfully, did take
upon him, the faid William Lilly, by in-
chantment, charm and forcery, to tell and
declare to one Anne Eaft, the wife of
Alexander Eaft, where ten waiftcoats, of
the value of five pounds, of the goods and
chattels of the faid Alexander Eaft, then
lately before loft and ftolen from the faid
Alexander Eaft, fhould be found and be-
come ; and two fhillings and fixpence in
monies numbred, of the monies of the
z fai4
of his Life and Times. 167
faid Alexander, from the faid Anne Eaft,
then and there unlawfully and deceitfully,
he, the faid William Lilly, did take, re-
ceive, and had, to tell and declare to her
the faid Anne, where the faid goods, fo
loft and ftolen as aforefaid, fhould be
found and become : And alfo that he, the
faid William Lilly, on the faid tenth day
of July, in the Year of our Lord, 1654,
and divers other days and times, as well
before as afterwards, at the faid Parifli
aforefaid, in the County aforefaid, unlaw-
fully and deceitfully did take upon him,
the faid William Lilly, by enchantment,
charm and forcery, to tell and declare to
divers other perfons, to the faid jurors,
yet unknown, where divers goods, chat-
tels and things of the faid perfons yet un-
known, there lately before loft and ftolen
from the faid perfons yet unknown, fhould
be found and become ; and divers fums of
monies of the faid perfons yet unknown,
then and there unlawfully and deceitfully,
he the faid William Lilly did take, receive,
and had, to tell and declare to the faid per-
fons yet unknown, where their goods,
chattels and things, fo loft and ftolen, as
aforefaid, fhould be found and become, in
contempt of the laws of England, to the
great damage and deceit of the faid Alex-
ander and Anne, and of the faid other
M 4 per-
i6S Mr. Lilly's History, &c.
perfons yet unknown, to the evil and
pernicious example of all others in the
like cafe offending, againft the form of
the ftatute in this cafe made and provided,
and againft the publick peace, &c.
Anne East,
Emme Spencer,
Jane Gold,
Katherine Roberts,
Susannah Hulinge.
SEVERAL
S E V E R A E
OBS E R V AT IO NS
UPON THE
LIFE and DEATH
O F
CHARLES I.
LATE
KING of ENGLAND.
T O T H E
READER.
BY the enfuing difcourfe, I fhall draw
down upon me the malevolent in-
fluence of a number of people ; with
whofe malice being already acquainted, I
care the lefs : I can fall no lower than the
earth ; and whoever thrufts me down
fooner than nature intended, muft follow
me fooner than he would be willing.
An impudent prick-eared Prefbyterian
Prieft, rencounters me one day. ' Now
* Lilly, what fay you Mr. Merlinus unto
* Charles, the fon of Charles the prefent
* Scotifh King ; he'll pull the rebels out of
* White-Hall by the ears/ After a little
modeft fcolding, the man was calm, and
I promifed filence as to his name, &c. I
cannot
172 To the READER.
cannot wafh the Blackmoor white : thefe
woeful Priefts have fo hardned their hearts
againft this State, pipe I never fo n\elodi-
oufly unto them, or though the Parlia-
ment a6t never fo wifely and prudently for
our and their goods, they will rebel againft
the State, and envy me.
If any bufy-body objeft, it's befides my
talk to write the life of the late King ; I
fay, no : I could do no lefs. I have no
way injured him ; there is nothing I men-
tion of him which I had not from thofe
perfons of credit, who either faw the ac-
tions done, or heard with their ears the
words delivered. I have rather been fpar-
ing than lavifh, even when I mention his
worft or fouleft aflions : there are hun-
dreds alive, who will fwear I have more
balfam than corrofive in the difcourfe. I
would be forry to belie the dead, as Mr.
Fuller hath Paracelfus, who delivers him
unto pofterity for a drunkard, though
thofe * who lived with him, knew no
fuch thing by him, but report him vir-
tuous. But that Mr. Fuller may know
he hath wantonly abufed his oratory, I
let the ages to come know thus much of
himfelf, viz. That he took the Covenant
* Bifhop of Saltburg,
twice;
To the READER. 173
twice for the Parliament, before my face
in the Savoy Church ; invited others unto
it; yet, Apoftate-like, ran within few
days to Oxford, and there whined to his
companions, and protefted, the Countefs
of R. made him take it. * Let not thy
1
jefts, like mummy, be made of dead
* mens flefh. Abufe not any that are
* departed; for to wrong their merao-
* ries, is to rob their ghofts of their
* winding-fheets And yet this man
muft call Paracelfus a quackfalver, and
give him befides, other Billingfgate lan-
guage. Doflor Charlton -f-
ftiles Para-
celfus the ornament of Germany, &c.
Let the world and writings of the man
judge of the truth of Mr. Fuller's fcurvy
language.
"
I'll apologize for nothing I have now
writ; only, if in 1644 I differ fome-
what from what I now write about the
White King and Eagle ; I can fay for my-
felf, ' later counfels ever correft the form-
4
er;' and that's anfwer enough. Befides,
the White King's tragedy is now afted,
it was then on the ftage. Long live the
Parliament ; God blefs the Army ; all
* Says Thomas Fuller in his Holy State, page 156,
f In his Mag. cure of wounds, page 30.
hap-
174 To the READER,
happinefs unto the Commonwealth,
and unto all my difperfed friends in
England, Ireland, and Scotland. Adieu,
I am,
Corner-houfe, over
aga:
Brie
165
^£.j~f3
.
WILLIAM LILLY.
OBSER-
OBSERVAT IONS
UPON THE
LIFE and DEATH
KING CHARLES I.
CHARLES STUART, late King
of England, was born at Dumfer-
lin in Scotland, about fifteen miles
from Edinburgh, November 19, 1600.
He lived forty eight years, and about
feventy two days. He died in the begin-
ning of his climafterical year, fatal many
times where killing directions in the na-
tivity threaten. Several charafters are
given of him ; fome do too much mag-
nify him, others as much vilify him. He
was well educated by his father under
careful tutors, men of great knowledge
in all manner of qualities, fit for educa-
tion of princes ; and came to the crown
being,
176 On the Liee and Death
being aged twenty-four years and about
four months, even in the flower of his
age. Of his infancy we have little to
mention, only he was noted to be very
wilful and obftinate by Queen Anne his
mother, and fome others who then were
about him. His mother being told he
was very f\ck and like to die, faid, He
would not then die, or at that time, but
live to be the ruin of himfelf, and the
occafion of the lofs of his three King-
doms, by his too much wilfulnefs : A
fad prediction from a mother, who moft
entirely loved him ; but it proved very true
in the fequel. Some affirm file had that
forefight of his condition from a ftranger,
who had not only great judgment in nati-
vities, but in the more fecret learning ;
others, that one Englifh, a Scot, inform-
ed her thereof firft. Queen Anne may be
thoughtto have the fpirit of prophecy in
judging fo rightly on her fon and daugh-
ter ; for (he fo much fcorned and under-
valued the Palfgrave for a hufband unto
the Lady Elizabeth, that in moft of her
language after and before the marriage,
fhe would call her Goodwife Palfgrave;
a name and title fhe thought good enough
for any woman fhould marry that dull and
unfortunate man : and indeed her fears
and predictions proved moft true. ,
The
old Scotifh Lady his nurfe was ufed to
1 affirm
of King CHARLES' I. 177
affirm as much, and that he was of a very-
evil nature even in his infancy; and the
lady, who after took charge of him, can-
not deny it, but that he was beyond mea-
fure wilful, and unthankful : Yet while
he was young, he followed his book feri-
oufly, which his elder brother Prince
Henry could not endure ; and therefore
King James would frequently blame
Prince Henry with the negleft of his
book, and tell him how his brother Charles
followed it ; whereupon the Prince would
reply, when that he himfelf fliould be
King, he would make his brother Charles
Archbifliop of Canterbury. And to fpeak
truly of him, he had many Angular parts
in nature ; he was an excellent horfeman,
would fhoot well at a mark, had Angular
Ikill in limning and pictures, a good ma-
thematician, not unlkilful in mufick, well
read in divinity, excellently in hiftory,
and no lefs in the laws and ftatutes of
this nation ; he had a quick and fliarp
conception, would write his mind Angu-
larly well, and in good language and
ftile, only he loved long Parenthefes. He
would apprehend a matter in difference
betwixt party and party with great readi-
ngs, and methodife a long matter, or
contract it in few lines : infomuch as I
have heard Sir Robert Holborne oft fay,
he had a quicker conception, and would
N fooner
178 On the Life and Death
fooner underftand a cafe in law, or with
more fharpnefs drive a matter unto a
head, than any of his Privy Council ; in-
fomuch, that when the King was not at
the Council Tabic, Sii Robert never cared
to be there. He had alio, amongft other
his fpecial gifts, the gift of patience ; in-
fomuch, that if any offered him a long
difcourfe or fpeech, he would with much
patience, and without any interruption or
diftafte, hear a fpeech or ftory out at
length ; but then he would expect the
fame civility from others. He was a great
admirer of his Queen (if he diffembled
not), very uxorious, feldom denying her
any requeft, and for' her fake was very
civil to the old Queen of France her mo-
ther. The height of his affection unto
the Queen, fully you may perceive in
thofe tranfeendent expreffions of his, in
letters fent unto her, the copies whereof
were intercepted at Nafebv, and fince
printed -
y his conclufion being always,
<c
Thine eternally," or, " Farewel dear
«• heart."
He communicated bis weightieft, and
moft private defigns unto her; nay, tbere
was very little of any moment, but fhe
whs advifed with concerning it : and yet,
what reafon the Queen knew to the con-
trary, I could not learn, but ihe more
than
of King CHARLES I.
179
than once twitted him in the teeth with
diflembling, &C. a quality which indeed
he was as fufficiently mafter of as any
man living, and which queftionlefs he
had partly from his father, and partly
from the climate he was born in, viz.
Scotland. An indulgent father, careful,
if not too covetous to have provided pa-
trimonies for his children ; for he would
often fay, when fome beggarly courtier
propounded a monopoly or projeft unto
him, affirming it would produce unto
his coffers fo many thoufand pounds a
year, or much increafe his revenue; he
would prefently fend for the Judges, or
fome of his Counfel at Law, and if they
affirmed and confented he might by law
grant the thing defired, he often would
fay, * He knew no reafon, but that he
* might grant the matter in queftion,
f
. fith the thing itfelf was juft and law-
* ful, for he had many children to pro-
€
vide for/ Before the wars he was a
great enemy to bloodfhed, or wilful mur-
der, infomuch, that when one Stamford
had in an infurreclion in Fleet-ftreet, kil-
led a man, he could by no means be drawn
to fign a pardon unto him, though Stam-
ford had been Buckingham's favourite
and countryman, and very great inter-
ceffion had been made unto him for his
pardon. Where he once really affe&ed,
N 2 he
1 8© On the Life and Death
he was ever a perfeft friend ; witnefs his
continuance of affe&ion unto all Buck-
ingham's friends after his death, yea, un-
til his own laft decay of fortune. He
was a great lover, if not too much, of
the clergy, and highly advanced them ; in-
fomuch, as under him they grew firft in-
folent, and then faucy ; and indeed, his
indulgence unto them did in pait procure
unto himfelf the people's hate. Whether
his indulgence unto the clergy, proceeded
from a religious affeftion rather to ad-
vance the ways of righteoufnefs, or God's
caufe, than his own private defigns, it
hath been by many controverted $ but by
judicious men adjudged, that his own felf-
ends were therein more fought after than
propagating the gofpel ; fo that he ferved
himfelf by pretending to advance the
clergy. He erred extreamly in this one
bufinefs : when divers godly chriftians in
Norfolk delivered him a petition againft
the tyrant Wren, their bifliop ; he lent
for Wren, and bad him anfwer it. No-
velties in doctrine he hated, as much as
in ceremony. He loved not greatly the
ancient nobility or gentry of this nation
;
but did rather prefer creatures of his own,
or father's making. How much he loved
any of the nobility or gentry, but for his
own ends, he made it plainly appear at
Oxford, where he procured fundry of the
Eng-
of King CHARLES I. 181
Englifh nobles, and many gentlemen,
members of the Houfe of Commons, to
recede from the Parliament at Weftmin-
fter, and convene at Oxford, where him-
felf was ; and after that this mock Par-
liament, to fatisfy his defire, had convened
and afiembled, done what they could,
and thereby engaged their perfons and
eftates for him ; yet, becaufe they would
not in all things comply with his tyran-
nical humour, in a letter of his unto the
Queen, he complains of them unto her,
and faid,
c
He was fo troubled with a
* mongrel Parliament, he could do no-
* thing, &c/ This fcornful epithet, or
badge of difgrace, was all the reward any
of thofe unfortunate gentlemen had from
him ; but it was juft they fhould be fo
paid their wages, that in fo traiterous a
way deferted the Parliament at Weftmin-
fter, which fits to this day, &c. He
cared not much for the Common Law, or
very much for the Long Gown men ; he
learned that difaffeftion of his from his
father jemmy, who could not endure the
Lord Chief Juftice Coke, becaufe he ever
faid the Prerogative was bounded by Law,
and was limitable • but that excellent pa-
triot was worfted for his dear affedtion to
his country, by Egerton the Chancellor,
who maintained the contrary; and was
worthily as well rewarded by the old Scot
N 3 for
182 On the Life and Death
for his labour, Jemmy taking the Great
Seal from him before he was dead, yea,
in a difgraceful manner. The Common-
alty of England he neither cared for, took
much notice of, or much difrefpected
;
holding this opinion only, becaufe he was
their King, they ought in duty to ferve
him. The Citizens of London, though
they much courted him with their flat-
teries, and large gifts, and in his latefl
extremities relieved him with confiderable
fums of money, yea even at Oxford in foap
barrels ; yet he flighted them, thought
them ever too rich, and intended for them
a fevere revenge. Had he ever mattered
the Parliament, he was advifed, by one I
well knew, to have demoliflied half the
city : what he would have done had he
been victorious, God knows. He would
often fay, it was the nurfery of the
prefent rebellion, for fa he called the
wars, &c. and that the body of the city
was too large for the head. I have heard
it from the mouths of many worthy gen-
tlemen, whofe hap it was to ferve him in
the late wars, that they did believe, had
he, viz. the King, by arms conquered
this Parliament, he would have proved
the greateft tyrant the Englifh nation ever
had to rule other them, and therefore they
did ftill pray for a reconcilement betwixt
the Parliament and Him, but could never
endure
of King CHARLES I. 183
endure to hear he fhould conquer our ar-
mies, &c. And fo much in a manner *
dropped out from the mouth of Rupert,
who giving command for executing fome
things contrary to the laws; and being ac-
quainted with his miftake, " Tufh," quoth
he, " we will have no more law in Eng-
<c
land henceforward but the fword." He
had a natural imperfection in his fpeech,
at fome times could hardly get out a word,
yet at other times he would fpeak freely
and articulately ; as the firft day of his
coming before the High Court of Juftice,
where cafually I heard him ; there he
ftammered nothing at all, but fpoke very
diftinftly, with much courage and mag-
nanimity. As a man he had his imper-
fections, for he was veiy covetous and
gripple, and fparing of his treafure (qua-
lities nothing commendable in a King ;)
and if at any time liberal, it was rather
to the undeferving or boifterous fellows,
than well meriting : by how much the
more humbly any made their addreffes
unto him, by fo much the more was he
imperious, lofty, and at a diftance with
them ; whereupc 1 it moft an end hap-
pened, that the impudent and bold were
rewarded, and the virtuous flighted ; which
imperfection of his enforced a bold-fpi-
rited Courtier to fay, ' There was no way
* to get any boon from him, but by im-
N 4 4
pudence,
184 On the Life and Death
c
pudence, and cajoling him with unbe-
c
feeming language/ Yet he himfelf was
never obfcene in his fpeech, or affefted it
in others. I have only met with, or
taken notice of, two paffages, which
argue him guilty of unbefeemimg lan-
guage. Firft, in all or moft of his letters
unto the Queen, he terms the Parliament
rebels, though they were lawfully con-
vened, and not diflblved, or to be dif-
folved, without their own confent ; but
time, and their victories, acquainted him
with more civil language, and taught
him to ftyle them a Parliament. In ano-
ther letter of his unto her, he calls the
Lord General Fairfax, who was then the
Parliament's General, their brutifh Gene-
ral ; a moft uncivil term and epithet to
beflow upon fo brave a man, fo civil, fo
valiant, and fo much a gentleman as Fair-
fax was, and is. Affuredly the progeni-
tors of the Lord Fairfax were gentlemen*
and of good eftates then, and at what
time the anceftors of the Stuarts were
but poor ftewards unto a family in Scot-
land : and what a preferment it is now,
or was fome three hundred years fince, to
be bailiff or fteward unto a Scotifh. family,
let the whole world judge ; for this was
the true original of the rife and growth
of the family of Stuarts, and no other;
though fince by marriage they came to be
Kings
of King CHARLES I. 185
Kings of Scotland, (as their own chroni-
cles relate). He did not greatly court the
ladies, nor had he a lavifh affe6tion unto
many. He was manly, and well fitted for
venerious fports, yet rarely frequented il-
licit beds. I do not hear of above one or
two natural children he had, or left be-
hind him. He had exquifite judgment
by the eye, and phyfiognomy, to difcover
the virtuous from the wanton. He
honoured the virtuous, and was very fhy.
and choice in wandring thofe ways, and
when he did it, it was with much cauti-
oufnefs and fecrefy ; nor did he proftitute
his affeftion, but unto thofe of exquifite
perfons or parts : and this the Queen well
knew ; nor did fhe wink at it. He had
much of felf-ends in all that he did, and
a molt difficult thing it was to hold him
clofe to his own promife or word : he was
apt to .recede, unlefs fomething therein
appeared compliable, either unto his own
will, profit, or judgment ; fo that fome
foreign princes beftowed on him the cha-
racter of a moft falfe prince, and one that
never kept his word, unlefs for his own
advantage. Had his judgment been as
found, as his conception was quick and
nimble, he had been a moft accornplifhed
gentleman : and though in moft dangerous
refults, and extraordinary ferious c6nfulta-
tions, and very material, either for ftate
or*
*86 On the Life and Death
or commonwealth, he would himfelf give
the moft folid advice, and found reafons;
why fuch or fuch a thing fhoukl be lb,
or not fo ; yet was he moft eafily with-
drawn from his own moft wholefome and
found advice or refolutions ; and with as
much facility drawn on, inclined, to em-
brace a far more unfafe, and nothing io
wholefome a counfel. He would argue
logically, and frame his arguments arti-
ficially -
y yet never almoft had the happi-
nefs to conclude or drive on a defign in
his own fenfe, but was ever baffled with
meaner capacities. He feared nothing
in this world, or difdained any thing
more than the convention of a Par-
liament ; the very name was a bugbear
unto him. He was ever refraftory againft
the fummoning of a Parliament, and as
willingly would embrace an opportunity
to break it off. This his averfenefs be-
ing well known to fome grave members,
they contrived at laft by wit, and the
neceflity of the times, that his hands were
faft tied up in granting a triennial fit-
ting, or a perpetuity as it were unto
this prefent Parliament ; a thing he often
blamed himfelf for fubfcribing unto, and
as often thofe who importuned him there-
unto. And therefore I wonder at that
pafiage of his (if it was his, which I
doubt of) in that book publifhed under
V
of King CHARLES L 187
his name, and called his PORTRAI-
TURE, wherein he maintains this Par-
liament was called as much by his own
choice and inclination, as advice of others :
whereas it is manifeftly known even unto
all, it was only neceffity, and the impor-
tunity of the Englifh, who would not
fight with the Scots, and this only caufe
was it which gave occafion for calling of
this Parliament ; the Scots at prefent
being pofleffed of Newcaftle. For the book
itfelf, it maintains fo many contradidtions
unto thofe things manifefted by his own
letters, under his own hands, unto the
Queen, that I conceive the raoft part of it
Apocrypha ; the Meditations or Pfalms
wholly were added by others : fome loofe
papers he had, I do well know, but they
were nothing fo well methodifed, but ra-
ther papers intended after for the prefs,
or as it were a Memorial or Diary, than
fuch a well couched piece, and to fo little
purppfe. But it is anfwered by the
learned Milton. He was feldom in the
times of war feen to be forrowful for
the flaughter of his people or foldiers,
or indeed any thing elfe : whether by na-
ture or cuftom his heart was hardened,
I leave for others to judge. When un-
fortunately the Parliament had loft fome
of their men in the weft, at Marlborough,
and the Devizes, and they brought in 3
miferable
1 83 On the Life and Death
miferable condition, without hofeorfhoes,
or fcarce cloaths, into Oxford as a tri-
umph, he was content to be a fpeclator
of their calamities, but gave neither order
for their relief, or commands for eafe of
their fufferings ; nay, it was noted by fome
there prefent, he rejoiced in their fad af-
fliction. So afterwards, when Hambden
was wounded, or near that time in Buck-
inghamfhire, it happened a very valiant
foldier of the Parliament's fide to be
taken, fhipt ftark naked, his body being
Ihot in many places, and his fhoulder
broke : this poor foul in this condition
and pickle, was fet on a poor lean jade,
and brought as a triumph before the
King, where he ftood accompanied with
many Nobles. It would have pitied any
one's heart, to have heard how this poor
man was reviled and upbraided by lewd
people, even as he paffed clofe by the
King's prefence ; who neither pitied the
man, rebuked the unruly people, or gave
order for cure of his wounds : but God
cured the foldier inftantly, for he died
ere he was forty paces from the King's
prefence ; and notwithstanding the mifery
of the man, and fharpnefs of his wounds,
yet was the greatnefs of his fpirit and
courage fo undaunted, that he rode very
upright upon the poor jade, nothing
daunted either at his own prefent con-
dition,
of King CHARLES I. 189
dition, or prefence of the King. It was
obferved, that a lewd woman, as he pafled
by, calling him Rebel, he only looked
fternly at her, and faid, ' You whore/
Some Nobles feeing the hard-hearfednefs
of the King upon this fad accident, and
how little he valued thofe who either
fought for or againft him, upon this meer
occafion deferted him, and came for Lon-
don, &c.
Even the looks and geftures of Princes
are obferved, you may fee, and feveral
either good or ill conftruftions grounded
thereon. He was obferved in his diet to
feed heartily, and would drink wines at
meals freely, but not in excels. He was
rather violent than moderate in exer-
cifes : when he walked on foot, he rather
trotted than paced, he went fo faft. He
was nothing at all given to luxury, was
extream fober both in his food and ap-
parel ; in the latter whereof he might
rather be faid to go cleanly and neat,
then gaudy or riotoufly ; and as to the
former, he rather loved fober, full and
fubftantial difhes, than kickfhaws, which
the extravagant Nobles feed for their
wantonnefs fake; though many times, ere
they are fatisfied with curiofities in diet,
their eftates lie pawned for them. In the
general he was not vicious -
y and yet who
ever lhall fay he was virtuous, extreamly
errs.
tg6 On the Life and Death
errs. He was a medley betwixt virtue
and vice. He was magnificent in fome
meafure, and was the only caufe of the
building that miracle of fhips called the
Royal Sovereign : and when fome of his
Nobles acquainted him with the vaft
charge thereof, he replied, '
Why fhould
* not he be admitted to build that (hip
* for his own pleafure, and which might
* be upon occafion ufeful for fervice of
* the kingdoms, as well as fome Nobles
* prodigally fpent their patrimony in rio^
* tous and ungodly courfes, nothing either
* for their credits or reputations, or any
* way beneficial to the kingdom ?' It was
wifely faid of him at that time, * Every
€
man had his proper vanity, and that was
c
his, if the people accounted it fo.' He
was ill thought of by many, efpecially the
Puritans then fo called, for fufFering the
chapel at Somerfet-Houfe to be built
for the Queen, where mafs was pub-
lickly faid. Yet was he no Papift, or fa-
voured any of their tenets ; nor do I re-
member any fuch thing was ever objefted
againft him. Myfelf was once there to
gaze, whilft the prieft was at high mafs
:
the fexton and others thruft me out very
uncivilly, for wr
hich I protefted never to
come there again.
The aftions of Kings and Princes are
lookt upon with many eyes, whereof fome
ever
of King CHARLES t igi
ever prove either fquint or purblind. So
long as we live in this world, our con-
veriation cannot be with faints, but with
the fons of Adam, who ever fmell of
fome corruptions. Many alfo have blam-
ed him for writing unto the Pope when
he was in Spain : others think ill of him
for the many reprieves he gave unto femi-
nary priefts -> and Mr. Pryn fweats to
purpofe in aggravating his offenc^ there-
by. Why he might not as well in a civil
way write unto the Pope, as write and
fend his Ambaffador to the great Turk,
I know not : and for his mercy to thofe
priefts, who had not occafioned rebellion
in his dominions, truly charity bids me
to make rather a good than ill conftruc-
tion. And were not the common law of
this nation more in force than that canon
of fcripture, thofe things could not be
juftified, putting men to death for reli-
gion, or taking orders beyond fea, &c.
He was ambitious, and difdained in his
youth to match with any of the Englifti
ladies ; and therefore, upon hopes of a
marriage with the prefent Kine of Spain's
fifter, Monday the 27th of Feb. 1622.
he fet forward for Spain, went firft into
France, and from thence with his high
thoughts pafled the mountains. Neither
had he fuccefs in the marriage defired, or
did he get honour by that journey, al-
though
192 On the Life and Death
though moft magnificently entertained in
Spain. Some private difgufts happened
there and in that voyage, infomuch as he
never, after his return into England,
much cared for the Spaniard; which he
made publickly known in feveral years of
his reign. He was accompanied to Spain
with the Duke of Buckingham, one
whom formerly he extreamly hated, but
after i- at journey as extreamly fancied,
being his only great favourite. People
generally were nothing fatisfied with that
his journey undertaken fo rafhly; yet
many fober men judged very well of the
marriage itfelf, and thefe did publickly
aver, the Spaniard was rich, and a brave
man, would not be troublefome unto us
with unneceilary vifits, would ever bring
gold in his pockets ; was a people, with
whom the Englifh merchants had a great
and rich trade, and with whofe natural
conditions the Englilh did pretty well
fympathife ; and for the Infanta's ftrict-
nets in the Roman religion, there was by
many prudent men very little question
made, that it would produce any ill to
this nation, which now had been Prote-
ftant above fixty years : and they did alio
confider that the Prince was very furely
grounded in his own Proteftant faith, and
that the common law would well provide
for the multiplicity of priefts, who might
prefume
of King CHARLES L 193
prefume to come upon her account. The
27th of March, being Sunday 1625, King
Jamefc died. All that whole year a moft
furious plague affli&ed the city of Lon-
don, there dying above fifty thoufand
people. Amongft thofe, whofe misfor-
tune it was to abide in the city, during
that peftilent contagion, myfelf was one,
and therein beheld God's great mercy
unto me, being nothing at any time
vifited, though my converfation was daily
with the infededi Arid I do well re-
member this accident, that going in July
1625, about half an hour after fix in the
morning, to St, Antholine's Church, I
met only three perfons in the way* and
no more, from my houfe over againft
Strand-bridge, till I came there ; fo few
people were then alive, and the ftreets
ib unfrequented.
In June 1625, Mary, daughter of
Henry the Fourth, King of France, came
over, and was married to the King the
fame month. Several conftruftions were
made upon this marriage with France,
and many difputations in private were
had, whether fhe or the Infanta might
have been better for this nation. How-
ever the Parliament, in regard of the
ficknefs, was tranflated to Oxford, Au-
guft 1, 1625, anc* I2th °f the fame
diflblved. There are two main reafons
O given
194 0N the Life and Death
given for its dilfolution : one was, be-
caufe the Duke of Buckingham his own
favourite, fhould not be queftioned con-
cerning King James's death; and the
fecond was, his Majefty made feveral
propofitions unto the people, which they
would not confent unto. That King
James was really arid abfolutely poifoned
"by a plaifter, applied by Buckingham's
mother unto King James's ftomach, was
evidently proved before a Committee.
But whether Buckingham himfelf, or the
late King, was guilty either in the know-
ledge of, or application of the plaifter,
I could never learn. Many feared the
King did know of it, and they gave this
reafon ; becaufe, when the Parliament did
order to queftion Buckingham for it, and
had prepared their charge or articles, to
prefent againft him in the Houfe of
Lords, and to accufe him thereof, his
Majefty, contrary to all expectation, and
as an affront of both Houfes, and in the
Upper Houfe, when the articles came
up, gave Buckingham his hand to kifs,
carried him away with him, &c. This
aftion loft him the prefent Parliament's
affections. Even the moft fober of his
friends held him very much jverfeen to
deny a Parliament juftice in any matter
whatfoever; but in matter of poifon,
and the party poifoned being his father,
in
op King CHARLES L 195
in that to prohibit a due courfe, or a legal
proceeding againft the party fufpected, it
was to deny juftice with a refra&ory
hand. But at that time he was lufty
and young, and in his infancy of con-
vening Parliaments, thought to make him*
felf fure ever after, or to mafter the
Commons of England. There is no pen*
how able foever, can take off the blemifh
that will ever hang on him, for falling
out with his Parliament, becaufe they
queftioned, how and by what means his
father came to his death.
The fecond of February 1625, he was
crowned at Weftminfter. William Laud
altered the old coronation oath, and fram-
ed another new. And in March follow-
ing was a Parliament again fummoned,
and therein Montague queftioned for Po-
piili and Arminian tenets ; and Bucking-
ham was again alfo put to it by the Com-
mons. In time of this Parliament he fent
for the Bifhops, and blamed their back-
wardnefs, for that they did not inform
him, how he might promote the caufe
of the church. Indeed, he did well
know what fawning Jacks moft of them
were, and how eafily he might with hope?
of profit win them to his fide : they made
up a good part of the Houfe of Lords in
number. Here,again the Houfes of Par-
liament were troubled with Buckingham
O a and'
196 On the Life and Death
and Briftol, who was the vvifer man of
the two, but had leaft friends. Thefe
framed bills, and accufed each other of
freafon. At that time moft men pitied
Briftol, and thought him ill rewarded for
all his fervice in Spain ; for it was con-
ceived he acted not but according to
commiffion. In this Parliament he com-
mitted Sir Dudley Diggs, and Sir John
Elliot, Members of the Houfe of Com-
mons, becaufe they moft rigoroufly had
managed an accufation againft Bucking-
ham : An high affront it was to the Par-
liament, and a great breach of privilege
to commit a Member of that Houfe,
v/ithout the Houfe's confent : that matter
was much refented and very ill taken. By
thofe and other his high mifcarriages unto
both Houfes, they began to miftruft him ;
many gave fad conjectures of his actions,
and thought that in the end he would
either have or lofe all. June 15, 1626,
he diffolves the Parliament, only becaufe
they (hould not profecute Buckingham.
An argument of found affection unto his
favourite, to hazard the love of millions
only for him ; but a deep imprudence and
high overfight, to flight a whole nation
for love only of one man, and he but of
yefterday ; or a new creature, of but his fa-
ther's ftamping, and his own continuing.
It was in Auguft this year, that Tilly
overthrew his uncle the King of Den-
mark
of King CHARLES I. 197
mark in a pitcht field. How the King
carried the bufinefs witli his uncle, or
what treafure he promifed to fupply him
with, and did not perform, I know not.
Sure I am, the old King, after this fight,
could never endure our King, but Would
fwear, he endeavoured what in him lay to
make him lofe his kingdom. This I had
from the mouth of Dr. M. who heard the
King of Denmark fpeak what I write.
In Anno 1627, he fet forth men and
fhips to the Ifle of Rhe in France, under
the conduct of Buckingham. We loft our
beft men in that fcurvy defign, who were
no better than butchered by the French,
through the indifcretion of fome that had
principal command therein. But give
me leave, before I proceed farther, to re-
late what I had from the mouth of an
eminent Colonel, employed in that fuc-
cefslefs expedition, and one of the Coun-
cil of War, and a fworn enemy to the
Duke. Buckingham I well know was
extremely blamed about the lofs of our
men, the day of their retreat unto the
fhips. The matter was thus carried
:
The night before the retreat, the Duke
called a Council of War, and there fhewed
them the neceffity of their retreat the
next day, and th^t himfelf in martial
difcipline being wholly unexperienced, he
left the managing of the next day's action
O j to
198 On the Life and Death
to the ordering of the Council of War,
offering the fervice of his own perfon unto
any hazard whatever as far as any private
foldier. The Council committed the ma-
nagement of their retreat, by a free con-
fent, unto old Sir William Courtney, a
heavy dull covetous old man, who hav-
ing been twenty or thirty years a private
Captain in Holland, was, by Sir John
Burrows's means, made Colonel in that
expedition. And Burrows being now
dead, and Courtney the oldeft Colonel, it
was referred unto him how with fafety
to bring off our men. But he, either
through want of judgment, or forgetful-
nefs, having not fufhciently provided for
iecurity of our rear, our men were moft
unfortunately many of them cut in pieces :
and had not Sir Pierce Crofby with eight
hundred Irifh made good the retreat, all
our men had been loft. Courtney him-
felf fell injo a falt-pan in the defeat, and
was faved by means of his man Anthony's
crying, < O f^ve my Captain :'
but the
poor fellow loft his own life, and faved
his mafter's.
A bullet by chance, during their ftay
in that ifland, was fhot at the faid Court-
ney; and he having a piece of gold of
twenty one fhillings price in his fob, the
bullet light there, bent the gold, and fa
he was preserved, Courtney, at his re-<
turn*
of King CHARLES I. 199
turn, fhewed me the gold, and told me
the ftory. The King hearing of our
lofs at the Ifle of Rhe, and landing of
the Duke, inftead of being angry at the
lofs of fo many gallant men, or calling
him to account, lent to comfort the Duke,
deliring that he fhould not be troubled at
the lofs, for the chance of war was
And now we are fpeaking of Rochelle,
let me acquaint the world, that his Ma-
jefty was the fole caufe of its loling, for
he lent the King of France eight or ten
of his own navy, by which means the
Rochellers fhips were funk and deftroyed,
who before were ever able to relieve them-
felves with their own fhips, againit all
oppofition the Kings of France could
make. And that it may appear, he wil-
lingly lent thefe ihips unto the French,
and was not forced unto it by Buck-
ingham, as many have affirmed, I will
relate this pailage, perhaps not vulgarly
known. Sir John Pennington, being
Vice-Admiral, had commiffion to carry
eight or more royal fhips into France,
When he arrived there, the French ac-
quainted him the Ihips were to ferve the
French King againft the Rochellers, and
if that he the laid Sir John would ferve
in that employment, he fhould be ho-
nourably rewarded. But this gallant man
O 4 being
too On the Life and DeatHk
being truly Englifh, fcorned the proffer,
and utterly refufed the employment, and
ere he would refign the fhips unto the
French, came privately hin^felf unto the
King, and informed the King of the
French intentions againft Rochelle. But
the King faid only thus much :
* Pen-
i nington, go and deliver your fhips, and
' leave them in France and then gave
him 3. particular or private warrant un-
der his own h^nd for his difcharge, &c,
He had much ado to get his fhips again
from the French, and then was enforced
to fend Sir John Pennington amongft
the French, who feifed above a hundred
French fhips, and kept them until ours were
delivered. One thing is obfervable, that
we had only two failors affifted againft
Rochelle in our fhips, and no more,
This I rdate in honour of the feamen.
The deftru&ion of Rochelle is wholly
laid upon our King's fcore, as well and
jjuftjy it may he, to his eternal difhonour
and blemifh ; for had he not furnifhed
the French with fhips, Rochelle could not
have been taken as it was. And verily I
believe, the fad groans and miferies of thofe
poor Proteftants poured out unto Al-
mighty God in their height of calamities
againft our King, were extreme inftru T
mental in haftening down the anger of
Gqd againft the late King. However,
of King CHARLES I. 201
this aftion of his loft him the love of
the Proteftant Princes in all parts of the
world, and his own fubje&s could after
that a&ion never well brook him, but
daily were alienated in their affe£i:on
from him, fuppofing him either not well
grounded in the Proteftant Faith, or elfe
a meer ftate-juggler and no other. I know
fome have accufed Buckingham to be in-
ftrumental about the lending thofe fhips :
'tis poffible he was. However, in March
1627, a Parliament was fummoned again,
Buckingham articled againft, and in Junq
prorogued until October ; after in March
diffolved, becaufe William Laud was re-
monftrated againft by the Commons, his
ruin laboured. There were alfo articles
exhibited againft Buckingham in the Par-
liament, but the latter of the two, vma
Buckingham was ftabbed the 23d of
Auguft 1628, he being ready to go unto
fea for relief of Rochelie, then befieged.
Many complained of the King in this his
various aftion about Rochelie, viz. in firft
aiding the French to deftroy the P^ochel-
lers fhips, then to take pajt with them
againft the King pf France; but to no
purpofe. Some therefore compared him
to a black witch, whom they lay can be-
witch and hurt cattle, but hath no ab lity
to cure them again. It was an a6t of
great inconftancy, and much diflionour
to
202 On the Life and Death
to himfelf and whole nation, though the
nation had no hand in it. When firft
the news was brought unto the King of
Buckingham's death, he was at a fermon,
or in a church, or at fervice. He did not
feem much troubled at the news, but
ftayed out the fermon with much pati-
ence, only gave Maxwell prefent direc-
tions to feize the Duke's cabinet, where-
in his letters and private inftruftions were.
All men generally, except a few court
parafites, were glad of Buckingham's
death : yet nothing was bettered in the
court or commonwealth after his death
;
which moved many to affirm, that all the
mifgovernments in the realm proceeded
not from Buckingham's ill advice, but
moft from the corrupt and depraved na-
ture of the King's own hafte. Sith I
am upon the death of Buckingham, I
fhall relate a true ftory of his being ad-
monifhed often of the manner of his death
he fhould die, is this manner.
An aged gentleman, one Parker, as I
remember, having formerly belonged un-
to the Duke, or of great acquaintance
with the Duke's father, and now retired,
had a daemon appeared feveral times unto
him, in the fliape or image of Sir George
Villiers the Duke's Father. This daemon
walked many times in Parker's bed cham-
ber, without any a£tiou of terror, noife,
op King CHARLES I. 203
hurt, or fpeech but at laft one night
broke out into thefe words :
* Mr. Parker,
* I know you loved me formerly, and my
\ fon George at this time very well : I
« would have you go from me, you know
* me very well to be his father, old Sir
\
George Villiers of Leicefterfhire, and
\ from me acquaint him with thefe and
* thefe particulars, &c. and that he above
* all refrain the counfel and company of
* fuch and fuch/ whom he then nominated,
< or elfe he will come to deftruction, and
* that fuddenly.' Parker did partly,
though a very difcreet man, imagine he
himfelf was in a dream all this time,
and being unwilling to proceed upon no
better grounds, forbare addrefling himfelf
to the Duke ; for he conceived, if he fhould
acquaint the Duke with the words of his
father, and the manner of his appear-*
ance unto him, (fuch apparitions being
not ufual) that he fhould be laughed at,
and thought to dote, being he was aged,
gome few nights pafTed without further
trouble to the old man. But not very
many nights after, old Sir George Villiers
appeared again, walked quick and furi-
oully in the room, feemed angry with
Mr. Parker, and at laft faid, ' Mr. Parker,
1 I thought you had been my friend fo
< much, and loved my fon George fq
5 well* that you would have acquainted
f
him
204 THE Life and Death
* him with what I defired, but yet I
« know that you have not done it. By
* all the friendfliip that ever was betwixt
i you and me, and the great refpeft you
1
bear my fon, I defire you to deliver what
* I formerly commanded you unto my
f
fon.' The old man, feeing himfelf thus
folicited in this manner, promifed the dae-
mon he would; but firft argued it thus :
That the Duke was not eafy to be fpoke
withal, and that he would account him
a vain man to come with fuch a meffage
from the dead ; nor did he conceive the
Duke would give any credit unto him.
Whereunto the daemon thus anfwered;
' If he will not believe you have this dif-
c
courfe from me, tell him of fuch a
* fecret,' and named it,
1
which he knows
c
none in the world ever knew but my-
* felf and he/ Mr. Parker being now
well fatisfied, that he was not afleep, or
that the apparition was a vain delufion,
took a fit opportunity therefore, and feri-
oully acquainted the Puke with his fa-
ther's words, and the manner of his ap-
parition. The Duke heartily laughed at
the relation, which put old Parker to a
ftand : but at laft he afiumed courage,
and told the Duke, that he acquainted
his father's ghoft with what he now found
to be true, viz. fcorn and derifion :
* But
f
my Lord/ faith he, * your father bad
1
m
of King CHARLES I. 205
%
me acquaint you by this token, and he
* faid it was fuch as none in the world
* but your two felves did yet know/
Hereat the Duke was amazed and much
aftonifhed ; but took no warning or no-
tice thereof, keeping the fame company
ftill, advifing with fuch counfellors, and
performing fuch aftions, as his father by
Parker countermanded. Shortly after,
old Sir George Villiers, in a very quiet
but forrowful pofture, appears again un-
to Mr. Parker and faid, * Mr. Parker, I
* know you delivered my words unto
5 George my fon ; I thank you for fo
1
doing : but he flighted them ; and now
4
I only requeft this more at your hands,
* that once again you repair unto my fon,
* and tell him, if he will not amend, and
4
follow the counfel I have given him,
* this knife or dagger,' and with that he
pulled a knife or dagger from under
his gown, * fhall end him ; and do you
* Mr. Parker fet your houfe in order, for
f you fhall die at fuch a time/ Mr. Par-
ker once more engaged, though very un-
willingly, to acquaint the Duke with
this laft meflage, and fo did ^ but the
Duke defired him to trouble him no fur-
ther with fuch mefiages and dreams : told
him, he perceived he was now an old
man, and doted. And within a month
after meeting Mr. Parker on Lambeth-
Bridge,
2o6 On the Life and Death
Bridge, « Now, Mr. Parker, v/hat fay yotl
1
of your dream ?' Who only returned,
* Sir, I wifh it may never have fuccefs/
&c. But within fix weeks after, he was
ftabbed with a knife, according to his
father's admonition before-hand -
y and Mr.
Parker died foon after he had feen the
dream or vifion performed.
The 2.9th of May, 1630, being Satur-
day, near unto one in the afternoon, the
preient King of Scotland was born. The
next day the King came to Pauls-Crofs;
to give God thanks for the birth of his
fon, where were prefented unto him thefe
verfes
:
Rex ubi Paulinias accefllt gratus ad aras,
Immicuit medio lucida ftefla polo.
Die divina mihi traclans aenigmata coeli,
Haee oriens nobis, quid fibi ftella velit ?
Magnus in occiduo princeps modo nafcitur orbe^
Moxque fub eclipfi regna orientis erunt.
About May, 1633, he went into Scot-
land, and was crowned there the 18th of
June, 0 in 7
0
D in 7
0
. r. In July
he had a dangerous paflage from Brunt-
Ifland, and hardly efcaped drowning.
Some of his houfhold-ftuff or plate was
loft.
In 1634, he was infinitely troubled with
faftion in his court, which much difpleaf*
ed him; but by little and little he put
all things in order again. Then alfo he
levied
of King CHARLES R 207
levied a general great tax upon the whole
kingdom, vulgarly called Ship-money,
becaufe it was pretended, it was for
maintenance of the navy : and truly much
of it was that way expended, and the
failors well paid their wages ; which oc-
cafioned for two years together a good
fleet of royal fhips to be fet forth, much
for the honour of the nation.
This fhip-money was generally miflik-
ed, being a mere innovation, and a cleanly
trick to poll the fubjecls, and cheat them
into an annual payment. Myfelf was
then a collector for it in the place I lived
in. I remember my proportion was twen-
ty two fhillings, and no more. If we
compare the times then, and the prefait
in which I now live, you fhall fee great
difference even in afFeffinents, the necef-
fity of maintaining our armies requiring
it : for now my annual payments to the
foldiery are very near or more than twenty
pounds, my eftate being no way greater
than formerly. Againft this Ihip-money
many gallant men oppofed, and at laft in
Parliament it was voted down.
In July 1637, viz. 23d day, there
was great difturbance in Edinburgh, about
a new Service-Book endeavoured to be
obtruded on the Scots by the King and
Canterbury. I have heard, an old wo-
man begun the quarrel by calling her
ftool
2o3 On the Life And D£ath
ftool at the prieft, when he read thfc
Service-Book. Many very modeft divines
exceedingly blame both the King and
Canterbury far that bdok ; it admitted
unto the people, as I remember, the
Communion but in one kind. However,
by the prudence of feme grave men, be-
ing then Privy-Counfellors in Scotland,
matters were Rubbered over all that win-
ter in Scotland ; but in May, or April*
new tumults arofe, and truly I may almoft
fay, that that corrupt Common-Prayer-^
Book was the fole and whole occafion of
all the miferies and wars that fince that
time have happened in both nations.
Had his Majefty firft endeavoured the
impofition of that lame book upon ths
Englifh, moft men did believe we had
fwallowed it, and then the Scots muft
have done it afterwards ; for the clergy
at that time generally were fuch idle
and lazy lubbers, and fo pampered with
court preferment, and places temporal in
every lhire of England, and fuch flat-
tering fycophants, that doubtlefs the
great hand of God was in it, that thofe
rude Scots firft broke the ice, and taught
us the way to expel an infulting prieft-
hood, and to refift the King ; he endea-
vouring by unwarrantable means to in-
trude things contrary to the divine law of
Almighty God upon our confeiences.
of King CHARLES I. 2Q9
In Anno 1638, the Queen- mother of
France, and mother unto the Englifh
Queen, widow of Henry the fourth,
King of France, landed in England, and
came unto London the 31ft of October.
She was very meanly accompanied, and
few of quality attending her. The King
moft humanely and generoufly receives and
entertains her, though all men were ex-
tremely againft it 5 for it was obferved,
that wherever, or unto what country
this miferable old Queen came, there fol-
lowed immediately after her either the
plague, war, famine, or one misfortune
or other. Strange it is unto me, how fhe
could be fo fatal to any land fhe entred
into* True it is, and I do very well
know> that fome people born under an
unfortunate conftellation of heaven (with-
out this, that they live above nature, and
live wholly in the fpirit) are fo extreme
unfuccefsful in every thing they under-
take, that let them ufe the greateft in-
duftry they can to be rich* all will not
amount to obtain a poor living, though
they are affifted not only with a good
ftock of money to begin their profefhon
with, but have alfo many very profitable
and affifting friends, and means for their
better encouragement and furtherance.
It is very poUible, that fuch like ill for-
2 tune from her infancy might attend this
P ~ old
210 On the Life and Death
old Queen, as to be thought an unlucky
prefage of what mifchief prefently fol-
lowed her in thofe countries flie refided
in.
in November, proclamation was made
to diffolve the great affembly in Scotland,
but to little purpofe ; for the Scots have
this privilege belonging unto them, that
where, and when they pleafe, to obey no
edicts or commands of their Kings, ex-
cept thofe edifts fancy their own humours.
This proclamation was laughed at, and
flighted by the Scots, who made it appear
they were in good earneft, and began to
raife an army for their own defence, by
no means enduring the half Popifti Com-
mon-Prayer-Book. This raifing of an
army by the Scots, in oppofition of the
Common-Prayer- Book, made our pre-
lates prick up their ears, and the lazy
bifhops moft of all, who convened, and
raifed amongft their own Levitical Tribe
great fums of money towards the main-
tenance* of an army againft the Scots,
whom they now hated worfe than Turks.
Several particular men are fummoned to
appear at court, are enforced to lend vaft
fums of money towards the maintenance
of an army. I have heard fome affirm,
the King had in his coffers at that time
above fix hundred thoufand pounds : No
great
of King CHARLES I. 2x1
great fum for fo provident a prince, and
fuch large incomes as he had.
In or about the 27th of March. 1639,
the King fet forward towards Scotland.
His army followed immediately : the Earl
of Arundel being made general, a man
of great nobility, courage, and refolu-
tion, and one whofe anceftors had been
generals feveral times againft the Scots
with excellent fuccefs. There attended
the King in this expedition moft of the
nobility of this nation, but with great
unwillingnefs ; for the Englifh and Scots
having now lived like brethren, or na-
tives, or people of one nation, one a-
mongft another for almoft forty years>
and having intermarried one with ano-
ther, both the nobility or gentry, and
others, they thought it a very ftrange
thing, and not lawful of convenient, that
this nation fhould now take up arms,
and engage againft the Scots, only to
fatisfy the infatiable luft of a few domi-
neering priefts, and half popifh biihops
;
as alfo of an obftinate King, wholly led
by the nofe by thefe fnaffiing Priefts.
The common foldier was nothing well
pleafed, and marched moft unwillingly
upon this fervice. At laft both armies,
for many days, accofted each other ; yet
I never heard of fo much as one loufe
killed by either army; the Scots being
P 2 very
212 On the Life and Death
very tender of provoking the Englifh, and
they as willing to give no offence unto
the Scots. In June of that year a peace
was concluded betwixt both nations, the
Englilh nobility much defiling and fur-
thering it.
The King himfelf was mofl greedy
above all men of this union with the
Scots, as will appear by this enfuing
ftory. That day which was affigned for
certain of the Englifh nobility and Scot-
ifli to treat about thofe articles of agree-
ment or pacification the Scotifh nobility
were to produce ; the nobles of each na-
tion being fet, the Earl of Arundel be-
gan with much gravity to rebuke the
Scots for their unadvifednefs and rebel-
lion in raifing their army againft their
lawful King, and difturbing the peace of
both nations ; and yet he commended
the good nature of the King, who was,
notwithftanding their high provocations
and mifdemeanors, veiy inclinable to hear
their juft grievances, and to that purpofe
.had appointed himfelf, being General of
the Englifh army, and fbme other fele£t
nobles of his council, to meet them that
day, to treat with them, and to hear
their grievances, and what they could fay
for themfelves. This gallant man was
proceeding further in his fpeech, and ag-
gravating the Scots offences, when, lo,
z unex-
of King CHARLES I. 213
unexpectedly his Majefty entered the
room, called for the articles the Scots
defired to he ratified, or confented unto,
read them fcarce over, but took pen and
ink immediately, and figned them, with-
out ever advifing with any of his coun-
cil j which fo difpleafed the nobility of
the Engliflh nation, that the very next
day after figning the Scots articles, they
all halted- home to their own habitations
;
the King flaying behind, and for his
daily exercife, played at a fcurvy game
called pigeon-holes, or nine-pins. His
fellow gamefters alfo were equal to the
game, viz. lackeys, pages, and fuch
others, ejufdem generis. He again no
fooner came to London, but as I remem-
ber, caufed thpfe articles to be burned by
the common hangman; making himfelf
a? ridiculous in doing the one, as he was
reputed weak and fimple of judgment in
doing the other. But at that time moft
imputed the burning of the Scots articles,
unto the advices given him, and importu-
nity of the proud clergy and bifhops, vyho
humoured him in every itcjiing defire pf
hjs, even to his ruin.
There happened many memorable ac-
cidents in this year 1639 ; as firft, five
eclipfes of the fun and moon ; three of
Jhe fun, twp of the moon 5 none was
P 3 vifible
214 OiN THE Life and Death
vifible in our horizon, but the eclipfe of
the fun, which here began with us at
London the 2 2d of May, being Wednef-
day, at 3 hours and 52 minutes after
noon ; its middle was at 4 hours and 52
minutes, and its end at 46 minutes af-
ter 5. The digits eclipfed were 8. 51 mi-
nutes, 41 feconds; the whole time of its
continuance was 1 hour, and 54 mi-
nutes of time : The icheme of heaven
follows.
i
6V. V$
0/0'
'err
Eclipfe ofikeSUN
A. J2.P.M.
His Majefty was in the field againft
the Scots at the very time of the eclipfe
;
and fome that were there with him faid,
« They
of King CHARLES I. 215
* They felt not a more fharp cold day in
* all their lives than that was, the feafon
* of the year, and height of the fun con-
* fidered. Til meddle little with the prog-
noftick part of this eclipfe : yet I might
tell you, that Mercury, at the time of
the beginning of the eclipfe, reprefented
the clergy, and he was retrograde near to
conjunftion with Mars : one ill omen unto
the clergy. At the middle of the eclipfe
the moon was their fignificator, and fhe
eombuft and near the dragon's-tail, which
fignified much calamity unto the priefts,
This eclipfe fignified unto the King much
treachery and damage by his friends the
Scots ; the degree eciipfed was in the op-
pofite degree, almoft, of the fun in his
radix. As this eclipfe fhewed his troubles,
or their beginning; fo the moon's eclipfe
in 8 / in 1648, ended his afflictions,
&c.
The elFefts of this eclipfe had moft in-
fluence upon the King of Spain, it falling
even in the very degree of the feventh
houfe ; fo that upon the 1 ith or 12th of
October 1639, upon our Engiifh coaft,
and under our nofes, almoft in our har-
bour, the Hollander burnt and funk a
great navy of his, with many miferable
fouls in the navy, which were to be land-
ed in Flanders. I know fome have not
ftuck to affirm, that the eight thoufand
•
P 4 men,
216 On the Life and Death
men, tranfported iji the Spanifh navy,
were intended to have been landed here in
affiftance of hi5 Majefty : but it was a
meer untruth ; for who could have hin-
dered their landing in Kent, if his Ma-
jefty had commanded it ? Sure I am, the
Spaniard took it ill at his Majefty's hand,
that he fuffered them to perifh fo near
our harbour. They alfo took exception,
that his Majefty having promifed them
ammunition and powder, which it feems
they wanted, it came not at the place for
them, either by neglect or treachery of
our officers, until they were worfted. The
truth of the ftory of thefe eight thou-
fand Spaniards in the navy was thus.
There was a part of that country where
the Walloons inhabit, under the domi-
nion of the King of Spain, in the Ne-
therlands, which was taken notice to be
very difaffefted unto him : now upon
landing thefe amongft the Walloons, fo
many of that people were to have been
tranfported into Spain, &c. When his
Majefty firft heard of the Spanifh. and
Dutch fleet, and their near approach, he
faid to one {landing by him, * I would I
* were well rid of both navies/ To fpeak
the truth of him, either as he was virtuous
or vicious, is not to wrong him but in
every trivial mifcarriage to make him the
author
of King CHARLES I, 217
authol of it, I hold it barbarous, and not
the part of an honeft moral man.
In this memorable year, the Scots, by
aft amongft themfelves, thruft out all
bifhops ; who after came fneaking hither,
and had by Canterbury's means large and
plentiful exhibitions for their mainte-
nance. His Majefty took the expulfion
of the bifhops fo ill, as that he refolved
to check the faucinefs of the Scots, his
dear countrymen, and caufed their trade
with us to be prohibited, and their fhips
to be feifed ; which fo enraged the Scotifh
nation, that they were again in 1640 in
arms. The King fummons a Parliament
in April about the Scots, which Parlia-
ment would not give a farthing unto
him towards maintenance of his intended
army againfl: the Scots therefore in May
he diflblves the Parliament ; which gave
great difcontent all over the nation, and
great encouragement unto the Scots
:
whereupon their army was fuddenly rea-
dy, and their prefumption fuch, as with-
out invitation, they, the 17th of Auguft
1640, entred England. The King pre-
pares an army of Englifh to refift them :
but fuch was the general inclination even
of the common foldiers, and fo great an
odium or hatred was caft upon William
Laud, Archbifhop of Canterbury, that
nothing would ferve the common foldiers
but
2i8 On the Life and Death
but a Parliament ; not a man of the
Englifh would fight againft the Scots,
who were now crept into the ftrong town
of Newcaftle : our foldiers were mutinous,
the officers generally difaffected to the
fervice : in fome countries the new raifed
foldiers flew their officers, and would not
go. All thefe commotions moved the
King little to defift from the war, being
continually furthered by the bifhops and
clergy, who in their convocation gave a
large benevolence towards the mainte^
nance of thofe wars, and commanded
their tribes in their feveral pulpits to in^
veigh, and cry aloud againft the profane
Scots, and to perfuade the people to aflift
as willingly as againft Infidels or Turks.
His Majefty again commanded the nobili-
ty to attend him in this Northern expe-
dition, who leifurely, and rather unfea-*
fonably or unwillingly, than otherways,
attended him at York.
All men knew this war was promoted
by the clergy, whom the nobility began
to difdain and fcorn, and the gentry and
yeomanry of England extreamly to hate
;
for at this prelent time the high com-
miffion-court, and other bawdy courts,
did moft horrible injuftice againft the
perfons and eftates of any gentleman,
who by misfortune came thither. There
was alio one Wrenn, bifhop of Norwich,
of King CHARLES I. 219
born in London, a fellow whofe father
fold babies and fuch pedlary ware in
Cheapfide. This fellow very peremptorily
one day, as he fat in Judicature in the
High Commiffion-Court, faid openly,
* He hoped to live to fee the time, when
6
a Mafter of Arts, or a minifter, Ihould
< be as good a man as any Jack gentle-
f man in England.' And verily the pride
of this faucy citizen's fon, hath been one
main £aufe of the ruin of the clergy.
Concerning this Wrenn, I know Canter-
bury preferred him, and brought him to
thofe Ecclefiaftical advancements in court
and church, which he enjoyed. I do alfo
know, and have heard it from fome who
waited on Canterbury in his chamber,
that he would oft fay, that the rafh ac-
tions and unwarrantable proceedings of
this Wrenn would undo the clergy ; but
in regard he had been the fole means of
his advancement, he could not well do
any aft prejudicial againft him, but it
would redound to the difhonour of him-
felf, and the clergy in general : alfo he
had many reluftancies in himfelf, for
preferring fo unworthy a fcornful fellow,
who proved the fcandal and fcorn of
churchmen, and an extraordinary plague
to the whole nation. For upon his
plaguing and punifhing many godly
clothiers in the countries of Norfolk and
Suffolk,
220 On the Life; and Death
Suffolk, they were forced to leave their
native country, and betake themfelves and
families into the United Provinces, where
they have taught the Dutch the art and
manfa£ture of cloathing, even to the ut-
ter impoverifhment of this whole nation,
&c. and yet this wretched Wrenn lives,
&c.
As I remember, near upon, or in this
year 1639, or 1640, the citizens of Lon-
don were miferably abufed by a beggarly
Knight, one Sir Phillips of Ireland, who
exhibited his bill againft them, for cer-
tain mifdemeanors pretended to be com-
mitted by fome of their fub-officers in
Ireland, about the parts of London-Derry.
True it is, the citizens of London very
gallantly, about the coming in of King
James, or not long after, fent colonies of
their own in great numbers, and at their
own extreme great charges, to fettle a
civil plantation in the North of Ireland.
They had a large patent from King James,
and many privileges granted unto them
for their fo doing and planting. Above
thirty years they had quietly poflefled their
own lands there, had built many beauti-
ful market-towns, one or more city or
cities, many churches in the territories
afligned them. But near thefe years of
1639, or 1640, this Sir Phillips demand-
ing fome unreafonable things of the citi-
zens,
of King CHARLES L 221
Zens, and being denied them, he in ma-
lice exhibits his bill for mifdemeanors of
their officers, againfl: the Londoners in
the Star-chamber ; brought the caufe unto
a hearing; the court of Star-chamber fined
the Londoners deeply, adjudged their plan-
tations forfeited to the King, who as ea-
gerly and greedily fwallowed them for his
own. This very acl: in or near this exi-
gence of time, fo imbittered the fpirits of
the citizens, that although they were
fingularly invited for loan of monies, and
had as great plenty in their pofleffions as
ever, yet would not contribute any af-
fiftance or money againft the Scots, or
advance of his Majefty in this his Scotifh
expedition. And though I do not at-
tribute thefe cafualties and lolTes of the
cities, to be derived or caufed from the
eclipfe of 1639, although the eclipfe was
in Gemini, which fign is the afcendant
of London : yet certainly, that Eclipfe
did in a natural way threaten or portend
much damage unto them, and did mani-
feft the cafualties, but was not the caufe.
There was at laft a ceffation of arms
by confent of both parties, Scots and
Englifh. Some petty fcuffling there was
to no purpofe. The King, when he faw
no other means could be thought on for
to ferve his turn, and that the common
foldier unanimoufly refufed engaging with
the
£22 On the Life and Death
the Scots, by the conftant and earnefi
defire of the Englifh nobility, which at-
tended him, he with much unwillingnefs
at length was content to give fummons
for another Parliament to be convened
the third day of November 1640. But
you mull underftand in the mean while,
when the King faw he could no ways
engage the Englifh againft the Scots, he
had fent unto Ireland for the then pre-
fent Lord Deputy, the Earl of Strafford,
formerly Sir Thomas Wentworth, a York-
fhire gentleman by birth, and one who
had formerly been a great ftickler againft
him, until, poifoned with court-prefer-
ment, he turned Royalift, and fo was
made Lord Deputy of Ireland ; a man of
the rareft parts and deepeft judgment of
any Englifhman living ; I fay, he fent
for this Strafford to confult with him
about compofmg thefe emergent differ-
ences. Strafford advifes with Canterbury,
all to little purpofe ; for the Bifhop was
a very afs in any thing but church-mat-
ters ; the hand of providence now going
along with the Parliament and common-
wealth, who became mafters of all pub-
lick fpirited people, the King daily de-
clining. In April 1641, the Parliament
accufe Strafford for feveral mifdemeanors,
treafons, tyrannies, &c. againft the com-
monwealth, during his government in
Ireland.
of King CHARLES L 223
Ireland. The Parliament follow it fo
luftily, that notwithftanding Strafford
fpoke and defended himfelf as well as
any mortal man in the world could do,
yet. he was found guilty, had his fentence
to die, and did die. Thomas Earl of
Arundel being Lord High Steward, the
King figned the warrant for his death,
either by himfelf or Commiffioners. Thus
died Strafford, the wifeft politician this
nation ever bred.
All men accufe the King for his falfe-
nefs and cowardice unto this man, who
being fatisfied in his own confcience, that
Strafford was not guilty of treafon or
death, but only of mifdemeanors, yet
ligned a warrant, either under his own
hand, or by commiffioners. Some there
are who do fay, with the fame pen, and
at the fame time, he figned the warrant
againft Strafford, and alfo the Act for a
triennial or perpetual Parliament, which
Ihould not be diffolved without confent
of both Houfes. Many affirm, the Queen
procured him to do both thefe things
:
others impute it to Hamilton. It mat-
ters not who did it, or perfuaded him, it
was his ruin, &c.
The matter is not great, who invited
the Scots into England: fome thought
Pirn, Hambden, and feveral other gen-
tlemen were inftrumentaL It is very like
it
224 On the Life and Death
it was true, and that the King kneiv
as much, but could not remedy it. The
Parliament however in policy and judg-
ment gave the Scots a round fum of
money for their lofies, and ordered them
to depart this kingdom, which they did
;
fo that in Auguft 1641, the King went
into Scotland purpofely to pacify and com-
pofe the prefent threatening differences
there.
In the fame month of Auguft 1641, I
beheld the old Queen-Mother of France
departing from London, in company of
Thomas Earl of Arundel. A fad fpec-
tacle of mortality it was, and produced
tears from mine eyes, and many other
beholders, to fee an aged, lean, deCrepid,
poor Queen, ready for her grave* necef-
iitated to depart hence, having no place
of refidence in this world left her, but
where the courtefy of her hard fortune
affigned it. She had been the only ftately
and magnificent woman of Europe ; wife
to the greateft King ever lived in France,
mother unto one King and unto two
Queens. The King cared not much for
the Eal*l of Arundel, bdng he was of
a fevere and grave nature, could not en-
dure court-novelties or flatterers, was
potent in allies, &c. But there was one
thing or caufe mainly above the reft, and
that was, becaufe the Earl of Arundel
being
of King CHARLES I. 225
being Lord High Steward and Judge in
Strafford's trial, gave his voice that he
was guilty of treafon, &c. The Earl
alfo had but a few years before given the
King a touch of his own great heart, and
the King's unthankfulnefs unto him and
his family. The cafe was thus : A prieft
pretends the King had a right in a
reftory : the Earl challenged for his, and
had procured Canterbury for his friend
and fecond. The matter had many de-
bates : for Arundel wr
as no fool, but flood
ftoutly for his right. Canterbury was as
violent for the prieft, and had procured
the King to take cognizance, or hear the
matter. The King upon fome flight
evidence maintained it was his, viz. be-
longed to the Crown. The Earl feeing
the obftinatenefs of the King, and his
fiding with a petty prieft againft him, and
his proper right, out of the greatnefs of
his heart, faid, * Sir, this reftory was
* an appendant unto fuch or fuch a
* manor of mine, until my grandfather,
* unfortunately, loft both his life and
* feventeen Lordfhips more, for the love
* he bore to your grandmother/ This
was a fmart fpeech, and home to pur-
pofe: it fo aftonifhed the King, that he
replied pretty mildly, * My Lord, I would
* not have you to think that fo poor a
' thing as this reftory or thing in queftion
"
' (hall
226 On the Life And Death
* fhall ftand in competition betwixt my
* refpect unto you and your family, which
*
I know to be deferving,' &c. After
that time the Earl little liked the King's
aftions, and therefore took this opportune
occafion of going away with the Queen-
mother: and when one faid unto him,
his Majefty would mifs him ; *
It is an
* ill dog/ faid the Earl, ' that is not worth
* whittling and though he is a King, he
€
will find Arundel's affe&ion unto him
* would not have been inconfiderable/
&c. Some few years fince, this Earl died
at Padua, being the laft man of the
Englifh nation, that maintained the gra-
vity and port of the ancient nobility; a
great lover of antiquities, and of the
Englifh nation. He brought over the
new way of building with brick in the
city, greatly to the fafety of the city, and
prefervation of the wood of this nation.
He was a great patron of decayed gentry ;
and being Lord High Marfhal of Eng-
land, carried too ftrift an hand againft
the yeomanry and commonalty ; for which
he was nothing beloved, but rather hated
of them. However, the gentry and no-
bility owe much unto his memory.
In Oftober 1641, the Irifh unanimoufly
rebel and mafiacre the poor Englifh, who
were not able to relieve themfelves, as
matters at prefent were handled, wanting
able
of King CHARLES I. 227
able governors to direft them. And the
very truth is, the way which at firft was
tak£n to fupprefs the rebellion, did only
fupport it : for confidence being given to
fortie of the Irifh nobility, and many of
them furnifhed with arms, they furnifh
their own kindred, being native Irifh;
who were no fooner poffefTed of arms,
but they became errant traitors to the
Englifh. A great queftion will here arife,
whether the murder of the Englifh was
5
by confent or commiffion from the King
unto the Irifh ? Many have affirmed in
words and in print publickly, that he
fhould be guilty of fuch a villanous aft
;
which I cannot believe, in regard I could
never have any allured relation, what thofe
commiffions were the Irifh boafted of,
they being only the affirmations of the
Catholick Irifh, purpofely to win others
unto their party, and feducing many by
faying, they afted by the King's commif-
fions. Had this been true, it had been
more than equal unt) his affifting for
deftruftion of Rochelle ; but I may hope
better things, both as he was a Pro-
teftant, a Chriftian, aid a King. Yet
methink there is little fatisfaftion given
unto this in his late pretended book.
Two main things are objected againft the
King, which that book meddles not with,
or anfwers. Firft, why his Majefty was
Q^2 fo
%
228 On the Life and Death
fo tender-hearted 6f the Irifh, as not to
fuffer above forty proclamations to iflue
ont againft thofe rebels in Ireland, and
thofe alfo to no purpofe, or unoppor-
tunely, when too late. Befides, to fhew
his refpeft unto them, I know he obli-
terated with his own hands the word
Irifh rebels, and put in Irifh fubje&s, in
a manufcript difcourfe, writ by Sir Ed-
ward Walker, and prefented unto him,
which I have feen of the Irifh rebellion,
&c. Secondly, whereas the Parliament
were fending over cloaths, and other ne-
ceffaries, for the Englifh. foldiers in Ire-
land, the King feized them as they went,
armed and furnifhed the Englifh and Welfh
againft the Parliament. The reafons of
thefe are omitted by the penner of his Por-
traiture.
In November 1641, the Parliament
ftill fitting, the King comes for London,
is entertained by them in the greateft ftate
might be, and met on the way by fome
hundreds in gold chains ; and nothing is
now cried but '
Holanna, welcome home >
* your Majefty is welcome.' The Queen
perceiving a breach was likely to be be-
twixt the King and Parliament, thought
politickly to engage the city for him. He
gives the citizens good worJs, tells them,
he will give them their lands in Ireland
again, a promife he was never able to
perform,
of King CHARLES I, 229
perform, &c. As I remember at their
requeft, he alfo kept his Chriftmas at
Whitehall, intending otherways to have
kept it at Hampton-Court, and alfo knight-
ed fome of the Aldermen. At his return
from Scotland, he affirmed in a fpeech
lie made unto both Houfes, how he had
left that kingdom in as quiet and good
condition as eould be expe&ed. The
devil was in the crags of the Scots, if he
left them not contented, who gave them
whateyer they required, and figned what-
ever they defired or demanded, confirmed
as much as their large confeiences could
require.
But now in January 1641, began a
fea of misfortunes to fall upon us, and
overwhelm our long-continued happinefs,
by difagreement of the King and the two
Houfes of Parliament, and partly by the
daily coming to the Parliament Houfe of
many hundred citizens, fometimes in very
rude manner. True it is, the King dif-
liked thefe too frequent addreffes unto
both Houfes in fo tumultuous and un-
warrantable a manner : whereupon, fear-
ing the worft (as himfelf pretended) he
had a court of guard before Whitehall of
the trained-bands. He ha4 alfo many
diffolute gentlemen, and fome very civil,
that kept within Whitehall, with their
fwords by their fidgs, to be ready upon
Q^3 any
230 On the Life and Death
any fudden occafion. Verily, mens fears
now began to be great, and it was by
many perceived, the King began to fwell
with anger againft the proceedings of
Parliament, and to intend a war againft
them : fome fpeeches dropped from him
to that purpofe. It happened one day,
as fome of the ruder fort of citizens
came by Whitehall, one bufy citizen muft
needs cry, ' No Bifhops fome of the
gentlemen iflued out of Whitehall, either
to corre£t the faucinefs of the fool in
words, if they would ferve, elfe it feems
with blows : what palled on either fide
in words, none but themfelves knew;
the citizen being more tongue than fol-
dier, was wounded, and I have heard,
died of his wounds received at that time.
It hath been affirmed by very many, that in
or near unto that place where this fellow
was hurt and wounded, the late KING'S
head was cut off, the SCAFFOLD
(landing juft over that place.
Thofe people or citizens who ufed thus
to flock unto Weftminfter, were moft of
them men of mean or a middle quality
themfelves ; no Aldermen, Merchants, or
Common-Council Men, but fet on by
fome of better quality ; and yet moft of
them were either fuch as had publick
fpirits, or lived a more religious life than
the vulgar, and were ufually called Puri-
1 tans,
of King CHARLES I. 231
tans, and had fuffered under the tyranny
of the Bifhops : in the general they were
very honeft men, and well meaning.
Some particular fools, or others, per-
haps now and then got in amongft them,
greatly to the difadvantage of the more
fober. They were modeft in their appa-
rel, but not in language : they had the
hair of their heads, very few of them,
longer than their ears : whereupon it
came to pafs, that thofe who ufually with
their cries attended at Weftminfter, were,
by a nick name, called Roundheads. The
courtiers again wearing long hair and
locks, and always fworded, at laft were
called by thefe men Cavaliers : and fo after
that this broken language had been ufed a
while, all that adhered to the Parliament
were termed Roundheads ; all that took
part or appeared for his Majefty Cavaliers
;
few of the vulgar knowing the fenfe of
the word Cavalier. However, the pre-
fent hatred of the citizens were fuch un-
to gentlemen, efpecially courtiers, that
few durft come into the city ; or if they
did, they were fure to receive affronts,
and be abufed.
To fpeak freely and ingenuoufly, what
I then obferved of the city tumults, was
this. Firft, the fufferings of the citizens
who were any thing well devoted, had,
during all this King's reign, been fuch,
0^4 and
232 On the Life and Death
and fo great, being harrowed or abufed
continually, either with the High Com-
miflion Court, or the Star Chamber, that
as men in whofe breafts the fpirit of liber-
ty had fome place, they were even glad
to vent out their fighs and iufferings in
this rather tumultuous than civil man-
ner ; being affured, if ever this Parlia-
ment had been diflblved, they mult have
been racked, whipped, and ftripped by
the fnotty clergy, and other extravagant
courfes. And for any amendment which
they might expect from the King, they
too well knew his temper : that though
in a time of Parliament he often pro-
mifed to redrefs any grievances, yet the
beft friend he hath, cannot produce any
one aft of good for his fubjefts done
by him in the vacancy of a Parliament.
The lofers ufually have leave to fpeak,
and fo had the citizens.
All this Chriftmas 1641, there was no-
thing but private whifperings in Court,
and fecret councils held by the Queen,
and her party, with whom the King fat
in council very late many nights. What
was the particular refult of thofe clan-
deftine confutations, it will prefently ap -
pear.
January 4, 1641. By what finifler
council led, I know not, but the King
in perfon went into the then Lower
Houfe
of King CHARLES I. 233
Houfe of Parliament, where the Com-
mons r2t9 and for fome things he had
been informed of, demanded five of their
principal members, viz. Pimm, Hollis,
Hazlerigg, Hainbden, and Stroud. In
that book called his Portraiture, he af-
firms, he went to the Houfe of Com-
mons to demand juftice upon thofe five
members ; and faith, * He thought he
* had difcovered fome unlawful corre-
' fpondencies and engagements they had
* made to embroil his kingdoms.' He
confeffeth he miffed but little of pro-
curing fome writings, &c. to make his
thoughts good. So here is no evidence
againfl- thefe members, but his own
thoughts, as himfelf confeffeth. But
affuredly, had he demanded juftice of the
Houfe of Commons againfl them, and
proved his charge, he might have had
it ; but for himfelf to attach their bodies,
and be Judge alfo (as he intended) was
a matter moft unequal. And furely,
had it been in his power to have got
their bodies, he would have ferved thefe
members as he did Elliot, whom with-
out caufe he committed to the tower,
and never would either releafe him, or
fhew caufe of his commitment, till death.
All that time he had a guard with him
at the doors of the Houfe of Parliament,
confifting of many gentlemen with hal-
berts
_j4 On the Life and Death
berts and fvvords. Truly, I did not hear
there was any incivility offered by thofe
gentlemen then attending unto any mem-
ber of the Houfe, his Majefty having given
them ftridt commands to the contrary.
This rafh aftion of the King's loft him
his Crown : for as he was the firft of
Kings that ever, or fo imprudently, brake
the privileges by his entrance into the
Houfe of Commons aflcmbled in Parlia-
ment; fo by that unparalleled demand
of his, he utterly loft himfelf, and left
fcarce any poflibility of reconcilement ; he
not willing to truft them, nor they him,
who had fo often failed them. It was
my fortune that very day to dine in
Whitehall, and in that room where the
halberts, newly brought from the tower,
were lodged, for ufe of fuch as attended
the King to the Houfe of Commons.
Sir Peter Wich, ere we had fully dined,
came into the room I was in, and brake
open the chefts wherein the arms were,
which frighted us all that were there.
However, one of our company got out
of doors, and prefently informed fome
members, that the King was preparing
to come unto the Houfe $ elfe I believe
all thofe members, or fome of them, had
been taken in the Houfe. All that I
could do further was prefently to be
gone. But it happened alfo the fame
of King CHARLES L 235
day, that fqme of my neighbours were
at the court of guard at Whitehall, unto
whom I related the King's prefent defign,
and conjured them to defend the Parlia-
ment and members thereof, in whofe
well or ill doing confifted our happinefs
or misfortune : they promifed affiftance if
need were, and I believe would have
ftoutly flood to it for defence of the Par-
liament, or members thereof. The King
loft his reputation exceedingly by this
l}is improvident and unadvifed demand
:
yet notwithftanding this his failing, fo
wilful and obftinate he was in purfu-
ance of that prepofterous courfe he in-
tended, and fo defirous to compafs the
bodies of thefe five members, that the
next day he pofted and trotted into the
city to demand the members there. He
convened a meeting at Guildhall. The
Common Council afTembled : but mum
could he get there, for the word London-
Deny was then frefh in every man's
mouth.
But whereas the author of the King's
Portraiture complains, < That the info-
* lency of the tumults was fuch, that his
' Majefty's perfon was in danger in the
* ftreets.' This is a very untruth : for
notwithftanding his Majefty dined in the
city that day he required the five mem-
bers pf the citizens, yet he had no in-
civility
236 On the Life and Death
civility in the leaft meafure offered unto
his perfon ; only many cried out as he
paffed the ftreets, 1
Sir, let us have our
* juft liberties, we defire no more/ Un-
to which he feveral times anfvvered, '
They
' fhouid,' &c.
An honejft citizen, as I remember,
threw into his coach a new fermon, the
text whereof was, as I now remember,
' To thy tents, O Ifrael.' Indeed the citi-
zens (unto their everlafting honour be it
fpoken) did with much refolution pro^
te6l the five members : and many thou-
fands were willing to facrifice their lives
for defence of the Parliament, and the
feveral members thereof.
The tenth of January approached and
came : upon which day the five demanded
members were brought into the Houfe of
Cpmmons with as much triumph as
could be exprefied, feveral companies of
trained bands marchipg to the Parliament
to aftift if need were. There were upon
the River Thames I know not how many
barges full of failqrs, having fome guns
ready charged, if occafion were : and
thefe alfo came in multitudes to ferve
the Parliament. A word dropped out of
the King's mouth a little before, which
loft him the love of the feamen. Some
being in conference with his Majefty,
acquainted him, that he was loft in the
afte£lion
of King CHARLES L 237
affettion of the feamen, for they intended
to petition the houfe, &c. * I wonder/
quoth the King, ' how I have loft the
4
affe&ion of thole water-rats.' A word
fure that flipped out of his mouth un-
advifedly ; for all men muft and do know,
that the (hips of England, and our va-
liant failors, are the very ftrength of Eng-
land.
His Majefty finding nothing thrived
on his fide, and feeing the abundant af-
fection of the commonalty in general for
the Parliament, the aforefaid tenth of
January 1 64 1, went unto Hampton-Court,
and never after could by entreaty, or
otherwife, be drawn to come unto his Par-
liament, though they in moft humble wife,
and by many and feveral addrefles, ex-
ceedingly defired it. One misfortune fol-
lows another: for the 25th of February,
1641, the Queen went into Holland, and
afterwards the King into Yorfhire. There
was at this time a fufficient magazine
of arms in Hull, being the remainder
of thofe employed again ft the Scots. The
Parliament fent down a member of their
own, one Sir John Hotham, to take care
of them ; who undertook, and alfo did
maintain the town, and preferve the arms
therein for the Parliament. Although his
Majefty, in April 1642, came unto the
walls of the town to require them, yet
couid
23S On the Life and Death
could he neither procure arms, or admit-
tance into the town.
The Earl of Warwick, exceedingly be-
loved of the feamen, fecured the navy;
fo that in few days the Parliament had
ftore of arms for land foldiers, and plenty
of ftout fhips for their fea occafions. His
Majefty in the mean time being deftitute
both of the affe&ions of his people, and
means to fupply an army, which it was
perceived he intended fhortly to raife, re-
turned from viewing Hull unto York.
The Parliament having perfe£t intelli-
gence, and being allured he would raife
an army againft them, began to con-
fider of their prefent condition; whom
to make their General ; how to raife
men and money for their own, and
commonwealth's, defence. But one would
have bleffed himfelf to fee what running
and trotting away here was both of Lords
and Commons unto his Majefty. I do
aflure you a very thin houfe was left
:
of Lords who remained, Efiex the peo-
ple's darling was chief; a moft noble
foul, and generally well efteemed : he in
this exigency was by both houfes nomi-
nated and voted the Parliament's Gene-
ral. I do herein admire at the wonder-
ful providence of Almighty God, who
put it into the peoples hearts to make
this man General, this very Earl, this
of King CHARLES L 239
good man, who had fuffered beyond be-
lief, by the partial judgment of King
James ; who to fatisfy the letchery of a
iuftful Scot, took away Effex's wife (being
a lewd woman) for one Carr, alias Somer-
fetj fhe pretending EfTex was Frigidits in
Corfu, and old Jemmy believing it.
Had EfTex refufed to be General, our
eaufe in all likelihood had funk in the
beginning, we having 'never a Noble-
man at that time, either willing or ca-
pable of that honour and preferment:
indeed, fcarce any of them were fit to be
trufted. So that God raifed up EfTex
to be a fcourge for his fon, whofe father
had fo unjuftly abufed him. And for
the Countefs, fhe had abundance of for-
row ere fhe died, and felt the divine hand
of heaven againft her; for fhe was un-
capable of coition at leaft a dozen years
ere fhe died, having an impediment in
that very member fhe had fo much de-
lighted in and abufed : and this I had
from the mouth of one who faw her
when bowelled. For Somerfet himfelf,
he died a poor man, contemptible and
defpifed of every man ; and yet I never
heard any ill of that Scotchman, except
in this alone bufinefs concerning the Earl
of EfTex, and his wife. In this fummer
the citizens lifted themfelves plentifully
for
24° Ox T & E Lif£ and Death
for foldiers . Horfe and arms were provided,
and the Lord knows how many trea-
cherous knaves had command in this firft
expedition in the Parliament army : fo that
if God himfclf had not been on our fide,
we muft of necefnty have perifhed.
The youth of the City of London
made up the major part of Effex's in-
fantry. His horfes were good, but the
riders unlkilful : for they were taken up
as they came and lifted, or offered them-
felves unto the fervice. The truth is,
the Parliament were at that time glad to
fee any mens willingnefs and forwardnefs
unto their fervice ; therefore they pro-
mifed largely, and made fome pleafing
votes ; fo that the plate and monies of
the citizens came tumbling into Guild-
hall upon the publick faith.
His Majefty in the interim, and at
that time, was neceffitated for money
and arms extreamly, having no magazine
to command, but thofe of the northern
counties yea, into what other county
foever he came (and he traverfed many)
he was fo courteous, as he made fhift to
feize their arms, and carry them along
for his ufe, pretending for the fafety of
the people, and his perfon.
The King had lain moft part at York,
or rambled into fome other counties near
adjacent until Auguft, and done little to
any
of King CHARLES t $4t
amy piirpofe ; for the feverai counties were
generally nothing inclinable to his pur-
pofe : in moft whereof, and in every
county he came in, he rather received
petty affronts than fupport : yet at laft
he came to Nottingham, and there fef
up his STANDARD (with a full refo-
lution for war) the 2 2d of Auguft, 1642,
under this conftellation, having fome few
horfe with him; but in great expefta-
tion of more aid from the Welch, &C*
yvhom he thought moft doted on monarchy*
-dardfirftfetup
atNottingham
l6
6H^MmRM
adno
V
>x»v>
To. >
The heralds, or at leaft thofe who theti
Were with the King, Were ignorant how,
R and
242 On the Life and Death
and in what manner to fet up the Stan-
dard Royal : they therefore hung it out
in one of the turrets, or upper rooms
of Nottingham Caftle, within the Caflle
Wall. King Richard the Third fet up
his Standard there, &c. His Majefty dif-
liked his Standard was placed within the
caftle. He faid it was to be placed in an
open place, where all men that would
might freely come unto it, and not in a
prifon : they therefore carried it, at his
command, without the caftle, towards or
into the park there adjoining, into an
open place and eafy of accefs. When
they came to fix it in the ground, they
perceived it was a meer rock ftone, fo
that they with daggers and knives made
a fmall hole for the Standard to be put
in ; but all would not ferve ; men were
inforced for the prefent to fupport it with
the ftrength of their arms and bodies ;
which gave great occafion unto fome
gentlemen there prefent, to give a very fad
judgment on the King's fide, and to divine
long beforehand, that he would never do
any good by arms. I have alfo heard,
that in eight or ten days he had not thirty
attended the Standard, or lifted them-
felves.
All the remainder of his life after this
Auguft 22, 1642, was a meer labyrinth
of ibrrow, a continued and daily misfor-
2 tune,
of King CHARLES I.
243
tune, unto which it feems providence had
ordained him from the very entrance of
his reign. His wars are wrote by feve-
ral learned hands, unto whom I refer the
reader. I (hall only repeat a few more
things of him, and then conclude. Fa-
vourites he had three ; Buckingham ftabbed
to death; William Laud, and Thomas
Earl of Strafford, both beheaded. Bi-
fhops and Clergymen, whom he moll
favoured, and wholly advanced, and oc-
cafionally ruined, he lived to fee their
bifhopricks fold, the Bifhops themfelves
fcorned, and all the whole clergy of his
party and opinion quite undone.
The Englifh Noblemen he cared not
much for, but only to ferve his own turns
by them : yet fuch as had the unhappi-
hefs to adventure their lives and fortunes
for him, he lived to fee them and their
families ruined, only for his fake. Pity
it is many of them had not ferved a more
fortunate mafter, and one more grateful.
The Scots, his countreymen, on whom
he beftowed fo many favours, he lived to
fee them in arms againft himfelf ; to fell
him for more money than the Jews did
Chrift, and themfelves to be handfomely
routed, and fold for knaves and Haves.
They made their beft market of him at all
times, changing their affection with his
fortune.
R 2 The
.244 On the Life and Death
The old Prince of Orange he almoft
beggared, and yet to no purpofe, the
Parliament one time or other getting all
arms and ammunition which ever came
over unto him. It is confidently averred,
if the King had become ablolute here in
England, Orange had been King, &c.
The city of London, which he had fo
fore oppreffed and flighted, he lived to fee
thoufands of them in arms againft him
;
and they to thrive, and himfelf confume
unto nothing. The Parliament, which
he fo abhorred, and formerly fcorned, he
lived to know was fuperior unto him
;
and the fcorns and flights he had ufed
formerly to Elliot, and others, he faw
now returned upon himfelf in folio.
With Spain he had no perfeft corre-
fpondency, fmce his being there ; lefs after
he fuffered their fleet to perifh in his
havens ; leaft of all, after he received an
Ambaflador from Portugal ; the Spaniard
ever upbraiding him with falfhood, and
breach of promife. Indeed, the nativities
of both Kings were very contrary.
With France he had no good amity;
the Proteftants there abhorring his leger-
demain and treachery unto Rochelle ; the
Papifts as little loving or trufting him,
for fome hard meafure offered unto thofe
of their religion in England. He cun-
ningly
of King CHARLES I. 245
ningly would labour to pleafe all, but in
effe6t gave fatisfaftion to none.
Denmark could not endure him; fent
him little or no afliftance, if any at all
:
befides, the old King fufpefted another
matter; and made a query in his drink.
The Swede extremely complained of him
for nonperformance of fome fecret con-
tract betwixt them, and uttered high
words againft him.
The Proteftant PRINCES of Germany
loathed his very name, &c.
The Portugal King and he had little to
do ; yet in one of his own letters to the
Queen, though he acknowledges the Por-
tugal's courtefy unto him, yet faith, that he
would give him an anfwer unto a thing of
concernment that fhould fignify nothing.
The Hollanders being only courteous
for their own ends, and as far as his money
would extend, furnifhed him with arms at
fuch rates as a Turk might have had them
elfewhere : but they neither loved or cared
for him in his profperity, or pitied him in
his adverfity ; which occafioned thefe words
to drop from him, ' If he ere came to his
(
throne, he would make Hans Butter- box
* know, he Ihould pay well for his fifhing,
c
and fatisfy for old knaveries/ &c.
In conclufion. He was generally un-
fortunate in the world, in the efteem both
R 3 of
246 On the Life and Death
of friends and enemies : his friends ex-
claim on his breach of faith ; his enemies
would fay, he could never be faft enough
bound. He was more lamented as he was
a King, than for any affe&ion had unto
his perfon as a man.
He had feveral opportunities offered
him for his reftoring. Firft, by feveral
treaties, all ending in fmoke, by his own
perverfenefs. By feveral opportunities
and vi6lories which he profecuted not.
Firft, when Briftol was cowardly fur-
rendered by Fines : had he then come un-
to London, all had been his own ; but
loitering to no purpofe at Gloucefter, he
was prefently after well banged by EfTex.
When in the weft, viz. Cornwall, he
worfted EfTex : had he then immediately
hafted to London, his army had been
without doubt mafters of that city ; for
Manchefter was none of his enemy at
that time, though he was General of the
affociated counties.
Or had he, ere the Scots came into
England, commanded Newcaftle to have
marched fouthward for London, he could
not have miffed obtaining the city, and
then the work had been ended.
Or when in 1645, ^e na^ taken Lei-
cefter, if then he had fpeedily marched
for London, I know not who could have
refilled him : but his camp was fo over-
charged
t
of King CHARLES I. 247
charged with plunder and Irifli whores,
there was no. marching.
Amongft many of his misfortunes, this
I relate was not the leaft; viz. when
the Parliament laft time were to fend
him proportions unto the Ille of Wight,
he had advice, &c. that the only way,
and that there was no other means re-
maining upon earth to make himfelf
happy, and fettle a firm peace betwixt
himfelf and Parliament, and to bring him
out of thraldom, but by receiving our
Commiffioners civilly ; to fign whatever
proportions they brought ; and above all,
to make hafte to London, and to do all
things fpeedily : he was willing, and he
promifed fairly to perform thus much.
Our Commiffioners were no fooner come,
but one of them, an old fubtil fox, had
every night .
private and long conference
with him ; to whom, when his Majefty
had communicated his intentions of fign-
ing the propofitions, he utterly difliked
the defign, and told him plainly, ' He
* fhould come unto his Parliament upon
* eafier terms ; for he affured him, the
6
Ploufe of Lords were wholly his, and
* at his devotion/ This old man knew
that well enough, himfelf being one of
them : and in the Houfe of Commons he
had fuch a ftrong party, th^t the propo-
fUiqns fhould be mitigated, and made
R 4 more
248 On the Life and Death
more eafy and more fit for him to fign,
Upon this, the old Lord was to be Trea-
furer apud Gracas Cakndas, and a cow-
ardly fon of his, Secretary of State. This
was the laft and greateft misfortune ever
befel him, to be thus ruled and fopled by
that backfliding old Lord, who was never
fortunate either to Parliament or com-
monwealth. But by this aftion, and the
like, you may perceive how eafily he was
ever convertible unto the worfer advice.
In like nature, the former time of pro.-
pofitions lent unto hin), when of himfelf
he was inclinable to give the Parliament
fatisfa&ion unto their proportions, the
Scots Commiffiqners pretending what their
cold afFeftionate country would do for
him : upon this their difTembling, he had
fo little wit, as tQ flight the Englifh, and
confide in the Scots, though he well knew
they only had been the fole means of
ruining him and his pqfterity by their
juggling, felling, and betraying him.
Whilft he was in prifon at Carifbrook-
Caftle, horfes were laid at feveral ftages,
both ir\ Suflfex and Kent, purpofely to
have conveyed him to the Kentifh force?,
£nd to have been in the head of them, and
with the revolted fhips, if he could have
pfcaped ; and he was fo near efcaping, that
his legs and body, even unto the breaft,
\yere out at the window: tut whether
fear
of King CHARLES I. 249
fear furprifed him, or, as he faid himfelf,
he could not get his body out of the
window, being full-chefted ; he tarried
behind, &c. and efcaped not. Many
fuch misfortunes attended him ; fo that
one may truly fay, he was Regum infceli-
cijfimus. Some affirm before his death fe-
yeral prodigies appeared. All I obferved
a long time before, was, that there ap-
peared almoft in every year after 1664*
feveral parelia, or mock-funs ; fometimes
two, fometimes three. So alfo mock-
moons, or parafelenes, which were the
greateft prodigies I ever obferved or feared.
He was beheaded January 30, 1648. The
figure of that moment is as followeth.
250 On the Life, and Death
After the execution, his body was car-
ried to Windfor, and buried with Henry
the VHIth, in the fame vault where his
body was lodged. Some, who faw him
emhowelled, affirm, had he not come
unto this untimely end, he might have
lived, according unto nature, even unto
the height of old age.
Many have curioufly enquired who it
was that cut off his head : I have no per-
million to fpeak of fuch things ; only
thus much I fay, he that did it, is as
valiant and refolute a man as lives, and
one of a competent fortune -f.
King Charles being dead, and fome
foolifh citizens going a whoring after his
pifture or image, formerly fet up in the
Old Exchange ; the Parliament made
bold to take it down, and to engrave in
its place thefe words
:
Exit Tyrannies Regum ultimus> Anno Li-
bertatis Anglia rejiitutce primoy Anno Dom.
1648. Jan. 30.
For my part I do believe he was not
the worft, but the moil unfortunate of
Kings.
f See above, in Lilly's Hiftory of his Life and Times,
page 131, 132. "where this fecret is difcovered.
Several
[ ]
Several Englilh Prophecies, relat-
ing to the Life and Death of
Charles Stuart, late King of
Britain.
WE ufually fay prophecies and ora-
cles are beft underftood, when
they are performed ; many having com-
plained of the ambiguity of oracles, and
their ambodextrous interpretations -
y as
many alfo finding fault with the obfcure-
nefs of prophecies, imagining no mortal
men can give the proper ienfe of any
oracle or prophecy, except tadued from
above with the fame divine fpirits as were
given unto the firft authors. Were I to
meddle with divine prophecies, I could
tranfcend a volume in difcourfe of this
fubjeft ; but I have confined my prefent
endeavours in the enfuing treatife, only
to manifeft unto the whole world, and
this nation principally, the certain and
unqueftionable events, of very many Eng-
lifh prophecies, long fince delivered unto
us, and ftill remaining amongft us, which
have fo clearly and manifeftly declared
the a£lions of thefe prefent times wherein
we live, and with that lively portraiture,
that it were the higheft of incredulties to
queftion
252 On the Life and Death
queftion their abilities in the gift of pro-
phefying, or by unneceflary and ambigu-
ous queries to make the world believe
there can be any other interpretation
rendered of their fayings, than fuch as
we have vifibly with our eyes beheld,
even in this very age and time we now
live in. And if any curious impertinent
ihall be fo nice as to queftion by what
divine fury, or heavenly rapture infufed
into them, either by dreams, vifions, or
any other no&urnal revelation, thefe
reverend perfons became fo wife, fo fore-
knowing : I muft firft intreat fuch criticks
to acquaint me how, and by what means
either the Sybils, or many others, and
efpecially Balaam the Prophet, came fo
truly to prophefy either of Chrift, as the
moft learned believe he did, or of the
kingdom of the Jews, or of both, in
Numb. xxiv. ver. 17. * Then fhall come a
* ftar out of Jacob, and a fcepter fhall
* arife out of Ifrael.' I willingly confent
with the feveral expolitions of the learned
upon thofe words : yet do think it no
herefy, if I fay Balaam intended, by the
ftar there mentioned, Jefus Chrift ; and
by the fcepter, that the people or nation
of the Jews, fhould in future time be-
come a great and mighty people, and have
Kings to rule over them as other nations
had at that prefent j whereas the Jews were
of King CHARLES I. 253
only governed by Mofes at that time
:
yet we know Balaam was not of the peo-
ple of the Jews ; and yet in the 1 6th
verfe of that chapter he plainly faith,
* He heard the words of God, and knew
* the knowledge of the moft High/ We
muft acknowledge that he prophefied very
truly; for the fcripture, againft whofe
evidence there is no appeal to be made,
confirms it. But if Balaam loved the
ways of unrighteoufnefs, and laboured
with that continued infirmity of the
clergy and priefthood, viz. covetoufnefs,
let us lament and pity human kind, that
fo excellent a man as he in many things,
fhould blemifh all his rare parts, with
thofe filthy, but pleafmg minerals, gold
and filver.
If God Almighty, in thofe times of fo
great darknefs or heathenifm, did not
leave fome kindoms deftitute of prophetick
fpirits, though the true caufes by which
they did prophefy, lie concealed unto
pofterity, or are manifefted unto very few
at prefent living ; fhall we now think,
that in the pureft times of Chriftianity*
God either hath been, or is lefs merciful
than unto former ages he was ? or that he
is not as able or willing to infufe into
fome Chriftians the fpirit of prophecy as
into fome heathens of old ? How truly
did Homer deliver, that prophecy of iEneas,
many
254 ^N THE Life and DeIath
many hundred years before it came to
pafs
:
At Domus IEne<z ciinBis dominabitur Oris,
Et Nati natorum, & qui nafcentur ab Mis*
A prophecy it was of the greatnefs of the
Roman empire which we all know was
fully verified. How true is alfo that of
Seneca
:
— Venient Amiis
Seculafens, quibus Oceanus
Vinculo, rerum laxet^ &c.
Which was a prophecy of the difcovery of
the Weft-Indies and America, never known
to the ancients, and to us not above one
hundred and fifty years fince. But I
leave mentioning of heathen prophets, &c.
What fhall we fay of that prophecy of
Henry the Vlth, King of England, which
he delivered fo pofitively upon Henry the
Vllth, then a boy, and holding water
Unto him :
* This is the lad or boy/ faith
he, 1
that fhall enjoy the crown for which
'we ftrive/
Or of David Upaft or Unanthony, who
jnany years fmce prophefied of the pulling
down of Charing-Crofs. His prophecy
was printed 1558 ; the words are thefe
:
To
of King CHARLES I. 255
To tell the truth, many one would wonder,
Chartng-Grofs ihall be broken afunder
:
P. Shall preach, R. mall reach, S. (hall ftand
R. Signifies Round-head. P. Pref-
bytery. S. The Soldier, &c.
Charing-Crofs, we know, was pulled
down 1647, in June, July, and Auguft,
part of the ftones converted to pave
before White- Hall. I have feen knive-
hafts made of fome of the ftones,^ which
being well polifhed, looked like marble.
But I leave further determination of
thefe things unto fome other pen,, or
difcourfe, and come unto the prefent in-
tended difcourfe itfelf, wherein I ihall
make it very clearly to appear, that all,
or moft of our ancient Englifh, Welch,
and Saxon prophecies, had relation to
Charles Stuart, late King of 'England,
unto his reign, his aftions, life and- deaths
and unto the now prefent times wherein
we live, and unto no other preceding
-King or times whatfoever 5 which I prove
only by this undeniable argument, viz.
no King or Queen reigning in this nation
or kingdom did ever write or ftyle him
or herfelf, King or "Queen of Britain,
before King James, who being naturally
King of Scotland, and fucceffively of Eng-
land and Wales, was the firit that ever
either
256 On the Life and Death
either really was King of all Britain, or
that did fo entitle himfelf -
y nor was ever
any King crowned in white apparel but
King Charles. Befides there is a pro-
phecy extant, and printed long before
Queen Elizabeth died, viz.
When HEMPE is fponne,
England's donne.
O R,
When HEMPE is come and alfo gon,
Scotland and England fhall be one.
Which words intimate, that both Henry
the Vlllth, Edward the Vlth, Mary,
Philip, and Elizabeth, Kings and Queens
of England, muft firft have reigned, be*
fore Merlin's Prophecy could take place
:
in King James both nations were united,
and not before. Let me alfo add unto
this, a very ancient prophecy of the
Welch, viz.
Koronog fab Ane a wn& ddiwedh ar y
daroganeu.
In Englifh thus 2
The fonne of Ann crowned, ends all our
of King CHARLES I. 257
We never had yet any King whofe
mother's name was Anne ; but King
Charles's mother was Anne, fifter to the
King of Denmark, late deceafed.
The putting to death of the late King
was prophefied of above eighty years be-
fore it was done, by Noftradamus : the
book itfelf was printed about 1578, as I
remember in century the 9th : thefe are
the words,
Senat de Londres mettront a mort leur
Roy, viz.
The Senate or Parliament of London,
ftiall put to death their King.
Thefe examples (hew, that chriftians
have had the fpirit of prophecy, and
foretold plainly many ages before, what
fhould fu&eed.
The moft fignificant of all our Englifh
prophecies, is that of Ambrofe Merlin,
which I have made choice of in the firft
place, repeating orderly a verfe of the
prophecy, and then how it was fulfilled.
S A Pro-
[ 2 5 8 ]
A Prophecy of the White King,
wrote by Ambrofe Merlin, nine
hundred years Unce, concern-
ing CHARLES the late
KING.
' TT THEN the Lion of Rightful-
c
VV nefle is dead, then lhall arife a
* White King in Brittaine, firft flying,
' and after riding, after ligging downe,
' and in this ligg down, he fhall be lymed,
* and after that he fhall be led/
We have feen with our own eyes, and
thoufands befides, firft King James, who
reigned peaceably, and was therefore called
Jacofa/s Pacifiais, is dead, viz. that ftyling
himfelf King of Great-Britain, ^and reign-
ing two and twenty years, died 1625, the
27th of March. Many affirmed he had the
pifture of a lion on his breaft or fide
;
but it is probable he had fome eminent
natural mole there, which might caufe
that error ; becaufe in his nativity he had
both Saturn and Mars in Leone. In re-
gard of the great tranquillity and peace
we enjoyed in King James's time, and
the little or no blood fhed in his reign ;
and in confideration of the propagation,
of King CHARLES i. 259
and free admittance of the gofpel all over
this kingdom, he was rightly by the Pro-
phet ftyled, < The LION of Rightful*
' neffe.' But if the Prophet had given
him the name of Lion in any other
fenfe, he had notorioufly failed; being
King James was the moft pufillanimous
Prince of fpirit that ever we read of, and
the leaft addifted unto martial difcipline.
But in judgment either in things divine
or human (whilft fober or unbiased) the
moft acute and piercing of any Prince
either before or fince. He was admo-
nifhed of his death by a dream. He
dreamed that his mafter Buchanan ap-r.
peared unto him in his fleep, and gave
him thefe two verfes. I thought good
for the rarity thereof to repeat them.
Sexte verere Deum, tibi vitce terminus inflate
Cum tua candentiJiagrat carbunculus igne.
The Englifli whereof is
;
Thou James the Vlth of that name,
King of Scots, fear God, the term of
thy life is near or at hand, when thy
carbuncle-ftone burns in the hot fire,
The King told his bed-chamber men,
and fome other Lords, of thefe verfes next
morning, relating them really, and averred
S 2 i\Q
260 On the Life and Death
he made not the verfes, nor could his
mafter Buchanan ever almoft get him to
make a Latin verfe. The fuccefs was
thus : the King had a very large and fair
carbuncle ftone ufually fet in his hat ;
and we have feen him pi&ured many
times with fuch a carbuncle fixed to his
hat. But thus it happened : fitting by
the fire, not long after, this great car-
buncle fell out of his hat, and into the
fire : a Scottifh Lord took it up, and
obferved the King fickened, and alfo died
very fhortly after.
After King James was dead, Charles
Stuart, his then only fon, was proclaimed
King of Great Britain, by a general con-
fent of the people, his title being unques-
tionable. The occafion of the Prophet's
calling him White King, was this : The
Kings of England anciently did wear the
day of their coronation purple cloaths,
being a colour only fit for Kings : both
Queen Elizabeth, King James, and all
their anceftors did wear that colour the
day of their coronation, as any may per-
ceive by the records of the wardrobes.
Contrary unto this cuftom, and led unto
it by the indireft and fatal advice of Wil-
liam Laud, Archbifhop of Canterbury,
he was perfuaded to apparel himfelf the
day of his coronation in a white gar-
ment. There were fome dehorted him frpm
wearing
of King CHARLES I. 261
wearing the white apparel, but he obfti-
nately refufed their counfel. Canterbury-
would have it as an apparel reprefenting
the King's innocency, or I know not what
other fuperftitious device of his. And
of this there is no queftion to be made,
myfelf, though not occularly feeing him
that day, yet have had it related verbally
by above twenty, whofe eyes beheld it;
one or two were workmen that carried
his Majefty's apparel that day ; fo that I
challenge all the men upon earth living,
to deny his wearing white apparel that
day of his coronation, &c. It is alfo
reported, and I believe it to be true, that
fuch was his hafte to have the crown
upon his head, that he had not patience
to wait the coming of the Archbifhop,
whofe office it was to do it, but impa-
tiently in great hafte, he placed the crown
upon his head with his own hands ; which
moved the Spanifh AmbafTador, who was
then prefent, to fay, ' The King's putting
* the crown upon his head fo rafhly with
€
his own hands, was an ill omen.'
* Firft flying/
'
King Charles fummons a Parliament,
November 1640: the troubles of Scot-
land arifing in 1641, he left the Englifh
Parliament fitting, and went in perfon
S 3 himfelf
262 Otf the Life and Death
himfelf to fettle the difturbed affairs of
Scotland. He came home to London
about November, and was himfelf and
Queen royally entertained by the citizens,
who cried then ' Hofanna,' &c. But fee
how fuddenly many of the fame city cry
* Crucify, crucify/ For lo, in January
1 64 1, the citizens of London, and other
rude people, in great numbers flock down
unto the Parliament, and affront the King,
the Bifhops, and other temporal Lords
:
which rudenefs and faucinefs of theirs,
as himfelf pretended, moved him, the 10th
of January, 1641, firft to fly or remove
unto Hampton-Court, then to Windfor,
then into Kent, from thence into York-
shire ; fo that all the remainder of his
life, until he furrendered his perfon to
the Scots, was running and flying from
one place to another. I muft ingenuoufly
acknowledge, my eyes were witnefs of
very great rudenefs in the citizens, and
of as great a defect of civility and judg-
ment in fome courtiers, unto thofe ill-
bred citizens.
* And after riding.'
The firft horfe his JVIajefty raifed, were
in Yorkfhire, and thefe in or about July,
Auguft, and September, 1642, pretend-
ing they were for a guard for his perfon
:
from
of King CHARLES h 263
from which time, until the very time he
rendered himfelf to his countrymen the
Scots, which was May, 1646, he had an
army of horfe, and was frequently him-
felf amongft them : though it is not once
reported himfelf ever charged, as he was
fometimes invited unto it by the Lord
Charles Gerrard, a mod gallant man,
who would fay unto him many times,
* CHARGE, SIR/ &c. And indeed,
who would have loft three kingdoms,
without firft lofing fome blood in the
quarrel
!
* After ligging downe.'
From the time of his own voluntary
rendition unto the Scots, until his dying
day, he was never in the head of an
army, but did ligg down or lie flill, and
was carried up and down from one place
to another as a prifoner : yet had he
very great liberty until he difcharged him-
felf of his own word or parol at Hampton-
Court, and immediately efcaped to the
Me of Wight.
• In this ligg down he fhall be lymed/
During the time of his imprifonment,
or from that time the Scots fold his perfon
\into us for two hundred thoufand pounds,
S 4 it
264 On the Life and Death
it may properly be faid, * In this ligg down
• he fhall be lymed/ that is, he was at-
tempted and allured firft by one fide, then
another ; or he was feveral times, and by
feveral occafions, tempted or treated with-
al, (every one thinking themfelves fureft
who poffeffed his perfon) fometimes by
the Scots, other times by the Englifh, as
well Parliament as army : but notwith-
standing all overtures, his perfon was ftill
fafe looked unto, &c.
4
And after that he fhall be led/
After that propofitions had been pre-
fented unto him at Hampton-Court, and
laft of all at the Ifle of Wight, he re-
futing to fign them, or give fuch fatis-
faclion as was required; from that time,
viz. from December, 1648, until his
death, he was led, viz. he was more
ftriclly guarded and imprifoned than ever
;
nor from that time had the benefit of his
liberty as formerly he had had, but was
removed firft to one caftle, then to ano-
ther; then to Windfor, then laft of all
to Whitehall. So that moft properly he
may be faid to be now led. For I dare
fwear he went and came into all thefe
places moft unwillingly.
1
And
of King CHARLES I. 265
* And there (hall be (hewed whether
' there be another King/
Since King Charles did retreat from his
Parliament, they on the behalf of the
commonwealth afted as Kings, ufing re-
gal command, railing armies, monies,
taxes, & quid non, breaking his Majefty's
Great Seal, nlaking a new one of their own,
and fmce have altered the frame of govern-
ment, and converted monarchy into a
commonwealth.
* Then fhall bee gadered togather much
' folk, and he fhall take helpe for him.'
How many of the nobility, gentry, and
clergy, and what numbers of the com-
monalty affifted him, we know, and
they who were his affiftants do well to
their coft remember : for indeed, the
greateft part of the nobility, and gentry,
and priefthood, moft cordially and unani-
moufly followed him, and affifted him to
the hazard of their lives, and confumption
of eftates. And we know, even whilft
he was in Carifbrook-Caftle, what a re-
bellion was raifed by Goring, and others,
&c. in Kent and Effex 1648, befides that
great army of Scots and Englifh routed
i\\ Lancafhire.
< And
266 On the Life and Death
' And there fhall be merchandife of men,
' as of an horfe or an ox.'
This part of the prophecy was exaftly
verified in King Charles's, or the White
King's Time; for in 1648, after the de-
feat of the wretched Scots in Lancafhire,
the Englifh merchants did give money
for as many of the common foldiers as
were worth any thing, and fent them for
Barbadoes and other foreign plantations.
Some were fold dear, others cheap, ac-
cording to the quality of the perfon or
profeffion he was of. It is reported, that
many of thofe miferable wretches, fmce
their being at the Barbadoes, do fay,
they have left hell, viz. Scotland, and
are arrived into heaven. There was in
1644, 1645, &c. exchanging of foldiers
and prifoners ; but in 1648, abfolute
merchandifmg of mens bodies, and not
before. What price the Scots were fold
for, I know not : he that gave but
twelve pence apiece for any of that nafly
people, gave too much.
• There fhall bee fought helpe, and there
* fhall none arife, but bed for head.'
What Prince or State of Europe, was
not attempted fmce 1642, unto 1648, to
alM his late Majefty ? but in vain. Pro-
vidence
of King CHARLES L 267
vidence being not to be deluded by any
mortal man : each man that affifted, had
only a bed for his head, viz. a grave or
piece of earth for his burial. And how
many royal Englifh families, both of
gentry and nobles, I pity to relate, who
have mifcarried for his fake.
* And then fhall one gone there the fun
* arifeth, another there the fun gone
f
downe/
Intimating no more, but that the fear
and fadnefs of thofe times fhould be fuch,
as fhould caufe feveral perfons to leave this
kingdom or nation, for their fafety, as
many nobles and gentry, who took part
with him did, fome going to Holland,
others to France, others to feveral coun-
tries, as their fancies or occafions led
them : or it may import his Majefty
fhould go Eaftward or North-Eaft, as he
did when he went firft to the Scots ; and
the Queen before went Weftward or
South-Weft, viz. to France. I pity ex-
ceedingly the fad condition of many noble
families, which ftill to this day continue,
in foreign parts, poor, beggarly, and in
a moft uncomfortable condition.
1
After this, it (hall be faid by Britain,
' (King is King,) King is no King: after
'this hee fhall raife his head, and he
* fhall be taken to be a King.'
After
268 On the Life and Death
After he went to the Scots, and whilft
he was in durance, he was treated with
both by England and Scotland, as a
King. Yet afterwards it appeared he had
not the power of a King, to conclude
any thing : nay, afterward our Parlia-
ment made a vote,
* That no Addreffes fhould be made unto
' him any more.'
But that vote was repealed, and addreffes
were made, but to no purpofe. So that
the Prophet faid well, ' Sometimes King
;
* after, King is no King/ &c.
c
Bee many things to done, but wife men
* reading, &c. and then fhall a range of
* gleeds, and ever each hath bereaving,
* he fhall have it for his owne.'
I conceive this intimates no more than
the multiplicity of affairs in thefe times
:
but whether by the range of gleeds, he
intend either the Parliament themfelves,
or the army, or the Parliament's fub-
officers, I know not. I conceive here are
fome words wanting in the copy, which
might lead to explain thefe words, viz.
' And hee fhall have it for his owne/
Unlefs
of King CHARLES I. 269
Unlefs it be intended, thofe meant by the
range of gleeds, viz. great oppreffors, or
thole who then rule or command, fhall
have all for their own ; the Latin copy-
hath no more, but
Pofl hcec erit tempus mihomm> & quod
qui/que rapuerit, pro fuo habebit.
Viz. After thefe things, it (hall be a
time of kites or gleeds, and what every
man can get or purloin, he will take it
for his own. And this feems to be the
genuine fenfe of it : for how many very
poor men have we known to arrive unto
great eflates, fince thefe times, even to
thoufands a year and more ? Some, I
know myfelf, were men of very mean
fortunes in the beginning of this Parlia-
ment, that are now fo elevated, fo proud,
fo rich, fo arrogant, having had a hand
in fome publick employments, they fcorn
their kindred and country, forget their
birth and that neighbourhood which
brought them to this height of honour
:
and although like poor fneaks they came
to London in leather-breeches, and in
1642 were but vulgar fellows; yet now
coach it with four or two horfes, are
impudent, becaufe in authority: yet to
require fome of thefe, to write true Eng-
lifh, or fpeak fenfe, were to command a
270 On the Life and Death
f—t from a dead man : but fuch as thele
muft know, if they have good eftates as
that they have, we of the commonalty
muft have an account of our treafure.
< And this {hall laft feven yeares, loe
c
ravening and fliedding of bloud.'
If we confider that our wars began in
Anno 1642, we fliall then find that our
diftempers and wars have continued feven
whole years, within our own kingdom ;
for one copy hath it,
Et feptennio durabit guerra intra.
The war fliall endure feven years within
the bowels of the kingdoms : and whereas
he mentions ravening, I conceive where
the foldier is quartered, that action of
ravening cannot be avoided. England
hath felt free quarter, both of her ov/n
countrymen, and of the Scots and Scotifh
army, who were the trueft harpies that
ever lived, ftealing and purloining where-
ever they came, even unto a difh-clout.
You fliall have one example of two Scots
in Lancafliire 1648, quartered there in
a poor houfe, where they got a kettle of
brafs, being all their poor landlord had,
and having it on the fire with oatmeal
boiling in ale or milk 3 an alarum comes,
of King CHARLES I. 2jt
and one of their own countrymen pafles
by and invites thefe two foldiers to run
away, for all was loft. But fee their
villany, and prefent reward of thefe two
fools : away they trudge, but carry the
kettle and porridge on a ftaff betwixt
them, their landlord in vain crying out
for his kettle. But it pleafed God an ho-
neft trooper of ours, making hafte to pur-
fue the knaves, flew both thefe gluttons,
and fo returned the kettle to the right
owner,
' And ovens ftiall be made like kirkes or
c
churches/
If it were not publickly done in many
places of this kingdom before 1646, viz.
that churches were many times as beaftly
as ovens: yet in 1648, and 1649, Paul's
church was made a horfe-guard, and fo
continued until of late.
After, ' Then fhall come through the
* fouth with the fun, on horfe of tree,
€
the chicken of the eagle fayling into
* Brittaine, and arriving anone to the Houfe
* of the eagle, hee (hall fliew fellowfhip to
* them hearts/
Here the copies vary exceedingly, one
faying only,
Deinde
272 On the Life and Death
Deinde Pullus Aquilce veniet fuper ligneos
equos anno & fenio & erit guerra in Brit-
tania.
Viz. After the chicken of the eagle
fhall come upon wooden horfes within a
year and a half, and there fhall be war
in Britain.
Another copy hath it thus :
Deinde ab aufiro veniet cum fole fuper
ligneos Equos \ & Junto fpumantem inunda-
tionem maris, pullus aquilce navigans in
Britanniam, & applicans Jlatim tunc alta?n
'
domum aquilceJittens & cito aHamftiet, viz.
Afterwards the chicken of the Eagle
fhall come with the Sun upon wooden
Horfes, &c.
Verily, in a former treatife of ours, we
were not much eftranged from verity : yet
our modefty was fuch, and our refpeft to
his Majefty's perfon, we were in many
thing? filent. But upon further confi-
deration, this chicken of the eagle will
prove one of his Majefty's children. And
we remember, that the prefent Scots King
did about July 1648, upon the South or
South-Eaft coaft of England, come in
perfon unto the revolted fhips : he landed,
or w as viftualled at Yarmouth, and then
failed towards Kent, but without fuccefs
:
He alfo after that attempted Yarmouth,
of King CHARLES I. 273
but that attempt proved fuccefflefs. But
whereas, the prophecy mentions, • He
* fhould fhew (fellowfhip unto them
• hearts.)' Thefe words are in no Latin
copy that I have feen : however, at that
time of the Prince's being at fea, here
was no treaty or overture either offered by
him unto the Parliament, or by them
unto him ; only the reft of the fhips,
.which revolted not, were feveral ways
dealt with to deliver them up unto him.
If by the eagle be intended King Charles
lately dead, as doubtlefs he was, the
chicken of the eagle muft of confequence
then be one of his children, and the pre-
fent King of Scotland ; and then the
words may have this fenfe : That the
Prince at that time fliould be defirous of
getting fome footing or landing-place in
Kent (called here the High Houfe of the
Eagle) in regard Dover-Caftle ftandeth in
Kent on a rock : but failing there, he
made his journey to Yarmouth, and fb
was defirous to procure that town : but
herein he alfo was deceived* It is evi-
dent that the late King was the Eagle;
for he did nothing but fly or ride up and
down, during fome years, before his
reftraint s and it muft of neceffity then
follow, that the chicken here mentioned
is the Scots King for the chicken is men-
tioned before the death of the King to
T come
274 ®K TttE Life and Death
come from the Eaft ; and fo the Prince
did upon wooden horfes, viz. (hips. It is
true, the Prince got a caftle or two in
Kent, but to no purpofe.
* After a year and a halfe fliall be war
' in Britain/
This fhews a continuance of the wars,
either abroad or at home for fome certain
time, or feveral years. And we know in
1646, that moft excellent man the Lord
Fairfax had even ended our wars ; but lo,
in 1648, feveral revolts and rebellions ap-
peared againft the Parliament befides the
Scotifh treacherous invafion; all which ma-
nifeft a continuance as it were of the wars
:
nor are we yet quit of wars, or lhall be
for fome time hereafter.
* Then fhall a footh be nought worth,
* and every man fliall keepe his thing, and
* gotten other mens goods/
It is in Latin, Tunc nihil valebit Mercurius.
Thefe words fay only thus much, that
after that time, when the chicken of the
eagle, or prince of Wales, at that time
fhould either perfonally land himfeif, or
fet on fhore fome forces of his in any part
of England, which was in July 1648, or
Auguft;
of King CHARLES I,
Auguft $ that then, and from that time*
there would be no faith given to words*
Or any peace come from treaties : and we
well know with what difficulty the laft
treaty with his Majefty was obtained*
The Parliament had juft caufe to fear no
good would come from thence. The White
King, who ever loved to fifh in troubled
Waters, gave fuch ambiguous anfwers un-
to the Parliaments' propofitions, as figni-
fied nothing. Whereupon, confidering the
great engagement which lay upon them,
they at laft refolvfed,
Immedicabile vulnus etife reddendum* And
fo it was.
For verification of the latter part
:
Sed qui/que curabit quomodoy &c.
That every mail, who under the Par-
liament hath pilled, poled, or cheated
the people ; or any Parliament-man,
who hath by the ruin of the common-
wealth inriched himfelf, will be careful to
preferve his ill gotten goods, I do as verily
believe, as I do that there is a GOD in
Heaven.
' After the White King feeble fhall goe
f
towards the weft, beclipped about with
T % « his
2jt> On the Life and Death
' his folke to the old place been running
4
water.'
It is in the Latin
Ibit Rex debilis verjlis Occidenterrt.
At what time His Majefty went from
Hampton-Court, he went feeble, viz.
accompanied with no more than two or
three (a feeble company for a King) ; and
he then went to the Ifle of Wight, and
there furrendred himfelf to one Ham-
mond, governour of Carifbrough-Caftle
in the Ifle of Wight. That caftle ftands
near or upon the water. From this time
of his ifurrendring himfelf unto Ham-
mond, he was beclipped or ftraitly looked
unto by the foldiers. This is that Ham-
mond, as the King himfelf acknowledged
at Windfor, unto Ad. A. who furnilhed
him with that fmutty fheet Elenfticus
;
which accufed me of connivance with one
How of Gloucefterfhire, about Arabella
Scroop, one of the natural daughters of
the Earl of Sunderland. I challenge the
whole world, and both How and his
wife, and Hammond, to declare publickly,
if I had the leaft engagement, or did give
the leaft advertifement of any meeting of
theirs in the Spring-garden, or had any
connivance or plot in their defign : all
that
of King CHARLES I. 277
that ever I did, was a refolution of two
or three horary queftions, which pro-
miied the enjoyment of the woman. Not
having met with a fit opportunity of the
prefs, fince that flander caft upon me,
I took liberty herein to repeat this mat-
ter; giving that cavalier my moft hearty
thanks, that in publick took the pains to
vindicate my reputation: and although
I never had the happinefs, fince that his
vindication of me, to fee him ; yet let my
acknowledgment of that his courtefy be
accepted from him. Indeed, that oracle
of the law, whilft he lived, Sir Robert
Holborne, Knight, and my fingular friend,
both acquainted me of the man, and his
great labour to fift out the matter wholly,
ere committed to the prefs. The Lord
guide me in my ways, for I ferioufly pro-
teft unto pofterity, I never received fuch
injurious afperfions or calumnies, from
thofe who in reafon had caufe to be my
enemies, viz. the Royalifts, as from many
of our own party, or fuch as will or
would be called Roundheads. Had not
the virtue and honour of one not to be
paralleled member of Parliament, been
ever my fupport and defender, I had buried
my conceptions in filence, and fmothered
my endeavours in deep obfcurity. For
really, fo great is my refpefr and affec-
tion unto this honourable perfon, that
T 3 were
278 On the Life and De atij
were my fortune neceffitous (as GOD be
thanked it is not) I durft not, nay, I
would not do any difhonefl: or unbe-
coming aftion ;
fearing it might trench
upon the honour of that all, and nothing
but all gentleman, who lives only, and
defires to live no longer, than he may
ferve this commonwealth, without doing
injuftiee to any particular perfon, qr op-
predion, or any thing that is diihonor-
able to the commonwealth. Parliament,
or army, O, I abhor the incivility and
abfurdity of one now in fome authority
for the Parliament, who hearing a fcan^-
dalous afperfion againft me, without fur-
ther enquiry, protefted he would be mine
enemy, if I ever cariie before him, &c,
c
Then his enemies (hall meet him, and
f March in her place (hall be ordained a bout
* him, an hoaft in a manner of a fhield,
* fhall be formed ; then fhall tjiey fighten
4
an oven front.
1
When His Majefly was brought from
the Ifle of Wight to Windfor, he was
guarded before and behind, and on every
fide, with feveral troops of horfe, fo that
it was impoffible he fhould efcape ; fo that
it might well be faid, he was in the midft
pf an oven, &c.
f After
of King CHARLES I. 279
• After the White King fhall fall into 21
* kirkyard, over a hall/
We may juftly wonder, how exactly
this was fulfilled in the death of King
Charles, or the White King, The truth
of it was thus : that fome few nights be-
fore his death, he was brought to White-
hall, the regal feat of his progenitors :
againft the day of his death a fcafFold was
framed over againft the new Banqueting-
Houle, built by King James : and when
the King went unto execution, a way or
paffage was made out at one of the
weft windows for him, to pafs out unto
the fcafFold, where his head was cut off.
So that very pertinently it was prqphe-
fied, he fhould fall into a, churchyard over
a hall.
What
28o On the DEATH of
What manner of death the Arch-
bifhop of Canterbury fhould
die f
.
aoDecemb
1644
2H.24M1n.PM
Hor: aft. ©
3> a * \ ad
8 O % d
It may appear to all indifferent minded
men, the verity and worth of aftrology by
this queftiqn ; fqr there is not any amongft
the wifeft of men in this world could
better have reprefented the perfon and
condition of this old man, his prefent
ftate and condition, and the manner of
his death, than this prefent figure of hea-
ven doth.
I See, Mr. Lilly's Chriflian Aftrology, 4X0.
Beiiig
Archbishop LAUD. 281
Being a man of the church, his afcen-
dant is Capricornus, the cufp of the
ninth houfe : Saturn is lord of the fign,
now in Aries his fall ; a long time retro-
grade, and now pofited in the twelfth of
the figure, or fourth from his afcendant;
fo that the heavens reprefent him in con-
dition of mind, of a violent fpirit, tur-
bulent and envious, a man involved in
troubles, imprifoned, &c. Jupiter, a ge-
neral lignificator of churchmen, doth
fomewhat alfo reprefent his condition,
being of that eminency he was of in our
commonwealth. Jupiter, as you fee, is
retrograde, and with many fixed ftars of
the nature of Mars and Luna : an argu-
ment he was deep laden with misfortunes,
and vulgar clamours, at this prefent.
The Moon is lady of the fourth in the
figure, but of the eighth as to his afcen-
dant : fhe feparates from Saturn, and ap-
plies to the oppofition of the fun, near the
cufp of the eighth- houfe. Sol in a fiery
fign ; applying to an pppofition of Mars,
the difpofitor pf the aged Bifliop. Mar§
being in an airy fign and humane, from,
hence I judged that he fhould not be hang-
ed, but fuffer a more noble kind of death,
and that within the fpace of fix or feven.
weeks, or thereabouts becaufe the Moon
wanted feven degrees of the body of Mars,
He
282 Archbifhop LAUD's Charafrer.
He was beheaded about the ioth of Ja-
nuary following.
I write not thefe things as that I re-
joiced at his death , no, I do not : for I ever
honoured the man, and naturally loved
him, though I never had fpeech or ac-
quaintance with him. Nor do I write
thefe lines without tears, confidering the
great uncertainty of human affairs. He
was a liberal Maecenas to Oxford, and
produced as good manufcripts as any were
in Europe to th^t univerfity, whereby the
learned muft acknowledge his bounty : Let
his imperfeftions be buried in filence.
Mortuus eft \ & de mortuis nil nifi bonum.
Yet I account him not a martyr, as one
afs did i for by the fentence of the greateft
court of England, viz. the Parliament,
Jie was brought to his end.
ME.
MEMO I R S
LIFE
OF THAT
LEARNED ANTIQUARY,
ELIAS ASH^OLE, Esq.
JJrawii up by himfelf by way of Diary%
With an appendix of
ORIGINAL LETTERS,
Publiihed by Charles Bur.man, Eftj,
THE
PREFACE.
THE bare mention of the perfon,
whofe Diary and Letters are now
publifhed, may Sufficiently fatisfy the
world from whence they originally came,
and where they are ftill preferved. The
copy, from whence thefe papers are pub-
lifhed, is in the hand-writing of Robert
Plot, L. D. late profeffor of chymiftry,
chief keeper of the Aihmolean Mufseum
in the univerfity of Oxford, and fecretary
of the Royal Society ; and was by him
tranfcribed for the ufe of a near relation
of Mr. Afhmole's, a private gentleman
in Staffordfhire, who has been pleafed to
think they may be acceptable to the world
for their exaftnefs and Angularity. They
were collated a few years fince by David
Parry, M. A. of Jefus College in Ox-
ford, and head-keeper of the fame place,
w(
ho corrected from the original ma-
nufcript (a) fome few literal errors. The
character of Mr. Afhmole is fo well known,
[a] Inter MSS. Afhmol. Oxon. Num. 1136.
and
The PREFACE.
&nd fo excellently, though concifely drawn
in thefe papers, as well as in that article
publiflied under his name, in the Supple-
ment to the learned Mr. Collier's Hiftori-
cal Di&ionary, partly extra&ed from
thefe materials fey the juftly celebrated
Mr. Edward Llwyd, fuperior bedel of di-
vinity in the univerlity of Oxford, that
no recommendation of an obfcure editor
can be of any fervice, after fo noted
names. The ufefulnefs of this kind of
works I fhall not defcant upon : but only
fay thus much, That they let us into the
fecret hiftory of the affairs of their fe-
veral times ; difcover the fprings of mo-
tion ; and difplay many valuable, though
minute circumftances overlooked, or un-
known to our general Hiftorians ; and,
to conclude all, fatiate our largeft cu-
riofity.
Newington,
Feb. 17, 16-7.
Charles Burma*?;
THE
THE
L I F E
O F
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Efq.
IELIAS ASHMOLE, was the fon and
only child of Simon Afhmole of Litch-
field, fadler, eldeft fon unto Mr.
Thomas Afhmole of the faid city, fadler,
twice chief bailiff of that corporation ;
and of Anne, one of the daughters of
Anthony Bowyer of the city of Coventry,
draper, and Bridget his wife, only daugh-
ter to Mr Fitch of Aufley in the
county of Warwick, gentleman*
I was born the 23d. of May 16 17,
(and as my dear and good mother hath
often told me) near half an hour after 3
o'clock in the morning.
When I rectified my nativity, An. 1647.
I found it to be 3 hours 25 minutes 49
feconds A. M. the quarter cP of u af-
ceading. But upon Mr. Lilly's rectifica-
tion
283 The LIFE of
tion thereof, Anno 1667, he makes thd
quarter 36 afcending. I was baptized, the
the 2d of June following, at St. Mary's
church in Litchfield. My godfathers were
Mr. Chriftopher Baxter, one of the
proctors of the Bifhop's Court, and
Mr Offey, facrift of the cathe-
dral church.
Before I was carried to church, it was
agreed my name fhauld be Thomas (as
was my grandfather). But, when the
minifter bad name the child, my god-
father Offey anfwered Elias, at which his
partners wondered -
y and being (at their
return home) afked, why lie fo called me,
he could render no account, but that it
came fuddenly into his mind, by a more
than ordinary impulfe of fpirit. My god-
mother's name was Mrs. Bridges.
When I was about a year old, and fet
by the fire, I fell into it, and burned the
right fide of my forehead, it refting upon
the iron bar of the grate (of which a fear
always remained) but my good mother
being near, prefently took me up, and
applied fomething for my cure.
I had the fmall-pox (yet but few) as
alfo the fwine-pox and the meafles, when
I was young ; but know not the certain
time of either.
Being about 8 or 10 years old (but
the year I cannot remember) my mother
and
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es^ 289
and I were invited to my Coufin Black-
burn's in Long Parifh ; at that time they
were building of a barn, and I getting up
by ladders to the top thereof, fell down ;
in which fall the infide of my right knee
ftruck againft the edge of a great beam,
which thereby received a deep triangular
gafh, of which I lay a long time before it
was cured.
James Pagit, Efq; fome time Puifne
Baron of the Exchequer, married to his
fecond wife, Bridget, one of my mother's
fifters, and widow to Moyre, a
confeftioner in London. He had a fifter,
who firft was married to Dr. Mafters
Chancellor of Litchfield ; and after, to
Dr. Twifden his fucceflbr in the faid
Chancellorship.
Thomas Pagit his fecond fon (the chief
inftrument of my future preferments,
which I acknowledge with all gratitude
to his memory) being much beloved of
his aunt Twifden, came often to Litch-
field, when he was young; whofe ftay
there, as it occafioned an acquaintance
with my mother (fifter to his mother-in-
law) fo it begat in him an affe&ion to-
wards me; infomuch, as having given
fome good charafter of me to his father,
he became inclined to have me fent up to
London : And becaufe he and his fons
were greatly affe&ed to mufick, and very
U well
zgo The LIFE of
well fkilled therein, he was defirous I
fhould fpend part of my time at the mu-
fick fchool fhaying before fpent all at the
grammar fchool) : and being competently
grounded therein, I became a chorifter
in the cathedral church, where I remained
till the laid Baron fent for me up to his
houfe.
Mr. Meftenger, and after him Mr. Toby
Henchman taught me Latin.
Mr. Henry Hinde, organift of the ca-
thedral, who died the 6th of Auguft, 1641,
taught me the virginets and organ.
1633. The 2d of July I began my jour-
ney from Litchfield : my father and mo-
ther brought me onward to the far end of
Baffet's heath.
The 5th of July, about 11 o'clock be-
fore noon, I entred London.
16 July, the before-mentioned Mrs.
Twifden died of the iliaca pqjjio, and was
buried the 1 8th following, in Litchfield
cathedral, in a chapel on the right hand
of the Lord Baffet's tomb ; where was a
monument for Dr. Matters and herfclf,
but broken down by the foldiers in the
Parliament war.
4 October, Mr. John Perfon, a phyfician
in Coventry (who had my mother's eldeft
fitter) was buried.
1634. My father died about eleven
o'clock before noon.
22.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq,. 2 gt
22. Mr. Simon Martin's letter, which
gave me notice of his death, bears date,
the 2 2d of June.
My father was born upon a Whitfunday
in the morning.
He was bred up by his father to his
trade ;
yet when he came to man's eftate,
followed it but little : He more affected
war, than his profeffion, and fpent many
of his years abroad, which drew on him
a courfe of expences and ill-hufbandry.
His firffc voyage was into Ireland, with
Robert Earl of Eftex, Anno 159 .. . Two
other voyages he afterwards made, with
his fon, Robert Earl of Effex into the
Palatinate, from whom he received good
refpeft. He was an honeft fair condi-
tioned man, and kind to others ; yet
through ill hufbandry, became a great
enemy to himfelf and poor family.
1635. In this year I was taught on the
harpfichord, by Mr. Farmelow, who lay
in St. Michael's church-yard in Cornhill,
and continued learning with him till 3
1
Jan. 1635-6.
1 1 July. I came to live at Mount-Plea-
fant, near Barnet, and Itayed there the
reft of the fummer.
1637. Auguft 21. I came to Small-
wood, to Mr. Peter Mainwaring's, to aik
his confent to marry his daughter.
Se^tem-
292 The LIFE of
September 4. The fecond time I went
to Smallwood*
16. I returned to London.
1638. Jan. 23. I came from Mr. Juf-
tinian Pagitt.
March 27. I was married to Mrs.
Eleanor Mainwaririg, eldeft daughter to
Mr. Peter Mainwaring, and Jane his
wife, of Smallwood in Com. Ceft. gent.
She proved a virtuous good wife. The
marriage was in St. Benedict's church,
near Paul's Wharf, by Mr. Adams, par-
fon there.
July 16. I and my wife went towards
her father's in Chefhire, about four, poji
merid. where he arrived the 2 2d of July.
30. I took poffeffion of my houfe at
Litchfield.
September 10. My uncle Thomas Afh-
mole, caufed a privy feflions to be called at
Litchfield, whereby I had fome trouble
about my houfe there : The bill was
found ignoramus.
October 8. I came to London.
In Michaelmas term J, began to folicit
in Chancery, and had indifferent good
praftice.
December 20. I went from London
towards Chefhire.
This term I preferred a bill in Chancery
againfl my uncle Thomas Afhmole.
1639.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^. 293
1639, Jan. 28. I returned from Small-
wood to London.
About the beginning of March, Ca-
therine wife to my brother Mr. Peter
Mainwaring, and one of the daughters
and coheirs of Mr. Newton of Pqwnall in
com. Ceft. came to full age.
March 5. Poji merid. my filler Ann
Mainwaring, was brought to bed of her
firft child.
In Trinity term (as I think) I became
acquainted with Dr. Thomas Cademan
the Queen's phyfician : About the begin-
ning of July, Peter Venables, Baron of
Kinderton wrote to me, to take upon me
the management of his law bufinefs.
Auguft 1 . I went from London towards
SmallwoQd
5. I arrived at Smallwood.
O&ober 12. I and my wife returned
towards London, beginning our journey
from Smallwood this day.
Oftober 20.' I began to keephoufe, be-
ing arrived at London, this day.
1640. Jan. 11. My wife's fifter Mrs.
Mary Mainwar[ng, fell ill of an ague,
and having had five fits $
20. She took her bed.
February 6. 1 Poji merid. She died,
and was buried in the church of St. Cle-
ment Danes, near the entrance into the
ghancel. She had a very l^ndfome fune-
V 3 ral,
294 The LIFE of
ral, with efcutcheons of her arms, in a
lozenge, pinned upon her velvet pall.
1 8. My coufin Philip Mainwaring (a
younger fon of the houfe of Keringham)
married Mary the daughter and coheir of
Sir John Miller of Iflington.
May 14. Mr, Driver married Mrs. Mil-
ler, the other coheir.
April 4. I took lodgings in St. Cle-
ment's Lane.
May 19 f My wife was brought to bed
of a female child, ftill-born, about noon,
which was buried the next day.
June 9. I was prefented to the Lord
Keeper Finch, and on the 12th, entertained
by him upon the recommendation of my
worthy friend Dr. Cademan.
About the beginning of September, my
wife fell ill of a fever.
Oftober 31. I removed myfelf to a
chamber in, the Middle Temple, in Elm
Court, lent me by Mr. Thomas Pagit.
December 11. Joan Morgan, my maid,
died of the fmall pox.
1641. January 1 8, I began my journey
from Smallwood to London.
28. I entered London.
February 4. Mr. Hill moved me to an
agreement vyith my uncle Thomas Afh-
mole.
February 6. I was admitted of Cle-
ment's Inn.
February
ELI AS ASHMOLE, Eso^. 295
February 1 r . I was fworn an attorney
in the court of Common Pleas.
April 22. William Clark came to Lon-
don to be my fervant, he continued with
me until 1645.
24. He came to dwell with me.
May. About the beginning of May,,
my maid Elizabeth Coley fell fick of the
plague, but efcaped.
3. I borrowed of my coufin Ripling-
ham 70/. and paid it 29 June.
June 21. My brother Mainwaring re-
ceived 200/. from Mr. Simon Ives, upon
a mortgage of Smallwood.
22. I was bound with my brother, for
performance of covenants, about the be-
ginning of June. Towards the end of
Trinity Term I was fick for 3 or 4 days.
Auguft 11. I went to Windfor, upon
fome bufinefs for Dr. Cademan, being the
firft time I faw that cattle.
September 20. I and my wife went to-
wards Smallwood.
?3 We came to Litchfield.
Oftober 1 2. My wife quickened.
October 25. I went towards London,
leaving my' wife behind me ; becaufe big
with child.
29. I came to London.
30. I came to lodge in my chamber at
Clement's Inn.
U 4 0e-
296 The LIFE of
December 5. My dear wife fell fudden-
ly fick about evening, and died (to my
own grief, and the grief of all her friends).
She was buried the next night about nine
of the clock in the Aftbury church in
Chefhire, near the entrance of the fouth
aide of that church, viz. the Weft end of
that aifle.
December 14. I went from London to-
wards Chefhire.
16. Arriving at Litchfield, I firft heard
of my wife's death. She was a virtuous,
modeft, careful, and loving wife : her af-
feftion was exceeding great towards me,
as was mine to her, which caufed us to
live fo happily together. Nor was I lefs
beloved and efteemed both by her father
and mother, infomuch as at her funeral,
her mother fitting near the corps, with
tears, profeffed to the Baron of Kinderton's
lady (who after told it to me) and others
prefent, that fhe knew not whether fhe
loved me or her only fon better*
j8. I came to Smallwood,
1642. January 16. I vifited my dear
wife's grave.
January 18, I came from Smallwood.
28. I arrived at London.
February 3. Mr. Juflinian Pagit hav-
ing prppofed to me one of his clerk's
places in the Nifi Prius office the 10th
day of December laft ; but finding the
terms
ELIAS ASIIMOLE, Esq^ 297
terms too hard, I this day refigned it
up.
March 7. I removed my goods to my
chamber at Clement's Inn, and lay there.
Auguft 9. Mr. Hutchinfon of Cle-
ment's Inn, and myfelf, took a journey,
firft to fee my old fchool-mafter Mr.
Hinchman, at Drayron in Buckingham-
fhire, then to Oxford, fo into Hampfhire,
and thence to London.
29. The troubles in London growing
great, I refolved to leave the city and re-
tire into the country : and this day I fet
forward from London towards Chefhire,
to my father-in-law's houfe of Small-
wood.
November 1643. Sir Thomas Main-
waring, Recorder of Reading, was knight-
ed. I married his widow in 1649.
April 17. I went towards London with
my coufin Mainwaring of Caringfham.
25, I came to London.
May. 8. I came from London.
17 I arrived at Smallwood.
July 2. I went towards Long Witton
in Northumberland.
12, I came firft to Newcaftle with the
young Baron of Kinderton.
17. I returned into Chefhire with the
Baron of Kinderton's lady.
2 1 . We came into Chefhire.
The
298 The LIFE of
The reft of the fummer I fpent at Kin-
derton, in affifting Mrs. Venables, to get
off the Baron's fequeftration ; but we could
not prevail.
Oftob. 16. I went a fecond journey into*
the North.
21. I returned towards Chefhire.
1645. The beginning of this year (as
alfo part of the laft) was fpent at Oxford
by Mr. Hill of Litchfield, and myfelf, in
foliciting the Parliament there againft
Colonel Bagot, Governor of Litchfield,
for oppofing the execution of the King's
Commifiion of Excife (Mr. Hill and
myfelf being Commiflioners :) whereupon
January 8. a letter was fent to fetch the
Colonel thither.
Feb. 3. Mr. Hill returned to Litchfield.
Mar. 22. I firft became acquainted with
Captain Wharton, between eight and nine
in the morning.
Apr. 17. Captain Wharton moved me
to be one of the four gentlemen of the
Ordnance in the Garrifon of Oxford, 1
1
ante mend*
May 9. I was entered a gentleman of
the Ordnance, 9 ante merid.
15. I was affronted by a foldi'er at my
battery at Dover- Peer, but had fatif-
faftion.
Sept. 1. I was very much troubled with
my eye for a week.
14.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^ 299
14. I chriftened JMr. Fox's fon at Ox-
ford, 4 poji meridiem.
16. Mrs. Henchman died, my fchooU
mailer's wife.
17. This afternoon Sir John Heydon,
Lieutenant of the Ordnance, began to exer-
cife my gunners in Magdalen Meadows.
Oftob. 8. Mr. Wharton was made a
Captain of Hprfe.
12. I faw Mrs. March in Brazen-Nofe
Library, being brought thither by Cap-
tain Swingfield, 2 poji merid. This day
Mr. Merick made a motion to me to be
a Commiffioner of the Excife at Worcefter.
Dec. 8. I was recommended to be Com-
miffioner for the Excife at Worcefter, un-
known to me ; which when I knew, I
accepted, and prepared for my journey
thither.
16. The King caufed Mr. to
be out of the Commiffion of Excife, and
mine to be inferted in his place.
19. 2 poji merid. Mr. Swingfield and
myfelf received the Commiffion of Excife
from the Clerk of the Crown.
2 1 . Sir John Heydon gave me a letter
of' recommendation to my Lord Afhley at
Worcefter, of which this is a copy.
My LORD,
c f
I ^ HIS bearer, one of the gentlemen
'
JL °f Ordnance to the garrifon
< of
300 The LIFE of
* of Oxford, having an employment in
* your Lordfhips government, by the Par-
-< liament here put upon him, out of his
* defire to be made known and ferviceable
* to your Lordlhip, hath intreated my
' mediation and atteftation, to whofe
* perfon, induftry, and merits, during
' the time he hath been interefted in his
* Majefty's fervice, under my furvey, I can
* no leis than recommend him to your
* Lordfhip's favour, as an able, diligent
f and faithful man, wherein your Lord-
* fhip may be pleaied to believe
< Your Lordfhip's,
Pec. 21, < jvjoft affectionate fervant,
1645.
'JOHN HEYDON."
Dec. 22. I took my journey from Ox-
ford to Worcefter, 10 ant, merid. with
Sir Charles Luca,s.
23. 8 ant. merid. I arrived at Worcefter.
27. 11 Hor. 15 min. ant. merid. Mr,
Jordan Mayor of Worcefter, Mr. Swing-
field, and myfelf, took the Oath as Com-,
miffioners of Excife in the Town -Hall,
and thence went unto the office, and en-
tered upon the execution of the CQm-
miffion. The commiflion bears tefte the
15th of December preceding.
1646.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esc*, 3 ot
1646. Jan. 1 . 8 Hor. ante merid. I de-
livered Sir John Heydon's letter to my
Lord Afhley, who promifed me all kind-
nefs, and to fix me in the Train of Ar-
tillery in the Garrifon.
3d. 3 Hor. poft merid. Mr. Jordan, the
Mayor of Worcefter, Mr. Francis Grave,
Mr. John Swingfield, and myfelf, the
three Commiffioners of the Excife ; being
met at Worcefter, Mr. Geraid moved to
have me Receiver and Regifter, and Mr.
Svvingfield to be Comptroller ; which was
agreed unto.
Jan. 19. I firft heard of my mother
Mainwaring's death from Mrs. Mary
Brereton, my Lord Brereton's daughter.
March 12. 1 Hor. pojl merid. I received
my commiffion for a Captainfhip in the
Lord Amley's regiment.
Apr. 18. A new commiffion for the
Excife came to Worcefter.
21. Colonel Baldwin, Mr. Swingfield,
and myfelf, took our oaths to the laid
commiffion, 1 1 Hor. 40 minutes ante
merid.
27. I was chofen Regifter to the feid
commiffion, 1 Hor. 30 minutes poft merid.
28. Mr. Yardley was fworn one of our
clerks, 3 hour poft merid. upon my recom-
mendation. This Mr. Yardley was one
of the choir of Worcefter, after the fur-
render of the garrifon my fervant fome
years,
302 The LIFE of
years, and upon the King's return, made
one of the gentlemen of his chapel.
May 19. 5 Hor. poji merid. walking in
the fields at Worcefter, where fome were
fhooting at Rovers, an arrow ftruck very
near me, but I efcaped hurt : thanks be
to God.
22. 10 ante mefid. Sii* Ralph Clare
moved me to take a command about the
Ordnance in the fort of Worcefter.
June 12. I entered upon my command
as Comptroller of the Ordnance.
18. 1 Hor. 10 minutes poji merid. I re-
ceived my commiffion from Colonel Wafh-
ington.
July 14. Lichfield-Clofe was furrendered
to the Parliament.
July 24. Worcefter was furrendered
;
and thence I rid out of town according to
the articles, and went to my father Main-
waring in Chefhire.
July 3 1 . Mr. Richard Harrifon, mini-
fter of Tetnal formerly, and afterwards of
Litchfield, told me of my mother's death,
and that (he died about the 8th or 9th of
July, of the plague not long before, that
city being vifited this fummer. She was
a difcreet, fober, provident woman, and
with great patience endured many afflic-
tions. Her parents had given her exceed-
ing good breeding, and ihe was excellent
at her needle; which (my father being
1 impro-
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^. 303
improvident), ftood her in great ftead.
She was competently read in divinity, hif-
tory, and poetry ; and was continually
inftilling into my ears fueh religious and
moral precepts, as my younger years were
capable of. Nor did (he ever fail to cor-
reft my faults, always adding fliarp re-
proofs and good leftures to boot. She
was much efteemed of by perfons of note
with whom fhe was acquainted. She lived
in much friendfhip among her neighbours,
and left a good name behind her. In
fine, fhe was truly religious and virtuous.
Qftob. 16. 4 Hor. 30 minutes poji
merid. I was made a Free-Mafon at War-
rington in Lancafhire, with Colonel Henry
Mainwaring of Karticham in Chefhire;
the names of thofe that were then at
the lodge, Mr. Richard Penket Warden,
Mr. James Collier, Mr. Richard Sankey,
Henry Littler, John Ellam, and Hugh
Brewer.
Oft. 25. I left Chefhire, and came to
London about the end of this month,
viz. the 30th day, 4 Hor. pojl merid.
About a fortnight or three weeks before
I came to London, Mr. Jonas Moore
brought and acquainted me with Mr,
William Lilly : it was on a Friday night,
and I think on the 20th of Nov.
Dec. 3. This day, at noon, I firft be-
came acquainted with Mr, John Booker.
22.
304 The LIFE op
22. I was invited by Mrs. March, to
keep my Chriftmas with her at Lime-
houfe, which I did.
23. 4 Hor. 30 minutes I went thither.
1647. Feb. io. A boil broke out of
my throat, under my right ear.
14. The mathematical feaft was at the
White-Hart in the Old-Bailey, where I
dined.
Mar. 1 . I firft moved the Lady Main-
waring, in way of marriage, and received
a fair anfwer, though no condefcenfion.
Apr. 14. I went to Sir Arthur Main-
waring's, with the Lady Mainwaring.
May 25. I went towards Bradfield.
27. 8 Hor. ante merid. Mr. Humphry
Strafford and I went into Bradfield Houfe.
Jun. 12. I went from St. James's to
Engle-field, to table with Antipafs Cher-
vington ; and the next morning about
eight of the clock I came to his houfe.
14. I firft became acquainted with Dr.
Wimberley, minifter of Engle-field, 3 Hor.
poft merid.
16. 1 Hor. pojl merid. it pleafed God
to put me in mind, that I was now placed
in the condition I always defired, which
was, that I might be enabled to live to
jnyfelf and ftudies ; without being forced
to take pains for a livelihood in the world.
And feeing I am thus retired, according
to my heart's defire, I befeech God to
blefs
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^ 305
blefs me in my retirement, and to profper
my ftudies, that I may faithfully and
diligently ferve him, and in all things
fubmit to his will : and for the peace and
happinefs I enjoy (in the midit of bad
times) to render him all humble thanks,
and for what I attain to in the courfe of
my ftudies, to give him the glory.
June 25. Eleven Hor. ante merid. the
Lady Mainwaring gave me a ring enameled
with black, whereon was this pofy: '
A
* true Friend's Gift/
28. 7 Hor. 15 minutes poji merid. I
fell ill, and 10 Hor. 30 minutes merid.
took my bed. I was pained in my head,
reins, thighs ; and taking a carduus pofiet
at night, and fweating upon it, I mended.
July 1. This day I was much pained
in my head and eyes.
j 2. I went towards London.
23. The Lady Mainwaring entered upon
her jointure-lands.
26. Ten Hor. ante merid. I began to
be fick, and 5 Hor. 1 5 minutes poft merid.
I took my bed : the difeafe happened to be
a violent fever.
30. About 2 Hor. pojl merid. (as I was
afterwards told) Mr. Humphry Stafford,
the Lady Mainwaring's fecond fon (fuf-
petling I fhould marry his mother) broke
into my chamber, and had like to have
killed me, but Chriftopher Smith with-
X held
306 The LIFE of
held him by force; for which all perfons
exceedingly blamed him, in regard it was
thought I was near death, and knew
nobody. God be blelTed for this deliver-
ance.
Aug. i . I was in the extremity of my
fever, fenfclefs and raging.
14. Being fomewhat mended of my
fever, I this day got up. About this
time the Lady Mainwaring fell into a
fever, and Captain Wharton had the
plague.
25. Was the firft day I went down
ftairs.
31. I was very faint and ill again.
Septemb. 2. I fell ill again, and be-
came light in my head.
9. I took a purge, which wrought very
well, and mended.
28. I went to vifit the Lady Main-
waring.
Oclob. 26. I fell fick of a quartan
ague, at Mr. Staffoid's, having been in-
vited there to dinner.
Novem. ir. I went towards London,
and came thither the next day by noon.
25. My ague left me.
30. The Lady Mainwaring came to
live at her houfe at Bradfield.
Dec. 16. Being much troubled with
phlegm, I took an opening drink from
Dr. Wharton.
164.9.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^. 307
1648. January 14. 1 went towards Brad-
field from London.
Feb. 25. I was very ill as I went to
Theale.
28. Very fick in the afternoon.
March 2. Being at Pangborne, I was
very ill there.
12. Captain Wharton taken in his bed
3 Hor. ante merid. he was carried to New-
gate, 6 Hor. poji merid.
May 1 1 . I entertained John Fox into
my fervice.
22. The Lady Mainwaring fealed me a
leafe of the parks at Bradfield, worth
per ann.
June 6. Having entered upon the ftudyof
plants, this day, about three of the clock,
was the firft time I went a fimpling. Dr.
Carter of Reading, and Mr. Watlington
an apothecary there, accompanying me.
29. The Lady Mainwaring fealed me
a leafe of the field mead, worth fifty
pounds per annum.
Auguft 26. Captain Wharton made an
efcape out of Newgate. -
29. I began my journey towards Brif-
rol, with Mr. Hutchinfon.
31. We came to Briftol.
Sept. 6. We returned to Bradfield.
October 23. Going towards London, I
was robbed in Maidenhead Thicket, 5 Hor.
foji merid.
• X 2 Nov. 6-
308 The LIFE of
Nov. 6. Having feveral times before
made application to the Lady Mainwar-
ing, in way of marriage ; this day, 1
1
Hor. 7 minutes ante merid. fhe promifed
me not to marry any man, unlefs myfelf.
10. Two Hor. 15 minutes poji merid.
fhe lealed a contrail of marriage to me.
15. I was fequeftered of my lands in
Berkfhire.
2 1 . The fequeftration was taken off at
Reading.
Decemb. 5, 1649. The Lady Main-
waring was fequeftered by the committee
of Reading, upon her fon Humfrey Staf-
ford's information.
Feb. 14. An order for receiving the
Lady Mainwaring's rents.
April 7. Eleven Hor. 30 minutes ant.
mend. I came to Mr. Watlington's houfe to
table, who was an apothecary in Reading,
and a very good botanift.
25. My journey to the phyfick garden
in Oxford.
May 8. I was godfather to Elias Yard-
ly at Reading.
June 3. This afternoon I kifled the
Duke of Gloucester and Elizabeth's hands,
at Sion Houfe.
Aug. 1 . The aftrologers feaft at Painters-
Hall, where I dined.
Octob. 16. I accompanied the Lady
Mainwaring to London.
31. Tl*e
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq. 309
5 [ . The aftrologers feaft.
Nov. 16. Eight Hor. ante merid. I
married the Lady Mainwaring. We were
married in Silver- Street, London.
20. I was arretted by Mr. Ives for my
brother Mainwaring's debt.
2 1 . Captain Wharton was re-taken and
carried to prifon.
Decern. 19. I agreed with Mr. Myne,
for printing my Fafciculus Chemicus.
21. I firft began to learn to difTedi a
body.
1650. Feb. 18. I met Mr. Ives, and
We came to an agreement.
June 3. Mr. Lilly and myfelf, went to
vifit Dr. Ardee, at his houfe in the
Minories.
15. Myfelf, my wife, and Dr. Whar-
ton, went to vifit Mr. John Tredefcant,
at §outh-Lambeth.
21. I and my wife went towards Brad-
field.
22. Ten Hor. 30 minutes ante merid.
we arrived there.
24. Mr. William Forfter and his Lady
came to vifit us.
25. I and Captain Wharton went to
vifit him at Rufhall.
26. Nine Hor. 42 minutes pojl merid.
we arrived at London.
July 2. Six Hor. faft merid. I was ferved
yi\xh.2ijubpcena at Sir Humfrey Forfter's fuit.
X 3 29.
310 The LIFE of
29. Much troubled with the to.othach
on my right fide.
Aug. 8. I being at the aftrologers feaft,
two Hor. poji merid. I was chofen fteward
for the following year.
Captain Wharton having been carried
to the Gate-Houfe the 21ft of November
lad, the next day after, I went to Mr.
Lilly, and acquainted him therewith, who
profeffed himfelf very forry, becaufe he
knew Bradfhaw intended to hang him
;
and moft generoufly (forgetting the quar-
rels that had been between the Captain
and him) promifed me to ufe his intereft
with Mr. Bulftrode Whitlock (his patron)
to obtain his releafe. I thought it was
prudent to have my name then (as the
times flood) not to appear in print as the
inftrument that wrought Mr. Lilly to
do this kindnefs for him ; and therefore
in Captain Wharton's Epiftle to the reader
before his Almanack, in 1651, wherein
his publick acknowledgments are made
of Mr. Lilly's afMance in this ftrait, all
acknowledgments to me are omitted -
y tho'
in truth, I was the only perfon that
moved and induced, and conftantly fo-
licited Mr. Lilly to perfeft his enlarge-
ment : having at all times, fince my re-
turn to London, anno 1646, befriended
Captain Wharton, not only in difcovering
all defigns that I heard were laid againft
ELI AS ASHMQLE, Esa, 3 rx
hhlfa* either at Mr. Lilly's or elfewhere,
but alfo affording him my purfe freely
and liberally, towards his fupport in many
neceffitous occalions. Upon Mr. Lilly's
application to Mr, Whitlock, he advifed,
that the Captain fhould lie quiet, with-
out making the leaft complaint : and after
Chriftmas, when his being a prifoner was
almoft forgotten, Bradfhaw out of the
way, and Mr. Whitlock Chairman to the
council of flate ; Mr. Lilly having alfo
by this time, made fome other of the
faid council the Captain's friends (upon
his petition) he was difcharged ; no other
engagement being taken from him, but
that he would not thenceforward write
againft the Parliament or State. Here-
upon he became utterly void of all fub-
fiftence (which whilft he was under trou-
bles, fome or other contributed unto,
befides what he got by writing againft
thofe times) and thereupon, confulting
with me, about a new courfe of life,
and how he might fubfift, I frankly of-
fered him my houfe at Bradfield in Berks,
for him, his wife and family, to live at,
with fome other advantages there ; which
he mod gladly and thankfully accepting,
he went thither, and paft his time with
quiet and comfort for the moft part, till
his Majefty was reftored to the Crown :
and hereupon he ftiled me in his Alma-
X 4 nack
312 The LIFE of
nack for the year 1653, his 4
Oaken
* Friend/
Aug. 13. I bought of Mr. Milbourn
all his books and mathematical inftru-
ments.
14. Eight Hor. 30 minutes poji merid.
I bought Mr. Hawkins's books.
Oftober 18. I put in a plea and demur
to Sir Humphrey Forfter's bill.
Nov. 1 . My coufm Bridget Smart (only
daughter to my uncle Anthony Bowyer)
was buried.
12. I agreed with Mr. Lyfter for his
houfe in Black Friars, where I afterwards
dwelt.
23. Two Hor. poji merid. he fealed me
a leafe of the faid houfe at forty-four
pounds per ann.
26. Poji merid. I came thither to
dwell.
1 65 1. Jan. 1. I fell into a great loofe^
nefs, which turned into a fever, but
mended next day.
7. Captain Wharton returned from
Bradfield, whether I fent him to receive
my rents.
16. Four Hor. poji merid. my demurrer
againft Sir Humfrey Forfter's bill was ar-
gued, and held good,
22. About this time my left fide of my
neck began to break forth, occafioned
by fhaving my bear4 with a bad razor.
1 22.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^. 313
22. About this time I grew melan-
cliolly and dull, and heavy in my limbs
and back.
About this time I began to learn feal-
graving, cafting in fand, and goldfmiths
work.
Feb. 1. Three Hor. 30 minutes pojl
merid. I agreed with Mrs. Backhoufe of
London, for her deceafed hulband's books.
March 7. I went to Maidftone with
Dr. Child the phyfician. And 3 Hor.
pojl merid. I firft became acquainted with
Dr. Flood.
18. This night my maid's bed was on
fire; but I rofe quickly (and thanks to
God) quenched it.
April 3. Pojl merid. Mr. William Back-
houfe of Swallowfield in com. Berks,
caufed me to call him father thencefor-
ward.
26. Five Hor. 30 minutes pojl merid.
my father Backhoufe brought me ac-
quainted with the Lord Ruthin, who was
a moft ingenious perfon.
June 10. Mr. Backhoufe told me I
muft now needs be his fon, becaufe he
had communicated fo many fecrets to
me.
July 21. I gave Mr. Grifmond my T!he-
atrum Chemicum Britannicum to print.
Auguft 1 1 . Captain Wharton went to
receive my rents at Bradfield.
Aug. 14.
314 The LIFE op
Auguft 14. The Aftrdlogers feaft at
Painters Hall, London.
This night about one of the clock, I
fell ill of a forfeit, occafioned by drinking
water after venifon. I was greatly op-
preffed in my ftomach ; and next day Mr.
Saunders the Aftrologian fent me a piece
of Briony root to hold in my hand ; and
within a quarter of an hour, my ftomach
was freed of that great oppreffion, which
nothing which I took from Dr. Wharton
could do before.
About this time my brother Peter Main-
waring's wife died.
September 1 1 . Captain Wharton went
to receive my rents.
22. Mr. Vaughan began to engrave the
pictures in Norton's Ordinal. He wrought
and finifhed all the cuts for my Tbeatrum
Chemicum Britannicum, at my houfe in
Black-Friars,
30. Captain Wharton arrefted : I and
Mr, Grifmond, bail.
Oftober 9. My father Backhoufe and I
went to fee Mr, Goodier, the great bo-
tanift, at Petersfield,
20. Mr. Lilly gave me feveral old aftro-
logical manufcripts.
November 10. About four poji merid.
my wife's eldeft fon, Mr. Edward Stafford,
died.
11*
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Eso^. 315
1 1 , Ten pojl merid. he was buried in
Bradfield church.
12. Sir John Backhoufe of Swallow-
field's widow died.
December 7. Two hor. pojl merid. Dr.
Paget lent me feveral Chymical manuf-
£ripts: and here began my acquaintance
with him.
19. I fent Captain Wharton to receive
my rents at Bradfield.
1652. January 21. The gum at the
back end of the right fide of my upper
jaw cleft ; and about nine hor, pojl merid.
I felt a new tooth coming up.
26. Six hor, poji merid. the firft copy of
my T^heatrum Chemicum Britannicum was
fold to the Earl of Pembroke.
29. Ten hor. ante merid. Mr. Lilly gave
me his pifture in oil colours, of which
there never had been copy taken.
February u ?
Two hor. forty-five mi-
nutes pojl merid. the ftatute of 3000/. and
Mr. Stafford's counterpart of his leafe of
my wife's jointure was delivered to me, by
direction of Sir Arthur Mainwaring's lady,
who had been trufted with it,
About this time I began to learn He-
brew of Rabbi Solomon Frank.
March 1. I fell fick of the headach
and a cold, which continued five weeks.
8. Six hor. fifteen minutes ante merid.
Dr. Wharton let me blood.
10.
3i6 The LIFE of
io. This morning my father Backhoufe
opened himfelf very freely, touching the
great fee ret.
April 9. I paid my man John Fox his
wages, and difcharged him of my fervice,
12. This morning I received more fa
-
tisfaclion from my father Backhoufe, to
the queftions I propofed.
I fent Captain Wharton to Bradfield to
receive my rents.
27. I went to the feffions at Newbury,
where Colonel Evelin, governor of Wal-
lingford (being fet on by Sir Humfrey
Forfter) was exceeding bitter againft me,
to the wonder of the whole court.
May 28. The inquifition upon my fta-.
tute of 3000/. was found at Maidenhead,
I and my wife tabled this fummer at
Mr. Tradefcant's.
June 14. 11 Hor. ante merid. Dr. Wil-
kins and Mr. Wren came to vifit me at
Black Friars : this was the firft time I
faw the doctor.
23. Captain Wharton was fent to re-
ceive my rents ; and July 16, brought his
wife and family to Bradfield.
Augufl: 2. I went to Maidftone affizes
to hear the witches tried, and took Mr,
Tredefcant with me.
16. I went towards Chefhire.
26. Dr. Wharton fell fick of a violent
and dangerous fever about noon.
28.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^ 3 i
7
28. I arrived at Gawfworth, where my
father-in-law, Mr. Mainwaring then-
lived.
September 1 1 . Young John Tredefcant
died.
1
5.' He was buried in Lambeth Church-
yard by his grandfather.
23. I took a journey into the Peak, in
fearch of plants, and other curiofities.
27. I came to Mr. John Tompfon's,
who dwelt near Dove Bridge ; he ufed a
call, and had refponfes in a foft voice. He
told me Dr. Wharton was recovering from
his ficknefs, and fo it proved.
Oftober 2. I came to Litchfield.
3. Mr. Anthony Diot moved me to re-
fer controverfy between me and my uncle
Thomas Afhmole.
13. My faid uncle quitted his title to
me, which pretended to my houfe in
Litchfield, and fealed to me a deed of bar-
gain and fale.
14. He alfo fealed me a releafe, and
gave me pofleflion.
November 2. Four hor. poji merid. I re-
turned to London, and in an hour after to
my houfe.
3. Mr. Lilly called before the com-
mittee of plundered minifters, and com-
mitted.
20. My wife went again to Mr. Tredef-
cant's, to ftay fome time there.
21.
3 1 8 The LIFE op
21. I difcharged my man Hobs of my
fervice.
December 14. I was ferved with a fub-
fcena at Sir Humphry Fofter's fuit, three
hor. forty minutes poft merid.
15. His bill was filed.
18. My fitter Mrs. Dorothy Main-
waring came to live with my wife eleven
bor. ante merid.
She flayed with her but till the 16th of
January following.
January 13, 1653. I held a court at
Bradfield, as lord of that manor.
Mr. Anthony Brook of Sunning was my
fteward. Sir Humphrey Forfter coming
thither, I arretted him.
17. My wife left Mr. Tredefcant's, and
came to Mr. Flint's.
March 18. The Aftrologers feaft was
held.
April 8. Dr. Langbaine, provoft of
Queen's College, fhewed me Mr. Selden's
letter to him, wherein he faid, he fhould
be glad to be acquainted with me ; for he
found by what I had publifhed, that I was
affetted to the furtherance of all good
learning.
20. This morning I firft became ac-
quainted with Arife Evans, a Welch pro-
phet 5 and fpeaking of the Parliament, I
afked him when it would end ? He an-
fvvered, the time was fhort, and it was
even
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es<^ 319
even at the door. This very morning at
eleven of the clock, the mace was taken
away from the Speaker, and the Parlia-
ment diflblved ; and I conje&ure it was
much about the time that Arife Evans and
I had this difcourfe.
May 12. Three hor. pojl merid. My
coufm William Afhmole came to London.
He went to Mr. Sidleyupon trial.
13. My father Backhoufe lying fick in
Fleet-ftreet, over againft St. Dunftan's
church; and not knowing whether he
fhould live or die, about eleven of the
clock, told me, in fyllables, the true mat-
ter of the Philofophers Stone, which he
bequeathed to me as a legacy.
June 21. I agreed with Dr. Bathurft for
the remaining years, in my houfe at Black-
Friars.
July 25. Nine hor. thirty minutes, I
was firft acquainted with Mr. Selden ;
who ufed me very courteoufly, and en-
couraged me in my ftudies.
Auguft 8. Eight hor. thirty minutes
ante ?nerid. I began my voyage with Dr.
Carver into Cornwall, he going thither to
open a mine for the Lord Mohun.
17. Nine hor. pojl merid. we came to
Brecknock.
September 12. Nine hor. fifteen minutes
pojl merid. we returned to London.
Oftober
320 The LIFE ot
Oftober i . Seven Bor. pojl merul I firft
became acquainted with Mr. Ogilby.
4. I was troubled with the toothach
:
Major Rufwell, (Dr. Bathurft's apothe-
cary) flopped it.
16. Sir John Heydon, lieutenant of
the ordnance to King Charles the ift, and
my worthy friend died.
November 18. My aunt Bowyer, wife
to my uncle Anthony Bowyer, was bu-
ried.
20. I was again troubled with the tooth-
ach for three days.
23. My good friend and neighbour Dr.
Wimberley, minifter of Englefield in
Berkfhire, died.
25. He was buried at St. Margaret's in
Weftminfter, where formerly he had been
parfon.
This day I bound my coufin William
Afhmole an apprentice to Mr. Clothier, a
fadler.
1654. January 21. Doftor Wharton
began his lefture at the Phyfician's College
10 hor. ante merid.
February 6. The hearing in Chancery
came on, wherein Sir Humphrey Forfter
was plaintiff againft me. As foon as my
anlwer was opened, it was referred to Mr.
Chaloner Chute my counfel to determine.
March 11. 4 Hor. pojl merid. Mr.
Chute figned his award.
16.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Eso^. 321
16. In purfuance whereof I received
from Sir Humphrey Forfter 3 50 A 11 hor.
ante merid* \ r/:'* it!: 1: £'jr
February 2. I acquainted Doctor Whar-
ton with my fecret for the Cure of the
timed pq/Jio > and he applied it this morn-
ing to Mr* Faithorne the graver, and it
cured him.
July 3» My- wife went to lodge at Mr.
Wit's.
17. I came to Litchfield*
22. I returned thence.
Auguft 22. Aftrologers feaft.
24. I made a journey to Canterbury,
Dover, &c.
September 1. I returned to London.
15* I went to vifit Mr. Oughtred, the
famous mathematician*
28. I received 300/. from Sir Hum-
phrey Forfter.
O6L 7. Mr. William Floyd's firft wife
(was) buried at Swallowfield in Berkfhire.
November 24. 6 Hor> pojl Merid, my
good father-in-law Mr. Petei* Mainwaring
died at Gawfworth.
December 8. Doctor Pordage was put
out of Bradfield living* By his removal it
fell to me to prefent, and knowing the
worth and learning of Mr. Floyd (then
living with my father Backhoufe, as tutor
to his children) I refolved to beftowit up-
on him ; and thereupon lent for him up
Y to
32± The LIFE of
to London, and on the 18th acquainted
him with my intention.
30. I figned a prefentation to him. He
was examined by the Tryers, and patted
with approbation : But defigns being laid
againft him by Mr. Fowler and Mr. Ford,
both minifters of Reading, who endea-
voured to bring in Doctor Temple, fup-
pofing Sir Humphrey Forfterhad right of
prefentation, he thought better to refign
his prefentation to me, than to undergo a
conteft with thofe men.
1655. March 30. Hereupon I prefent-
ed one Mr. Adams, who, having a living
of 140/. per ann. and finding he muft
undergo a conteft with thofe that oppofed,
Mr. Floyd thought fitter to keep his own
living, than part with it in hopes of a far
better.
November 28. The peace between Eng-
land and France was proclaimed at Weft-
minfter 10 hor. 45 minutes ante merid.
1656. And at 1 1 hor. 45 minutes it was
ploclaimed at White- Hall.
April 17. Archbifhop of Armagh (was)
buried.
May 23. Firft fiiow at Sir William Da-
venant's opera.
June 26. I fell fick, and had a great
loofenefs.
July. In this month I was troubled
with a great pain in my right breaft.
12.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^. 323
12. I paid Mr. Faithorne 7 A for en-
graving my pifture.
Auguft 1,4 Journey to Mr. Sterill's in
Effex.
7. Colonel Wharton came home upon
his parole.
29. I figned and fealed my prefentation
for Bradfield living to Mr. Lancelot Smith
6 hor. 1 5 minutes ante merid. and delivered
it to the committee.
This man, after fome conteft, enjoyed
the living ; and the right of prefentation
being acknowledged to be mine, I had no
farther trouble.
This day the Aftrologers feaft was
held
September 4. Coufm ^ Thompfon
(was) chriftened.
1 1 . I went towards Litchfield,
13^ About 9 hor. ante merid. I £ame
firft to Mr. Dugdale's at Blyth-HalL
Oftober 9* I returned to London*
December 19. I went towards Blyth*
Hall.
1657. January 14. 10 Hor. 40 minutes
ante merid. I returned to London.
February 22. My coufm Everard Main-
waring died. March. 27* I went towards
Blydi-Hall.
April 20. 5 Hor. pofl merid. I bruifed
my great toe with the fall of a great
form,
Y a May
ja 4 The LIFE of
May 2. 7 Her. ante merid. I returned
to London.
19. I accompanied Mr. Dugdale in his
journey towards the Fens 4 Hor. mi-
iiutes ante rterid.
June 3. 9 Hor. 30 minutes ante merid.
We came to York.
July 7. 6 i&r. 45 minutes ante merid.
I returned to London.
September 22. I fell ill of the tooth-ach,
which continued three days.
October 8. The caufe between me and
my wife was heard, where Mr. Serjeant
Maynard obferved to the court that there
were 800 fheets of depofitions on my
wife's part, and not one word proved
againft me of ufing her ill, nor ever giving
her a bad or provoking word.
9. The Lords Commiifioners having
found no caufe for allowing my wife ali-
mony, did, 4. hor. poji merid. deliver my
wife to me ; whereupon I carried her to
Mr. Lilly's, and there took lodgings for
us both.
November 1 1 . 2 Hor. 1 5 minutes pojl
merid.. I was admitted of the Middle
Temple.
December 1. About 10 hor. 30 minutes
pojl. 77ierid. it thundered and lightened*
and at this time was the writ fealed for
iummons -to the new Lords of the Par-
liament. 2
v - * * •
22.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq. 325
22. I and my wife came towards Al-
28. I went to London ;
29, And thence towards Blyth-Hall.
1658. January 15. I came to Bradfield.
19. I returned to Albury.
March 30. I dined with the Florida
Embaffador at Mr. Martin Noell's,
May 7. I firft went to the Record-
Office in the Tower, to colleft materials
for my work of the Garter.
9. I was ftruck by a coach-horfe, on
the infide of my left thigh,
June 12. I firft became acquainted with
Sir Roger Twi/den,
July 27. 4 Hor. poji merid. I went to-
wards Warwickihire and Staffordfhire. In
this journey I vifited Sir Thomas Leigh,
Sir Harvey Bagot, Sir Richard Lewfon,
and the Earl of Denbigh.
Auguft 21. I returned to London.
November 13. I was enterred into Mr.
jHenlhaw's chamber in the Middle Tem-
ple, which I bought of him for 130/.
being admitted to it this d^y 7 hor. 30
minutes ante merid,
17. ill Hor. 15 miriutes ante merid. I
brought my goods thither, and 2 hor- poft
merid. came the reft.
1659. May 24. I became acquainted
with Mr. Scipio Squire,
326 The LIFE of
25. I went to Windfor, and took Mr.
Hollar with me to take views of the
caftle.
July 2. Was the Antiquaries feaft.
Auguft 16. I came to Roe-Barnes, to
table there.
2 1 . My Study was broken up by the
foldiers, upon pretence of fearching for
the King, but I loft nothing out of it.
October 2. Mr. John Watlington, an
apothecary of Reading, and an able bo-
tmift (my very good friend) was buried.
5. Mr. Lilly received a gold chain from
the King of Sweden.
November 2. Was the Aftrologers
feaft.
December 12. Mr. Tredefcant and his
wife told me they had been long confider-
ing upon whom to beftow their clofet of
curiofities when they died, and at laft had
refolved to give it unto me.
14. This afternoon they gave their
fcrivener inftru£tions to draw a deed of
gift of the faid clofet to me.
16. 5 Hor. 30 minutes poji merid. Mr.
Tredefcant and his wife fealed and deli-
vered to tne the deed of gift of all his ra-
rities.
1660. January 3. My uncle Anthony
Bowyer died.
March 2. I went into Warwickfhire,
April 11. I returned to London.
June
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^ 327
June 6. 4 Hor. 15 minutes ppjl merid,
I firft became acquainted with Sir Edmund
Walker Garter.
16. 4 Hor. pqft merid. I firft trifled the
King's hand, being introduced by Mr.
Thomas Chiffinch.
18. 10 Hor. ante merid. was the fecond
time I had the honour to difcourfe with
the King, and then he gave me the place
of Windfor Herald.
22. This day the warrant bears date.
About this time the King appointed me
to make a defcription of his medals, and
1 had them delivered into my hands, and
Henry the Vlllths clofet afligned for my
ufe.
July 19. This morning Mr. Secretary
Morris told me the King had a great kind-
nefs for me.
Auguft 6. Mr. Ayton, the King's chief
gentleman-ufher came to me into the
clofet, and told me, the King had com-
manded that I fhould have my diet at
the waiters table, which I accordingly
had.
10. The Officers at Arms took the
oaths, and myfelf among them, as Wind-
for Herald.
14. This afternoon was the firft pub-
lick meeting of the Officers at Arms in the
Herald's Office.
Y 4 zu
328 The LIFE of
21. I prefented the King with the three
books I had printed, viz. Fajciculus Che-
micus, Tbeatrum C/jemicuw, and The Way
to Blifs.
September 3 . My warrant figned for the
Comptroller's Office in the Excife.
17. I delivered my faid warrant for the
Excife to the CommifTioners of Appeals.
October 24. 5 Hor. poft merid. I came to
the Excife Office, and took pofleffion of
the Comptroller's Office.
November 2, I was this night called to
the bar in the Middle Temple Hall.
7. I had my admittance to the bar in
the faid hall.
December 28. I took my oath, as
Comptroller of the Excife before Baron
Turner.
1 66 1. January 15. I was admitted a
member of the Royal Society at Grefham
College,
February 9, A warrant was figned by
the King for my being Secretary of Su-
rinam in the Weft Indies.
April 3. My patent for Comptrollerfhip
of the Excife bears telle,
13. The King gave my Lord Chamber-
lain order, to fettle me as the firft Herald,
in cafe any difpute fhould happen.
May 16. The grant of Arms to me
from Sir Edward Byfh Clarencieux bears
date.
June
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esc^ 329
June 28. John Walfh was fworn my
deputy,
November 6. Mr. Thomas Chiffinch
dined at my chamber in the Middle Tem-
ple.
July 12. I chriftened Mr. Buttler the
goldfmith's fon, William.
1662. January 26. I paid in 50/. the
half of my Royal Prefent to the King.
March 5. I fent a let of Services and
Anthems to Litchfield cathedral, which
coll me 16/.
April 22. Mr. John Tredefcant died.
May 29. I was made one of the Com-
miffioners for recovering the King's goods.
May 30. My Father Backhoufe died this
evening at Swallowfield.
This Eafter Term I preferred a bill in
Chancery againft Mrs. Tredefcant, for
the rarities her hufband had fettled on me.
June 17. About 3
Hor.pojl merid. the
Commiffioners for the office of Earl Mar-
flial firft fat in Whitehall.
This afternoon my father Backhoufe
was buried in Swallowfield church.
29. 11 Hor. 36 minutes ante merid. I
firft kiiTed the Queen's hand.
Auguft. I accompanied Mr. Dugdale
in his vifitation of Derby and Notting-
hamfhires.
9. I bought Mr. Tumepemine's intereft
in the leafe of Hpmerich lands.
Sep-
330 The LIFE of
September, I paid the other half of my
Royal prefent to the King, viz. 50/.
December 5. Ichriftened Captain Whar-
ton's daughter, Anne.
16%. March. I accompanied Mr. Dug-
dale in his vifitation of Staffordfhirc
and Derbyfhire.
May. Towards the end of this month
I chriftened Mr. Timothy Eman's fon of
Windfor.
27. I fell ill of a feverifh diftemper.
July 6. I went towards Oxford, at-
tending the body of Archbilhop Juxon.
Auguft 3. 9 Hor. ante merid. I began
my journey to accompany Mr. Dugdale in
his vifitations of Shropfhire and Chefhire.
Oftober 10. I returned to London.
November 2 1 . Mr. Povey brought the
Earl of Peterborough to my chamber.
1664. January 19. Mr. Thomas firft
promifed me a place in the White Office.
February 5. The Benchers of the Mid-
dle Temple granted me an alignment pf
my chamber in the Middle Temple.
8. My pifture was drawn by Mr. Le
Neve in my Herald's coat.
12. Mr. Dugdale fell fick of a fever.
13. I gave 20/. towards the repair of
Litchfield minfter.
March 17. I chriftened Secundus fon tQ
Mr. Lacy the Comedian,
May
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^ 331
May 18. My caufe came to hearing in
Chancery againft Mrs. Tredefcant.
June 17. I gave five volumes of Mr.
Dugdale's Works to the Temple Library,
and had this acknowledgment.
Tarliamentum tentum iytb die
Junit,
1664,
c
Ordered that Mr. Afhmole of the ut-
* ter bar have their Mafterfhips thanks for
f the books now prefented by him to their
* Mafterfhips for the library/
27. The White Office was opened,
wherein I was Comptroller.
July 16. I having bought the third part
of my chamber upon the death of Mr.
Perrot, the bench this day gave me an
affignment of it.
Auguft 9. Grand day at the reading in
the Middle Temple, whereat I was one of
the Stewards.
1665. February 8. About 8 Hor. ante
merid. Mr. Thomas gave a warrant of
attorney to confefs a judgment to me of
1 200/.
17. Sir Edward Bifh fealed his deputa-
tion of me for vifiting Berkfhire.
May 1 1 . I began to make my vifitation
of Berkfhire at Reading.
Auguft 26. I went towards Blyth Hall.
This
332 The LIFE of
This year about 1 5 of July (the plague
encreafmg) I retired to Roe Barnes, and
the following winter compofed a good
part of my work of the Garter there.
1666. January 17. I beftowed on the
Bailiffs of Litchfield a large chafed filver
bowl and cover, which coil: me 23 1. 8 s.
6d. -
June. I prefented the publick library at
Oxford with three folio volumes, contain-
ing a defcription of the Confular and Im-
perial Coins there, which I had formerly
made and digefted, being all fairly tran-
fcribed with my own hand. In acknow*
ledgmout of which the following was en-
tred in the regifter of benefactors
:
Elias Afhmole armiger, & Regius Fe~
cialis de Windeforey vir prajlantij)imus & rei
antiquaries periti/Jwnis, accuratijjimum anti-^
quorum Numifmatum Laudentium Catalogum
in tria volumina diflributum concinnavit, &
Bibliothecce Bodleiance dono dedit.
Auguft. This month I went to Blyth
Hall, and returned the fame month.
September 2. The dreadful fire of Lon-
don began.
06tober 4. 1 Hor. 30 minutes poji
merid. fome of my books, carried to my
coufin Moyfe's, were returned to mycliam*
ber at the Temple.
u,
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es<^ 333
11. 1 Hor. 30 minutes poji merid. my
firft boatful of books, which were carried
to Mrs. Tredefcant's the 3d of September,
were brought back to the Temple.
18. 4 Poji merid. all the reft of my
things were brought thence to the Tem-
ple.
1667. May 21. I bought Mr. John
Bookers ftudy of books, and gave 140/.
for them.
July 16. I went to Warwickfhire.
24. I returned to London.
31. I went again towards Warwick-
fhire.
Auguft 21. I returned to Roe Barnes.
November 25. 1 took a leafe of the
Moggs in Litchfield from the Bailiffs, and
this day paid 20/. part of 40/. fine.
1668. January 1 1 . I paid to Mr. Row-
lins 20 1. the remaining part of my fine
for the Moggs at Litchfield.
April 1. 2 Hor. ante merid. the Lady
Mainwaring, my wife, died.
25. Mr. Jofeph Williamfon and Dr.
Thomas Smith (afterwards Bifhop of Car-
lifle) dined with me at my chamber in the
Temple.
June 9. 5 Hor. poji merid. the Lords
Commiffioners of the Treafury appointed
me to execute the Office of Accomptant
General in the Escife and Country Ac-
comptant.
334 The Life of
15. 5 Hor. poji merid. they appointed
me to execute the place of Country Ac-
comptant in the Excife.
Auguft 10. I went towards Blyth Hall.
26. I returned to London.
September 4. 7 Hor. 30 minutes ante
merid. I concluded with Mr. Laurence for
his houfe in Shire Lane. At 7 hori pojl
merid. he fealed his affignment to me.
16. Doftor Currer, the Chymical Phy-
fician, my moft entire friend, died.
Oftober 1. He was buried at St; Cle-*
ment Danes ; and Dr. William Floyd
preached his funeral fermon November 1
.
November 3. I married Mrs. Elizabeth
Dugdale, daughter to William Dugdale,
Efq. Norroy King of Arms, at Lincoln's
Inn Chapel. Dr. William Floyd married
us, and her father gave her. The wedding
was finifhed at 1 o hor. pojl merid*
December 3* Do&or William Floyd
married*
29. Juftihian Pagitt, Efq. died.
1669. January 2. Mr. Juftiniari Pagitt
was buried at St. Giles's in the fields,
April 15. Mr. Rofe, the King's Gar-
dener, and myfelf, went to Mrs. Tredef-
cant's> and thence to Captain Forfter's at
South Lambeth, where I firft was ac-
quainted with him.
17. Mr. Oldenburgh (Secretary to the
Royal Society) fent me a letter, that Count
Maga-
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Eso. 335
Magalotti would vifit me at my chamber,
from the Prince of Tufcany.
19. Count Magalotti and two other
gentlemen of the Prince of Tufcany 's
chief attendants, came to my chamber to
fee my library and coins.
27. I felt the firft touch of the gout,
in my great toe, on my left foot, and in
my left fore-finger.
June 5. I and my wife went to Herfham
to vifit Mr. Lilly.
14. We returned to London.
July 6. I went towards Oxford.
9. The poffeffion of the Theatre (built
by Dr. Shelden Archbifhop of Canterbury)
was taken by the Vice Chancellor.
I received the honour of being made a
Doctor of Phyfick at Oxford.
Auguft 11. I and my wife went again
to Mr. Lilly's.
22. Sir William Backhoufe of Swallow-
field died.
September 3. 1 returned to London from
Mr. Lilly's.
Mrs. Dorcas Pagitt, wife to Juflinian
Pagitt, Efq. was buried.
21. I went towards Swallowfield to
ferve at the funeral of Sir William Back-
houfe.
28. He was buried at Swallowfield.
29. I let a leafe of Homerich lands to
H. Aldrich forfeven years,
No-
336 The LIFE of
Novemb. 3. This evening Dr. Yates,
Principal of Brazen-Nofe College, pre-
fented me with a diploma from the uni-
verfity of Oxford, for my degree of Doc-
tor of Phyfick, between fix and feven at
night.
About the middle of Decerhber, my
friendfhip began to be renewed with Dr.
Wharton, which had been difcontinued
for many years* by reafon of his unhand-
fome and unfriendly dealing with me.
1670. March 14. I beftowed a grave
-
ftone on Mr* Booker formerly, and this
day paid for it : it had this infcription in
capital letters *
Ne oblivione contercretur uma
Johannis Bookeri Ajlrologi
qui fati cejjit
Vlto Idus Aprilis, Anno Chrijli Juliano I
MDCLXVII.
Hoc illi pofuit aniGris monumenturn*
Elias Afhmole
Armiger.
1 6. I was entertained by Monfieur Lion-
berg, the Swedifh Envoy.
31. I obtained the King's warrant to
my book of the Garter.
May 5. The Earl of Anglefea vifited
tile at my chamber in the Temple.
10.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es^. 337
io. I dined at Sir Charles Cotterel's
with the Danifh Envoy, and after dinner
they went to my chamber in the Temple;
where I fo fatisfied the Envoy touching
the King of Sweden's precedence in the
Order before his mailer's, that he there-
upon waved the further profecution of
that affair.
June 22. Captain Burgh, my old ac-
quaintance, died.
July 5. The Lord Hatton, my much
honoured friend, died this morning.
I fell ill of a furfeit ; but thanks be to
God, I recovered the next day.
9. I dined with the Swedilh. Envoy.
27. Sir Gilbert Talbot, Matter of the
Jewel Houfe, and Mr. Jofeph William-
ion, dined at my chamber in the Temple.
Auguft 19. Six Hor. poji merid. my
coufin Moyfe of Tottenham, died.
24. Myfelf and wife went to Captain
Wharton's, at Greenwich.
Sept. 25. Eleven Hor. 30 minutes ante
ttierid. I became acquainted with the
Count de Monroux, Envoy from the Duke
of Savoy.
Oclob. 8. I moved my Lord Arch-
bifhop of Canterbury for a licence for
Mr. Lilly, to pradlife phyfick ; which he
granted.
Nov. 18. I fell ill of the gout, in my
great toe on the right foot,
Z a*
$3§ The LIFE of
20. I bled with leeches, and was well
the next morning*
1671. Jan. 9. My fifter Dugdale died.
13. I became acquainted with Mr. Pe-
ter Arnold the Chymift.
April 4. My brother Dugdale married
to Mrs. Pigeon.
May 16. I let a leafe of my houfe irt
Litchfield, to Mr. Edmund Falkingham,
for 7 years.
July 20. I went towards Blyth-Hall
with my wife.
31. I came to Litchfield.
Aug. 10. I and my wife went to Litch-
field, where we were entertained by the
Bailiffs at a dinner, and a great banquet.
15. We wr
ent £0 the Earl of Denbigh
at Newnham.
18. Four Hor. pojl merid. I arrived at
London.
Sept* 21. I went again towards Blyth-
Hall.
Oftob. 5. I came to Litchfield, where
I met my brother Mainwaring.
16. I and my wife returned to London.
19. My brother Mainwaring came to
London.
Decemb. 7. My brother Mainwaring
took his oath as one of my deputies : fo
did Mr. Street.
1672. Jan. 24. I was entertained at
dinner by the Venetian Agent.
May 8.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esc*. 339
May 8. Two Hor. 40 minutes, pq/i
?nerid. I prefented my book of the Garter
to the King.
July 20. I and my wife went to Mr.
Lilly's, whereweftayedtillSeptember the 2d.
Aug. 20. My good friend Mr. Wale,
fent me Dr. Dee's original books and
papers.
Sept. 14. The Earl of Peterborough
having about June, by the Duke of York's
command, called at my chamber in the
Temple* for one of my books of the Garter,
to cany to the Duke, then at fea ; the
Duke received it with much pleafure, and
the Earl believed he had read it all over.
27, Mr. Philip Floyd's patent palled
the Great Seal for the reverfion of my
office of Comptroller of the Excife.
06tob. 12. Ten Hor. 30 minutes ante
tnerid. I fprained my right foot.
17. The Earl of Peterborough pre-
fented me to the Duke of York, who
told me he had read a great part of my
book ; that I had done a great deal of
honour to the Order of the Garter ; that
I had taken a great deal of pains therein
;
and deferved encouragement, 9 Hor. 20
minutes ante merid.
Decemb. 17. Being at the Treafury
chamber, the Lord Treafurer Clifford very
courteoufly invited me to his lodgings in.
the court.
Z Z 2Q,
34-0 The LIFE of .
20. I waited on him, and was received
with great kindnefs.
23. The Earl of Briftol gave great
commendations of my book; andfaid, 4
he
' thought the Knights of the Garter were
\ obliged to prefent me with fome con-
i fiderable gift, and that himfelf would
€
move it/
1673. Jan 11. This evening I fat with
the Lord Treafurer two hours.
27. Ten Hor. 40 minutes ante merid.
the Earl of Bedford gave his approbation,
with great commendation of my book of
the Garter.
Feb. 3. Ten Hor. 30 minutes ante merid.
I delivered my petition to the Earl of Ar-
lington, for the cuftom of paper, with a
defire of his opinion about it. He an-
fvvered, it was but a reafonable requeft,
and he would confer with the Lord Trea-
surer about it, before he moved the King
;
and that he would do me fervice.
13. Eight Hor. 20 minutes poji merid.
I moved the Lord Treafurer for my ar-
rears of my penfioii as Windfor Herald,
and to favour my petition for getting the
cuftom of fome paper. The firft he faid
Ihould be done ; and to the fecond, he
would be my friend : and fo he was.
March 13. My book of the Garter was
fent to Captain Bartie, to be prefented to
the King of Denmark.
X69
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq. 341
16, I grew indifpofed with a fulnefs ixjl
my ftomach ; but taking fome phyfick, I
grew well.
25. The Earl of Denbigh came to my
houfe to vifit me.
April 2. Seven Hot. poji merid. coming
from Windfor in a coach with Sir Ed-
ward Walker, the coach overturned, and
I grained my left wrift.
17. I delivered my book of the Garter
to Sir John Finch, to prefent it to the
Duke of Tufcany.
May 24. I received the Lord Trea-
furer's warrant for one hundred and fix
pounds, thirteen fhiliings, and four pence,
the arrears of my penfion.
June 18. I received my Privy-Seal for
four hundred pounds out of the cuftom
of paper, which the King was pleafed to
beftow upon me, for my work of the
Garter.
29. I was let blood.
July 4. The learned and ingenious Sir
Robert Murrey died.
Sept. 29. I renewed my leafe of Ho-
merich lands, from the vicars of Litch-
field.
Oftob. 4. I and my wife came from
Herfham to London, having fpent a good
part of the fummer with Mr. Lilly.
12. The Lady Forfter, Sir Humfrey
Forfters widow, died.
Z 3 Novemb,
342 The LIFE of
Novemb. 8. This morning Dr. Whar-
ton was found almoft dead in his bed of
an apoplexy, and palfy on his left fide,
12. He fent for me at midnight, and
becaufe fome differences had formerly fallen
out between us, he defired to be recon-
ciled to me : which he was.
15. Ten Hor. 15 minutes ante merid.
Dr. Wharton died, and was buried in
Bafinghall church in a vault.
Decemb. 3. Dr. Teme, the phyfician,
died this evening. He was buried at St.
Andrew's Underfhaft the 7th of January
4
following.
1674. Feb. 25. Nine Hor. 30 minutes
ante merid. I defired Mr. Hayes, the Earl
Marfhal's Secretary, to move his Lord,
to give me leave to relign my Herald s
place.
April 2. The Earl Marfhal came to fee
my chamber in the Temple.
13. He gave me a George in gold,
which his grandfather wore when he
went Embaffador into Germany.
24. My wife and I went to Mr. Lilly's,
where we flayed till the 8th of September
following.
May 29. About Five pofi merid. the
order was made in the Chapter Houfe at
Windfor, for recommending me to the
Knights of the Garter.
Z
June
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq.. 343
June 20. I dined with the Duke of
Lauderdale at Ham, whither he had in~
yited me, and treated me very kindly.
July 1 . Sir John Davis, fome time of
Panborne in Berkfhire, died.
20. I met with Mr. Thomas Henfhaw
upon his return from Denmark, having
brought me a gold chain, and that King's
medal thereat, from the faid King.
27. I firft fpake with the Prince Elec-
tor of Brandenburgh's Envoy.
Auguft 1. I lent Mr. Edward Hop-
kins four hundred pounds, upon a mort-
gage of his lands in Little Pipe near Litch-
field.
4. Sir William Swan, the King's Re-
fident at Hamburgh, gave me an account
of his fending my books of the Garter to
the Duke of Saxony, and Prince Ele6lor
of Brandenburgh, and gave me a letter
from the faid Prince.
Sept. 17. I waited on the King, and
{hewed him the gold chain the King of
Denmark fent me : he liked it well, and
gave me leave to wear it.
Oftober 2. Eleven Hor. 30 minutes
ante merid. I and my wr
ife firft entered my
houfe at South-Lambeth.
5. This night Mr. Tredefcant was in
danger of being robbed, but mod ftrange-
ly prevented.
23,
0
344 The LIFE of
28. I waited on the Earl Marfhal, to
gain his leave for difpofing of my Herald's
place, He told me I was a perfon of that
ability, that he was loath to leave me ; and
put off the difcourfe to a further time.
Novemb. 17. I received a cafe of ex-
cellent piftols, and a filver hilt for a
fword, fent me as a prefent, from the Earl
of Caftlemaine, from Liege.
26. Mrs. Tredefcant being willing to
deliver up the rarities to me, I carried
feveral of them to my houfe.
Decemb. 1, I began to remove the reft
of the rarities to my houfe at South-
Lambeth.
2. This night my affair about the en-
larging my control upon the counties,
was fettled.
18. Mr. Lilly fell fick, and was let
blood in the left foot, a little above the
ancle : new moon the day before, and the
fun eclipfed.
20. Mr, Lilly had a great pain in his
left leg, which lafted twenty four hours,
and put him into a great fever,
23. My wife went to fee him.
26. I went to vifit him alfo,
28. The humour being fixed in two
places upon the top of his left foot (one
being the place he was let blood in) and
now grown ripe, they were lanced by Mr.
Agar, an apothecary (and no lefs a good
furgeon)
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Escv. 345
furgeon) of Kingfton : after which he
began to be at more eafe, and the fever
abated
I was prefent at the operation.
1675. Jan. 6. I wore the chain of gold,
fent me from the King of Denmark, be-
fore the King, in his proceeding to the
chapel, to offer gold, frankincenfe, and
myrrh.
20. The Earl of Winchelfea, Sir Wil-
liam Swan, and Mr. Thynn, were en-
tertained at my chamber in the Temple.
29. This afternoon I obtained the Earl
Marfhal's leave to refign my Heralds
place.
Feb. 10. Colonel Gervais Hollis, a
Mafter of the Requefts, died.
2 1 . Two Hor. pojl merid. I fealed the
counterpart of Mr. Hopkins's mortgage
of Little Pipe in com. Stafford, to me for
four hundred pounds.
25. Mr. Dethick offered me three hun-
dred pounds, if I would refign my He-
rald's place to him.
March 1 . This night Mr. Sandford of-
fered me the like fum, if I would refign
it to him.
9. Colonel Gervais Holiis's body was
carried through London, towards Mans-
field in Nottinghamfhire, where he was
buried.
•24. Lord
346 The LIFE of
24. Lord Hatton and his fitters dined
with me.
26. Mr. Smith, of Moorfields, died;
he had an excellent good library of books.
April 17. My brother Dugdale having
agreed with me for my Herald's place,
this morning moved the Earl Marfhal
that he might fucceed me ; which he
granted.
The fame morning I agreed with my
carpenter for building the additional rooms
I made to my houfe at South-Lambeth.
27, This afternoon Sir William Swan
told me, the Prince Eleftor of Branden-
burgh had given order for a prefent to
me, and that it lay ready for me at Ham-
burgh.
May 1 . Ten Hor. 30 minutes ante merid.
I and my wife came to my houfe at South*.
Lambeth, to lie there.
5. Ten Hor. 20 minutes ante merid. I
laid the firft ftone of my new building
there.
20. This day Monfieur Swerene, the
Prince Eleftor of Brandenburgh's Envoy,
came to vifit me zX my chamber in the
Temple.
25. My wife, in getting up of her horfe
near Farnham Cattle, fell down, and
hurt the hinder part of her hand and left
fhoulder.
June 6,
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es^. 347
June 6. Mr. Richard Hodgkinfon (my
old friend, and fellow gentleman of the
Ordnance in the garrifon of Oxford) was
buried.
25. Six Hor. 30 minutes ante merid. the
foundation of St. Paul's Church in Lon-
don was laid.
27. Dr. Barlow (my old and worthy
friend) was confecrated Bifhop of Lincoln.
July 15. This morning a jury of fewers
fet out my brick wall made towards the
highway, at my houfe at South- Lambeth.
Zip Four Hor. pqft merid. I furrendered
my Herald's place to his Majefty in Chan-
cery, before Sir -Clerk, one of the
Mafters of that court.
Aug. 28. One Hor. 40 minutes pofi
merid. I and my wife came to dwell at
my houfe in South-Lambeth,
Oftob. 7. Monf. la Mere (lately fent
from the Prince of Orange to his Majefty)
gave me a vjfit at my chamber in the
Temple.
8. I firft became acquainted with Mon-
fieur Spanheim, the Prince Ele£tor Pala-
tine's Envoy to his Majefty; 9 Hor. 30
minutes ante merid. He was the Prince
Ele6lor Palatine's Plenipotentiary at Co-
logne ; and there Sir Jofeph Williarafon
delivered to him my book of the Garter,
to prefent to the faid Prince.
26. My
343 The LIFE of
26. My brother Dugdale was created
Windfor Herald.
27. Mr. Thomas Rofs (tutor to the
Duke of Monmouth) died.
29. Between nine and ten Hor. fojl
merid. my uncle Ralph Afhmole died.
Novemb. 2. I fell ill of a cold.
7. Great pain in my farther tooth, on
the left fide of my upper jaw, which con-
tinued three or four days.
16. Eleven Hor. ante merid. I began to
plant my garden walls with fruit-trees.
This day Robert Chaloner, Lancafter
Herald, died.
Decemb. 4. I firft became acquainted
with Mr. Butler, chaplain to the Duke of
Ormond, and an able aftrologian.
1676. Feb. 27. Sir Thomas Chicheley
and Sir Jonas Moore came to dine with
me.
March 10. I fell ill of the toothach,
and the fartheft tooth in the upper fide of
my left jaw was very loofe.
29. My teeth fell loofer, and put me
to fo great trouble, I could not chew my
meat for a week.
3 1 . My brother Harrifon of Litchfield,
died.
April 6. I was afflicted with the vertigo,
and drew out my tooh tha$ had fo greatly
troubled me.
7, The
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Escu 349
7. The officers of Arms feeming un-
willing to let me have the funeral-turn,
which was my due, I acquainted the Earl
Marfhal with it : and this day, Sir Tho-
mas St. George waiting on him, he told
him, he would have me have the benefit
of it. His Lordfhip afterwards told me,
that he faid to Sir Thomas, 1
That he
* efteemed me the befl- officer in the of-
* jfice ; and if he could have perfuaded me
* to have ftaid in the office, I fhould not
' have wanted the befl employment, and
* have been made the fore-horfe in ,
the
* team ; and that I had deferved greatly,
* in getting money for rebuilding the
* office/
Apr. 16. This evening the gout took
n^e in my left foot, and held me for a
fortnight.
Aug. 8. I fell ill of a loofenefs, and
had above twenty ftools.
Sept. 4. Mr. Ogilby died.
November 20. I fell ill of the gout in
my left toe : This fit held me a fortnight.
Decemb. 18. My old friend Major
Brooke, the ftationer, died.
22. He was buried.
1677. Feb. 6. My uncle Ralph Afli-
mole's widow died.
7. In the afternoon I took cold in my
head.
14. I took cold in my right ear.
19. Mr.
3£0 The LIFE of
19. Mr. Richard Edlin, one of my
clerks, died this night.
20. Sir Edward Walker, Garter, died
fuddenly*
21. 23, 25. I took pile macri which
did me much good.
21. Mr. Richard Edlin was buried in
St. Alhallow's Church-Yard.
22. The Bifhop of Salifbury wrote to
me, that he had moved the King to be-
flow Garter's place upon me. I wrote
back to excufe my accepting of it, with
defires to move no further on my behalf.
26. The Earl Marfhal fent his Secre-
tary, Mr. Hayes, to have my opinion,
whether Gai ter's place was in the King's
or his difpofe. I gave my opinion, that
it was in the King's difpofal.
Mar. 6. The Bifhop of Salifbury came
to my houfe, to acquaint me with the
King's command, that I fhould aflifl him
in making good the King's title to Gar-
ter's place.
28.7 Hor. ante merid. I laid the foun-
dation of my back buildings to my houfe
at South-Lambeth.
30. There was a hearing before fome
of the Lords of the Council and fome
Knights of the Garter, between the King
and Earl Marfhal, at which Garter's place
was adjudged to be folely in the King's
difpofal,
31. Mr.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^ 351
3 1 . Mr. Bartie earneftly prefied me to
accept of Garter's place, intimating my
Lord Treafurer thought me fitted for it
;
which I excufed : neverthelefs he gave me
an opportunity to fpeak with my Lord,
which when I had, I forebore faying any
thing of this matter to him.
Apr. 1. Mr. Bartie fet more earneftly
upon me to be Garter; but I abfolutely
refufed.
2. My father Dugdale was pitched upon
to be Garter, and the King gave his con-
lent : whereupon the Earl Marfhal fent
for him out of Warwicklhire by this
night's poft.
10. My father Dugdale came to town.
11. The Earl Marfhal told my father
Dugdale, that I had carried myfelf very
fairly in the matter between him and the
King, touching Garter's place.
May 10. 9 Hor. ante merid. The firft
foundation of the rebuilding of Cheapfide
was laid.
12. About noon I fprained my right
foot, near my ancle.
24. My father Dugdale was created
Garter, principal King at Arms.
25. He was Knighted.
June 1 . He took his oath in a chapter,
called to that purpofe.
7. My Lord Treafurer agreed to have my
comptrol continue upon the vouchers.
July 2.
352 The LIFE of
July 2. I fealed a leafe of my houfe
in Litchfield to Mr. Falkingham, for
eight years.
Another to Henry Aldrich of the lands
iii Homefich, for feven years.
Another to Mr. William Webb, of the
Moggs in Litchfield, for eleven years.
10. I made a feaft at my houfe in
South-Lambeth* in honour of my bene-
factors to my work of the Garter.
Aug. i . I received four hundred pounds,
being the mortgage-money I formerly lent
upon Mr. Hopkin's eftate, at Little Pipe
near Litchfield.
Sept. 10. i Hor* fojl mend. Mr. Rofe,
the King's gardener, died.
17. Count Walleftein, Envoy Extra-
ordinary from the Emperor, Marquis de
Efte Borganiainiers, Envoy Extraordinary
from the King of Spain, Monfieur Swerene,
Envoy Extraordinary from the Prince
Eleftor of Brandenburgh, and the Count
of Flamburgh, beftowed a vifit on me at
my houfe at South- Lambeth.
28. There was a fire in the Inner Tem-
ple.
Ocl. 4. Mr. Loggan began to draw my
pi£ture in black lead.
16. My Lord Bifnop of Oxford gave
me a vifit at Mr. Loggan's.
31. Myne Heere van Zeelin (Secretary
to the Prince of Orange) came to vifit me
at my chamber in the Temple, Nov.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq,.
353
Nov. 4. Mr. Rawlins, Town-clerk of
Litchfield, acquainted me, that Mr. Ri-
chard Dyott, Parliament- man for that
city, was likely to die, arid that the Bai-
liffs, &c. were willing to chufe me in his
room : but I anfwered, I had no incli-
nation to accept of that honour, and
therefore defired him to give my thanks to
all that were fo well affefted to me.
10. Myne Heere van Zeelin, and the
Dutch Embafladors, came to my houfe to
vifit me.
Dec. 10. Doctor Plot (a) came to me,
to requeft me to nominate him to be
Reader, at Oxford, of the philofophical
le&ure upon natural things. I told him
if the univerfity liked him, he ftiould have
my fuffrage.
19. zHor.pojl merid. Mrs. Ogilbydied.
This morning my tooth, next my fore-
tooth, in my upper jaw, was very loofe,
and I eafily pulled it out.
Having received feveral letters from
Litchfield, to requeft me to ftand for a
Parliament-man there: I at length con-
fented, provided it was not too late : and
upon attempting it by others for me,
found it was fo ; for I found the
magiftrates and friends not fo cordial to
me as I expected, and therefore drew off
and would not ftand.
(a) See Appendix.
A a 1678.
354 TttE LIFE of
j
1678: Feb. 9. One of my middle teeth,
in my lower jaw, vvas broke out while I
was at dinner.
Mar. 23. The gout took me in my
right toe.
Apr. 4. 1 1 Hor. 30 minutes mtte merid.
my wife told me, that Mrs! Tredefcant
was found drowned in her pond. She
was drowned the day before about noon,
as appeared by forne circumftance.
6. 8 Hor. poji merid. She was buried in
a vault in Lambeth Churchyard, where
her hufband and his fon John had been
formerly laid.
22. I removed the pictures from Mrs.
Tredefcant's houfe to mine.
May it. My Lord Bifhop of Oxford,
and Dr. Nicholas, Vice-Chancellor of Ox-
ford, gave me a vifit at my houfe, 7 Hor.
30 min. ante merid.
June 18. Mr. Lea and his wife's re-
leafe to me of the one hundred pounds I
was to pay after Mrs. Tredefcant's death,
bears date/
July 17. About eight of the clock this
morning I was ferved with a fubpcena out
of the Chancery, at Mr. Searles's fuit.
Aug* 5. The Earl of Peterborough
came to vifit me at my chamber in the
Temple, and to fee my collection of coins,
Sept. 28. I took my purging pills.
29. I bled with leeches.
j 679.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esc^ 355
1679, Jan. 26. 10 Hor. pojl merid. The
fire in the Temple began next room to
my chamber, and burned my library, &c.
Mar. 25. I entered upon the houfe and
ground adjoining to my houfe at South-
Lambeth, which Mr. Bartholmew let me
a leafe of.
31.9 Hor. 45 minutes ante merid. Mr.
Bartholmew fealed my leafe.
April I firft became acquainted with
the Lord Roberts
June 8. I went to Sir Napier, at
Great Linford in Buckinghamfhire, and
came thither next day S Hor. pojl merid.
14. I returned to London.
27. I vifited Monfieur Spanheim.
Aug. 15. My Lord Grace of Canter-
bury, (Dr. Sancroft) came to vifit me at
my houfe, and fpent a great part of the
day with me in my ftudy.
25. Sir Jonas Moore, Surveyor of the
Ordnance, and my old friend, died.
Sept. 2. Sir Jonas Moore was buried in
the Tower -Church.
About the end of Oftober I was much
troubled with the vertigo.
1680. Mar. 15. % pojl merid. I fell ill
of the gout in my left great toe.
20. It fell into my right great toe, and
this fit held me for five weeks.
Apr. 17. My wife fell ill of a rheu-
matifm.
A a 2 June
356 The LIFE of
June 28. The Countefs of Clarendon
came to vifit me and my wife.
July 26. The Archbifhop of Canter-
bury's filter and niece came to vifit my
wife.
Sept. 6. The Earl of Radnor, Lord Pre-
fident of the Council, with his Lady and
daughters, dined at my houfe.
15. 5 Hor. 30 minutes poft rrierid. Sir
Charles Cotterell prefented me to the
Prince Elector Palatine, in the Council-
chamber, whofe hand I killed, and had
much difcourfe with him about the Order
of the Garter, into which he was ready
to be elected.
16. 2 Hor. foft merid. I prefented the
faid Prince with one of my books of the
Garter ; which he courteoufly received ;
and now I had much difcourfe with him.
18. Sir Charles Cotterell told me this
morning, that one of the Prince Elector's
gentlemen came to him the day before >
to defire me to dine with him this day.
Hereupon I attended him accordingly, and
he placed me next himfelf, on his left
hand, and received me with great refpect
;
and when he rofe, took me afide, and told
me he had heard much of my worth and
efteem, and defired to have a correfpon-
dence with me, after he returned into his
country.
Sept. 24.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq. 357
Sept. 24. This day between eleven and
twelve, my efteemed good friend Mr.
John Staniefby of Clemcnt's-Inn died. lie
fell lick at Northampton the 17th inftant,
between eleven and twelve of the clock,
as he was coming towards London from
his native country, Derbyfhire. He was
buried the 26th of September at night, in
a vault, in St. Clement Danes church,
under the feats belonging to the gentlemen
of Clement's-Inn. He gave me this le-
gacy by his will, viz. 'ITEM, I give
f to my honoured friend Elias Afhmole
i
Efq. and his wife, each of them a ring
* of twenty (hillings value, and likewife
' what books in my ftudy he fhall pleafe
' to make choice of (many of them being
* his noble gift to me after I had loft
' many of my own, by the fire at my
* chamber)/
The Prince Eleftor Palatine, at his
departure, on September 18, put a me-
dal of gold into Sir Charles Cotterell s
hands, which had his father's pifture on
the one fide, and an efcutcheon of his
arms on the other, fupported by a lion 5
and bade him to deliver it to me, and to
allure me, that when he came home, he
would alfo fend me one of his own.
27. This day, Sir Charles Cotterel fent
me the medal.
A a 3 November
3j8 The LIFE of
November 4. Mr. Bartholomew fealed
me a new leafe of my houfe, &c. in South-
Lambeth.
16. I received from the hands of Sir
Robert Southwell, lately returned from
Berlin, a gold chain with a medal, from
the Eleftor of Brandenburgh. Itiscom-
pofed of ninety links of philagreen links
in great knobs, moft curious work. Up-
on the one fide is the Ele&or's effigv, on
the other, the view of Stralllund, and
made upon the rendition of that city into
his hands. It weighs twenty two ounces.
29. I waited on the King, and ac-
quainted him with the honour the Elec-
tor had done me, and (hewed him the
chain. He liked it well, and commended
the workmanfhip.
1681. Feb. 9. Mr. William Chiffinch,
Clofet-keeper to the King, dined at my
houfe, and then told me that his nephew
Thomas Chiffinch (fon to Thomas Chif-
finch, my moft worthy friend) died the
week before,
March 15. Between nine and ten ante
merid. Mr. Butler, the minifter and aftro-
logian, brought me acquainted with Sir
Edward Deering, brother to Sir Edward
Deering, now one of the Lords Commif-
fioners of the Treafury,
April 5. Having been very lame in the
hollow of my right foot moft part of the
2 winter
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es<^ 359
winter (occafioncd, as I fuppofe, by ap-
plying pultices to my gout, which relaxed
my tendons) this evening my pains were
fo encreafed I could fcarce go, and put
me into fo great a heat, that I became
very feveriih, and my urine pricked me
fore as it came from me.
6. I took my ufual fweat, which made
me well, and ftrengthened my tendons,
fo that the next day I went to London,
and walked much up and down the ftreets,
without any pain : at night I became hot,
and ftept ill.
9. 11 Hor. 45 minutes poft merid. I fell
into a cold fit of an ague, which, with
the hot fit, held me feven hours.
11. I took, early in the morning, a
good dofe of Elixir, and hung three fpiders
about my neck, and they drove my ague
away -Deo gvatias.
14. Dr. Gunning, Bifhop of Ely, came
this afternoon to vifit me at my houfe,
and ftaid in my ftudy till night.
May 19. My worthy friend and my
neighbour, both at the Temple and in
the country, Thomas Siderfin Efq; died,
near Epfom, about 4 Hor. pojl merid,
24. Mr. Siderfin was buried in Lam-
beth Church.
25. At the end of dinner Mr. Lilly's
left fide of his mouth was drawn afide,
but recovered again.
Aa j 30. This
360 The LIFE of
30. This evening the dead palfy feized
on the left fide of my old friend Mr.
William Lilly, aftrologer.
June 2. Mr. Lilly took a vomit: at
night he took his bed.
4. I went to vifit him, but found him
hope.
9. 3 Hor. ante merid. Mr. Lilly died.
10. 8 Hor. poji merid. He was buried in
the chancel of Walton Church.
12. I bought Mr. Lilly's library of books
of his widow for fifty pounds.
12. I fold one of my chambers at the
Temple to Mr. Holt, for one hun-
dred and thirty eight pounds : and in this,
evening he was admitted.
17. This day my god-daughter the
only child of my neighbour Thomas Si-
derfin Efq; died.
July 1. Mr. Sawbridge the ftationer,
an old friend of Mr. Lilly's and mine,
died.
6. Mr. Sawbridge was buried in the
middle aide of St. Bridget Church in Fleet-
ftreet.
This day my wife went towards Blyth-
Hall, with Sir William Dugdale, her fa-
ther, to vifit her mother.
Aug. 12. Sir George Wharton died at
En^eld between one and two in the morn-
ing.
j 8. My wife returned from Blyth-Hall.
beyond
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es^, 36:
25. Sir George Wharton was buried in
the Tower.
September 19. My wife mifcarried, hav*
ing gone about three months.
O&ober 1. I took purging phyfick.
2. I took my fweat for the prevention of
the gout.
4. About 8 Hor. ante merid. I fell ficl:
of the cholick, which held me with fharp
pains, efpeciaily on my right fide, for fci
hours y and then I was prefently eafed, br
applying bay-falt and bran, heated in a
frying-pan -> but before nothing elfe could
eafe me.
24. Mr. Thomas Flatman came to my
houfe to vifit me.
November 1. Mrs. Lilly came to my
houfe, and ftayed a week.
4. About 9 Hor. ante merid. I fealed an
aflignment of my judgment of 1 200 /. for-
merly given me by Sir Robert Thomas,
and about an hour after, received from
Sir Robert Clayton 800/. a compofition
s greed on with Sir Robert Thomas, out
of which I gave him 70 /.
. December 18. (a) About 4. po/l merid.
my dear mother-in-law, the Lady Dug-
dale, died.
2 1 . She was huried in a fepulchre made
in the chancel of Shuftock church, by
(a) Vide iaft page of Sir William Dugda'e's Life
—
London, 17 14, 8vo.
Sir
-62 The LIFE of
Sir William Dugdale, for himfelf and
ler.
1682. Mar. 10. About 5 Hor. pojl merid.
1 received a fummons, to appear at a
lodge to be held the next day at Mafons-
Hall in London.
1 1 . Accordingly I went, and about
noon was admitted into the fellowfliip
of Free-Mafons, by Sir William Wilfon
Knight, Captain Richard Borthwick, Mr.
William Wodman, Mr. William Grey,
Mr, Samuel Taylour, and Mr. William
Wife.
I was the fenior fellow among them
(it being thirty five years fince I was ad-
mitted) there was prefent befides myfelf
the fellows afternamed, Mr. Thomas
Wife, Mafter of the Mafons-company this
prefent year Mr. Thomas Shorthofe, Mr.
Thomas Shadbolt, Waidsfford, Efq;
Mr. Nicholas Young, Mr. John Short-
hofe, Mr. William Hamon, Mr. John
Thompfon, and Mr. William Stanton.
We all dined at the Half- Moon-Tavern
in Cheapfide, at a noble dinner prepared
at the charge of the new-accepted Mafons.
April 1 . My wife fell ill of a rheuma-
tifm : it began in her left ancle, then into
her left knee and right toe.
18. Sir Charles Cotterell carried me to
the Morocco Embafiador,
Alcade,
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq^. 363
Alcade, Abdelloe, and Bomonzore came
to my houfe, and dined with me.
May 17. George Smaldridge was elefled
out of Weftminfler- School to go to Chrift
Church in Oxford.
20. The. Marquis of Worcefter and
Earl of Aylefbury, with their eldefl fons,
gave me a vifit at my houfe this after-
noon. ]
22. This night, fcratching the right fide
of my buttocks, above the fundament,
thence proceeded a violent {harp humour.
25. I applied pultices thereunto (and
now was not able to fit or lie upon my
bed) it was made of white bread crums,
oil of rofes and rofe-leaves.
28. The pultices having well drawn
the humour out, I applied Unguentum Nu~
tritwn to it.
June 4. Being hard bound in my body
I was five hours before I could go to ftool,
and fuffered much torment.
9. I purged with pills.
13. I went abroad again, thanks be to
God".
17. Bomonzore dined with me, and
gave me feveral excellent receipts.
July 5. The Morocco EmbafTador dined
at my houfe,
1 3 , The Aftrolpger's feaft was reftored
by Mr. Moxon.
364 The LIFE of
16. The Lord Lanfdown, and Sir Wil-
liam Haward gave me a kind vifit at my
houfe.
20. The Morocco EmbafTador made
ready to go away, but the Alcade flint
out of his lodgings, and hindered his
journey.
21. The Alcade was taken.
22. This morning I gave the Morocco
EmbafTador a large magnifying glafs. In
the afternoon the Alcade returned to the
EmbafTador's lodgings.
23. About 3 in the morning the Em-
bafTador went away.
Auguft 16. I went towards Oxford, to
fee the building prepared to receive my
rarities, where I arrived about 7 of the
clock in the evening.
17. Between 8 and 9. I firft faw the
faid building. I was invited by the Vice-
Chancellor, and dined with him at Queen's
College.
22. 6 Hor. 30. minutes poji merid. I ar-
rived back at my houfe.
Oftober 23. My Lord Chancellor Finch
fent for me to cure him of his rheuma-
tifm. I dined there, but would not un-
dertake the cure.
1683. January 23. I took a great cold,
going by water, and kept my chamber
three days.
29.
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esc^ 365
29. The Aftrolagers feaft was held at
the Three Cranes in Chancery-Lane : Sir
Edward Deering and the Town-clerk of
London were ftewards.
February 2. My pifture (after fent to
Oxford) came home 3 Hor. poji merid. I
acquainted Mr. Woo! rich, in part, with
the fecret of raifing flowers from a virgin-
earth.
15. I began to put up my rarities in
cafes to fend to Oxford.
March 7. I took purging pills, which
wrought very well.
10. The gout fell into my left great toe
this morning.
14. The laft load of my rarities were
fent to the barge, and this afternoon I re-
lapfed into the gout.
2 1 . The gout fell into my right great
toe.
April 8. Major Huntingdon came to
my houfe, to vifit me.
10. I took my pills, and purged very
well.
1 1 . The pains in my feet returned.
24. Mr. Anthony Bowyer, and his lady,
came to vifit me and my wife.
25. I went firft abroad, after fo long
confinement, by reafon of my gout.
26. Dr. Smallwood, Dean of Litch-»
field, died.
Auguft
366 The LIFE of
Auguft 6. The furveyors of the high-
ways began to raife the caufey at Horfhead
Still.
9. They finifhed their work, all at my
charge.
September 5. I took pills,
6. I took a fweat,
7. I took leeches : all wrought very
well.
17. Monfieur Job Ludolph came to
vifit me.
23. I firft faw Dr. Lifter, at my Lord
Archbifhop of Canterbury's at dinner.
24. The Prince Elector of the Rhine's
fecretary dined with me. As alfo a noble-
man of that country, a fon of a patrician
of Nurembergh, and Dr. Lifter.
26. A ftitch took me at the fetting on of
my left hip.
28. I was very much troubled with it.
Oftober 8. Monfieur Lodolph, and his
fon, dined with me.
10. I gave Mr. Heyfeg a book of the^
Garter : my wife gave him three gold
buckles.
16. The Commiffioners of the Excife
dined with me.
30. I took leave of Monfieur Ludolph
and his fon, who were returning into Ger-
many.
November, Monfieur Ludolph went
from London. .
De-
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es<^. 36;
December. 7. A boil began under my
chin.
26. 6 Hor. 30 minutes ante merid. I
had a long fit of a vertigo.
1684. February 4. Mr. Jean Schiel-
deras, the Bifhop of Bergen's fon, and
Mr. Godfreed Rofs, a Pruffian, vifited
me.
March 5. 11 Hor. ante merid. a green
ftaff was fent me by the Steward of St.
Thomas's Hofpital, with a fignification
that I was chofen one of the Governors,
April 6. Major Huntingdon dined with
me.
8. There was an inftallation of George
Prince of Denmark. ;
21. Major Huntingdon died : and this
day Mr. Thomas Henfhaw, Mr. Rogers,
Dr. More, and Dr. Bernard dined at my
houfe.
30. Major Huntingdon was buried at
St. Botolph Alderfgate church.
May 5. 2 Hor. poji merid. I laid the
foundation of my new ftable.
14. I took a fweat.
19. Sir Thomas Walcot came to vifit
me.
June 27. I bruifed my left great toe.
July 18. 10 Hor. 15 minutes ante m-
rid. my two coach-horfes were brought to
me.
22. My coach was brought to me.
*3<
568 The LIFE of
23. I went towards Oxford.
28. I returned home.
Auguft 4. Several French gentlemen,
and Johannes Serenius Chodowislkey, a
Polander, came to vifit me,
6. I rubbed the fkin near my rump,
whereupon it began to be very fore.
8. I purged.
9. I took leeches*
10. I purged again.'
12. I applied a plaifter to it.
15. Mr. Agur applied a balfant*
17. The fore began to break.
18. Dr. Plott, fent from Oxford to vifit
me, came to me.
19. I fell into a loofenefs, which con-
tinued for two days.
24. Mr. Agur lanced the fore.
26. Being hard bound, I was two hours
before I could go to ftool, and then with
exceeding great trouble.
31. I was lanced again, to prevent a
fiftula.
September 10. By this time the fore,
near my fundament, was healed.
October 20. Sir Thomas Duppa, and
Mr Matthews dined with me.
November 19. Dr. Plott prefented me
with his book de Origine Fontiwn, which
he had dedicated to me.
24. My teeth began to be loofe.
1
De-
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Eso^, 369
Decembers. Mr. Haak brought Mr.
Bowert of Upton in Pembrokelhire, to
vifit me.
1 9. Dr. Chamberlain propofed to me to
bring Dr. Lifter to my wife, that he might
undertake her.
22. They both came to my houfe, and
t)r. Lifter did undertake her.
1685. January 24. I was much trou-
bled with my teeth, in my upper jaw,
on my left fide, which, hy fits, continued .
for a week ; and then I held pills in my
mouth, made of burned allom, pepper,
and tobacco, which drew much rheum
from me, and fo I was eafed.
February 6. King Charles II. my gra-
cious mafter, died:.
14. About 9 pofl merid. lie was buried^
13. I took a violent cold, which held
me till the <;th of next month.
26. I took my purging pills
;
27. I took my fweat, both worked very
well.
March 2. 5 Hor. 1 5 minutes poji merid*
I received an obliging letter, from the
Bailiffs, Juftices, &c. of Litchfield ; fo
alfo from the Dean, inviting me to ftand
to be one of their BurgefTes for Parlia-
ment. I fent them word that I wr
ould
ftand :
^vi^'w^i),
3. Whereupon they, fet about getting
votes for me, and I found the citizens
B b very
370 The LIFE of
very affe&onate and hearty. About %
fortnight after my Lord Dartmouth told
me, the King would take it kindly from
me, if I would give way to Mr. Lewfon.
Upon this I applied myfelf to my Lord
Treafurer, and defired to know of him
the King's pleafure, by whom I found it
was the King's defire, and then I imme-
diately wrote down, to acquaint my
friends that I would refign ; but they
would not believe my letter, which occa-
fioned me to go to the King, and let him
know fo much ; who told me he did not
know I flood, when he gave Mr. Lewfon
encouragement to go down, for if hehad>
he would not have done it. I told him 1
was all obedience, which he took very
kindly. I then wrote down again, to af-
fure them I would fit down, and fo Mr.
Lewfon, with the affiftance of my votes,
carried it at the day of election.
April i . 6 Hor. pvjl merid. I firft be-
came acquainted with Mr. Negos, fecre-
tary to the Duke of Norfolk.
27. Mr. of Nurembergh, and a
French gentleman, which Mr. Labadie
brought along with him, dined with me.
May 1 . Judge Walcot, and Mr. Cook,
the Prothonotary dined with me.
4. Monfieur Spanheim, Envoy etraor-
dinary from the Elector of Brandenburgh,
and his Lady, and Monfieur Beilbr his
agent
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq, 37 t
agent here, with Sir Charles Cotterel, his
Lady, and fon, dined with me.
5. The Duke of Norfolk invited me to
dine with him the next day; which I did,
and was well received.
13. I took my purging pills,
14. And my fweat.
29. I vifited Dr. Smith, Bifhopof Car-
lifle, who was of my ancient acquaintance
at Oxford.
3 1 . This night again a pain (in my
fleep) took me in my middle toe of my
right foot, which removed to my ancle,
and after three days went away.
June 2. A pain took the uppermoft
tooth but one, on the right fide of my
uppermoft jaw.
4. My faid tooth funk fo low I could
not chew.
9. A boil rofe in the left fide of my
throat.
17. This evening I had a grievous fit of
the toothach.
July 9. The Countefs of Clarendon,
Biihop of St. Afaph, Mr. Henfhaw, Mr-
Evelyn, Dr. Tenifon, and Mr. Frafier
fupped at my houfe.
1 1 . The Earl of Radnor fell fick about
noon.
17. 1 Hor. pojl merid. The Earl of
Radnor died.
B b 2 20,
37- The LIFE of
20. Dr. Ridgley (my old acquaintance)
gave me a vifit.
21. I went to Windfor, to the inftalla-
tion of the Duke of Norfolk, Earl of
Peterborough, and Lord Treafurer.
25. The Earl of Radnor's body was
carried into Cornwall.
Auguft 4. I and my wife went to Mr.
Napier's at BrookhilL
5. We went to Mr. Hutchinfon's at
Delroe.
8. We returned home.
10. A boil began to appear in my right
groin.
13. This night my boil broke.
15. Another appeared a little higher,
but it died.
24. I went to Windfor, to the Inftalla-
tion of the Earl of Feverfham.
September 5. Paffing upon the Thames,
I took a great cold.
9. I took a purge.
10. I took a fweat.
October 13. I took my fweat.
28. The Earl of Peterborough fhewed
me his rare collection of gems and an-
cient rings.
30.I became acquainted with Mr. Gary,
who came lately from Berlin. He told me
his Electoral Highnefs of Brandenburgh
did often fpeak, with a great deal of
honour, of me, and defigned to have
my
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq. 373
my book of the Garter tranflated into
Dutch.
November 10. This morning I had
fome dtfcourfe with Mr. Gerard, about
purchafmg Mr. Plommer's farm.
16. Mr. Dean of Windfor, and Dr.
Chamberlain the Civilian, brought Sir.
John Faulconer of Scotland, to dine with
me. I found him a very ingenious gentle-
men, well read in his own country anti-
quities and coins.
December 3. I firft fat upon the Com-
miffion of Sewers, it being opened
this morning, and myfelf named there-
in ; but nothing further was done at this
fitting.
14. Sir John Faulconer dined with me,'
and I gave him divers of my Englifli
coins.
16. I waited on the Earl of Clarendon,
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, as far as St.
i\1bans in his journey thither. The jolt-
ing of the coach, which drove very hard,
raifed a fwelling in my left breech,
1686. January 9, Mr. Cook, my
neighbour at South Lambeth, having late-,
ly let up a pale along his garden, and en-
croached upon the church- way about two
foot, I undertook to complain of it; and
this day Mr. Cooper, his landlord, and
myfelf, upon a debate on the matter,
agreed (by his confent) to fet it back a
B b 3 1 foot
374 The LIFE or
foot and an half, which was done accord-
ingly.
20. The Commiffioners of Sewers met,
and I (with fome others of the Commif-
fioners) took my oath.
February i. Sir John Faulconer, a
Scotch gentleman, died.
4. He was buried this night in the
church of St. Margaret Wtftminfter.
19. This morning I dreamed, that be-
ing at my old houfe in Shire-Lane, the
fide of the garret feemed to totter and fall,
infomuch that I thought the houfe itfelf
would prefently fall down.
This afternoon, about one of the
clock my wife's father, Sir William Dug-
dale, died.
14. I moved the Duke of Norfolk, on
my brother Dugdale's behalf, that he
would move the King, that he might fuc-
ceed him, which he promifed to do ; (but
I found him more inclinable to prefer Sir
Thomas St. George). In his difcourfe he
told me, no man was fitter for the place
than myfelf, if I would accept of it ; hut
I made the fame excufe to him 3s I did
to his father, after the death of Sir Ed-
ward Walker,
"
19. The Duke of Norfolk propofed to
me, to give my brother Dugdale the place
of Norroy, and the next day gave him
afibrance of it.
i March
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Es^. 375
March 26. This night I piffed fo much,
that I feared a diabetes, notwithstanding
I had kept myfelf very temperate all the
fpring time,
27.. This morriing I grew ill and very
hot, and was troubled with a fharpnefs of
urine. I tqgk fyrup of white lilies in
pofTet-drink, and the next day an emul-
fion of the four cooling feeds, (this kept
me temperate) wi£h water of violets and
wood-bine, to wafti my mouth and giv-
ing myfelf reft and eafe, I thank God, I
recovered in a few days.
April 5. I took my fweat.
May 6. My wife tcjok Dr. Nagel's
tincture.
17. I firft dined at St. Thomas's Hof-
pital, the general £our{: keirjg held there
this day.
20, 11 flor, 15 minutes ante merid. I
firft fat upon the comr^iffiqn for charitable
ufes.
23. Dr. Plqt prefented me witl} Na-
tural Hiftory of Staffordshire.
26. Mr, Hummer fealed his part of the
conveyance of the farm to, me, and his
wife acknowledged a fine before the Chief
Juftice of the Common Pleas.
July 10. This morning early the fang-
tooth in the right fide of my upper jaw
fell out,
Bb 4 (j,
376 The LIFE of
i 3 . I began to repair my barn at South
Lambeth for Goodman Ingram.
25. I took my fweat.
Auguft 2. I and my wife went to Brock-
hill to Mr. Napier's.
7. We went to Delroe to Mr. KutchinT
fori's.
9. We returned to South Lambeth.
13. The gout fell into my left great
toe : I applied leeches.
28. I applied black fnails to my right
foot, they being bruifed ; but they blifter-
ed and poifoned the top of my foot, and
after feveral breakings out, it was healed
towards the middle of October.
September 8. I took my ufual fweat.
23. 5 Hor. 30 minutes poji trierid. I
agreed upon conditions with Goodman In-
gram, to make him a leafe of the farm
I bought of Mr. Plummer, except the
oat-field.
29. Sir Philip Floyd (whp had the re-
verfion of my office in the Excife) died.
October 7. I waited upon the King,
upon his return to town from Windfor,
who was pleafed to receive me with much
Jdndnefs.
12. I took a great cold in my neck,
which held me fix days.
25. 6 Hor. 45 pojt merid, I fealed the
Jeafe of John Ingram.
26,
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esq., 377
26. The running gout feized on my
wife's right inftep. It continued fhifting
into her arms and knees with great tor-
ment till after Eafter, and then fhe began
to fet her feet on the ground, yet was not
able to go abroad till towards Midfummer.
29. I received a letter from Sir Henry
Chauncey, Trpafurer of the Temple, to
invite me to the bench, but I wrote him
an excufe ; and next day gave reafons for
my refufal.
December 7. The Commiflloners of
Excife moved the Lord Treafurer, fhew-
ing the neceffity of my having another
clerk, and obtained SroL per An. falary for
him.
23. 10. Hor. 30 minutes ante merid.
I received my order from the Lord Trea-
furer, for a new clerk, v/ith 80/. per An.
falary.
23. This day my nephew Dugdale (Sir
John Dugdale's fon) was married.
1687. January 5. The Earl of Ro-
chefter furrendered his ftafF.
6. About 6 pojl merid. the Commiffion
for the Lord Commiflloners was opened
and read.
8. This morning the Commiflloners of
Excife, and myfelf, waited on the new
Lords Commiflloners of the Treafury.
13-
378 The LIFE of
13. The gout fell into my right hand,
which difabled me from ufing my pen for
above a quarter of a year.
j 6. I took my fweat.
17, 18, 19. I was much troubled with
the wind cholick.
24. I applied leeches to my right hand,
27. The fwelling of my hand abated.
28. There were two tides this morn-
ing.
February 8. This afternoon the gout
fwelled my hand again, and the night
pafled with great torment.
4. This night my hand did moft griev*
ouily pain me.
March 3. This afternoon I and my wife
were both fuddenly ftruck with a cold
and hoarfenefs.
I felt the effects of this hoarfenefs, in
the back part of my throat, for a long
time after.
22. 2 Hor. 30 minutes pojl merid. An
iflue was made in my left arm.
April 16. My wife took Mr. Bigg's
vomit, which wrought very well.
19. She took puhisfanffus, in the after^.
noon fhe took cold.
N. B. That both were too ftrong phy-
fick for her.
2 1 . My wife fell very ill, and into, a
great weaknefs.
26. I purged with my ufual pills.
27.
ELIAS ASHMOLE> Es<^ 379
27. I took my ufual fweat.
Towards the end of this month my
wife began to mend, but not fully reco-
ver till a fortnight after.
July 16. This morning I received a
Parcel of books from J. W. Irnhoff of
Nurembergh, among which was his
cellentium Familiarurn in Gallia Genealogia.
Auguft 31. Sir John Chardin, and Mr.
Bever, came to South Lambeth, to vifit
me.
September 14. 10 Hor. 40 minutes
ante merid. J fat for a fecond pi£ture to Mr.
Ryley.
Oftober 5. 11 Hor. 7 minutes ante me-
rid. the Earl Marfhal's Court firft fat in
the Painted Chamber at Weftminfter.
7. Dr. Plot came to me at my office,
and told me, that the Earl Marfhal had
chofen him Regifter of the Court.
8. 10 Hor. ante merid. I went firft to
the Earl Marflial's Cpurt, and when his
Lordfhip rofe, he invited nie to dine with
him ; which I did.
9. I took my ufual fweat. (a)
[a) Here exuls Mr. Afhmole's M. S.
WHAT
1
The LIFE op
WHAT remains further, I fhall
give you in the words of Mr.
John Aubrey, F. R. S. who in his de-
figned Survey of the County of Surrey,
(repofited in the Afhmolean Mufeum at
Oxford) towards the beginning, has thefe
words •
" And now I am come as a
?"*
mourner to perform my laft office at
the grave of my worthy friend Elias
" Afhmole, Efq. whofe body lieth buried
in the South aide (of the Church of
"South Lambeth) at the Eaft end, on the
" North fide of it, under a black marble,
" with this infcription.
Hie Jacet inclytus ilk & eruditifjimus
Elias Afhmole LcichfeJdenfis Armiger,
inter alia in Republica Munera,
T'ributi in cervicias contra rotulaior,
Fcecialis autem Windforienfis titulo
per annos plurimos dignatusy
Qui poft duo connuhia in Uxorem duxii tertiam
Elizabetham Gulielmi D'ugdale
Militisy Garteri Principalis Regis Armorum
filiam
;
Mortem obiit 18 Mati, 1692, anno cetatis 7b*
Sed durante Mufieo Afimoleanoy Oxon.
nunquam trioriturus.
Near it, is an achievement fet up for
the fame perfon, whereon is the following
coat
ELIAS ASHMOLE, Esc^ 381
coat of arms, viz. Quarterly, Sable and
Or, the firft quarter on a Fleur de lis of
the fecond : Alhmole, impaling Dug-
dale, viz. Argent, a crofs malines Gules,
and a Torteaux, with this Motto
—
Ex una
omnia.
Over the entrance to the Mufaeum,
fronting the ftreet is the following infcrip-
tion in capital letters :
Mufcznm Aflmioleanumy Schola Naturalis
Hiftoria, Officina Chymica.
Over the door of Mr. Afhmole's Li-
brary, at the top of the ftairs, is the
following infcription, in letters of gold,
viz.
Libri Imprejji & Manitfcripti e donis Cla-
riff. Virorum D. Elise Afhmole & Martini
Lifter quibus non paucos addidit Vir indufirias
nec irifime de Re Antiquarid Promeritus D.
Johannes Aubrey de Eafton Peirce apud
Wiltonienfes Arm. & Soc. Reg. Socius.
AN
r 3*2 )
A N
APPENDIX
Original Letters fent to and from
Mr. Afhmole.
A letter of thanks from the corporation:
of Litchfield, upon the receipt of a
filver bowl, prefented to them by
Mr. Afhmole.
For the truly honoured Elias Afhmole,
Efq. at his chamber in the Middle
Temple, over Serjeant Maynard's cham-
ber. In his abfence, to be left with
the Butler or Porter of the Middle
Temple, London.
Honoured Sir,
day of this inftant January (a day
ever to be rubrical amongft our city re-
mem-
O F
Thurfday, being the 17th
APPENDIX. 383
membrances) we received your Tina Ar-
gentea, your munificent filver bowl,
cloathed, in its delivery, with all thofe
rich circumftances of advantage, that could
poffibly either enable the gift to befpeak
the goodnefs and prudence of the giver,
or invite the faireft acceptation in the
receiver. For if we confider the perfon
from whom, it is the gift of an Elias,
a herald, not only proclaiming, but ac-
tually contributing good things to our
city ; and that by the hands of a Zacha-
rias, a faithful mefTenger, who with the
gift, did emphatically communicate the
fenfe and good affeftion of the giver.
And if we confider the time it was pre-
fented, it was the day of our Epiphany
feffioris of the peace for this city, where
our Bailiffs, High-Steward, Sheriff, Grand
Jury, and the reft of the body politick of
this ancient and loyal corporation, toge-
ther with other perfons of quality both
of the clergy and laity were convened to-
gether, and fo became prefent at this great
offering : As if fome propitious ftar ari-
fing in the Eaft, had (at this time) gone
before our Magus, fleering its courfe to
this our city of Litchfield (the Sarepta of
our Elias) and flood over the new-erected
pyramids of our cathedral (where as yet a
ftar appears) darting its benign influence
upon this poor and loyal city, inviting the
Magi
384 A P P E N D I X/
Magi from afar> to offer fome tribute to
it : A city that hath nothing to glory in,
but its ancient and modern loyalty to God
and Caefar, evidenced by her ancient
bearing in the city efcutheon (three Knights
martyred) as ancient as the days of
Dioclefian, and her name fignifying a
field of blood then fpilt ; to which may
be well added her modern and unparalleled
loyalty to that bleffed faint (now in hea-
ven) King Charles the martyr ; univer-.
fally witneffed by thofe honourable marks,
eraces, and wounds of loyalty, fhe yet
bears upon her perfons, temples, ftreets,
and walls ; (trophies of honour) Effici-
ently blazing to the world the true heraldry
of her ancient arms : nor have you only
given us this great cratera (upon which'
you have wifely impreft our city arms),
to folace the beft of the city, after their
time of fuffering; but, like one of thofe
true Magi, that offered to Chrift in his
pooreft condition, you have, largely of-
fered to the repair of his. church, our
ruined cathedral, which, by the unwearied
labour, prudence, piety, and charity of
our good (a) Bifhop, a fecond Cedda, and
the charity of yourfelf, and others, hap-
pily depofited in his hands, is (almoft to
a miracle) fo well and fo foon reftored
(*) Dr. Racket,
again.
APPENDIX* 385
again. But you have likewife annually
and liberally offered, relieved, and re-
frefhed Chrift in his members, the poor
of our city. And as if you intended
pioufly to engrofs and cover all our ne-
ceffities, under that warm and nourilhing
mantle of Elias, we have received inti-
mation of your promifes of greater good
intended this great city. Now, Sir, give
us leave to conclude (having been already
too tedious) by informing you that, ac-
cording to your defire, (upon the firft
receipt of your Poculum Charitatis, at
the fign of the George for England) we
filled it with catholick wine, and devoted
it a fober health to our moft gracious
King, which being of fo large a conti-
nent, paft the hands of thirty to pledge
;
nor did we forget yourfelf in the next
place, being our great Maecenas ; affur-
ing you that (God willing) we fhall take
courfe that this great Tina Argentea
fhall, with our city-mace, and other
publick enfigns of dignity and authority,
be carefully tranfmitted, by indenture,
from Bailiffs to Bailiffs, in a continual
fucceffion, fo long as this ancient and
loyal corporation through the favour of
Princes (which we hope, we fhall never
forfeit) fhall have a charter to give it
life and being. For which end your many
other multiplied favours to this poor
C c city,
386 APPENDIX,
city, we, the prefent Bailiffs of this city*
do, in the name (and by the defire) of out
whole company, return you moft hearty
thanks, fubfcribirig our'felves, what we
truly are,
Sir,
Your obliged faithful friends,
Li
jan.
fi
f666r
6
To ferve you,
JOHN BARNES,
HEN. BAKER.
A Preface to the Catalogue of Arch-
bifhop Laud's Medals, drawn up
by Mr. Afhmole, and preferved
in the publick Library at Oxford,
and referred to in Page 332 of
this Work.
Leftori Benevolo, Wp*^ ^*#/aote.
CUM Oxoniam (Britannici lumen
orbis principium, grandeque decus)
commentandi gratia annos aliquot ante,
me contulifTem, Collegio Reginenfi Prae-
pofiti (tunc temporis autem in inclyta hac
Univerfitate,ProtoBibliothecariiBodleiani)
Doftoris
APPENDIX. 387
Do&oris Barlow poftulatio, imo & ex-
poftulatio me non mediocriter afficere.
Querebatur enim eximiae doftrinae Vir,
inter Academicos, (temporibus difficillimis
illis quidem, & tyrannide Cromwelliana
invalefcente, duriffimis) paucos turn fu-
pereiTet plurimis, artis & naturae dotibus
fufpiciendis, Oftracifmo etiamnum pulfis,
aut (nec vanus timor) propediem pellen-
dis, qui ad rei Aritiquariae ftudium & vete^-
rum Numifmatum cognitionem, quibus
tamen aftatim illic abundent Archiva,
(paupertate & nova tyrannide preffi) ad-
jecifient animum. Supra laudati Doftoris,
inqUam, rogatu, conqueftuque, hoc ultro
mihimet (utbrevem illorum defcriptionem
exhiberem) penfum impofui : Turn ad
novitios & in rei Nummariae fcientia pa-
rum exercitatos, melius informandos, turn
ad eorum Genium excitandum, qui ad
tantum, tarn proficuum, tarn dignum, tarn
honorificum, tarn denique neceflarium
erudito viro ftudium afpirare niterentur.
Hoc igitur fic mihi propofitum fponte-
que fufceptum (arduum illud quidem, &
laboriofae plenum opus aleae penfum) laetus
aggredior, indies faftione Cromwelliana,
non fine damno publico ingravefcente,. &
paulo poft Britannise T«A/»iri*f«r & facras
Regise Majeftatis (aufpicato & quafi poft-
limiriio) reditum, <fvv$iZ ad finem perduxi.
Sed cum hujus exfcriptum, manu pro-
C c 2 pria
388 APPENDIX.
pria cuperem exarare, ut ingenue fatear,
mihi fait * ^ *% ante hunc diem illud ab-
folvere, cum negotiorum (quae me con-
tinue) circumvallat) turba, modicum mihi
fubinde fpatium, ad aliquid per intervalla
& quafi furtim nonnunquam ex eo tran-
fcribendum permiferit. Verum antequam
huic Operi confiderando te Leftor accin-
gas, de nonnullis, & ad promptiorem ejus
diligentiam, & ad faciliorem ejufdem ufum,
te monitum cupio.
Atque ut aggrediar, totum opus de an-
tiquis Numifmatis quibus Oxonise ditef-
cunt Archiva, in tria dividitur Volumina.
Primum eft Confularium Nummorum,
aliquofque Illuftrium Romse Familiarum,
reliqua duo Imperatoria Numifmata con-
tinent.
Hue accedit, quod Monetam, confu-
lum Alphabetico locarim ordine potius,
quam illam in annorum confulatus cu-
jufque feriem redigerim : Multi etenim
Confulares Nummi, nequaquam ab iis,
quibus affimilantur, excufi funt. Sed ab
A
illis Triumviris Monetalibus Augufti reg-
no, qui vellent ifta ratione, vel quod for-
fait ab ipfis ducerent originem, utprsecla-
ras illorum aftiones aliquot exciperet, ac-
tueretur seternitas. Quod autem attinet
ad Imperiales Nummos (qui hie incipiunt
a Julio Caefare, atque cam Heraclio de-
finuut) hi ad eos perfecle referuntur an-
nos,
APPENDIX. 389
nos, in quibus conflati, procufique fuere
;
cum relatione tamen ad tempus vel prae-
cedens, vel fubfequens Incarnationem
Chrifti Salvatoris noftri, quod characteri-
bus iftis expreffi, A. C. hoc eft, ante In-
carnationem Chrifti, & J. C. id eft, ab
Incarnatione Chrifti. Qui charafteres
notantur in capite cujuflibet paginae, pau-
cis exceptis, qui fufficiens ad hoc, ut ad
manifeftam fui temporis cognitionem de-
ducere me queant, lumen defiderare viden-
tur. Atque iftos quidem fub imperatoris
cujufque regni finem, Anno ante eofdem
in margine nullo defignato, collocare,
quam eofdem, caeteros inter intrudere cer-
ta fine ratione, fatius elegi. Idemque
circa Imperatrices omnes, candemque ob
rationem, a me prseftitum eft.
Praeterea, ut ex quo genere metalli,
quodlibet ex diftis Numifmatis cufum eft,
conftare poffit j metalla per has fequentes
diftinxi notas AV. enim denotat aurum,
AR. indicat argentum, IE, denique fig-
nifkat JEs.
Porro cum JEnei Nummi diverfse mag-
nitudinis exiftant ; ad triplicem prasfertim
(qua dignofcantur) juxta numericas figu-
ras (1.) (2.) & (3.) chara&eribus illorum
prasfixas (exceptis parvulis valdeque mi-
nutis aliquot, qui peculiariter pro talibus
exhibentur) ad triplicem, inquam, prasci-
que magnitudinem, revocari poffunt.
C c 3 Adde
390 APPENDIX.
Adde fuperioribus, quod ubi quempiam %
argenteum Nummum, formam habentem
fecundae magnitudinis aereorum invenio,
quod ut duxtaxat ab ordinario diftingua-
tur denario, figuram illi (2.) foleam ad-
jungere.
Hanc, hoc gemino cum voto, praefa-
tiunculam claudere mihi eft animus
D. O. M. enixe deprecatus, turn ut gene-
roforum hac in parte Benefaftorum nu-
merum adaugeat : Turn ut eos qui prifca
Numifmata celeberrimum hoc in /Erarium
conferunt, novis, quibus fuam fublevent
inopiam, Numifmatis, nijnquam egere
patiatur.
Pene omiferam quemlibet poft annum,
hie a me de induftria rili&um efle fpa-
tium, ut quid e novo diflum ad Thefau-
rum, antiqui ferentur Nummi, ad hunc
quoque Catalogum, pari (quo fuperiores)
modo, referri valeant.
Scriptum in meo Me-
dio Templi Mur
f<eo, decimo Ca-
lendos Junius,
Anno Jul. 1666.
E. ESHMOLE.
A copy
APPENDIX. 391
A copy of a letter from Doftor
Barlow to Mr. Aflimole, on his
prefent of his books, defcribing
Archbifhop gaud's cabinet of
medals,
For my honoured Friend Ellas Afhmole,
Efq. at his chamber in the Middle
Temple, thefe \ London.
My dear Friend,
IT is a good while fmee I received
your excellent prefent to our Uni-
verfity-Library, and, 'ere this, told you
fo ; and returned our many and hearty
thanks, had I not been fuddenly and un-
expectedly called away to Worcefter,
whence I am now returned. At the
vifitation of Bodley's Library (when the
Vice - Chancellor and all the Curators
were met) I prefented your books to the
Vice- Chancellor, and the reft, in your
name, as a teftimony of your kindnefs
and love to learning and pur Univerfity ; as
alfo of your ability to enrich Bodley's Li-
brary with your own works. Apyman who
has a mind to it, and money, may give
us good books of other mens making, but
very fevy of their own ;
€
pauci quos aquus
C c 4 *
ainavit
392 APPENDIX.
• amavit Jupiter.
1
Some more generous
and ingenuous fouls, a Selden, a Dugdale,
or an Aftimole may do this, none elfe.
The Vice-Chancellor and Curators were
exceeding well fatisfied with, and very
thankful for, your great charity and muni-
ficence to the publick. Care is taken,
that your name and gift be recorded in our
regifter, (a) to your deferved honour,
and the incouragement of others, by
your good example, if not to an equal,
yet to a like liberality. And fure I am,
it will be an honour to you, and a com-
fort to your friends, when they fhall find
in our regifter, that you have been fo
great a benefaftor to Bodley's Library. My
love and refpefts to yourfelf and my honeft
friend Mr. Dugdale. God Almighty blefs
you both, And,
Sir,
Your afFe&ionate friend.
Queen's College,
Oxon. Decemb.
38, 166$.
T. BARLOW,
(?) P. 41.
For
APPENDIX. 393
For Elias Afhmole, Efq. at his
Houfe in Lambeth.
Sir,
THE bearer hereof will need no re-
commendation from me, when you
{hall underftand, that it is Doftor Plott,
the learned author of the Natural Hiftory
of Oxfordlhire. It is upon the reputation
of your own worth, as well as your mag-
nificent gift intended to the Univerfity,
that he has the ambition to be better
known to you. They are (I hear) defign-
ing to create a philofophical leflure upon
natural things ; and their inclination to
pitch upon this knowing gentleman for
that purpofe (whofe talent and merits are
fo eminent) I am fure, cannot mifs of
your concurrent fuffrage. I am only forry,
that the affair, which carries me this
morning out of town, deprives me of fo
defired an opportunity of kiffing your
hand at Lambeth y who am, for many-
great obligations,
Sir,
Your moft humble
And obedient fervant,
Whitehall, 7
Dec. 1677.
I. EVELYN.
For
394 APPENDIX,
For the worfhipftil and learned
Elias Afhmole, Efq. at his
houfe in South Lambeth, near
London.
Moft worthy and learned Sir y
BEING informed by my friend Mr,
Gadbury, that there were feverat
paflages in my hiftory, which did fomc
way reflect on your great worth and learn-
ing, and alio intimate me to be guilty of
grofs rudenefs and heat, I found it my
duty to make this recantation ; and fa
let you know that whatever in that kind
may occur, I utterly repent and difown
and agi both heartily forry and afhamed,
that any way I lhould prove fo unhappily
ofFenfive to fo good and learned, fo in-
duftrious and renowned a gentleman,
whofe books I am not worthy to bear
after him. And, Sir, if it will pleafe
you to let me fee a copy of the paflageSa
as you have collefted them, (which on
occafion I promife to return) with your
confutations and reafons annexed, I do
folemnly proteft, that I will make a pub-
lick recantation, or otherwife as you fhall
think fit : and alfo, if ever King Edward
fees another imprefiion, I will alter thofe
paflages
APPENDIX. 395
paflages as far as truth and equity fhall ac-
quire, ftill protefting m verbo Sacerdotis,
that I never had any but honourable and
refpedtful thoughts of you and Sir Wil-
liam Dugdale, (Dii ! quanto nomina) and
what I did, proceeded from a defire of
finding out the truth, however my frailty
might betray me to an error. Sir, tfte
honour of a line, efpecially with an inti-
mation pf your goqd will, will be highly
acceptable to the real honourer of your
learning and goodnefs.
Emanuel College, Camb.
Ott. 15, 1688.
J. BARNES.
My humble duty to his Grace at Lam-
beth : and pray, Sir, have me recommend-
ed to my good mafter Do&or Goad and
Mr. Gadbury, &c.
For
396 APPENDIX.
For my worthy friend M. Joftnia
Barnes, at Emanuel College in
Cambridge,
Sir,
MY prefent weak indifpofition has
took me off from too much re-
fenting thofe refle&ions you have made on
me in your book, * and moulded in me
more peaceable thoughts, than to be dif-
turbed at what you have done. Your
letter makes me think there was no ill
meaning in what you did, and perhaps
nothing more than an inadvertent and
overhafty humour, which the civility of
a penny-poft letter would have cleared
and prevented. I need not trouble myfelf,
nor you, with giving you an account of
thofe paffages that concern me: they are
eafily found out, for they carry my name
along with them. All I expeft from you
is, that your acknowledgments to others
(as you have occafion) be what you have
now made to me, and (if ever an oppor-
* The Hiftory of King Edward the III, Folio,
wherein Mr. Barnes reflected on Mr. Afhmole's Order
of the Garter, in a very grofs manner.
tunity
APPENDIX. 397
tunity be offered) to reprint your Hiftory,
then to re&ify your copy.
Sir,
I am,
Your very humble fervant
,
oaob. 23,
1688.
E. ASHMOLE,
A copy of a letter from the Chap-
ter of the Church of Litchfield
to Mr. Afhmole, communicated
from the Regifters of that ca-
thedral.
Honoured Sir,
WHatever intereft this city and
church have in your birth and
education, hath already redounded, in fo
much honour thereby, and in your con-
tinual bounty, to both, that we have
not the confidence to back, with that to-
pick, this our petition for your free gift
towards finifhing the ring of ten bells,
inftead of our former fix bad and ufelefs
ones,
398 A P P E N D I X.
ones : nor* in truth, have we any other
arguments, but your charity and our
neceffity ; of the former, you have given
lis good proof, as we acknowledge with all
thankfulnefs : and of the latter, we have
too much, through the misfortunes of the
work. The deceitfulnefs of the ground
firft making our honeft bellfoiinder lofa
his cafting the four biggeft, to the damage
of 30/. and now his error in overfizing
the eight bells he hath caft, fo far that
they have fwallowed up all the metal for
the ten ; and that requires 80/. more to
be added to our poor fund for the two
other bells, proportionable to that big-
nefs. But yet an error fo much on the
better hand, that would make extream-
ly for the advantage and glory of the
Cathedral (the bignefs of fuch a ring far
more befitting the place ; and thefe eight
being judged fo very good, that all are
loth to have them broken, and caft into
lefs) if poffibly that additional fum could
be raifed. To this purpofe 'Squire Diot,
Mr. Walmifley the Subchantor, and
other Vicars and ringers are moft induf-
trioufly undertaking a new colleftion, and
we and feveral others are willing anew
to contribute ; and if you will pleafe to
put to the helping hand of your piety and
munificence, you will add fignally to thofe
inftances thereof already in our publick
cata-
APPENDIX. 399
Catalogue of benefa&ors, and will highly
oblige both thofe zealous undertakers, and
€fpecially,
Sir,
Your thankful humble fervants,
Litchfield,
Oft. 15,
1688.
L. ADDISON.
H. GRESWOLD.
T. BROWNE.
J. HUTCHINSON.
C. COMYN.
FINIS.
Books printed for T. Davie s, Book-
feller to the Royal Academy.
I. The Works of Mr. Jonathan
Richardfon, on Painting, a new Edition*
Price 6s.
II. Fables of Mr. John Gay, with an
Italian Tranflation by Gian Francifco
Giorgetti. Price 6s.
III. Hiftory of Churches in England,
both Cathedral and Rural, with their
Furniture and Appendages, by Thomas
Staveley Efq. Second Edition. Price 6 s.
IV. Romifh Horfeleech ; or, an im-
partial Account of the intolerable Charge
of Popery to this Nation. By the fame
Author. Price 4s.
